894.404 Social Matters., Japan, Religion. Church., February 13, 1932 - July 12, 1939 (File 1111)
ID: 894.404-1111   Pages: 64   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.404-social-matters-japan-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
UNION CHRISTIAN COLLEGE OF KOREA
LANNON MOCUNE.D.D., LL. D.. PRENDENT
RECEIVED
GAR 10 1932
DIVISION OF
Division of
MAR
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Hon. Herbert Clarkioove
President of the Uniteu  States of America
MAR 11 1932
RECEIVED
9 1932
Washington, D.C.
Departemant of Statke
Dear President Hooveny
Beny. to thy Presiden
A prosperous business man of Kei jo, Chosen (Seoul, Korea)
Mr. . Hirayama, invested considerable personal finds in the
production of e movie depicting persecution of Christians in
Japen at the time of Hideoshi when the miesionary work started
5
by the Catholic Church begen to assume proportions worthy of
note. The film hes hud wide cireul: tion in the J penese Empire
894.404/7
and hes produccd cxcellent results in broadenin the attitude
of mind tovard the present tion of christicnity.
Mr. Hirayane suils fro: Kobe, Japar the sixteenth of this
month for San Francicce. It i  is purrose to mcke a talki
out of this cineme productien, "The Twefty Six Martyrs of Japan."
He will go at once to Los ngeler. Later he will present a
personal letter of introdietion fren me,  curben copy of which.
I am enclos ing in this letter. I hope that you will give him
an eudience and encourage him in his venture.
I will deeply appreciate your inrormins me of Mr. Hirayuma's
ILED
61932
interview.
Respcctfully yours,
SroSohe

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.93)
UNION CHINSTIAN COLLEGE OP KORBA
Cepy
hine, D.0., U...
Dear Presidemt Heever:-
It gives m simeere pleesure to introduse Mr. K. Hirayams
of Keijo, Chesem. He has been my warm friend for sevemteem
yeers. Mr. Hirayam, a simeere loyal Christian business mn,
has been ambitious to show that Christianity in Japan hms
prodmeed those who have been "faithrul unto death." Mr.
Hirayam has invested his personal funds in the produstion
of a fila, "The Twenty Six Martyrs of Japan", which film
has ereated wide spread interest throughout the Japenese
Empire. Mr. Hirayam first secured the sanetion of the
Imperial Household and the other governmemt ofrieials before
he mdertook the sereeming of this most interesting bit of
history that had so mueh to do with the re-mking of Japan.
As in the West, Christianity went through a terrible siege
of perseeusiom so in Japan history records mxy who were
mrtyred beeause of their faith.
The film depiets with historieel accuraey the seenes
emmoted in those early days whem Christianity mde its begin-
ming in Japen. I hope that you will give generous eomsideration
to this mselfish vanture of Mr. Hirayame's sinee he is metiv-
ated: purely with a purpese ef shesing that the Japmse have
repeated the histery er the Westera mtiens in its attitude
towerd Chriatianity.
Mest eurdially yowrs.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
March 18 1959.
John I. Davis, Esquire,
American Consul General,
Seoul, Chosen.
sir:
I transmit herewith copy of a letter with enolesure
whioh the President has received from George Shammon
MoGune, D.D., LL.D., President of the Union Christian
College of Korea, Pyengyang, Kores, rolative to the coming
visit to America of Mr. M. Hirayama for the purpose of
894.404/7
producing a moving picture of alleged perseoutiom of
Christians in Japan during early missionary work in that
country.
It is desired that you suitably acknowl dge on behalf
of the President the receipt of Dr. MoCune's letter with
enclosure informing him that an audience with the Presi-
dent oan only be obtained through the request from the
applicent's diplomatio representative in Washington.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Harvey H. Bundy
Enclosure:
Letter from Dr. MoCune,
with enclosure.
894.404/7
F.£
DP:CLO:JBW
2 x0
3/16/32
m.m.10.
UR
MAR 17. 1932.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.404/
SEE...894.00.P.R./62
FOR ...Daapatch....62.
FROM .... Japan
(Grow
...) DATED Jabruary..&..l93S..
8
TO
NAME
8
REGARDING:
Commission working under the Home Ministry
for three years trying to decide whether
Shrine Shinto is a religion has reported
that it bas been unable to reach a unani-
mous decision and will discontinue to
work for the time being.
b8

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
A eammission whien has been westking under the Eeme
Ministry for three years trying toe deeide whether rime
Shinte is a religiem has reported that it has beem umable
to reach a unanimous desision and will siseontimue its
work for the time being. The Commission which was ap-
pointed in 19ze ineludes distinguished Smimto sehelars and
high govermmemt effieisls. It was sharged with submitting
a conelusion as to whether Shrine Shinte conssitutes a re-
ligion. The subject is one to whieh a great deal of im-
pertance attaches. For instanee, the Ministry of Edueatiom
now forees students to go to eertain shrines to pay their
respoots to soldiers killed in battle, but if it should be
decided that Shrine Shinto is & religion the students could
refuse to attend these funetions, sirce freedom of religiows
belief is guaranteed by the Constitution. On the other hand
should Shrine Shinto not be eonsidered & religion certain
other
* Embassy's despatol No. : 48 of January 11, 1938.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
150.9469 /73
FOR ....Despatoh t
894.404
FROMTokohama
(BoyO) DATEDNov.5.1934.
1+φ1
NAME
1-1187
19
REGARDING:
Tenrikyo Religion.
Clippings from THE JAPAN ADVERTISER and THE JAPAN TIMES
& MaIL of Sunday, November 4.1934,containing information re-
garding the- enclosed. (COPY ATTACHED)

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.95)
QUADRUPLICATE
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Yokohama, Jepan, November 5, 1934.
jub jeot:
Tonrikyo.
The Honorable
The Jeoretary of tate
Nashington
31r:
I have the honor to refer to the .epartment's
Instruotion to the merican onsul t obe dateu
vetober 3, 1933, and to enclose herew1th clippings
FrOm THE JA AN ADVSRTIJH AnD THL JA AN TIMES & MAIL
of Junday, Novomber 4, 19 4, containin, informstion
regarding the religion. It mey be seen from the
acoounts that even though the olaims of six million
adherents mey be exaggerated there is undoubtedly
considereble interest in Tenrikyo. It 1s also
interostine to note that the seot claims to have
boen founded about l00 years ago.
Respeetfully yours,
Riohard F. Boyce,
Amerioan Consul.
Enelosures:
NO. 1. FrOm THE JAPAN ADVERTIJER,
1ssue of Nov. 4, 1934.
No. 2.
PrOM THE JAPAN TIMES,
1ssue of Nov. 4, 1934.
811.11
A true copy of
RFB/ho
the signed oriy-
inal. ra

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
From THE JAPAN ADVERTISER 1ssue of
November 4, 1934.
The curing  sicknes has always
TENRIKYO SECT CLAIMS
been a part of religious faith in Japan.
SIX MILLION DEVOTEES
It is said that Buddhism gained its
cupied by rows and rows of le
foothold at first. chiefly because its
on bamboo poles. The space pocup
magic was believed greater than that
by these ranks of poles must have
Tamabaichi Festival Brings Hun-
of the native deities. Certainly the
becn nearly an acre. Each lantern
dreds of Thousands to Shrine
purchase of charms against ill health
is one of the chief busineses draw-
rary "church" of the sect, the
ing crowds to shrines and temples to-
By LORAINE E KUCK
day. It is not surprising. therefore,
vering the nation in their
Spocial to The Jepam Advertiser
to find the element of faith-healing in
One of the most interesting events
a new religion. The foundress of
Tenrikyo taught that by getting rid of
with a purple banner. These
in the whole cycle of religious cele-
every stain of the soul and restoring
is granted on attaining a membe
brations in Japan was held last week,
thereby its original purity, happiness
would follow, illness be conquere
October 26. when the Tenrikyo sect
and at last the soul would be merged
held its autumn grand festival at its
headquarters in Tamabaichi, a few
with the divine spirit. It is to be
ers which Tenrikyo now has.
miles beyond Nara. At this place has
suspected however. that a good many
The crowds wens into the temple
of the followers belleve the divinity.
been built an immense temple which
was completed this year. and the oc-
casion took on added importance for
through his own faith, or scientifically
acting independently, achieves the
cures. and not the patent himself
and knelt on the mats, clapping their
the "mound." Tenrikyo insteed of
hands and praying in the direction of
"sect" of Shinto and up to a certain
this reason.
Tenrikyo is usually described as a
gestibility.
stated. through his own mental sug-
The foundress taught also that at a
suggestive, to one who has lived in
using a rosary to aid in its prayers,
uses a sort of hand motion, slightly
point it follows Shinto beliefs and
spot near her home, the divinity
Hawaii, of the hand movements of
procedures. But it goes far beyond
would some day come dow: to earth
hula dancer. As performed by the
them in promulgating a set of be-
liefs, doctrines and a moral code.
and consummate the transformation of
the world affecting a new "age of the
and interesting evidently marking the
Japanese women. they were sraceful
from Buddhism and even from Chri-
There latter show strong influences
altar of the great temple whose com-
gods." This spot is now under the
them could be seen making these
rhythm of their prayers. Groups of
tianity. Scholars declare that Tenri-
kyo and other similar sects which
pletion was celegrated last week. It
movements in unison.
have come into being of recent years.
is, of course, the holiest spot on earth
Grand Ceremonial
are really independent, indigenous re-
to believers in the faith.
The grand ceremonial before the
ligious entities which have sprung
The new temple is an impressive
shrine consisted of two parts, the first
building. Although technically it is
into existence in response of the
a more or less orthodox Shinto cere-
needs of the people. Tenrikyo now
a Shinto shrine, it is built in the fa-
mottel completed with ancient dan-
claims to have six million followers.
shion of a vast Buddhist temple. A
most of them being from the lower
great tiled roof, carvings on the
perely Tenrikyo. but this too, was
classes of the country. The tremen-
gables. tremendous supporting pillars
made up of music and dancing. To-
dous growth of this religion and the
and a large floor space covered with
ward the end of her life, the found-
others like it, are phases of the re-
mats. mark the similarity. One wing
ress wrote down her beliefs in poems
ligious revival which is now sweep-
of the temple has been completed and
of 31 syllables and there make up the
ing over Japan.
in use for some years and its un-
creed of the religion. In the cere-
painted wood has weathered to a rich
monial, they are sung, to an accom-
Woman Founds Seet
brown. But in the new part the wood
paniment of music from old instru-
During the grand festival last week
work is still white and satiny.
gents, and dancers perform to this
it is estimated that between two and
Description of Temple
usic at the same time.
three hundred thousand people visit-
ed Tambaichi. This is a little village
differentiates it from either the usual
The portion of the building that
These dancers wear ordinary formal
imono, hakama and haori, not priest-
plain. Near this place the foundress
set out in the middle of the Nara
Shinto Shrine of Buddhist temple is
ach hand a fan on which is the red
y or courtly robes. They carry tu
the altar. In the center of the floor.
of the sect lived. She was a peasant
marked off by railings so that no on
trele of the sun. Such fans are very
was born in 1798 and died in 1887. In
woman named Miki Nakayama who
space. This is called the "mound"
can approach near, is a square well
been adopted from them. With these
old in type, the national flag having
some ways her life shows a remark-
and is the place where the divinity
fans the dancers follow the music and
able parallel with that of Mrs. Eddy.
will descend to inaugurate the age of
words of the accompaniment, with
her contemporary. Both began their
founder of Christian Science who was
the gods. From the ground below
form at one time, although the num-
slow steps, in union. About ten per-
religious teachings at about the age
the tops of four pieces of bamboo
ber may be less. The dance is ne
of  and both taught that sickness is
stick up. Draped from one to the
like the ancient "kagma" as usumlly
due to evil thoughts which can be
other of these is a rice straw rope, in
danced at shrines. but is more mo-
the way that usually marks off any
cured by faith. Both foundresses fa-
dern, more susgestive of the steps and
ced great struggles during the latter
spot as holy. Whatever else is below
movementa of a geisha, althouch it la
half of their lives and both finally
cannot be seen by casual visitors.
not, of course, a regular geleha dance.
triumphed in old age, having estab-
During the day of the festival the
single street of Tambaichi was filled
whed a religion which is cantinuing
solidly with two streams of humanity,
to grow and gain new followers every
moving from the station to the temple
and back again. Standing in the cen-
ter at intervals, to direct traffic and
answer questions were students from
the training school. These wore black
gowns, somewhat like those of a
Buddhist prie:t. and on their heads
were small black caps, suggestive of
a Scotsman's bonnet, but with an
extra fold of material sticking up be-
hind. Somewhat similar caps were
worn by court nobles in the Nare
period. These same sowns and hats
with white, line embroldery.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2.
From THE JAPaN TIMES issue of
November 4, 1934.
The New Headquarters of The Tenrikyo
special trouble to be present at the
New Headquarters House
ceremony in honor of the completion
of the edifices of the headquarters
of the Tenrikyo, for which we are
Tenrikyo Sect Of Shintoism
sincerely grateful. This work has
been accomplished under protective
guidance of our god, by power of
faith of our fellow believers, and
with the support of the general pub-
The headquarters of the Tenrikyo,
the regular trains, 47 extra trains
1c.
the most predominant sect of Shinto-
packed with visitors.
I take this occasion to soliclt the
Isnt in Japan, at Tambaichi, Nara
There were observed the ceremo-
assistance of the  neral public in
prefecture were in gala attire for the
nies to transfer the spirit of the
our work for the sake of the State,
two succeeding days commencing
foundress from the old building to
society, and mankind as a wholo,
from October 24, when the newly
the new edifice of the sanetuary on
larticularly for the cause of world
built edifices of the Shinden or san-
the evening of October 24, starting
peace.
ctuary and the Reihalden or chapel
shortly after six o'clock. The cere-
The present worshipping hall con-
were dedicated to the spirit of the
monies continued until midnight. The
sists of the sacred abode for the
foundress, Miki Nakayama at inm-
capacious precincts of the headquar-
deity in the niddle, the old and new
pressive and solemn erenionies.
ters were filled by the devotees to
worshipp:ng places on the northern
The edifices, which are regarded
such an extent that there could be
and southern s'de, and the "Kanro-
by Tenrikyo believers us their ment-
not found even a single foot of
dai" which forms the central place
al symbol, were established at Jiba,
vacant space to stand on.
of worship. The present establish-
which, according to the explanation
On October 25. there took place
ment marks a step nearer to the wish
of the officials of the religion, is the
the rites to report the spirit of tho
of our guardian god who declared
sacred place of the origin of all hu-
foundress on the completion of the
himself wedded to the cause of wel-
man beings, with donations con-
new editices of the Tenrikyo home.
fare of "shiho-shimen" (literally
tributed by six million devotees scat-
The rites commenced before seven
four dircctions and four phases).
tered all over the country. There
c'clock, lasting until early in the
The name of Kanrodai is derived
were also built the Kyosoden or
afternoon.
from the teachings of the foundress
home of the foundress and the
Goyo.
The ceremonies of October 24 and
of our religion as represented by the
sacred song" Mikagura-no-Uta" and
The construction work of these
25 were conducted by Mr. Masayoshl
by the foundress' own written record
edifices was started in June, 1931
Nakayama, the Kwancho or chief
called "Ofude-saki". The Kanrodal
and completed thls fall. These bulld-
abbot of the Tenrikyo and the grand-
means a foundation upon which peo..
ings are built of hinoki wood and
son of the foundress. There wero
ple can enjoy "kanro" (nector) sent
cover a total area of 1575 tsubo. The
present more than 11,000 representa-
from Heaven.
architectural style of the Shinden.
tives of the Tenrikyo churehes ail
The establishment of Kanrodai
its kind. is particularily unusual,
which is claimed to be the biggest of
for there is a square skylight at the
above the floor.
tuary and precisely straight beiow the
sky-light, the Kanrodai, which is
center of the ceiling. about 24 feet
There is in the heart of the sanc-
and several officials of the head-
The Kwaneho delivered an address
which was responded to by the mes-
sage from the Education Minister,
over the country. Mrs. Nakayama
quarters ineluding a few ladies de-
dicated dances to the foundress to
the accompaniment of koto masic.
monument in the center of creation
earnestly
of mankind.
gurdian
and this is significant not only from
means ithe establishment of a
this historical standpoint but in the
sense that in doing so. people can
endeavored to establish.
This monument our
had much and
irtcrpreted by the Tenrikyo priests
Gevernor Masasuke Kodama, of Nara
enjoy the bliss and grace of our
as the stand to recelve what is
prefecture and Mr. Issaku Kanzaki,
high guardian deity.
called "medicino of longevity" af-
forded by Heaven to human heings,
and which is the sacred treasure of
sent at the ceremonies on the second
day at the sanctuary were: -Hide-
Kwancho of the Shindo-lonkyoku.
Among niore than 200 guests pre-
the foundress in miniature in the
14th year of the same era, a regular
The Kanrodai was first made by
Kanrodai at the sanctuary. the de-
the religion. Centering around the
maro Kikuzawa, chief of the Religion
Bureau of the Education Minsitry.
one was established in part, though
it was seized by the Government
dication ceremonies took place for
the governor of Nara prefecture,
authorities the following year.
the two days.
Manabu Kuji. chief of the Education
Now that we have been able to
The entire town of Yamao seemed
Department of Nara prefecture, Dr.
establish this important edifice,
to be in a state of unusual activity
Masaharu Anezaki. professor of the
though not perfect. we are very
as the result of the flood of devotces
Tokyo Iniperial University and Chief
grateful, and the fact is of deep
who came there from all parts of the
Abbot Sadatane Saiki, of the Hosso
signiticance thnt it has been
country, even as far as Manchuri.
Chosen and Karafuto to pay their
tect of Buddhisnt.
estallished just at this time of world
crisis.
respects to the spirit of th, fotnd-
The address made by the Kwancho
With this as the mark of our faith
ress. It was estimated that approx-
follows:
to our high guardian deity, we are
imately 200.000 believers were cathers

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
The New Headquarters of The Tenrikyo
New Headquarters House
spec:al trouble to be present at the
ceremony in honor of the completion
of the edifices of tho headquarters
of the Tenrikyo, for which we are
Tenrikyo Sect Of Shintoism
sincerely grateful. This work has
been accomplished under protective
guidance of our god, by power of
faith of our fellow believers, and
The headquarters of the Tenrikyo,
the regular train:. 47 extra trains
with the support of the general pub-
Isni in Japan, at Tambaichi, Nara
the most predominant sect of Shinto-
packed with visitors.
There were observed the ceremo-
lc.
I take this occasion to solicit the
two succeeding days commencing
prefecture were in gala attire for the
nies to transfer the spirit of the
foundress from the old building to
assistance of the  neral public in
society, and mankind as a whole,
our work for the sake of the State,
from October 24, when the newly
built edifices of the Shinden or san-
the evening of October 24, starting
the new edifice of the sanctuary on
rarticularly for the cause of world
ctuary and the Reihalden or chapel
shortly after six o'clock. The core-
peace.
The present worshipping hall con-
were dedicated to the spirit of the
monies continued until midnight. The
sists of the sacred abode for the
foundress, Miki Nakayama at in-
cupacious precinets of the headquar-
deity in the iniddle, the old and new
pressive and solemn crenionies.
ters were filled by the devotees to
worsiipping places on the northern
The edifices, which are regarded
such an extent that there could be
and southern side, and the "Kanro-
by Tenrikyo believers as their ment-
not found even a single foot of
flai" which forms the central place
al symbol, were established at Jiba,
vacant space to stand on.
of worship. The present establish-
which, according to the explanation
On October 25. there took place
ment marks a step nearer to the wish
of the officials of the religion, is the
the rites to report the spirit of the
of our guardian god who declared
sacred place of the origin of all hu-
foundress on the completion of the
himself wedded to the cause of wel-
man beings, with donations con-
new edifices of the Tenrikyo home.
fare of "shiho-shimen" (literally
tributed by six million devotees scat-
The rites commenced before seven
four directions and four phases).
tered all over the country. There
c'clock, lasting until carly in the
The name of Kanrodai is derived
were also built the Kyosoden or
afternoon.
from the teachings of the foundress
home of the foundress and the
Goyo.
and completed this fall. These build-
edifices was started in June, 1931
The construction work of these
abbot of the Tenrikyo and the grand-
25 were conducted by Mr. Masayoshi
Nakayama. the Kwancho or chief
The ceremonies of October 24 and
called "Ofude-saki". The Kanrodal
of our religion as represented by the
sacred song" Mikagura-no-Uta" and
hy the foundress' own written record
means a foundation upon which peo..
ings are built of hinoki wood and
son of the foundress. There were
ple can enjoy "kanro" (nector) sent
cover a total area of 157ō tsubo. The
present more than 11,000 representa-
from Heaven.
its kind, is particularily unusual,
architectural style of the Shinden.
which is clainmed to be the biggest of
and several officials of the head-
tives of the Tenrikyo churches all
over the country. Mrs. Nakayama
monument in the center of creation
means ithe establishment of a
The establishment of Kanrodal
for there is a square skylight at the
above the floor.
center of the ceiling, about 24 feet
There is in the heart of the sanc-
dicated dances to the foundress to
The Kwancho delivered an address
quarters including a few ladies de-
the accompaniment of koto music.
of mankind. This monument our
earnestly
and this is significant not only from
gurdian
endeavored to establish,
god had much and
tu&ry and precisely straight below the
which was responded to by the mes-
this historical standpoint but in the
sky-light, the Kanrodai, which is
sage from the Education Minister,
sense that in doing so, people can
inttrpreted by the Tenrikyo priests
Gevernor Masasuke Kodama, of Nara
enjoy the bliss and grace or our
as the stand to receive what is
prefecture and Mr. Issaku Kanzaki.
high guardian deity.
called "medicine of longevity" af-
Kwancho of the Shindo-Honkyoku.
The Kanrodai was first made by
the religion. Centering around the
Kanrogal at the sanetuary, the de-
and which is the sacred treasure of
forded by Heaven to human beinga.
sent at the ceremonies on the second
maro Kikuzawa, chief of the Religion
Bureau of the Education Minsitry,
day at the sanctuary were:-Hide-
Among more than 200 guests pre-
the foundress in miniature in the
14th year of the same era, a regular
one was established in part, though
It was seized by the Government
dication ceremonies took place for
the governor of Nara prefecture,
authorities the following year.
the two days.
Manabu Kuji. chief of the Education
Now that we have been able to
The entire town of Yamao seemed
Department of Nara prefecture, Dr.
establish this important edifice.
to be in a state of unusual activity
Masharu Anezaki. professor of the
though not perfect. we are very
as the result of the flood of devotees
Tokyo Imper'al University and Chief
grateful. and the fact is of deep
who came there from all parts of the
Abbot Sadatane Saikl, of the Hosso
significance that it has been
country, even as far as Manchuril.
sect of Buddhism.
estallished just at this time of world
Chosen and Karafuto to pay their
crisís.
respects to the spirit of th, fotund-
The address made by the Kwancho
With this as the mark of our faith
ress. It was estimated that approx-
follows:
to our high guardian deity, we are
imately 200,000 believers were gather-
H. E. the Educational Minister and
reselved to work for the happiness
ed for these days. The local station
other preminent guests. in spite of
of our State and the world as a
of Tambalcht andled, in addition to
the pressure of their business, took
whole which is our supreme duty.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
GENERAL BOARD OF CHRISTIAN EDUCATION M&.Y
17 1935
Pe
METHODIST EPISOOPAL CHURGH. SOUTH
RECEI
WM. P. GULLIAN. GENRAL GEORETARY
GIO BROADWAY
NASHVILLE, TENNE
1935 MAY 11 AM 9 32
OF
AND
May 9, 1935.
IVISION
CONFERENCES
MAY17193
LOMMUNICATONS
AND RECORDS
Hon. Cordell Hurf
Divisionbl
Seeretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington,D. C.
MAY 11 1935
854.404
My dear Mr. Hull:
894.404/10
Devartment of State
I have been appointed fraternal delogate
by the Colloge of Bishops from the Methodist
FD.
Episcopal Churoh, South, to the General Conference
811.001 Ronnell,
of the Methodist Churoh in Japan. The General Confer-
once will meet in the early fall.
I would be glad if you could give me a
brief statement of greeting and good-will to this
Conference. Do you think it possible that President
Roosevelt would be willing to issue suoh a statement
so that I could present it in conneotion with my
address to the Conferenee? I will thank you to
assist m in this oonneotion, and assure you that
any commmmication given will be used only to promote
good-will between our nation and Japan.
MAY 18 1035
FILED
Yours very truly,
GEN PAL SECRETARY.
WFQ: A
F/FG.
1

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
May 17 1935
In reply refor to
FE 894.404/10.
My dear Mr. Quillian:
I refer to your letter of May 9, 1935, in whioh you
state that you have been appointed a delegate to the General
894.404/10
Conference of the Methodist Church in Japan which is to
meet in the early fall. You ask whether I could give you
a statement of greeting and good-will to that Conference
and whether the President would be willing to issue a
statement of a similar character for presentation by you
to the Conferenoe.
I need not say that it is a souroe of gratificetion
and pride to me as an Americun that tho solf-sacrifice and
patient endeavors of Americans have played no small part
in the establishment in a friendly country of an organiza-
tion which is associated with a great Amerioan religlous
communion. lowever, it would be contrary to general usage
and
Mr. Wm. P. Quillian,
General Secretary,
Ceneral Roord of Christian Education,
Mothodist piscopal Churoh, South,
e10 Proadway,
Nashville, Tennessee.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.91)
- 2 -
and eustom for officers of the govermment of one coumtry
to addross messages to conferenoes held in other coumtries
of non-governmental bodies, and confornably with such
usage and practice I must regretfully refrain from availing
myselr of your thoughtful invitation to issue a mossage
of good-will to the General Conference of the Methodist
Churoh in Japan or from reoommending to the President that
he issue to you a statement of a similar character for
presentation to the Conference.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hul:
P
PC
FEHD/DLY
FE
S
use
5-13-35
A tru copy 4
MAY 15
noutin
.933

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.404/1
891.9111/382
#486
SEE
FOR
FROM ....Iran
(..llornibrook....) DATED
June 26.1935
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING:
Moslems in Jupan.
¿uotes newspaper article concerning -.
W1

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.95)
and 17 an interesting topie for disoussions of musie and
the desirability or universalizing it among girl students.
o comrent.
B) ORb IGN A2 FAIRS
1) Diplomatic Jepanese onverts to lalam.
The I   AT or une 22 carried the following article
under tie caption of oslems in Japan, reprinted from the
Vo lI, a journal or the hite ua lana in ario:
"'he newspapers in Franoe publisn intoresting
articles about oslems in Japan. It is understood
that Jslamic savants who heve been foreed to emigrate
from the . . . to Japan are ngagod in giving
Lectures at te schools of Japan und Manchukuo.
umon them is a  oslem scholar who emigreted from
Purkestan and mho joined the superior school attached
to the en ral taff of rokyo as i rofessor of Criental
langruages and another one servins In the san capeeity
1n te sohools of anohukuo.
"In the year 1934 more than 1500 oslem students
were registered in the various feoulties of Japan.
The apanese covern ent is showing speoial attontion
to wusulmans an: the issemination of their culture.
ast year they rinted the oran 1n Japan (presummbly
in Japanese).
"Phe Japanese coverrment is endeavoring to
reconoile the hi'ite anc unn1 seets of Islam and
thus do uway ith the feelins of reciprocal disgust
and dissension w ic has for so many cen turies been
rulin the hearts of the divided adherents of this
faitn.
"The partisans of this dootrine are presided
over by tht Japanese mtassador in L ndon who is a
Moslem of the hi'ah seot. Ihe Japanese  inister in
Afghanistan was some tie ago converted to Islam.
"The rapproehement of Japan with the Islemie
world increases the importanee of the Moslems in the
eyes of the British Oovernment. The leader of the
Weslem Umlon in rokyo has stated that this rapproehs-
ment will be of greet importance to future struggles
between east and west."
Comment: . The alleged conversion of the Japanese
Minieter to Afghanistan to the Moslem faith wes
pessibly more pelitical than religious in cheraeter.
I6 is alse possible that the desire of the Japamsse
mavy for petrol might have eont ributed to such
conversion.
C)

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
890d.9111/106
FOR ....ReDOXt..
SEE
894.404/
FROM....Be1rut
(....Farrall......) DATED .uly..23..l935.
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Al-Ahrar al Musonni (Masonic Frce-thinkers) ia reported to
12
have designat d a learned ulema to go to Japan at their
expense to teuch the Mohammedan veligion in that country.
b
12
894,404

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.89)
Missiemary to
Jayea
Masente greug s
Demmsus, ealled "Al-Atrer al Masenn1" (Mageaie Free-
thimhere), 1s reperted to have desigmeted a learmed
uleme to go to Japan at their expense to teach the
Mohammedan religion in that country, as well as planning
894404
a publio subseription to fimnee the later mimsion of a
second ulema to Japen.1

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.91)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.404/
SEE ....032-Doucherty. Cardinal/1
FOR
+2276
FROM ....Jaran
(...Cran.
..) DATED
Reba..24..1937.
TO
NAME
REGARDING: Cardinal Dougherty, Ardhbishop of Philadelphia, was
received by various church officials of Japan , also
the Emperor received Cardinal Dougherty and the Apostolic
Delogate in separate audiences.
th
U)

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.77)
Tokye, Yobrunry 2, los.
Neo sate.
T
I  O J L  
OFFHILACELPNIA.
The tamoreDle
Tuooretry ortoto
Sankington.
After hoving attended tan Bärd Internetiomal
uaheristie ongrees at venile in the vapaclty of
pepel Legtto, benle  arail xouaherty, Aronbiobop
of Philadelphle, arrived in Tokye on Fobru ry 17,
cosompenled by a suits f five psrooms, end dopart
as the mext aftormoom for the umited  tetes. The
cardinml ses sivon r nors cortiel waleome by the
Japanese

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.84)
Jagennse soé the suseese af his visit was martede
mile the vislt mfforéed Premier end Mimister for
Furelgm Affeire Hnymshi and ths bigner ofriclels of the
Pageign Orfise an iaterlude in mcir present eares of
stete, it slmo prememted certeta dellento probloms of
pretocol. severel days before the arrivel of Faraimma
Deagherty mne bis perty,  nxirn r rella, the Apestolie
Delegnte in Takyo, salled on me mnd seid thet tho quastiem
of am mperiel sudtenee for  is Fminenee nnd boen bremebes
 mim by the Japaneen end that the mthoritles uf tho
Porelgm Orfiee ped intimsted that Cardinel oughorty eould
be reseived in audiemee by to aperor, secompaniod by
momoigmer Merelie, ee a hign offielal of tas Yetionn.
Mowwvwer, they were monemnat caberransed, ne erit, about
 possible feelingo lo te atler aud woro reluetant to
aporoeoh me on thle moore hore ives.
thth
perhape the Americen abassador micnt wieb to prement
Gardimal bougterty to to
eperor ns a distinculsned
Amerteen olti son.  a geuated to os i mor rrelle that
the Cardimal aiselr airut properl, deeide this questiom,
 I wouid not donire to run counter to is own
wimhes, pmrtio..l rly ir the Jepanos" euthorit es conourred.
The Apostelle el gain issedintely roplled thet he could
voueh for tho frct thet the ardinel, slunougt a strong
merisan, would be lsd to be reseived as a representetite
of the Pope, Henee, on the mornine of February 18, the
mperor reemived  srdicol ougtserty and the apeetolle
Delegate in saparste audlenses. Mes being e diplemetie
papreseatntive mouroulted to Japen, Sonalmeor Morelle
mas met in a position to mako tàe preeentesian.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.78)
Ammivime in Tekeheme on Pobruary 19, (aresmel
Dougherty aad sis party were weloomed by wr. Okamete.
Direeter of the cmorleom affeirs Bur st of the Poretm
Offioe, em behnlf of e intter for Frei affmt rs, ad
 Mr, Medurm, Pirst Searesary of tho mbeesy, on my be-
half. His sulte whe sompoeed of ts folloving peroons:
Bishop Bypne, of Pwerto ioo Sieh mrm, of sevomnea
Bishep Me loakey, of Jere, the . hillppines, Mossismor
Mebermlek, Searet ry né neph o of she nr nel; and
re Fimptrios, pel nrabarlain.reeéi to To
by motor, the nrd uml viaited the athedrel and later
a Cetholie vollog» and a : s olle snnvent.
In he venint ne ue  ueat of homar et a dim
ae g by re ler s  1 nye ia s ar peeity of
imloter fororeln rfer. ebere of the or
imelts suite, represen vee of she etmolie bure.
Forein Offloe offi ixln, end the underalgned wore the
other susets at dianer. in  ?: lundly apenon of weleeme
2
ln Jepaneen, a treaolrtlon of whion is enrloned ae pub
lihed by .  " of edrury l, nerel Rayn
reealled thet the etholis foith hed been introdueed iate
Jayem Ss0 yerrs ewo and :t prement natrmeed llo, 000 foilow
are in Jopm Froper mnd loo, 00 followere in orea. Sar-
dimel ougherty delivered e ouurtoous impromptu speseh in
reply. A ourlous inoldent took  leoe when the s dinal.
riolme from mis oleir and ros ing his sless of water, pro-
pesed a toset to the mperor. ipparently not uaderstande
ing the Cordinal's words and bel levi g thnt his own heelth
wae beine dramk, tae Frm ior rems iaed sested durine the
teast te the Emperere
Fo1lowsmg

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.81)
Fallemins his sudienoe with thr aperor, Cardinel
Deagherty visited the dei hrine sne bomed befere is
estemalbly fullowlng the alimte oustom of peyimg reepees
to the epirite of the deme. This set obrlously maée e
desp smpremsion en ane Japanose.
As she Separtaent is aare, cortmin  ro testent
seste in ts Japanese mpire heve visrouely objeeted
to te attendanee of thei: soboelebilsren at shinto
smersimss," mnd is  orca a controversy hes oxistes for
seme sime beteeen same or tie sission soheois end the
Japenesr muthoritles over ths ooc uleory attontanee of
Cmristima mebeolonildren at sueh exereisee. hlle the
cat elice in gomeral teve bren lulined to sake the broed
viee smat Shintoiam lo ut a reliml , atrletly aponkine.
but a form of  "tri lie anoostor raveso en, oven in the
Gatholio Church Were has been dinsension for eenturies
r tho queetinn uf wother odeiseee before ni
sarines wes compslible with the at olio raligiom, In
Ooteber lgse the Fope it an ane to the diapute, ae far
s the catolle huren wms woourund, by offi lclly auth-
orixlng Catholis sohooichilaren tn the Jepaneae mplre to
cartislpeto in ortain histo coromonios.
It would pom tort  dinrl poutlorty's aot of bowing
befere the Molji at ino wes intended as  eensirmotlon af
the ppel authorizatios, since this wms the riret peemsion
offered to e hich  otholic afficiul to domons trete the new
astitade of he Vetiean an tis melter. In tim memse, I
10
peevsoue cersemponiemse.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.76)
msmeee demmiem es a meaase to esciety end to
mtinel eiots.
ee estrully youre.
Joseph . Orow.
A tree copy of
5DAIG
the signed ofigi-
nal.
XnelOsures:
ed o.
Consulate Goneral, oul.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.83)
that the serdiality of toe speesh urde by Framler Maami
at bis aimmer for crdianl sougnerty on Februery lf wme
imrgely e remult of the foreknoeleage that the Carsimml
would pey sbeisance at She eijt hrine on the followimg
a7.
After their vielt to the Hoiji hrine, erdimel
Dougherty and his süitu attanded a lumoheon at the
bmesy. thers is attmehnd s list of the gueste, aons
whom were lneluded the helglen atessesor, esn of the
Diplemmtie corps, nnd Be roneon de sesumplerre, viseount
Imhil, Mre sorimounhi, wife of the vioe Minteter for
Foreiem affeirs, r. and Mre. vebucli, the Apostolie Dele-
mate in Tokyo, end the rontimbop of axyo. Premler
Raymehi end lr, orinoucki bed bees Lavited but were
umable to attend owis to an ongegoment nt the Felese.
The belgien snbeseador welved the pleoe of hanor t the
Cardimal as a  riuee of tho Church.
In ceatroat to  ordi el oughurty, whose puklse
remmres in Jepan were üon-politlosl in oh reotor, Bimmop
Kitty of Snn Frenalmeo, wto usd almo attended sho sush
arietie Congremo snd was in Jupan on his way to the Uaited
3tates, delivored a redio measage on Jemue ry 19 te Ammriemm
Listenere in whisn ho proleed tho "firn rnd umequiveeml"
stand of the Japanoss Govermment ag inst omsunim and
demouaeed

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
894.404
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE ......394..1163/6
FOR ...Latter.
FROM .Warnahuia, A.L.
...) DATED ....March. 1l.1937...
894.404/14
1-1127
Observations concerning the problem of Christianity and the
REGARDING:
state in Japan, with special reference to the problems of
Christian education: Copy of paper, written by Christian
Missionary in Japan during Summer of 1936:-Tranamits-,
FRG.
1

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE..394.1163/12
FOR Despatch #-. to Japan
FROM ..Oaaka
(. Makinson) DATEDMarch 30,1938
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.404/15
Christian organizitions asking for written .statements
on certain views in regard to Christianity.
aa
ふ

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
MR. HORNBECK
JUL 261938
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRE
July 21, 1938.
Tokyo's despatch no. 3036 of June 22, 1938,
ntitled "Japan and Mohammedans."
The despatch reports in considerable detail
the dedication of the first Mohammedan mosque in
Tokyo which was attended by Sheik Hafiz Wahba
and the Italian Ambassador, among others, and
passes on without comment two rumors, one to the
offect that the expenses of the Sheik and his
entourage were paid by the Italian Government,
and the other that the Turkish Ambassador to.
Tokyo declined an invitation to attend the
dedication because he did not want to lend him-
self to Japan's alleged plan of driving a wedge
between Great Britain and the Soviet Union
through cultivating close ties between Japan
and the Mohammedans of Sinkiang. The Embassy
feels that Japan's desire to cultivate closer
relations with Mohammedans is motivated
prinoipally by political reasons.
Comment: Both rumors undoubtedly have
considerable foundation in fact. The alleged
refusal of the Turkish Ambassador to attend the
Japanese Mohammedan festivities confirms the
close relationship existing between Turkey and
Great Britain and lends color at the same time
to the belief that Japan's embracing of the
doctrine of Islam is for political purposes
alone.
894.404/16
FE:Sbler: HES

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.93)
MR. HORBECK
THE PORIGN BERVICE
JUL 26 1938
OP TAE S
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, June 22, 1938
No. 3036
SUBJECT:
JAPAN AND MOHAIMEDANS.
1
894.404/16
ONI AID
MR. WELLES
afrDT
1121.1
The Honorable
PEVISION
The Secretary of State,
UROLTAN ALIHS
ply
Vashington.
.84
Sir:
DEPARTMENS
Considerable publicity was given by the Japanese
press to the dedication on May 12 of the first Mohammedan
DG
mosque to be built in Tokyo and the event was acclaimed
as a significant development in Japan's policy of further-
ing friendly relations with Mohammedan countries. An indi
FILED
cation that Japan was desirous of promoting closer relations
1939
with Moslem countries was given on January 29, 1938, by
Mr. Hirota, the then Minister for Foreign Affairs. Inter-
H
(B)
pollated in the Diet as to whether the Government had given
thought to establishing closer contact with the Mohammodans
because their geographical distribution should make them an
offective bulwark against communism, Mr. Hirota replied
that

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
that the Government was giving full consideration to the
problem of cooperation with Mohammedans and was also
maintaining close contact with Japanese Mohammedan scholars.*
The dedication ceremony was attended by approximately
500 Moslem representatives from the continent of Asia and
from Japan and by the following prominent persons: the
Italian Ambassador and the Counselor of the Italian Embassy;
Prince Hussein, third son of the King of Yemen; Sheik Hafiz
Wahba, the Saudi-Arabian Minister to Great Britain; the
Egyptian Minister to Japan; Viscount Vice-Admiral Ogasawara,
Vice-President of the Dai-Nippon Islamic Society; Mr. Kiyoshi
Minister; and representatives of Japanese, Indian, Chinese,
d(Bi
"Manchukuo", Turco-Tartar, and Korean Mohammedans. Several
C
days after the dedicetion of the Mosque, Prince Hussein
and the Saudi-Arabian Minister made radio broadcasts from
Tokyo to Moslems throughout the world in which they expressed
gratitude for the hospitality extended by the Japanese to
the Mohammedans attending the ceremony and discoursed on
Japan's friendship for followers of the Prophet.
Two rumors have gone the rounds of the diplomatic corps,
one concerning Prince Hussein of Yemen and Sheik Hafiz
Wahba, and the other regarding Mr. Husrev Gerede, the
Turkish Ambassador to Japan. The first rumor has it that
the erpenses of Prince Yemen's and Sheik Hafiz Wahba's
voyage to and from Japan and of their stay in this country
wore defrayed by the Italian Government. Aocording to the
second rumor, Mr. Hirota invited the Turkish Ambassador
783.9+12
to
*Embassy's despatoh No. 2767, February 4, 1938

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
o attend the ceremony in dedication of the mosque but
the latter declined the invitation, having purposely ar-
ranged a luncheon party at his Embassy for the day in
question, and also declined an invitation to attend the
opening of the mosque if it should be postponed. It is
said that Mr. Gerede gave as an exouse to Mr. Hirota the
fact that he did not care to mix politics with religion
but that his real reason for not participating at the
dedication was that he did not want to lend himself to
Japan's alleged plan of driving a wedge between Great
Britain and the Soviet Union through cultivating close
ties between Japan and the Mohammedans of Sinkiang.
It is reported that various Moslem communities in
Japan have approached the Japanese Ministry of Education
with the request that the Mohammedan faith be accorded the
recognition given to Shintoism, Buddhism, and Christianity,
but that the Japanese authorities are loath to grant such
recognition for the reason that there is much dissension
among the various Moslem groups in Japan. Regardless of
the religious question, Japan's desire to cultivate closer
relations with Mohammedans would appear to be motivated
principally by political reasons, judging from the Diet
interpellation and reply referred to above and from articles
published recently in Japan. In an article published in a
recent issue of the Japanese magazine, SEIKAI OHRAI, it is
stated that the present hostilities in China have done much
to create among the Mohammedans in China a tendenoy to
guard against communism and to entertain friendly feelings
for Japan, and that should the ideal of Pan-Islamism attain
fruition

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.95)
fruition the Moslems of Asia, Africa, and the South Seas
would be able to emancipate themselves "from the shackles
of the Christian countries". The YOMIURI of June 18 re-
ported that a movement for the organization of a league
embracing Mohammedan residents in Japan, estimated to number
about 1,Oo0, was being sponsored by the Ministers of War,
Navy, Foreign Affairs, and Education with a view to linking
Japan and the Mohammedans in "Manchukuo", China, and Cen-
tral Asia in a campaign against the Comintern.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
710
GDA:s:g
Copy to
Ambassador Johnson
Embassy, Peiping
n
Rome
n
n
Legation, Iraq
n
Embassy, Istanbul

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
395.1163/76
letter
SEE
FOR
894.404/
H. Parker Dunlop
Nov.7.1938.
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Religion in the Japanese Empire:
Article transmitted, discussing the
Christian Missionary work that has been
done, and effect of the militury situation
on sane.
ag
3

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 24, 1939
Tokyo's despatoh no. 3722 of Maroh 1,
1939, entitled "Proposed Legislation for
Definition of the Status of Religious
Organizations and for the Control Thereof",
reports that a bill 1s before the Diet pro-
viding for legal definition of the status
of various religlous organizations 1n Japan
and devising extensive measures for the
control of such organizations. The Embassy
does not believe that at the present time
the Japanese Government has any 1ntention
of unreasonably restricting or interfering
with Christian activities 1n Japan but that
1t 1s too early to predict the manner of
interpretation and adminietration by the
Government of this legislation.
The despatch's interest will be
enhanced if and when the bill becomes law.
FE:a
:HJN

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
LEGAL ADVISER
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
To: yo, March 1, 1939.
No. 3722.
SUBJ CT: PROPOSED L GIJLATION FOR DEFINIT O.. CF THE
STATUS CF RELIGICUS ORGANIZATICNS AND FOR TIE
COTROL THREOF.
03A
F
SNOI
JF
rE
0
Divisi on of
1939 AR 20 AM 11 17
FLEASTEAN ALFAIRS
894.404/18
894.404
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
MAR
FILED
Sir:
I have the honor to report that there has been
proposed to the present Diet, and already approved by
the House of Pe rs, a bill providing for a legal defini-
tion of the status of various religious organizations in
Japan and devising extensive measures for the control of
such organizations. According to an article published
by

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
by the Ministry of Education in the official SHUHO,
similar legislation has been proposed on three separate
occasions since 1899. This same article emphasized the
importance of religious activities in developing and
cultivating the "spiritual power" of the people to enable
them to endure any difficulty and that for this reason
and particularly at this tim such legislation is of the
greatest importance to Japan. The article states in
one part that "in the arafting of this religious or-
ganization bill efforts were also made to provide pro-
tection, encouragement and assistance for those religious
organizations which function in accord with the Govern-
ment, and to provide restrictions upon the activities of
those organizations which do not conform to public welfare
and interest."
Religious organizations are divided into five classes -
Shinto sects, Buddhist sects, other religious orders,
Buddhist temples, and churches. In various discussions
by Government officials and the press, some emphasis
has been placed on the fact that Christianity is treated
on an equal basis with Shintoism and Buddhism. All
religious organizations are to be, after obtaining recog-
nition, exempt from income taxes, land taxes, local taxes,
registration taxes, and their buildings and property are,
in principle to be exempt from seizure.
It has been stated that two of the principal objeotives
of this legislation are as follows:
1.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
1. To consolidate and rationalize the existing
rules and regulations concerning relisious organizations.
At present, control and supervision of religious organiza-
tions is divided between the Home Ministry and the Education
Ministry, but under the proposed legislation, control will
be centralized under the Ministry of Education.
2. A more rigid control and in many cases elimina-
tion of pseudo-religious orders and "fly-by-night" religious
promoters. Those organizations which are not to be classified
on an equal basis with the three largest organizations,
Christianity, Buddhism and Shintoism, will be considered
as "religious societies". In this bill Mohammedan mosques
have not been granted status as religious organizations.
This fact has been the basis for several questions in
the Diet, and accordins to the press, was the basis of an
interview bet.een .r. Arita, Minister for Foreign Affairs,
and El Sayid bin el Kebsy, Minister of Religion of the
Kingdom of Yemen, Arabia, wio has been staying in Tokyo
since last May. Government spokesmen are said to have
replied that full recognition would be accorded Mohammedanism
as soon as that religion attained significance in Japan
comparable with the other organizations to which recoglition
has been accorded, and that there was no intention of any
discrimination whatsoever against Mohanmedanism.
This legislation is, of course, of interest to the
Department principally because of the possible significance
it may have with regard to American missionary activities
in Japan. It is not believed at the present time that
the Government has any intention of unreasonably restricting
or

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
or interfering with Christian activi ies in this country,
but it is too early to predict the manner of interpreta-
tion and administration by the Goverrment of this important
legislation. The Embassy will, of course, forward to the
Department a.translation of tne law as soon as possible
after it has been promulgated.
Respectfully yours,
Goofh. F
840.4
Joseph C. Grew.
MWS:C

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.93)
for a yearly Comeree
t may be required of us in widely working for
far aa Chinese Muslime are concerned and oux
evement in fact requires adequate pres
tand the Congress".--
dah M. Amin Khan - Kalgan, Chahar, North
Bekaed, 1357 A.H.
2 April 1939.
gretary of State
AP
mhington, D.C.
Ixcellenoy:-
Attached for your information is Resolution regardi
Liscrimination against the Islamic religion by the 74th Japanese
sim lar content, a protest was air-mailed on the 22d
ency the Minister of Foreign Affairs at Tokyo.
Personally, I may add that if I were in some country
ther
a State-Church, such as England, or even Muslim Bgyp
rea
ld not handle such issue of discrimination. No doubt
kllah(God), we get the genuine American Muslim
we(or mosques), we will be able to accomplâsh many
now be touched.
t humble American and a most humble Mualim
I remain respectfully and loyally yours
L. Klidk (Selin)
Selim-Glick
APR8 159C
PLSD

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.78)
the Grgmaising Cemmettee of the pro poeed Ameetenn
Lakante Heege amseete tsn. threugh 1ts Chasmn(ty atherten ten).
bee temnse te Soslenteg neselntion to go ane to the enstre asltm
e wsthe mh the Comsttee ta La coteve contmets
•Los Angeles, Califormia, U. S. A.
March 29th, 1930
(GOD)
t tt the date, areh asth, the closins ate a the
74th Japa Diet, which has grossly Lusulted koslame  direeted
'sertmimmtion against the sucred religion of Iaas, be cem
d e  yonsly dag of aiene and mounng se Long as the
risimtion acists, and
NnTe HuaLVADte. tet the Amerienn Republtes, ta their fair
pelitienl trentment of all religions, regurlless of the mamber
of adherents, tareugh having abol lahed 3tate Cherekes, are
resegatsed an aeserving the goodewilll and suppert of t
Xeelem anmd all ether justice-loving peoples."
L. eliek (selim). chmimmmm.
rh  28th, 1930."
-
For fudation

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.87)
92
AAN, THS  FICIT, TH GRACIOUBI B IT RLVD
Reming Comstitution be adeptak:
LBLAIC MOGUN ASSOGIATIO  AMSRIGA.
Tma - Mambemkip shall consiet of ctive Mambers mho are Duslimim of
seed ehareeter and resord and or legal age, resident in the Ünited States
of Ameries, end muck other elasses of non-voting members as the organ-
This organimtiom recoguises as lsmlimim all who opealy proslaim
that Allak(God) is (me mad whose final prophot is uhammsd. All members
Aetive members may not be direstly unguged in uay business con-
sidered illegitimate to the Holy cligion of Ialum, such as Liquce.
Gamblingeets.
Foun - C1tm af the nited tate of merion ahll be preferred for
Officerm,Cowmitteamem and Delegates. Bollowing the firet meeting for
erganizatiom, thay shall be elected yomrly by a majority of votors at a
ealled metive mesting for the purposee with due notice of at least a
montaly meeting in advance. The prineiple officers shall bes presidents
vice-presidest, secretury; treasurer, mam and a Correu, ondent. The
treamarer aball be aseisted by four other momberss who are not officees
to serve as an eleoted 
 fimameial emmittee of five. The Corres-
pondent ahall easist the Sacretary with the correspondonce end wallinges
as designntede
Ivs - Meetinge shall b held regularly at leust snce u month at appeinted
plase for whieh the secretury sbmll send out notices in good time, beside
the speoial meetings as may be duly culled.
Sl& - This Consitation may be smended after paaange of a ution at aay
regular session to eall a special conutitutiural amendent mceting. mmde
three mon the in mivamee. at the wame time apointing  ccstitutional
amendment comittee of at loaat five mmbers to study uni rc ort on all
questions relating to the eonstitution brought bofore it in writing by
embers.
-000
B
1 - all moncy hanled by the or ganization alil be Wrugh an elccted c
mittee of five sembers, ane of wom shall be pex-officiu,ti t cusurer.
They may only row togeter from a melectedx benk of de usit on muthod ty
of a duly conetitu ted weeting. elthough a strlotly limited etty cash fund
may be set muide for inoidemtalee All monoy receivei uil ve sc rupulously
accounted for with numbered recelpts.
2 - Meetinget » quorm of motive membere to cunstitute a cailed or reguler
meeting ahall be twelve.
3 - Duos and Contributione:(to be decided u n in : eguier sveting)
4 - here not otherwiae tovided for, Roberts ules of ruer ohwll prevuil
in the conduct of mee tiugs und trunauctions of the organization.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.76)
400
(ord of out)
OVB XD R Y AR  C NG AT JID.
1387 A .l.s he gmeeiously wretes-
  D D  
MU THER A  RKINO  TULY HIC IT  DLC TO
SOGT R JL    URT IT  W TH
CRID  WI AND RNT DA S Y TH TI LD RLD
 D   
  A       
OR INO  PIT THVT IN .CT   RA
  T  O DTIV BDY  
V THTD T
Am mrller sup orter of the Cotgrean ove, thw honoraule Muhemsad
Trmsig Xillinges, of Fransembad, wrt es since the twk ing over froe
Cmeelovakie by th Jenme umier dse G.lS tating
"I hmve the sremt desire to meetd with yom as moon as possible
besmme yon re folloine  opinim. she right wam for ti right ps
fer the great under taking you ure working for mo long a time almendy: to
arramge a perzmnent e-lulsio Congreso in Jidda witi " nol-ues tarian
momopelitieal program d I hope we wall do ite I cannot say yet wham hat
I hope so nos s poosiule I The time unu the lulam ure both mipe à
It ls high tümee o we will weet and we will do our Holy works we both
meed only   and the time is with us I I  Is i my
ANDICCSHAH
To thie emsouragime expression und prayer Let un saypmins
In thie conaecti we ill resall the worus of ed Bji Ali Babmm of
Imdia, where he brilliaatiy statod:- "...The ualims fimaneially are wory
weak and settins weaker. There wuet by body to molve all probl u
dimumity mo hauvily weakening the Luslin worlde Jeudaihs te cantre, I
too prop.
All Malimi are invited to sil unuor entuauucti o and
critieo o Gici l osorzic, Clirornia, until
the vermanent organtziny orfice und librury are entublinlied at Jidde.
-0-000

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Jume 19, 1939
Tokye's despatoh no. 39l0 of May 23,
1939 emcloses a copy of a translation of
the religieus organisation law passed by
the Miet April 8. The despatoh summarises
the primeipal peints of the law and states
that the purpose of the law appears to be
the bringing up to date and the integration
of the various existing laws and regulations
concerning religious organizations and the
centralising of supervision over religious
atters in the Ministry of Education and
the providing of strioter control for the
sake of peace and order. Mr. Dooman states
that, as a whole, Amerioan mission repre-
sentatives and influential Japanese Chris-
tians regard the new legislation with
equanimity and, aside from the slight ad-
ministrative adjustments which my be re-
quired, no real diffioulties are antioipated.
894.404/20
FE: SaAry: HJM

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICA
No. 3910.
Tokyo, May 23, 1939.
SUBJECT:
TRANSMISSION OF TRANSLATION OF THE
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION LAW.
File
Copy n F E
894.404
193 UN 1 1 30
394.
REVE
:0
894.404/20
2
The Honoreble
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my despatch no. 3722,
March 1, 1939, in regard to proposed legislation for the
1/
control of religious organizations in Japan, and to transmit
J0N261939
herewith a translation by the Embassy of the Religious Organi-
zation Law which was passed by the 74th Session of the Diet
and promulgated in the KANPo (Orricial Gazette) on April 8,
1939.
The principal provisions of the Religious Organization
Law are as follows:
1. Control of religious organizations is placed under
the jurisdiotion of the Ministry of Education instead of the
F/FQ
Ministry

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Ministry of Home Affairs.
2. The term "religious organization" as it is used in
the law includes Shinto sects, Buddhist seots, denominations
of Christian and other religions, Buddhist temples, and
churches.
3. The law requires that permission of the Minister of
Education must be obtained for the establishment of religious
organizations, their union or dissolution, for the adoption
of their rules and regulations and any changes therein, for
the appointment and dismissal of representatives, and for
the disposal or mortgage of property of religious organiza-
tions. Any religious doctrine taught, any religious rite
performed, or any other religious function held which is
liable to disturb the public peace or is contrary to the
duties of Japanese subjects may be prohibited by the Minister
of Education.
4. Religious organizations are to be exempt from income
taxes, land taxes except those on land earning rent, and local
taxes.
5. Violations of the law are to be punished with fine
or imprisonment.
6. Religious organizations in existence at the present
time are given two years in which to comply with the provisions
of the law.
As mentioned in my despatoh under reference, the Religious
Organization Law appears principally to be designed to bring
up to date and to integrate the various existing laws and
regulations concerning religious organizations, to centralize
supervision

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
supervision over religious matters in the Ministry of Eduea-
tion, and to provide stricter control over religious organi-
zations for the purpose of regulating and eliminating those
which are liable to disturb the public peace and order or
which run counter to the duties of Japanese subjects.
As a whole American mission representatives in Japan
and influential Japanese Christians with whom the Embassy
is in contact regard the new legislation with equanimity.
While recognizing the onerous character of many of the
provisions of the law, they welcome what they feel to be a
precise logal definition of the powers of the local officials
with regard to church organization. Moreover, they see a
positive gain in the fact that church property, except that
which is earning rent, is clearly exempted from all taxes in
the new law.
Aside from the slight administrative adjustments which
may be required among certain Christian organizations no
real difficulties are anticipated in the operation of the new
legislation.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
1/ Translation of
the Religious Organi
Eugene H. Dooman
zation Law.
Charge d'Arfaires a.i.
840.4
FAS:g.r.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
Enelosure no. 1 to despateh
no. 3910 of May 23, 1939
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation of the Religious Organization Law ( Law no. 77
of 1939)
We give Imperial sanction to, and hereby order to be
promulgated, the keligious Organization Law which has re-
ceived the concurrence of the Imperial Diet.
Imperial Sign Manual and Privy Council.
April 7, 1939.
Baron Kiichiro iranuma
Prime inister
Baron Sadao Araki
Minister of Education
Marquis koichi Kido
Minister for nome Affairs.
Sotaro Ishiwata
Minister of Finance.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
-1•
Law No. 77
Religious Organization Law.
Artiole l. The term "religious organization",
as it is uaed in this law, shall include Shinto seots, Buddhist
sects, denominations of Christian and other religiems (here-
inafter referred to simply as Shinto seets, Buddhist seets,
and denominations), Buddhist temples, and ohurohes.
Article 2. Shinto seots, Buddhist seots, dono-
minations, and churches may be made juridioal persons. Buddhist
temples shall be juridical persons.
Article 3. In order to establish a Shinto sect,
Buddhist seot or a denomination, the founder must apply for
the permission of the Minister concerned by filing the regu-
lations of the seot or denomination, at which time intent to
form a juridical person should be stated, if such is desired.
The following items shall be included in the
regulations of sects and denominations as filed:
1. Name.
2. Location of administrative office.
3. Outline of doetrine.
4. How the dootrine is propagated and how
ceremonies are performed.
5. The constitution of the superintending priest,
the supervisor of a denomination, or similar
organ, method provided for seleotion and dis-
missal, and the extent of official powers.
6. Matters concerning temples, churohes and affi-
liated organizations.
7.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
7. The qualirications, titles, method of seleetion
and dismissal, eto., of chief priests of temples
of responsible heads of churches, or their
proxies, and of preachers, and like information
concerning the olergy.
8. Matters concerning followers of Shinto seets, of
Buddhist seots, and of denominations.
9. Matters concerning control of property and other
financial affairs.
10. Matters concerning publio works of the seot or
denomination.
Permission of the Minister concerned is neces-
sary before amendments to the regulations of a seet or denomi-
nation can become effective, or before a sect or denomination
which is not a juridical person, can become a juridical person.
Article 4. A Shinto seot and a Buddhist seot
shall have a superintending priest, and a denomination shall
have a supervisor of denomination.
A superintending priest or a supervisor of denomi-
nation shall preside over, and represent, a Shinto sect, a
Buddhist sect, or a denomination.
When a superintending priest or a supervisor of
denomination is absent, is a minor, or is unable to attend
to affairs for a long period of time, a proxy shall be ap-
pointed to undertake his affairs.
Permission of the Minister concerned must be ob-
tained before a superintending priest, a supervisor of denomi-
nation, or his proxy is appointed.
Article 5. Shinto sects, Buddhist seets, or deno-
minations may combine or dissolve with the approval of the
Minister concerned.
Shinto

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Shinto seets, Buddhist seets, or denominations shall be
dissolved by revoking the permission for their organization.
Article 6. In order to establish a temple or a church,
other than those stipulated in paragraph 2 of Article 5, the
founder must seoure the approval of the superintending priest
or supervisor of denomination and apply for the permission
of the prefeotural governor by filing the regulations of the
temple or churoh, at which time intent to form a juridical person
should be stated, if such is desired.
The following items shall be included in the regulations
of temples and churches as filed:
1. Name.
2. Location.
3. Title of object of worship, god enshrined, Buddha
installed, eto.
4. Name of Shinto seot, Buddhist seot, or denomination
with which is it affiliated.
5. If the church in question is not affiliated with a
Shinto sect, Buddhist sect, or denomination, the
following data shall be mentioned in place of the
data of the preceding item:
Name of religion worshipped.
Outline of doctrine taught.
Qualifications, titles, method of appoint-
ment and dismissal, etc., of preachers.
6. Method of propagating the doctrine and of performing
ceremonies.
7. Information concerning the chief priest of a temple,
the responsible head of & churoh, and similar
organs.
8. Information concerning followers of Shinto seots, of
Buddhist

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
Buddhist seots, and of denominations, and their re-
presentatives.
9. Rules pertaining to the relationship between main and
subsidiary temples, and kinds of scriptures used.
10. Matters concerning control of property and other
financial affairs.
11. Matters concerning public works.
In order to change the regulations of a temple or churoh,
or in order that a churoh which is not a juridical person may
become a juridical porson, the agreement of representatives
of followers of the Shinto sect, Buddhist seot, and denomina-
tion, the approval of the superintending priest or supervisor of
denomination in oase of churches other than those which fall
under item 5 of the preceding paragreph, and the permission
of the prefectural governor must be obtained.
Article 7. A Buddhist temple shall have e chief priest,
and a church. shall have a responsible head of the church.
The chierpriest or the responsible head of the church
shall preside over, and represent the Buddhist temple or church,
respectively.
When a chief priest or a responsible head of the church
is absent, is a minor, or is unable to attend to affairs for a
long period of time, a proxy shall be eppointed to undertake
his affairs.
Artiole 8. A Buddhist temple or u churoh shall have
not less than three representatives or followers (Hereinafter
referred to simply as representatives).
Representatives shall assist, in connection with the manage-
ment of a temple or churoh, the chief priest of a Buddhist
temple or the responsible head of a church.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
Appointment and dismissal of representatives must be
reported by the chier priest of the temple or the responsible
head of the churoh concerned, to the mayor, or chief of
town or village concerned (in case of a city falling under the
provisions of article 6, or of article 82, paragraph 3, of
the Municipal Organization, the mayor shall be replaced by
the chief of a ward, and in case of places where the Town
and village Organization is not applicable, the chief of
town or village shall be replaced by a corresponding person).
Article 9. A Buddhist temple or a church which is a
juridical person must register, in accordance with orders,
treasures and other important properties, other than real
estate, on a property ledger of Buddhist temples or on a
property ledger of churches kept by the prefectural governor.
Persons desiring to peruse, or obtain a copy or excerpt
of, the property ledger of Budihist temples or the property
ledger of churches may request it in accordance with orders.
Article lo. Before performing any one of the following
acts, a Buddhist temple or a church which is a juridical
person must obtain the consent of its representatives and
permission of the prefectural governor by submitting, except
in the case of a church which falls under Paragraph 2 (5) of
article 6, the written opinion of its superintending priest
or of the supervisor of the denomination:
1. To dispose of, or give as security, real estate or
properties which are duly entered in property ledgers
of Buddhist temples or of churohes.
2. To borrow or to give security for loan.
In the above cases, if the consent of representatives can-
not be obtained, the chier priest of a Buddhist temple or the
responsible head of a churoh must submit a statement of his
reasons

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
reasons and obtain the approval thereupon of the prefectural
governor.
No aot stipulated in paragraph 1 shall be valid when
it is performed without the approval of the prefeotural
governor.
No aot stipulated in paragraph 1 performed without the con-
sent of representatives shall be valid unless the approval of
prefectural governor stipulated in paragraph 2 has been ob-
tained.
In the case of the preceding two paragraphs, if the
other party concerned is considered to have acted in good
faith and without negligence, the chier priest of the Buddhist
temple or the responsible head of the church who has performed
the act in question shall be held responsible for fulfillment of
the contraot or for compensation for damages, according to the
choice of the other party concerned.
Article ll. Buddhist temples or churches exoept those
which fall under paragraph 2, (5), of article 6, may combine
or dissolve by obtaining the approval of the superintending
priest of a Buddhist temple or of the supervisor of denomination
and the permission of the prefectural governor.
When a Buddhist temple or a church falls under any one of
the following items, the prefectural governor may revoke the
permission for the establishment of such Buddhist temple or
ohuroh:
1. When a temple or church fails to provide a new building
within five years after its old building has been
destroyed.
2. When the chief priest of a Buddhist temple, responsible
head of a church, or his proxy is absent for a period
of time exceeding three years.
A Buddhist temple or a churoh shall dissolve when permission
for establishment is revoked.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
Artiole 12. Necessary matters concerning the management
of grounds of temples and churohes, change of limits of such
grounds, and management of buildings upon suoh grounds, shall
be determined by order.
Article 13. Religious organizations which are juridical
persons must be registered in accordance with the provisions
of an Imperial ordinance.
Matters to be registered in accordance with the pro-
visions of the preoeding paragraph may not be used in dealing
with third persons until registration has been effected.
Artiole 14. Necessary matters concerning the union and
dissolution of religious organizations other than those for
which provisions are made in this law shall be determined by
Imperial ordinance.
Article 15. Provisions of articles 43, 44, 50 of para-
graph 1 of article 51, of erticles 54 and 57, and of articles
73 to 83, of the Civil Code, and the provisions of articles 24,
26, and 27 of the Law Concerning the Application of the Civil
Code, shall be applicable mutatis mutandis to religious organi-
zations which are juridical persons, and the Provisions of
articles 4l and 42 of the Civil Code shall be applied mutatis
mutandis to Buddhist temples and churches which are juridical
persons. However, the election of a special deputy through
the application of provisions of article 57 of the Civil Code,
shall be carried out in accordance with the regulations of
Shinto seots, of Buddhist seots, or of denominations, or in
accordance with the regulations of Buddhist temples or of
ohurohos.
Article l6. When a religious doctrine taught, a religious
rite performed, or any other religious funotion carried out by
a religious organization or priest, is liable to disturb
publio

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
publio peace and order, or is contrary to the duties of Japa-
nese subjeots, the Minister concerned may restrict or prohibit
such funotion, suspend the service of the priest concerned, or
revoke the permission for the establishment of the religious
organization concerned.
Artiole 17. When a religious organization or a person
holding an office in a religious organization violates laws
and regulations, regulations of Shinto sects, of Buddhist seots,
of denominations, of temples, or of churohes, or performs
an aot which is injurious to the puolic interest, the Minister
concerned may revoke, suspend, or prohibit such action, or may
order the person concerned dismissed from office.
When a priest violates laws and ordinences or performs
an act injurious to the public interest, the inister concerned
may suspend him from duty.
Article 18. When it is necessary from the stendpoint of
control, the Minister concerned may request a report from a
religious organization, or may investigate the actual conditions
provailing in a religious organization.
Article 19. The Minister concerned may entrust, in ao-
cordance with orders, a part of his authority stipulated in
this law to prefectural governors.
Article 20. Any person who is dissatisfied with the
decision made in gocordance with the provisions of article ll,
paragraph 2, article 16, or article 17, may appeal from the
decision.
Any person whose rights have been damaged through illegal
cancelation of permission for establishment under provisions
of article 1l, paragraph 2, or article 16, may bring an action
in a court of administrative litigation.
whon

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
When an action is brought, in accordance with the
provisions of the preceding paragraph, in a court of ad-
ministrative litigation, an appeal shall not be permitted.
Article 2l. Buildings used for public servioes of
religious organizations, or grounds upon whioh such buildings
are standing, which are duly registered in accordance with
orders, may notbe seized for any monetary olaims based upon
private laws arising after such properties have been regis-
tered except in those instances where seizure is made for
the execution of a right of priority for real estate, or
for the execution of a mortgage right or of a right of pledge,
or in case of bankruptoy.
The same regulations shall apply to treasures duly re-
gistered in property ledgers of temples or churches.
Article 22. Religious organizations shall, in accordance
with order, be exempted from income taxes.
Temple and church grounds shall, in accordance with
orders, be exempted from land taxes provided that an exception
shall be made in regard to grounds earning rent.
The government of Hokkaido, prefectures, cities, towns,
villages, and other public organizations may not impose local
taxes on incomes of religious organizations.
Article 23. When a Society, other than a religious or
ganization, which propagates religious doctrine and performs
religious rites ( hereinafter referred to simply as a religious
society) is organized, representatives of the society must draw
up regulations of the society, and file them with the prefectural
governor within fourteen days. The same rule shall apply
when any revision takes place in connection with items reported.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
Regulations of a religious society must include the
following items:
1. Name
2. Location of office
3.Matters concerning doctrine, rites, and funotions.
4. Title of God enshrined, Buddhist image worshipped,etc.
5. Matters concerning organization
6. Matters concerning tl.3 menagement of property and
other financial affairs.
7. Qualifications and method of selection of representa-
tives and preachers.
Article 24. The representatives of a religious society
must file, without delay, the name and address of every
preacher belonging to the society with the prefectural
governor. The same rule shall apply when any revision takes
place in connection with matters reported.
Article 25. The provisions of articles 16 to 18, and
of article 20, paragraph 1, shall be applied mutatis mutandis
to religious societies, and representatives and preachers
thereof.
Article 26. When a missionary or e preacher violates
the reguletions governing restriction, prohibition, or sus-
pension of service, as provided in article l6 (including the
case of the preceding article where provisions of article l6
are applied mutatis mutandis), or the regulations governing
suspension of service as stipulated in article 17, paragraph
2 (including preceding article in which the provisions of
article 17, paragraph 2, are applied mutatis mutandis), he
shall be sentenced to prison, with or without hard labor, for
a term not to exceed six months, or be made to pay a fine of
not

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
not more than five hundred yen.
The rule of the preceding paragraph shall apply to the
representatives or other officials of a religious organization
or of a religious society in question, missionaries, or
preachers, when they commit similar violations in the know-
ledge that there was such restriction or prohibition imposed
upon the religious organization or upon the religious society
in accordance with the provisions of article 16 (including
the case of the preceding article in which provisions of
article 16 are applied mutatis mutandis).
Article 27. When the report prescribed in article 23
ishot filed, or when an incorrect report is filed, by the
representative of a religious society, a fine of not more
than ¥300 shall be imposed.
a
Article 28. The representatives of/religious organiza-
tion, which is a juridical person, falling under any one of
the following items, shall be made to pay a fine of not more
than ¥200:
1. When registrst'on is not made in accordance with the
provisions of  vicle 13, paragraph 1, and of article
15 in which provisions of article 27 of the Civil
Code are applied mutatis mutandis.
2. When the provisions of article 51, paragraph 1 of
the Civil Code which are applied mutatis mutandis
in artiole 15 of this law, are violated, or when
an incorrect statement is made in a property in-
ventory.
3. When an inspection carried out by a court in ao-
cordance with the provisions of article 82 of the
Civil Code which are applied mutatis mutandis
in article 15 of this law, is obstruoted.
4.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
4. When a petition for adjudication of bankruptoy
presoribed in article 8l of the Civil Code which is
applied mutatis mutandis in article 15 of this law,
is not filed.
5. When the public notice prescribed in article 79 or
in article 8l of the Civil Code which are applied
mutatis mutandis in article 15 of this law, is not
made, or when an incorrect public notice is made.
The rule of the preceding paragraph shall also be ap-
plicable when the representetives of religious organizations
or of religious societies fail to make the report prescribed
in article 18 (including article 25 in which the provisions
of article 18 are applied mutatis mutandis), make an incorrect
report, or obstruct the investigetion which is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the above mentioned article,
and when representatives of e religious society do not make
the report prescribed in article 24, or make an incorrect
report.
The provisions of article 206 to 208 of the Code of Procedure
in Non-Litigious Cases shall be applied mutatis mutandis to
the fines presoribed in the preceding two paragraphs.
Supplementary Regulations
Article 29. Date of enforcement of this law shall be
determined by Imperial ordinance.
Article 30. Decree no. 249 issued by the Dajokan (4d-
ministrative Counoil) in l873, decree no. 43 issued by the
Dajokan (Administrative Council) in l877, and notification
no. 19 1ssued by the Dajokan (Administrative Council) in 1884,
shall

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
 be repealed.
Article 3l. Shinto or Buddhist sects under this law
shall be construed to be Shinto or Buddhist sects not juri-
dical persons in existence at the time of the enforcement of
this law, the organization of which is permitted under this
law, and superintending priests under this law shall be con-
strued to be the superintending priests of such Shinto or
Buddhist sects.
Shinto or Buddhist sects mentioned in the preceding
paragraph must determine their regulttions, and obtain the
approval therefor of the minister concerned within one year
from the time when this law goes into effect. Until such
approval is given, existing regul:tions of Shinto or Buddhist
sects shall take the place of the regulations for Shinto or
Buddhist sects prescribed in this law.
Article 32. Buddhist teaples shall be construed to be
temples registered in the Deteiled Ledger of Buddhist Temples
at the time of enforcement of this law, the establishment of
which is permitted in accordance with the provisions of this
law.
Churches shall be construed to be churches existing at
the time of enforcement of this law which are juridical per-
sons, and the organization of which is permitted in accordance
with the provisions of this law.
The temples and churches mentioned in the preceding
paragraphs must determine their regulations within two
years after the enforcement of this law and obtain therefor
agreement of the representatives, consent of the superintend-
ing priests, and the approval of the prefectural governor,
Separate provisions may be made by order for temples and
ohurohes

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
churches whose regulations have not yet been given approval.
When the regulations of temples or churches are given
the approval prescribed in the preceding peragraph, the
prefectural governor shall entrust their registration to the
registry office, in accordance with the provisions of an Im-
perial ordinance.
Article 33. Parish churches, shrines, meeting halls,
preaching halls, or lecture halls, which were permitted to
be established as such prior to the enforcement of this law,
and which actually exist at the time of enforcement of this
law, shall be regarded as churches, not juridical persons,
the establishment of which is nermitted under this law.
The provisions of par graph 2 of the preceding article
shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the churches mentioned
in the preceding paragraph.
Article 34. Persons who preside over, or represent,
temples or churches prescribed in article 32, paragraph 1, or
in paragraph 1 of the preceding article, and who are holding
office at the time of enforcement of this law, shall be con-
strued to be chief priests or responsible heads of churches
authorized under this law. Representatives of supporters or
believers of temples or churches, who are actually holding
their respective offices at the time of enforcement of this
law, shell be construed to be representatives authorized under
this law.
Article 35. Buddhist temples which are registered at
the time of enforcement of this law in the Detailed Ledger of
Buddhist Temples may, in accordance with the provisions of an
Imperial ordinance, afriliate themselves with other temples
or become Buddhist temples or churches within two years after
tho

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
the enforcement of this law.
The disposition of temples or churches which do not affi-
liate themselves with other temples or churches, or which do
not become temples or churches, shall be determined by Imperial
ordinance.
Buddhist tmples mentioned in the preceding paragraph
which neither affiliate themselves with other temples nor
become temples or churches shall be dealt with within two
years after the enforcement of this law in accordance with
previous prectice.
Article 36. Representatives of religious societies which
are already in existence at the time of enforcement of this law,
must determine regulations of their respective religious or-
ganizations and file them, within l4 days after the enforcement
of this law, with the prefectural governor.
When the report prescribed in the preceding paragraph is
not made or when a false report is made, the representative
of a religious society mentioned in the preceding paragraph
shall be made to pay a fine of not more than three hundred yen.
Article 37. In article 2 and article 3, section 2, of
the Registration Tax Law, the words, "temples, Shinto sanotuaries,
and Buddhist halls" shall be revised to read "religious organi-
zations which are juridical persons".
In the provisory clause of article l9 of the same law,
the words "(8) to (9), 4" shall be revised to read "(2), 2,
and (8) to (9), 4", and (2) of the same article shall be re-
vised to read as follows:
(2). Registration of grounds of shrines
(2),2. Registration of grounds of Buddhist temples or
of churohes, or of buildings used by Buddhist temples
or churches.
(2),

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
(2), 3. Registration of cemeteries.
The revised provisions of the preceding two paragraphs
shall not be applied to the registration of real estate of
Buddhist halls falling under article 35, paragraph 1, whioh have
not afriliated themselves with Buddhist temples, or whioh have
not become Buddhist temples or churches. Such registration
shall be carried out within two years after the enforoement
of this law in accordance with previous practice, irrespective
of the revised provisions of the preceding two paragraphs.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.92)
RESTRICTED
192
Division
=2636-7
FAR EASTERAFFAIRS
0-2 REPORT
141939
Department of State
JAPAN (POPULATION ND SOCIAL CONDITIONS
subjoot: hyllsion.
894.404
Rellsloue urxunizations Law.
1. The Roliglous Organizations Law, passed by the last
Diet and enroreed from April 1, 1939, cod1fies the legal
states, privileges, and rosponsitilities or religiows
orgamisatioms without any radi cal alteration of their
prosent position.
2. The following paragraphe give the sist or 1ts prinoipal
provisioms, with particular referance to its effect on
roreign religious aotivities in Japen.
. Christiamity is specifically mentioned and is
recogmised  a jor religion, a olassiricution whicn
is valid only if acoount is taken not only of numbers
tut also of the relative influenoe wielded by its native
adherents and the importance of the link with the
dominant rell lon of the estern world.
D. keligious bodies ure classified as "religious
Organizations" and "religious societies", the latter
imeluding all the cults or quesi-religious sroups
whioh are not considered wortny of formal reoognition.
"Religious organizations" re further olassiried
as follows:
(1)
Shimto sects.
(2)
Buddhlst seots.
(3)
Christian seots, ad siscellaneo w other
seets or religions.
{3}
Temples (Budahist).
Churones (shinto, Christian, and others).
The last two are in the sense of individual oon-
gregatioms or parishes, pence constituent purts of
organisations of the firet three alasses.
2. Establisnmnt of a religious organization requires
arricial rec∞gnitiom, b the State Winister coneermed,
ln the case of sects or religions, or by the losel
govermor in the case of ongregations. Recogmition is
ascorded oaly arter a suitable time has elpesed fsom
the fouading of the orgamization, when it has besome
upen proef of usefulness to society and the nattpag
Upon recepgaition, ral igious organizations ajoy the
Following privileges:
JU
2
Exemptien frem imom tazes.
Eremption from real estate, leeal, and 1zeeme
taxes, d registrubien fees, builai
grounds within chureh premises.
From: M/à, Tokyo.
Repert No. 9819
Jme 19, 1999
RESTRICTED

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Perseoution of Christian workers.
meleses portions of letter from H. W. Hubbard,
dated Jume 28 and letter from American
Consul at Nanking dated May 16, oiting instances of-.
aa
894.404/22
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
despatoh # 2151
(Deepaloh, telegram, lastraotiom, letter, eto.)
From China (Smyth)
Dated July 12, 1989
To
893.1163/913
File No.
U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OPPICE 1—1840
