894.796 Other Means Of Communication And Transportation. Carrier Pigeons., Japan, Aerial Navigation. Immunities Of Government-Controlled. Subsidies., June 27, 1945 - June 19, 1949 (File 1730)
ID: 894.796-1730   Pages: 150   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.796-other-means-of-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.87)
In reply refur to
A-C
My der Mr. Hertshorne:
Che Stato- r-H vy Coordin ting Comeittce has re
urtd uhe  tot I rtt to ro ure apera on
894.796/6
United tutes  licy con rd J unese civil aviation and
the J mess urotm utical industry.
The t te Do crteont ould appruciate the asuiat
unee oi the F r  turn Division or the hcscarch and
Anclysis uranch in the pre uration of these papers. A
orief stt at of ro-rer Jepunese comcerclal and
rivato sviati n end  discusslor of  os ible metods
of utorcins United tates policy tosard Japanese civil
uviution, unt  trics iscuaion of the lan f the
2745
Jupans roiutic 1 inaustry in the Ju anose and Par
st rn cis, al of rocecures for carryin out
United  t tus ulicy ith ruspect to the industry will
both b uir ut  ist nee. I b li v that uch of
this rounu Is oins covered by R and A in the propare
tisn of ti CaD Guide on r Iitustrius. The dats are
necded Defore July l6, les.
If  rets c  uer . rtin
cunrovide  Liwin ry t t  nt os Unitod states
policy ic. ill urve us  Duis for the clscussion
of sibl uns for foreing it.
CS/
This i th ri st s rles of pers to be pre
pared ln com etion it. te Foruul tion of ur oconomic
pulicy ton rd Ju n in u o t-hostilitlus eriod on
C
hicn I hoo the st to Do rtmunt way bo uble to seoure
the usuiut nce or uhe Office of Stratugic survices. I
gre tly appr ciatu tie uttltude of com luto cooperution
hich
894.796
Mr. Ricmrd Hmrtanorne,
Amprstmnt Tpior In Churge of Rescarch,
DCF - NE Unit
Rerhmd ysia ch
na
oice of tr tegic servicos
Mon 25, D. C.
2
EC
45

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.89)
- 2 -
whiah Mr. Fahs and his staff huve shown in preliminary
disousslons in connection with this program. Only by
such full-hearted coo eration between the ageneies with
personnel working on Ja anese econonie questions can we
hope to formulete a soundly based United States poliey.
Sincerely yours,
ur  son
Luuty to the Assistant ccretary
For conomic Arf.irs
N28
3/5/6

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
.5855
PREPARING OFFICE
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHE
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Dpartftent of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department: X
RESTRICTED
Washington
MAR 2 1 1946
Charge to
2/
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
TOKYO (JAPAN).
FOR ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER.
894.796/3-2146
DEPT receiving reports re applications made to
military Govt in Japan for permission to operate air
transport services. Ascertain present status such
o4
applications and basic policy being followed in con-
20
nection operation air transport services by civilians
both within Japan and to and from Japan. Advise
DEPT by cable.
Bymes
CS/LF
DOR NE Un
gww
RESTRICTED
AV:JOBell:MF
3-20-46
DIV.SION
2

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
CENTRAL SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INPO:
INCOMING TELEGRAM76
Files
Central
DC/R 894.796/4-44
This Document Must Be Returned To
FE
MIU-C
FC
No paraphrase necessary.
A-C
Tokyo via War
DC/L
DC/R
RESTRICTED
Dated Apr1l 4, 1946
TRC
Rec'd 3:06 p.m., 8th
AND COMMUNICATIONB
POLICY
SECSTATE
APR 9
F
167
Apr11 4
vith roferonce to Dept's 212
TkC
received March 22 that:
46
AV
SD
(1) No requosts for pernission to oporate commerclal
D
alrline servicos within or to and from Japen have been
reccived;
(2) This headquartors would rofer any requeats which
might be received from companies other than Japanese to
higher authority Por docision:
(3) Jepanese cre not alloved to operate eiroraft
under eny circumatances;
(4) Militery air transport service is being used
within and to and from Japan to meet needs occupation
forces.
BISHOP
MSF
RESTRICTED
894.796/4-446
ADD
91946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY: THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R WITH NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT DETACH FROI WHITE COPY
RECORD
COPY
THE ATTACHED :HITE COPY OF A TELEGRAM
OR AIRGRAM HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECCRD COPY
FILE
TO REPLACE THE YELLO .CTION CCPY  HICH WAS NOT
RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY THE ACTION
NO.894.796/4-446
OFFICE.
THE COPY LIUST BE RETURNED TC DC/R FOR
FILLNG.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
INFORMATION
DIVISION OF
COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACTHONETRUANCH
INFO:
FE
MHU-C
INCOMING TELEGRA76
FC
No poraphrase necessary.
Tokyo via War
A-C
DC/L
Dated Apr1l 4, 1946
RESTRICTED99
DC/R
Rec'd 3:06 p.m., 8th
SECSTATE
167, Apr1l 4
We are informed by SCAp with reference to Dept's 212
×h 140 00119 c(g)
received March 22 that:
811.74694
21
(1) No requests for permission to operate commercial
airline services within or to and from Japan have been
received;
(2) This headquarters would refer any requests which
might be received from companies other than Japenese to
higher authority for decision;
(3) Japenese are not allowed to operate aircraft
under any circumstances;
(4) Military sir transport service is being used
within and to end from Japan to meet needs occupation
Porces.
BISHOP
MJF
RESTRICTED
894.796
4-446
DOR
Hw.
NE Unit
1#1

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.93)
STI YOARD FORM NO.4
1ner. Thr
T6.J
DATE: May 1, 1946
A-H Mr. Gross
TO
2
FROM
Suggested Procedure Concerning the Matter Raised in Mr. Whitman's
SUBJECT:
Memorandum. Attached Hereto.
Mr. Cramer and I discussed the suggestion made by Mr. Whitman
and have concluded the following.
It is unlikely that the Air Coordinating Committee would
act as a working group for SWNCc in the preparation of a paper
9
on this subject. The ACC is an interdepartmental committee
on the same level as SWNCC.
5-1546
On policy matters involving civil aviation the views of
the ACC almost invariably must be obtained. The ACC is made up
of representatives of the Civil Aeronautics Board, the Post Office,
the Department of Commerce, and the War, Navy and State Depart-
ments.
It is suggested in this case that State prepare a proposed
policy paper on civil aviation in Japan. That paper should
then be transmitted to the ACC for its views. The ACC will then
return the paper to State and State will submit the paper which
will then have been coordinated with ACC, to the Directorate.
The decision can be made when the paper is received by the
Directorate as to whether it is a matter that should go before
SHNCC or whether any further coordination that may be necessary
can be accomplished through the Directorate.
wth
Attachment:
Memorandum of May 15
from JK - Mr. Whitman to
A-H Mr. Gross.
get forth atove and will submit the State paper, on which
the A.C. c.
A-H:HJHeneman;hjh
H.J.H. 27may 1946.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
TO
: A-H - Mr. Gross
DATE: May 15, 1946
FROM : JK - Mr. Whitman
SUBJECT: U.S. Policy on Civil Aviation in Japan
Last fall a SWNCC paper on the above subject was initiated
by the State Department and received consideration by the Air
Coordinating Committee, the CAB, the JCS, and the JCAS, and was
forwarded to SCAP for comments. SCAP put into effect many of
the conclusions of the paper and it was dropped. It is now
necessary to take it up again particularly since Pan-Am fligts
have been scheduled into Japan in the near future.
In order to reduce the number of bodies that must consider
a new paper now being prepared by the State Department, I suggest
you explore the idea of having the Air Coordinating Committee
act as the working group for SWNCC on this matter. This would
have the advantage of eliminating at least one and possibly
two steps. If you consider this feasible from a SWNCC point of
view, State Department will find out from the Air Coordinating
Committee its willingness to proceed in such a fashion.
1
JK:RHWhitman:lmc

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
6819
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department: X
RESTRICTED
Washington
Charge 10
MAY 23 1946
SCAP,
6fin
TOKYO.
894.796/5-2346
24
INFO WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR POLIT ICAL ADVISER
Press story here states QUOTE General MacArthur Has
Approved a Plan to reorganize Japanese airline network
with U.S. management and proposition is being given
consideration by financial interests in this country.
UNQUOTE
WAR not informed of any such developments.
Advise DEPT any info you can obtain on this subject.
CS/VJ
Byrnas
gow
894.796/
AV:JOB11:HMK
5-21-46
A-
5-2346
RESTRICTED
23 1016F
MAY

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
TO
: A-H - Mr. Gross
DATE: May 15, 1946
FROM : JK - Mr. Whitman
SUBJECT: U.S. Policy on Civil Aviation in Japan
Last fall a SWNCC paper on the above subject was initiated
by the State Department and received consideration by the Air
Coordinating Committee, the CAB, the JCS, and the JCAS, and was
forwarded to SCAP for comments. SCAP put into effect many of
the conclusions of the paper and it was dropped. It is now
necessary to take it up again particularly since Pan-Am fligts
have been scheduled into Japan in the near future.
In order to reduce the number of bodies that must consider
a new paper now being prepared by the State Department, I suggest
you explore the idea of having the Air Coordinating Committee
act as the working group for SWNCC on this matter. This would
have the advantage of eliminating at least one and possibly
two steps. If you consider this feasible from a SWNCC point of
view, State Department will find out from the Air Coordinating
Committee its willingness to proceed in such a fashion.
JK:RHWhitman:lmc

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH RANCH
File
ÁCTION: TRO
INCOMING TELEGRAM
INFO:
A-H
6-5-46
A-G
MES -C-N
10144
FE
No paraphrase neccssary.
DG/L
Tokyo via War
ITP
FC
SECRET
Rec'd. May 28, 1946
DC/R
AJIATION
4:03 p.m.
1946
From:
CINCAFPAC TokyO
To:
Wer Department for State Department
Nr:
C 61418
27 May 1946
894.796/5-2746
Story :s incorrect. No plans to this effect
pre under cons'dorstion at this Hq. It is believed
that commercia ir lines may be considering such
plans but noth:ng concrete has as yet materialized.
END
ACTION: G-2 (S )
INFO:
CG AAF
OPD
CM-IN-6005
(27 May 46)
DTG 2711532 18
SECREP
Confidential
JUN 5 1946
FILED
LRC
E
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
TISCOPY MUST E RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES
ATH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
COX, LANGFORD, STODDARD & CUTLER
OSCAR COX
1210 1BTH STREET, N.W.
MALCOLM S.LANGFORD
WASHINGTON 6. D.C.
EZEKIEL G. STODDARD
TELEPHONE EXECUTIVE GOOO
DC/R
LLOYD N.CUTLER
CABLE ADDRESS"OSCARCOX"
May 29, 1946
JUN 7 1946
GENERAL HILLOING
Dear Gen. Hilldring:
I am enclosing a copy of a letter addressed
394.796/5-2946
to Mr. Stuart Symington by Asia Airways, Inc., a client
of ours which has been organized by some young ex-AAF
officers.
As you will note from the letter, they would
very much like to know the proper forum to which they
should address their application for permission to
operate a commercial airline between points in Japan.
m
I would appreciate anything your office can
do to clear up the problems raised in their letter,
particularly such information as you may feel free to
give upon the kind of policy decision which the Government
has made or will soon make as to the advisability of
granting such applications.
Sincerely yours,
Docar lox
CS/V
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
Enclosure
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTFYT OF TATE
fale
The Honorable John H. Hilldring
11153
Reply ded 
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
01946
id
5-2946
1

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.91)
May 27, 1948
The Menorable Stuart Symingten
Assistant Seeretary of War for Air
Pentagen Railding
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Symington:
In a letter dated 27 December 194s and addressed to the Sapeeme
Commaader for the Allied Pewers in Tokyo, an waineerpeated greny ef Waited
States eltimens kaewn as the Far Mast Air Treaspert Gempany, Clevelend,
Ohio, epplied for permission to eperate a esmmerelal airlime withán the
main 1elasds of Japan, and requested a frenchise frem the Sapreme Gammmder.
On the same day, the djutant Gemeral, 3uap, retarmed a signed copy ef
this applieatien sekmewledging its reseipt. Oa Marek 16, 194s, amsther
Letter was sent to the Sapreme Comamder for the Allied Posers, refessing to
the earlier applieation and stating that the merieen grouy theretefere kmemm
as the Far East Air Trensport Company ad imeerperated as a Delamase
corporation, under the mame of Asia Airways, Ime. On April 29, 196s, the
Adjutant Gemeral, s0aP, replied, sekmowledging the Marek 16 letter and
stating that further cemmmications on the mbjeet should be aédressed to
the War Depertment. Copies of all these esmmunications are atteahed.
All of the isseed eapital stoek of lsie Airways, Ime. la emed by
eitisens of the Uaited States. The Corporation bas ressived firm essarasse
of adequate fimaneing from Allen & Company, New Yerk, Mew York, amd the
Iavestment Corporation of Philadelphie, Philadelphia, Pa., emd is prepared
to furmish satisfastory evidense as to the adequacy of these fimamsial
arrangments.
We appreciate that the United States lovermmest mmy mot yet have
formulated the polioy desisioms whieh must be mmde before a spplieatien
sush as ours ean be entertaimed and passed upon. Pendins mmch a peliey
formulation, however, we would appresiate year adviee as to whom the
papers comprising our appliemtion should be direeted, and as to what
additional supperting date should be furnished. In view of the attesked
correspondenee, we would also appresiate your askmewledgment thst eur
applieation will be c∞nsidered as mving bem origimally mede on
Deeember 27, 1945.
Finally, if consistent with War Department pelley, we would like te be
advised as to whether or not aay eompeting applieations have been filed.
Sinserely yours,
ABLA AIRWAYB, INC.
Attacmments
By
Eraest J. Bilver, President

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.94)
010/R/
APO 500
29 April 1946
A0 360.7 (29 Apr 46)SS-X
SUBJECT: Acknowledgment of Correspondence.
TO
: Asia Airways, Inc., 67 Broad Street, Ne York 4, N. Y.
1. Reference your letter of 16 March 1946 and your app11-
cation of 27 December 1945 which was submitted in the name of the
Far Last Air Transport Company, please be adviaed that both doou-
ments have been forwarded to the ar Department.
2. It is recommended that future queries be directed to
that office.
FOR THE SUPRELE COLMANDER:
J. .
Lt Colonel. D
Asst Ad jutant General

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
ASIA AIRNAYS, INC.
67 Broad t.
New York 4
16 Marah 1946
General Douglas MacArthur
SCAP APO 500
San Francisco
Attention: Economic and Scientirio Section
Sir:
Reference is made to our former application to your
headquarters which was made in the name of the Far ast Air
Transport Company and which is now on file with the Bconomde
and Scientific Section of QHq.
Please be informed herewith that we are now inoorperated
in the state of Delaware as the Asia Airways, Inc. with ofrices
at 67 Broad Street, New York 4, New York. Our change in name was
occassioned by the emergence of a Far Eastern Air Transport
Company operating in the Phillipines.
He should be happy to receive any indication of your
ploasure regarding our former application.
Very truly yours,
ASI. AIRNAYS, INC.
Ernest J. Silver, Pres.
EJS/jt

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
2
FAR KAST AIR TRANSPORT COMPANY
1008 Quardiam Building
Cleveland, Onio
27 December 1945
The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
General Headquarters, SCAP,
APO No. 500
c/o Postmaster,
San Francisco, Calif.
Attention: Chief, Eeonomic and Scientirio Section
Sir:
We are forwarding herewith a prospectus for our company, the
Far East ir Transport Company, and respeotfully request that considere-
tion be given to the possibility of our operating in Japan in the near
future. The company is organized and will be operated by ex-U.S. A.A.F.
personnel who are either now in the theatre or who have hed serviee
there.
Should the request be considered too early at the present time,
it would be appreciated if this letter and prospeotus could be filed
against some future date when such applications will be in order. In
addition, we understand that it might be proper to make applicatiom
throuth the appropriate authorities in Mashington, D. C., and would
appreciate your consideration or these papers should a query come to
you from these quarters.
Some indication of your pleasure at this time would be greatly
appreciated.
Very sincerely yours,
priginal and 2 copies
Bee'd at GHQ, SCAP
 Deo. 45, 1100.
/s/ J T Hart
Krnest J. Silver, President
WOJG, USA.
Far East Air Transport Compamy

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.87)
pC/C
7194
In reply refer to
JX
My dear Nr. Coz:
This is in reply to your letter of Kay 20 regeesting
infermatiem in behalf ef your elient, Asie Airvege, Ime..
regarding the possibility ef eperating a cemmereial sirline
vithim Japam.
894.796/5-2946
Your cliemt has raised the problems of to whem appli-
catiem fer smeh operatiem should be mede md vhat standarde
and eriteria will be empleged in the selestiem ef earriers.
At the presemt time, peliey deeisiems relating te thess
problems are all in the prosess ef fermalatiem  the
varions Uaited Statee Gevermment agmeies comeeraed. Oase
United states poliey on these mattere is formalated, it will
have te be smbmitted fer cemsideratien and ultimate desisiem
by the matieme represemted ee the Par Eastera Cemmiesien.
Pending such pelicy determination and the setting up of
mashinery to isplement it, ve regret that we are mable to
give you aay more concrete saggesticas fer presedure W
your eliemt.
You may rest assared that as seen as sech peliey
decisiens are sade pablie and implememting mechinery is set
up. the Departmeat will eall yeur attestiem te the sabjest.
simeerely youre,
CE/V
S
J. I. Milldring
Assistant Seeretary
894.796
Nr. Osear Cex.
Cer, Langford, Steddard & Cutler,
121c l8th street. W. v..
1946
Washingtom 6. D. C.
RHWgHom
H.u.c.
B
JK: AMorgantmw: jd
6/6/46
aom

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
PM. Phorgaod
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
June 11, 1946
Mr. Reischauer:
Please refer the attached letter from
Mr. Oscar Cox to the Division of the State
Department which handled the previous
correspondence.
Warde M. Jameron.
Executive Assistant

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
COX, LANGFORD, STODDARD & CUTLER
OSCAR COX
1210 1BTH STREET, N.W.
MALCOLM S. LANGFORD
WASHINGTON 6, D.C.
EZEKIEL G. STODDARD
TELEPHONE EXECUTIVE GOOO
LLOYD N. CUTLER
CABLE ADDRESS"OSCARCOX"
June 10, 1946
sTARY
A-M
JUN 11 1948
GENCNAL
My dear General Hilldring:
594.746/5-7446
894.796/6-1046
Thank you for your letter of Jung 7,
in reuly to my letter of May 29 requesting
information on behalf of asia nirways, Inc.
We are grateful for the information
supplied, and for your assurance that as soon
as the governmental policy decisions on the
question are made public, the Department
will call our attention to the substance of
those decisions.
Sincerely yours,
Oocar lox
The Honorable John H. Hilldring
assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
CS/V
Hashington, D. C.
894.796/6-1046

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.95)
DEC 23 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Chief,Aviation Div.,
18 Dec.,
U.S.Dept. of State,
415 Buena Vista Ave.
Washington,
San Francisco,
D.C.
Califorria
My dear Mr. Bell:
In October I called on you in your office to discuss
vartous spects of commercial sviation in the Far East and in
correctior with Japar in particular. At that time you suggested
that I keep ir contact with your office as you might have some
894.796/12-1846
1
new irformition to report on. I am therefore writins to you to
see if you have anv iiforration concerhirg the followirs:
After the peace treaty h:s been simued with Japer,
will +he Juparese be :1lowed to cperr te inter: al comrerciaj
airlire services cf +heir cwr ? I r fully aw:re cf the present
SCAP re-ulaticrs which prohibit the Jup rese fron eneasin: ir ary
phese of sviatior whatscever. I wonderea, however, if ary ideas
as to waht the ultinate policy will be have been formulated.
If vour office is unable to ive me any informatior in
rerard to this questior, I wor der if I might ask you to refer me
to some other office that can.
Sircerely yours,
R74059
Enst .S dver
Ernest J.Silver
JAN 10 1947
FILED
CS/A
894.796
1512
112-1846

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.90)
1AN 81907
In reply refer to
AV
 dear . Silver:
Referenee is made to your letter of Deeember 18, 1946
requesting sach infermatien as migkt be available eemeeraing
the extext to whish Japamese netiemals will be permitted to
operate eemmereial air tramspert serviees witkin Japas after
the censlusion of a pesse treaty with that coumtry.
I regret to inform you that there is me infermatiem
available at this time whieh weuld help amswer your questiem.
It canmot be answered, ef course, wrtil the terms ef the pease
treaty have been determined, and susk a determimatiem is set
axtisipated in the near future. Furthermere, it sheuld be
berme in mind that the Uaited States Geverament is but ome of
in questiem. When informatiom in this cennestiom dees beseme
available, we shall be pleased to commmieate with you further,
if you so desire.
Sineerely yours,
Per the Seeretary of State:
小
Livingsten T. Merehant
Chief, Aviation Divisiom
med
. Ernest J. Silver,
415 Duena Vista Aven
Sax Framsimeo, Califernia.
Cleared co;th
learet with
mr. Emmarson
AV:EALister:VK
ere:tman
1-6-47
JA
1-6-47
JK
eax
1-6-47
eat

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.96)
auh
TO
: General Hilldping
DATB: 4/3/47
SUBJECT: SCAP Licenses for Northwest Airlines and Pan American Airways.
In the autumn of 1946·it was agreed with SCAP that Northwest Air
lines and Pan American Airways would be permitted to make survey flights
with a view to the eventuel commencement of operations to, through and
from Japen. These flights have been made and arrangements for the be-
ginning of scheduled operations by the two airlines are well along.
In CX 50743 (CM IN 1700, 11 Mar) SCAP advised that he was prepared
immediately to issue licenses to the two airways and he asked if such
issue of licenses at this time would jeopardize the U.S. position since
no approved policy or interim directive had yet been received. CX-50955
(CM IN 3212, 18 Mar) was a reminder from SCAP that the l1nenses were ur-
gently needed. War 9458l of 21 March was an interim reply.
Meanwhile, a draft policy statement with respect to the control of
civil aviation in Japan is being placed before the Air Coordinating Com-
mittee immediately for its urgent consideration. However, since it is
highly desirable that the licenses be issued in order to permit both
airlines to proceed with operational planning if they are to meet the
target date for the beginning of scheduled service in the first part
力
of May, the enclosed draft cable advises SCAP that there is no objeo
tion to the lissuance of such licenses immediately, provided scheduled
operations do not begin before either an interim or a final directive
3
has been sent to SCAP. JK considers it extremely important that before
scheduled operations begin, the U.S. policy with respect to the control
of civil aviation in Japan should be presented to the FEC.
War Department concurrence for the enclosed draft cable has been
obteined through Lt. Col. Dice, Ext. 74081, and I recommend that you
approve the cable for dispatch by the War Department.
AH1244
dice
Gwt.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
T181
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
:A-H - JK Secretariat
DATE: April 1, 1947
FROM : TRC - Mr. Radius
sUBJECT: SCAP licenses for Northwest Airlines and Pan American Airways.
In radio CX 50743 of March 10, 1947 SCAP has stated he is prepared
immediately to issue SCA licenses to Northwest and Pan American authorising
both companies to inaugurate scheduled service to, through and away from
Japan, and inquiring whether the issuance of such licenses at this time
would jeopardize the position of the United States in connection with the
preparation of a draft policy statement on control of civil aviation in
Japan.
A draft policy statement with respect to control of civil aviation
in Japan is being forwarded to the Air Coordinating Committee immediately
for its urgent consideration. Meanwhile, it is highly desirable from the
carriers' point of view, as well as being in the best interest of this
Government, that SCAP issue licenses to Northwest and Pan American in
order that both airlines may proceed with the operational planning necessary
prior to inauguration of regular scheduled service to and through Japan
approximately May 1.
Rionad WAR 94581
(4))
+c×50955)
DRAFT CABLE TO SCAP
REURADSCX 50743 Liar 10. Draft US policy re control and operation of
civil airlines to, through and from Japan going to Air Coordinating
Committee for consideration April 1. When policy adopted by ACC and
approved by JCS policy will be submitted to FEC for consideration and
approval; should there be any FEC delay an interim directive will
probably be sent pending final FEC action.
Although Northwest and Pan American are not in
position to inaugurate scheduled common carrier service
through Japan for several weeks, both companies will be
in better
A-H1 1244

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
in better position to make necessary plans and arrange-
ments if SCAP licenses for scheduled operations have been
issued. No objection therefore issuance such licenses
to Northwest and Pan American immediately on condition
that scheduled common carrier operations shall not be
inaugurated to, thrgugh or away from Japan until you have
afinal
received intorim directive covering such operations.
Text and info re effective date these licenses requested.
CONFIDENTIAL
IAL
AV:EALister:smc
JA
A-H
3/28/47
Penfuld
hyhme

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARO FORM NO. 84
TO
: A-H - Mr. Lowis
DATE: Maroh 28, 1947
FROM : AV - Mr. Listor
EAL
SUBJECT:
Attached hereto is a copy of TRC's draft
reply to SCAP radio CX 50743 of March 10. I foel
this represents a reasonable compromise between the
positions previously taken in this connection by JK
and TRC. I hope that JK will approve this draft roply
and that it will be sent to SCAP immediately.
Attachment
Draft 3/28/47

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
A-H - JK Secretariat
Marsh 28, 1947
TRC - Mr. Radius
SCAP licenses for Northwest Airlines and Pan Ameriean Airways.
In radio CX 50743 of March 10, 1947 SCAP has stated
he is prepared imnediately to issue SCAp licenses to
Northwest and Pan American authorizing both companies to
ianugurate scheduled service to, through and away from
Japan, and inquiring whether the issuance of such lieenses
at this time would jeopardize the position of the Umited
States in connection with the preparation of a draft poliey
statement on control of civil aviation in Japan.
A draft policy statement with respeet to control of
civil aviation in Japan is being forwarded to the Air
Coordinating Committee immediately for its urgont con-
sideration. Meanwhile, it is highly desirable from the
carriers' point of view, as well as being in the best
interest of this Government, that SCAP issue licenses
to Northwest and Pan American in order that both airlines
may proceed with the operational planning necessary prior
to inauguration of regular scheduled service to and through
Japan approximately May 1.
Draft Cablo to SCAP
REURAD CX 50743 Mar 10. Draft US pol1ey re control
and oporation of civil airlines to, through and from
Japan going to Air Coordinating Committee for consideration
April 1. When policy adopted by ACC and approved by JCS
it will be sent you immediately as interim direotive and
submitted to FEC for consideration and approval.
Although Northwest and Pan American are not in
position to inaugurate scheduled common carrier service
through Japan for soveral weeks, both companies will be
in better

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
in better position to make necessary plans and arrange-
ments if SCAP licenses for scheduled operations have been
issued. No objection therefore issuance such licenses
to Northwest and Pan American immediately on condition
that scheduled common carrier operations shall not be
inaugurated to, through or away from Japan until you have
received interim directive covering such operations.
Text and info re effective date these licenses requested.
CONFIDENTIAL
AV:EALister:smo
JK
JA
A-H
3/28/47

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
WAR DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CONFIDENTIAL
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED. HANDIE AS CONFIDENTIAL
CORRESPONDENCE PER PARAS 511 and 60a (4), AR 380-5
Civil Affairs Division
311.23 CAD
Lt Col Dice, 74081
21 March 1947
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
Nr: WAR 94581
From WDSCA GO. Reurads Mar CX 50743 and Mar CX 50955.
Urgoncy of matter recognized here. Reply will be
dispatched soonest. Northwest Airlines here being kept
informed.
End
Note: CX 50743 1s CM IN 1700 (11 Mar 47)
CX 50955 18 CM IN 3212 (18 Mar 47)
ORIGINATOR : CAD
DISTRIBUTION : AAF, ASW, CAD (Stato), JCS (Cmdr M1llett),
P&O, ASWA, SWNCC
CM-OUT 94581
(Mc 47) DTG 212252Z
ags
60 U.8.0.. 31 
19
athe 
38.
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF TI S MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
TO: A-H
COPY
NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC.
Executive Offices
St. Paul Municipal Airport
Saint Paul, Minnesota
March 19, 1947
SECRETARY
Mr. Ernest Lister
ASSISTANT
A-H
Aviation Division
State Department
MAR 27 1947
Washington, D. C.
GENERAL HILLDRING
Dear Mr. Lister:
Pursuant to our conversation of today, please be
advised that it is our proposed plan to operate seheduled
commercial service, starting on or about May 1, 1947,
between the United States, Japan, Korea, China and the
Philippine Islands as foliows:
1. DC-4 flights between Tokyo, Anchorage and the
United States one (1) round trip dally.
2.
DC-4 flights between Man1la, Shangha1, and
Tokyo three (3) round trips weekly.
3.
DC-3 flights between Tokyo and Seoul via
Fukuoka (fuel stop) four (4) round trips weekly.
4.
DC-3 flights between Seoul and Shangha1 three (3)
round trips weekly, which together with the above
service will give Seoul daily international
service.
The frequency of the above service will, of course
be increased to meet the traffic demands. It is also con-
templated that if Mukden can be added to the Bilateral Air
Transport Agreement between China and the United States
three (?) round trips weekly, with DC-3 airplanes, will
be inaugurated between the points Mukden and Tokyo via
Seoul with such increase in frequency as may be required.
Very truly yours,
NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC.
By D. J. KING
D. J. King
Vice President - Oriental Region

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.95)
WAR DEPARTME
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
RESTRICTED TOT
PRIORITY
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED. HANDLE AS RESTRICTED CORRESPONDB
PER PARAS 511 and 60s (4), AR 380-5.
From:
SCAP, Tokyo, Japan
To:
War Department for WDSCA GO
Info:
COMGENPEAF, Tokyo, Japan
18 March 1947
Nr:
CX 50955
Northwest Airlines officials here desire commence
operations May. In view of short time reply to ourad
CX 50743 of 10 March urgent1y needed here.
End
Note: CX-507:3 1a CM IN 1700 (11 Mar 47) CAD
ACTION: CAD
INFO : AAF, CAD(State), JCS(Cmdr M1llett), P&O, ASW/A, SWNCC
(18 Mar 47)
DTG
181335Zre1
CM IN 3212
This desumest
mnta  the pioua at n "
58. Its trememission or:
sontemts is en
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.91)
WAR NIPARTIONNS
INCOHING CLASSIFIED MESSAOS
CONFIDENTIAL
PRIORITY
From: SCAP Tokyo Japan
To:
War Departmont for WDsCa GO
Imfo:
COMGENFEAF TokYO Japan
Nr8
CX 50743
10 March 1949
Prepared to issse immediately SCaP lisease to Nerthvest Airlimes
and Pan Anerican Airways anthorising sehedaled eperatiens te, threach
and from Japan in accordance with poliey eentaimed in eured cxseles ef
14th November 1946. keurad W 87751 maither approved Us peliey mer im
terim directive referred to therein received here as yet. will assme
of licenses at this time jeopardise United States posisiem!
NOTE: CX 66168 1  IN 2791 (14 0ct) CAD
CM IN 1700
(11 Mar 47)

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
706
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: A-H - JK Secretariat
DATE: March 14, 1947
FROM : JK - Lr. Martin
SUBJECT:
Licenses for Northwest Airlines and Pan American Airlines to Operate
Scheduled Flights from Tokyo.
SCAP has cabled inquiring whether he may issue licenses to Northwest
Airlines and Pan American Airlines to begin scheduled flights into and
from Japan. A policy paper is in process for submittal to SWNCC and FEC.
Until the policy has been adopted by FEC it is believed unwise to
authorize SCAP to grant licanses, although upon adoption of a policy by
SiNCC it may be decided that an interim direct is appropriate.
DRAFT CABLE TO SCAP
Reurad CX 50743 March. Policy in formulation and should be trans-
mitted to FEC shortly for action. Pending receipt of policy or interim
directive you should not issue licenses.
JK:DOBowman:bcb
AV
NA
A-H
3/14/47
CX 50743 is CM-IN 1700 - 11 March
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
nill
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
: General Hilldring
DATE: Mar. 26, 1947
qwh
FROM : Mr. Lewis
SUBJECT: Memorandum from Mr. Garrison Norton - TRC.
The enclosed memorandum from Mr. Norton requests your preliminary
views on a draft statement of policy with respect to control of civil
aviation in Japan. Mr. Norton is attempting to secure the firmest pos-
sible position of the State Department prior to the consideration of
this paper by the Economic Division of the Air Coordinating Committee.
important
The conclusions of the policy statement are:
1. Japanese nationels should not be permitted to engage in
11
flight operations curing the period of occupation, but may be 
ployed with the approval of Scap in meintenance and ground opera-
tions.
2. It is uncesirable and impractical to develop within Ja
pan any separate air transport operated by Japanese or non-Japan-
ese.
3. Air carriers of nations participating in the occupation
of Japan may be authorized by SCAP to operate into and through
Japan and may carry traffic between points within Japan which lie
on their international routes. Air lines of non-occupying powers
心
may be permitted to transit Japan and, if occupational objectives
would be benefited thereby, may be allowed to pick up and discharge
h
international traffic in Japan.
4. Internal air transport required for the purposes of occu-
pation in excess of that proviced by international air lines should
be operated by the military or by civil carriers under contract to
the military.
This policy statement has been approved by JK. It will be sent
for comment to General MacArthur by the military member of the Air Co-
ordinating Committee before it is finally apyroved by ACC. After ap-
proval by ACC it would be sent to JCS and SWNCC for approval and for
presentation to FEC. It is contemplated that an interim directive
might be sent to General MacArthur in view of the urgency of the prob-
lem without waiting for final FEC approval.
I recommend that you sign the attached memorandum to Mr. Norton.
AB-830

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.95)
TO : TRC - Mr. Garrison Norton
DATE: March 26, 1947
FROM : H - General Hilldring
SUBJECT: Civil Aviation in Japen.
I have received your memorandum of March 20 in which
you request my preliminary views concerning the draft state-
ment of policy with respect to control of civil aviation in
Japan. In my opinion this statement is entirely satisfac-
tory. I agree with you that a firn policy decision on this
matter should be reached here in Washington at the earliest
possible date.
3/27/47
note:
This not sugned g sent.
Listu (Av) adrised that A.H
had no objechion to pohis
Slalement
gwhenis

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
. Office Memorandum · UnItED
STATES GOVERNMENT
MAR 241947
SECRET
GENERAL HILLDRING
TO
: A-H/ General Hilldring
FROM : TRC/Mr. Norton
SUBJECT:
Attached is a draft statement of policy with
respect to control of civil aviation in Japan which
the Department has transmitted to the Air Coordinating
Committee for its urgent consideration and decision.
This statement does not, of course, necessarily represent
a firm position of the Department at this time.
8
It is anticipated that this paper will be considered
b
by the ACC's Economic Division on Tuesday, April 1. For
this reason I would greatly appreciate receiving your
preliminary views in this connection by Friday, March 28,
7
in order that our member of the Economic Division may
b
present the firmest possible position of the Department
at that time. Redrafts of the paper will be forwarded to
you for comment as they become available. It should be
possible for this paper, with some possible amendments,
3-2047
to receive final action by the Acc at an early date in
view of its similarity in major respects to ACc 11/24.2
(United States Policy re Civil Aviation in Germany) which
was approved by the ACC March 13. A copy of that docu-
ment is attached for ease of reference.
For your information in this connection, there is
also attached a copy of a memorandum which I addressed
to your office on March 18 that points out the urgency
of this matter.
Qai Na
Attachments:
1. Draft Policy Statement
2. ACC 11/24.2
3. Copy of Memorandum re
SCAP licenses for Northwest
Airlines and Pan American
Airways, dated March 18, 1947.
EAL 3892
AV:EALister:smc
greer
SECRET

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Presented by
March 17; 1947
Executive Secretary
ACC 11/24.2
FINAL ACTION
Title: Aviaticn in Eurepean Occupicd Countries--U.S. Pelicy Re Civil
aviation in Germany-nction of the aCC.
Refcrencs: Itcm #3 - Minutes of ACC Mecting of March 13, 1947 - action
on ACC 11/24.1
PROBLEM
To establish United States policy with respect to civil aviation in
Germany for the periods cf zcnal cccupation and occupation as a whole.
DISCUSSION
The Statement of Policy contained in this paper has been prepared
with specific reference to the necessity for immediate definitive guidance
to the euthorities concerned with the control of the United States Zone of
Germany. The effort has heen made, however, so far as practicable to re-
late the study to the civil aviation problems which will arise during the
periods of zonal occuation and occupation as a whole. The conclusions and
recommendations reached by the paper do not necessarily apply to the post
occupation period for which supplementary statements of pclicy will have to
be developed. The paper will be regarded as the continuing position of this
Government vith respect to civil aviation in Germany until appropriately
changed.
This Government's present policy toward Gormany has two fundamental
objectives:
1. To prevent Germany fron ever again beconing a threat to the
peace or the world.
2.
To assist Germany to recover to a peint where she can con-
tribute to the eccnomic stability of Europe.
As applicd to civil aviaticn these objectives require the adoption of
measures which will prevent th resurgenee in Germany of a military avia-
tion potential, without barring the establishment of such minimum civil
air services as may be essential to the economic revival of Germany and
Europe.
Sucurity considerations demand the exclusion of German personnel from
participation in aviation activities during the pericd cf the occupation
in order that a nucleus of trained flight crews, technicians, and super-
viscry personnel may not be created, which could be readily converted
at the termination of the occupation into a military air force. For
similar reasons, the develcpment of German airports, navigational and
radic comaunication systems, and cther aviation facilities which might
pass as a legacy to the Germans at the clcse of the occupation, must be
restricted to the minimun required for safe and efficient operation of
such air transpcrt services as are deemed essential. For the above
SECRET

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
ACC 11/24.2
p. 2
reasons. it is particularly undesirable at this time to permit extensive
development of a centralized air transport system within Germany, in the
absence of ccmpelling eccncmic need.
Apart from the military and administrative needs of the occupying
forces, no justification for an internal air transport system has been
demonstrated which would override the security and pclitical considera-
tions involved. The pre-war record of the German commercial air transport
industry reveals that its operation resulted in continuous substantial
losses which were offset only by heavy gcvernment subsidy. It is now
recognized that operations of Lufthansa were maintained primarily in
order to familarize personnel with routes and equinment to be used in war.
Security objections are less aprlicable to the establishment of in-
ternational civil air services on trunk routes through Germany, since such
services, limited to the major cities, would involve relatively minor de-
velopment of German air fields and facilities, and the air lines themselves
would not rass into cerman control at the conclusion of the cccupation.
Moreover, it is reccgnized that international commerce, and in particular
the requirements of the Eurcpean economy, necessitate the opening of air
routes across Germany, in view of her central geographic position and
economic impcrtance. Permission to international air lines to establish
these through services should he related so far as is practicable to the
needs of international trade and commerce, convenionce of long-haul
operations and existence cf adequate facilities. Permission shculd be
granted only to air lines cf occupying pcwers or (during the period of
zonal occupation) to air lines of countries witn which the United States
has satisfactory aviation relaticnships, or (during the period cf cccu-
pation as a whole) to air lines of cther ccuntries as may be agreed by
the occupation authorities.
Econcmic necessity and the needs f the occupaticn shculd govern the
extent of internal service which will be permitted alcng through routes.
Such service, of course, wculd be incidental to the main line operations.
The cstablishment of feeder systems, which would require develooment of
additional airports and extended installation of technical facilities, is
considered undesirable on the security grounds discussed above.
Where, for the purposes of the cccupation, internal air service is
required which cannot be supplied ccnvenieitly by traffic stops authorized
on the international rcutes, such service should be operated only by
military transport or by civil carriers under contract with the cccupation
authorities until the need fcr the service terminates. At thet time, the
installations required fcr this service shculd be withdrawn inscfar as
such withdrawal is then regarded as technically feasible and politically
desirable.
The maintenance and operation of all aviaticn facilities should be
the responsibility of the occupation authorities. During the zonal period
every effort should be made tc achieve uniformity on the basis of PICAo
standards by coordination among the Zones.
SECPE

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
ACC 11/24.2
p. 3
Uniformity throughout the world in air traffic rules, technical
regulations, and in the provision, maintenance and operation of aviation
facilities, is a major objective of this Government's civil aviation
policy. Every effort should be made to ensure that PICAo standards are
adhered to in all areas of Germany. It is essential that early action
be taken in this regard to achieve substantial coordination between Zones
during the zcnal period in order to facilitate transition to the period
of occupaticn as a whole.
The limited prcgram outlined above envisages the minimum civil
aviation ostarlishment required for occupational needs, and for basic
econ mic rchabilitation and, althcugh financed in the first instance by
the occupying powers, shouli be charged against the German cconomy. The
expenditures shculd be effset in as large measure as practicable, however,
ty the ccllection from commercial carriers of ap ropriate fees fer the use
of the facilities prcvided.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, it is concluded that ACc should adopt
the following Statement of Polioy:
1. German participation in avintion activities. During the puriod
of occupation, German nationals should nct be allowed to engage in avia-
tion activities. However, during the zonal puricd, German nationals may
be utilized in such cccupations, incidental tc the op ration of aviation
facilitics, as may be classified by the JCs as "nin-aviation activities".
During the period of occupation of Germany as a whcle such nationals may
be utilized in cccunations agrced upon by the occupying pcwers as "non-
aviation activities" or as may be agre d are nct likely to enhance German
war pctential.
2. Internal Air Transncrt Service. On the tasis of facts submitted,
it is regarded as plitically undesirable and economically impractical at
this time to dev lon within Germany any separate air transport enterprise
operated by Germuans or by non-Germans, except as provided in paratraph 4
hereef. upon rece:pt of contrary edvices, the Lutter will be reopened for
further considuraticn by the A.
3. International service through Gormy
a. by airl nes cf cccupying pis
During the period of zonal cccuyution, airlires designated by
any occupying power shoald be permittei to cnerate cver routes between
its homeland pnd te rore cd to ceoe  rver  sor.s by agreement
with the cccupying piwer concerned. Uner similar ugrcement such a
power should lo permicsei to tly over zones other thn tta own lying
across internationel routes from its homeland to other countries.
SEORET

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
ACC 11/24.2
p. 4
During the period of occupation of Germany as a whole, air trans-
port operations cf the occupying powers should be permitted into, through
and away from Germany, and within Germany along their respective interna-
tional routes. The extent of these operations should be determined by
multilateral agreement among the occupying powers.
b. by airlines of other powers.
During the zonal period, air transpcrt services of U. N. member
states with which the U. S. has satisfactory aviation relations, shculd
be permitted to transit the U. S. Zone and to make technical stops therein,
enroute to other countries when such transit and stops are necessary to
efficient and direct route operation. The right to a technical stop
granted on this basis may be expanded upon request to include, in the
light of occupational objectives and ccnsistent with international avia-
tion agreements, a right tc pick up and discharge traffic. The right to
operate services between the territory of a non-occupying power and a
terminal in Gernany may alsc be permitted if necessary for the economy cf
that power and consistent with the needs of the occupying powers.
Rights based upon the foregoing principles shculd be granted with
respect to Germany as a whole, by multilateral agreement between the con-
trol pcwers.
4. Administrative transport for ccupational needs. Minimum internal
and external service additional to that prcvidea by the internaticnal civil
routes, which in the opinion cf the occupation authorities is required for
the purposes of the occupation, should te operated only by military air
transport or by civil carriers under contract tc the occupation authorities.
At such time as the need for this service terminates, the installations
required to maintain it should be withdrawn, if such acticn is then regarded
as feasible and desirable.
5. Aviation facilities. During the period of zonal occupation, the
occupation authorities should contral and be resnonsible for the installa-
tion, maintenance and operation of all aviation facilities necessary to
meet PICAo standards and U. S. requirements for the operations permitted.
Any use of these facilities by other than the occupying forces should be
subject to appropriate fees. During the pericd of occupation of Germany
as a whole, a central agency of the occunation fcrces should maintain and
operate such facilitics as are required with like prcvision for leying
fees.
6. Technical regulations. During the zonal period, each zone com-
mander should establish and enforce rules of the air, which should be in
conformity with PICAo standards. Every effort should be made to achieve
uniformity and cocrdination of practice between the several zones. During
the period of occupation of Germany as a whole, the central agency, envisaged
in paragraph 5 above, shculd be charged with the establishment and enforce-
ment of civil air regulations which should correspond to PICao standards.
SECRET

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
ACC 11//24.2.
P. 5
RECOMMENDATIONS
It is recommended that the Air Coordinating Committee:
a. approve the Statement of Policy set forth above;
b. recommend to the agencies concerned that directives incon
sistent with the abcve Statement of Policy be annropriately amended
and that new directives required for its implementation be drafted
and forwarded to their officials ccncerned;
c. request the Joint Chiefs of Staff, if they have no objection
from a military pcint of view, to transmit this paper to the Com-
manding General, Unitod States Forces Eurcpean Theater for his
Suidance and appropriate action.
d. request the Joint Chiefs of Staff. as a matter of priority.
to classify those "non-avintion activities" in which Germans may
be employed and submit them to the Air Ccordinating Committee for
comment before issuance.
Distribution:
Genoral
Eccncmic Divisicn
Subccmmittce or. arca Aviation Pclicy
SECRET

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
March 18, 1947
A-H - JK Secretariat
TRC - Mr. Norton
SCAP licenses for Northwest Airlines and Pan American Airways
to operate scheduled flights to and through Japan.
In radio CX 50743 of March 10, 1947 SCAP has stated
he is prepared immediately to issue SCAP licenses to
Northwest and Pan American authorising both companies te
inaugurate scheduled service to, through and away from
Japan, and inquiring whether the issuance of such lieenses
at this time would jeopardize the position of the United
States in connection with the preparation of a draft poliey
statement on control of civil aviation in Japan.
This problem has been discussed with Northwest and
Pan American, both of whom have emphasized the necessity
of obtaining such licenses at the earliest possible moment
in order that they may make necessary plans with respeet
to obtaining facilities, hiring personnel and entering into
contracts with civilian and military entities. It has also
been discussed informally with officers of the War Depart-
ment, who indicate that improved service, over and above
that provided by contract operations, would be desirable
from the point of view of SCAP and the War Department.
It has been indicated to the Department that, in the course
of a recent survey trip over Northwest's certifioated route,
President Croil Hunter of Northwest was advised by SCAP that
the latter was anxious to have both Northwest and Pan
American commence regular and frequent operations as quiokly
as possible to and through Tokyo in order to provide more
efficient service required by the occupation forces.
A draft policy statement with respect to control of
civil aviation in Japan is being forwarded to the Air
Coordinating Committee immediatoly for its urgont con-
sideration. Meanwhile, it is highly desirmble from the
carriers' point of view, as well as being in the best
interests of this Government, that SCAP Issue licenses
to Northwest and Pan American in order that both mirlines
may proceed with the operational planning necessary prior
to inauguration of regular scheduled service to and through
Japan approximately May 1.
Draft cable
SECRET

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
SEORET
- 8 -
Draft Cable to SCAP
REURAD CX 50743 Mmar 10. Draft B pol1cy re control
and operation of civil airlines to, through and from
Japan will probably go to Air Coordinating Committee for
consideration by April 1. If and when approved by AcC
and JCS, it is anticipated that statement of poliey will
be submitted to FEC for consideration and approval and
concurrently will be sent directly to you as interim
directive. Under policy as presently drafted you would
be empowered to take the following action when you
determine it would be consistent with overall objectives
of oceupation:
1. Permit civil air carriers of occupying powers
to transmit and make technical stops in, and carry
passengers, cargo and mail to, through and away from
Japan over routes which such carriers have been authorised
to fly by their respective governments.
2. Permit civil air carriers of other United Mation
Member States to transit and make technical stops in
Japan when necessary for efficiont and direct route
operation, and to carry traffic to, through and away from
Japan if such operation would benefit economy of State
whose flag carrier flies.
Proposed policy includes statement that development
of
SECRET

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
SBORET
- 3 -
of separate airline within Japan, whether operated by
Japanese or by non-Japanese, is politically undesirable
and economically impractical at this time. However,
provision is made whereby you could authorise airlines
of occupying powers to carry traffic between points
within Japan which lie on their regular international
routes when determined by you that such earriage would
be consistent with obfectives of oceupation. Additional
internal services required for purpose of occupation
would be operated only by military mir transport of
occupying forces or by civil carriers under contract
to such ocoupying forces.
Provision would be made for control and super-
vision by you of installation, maintenance and operation
of all aviation facilities used by civil carriors in
Japan, whether such facilities are provided by oceu-
pation forces or by carriers themselves. Use of
such facilities by civil carriers would be subject to
appropriate fees, payable in foreign exchange useful
for purchase of imports for Japan. Civil mir operations
in Japan would be governed by regulations established,
administered and enforced under your direction.
Japanese nationals would not be permitted to
ongage in flight operations. In this connection Jcs
presently preparing list of aviation related activities
1n
SECRET

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-4-
in which Germans may safely be permitted to engage
from security point of view in conneetion with eivil
air carrier operations in US Zone Germany. This list
will be sent you when available and should be useful
as starting point in spproaching comparable problem
re use Japanese nationals by civil airlines in Japan.
Your comments on proposed policy statement requested
urgontly.
Although Northwest and Pan American are not in
position to inaugurate scheduled common carrier service
through Japan for several weeks, both companies will be
in better position to make necessary plans and arrange-
ments if SCAp licenses for scheduled operations have
been issued. In light of foregoing sumary proposed
US policy, issuance such licenses now would not
jeopardize US position. Advance notice requested as
to date licenses to be issued and contents thereof.
AV:EAListor:smc
3/18/47
JK
JA
A-H

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.85)
406
mtblm
To eatabllsh mised states peliey with respeet to
sivil eviatiem in Japan.
Diccuneion
This Gevermment's present peliey temard Japenm hes
twe fumdamemtal ebjéctives:
1. To prevent Japem frem ever again beceming a
threat to the peaee of the werld.
2. To assist Japen to resever to a peint mhere
she cam contribute te the coememie and
pelitieal stability ef Asia and the Pecirle
aree.
As applied to eivil aviatiem these ebjestives
require the adeptien of measures which will prevent
the resurgenee in Japen of a military aviatiem petem-
tial, witheut barring the establishment of susk mini-
wm eivil air serviees as may be essential te the
esememie revivel of Japen and Masterm Asia.
swmce 1s0/4, Basie Pest-Surrender Peliey for Japam,
prevides im III, 1 that
" apan is not to have an any, mavy,
air feree, seeret pelice crgmisatiem or
amy eivil aviasiem."
On Nevember 18, 194s seap implemented the peliey
of danying Japen my eivil aviatien ef its em by
2scuing

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.92)
masch 20, 2007
- 8 -
Lasuing a memerendue for the Japenese Govermment
diresting the abelitien of govermmental and private
bedies and astivities comsermed with eommisreial or
other eivil aviation and ferbidding the establiskmemt
of sush bodies and activisies by Japemese. The tesrt
of this memorandum is attashed as Appendix A.
On September 30, 1946 the Mate and war Departments
addresjed a radie so CImcarrac referring te certiriea-
tion by the United States Gevermment of Werthmest Air-
lines and Pan Ameriean Airways to eperate over routes
to and through Japan, and stating that a peliey direstive
cemserning the operation of eivil airlimes to and through
Japan was in precess of preparatiem. The message them
inquired:
"On besis direetive along abeve lines
eam you state informally whem you will be
prepared te grant aath fer transit and nen-
traffis step te semmereial airlimes? Cam
you foresee whem right te pisk up and dis-
charge intermatienal traffie in pessengers,
sargo and mall at Tekye, limited if meees-
sary due to ether pelicies to sort pers
and eargo, can be gremted?
General MasArthur en Ostober 14, 1946 replied in
part as follews:
"No objection te proposed commercial
airlines serving Japam as seen as they are
prepared to commence operations provided
passengers, sarge and mail depesíted er
piaked up in Tokyo are limited to that
destined to or eriginated by the Cseupasion
Ferees and Agemsies aceredited near ScaP.
will be reviewed periedically and liberalised
as cenditions warrant."
Seeurity

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.90)
0020.2000
2
Sesurity cemsideratiens demend the emslusion of
Japemese persemmel frem participatiom in aviatiom
astivities during the peried of the eecupatiem, in
erder that a muslews of traized flight cress, teckmieiams,
and supervisory personnel may not be srested, whieh
sould be readily converted at the terminatiem ef the
esewpation into a military air feree. Per similar
reasons, the development of Japemese eirperts,
navigetional and redio sammumicatiom syetems, and
other aviatidn fasilities whish might pass as a
legasy to the Japanese at the elese of the eseupatien,
must be restrieted te the minimm reqmired fer safe
and efficient operation ef swsh air tramspert servises
as are deamed essential. Per the abeve reasems, it
is partieularly umdesirable at this time to permit
extensive development of a centralised air tramspert
system within Japam, in the absenee of eompelling
eeenomis nood.
Sesurity ebjestions are less applieable to the
establisbment of international sivil air servise em
trunk reutes through Japam, since sush serviees,
limited to ene or more mejor eities, weuld invelve
relatively minor development of Japamese air fields
and faeilities, and the air limes themselves weuld
not pess into Japanese control at the eenelwsiem ef
the eesupation. Mereover, it is recegmised that
Intermational commeree mecessitates the opening ef
air routes aaross Japan, in view of her geegraphie
p001010

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.93)
0202007
pesitiem and ecememie impertense. Pesmissien to
internatienal air lines to establish these threugh
serviees sheuld be related so far as is prastieable
to the needs of internatienel trade and semmeree,
convenience of leng-haul operatiens and existemse of
adequate fasilities. Permissien sheuld be granted
caly to sir limes of eceupying pewers er te air lines
of ether countries as may be agreed by the essmpatiom
autherisies.
Beememie necessity and the needs of the eseupation
sheuld gevern the extent of intermal servise whieh will
be permitted aleng through reutes. Sush serviee, of
course, weuld be insidental to the maim lime eperetiens.
The establishment of feeder systems, which would require
develepment of additienal airperts and extended imstal-
latien ef seshmieal fasilities, is semsidered umdesir-
able en the sesurity grounds diseussed above.
Where, for the purpeses of the eesupatiem, intermal
air sermiee is required whish eannet be supplied eem-
veniemtly by traffie steps autherised en the inter-
national routes, sweh serviee should be operated enly
by militery transpert er by sivil earriers wnder eem-
trast with the eceupatiem autherities until the need
fer the service terminates. At that time, the imstal-
lations required fer this servies, te preelude their
availability fer use by Japemese, sheuld be withtram
in so far as sush withtraval is shen regarded as tech-
nically feasible and pelitically desirable.
umisoumity

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.90)
0h 20, 2007
ST
- 8.
mifernity throughout the werld in air twarrie
rules, teehmical regulatioms, and in the previsien,
mmintemanse and eperatien of aviatien fasilities, is
a majer ebjeesive ef this Gevermmemt's eivil aviation
peliey. The previsien, maintenance and eperatiem ef
sush fasilities should be sontrelled and supervised
by scap, whe should take all prastieable stepe to
ensure that PICAo standards are adhered te.
The limited pregrem eutlined abeve eavisages the
minimm civil aviatien establishment reguired fer
essupational needs, and fer basie esememis rehabili-
tation of Japan. This pregram, te the extemt it is
net self-supperting, shsuld eventually be eharged
against the Japanese ecemeny, altheugh fimansed in
the first instanee by eseupying natiems. Mapenditures
sheuld be effset in as large measure as prastieable,
hewever, by she colleetien frem sommereial sarriers
of epprepriate fees for the use of the fasilities
previded. sueh fees should be paid in fereign exshange
useful fer the purebase of imperts fer Japan.
Cenelusien
For the reasons stated abeve, it is ceneladed
that the Air Ceerdinating Cemmistee should sdept the
follewing Statememt of Poliey:
1. Partieipation by apenese matienals in
Aviation Astivities. During the peried of oceupatien,
Japanese nationals should not be permitted to engage
in flight operations. However, sCap may mutherise
e1v11

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.94)
march 10, 1907
- •-
elvil air earriers to usilise Japemese matiemale in
cammeetiem with the maintenemee and eperatiem of
aviatiem ground faeilities end serviese, previded,
that no Japanese national may be empleyed in any
aviation-related astivity until beth the job and the
person to be used therein have been speeifisally
approved by Scar frem a seourity point ef view.
2. Internel Air Transpert Serviee. It is regarded
as pelitically undesirable and eeomemieally imprastieal
at this time to develop within Japan any separate air
transpert enterprise eperated by Japanese er by mem-
Japanese.
3. Intermetional Service To end Threach Japen.
a. by airlimes of ecewpying pevers:
Civil sir earriers of Mations partieipating
in the ccempatiom of Japan should be permitted by scap
to operate and to sarry passengers, cargo and mail inte,
through and eway from Japen over routes whieh they have
been spesifieally muthorized to fly by their respeetive
governments. SCap mey authorize such sirlines to earry
trafric between points within Japan whieh lie on their
international routes when he hes determined that sush
carriage would be sonsistent with the objeotives of
the oceupation.
b. by eirlines of non-occupying powers:
Duly authorized civil air earriers of other
Iinited Wation Wember States should be permitted by
SCAF to transit apen end to make techmical stope
therein

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.93)
mareh 10.1047
SECOET
-7 -
therein en route to other countries when sueh tramsis
and stops are necessary for efficient and direet
route operation. The right to a teahnieal stop granted
on this basis may bo expanded upon request to inelude,
in the light of occupational objectives and consistent
with civll aviation ngreements, a right to pak up and
discharge international traffic. An mirline or air-
lines of any thited Fation Member State may be permitted
to operate between the terrisory of sush State and a
terminal point in Japen if sueh operation would bemefit
the economy of the Stete soneermed and would be eon-
sistent with the objeetives of the eeeupation.
4. Administretive Transport for Cecmpetlemel Meede.
Vinimux internal and external serviee, additienal te
that provided by the internationel eivil routes and
which in the opinion of the oceupetion authorities Is
required for the purpcses of the oceupatiom, sheuld be
operated only by xilitery air transport or by eivil
carriers under contract to the occupation autherities.
At sush time as the need for this service termimates,
the installations required to maimtainit should be with-
drewn, if sueh setion is then regarded as feasible and
desirable.
5. Aviation Facilities. Scap should eontrel and
supervise the installation, meintemense and operation
of all aviation fasilities, usilised by sivil air
serriers, in aseordanse with PIcao standards. Axy wse
by sivil air earriers of fasilities provided by the
soeupes1om

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.86)
march 20, 2007
SEORET
- 8-
cscupetiom feress er by ether earriere should be subjeet
te epprepelate emd mem-diserimimatery fess.payable in foreign
exchange useful for the purchase of imports for Japan.
6. Technleel Remmlstiene. civil eperatioms to,
through and within Japem should be comdusted withim
regulations ceteblisbed, administered end enfereed by
SCAP and based en PICAO stendards.
Reesmndatione
It is recommemded that the Air Ceerdimsting Com-
mittee:
a. appreve the Statememt of Peliey set ferth abeves
b. after appreval thereef by the Jeims chiefs of
staff frem a military peint of view, tremmmit the
statememt ef Poliey to smmcc fer:
(1) its approvel:
(2) transmissiem to the tmited States Member
of the Far Eastern Cemmissien for submissien to the
Commissiem; and
(s) transmissiem to scap in the ferm of m
interim direstive.
Attaebment:
Appendix A
SEORET

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
SEORET
mareh 10, 1947
APPENDIX "A"
Orders from the Supreme Gemmamder fer the
Allied Powers to the Japanese Gevermment,
AG 360 (18 November 1945) E8S-8
1. You will abolish by 31 Decomber 1945 all
govermmental and semi-governmental bodies coneerned
with commeroial or other eivil aviation in any ef its
aspects except those activities specifically authorised
for operation under the direction of the Supreme Commander.
2. You will take necessary measures by 31 December
1945 te effect the dissolution of all companies, partner-
ships, or associations of any kind which have been engaged
in any way with relation to commeroial air transport or
other civilian air operations, or in pilot er ether train-
ingrelated to aircraft design, eonstruction, maintenanse
or operation.
3. You will submit to this headquarters not later
than 15 December 1945 a register of officers, prineipal
operating officials, professional engineering snd researsh
personnel, pilots and instruetors of the organisations
affected by the above dissolution.
4. On and after 31 December 1945 you will not permit
any governmental ageney or individwal, or amy business
concern, association, individual Japanese citisen or
group of citizens, to purchase, own, possess, or operate
any airoraft, miroraft assembly, engine, or researeh,
experimental, maintenance or production facility related
to aircraft or aeronautical science including werking
models.
5. You will not permit the teaching of, or researsh
or experiments in aeronautical science, meredynamies, or
other subjects related to aircraft or balloons.
6. Acknowledgment of receipt of this memorandum is
directed.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
1225
2959
STANDARD PERM NO. 64
TO
AV - Mr. E. A. Lister
DATE:
FROM
REC
SUBJECT:
Aviation Policy Questions.
31947
On my recent trip to Japan I discussed aviation
with SCAP representatives, particularly as related to Northwest Airlines.
894.796/7
Lt. Col. Cullen, speaking for SCAP, made the following requests:
(1) Can we provide SCAP with a list of all commercial lines, both
U.S. and others, licensed to fly in the Far Rast aree (meaning all Pacifio
Ocean area)?
(2) Does China National Aviation Corporation have charter to fly
same route as Northwest Airlines?
2
811.19
(3)CHac wants to fly a route from Shanghai to Wake direct, then
on across the Pacific. Since no airway exists and the approval of such
a route would require air-sea rescue facilities, SCAP representatives
suggest approval not be granted unless there are very persuasive reasons
to the contrary.
Should you desire to answer points (1) and (2), the information
should be sent to:
Lt. Col. Paul Cullen,
G-1
SCAP.
894.796
If you care to inform me on points (1) and (2), I shall be glad to
C
S
transmit the information.
N
JUL 3 1947
JK:DOBowman: bob
7/1/47
RxN
y

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.91)
1193
snNcc 379
7/3/47
nNeeed in sunce
guysi37
n.
fiee
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY, SWNCC
Subject: Civil Aviation In Japan.
894.796/7-347
The State Member requests that the attached paper,
which represents the views of the Department of State,
be ciroulated for the consideretion of the State-har-
mnit
J. H. Hilldring
State Department Member
A/MJS
State-lar-Navy Coordinating Committee
FAL
RAT
JK: RHWhitman:bg
6/23/47
ESP
AV
NA

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.93)
101947
MICLASSIFIED
To the
American Consular Officer in Charge,
894.796/10-1047
Lyem, France.
C
The Seeretary of State transmits herewith a letter
addressed to the Department by Mr. Rene Fautre, Sanatorium de
Belligneux, 306 Hauteville, Ain, France, requesting that
pietures of Japanese aireraft be forwarded to him.
The Department does not have individual photographs of
Japanese airereft types, but there are enclosed four pages
depicting Japanese aircraft whieh were taken from a book
entitled "Aireraft Spotter."
The Officer in Charge is requested to forward the
enolosed pages to Mr. Pautre.
CS/A
Enclosures:
1.4 pages from
"Aireraft Spotter"
2. Original letter dated
Aug. 26, 1947 with
enclosure.
TE
tree copy
the signed ag
UNCLASSIFIED
A
Jucw
π
10/6/47
AV:MCWalker:ao'r
347
l.E.e.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.90)
vurne ish-se
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
ACTION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
5
6
OCT 25 1947
8
OCT271947
27act47
N0H
894.796/10-2447
X
SSIAIE
LIAISNFICE
oV3-1947
CLC
OCT 01947
FILED
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.81)
NPIDENTIAL
 g.
Chin rnt
Incudepeciric
ugugt is  roult
was alvised airline
on-dia riminatory
lavs in our offort
nna antion resolving
1 atton urgently
avia  Shang
Ir ordar arvi and I
voral in beat
egardiag inturnal
va wher an if
195
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.95)
PORM D8-922
7-18-46
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
INDICÄTE
Collect
CONFIDENTIAL
Department of Stat
Charge to
Washington
894.796/10-2447
AMCONSUL,
59om
SHAIGHAI, HIAIGSU, CHIHA.
18 40
FOR LISTR FROM AV.
URT:I 2504, Oct 24. U: rep FC has received instructions to drop
pressure for joint internel operating company. Instructions do not
call for support Us position on cabotage. UK is to support Chinese
amend which provides no internal service (either separate or
by cabotage) may be catablished by SCAP until latter has received
FEC policy decision to be requested by SCAP when and if need for
internal services arises. DEPT now enga ed in obtaining views other
agencies in order ke decision whether us should support Chinese
amend. Our view is we should continue efforts get Fi policy
giving SSAP power grant cabotage. DaPT consulting BRIT mB in
hope
more favorable position by  can be obtained.
CSN
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
0CT 98
Acting.
894.796
TRC
FE
EUR
QCT
OE
CONFIDNTIAL
AxRThayer: df
10/27/47
10.2447
CR CLEARANCE
OR
OCT
28
1947

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.93)
D 299
TRE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DIVISION OF OUCUPED 42 1S
ECO OVIC AFFAIRS
American Erhassy
JATL
DEC 3-1947
London, November 12, 1947
RESTRICTEDDEPARTMFNT OF STATE
DHISOF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
No. 2552
DEC 2 31947
Subject:
UK Position toward Internal Air Service
STATE
in Japan
IE NC
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OF
NT
H
DIVISIONT
1947 NOV 19 PM 3
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
EN
CE
18
R
DEPART
The
Hongrable
51947
RECEIVED
Seeretary of State,
Washington
AV
NC
Sir:
894.796
1. In reference to the Department's telegram
0
No. 4754, November 7, 5 p.m., on the above-cited sub-
3
ject, I have the honor to enclose copy of a self-
explanatory memorandum of a conversation held on
November 10, l947, between an Embassy officer and
-C
officials of the Foreign Office.
TO
2. The conversation outlined in the enclosure
PE
was of crurse held prior to the arrival of the Dep-
8c
artment's tele ram No. 4793, November 10, 6 p.m., instruct-
ED
ing that Departmental telegram No. 4754 be disregarded.
247
While we are unaware of the reasons which prompted the
FN
Department to take the action set forth in its telegram
CP
No. 4793, we are of the opinion that our action in laying
A-3
the Department's position before the Foreign Office will
OE
cause no harm, ana may, on the contrary proauce a salu-
tary effect.
DCD
De
0
Respectfully yours,
17
FILED
Eu
For the Charge d'Affaires a.i.:
1
8
670
6
CS
Everett-F. Drumright
First Secretary of Embassy
A
closure:
Cony or Hemoranaum
of Conversation
(Original ana hectograph to the Department)
894.
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCAP, Tokyo
EFDrumright/wg
RESTRICTED

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 2552 dated November 12, 1947,
from American mbassy, London, England.
November 10, 1947
MEMORANDUI OF CONVERSATION
Subject:
K Position toward Internal Air Service
in Japan
Participants:
Mr. MacDarmot, Head, Japan ana Pacific
Department, Foreign Office
Mr. Cheke, Japan and Pacific Department,
Foreign Office
Hr. Dmumright
1. r. Drumri ht called on Lassrs. MacDermot and
Cheke by appointment and imparted to them orally and
informally the substance of the Department's telegram
No. 4754, Lov amoer 7, 5 p.m., on the nbove-cited sub-
ject.
2. Messrs. MacDermot ana Cheke confirmed that the
UK Government haa not yet transmitted definitive instruct-
ions on the subject to the Wl representative on the Far
Eastern Commission. They pointed out that UK policy on
such aviation matters is largely in the hanas of the
Ninistry of Civil Aviation.
3. Messrs. MacDermot ana Cheke said that the K
had opoosed cabotage in Japan. The UK had taken this
position, they went or to say, because the Uk aiplomatic
representative in Japan had raported that there was no
need for cabotage in Japan, ana that the military air
service operated by SCAP could take care of all present
requiraments.
4. Mr. Drumright said he doubted whether the
United States would support cabotage rights unless
there was a demand for internal air transportation which
could not be hanalea by the military service.
5. Mr. Drumright then pointed out that Mr.
MacDermot had some weeks ago tola him that at the Can-
berra conference the K had ahanaoned the concept that
an international civil aviation organization should be
formed to operate an internal air service in Japan and
had proposed, instead, that the Japanese be allowed to
operate their own internal sir service (see Embassy's
airgram/
RESTRICTED

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Page 2.
Enclosure to
2..23
Despatch 2552
November 12, 1947
from Lonaon
air~ram A-1989, September 25, 1947). Mr. MacDermot
confirmed that the UK haa taken such a position at
Canberra, but pointed out that the K position thereon
had reference to the post-treaty period.
6. Mr. MacDermot went on to say it was his
personal view that it woula be impracticable at this
late date to endeavor to set up a joint international
aviation operating company in Japan.
7. Mr. MacDermot said that "note" woula be taken
of the Department's views, ana although he aia not
commit himself categorically, he left the impression
that the Foreign Office woula do what it coula to meet
the Department's desiaerata.
8. Mr. Drumright concluaed that the US Civil Air
Attache, who was at eneva, woula no aoubt take up the
matter direct with the Ministry of Civil Aviation at
a convenient time.
Everett . Drumright
RESTRICTED

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
DIVISION
STATES OF AMERICA
DEC 9/197
London, No
AIR MAIL
Nov. 26 - 47 DEC 2 31947
RESTRICT
No. 2700
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subjsct:
UY Position Toward rternar Air Service
in Japan
OIVINION OF OCCUPIED AR AS
EIVED
ECOMOMIC AFFAIRS
DEC 16 1947
01
DEC 51947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
Seeretary of State,
Washinstor
Sir:
Tu refaronce to the Dopartment's telerram No.
TRC
4754, ov mber 7, 5 n.n., and the Embassy's despatch
No. 252, o omber 12, 1047, on the above-cited subject,
 have the oner, further to this subject, to enclose
FE
copy of a celf-explanatory communication of November 25,
BC
1o47, receive in the Emhassy from the Foreign Office.
FC
Tt will be observed that the erclosed conmurication
A-S
purrorts to set forth K policy toward pivil aviation
in Japar.
CP
OE
04
Respectfully yours,
CCD
IE NC
3
Por the Amhassador:
DC/R
9(7 E  P
fr
E
R
DEPARI
Everett
Drumright
First Secratary of Fmbassy
OFL
Enclosure:
1947 DEC 3
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Letter from Foreim Office
RECEIVED
18
(Orimiral and eetoraph to tho Department)
Copy to I.S. Political Adviser, ScAP, Tolyo
CA
3
2
ErDrumricit/w
DEC 31 1947
RESTRICTED

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.92)
(copy)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 2700 dated November 26, 1947,
from American Embassy, London, England.
RESTRICTED
FORETGN OFFICE, S.W.1.
No.  7967/34/802.
25th November, 1947.
Dear Drumricht,
When yon calla: on the loth Tovmber, you asked
whether T coulu ive vou sore information about His
Hajesty's lovernuent's ottituue towards the draft policy
decision on civil aviatior in Japa. which is now being
consi lered by the Yar Masten Com ission. You referred
in particular to the nite in   om attituae to the sug-
restion that forein airlines operatin: traffic services
to and throuch Japar pi ht be rar te cabotare rights
in Japan.
2. I. principle, It seems to us desirable that
cabotara ri  ts   ould et o ivon to foreign airlines,
ur less it is cusolutely  ecessary, bocause this would
tend r pre die the onast on of  ow civil aviation in
Japan should evalen in the pest-cccupetior period.
Apart fron t is, toe, the information which we have
reoeivea fron Tolyo leads us to aoubt vory much whether
t ere is, at o ere: t, e donand ror internal civil air
trausprt i Jpan.
3. e practical 'sane ap ars te be whether or
rot thare is at t is orent a real r ed for civilian
airlines to carm pasrm rs aro freicht from one place
to arothor insi i Tupan. f, us we lieve, there is
no such neea. it worl: seem to bo pr ature to consider
mal in orevisr ver orn sirli as to  joy cahotave
ri-hts.
4.
Pare s a a n ese proposal bofore the Commi-
ss'r which reuds es ollows:-
"T at ang tme it seeus usirahlo to the
S preme coa ander Tor the alliel Powers to estab-
lish un air trarsoct eery'c betweer pc irts in
Japan he shoul pefur tho o estion to the Par
Eastern Commission  or a policy decision. In
the neantine, io internal civil semice should
he onerats? in Japa".
are nclinel t tn thet this proncsal is one
which dhseves suppent.  e Supreme Jommander is in
the  ast pcsition to dntermine the needs of the situation
in Japan and it would seem aporonriate for the Far
sastorn Coms iss :on to look to Lim for guidance in this
matter. ndar the Chinese preposal it would be open
to t a Sinreme Commander, now or et any subsequent
dato, to statu
his opinion on the desirability of
insttutiu an
internal civil air service and to refer
the question/
RESTRICTED

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
Page 2.
Encl. to despetch No. 2700, November 26, 1947, from London
the question to the Commission for a policy decision.
The proposal woula, of course, leave open for deter-
mination, in the light of the conaitions prevailing at
the time, the particular form of internal air transport
servico which should ha onerated.
5. e are pron sin to advise our Delegation on
the Commission alen the fcrecoin lir es ard hope that
this w:ll laad to garly arreement he'rr reached on the
papar.
Yours sincerely,
/sinod/ n.. HacDermot
Mr. Everett . Drurrirt,
United States Embassy,
1 rosvenor Square,
1.1.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
FORM D6-323
7-10840
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
RESTRICTED
NO.A-117
Washington,
2104
USPOLAD,
TOKYO.
894.796/12-2947
PAA filed application to CAE on Dec. 2 for an amendment of
existing certificate so as to authorize service on routes within
Japan as follors:
1) Chitose - Hachinohe - Sendai - Tokyo - Nagoya - Osaka -
Iwakuni - Fukuoka - .anoya.
2) Tokyo - Niigata - Kanazawa - Nagoya - Tokyo.
While it is not clear whether application contemplates
establishment of such service by means of cabotage or whether
a separate internal service is contemplated the Dept. believes
application in no way affects provisions of policy outlined
in S.1.CC 379 (Civil Aviation in Japan during occupation period).
CS/A
Dept. requesting CAF to take no action on application until FEC
has reached final decision on FC 245 now under discussion since
DISTRIBUTION
question of cabotae is major point on which other FEC members
DESIRED
894,796
(OFFICES ONLY)
differ from U. S. position as stated in FEC 245 and SiNCC 379.
A copy
RESTRICTED
CR CLEARANCE
714450

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
RESTRICTED
NO. A-117
Washington,
2104
Page two to USPOLAD, TOKYO.
A copy of this Airgram is being sent to the U. S. Civil
Air Attache, Consulate General, Shanghai, for info.
Acting.
COPY TO:
DISTRIBUTION
U. S. Civil Air Attache,
DESIRED
Consulate General, Shanghai, Kiangsu, China
(OFFICES ONLY)
TRC
TRC
EAL
RAT
AV:RAThayer:df
12-17-47
OE
NA
CR CLEARANGE
RESTRICTED
S/S-CR
DEC
29 1947 P M.
A

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.95)
JAN 15:48
CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD
JAN 14 1948
DIVISION
E
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
AV
0 10N SA
E11947
ÉPPARTO
FEB 1 8 1948
DE
894.796/1-1448
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
NA
DCk
Mr. Walter A. Radius, Director
Office of Transport and Communications
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Radius:
This will acknowledge your letter of December 30,
1947, in which you suggest that no action .be taken on
the application of Pan American Airways, Inc., for
authority to operate to additional points within Japan
until such time as the Far Eastern Commission has arrived
at a final decision regarding the policy directives to be
811.79694
issued to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
with respect to civil aviation in Japan during the
occupation period.
No procedural action is contemplated in connection
CS/A
with the Pan American application and none will be taken
until the situation to which you refer has been clarified.
Sincerely yours,
CArray
894.796
OSWALD RYAN
Acting Chairman
FEB 25 1948
FILED

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.95)
AV-Mx.cantu
MA. Bu
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DC/R
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: February 4, 1948
SUBJECT:
Civil Aviation in Japan - Far Eastern Commission Consideration
of Policy Paper
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Whitman - OE
Mr. Bovman - O
r. Ford - Eritish Representative on Commission 2, FEC
Mr. Bicknell - British Civil Air Attache
.r. Clarkson - Eritish Civil Air Attache-Designated
894.796/2-448
COPIES TO:
r. hitman -
BC
NA
1—1408
Lir. Biclmell end lr. Ford met with the above ofiicers of
the Department at our requect to discuss, informally, the cur-
rent status of F.c action on Japanese Civil Aviation policy and
to oxplore possible crounds for Us-U arreement on specific
points at issue. It was enlained at the outset that the meet-
ing was purely informal and that any sta ements nade as to the
position of either Government could not be considered as binding
upon the parties concermed.
r. Thayer explained that, in his opinion, the major point
in the current  paper which as o re teet concern to the
uS vas the cuestion of irtermal service in Japan. He pointed
out them the cuvrent craft  rohibtt  the esta lichment of any
type o intornal service by l and required the latter to
CSV
take no action on the matter until the e had handed dowm a
policy decision. It was explained that this was unsatisfactory
to the Us for two reasons. First, the fact that it could be
expected that the occupation would last for a much longer period
894.796/2.
than originally anticipated when the US submitted the paper and,
second, the fact that the , in view of this factor, considered
it unwise
E
ant
B
FILED
2
RESTRICTED
1949
1
-448

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
RESTRICTED
it unwise to bind SCAP's hands on such an important question.
Mr. Thayer went on to explain, in brief, the history of the
consideration given to this problem in the FEc, the various
positions of the Governments represented and an explanation
of certain compromise proposals which had been submitted by
the US on an informal basis but which had been voted down in
the Commission. It was explained that the US had no particu-
lar desire to see a separate internal service as extendd by
the provisions of the paper originally submitted by the Us and
that furthermore, we would not car to see cabotage rights
granted in such a way as to permit the estanlishment of what
would virtually amount to ar extensive internal service.
Iir. Thayer said that, in his opinion, the Us might well have
gone into more detail in the original draft submitted, defining
ir some way a limitation upon the extent to which cabotage
could be granted. Mr. ticknell said that he aptreciated the
above explanation but the dificulty on their part was that
they still had instruction: to supi ort the Chinese amendment
which specifically prohihited Cir fro" esta. lishing ry in-
ternal service until   sete or the na ter. r. Licknell
stated he lid not knor whether uhese instructions eranated frem
 creir 0 Pice or ro the inistry cf Aviation.
Mr. Thayer s id he could see no reason why the Us and the
UA could rot reach some cort of acreement which would result
in a paper satisfactory to both parties. Mr. Whitman said that
one possible compromise might be in the for: of a time limita-
tior as to the prohi itions contained in the paper. Mr. Thayer
said that, in his orinion, the best possibility for compromise
lay, p rhaps, in a close de inition of what cabotage rights
could be granted, plus ? defined proce ure by which these
rights wonld be granted.
Mr. Ford and .r. Ficknell stated that they thought it
would be desirable if they were to communicate with London
reportiny the results of the mee ing with us and requesting
any vieva which London micht have on the matt r. r. Iord
said that before they ii this they would have to have some
very so nd reasons for raising the question. hr. hitman
pointed out that, in his opinion, the most important reason
for possible reconsideration of the Eritish position was the
certainty that the occupation would last for a much longer
period than ve had nticipate some months ago. r. Licknell
said
RESTRICTED

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
RESTRICTED
said that any operations to Japen by EOAc would, undoubtedly, be
highly uneconomical and that, as a consequence, it was their
opinion that the Ministry of Civil Aviation was not seriously
considering implementing any cuch routes. Mr. Thayer inquired
whether, in view of this fact, r. Eicknell thought the Eritish
might not be more likely to change their position on paper in
order to move closer to the s point of vi w. Mr. Bicknell said
he did not think so since it appeared to him that the British
policy toward Japan was motivated primarily by an idealistic
approach rather than from economic factors and actual plans for
British airline operations. r. Picknell went on to say that
since the Japanose matter appeared to be the only policy question
in the aviation field on which there was substantial diffcrence
of o inion between the U ar i the W, he hoped that it would
be poscible to reac!. a compromice on this question. The neeting
adjourned vith the understanding that the ritish would report
to us the results of their co munications with London on the
matter.
RESTRICTED
AvAshayer:df

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
HOP SCORRE
le
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY
NOV 1 7 1948
WASHINGTON, D. C.
RALTZMAN
16 MAR 1948
Mr. Frank G. Wisner
Deputy to Assistant Secretary of State
for Occupied Areas
Department of State
Dear Mr. Wisner:
At the meeting of Committee No. 2 of the Far Eastern Commission, held
26 February 1948, that committee referred to the Steering Committee a paper
entitled "Civil Aviation in Japan (FEC-245, C2-245/15)". On that occasion
the U.S. member of the committee stated that "he had been consulting his
894.796/3-1648
Government on the changes made in the U.s. proposal. He considered that the
Committee had done able and useful work. In some respects he thought the
paper had been improved, and he expressed the belief that his Government
could accept most of the changes without question". (inutes--Com. No. 2,
105th Mtg. - 26 February 1948, page 5). In view of what I consider serious
defects in this paper, I am taking the liberty of calling the matter to your
attention.
The present U.S. policy with respect to civil aviation in Japan is set
forth in S.VNCC 379 which was approved by the JCS 29 July 1947 and by SWNCC
on 31 July 1947. This paper in effect adopted with minor amendments ACC
41/5.1 which had been approved by the Air Coordinating Committee 10 April
1947. Shortly after S.NCC's approval, the paper was introduced into FEC and
the U.3. member of FEC was authorized to "accept modifications proposed by
other members of the commission whioh do not change the meaning and substance
of these conclusions."
FILED
is not to have an Army, Navy, Air Force, Secret Police Organization, or any
civil aviation".
1948
The U.S. Government's policy toward Japan at the time that each of the
above-mentioned papers were approved was primarily "to prevent Japan from ever
TOP
again becoming a threat to the peace of the world" and secondarily, "to assist
Japan to recover to a point where she can contribute to the economic and poli-
tical stability of Asia and the Pacific area".
The civil aviation policy contained in SWNCC 379 was formulated at a time
when the initial bright hopes of obtaining cooperation with Russia were begin-
ning to fade. With that in mind, the paper gave SCAP considerable disoretion
with respect to all aspects of civil aviation in Japan, except that he was not
to permit Japanese to operate planes. Also with respect to internal air
transport service in Japan, he wus infonmed - "It is regarded as undesirable,

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
U8R
- 2 -
in view of political and security considerations, at this time to develop
within Japan any separate air transport enterprise operated by Japanese or
non-Japanese". Already it had become apparent that security requirements
demanded that rigid control be exercised over any Russian flights to or
from Japan. With that in mind, a distinotion was made between ocoupying.
and non-occupying powers with respect to international civil aviation to and
fron Japan. The civil air carriers of the occupying powers "should be per-
mitted by SCAP, on a non-discriminatory basis, to operate and carry passen-
gers, cargo and mail into, through and away from Japan over routes which they
have been specifically authorized to fly by their respective governments.
SCAP may authorize such air lines to carry traffic between points within
Japan which lie on their international routes when he has determined that
such carriage would be consistent with the objectives of the occupation.
However, non-occupying powers' air carriers should be permitted by SCAP on a
non-discriminatory basis to transit Japan and to make technical stops therein
en route to other countries when such transits and stops are necessary for
efficient and direct route operation." (It was believed that this would
effectively bar the Russians). Further, "the right to a technical stop granted
on this basis may be expanded upon request to include, in the light of oooupa-
tional objectives and consistent with civil aviation agreements, a right to
pick up and discharge international traffic. An air line or air lines of any
United Nations member state may be permitted to operate between the territory
of such state and a terminal point in Japan if such operation would benefit
the economy of the state concerned and would be consistent with the objeotives
of the occupation". (It was considered that such language would leave SCAP
with complete discretion and protect the national interests of the United
States).
SWiiCC 379 also provided that "SCAP should control and supervise the in-
stallation, maintenance and operation of all aviation facilities, utilized by
civil air carriers, in accordance with TICAO standards. Any use by civil air
carriers of indigenous facilities provided by the occupation forces or by other
carriers should be subject to appropriate and non-discriminatory fees, payable
in foreign exchange useful for the purchase of imports for Japan."
During the time which has elapsed since Sincc 379 was approved, the inter-
national situation with respect to Russia has deteriorated. Today, military
alliances are in process of formation, both in Russian controlled countries
and the western nations, which are designed to secure allies in the event of
war between the two major powers. Japan is potentially a strong ally of tho
United Sta es. In this state of world affairs, what was formerly the primary
objective of U.S. policy " to prevent Japan from ever again becoming a threat
to the peace of the world" appears rather meaningless, and certainly the policy
emphasis has shifted to what was a secondary policy objective - "to assist
Japan to recover to a point where she can contribute to the eoonomio and poli-
tical stability of Asia and the Pacific area." Realistically, the U.S. policy
should be to oppose any international move designed to weaken the control of
the U.S. over Japan or to lessen the value of Japan to the U.S. in the event of
a war with Russia.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
SC& 245/16 is incompatible with military security interests. It
makes no distinction between occupying and non-occupying powers with re-
spect to civil aviation. It seeks to impose various limitations on the
present powers of SCAP to control the situation. It bans all internal
civil aviation in Japan unless SCAP first obtains the permission of the
FEC, which, of course, would be impossible in view of the Rassian power
of veto. If any weight is given to the recorded understanding of the
Chinese delegation, the use of Japanese nationals in the non-flying
services connected with civil aviation would be further curtailed. In
addition to the inherent vice of such restrictions, it would mean further
expense for the U. S. if such services had to be performed by persons
whose salaries would be paid in dollars.
It appears from the foregoing that FEC adoption of a civil aviation
policy toward Japan cannot be obtained without lessening the restrictions
placed upon the U. S. member of FEC by SANACC in SWNCC 379. Lessening
these restrictions involves consideration of the advisability of issuing
the policy in SWNCC 379 as a unilateral American directive. These ques-
tions require review by SANACC and JCS prior to further action by the
U. S. member of FEC. Therefore, it is strongly recommended thats
a. State member of SANACC report to SANACC on the progress to
date in seeking FEC adoption of the policy in SWNCC 379 and submit recom-
mendations regarding any modification of SWnCc 379 considered appropriate.
b. Prior to final SanacC action in the matter, the views of
the JCS and SCAP be requested.
c. No further action be taken by the U. S. member of FEC pend-
ing review of the matter by SANACC and JCS.
Mirecian H Araper
Sincerely yours,
William H. Draper, Jr.
Under Secretary of the Army
TOP SPUHE

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
sR
TOP SECRET
June 23, 1948
Dear General Nooe:
This letter is in reference to Under Secretary Draper's letter
of March 16, 1948, to me, Mr. Saltmman's reply of Marah 22, 1948, to
yourself, and your letter of June 15, 194s, to Mr. Saltaman, regarding
894.796/3-1648
the paper on Civil Aviation in Japan now before the Far Easterm Cem-
mission (FEC 245).
The Department of State has been in agreement with the suggestien
made in Mr. Draper's and your letters that the U. S. pesitien em the
paper before the Far Eastern Commission should be reconsidered befere
the U. S. representative on the Far Eastern Commissien is autherised
to act. The U. S. representative has, therefore, been instrueted se.
defer action on this paper until he could reseive instructions of the
Government.
The detarmination of the U. S. position on this paper has of
course been dalayed by the general review of U. S. poliey toward
Japan. It is now felt, however, that this review has progressed suf-
ficiently that & governmental position on the civil aviation paper ean
be reached. The Department of State has prepared a proposed position
which has been submitted informally to Col. Cheseldine of your affiee
and to a representative of the Department of the Air Force for cen-
sideration.
I believe you will find the mubstance of the proposals meets all
of the points raised in the letters from Mr. Draper and yourself. If
there are any remsining questions, representatives of the Department
will be available to discuss the details of the paper with Army and
Air Force representatives at any time.
From the standpeint of procedure, I have some question as to
whether it is necessary to submit ths question to SANacC. However,
there is no objection to this procedure if the Department ef the Army
or the Department of the Air Foroe desires it. I do not believe the
changes
Major General Daniel Noce, GSC
Chief, Civil Affairs Division,
Department of the Arry.
TOP SECRET

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.94)
TOP SECRET
changes mde in the original paper are so signifisant as to regaire
re-submission to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. I feal, hewever, that
they should be sent to SCAr for conourrense or comment.
The leng delay in the announoement by the U. S. Member on the
Far Eastern Commission of his Government's positien makes it impertent
that he be able to state a position at the earliest possible time.
It is hoped, therefore, that SCAp's views may be obtained and egreement
reached within the Government upon & positien before the mesting of
the Commission on July 1. Your help in mesting this deadlime will be
appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
Frank G. Wisner,
Deputy to the Assistant Sesretary
for Oecupied Areas.
A true copy of
the signed orig-
0:PPClaxton:br
6/22/48
No llarancer of to ined because vome bitieed veasray
3
TOP SECRET

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
oc/R
TOP SECRET
March 22, 1948
Dear General Noce:
Before his departure, Under Secretary Draper wrote
Mr. Wisner regarding the paper "Civil Aviation in Japan (FEC-
245, C2-245/12)". A copy of his letter is anclosed.
It is probable that it did not come to ir. Draper's atten-
tion before his departure that this paper was among those which
894.796/3-1648
General  cCoy, U. S. Member of the Far Eastern Commission, was
instructed to delay pending the return of Mr. Kennan and con-
sideration of his report. A copy of this list, which was
concurred in by the Army Department through Lt. Col. Wilner of
 & 0, is also enclosed.
I believe it vould be desirable to defer determination as
to what changes if any should be made in this paper until a
basic determination of U. S. policy has been made after analyais
of Mr. Kennan's report and of the observations of Mr. Draper
and his group ftllowin: their return from Japan. The view
axpressed ii r. Drapc 's letter will, of course, be given full
consideration at that time.
Cincerely yours,
Charles . Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
Enclosures
TOP SECRET
General Danial Noce,
Civil Affairs Division,
Department of the Amy.
NA
A√
0:PPPMaxton:br
06
3/22/48
Bonman
TOP SECRET
0.288
0.203

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF OCCUPIED AS
pCR
BRITISH EMBASSY.
DÉPA
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
13th April, 1948.
Ref: 260/19/48
TE
894.796/4-1348
Dear Whitman,
Further to my letter 260/10/48 of
lst March regarding the currency clause in
the draft policy on Civil Aviation in Japan
now before the Far Eastern Commission, I am
11
writing to inform you that in asking for
assurances that local yen earnings of British
airlines could be used to pay for local ser-
vices we were thinking principally of yen
acquired through passenger fares and freight
charges.
Would you confirm that it is your
understanding that yen acquired in this way
would be usable to pay for local services?
If you can do this, we can accept the currency
clause as drafted.
Yours sincerely,
J. F.Ford.
J. F. Ford.
Mr. R. H. Whitman
United States Re resentativeon
Committee 2,
574796
Far Eastern Commission,
WASHINGTON, D.C.
DIVISION OF OCCUPIED AR AS
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
S
APR 2 7 1948
N
14.1348
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.95)
APR 211948
In reply refer to
894.796/4-1348
OE
My dear Ford:
This is in answer to your letters of Maroh 1,
and Apr11 13, 1948, refarences 260/10/48 and 260/19/48,
regarding the currency clause in the draft poliey on
Civil Aviation in Japan now before the Far Fastern
p
Commission. In your letter of April 13, you state
that in asking for assurances that local yem earnings
of Fritish airlines could be used to pay for local
services you were thinking primarily of yen acquired
through passenger fares and freight aharges.
Foreign concerns licensed to do business in Japan
under ciroumatances that permit the acquiring of a yen
income have regularly been authorised by the terms of
the license issued by the Supreme Commander for the
Allled Powors to make use of such yen yearnings for the
payment of the looal expenses of the business. It would
be my opinion that SCAr would extend the same privileges
in case an airline, authorised to operate to Japan, were
also licensed to conduct business which would resuit in
yon earnings. Furthermore, it was our intention in
drufting the curremoy clause in the present paper to
permit uso of yen carnings for payment of suoh services
CS/V
as soon as such earnings could be available.
I hope this statement will satiefy your sovernment
on thi: issue.
Sincerely yours,
KAN
Foswell H."bitmep
Acting Assodiate Chier
APR 21 1948
Division of Cocupied Areas
Roonomic Affairs
94.796/
Mr. J. F. Ford,
First Secretary,
British rmbassy,
Washington, D. C.
Cls.
0.:RHWhitman:emh 4-15-48

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
DATE: May 20, 1948
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
SUBJECT:
Attached Draft SANaCC Paper on "Policy for Civil Aviation
in Japan".
SANaCC paper setting forth U.S. policy regarding civil
aviation in Japan. The purpose of this paper is to obtain
SANACC ap roval of certain changes in a paper approved some
time ago by SANAcc on this subject, changes which appear
desirable to the drafting divisions (OE and AV) in the light
of discussions of the earlier U.S. paper over a good many
months in the FEC. The submission of the attached new paper
to SaNacC affords opportunity, however, for a new look at
the problem in the light of the reexamination of our Japan
policies.
The paper presents three rather basic questions center-
8
ing around the three following provisions in the paper (see
h
pages o-8, right column, of attached):
"During the period of occupation Japanese nationals
26
should not be permitted to engage in flight operations."
"Civil air carriers of United Nations Member States
duly authorized by their governments to operate to Japan
should be permitted by SCAP, on a non-discriminatory
basls and consietent with security and within the limits
2048
of thc availability of facilities to (operate civil air
services into, through and away from Japan)."
"The number and size of aerodromes and aviation
facilities available in Japan should bc strictly limited
to those required for the purposes of the occupation...".
I.
The first of the above three provisione represente con-
firmed U.3. Governnent policy since the days when President
Roosevelt stated that the defeated enemy countries should be
allowed no more aircraft than they could fly with rubber
bands. The policy has already been incorporated in the Basic
Post-Surrender Policy for Japan, which states that "Japan is
nct to heve any army, navy, air force, secret police organi-
zation, or any civil aviation...".
AB you
SECRET

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2-
As you have pointed out, civil air transport has come
to form an essential element of modern living, and it would
seem desirable that a peaceful Japan should not be prevented
over the long run from possessing a civil air transport sys-
tem of her own if she so desires. The situation during the
remainder of the occupation, however, assuming that the occu-
pation lasts, Bay, another two or three years, presents a
special set of circumstancee. On the one hand, the United
States and other FEC nations are firmly committed to the
principle that Japan shall not engage in aviation activities
during the occupation (and most FEc nations desire also for
the indefinite future), based on the opinion of experts that
there is no effective dividing line between militery and civil
aviatior. Any indication by the Jnited States that it had
changed its mind on this question, -- and refusal by the U.S.
Government to continue to support the paper now before the
Far Eastern Commiesion would of course be just such an indi-
cation --, would arouse the instant hostility of all other
FEC nations and would open to doubt our entire security poli-
cies for Japan. On the other hand, it cannot possibly be
argued that pcssession by Japen of a civil air transport
syetem during the next few yeers would contribute to Japanese
economic revival; in fact it would probably have the opposite
effect. The question, indeed, is rendered almost academic
by the fact that Japan lacks the foreign exchange with which
to buy or lease foreign aircraft to build up a domestically
owned air transport eystem.
It would seem in light of the above factors that the
United States would lose nothing by continuing to support the
subject provision -- that Japan should have no aviation acti-
vitiee during the occupation --, and would seriously jeopard-
ize the success of more important policies by altering its
position on the question, because of the fear and resentment
which the change would arouse on the part of the cther FEC
nations. Dy the time Japan can afford a domestically owned
air service, and it seems safe to let her have it, a good
many years will probably have paesed, and the present paper
should have long sirce ceased to heve binding effect.
It is recommended in the light of all these factors
that FE approve the general principle embodied in the attach-
ed paper, that Japan should not engage in any aviation acti-
vities (except narrowly restricted ground services for foreign
airlines) during the occupation period.
工I.
The effect of the second quoted provision would be to
permit
SECRET

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-3-
permit the Soviets to operate a civil air transport system
into, through and away from Japan, "consistent with seourity
and within the limits of the availability of facilities".
(The contention that the Soviets do not possess a civil air
service and hence would be excluded from the benefits of this
provision has been denied by EE, which states that the
Soviets do have domestic air lines whioh could be consider-
ed "civil" within the meaning of this paper.) In theory
SCAP could always deny the Soviet airlines access for real
or manufactured reasons of security or lack of facilities,
but it would seem unwise to rely on this power if we really
do not want the Soviets participating in aviation activities
in Japan. Personally, however, I can see no great harm in a
few Soviet planes flying scheduled flights into Japan with
attendant ground services. SCAp would always have power to
restrict or cancel the service if the privilege should be
abused or come to constitute a security risk. While it would
of course be desirable if possible to exclude the Soviets by
the terms of the paper, this would remove all possibility of
approval of the paper by the FEC and would constitute open
dibcriminetion against the Soviets.
We know from our experience over the technological mis-
sions issue that SCAP is extremely reluctant to allow more
Soviet nationals into Japan. Mr. Draper also indicated
doubts about the subject provision in a letter of a month
or more ago. While it is questionable, therefore, whether
the protvision will receive ready Army concurrence in SANACC,
my recommendation, in light of the above consideration, would
be that it be approved by State.
III.
Regarding the third quoted provision, it would seem
that the stipulation that the number and size of aerodromes
be "strictly limited to those required for the purposea of
the occupation" would, if approved, place the U.3. in a very
embarrassing position if we were called upon, as we almost
certainly would be, to explain the Mieawa and other 6000-9000
foot airports we are building in Japan. We might worm out of
it on the grounds that such airporte were necessary to accom-
modate the ever larger land planes employed by our air
services, but would be hard put to defend such & position,
particularly in light of the full and accurate American pub-
licity which these airports have been receiving.
There
SECRET

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-4-
There would seem to be two probleme involved, one sub-
stantive and the other prccedural. The first is the sizable
question of whether the construction of these airports 1s
in accordance with United States policy. Preliminary informal
inquiries of the Army Department tend to confirm the suspi-
cion that they have been built primarily, if not entirely,
on the decision and authority of the theater commander, and
General Macarthur's statements on the advisability of complete
withdrawal from Japan after the treaty lead one to believe
the decision was basically General Eichelberger's. Without
attempting to analyze all of the political-military aspeots
of the matter, it is difficult to see how we could defend
and use these airports in the future except on the basis of
an indefinitely continued military protectorate, involving
the use of large forces, over Japan. In any other cireum-
stances the aerodromes are likely to be of more value to the
Soviets than to ourselves. If a long-term protectorate is
not our long-range plan, as it certainly is not under the
revised Kennan report, it would seem that an agreed U.S.
Government policy on these airports consistent with official
overall U.S. policy for Japan and the Far East should be com-
municated to CINCFE. There can be no question of the emphasis
in the Kennan report given to reduction of the occupation
burden on the Japanese, made up so largely of this type of
project.
The procedural problem is one of adjustment to the.
answer to the above substantive problem. If we decide to
continue building military airports in Japan, I doubt if we
would wish to leave the above quoted provision in the aviation
paper. We might move to delete the provision on the grounds
that the Soviets have indicated it is unacceptable to them; --
they have proposed an even more restrictive provision which
we have said is unacceptable to us. If we decide not to con-
tinue building military airports, and to destroy or shorten
those we have built, we could accept the provision as present-
ly written.
My recommendation would be that we attempt now to clari-
fy the situation with respect to these airports with the
Army and the JCs. If it appeers impcssible to arrive at an
understanding on the problem in a feirly brief period of time,
we might propose in the FEC that the quoted provision be
deleted for the reasons given above, rather than remain too
long without a position on a paper of this type.
RAY
NA:RAFearey:lt
SECRET

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.96)
FDREIGN SERVICE
-ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
STATE
54
RANCH
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, May 29, 1948.
NO. 316
()
UNCLASSTFJED
459045
4
0
STATE
in Japan.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose five
copies of a monograph dated January 1948 by the Foreign Office of
894.796/5-2948
the Japanese Government concerning the problem of civil aviation
in Japan.
As the preface to the monograph indicates, it is intended to
give a brief survey of the handicaps w ich the Japanese people will
TO.
FE
experience as a result of their inability to have access to the
0
ED
facilities of civil aviation. The benefits to be derived from
civil aviation, particularly with regard to agriculture and the re-
lief of national disasters, and the probl ems that will arise if
these services are not available to Japan after a peace settlement,
are emphasized. It is not believed, however, that the enclosed
monograph presents any cogent arguments which should induce a re-
consideration of either current or long-term policy with regard to
CS/A
civil aviation in Japan.
Enclosure:
0
Five copies of monograph
by Japanese Foreign Office,
874.7
January 1948.
879.6
RBFinn:cgf
Original and ozalid to the Department///
2
UNCLASSIFIED
7m

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.90)
SECRET
SIGNED & RECEI
SAMACC
MENGRANDON POR THS SECEBTARY, SANAGO
Subjeet: Poliey for Civil Artatiem ia Japem
(Referenoe, sumcc 379 Seriee)
In order to arrive at a course of action dealing vith the questiem ef
894.796/8=3048
sion, the Department of State prepared and propesed for dispatek te emoms
the cable set out in Appendix A. After consideration by represeatatives of
the Depertments of the Aray. Navy and Air Poree, it was dispataked to amem
13 August 1948. A reply has been received, Appendix B, stating that Gmmm
has no objection to the propesal and general content of the eable and stat-
ing that the Gemmanding Gemeral, Far East Air Foree, concurs.
The Department of State, therefore,propeses that the U. S. adept as its
sien be instructed to approve a poliey paper sabstaatively egaivalems te tas
paper set out at Appeadix C. If shis prepesal is aeeeptabie te she ether
members of the Committee, the Department of State will megetiate the paper
with the mamber nations of the F0, as sot out in paragraphe 5 and 6 of the
cable at Appendix A.
In order that this preposal may be diseussed with the apprepriste
members of the Far Rasterm Comnission prier to the retarm of the Commissiem
A/MJS
Septesber 7, it is requested that this matter be handled as a matter of
urgeney and by iaformal clearanee if possible.
sa100 379/1. the proposed policy as preseated by the state member
prier to the exahange of eables at Appendiess A and B, was referred te the
Joint dhiefs of Staff for semment from a military poiat of viow. mis
cemmeat has not yet beem received by sakacc. The prepesal set eut Sn
Appeméix C is different from the ene made in sakacc s79/1 and has maw besm
appreved by Gnors and the Comnanding Gemeral, Far East Air Feree. In erder
to permit the earliest astion on Appendix C, it is smggested that the
individual members of sašacc determine whether the prepesal is umobjecties-
able to their respeetive Chiefs of Staff from a military point of view.
SECRET FILE
6
State Nember
Attaskments:
Appendix A
DUR
PTE Un
Appendix B
Appendix C
O:PPClarton:br
SECRET
89
2620

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRÉT
August 26, 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY, SANACC
Subject: Policy for Civil Aviation in Japan
Reference, SiNCc 379 Series
In order to arrive at a course of action dealing with the question
of Civil Aviation in Japan, a paper on which is before the Far Eastern
Commission, the Department of State prepared and proposed for dispatch
to SCAf the cable set cut in Appendix A. After consideratien by repre-
sentatives of the Departments of the Army, Navy and Air Feree, it was
dispatched to SCAt 13 August 1948. A reply has been received, Appendix B,
stating thet SCAi has no objection to the proposal and general content of
the cable and stating that the Commanding Ganeral, Far East Air Foree,
concurs.
The Department of State, therefore, proposes that the U. S. adopt
as its position regarding FEC 245/18, Policy for Civil Aviation in Japan,
the paper set out at Appendix C, and that the U. S. amber of the Far
Eastern Commission be instructed to approve a policy paper substantively
equivalent to the paper set out at Appendix C. If this proposal is
acceptable to the other members of the Committee, the Department of State
will negotiate the paper with the member nations of the FiC, as set out
in paragraphs 5 and 6 or the cable at Appanaix A.
SANACC 379/1, the proposed policy as presented by the State member
prior to the exchange of cables at Appendices A and B, was referred to
the Joint Chiefs of Staff for comment from a military point of view. It
is assumed that in view of SCAr's reply (Appendix B) the Jeint Chiefs of
Staff will have no objection to the course of action set out in Appendix A
and the policy statement set out at Appandix C.
In order that this proposal may be discussed with the appropriate
members of the Far Eastern Commission prior to the return of the Commission
September 7, it is requested that this matter be handled as a matter of
urgency and by informal clearance if possible, and that the individual
members of SAN CC determine whether the proposal is wiobjectionable to
their respective Chiefs of taff from a mllitary point of view.
Frach 6. Win
SECRE
Attachments:
P. . Claxton,-dr.
Appendix A
Appendix B
Appendix C
NA OF
OFD AU L
Sma Pn
Th Raye Mcker/

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
COPY NO.
28
SANACC 379/2
30 August 1948
Pages 33 - 41,1nc1.
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
POLICY FOR CIVIL AVIATION IN JAPAN
Reference:
SANACC 379/1
Note by the Secretaries
The enclosure, a memorandum by the State Member, is cirou-
lated for consideration by the Committee as a natter of URGENCY.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
J. B. CRESAP
V. F. FIELD
Secretariat

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
SEC RBT
ENCLOSURE
POLICY FOR CIVIL AVIATION IN JAPAN
Memorandum by the State Member
In order to arrive at a course of action dealing with the
question of Civil Aviation in Japan, a paper on which is before
the Far Eastern Commission, the Department of State prepared and
proposed for dispatch to CINCFE the cable set out in Appendix "A".
After consideration by representatives of the Departments of the
Army, Navy and Air Force, it was dispatched to CINCFE 13 August
1948. A reply has been received, Appendix "B", stating that
CINCFE has no objection to the proposal and general content of
the cable and stating that the Commanding General, Far East Air
Force, concurs.
The Department of State, therefore, proposes that the U.S.
adopt as its position regarding FEC 245/18, Policy for Civil
Aviation in Japan, the paper set out at Appendix "c", and that
the U.S. Member of the Far Eastern Commission be instructed to
approve a policy paper substantively equivalent to the paper set
out at Appendix "C". If this proposal is acceptable to the other
members of the Comnittee, the Department of State will negotiate
the paper with the member nations of the FEC, as set out in para-
graphs 5 and 6 of the cable at Appendix "A".
In order that this proposal may be discussed with the appro-
priate members of the Far Eastern Commission prior to the return
of the Commission September 7, it is requested that this matter
be handled as a matter of urgency and by informal clearance if
possible.
SANACC 379/1, the proposed policy as presented by the State
member prior to the exchange of cables at Appendices "A" and "B",
was referred to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for comment from a

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
ENCLOSURE
POLICY FOR CIVIL AVIATION IN JAPAN
Memorandum by the State Member
In order to arrive at a course of action dealing with the
question of Civil Aviation in Japan, a paper on which is before
the Far Eastern Commission, the Department of State prepared and
proposed for dispatch to CINCFE the cable set out in Appendix "A".
After consideration by representatives of the Departments of the
Army, Navy and Air Force, it was dispatched to CINCFE 13 August
1948.
A reply has been received, Appendix "B", stating that
CINCFE has no objection to the proposal and general content of
the cable and stating that the Commanding General, Far East Air
Force, concurs.
The Department of State, therefore, proposes that the U.S.
adopt as its position regarding FEC 245/18, Policy for Civil
Aviation in Japan, the paper set out at Appendix "c", and that
the U.S. Member of the Far Eastern Comnission be instructed to
approve a policy paper substantively equivalent to the paper set
out at Appendix "C".
If this proposal is acceptable to the other
members of the Comnittee, the Department of State will negotiate
the paper with the member nations of the FEC, as set out in para-
graphs 5 and 6 of the cable at Appendix "A".
In order that this proposal may be discussed with the appro-
priate members of the Far Eastern Comaission prior to the return
of the Commission September 7, it is requested that this matter
be handled as a matter of urgency and by informal clearance if
possible.
SANACC 379/1, the proposed policy as presented by the State
member prior to the exchange of cables at Appendices "A" and "B",
was referred to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for comment from a
military point of view.
This comment has not yet been received
by SANACC. The proposal set out in Appendix "c" is different from
the one made in SANACC 379/1 and has now been approved by CINCFE
SANACC 379/2
- 33 -
Enclosure
S E C R E T

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
S E C R E T
and the Commanding General, Far East Air Force. In order to
permit the earliest action on Appendix "c", it is suggested that
the individual members of SANACC determine whether the proposal
is unobjectionable to their respective Chiefs of Staff from a
military point of view.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET
APPENDIX "A"
13 August 1948
SCAP
Number: WAR 87663
From CSGPO reourad WAR 84724, ourad WAR 85330, and urad CX 61890.
Subject is FEC Policy Paper on Civil Aviation in Japan.
Your recommendations have been carefully considered here.
2. Change suggested part 2 (A) believed unnecessary since
paper deals only with Civil Air carriers and grant of authority
in paper to Civil Air carriers to utilize Japanese Nationals
for ground service does not in any way limit existing authority
of SCAP to use Japanese Nationals for his own purposes. Intro-
duction in FEC of suggested amendment would result in unnecessary
discussion and explanation which is preferable to avoid.
3. Change suggested part 2 (B) to limit Civil Air carriers
to those "whose governments deal in free and open international
reciprocal agreements", together with explanation your part
three (B) have been exhaustively considered. Although purpose of
suggestion full appreciated, Department of State has concluded
that this suggestion states a condition beyond the legel compet-
ence of the Far Eastern Commission to prescribe. Thorough con-
sideration has been given to possibility of other wording capable
of laying down a policy exclusion which would make it unnecessary
for SCAP to rely on administrative action to preclude development
of Soviet Commercial service to Japan. No such provision has
been found which is within the legal competence of FEC.
4. Conclusion here of State Department is to proceed from
following principles:
(A) It is desirable to obtain FEC approval of our policy
with regard to Civil Aviation in Japan, or majority approval
prior to issuance interim directive.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
●
APPENDIX "A"
13 August 1948
SCAP
Number: WAR 87663
From CSGPO reourad WAR 84724, ourad WAR 85330, and urad CX 61890.
Subject is FEC Policy Paper on Civil Aviation in Japan.
Your recommendations have been carefully considered here.
2. Change suggested part 2 (A) believed unnecessary since
paper deals only with Civil Air carriers and grant of authority
in paper to Civil Air carriers to utilize Japanese Nationals
for ground service does not in any way limit existing authority
of SCAP to use Japanese Nationals for his own purposes. Intro-
duction in FEC of suggested amendment would result in unnecessary
discussion and explanation which is preferable to avoid.
3.
Change suggested part 2 (B) to limit Civil Air carriers
to those "whose governments deal in free and open international
reciprocal agreements", together with explanation your part
three (B) have been exhaustively considered. Although purpose of
suggestion full appreciated, Department of State has concluded
that this suggestion states a condition beyond the legal compet-
ence of the Far Eastern Commission to prescribe. Thorough con-
sideration has been given to possibility of other wording capable
of laying down a policy exclusion which would make it unnecessary
for SCAP tc rely on administrative action to preclude development
of Soviet Commercial service to Japan. No such provision has
been found which is within the legal competence of FEC.
4. Conclusion here of State Department is to proceed from
following principles:
(A) It is desirable to obtain FEC approval of our policy
with regard to Civil Aviation in Japan, or majority approval
prior to issuance interim directive.
(B) Recommendation one of NSC 15/1 sent you in WAR 85330,
7 July 1948, should be treated as intended to apply to Japan
SANACC 379/2
-35-
Appendix "A"
SECRET

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
S E C R E T
and it should be considered best to find some means of
handling the question in the FEC that would not involve
any relaxation of our policy as set forth in recommendation
one.
5. In order to carry out principles (A) and (B) stated
above, discussions will be held by State Department Officers
and US representatives on FEC with Embassy Officers and repre-
sentatives of other FEC members, looking toward acceptance of
amendments already tentatively agreed to as part of US position
sent you in WAR 84724, 25 June 1948, and the fo11owing intro-
ductory clause to paragraph three of the US position as sent.
you; "Upon a finding by SChP that oxpansion of trade or economic
or cultural benefits of mutual advantage to Japan and the United
Nations countries would be thereby achieved in each case Civil
Air carriers of United Nations Member States duly authorized by
their Governments to operate to Japan should be permitted by SCAP
on a nondiscriminatory basis consistent with security under
standards of operation set by SCAP and within the limits of
6. If such negotiations indicate that the proposal is gener-
ally acceptable to the other FEC members or if a counter sugges-
tion made by any of then is acceptable to the US and generally
to the other members, the US would plan to adopt such position in
the FEC and
to issue an interim directive if the policy paper is
not adopted in the FEC.
If the above proposal is not generally
acceptable to FEC members and if
no counter proposal is accept-
able to the US, then the US must decide whether it can accept an
FEC policy paper with less rigid provisions or whether it is
necessary to conclude that the US can not agree to any policy
paper for Civil Aviation for Japan.
7. In connection with the proposed rewording of paragraph
three, it is pointed out that the rewording, if accepted, would

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
●
and it should be considered best to find some means of
handling the question in the FEC that would not involve
any relaxation of our policy as set forth in recommendation
one.
5.
In order to carry out principles (A) and (B) stated
above, discussions will be held by State Department Officers
and US representatives on FEC with Embassy Officers and repre-
sentatives of other FEC members, looking toward acceptance of
amendments already tentatively agreed to as part of US position
sent you in WAR 84724, 25 June 1948, and the fo1lowing intro-
ductory clause to paragraph three of the US position as sent.
you; "Upon a finding by SCiP that expansion of trade or economic
or cultural benefits of mutual advantage to Japan and the United
Nations countries would be thereby achieved in each case Civil
Air carriers of United Nations Member States duly authorized by
their Governments to operate
to Japan should be permitted by SCAP
on a nondiscriminatory basis consistent with security under
standards of operation set by SCAP and within the limits of
availability of facilities. .
6.
If such negotiations indicate that the proposal is gener-
ally acceptable to the other FEC members or
if a counter sugges-
tion made by any of then is acceptable to the US and generally
to the other members, the US would plan to adopt such position in
the FEC
and
to issue an interim directive if the policy paper is
not adopted
in the FEC.
If the
above proposal is not generally
acceptable to FEC members and
if
no counter proposal is accept-
able to the US, then the US must
decide whether it can accept an
FEC policy paper with less rigid provisions or whether it is
necessary to conclude that the US can not agree to any policy
paper for Civil Aviation for Japan.
7.
In connection with the proposed rewording of paragraph
three, it is pointed out that the rewording, if accepted, would
provide for administrative authority to SCAP
to admit Civil
Aviation on basis of criteria wholly within SCAp's competence
SANACC 379/2
-36 -
Appendix "A"
SE C R ET

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
and not directly related to aviation. This provision is regarded
as completely within the competence of the FEC to adopt or the
US to lay down in an interim directive. State is of opinion
that it will allow SCAP the broadest and most unimpeachable
discretion to control foreign Civil Aviation entering Japan.
It
is recognized as conceivable that any country, including the
Soviets, wishing to send some Civil Aviation planes to Japan
may bring sufficiently logical arguments to bear that such
aviation is of mutual advantage to the expansion of trade or
economic or cultural benefits to Japan and the United Nations
that SCAP would find it impossible not to allow entry of some
very small nunber of planes. It is expected in such cases that
SCAP will have established and can administer and enforce such
technical regulations as to keep such flights within reasonable
bounds of security.
8. Prior to undertaking above mentioned program, your views
requested regarding above proposals and particularly suggested
modifying language for paragraph three. Exact phraseology not
regarded as rigid and would appreciate any thoughts you may have
for inprovement along sane line or suggestions for better
approach within competence of FEC.
Meanwhile Departments of Army,
Navy, Air Force are studying State Department conclusions set
forth in preceding paragraphs.
9.
State most anxious to have US position in FEC ready by
time it reconvenes first week in September. In view necessity
early consultations with FEC member countries your reply by 20
August requested.
Note: CX 61890 is CM IN 84 (1 Jul 48)
CM OUT 87663 (Aug 48)

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
S E C R E T
APPENDIX "B"
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSCAD PG
Info:
COMGENFEAF
Nr:
CX 63252
24 August 1948
Subject is Civil Aviation in Japan. Reurad W 87663 dtd
17 August 1948.
SCAP has no objection to the proposal and general content
of reference radio. Commanding General, Far East Air Forces
concurs.
CM IN 4825
(24 Aug 48)

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
S E C R E T
APPENDIX "C"
PROPOSED U.S. POLICY ON NON-JAPANESE CIVIL
AVIATION IN JAPAN
(1) Participation by Japanese Nationals in Aviation Activities
During the period of occupation, Japanese nationals should
not be permitted to engage in flight operations, unless it shall
be determined by SCAP that such flight operations should be
permitted in the interests of furthering the objectives of the
occupation and that such flight operations will not constitute
a threat to the security of any member of the United Nations.
However, SCAP may authorize civil air carriers to utilize Japanese
nationals in connection with the maintenance and operation of
aviation ground facilities and services, provided, that no Japan-
ese national may be employed in any aviation related activity
which will develop skills or experience dangerous from the
security point of view. Both the job and the person to be used
therein must be specifically approved by SCAP. All Japanese
so employed should be engaged under employment practices which
will minimize the labor turnover and the consequent spread of
skills and experience in aviation related activitios.
(2) Internal Air Transport Service
If at any time it seems desirable to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers to establish a civil air transport service
between points in Japan he should so notify the Far Eastern
Commission requesting a policy decision. If after the expiration
of 60 days from the date of receipt by the FEC of said notifica-
tion no policy has been approved by the FEC which would prohibit
the establishment of a civil air transport service between points
in Japan, SCAP may act to establish said service as required to :
meet the need as communicated to the FEc. In the meantime no
internal civil air service should be operated in Japan.
(3) International Service to and Through Japan

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
APPENDIX "C"
PROPOSED U.S. POLICY ON NON-JAPANESE CIVIL
AVIATION IN JAPAN
(1) Participation by Japanese Nationals in Aviation Activities
During the period of occupation, Japanese nationals should
not be permitted to engage in flight operations, unless it shall
be determined by SCAP that such flight operations should be
permitted in the interests of furthering the objectives of the
occupation and that such flight operations will not constitute
a threat to the security of any member of the United Nations.
However, SCAP may authorize civil air carriers to utilize Japanese
nationals in connection with the maintenance and operation of
aviation ground facilities and services, provided, that no Japan-
ese national may be employed in any aviation related activity
which will develop skills or experience dangerous from the
security point of view. Both the job and the person to be used
therein must be specifically approved by SCAP. All Japanese
so employed should be engaged under employment practices which
will minimize the labor turnover and the consequent spread of
skills and experience in aviation related activities.
(2)
Internal Air Transport Service
If at any time it seems desirable to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers to establish a civil air transport service
between points in Japan he should so notify the Far Eastern
Commission requesting a policy decision.
If after the expiration
of 60 days from the date of receipt by the FEC of said notifica-
tion no policy has been approved by the FEC which would prohibit
the establishment of a civil air transport service between points
in Japan, SCAP may act to establish said service as required to :
meet the need as communicated to the FEC.
In the meantime no
internal civil air service should be operated in Japan.
(3) International Service to and Through Japan
Upon a finding by SCAP that
expansion of trade or economic
or cultural benefits of mutual advantage to Japan and United
SANACC 379/2
- 39 -
Appendix
"C"
S E C R E T

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
●
Nations countries would be thereby achieved in each case, civil
air carriers of United Nations Member States duly authorized by
their governments to operate to Japan should be permitted by
SCAP, on a non-discriminatory basis and consistent with security
under standards of operation set by SCAP, and within the limits
of the availability of facilities to:
(a) Transit Japan.
(b) Make technical stops there en route to other
countries when such transit and stops are necessary for
efficient and direct route operation.
(c) Carry passengers, cargo, and mail into, through and
away from Japan, but not from one place to another in Japan,
over routes which they have been specifically authorized to
fly by their respective governments. The proscription of
this paragraph shall be in effect only so long as is the
proscription in paragreph 2.
(4) Aviation Facilities
SCAP should control and supervise the installation, main-
tenance and operation of all aviation ground facilities, utilized
in Japan by civil air carriers. Any use by civil air carriers
of Japanese goods, services or facilities should be subject to
appropriate and non-discriminatory payment in any foreign exchange
useful for the purchase of imports for Japan or in local currency,
in accordance with the laws and regulations in force in Japan.
The number and size of aerodromes and the aviation facilities
available in Japan should be strictly limited to those required
for the purposes of the occupation including the needs of civil
aviation determined in accordance with the provisions of this
paper.
(5) Technical Regulations
Civil operations to and through Japan should be conducted
within regulations established, administered, and enforced by
SCAP.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
S E C R E T
(6) The provisions of this paper should not apply to the means
of air transportation serving the needs of the Allied Council
for Japan and its personnel or to other official government
flights which are non-commercial in character.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.97)
28
SECRET
COPY NO.
1 September 1948
le
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COIMITTEE
MEMORANDUM FOR HOLDERS OF SANACC 379/2
994.796/8-3.46
POLICY FOR CIVIL AVIATION IN JAPAN
2485
Note by the Secretaries
Holders of SANACC 379/2 are requested to substitute the
attached revised page 34 for the one contained therein and
destroy the superseded page by burning.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
J. B. CRESAP
M. V. BROKAW
Secretariat
C3
S

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.96)
S E C R ET
and the Commanding General, Far East Air Force. In order to
permit the earliest action on Appendix "C", it is suggested
that the SANACC determine whether the proposal 1s unobjeotionable
to the Joint Chiefs of Staff from a military point of view.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.92)
FORM D8-323
7-18-46
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
RESTRICTED
Washington,
NO.A-134
Sopt. 27, 1948
2502
894.796/9-848
2502
USPOLAD,
TOKYO.
REURDESP 570 Sept 1. Assume last sentence para two above despatch
does not repeat not refer to cabotage rights, the granting of which would
be subject to provisions para two, Appendix "C" SANACC 379/2 pending final
action by FEC on proposed policy governing Civil Aviation in Japan.
9-8481
694.003
194.790
Lonetr
LOVETT Acting
actg
子
CS/V
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
NE
894.796
frors
gra
TRC:AV/RAThayer:njt
9/20/48
OFD
-848
0.1745
CR CLEARANCE
RESTRICTED
Kr
25 1948
ar

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.93)
Tac
SEP171948
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 570
Tokyo, September 1, 1948.
RESTRICTED
Roc'd
Sopt.10
Subject: Extension of British Overseas Airways Corporation Flying
AC210
Boat Service to Yokohama, Japan.
O2D
THFO
iR
VISION
DCR
The lionorable
ITP
The Secretary of State,
2
Washington, D.C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1948
TRO
Sir:
CLA-6
C-
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatches no.
CABOCNG
291, May 18, 1949 and no. 312, May 23, 1948, forwarding copie8 of
the license and an amendment thereto issued to the British Over-
seas Airways Corporation to engage in business in Japan, and to
1
enclose a copy of a memor andum dated August 26, 1948 from General
Headquarters, Juprene Co:uander for the Allied Powers, to the
United Xingdom Liaison Mission in Japan permitting an extension of
BOAC flying boat service to Yokohama. The memorandum stipulates
conditions ir: regard to operational details and logistic support,
2
and encloses a drawing of the general alighting area; three copies
of this drawin are enclosed with this despatch.
Official: of this Headquarters who are concerned with this
matter state that BoAc service to Yokohama will coamence as soon
as the necessary hysical arrangements have been completed. Once
the service to Yokohama has been established, BoAC will be authorized
to discharge an: pick up official mail and passengers only at
Yokohana. This condition was voluntarily agreed to by the British
while the terms of the license were under discussion. This Head-
quarters is now considerins the problen of whether private airlines
operating in Japan may dischar e and pick un carco and passengers
at more than one place and therefore no definite answer was made
to BOAc's request for such permission.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1. Copy of memorandum
dated August 26, 194?
from GHQ, SCAP, to
United Kingdom Liaison
Mission.
2.
Three copies drawing of
general alighting area.
879.6
RBFinn:cgf
Original and ozalid to the Department
RESTRICTED

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.85)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 570
dated September 1, 1948 from the Office
of the United tates Political Adviser
at Tokyo, on the subject: "Extension of
Britis!: Overseas Airways Corporation
Flying Boat Service to Yokohama, Japan."
GHMEL RAL HLADQUARTERS
SUFR  DLNDER FOR TIL ALLIND POWERS
AP0 500
26 August 1948
The ea  the United hingdom Liaison Mission in
 xtu sio  ritisr Overseas Airway: Corporation's
 a Dervivs  Yosohama.
Re le  fotowne
 ted tai soKn Jaan, refer
d1048.
Ferewee reresea atves  United Kingdom
ias s ina, ritLs Cverseas Airways Corporetion, Head
partrs, ar ast ir rers,  lemeral Headmarters, Supreme Com-
der  ?  2o.
tr.  rel ea r ruers. upree so anter for the
iewer
ce. to ncare in sires i Japan
1
 eemrieratandins reached in conference of 23
y  s e e, iy is ran ed to British Over
seas Airways Porpore on pe Topohe Hector o un alirhtiny area
.he
vegar  extension of service
to Yokohane d!
3.
 lanin ri verseas Airways
Cor pre rea e l re thoe in conduct
or :liyt unde: ia  Iules (looo ft. ccilina, 3 miles visa-
bility).
b. rti Aerseas Airways Corppretton will establish an
 noner statin i  Yokohana area as an  pmae aid for its air-
craft alighti g in Yokona le Harbor.
c. All itin area will require no restrictions as to the
operations of surface craft. After British Overseas Airways Corpo-
ration aircraft becale water-borne, they are sut ject to mules and
re ntlations o? Tokohana Harbor for movement of surface craft.
c. British Overseas Airways Cor oration will install three
moorings in te inner vasin of Yoxohana Harbor for mooring aircraft
while in Yokohana lHarbor.
e. British

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.88)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 570, Septmber 1, 1948
-2-
e. british verseas Airway: Corporation wdll station in
Yokohama Harbor a laune carryin: racdio for VHF contact wdth Tolgo
and Haneda cont rols ani with British Overseas Airways Corporation
aircraft in flight.
f. Britisn Overseas Airwys Corporation wdll lease two
Nissen hits in tre area of Yok hana Yacht Club to be usod as it
terminal facility. These Nissen huts, now under control of the
Eig hth Arny, wil te rele sel y the Jccupation Forces te the Jape
nese Jov r ent or e  he ritish. Overseas Airways Corporation.
ritish Uv-rseas irways Corporation wll lease such.
faciliti (stiff njuses, etc.) as required for their operations
all: ata  e Tox-fokohana area I accordance with General Hoad
puart s, u. reie a ler for tr.e allied rowers, regulations.
n. . etmleum : roducts to meet British Uverseas Airway
vorporali necs y  procured either fro the United tate Ay
or fro: -ritis one ltn ccupation Forces until such produots
econe uvutla: le co ercielly.
At acrawigof tenerai ali iting area and ap
pria'e mues ris  be used as a guide in the establish-
mn f e  ili ie: l of arees of rus onsibilities therofor.
5. Yoa rr ues for uthorizati  lisetrge and pick up
re Lii:inive consideration
vi.
o. eforee iret p i accoroice wit the pro
vi iens cot pined r  I is repitsten that the British Ovoroe
Airwa corporota vied.
A..
For
Y
Colonei, A
A.: jutant General
1 1.1
Ji: r  o i. para 4 bove.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
AV-Thayu
75
SECRET
COPY NO.
8 September 1948
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
DECISION ON SANACC 379/2
POLICY FOR CIVIL AVIATION IN JAPAN
Note by the Secretaries
1. By informel ection on 8 September 1948 the State-Army-
Navy-Air Force Coordinating Conmittee approved the proposed U.S.
Policy on Non-Japanese Civil Aviation in Japan contained in
Appendix "C", SANACC 379/2. A copy has been forwarded to the
Depertment of State for appropriate action.
2. On 8 September 1948 the Joint Chiefs of Staff informed
the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Cominittee that they
lhad considered Appendix "C", SANACC 379/2 and perceived no
objection from e military point of view.
3. In view of the above, no further action is necessary
on SANACC 379/1 and it is removed from the SANACC agenda.
H. W. MO SELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
J. B. CRESAP
M. V. BROKW
Secretariat

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY NO.
SECRET
SANACC 379/2
30 August 1948
Pages 33 - 41, incl.
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
POLICY FOR CIVIL AVIATION IN JAPAN
Reference:
SANACC 379/1
Note by the Secretaries
The enclosure, a memorandum by the State Member, is cirou-
lated for consideration by the Committee as a matter of URGENCY.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
J. B. CRESAP
V. F. FIELD
Secretariat

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
..
SEC RET
ENCLOSURE
POLICY FOR CIVIL AVIATION IN JAPAN
Memorandum by the State Member
In order to arrive at a course of action dealing with the
question of Civil Aviation in Japan, a paper on which is before
the Far Eastern Commission, the Department of State prepared and
proposed for dispatch to CINCFE the cable set out in Appendix "A".
After consideration by representatives of the Departments of the
Army, Navy and Air Force, it was dispatched to CINCFE 13 August
1948.
A reply has been received, Appendix "B", stating that
CINCFE has no objection to the proposal and general content of
the cable and stating that the Commanding General, Far East Air
Force, concurs.
The Department of State, therefore, proposes that the U.S.
adopt as its position regarding FEC 245/18, Policy for Civil
Aviation in Japan, the paper set out at Appendix "c", and that
the U.S. Member of the Far Eastern Cormission be instructed to
approve a policy paper substantively equivalent to the paper set
out at Appendix "c". If this proposal is acceptable to the other
members of the Comnittee, the Department of State will negotiate
the paper with the member nations of the FEC, as set out in para-
graphs 5 and 6 of the cable at Appendix "A".
In order that this proposal may be discussed with the appro-
priate members of the Far Eastern Comnission prior to the return
of the Commission September 7, it is requested that this matter
be handled as a matter of urgency and by informal clearance if
possible.
SANACC 379/1, the proposed policy as presented by the State
member prior to the exchange of cables at Appendices "A" and "B",
was referred to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for comment from a
military point of view. This comment has not vet been received

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
ENCLOSURE
POLICY FOR CIVIL AVIATION IN JAPAN
Memorandum by the State Member
In order to arrive at a course of action dealing with the
●
question of Civil Aviation in Japan, a paper on which is before
the Far Eastern Commission, the Department of State prepared and
proposed for dispatch to CINCFE the cable set out in Appendix "A".
After consideration by representatives of the Departments of the
Army, Navy and Air Force, it was dispatched to CINCFE 13 August
1948.
A reply has been received, Appendix "B", stating that
CINCFE has no objection to the proposal and general content of
the cable and stating that the Commanding General, Far East Air
Force, concurs.
The Department of State, therefore, proposes that the U.S.
adopt as its position regarding FEC 245/18, Policy for Civil
Aviation in Japan, the paper set out at Appendix "c", and that
the U.S. Member of the Far Eastern Commission be instructed to
approve a policy paper substantively equivalent to the paper set
out at Appendix "c".
If this proposal is acceptable to the other
members of the Committee, the Department of State will negotiate
the paper with the member nations of the FEC, as set out in para-
graphs 5 and 6 of the cable at Appendix "A".
In order that this proposal may be discussed with the appro-
priate members of the Far Eastern Commission prior to the return
of the Commission September 7, it is requested that this matter
be handled as a matter of urgency and by informal clearance if
possible.
SANACC 379/1, the proposed policy as presented by the State
member prior to the exchange of cables at Appendices "A" and "B",
was referred to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for comment from a
military point of view.
This comment has not yet been received
by SANACC.
The proposal set out in Appendix "c" is different from
the one made in SANACC 379/1 and has now been approved by CINCFE
SANACC 379/2
- 33 -
Enclosure
SECRET

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
S E C R E T
and the Commanding General, Far East Air Force. In order to
permit the earliest action on Appendix "C", it is suggested
that the SANACC determine whether the proposal 1s unobjeotionable
to the Joint Chiefs of Staff from a military point of view..

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
SEC RE T
APPENDIX "A"
13 August 1948
SCAP
Number: WAR 87663
Fron CSGP0 reourad WAR 84724, ourad WAR 85330, and urad CX 61890.
Subject is FEC Policy Paper on Civil Aviation in Japan.
Your recommendations have been carefully considered here.
2. Change suggested part 2 (A) believed unnecessary since
paper deals crly with Civil Air carriers and grant of authority
in paper to Civil Air carriers to utilize Japanese Nationals
for ground service does not in any way limit existing authority
of SCAP to use Japanese Nationals for his own purposes. Intro-
duction in FEc of suggested amendment would result in unnecessary
discussion and explanation which is preferable to avoid.
3. Change suggested part 2 (B) to limit Civil Air carriers
to those "whose governments deal in free and open international
reciprocal agreements", together with explanation your part
three (B) have been cxhaustively considered. Although purpose of
suggestion full appreciated, Department of State has concluded
that this suggestion st: tes a condition beyond the legal compet-
ence of the Far Eastern Conuission to prescribe. Thorough con-
sideration has been given to possibility of other wording capable
of laying down a policy exclusion which would ncke it unnecessary
for SCAP to rely on administrative action to preclude development
of Soviet Commercial service to Japan. No such provision has
been found which is within the legal competence of FEC.
4. Conclusion here of State Department is to proceed from
following principles:
(A) It is desirable to obtain FEC approval of our policy
with regard to Civil Aviation in Japan, or majority approval
prior to issuance interim directive.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
SEURET
APPENDIX "A"
13 August 1948
SCAP
Number: WAR 87663
Fron CSGP0 reourad WAR 84724, ourad WAR 85330, and urad CX 61890.
Subject is FEC Policy Paper on Civil Aviation in Japan.
Your recomnendations have been carefully considered here.
2. Change suggested part 2 (A) believed unnecessary since
paper deals only with Civil Air carriers and grant of authority
in paper to Civil Air carriers to utilize Japanese Nationals
for ground service does not in any way limit existing authority
of SCAP to use Japanese Nationals for his own purposes. Intro-
duction in FEc of suggested amendment would result in unnecessary
discussion and explanation which is preferable to avoid.
3.
Change suggested part 2 (B) to limit Civil Air carriers
to those "whose governments deal in free and open international
reciprocal agreements", together with explanation your part
three (B) have been oxhaustively considered.
. Although purpose of
suggestion full appreciated, Department of State has concluded
that this suggestion states a condition beyond the legal compet-
ence of the Far Eastern Coru:ission to prescribe. Thorough con-
sideration has been given to possibility of other wording capable
of laying down a policy exclusion which would mcke it unnecessary
for SCAP to rely on administrative action to preclude development
of Soviet Commercial service to Japan. No such provision has
been found which is within the legal conpetence of FEC.
4. Conclusion here of State Department is to proceed from
following principles:
(A) It is desirable to obtain FEC approval of our policy
with regard to Civil Aviation in Japan, or majority approval
prior to issuance interim directive.
(B) Recommendation one of NSC 15/1 sent you in WAR 85330,
7 July 1948, should be treated as intended to apply to Japan
SANACC 379/2
-35-
Appendix "A"
SECRET

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
S E C R E T
and it should be considered best to find some means of
handling the question in the FEC that would not involve
any relaxation of our policy as set forth in recommendation
one.
5. In order to carry out principles (A) and (B) stated
above, discussions will be held by State Department Officers
and US representatives on FEC with Embassy Officers and repre-
sentatives of other FEC members, looking toward acceptance of
amendments already tentatively agreed to as part of Us position
sent you in WAR 84724, 25 June 1948, and the fo1lowing intro-
ductory clause to paragraph three of the US position as sent
you; "Upon a finding by SCAP that expansion of trade or economic
or cultural benefits of mutual advantage to Japan and the United
Nations countries would be thereby achieved in each case Civil
Air carriers of United Nations Member States duly authorized by
their Governments to operate to Japan should be permitted by SCAP
on a nondiscriminatory basis consistent with security under
standards of operation set by SCAP and within the limits of
6. If such negotiations indicate that the proposal is gene:-
ally acceptable to the other FEC members or if a counter sugges-
tion made by any of then is acceptable to the US and generally
to the other members, the US would plan to adopt such position in
the FEC and to issue an interim directive if the policy paper is
not adopted in the FEC.
If the above proposal is not generally
acceptable to FEC members and if no counter proposal is accept-
able to the US, then the US must decide whether it can accept an
FEC policy paper with less rigid provisions or whether it is
necessary to conclude that the US can not agree to any policy
paper for Civil Aviation for Japan.
7. In connection with the proposed rewording of paragraph
three, it is pointed out that the rewording, if accepted, would

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
and it should be considered best to find some means of
handling the question in the FEC that would not involve
any relaxation of our policy as set forth in recommendation
one.
5. In order to carry out principles (A) and (B) stated
above, discussions will be held by State Department Officers
and US representatives on FEC with Embassy Officers and repre-
sentatives of other FEC members, looking toward acceptance of
amendments already tentatively agreed to as part of US position
sent you in WAR 84724, 25 June 1948, and the following intro-
ductory clause to paragraph three of the US position as sent.
you; "Upon a finding by SCAP that expansion of trade or economic
or cultural benefits of mutual advantage to Japan and the United
Nations countries would be thereby achieved in each case Civil
Air carriers of United Nations Member States duly authorized by
their Governments to operate to Japan should be permitted by SCAP
on a nondiscriminatory basis consistent with security under
standards of operation set by SCAP and within the limits of
6. If such negotiations indicate that the proposal is gener-
ally acceptable to the other FEC members or if
a counter sugges-
tion made by any of then is acceptable to the US and generally
to the other members, the US would plan to adopt such position in
the FEC and
to issue an interim directive if the policy paper is
not adopted in the FEC.
If the above proposal is not generally
acceptable to FEC members and if
no counter proposal is accept-
able to the US, then the US must decide whether it can accept an
FEC policy paper with less rigid provisions or whether it is
necessary to conclude that the US can not agree to any policy
paper for Civil Aviation for Japan.
7.
In connection with the proposed rewording of paragraph
three, it is pointed out that the rewording, if accepted, would
provide for administrative authority to SCAP to admit Civil
Aviation on basis of criteria wholly within SCAP's competence
SANACC 379/2
-36-
Appendix "A"
S E C R E T

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
and not directly related to aviation. This provision is regarded
as completely within the competence of the FEC to adopt or the
US to lay down in an interim directive. State is of opinion
that it will allow SCAP the broadest and most unimpeachable
discretion to control foreign Civil Aviation entering Japan.
It
is recognized as conceivable that any country, including the
Soviets, wishing to send some Civil Aviation planes to Japan
may bring sufficiently logical arguments to bear that such
aviation is of mutual advantage to the expansion of trade or
economic or cultural benefits to Japan and the United Nations
that SCAP would find it impossible not to allow entry of some
very small nunber of planes. It is expected in such cases that
ScAP will have established and can administer and enforce such
technical regulations as to keep such flights within reasonable
bounds of security.
8. Prior to undertaking above mentioned program, your views
requested regarding above proposals and particularly suggested
modifying language for paragraph three. Exact phraseology not
regarded as rigid and would appreciate any thoughts you may have
for improvement along sane line or suggestions for better
approach within competence of FEC.
Meanwhile Departments of Army,
Navy, Air Force are studying State Department conclusions set
forth in preceding paragraphs.
9.
State most anxious to have US position in FEC ready by
time it reconvenes first week in September. In view necessity
early consultations with FEC member countries your reply by 20
August requested.
Note:
CX 61890 is CM IN 84 (1 Ju1 48)
CM OUT 87663 (Aug 48)

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
and not directly related to aviation. This provision is regarded
as completely within the competence of the FEC to adopt or the
US to lay down in an interim directive. State is of opinion
that it will allcw SCAP the broadest and most unimpeachable
discretion to control foreign Civil Aviation entering Japan.
It
is recognized as conceivable that any country, including the
Soviets, wishing to send some Civil Aviation planes to Japan
may bring sufficiently logical arguments to bear that such
aviation is of mutual advantage to the expansion of trade or
economic or cultural benefits to Japan and the United Nations
that SCAP would find it impossible not to allow entry of some
very small number of planes. It is expected in such cases that
SCAP will have established and can administer and enforce such
technical regulations as to keep such flights within reasonable
bounds of security.
8. Prior to undertaking above mentioned program, your views
requested regarding above proposals and particularly suggested
modifying language for paragraph three. Exact phraseology not
regarded as rigid and would appreciate any thoughts you may have
for improvement along sane line or suggestions for better
approach within competence of FEC. Meanwhile Departments of Army,
Navy, Air Force are studying State Department conclusions set
forth in preceding paragraphs.
9.
State most anxious to have US position in FEC ready by
time it reconvenes first week in September. In view necessity
early consultations with FEC member countries your reply by 20
August requested.
Note: CX 61890 is CM IN 84 (1 Jul 48)
CM OUT 87663 (Aug 48)
SANACC 379/2
- 37-
Appendix "A"
S E C R E T

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
APPENDIX "B"
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSCAD PG
Info:
COMGENFEAF
Nr:
CX 63252
24 August 1948
Subject is Civil Aviation in Japan. Reurad W 87663 dtd
17 August 1948.
SCAP has no objection to the proposal and general content
of reference radio. Commanding General, Far East Air Forces
concurs.
CM IN 4825
(24 Aug 48)

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
S E C R E T
APPENDIX "C"
PROPOSED U.S. POLICY ON NON-JAPANESE CIVIL
AVIATION IN JAPAN
(1) Participation by Japanese Nationals in Aviation Activities
During the period of occupation, Japanese nationals should
not be permitted to engage in flight operations, unless it shall
be determined by SCAP that such flight operations should be
permitted in the interests of furthering the objectives of the
occupation and that such flight operations will not constitute
a threat to the security of any member of the United Nations.
However, SCAP may authorize civil air carriers to utilize Japanese
nationals in connection with the maintenance and operation of
aviation ground facilities and services, provided, that no Japan-
ese national may be employed in any aviation related activity
which will develop skills or experience dangerous from the
security point of view. Both the job and the person to be used
therein must be specifically approved by SCAP. All Japanese
so employed should be engaged under employment practices which
will minimize the labor turnover and the consequent spread of
skills and experience in aviation related activitios.
(2) Internal Air Transport Service
If at any tire it seems desirable to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers to establish a civil air transport service
between points in Japan ne shouid sdl notify the Far Eastern
Commission requesting a policy decision. If after the expiration
of 60 days from the date of receipt by the FEC of said notifica-
tion no policy has been approved by the FEC which would prohibit
the establishment of a civil air transport service between points
in Japan, SCAP may acty to establish said service as required to :
meet the need as communicated to the FEC.
In the meantime no
internal civil air service should be operated in Japan.
(3) International Service to and Through Japan

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
APPENDIX "C"
PROPOSED U.S. POLICY ON NON-JAPANESE CIVIL
AVIATION IN JAPAN
(1) Participation by Japanese Nationals in Aviation Activities
During the period of occupation, Japanese nationals should
not be permitted to engage in flight operations, unless it shall
be determined by SCAP that such flight operations should be
permitted in the interests of furthering the objectives of the
occupation and that such flight operations will not constitute
a threat to the security of any member of the United Nations.
However, SCAP may authorize civil air carriers to utilize Japanese
nationals in connection with the maintenance and operation of
aviation ground facilities and services, provided, that no Japan-
ese national may be employed in any aviation related activity
which will develop skills or experience dangerous from the
security point of view. Both the job and the person to be used
therein must be specifically approved by SCAP.
All Japanese
so employed should be engaged under employment practices which
will minimize the labor turnover and the consequent spread of
skills and experience in aviation related activities.
(2) Internal Air Transport Service
If at any time it seems desirable to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers to establish a civil air transport service
between points in Japan he shouid sdl notify the Far Eastern
Commission requesting a policy decision. If after the expiration
of 60 days from the date of receipt by the FEC of said notifica-
tion no policy has been approved by the FEC which would prohibit
the establishment of a civil air transport service between points
in Japan, SCAP may actto establish said service as required to :
meet the need as communicated to the FEC.
In the meantime no
internal civil air service should be operated in Japan.
(3) International Service to and Through Japan
A.Upon a finding by SCAP that expansion of trade or economic
or cultural benefits of mutual advantage to Japan and United
SANACC 379/2
- 39 -
Appendix
"C"
S E C R E T

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
SE C RET
Nations countries would be thereby achieved in each case, civil
air carriers of United Nations Member States duly authorized by
their governments to operate to Japan should be permitted by
SCAP, on a non-discriminatory basis and consistent with security
under standards of operation set by SCAP, and within the limits
of the availability of facilities to:
(a) Transit Japan.
(b) Make technical stops there en route to other
countries when such transit and stops are necessary for
efficient and direct route operation.
(c) Carry passengers, cargo, and mail into, through and
over routes which they have been specifically authorized to
fly by their respective governments. The prosoription of-
2
thie peragraph shaii be in effect only so long as is the
1
proscription-in-paragreph.2.
B. The gront of calulage nt to n slace he grened by
the piweerdue set farth ir para
(4) Aviation Facilities
SCAP should control and supervise the installation, main-
tenance and operation of all aviation ground facilities, utilized
in Japan by civil air carriers. Any use by civil air carriers
of Japanese goods, services or facilities should be subject to
appropriate and non-discriminatory payment in any foreign exchange
useful for the purchase of imports for Japan or in local currency,
in accordance with the laws and regulations in force in Japan.
The number and size of aerodromes and the aviation facilities
available in Japan should be strictly limited to those required
for the purposes of the occupation including the needs of civil
aviation determined in accordance with the provisions of this
paper.
(5) Technical Regulations
Civil operations to and through Japan should be conducted
within regulations established, administered, and enforced by
SCAP.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
S E C R E T
(6) The provisions of this paper should not apply to the means
of air transportation serving the needs of the Allied Council
for Jepan and its personnel or to other official government
flights which are non-commercial in character.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
75
COPY NO.
SECRET
1 September 1948
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
MEMORANDUM FOR HOLDERS OF SANACC 379/2
POLICY FOR CIVIL AVIATION IN JAPAN
Note by
the Secretaries
Holders of SANACC 379/2 are requested to subatitute the
attached revised page 34 for the one contained therein and
destroy the superseded page by burning.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
J. B. CRESAP
M. V. BROKAW
Secretariat

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.95)
COPY NO.
28
SECRET
8 September 1948
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
DECISION ON SANACC 379/2
POLICY FOR CIVIL AVIATION IN JAPAN
Note by the Secretaries
1. By informal action on 8 September 1948 the State-Army-
Havy-Air Force Coordinating Committee approved the proposed U.S.
Polioy on Non-Japonese Civil Aviation in Japan contained in
Appendix "C", SANACC 379/2. A copy has been forwarded to the
Depertment of State for appropriate action.
2. On 8 September 1948 the Joint Chiefs of Staff informed
the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Colmnittee that they
had considered Appendix "c", SANACC 379/2 and perceived no
objection from a military point of view.
3. In view of tho above, no further action is necessary
on SANACC 379/1 and it is rerioved fren the SANACC egende.
H. W. MO SELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
6
J. B. CRES.P
M. V. BROK W
3
Secretariat
ut

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.88)
CONFIDENTIAL
OCT 7 1948
MHORANDUH FOR THE UNITED STATES HEMBER
FAR EASTEN CORISSION.
Subjeot: Non-Japanese Civil Aviation in Japan.
There is enclosed a United States position paper with
respect to Non-Japanese Civil Aviation in Japan.
894
The United States amber is authorized to submit the
United States position to the Far Eastern Cammission with a
view to obtaining approval of a policy decision which 1s sub-
796
stantially the equivalent of the United States paper.
For your convenience the enclosed United States pesition
paper has been so reproduced as to point out how the present
United States policy on this subject differs fram the paper,
FBC-245/18, which is now before the Commission.
sisod prig-
of
204
(0)
Charlesi. Salteman
Assistant Secretary
I4
Enclosure
Position Taper on
69
above subject.
Submimn at thi tine cleael
AtmmDunningebr
vetoher 6, 1940
NA-Allin orD-Branett
Av-Thayer
Any-de ilne
An Cl. goner
Port.
CONCIDENTIAL
S
203D

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
MON-JAPANESE CIVIL AVIATION IN JAPAN
1. Participation by Japanese Nationals in Aviation Astivities.
During the period of occupation, Japanese natienals sheuld net
be permitted to engage in flight operations, unless it shall 
determined by sCAp that such fliaht operstiene should be perlited
in the interests of furthering the objeotives of the eesupatlon and
that such flight operations will pot constitute a threst to the
security of any member of the United Nations. However, SCap mmy
authorise civil air carriers to utilise Japanese nationals in een-
neotion with the maintenance and operation of aviation ground
facilities and services, provided, that no Japanese national may be
employed in any aviation ralated activity which will develep skills
or experience dangerous from the security point of view. Beth the
job and the person to be used therein must be spesifieally appreved
by SCAP. Ali Japanese so employed should be engaged under employment
practices which will minimize the labor turnover and the consequent
spread of skills and axperience in aviation related activities.
2. Internal Air Transport Service.
If at any time it seems desirable to the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers to establish an @ givil air transport service between
points in Ja an he should vefer the questiem to so natify the Far Eastarn
Commission for requesting & policy decision. If efter the andratien of
60 daye from the date of roceipt by the Fc of eald petificstlen me
policy has been approved by the Fac which would prohibit the establisbeent
of a civil air trangport service between points in Jepan. Scar my ast te
establish said service as required to meet the need as commupleated to
the FC. In the meantime no internal civil air service should be operated
in Japan.
3. International Service to and through Japan.
Upon a finding by SCAp that exvansion of treds or sconomie or oulturel
benefits of mutual advantage to Japan and United Nations Countries would
be thereby achieved in each cage, civil air carriers of United Nations
Member States duly authorized by their governments to operate to Japan
should be permitted by SCAF, on a non-discriminatory basis and consistent
with security under standards of operation set by SCAf, and within the
limits of the availability of facilities to:
(a) Transit Japan
(b) Make technical stops there en route to other countries when
such transit and stops are necessary for efficient and direct route
operation.
(c) Carry
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
2
(o) Carry passengers, cargo, and mail into, through and y
Irom Japan, but not Srom one phase to amether d dapan, ever rostes
whioh they have been spesifically authorised to fly by thelr respee-
tive governments.
(d) The Grant of cabotage righte ghall be governed by the
progedures set forth in paragraph 2 of this paper.
4. Aviation Facilities.
SCAF should control and supervise the installation, maintenanse
and operation of all aviation ground facilities, utilised in Japan y
civil air carriers. Any use by civil air carriers of Japanese goods,
services or facilities should be subject to appropriate and non-
discriminatory payment in bessl eurreney ssquéred n esserdesse mé
the lane and regulatone in foree in dapam or de any Sovelgn mabange
wseful for the purehwen of imperte for Japan any foreim axahance usstel
for the purchase of iuports for Jepan or in local curreney, in sceprdants
with the laws and regulations in force in Japan. The number and sise ef
aoro-dromes and the aviation facilities available in Japan should be
strictly limited to those required for the purposes of the ocoupation
I ncluding the needs of civil aviation determined in accordanee idth the
provisions of this paper.
5. Technical egulations.
Civil oparations to and through Japan should be conducted within
reguletions established, administered, and enforced by SCAP Sellewdas
conoultation with the countries coneorned.
6. The provisions of this paper should not apply to the means of air
transportation serving the needs of the Allied Council for Japan and
its personnel or to other official government flights which are non-
commercial in character.
FE:hA:ALDunning: jh:br 9/9/48
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Classification
approved by
Y
Executive Orricer
FE
10-7-48
OCT 11:948
SECRET
203
No.
894.796/10-1148
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Nanking.
The Acting Secretary of State refers to SWNCC 379
"CIVIL AVIATION IN JAPAN", enclosed with the Department's
instruction no. 405 of August 8, 1947, and transm1ts
herewith for the Embassy's information a further paper
on the subject.
Enclosure:
1. SANACC 379/2, copy no. 86.
894.796
SECRET
OCT 8 .1948 P.M.
110-1148
HSt
CSA
FE:HSTumas
10-7-48

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.91)
HA
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
MING TELEGRAM
20
A
PLAIN
Aotion:
TRC
Info:
NEA
Control 245
FE
AR
OLI
Rec'd March I, 1949
CIA
1:26 a.m.
AAN
DCL
MD
DCR
FROM:
Tolyo
PC
Secretary of State
NC
c-68180, 1
PO STATE LEPT, HO AF VASHINGTON DC AND FEAF TOKYO
RE0RAD 27C332.
Indjan  laison mission in Japan advised
894.796/3-
x1
 March survey flight 3 March 1949 by Bharat Airways i8
appreved.
45.796 94
80-RA
149
Wne
dist
MAR
FLAIN
<2
H
H
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.97)
FORN DS-822
7-18-46
CLASSIFICATION
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
4 P.M.
SECRET
Department of State
CONTROL
Charge Department X
5094
Charge to
APR 21 194
894.796/4-2149
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
2
INFO ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER
Amendments to US proposal for Civil Aviation Policy
in Japan, (War radio 84724, 25 June 1948) resubmitted
to FEC in Oct1948 as FEC 245/20, have encountered
consistent opposition by majority FEC members. Appar
s in FEC futile until US
in position offer more convincing case in support
present policy or to suggest amendments which will
obtain FEC agreement and at same time adequately serve
CS/A
US objectives. In either case resolution of contro-
versial points (particularly pghs 1 and 2) will require
reconsideration US position on  basis  certain
material which DEPT believes SCAP in best position 
DISTRIBUTION
compile.
894.796
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
study and report
Request SCAP undertake immed
on civil aviation needs for Jap. (Present civil needs
SHLD
now met by mil aviation should be included in
SHLD
Jap's civil air needs). Fol aspe cts should
FE
-229
be particularly
CR CLEARANCE
An
SECRET

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.96)
FORM'DS-322
7-18-46
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
INDICATE
A
Collect
SECRET
Department of State
Charge Department X
SECRET
Charge to
PAGE 2 tO SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
be particularly stressed:
(1) Economic justification for internal services
within Jap, including such data as available re
potential traffic between points in question.
(2) Route pattern believed desirable.
(3) Connections between proposed internal service
and present and contemplated internatl services to,
through and from Jap.
In line with pgh 1 of FEC 245/20 US wld 1ike 
have FEC decide as matter of policy
nat s can participate in civil aviation under SCAP
control and at his discretion,leaving nature, degree
and time of participation to SCAP. Facts and arguments
supporting such policy will be most helpful and are
earnestly solicited.in order  determine US course
DISTRIBUTION
of actionconnection present policy
DEBIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
AFOPY-CAB
ACHESON
ta
USA
FE: HFAmrine: smj
4/19/49
/NA
FE
TRC/AV
USAF
Mr. Bishop
Clearid
SECRET
with t.ld.
milner
APR 1 1949RM
734385

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.94)
RM DS-922
7-18-46
CLASSIFICATION
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
ATE
Collect
3SECAET
DepartmEktTof State
Charge Department X
Washington
Charge to
5090
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
VAY 19 1949
TOKYO
217
INFO ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER.
View Dept's desire resume discussions in
894.796/4-2149
wIl
FEC civil aviation policy would appreciate
ne
advice ao approximate date completion
study requested Deptel 156, Apr 21.
49
(murs)
ACHESON
CS/JEC
NAB
FE
DISTRIBUTION
FE:HFAmrine:clh
82
DESIRED
5/19/49
(OFFICES ONLY)
DOT
SECRET FILE
894.796
SECRET
21
CR CLEARANCE
CR
MAY 19 1949P.M.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.93)
PleScR
MB
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
Office of
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAL
RAF
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
YBL 1949
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DIRFCTL
HAT
15
SECRET
Action:
FE
Info:
FE-amrine
OVISI FContro1 12414
T
TORTHEAST ASIAN
OLI
Heha May 31, 1949
CIA
MAY1949
7:54 a.m.
TRC
MD
DCR
FROM:
Tckyo
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
C-50323, May 26 (Army Message)
REURADS dased 2121132 Apr11 1949, State ser1al 156
and 1919472 May 1949 State ser1a1 217.
894.796/5-2649
Reply may be expected on or abcut 10 June 19+9.
LMS :ECK
Notis
Action Ta
Parte NA
4/2/49
Date of
O1FE
Armine
Action 
Zil
Name of or
Direction to DC/R
SECRET FILH
SECREP
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURHED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
RESTRICTED
DATE: 6/17/49
TO
: AV - Mr. Wolf
Janan Jile
suBjECT: Civil Aviation in Japan.
There 1s attached for your perusal a report which D
developed on my request of some weeks ago. In addition
the request made to SCAP on April 21 for a report on the
present civil aviation requirements of Japan it was thought
that a second report covering the progress and extent of
Japan civil aviation over the decade prior to World War II
might be useful in the presentation of certain aspects of
Japan civil aviation policy.
It 1s suggested that if Av has no objections the at-
tached report be mimeographed and submitted at an early
date to FEC Committee No. 2 for the perusal and general
information of its members pending further consideration
of our policy. In submitting this material to FEC it is
not the intention that it would be used at this time in
furtherance of our negotiations. Please advise Mr. Mosel
in NA of your reactions to the above suggestion as well a
indicating to him any deletions which you consider appro-
priate before submitting the report to FEC.
JUN 20 1949
Attachment
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CC: Mr. Moseley
(with copy of report)
FE: HFAmrine: smJ: jh
RESTRICTED
Cat

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.95)
cop .2
RESTRICTED
CIVIL AVIATION IN THE JAPANESE ECONOMY
PRELIMINARY VERSION
OIR REPORT NO. 4982 (PV)
Jume 13, 1949
Fw
THIS IS AN INTELLIGENCE REPORT1 MOTHING
IN IT IS TO BE CONSTRUED AS A STATEMENT
OF U.S. OR DEPARTMENTAL POLICY OR AS A
894.99
RECOMMENDATION OF ANY GIVEN POLICY.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of Researoh for Far Bast
Distributed By
OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH
COEPLDENSLAL
RESTRICTED

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
TABLE OF COMTENTS
A. Develepment of Civil Air Service in the Japmese Empire .. 1
B. Civil Aviation in Japan Proper in the Prowar Peried ...... 2
1. Length of Air-Lino Routes
2. Passengers and Freight Carried
s. Mail carried .....
4. Number of civil Airoraft
5. subsidies
C. Centribution of Civil Aviation to the Japanese Beomemy ...
D. Future Requiremonts for Civil Aviation in Japan Preper ... 7
LIST OF TABLES
1. Air Transport in the Japanese Empire, 1929-39
2. Air Transport within Japan Proper, 1938
3. Comparison of Domestio Air-Line Operations with Operations
or State and Private Railroads in Japan, 1958-39
4. panece Ais raft Produetion, 1930-45
RESTRICTED

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
ESTRICTD
CIVIL AVIATION IN TRE JAPANESE ECONONY
A. Development of Civil Air Service in the Japemese Eapire
Interest in civil aviation in Japan began in the period before
World War I, but regular air service was not established until 1922. In
1922 the first regular zir service was inaugurated by the Japan Merial
Transport Institute between the city of Sakai, near saka, and the Islmd
of Shikoku, in the Inland Sea. Hydroplanes were used. In the following
year, the Osaka Asahi Shimbun (a newspaper company) started ragular air
service between Tokyo and Osaka and the Japan Aerial Navigation Company,
Ltd., initiated service between Osaka and Beppu. Commercial transport
service worthy of the name, however, was not established in Japan until
about 1929, when the Japan Air Transport Company, Ltd., was established.
This company inaugurated regular service connecting Tokyo, Osaka, and
Fukuoka and later extended its line overseas to Deiren via Seoul. The
company expanded rapidly, especially after the mid-1930's ad by 1938
its Lines, covering Japan proper, Korea, Formosa, Manchuria, md the
Mandated Islands, extended a total route distance of 15,335 kilometers,
as against 2,575 kilometers in 1929-34. In 1938 this company controlled
all of the commercial air lines in Japan except for domestic routes of
about 900 kilometers operated by three small independent companies.
The Japm Air Tramsport Company was merged with the International
Air Tramsportation Company in December of 1938 and became known as the
Japan Airways Company (Dai Nippon Koku Kabushiki Kaisha), a company under
the auspices of the Japamese Ministry of Communications. The new compmy,
formed as the first step toward bringing all civil aviation in Japam under
government cantrol, was capitalised at 25.5 million yen. In the following
spring, the Japan Airways Company was taken over by a monopolistic, semi-
governmental company of the same name. The new company had capitalisation
of l00 million yen, with the Japanese Government participating in the
raising of new capital to the extent of one-half. The company itself,
RESTRICTED

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
RERICTED
furthermere, was authorised to issme debentures met exseeding tmiee the
smount of peid-up eapital, The eompaay was alse givem memepeljy rights
over both national and international eivil air tramspertatiem. Permmlly
appreved by the 74th Session of the Diet in the spring of 19ss, the
company began operating as a Government instrument in August of the sme
yoar.
It is reported that the new Japan Airmays Company eperated
a total of over 19,000 kilemeters of air routes at the end of 19s9. It
may be assumed that sonsiderable expansion in the air line reutes eseurred
after 1939, but such increases were probably made primarily to support
military operations in China and Manchuria rather than to meet emmereial 
requiremonts.
B. Civil Aviation in Japan Proper in the Prewar Period
Statistieal data m prewar civil aviation in Japan proper
(exeluding air serviee to Japam's former colonies) are available in
fairly complete form for the year l9s8 only. Some indieation of air
serviee within Japan in the earlier period may be obtained, however, from
an examination of civil aviation data for the Japenese mmpire. Data
shown in Table 1, covering air service rendered by the Japan Air Tremspert
Cumpany (whieh in December 1938 became known as the Japan Airmays Cempany),
indieates that the length of routes existing in 1938 in the Japamese
Empire was six times the length of routes existing in 1929; the number
of pessengers earried increased by 25 times during the same period; the
volume of goods hauled increased over l20 times; and mail carried in-
areased 95 times.
1. Length of Air Line Routes. In 1938, as shown in Table 2, the
length of routes within Japan proper - including, in addition to those
of the Japan Airways Company, those of three independent companies -
totaled about 7,260 kilometers, or about 45 peroont of the total for all
limes within the Japanese Empire. In 1939, two more lines (0saka-Magane,
via Kamasawa and Toyama; and Osaka-Yomgge) with a total flight distanee
of 820 kilometers were opened, bringing the total air lime routes witkin
CRESTRICTED

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
8
Japan proper to over 8,000 kilemeters. As of Ostober 19s9 these limes
eevered Japan proper quite adequately connesting the impertams sities
of each of the four main islands. In the ease of the prineipal indus-
trial senters in Honshu and Kyushu, there were at least twe reund trips
per day: at least three round trips daily conneeted Tekye, Mageye,
and Osaka, all within the island of Honshu.
Flight kilometers for 1938 totaled about 2,660,000, of which
the flights connecting Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, and Fukuoka, the majer
industrial and commercial centers of Japan, accounted for about tme-
thirds. Some inorease in flight kilometers undoubtedly oceurred in
19s9 through add tions in lines as well as through an inarease in
servioes between various cities, but no data are available.
2. Passengers and Freight Carried. Air lines operating withim Japan
proper earried 26,000 passengers in 1938, two-thirds of whioh were on
flights connecting Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, and Fukuoka. This total of
26,000 represented about 38 peroent of the total number of passengers
V
carried in the Japanese Empire. On a basis of 365 days, the mumber
carried each day amounted to only about 71 passengers. plight kilemeters
flowm by these passongers amounted to about 10,l8l,000 ilometers, or am
average distance per passenger of about 381 kilomaters. Although the
number of passengers carried and the flight kilometers undoubtedly inereased
greatly in the years following because of the expanding military astivities
on the mainland and the improvement in the technieal sfficieney of air-
crafts, figures on the number of passengers carried in the years after
1938 are not available.
Freight carried by the Japanese eivil aviation mithin Japan
proper totaled in 1938 only about 11s metrio tons, whioh was equal te
about 67,500 ton-kilometers. As the data readily indieate, the ameunt of
freight carried on Japamse air lines was insignificant in l9ss and
AL
RESTRICTED

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
prebably continwed to be insigaifieant even in the years fellewing.
For a comparison of passengers and freight earried em rail-
reads with that earried on air lines, see Table 3.
3. Mmil Carried. The total amount of mmil carried by air limes in
Japan proper in 1938 amounted to about 293 metrie tons, or about 85 per-
cent of the total for the whole of the Japmese Empire. As in mest of
the countries of the world, civil airoraft carried more mail than feight
in each of the years. Ton-kilometers of mail carried in l9ss tetaled
about 419,000, or about 2.35 times the freight carried in the same year.
4. Humber of Civil Airesaft. The number of civil aireraft eperating
in Japan in 1938 has been estimated1 to be about 119 plames, 565 of which
were soheduled earriers. There are no official date for this year that
would indicate the exact number of aireraft in civil aviatien. Data fer
the period 1930-34, however, are as follows:
1930
122
1931
154
1952
161
1933
169
1934
176
The coverage of the 1930-34 date may not be the same as that
of the estimate for 1938s the 1930-34 data probably inolude some plames
that, although not of a combat or military type, were nevertheless used
by the military. The indicated deorease in number of planes betweem
1930-34 and 1938 may well have taken plaoe, however, because of the
improvement in effieieney and size of airplanes. In the United States,
there was a decline in the number of air carriers between the early and
3
1. Van Zandt, J. Parkor, Civil Aviation and Peace, The Breokings
Institute, 1944, p. 121.
OOMPEDBUPPAL
RESTRICTED

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
late 19s0's -- from about c00 planes in 18s0 te abeout s46 plemes in
1958.
5. subsidies. The develepment of civil aviatiem in Japem ms
to a large extent dependent upen govermment assistanee. The amsmt ef
funds made available to subsidise air lines is shomm in the fellewing
tabulation:
Fiseal Year
Aviation Budget
subsidies
(In yem)
(Im yem)
1929
4,268,128
3,042,385
1930
3,737,836
3,399,486
1981
4,131,800
3,087,826
1932
4,323,548
2,544,787
1983
1,856,789
1,688,724
1934
1,832,089
1,123,879
1935
1,707,803
1,080,120
1930
3,108,082
1,80,796
1957
8,269,956
4,058,892
1938
14,502,037
5,919,837
1939
45,500,803
10,628,837
The inerease in budget as well as in subsidies in these years refleets
(1) the inereasing tempo of Japanese military activities in Mamehurie
and (2) beginning with 1938, the fast that the govermment played a
direct role in the expansion of Japanese aviation.
SoUrcE: Based en Japanese Ministry of Communioations, Koke Yeran
(survey of Aviation), 1939, Table 22.
In addition to subsidies, the Japanese Government gave the air lines
indireet aid through the mmintenance of airfields. In Ostoher 19s9 the
government operated 10 of the 17 publio airfields located within Japan
proper.2
In the years following, the government undertook to guarantee
1. US Department of Commerce, Civil Aeronautios Administration, Civil
Aviation and the National Economy, September 1945. Table C-15.
2.
Japamese Ministry of Communications, Koku Yoran (Survey of Aviation).
1939, Tab1e 3.
L
RESTRICTED

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
the Japan Airmays Company against less, and, although it is net kmomm
whether any funds were expended by the goverament te indemmify lesses
from eperations, the impetus given to the cempeny temard expanding its
astivities must have been considerable. The extent ef expansiem ef
loeal air service is not known, but, immediately fellowing fermal Diet
approval of its formation, the company extended its international
aviation service to include a route from Tokyo to Bangkok (siam), a
distance of 6,450 kilometers.
to
C. Contribution of Civil Aviation/the Japanese Eoonemy
In order to evaluate properly the contribution that sivil
aviation made to the Japanese economy in the prewar peried, it would be
neeessary to obtain data coneerning industrial produotion in the civil
aireraft manufacturing industry, employment in both the mmmufaeturing
and transportation industries, the wages paid, the contribution of air
service to the comunication and transportation field in genoral, the
funotions that civil aviation was able to carry out that only aviation
is eapable of doing (such as forest fire air patrol), md the part that
research in this field may have played in the development of other
J
branahes of the eoonomy. Data available are not sufficient to permit
as detailed an evaluatior es might be desirable; however, such inferm-
tion as is available is summarised in the following paragraphs.
Statistioal data available indicate that Japan produoed about
445 wiroraft in 19s0 and thet, in general, produotion inereased each
year thereafter; in 1937 Japan was producing about 1,000 adreraft
annually. (See Table 4.) The manufacture of siroraft increased by
leaps and bounds after l9s7 because of the large orders that came to
the maaufacturing firms from the military. In l944 the industry produeed
over 28,000 units, of whioh non-cgmbet planes numbered over 7,000 unita1
It would probably be reasonable to say, however, that planes for civil
1. USSBS, The Japanese Airoraft Industry, May 1947 Appendix I, UNCLAsSIFIED.
AL
RESTRIC

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTBICTED
aviatiom represented only a mall portion of the total sivil aireraft
manufactured in Japan from 1930 through 1959, most of sush preduetiem
having been diverted to the military.
Data on the number of workers employed in the aviatiem
industry are available, but they are diffioult to interpret beeause of
the part played by the military: it would be diffioult to extreet frem
the total employment in the airoraft manufacturing industry in 194l of
about 220,000 monthly the number that might be allocated to that portiem
of the industry engaged primarily in the manufacture of civil aireraft.
The number probably would be less than 5 peroent, an estimate based on
the assumption that production would have been geared to the maimtenanee
of about 150 operable civil airaraft.
The part that civil aviation has played in the development
of the Japanese economy cannot be measured solely by the mumber of
passengers carried or freight and mail transported besause of the in-
tangible factor of speed, whieh facilitates the kmitting together of an
economy by making places that would be days away by rail or any other mede
of transportation relatively nearby.
There is no evidence that the Japmese utilised sivil aviatie
to any degree if at all for forest fire patrol, orop dusting. ete., mees
that are now common in the United States. The use of civil aireraft in
Japan for such punposes was probably too uneconomic in many ways because
1
the total land area is small and most of the forested areas are aseessible.
D. Future Roquirements for Civil Aviation in Japan Proper
Estimates of requirements for domestic civil aviation are
diffioult to make because of the intangible factor of speed; and the
problem is further complieated by (1) the considerable technical advanee
in aviation equipment and in transportation mothods and (2) in the ease of
RESTRICTED

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
Japas, the pestmar distertion of transportatien in gemeral. Amy relief
from the tremendous pressure on the railreads and ceastal shipping would
be of considerable value to the Japanese. That the freight asi pessemgers
carried by civil airoraft in l9ss was insignifieant, hewever, is emply
brought out by data shown in Table 3. In goneral, the impertamee of air
transport to any economy bears a relationship to the distanees invelved.
In this connection, it should be noted that distanees separating the areas
in Japan proper between which quick communication is most impertamt fer
the most part are no more than an eight-hour trip by train - very rarely
four
in excess of twentyfhours. The estimates of requirements for Japam that
follow are based on Japan's prewar civil aviation serviee.
Air-line routes in Japan proper in 1988 extended ever a distance
of about 6,000 Elemeters (3,726 miles). Some expansiom is route eeverage
1
and an inerease in utilisatiom of each lime might be useful in the futures
however, the lines existing in l9ss probably would meet the most urgent
needs.
With the larger and more efficient planes that are now being
flowm, Japan probably would require very few planes to operate these
routes. It is estimated1that tn 1936, when there were about 17,000
kilometers of air lines in the Japanese Empire, Japan had about 119
planes, of which about 55 were scheduled air carriers. Japan could
probably operate the lines that it had within Japan proper in 19s8 with
roughly one-half or less of the total number of planes used by Japan
civil aviation in that year. Even with greater utilisation of planes in
the future, the inorease in the sise and speed of the planes over that in
1938 would probably make it possi ble to mest Japanese requiremonts with
about 50 planes, if there were no great increase in route kilometers.
1. van zaudt, op. oit.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
Tab1O 1. AIR TRANSPORT IN THR JAPANESE EMPIRE, 1929-39
Passengers
Freight
Ma1l
Yearb
Longth of
Number
Distance
Route
of
of Flights
Passenger
Volume
Ton-
Volume
(in km.)
Flights
(in km.)
Number
Kilomaters
(in kg.)
Kilometers
(in kg) Kilemoters
1929-30
2,575
2,558
1,020,300
2.755
1,014,610
2,4山山
1,029
8,594
353
1930-31
2.575
4.454
1,670,900
7.642
2,864,260
8,966
3.614
25.063
9.063
1931-32
2,575
4,867
1,753,230
6,766
2,317,615
32.44
11,616
40.871
山.23
1932-33
2,575
5,301
1,744,105
10,716
3,178,395
28,510
9.539
93,950
29.5%4
1933-34
2,575
5,224
1,715.400
10,992
3,180,495
28.049
9.541
219,560
66,120
1934-35
2,618
5,648
1,683,652
12,187
3,252,248
57.083
17.026
197.199
55.657
1935-36
4,223
5,846
1,833,056
10,822
2.87652
67.497
19,567
263,960
1936-37
6,985
9.205
2,856,262
18,955
6,203.937
80.116
26,845
354.641
120.349
1937-38
10,306
16,270
5.126,385
47.342
17,012,760
248,607
122,059
591,158
22
1938-39
15.335
17,山山
6,209,873
69.268
32.496,937
297,807
178,41
819.261
429.163
Ineludes Japanese civil aviation within Japan proper and routes connecting Japan proper with Korea, Pormosa, Manehuria,
and the Mandated Islands, as reported hy the Japanese Communications Ministry. The figure include only routes controlled by
the Japan Air Trananort Caspany and, for 1938-39, ite successor, the Japan Airway Company (Dai Nippon Koku Kabushiki Maigha).
There were several other companies operating within Japan during this period, but they were of minor importance.
b.
The date shown are for the Japanese fiscal year (April 1 to March 31) according to the source; however, in the Keku Yeres
(Survey of Aviation) 1939. published y the Japanese Ministry of Communications, over-all statistics for calendar 19ys jabe
with the figures given in this tahle for 1938-39. Reconciliation of the two sources as to the period that the data cover is
not possible in Washington at this time.
Souroe: Maval Report, Civil Aviation Progress, 1929-39 (for Japan), October 9, 1939. UNCLAssIFIED
RESTRICTED

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
Table 2. AIR TRANSPORT WITHIN JAPAN PROPER, 1938
Passengers
Freight
Ma11
Operating
Date of Longth of
Frequency
Flight
Bassohger
Volume
Ton-
Tol
To
Gempany and
Establish-
Route
of
Kilometers
Number
Kilameters (in kg.) Kilometers (in kg.) Kilemstere
Route
ment
(in km.)
Operation
Japan Airways Co.
1. Tokyo-Dairen
April 1929
Tokyo-Nagoya
296
3 round trips daily
293,040
4.225
1,250,600 10.439
3,090
39.707
11.7.
Nagoya-Osaka
139
1143,031
4.322
600,758 15,229
2,117
43.207
6.006
Osaka-Pukuoka
500
2
n
628.500
3,809
1,904,500
27.465
13.733
91.438
43.729
Subtotal
935
1,064,571
12,356
3.755.858 53.133
18.940
174.352
61178
2. Tokyo-Sapporo
April 1937
Tekye-Sendai
330
1 round trip daily
185,460
134
473,220
1.390
459
9,063
Sendai-Acmeri
330
119,130
935
308,550
975
322
7.975
Aomori-Sappore
280
100,670
1,073
30040
853
239
7.335
Subtotal
940
407.260
3.2
1,082,210
3,218
1,020
.373
7.677
3. Tokyo-Shan-Chum
June 1937
Tokye-Fukueka
925
1 round trip daily
567.931
4276
4.44.716 46.391
42,988
73,088
67.696
Takyo-Poi-p'ing
0ot 1938
Takyo-Tuhuaba
925
1 round trip every
70,300
390
360,750
3,659
3.385
1416
1.310
other day
Tekye-Niigata
Oot 1936
380
1 round trip monthly
17,100
83
31.540
12
5
55
21
Lakye-Tovama-Oeaka
1937
Tekye-Toyama
413
b
23.954
山0
57.820
103
43
60
Toyama-Oeaka
310
b
21,080
109
33,790
231
72
71
Subtotal
723
45.034
249
91,610
334
115
131
RESTRICTED

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.94)
Table 2. Continued.
RESTRICTED
Operating
Date of
Longth of
Frequeney
Passengere
Preight
Cempany and
Bstablish- Route
of
Flight
Passenger
Volu
Ton
Toh
Route
ment
(in km.)
Operation
Kilometers
Number
Kilometers (in kg.) xilemeters (m kg.) Kilemsters
7.
Osaka-Matsue
7.
 QbakaeTobbori
1937
280
b
20,160
58
16,240
226
63
山3
40
Tetteri-mtrue
110
b
7.370
6
7.040
130
山
81
9
Subtetal
390
27,530
122
23,280
356
77
204
49
8.
Osaka-Keehi
Oatober 1936
Osaka-Tékushima
123
1 round trip daily
42.312
425
52.275
401
49
1,119
山7
Tokushima-Koshi
182
1 round trip daily
61,152
348
63.386
220
40
809
山7
Subtotal
305
103464
773
115,601
621
89
1,928
294
9. Tekye-Osaka-Nagoya
1937
Tokyo-doaka
425
b
63,325
638
271
5.085
2,136
Osaka-Nagoya
139
b
6,855
67
9
1,706
7
Nagoya-Takyo
296
b
11,840
山
4
1,132
335
Subtotal
860
81,420
719
284
7.863
2,708
n Aviatien Researeh Institute
10.
Coaka-hoppu
July 1923
Conkao Fahamatou
140
1 round trip daily
90,860
1,813
253,820
2,365
331
4.941
Takamatsu-liatsuyam
150
1 round trip daily
93450
1,236
185,400
1,743
261
2,841
Matsuyama-Beppu
130
1 round trip daily
59,670
839
109.070
235
31
1.305
170
subtotal
420
13,980
3.888
548,290
4.343
683
9,007
1,008
Ande Aersmautical Institute
11. Bagoya-Putand
67
b
8,308
120
8.174
5
 AiGe Tranprt C0.
15.
d
150
b.
9.600
55
8,250
262
42
15.
d
240
b
山400
山
10,560
7
GRAND TOTAL
7,860
2,660,898 26,000
10,180.869 113,068 67.568
292.607

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRICTED
a. During the manths of January through March 1938, planes flew via Yokkaichi for fuel, inoreasing the regular route to
931 kilometers.
b. Information not available.
. Ando Aeronautical Institute was established in January 1920, but no date are available as to the year in whieh reguler
flights were inaugurated.
d. The Japan Air-Sea Transport Company was established in July 1931, but no data are available as to the year in which
regular flights were inaugurated.
Rolou Hoaku
somc: Japanese Ministry of Commaicatien, Koku Yoran (Survey of Aviation), 1939: Japanese Aviation Sosiety Aviad
Yearbookl,1940.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
TAbLO 3. COMPARISON OF DOMBSTIC AIR LINE OPERATIONS WITH
OPERATIONS OF STATE AND PRIVATE RAILROADS
IN JAPAN, 1988-89
Air Limes
as Pereomtage
Railreads
Air Limes
of mailreads
Length of Limes (in 1,000 km.)
27.3
7.8
26.7
Passengers earried (in 1,000's)
1,789,000
26
0.001
33,358,000
10,181
0.05
0.406
Freight carried (in 1,000 m.t.)
181,000
0.0003
Froight ton-kilemeters (in 1,000's)
b
18,808,000
210
0.001.
Soures: Japmese Ministry of Railways statistios, given in Wihon Kekusei
Zukai (survey of Japan) by S. Yane and T. Shirasaki, T9l, p. W6.
b. Inol udes ostimates for privato lines.
o. Souroe: Based on Table 2.
d. Includes mail.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
TabIO 4. JAPANESE AIRCRAPT PRODUCTION, 19SO-45
Year
Total Number
civil Airoraft
Combat Airerart
1980
445
b
b
1931
368
b
b
1932
691
b
1933
766
b
1984
688
b
b
1935
952
b
b
1936
1.181
b
b
1937
1,151
b
b
1938
3,201
6
6
1939
4,467
o
1940
4,768
1941
5,088
1,908
3,180
1942
8,861
2,526
6,885
1943
16,693
8,287
13,406
1944
28,180
7,122
21,058
1945
11,066
2,808
8,268
a. Non-combat types.
b. Aireraft produeed were probably largely of civilian types.
but no breakdom is available.
e. Data mot available
SOURCE:
US888, The Japanese Airoraft Industry, May 1947, p. 155,
UNCLASSIFIED.
RESTRICTED
