894.628 Animal Husbandry., Japan, Fisheries. Sponges. Sponge Fisheries., February 3, 1947 - June 20, 1949 (File 1732)
ID: 894.628-1732   Pages: 188   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.628-animal-husbandry-japan-12
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
JNCOMING AIRGRAM
. MB
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS  TELÉGRAPA BRAN
Action Taken
Dinspanta 7obye
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ABIAN AFFAIRS
Orfice of
FAH EASTERN AFFAINS
JUN 28 1910
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Direot 100b300/R--El
CONFEAUAL
FIOM: USPOLAD, Tokyo
Dave of
mailing: June 22, 1949
rec'd:
June 27, 1949 4:08p.m
se of state
894.628/6-2049
ACPTOn
FE
IP
DC/:
1, Jure 20, 1949.
PC/D
Ref cence is made to Fre documant 3C-271/14 of May 4, 1949.
IT?
T
This Mi ision notes that the boundary of the Japanese fishing
TR
ar ea desecibe in paragraph 2a of the document under ref erence
01.1
does not coinside itn the limits described in sCAPIN 1033/1. of
CIA
fegember 23, 948. In particular, it is noted that a smal1 but
highly procuecive fi shing area in the western extremity of the
Sphorized area is omitted. This discrepaney has been brought to
 attention of Natural esources ection, General Headquarters,
6-2849
this small area.
The good offices of the Department in pointing out this dis-
no diat
crepancy to the FEC Secretarist and in informing this Mission in
the premises would be appreciated.
HUSTON
JUL 15 1949
FILED
8 310/322.2
RBFinn: gmd: cgf
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
CONFIDENTTAL

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
FORM DS-323
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
7-18-46
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
Washington,
NO.
1347
347
USPOLAD,
TOKYO.
A-114, July 14, 1949
REUR A-155, June 20
Amendment has been introduced in the Steering Committee of FEC
to adjust fishing area set forth in paragraph 2 of SC-271/14 to
coincide with limits described in SCAPIN 1033/1. See WAR 91108 of
July 6 for summary of action taken.
ACHESON
894.628/6-2049
CS/CC
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
894.62
FE:NA:HMoseley:db
7/13/49
CONFIDENTIAL
CR CLEARANCE
JUL 14 1949P V.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
l'l
is assigned to
THE
OREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Despatch No. 366
= FISMERIES
American Embassy
U/FW
ielow
RESTRICTED
Sequl, Korea, June 20, 1949
2170
Subject:
Korean Reaction to Rumored Extension of Japanese
Fishing Limits.
FR
DYR
The Honorable
FE
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
OLI
4/100
Sir:
I have the honor to report on Korean official and public
Pos
reaction to rumors of possible extension of the so-called
174
"MacArthur Line" delimiting Japanese fishing.
ECa
Korean Kavy Chief of Staff SON Won Il made the first recent
reference to the "MacArthur Line" in e newspaper statement of
June 2nd: ". . . It occurs to me that the MacArthur Line might,
in fact, be removed in consideration of the recent notification
of GHQ ScaP stating that Korean Navy authorities should not
capture any Japanese ships, but only report the name of them to
GHa, so that GHQ itself may punish them . . ." Admiral Son con-
tinued (referring to Japanese violations of the SCAP fishing limit),
. . . we are pressingly in need of more guard-ships adequate for
tightening the coast-guard against the Japanese violation of our
coastline."
On June Sth, the Chosun Ilbo (politically middle-of-the-road)
commented on "secret illegal fishing" by the Japanese beyond the
"MacArthur Line" along the Korean coast. The newspaper article
continued by reporting the Japanese petition, and a report that the
Philippine Government had protested to SCAP. The article concluded
with a reported statement of Foreign Minister Ben LIMB: " . . . We
cannot tolerate Japan's attempt to extend the /MacArthur line.
Receiving such an outrageous report, the /Foreign Affairs Ministry
is negotiating with SCAP through our mission in Japan in order to
prevent the extension of the line."
The National Independence Federation's propaganda chief was
quoted in the Sisa Sinmoon (a government-supporting paper) of
June 9th to the effect that "such an intrigue as the maneuvering
for an expansion of the MacArthur Line is nothing but a proof that
Japanese imperialistic ambitions are not yet extirpated. . . The
entire population of Korea should unite in order to stop the ful-
fillment of such a plot by the Japanese." (The National Independence
Federation is Dr. KIMM Kiu Sic's middle-of-the-road group.
/Tong-A hbo
JUL 6 1949
FILED
RESTRICTED

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
American Embassy,
June 20, 1949
-2-
Seoul, Despatch No. 366
Tong-A Ilbo (a large, extreme-right paper) of June llth reported
the dispatch of a telegram by Foreign Minister Limb to CHuNG Han Pum,
Chief of the Korean Diplomatic Mission in Japan, directing CHUNG to
consult with SCAF. At a press conference on June 14th, Minister Limb
1
announced the contents of the telegram. Six points were to be stressed
in the consultations: (1) Japanese invasion of the MacArthur Line
threatened the Korean fishing industry; (2) extension of the Line
would "expedite the second rising of Japan"; (3) extension of the Line
would threaten Korean national defense; (4) since Japan "has unlimited
fishing area on her eastern coast," she had an ulterior motive in
seeking extension; (5) revision of the Line without Korean consent
would "weaken the defense of the Far Fest; (6) fishing areas "now
owned by Korea ere an important part of Korean economy."
President Riee, asked at his press conference on June loth for
his thoughts on the Japanese petition, said: "/The Japanese probably
would like to extend themselves even to Seoul. They had a good time
for forty years in Korea. But the Korean people will oppose them."
Editorial comment, as represented by the Kyunghang Sinmoon
23
(extreme-right Catholic paper) of June 9th and the Chosun IIbo (middle-
of-the-road) of June l4th, reflected Korean hypersensitivity to all
developments in Japen and opposition to anything which could con-
ceivably strengthen the Japanese nation. In addition, the editorials
used the "MacArthur Line" to illustrate the thesis that the United
States is being too good to Japan. Kyunghang said, ". . . Japanese
imperialism is now growing under the protection of the United States.
. . . Should the United States approve the petition of the Japanese
overnment, she would lose the confidence of the Asian peoples as a
whole."
Officers of Diplomatic Section, SCAP, in telephone conversation
4
with this Embassy on June 16th stated that SCAP had no intention of
extending the "MacArthur Line" until the Japanese had proved their
ability to obey regulations within present limits. Moreover, even if
the line were to be extended, the Diplomatic Section stated, the ex-
tension would be to the south and east, toward the trusteeship area,
and not toward Korea. They reported further that Chief of Mission
Chung had called upon the Acting Political Advisor on June llth, and
had been informed that there was no truth in the rumor that the "Mac-
Arthur Line" would be extended toward Korea.
On June 16th Mr. HONG Sung Chin, Chief of the Second Section,
5
Policy Bureau, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, called at the Embassy
and asked whether the MacArthur Line would be extended. Although
he was assured repeatedly that it would not, he seemed unconvinced.
6
The following day his subordinate came again with a note requesting
"written information" from the Embassy. The note was answered on
June 20th with the statement that all information on the subject had
been given to the Chief of the Korean diplomatic mission in Japan.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Everett F. Drumright
Enclosures:
Counselor of Embassy
1. Press conference, June 14.
2.3. Editorials
4. Telephone conversation
5. Conversation with Mr. HONG and
Conversation with Mr..Kim
7. Note to Foreign Office
Original and hect to Dept.- copy to PoLaD Tokyo

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIND
malosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 366, dated June 20, 1949, from
American Eabassy, Seoul.
UNITED STATES INFORMATION SERVICE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Seoul, Korea
PRESS INTERVIEW
Mr. Ben Limb, Minister of Forein Affairs, met pressmen at 10s4o
on 14 June 1949 in a twenty-minute interview when the following
questions and answers were given:
. The United States Government showed a favorable attitude
toward the Japanese extension of the MacArthur Line. What is your
comment?
A. This problem brcut ort comments as early as last May.
I learned that Japanese Premier Voshida had conferred with General
HacArthur and requested an extensien of the fishing area. We felt
that this directly concerned Korea so sent instructions to our
Ambassador, r. Chung an u, lat in ay. Contents of the tel
gram are as follows:
Japanese covernmont made several petitions regarding the
extension of acArthur Line. I instruct you to negotiate with
SCAP stressing the following pcints:
1. Japanese fishers' invasion of NacArthur Line means
deprivation oi our rights. There is no reason to fear that
Japanese fichers may threaten the fishing industry of Korea.
2. Extension of acArthur Line will expedite the second
rising of Japan, and threaten the peace of the Far East.
3. Extension of the MacArthur Line threatens the national
defense of Korea.
L. Japan has unlinited fishing area on her eastern coast
and we think Japan's intention to extend the Line has objec-
tives other than greater fishing area.
5. Revision of the MacArthur Line without consent of
Korea will weaken the defense of the Far East.
6. Fishing areas now owned by Korea are an important part
of Korean economy.
Q. Foreign news despatches indicate that U.S. troops will with-
draw from Kcrea soon. Do you know how many members of the military
mission will remain here?
A. Withdrgwal of J.S. troops is in progress and more than one
hundred persons of the military mission will remain here, I guess.
I want to tell you, an independent country does not need foreign
troops, but the United States must fulfill its responsibilities
before the troops leave.
Q. The British
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 6 === (confidence 1.00)
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 366, dated June 20, 1949, from
American Embassy, Seoul.
Q. The British and French Governments revealed that they
intend to recognize the Chinese Communist Government. What is
your policy?
A. The Republic of Korea cannot recognize the Chinese Red
Government.
Q. Recently many Chinese displaced persons arriyed in Korea
due to their Civil War. What is your counter-measure?
A. The Department of Commerce and other departments concerned
are investigating all displaced persons and permit proper persons
entry into Korea. Some Chinese who supported our Provisional
Government in Shanghai during the Japanese domination have arrived
here.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 7 === (confidence 1.00)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 366, dated June 20, 1949, from
American Embassy, Seoul, Korea.
THE WHOLE NATION PROTESTS AGAINST THE EXTENSION OF MACARTHUR LINE.
(EDITORIAL)
(June 9) (KYUNGHYANG) Of late, the Japanese government
formally handed to MacArthur's Headquarters a petition calling
for the enlargement of the MacArthur line so that the Japanese
may enjoy more extensive fishing grounds in the Yellow Sea than
now. Originally, the MacArthur line was devised by the Allied
Powers for the purpose of restricting the activities of the
Japanese fishing ships to the home waters of Japan. We cannot but
see the petition asking for the right of the Japanese fishing ships
to enter Korean waters as a trick of the Japanese Government to re-
invade the continent.
Although a defeated country, Japanese imperialism is now
growing under the protection of the United States. MacArthur's
Headquarters issued an instruction, "Respect the Japanese", and
is endeavouring to raise the standing of the Japanese rapidly.
This is still vivid in our memory. Taking advantage of the change
of the US policy toward Japan from the spirit of the Potsdam
Declaration to a policy of upbringing, the Japanese Government
petitioned the expansion of the MacArthur Line under the cloak
of the alleviation of the food situation.
If such an arrogant demand of the Japanese governnent is
granted, this will implant a seed of calamity in Asia.
Viewed purely from an economic standpoint, we cannot but call
the petition "outrageous". Since Kerea has a predominant right
to fishery in both the Yellow and East Seas, they are indispensable
to our country. Fishery ranks second to agriculture in Korean
economic importance. Therefore, allowing the Japanese fishing
ships to come into the Yellow and East Seas would mean the crippling
of the Korean economy. For this reason, we oppose the expansion of
the MacArthur line.
SCAP may take up the petition from a political standpoint, but
we assert that the anti-Japanese sentiment of the Asian people has
not yet subsided. Should the US approve the petition of the
Japanese government, she would lose the confidence of the Asian
peoples as a whole.
From this broad point of view, we earnestly request of SCAP
to refuse the expansion of the MacArthur line. As the past history
teaches us, it was when Japan gained the command of the sea that
the Japanese imperialism started its invasion activities in earnest.
Now, the whole nation has made full preparations for the protest
against the expansion of the MacArthur line from political and
economical standpoints. What Japan really wants is not marine pro-
ducts, but the expansion of her influence. We cannot acquiesce in
the trick of the Japanese government to encroach on the Yellow and
East Seas from the standpoint of self-defense. Therefore, we hope
that SCAP will take an adequate step against the petition.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCIASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 366, dated June 20, 1949, from
American Embassy, Seoul.
THE CHANGE OF THE US POLICY TOWARD JAPAN
(EDITORIAL)
(CHOSUN) Simultaneously with the end of the last war and
immediately after the occupation by the US forces of Japan, Gen.
MacArthur, as is universally known, was fully authorized to
implement the Allied policy toward Japan as the Commander-in-chief
of the Allied forces. Also, there is no doubt that the MacArthur
policy has been gradually changing.from its original course as
time passes--that is to say that the MacArthur's policy, formerly
based on the joint will of the Allied Powers, appears to be based
on the unilateral will of the United States.
Since the United States apparently played the greatest role
in the fighting against Japan, it must be admitted as a matter
of course that she should take a lead in the Allied policy toward
Japan. But this, I would dare say, does not put anyone under an
obligation to keep mum about the US policy toward Japan. Especial
for Korea, a neighbor of Japan, it is a metter of great concern.
Taking major examples from a series of the latest events that
occurred in relation to Japan, the United States offered the
abandonment of Japanese reparations, while Japan asked for the
expansion of the MacArthur line. Of course, we know well why the
United States intends to lighten her burdens in relation to Japan.
Also, we admit that there are points which the United States should
take into consideration for the benefit of Japan's existence.
However, we cannot agree unconditionally to United States intentions
of making Japan a strategic base. In particular, the expansion of
the MacArthur line is connected with the interests of Korea. We,
therefore, cannot but have a word on the US policy toward Japan,
so long as the United States follows a policy of "Japan first".
Not only the United States but also all Far Eastern countries have
a full understanding as to what kind of role Japanese technique
will play in the Orient. However, Japanese technique must be
restricted to a certain extent; sacrificing the neighboring countries
of Japan for the benefit of Japan's existence would mean endanger-
ing Oriental peace as well as world peace. I, therefore, hope that
the US government and General MacArthur will take into consideration
the above-mentioned points.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
REGTRICTED
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 366, dated June 20, 1949, from
American Embassy, Seoul.
MEMORANDUM OF TELEPHONE CONVERSATION
June 15, 1949
Time: 10:30 a.m., June 15, 1949.
Participants: D. S. Macdonald, Seoul - Mr. Richard B. FINN, Tokyo,
Diplomatic Section, GHQ. SCAP
Subject: Extension of "MacArthur Line"
Mr. Finn made the following statements:
Ambassador CHUNG of Korea called on Mr. Huston Saturday.
June 1lth, and was informed that there was no truth in the rumor
that the fishing line would be extended toward Korea.
Following are facts pertaining to the situation:
SCAP received authority from Washington in January to extend
the fishing line south and east toward the American trustee area;
this would be toward the Philippines. (The Chief of the Philippine
Mission in Japan also called on Mr. Huston, and is most concerned
over the extension of the line toward the Philippines.) They
absolutely do not intend to extend the line toward Korea or China.
The authority for extension hes been kept fairly confidential
because SCAP does not intend to extend the line until the Japanese
have proved that they can comply with present restrictions, which
they are deinitely not complying with at present.
Apparently news of the authority has leaked out, as is indicated
by the sudden flood of petitions and publicity being received now
for extension of the line; evidently the very large and powerful
fishing industry is mainly responsible for the publicity, but is
acting througi both the Diet and the Executive Branch.
SCAP also desires to keep all punitive authority for violation
of fishing restrictions within the jurisdiction of SCAP or the
Japanese in order, partially, to protect the Japanese fishing people
and prevent international complications --- the Russians and Chinese
have already attacked Japanese fishing vessels who had wandered
beyond their legal fishing boundaries, and Koreans are not entirely
innocent of such a charge.
Tokyo will henceforth forward copies of any correspondence on
extension of the MacArthur Line to the Embassy, Seoul.
NOTE: On June 16th, in a second telephone call, Mr. Finn stated to
Mr. Macdonald that the petition which had apparently aroused the
present flood of comment was a Japanese Diet resolution of late May
or early June; but that SCAP had received hundreds of petitions from
various groups, public, commercial, and private, over a period of
several months.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure No. 5 to Despatch No. 366, dated June 20, 1949, from
American Embassy, Seoul.
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
June 17, 1949
Subject: "MacArthur Line" del imiting Japanese fishing
Participants: Mr. HONG Sung Chin, Chief, Second Section,
Policy Bureau, Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Mr. KIM Ch'i Soon, Assistant to Mr. Hong.
D. S. Macdonald, Vice-Consul, Political Section.
Place and Time: Room 505, mbassy Building, 2:30 p.m., June 16, 1949.
Mr. Hong and Mr. Kim called at Mr. Macdonald's office by appoint-
ment made through Mr. HUTCHINSON in regard to the MacArthur Line.
Mr. Hong, after very brief preliminaries, inquired whether the
MacArthur Line would be extended by SCAP, or whether it had been ex-
tended. He referred to recent "foreign news reports" concerning the
extension of the Line, and seemed to labor under the impression that
SCAP planned to extend it.
Mr. Macdonald stated that he had communicated by telephone with
the Diplomatic Section, SCAP, end had received definite assurances
that SCAP did not plan to extend the MacArthur Line at this time.
He added that the news reports were apparently based on a petition
in the fom of a resolution of the Jepenese Diet.This petition, how-
ever, was only one of lundreds of petitions sent to SCAP over a period
of several months. Mr. Macdonald continued that even if, at some
future time, SCAP should reconsider the problem of extending Japanese
fishing limits, the extension would be toward the east and south,
and not toward Korea. He further stated that this information had
been communicated to the Chief of the Korean Diplomatic Mission in
Tokyo, Mr. CHUNG, on the occasion of Mr. Chung's call at the Diplo-
matic Section, SCAF, on June 1l.
Mr. Hong asked several times over whether the MacArthur Line
would be extended, and although he appeared to understand the
negative answer given him, he seemed somewhet unconvinced of the
truth of Mr. Macdonald's statements.
NOTE: On June 17th, Mr. KIM Ch'i Soon came again to Mr. Macdonald's
office, bearing a memorandum from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
requestin written assurances from the Enbassy, which Mr. Kim stated
would be released to the press by the Ministry.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 6 to Despatch No. 366, dated June 20, 1949, from
Ámerican Embassy, Seoul.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
Seoul
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
June 18, 1949
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments
to the American Embassy, and with reference to the alteration
of the MacArthur fishery line, has the honor to request the
written information of the American Embassy.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs avails itself of this
opportunity to renew to the Anerican Embassy the assurance of
its consideration and esteem.
The American Embassy,
Seoul, Korea.
FB-2-00136
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 7 to Despatch No. 366, dated June 20, 1949, from
American Embassy, Seoul.
No. 15
The American Enbassy presents its compliments to the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs, and has the honor to make reference to the
Ministry's note number FB-2-00136, June 18, 1949, concerning
alteration of the "MacArthur Line" delimiting Japanese fishing.
According to telephone conversation with members of the staff
of the Acting Political Advisor to the Supreme Commander, Allied
Powers, in Tokyo, the Acting Political Advisor discussed the prob-
lem of the "Macarthur Line" at some length with the Chief of the
Korean Diplomatic Mission in Japan and communicated to him the
position of the Supreme Commander, Allied Powers, with respect to
the limitation of Japanese fishing.
It is therefore suggested that the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs utilize the report of the Chief of the Korean Diplomatic
Mission in Japan as a basis for further infonmation on this subject.
The American Embassy,
Seoul, June 20, 1949.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.83)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPN BRANON
pc
(1)
U/FW = FISHERIES
CTICN: UF/W
JUL 5 1949
IiFO
01
IC/R
AND WILDLIFE
1E
1/FAA
15/L
DECLASSIFIED
E.0. 11652. Sec. 3(E) and 5(0) g (E)
.10
740120
By CO/& NARS, DatMAR 3.0. 1976
108
(. I
N
894.628/6-2249
0249
DEARIMT
mpleted
y
to 1
oilatle
d ait
y 
JUL 6 1949
tote~mcn
FILED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R contral fles with metatiem of acten taken.
H

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
Americen rmbassy,
Seoul, A-209
2
June 22, 1949
"The proposed extension of the Macarthur Line to give Japanese
fiscery rigts in our waters creates a most serious situation in
Korea, economically, politically ena sentimeutally. Some pro-
Jevenese in Jepen realizing difficulty in carrying out this project
in Japan were General acnrthur would not allow it and noping to
secure support of some pro-Japalese officials in asnington, managed
to turn te matter over to the l's Government to decide.. Ne must
fight to defeet this idea at any cost snd you are authorized to do
your utmost to couvince proper autiorities of the unwisdom of such
a nove on the part of any american official. Japan wes allowed to
exploit korea long enougm ens now we are not ¿oing to tolerate it
aprin If iriends of Japan want to extend fisuery rghts to Japen-
ese we sug est t at there are wlenty of firn in the ltewallan ad
liforale weters le Koreene al so wnt to live end will proteet
or economic resources as Anericans woule : rotect theirs."
V. CC10
Copy: FOLAD. Tokyo
sie cdone1d:wd
COLFIDLTIAL

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
4×R's
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
894.628/6-2749
No。 416
94okyo, June 27, 1949
SECRET
19
(For Department Use Only)
REC 'D
JULY 18
Assigned to
Nit
ACTION
FE
Kuril Islands, the Habomai Islands, and
INFO
Shikotan Island.
DCR
U/FW
:ution
.628/6-2749
L
Syabol_NA
EUR
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
licor
he fean
6034
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruotfon
no. 16 of June 1, 1949, concerning the ultimate
disposition of Formosa and the Kuril Islands and
possible United States support to Japanese claims at
the peace settlement to the Habomai Group, Shikotan,
Kunashiri, and Etorofu islands, I have the honor to
transmit a memorandum, dated June 15, 1949, prepared
by FSO Charles N. SPINKS on the subject of Soviet and
Japanese territorial claims to the Kuril Islands, the
Habomai Islands, and Shikotan Island. It is believed
that this memorandum affords a useful resumé of historioal
claims to these territories end contemporary developments
under the Occupation which may have a close bearing on
their ultimate disposition.
The problem of the future disposition of the Kuril-
Habomai-Shikotan area has been brought to the immediato
attention of this Mission through assertions of terri-
torial sovereignty over these islands and adjacent waters
made by the Soviet Member, Allied Counoil for Japan, in
connection with the seizure and detention of Japanese
fishing vessels allegedly operating outside the authorized
fishing area established by General Headquarters (this
XK
Mission's despatches nos. 706 of November 2, 1948, and
np
34 of January 19, 1949).
The three-power agreement signed at Yalta on
C
FILED
February 11, 1945, 1s the primary basis of the Soviet
91949
Union's present position in southern Sakhalin and the
Kuril Islands. This agreement provided for the entry of
the Soviet Union into war against Japan two or three
months
2
SECRET
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHN 14 DAYS, WITN A MOTATION OF AOTION TAE.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
months after termination of the war in Europe, on several
conditions one of which was that "The Kuril islands shall
be handed over to the Soviet Union." There was, however,
no definition of the term Kuril Islands. Since the
Habomai Islands and Shikotan Island,have been traditionally
regarded as an island group distinct from the Kuril
archipelago, and under Japanese control had a lodal administra-
tion as a political subdivision of Hokkaido separate from
the Kuril island local administration, there appears no
valid basis, either in the Yalta Agreement or in any
other international understanding, justifying Soviet
occupation of the Habomai-Shikotan a rea at the end of the
war in addition to the Soviet occupation of the Kuril
Islands. It can only be concluded, therefore, that the
Soviet occupation of the Habomai Group and Shikotan
Island was a unilateral action for which no more previous
understanding had been reached than for Soviet occupation
of the island of Hokkaido.
Although the Yalta Agreement did not specifically
provide for the actual occupation by Soviet forces of
the Kuril Islands (or any other area), it did of course
contemplate military operations against Japanese foroes
after the Soviet Union's entry into the war against
Japan (which took place on August 8, 1945). The Yalta
Agreement's provision for the ultimate disposition of
the Kuril Islands unquestionably afforded ample justifi-
cation for the invasion and occupation of this area by
Soviet forces. This action was, of course, recognized
in General Order No. 1 issued to the Japanese Government
by the Supreme Commander on September 2, 1945, which
provided that Japanese forces in Manchuria, North Korea,
southem Sakhalin, and the Kuril Islands were to surrender
to the Commander-in-Chief of Soviet Forces in the Far East.
From Japanese sources it has been learned, however,
that on the basis of a surrender agreement concluded
on August 19, 1945, in Manchuria between the Commander-in-
Chief of Soviet Forces in the Far East and the Chief of
Staff of the Japanese Kwantung Army, Japanese forces through-
out the entire Kuril chain and in the Habomai Group and
Shikotan had ceased hostilities and surrendered their
arms before General Order No. 1 was issued on September 2.
It may be said, therefore, that the Soviet Union, while
invading and occupying the Kuril Islands, lost no time
in extending this military operation to include the
Habomai-Shikotan area, thus confronting the Allied Powers,
and particularly the United States, with a fait acoompli.
The Basic Initial Post-Surrender Directive to SCAP
for the Occupation and Control of Japan, prepared by the
Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS Directive No. 18 of November 8,
1945, Section 4, paragraph d) provides for the complete
governmental and administrative separation from Japan of
certain Pacific islands acquired by Japan since l914,
Manchuria,
SECRET

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
Le patch no. 41 6,
Jame 27, 19 9.
SECRET
-3-
Manchuria, Formosa, the Pescadores, Korea, Karafuto
(southern Sakhalin), and "such other territories as may
be specified in future directives." This provision of
JCS 18, which it may be noted did not specifically mention
the Kuril Islands, was carried out by General Headquarters
through a directive to the Japanese Government on
January 29, 1946 (SCAFIN 677). In defining the areas to
be separated from Japan governmentally and administratively,
SCAPIN 677 specifically enumerates the Kuril Islands as
well as the Habomai Group and Shikotan Island. Historically,
this is the first time that the Habomai-Shikotan area is
dealt with in a document of international character con-
cerned with the territorial boundaries of Japan. Although
the Habomai-Shikotan area was under Soviet occupation
at the time SCAPIN 677 was drafted, such specific mention
of the area in this directive has unfortunately tended to
endorse if not validate the Soviet position there. In
a sense, therefo e, it is believed that SCAPIN 677, while
fundamentally a General Headquarters administrative matter,
will be regarded by the Soviet Government as tantamount
to an addendum to or extension of the provisions of the
Yalta Agreement.
The establishment by the Supreme Commander of the
authorized Japanese fishing area through SCAPIN 1033
of June 22, 1946, as amended, wil1 also no doubt be
cited as supporting the Soviet position in the Kuril Islands
and the Habomai-Shikotan area by its exclusion of these
islands from the scope of the fishing area.
From the historical standpoint, Japan is believed
to have a sound claim to the Kuril and Habomai-Shikotan
islands which is, of course, completely disregarded by
the Yalta Agreement. Historical Japanese records and
extant old maps plainly indicate that from at least the
beginning of the 17th century the Japanese regarded the
Kuril Islands and the Habomai-Shikotan area as Japanese
territory. Moreover, there is abundant historioal evidenoe
to show that the Japanese through almost the entire
Tokugawa period (16o0-l86e) provided some degree of
political administration for the Habomai Group, Shikotan,
and the islands of Kunashiri and Etorofu in the Kuril
archipelago. In contrast, the earliest known Russian
activity in the Kuril Islands did not begin until early
in the l8th century, and there is little evidence of real
Russian political administration in any of-tle islands
until the 19th century。
The first treaty between Japan and Russia, signed
at Shimoda in 1855, clearly divided the Kuril Islands
between the two countries at the Etorofu Straits. By
the Saint Petersburg Treaty of l875, Japan, in exchange
for relinquishing her rights and interests in Sakhalin
to Russia, received from Russia the Kuril Islands
northeast
SECRET

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
northeast of the Etorofu Straits. Thereafter, the Kuril
Islunds were never the subject of dispute or discussion
between the two countries. The Habomai Islands and
Shikotan Island, on the other hand, were never discussed
in connection with the treaty settiements in 1855 and 1875,
their Japanese status never theretofore having been
disputed
With the establishment of Japan's modern system
of political subdivisions and administration after the
Meiji Restoration in 1868, the Kuril Islands in the
possession of Japan were made integral parts of the
Hokkaido prefectural government, forming various dis-
tricts of Chishima-gun, or Chishima County, which is in
turn part of the Nemuro Shicho, or Nemuro Branch Administra-
tion The Habomai Islands and Shikotan Island constituted
another administrative subdivision of the Nemuro Shicho.
There appears to be a tendency to think of the so-
called "minor outlying islands" off the Japanese coasts
independently of their historical relationships to Japan
and the long periods over which some of them have formed
integral parts of the Japanese home administration. It
is believed that any peace settlement with Japan should
give adequate weight to these important historical and
administrative considerations.
In the case of the Kuril Islands, the Habomai
Group, and Shikotan Island, their permanent transfer to
the Soviet Union would necessitate complete disregard
of Japanese territorial claims which are virtually as
valid as the Japanese claim to the island of Hokkaido.
It is therefore believed that, in the event of a peace
settlement, Japan is reasonably entitled to expect some
readjustment of the territorial provisions of the Yalta
Agreement, as now supplemented by the provisions and
implications of SCAPIN 677 and SCAPIN 1O33. It is
believed that consideration should be given to the fact
that, of the Kuril Islands, Etorofu and Kunashiri have
always been regarded as Japanese territory, a faot which
Russia formally recognized in its earliest treaty with
Japan, the Shimoda Treaty of 1855; and that the Habomai
Islands and Shikotan Island have likewise always been
regarded as Japanese territory, their possession by Japan
never having been previously contested or violated until
the unilateral occupation of the area by Soviet forces
in 1945。
There are also believed to be other important
considerations which would justify territorial readjust-
ments in this area. The present administrative boundary
between Japan and Soviet-occupied islands off the eastern
coast
SECRET

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
Sot
-5-
coast of Hokkaido is a tortuous line running through
narrow, fog-bound channels which during the fishing
season bear considerable traffic. If this line becomes
a permanent boundary there will unquestionably occur
continuous violations of Soviet waters by Japanese
craft and violations of Japanese waters by Soviet shipping.
The separation from Japan of the southern Kuril Islands,
the Habomai Group, and Shikotan also deprives the
Hokkaido fisheries of an important fishing area, the loss
of which represents an undesirable restriction on Japan's
overtaxed facilities for producing foodstuffs. Finally,
it should also be recognized that Soviet possession of
Kunashiri Island and the Habomai Group brings Soviet
power within exceedingly close proximity of metropolitan
Japan, a situation which the Japanese cannot help but
regard as a grave strategic liability.
It is believed that the most satisfactory and effective
territorial adjustment could be made by restoring to
Japan the two southernmost Kuril Islands of Etorofu and
Kunashiri, the Habomai Islands, and Shikotan Island.
The relinquishment of this territory, totalling 1,868.69
square miles, could be no substantial loss or burden to
the Soviet Union, while its future possession by Japan
could not conceivably represent a strategic threat to
the Soviet Union or materially assist Japan's hypothetical
revival as a military power. On the other hand, the
recovery of this territory by Japan is in conformity
with valid historical consideration, would enable Japan
to rehabilitate the vital Hokkaido fisheries, and would
eliminate an impractical and controversial political
boundary between Japanese and Soviet territory.
Respectfully yours,
Cloyce K. Huston
Charge d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosure:
Memorandum prepared by
FSO Charles N. Spinks
gun
on "Soviet and Japanese
Territorial Claims to the Kuril
Islands, the Habomai Islands,
and Shikotan Island" dated
June 15, 1949。
Parchment Mat to Department.
322.2
CNSpinks:mhp
SECRET

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 416
dated June 27, 1949. from thé
Office of th Political Adviser:
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Soviet and Japanese Territorial
Claims to the Kuril Islands, the
Habomai Islands, and Shikotan
SECRET
Island"
MEMORANDUM
June 15, 1949
Subject:
Soviet and Japanese Territorial Claims to
the Kuril Islands, the Hubomai Islands,
and Shikotan Island.
The Kuril Islands (known as the Chishima archipelago
in Japanese) are a chain of 13 major islands along with
a number of smaller islets and rocks extending from
Shimushu Island off the southern tip of the Kamchatka
Peninusla to Kunashiri Island off the eastern coast of
Hokkaido. This island chain totals 3,800.06 square
miles, the largest of the islands being Etorofu,
1,243.24 square miles. In 1940 the Kuril Islands had
a population of about 1l,400 permanent Japanese residents,
supplemented by an additional 20, O00 fishermen from
Hokkaido and northern Honshu during the fishing season.
The Habonai Islands (also known as the Suisho or
Goyomai islands) are a small group of five islands
lying off the Nosappu Peninsula in southeastern Hokkaido
The small chain totals only 19.28 square miles over
half of which (1l.96 square miles) is represented by
Shibotsu Island Further to the east is the larger island
of Shikotan (19.3 square miles) which is sometimes regarded
as a part of the Hebomai Group Before the war the Habomai-
Shikotan area had a permanent population of approximately
4,400 Japanese settlers, augmented during the fishing
season by fishermen from Hokkaido.
1。
Soviet Charges of Violations of Soviet
Territorial Waters in the Kuril, Habomai,
and Shikotan Areas.
Movements of Japanese fishing vessels outside the
limits of the authorized fishing area established by
direction of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
on June 22, 1946 (SCAPIN 1033, as amended by SCAPIN 1033/1
of December 23, 1948) have provided the Soviet Member,
Allied Council for Japan, an opportunity to advance the
claim that the Soviet Union at present possesses
territorial
SECRET

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
'osure t Tokyo's
Desratch no
SECRET
-2-
territorial sovereignty in southern Sakhalin, the Kuril
Islands, the Habomai Group, Shikotan Island, and in
waters adjoining these islands which the Soviet Union
occupied at t he end of the war
Between May and October, 1948, Soviet coastal
patrols in the Sakhalin-Kurii area took into custody à
number of Japanese fishing vessels While considerable.
discrepancies exist as to the reported positions of these
vessels at times of seizure, on October 19, 1948,
the Soviet Member, Allied Council for Japan, addressed
a letter to the Supreme Commander in which protest was
made against the alleged violations of "Soviet territorial
waters" by Japanese fishing vessels. As.de from raising
the important question of Soviet territorial sovereignty
in these areas and adjacent waters, the Soviet Member's
letter of October 19 also implied that local Soviet
authorities have the right to take punitive action against
Japanese vessels which violate the limits of the authorized
fishing area
On November 2, 1948, this Mission in its capacity
as the Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters sent
a reply to the Soviet Member The question of Soviet
territorial sovereignty in the areas.and waters concerned
was ignored, but the Soviet Member was informed that it
is the responsibility of the Supreme Commander rather
than that of any individual Power to enforce directives
to the Japanese Government issued by the Supreme Commander,
and that any movements of Japanese vessels outside the area
established by SCAPIN l033 should be dealt with by the
Supreme Commander as the sole responsible authority. A
further conmunication from the Soviet Member, dated
November 27, 1948, rejected this contention as unsatisfactory
since the issue was not, from the Soviet viewpoint, con-
cerned with Japanese violations of the fishing area, but
Japanese violations of "Soviet territorial waters".
The Soviet Member has, therefore, rested the Soviet
position entirely upon the assumption that the Soviet
Union·exercises territorial sovereignty over the areas
and waters concerned. The Soviet Member's insistent
reference to "Soviet territorial waters" in this
correspondence strongly suggests that the movements of
Japanese fishing vessels outside the authorized fishing
area in the vicinity of islands now under Soviet occupation
have offered the Soviet Government a convenient opportunity
to advance a territorial claim, perhaps with the expectation
that out of correspondence on the fishing boat problem,
General Headquarters will give direct or tacit acknowledge-
ment.
There
SECRET

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
J21.,1949。
SEORET
-3-
There is also considerable evidence that the
Soviet Government nas already incorporated southern
Sakhalin, the Kuril Islands, and the Habomai-Shikotan
area into the Soviet Union South Sakhalin and the Kuril
Islands were reportedly made an administrative subdivision
of the Khabarovsk District by an ordinance issued by the
Presidium Executive Committee on February 20, 1946.
Reports from repatriates also indicate that all place
names have been given Russian designations, and that in
the spring of l946 a Soviet civil administration replaced.
the initial military government in southern Sakhalin,
the Kuril Islands, and the Habomai-Shikotan Group. On
February 25, 1947, the Soviet Union Presidium reportedly
adopted regulations making all Sakhalin and the Kuril
Islands a separate administrative area distinct from the
Khabarovsk District These reports, combined with formal
claims to territorial sovereignty noted above, plainly
indicate that t he Soviet Government intends to regard these
areas as permanent, integral parts of the Soviet Union.
II
Basis of Present Soviet Position in
Southern Sakhalin, the Kuril Islands,
and the Habomai-Shikotan Group
The basis of the present Soviet position in southern
Sakhalin and the Kuril Islands, but not in the Habomai
Group and Shikotan Island, is the Three Power Agreement
signed at Yalta on February 11, 1945, by Premier Stalin,
2
President Roosevelt, and Prime Minister Churchill. .This
agreement provides that among the "former rights of Russia
violated by the treacherous attack of Japan in l904 ...
the southern part of Sakhalin as well as the islends
adjacent to it shall be returned to the Soviet Union";.
and that, additionally, "the Kuril islands shall be
handed over to the Soviet Union." With the Soviet Union's
entry into the war against Japan on August 8, 1945, Soviet
forces immediately began the occupation of southern
Sakhalin, the Kuril Islands, and the Habomai-Shikotan
area. No part of the Yalta Agreement or any subsequent
agreements, however, specifically provided for the Soviet
occupation of these territories.
General Order No. 1 of September 2, 1945 (the day of
Japan's formal surrender), issued to the Japanese Govern-
ment by the Supreme Commander, directed that Japanese
forces in "Manchuria, Korea North of 38 degrees North
latitude, Karafuto, and the Kurile Islands shall surrender
to the Commander-in-Chief of Soviet Forces in the Far
East." General Order No. 1 makes no specific mention of
the Habomai Islands or Shikotan Island, and there is no
indication as to whether they were regarded as part of
the Kuril chain or as among the so-called "minor islands"
adjacent to the four main islands of Japan.
According
SECRET

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
. June 27; 1949.
-4-
According to Japanese sources, the surrender of
Japanese units in the above-cited areas to Soviet
forces was already taking place by virtue of an agreement,
reached on August 19, 1945, between the Chief of Staff
of the Japanese Kwantung Army in Manchuria and the
Commander-in-Chief of Soviet Forces in the Far East.
This agreement provided for the local cessation of
hostilities in Manchuria and the surrender of arms. At
the end of the war the Hokkaido-Kuril-Habomai-Shikotan
area was defended by the Fifth Area Army with headquarters
in Hokkaido. The northern Kuril Islands (from Shimushu
to Uruppu) were under the 9lst Division with headquarters
on Paramushiru Island; the southern Kuril Islands
(Etorofu and Kunashiri), the Habomai Group, and Shikotan
Island were defended by the 89th Division with headquarters
on Etorofu In view of the Soviet-Kwantung Army surrender
agreement of August 19. the Commanding General of the
Fifth Area Army ordered the 9lst Division in the northern
Kuril Islands to cease hostilities and surrender its arms
to the Soviet forces The northern Kuril Islands were
then being rapidly occupied by Soviet forces whioh
continued to move down the chain into the southern Kuril
Islands under the jurisdiction of the 89th Division.
On August 31 the Commanding General of the Fifth Area
Army placed the 89th Division under the comrand of the
9lst Division in order to facilitate the surrender of
the southern Kuril Islands into which Soviet foroes
were then pouring. Before the order could be executed,
however, the entire Kuril chain, including Kunashiri,
as well as the Habomai Group and Shikotan Island, were
completely in Soviet hands General Order No. 1 of
September 2, therefore, did not actually effeot the
surrender of Japanese forces in the Kuril Islands. Before
it was issued the Japanese in the Kuril Islands as well
as in the Habomai-Shikotan area had surrendered to the
Soviet forces on the basis of the August 19 agreement.
While providing a basis, or accord, for the Soviet
military occupation of the Kuril Islands and southern
Sakhalin, neither the Yalta Agreement nor any subsequent
understanding entitles the Soviet Union to territorial
sovereignty over these areas At most, the Yalta Agree-
ment must be regarded as a preliminary understanding
among the Soviet Union, the United States, and Great
Britain with respect to the future disposition of oertain
parts of the Japanese Empire, The Soviet Union, therefore,
cannot claim territorial sovereignty in southern Sakhalin
and the Kuril Islands any more than the United States
can claim territorial soveroignty over the Ryukyu Islands,
or China over Formosa. Southern Sakhalin, and the Kuril
Islands, like the Ryukyu Islands and Formosa, were
integral parts of the Japanese Empire, their Japanese
territorial status having been previously recognisedeby
the Powers, including the Soviet Union, the Unitua St
and China, in various treaties as well as in diplomatia
and general usage. What the Soviet Union do
present enjoy in southern Sakhalin and. the Kuril Islands
is administrative control by virtu of military ocoupation.
Unlike
SECRET

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Unlike southern Salhalin and Formosa which were
integral parts of the Japanese Empire but in the form
of colonial possessions with distinct ∞lonial administra-
tions, the Kuril Islands, like the Ryukyu Islands, were
administratively and politically, integral parts of
Metropolitan Japan. The Ryukyu Isl ands constituted one
of Japan's home prefectures. The Kuril Islands were an
integral part of the Hokkaido administration, forming
districts of one of the gun, or counties, which make
up the Nemuro Shicho, or Nemuro Branch Administration.
Notwithstanding the distinction between parts of
the Japanese Empire and integral parts of the Japanese
home islands (Metropolitan Japan), it is clear that
Sakhalin, the Kuril Islands, the Ryukyu Islands, and
Formosa were internationally recognized as territories
over which Japan enjoyed full and undisputed sovereignty.
From the standpoint of accepted international law and
procedure, therefore, any transfer of sovereignty over
these territories must be upon the basis of a formal
treaty or instrument to which Japan, as the party
relinquishing sovereignty, is a signatory. The problem
of Korea, however, appears to represent a distinct
exception to this generalization While Korea was
also an integral part of the Japanese Empire, it. was
also once an independent, sovereign state and was so
recognized by the Powers, incl uding Japan, in formal
treaties and agreements.' Its postwar detachment from
Japan does not, therefore, appear to be a territorial
transfer, but a restoration of sovereignty, the effecting
of which would not necessarily require formal acknowledg-
ment by Japan in a treaty or other international instrument.
III. Other Allied Policy Statements Concening
Japan's Territorial Limits
The Yalta Agreement does not specifically define
the geographical limits of the term "Kurile Islands"
used therein. Other declarations end policy documents
concerning the territorial limits of Japan are equally
general in so far as the so-called minor outlying islands
are concerned.
The Cairo Declaration of December 1, 1943, states
that "Japan shall be stripped of all the islands of'the
Pacific which she has seized or occupied since the
beginning of the First World War in 19l4, and that all
territories Japan has stolen from the Chinese such as
Manchuria, Formosa, and the Pescadores, shall be restored
to the Republic of China. Japan shall also be expelled
from all other territories which she has taken by
violence and greed." It is difficult to envisage
application
SECRET
1/ See Administrative Subdivisions of Japan, Department
of State, August, 1946.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
2.110..410
Jun 27, 1949.
-6-
application of the Cairo Declaration's territorial
provisions to the Kuril Islands They were acquired by
Japan long before the first World War, they were not
"stolen" from China (or anyone else), and the manner in
which Japan acquired the islands by the Shimoda and
Saint Petersburg treaties of 1855 and 1875, respectively,
hardly suggests that Japan secured this territory by
"violence and greed"
The Potsdam Declaration of July 26, 1945, however,
somewhat elaborates the territorial provisions outlined
at Cairo, with the statement that "the terms of the Cairo
Declaration shall be carried out and Japanese sovereignty
shall be limited to the islands of Honshu, Hokkaido,
Kyushu, Shikoku and such minor islands as we determine.
The Instrument of Surrender, signed on September 2, 1945,
makes no mention of territorial limitations, but the
United States Initial Post-Surrender Policy for Japan,
prepared jointly by the State, War, and Navy Departments
on August 29, 1945, restates the provisions of the Potsdam
Declaration to the effect that "Japan's sovereignty will
be limited to the islands of Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu,
Shikoku and such minor outlying islands as may be determined."
More specific is the Basic Initial Post-Sur render Directive
to SCAP for the Occupation a nd Control of Japan, prepared
by the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS Directive No. 18), dated
November 8, 1945. which defines Japan as "the four main
islands of Japan Hokkaido (Yezo), Honshu, Kyushu, and
Shikoku and about 1 Ooo smaller adjacent islands including
the Tsushima Islands "
JCS Directive No. 18 (also known as JCS 1380/15)
specifically provides in Section 4, d for the separation
of Japan from certain outlying areas.
"You /the Supreme Commander/will take appro-
priate steps in Japan to effect the complete
governmental and administrative separation
from Japan of (1) all Pacific islands which
she has seized or occupied under mandate or
otherwise since the beginning of the World
War in 1914, (2) Manchuria, Formosa, and
the Pescadores, (3) Korea, (4) Karafuto, and
(5) such other territories as may be specified
in future directives"
The implementation of this provision of JCS
Directive No. 18 was carried out by a General Headquarters
directive to the Japanese Government of January 29, 1946
(SCAPIN 677), whereby the Japanese Government was
directed "to cease exercising, or attempting to exercise,
governmental or administrative authority over any area
outside
SECRET

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
.De uuch no. 416,
2719
StomT
-7-
outside Japan, or over any government officials and
employees or any other persons within such areas." For
the purpose of this directive, Japan was defined as
including the four main islands (Hokkaido, Honshu,
Kyushu, and Shikoku), along with approximately 1,óoo
smaller adjacent islands. including the Tsushima Islands
and the Ryukyu (Nansei) Islands north of 30 degrees
north latitude (exeluding Kuchinoshima Island). The
territories excluded. and thereby separated governmentally
and administretively from Japan, are as follows:
"(a)
Utsuryo (Ullung) Island, Liancourt Rocks
(Take Island) and uelpart (Saishu or
Cheju) Island;
"(b)
The Ryukyu (Nansei) Islands south of 30 degrees
North Latitude (including Kuchinoshima Island),
the Izu. Nanpo, Bonin (Ogasawara) and Volcano
(Kazan or Iwo) Island Groups, and all other
outlying Pacifio Islands /Including the Daito
(Ohigashi or Gugari) Is and Group, and Parece
Vela (Okino-tori). Mardus (Minami-tori) and
Ganges (Nakano tori) Islands7;
"()
The Kuril (Chishima) Islands, the Habomai
(Hapomaze) Island Group (including Suisho,
Yuri, Akiyuri, Shobotsu and Taraku Islands)
and Shikotan Island "
A further paragraph of SCAPIN 677 excluded all Pacific
islands seized or occupied under mandate or otherwise
by Japan since the beginning of the World War in 1914,
Manchuria, Formosa, and the Pescadores, Korea, and
Karafuto (southern Sakhalin). The definition of Japan
used in SCAPIN 677 is to apply to all future directives
and communications from General Headquarters, but "noth-
ing in this directive shall be construed as an indication
of Allied policy relating to the ultimate determination
of the minor islands referred to in Article 8 of the
Potsdam Declaration " This qualification in SCAPIN 677
does not apply, of course, to the territories enumerated
as being outside the directive's definition of Japan,
since Article 8 of the Potsdam Declaration is concerned
solely with the limiting of Japanese sovereignty to the
four main islands "and such minor islands as we determine".
It will at once be noted that SCAPIN 677 provides
a much more detailed and precise delimitation of Japan
than any definition found in previous documents, includ-
ing JCS Directive No 18 The detailed delimitation
defined in SCAPIN 677 to implement Section 4, d of JCS
Directive No. 18 was formulated in the Government Seotion
of General Headquarters, and the Habomai Islands and
Shikotan Island are for the first time specifically
mentioned in a document dealing with the boundaries of
Japan。
It
SECRET

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
osure t: Tokyo's
118
1949.
SECRET
-8-
It would appear that in drafting SCAPIN 677 the
Government Section Went onsiderably beyond the scope
of Section 4, d of JC3 Directive No. 18 The terms of
this directive are, of course, general and any practical
implementation wouid require a more detailed definition
of Japan"s limits especially with respect to small and
widely s cattered islands Nevertheless, it is significant
that JCS Directive No 18 mentioned neither the Kuril
Islands nor the Habomai-Shikotan Islands, although Karafuto
is specifically cited in Section 4, d. Since the Kuril
Islands were in effect pledged to the Soviet Union by
the Yalta Agreement and were under Soviet occupation at the
time SCAPIN 677 was drafted, any practical implementation
of Section 4, d would of necessity have required specific
mention of the Kuril Islends. The Habomai-Shikotan area,
however. was not mentioned in the Yalta Agreement, nor,
in fact hes itn er been mentioned in any international
instrument however far back in history, having always
been regarded and accepted as an integral part of Japan.
The only consideration favoring specific mention of this
area in SCAPIN 677 was its unilateral if not unauthorized
occupation by Soviet forces By specifically citing
the Habomai-Shikotan area, however, SCAPIN 677 tends
substantially to endorse if not validate the Soviet
position there It is especially significant that SCAPIN 677
does not describe the Habomai Islands and Shikotan Island
as an integral part of the Kuril archipelago. . On the
contrary, they are specifically enumerated along with
the Kurii Islands. and from the wording of the text of
SCAPIN 677 it is difficult to avoid the implication
that the Soviet Union is thereby recognized as enjoying
a position in both the Kuril Islands and the Habomai-
Shikotan area as two distinct regions. While the Yalta
Agreement "handed over" the Kuril Islands to the Soviet
Union, it may be said that SCAPIN 677 in effect "handed
over" the Habomai Group and Shikotan Island, and must,
therefore, be regarded as a kind of addendum to the
provisions of the Yalta agreement
It may be argued that practical considerations at
the time SCAPIN 677 was drafted precluded any other
course of action, especially the fact that Soviet forces
were actually in possession of the Habomai-Shikotan
area. Nevertheless, if there was ever a more opportune
time to attempt to clarify the status of the Habomai-
Shikotan islands, it was certainly before General Head-
quarters undertook by SCAPIN 677 to effect the governmental
and administrative separation of this territory from
Japan.
Since
SECRET

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
 7un0 27; 1949。
-9-
三
Since JCS Directive No. 18 was put into force
before the creation of the Far Eastern Commission,
this directive was later filed with the Commission for
review. Upon the basis of this directive, the Far
Eastern Comnission undertook to formulate its own
basic post surrender policy for Japan While none of the
provisions of JCS Directive No 18 were disapproved by
the Far Eastern Commission, it did result in an FEC policy
decision of June 19. 194?. entitled "Basic Post-Surrender
Policy for Japan" Nothing equivalent to Section 4, d
of JCS Directive No 18 providing for governmental and
administrative separation of specified areas appears in
the FEC Folicy Decision of June 19. 1947. the only
territorial stipulation of which provides that "Japan's
sovereignty wili be limited to the islands of Honshu,
Hokkaido, Kyushu, Shikoku and such minor outlying
islands as may be determined " The Far Eastern Commission
has not therefore in its own policy decisions committed
itself to a precise delimitation of Japan's future national
boundaries in terms of such areas as the Kuril Islands,
the Habomai Group, and Shikotan Island.
It is significant to note in passing that shortly
after General Headquarters issued SCAPIN 677 on January 29,
1946. this Mission in its capacity as Office of the
United States Political Adviser. sent a communication
to the Supreme Commander on February 26, 1946, enclosing
for the Supreme Comman er's information a copy of a
Department of State memorandum dated, January 29, 1946,
which gives a brief sunmary of Japan's claims to the Kuril
Islands and the previous Russo-Japanese treaties governing
their disposition
2
IV
Establishment of a Japanese Fishing Area
By SCAPIN 1033 of June 22, 1946 (as amended) the
Supreme Commander established an area embracing waters
around the Japanese islands in which Japanese fishing
and whaling are authorized The establishment of this
area is, of course, a SCAP administrative matter and
is not legally definitive of the territorial sovereignty
of Japan, although undoubtedly it will be a factor in
the Soviet claim to the entire Kuril chain as well as
to the Habomai Group and Shikotan Island.
The limit of the fishing area in the vininity
of the Kuril Islands was established at a line running
three miles off the eastern coast of Hokkaido to a
point off Cape Nosapru, and thence passing through a
point
2 Department's instruction no 73 of February 4, 1946.
SECRET

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
.  rosure to Tokyo's
二.petch r
416,
SECRET
-10-
point midway between Cape Nosappu and Kaigarajima, a small
rock at the eastern extremity of the Habomai Group. Thus
the waters of the Habomai Group, Shikotan, and the entire
Kuril chain are excluded from the fishing area which in
this vicinity is limited to only a three-mile belt along
the eastern coast of Hokkaido. narrowing to a channel
about one mile in width in the Goyomai Straits between
Kaigara-jima und Cape Nosap u
The authorized fishing area, therefore, pays
particular respect to the Soviet position in the Kuril-
Habomai-Shikotan area Such respect for the Soviet
position however. is not necessitated by the Yalta
Agreement cr any subseguent measure, including ScAPIN 677
which detached these territories f rom Japan. By comparison,
it may be noted that the Ryukyu Islands are entirely
within the authorized fishing area, although they were
also detached from Japan by SCAfIN 677 and their present
legal status is fully comparable to that of the Kuril
Islands, viz occupied territory While important
political considerations have, of course, governed the
deference shown the Soviet Union in this matter, and have
likewise overruled a proposal for a northern extension
of the boundaries of the fishing area, it should be
recognized that such deference tends to substantiate the
Soviet position and will un uestionably be exploited by
the Soviet Government in the e vent that any effort is
made to readjust the territorial stipulations of the
Yalta Agreement
V
Japanese Claims to the Kuril Islands
It wouli appear that those who participated in
the Yalta Ccnference were either ignorant of or completely
ignored the historical basis of Japan's position in the Kuril
Islands, and, accordingly. readily consented to the Soviet
demand that this territory be "handed over."
From at least the beginning of the l7th century,
the Japanese regarded the Kuril Islands (or what they
knew of the archipelago) and to a lesser extent Sakhalin
as parts of the northern Japanese district of Ezo (the early
name for Hokkaido) which the Tokugawa Shogunate in 1603
made the feudal fief of the Matsumae family.
The Kuril Islands first became vaguely known to
Europeans as a result of their "discovery" by the Dut ch
navigator Maarten GerritszooL a'Vries in 1643. His
crude map shows only Kunashiri ("State Land") and part of
Etorofu
SECRET

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
June 27, 1949.
-11-
torofu ("Compagnies Land") as lying off the eastorn
coast of "Jeso" (Ezo, or Hokkaido).
The first Japanese map attempting to depict the
Kuril Islands is the famous Shoho Map, made in the firt
year of the Shot mere,  r 1644. Prepared on orders of
the Tokugawa Shogunate, the wap shows the entire area
of Japan, being a compilation of individual regional maps
prepared by the various feudal lords The section covering
northernmost Japan was therefore presumably made by.the
Matsumae daimyo to show the Matsumae domain. Ezo, or
Hokkaido, Is depicted in an exceedingly distorted manner;
to the North of Ezo is a smeller island (Sakhalin) and to
the northeast are over thirty shs ll islands, most of which
are named, representing the Kuril archipelago.
The so-called !o ani Map, prepared by Tokunai
Mogami and submitted to the Shogunate in 1791 with a
report on the custons and manner of Ezo, gives a fairly
accurate delineation of the Kuril Islands and the Habomai-
Shikotan group This  depenled to a considerable
extent on Russian sources for data on the Kuril Islands
north of Urupru, but Etorofu. Kunashiri, and the Habomai-
Shikotan area were drawn on the basis of extensive surveys
ofeEzo nd viei pity conducted on orders of the Shogunate
in the years 1785-1786
There are a number of other Japanese maps of this
area made before the l9th century, but in all maps and
chronicles of the period the Kurii Islands are elther
indicated directly or by implicution as being a part of
the Matsumae domain in Ezo
The first reported appearance of Russians in the Kuril
archipelago occurred about 171l-1713 when an exploring
party entered the island chain from Kamchatka. By the
end of the l8th century the Russians had extensively
explored the archipelago as far south as Uruppu where a small
settlement was established  The Russian advance alarmed
the Japanese who desputchel several expeditions toward
the end of the l8th century to investigate Russian aotivities,
make surveys, and establish markers proclaiming the islands
Japanese territory. As a further measure, the Shogunate
terminated the Matsumae administration of the Kuril Islands
in 1799 and assumed direct control over the territory.
In l8ol the Shogunate sent an expedition to Uruppu to
demand that the Russian settlement be withdrawn. The
Russians complied with this demand in l805 and thereafter
there appears to have been a kind of unwritten understand-
ing whereby the Uruppu Channel (between Uruppu and Shimushiru
islands) served as the boundary between the Russian and
Japanese spheres of influence in the Kuril Islands.
Before the Shogunate assumed direot administration
of the Kuril Islands in 1799, they had been universally
regarded in Japan as the private holdings of the Mataumae
family
SEORET

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
-:-pe cch no: 416,
June 27, 1 19.
-13-
family which had enjoyed a feudal suzerainty over
Ezo as a result of having received the territory as a.
fief at the beginning of the 17th century. During the
first half of the 19th century, although the Tokugawa
Shogunate with its feudal basis of administration continued
to govern Japan, the Kuril Islands began to acquire a
more modern political significance with plain implications
of western concepts of national ownership and sovereignty.
This was occasioned in part by the transfer of the
territory frc clal (fcudal) administrtion to shogunal.
(netional) administrstion nd in part by the confliot
between Russian und Juranese interests in the islands
and subse ent negotiations on the subject which at
once gave the Kuril Tslands an international signiricanoe.
It is interesting to ote therefore that the more
accurate maps of the Ezo, J khalin, and the Kuril areas
in the first hnlf of tle lits century acquired an
unmistakable politicil character with distinot colors
employed to indicate national ownership or sovereignty.
One of the best maps of this new category is entitled
Kaisho Ezc Zenzu which it is significant to note means
"The Revised Map of Al! Ezo" The map was drawn by
Ki Toshima on the basis of Japanese surveys and available
information from Russin and other foreign souroes. It
was published by  pck printing in Edo (Tokyo) in
the 7th year of the kaei era, or 1854. A copy of this
map is in the undersigned's possession.
"The Revised Map of All zo" depicts Hokkaido,
the Kuril Islands, and Sakhalin Ezo is classified as
three areas The southern part of the island now known
as Hokkaido is labeled Ezo; the northern part, Nishi (West)
Ezo; the eastern part, Higashi (East) Ezo; while the
1sland of Sakhalin is marked Kita (North) Ezo. In an
explanatory note, it is stated that although there are
various names for Sakhalin. it is referred to as Kita Eso.
From the standpoint of coloring, the island now known as
Hokkaido, Sakhalin, Uruppu. Etorofu, and Kunashiri in the
Furil Islands, and Shikotan and the Habonai Islanls huve a
yellow border, indicating Japanese territory. The othor
Kuril Islands from Shimushiru northward have a green border,
indicating Russian territory.
The undersigned has in his possession a number of
other woodblock printed maps published in this period which,
while not so accurate from the cartographlo standpoint,
are of interest as examples of the extent to whioh the
Kuril Islands had acquired a modern political signifioance
to the Japanese
1. Totatau
SECRET

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
U 0.1,
Tine 27, 1949.
-13-
1. Totatsu Enkai Zu (Map of the Coast of Eastorn
Tartary). Published In Edo in the 7th year of Kaei (lese),
this map shows the Sea of Okhotsk, the coast of Siberia
Sakhalin, the Kamchatka Peninsula, and the islands strotohimi
from Kamchatka to Hokkaido, Hokkaido, and the northern
tip of the main island of Japan, Honshu. Northern Honshu
and Hokkaido are indicated in yellow for Japanese territory.
This color is also used for Shikotan Island and the
Habomai Group, eni the islands of Kunashiri and Etorofu.
Sakhalin is de ic: d as to islands, the southern and
larger one,  1 Karaiito, and the northern one, Sakhalin.
About one hulr or the cou! srn island culled Karafuto is
shaded yellow with the rereinder as well as the island
called Sakhalin cclorei pink The color pink, however,
is used to indicate territory marked on the map as
"s", or a part of China A uotted ine extending
westwurd from a point north of the mouth . the Amur
River is labelled "Russian Border" (Roshia Kokkyo).
The area north of this line ani extending eastward to
the Kamchatke Peninsula ani t! ence southwest through
the Kuril Islands to and in:luding Uruppu Island is
shaded green, indiceting Russien territory. Aooording to
this map, therefore, Shikotan. the Habomai Group, Kunashiri,
and Etorofu were regardedas arts of Tokugawa Japan,
along with a rortion of the slani of Kurefuto. 
2 Dai Nipnon Enkai Yokyo Zenzu (Complete Map of
Important Features of the Coe ts of Japan). This map,
also published in Edo in 1854, shows the entire Japanese
archipelaco, the Bonin Islands. the Ryukyu Islands, Korea,
the present Maritime Province. the littoral of the Sea
of Okhotsk, including the Kanchatka Peninsula, and the
Kuril Islands It is printed in three colors from
engraved wood blocks All Japanese areas are shaded in
pink and, besides the four main islands, include the
Bonin Islands, the Ryukyu Islunds, the Tsushima Islands,
the Habomai Group, Shikotan Island and Kunashiri,
Etorofu, and Urupru in the Kuril . ain, along with
approximately half of Salhalin. Korea and the territory
which is nov the Maritime Provinee are shaded yellow
indicating Chinese territory, while the littorel of the
Sea of Okhotsk, the Kumchatka Peninsula, and the remaining
Kuril Islands are shaded reen, indicatin 'an
territory.
3. Manshu
3 Parenthetically, it may be noted that Russio  tually
acquired sovereignty over the area on this mr. a. rkeu
"Manshu", which s approximately the present Maritime
Province, first, by the Treaty of Aigun (Lay 29, 1858)
with China by which the Sino-Russian boundery was fixed
first at the Amur River, and later by the Treaty of Poking
(November 14, 1P:() by which China ceded to Russia all
territory east of the Ussuri River (the present Maritime
Province). Earlier, by the Treaty of Nerohinsk (1689),
the Russo-Chinese boundary had been defined as the
northern watershed of the Amur River.
SECRET

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.89)
-14-
3. Manshu Roshi Kyokai u (Iap of the Manohurian
and Russian Borters
 is unduted, but from the
character o e   rintin und coloring it is
probably of the Kee
I: dspicts the northern tip
of Honshu, Hoklalao
 Islends,Sakhalin (indloated
as a tenihsule 
!). the present Maritime
Province.
ineluing the Kamchatka
Penincula
torofu,the
Kamehath 
ut in of Siheria to a
point mort
 River are shaded
a light ban,
oryThe present
Mart P
 color extends over
a porti
"ite Ez2 Chi"(North
220 D
e.is a sicall
islund
shu. Hokkaidc
(m ske
ninsule called ita
Ezo Jhi
Kunashiri, and
Etorefu
i Japacese territory.
lete p of the Ezo
Distriets
l ap of the
northern .
ue17(1854).
Kameh
vinc(arked "Santan"
and "ns"
rle vith mountains
in green
The
northern Honshu,
Hokkaio. Sak
1 T: a. is u kind
of yellow
nCn this map the
entire Euri! h
: boi-Shikotan area
are coloree in 
ou!' ir  ieate th t these
territoris
Jn. The Kuril
Islands aro l
tional Jupenese
name) with ot
nown by the names
Chupuka  
 colled Kita Ezo
Karafuto (Nor.. o 
note that the island
is also knonn s S
iEastern Hokkaido
is merked lieei ()   morthestern pert of
the island. Nih ()   tlrn part,
Kuchi Ezo. literll
"nte to Ezo"
5 Hokenile Le  Gu u ar  the Provinees end
Counties of Hok)
second year of te iji . (lece)  the Kaitakushi
a governrent oi r for t he purpose
of developing lok iuo. me ap is printei in colors
from engraved ooi blce Hokkside, Sukhalin, and
the Kuril Tslani in th  clors and arawn in
minute detail, S...all rortion: o? tie present Maritime
Province and tio Kachatka leninsula aiso appear at
the eu es of the  at ue olored  light grey and
are without topograhi l  though this map
was published rter he oohel sion of the Shinoda Treaty
of 1855 which livlacd the Kuril Tsla 1s between Jaran
and Russia at the Btorofu Straits, the cartographio
treatn ent of tie Kuri: Islanls und Sukhalin would
suggest that the Kuitukushi regarded these areas as
parts of Hokkaido. The political subdivisions of
Hokkaido
SLCRET

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.91)
J: 27, 1949.
Su
-15-
Hokkaido proper are pl inly indicated on the map;
Kunashiri and Ftcror islends are marked "Chishima shu
and the two islandc e ubdiviied into gun. Southern
Sakhalin is labelleu "Kawafuto- (sic.) shu", but no gun
subdivisions are indicate: The Habomai Islands and
Shikotan appear es  nart or Nenuro-cun in Nemuro-shu.
While the colori possibly suggest
that all the Kuri!i  hulin were regarded as
belonging to J.n
i Treaty of Shimoda, there
is no doubt fren
: tie p and its title
that the ofrie
ried the following
areas i
nthe Habomai
Island 
i Etorofu islands,
and the the
or which Japanese
provineial name
or county names
are plainly ina
VI
Crcuty Settlements
Is anis and Sakhalin
Threlate
t century Russo
Japanese conte .
ril Islands and
Sakhalin :t
loaced ceries of
interrupted cecnt.
 1813 by the
so-culled Rihort Mi:
lly resulted in the
first formal troay tn Je u  nd Russia, signed
at shimoda on Fobroor
Te French text of Artiole
2 of this tree 
La fron iu et la Jar I passera
desers  le
ouroup et Ouroup.
Tour prartrent tout entiere au
Jap. ut   Curo, insi yue les autres
flerE s ites rordcette fle,
appe siennvat . lu husste
Krafto
(Sakhaline   ic), le roste comme
par le passe. laivise entre la Russi. et le
Japon
By this treuty aussle resegnized Japan's possession
of the islands of Kunashiri ni Stororu, while Japan
recognized Russia's possession of the remaining islands
of the Kuril chain. the houndaiy between the two countries
being established at tr siruits betw en torofu and
Uruppu islands At t'e sa..c tine, Russia and Japan
agreed that the island of Karafuto (Sakhalin) was to
remain undivided, or wit out bounlery, between them.
In other words, the tre. ey reco nized a kind of joint
occupancy or condominim n. The Shi.moda Treaty of 1855
is the first formal iustruuent in international relations
concerned with the Kuril Islands, but it is significant
to note that it makes no mention of the Habomai Islands
or Shikotan.
After
SECRET

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
Du patch no. 416,
 27, 19.2.
SECRET
-16-
After the Treaty of Shimoda there was a marked
increase in Russian activity in Sakhalin, and the Japanese
Government decided that it was advisable to establish
a definite delimitation of the Russian and Japanese
positions. After a long period of negotiations a general
settlement was made by the Russo-Japanese Treaty of
Saint Petersburg, signed on May 7. 1875 This treaty
is officially known as the Treaty for the Exchange of
the Island of Sakhalin with the Group of the Kuril
Islands (Traite d'Echange de 1'ile de Sakhaline Contre
le Groupe des Iles Kouriles) By Article 1, Japan
ceded to Russia its rights and interests in Sakhalin,
and by Article 2, Russia ceded to Japan the portion of
the Kuril Islands then in Russia's possession, enumerated
as eighteen islands between Shimushu, at the extreme
northern tip of the chain, to Uruppu, inclusive. By
this treaty, the Russo-Japanese boundary in the Kuril
area was established as the straits between Cape Lopatka
on Kamchatka and Shimushu Island
The Saint Petersburg Treaty thus gave Japan full
sovereignty over the Russian portion of the Kuril Islands,
as rreviously recognized by the Treaty of Shimoda, making
the entire Kuril archipelago Japanese territory. It
should be noted that the Saint Petersburg Treaty was
concerned only with Uruppu and the Kuril Islands north
thereof. The erroneous statement frequently appears
th-t Japan, by the Saint Petersburg Treaty of 1875,
exchanged her interests in Sakhalin for all the Kuril
Islands. Like the Treaty of Shimoda, the xchunge agree-
ment of 1875 also made no reference to the Hapomai Islands
or Shikotan Island。
As a result of the Russo-Japanese War (1904-1905),
Japanese forces invaded and occupied Sakhalin. At the
Portsmouth Peace Conference,  denanded that Russia
cede to Japan the entire isiand, but a compromise
settlement was finally incorporated in Article 9 of the
Portsmouth Treaty of September 5, 1905, by which Japan
received from Russia the southern half of Sakhalin with
the 50th degree of north latitude serving as the boundary
between the two countries. The Kuril Islands, let alone
the Habomai-Shikotan area, was not discussed at the
Portsmouth Peace Conference.
VII. The Validity of the Yalta Agreement
Viewed from the historical stendpoint, the Soviet
Union has no valid claim to the Kuril Islands, except,
of course, as a war prize for the Soviet Union's belated
and limited participation in the war against Japan. On
this basis, however, the Soviet Union would be equally
entitled to claim any other part of Japan as a war
prize, such as Hokkaido.
The
SECRET

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
D.s atch no.: 416,
2719
SzOnLT
-17-
The Soviet claim to southern Sakhalin, also
endorsed by the Yalta Agreement, has some validity
in that Japan had once recognized, by the Saint Petersburg
Treaty of i875, full Russian sovereignty over the entire
island, but had later, as a result of the Russo-Japanese
War, received the southern half of the island on the basis
cf what might be called a "war prize" claim. The Kuril
Islands, however, afford no such considerations for
governing their disposition
The Habomai Islands and Shikoten Island were not
specifically mentioned in the Yalta Agreement. While a
part of the Kuril Islands and Sakhalin were at various
times the subjects of conflicting claims between Japan
and Russia and were dealt with in formal treaties between
the two countries, at no time were the Habomai Islands
and Shikotan Island ever the subjects of international
dispute or discussion These islands have always been
regarded and recognized as integral parts of Metropolitan
Japan.
The present Soviet position in the Habomai Islands
and Shikotan Island stems from the failure to make a
clear and accurate definition of the Kuril Islands at the
time the Yalta Agreement was concluded, the unilateral
occupation of the Habomai-Shikotan area by Soviet forces
at the end of the war, and the tacit endorsement of
Soviet occupation afforded by General Headquarters in
SCAPIN 677 and SCAPIN 1053. The Habomai-Shikotan area
was apparently never mentioned in the discussions at
Yalta, and the Soviets were  ly permitted thereby
to have the impression that we considered these islands
a part of the Kuril chain, geographically and administratively.
When Japan surrendered, Soviet forces lost no time in
occupying these islands, aided by the fact, of course,
that no other Allied force was thel. to cupy them first.
They have thus been acquired by the Soviet Union largely
through default
VIII
Future Considerations
By virtue of the loose language of the Yalta
Agreement, along with the Soviet Union's rapid occupation
of the Kuril Islands, the Habomai Group, and Shikotan
Island in the last days of the war, the Soviet Government
is able to advance substantial territorial claims to these
areas which are difficult to contest Furthermore, the
Soviet Government is now in the adventageous position to
point, if necessity arises, to what amounts to tacit
recognition of the Soviet position in these islands by
measures which in effect supplement end fortify the terms
of the Yalta Agreement, namely, SCAPIN 677 and SCAPIN
1033. Nevertheless, in any future discussion of this
subject, such as may take place at a peace conference,
it would be well to take into careful account the foliowing
considerations:
SECRET
1. Historical

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
tch no. 416,
T 27, 1019.
-18-
1. Historical Position of the Kuril Islands. By the
Saint Petersburg Treaty of 1875, in exchange for Japan's
relinquishment of her claims to and interests in Sakhalin,
Russia relinquished certain islands; but these were not
the entire chain from Kamchatka to Hokkaido, because the
entire chain was not in Russia's possession. The two
southern islands of Kunashiri and Etorofu have always in
historical times belonged to Japan, a situation which
Russia formally recognized as early as the Shimoda Treaty
of 1855 By the Saint Petersburg Treaty, Russia merely
relinquished what was then recognized as the Russian
portion of the chuin, namely, Uruppu and the islands
north thereof
2. Historical Position of the Habomai Group and
Shikotan These islends have always been regarded and
recognized as integral parts of Japan, and their status
has never been the subject of discussion or dispute between
Japan and eny other country The only instruments of
an international character dealing directly with this
Warea are SCAPIN 677 and SCAPIN 1033, both of which,
however, should be regarded as purely SCAP administrative
measures having no legal bearing on the ultimate disposition
of these islands.
3. The Problem of an Effective Boundary. If the
Soviet Union is permitted to remain in permanent possession
of the entire Kuril chain from Kamchatka to Hokkaido and
the Habomai Group and Shikotan Island, the boundary between
Japan's nosition in Hokkaido and the Soviet position in
the Kuril-Iubomai area will present a difficult problem.
The narrow waters separating Hokkaido from the Kuril
Islands and the Habomai Group bear considerable traffic
during the fishing season when there are frequently
dense fogs in this srea Such a situation will unguestion-
ably lead to repeated violations of Soviet-held waters
by Japanese vessels and violations of Japanese waters
by-Soviet craft From a practicel standpoint, therefore,
a boundary line running between Hokkaido and Kunashiri
Island and thence through the narrow Goyomai Straits
between Cape Nosappu and Kaigara-jima does not offer a
satisfactory boundary。
4. Economic Considerations. Heretofore, the
important Hokkaido fisheries have depended to a considerable
extent upon the waters of the Kuril Islands, the Habomai
Group, and Shikotan. From the Habomai area alone was
produced almost half of Hokkaido's edible seaweed which
in turn amounted to about 97 percent of Japan's total
production. Furthermore, other fisheries, particularly
crab, in the Hokkaido region are primarily dependent
upon the waters between the Habomai-Shikotan group and
Kunashiri
SECRET

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
1e.c no..41o,.
June 27, 1940.
SECRET
-19-
Kunashiri Island. The loss of these islands represents
an exceedingly critical restriction on Japan's already
overtaxed facilities for producing foodstuffs. From
pre-war experience with the Soviet-Japanese fishing
conventions, by which Japanese were permitted to fish
in Siberian waters, it is very unlikely that Japan in the
foreseeable future will be able to acquire fishing rights
from the Soviet Union in the Kuril Islands, the Habomai
Group, Shikotan, or elsewhere
5 Strategic Considerations Soviet possession of
Kunashiri Island and the Habomai Islands brings the
ominous power of the Soviet Union within exceedingly
close proximity to Metropolitan Japan That the Japanese
must regard such close proximity to their disarmed homeland
a grave liability is only natural
In view of these important historical, economic,
and strategic considerations, Japan is fuliy justified
in expecting a reasonable territorial ustment in
this area. It is believed that such a readjustment should
restore to Japan those territories which have always
been recognized as integral parts of the Japanese home
islands and which have never heretofore been the subject
of dispute, namely, the two southernnost Kuril Islands
of Etorofu and Kunashiri, the Habonai Islands, and
Shikotan Island Such a readjustment could be of no
conceivable loss or burden to the Soviet Union, either
economically or strategically The territory involved
consists of only 1,868 69 square mile. 1,8 0.11 square
miles represented by Kunashiri and Etororu, nd only
38 58 square miles represented by the Habomai Group and
Shikotan The restoration of this territory to Japan,
however, would go far to rehabilitate the vital Hokkaido
fisheries, eliminate a real strategic hazard to Japan,
and provide a far more satisfactory political boundary
betw en Soviet and Japanese territories. Instead of
the tortuous "MecArthur Line" now running through the
narrow, fog-bound Nenuro, Kokke, and Goymai channels,
the boundary would be at the center of the Etorofu Straits,
the deep water channel, free from dangerous tides and
currents, which separates Etorofu and Uruppu islands, with
a width of 22 miles at its narrowest point.
Chiwies A pmles
Charles N。 Spinks
SECRET

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.92)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEORAPBR
Action Taken
1529
AIGR
SA
Date of Action
801
Action Office Symbol
FROA: US. UL, Tokyo.
Name of Officer
Direction to DC/R
Date or
mailing: ne 29, 15.2.
Slalt (Fory Depart. pent ure only).
个个
eed:
Ju1y  1249 1: 30 .m
Secretary of State,
M
urrice of
ACTLON
LAD FASTERN AFFAIRS
FE
Hashington.
219
INFO
DC/?
A-168, June 28, 1945.
894.628
P of State
0/FV
ITP
Rofer nce thi: Mission's despatch no. 376 of Jure 13, 1949.
OFD
trans ittins proposed cirective authorizing Japanese 94)-1950
Antarctic vialing expedition.
Chief ef stalf has directed that proposed diree'ive enelosl
376-2849
with despa ah under ruferc ace rot be issted and has  st cucsed
Headguarters latural escurces Section to take alter tive step.
to peimit apar ese Joverinent end whaling industry t. propare for
coming expedition. Chief of Staff suggested directi t effect.
that Japanese Goverment shoul: take necessary steps o place
28/6-2849
vessels of anta ctie whaling flcets in suitable cond iion for safe
and effici、nt vhaling operation; on the high peas (wirhout referrir
to Antarctic operation: in coming season). Ecorovie nd Scicnt: ie
Section objects to this procedure since it is respon oi ity of
Japanese whaling industry, not of Japanese Governnent, to prepne
ships for vhaling operations und since large sum estirnat d at ap-
proximately fo r bi lion yen, hich will bo required to inance
the expedition, should have ore fira authorization ran tuat sug
gested by Chief of taff.
SECRET FILE
Natural Resources Section now submitting to Jhi o aff
both its original proposal as enclosod in despatch wder renarce
tolgtther with alternative proposal described above.
-71951
FILED
HUSTON
522.8
RbFinn: and :hh
JMD
SLCRET
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central fles with notation of action taken.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFARSice of the United States
Political Adviser for Japan
JuL 141949
Tokyo, July 1, 1949.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 424
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department use only).
Subject: Directive Authorizing Japanese Fishery Inspection System.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch no. 92
of February 12, 1949, forwarding a plan of the Natural Resources
Section of lieadquarters for a Japanese fishery patrol and the
comments of this Mission on that plan. In that connection there
1/
is enclosed a copy of a directive shortly to be issued to the
Japanese Government aut horizing the establishment of a fishery
894, 60.28
inspection systen substantially similar to the plan enclosed in
the despatch under reference. The enclosed directive, which it
is expected will be issued to the Japanese Government in a few
days, incorporates the suggestions made earlier by this Mission
to the effect that the word "patrol" should be avoided, that the
authority of the inspection vessels should be clearly stated,
and that the boundary of the area to be patrolled should be de-
fined.
The Note for Record which is appended to the enclosed
directive and which contains classified information, indicates
that eleven vessels are to be used by the Fisheries Agency of
the Japanese Government and, as is stated in the directive, are to
operate westward somewhat beyond the authorized area in the
Yellow andEast China Seas and southward and eastward considerably
beyond the authorized fishing area. The Note for Record also
estimates that it will require an appropriation of about 150,000,000
to finance the inspection system. It is understood that the
Economic and Scientific Section of Headquarters, after considerable
deliberation, authorized this expenditure.
Also enclosed
CONFIDENTIAL
RM/R
Ana1.
Rev.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 424,
July 1, 1949.
-2-
2/
Also enclosed is a copy of a note dated June 30, 1949,
which this Mission has sent to the Missions in Japan of each
of the countries represented on the Far Eastern Commission
stating that the Supreme Commanderwould shortly issue to the
Japanese Government the authorization contained in the first
enclosure to this despatch. As was stated in the second enclosure
to the despatch under reference, it is hoped that diplomatic
preparation of this kind will largely obviate subsequent criticism
and charges of "rearmament".
Natural Resources Section officials indicate their hope that
the inspection system will materially reduce violations of fishing
regulations and will thus largely justify action by the Supreme
Commander in the future to expand the present authorized area to
the south and to the east.
Respectfully yours,
Cloyce K. Huston
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosures:
1. Copy of directive to
Japanese Government.
2. Copy of note dated
June 30, 1949, to FEC
Missions in Japan.
522.8
RBFinn:hh
Parchment mat to Department.
Copy to American Enbassy, Seoul.
Copy to American Embassy, Manila.
Copy to American Embassy Office, Canton.
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department use only).

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 424
dated July 1, 1949, from United States
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
subject: "Directive Authorizing
Japanese Fishery Inspection System".
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
HGS/WCH/RVT/jw
AG 333 (22 Jun 48)NR
SCAPIN
MEMORANDUM FOR: THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Japanese Fishery Inspection System
1. Reference:
a. Memorandum for Japanese Government from General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, AG
800.217 (22 Jun 48)NR, SCAPIN 1033, subject, "Area Authorized
for Japanese Fishing and Whaling," 22 June 1946, and SCAPIN
1033/1, 23 December 1948.
b. Memorandum to General Headquarters, Supreme Com-
mander for the Allied Powers, from the Japanese Government,
C.L.C.0. No. 2852 (2P), subject, "Measures to Prevent Japanese
Fishing Boats from Trespassing Upon Area Outside Boundary of
Authorized Area," 11 August 1948.
2. The Japanese Government is authorized to establish a
fisheries inspection system as proposed by Memorandum referred
to in paragraph 1 b above, subject to the modifications listed
below:
a. The purpose of the inspection system authorized by
this Memorandum is to enforce the provisions of Memorandum for
the Japanese Government, SCAPIN 1033, and any subsequent amend-
ments or modifications thereof, as well as other pertinent
fisheries regulations. Inspection vessels will be responsible
for assisting in the enforcement of instructions issued by the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and of laws and regulations
of the Japanese Government in regard to Japanese fishery operations.
b. Available vessels of the type and size suitable for
conducting inspection duties will be put into immediate operation
and provisions will be made to increase the number of vessels used
if the need for such is demonstrated to be necessary to insure
effective enforcement.
c. Inspection vessels are authorized to operate within
the area bounded as follows: From a point midway between Nosappu
Misaki and Kaigara Jima at approximately 43023'14" North Latitude,
145050'30

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
424, July 1, 1949.
-2-
145050'30" East Longitude; to 430North Latitude, 146030' East
Longitude; thence to 450North Latitude, 165oEast Longitude;
thence east along the 450 parallel to the 180th meridian; thence
south along the 180th meridian to l0oNorth Latitude; thence west
along the 10oNorth parallel to 132oEast Longitude; thence to 220
North Latitude, 1260East Longitude; thence to 24oNorth Latitude,
122030' East Longitude; thence north to 34oNorth Latitude, 122030'
East Longitude; thence east to 340North Latitude, 128040' East
Longitude; thence to 400North Latitude, 1350East Longitude; thence
45030' North Latitude, 1400East Longitude; thence east to 45030'
North Latitude; 1450East Longitude rounding Soya Misaki at a
distance of three (3) miles from shore; south along the 145th meridian
to a point three (3) miles off the coast of Hokkaido; thence along a
line three (3) miles off the coast of Hokkaido rounding Shiretoko
Saki and following a mid-channel course through the Nemuro Kaikyo to
a point 43026'17" North Latitude, 145048'03" East Longitude; thence
in a south-easterly direction to the starting point midway between
Nosappu Misaki and Kaigara Jima.
d. Japanese inspection vessels shall not approach closer
than ten (lo) miles to the coast of any foreign country or its island
possessions within the area defined in the preceding paragraph.
e. The modified International E instead of the Japanese
flag shall be used to mark inspection vessels.
f. Inspection vessels will not engage in fishing operations
of any kind.
g. Inspection vessels shall obtain authorization for each
voyage from Commander, United States Naval Activities, Japan.
h. Inspection vessels will not be vested with police
powers.
3. The Japanese Government shall take immediate action to
carry out all phases of proposed plan as modified in paragraph 2,
above.
4. Direct communication between Natural Resources Section,
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, concerning matters within
the scope of this memorandum, is authorized.
5. This authorization does not establish a precedent for the
operation of inspection vessels in any other area for any subsequent
period of time; nor is it an expression of Allied policy relative to
the ultimate

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
424, July 1, 1949.
-3-
the ultimate determination of national jurisdiction, international
boundaries, or fishing rights in the area concerned or in any other
area.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
CONF IDENTIAL
NOTE FOR RECORD:
1. SCAPIN 1033, 22 Jun 46 and SCAPIN 1033/1, 23 Dec 48,
define the area in which Japanese fishing boats are authorized
to carry on fishing operations. Imperial Ordinance 3ll, 11 Jun
46, guides the Japanese in enforcing SCAPINs and prosecuting
violations.
2. Between 30 Dec 46 and 20 Oct 48 seventy-eight instances
of Japanese boats fishing outside the authorized area were reported.
Information substantiating violations was sufficient to obtain
convictions in Japanese courts in only three of these instances.
3. In a memorandum dated 8 May 48 the Chinese Mission informed
DS that it was directed by its home Government to notify the Japa-
nese Government through General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, that the Chinese Government would have to take
appropriate measures unless such violations were effectively checked.
4. In compliance with instructions of the Chief, Fisheries
Division, NR, the Japanese Government on 13 Aug 48 submitted a plan
embracing all measures considered essential to the satisfactory dis-
charge of its responsibility to enforce SCAPIN 1033. The principal
proposals of this plan are:
a. Eleven vessels owned or to be chartered by the Fisheries
Agency are to be authorized to patrol Eastern China waters and the
southern and eastern boundaries of the authorized area. All patrol
vessels would be marked with a Japanese flag painted in the middle,
on both sides of the boat, and a white line around the ship.
b. All fishing boats are to be marked with their registra-
tion numbers at a place suitable to be seen from the upper air, in
addition to the mark on the bow prescribed by the Fishing Boat Registra-
tion Regulation.
c. Fishing vessels with radio equipment, including otter
trawlers and bull trawlers of over 50 gross tons and tuna boats over
75 gross tons, shall report their position every noon to the Fisheries
Agency. All boats of these types and sizes which do not have such
radio equipment must be so equipped within six months from the day
CONFIDENTIAL
approval

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No,
424, July 1, 1949.
-4-
approval is given the plan by SCAP. Any such vessel not so equipped
within six months will be restricted to operate in an area small
enough to reduce the possibility of violations. Preliminary con-
ferences on this subject between the Fisheries Agency and the Mini-
stry of Communications indicate that a satisfactory schedule of
time and radio frequencies can be arranged for this purpose.
d. Penalties for violation of SCAPIN 1033 will include:
(1) Confiscation of the catch or of an amount of money
equivalent to the price, will be imposed on the
operator. The estimated value of the catch is,
otter trawler ¥2,500,000, bull trawler ¥2,000,000,
tuna boat ¥1,000,000 to ¥2,300,000 depending on
size of boat.
(2)
Confiscation of fishing facilities (gear). The
current value of fishing facilities varies from
¥550,000 to ¥2,500,000 depending on type and
size of boat.
(3)
Sentencing of the captain of the boat to imprison-
ment with hard labor not to exceed 10 years, and
imposing a fine of not more than ¥75,000.
(4)
Administrative cancellation of vessel's license to
engage in fishing operations.
e. The fishing boat operators and associations undertake to:
(1)
Warn all persons suspected of violations and report
them to the Fisheries Agency.
(2)
Prepare posters for prevention of violations under
instructions of the Fisheries Agency and post them
in the pilot houses and crew spaces of all deep-sea
fishing ships and at fishing bases.
f. Permission is requested for the patrol boats to operate
in the area described. This includes a small area of water outside
of the authorized area in the Yellow and East China Seas and a con-
siderable area to the south and east of the authorized fishing area.
g. To carry out this plan will require an appropriation
of an estimated 150,000,000 to charter patrol vessels and cover the
expenses, and an allotment of about 113,000 kilograms of steel,
74,300 kilograms of copper, 36,000 kilograms of lead, 7,300 kilograms
of pig iron, and 2, 500 koku of lumber, for the manufacture and in-
stallation of 226 radio sets on 209 bull trawlers and 17 tuna boats
now without such sets.
5. The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
424, July 1, 1949.
-5
5. The Japanese inspection system as authorized in the
above SCAPIN, is required to enforce SCAPIN 1O33, SCAP has the
responsibility for authorizing the Japanese to fish in certain
areas under JCS Directive 20 A, 7 Nov 45, and for seeing that
they remain within the area which SCAP specified.
6. This SCAPIN approved by the Chief of Staff, 24 Jun 49.
R.V.T.
26-8491
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 47 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 424
dated July 1, 1949, from United
States Political Adviser for Japen,
Tokyo, subject: "Directive Authorising
Japanese Fishery Inspection System."
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COIMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Diplomatic Section
The Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, presents its compliments to
the United Kingdom Liaison Mission in Japan and has the honor
to invite attention to the fact that, in order to protect the
interests of the Allied Powers (particularly those directly
concerned with Japanese fishing) and in order to contribute to
proper regulation of Japanese fishing activities, the Supreme
Commander is about to authorize the Japanese Government to es
tablish a fisheries inspection system. Inspection vessels,
which will be without police powers and will not engage in
fishing, will be permitted to operate within the area defined
by the authorization.
Enclosed is a copy of the Supreme Comnander's contemplated
instruction shortly to be issued to the Japanese Government
containing this authorization.
Enclosure:
Copy of SCAPIN to
Japane se Government.
Tokyo, June 30, 1949.
Copies to G-2/GL
NRS
522.8
RBFinn:hh
(Same note to other FEC Missions).

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
9b
Office of the United States
U/FW - FISHERIES
Folitical Adviser for Japan
ns
Toky, July 1, 1949.
REC 'D
JUL 11
Nc. 427
ACTION
UNCLASSIF DED
U/T
INFO
FR
DCR
Subject: Japanese Fish Preduction and Distribut or.
FE ENC
ITP
OLI
COM ENC
F & W. LIFE
The Charge d Affeires ad interan has the ton r to enclose
five copies f e press release lamea on Jume 27, 1949. by
General Headquarters in regard  the prode tvion and distribu-
c
ticn of fish.
894.62
The press release. which was reparel by t.e NHatural Re-
sources Sectier, ates tt at Japen, estimated  atch fer this
year is800.000.00s ef   as s e1 with
pounds for 1950 and 7. loe   o p undo for 1951 The press
statement note that by 19o  1 expert rat lere will be
no serious shortage  at criuls s as nets twine, und rope.
with the experted result that prede.ten wih rearh the mav n
which can be obtaiced fro the pre ent area on a sustatnedd
basis. The pres release  desrrbe  ved methode for
transport ine and marketine fisneries Irode is in apan.
En:losure:
Five copies of General
Headqua rt ers press reieace
of June 27, 1912.
522.8
RBFin: bh
Parchment mat te Department.
UNCLASSIFIED
JUI 251949
FILED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/B PILES WITEN 14 DAYS, WITH A MOTATTON OF AOTSON

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 427 dated July 1, 1949, from U
"Japanese Fish Production and Distribution".
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMAND
Public Information Office
27 June 1949
Information Bulletin No. 7
OVERALL FISHERIES FRODUCTION.
SCAI's Natural Resources Section has estimated Japanese fisheries production
for 1950 at 7,011,000,000 pounds and 7,108,000,000 pounds for 1951 as compared
with 5,700,000,000 pounds in 1948 and an estimated 6,800,000,000 pounds this year.
actual production, it vas pointed out, may deviate considerably from the
estimates as the result of biological or oceanographic conditions. As in fisher-
ies in other parts of the world, the production of the Japanese fisheries, parti-
cularly some of the pelagic species, are featured by sharp fluctuations, the prin-
cipal causes of which are vriations in environmental conditions affecting spawn-
ing and survival of young a.i in oceanic conditions affecting the migrations and
availability of marketable fish.
The sardine and herring fisheries, which have been declining in recent years
are liable to such sharp fluctuations both in abundance and availability. The con-
ditions affecting the catch of these fish in particular may affect production sig-
nificantly for 1950 and 1951.
Since the surrender in 1945, shortages of materials such as nets, twine,
and rope have linited production seriously. Beginning in 1948 larger quantities
of materials were imported by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers for the
Japanese fisheries, and in 1949 it is expected that the supplies of such materials
will about meet the minimum requirements for the present SCAP-authorized fishing
area.
By 1950 and l951 it is expected that there wil1 be no serious shortage of
materials, so that production will reach the maximum which can be obtained fron the
present area on a sustained yield basis. Further increases will depend on improve-
ments in sardines and herring, butter management of other fisheries to increase
their productivity, and expansion of aquiculture.
New ice manufacturing and ice storage plants have been constructed to in-
crease the over-all daily cutput of ice by 900 tons. This gain of about 6.5 per-
cent over 194s production will reduce the deficit in ice supply to the fishing
industry from about 350,000 tons in 1948 to about 30,000 tons in 1949.
The incentive for fishermen to use more care in handling fish at sea is in-
creased by the fact that a ptrict inspection system is being .established at all
major landing ports, and a  vision of tie link system for distribution of fuel
oil is being considered. As soon as the inspection standards and procedures are
firmly established, it is planned that no distribution of fuel oil will be made
in exchange for fish of substandard quality.
Marketing conditions nave improved owing to the increase in ice production
noted above, an increase in cold storage capacity, a marked improvement in rail
transportation facilities, and increased capacities in various phases of the fish
processing. industry.
The cold storage capacity in Japen is being increased by about 1,800 tons.
More than 1, 000 tons of this capacity expansion have been completed, and the remain-
der is expected to be constructed by December 1949. During 1948, 250 refrigeration
cars of 25-ton capacity were constructed and are in operation. The construction of
300 additional 15-ton capacity cars in 1949 is in the planning stage. If this
plan is finalized it ill greatly case bottlenecks existing in rail transportation.
The system used in the United States for accelerating the movement of per-
ishable products trains has been adopted by the Japanese. Reefer, cars containing
such perishables as fish are now moved on a fast schedule with a minimum of delay
at switching points. Consequently, fish shipments are arriving at their destina-
tions in much bettur condition. Also, a system has been established whereby all
rail cars used for the transport of foodstuffs are cleaned at regular intervals.
The cars are inspected frequently to insure that the procedure established is func-
tioning.
(more)
(over)

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
Increases in capacity of fish processing facilities have been re
the construction or rehabilitation of freezing and cold storage plant
plants; and, other processing establishments such es fish meal and f
This permits the routing of a larger portion of the catch to these industr
thus relieving to same extent the gluts of fresh fish distribution channels
have occurred in the past
Lesiglation in the forn of the Food Sanitation Act has been promulgated and
is being implemented. About 2, C00 inspectors have been assigned to major fish
receiving and shipping ports and ere being trained to grade fish according to its
end use.
Fish in prime condition is designated for transport to large ∞nsuming areas
which are distant from the point of origin; fish of lower quality is allocated
for consumption in local or nearby areas; and fish unfit for human consumption
is designated as fertilizer.
When this inspection system is firmly established and functioning properly
it may be expected that price schedules will be adopted to conform to the grades
of fish. This will serve to encourage the fish market operators to handle the
fish in a proper manner and take cognizance of sanitary requirements.
Facilities for aquatic research in Japan are more numerous and extensive
than in any other country, but research on fish population for the purpose of
determining the management regulations needed to maintain high yield is far be-
hind that in many other countries, both in quantity and quality. However, reor-
ganization of the governme, 1 research work has been initiated to provide for
better coordination and at: tion to conservation problems, and several research
programs on this subject are underway.
The department of the Japanese government having responsibility for fisher-
ies matters has been roorganised and advanced from the status of a bureau to that
of an agency. This step should result in more efficient administration and re-
search, inasmuch as one result of the reorganization is the creation of a Division
of Research. This division will coordinate and supervise all research on fisher-
ies problems done by the central governaent.
Cooperative programs for research on the herring and sardine fisheries,
which have declined greatly in recent years, have been undertaken by the central
government and some of the prefectural research institutions.
-0-

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.85)
tume
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
FE
DC/R
UNITED STATES OF AMERIGA
894.628/7-549
U/FW = FISHERIES
for Japan
no action
JUL 20 1949
Tokyo, uly 5. 1949.
No. 432
AND WILDLIFE
CONFIDENTIAL
PD
See v Sa
P05
041
894
94.628/7.
e P:ses depaep
5
649
hansd s
eateneion wall be nsidered.
tbat a fermae Beadceacters press cekase arec ateee ee poec te w?
be effectee a couee vee pty eae a be ad Koee
parler  he pet   apaese Geret  was pate
but to the Naturer Resour ee Suctlen that the Kareas Ambassades ad
ralled to protest agatnst any poseitle exganacer ef the presect es ce
2/
toward Zor ee (see ensloset sapy of a memotanfum uf conrer settr dated
Jume . 1945.
FILED
22
90
In response to shis suggesrien, the Natral Rezources Sestaou dhs
prepared and tranametted to this Missien a atatement os Headquarterts
policy with respect to expansion of the Japanese fishing area, whi
indicates that the Supreme Commander will net authorize expansion until
Japanese fishermen abide by eppropriate regulations an? shew that they
can cbtain the maximum sustained yiela in the present area. A copy af
this Natural
CONFIDENTIAL
N
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
R

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.86)
Tokyere Deapatch Ne. 432
dated July 5. 1949.
-2
3
this Natural Resour es Sestion statement  June 21. 1949, in enclesed.
4
Also enclosed le a vopy of a note dated July 5. 1949. from this Mission
as the Headquarterst Diplomatis Section to the Koreen DipLomatic Mission
in Japan :ontaining the substance ef the Natral Resoursry Sestion state-
mert.
Headquar ters offclals ase, howere reltant te leue a prees
stement w t dy lt th pe  he Sue Cod
in regard ta the Japeceee fehte arse. tha selctacse ta heigtere
y the prey hat some extere sas we  aud sothwar may be
e  es s me 
me m  o      
the westere po n of the atts a te a pre that shs ateg 
   s          
Res S
ge a   dg p    he 
exeai  Thepesent er
ser and w ore thas e Su ee Fomede w t w
the apemate cepresentatares f ay maton wrose stesests woud e
ae y orcerced e an esteneien at the Fapencse fiehirg es ca A
tog ce spe Tommendes o oppesd vo mans ay extei co
   t  a d    
wl s rde a e n d   
Croce Kerea exd the Pht ipprxesn wht  eppear to feer shet the 
  e w b eded b  ad n  
        p
     f  to     
Teer to Washpgven for apprevao
Cheyse K. Husleu
Charge d?Affaires ad antes im
Enclopures
Copy of a United Press
deapatch appearing in the
Parific Stara and Stripes
fer June 18, 1949.
Cepy ef memorandum ef con
versation dated Junell.
1949.
Copy of Natural Reseurces
Section statement of
June 21, 1949.
Copy of nete dated duly .
04
1945。
Copy of article appearing
in Nippen Times fer June 22.
1949。
322.2
RBFinn 8 gmd
Parchment Mat te the Department
Copy to American Emtassy. Seeul
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.87)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 432
dated July 5, 1949, from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan.
Tokyo, on the subjest"Erpansion of
CONFIDENTIAL
Japanese Fishing Area".
Source: Pasif: Stars ard Stripes
for June 18, 1949.
(COPY)
FISHERIES STILL BOUND BY MG:AATEUR LINE
By United Prees
Generas MacArth s beedquertere kas etei   mst depees
Goverret petten foe exparstee r depe  prstwer e ses saes
grcunds it was efficlally state.
Lt. Gel. Bubert G. Sehene hef cf Saap s Narrat Resewarces
Se s he ment ad   fs  
e bee fumter with Soer's ets e 
pesest Lamate, ae "there has been ne hemge  he swestier
Re said some Japanese fishecen mpans strr  Live
up vo the tesams the Scsupatien beadgueraese hes set as prereguisrtes
 any selaxa  he "Ma   A  s 
 tt e s b     
beuds and e dusy    aes   
ane aome areas and uslce entiguated melhets.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 432
dated July 5. 1949, from the United
States Pelitical Adviser for Japan,
Tokye, on the subjest "Expansion of
CONFIDENTIAL
Japanese Fishing Area".
(COPI)
MEMORANDJM OF CONVERSATION
SUBJECT.
Prest  Kerean Ge me ass Wes Extens
 "Macarthur Dce s Japacese Fis s A
PARTICIPANTS.
Ambassadx CnG He pm. Cef.  Dplomat:
Massion  an.       
First Secretery of Mission.
Mr. Cicyce K. Hus
Amfessales Chtse cale seder t e sesr et sat at  
e a te fren  ernmet    e 
Renerel Headquarters the sa Eo r psn as regs ws spts
that Head quat tets was plannine to sh st wee bwara that , t wart K 
 se cared Macur Le w a preet e 
wht the Fapanese are allewes to teke ssh Ee said tas s Sve
muet eeect o ey suek seftene e the Macw e a e erow
:easts
o Enemicaly berese y wee bward exsess 
Jepanese frsscee aree woid te barste to the tuse p t
avai able to the Koreats.
2. P. K s  he ras e  ee
against comsonsem and should accosdemgly be s et ery presrle
ald by the Allies Oc cupatisn ss vepes.
B. Erom the poin cf view of security anl order. it was
desirable to avoid ineidents o disturbances that might arise
as a result of the penetration of the Japanese fishing vessels
intc Kor can waters. particularly As the Kereans weula suspeet
the Japanese of wltexier motives in case their fishing activities
cerried them too far westward.
Ambassaier Chung statea that there wese currently many violations
of the MacArthur Line by Japanese fishermer and that in order to step
such viclations it was highly desirable that Korean vessels be autherized
to arrest fishermen found on the western side of the MacArthir Line.
I tola Ambassader Chung that this Headquartera has no intention of
extending the Wacarthur Line westward toward Korea, a: least no such ex-
tension is being considered at the present time. I added that there
has teen some discussion of the feasibility of extendine the lice in
other directions. but that for the moment General Headquarters was con-
centrating on endeavoring to ensure Japanese cbservance of the presently
existing limits. Ambassador Chung said that this infomation would re
very re-assuring to his Government.
I pointed

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.89)
Enciosure No. 2 to
Despatch No. 432 dattd
July 5, 1949.
2
I pointed out to Ambaesador Chung that the qhestion of the ererbise
of policing authority on the high seas ty vessels f thex cat ons hat
teen the subject of exteneive considerate s en? wmorcus sonr ersatioee
in this Headquarters in the sourse s whleh t srounds bai been found
on which any other nation might clatm t st ouiside ats ewm tear
torial watere to exe sise ay policns etthaty mas ss Japeese
fishing vessele, sch authoriy resa one  t s
for she Alliet Powers, whe had issue
rese fishing area and was alcse respaasbe
plained at some length the diff. ulis and pecme w  
sreated in sase ay cony sd  t pee s 
authrrsty ta this counectien.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 432
dated July 5. 1949, from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Expansion of
CONFIDENTIAL
Japanese Fishing Area".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
CHECK SHEET
Mr. W.C. Herrington
26-6218
HGS/WCH/n
NR 432.1 (21 Jun 1949)Fi
Subjert. Fishing Areas
From: NR
T DS
Date: 21 Jun 1949
I. This note has referenee ve velephone conver saticn in which
Mr. Pinn requested a statement coacern ng StAP policy an sespeet to
expansion of fishing area.
2. In response to petitions trom the Japasese Gevesument and
other scurces, for extension of fishims acea. ScAP representatives
have sterated and reiterated the statement that no petiticn for ex-
tension wculd be considered until the Japanese Government convinces
SCAP of these two things:
a. That Japanese fishermen will respect the regulaticns and
agreements contrclling their operatirns, whether these regulations are
established by the Supreme Commander Io the Ali Led Pewers, their own
grvernment, er by international agreement.
b. That Japanese fishermen aud their government desire end are
able to prevent over-exploitation of aquatir rescurces and ts cbtain the
maximum sustained yield through adeqiate researh ana egulations.
3. Because of the interest of : ther nmatiors in Japanese ishing
activities, SCAP has adopted the policy of discussing prapesed extensions
with nations having a primary interes: in the areas under sansideration.
It can be accepted, therefcre, that no area extenaions will be made until
the above conditions have been met.
E。G。S。

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 432
dated July 5, 1949, from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan.
Tokyo, on the subject "Expansion of
CONFIDENTIAL
Japanese Fishing Area".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Diplometic Section
The Diplomatic Sestion of General Readquarters. Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, presents its cumpliments t: the Korean Dipiomatic
Mission in Japan and has the honer to refer to a sonversation between
Ambassador Chung and Mr. Hustcn of June i1, in egara to expansion of
the authorized Japanese fishing area.
The representarions made by the Ambassader were referrei te the
Natural Resources Section of Headquarters, which, in confirming the
icformation given Ambassader Chung verbaiy by M. Husion, states the
pesition of Headquarters to be that no expansion af the present area
will be favorably considered until (l) Headquarters s convenced that
Japarese fishermen will respect regulations and agreementa controlling
their operetions, whether these regu ations are established by the
Supreme Commander, the Japanese Goverxment, or by other egreement, and
(2) the Japanese Gevernment and Japanese fiahermen show that they are
willing and able to prevent over-explcitaticn of Japanese aqiatis re-
scur ces and to attain the maximum sus tained yield thrcugh approprlate
fisheries research and supervision. A petitien recently submitted to
Headquarters by the Japanese Gevernment requesting expansien of the
present area has been rejected for the reascn that the Japanese Govern-
ment has not indicated its ability te somply with the above sonlitions.
It is alse the policy of shis Headqusrters that pacposed extensions
of the present area will be discussed thrcugh diplowatic channels with
naticns having a direet interest in the areas under censideratien. As-
surante can be given, therefcre, that extensien of the present area will
nct be authorized until the abeve conditicns ave been met and until
there has been diplcmatic discussion with representatives of nations
directly concerned by any proposed expansicn.
Tokyo, July 5, 1949.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 5 to Despatch No. 432
dated July 5, 1949, from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Erpansion of
CONFIDENTIAL
Japanese Fishing Area".
Source:
Nippon Times for June 22,
1949。
FISHING INDUSTRY TO REVAMP SETUP
30 Per Cent Readjustment
Plan to Be Carried Cut
in Dragnet Operation
In view of SCAP's rejection of the recent Japanese petition re-
questing the expansion of Japan's fisheries grcunds. the Agriculture
and Forestry Ministry has decided to stsictly live up to its present
fishing limits and te positively enferce varicus measures to maintein
her natural resources.
As the first step toward achieving this pupose, the Ministry has
resclved to carry out a 30 per cent reedjustment of the dragnet and traw?
industries now operating in the western seas.
The proposed readjustment was announced by the Merine Products Board
of the Agriculture and Forestry Ministry Monday, according to Kyodo.
The Gcvernment s read jus tment plan was slated to be discussed at a
four day meeting of the Japan Deep-Sea Dragnet Fishing Industxy Society
held at Shimonoseki Monday.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
IN REPLY REFER TO:
wmc
OFA-1823
UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
D/R
FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
U/FW
9/12/49
JUL 1 5 1949
AND WILDLIFE
MEMORANDUM
To:
Dr. W. M. Chapman
Special Assistant to the Under Secretary (U/FW)
Department of State
From:
Acting Chief
Office of Foreign Activities
894.628/7-1449
Subject: Transmittal of letter to T. Chawanya (Japan)
Enclosed is a letter to Mr. T. Chawanya of
Hakodate City, Hokkaido, Japan,in response to his request
for publications relating to the fishing industry. If the
Department of State perceives no objection, please transmit
the letter to the addressee.
Two copies of the incoming and outgoing letter
are enclosed for your information.
Stilliuan Nright
139477
Stillman Wright
Attachment
894.628/7-1449
CS/H
3℃

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
IN REPLY REPER TO
UNITED STATES
02A~1824
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
WASHINGTON
July 14, 1949
T. Chsuaaya, Managing Director
Hekkai Suisan Shinbun Ltd.
4 Nateukasesho
Rakadate City, Hokkaido, Japan
Dear Sir:
This is 1n response to your letter of June 24, 1949.
requesting publications on the fishing industry.
The organisation of the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, in Tokyo, is prepared to handle all questions
relating to the fishing industry in Japan. For that remsen I
suggest that you direct your inguiry to Mr. Willimm C. Herrington,
Chief, Pisheries Division, Natural Resources Sestion, Gna, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers. In the event thet Nr. Herrington
appreves your request for publications, and foruards it to this
office, we shall be pleased to supply those available. Since we
have a large number of publications on many special phases of the
industry, it would be desirable to indicate subjects of particular
interest.
Sinceroly yours,
Stillman Wright, Aeting Chief
Office of Foreign Activities

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
COPI
Messrs. Fish and Wild Life Service
U.S. Dept.
June 24th 1949
Washington D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear Sirs;
I am dwelling and managing a newspaper named Hokkai Suisan
Shinbun Ltd., regarding marine product industry at 4 Matsukazecho,
Hakodate City, Hokkaido, Japan.
The other day when I visited the library of C.I.E. Hakodate I saw
some pamphlets or others regarding marine product industry and also
was informed by the chief librarian that you have plenty of pamphlets
and other materials of the same industry.
Although it is very difficult for me to express my intention fully
with my poor knowledge of English I am always wishing eagerly to
contribute this industry through my business and for this purpose
I hereby wish that you will be good enough to encourage me by
sending me any pamphlets or other materials which may develop our
marine product industry so much.
I am eagerly locking forward to your kind reply.
Yours faithfully,
Hokkai Suisan Shinbun Ltd.
181
T. Chawanya
ManagingDirector.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
THY POREIGN SEVIE
OF THE
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
U/FW E FISHERIES
Tokyo, July 15, 1949.
no atn
No. 461
JUL 27 1949
2iie-WFL
UNCLASSIFIED
AND WILDLIFE
REC'D
JULY 25
Subject:
Transmittal of Direstive Authorizing Japanese Fishery
ACTION
Inspection System.
UFW ENC
IMFO
FR
The Charge d'Affajres ad interin has the honor to refer to this
DCR
Mission's despatch no. 494 of July 1, 1949, concerning the Japanese
FE ENC
fishery inspection system and to encicse five copies of a directive
ITP
issued by General Headquarters to the Japanese Goverament (SCAPIN
OLI
1033/2 of June 30, 1949) authorizing the latter ic estab11sh the
COM ENC
inspection system. The directive defines the area in whish the in
FISH & W.L
(ENC)
spection vessels are to operate and prchibits approach by these
894.628/7-1549
vessels to points closer than ten miles to the ccas: cf any foreign
country. The directive also states that inspestion vessels will not
engage in fishing operations of any kind and will nct be vested with
police powers.
2/
Also enclosed are five sopies of a press release issued on July 2.
1949. by General Headquarters deseribing the ateve Sixective. The
press release states that eleven unarmed vessels equipped with radiss
will be used to maintain surveillance cver the approximately 1.000
trawlers and 1, ooo tuna vessels now operating w ths the autherized
fishing area.
att.
Enclosures:
1. Five copies of SCAPIN
1033/2 of June 30, 1949.
2。
Five copies of press
release issued on July 2,
1949, by General Head-
quarters.
S 522.8
RBFinn:gmd
Parchment Mat tc the Department
cc: American Embasay. Manila.
American Embassy, Nanking.
American Embassy, Seoul.
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DIR, FILS WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION ON ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure Nor-1 to D
dated July 15, 1949,fr
of the Quited States Politica
for Japan, Tokyo.
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AF∩. 500
AG 333(22 Jun 46)NR
30 June 1949
SCAPIN 1033/2
EORANDU. FOR: THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJICT:
Japanese Fishery Inspection System
1. Reference:
a. Memorandum for Japanese Government from
General Headguarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, AG 300.217 (22 Jun 46)NR, SCAPIN 1033, subject,
"hrea Authorized for Japanese Fishing and Whaling,"
22 June 1946, and SCAPIN 1033/1, 23 December 1948.
b. memorandum to General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, from the Japanese
Government, C.L.C.0. No 2852 (2P), subject, "Measures
to Prevent'Japanese Fishing Boats from Trespassing Upon
Area Outside Boundary of Authorized Area," il August
1948.
2. The Japanese Government is authorized to es-
tablish a fisheries inspection systen as proposed by
Memorandum referred to in paragraph 1 b above, subject
to the modifications listed belov:
a. The purpose of the inspection system
authorized by this memorandum is to enforce the pro-
visions of emorandum for the Japanese Government,
SCAPIN 1O33, and any subsequent amendments or modi-
fications thereof, as woll as other pertinent fisheries
regulations. Inspection vessels will be responsible
for assisting in the enforcement of instructions issued
by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and of
laws and regulations of the Japanese Government in
regard to Japanese Fishery operations.
b. Available vessels of the type and size
suitable for conducting inspection duties will be put
into immediate operation and provisions will be made
to increase the number of vessels used if the need for
such is demonstrated to be necessary to insure effective
enforcement.
c. Inspection vessels are authorized to oper-
ate within the area bounded as follows: From a point

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
AG 333(22 Jun 46).NR
SCAPIN 1033/2•
midway between Nosappu wisaki and Kaigara Jima at approxi-
mately 43 23'14" North Latitude, 145050'30" East Longin
tude; to 43oNorth Latitude, 14630' East Longitude;
thence to 45oNorth Latitude, 1650East Longitude; thence
east along the 450parallel to the 13oth meridian; thence
south along the 180th meridian to 100North Latitude;
thence west along the l00North parallel to 132 East
Longitude; thence to 22 North Latitude, 126oEast Longi-
tude; thence to 240 North Latitude, 122030' East Long1-
tude; thence north to 34 North Latitude, 122030' East
Longitude; thence east to 340North Latitude, 128040'East
Longitude; thence to 4ooNorth Latitude, 135 East Longi-
tude; thence to 45930' North Latitude, 1406 East Longi-
tude; thence east to 45030' North Latitude, 1450East
Iangitude rounding Soya isaki at a distance of three
(3) miles from shore, south along the 145th meridian to
a point three (3) miles off the coast of Hokkaido; thence
along a line three (3) miles off the coast of Hokkaido
raunding Shiretoko Saki and following a mid-channel course
through the Hemurn Kaikyo to a point 43 26'17" North
Latitude, 145 48'n3" East Longitude; thence in a south-
easterly directien to the starting point midway between
Nosappu Misaki and Kaigara Jima.
d. Japanese inspection vessels shall not
approach closer than ten (1o) miles to the ceast of any
foreign country or its island possessions within the
area defined in the preceding paragraph.
e. The modified International E instead of
the Japanese flag shall be used to mark inspection
vessels.
f. Inspection vessels will not engage in fish-
ing operations of any kind.
g.  Inspcction vessels shall obtain authoriza-
tion for each vogage from Commander, United States Naval
Activities, Japan.
h. Inspection vessels will not be vested with
police pawers.
3. The Japanese Government shall take immediate
action to carry cut all phases of proposed plan as modi-
fied in paragraph 2, above.
4. Direct communication betveen Natural Rosources
2

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
AG 333(22 Jun 46)NR
SCAPIN 1033/2
Section, General Headouarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers and the inistry of Agriculture and
Forestry, concerning matters within the scope of this
memorandum, is authorized.
5. This authorization does not establish a pre-
cedent for the operation of inspection vessels in any
other area for any subsequent period of time; nor is it
an expression of Allied policy relative to the ultimate
determination of national jurisdiction, international
boundaries, or fishing rights in the area concerned or
in any other area.
FOR THE SUPREME COANDER:
R m Xevy
R. I. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD
Ac jutant Ceneral.
3

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
of the United States Palisi
for Japan, Tokyo.
ENERAL HEADYARTERS
FAR EAST CCLMAND
Pubfic Information Office
Fress Release:
1200
2 July 1949
INSPECTION STEVICE FOR FISHING FLEET
An inspection service designed to contain the Japanese fishing fleet within
the postwar, SCAF designated boundaries has received C. approval.
Specifications for the eleven ship fleet were proposed by the Japanese
governnent as were reconnendations for penalties to be applied to crews and owners
of boats found quilty of operating in unauthorized waters.
SCAF instruction to the Japanese government outlined the area within which
the Japanese fishing fleet may operate. Although this area contains rich fishing
resources, the authorized fishing grounds are smaller than the area Japanese
fishermen usually covered in prevar days.
Unarmed, the inspection fleet is without police power and may only report
on the activities of fishermen and fishing boats. In case the original inspection
flcet proves inadequate to the task, a later increase in size was authorized in
the original draft of the plan.
At present, approximately ons thousand trawlers fish the shallow waters
between Japan and the coast of the Asia mainland and an equal number of tuna
fishing ships work the sui ce of the deep water of the Facific west of the 165th
merridian. Radio as well  visual cbservation will be used to maintain sur-
veillance over this fleet. Each of the eleven inspection craft will be equipped
with radio and according to the provisions of the inspection progran, each fishing
craft operating offshore must also be squipped vith radio within six months
after the inspection system received SCAF approval. Minimum size of boats to
be allowed to operate offshorc has been set at 60 gross tons for trawlers and
75 gross tons for tuna fishing boats.
By means of triangulation using radio compass, two inspection ships can
establish the location of a single fishing boat. Single inspection craft oper-
ating near the border of the fishing grounds can also detemaine from the direc-
tion of the calls received whether  not the sender is outside the authorized
fishing area. Fishing ships will be required to report thcir positions each day.
Each inspection craft will fly the modified international E flag and each
will be marked so tihat it can be easily identified from the air. Inspection
ships may not approach closer than 10 miles to the coast of any foreign nation
which borders the fishing grounds and no inspection craft will be allowed to
participate in fishing operations.
The program proposed by the Japanese government approved by SCAP provides
the following maximum penalties as punishment for those who are found quilty of
infractions of the regulations.
The penalties will include:
Confiscation of fish catch or a fine equivalent to the cash value of the
catch; confiscation of fishing gear including nets, etc., but excluding the fish-
ing ship; imprisonment of no fishing ship caj.tain for not more than 10 years or
fine of not more than 75,000 yen, and administrative cancellation of the fishing.
vessel's right to fish.
-0-
PHARMACEU M1C L XFYRS ARRIVE
Five members of the Anerican Pharmaceutical Association who will review pro-
gress in pharmaceutical affairs. in Japan for SCAF's Fublic Health and Welfare
Section, arrived here by air.last night.
They are Dr. Glenn L. Jenkins, president of the American Pharriccutical
Association and Dean of the College of Pharmacy, Purdue University, LaFayette,
(more)

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
Ind.; Dr. Hugh C. Muldoon, Dean of the College of Pharmacy Duqueane
Pittsburgh; Dr. Troy Dahiels, Dean of College of Pharmacy, University
ornia at Berkeley; Don Francke, chief pharmacist, University of Michig
at Ann Arbor; and F. Royce Franzoni, vice president of of the National
Board of Pharmaoy of Washington, D.C.
During their 30 day visit members of the Mission will confer with goyern
mental officials, education, professional and industrial leaders in pharmacy,
as well as visit various types of establishments concerned with these activities.
Later they will' tour Japan for 10 days, visiting Hiroshima, Fukuoka, Osaka,
Kyoto and Gifu.
-0-
EDUCATORS JOIN CIE
Two American educators, who worked with Japanese educators here last winter,
have returned to serve with SCAP's Civil Information and Education Section.
Dr. Luther W. Stalnak, Des Moines, on leave from Drake University where he
is Dean of the Cellege of  beral Arts nd Frofessor of Philosophy, has joined
the staff of the Civil Information and Education Section as advisor on social
sciences and huanities. He also is assisting Japanese government agencies con-
cerned with the simplification of the Japanese language. Dr. Stalnaker was a
member of the five-man U.S. Cultural Science Mission that last winter worked with
Japanese educators in the humanities and social sciences.
Miss Pdna Ambrose, Sringvale, Me., who was one of the U.S. specialists on.
the staff of the Institute for Educational Leadership held in Tokyo last winter,
has been assigned to the Elementary Education unit of CIE. Miss Ambrose taught
at the University of Main and Harvard's School of Education during sunmer ses-
sions.
-0-
AUG11949

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
JUL 20 1008
UNCLASSIFIED
no. 64
894.628/7-2049
To the
O ficer in Charge of the American Mission,
Oslo.
The Secretary of State transmits herewith two
reports concerning the 1948-49 Japanese Antaretie
whaling expedition.
Should no objection be perceived therete it
would be appreciated if the Embassy would transmit
these to the International Bureau of Whaling
Statistics, Sandefjord, Norway.
Enclosures:
1. Report on operations of
Nisshin Maru No. 1.
CS/H
2.
Report on operations of
CR
Hashidate Maru.
JU 1946
1.27
NA
NOX
U/FW:ECastloman:mdh
7/12/49 4l
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.97)
In reply refer to
AUG 25194°
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 76
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Oslo.
The Secretary of State transmits herewith a
report received from the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers concerning Japanese whaling operations
in the waters adjacent to the Bonin Islands during
the 1949 season.
Should no objection be perceived thereto it
would be appreciated if the Embassy would transmit
the enclosed report to the International Bureau of
Whaling Statistics, Sandefjord, Norway.
Enclosure:
Report on Japanese
whaling operations during
1949 season.
inal
CS/H
CR C
AUG 24 1949P.M.
U/FW:ECastleman:mh
NOE
8/24/49
UNCLASSIFIED
cleared ley phone
with e.Ragin

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
THE NEW YORK TIMES, TNURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 1950.
U.S. WILL RE-ENTERTHE WEATHER TH
otes
WHALING INDUSTRY
f Line by
-nx'
dustry
CompanyInvesting$8,000,000
19
-0
in Ships and Equipment
1023
202
of the National
for Antarctic Season
IO, said yester-
his supporters
Whaling under the United States
leaflets in front
flag, which virtually has been non-
ters at 346 West
today protesting
existent as an important industrial
union officials as
factor for the last decade, now is
having its second comeback since
the turn of the century and an ex-
 said that the
pedition will be ready when the
issued as a "test
Antarctic hunting season opens this
he chief inspector
fall, it was reported yesterday.
partment and the
Clifford N. Carver, a director of
Liberties Union
the Olympic Whaling Company,
'a of the distribu-
Inc., said the company already had
30.21
30.03
:e last few months
completed most of the steps pre-
COLD FRONT
pass out the lit-
liminary to the actual whaling op-
WARM FRONT
en marked by fist
rioting.
eration. The company probably
will be the sole United States-flag
PARTLY
STATIONARY PBONT
JOCCLUDED FRONT
CLOUDY
ord for Haifa
whaler among the several nations
CLEAR
RAIN
CLOUDY
SNOW
①roo
participating in the hunt.
REPORT MISSING
main port of the
Between eight and nine million
ARROWS FLY WITH THE WIND
handled a record
dollars will be required for the
WEST WIND
tons of goods in
project, Mr. Carver explained. He
BEAUFORT SCALE
ording to informa-
said it involved the purchase and
here by the Jewish
reconversion of a T-2 type tanker,
which will be the mother ship, or
Figure beside Station Oircle indicate
Alestine. The agency
whaling factory, and twelve for-
temperature (Fahrenheit); a decimal 
that small vessels
mer Navy corvettes. The latter will
neath temperature indicates precipitatios
the Gulf of Aqaba,
rly constructed pier has
ted. Plans are under
, the agency added, to
x at the Israeli port
pier for the handling of
serve as the hunting boats.
16,641-deadweight ton tanker Her-
man F. Whiton, for which no new
name has yet been selected, was
started earlier this month at the
Howaldtswerke shipyard, in Kiel,
The work on the mother ship, the
during the past six hours.
a mass of warmer air, under which the
pushes like a wedge, usually advancing
and eastward.
a retreating wedge of colder air, over
Cold front: a boundary line between c
Warm front: a boundary between wa
Germany. The reconversion of the
warm air is forced as it advances, usu
pre - McCormack liner
Cruise Starts Today
smaller craft will be started at the
same yarde some time next month.
The Whiton will get a new for-
ward and eastward.
shows little or no movement.
Stationary front: an air mass boun
Ocoluded front: a line along which wi
ll leave at 5 P. M. to-
ward section that will add forty-
ial carnival cruises, the
anal Street on the first
one feet to her length, making her
565 feet long overall, and about
The Summary
vail
sout!
iced yesterday. The ves-
2,000 tons to her deadweight, it
natic
ay at Rio de Janeiro for
was said. An additional deck will
A narrow tongue of cold air ex-
s on the northbound leg
be put on and her accommodations
tending southwestward from New
here. The liner will be tied
vehida Rio Branco, the
gain street," and passen-
al at the Brazilian capital
de with the carnival cele-
yage from Buenos Aires.
increased to take care of a whaling
crew of about 325 instead of the
normal 45 of a tanker. Much of
the whale processing equipment
will be housed in the area created
beneath the new deck.
England into eastern Pennsylvania
yesterday prevented the New York
City area from experiencing the
remarkably warm weather that
was occurring over western New
LONG
INTE
WES
afte
milé
in 1
wes
H use the ship as their
Capacity of 4,000 Whales
York and Pennsylvania. The noon
NOR
day
The latest entrant into the whal-
temperature at Rochester was 71
mo
aft
HAT MAKERS,
ing field, Mr. Carver asserted, will
have a capacity of approximately
and at Pittsburgh 73. These kind
of temperatures were typical of
CON
per
da}
4,000 whales, or 25,000 tons of
those over the southeastern por-
N HIT IMPORTS
whale oil. She is expected to be
tion of the country. In contrast
ready for service about Jan. 15.
to this were temperatures in the
The corvettes, each about 830
Central and Northern Plains and
Northern Rocky Mountains, where
gross tons and 190 feet long, will
a mass of extremely cold air pre-
tinued From Page 37
have new superstructures and their
dominated. Thermometer readings
forward sections rebuilt to whal-
in North Dakota and eastern Mon-
nanufactured product. In-
in imports of hat bodies
ing requirements.
The entrance of the Olympic
tana were 25 below zero. Rain and
freezing rain occurred yesterday
Ashed fur felt hats acts to
Whaling Company into the Ant-
morning in Maine, the Western
d thus offsets the benefits
the import of raw materi-
arctic field has been the subject of
considerable interest in Norway.
Lakes and the lower Missouri Val-
ley, while snow fell from the Cen-
tral Plains
into the Northern
program.
reciprocal international
Reports from abroad said Nor-
wegian interests were strongly op-
Rockies.
A low-pressure system that de-
requesting action by the
ements were in sympathy
and recognized the need for
sized that both labor and
Commission, the applicants
concessions as a means of
posed to American whaling. Op-
position is based on the fact that
the catch is limited by interna-
tional agreement and large United
States operations would take a
deep cut in the Norwegian share.
said. was formed some months
The new company, Mr. Carver
veloped over Missouri yesterday
morning will móve into Michigan
this morning. The strong high-
pressure area over Montana will
move north of Lake Superior with
a ridge extending southward to
ng world trade. It was

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.95)
riew.
y for
ssions
4 to it
obtain
man
 th
the
ago, with Robert Berenson,
president. Mr. Carver himself an
member of a family that has been
old hand in the industry, and a
Texas. Pressure will remain high
off the East Coast and the Plateau
region.
The broad flow of air from the
identified with the whaling indus-
South will continue over the east.
Shi
Mine
try for more than a century. Mr
Berenson is now abroad handling
ern portion of the country, pro-
ducing unseasonably warm weather
AMBUR
n. 25
details of the project, but is ex-
for the fourth straight day. The
s were t
0-ton
iters)-
Delftd
ng th
haver
tug
lin
fort has been made by his company
pected back in this country in the
next few days.
to go into whaling on an amicable
Mr. Carver said that every ef-
cold air will advance into the
Southern Plains and the lower
Ohio Valley bringing a return to
normal temperatures there. Rain
s expected to oaccur in a band
"heavy
engin
basis with the interests opposing
rom western New York through
ner stri
: large 
 th
aused
the move. He said Olympic still
was attempting to work out an ar-
 forecast to fall over a large area
the Ohio Valley to Texas. Snow
r estua
. On
rangement satisfactory to the Nor-
wegians, even to the extent of per-
through the Plains and Rocky
rom the Western Great Lakes
per of
verely
mitting them extensive financial
Mountain area to the Northern
ed.
participation in the concern
Cascades. Fair weather will pre-
SHIPPING
Arrived Yesterday
Ship
From
Date
'ARY..
Jan. 20 NORINDIES
.Boston
Jan. 24
JOHN
.Jan. 13 AMER. FORWARDER..Boston
.Jan. 14 CHOLOMA
Boston
Jan. 24
Jan. 24
ALL HOURS GIVEN IN EASTE
ULA
IBAVE
{IEN.
SE
B0MB
.Jan.
.Jan.
.Jan.
.Jan. 24
21
21
H. LUCKENBACH
STANVAC S'GAPORE..Returning
MORMACELM
MACOA
EXTON
SANTA TERESA
CHOCTAW
DYNAFUEL
.Narvik
.Salonika
Philadelphia
Carupano
P'to de la Cruz.
Baltimore
Coastwise
Jan. 24
Jan. 24
13 (malis close 6 A. M.): salls 5 P. M. | MOU
from Canal St. Letter mal. printed matter
and parcel post for Antigua, Argentina. Bar-
French Guiana, Montserrat, Paraguay. Nevis.
Brazil. Surinam. Trinidad. Uruguay and Clu-
dad Bolivar in Venezuela.
bados.
St. Kitts.
Dominica,
St. Lucia,
Crenada,
St. Vincent. South
British
SANT
matt
7
Rice
toba
from
Guaj
ORN
.Jan. 24
SAILING TOMOBROW
sailg
adi
(aIn
ut
re
N.
senger and Mail Ships
ported by Wireless)
Today
AMERICAN CLIPPER (United
outh Feb. 5 and Cherbourg Feb. 6 (mails
close 1 P. M.): sails from W. 20th St.
Printed matter for Albania. Algeria. Austria,
lands. Cyprus. France, Gibraltar, Great Brit-
Bulgaria.
Canary Islands. Cape Verde Is-
Transatlantic
States). Plym-
SANT
Indé
zuel
vald
LM
lam
Arul
Pam
.Bremerhaven. Jan. 16....1 P. M.......W. 21st St.
From
Will Dock
ain. Hungary. Iccland. Ireland. Madagascar.
Northern Ireland. Portugal. Rumania. Spain.
Switzerland. Tunisia. Turkey and Yugoslavia.
Feb.
Call
Feb.
Tomorrow
ain. Iceland, Northern Ireland and Switzer-
Parccl post for Austria, France. Great Brit-
Feb.
fron
qq{
Bermuda. Jan. 25
Bremerhaven. Jan. 17...8 A. M
°9 A. M.
W. 55th St.
11. S. I.
AMERICAN SCOUT (United States). Liverpool
land.
Feb. 5 (mails close 10 A. M.): sails from
mat
Cau
Bos
ine
.u.
turday, Jan. 28
Antwerp. Jan. 16......... *4 P. M.5th St.. Hoboken
CHOCTAW (Waterman).
W. 34th St. Letter mall. printed matter and
parcel post for Liverpool and Scotland in
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Bremen Feb. 6 and
cept
Nar
Chil
Cole
Br
unday, Jan. 29
Hamburg Feb. 8 (mails close 1 P. M.): sails
from 42d St.. Brooklyn.
Letter mail. printed
SANT
1.1
fof
ind
Jer
onday, Jan. 30
No Arrivals
.Rotterdam. Jan. 20.
Liverpool. Jan. 22
San Juan. Jan. 26.
Pacific St.. Bklyn.
5th St..
W. 14th St.
Hoboken
EXANTHIA (Amerlcan
matter and parcel post for Czechoslovakia
and Germany.
ter mail and printed
Trieste Feb. 14 and
close 6 A. M.): sails
and Trieste
Parcel post for Albania. Hun-
matter for Italy. Malta
Export). Genoa Feb. 7.
from W. 44th St. Let-
Rijeka Feb. 16 (mails
w.
for
(ma
Val
Cal
pos
Val
Wednesday, Feb. 1
uesday, Jan. 31
.Puerto Barrios. Jan. 25.
.Copenhagen. Jan. 20
Valparaiso. Jan. 11.
Barranquilla. Jan. 26.
Southampton. Jan. 25
8th St.. Hoboken
W. 16th St.
W. 10th St.
W. 21st St.
.Rector St.
EXTON (American Export). Lisbon Feb. 3.
gary. Italy. Trieste and Yugoslavia.
Tunis Feb. 5. Piraeus Feb. 8. Istanbul Feb.
10. Burgas Feb. 11 and Constanza Feb. 12
Pcrtuguese Guinea. Rumania. Tunisia and
(mails close 6 A. M. today): sails from Ex-
change Place. Jersey
Greece and Portugal.
Verde Islands.
Bulgaria. Greece.
City. Letter mall and
Cape Verde Islands,
Parcel post for Cape
Portugal.
SAN'
Cal
zue
clo
Gu
Let
ger
(ex
an
pot
at
ion
pad
080
:00:
Departed Yesterday
Cristobal. Jan. 27
Bremerhaven. Jan
Cartagena. Jan. 28
Bremerhaven. Jan. 22
W. 16th St.
W. 24th St.
Unassigned
Unassigned
NOONDAY(Waterman)
TEMERAIRE
mail and printed matter for Greece. Italy.
Piraeus Feb. 11 (mails close 1 P.
day). salis from 42d St., Brooklyn.
Malta and Trieste.
and Italy.
Turkey.
(Barber). Matadi Feb. 15 (mails
Parcel post for Greece
Genoa Feb.
M. to-
Letter
VER
an
Cu
A.
We
pO!
tion
FL
gut
-xo
.Jan. 25 YAQUE
Jan. 30 NATHANIEL. PALMER
Feb. 24
Jan. 25
Jan. 25 JULESBURG
Date
R. MARRON
AMERICAN
Ship
PRESS
.Philadelphia
San Pedro.
Texas City
Baltimore
Coastwise
Fort Pierce
Due
Jan. 25
Jan. 26
Date
WASHINGTON (United States). Cobh Feb. 2.
close 6 A.
Brooklyn.
Havre Feb. 3. Southampton Feb. 3 and Ham-
burg Feb. 5 (malls close 5 A. M.): sails
printed matter for Albania. Algeria. Austria.
Bulgaria. Canary Islands. Cape Verde Is-
gian Congo.
for Boma.
Leopoldville and Matadi in Bel-
Letter mail and printed matter
M.): salls from Williams St..
Parcel post for Belgian Congo.
Letter mall and
BRI
QUE
ALC
St.
Iu
(n
Hc
Itt
nce
JO
Jres
-mo
nal
inary printed matter. parcel post and registered mail
are those for General Postoffice and the Church Street
and three hours earlier on Sundays and holidays. Mails
our later and a' Grand Central Station one hour earlier
senger and Mail Ships
Byn General Postoffice one hour earlier Mondays to Fri-
ALCOA PENNANT (Alcoa). Hamilton Jan. 30.
lands. Cyprus. France, Gibraltar. Great Brit-
ain (except Liverpool and Scotland). Hun-
gary. Iceland. Ireland. Madagascar. Portugal.
Rumania, Spain. Switzerland. Tunisia, Turkey
and Yugoslavia.
Charlotte Amalie Feb. 3. St. Kitts Feb. 4.
Antigua Feb. 5. Pointe a Pitre Feb. 6. Do-
(Berlin. Hamburg and U.S.S.R. zone only)
and Ircland.
South America, West Indies. Etc.
Parcel post for Germany
ROI
16
an
A.
Le
M
mi
an
28
Al
Ca
BI
nto
th
po
tes after names of ports indicate scheduled date of
tary mail at either the Postoffice or steamship plers
closing time (Brooklyn General Postoffice four hours
minica Feb. 7. Fort de France Feb. 8 and
from Columbia St.. Brooklyn. Letter mail.
Trinidad Feb. 9 (mails close 4 A. M.): sails
printed matter and parcel post for Antigua.
Barbados. Bermuda. Dominica. Grenada. Brit-
1y:
pc
te
A1
5
oat
South America. West Indies. Etc.
Ish and French Guiana,
tinique. Montserrat. Nevis.
Guadeloupe. Mar-
(E)
nd Feb.
d). Ant-
s). Ant-
post for
March 1
Nether-
st. Let-
3. Aden
londay:
A. M.);
(mails
St.
(mails)
Brook-
parcel
Bergen
(mails
ATLANTIDA (Standard Frult). Port-au-Prince
ITALIA (Home Lines), crulse (no mails): sails
JUNIOR (United Fruit).
KATHRYN (Bull). San Juan Jan. 30 and Tru-
URUGUAY (Moore-McCormack). Trinidad Jan.
Jan. 31 and Kingston Feb. 5 (mails close 8
printed matter and parcel post for Haiti.
Also letter mail for Cayman Island and
A. M.): sails from Murray St. Letter mail.
Jamaica.
St. Letter mail. printed
11 P. M. from W. 14th St.
Jillo City Feb 1 (mails close 5 A. M.): sails
Republic. Puerto Rico. St. Croix and St.
Thomas.
(mails close 4 A. M.):
post for Canal Zone. west coast of Nicaragua
and Panama.
printed matter and parcel post for Dominican
from Pacific St..
Brooklyn.
Cristobal Jan. 31
matter and parcel
sails from Rector
Letter mail.
MORMACSAGA(Moore-McCormack).
CAPE ANN (United Fruit). Port Limon Feb.
CELESTIAL (Sprague).
dad Bolivar in Venezuela and St. Thomas in
Lucia, St. Vincent, Surinam, Trinidad. Ciu-
6 (mails close 9 A. M.); salls from Morris
the Virgin Islanis.
St. Letter mall, printed matter and parcel
10. Santos Feb. 12. Montevideo Feo. 16 and
post for Costa Rica.
Buenos Aires Feb 18 (malls close 6 A. M.):
sails from Court St., Brooklyn. Letter mail
and printed matter for Argentina. Paraguay.
cel post for Argentina. Paraguay. South Bra-
zil (except Bahia and Pernambuco) and Uru-
21 (malla close 8 A. M.): sailz from Canal
South Brazil (except Bahia. Natal. Parahyba.
Pernambuco and Sergipe) and Uruguay. Par-
Feb. 10. Rlo de Janelro Feb. 13. Santos Feb.
15. Montevideo Feb. 19 and Buenos Aires Feb.
xuay.
Letter mail. printed matter and
Rio de Janeiro Feb.
parcel
Bahla
QU
Ger
Ger
Pv1
Ji
A
te
tc
ail and
31. Rio de Janelro Feb. 8. Santos Feb. 9.
Montevideo Feb. 12 and Buenos Aires Feb.
post
and
for Argentina. Paraguay. South
Uruguay.
Cri

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIKGN SENVIGE
DIVIBION OF
OF THE
ORTHEAST ABIAN AFFAIRSINNTED STATIS OF AMERICA
AUG - 5 1949
United States Political viser
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
for Japan
U/FW - FISHERIES
oleyo. July 27, 1949.
No. 499
AUG 4-1949
* rm. Jiany-NA.
AND WILDLIFE 8/5/49
RESTRICTED
REC'D
AIUC 2
ACTION
U/FW-2encs
Subject: Directive Authoriz  Japatese l49-l Antere
Whaling Expediticn.
INFO
FR
DCR
FE-en
OLI
The Acting Political Advise. sncr
EUR
copies of a directive issued by Gerra! adqua:
S
ITP
Commander for the Allied Powers, t: the Japanese u vernmen:
Smithaonian-
(SCAPIN 6693- of July 7. 1949) auth: 1z1ng Japanese wal1.
enc
expeditions in the Antarctic fer 1949-1950 seeson. Japarese
ISH & W.-enc
whaling operations in the Antarctic will t conduc  a asis
substantially similar to that of the past seasor tc flerts
are authorized and provisions for cotr: :f the pe:t:
laid down. The enclosed directive alce structs  Japa
Government to make a survey of earh esst? in the p dit: v.
will carry liquid cargo in order t rsie the a or st
deficiencies.
J
The onclosed dieotive bas been  ed as a "s aFiN A"
istrative instructior. In this way. its a:st: ibu'.
more limited than that f ordinary Headquerters di: ertives.
894.628/7-2749
ple, the missione in Japan represtin:e:n er t
receive copies of administrative StApIN:. Tead.
are now considering means wliereby noti  he
be given to interested nations.
qwm
Enclosure:
Five cop1es of SCAPIN 6693-A
dated July 7, 1949.
S 522.8
RBFinn 1 gnd
cc: American Embassy, Loudon.
American Dmbassy, Oslo.
American Dmbassy, Canberra.
American Dmbassy, Wellington.
Parohment Mat to the Department.
MAR 6 1951
TL
RESTRICTID
H
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITE A NOTATION OF AOTION TA

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
D-499Tokyo
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SÚ RE E COMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
ArO 500
AG 800.217 ( 7 Jul 49)NR/Fi
7 July 1949
SCA.II 6693-A
MEHORANDUI: FOR: JAPTIESE GOVERNMENT
SUSJECT:
Japanese Whaling Operations in the Antarctic in
the 1949-1950 Season.
1. Reference is maae to:
a. Kemorandut for the Japanese Government from General
Heauquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, AG 800.217
(23 Nov 48)NR/Fi SCA.IN 1942, 23 November 1948, Subject, "Whaling
Industry."
b. Lenorandun! from the Japanese Government to General
Leadquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied rowers, MAF No.
76'49, dated 13 May 1949.
2. Japanese whaling operations in the ntarctic are hereby
authorized for the 1949-1950 season. Such operations wil1 be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of reference memo-
randum, l a, above.
3. Within thirty days of the receipt of this memorandum
the Ja anese Government will submit to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied rowers for approval a plan for the organization
and operation of an Antarctic whaling expedition consisting-of.
two flcets. The plan vill include a list of the names and gross
tonnages of the factory ships, catchers, and auxiliaries to be
used and the nanes of the personnel who will manage each fleet:
Subseguent to the approval of the plan or modification thereof,
any substitution of vessels or personnel for those named must
be approved by the Supreme Commander for the llied rowers.
4. Vessels participating in the whaling expedition will
comply with the following:
a. Each vessel vill be marked and operated in con-
formity with cirectives from the Administrator, Naval Shipping
Control Authority.
b. The master of each of the participating factory
shirs will maintain a duplicate of the ship's log which will be
available for inspection at all times and upon completion of the
expedition will be submitted, properly certified, to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
AG S00.217 ( 7 Ju1 49)NR/Ei
SC.IN 6693-A
c. During the voyage to an from the whalins area
no vessel will approach land nearer than 12 miles. The route to
be followed by each vessel will be supulied to the Supreme Com-
funder for the Allied rowers and the Commander, Naval Forces, Far
East, by the Japanese Governrent 15 days prior to the departure
of each vessel from Japan and fron the whaling area.
d. The naster of each of the participating factory
ships durin the periods enroute to and from the whaling area
will Torward daily radiograms to the Fisheries ency in Tokyo
listing the position of his ship at l200 hours local time on
the dute the radiogram is dispatched.
e. The mastcer of each of the participatins factory ships.
during the whaling operations will forward a daily radiogram to
the Fisheries Agency in Tokyo containing the followine information:
(1) fosition of his ship at 1200 hours local time
on the date the radiogram is dispatched.
(2)
Number and kind of whales processed during the
previous 24 hour period ending at 2400 hours
local time, output of whale oil and ot her
prouucts, and raw material wei hts of meat,
blubber and other materials processed as food
stuffs.
f. The senior Japanose Governnent Inspector aboard
each of the two participatin factory ships will personally
verify all information Torvardcd to tho Fisheries agency in
Tokyo by radiosram as recuired in parayraphs d and e above.
e. The master of each of the two factory ships will,
upon conclusion of wi alin operations, dispatch a radiogram to
the Fisheries Agency in Tokyo stating the date of departure
of his ship from the whaling area.
5. Applications for freguencies for radio communications
by the whalin fleets vill be made to Civil Cormunications Section,
Goneral Headouarters, Suprene Comander for the Allied Fowers.
6. The Fisheries  ency will maintain at its office in
Tokyo a file of all communications between the whaling fleets
and Japan for reference by the Supreme commander for the Allied
rovers when desired.
7. Thirty days prior to the departure of the first units
of the expedition the Japanese Governaont will notify the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Fovers of the allocation of potroleum
2

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
AG 800,217 ( 7 Ju1 49)NR/Fi
SCArIN 6693-A
products to the participating companies.  The Japanese Govern.
ment will &lso verify the amount of petroleum products aboard
each vessel immediately prior to its departure from Japan and
upon its arrival in Japan from the whaling area. Within ten
days of the departure and arrival the Japanese Government will
notify the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers of the exact
amounts of petroleum products aboard each vessel.
8. The Japanese Government will conduct a complete survey
or cach vessel destined to carry liguid cargo to insure the
absence of any structural deficiencies prior to its departure
from Japan. Each of such vessels to which modifications or
repairs have been made will be surveyed upon completion of those
modifications or repairs. Each of such vessels which have been
used for purposes other thun whaling since the ond of the 1948-49
Antarctic whaling expedition will be surveyed within thirty days
prior to its departure from Japan. The cargo space of all vessels
surveyed vill be empty at the time of survey. A report of the
survey will be submitted to General Headguarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied rowers ton days prior to the departure of each sur-
veyed vessel from Japan.
9. The Japanese Government will verify the cargo of each
vessel arriving in Japan from the whaling area, and within ten
ays of tho discharging of cargo will notify the Supreme Com-
maner for the Allied Fowers of the exact cargo of cach vessel
und the condition of the cargo.
10. The attention of the Japanese Governmont is directed
to the memorandum reforrea to in paragraph 1 a above. Reports
reguired by tho referenced memorandun will be submitted to the
Supreme Commander for the Allicd Fowers prior to 1 June 1950.
11. This authorization does not establish precedent for
whaling operations in any area for any subseguent period of
time; nor is it an exprossion of Allied policy relative to
ultimate determination of nutional jurisdiction, international
boundarics, or fishing or whaling operations in any aree.
FOR TIE SUPREME CONNDER:
rmnhein
R. M. LEVY
Colonel, -AGD
Adjutant General

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.95)
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1 : 1949 nTE: lOctober 14,
To : FE - Mr. Butterworth
Demartment of State
suect: Plan to Use U. S. Navy to Enforce Japanese Fishing Area
During 1943 and 1949 a total of sixty-seven seizures of
the Chinese who in many instances have retained the vessels
for operations in the civil war, and in some instances they have
resorted to sinking the vessels and killing the crews. Some
of the vessels have been seized by the Soviets, but the latter
have been more circumspect in seizing vessels only when they
vere beyond the limited area. Numerous protests have been
6
and the Department is nov in receint of a letter from the
is in the process of preparetion.
2
28/8-1349
situetion has re:ched the point where he wants instructions
issued to the Commander of the Seventh Task Fleet to render
assistance in preventing illegal seizure of Japenese fishing
vessels operating on the high seas. The atteched telegram
from the Commander of the Seventh Task Fleet deted October 13
indicates that effective Cctober 23 he will nut into opere-
tion a plan to patrol the fishing area, thct any ettempt to
violate the rights of Japanese fishing vessels by any ship
either in or out of the authorized area will be considered an
act of piracy, and th t force may be used if necessary to free
S
the Japanese fishing vessel and escort the offending vessel
ξ
back to Japan. In Despatch No. 553, August 13, USPOLAD stated
11
that while the Mission agreed with the need for effective
W
8
means to prevent such seizures, it took the position that
a naval patrol by the U.s. would incur the possibility of com-
plicated incidents and at the same time raise the question of
taking similar action against Soviet and possibly other seizures.
As far as is known, the Department has not been consulted
in connection vith the instructions which have been issued
to use the Seventh Task Fleet for this purpose. The Wavy aclin
matait the altention de Ynde Soe's g.
Attachments:
1. Telegrem dated nt le
42
October 13, 1949.
1956
CONFIDENTIAL
Nhm
FE:NA:HWNoseley:db

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
U/FW-FISHERIES
moaction rgn
AUG 26 1949
AND WILDLIFE
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
REC'D
AUG 25
No。553
Tokyo, August 13, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION
U/FW
INFO
FR
Subject: Seizures of Japanese Fishing Vessels by
DCR
Chinese Patrols.
FE
L
4.628/8-1349
OLI
EUR
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honór to refer to this Mission's
despatch no. 52 of January 25, 1949, concerning reports
of a Chinese law providing for the seizure of Japanese
m
fishing vessels outside the authorized fishing area
and enclosing a copy of a memorandum sent to the Chinese
Mission in Japan on January 24, 1949, by this Mission
in its capacity of Diplomatic Section, General Head-
quarters.
In a communication dated May 14, 1949, the Chinese
Mission explained that the measure authorizing seizure
of Japanese fishing vessels outside the authorized
fishing area was an Executive Order of the Chinese
Government issued on August 5, l948. The Chinese
Mission's communication attempted to justify this action
as being in conformity with a proposed policy decision
on fishing and aquatic industries in Japan forwarded to
the Steering Committee, Far Eastern Commission, at its
144th meeting on March 15, 1949 (SC 271 series). The
Chinese Mission's communication also claimed that China
has "traditional fishing interests" in the waters between
the western limits of the authorized fishing area and the
Chinese coast. A copy of the Chine se Mission's communi-
1/
cation of May 14 is enclosed.
On July 18 this Mission in its capacity of Diplomatic
Section, General Headquarters, sent a strong protest to
the Chinese Mission over seizures of Japanese fishing
vessels, the Chinese attempt to justify the Executive
Order
CONFIDENTIAL
DECLASSIFIED
NND780069
By.NNARS. Do1e 1OSRt179
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYE, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatoh no.
553, August 13, 1949.
-GONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Order of August 5, 1948, on the basis of a Far Eastern
Commission working paper, and the claim of the right to
seize Japanese vessels on the high seas by virtue of
"traditional fishing interests" in the area. The
Chinese Mission was requested to inform the Chinese
Government of the Supreme Commander's concern over this
matter and of his desire that seizures of Japanese vessels
cease immediately. It was also requested that all vessels
seized be released and returned to Japan with their orews,
along with detailed reports of each incident in order
that the persons responsible might be brought to trial
in Japan in case the vessels violated the Supreme Commander's
directive by proceeding beyond the limits of the authorized
2/
fishing area. A copy of this communication is enclosed.
On Ju; 27, 1949, this Mission sent another strong
3/
protest to he Chinese Mission (copy enclosed) over the
seizure of Japanese vessels by Chinese naval patrols.
These fishing vessels have reportedly been armed and are
being used with their Japanese crews by the Chinese Navy
for military purposes in the current hostilities with
the Chinese Communists.
In addition to the four Japanese vessels seized by
Chinese Naval patrols, referred to in the communication
to the Chinese Mission of June 27, the Natural Resources
Section of General Headquarters has informed this Mission
that seven other Japanese vessels have been captured by
4/
Chinese patrols. A third protest, copy of which is enclosed,
was accordingly made to the Chinese Mission on August 8,
1949。
While this Mission doubts if concrete results can
be expected in the present circumstances from the despatch
of notes of protest to the Chinese Mission on this subject,
it is believed that such action is necessary as a matter
of form and for the record. In view of the Chinese
Government's insistent claim of the right to seize Japanese
fishing craft in waters between the western limits of
the authorized fishing area and the Chinese coast, and
since the Nationalist Government in any case probably
no longer exercises effective control over local authorities
in the areas where seizures have occurred, it is doubted
if effective action by the Chinese Government to prevent
further seizur es of Japanese fishing craft by Chinese
patrols is likely unless General Headquarters is prepared
to take appropriate countermeasures. This problem, is,
however, complicated by the fact that Soviet authorities
in the Sakhalin-Kuril Island area have in a similar manner
assumed the right to seize Japanese fishing vessels
reportedly found outside the authorized fishing area
(this Mission's despatch no. 34 of January 19, 1949).
It
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
553, August 13, 1949。
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
It appears that Generel Headquarters is in a
disadvantageous position in dealing with this matter
so long as there is not an adequate patrol of the boundaries
of the authorized fishing area. The Natural Resources
Section has repeatedly warned the Japanese fishing authori-
ties of the necessity for strict compliance with the
provisions of the Supreme Commander's directive establish-
ing the fishing area (SCAPIN l033, as amended), and various
steps have been taken to deal with cases of proven
violation. While there is reason to believe that the
Japanese are being more circumspect in their observation
of the fishing regulations, there have been a number of
cases where there is little doubt that both Soviet and
Chinese authorities have seized Japanese craft within
the authorized fishin area.
The recent esta lishment of the Japanese Fisheries
Inspection Fleet for the purpose c. patrolling the
boundaries of the fishing area at critical points will
probably ameliorate this problem to some extent by
keeping Japanese vessels within the authorized area.
Japanese patrol craft, however, are unarmed and will
be in no position to deal with seizures within the fishing
area. Moreover, if patrol craft attempt to pursue
Japanese fishing vessels outside the area, as they are
authorized to do, they will also run the risk of seizure
by Soviet and Chinese patrols.
The Natural Resources Section on August 1 requested
the opinion of this Mission as to the advisability of
establishing a United States Navy Patrol in the East
China Sea for the purpose of discouraging Chinese
seizures of Japanese vessels. While agreeing with the
need for effective means to prevent such seizures, this
Mission has taken the position that a naval patroi by
the United States would inour the possibility of
complicated incidents and at the same time raise the
question of taking similar action against Soviet and
possibly other seizures As an alternative to the
proposed use of Unite States vessels to patrol the
East China Seu, this Mission has suggested that General
Headquarters reguest the Department to approach the
Chinese Govern ent directly in an effort to secure
proper recognition of 3CAP as the sole authority governing
Japanese ectivities on the high seas, the cessation of
further seizures by chinese patrols, and the release of
all vessels together with their crews now held by the
Chinese authorities Action on this question is still
under consideration in General Headguarters.
It is
Serenth taok Flag
CONFIDENTLAL
hos anked drmny to
Scop
See
Dam

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch no.
553, August 13, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
It is only too apparent that Soviet and Chinese
authorities are using alleged violations of the fishing
area and consequent seizures of Japanese craft as a
pretext for achieving other objectives. Soviet seizures
of Japanese craft are obviously serving as a device to
attempt to secure General Headquarters recognition of
Soviet territorial sovereignty in the South Sakhalin
and Kuril-Habomai areas (this Mission's despatch no. 416
of June 27, 1949). Chinese seizures are for the obvious
purpose of acquiring serviceable vessels for the use
of the Chinese Nationalist forces. Most of the fishing
vessels of the Shimonoseki fishing fleet which have been
victims of Chinese seizures are of steel construction,
diesel powered, and of 80 to l00 tons. Confiscation of
these craft, as provided by the Chinese Executive Order
of August 5, 1948, is tantamount to piracy.
Reports of Chinese seizures of Japanese fishing
vessels and reported instances of such craft being fired
upon and sunk by Chinese patrols have already appeared
in the Japanese press. The Natural Resources Section
has become particularly concerned over this matter and
was apparently responsible for information reaching the
press concerning this Mission's protest to the Chinese
Mission. A copy of an article on this subject from
5/
Nippon Times of August 1, 1949, is enclosed.
Respectfully yours,
W. J。 Sebald
1。
Letter from Chinese
Mission, May 14, 1949.
2。
Letter from Diplomatic
Section to Chinese Mission,
July 18, 1949。
3。
Letter from Diplomatic
Section to Chinese Mission,
June 27, 1949。
4。
Letter from Diplomatic
Section to Chinese Mission,
August 8, 1949。
5。
Article from Nippon Times,
August 1, 1949 concerning
seizures of Japanese fishing
vessels.
S1313
Parchment Mat to Department.
543.1
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
nolosure no. 1 to Despatch no.
553 dated August 13, 1949
from the United States Politioal:
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo on the
subject, "Seizures of Japanese
Fishing Vessels by Chinese
Patrols".
(COPY)
CHINESE MISSION IN JAPAN
TOKYO
MEMORANDUM
Tokyo, May 14, 1949.
Reference is made to the Memorandum of the
Diplomatic Section, GHQ, SCAP, dated January 24,
1949 requesting information concerning a law
published in the August 29, 1948 issue of the Chinese
newspaper Ta Kung Pao, Shanghai, which allegedly
contains measures to be taken against Japanese fishing
vessels operating on the high seas outside the SCAP-
authorized fishing areas.
The Chinese Mission has referred the above inquiry
to its home Government for instructions and is now
directed to make the following reply:
1. The so-called "law", entitled "Measures
Dealing With Japanese Fishing Vessels Operating Beyond
Authorized Areas", is, strictly speaking, not a law,
nor is it passed by the Legislative Yuan as alleged.
As a matter of fact, it is in the nature of an executive
order, issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
and approved by the Executive Yuan, which became effective
from the date of approval on August 5, 1948. Article 6
stipulates that these Measures are equally applicable to
any Japanese fishing vessel captured prior to that date.
2. According to Articles 1 and 2 the application
of these Measur es is limited to those cases of Japanese
fishing vessels found operating beyond the SCAP-authorized
areas which are to include those areas lying between
China's territorial waters and the high seas in which
China has hitherto had traditional fishing interests.
These Measures, of course, do not apply to all other
cases of violations by Japanese fishing vessels.
3. The enforcement of these Measures is necessitated
by frequent violations on the part of the Japanese fishing
vessels in unauthorized areas off China coast for more
than two years. This regrettable state of affairs has
persisted in spite of repeated protests by the Chinese
Government. With a view to insuring the prevention of
further violations and to safeguarding China's legitimate
interests, the appropriate authorities of the Chinese
Government have no other recourse than to enforce the
above mentioned Measures.
In

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
1oyu s vosyaon .
553, August 13, 1949.
-2-
In this connection attention may be invited to a
revised draft of the various proposed policies on fishing
and acquatic industries in Japan (27l series) as prepared
by the Fishing Subcommittee of the Far Eastern Commission
and approved by the majority of the members of the said
subcommittee. Paragraph 2b of the draft provides the
following condition concerning possible expansion of the
present Japanese fishing activities:
If such expansion will involve fishing or
other commercial acquatic activities in an area
in which any member country of the FEC has informed
SCAP it has a direct concern in respect thereto,
prior authorization shall be obtained by SCAP
from such country。
Since Japanese fishing vessels have been expanding
their activities in the areas off China Coast and outside
SCAP-approved limits without China's prior consent,
such activities are clearly unauthorized and consequently
detrimental to China's legitimate interests.
The above quoted draft also contains the following
provisions:
The Far Eastern Commission recommends to
its member governments that in order to assist
in the enforcement of this policy they should
notify SCAP of violations discovered by s uch
member governments, without prejudice to any
action which they deem fit to take.
The Chinese Government holds that the Measures
preventing violations by Japanese fishing vessels are
entirely in conformity with the letter and spirit of
the above mentioned revised draft of the Far Eastern
Commission.
To the
Diplomatic Section, General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander For the Allied Powers,
Tokyo。.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to Despatoh
no. 553 August 13, 1949
from the United States Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject, "Seizures of
Japanese Fishing Vessels by Chinese
Patrols"。
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
Diplomatic Section
The Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, presents its
compliments to the Chinese Mission in Japan and has
the honor to refer to the Mission's memorandum of
May 14, 1949, as well as to the Diplomatic Section's
communication of January 24, 1949, concerning the
issuance of an Executive Order by the Chinese Govern-
ment authorizing the seizure of Japanese fishing
vessels operating outside the fishing area established
by the Supreme Commander, and seizures by Chinese
authorities of Japanese fishing vessels reportedly
found out side the fishing area on the high seas.
In its communication of May l4, the Mission
has invited he Diplomatic Section's attention to
a revised draft of a proposed policy decision on
fishing and acquatic industries in Japan, forwarded
to the Steering Committee, Far Eastern Commission,
by Committee No. 2: Economic and Financial Affairs,
at its 144th meeting on March 15, 1949, (SC 271 series)
as evidence to justify the action taken by the Chinese
Government in issuing the Executive Order and seizing
Japanese fishing vessels.
With respect to the policy proposal cited by the
Mission in its memorandum of May 14, it must be noted
that this document is merely a working paper which has
not as yet been adopted by the Far Eastern Commission
as a statement of the Commission's policy on these
matters. Moreover, it should be noted that in a recent
revision of this proposed policy decision, paragraph 6
thereof, quoted in full in the Mission's communication,
has been deleted in its entirety from the draft.
It can not be considered that the Mission has any
valid justification for using this draft policy decision,
still unapproved by the Far Eastern Commission either
in fact or in principle, as evidence to demonstrate
that the Chinese Government's action in issuing the
Executive Order and in seizing Japanese fishing craft
is justified by or in conformity with the policies of
the Far Eastern Commission. It must also be pointed
out that the Executive Order directing the seizure of
Japanese fishing vessels was issued, according to the
Mission's communication, on August 5, 1948, whereas the
Far

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to Tokyo'
Despatch no. 553, August 13,
1949。
-2-
Far Eastern Commission's proposed policy paper was not
circulated for consideration within the subcommittee
until January 10, 1949. This action of the Chinese
Government in issuing the Executive Order of August 5,
l948, could not, therefore, have been taken with reference
to the proposed policy paper, and must be regarded as
a unilateral action on the part of the Chinese Government
for which there is no justification.
It should further be noted that, although the proposed
policy paper was forwarded by the committee concerned
to the Steering Committee of the Far Eastern Commission,
the United States has maintained a general reservation
relative to the entire paper, and the Union of Socialist
Soviet Republics has maintained a general reservation
with particular reference to paragraph 2, b, a part of
which is also quoted in the Mission's communication.
It should be apparent, therefore, that this proposed
policy paper is entirely irrelevant. Unless this paper
is approved by the Far Eastern Commission as a whole and
a pertinent directive is received by the Supreme Commander,
it does not determine the Supreme Commander's position or
policy vis-a-vis the enforcement of his directive
authorizing Japanese fishing and whaling operations on
the high seas.
In the Diplomatic Section's communication to the
Mission of June 22, 1948, it was specifically stated that
"In as much as fishing activities of Japanese on
high seas are governed by directives issued by the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and which are
subject to enforcement by the Supreme Commander only,
the competent authorities are desirous that information
be supplied as far as practicable in the form prescribed,
in order that adequate prosecution can afford appropriate
protection to the legitimate interests involved."
In the Diplomatic Section's communication to the Mission
on January 24, 1949, it was again stated that "Japanese
fishing activities on the high seas are governed entirely
by directives issued by the Supreme Commander which are
accordingly subject to enforcement by the Supreme Com-
mander only." In this communication the Mission was also
reminded of the desire of t he Supreme Commander that,
in the e vent of violations by Japanese of the Supreme
Commander's directive governing fishing on the high
seas, the Mission report such cases to the Supreme Com-
mander with information of sufficient probative value
that the offenders can be effectively prosecuted.
The Far Eastern Commission has, so far as is known,
made no policy decision which has resulted in altering
in any manner the above policy.
The

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch no. 553,
August 13, 1949.
-3-
The unilateral action of the Chinese Government
in seizing Japanese fishing vessels on the high seas
has been taken by the Chinese Government without the
consent, sanction, or notification of other Allied
Powers, or without approval of or discussion with the
Supreme Commander to whom the Allied Powers have dele-
gated sole jurisdiction over Japanese affairs. The
Government of China has never been given and can not
justly assume jurisdiction over Japanese on the high
seas, and the area lying between Chinese territorial
waters and the area authorized by the Supreme Commander
for Japanese fishing operations can not be regarded
as subject to Chinese control regardless of "traditional
fishing interests" claimed by China.
On behalf of the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, the Diplomatic Section must make emphatic
protest against the unilateral and unjustified action
the Chinese Government has taken in its repeated seizures
of Japanese fishing vessels on the high seas in disregard
of the Supreme Commander's policy which was clearly
expressed to the Chinese Government, through the Mission,
as early as June 22, 1948. It is requested, therefore,
that the Mission convey to the Chinese Government at
the earliest opportunity the extreme ∞ ncern oi the
Supreme Commander over this matter and his desire that
seizures of Japanese vessels cease immediately, and that
all vessels previously seized and still in the custody
of the Chinese Government be released immediately and
returned to Japan together with their crews. The Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers furthermore requests
the Mission to obtain from the Chinese Government a
complete report of all seizures to date, giving full
details surrounding each seizure and the charges against
vessels and crews. As previously noted, if such informa-
tion determines that the vessels have violated the Supreme
Commander's directive by proceeding beyond the limits of
the authorized fishing area, those responsible for such
violations will be brought to trial in Japan by the
competent authorities.
Tokyo, July 18, 1949.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 3 to Dospatch
no. 553 dated August 13, 1949
from the United States Politieal
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject, "Seizures of
Japanese Fishing Vessels by
Chinese Patrols".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
Diplomatic Section
The Diplomatic Section, General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Ailied Powers, presents its
compliments to the Chinese Mission in Japan and has the
honor to bring to the Iission's attention the reported
seizure by Chinese naval craft of four Japanese fishing
boats。
It has been bro ught to the attention of the
Diplomatic Section that in May, 1949, four Japanese
fishing vessels, the Nitto Maru No's. 5, 25, 52 and 53,
were seized on the high s eas by a destroyer of the
Chinese Navy.
Reliable information has been received that the
four Japanese fishing vessels were seized by the destroyer
Chang Chih (
) of the Chinese Navy, that the
vessels with their crews have been held at Tinghai,
Chushan Island, since May 25, 1949, but may be taken to
Formosa, that the vessels are being used for military
purposes, their names having been altered or changed,
and that of the four vessels, the Nitto Maru No. 5 and
the Nitto Maru No. 53 have been lightly armed.
The Supreme Commander views this situation with
extreme concern. As the Mission was advised by the
Diplomatic Section's communication of January 24, 1949,
Japanese fishing operations on the high seas have been
authorized by a directive issued by the Supreme Commander
and in the event that Japanese fishing vessels violate
the Supreme Commander's directive by proceeding beyond
the limits of the authorized fishing area, it is the
responsibility of the Supreme Commander as the sole
executive for the Allied Power, not the responsibility
of any Allied Power individually, to deal with such
violations and take whatever steps are necessary to
insure enforcement of the Supreme Comnander's directive.
It would be appreciated, therefore, if the Mission would
advise the Chinese Government as soon as possible of
this matter and convey the request of the Supreme Com-
mander that the four Japanese vessels which were seized
on the high seas by the Chinese destroyer Chang Chih
and any other Japanese vessels which may have been
similarly seized, be released immediately and returned
to Japan together with their crews.
In

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 3 to Tokyo's
Daspatoh no: 553, August 13,
1949.
-2-
In view of the reported use of some of these
vessels for military purposes, the Supreme Commander
additionally requests that the Mission secure a full
report on this incident. In addition to an explanation
of the reported use of these vessels for military purposes,
it is requested that the report give such particulars
as the date and position of each seizure. If it is
determined that the vessels in question were outside
the authorized fishing area, the persons responsible
for this violation of the Supreme Commander's directive
will be brought to trial in Japan by the competent
authorities.
Tokyo, June 27, 1949.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 4 to Despatch no.
553 August 13, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Seizures
of Japanese Fishing Vessels by
Chinese Patrols".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
Diplomatic Section
The Diplomatic Section, General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Ailied Powers, presents its
compliments to the Chinese Mission in Japan and has
the honor to refer to the Diplomatic Section's
communications of June 27, 1949 and July 18, 1949,
concerning seizures of Japanese fishing vessels by
Chinese patrols.
It has been brought to the attention of General
Headquarters that seven vessels additional to those
mentioned in the Diplomatic Section's above-cited
communications have been seized by the Chinese Navy.
The vessels involved consist of Tokai Maru and Miho
Maru, seized on or about May 13; Hokoku Maru Nos. 58
and 60, seized on or about June 11; Koyagi Maru No. 5
and Zenshin Maru Nos. 3 and 5, seized on or about
June 10-11. Miho Maru escaped and returned to Japan
on June 4. Hokoku Maru Nos. 58 and 60 were apparently
taken to Penghau Island on June 12. Crew members of
Koyagi Maru No. 5 and eight crew members of Zenshin
Maru No. 5 were transferred to Zenshin Maru No. 3
which was ordered to return to Japan, arriving on
June 15。
As the Mission was advised in the Diplomatic
Section's communications of June 27 and July 18, the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers views with
grave concern the continued and unwarranted seizure
of Japanese fishing vessels on the high seas by Chinese
naval patrols, and particularly the use of such vessels
by Chinese naval forces.
On behalf of the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers. the Diplomatic Section must again make emphatic
protest against this unjustified action and again request
the Mission to inforn the Chinese Government that the
Supreme Commander desires that such seizures of Japanese
fishing vessels on the high seas cease herewith and that
all vessels heretofore seized be released and returned to
Japan with their crews together with a complete report
of the circumstances surrounding each seizure.
Tokyo, August 8, 1949.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 5 to Despatch no.
553 dated August 13, 1949 from
the United States Politioal Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjoot.
"Seizures of Japanese Fishing Vessels
by Chinese Patrols".
(COPY)
Nippon Times, August 1, 1949.
SEBALD PROTESTS NATIONALIST GRAB OF FISHING BOATS
Details Being Withheld by SCAP Official - 1l Vessels
Involved.
By the United Press.
SCAP's fisheries chief, W. C. Herrington, said
Sunday that the Occupation headquarters does not plan
to arm the new Japanese fisheries inspection fleet to
prevent further Nationalist Chinese attacks on Japanese
fishing boats. Foreign commentaries on General MacArthur's
diplomatic protest against the se'zure of ll Japanese
fishing vessels by Chinese gunboats in the East China
Sea have suggested that the Japant se inspection fleet
might be armed and prepared to retaliate if the Canton
government does not insure that the Nationalist forays
will cease.
By John Rich
INS Staff Correspondent
General MacArthur's Diplomatic Section Chief William J.
Sebald confirmed Saturday that he has protested to the
Chinese Nationalist Government against seizure of Japanese
fishing boats in waters southwest of Kyushu.
Mr. Sebald declined to discuss the written protest in
detail "while negotiations are still going on" but admitted
that it involved eleven vessels.
W. C. Herrington, head of SCAP's Fisheries Division,
said returning Japanese fishermen had reported the
captured boats were being put to military uses.
It was believed this point was also included in the
diplomatic protest.
Mr. Herrington said, according to information from
fishermen, boat owners and the Japanese government,
the Chinese are holding nine trawlers and seven full
crews at an undisclosed port or ports.
He said two boats, with two extra crews, had
escaped and returned to Japan.
The Japanese trawlers, operating out of. the ports
of Shimonoseki, Nagasaki and Tobata are steel hulls,
diesel propeller, of about lo0 tons and carrying a
crew of 14.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 5 to Tokyo's
Despatch no. 553, August 13,
1949.
-2-
He said the captured boats had been picked up
over the past two months both inside and outside Japan's
legal fishing areas in a latitude about parallel with
Shanghai.
Mr. Sebald said his protest handed to Chinese
General Chu Shih-Ming did not deal with the reported sinking
of a Japanese fisherman recently southwest of Kyushu by
an unidentified gunboat.
Survivors who reached Japan this week reported
their skipper and four crew members were killed outright
by gunfire from the war vessel which sank the trawler.
The Japanese Maritime-Safety Commission said the
survivors will be brought to Tokyo next week for question-
ing。
SCAP spokesmen have been publioly critical of Japanese
fishermen for consistently poaching outside the restricted
fishing grounds set aside for Japan after the surrender.
This month SCAP directed the Japanese Government
to provide all the boats necessary to establish an
effective patrol to keep Japanese fishermen within their
home grounds.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
No. 573
Tokyo, August 23, 1949.
REC'D
SEPT.3
CONFIDENTIAL
U/FWFISHERIES
m aitomregred
SEP8 1949
ACTION
U/FW
AND WILDLIFE
INFO
Subject: Sinking of Japanese Fishing Vossel by Chinese.
DCR
FE
L
894.628/8-2349
OLI
14
The Honorable
The secretary of State,
Hashington.
8
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's
despatch no. 553 of August 13, 1949, concerning Chinese
seizures of Japane se fishing vessels on the high seas
and this Lission's comnunications in its capecity of
Diplomatic Section, General Headquarters, with the
1/
Chinese Mission in Japan on the subject, and to transmit
a copy of a remorandu rren: ed by the Natural Resources
Section, dated August 8, l949, congerning an interview
with the Chief Engineer of the Akashi Maru No. 105,
a Japanese fishing vessel which was sunk on the high
seas by a Chinese vessel.
According to this memorandum, the Akashi Meru No. 105
was seized by an armed Chinese vessel on June 10, taken
in tow, but later sunk by gun fire. As the vessel was
sinking, the Chinese craft swept the hull with machine
gun fire. As a result, the captain and three crew
members were killed, and four crew members are missing
and presumed to be dead. Four crew members survived
the attack. The survivors were later rescued by a
British vessel, taken to Hong Kong, and repatriated to
Japan on June 19.
This incident was brought to the attention of the
2/
Chinese Mission in  communication dated August 23,
1949, a copy of which is enclosed, requesting the
Chinese Mission to consider this incident in connection
with this Mission's previous communications concerning
unwarranted seizures of Japanese fishing vessels by
Chinese patrols.
FAP
Respectfully yours,
QCT 10 1946
FILED
W. J. Sebald
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
att
Enclosures:
1.
Memorandum from NRS,
August 8, 1949.
2.
Letter fron Di-lometic
Section to Chinese Mission,
August 23, 1949.
givm
Parchment Mat to Department.
543.1/522.8
CNSpinks:mhp
CONF IDENTIAL

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 1 to Despatch
no. 573 dated August 23, 1949
from the United States Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Sinking of Japanese
Fishing Vessel by Chinese.
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMAND ER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Resources Section
NR 432.11 (ε Au9 49)Fi
8 August 1949
MEMORANDUM FOR: Record
SUBJECT:
Capture and Sinking of the Akashi-maru
No. 105
1. On 2 August 1949 a meeting was held in Fisheries
Division Office to obtain the details of the sinking
of the Akashi-maru No. lo5. Present were:
Mr. T. Ohata, Chief Engineer of Akashi-maru
No. 105
Mr. T. Sei. Taiyo Gyogyo K.K.
Mr. T. Ho ur, Taiyo Gyogyo K..
Mr. J. Ishizeki, Interpreter, Taiyo Gyogyo K.K.
Mr. S. Suzuku, Japanese Fisheries Agency
Mr. T. Kanagawa, Maritime Safety Board
Mr. W. C. Neville, Fisheries Division, NRS
Mr. S. Nagata, Fisheries Division, NRS
Mr. W. C. Herrington, Fisheries Division, NRS
2. In response to guestioning Mr. Ohata reported
as follows:
a. The Akashi-maru No. 105 was a steel bull
trawler of 76 gross tons, pavered with the 160 horsepower
hot bulb engine and with a speed of 8.5 knots. She was
owned by the Taiyo Gyogyo K.K. This boat and her partner,
Akashi-maru No. 103, left Shimonoseki on 1500 hours of
30 May. On the 2nd of June at 1600 hours they reached a
point estimated to be 290 19' N. 1240 19' E with soundings
of 8 m. and began fishing. On the 9th of June while
in the region 270 30' N and 1240 10' E at 1935 hours
they began cruising in search of better fishing grounds
and at 2230 hours Akashi-maru No. 105 1ost sight of No. 103.
Mr. Ohata was in the engine room most of the time so that
much of his story is a repetition of information obtained
from the captain before his death. In searching for
Akashi-maru No. l03 . vessel ran west, probably outside
of the authorized fishing area. At about Oloo hours,
10 June

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
toure no. . to
Tokyo's no. 573,
August 23, 1949.
-2-
10 June 1949, several lights were seen indicating other
vessels were fishing in that area. A light was seen
approaching and the Akashi-maru No. 105 became suspicious
and changed course to the east. The approaching boat
then turned a searchlight on the Akashi-meru No. 105
and fired a shell across her bow. The Akashi-maru No. 105
stopped her propeller and the other ship came along side.
b. The pursuing ship carried no flag and had no
markings which could be seen by Mr. Ohata. She was about
twice the length of the keshi-maru No. 105 and her deck
was about four feet above that of the Akashi-maru No. 105
which has a freeboard of about five feet. On the after-
deck of this ship which was alone side the Akashi-mari
No. l05, Mr. Ohata saw a gun luiret vi th two guns just
aft of the funnel. He did not see the forward part of the
boat so oes not know what armament was carried forward.
On the stern this bost carried  stack of chairs and
tables. The ship was gray, somewhat darker than the color
of U. S. warships.
c. One man boarded the Akashi-maru No. 105 with
the end of a 2/4" wire rope which he ordered the Japanese
crew to secure to the bow. He walked forward with two
Japanese fishermen to make fast the tow cable and remarked
to them in Jaranese, "You have had hard luck.' This man
spoke Jepanese without an accent and wore a uniform and
cap of dark khaki with two dark lines on the cap, which
appeared to Mr. Chata to be similar to that worn by the
prewar Japenese Navy. No other members of the crew of the
attackinc boat came on board the Akashi-maru No. 105,
but Mr. Ohata heard then telking among themselves and all
spoke Chinese. Mr. Oheta has spent several years at
ingtao and can distinguish between the spoken Chinese
and orean. He also stated that the faces of the crew of
the other boat were definitely Chinese. Three of the
Chinese crew wore officers caps, 3 wore caps with turned
up ear flaps and two wore typical sailor's caps. The
Japanese speaking officer then returned to the Chinese
boat and shortly afterward a note was handed down written
in Chinese-Japanese characters. Mr. Ohata glanced at
this note and then handed it to the captain. He saw
that it indicated directions for four speeds - full,
half, stop and one more which he could not make out.
d. The Chinese Boat signaled full speed ahead
and, with the assistance of the tow provided by the
Chinese boat, a speed was reached which Mr. Ohata estimated
to be 16 or 17 knots. At ahout 0300 hours on 10 June 1949,
the towing wire snapped and the Chinese boat swung around
and through a meguphone ordered the k shi-maru No. 105
to follow at full speed. When the latter approached
too close, a shell was fired across her bow; if she
dropped back, a shell was fired across her stern.
e. At

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure no. 1 to
Tokyo's no. 573,
August 23, 1949:
-3-
e. At loooo hours continuous shelling began
while Mr. Ohata was in his bunk, which he left and came
on deck. He oounted 30 explosions of the shells and
the ship began sinking. This was delayed temporarily
by the bulkhead separating the engine room from the
forward and after hold. While the ship was sinking,
the Chinese boat began sweeping the hull with machine
Hhfire.  The No. 1 fireman was hit by shell fragment.
and others were wounded. When machine gunning stopped,
Mr. Ohata came on deck and the men began attempting to
put together a raft.
f. At l0lo hours eight men jumped from the vessel
as the engine room flooded, leaving four men apparently
killed. Three of the escaping men were badly wounded;
one in the thigh, one in the back and one in the head.
Following this the shooting stopped and the Chinese boat
circled back past the debris while the Japanese survivors
hid. A raft was made up of the floating debris but six
hours later broke completely and the fragments were
divided among the eight men. Four of these remained in
one group and two were s eparated somewhat from the remainder,
while the other two disappeared during this time.
g. At about 2300 hours a light was sighted and
the surviving fishermen shouted to attract attention.
Four survivors were picked up at 23lo hours Hong Kong
time by the SS. Christo Par of Panama and brought to
Hong Kong. The two others disappeared before they could
be picked up. At 1400 hours on the 12th of June they
reached Hong Kong and remained on the boat until 12o0
hours on the 13th of June when they landed and were held
in a refugee camp. They left Hong Kong on the l4th
of June on the British steamer San Goro and on the 19th of
June arrived at Kobe.
h. During the time that they were being towed
by the Chinese boat, Mr. Ohata discussed the situation
with Capt. Morita of the Akashi-maru No. l05. The captain
believed that they were still in the authorized area
when sighted by the Chinese boat.
3. Mr. Ohata wished to extend thanks to the crew
of the SS Christo Par who supplied them with clothing,
cigarettes, and $25 American and $32 Hong Kong.
4. The following is the list of crew members as
reported:
a. Dead: 4
Captain, MORITA Shigematsu - was killed on the
spot
Sailor, KIMOTO Iwao - was killed on the spot
Sailor,

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 1:to
Tokyo's Despatch no.
573, August 23, 1949.
-4-
Dead:
Sailor, MOnImOTo Asata - was severely wounded,
fell overboard and died.
Operator, YOSHIMORI Yaematsu - was severely
wounded and died.
b. Missing: 4
Sailor, HASHIl OTO Kazumi - was severely
wounded and missing.
Operator, YOsHINRA Yoshio - was severely
wounded and missing.
Probationary Navigator, IRIE Yoshitomo -
missing.
Trainee, IDLDA Shikai - missing
c. Returned alive: 4
Chief Engineer, OHATA Tsuruo
Operator, NO..IYAA Toshio
Sailor, KUSUMOTO Motoichi
Cook, MIYAYOSHI Masayoshi
WILLIAM C. HRRINGTON
Chief, Fisheries Division
Copies to:
DS
G-3
ComNavFe

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to Despatch
no. 573 dated August 23, 1949
from the United States Politioal
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject, "Sinking of Japanese.
Fishing Vessel by Chinese".
(COPY)
GENERAL FEADGUARTERS
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
Diplomatic Section
The Diplomatic Section, General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, presents its
compliments to the Chinese Mission in Japan and has
the honor to refer to the Diplomatic Section's communica-
tions of June 27, July 18, and August 8, 1949, concern-
ing seizures of Japanese fishing vessels on the high
seas by Chinese patrols.
A further serious incident for consideration in
connection with those previously reported has now been
brought to the attention of General Headquarters, namely,
the case of the Akashi Maru No. l05, which is reliably
reported to have been forcibly seized by an armed
Chinese vessel in the Zast China Sea on June 10, 1949,
taken in tow by the Chinese and later sunk by gun fire.
While the Akashi Maru No. 105 was sinking, the Chinese
vessel swept the fishing craft with machine gun fire.
The captain of the fishing vessel and three members of
the crew were killed by machine un fire, four crew
members are missing and are presumed to be dead, and
four crew members survived the attack. The survivors
were later rescued by a British vessel, taken to Hong
Kong, and repatriated to Japan on June 19.
It is requested that the Mission communicate the
foregoing to the Chinese Government for consid eration
in connection with the communications under reference
and that the Di lomatic Section be provided as soon as
may be possible with eny information which may be avail-
able in the premises, as well as the views of the Chinese
Government.
Tokyo, August 23, 1949.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.97)
United States Politioal Adviser
UIVISION oF
for Japan
894.628/8-2949
VORTHFAST ASIAN AFFURJO, August 29, 1949.
REC 'D
No. 594
daycd t
SEPT 23
SECRET
IHARTMEN OF STATE
ACTION
POLITU
FE
INFO
Subfect:
Proposed Northern Extension of the Japanese
DCR
Fishing Area.
U/FW
L
894.628/8-2949
EUR
ITP
The Honorable
Secretary of State,
m
Washington.
Sir:
006451
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatoh
no. 416 of June 27. 1949, concerning Soviet and Japanese
territoriel claims to the Kuril Islands and the Habomai-
Shikotan Group.
The Natural Resources Section, General Headquerters,
has requested this Mission's views concerning a proposel.
now being discussed for a northern extension of the author-
ized Japanese fishing area as established by SCAPIN l033
as amended The present boundaries of the fishing area
1/
and the proposed extension are indicated on the enclosed
sketchThe present boundary in northern Hokkaido would
be extended to the middle of the Soye (La Perouse) Straits
between Hokkeido and Sakhal in, extending eastward to the
point 1490 10' east longitude and 450 44' north latitude;
thence south, passing the midpoint of the Etorofu Straits
between Etorofu Isleni and Uruppu Island in the southern
Kuri1 Islands, to the point l490 l0' east longitude and
450 north latitude, thence east to the northeastern oor-
ner of the present bound ery.
The proposed extension would eliminate the unsatis-
factory boundery now passing through the Nemuro and
Goyomai Straits which provides the Japanese in easten
Hokkeido only a three-mile belt as a fishing area a
as a navigation channel between Hokkaido and the Kuril
and Habomai Islands. The proposed extension would so
make evailable to the Japanese excellent fishing grounds
in the waters between Kunashiri Island and the Habom
Islands which are now outside the authorized fishing
FAP
rea. It is in this area that many of the Soviet sei-
zres of Japanese fishing craft have taken place.
By exnding
SECRET
RETURN TO D

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 594,
August 29, 1949.
-.2 -
By extending the boundery to the proposed limits,
Soviet-occupied Etorofu, Kunashiri, the Hobomai Group,
and Shikotan Islend wouid be brought within the author-
ized fishing erea. Paragraph 3a of SCAPIN 1033 provides
that
"Tepanese vessels will not approach closer than
twelve (12) miles to any island within the author-
ized sree which lies south of 3oº North Latitude.
with the exception of Sofu Gan. Personnel from
such vessels will not land on islends lying south
of 3o0 North Latitude, except Sofu Gan, nor have
contact with any inhabitants thereof."
Paragreph 3b also imposes this twelve mile limit to the
island of Takeshima which is north of 300 north latitude.
Although the twelve mile limit is at present restricted to
specific islands within the authorized rishing aree (prin-
cipally the Bonin and Ryukyu Islends which are under United
States occupetion), this provision of SCAPIN 1033 is be-
lieved to offer an undesirable precedent for the Kuril and
Habomai Islands if these islends were brought within the
fishing erea by the proposed northern extension. The ap-
plicetion of e twelve mile limit to the Kuril-Habomai is-
lands would in effect negate any fishing advantages which
might be gained by the proposed extension, since large
parts of the best fishing arees would be cut off due to
the close proximity of the Soviet-occupied islands. More-
over, if the twelve mile limit were literelly epplied with
respect to Suisho Islenl in the Habomai Group, it would be
impossible for Tapenese vessels to use the Goyomai Straits,
the width of which between Noseppu Cape in Hokkaido end
Suisho Island is only approximately three miles.
In discussing informally the proposed northern exten-
sion with the Naturel Rescurces Section, this Missionghas
expressed the view that action on this matter be postponed
until current discussion of the Japanese fishing area prob-
lem in the Far Eastern Commission more fully clarifies the
policy of the United States and the Commission. It has al-
so been suggested that the present twelve mile limit of
SCAPIN l033 presents a problem which might complicate the
proposed northern extension, and that bafore such an e
tension is taken up it would be edvisable to give considera-
tion to emending CAPIN 1033 so that the twelve mile limit
is modified to the customary three mile limit. Such a pre-
liminary step would only affect territories now occupied
by the United States
While the likelihood of strong Soviet opposition to
the proposed northern extension of the fishing area is
fully recognized, this Mission believes thet it is neces-
sary end desireble to effect some kind of rectification
of the northern boundaries of the fishing area at the
earliest opportunity. The present boundery in eastern
Hokkaido
SECRET

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 594,
August 29, 1949.
Hokkaido creates an impracticable, unworkable situation
The so-called MacArthur Line deprives the Japanese in
this aree of the only good fishing grounds, a situation
which is conducive to premeditated violations of the 
fishing area however strict patrols and enforcement may
be and however much efforts ere mede to educate the Jepa-
nese to abide by the provisions of 3CAPIN 1033. The re-
wards for violating the provisions are great and are
coupled with a deep-rpoted attitude on the part of the
Japanese that they have been unjustly deprived of one of
their best and treditional fishing grounds. The fact,
too, that much of the Kuril fishing erea is on the high
seas (that is. beyond the three mile limit of any Kuril
territories) gives the Jepanese e further argument in
favor of fishing in these waters.
The present fishing boundary in the Hokkaido-Kuril-
Habomai area elso constitutes a serious hazard to naviga-
tion by vessels which endeavor to abide by the provisions
of SCAPIN 1033 and stay within the MacArthur Line.
The most important ergument in favor of the proposed
northern extension is believed to be found in the future
political implications which have grown out of Soviet oc-
cupation of the southern Kuril Islands and the Habomai
Group While the provisions of SCAPIN 1033 are, strictly
speaking, a SCAP administrative matter having no bearing
on the future disposition of territories or determination
of political boundaries, it is now clear that the Soviet
Government is thinking in terms of the present MacArthur
Line, in the channels bordering eastern Hokkaido, as the
future political boundery The longer this situation is
left unehanged, the more ustified will the Soviet Govern-
ment feel itseif in regarding the MacArthur Line as a basis
for a permanent political boundary Even though Soviet op-
position may be of such charecter as to prevent realiza-
tion of the proposed northern extension, it is believed
that such a proposal should be mede at the earliest oppor-
tunity to show that SCAP does not regard the present bound-
ary ss a permanent, immutable line. Even an unsuccessful
effort to extend the line in this area may serve as a use-
ful precedent when the Tapanese peace settlement is made
end it becomes necessary to draw Japan's future interna-
tional boundaries As the situation now stands, all.ac-
tion taken by SCAP with regard to the northern boundaries.
of the fishing area has paid extreme deference to the So-
viet position, not only in the southern Kuril Islands but
also with regard to the unilateral steps taken by the So-
viet Union in occupying the Habomai Group and the island
of Shikotan, neither srea of which can be properly re-
garded as a pert of the Kuril Islands as pledged to the
Soviet Union at the Yalta Conference.
In view

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 594,
August 29,1949.
In view of these considerations end the pending
proposal of the Natural Resources Section, this Mission
would eppreciate the Department's views on the proposed
northern extension of the fishing erea.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Sketch indicsting
proposed extensior
S 522.8
CNSpinks:gmd
SECRET
Jula

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.89)
SEORET
Enclosure to Despatah no. 394 d
August 29, 1949 from the Unimed Stateo
Political Adviser Tor Japan, Tokyo,
on.t he subject, "Proposed Northern
Extension or the Japanese Mishing
Area"
4
1230E
45 sc
30'N
m
÷5044'N
144010'E
750N
149010E
4°N
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.93)
WMC
International
J. F. JURICH, Preekdent
.00
OSCAR ANDERSON, Vie
JEFF KIBRE. Secrefary-Tn
FISHERMEN & ALLIED WORKERS OF AMERICA
C10
AFFILIATED WITH THE CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL
AMERICA
4124 ARCADE BUILDING
U/FWFISHERIESSEATTLE 1, WASHINGTON
Copy sent To WMc 9/19/494
SL 16 1949
Reply drspel 9/91/49 E0122
September 14, 1949
AND WILDLIFE
dc/e Fill
894.628/9-1449
Dr. W. . Chapman,
Special Assistant,
Department of State,
Washington,D. C.
Dear Dr. Chapman:
Enclosed you will find copy of my letter to Senator
Warren G. Magnuson which is self-explanatory.
As you will note, we have raised this que stion with
Senator Morse also, as weil as our Congressmen. We
will greatly appreciate anything you may be able to
do on this mattor. Should you need further infomation,
please call on us.
Very tyuly yours,
FSmich
04707
.F, JURICH
JFJ:6
President
uopwa 55
encl.
001191949
CS
FILED
/H
3C

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
International
FISHERMEN & ALLIED WORKERS OF AMERIC
AFFILIATED WITH THE CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATION
4124 ARCADE BUILDING
SEATTLE 1, WASHINGTON
September 14, 1949
Hon. Warren G. Magnuson,
Senate Office Building,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Senat or Magnuson:
The fishing industry has informed me that the Army has annoumeed that effee-
tive October lst, it will discontinue buying fish through the Seatale Quar-
termaster Market Center for shipments to troops of occupation in Japm and
the South Pacific.
Apparently this means that badly needed employment in the Pacifie Northmest
will be shelved for the benefit of the building of the Japanese fishing fleet.
On behalf of thousands of our members who will be affected, we vigerougly
protest this step, and ask that you do everything within your power to give
our employees opportunities to work and earn a living, as employment available
to them is almost dovn to zero, if not working in the industry.
I realize this raises any number of problems, but I believe that Ameriesm
workers should be given first opportunity to whatever work may be available.
The import of foreign fish products and lack of foreign markets is alreedy
putting a great strain on the economy of those communities where fishing
predominates. 65% of the Army's Japanese and South Pacific purohases are
made, at the present time, through the Seattle Quartermaster Market Center.
Please advise on anything you can do in this matter.
Yours eincerely,
JFJ1g
J. F. JURICH
uopwa 55
President
ce Sen. Morse, Cong. Tollefson,
Jackson, Mitehell, Mack, Holmes
also Dr. W. M. Chapman

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.97)
SEP 271949
roply refer to
Dear Mr. Jurich:
I refer to your letter of September 14, 1949
to Dr. Chapman relative to Army purchases of fish for
894.628/9-1449
troops in the Pacific.
Dr. Chapman has been absent from the Department
on a trip to the West Coast and since his schedule
called for him to be in Seattle by the middle of last
e
week, your letter together with information obtained
from the office of the Quartermaster General was sent
to him for use in the event that a personal diseussion
of this question could be arranged.
In view of the above you are no doubt already
familiar with the following information; however, this
will serve as a confirmation.
The Quartermaster General's office informs that
there is an Army directive, over a year old, to the
effect that "overseas commanders will make maximum
utilization of local indigenous sources prior to
requisitioning for subsistence on the United States".
Although this directive has been applied in certain
European areas, General MacArthur has evidently not con-
sidered that the fishing industry of Japan was able to
supply his occupation forces, so he is only now bring-
894.628
ing Japan in under the directive. It was pointed out,
however,
Mr. J. F. Jurich, President
International Fishermen & Allied Workers,
4124 Areade Building,
Seattle 1, Washington.
SS
H

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
hewever, that the changs in preeurement applles enly
to troops im Japan and not to all the treope im the
Pacifie area.
It was further pointed out that the tetal perekases
of fish from San Franciseo and Seattle by the Quarter-
master from September 1948 to Augast 1949 ameunted to
6,127,715 pounds. The total quantity shipped te Japam
during this period amounted to 1,252,000 pemmds, er
about 20% of the total amount of fish purehased. It
was then reiterated that the Seattle Quartermaster
Market Center will continue to buy fish fer Alaska,
Northwest military installations, and all other areas
in the Pacific except Japan.
Under the circumstances there does not appear to
be any action that could be appropriately taken by
this office. The Quartermaster General's effiee has
given assurance of its awareness of the preblems of
the fishing industry but does not believe the industry
will be seriously affected by this action.
If further information is needed I shall be glad
to hear from you.
Sincerely yours,
Warren F. Leoney
Foreign Affairs Specialist
Fisheries and wildlife
Office of the Under Seeretary
CR
SEP 2. 194 
NA
Depart ent of the Army
EC
(Cleared by phone (C1 ed by phone with
U/FW:ECastleman:bb
with Mr. Fearey)
George Baxter)
September ?7, 1949
Ec
EC

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.92)
w
U/FW - FISHERIES
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
no antim rmiquirid
OF THE
OCT
41949
FILE-
WFL
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND WILDLIFE
Office of the United States
Political Adviser for Japan
Tokyo, September 15, 1949.
No。 638
CONFIDENTIAL
REC 'D
SEPT 29
ACTON
U/FW
894628/9-1549
Subject: Sinking of Japunese Frshang Vessel ly Chinese Patrol.
INFO
DCR
FE
L
The Honerable
OLI
The Secretary of 
Washing
C
S:r.
I haye hMiesion's despatehes no.
553 nd to pospeiely soncerning
sefgures af upls  the Bast Shina Sea y
Chinese pat rei
rprsontcions made to the Chinese Mission
in Japan n
Mssron in its capacity of
Diplomat
adqeerer
XR
Under daveer e the Japanese Ministry of
Foreig Afrmion to General Headquarters
894.857
1/
ot her fhmg a m ume o A copy of the communi-
cation frm thePoreien affairs is enslosed. Regardless
of the ex nd sinking of the Akashi
Maru took ph
ntry of Foreign Affairs considers
the attack a f  aton of established rules of international
law and has roquasted Generat Headquarters to protest to the Chinese
Government on bels f of the panese Government to the end of assur-
ing that adeqte r e taken to prevent any recurrences of
similar incidenta
Accompanyin the coununiction from the Japanese Ministry of
Foreign Affairs is A repert prepared by the Maritime Safety Board
and dated August 5 1949, rgariing the sinking of the Akashi Maru
2/
No. 105 According to this epert, a copy of which is enclosed
herewith, all available evidence indicates that the Akashi Maru was
captured in the vioinity of 124935 east 1ongitude and 28040 north
latitude, and was fired upen and sunk in the vicinity of 124 east
longitude and 290lo north latitude, both positions being well within
the authorized fishing ared.
Another report
FILED
CONFIDENTIAL
00
1949
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TÀKEN.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 638,
September 15,.1949.
-2-
3/
Another report by the Maritime Safety Board (copy enclosed)
accompanying the communication from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
describes the seizures of the fishing vessels Miho Maru and Tokai
Maru on May 17, and the Kasho Maru No. 5 (a steam trawler of 277 tons),
and the Zenshin Maru Nos. 3 and 5 on June 10. The Miho Maru escaped
and returned to Japan on June 4. The Zenshin Maru No. 3 was subsequently
released by the Chinese and returned to Japan on June 15.
14/
There is also enclosed a tabulation compiled by the Mini:tr of
Foreign Affairs of all reported seizures of Japanese fishing is els
during 1948 and 1949. The tabulation gives a total of sixty-s :v n
seizures, twelve of which have been made by Chinese patrols (n:t in-
cluding the Akashi Maru, which was sunk). Of vessels seized y the
Chinese, three have escaped or been returned; of the other fif y-five
seizures, forty-seven have been returned.
With regard to the request in the communication from the Japanese
Ministry of Foreign Affairs that General Headquarters protest to the
Chinese Government over the sinking of the Akashi Maru, the finistry
of Foreign Affairs has been informed that a communication was addressed
to the Chinese Fission on August 23, 1949, by this Mission in its
capacity of the Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters (this Mission's
despatch no. 573 already cited).
Respectfully yours,
W. J.. Sebald
Enclosures:
Miru
i 1. Copy of communication dated
Sept ember 2, 1949, from
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
2. Copy of report dated August 5,
1949, by Maritine Safety Board
on Akashi Maru No. 105.
3. Copy of report dated July 29,
1949, by Marit ime Safety Board.
 4. Copy of tabulation by Ministry
of Foreign Affairs on seizures
of Japanese fishing vessels
during 1948 and 1949.
522.8
CNSpinks:hh
Parchment Mat to Department.
CONRIDENTIAL

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No.
633 dated September 15, 1949,
from Office of the United States
Folitical Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subject: "Sin!: ing of Jap-
anese Fishing Vessel by Chinese
Patrel".
COFY
TO
: GHNERAL IEAD UARTERS, SUEREE CCLLANDER FOR THE ALLTED POWERS.
(Atiention Diplomatic Section)
FROM : Hinistry of Foreign Affairs.
SUBJECT:
Request to the SUPRL E COLLEDER FOR THE ALLLED POWERS t.
take necessary steps in order to lodge a protest with the
Chinese Coveriment regarding the sinking of "No. 105 Aka shi
Maru", and seizure of other Japanese vessels.
GA..B/FO
Sept ember 2, 1949.
1. The inistry of Fereign Affairs was duly informed by the Director-
General, Maritime Safety Agency, of the sinking of "No. 105 Akashi Maru"
on June 10, 1949, of the detention of steam-trawler "Miho Maru" and "Tokai
Maru" on May 12, 1949, of the  tention of steam-trawler "Kasho Maru No. 5",
"Zenshin Mru No. 5" and "Ne. ?" on June 10, 1949. The report of above
cases are /sic/ enclosed herewi th.
2. Although the report with regerd to the sinking of "Akashi Maru"
doe not pecify the nationality of the vessel in offensive, it is
logical and reasonable to assune fron the circumstances in which the
other ships were seized that the vessel in question is of Chinese origin.
The report reveals that "No. 105 Akashi Maru" was ordered to steam along-
side by a warship of untnown origin on June 10, 1949 while sailing on
Eastern China Sea. The ve sel attempted to escape, but was forced to
stop after receiving a threatening gunfire. From this point on she was
towed by the warship by means of a cable. However, the cable broke off
and wlthough the ve sel vas following the warship at full speed as
ordered, the vas suddenly fired upon end sank eventually. Four members
of the crew were killed und four others are still missing.
3. Accorling to the report reached at the Maritime Sefety Agency,
the point where Akashi  aru met the warship is clearly within the limits
set forth by the S0Ar Menorandum dated June 22, 1946 concerning the area
authorized for Japanese fi hing and whaling. The Ministry of Foreign
Affairs considers it logical to cone lude that it is implied in the Memo-
randum that no attack will be made by the Allied warships upon a Jap-
anese vessel peacefully engaged in fishing within the authorized area.
4. It app ars, however, that the Chinese authorities claim that
this incident occurred within the territorial waters of China. But even
in the territorial waters, it constitutes a flagrant violation of the
established rules of international law, in war or peace, to have re-
course to armed att ack upon a peaceful vessel in the circumstances in
question,
5. It is the
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 638, September 15,
1949.
-2-
5. It is the opinion of this Ministry that the case of "No. 105
Akashi Maru" together with other similar incidents deserves full
attention on the part of the Japanese Government and that a strong
protest should be lodged with the Chinese Government in regard thereto.
It vill be highly appreciated, therefore, if the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers take necessary steps to-protest to the Chinese Govern-
ment on behalf of the Japanese Government and to duly notify the Chinese
Government in order that adequate measures be taken to prevent ary re-
currence of similar incidents in fut ure.
FOR THE MINISTER:
Ichiro OHTA
Vice Minister.
Incls:
1. Report on No. 105 AKASHI Maru.
2. Report on vessels seized by Chinese.
3. Information on Ships Detained.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No.
638 dated September 15, 1949, from
Office of United States Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, subject:
"Sinking of Japanese Fishing Vessel
by Chinese Fatrol".
COPY
MARITIME SAFETY BOARD
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION
MSB No. 1052 (PL)
5 August 1949
TO:
Suprene Comnander for the Allied Powers.
FROM:
Director-General, Maritime Safety Board.
VIA:
Foreign Office.
Subject:
Report on No. 105 AKASHI Maru.
We should like to submit the report on No. 105 AKASHI
Maru case enclcsed herewith.
T. Okubo,
Director-General,
Maritime Safety Board.
No. 105 Akashi-maru Case.
1. Sunken Vessel.
(1)
Name: No. 105 Akashi Maru.
(2)
Port of Registry. Shimonoseki Port.
(3)
Gross Tonnage and Horse Power: 75. 85 tons, Somi-diesel
Engine, 160 Horse Power.
(4)
Owner of the Vessel: Taiyo Fishery Co. 61 Takezaki-cho,
Shimonoseki.
(5) Crews 12 including Master MORITA Shigematsu.
2. Date of Accident: 10 June 1949, 1000
3. Place of Accident:
With the master dead and the mate missing it is difficult to
trace the exact place of disaster, But, it is inferable, from what
the survivors say, that the vessel was captured somewhere around
Long. 124035' E/ Lat. 28040'N and later vas sunken somewhere around
Long. 1240E/Lat. 29010' N.
4. Casualties:
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 638, September 15,
1949.
-2
4. Casualties: 4 alive, 4 dead and 4 missing.
5. Vessel in offensive.
The vessel in question whose name is unknown was a dark-grey,
one funnelled, about 800 ton warship of unknown nationality. It
was equipped with 4 pieces of what seened to be a /sic 8cm. gun
and 5 pieces of machine gun fore and aft. Abroad /sic were seen
about 20 soldiers, several of whom were armed with automatic rifles.
One of them was heard speaking Japanese with no provincial ac :er t.
6. Outline of Accident:
Together with fellow boat No. 103 Akashi-maru the boat left
Shimonoseki for the fishing ground on 30 May. On 2 June at Long
124035'E/Lat. 29019 N the boat operation sic and went on till
it reached Long, 1240 E/Lat. 27048' N on 6 June, 2000 when it turned
north to change the ground.
While heading north, the boat sight of the fellow boat amidst
many fishing lights around there and went further north in search
for her. The next day at Olo0 it discovered a light in the direction
of northwest and approached to find, instead of her, a warship of.
unknown nationality. "Follow us or you shall be fired" ordered a
voice from the ship in clear Japanese. However, as the boat was
within the MacArthur Line and found no reason to accompany her it
attempted to escape. For about one hour it ran at full speed, but
it could not get off her for it came to undergo intimidating fires from
her and was forced to stop. Then she came in contact with the boat
and towed it forcibly with wires. At about O330 the wires broke under
the high speed and it was ordered to accompany her at full speed.
However, around looo when it was following her it was suddenly exposed
to shots of about 40 sliells and several hundreds of bullets for about
10 minutes. The engine stopped and the following 4 crew died. A dock-
member named KIMoTo died instantaneously in front of the steering-gear,
MORITA, the master. died in his room and boatswain MORIMOTO, seriously
injured in the steering room, was blown off overboard by a shell when
he appeared later on the deck, while chief engineer, YOSHIWARA, was
seriously injured and died in the engine room.
The remaining eight men hurriedly built a raft in the boat which
was going to the bottom. At 1500 the raft, however, was broken up and
the eight men on it were obliged to swim, holding on to its scattered
boards. Striving to keep company /with/ each other they swam westward.
At 17OO HASHIMOTO and YOSHIWARA were left behind, from serious wound
and cold. Around 1800 Apprentice IKEDA and Mate IRIE were also left
behind among waves.
Discovering a vessel with side-light approaching from north, the
remaining four cried for help at the top of their voice.
The vessel
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 68, September 15,
1949.
-3
The vessel stopped at once and sent' a rescue boat by which
Chief Engineer OHATA, Ciler NOMIYAMA, Deck-member KUSUMOTO and
Cook MIYAYOSHI were saved. Meanwhile the searchlight of the rescue
vessel caught sight of IKEDA and IRIE who had been adrift when they
suddenly disappeared into the waters.
It is supposed that they were dragged into water by sharks
which were found in groups around there.
For over one hour utmost effort had been made to find out HASHIMOTO
and YOSHIWABA and other twe, but no trace of the four could be ound.
It turned out that the rescue vessel was a Panama ship named
Cristoval on whose board the four survivors ent ered. Hongkong Port on
12 June were admitted into a hospital for refugees on 15 June. After
staying there for 27 days, they got on board a British ship named
Sungora on 13 July. entered Kobe Port on 19 and returned to their
head office at Shimonoseki on 20 July.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No.
638 dated September 15, 1949,
from Office of the United States.
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subject:. "Sinking of
Japanese Fishing Vessel by Chinese
Patrol".
COPY
MARITIME SAFETY BOARD
HINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION
MSB No. 1029 (FL)
27th July, 1949.
TO:
Maritime Branch. PSD. G-2, SCAF.
FROM:
Law Enforcement Sec., MSB.
SUBJECT:
Report on ve sels seised by Chinese.
Contents
(A) Stean Trawi=r "HIHO MARU" & "TOKAI-MARU", both 99.26 tons
gross of Tobata were seized at Eastem Sea on 12th May but the former
fled from them on oth. nd returned home 4th June 1949.
(B) Stean Trawler "HAsH MARU No. 5". 277. 08 tons gross of
Nagasaki was seined at East ern Sea on 10th June and the crew were
released next day except  af bhem, and backed home on board "msn-
MARU No. 3" on 15th uly 1949
(C) Sailing Ship  ith Motor "ZEHSHIN-MARU" No. 5 & No. 3 both
66.20 tons gress of Temuoka were seized at Eastern Sea on 10th June
but the lutter was released on the nuxt day with her whole crew, taking
al so the crew of Wo  xoept 2 of them and backed home on 15th June,
1949.
T ORUBO
Director-General.
Marit ume Safety Board.
LARITUME SAPUTY BOARD
MINTSTRY OF TRANSPORTATION
MSB No. 1029 (PL)
29 July 1949.
I. Outline of Miho-Maru and Tokai -Maru Seizure Case.
1). Date and Place of Departure.
1 May 1949, O800 Japan Fishery Company's Quay at Tobata Port.
2). Type
UNCLASS IFIED

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3 to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 638, Sept ember 15,
1949。
-2-
2). Type, Name, gross Tonnage and Crew of Captured Vessels.
a. Trawl-Boat, Miho-Maru, 99.26 tons, 15 Crew including Chief
mate MUKAI Fujie.
b. Trawl-Beat Tokai-Maru, 99. 26 tons, 16 Crew including Chief
mate SAKAMOTO SengoTo.
3). Date and Place of Seizure. 2.3" 12 May, 1949.
Long. 125015. E.)
within MacArthur Line.
Lat. 32020' N.)
4). Seizure. AnIST type vessel belonging to Chinese Navy.
5). Pericd of . rom 12 May to 30 May, 19 days.
II. Outline of Case.
Sinee starting operat ion en 2 May the two vessels, Tokai-maru
acting as principal and Miho -maru as subordinate, had been engaged in
fishing in the authorized fishing area, when on the date and near the
spot mentioned above anIST type vessel belonging to the Chinose Havy
energed and ordered then to halt by an intimidating fire. Then a
Chinese Naval officer, without giving any reason, took command of the
vessels, dr ve them on a northward trip from the spot of seizure for
about thirty hours and laid them at anchor for two days at Reizan
Island.
15 May: Entered Psintac Port and deprived of 2, C00 cases of fishes.
17 May: About fiftuen Chinese including Naval officers. sailors
and their famllles embarked in to live together.
27 May: With the se Chinese soldiers on board sailed for Shusan
Islands, accempanied by Tokai Maru, Chinese junks and other seven or
so vessels.
Night of the same day. Stopped at Reizan Island.
28 May All the Chinese soldiers on board either landed there or
renoved to junks or a three-masted vessel. There were seen twenty-five
or so vessels full of soldiers.
29 May: An under officer on guard informed that they might leave
for Shusan Island or Okinawa about 2 June In the night all the members
of Miho-Maru deliberated on a method of escape.
30 May: At O300 all the members dared to make their escape. There
were sweeping fires from machine guns from behind, but all escaped in
safety.
4 June: Returned to Tobata.
III. Relation
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclomure No. 3 to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 638, September 15,
1949.
-3
III. Relation between case in question and rumor about groups of
Chinese vesseis escaping to Japan. Assuning that there might be
certain connectlon between the above information and the rumor that
groups of the Chinese governmental vessels were congregating to
Reizan Island to leave for Okinawa or Shusan Islands, our Headquarters
inquired the ch ief mate of  iho Karu and got the answer which coincides
with ours. From the above infonn tion we think it is quite lixely that
the ruaor in question has been engendered by such situation.
TO: Nagasaki H.S Leeal Hgs.
Repcrt on Sea-disaster by
KURODA Saneharu
Type and name of vessel: SS No. 5 Kasho-maru.
Register No. o vesscl. No. 53343
Area of Nan or lt to cperation: Third Class B.
Gross Tenbag ? e tons.
Pert where e si lejongs. Ragasakt shi.
Kind of Engine Stean engine.
Nominal horse pe wer 480 h.p.
Name anu adiress of persen to whon vessel belongs: Kawanami
Industrial Ce 1. Satttere no Kita ku Osaka-shi.
Fukaura. Kash m  hisenoki gun, Nagasaki-ken.
Chief Mate: RenA Sancharu. Certificate of Competency for
Seamanship
B-class st lass mate. Fishing Boat.
Fukaura. hasho-mura Ji  gonoki-gun, Nagasaki ken.
Chief Engineer LUlA Rin Certificate of Competency for Sea-
manship. B class 2nd class Engineer.
Date and place where event occurred. 10 June 1949: O300. Fishing
ground in Eastern Sea of China.
Detailed Account of Event:
On 5 June 1949, 1330 our boat. left Kasho Island outside Nagasaki
Fort for the fishing ground.
On 8 June. 1630 we started operation, casting net presumably at
the point Long 124006 E/ Lat. 27043 N. It was raining and the wind
velocity marked 1. Two days later on 10 June; 0300 when drawing net
northeastward presumably at the point Long. 12,01'E/Lat. 27032 N, we
happened to notice on the port quarter a vessel with lights off, but
with a
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 3 to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 638, September 15,
1949.
-4
with a search..light on coming very close toward us. Hardly hed we
noticed her, when she fired a signal fire and ordered us to halt.
Accordingly, we stopped at once and hauled in net. The weather them
was rainy with the north wind marking 2. The sea was running a bit
high and the visibility was very poor.
Threat ened with "ire we were cbliged to accompany her ani ailed
together southwest and During the trip we were given intimidating
fires whenever we made any deviation or lag whatever from our ccurse.
Under so strict a vigilance we were made Lto/ accompany her. Me anwhile,
on 10 June, abt. 10 00 t vo trawl boat s Nos. 3 and 5 Zenshin-m:ru were
also captured and joined us on a outhward trip. It was very quiet at
sea and the weather becane rainy and foggy. Around 03.00 of the noxt
day 11 wt, we stopped by order near the point presumably Long 122004
E/Lat. 25 4  Abcut. O9  of the same day we were given order that
all the members of cur tcat except one deck-crew and three enginoering
crew were to remove . No. 3 Zenshin maru with which to go back to
Japan.
Around ll.) we started for home on board the same boat and reached
out side Nagasaki r: r. J, 22. 30. By the way, all the documat
belonging to cur teat had been (onfiseated before we left her and we
were deprived of alret li ur personal belongings by the Chinese:
The mattere con: ning th rew of our boat and No. 3 Zanshimmaru
are as follows.
1. Crew of our boat Listed in the annexed sheet. (Omitted.)
2. Detained rew f our beat. Deck-crew: ARIFUkU Umeichi;
Engineering crew. SAHARA Tc, YOSHIZUMI Yuji. SHIMADA Koichi. Total 4.
3. The items r eruiy No. 3 Zenshin-maru:
Name of vess-i: Ne.  Zenshin maru.
Type: Sailing ship wmotor.
Register No. of vessel. No. 62713.
Gross Tornage: 66..20 tons.
Port where vessel belongs: Tomioka sho, Amakusa gun, Kumamoto-ken.
Name of Chief Mate: MITSUMA Keigo.
TO: Nagasaki M.S. Local Hqs.
Report on Sea-disaster by
MOROTANI Yoshitake.
Type and
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
malosure No. 3 to Tokyo's
Dedpatch No. 638, Sept ember 15.
1949.
-5-
Type and name of vessel: Sailing ship w/motor. No. 5 Zenship-
Maru.
Register No. of vessel: No. 62174.
Area of Navigation or Liait to Operation: Second class.
Gross topate. 6é 20 tne.
Port where vessel belongs
Tomloka-cho Amakusa-gun, Ku a to-ken.
Kind of egine: Semi-! esel engine.
Nemina berse power soo YF
Nane and a ldreis of pern t whoa vessel belongs: MOROTANI
Yoshitake 33 Ratahuli-ma:ni  chome Nagasaki-shi.
Chief Mate: MATsuMoro. Chitc se. 178 Hiradogeya-machi, Nagasaki-
shi. Certificate of Competency for Seamanship. C-class mate.
Clief Engine
ch gore 171 Inasa-cho, 1 chome, Nagasald-
shi. Cortif ate
nreamanship. 3rd Class engineer,
Coastal loter oat.
Date nd plare were event coaurred: 10 June 1949: 0900. Fishing
ground in Dasterm Sua f Crina
Detailed Account  Event
On 29 May 194.   ut Left Nagasak1 for the fishing ground,
accompenied by li  Son u-" On 1 Jne we started operation pre
sumably at the peint  5at 2725 N. After drawing net
four times cward so
 found many fishing boats there and con-
tinued operation arouni  The weather was continuously rainy and
the north wind tlew
The a was running high and the visibility was
very poor.
After 10 une, O00 when  were drawing net northeastward pre
sumably at the point Long. 12304 E/Lat. 27013'N, something like a naval
vessel suddenly became visibie cn the per bow. We hauled in net and
were about to sail eastward., wen we wer ordered to stop by a blank
short. The same vessel came to us in twelve or so minutes and ordored
us, two vessels. to accompany her with an intimidating fire, informing
that we would be fired at at on:e in case we should disobey their order.
At 10:00 we were ohliged to sail outhwestward, accompanying her. During
the trip we were under so strict .. vigilance that we were given intimidating
fire as soo. as we showed any deviation or lag whatever from our course.
We sailed at about 7 knots per hour. Later the weather improved
and the sea also became quiet, at 0300 of the next day 11 June we were
ordered to stop preswaably at the point Long. 122o03'E/Lat. 25040'N.
Around O300 several armed Chinese soldiers embarked in to inspect the
insides of our boat and infomed that our boat should be captured and all
the crew except chief mate and one engineer should be sent back to Japen
on board our fallow ship No. 3 Zenshin-Maru. About 1l.00 of the ame day
UNCLASSI FI ED

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.90)
Enclosure No. 3 to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 638, September 15,
1949。
-6-
we got on board the same vessel and started. We reached outside
Nagasaki Port on 15 June, 23.30.
By the way, the crew of our boat and the detained persons are
as follows:
1. Crew of our toat. (Omitted)
2. Detained crow of our beat.
Chief mater MATSUNCTo Chatese
Engineering Crews AMAnO Liy shi.
Tor Nagasaks . Lar Headgporters
Report on Sea disaster by MITSUMA Keigo.
Type end none of vessa
S S. N. 3 Zenshin-Maru.
Register no. r veasea. No. 62713.
Area of nevgam  t te eperation second class.
Groes tose 
Fort where vest be ne moaeke ehe, Amakusa gum, Kumamoto-ken.
Rind of engine -lesel engine.
Hominel kree pver 
Name and addee of perm to mom yessel belongss MOROTANT
Yoshitake,    Fgk 
Chief Mater u  78 Hiredoyeya maehd, Nagasaki-shi.
Certificate of Comperry for  pamanshap Class mate.
Chief Pgineer Mmsun botare 3 Asaha-ahe, 3 chomey Nagasaki-shi.
Certificate of Co ptury fos Seanan shup. and class Engineer, Coastal
Motor boat.
When and where  ent urred 10 June  49:0900. Fishing ground
in Eastern Sea ef Chore
Detail ed Account ct Even!
Together with our feilaw beat No. s  enshin maru we left Nagasaki
for the fishing ground on 29 Hay 1949, 090). On 1 June we started opera-
tion preswmably at the point Long. 124905 E/Lat. 27025'N. After drawing
net four times loward seuthwest ve found wany fishing boats there and
continued operatien around there The weather was continuously rainy
and the north wind blew. The sea was running high and the visibility
was very poor
After 10 June;
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 3 to Tokyo's
Despat ch No. 638, Sept ember 15,
1949。
-7
After 10 June; 0900 whe we were drawing net northeastward pre-
sumably. at the point Long. 123040 E/ Lat. 27013'N., something like a
navel vessel suddenly became visible on the port bow. We hauled in
net and were about to sail eastward. when we were ordered to stop by
a blank shot. The same vessel came to us in twelve or so minutes and
ordered us, two vessels. to accompany her with an intimidating fire,
informing that we should be fired at once in case we should dissbey
their order. At 10 0 we were cbliged to sail southwestward, accompany-
ing her. During the trip we were under so strict a vigilance tha': we
were given intimidating fires as soon as we showed any deviatic1r
lag whatever from our course.
We sailed at hout 7 mots per hour. Later, the weather iaproved and
the sea also becane quiet. At O3ou of the next day 11 June we rere
ordered to stop presumably at the point Long. 122003" E/ Lat. 25040'N.
Around O800 several armed Chinese soldiers embarked in our boat. On
inspcction of cur beat they nfiscated all the ship's documents and
fishing equipment as well as some personal belongings of our crew.
Further, they crdered that as No.  Zenshin-maru should be captured,
we should take all her erew except chief mate and an engineering crew
back to Japan Areerdingly  ght erew of the said boat joined us;
furthermere, sixteen crew ntimting chief mate of No. 5 Kasho maru which
was alse captu ed t  bears and we left the spet at 11c0 and reached
out side Hagasa ert n 5 sune 2. 0 (By the way, the crew or our
boat are as listed in the mmexed sheet ) (Omitted.)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. o38
dated September 15, 1949 frmm Office
of the United States ol vicel Adv ser
CCPY
for Japan, Tokyo, subge "Sinking of
of Japanese Fishing Vessel by Chinese
Patroi".
IMTCRHATION ON SHIPS DETAINED
KOREA
Name of
Retured
or
Not
Vessel
Tonnage Shipowner
Place
Date
Place of Vessel
Crew
Date
Detention
Vessel
Crew
Remarks
No. 1 KOHYU. 99.83
AADA
Unknowa 20 Fet 48 Unknown
Returned Returned
1948
Unknown
maru
Rokuo
No. 1 TENYO-
maru
75.80
Taiyo Fish
eries Fish
ang Group
Okbown 4 ker d8 Onknown
Returner Roturned
1948
Unkmown
No. 10 HISSHIN-
maru
Unknown Unknown
Unknown 12 war 48 Orksewn
hehorred Returned 17 Mar 48
17 Mar 48
MIZUHO-maru
80.12
Japan Fish- South
eries Co
of Balshuto
Ltd
Island 1t may us Vnanown
aobuoed sotarred 29 Jun 48
28 Jua 48
SoSUl-maru
88.02
Japan Fasb- Unknown 8 Jun v8 epo
Rouurned ket urned 8 Jan 49
Unknown
eries Co
Ltd
RIKOKU-maru
88.56
Japan Fishe Unknown 8 Jan 48 Mope
Returned Returned
8 Jan 49
Unknown
eries Co.
Itd.
No. 27 TAIYO-
Taiyo Fish- Unknown 17 Jan 48 Mopo
Returned Returned
8 Jan 49
Unknown
maru
93.00
eries Co.
Ltd.
No. 14 DAITO-
MORIGUCHI
Unknown 7 Feb 48 Unknown
Returned Returned
8 Jan 49
Unknown
maru
64。17
Yukio
No.15
DAITO-
MORIGUCHI
Unknown 7 Feb 48 Unknown
Returned Returned
8 Jan 49
Unknown
maru
64.17
Yukio
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.90)
Enclosure No. 4 to Tokyo's
-2-
Despatch No. 038, September 15 1949.
INFORIMATHOI ON SHTPS DETATNED (Continued)
KOREA (Continued)
Name c.
Returned or
Not
Vessel
Tonnage Shipowner
Place
bate
Flace of
Vessel
Crew
Date
Detention
Vessel
Crew
Remarks
No. 2 AURYO- 99.83
HADADA
20 R00 43 Radsu1
Returned Returned
S Jan 49
Unknown
maru
Rokuo
No. 21 MEIGEN
TOTRAWA
Waile sail
manu
93.00
motoji
ano owtb 14 way 8 nknow 
Returned Returned
8 Jan 49 Unknown
or Culebato
No. 6 Y
Umi Ocean
While saph
maru
Fisheries
1eg eouth 7 dan a0 Sakmoum ketuened weturned 12 Mar 49 12 Mar 49
Group
of Saisbuto
Island
No. 8 YoT.n
Omi Ocean
while sail
maru
Pierorres
115 80000
1  okom
 d 12 ar 49 12 mar 49
uroup
deland
NO. 7 KYOWA
maru
48.03
uranashi
vnknown
dcean Vish
eries droup
No. 2 TENYO
maru
75.80
Tenyo Fish
4 48
Saishuto Not reto'd Retn'd
Unknown
eries Co.
Island
Ltd.
No. 11 NISShIN-
Nichiro
akukoto-15 Mar 48
Grounded Not retn'd Retn'd 12 Mar 49 Unknown
maru
Fisheries
ura, Sai-
near Sai-
Co., Ltd.
shuto
shuto
Island
Island
UNCLASS IFIED

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclosure No. 4 to Tokyo's Despatch
30
No. 638, September 15, 1949.
INFCRMAT(ON ON SHIPS DETAINED (Continued)
KOREA (Continued)
Name of
Place of
Returned or Not
Vessel
Tonnage
Shipowner
Place
Date
Detention
Vessel
Crew
Date
Vessel
Crew
Remarks
KUMI
80.44
Japen
South of
14 May 48 Unknown
Not retn d Retn d
Unknown
maru
Fisheries
Saishuto
Co., Ltd.
Island
No.1 HEIWA
54.09
Heiwa
South of
32 Oat 48 Saiabu Port Not reta a Hetn d
27 Deo 48
Released
maru
Fisheries
Seishuto
Senshuto
C0.. Ltd.
Island
Tsland
No. 2 HEIWA
54.09
South of
20 Oos 48 Balshu Port, Not petn a Ratn'd.
27 Des 48
maru
Fisheries
Saismuto
Saisbuto
Co.. Ltd.
Island
Taland
No. CHIYO
75.00
E.124
e Deee othwes
Rotur ned
Returned
12 Mar 49
maru
Fisheries
N.35.25
Satsbua
Co.. Ltd.
Taland
Yamato cho
Shimoniseki
Shryeto
1axand
No. 12 RANRI-
65.00
Fuke Fish. Bek26. 35
29 Feb 49
Returned Returned
12 Mer 49
Captain died
maru
eries Co., N. 32.25
Ltd.
TAIHAN
32.00
MIZUNO=
Tsushima
3 My 49
Returned Not retn'd
maru
Nobuko.
Channel
Tottori
Pref.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosure No. 4 to Tokyo's Des petch
4
No. 638, September 15. 1949.
INFCFM TION ON SHIPS DETAINED (Continued)
SOVTET
Name of
Place of
Returned or Not
Vessel
Tonnage Shipomer Plece
Dase
Detention
Vessel
Crex
Date
Vessel
Grew
Remarks
MASAYOSHT
28.00
Uaknown
Vakoown
Palmose
00000
Returned
Retraed
Unknown
Unktown
maru
TOWA-mar
17.00
Unknova
099
Uckowa
Unknown
No.2
16.00
Unkoova
Paret Delend
Ar
Rebvroed
Rened
Unkgown
Unknown
ARNTTU
No.13
69.00
Unknewn
Raoe
Ree
Unknown
HAMADO
and Shibotan
maru
GYOU-a
60.00
Unlmown
oof Pavekn
Uuknown
No。16
KISSHO-meru 47.00
Unknown
Unknown
SHNET r 2.00
Unkaowe
thimowe
HOKUSHT-meru 12.00
Daknon
aown
Islend
No. 20 HAMADA
HAMAMOTO
sepposed 
Tower 
Reeree
Unknowe
Unkmown
meru
7.00
Kaich
tet boles 
My
Zembeketan
Trend
Kunishiri
Island
HIROSHI
8.56
SAWAGANT
Near Homatisaki 8 Jul 48 own
Returned
Returned
Uhlnown
Unknom
maru
Hiroshi
Suisho Island
No。30
12.27
IZUMI
Near Shihatsuto
HEIAN-maru
Katsuhei
Island
4  48
Unkmown
Returned
Returned
Unknown
Unknown
No. 11
10.91
HAMAYA
While sailing 8 Aug 48
Towed to
Returned
Returned
Unknown
Unknown
EBISU-maru
Kichijiro
for Shimai
Shumi-ji,
from off
Suishoto
Ochiai
Island
INCLASSIFIED

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.86)
Enclosure No. 4 to Tokyo's Despatch
5
No. 638, September 15. 1949.
INFORMAT OI ON SHIPS DETAINED (Continued)
SOVIEF (Continued)
Name of
Place o
Returned or Not
Vesael
Tonnage
Shipowner
Place
Date
Detention
Vessp
Deto
Vessel
Crew
Remarks
KAIFUKU
45.36
MINAMI
1 meuti e
Uoknowo
Untorown
to known
maru
Yukize
off Onnenoto.
Shmam.
39 Aug 8
ZENSEI-maru
8.27
KDE
Neer Moke-
26 Ag48
Yeec Suosbto
Returne Returned
Unknown
Uninown
Kyomi vsn mappo Jas
Tatand
SANROT ma 32.28
OTARE
 k
 8
tbkmown
Unknown
1a0
meppu Sat
SEIKO-maru
500
NEAMRA
029 C
Beaned e
th mowe
taknown
Seigire
Sh
owed
JHIYO (or
3.53
H
ff Onnenoto
Untsowe
Uninown
CHIE)
Kieht aro Shavermora
UME-mAro
4.89
INOTSUME
Un knowo
Unknown
Misuyos ouhes f
N 
No。23
16.50
TAIYO
 d
known
Unknown
SHINSEI-maru
Fis beraes
W
Co., Ltd.
HOYO-maru
55094
Japan Fiah-
608
Debesbed and
Returned
17 May 49
eries Co.
towed
Ltd.
17 May 49
SAkImaru
39.65
Tokai Kisen
9 Oot 48 Unknown
Returned
Fisheries
Co., Ltd.
No。 6
10.00
Unknown
Nokka-nappu
13 Out 48 Unknown
Returned Unknown
Unknown
Unknown
.SHINSEI-maru
Saki
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosure No. 4 to Tokyo's Despatch
-6
No. 638. September 15, 1949.
INFORMATION (N  HIPS DETAINED (Continued)
SOVIET (Continued)
Neme of
la:e of
Returned or Not
Tesael
Tonnage Shipowner
Place
Date
Detention
Vessel
Grew
Date
Veseel
Crew
Remarks
No. 8 HATTo-
77.00
SETO
Retarned
17 May 49
Unknown
maru
Fe124.45
No 45:15
No。8
77.00
YONRHURA
off e beta
7 M 49
Unknown
SOYO-maru
Hachirota
1o.6
Mear Bht
ShnsEI mau
10.77
TOYAMA
Ta and
Beturoe  ert
Takao
SEIKICHI-mara
28.00
HAMADA
Mateujito
No. 5 KOOU
TUmA
Neae BShot
maru
53.00
K
Lalend
No. 2 SERUN.
mknown
HAMADA
CORTONE
maru
Masavo
HOUU-m
12.00
off Onmemote
Detained by
Shtmar-mure
Soviet ship
KANAICHI-maru
4000
0f Omremeto
1
Detained by
Shiman-mura
Soviet ship
HAKKO-maru
58.83
Nitto
Near Ni gorock, 30 May 
Uaktow
Informed by
Fisheriee
southeast of
Japanese fishing
Co.. Ltd.
Nishinotoro-
vessel intercept
Sakd, Sakhalin.
ing radio.
HINODE-maru
24014
Nichiro
Near Ni Jorock, 30 May 49
Inknown
Informed by Jap
Fisheries
southeast of
anese fishing
vessel intereept
Co., Ltd.
Nishinotoro-
Saki. Sakhalin
ing radio.
TAIHO-maru
28.78
SHIRASE
30 May 49
Unknown
Goro
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 4 to Tokyo's Despatch
-7-
No. 638, September 15, 1949.
INFORMITI N ON SHIPS DETAINED (Continued)
CHINA (FORMOSA included)
Name of
Returned or Not
Date
Vessel
Tonnage
Shipowner
Place
Date
flace of
Vessel
Crew
Vessel
Crew
Remarks
Detention
MIRD-meru
99.26
Japan Fisheries
E.125.15
12 May 49
Reigan Island
Returnel
Returned
3 Jun 49 3 Jun 49 Escaped and
Co., Ltd. Tobeta No 32.30
returned
No。 3
MOROTANI-
E.123.48
10 Jun 49
Unknown
Returned
Returned
15 Jun 49 15 Jun 49 Seized by
ZENSHIN-maru 66.20
Yoshitake
N. 27.12
Chinese
warsh ip
No. 1
ASHIHARA
Unknown
Unknown
Chinese Naval Not returned Returned
Unknown
TOKUSHI-maru 63.24
Teijiro
Base
No. 2
TOKUSEI-maru 63.24
ASHIHARA
Unknown
Unknown
Chinese Nava Not returned Returned
15 Jun 49 Unknown
Teijiro
Base
No.21
UNZEN-maru
99.00
Kawanami
Near Shuzen
30 Mey 49 Shanghai
Sunk
Industrial Co.,
Island
Ltd.
No. 22
UNZEN-maru - 99.00
Kawanami In-
Near Shuzen
30 May 49 Shanghai
Not returned
Returned
15 Jun 49 Unknown
dustrial Co.,Ltd.Island
No。 11
85.68
Fukugyo Fish
E.124.0
20 Oct 48 Unknown
Not returned Not returned
HIRUKO-maru
eries Co.. Ltd.
No 29.20
missing
TokAI-maru
99.26
Japan Fisheries
E.125.15
12 May 49 Supposed
Not returned Not returned
Co., Ltd. Tobata N. 29.20
Reizan Island
No。 5
66.20
MOROTANI
E.123.48
10 Jun 49 Unknown
Not returned Returned
Seized by
ZENSHIN-maru
Yoshitake
No 27.15
Chinese war-
ship. Captain
not returmed.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 4 to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 636, September 15, 1949.
-8-
INFORMATIO.: CN SHIPS DETAINED (Continued)
CHINA (FORMOSA included) (Continued)
Name of
Place of
Returned or Not
Vessel
Tonnage Shipower
Pce
Date
Detention
Vessel
Crew
Date
Vessel
Crew
Remarks
No.5
Kawanami
E.123.48
10 Jun 49
Unknown
Not returned Returned
3 engineer
KOSHIO-maru 277.08
Industrial Co.,N. 27.15
men bers
Ltd.
not returned
No. 11
85.68
Koyo Fisheries Unknown
Unknown
Kirin Port
Agrounded
Returned
Unknown
KOYO-maru
Co., Ltd.
outside the
No. 2
62.11
KUSAKA-
Southweat
29 Aug 48 Military
port
TOKIWA-maru
Jotaro
Island
Government,
Returned
Returned
9 Mar 49 9 Mar 49
Southwest
Island
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
DCIR S:F
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
RESTRICTED
TO
: Dr. Chapman and Mr. Flory - U/FW
DATE:September 17, 1948
Mr. Barnett - OE
FROM : Mr. E. Castleman - U/FW
SUBJECT: Japanese fishing - FEC
9/17/48
Dr. Koo of the Chinese Embassy called late Friday afternoon
and stated that he would like to set up a meeting of the FEC Fisheries
894.628/9-1749
subcommittee during the week of the 20th. Mr. Castleman informed
Dr. Koo that the final United States instructions were not as yet
aveilable and that it would, therefore, appear preferable to await
such instructions prior to holding the next Fisheries Committee
meeting. Dr. Koo said that he was rather anxious to press forward
on this matter, and wondered whether the committee might meet during
the week of the 20th to discuss aspects of the problem other than
the area, which is the basic point upon which instructions are being
obtained. Mr. Castleman said that he would discuss the matter with
other interested officers of the Department and telephone Dr. Koo
on Monday.
Monday, September 20, 1948.
Ir. Castleman telephoned Lir. Barnett of the Department on Monday
and informed him of the conversation held with Dr. Koo on Friday.
It was agreed that since the question of area was the basic point
of difference and since other related questions could not be resolved
until agreement was reached on area, no useful purrose would be served
in holding another subcommittee meeting until the United States
instructions were ready.
Hr. Castleman telephoned Dr. Koo on Monday and suggested that the
subcommittee not meet again until the United States instructions were
available, since definitive positions on area would be necessary before
further constructive discussion could be had on this problem. Dr. Koo
agreed and asked if United States instructi ons would be ready shortly.
hr. Castleman stated that he could not indicate an exact time but that
this Government was pressing forward as rapidly as possible in the
preparation of instructions, and that he would inform Dr. Koo as soon
as instructions were available. Dr. Koo agreed to delay the next
subcommittee meeting until he had been informed that the United States
instructions were ready, unless pressure was brought to bear by other
members of the committee. Mr. Castleman asked Dr. Koo to let him know
of any such pressure, and Dr. Koo agreed to do so.
FILED
S
H
4
9
R9。
U/FW:ECastleman:lrb
9.6

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
C ONF IDENT IAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: September 23, 1949
SUBJECT:
Inter-Agency Meeting re FEC Fishing Paper.
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. Hamilton-FE
Lt. Colonel Hendrick-Army
General Snow-L
Mr. Castleman-U/FW
Mr. Barnett-OFD
Mr. Moseley-NA
Mr. Blakeslee-FEC
COPIES TO:
U/FW Files
94.428
1—1493
A meeting was held in the office of Mr. Hamilton (FE)
on September 23, 1949 to discuss United States plans
relative to the fishing paper under consideration at
the Far Eastern Commission.
The first item discussed was whether any modifi-
cation would be sought with regard to current United
States instructions to the United States FEC Delegatior
6
or whether United States should retain in substance
these instructicns. After discussion, it was agreed
2
that the United States would not modify the substarce
le
of the current instruction.
4t
A discussion was then held on whether the United
States might seek to obtain favorable wtes from as
many of the other delegations as possible, although it
is realized that the United States position apparently
will not have majority support. Mr. Blakeslee indicated
that Canada was willing to support the United States
position if the United States was prepared to inform
the Canadians that the United States and SCAP were in
agreement on the position taken in preliminary treaty
negotiations, namely that Japanese vessels would not
1962
m
fish within 15o miles of the coasts of Canada and the
United States. It was suggested that since this treaty
is now being considered, the United States might offer
Canada
C ONF IDENT IAL

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENT IAL
-2-
Canada such assurances. It was agreed that it would
be unwise to offer such assurances at the moment since
historic United States position relative to freedom of
the high seas outside three nautical miles remains
United States position. This position has not been
altered by the Presidential Proclamation. However,
it was suggested that should we offer the Canadians
assurances that the Japanese fishermen would not come
within 150 miles of the Canadian coast based only upon
the draft treaty and the Sanaac Agreement that any
modification of the Sanaac position or failure to obtain
unanimity of opinion with regard to the treaty within the
United States, and any subsequent fishing by Japan within
150 miles of the Canadian coast might be considered by
the Canadians as an American breach of faith. On the
other hand, should we inform the Canadians that we could
give no assurances that the Japanese would not fish within
150 miles of the Canadian coast, this might very well
prejudice treaty negotiations. In view of the discussion,
it was agreed that no comment would be made to the Canadians
at the moment despite the fact that this might cause
Canadian opposition to the United States position at FEC.
Mr. Blakeslee indicated that the Australian delegation
would be willing to support the United States position
with a minor language modification in 2b of the current
United States language, namely substituting "consult
with a view" for "attempt to obtain". It was agreed
that should the Australian delegation propose this amend-
ment the United States could concur.
Mr. Moseley stated that the Chinese delegation had
charged the United States with a reversal of position with
regard to a contraction of the area moving the westerly
line further from the Chinese coast. Mr. Moseley was
provided the following information for reply: that the
United States delegation at the FEC had consistently
opposed the Chinese suggestion of the contraction of the
area and opposed the paper containing the Chinese amend-
ment being sent to the Steering Committee; also that the
indication given by the United States representative on
the Steering Committee that the United States would accept
the paper with certain modifications not including a
modification of the Chinese amendment was an inadvertent
error on the part of this Government.
Mr. Moseley
CONF IDENT IAL

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.93)
CONF IDENT IAL
-3-
Mr. Moseley also stated that the USSR had inquired
as to whether SCAP had expanded the area recently and
if so, on what authority. Mr. Castleman was requested
to prepare a reply to the USSR.
U/FW:ECastleman:bb
M
CONF IDENT IAL

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
U/FWFISHERIES
OF THE
OCT 6 1949
FILE-WEL
United States Political Adviser
AND WILDLIFE
for Japan
REC 'D
Tokyo, September 23, 194,.
SEPT 30
No. 665
ACTION
X
CONFIDENTIAL
U/FI ENC
INFO
FR
DCR
FE ENC
Subject:
Enlargement of Authorized Jepanese Fishing
894.628/9-2349
OLI ENC
Area (SCAPIN 2046).
L ENC
UNA
ITP
FISH & W. LIFE
The Honorable
C
Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I heve the honor to transmit to the Depai tment a
1/
copy of a General Headquarters memorandum to the Japa
nese Government (SCAPIN 2046), dated Septe ben 19, 1949,
concerning the area authorized for Japanese fishing and
whaling.
SCAPIN 2046 res01n4s S0API: 1033 f Ju 22 1946,
by which the authorized fishing arer was ol iginally es-
tablished, and SCAPI. 1033/1 of Dece ber -3, 948, by
which the boundery of the fishing aree in the aters
between Hokkaido and the Habomai Islends was e ac
curately defined. By the new memorsndum to the Japenese
Government, the author ized fishing erea is extended east-
ward from 1650 east longitude to 1800 east longitude be-
tween 240 and 400 north latitude. In allition Tapanese
vessels operating within the fishing aree are hew per-
mitted to approach to within three miles of any land area
not under the present &dministration of the Japanese Gov-
ernment lying within the authorized fishing ares. Under
SCAPIN 1o33 Japanese vessels were not permitted to approach
closer than twelve miles to any non-Japanese territory with-
in the fishing area. The only land areas presently affected
by the change from a twelve- to a three-mile limitation are
the Ryukyu and Bonin Islands.
In a statement to the press on September 21, r. W. .
HERRINGTON, Acting Chief of the Natural Resources cction,
said that the extension of the aree and the reduction of
the twelve-mile to a three-mile limitation were authorized
"in recognition of the effective work being done by the
Japanese Government and fishing7 industry to control vio-
lations and over-fishing". The Natural Resources Section
NC
estimetes
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION COP
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF ACTIÓN TAKEN.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No.665,
dated September 23, 1949.
estimates that the new waters added to the fishing area
will produce between 60 and 70 million pounds of fish an-
nually, principally albacore and tuna. While this in-
crease represents only a small percentage of Japan's an-
nual catch, estimated at seven billion pounds, tuna and
albacore are classified as luxury fish which not only
bring high prices in the domestic market but are also
suited for export.
Mr. Herrington also indicated in his statement to
the press that patrol craft of the newly-established
Fisheries Inspection Fleet will patrol the new area.
He also revealed that 33 Japanese fishing vessels have
been seized by Chinese patrols and that two heve been
sunk, while at least ten Japanese craft have been seized
by Soviet patrols. Mr. Herrington further stated that
some of the Japanese vessels confiscated by the Chinese
were within the limits of the authorized fishing area at
the time of seizure (this Mission's despatches no. 553
of August 13, no. 573 of August 23, and no. 638 or Septem-
ber 15, 1949).
874.628
The reduotion of the twelve-mile limitation to three 1349
miles is based in part upon the neoessity to bring Japa-
conformity with internationally accepted principles and
The twelve-mile limitation was originally imposed in
L
SCAPIN l033 primarilv as a security measure, the need for
DLI
which is considered no longer to exist. Moveover, the
twelve mile limit as prescribed by SCAPIN l033 would have 
constituted a serious obstacle in the event it is decided
to extend the fishing area in the Hokkaido-Kuril-Habomai
area (this Mission's despatoh no. 594 of August 29, 1949).
Japanese reaotion to extension of the authorized
2/
fishing area has been most favorable. Five copies of
editorial comment from the Nippon Times of September 23
are enclosed. This editorial especially notes that Gen-
eral Headquarters had previously in June 1949 rejected
a Japanese request for enlargement of the fishing area.
The present action by General Headquarters is, therefore,
interpreted as recognition of the efforts being made by
the Japanese Government and the fishing industry to pre-
vent violations of the fishing area by Japanese fisher
men and to enforce a sound conservation program which
will prevent over-exploitation of the authorized fish-
ing grounds.
Respectfully yours,
Wr. Sebale
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 665
dated September 23, 1949.
--3-
Enclosures: Clcr
1。
Copy of a General Head-
querters memorandum to
the Japanese Government
(S0APIN 2046). dated
September 19, 1949.
2。
Five copies of an edi-
torial comment from the
Nippon Times of Septem-
ber 23, 1949.
S 522.8
CNSpinks:gmd
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No.
65 deted September 23, 1949,
from the United States Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Enlargement of Authorized
Japanese Fishing Area (SCAPIN
CONFIDENTIAL
2046)。
( C O P Y)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 800. 217(22 Jun 46)NR
19 September 1949
SCAPIN 2046
MEMORANDUM FOR:
THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Area Authorized for Japanese Fishing and
Whaling
1. References:
a. Memorandum from Generel Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers to Japanese Government,
AG 800 217(22 Jun 46)NR, SCAPIN 1033, sub ject as above. 22
June 1946.
b. Memorandum from General Headquarters. Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers to Japanese Government,
AG 800. 217(22 Jun 46)NR, SCAPIN 1033/1. subject as ebove,
23 December 1948.
2. Effective this date the memoranda referred to above
erescinded.
3. Effective this date and until further not ce Japa-
nese fishing, whaling and similar operations ere authcrized
within the area bounded as follows: From a point midway
between Nosappu Misaki and Kaigara Jima at approxii ately
43023'14" North Latitude, 145050:30" East Longitude to 430
North Latitude 146030: East Longitude, thence to so North
Latitude. 1650 East Longitude, thence south along 65th
Meridian to 400 North Letitude, 1650 East Longitud, thence
east to 1800 East Longitude and 400 North Latitude, thence
south along the 180th Meridian to 240 North Levitude, thence
west along the 24th Parallel to 1230 East Longitude, thence
north to 26o North Latitude, 1230 East Longitude, thence to
32030 North Latitude 1: East Longitude, thence to 330
North Latitude, 127040 East Longitude, thence to 400 North
Latitude 1350 East Longitude; to 45030 North Latitude. 1400
East Longitude, thence east to 45030 North Latitude, 1450
East
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.94)
Enolosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
Despatoh No. 665 dated
September 23, 1949.
2
East Longitude rounding Soya Nisaki at a distafoe of.
three (3) miles from shore; south along 145th Meridta
to a point three (3) miles off the coast of Hokkaide
thence along a line three (3) miles off the coast of
Hokkaido rounding Shiretoko Saki and passing through
the Nemuro Kaikyo to a point 43 26 17" North Latitude
145048 03" East Longitude, thenoe in a southeester1y
direction to the starting point midway between Nosepph
Miseki and Kaigara Jima.
4. Authorizetion in paragraph 3 above 1s subject
to the provision that Japanese vessels will not approach
closer then three (3) miles to uny 1and area not under
the present administration of the Jupenese Soverr mont
within the authorized area Personnei from sucn vesaels
will not land on any such land areas, por have  entact
with any iihabitants thereof, excert In cases of sericus
emergency and provided permisslon tc entcr is btained
from locel suthority prler to such energensy entry.
5' The present authorisation does nt astut ish
a precedent for any further extenslor of suthor ned
fishing aress.
6. The present euthorization is  ea eression
of allied pollcy relative to ultimete dst:rairction of
narional jurisdiction internat!nal hundrie  fish.
ing rights in the area concerned or in uny othar area.
FOR THE SUHRELE COTANDER
r/A Rehe
for
R. LEV
Celonci, AGD
Ad jutant áeneral
(COPY)
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 665
dated september 23, 1949, from the
United States Political Adviser for
Tepan, moky), on the subject "En-
lcrgen ent of Authorized Japanese
CONFIDENTIAL
Fishing Area (SCAPIN 2C46).
Japanese fishermen, like
Nippon Times
fishermen the world over, are
tive that the Japanese flsher-
Published by
known for their rough and
men demonstrate they
The Nippon Times, Ltd.
ready character. It was pre
make good neighbors upon the
KIYOSHI TOGASAKI, President
cisely this characteristic which
high seas."
TOKYO, FRIDAY, SEPT. 23, 1949
enabled the fishing industry to
The expansion of the fishing
make rapid progress and to
grounds, must thus be consider-
Expansion of Fishing
attain a postwar stage of re-
ed another test to determine
covery estimated to be about
whether or not Japan is worthy
Grounds
85 per cent of the prewar
of international trust. There
period within the aythorized
is thus an even greater need
The SCAP authorization for
waters. But this rough and
now than ever before for the
a 30 per cent expansion of the
ready spirit is no excuse for
Japanese Government and the
nation's present fishing grounds
the past practice of systematic
fishing industry to prohibit all
is highly welcomed by the
and deliberate poaching in
illegal practices. The nation's
Japanese people to say the
waters beyond the prescribed
good name and its qualification
least. It means more food for
"MacArthur Line." It is to the
to be included among the
the Japanese table as well as
credit of the Government and
family of nations depend upon
an added supply of marine
the sane and intelligent ele-
the continued success of that
products for shipment abroad.
ments within the fishing in-
program.
It will serve' the dual purpose
dustry that these short-sighted
But the ideal, of course,
of reducing Japan's depen-
and stupid practices by the
would be to eliminate the need
dence upon expensive food im-
unscrupulous fishermen have
for the constant patrolling of
ports at the expense of the
been curbed. It should not
the fishing grounds and the
American taxpayers and of
require much brains to figure
over-seeing of fishing fleets.
bringing in much-needed for-
out. that the 60 to 70 million
Positive steps in that direction
eign exchange from the export
pounds of fish expected during
besides the honest respect of
of marine products.
the first year from the new
the fishermen for the regula-
tions,, should include the
But the permission to ex-
official fishing grounds will
modernization of fishing tech-
pand Japanese fishing grounds
more than compensate for the
nique, the renewal of worn
is welcome for yet another
past practice of furtive poach.
reason. This was pointed out
ing. By strict observance of
equipment, the final clearing
by W. C. Herrington, Acting-
the regulations during the past
up of the fishing rights prob-
Chief of the Natural Resources
few months, the gain to the
lem, the complete elimination
Section, in announcing the
nation as a whole has been
of the feudal boss system, and
new SCAP directive. He said
tremendous.
the provision of adequate
funds for the fishing industry
that the relaxation of controls.
But as Mr Herrington has
to execute
the
necessary
imposed by General MacArthur
warned, future developments
in 1946, was authorized "in re-
concerning the further relaxa-
changes.
cognition of the effective work
tion of restrictions on Japanese
being done by the Japanese
fishing activities will depend
Government and industry to
upon whether or not Japanese
control violations and over.
fishermen will,: continue to re-
fishing."
spect national and international
It was in mid-June this year
fishing agreements and regula
that the Natural Resourges
tions. Japan's prewar reputa
Section, in turning down
tion for violating international
Japanese, requests for the ex-
agreements was notorious. . The
pansion of authorized fishing
recent good conduct has not as
grounds, pointed out the exis-
yet erased all the ill-feeling
tence of the practices of violat-
created before the war. Evea
ing fisheries boundaries and of
greater efforts are thus essen-
over-exploiting existing aqua-
tial before the world will re-
tic resources. Since then the
cognize willingly the allowing
Government and the industry
of freer access to more exten-
itself cracked down hard on
sive fishing grounds to Japa.
all violators of-fishing regula-
nese fishermen. "It. is impera
tions and agreements. It is
gratifying to note that these
sincere efforts have achieved
results so swiftly and have
gained the recognition of SCAP
authorities so-promptly.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
Ss/CR
D/CR
beetionA
U/FW - FISHERIESUnited States Political Adviser
894.628/9-2749
To NA for acton 10/31/49
for Japan
OCT184
RECD
Tokyo, September 27, 1949.
OCT 13
AND WILDLIFE
No。 675
ACTION
U/FW
SECRET (For Department Use Only)
INFO
DCR
FE
L
Subject:
United States Naval Patrol in East China Sea
OLI
to Prevent Chinese Seizures Japanese Fishing
Boats.
m
DIION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
006611
Secretary of State,
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
894.62
With reference to this Mission's despatch no. 553
of August 13, 1949, concerning seizures of Japanese
fishing boats by Chinese patrols, I have the honor to
invite the Department's attention to a proposal made
by the Natural Resources Section of General Headquarters
628/9-2749
that a United States naval patrol be established in the
East China Sea for the purpose of preventing further
seizures of Japanese vessels.
When this suggestion was first broached by the
Netural Resources Section, this Mission in its capacity
of Diplomatic Section, General Headquarters, pointed
out that the establishment of a regular naval patrol
had certain political implications, including the risk
SECRET FILEPR 6 1950
of possible incidents, and at the same time might raise
t question of establishing similar patrols to prevent
Soviet and possibly other seizures of Japanese fishing
vessels. It was suggested by this Mission that, as an
alternative measure, General Headquarters request the
Department to approach the Chinese Government directly
on this matter in an effort to secure proper recogni-
tion of SCAP as the sole authority governing Japanese
activities on the high seas (this Mission's despatch
no. 553 already cited).
FILED
While this Mission did not concur in the proposed
request for a naval patrol, a SCAP radio to the Depart-
ment of the Army (C-52158), August 27, 1949, approved
by the Chief of Staff, requested that the Department be
approached with respect to taking the matter up directly
with the Chinese Government, and, additionally, the De-
partment of the Army was requested to ask the Joint
Chiefs
XR
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 675,
September 27, 1949.
- 2 -
Chiefs of Steff to direct the Commander of the 7th Task
Fleet to furnish whatever assistance he could render
SCAP to prevent such seizures. A Department of the Army
radio to SCAP (W-93752), September 20, stated that a
memorandum was being prepared requesting the Department
to take the matter up directly with the Chinese Govern-
ment but asked SCAP whet action had already been taken
against Chinese offenses, to what extent naval forces
under the Commander Naval Forces Far East are being u-
tilized. and what are the intended operations if assist-
ence is to be rendered by the 7th Task Fleet.
The Natural Resources Section prepared an answer to
the Department of the Army's W-93752 which stated in sub-
stance that diplomatic protests have been made to the
Chinese Mission in Japan but have so far been ineffective,
that naval forces under the Commander Naval Forces Far
East have not been used because present commitments of
naval units, involving the Tsushima patrol and other in-
termittent patrols as well as training, precluded the es-
tablishment of & special patrol to prevent seizures of
Japanese fishing boats, and that it is proposed that the
7th Task Fleet establish a regular naval patrol in the
East China See between 260 north latitude and 32030'
north latitude.
This Mission in its capacity of Diplomatic Section
did not concur in this proposed radio.  In a communica-
tion to the Natural Resources Section, September 10, it
was again pointed out that this Mission believed a regu-
lar naval patrol might have serious political consequences
and possibly complicate the current closure of the China
coast and relations wit the Chinese National Government.
In view of these considerations, it was suggested that
the proposed radio indicate that this Mission did not
concur in the esteblishment of a reguler naval patrol un-
less the proposal wes made subject to approval by the De-
partment.
Both the Naturel Resources Section and the G-3 Sec-
tion of General Headquarters disagreed with this Mission's
position, and the matter was referred to the Chief of
Staff for decision on September 16. A copy of this com-
munication is enclosed. The Chief of Staff approved the
radio as proposed by the Natural Resources Section and it
was despatched to the Department of the Army on September
19 (CX-52581).
While full details are not yet available to this
Mission, SCAP's first radio to the Department of the Army
on the subject (C-52158) apparently brought a decision to
undertake & trial patrol operation in the East China Sea
by the 7th Task Fleet. On September 20 the Commander of
the 7th Task Fleet directed the nomination and prepara-
tion of one destroyer for patrol operations over a ten-
day
SECRET

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 675,
September 27, 1949.
day period in the East China Sea between the China coast
and southern Kyushu. At the same time, Commander Naval
Forces Far East was requested to assist in this patrol
operation. The operation order for this ten-day patrol
directs that any attempted violation of Japanese fishing
vessels by any ship either inside or outside the author-
ized fishing area is to be considered. an act of piracy
and patrol vessels may use force if necessary in protect-
ing Japanese shipping. Any offending vessels apprehended
ere to be escorted to Sasebo. Commander Naval Forces Far
East agreed to participate-in this action, and Commander
of the 7th Task Fleet was so advised by radio on September
21。
Respectfülly yours,
irixtace
W. J. Sebald
att
Enclosure:
Copy of communioation to
Chief of Staff dated
September 16, 1949.
522.8
CNSpinks:gmd
833
SECRET

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 675
dated September 27, 1949, from
the Office of the United States
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "United
States Naval Patrol in East China
Sea to Prevent Chinese Seizures
SECRET
Japanese Fishing Boats".
(C OP Y)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
CHECK SHEET
Capt Wm C. Murphy, 26-8491
HGS/WCH/WCM/jm
File No: NR 432.1 (16 SEP 1949)F1
Subject:
Proposed Radio to DA Concerning Naval Patrol
in East China Sea
From: NR
To: CS
Date: 16 Sep 49
1. Attention is invited to proposed radio message
to DA in reply to DA message W 93752, concerning establish-
ment of a Naval patrol in the East China. Sea, and to G-3
and DS comments relative thereto, attached as inclosures.
2. SCAP radio message to DA, C-52158, outlined the
situation that exists relative to seizures of Japanese
fishing vessels- in the East China Sea, and requested DA
to esk State Dept to protest to Chinese Government. Radio
also requested that DA ask JCS to direct Commander, 7th
Task Fleet to furnish whatever assistance he could render
SCAP to prevent seizures.
3. DA radio message to SCAP W 93752, states that DA
is preparing a memorandum to State Dept requesting their
assistance, and requests specific information regarding
measures to prevent additional seizures. Substantially,
information requested is (1) what action has been taken
against Chinese offenders, (2) to what extent Naval forces
under CINCFE are being utilized, and (3) what are intended
operations if assistance is rendered by 7th Task Fleet.
4. Proposed reply to DA queries states thet (1) diplo~
metic protests have been made through Chinese Mission in
Tokyo but have been ineffective, (2) Naval forces under
CINCFE have not been used because present commitments of
Navel units, which involve Tsushima patrol and other inter-
mittent patrols in addition to required training, precludes
establishment of a special Naval patrol to prevent seizures,
and (3) that it is proposed the 7th Task Fleet establish a
regular Naval patrol in the East China Sea between 26oN and
32030N。
5. Comments
SECRET

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
despatch no. 675 dated
September 27, 1949.
5. Comments of G-3 and DS, relative to the proposed
radio message, are substantially as follows:
a. DS reiterates their non-concurrence in the
establishment of a Naval patrol in the East China Sea and
proposes that the following be included in the proposed
message: "USPOLAD does not concur in establishment of
regular US Neval patrol for purpose of preventing illegal
seizures of Japanese fishing vessels unless such proposal
is made subject to approval by Department of State."
b. G-3 does not ag ee with DS proposal because
it is felt that, "SCAP is monally obligeted to insure the
safety of the Japanese on the high seas." G-3 concurs in
R proposal reply subject to the exception that instead
of requesting a regular patrol the message be altered, "to
reflect a desire for sweeps incident to normal routine op-
erations through the East China Sea between 260N and 32030
N." Further, G-3 states that, "It is not within COMNAVFE's.
capabilities to undertake this task, therefore outside as-
sistance must be enlisted."
6. MR believes that inclusion of statement proposed
by DS would materially weaken the SCAP position taken in
the original message requesting assistance, and would de-
lay whatever assistance might be forthcoming. Furthermore,
it is believed that JCS will discuss this matter with State
Department prior to committing 7th Task Fleet to additional
duties related to China.
7. NR does not agree with G-3 that the proposal should
be altered to request only patrols incident to normal rou-
tine operations. NR believes that SCAP should request the
full assistance required for effective action in preventing
seizures. If JCS finds it impossible for 7th Task Fleet to
supply assistance requested, then lesser assistance similar
to that suggested by G-3 could be considered.
8. NR recommends that proposed radio message in reply
to DA message W 93752, be approved as drafted.
3 Incls
1. Draft msg w/2 ref msga
2。
C/N, DS to NR, DS comments
C/N, G-3 to NR, G-3 comments
- - - - H.G.S。
( C O P Y)
SECRET

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.91)
OCT141948
UNCLSSIELQ
0. 442
To the
Orficer in Charge of the American Missicn,
Lindon.
The Secre ary of state tranamite herewith a copy of a report
from the Japanese Ccvernment to General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the lied Powers, Tokye, Japan coneeraing laetating
whales taken by the Japanese 1948-49 Antarlie whalime coeratien.
894.628/10-1449
Should no objection be perceived, it is reqwwelo. t the
re crt te transmitted to the Secretary, International Whaling Commis-
sion, c/o Fisheries Department, St. Stephens Houes, Victoria Embank-
ment, Mestminster, Lonion, S.. 1, England.
Enclosures
Copy of report M..F. Mo. 114-'49
from the Japanese Covernment to
Ganeral Headquartere of the Suprome
Commander for Lhe llied Posers dated
15 July, 1949.
A true copy of
the signed orig-
Inal
cc
CSA
RAT
TRTRECOOkeTIw
0/m
201
NA
10-4-49
WFL
UNCLAGSIPIED

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.91)
COPY
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
Japanese Government
TO:
GENAL D RTERS OF THE SO COLLANDER
FOR THT LLTED FOWERS
BUbJhGT: Report on 1 retating Vh les Tuken by 1948-49
mtarotic heline Operution.
.11449
15 July, 1949
1. olerlose ure:
.800.17 (23 N. 48) 80IN (1942).
Subject: Whalins Industr.
o. winlstry of rioulture d Porestry emorandum number
8y-'49, datod 27 ay 1 4, Sub jeot: nport on the Japanese Whaling
in che Antarctic in 1945-1349 Leason.
2. The Japudese Governmsnt wishes to subait a report oa the above
subject as follows:
Durine the 1948-49 season in the ntarctic whaling operation
three lactatins whales were killed. The pesyonsible gunners were
pald no bonus for those whalee, wnd on 30 april 1549 they were
arralgned at the Tokyo District rosecutor'e Ofrice, and an in-
vestigation was conduoted.
On 29 June the Japanese Covernment wus iven notice by the
seld frosecutor's Ofrice to the effect that since insufficient
evideace existed to rove that the laotatins whales were accom-
panied by oalves the cases had been disaissed.
FOR THE MINISTER
Official in Cherge
Maeda
Deep Sea Fisheries Secticn
/s/ B. Katayanagi
Fishcries Agency
/t/ S. Katayanag1
Vice-Minister of Agriculture and Forestry
Ince12
COPY

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.96)
Me. J. R. Kennsdy, Division of Foreign Reporting
Servioss, Department of Stato
26Sp199
Aeting Chief, Far Rastern Affairs Group, Office,
Under Seeretary, Department of the Army
Report on lactating whales taken by Japanese 1948-49 Antamtie
whaling operation
1. The attached copies of a report from the Japanese Government to General
at the request of General Headquarters. It is requested that one copy be trame-
mitted to the Secretary, Irternational Whaling Commission, c/o Fisheries Department,
St. Stephens House, Victoria Embankment, Westminiattm, London, S.W. 1, England.
2. Tour cooperation in this matter is appreciated.
Inal.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Vielation Cases of the International whaling
Regulations
During the Antarotic Whaling (1948-1949), there occurred the
following suspeoted cases of violation of the International
Whaling Regulations:
(1) Summary of the Cases:
Name of
Company
Mother Ship
Contents of cases
Taiyo Gyogyo
Nisshin Maru No. 1 Taking of a laotating fin whale
Nippon Suisan
Hashidate Maru
Taking of a lactating blue whale
do
do
do
(2) Detailed Desoription of Whales Taken:
Serial No.
Date
Date
Name of Cateher of Whale Spscies Length(f) Taken
Treated
Seki Maru No.3
625
fin whale
72
Feb.13,14:00 Feb.13,16:00
Shonan Maru No.11 562
blue whale
83
Mar.1, 9:50 Mar.1, 12:15
Shonan Maru No.8 701
blue whale
81
Mar.16,12:30 Mar.17, 0:25
(3) Meamures taken by the Japanese Government for the cases:
(a) The bonus of the orew on board the catoher boats involved
for the whales taken was prohibited to be paid.
(b) The gunners were arraignedhet the Tokyo Distriet Proseouter's
Offioe on April 30, 1949, for suapeeted violation of the
International whaling Regulations.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
Violators
involved
Position
Catoher Boat
Gunner
Date
(around)
680478
Sok1 Maru No.3
Takeo Kawahara February 13,1949
1050
700 49* S
Bhonan Maru No.ll Goro Tanaka
Maroh 1, 1949
1770 18 W
690 20 s
Bhonan Maru No.8 Shuhei Miyata Maroh 16, 1949
1760 18' W
Thiokness of Blubber Mammery Gland
Remarks
neek : dorsal (cm):maximum: Coler
thiokness Reddi- At the time of disseetion, apprex-
5.0
5.0
9.0 sh Yellow imately 6 litres of milk ran out.
Reddish
At the time of dissection, approx-
8.0
9.0
23.0
Yellow
imately 10 litres of milk ran out.
Reddish
At the time of dissection, apprex-
12.0
13.0
16.0
Yellow
mately 1 litre of milk ran out.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.97)
FORM DS-322
7-1-48
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
Department of State
1. P.M.
Charge Department I
CONTROL
Charge to
CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION
3847
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
OCT 17 1949
Tokyo,
FOR DCIT USE ONLY
511
Info: Army Chief of Staff,
For Acting Political Adviser.
SUBJ is Summary Steering COLITE IMTG, OCT 11, 1949.
894.628/10-1749
Fishing and Aquatic Industries in JAP (SC 271/30)
UK member proposed to amend US amendment to PARA 2b, so that sentence
asserts
after words QTE FEC UNQTE in 5th line WLD read as FOLs: QTE
concern in respect to fishing or other commercial aquatic activities SCAP
vill consult with such country with a view to reaching an agreement reasonably
calculatod to protect that country's legitimate interest and to benefit the
89
JAP ECON UNQTE. US, CANAD, FR, Indian,mt AUSTRAL and NZ members indicated
they CLD accept UK amendment. PHIL member reserved his position.
S
USSR member asked to have his amendment to PARA 2b reconsidered. CHI
member thought his DEL CID accept UK amendment to PARA 2b if PARA 2a were
revised to read as it appeared in SC-271/22 and proposed an amendment to
PARA 2a to that effect. US member indicated his opposition to such amendment.
CHI member raised question of inspection vessels proceeding within 10
N
miles of coast of any Fo country. SUBJ referred to working COMITE.
FOL is summary FEC MTG, OCT 13, 1949.
DESIRED
Level oF ECoN Life in JAP, FEC 242/32.
(OFFICES ONLY)
Sov member asked for comments of other members on his amendments. US
Traed
工
CONFIDENTIAL
FE:NA:ALDunning:lk
(10/14/49)
CLASSIFICATION
CR
Corrections made on this original MUST boACHESON
OCT 17 1940 A m
copies before delivery to Telegraph Branch.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
hee
CONFIDENTIAL
S - The Secretary
TO
: U - The Under Secretary
DATE: October
Through: G - Mr. Ruek; S/S
les
FROM
FE - Mr. Butterworth
Document Must Be Returned
SUBJECT:
Plan to Use US Navy to Enforce Japanese Fishing Area
Information has been obtained from a telegram (Tab A)
from the Commander of the Seventh Task Fleet that effective
October 23 an operation plan will be put into effect to
patrol the Japanese fiehing area authorized by SCAP. The
plan provides that any attempt to violate the rights of
Japanese fishing vessels by any ship either in or outside
of the authorized area will be considered an act of piraoy,
and that force may be used if necessary to free the Japanese
fishing vessel and escort the offending vessel back to Japan.
It appears from the telegram that the patrol will only be
in those fishing areas near the China coast and not those
bordering on the Kuriles. It is believed that your attenti
should be called to this matter as the Navy action may get 6
us into some, although probably not serious trouble. The 4
Department wae not consulted in this matter.
The decieion to use the US Navy as a patrol is undoubt dly
the result of a previous request from SCAp to the Departmeno
of the Army for assistance in this connection. During 1948
and 1949 a total of 67 seizures. of Japanese vessels both
inside and outside the authorized area by the Chinese and O
the Soviets has been reported. The worst offenders have
been the Chinese who in many instances have held the vessel
for operations in the civil war, and who in some instances O
have resorted to sinking the vessels and killing the crews.4
The Soviets have in some cases not returned the vessels or 0
crews.
CS/W
Nwm
FE:NA:AWModeley:lk:clh
31.
Confidentia
68
APR9
1
CONFIDENTIAL
E
5
D

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.95)
2Dc/k
File
Wum
OCT 26 1949
In reply refer to
NA
FESTRICTED
894.628/10-2649
MEMORANDUM FOR UNITED STATES MEMBER
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
In answer to the inquiry of the Soviet Repre-
sentative for further inform tion regarding the
conservation program for the Japanese fishing
industry which General MacArthur's Headquarters
has developed for assisting the Japanese, it is
suggested that you re ly along the following line.
"Announcement of the conservation
program for the Japanese fishing industry
develo, ed by General M&cArthur's Head-
quartere for aseisting the Japaneee was
Eet forth in FiC-271/1e. A further des-
cription of this rogram wae outlined in
FEC-271/27.
5
"The Soviet inquiry for further
information on this program was forwerded
to Tokyo and the Supreme Commander has
now replied thst a detailed report on
894.
the subject 'Japanese Fesearoh for Pur-
poses of Conservation of Fisheries in
Japan' 1s being prepared simultaneously
with the reorganization of the Japanese
fisheries researoh units. It is ettimated
that due to this reorganization the report
2
will not be com leted until February 1950.
8
However, it is suggested that pending com-
pletion of the re ort the Soviet Repre-
C4
sentative in Tokyo may wish to contaot
0
the appropriate SCAp agenoy 1f any specific
1
information is desired immediately."
2
6
A tre copy of
力
the signed origi-
nal.
S/S-CR
OCT
Johm M. Allison
49
Director,
Office of Northeast Asian Affairs I
cleoned in sebstonce
nm
RESTRICTED
FE:NA:HWMoseley:clh
10/25/49

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.96)
THE PON
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIGA
894.628/11-149
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
RTC 'D
No. 759
file
Tokyo, November 1, 1949
NOV 10
SECRET
ACTION
FE
Subject:
Proposed Northern Extension of the Jarenese
INFO
Fishing Area.
DCR
Xmx
11/21/49
U/FW
L
POLAD
mg.(NA)
EUR
The Honorable
894.628/
ITP
The Secretary of Stare.
OLI
Washington.
c
Sir:
6829
I have the hanor to rufer to this lission's
despeteh no. 594 o1 u ust 20, 1949. concerning informal
discussions with the Wasural Resources Section of
General Headquarters wit' respect to a proposed northern
extension of the Japaness fishing aree which would
embrace Etorofu and Kunashiri Islands In the southern
Kuril chain anl the Habomai end Chikotan islands.
In a com unieution to this Iicsion dated October 1,
1949, the Natur l Resources Section has initiated action
on the proposed northern extonsion ss cesoribed in this
1/
Mission's despatch under refererce. A copy of the Natural
Resources Jection's communic..tion of October 1, together
with its enclosures consisting of a araft emorandum
to the Chief of Staff and a draft letter to the Soviet
Member, Allied Council for Japan, ore nolosed. There
2/
is also enclosed a copy of this lission's reply in its
capacity as Diplomatic Section, General Headquarters, to
the communicetion of the Naturel Rescurces Section of
October 1. In this Mission's reply it is pointed out
that the northern extension, notwithstending the likeli-
hood of Soviet objection, ap ears desirable in order
to place on record the fact that SuaP does not regard
the present boundary of the fishing are in the vioinity
S
of Hokkaido and Kuril Islands as a pernanent boundary.
E
present proposal for a northern extension of the fishin
area until the Depart .ent's views on the problem are
nown
DEC 13 1949
SECRET
ACTION COPY

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-2-
known. It would be appreciated, therefore, ir the
Department would advise tris Mission of its position
as soon as may be practicable since the Natural Resouro
Seotion has expressed its desire to take up the proposed
northern extension of the fishing erea at the esrliest
possible date.
Respectfully yours,
 J Sebeld
Enclesures:
1
Cornunicution from
Naturel Res urees
Section, Cetober 1.
1049 witt its enelos ces
2
Copy of o is I ission"s
rerly therete, October 35.
1949
Parchment Mat to Depert ent.
522.8
CNSpinks: uhp
SECRET

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
no. 709, November L, 1949,
from the United States Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Proposed Northern
Extension of the Japanese Fishin
Area".
SECRET
General Headquarters
SUPREME COMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Check Sheet
R. V. Teeter, 26-8491
HGS/WCH/RVT/jin
File No. NR 432.1 (1 0ct 1949)Fi
Subject:
Extension of the Northern
Boundary of Authorized Fishing
rea
Note No.
From: NR
To: DS
Date: 1 Oct 1949
1. The need for providing a greater area for Japanese
fishing north of Hokkaido than that currently authorized,
has long been recognized within GHa. SCAP. Not many
months after the original establishment of this lorthern
boundary in late 1945, SCAP initiated negotiations to
regain some pre-war fishing concessions in waters off
Kamchatka and including some canneries locsted in Kamchatka.
USSR refused SCAP's proposal by  erely stating that the
canneries had been confiscated. Negotiations with Washington
on this proposal continued for e "ear, but were finally
discontinued when dashington deoliued to epproach the
Soviet Government to cbtain it o currnce. Again in
May 1948, NR circulated for the coent of the various
staff sections of GHQ a staff study proposing a small
extention of the authorized area to the north of Hokkaido.
Although the need for such an extension was generally
recognized, t he proposal was abandoned because it was
felt that such action at that tiue would perhaps unfavorably
affect the progress of discussions within the FEC on policy
to govern Japanese fishing, as well as Washington's
consideration of a proposed extension of the fishing area
to the south and east.
2. The need for extending the area to the north
remains acute. This action is essential to the rehabili-
tation of the Hokkaido fisheries. Even after long con-
sideration protracted over almost two years, the FEC has
failed to reach agreement upon the policy under which
Japanese fishing areas may be extended, and Washington
has not yet completed consideration of SCAP's proposal
to extend Japanese fishing south into the Trust Area.
In this connection it should be noted that the expected
production to be realized from a comparatively small
extension to the north is greater than that which it is
estimated will be realized if extension into the Trust
Area is approved. Also, these areas, lying just outside
the
CECRET

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
.-2-
NR 432.1 (1 0ct 1949) Fi
C/N 1
the present boundary three miles off the coast of
cont'd
Hokkaido are traditional fishing grounds of the northern
fisher en, which, because of their proximity to Hokkaido,
can be fished at less cost in fuel and materials. It
may be considered that those FEC nations who are fundanentall
opposed to further extension of Jananese fishing are ccgni-
zant of the fact that SCAP wil esitate to take the
initiative to extend Japanese fishing until this polioy
ter is settled in the FEc. The delaying tactics of
any such FEC nations can forestell indefinitely any action
to adjust equitably Japan's fishing boundary at the expense
of Japan & well as the US, who must pay in dollars for
this loss in food production. It is conceivable that
this delay in FEC could continue until the peace settlement.
3. SCAP has announced that Japan is ready for the
peace treaty. NR believes that this fact alone makes
it imperative that some action be initiated to correct the
northern boundary of the authorized fishing area. Unless
ScAf oes on record as advocating the extension of this
oundary before the eace settlement, the USsR will enjoy
the advantage of the precedent established and continued
by SCAP, which will support Russia's probable contention
that this northern fishing boundary be continued as a
political boundary.
4. In consideration of the above, NR has prepared
a Memorandun for the Chief of Staff on extension of the
northern boundary of the authorized fishing area. A
draft of this emorandum is being transmitted to DS for
comment prior to finalizing (Incl 1). DS comments are
especially desired on the draft letter to the Soviet
Member of the Allied Council for Japan (Tab A to Incl 1),
which invited the comments of the Soviet Government
to the proposed extension.
1 Incl
as indic above
-- - - -H。G。S。- -
SECRET

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
esno. 75t ted November
1949, froi the United States Politid
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Proposed Northern Ertension
of the Japanese Fishing Area".
DRAFT
SECRET
GENERAL HEAD UARTERS
SUPREME COLANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
DRAFT MEMORANDUL. TO CHIEF CF STAFF
PROBLEM:
To modify the boundary of the SCAP authorized
fishing area north and northeast of Hokkaido,
in the interest of increased production, safer
navigation and better compliance with area
limits.
FACTS BEARING UPON TIE FROBLEM:
1. Ne cran e or extension of the SCAP authorized
fishing area north and northeast of Hokkaido has been
authorized since its establishment, 27 Sept 45 (Tab B).
2. Increased fisheries production is needed to
provide more animal protein for consumption in Japan
and products for export. Before the war an annual average
of 837,000,000 1bs of fisheries products were landed in
Japan by Japanese fishermen from areas where the USSR
now has direct concern.
3. as originally established and later ∞ntinued
in SCAPINs 1033 and 2046 (Tab C), the boundary of the
authorized fishing area off Hokkaido lies three miles
off Soya Hisaki and at a similar distance off the coast
of Shiretoko reninsula and Nenuro Straits. At Nosappu
isaki it lies only 1 l/2 miles from the Hokkaido coast.
4. The proximity of the area boundary to the north
Hokkaido coast denies local fisherien a pess to a large
part of thei. isi ing grounds upon whioh, in the part,
they were dependent for their livelihood, Fishermen's
economic hardships in this impoverished area are directly
related to present restriction of fishing operetions
5. Shoals, rocks and stronz, variable currents in
the narrow waters defined above, make navigation hazardous,
especially when frequent stor s or fogs occur. The risks
involved imperil fishing operations and seriously hinder
enforce ent of SCArIN 2046 by making violation of the
area limits at times necessary for safety of ship and
crew, or practically unvoidable because of narrow limits
and poor visibility
6. USSR Member of the Allied Council has protested
alleged violations of 'USsR territorial waters" by
Hokkaido fishing boats (Tab D).
7。 The
SECRET

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
no. 759, Nove bei 1, 1949
SECRET
-2-
7. The restriction of fishing ressels to the
authorized area requires vessels to take devious courses,
which consume more fuel cil (supplies of which are
critically scarce) than normal sea routes via mid-channel
courses.
8. Japenese fishermen, boats and capital developed
the fisheries north of Hokkaido. These fisheries,
particularly those of northern Hokkaido near Soya Misaki
and Nosappu Misaki, are essential to the economic rehabili-
tation of Hokkaido fisheries. The Habomai Group and the
islands of Etorofu and Kuna jiri have been closely bound
to Hokkaido economically for memy years. Although these
fishing grounds are small in area, they are particularly
rich and believed not fully exploited at the present time.
9. Sinee March 1946, GHa, SCA: has received numerous
petitions fron Japanese groups for the authorization of
fishing to north and northeast of Hokkaido. Recognizing
the desirability and need for providing for Japanese
fishing operations beyond the present area off Hokkaido,
SCAP early advanced a proposal for Japanese operations
in and off amchatka, which USsR rejected (Tab E).
10. 3CaP has adopted the policy of discussing
proposed exiensions of the authorized fishing area with
countries directly concerned (Tab F). USSR is the
only country directly concerned with the fishing areas
lying just north of Hokkeido
11. The policy of the Us Goverrunent regarding
fisheries on the high seas is to make possible the
maximum production of food from the seas on a sustained
basis. This policy recognizes the right of all nations
to engage in such high s eas rishing provided that they
agree to ebide by international agreenents which may be
deemed necessary for the proper conservetion of the resources
in the area. The US recognizes the righ's of contiguous
nations to set up conservation zones on he high seas, on
the evidence of need, in order to conserve fisheries.
Where the nationals of other countries are involved, such
nations may participate in the jurisdiction over the
conservation regulations for these fisheries. This right
to set up conservation zones does not inlicn e the right
to extend sovereignty beyond territorial wavers or to
exclude any nation from the fisheries conducted within
such conservation zones (Teb G).
DISOUSSION
1. An extension of the authorized fishing area
north and northeast of Ho kaido should result in an
inerease in fisheries production ranging from 200, 000,000-
400, 000,000 1bs. This inerease in production wili not
only serve to alleviate the severe economic conditions
of the local fisher.en, but will benefit Japan's entire
economy by supplying more food for her people and
increasing exportable conmodities, for which e ready
market exists
2. The
SECRET

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
-3-
2. The nevigational difficulties and economi
hardships resulting from present area restriotions
off Hokkaido have created a situation whioh fosters and
encourages violations of the area limits. Because of
these difriculties, it is believed doubtful thet effootive
enforceient of the area boundary, as now established,
be provided for.
3. Reports have been received with increasing
frequency from Japanese sources th t Communists are
informing Japanese fishermen th.t USSR sympathizes with
their plight and is rrepared te make many concessions on
northern fishing if the fisheraen suprort the Communist
Party. In vlew of the Soviet attitude toward prevlous
STAP pro osals, it is likely that USSR will strongly
object to any northern extension of the fishing area.
However, it is desirable to get on record the USSR position
in this regard in order th:t the Jaianese fishermen and
people as a wiole uy be Infor ed as to the true UssR
attitude toward their interests end velfare.
4. There is a strong possi ility that the USSR will
attempt to use the present tishing boundery in the north as
basis for a peraanent politieal boundary. Apart from any
consideration as to the US3R' unwillingness to agree to
s northern extension of Japanege fishins, it is highly
desirable at th!s time thnt it he made a watter of record
that SoaP does not consider this nort ern rishing boundary
e fixed and permanent line.
SONOL SICUS
1. Ussk represent tive in Tekyo slould be informed
that 3oAF proposes to extend the suthorized fishing aren
as outlined on uar (Tab H), and the principle ressons
for this proposal The Usik should be permitted to comment
upon this proposal.
2. In the event that t he USsR rer resentative objeots
to the proposed extension, the text of ie SCAr proposal
and the USSR reply should be cae ubli.
RECOLLDATT
That aruft of ttoi  (Tut ) to the
UsSR hember er the ll iod ur il Lor Japan be aperoved
and file raturued to x
32
G.3
SECRET

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
nclosure no.tonclosure no
to Desptoh nc759 from the
United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Proposed Nor hern Extension of
the Japenese Jishing Area."
SECRET
DRAFT
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMI ANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Resources Section
AP0 500
Dear General:
The Supreme Conmender for the Allied Powers is
planning to modify the north and northeastern boundary of
the fishing area which he has authorized for Japanese
fishing operations on the high sess, in order to provide
increased production of acquatic prolucts and to alleviate
the serious economic conditions of the north coast fishermen.
The north and norsheastem boundary of the area around Soya
Misaki, the Shiretoko Peninsula snd the Nemuro Straits,
being limited to Japanese territorial waters, bars Japanese
fishermen from nearby high seas fisheries upon which the
prosperity of the local villages depend. Such close
confinement to the Hokkaido coust also subjects Japanese
boats to severe navigational hazards, perticularly in times
of storm and fog. The elimination of these hazards will
allow for etter compliance with the aree limits.
It is planned to modify the boundary of the fishing
area by amending the memorandum for the Japanese Government,
SCAPIN 2046 of September 19, 1949, to inelude the following
coordinates: From the point of 1350E, 400N, north to
140°E, 45°44°N; thence east to 149010'E, 45044 N; thence
south to 149010'E, 450N; thence east to 1650E, 450N;
thereafter following the boundary line as currently established
in above referenced SCAPIN directive.
This proposal is being brought to the attention of
the Soviet Member of the Allied Council for Japen for such
comment as his Government may wish to make.
SECRET

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
November 1, 1940.
SECRET
DRAFT
NOTE FOR RECORD:
1. The boundary.of the area authorized for
Japanese fishing north and northeast of Hokkaido was
originally established 37 September l945 and later
continued in SCAFIN 1033, 22 June 1945 and SCAPIN 2046,
19 September l949. Since its original establishment,
no extension in this boundary has been authorized.
2. It is considered desirable to modify the
fishing area boundary north and northeast of Hokkaido
in the interest of increased production, safer navigation
and better compliance with the area limits. Extension of
this boundary as stated in instant letter should result
in an increase in risheries production ranging from
200,000,000 - 400,000,000 p0 nds, eliminate navigational
hazards, end slleviste the severe economic conditions of
the local rishermen in Hoktaido.
3. Since SCAr has adopted the policy of discussing
proposed extension or the authorized fishing area with
countries directl: concerned, instant letter refers
the plan for the modification of the north and northeastern
area boundary to the UsSR Lember of Allied Council for
Japan for comment on behalf or the Soviet Government.
The USSR is the only country  irectly concerned in the
fishing area lying just north of Hoknsido.
4. Concurrences:
DS
ESS
G-2
G-3
SECRET

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.95)
no. 759 dated Novemb
from the United Sta
Adviser for Japanr
subject, "Extensiom
Northern Boundary of Autho
SECRET
Fishing Area".
Generul Headyuarters
SUTRELE CO.. ANDER FO: THE LLIED PO VERS
Check Sheet
DS/IJS/CNS/mhp
J. N. Spinks - 26 8633
File No. 3 22.8
Subject: xtensio of the Northern Boundary
of uthorized Fishing rea.
Note
no.2
From: 
To: NR
Date: 35 October 49
1. s a rees with N? that it is extremely improhable
that the Soviet Governsent will arree to the proposed
northern extension of the authorized Japanese fishing
area as outlined in c/n no 1 c'eve. Ds also agrees,
however. that it woula  pre: r. uvertheless desirable to
place on recora the prcposel  tension to iniic.te th t
So.P does not reaurd the preaat boundary of the fishing
area in the vicinity of Hokiailo end tie Kuril Islends
as a perranert boundary
2. Tn ugust l949 as iaremelly brought up the
question of the nortlern extonsi
The proposai was
referred by Ds to the Depart ent of Stete with the reyuest
that DS be advised of the Deparr oit's vievs on this
matter
3 Since Ds las not yet reccived uny indication of
the views by the Departrent of State on tle proposed
northern extension, it is again bringine ne matter to
the attention of the Depart..ent with the re uest thet DS
be advised of the United States position at the earliest
possible date in view of the rresent censideration of the
proposal by Nks Pendine the receipt of the Depart.ent
of State's views, DS reco...ende that the proposed northern
extension be beid in abeyence
n/c

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.95)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
46
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
SECRET
Washington,
NO.
46
USPOLAD,
zu
TOKYO.
Dec. 1, 1949
1894.628
A-219,
Re Missicn's Despatch/759 of November 1, 1949.
Department agrees northward extension of fishing
areas desirable for economic and navigational reasons.
It would also facilitate Japanese observance of northern
fishing area limits. Since Department holds that deter-
mination of fishing boundaries lies within SCAp's execu-
tive competence, it perceives no objection to proposed
894.628/
letter to Derevyanko but woulā appreciate opportunity
to review latter's reply, if negative, before publication
of the exchange of correepondence between SCAP and
Derevyanko.
With reference to NR statements re FEC set forth
in paragraph 2 of first enclosure of Mission's despatch
759, US has taken pos1tion in FEC that SCAP on basis of
executive authority may extend fishing areas. Department
assumes that SCAP'8 C51376 of July 13, 1949, in which
it is stated that "no FEc policy on this subject 1s
neceseary" is considered opinion of Headquarters on
this matter. For similar reasons no consideration
6
was given here to question of issuing unilateral directive
when proposed policy decision in FEC was lost due to USSR
and Chinese vetos.
eion
leavel fotyon)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
FE:NA:HWMcSeley
FE
(OFFICES ONLY)
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
EE
U/FW
L
11/29/8
FR
wa.
894.6
20
8
SECRET
CR CLEARANCE
C
21
S/
-149
NOV 80 10492M.
H

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.93)
AAROQRNO.4
SECRET
TO
NA - Mr. An
DATENovember 25, 1949
sUBJECT: Tokyo's 759 of November 1, 1949
Natural Resources Section of GHQ has requested POLAD's views
on a proposal to extend the authorized Japanese fishing area
northward to include the watere in the vicinity of
but outside the three-mile limit of — Etorofu, Kunashiri
and the Haboma1 Islands. The proposed extension, shown as an
enclosure to Despatch 594 (also attached) should result in an
increase in fisheries production ranging from 200 to 400 million
pounds annually. It would also eliminate the unsatisfactory
boundary with the USsR now passing through the narrow Nemuro and
Goyomai Straits, which restricts Japanese fishing operations in
F
northeastern Hokkaido to a three-mile belt. Since this congested, M
fog-bound belt must also serve as a navigational chennel for
Japanese vessels, navigation end fishing operations in this area
894.628/11
are conducted at considerable hazard. Widening of the fishing
area would also facilitate Japaneee ohservance of the northern
fishing area limits.
Natural Resources Section has specifically recommended to
the Chief of Staff thet a letter (enclosed with the despatch) be
sent to the USSR representative in Tokyo informing him that SCAP
proposes to extend the authorized fishing area according to the
attached mep together with the principal reasons for this pro-
posal. In the event that the USsR objects to the proposed ex-
tension, NRS intends to make public the text of SCAP's letter
and the USSR reply.
4
6
In its reply to NRS, POLAD has expresaed tentative concurrence,
adding that the northward extension of the authorized fishing area
would further serve to place on record the fact that SCAP does not
regard the present northern fishing boundary as a permanent
Japan-USsR geographical boundary. However, POLAD is withholding
1ts final approvai of the NRs proposal pending receipt of Depart-
mental concurrence. The Department's views are therefore solicited.
as soon as possible.
byair Graim
Comment:
121
It 1s suggested thet we reply to POLAdlalong these lines:
(S tow EE,Ul )
"URDES 759
11
C
SEORET
S
015037
H1
F
un
Eues

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-2-
"URDEE 759 NOV 1, DEPT agrees northward extens1on fishing
areas desirable for economic, navigational reasons. Would
also facilitate JAP observance northern fishing area limits.
Since DEPT holds that determination fishing boundaries lies
within SCAP's executive competence, it perceives no objection
proposed LTR to Derevyanko but WLD appreciate opportunity review
latter's reply if negative before pubiicetion correspondence
exchange."
I woulu like to add the following paragraphs to the
message to PoLAD to clarify our underetanding of the matter
of policy desirability for extending the fishing areas:
Not understood here are statements of
Natural Resources Section (para 2 of Enclosure,
Despatch No. 759) that "SCAP will hesitate to
take the initiative to extend Japanese fishing
until this policy matter is settled in the FEC",
that "the delaying tactics of any such FEC nations
can forestall inderinitely any action to adjust
equitably Japan's fishing boundary at the expense
of Japan as well as the Us," and "that this delay
in FEd could continue until the peace settlement".
Department procceded in FEC negotiations with
understanding that a policy defining fishing areas
was not considered neccbsary by SCAP and that SCAP
preferred to use his executive authority in those
matters. Department was so advised by Dept. of the
Army and in telegram C51375 of July 13 SCAP stated
that "no FEC policy on this subject is neceseary".
For similar reasons no consideration was given here
to question of issuing unilateral directive when
proposed policy decision in FEc was lost because
of Soviet and Chinese vetos.
wm
FE:NA:HWMoseley:clh
FE:NA:MGreen/pm
SECRET

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SEVIGE
Ac4.628/11-349
nited States Political
hili
for Japan
Tokyo, Tovember 3, 1949.
REC'D
no adiim riquuied
Iio. 766
NOV 11
ACTION
PESTRICTED
TT.
INTO
FR
oubject: Departure f Fuurth Anterotic Whal ing Expedition
DCE
U/FW
OLI
ITP
FISH & WILD
LIFE
6
The Honoreble
Jecretery of State,
Weshington.
Sir:
I heve the honer tc report thet on November 1. 1949,
eleven ships deperted from vokosuke to perticipete in
Jepen's fourth annuel enterctio whelirs expedition, with
the eppreval of the Suprome Joamander For the Allied Powers.
Jeven ad itionel shirs are expeoted to leave soon, which
with the eleven slips elready deperted will comprise one
fleet of the expeditlon.  second fleet will conslst of
fourteen ships scheduled to lerve Yokosuke on November 19.
As before, this yeer': Jepare se vheling expedition consists
of twc fleets.
The Deper tment will recall thet when the question arca
in the spring of 194? of issuin the .ublio announoement and
authorition of the current wheling expedition, as had beer
done by e Suprene Commander for the Allied Powers in the
preceding yeers, the Supreme Comnander dec ided thet prepare-
tions should proceed without a specific public announcement.
The subject did not attract the ettention of the press in
Japen until the appeerence of the ectuel news artioles in-
dicatine the impending departure of the ships on November 1.
so fer es tilis Headquarters is awsre no government protested
this mcdified procedure nor protested Japenese participatior
in this year's enterctlc wh ling.
Resgeotfully yours,
DEC 1 199
W. J. Sebeld
FILED
522.8
CCoville: gnd
Jopy to:
Amerioan Enbassy, London.
Amerioan Embassy. Oslo.
Amerloan Embassy, Canberra.
ACTION COPY
RESTRIOTED
AN TO DO/B FIL WITEN A DATS, WTTW A MOT

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.84)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
RAF/
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
NA
111
on A. sied to
2713
1949
acticn
2
JSIAIE
LH
3CL.,P00
 of
(Fide
iii.. :
ove.ber 12, 194s
:No16,1949 4:48 p
894.628/11
b,
E
080
shin ton.
COR
33
ith rercrelce to ti is isuion's des stol.
ORX
no. lo uf June 27, l s t e: art sut's attentlon
-849
is itvitcd i she . ilitay Jitellie poe ection's
AUR
d il: f: telli (ne .try, n. Sela, ove ber 4.
YFU
i , p le ent to reus  lysis, Jo unist rends
 ctivitic", in  iel is uarized tn article
fre the 'ove be 4 is. ue or t e com unist dsily
suht te re oi in, Horthern .aters Fishery Jonference
inder the joint ronsorchi ? tl.e Japan-soviet
idsii.  ey m the ll-Japan Jounoil of
Fisin In sr olhers nion. The conierence re, ortedly
lise ssed t.e :esur tion cf Jepuncse flehinc activities
in northetn Wat.. s, stressin that t.is roble. cannot
be solve by the tnti-co..munist polioy of the Yoshidu
Jcjinet but only y "yeuceful nd denooratio means."
The Jele ites tl enlin t.e conference re,ortedly
 reed to luunoh u ove..ent for the "resunption of
flshia: activitles based on Jacen-Soviet friendship".
HHeretofore, the Jeyenese Jo.munists have occasionelly
to. en up the nort ein tishinroblem, but not in the
fer..: 1 . unter of tie conferelie deseribed ebove. For
exn. le, the Lokkni himpo, orvan of tie Lokkaido 
R i nul Jo..uIttee, Jo an co  uniet iarty, in Its isouo
ro: it tn to ex ne fo ci u trale, e. cclally iith
(Save
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of actien tato

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.88)
Tokyo's A-298
Nove.ber 8, 1949.
-2-
(Save the rort of lakodeto), the article cluimed that
the Lakodate chinese residents ssociation, and other
locel business grou s as well as the Sociclist  syor
of the city are cooperating with tue Conm unist Farty
in an effort to revive Latodale's forein trade,
including the recovery of norteern fishcry ri nts.
It is believed particularly si nific nt thet the
Juptn Jomunist rtrty should so o enly rocote a move..ent
for tie recovery of nortmern rienin: ri  te, es eoleliy
on the casis of "Japen-soviet fric isi i ". such activity
strongly su. ests tre sossibility t t tre soviet Union
sty iutend to use tle northern fishuey uestion es a
bur sinin polat in eny peave ne pt ations.
...
J. Spinks:mhp
022.8
RT

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.93)
THE PORIEN SEVIGE
OF THE
UNTED STATES OF ANERICA
13
G
REC D
United States Political Adviser
NOV 26
for Japan
puli
No。 783
Tokyo, November 12, 1949.
(Duys.0)
(1)LeTTuT. m. WesT/DA C/e109
ACTION
FE
CONFIDE TLAL
ACTT(2)Le.Sd/PD/2/
INFO
ugren(NA)
FR
DCR
U/FW
Subject:
Seizures of Japanese Fishing Vessels by
Chinese Patrols.
L
OLI
scm
C
9
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
Washington
2
Sir
8
to this Mission's despatch no.
55c .
1 1949 concerning seizures of Japanese
fishing vessels in the East China Sea by Chinese patrols,
1-1249
I nave the honor to bring to the Department"s attention
further develeuments on this subject
XK
On August 26 1949 the Chinese Mission in Japan
In a communication to this Mission in its capacity of
894.957
Diplomatie Seetion General Headquarters indioated that
appropriate sssps would be taken to repatriate crew
members of seized Japanese vessels The communication
further diselosed however that the Chinese Navy
Headguarters categorically denied that seized Japanese
vessels are belng used by the Chinese authorities for
military purpeses or tin t such vessels are being armed.
A copy of the Mission's com unicatlon of August 26 is
1/
enclosed
The Natural Resources Section of General Headquarters
has expressed consi derable concern over the failure of
the Chinese Government to sive adequate consideration
to this Mission's protests auinst the eeizure and
confiseation of Jupanese fishing craft by the Chinese
authoritles In a co municution dated Cotober lo, the
Natural Resources Section indiouted that thirty-three
Japanese ves els have been seized to date (two being
sunl with the loss of ten lives), as a result of aried
attacka that two vessels have menaged to escape and
return to Japan and thet the Chinese authorities are
currently
FAP
FILED
DECLASSIFIED
20
NND780069
1950
By ZH. NARS. DO10 2SVe0. 80
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's despatch no. 783,
November 12, 1949.
JC:TIDENTIAL
-2-
currently holding twenty-nine vessels and 143' crew
members. The Natural Resources Section requested this
Mission to take appropriate action to effect the return
of all vessels seized by the Chinese authorities and all
crew members still detained This matter was accordingly
again brought to the attention of the Chinese Mission
in a communication dated October 12 copy of which is
2/
enclosed.
With reference to the Chinese Navy's denial of
the arming and use of seized ves els for military
purposes contained in the Chinese Mission's conmunication
of August 26, inforaation of sufficient probative value
has come to the attention of General Headquarters to
leave no doubt that seized Japanese vessels have been
armed and are being used for military purposes, ineluding
the armed seizure of other Japanese fishing craft.
In a coamunication dated October 13, the Natural Resources
Section brought to this Mission's attention further
evidence to substantiate this charge and requested thut
the matter be again taken up with the Chinese Mission
with e view to effectine  return of vessels illegally
conriecated by the Chinese authorities and to preventing
further seizures.
On November I Lieutenant General CHU Shih-ming
Chief of the Chinese Mission in Japan, celled at my
request to discuss this problem I handed to General
Chu an aide memoire on the subject as well as a copy
(in English translation) of a sworn affidavit by a
Japanese fiaherman who had escaped from Fornosa in which
he testified that he plainly recognized the two Chinese
patrol creft which carried out the armed seizure of his
fishing boets as twe Japatese fishing vessels formerly
captured by the Chinese The affiant further testified
that while confined in Formosa he saw a number of other
seized Japanese vessels which had been ur ed by the
Chinese authorities General Chu was asked to urge
upon the Chinese Govern ent the necessity to prevent
further seizures  to release all vessels illeally
confiscated or detained. and to give assurance that
suitable indenmification will be made for the fishing
vessels sunk and the lives lost as s result of armed
attacks on the high seas by the Chinese patrols
Copies
3/4
of the uide memoire and arfidavit are enelosed.
In the course of our discussion. I told General
Chu for his conridential information that a considerable
body of opinion in General Headquerters is in favor of
publicizing all correspondence concerning this problem
I pointed out that to date the decision had been thut the
matter should be hept on an official basis between the
Headquarters and the Mission, but that it was impossible
for me to determine how long this attitude would be
maintained. I stressed that publicity would have a
most

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.94)
2okyo's despatoh no. 785
November 12, 1949.
-3-
most serious effect on publia opinion in Japan. General
Chu assured me that he fully appreciated the attitude
of General Headquarters and that the Chinese Foreign
Office is also inclined to agree with the contentions
made by SCAP. The Chinese Navy. on t'e other hand, is
most difficult to control end acts in an erbitrery and
unwarranted manner entirely independently of the Foreign
Office. General Chu said however. th:t he would
immediately send a telegran couched in the strongest terms,
not only to the Toreign Office but to he Coumander of
the Chinese Navy at Taine: ith a view to settling this
.o-lem snd promised a reply within several =ye. I
agein stressee t tecessiby for conoret: ection, especislly
the return of the ehiang vessels hieh have been illegelly
confiscated by the Jainese Government Generel Chu suid
he woula stronaly urge his Jovernment ana the Chinese
Nevy to st ul ong these lines.
In view of the confased situation in China a
satisfsstery sclution to shis problem lous not seen
likely Availa le evidence indicates tha't the primery
reason for the seizure snd confiscaticn of Japanese
fisning vessels is military necessity end not the fact
that such vessels are reportedly found operating outside
the authcrized rishing ares In many cases the seized
vessals ere vesertea te be used sither aileetly or
Lndirectiy in support of chinese Naticmalist ddlitary
oreraticus The necessity to use such vessels for this
urroce y well insrease as the Natioualist position
Furtner deteriorates The Chinese cuthorities leve
however  en steps to effeet t'e return of crew members
of seized vesssla und l 3 Japenese fislermen were
repatriated fron Fermose in Outober It is also enesureging
to note that no furthep seizures of Japunese fi bing
craft la the Waat Chine Sea have been  rted cs ocourring
since  ust ls Vhether this can be ated to recent
operetions by United Stetes Navel vessels in this area
(thts Hiesien s despetch no 55s) or to other causes is
not knewr.
Respeotfully yours.
 J Sebald
xa)

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's despeton no, 703,
November-12; 1949.
CONTTDRIMTAL
-4-
Enclosures:
1.
Copy of Chinese Mission's
conmunication of August 26.
1949
2.
Copy of this Ilission's com-
munication of Octoher 12,
1949 to Chinese Mission.
3.
Aide menoire dated November 1,
1949 to Chinese Mission.
4.
Afridavit by Japanese fisher-
an.
Copy to: Amerioun Consulate General
Teipeh
Americsn Consulate Generall
Hong Kong
Parchmant llat to Deparument.
543.1/522.3
CNSpinke: uhp
CONDIDINTIAL

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch no. 783
dated November 12, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Seizures
of Japanese Fishing Vessels by
Chinese Patrols.
(CCIY)
CHI LS  JAPAN
TOYYO
LEMORLENDUL
August 26, 1949
Reference is made to the enorandum of the
Diplomatic Section, GHa, 3CAF, dated June 27. 1949
concerning the reported seizure by Chinese naval
craft of four Japanese fishing boats, the Nitto Maru
Nos 5, 25, 52 and 53.
According to official information just received
by tho Chinese Lission from its home government, the
four above-mentioned Japanese fishing boats were
seized by the Chinese  yer Chang Chih (
on may 2s, le4e at t.orth Latitude, lezoso Mast
Longitude where they were found operating, far beyend
the limit of the Scat authorised sres, in the Chinese
coastal fishing area The destroyer was compelled to
take the Japanese vessels with their crews to Tinghai,
Chusun Islend to be disposed of pursuant to the Chinese
Executive Order entitled "measures Dealing Vith Japanese
Fishlng Vessels Operating Beyond Authorized Area"
effective August 5 jsas
The sist and the raison a'etre
of ohe said Order were referred te in this Mission's
Memorundum of Tay 14, 1049 to the Diplomatio Section
As to the crews, appropriate steps for their early
repatrlation to Jaran are being taken by the Chinese
authorities directly ccncerned
The Chinese Havy Heudquarters categorically
denies thut "the vessels are being used for military
purposes" and stetes that the ellegatien that "The
Nitto Maru No 5 and the Nitto Maru No 53 have been
Tightly armed" is e ually cro naless
To the
Diplometic Seccion. General Headquarters
Supreme Co.mander for the Allied Powers
Tokyo

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 2 to Despatch no. 783
dated November 12, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Seizures of Japanese Fishing Vessels
by Chinese Patrols".
GENERAL HEAD UARTERS
Supree Commander for the Allied Powers
Diplomatic Section
The Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, presents its
compliments to the Chinese Mission in Japan and has the
honor to refer to its co unications of June 27, July 18,
August 8, and August 23, 1949, concerning seizures of
Japanese fishing vessels on the high seas by Chinese
forces.
Infornation now available to this Headguarters
indicates that the report of seizures in the previous
∞rrespondence was seriously incoaplete. Informstion
since received indicates that Chinese forces have seized
not less than thirty-three Japanese fishing vessels
of which two were sunk and twenty-nine are still in
Chinese detention
The nurther of Japanese me hers of the
crews of sueh illegelly seized vessels who are forcefully
detained in Chinese hnds at the present time aiounts to
a total well in excess of one hundred persons In the
illegal actions which resulted in these seizures ten
Japanese were killed or drowned On behalf of the Supreve
Commander for the Allied Powers the following seizures of
Japanese fishing vessels by Chinese forces on the high
seus are additionally protested anl the release of the
vessels, as well as the return to Japan of the vessels
and crews togeuher with s complete report of the cirsum-
stances surrounding each seizure, is requested:
The Unzen Maru No 21 and the Unzen Laru No 22
were seized on the high seas by u Chinese warship (en
orican built LST) namei the Chunken on May 29. 1948.
Both ships were fired upon two menbers of the crew of the
Unzen Muru Ne. al were kilied, and the ship was sunk. The
Unzen Maru No 22 was towed into Shanghai and confiscated.
The TaTheT aru No. 3 and the Taihei Maru No. 5 were seized
on the high seas on January 21, 1949, by a Chinese warship
nared the Yingning They were towed to Shanghai and
confiscuted
The  aiyo Maru No. 1 and the Kaiyo Maru No 2 were
seized on the h1gh seas on January 21, 1949, by a Chinese
warship. were towed to. shenghai, e nd were confisoated
The Akashi Maru No 1a1 end the Akashi Laru No 122
were seized on the Figh  on Januery 21, 1949 by a
chinese warship numed the  mg-Go, were towed to Shanghai.
and were confiscated
The

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure no. 2 to
Tokyo's despatch no.
783, November 12, 1949.
-2-
The Akashi Maru No. 156 and the Akashi Maru No.. 157
were seized on the high seas after being subjected to
gun fire on June 22, 1949, by a Chinese warship (an
American-built L3T) naied the Chuki, and were teken to
the Naval Base at Takao, Fornosa.
The skahi Maru No. 107 and the Akashi Maru No. 152
were seized on the high seas on August 7, 1949, by Chinese
manning tie former Japanese fishing vessels Nitto Maru
No. 25 and Kaiyo Maru No. 2, which had been armed With
25am. guns and machine guns The seized vescels were then
taken to Tinghai, Chushan Islands.
The kashi Maru No. 99 and the kashi Maru No. 103
were seized on the highh seas on August 18, 1949, by a
Chinese warship after being subjected to machine sun fire.
and are believed to have been taken to Tinghai, Chushan
Islands.
The Yutaka Maru No. 6 and the Yutaka Maru No. 8
departed from Shimonoseki on June 13, 1949, and are
believed to have been seized and taken to Takao, Foriosa,
before the end of the month.
The Mansei Maru No. 85 and the Mansei Maru No. 86
were seized on the higt . s on July 8, 1949, by Chinese
mannins the former Japanese fishing vessels Nitto Maru
No.. 25 and Tokai Maru, after being subjected to machine
gun fire, and were taken to Tinghei, Chushan Islands.
The Tokusai Maru No 1 and the Tokusai Maru No 2
were seized on the high seas on May 6, 1948, and were
taken to port und confisented.
The Hiruko Maru No. 1l was seized on the high seas
on May c. 1948 and was taken to port and corfiseated.
In view of the s erious oharebter of the aotions
listed above, s rell as those
ioned in t
:s
oonmunications already cited, it will be aprre
the Mission will apprise the Diplomatic Section of tne
Chinese Government's reply at the earliest possible time
Tokyo October 12, 1949

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 3. to Despatch no. 783
dated November.12, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser
for. Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Seizures of Japanese Fishing
Vessels by Chinese Patrols".
GENERAL HEAD UARTERS
Supreme Coltander for the Allied Powers
Diplomatic Section
AIDE MEMCIRE
On November 1. 1949, His Excellency Lieutenant
General CHU hih-ming, Chief of the Chinese Nission
in Japan, called on Mr. William J. Sebald, Chief of
the Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters, to
discuss at the latter's request the subject of seizures
of Japanese fishing vessels by Chinese patrols. Lr. Sebald
referred to the Diplomatic Section's conmunication to the
Mission of October 12, 1949, and previous comrunications,
notably Diplomatic Section's protest against the use of
seized Japanese vescels for military purposes by the
Chinese authorities cont ined in a note to the Mission
dated June 27, 1949, and the Mission's communication
dated August 36. 1949, informing the Diplomatic Section
of the Chinese Navy Head uarters' categorical denial
that seized Jaranese vessels were either being armed or
used for ilitary purposes by the Chinese authorities.
Mr. Seball inforned General Chu that, notvithstanding
the denials just entioned, considerable evidence in
support of the grotest of June 27 has been brought to
the Diplomatie Section's attention. This evidence is of
such probative character as to leave no doubt in the
opinion or General Headquarters that a number of Japanese
fishing vessels seized by Chinese ratrols have been armed
and ure being used by the chinese authorities for military
purposes s one exumple of the evidence now available
to General Meadquarters, General Chu was given a copy of
an affidavit made under oath by a Japanese fishe rman
whose vessel, the stashi Maru No 99, was seized by tvo
armed Chinese patro1 vessels c, August 18, 1949 after
being subjected to machine-sur fire.. Aboard these patrol
vessels, moreover were a number of armed Chinese soldiers.
The sworn affidavit furt er shows that the two Chinese
armed patrol cruft were easily identified by the affiant
as the for er Nitto Maru No 52 und the Tokai Maru,
two Japanose fishing vessels previously seized by
Chinese patrols  The affient was teken to Keelung,
Forosu, after the Akashi Maru No. 99 was captured, where
with other crew members he was eneaged by the Chinese
authorities for repair work on other seized vessels.
The affiant further testified thit while enguged in this
worlk in Keeluns he not only saw a large number.of seized
Japunese fishing vessels, but was able to observe among
them the Nitto Maru Nos. 5, 25, 52, and 53, the Akashi Maru
Nos. 107, 131, 122 und 152, the Tokai Maru, two Taihe1
Meru vessels and two Kaiyo Maru vessels which had been
ar ed by the Chinese authorities.
General

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 3 to
despatch no. 783,
November 12, 1949.
-2-
General Chu was infor ed thct, in v'ew of the
accumulated evidence, General Headquarters must view
with the gravest concern the unwarranted seizures of
Japanese fishing vessels, their unjustified confiscation
by the Chinese authorities, the arming of some of these
vessels, and their employment for military. purposes,
including armed seizure of other Japanese fishing craft.
He was also reminded that the Mission had been infomned
in a number of communications from the Diplomatic Section
that the Supreme Cormander slone, as the sole executive
for the Allied Powers, has jurisdiction over Japanese
vessels on the high seas, and that only the Headquarters
of the Supreme Conmander is entitled to deal with viola-
tion of its directives to the Japanese Governient concem-
ing such matters.
Lotwithstanding the uct that the Chinese Government,
through the ission, was informed of this position as
early as June 22, 1948, t.o Chinese Government on
August 5, 1948, issued an Executive Order providing,
inter alia for the seizure 1 confiscation by the
Chinese Government of any Japanese fishing vessels found
on the high seas between the western limits of the
authorized fishing area and China's territorial waters.
This purported Executive Order not only contravenes the
rules of international law limiting the action of a
sovernment against ships not of its own flag on the high
seas, but also contravenes the recognized responsibilities
of the Supreme Conmander as the sole executive for the
Allied Powers
Ir. Sebald stated that the sontinued disregard
and violetion of its authority through such unileteral
action by the Chinese authorities had becone a matter
of serlous coneern to General Headquarters, end he
accordingly desired to impress upon Generai Chu the need
for urgent and energetic measures by the Mission and by
the Chinese Governm ent to ensure an im ediate cessation
of these lllegal activities. Since repeated protests
against unwarranted sinkings, seizures confisca ions,
ar ing of seized Japanese vessels, ind their use for
military purposes have so far been unavailing, it was
Imperative, he said that core positive means be employed
to urge upon the Chinese Governient the necessity of
its preventing further seizures of Japanese vessels,
releasing the vessels illegally confisocted or detained
together with ell crew members. and siving adequate
assurances that it is prepered to make suitable indemnifi-
cation for the fishing vessels sunk end the lives lost
as e result of ar ed attacks on the high seas by Chinese
patrols. Mr Sebald accordingly requested General Chu
to be so good as to take this matter up with his Govern-
ment at once and to inform him as soon as may be possible
of the action being taken by the Chinese authorities in
the premises
Tokyo, November 1, 1949

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure no. 4 to despath no. 783
dated November 12, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Seizures of Japanese Fishing Vessels
by Chinese Patrols".
(C0PY)
HAN STATE ENT
City of Shimonoseki
Prefecture of Yanaguchi
I affirm that, according to my conscience, I will
speek tr ruth, ading nothing and concealing nothing.
I voluntarily déslure as follows:
As a crew member aboard the No. 99 Akashi Maru
belongins to the Taiyo Fishing Co., I left Shimonoseki
City on 6 Ausust. We comenced fishing operetions on
i0 August. I a. not sure of the exact location, but on
the previous day, when I asked the captain. he ronlied
that we had nothing to worry about, sine .
ell
within the Macarthur Line I do not know the t
time, but it was approximately lo00 hours on 18 August,
that two ships appeared, and they appeared to be Japanese
fishing vessels. They inmmediately began aprroaching
our ship As they neared our ship, I coula plainly see
machine cuns mounted on the bridge. We imediately
cut our ropes, and attempted to flee. We fled for
approximately cne hour."The achine gun fire became
so intense, und the captor ship gradually gained on us,
that we were 
to stop.Immediately three Chinese
soldiers carrying rifles boarded our ship, and we were
taken in tow by the Chinese ship. At this time I realized
that our cuptor ships were tile former No 52 Nitto Maru
and the Tokai Muru, which had previously been captured.
We were bonf nod to s storeroom aboard our ship Soon
the towine stopred, and three other chinese. making a
total of six calle on board our ship. We Japanese then
took turns in steering our ship on the evening of
20 August. we arrived at the port of Tinghai On the
2lst day of August the crew members f the 99 Akashi Maru
were trunsferred to the Ne. los Akashi Maru. only the
Chief engineer, the chief pilot. and an assistant pilot
were left on beard the No. 99 Akashi Maru e then
immediately sailed for Formosa. On 22 ugust, the No. 99
Akashi Maru, and the No. 52 Nitto Maru sai led for Formosa.
Enroute, the No 99 Akaslhi Maru hit a rock. We arrived
in Formosa, port of Feelung, on 24 August. Since that
time we were engaged In doing repair work aboard the ship.
On

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure no. 4 to
despatch no. 783,
November 12, 1949.
-2-
On 2 September, we were ordered to transfer to the.
Toshin Maru, with which we complied. The Japanese
fishing vessels which I saw during that time, were the
No.52, No. 53, No 25, and No. 5 Nitto Maru, No. 152
No. 107, No 103, No. 99, No. 121, and No. 122 Akashi
Maru, Tokai Varu, No. 5 '  a no. 5'Taihei Maru, No. 85,
and No. 86 Bansei Maru, No. 1, and No. 2 Kaiyo Maru.
The ships which were ar ed were the No. 52, No. 55,
No. 25, and No. 5 Nitto Laru, No. 132, No. 107, No. 121,
and No. 122 Akashi Maru, Tokai Laru, Taihei Maru
(2 ships numbers unknown), end Kaiyo Laru (2 ships
numbers unknown)
y state. ent consists of 2 peges and was not made
under duress
Further signatory sayeth not.
Signature /s/ Hashimoto Tadao
Romaji /s/ Tashimoto Tedao
Han or Right Thuab Print (han)
Hitnesses:
s/ James J Votine
s/ Kiniohi Asavi

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
FET
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
: U/FW - Mr. Taylor
FROM : S/S-CR - L. C. Roberts
DEC2949
SUBJECT:
AND WILDLIFE
In view of the following I thought it best to return these
letters to you:
The envelopes which have been prepared should be marked
Confidential and covering envelopes should be provided. (In-
cidentally, I learned that the mail room does register them.)
The words copy of a should be added at the end of the
third line.
The memorandum from SY which you mentioned should be
placed in the file.
Please clear the letters with BNA, as suggested by NA.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.97)
Cou fideutial
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
BNA - Mr. Dak
DATE: December 22, 1949
TO
S/S-CR - Miss Daniels
U/FW - Mr. Taylor 7.3.7.
FROM
The suggestions made in S/S-CR's memo of December 21,
SUBJECT:
attached, have been followed. Miss Daniels, you will note
the copy of a memo, attached to the blue. If you have any
questions concerning this please call me or Miss Davies, U/Fw,
X-2927.
EUR/BNA
DOMINION AFFAIRS
DEC 2 2 1949
Con Ju denteal

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
ACIR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
fiee
TELEPHONE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: December 12, 1949
SUBJECT:
(1) Extension of Japanese fishing areas
(2) Proposed port privileges convention with Canada
PARTICIPANTS:
U/FW - Dr. Chapman
CP - Mr. Weiss
XR
ITP - Messrs. Brown and Leddy
COPIES TO:
U/FW - Dr. Chapman
CP - Messrs. Corse and Norwood
5
PSA - Messrs. Ely and Shaw
NA - Mr. Moseley
894.
UND - Mr. Yeomans
L/P - Mr. Snow
BNA - Mr. Southworth
628/12
ere
1—1498
I called Dr. Chapman regarding two matters: (1) the pro-
posed extension of Japanese fishing areas and (2) a proposed
port privileges convention with Canada.
(1) Extension of Japanese Fishing Areas - I indicated to
Dr. Chapman that I had discussed this problem with Mr. Leddy,
and that though Mr. Leddy was agreeable to the conditioning of
2
the extension of the Japanese fishing area on the prior working
4
out of adequate inspection arrangements, he questioned the valid-
6
ity of also conditioning this extension on the resolution of the
boundary line problem with the Philippines. I stated that ITP
and CP were concerned that the U.S. position regarding freedom
of the high seas not be compromised, and we have no objection
to this point being made clear in connection with the proposed
extension. I indicated, however, that unless there were strong
political objections of which we had not yet been appraised, we
saw no good reason for going any further and refusing SCAP the
right to undertake the proposed extension until the boundary
problem had been worked out with the Philippines.
68
I inquired
F
PR
CONFIDENTIAL
C-
ILED
C
6
S
2
a
8
Cat.
1949
1
232124
12-1249
Dist

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
I inquired from Dr. Chapman whether this position of
ITP and CP would present any problems to him. He replied
that he thought it would not, since consideration of the
proposed extension was moving forward rather slowly and
he, on the other hand, was working as fast as possible to
develop conservation arrangements with the Canadians. Dr.
Chapman indicated that no further interdepartmental meeting
had occurred since the last meeting held in the Department on
this matter. The scheduled interdepartmental meeting had been
postponed a number of times at the request of Navy. Dr. Chap-
man also indicated that no general departmental position re-
garding the proposed expansion of Japanese fishing areas had
as yet been firmly developed, particularly in view of the
fact that UND is still considering the effect of the expansion
on the Trust territories and the possibility of working out
some arrangements to ensure that the inhabitants of these
territories would gain some benefits in the event any such
expansion of Japanese fishing areas should occur.
(2) Proposed Port Privileges Convention with Canada -
In response to Dr. Chapman's request for comments by December
12 on this convention, I indicated that I did not think we
were going to satisfy the Canadians by granting them port priv-
ileges in Seattle and Alaskan ports but not in any U.S. Pacific
ports south of Seattle, while we were requesting from the Can-
adians port privileges in all their Pacific ports. Dr. Chapman
indicated that the Canadians had a good point in requesting
port privileges along our Pacific Coast generally in return
for a comparable extension of privileges on their part; that
as a practical matter the Canadians would not,however, be
likely to use to any significant degree ports south of Seattle
in any event; that domestic fishing interests did not appear
concerned about allowing the Canadians to use these ports; and
that the principal objection to granting the Canadians priv-
ileges in these ports came from the Customs Bureau in Treasury.
Dr. Chapman stated that he had been trying for some time to
get a clear statement of Customs' objections but as yet he
had not been successful. So far as he could gather, the
Customs people seemed to be concerned principally about two
points: (1) the possible adverse effect competitively on
the domestic fishing industry of giving the Canadians the
port privileges in question, and (2) the problems that might
be raised with respect to granting other foreign countries
similar favorable treatment as a result of the precedent that
might be
CONFDENTIAL

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
might be established should such treatment be accorded Canada.
I indicated that though we would want to look into the
matter more closely, I doubted that we could go along with
the first objection of Customs for not extending port privi-
leges to the Canadians south of Seattle. As for the second
objection, I indicated that I was not sure of all the compli-
cations that might be involved and hence was not in a position
to advance any opinion. I suggested to Dr. Chapman that efforts
be continued to obtain a complete statement of Customs' ob-
jections and that after their views had been obtained, we should
look at the matter again. At such time I would take the matter
up with ITP. Meanwhile, I indicated that ITP and CP were re-
serving their position on the question of extension of port
privileges to the Canadians south of Seattle.
ITP:CP:LWeiss:dp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
October 18, 1949
U/FW: Dr. Chapman
U/FW: Isla V. Davies
Discussion with a special advisory group of West Coast
fishery representatives regarding fishery provision in
Treaty of Peace with Japan.
I talked yesterday (October 17) with Mr. Fearey NA to
get his reaction to Dr. Chapman's proposed consultation with
a selected group of fishery industry advisers regarding a
fishery provision in the draft Treaty of Peace with Japan.
I explained to Mr. Fearey that Dr. Chapman felt it necessary,
not to discuss the subject generally with these people, but
to shcw them the exact language of the Article as now
drafted. I said that Dr. Chapman's experience has shown
these people to be trustworthy and if they are satisfied with
the proposed provisions, the remainder of the industry will
be satisfied. I said that Dr. Chapman would not discuss
the matter of timing or programming of any negotiations;
and that this need not occasion any embarrassment since the
West Coast people are themselves raising the question, or
reactivating it, at this time.
Mr. Fearey said it would be entirely agreeable to make
the disclosure of the exact language of the Article, under
the conditions set forth above. He reiterated that the
question of timing must under no circumstances be revealed.
I later (October 18) gave the same information to
SY Mr. Dulin who said he was satisfied to accept Dr. Chapman's
judgment on the point.
Copies to:
SY - Mr. Dulin
NA - Mr. Fearey
opy
Trykor
U/FW:IVDavies:mdh
7.5.
v/Fw
SECRET

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.96)
39
REGISTERED
Ia reply refer to
U/FW
DEC231949
CONFIDENTIAL
Q) My dear Mr. Freeman:
In order to provide you with background information
so that you may adequately dvise the Department on the
question of Japanese Fisheries there is enclosed a copy of
despatch cated November 29,1949 from the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers on this subject.
The discussions rentioned in SCAP's communication
have reference to the proposed Pacific Ocean Fisheries
Convention between the United States, Canada, and Japan.
At the meeting of the special advisory committee in
Coronado you were provided with copies of the documents
referred to in the despat6h.
You will note the classification "Confidential" on
the despatch and will treat the material in the manner
indicated in the instructions provided you at the
Coronado meeting for material of this classification.
Copies of the despatch are beint forwarded to the
entire Committee: Mr. Synnestvedt, Mr. Allen, Mr. Lokken,
Mr. Sandoz, Mr. Brooding, Mr. Loker, Mr. Phister, Mr.
Waugh, Mr. Eckdale, and yourself.
Sincerely yours,
DEC 20
For the Secretary of State:
 194
W. M. Chapman
Enclosure:
Special Assistant to th
Under Secretary
ByTaO/Fu
Copy of confidential
despatch from SCÁP atad November 29, 1949.
Mr. Miller Freeman,
Care Miller Freeman Publications,
在..
124 W. Fourth Street,
Los Angeles 13, California.
U/FW:FETaylor:nh 12-16-49
BNAW
FE

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
IDENTICAL LETTER WITH ENCLOSURE SENT TO THE FOLLOWING
Mr. Harold Synnestvedt, Vice-President,
New England Fish Company,
895638
1828 Exchange Building,
Seattle 4, Washington.
The Honorable
Edward W. Allen,
1308-1318 Northern Life Tower,
Seattle, Vashington.
895636
Mr. Harold Lokken,
Fishing Vessel Owners Association,
Pier 59, Foot of Pike Street,
Seattle 1, Washington.
Mr. T. F. Sandor,
<95635
Executive Vice-President,
Columbia River Packers Associ tion, Inc.,
P. 0. Box 150
Astoria, Oregon.
Mr. Milton E. Brooding,
California Packing Corporation,
191 California Stree,
San Francisco, Califotnia.
Wr Donald P. Loker,
895633
French Sardine Company,
181 Fish Harbor Wharf
Terminal Island, Californ a.
Mr. Montgomery Phister,
Ven Cam Sea Food Company, Inc.,
772 Tuna Street,
Terminal Island, California.
Mr. James Waugh,
156311
Cannery Workers Union, A.F. of L.,
San Pedro, California.
Mr. Arch E. Eckdale,
895630
614 South Pacific Avenue
San Pedro, California.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
TO : SE- OR
DATE: 12/20/49
SUBJECT:
The drafter of the attaohed letter advises me that a
special arrangement has been worked out by U/FW with SY
to allow the transmittal of confidential data to fishing
industry representatives. Assuming this to be so I have
initialed the attached.
I suggest S/S-CR assure iteelf of this fact. The
reference letters mentioned in par. 1 of the SCAP despatoh
are also confidential I am advised.
I suggest a clearance with the Canadian desk.
FE:NA:HWMoseley:clh
Conpdontil

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Febraury 3, 1947
Mr. Claxton:
Reference the attached letter from the
President, Imperial Pearl Syndicate, Inc.
The letter was written as a result of a
luncheon the General had with this man last
week. The Company feels something should be
done to stimulate the import of pearls from
Japan. They want to send one of their
officials to Japan but were told by General
Hilldring this was out of the question. It
was at General Hilldring's suggestion they
proposed to detail one of their employees
to Uscc. However, the General is not certain
that this is the proper solution, but he
wants to use this letter as a lever to get
something started along this line. During
my conversation with him, he thought it
should be talked oyer with Mr. Petersen and
the USCC people. Please see what can be done
and draft a reply for the General's signature.
w.Wnlgmeron
44,
