894.7961 Other Means Of Communication And Transportation. Carrier Pigeons., Aerial Navigation. Immunities Of Government-Controlled. Subsidies., Japan, Laws And Regulation., September 25, 1930 - February 2, 1933 (File 771)
ID: 894.7961-771   Pages: 139   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.7961-other-means-of-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
7
NOTE
C
194.7961
SEE
894.796-Ford Motor Co/12
FOR..#-
FROM
China
) DATED Sep.?5, 1930.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Japanese insistence that aviator flying Ford plane
from Japan to China over the South Hanchuria Rail-
way zone, first obtain Japanese perission.
(Mu den #353, Sep.20 to Legation.)
nib/

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.7961
INDEX BUREAU
800.79611 Lundgren, T.S./29
Despatch #64
SEE
FOR
9
FROM Japan
(
Forbes
) DATED November 19, 1930.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Instructions of Japanese Government regarding
flights over Japenese territory and landing
fields. Encloses a set of-. (Copy of despatch
attached).
jw

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.87)
Tokyo, Xovember 19, 1980.
o. 64.
894.701
人
0
The Honorable
The Seoretary of tto,
ashiswston.
151
I have the honor to refer to the Dapartment's
telegram 50. 170 of September 20, 1980, stating that
the airplame fllgat of 1lliam I. Marsalis, Roger .
William, and T. S. ndgren in an Emseo Moneplame
around the worla stepping at Tokyo has been poetponed
till noxs May.
The Japenese Government was informed that the
fLight bad been yestgoned; and it has noslfled the
Enbeany shat when the flighs Ls wndertaken next year
as

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.89)
it will again be necemmary to apply for permission
to land in Jan in uocordance with Artiele llo of
the Japanose Aviation Hegulations. The Jupanese
authorities almo desire to bo informed as to whether
wireless upyeratus, cameras, or rirearms will be
oarried on the flight. It is therofore requested
that the mbamay be Luformed as early as osaiole of
the approximate da e of the flight and of any other
Inforati n required by the Japanese authorities.
na it is aamumod that the route of the fiight
1/. ill e the same as origisall plunned, there is en-
olosed for tranem asion to ine avletore a set of in-
et ruotions 1aauec by the Japanone Govornment regard-
In the sourso to rollow over Japaneme territory and
informetlon rgarding che andis fiold.
hespeotnully yours,
mernorbea.
nolosure
W
1.  stated.
KPP/hln

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.89)
Instruotione of Japanese Cov rnment regurding
flights over Japanene territory and landlng fields
in Japan.
1. The aviati n courae ls to be ae followa:
(1) When flying to thie country:
Pron Vladivostok to Kisumigaura by aireot
course via adu Ialand.
(2) When fly to m rioa fro thin ountry:
Prom umigaur to merio by the D lken
(Great Cirele) oourse. However, when
this course cumot se taxen, the roite
aha to From munigaura to ito, then
followig the ahore, dlr t to i ako,
thenee over the seu eastward from
Lel0 40' et o1tudo to Cape rimomaki
and alo the east sldo of the hiohima
group ( urile I lands). via Cchiishi
flyi direotly a ove thoae la. wnds must
be avoided), to the Loutian Iolands.
(8) . iy reoth: aoove the oit: of okyo le
foroidaon.
2. The lse or take-otr to be a foll we:
Kas migaura Raval viati n lela.
The uee or the field will bo ludiouted wfter the
arrival o? the plane in this country.
8. The Imperil viat a eeulal ns rust be obaorved
while fly me withi the ter itor of the m. ire
of Japen.
4. It ls forbidien to oarry exploaives. weap na. ammni-
tion and caneres when yinm withi the territory
of the Empire of Jap n.
O. It is forbidden to fly over fortified sones and
dietriots aa proviied by rticle 7 of the aw
Governiag Fortiriea nes.
o. Detalle of the nerlal couree betweon merloa nd
Japan will be i ci pate fter the urrit I of the
plane in this ooutry.
7. It is aifrioult to render full protection when an
unexpoted Landing is mace nortn of Miyako.
The Ranmay of the asumigaura Naral Aviation Pield.
This runmey, at preeent the Longest available, is
abens lsoo metere eass so west. Eowever, a suitabie wind
for a tare-or? is very rare.
8

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.82)
In La a grans fiela withous any gocial dovise.
these is an obateele at the end ef the fiele to the
boighe s motere.
The Bremley plane failed on the first Sake-off,
using this ruomay.
The suamay usmally used is about l000 meters long
and is wishout any special device.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.90)
5
96
December 16 1980.
38
The Remerable
E. Cameren Ferbes,
Ameriean Ambasmeder.
Tokye.
air:
894.7961/6
There is transpitted herewith a cepy of des-
894.79610d1o0200/12
71.n.
pateh No. 35s of September 20, 1930, addressed by
the Censul General at Mukden to the Minister at
Peiping en the mbjest of Japanese requirements
fer sirplame flights ever the Seuth Manchuris
A
milway sene. In this despateh the Consul General
at Makkem reperts. (1) that in the ease of the
flight ef an Ameriean airplane frem Japan te China,
the Japamess Gevermment teek the positien that
"anier ne ciroumstaness may he (the Ameriean svie-
ter) fiy ever the Xwentung Leased Territery as
that is a fartified seme" and thst the permis-
siem of the Japanese Geverment mst be ebtained
for flights erer the Seath Maekaria Raily ae.
 (8) thet geliestim for peissim to fy
he Dgantet mald be ga to reesive, for

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.78)
-8
mséeeee eietins to the case.
Very truly years.
Fer the seeretony of mmases
Franois White
Emst canre:
Desgatah Ne. 35s, dated September 20, 19s0, te
Desping trem umnéen.
Raum.
B
tee sign'd o
UR
0.15.1050
mis

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.89)
REBD
EMBASSY OF THE
SOLICITOR'S OFFICE
12
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FER 14 1931
C0
2
Tokyo, January 1, 1=c1.
No. 103
3
6
5
Dirieion of
FAR EASTERD AFFNRS
JAN 27 31
23 1931
Cu  ln FE
Inshuctin to Pokyo
Februa 26 1981.
894.7961/7
fe
29.5
o
Assistaut Sevetary
of atate
12 1931
MR. WHITE
894c.7961
4.
961
8
893
The Honorole
the Sec r  tate,
ushi ten.
6A
3ir:
cl Pi  te
Depurtment's instraction lo. c8, uted Dece ber lo, leoo,
enclosin. a copy of acop-tch l.o. cse of septeber zo, lesc,
aduressed y the Jonsul- nerul ut ukuen to the .inister
FILED
at Peipine rejuruin the Japanese reguire ents for irple
3
flights ver the Jouth unchuriu u lway Zone, uni reguestin
1369
the Embassy's co .cnt on t is subject.
At the request or the Ford Coapany, the Eabassy, on
July 17, 1930, requested the Foreign O.fice to permit Ir.
Perry Hutton, an American aviator, to l: from Tokyo to
Osaka

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
Osaka and from Osaka to Urusan, Jhosen, ron Vich place
he desired to fl. to Mukuen.  is note wus sup le lented
by unouner, uated July l9th, recuestin perission for r.
Hutuon to land at Dairen to reruel nis cir lune. In a note,
dateu July i9th, t e Foreign . fice  or itted the rlight
within Jupunese juri aleti n but pr ibited landin at
Dairen. y reierence to hothor note, hich c ncerneu the
pro os d rli ht ef uhother m rican uviutor, the Forein
Office invened the viution Lu. mi rticle 7 of Forviried
zones Law to pro. tit f. in ver the kwalultly Leused
Territory, nu, n mu ust 4th, tiriei te .oussy raily
that r. utton shotla ot rl. ver she uth nchuria
Railway zone u til te  rission or the Ruilway had been
ranted.
Hr. Hutton huving left 1 kyo hen vis ssuge as
received, the abussy teleruphed the aerican onsuls
at Kobe unu seoul us roilows:
" Inform rerry Hutton urican viutor that he
nay not under any cirounstunces fly over Kwantung
Leased Territory as it is a rortifieu zone anu that
if he vises t ily over the South Manchuria Railway
one he shoulu ly throu  the abassy ror pur-
nissicn a reas naule length of time in uuvunce.
Report results".
On August sth, r. Vice onsul Stephan telegraphed
fron Seoul as rollows:
" Hutton understands tnat he may not fly over
Kwantung Leased rerritory but that permits arch
4th July 2oth btained through Embassy include
flight to ukden via antung".
" If further permission i. recuireu ror south
Manchuria Railway zone respectfully reguests
Enbassy's assistunce. Desires to leave here
August th,  a..".
The Embassy replied the same day:
" As Government offices now closed no reply
can be given to paragraph two of your telegram.
It would seem possible however for Hutton to fly
along the designated route from Keijo to Mukden
without flying over railway zone. Please reply".
on

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
On August 6th the Embassy despatched the following
telegram to the Jonsulates-ueneral at seoul and ukuen:
" Inforn Hutton, anerican aviator who is flying
to Mukden From Seoul, that purmission has been granted
for him to cross South Manchuria Railway one at ukden".
The Embassy verbally requested per lission to cross the zone,
and the Foreign Ofrice verbully trans itieu the permission
of the South anchuria Railway.
The question of crossing the Ruilway Zone arose from
the plan of r. Hutton to proceed to Shanghai from mukden.
He proposed originally to fly first to Jairen lu then
across the Gulf of Pec ili anu along the chinese cast to
Shanghai, but uue to the refusal of the authorities to
pernit hin to fly over, or refuel ut, Juiren, he was
obliged to cross tne Zone unu rly verlund to lientsin.
on October 18th, the nbassy rece ived u copy of
844.786- 2d mton12
despatch No. 53 sent by the  nsul Genera1 at ukden to
the inister at reiping, unu on cctober 29, 1930, it ad-
aressed a conmunication to the . rican minister inviting
comment on r. consul-General yers' duspatch.  copy
1/.
o1 this co.munication is enclosed. Thus far, no answer
2/.
has been received. a copy is also enclosed of the un-
official letter sent by the  bassy to the co lunuer-
in-Chief of the siatic Scuadron, hich is referred to
in the Embassy's comnunication to the Legation at Peiping.
As set forth in the co mmunication to the Legation, the
persons who supplied r. yers ith the information tnat
no permission had been asked ror or ranted to European
flyers who have crossed the Zone, may not have been in a
position to know the facts or to know whether or not the
Japanese Government had protested against violations of its
regulations.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
regul tions. With regara to unant orized rlying over rorti-
fied zone., it may be stated tnat an Italian aviator, ho
inadvertently landed during u fog ithin a rortified zone last
sunner, escaped the aonfiscation of his air lune by donating
it to the Japunese viation Jociety before judicial action had
been instituted. It is possible that the ench uviator Jostes
flew over bairen wnile rlying to hun hai, out there is no
evidence to snow t at the upulese uov ernnent di not protest
against the violation or its lavs or tnat it .oulu not have
proceeueu legully aguinst Jostes hau he returncu to Japanese
jurisuiction.
is a latter or fact, the abassy hus been iniormed un-
ofriciully by tne oreign frice tnat no uiscriminution has
been practiceu uuinst ericun uviutors, na that all rorei n
aviators huve veen re ireu to utuin per issi n vefore crossi ng
the Railwayne.
ihe Embassy s unuerstanuing of une larger uestion raisou
by r. Myers, that is to say, het er or ot the upanese
Goverment has the ri ht to require  rican aviators to obuain
er ission or the Japulese vefore rlying over the Xuilway Zone,
is inaicated by analogy in its letter above-mentionea to
Adniral Bristol. here uppears to be nothing in the abassy's
archives to inuicate that the Governnent of the United States
has made any distinction in the legal status of the Krantung
Leased ferritory und of the South anchuria ailway one. In
the two instances cited in the letter, the epart..ent ppears
to have taken the position in efrect that, while the soverei nty
over the territory covered by the lease rests with china, the
894.014
jurisdiction and the right of administration is vested in
the Power possessing the leasehold. It seemed reasonaole to
suppose

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.88)
-5-
uppose that Japan equally has jurisuiction ana the ri ht of
administration in he ailway one; I r, . hile the terms of the
agreements under hich unis ri nt is uxe iseu re not so clourly
defined us in the cuse ur the Kmantun Leaseu eritory, China, by
Article o of the ontruct or lo9u uetween hina unu the Russo-
Uhina Lank, vesteu the ri ht to uu nister  e Railway one in
the hinese astern lailway m luter conrirmeu the transfer
of tis i ht to uun.
I have not toucneu u on the e ect of tne re unrauin
by hina  th   e hi h n in
1915 ror tme xtehs n  the a mese lo seho1us upo the
recohi uion o the hiteu tates or the  se r nt of
administrution in the  r trles, us the assy es
not aypeur to uve receiveu ny iheuruti n in uis reurd.
Inhes
. umeron orbes.
Enclosures:
1. Jop or lr uo icun minir uu iping.
2. ops of luer ent by he uass. to u iral ristl.
Copy to reiping.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.94)
Lure No.
103
Tokyo, October 29, 19o0.
Sir:
The Enbassy has noticeu  ith some nverest the
observations made oy the consul General ut ukden in his
despatch to you uated Septe ber z0, 1950, ith re jara to
the Japanese recuiie lunts for uir lane rli  ts over the
South Manchuria ailway Lone.
In noting r. yers' stute ents, i the efrect that
French and Italian uviators hve crosseu the zone ithout
obtaining the consent I the tui lway, it occurs to the
Embassy tat no regulutions or this tenor a uhen nave
existed, or tat the persons e su lied r. yers with the
infemmation were net in u osttion to knov ir the tupanese
authorities had protested i uinst vislutions ef their regula-
tions. Indeed, it seeis most i pr buule t at the ulleged
flight of Jostes over a fortified area, such as Diren, would
have passed unnoticed. he Embassy ould, holever, be in-
terested in obtaining evidence from r. liyers of the pussage
over the Zone by foreign aircraft, subsequent to the passage by
ir.
The Honorable
Nelson Trusler Johnson,
American Minister,
Peiping.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
Mr. Hutton's plane, without he consent of the South Manchuria
Railway.
The Legution's co uent upon the last paragraph of .r. Myers'
despatch would be or great us istunce to the bassy, nose under-
standing of the rec nition b. our covernment of Juyan's auninis-
trative rights in the Kantung Leused lerritory, was set forth in
a ltter, ated Junury l, l0, to the Jonder-in-Jhief of
the Asiatic Scuadron, a cop. of wiu wus  orwarued to the Legation
on that date. Unfortunutely, the bassy's archives ao not indicate
whether or not our Govermment has, in this relation, ude any
distinction between the Leased erritory anu the Railway Zone.
A reference to the  vassy's elegram to the onsulate general,
quoted in r. yers' uespatch, inuicates that the vords "free
ports" were urronecusly substi vuted during trans.lission or in
decoding for "at ukden"
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servunt,
For the abussauor:
Lucene H. Dooman
First Secretar of mbassy.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.96)
103
C U P Y.
-okyo, Japan, January 1, 1929.
Admiral Mark L. Bristol,
Commander-in-chief, nited tates Asiatic Fleet,
Manila, P.I.
Dear Admiral Bristol:
Your letter of January l4th comes to remind me tat I
have forgotten t send you the in ormation regaruing the
status of the Leused rerritory or K antung, of which we
spoke on your lust visit.
In Foreign Relations or the united States for 1900
(pp. 382-389), there is a lengthy uiscussion or consular
jurisdiction at chinese ports leuseu to foreign povers.
The Department of tate asked the ini ter to ohina to
send a full unu explicit report on uis suoject. .r. conger
replied, tating that arter  conierelce vith his collea ues
in Peking he ascertained that all foreign I nisters, cxcept
the Japanese,  e e of the pinion that the control over ull
of these leased ports has during the existence of the lease
passed as absoluiely uway Trom the Hirese Government us if
the territory had been sola outri ht. e reported t at " the
Japanese claim that sovereignty is too imyortant a matter to
pass thus with a lease" (p. o85,. The Sec.etary or State
replied to this des atch (p.s86), enclosing a menoranuum of
the solicitor of the Department on t is subject. The nemo-
randum contains (p.389) the following panguage:
"The intention and effect of these le ases
appear to me to have been the relinquishment
by China, during the term of the leases, and the
conferring upon the foreign power in eaoh case of
all jurisdiction over the territory".
In

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
In Foreign Relations for 1903(p.o4), uppeurs a aespatch
dated March 20, 190, enclosing a copy and translation of the
regulations issued by the Russian Governnent for the establish-
ment of roreign consuls at Dalny(Dairen). The regulations
quoted pernit the presence of consular representatives at
Dalny and states tat their jurisuiction cntends tiroughout
the whole ter itory of Kantune, to the exclusion of -ort
Arthur and other fortified points. It further stutes uhut,
as Russian jurisuiction is enforceu t rou hout tne sd d
territory, roreign consuls at salny will uve no ri hts and
prerogatives beyond those .. icn ure accorueu to them throughout
the Russian Empire.
after the Russo-Jupunese ar the Muntun Leased territory
passed into the possession or . an. he Japanese opened
Dairen as a free ort on September 1, l9co. he opening of the
port was accompunied by the pro ulgution o. e ulutions re-
lative to vessels suiling to une from the various orts in
Kwantung. These are  rinced in i anslution on ages loul and
lo62 of Part 2 of oreign Relutions or ne nited states, 1906,
as an enclosure to a uesputch from the mbassauor at Tokyo
to the Secretary of State, ated september o, 19uo. They
seem to apply particularly to .t rc ant vessels, us rticle
8 of these regulations provides Tor the non-a lication of
certain of the rules to military ships.
In 19o9 the Vice Consul at vairen seeins to have raised
specifical ly the question or consular jurisuiction in the
Leased Territory of Kwantung, in a letter to the Ambassador
at Tokyo(Foreign Relations of the United States, 1909, p. 395,.
The Ambassador in reply referred to pages 382-90 of Foreign
Relations for 1900 and informed the Vice consul that he had
no

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
no extraterritorial consular jurisdiction in Dairen. He re-
forred to the faot that the Japanese Government had refused
to admit this prinoiple in the territory leased by Russia,
but added that when Japan in 1905 took over from Russia
the Leased Territory it was especially provided by Article
10 of the Treaty of rortsmouth that Russian subjeots in the
Territory should cone under exclusive Japanese jurisdiction.
The Seoretary of State replieu to the Anbassador on December
29, 1909(p. 396), stating that the Department had informed the
Consulate at Dalny that it a proved the ubassador's in-
struotion on the subject.
I have been unable to find any reference to this
subjeot in later volunes of Foreign Relations or in the
files of the Embassy. as ou undoubtedly ill note there is
no special reference to visits of men-of-war to leased
territories, und I do not mow hether this letter contains
enough information to serve your pur ose. t uny rate, it
1s all that i have. I do not quote the reference in full
because I assume tnat you will have access to the volumes
of Foreign Relations or the United States ut vanila or at the
open ports of china. If I can be of rurther assistance to
you please call on me.
With best pursonal wi hes,
Very sincerely yours,
Luwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Arruires ad interim.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.88)
FF
(mms)
94.7961
February 26 1931.
69
006.
Mwim L. Eeville, Esquire,
894.7961/7
Ameriean Chergé d'Affaires ad interim,
Tekye.
894.7961/7
1
with referenee to the Embassy's despateh No. l0s ef
Jammary 18, 19sl, and to the statement contaimed therein
(m page 4) that "there appears to be nothing in the
esay's arehives to indieate that the Govermment of
 mited States has made any distinction in the legal
status of the Erantung Leased Territory and of the South
大
Mamehurla Railway Seme", the attention of the Mabassy is
Ssrested in partioular to the Department's telegraphie
Imstrmetiom to the Embassy dated Jannary 3, 1921, 6 p.m.
 to ite m1l instmstien No. 44y dated Nareh 17, 1921,
relsting to the jurisdistion ef the Japanese autherities
#res Ameriean sitisens in the South Manekuria Railway
A eeay of the latter instreetiem is enslesed hege-
méth for eemvenienee ef reference.
Veny traly yere,
For the Secretary ef state:
W. R. Castle, Jr.
A true copy
the signed oriz
氧

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
fe
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
9.9
JAPANESE CONTROL OF AMERICAN AIRPLANE FLIGHTS
OVER SOUTH MANCHURIA RAILWAY AREA.
Mr. Miller:
In roply to the point raised that there is nothing
F
in its files to indioate that the United States Government
FW
has drawn a distinotion between the political status of the
Kwantung Leased Territory and of the South Manchuria Railway
894.7961/7
area, the Embassy at Tokyo should be referred to the follow-
ing correspondence representing the position of the United
States in the matter:
Foreign Relations, 1900, pp. 382-390-Extraterritorial Juris-
diction at Chinese ports leased to
foreign powers.
Ditto.
Foreign Relations, 1903, pp. 84- 85 .
Foreign Relations, 1909, pp.395,396 - Extraterritoriality in
the Leased Territory of Kwantung Province.
Foreign Relations, 19l0.,pp.202-231 - Proposed establishment
by the Chimese Eastern Railway of a
municipal administration at Harbin.
Department's Instruotion to Consul General at Muk en,Nov.19.
894.0144/14
1920, regarding taxation of American
citizens in the railway zone (Copy
enclosed).
Department's instruction Bo. 447 to Embassy, Tokyo, Maroh 17.
1921, wi th enolosed instruoti on No.
894.0144
992 of June 3, 1919, to Legation at
Peking, regarding jurisdiotion of
Japane se an thorities over Amerio
citizens in South Manchuria imway
area.
Department's telegram of January 3. 19al 6 p.m., to Emeasay
8940.111/17
Tokyo, wi thdrawing aoquiescence t生
Japanese passport inspeotion of Amer-
ican citizens in Japanese railways in
China.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
2
The corresp ondence lis ted above is not all there is on the
subjeot, but it is sufficient to indioate that whereas the United
States Government has held that the Kwan tung Leased Territory
is a part of Japan Proper to all intents and practical purposes,
it has consistently maintained that the South Manchuria Railway
Company is a commercial enterprise, drawing its rights from a
franohise issued to it as such by the Chinese Government, and
that there is no basis for the exercise of political furisdiction
over its lands by the Japanese Government.
Question of Control of Flights over Railway Area. The
Japanese Government wishes American flvers to obtain the permis-
sion of the South Manchuria Rai lway Company before flying orer
its lands. In the case of Aviator Hutton (JUTy 1930), this
permission was obtained from the Jananese Government throu gh
diplomatic channels.
Inasnuch as the South Manchuria Rai lway Company actually
exercises municipal functions in Japanese settlements al ong the
railway, and as there are many large open spaces there which
might be used for foroed landings or other purposes, it might
be merely common courtesy to seek an understanding beforehand
with the Company regarding projeoted or possible flights over its
town sites (as distinguished from its right of way), after

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
3
of course, general permission to fly over the country had been
reoeived from the Chinese Government. Such an understanding
could
ght be negetaated locally. perhaps between the American and
Japanese Consuls General at Mukden. The wishes of the Japanese
Government would thus be met to a certain extent without 
raising
the question of political jurisdiction over the
rai lway areas.
There appears to be no necessity for seeking permission
through diplomatic channels to fly either over the Company's
town sites or railroad right of way, since such procedure
cannot but be a mere formality, Japan having no legal right
to prohibit American flyers from flying anywrere in China
outside of the Kwan tung, Leased Territory. Inasmuch as the
apparentuseful, purpose
formality not only serres no but moreover involves the question
of Iapanese political jurisdiction or sovereignty over the
Company's lands, which it is understood the United States has
never been disposed to recognize, we should avoid meeting the
Japanese requirement that "all foreign aviators shall obtain
permission (presumably through the Foreign Office) to fly over
n
the railway area."
It is believed that we would be standing on firm ground
in declining to meet the Japanese regrirement. It is a generaly
accepted prinoiple that every power has sovereignty over the

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
of 1919
air above its territory. The Paris.Convention/for the
Regulation of Aerial Navigation, to which China and Japan
are parties, provides in Article 1 that
"the High Contracting parties recognize that every
power has complete and exclusive sovereignty over
the air space above its territory.
For the purposes of the present co nvention the
territory of a state shall be understood as inoluding
the national territory, both that of the mother
country and of the colonies, and the territ rial
waters adjacent thereto."
area
There is no question that the railway/is Chinese terri-
tory and in no sense a colony of Japan. Numerous treaty stip-
ulations could be quoted showing that China retains sovereignty
and political jurisdiction over the railway area. Aooording to
the internationally agcepted principle ralating to aerial
navigation quoted above, therefore, China has sovereignty over
the air space above the railway area as well as over the area,
we are only under
and texxammgtxexkmexrexexmkgnxrmaddmktamnddxmax obligationg
to seoure China's p rmission to use the air abore the railway
area
aRl.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.90)
BIIL
121
rtnent ofState
Washington,
6
Pobruary 141981.
4m
FEB16 31
894.7961/7A
AMMBASSY
TOKYO, JAPAN
24
Fer Dooman. For purposes of record please transmit
in effieial despatch copies of enclosures with your
personal letter to Hornbeck dated January 27, 1931.
Alse for guidance as tó procedure in future cases of
this, kind please olarify meaning of the phrase "ask fer
the understanding of our authorities" used in undated
precis sent you by Mr. Tani. Does this mean only "the
ceurtesy of receiving previous intimation" as stated in
your memorandum of January 15?
SSiuom
any
FEB16 31
896.7961/7 A
FEB
nalu.
CR
PE

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE SOLICITOR
MEMORANDUM
February 13, 1931.
CEIVED
31
Division of
DVION OF
FEB 13 1931
Mr. Miller
I see no objection to the attached draft
telegram, but I am inclined to think that the
phrase concerning which you inquire must be
interpreted in the sense suggested by you and
reported in Dooman's memorandum of January 15.
8O:FXW:VGN:SS

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
SBLAGNOR'S OFFIGE
Tokyo, February 18, 13
No. 150.
Uupy to Peking.
Divioimp or
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
-fie
DA13 1931
Ege
894.7961/
No distribution.
1231
M. M.H
S
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIUNAL CONFERENCES
AND PROTOCOL
A 1931
8
2.7
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
844.7961
MAR 3 1 1931
FILED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
SIC
Washington.
Sir:
Conformably to the instruotions contained in the
Department's telegram No. 24, dated February 16th 4 p.m.,
and supplementing the Embassy's despatoh No. 130, dated
January 12, 1931, I have the honor to enolose copies of
1-3/.
memoranda of oonversations whioh I had with Mr. Tani,
Chief of the Asia Bureau in the Foreign Office, con-
cerning the question of the crossing of the South Manchu-
ria Railway Zone by American aviators.
It will be observed from the enclosed translation
of the précis of the case of the American aviator who
orossed

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
ch 19, 1931.
Mr. Dooman reports
that Mr. Tani, Chief of
the Asia Bureau in the
Foreign Office, when
asked to define his use
of the word "understand-
ing" relating to flights
of airplanes over the
South Manchuria Railway
sone, replied that he
did not wish to discuss
the question of the
status of the railway
zone but that there might
be circumstances in which
it would be undesirable to
have foreign aviators fly-
ing over the zone; and
that therefore the author-
ities might possibly wish
to "inform the aviator
that it would be desirable
for him to defer the
flight. Under these
ciroumstances, Mr. Tani
continued, the authorities
would like to be advised
of the aviators plan to
fly over the Zone at a
certain time and place, in
order to have a sufficient
opportunity of considering
the matter in all its bear-
ings."
I augsert ther no fun the actim be
tarenat precent.
Rsm.
FE: RSM: EJL
Icoal N.P.].

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
orossed the Zone last summer, which was prepared for
Mr. Tani by the seoretary in the Foreign Office who was
in charge of it, that the secretary asserts that he did
not inform the Embassy that it would be necessary for
the aviator to obtain "permission" to cross the Zone,
but that he had merely expressed the hope that the"under-
standing" of the Japanese authorities would be requested
beforehand. Mr. Tani regretted the misunderstanding which
had taken place, particularly as the secretary had failed
to correot it after he had been informed that the Embassy
had instruoted the aviator to ask for permission before
orossing the Zone. He said that in any event all the
Foreign Office desired in instances of this kind is
previous intimation, " just as one would call out to a
neighbor", he added, "before crossing his back-yard".
When I oalled on Mr. Tani on January 26th for the second
time, he hoped that I would not record his use of this
simile, as upon second thought he feared that it might
oonvey a wrong impression of the attitude of the Foreign
Office. He said that his country has adequate grounds for
olaiming administrative rights in the Zone, but he could
not see that any useful purpose would be served by entering
into a disoussion over it, as the Foreign Office had not,
and would not, formally require American aviators to obtain
permission before crossing the Zone.
I oalled again on Mr. Tani today and asked him whether
he would care to explain in definitive terms his use of the
word "understanding" in these circumstances. Mr. Tani ob-
served that he did not wish, in this connection, to disouss
the

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
the question of the status of the Railway Zone, but said
that it would not be difficult to oonceive of a situation in
which it would be undesirable to have foreign aviators flying
over the Zone, on account of the possible effect upon the civil
population and the various buildings and erections in the Zone;
that in view of such possibilities, the competent authorities
would consider the notification by the foreign aviator of
his plan to traverse the Zone in the light of the possible
effects of the projected flight upon the maintenance of public
order, and that then they might possibly inform the aviator
that it would be desirable for him to defer the flight. Under
these circumstanoes, Mr. Tani continued, the authorities would
like to be advised of the aviator's plan to fly over the Zone
at a certain time and place, in order to have a sufficient
opportunity of considering the matter in all its bearings.
In the precis prepared for Mr. Tani, the secretary in
the Bureau of European and Amerioan Affairs who handled Mr.
Hutton's case states that he informed me that Mr. Hutton
would be required to obtain "permission" to fly over the
Kwantung Leased Territory and the "understanding of the
authorities" to cross the Zone. This is entirely imaginary.
The distinotion between the two areas was made, so far as the
Embassy is concerned, only after my recent inquiry.
Respectfully yours,
For the Chargé d'Affaires,
EugonoH.Dooman,
First Seoretary of Embassy.
Enclosures:
1-3
Copies of Memoranda and
Preois.
Gopy to Poking.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
MEMORANDUM.
I called today on Mr. Tani, Chief of the Asia Bureau,
at his request to discuss the requirements for airplane
flights over the South Manohuria Railway Zone.
Mr. Tani said that when he discussed the matter with
me on a previous occasion he knew little of the ciroum-
stances of Hutton's case, as it had been handled by the
European and American Bureau, and that he had therefore
had that Bureau prepare a précis of the case for him.
He then read aloud the precis, which was a substantially
accurate relation of the ciroumstances, except for the
faot that the secretary who had handled the case alleged
that he had told the Embasay that Hutton was required to
obtain the understanding of the authorities in the case of
the Railway Zone and permission in the case of the Kwantung
Leased Territory. I told Mr. Tani that this was not true,
as the secretary had not distinguished in any way between
the two areas and had repeatedly said permission would be
required by Hutton to cross the Zone. I added that if the
seoretary were under the impression that he had made this
distinotion, he would undoubtedly have notioed the mis-
understanding when he received my note, saying that I had
instruoted Hutton to ask for permission before crossing
the Zone.
Mr. Tani regretted that this misunderstanding had
arisen, as the Foreign Vffice was anxious that the question
of the status of the Zone should not be raised. He explained
that

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
that Hutton's case had been handled by the European and
American Bureau, as that division has to do with foreign
aviators. He believed that this would sufficiently
support his statement that this case was regarded as a
routine matter, because if the Foreign Office had thought
that it involved questions of policy, particularly anything
so serious as the status of the Zone, it would have been
handled by his bureau. He repeatedly offered his assurances
that his Government would not require American aviators
to ask for permission to cross the Zone, and that it only
desired the courtesy of receiving previous intimation.
I said that this appeared to be a most unfortunate
affair, as it resolved itselr into a dispute between the
secretary and me regarding the facts of a previous con-
versation, and that I had never before had this experience
during almost ten years' dealings with the Foreign ffice.
EHD.
January 15, 1931.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
MEMORANDUM.
Mr. Tani, Chief of the Asia Bureau, again asked me to
oall on him to talk over the Hutton case.
He said that he had consulted the secretary on the
point I had raised, that is, his failure to correot the
misunderstanding when he received my note saying that
Hutton had been told to get permission before orossing the
Zone, and that the secretary admitted his negligence but
insisted that he had distinguished between the Zone and the
Leased Territory. I told Mr. Tani that I saw no need of
pursuing the matter further, but that I thought it obvious
I should not have written the note if the point had not
been brought up by the secretary.
Mr. Tani again regretted the misunderstanding, and
added that he did not consider it necessary to express any
opinion as to the right of the Japanese Government to require
foreign aviators to obtain permission to cross the Zone,
as entirely apart from what the secretary had actually
said, the Foreign Office had not officially laid down this
requirement and had no intention of doing so. He repeated
what he had told me before, that all that was desired was
the understanding of the authorities whenever a foreign
aviator proposed to oross the Zone.
EHD.
Jamuary 26, 1931.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
TRANSLATION.
The American Embassy, in a note verbale dated July 19,
l93o, expressed the hope that permission would be granted to the
Amerioan aviator Perry Hutton, who was flying from Mukden to
Shanghai, to land at Dairen.
In reply, it was stated by a note verbale, dated July 29,
that although permission to land at Dairen could not be granted,
it would be appreciated if the flight from Mukden to Shanghai
were made, if the Foreign ffice could be notified of the proposed
route. At the same time, the secretary in charge of the case
telephoned Mr. Dooman of the American Embassy that, in the event
the aviator proposed to fly over the Railway Zone and the Kwantung
Leased Territory(Note: while flying over the Leased Territory
would not be permitted, flying over the adjacent islands would
be permitted), it was hoped that he would previously ask for
the understanding of our authorities(Note: this applies to the
South Manchuria Railway Zone) or for their permission(Note:
this applies to the Kwantung Leased Territory), and that a course
for the aviator to follow would be prescribed.
A communication was received on August 4th, stating that Mr.
Hutton had been notified not to cross the Railway Zone or the
Leased Territory until the authorities hed granted permission,
and that Mr. Hutton would proceed to Shanghai via Tientsin and
Peking, and not along the Railway Zone.
Subsequently Mr. Dooman asked me by telephone whether
it would be necessary for Mr. Hutton to obtain permission to
oross the Railway Zone if he flew from Mukden to Peking or
landed at Mukden, and he was informed that permission would
not be required.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
27220
July 15, 1931.
No. 274.
of State
AUu11931
AL
abant
MR. WHITE am
131
Division of
DEPARTMENT OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
F
AUG 7 1931
JT1T
Department ot State
Co uy, im 1c
ASSISTANT EC
c/quF≤
894.7961/9
RITRIUOEK
TREATY DIVISION
DEC 29 1931
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2. War.
3. hany.
JTK
A 14 1431
AUG 1 8 1931
The Honorable
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
Supplementing the Embssy's despatoh No. 1136,
of March 27, 1929, with which was transmitted
certain information for the use of foreign airmen
flying to and in Japan, I have the honor to trans-
mit herewith copies in translation of stipulations
in regard to such flights, received as enclosures to
notes from the Foreign Office. In recent months a
considerable number of requests for permission for
flights

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
flights in Japan have been received from American
aviators, and since the stipulations made in each
case by the Foreign Office are practically identical,
it may be of value for the Department to have copies
at hand for reference.
1/.
It will be noted that the first enclosure relates
to flights to Japan from trans-Pacific points, whereas
2/. the second enclosure relates to flights from the siatic
3/. continent. The third enolosure was received in answer
to an application for permission to make flights over
various parts of Japan and is interesting us it shows
the very strict limitations imposed on flights made
in Japan by foreign aviators.
Respectfully yours,
A. lameron Forber
W. Janeron Forbes,
Enclosures:
mbassador.
1-3. Stipulations
of Japanese Government
regarding air flights.
Copy to Peking.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
Bnclosure No.1
274
Despatch No.
Prom Ameri a u asoy
Pacifio points.
1. Route of flight shall be as follows:
From the southern end of Kamchatka along
the eastern side of the Kurile Islands
(flight over any of the Kurile Islands
is prohibited), via Ochi-ishi to Erimo-
saki, and eastward of l4l' 40" east
longitude over the sea directly to Miyako,
thence along the coast railway line from
Mito to Tachikawa. Flight over Tokyo city
is prohibited.
2. The landing field is as follows:
Tokyo Flying Field (Tachikawa achi,
Tama Gun, Tokyo Fu).
3. When flying over Japanese territory, the
laws and regulations governing aviation of Japan
must be observed.
4. When flying over Japanese territory, ex-
plosives, military weapons, amnunition, and cameras
may not be carried.
5. It is prohibited to fly over strategio zones
or areas designated in rticle 7 of the Strategic
Zone Law, as Well as over naval ports and auxiliary
naval ports.
6. As soon as the date and hour of arrival are
determined, they must be reported i mediately.
7. If a forced landing is made north of Miyako,
it will be difficult to render effective aid.
* * * * * * *

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosura o.2
Deopt274
Prom Axerican Embassy
Regulations governing flights to Japan from the Asiatic
Tokyo.
Continent.
1. Route of flight shall be as follows:
Shingishu, Heijo, Keijo, Taikyu, the
vicinity of Urusan, Kadoshima, Hiroshima,
Osaka, Kozu, or to the northwest via
Atsugi, to Tachikawa.
2. Flying fields are as follows:
Keijo Flying Field;
Urusan Flying Field;
Osaka Flying Field (Kitsukawashiri);
Tokyo Flying Field (Tachikawa).
3. Energency flying fields are as follows:
Flying Field of the Sixth viation Regiment
(Daidoko Men, Heian Nando, Chosen);
Taikyu Parade Ground;
Hiroshima Parade Ground;
Okayama Parade Ground;
Flying Field of the Seventh Aviation Regiment
(Hikiba, Hamana-gun, Shizuoka Prefeoture).
4. When f1 ying over Japanese territory, the laws
and regulations of Japun governing aviation must be ob-
served.
5. When flying over Japanese territory, explosives,
military weapons, mmunition, nd cameras may not be
carried.
6. It is prohibited to fl y over fortified zones and
areas designated y Article 7 of the Fortified Zone Law,
as well as naval ports and auxiliary naval ports.
7. The instructi ons of the chiefs of the flying
fields with regard to details of the above-mentioned
prohibited areas and flying routes must be observed.
8. At the first point of landing on Japanese ter-
ritory provision must be made for payment of customs
duty on the airplane used. On condition of re-export of
the airplane within one year, the foregoing requirement
shall not apply provided a sum suitable in proportion to
the amount of duty payable shall be deposited to avoid
payment of customs duties, or in case arrangement is
made to furnish a guarantee for the amount of customs
duty payable by some person of standing who is a resident
of that place.
9. As soon as definitely decided, the day and hour
of arrival must be reported.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
Bnolosure No.3
Despatch No.
274
Prom American u assy
Regulations goverming flights over various partroyo Japan.
1. Routes of flight shall be as follows:
(a) When Tachikawa is used as a base -
(1) Between Tachikawa and Osaka -
Proceeding:
Tachikawa, Atsugi,
Kozu or passing to
the northwest toward
Osaka.
Returning:
The reverse of this
route.
(2) Between Tachikawa and Fuji -
Proceeding:
Tachikawa, atsugi,
Kozu or to the north-
west to Fuji.
Returning:
The reverse of this
route.
(3) Between Tachikawa and Sendai -
Proceeding:
From Tachikawa follow-
ing the Tohoku Main Line
railway to Utsunomiya,
Fukushima and Sendai.
Returning:
The reverse of this
route.
(b) When proceeding to Mukden and Peking -
Tachikawa, Atsugi, Kozu or passing to
the northwest (of Kozu) to Osaka, Oka-
yama, Hiroshima, Tsunoshima, the vicinity
of Urusan, Taikyu, Keijo, Heijo, Shingishu
and thence to Mukden.
2. Landing fields are as follows:
Tokyo: Tokyo Flying Field (Tachikawa)
Osaka: Osaka Flying Field (Kitsugawashiri)
Keijo: Keijo Flying Field (Jokeito, Ryukomen)
3. Provisional fields:
Nagoya:
Obatagahara Parade Ground.
Sendai:
Miyaginohara Parade Ground.
Fukushima: Has no landing field.
4. When it is intended to depart or arrive at the
Tokyo, Osaka and Keijo flying fields, notification shall
be made to the Chief of the flying field comerned at
least one week in advance and the necessary instructions
received from him. Moreover, since the Tokyo Flying
Field is jointly used by the military au thorities, the

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
date and time of flight are subject to change or
limitation. Furthermore, since the Nagoya and Sendai
flying fields are military parade grounds, permission
of the Commandant of the Division and the commander-
in-Chief of the Distriot must be obtained and the
request should be made at least ten days in advance.
5. With reference to the above-mentioned flying
fields, their use is subject to the exigencies of the
military authorities, and permission may be refused
or cancelled or the date and time ohanged.
6. Flight over Tokyo City: When flying over Tokyo
City, the provisions of Artiole 50 of the Aviation Law
and Artioles 103 and 105 of the Rules and Regulations
of the Aviation Law must be complied with, and applica-
tion for permission must be made to the Police Depart-
ment one week in advance of the flight and permission
reoeived therefrom.
7. In flying over Japanese territory, the provisions
of the Imperial Aviation Law must be observed, and it is
prohibited to fly over fortified zones and distriots
defined by Article 7 of the Fortified Zone Law, military
ports, secondary naval ports, and in addition, Hiratsuka
and Tokuyama.
8. When flying over Japanese territory it is pro-
hibited to carry cameras and articles prohibited by
Article 26 of the International ir Navigation Treaty.
9. With regard to particulars of zones prohibited
to aviators, and routes fixed for flying, the instructions
of the chiefs of the landing fields must be followed.
10. Transportation of passengers or freight for
pay is prohibited.
* * * * * * *

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY:IMS:SS
COMP: 
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 274.
Tokyo, July 15, 1931.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
Supplementing the Embassy's despatch No. 1136,
of March 27, 1929, with which was transmitted certain
information for the use of foreign airmen flying to
and in Japan, I have the honor to transmit herewith
copies in translation of stipulations in regard to
such flights, received as enclosures to notes from
the Foreign Office. In recent months a considerable
number of requests for permission for flights in
Japan have been received from American aviators, and
since the stipulations made in each case by the
Foreign Office are practically identical, it may be
of value for the Department to have copies at hand
for reference.
1/.
It will be noted that the first enclosure
relates to flights to Japan from trans-Pacific points,
2/.
whereas the second enclosure relates to flights from
3/.
the Asiatic continent. The third enclosure was re-
ceived in answer to an application for permission to
make flights over various parts of Japan and is inter-
esting as it shows the very strict limitations imposed
on flights made in Japan by foreign aviators.
Respectfully yours,
W. CAMERON FORBES,
Enclosures:
1-3. Stipulations
Ambassador.
of Japanese Government
regarding air flights.
Copy to Peking.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY:IMS:SS
COMP:_dju
Regulations governing flights to Japan from trans-
Pacific points.
1. Route of flight shall be as follows:
From the southern end of Kamchatka along
the eastern side of the Kurile Islands
(flight over any of the Kurile Islands
is prohibited), via Ochi-ishi to Erimo-
saki, and eastward of l41' 40" east
longitude over the sea directly to Miyako,
thence along the coast railway line from
Mito to Tachikawa. Flight over Tokyo City
is prohibited.
2. The landing field is as follows:
Tokyo Flying Field (Tachikawa Machi,
Tama Gun, Tokyo Fu).
3. When flying over Japanese territory, the
laws and regulations governins avi ati on of Japan
must be observed.
4. When flying over Japanese territory, ex-
plosives, military weapons, ammunition, and cameras
may not be carriea.
5. It is prohibited to fly over strategic zones
or areas designated in Article 7 of the Strategic
Zone Law, as well as over naval ports and auxiliary
naval ports.
6. As soon as the date and hour of arrival are
determined, they must be reported immediately.
7. If a forced landing is made north of Miyako,
it will be difficult to render effective aid.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 1.00)
Regulations governing flights to Japan from the Asiatic
Continent.
1. Route of flight shall be as follows:
Shingishu, Heijo, Kei jo, Taikyu, the
vicinity of Urusan, Kadoshima, Hiroshima,
Osaka, Kozu, or to the northwest via
Atsugi, to Tachikawa.
2. Flying fields are as follows:
Keijo Flying Field;
Urusan Flying Field;
Osaka Flying Field (Kitsukawashiri);
Tokyo Flying Field (Tachikawa).
3. Emergency flying fields are as follows:
Flying Field of the Sixth Aviation Reginent
(Daidoko Men, Heian Nando, Chosen);
Taikyu Parade Ground;
Hiroshima Parade Ground;
Okayama Parade Ground;
Flying Field of the Seventh Aviation Regiment
(Hikiba, Hamana-gun, Shizuoka Prefecture).
4. When flying over Japanese territory, the laws
and regulations of Japan governing aviation must be ob-
served.
5. When flying over Japanese territory, explosives,
military weapons, ammunition, and cameras may not be
carried.
6. It is prohibited to fly over fortified zones and
areas designated by Article 7 of the Fortified Zone Law,
as well as naval ports and auxiliary naval ports.
7. The instructions of the chiefs of the flying
fields with regard to details of the above-mentioned
prohibited areas and flying routes must be observed.
8. At the first point of landing on Japanese ter-
ritory provision must be made for payment of customs
duty on the airplane used. On condition of re-export of
the airplane within one year, the foregoing requirement
shall not apply provided a sum suitable in proportion to
the amount of duty payable shall be deposited to avoid
payment of customs duties, or in case arrangement is
made to furnish a guarantee for the amount of customs
duty payable by some person of standing who is a resident
of that place.
9. As soon as definitely decided, the day and hour
of arrival must be reported.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 1.00)
Regulations governing flights over various parts of Japan.
1. Routes of flight shall be as follows:
(a) When Tachikawa is used as a base -
(1) Between Tachikawa and Osaka -
Proceeding: Tachikawa, Atsugi,
Kozu or passing to
the northwest toward
Osaka.
Returning:
The reverse of this
route.
(2) Between Tachikawa and Fuji -
Proceeding:
: Tachikawa, Atsugi,
Kozu or to the north-
west to Fuji.
Returning:
The reverse of this
route.
(3) Between Tachikawa and Sendai -
Proceeding: From Tachikawa follow-
ing the Tohoku Main Line
railway to Utsunomiya,
Fukushima and Sendai.
Returning:
The reverse of this
route.
(b) When proceeding to Mukden and Peking -
Tachikawa, Atsugi, Kozu or passing to
the northwest (of Kozu) to Osake, Oka-
yama, Hiroshima, Tsunoshima, the vicinity
of Urusan, Taikyu, Keijo, Hei jo, Shingishu
and thence to Mukden.
2. Landing fields are as follows:
Tokyo: Tokyo Flying Field (Tachikawa)
Osaka: Osaka Flying Field (Kitsugawashiri)
Keijo: Kei jo Flying Field (Jokeito, Ryukomen)
3. Provisional fields:
Nagoya:
Obatagahara Parade Ground.
Sendai:
Miyaginohara Parade Ground.
Fukushima: Has no landing field.
4. When it is intended to depart or arrive at the
Tokyo, Osaka and Keijo flying fields, notification shall
be made to the Chief of the flying field concerned at
least one week in advance and the necessary instructions
received from him. Moreover, since the Tokyo Flying
Field is jointly used by the military au thorities, the

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
date and time of flight are subject to change or
limitation. Fur thermore, since the Nagoya and Sendai
flying fields are military parade grounds, permission
of the Commandant of the Division and the Commander-
in-Chief of the District must be obtained and the
request should be made at least ten days in advance.
5. With reference to the above-mentioned flying
fields, their use is subject to the exigencies of the
military au thorities, and permission may be refused
or cancelled or the date and time changed.
6. Flight over Tokyo City: When flying over Tokyo
City, the provisions of Article 30 of the Aviation Law
and Articles 103 and 105 of the Rules and Regulations
of the Aviation Law must be complied wi th, and applica-
tion for permission must be made to the Police Depart-
ment one week in advance of the flight and permission
received therefrom.
7. In flying over Japanese territory, the provisions
of the Imperial Aviation Law must be observed, and it is
prohibited to fly over fortified zones and districts
defined by Article 7 of the Fortified Zone Law, military
ports, secondary naval ports, end in addition, Hiratsuka
and Tokuyama.
8. When flying over Japanese territory it is pro-
hibited to carry cameras and articles prohibited by
Article 26 of the International Air Navigation Treaty.
9. With regard to particulars of zones prohibited
to aviators, and routes fixed for flying, the instructions
of the chiefs of the landing fields must be followed.
10. Transportation of passengers or freight for
pay is prohibited.
* *
* * * *

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
800.79611 Pangborn-erndon
Tel. 117 50..
SEE
FOR
F115E736
894.7961
FROM
Japan
Perbs
) DATED
Au ust 10,1.31.
TO
NAME
1-1172
REGARDING: lak in of ovin icuures of Jmuse fortified zones
by esoriean avia .ors seradon wid Pongborn without per-
isu on hus c ca ed lis luasure in o Picial circles in Japan.
O
P.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.88)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE0.7911
FOR
/38
894.796
FROM.
Japan.
(.) DAD l,l.
TO
NAME
1-1172
REGARDING:J
rd
1
iviclno luw
or err. in . t6
rizedit
P.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
I.e
A-2.
JH
TOKIO
This telegram must be closely
paraphrased before being
Dated August 13, 1931
communicated to anyone.
Rec'd. 8:25 a.m.
Secpetary of State,
Washington.
394
120, August 13, 2 p.m.
394
Department's 132, August 12, 5 p.m.
One. Herndon and Pangborn had no permit to fly
in Japan. They had permission to land in Japan if
compelled by stress of weather or other circumstances
894
in the course of their world flight. In such case they
were to remain at their landing place and notify the
~
authorities and be guided by their instructions
(Erbassy's 80, June 11th, noon).
Officially they have not so far been actually
jailed but have been subjected to rigorous examination
by the police and the procurator (Public Prosecutor).
They will probably be brought before a magistrate shortly.
The three gravest charges against them are carrying and
using moving picture camera without permission on
unauthorized flight over fortified territory. I shall
keep the Department informed as to the outcome.
hree. The Japanese official attitude is that they
03
8
should

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
OJH
Page 2 - #120 from Tokio.
should reoeive some punishment for violating the law,
there is also some ohauvinistic incitement in the more
sensational press. This element insists that they are
spies. Among the more intelligent element there is a
mixture of admiration for their achievement in getting
to Tokyo without a chart and annoyance at the joyride
manner in which it was accomplished.
Four. They have personally made a good impression
on the people,they have met and seem to have created
no personal resentments.
FORBES
WSB
HPD

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.7961/1
800.79611 Pangborn-Herndon
SEE
FORTe1#134-7pm
Flight/49
2
FROM
) DATED
Aug14,1931.
TO
NAME
1-1127
Japan
REGARDING:
Flight of Pangborn and Herndon to Japan.
Advises of inguiries made regarding the detention
of the above persons by the Japanese Government,
due to an infraction of the airplane regulations of
that country.
mc

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.95)
IN
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
DIVISION OF
OFFICE OF THE
12
LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS
AUG 3 1 1931
WASHINGTGLE
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
Zean 
AUG2931
Conmned
FRC
96
Sept 4,1931
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
894.7961/1
My dear Mr. Secretary:
We enclose a letter from the librarian of the Aero-
nautical Chamber of Commerce requesting infonnation as to
regulations zoverning flights by Anerican airnen in Japan,
and also a copy of our reply, in whic! we have stated that
we will refer the letter to the Department of tate.
May we request that you furnish the Aeronautical
Chamber of Connerce the desired information, i! it is
available?
Very sincerely,
larane lu Sonng
Clarence M. Young,
Acting Secretary of Comnerce.
Enclosures:(2)
SEr14 1931
FLLEL

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.94)
Srrtember 14 1982.
The Honorable
The Sesretary of Commeree.
128
89
The receipt is acknowledged of your Department's
letter of August 27, 1931, enolosing for the considera-
6
tien of this Department a letter dated August 19, 1931,
9
from Miss v. P. Swerig, Librarian of the Asrensutical
Chamber of Commeres, requesting information as to the
3
Fegulations governing flights in Japan by American airmen.
Reference is made to the Department's Iciter of
September 2, 193l, in reply to a commumication from your
Department dated August 17, 1931, containing a draft
statement for publication of the requirements of eertain
foreign countries applicable to flights in these coumtries
by American airmen. As stated by the Department, the
Amerioan Embassy in Tokyo was requested to furnish a brief
stasement in regard to the Japanese requirements far in-
oerperation in the propesed publioation. A reply hes
beem

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.92)
2
beem recsived from the Eabassy in Tokyo the substamse
of whicn tas eomsunsowteactoeyour Departmenttcant-letter
tatodgseptembes t. yoss tepeuggested thaesysert Deparsssht
may desire to furnish
/ Miss Swerig with the information in regard to Japanese
requirements whioh the Department is commumicating to yom.
The letter addressed to you by Miss Swerig is here-
with returned.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
FAaNUTS WHITE
Assistant Secre
Enclosure:
Letter.
A true copy of
the signe
nrig-
Rum.
inal.
8.1931.
FE
m.m.4.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AERONAUTICS BRANCH
WASHINGTON
August 27, 1931.
Miss v. P. Swerig, Librarian,
Aeronautical Chaaber of Commerce,
10 East 40th Street,
New York, N. Y.
My dear Miss Swerig:
This will acknowledge recsip' of your letter of August
19, with reference to procedure governing flights in foreign
countries by American airmen.
We have referreo your Letter to the Department of State
with a request that they supply you wit! in'ormation as to
regulations in Japan.
As of possible interest, we enclose a copy of the AIR
COMERCE BULLETIN or April 1, 1931, on page 498 of which
there is an article giving information which supplements that
in the artiele whieb you mentioned in your letter.
Assuring you of our desire to be of assistancs whenever
possible, I 
Very truly yours,
Fredorick R. Neely.
Chief, Aeronmutic Information Division.
Enclosure.
GG:L

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
TD:EDW
AERONAUTICAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
of AMERICA, Inc.
10 East 40th Street
NEW YORK
August 19, 1931.
Aeronautics Branch
Department of Commerce
Washington, D.C.
Gentlemen:
We note that in the Air Commerce Bulletin of July 15,
193l, the article on the Procedure Governing Flights
in Foreign Countries by American Airmen, does not
include regulations covering flying in Japan.
If you have available more complete information on
flying regulations in foreign countries, we should
appreciate receiving it for our files.
Very truly yours,
V. P. SWERIG, Librarian.
MZ

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894:7961
SEE
800.79611 Pangborn-Herndon
FOR.
Tel.#129 5p.m.
Flight/88
FROM .....Japan
(..Forbe.....) DATED.August.30,1931
TO
NAME
1-1172
5
REGARDiNG: Violation of Japanese aviation laws and regulations by
Japanese aviator,who was consequently deprived of his
flying license for at least three months.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
WP
GREEN
Tokyo
Dated August 30, 1931
Rec'd 9:15 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
129, August 30, 5 p. m.
My telegram number 128, August 27, 3 p. m.
One. I had another opportunity the other evening
to discuss the Herndon Pangborn case with the Minister
for Foreign Affairs, who suggested that I speak directly
with the Minister of Communications who was also present.
I explained to the latter that the case was receiving
much public attention in the United States. He said that
he realized it and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs
had been urging him to come to a speedy decision. He said
that he had to consult the army and the navy and that there
were a number of legal points involved. One point was that
a Japanese pilot who has been convicted of offenses against
the aviation laws and regulations is as a matter of ad-
ministrative practice deprived of his flying license for
at least three months. There was some opposition of grant-
ing more favorable treatment to foreigners than to Japanese.
I

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 - No. 129 from Tokyò
I said that I hoped he would be able to come to a decision
soon. He said that he would make every effort to get a
favorable deoision as he understood the need for early
action. He wound up the conversation by saying "it wont
take long", by that I understand he means about September
first.
Two. In view of these conversations I have not
presented the note referred to in my letter and the Depart-
ment's telegram.
FORBES
Ox

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
800.79611 Pangborn-Herndon Flight/7R Bespatoh #302
SEE
894.7961
Japan
Neville
August 13,1931.
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1172
REGARDING: Violation of Japanese aviation regulations and rules
by American aviators Pangborn-Herndon who landed in
Japan August 6 without a proper landing permit in the
9
course of their flight around the world.
P.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.92)
Tokyo, ug st 15, 1931.
No. 302.
he Ho vor blo
The euretry or t te
ushington.
1r:
Ith ref.reno t. t bassy's telogrum No. 120,
or August 1, l931, 2 p.m., I uve the honor to
trmmt adliti ml infor tion reg rdin th ose of
the erie vitors, dere. Hermdonnd ngborn,
who landed in Japan on the evening of ugust 6th with-
out a proper landins permit in the courss of their
flight around the world.
Permission was originally requested in compliance
with

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.88)
with the Dopartmont's tologrwn No. s0, of  prll 2nd,
7 pom. This telogr un statod th t the fliers would
poooiby land 1n  on theiright roud the
world and would carry no firearas, r dio or owaora.
The Poreign frioe at d that no p ralss1 n could
be granted unlose dofinile coute was speolfied. It
as then st ted (bepart ent's talegras No. Oo, pril lat,
3 pom.) that the permlssion was re u sted erely s n
argenoy mouure.  note No. /, of Ju  6, 1931,
6/.
a copy in translati f lon is enol md, the rorelgn
ofrioe stated th t  s no o jeoti to uon
landi 1f ne sit   xot olrou anos.
 it wao b livdrt hnd oon aully
Infor od ro rdlr tr strieti  inet flyin
overortifd
orrsthebay
morely iner t  h
seraission ws
granted subjmot o  ueu 1 r atrioti ns ( mbaosy's
tolegam No. 80. 1th,1 no
When 1t beo anown i lokye t erndon nd
angborn had ohnged their in a nd wor coming to
Toko, the oreign frice wired the Ja ose onaul in
Habarovak that
now porait would be
cossry.
This
mossage did not ronon the fliers in tim nor did a tele-
gram from the Jup n Timee tellin: them not to comw to
Japan until they had reoeived permission.
ccording to statements wde by the uvi tore, they
soemed to belleve that their emergunoy penait was suf-
fielemt for a landint in Japan. It is bsliaved, how-
over, that they were aware of the existenoe of regulations
bat they belleved that in u flight or this kind the
Japansse

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.87)
- 3 -
Japaneme Covern ent woild not striotly nforee the
regulations. They were led to this beliof b the
attitude of other Cove mments whose torritory they
had treversed und who hud walved vise fe e boo se or th
outstandin;  turo of the fllght.
y oarrid a camora,
however, although the original tologr st ted that no
cure would  ld d thbuy telr
do. 80, Ju e Lith, 1s noon, st ted that tho poraiesion
would be granted subjeet to lie us l rustrietione
agatnet flying over fortified ones nd oarrying
a they d of  xetn
Inaoou ato uosien m. 1t 1 vient tmt ey d1
not kmo" thet hey wor rlyin ovor fortifi d zones.
The iore1
Irport noor
Tokyo at bout ol on th voni of ust oth. hey
wore imediately da by uthorit
nd vero
not released and 11 wed to orooeed o tair h t:1 until
al ost elevon 'olook.
boss st ff wus
at th eirfil, to met then nd m le  personel rocu st
to the uthorities for the rel as of t fliers for
future questionins. The recuest mus refused s they
hed not been sufficiently examinet.
fter meverol days of almost contlau 1 vesvloning
by officiels of the Dopartment of o. u a tiunn, etro-
politan Polioe, my, and Navg and tho roourator, it
we determined thas they had violated throe provisions
of the Japamese rogulations regerdig alrplune flights
over Japanese territory, namely: (1) Ianding in Japan
without e pemmit; (2) flying over ortified zones)
(s) earrping a camere and taking photographs over cartain
fertiried zemes. Certain offieials were uoted us saying
that

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.90)
-4-
that the airmen mist hove krown of the restriotlons
and therefore hud intuntiun lly violuted th. regula-
t1 ns. The Foreign frioe has on tho hole been
sympathetio and it is bolieved that they have ndeavored
to obtain lenienoy from the other departments. Certain
reactionury ele wnte, n tably th. so-ualled Bl.ok rugon
oolety, huve inslsted that ta fliers be punish d to
the full oxtent of the law.
ditorials, copies of whion re enolomed, nve
1-8/.
appered 1n the Japan rontel:, the Jopen dvurtiser,
31.
and even the Japan se-e n d Juo 1mos eritio1 1ng
the Jannse ovor ont fo its
ttitude in the matter.
The Japanese prees, wtth the xoe st1 n of the
oro
4-0/.
sonotlonel ppero, uo s t ip on, ollppings fro
which are nol d, a ve been ror the set part e
sorved 1n th ir o i 1. lim t1 the 1ves gon lly
to st teme te of fot
uotin
the opini ms of the
rriolls co comed.
o of th lore seneational pup rs ve statel that
o tified
the fliere were peliuy d to hove flown over
20nes
nd taken plotures sith th. 1 lea f sollin hem
to "a oertain Gove nont."
71.
The abassy addrussed
note,  oo y of hion is
enclosed, regrettin the inoident nd ssuring the
Japaneme Government that efforts would be made to pre-
vent the reourronoe of 1neidonts of this kind in the future.
The outeome of the ouse has not yet been made publle,
but it is reported that some punishment would be imposed on
the fliere for their violation of Japanese laws.
Respeetfully yours,
Fer the Aabassader:

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.89)
- 5 -
Enclosures:
1. Xditorial of Ja n hroniole of ugust 11, l9s1.
8.
dvertiser of gust 9, 1931.
3.
1 of ust , 1931.
4.
comment from the Appon, translated by the
Japen dvertiser an ppe ring ug st 12, 1931.
B. commont from the ippon, tran Lated by the
Japun dvertis r and ppearing ugust 1., 1931.
6. Copy 1n tranalution of Note No. Ss/2, of
June 6, 19s1, from Foreign ffioe to the
Dabassy.
7. copy of lmbassy's Hote No. l19, of ug st lu,
19s1, to the orign frice.
Embassy F1le No. 879.6
KPP/hln

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.89)
6
352
Tranelation
No. 53/8
Depe tment of Foreign ffuirs,
Tokyo, Ju 6, 1901.
xoelloney:
I have th honor to colonowledgo the reeeipt of
your Note No. 61, of pril 4, 19:1, and Note o. 73.
of ri1 , 191, roquest1s pomalse1 n for the
meriean viators, msere. Pungborm aul erndon, to
fly ovor Japan as territory in case of eergeney in
the course of thoir f lxnt around the world.
I roforred this vtter prom tly to to uthori-
t1 s conorned, nd I m now in reoe1pt of comni-
cution fro those uthorities st tim: thI u der the
conditions met forth on the pp-nded shoet, tere is
no objeotion to an mergency lundin or to  flight
over Jap nse orritory by t poreons  bov- sntioned,
provided tmt suoh 1 ndin or fiight 1. neoessitat d by
unexpoted oirounstnos.
I av 1l myu if . this op ortu ity t renow to Your
Exoelleney tae ssur ne s . my highost considerution.
Duror 1 juro hideh ra.
intstor or oro1gm rrairo
(L
His Exoellenoy
F
mbaeoudor xtraord mury ul leniput ntiary
of the  itd tates of orle.
1. hen flying over Japanoso territory, tho laws
and roguluti ns of Jap n goy rnin vi tion must bo
observed.
2.  en flying over Jap ese territory. 1t 1s
prohibited to ourry explusives, : lit ry ve pone,
amition or cmers.
3. It 1o pr hibited to fly over fortifid zones,
or zonee defined by rtlol 7 or th ortified ons
Law, nav l ports, or strut gic ports.
4. If a foroed landing 1s mde on Jup n se terri-
tory, tet matter mmst be ruported pro tly t the
nearest Japanese ofrieials. ubeeguent flichts ust
be mads only at the liroution of sicn frioials.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.88)
302
De
From
Tokyo
JOFY
Bmb asy of the United states of merios
No. 119
Toky, ust 10. 1951.
xcelleney:
ith fereno to y Note o. 11, of ust 6.
193l, regu ting permse1 for easre. angborn and
Horndon to 1and 1n Ja n,  le rn with extreme re-
et that these aviators flos over J pumeee territory
ithout obtein in advano fro te ppropriute
authorit! s of th I pe 1al Ja mose ovorn ent per-
misolon to land in Ja nd info tin reg miing the
route to be followed in fligh ovor Jup nes tur-
rtory. In conme ueno, they hay not ob y  the
provisione of law peri irl  rlihta ver
Japanese territory und taking of otorpns.
Your Exoellonoy's Note o. , or Jum 6, 19.1,
notified the mbassy that pe miesln was gronted tho
gentleaen u der e rt1 condit1 ns to m ke n emer ency
landin in Je n provi ded such lunding was noeesaita-
ted by unexpeoted eirou stances. ihe sense of Your
xoellenoy's ote was covey to ay overn ent for
tranamissin to tessra. mgbor und erndon but they
ovi lently di not fully oders unt the roculetions pr
soribed by the Jup nose
ov rnt efore sturtine on
thoir flight t Jup n.
I regret extremely thut his u ortu ato inoident
has ocourred and ussure Your xoel enoy that he
Babassy will do ll in its bower to prevent  reou -
rones of any ineidont of thi notur.
I vonture to exprues th hup th  in view of
their youth an inexpe tonoe Your xollenoy eun soe
your way to usu your good ofrloes to assist leasrs.
Pungborn and erndon in th ir present predieament.
I avall myself or this opportunity to ronow to
Your Exoellenoy the ssurunoss of my highost son-
sideration.
For the ad saador!
D IN L. N VILLE
IMs Exoellenoy
Baron Xi juro Shidehare,
Ris Imperial Jep nese jesty's
Minister for Foreim ffairs,
eto.,
oto.,
●to.
KPP/hlx

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
800.7061/4
letter
SEE
FOR
894.7961/
FROM
Commerce Department
) DATED
Aug. 17, 1931
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
"Procedure Governing Flights in Foreign Countries by American
1
Airmen". Encloses mamuscript entitled- for approval and
suggestion before publishi ng.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.94)
Bepartment of Statevr?
0/105
2
Washagon.
qC
,"1931.
3 P23
ANLEGATION
TOKYO (Japan)
894.7901/9
150
Your 374, July 15, 1931.
800.7961/5
Department of Commerce contemplates publication,
for information of American airmen, of brief remumé
of requirements of foreign governments governing entrance
894.7961/17
of aircraft to whioh it is thought special attention should
be called. Necessity for compliance with all air regula-
tions of foreign governments will, however, be emphasised.
after consulting appropriate authorities telegraph whether
amy amendments or additions to following proposed
statement are suggested:
QUOTE The regulations prohibit the carriage of
arms and munitions, explosives or cameras when
flying over Japanese territory. They also pro-
hibit flights over strategic sones as well as
military or naval ports and auxiliary naval
ports, and in addition over Hiratsuka and
Tokuyama UNQUOTE.
STAIE OTTED

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
Washington,
Department of Commerce occasionally publishes
in semi-monthly Air Commeroe Bulletin information in
sogerd to requirements of foreign countries govern-
ing flights over their territories. State whether
you recommend that Department of Commerce be asked
to consider publication in full of three sets of
Jepanese regulations accompanying your 274. Endeavor
expedite reply.
894.7961/9
Cautl
MOTING
Ram
TD:8L:L0G:88/
FE
H.m.h.
Sep.4. 1981.
19..

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.95)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 9 193TELEGRAM RECEIVED
+C
REP
Zile yo
GREEN
FROM
Tokio
Dated September 3, 1931
894.7961
Rec'd 9 a. m.
TREATY DIVISION
3
SEP931
Secretary of State
31
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1
1021
132, September 3, 5 p. m.
894.7961/1
Department's 150, September a, 3 p. m.
Foreign Office suggests the following in place of
the Department's proposed statement:
One. Permission for flight over Japanese territory
must be obtained in advanoe for each flight as well as
C3
inetructions outlining the route to be followed. In-
structions must also be obtained in advance for each
place of landing and taking off.
Two. Flying over fortified zones and restricted
zones ts prohibited.
Three. The regulations prohibit the carriage of
arms and munitions, explosives or cameras when flying
over Japanese territory.
Four. When flying over Japanese territory the regu-
latione must be observed.
As eaoh individual oase must be handled soparately
and a

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
4
REP
2- #132, from Tokio, September 3,
1931, 9 a. m
and a new set of instructions issued with each permit granted,
it is believed the publication of the regulaticns aocompany-
ing Embassy's 274 would be of little value. It is requested
that efforts be made to give correct specification of plane
when raqtesting permit as Foreign Office states that
frequently air planes on arrival are found not to agree
with specifications given in the request for permit.
Certificates of air-worthiness issued by a power
party to the Air Navigation Convention are accepted by
the Japanese Government.
The customs authorities require surety for duty on
foreign planes whether flown or otherwise brought into
Japanese territory.
JHR
FORBES

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.91)
TELEGRAM BEND
Washinglon.
5
September @, 1931.
3P
SEP 5 31
TOKYO, (JAPAN).
155
Convention of l919, but has experienced no diffioulty
in having its certifiates of airworthiness accepted
894.7961/18
fer American airoraft flown to countries parties to the
convention.
Tergers
AOTING
Rem
894.1961/18
FE
M.m.H.
H4g

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.90)
BEP 4 1981
The Menerable
The sesretary of Commeree.
sist
894.7961/1
The Departmemt refers to its letter of september 2
191, in reply to your Department's letter of Angust 17
losl, treasmitting a draft statement for puolicatiom in
regard te the presedare soverning flights in certain
fereign countries by American sirmen.
8
As stated in the Department's letter of September 2,
the American Embassy at Tokyo and the Americsn Legation
at Peiping were instructed by telegrams to submit state-
memts as te what might be imoerporated in the prepesed
publieation comoerning flights in Japan and Chima.
The Departmemt is in receipt of & telegraphie reply
dnted september 3, 1931, from the Americaa Embassy at
Tokye sestaining a seggested stetement for inserperstion
Im the prepesed publieatien. In view ef the infematiem
td tn the tolegee, it is segested that the fei-
 te be inelded mer the heding

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
"smmmary of Special Requiremeats" in the proposed pub-
lieatiom:
"n. Ome. Permissien for flight over
fer eash flight as well as imstreetiems eutlin-
ing the reute te be fellowed. Instructions
mest alse be ebtained in advanse for eack place
of landing and taking eff.
"Two. Mying over fertified sones and re-
strioted somes is prohibited.
"Three. The regulations prohibit the
carriage ef arms and mmitions, explesives er
eameras when flying ever Japenese territory.
"Four. When flying over Japanese territory
the regulations mmst be observed.
"Five. The Japamese oustoms authorities
require surety fer duty om foreign planes whether
flowm or otherwise brought into Japamese ter-
ritery."
The Amrioan Embassy at Tokyo requests that efforts
be made te give the correct specificatiom of the airplame
when requesting a permit to fly ever Japamese territery
as the Japanese Fereign Office states that frequently
airplames en arrival are found mot to agree with the
specifiestiens given in the requests for a permit. In
view ef this statement and the fact that suck discrepaney
as the eme referred to might ocour in commection with
flights te countries ether then Japan, it is saggested
that it might be advisable to add the felleving sestenee
o

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-
te the sseend paragraph of the proposed publioatiom:
If this amemdment is made to the second paragraph of the
draft publicatiem as revised by this Department, it would
reed as fellows:
"ase ef pilot and license mumber;
mames ef erew and pessengers; type of plane;
idemtificatiem and airworthiness mumber ef
plame; itimerary, imdicating peint of de-
parture and gemeral route to be followed,
with appreximate dates; apparatus carried --
be exereised te give the sorrect specifios-
siem sf the airplame, se that whem it arrives
in the cemmtries te be visited, it will be
in the request for permission to enter these
countries."
The bepartment has net yet recsived a reply to the
telegram whiek it sent to the American Legation at Peiping.
It ecsurs te the Bepartment that it might be desirable
to imalude in the propesed publication a brief reference
 the requiremeats of Sian goveraing the entrance of
Eemetes atreraft. The Departaent will therefere cend a
Fer the Acting Beeretery of Stset
CFE
JAMES GRAFTON ROGERS
y.m..

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.92)
TD
ite
rh
SEP 9 1931
GREEN
/TOKYO
EE
FROM
Dated Sept. 7, 1931
Red'd.6:06 am
SECRETARY OF STATE
SEP 8 - 1931
ile
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ffw
137, September 7, 11 am
Department's 155, September 5, 3 pm
894.796171
Japanese Government has hitherto accepted American
certificates of air worthiness on request of the Embassy
and will, I understand, continue to do so.
Aviators should bear in mind that flying in Japan is
subjeot to many restrictions and that the regulations are
rigorously enforced separate applications for each flight
are insisted upon and permits are issued only after careful
and sometimes prolonged consideration.
FORBES
PFC
—2
SEP 1 1931
FTLED
148356

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.95)
PM RECD
28
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
10
OFFICE OF THE
9
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR AERONAUTICS
8
WASHINGTON
SEP 1 1 31
TREATY DIVISION
SEP 11 193
The Honorable
844.7961
The Secretary of State
Washington, D.C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Ly dear Lr. Secretary:
The Department acknowledges receipt of
your letters of Septumber 2 and 4, Files TD
and TD 894.7961/18 respectively, with draft
of statement in regard to procedure govern-
ing flights in foreign countries by American
airmen, and revision of draft by your Depart-
ment with sugrestions for inclusion in the
publication.
The Department of Commerce appreciates
your cooperation and will be guided by the
advice contained in both letters from the
State Department.
Jincerely ours,
Stae A. yoong
Claronce . Young
Acting Secretary of Commerce
SEP14 1931

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
8
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
September 15, 1931.
SEP19 31
894.7461
TREATY DIVISION
F1r
The Honorable,
SEP 21 1931
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.7961/21
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Receipt is acknowledged of your letter of September
14, File TD 894.796l/13, returning to the Department of
Commerce a letter dated August 19, 193l,from Miss V. P.
Swerig, Librarian of the Aeronautical Chamber of Commerce,
with the suggestion that the Department of Commerce answer
Miss Swerig's question about regulations governing flights
in Japan by American ainmen, in the light of infonmation
recently furnished by the Department of State, and which
was not available at this Department when the letter was
received.
This infornation will be transmitted to Miss Swerig
as suggested.
Very sincerely,
Naneuce M Young.
Clarence M. Young,
Acting Secretary of Comerce.
SEP· 2193
FILED

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
2
894.00 P.R./45
#324
894.7961/22
SEE
FOR
Japan
Neville
Sept.12,1931
FROM
) DATED
xex
NAME
1-1172
REGARDING:
Suspicion that Lindbe rgh may have passed over certain
places in Murile Islands wi thout first having obtained
permission fron the Japanese authorities. However
notmetron has been taken, which would lead one to believe
that any one but Lindbergh might have had serious diffioulty
over this slight infriigement of the air regulations.
pra

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.95)
PM RECD
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
D
3
9
Tokyo, Japan, October 23, 1931.
8
DIVISION OF
NTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES
NOV201931
No. 367
NOV - 9 31
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FREATY DIVISION
T 10 1931
F
cofer
844.7861
Division of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Leiter to lpatuens
894.7961/23
NOV 2 0 1931
u
Department ot State
nsluchien
November 19 1981.
NOV 8 81931
FLILHED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
594.7961
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's telegram
No. 132 of September 3, 1931, and to previous correspond-
ence in regard to airplane flights over Japanese territory.
The Embassy is now in receipt of a memorandum from the
Department of Foreign Affairs, a copy of whioh, in trans-
1/.
lation, is enclosed, stating that in the case of foreign
aviators who shall have been subjeoted to penalties for
1
infringements the Japanese Government will prohibit or
suspend all flights by such foreign aviators over any
portion

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
portion of Japanese territory.
Respeotfully yours,
Eduim Druith
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
Enclosure:
Copy, in translation, of
Foreign Office's Note Verbale
No. G0. 11/£2 of October 12, 1931.
Embassy's File No. 879.6
ELN/AA

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.
367.
Despatch No
FrOm 
Translation.
No. GO. 11/E2.
Note Verbale.
The Department of Foreign Affairs present their
compliments to the United States Embassy, and, taking
note of the recent increase in the number of foreign
aviators flying to. this country, and of the very un-
fortunate fact that some of these aviators had to be
subjected to penalties for infringements of the Japanese
Regulations concerning Aerial Navigation and those concern-
ing Prohibited Areas, the Department beg to request that,
if any American aviator intends to fly to Japan, the
Embassy may use their good offices in future, as they
have done in the past, to the end that he should, through
diplomatio channels, obtain information concerning the
conditions governing the admission of his aircraft over
Japanese territory, and should thus avoid the occurrence
of any unfortunate incidents suoh as the infringement of
the said regulations.
The Department beg to add that, in the case of
foreign aviators who shall have been subjeoted to penalties
for infringements of the Japanese Regulations concerning
Aerial Navigation, those concerning Prohibited Areas or
other relevant regulations, the Japanese Government will
take, without exception, the same action as in the case of
Japanese aviators guilty of a similar offence, viz., that
of prohibiting or suspending all flight by suoh foreign
aviators over any portion of Japanese territory.
Tokio, Ootober 12th, 1931.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.87)
MENT OF STATE
OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November16,1931
FE suggeots that
Dafartat
crpes of the
f Commmerais frmiked
Juthcatons be sent
to the Embooy at
and
NOV 1: 1931
miguresof
MET QE STATE

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.83)
T8
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREATY DIVISION
2o2.17-
CR
The mformatin in rejaid
to Japan mill be eiulodiol
in a pamphlet Contaming
neformstin in regard to
prachcasly all forergn
Auntnes. The pamiphlet
has nat yet been fuiw.
We milend to send Capris
to all oum nuesim?. Bore
the publcatire of te
pamphlit the slateme.
i regaid to Japan neel
probasly be Guthohedm
me of ttle Reny- mouihly
mel ashs Commnce iufommilly

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.92)
4.7961
November 19 1951.
211
The Eenorable
W. Cameron Forbes,
Ameriean Ambassador,
Tokyo.
894.7961/23
The Department has reeeived the habassy's despeteh
No, 867 of Oetober 23, 1931, enclosing e translatiom
of a note dated Ootober 12, 1931, from the Depertment
of Foreign Affairs in which that Depertment mlls
astention to the nesessity for Ameriean aviators to
obtain information through diplomatie chamnels before
making flights over Japanese territory, and states shat
flights by foreign aviators over Japanese territory
will be prohibi ted or suspended in case they violate
Japanese regulations pertaining to air mavigatien. The
Depertment of Foreigs Affairs states in this eomnestion
that it will take the same aetien in the sase of ferelgm
aváaters as ia the case of Japanese aviatare guilt ef
 imilar effense.
Upee reseipt of the Inbessy's tolegrem to. lae of
er , & . , the Depertment adéressed a lotter
te te Depertement et Gemeree da ted Septesbes 4, lost.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.94)
Department of Commerse containing an outline of speeial
requirements of cortain countries governing the entranee of
foreigm aireraft. A copy of the Department's letter of
September 4, 1931, 1s enolosed.
In view of the information contai ned in the note of
Oetober 12, 1931, from the Department of Foreign Affairs,
the suggestion 1s being made to the Department of Com-
meree that the following paragraphs be added to the
proposed statement in the letter of September 4, last,
to that Department:
(6) The Japanese Government states that, in
the case of foreign aviators who shall have been
subjeoted to penalties for infringements of the
Japanese regulations concerning aerial navigation,
those concerning prohibited areas or other relevant
regulations, the Japanese Government will take,
without exception, the same action as in the case
of Japanese aviators guilty of a similar offense,
viz., that of prohibiting or suspending all
flight by such foreign aviators over any portion
of Japanese territory.
(7) Ameri can airmen who, through the assistanee
of the Department or Commeroe and the Department
of State, obtain pemission to make flights to Japan
should not undertake sueh flights without informa-
tion from the American Embassy in Tokyo coneerning
the conditions governing the admission of their
aireraft over Japanese territory.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of state:
FRANCIS WHITE
uly
of Cmmeree,
OV. 17 1981
Ram.
1983.
A trus copy 
the sidedi
IC FE
H

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.92)
November 19 1981.
The Zonorable
The Seere tary of Commeree.
siri
Referenee is made to the Depertment's letter of
September 4; 19al, 1n reply to the letter of the
9
1/23
800.7941
Dapartment of Commeree of August 17, 1931, tranamit-
tn a draft statement for publieation in rogard to
the proeedure governing flights in certain foreign
countrt by Ameriean airmen.
Separtment's letter of September 4 contained
a propesed statement for publica tion in regard to the
Ontranee of aireraft into Japanese territory, The
Department is now in reseipt of despateh No. s6v,
dated Detober 23, 193l, from the Americen Embasay in
Tekge enelosing a translation of a note dated Cetober 12,
josl, from the Japemese Department of Foreign Affairs,
in whieh that Department ealls ettention to the necessity
fur Amerlemm avietors to obtain informat ion through
diplomatée

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.95)
daplematie channels before making flights over Japaneee
temritery, and states that ell flights by foreiga aviators
er Japamese terri tory will be prohibited or suspenéed
im ease they violate Japanese reguletions pertaining to
mir mavigetion. The Department of Poreis Affairs states
1m this eommeetion that it will take the same astien in
the sase of foreign aviators as in the ase of Japanese
aviators guilty of a similar offense. A eopy of the
asspateb of October 23, 1931, from the American Embasay
in Tokyo is enelesed.
Im view of the information just received from the
Ameriean Embassy in Tokyo, it is sugges ted that the
proposed statement contained in the Department's letter
of September 4, l93l, be amended by the addition of the
following paragrephs:
(6) The Japanese Government stetes that, in
the mse of foreign aviators who shall have been
subjested to penalties for infringements of the
Japanese regulations concerning serial navigation,
those coneerning prohibited areas or other rele-
vant regulations, the Japanese Govermment will
take, without ezception, the mame astion as in
the ease of Japanese aviators guilty of a similar
offemse, vis., that er prohibiting or suspendimg
all flighs by sush foreign eviators over aay
portion of Japanese territery.
(7) Ameriean ai rmes who, through the esstetames
of the bepartment of Gommeree and the Deper mens

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.93)
of state, obtain permission to make flights to
Japen should not undertake such flights without
information from the Ame ican Embessy in Tokyo
soneerming the sonditions governing the admission
of their eireraft over Japanese territory.
Very truly yours,
For the Beeretary of State:
FRANCIS WHITE
Assistant Seeretary.
Enclosure:
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 367, October 23, 1931,
wit enolosure.
aly
A. true copy
the sigaed ant
in
us
17 1981. PM
Rem
IC FE
m.m.Ht.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.96)
RECO
12
2
NAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
DretC0931
WASHINGTON
3
December 1,
1931.
COM.
6
5
epartment of State
8c
TREATY DIVISIO
BE6 5 31
DEC 5-191
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL COIFERENCES
The Honorable
HOO
The Secretary of State.
1931
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
We are pleased to ac nowledge receipt of your
communication o1 November 19, file TD 894.7961/23,
an to advise that the additional information, with
respect to the procedure to be followed by American
airmen desirous of enterin Japan, which was contain-
ed therein, is bein: made a part o: the December 15th
issue oi the Air Co merce 3ulletin.
Sincerely yours,
DEC 1 4 19311
Clarence M. Young
FILED
Actin Secretary of Cormerce.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.93)
796l
7441
892.
March 24 1933
The Seeretary of state presents his compliments to
894.7961/24A
the Nemorable the Seeretary of Commeroe and eneleses
homewith, for the Divieion of Information of the Aeromauties
Branch, copies of instructions comcerning summaries of
air mavigation requirements of foreign countries govern-
ing the entrance of oivil aireraft whioh have beem sent
to the American diplomatio missions in Japan, China and
siam.
The American diplomatic missions in Japan, China
and Siam have been direeted in the instruotions to en-
; deavor te have the summaries for these sountries kept
up to date.
Enclesures:
To Legation, Peiping.
A true copy of
次
TD: MLIWI S8
FE
SL

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREATY DIVISION
March 14, 1933.
A few days ago instructions
were drafted to Latin American
countries and to our Embassy in
Paris containing summaries of air
navigation requirements printed
by the Department of Commerce.
The request was made that an ef-
fort be made to have the summaries
kept up to date. The attached
CA
draft instructions to China,
Japan and Siam correspond with
those previously drafted.
Af
TS: SL: EDW
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR 16 1933
Depertment of State
NOO

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
7961
94
.228
March 241933
The Honorable
Joseph O. Grew,
894.7961/24
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
sir:
The Department refers to its telegram No. 150 of
Soptember 2, 3 p.m., 1931, and to the Embassy's telegram
to. 132 of September 3, 5 p.m., 1931, 1n regard to the
B
publication of a summary of air navigation requirements
of Japan governing the entranoe of civil airoraft.
Reference is also made to the Imbassy's mmil despatoh
No. 387 of Ootober 23, 1931, and to instruction No. 211
of November 19, 1931, in reply. The telegram and despatoh
from the mbassy contained data for inoorporation in the
summary for Japan.
The information obtained from the Japanese Govern-
ment and communicated by the Embassy to the Department
was published in the semi-monthly Air Commeroe Bulletins
of the Department of Commeroe.
The Departmeme ressived, t hrough Amerieam diplematie
missions, summaries of air mavigation requirements ef
preetically all countries goverming the entramee of eivil

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
一8-
amd in the Air Cemmeroe Bulletin of December 15, 1931
(volume 3, No. 12). Copies of these bulletins are here-
with enelosed.
After consulting the Department of Commeree, it was
deeided to request the American missions whioh furnished
summaries of air navigation requirements of foreign coun-
tries to endeavor to have the summaries kept up to date.
It is suggested, therefore, that you consult the appropriate
authorities of the Japanese Government, from time to time,
with a view to asoertaining whether there have been such
material changes in the air navigation laws or regulations
of the Japanese Government as to warrant a revision of the
data pertaining to Japan. The Department leaves it to
your judgment to determine how often you should take steps
to aseertain whether there have been suoh ohanges in the
air mvigation laws or regulations as to require a modifi-
oation of the data. It is asaumed that you are in the
best position to know or to asoertain about how frequently
air mavigation laws and regulations are being modified in
Japan.
some of the summaries of air navigation requirements
of foreign countries published by the Department of Commeroe
were amended from time to time. It is believed that the
publication of successive amendments to a summary is not
entirely satisfactory as it is diffioult for interested
persons te cerrelate the various publications containéss
the smmary and amendments. In the eiroumstances, it is
desised that if you find a modification of the data for
meeesary, an entirely new summary be furaished

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.91)
- 3-
Japem Governing the Ent rance of Civil Airoraft", suck a
revised summary would consist of any provisions of the
previous summary for Japan still in force and any new mat-
ter in the way of amendments.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
FRANCIS WHITE
molosures:
Air Commeroe Bulletins of
October 1 and December 15,
1931 (both in duplioate).
A true copy of
the signed orig-
inalM
804.1961/€
JiK
10
gRo
w.w.H.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.96)
RECO
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
TREATYO
March 27, 1933.
MAR 28 35
F/HS
DEPAENT OF TATÉ
894.7961
The Honorablo
The Secretary of State.
894.7961/
My dear Mr. Secretary:
This will acknowledge receipt of your letter of March 24,
1933, (File TD 894.796l/6), transmitting for our information
copies of instructions dated March 24 to American diplomatic
officers in Japan, China and Siam in regerd to the requirements
of those countries governing flights of fcreign aircraft over
25
their respective territories, and calling attention to your
request that the summaries of requirement= already furnished
be kept up to date.
Thanking you for your cooperation in making this information
available, I am
Sincerely yours,
APR
lame le Long
FILED
3
-1933
Crarence M. Young,
Acting Secretary of Cominerce.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.92)
王
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1C
Tokyo, May 12, 1933.
7E
No.393.
Subject:
Air Navigation Requirements in Japan.
TREATY DIVISION
LEGAL ADVISER
ailtn t co
894.7941
F/HS
JUN 5 1034
PREC
PM RECO
A  6 35
file jh
DEPARTMFNT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STAFE
daa
894.7961/26
DIVILION OF
INTERNATIOAL CONFERENCES
MWS
JUX1 1933
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUN -2 1933
'JUN 6 - 1933
The Honorable
Department of Stabe
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
Reference is made to the Department's instruction
No. 228 of March 24, 1933, transmitting an Air Commerce
Bulletin published by the Department of Commerce, and
directing the Embassy to ascertain from the appropriate
Japanese authorities whether there have been such changes
in the air navigation laws of Janan as to warrant a re-
vision of the data pertaining to Japan.
The

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
The Bulletin mentioned above was forwarded by
the Embassy to the proper authorities of the Japanese
Government, from whom a reply has been received to the
effect that the data pertaining to Japan on page 306
is satisfactory and needs no revision.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
879.6
WTT:r

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.92)
June 5 19?3
The Aeting Seoretary of State presents his com-
894.7961/26
pliments to the Homorable the Seeretary of Commeres
and, with reference to previous correspondenee con-
cerming the keeping up to date of the summaries of air
agulations governing the entrance of civil airoraft
into foreign countries, encloses, for the Information
Divisiom of the Aeronautics Branch, a copy of despatch
Wo. 393 of May 13, 1933, from the American Ambassador
at Tokyo, informing the Department that the competent
authorities of the Japanese Government have advised the
Embassy that the data pertaining to Japan printed on page
306 of the Air Commeroe Bulletin of December 15, 1931
(volume 3, No. 12), 1s correot to date.
JUN8,
Enclesure:
8
From Tokye, No. 393,
May 12, 1o33 - eop.
A true capy of
the argney origl-
nal.
MWB
pC
H.m.H.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
AM RECD
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
JUN 10 1933
WASHINGTOUN 1 0 1933
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1933.
F/HS
JUN 933
TREATY DIVISION
The Honorable,
JUN - 9 1933
The Secretary of State.
DEPARTMENT RES
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.7961/27
This vill acknowledge receipt of your letter of June 5,
File TD 894.7961/26, enclosing for the Information Jivision
of the eronrutics ranch a copy of despatch No. 393 of May 12,
1935, from the American moassador at Tokyo, infoming the
Department that the competent authorities of the Japanese Gov-
ernnent have advise the ibassy that data pertaining to Japan
printed on page 306 of the .ir Com.erce ulletin of Decciiber 15,
1951 (volume 3, No. 12), is correct to date.
Thankin you for your coo cration in makin: this infor-
mation available, I an
Sincerely yours,
Clarence . Young
.ssistunt Jecretary of Com.erce.
.JIIN 1 2 1933
7
FILED

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
164.21
FOR158
894.7961/28
FROM ......Yokohama
(BOc) DATED Dc231935
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Driver's licenses. The examination for - for regular
8
automobiles in Japan is extremely rigid.
rr

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
164.21/364
FOR
#175
894.7961
FROM ....Yokohama
Boyce
) DATED
Feb. 10,
1936
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Proposed merger between General Motors in Japan with Nissan
2
Jidosha. Encloses copy of newspaner item of February 9,
6
issue of the JAPAN ADVERTISER, to effect that - has fallen
through because of terms insisted upon by General Motors.
rr
2
6

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.92)
E
73981
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
PE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AB
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.7961
Tokyo, September 17, 1936.
No. 2043.
894.7961/30
SUBJECT:
LAW PROHIBITING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF ▲ COMMERCIAL
AVIATION SERVICE, EXCEPT BY JAPANESE, BETWEEN JAPAN
AND ANY OTHER COUNTRY.
by m 7 E (381)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1A
T6-1936
Uopartment of State
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.
TREATY DIVISION
OCT 8 - 1936
ACIC
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
onr
RECORDING DEK
FILE - WHB
AMD
0F
Commesce
ANG
Potff
DIVISION
CONFERENCES
EBe
F-J
101936
197 89 1936
PTLED
The Hohorable
310
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
.91
Sir:
With reference to the Imbassy's despatch No. 1998
1/ of August 21, l936, I have the honor to enclose a trans-
Lation of Law No. 34 of May 29, 1936, which provides for
the amendment of the Aviation Law of April 9, 1921.
The significance of the new law lies in its amend-
mont of Article 35, which as revised reads in translation:
"No

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
"No aeroplanes other than Japanese aeroplanes shall en-
gage in the transportation for payment of passengers or
cargo between points in Japan or between a place outside
Japan and a place in Japan", whereas the former text was
as follows: "No aeroplanes other than Japanese aeroplanes
shall engage in the transportation for payment of passengers
or cargo between points in Japan".
Japan has set a precedent which, if followed by other
countries, would seriously impair international aviation.
The Japanese are repor tedly desirous of establishing com-
mercial airplane communication with Siam, China, and other
countries. There is little likelihood, however, that other
countries would be willing to allow this except on a basis
of reciprocity.
It is possible that the present law was passed as a
temporary measure of expediency and was inspired by Japan's
need to concentrate upon the development of domestic aviation
before attempting to open airline services with other countries.
Thus, since the new aviation law prevents the establishment
by any other country of an aviation service with Japan, the
latter country will be free at such time in future as it
deems proper to enter the field of international aviation
without competition.
Respectfully yours,
E. R. Dickover,
Chargé a'Affaires ad interim.
Emclosure:
1/ As stated above.
879.6
GDA:C
Copy to Embassy, Moscow,
8
Peiping.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh
No. 2043 dated September 17, 1936,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
OFFICIAL GAZETTE, May 29, 1936.
Law No. 34.
A Law Providing for the Amendment of the Aviation Law
of April 9, 1921.
The Law of Aviation is partially modified as follows:
Article 1. Flying machines in the present Law
signify aeroplanes, airships, balloons, machines which
glide over the surface of water and land, all of which
are manipulated by men, and other machines which are
used for aviation.
The aviation in the present Law signifies a sliding
over the surface of water and land, take off and landing
on water and land.
The following paragraph is added to Article 3:-
As regards flying machines to be specified by
Imperial Ordinance, special provisions or rules may be
stipulated by the issuance of a Government order concern-
ing the matters mentioned in Chapters 2, 3, and 4.
The words "certificate of capacity and" in Article 17
are deleted.
Article 23-(2). For the safety of aviation the
administrative authorities may specify a special zone
within the limits of one thousand meters from an aerodrome
for the use of the public, or from a site or sites offi-
cially selected for an aerodrome.
Anyone who wants to keep or plant various articles,
such as ships and boats, trees, etc., in the special
zone

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
zone above mentioned must obtain the permission of the ad-
ministrative authorities when the articles, ships, trees,
etc., exceed the height stipulated below. However, this
clause shall not apply to cases where agricultural plants
do not exceed a height of one meter.
(1) A height of 1/30 of the horizontal distance between
a point where the articles, ships, trees, etc., are kept or
are growing and the borderline of an aerodrome which is near-
est to the point above alluded to, provided this point lies
within a distance of 500 meters from the aerodrome.
(2) A height of 17 meters plus 1/20 of the horizontal
distance between a point where the articles, ships, trees,
etc., are kept or grown in a special zone outside the limits
mentioned in the foregoing paragraph and the borderline of
the special zone which is nearest to the point above alluded
to.
Article 23-(3). Anyone who owms various articles, ships,
trees, etc., and who has kept or grown trees, etc., through
ignorance of the provisions of the foregoing Article shall
be ordered by the administrative authorities to cut off or
remove, within a certain period if time, that part of the
article, ships, tree, etc., which is above the height stipu-
lated in (1) and (2) of the foregoing Article. This clause
shall apply to persons acting as proxy for the owner above-
mentioned.
In the case of the special zone stipulated in paragraph
1 of the foregoing article, if the articles, ships, trees,
eto., should exceed the height mentioned in paragraph 2 of
the foregoing Arlicle, the administrative authorities may
order the owner or his proxy to cut off or remove, within a
certain period of time, that part of the article, ship, tree,
eto., which is above the height mentioned in paragraph 2.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Paragraph 1, Article 25, is modified as followa:
Losses resulting from measures taken in accordance with
orders issued by the administrative authorities under paragraph
2 of Article 23-(3), or from the removal, etc. under the
foregoing Article shall be borne by the owner of an aerodrome.
This clause shall also apply to cases where losses have been
sustained as a result of either the abandonment or alteration
of equipment already installed simply because a special zone
has been newly specified under paragraph 1 of Article 23-2.
The following paragraph is added to Article 26:-
The provisions of Article 23-(2), Article 23-(3), the
foregoing Article (peragraph 1, Article 25) and (1) of Ar-
ticle 59 shall apply to cases where a special zone is speci-
fied with regard to an aerodrome for military use, or a site
officially selected for an aerodrome.
The words "or between a place outside Japan and a place
in Japan" are added next to "between various places in Japan"
in Article 35.
Article 38-(2). The administrative authorities may either
restrict or prohibit aerial beacons and lights of a similar
character which may impair the safety of aviation.
"Paragraph 1 of Article 24" in (1) of Article 59 is al-
tered to read as "either Article 23-(3) or paragraph 1 of Ar-
tiole 24*.
Supplementary Rules.
The date for the enforcement of the present law of amend-
ment shall be specified by Imperial Ordinance.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.96)
RC
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OCT 29 1936
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
94.7961
October 12, 1936.
Mr. Richard Southgate,
Executive Secretary,
Interdepartmental Committee on
CONTRENCES
Civil International Aviation,
1936
A
Washington, D. C.
Visk  Takyy
1010/20
5
Dear Mr. Southgate:
894.7961/31
I am in receipt of your note of October 2, 1936, enclosing
a despatch dated August 31, 1936, from the American Embassy at Tokyo,
reporting an amendment by the Japanese Diet, made last May to the
aviation law of Japan. The amendment purports to substitute the
words "between a place outside Japan and a place in Japan" for the
words "between a place in Japan and another place in Japan", in a
section which prohibits foreign airplanes to engage in transport as
above.
The purporting amendment seemed to be a radical novelty.
It occurred to me that its exact terms should be verified, if possible.
Accordingly, on consulting the translation on file in this office of
the Japanese Aviation Act of April 8, 192l (Law No. 54, published in
the Journal of Air Law, 1935, vol. VI, P. 444) it was found that the
full text of the original section (Art. 35) reads as follows:
"Flying machines other than those of Japan shall not be
used for the aerial transportation of passengers or goods with charge
between any places within Japan unless the approval of the administrative
F/FG
authorities concerned is obtained therefor."

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Now in the report furnished by the Embassy, nothing is said
about this concluding clause, as to its omission or retention, which
becomes vital to the effect of the amendment. Accordingly, resort was
had to the official text of the Japanese Act of May 28, 1936 (Law No. 34),
on file at the Japanese Embassy, which was kindly placed at our
disposal and translated for us by Mr. Yoshizawa, Counselor of the
Embassy. This inspection revealed that the digest forwarded from
the Embassy in Tokyo was gravely erroneous. The terms of the above
amending Act of May 28 were as follows: In Art. 35 of the original
Act, after the clause "between places within Japan", insert the words
"or between a place outside Japan and a place within Japan".
The
mendment merely inserts those words. Therefore it leaves untouched
the qualifying words of the original text, viz. "unless the approval,
etc.,is obtained therefor".
Thus there is no absolute prohibition
but consent may be given and must be obtained beforehand.
This gives an altogether different effect to the amendment
from the effect conveyed by the digest quoted in your note. Indeed,
it merely puts the text of the Japanese law on virtually the same
footing as our own law and that of other nations, viz. that no
foreign aircraft may enter the country without the consent of the
domestic government, given either by a convention in general terms or
by specific consent given in the particular case (Air Commerce Act
1923, Sect. 6, Sect. II).
Cordially yours
JuJohusm
M.Johuson,
Assistant Secretary of Commerce.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.96)
Ontoher 29 1938
In reply refer to
PO 894.7961/30
My dear Colonel Johnson:
I have received your letter of October 13, 1936,
894.7961/31
concerning the recent amendment of the Japanese Aviation
Aot of April 8, 1921.
As you point out, the addition of the words "unless
the approval of the administrative authorities concerned
is obtained therefor" makes considerable difference in
the significanoe of the law. I appreeiste your giving
me this information, whioh I am comminioating to the
American Embassy at Tokyo.
Sincerely yours,
Richard Southgate
Executive Secretary, Inter-
departmental Committee on
Civil International Aviation.
A true copy of
OCT 27 1938.PM
The Honorable
the piaged orist
nal.
品
J. M. Johnson,
F/FG
Assistant Seoretary of Cemmeroe.
20
PC:
JID 10/30

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.90)
October 29 1955
-1127
MMehever,aquire,
Amerieam Chargi d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo.
894.7961/31
Referemee is made to your despatch No. 2043 of sep-
tember 17, 19s6, enelosing a translation of Law No. 34
ef May 29, l9ss, providing for the amendment of the Avia-
tiem Law of April 9, 1921.
The Department is informed that the words "or betweem
a plase eutside Japen and a place in Japast have simply
been inserted in the previeus text of the law and that
the words "umless the approval of the administrative as-
theritise cemeermed is obtained therefer: still appear is
the law, as amended. simee it is desired to have awailable
the latest and most acourate infermatiem on seremeutieal
mubjecte, you are reqeested to furaiak the Depertment with
mplete tresslation of the los la question.
Tesy thely yours,
Fer thee
R. WALTON MOORE

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
PC
No. 2305.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 10, 1937.
SUBJECT: AVIATION LAW OF JAPAN.
OF
AQTO&
AND
894.7961/
CONFERENCES
DIVISION
APR-71937
FAR LASTENR ALTAIRS
STATE
The Honorable
Deparime
The Secretary of State,
32
Washington.
Sir:
In compliance with the Department's instruction
No. 1127, October 29, 1936(894.7961/30), I have the
1/
honor to submit herewith the Embassy's translation of
Japan's aviation law and amendment.
Respectfully yours,
(1)
H
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure: Embassy's translation from TEIkOKU HOKI,
volume 14, page 787 and following, of the
aviation law of Japan (Law No. 54, April 8,
1921) and amendment thereof (Law No. 34,
May 29, 1936).
879.6
TREATY DIVISION
CC:g:r
F
MAY 4-11937
Q
DEPARTMENI OF GIATE

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 2305 of March 10, 1937,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation by the American Embassy, Tokyo, of
Japanese Law No. 54, April 8, 192l, being a law on
aviation; followed by similar translation of law No.
34, May 29, 1936, being a revision of the law on
aviation. Translation has been made from TEIKOKU HOKI
(volume 14, page 787 and following), a commercial loose-
leaf compilation of the laws and regulations of Japan,
published at Tokyo. Inasmuch as in this text there is
no indication, in the presentation of the earlier law,
as to what parts have and what parts have not been
amended by the later law, comparison with the revision,
article by article, is necessary.
h:r/g
Aviation Law.
Law No. 54, Apri1 8, 1921.
The Aviation Law approved by the Imperial Diet is
hereby sanctioned and promulgated
Aviation Law.
Chapter I.
General Provisions.
Article 1. In the present law the word aircraft
means airplanes, airships, kites, and balloons, capable
of being boarded by persons.
Aviation in the present law includes a gliding up
above the surface of land or water, taking off from and
coming

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
coming down on land, and taking off from and coming down
on water.
Article 2. Aircraft belonging to the following
shall be regarded as Japanese aircraft:
A. Japan and public bodies of Japan.
B. Japanese subjects.
C. Companies established under the laws and regula-
tions of Japan, being incorporated partnerships
(gomei kaisha) made up wholly of Japanese subjects,
mixed incorporated partnerships (goshi kaisha) and
mixed corporations (kabushiki goshi kaisha) the
unlimited liability members of which are wholly
Japanese subjects, and corporations (kabushiki Kaisha)
directors of which are wholly Japanese subjects.
D. Juridical persons other than the juridical persons
mentioned in the foregoing category, being established
under the laws and regulations of Japan, with legal
representatives who are wholly Japanese subjects.
Article 3. The present law shall not be applied to
aircraft for military use, with the exception of the pro-
visions of Chapter I and of Articles 41, 42, and 43.
To govern aircraft in the service of the State, spe-
cial provisions may be established by ordinance with re-
gard to matters provided for in Articles 21, 28, 29, 30,
 33, 34, and 40.
Article 4. When there are special provisions relating
to aviation in treaties or similar instruments, such pro-
visions shall be complied with.
Chapter II.
Inspection and Registration of Aircraft.
Article 5.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Article 5. Those engaged in the manufacture of air-
craft shall submit to inspection by administrative authorities
with regard to design, materials, accessories, processes,
and product.
Owners of aircraft which lack airworthiness certifi-
cates shall submit to inspection by administrative authori-
ties with regard to such aircraft.
Certificates of airworthiness shall be issued for
aircraft which pass the inspection provided in the fore-
going two paragraphs. The provisions of those two para-
graphs shall not apply to aircraft covered by permits from
the administrative authorities provided for by ordinance.
Article 6. Certificates of airworthiness shall become
null and void when:
A. The period of validity of such certificates has
expired.
B. An order is issued, in accordance with the first
paragraph of Article 14, prohibiting the use of
the aircraft covered.
The period of validity provided in the foregoing
clause A shall be fixed by the administrative authorities,
up to a maximum of six months computed from the day on
which the aircraft passed the inspection stipulated in
the foregoing article. The period of validity may, within
six months from the day of inspection, and subject to the
results of an inspection as provided in Article ll, be
extended by the administrative authorities to a date up to
six months from the inspection.
Article 7. Owners of aircraft which have passed the
inspection provided in Article 5 may apply to the administra-
tive authorities for registration of such aircraft.
Information

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
Information pertinent to the registration of aircraft
is name of owner, identifying marks, and other details
specified by ordinance.
In event of alteration in data pertinent to registra-
tion, owners of aircraft shall, within fourteen days of
such alteration, apply to the administrative authorities
for recording of such alteration.
For aircraft registered, registration certificates
describing ownership, identifying marks, and other details,
shall be issued in accordance with ordinance.
Article 8. Owners of aircraft shall, within fourteen
days of occurrence, return to the administrative authorities
certificates of airworthiness of such aircraft, when:
A. Such aircraft are either lost or destroyed.
B. Such aircraft are dismantled.
C. The periods of validity of such certificates of
airworthiness have expired.
Owners of aircraft shall, within fourteen days of
occurrence, return to the administrative authorities certi-
ficates of registration of such aircraft, when:
A. Such aircraft are either lost or destroyed.
B. Such aircraft are dismantled.
C. Such aircraft lose Japanese nationality.
D. The periods of validity of such certificates of
registration expire.
In the circumstances covered by clauses A, B, and C
immediately foregoing, application for cancelation of regis-
tration shall be made simultaneously; if not, or in event
of failure to return expired certificate of registration,
the

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
the administrative authorities may on their own initiative
effect cancelation.
Article 9. Registered aircraft shall display marks
of nationality, registration, ownership, and address, as
required by ordinance.
Article l0. Aircraft shall not be used unless provided
with certificates of airworthiness and certificates of regis-
tration, in addition to displaying the marks required by
the foregoing article.
Article ll. The administrative authorities may inspect
aircraft periodically or without notice.
Article 12. The provisions of the first two paragraphs
of Article 5 and the provisions of Article 10 shall not ap-
ply to aircraft while at air fields designated for aircraft
inspection, and they shall not apply to aircraft flying
at places specified by ordinance.
Article 13. Details regarding inspection and registra-
tion of aircraft pursuant to provisions of Articles 5, 7, 8,
and ll shall be specified by ordinance.
Article l4. Pursuant to the inspection referred to in
Article ll, the administrative authorities may restrict,
suspend, or prohibit the use of the aircraft inspected
insofar as required by the actual condition of such aircraft.
When use of aircraft is thus restricted, the administra-
tive authorities shall write such restriction into the
certificates of airworthiness of such aircraft; when use
of such aircraft is suspended certificate of airworthiness
of such aircraft shall be retained by the administrative
authorities during the period of such suspension.
Chapter III.
Crew.
Article 15.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
Article 15. Persons other than certified aircraft
crew shall not board and operate aircraft.
Crew shall possess certificates of competence and
aviation licenses.
Article l6. Certificates of competence shall be
granted to persons who have passed the examination pre-
scribed by the administrative authorities in accordance
with ordinance. Possessors of certificates of competence
may obtain aviation licenses in accordance with ordinance.
Article 17. Crew shall not be permitted to engage
in aviation unless in possession of certificates of com-
petence and aviation licenses.
Article 18. The administrative authorities may examine
crew periodically or without notice.
Article 19. The first paragraph of Article 15 shall
not apply to persons boarding and operating aircraft while
undergoing aviation training at air fields or placas designated
by ordinance.
Article 20. The administrative authorities may restrict,
suspend, or cancel flying privileges of crew when such crew
do not engage in aviation for an uninterrupted period of
six months, or when such action is deemed necessary as
a result of examination under Article 18, or such action
is termed necessary for the maintenance of peace and order.
When privileges are restricted in accordance with the
foregoing, the administrative authorities shall write such
restriction into the aviation licenses. When privileges
are suspended, aviation licenses shall be retained by the
administrative authorities during the period of suspension.
Crew

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
Crew whose privileges have been canceled under the
provisions of the first paragraph of this article shall
return their aviation licenses to the administrative au-
thorities within fourteen days from the cancelation.
Chapter IV.
Air Fields and Operators of Air Fields.
Article 2l. Persons desiring to establish, to alter
the boundaries of, or to disesteblish air fields for public
use shall obtain permission of the administrative authori-
ties therefor. This provision shall arply also to persons
desiring to alter the function of air fields from public
use to private use, or from private use to public use.
Article 22. Cperators of air fields for public use
shall equip air fields for aviation purposes in accordance
with ordinance.
Article 23. Without permission of the administrative
authorities, operators of air fields for public use shall
not use such air fields for non-public purposes nor shall
they allow other persons so to use such air fields.
Article 24. If within five hundred meters from air
fields there are obstacles to aviation, the administrative
authorities shall order the operators of such air fields
to install any aviation beacon deemed necessary.
Operators of air fields who deem it necessary, in the
installation or maintenance of aviation beacons required
under the foregoing paragraph, may, after ottaining permis-
sion from the administrative authorities, enter and make
use of other persons' property when necessary to the re-
moval of such obstacles, provided owners be informed in
advance

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
advance and provided such actions be executed after sunrise
and before sunset.
In event of emergency, and when necessary for the
maintenance of aviation beacons referred to in the first
paragraph of this article, operators of air fields may, in
spite of the foregoing paragraph, enter the property of
other persons and remove obstacles, or make any necessary
use of property without delay. In such event operators
shall immediately report to the administrative authorities
and inform such property owners.
Article 25. Damage resulting from the entry of opera-
tors of air fields into property belonging to other persons,
or resulting from the removal of obstacles, or resulting
from use of property as provided in Article 24, shall be
compensated for by such operators of air fields.
If agreement is not reached with regard to damage to
be compensated for under the foregoing paragraph, the parties
to the dispute may request the administrative authorities
to fix the amount.
If either of the parties to the dispute does not accept
the decision made by the administrative authorities in ac-
cordance with the terms of the foregoing paragraph, such
party may appeal to the courts within three months from the
date of such decision.
Article 26. The provisions of the second and third
paragraphs of Article 24, and the provisions of Article 25,
with the exception of provisions relating to permission
of the administrative authorities and the presontation of
reports to the administrative authorities specified in
Article 24, shall apply to installation or maintenance of
aviation

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
aviation beacons deemed necessary when there is an obstacle
to aviation within five hundred meters from air fields for
military use.
Article 27. Except when specifically authorized by
the administrative authorities, operators of air fields
for public use shall not refuse to any airplane or airship
the privilege of landing and of taking off.
Operators of air fields referred to in the foregoing
paragraph who desire to charge fees for use of such air
fields by others shall fix such fees in advance with the
approval of the administrative authorities.
Article 28. Except with the permission of the adminis-
trative authorities, operators of air fields not for public
use shall not allow aircraft owned or operated by others
either to land or to take off from such air fields.
Chapter V.
Aivation and Transportation.
Article 29. On land, neither airplanes nor airships
shall be allowed either to land or to take off in places
other than air fields; on water, neither airplanes nor
airships shall be allowed either to come down or to take
off in places which are prohibited by ordinance. This pro-
vision shall not apply to accidents of aircraft, nor to
measures taken to avoid disaster, nor to unavoidable cir-
cumstances, nor to instances when the permission of the
administrative authorities has been obtained.
Article 30. No aircraft shall, without sufficient
reason, fly over Imperial palaces, Imperial gardons, Im-
perial villas, or places where the Emperor is temporarily
staying

=== Page 121 === (confidence 1.00)
- 10 -
staying or worshipping, nor shall aircraft fly above
Imperial mausoleums at an elevation of less than one
thousand meters.
In addition to the foregoing, places may be spe-
cified by ordinance for the restriction or prohibition
of aviation.
Article 31. The administrative authorities may
prohibit the operation of aircraft when deemed necessary
in time of war or emergency.
Article 32. Except with the permission of the ad-
ministrative authorities, aircraft other than Japanese
aircraft shall not be operated.
Article 33. Aircraft taking off from points outside
Japan to land in points within Japan, and aircraft taking
off from points in Japan to land in places outside Japan,
shall follow air routes specified by the administrative
authorities. This provision shall equally apply to air-
craft taking off from points outside Japan to land at
points outside Japan, flying over Japan but not landing
therein.
Article 34. Except with the permission of the adminis-
trative authorities, aircraft taking off from points outside
Japan to land at points within Japan, and aircraft taking
off from points within Japan to land at points outside
Japan, shall land or take off only at air fields specified
by the administrative authorities.
Article 35. Except with the permission of the adminis-
trative authorities, aircraft which are not Japanese air-
craft shall not be permitted to carry passengers or goods
between points within Japan and charge fees therefor.
Article 36.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
Article 36. Except with the permission of the ad-
ministrative authorities, Japanese aircraft shall not
be allowed to engage in transportation.
Chapter VI.
Miscellaneous Provisions.
Article 37. Rights relating to the use of land or
water necessary for the installation of aviation beacons
or for the establishment of air fields for public use, as
well as other rights relating to land, may be expropriated
or used, in accordance with the law of expropriation.
Article 38. Air fields for public use shall be re-
leased from payment of land tax upon application by the
tax payers. This provision shall not apply to sites
temporarily so used, nor to sites for which ground rent
is paid.
Article 39. The provisions of the customs law which
relate to ships, to captains of ships, to articles for
use on ships and in marine transportation, to the investi-
gation of offenses committed with regard to ships, to the
measures to be taken, and to punishments, shall equally be
applied to aircraft, captains of aircraft, accessories for
aircraft,transportation of merchandise by aircraft, and
investigations of offenses committed in connection with
such aircraft, accessories, or transportation; provided,
howewer, that the words "open ports" as used in the customs
law shall correspond to air fields as stipulated in Article
34.
Article 40. If aircraft referred to in Article 33
lands at points other than the air fields stipulated in
Article

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
Article 34 on account of breakdown, to avoid disaster,
or because of other unavoidable circumstance, the fact
shall immediately be reported to customs officials of
the place, or to the police if customs officials are not
stationed at such place.
Except with the permission of the administrative
authorities, aircraft referred to in the foregoing para-
graph shall not be allowed to take off.
Article 4l. Aircraft taking off from points outside
Japan and landing at points in Japan shall be subject to
quarantine for the prevention of infectious diseases in
accordance with ordinance.
Article 42. The provisions of the foregoing article
shall apply to Chosen, Taiwan, and Japan proper including
Karafuto.
Article 43. Relief of aircraft in event of disaster,
and penalties in connection therewith, shall be governed
in accordance with the marine disaster and relief law.
Article 44. The following matters shall be governed
by ordinance:
A. The keeping of logs and other books and records
to be provided in aircraft.
B. The carrying of ammunition and other explosives,
photographic apparatus, and other articles the
transportation of which may be restricted or pro-
hibited for military reasons or for reasons of
public peace and order.
C. Aircraft lights and signals.
D. Restrictions necessary in aviation in connection
with maintenance of public peace and order and
the

=== Page 124 === (confidence 1.00)
- 13 -
the prevention of collisions between aircraft
and between vessels and aircraft.
E. Aviation beacons and their installation.
F. Air field equipment.
Article 45. The responsible administrative officials
may suspend the privilege of taking off or of landing of
aircraft when deemed necessary.
Article 46. The responsible administrative officials
may examine aircraft, air fields, and hangars, and inspect
books or other records provided in aircraft in accordance
with the present law or ordinances issued under authority
of the present law, when deemed necessary.
Article 47. For Chosen and Taiwan special provisions
may be established by ordinance, with regard to the stipu-
lations of Article 38, Article 43, and of the second para-
graph of Article 37.
Chapter VII.
Penalties.
Article 48. Persons who have damaged, rendered use-
less, or destroyed aircraft beacons shall be subject to
imprisonment with hard labor for less than three years, or
to fine of less than three thousand yen.
Article 49. Persons who have endangered the safety
of aviation by deceptive signals, or by other illegal means,
shall be subject to imprisonment for more than two years
with hard labor.
Article 50. Persons who have caused aircraft to fall
from the air or who have capsized or sunk or destroyed air-
craft used for aviation shall be subject to penal servitude
for life or to imprisonment of more than three years with
hard

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
hard labor.
This provision shall apply also to persons who by
committing any act covered by the foregoing articles
has caused aircraft to fall from the air or has capsized
or sunk or destroyed aircraft used for aviation.
Article 5l. Persons who have committed offenses
stipulated in the foregoing two articles and have thereby
caused the death of a person or persons shall be subject
to capital punishment or life imprisonment.
Article 52. Persons who have endangered aviation
by negligence, or who have unintentionally caused aircraft
to fall from the air, or have capsized, sunk, or destroyed
aircraft used for aviation, shall be subject to fine of
less than two thousand yen.
Persons engaged in the business of aviation who have
committed offenses referred to in the foregoing paragraph
shall be subject to imprisonment of less than three years
or fine of less than three thousand yen.
Article 53. Persons guilty of fraud in the examinations
stipulated in Article 5 and Article ll, or who have offered
false information to the administrative authorities for
registration, shall be subject to imprisonment of less than
two years with hard labor, or to fine of less than two
thousand yen.
Article 54. Persons who have attempted, but who have
not carried out, the offenses referred to in Article 49,
the first paragraph of Article 50, and Article 53, shall
be punished accordingly.
Article 55. Persons falling within the following
definitions

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15 -
definitions shall be subject to imprisonment of less than
three years with hard labor, or fine of less than three
thousand yen:
A. Those who have offered for aviation aircraft
which failed to pass the examination provided
in Articles 5 and ll or who have ignored the
provisions of Article 32.
B. Those who have ignored orders issued by the
administrative authorities under the terms of
the first paragraph of Article 14.
C. Those who have attempted to fly aircraft which
do not exhibit marks of nationality and regis-
tration in accordance with provisions of Article
9, or who have attempted to fly aircraft exhibit-
ing false marks of nationality or registration in
contravention of Article 9.
Article 56. Persons who have violated the provisions
of the first paragraph of Article 15, or who have ignored
orders issued by the administrative authorities in ac-
cordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of
Article 20, shall be subject to imprisonment for less than
one year or fine of less than one thousand yen.
Article 57. Persons who have ignored the provisions
of the first paragraph of Article 30 shall be subject to
imprisonment of less than seven years with hard labor.
Persons who have ignored the limitations or prohibitions
stipulated in the third paragraph of Article 30, or have
ignored the provisions of Article 3l, or have ignored the
provisions

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
- 16-
provisions of Article 33, shall be subject to imprison-
ment of less than three years with hard labor, or to fine
of less than three thousand yen.
Article 58. Persons who have ignored the provisions
of Article 29, or who have ignored orders issued by the
responsible administrative officials under the terms of
Article 45, shall be subject to imprisonment of less than
two years with hard labor, or to fine of less than two
thousand yen.
Article 59. Persons falling within the following
definitions shall be subject to imprisonment of less than
one year with hard labor, or to fine of less than one
thousand yen:
A. Those who have ignored orders issued by the
administrative authorities in accordance with
the provisions of the first paragraph of Arti-
cle 24.
B. Those who have without cause refused or ob-
structed or avoided either personal visit or
inspection by the responsible administrative
authorities, or who have failed to reply to
questions by the responsible administrative
authorities, or who have made false statements.
Article 60. Persons falling within the following
definitions shall be subject to fine of less than five
hundred yen:
A. Those who have attempted to fly aircraft which
do not show names, titles, and addresses of owners
of such aircraft, in contravention of the provisions
of

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
of Article 9, or who have attempted to fly air-
craft showing false names, titles, and addresses.
B. Those who have attempted to fly aircraft not
provided with aviation licenses or certificates
of registration, in contravention of the provi-
sions of Article 10.
C. Those who have violated the provisions of Arti-
cle 17.
Article 6l. Persons who have ignored the provisions
of Article 21, Article 22, the first paragraph of Article
27, Article 28, Article 34, Article 35, Article 36, and
the second paragraph of Article 40, shall be subject to
fine of less than two thousand yen.
Article 62. Persons falling within the following
definitions shall be subject to fine of less than five
hundred yen:
A. Those who have ignored the provisions of Arti-
cle 23.
B. Those who have charged for the use of air fields
without the permission required by the second para-
graph of Article 27.
Article 63. Persons falling within the following
definitions shall be subject to fine of less than two
hundred yen:
A. Those who have ignored the first or second para-
graphs of Article 5.
B. Those who have failed to apply for registration
in accordance with provisions of the third paragraph
of Article 7 or the third paragraph of Article 8.
C.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
- 18 -
C. Those who have failed to return aviation
licenses or certificates of registration under
the provisions of the first and second paragraphs
of Article 8.
D. Those whc have failed to return aviation licenses
in accordance with provisions of the third para-
graph of Article 20.
E. Those who have failed to make report in accordance
with the provisions of the first paragraph of Arti-
cle 40.
The fine of less than two hundred yen stipulated in
this article shall apply to managers and directors of
juridical persons and to other officers who manage the
business of juridical persons.
Article 64. The provisions of Articles 206, 207, and
208 of the code of non-litigious procedure shall apply to
payment of the fine of less than two hundred yen stipulated
in the foregoing article.
Supplementary Rule
The date for the enforcement of the present law
shall be specified by ordinance.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 1.00)
Amendment of Aviation Law.
Law No. 34, May 29, 1936.
The aviation law amendment approved by the
Imperial Diet is hereby sanctioned and promulgated.
Parts of the aviation law are hereby amended as
follows:
Article 1. In the present law the word aircraft
means airplanes, airships, balloons, gliders, and other
apparatus capable of being boarded by persons and used
for aviation.
Aviation in the present law includes a gliding up
above the surface on land or water, taking off from and
coming down on land, and taking off and coming down on
water.
Article 3. The following clause is added:
For aircraft specifically defined by ordinance, special
provisions may be established by ordinance with regard to
the provisions of Chapters II, III and IV.
Article 17. Crew shall not be permitted to engage in
aviation unless in possession of aviation licenses.
Article 23, section 2. For the safety of aviation
the administrative authorities may specify for public
use a special zone within limits up to one thousand
meters from the boundaries of air fields.
Persons

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Persons desiring to maintain or place within
such zones objects such as ships and trees shall obtain
permission of the administrative authorities therefor
when such objects exceed the heights below set forth,
provided that no limitation shall apply to vegetation
not exceeding one meter in height:
A. A height of one-thirtieth of the horizontal
distance between the location of such object
and nearest boundary of the air field, if
within five hundred meters.
B. A height of seventeen meters plus one-twentieth
of the horizontal distance between the location
of such objects, within such zone, and the nearest
boundary of the air field.
Artiole 23, section 3. Persons who have, through
ignorance, violated the provisions of the foregoing
section, shall be ordered, or their legal representatives
shall be ordered, by administrative authorities to reduce
the height of or to remove, within a specified period of time,
objeots above the heights stipulated in clauses A and B of
the foregoing section.
When objects, in such zones established under the first
paragraph of section 2 hereof, exceed the heights stipulated
in the second paragraph of the said section, the adminis-
trative authorities shall order the owner or his legal
representative to reduce the heights of or to remove, within
a specified period of time, that part of such objects as
is above the heights established in the said second para-
graph.
Article

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Article 25. The first paragraph is amended as
follows:
Damage resulting from actions in accordance with
orders issued by the administrative authorities under the
second paragraph of section 3 of Article 23, or resulting
from the removal of obstacles in accordance with the
foregoing Article, shall be compensated for by operators
of air fields. This provision shall also apply to losses
sustained by reason of abandonment or alteration necessi-
tated by the specifying of zones under the authority of
the first paragraph of section 2 of Article 23.
Article 26. The following is added as the first
paragraph of Article 26:
The provisions of the second and third sections of
Article 23 and the provisions of Article 25 and clause A
of Article 59 shall apply to instances of special zones
specified in connection with air fields for military use
and in connection with sites officially selected for air
fields.
Article 35. After the words "between points within
Japan" insert the words "or between points outside Japan
and points within Japan".
Article 38, section 2. The administrative authori-
ties may, in accordance with ordinance, restrict or pro-
hibit aviation beacons or other lights likely to impair
the safety of aviation.
Artiole

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
Article 59. In clause A the words "the first para-
graph of Article 24" are amended to read "section 3 of
Article 23 or the first paragraph of Article 24".
Supplementary Rule. The date for the enforcement
of the present law should be specified by ordinance.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
894.7961
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.7961/33
SEE
894.0144/29
FOR.....Letter.
Pan American Airways
FROM
Cooper
) DATEDSept141937
TO
NAME
1-1127
Alleged flight of aircraft of U.S. registry over Island of
REGARDING:
Rota, on or about Oct 25, 1936.
Plane, under command of Captain Musick, passed to north of
this Island, en route to Guam from Midway; this in accordance
with instructions to avoid unauthorized flight over foreign
territory or territorial waters.
F/MR
FRG.
3
3

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
811.79690 Pan American Airways/82
FOR
#2133
894.7961/
FROM
Japan
Dickover
DATED
Nov. 13,1936
TO
NAME
1-1127
Flight of an unknown plane over the Island of Rota in the Marianne
3
REGARDING:
group. Japancse authorities presume that plane was one of the
4
clipper airplanes of Pan American Airways and requests that the
Pan American Airways be warned against a repetition of the flight
over the island in question.
4
力
wb

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Croation of National Policy Aviation Company.
Report conoerning -, enclosing translations of
the Japan Aviation Company Law and Ordinance for
enforcement of same, which form the baokground
for this development.
894.7961/
aa
5
5
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See despatch # 4015
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From
Dated
July 6,1939
Japan (Dooman)
To
C
B
File No.
894.796/52
894.7961
1-1840

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
894.7961
SUBJECT
Commercial aviation tariffs in Japan.
Furnishes data covering Governmental regulation of -
894.7961/36
9
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See 4044
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Dated.....Jnly.19..1939
From
Japan(Dooman)
To
File No. ..800.7961/196
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540
so

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Regulation of rates of Japanese air carriers.
Encloses copy of note from Foreign Office
regarding -.
1w
C94.7961/37
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Desp. 4166
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From Japan (Dooman)
Dated
Oct. 9, 1939
To
800.7961/201
File No.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 2, 1933.
Nagoya's voluntary report of
November 29, 1932, reports that an
airport at Nagoya will be started
this year and completed in 1938.
2
LES:KC
