894.105 Public Order, Safety, Health, And Works. Charities And Philanthropic Organizations., Japan, Police Organization., October 14, 1947 - October 20, 1949 (File 1773)
ID: 894.105-1773   Pages: 137   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.105-public-order-safety-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
LO NOT DETACH THIS FORM.
FILE NO.
894.105/10-1447
R ECOR D
C O P Y
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NTED THE RECORD COPY TO REFLACE THE CRIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
DESP.1334 FROM TOKYO
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
--000--
JUN1-80

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
UNTTED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
NOV6-1947
FOR JAPAN
Roc'd
ct.27,1947
ACTION
FL
Tolyo, Ootober 14, 1947.
LNFO
RESTRICTED
OCD
FC
No。1334
DCR
AS
SPA
CIG
SUBJECT: Roforn of openeo: Polico System.
0-0-0
Tho Honorable
894.105/10-1447
The Socratary of Sta
Unshington.
Sir:
I have tho honor i forward horewith copies of an exchange
of correspondonce betwein Japanese Prime inister Totau KATAYAn
and Goneral of the Army Douglas MeoArthur on tho subjut of the
1/
roform of tho Japaneso :plice system. Tho Prime Snis:er's letter,
which is dated Septembe: 3, has not been made publio, although
quotations from it eppo: in General MacArthur's reply. The latter's
reply, dated Septambor 1, was made public by the Japanso Govern-
21
ment on October 9, 1947, and has received extenoive covarage both in
the English-languago a. vornacular pross.
Following the Goornoont's release of the toxt of Ginral
LacArthur's lotter w/er roforonco, Chiof Cabinet Socrotar' Suohiro
3/
NISiIo iseued a stat ont on tho subjoct on October 9, coyy of which
is onelosed. The Co ernment's Polico Roform Bill, which, iccording
to press reports, i/ to ho prosented co the Diet by Octoler 20,
1947, wae approvod n fiual form et 1 full meeting of thu (nbinet
on October11.
In addition i) considorable novs covorago of the exohenge of
correapondence an? the C:vernmant', conforences on the projosed
roform, oditorial commen; in the Japanese pross han been heavy.
In ite editorial murvoy overing the meek endod Octobor 11, the
Nippon Times on (etober ? surmariced editorial reactions of the
Mminichi Shimbun, Apahi, ihon Keiaai, Yomiuri, and Jiji Shimpo.
A copy of portinant portlons of thiy ourvey and of complote texts
of various editoriale tint have appeared to date are onclored.
Reapoctfully jours,
W. J. Sehrld
/cting Political Adviser
Enclo:tres:

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
Toleyo's 1334,
Octobor 14, 1947
-20
Enclosuros:
1. Copy of Prime Ministor Tetau
KATAYA A's lottor of Septembor
3, 1947。
2。
Copy of Genoral of tho Army
Douglas MhoArthur'e reply of
Septembor 16, 1947.
3。
Statamert iasued on October 9,
1947 by Cabinet Secretary
Suehiro NISHIO.
40
Excerpt from columm entitled
"Editorial Survey" of Nippon
Times of October 12, 1947.
5。
Single copios of oight editoriale
from Japanese prees of October 10,
11, and 12.
Original and hectograph to Dopartment.
810.5
Burnett/ble

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
Tnclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 1334, dated October 14, 1947.
from the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject "Reform of Japanese Police Syetem".
COPX
Tokyo, September 3, 1947
Dear General of the Army,
In accordance mith your suggestion made during our conver-
sation on 26 Auguot, 1947, I have the honor to submit in writing
the basic reform plan of the Jepanese Government on the police
syatom as herein enclosed.
I should be very grateful if you would be kind enough to
give your coneideration to the plan and edvise me of your
commente and instructions thoreon. I chall be ready to come to
receive your instructions eny time at your convenience.
Very sincorely yours,
(Signed) Tbtsu Katayama

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tolyo's 13%,
October 14, 1947.
≈ 2
1. Evor oinco tho formation of the present Cabinet, the Govern-
mont has bean giving a careful study to the police system in order
to roform it in consonance nith tho now situstion created by the
enforcamont of tho new constitution, and, as a result of such atudy,
it hac recontly axrived at a tontative conclusion on the basic prin-
ciples vhich will govern the roform. In viow of ite political sig-
nificance and bearings on tho public peace or military iaplications,
the Primo Ministor of Japan viahes to hereby submit the Govermment
roform plan informally and diroctly to the Suprome Commander for the
Allied rovera, vith a view to seeking first of all hie high opinions
on tho matter so that the Covornment may materialize its study in
accordanco with his directions and recoumendations.
2. In tho course of its study on the problem in question, the
Govornment has given a thought to the mamorandum of the Japanese
Government dated 20 February 1947 and the informal suggestions
edvanced by the cectiono concorned of the Goneral leadquarters. The
Govermment, hovever, has etrived for tho forulation of a reform
plan of its oun from an indopendent standpoint, without any of the
abovo rostrictiono and based on the needs of true democratization
of Japan and tho necessity to ensuro the domestic public peace.
3. Prior to arriving at the prosent plan, the Government
ostabliahed a special comittee within the Cabinet to study the
problem, in vhich two fundamentally conflicting proposals wore
brought forth.
One of the two aims primarily at the perfection of local self-
government and tho fundamontal remedy of the misuse of the police
by the stato povwer as in tho paet. It is a progressive plan whereby
all the uniformed police vill be tranaferred to the six large muni-
cipalities ond profoctures, leaving to the central governmont only
cortain synthetic and technical functions (police schools, finger
prints buroau, sciontific criminal investigations, police radio
communications, spocial detective corps, etc.) and, only in case of
emergency, may the Prime Minister exeroise control ovor the local
police vithin tho limitatione of law.
The other purports to conserve the national police to a large
extent and to place the metropoliten police under the national
polico, vhile ostabliahing the police of a local public ontity only
in cities of ovor 200,000 population. According to this plan, the
national polico is not only by far the larger in mudber but also
may direct city police in caso of guard and protection of the objects
of national importance and certain national offenses. This may be
called a consorvative plan.
4. Considering that porfeotion of local self-govermment is a
proroquisite for tho democratization of Japan, it is clear that from
the political standpoint the decentralization of power is also
desirable in the fiold of the police. Accordingly, the police power
should be in principle entrusted vith a local public entity by
rectifying the prosent syoten whereby the contral government has
jurisdiction over personnel as well as organization and operation
of the police, mhile an olected governor is made responsible, within
a very limited scope, only to the police administration in the area
of his jurisdiotion.
on

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyota 1334,
C0tober 14, 1947.
-3
In the other hand, however, in view of the fact that the
maintenance of the public order in Japan without armed forces
is solely dependent on the police foroe, and that we cannot expact
and depend upon the situation of complete occupation by the Allied
Forces, especially vhen we think of a long future, it is deemed
too hasardous for the central government to deprive itself of all
its ovm resourcos to maintain the public safety.
5. After a cereful study, thereforo, the Government proposes
to take the middle course batween the above tmo extreme plans and
to pursue a policy alloving the co-existence of both the national
and local public entity police. Although delegation of the police
power to the local public entities inevitably lacks completeness
under this plan, it ie our belief that vo may improve and eliminate,
even under the syatem of a national police, the situation in which
the Japanose police in the past was used as an instrument of the
suppression of human rights and the totalitarianism, by a vigorous
enforcement of edninistrative supervision by the Diet, reform in
the judicial adminietrative syeteu, improvement of the police system,
discipline and betterment of gualities of police personnel, and the
l1ko.
6. There shall be ostablished the national police with the
maximum strength of 30,000 uniformed police. There are two con-
ceivable waye of disposition of the national police, one of which
is to concentrate tho national police in the metropolis or several
localities, and the other is to distribute it throughout the rural
districte outside the jurisdiction of the local (city) police as
will be stated presently.
On the other hand, there are two possible ways of establishing
the local police. It mey be established either in each prefecture or
in each municipality as a unit, and either one has its advantages and
disadvantages.
e should like to adopt here a scheme under which the national
police shall be distributed throughout the country and shall have
juriediction over the rural. districts, vhile the local police shall
be eetabliehed in municipalities.
7. In soparating the national police and the local police, a
good result cannot be expected by effecting the separation at once
in viow of the present financial status of local public entities,
and, therofore, tho transition from the precent syatem to the organ-
ization under consideration should be gradually undertaken. e deem
it proper to establish the city police in the firet instance in
large municipalities, say, several cities of over 200,000 population,
which are ready financially and otherwise.
The national police shall gradually bo decreased to the total
of 30,O00 as stated in the above while the local (city) police shall
gradually be expanded to include cities of over 50,000 population.
8. The national police shall have the Public Safety Board as
the central headquarters and shall be authorized to establish its
local headquarters in approximately eight places throughout the
country. The Public Safety Board nay either be established within
the Prime Minister's Office or be placed under the jurisdiction of
the Justice Ministry. While there is an opinion which favore the
formor

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.95)
Fncl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 1334,
October 14, 1947.
-4-
former in order to reep the police free from abuses of extrome party
politics and to forestall its omergence as an influential political
forco in the central government, others maintain that if the national
police is to bo established it is not appropriate to place the Public
Safety Board vaguoly under the Prime inistor's Office without making
any Cabinet tinister responaible who is in turn rospongible to the
Diet, sinco it might recult in tho preservation of buroaucratic forces.
In tho lest analysis, it is deamed proper to place the national
polico under the juriediction of a responsible Cabinet unister other
than tho Prim anioter.
9. 1.s for the sizo and oquipmante of the police. it is our
beliof that in coneidoration of the future status of the occupation
by the Allied Forces, the police force will bave to be sufficient in
sizo and adequate in capacity to maintain the donostie public order
on ita own repources.
por tho inmediate future, vo hope that consideration be given to
increaso the total nuabor of polico to 125, 000, including 30,000 to
be rotained as the national polico as statod in tho above.
10. The present plan is concerned vith the general police. In
addition to this, homover, it is needless to say that there are to bo
oconomic inspectors, railwmy patrol guards, customs inspectors and
sos control (coast guard) agency as spocial police organizations under
the direct jurisdiction of the central govornment. Espocially on the
last agoncy, it is our sincere hopo that consideration be given so that
it may bo strongthoned in near future to meintain arpropriate number
of vossels and porsonnel sufficient to cope mith its task of maintain-
ing, in complament with the police on land, the publio safety on the
sea around Japan which is vithout armed forcos.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 1334, dated October 14, 1947,
from the Unitod States Political Advisor for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject "Roform of Japanese Police System".
COPY
Tokyo, September 16, 1947.
Dear Mr. Prime Miister:
I heve given careful consideration to your letter of Soptem-
ber 3rd and to the plan for the reorganigation of the police aystem
submitted thorewith. I fully underatand your diffioulty in reaching
an acceptable compromise between the two divergent achools of
thought of which you speak--a coupromiee which will prove adequately
effective to mest the requisitee for the proservation of law and
order within Japan, and yet at the same time not impinge upon the
ideal of human liberty to which the people of Japan are now committed,
nor upon that fundemental principlo indispeneable to a demoeratic
society so aptly stated in the Preamble of the Constitution of Japan
"Covernment is a paored trust of the people, the authority for which
is derived from the people, and tho benefits of which are enjoyed by
the people."
I am in full accord with the proposition that the realities of
the situation require the maintenance of a national rural police unit
to maintain law and order in the rural areas and available to the
National Government to meet emergency conditions with which police
forces available to the several local goverments may be unable ade-
quately to cope, and your suggested increase in the overall authorized
police strength to 125,000 men, to provide for such a national rural
police moets with my full approval. I am not in accord, however, with
the iden of, nor the nocessity for, delaying the decentralization of
the police power now existing, as I feel that the preservation of that
power in its present centralized form is wholly incompatible with the
spirit and intent of the now Constitution and inimical to democratio
growth.
It has been a dominant characteristic of modern totalitarian
dictatorahipe, as it was in Japan's feudalistic paet, to establish
and maintain a strongly centralized police bureaucracy headed by a
chief executive officer beyond the reach of popular control. Indeed,
the strongest weapon of the military clique in Japan in the decade
prior to the war was the absolute authority exercised by the national
govermment over the thought police and the Kempei Tai, extending down
to prefectural lovels of government. Through these media, the
military were enabled to spread a network of political espionage,
suppress freedom of speech, of assembly, and even of thought, and by
means of tyrannical oppression to degrade the dignity of the individual.
Japan was thus in the fullest sense a police state.
It is in recognition of this condition that the police system
must be so reorganized as to provide what you so clearly describe
in your letter as a "fundamental remedy of the misuse of the police
by the state power as in the past." In the achievement of this
objective the potentiality of a police state inherent in centralized
control must scrupulously be avoided. It should never again be
possible

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. No. 2 to
Tokyo's 1334,
Octobor 14, 1947.
2
possible for anti-democratic elements, sither of the extreme right
or the extrome loft, to enmesh the freedom of the people in a web
of polico terroriam.
This basic pbjective can best be accomplished by the thorough
decentralizetionthe police system in accordence vith the principle
of Local autonony embodied in the Constitution. Each city and town
should be responsible for the preservation of law and order within
ite boundaries through its ovn local police system independent of
tho central govermment and heeded by a police chief to be appointed
and renovable by a conmission composed of three civilian members
appointed by ho mayor of tho city or torn with the consent of the
local assombly and holding office for a fixed term of years. At the
profectural level there should also be a corresponding commission
vindlarly appointed which vill exercise oporational control over the
national rural police operating vithin the boundaries of that pre-
fecture, reserving to the national governaent administrative authority
over such nationel rural police wherovor stationed.
Such a reformation of the Japanese police systen would be in
consonance with the gonoral pattern of the reorganization of the
Japanose g vernaental structure, integrating police officials and
services as agencies of the people at the appropriate levels of
governmont. Action toward such end should proceed imediately upon
anactmont of the arpropriate statute.
Tho national govermment should allocate the nocessary funds
until such time as local financing is possible. So long as it is
necessary for the national government to make allocations of funds,
the strongth of the police in the various localities should remain
fixed at the present number, but after provisions have been made for
the localities to asewme the financial burdon, the responeibility for
determining the necossary numbers within t cir rospective borders
should belong to the cities and towns, in accordance with local
requirements.
The necessary legislation should, of course, be enacted at the
present session of the Diot. If vigorously prosecuted, I believe
that complotion of the plan may be accomplishod within a period of
ninety days thereaftor.
As to an appropriate organization on the national lovel, I
believe that there should be created directly under the authority
of the Cabinet a Public Safety Commission composed of five members
who have not been career officials either in the police or the civil
service. Such commission should be appointed by the Prime 'inister,
with the consent of tho Diet, and should hold office for a fixed
term of years.
To prevent the resurgence in disguised form of a centrally
controlled national police network no channel of comaand should exist
botmeen the national rural police unit and the local police foroes,
but technical channels of commnication should, of course, be per-
mitted in the interest of overall efficiency and to facilitate a
relationship of mutual assistance, liaison and coordination. Tho
intervention

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. No. 2 to
Tolkyo's 1334,
October 14, 1947.
-3-
intervention by the national government into control over pre-
fectural or local police affaire should temporarily be provided
for, however, in the event of a national amergeney when, upon the
recommendation of the National Public Safety Commiesion, the Prime
Minister might assume oporational control over prefectural unite of
the national rural police force, subjeet to ratification by the
Diet within twenty days. In this way the authority of the prefee-
tural governor may be protected against arbitrary police interference
by the national government, at the seme time affording adequate
safeguard for the national interest.
Im the past, one of the ill-conceived aspecte of the Japanese
police syetem wae the exercise by police ofriciale of mumerous
administrsive functions not related to the task of investigation
and apprehension of criminals or the preservation of public order.
All such funotions should be exercieed by non-police representatives
of the particular ministry heving responsibility for such matters,
and wherever proper should be decentralised to local public entitiee
in accordance vith the provisions of the Constitution conferring
upon such entities "the right to manage their property, affairs and
administration."
Closely related to the law enforcement process is, as you have
specifically pointed out in your lottor, the subject of reform in
the judicial administrative system. Under the Constitution of Japan,
the Supreme Court is now vested mith the administration of judicial
affairs and the rule-making power. With the establishment of an
independent judiciary, the Ministry of Justice no longer is respons-
ible for the determination of rules of procedure and of practice,
the internal discipline of the courts, or other attributee of the
judicial process. Morsover, with the diminution of the role of the
proourators in the administration of justice end their subordination
to the rule-making power of the Supreme Court, the basic attributes
of the procuratorial system under the linistry of Justice have been
radically revised.
On the other hand, to the Cabinet, as the executive branch of
the government, is expresely delegated the responsibility for execut-
ing the provisions of the Constitution and of the laws enaoted by
the National Diet, as well as for determining questions of amnesty,
commutation of punishment, and restoration of rights. To reflect
adequately this constitutional separation of powers, it would ssem
desirable that the 'Bnistry of Justice, within which authority over
adjudicative functions has been traditionally intermingled with exe-
cutive power, be replaced by an Attorney General, sitting in the
Cabinet as a Minister of State and serving as the chief legal adviser
to the executive branch of the government.
To administer the laws effectively requires the clomest
coordination betwsen police officials charged with the apprehension
of offenders against the national lans, and publio attorneys charged
with the prosecution thereof. The establishment of an Attorney
General's Office with the responsibility of conducting all litigation,
criminal and civil, in which the governmont has a direct interest,
and of furnishing all legal advice to the Prime Minister and other
Ministers of State in the discharge of their duties, would I believe
provide a mechanimm for such close coordination, facilitate the
faithful

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. No. 2 to
Tokyos 1334,
October 14, 1947.
4
faithful execution of the laws, and mupport the independence of
the judiciary as the bulwark of the liberties of the people. Con-
sistent with this concept of an Attorney General, the present
Legislative Dureau of the Cabinet can bo dispensed with in the
interest of govern.ental efficiency and economy.
"ithin the framework of the plan outlined in your letter, modi-
fied in the manner I have indicated, I feel confident that a law
enforcetent systen may be evolved in Japan which will satisfy all
reguirements of public safety, which will provide for the definitive
sopnration of the adminiatrative from the judicial proceso, and
which at the sano timo will comply moticulously with the underlying
principles of the Conotitution. In this connoction it should be
borno in mind that, in the final analysis, police power in the pre-
servation of law and order in a democratic society does not attain
its aaximum strength through opprossive controls imposed upon the
poople from above, but rather does it find infinitely greater
strongth in the relationship of a servant of, and answerable directly
to, the psople. Thereby, and thereby alone, may it encourage respect
for the peoplo's luws through confidence and paternalistic pride in
tho police as the law onforcement ageney of the peoplo themselves.
I m hopeful that the legislation necessary to give effect to
these programs in the reorganization of government can be completed
in time for considoration at the current session of the National
Diet. To such end do not heeitate to call upon this headquarters for
any assistance which you baliove would be helpful.
Sincerely yours,
DOUGLAS MaCARTHUR

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 1334, dated October 14, 1947,
from the United States . olitical Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject Refonm of Japunose Police System".
COPY
PRESS STATE ENT BY R. UEHIRO NISHIO, CHIEF SECRETARY OF THE
CABINET, OCTOBER 9, 1947.
Since the formation of the present Cabinet, the Government
has established a special committee of Cabinet inisters speci-
fically vith a view to giving a careful consideration to the reforms
of the police and judicial administrative ayatems consistent with
the new situation uchered in by the enforcement of the new Coneti-
tution, and has striven to determine the basic governing principles
aimed at the perfection of Japan'e democravizatfon and fulfillment
of the requiremente for the preservation of domestic public order
from the standpoint of its own, taking at the same time into due
consideration of the recomendations made by the Police System Investi-
gation Commission at the time of the former Cabinet, the opinione of
the United States experts, etc.
As for the police reform, the Government has, as the consequence
of the study, decided upon a policy whereby the national police will
have the strength of 30,000 uniformed en placed in rural districts,
while local public entities with cortain population will have an inde-
pendent local police, both mainiaining the public order in the time
of normal condition by sufficient mutual cooperation, except for the
national emergency in which the Prime finister way exeroise operational
control over all police forces. Furthermore, it has decided to seek
the approval of the General Headquarters for the increase of the police
strength from the present 1egal limitation of 94, 000 to 125,000 dependent
upon the financial status of the national and local governaents. The
Prime inister brought the above points to the attention of the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Povers for decision.
In rosponee, we have received a considerate letter from the
Supreme Commander which is now for release vith his approval.
The Government is determined to leave nothing to be desired of
Japan's democra ization end preservation of public peace by the
faithful and expeditious materialization of the basic principles
clarified by the letter.
In all reforms, it is required to reorient the former way of
thinking. Especially in the reform of the police system, it is
easily understood that some of our people who have been accustomed
to a system of centralization for many years might entertain a
feeling of uneasiness vis-à-vis the ne: system. Hovever, detail
plans are now being worked out, with the technical assistance from
the Gf: experts, for organization and operation of the police con-
sistent with the new policy, so that, ve are confident, a fresh and
firm system for preservation of public peace will be accomplished.
Inaammch as the basic outlines of the projected new police law
and the Attorney General Law are expected to be determined and made
public shortly and the necessary draft legislatione will be submitted
to

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
Encl。No。3 to
Tokyo's 1334
October 14,1947.
。2
to the current session of the Diet, it is hoped that the public
servants charged vith the preservation of public peace understand
the new system and spare no effort to discharge their responsibi-
litios in time of institutional change.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 4 to Dospatch No. 1334, dated October 14, 1947,
from the linited States Politieal Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject Reform of Japanese Police System".
COPY
EXCERPT FROM EDITORIAL SURVEY" IN NIPPON TIHES OF
OCTOBER 12, 1947
Editorial attention on Friday wam focussed on SCAP's recom-
mendation for decentralisation of the nation's police pomer and
establishment of an Attorney General's office to replace the
Ministry of Justice.
The Aainighi expressed fear that as a rssult of the new system,
politicel pertieo may "exert vicious factional influence" upon the
provincial police force, and the national and provincial police
forces may have difficulty in maintaining "technical contact" between
themselves inasmich as ths Japanese people are poorly adapted to
"koeping themselves horizontally interlinked."
Tho Aeahi advanced that it is the duty of the provinces to
nurture thoir police that can keep clear of the influenos of local
bosses, politi al parties, and moneyed people. The Nihon Keisai said
that until bureaucrats crawl out of their habits to step on others?
toes in discharging their duties, the democratisation of the police
force cannot be hoped.
Responsible for Police
To revamp the nation's police system along demooratic lines, the
Yomiur1 said on Saturday that it is absolutely necessary for the
masses at large to realize that they aro responsible for operation
of the police force in their own district. For the smaller autonomous
bodies will thus be made able to work for preservation of peace and
order on a more efficient soale.
The Jili Shimpo saw special significance in the institution of
the public safoty commission, for it ie destined to imploment a
fundamental remedy of the misuse of the police by the Home Winister
which was notable before and during the war.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.90)
CONFIDENTIAL
Department of State Only
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: October 22, 1948
SUBJECT:
Probloms in the Japenese Police Systen.
PARTICIPANTS:
To. Thy nik Piszo. Speciel Assiatant to General Whitney.
C.te? " Govemment Section. GW, SCAP.
Ir. Richerd L. Sneider. member of the Japen Political Section,
North East Acta Poli macal Brcanch, DRF.
COPIES TO:
 .  . 
HA
Me. Heeebe l Green
1-1403
(Hote: Pb. Riszo lett Tolgo on August ao end is on TDY wIth the Civil Affairs
894.10
Division, Devartment of the Ammy. Lis ofricial position is special assistant
to General Whitney. chic? o? She Government Section, Ge. SCAp. He describes
his  os: tion in Govermment Section ss that of meliator end ceneral handy-man
in mstters of policy cnd operotion. The conversetion witn Mr. Rizzo was
designed to supplement information available in the DRr Situation Report of
Oclober C. lohh on the Jepanese Police System. It can be essumed that
Mr. Riszo's vievs re"leet the opinions of the Government Section, headed by
General Whiney, ul cs such may be  lso conntdered a strong indication of
SCAP .)
1.
Background on bhe Police ay
Mr. Piazo resorhed thet Lhere wes considereble contraversy within both
the Japanese Govermenb enl Ghte be fere the details of the Police Toy were
settled. The neJer tasue in both cireles wae decentrelization of the Police.
Vi thin the Japenese Govermment. a strong clement spearheaded by the Police
j
Affeirs Bureau o? the Home Ministry favored a centrelly organized police under
2
2
a Mnister of Public Sarety. This position was omposed by other elements in
the Cabinet, vhich sumported decenteelizntion thouch not to the extent of the
2
Pinal version of She Tolice Tow. The some split was present in Ghe, where the
Public Safety Division. reflecting the professional police viewpoint, were
pitted pgainst the Goverrment Section. etrong proponents of complete
8
decentrelization.
RM/R
ST
FILED
nal
COIFIDENTIAL
Department of Stete Only
446271

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.89)
CONFIDENTIAL
Department of State Only
2
The Government Section version of the Police Law was finally accepted
vith some slight modifications which cave the nationel government emergency
powers. In forcing extreme decentralization of police organization and
powers. the Government Section realized thnt the efficiency of the police
would be impaired until such time cs the police edjusted to the new situation.
However. it was willing to visk the lewering of efficiency since it
considered decentializction the fundomentel prerequisite of e police refomm
end the onle sure meliod to tobe lly diseredit the old system. Furthermore,
Government Section felt the the emergeney provisions were strong enough to
block tne tvreats bo the nataenel secueity.
C. Probleen In the Present Police Gystem
Mo. Riese strted Bat Bhe puovinlone in the law pertadning to the
coordin tion o? loeal nd n hionel police cct:vities are not fully adequate.
Hovever, he pointed ut thard, 'n aaetice. the national end local police
cooperr be vrth ench sther. Actually. the Sorce o? tredition is so strong
the me ocl police continue to seelk guidence ond even direction from the
prefectarrel mud netional pollce eadcu rters, dessite their legal independence.
If the Pevce of traditaon is net strong enough to compel acceptance of
limd ted controls exercised by the national volice hendquarters. several
other pressures ere evallable. Fivst. several crticles in the lay can be
interere ted to cive Mhe nationel police : wider ronge o? cuthority, namely:
Article 5, authorfsing the loe I police to request the assistonce of the
netbionel police (orovided the Hationel Tural P lice personnel set under the
operattonel contael of the Tecal Public Sefety Commission): Article 5o.
authorizine the Habaoncl Pural rolice troon or locel police t, conduct
investler tions outs ide thedr Juwisdiction if the ccse originated or
extended into their owm gurisdsetion: pnd Chonter Vir. denling with
onergeney sibual ons. Mr. Pizso scid that the interpretetions of Articles
 pnd s would have to be extromely brond, since the Pelice Law definitely
bars the natione 1 police hecdeuvseters Prom operetienel contrel over either
She Jocel polfce es Mbe Hutfonel Rurel Police taoops. except in case of a
netul emeeney.
An taais omel pressure to the ovwer of the purse which the national
covemment possesses over the loccl crens. until sueh time es the locel
crecs become Sinencielly independent. The denirl of Sunde completely or
even the feilure to provide paonuptly all pcnted funde coula force the
Loe l yolice nte lane. The lret peneet te Cop the nr taonel Lovemnment to
Inotitute tmpecclument proceedings cerinet the locnl executives. ineluding
pelice chicfe. if the Ir tter fail to cxecute notionel ordinences and
reculetions.
Mr. Pisze commented brierly en Fie Public Sefety Commtssione and
pelice methode. The loeel Publie Sufety Commiccions are opereting
satisfecterily, end the comruetion thet exists is no more serious then wnder
COIFIDINTIAL
Denertment of Stete Only

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.87)
CONFIDENTIAL
Depertment of State Only
3
the old system. The National Public Sefety Commission is playing a secondary
role, but thet is as intended since Director General Saito is better able to
provide proressional cdvice. Its major purpose ic to represent the public
interest in police matters. As to police methods, a cradual movement away
from their foimer strong- um trctics is prevalent. The police realize that
they tre not permi tied to use the thiid-degree, but neither the police nor
the Judges nd prootaatees can fully majust to the fact that confessions
eve no longer essentiI to convics a criminl. In one instance cited by
Th. Rizzo,  roetaetor w s iven evtdence of the coruption of a government
frici l. The  omater retamed tn cm  rey days later and reported that
t vs im osstble b convict t e aun because the coused steadfastly refused
to confeso io crune.
3. Bobhrle we Peltae Folicy
T. z teet ve se enton t So does not obJect to
mo ser rone mrde b te Jrpenese in  decentrelization of the police
syotom as hong ts Mhey pcered witntn the romewoak of the present lew.
uhe oper tine  poeedht es bs b nave developed to ive the netional police
re ber tuilert tn neeme 1  hice cetivltiee thrm the Law pemmits have
been ceceyted without orojeet n. However, the ceneral trend or Mr. Rizzo's
st tement on the imyortence of tae principle o? pelice decentralization
Indica ted that ay tttem is to recognize the expunded euthority of the
n tional police by revici ms in te text ot the lew would probebly elicit
on nt: vorable re ctim Prom soad, since this would be considered tempering
wath the basle philosopahy o decenbrvelizatien. Mr. Rizzo did not express
o rer  enbae ishingrecedent of peiri ttine the Japenese to circumvent
the ntent of o ley meohe Tnn pevisingy i mwenly. (There is, however, one
element in Gho, M. Riaz ralea, nomely the Public Sarety Division
pesponsible Por Goy bo d y p lice epemotlone, thet night favor outright
reviatone An the hev which Live the natlonel yolice greeter powers.
Eowever, SoAr Pollowed The G verment Geet ion in the original controversy
ml there is mo evtaence thr, he wilm not centinue ts tollow thelr edvice.)
Pb. tezo ste ted tact there wold rob: bly be no opposibion vithin Gho
to the J mese pro orale o sbrengthen the emergeney provisions und to
entboge the  trome1  wwal Police wi tn mn mda ttonel ec,cco men. These
ne sree wotld stvengthen the intern I seeueity ofr Japen end not effect the
core he haw. Me menttmed, ovever, tshone the Publitc Sefete Division
tonde to epin size, sos he prenent pb leusb, qualibobive, rather then
wuent tabive, impe vemente to the peesonnel end egetpment.
4. The Muribime Satety Lew
Ph. Rizze remerked the b he Jmew very lrttle cbout this sitoation,
except thnt the lay is genernlly considered effective since it concentrates
in the hends of one ageney responsibility for a tesk Ponmerly executed by
m Itiple egeneies. The mejor unsolved ques bion is the exact territorial
jurisdiction of the Maritime Safety Boats. As he recalled, the contraversy
CONFIDENTIAL
Depertment of State Only

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Department of State Only
4
revolved about whether the phrase used in the law "the high seas adjacent to
Japan" would be interpreted as the three-mile limit or as one to three hours
steaming time. In a Government Section report which Mr. Rizzo had available,
five basic safeguerds are listed to protect against the use of the coastal
patrol as a military force:
1. Its use as a military organization is specifically
prohibited in the law. There is no authorization to
use arms other than sidearms.
2.
The number of ships is limited to 125 and their total
tonnage to 50,000 tons. Furthermore, except for two
ships listed in the law, the maximum tonnage of any
ship is limited to 1,500 tons.
3. The maximum speed of the ships is 15 knots.
14.
The personnel are under the National Publio Service
Law rather then a special organization, to avoid the
infiltration of ex-regular naval officer and non-
conmissioned personnel.
5.
There is no direct connection with the National Rura1
Police, only a provision for cooperation between the
two organizations. The water police of the National
Rural Police are assigned to the inland waters with
no overlapping of authority.
CONFIDENTIAL
Department of State Only

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.92)
MB
DIVISION GF
DIVISIONTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
INCOMING TELEGRAM
IN
PLAIN
JAN - 0 1949
A
Office or
ction:
FE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Info:
FE
6contro1 1204
SS
DIRECTOR
C
0
3:39 p.m.
EUR
Tad
>MG
OLI
CIA
Jile
FROM
Tokyo
AAN
SY
Secretary of State
DOR
894.10
7, Jareary 5
Let harges thut The Japa ete police are being used
a bas Pee th Pvarmamen or Japan were characterized
51
 ay (We ineeday) as "part ard phrcel of a coordinated
caman by the S viet authee iti s to create mendacious
ore tor the b he it or ' ert in elementa in Japan
u su only purpos in to spreac iscord."
5
4
This rerly to sey et charges was made at a meeting of
6
The Allied  unci r Japan by. J. Sebald, Chairman
P the Councit an
imamber fo: ih United States.
ceand further in ited the mrmbers representing the
So let Union, China, and the Brirish Commonwealths
persona lly to ins ect police installations throughout
Janan to satisty hemselves hat the Japanese police
are organized accoraing to law.
The peorganized Japanese policr came into being on
Harch 7, 1948 and were deser bed by Sebald as having
894
been organized to meet two pe inaiy criteria: (A) the
avoidance of cent ral zed con rc) and (B) the establish-
ment of the prine ple of locel autonomy.
110
"Two separate and distinct t Des of police presently
Form the police srstem at th ci pogal of the Japanese
5
people for protee fon and lai en orcement purposes"
Sebald said. "Th se are the nat onal rural police with
an authorized strength of 30, 000, and a system of local
5
Municipal police having an oiera 1 strength of 95,000
T
力
In discuesing
C
FILED
2
19
PLAIF
50
0
E
0
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
16-52918-1
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.80)
 sne present Jepanete
mld poiased ous shat there
 bbe for wse by a foree

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, January 28, 1949.
Artin Tatin
No. 59
Man 6 31,4
RESTRICTED
Subject:
Monograph Prepared by Japanese Government on the
894.105/1
Police System of Japen.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
1
2
Sir:
2849
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch no. 11
of January 7, 1949, forwarding the record of a discussion in the
Allied Council for Japan concerning the Japanese police system,
and to enclose five conies of a monograph deted June 1948 pre-
pared by the Japanese Foreign Office on this subject.
The enclosed monogreph briefly describes the present police
system of Japen and compares it with the pre-surrender police
organization. The present water police sys tem under the juris-
diction of the Maritime Safety Board is also outlined, and ap-
pendices contein ststistics concerning the police system. It
is believed that the date and observations in this monogreph are
generally accurate.
Two problems briefly discussed in the enclosure seem par-
ticulorly noteworthy, one relating to the optimum size of the
Japanese police forces and the other to the equipment of the po-
lice. It is stated on page 5 thet "...the stren th now pre-
scribed for the Japenese police cannot be made a criterion for
the future police strength of Japan". The argument is developed
that the additional strength contributed formerly by the Japa-
nese military forces and presently by the Occupation forces must
be considered in determining the desirable size of the Japanese
colice forces.
It is indisputable that the present police forces of Japan
areot entirely satisfactory and that in several instances they
have required the assistance of Occupation forces. There would
appear to be: several reasons, however, for this inadequacy: one
MAY 9 1949
X
is that
FILID
DECLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
E0. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
NN D 780069
CMR
By KP/TE NARS Date 8/25/28

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 59,
January 28, 1949.
-2-
legal situation in an Occupied country make Japanese polic. reluctant
of adequate arms greatly reduces the efficiency of the police isun-
deniable.
It appears to this Mission thet, when the present police force
is adequ tely trained and possesses the authorized pistols and ammu-
nition, it will be more feesible to determine the necessity or de-
sirability of further mersures to strengthen the police.
respectfully yours,
1.0.Belace
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Five copies of onograph on
Police Systen of Japan
370.1
HBFinn:gmd
Original and hectogranh to Department
RESTRICTED

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 59
deted Januery 28, 1949 from the United
States Politicel Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Monograph Pre-
pared by Japanese Government on the
RESTRICTED
Police System of Japan".

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
RBA
POLICE SYSTEM
OF
JAPAN
FOREIGN OFFICE
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
JUNE 1948

=== Page 25 === (confidence 1.00)
CONTENTS
Page
I. New Police System..
1
II. Numerical Strength
3
III.
Equipment
5
IV.
Preservatiou of Law and Order at Sea
7
1. Water Police
7
2. Marine Safety System
8
Appendices
11
I. Police Strength in Japan Proper since 1897
13
II.
Comparative List of Present Police Strengths in
Various Countries
15
III.
Present Work Hours of Police Officers
17
IV.
Statistics relating to Numbers of Offenses, Ar-
rests and Persons arrested
19
V.
Principal Instances where Troops were called out
for preserving Peace and Order or for Rescue
Work
21
VI.
Statistics relating to Police Officers killed or in-
jured while performing Official Duties
27
VII.
Statistics relating to Water Police
29
VIII.
Statisties relating to Offenses committed on Water
in 1946
31
IX.
Data relating to the Marine Public Safety Service.
33
X.
Comparative List of Cases filed and of those
prosecuted by Procurators' Offices in 1940, 1942
and 1946
35

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
I. NEW POLICE SYSTEM
In the past, the Japanese police was under a centralized national sys-
tem, with the Home Minister at the top, the prefectural Governor (the
Superintendent-General of Metropolitan Police, in the case of Tokyo) in the
middle, and the Chief of Police Station at the bottom.
This national police system under centralized control had something to
justify itself, when considered from the viewpoint of ensuring the preserva-
tion of peace and order on a national basis. But this system was open to
the charge that it functioned more as a tool of the Government than as a
servant of the people; and that it tended, under the pretext of maintaining
order, to put undue restraints upon the freedoms of thought, speech, assem-
bly, publication and religion.
Under the guidance of the Allied authorities, endeavours were made to
complete the reform of Japan's police system, by eradicating all vestiges of
feudalism and bureaucracy, which culminated in the enactment of the new
police law of Dec. 8, 1947.
The new police system under this law came into being on March 7,
1948, replacing the 75 year old bureaucratic police by a police of the people
for the people.
The salient features of the new system which has been realized through
the said police law and other legislations are shown below.
1) Decentralization of Police System.
The old unitary system has been divided into a national police (National
Rural Police) and a local police (Municipal Police), the latter consisting of
1,610 independent units belonging to local autonomous entities;
National Rural Police
The National Rural Police takes charge of peace preservation in the
rural communities outside cities and towns. The country is divided into six
Police Regions; and each Region has a Regional Police Headquarters which
operates and controls the National Rural Police of the prefectures (Fu or Ken)
within its jurisdiction. It is to be noted that the number of the police
officers for National Rural Police is not to exceed 30,000. Again, the local
C. 1 )

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
state police force formerly under the supervision of the prefectural governor
is now put under the direction of the Director of the Regional Headquar-
ters, who is responsible for the maintenance of law and order in the rural
communities of the prefecture. The elected prefectural governor has theoret-
ically only the authority to appoint the local Safety Commission of his
prefecture. Neither he, nor members of the prefectural assembly will have
voice vis-a-ris the Director of the Regional Police Headquarters. However, it
goes without saying that there is to be maintained close liaison and cooperation
between the National Police Headquarters and the prefectural government.
Municipal Police
Municipal police was set up in cities and in towns and villages with a
population of 5,000 or more, which are specially recognized as being of a
municipal character. There are throughout the country 1,610 such munici-
pal police boards, the Metropolitan Police Board with a force of 27,000
topping the list. Each municipal police board is independent of others, and
all boards rank equal. The Regional Police Headquarters has no authority
over them.
.2) Democratization of Police
In parallel with the above-mentioned Police organization, there has been
set up under the jurisdiction of the Prime Minister, the National Public
Safety Commission consisting of 5 members, to which Messrs. Yonekichi
Kanemasa, Jiro Tsuji, Makoto Ubukata, Saburo Kiyose and Mrs. Tamaki
Uemura, were nominated by the Government, and approved by the Diet on
March 7, 1948. On the other hand under the jurisdiction of the prefectural
governors (To, Do, Fu and Kn), Public Safety Commissions have been
respectively organized and the members appointed, for the control and opera-
tion of the National Rural Police of their respective To, Do, Fu and Kon.
Again in each city, town or village, having a municipal police, there
has been established a Municipal Public Safety Commission, which appointed
under the new legislation the Chief of its Municipal Police.
3) Delimitation of Police Functions
The police functions are limited to control and prevention of crimes
and to traffic control, while various lines of general administration including
Iabor and social insurance affairs have been transferred to other Government
C 2)

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
organs, and the political police known as " Special High Police" have been
put out of existence.
4) Measures for Emergency
In the past 75 years of Japanese police history, there have occurred
situations which police alone could not cope with, and martial law was
declared or troops were called out. The new Police Law provides for the
. declaration of a state of emergency in such cases. This declaration is issued
by the Prime Minister upon the advice of the National Public Safety Com-
mission, to be effective over the whole or a part of the country. Once the
declaration is issued, all the functions of the local Public Safety Commis-
sions are suspended, and all municipal police boards in the affected area
are placed under the direction of the Director-General of the Regional
Headquarters. A declaration of a státe of emergency must be approved by
the Diet within 20 days from the day of its issuance.
II. NUMERICAL STRENGTH
1. The numerical strength of the Japanese police which stood at 93,-
935 at war's end is being increased to 125,000 as approved by the Supreme
Commander. The number of 93,000 odd represents the strength to which
the police force had been reduced during the war, and which was continued
into the postwar period. With this limited police force, Japan has managed
to prevent any disturbance of internal order in the midst of serious social
unrest following the surrender. For this achievement due credit must be
given to the police personnel who have discharged their duties with com-
petence, willingly submitting to long hours and overwork; but the most
potent stabilizing factor has been that the whole country is under Allied
military occupation. Since with the eventual withdrawal of the Allied troops,
the entire responsibility for the preservation of internal peace and order
will rest with the Japanese police, the Government cannot but view with
deep concern the future of the Japan's police force, in regard to both
numerical strength and equipment.
2. The strength of the police in Japan proper from 1897 up to the
present is shown in Appendix I. It may be seen that the police in 1897
numbered 29,976 or one to every 1,441 of the population; and in that year
the strength of the standing Army and Navy in Japan proper was 162,621.
C3)

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
In 1940, the police numbered 85,580 or one to every 847 of the population,
while the number of soldiers and sailors in the regular service in that year
was 1,463,173.
3. How does the numerical strength, as given above, of the Japanese
police compare with that of other countries? The answer, according to the
data on hand, is given in Appendix II. It will be seen that the number
of population taken care of by one policeman in Japan is larger than that
either in the United States or in Britain.
4. Japanese policemen are generally overworked. This fact is clearly,
demonstrated by the number of hours they are compelled to work. (See
Appendix III.) Policemen are supposed to work, like Government officials
in general, for the prescribed number of hours. In the case of police
detectives, however, there can be practically no limit to work hours, nor
can there virtually be any ofl-duty day or holiday. In actual practice,
they have to work over ten hours a day. Officers serving at police-boxes
work on two, three, or four day-shifts, depending on prefectures. For instance,
the work hours for the officer of Metropolitan Police Board averaged 12
hours a day as of the end of 1947. Those under the two-shifts system there
numbered some 14,600. In order to comply with the work hours prescribed
in the newly enacted Labor Standards Law, it is necessary to place them
on a three-shift system (which consists of eight hours on the first day, 17
hours on the second day and an off-duty day on the third day). This
placement will require an additional force of about 7,300 men.
On the other hand, there has been a steady increase in occurrences of
crime. The statistics for the years from 1941 to 1946 show that the num-
ber of reported crimes increased from 922,526 in 1941 to 1,387,080 in 1946;
and increase is noted in the same interval from 771,653 to 803,264 in the
number of arrests made, and from 334,417 to 445,484 in the number of
persons arrested. These figures alone will suffice to indicate how Japanese
police are overworked. (See Appendix IV.)
5. Peace and order in Japan as in any other country was not main-
tained solely by police, but on the occasion of serious disturbance troops
were called out. Actual instances of such cases which occurred in the past
may here be cited.
a. The first instance where, on occasions of natural calamities,
troops were dispatched occurred at the time of the earthquake of the
Gifu region in October, 1891, when 120 soldiers were mobilized. There
C4)

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
have been 17 such cases, counting only major ones. (See Appendix. V.)
b. The principal cases where troops were mobilized for the pur-
pose of quelling and. forestalling social disturbances number 20. The
first instance is the Chichibu Incident of November, 1884, in which an
attempt was made to overthrow the Government of the day. The
eases include also the rice riots which broke out in various parts of
the country in August, 1918. (See Appendix V.)
In considering the necessary strength of Japanese police force in the
future, therefore, the fact should not be lost sight of that Japan of the
future will no longer have the guarantee for internal peace and order for-
merly afforded by the armed services; and that to that extent will be
made heavier the burden of responsibility to be shouldered by the police.
In other words, the strength now preseribed for the Japanese police cannot
be made a criterion for the future police strength of Japan. The criterion
should be sought in the combination of the police strength now required
and of the strength formerly contributed by the arned services or at pres-
ent, by the Occupation Forces, to guarantee internal peace and order. Since
war's end, there have been actually 26 cases where the Occupation Forces
gave their assistance in dealing with mob viólences and disturbances (as of
the end of March, 1948). Again it was' the order of the Supreme Com-
mander which prevented the general strike scheduled for February 1, 1947.
More recently, in the great floods of the Kanto district of last September,
the Occupation Forces played a leading role in giving aid and relief to the
stricken area.
III. EQUIPMENT
As the means of criminal acts has changed with the progress of times,
so must the equipment of police be modernized. This truism applies to all
aspects of the equipment, to the arms, to the means of transportation and
even to the clothing. It needs scarcely be mentioned that the Japanese
police should be armed with, beside pistols, means to cope with riot situation
such as tear-bombs, and equipped with scientific means of communication,
including radio appliances and light-armored cars. Nor is it necessary to
say that the arms to be used by the Japanese police need not be of Japanese
make, but may well be imported from abroad.
The arms formerly carried by the Japanese police consisted mainly of
sabers, or short swords, and pistols, and also of a limited number of fire-
C 5)

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
arms (which were not much better than hunting-guns). As the equipment was
so inefficient, so obsolete and so unscientific, police officers had to suffer the
consequences in dealing with criminals. Cases of deaths and injuries caused
to police officers in the performance of their duties numbered 10 and 326,
respectively, in the year 1938, while the respective figures for the one year
from August, 1945 to July, 1946 were 74 and 1,037. (See Appendix VI)
And, as mentioned in the preceding section, an immediate call had to be
made to the Allied troops for assistance, if there was any serious menace to
peace and order. Fur thermore, the means of transportation at the disposal of
the Japanese police are still extremely inadequate. It is only through the
help of the Allied Headquarters that the Metropolitan Police Board of Tokyo
and the Police Departments of Prefectures now have been provided with a
total of 475 jeeps.
The SCAP memorandum of 16 January 1946 on " Armament of Police
Forees in Japa: " made clear the following: a) The Japanese Government
is authorized to have its police carry pistols; b) The number of pistols
available to the Japanese police shall not exceed the strength of police au-
thorized for Japan; c) All firearms, other than the pistols so authorized,
shall be delivered to the Occupation Forces on or before 1 March 1946; d)
The Japanese Government is authorized to maintain a supply of 100 rounds
of ammunition for cach pistol authorized.
It has to be pointed out that, despite the authorization given under a)
above, the nutaber of pistols now carried by Japanese police officers totals
no more than 24,95: (as of August, 1947) as against the numerical strength
of 125,000 authorized for the Japanese police.
Under the Home Office Ordinance of March 12, 1946 relating to the
Uniforms Regulations, police officers have since carried " bludgeons", instead
of the sabers or short swords they had worn.
In this connection, it may not be out of place here to consider how
many crimes are committed with the use of weapons, as may be seen from
the following:
Weapons used in Crimes
Year
Crimes committed
Of them, those committed
with Weapons
with Pistols
1937
1,779
11
1943
921
5
1946
6,779
1,906
1947 (first six months)
3,955
851
( 6 )
0

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
It should be noted that, since war's end, the number of crimes com
mitted with the use of pistols has grown in a marked degree. Hunting
guns may be cited as another kind of firearms used in crimes since before
the war. There is also observable new trend among criminals in these days
to use machine-guns. Attention must be paid to the likelihood of these
weapons being smuggled from abroad. In addition to this increase in crime
perpetrations with the use of weapons, it may be pointed out that there'
has been a steady increase in crimes in general, before, during and after
the war, as shown in Appendix X.
In view of these circumstances, it will be understood that what is im-
peratively and urgently necessary in connection with the renovation of the
Japanese police system is: (1) Adequate strength and equipment, (2) Adoption
of scientific methods and principles, (3) Progress and adjustment of police
equipment in keeping with the advanee in methods of criminal activities.
IV. PRESERVATION OF LAW AND ORDER AT SEA
1. Water Police
The Water Police (Suijo-keisatsu) was established for the purpose of
maintaining peace and order, and for keeping watch on the water, princi-
pally in ports and on rivers. Thus, with the Imperial Ordinance implement-
ing the Regulations for the Opening of Ports, Water Police Stations were
established in 1898 in most of the open ports. Subsequently, many of the
Water Police .Stations were gradually abolished, for the reason that the seas
came to be adequately patrolled by the navy, rendering it unnecessary for
the Water Police to extend its vigilance beyond ports and rivers; and that,
even in ports and oa rivers, the necessary control could be exercised by the
ordinary land police.
The termination of the war, however, has introduced a complete change
into the situation as is stated in the following chapter and the renovation
and strengthening of the Water Police have become a pressing need of the
moment.
The statistics relating to the Water Police, as of the end of February,
1947, shows 14 Water Police Stations, 58 Water Police Boxes, 207 boats
assigned to the service, and 1,386 police officers. (See Appendix VII.) At the
same time, there were 404 Police Stations which, though not calied " Water
(7)

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
Police Stations", included coastal waters in their jurisdiction. Among them
there were sub-offices which were known as " Water Police Boxes", to which
officers trained in the water police operation were assigned.*
2. Marine Safety System
The seas along the 4,300 mile coast line of Japan are hazzardous waters
owing to the peculiar meteorological and oceanogpaphical conditions. More-
over, with the disappearance of the navy there exists practically no authority
for the maintenance of law and order in these waters. The cases of smuggl-
ing, illegal entry, piracy, and all kinds of economic offences are on the increase
with a tendeney toward worsening in character. (See Annex VIII.) Control
was exercised only by Government organs such as the Custom Offices, Police
Stations, the Marine Transportation Bureau, the Quarantine Office, and the 
Aquatic Products Bureau independently with their ill-equipped boats.
It was necessary to provide more ships, better communication appliances
and other equipment in order to eliminate such dangers and risks from
Japancse waters. But it would be both uneconomical and irrational to let
the various Government organs to own and operate such costly equipment
and installations. It was considered best to have one administrative organ
assume a unitary control and operațion of the ships and equipment required
for the safety of navigation and the maintenance of public peace on sea,
while maintaining liaison and collaboration with such other authorities as
the police, customs houses, quarantine stations, etc. on the basis of mutual
aid and assistance and with due regard to one another's special functions.
With the advice and guidance of the SCAP the Government drew up
the Marine Safety Authorities Law, which was passed by the 2nd Diet on
April 15, 1948, and which came into effect as from May 1.
The Marine Safety Board set up under the above-mentioned law is an
extra-ministerial organ of the Transportation Ministry. It is a large organ-
ization, combining in itself the funetions formerly under the jurisdiction of
the General Maritime Bureau, Maritime Transportation Bureau, Ship Bureau,
Marine Casualties Inquiry Commission, Light House Bureau, and Hydro-
graphical Bureau and other administrative authorities. It possesses also
wide powers, relating to enforcement at sea of the laws relating to the
* The question of jurisdictional adjustment of the water police following the inangura-
tion of the new police system and the establishment of the Marine Safety Board is being
studied by the Government organs concerned.
C 8）

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
safety of ships, qualifications and numbers of shipping personnel, rescué
work at sea, marine disaster investigation, pilots and prevention and sup-
pression of crimes, search for and arrest of criminals at sea, affairs relating
to hydrographical service, beacons, and all other affairs relating to safety
at sea.
As for local organs, the country is divided into 9 Regions, each with
a Marine Safety Headquarters. Some 50 Marine Safety Stations, Com-
munications Depots, and Port Captain's Offices have been established as
subordinate organs. Moreover, in order to facilitate the smooth and satis-
factory functioning of the system, the Central and Regional Marine Safety
Commissions have been set up.
By taking into consideration the special circumstances of Japan, demili-
tarized and under military occupation, the Marine Safety Authorities Law
contains specific pertinent provisions; for instance, the number of entire
personnel in the service is not to exceed 10,000. The ships are limited to
125 in number and to 50,000 gross tons in total tonnage, while each ship
is not to exceed 1,500 displacement tons in size, and 15 knots in speed.
Of the service personnel, the Marine Safety officers may carry arms but
not beyond what the- ordinary police are permitted to carry—such as pistols.
In this regard, however, it is believed desirable and necessary that the coast
guard craft assigned to the duties of patrol and vigilance over the wide
waters are permitted to have small calibre cannons and machine-guns. (See
Appendix IX.)
Finally, it is clearly stipulated that no provision of the law shall be
interpreted as recognizing the Marine Safety Board and its personnel to be
organized or trained as an armed force, or to perform the functions there-
of.
C9)

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 38 === (confidence 1.00)
APPENDIX I.
1.
Police Strength in Japan Proper since 1897
(By the Police Bureau, Home Ministry, August 30, 1947)
Number of
Population
Navy (in
Police Officers
for Each
Military
Year
Population
Army
Active
(Prescribed
Police
Police
Service)
Full Number)
Officer
1897  43,228,863
29,976
1,441
143,000
19,621
5,070
Not
1902
46,022,476
34,663
1,320
available
33,622
1,690
1907
48,260,300
33,670
1,433
216,000
47,243
2,094-
1912
51,643,000
36,835
1,402
216,000
54,662
10,673
1916
54,681,700
40,418
1,352
216,000
63,225
6,573
1921
58,673,848
51,432
1,141
216,000
81,386
3,399
1926
59,966,900
59,735
1,003
179,000
76,331
2,837
1930
63,872,496
63,267
1,009
179,000
79,935
3,053
1935
68,668,654
66,578
1,030
229,000
94,661
2,843
1937
70,654,100
72,191
978
229,000
106,757
2,400
1 (June)
Not
1940
72,539,729
85,580
847
1,240,000
223,173
available
(January)
(September)
4,100,0001,693,223
8,479
1945
71,996,477
93,935
756
(August)
6,400,000
1946
73,114,136
93,935
778
None
None
None
Note:
The above list gives figures of the end of each five year interval, except for the
periods from 1912 to 1916 and from 1926 to 1930, for which the interval, for the
sake of convenience in investigation, has been set at four years.
Population is taken from the " Teikoku Tokei Nenkan" (Imperial Statistics
Year Book) compiled by The Cabinet Statistics Bureau.
The number of police officers and the population for each police officer are taken
from the "Keisatsu Tokei" (Police Statistics) compiled by the Police Bureau of the
Home Ministry.
The Army strength is taken from the "List of Standing Army Strength (Ex-
cluding that in Korea, Formosa and Saghalien)" and the " Outline of Army Strength",
prepared by the First Demobilization Bureau on August 29, 1947. The statistics
indicate standing Army strength for the years up to 1937, and total strength for
the years since 1940.
The authority for the Navy strength is the "Imperial Statistics Year Book"
and the results of the investigation made by the Second Demobilization Bureau.
The authority for the strength of the Military Police is, up to 1935, the "Im-
perial Statistics Year Book", and, since 1937, the results of the investigation made
by the First Demobilization Bureau.
C 13 )

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 40 === (confidence 1.00)
APPENDIX II.
Comparative List of Present Police Strengths in Various Countries
Number of Population
Country
Population
Police
for Each
Remarks
Officers
Police Officer
Japan
73,114,136
93,935
778
The population given is that
ascertained by the National
Census of 1946, and the
number of Police Officers is
the prescribed full number
for that year.
Britain
45,183,000
70,460
641
The authority is the " Whi-
taker's Almanac for 1947".
The population is that esti-
mated for 1945. The num-
ber of police officers given
is the prescribed full nüm-
ber for 1946 in regard to
England and Wales, and for
1945 in respect of Scotland
and Ireland.
United
131,669,275
176,988
743
The authority for the popula-
States
tion is "The World Almanac,
1946," where the figures
of the 1940 national census
are given. The number of
police officers is taken from
the 1940 national census of
the United States (See "Law
Enforcement", P. 16.)
Urban units,
70,000,000
120,000
583
The figures are taken from
each with a
(Approxi-
(Approxi-
"Police System in the U. S.,
population of
mate)
mate)
1940" by Bruce Smith.
2,500 or over, in
the United States
South
19,000,000
38,000
500
Taken from a Seoul dis-
Korea
(Approximate)
patch of July 29, 1947, from
U. P. Vice-President E. J.
Johnson, published in the
Mainichi Shimbun of July
31, 1947. It reported that
South Korea had a Korean
constabulary of 10,000 men,
and 28,000 police officers.
Italy
45,801,000
65,000
704
The population is taken
from "The World Almanac,
1946", and the number of
Carabinieri from the Peace
Treaty with Italy of 1947.
( 15 )

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
4
APPENDIX III.
Present Work Hours of Police Officers
(As of the end of October, 1947)
1. At present, principal police officers of the rank of Assistant
Police-Inspector or over, as a rule, work in accordance with the number of
hours prescribed for Government offices generally. In addition to these
hours, however, Police-Inspectors and Assistant Police-Inspectors assume a
night-duty under a rotation system.
2. (1) Of Chief Patrolmen and Patrolmen, those assigned to indoor
duty or to traffic-control duty, as a rule, work for the number of hours
prescribed for Government offices generally. In addition, they assume a
night-duty under a rotation system.
(2) As a rule, a police-detective works for the number of hours pre-
scribed for Government offices generally. If any criminal case occurs, how-
ever, he has to work day or night, until it is settled so far as he is con-
cerned. Therefore, it is very seldom that a police-detective can go home
at the prescribed office-closing time. Even on a holiday or on an off day,
a detective has to attend to his duty; if any case occurs. The number of
hours a detective has to work depends upon the circumstances of such cases,
but on an average he works at least for 10 hours a day.
(3) Of policemen on outside duty, those serving at Police Sub-Stations
(Chuzai Sho), as a rule, work for 8 hours. But those serving at Police-
Boxes (Hashutsu Sho) work in two, three or four day shifts, depending on
the Prefecture concerned.
a. The "two-shifts service system" means to serve for 24 hours every
other day (that is to serve for 12 hours a day onvan average). Policemen
under this service now number above 14,500. In order to revise the work
hours for these policemen, in accordance with the Labor Standards Law, it
is necessary to change the two-shifs system into one of three-shifts consist-
ing of 8 hours, 17 hours and an off-duty day, as mentioned below. This
change requires an additional personnel of about 7,300 men.
b. Of the "three-shifts service system," there are'two kinds: the one
consists of a day of 8 hours, a day of 24 hours and an off-duty day; the
( 17 )

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
other, a day of 8 hours, a day of 17 hours and an off-duty day. Policemen
under the former system number about 900, and those under the latter
system about 2,500. Under the latter system, the service is roughly on an
eight-hour day basis, but this is exceeded under the former system., In
order to bring the former system into line with the Labor Standards Law,
it is necessary to change it into the latter system.
c. The " four-shifts service system" consists of two consecutive days
of 8 hours each, a day of 17 hours and an off-duty day. On the two days
of 8 hours each, the service is in the daytime, but one of the two days is
given over to " waiting for work" (taiki) or to instructions and training.
On the day of 17 hours, the service is at night and early in the morning,
as is the case on a similar day under the three-shifts system.
Policemen under this system of service number about 6,500.
C 18)

=== Page 44 === (confidence 1.00)
APPENDIX IV.
Statistics relating to Numbers of Offenses, Arrests
and Persons Arrested
Year
Number of
Number of
Number of Persons
Offenses
Arrests
Arrested
1941
922,526
771,653
334,417
1942
390,331
691,314
299,395
1943
979,336
788,069
346,709
1944
905,836
709,596
510,951
1945
711,596
472,853
242,645
1946
1,387,080
803,264
445,484
( 19 )

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX V.
Principal Instances where Troops were called out for preserving
4
Peace and Order or for Rescue Work
A. At times of natural disasters
1. No-bi Earthquake, in Gifu and Aichi Prefectures, October 28, 1891,
6.30 a.m.
The earthquake caused throughout the plains of Gifu and Aichi Pre-
fectures, with Neo-mura, Motosu-gun, Gifu Prefecture, as the epicentre.
To assist in the rescue work and for the restoration of order, 120 troops
were called out.
2. Sakurajima eruption, in Kagoshima Prefecture, January 12, 1914,
10.05 a.m.
In consequence of the eruption of the island, earthquakes, fires and
floods occurred, and great conflagrations broke out in Kagoshima City and
several villages. 3,395 troops were called out for rescue work.
3. Floods in Kurume City, Fukuoka Prefecture, June 17, 1921.
Owing to heavy rains, the Chikugo River overflowed its banks, and
the embankments collapsed, causing inundations throughout the city.
Troops were called out to the number of 3,170.
4. Floods around Sai and Asano Rivers, Ishikawa Prefecture, August
3, 1921.
Heavy rains caused floods due to the overflowing of the Sai and Asano
Rivers, with bridges washed away, embankments destroyed, etc.
300 troops were called out.
5. Great Earthquake of Kanto Region, September 1, 1923, 11.58 a.m.
Violent tremors visited the seven Prefectures of Tokyo, Kanagawa,
Chiba, Saitama, Shizuoka, Yamanashi and Ibaragi, causing damage of un-
paralleled proportions. In the Tokyo area, the quakes were followed by
conflagrations, which broke out at over 30 spots. Many parts of the Cap-
ital were reduced to ashes, and serious disorders were caused. In order to
restore order, the Capital was placed under administrative martial law, and
the following troops were called out.
(21）

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
Prefectural
Number of. Troops
Number of Police Officers sent by
Jurisdiction
called out
Other Prefectures for Assistance
Tokyo
Number of Troops
53,065
(Metropolitan
unavailable; martial
(From All Prefectures)
Police Board)
law enforced
Kanagawa
206,700
31,640
(Including Military
(From Gumma, Aichi and Shiga)
Police)
Chiba
4,610
(Composed of Infantry
and Military Police)
Saitama
7,989
Shizuoka
6,820
Total
226,119
84,705
6. Great Earthquake in Oku-Tango Districts, Kyoto Prefecture, March
7, 1927, 6.27 p.m.
The earthquake occurred, with the Japan Sea bottom off Tango Pro-
montory as the epicentre, causing extensive damage and disorder in seven
towns, including Miyazu-machi, and 51 villages. To restore order and to
preserve public peace, Army and Navy units were called out to the strength
of about 46,300; 272 police officers also came for assistance from Hyogo
Prefecture.
7. Storms and floods in Okayama Prefecture, September 20, 1934.
Owing to heavy storms, many rivers in the Prefecture overflowed their
banks, much damage being caused. Troops, 400 in number, were called out.
8. Storms and floods, Osaka Prefecture, September 21, 1934.
A typhoon moving from south-east of Shikoku brought on tidal waves,
about 10 feet high, along the shores of Osaka Bay, working havoc through-
out West Osaka and parts of Sakai City. 5,S59 troops were called out for
rescue work and for the restoration of order.
9. Rain damage in Kobe City, and between Osaka and Kobe and be-
tween Akashi and Himeji, Hyogo Prefecture, July 5, 1938.
Long-continued rains caused the overflowing of rivers and landslides,
suspension of traffic, and washing away or destruction of dwelling houses,
attended with many casualties.
The troops called out number 500. In addition, 1,440 police officers
came from Osaka for assistance.
( 22 )

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
10. Storms and floods in Kimotsuki-gun district, Kagoshima Prefecture,
October 13, 1938.
Storms caused the Kimotsuki River and other rivers to overflow their
banks, leading to serious floods and extensive damage throughout Kimotsuki-
gun district. Troops were called out to the number of 1,554.
11. Abukuma River floods, Miyagi Prefecture, July 21, 1941.
Continued rains caused the embankments on the northern side of the
Abukuma River to collapse, inundating Iwanuma-machi and four villages.
50 troops were called out for rescue work and for the restoration of order.
12. Storms and floods in the western part of Omuda City, Fukuoka
Prefecture, August 27, 1942.
Storms, coinciding with the flood-tide, caused the rivers to rise. In
Ariake Inlet, Breakwater No. 1, and then the Inner Breakwater, were
broken through, with the result that the streets of Omuda City were in-
undated. Troops were called out to the number of 3,050.
13. Earthquake in Tottori City, Tottori Brefecture, September 10, 1943.
A severe carthquake caused disasters throughout Tottori City and
neighborhood. Troops were called out to the number of 2,290, and 577
police officers came for assistance from the Police Departments of Okayama,
Hyogo, Hiroshima and Shimane Prefectures.
14. Storms and floods throughout Shimane Prefecture, September 20,
1943.
Storms led to the overflowing of many rivers in Shimo-Iwami district
and to landslides and cave-ins at many places. Troops were called out to
the number of 300, and 11 police officers despatched from the Police De-
partment of Yamaguchi Prefecture for assistance.
15. Floods in Tsurusaki-machi and neighborhood, Oita Prefecture,
September 21, 1943.
Storms caused the Ono River to overflow its banks, bringing about
damage in the neighboring six towns and villages, with Tsurusaki-machi as
the center. There were called out 300 troops for rescue work.
16. Great earthquake in West Enshu district, Shizuoka Prefecture,
December 7, 1944, 11.30 a.m.
The great earthquake occurred in West Enshu district on the Oi River,
and 14,856 troops were called out.
17. Earthquake disasters in Hazu-gun, Hekikai-gun, Chita-gun, and the
southern part of Nagoya City, all in Aichi Prefecture, January 13, 1945, 2a.m.
( 23 )

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
Owing to severe tremors, disasters were caused throughout the above-
mentioned areas, and 10,000 troops were called out.
B. At times of rioting and disorders
1. "Chichibu Incident", in Saitama and Nagano Prefectures, Novem-
ber 2, 1884.
This incident broke out in Chichibu-gun, Saitama Prefecture. The
rioters, enraged at what they regarded as the tyranny of the so-called
"Clan" Government of the day, called for its overthrow. Frustrated in.
Chichibu, they fled to Gumma and Nagano Prefectures, where they attempt-
ed to commit further lawless acts. They were quelled by the troops called
out in Nagano and Saitama Prefectures to the number of 3,342.
2. " Otsu Affair", in Shiga Prefecture, May 11, 1891.
This is the case where, on the occasion of a visit to this country of
the then Crowa Prince of Russia, one of the Japanese policemen assigred
to guard duty on the road drew his saber and struck the Prince on the
head, causing him an injury. 200 infantrymen were called out to preserve
order.
3. " Hibiya Fire Attack", in Tokyo, Septemher 5, 1905.
A large crowd, numbering 40,000 or 50,000, who were dissatisfed with
the terms of the Russo-Japanese Peace Treaty, attempted to hold a mass
meeting at Hibiya, but the meeting was forbidden. Another meeting at
the Shintomi Theater was also bauned. The enraged crowds collided with
police. They set afire the official residence of the Home Minister. This
led, in various parts of the city, to attack on police stations and police-
boxes, which were set on fire. The situation was brought under control by
the partial enforcement of martial law and the issuance of a Proclamation
by the Commander of the Tokyo Garrison.
Units of the Tokyo Garrison and the Military Police were called out,
but their number is unavailable.
4. “Disturbance of 1913", Tokyo, February 10, 1913.
In December, 1912, Prime Minister Saionji tendered his resignation.
The Elder Statesmen held a conference in the presence of the Emperor to
discuss who should be selected to form a new Cabinet. No decision could
be reached as to the selection of the next Prime Minister, and the Diet was
twice prorogued on that account. On the third prorogation of the Diet, the
crowds set fire to the offices of the Miyako Shimbun, and collided with police.
C 24)

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
Then they set afire police stations and police-boxes, and attacked the office
of the Niroku Shimbun and other places.
à
Infantry units of the Tokyo Garrison and the Military Police were
called out, but their number is unavailable.
5. "Rice riots of August, 1918".
The boom following the World War I raised commodity prices. Especial-
ly the price of rice which through the speculations of unscrupulous mer-
chants shot up so high that riots broke out in various parts of the country.
Troops totalling 26,032 were called out in the Prefectures of Tokyo,
Osaka, Hyogo, Niigata, Mie, Aichi, Yamanashi, Miyagi, Fukushima, Fukui,
Shimane, Okayama, Hiroshima, Yamaguchi and Fukuoka.
6. Anti-Korean Outbreaks, September, 1923.
On the occasion of the Great Earthquake of September 1, 1923, extreme
unrest was created in Tokyo. Rumors were circulated in various parts of
the devastated areas to the effect that Koreans were rising against Japanese,
perpetrating incendiarism, throwing poisons into wells, ete. The fear and
hatred thus enge dered against Koreans led to acts of violence by Japanese
against Koreans mostly in the Kanto region.
The troops called out in Saitama, Gumma and Chiba Prefectures num-
bered 9,463.
7. Sai River Affair, in Gifu Prefecture, January 7 and 8, 1929.
In order to, prevent the overflowing of the Sai River, the prefectural
authorities diverted the river water to Anbachi County against a violent
opposition of Namori-mura and six other towns and villages, of which all
the town officials resigaed in protest. This led to a riotous demonstration
by the townspeople and villagers, which were quieted by calling out troops
—400 on January 7, and 200 on January 8.
8. There are cases where, in labor disputes,' such lawless acts as the
destruction of houses and incendiarism were committed, and where troops
were called out to preserve peace and order, as shown by the following
list:
( 25 )
1

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
Mines or
Date of
Number of Troops
Number of Police Off
Region
Prefecture
Shipyards
Occurrence
called out
from Elsewhere
Hokkaido
Hokkaido
Sumitomo Mining
Sept. 10, 1945
30
Utashinai Mining
,”
”
”
Tohoku
Iwate
Kamaishi Mining
Nov. 10, 1919
300
Tochigi
Ashio Mining
Feb. 4, 1907
300
Kanto
Nov. 26, 1919
10
150 from Gumma Police Dept.
,”
Chiba
Noda Soy Co.
Sept. 16, 1927
1,000
Kinki
Hyogo
Kawasaki-Mitsubish
July. 6, 1921
160
Shipyard
Fukuoka
Yawata Ironworks
Feb. 5, 1920
200
Mitsui-Miike Mining
Aug. 2, 1918
2,000
”
Saga
Aichi Colliery
Aug. 25, 1918
180
Kyushu
Kitakata Colliery
Aug. 29, 1918
150
”
Kaijima Colliery
Aug. 29, 1918
300
”
Kumamoto
Manda Colliery
Sept. 4, 1918
100
Total
13
4,760
150
Note: From the above list are excluded cases where disturbances were caused by troops themselves, such as the so-called " May 15 Incident"
of 1932, and the so-called “February 26 Incident" of 1936.
APPENDIX VI.
Statistics relating to Police Officers killed or injured while
performing Official Duties
Year
Number killed
Number injured
1938
10
326
1939
6
239
1940
6
244
1941
2
213
One year preceding war's end,
August, 1944-August, 1945
549(504)
1,373(928)
August, 1945-July, 1946
74
1,037
Note: The figures in parentheses indicate the numhers of the killed and wounded in air-
raids, included in the preceding numbers.
( 27 )

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.63)
200

=== Page 54 === (confidence 1.00)
APPENDIX VII.
Statistics relating to Water Police
(Prepared by Police Bureau, Home Ministry, as of the end
of February, 1947)
Water
Water
Water
Units
Number
Prefectures
Police
Police
assigned
of
Police
Seamen
Officers
Stations
Boxes
to Police
Boats
Stations
Tokyo
1
(8) 12
396
12
Hokkaido
1
2
5
(3) 8
28
31
Kyoto
3
3
Osaka
3
7
224
65
Kanagawa
2
(2)
3
13
Hyogo
1
3
(4) 7
17
14
Nagasaki
1
5
(1) 9
50
22
Niigata
1
1
3
3
Chiba
2
2
5
1
Ibaragi
Mie
1
6
(4) 7
1
4
Aichi
7
2
(9) 15
29
15
Shizuoka
1
1
5
Aomori
1
1
1
7
31
5
Fukui
5
(5)
8
Ishikawa
1
1
2
2
6
Toyama
1
4
6
17
24
Tottori
2
2
8
2
Shimane
1
7
12
unavailable
32
Okayama
7
13
8
17
Hiroshima
1
9
1
(9) 24
76
Yamaguchi
1
2
3
(1) 11
34
60
Wakayama
4
(Dept.1)1
5
15
14
Tokushima
6
4
6
Kagawa
(Dept.1)4
4
11
4
Ehime
4
4
20
Kochi
2
2
4
6
Fukuoka
2
1
(2)
9
330
44
Oita
1
5
7
39
19
Saga
4
7
15
18
Kumamoto
1
1
1
2
Miyazaki
1
1
3
1
Kagoshima
2
(Dept.1)2
3
28
19
Total
14
58
64
207
1,386
473
Note:
In the above list, the "Dept.", with a figare, enclosed in brackets, indicates the
number of the Water Units under the direct jurisdiction of the Prefectural Police
Department concerned, while the figures in brackets show the number of boats
under repairs.
( 29 )

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 56 === (confidence 1.00)
APPENDIX
VIII.
Statistics relating to Offenses committed on Water in 1946
(Prepared by Police Bureau, Home Ministry)
Violations of
Economic
Clandestine entry
Smuggling of
Criminal Law
Offenses
of Persons
Goods
Prefectures
Remarks
Number
Number
Number
Number
Number
Number
Detected
Detected
of Cases
of Arrests of Cases
of Arrests of Cases
of Arrests by Police by Customs
Tokyo
104
50
128
128
Hokkaido
905
762
404
404
2
2
Kyoto
23
18
17
17
52
52
Osaka
796
635
191
191
4
4
22
10
Cases under jurisdic-
tion of Occupation
Courts, 782; goods
smuggling 1
Kanagawa
1,136
1,091
282
215
3
3
4
Hyogo
135
98
575
234
4
4
16
Nagasaki
134
107
1,695
1,389
28
Niigata
204
184
136
135
Chiba
15
3
5
13
Mie
10
Aichi
273
249
4
4
1
1
2
6
Shizuoka
44
28
6
6
18
18
1
Iwate
8
2
4
4
1
1
Aomori
186
174
79
79
Yamagata
30
30
Akita
43
43
53
53
Toyama
18
18
12
12
Shimane
1,708
1,669
Okayama
Hiroshima
208
154
39
38
104
104
11
Yamaguchi
529
211
40
40
10,470
8,493
17
2
Wakayama
20
20
6
6
4
4
3
Tokushima
31
26
12
12
27
27
1
Kagawa
77
54
46
46
Ehime
74
39
208
178
4
4
2
Kochi
52
52
22
22
5
5
5
Fukuoka
661
1,007
478
478
554
554
118
11
Oita
41
40
19
19
41
32
2
Saga
52
42
5
5
3,295
2,582
15
Kumamoto
66
66
93
93
87
87
5
4
Miyazaki
4
4
335
332
14
Kagoshima
14
14
66
66
40
98
65
Total
5,849
5,187
2,964
2,542
18,454
15,465
327
37
( 31 )

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX IX.
Data relating to the Marine Public Safety Service
1. The requirements, in ships and personnel, for carrying on the
Marine Public Safety Service are as follows:
a. Ships of the Marine Public Safety Board (excluding intra-
harbor boats).
Number of ships:
125
Total tonnage:
50,000 (displacement tons)
Tonnage per ship :
1,500(
,)
(The Nissho Maru XVIII, 2,005 gross tons, now employed
as a supply ship for lighthouses, and the hydrographical
survey ship Soya, 2,224 gross tons, are excluded.)
Speed :
15 Knots
b. Personnel of the Marine Public Safety Board: 10,000 persons.
2. The coastlines of Japan amount to 4,300 miles (excluding small
islands), If the waters along these coast-lines are to be guarded by 125
guard-boats in two shifts, the area assigned to one guard-boat work out at
70 miles in coastline.
This area is the maximum over which a guard-boat, with a speed of
10 knots, can barely make one round and a half trip in a day. When
allowance is made for repairs needed for guard-boats and for possible cases
of emergency, such as disasters and the consequent rescue work at sea, it
is desirable that about 20 per cent of the 125 guard-boats should be able
to develop a maximum speed of 20 knots. (See the accompanying Table 1
and Table 2 giving statistics of disasters at sea.)
3. For the performance of guard duties over extensive seas, speedy
means of communication relating to public safety at sea, including airplanes,
are indispensable. As a matter of fact, Allied planes have given vitally
needed assistance frequently since the occupation.
C 33 )

=== Page 59 === (confidence 1.00)
.
Table
1.
Numbers of Marine
Disasters at Sea
(For the Years. 1933-1940)
Steamers
Sailing
Ships
Total
Year
Total
Serious
Total
Serious
Total
Serious
Loss
Damage
Loss
Damage
Loss
Damage
1933
20
194
127
171
149
365
1934
19
178
108
154
127
332
1935
20
200
73
184
93
384
1936
26
160
93
200
119
360
1937
26
131
102
233
128
264
1938
33
159
101
218
134
377
1939
33
117
116
193
148
310
1940
21
124
108
232
129
356
Yearly
average
24
157
103
198
128
343
Table
2.
Numbers of Casualties in Marine
Disasters
(For the Years 1933-1940)
Those Killed
Those Missing
Damage
Sustained
Year
Steam-
Sailing
Total
Steam-
Sailing
Total
Steam-
Sailing
Total
ers
Ships
ers
Ships
ers
Ships
1933
159
35
194
69
177
246
14
10
24
1934
26
37
63
64
38
102
15
3
18
1935
116
13
129
78
34
112
52
4
56
1936
36
24
60
84
104
188
10
18
28
1937
122
18
140
117
91
208
54
5
59
1938
58
37
95
34
67
101
86
8
94
1939
41
24
65
434
70
504
28
7
35
1940
18
26
44
9
60
69
10
15
25
Yearly
average
72
26
98
111
80
191
33
8
42
C
34
）

=== Page 60 === (confidence 1.00)
一
APPENDIX
X.
Comparative List of Cases filed and of those prosecuted
by Procurators' Office in 1940, 1942 and 1946
(Prepared by Criminal Bureau, Justice Ministry)
Description
1940
1942
1946
of
Offenses
Filed
Prosecuted
Filed
Prosecuted
Filed
Prosecuted
Arson
810
339
1,267
397
408
216
Currency
Counterfeiting
9
2
6
1
552
193
Gambling
95,496
67,754
79,280
59,819
58,580
42,937
Bribery
3,024
1,224
4,274
1,499
2,478
812
Homicide
1,494
726
1,284
556
2,230
1,178
Abortion
609
163
382
80
178
27
Abandonment
209
16
153
117
241
51
Theft
105,846
18,671
97,053
18,018
252,728
75,337
Robbery
838
456
621
355
12,276
6,612
Fraud
45,700
4,377
28,920
3,789
23,392
8,080
Blackmail
3,542
624
2,870
469
7,033
2,285
Misappropria-
tion
24,416
2,012
17,677
1,893
14,284
2,709
Violations
of economic
regulations
127,761
51,317
142,152
63,362
211,613
87,485
Other.
Offenses
165,951
46,324
132,524
37,618
103,263
29,432
Total
575,705
194,005
508,463
187,973
689,256
257,354
35

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
N
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
MWB
DATE: February 14, 1949
FROM : MG NUG
HAM
N
suBJEct: Tokyo'ε 59 of January 28, 1949
BAF
Suggest reading this brief despatch in toto.
The last parapraph appears to be an oblique rebuttal of
the position which has been taken in NSC 13/2 recommending
T
The trouble with the suggeetion advanced by Sebald
that even if the police are properly armed and trained,
long as the occupation ie there, it will never be known
whether or not the police force is sdequate. Referring to
the preceding paragraph, it would seem to me that the presence
of the occupation to back up the police is giving us a false
bense that the police is adequete. Obviously the large well-
organized gangs of extremists (mostly right-wing) already in
existence are not going to contest the law openly as long as
the occupation is there.
I am perturbed that Sebald seems to take a contrary view.
The matter might be thrashed out by a letter from you to Sebald
inquiring whether his laet paragraph is a criticism of the
NSC paper and if so what his objections are to the police
recommendation of NSC 13/2.
105/2-1449
Lettar to
Sehald of
CS/Y
3/3//49
filed in
894.185
(para 7.)
2

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.94)
TOP SECRET
3/21/49
Dear .Bill:
894.105/3-3149
Referanco 1s made to your deapatoh No. 59 of January 28, 1969,
forwarding a monograph praparod by the Japanese Goversmant on the
police system of Japan. I rafer in partioular to the soneluding
sentence of the deapatch:  "It appeare to this Mission thab, shen
the present police force is adequately trained and possessss the
authorised pistols and ammmition, it will be more fessiale to de-
tormine the nevessity or desirability of further messures to
strengthen the police."
It is the view here in the Department that improvement in the
equipment and training standarde of ths police is esssntial but we
regard it as equally importent that without comproaising the original
tenete of the police reforms there be established now an agemay for
internal security (presumably in the Attorney General's Grfies) which
would perform primarily investigative and surveillance funetions now
inadequately provided for by an over-decentralised police ayatem,
Also of comparable importance, in our opinion, is the ereation of
improved machinery for coordinating the activities of all polies
units, both local and national, at all times.
We believe that these steps should be taken now in order that
necessary measures may be taken for as long a pariod as poeaible
under the moderating influence of the eceupation. Furtharmore, it
will never be kmown, as long as the oocupation is theve, whethar er
not the present police system is adequste. The mere presenee of the
occupation to back up the police may tend to create a falee imprem-
sion that the police ie adequate. Obviously large wall=orgamised
groups of extramiets are not going to contest the las openly as long
as there is a military occupation. If in the relativaly stable U.s.s
wa heve e eall cut the National Guard on occasione, how mash greatar
is the need in a totally disarmed Japan for e strong plics foree,
Fe Govaamicated
The Honorable
William J. Sebald,
U. S. Politieal Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, Japan.
REV
TOP SECRET

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.94)
TOP SECRET
We comsunicated our vigwe along the foregoing lines to
General KacArthur last Fall but have received no reply, In the
meanwhile, there have been ocecsional press notices origimating
in Tokyo enggesting that struetural chenges in the poliae eyshes
are actually taking place.
I would therefore very much appresiate having eny up-to-date
information on the police situation, in partisular your Offise's
views on the second and third paragraphs of this lekter.
Sinceraly yours,
Max W. Bishop
Chiof
Northeest Asian Affairs
wq
FE:NA:MGreen:br
3-31-49
See AlNachno5: WAR 92 991 07 N01 22, 1948
TOP SECRET

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.95)
uglesLason Takps
Kns. Lebald, Thay,19
United States Politicel Adviser
for Japan
I have had
Tobyo, April 30, 1949.
2copis made
SECHET
JAPAHESE POLICE FORCE
1. Two steps ere being taken to alter Jepan's existing police
s ys tem:
. Fourteen thousand pistols with 400 rounds of ammunition
894.105/4-3049
per pistol have been trpught from the United Stetes for distribution
to Japan's police. Holsters for these pistols are nov being made in
Japen and the pistols will shortly be distributed. Fourteen thousand
pistols, presumsbl. the most ineffectual, vill be taken up from the
Jepanese police when the United Stetes pistols are distributed. More
pistols from the United States are expected later.
EaN
b. G2 PSD, which hendles police metters, is preparing a
b:li to be sumitted to the Japanese Diet which would permit referen-
dums by small-town units -- mura end machi -- to decide whether these
units wish to retein their locol autonomous police units or to come
under the Natiqnal Rural Police. The authorized limit of 30.O00 NRP
will be increased and the limit of 95,0o0 local police correspondingly
reduced by such as choose NiP affilistion. The primary reason for this
change is to relieve small towns of the financial burden of maintaining
their own police.
2. G-2 PSD states there is no plan for netional police emergency
or reserve units, or for renter centralization on a national level.
They know nothing of plans for a national investigetive organization
comparable to the FBI.
3. G-2 PSD officials appear enerslly satisfied with the progress
of police roform end feel thet the chan es expected from the referen-
dun procese described in paragraph lb ahove will provide the necessary
degree of centralization now lecking. They feel that the NRP and lo-
cal units are cooperating satisfactorily end are competent to handle
emergency situotions.
4. Consideration of the desirebility of en investigative - sur-
veillance type of orgenization would be a Government Section matter
General WHITNEY's feelin: thet communism hes probably reached its 
high-water mork end can be contained by Occupetion reforms is well
D
known. Although there is some disagreement in Headquarters on thiaT
HH
A
point,
SECRET

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
-2-
point, it ap ears that no steps are now being teken to estsblish an
investigative unit end thet no steps are likely unless the situation
changee.
LC
RBFinn:gnd
SECRET

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.94)
TOP SECRET
ARD FM NO. 64
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE: May 3, 1949
RM/R 894.105/5-349
Mr. Allison
Files
Central
FROM :
NA - ir. Bond
W2
SUBJECT:
Japanese rolice System.
On the basis of his periodic reports on the implementation of
Nsc 13/2, SCAP has ziven us no indication that he has done anything to
strengthen the Japanese police system other than to obtain additional
police small arms from U.3. surplus supplies. There has been no recog-
nition in these periodic reports of the specific recomnendations set
forth in a tate-Army cable of November 22, 1948 (copy attached) tnat
(a) an adequate mobile national police be created, (b) a separate
national police investi ation agency be established, (c) provision be
made for coordinating the activities of all police units at all times.
Il CFE HIs Feriodic Intelli ence surveys, on the other hand, have
included several statements which would suggest that steps are being
taken to improve the mobility and communications equipment of the
police and to establish a certral investigation agency.
meanwhile we have received disturbing press reports that police
budrets have been appreciably cut and that Japanese police authorities'
efforts to strengthen investigative and coordination machinery of police
system have been turned down by CAr.
Since the problem of establishing adequate internal security in
Japan is pressing and is basic to the consideration of the new NSC paper
proposin: the rearming of Japan, it is recommended that the underlying
cable o forward to Ch immediately. The caule would also have the
desired effect of cmphasizing to CAr our continued concern over NSC 13/2.
If you have the time, I suggest readin the attached recent DiF study,
prepareu at our request, on the status of police reorganization in Japan.
Attachments:
BC/R
894.105/
State-Army Cable 11/22/48
71
RF tudy 137
Draft Cable to UINCFE
DEC1 21956
319045
FILED
1
3
1197
人
127
NA:MGreen: br
TOP SECRT

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.84)
TOP RT
DNOP
ACTION
tat
C1
1.0 13/2299120.
Jupanese police io sul:ject.
2. roo e of adequacy of Jepanese polico to uirtuin internel security indopendent of
. mdlitary forces vil sortly be ratsed in tonal ccourity couneil. info
therefore poqueste  uplement oriolte terllgence urveye mich will
in ceneral. thror more liht on Fubilc afety ivietor'e program and timeaohodule for
improving eoui maent, perconmol u orgusizatin o. p cose olice to point where it
will prove ade ate to set apan's internal security neede. in particuler would
appreciate your vie s on effect reoent cut in natio al end consolidated local budgete
vill bave on plans to laprove oqui ment pay cne training of police.
3.
tate rry continte to cogoss it sesenttar tat provision be mede for broadening the
powore and reaponslallities for mational  ollce in crder thar there will be
standardised olice onforcenant of natioa iowe s coordination of activities of
all police units at ell timeo. aek of sue provi lon invitos Jeeideu hazards such
s (a ack ofproper coordinatlon  cctivitlos, (o) exposure of
Lccal olice to corru t ion w infiltretion of extremlste elesmnte;
and .c, irmdeguate finascing, poor training and varlable standarde.
The sbove

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
TOF SECRET
2
The above-recomended degree of centralization also appears warranted in view
of Japan's small geographic area and in view of mounting desire of Japanese
public opinion (as expressed in public opinion surveys, editorials and state
ments by responsible officials, both local and national) to correct weakness
of police arising out of decentralization. It would be in keeping with one of
basic purposes of SC 1 /2 that emphasis be iven to Japanese assimilation of
police as of other reforns and that the Japanese authorities be restrained only
if they compromise fundamentals of these reforas as they proceed with process of
implementation and adjustment.
L.
e believe that one of soundest guarant es for continued Japanese observance
of fundamental tenets of jolice reforms lies in education of police in demoeratie
methods and in extension and safeguardin of civil liberties. It is felt that,
under your guidance, our imediate task is to work toward a solution which will
ensure observance of these teets ane which at same time will provide maximm
internal security, without dependence of .. forces, for a disarmed Japan.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
Phe. Retune te
CI.FREEN (NA)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOP SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
Civil Affaire Division
Lt Col Hendrick
Mr Rudland (State) 74081
TO:
CINCFE
Nr:
WAR 92991
22 November 1948
From CSCAD c1te ICO.
1. Ref Para 7 of NSC 13/2 apd by the President as
of 9 0ct 48.
2. Without compromising fundamental tenets of
police reforms, urgent that problem of internal security be
satisfactorily met in order that post-occupation disarmed
Japan may have eff police protection. Recognized that
responsibilities for insuring solution this problem through
improvement in numbers, equip and tng standards of police
and through steady realizations of provisions of maritime
safety auth bill will devolve upon you. In this connection
early shpmt from ZI of caliber 38 revolvers contemplated.
3. Understood here legislation amending police
law is contemplated at next regular session diet. There-
fore fol prinoiples considered basic to Japanese internal
security are furnished.
A. Creation of adequate mobile national
police reserves for handling disaster or civil
violence.
B. Establishment of separate national agency
for internal security directly under one of the
Ministries, possibly Attorney General's Office.
Suoh agency would be similar to FBI and like organ-
izations in other democratic countries. Such
agency would be primarily investigative and
surveillance agency for advising Natl Govt and
all police auth re stste of internal security.
C. Provisions of broadened powers and respon-
sibilitiee for Natl Police in order that there will
be standardized police enforcement of Natl Laws,
and coordination of activities all police units,
both local and natl at all timee.
ORIGINATOR:
GEN EBERLE
DISTRIBUTION:
GEN EBERLE (STATE), GEN IRWIN, MR DPAPER,
GEN MADDOCKS
CM OUT 92991
(Nov 48)
DTG:222048Z wwb
TOP SECRET

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.88)
Ate
Copy . 3
SECRET
DEPAFTMENPT CF STATE
Division of Research Por Far Fast
THE STATUS OF POLYCE PEORGARTZATION IN JAPAN
D 137
April 22, 1949
SEOPEY

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
THE STATOS OF POLICE REORGANIZATION IN JAPAN
Present indications are that SCAP intends in the near future
to take only limited steps to imploment the principles outlined by
the Department of State for strengthening the Japanese police force
(in re para 7, Sc 13/2).
A. Equipaent and Peraomel
In regard to the fulfillmont of its responsibility for streng-
thening the equipment and training of the Japanese police, SCAP has
undertaken affirmstive measures to provide a greater nusber and an
improvad quality of sidearms end mumition to the police. Further-
more, the reorganiz tion an improvement of the police communications
network ves, accorling to pruss repcrts, completed during the pest
vinter. Hovever, serious shortages of modern police equipment remain
a current problem; the Japenese police lack, for example, sufficient
high frequency radios, radio care, and armorei. cars. In eddition,
training facilities are inadequate end the pay scales for police per-
sonnel gonerally continue to bo low. Without direct SCAP assistance
in providing the required equipment o special funde, the Japanese
Govermment is dependent upon its oum financial resources for the im-
provement of police pereomel and equipment.
For the 1949-50 fiscal year, the naticiel govermment planmed
to budget some 30 billion yen for the national police and for assist-
ance to the local police and to increase the local government con-
solidated budget to 434 billion yen, thus allowing more funde for the
SECRET

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRST
2
local police fron that source. Eowever, the stabilization program
forced a police budget cut at the national level to 9-10 billion yen
and at the local level to 350 billica yen. Tho 9-10 billion appropria-
tion should eneble the national police to cover their current operating
expenges but will prevant them fron buying the new equipment needed and
fron improvins facilities, as a result effectively tlooking one channel
for the strengthening of the Jepanese police. The status of the local
police mader the 1949-50 budget is more doubtful, despite the fact the
local police have the firat lien on specific tax revemes. The larger
cities will probably be able to waintain their present police sorvices
without iaprovements in quality or quantity. On the other hand, the
inability of many smeller citiss and towns to pay for police expanses
during the past year exsphacizes their nesd for supplesentary appropria-
tiona to guaranteo even minimal police protoctic in thecs areas.
Duriag the past year, the gap betveen the miniaam expenses of
the police in these emaller cities and tovms end the appropriations
made by their locel governesnts was filled through voluntary contri-
butions mele by mmbers of the community and by local oyabun (leaders
of cortain illagal activitios). Dopenience a such voluntery con-
tributions cbviously can have (end, in scme instances, alresdy has had)
a corruptive iurlusnce cn the police, since the voluatary contributors
are aole to wee their caatributioes to buy polies protection for their
1llegal ope ations. Consegusntly, thore is litils Luslihocd of a
material improveant in the equlpment and training of the Japanese
SEORUST

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
3
police unlese the local and naticnal budgets are increased or unless
SCAp institutes moanres to provide equipmont and fumds outside the
budget.
B. Basic Principles
As to the besic principles outlined by the Depariment of State,
available eources indicate that the folloving steps have been taken:
1. Cresticm of en Adequate Mobile Reserve. At prssont, the creation
of & police xeserve through the eddition of more national policemen
is nct contemlated; SC P has evidently rejocted the Japacese Govern-
ment's pleno for ea additicnal 25,000 national police. Ae a result,
a mobile reverve, if crganizod, vill have to be formed fras existing
netional police units. Thsse umita are genorally assigned in emall
detachmente to rural areas end vould require more autcmotive and com-
immiceticns equipment than is at present available to them in order to
constitute en sdequete reserve Porce for all types of intornal emergen-
clea. Under the present budget, they will probably mot ettain edequate
mobility thls yeer.
2. Satsblishasnt of a NationcI Authority for Internal Security.
In generel, the present plans c? the Japeneae Goverment, with which
ScAP apparently concure, sre to strengthen the Legal provisions against
extrmist activities snd to aseign enforcemont of these lows and ordi-
nancee to the Special Luvettigations Burvau of the Attorney General's
Office, an agoncy that could in time be developed into a full-fledged
national anthority for intormal security. On April 4, 1949, the Japanese
Govermment broadened tho provicicme of Dupsrial Crliranos l0l in order
SECRET

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.88)
4
SECRET
to provide a logal basis for action againet the Commmists as well as
the right-vin extremiet groups. The odinance empovers the Attornoy
General to investigate and meintain surwillance over axtrerist groups
and to diseoive and purge groupe that violate the crlinance. The
Epecial Irveutigation Furaau, which vill anforce the crdinarce, will
probably ioisawe its stefy by 100-150. In dditicu, the Japaneso
preae hes eocired that Priss Ministax Yoshile plans to create a aps-
cicl oreen. xrihape under the Attoroey Ceooral, to snforce projected
legislation cirested egadest the Commmiste.
3. Powers of the Meticual Polics. Vith the recout rogeotion by
ScAp of Japansue plens Por the Teorganization of the Japeneee police
syatem, any notion in fokyo to iersane the povere e the zational
police to coortinats oporstione of the local polics uppeoss to have
been dofermed indefinitaly. Tho Jspanove Goverooent's plens, which
vere sever fornulated in detall, contemplatel trensforring the local
police of the snaller citiee snd tovns to the Seticaal Rusal Police.
citios with a populaticn vaziously cot et i ures betneen 20, 00o and
300,000 woild be permitted to maiztain ca imlepwdlent police force.
These govemeant plame, suppertee by the setsomel se losel police
as woll as zoet local governments, evidently did mot susgoet giving
the mationel police poasr to coodinste the  xtivitles cs those inde-
pendent leoal wite resaining fter the peosgcnizatioa. The reascce
presontel by the Jepasese Covexement to support ihe pleme were the
inability of meny loeol gevermments to Sisesce their police forves
the hige crime rate, coupled with the imsrfinlesny of many local police
S

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.90)
SECRST
5
unite; and the inadequate provisions for internal security under the
present docentralizsd system. SCAp refused to epprove these plans on
the grouxin thet smy such changes tendeć to recroate a centralized
police. Hoither SCAP, which holds to both full police decentralization
under the present systen snd linitad police budgetary appropriations,
nor the Japensse Goverrment, which seokn dractic reenalganation of
many loeal police vaits with the naticmnl police, appeave to be working
towwe a crerprcadas thet will provide maxima internel security ucdor
a decentrtilged eysta. In the reantine, the question of broadening the
ncticsal. police 'e povero to coortinate local urits end stondardize en-
forpeent of loy remeirs unsettlod, as does the problem of the ameller
local. coemmities who have not beon relieved of thelr police responsi-
bilities but have not received the financial aid they meed to pay for
adequnta police protectrics.
It should be noted, Piaally, that the Jt penese Goverrment appears
to be fally evave of the Department of State reecmesndations and may be
using thee as a lever for seouring even grester conccssions pointing to
a more centralized police syetsm.
SC

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.94)
THE PORTEN SERVICE
OF THE
UNNTED STATES OF AMERICA
United S tates Political Adviser
NA
for Japan
Tokyo, May 9, 1949.
Action Assigned to
REC'D
No. 295
woa
JAY 16
Action Taken
2201
RESTRICTED
rate of etion
ACTION
 Vubol NA
FE
Subject: Japanese Police Orgenizetiou in Odawara end Vicinity.
lils
IHFO
in  -
DCR
OLI
894.105/5-949
SY
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
x1
I have the honor to enclose a co: y of a memorandum prepared
by Vice Consul Richerd H. Lamb, an officer of the American Consulate
Generel at Yokohama, on the subject of "Japanese Police Orgenization
in Odawara and Vicinity". Odewara is located about thirty miles west
of Yokohama and hes a populetion of about 35,O00 people.
The enclosed memorandum describes problems caused by the separa-
tion of Japan's police forces into the National Rural Police and the
local autonomous police, particulerly jurisdictional matters and the
financial difficulties of small towms meintaining their own police.
The memorandum suggests the need for some change in police orgeniza-
tion at the villa e level and reconmends thet the local communities
and locel police be consulted before any suustantial changes in pres-
ent organization are made.
This Mission considers thet the enclosed memorendum présents an
excellent summery of Japenese police problems in an erea containing a
medium-sized city end several towns and villeges. It also endorses
the view thet local opinion should be consulted hefore changes are
mede affecting village and city police.
Respectfully yours,
Cloyce K. Huston
att.
Charge d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosure:
Copy of memorandum prepared
by Vice Consul Richard H. Lamb.
370.1
RBFinn:gmd
CMR
Rerchment Mat to the Department
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
Copy to American Consulate General, Yokohama

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch no. 295 dated
May 9, 1949,from the United States
Political Adviser for Jepan, Tokyo,
on the ubject "Japenese Police
RESTRICTED
Organization in Odawara and Vicinity".
MEMCRANDUM
To:
U. Alexis Johnson, Consul General
From:
hichard H. Lemb, Vice Consul
Subject: Jepanese Police Organization in Odawara and Vicinity
On April 16, 1949 I called on Horuji NAKANO, Inspector and
Assistant to the Chief, Odawara City Police, in connection with
e projected report on the politicel situetion in Odawera. In
the course of our private conversetion which lasted about 45
minutes we discussed the police organization in the Odawara area
in some detail, perticularly the relationship between the city
and other local police wnits on the one hend, and the National
Rural Police on the other.
Friends who are long-time residents of Odawara recommended
Nakeno as one of the ablest and best informed officials in the
city, snd indicated that he enjoys a high reputstion for efficiency
end honesty in Odawara, even though his active performance of his
duty in suppressing blackmarket deelings in fish end other products
has discomforted a number of the more prominent members of the
conmunity. Nakano, who is perhaps ust under 40, is a policeman
by career, end as a result of examinations has risen in a relative-
ly short period to the position which he now holds. During our
short conversation he impressed me as being a man of integrity es
well as intelligence, and he answered my questions with a direct-
ness and clarity unusual among Japanese public officials.
The police force of the city of Odawera, with a population of
between 60, 000 and 70,00, has a total strength of 110 men. The
Natonal Rural Police of the district, with headquarters in the
building next door to city police hesdquarters, has a strengtn of
approximately 55. The Rural Police are responsible for maintain-
ing order in the Hakone resort district to the west and the rural
areas between the larger communitie to the north end south; tney
nave little or nothing to do with police affairs within the city
of Odaware itself. The city police are wholly responsitle for
mainteining law and order within the city limits; in addition to
routine police duties, they are charged with supprersing black-
marketing and other economic violations which flourish in this
relatively prosperous fishing and farming center. In this work
they are frequently consulted, advised, and occasionally prodded
by an Economic Officer of the Kanagawa Militery Government Teem.
They also keep close watth on political activities within the city,
particularly the activities of the Communists, with which the CIC
representatives who regularly call at police headquarters seem
greatly (but in Nakano's opinion unnecessarily) concerned.
Before meeting Nakano I had been informed that the Rural
Police of the district were currently held in low esteem by most
of the cityfolk, and that they were envious of the prestige of
the city
RESTRICTED

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's no. 295,
May 9, 1949.
- 2 -
the city police, whose gains in power and influence had been made
lergely at their expense. When I suggested to Nakano that this
might be the case ana thet, moreover, there might be some friction
between the two forces, he at first denled this ausolutely, and stated
that on the contrary the two forces cooperated very effectively, and
in emergencies frequently called on erch other for help, which was
given without reserve. I then indiceted that I had heard that the
new sys tem of independent forces in each town and Rural Police for
the areas in totween had proved both inefficient and expensive, and
that it might be better to reorgenize the police on a more centralized
basis, perhaps with the prefecture as a unit. Nakano replied that I
had no doubt heard that sort of thing from the people "next door",
or from their superiors in Yokohama. Their attitude was quite under-
stendable, he said. from a force of 3,300 in Kanagawa prefecture
prior to the reorganizetion, the central police (or more properly
the Rural Police, who had lergely inherited the old organization) had
been reduced in ttrength to approximately 600, with a corresponding
diminution in power and prestige. They naturally resented the "up-
tart" forces in the local comumnities, and were anxious to regain
their former position. (althouch Ne eno did not say so, others in
Odavera have told me thet the city police ere believed to be abler
and are consequently more respected than the Rwal Police of the
district, who seem to heve inherited, in addition to the old organi-
zation, the dislike and distruet which most ordinary Japanese former-
ly felt for the "alien" police which the central government placed
among them)
I asked Nakano if he did not believe that there were some faults
in the present system, which mi ht be remedied if the police were to
be recrgenized on a more centralized basis. He admitted thet there
were fe lts, and proceeded to enumerate them. Although he believed
thet large populetion centers like Odawarn had benefited from the
new orgenizetion, he recognized that smaller communities had been
confronted with new problems. Manamuu, a smell fishing village a
few miles down the Izu Peninsuls, hrd at present a police force of
seven men (prior to the reorganization, only one policeman hed been
regularly assigned to Manazuru). The force had been organized at
a time when profits in the village were high, and the villagers had
at first been highly pleased at the increased protection which it
gave them. Lately, due to higher taxes and increasing restrictions
on blackmarket denling in fish, the income of the villagers had been
sharply reduced, and they were having difficulty in paying police
salaries and other costs (average salary for & police recruit;
4,000 yen per month). Nakano edmitted that the limited and fluc-
tuating income of small communities like manazuru was probably not
sufficient to support an adequate independent police force.
Nakano also recognized that the Rural Police were confronted
by serious obstacles as a result of the present system. To the
south, Manazuru and Yugaware had independent forces, but the Rural
Police were responsible for the large aree in between, including
the smaller villages which did not have separate forces; end to
the north of Odawara Kozu was outside their jurisdiction, but they
were nevertheless responsible for Maeha and the area beyond Kozu.
Nakano acknowledged that this system was not wholly efficient, and
agreed that some changes woula have to be made.
He believed,
RESTRICTED

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.94)
4
Enclosure to Tokyo': no. 295,
May 9, 1949.
- 3 -
He believed, however, that the system of independent police
forces in Local communities also had very considerable advantages,
and he certainly would not have it scrapped in favor of a restora-
tion of the old pattern of certralized control. In Odawera and
other communities of similar size the new force hed proved to be
most effective: most of the members f the force were natives of
Odawera end the surruunding ares, end were more familiar with the
problems of the city then an out-ider would be. They were also
obviously mere populer with their fellow-townemen then their
colleagues on the Rural Police force. In the smaller communities,
too, it was not a quertio of the loesl police being unpopular or
"inefficient" in the performance of their duties: it wes only that
the cost wes sometimee too high for the community to berr. Nakano
did not dwell on the other obvioue advantages of a democ atic police
force, selected by and responsible to the community which it serves.
In Nekano's opinion the irrati malities of the present system
could be most effectively vesol ed, not by rertoring control to the
prefectural government (and rebuilding a large bureaucrecy in the
prefectural capital), but b estebliehing a numter of relatively
small but efficient district police organizeations, each with a
centrel headquarters, which would still be responsible only to the
people within the district, and be financially supported by them.
To the south, for instance, the police forces of Manazuru and
Yugawera (present strength, 13) could be cembined and strengthened.
and woule then be able to opernte efficier tiy in beth communities
and the ares in between Te the perth n pwependent forcewith
herdquertere in Kozu conld aemune reanonsibility fer the city and
the farming area around it, extendine south to the Odawara city
limits. In this way. skane beljeved. the neffisicncies and
overlappine urisdictien and much of the experse of the present
eystem could be climinrted. wi ile at the same time the advantege
of the "grass roots" pattern of crgrniretion coule be retnined.
Nakano did not indicste whet frstions w ul  le't to the Rural
Police in a syetem such as thet vrich re proposed.
Comment:
Nakanore etatemente shoule of couree wot s cccepted without
reserve, since he is clearly not a disinterested ohserver. As he
res pointed out, however. those whs are a itoti f.r e more centrel-
ived police organizatien pre probebly rot lisartereted cither. In
my opinion it would be mnwire to ndertete aay ler e scele reerganize-
tion of the Jeparese Police witht tine the  inions of
local police and other officiele rnd to peple of the conrunities
which they serve.
/=/ Richerd H. Lamb
Apr11 20, 1949
100
RESTRICTED

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.93)
hleDOR
INCOMING AIRGRAM
NWB
NORTHEAST ABIAN AFFAIHS
Aotion Taken N acTin
2
IAUG-51949
exurtas noel
989
BA
maigiially
ACTION: FE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INFO
Date of Action
DC/R
office of
FROL:
MSPOLAD, Toky?
OLI
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Action Office SymbolNA
5 1949
CIA
Date of
ail in Name of orracort -s, rea.
AAN
H
 of State
Lile
to DR
RESE.ICTED
Rec': Aug. 5, 1949 9:52a.m.
Secretury of State,
shington
A-194, Ju1y 30, 1949.
On aul, 27, 1949 a resolution was passed at a
894.105/7-3049
conference of prefectural governors from Hokkeido
ani the Tohoku district meeting in Tokyo re uesting
the abolition of the local autonomous police force in
the prefectures concerned because of financial diffi-
culties and the reported inability of the police under
the current cutonomous system to check increasing crime
in those areas.
In nokkaido nd the six prefectures of the Tohoku
district it is reported that criue has reachel  postwar
peak. A considerable nuaber of instances of "social
unrest" have been reported in this area al ong with more.
than 70o cases of rallway sabotage since the first of
0
1949.
8/4/49
19
Yomiuri himbun in its issue of January 29, 1949
quotes State minister Higui as stating that "many
resolutions have been passed on the abolition of local
autononous police but I cannot suy anything regarding
the matter . The amendments to the police laws to be
presented to the coming special Diet are being drafted
with the eak points of the local autonomous police
in mini.
Locul prefectural authorities have on nunerous
ocoasions expressed dissatisfaction with the system of
FILET
local eutonomous police particulerly in view of the financial
hurden this system imposes upon the local edministrations
which are already facing serious fiscal difficulties.
1949
SEBAID
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
.70.1/310

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
DARD FORM NO, 64
RESTRICTED
HAMT
TO
: FE - Mr. Allison
DATE:
8/2/49
RAF
FAR EASTERBAFIAIHS
FROM : NA - Mr. Bondh
949
ALD
SUBJECT:
FBIB Reports
There are two develonments in today's FBIB reports of
file
particular interest:
sde
(1) he first concerns  press statement by Higai,
State Minister in Charge of Police, on the need to improve
the mobile end crime detectior equinment of the police and to
increase the r tic of national rural police to Jocal police.
Hipai points out that in severel communities locel police are
reing disl ended for lack of local funds. Since SCAP regula-
tions cet a limit of 50, 00 rure1 to 95, 000 1ocal police, no
police are aveilable to fill the vacuum crested by the
resienations.
(2) The second is a Heuter report that Hepler,
Chier of SCAP'e Labor Division is resignine this September to
become heon of the ILo's Monnover Section in Geneva.
894.105/8-2
Comment:
he item (1), this sup orts the position taken in the
draft letter sent forward to you lest week. Further supporting
that nosition is the following paragreph excerpted from a
despetch by kr. Spinks, received today:
"Already local 'vigilant committees' heve been
organized by the townspeople of Taira and nine other
communities wher it is felt that locel units of the
Notional Rural Police are unable or unprepared to deal
With incidents like the communist seizure of the Teira
4
police station on June F0 (this Missi n's A-175, July 8,
6
1949)."
Re item (o), I understand t is report is probably
true. If so, it is unfortunate, for Mr. Hepler has done a
very good Job, notebly in negotiating ravisions of the Japan-
ese labor standards laws and in handling the recent railway
workers controversy. His successor is likely to be Paul Amis,
number two in the Labor Division end a men of little consequence.
Hepler not only displayed good judgment but was in a position to
C/R
ahle on occasion to have private pudiences with SCAP. SCAP
AyH)reported to have pleaded with Henler not to resign.
1
5 1952
工
8
RESTRICTED
FE:NA:MGreen:awAMG
2
DECLASSIFIED
f
Cat
NNO 2500G5
X 100192
By 7C/C.NAnS, Date 8.10.78

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-RESTRIGTED
- AAA 6-
FAR EAST
Japan
July 29, 1949
NEED FOR REVISING POLICE LAW STRESSED
Dispatch in English Morse from James Shen in Tokyo for CENTRAL NEWS
in Canton, July 29, 1949, 3:00 a.m. EST--H
(Text)
"Tokyo, July 29--'When the time comes the Japanese Government will
petition SCAP for an increase of police and scientific equipment and
for the revision of the ratio between State and rural police forces,
Senzo Higai told CENTRAL NEWS this afternoon. Higai, State Minister
in charge of State and rural police, emphasized that in order to bolster
Japan's police force 'it is not so much important to increase the number
of police as to improve police mobility.'
"Higai regarded the revision of the Police Law as (necessary in) order to
establish 'a truly democratic and enlightened police force.' He said
in revising the law efforts are being made to bring about an early
accord between State and rural police, and between the Government and the
Public Safety Committee.
"Higai continued, meanwhile, the police authorities are making prepara-
tions which he felt convinced should be able to cope with any eventuality
prior to the revision of the Police Law. He added, 'When the whole
situation is considered, it must not be forgotten that Japan is an
occupied country'--apparently implying the occupation forces were expected
to help where the Japanese Government was unable to cope with a situation.
"Higai, confirmed reports that at least two localities rave disbanded
local police forces because it was financially impossible for them to
maintain them. Many other regions are intending to take similar steps,
he added.
"Higai said when the local police disbanded the state police would
automatically take over and no vacuum would be allowed to exist, but
this cannot be done effectively unless the ratio between State and rural
police be revised.
"According to SCAP regulations, Higai said Japan was allowed only 125,000
police of whom 30,000 are State police and (50,000) 1ocal police. While
the increase in the over-all police number is not being considered,
a revision of the ratio so as to increase the number of State police to
make up for the reduction in(ruraD police seems highly desirable,
Higai said.
Loe aC

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
THE PORIEIGN SERVICE
UNITED STATESOP AM
894.105/8-549 S 7
Officof the United States
Poltacal Adviser for Japan
DVAugust 5,1949.
REC 'D
No. 529.
ORTHFAST ASIAN AFFAIDS
AUG 17
AUG2 1949
SECRET (For Department use only).
action
FE
IEPARTMENE OF STATE
7ile
INFO
DUR
DCR
Subject: View of Meadpuarters Police Official in Regard to Police
OLJ
Situation in Japan.
C
006246
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Files
Central
Sir:
I have the honor to veport the gist of a conversation between
Mr. H.S. LAToN, Chief Police Administrator of the Police Safety
Division of the G-2 Section of Headquarters, and an officer of this
Mission in regard to changes in the present Japanese police system.
894
Must Be Returned to
Mr. Eaton was asked pecifically concerning rumors now current
4.105/8-549
in the Jepanese press that the Japanese police forces would be
creatly centralized and possibly expanded in nunber. Members of
the YosliDA Cabinet ans ? the Demoeratic Liberal Party have given
this thesis ide currency in public statements and in criticism of
the National Rural Police. Mr. Laton stated that no sweeping changes
in the police are planned and thah the position laid down in General
MacARTHUR's letter of September 16, 1947, (see despatch no. 1334,
October 14, 1947, enclosure 2), to Prime Minister Tetsu KATAYAlfA con-
cerning the new police systen for Japan till represents Headquarters
policy as to the organization and size of Japan's police forces.
Mr. Eaton said he had emphasized to Japanese officials on several
occasions that the great centralization desired by Mr. Yoshida was
entirely contrary to th pur. ses of Occupation police reform. Mr.
Eaton said he has no kno..  of a letter alleged to have been
written to General facArthur recently by Mr. Yoshida requesting a
"special police" force; other Headquarters officials have denied
this report, which was publithed in Tokyo by the International News
Service (see this Mission's despatch no. 528 of August 5, 1949).
Several minor
SECRET FILE
SECRET
CS/H
JUL 1 4 1952
FILED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 529,
August 5, 1949.
-2-
Several minor changes in Japan's police are being planned,
according to fr. Eaton. His ofice has for some time been working
with Japanese officials on a draft bill to amend the Police Law in
certain respects. Only two changes of note are now being considered:
one would permit small local entities -- machi and mura -- to hold 
elections for the purpose of deciding whether they wished to retain
their autonomous police or whether they wished to be brought under
the jurisdiction of the National Rural Police; and the other would
strengthen the authority of the Director General of the National Rural
Police so that he would be empowered to direct the operations of all
National Rural Police units and not merely those of the Headquarters
of the National Rural Folice. Thi: draft revision of the Police Law
is now being considered by the Japanese Cabinet and will thereafter
be submitt ed to concerned sections of Headquarters for concurrence;
it will proba ly be submitted to the special Diet session to be con-
vened thi, l for consideration. Mr. Eaton said there is no plan
presently bing considered for increase of the size of Japan's police
forces.
When aked h ether the centralization contemplated by the above
revision vould be sufficient to assure proper police coordination,
Mr. Eaton stated his opinion that the new decentralized system is still
in its foraative stage and can not therefore be judged conclusively.
He observed that many local entities are very proud of their local police
and do not wish to be put under the national police. He indicated that
the new ysten is vorking out well, in spite of acute financial diffi-
culties.
Mr. aton a o noted another recent development of significance
in connection wit1 the police. In the middle of July I4, Ooo pistols
received from the United States were distributed to Japan ese police.
Because of the inferior guality and very inadequate number of pistols
lheretofore vailable to Japan's police, this addition is expected to
have the effect of greatl strengthening the operations and increasing
the morale of the police. This action has to date received no publicity
in the preas in Japan, somewhat to the surprise of Public Safety Division
officials, but it appears impossible that the news can be kept secret for
1ong. These 14, 000 pistols are the first of 125,000 to be distributed,
along with ammunit ion, to Japan's authorized 125,000 policemen.
Mr. Eaton was asked about the recent controversy between Prime
inist er Yoshida and Director General Noboru SAITO of the National
Rural rolice over the latter's alleged failure to coordinate with the
Gover:ment. Although he conceded that there probably are shortcomings
in the Police Law in regard to the relation between the Government, the
National Fublic Safety Commission, and the national police, Mr. Eaton
felt that the difficulties are not primarily legel but are ones that
will be worked out in practice when greater exper  nce with the new
system is acquired.
It is
SECRET

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 529,
August 5, 1949.
-3-
It is the opinion of Public Safety Division officials that the
situation in Japan with respect to law enforcement is now considerably
improved. They note that public unrest has greatly subsided in the
past several weeks. Mr. Eaton felt that improved police methods and
morale were factors in this change for the better, although he admitted
that many other considerations had to be taken into account.
The Japanese press and public have in the past several months
expressed great anxiety over the ineffectual effort's of the police.
The early stages of the rumored "Tabor offensive" during the summer
months provoked a rash of strikes and disorders, which the police put
down with considerable difficulty. The incident in the town of Taira
in Fukushiaa Prefecture, in which the local police were rendered help-
less for several hours and outside reinforcements were prevented from
entering, and the Mitaka incident in Tokyo, in which an electric train
consisting of seven cars, all empty, was apparently pushed on  down-
grade with the result that it crashed into several buildings killing
eight people, greatly increased public apprehensions. The mysterious
SHIMOYAMA case, in which the mangled body of the president of the
National Railway Company was found on railway tracks in a.suburb of
Tokyo, contributed to these fears.
Since the Mitaka incident on July 15, there have been no serious
disturbances in Japan. General revulsion at the series of defiant and
provocative outbursts of disorder, together with hostility toward
leftist elements suspected of instigating these acts, has apparently
fright ened those who have an interest in disturbing public peace. The
vigor with which the police have pursued suspects in the Taira and
Mitaka incidents and in the Shimoyama case also seems to have impressed
both the public and would-be trouble-makers. Japanese law-enforcement
and crime-preventin agencies are now taking vigorous action and it is
hoped that they will begin to demonstrate both the effectiveness of the
new system and their ability to handle any civil disturbance in labor,
political, and repatriation disorders.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
370.1
RBFinn:hh
Parchment Mat to Department.
SECRET (For Department use only).
AERS

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.94)
JFE
THE FORDEN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
frice of the United States
DIVISitical Adviser for Japan
No。 528
AUG211949
no actim regined
SECRIT (For Department use only).
IEPARTMENT OF STATE
me.
894.105
8-549 Searet file
Sinr.6, 1949.
REC "D
7e
AUG 17
Subject. Ts Peport Alleging Headperters Communication to Prime
ACTION
ini a Regarding Proposed Police Reorganization.
DlR
FE
INFO
DCR
The Honorable
ILI
The Secretary of State,
sashington.
Sir:
C
ROKEXRX
1/
I have   honor to refer to an article (enelosure one) which
Central
R 894.105/8-549
This Document Must Be Returned to
appeared in the Nippon Times of August 1, 1949, by John RICH, Inters
0KEX
national Mews Service staff correspondent, alleging that General
WHITNEY, Chief of the Covernnent Section of General Headquarters,
006247
had replied for Headqparters to a letter of July 21 in which Prime
Minist er Y SHDA had proposed a reorganization of the Japanese polic
The Rich story asserted that Prime linister Yoshida is seeking ap-
proval for the establishment of a pecial police force and that Head-
quarters has responded unfavorably; that General Whitney reiterated
to the Prime Minister that SCAP's attitude still is that the extreme
right in Japan is of greater danger than the extreme left, that the
Occupation authorities le. their support to Prime Minist er Yoshida
not because he is a con  vative but because he is the choice of a
majority in the Diet; and, inci lentally, that there will be no re-
laxation of the purge by categori es, end that it is not to Japanese
interest to talk of  parate peace treaty with the Unit ed States.
Fursuant to the appearance of the article on August 1 this Hission
got in touch with ir. Hatsumi OlNo, Chief of the Generel Affairs Bureau
of the Foreign Office, Who had already prepared (for the Prime Minister's
informition) a brief paper attempting to trace the origin of the INS
2/
story (enclosure two). It vill be noted that the Foreign Office account
gave some emphasis to the assertion that the story was concocted for
political purposes and had been given circulation a week earlier by
Norman SooNG, Tokyo correspondent of the Central News Ageney of China.
At noon on August 1 the Prime Minister issued to the press a
3/
denial of the current stories on the subject (enclosure three). He
SECRET FILB
referred to reports of an alleged exchange of letters between himself
and Headquarters upon certain policy matters including the question
of a special police, and stated that there was absolutely no foundation
in fact
JUL 1 4 1952
CS/H
SECRET
FILED
ou
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN IA DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No.
528, August 5, 1949.
-2-
in fact for the story. He took the occasion to assert that his
Government will continue to cooperate, as always, fully and whole-
heartedly with the Occupat ion in every respect. Stories incor-
porating the denial were published in the press generally and that
4/
published in the Nippon Times of August 2 is attached (enclosure
four). It will be noted that the spokesman for the Government Section
is reported by the Nippon Times as having denied that General Whitney
or any other section official had issued the reported statement of
SCAP policy.
From the cral explanation made by Ohno in connection with the
Foreign Office appraisal of the origin of the story it was clear
that cert in oral communications between the Government Section and
the Japanese Government had in fact taken place with regard to the
question of he organization of the police and other subjects. It
would apper that the special interest of the Foreign Office in
accounting for the origin of the story was a result in considerable
part of the fact that similarity between the story and the oral com-
munications made by the Government Section to the Japanese Government
raised a prosuaption that a leak had taken place through Japanese
officials.
The ore serious implications of the occurrence, viewed in the
light of instructions to the Supre ne Conmander, will not have escaped
the Department's attention. This Mission is of opinion that several
of the points alleged in the INS article have in fact been currently
comm nicated by Government Section to Japanese officials. The proba
bili'y of the correctness of this diagnosis is supported by the we'l-
knovn exist ence of a segnent of informed opinion among concerned o'ficers
in Headquarter: that the points alleged ought to be asserted to the
Japanese if they have not yet been. We strongly incline to the view
that Gen eral Whitney in his current contact with the Japanese Government
is continuing to say that the purge should not be appreciably relaxed,
that the extreme right in Japan is a greater danger than the extreme
left, und tlhat such support as the Occupation gives to the Prime
Minister s administ ration is not because he is a conservative. Per-
sonnel of Government Section in their informal contacts in and out of
Headquarters do not hesitate to advocate these points of view.
The Prime Minister was aware of the contact of Mr. Ohno with this
Mission in the natter and did not choose to supplement the official
denial by any fuller explanation to us. It is evident that he has been
in co munication with General MacARTHUR regarding the police; that
General Whitney (who is always a difficult problem to the Japanese
Government) has interposed comments along the lines described above;
that the Prime Minister relies on his direct approach to General Mac-
Arthur in those matters which he considers of sufficient importance;
and that the Prime Minister chose to issue a denial of the INS article,
at the desire of Government Section, in order to avoid further friction
with General Whitney.
rime
SECRET

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 528,
August 5, 1949。
-3-
The Prime Minister has however taken occasion to upply me
direct inforation in discreet confidence with regard to a mount-
ing difference of view between his Cabinet and General Whitney on
the subject of police powers and the relative responsibilities of
the Cabinet and the National Public Safety Commission in the
maintenance of public order. It will be noted that the Nippon
Times articl, of August ? (enclosure four) ended by referring to
in assertion by Chief C-binet Secretary MASUDA that the press re-
ports of Hoaiquarters attitude on pelice matters would not deter
the Government from seeking revision of the Police Law. On the
followin: lay the newspaper Nippon Keizai published an article
(which 1  Foreigm Office informs us has the merit of authenticity)
purpertin t cutline the police system revision proposed by the
51
Democreti iberal Party (enclosure five). Consequent upon its
publication neral Whitney summoned Mr. Masuda, who is known to
he ti: Gevermment:s principal proponent of police reorganization.
Ar Masuta unt instead the principal liaison officer of the Foreign
ffice, Hr. TPana, to whom General Whitney voiced strong disapproval
of th propo ed plan and instructed that the Prime Minister should
have his arty disavow the plan as contrary to General MacArthur's
letter of September 16, 1947, (text of which was transmitted as
uncle mre o to the MMssion's despatch no. 1334, October 14, 1947).
Following this development the Prime Minister sent Mr. Ohno to
inforn me in the trictest confidence concerning the present diffi-
culties which he is cxperiencing with regard to Japanese police
matters. 'ir. Ohno c alled on August 5 and left with me a paper
6.1
(enclcaure six) embodying, in his own English translation, the Prime
Minister's statement to me on the subject. It will be noted that the
trime Minister makes a very positive statement in favor of direct re-
Snsibility on the part of the Cabinet for the maintenance of public
order, and tates that hs consider the National Public Safety Com.
mission a be ly of political tinge which was established by a previous
government nd ought not to be predominant in current police control.
(Enclosupe ven lists for reference the current membership of the
Hational Public Safety Commission.)
It. i evident that General Whitney mea time has pressed for
broad pe vars for the Nat ional Public Safety Commission in the opera
tion of the Police Law, and that he views this as a a ir e Com-
missien mothod means of checking the police powers of th tovernment.
Ti is th view of the Hission that a clear issue is now drawm in
this matrer, that the Prime Minister attaches importance to it, and
that the subject is not closed. The Department may find the enclosures
herewith useful for reference in connection with possible further de-
velopments.
With regard
SECRET

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.92)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 528,
August 5, 1949.
1+
Witl: regard to Headquarters views concerning the police situa-
tion in Japan reference is made to the Mission's despatch no. 529
of Angust 5, 1949.
Respectfully yours.
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures
Nippon Times article, August 1,
49, entitled " Special' Police
tup Said Rejected by SCAP".
/ccount by Japanese Foreign
Cffice, August 1, 1949 of back-
round leadins to pross articles
ati ging Gevernnenn -S0. ex
change rogarding police.
Press release by Prime binister,
Auyust 1, 1949, denying story.
1.0
Hipmen Times article, August 2,
1949, entit1et "Gno and Premier
Brand as Untrue Report in Papers".
ung tsh transhatin supplied by
the foreign orrice of article
po lished in Ronuon beszai news-
Papery August 3, 949, en
Desocretle Labopal Perty pro-
posed revisien of police system.
Statement delivered te Mr. Sebald,
Angust 5, 1949, by Mr. Ohno of the
Japanese Foreigu Office as from
the Prime Hinister. Translation
into English by Mr. Ohno.
Li st of members of the Japanese
National Public Safety Commission.
370.1
CCoville:hh
Parchment Mat to Department.
SEChET (For Department use only).

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No.
528 dated August 5, 1949, from
United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, subject:
"INS Report Alleging Headquarters
Communication to Prime Minister
Regarding Proposed Police Reorgan-
ization".
COFY
Nippon Times, August 1, 1949
'SPECIAL: FOLICE SETUP SAID REJECTED BY SCAP -- FeelerS by Yoshida
Reported Turned Down in Letter by Gen. Whitney
by John Rich
INS Staff Correspondent
General MacArthur's headquarters has reportedly rejected feelers
from Prime linister Shigeru Yoshida seeking approval for establishment
of a "special" police force.
Premier Yoshida was reminded that SCAP's attitude still is that
the extreme right in Japan is a greater danger than the extreme left.
The Prenier's July 21 letter to Gen. MacArthur prop sing the new
police set-up has been answered by Brig. Gen. Courtne, mitney, head
of the Goverrment Section.
An authoritative source told International News Service that Gen.
Whitney in his reply also outlined Headquarters feeling on several other
policy matters, as follows:
There will be no relaxation of the political purge by categories
but each c se must be considered individually.
The Japanese government must distinguish among Communists, anti-
con unism and the Communist Party.
It is to the best interests of the Japanese not to talk of a separate
peace treaty vith the United States.
The occupation authorities support Premier Yoshida, not as a con-
servative, but because he is backed by a majority in the Diet.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 528
dated August 5, 1949, from United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
RESTRICTED
Tokyo, subject: "INS Report Alleging
Headquarters Communication to Prime
Minister Regar'ing Froposed Police
Reorganization".
Account by Japtanese Foreign C fice, August 1, 1949, of background
leading to press articles alleging Government-SCAP exchange regarding
police:
COPY
1 August 1949
Subject
Neus tories concerning an Exchange of Correspondence
beive General MacArthur ani Prime Minister Yoshida.
1. Ho correspondence has been ent by the Prime Minister to
G.neral Macirthur under the date of the 21st. This fact has been
confirued today ith the private secretary of the Prime Minister
and it as further been clarified by the Prime Minister's denial
issued at noon today.
2. ith regard to General Whitney's reply to the Prime Minister's
alleged communication, it is clear from the statement of Mr. Rizzo,
deputy chief of Governent Section, that it is without foundation in
fact.
3. Fron the above it is believed that report of an alleged
exchange of correspondence is a complete fabricat ion. Insofar as we
have been able to investigate into the matter confidentially, the
fact has been confirmed that about a week ago Mr. Norman Soong of
the Central Mews Agency of China circulated a similar story among
foreign correspondents in Tokyo.
Thus there are indications on the basis of which it can be sur
mised that he had some motive in circulating information from which
news of the kind in question could be fabricated and that he, not
filing the story himself, made the reporting appear like an INS and
AP scoop.
4. By a consideration of the above the following three angles
or theories could be deduced.
a. Considering that some newspapers reported there were possi-
biliti es that the Yoshida Cabinet will propose relaxation of the Dodge
policy and increase of lightly armed police officers as suggested by
General Eichelberger, it may be surmised that the lower echelons in
GHQ entertained intentions of making the first move to nip the
anticipated proposal in the bud and thus shut it out. This intention
was taken advantage of by some designing elements wh manufactured
news out
RESTRICTED

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
528, August 5, 1949.
-2-
news out of talks with some officials in General Headquarters on the
several points which have been taken up in the reports as published.
In this case, it is certain that the alleged exchange of correspondence
was fabricated to clothe the story vith an appearance of truth.
b. I: may be a subversive move on the part of communist elements
who, snatehir infonmation comerning plans allegedly contemplated by
the Governse  ci les, had the information utilized by the above-meantioned
elements in e.
c. T vi  the common knowl edpe that par ies opposed to the
Democrati iheral Party, especially the so-called middle-of-the roaders,
are maint. ining conmections with certain officials in GhQ, it may be
surmised ths the news story representing a conglomeration of truth and
ficticn wa nafactured to utilize it for the purposes of political
strategy.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.91)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 528
dated August 5, 1949, from United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subject: "INS Report Alleging
Headquarters Conmunication to Prime
Minister Regarding Proposed Police
Reorganization".
COPY
St ment of ir. Yoshida, Frime Minister
August . 49
Toy  sd yesterday's nuwapaper carry stories by Tokye
foreim   ponlents concerning an alleged exchange of letters
he Allied Headguarters on certain pelicy
weter
question of a "Special Police."
n  lte f m lett er to the Suprene Commander for the
Alli- pewers is given, while the contents of his Headguarters!
puph   lhretol point r point, all of shich serve to clothe
hs  appearance or truth.
I o  te w that there is absolutely no foundation in
fact for   pios I an sratly puzeled es to their cource,
h  such c aards have been coneocted for circulation.
wall continue to cooporele as alweys frlly end
the ceeupst ion policy in every respect.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 528
dated August 5, 1949, from United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subject: "INS Report Alleging
Headquarters Communication to Prime
Minister Regarding Proposed Police
Reorganization".
COPY
Nippon Times, August 2, 1949.
GHQ AND PRLMTER BRAND AS UNTRUE REF ORT IN PAPERS -- Yoshida Denies
Ever Making Request to SCAP for 'Special Police'
Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida issued a formal statement yesterday
categorically denying reports issued by foreign press agencies and
carried by local venaculars /sic/ that SCAP had turned down among
other thinge n alleged request r the creation of a "spedial police."
The statenent of denial issued by the Prime Minister follows:
"Today's and yest erday's newspapers carry stories by Tokyo foreign
correspondents concerning an alleged exchange of letters between myself
and the Allied Headquarters on c ertain policy matters, including the
question of a special pelice.
"Even the date of my letter to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers is given, while the contents of his Headquarters' reply are indi-
cated point by point, all of which serve to clothe the dispatches with
an appearance of truth.
"I desire te say that there is absolutely no foundation in fact for
the stories, I am greatly pizzled as to their source, and the reason
why such canards have been concc ped for circulation.
"My Goveroment ill continue to cooperate as always fully and whele-
heartedly with the Cceupation policy in every respect."
The news reports, qucting "authoritative sources stated that SCAF
had told Prime Minister Yo* ida: (1) not to revise the so-called Dodge
Eeonomic Line, (2) not to 1 ft the "purge" on Zaibatsu and militarists
in power during the war, (, not to revise the present police system,
(4) to differentiate betwe Communists and the Communist Party, the
latter being a legal political organ, and, (5) not towork for a separate
peace treaty vith the United States.
Report without Foundation
By Rutherford Poats
UP Staff Correspondent
Gen. Douglas MacArthur's Government Section dismissed as "com-
pletely without foundation" reports that it had rejected an alleged
effort by Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida to win Occupation approval
for establishing a "special police force."
Frank Rizzo,

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 4 to
Tokyo's Despat ch No.
528, August 5, 1949.
-2
Frank Rizzo, Deputy Chief of Government Section, said neither
the Section's cl ief Brig. Gen. Courtney Whitney, nor any other
section official had issued the reported statement of SCAP policy.
An aide to Hr. Yoshida told the United Press that the Cabinet
had not received, either in riting or orally, such a statement and
that he kneu of no inquiry by the Prime Minister which might have led
to the reported CH) reply.
The Paported SCAr policy stat ement, covering police matters,
the "purge," the Japanese Government's attitude toward conmunism and
the Communist Farty, a separate peace treaty, and economic matters,
was publi shed by foreign news agencies other than the United Press.
Mr. Rizzo said the report apparently had been "planted" by some
 sup intere ed in its publication. This view was supported by
members of the Japanese press corps covering the Prime Ministers Office.
One reporter stated that a rumor that Mr. Yoshida had been rebuked by
SCAPs Goverment Section for his efforts to expand police action
against Conmunist elements was circulated recently by "opposition
party members."
It was understood that high SCAP officials were seeking late
Sunday, to determine the source of the runored SCAP action.
Secretary-General Kozen Hirokawa of the Democratic-Liberal
Party told the press that he believed the newspaper tories on
the alleged exchange of letters between Prime Minister Shigeru
Yoshida and the Allied Headquarters emanat ed from some Japanese
source possessing "ulterior totives."
Meanwhile, Chief Cabinet Secretary Kaneshichi Masuda said that
the Yoshida Cabinet would submit to the next Diet session a bill
designed to revise the current Police Law.
Mr. Masuda stressed that newspaper reports concerning the alleged
GHQ rejection of the Government's plan for "a special police" would
have no effect on the Cabinet's decision to seek revision of the
police system.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 5 to Despatch No. 528
dated August 5, 1949, from United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subject: "INS Report Alleging
Headquarters Communication to Prime
Minister Regarding Proposed Police
Reorganization".
English translation supplied by the Japanese Foreign Office of an
article published in the August 3, 1949, Nippon Keizai Shimbun, Tokyo.
COPY
Draft Outline of Plan for Revision of the Police System as proposed
by the Democratic--Liberal Party
In viev of recent disturbances such as the National Electric
Railway (Kokuden) Strike, the Taira incident and the Hiroshima
(Japan Steel) incident and also the collision between the Cabinet and
the National Public Safety Commission over the question of the pro-
posed removal of the Director-General of the Headquarters of the
National Rural Police, the Democratic-Liberal Party has been studying,
with the Policy Research Section playing the principal role, the
question of the revision of the police system with a view to amending
the shortcomings of the present police system and thereby insuring
the maintenance of public safety. As a result of this study, a Draft
Outline of Plan for Revision of the Police System has been completed
and submitted to Prime Minist er Yoshida, Mr. Masuda, Chief Cabinet
Secretary and lir. Higai, Minister of State. The gist of the plan is
as follows:
1. So far as it is necessary for national public security, the
National Rural Police (NRP) may, as a matter of course, exercise it s
authority, conducting the detection and suppression of crimes and ap-
prehension of suspects, in the areas under the jurisdiction of the
Police of Autonomous Entities (PAE). In this case, each PAE shall be
obligated to cooperate with NRP upon the request of the latter. The
authority of NRP shall concern the following types of crimes:
Crimes concerning rebellion and affecting foreign relations;
Crimes of disturbing internal peace;
Crimes which harm international relations;
Crimes committed against important persons;
Crimes of counterfeiting currencies and securities;
Crimes concerning smuggling;
Crimes committed against national properties and establishments;
Crimes of corruption of government officials.
2. The PAE shall be obligated to report to NRP information con-
cerning national public security, and NRP may as a matter of routine
practice accord guidance and training to the PAE.
3. In cases

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 5 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
528, August 5, 1949.
-2
3. In cases where law is not duly enforced or there exists any
such case in a city, town or village having a PAE, NRP may extend
its authority upon the demand of the governor or the assembly of
the district or prefecture (To, Do, Fu, Ken) concerned.
4. As between the NRP and the PAE, between the PAE of different
autonomous entities and between several units of NRP, prompt mutual
assistance may be accorded upon the request of the Chief of Police of
any such unit. In this case, the concurrence of the Public Safety
Commissions concerned must be obtained vwithin 20 days. The PAE shall
be obligated to comply with such reguest of NRP. Police officials
dispatched for purposes of assistance may exercise their authority in
the locality to vhich they are sent.
5. Interchange of personnel between NRP and different PAE shall
be permitted.
6. Provisions shall be made to the effect that the rights of the
people may be restricted in case where a state of emergency has been
proclaimed. A governor may, upon the recommendation of the Public Safety
Commission concerned, proclaim a state of energency over the whole or a
part of the area under his jurisdiction. In this case the governor shall
report to the Prime Minist er without delay and must obtain the approval
of the as y of the district or prefecture concerned within 20 days.
7. Cities with a population of 100, 000 or more shall invariably
establish a PAE. A city, town or village with a population of 5,000
or more may choose not to establish a PAE. In such cases, the fixed
number of police personnel of NRP shall be increased automatically by
the fixed number of personnel for the cities, towns and villages which
choose not to establish a PAE.
8. Over and above the present prescribed number of personnel which
consists of 30,000 for NRP and 95,000 for PAE, totaling 125,000, NRP
shall have additional police personnel of 50,000 of which 20,000 shall
be engaged in affairs concerning national public security and the re-
maining 30,O00 shall be organized into an armed Keibitai (Security Force).
9. The National Public Safety Commission shall, besides six members,
have a chairman who shall be appointed by the Prime Minister from among
the ministers of state. The term of office of members of the Commission
shall be three years and two of them shall be renewed in turn each year.
As for the conditions of disqualification, only those who have at any
time been in the police service shall be excluded from being a member of
the Commission.
10. The Director-General of the Headquarters of NRP shall be
appointed by the Prime Minister after hearing the opinion of the National
Public Safety Commission.
11. The Metropolitan Police Board shall be incorporated in NRP.
12. All police telephones and telegraphic facilities shall be
independently administered byNRP.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 6 to Despatch No. 528
SECRET
dated August 5, 1949, from United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subject: "INS Report Alleging
Headquarters Communication to Prime
Minist er Regarding Proposed Police
Reorganization".
Statement delivered to Mr. Sebald, August 5, 1949, by Mr. Ohno of the
Japanese Foreign Office as from the Prime Minister. Translation into
English by Mr. Ohno.
COPY
As to the interpretat ion of Police Law by the National Public
Safety Comission and by the Director General of National Rural
Police Hearters, it has been revealed that they have an opinion
that the stion of public safety is outside the jurisdiction of
the Cabinet. Thi: line of thinking is preposterous and it is ex-
tremely inapropriate to entrust the abministration of police force
under sucl parsons. It is my firm belief that, in view of the pre-
vailing unrest, the maintenance of public peace and order is one of
the biggest and gravest problems facing the Cabinet today. On the
surface, it appears as thouch peace and order are being kept in Japan
by her own police force, but it must be frankly admitted that public
safety is being maintained in Japan by the assistance of the United
States Army.
Japan had heretofore a strongly centralized police bureaucracy
and she was a police state in the literal sense of the word. To
remedy the ituation, it was pointed out by the Allied Headquarters
to decentralize the police sy sten in accordance with the principle
of local autonomy. As a result, the National Rural Police was
established on one hand and the Police of Autonomous Entities on the
other. However, due to scent appropriation in local areas, many
difficulties are being confronted by the Police of Autonomous Entities
for its  poth, efficient and mobile operation. The operation is
further hindered by the lack of mutual action and of exchange of im-
portant information between the National Rural Police and the Police
of Autonomous Entities.
It is said that the National Public Safety Commission believes
that the problen of maintaining public safety must be considered on
a non-partisan basis. This is quite natural, for the police force
must be made totally independent from any political party but certainly
not fron the Cabinet.
In viewing the present composition of the National Public Safety
Commission, it can not be denied that there is a political tinge emong
its members. The Commission was established during the days of the
Katayama
SECRET

=== Page 99 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 6 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
528, August 5, 1949.
-2
Katayama Cabinet and persons with Socialist lineage had been in-
cluded at that time. As the members of the Commission are identical
from the day of its inauguration, it is quite evident that men from
political parties are still holding their post in the said Commission.
It is readily admitted by everyone, particularly by those who
underwent bitter experinces under the past rigid system, that advent
of new police structure has greatly contributed to the democratization
of Japan. However, in the light of mounting social unrest, inefficient
operation of police and the recalcitrant attitude shown by the National
Public Safety Commission towards the Cabinet, it is keenly felt by all
law abiding citizens of the entire nation that something must be done
to cope with the prevailing situation. Like many other problems faced
by Japan in these trying days of postwar period, the new police system
may also require ample time for its ultimate fruition, but it is
deemed necessary that further reform of the entire police system and
of the National Public Safety Commission must be carried out as soon.
as possible in order to establish peace and order for this insular
nation upon a solid foundation.
SECRET

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 7 to Despatch No. 528
dated August 5, 1949, from United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subject: "INS Report Alleging
Headquarters Communication to Prime
Minister Regarding Proposed Police
Reorganization".
COPY
LIST OF THE MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION
TERM OF OFFICE
REMAINING
NAME
OCCUPATION
3 years........Chairman..TSUJI, Jiro......
..President of the Riken
Keiki K.K.
5 years........Member....UEMURA, Tamaki.......Vice president of the
World Y.M.C.A.;
President of Japan
Y.M.C.A.
4 years........Member....KANEiASA, Yonekichi..Vice president of the
Rodo-sodomei (Japan
Federation of Labor
Unions).
1 year.........Member....KIYOSE, Saburo.......Attorney and counselor
at law;
Chairman, Board of
Directors, Nihon
Taiiku-kai (Japan
Athletic Association).
2 years........Member....UEUATA, Makoto......Mayor of the town of
Numata.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.94)
FEMA
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
RAF
TO
DATE: September 7, 1949
wh
ALD
FROM : NA - Mr. Green
DCRfiles
SUBJECT: Tokyo's 529 of August 5, 1949
1f
Mr. Finn of POLAD was informed by Mr Eaton (Chief
Police Administrator of G-2, GHQ) that nd major ohanges
in the police syetem are planned. The only changes of
note in the Police Law now being worked out between G-2
and the Japanese Government would (a) permit towns and
villages to hold elections to decide whether they wished
to retain their autonomous police or to be brought under
the National Rural Police; (b) empower the Direotor General
of the NRP to direct the operations of all NRP units, not
merely those of the Headquarters of the NRP as at present.
These changes in the Police Law will probably be submitted
to the Diet at its special seseion this fall. Mr. Eaton
said no thought 1s being given to increasing the size of
Japan's police forces.
When asked whether the centralization contemplated
by the above revision would be sufficient to assure
proper police coordination, Mr. Eaton ventured that the
new decentralized syetem is only in its formative stage
and can not therefore be judged conclusively.
8
POLAD comments that strikes and disorders have greatly
abated over the last few weeks. It feels that the abate-
C1
ment is due to popular indignation at the series of recent
outbursts of discrder, which has scared off those who would
defy the public interest. Japanese law-enforcement agencies,
continues POLAD, are now taking vigorous action and it 1s
hoped they will soon be capable of hanaling any civil dis-
turbance.
Secvet
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
D0/R
FILED
AH
19
52
Cat

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.95)
dnta.rFE/JMA
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
HM
RAF
TO
: NA - Mr.
DATE: September 7, 1949
FROM : NA - Mr. Green N
DCR tiles
SUBJECT: Tokyo's 528 of August 5, 1949
An INS article appeared on August 1 in the Nippon Times
alleging that General Whitney, in a letter to Yoshida, turned
down the latter's police reorganization plan. General Whitney
was said to have further informed Yoehida that (a) GHQ views
the extreme right in Japan as a greater threat than the
extreme left, (b) there will be no relaxation of the purge
by categories, (c) it is not in Japan's interest to talk of
a separate peace treaty with the U.S.
Despite denials of this INS article by Yoshida and the
Government Section, POLAD comments that the Government Seotion
misses few opportunities to communicate precisely the above-
quoted views in its oral contacts with Japanese officials.
Mr. Ohno of the Foreign Office said as much in his confidential
account of the episode to POLAD. Yoshida's denial of the
story was evidently delivered at the behest of the Government
Seotion.
Yoshida has taken occasion to inform Mr. Sebald in
strict confidence of the widening gap between the Japanese
Government's and General Whitney's views on the police
problem, with particular reference to the relative respons-
ibilities of the Cabinet and of the National Publio Safety
Commission in the maintenance of public order. Yoshida
favors direct Cabinet responsibility for the maintenance
of public safety. He regards the National Public Safety
Commission a body of liberal political tinge, which, because
it was selected by a government now out of office should not
have control over the police. General Whitney, on the other
hand, is pressing for broad powers for the National Publio
Safety Commission as a desirable Commission-method means of
checking the polioe powere of the Government. The issue
promises to be a live one over the next few months.
Seret
00/R
A HW
53
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
Cat

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.94)
Voorheno
AUG 81009
TOP SECRET
P=TR
In reply refer to
FE
Lureangf
AR EASTERN AFFAIRSTA
AUG 20 1952
Dear Tracy:
SECPLTARY
partmet et State
I am takine the liberty of forwarding a brier
memorandum on the Japanese police establishment. It 1s
ho e: that this memoranaum, whioh suprlements relevant
Central
DC/R
This Document Must Be Returned To
sectlons of the consolidated progregs report of June 9.
1e9 on the 1mplement tion of Ns0 l3/3, w11l prove holp-
ful to you in preparation for your forthooming trip to.
Jr n. Should this prove to be the case, we may forwerd
to you aimilar memoranda on other Japanese polioy problme
whichn r ear to be urgent.
m
e will be most interestea to hear the resulte of
any 1ecusslone you h ve with General MaoArthur on the
1mrlement tion of Nsc 13/:. 1 1ecussion of the police
rroblen would be rarticularly timely in view or the re-
ports that the Youhid: rovernment is endeavoring to prepare
of the : iet, : rerumully urly thie futumn.
Sincerely yours,
alton Butterworth
Direotor for Far Eaetern Affaire
Enclosure:
Hemorandum.
 true copy of
the sined crit
TOP SECRET FILE
D
Inal
Ana
10
The Honorable
SEP17 1952
Truoy S. Voorhees,
FILED
Rev.
Asnistunt Seoretary of the Army.
Cat.
TOP SECRET
FE:NA:MGreen
FE:JHallison:mw
8/5/49

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.96)
TOP SECAET
AUG 819
In reply refer to
FE
Dear Tracy:
I am taking the liberty of forwarding a brief
memorandum on the Japanese police establishment. It is
hoped that this memorandum, which supplements relevant
seotions of the consolidated progress report of June 9,
1949 on the 1mplementation of Ns0 13/3, wil1 prove help-
ful to you in preparation for your fortheoming trip to
894.105/8-849
Japan. Should this prove to be the case, we may forward
to you similar memoranda on other Japanese poliey problems
which appear to be urgent.
We will be most interested to hear the results of
any discussions you have with General MacArthur on the
1mplementation of NSC 13/3. Disoussion of the poliee
problem would be partioularly timely in view of the re-
ports that the Yoshida government is endeavoring to prepare
legislation for revising the Police Bill at the next session
of the Diet, presumably early this Autumn.
Sincerely yours,
106013
W. Walton'Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
Enclosure:
TOP SECRET FiLE
Memorandum.
A true copy of
the signed-orng
ina1
The Honorable
894.105/8849
21K
AUG.5 1949
Traoy S. Voorhees,
Assistant Seoretary of the Army.
cl.shece
TOP SECRET
FE:NA:MGreen
FE:JMAllison:mw
8/5/49

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP BECRET
MENORANDUN
The Japanese Pelice Establishment
Paragraph 7 of NS0 13/3 recommends that: "The
Japanese police establishment, ineluding the soastal
patrol, should be strengthened by the re-enfereing and
re-equipping of the present forees, and by expanding
the present centrally direoted police organisation.
It appears from the consolidated report on the im-
plementation of NSC 13/3 forwarded under cover of the
Seeretary of Defense's letter of July 1, as well as
from SCAP's previous progress reports on this subjest,
that sfforts to strengthen the poliee foree have so far
been confined almost exolusively to the provision of
additional police small arms from United States surplus
supplies. There has been no indication thet the poliee
have received radio, automotive, erime-detestion and
other standard police equipment. There has been apparent
from these reports no recognition of the requirement
that the present centrally direeted police organisation
be expanded or of the more spesific resommendations sot
forth in an unaeknowledged State-Army eable to GINorE of
November 22, 1948, that: (a) an adequate mobile national
police be created, (b) a separate national police inves-
tigation agency be established, (e) prevision be made fer
coordinating the aotivities of all police units at all
times.
In the course of a teletype conference held on
July 18, l949, between representatives of the Department
of the Army and of G-2, OInOFE, the latter stated that
"no major organization, disposition, strength or high
level control shanges are anticipated in the police
forees"; that with sGaP's "intensive moral support" the
Japanese
TOP SECRET

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.96)
TOP SEGRET
一 2 -
Japanese police are capable of handling any disturbamees
without intervention by the oecupation forees; and that
"at no time during the oeoupation has it been found
neeessary for the Japanese police to take spesial pre»
cautions to proteet lines of cemmunieations, publie
utilities, key tunnels or bridges."
The foregoing statements would not appear to be mup-
ported by the facts of the situation in Japan. In Mareh
1949, the Public Safety Division of S0AP Neadquarters
reported that during the first two years of the eseupm-
tion (later figures had not been compiled) the Japanese
polive found 1t nesessary on 784 eecasions to request
assistance from the ocoupation foroes; and that mere
recent inatances, such as the disorder in Kobe when a
Korean mob ocoupied the prefeotural office and had to be
removed by the ocoupation forees, indieate that "the
police are not yet prepared to handle serious threats te
law and order." If, as alleged by G-2, the present
police establishment is adequate, it is diffioult to
understand the necessity for the recent agreement between
the National Rural Police Headquarters and the National
Fire Prevention Board to mobilise some twe million fire-
men for police duty in case of emergenoy; nor is it ex-
plained how the Japanese Cemmunist Party was eapable en
June 30, 1949 of seizing the Taira police station and
holding it for 18 hours.
In the Patter conneetion, an offioial report has
been received by the Department containing the ominous
statement that looal vigilante committees have been
organized by the townspeople of Taira and nine other som-
munities where it is felt that local units of the National
Rural Police are unable to deal with ineidents like the
Communist seizure of the Taira police station. Further-
more, the G-2 statement that "at no time has it been
necessary for the Japanese police to take spesial pre-
cautions to protect lines of communication" is questioned
in view of the assassination of Pailway President Shimoyama,
the fatal railway wreok at Mitaka and over 750 other ex-
emples of railway sabotage reported by the National Rural
Police since April 1 of this year.
Japanese public opinion (as expressed in publie
opinion surveys and editerial statements) recognises the
need for correeting weaknesses of the police syetem. The
ost
TOP SEORET

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.96)
TOP SECRET
3-
most signifieant expression of this opinion is to be
found in the Joint Resolution passed on May 17, 19e9 hy
a large majority of the Diet resommending immediate im
prevement in the coordinating and investigating maehimery
ef the police establishment. It is noted that Diet rese-
lutions are frequently used to exprees Diet sentiment on
matters on which the Japanese dere not legislate without
SCAP permission.
The changes in the police system whish the Depart-
ments of State and Army recommended last November to
CINCFE are ones whioh ovidently have the full suppert of
all major political foroes in Japan, except the Cemmmmiats
and possibly the Socialists. These moderate changes are
not in conflict with standing PEC policies, and, if pro-
perly presented, are believed likely to have the suppost
of friendly rEd countries concerned with the seaurity of
the northwest Pacific. The prinoipal objeetiem se mmy
changes in the police system will come from the Soviet
Union, since the police system as now constituted is wall
suited to Communist purposes.
As stated in a draft cable to CInCrE prepared in
the Department and eent to the Department of the Army
for clearance early in May (but never sent), it is be-
lieved essential that provision be made for broadening
the powers and responsibilities of the national polise
in order that there may be standardized polics enfores-
ment of national laws and coordination of the astivities
of all police units at all times. As already demons-
trated, lack of this provision invites sueh hazards as
poor cooperation between poliee units, exposurs of loeal
police to corruption, the infiltration of extremist
elements into local police units, inadequate finaneing,
poor training, and variable standards.
The danger of a revival of the Japanese police state
is not to be disregarded but it is felt that the best
way to avoid sueh a revival is to provide Japan with an
effeotive and respeeted modern police force well-grounded
in democratie polies mothods, notably the safegusrding
of civil liberties. On the ether hand, a revival of the
police state sould result from a police system so laeking
in effectiveness as to invite extremist elements to take
the law
TOP SEGRET

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.93)
TOPLEMET
the law into their own hands. It is balleved that, wades
solution whioh will insure observanee of the main temets
of the polise referm and which at the same time will pre-
vide maximum internal seeurity fer a disarmed Japan witm-
out dependanee on United States forses.
FE:NA:MGreen:aw
8/4/49
TOP SEORET

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN,SERVICE
OF TH
UNITEDSTATES
HAMERICA
Office of the United States
1943
rolitical Adviser for Japan
Tolyo, Septenber 3, 1949.
No. 610
SECT (For Department use only).
Subject: Yoshida- HacArthur Correspondence on lolice Law.
The Honeroble
The Secret y of Strto,
inshington.
Sir:
14 105/5 549 S07 7
I have the honor to refer to the Assion's despatch no. 528 of
Am ust , 1h), with regard to denial of a newspaper report of a
Headpartas co mmicntion snleged to have been made in July to the
I rime Minister regarding a pro posed reorgenization of the police;
and to enclose hereith copies of Ietters on the subject which in
fact were ehange ortly t ereafter, the letter fron Prime Hinister
Ks IDA having been under d e of August 6 mnd Ceneral HacARTUR's
2
reply being latel Ar ust . It vill be noted that the Prime ifinister
in his An at é lut ter takes the position that the ineptitude of the
Japanese elice s n de no std dhurin: recent nonths, that the
X
Govem went is working on the revision of he Lolice Law, that it is
desireble io plare t'e vrrion: pelice branches and umits under unified
control  direction,  that the rime Minister would appreciate
receiving Genoal Machrthourts dvice or me tions. In his reply of
August , meral chrthor   d thet in his opinion the failure of
coorlliuetion tetveen Lhe ntional Td local police units is not due to
the wnne af ti ir ersniz ation or definition; and he held this Head-
guarters ready ad all tines to advi se and assist in the progressive
iaplementation of the existing law.
With his letter General teArthur onclosed a copy of his letter
3/
of September 16, 1947, to rime inister KitAYiA on the subject of the
police, and in referring in the body of his August & letter to this
carlier co muniestien General MacArthur implied a reit erstion of the
views expressed in it.
This rebuff has not cnt irely diverted the Japmese Government fron
its detemainat ion to make changes in the police system. There are brief
but inco uplete press r ports of the coumencement in Tokyo on August 30
of a conference hetween representatives of local public police boards
and members of the Mational ublic Police Board at hich proposals were
S
894.105
made for the strengthening of the police. Details are not at present
SECRET FILE
available.
SECRT (For Department use only).
JUL 1 4 1952
FILED
3
6

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 610,
September 3, 1949.
-2-
available.
It vas apparently not intended that the correspondence
which is enclosed should be supplied to Diplomatic Section.
Copies subsequently reached us as a consequence of casual
enquiry in another section, to which carbons had been circulated.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1. Copy of lotter of August 6,
1949, Prime inister Shigeru
Yoshida to General Douglas
MacArtlur.
2. Copy of letter of August 8,
1949, General MacArthur to
the rime inist er.
3. Copy of letter of Sept ember 16,
1947, General HacArthur to
rrine Minister hatarana (enclosed
with bove).
370.1
CCoville:hh
rarchment nat to Department.
SECrT (For Department use only).

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET (For Department use
only).
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 610
dated Sept ember 3, 1949, from Office
of Urited States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, subject: "Yoshida-
MacArthur Correspondence on Police
Law".
CO.Y
August 6, 1949
TERHL THES FICE
TOTIO
y dear fere,
The inepitude of our police as has been denonstrated during
thest  st eventful tonths is a source of rave concern to my govern-
ent, vith bich, after ll, rusts the vltimate responsibility for
public security.
For on thring, th country'e police power has been split up into
m rou mits, lurge and srall, each of which is independent, isolated
and eften helpless. oreever, the cnt ire systan is detached from the
government.
To ake th itska unawey Irain case, he government must keep
its lands off. le are tpe in the dastk s to the progress of investi-
cetions by the poliee, to war nothing ot their plans for the future.
The Mast ional t lic Safety Comission tches the position that it is
none e' my busi, lthough they a re ready to let the final responsi-
Lility for any ocpurreuces afrectin public eace fall upon me as Prime
inist er.
Clearly sonething ought to be done. The overmment is working on
the revision of tbe  clice waw, but this vill take time.
Meanvdile he government must be prepared for any contingencies
that may srise uny day in these un ettled times.
What can be done to bring the police into closer liaison with gov-
ernment; to ceordinate the various police brenches and units, and to
place thel unler unified contrel ane direction, as occasion may demand,
for svift, vigorous and effective action? Here is an urgent question
that confronts e and my government.
I should be very rateful if you would be good enough to consider
the natt er and give me your advice or suggestion.
Yours sincerely,
(signed)
Shigeru Yoshida
General of the Army, Douglas MacArthur
Supreme Cormander for the Allied Fowers
Tokyo
SECRET (For Depertment use only).

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET (For Department use only).
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch
No. 610 dated September 3,
1949, from Office of the United
States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, subject: "Yoshida-
MacArthur Correspondence on
Police Law".
COPY
Tokyo, Japan
8 August 1949
Dear Hr. rime inister:
I . in receipt or rour Letter of August 6th pointing out
what you believe to be exi st in inadequacies in the matter of
police c ordinetion. I mediately following your last discussion
with ie on thi, subject, I directd that an exanination be made
of he ntire ice roble un ibse uently received the follow-
ing reyort fro  the eppropriate ageney of my staff:
"The otential effectiveness of the Japanese police has
been increased:
(1) Through the thorized loan of 125,000 United States
revolvers, necessar/ auunitLon end spare parts, 14, 000 of which
have been di st ributed wdth 42, 000 cheduled during the balance of
1949 one the remeinder durin the first half of 1950. Special in-
structors trainin, courses in use and care of these weapons have
Loon coupleted. Deliver of pparecinetely 150 notor vehicles has been
made to police force fron dpxnese industry curing the past year.
(e) Throu h th e cetarli shment of local, prefectural and
natio mh police training chools uhich trained e2,000 or S weeks or
longer in 1946 and vhiel ill cive in- ervice training to approximately
75,000 in 1949 pho recruit trainins for replacements required by
normal attrition. Special  ur es in formation und riot control train-
ing for cll forces have been complet ed.
(3) By obtaining complete cooperation of all Japanese agencies
concermed ith law enforcenent through detailed instructions issued by,
and conference between, police, procurators and officials of other
concerned Japenese govern ent ngeneies. No major organization, dis-
position, strength or high level control changes are anticipated in
the police forces. With SCk:'ts noral upport, the Japanese police
are capable of handling any enticipated internal disturbance without
0
intervention of Occupation forces.
(4) Current Japanese budget restrictions have not curtailed
the police training program or personnel strength. The pay of national
police is established under the National rersonnel Authority Act which
granted an increase to police in 1949. Municipal police are basically
paid on comparable or higher wage scale. No pay reduction for police
personnel is foreseen. Budget cuts materially curtailed the development
and acquisition
SECRET (For Department use only).

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despat ch No.
610, September 3, 1949.
-2-
and acquisition of required co munication equipment and motor trans-
portation. Full con sideration was given to these essentials but
budget liitations restricted acquisition in all departments of the
Japanese covernment."
On Sept ember 16, 1947, in reply to an inquiry from Mr. Katayama,
then ri me  inister, I gave my views in pome detail concerning de-
sira le eles ine Japanese police systen then under severe
criticis: eth ini le Japan and ithout. I an enclosing a copy of
this let ter in case the sane has not heen brought to your personal
attention.
The philosophy underlying the plan of reorganization therein
outlired,  nd ulequent ly in essential features embodied in Japanese
law, is dravm fron te evolutionary experience of the American people
but is no less pplieahle here than elsewhere where human freedom is
keystone to ti arch of social organization. Its great strength, co-
hesion, n! durability bas been drawm not fron centralized controls
descending from the seat of Federl Governnent, but rather from the
deep rooted concept of co mnity responsilility both in the management
of locel a fair: and throu h int errelated aet on in the support of the
Federal Govermment in te conduct of nwattonal affairs.
This is a coucept oaeshat new to ire Japanese people but one of
which they are sho ing an increasings unders anding and commendable
ahility fully to srasp and put inte pr etice. It is a concept which
will in ure ct the oh ectionable atures of the police organization
end practice in Japan': past dll be completely eralicated with little
or no langer of their fiture revival. It was, indeed, in recognition of
this anger of t revival of a centralized form of police bureaucracy
that the rolice Reorganization Law provides that the executive control
over the exercise o" t he police pover, both on the national and local
levels of governnent, be rought under the r st raining influence of
public safet, commi ssions coapo sed of representative and responsible
citizens appointed by the executives with legislative approval for fixed
terms of year. It is hoped that it ill tend to develop in the Japanese
people a full c msciousness of inlividual responsibility, so essential
to the crection o? n edifice capable of ithstanding the strains and
stresses of contenporar events.
I do not believe that the failure of coordinaticn between the national
and local police units of which you speak is due to the manner of thir or-
ganization or definition of their powers as provided by the law, but rather
is a question of the proper education of the personalities involved. This,
of course, requires time end evolution but, as pointed out in the report
above quot ed, progress is being made.
Needless to say, the appropriate agencies of this Headquarters re-
main ready at all tines to advise and assist in the progressive im-
plementation of the existing law.
Sincerely yours,
Inclosure: Letter
DOUGLAS MacARTHUR
dat ed 16 Sept ember 1947
The Prime Minister,
Tokyo, Japan.
SECRET (For Department use only).

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
SECHLT (For Department use only).
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No.
610 dated Sept ember 3, 1949,
from Office of the United States
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subject: "Yoshida-MacArthur
Correspondence on Police Law".
COPY
Tokyo, Japan
Sept. 16, 1947
Dear Mr. ri e inister:
I have given careful considerst on to your letter of Sept ember
3rd ns to the plan or the reorganization of the police system
submi tted therevith. I fully understand your difficulty in reaching
an acceptabie copromi se between the tvo divergent schools of thought
of hich vou pak--a comproaise which will prove adequately effective
to eet the reguisites for the preservation of law and order within
Japn, n? yet at the sane tine not impinge upen the ideal of human
liberty to  hic! the peeple of Japan are now committed, nor upon that
fun irmental principle indispensahle to a democratic society so aptly
stat ed in the Frea ble o" the Constit tion of Japan, "Government is a
cacred trust of the people, the anth ority for which is derived from
the people, nd lhe benefits of which are enjoyed by the people."
1 n in ll ccord ith the proposition that the realities of
the situ tion require the maint enance of a national rural police unit
to maintain law nd order in the mural areas and available to the
N. tional Goverrment to meet energency conditions with which police
forces  vaila' le to the several local governments may be unable ade-
quat el, o cope, nd your suggested increase in the overall authorized
police strength to 125, 0oo ten, to provide for such a national rural
police meets with my all aproval. I an not in accord, however,
ith the idea, nor the necessity for, lelaying the decentralization of
the police power now existing, as I feel that the preservation of that
power in its pre ent centralized form is wholly incompatable sic
with the spirit and int ent of the new Con stitution and inimical to
democratic growth.
It has been a dominant characteristic of nodern totalitarian
dictatorships, as ii was in Japan's feudalistic past, to establish and
maintain a strongly centralized police bureaucracy headed by a chief
executive officer beyond the reach of popular control. Indeed, the
strongest weapon of the military clique in Japan in the decade prior
to the war was the absolute authority exercised by the national govern-
ment over the thought police and the Kempei Tai, xtending down to
prefectural levels of governient. Throuh these media, the military were
ena.led to spread a net prk of political espionage, suppress freedom
of speech, of assembly, and even of thought, and by means of tyrannical
oppression to degrade the dignity of the individual. Japan was thus
in the fullest sense a police state.
It is in reconition of this condition that the police systen must be
so reorganized as to provide what you so clearly describe in your letter
as a "fundanental remedy of the misuse of the police by the state power
as in the past." In the achievement of this objective, the potentiality
SCRET (For Department use only).
of a police

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's Despat ch
No. 610 dated Septeaber 3,
1949.
-2-
of a police state inherent in centralized control must scrupulously
be avoided. It should never again be possible for anti-democratic
Iment, either of the oxtreme right or the extreme left, to enmesh
the freedom of the people in a web of police terrorism.
This basic pbjective cunest be accomplished by the thorough
dec ntralization of the police system in accordance with the principle
 local t onomy eaho ied in the Constitution. Each city and town
shoul  repon i le for the pre servation of law and order within
it oun ries rouh i on local police systen independent of the
central coverument nd headed ly  police chief to be appointed and
recovable by a conmiosion co posed of three civilian members appointed
by the tyor of the city or town ith the consent of the local assembly
and holding office or a fixed term of years. At the prefectural level
there should also be a corresponding commission sinilarly appointed
whicl will exercise ope ational control over the national rural police
operating ithin the boun  ries of that prefecture, reserving to the
national government uhinistr tive muthority over such national rural
police Wierever stitioned.
Such a reformation of the Japanese police systen would be in con-
sonance ith the general pattern of the reorganization of the Japanese
governmental structure, integrating police officials and services as
agencies of the people st the appropriate levels of government. Action
toward such end should proceed inmediately upon enactment of the ap
propriate statute.
The nat ional overnnent should allocate the necessary funds until
such time as locel finamcing is possible. So long as it is necessary
for the n tional overnnent to nake allocat ions of funds, the strength
of the police in the various localities should renain fixed at the
present muaber, hut after provisions have been made for the localities
to assune the financial  urden, the responsibility for determining the
necessary nuaters within their respective borders should belong to the
cities ani towns, in accordance vith locel requirements.
The necessary  egi lation should, of course, be enacted at the
present session of the Diet. If vigorously prosecuted, I believe that
completion ef the plan may be accomplished ithin a period of ninety
days thereafter.
As to an appropriate organization on the national level, I believe
that there should be created directly under the authority of the Cabinet
a Fublic Safety Commi sion composed of five members who have not been
career officials, either in the police cr the civil service. Such com-
mission should be appointed by the Frime linister, ith the consent of
the Diet, and should hold office for a fixed term of years.
To prevent the resurgence in disguised form of a centrally con-
trolled national police network no channel of command should exist between
the national rural police unit and the local police forces, but technical
channels of communication should, of course, be permitted in the interest
of overall efficiency and to facilitate a relationship of mutual assist-
ance, liaison and coordination. The intervention by the national govern-
ment into control over prefectural or local police affairs should tempo-
rarily be provided for, however, in the event of a national emergency
SECRET (For Department use only).
when, upon

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's Despat ch No.
610 dated September 3,
1949.
-3-
vhen, upon the poconmendation of the National Public Safety Commission,
the rine inister ight assume operational control over prefectural
units of the national mural police force, mubject to ratification by
the Diet ithin twenty de. In this way the authority of the prefectural
gov-rnor ay le protected sainst arbitrary police interference by the
nati ona! ov mment, t the sate time affording adequate safeguard for
the nationel interest.
In the past, one of the ill-conceived aspect: of the Japanese
police systen as the exercise  y police officials of nunerous ad-
inistrative funetions not elated to the t sk of investigation and
erprehension of criminals or he preservation of public order. All
such functions shoul be exercised by non-police represent atives of
the rtie mlar intstry having re ponsibility for such natters, and
vherever proper hon l: be decentralized to local public entities "the
right io anage their property, a"Fairs and adhinistration."
Closely  lated to the lav enforcenent process is, as you have
spocificslly pointed out in your letter, the subject of reform in the
judicil adini t rt ive syste. Under the Constitution of Japan, the
Suprale Court is no  est ed vith +he absinistration of judicial affairs
an! rule-making power. With the cstablishment of an independent judiciary,
the inistry of Ju tice no longer is  pon itle for the determination of
ruies of procedure ni of praclice, the intemal discipline of the courts,
or other ttributes of the judiciel process. toreover, ith the diminution
of the role of the procuratore in the athainistration of justice and their
sthordin at ion to the rule-making power o? the Supreme Court, the basic
attributen o" the procurat orial stea underthe finistry of Justice
have been redically revised.
un the other bend, to the Sabinet, us tle executive branch of the
ovem ent, i: expre ssly lelegated the p pon ibility for executing the
provisions of the Const itution n? of the laws enacted by the Nat ional
Diet, s well as for deturminin questions of ammesty, conmutation of
punishment, and rontoration of right. To reflect adequately this con-
stitutienal sepe ation of power, it voull seen desirable that the
Ministry of Justice, ithin e uthority ever adjudicative funetions
has been trditionaily interuinaed with seeutive power, be replaced
by an ttorney Conurml, sitting in the Cabinet as a rtinister of State
and serving s the chief legal advi ser to the executive branch of the
covemment.
To dminist er the laws effectively requires the closest coordination
between police officials charged with the apprehension of offenders against
the national laws, and public attorneys charged ith the prosecution
thereof. The est blishment of an Attorney General's Office with the re-
sponsibility of coaducting all litigation, criminal and civil, in which
the government has a direct interest, end of furnishing all legal advice
to the Prime inister and other Hinisters of State in the discharge of
their duties, would I believe provide a nechanisn for such close coordina-
tion, facilitate the faithful execution of the laws, and support the
independence of the judiciary as the bulwark of the liberties of the
people. Consistent with this concept of an Attorney General, the present
Legislative Bureau of the Cabinet can be dispensed with in the interest
of governmental efficiency and economy.
Within the
SECRET (For Department use only).

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
610, September 3, 1949.
-4-
Within the franework of the plan outlined in your letter, modified
in the nanner I have inlicated, I feel confident that a law enforcement
systen may be evolved in Japan hich will satisfy all requirements of
public safety, ich vill provide for the definitive separation of the
adiinistrative fron the judicial process, and which at the same time
will coaply reticulously ith the underlying principles of the Consti-
tution. In this connection it should be borne in mind that, in the
final analysis, police power in the preservation of law and order in a
leocratie sosiety does net at in its aximun strength through oppressive
control,  osed upon the people fronm ahove, but rather does it find in-
initely rater strength in the relntionship of e servant of, and an-
swerabl directly to, e people. Thereby, and thereby alone, may it
encourage es cet for the people's laws through confidence and pat ernal-
istic pride in t police  the law onforcement agency of the people
the eselves.
I am opeful that the legislation necessary to give effect to those
programs i: the  orcanizal ion of governnent can be conpleted in time
for consideretier at the current seasion of the National Diet. To such
end do not  mitste to call pon this ieadquarters for any assistance
which you believe vo ld be ielpful.
Sincerely yours,
DOUGLAS HaCARTHUR
The rrime inister
Tokyo, Japan
SECRUT (For Department use only).

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.96)
Newsweek
NEWSWEEK BUILDING · BROADWAY AND 42ND STREET
NEW YORK 18
Saptember 11, 1949
Ur. . Walton Butterworth, Director
Fer Eastern Affairs
Department of State
,D. C.
Dear ir. Butterworth:
Hany thanks or your kind letter of September 6. I should be
coming to Washinyton apain in a few weeks and I will of course get
894.
in touch with you before that, so that we can get together.
I attach conies of some coures ondence rom r. Pakenham, our
Cokyo ureau C ie', in w ich you might be interested, since it deals
105
with the Jananese po ice orce.
With best regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
Hanyf.Keam
Harry F. Wern
Foreign Editor
:sr
Enclosure
ILE
0C1121961
2
453195
T H E
M A G A Z I N E
O F
N E W S
S I G N I F I C A N C E

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.96)
STAND
TO
FE- Mr. Butterworth
DIRECTOR
FROM
NA - Mr. Green My.
SUBJECT:
Comments on Mr. Kern's Letter (Attached)
Mr. Pakenham's random thoughts about the inadequacies
of the Japanese police establishment are to the point.
The facte he cites in the Taira Incident provide an
excellent illustration of the oritical state of Japanese
police transportation. As for his reference to GHQ's
fear of setting up a Japanese police intelligence system,
it should be pointed out that this 1s a function largely
exercised by G-2 today. There would certainly appear to
be a need for training the Japanese now in democratic but
effective intelligence procedures so that they will not
lack an essential security safeguard in the post-treaty
period.
Fw
Mr. Pakenham believes there may be a serioue lack
of cooperation between the national and local police
units in time of national emergency. Actually this problem
1s more critical in non-emergency periods since the national
police have full powers to control all police units during
emergency periode. In normal times,the overdecentralized
police system gives rise to lack of coordination, slow
reactione to public disorder, inadequate lines of command
end police immobility.
7
5
OCT121961
FE:NA:MGreen/pm
453196

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
Under the old system the whole Jananese police force was a single unit operated
by the, now abolished, Home Office. On liarch 7, 1948, it was separated into two
autonomous groups-- lunicinal and National Rural Police. Under the old system, together
with the locally kept Koseki (family registers), in which everything was properly
recorded (births, marriages, deaths, changes o? residence, etc.) it could be said that
few if any criminals could get away for the simple reason that any odd vagrant, or
even strangers registering for a night in a hotel, could be traced immediately back to
their residential town where a comolete record was available for the asking. Also,
police called so re ularly at houses o get the dirt, usually under the mask of paternal
interest in the peoples' welfare, that throughout Janan women and children referred to
them as the ō.mawari (the honorable-one-who-comes-around). Though more independent
spirits, liberals, etc., did suffer and rail against them, most dirty work (under the
military revime) was done by the Kenpei (Gendarmerie), who were independent of the
police, under the War Denartment, and, in the main, the mass of lower class people
seem to have relied on and respected then. The standard of honesty (or, probably,
interity) apoears to have been fairly high, they would not accept bribes or even
gratuities, and their main eskness seems to have been narrow-mindedness and the usual
bureaucratic pid l'ng on a rand scale.
Though, naturally, he war and its aftermath (particularly the academic side) has
caused a rreat deterioration in the police morale, people are only too lad to blame
this on the chan ed system--which in rural communities, costs them more while reducing
their security (somethin: the average Japanese has always expected--and felt he got,
though he seldom did--from the overnment).
Under the new set-up the National Rural Police have 30,O00 and the locally
Autonomous : unicipal rolice, 95,O00. The country people feel (a) the proportion is
badly against them thourh (b) the mural communities (and small municipalities) cannot
afford the cost and (c) se arating the two makes it too casy for bad hats from cities
and smaller towns to seek re ure in the country where the police have no track of them.
In other words, they feel that their traditional security (which they have enjoyed
since Tyeyasu's day, in fact, and from lon: before that in theory) has been undermined.
In t e small rural units, also, there is not +he slightest chance of a man getting
oromotion--hence he cannot have even the snoll ambition he was once permitted under the
national scheme under wh ch loca ly enlisted cops were nown to et up in the Home
Office and even becam: prefectural covernors.
At every point I ran up against the com lete misunderstanding by Japanese of the
first notions of "Democracy". They cannot reconcile de-mo-ku-ra-shi and enyone having
any authority on one hand and yet cannot get out of the habit o: bowin: obsequiously
to any stray cop who happens clong. Answerin" their questions on this point was no
easy job. "Could you, a newspa er reporter" (pretty low class stuf in Japan) "attend
a dinner with Anerican police as fellow uests?" -- "We understand in America and
England police may not enter a house without an order from above. If one should want
to what could you do? It would be impolite to refuse."
And probably the reat st fear--which they cannot define fully because they cannot
define "Communism"--is that the police force wi 1 become Communist. The party has a
"Police Democratization Section" and members of the committee make rural tours urging
young reds to apply for admission to the colice. As these youngsters are generally the
bad boys oi the community, the prospect is not pleasing as the locel forces will then
use Communist Party blacinail, etc., tactics and will, natural y, be on the side of the
insurgents when the (quite expected) rash of troubles occurs.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The day after this visit, the Taira affair started. At the risk of your having
4
to read twice told tales: Taira is a small town about half way between Tokyo and
Sendai, near the sea. The local police ordered the removal of a Communist poster
from the Rr. station. The reds, in Japanese fashion, took this for a personal insult,
attacked the police station, beat up several cops, and held the rest inside the building
(under threat of burning the place dovn.) Hurry calls were sent out to Koriyama (about
30 miles off) bt, due to inmobility, it took & hours for reinforcements to arrive and
relieve their pals. In the meantime the mob concentrated in Koriyama and attacked the
police station there. While the mob moved at will in trucks provided ahead of time,
the p lice had to make hand-t: -mouth improvisations. Many of the red rr. workers
travelled by train an when they encountered another train carrying policemen they
threw the driver over an embankent. Anyhow, the incident seemed to prove (to the
Comnunists as well as the authorities) that both intelligence and mobility are seriously
lacking.
Meanwhile, all over the country had occurred daily abortive rr. sabotage attempts.
Rocks, explosives, etc., placed on lines, bolts removed, etc. None of them have come
of, seeming to point to a "nerves" canpaign to create aporehension among workers and
travel ers. In every case just-in-time warnings reached the right person.
By this time, stories of the behaviour o? the first (Takasago Maru) batch of re-
pa riates were coming ont and, suddenly, the temper of upper-lower and middle class
people altered. I was in a denartment store picking up some trash cor the house and
the counter-jumper asked me what Communists believed in. My yard man, an aged codger
who has worked on this pronerty for years, did the same thing. Apparently they had not
the faintest idea what it was all about. (I take a little pride in anticipating this
phenomenon. Of ccurse, it's always easy to get directly interested parties to criticise
occupation and index its errors--in which they're personally interested. But the mass
of peonle keep their trans shut on the subject, pt up with it and wait. This repats
business has been different. They ignored their friends and families, pushed aside the
usual roun of song-singing kids and went into their own "Red Flag" and "Internationale"
act. They deliberately avoided all the little interchanges of age-old, meaningless
phrases on oeting. They interfered in matters about which they knew nothing. The
peepul were honestly shocked. Japanese had proved themselves vulnerable to foreign in-
fluence and were behaving like foreigners--Russians, British, Americans....) Now
they're beginning to talk of the horrible things that the Communist faith includes.
On July2nd, Japanese sources turned up two scraps of pro hecy: (a) That there was
a definite werking understanding bet een GH@ and Yoshida's government about action to
be taken in case of widespread strikes tc., on the 7th or in connection with the first
firing of Rr. workers under the economy provisions. (This program provided for 30,700
lay-offs on the 4th July and the balance--64,385--to take place between the 15th and
20th). (b) MacArthur was to issue his "sternest" rebuke to the Communist Party in the
4th July message.
(b) came of with ouite an effective bang, however, I could get no confirmation of
(a) from our side. SCAP's statement was released on the evening o' the 3rd and on the
4th the big parade took place. During the latter afternoon I was in ormed by a native
source that (whether the agreement had been worked out or not) he authorities had
deliberately allowed Communist H? to et wind of plans afoot, inclu ing the availability
of oc upati n personnel to take over the Rr's and other utilities in case of trouble and
that, as a result, all action was being called off.
The net result of all this has been a definite anti-Communist reaction by the mass
of people. Since lacA's 4th July statement the Japanese press has, for the first time,
started assailin@ and -howing them up, using the various incidents related above as a

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
The "wildcat" strikes o Govt. Rr. Workers' Union, though supposedly anticipating
the dismissals due a few wecks later, were practise efforts to give new local leaders
experience and, also, to test out what the police were capable of doing. SCAP ordered them
called off but in passing on the order the nion Central Struggle Committee made no
bones about its attitude, orderin~ locals and members to gird their loins for further
action.
At that time, early June, there was a daily increasing tenseness and it seemed to
be generally reconised tha. the Comnunists were plan ing a nationwide tie-up on or
abou† July 7th.
*****
It apnears to me that until and durin" this time the Japanese public were
entirely ignorant and unconscious o the meaning of Communism and the intent of the
Communists. I fail to ind anywhere evidence of any attempt at counter-Communist
pr paganda. The average (outside of govt. em loyees, bureaucrats, etc.) man-on-the-
street exnressed only too vell the underlyin" princinles o? democracy (apparently under-
stood for once) and rerarded them as mer ly another party competing for the government
and as such entitled, at least, to he indi  erence genera ly accorded other parties.
Again and again I reneat: rarties as such mean nothing tc the Jaanese m-o-t-s and less
to his recently enfranchised missus. I feel that the events of the last six weeks have
altered this in a most significant manner.
Various people I was seeing regularly--Foreign Office, Finance Ministry, PM's
residence, Police (Tokyo) and ! usehold--reneated the notion: "We are in the eve of
revolution atmosphere."
The evening of June 29th (Wed.), about 11: 30, there was a loud knocking on my door
and bell-ringing. I vent out to ind my Landlord, accompan ed by a police superinten-
dant. What he said, in e? ect, was that it is ge erally held in o ficial circles that
sericus trouble is due here in the all. October in Korea, November in Japan. As it
stands presently, the police force is entirely unprepared to handle it. The shortcoming
of the new establishments se ms to be  the tactical use of police when sabotage and
lccal outbreaks become general. At present he elt that should the scheduled July 7th
troubles go throuch they might be so successful that the Communists would extend them.
(The first batch of Pr. dismissals--3?,700--were scheduled for July 4th.)
In an emergency, both denartments (National Rural and Local Autonomous cops) will
come under the direction of the R chiefs. Jealousy between the two organizations may
result in non-cooperation. They are not too frightened o this, however, because even
if they do play ball they have no proper provisions for mobility. Trucks for trans-
porting rein orcenents are in a shockin state. What is needed seems to be a few properly
treined and properly eau pped lying souads. Under present conditions, scratch odd-lots
of immediately off-duty sad sacks ould be all available.
A more important complaint is the complete lack of police intelligence, leaving the
initiative with the Communists. **** This, of course, is a tricky point. When talking
about a corns devoted to gleaning intelligence, the average Japanese imnediately says
"FBI". It would, naturally, include active spies who would introduce themselves into the
Communist Party, unions, etc. To the Cccupation the whole things smacks of the old
ToKKOTAI ("Thought Control") gang and is anathema. Liberal Japanese, feel the need of
intelligence but shudder at the thought o? the TOkko bein: revived and extending beyond
the immediate reason for its organization.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
peg and underlining repatriates behaviour as each new case occurs. They have had a
very definite set-back in public opinion and, I am told, in actual strength.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.90)
SECRET
Nwfs
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
419
TO
: NA - Mr. Bohd
DATE: September 19, 1949
BAF
dup!
SUBJECT: Tokyo'B €10 df September 3, 1949
A
This despatch encloses copies of an exchange of letters
file
between Yoshida and SCAP anent a reorganization of the
Japaneee police.
ble
Yoshida tock the position that the ineptitude of the
police, demonstrated in recent disorders, wells from excessive
decentralization ae well as from complete police autonomy
from Cabinet control. He states that the Japanese Government
is working on a revision of the Police Law with a view to
R
Central
DC/R
 Document Must Be Returnou 
improving the machinery for coordinating the various poli
units. SCap's advice and suggestions are invited.
SCAP's reply is a flat rejection of Yoshida'& thesis.
Resorting to his familiar, well-worn arguments, SCAp adduce
that the police now have adequate pistols and in-service
training. He suggests that no changes in the strength, dis-
position or organization of the police will be entertained.
"With SCAp's support", the latter continues, "the Japenese
police are capable of handling any anticipated internal dis-
turbance without intervention of occupation forces".
POLAD comments that this rebuff has not entirely diverted
the Japanese Government from its determination to make changes
in the police system. There are indications that the police (
191
authorities are working on changes in the Police Law for sub-
mission at the next Diet session.
O
5
JUL 15 1952
DC/R
AH
X 10018
SECRET

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
: NA - Mr. Marshall Green
DATE:
September 22, 1949
FROM : DRF - Richard L. Sneider
SUBJECT:
Comments on Mr. Kern's Letter.
1. The fear of Communist infiltration seeme to be overestimated since
there has been increasing awareness and vigilance about this problem and
the police are being indoctrinated against Communism.
2. The problem of cooperation between the two police forces during a
state of national emergency is not too serious since the national police
will have full powers to control local police during this period. The
critical problem is their lack of cooperation in non-emergency periods,
when inter-organizational jealougies, police immobility, the slow reaction
of the police to public disorder, and inadequate lines of communication,
8
liaison and command all contribute to inadequate control over public
5
disorders.
3. Actually the function of police intelligence has been exercimed
by the occupation -- G-2 CIS specifically. There certainly is a need
for training the Japanese in US intelligence procedures, in juxteposition
to pre-occupation Japanese methods, during the pre-treaty period.
-224
4. The facts cited in the TAIRA incident are the best substantiation
available of the critical state of Japenese police transportation.
RM/R
Anal
CONFIDENTIAL
cat.
453195

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.94)
NR 2/12/5! atth
TOP SECRET
DATE: October
FROM : FE - Mr. Merohant AJ
SUBJECT: Japanese Police
With reference to Mr. Kennan's note to you on this
subject, I am attaching a letter sent to Under Seeretary
4.105/10
Voorhees just prior to his recent trip to Japan. The
Must Be Roturned
enclosure of this letter does not lack for candor in
expressing the views of FE on the inadequacy of the
present Japanese police establishment. I dare say that
if SCAP allows any major changes in the Japanese poliee
it will be at his own initiative, time and pace; and that
any efforts on our part will be unavailing unless we
propose to take drastic measures to bring SCAP into
line.
Please return the attachments.
FE - Mr. Musdaur
NA - Mr. Gran
I gather foom the above that you
doi't think it woithwkile to kamp prissing
the Aomy on the police problacn.
DC/R
Praliging That Iahn trespassning nto
7
The forbisden gresn prestures of oparations
I vanture the prap That, in miy opinion
ReY
This issue is inpditant rnough- as
Cat.
usto act at least as custodrans of the 
Aruy's cousciance. Even thanugh tr Voorhes
wh
apparently quotes Mactitur rathert
FE:NA:MGreen/pm
Buttrwroith to the press.
TOP SECRET
DEC 1 2 1956
FILED
319046

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.85)
NA-
FE -Mr Marchant
De ywnt
Do your NA boyswautto pick on.
JD.
up an this?
7
A..
V
lijspings - bott of wluch are
from the same edition of the
H. if. Zuines - To squeeze an
ane wer aut of the Army.
about the Jap. police?
SFK.
FAR EASTERR AFFAID
1949
DIMRCTOR

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
34
L
BURDENS OF JAPAN
have been paying reparations to
Japan," amounting in the four
years since the surrender to about
UPON U.S. WEIGHED
$1,900,000,000, Mr. Voorhees told
the Japanese that the United
States had "no ulterior motives"
in its rehabilitation program for
this country. The United States
Voorhees in Tokyo Visit Sifts
was "seeking no domination" and
Prospect of Easing Relief Aid
the Army was "not building any
empire," he said.
—Affirms MacArthur Status
Regarding the security outlook
in Japan, Mr. Voorhees said Gen-
eral MacArthur had assured him
the Japanese police had been much
By LINDESAY PARROTT
strengthened in training and equip-
Spectal to Tet New Yo Tts.
ment, so there was no need for
TOKYO. Sept. 10 -Tracy S.
major reinforcements to protect
Voorhees, Under-Secretary of the
the country against the Commu-
Army. reiterated today that his nists. The Japanese police were
purpose in coming here for con- now in position, Mr. Voorhees said
General MacArthur told him, to
versations at Gen. Douglas Mac-
controt any internal disorders with
Arthur's headquarters was to im-
"the moral support of the Occu-
prove liais
the Supreme
pation.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
L
THE NEW YORK TIMES, SUND
JAPANESE MAY ASK
drawal and, second, that certain
population of about 1,500 000. haa in vic
dangers will arise.
only 1,500 policemen spread aver often
U.S. TO EXTEND RULE
In Tochigi, for example, Ameri-
an area of 6.500.000 square kilo- Amer
can civil affairs officers several
meters. More than half of them
couns
are unarmed and communications
Whet
times have been compelled to step
new york
and transportation facilities are al-
the ci
in to settle differences between
most entirely lacking.
fectu
Consider Bid for Continuing
prefectural and local officials and
Native Communists and consist-
has.c
the farmers, who make up the ma-
ent adherents in Tochigi number
Wh
at its
Civil Affairs Supervision—
jor part of the community, over
only about 5,000, it is estimated,
Tochi
the collection of quota grains and
but the district lies close to the
tures
Moves by Reds Feared
BEST
the payment of taxes. Prefectural
Tokyo-Yokahama area, where the
quest
officials are frankly doubtful of
Communists boast their greatest
it ap
their ability to handle these tasks
strength. Since the Communists
esting
Speciai to Thr Nzw Yozk linzs.
unaided, enjoying, as they do, lit-
are known to have made wide-
since
UTSUNOMIYA, Japan, Sept. 10
tle prestige in their own commu-
spread use of the maneuver of "col-
the p
—Gen. Douglas MacArthur's head-
nities.
onizing" local districts in which
omy
quarters may be petitioned soon to
Even more feared by local offi-
they wish to cause outbreaks, the
tion,
reverse the decision wiping out
cials, in this district at least, is a
police situation is considered here
peace
military government in forty-five
possible resurgence of Communist
to be a somewhat dangerous one.
violence after Dec. 31. This has
Local officials are inclined to be-
Japanese prefectures and to main-
been in abeyance recently. after
lieve that the presence, on the
tain some form of American su-
the sharp defeat suffered by the
scene, even of small American mil-
pervision over local civil affairs, at
left in its fight against the Gov-
itary contingents, in uniform, has
least on a reduced scale.
ernment's retrenchment program.
exercised a restraining effect on
This statement was made in an
Shoi Murakami, director of po-
the spread of Communist ideas
interview by Jukichi Kodaira. :ov-
lice here. pointed out, however,
among the country population.
ernor of Tochigi Prefecture, of
that Tochigi prefecture, with a
Japanese who might have joined
which this city is the seat. The
governor asserted that he would
Enjoy the Luxury of
make a proposal for the petition at
a First Class Hotel!
a conference of prefectural chiefs
that will be called by Premier
Here is gracious living! Superb
Shigeru Yoshida.
skyscraper hotel overlooking
Governor Kodaira said that he
magnificent Central Park...
already had consulted on the pro-
colorful rooms-with-a-view...
posal with the chief executives of
theatres, Radio City, Fifth Ave-
several other prefectures, who had
assured him of their support.
nue shops at your doorstep.
Should his view be adopted by the
Choicereams with private bath, radie frem
conference, he said that it would
$400
be presented to the Allied Supreme
Command as a resolution of the
t.single
deuble
meeting.
EXTENDED STAYS INVITED
Although. according to Allied
sources, little possibility exists of
Write for beoklet T or phone CI 7-7000
any modification in the policy of
BARBIZON-PLAZA
abolishing local civil affairs teams
in the prefectures by the year's
end, Mr. Kodaira's proposal illus-
S8th ST. AT Gth AVENUE, N. Y.
trates the stand held by some local
Japanege officials; first, that their
tasks will be made considerably
more difficult by the Allied with-

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
NA
TOP SECRET
In reply refer to
FE
Dear Tracy:
I am takin the liberty of forwarding a brief
memorandum on the Jaranese rolice establishment. It 1s
ho ed that this memorandum, which sunolements relevant
sections of th- consolidated progress rerort of June 9,
1949 on the 1mrlementation of NS0 13/3, wil1 orove help-
ful to you in orenaration for your forthcoming trin to
Janan. Shoulc this prove to b the case, we may forward
to you similar memoranda on other Jarnese colicy nroblems
which arpear to be urgent.
We will be mort inter- sted to hear the results of
any discussions you have with General Macirthur on the
1mplementation of NSC l3/3. Discus ion of the police
roblem woul be articularly tinely in view of the re-
ports that the Yoshida government is enceavoring to prepare
legislation for revising the Police Bill at the next session
of the Diet, presumably unrly this Autumn.
Sincerely yours.
W. walton Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
Enclosure:
Memoranaum.
The Honorable
Tracy S. Voorhees,
Assistant Secr tary of the Army.
FE:NA:MGreen
TOP SECRET
FE:JMAllison:mw
8/5/49

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.95)
NR
2/12/51
TOP SECRZT
KEMOBANDUM
The Japenemm Police stablishment
Paregreph 7 of n8c 15/3 recommends that: "The
Jepanese poliee establiehment, ineluding the coestal
patrol, should be etrengthened by the re-enfereing end
re-equipping of the prenent forees, and by exnanding
the present centrally directed police orgenisation."
It appears from the consolidsted report on the im-
plementation of  sC 15/5 forwarded under cover of the
Seeretery of Defenee's letter of July l, as well me
from sCar's previous promress reports or thie subjeet,
that efforts to strergthen the poliee foree have so far
been confined almost exolusively to the provieion of
additionel police emell arme from United Stetes surplus
supplies. There hes been no indicetion thet the poliee
have received redio, mutomotive, erime-deteetion and
other etenderd pollee equipment. There hes been epparent
from thess reporte no reeognition of the requirement
that the present centrally direeted polise organization
be expended or of the more specific recommendetlons set
forth in en unmeknowledged State-Army seble to CInOrs of
Hovember 2?, l940, that: (a) an sdequate mobile national
police be ereated, (b) n seperste pational police invem-
tigetion ngenoy be established, (c) provision be made for
coordinating the mativities of ell pnliee unite at all
times.
In the course of s teletype conferenoe held on
July 19, 1949, between representetives of the Department
of the Army and of S-2, OInorE, the latter etated that
"no mmjor organization, disposition, strength or high
level contrel shenges ere anticipated in the police
foroes"; that with sCa"'s "inteneive moral support" the
Jepenese
TOP SEGRET

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.93)
TOP SECBET
一9一
Japmnese polioe are capable of handling any dieturbanees
without intervention by the pocupation forees: and that
"at no time during the oeoupatlon has 1t been found
neeemsmry for the Jepanese police to take speolal pre-
cmutlons to proteet iines of communiomtlons, publio
utllitiee, key tunnele or bridges.
The foregoing statemente would not appeer to be aup-
ported by the feets of the situstion in Japen. In Meroh
1949, the Publie Safety Division of SCar Mesaquartere
reported that during the firet two yenre of the oeoupa-
tion (later flgures hed not been compiled) the Japmneee
pollee round 1t neoessary on 7A4 foossions to request
mssistenee from the oeoupmtlon forces; and that more
recent instmnces, suoh as the disorder in Kobe when a
Korean moh pocunied the prefecturnl ofrice and had to be
removed by the ocoupstion foroes, indioste that "the
poliee are not yet prepared to handle serioue thrente to
lew and order." If, ne sl'eged by -?. the present
pollce esteblishment is edequate, it ls diffioult to
underetend the necoamity for the recent mgreement between
the atlonal Furml Polioe Beedeuartere snd the etional
ire Prevention Board o mobilize mome two millien fire-
men for polioe duty in case o? emergenoy: nor is it ex-
plained how the Jepenese Communlst Prty Wes capable on
June 30, 1949 of selzing the Taire police station and
holding it for 18 hours.
In the latter gon ection, en ofrinisl report hae
been received by the Department conteining the ominous
statement that looel vigilante committees heve been
organized hy the townspeople of mirs and nine other eom-
munitise where it is felt thet looml unite of the Watlonal
Bural Police are unable to deml with ineidents like the
Communist seixure of the Taire police station. Purther-
more. the O-2 stetement thet "mt no time hes it been
necessary for the Japenese pollcs to take special pre-
cautions to protect lines of pommunlestion" is questioned
in view of the mssmssinetion of rallwey President Shimoyema,
the fatel railway wreek st Witakn and over 750 other ex-
amplee of rallway sabotage reported by the Netionel nurel
Police since April 1 of this yemr.
Japanese publie opinion (as expreseed in publie
opinion surveys and editorisl etatements) reeognizes the
need for correetins weeknernes of the police syetem. The
mo et
TOP SECRET

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.93)
TOP BKORET
一 3 -
mont signifieent expreasion of this opinion is to be
found in the Joint esolution pessed on Mey 17, 1949 by
a lorge mejority of the Diet reoommending immediate im-
provement in the coordineting end investigating meehinery
of the police establishmont. It is moted that Diet reso-
lutione are freguently used to sxpress Diet sentiment on
mattere on which the Jspanese dere not legielete without
aCa permiesion.
The changes in the polloe syetem which the Depart-
ments of tate snd Army renommended lest November to
CI CF. ere ones which evidently heve the full support of
ell mejor politieal forces in Jepan, except the Communiats
and ponsibly the pcisliete. These moderate ohenges are
not in corfliet with standing ric rolioles, mnd, if pro-
perly presented, ere helieved likely to heve the support
of friendly wic countries concerned with the weewrity of
the northwest moific. he prineipml objeotion to mny
changes in the poliee syetem will pome from the Sovlet
Union, wince the pollee system ae now constituted is well
suited to Communist nursoses.
as stated in s draft cable to Cinor prepured in
the Department and sent to the epe tment of the Army
for oleeranoe early in ey (but never sent), it is be-
lieved eseentlal that provieion be m de for broedening
the powers and responsibilities of the nationel poliee
in order thet there may be stenderdized police enforee-
ment of natinnsl laws and coordinntion of the setivities
of sll poliee unite at all times. As slready demons-
trated, leck of this mrovieian invites such hezerds me
poor cooperation between poliee unitr, exromure of loeml
poliee to corruption, the infiltretion of extremlst
elements into losel police units, inedequete finameing,
poor trainins, end variuble standerde.
The danger of a revivel of the Jananese poliee state
is not to be disremarded but it is felt thet the best
way to evoid suoh e revival is to provide Japen with an
effeetive and raspeeted modern polioe foree well-grounded
in demucretic poliee methode, motably the sefeguerding
of civil liberties. On the other hand, s revival of the
police etete could result from a poliee syatew so laeking
in effestivenesm me to invite extremist elements to take
the 1aw
TOF SEORET

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.84)
the lew into their vn hande. It Is beliaved that, under
asI wuidenee. the tmredls's trsk je to work toward 
solution whion will infure obeerveren of the mein tonets
of the olice refore unt which ot the smme time will pre-
vide maximun lotornsl crourity for o disermed Jepen with-
out o endnnoe  cite teer toroea.
Freena
A/4/49

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.94)
dcp
CONFIDENTIAL
file
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECHIVED
OCT 2 7 1349
Memorandum of Conversation
DIVISIUN OF
pATE:October 20, 1949
FAR
1949
SUBJECT:
Japanese Police
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Morino, Je enece National Rural Police
Mr. Allison, Director, NA
Mr. Green, NA
COPIES TO:
FE - Mr. Hamilton
FE - Mr. Pecke
FE - Mr. Kerchent
DRF- Mr. Sneider
S/P- Mr. Davies
PCLAD, Tokyo
894.1
/Mr. Masayoshi Morino, M. A., Ph.D., - nov in Washington as
1-1493
a trial witness - is Chief Lisisor Officer between Nstional Rural
0
Police Hoaayu:rters une the National Fublic Safety Commission.
5
Thus he is thc prineipel "contect man" between the 30,o00 national
police (the other 95,00o police are municipal police, entirely
autonomous) end the 5-man, Diet-coufirmed NPs Commission charged
O
with edministrative control over the police establishment.
S
1
A condensation of his remarks appears below:7
2049
Since you have asked for my views on the state of the Japanese
police, you will forgive me if I speek with some candor.
Hed there been no cold war - a war in which Japan is deeply
involved despite its wish to remain aloof - the Us occupation
might have been jue tified in roceeding with the decentraliza-
tion of the Japanese police structure. But in the context of
the existing situ: tion in the Far Eest, the occupaticn mey find
889
it has discarded an integrated, effective police structure for
one of doubtful worth. Admittedly the pre-surrender police in
h
Japn were enti-democretic in spirit and ruthless in method;
but, in my opinion, the best way to correct this situation would
have been (a) s permanent removel of all those above the division
0
chief level, (b) the instruction of police in democratic methods,
5
and (c)
DOR NE UH
Jo
na!
CONFIDENTIAL
0
Rev.
PILED
H
N
218152
2
0
Oat
1949
Dist.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
i
-2-
and (c) acquainting the public, who would have as at present
Diet control over the police, in how a democratic police force
should operate.
As it now starcs, t e over-decentralized police establishment
is seriously lacking in coordination. No concerted police action
can be taken agcinst counterfeiters, smugglers, narcotic rings,
etc., which operate back and forth and within various autonomous
police jurisdictions. Even "hot pursuit" is proscribed by law.
An exem le of th e latter migit be of a fugitive from justice
fleeing fron just south of Yokohama to Tokyo. Passing through
four complctely autonomous police districts, the chase of the
fugitive would have to be taken up and dropped at three points -
presumally by olice or bicycles.
The effective..ss of the police against organized extremist
activity cennot be judged now, while the presence of the Eighth
Army serves as a powerful deterrent to the extremists.
If I were esked to proyose specific changes in the police
cystem as now generally constituted, I would suggest the following:
1) The ratio of nationel rural police to local municipal
police should be chared from the present 30,000:95,000 (as set
by S0AP) to at 1east 50,000:75,000. This, in itse1f, would
serve to enhance the integration of police operations.
2) The national police should be allowed, as they are in
most democratic countries of the world, to enter municipal areas
tor the purpose of investigating certain matters such as counter-
feit, nercotics, smuggling, illegal entry, apprehension of war
criminels. This would permit the use of national files, scientific
crime-detection devices, mobile equipment, etc., to be brought to
bear on rings oyerating on a netion-vide scale.
3) Whereas present law requires tha there be local auto-
nomous police (as opposed to netional rural police) in all
communities numbering upwards of 5,Ooo inhabitants, this law
chould be revised to create local police jurisdictions in com-
nunities of 20,000 or more inhabitants, with police in smaller
entities being absorbed into the national police. Due to lack
of finencial resources, meny small towns today cannot afford
more than three olicemen. Taking into account the required
3-hour day for ell public employees, this often leaves towns of
5-10,O00 persons with only one police officer on duty et any
one time. This situation also undermines the ability of local
police to act forcefully. For example, recently the autonomous
police
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
police of a town on Shikoku were forewarned of an impending assault
by pirates, operating from across the Inland Sea, on a local ware-
house. The municipal police were directed by the local Publio
Safety Commission (consisting of five leading townsfolk appointed
by the Mayor for supervising police activity) not to oppose the
pirates with force lest a member of the local police be killed.
The required lump-sum payment to the dependents of the deceased
police officer would prevent the employment of a replacement.
The average Japanese today is bewildered by such questions
as: What is to be Japan's role in any East-West war? How can
Japen remain out of the conflict? Will the US continue to garrison
Japen and will the Japanese be forced to fight in Asia against
the Soviets cum 400,O00 unrepatriated and armed Japanese? In
view of the purge and the changing attitude of sCAP toward the
reforms (particularly labor, where the National Public Service
legislation has denied labor rights to government workers) what
is meant by the democratization program? Is not the fact that
the Japanese have been compelled to accept SCAP reforms, as
well as SCAP's orders as the super-government of Japan, the
very opposite of what Americens would understand as democracy?
Is not the military hierarchy of Headquarters with its regimenta-
tion, ranks and insignia the living, omnipresent antithesis of
the "democratic way of life"?
At the conclusion of the conversation, Mr. Allison explained
at some length the background of the apparent contradictions
raised by Mr. Morino. The latter seemed reasonably satisfied
that the Occupation had done a good job under the circumstances.
He said he had merely raised the above questions in an effort
to emphasize how confused is the present state of mind of the
average Japanese who has gone through war, defeat, institutional
(not mental) reform, shifting SCAP policy and now the possibility
of involvement in what may be a hot rather than a cold war.7
FE:NA:MGreen/pm
CONFIDENTIAL
