894.51 Japan, Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., July 11, 1947 - July 25, 1949 (File 1747)
ID: 894.51-1747   Pages: 509   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.51-japan-financial-conditions-16
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
FORM DS-516
5-13-47
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
CLERK'S
FILE NUMBER
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT
CHARGE TO-
DATE OF CHARGE
INITIALS
FW 894.51 Bond Rotdece
72H
17-947
22/2

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
MAR111948
La reply refer to
X 894.51 Bondholders/
7--1147
94.51 BONDHOLDERS/7-1147
My dear Mr. Prendergast:
Referense is made to your letter or July ll, l947
and to the Department's aoknowledgment of July 22, 1947.
relative to three $lo00.00 City of Tokohame bonds held
by a olient of yours. It is regretted that the reply
to your letter has been so long delayed.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is mot mow
possible, but the following may be helprul to your under-
standing or the Department's position with respeet to
such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
securities in primarily a private transaction into whisk
the purohaser voluntarily enters after caloulation of
the risks involved. In case of default on dollar bends
issued by or guaranteed by governmental entities, as
are the bonds to whieh you refer, it is not the praetiee
of the Department to negotiate direotly for Amerlean helders,
but it does endeavor to render such ansistamee as it preperly
can to such holders or their representatiwes. In this
conneetion, attention may be called to the Joreign Bend-
New York, New Tork, which was organized severel years age
to serve as a central representative body. Although it
was established with the enoouragement of the Departmemt,
the Counoil acts on its own responsibility. Some time ago,
68
at the request of the Counoil, the Department transmitted
to the United States Politioal Adviser to the Supreme
h
Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokyo, a complete
statement regarding the doklar bonds issued or guaranteed
by Japanese governmental entities. This statemant was
sent for the information and use of the Political Adviser
e
and of the appropriate sestion of the Staff of the Supreme
Commanéer
FLH
Mr. William J. Prendergast, Jr.
Suite 3ll-3l4 Spalding Buiiding,
Portland 4, Oregom.
CS/V

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
Coamender, and for sweh sstien as migkt be eoasidesed
apprepriate in the protestion of the Ameriesm Inseress
invelved. The Departmemt believes that the Coumeil is
mindful of the interests of Ameriean helders of suck
obligations and that it will, when cceasien offers,
take sueh steps as it eonsiders to be to the edvantage
of the helders. Yon may wisk to write to the Coumsil
in connestion with the bonds mentiomed by you.
It will be appresiated that the Department is mes
im a positiom to state now what provisions, if any,
affecting such obligations, may be contained im the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provision for elaims
arising from the war may be made. As you doubtless
know, there will be many olaims and demands against
Japan, and against Japamese munieipalities and persons,
of whieh such ohkigations as those to whish you refer
will probably constitute but a small part.
However, the Department will be glad to make a
record in its files, for such consideration as may be
appropriate, of any information which an Amerieam holder
may send to it regarding his bonds. Suoh information
should include the interest rate, the dates of issme
and maturity, the face value, the purohase prise, the
manner and date or the asquisition of the bonds by him,
the date of the last payment of intersst thereon, and
the manner (whether by birth or naturalizatiom) and date
of his asquisition of American dtizenship. If it should
later be found advisable for individual Ameriean helders
to take any further steps in conneotion with such
obligations, due announcement will be made in the publie
press.
Tou also ask whether there is any present poss
bility of reeovery upon these bonds through the Ofrise
of Alien Froperty. To secure authoritative information
upon this aspeet of the matter, it is suggested that
you write direetly to the Office of Alien Property,
Department of Justice, Washington, D. C.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
2.
MAR 10 1948 P.M.
James C.Corliss, Assistant ChA
Division of Fimancial Affaif
FN:VHJ6nesBrt 3/3/48

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.93)
WILLIAM J. PRENDERGAST JR.
ATTORNEY AT LAW
TELEPHONE
SUITE 311-314
PALDING
BEACON 
WASHINGTON AT THIRD AVE.
PORTLAND 4,ORECON
LEGAL ADVISER
4608
July 11, 1947
BRANC
LCA
J 12 4
OF STATE
PAEN  
RECEINE
1 BONDHOLDERS/7-1147
20
-.8
CC
ashington
D. C.
Gentlemen:
A client of this ffice is the holder of three One
Th. sond Dollar City of Yokohama External Loan of 1926, Six
Fer Cent old Bonds. He is desirous of being advised as to
whether or not there is eny present possibility of recovery
upon these bonds, either through reperations by the present
Jepanese Government, or through the Alien Property Custodian,
or from any other source.
Your advice will be appreciated.
Very respectfully yours,
.J.Prenderga
M. J. Prendergest, Jr.
JPJr:cg
CS/A
AIRAIL
OF FINNCOAL AFFAIRS
894.5118
acb FN:go 7-22-47
JUL 1 81947
Axsuered 3/3/08
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FN- J. E Carhu
DCT OFD Unit
1147

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.89)
SAMUEL KORB
COUNSELOR AT LAW
SIVIS
27
52 WILLIAM STREET
NEW YORK S. N.Y
2
HANOVER 2 5850
BONDHO
()
15 July 1947
DIVISION OF HAPANGSE AND KOREAN
headed apanese Sha:  ! 
sentence of the 1tem states: "The trading with the
Enemy Act forbids foreigners from acquiring Japanese
shares. This will be changed before Aug. 15, when
547
private trade is resumed."
Please advise me if this statement is based
upon an official or announced directive. If it is,
I would thank you to send me a copy of such directive.
Very truly yours
Lora
SK/fm
S5
DOF OFD Unit
4.
tt
0
Disi
F

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
THE NEW YORK TIMES, SUNDAY, JUNE 22, 1947.
JAPANESE SHARES
SEEKING A GLIMPSE OF JAPANESE EMPEROR
chargee agatmst reture
WILL BE SOLD SOON
fact and general umcertéé
stock quotations low.
Even at the unrealistic fifty
Public to Bo Able to Obtain
to $1 conversion rate cmly
15,000,000.000-Yen Worth
Within Four Weeks
above $2 a share. The avarage 
$1.60. ten years ago the average
was $22.
The Japanese and the Occupe-
tion authorities are anxious to 
the greatest possible dispersion of
:-11
panies wili be en-
time pay-
ira
to start the sales soon because the
whole yield will flow intc the Jap-
anese Government's coffers, check-
ing currency inflation and general-
ly stabilizing the economic situa-
tion. The Government will deliver
non-transferable bonds to the own-
ers of corporation shares.
One reason for haste is the fact
that the Socialist Government is
predisposed toward Government
ownership of almost everything and
failure to place the stocks of pri-
vate companies in the hands of
private holders might result in pro-
posals for Government ownership.
The most difficult problem is the
price ot the shares. Few industrial
companies are making profits, and
although academic economists at-
tach high importance to book
Police struggling to hold back a crowd that finally broke through
value as a method of fixing the
price, book value means little in
their lines when the Emperor recently visited Osaka. One woman was
Japan's investment market. Inves-
trampled to death in the stampede that followed before military police
tors are certain to price shares by
restored order.
The New York Times (Tokyo Bureau)
gauging future earnings.
It has been decided that the
Japanese Government -despite the
prospectuses showing each com- companies have been forced to
need for educating what amounts
pany's present carnings.
borrow more than their total pre-
to a brand new investing public--
Some of the reports will make
war net worth to continue opera-
cannot well attempt to forecast
strange reading for there have tions. Many of these debt burdens
earnings. but the new Liquidation been no reappraisals accompany-
generally carried at interest of
Commission will prepare
brief ing the yen's depreciation. Many
5 or 6 per cent - have become

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.84)
AUG201947
ha reply reteer to
2549
M dear Mr. Lerb:
Iour lotter of July 15, 1947 regarding a nome artiale in the
y
Now Tonk Times conesraing the sale ef Jepenese seemrities, hee heen
ressived.
8
70
À press release covering the resmptien ef isternatiomal trade
 Angust 15, 1947, is alee enelesed for your inferaation.
Sinserely yours,
PAIM
Resvell E. hitmas
Asseciate mies
Division ef Gesmpied ress
Eecmsaie Affairs
Eeelesures:
Pross Release No. 163, March 3, 1947 and Prese Release, Jame 9, 1947.
Mr. Semmel Kerb,
Comseler Àt Law,
52 Willimm Street
Now York 5, N. Y.
8/18/47
 (Cleard)
OSM CTO
Rev
10G 20 947

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
51947
Dókyo, August 5, 1947
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENTOF STATE
No. 1214
DC/
AUG 2 0 1947
SUBJECT:
Allied Ne
 Interests in Ujigawa Denki Kabushiki
Kaisha
44
(FN)O7)
The Political Adviser for Japan has the honor to refer to the
Department's airmail instructions No. 313of November 13, 1946 and
No. 474 of April 15, 1947 (No file number), with regard to dollar
bonds issued or guaranteed by Japanese Governmental entities.
RS/8-547
The Civil Property Custodian, General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, to whose office the protection of
the interests in question was referred, provided under date of
1/
August 1, 1947 a Japanese Government report on the current status
of Allied national interests in the Ujigawa Denki Kabushiki Kaisha.
It is suggested that this report be transmitted to the National City
Bank of New York and that that bank be advised as follows!
Regarding redemption of the concerned debentures
and collection of earned income accruals thereon, a
moratorium has been declared and established on statutes
of limitations, prescriptions and forfeitures or penalty
provisions invoked by the Japanese civil or other codes
2/
or laws. A copy of memorandum for the Japanese Government,
f11e AG 386 (12 May 47)CPC/FP, SCAPIN 1670, 12 May 1947,
subject, "Supplemental Instructions concerning Protection
and Preservation of Property", is enclosed for transmittal
with the Japanese Government report herewith.
Pending recovery of initial investments by redemption
CS/V
of outstanding debentures, collection of impounded income
accruals, and/or any other action leading to an equitable
and mutually satisfactory solution between the Japanese
Government, guarantor: the Industrial Bank of Japan, trustee;
and the National City Bank of New York, fiscal agent, or
individual investors, associations of investors or any agent
appointed thereby, the status quo as established by the
An
above report will remain constant.
According to data submitted herewith the Japanese
FILED
Rev.
Cal.
DiSL.
bands

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 1214
August 5, 1947
bonds and interest thereon.
A claim may be filed against the Japanese Government
for monetary loss during the period the instruments matured
at which time earned income ceased to accrue and the date on
which recovery of invested funds was completed. However.
no procedures have been established as yet for adjudicating
claims ageinst the Japanese Government for loss or damage.
Aft with onng
Enclosures:
1. Report, in duplicate, on
status of Ujigawa Electric
Company, Limited, First
Mortgage 7% Sinking Fund
Gold Bonds, July 1. 1947,
Foreign Businoss Depertment,
The Industrial 3ank of Japan.
2.
Copy of Memorandum for
Japanese Government, File
AG 386 (12 May 47) CPC/FP:
SCAPIN 1670, "Supplemental
Instructions Concerning
Protection and Preservation
of Property".
Original and ozhid
to Department
350
GBruner:ms

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 1214 dated August 5, 1947 from the
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject:
"Allied National Interests in Ujigawa Denki Kabushiki Kaisha".
REPORT ON STATUS OF
UJIGAWA ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, LIMITED
FIRST MORTGAGE 7 SINKING FUND GOLD BONDS
Reference: AJL/mv (2 June 1947)
2ndl 22

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.90)
Report on Status ef
Ujigawa Elestrie Pewer Cempany, Limited
Pirat Mortgage 7x Sinking Pund Gold Bamds
Reference: AJL/mv (2 June 1947)
Nemorandun te Mimiety f
Governmemt, Tokye, Japem.
July 1, 1947.
Poreign Business Department
The Industrial Bank of Japan.
Ku fllalonda
Approved by
K. Matsula
Chief of Poreigm Business Department.
Report supplied aboye
K. Shimura

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
PPOSaOO
1. The present report has been prepared fer a detatled im-
formetive report on the eurrent statue of Piret Mertgage
7; Sinking Pund Jold Bonds of Ujigawe Denki Kabaahiki
Kaishe (Ujigawa Elestrie Power Company, Limited) regatred
under the Memorandum AL/mv dated 2 June, 1947.
2. The present report contains the following items:
Itam l. (a) The historical statement regarding to the for-
mation of Kansa1 Eleetric Supply Co., Ltd. mder
the Klectric Power Distribution Control Ordimmee,
and the assumption of the U.S. Dollar Bonds ef
Ujigawe Electric Power Co., Ltd. by it.
(b) The treatment effected on the Bonds pursuant
to the Law Relating to the Treatment of the Pereign
Bonds.
(c) Completion of the registratioms of the dis-
charge from the obligation of the Bonds and of the
cancellation of the mortgage securing same.
(d) The status of the treatment of the interest
payablo.
Itam 2. (a) Regarding to the outstanding amount of the Bonds.
(b) The sinking fund ascounts resorded by the
Industrial Bank ef Japan, Ltd., Trustee.
Item 3. (a) On the subject of the list of number of the
unredeemed Bonds whieh are presmed to be omed by
the Allied nationals.
(b) Settlement regarding the payment of interest

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.92)
on the Benés.
(1) Prier to Deeember 7, 1941..
(11) subsequest to Deeember 7, 1041.
Item 4. (a) Comments in detail en the fomatim  m
Kleetrie Jupply Co., Ltd. (Annex - The belamee 
of the corporation).
(b) Statement regarding the Pastery Estate mertage
to seeure the Bonds.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.93)
- 8 -
It 1. (a) The hieterieel etetomens regeds 
Power Distribetien Contrel Crdfmeee 
of the U.S. Dellar Bende e Ujigeme Meetrte Peese 
Ltd. by it.
The Ujigawa Denki Kabushiki Kaisha (Ujigawe Eleetrãe
Power Company, Limited) Pirst Mortgage 7% Sinking Pmd
Gold Bonds in the aggregate prineipal ment of $14,s00.-
C00 were issued in the United States of Ameriee 
Earch 15, l925 under the Indenture between sa1d esrpere-
tion, as Issuer, and Kabushiki Kaishe Wippem Kegye
Ginko (The Industrial Bank ef Japan, Limited) as Trustee,
dated March 15, 1925. The Corporatign sinee then hed
duly performed and observed all stipulatiens and cove-
nants as provided in the Indenture until the Great Wer
II broke out on December 7, 1941.
On August 30, l94l, the Klestrie Power Distributien
Control Ordinance, a copy of English tremslatien of mhish
is annexed hereto (refer to Annex 1), was promalgeted
and taking all procedures presoribed in the Ordinanee
Kansai Haiden Kabushiki Kaisha (Kansai Kleetrie Supply
Company, Limited) was established to whieh Ujigawe
Denki Kabushiki Kaisha (Ujigawa Elestrio Power Company,
Limited) was wholly absorved. Thus all and every rights
and obligations of Ujigawa Electric Power Co., Ltd. had
been entirely assmmed by the newly formed corporation md
the Ujigawe Eleotrie Power Company'a U.S. Dollar Bonds,
outstanding mount of whioh at that time was $2,833,500,

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
一
the Pactery Rstate No. 8 registered at the Pasiima
Regletry Court under the furisdietien of Xyete Leeal
ing to the above faot could not have been deme te the
National City Benk of New York, Piseal Agemt, me to.
inability by laok of means of commmication on mesoumt of
it being in the wartime.
(b) Treatment effected on the Bonds purauant te the Lem
Relating to the Treatmnt of the Poreign Bonde.
While Kansa1 Electric Supply Co., Ltd. hmd themee
continued in assuming all obligations ef Ujigawa Mlestrte
Power Company's U.S. Dollar Bonds, "The Lew Relating to
the Treatment of the Foreign Bonds" (refer te Amnex B),
was put into force, and under the said lew the Bends owned
by Japanese and friendly nationals were cenverted to the
corporation'a domestic bonds by consent ef the omers nd
for the part of the Bonds other than those converted to
the domestic bonds that were presumed to be held by the
Allied nationals the Japamese Govermment had assumed the
obligation of payments of the principel of and interest
on all suah Bonds, and further according to said law the
force and effect of the mortgages ote. under the original
contrect were invalidated.
At the time the treatment of the Foreign Bonds was
effected under the said law, September 15, 1943, the
outstanding principal mount of the Bonds was $2,833,500,

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.96)
一-
the demestie bonds knewn es "Speeial Series Pirst" Bemeés
ing to 7,088,200, mnd for the remmining pert of the
Bonds with the prinoipel mount of $874,500 the oblige- 
tion of payment of the principal of and interest m all
such Bonds had been assumed by the Japanese Govermmemt
to whion consideration therefor were paid by the eerpere-
tion.
(c) Completion of the registrations of the diseharse
from the obligation of the Bonde and of the eemeellettem
of the mortgage securing same.
Thus, as stated in the preceding paragraph, the
obligetions of Kansai Electric Supply Ce., Lta. fer the
Ujigawa lectric rower Company's Bonde had been dis-
charged and its portion of the non-conversion, which
was presumed to be held by the Allied nationals, had
become the Government bonds by assumption.
Consequently, Tansai Electric Supply Co., Ltd.
completed its Commereial Megistration for the diseharge
from the obl1gation of the Bonds on September 29, 1943;
and, the mortgage created on the property of the Factory
Estate to secure the Bonds being invalidated under the
provision of Paragraph 2 of Artiele 9 of the Law.
Relating to the Treatment of the Poreign Bonds, the
registratlon for cancellation of the mortgage thereon
seouring the Bonds was completed on October 18, 1943,

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
by it.
Subsequently the Secendary convereiem mas meée em
August 20, 1945 by the Japanese Govermmemt by paytms wss
Government domestic bonds for those Bends ememting to
$10,500 in the principal owned by Japemese whiah hed
not been converted to the domestie bonds on September
15, 1943. Thereby, the principal amount of the Bonds
outstanding at present as unredeemed is $864,000 as
ahowm in the following exhibit.
EXHIBIT 1.
Amount out- First conver- Socond conver- Unredeemed
standing on sion on Sept. sion on Aug.
Bonds ous-
Tytle
Doc. 7, 1941 15, 1943
20,1945
standing en
Jame 1. 1947
Uj1gawe 2,833,600 $1,959,000
10,500
$864,000
Electric
Power Co.,
Ltd. U.S.
Dollar
Bonds
(d)
The status of the treatnant of the interest peyeble.
Por the interest payable on the outstanding um-
redeemed Bonds as shown above which are presumed to be
held by the Allied nationals, falling due subsequent to
December 7, 1941 up to March 15, 1943 and amounting to
$90,685 in tota1, payments of 1ts yen equ1velent, $317,-
522.69, were made to the Spec1al Property Custody Account at
Yokohame Speoie Bank (now at the Bank of Japan) as shown
Exhibit 4 in the Item 3.
Por the interest payable thereon, due thereafter
or subsequent to September 15, 1943, 1t 1s in liab1lity

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
- 7-
of the Japanese Gevermment.
The mount of the unredeemed Bonde outatemdtng on
December 7, 1941, when the conversion of the Beade 
the domestic bonds under the Law molating to 
Treatment of the Poreign Bonds had net yet been meée,
was 2,833,50 and it should be noted that there 1s e
discrepanoy between the above figure md the outstem
ing amount of the Bonds as of August 23, 194l reperted
by the National City Bank of New York, Piseel Agent,
described in the emorandum dated Jume 2.
(b) The sinking fund sccounts reserded by the Indmstrial
Bank of-Japan, Ltd., Trustee.
It was used to practise that the minking fands in
four instalments every year were remitted te the Piseal
Agent pursuant to the provision of the Indenture and
the Bonds were retired by purchase through operation
thereof.
A statement of the sinking fund accounts subsequent
to November 1939 extracted from the record st the Indus-
trial Bank of Japan, Ltd., Trustee, is shewn below:

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.96)
EXHIBIT 2.
Statement of sinking Fund Account of Ujigawa
Electrie Power Co.'s 7% Dollar Bonds.
(Subsequent to November 1939)
Amount of
Cutetanding
Due date of
inking
Arount
Date of
bonds
amount of
Nos.
remittance
retired
unredeemed
Remriks
payment
und
remitted
received
by
bonds
purchase
1
Nov. 1, 1939
140,000
140,000
NOt. 1, 1939
$160,00
4,318,800
2
Peb. 1, 1940
140,000
140,00
Feb. 1, 1940
149,000
4,159,800
3
May 1, "
175,000
175,00
May 1,
189,00
3,980,500
8
4
Aug. I,
175,000
176,000
Aug. 1,
175,00
3,805,500
5
Nov. I,
175,000
175,000
Nov. 1,
246,000
3,559,500
6
Feb. 1, 1941
175,000
175,000
Fob. 1, 1941
220,0
3,389,500
7
May 1,
178,000
175,000
May 1, "
212,000
3,187,500
8
Ang. 1, "
176,000
Bonds
269,000
2,888,800
See Nete ()
substitu-
ted
Nov. 1,
175,000
25,000
2,853,800
Thereefter the, papment pf siaking fyads was stoppoep.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.95)
.  .
Jotos:
(1) The dates of remittenee reseived were empsesed
in accordance with the telegrams reeeived frem
the National City Bank of Now York.
(2) n account of the issue of President Exeoutive
Order on Seisure of Poreign Assets, the remit-
tance of the sinking fund due on August 1, l04l,
became impossible to be effected and by umder-
standing of the Fisca) Agent the Bonds were
retired by purehase with the fund in Japanese
currency equivalent to $175,000 on August 1,
1941, the due date of delivery of the sinking
fund, and the cortiricates of the Bonds hed
been destroyed by fire in the presenee of
representatives of the Nationel City Bank of
New York and the Industrial Bank of Japen, Ltd.
(3) Due to inability of remittance of the sinking
fund 3175, 0c0, due November 1, 1941, in the
similar manner as mentioned above the Bonds
only mounting to $25,000 in the principal
amount were retired by purchase in Japen.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
一 10 -
By the outbreak of the Great Wer. II theve wee mo
way for remittance and by the order ef the Japemese
Government the redemption of the Bonds threugh ite
sinking funds wes stopped; therefore, the outstmeins
amount of the Honds as of December 7, 1941 was 2,8ss,-
s00 as stated sbove.
Thereafter, as stated in Iter 1, as the result of
the first and second converslons, effeeted on September
15, 1943 and ugust 20, 1945 respectively, under the
Law Relating to the Treatment of the Poreign Bonds, of
those Bonds oumed by Japanese and friendly nationels
into domestic bonds with consent of such owmers, the
Bonds amounting to 864,000 remained as unredeemed
and the obligation of payment of the principal of and
interest on this portion had been assumed by the Japenese
Government under the Law Relating to the Treatment of
the Poreign Bonds, but in accordanee with the said
Law the mortgage. on properties and other foroe and
effect of the original contrect were invelidated.
Iter 3. (a) on the subject of the list of the number of the
unredeamed Bonds whieh are presumed to be owned by the
Allied nationals.
The Bonds in the prineipal mount of 864,000 which
were not converted to domestic bonds and had been assum-
ed by the Government are the present outstanding amount
of the unredeemed Bonds and are presumed to be owned by
the Allied nationals at present.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.94)
-1-
The Bende being nem-registesable bemda, s 
ed in the Indenture, a list ef Allsed mtlemal bend
June 2 cannot, to our regret, be prepared.
A list of the number of the outstanding Bemis,
which are presumed to be owned by Allied mtiemals, 
attached herete. (Refer to Annex 3.)
(b) Stateent regarding the payment of intereat 
the Bonde.
(1) Prier to December 7. 1941.
The redemptions of the Bends had been earsied
out until the outbreak of the Great War II as shm
in Exhibit 2 of Item 2, and the payments of imberest
on the Bonds as well had been duly prastised as
shown as the following exhibit up to the outbreak
of the war.
However, for the interest payment for these dee
March 15, 1940 and thereafter an expedient mthed
was adopted with approval of the Natienal City Bank
of New York, Fiscal Agent, that the coupens purebased
in Japan would be partly applied to the paymnt for
interest funds.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
EXHIBIT 3.
Statement of Interest Payment On Ujigawa Electric
Power Company's 7 U.S. Lollar Bonds.
(Subsoquent to September, 1939)
Amount of
Due date of
Amount of
Amount of
Date of
Coupons
Nos.
payment
interest
remittance
remittance
applied to
Remarks
fund
received
payment of
interest fund
1
Sept. 15, 1939
156,747.50
156,747.50
Sopt. 5, 1939
Coupons lecated as
Japan ware purehe
2
Mar. 15, 1940
145,932.50
90,912.50. 5,1940
55,020.00
heneeferth.
3
Sept. 15, 1940
138,810.00
41,965.00 Sept. 5, 1940
96,845.00
4
Mar. 15, 1941
116,917.00
38,202.50
Mar. 5, 1341
78,715.00
5
Sept. 15, 1941
100,047.50
30,292.50
Sept. 5, 1941
69,755.00
Note: The dates of remittanees received were entered in aeserdanse
with the telegrams reseived from the Natienal City Bamk ef
New York.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.92)
一
(2)
In ee of the  of the
War II, there was no way to make peiee 
interest funds to the Pis eal Agains in New Yosk,
measure, 1ssuing its order "Kanbo-hi" No. 3 md
No. 7 (refer to Annex 4), to the effeet thas the
funds for the interest payments eguivalemt te
those required for the part located outside of Japem,
which was presumed to be owned by Allied matiemsls,
should be paid into the Special Property Custety
Account at the Yokohame Specie Bank by Kameml
Electric Supply Co., Ltd. after Jamuary, 104, i
view of protecting such holders of soupems lesated
outside of Japan and the corporatien sheald be
discharged from the obligations of the interest
payment respeoting thereto under the provisien of
the Hostile Nationals Property Control Law (refer
to Annex 5); the result of said payments is shown
in the following exhibit.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.94)
-14-
EXHIBIT 4.
Statement of Interest Funds In The Special
Property Custody Account.
(Subsequent to March, 1942)
Nos.
Tue date
Interest
Amount paid
Amount of
Yen eqivalent
Remarks
fund
in Japan
unpaid
intorest
6
Mar. 15, 1942
99,172.50
68,932.50
30,240.00
120,520.00
Outstanding prinsipal
amount $2,833,800.
7
Sept.15, "
99,172.50
,987.50
30,205.00
123,371.25
This Aosount s
in oustody of 
Bank of Jaa
8
Mar. 15, 1943
99,172.50
03,932.50
30,240.00
60,661.44
The corperatig
the cbligatie
Total
297,517.50
$206,832.50
$90,685.00
1317,552.69
made te th
underth
of Artiale
Property Ge

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.95)
- -
assumed the obligation of payment of the primstpal
of and interest on the Bonds amounting to #ases000,
outstanding as unredeemed.
To comment on the interest, the Gevernmems s
obligated to pay coupon moneys $30,240 semiammally
payable on each cue date subsequent to september 15,
1943, for its obligation of the outstanding Bends
amount1ing to864,000.
Itom 4.
Finally it shall be stated herounder comserning
the reorganization of Ujigawe Electrie Power Co., Ltd.
occured subsequent to Tecember 7, 1941, that 1s, the
formation of ansai lectric Supply Co., Ltd., and
regarding the mortgage secured the Bonds ineluding
changes relating to the properties ineluded in the
Factory Estate and cancellation of the mortgage.
(a) Comments in detail on the formation of Kaneel
Eloetrio Supply Co.. Ltd.
The Eleetrie Distribution Control Ordimee (refer
to Appendix 1.) was promulgated on August 30, 1941 1n
pursuance of the National General Mobilisation Law for
purpose of bringing more effective management and
control of eleckric distribution by merging many
enterprisers in Japan. The territory of eleetrie

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.94)
一 -
Limited ("Haiden Kabushiki Kaisha" in Japammes w
sometimes is translated Electric Supply Co., Lade) 
establiabed.
Under the provisions of said Ordimemee the sve
ment would eleet "Appointee Company" (refer te Astiote
4), who would become nuoleus of the newly orgamimed
company, and would also order other electris emsespriseeres
either private companies or local governmemts er mmie»
palities, in the bloo to contribute electrie fasilisimm
owned by them toward the share capital of the mw
company.
By the order of the Minister of Cemmmmieatiems
(Note: later the Ministry of Comunication being
abolished the Minister of Commeree and Industry is
aubstituted to the position) dated September 6, 1941
Ujigawa Electric Power Co. together with Nankai Hydre-
Electric Power Co., Ltd. were elected the "Appointee
Company" and twelve enterprisers including Osaka, Kobe
and Kyoto Municipalities were ordered to contribate
their electric facilities to the shmre sapital in order
to organize the Distribution Company with the territery
of electric distribution extending over prefestures of
Osaka, Kyoto, Hyogo, Nara, Shiga and Wakayama.
Ujigama Electric Power Co., Ltd. had become the
Kansai Electric Supply Co., Lsd., an "Klectric

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.95)
一7-
U.S. Dollar Bonds obligations have automasieally 
carried over to the Kansai Electric Supply Co., Led.
and also the electric facilities inoluded in the Festmry
Estate seouring same have been taken over as a whele y
them and the mortgage thereon has centimued, without
change, to be subjected, thus the rights and interests
of the boncdholders having been fully protested and is
no way impaired as covenanted in the Indentures.
The status stated above had contamed watil the
measures under the Law Relating to t he Treatment of the
Foreign Bonds were taken for the Bonds.
For information the balance sheets and statememts
of profits and losses of Ujigawa Electric Power Co.,
Ltd. for the term ended Mareh 31, 1942 and of Kamsed
Electric Supply Co., Ltd. for the semi-annual terms
ended from September 30, 1942 to Mareh 31, 1947, are
attached hereto (Annex 6).
(b) Stateme at ragarding the Pactory Eatate martgaged
to seoure the Bonds.
The Ujigawa Electric Power Company's U.S. Dollar
Bonds had been sesured by the mortgage on the Fastory
Estate No. 8 registered at the Fushimi Registry Court
in the jurisdiction of the Kyoto Local Court as preseribes

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.94)
- 
in the Indenture.
Uia Electrie Pver Co, L. 
Octeber 1, 1941, contributed - part ef  le
facilities camprising the Factory Ratate temasd the
share capital of the Japan Electric Gepsration ad
Tranamimsion Co., Ltd., by the order of.Minister 
Communication pursuant to t he provision of the Lem
Governing the Japan Eleetric Generatien and Trams-
mission Co., Ltd. The properties, transferred to the
Japan Eleotrio 1nelude Uj1 and other 9 water power
plants with total capacity of 115,90o E.W. and 7 
mission lines. Accoriing to the provision of t L
Foroign
Relating to the Treatment of the. Bonds in Commeetiem
with Eleotric  ower Control, the properties tremsfeswed
had still contimued to be. included in the Fastery
Estate and mortgages thereon securing the Dollar Beads
continued to be subjected. For consideration ef the
above contribution the Ujigawa received the Japan
Eleotric's shares amounting to yen 49,480,550 and eash
yen 15.
As stated in the foregoing (a) Ujigawa Electrio
Power Co. had become Kansai Electric Supply Co. on
April 1, 1942 and the mortgage on the properties owned
by it remained to continue to be subjeoted until the
obligation of the payment of the prinoipal of and
interest on the Ujigawa Dollar Bonds was assumed by
the Japanese Government under the Law Relating to the
Treatment of the Foreign Bonds.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
一0
als the obligation of payment of the primeiyal end
mant: and regarding the mortgage on the Fastery Eetat
the registration for cancellation thereof under the
provision of Paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the Lew Re»
lating to t he Treatment of the Foreign Bends was
completed on October 18, 1943. For referenee the
statement of properties comprising the Fastery Estate
mortgaged to seoure the Bonds at said date is astashed
hereto (Annex 7).
It is added for information that the Kimugame
Steam Power Plant included in the Pactory Estate has
been designated as one of the selectioms under inserim
reparation program which is subjeet to removal, in
accordance with the memorandum of the Supreme Commander
for the All1ed rowers dated August 13, 1946. (Annex 8)
For reference it is also added that the fellowing
reports in regard to the Bonds which were previously
prepared by Kansai Electrio Supply Co., Ltd. were
mailed on Way 16, 1947 to the principal ofrice of the
National City Bank of New York, Piseal Agent, through
the Industrial Bank of Japan, Trustee.
(a) Report on the general status of the Bonds in the
Wartime, dated August 5, 1946.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.86)
()
rl, d ,.(
In coneluding the seport, we beliove the presns st
of the Ufigame Rlectrio Pewer Company's U.S. Dollar Bede
been fully explained, and we assure you we are willing te do
eur best to answer to your queries if you have any.
The Industrial Bank of Japan, La.
Dated July 1, 1947.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 1.00)
ANNEX

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
List of Annex
humber
Description
Prepared or
issund by
1
The Llectric Power istribution Control
The Japanese Govermment.
Ordinance.
2
The Law helating to the freatment of
The Japanese Governmens.
the Foreign Sonds.
3
List of  wibers of the outstanding
The Industrial Bank of
ollar Bonds of
jigawa  lectric
Japan, Ltd.
Power Co., Ltd.
工
2
4
Orders, "Kanbo-mi-rei" H. 3 and lo. 7.
The Ministry of Finanes.
5
he Hostile Nationals roperty Control Law.
The Japanese Government.
6
inancial statenents of jigawa lectrio
Xansai Electric Supply
Fower o.. Ltd. and ansai lectric
Co., Ltd.
Supply Co., Ltd.
7
Statement of the property comprising the
The Industrial Bank of
Factory Estate.
Japan, Ltd.
8
emorandum on the subject of the repara-
G.II.Q. of S.C.A.P.
tion selections of steam power plants.
9
General report on the status of the Bands
Kansai Electrie Sy
in the artine and report on the
Co., Ltd.
reparation selections of steam power
plants.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.83)
APNEA
1

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
ELECTRIC. DISTRIBUTION CONTROL ORDINANOB
(Imperial Ordinance No. 832
promulguted on August 3, 1941)
be mude under the provisions of Article l6-2 or the Natio
Mobilization Law reg rdin the contribution toward share eapl
tal, of the facilities of lectric supply enterprise, ete.,
the order to be made unde: the provisions of Artiole 16-3 of
the s 1d Law regarding tne transfer of electrio supply onter-
prise or he merger or tno dis olution of any company operat
ing electric suppiy onterprise, the order to be made under
the provisions . rticle lo ur tho saiu w rearding the
renization or y cpny pururte to operate to effoet
the control of electrle aistribution enterprise (hereafter
called the "Distribation mnany") as well as the mattors
under the sume provisions re, arding the Distribution Company.
the matters under the provisions of urticle l8-2 of the said
Law regarding the succe.sion of dabt borne by & person that
shall transfer electric supp ly onterprise op shall contribute
the fucilities of electric supply enserprize toward shure
capital, and the disposal of the mortsge thereof, the ttere
under the provisions of ricle l-S of the said Law, regard-
ing establishment of excentional case in computation of the
tax standard or exemption or reduction of taxes with respeet
to the tranufer of electric supply enterprise or the contribu-
tion of facilitles of olectric suprly enterprise or as to
the Distribution Goapany, and tne order to be mude under the
provisions of rticle 19 of the said Law regarding the rate

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.93)
- 8 -
of electric charge of the Distribution Compamy.
any person who shall operute olectric supply enterpr
organize the Distribution Company.
In the order of the preceding parugraph, order may
made to cause competent onterpriser to become the Distrib-
tion Company or to contrthate the facilities of eledtrie
supply enterprise.
rticle . in   si the uruer  tne preceding rtiol
the inister of morce and industry shall deliver to the
comperent anternriser a document of the order desoribing the
followin: iten therin:
1. Name  the istributi n Company to be organized ad 
aistrict f stributlon.
. ame  the company cesinated to become te Distribution.
vapany.
3。
hHame of the persn em aatec to contribute the faoilatios
of clectric supply e terprise coward share capital.
Extent of the fucili i of olectric supply entorprise
to be contributed toverd share capital.
o. The date within whien he Distribution Company shall be
organized.
. r   l  d .
In case the oruer of the prececing article shall have
been given, the "inister or "ommerce and Industry shall make
a public notice as to the items of lauses 1 to 5 of the
precoding paragraph.
article 4. The company taut shall be ordered to vecome the
Distribution Company (hereafter called the "appointee Company")

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.91)
- 3 .
tribution Company in accordance with the provisions of 
urdinance.
The rderee, exceptiny the Applintee Company, may ei
tribute the rucilitles of electric supply enterprise comsti-
tuting  part  is ,  sure cpitl to 
fect the organization of the i bution Company irrespective
to any other law or ortinance.
Article 5. Pne rderee shall select ané uppoint a Committeo of
orpanizution m shull outain sanction therofor from the
inister f vomaerce und traatry.
The Co nittee of or avization shall perform the busines
relati ve to she orgurls tion of the Distribution Company.
tha inister of vomaarce anu industry may make order
necessury for supervision in rogurd to the businoss of the
precerin paraprap.
Artiole 6. The Conmittee of r  iz tion shall make an in
strument deseribin the  i items a shall obtain
pproval thererorees
1.        of 
cunital: the amount to be paid-in per share: and the
place of the main ofrice.
2. Name of the company sesi nsted to become the Distribution
Company.
3. Speoios, total number, amount to be pid-in per share as
to the ahures to be issued by the Distribution Company;
and matters relatin allotment of shares for shareholders

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.93)
of the Appointee Company.
4. The provislons rogardine mount of money to  p
shareholder of the Appointee Company if such shell be
deeided.
5. Name of the person trat shall make contribution toward
share capital in compliance with the order under the pe.
vislons or article z pereof, property assigned to be eom
tributod, no value tnereor as well as the specie and
number or share, t oo  iven therefor.
Froperties that shall havo been promised to be tranafeored
after ostatlishment  the Distrioution company and the
value und the  a f he tranaferer thereof.
7.The ate  f the Distribution Compay
. Phe dute  wh sli be made oy each Ordored.
9. ther items ta s  eeme necessary.
sne upprovar  uri prraph ll be de by
the resolution in aceoruance with the provisions of Artiele
34* of the Connarelal Code 1n cuse the Orderee shal1 be 
company. In is  se, ti subatantial mutters of the in-
strumeat of tae prococi carureph shall be contained in
the hotlce or she polic  tice that shall be mude in accordanee
with the provisions of rticle Z3z  the Gommercial Code.
After the approval of the first paragraph of this Artiele
ö snall nave been obtained, the committee of Jrganisation
shall obtain sanction therefor from the inister of Commoree
and Industry.
Before giving the sanction. of the preceding paragraph,
the inister f ommerce and Industry shall consult with the
Invostigation Committee of the Electric Powers Valuation as
to the items oi clauses  to o or Paragraph 1 of this Artielo 

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.88)
- 8 -
therefor without delay to the Jrdereo.
Article 7. The provisious of Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Artiele 
ization of the Distribution Company; provided, however, the
term "hree months" in  e trovise  urugrape 1 of the
Article 377 and the provis or cara aph 1 of rticle 378 of
the omerelal e that sall be up lied in Paragraph 
at cicle sle tcreul vircluoine tae case that srall de appliod
in rragrapn 2  rtiule 7y  e se coce) snll b 
atite bv the tere
Article 3. Upon cht laire
 stion of uragraph 3 of artiel
o hereor, the vomituee  iatin hall prepare th
Articles or nssociation
i sunction threfor
from tme iaiater r   dusury.
In to artiele.
 preceding paragraph
the rollowin ies   s in addition to the
items providee e s of the Jommeroial Code
1.atters as t  share so she suareholder of
the Appoincey
2. Provisions as to cs unt to be paid to the sharoholder
of the appointe py,  such shall pave been decided.
. Goneral conaitlon of t propertles of tne appointee Company.
Article 9. upon sotaininm  vtion  Par graph 1 of Article 8
hereof, the Committee of rganization shall offer for sub-
scription the shares remaininy after deducting allotments to
the sharenoldors of tho ppointeo Company und to the person
that sha
ve made contribution toward share cupital in

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.88)
compliance with the order of Article 2 hereof fr
number of shares.
in addition to the items provided under the provisions 
Clause 2 und clauses s to 7 of Purapruph 2 or Article 175 of
the sormer cial code.
pie il. upo el seriptio f sreholders, th
onmittee of orcanizatior shall suomit the letters of sub
scriptlon for sitare to  inis of sonmerce and Indus
andet exain
Article l2.
precedinArtiole
the Somait eu
1or the first pynt
and sll requese t t properties that hall
havesi 
re share capital
without colay.
aticle l.  e   che provisions of
Artiele 7 lereo ahe ale and the cayment as well
as delivery
 contriution shull be mado
the omnittee  niz shalt l for the goneral
mti   h 
The resolution of the soneral meeting of organization
shall be mmue by tho ma jority  the right of voting of uch
nembera at present that srall held in aggrogate over one helr
of the total share capital und representing at the same time
over one half of the total number of accepter of the ahare of
tho Diutribution Compuny nd aharehokiers of the Appointee
Company wuo muy not be, however, aecepters of the shares of

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.85)
● 7 ●
Company who may not be, however, accepters of the ares 
the Distribution Company.
article l4. at the goneral meeting of organization, the 
and appointed, and sanction therefor shall be obtained 
the Hinister of Conuaerer und industry.
Article ls. hen the, ener me t'u of organization phell o
closod, the Comaittee  unization shall turn over the ba
ness to the Presidene of the istrioution Company.
iclo l.  i   riuion Cpy
t ie  ie  th
unto tho rit alttre appointee Co
(ine luain t rlehts uni sions rses upon the pomit
or se er he prv lectrie Entorpri
la, relaive the tstie toctrie supply enterpri
nd the rii  n the pormite or 
provls or pol mpent oainistrative author
cles in re r t ws til sutin of river, lake or marsh or
occupancy or utili an or any other land, that hall
have been hel by  nteo Oompany) snall be suecoodod
by the vistd utonr
Upon estaolistert
the istricution Company, me Rights
u bligations baued upon tne peraits or sanctions under the
provislons oi o lectri ntepi iso aw, cne rignts and obli-
atlons in ro lo c llizati oi river, lukes or marohes.
or occupanoy or utilization or road or any other land and the
rights ana oblisations pertaining to the electrie supply

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.86)
- 8 -
fucilities of electric supply enterprise contributed towese
cupital of te Distribution Company in accordance with the
or ricle 2 horoof ull be succeeded by the Distributi 
as designated y ordor.
Article 17. The matters necessury for registration with respeet te
the c se of the con foution of facllities towerd share capital 
conpliance with tae  der riel nereor or the cas of 
precedim
rticle, mall
Ivleu Pr by order.
Ii
state o the ent at shall have ben
deaprate
wr share sapital or the
enterprise
 tee Company, or to trans
for or o pl  
jot  the rignt othor than that
sp t locument of order undor th
provisi ns ot Puragrap I  urtiele 3 hereof, the Orderee
snell bin sanecio rom tne competont administrative
authority s l rder.
Article 19.
curitie from the Appointe
vompuny te  Dit  pany in the cese of Paragraph
I or rticl l eeo
souriy rnsfor tax thereof shall
be exemp teo.
rticl  in cse y s cributo toard shar
pil  te      t er unde
the provisiona of article i cor,  exceptional case may
be established y order  e t cho connu ations of the
revenue under the Jur! Ie  Pepslon ax Faw, the net income
undor the usiness ax baw as to the valne of the shares given
for the contrloution for ths riseal term curinm which such

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.94)
contribution shall huve been mude.
Artiole 21. The prov1s1ona of Articles 167, 18l and
Comercial Code shall not he applied to the ease of the
1zation of the Distribution Company.
Article Z. ith the sxception of these provided under th
ordinance, the mutters uecessury for the organisation of the
Distritution Compa.ly slall be provided for by order.
Article 23. The walters necessury for liquidation of compam
diasolved on ac ount of tne contribution pursuant to the or
of Article 2 hereof shall te provided for by order.
article z4. The Distribution Jompuny shall be such a company
that shall have un objees to perate electric distribution
enterprise to er fect tne contrel f electric distribasion
rri  i l
he Distributin  pmy may operate inoidental basinesses
in adn t he the sinated under the preceding paag
by the order of or after ontaining sanction therefor from the
Minister of commerce and industry.
Article 25. The sharea o the .istribution company shall be
reciatered form.
Article z6. Tne Minister of ommerce and Industry may order
any person that shull operate electric supply enterprise to
merge, to transfer the enterprise r to contribute toward
share capital the facilities of electric supply enterprise
to the Distribution Cmpany. In this case, the Minister of
Commerce and industry may make order to tho competent Distri-
bution Company as to the matters necessary for such morger,.
tranafer or contrioution.
An agreement shall be made between the parties in concern

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.91)
. 10 -
for contribution under the case of the preceding
If suon u reement siall not te reached, the inister. of 
merce and Induatry shall decide.
The agreement of the precedin paragrapn shall net
efrective unloss the aaction  erefor by the Minister of
Commerce und induatry shall te uutuined.
Before ivin the decisien o the sanction of the pre-
codine tao para raphs, tie inister of ommerce and Industry
shall consult witl the investigation vommittee of the Electrio
Power vuluti.
Ihe provislons  Paracrap a f article a, Parugraph 
of rticle 10 ans  ticles 17, le, 2 and 23 hereof shal1 be
applied to the caso f sruuraph I of this rticle 26.
Witn the Exceptien " thoss previded under the proceding
five puragruphs, the matier, nsceesary rel tive to the dociaion
und relative to the mergu, traasfer or contribution therefrom
shail be provided for b: order.
vicle 27. re pruvisi   rticlo Ssé and Paragraph 2 of
rticle S55 of the emmercial ode shall not be appliod to
the capital increase of the Distribution Company that shall
have  cen made by the order provided in the latter part of
Parai raph 1 of the preceding Article.
article 2u. The 1stribution Compny shall have the President,
the vice-iresicent, she Directord and the Comptrollers as ita
JfFiCOrs.
Artiele 29.
The President ahall reprosent the Distribution
Company and control ita busineas.
The Vice-President shall act in lieu of the President

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.80)
- 11 -
in cuss the lutt lt ss aole to act, and shall perform
the ie the Presidenoy hall
bec
rli assist the
ericu by
2
1stri-
rviion
of l o 
the
mpany
llin
iniater
OF
President
th
your
tse super
exactive
ofricer
ay work
t e eto
noweves,
in bhre

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.93)
for shall be obtained from the Minister of Com
Article 33. In case the Distribution Company shall
glstration as to the following matters, the registratio
thereor shall bo as follow; provided, nowever, in case 
of the registr.tion tax compute pursuant to the provisions
Registration Tax Lw shall be less than the following momm
former amount shali proviil:
l. oranization:
The total wu unt  five thousandtha of the paid-in momt
of the snares by moncy inveatment and one thousandth of
the paid-in amcunt of the shares by the investment by
means of properties other tnan money.
2. Capital increusu aue to the contribution toward share eapital
tioie so derour provided;
 p id-ir amount of the capital
. weguluicion or the ri s s connection with real estate duo
to the contribution toaru are capital or the transfer 
in aragrapi  o rticle z, lause o of Paragraph 1 of
r icle  aragruoh I of article 2o hereof provided;
Three trousundths  the vulue of the real estate.
In cuse tne Dlatrioution Company ahall apply for the re-
glatration of the ormanisation, the registration tax shall be
exempted for that part of th amount equivalent to t he paid-in
amount of the shures of the appointee Company out of the paid-
in amount of the Distrinution Company's shares.
The provision of the preceding paragraph shall be applied
Company in regard to the acquisition of the rights in conneoti

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.80)
- 1.-
with  roal cut tes ln case n rights shall be succooded by
 e ompuny frm the   mpany as n Paragraph 1 
rtiole le r
articl
der, the istribution
tie person that
in  cordance
Para raph 1
i ten year
 cesinated
 Lax 1or ite
s rom the date
 or debentures
 the Commercial
 wonda and
deno.
-i nt or ita haro
r ll suparintend
ry stall decide
i
rtunt matters a to
Y
tno otri
nister
Articl
butinpany  to
car
cistrivution of prorit,
 be el ective, unlesa sunetion

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.79)
- 14 -
therer or shall be obtain rm te inister of Commeree and
Industry.
urticle 4  i s ll n lalnau y orcer, the Distribution
op  li rvie pln lur it eerp tse ane obtaln anotion
Th 
ie in cny chenehere
l4asaerbysribution
itiesi enterrise nor
 ter tn hut  nership
T  ottained from the tmiater of
sall e toe sam in case of uequisi
tin r rueii
article a  r o m  industry may sive order
with repoe
trioutionompeny necessary
nrendrhe puolic interents
butlon Company shall
 lction thereunder
tiosnli b
publie interest,
ral such reac lution.
1
 ll t
anyaded  vl.
,on there
ouutL shall
ofsie emed
cer  oumeree and
articie 44.
 ma  m andu stry ay, s in
Artiele i of tns monI looilization law provided, collect
pecessury papors rron a Distributien company as to its

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.85)
- 15 -
business, the organization ar uie contrioution provided under
irtiele  her eof, or us  mer er, the transter or the contri-
butl   danc itreoviiona of Paragraph 1 of
it ove mental ofrioiul
to te usine statu
are.
. the official
ro, the orricial
 or factory estate,
il re min to be con-
spe live of the con-
or the provisiona
ele 26 hereof
y
ar 1un 2 of rticie lo hereof.
I t on or recordine in
 desi, mated y order.
sion of
r provided,
ect to
luivin thut
o the previsions
shall epsi
ityln liance
al r the
l mave plcht or pledee

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.94)
mpon the eseurity deposition with itsself puram
visions of the preceding paragraph.
Artiele 47. In cuse it shall be deemed inadegmate te
contributer or the trunsferer that shall have beem ond
uke contribution of its facilities or transfer of 
prise, as in articla z or Paragraph 1 of Artiole 26 horeot
provided, to oe imposec for :ne obligation then outstandim
Miniater of Comerce and Industry may order the Diatributiem
Company to succeed the ent!re or any part of such obligesiom.
As to the mattera of  ice or omer conditions of the
succeuslon un er the provisions or tne r eceding parugraph
uereament shll e ue cetnsos Ls istrioution compny 
the contributor or tre tranaferer in concern. In ease h
agreement shall not be reached, the  nf ter of Commoree and
Industry shall deciue.
The atreement o. th  sueding puragraph shall not be ef
fective, unless sanctin therei ur by the Minister of Commeree
and Industry shall e outned.
The provisions . rar- raph 4 of Article 26 hereof shall be
applied in making tie aecision or the s nction of the preceding
two puragraphs.
In case the Distribution Company shail sucoeed obligation
of any contributor pursuant the provisions of Parugraph 1 of
this Article 4? on the date of ita establishment or eapital in-
croase, the allotment of share on behalf of the competent con-
tributor shall be waue accoruin to uhe wmount deducting the
price of succession from the price of contribution.
Article 48. With the exceptional cese that shall be designated
by order, the Distribution Company shall succeed the obligat

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.94)
restriction of the original comtrast relatiwe
tion secured by the property tranarered in esmplia
order of Article 2 or Paragraph 1 of Artiele B6 h
obligation succeeded in accordance with the provielm
Paragraph 1 of the proceding rticle.
Artiele 49. The p rson whe shall have contributed its fasiy
or transfered iss enterprle in wccorounce with the prov
or rticie a or rarugrapn  or rticle cc nereof samll mot
with demand of any person for payment of the prinoipal and
Interest of the obllpation prior to the date of mturity on
the  round of the ch nge in its assets that shall have bem
c.used oy tnis.Ordinance.
ihe provisions of tne precedin: paragraph may be 
to the Di tribation comp ny, in cuse of auccession of oblig
by the same company pur  uunt to the provisions of aregraph
Article 47 hereof.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.83)
ANNEX
11

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.92)
L
RELATING TO THE TREATHEHT
OF
TAE POBELON BONDS
(Law No.00 Promulg=ted on .arch 15, 1943)
Tranalated
by
The apan Electric Genoration
and Transmiasion Co., Ltc.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.92)
Law
Relating to the Treatment
The Foreign Bonds
(Law No.60 Promule ted on Maroh 15, 1943)
rticle 1.
The foreign Bonds referred to in this Law denote the 
al bonds, the local overnant or municinal bonds or corpoati
bonua conuted in tue currencies of sne united stute of mers
or the creut riin,  li   ll overnment or mumi
pal bonds, which, thou h  otes in Japunese currenoy, hold 
apecial stipul tion  nt in Bririsn currenoy at the pe
fied exenange rute  further e deslgnated by or.
urticie k.
The i suer of the : orel n onds (or its successor in case
where the obligation of puyment of prinoipal and interest of the
Porelgn Bonds has been us med; same being applied to herein-
after) shall iasus i:s  tonal bonds, local government or munt
cipal bonds or corporation hon a cenoted in Jupanese currenmy
(hereinufter called ad Pomestio Bonds) in exchange for the Pore-
ign Bonds neld by tose  e lenated by rder, and convert thereby
its Poraign Bond obligatlon therefor, netwithstundin anything
in the uriginal cuntruct.
As regards the conversion f Foreign Bond obligation re-
ferred to in the precedin puragraph, the consent of the holders
of said Poreign Bonds shall be obtained, In the case montioned
abovo, should uny such holder be Japaneee subject designated by
order but nis intention be unascertainmble, it ahall be do

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.94)
his sensent has been cbtaized.
In case or paragraph 1, sbould there be any eds
ing sort of t mont of t iii dmimi r 
Domestic Bonds, sueh odn sum shall be paid im eash.
Ahen the conversion of the Foreign Bonds have beem m
pursuant to the provision of paragraph 1, the right of ploage
on said roreign Bonds shall likewise continue to be subjested
to the Domestic Bonds to ∞ Lasued uner the provision of at
purayraph or on the cout payable pursuant to the provision of
the pruoecin parugraph.
Artiole.
The price of the Foreign Bonds to be converted under the
provision of the precedin ticle purugraph 1 and other terme
and conditions relatin to the converaion thereof other them
those provided in tnis Law sh ll be determined by the Govermems
through the deliveratin I the rorel sond Jommiln.
ine Government ili stiry vy publication, upon determimti
thereof, those matters menti ned in the preceding paragraph.
The rganizatlon ant suthorities of the Foreign Bond
Commisaion ahall be presoribed by imperial ordinamee.
article 4.
The certificutss of the Foreign sonus, upon their conver-
sion having been mue in purauance to the provision of article
2 parugraph 1, shall become null and void.
Of the coupons detached from the Foroign Bond» converted
under the provision of Article 2 paragraph 1, those falling
due next immediately after thme enforeement of this Law shall
be valid even aftor the conversion, and, however, those

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.91)
● -
shareafte shall all be void.
The 1ssuer of such Poreign Bonds shall make
of the bond cartifioates anmd the coupons that have
and void under tho provisions of the peceding two pase
provided, nowever, of those cuncelled by the issuer of 
Poreien Bonds the same ahall not be applied.
Article 5.
The intereat on the Domestic Sond, to be iusued purewams
to the proviaion of Article 2 par graph 1 shall aourue from
the date followine the last day of the period for whish the.
interest bue beon computed as puyable at the date of interos
payment of the Foreign on's that falls due next. immediatoly
after the nforcament  .
Ptie1e.
Whon toe iseuer  cel povernment or mumtoipel bonde
or the corporation bonls of the Foreirn Bonde converte the in
pursuunce to the provision  r iclo 2 paragraph 1, the Gover
ment will compensate for the lossos incurred by such convereion,
us preucribed by order.
The Gover:ment wilr determine through the deliberation
of the Poreign Bond Commission the basis by whioh the losses
to be compenaated by the Go venment pursuant to the preeeding
paragraph shall be worked out.
Article 7.
the Govornment may deliver government honde for the com-
pensation proviueu i tho precediuc prticle paragraph 1.
The price or the govornment ponds to be delivered pure

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.94)
2
sunt to the provision of the preceding peregraph shal
of the current prioe thereof.
The Government may issue government bonds up to the 
of the umount requireu for celivery pursuant to the provimie
of paragraph 1.
article t.
the overment may cause the lssuer of the local goverm
or municipal bonds or the corpor ation bonds of the Foreigm Bonde
cancel. as provided by order, its reacquired locul govermont or
municipal bonds or corpoation bonds of the Foreign Bonds of its
own issue, or its reac uire: corporation bonds of the Poreign
conds or wnien the volgti ns or pyment or principal and
interost have been a sumeu, notwltustullding unytuing in the
original contract.
The provisions of r1-le 4 paragraphs 1 and 4 shall be
likewise applied in caso  the cancellation referred to in
the procedine parrap.
The Govermment sill ussune, as presoribod by order, the
obligution or payuont oi p incipl uxi intorest of the local
govornment or municipal bonds or tho corporation bonds of the
Foreign Bonds other than those converted under the provision
or rticlo 2 pur graph 1.
In the cuse of the preceding parugraph, the mortgage on
the properties securing said local govornment or munioipal
bonds or corporution ponds unc otner affect or tne ariginal
contracts thereor shall become nulland void oxeept the obliga-

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.93)
tion of paymens of prinsipal and interest.
rtiele 10.
In the cuse of tne preceding Article papagraph 1.
suer of said local covernment or municipal bonds or eerj
bonds shall puy, us provided by order, to the Govermment
consideration for the assumption.
The Government shall detormine through the deliberatiom
of the Poreign Bond Conmission the b.ais by which the comside
ration to be puid for by suid issuer purauant to the provisiom
of te precuin pr sll  dciu.
t.rt1clo 11.
The payment cor onsider ution referred to in the recodins
Article paragraph 1 may be muce wich the local goverent 
municipul bond certificates or tne corporation bund ar deben
ture certificates issued y suis issuer us provided by order.
Ihe price of the locl overmen or munioipal bond cr-
tiricates or corporation  cebenture certificates tob
paid with pursuant to the : scoding puragraph ahall be decided
by the Minister of Pin. nce, taking into conmideration of the
ourrent prics thereof.
rticle l2.
Those, who will reeeive the compenaation for losses pur-
suant to the provision of ..I ticie c parucrapa I and coinci-
dently shall have to pay the consideration pursuant to the
provision of Article 10 paragraph 1, shall be paid by the
Government the sum of money equivalent to the excess in case
where the compensation exceods the consideration, and shall
pay to the Government the aum of money equivalent to the ex-

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.81)
esss in case where consideration emseeds the se
motwithatandime the provisions ef Artiele i paregre
Artiele 10 parugraph 1.
The provisions of  1.7/or ei 
shall ben al
rece ing pugraph.
1t::10
purgr I  art iI  iiuir tne c
Ilaelse u lieundor  cirlil prgrph 
1114
nftPoo
yietton
vi
or rtici puragra
 rtic1e 11 paragraph 1 in ex-
cass  : limitti ie: y other l, ordie 
orders.
   ,     
merciul code snull lst uo apoliou to we corporatlon bonds or
dobenturns prescrthe In in. precedtng parupraph.
Articlo 15.
ihe issuer or the local government or munio:pal bonds or
the corporation bonds of the Poreign Bonds ahall not be re-
quired to obtain permission er sanction provided in ether lwe
rdimanses or orders in connection with the eemversis
Repeigm Bends under tho provision oaf artiele 8
the caneellatiem ef the Poreigm B

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.95)
salsle 8 pasagraph 1 and the issuance of
or mmieipal bonds or the eorporation bonds
the provision of Article 1l paragraph 1.
Article 16.
Natters necessary in regard to the treatmems of the Fe
Bonds other than provided in this Law shall be preseribed by
ticle17.
The ity of Nugoye shull redeen in Japanese ourremey e
City of Hagoya 5 terlins Bonds of the prinoipal amount 
£800,000 owned by those dasignated by order, notwithstanding
the provisions of the original contract.
The Provisione of Article 2 parugraph 2, Artiole 3 pre
grapus 1 and z, Articie a p ragrapus 1 and , ticles 6 to
12, Article 15 and the preceuing articlc ahall be likewise ap
plied to said Bonds in the precelins parngraph.
Artiole 18.
The coupons of the  orei n Bonds nd or the publie bonds
referred to in the p ceuing rticle paragraph 1, that have
been paid by orders pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control
Law or the Enemy Asaets ndministration Las, shall become null
and void.
The provision of Article 4 paragraph 3 shall be likewise
applied to.the cuse of the preceding paragraph.
Article 19.
In case the issuer of the corporation bonds of the Foreign
Bonds mhall causo ita corporation bonus or debentures iasned
pursuant to the provisions of article 2 puragraph 1 or Artiele

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
1 te be registered at the lam-eourt.
shall be one thousandth of the paid-im ameumt
Artiele 20
The Government may, whenever deemed nesessary, as
by rder, collect reports or may cause its sompetems effld
to visit the place deemed necessary for inspeotion and to
ledgers, documents, pupers or other properties.
Artiole 21.
P
Persons who shall not submit reports or shall file false
reports against requirement under the provision of the prese
ding rticle or muke untrue stutonents on t he dooumenta to 
prosentou Dy cue rr s pur snt to this  sha 
liable to a fine not oxce  ive hundred yen.
Persons sh re use, interfer with, or evade inspection
roferred to in the preeelin rticle shall be likewise liable
to the sume penalty us mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
Artiole 22.
In cuae where agonts, employees or other staff of a juri-
dical person or un individusl ahall com it such a violation as
montioned in the preceding rtiolo puragraph 1 in connection
with the business of the aforementionel juridical person 
individual, sueh juridical person or individual shall not be
free from the penalty therefor on the ground that such acts
were not directed by Lim.
The penalty of the prececine rticle i paragraph 1 shall
be applied to of'ficer, directors or other executive offieers
in case of a juridical perzon or to statutory agents in case

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.92)
ef miers er seompesent persons, previded, e
having the same qualirication as adults se fer as
is comsmrned, shall not be exempted from thie pemalty.
Art1ole 23.
The penal clauses of this Law shall not be applied e
State, Prefectures, Jities, Towns, Villages and any poli
sub-division similar to the atove.
supplementary Provicion
This Law shall be effective as of and from the ate of
its promulgution.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.72)
TT

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.95)
LIST OF NULBKRS OF THE CUTSTANDING PONDS
(Ujigawm Elestric power Company, Limited
First Mortgage 7% Sinking Fund Gold Bomds)
June 1, 1947

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.88)
a
17
896
409
sos
194
379
000
●
176
370
4os
001
11
ns
379
s09
6oe
966
16
213
382
516
600
787
17
283
384
517
610
T90
23
251
11
1.
70
899
.4
7.
730
899
704
901
58
412
525
ozk
766
908
59
295
418
526
683
767
000
60
300
419
548
624
779
61
30と
422
554
640
780
62
315
423
555
648
781
968
“
317
420
556
649
794
ese
70
329
433
557
659
797
968
75
339
442
560
667
804
951
81
342
448
565
675
805
061
8
344
459
566
695
810
1.25
349
461
572
720
814
120
800
467
593
721
817
990
181
553
475
575
744
819
145
sas
476
577
745
823
186
850
4.00
585
746
8.26
108
362
4.85
586
749
826
9SS
168
375
4.84
591
750
827
182 plecesse

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
9ss
1909
546
904
1300
3006
54
547
968
1850
3010
58
585
969
1836
3011
61
585
997
1839
5012
s2ss
139
594
1014
1872
3013
3235
159
655
1021
1886
3021
3234
1:75
666
1471
2119
3032
3235
248
700
1507
2161
3055
325s
251
707
1529
2197
3037
3237
252
721
1531
2264
3080
3238
5654
267
738
1563
2343
3084
3245
$655
289
740
1582
2458
3085
3868
3056
281
803
1589
2823
3086
3271
5657
284
804
1590
2864
3087
3296
3665
334
856
15.99
2865
3088
3572
3664
337
857
1600
2929
3089
3399
3666
338
871
1659
2955
3090
3403
3667
339
893
1660
2961
3091
5412
3668
345
894
1687
2970
3092
3413
3669
359
920
1703
2971
3093
3414
3677
369
926
1711
2972
3111
3415
3678
3865
380
029
1752
2973
3120
3444
3685
450
930
1763
2974
3129
3497
3731
3908
483
931
1786
8993
3169
3502
3765
3900
498
949
1787
2994
3182
3503
3764
3910

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
so1l
4090
4165
4784
5568
61.0
5018
4104
4179
4796
5565
658T
3919
4141
4214
4801
5705
6609
3920
4142
4218
4802
5734
6645
91.28
3923
4143
4224
4884
5737
6695
715
3925
4144
4225
4885
5738
6708
7165
3939
4145
4251
898
5815
6747
7208
3943
4146
4252
4899
5893
6855
7209
3944
4147
4253
4907
5894
6872
7856
3957
4148
4270
4920
5895
6881
7259
3976
4149
4271
4921
5896
6882
7258
3980
4150
4426
4922
5897
6883
7265
4007
4151
430
4953
5903
6890
7266
4008
4152
4464
5066
5914
6898
7267
4046
4153
4473
5067
5939
6899
7248
4054
4154
4479
5111
5940
6900
7249
4055
4155
4480
5112
5944
6901
7250
7525
6056
4156
4495
5223
5953
6952
7261
7554
4057
4157
4535
5239
5963
6960
7281
7556
4058
4158
4548
5297
6038
7025
7882
7537
4060
4159
4549
5320
6089
7047
7887
v501
4061
4160
4561
5326
6076
7055
7306
4062
4161
4654
5365
6080
7066
7321
7553
4073
4162
4666
5431
6081
7074
7328
7555
4088
4163
4667
5490
6117
7075
7325
7695
4000
4164
4770
5509
6123
7076
7327
7740

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.94)
7788
S6s1
s0s6
9510
7788
8847
9611
0040
7754
8097
8564
8948
9515
006S.
7756
8098
8568
8095
9522
9066
10805
7758
8100
8581
9110
95
10014
10007
7762
8157
8606
9140
9524
10016
10888
7763
8227
8655
9175
9530
10017
10800
7764
8877
8636
9176
9531
10018
10890
7765
8878
8637
9177
9550
10158
10001
100
77.96
8294
8648
9208
9560
10263
10898
10608
7797
8296
8692
9267
9561
10864
10895
10606
7798
8302
8693
9331
9566
10265
10895
7799
8385
8694
9352
9572
10866
10096
100ms
7800
8365
8695
9367
9573
10867
10897
20646
8061
8366
8698
9375
9576
100
10
10001
8052
8367
8817
9388
9616
10869
10899
10705
8368
8745
9397
9788
10270
10800
10700
8055
8373
8765
9400
9737
10871
10301
10700
8410
8803
9488
9751
10273
10802.
10711
8087
8411
8830
9435
9791
10274
10322
10748
8058
8422
8831
9440
9805
10875
10335
10745
8059
8423
8832
9456
9857
10876
10343
10770
8060
13429
8833
9459
9871
10277
10345
10778
8061
61
8841
9480
9872
10278
10387
10773
8068
8489
8843
9497
9907
10279
10413
10779
8043
8630
8845
9509
9911
1028D
10414
10781

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.95)
10798
11867
11805
10006
11986
11817
18667
10817
11859
11030
18670
10954
11860
11850
187
13074
10856
11268
11870
12754
15075
10057
11268
11876
12795
13100
10863
11278
11898
12818
13101
10876
11273
11955
12840
13103
10891
11274
18018
18908
13104
15810
10892
11292
12019
12904
13107
15846
10893
11297
12036
12984
13108
10894
11298
12037
12933
13121
10895
11330
18088
12934
13122
1350s
10898
11331
12539
12946
13133
18874
10900
11338
12540
12963
15136
13377
10981
11462
12543
32970
18150
18495
10088
11464
12548
12972
13151
11000
11494
12554
12977
13152
13480
11033
11547
12573
12978
13157
11038
11549
12574
12979
13158
11114
11594
12575
18980
13175
11169
11611
12621
12990
13176
11698
11204
11699
18622
12997
15179
11238
11700
18651
18998
13190
11255
11768
12641
12999
15203
11256
11789
18655
13000
13245
Subtotal
773pieces @$1,000
Total

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
ANNEX
IV

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.92)
Docember 31st, 1041.
of the paymeat of interest on the bonde eemeted in
or United States currenetes issued or assumed by your empy.
or te copon
icuntry or the ri
f clairror the
1tby the go
orlorated you
shall ay in Japenose currency itlin this country o and arer
January, 1st, 1942.
The computation of the sum of Japamese ourremey of the
preceding paragraph shall be made at the rate of exake
fixed by the Miaister of rimance or designated by the
of Tinance at the date of pymunt or suoh money.
The foregoing are ordered under the provisiem ef rtte
87 of the Regulation of the Emforcement of Foreigm Exehmmge
Control Law.
Okinobu Ka

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.95)
1. of the payment of interest on the bonds meted in 
United States currencies issed or assumed by your eem
desigmted hostile natianals' blocked accoumt at the
Spooio Bank.
The eomputation of the sun of the Japamese curremey fer 
payment of the preceding peragraph shall be made at the 
of exchange officially fixed by the Minister of Fimanee
desigmated by the Ministry of Finance at the date ef 
ment. In this case for the coupons payable at eptir
computation shall be made in accordanee with the demetee
value of ourreney.
2. Subsequent to the payment made to the desigmated hessfls
nationsls' blosked acceunt in accordanee  th the precems
seation 1, if (1) the coupons were presoated in his comy.
or (2) the claims for peyment wmre mde ader the right of el
for the interest payment, certiried by the government offieimt
against ∞upons destroyed by fire or perforated, or (s) theme
payable at the place shown in the foreign bond indenture were
paid at sueh place, the repayment for sush sum shall be made
from the designated hestile nationals? blocked account.
The computation of the sum of Japanese ourrenoy for such
repayment of the preceding paragraph shall be made at the
rate of exchange officially fixed by the Ministor of Finames
or desigmated by the Ministry of Pinanoe at the date of

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.78)
, o or  s
tall be mdea eerdse 
y,noihsanins  urey
to the peresn presested sush cowpons or the alatment ser
interest payment.
.Th
esi n ted hostile els
nooount orttttbove hall
th
beg Bureu  on spar tly. The foin  d
under the provision of rsiele lt of the Impertal eréimmee
for the Enforeement of the ostile Natiemals' Prepesrty
Gemtrol Law.
Okimebu Kaym

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.95)
NOTE
1.
The remaing sum after dedueting the following
the mggregute amount of the inte: est payment (exclusive
reacquired coupons) falling due on or after January lat,
(1) The coupons presented in this country within one month
from tae dto oi inter st pujent.
(2) The payments mace within one month from the date of er
payment against the right of claims for intereat paymont.
certified by the government official, against coupons
destroyed by fire or perforated.
(3) The sum of payment norn within one month from the date 
interest payment out or those puyments made at sush pl
as stipulated by the foreign bond indenture where the 
is payuble.
2.
of the interest payment due before the end of Deeember,
1941, those coming under the following iteme.
(1) The remaining sum cutstanding over one month later from t
interest payment date after the payments were made in this
country out of the money retained from remittance, abroad
aginst tno coaal reuireu djunt oi interost pyment
(oxelusive of the reacquired coupons).
(2) For those, for which no remittance of interest fund was
made abroad, the remaining sum outstanding over one month
later from the date of interest payment after the payment
in thia country were made (exclusive of reacquired coupons)

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.91)
ANNEX
V

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.95)
THE HOSTLLH MATI HAL'S PROPEHTY COTEROL PA
(Law No. 99. Premulgated on Desember 2ak. 1eat)
Article l. The Government, 1f deemed it necessary, may appeams
custodian for the hostile national's property and plase it
his oustody.
The hostile national's property referred to in the presens
Law means the property (including enterprise, business, or ea
1tal contributed theroto) colonging to or being kept in mstedy
by a hostile state, lustlle netisnal or -uy ouner person pre
soribed by ordinance.
Article 2. ith regard t: the hostilo national's property, he
Government may order the sale thereof to a person desigmased b
the covernmont or uny other necessary matters relating to seid
property as provided by rainance.
Article 3. Any person who is obliguted to a hostile state, hostile
national or any other person presoribed by ordimammse shall be
diachar ed frcn such obli tion when she payment or dolivery of
money or commodit: respectivarly, w ich ls an objeet of the
obligation, as been ade to the person designated by the Gov
ornment in accordance with, an order issued under the prevision
of the preceding Article or a direction of the Government under
said order.
Article 4. 1f und wien asy pperty(ineluding enterprise, bmsiness
or capital contributed therete) belonging so or being kept in 
custody by the hcstile state, hostile national or any other por-
son prescribed by ordinance has been placed under the custody
as provided in Paragraph 1 of Article 1. such state or person
shall not effect isposal or perform any other acts over such

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
weperty (inoluding enterprise, business er eapétal
theroto).
Necessary matterstn connestion with the custody
dian other than those provided in the pr:ceding Paragraph
be preseribed by ordinance.
Artiole 5. Any uot perforned 1: a foreign state with the objoss
of acquisition or diaposal f those mentioned herounder by the
hostile state, hostile natiunal, or uny sther person preseribe
by ordinance shall be void unless sanction is siven by the Go
ernment.
l. Movable or immovable property, located in the State.
2. interprise, business or capbtal contributed theroto,
located i: the State.
3. Jupanese seuurities.
4. Jbligation of the State or of any peraon in the State.
Artiole 6. With regard to the hostile nati nal's property which i
placed under the oustody under the provision of Paragraph 1 of
Artiole l, if there uresstatutory provisions for registratiom 
recording applicuble thereto, the registration or recording re-
gurding such custody ahall be filed with as provided by ordinamee.
al'tiele 7. The expenses required for the custody provided in Par-
agruph 1 of Artlole 1, may be defrayed from the hostile matiomal's
properties belonging to the state or person concerned.
Artiole 8. Any person who acquircs, disposes, conceales, destroys
or damages the hostile national's property with the objeet to
evade or to interfere with the custody provided in Paragraph 1
of Article 1, shall be liable to penal servitude not exceeding
five yoars ur finu not exceeding ton thousand yen, provided,
however, where the amount equal to three times the vulue of such

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.95)
 matiol's preperty essseds tes thesd
il be not more then the mount egel to three sm
value.
An attempt of the crime in the preceding Paragraph 
be liable to puntshment.
Article 9. Any person who doe not comply with the order stsued
under the provision of Artisle & or the direction or the gov-
ornaont made by said sraer, shall se liaole to penel servitute
not exceeding three years r fine not exceeding en thousand
yen.
Article lo. in case any representative of a juridieal persen, or
agent, euployee or other person engaged in the business of a
person or juridical person commitd an eot of offence as movided
in t:e pr:ceding two artioles in connection with the businem
of the said person or juridical person, not only such offender
shall be punished sut the said permon or juridical persom shall
also be liable to the fines preseribed in the proceding two
artioles respectively.
Article ll. The Hostile National's Property Control Commission will
be established for the purpose to anawer questions to be aubmit-
ted by the Government for iaportant matters in relation to car-.
rying out of tne present w.
The organization and authority of the Hostile National's
Property Control Commission shall ba presoribed by an Imperial
Ordinance.
SUPPLEMENIARY PROVISIONS.
The prosent Law shall be enforced on and after the date
of promulgation.
Any act done in foreign countries by a hostile state, hos-
tile national or any other person presoribed by ordinance on or

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.85)
after Decber o, ll, and prore tue prest  
foree, withs he object of acquialon or aisposal of these 
in Article s, shall re void from the time of sueh aet retrespep

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
VI
ANNEX

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
4
DALANCEHEET
March 31st, 1942
Ujigaws Bleetrie power
Debtors
Croditers
sames of Accounts
Amount (Unit ¥1)
Names of Accounts
-holders' Account
34720.000.00
Share-holders' Account
alled Share Capitel
58,750,000.00
Share Capital
Assets
140,756,004.01
Legal Heserye
iness Equpment
1,694,828.73
heserve Accounts
or Plants
14,729,130.54
Taxes Reserve
mission Lines
24,645,293.30
Kiscellaneous Reserve
etions
28,629,393.74
Long Tern Liabilities
ibution Lines
61,980,952.94
Bonds & Debentures
on
Current Liabilities
Premises
7,066,574.57
a/c payable for
sion Suspense
purchase
1,877,449.62
Interest Unpaid
during
uetion
134,380.57
Unolaimod Dividents
114,132,094.23
Miscellaneous e/o
Payable
of Affiliat-
1es
98,116,557.50
Short Term Deby
Afriliated
Employees' Saving a/e
16,945,000.00
1,070,536.22
Missellameous Ace
81,327,457.h

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.88)
04,116,859.
rillated
Empleyeest Davins
16,945,000.00
Guarentee Degosits
moad Estate
1,070,536.72
iscellancoun Looounts
Current Ascets
1,327,47.18
Matericle ies
1
uspense ruoeipte
s/c re
curitle: eposited
Deposit
10,031.79773
Cab
188,568.45
seellanoous .ccounts
2.207,949.07
Suspense Payment
979,011.40
Prepayments
73,685.75
Bisecunts & Expenses
1,777,457.84
on Bonds
Seoutities Deposited
7,794.00
Centingent Reserve
14,750,000.00
Loss
15,763,294.50
Net Loss for Tais Teru 15, 765, 294.50
total
348,568,798.99
富

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.92)
STATEONT OF PROJIT AND LOSS
From Cot. 1st, 1941 to March 31st, 1942
Ujigawa Elecgrio Power Co
LOBS
Profit
Nemes oi Accounts
Amount (Unit )
ames of Ac∞ unts
Generating Axpenses
122,761.22
Electric Lightning
Power urcnases
1.,927,904.27
lectric ower
Transaission c.penscs
120,936.
Llectric ieating &
Cthers
Substation Lxpenses
9.0.
Miscellaneous Income
Distributior xpenscs
1414
fron services
Installstion on onsumern
209,8.0:92
Prenises xperses
Business Expenses
60c,0l.2
Electric uppl n:ri e 7, 84,7.
Prorit
Potal
Total
24,468,700.76
Generel Expenses
1,610,704.51
Electric Supply Enter-
prise Profit
Taxes
520,115.20
Dividents & Interest on
Interest xpenscs
70.32
Becurities
Losses on Jed o.
7,507.39
Interest Income
Amortizetion or  i:count
545.42
Miscelleneous Income
on Jonds
Miscelleneous x .ses
101,647.96
Business Profit
.4,.
Potel
Total
11,066,71.08
Losses on Furonuse of
4,041.31
Business Profit
Bonds
Bad Loan Recovered
Losses on Valuation or 14,539,2.37
lixed Assets
Profit on Tedemption of
Securities ritten
Incidental Losscs
4,282,333.40
Retirement Allowance
Employees' hetirement
5,669,177.80
Reserve
Allowances
Net Loss for This Term
Totel
24,588,847.08
Total

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.87)
MATOENT OY PROFIT AND LORS
From Cet. 1st, 1941 to varch 31st, 1942
Ujlgawe ileogrio Power Co., Ltd.
LOBS
ProlIt
8
t)
ons
es
40.7
24,400,700.76
1,C10,704.51
Loetrlu 21y ter- 7, 4,752.80
pr:c .roiit
0110.20
ividents 1nterest n k,,ssb.91
7
Becuriti:s
7.007.3
Interest Icome
45,01.07
scount
4
iscel leneous Income
395,842.07
101,347.98
nses
6,354,030.85
Total
11,686,7:1.65
11,866,721.65
48,041.31
Business Profit
6,354,530.85
Bad Loan coovered
332.34
14,509,244.37
Profit on Iedemption of
12,405.
Becurities .ritten mank
4,282,333.40
iketirement Allowance
2.458,204.2
5,669,177.80
Reserve
15.908,204.2
Net Loss for This Term
09.00

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.91)
640,843,30081
672,429.32
668,840,68516
657,112.78304
ixed Assets
Power Plants
38.660.55807
41.466.63250
43.154,94703
42,715,41902
63.816.45071
65.488.36479
68.969.89347
68.263,31378
Transmission Lines
89.050.78741
92.941.96118
88,370.00783
85,538.76370
198.561.82710
208.471.71731
2.85.73866
197,488,51779
Dietribution Lines
ess Equipments
15,324,59274
17.130.05563
17,412,42816
17,169.503
10.601,43881
9.096.56314
10.614.25132
15,222.89504
for Construction
164.407,24419
173.436.31653
172,542.26155
169,054,943
mation Accounts
liation on Commers
60.778.79718
64.154.4817
62.935.93496
61,720.03005
242.20976
237.22989
215.2258
Osber Enterprise Facilities
74.411.08032
74.734.83857
74.980.2803
75,192.15155
84.464
ents to Affiliated
78.680,64990
72,680,64990
72,089,67010
72.089.67010
t日 to
346,52510
346.52510
346.52510
 investments
1,730,3702
2.298.64877
2.544.8
2.755.95575
100.832.33513
102.799.99283
88.053.61096
102.799.551
dise & Stores
36.596.10572
40.837.53765
40.072.09066
38.883.
11.86.1170
18
13.905
re'Ascounte Rece1vable 14.908.21sh3
2.382.4902
2.373.18

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.95)
32s, 1945
DO
52,747,07500
747,078
00
45,000.000
00
45.000.000
00
45.000,000
00
646.037,80437
630:597.709
65
622.107.106
26
556.188.533
75
575.580.36898
38:710.347
83
38.383.824
04
38.171.73038
43,31378
70.387,672
30
68.708.321
94
68,870.857
20
69.72
38,76370
83.786.067
88
83.299.403
11
83.018.762
19
84.8
188,51779
188,111,545
99
186,549,720
53
202.551.281
96
235
.86
69,50283
13,792.995
13
18,008,336
63
16,104.708
51
20
28,89594
73,484,036
35
26.139,669
70
30.662.045
90
39,87
054,946B3
183.834.440
78
139.105.257
80
136,201.588
84
135.704
720,03005
0
92.15155
84,464,43239
77.005,930
62
8.006.083
51
5,969.854
54
8,363,988
05
5.98
89,67010
70,439,67040
20.439,670
40
1,586,330
75
1,586.33
75
1.566.330
75
1.5
46,52510
11,292,56218
3.686,037
18
3,698.037
18
1.443,729
18
3,723.037
18
1
55.95575
2.732.1991
2.880.223
04
2.721.715
58
2.939,794
61
3.074,680
12
3.0
99.551b6
80.962.22992
93.392.509
62
108.133.053
69
141,195,104
30
289.300,051
70
85.22156
38,794,34617
38.474,883
43
29.274.443
17
31,353,098
97
50.346.783
93
108.1
7
14.763.70428
18.562.263
36
19,641,184
09
29.077.812
30
27.497.665
2.258.33158
8.316,447
48
399,140
07
633.434
43
8.097
6,888.01880
10.411.138
15
7,592,85384
7,873.081
04
15
2.105.708
1.898.200
07

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.92)
20,861.1
27.501.72082
34,076,95007
its
3.185.31920
3.161,51920
3.216.50m0
3,332,00100
coourities
Patian Daposited per
Contra
10.482.55020
8.979.0000
7.813.67500
16,080.29020
Loans
16.636.74015
15,695.93031
10.889.59183
13.216.11737
Bundry Accounts
7.244.78537
7,902,93890
1,972,93472
5,281,67113
Suspense Payments
340.2594
1.848.90378
478.77641
634.46338
Prepayments
855,81400
1,811,63000
Discount Sapenses an
5.424,60300
7.475.33473
6.722,5386
6.054,4700
Discount on Bonds aucceeded
452,76000
388,08000
582,12000
517,44000
Construction Expenses
190.0000
Sesurities Deposited per
224.73900
354,21344
170.43800
Contra
6,246.2915
Doferred Dobts
5.982
Discount Expenses on Bonds
323,40000
Construction Expenses
(9,400,00600)
(10,000,00000)
(9,850,000)
00)
(9,710,00000)
(9,550,00000)
atingent Reserve
mosial Assets
Sar Insuranse Accounts
Spesial Deposits
Assets abroad
901,239600
90s,867,soboo
879,723,32649
915,927,34561
Total

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.92)
80.78049
150.850
00
116,305
00
90,655
00
89.015
00
4.028,913 00
4,086.235
00
3,706,207
00
4.585.487100
4.391,44700
4,028,913
00
4.080.235
UU
3,706,207
00
194,04000
(00)
(9,000,00000)
62.983,54665
59.483.68377
39.706.437 20
5.747.340161
20,287.43344
53.736,343116
2,989.6761 01
15016
815,365,05224

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.96)
LCSS
of aecounts
Terms
Sopt. 3uth 1942
Term ended
Term ended
March, 31st
1943
Term ended
Sept. 30th 1943
Term ended
arch, 31at
1944
Sept. 30th
Term
69,255,206
79
77,624,045
37
76,387,349
32
81,36,312
46
78,667,14188
deetricity Supply Expenses
989,035
40
1,27,261
7
1,253,837
95
1,489,025
31
Power Plm t Expenses
41,877,105
69
44,486,984
74
44,106,66
5
46,415,129
23
Power Purchases
1,144,490
30
1,514,05
70
1,186,934
53
1,621,289
86
ssmisston Expenaes
1,344,239
31
1,81,31
82
1,873,383
59
2,046,415
91
Substation Expenses
4,374,762
33
5,858,422
97
5,555,89
12
5,387,238
93
Distribution Expenses
6,723,214
60
7,4,900
07
7,440,957
7,840,763
36
Business Expenses
Reserve for Employees' Retire
630,000
J0
75
0
640,000
00
910,000
00
980,00000
ment Allowance
9,462,914
12
1451,54
91
11,154,989
72
12,05,141
27
14,457,596|51
Depreciations
Installation on Consumers
2,702,973
74
3,501,844
22
,216,332
84
3,520,308
59
Fremises Expenses
6,471
22
4,186
44
13,445
21
Other Enterprise Expenses
14,327,444
6
18,352,567
62
19,539,57
72
18,865,832
39
16,239,434177
her. Expenses
5,16,561
40
8,,
09
9,578,728
31
9,634,519
39
9,862,35185
axes & Public Charges
6,547,569
60
6,986,621
85
6,522,073
24
6,223,343
15
5,619,89177
Interests
artization of Deventure
0
0
36,580
75
Loatation Margin
soval of Fixed Assets
10,25359
698,239
45
1,002,341
10
913,353
07
757,1
y Expenses
1,779,45527
1,834,22438
1,740,84446
2,094,61676
Expenses
en of Discount on
800,60474
752,79787
658,48086
17,778,18178
17,011,07640
17,760,8

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.96)
Tarm ended
Term ended
term ended
Term ended
Term ended
Term ended
1944
Sopt. 30th 1944
Marah 3lat
1945
Sopt. 3. th 1945
March, 31st
1946
Sopt. 3th
1946
March Slat
46
78,667,141|28
77,409,691
73
56,463,010
31
88,596,961
81
239,970,371
71
300,076,87
31
1,080,639
97
3,112,780
26
9,570,735
33
12,317,91€
23
19,129,574
63
20,556,731
37
73,106,788
79
132,811,073
1,340,096
83
2,195,23
0O
0,604,084
65
6,156,17631
91
2,412,955
84
5,307,849
82
12,868,477
72
15,570,78500
83
6,469,992
65
15,02.932
95
42,966,065
66
41,507,378|66
86
14,500,393
88
29,494,891
97
81,635,732
71
85,552,14994
00
980,000
00
1,060,000
00
980,000
00
2,165,000
00
3,233,000
00
7,500,00000
87
14,457,596|51
13,863,865
63
10,539,356
51
10,745,752
44
10,985,48685
59
16,259,434
77
16,435,977
47
32,740,645
38
54,345,990
94
41,250,01d
46
54,071,300
9,862,351
55
10,796,359
19,451,971
97
25,883,054
13
12,917.377
79
30,458,4
15
5,619,891
77
5,402,647
57
5,209,223
53
4,791,03
39
5,029,477
93
7,980,518
362,535
59
362,534
00
380,088
00
380,0
971,73
45
2,687,981
03
4,457,654
51
757,10248
236,9700
6,754,188
84
20,621,391
18,474,280
25

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
ANNEX VII

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.93)
DESCRTPPI N P PROPE TES COMPRISING
THE FACT RY OLTE WITO G D SEOURING
UJIGANA
TRIC POWER COMPANY. LIMITED.
FIRST MORTGAGT 7% SINATNG FUND GOLD BONDS
AT THS TIVE F CANCELLATION P MORTGAGES THEREON
(October, 18, 1943)

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.88)
Pastory Estate
NO8
Local Court.
Date of mortgage
subjected
May, 2, 1925.
Date of cancallation
of mortgage registra-
tiou
vu. cellation mace under the mw remsing
to the ireatment of the Foreign Boi
1)
The Portion of properties owned by The Japan Electrio
Ceneration and Transmission Jo., Itd.
A) hydro-Electric :ower Plants
1 
ji-cno, use-un, oto-fu.
zj shizuawa
 -,  , t-fu.
3 mine
Tabara-muru, isuzuki-run, Ayoto-fu.
4Ng
Tots uwa-muru, roshino-gun, Nara-kon.
5
vada
Tonkawa-mura, Loshi no-gun, ara-ken.
dv Tonkawn
oukawu-mur, Yoshino-gun, Hara-kon.
7 Shirakawa
Shirakuwa, amikitaama-mura, Yoshino-
uar-.
Bly Suriko
    , osinogun, 
9yLuwai
, iiun, Nara-ken.
1
11
B) Steam Power Plant.
1V Fukuzaki
itaf ukuzaki-cho, inato-tu, Jaaka-hi.
2Kisugawa
Sibaya-ono, Sumi yoani-ku, saka-zhi.
(desinated us the reparation solection by the Sic.A.P.)
18, Au ust, 1040)
C) Substations.
1  agasone
Nag lsone-cho, Sazai-shi.
a Kobe. o. 1.
hada-ku, hobe-shi.
3 V-kobo. o. 2.
Suma-ku, Kobe-shi.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.93)
rushim
Fushimi-ku, Kyoto-shi.
5 Neyagawa
Neyagawa-mura, Kita-kawaehi-gun,
D)
Switching stations.
1Vashiya
Asniya, Ashiya-shi.
2Tsukaguoh1
Minamino, Itami-sbi.
3 Suita
Suita-shi.
Suminodo
Tatetsu-mura, daka-kawacni-gun, Osakm-fu.
Kakubu-mura, inami-kawachi-gun, Osakm-fu.
Kashihara
6 Shibo
Lono-mura, Kita-kawachi-gun, Usaka-fu.
7) Tonkawa
Tenkawa-mura, Yoshino-gun, Nara-kon.
B Jyodo No. 2.
yodo-cho, Yoshino-gun, Nara-kon.
II) The portion of properties owned by the Kansai Eleetrie
Supply Co.. Ltd.
A) Hydro-Electric Power Flants.
1VAltaal
altaai, rawagami-mura, Kansaki-gun,
unigu-ken.
2 Fayao
Kayao, Yamagami-mura, Lansaki-gun,
Sri-e-ken.
3 Kiwada
Kiwada, Higashi-Üguri-mura, Aichi-gun,
3higa-ken.
Anegawa
Rigasii-kusano-mura, Higashi-asai-gun,
Sniga-ken.
5. Ko1sumi
Ibuki-mura, Sakato-gun, Sniga-ken.
6V Takatokigawa
Takatoki-mura, iko-gun, Shiga-ken.
7. Ibuki
Ibuki-mura, Sakato-gun, Sniga-ken.
8VKusanokawa
Kami-kusano, Higashi-asai-gun, Shiga-ken.
Yoshino
Nakasho-mura, Yoshino-gun, Nara-ken.
101
Kashio
Kashio, Nakasho-mura, Yoshino-gun, Nara-
ken.
11 Sako
Sako, awakami-mura, Yoshino-gun, Narmok

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.92)
Sekiya, Tadasato-mura,
Nara-ken.
18
Osato
Onotani-mura, Minamimuro-gun, Mie-mem.
14
Punada
Funada, Mifune-mura, Minami-muro-gum, Mes
ken.
15Hirano
Oroshi-mura, dinami-muro-gun, Meka,
15.4 Takata
Lakata, lakata-nura, Higumni-muro-gun,
wkynaken.
17Takimoto
Taki oto, guc i-mura, Higashi-muro-gun,
Wakuyama-ken.
18.Nach1
Nachi-machi, Higasni-muro-gun, Wakayama-bem.
B) Substations.
1Noo
Noe Niahino-cho, Asahi-ku, Usaka-shi.
2 Vikuni
Mikuni-non-cho, Higasni-yodogawa-ku, Ommka-
shi.
3Ebie
Ebie, lishi-yodogawa-ku, usaka-shi.
Yamatogawa
Oriono-cno, Sakai-shi,
5Amagusaki
Tsukudu-cho, Nishi-yodogawa-ku, Osaka-ahi.
0KuJO
Kujoninamidori, inato-ku, Osaka-ahi.
Pukuzaki
nitafukuzaki, jigashinomachi, Minato-ku
©saka-shi,
8Dotombori
Ni shi-dotoiabori, Nishi-ku, Usaka-shi..
, -dog-, -i.
10Tachibana
Kita-nambacho, Amagasaki-ahù.
11 Tamatsukur1
Minami-nakadocho, Jigashi-nari-ku, Osaka-ahi.
12Ni sh±noda
Juroku-cho, konotana-ku, Jsaka-shi.
13vSnimaya-cho
Shimaya-cno, Konohana-ku, Osaka-shi.
14  Onkajima
Minami-onkajima-cho, Taisho-ku, Osaka-shi.
15Bhikanjima
Kaei-cho, Konohana-ku, Osaka-ahi.
16 Urae
Urae, Nishi-yodogawa-ku, Usaka-shi.
17Ikuno
Ikuno, Tajima-cho, Higashi-nari-ku, Osaka-
shi

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.95)
20
Akagawa-cho, Asahi-ku, Osaka-shi.
19 V zobe
Nada-ku, Kobe-shi.
20sakai
Kita-shimizu-cho, Sakai-shi.
21
Kobayashi-cho
Kobayushi-eho, Taisho-ku, Osaka-shi.
22
Imasato
Dai-imasato-cho, Higashi-nari-ku, maka-
23
Futou
Snibaya-cho, Sumi yoshi-ku, Osaka-shi.
24.
Onito
Onito, Nishi-yodogawa-ku, Osaka-ahi.
25
Sakurajima
Shimaya-cno, Konohana-ku, Osaka-shi.
26
Kawarayacho
Kawaraya-cho, xinami-ku, Osaka-shi.
27
Tsumori
Tsumori-cho, Ji shi-nari-ku, Jsaka-shi.
28
Nagao
Nagaehamadori, Higashi-yodogawa-ku,
Jsaka-sni.
29Sanbo
Yamamotodori, Sakai-shi.
30
UJ1
Uji-cno, luse-cun, ayoto-fu.
31
Suita
Suita-shi, Umaka-fu.
32Hanaton
Hanaton-oho, Asahi-ku, Osaka-shi.
33 oda
Hatakeda, "are, Amagasaki-sbi.
34Nakahana
Nakahama, Da1sho-mura, Muko-gun, Hyogo-ken.
35Kuise
Imafuku, Amagasaki-sbi.
36V Naruo
Naruo-mura, Muko-gun, Hyogo-kon.
37
Gonel jima
Gohe1 jima-cho, N1 shi-yodogawa-ku, Osaka-sht.
38
Torishima
Torishimn-cho, Konohana-ku, Omaka-ahi.
39
Kyoto
Higaahi-kujyo-matsuda-cho, Shimokyo -ku,
Kyoto-shi.
40
Wakae
Tamagawa-mura, Naka-kawachi-gun, Jaaka-fu.
41
Nippon Sonryo
Kasugade-cho, konohana-ku, Osakm-shi.
42
Amagasaki Soiko
Daiaho-mura, Muko-gun, Hyogo-ken.
43.
Osaka Soda
Daitakasu-cho, Amagasaki-shi.
 Naguhama
nokusho-mura, Sacata-gun, Shiga-ken.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.94)
Hino-mura, Gamao-gun, Sniga-kem.
46Hikone
Koyabu-cho, Hikone-shi.
47.
Toyosato
Toyosato-mura, Inugami-gun, saige-em.
48
Hachiman
Hachman-cho, Gamao-gun, Sniga-ken.
49
Yoka-ichi
Yoka-iohi-cho, Kansaki-gun, Sniga-mem.
50
Notogawa
Goho-mura, Kansaki-gun, Shiga-ken.
51
minakucui
minakucni-cho, zoga-tun, Sniga-keng
52
shohoji
Shohoji, Hikone-shi, Shiga-ken.
53
Maibara
Maibura-ch, akata-gun, Shiga-ken.
54-Shinjo
Shinjo-cho, Kita-katsuragi-gun, Nara-kem.
55
Suriko
Shimokitayama-mura, Yoshino-gun, ra-ke
56
Gose
e-c), inamikatsuragi-gun, Nara-ke.
57
Matsuyama
be-r, Uda-gun, Nara-kon.
58
Snimobaohi
Shimobuchi, yodo-cho, Yoshino-gun,
Nara-ken.
59
Gojyo
Gojyo-cho, Uchi-gun, Nara-kon.
60
Pashitsuj1
Kashitsuji, Sakaaibe-mura, Yoshino-gun,
Vara-kem.
61 /Puki
Fuki-mura, Ito-gun, Wakayama-keu.
62Bhingu
Shingu-shi, Wakayama-ken
kimoto
rii-mura, inami-muro-un, Mie-ken.
uur
uc.i-cno, nigashi-muro-gun, hakayama-kon.
65. N1 shimuki
Ni shimuki-cho, "i ga sni -muro-gun, Rakayame-
ken.
C) Switching stations.
1
Uji
uji-cno, -uso-un, Kyoto-fu.
2
Ima zu
imazu, vishinomiya-shi, Ryogo-keu.
Shibajima
hamacho, ligushi-yodogawa-ku, usaka-shi.
4iejim
Himejima-cho, Nishi-yodogawa-ku, Oaakm-smi.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.94)
Kitahamm, Higaahi-ku,
f gode
Oyodo-cho, Yoshino-gun,
7 Nakamasu
Nakamasu, Oyodo-cho, Yoshimo-gu
Nara-ken.
D) Others.
14 Test factory
Honjo, Lawasaki-cho, igashi-yodogawa
Osaka-ani.
2
Ichoka worohouse
Katsura-cho, 1nato-ku, Osaka-shi.
Remarks:
Beside, the Factory Estate includes properties of
corporation's trunsmission lines, telephone lines, distma
tion lines and installations ror customors.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 1.00)
ANNEX
VIII

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.96)
46. 4.6 (13, A. 1046) /
...).
MEMORANDUM POR : THE IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
THROUGH
: Contral Liaison Ofrice, Tokyo
SUBJRCT
Reparations Selections of Steam-Klestrie
Power Cenerating Plants.
1. The Imperial Japanese Government is notified that all
electric generating plants designated on the atteoked list are
hereby taken into eustody and control of the S.C.A.P.
2. This list designated plants subject to removal under the
interim reparation program.
3. There will be made available to the Commanding General.
Eighth United States Army, 1l personnel, equipment and applies
deemed necessary by him for the establishment of proper eustedy.
Control & proteotive maintenance.
4. ditain 72 nours of the time or receipt of this meme.
the Imperial Japanese Government will have qualified pepre-
sentatives report to the Commanding General, Eighth U.S. Army,
to receive detailed instructions to accomplish the purpose of
the memorandum.
5. The Imperial Japanese Government will take action to step
imediately all removals of machinery and equipment from the
plants, installations and facilities. No removals will be per-
mitted without specific authority from the Commanding General,
Eighth U.s. Army. Any equipment that has already been removedanm
is essential to the functioning of the plant must be refurmed
or replaced without delay. Instructions for invemtories of
machinery and equipment to be made within the listed installasies

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.97)
pertaiming te the mshinery and equipment, ineluding
instruetion books, arrangement drawings, detailed drawings, and
operating instmuctions must be preserved and made readily aseessi-
b1o.
6. within 60 days of the date of this memorandum, each ple
on the attached list must be prepared and held ready for ime
mediate mhut-down, if so ordered by Goneral Headquarters, Sapreme
Commander for the Aalied Powers. Tne Imperial Japanese Govermment
will promptly take all steps necessary to rearrange the dispateham
of power load in the urea served o. these plants so that the
essential power demands of the areas will not be dependent on them.
If specific plants can't brought to tis state of readiness
within the 6) days period, a written report covering eadn plamt
shall be submitted to the Commanding General, Sth United States
Army witnim 30 days from the date of this darective, outlining
the difriculties involved including a proposed plan for rearrangim
the Joad distribution and te date on which tnis readiness will
be aooomplished.
7. In plants where construotion is not completed, work will
be continued until adoquate protection has been provided for the
machinery and equipment already Inatalled. Whenever poasible, you
will endeavour to expedite and accept delivery of machinery r
quipment needed to complote the plant at the site of conatruetion.
A report on undelivered purohase orders required to complete
the plant will be prepared for submission on request.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.96)
 Proviaions of this memorandum shall not be
preslude immediate shut down and removal of spesifie plss
may be desigmated by subsequent memorandum.
POR THE SUPREME COMMANDER
8
Imel;
John B. Cooley
List of Power Plants.
Colonel, A.G.D.
Adjutant General
Inclumive 1.
Power Plants to be removed for reparatiens
Name of owner
Name of plant
Location
Capacity
Japan Elec. a
Tsurumi
Kanagawa
178,500 ..
Trans. Co., Ltd.
Kisukawa
eaka
63,000
Azikawa
15,000
Note by Japan Elec. Generation & Tranamission Co.
As it is aeomea unnecessury other plants on the
list are omitted.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.71)
ANNEA
In

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.96)
May 16, 1907.
To The National City Bank of New York,
New York.
Gentlemen,
Ro:
Ujigawa Electrio Power Co., Ltd.
7% U.3. Dollar Bonds.
In response to your courtesy extended to
us in the pre-wartime, we were extremely anxious to
roport you since the tomination of the Great War.II
on various matters relating to the jigawa lectric
Power Company's ollar onus w ich couls not have been
advised by us during and after the war.
Now, private conmunications between the
United States and apan are officially allowed and
we enclose herewith two letters addressed to you from
the Kansai Electric upply ., Ltd., successor company
to the Uj1gawa, dated August 5, 1940 and uotober 24,
1946 on the subject or hc status of the Bonds in the
wartime and that of reparation selections of a power
plant formerly mortgaged to secure the Eonds respootive-
ly. Those lotters had been preparou by them to give
you information at the first opportunity and kept by
us ponding for suoh time their mailing be allowed.
we believe the letters contain informations
as you may require an set forth the present and wartime
tatus regarding the onds in general. Should you have
any question in re ar tcreto, kindly write to. us and
we will not fail to answer you as fully as possible.
With regard to the Bonds, we will advise you
more in details later on.
Tours very truly,
The Incustrial Sank of Japan, Ltd.
cigned
Takeo Kurusu
Govermor

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.96)
Osaka, Angut , 
The Industrial Bank of Japan, Ltd.
The Trustee of the Uiigawa Electrio
Power Co., Ltd. First Mortgage 7%
Binking Fund Gold Bon .
Dear Sirs,
In regard to the  jigawa  lectric Power Co., Ltd.
(now ansai lectric Suppl Co., Lta.) .. Dollar Bonds,
we were unable to conmunicate wity tho Hational City Bnk
of New York, the iscal ent, sinco the outbroak of the
War up to now and believe they are anxious to know the
present status of the  ollar onds.
For their information we have prepared and enelosed
herewith a letter of even date addressed to them giving
goneral viows relating to the Tollar Bonds.
Wo shall be lad if you will convey same to the
National City Rank of Yew York as soon as communications
between our country and the nited States of America are re-
opened for tho public anc ellowed to private concerns.
Yours very truly,
The Kansai lectric Supply
Co., Ltd.
President

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
The Watiemal City Bank of New York,
NEY YORK
Dear Sirs;
The Ujigawa Electric Power Co..
Ltd. Pirst Nortgage 7 Sinking
Fund Gold Bonds.
Tie beg to advise you that on April 1, 1942 the
Ujigawa Electric lower Co., Ltd., by the government
order under the Electric Distribution Control Ordinenee,
formed the Kansai Electric Supply Co., Ltd., with a
capital stock of Yen 560,000,000 chiefly subscribed
by electric enterprisers located in prefectures near
Osake ineluding contribution of electric facilities
toward its share capital. Though we, the Kansai Haiden
Kabushiki Kaisha (Kansa1 Electric Supply Co., Ltd.) as
well as Ujigawe Electric Power Co. were vory mxious
to inform you important matters concerning the Ujigawa
U.S. Dollar Bonds, lack of facilities of communications
up to the present sinoe the outbreak of the Great war II
interrupted us to report you. Now taking the first
opprotunity of reopening the communications between
yourcountry and ours we wish to give you informations
on matters important regarding the Dollar Bonds below.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.97)
(1) Organisation of the Kansai Elestrie Smpply
Co., Ltd. (Xensei Maiden Kabuahixi Kaish)
The Electric Distribution Control Ordinanée (Englien
translatlon of which 1s enclosed herewith) was promulgated
on Aug. 30, 1941 in pursuance of the National Jeneral
Vobillzatian Law for purpose of bringing more effective
management and control of electric distribution by mere
ing many enterprisers in Japan. The territory of eleetrie
distribution ir Japan was divided into nine blocs nd
for each of ther one Electric Distribut ion Compeny Limited
("Haiden Yabushikt e isha" in Jape nese which somet ime
is tranalated Electric sup ly co.. itd.) was establishod.
Under the provisions of said Ordinance the government
would elect "Appointee Company" (refer to Article 4), ho
would bocome nucleus of the newly organized company, and
would also order other electric enterprisers, either
private companies or local governments or municipalities,
in the bloc to contrihute electric fucilities owned by
them toward the share capital of t he new ommny.
By the order of t he inister of Communicati one (note:
later the Ministry of Communication being abolished the
Minister of Commerce and Industry is substituted to the
position) dated Sept. 6, 1941 under the provision of
Article & of the said Ordinance, Ujigawa Electric Power
Co. together with Nankai ydro-Electric Power Co., Ltd.
were elected the "Appointee Company" and twelve enterprieers
including Osake, Yobe and Kyoto Municipalities were ordered

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
order to organize the Distribution Company with the tere
Kyoto, Hyogo, Nura, Jhlge and Wakayama.
Ujigawa lectric Fower Co., Ltc. nas become the Kemeei
Electric Supuly Co., s., sno lectric Distribution Cempem
formed under the said rdinance (refer to Article 16 of o
complying with the provisions of the Indenture, establimm 
which wes consummated on April 1, 1942. U jigawa Electrie Power
Co. being absorbed to the ner company, the Ujigawa U.S. Doll
Bonds obligations have autoratically been carried over to th
Fansai Electric us:ly Co., Itd. and also the electrie fmotlt
included in the Factory state securing same have been taken
over as a wholo, by the: and the mortgage thereon.has contimme,
without change, to be subjected thus the rights and interests 
the bondholders having ben fully protected and in no way
impaired as covenanted in the Indentures.
(2)
ayment of frincipai of and Interest on
the Ujigewe Dollar Bonds.
(a) Sinking Funds.
Due to lack of facilities for remittance to you undor
.the state of the War Ujigawa and we were unable to pay the
sinking funds for the Bonds.
(b) Interost Funds.
The interest funds for the sonds were paid by us to the
Trustee, at each due date and the funds ware paid out in the
following manners,
(1) Coupons located in Japan were paid to the

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
Exehange Control Law.
(11) For coupons other than those located in
Japan the coupon monics were paid into the Special Assots
Custody Accounts (later the nare altered to Designated Poroi
Nationals Block Accounts), according to the government order
dated Jan. 22, 1942, 1ssued under the Ordinance purauant to
the Hostile Nationals Assets Control Lam.
The payments to the Block Accounts were made at the
dates one month lster of each interest payment date.
The amounts and dates for the above mentioned coupon
monies are shown in the atteched list.
(3)
Mortgaged Propert1es.
The Ujigawe Electric 'ower Co., Ltd., on Oct. 1, 1941,
contributed its electric facilities toward the share capital
of the Jepan Electric Joneration and Trensmission Co., Ltd.,
by the order of inister of Comunicat fon pursuant to the
rovislon of the Law Coverning the Japan Electric Generation
and Transmission Co., Ttd. The properties, transferred to
the Japan Electric include Uji and other 9 water power plants
with total capacity of 115,90n .. and 7 transmission 1ines.
According to the provision of the Lav relating to the Treat-
ment of the Bonds in connection with lectric Power Control,
the properties trunsferred were still continued to be include
in the Factory Estate and mortgages thereon securing the
Dollar Bonds continued to be subjected. Por consideration

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
of the above contribut ion the Ujigawe received the p
shares mmounting to yen 49,430,550 and cahs yen 15.
As stated in the forcgoing (1) the Ujigawa Eleetrie
Power Co. has becone  a:sa1 lect ic Supply Co. on April
1. 1942 and the mortguge on the pronertics owned by them
remained to continue to o sut ice vntil the "jigawa
Dollar Bonds was usw ed  the covernrent under the Law
Relating to the reatment of the oreim londs of which
conments are given hereafter.
(4) Financial Statements or the Xansai Electric
Supply Co.. Itd.
we enclose herewith for your informetion the Balanee
Sheets and Statements of rofit and Loss of the Ujigawa
Electric rower Co., Ltd., for the term ended Mar. 31,
1942 nd those of Hansa1 Electric Supply Co., Ltd. for
semi-anmual terms ended Sept. 30, 1942, Mar. 31, 1943 md
Sept. 30, 1943, when the Bonds obligations were assumed
by the Japmese Government.
(5)
The "Law Relating to the Treatment of the
Foreign Bonds.
The Law promulgated on  ar. 15, 1943 and you will
find fron the translation of the same which is enclosed
herewith that the Japanese bonds issucd abroad by the
government, municipalities and private companies were (1)
partly converted into domestic bonds with consent of the
holders of the foreign bonds located in Japan, (2) partly,
1.e. other than those converted into domestic bonds, assmed

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
the Japenese Government of the obligations
the prineipel of and interest on the foreign bonds md (s)
upen foregoing assumption made mortgages on the preperties
seouring same and effect of the contract of the foreigm 
have become null and void.
As the result of promulgation of the Law and carrying.
out of the orders under the provisions of same.
(a) Conversion into Domestic Bonds
According to the Law, Regulations and the Govermment
order dated July 2c, 1943, with consent of the holdors.
the Bonds were converted into the Company's domestie bonds
on Sept. 15, 1943 as follows:-
Consideration paid
Domestic Bonds
Cash
The Bonds 1,950,000
7,088,200
9,661.60
The t erms and conditions of the Converaion Bonds deliver-
ed are:
Government guaranteed, maturity 12 years,
1nterest 4.2% p.a. payable Mar. 15 and
Sept. 15, sinking fund 133,000 sem1-annualy
com encing 2 years later.
The Bonds and Coupona effected conversion becoming
null and void under the provision of said Ordinance were
cancelled by perforation by the Trustee.
(b) Assumption by the Japanese Government.
The obligation of payment of principal of and interest

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
en Sept. 15, 1943 as follows:-
Consideration paid to
Government
Domestic Bonds
Cash
The Bonds $874,500
1,779,300
724.79
The terms and conditions of the domestic bonds
delivered to the Government for consideretion are same to
the conversion bonds mentioned in (a).
For your reference we may ade that after the assumptim
has been made the government paid to the holders in Japan
for the Bonds $10,500.
All original indentures, contracts, documents and re-
cords relating to the Bonds have been handed over by us
on Pob. 26, 1944, to the Jananese Government by the
government order.
(c) Registration.
Upon consummation of the conversion and assumption
of the Bonds (1) the legal commercial registration of
our Company was filed on Sept. 29, 1943 that the bond
obligations had been discharged and (2) the legal regis-
tration for cancellation of the mortgages on the Factory
Estates Securing the Bonds was effected on Oct. 18, 1943
according to the provision of the Law relating to the
Treatments of the Foreign Bonds.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.96)
(d) Coupens de before ept. , 1043
paid in Japan, becománg null and void according te th
previsien of said Law, were cancelled by perforatim by
the Trustee.
The documents and other instruments required or
stipulated under the Indenture are now under preparatiem
for forwarding to you and we shall not fail to report
you more fully on the matters deemed necessary in the
near future.
Yours very truly,
KANSAI ELzCTRIC SUPPLY CO., LTD.
President

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
INTENEST PUNDS ON THE UJIGAWA DOLLAR BOND.
Due dates
Amount of
Depository
Amount paid to
interest
of
of ceupon
fund
funds
Coupon-holders Desis.
Requirement
in Japan
Poreign Nat
Block e/e
March 15, $99,172.50
Trustee
292,963.07
128,520.00
(08,932.50)
($30,240.00)
1942.
Sept. 15, $99,172.50
293,112.08
128,371.22
(63,967.50
($30,205.00)
1942.
March 15;
99,172.50
292.963.00
60,661.44
1943.
($68,932.50)
($30,240.00)

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
- Tranalation -
The Kansai Eleotric Supply Company, Ltd.:
Osaka, Oct. 24th, 1946.
Messrs.
The Industrial Bank of Japan, Ltd.
Tokyo.
Dear Sirs,
As you will find fror the contents of our letter dated
Oot. 24th inst. addressed to  essrs. the lational City
Bank of New York, which is enclosed herewith, Kizugawe Ste
Power Plant, formerly subjected to the mortgage to seoure
Ujigawa Electric Power Co., Ltd. 7: Sinking Fund Gold Bonds
has been designated as the reparation selection by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied lowers.
e are desirous to report the fact to Messrs. the
National City Bank of New York, the fiscal agent for the maid
bonds, for their rferrence and beg you kindly convey our
letter enclosed herewith to them at the earliest opportunity
when communications between the United States and Japan
are allowed for mailing same.
Yours truly,
The Kansai lectric Supply Co.; Ltd.
President

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
Wessrs. The Natiemal City Benk of New York,
Now York.
Re: Reparation Selection of a Power Plont
Mortgago to Ujigawa Electric Power Co.,
Ltd. 7 Gold Bond
Dear Sirs,
We beg to inform you that Kizugawa Steam Power Plant
(capac1ty 63,000 K.W. located in Osaka), once belonged to
Ujigawa Electric Power Company, Ltd., has now been taken inte
custody and control of the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers and is to be ravoved under the intereim reparatien
programe, in accordance with the memorandm, dated 13 Aag. 194s
notified to the Imperial Japanese Government by the soar, ef
which we are informed by the owner of the plant the Japen
Eleetric Generation & Transmission Co. Ltd., as Per it's letter
dated Sept. 3oth, copy of same being attached.
Kisugawa Steam Power Plant was included in the Paetery
Estate No. 8 of the Fushimi Registry Court under the furiedie-
tion of the Kyoto Local Court formerly mortgaged to seeure
Ujigawa Electric Power Company Ltd. Pirst Mortgage 7% Sinking
Fund Gold Bonds, Obligations of which had been duly assmed
by us on Apr1l 1, 1942 under the "Electric Distribution
Control Ordinance."
The said power plant was transferred on April lst, l9s9
to the Japan Klectric Power Generation & Trensmission Co.,
Ltd., but continued to be subjected to the mortgage to seeure

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.96)
the aid Bemds watil the Govermant's asmptsem
s mede as stated belew.
It is to be noted that, as of September lsth, es, the
obligation of the payment of the principal and interest of
the outstanding bonds has been assumed by the Imperial
Japanese Government, and at the same time the mortgee sem
the bonds has been annuled under the "Law relating to the
Treatment of the Foreign Bonds", of whioh we stated in detell
in our report which we asked the Industrial Bank ef Japem to
convey to you at the earliest opportunity at the date ef
August 5th, 1946.
Thus Kisugawa Power Plant is not now subjeeted to the
mortgage to secure the bonds at all and has no relatiem therete
at present. yowover, recalling that the plant had wwer belems-
ed to the said factory estate, we should like to eall your
attention to the fact that the selection was made fer repere-
tion as mentioned above, and therefore we hereby advise yom
to the offect.
Believing you will have some concern on the matter, the
above information for your roforrence may interest yom.
Yours very truly,
The Kansai Electric Supply Ce., Lod.
Presidmnt

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
- Tramaletion -
The Japen Electric Power Generation &
Tranamission Co., Ltd.
Tokyo, sept. 30th, 1946.
Messrs. The Kansei Electric Jupply Company,
Ltd., Osaka.
Deer Sirs,
Re:
Kisugawa rower Plant Designated
as reparation Selection.
As you will find from the memorandum of the scar
dated August 13th, 1946, addressed to the Imperiel
Japanese Government, copy of which is enelosed here-
with, Kizugawe 3team Power Plant is included in the
list of those properties which have been desigmated as
the reparation selection under the interim programme.
Kizugawa Fower lant belonged to the Factory
Bstate formerly mortgaged to secure Ujigawa Electrie
Power Co., Ltd. First Yortgage 7& Sinking Fund Gold
Bonds, obligations of which were assumed by you.
It is to be noted that when tho obligation of
payment of the principal of and interest on the said
bonds has again been assuned from you by Imperial
Japanese Government, mortgage on the properties
seguring the bonds has been annuled in accordanee w

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.89)
lhe
oe, m therefre, ne reletien esists
plamt and the Bonds at present. Hewever, reeall
fast that the plant had ever been subjeeted to the
mortgage, we inform you above for yeur reference.
Truly yours,
The Japen Electrie Power
Generation & Transmission
Co., Ltd.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.95)
A.0. 887.6 (15, Aug. 1946) E88/IN
(S.C.A.P. IN L1S1)
APO SOO
13, kngs
MEMORANDUM FOR : THE IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERIMENT
THROUGH
CENTRAL LIAISON OFFICE, ToLTo
SUBJECT
Reparations Seloctions of Steam-Elestrie
Power Generating Plants.
1. The Imperial Japanese overnment is notified that all
toam eleotric generating plant esi nated on the attaohed
list are hereby taken into cnstody ane control of the S.C.A.P.
2. This list desi matoc plants subject to romoval undor
the interim reparation rogram.
3. There will be ma e available to the Commanding Gonoral,
Eighth United States ar 11 personnel, equipment and uppli
deamed necessary by him for the eatablishment of proper oustody.
Control & protective maintenance.
4. Within 72 hours of the time of receipt of this momo.
The Imperial Japanese covernment will have qualified repre-
sontatives report to the Commanding General, Eighth U.S. Amy,
to receive detailed instructions to accomplish the purpose of
the momorandum.
5. The Imperial Japanese Government will take action to 
1mmodiately all removale of machinery and equipment from the
plants, installations and facilities. o removals will be por
mitted without specific aut ority from the Commanding Goneral,
Eighth U.S. Army. Any equipment that has already been removed
and is essential to the functioning of the plant must be
refurned or replaced without delay. Instructions for inventri
of maehinery and equipment to be made within the listed instal-

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.94)
latiem will be issued at a later date. All resards and
date pertaining to the machinery and equipmont, inelnding
fastures instruction books, arrangement drawings, detailed
drawings, and operatiny instructions must be preserved and 
readily aecessible.
6. Within  ays of the date of this memorandum, 
plant on the attache liut ust be propared and held ready for
immediate shut- own, s ee nsral eadquartor,
Supreme Commander for tc llic owers. The lmperial Japamose
Government will promptly a al? steps necossary to rearrang
the dispatching of pove loa i  areu served by these plant
so that the essential po or s or the areas will not be
depondent on them. If s ooi ic l nts can't brought to this
state of readiness wit i tc  ays perio, a writton report
covering each plant shol c  mittoto the Jommanding Genorl,
8th United states Arm wit in  ays fros the date of this
direotive, outlinin the friculuios iavolved including 
proposed plan for rearmi  lo is tribution and the
. date on which this rou inee wil be nceomwlished.
7. In plant where costructlor is mot completed, work will
bo continued until a eu ate rutccuion ms been provided for the
machinery and equipment alrea installou. henever possibl,
you will endoavour to expecite an accopt delivery of mmohinory
or equipment needed to comploto tix luant at the site of con-
struction. A report on un elivered purchase orders required
to complete the plant will be prepare. for submission on roquost.
8. Provisions of this memoranaum shall not be construed
to preclude immediate shut down and removal of specific plants

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.95)
may be designated by subsequent mmmaran
FOR TIE SUPREME COMDIANDER
8
Inel;
 List of rower Plants
John B. Cooley
Colonel, A.G.D.
Aijutant Genoral
Inclusive 1.
Power rlants to be romoved for reparations
Name of owner
ame of plant
Location
Capacity
Japan Elec.
rauruni
Kanagawa
178,500 K.W.
Trans. Co., Ltd.
lzukawa
Osaka
65,000
Azikawa
1:
15,000
n
Note by Japan lec. oncration Transmission Co.
As it is deemed unnecessary other plants on the
list are omitted.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.92)
SEP 51947
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/8-547
National City Bank ef New York,
55 Wall Street,
New York 15, Now York.
Sira:
The Department of State has reesived frem the Uaited ssates
Politieal Adviser for Japan a Japanese Gevernment repert em the
Kabaskiki Kaiaha (Ujigama Eleetrio Pewer Cempmy, Ltd.). This
repert was provided uader date of August 1, 19%7, by the Civil
Property Castedian, General Neadquarters, Sapreme Cemmamder fer
the Allied Pewers, to whese office the pretestien of the interests
in question has been referred.
A eopy of the repert is emelesed herewith.
Asserding to the informatien subaitted in the melesed repert,
the Japanese Gevermment has assmed all ebligatiene en assewnt ef
interest and principal payments due en the outstanding bends ef the
a moraterie has been dealared with respect to my statates of
limitatiens, pressriptioss, forfeitures, er penalty previsiess
Iavoked by the Japamese civil or ether osdes er laws. A eepy ef the
memerandum dated May 12, 1947, of the Supreme Cammamder fer the
Allied Pewers to the Japanese Gevernment centaining iastrustiems to
this effest is alse enclosed.
Pending redemption of the outstanding bonds, oellestiens of
lapownded asarued income, or any other astien leading te am equit-
akle and mutually satisfastory settlement between the Japesese
Gevernment as the guarantor, the Industrial Bank of Japen, Trastes,
and the National ity Bank of New York as fiseal agent; and/er
8
individual investors, assosiatiens of investers or any egeats
appeinted thereby, the status que of the preperty and righss in
V
question will remain unohanged.
A elaim
a-1
Dis

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.93)
11
1507
-2-
A alaim may be filed against the Japenese Gevermment fer
menstary less during the peried from maturity or redemptiem of
the bends to the date of ultimate reeevery of fande by the bend-
holder. Hewever, no preeedures have as yet been estaklisked for
adjudieating such alaims, and Japan is not in pessessiem of the
foreign mxshange mecessary to permit transfer of mounts se
recovered.
Very truly yours,
Fer the Loting Seeretary of State:
SWD
Edward w. Doberty
Assistant Ohief
Division of Financial Affairs
Enclosure:
As dessribed.
SWD
FN:EWDoherty/ag
FN
JK
20/E
8/27/47
(Mr, Corlies)
OR
SBP 5 947

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.97)
CHICAGO, BURLINGTON & QUINCY RAILROAD COMPANY
R. A. Campbell
PASSENGER
DEPARTMENT
Mark Modglin
General Agent
Traveling Passenger Agent
A. Q. Sudhoff
322 No. Broadway, St. Louis 2, Mo.
P. C. Adams
District Passenger Agent
Phone Central 6360
Passenger Agent
W. H. Bange
P.L. Bair
City Passenger Agent
City Ticket Agent
D
August 15, 1947
ans F: gilelis: gw
AUG201947 8-26-47
Secretary of State,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Sir:
ne
Referring to your acknowledgment of June 27,
1947, file FN.
In that acknowledgment you advised the department
would give consideration and reply at a later date. I
understand it is necessary to file a notice of claim based
on the ownership of securities of former enemy countries
before September 2, 1947, with the Office of Alien Property
on form APC-1C.
If it is necessary for this form to be filled
in this case, will you please send me copy for filing.
Yours truly,
CS
General Agent.
A
RAC/rw
11951
FILED
R
C:

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.96)
OCT 91947
In reply refer to
IN
BONDHOLDERS/8-1547
My dear Mr. Campbell:
Reference is made to your letter of August 15, 1947,
regarding the filing of a olaim with the Orrice of Alien
Property, Department or Justioe, Washington, D. C.,
relative to your $1,0o0 Imperial Japanese Government bomd.
The Department has transmitted to the Attorney
General, for appropriate action by the Orrioe of Alien
Property,.copies of your letters or June 19, 1947 and
August 15, 1947, with a request that the Orfice or Alien
Property send to you the necessary forms in conneotion
with this matter.
The Department will make a record, for such use as
may be found appropriate, of the 1nformation you have
furnished, but in order that there may be no misunder-
standing as to the signirioance of its acceptance of
the data, it is believed adivsable to set forth briefly
the Department's general position relative to suoh
obligations.
The Department coneiders that investment in foreign
securities is primarily a private transaction into which
CS/A
the purchaser voluntarily enters after caloulation of
the risks involved. In the case of dollar bonds guar-
anteed by or issued by a governmental sntity, ss was
the bond to which you refer, while the Department does
8
not negotiete directly on behalf of American holders,
it does endeavor to render such assistance as it ppro-
priately oan to such holders or their representatives.
In this
20
Mr. R. A. Campbell, General Agent,
Chioago, Burlington & Quinoy Railroad
Company,
FCc.H
322 North Broadway,
St. Louis 2, Missouri.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
In thís eonnestion, attention may be called to the Fereigm
Bondholders Proteetive Council, Incorporated, 90 Bread
Street, New York, New York, established several years ege
to serve as a central representative body. The deuseil
was ereated with the encouragement or the Department, but
operates on its own responsibility. The Couneil is
interesting itselr in the dollar bonds issued and guaras-
teed by the various Japanese governmental entities, and
you may wish to write to it in conneetion with your bends.
Some time ago, at the request of the Couneil, the Depart-
ment transmitted to the United States Politieal Adviser
to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers at Tekye.
a complete statement regarding the dollar bonds issued er
guaranteed by Japanese governmental entities. This state-
ment was sent for the information and use of the Politieal
Adviser and of the appropriate section of the Starf of the
Supreme Commander, and for such action as might be deemed
appropriate in the protection or the American interest
involved.
I think it will be appreciated that the Department
is unable to state at the present moment what provisions,
if any, affeoting such obligations may be ineluded in the
peace settlement, or what provision for slaims arising
from the war may be agreed upon. As you are no doubt
aware, there will be many olaims and demands of dirferent
types against Japan and against persons and munieipalities
in that country, of which such bonds as those referred te
by you will probably eonstitute only e small pars. Ir is
should be found advisable later,that American holders ef
such obligations take further steps relative to them, due
announcement thereor will be made in the publie press.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
James0. Corliss.
Assistant Chier,
Division or Finanoiai Arfairg.
FN:Jceorliss:yw
8-26-47
sis-cR
OFD

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.90)
00: 91947
BONDHOLDERS/8-1547
The Seoretary ef State eneloses for the infermtien
of the Astorney General, and for eppropriate mesiem by
the Orriee or Alien Property, eepies of twe letters,
& Quincy Railroad Company, 322 North Broadway, Saint Lemis
2. Missouri, regarding the filing of a elaim relative to
a $1, 000 Imperial Japanese Gevernment bond held by him.
It would be appreeiated if the Ofriee or Aliem
Property would send to Mr. Campbell the nesessary ferms
in eonneetion with this matter.
Enclosures:
Two lettezs dated
Ju 19 and  15, 1947.
894.57
CS/A
FL14
4
FN:JCCorliss:yw
8-26-47
crug oopy
cR
8-1547

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.97)
OCT221947
MAK161948
My dear Mr. Miyoshi:
Reference 1s made to your letters dated May 13, 1947
8
and August 20, 1947, regarding your Tokyo Elestrie Lighs
6
Company bonds.
f
The Department will be glad, if you are an Amerieam
sitisen, to make a record of your holdings, for sush
future consideration as may be found appropriate. In
order that there may be no misunderstanding regarding the
signiricance of this procedure, however, the fellowing
may be helpful to your understanding or the Department's
polioy in connection with suoh obligations.
The Department considers that investment in fereign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into whish the
purohaser enters after ealoulation of the risks involved.
In sase or default on dollar bonds issued by private enti-
ties, it is assumed thet the holders will be prepered, if
nesessary, to avail themselves of the usual methods te
exeroise any rights they may possess, whenever and where-
ever resort to such measurés is possible. In ease of
default on dollar bonds issued by or guaranteed by govern-
mental entities, it is not the praetice of the Department
to negotiate directly for Amerioan holders, but it does
endeavor to render such assistance as it preperly eam to
sueh holders or their representatives. In this eonneetion
attention may be called to the Foreign Bondhelders
Protective Couneil, Incerporated, 90 Broad Ssreet, New
274
Yerk, New York, whioh was organised several years age to
serve as a central representative body. Alshough it was
established with the eneouragement of the Department, the
Couneil mets on its own responsibility. Some time ago,
at the
Mr. Miyo Miyoshi,
6010 South Harper Avenue,
Chicago 37, Illinois.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.97)
i 2 -
at the request of the Couneil, the Department transmitted
to the United States Political Adviser to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokyo, a complete
statement regarding the dollar bonds issued or guaranteed
by Japanese governmental entities. This statement was
sent for the information and use of the Political Aaviser
and or the appropriate section or the Staff of the Supreme
Commander, and for suoh astion as might be eonsidered
appropriate in the protection of the Amerioan interest
involved. The Department believes that the Couneil is
mindful of the interests or American holders of sueh obli-
gations and that it will, when oocasion offers, take sueh
steps as it considers to be to the advantage or the holders.
You may wish to write to the Couneil in conneetion with
the bonds held by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not in
a position to state now what provisions, if any, affeeting
such obligations, may be contained in the Peace Treaty
with Japan, or what provision for gigims arising from the
war may be made. As you doubtlecs khow, there will be
many olains and demands against Japan, and against Japanese
munioipalities and persons, or whioh muoh obligations as
those to which you refer will probably constitute but 
small part.
Nevertheless, as indicated above, the Department will
be glad to make a record of your holdings for possible
future use, if you are an American citizen. It is suggested
that you furnish to the Department a statement indieating
the date and manner (whether by birth or naturalization)
of your acquisition of American citizenship, and if sitisen-
ship was aequired by naturalization, the name and location
of the court granting citizenship, and the number of the
relative certirioate.
There is also enclosed for your information a cepy
of a press release of the Department dated May 23, 1947,
regarding the possible riling of claims against Japanese
assets vested by the Office or Alien Property. The Depart-
ment is not informed as to whether assets of the Tokyo.
Eleotrio Light Company have been vested, but this informa-
tion, as well as other details relative to the matter, may
io

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.93)
be ebtained by you from the Ofriee or Alien Property
Attorney, Federal Building, Chioago, Illimois.
Bincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
James 0. Corliss
Assistant-Chier, Division of
Financial Arfairs
Enolosure:
Press release.
0T 21 1947
FN:Jocorliss:rt
CED
10/1/47

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.82)
 Clriag. DI.
Aung. 20, 1947
Stale Dept.
Devercon of Jrreign Servide Edm.
21947
894.51
Waskinglou 2.C.
Diow Sio:
Deu the oth of May, ? wrate to you
BONDHOLDERS/8
in quodruplicate staleng -ihat I have
in my forenion:
Tokyo Deuto Cabuskicki Kacsha (Jokys Elce.
Ligher Co. Fed) 51, ooo Oue Thousand Doller)
six ecent Dollar series dece Jeue 18, 1953.
Jatenest pay ahle Freve 15and Dee. 15. Ks. 1018
-2047
I was lold that I would receine
some forne ofa reecipt, ber h
ne
15
a re ceift Jor above- dhaukining yu
in advance, 2 aue,
hery sencenly yours.
(Mi)o Mejoski
57 Mandho des
CS/V
Cai
MIYO MiYosH I
6010 S. HARPER AUE
OF FRNCIN AFFAIRS
Offegly drasited 10/1147
CHICAGO, 37,ILL.
AUG 2 5 1947
FH-J.C. Carlinenl
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.95)
Chicago, Illinois
May, 13, 1947
State Depertment
Division of Foreign Service Administration
Washington D. C.
Dear Sir:-
In compliance with the request of the State
Department, I wish to report that I own one ( 1 )
One Thouscnd Dollor ( 1,Ooo.o0 ) First Mortage Gold
Bond No. 1ole3 of Tokyo Dento Kabushiki Kaisha,
( Tokyo Electric Light Company, Limited ).Six percent
Dollar Series Due June 1, 1953 Interest payable
June 15 and December 15. I am sending this 1etter in
quadrtpliccte as per reque t.
Yours Sincerely,
Miyo Miyo shic
Miyo Miyoshi
NCANL IEFFINRS
6010 S. Harner Ave
Anemered in lettes
Chicago, 37, Illinois
AUG 8 1947
073/3/48
DEPARTMIENT OF STATE

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
In reply refer to
IN 894.31 Bondholders
/8-2547
My dear Mr. Grieve:
BONDHOLDERS/8-2547
Reference is made to your letter of August 25, 1947,
and to the Department's asknowledgment of September 30,
1947, relative to a 6% Tokyo Eleetrie Light Company
$1000.00 bond due in 1953 wh1oh you hold.
The Department will make a record, for sueh use as
may be found appropriate, of the information you have
furnished, but in order that there may be no misunder-
standing as to the significanee of its acceptanee of
the data, it is believed advisable to ses forth briefly
the Department's gemsral position relative to sush
obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreigm
securities is primarily a private transastion into which
the purohaser voluntarily enters after ealeulation or
the risks involved. In the case of seeurities issued
by private entities, it is assumed that holders will
avail themselves or the usual methods to enforee such
rights as they may possess, when resort to these measur es
is practicable. In the ease of dollar bonds guaranteed
by or issued by a governmental entity, as were the bonds
to whioh you refer, while the Department does not nego-
tiate directly on behalr or American holders, it does
endeavor to render such assistanee as it appropriately
can to such holders or their representatives. In this
connection, attention may be called to the Foreigm Bend-
holders Protective Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street,
New
CS/V
Mr. Donald W. Grieve,
61 Nortn Center Street,
Perry, New York.
18-254
hoederel

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.97)
1
一 8-
New York, New York, established several years age to
serve as a central representative body. The Geunsil
was ereated with the eneouragement or the Department,
but operates on its own responsibility. The Counell
is interesting itselr in the dollar bonds issued and
guaranteed by the various Japanese governmental enti-
ties, and you may wish to write to it in sonneetion
with your bond. Some time ago, at the request of the
Council, the Department transmitted to the United
States Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powerd, at Tokyo, a complete statement
regarding the dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by
Japanese governmental entities. This statement was
sent for the information and use of the Politieal
Adviser and or the appropriate section of the Starf of
the Supreme Commander, and for sueh aetion as might be
deemed appropriate in the protection or the Amerieam
interest involved.
I think it will be appreciated that the Department
is unable to state at the present moment what provisions,
if any, affecting suoh obligations may be included in
the peace settlement, or what provision for elaims
arising from the war may be agreed upon. As you are no
doubt aware, there will be many olaims and demands of
different types against Japan and against persons and
municipalities in that eountry, of which sueh bonds as
that held by you will probably constitute only e small
part.
Meanwhile, your attention may be called to the
fast that the Orrice of Alien Property, Department of
Justice, Washington, D. C., has vested many assets of
former Japanese ownership, and these assets may thereby
become available for "debt" claims against the former
owners, under the provisions or Publio Law 671 of the
Seventy-ninth Congress, in the manner and to the extent
provided therein. American holders of bonds of Japanese
debtors may wish to file claims thereon with the Orriee
of Alien Property. The Orrice of Alien Property will
inform olaimants whether any assets of partiouler debtors
bavo

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
have been vested. Uaited states atterneys
slaims, and will furnish forms and instrustion sheets.
issued by the Orrice of Alien Property.
sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of state:
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chier
Division of Financial Afrairs
V
NOV 25 947 P.M.
EN:VwJdnes:rt
11/13/47
CFD
r/s-ce

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.95)
61 No. Center St;
DC/R
Perry, N. Y.
August 25, 1947.
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/8-2547
Department of State
Washin,ton
D. C.
Gentlemen:
Tokyo Electric Li ht Company Ltd
Re:
sace
$1000.00
Due June 15, 1953
This is to certify that I am the owner of the above
listed bond and that I was an American citizen at
Will you please pass this information along to
your department in Tokyo and see that I am on record as the
registered owner of this bond?
If there is any furthor information needed, please let
me know.
Thank you.
Doad N. Sredy.
Very truly yours,
Donald W. Grieve.
DWG:M
OF FINNLCINL AFFADRS
a ch FN far2014P
AUG 2 8 1947
anouered "/13/47
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FNU.10.fanee
JUN11951
FILED

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.93)
JOHN C. WATSON
372 Woodland Ave.
LYNCHBURG, VIRGINIA
August 26, 1947
OCT 91947
Mr. James C. Corliss,
Division of Financial Affairs,
Enemy Alien Bonds
Dept. of State,
Reference: FN 894.51 Bondholders/
washington, D. C.
2-2647
Dear Mr. corliss:
I beg to refer again to my letters to you of
February 26th and May 2nd, 1947 relative to my Enemy Al1en bonds,
and on which you promised, as per your letter of May 28, 1947, a
detalled reply would be made shortly. I have not yet received that
reply, and I am worried as to whether or not I should file a claim
on form APc-Ic for my Hungarian and German bonds before the dead-
6/8-2647
line on September 2, 1947.
I have already filed claims on forms APC-IC for my Japanese
bonds, but have done nothing nothing about filing claim for my
Hungarian and Berman bonds for I was awaiting your promised detail-
ed reply aforementioned to know whether pr not it is in order to
file claim.
I have written also to the Office of Alien Property n
this matter, but they have not the detailed informatia on these
bonds that I sent you in my letters of February 26th and ay 2nd.
894.51B2
CS/V
DERSION OF FINCUNL AFFARS
. OFD Unn
Arsvered 10/2/47
AUG 2 9 1947
FN-JCCorlios-ah
lK
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
D
6
f

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.94)
OCT91947
In roply refer to
FN
My dear Mr. Watson:
Reference is made to your letter of August 26, 1947,
力
regarding your Hungarian and German bonds.
In 1ts letter of May 28, 1947, the Department srams-
riling of olaims relative to these bonds with the Offies
of Aliea Property, The information given belew relates
to the Depertment's pesition regarding sueh ebligasiens,
and dees not eoneern in any way the filing of elaims with
the Ofriee of Alien Preperty.
The position or the Department relative to the
various obligations held by yeu was set forth in the
Department's letter of April 28, l947. Sinee that sime,
the only new development has been the seanding of a eem-
plete report upon the bonds issued or guaranteed by
Japanese mavernmental entisies, to the Uaited Ssates
Politioal Adviser to the Sapreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, at Tokyo. This repert was sent by the Fereigs
Bondholders Proteotive Couneil, whieh was deseribed In
the Department's letter of April 28, l947, and sransmitted
26
hrough the Department for the information of the Peliti-
eal Adviser and the appropriate seetion or the Starf of
Supreme Gommander, and for such use as might be considered
proper in the proteotion of the Amerioan Interest involved.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of state:
Anal
Rev.
James O. Corliss
Cat.
Assistant Chief, Division of
Dist.
Financial Affairs
Mr. John C. Watson,
372 Woodland Avenue,
ocr
Lymehburg, Virginia.
FN:JCCorliss:rt
10/2/47

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
In reply refer to
March 5, 1948
FN 894.51 Bondholders
/8-3047
E
My dear Mrs. Port:
18
Reference 1s made to your letter of August 30, 1947,
addressed to the Office of Alien Property, and to the
h
Department's acknowledgment of January 16, l948, regarding
your Oriental Development Company bonds. The Department
regrets that the reply to your letter has been so long
delayed.
The Department will be glad, if you are an American
citizen, to make a record of your holdings, for such future
consideration as may be found appropriate. In order that
there may be no misunderstanding regarding the significance
of this prooedure, however, the following may be helpful to
your understanding of the Department's policy in connection
with such obligations.
The Department. considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into which the
purchaser enters after calculation of the risks involved.
In oase of default on dollar bonds issued by private enti-
ties, it is assumed that the holders will be prepared, if
8
necessary, to avail themselves of the usual methods to
exercise any rights they may possess, whenever and wherever
resort to such measures 1s possible. In case of default on
C
dollar bonds lssued by or guaranteed by governmental entities,
it is not the practice of the Department to negotiate direot-
ly for American holders, but it does endeavor to render such
assistance as it properly can to such holders or their
representatives.  In this connection attention may be called
to the Foreign Bondholders Protective Counoil, Incorporated,
90 Broad
Mrs. Emmy Lou Port,
513 Woat Church Street,
Warburton, Wisconsin.
Narth

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
90 Broad Street, New York, New York, whioh was organized
several years ago to serve as a central representative
body. Although it was established with the enoouragement
of the Department, the Council aots on its own responsibility.
Some time ago, at the request of the Council, the Department
transmitted to the United States Politioal Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokyo, a complete
statement regarding the dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by
Japanese governmental entities. This statement was sent for
the information and use of the Political Adviser and of the
appropriate section of the Staff of the Supreme Commander,
and for such action as might be considered appropriate in the
protection of the American interest involved. The Department
believes that the Council is mindful of the interests of
Amerioan holders of such obligations and that it will, when
occasion offers, take such steps as it considers to be to
the advantage of the holders.  You may wish to write to the
Council in oonnection with the bonds held by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not in a
position to state now what provisions, if any, affecting
such obligations, amy be contained in the Peace Treaty with
Japan, or what provision for claims arising from the war may
be made. As you doubtless know, there will be many olaims and
demands against Japan, and against Japanese munioipalities and
persons, of which such obligations as those to which you refer
will probably conatitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, as indicated above, the Department will be
glad to make a record of your holdings for possible future
use. It is suggested that you furnish to the Department a
statement indicating the date and manner (whether by birth or
naturalization) of your acquisition of American citizmnship,
and if citizmnehip was acquired by naturalization, the name
and location of the court granting citizenship, and the num-
ber of the relative certificate.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Jamee . Cocliss
James C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
51948
In reply refer to
N 894.81 Bondholders
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/8-3047
/8-3047
My dear Mrs. Port:
Reference 1s made to your letter of August 30, 194?,
addresaed to the Offioe of Alien Property, and to the
Department'a aoknowledgment of January 16, 1948, regarding
your Oriental Development Company bonds. The Department
regrets that the reply to your letter has been so long
delayed.
The Department will be glad, if you are an American
oitizen, to make a record of your noldings, for suoh future
consideration as may be found approprlate. In order that
there may be no misunderstanding regarding the signiricanee
of this prooedure, however, the following may be helpful to
your understanding of the Department' polioy in conneotiem
with such obligations.
The Departmont considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaotion into which the
purohaser enters after oaloulation of the risks involved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by private onti-
ties, it 1s assumed that the holders will be prepared, if
necessary, to avail themselves of the usual methods to
exeroise any rights they may possess, whenever and wherever
resort to such measures is possible. In case of default en
dollar bonds losued by or guaranteed by governmental entities.
it is not the practice or the Department to negotiate direet-
ly for American holdera, but it does endeavor to render sush
assistance as it properly oan to suoh holders or their
894.51Bmdholdes
representatives. In this conneotion attention may be called
to the Foreign Bondholders Proteotive Counell, Inoorporated,
90 Broad
Mrs. Emmy Lou Port,
B13 West Churoh Street,
Warburton, Wisoonsin.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.96)
90 Broad Street, New York, New York, which was erganised
several years ago to serve as a sentral represeatative
body. Although it was established with the encouragemems
of the Department, the Couneil acts on its own responsibilisy.
Some time ago, at the request of the Coumoil, the Department
transmitted to the United States Politieal Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokyo, a eemplets
statement regarding the dellar bonds issued or guaranteed by
Japanese governmental entities. This statement was sent fer
the information and use of the Politieal Adviser and of the
appropriate section of the Staff of the Supreme Cemmander.
and for such action as might be considered appropriate in the
protection of the American interest involved. The Departmems
believes that the Counoil 1s mindful of the interests of
Amerioan holders of such obligations and that it will, whem
occasion offers, take such steps as it coneiders to be to
the advantage of the holders. You may wish to write to the
Counoil in connection with the bonds held by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not in a
position to state now what provislons, ir any, affeoting
such obligutions, amy be onntained in the Peace Treaty with
Japan, or what provision for olaims arising from the war may
be made. As you doubtless know, there will be many olaims and
demands against Japan, and against Japanese munieipalities and
persons, of which such obligations as those to whioh you refer
will probably constitute but a small part.
Nevertheleas, as indicated above, the Department will be
glad to mako a record of your holdinga for posaible future
use. It is suggested that you furnish to the Department a
statement indicating the date and manner (whether by birth or
naturalizetion) of your acquisition of American citizmmship.
and if citizmnahip was acquired by naturalization, the name
and location of the court granting oitizenahip, and the nm-
ber of the relative certificate.
sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
James C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Diviaion of Finaneial Affairs
1.15
FN:JCGorliss:gwe
OEDS
3/1/48
8-8/CR

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGAL ADVISER
Referedt 7n fr action
JAN 2 - 1948
Warburton, Wisconsin
August 30, 1947
Office of Alien Property
DUR
Washington 25, D. C.
Gentlemen:
I am the owner of a Japanese Bond described
894.51
as follows:
Bond No. M 7865 of The Oriental Development
Company, Ltd. $1,O00 External Loan Thirty Year six percent,
gold debenture bond, due March 15, 1953 - interest payable
September 15 and March 15, principal and interest payable in
the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, U. S. A.; fiscal
BONDHOLDER8/8-3047
agent. The National City Bank of New York.
This bond is guaranteed by the Japanese Government
and I am advised that a claim should be filed in your office.
If this letter is not sufficient notice of my claim, please
send me the appropriate forms on which to make claim.
Your courtesies in this matter will be appreciated.
Very truly yours,
MAY 28 1951
FILAD
/s/ Mrs. Emmy Lou Port
C
ach Fli yarm 1b6 /45
JAN 5 1948
0
Repey3-1-y5
894.51 Bond
P
Y
uae

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
OFFICE OF ALIEN PROPERTY
JS:JAC:ab
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
034-65
DEC 2 9 1947
The Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Attention: Legal Advieer
Gentlemen:
Enclosed is letter dated August 30, 1947,
from Mrs. Emmy Lou Port, 513 N. Church Street, Warburton, Wisconsin,
and a copy of my reply thereto.
Since the letter relates to matters which
may be within the jurisdiction of the Department of
State, it is being referred to you for consideration
and direct reply.
Sincerely yours,
DaudBoglon
David L. Bazelon
Assistant Attorney General
Director, Office of Alien Property
Enclosures
SL-1

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.90)
DEC 2 9 1947
Mrs. Bmay Lou Port
as N. Chareh Street
Westurton, Wiseemsin
Deer Mrs. Port:
Referesee is mede to your letter of Auguet s0, 1947.
The office of Aliem Preperty has vasted preperty mhich may be hed
sertain ebligatioas of The Orieatal Developmest Csmpesy, Ltd., heve beem
guareateed by the Japenese Geverament property of which hes beem segived be
this Offise by Vesting Order 1095.
Lecerdingly, I m emelosing Form APC-1C, with iastruetions Snaluding
the text of sestions s0 and 34 of the Trading with the meny Let. he fes
warding of e fom is mot to be construed as an admission of the slessisieetten
or validity of mmy perticalar claim.
The time for filing debt alaime in respect of the s0e debtere listed
in the Federel Register of Angust 28, 1947, expired on September 2, 1969.
The time for filing debt alains in respect of all other debtere, my af whese
property was vested in or transferred to this Orfice before Jammary l, lost, hes
beem ertended from September 2, 194?, watil such date or detes as are fimed frem
sime to sime by at least sixty days' motice published in the Fedesal Regéetee.
The ertemsion is applicable to the grest majority of debs alaime, imsluting
elaims against proparty asquired by this Offiee formerly balengins t ememy
soverments, political subdivisions thereof, and banks.
Séase the matter to which you refor appears to relate to mestese sksck
may be within the jurisdiction of the Department of State, a eepy of yoee letess
1s being referred to that department for 1te consideration and direst reply.
I regret the delay in anaworing your letter.
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) David L. Bazelon
David L. Baselon
Assistant Attorney General
Director, Office of Alion Property
melosure
71485

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Corliss called 0.A.P. on 5/4/48 to get
correct address, but they stated they had
only the address given and that their records
showed their letter to Mrs. Port had not been
returned unclaimed.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Wine
WASHINGTON
In reply refer to
FN 894.51 Bondholders
/8-3047
Varrenton, Mo.
My dear Mrs. Port:
No: i tiing tan
Reference is made to your letter of August 30, 1947,
addressed to the Office of Alien Property, and to the
Department's acknowledgment of January 16, 1948, regarding
your Oriental Development Company bonds. The Department
regrets that the reply to your letter has been so long
delayed.
The Department will be glad, if you are an American
citizen, to make a record of your holdings, for such
future consideration as may be found appropriate. In
order that there mey be no misunderstanding regarding the
significance of this procedure, however, the following
may be helpful to your understanding of the Department's
policy in connection with such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into which the
purchaser enters after calculation of the risks involved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by private enti-
ties, it is assumed that the holders will be prepared, if
necessary, to avail themselves of the usual methods to
exercise any rights they may possess, whenever and where-
ever resort to such measures is possible. In case of
default on dollar bonds issued by or guaranteed by govern-
mental entities, it is not the practice of the Department
to negotiate directly for American holders, but it does
endeavor to render such assistance as it properly can to
such holders or their representatives. In this connection
attention may be called to the Foreign Bondholders Pro-
tective Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York,
New York, which was organized several years ago to s erve
as a central representative body. Although it was estab-
lished with the encouragement of the Department, the
Council
Mrs. Emmy Lou Port,
513 North Church Street,
WarburtonWisconsin.
Lama in 2901.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -.
Council acts on its own responsibility. Some time ago
at the request of the Council, the Department trans-
mitted to the United States Political Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokyo, a
complete statement regarding the dollar bonds issued or
guaranteed by Japanese governmental entities. This
statement was sent for the information and use of the
Political Adviser and of the appropriate section of the
Staff of the Supreme Commander, and for such action as
might be considered appropriate in the protection of the
American interest involved. The Department believes that
the Council is mindful of the interests of American
holders of such obligations and that it will, when occa-
sion offers, take such steps as it considers to be to the
advantage of the holders.  You may wish to write to the
Council in connection with the bonds held by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not
in a position to state now what provisions, if any,
affecting such obligations, may be contained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provision for claims
arising from the war may be made. As you doubtless know,
there will be many claims and demands against Japan, and
against Japanese municipalities and persons, of which
such obligations as those to which you refer will pro-
bably constitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, as indicated above, the Department will
be glad to make a record of your holdings for possible
future use. It is suggested that you furnish to the
Department a statement indicating the date and manner
(whether by birth or naturalization) of your acquisition
of American citizenship, and if citizenship was acquired
by naturalization, the name and location of the court
granting citizenship, and the number of the relative
certificate.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Jamee C. Corlise
James c. Corliss, Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
JACQUES RUCH
SO EAST 72ND STREET
September 2,1947.
NEW YORK 21. N. Y.
DC/Rilew
Statement
In reference to the enclosed letter of the Natienal
City Bank of New York,N.Y.,dated August 27,I947,adressed
to me,concerning:
 3000.- Great Conselidated lectric Power Company Ltd.
I/2 % Bonds due July I,1950,No. II10/12
I wish to state the residenees of my wife, Cecilis Ruch
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/9-247
born de la Guardia and myself:
1939-4.28.1941 Collonges s/ Salève,Haute Savoie,Franee
libre(non occupied)
4.28.I94I-9.28.I945 13 Avenue Verde11,Lausanne,Switzorland
since II.3.I945 until now our residence is New York,N.Y.
We both were residents in the U.S.A. from 1922-1953
and our two children are native American citizens. My
son Jaccues Fuch jr served in the U.S.A. Army Air Forees.
farqus u
51
Jaccues
Ruch
894.51 Bond
15
CS/H

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.79)
THE NATIONAL CITY BANK OF NEW YORK
Angast 87, 2947
NEW YORK
-3
tr. Joeques Rach
70 at 2nd trost
Ya
1 u  De L
lng & stetement comoerains your holdings of $3,  Grest Gaugolldatet Eiestric
994.
Vo are plensed to ohatium that thene eeuritiee were forerded to no
51
8
safekeeping.
We heve on reeere X1eense No. MY-771106-s, Gated Apt11 sh, 1946
whieh erpired July 23, 19k6, resding as followe:
"affost the dobit and withdreoat speeifted-La your appliestion,
relative to the aoeeunt of Uadon Bank of sriteerland, Gomove,
Ruch, noe Bo La Guardliaf.
The $3, 000 Great Consolidated Blootrze Pover Gorpany Benda vere iueluded in
6
2
Gstg Bank of Now York.
15
Vany twaiy youre,

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.97)
MAR 11 1948
Ia reply refer to
é9h.51 Bondholders
79-347
My dear Mr. Stera:
Reference is made to your letter of September 3.
1947, and to the Department's aokmowledgment of
November 4, 1947, relative te the 6-1/2% Imperial
Japanese Government dollar bonds issued in l924 and due
1954. It is regretted that a reply to your letter has
HOLDERS/9-347
been so long delayed.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, but the following may be helprul to your under-
Standing or the Department's polioy with respeet to sush
obligations.
In general, the Department considers that invest-
ment in foreign bonds is primarily a private transaetion
into which the purohaser voluntarily enters after eal-
culating the risks involved. In case of default on
dollar bonds issued by a foreign government, it is not
the practice of the Department to negotiate direotly
for Amerioan holders, but it does endeavor to render
such assistance as it appropriately oan to then or their
representatives. In this conneotion your attentien may
be called to the Foreign Bondholders Protective Counetl,
Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York, New York, whish
was established several years ago to serve as a central
representative body. The Council was organised with the
encouragement of the Department, but it acts on its ewm
responsibility. It is understood that the Couneil is
now interesting itselr in suoh obligations as those mes- O
8
tioned by you and you may wish to write to it in sonnee- (S
tion with these bonds. Some time ago, at the request ef
A
the Couneil, the Department transmitted to the United
States Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, at Tokyo, a complete statement
regarding
Mr. 8. Albert Stern
FCH
120 South Lasalle Street,
Chicago 3, Illinois.
r
3
orm

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.95)
regearding the deflar boads fasmed er searanteed by
Japenese covernmsatal entisies. This stalemont mas
seat fer the information and use of the Pelitieal
Adviser and of the appropriate sestion of the sarr ef
the Sapreme Commander, and fer such aetion as migkt be
deemed appropriate in the protestion of the Amarieam
interest involved.
It will be appreciated that the Department eammes
state at the present time what provisions, if amy, may
tioms. You are doubtless aware that there will be mamy
elaims and demandé against the Japanese Government and
against persons and munioipalities in that country, of
whieh such bonds as those referred to by you will pro-
bably constitute only a small part.
However, the Department will be glad to make a
record in its files, for such consideration as may be
appropriate, of any information which an American holder
may send to it regarding his bonds. Sush informatiom
should include the fece value, the purchase price, the
manner and date of acquisition by him, the date of the
last payment or interest thereon, and the manner (whether
by birth or naturalization) and date of his asquisitiom
of American citizenship. If it should later be found
advisable for individual merioan holders to take any
further steps in conneotion with suoh cbligations, due
announcement will be made in the public press.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chier
Division of Financial Affairs
Ci
MAR 11 1948 P.M.
2200
3/2/48

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.93)
S. ALBERT STERN
ATTORNEY AT LAW
120 BOUTH LASALLE STREE
DIVISION OF
CHICAGQ 3
DIVISION OF
PROTECTIVE SERVICES
PROTECTIVE SERVICES
SEP 10 1947
SEP 5 1947
September 3, 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SHWT TO DOR FOR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Special Projects Division
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
BONDHOLDERS/9-347
Dear Sirs:
Will you kindly furnish me with advice
as to the stats of claims arising out of ownership
of Imperial Japanese  Government bonds, Sinking Fund
External Loan of-r924. Interest was paid through
August 1, 194l. I understand the Alien Property
Custodian is entertaining claims against funds in
his custody but principal and interest payments in
excess of his funds will be handled through the
State Department. Any information relative to
liquidating this debt will be appreciated.
2
Very truly yours,
Pallent Ater
01
HO
co
R
SAS h
(S
PILED
894.5
1951
CS/V
BERSIN OF FRNANCIAL AFTNES
acd FH darm 1/4/47
OCT 3 1 1947
lxacnered 3/2/48
LAIMS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
72
FN-V.W Janee
Cat.
ist.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.98)
MAR171948
In reply refer to
894.51 Bondholders
/9-647
My dear Mr. Everett:
Reference is made to your letter of September 6,
1947, and to the Department's acknowledgment of September
19. 1947, relative to the 6% Oriental Development Company,
BONDHOLDERS/9-647
Limited, dollar bonds, due l953. It is rogretted that the
reply to your inquiry has been so long delayed.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not now possi-
ble, but the following may be helpful to your under-
standing of the Department's position with respeet to
such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into whieh the
purchaser enters after calculation of the risks involved.
In case or default on dollar bonds issued by private
entities, it is assumed that the holders will be prepared,
if necessary, to avail themselves of the usual methods
to exercise any rights they may possess, whenever and
wherever resort to such measures is possible. In ease
of default on dollar bonds issued by or guaranteed by
governmental entities, as are the bonds mentioned by you,
it is not the practice of the Department to negotiate
directly for American holders, but it does endeavor to
or their representatives. In this conneotion attention
may be called to the Foreign Bondholders Proteotive
Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York, New
York, which was organized several years ago to serve as
6
a central representative body. Although it was estab-
lished with the enoouragement of the Department, the
94.51
Council acts on its own responsibility. Some time ago,
at the request of the Counoil, the Department transmitted
to the United States Politicai Adviser to the Supreme
C
Commafder
Mr. Ralph B. Everett,
2795 Downing Street,
Jacksonville, Florida.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokyo, a complete
statement regarding the dollar bonds issued or guaras-
teed by Japanese governmental entities. This stutement
was sent for the information and use of the Politieal
Adviser and of the appropriate sestion of the Staff of
the Supreme Commander, and for such action as might be
considered appropriate in the protection of the Americam
interest involved. The Department believes that the
Counoil is mindful of the interests of Amerioan holders
of such obligations and that it will, when occasion
offers, take such steps as it considers to be to the
advantage of the holders. You may wish to write to the
Council in conneotion with the bonds mentioned by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not
in a position to state now what provisions, if any,
affecting such obligations, may be contained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provision for claims
arising from the war may be made. As you doubtless
know, there will be many claims and demanas against
Japan, ana against Japanese municipalities and persons,
of which such obligations as those to which you refer
will provably constitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department is glad to make a
record for such future consideration as may be found to
be appropriate, of the information submitted by merican
citizens with regard to their holdings of suoh obliga-
tions. Such information should include the interest
rate of the bonds, the dates of issue and maturity, the
face value, the manner and date of acquisition of the
bonds, the purchase price, the last payment of interest
thereon, and the manner (whether by birth or naturaliza-
tion) and date of acquisition by the holder or Amerioan
oitizenship. If citizenship was aoquired by naturaliza-
tion, the name and location of the court granting oiti-
zenship, and the nunver of the reletive certificate
should also be given. If it should later be found
advisable for individual holders to take further steps,
due announcement will be made in the public press.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
CR
MAR 16 1948
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chiar
Division of Financial Affairs
FN:VWJones:rt
3/11/48

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.94)
MAR1V 1940
S
ECEIVED
E
:947
2795 Downing St.,
DC
Jacksonville, Fla.,
segt. 6, 147.
The Special Projects Division,
Protectton of American Property Sectton,
みr
The Departmeat of state,
Washinston, D. c.
Gentlemen:-
LDERS/9-647
on a recent visit to Was'ington it wis sugrested to me
in your Department that I take up by letter with you the following
situation:
I have n rolding of tre ap Guaranteed Gold Debentures,
The
lue ar. Ls, less, of tre oriental Development Company, Ltd.
These
latter is a Ja anese corporation wit headquorters in Tokyo.
debentures are listed on the New York Stock Exchange but were sus-
pendea from traalng on Deu. i1, leii. Interest is in default be-
Einning with the coupons lue Mar. 15, la4s. The principal and
interest of these dotentures  not only the oblgatlon of the is-
suing corporotion but are also vuaranteed by tre Imperial Japanese
Government.
I have already filei claims with the office.of Alien
Property on assets of the issuing corporation ani also those of
the Imyerial Japanese Government which have been sequestered by
that office.
However, as it my information that it is very doubt-
68
ful that the sequestered assets will be sufficient to cover the
amount of the claims filei I am seoking other available assets of
the obligors.
I will appreciate any informations wrich you can furnish
me in line with the above.
J
very truly yours,
FILED
CS/V
Rabe B. Even
de
11h FNO/arm9/19/47
SEP111947
Anamered 3/11/48
.c.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FIN.V. K. Janae

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.88)
EdainI Paull
48
Phoenix Arign
RECLIVEL
Depertment of state
ARTMENT OF
Sunt 6 9942
LEGAL ADVISER
attn hyal adrian
Wachmston D.C.
SEP16 1947
Dean Sirs:
F
3048
Ihave two
Elutri Sover Company Std. 7%7
Ujigawn
Which
became due manch 15 1945.
R
s
I have been in correapendence with
the
offiue of
Thin fle
Js.: ReM sfo
034-65
they admcd
On Augual 19,1947
me that
Any propirly
thim
C
dequred
S
Honever they adrine me
or them to inbatigiti

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.75)
In addtenr thy state 'Drice, youm
letty appimo alae to relite 2mtter
you may wich
D epartont of State,
Your litln to th, attentei of the
legal alviar.
Cen you pleace aosent me
shoned the to alige alletni.
Sincinrdy Youms.
Edinme I Pancr
9 . Shomn.
Phonip anzina.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.96)
The National City Bank
of New York
51 BONDHOLDERS/9-166194.5/
ESTABLISHED IBIZ
New York 15. N. Y.
TREST DEPARTMENT
September 16, 1947
22 WILLIAN STREET
CABLE ADDRESS "CITIBANK"
IN REPLYING PLEASE OUOTE
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Mr. Edward W. Doherty, Asst. Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
Re: Ujigawa Denki Kabushiki Kaisha
(Ujigawa Electric Power Company, Limited)
First Mortgage 7% Sinking Fund Gold Bonds
dated March 15, 1925. due March 15. 1945.
Gentlemen:
We have for acknowledgement your letter of September 5 with
which was enclosed a Japanese Government report on the current status
of Allied National interests in the Ujigawa Denki Kabushiki Kaisha
(Ujigawa Electric Power Cowpany, Limited), for which we thank you.
We note from the copy of the memorandum dated May 12, 1947
of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to the Japanese Govern-
ment that a moratorium has been declared with respect to any statutes
of limitations, prescriptions, forfeitures, or penalty provisions
invoked by the Japanese civil or other codes or laws.
It is also noted that a claim may be filed against the Japanese
Government for monetary loss during the period from maturity of the bonds
to the date of ultimate recovery of funds by the bondholder. While we
understand that no procedures have been established for adjudicating such
claims we would greatly appreciate being informed when these are formulated.
SS
Respectfully yours,
Stewary C.
nart.
Stewart C. Pratt
NOV?
FILED
-1647
Vice President
EWD
7027
SEP171947
=010
CC
DEPARTNENT OF STATE

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.94)
MAR171948
/80-1647
My dear Mr. Riee:
BONDHOLDERS/10-1647
Reference 1s made to your letter of Oetober 16,
1947, and to the Department's maknowledgment of Cstober
31, 1947, relative to a $1000.00 Imperial Japanese
Government 6-1/2% bond due in 1954 whieh you hold.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, but the following may be helpful to your wader-
standing or the Department's position with respeet to
such obligations.
The Department considers thet investment in foreiga
bonds is primarily a private transastion into whieh the
purchaser enters after oaloulation of the risks invelved.
In case or default on dollar bonds issued by or guaran-
teed by governmental entities, it is not the praetiee er
the Department to negotiate direstly for Ameriean holders,
but it does endeayor to render. suoh assistamce as it
properly can to such holders or their representatives.
In this connection attention may be called to the Fereiga
Bondholders Proteotive Counoil, Incorporated, 90 Broad
Street, New Tork, New York, which was organized several
years ago to serve as e central representative body.
as
Although it was established with the eneouragement of
the Department, the Counoil eets on its owm responsi-
bility. Some time ago, at the requsest of the Goumeil
the Department transmitted to the United States Politleal
Adviser to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
at Tokyo, a oomplete statement regarding the dollar bonds
issued or guaranteed by Japanese governmental entities.
This statement was sent for the information and use of
the Polisieal Adviser and of the appropriate sestiem of
the Staff of the Supreme Gommander, and for such astiem
as might be considered appropriate in the protestion of
the meriean
Mr. Frank E. Rice, Executive Secretary,
Evaporated Milk Association.
307 North Michigan Avenue,
a
Da
Chieago 1, Illinois.
1
9
力
e

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
the Mmeriean interest iavelved. The Department belleves
that the Goumeil is mindrul of the iaterests of Amesiemm
heldérs or susk obligations and that it will, whem sese-
sion offers, take such steps as it sonsiders te be te
the advantage of the holders. You may wish to write to
the Couneil in conneetion with the bond held by yeu.
It will be appreciated that the Department is met
affesting sueh obligations, may be eontained in the
Peace Treaty with Jepan, or what provision for elaims
arising from the war may be made. As you doubtless
know, there will be many olaims and demands agaimst
Japan, and against Japanese munisipalities and persons,
of whioh such obligations as that to which yon refer
will probably constitute but a amall part.
Nevertheless, the Department will be glad te make
a record for such future eonsideration as may be feund
to be appropriate, of any information you may submit
regarding your holding. Suoh information should inelude,
in addition to that sontained in your letter of Getober
16, 1947, the manner and date of asquisition of the beme.
the purehase price, the last payment of interest thereem.
and the manner (whether by-birth or naturalisatiom) and
date of your aequisition or American citizemship. If
sitisenship was acquired by naturalisation, the name and
location of the court granting citizenship, and the mum-
ber of the relative certificate mhould also be given.
If it should later be found advisable for individual
holders to take further steps, due announcement will be
made in the public press.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Jamee C. Corliss, Assistant Chier
Difision of Financial Affairs
2240
FN:V.Johes:rt 3/8/48
OFD
Ch
FL)
MAR 16 1948

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.94)
Co Institute and Conduct Research and Educational Work
PHONE
EVAPORATED MILK ASSOCIATION
FRANK E.RICE,PH.D.
Executive Secretery
DC
307 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE
171948
MAR
CHICAGO1,ILLINOIS
16 October 1947
CCo
Reforred 1 9N, m. Carsies
%
OCT 221947
Department of State
me
8099
Washington, D.C.
PATE
Attention: Legal Adviser
BONDHOLDERS/10-1647
Gentlemen
In some correspondence with the Office of Alien Property,
about the matter mentioned below, it was suggested by that
office that we communicate this information to you.
The writer of this letter owns and holds the following:
$1,000
Imperial Japanese Government
External Loan of 1924
30-Year Sinking Fund
Due February 1, 1954
6%
Bond No. M 99972
Would appreciate being advised as to whether anything is
being done in your office or in any other department in
Washington in the direction of clearing the matter of
Japanese government bonds owned by U.S. citizens.
Yours truly,
FER/ebf
ail Flt dam 10/31/47
OCT 2 41947
Ansmered 3/8/48
DERREMENT OF STATE
4
10-1647
FILED

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
111948
In reply refer to
 894.51 Bondholders
/10-2147
My dear Mr. Hansen:
Reference is made to your letter asknowledged by
BONDHOLDERS/10-2147
the Department on October 27, 1947, coneerning a $500.00
Imperial Japanese Government bond and a $lo00.00 tokye
Electrie Light Company, Limited, bond. It is regrested
that the reply to your letter has been so long delayed.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, but the following may be helprul to your under-
standing or the Department's position with respeet to
such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into which the
purehaser enters arter caleulation of the risks involved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by private
entities, it is assumed that the holders will be prepared,
if necessary, to avail themselves of the usual methods
to exereise any rights they may possess, whenever and
wherever resort to such measures is possible. In ease
of default on dollar bonds issued by or guaranteed by
governmental entities, as are the bonds mentioned by
you, it is not the practice or the Department to negotiate
directly for American holders, but it does endeavor te
render such assistance as it properly can to such kolders
or their representatives.: In this connection, attentiom
may be called to the Foreign Bondholders Proteotive Goun-
oil, Inoorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York, New York,
C
whioh was organized several years ago to serve as a
S
central representative body. Although it was established
1
8
with the encouragement of the Department, the Couneil
A
b
aots on its own responsibility. Some time ago, at the
request of the Counoil, the Department transmitted to
the United States Politioal Adviser to the Supreme
Commander
Mr. Alfred Hansen,
257 Morth Hilorest Boulevard,
CH
Inglewood, California.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2
Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokye, a eemplete
statement regarding the dollar bonds issued or guaranteed
by Japanese goveramental entities. This statement was
sent for the information and use of the Pelitieal
Adviser and of the appropriate ssetion of the asarf ef
the Supreme Commander, and for such astion as might be
considered appropriate in the proteetion of the Ameriean
interest involved. The Dspartment belteves that the
Council is mindful of the interests of merieam helders
of such obligations and that it will, when oceasiem
offers, take such steps as it considers to be to the
edventage of the holdere. You may wish to write te the
Couneil in connection with the bonds mentioned by you.
It will be appreciated that the Departmemt is not
in a position to state now what provisions, if any,
affecting such obligations, may be contained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provision for elaims
arising fron the war may be made. As you doubtloss
know, there will be many claims and demands against
Japan, end against Japanese municipalities and persons,
of which such obligations as those to whioh you refer
will probably constitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department is glad to make a
record, for such future consideration as may be found to
be appropriate, of the information submitted by Ameriean
citizens with regard to their holdings of suoh obliga-
tions. Such information should inolude the interest
rate of the bonds, the dates of issue and maturity, the
face value, the manner and date of acquisition of the
bonds, the purchase price, the last payment of interest
thereon, and the manner (whether by birth or naturalisa-
tion) and date of acquisition by the holder of merieam
citizenship. If citizenship was acquired by naturaliza-
tion, the name and location of the court granting eiti-
zenship, and the number of the relative certifioate
should also be given. If it should later be found
advisable for individual holders to take further steps,
due announoement will be made in the public press.
Meanwhile, your attention is called to the fast
that the Ofrice of Alien Property is entertaining dobt
olaims of American citizens against certain Japamese
assets vested by that Office. American holders of bonds
of Japanese

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
Waahington, D. C., Waiek Grriee will inferm alaimants
whether any assets of partieular debters have
vested. Details relative te the riling of susk et
from any Umited States attormey.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
James C. Cordiss, Assistant Chier
Divisign or Financial Arfairs
OFDX
FN:ViJones:rt
3/3/48

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.80)
A.HANSEN
257-North filoust Blid.
894.51
Cet FN foracins
8128
Departement of State
tashingln J.
deawskr
Fill gom kendll, advisr
HOLDERS/10-2147
apuibe Tahaner Forern
S
Told ond r500.
2
Angust 1941:-
Also:
894.51
1 Tokjo Eleo: Lyht C-Rnti
100juit Mortgage Bold
BondDue 1953.
No coupms pracd dence
ain
90e: 1941:
Tespsefhell Jo
Offictansen
N
(ne
3
in
12 1951
LED
VVL
ackFN-darm 10/27/47
OCT 24 1947
Anamered 3/3/48
DEPPRTMENT OF STATE
FN- V.70. Jane

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.94)
guf
Dillon, Read & Co.
a  FrSarm 112/47
Nassau & Cedar Streets
Anamred 5/28/48
October 21, 1947
The Honorable George C. Marshall
≤Secretary of State of the
S
United States
5
894.51
OEATUE
Dear Sir:
Attention of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Division: Civil Property Custodian,
5
Tokyo, Japan
1C
2r0
BONDHOLDERS/10-2147
We have acted as fiscal agent in the United States for the following
dollar bonds issued by Japanese corporations since the issuance of such
bonds:
Daido Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha (The Great Consolidated
Electric Power Company, Limited) First Mortgage 7% Sink-
ing Fund Gold Bonds Series A, due August 1, 1944, inter-
est coupons due February 1, 1942 and subsequently in
default;
Daido Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha (The Great Consolidated
Electric Power Company, Limited) First and General Mort-
gage 6-1/2% Sinking Fund Gold Bonds, due July 1, 1950,
interest coupons due January 1, 1942 and subsequently in
default;
Shinyetsu Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha (Shinyetsu Electric
Power Company, Limited) First Mortgage 6-1/2% Sinking
Fund Bonds due December 1, 1952, interest coupons due
June 1, 1942 and subsequently in default.
Based on information furnished to us as fiscal agent, the presently
outstanding principal amounts of such bonds are as follows: Daido 7s -
$1,346,000; Daido 6-1/2s - $754,500; and Shinyetsu 6-1/2s - $1,257,000.
The bonds when originally issued were direct obligations of the re-
spective issuing corporations and were secured by mortgages on property
11951
FILED
CS/V

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
Dillon, Read & Co.
Nassau &. Cedar Streets
NewYork 5
The Honorable George C. Marshall
(2)
October 21, 1947.
located in Japan. In 1939, the Japanese Government guaranteed the
bonds, both as to principal and interest. In l943, in connection with
an attempt by the Japanese Government to convert foreign currenoy bonds
into Japanese currency bonds, a law was passed providing that the mort-
gages securing the bonds should become null and void and we understand
that the mortgages were cancelled of record and the Japanese Government
purported to assume the obligation for the payment of the bonds. Amer
ican bondholders, however, did not consent to this act nor to any con-
version of their dollar bonds into Japanese currency bonds and the dollar
bonds remained outstanding in their original form.
We have been advised that if requested by the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, the Japanese Government will restore the mortgages
which, by Japanese law, were declared to be null and void in 1945, so that
the American bondholders will have the original security for their ob-
ligations.
We should greatly appreciate it, therefore, if the United States
Government would instruct the Japanese Government to restore the mort-
gages as security for the dollar bonds.
Respectfully yours,
Jillen. Ree re.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.97)
MAR 241948
La reply refer to
 894.51 Bondholders
/10-2347
My dear Mr. Webster:
51 BONDHOLDERS/10-2347
Reference is made to your letter of Ootober 23,
1947 and to the Department's acknowledgment of Oetober
31, 1947 relative to certain 5% City of Tokyo sterlimg
bonds, issued in l9l2 which you hold. It is regretted
that the reply to your inquiry has been so long delayed.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into which the
purehaser voluntarily enters after calculation of the
risks involved. In case of default upon bonds payable
in currencies other than dollars the Department is rarely
able to do more than to endeavor to have bonds of a given
issue held by American investors given treatment no less
favorable than that given by the debtor to bonds held by
nationals of the country in which they were issued. In
the instant case this would mean that you could not
fairly expect to receive more favorable treatment for
your bonds than that given to bonds of the l912 issue
in the hands of British subjeets, by whom the great bulk
of the issue would probably be held.
It wili be appreciated that the Department is not
in a position to state now what provisions, if any,
Treaty with Japan, or what provision for claims arising
from the war may be made.
As you may know, there was esteblished in London
8
many years ago the Corporation of Foreign Bondholders
C
to represent ths interests of holders of sterling bonds
S
originally floated in the London market. Tha Corporatiom
operates under an Aot or Parliament and enjoys a semi-
ofricial position in matters relative to foreign Govern-
@
ment obligations payable in sterling. The Corporation
has
Mr. Morman K. Webster,
-23
Webster, Horne & Klsdon,
50"Broadway.
New York 4, New York.
力

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
has its headquarters at 6/7 King William Street, Lenden,
East Center 4, Eagland. You may wish to write to the
Corperation regarding your bonds.
Nevertheless, if you are an Ameriean citizem, the
Department wiäl make a record of your holdings fer swsk
future eonsideration as may be found to be apprepriate.
It is requested that you inform the Department as te
the manner and date of your mequisition of these bemds,
the purehase price, and the manner (whether by birth
or maturalization) and date of your asquisition of
American citizenship. If citisenship was aequired by
naturalization, the name and looation of the sourt s
granting citizenship, and the number of the relative
certiricate should also be given.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
James C. Gorliss, ssistant Chier
Diviston of Financial Affairs
FN:VWJOnes:rt
3/17/48
OFD
Mr. Livesey
MAR 24 1

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.95)
DOK: Room 487
URGENT
Please record and return immediately to—
(Name)
"LEGAL ADVISER
OCT 2 4 1947
DEPARTMENT-OF STATE
Signed

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGAL ADVISER
WEBSTER, HORNE & ELSDON
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
OCT 2 8 1947
NEW YORK
HARTFORD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
8688
NORMAN E.WEBSTER
HENRY A. HORNE
PAUL H. ELBDON
50 BROADWAY
LESTER A. KRAHE
NEW YORK 4,N.Y.
MAURICE L. BLANCHARD
WALLACE W. WILLARD
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/10-2347
October 23, 1947
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
For Attention of the Legal Adviser
Gentlemen:
Herewith you will please find a copy of
my letter of today to the Assistant Attorney General,
Office of Alien Property who suggested that I inform you
that I had filed with that office Forms APC-1C, Notice of
Claim for Payment of Debt.
JUN 12 1951
FILED
NEW:S
894.51 BONOHOL
Enc.
DCR - CLAIMS UNIT
Ana
10-2347
3
Rev.C
ack FN faron 10/21/42
An
Cat.
OCT291947
3-11-48
Dist.
SPARTMEND OF STAE

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
WEBSTER, HORNE & ELSDON
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
NEW YORK
HARTFORD
NORMAN E. WEBSTER
HENRY A. HORNE
PAUL H. ELSDON
LESTER A. KRAHE
50 BROADWAY
RESIDENT PARTNERS
NEW YORK 4, N. Y.
MAURICE L. BLANCHARD
WALLACE W. WILLARD
October 23, 1947
Mr. Daniel L. Bazelon
Assistant Attorney General
Office of Alien Property
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
Referring to your letter of October 21
(JS:JAC:aew/034-65) stating that the Office of Alien
Property has vested property of the City of Tokyo
(Order No. l095), I am as requested, sending you herewith
Original and Duplicate copies of Form APC-lC being Notice
of Claim for Payment of Debt for a total of I1,325.0.0
for Principal and Matured Coupons of Llooo Bonds of the
City of Tokyo 5% Loan of 1912 with 1nterest thereon at 5%
from dates cf Matured Coupons - Sept. 1, 1941 and Mas1
to September 1, 1947 of L50.5.0.
In accordance with your suggestion I am
also writing to the Department of State - copy herewith -
and sending to it for the attention of the Legal Adviser
a copy of this letter.
Yours very truly,
Ellbron
NEW :S
Enc.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.79)
SN
Shricago. Haoin
Ectohen 24,1 947.
Degt of Stale
heaching tou D.C.
OCT 2 7,194,
ONDI
DEPARTMENT Of SI-IC
There you reu meuch for youmg
DERS/10-2447
many reind ingamations in your
letter of Gccoher 22, 1947.
hoals you flcose make a
mcoid op my holdingo, as I anm an
Uneiean citgin hy hirth
(Mro) Mmingo dhujoshi - nee
351
horu Jounarys, 1911 in Loonie?
Plocew Comnly, Colifonia. They
hwach is sscorded ie Book c of
f

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.77)
Neoid of srcle- sage 271a1
Auburn Coijornia cocenty seat of
Placw.
Le goin thankening youu sery
kenidly yor your courteay, I'amr
Very dencernly yours,
(mss.) hiyo Miy. shi.
6010 s. tayew ave.
Cheeago. 37, 2el.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.94)
MAR161948
094.51 Bondholders/
10-2447
My dear Mrs. Miyoshi:
BONDHOLDERS/10-2447
Reference is made to your letter of Gsteber 24.
1947, eeknowledged by the Department on Osteber 23,
1947, in whioh you submitted eertain iarormatien in
commeetion with your Tokyo Eleetrie Light Compamy dellar
bonds.
This information will be plased in the Departmest?s
reeords with the other material suhmitted by you im yeur
letters of May 13, 1947 and August 20, 1947, 1m ecmmessiem
with your holdings, for sueh wse as may be found te be
appropriate, as indicated in the Departmeat's letter te
you of Oetober 22, 1947.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
James G. Corliss, Assistant Chier
Diyision of Financial ffairs
CS/A
Mrs. Miyo Miyoshi,
6010.Smuth Harper Avenue,
Chicago 37, Illinois.
894.57
CK
15 1948
YWA
IN:VWJon6s:rt 3/3/48
ndhoeders
Rev.
LD

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.84)
Ct nr t+7
Leepathment of State
DC
Legal advison
WashnigtEGA ADVISER
894.51
Refred CT 2 9 1947
Geutteman:
8888
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
I am a holde of bouds
f Germany o Jafan, and omed
BONDHOLDERS/10-2447
like to prtnr what if anything
is benig dome to tabe care df
the witacst and redeention
by the resfective gorrments.
Yous Pruly
NC
Augusta Greidman
25 64 C reston line
Brout 58
a9
2m
11
Recerind ynu Elter dated Uct 15
x
FILED
Fib#Js-RaM.djw 034-65
5
f
S
5
10
DCR - CLAIMS UNIT
Anal. A
Rov.
OCT 311947
AA
masd 5/17/48
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dist.
N.V.W.Jane

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.96)
In peply refer to
MAY101948
 800.61/11-747
My dear Mr. Mann:
Reference is made to your letter of November 7, 1947,
and the enolosures thereto, regarding the Nippon Elestrão
Power Company, Limited, First Mortgage 6 1/2 per cent
Gold Bonds due 1n 1955.
Fu
The Department has noted the information in your let-
ter and its enolosures and will give careful considerasiem
894.
ate to cause the bondholders to be restored to the enjey-
ment or their righta under the Indenture and in partioular
that this problem be considered in conneotion with the
negotlation of a treaty of peace with Japan and that 
propriate provision be included therein for the protestiem
of the rights of the holders of the bonds of the issue m
5
question.
A copy of your letter has been sent to the appropraate
authorities in Japan for their informetion.
Sincerely yours,
For the Aoting Secretary of State:
holders
Jamea C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Davision of Finanolal Affairs
Mr. F. O. Mann,
Assistant Vice President,
Harris Trust and Savings Bank,
CM
115 West Monree Street,
MAY 10 194
Chicago 90, Illinois.
the
mal.
√FN:JCCorliss:Ge
s/S-CR
4/21/48
OE

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.94)
MAY 101948
VICLASSIFIED
no.6
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/11-747
To the
Chief, United States Reparations and
Restitution Delegation,
Care of US POLAD, Tokyo.
The Aoting Seoretary of State enoloses a copy of
a letter dated November 7, 1947, from the Harris Trust
and Savings Bank, Chicago, Illinois, regarding the
Nippon Eleotrio Power Company, Limited, First Mortgage
6 1/2 per cent Gold Bonds due in 1953. Cop1es of the
enclosures to the Harris Trust and Savings Bank's letter
are not attached, sinoe they are either summarized in
the Bank's letter or the content, as in the case of the
Law Relating to the Treatment of Foreign Bonds, promul-
gated Maroh 15, 1943, 1s well known to the Political
Adviser and the Reparations and Restitution Delegation.
This letter is transmitted for the information of
and possible use by the Reparations and Restitution
Delegation in connection with appropriate protection of
the American interest involved.
CS/V
Enclosure:
Copy of letter dated
November 7, 1947, from
Harris Trust and Savings
Bank, Chicago, Illinois.
a. triic copy ef
the suped
nal.
DCROFD Unit
i9
080
/FN:JCOF188:gwe
4/21/48
OE
CR
MAY 
Correction Desk
aPPAR

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.97)
HARRIS TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK
115 WEST MONROE STREET
TRUST DEPARTMENT
8200
CHICAGO 9O. ILLINOIS
Navember 7, 1947
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State
Replymatt.a
Washington, D. C.
NV171947
FN: eareizo:sury
Dear Sir:
G1A
DEPARIMENT OF STANE
Re:
Nippon Electric Power Compeny, Ltd.,
First Mortgage 6 1/2% Gold Bonds, due 1953
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/11-747
We refer to previous correspondence which we have
had with you, in particular your letter dated February 26,
1947, with respect to our activities as Paying Agent, Sink-
ing Fund Agent and Authenticating Agent of the Nippon Electric
Power Company, Ltd. First Mortgage 6 1/2% Gold Bonds due 1953.
In conformity with the suggestion contained in your
letter under reference, we communicated with Japan and we
have now received a report concerning the status of this issue
from the Successor Trustee under the Indenture securing the
Bonds and from the Successor Obligor. This report discloses
that since the outbreak of war with Japan, action has been
taken in violstion of the terms of the Indenture which is
seriously prejudicial to the interests of bondholders. The
purpose of this letter is to advise you of these occurrences
and of other aspects of the present status of this issue and
to request that you take such action as may be appropriate
to protect the interests of the bondholders. Although under
a
the Indenture securing the bonds, this bank is not charged
with the duties of a Trustee for the bondholders, such duties
having been imposed solely upon the original Trustee there-
under, The Mitsui Bank, Limited, or its lawful successor, we
are addressing ourselves to you since, the Trustee being a
Japanese institution, there is no corporate trustee in the
United States to represent the interests of the bondlolders.
It is our primary purpose at this time that nothing shoui
CS/A
be done which might be deemed to constitute acquiescence on
the part or in behalf of any holders of bonds of this is he
in the violations of the Indenture which have occurre Since
the corporate trustee of this issue is a Japanese institution,
it is possible that through force of circumstance or otherwise,
it has been unable to discharge its obligations to the bond-
holders under the Indenture.
The bonds were issued in 1928 under an Indenture
between Nippon Electric Power Compeny, Ltd. and The Mitsui
Bank Limited as Trustee and were secured by a first mortgage
lien on important public utility properties located in Japan.
Correction Desk
a
RerXAA

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
HARRES TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK, CHICAGO
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State
-2-
November 7, 1947
The principal amount of bonds originally issued was $9,o00,000
of which $4,952,000 was outstanding as of October 15, 1941. A
substantial part of the property subject to the lien of the In-
denture was transferred by Nippon Electric Power Company, Ltd.,
to Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission Company,
Ltd. in 1939 and 194l. These transfers were effected pursuant
to an electric power control law promulgated in Japan as of
April 6, 1938 for the purpose of facilitating control of the
power industry by the national government. In exchange for its
properties, Nippon Electric Power Company, Ltd. received shares
of stock of Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company,
Ltd. In connection with the transfers, the Imperial Japanese
Government and Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission
Company, Ltd., unconditionally guaranteed the bonds as to
principal and interest. The properties transferred continued
to be security for the outstanding bonds and subject to the
lien of the Indenture. (We understand from the report referred
to below that the remaining electric properties of Nippon Electric
Power Company, Ltd., were transferred, as of April 1, 1942, to
Chubu Electric Supply Compeny, Ltd., The Kansai Electric Supply
Company, Ltd. and The Hokuriku Electric Supply Company, Ltd.)
Pursuant to an Order of the Minister of Communications dated
August 2, 194l, a Supplemental Indenture was executed as of
October 1, 194i between Nippon Electric Power Company, Ltd.,
Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission Company, Ltd.,
and The Mitsui Bank, Ltd. Under this Supplemental Indenture,
Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission Company, Ltd.
succeeded to the interests and obligations of Nippon Eleotric
Power Company, Ltd., under the original Indenture dated
January 2, l928, including the obligatfon with respect to the
payment of principal and interest on the bonds.
The service of the bonds was effected regularly until
1942. Default with respect to interest payment commenced
January 1, 1942 and with respect to the sinking fund on October
15, 1942. The bank had no communication with Japan until the
receipt of letters dated on August 14, 1947 and September 3,
1947 from The Teikoku Bank, Ltd., as Successor Trustee, with
which were enclosed the letters from Japan Electric Power
Generation and Transmission Company, Ltd. and other papers,
certain of which are enclosed herewith for your records as
listed at the end of this letter. These letters report upon
developments during the war period which may be summarized as
follows:
(a) As of April 1, 1943, The Teikoku Bank, Ltd.
succeeded The Mitsui Bank, Ltd. as Trustee
under the Indenture dated January 2, 1928.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
HAIKRIS TRUST AND BAVINSS BANE.CHIGAGO
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State
-3-
November 7, 1947
(b) The bonds were "converted" into Yen Bonds
under Law No. 60 of March 15, 1943 relating
to the Treatment of Foreign Bonds, which
provided for the conversion into bonds pay-
able in Japanese currency of outstanding
dollar and sterling bonds issued by the
Imperial Japanese Government or any sub-
division thereof and private corporations.
The Nippon Electric 6 1/2% Gold Bonds were
treated as follows:
$1,968,000 principal amount which had
been reacquired by the Company were
cancelled on June 26, 1943;
1,844,000 principal amount of Bonds
which were held in Japan were exchanged
on September 15, 1943 for new Yen Bonds
of Japan Electric Power Generation and
Transmission Company, Ltd., which were
guaranteed by the Japanese Government,
bore interest at the rate of 4.2% per
annum and had a 12-year maturity;
$1,140,000 principal amount of Bonds
which were held outside of Japan were
"assumed" by the Japanese Government
in September, 1943, under terms similar
to the terms of the new Yen Bonds issued
in exchange for the Bonds held in Japan.
(Apparently, although we have not been
so advised by the Trustee, an additional
$8,O00 principel amount of Bonds have been
paid by the Government since 1943 so that
the amount now outstanding and held out-
side of Japan would be changed to $1,132,000.)
After this "conversion" and "assumption", the
mortgage securing the Bonds under the Indenture
dated January 2, 1928 was cancelled in the
appropriate commercial registry in Japan.
(c) During the war, interest on all or part of the
bonds was paid into special blocked accounts in
Japan.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
HAKRIS DRUST AND SAVINGS BANK. CHICAGO
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State
-4-
November 7, 1947
It will be seen from the foregoing that there
have occurred the following principal defaults under the In-
denture: (1) Feilure to comply with interest and sinking
fund obligations for a period in excess of five year; (2)
the unilateral act of the Japanese Government in substituting
itself as Obligor on the Bonds and in thereafter making pay-
ments with respect to service in Japanese currency; and (3)
the purported "cancellation" of the mortgage subsequent to
the so-called "conversion" operation. You are hereby ad-
vised that we do not recognize as valid such actions on the
part of the Japanese Government and we accordingly request
that tne Department of State do everything which may be
appropriate to cause the bondholders to be restored to the
enjoyment of their rights under the Indenture. In particular,
we request that this problem be considered in connection with
the negotiation of a treaty of peace with Japan and that
appropriate provision be included therein for the protection
of the rights of the holders of Bonds of the issue in question.
We are sending a copy of this letter to the Foreign
Bondholders Protective Council, Inc.
Very truly yours,
Jomann
Assistant Vice President
F. O. Mann
MJT
Enclosures
laC
Copy of letter dated August 14, 1947, from The Teikoku
Bank, Ltd. to Harris Trust and Savings Bank, together
with the following enclosures:
Extract of Order of Finance Minister with respect to
appointment of The Teikoku Bank, Ltd.
Law relating to the treatment of foreign bonds promul-
gated March 15, 1943 (English translation).
Letter dated September 27, 1946, from Japan Electric
Power Generation and Transmission Power Company, Ltd.
to Harris Trust and Savings Bank.
Letter dated September 3, 1947 from The Teikoku Bank,
Ltd. to Harris Trust and Savings Bank and enclosure
thereto, namely, letter dated August 27, 1947 from
Japan Eiectric Power Generation and Transmission Power
Company, Ltd. to Harris Trust and Savings Bank,
exclusive of enclosures.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.88)
MINT OF STATE, U. S. A.
PENALTY FOR PRIVATE USE TO
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
PAYMENT OF POSTA
LGPO)
OFFICIAL BUBINESS
218/1

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.95)
THE JAPAN ELECTRIC GENERATION & TRANEMISSION C L.
Tokyo, Sept 27:. 1946.
Mesmrs. Barrie Trust and Savings Bank.
Chieago, Illinois
Dear Sirs:
Re: The Bippon Mledtrie Power Co., Ltd. First mortgage
 Gold Bonde, Due 195s.
Bince the outbreak of the Great War II, Deo. 8, l941,
we were unable to communicate with you and believe you are pre-
samably interested in the status of the Mippon Electrio Power
Company's U. 8. Dollar Bonds (hereinafter referred to as the
Bonde) obligations of whioh were essumed by us under the pro-
vision of the Law Relating to the Treatment of Bonde in Connection
with the leotrie Power Control and under the provision of the
Indentures. We wimh, for your information, to report you some
impertant mattere and changes in regard to the Bonds during the
Wer.
(1) Payment of Principal & Interest Funds.
(a) Sinking Funds.
Due to lack of faoilities for remittance to you under
the. state of the War we were unable to pay the sinking funde for
the Bonds.
(b) Interest Funds.
-1 -

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.93)
TH JAPAN ELBCTRIC GENERATION & TRANEMISSION Co LA.
The isterest funds for the Bonds were paid by us to
é estee, at each due date and the funde were paid out as
fellewing mansers.
(1) Coupens looated in Japan were paid to the coupon-
helders, assording to the Government order deted Deo. 3l, l94l
iseued usder the Regulations Relating to the Foreign Exohange
Gestrel Lew.
(11) For soupons other than those located in Japan
the eeupem momeies were paid into the Special Assets Custody
Aédeunte (later the name altered to Designated Foreign Nation-
als Bleek Aecounts), mocording to the government order dated
Jam. 28, l94s, imsued under the Orminance purmuant to the
Hostile Matienals Assete Control Law.
The pagments to the Blosk Accounts were made at the
dates one month later of each interest paymant date.
The emounte & detes for the above mentioned coupon
moneies are showo in the attached list.
.(2) Camcellation of Coupons.
The coupons of the Bonds due Jan. 1, 1942, located in
Japan ame paid before the stipulated date of renittance as
wsual prestiee of whieh already agreed upon by you, amounting
to $ 88,928.50 were cancelled by the Trustee on June 30, 1945
semplying with the sovernment order dated June 10, 1943.
(s) Mertseged Properties.
Mortgaged properties securing the Bonds remained almost
-8 -
2

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.94)
THE JAPAN ELBCTRIC GENERATION & TRANÉMIBSION Co. LM.
unchanged and provisions of the mortgage had been earried out
as routine in accordance wi th the stipulations in the Inden-
tures, until the Bonde were partly converted into Domestic Bonds
and remainder assumed by the Government as stated below.
(4) Finencial Stetements of the Japan Electrio Generation
 Tranemission Co.. Ltd.
Balance Sheet and Income and Loss Statements of our Com-
pany for semi-annual terms from ended Mar. 31, l94s upto Sept. 80
194s, when the Bonds obligations were assumed bw the Japanese
Government, are enclosed herewith for your information.
We absorbed Tohoku Shinko Denryoku K.K. (North Eastern
Japan Electric Development Co., Ltd.) with capital stook amount-
1ng to  s0,000,000 by marger on Dec. 1. 1941, and took over pro-
perties ineluding ll water power plants with totel capacity
185,100 IW, 23 tranmiss1on lines of totel length 778,4 Xm and
4 substations with total capacity of 56,5so I.T.A., as well as
dobto.
On Oot. 1, l94l we increased our capitel stock g Yen
758,857,500 subsoribed with properties by 27 enterprises in es-
eordanee with the government order pursuant to the Lew Governing
Japen Mleotrio Generation & Tranmission Go., Lt., taking over
156 water power plants with total eapacity of 2,297,588 I., ome
steem power plant with sapac1ty of 64,500 KW., 78 transmission
limes with total length of 699.2 Im, 8 substations mith total
eapeeity 4l,s00 K.V.A. and, in accordance mith thé Governmest
erder pursuant to the provision of the Law Relating to the Treat-
meats ef Bonds in comsection With Mleotrio Power Control, we
- 8-

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.95)
THE JAPAN ELECTRI GENERATION & TRANSMISBION C. LId.
assumed obligations of U. 3. Dollar Bonds outetanding $ 9,sos.000
and domest1o bonds 3 237,285,000, and also loans payable
¥78,268,850.
On April 1, l942 we again increased our capital stoek
b ¥ 570,077,900 subsoribed with properties by 26 enterprisers
in accordance with the government order pursuant to the Law
Governing Japan Electric Generating & Transmission Col, Ltd.,
taking over 132 water power plants with total oapacity of
868,385 KW., 9 steam power plants with total capacity of
142,300 KW., transmission lines with total length of 3,793 Km
and substations with total capacity of 208,580 I.V.A. and as-
sumed obligations of U.S. Dollar bonds outstanding  588,500,
domestio bonds ¥ 169,850,000 and 1oans payable ¥ 32,033,900.
We decreased our capital stock on Feb. 6, l942 by
 88,103,600, on Ju1y 31, 1948  260,000,000 and Jan. 26, 1945
by 3 3,l47,l50 by writing off the reacquired eap1tal stook
whioh received for consideration against assumption of bond
obligations and loans payable etc.
(5) The "Law Relating to the Treatment of the Foreign Bonde."
The Law was promulgated on March 15, 194s and you will
find from the translation of mame, which is enolosed herewith,
that the Japenese bonds issued abroad by the government, muni-
cipalties and private companies were (1) partly converted into
domestio bonds with consent of the holders of the foreign bonds
located 1n Japan, (2) partly, 1.e. other than those converted
1nto domestio bonds, assumed by the Japarese Government of the otige-
--

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.93)
THE JAPAN ELECTRIC GENERATION & TEANEMISBION Co La.
sions of payment of the prinaipal of and interest on the foreign
beads ane (s) upon foregoing assumption made mortgages on the
properties seoruing same end effeet of the contrest ef the fore-
ign bonds had beseme mull and void.
As the result of promulgation of the Law and earrying
out the orders umder the provisions of same.
(a) The reaequired Bonds $ 1,968,000 were eancelled on Juse
8s, 194s w the Governmnt order dated June 10,1945,  perforatiom
 the trustee in presence of our representative.
(b) Comvertion into Domestio Bonds.
ecording to the Law, Regulatione & the Goverment
order dated July 20, 194s. with consent of the holders,,the
Bende were converted into the Gompany's domestic bonds on
Sept. 15, 1945 as follows:
Comsideration
Domestio Boude
Cash
 The Bonds  1,844,000
6,154,100
1,892.80
The terme and conditions of the Gonversion Bonds de-
livered are:
Government guaranteed, maturity 18 years, 1nterest 4.%
P.e. payable Mar. 15 & Sept. 15, sinking fund 3 50,000 semi-
ammually commenoing & pears later against the aggregate prinsipal
amount of 3 ss,lss,soo 1ssued for the convertion and for com
sideration of essumption.
The Bonds & Geupons effected conversion were eancelled
 perferatiom w the Trustee em Bept. 80, l94s, aecording to the
-5-

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.94)
THE JAPAN ELBCTRIC GENERATION & TRANEMISSION Co Ld
Govermment erder and pave publie motiee on Nov. 19, l94s in Japas
that those had beeeme mull and void.
(e) Asmumptien by the Japanese Government.
The ebligation of peyment of prineipal of and interst
on the Bonds has been assumed by the Japanese Government on Sept.
15, 1945 as fellows:
Paid to Govern-
Congideration
ment
Domestie Bonds
The Bonds $ 1,140,000
3,494,500
¥75.04
The terms and conditions of the domestie bends deliverd
to the Government for consideration are same to the convertion
bonds montioned in (b).
For your reference we may add that after the assumption
has been made the government paid to the holders in Japan of the
Bonds $ 8,000.
All original Indentures, contrects, documents and re-
cords releting to the Bonds have been handed over ig us on May
15, l944 to the.Bank of Japan as an agont of the Japanese Govern-
meat by the government order.
(d) Registration.
Upon consummation of the convertion and assumption, of
the Bonds, the legal commeroial registration of our Company was
filed on Ost. 4, l94s that the bonds adigatious had been dis-
eharged and the legal registration for oancellation of the mort-
-6-

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.91)
TEE JAPAN ELBCTRIC GENERATION & TRANEMISSION C L
s en the Festery Eatetes seeuring the Bonds was effected on
See, 19, lees eeecrding te the provision ef the Law relating to
the Treatmosts of the Fereign Besde.
(0) Seupens dwe befere Sept. 15, 194s which were paid 1n
Segen bave beseme mali and void and publie notification wes made
te tmis affeet en July 1s, l9ss according to the provision ef said
Lam.
Be believe above deseriptions, though in brief, could
give yeu e geseral view in respect to the Bonds and all write
you more fully later on.
Yours very truly,
THE JAPAN ELEOTRIC GEHERATION
& TRANMISSION GO.. LTD.
S.Amis
President

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.89)
THE JAPAN ELECTRI GENERATION & TRANSNI SION Ce LId.
Interest Funde on Bippon Kleatrie Power Co's
Doller Bond.
Due dates Amount of
Depository
Amount paid to
interest
of
Coupon-holdera Design. Foreign
of eoupon
fand
funds
in Japm
Bat. Blook ae
Recuirement
1 Jan.
$ 96,980
Trustee
¥.854,350.77
.74..2
1948
($59,980)
($87,050)
1 July.
 06,980
854.708.54
¥.74.382.程
1948
(850,950)
($87,050)
1 Jan.
$ 96,980
254,708.38
¥74.828.
1945
(859,950)
($57,050)
1 Juy.
$ 86.880
854.708.30
¥74,388.32
1945
($50,950)
($57,050)

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.96)
THE TEIKOKU BANK, LTD.
1811-10
TEL(23)
1681-8
TOKYO. g /4, 1947.
Barris Prest amd Savings Baak,
115, West Monrse Street.
Chleage 90, Illineis.
Re: Wippem Bleetris Poser Company, Limited
Pirst Mertgage 6 % Gold Bonds aue 1953.
Bear Sirs.
With reference to the above eaptioned bonds, we sek-
mewledge reseipt of your letter dated June 2, lg47. hile we
fully realise that we have the responsibility, as a suseesser
Trustee, to repert to you as to measures taken during the war-
time and also present conditions of the Bonds, private eommuni-
eations were not permitteé, causing a great delay in this re-
gard. However, we are now pleased to give you the information,
 requested by your above letter, as per partioulars below:
1. Bstablishment of the Teikoku Bank, Ltd. and its Succession
to the Mitsui Bank, Ltd., Trustee of the Bonds.
(1) The Teikoku Bank, Ltd., Tokyo was established on April
1, 1943, as the result of consolidation of the Mitsui
Bank, Ltd., Tokyo and the Dai-Iohi Ginko, Ltd., Tokyo
(established in June, 1873).
(2)
In aocordance with the Order of the Finanee Minister
dated April 1, 1943, the Teikoku Bank, Ltd. succeeded
at the sme date the business of the Mitsui Bank, Ltd..
the Trustee of the Wippon Bleotrie Power Compeny Limit-
ed First Mortgage 6n % Gold Bonds, due 1953. (Extract
of the said Order "fugin No. 999" is attached hereto).
(3)
According to the provision of the Indenture, the pre-
vieus approval of the Japan Bleotrie Generation and
Tranmission Compamy, Ltd. was obtained in this eon-
mestien. But the other requirement under the provision
of the Indenture. 1.e. approval of the Authentieating
Agent, ws net obtained due to the War.
2. Status of Wippen Mleotrie Power Company First Mortgage Bonds
and the Mortgaged Property.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
(1) Mertgaged Property.
As you kmow, a part of the property eonstitu-
transferred to the Japem Beetrie Gemeratien md Trams-
missien Gompany, Ltd. Sa April 1, 1939, ceatimming te be
ineluded in the Festory Estate. In édditien therete,' a
seeuring the Bonds was transferred en Oeteber 1, 19hl to
the Jayan Eleetrie Generatiem and Treammissiem Compemy,
Ltd., by Order of the Minister of Cemmumieations under
the prevision of the Lew Geverning the Japen Bleetrie
Generatien ane Tranamissien Cempmy, Ltd. Thus, the mab-
stantial part of the properties eomstituting the Pestery
Eatate has been transferred to the Japen Mleetrie Geaera-
tion and Transmission Gompamy. Ltd. still continuing to
be ineluded in the said Factory Bstate.
Other remainins part of the properties ineluded
in the Factery Bstate was transferred, also eontimuing
te be imeluded in it, en April 1, 1942 from Nippon Mest-
rie Power Compamay, Ltd. to the Chubu estrie Supply Cem-
pany, Ltd., the Kansai leotric Supply Company, Léa. mnd
the Hokuriku Bleotrie Supply Gompany, Ltd., esck ef whish
was established by the Orders of the Minister of Gemmemi-
eatiens issued under the Ordinance of the Blectrie Power
Distributien Gontrol which has been formulated with the
aim of more effieient operations and eontrol over the
electrie distribution system in this country.
As you understand from the above stated Nippen
Blectrio Power Company, Ltd. had transferred their all
power plants, transmission lines, substations and other
électric equipments and facilities (ineluding what seeur-
ed other bonds) te the Japen Eleetzie Generatien amd Trams-
Mission Gompany, Ltd. and Blectrie Supply Gompanies and
accordingly elosed their electrie business. Kewever,they
are still ccntinuing other line of business uader the shemg-
ed name of the Wichiden Kogyo Kabushiki Kaishe.
(2) Assumption of the Bemds obligations by the Japm Meetrie
Generation and Transmission Compeny, Lta.
By the Order of the Minister of Communiestiems
issued under the provisions of the Lew Relating te the

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
obligatiems of the Mippon Bleetrie Power Company, Ltd.
Pirst Mertgage 6 % Gola Bonds due 1953, then outstand-
1ng 05.312,000, were assumed on Oet. 1, 1941 by the Japan
Bleetrie Generation and Tranamission Compamy, Ltd. A
Sempmy, Ltd. as the Predeceseor Truster Cempany, Japem
Lestrie Generation and Transmission Company, Ltd. as
the Suocesser Trustor Company and the Mitsui Bank, Ltd.
as the Trustee Gempany.
In this eonneetion, you had already been informed
by our eable dated Sept. 29, 1941 for which we received
e Bee. 4, 1941 yeur letter under the date of Oet 3 mek-
memledging receipt of eur above cable. We also sent to
you sur letter of Oet. 1, l941 enolosing the said Sup-
plememtal Indenture and other doouments concerning the
assumption ef the Bonds, whioh we presume you received
in due sourme. However, just to make sure of it, we beg
to enslese herewith same copies of the above.
Kindly note that we requested the Japanese Gevern-
ment on Ost. 15, 1941 to advertise abroad the notice eon-
eerning the assumption of the Bonds, c opy of whioh is
enslesed herewith.
(3) Cancellation of the re-soquired Bonds, Conversion of the
Beads into Yen Bonds and Assumption of the Bond's Obli-
gations by the Goverment -- Treatment in complianse
with the Lew.
Lecording to the regulatiens of "the Lem Relating
to the Treatment of the Fereign Bonds" (English Bramsla-
tiem atteehed), the Hippon Mlectrie Power Dompemy, Ltd.
Pirst Mertgage Gt % Gold Donds, due 1953, then outstand-
1ng 04,952,000 wére treated in the fellowing manner:-
(a) $1,966,000--re-meguired Bends by the Cempamy were
eameefled on June 26, 1943.
(b) (1,844,000 were eenverted Late Ten Beads with the
censent ef the Dellar Bond-holders in
Japan en Sept. 15, 1943.
(0) $1,140,000 were assumed by the Japanese Government
of the ebligations of the payment of
prineipal md interest of the Benás en
Bopt. 13, 1943.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.95)
-4-
Upon the foregeing assumption, mortgages
make on the Factery Batate and ether ef-
feet of the Indenture, emwept the obli-
gations of the payment of prinoipal and
interest of the Bonds, beome mull md
void. (ef. Article 9. Paragraph II of
the Lem).
At the request of the Japan Bleetrie Generatien and
Tranmission Company, Ltd. we also enolose herewith their
letter ef Sept. 27, 1g46 relating to the above Bonds. Al-
though we believe that the Wiohiden Kogye Kabushiki Kaishs
(fomer Nippon Blectrio Power Compamy, Ltd.) or the Japam
Neetrie Generation and Transmission Oompany, Lsa. will write
to you soen, in reply to yours, we wished to furnish you with
the first hand information as stated above.
We hope the above information will meet your require-
ment and assure you of our pleasure of co-operating with you
in doing the business to our mutual interest.
Yours truly,
For the Teikoku Bank, Ltd.
8ahi
Hanager, Bond Department

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.78)
Nippon Habasdone Kabasiki Kaisgya
(S Tii )
 27.207.
Koisibawa.
To Larvie Trust & Levings Bank,
Gieage,
Magee grtese Peer Ceeery, Lisstel
Ye ege lu reseipt of your letter dated June 2, enclos-
Lng a eegy  yeear Letter asdressed to Nippon eetdc Power
Co., bes, dated ma , comtents as mhieh we have caretully moted.
In reepenge to your above letter we bag to repert you bereander,
semstime reterrins to our previous letter dated sept. 27 last yeer
whiah was ferwarcded you through Teikoks Bank, Lta., succesear
Trustes.
(2) Aeoumptien of Bond Obligatione by the Japan Bleetrle Genere-
Reselling the advice ef Mteui Bank, Lta., Trustee
(new Botkets Yank Ltd., muccesser Trustee), mse to you 
st loster dated Cst. 1, 204l, the abligatians as the above-
menstense Bende were assumed  us, complying with the pre-
visten as the Indentare deted vanuary 2, 1s2s, sscuring said
Rense, La peeerdance with the erder er the Japanese Levera-
m  p  e   he 
To the trestment of Bende In cenasetien with the Elesemée
Power Gemtrel". The dosumeate relating to eaid easmeption
-1-

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.78)
JAPAN ELECTRIC NBRATION &ANANISBON C L
as the caligatsens, ineladins a cepy ef the supplemental
indentare datéd Cst. 1, 194l, exesuted between Mippen Electric
Poer Ce., Lte., Predecesser Traster, Japan Dectric vemeration
è tremamiesien Co., sed., Muccesser Truster, and i itaui wank,
Los., Bresese, were fareersed to you bo the Frustep La Ootober,
o, hery betre th eutheeak as the Great War. At that
time me regeested the Miister af Finanse os the Japanese
Govermm to caale to ite affieial in the Uaited States to
se  to  at yeu fer the punlice notice to be
iven te the gedhelders regarding said assumption, owing
to atssety in teanesittins telderame by private cencerns
 wherdnohin,b m were
ter reen tt said assmption was doubtless appreved
 pe  presedare stipaleted ia the Indenture were duly taken.
Joggt frem your Letter of June last mich s
resedve  a math later, m are afraid the decumests
eáes migt not have boen delivered to you oue to
étep  otherwise. The Trustee is now forverdies you
te an te the beas and intarest as al the beaah
Re the stats a the Nippen eetrie Poser
. 8 -

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.78)
Cope's 20ler e plese rer to u loer d 
taer 7,    as t to T
Bank, Ls, seseesser Trustee, for coaveyamee to you at the
férat ortity hen  omdeatione ere alomd nd
some will be feverded by then. The repert ceatained in
the bee lotter ve sul intariatim  requires  your
Lotter fer the geseral status of the Bende as well as measures
taken ty the Geyerment during the War.
(3) 2  I
Ao you will fiad ta the sald repert, paras to
the e Relating To The Treatmant Oe The Pereiga Benda"
preated ia los, presdares were taken for Bien Dlestrie
Poper Company's Dellar Boads then cststanding § 4,sse, 000,
(a) the reasquired Bends ameanting to § 1,9ss, 000 were
eammelled.
(b) The Bonds ewmed by Japanese and friendly mationals
muating to $ 1,8s, 000 were cenverted.to our com-
pery's demestie bends with censent of sueh emers.
(e) The reminin pert as the utatanding Monde amount-
a to * 1,lu,  wa assumed by the Japanese Gevern-
meat fer the payment as prinsipal af d laterest en
the Boade.
The comverkie d ssumptien stated above were
s n s 16, 200s dotaile as which you wil1 find
ta eade regert Ater the assumptien, the Goverament paid

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.88)
JAANCTRICATION& AN
the onde ting to ,  a the nd aversi d
nou the Bonde are ctstanding the prisepal nt 
 1,lse, c00 as the Japenese Geverament cbligaties.
(4) La Smee  The Prt Med te cure
Ln adéitien te a partíal treaster af preperties
insluded ia the Fastery Eetate sesuring the Benés en April
1. l92e te the Japan Elestrie Generation & Transmission Co.,
Ltd., amother part of the preperties of the Factory Eatate
imelading all water pewer plants held by Nippen Electric
Pewer Co., Ltd., was agaim centributed en Oct. 1, 194l to the
Japan Electrie Generation & Tranamissien Co., Lad. by the
erders of the Japanese Government under the previsien of
Article 4 ef the "Law Geverning the Japan Mectrie Generatien
& Tranamission Co., Lta.", as advised yeu in the telegram
a Bept. 29, 1941 and letter dated Oct. 1, 1941 addressed to
yeu frem the Trustee. By these two comtributieme the sub-
stamsial part ef the property eomprising the Factery Estate
was transferred to us, and that was the reasen wiy, the
obligatiens of the Honds secured by the mertgage thereon were
assumed by us accerding te the Gevernment erder as mentioned
in preceding item (1). It is te be moted that the properties
thas tranaferred to us continued to be included in the Factery
Eatate and subject to the martgage securing the Bonds.
The minor part of the preperties remaining after
the abeve transfers was centributed by Nippen Mleetric Power
- 4-

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.96)
THE JAPAN ELECTRIC GPNERATION & TRANSMISSDON  LM
Kansai Haiden Kabushiki Kaiaha (Kansai Electric Supply Co.,), put(
Chubu Maiden Kabushiki Kaiaba (Chubu Electrie Supply Co.,
Ltd.), partly to Hekuriku Haiden Kabushiki Kaiaha (Hokuriku
Dlectric Supply co., Ltd.), all af which were fermed en said
date under the Electric Distributien Control Crainance. The
Ordinance was promulgated with the aim to effect mere afficient
operation and contrel ever the electric power distributien,
amalgakating xany enterprisers inte nine divisions all over
the tsrritory of Japan, eaeh division having one Electric
Power Distribution Company, Ltd. Those properties transferred
to the above-named three companies were continued te be included
in the Factory Estate mortgaged to secure the bonds.
Under the "Law Relatins to the Treatment of the
Foreign Bonds", upon the assumption of obligatien of payment
of principal and interest of the Bonds effected by the
 Gevernment, the aortgage on the properties of the Factory
Eatate securing the Bonds as well as forces and effects er
original contracts of the Bonds except obligatiens of payzent
of principal ano interest thereef was invelidated as ccawented
in the previous report Item (5) first paragraph (3), (Hefer
to Article 9 Paragraph 2 of the above Law)
For your reference we enclose herewith a list of
properties comprising the Factory Latate showing particulars
of the values and cepreciation amounts, at the time or contri-
bution te our company as well as at the latest closure of
ouruceunts. Purtier a list describans war damages thereof
is alse enclosed, and it is to be noted that the damages
incurred by the war were not heavy and did net hinder the
peratien, but they are under repair er restering.
-  -

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.93)
THE JAPAN ELSCTRIC GENERATION  TRANSMIBBBON C L
Regarding reparatien inquired y you, we bes to
inform that no property includel in the Factery Estate has
been designated as a selectien of interim reparatien
program to subject to removal, theugh other eertain steam
power plants of our company were desigmatec fer suek selec-
tionss
For your informatien we add that Wippon Electrie
Power Co., Lta. had withdrawn from the business of electric
enterprise in consequence of the above stated transfers of
its properties, and changed ita: corporate name to "Tiphiden
Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisna" (in Engliah Japan Electrical Inaustry
Co., Ltd.)
(5) Activities of Jacan Electric Generatien and Tranamieaien
C0.Ltd.
Our corporatiom, as of April 1, 1947, holá and
are operating 386 water power plante with total capacity of
4,677,306 K., 44 steam pomer plants with total capacity of
2, 713, 000 . nominal, but ceducting war damagages and
obsolescence, its available present capacity of s43,00 xw.,
60 substations with total capacity of 5,023, 630 KVA and
tranamission lines in total length of 14, O07 Kilometers
extending all over the territory of Japan.
o? tie above steam power plants 20 plants with
total capacity of 1,37a,20c IW. lave been designated as
selections of the interim reparation pregram subject to
removal by SCAP.
The generated powem are supplied as whole-sale
to mine electric power distribution companies mhieh are
i  -

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.87)
 JAPAN ELACTRIC ATION & TANSNIN C L
alleseted geegraphieally with territeries divided inte sime
arees es Japen Dad distribute pevers to coasumere, with a
few emeeptiens ef direet suppliee to large consumere such
as fertiliser mamufesturers. The pewer generated by us for
the fiseel year or 1946 (from April, 1946 to Marah, 1947)
mas 21,248,464 . and pever purehased 446, s02 m and
pewer seld, less tranamising less say l8s ete., amounte to
19,082, 763 ma. It is to be pointed out that due to the
hertage ef coal in Japan the power supplies cannet at
preseme meet the derands.
The pever tariff of the cerperatien is determined
 the Geverament and in the past subeidy was given by it
them lesses were incurred but which was eliminated after.
Mar 1o. Under the pressure of high cost due to latest
inflatien, the pewer tariff mas substantialiy inereasdd
my.
(6) PMaemetal statemente of Jepan eetric Generation a
Fer yeur information in supplementing to the financial
tatements atteshed to our previous report of Sept. 27, 1946.
w emslese berewith eur balance sheets and income and loss
2000
692 mas to the paymant of interest ane sinkiny runas

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.95)
TEB JAPAN ELCTRIC GENERATION & 1RANSMISON C LM.
the ebligatien of payment of the principal of and interest
en the outstanding Bonds had been assumed by the Japanese
Gevernment as reported yeu abeve.
We believe that the Japanese Government will
intend te take full respensibility in sueh planning se as
to proteet bonaholders' interests, together with all other
foreign bonds assumed by it in l94s. It seems, bevever, unier the
present circumstances in Japan, everything depends on the
decision of the comming peace conferrence. For the present
therefore, it may be very difficult that the probleme con-
cerning the ponde be settled or even be planned.
The question raised by you is placed before parties
concerned for their careful attention, who recognize its
importance and desire to bring about its solution as soon
as pessible. We trust it will receive due consideration
for protection of ue bondholders together with many and
various foreign bands assumed by the Japanese Government
when tre circunstances will prevail to enable it to establish
definit plans.
"e are aiways respecting the Bondtolders' in-
terests anc will do our best for the benefit of ther. we
will advise you as soon as ary progress on the matter has
been mace.
Trusting above informations will sufficiently
clarify the present status of the bonds, and assuring you
not to fail to reply you if you have any further queries.
Yours very truly.
· -

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.94)
THE JAPAN ELCTP!C GRNERATION & TAANSMISBION C LM
The Japan Electrie Generatien
& Tranamission Co., Ltd.
(Édichi Ohnishi)
President.
Enclosures:
1. English translation ef laws in connection with state
centrel of electric power.
2. Englian translatien of the "Law Relating To The Treat-
Lent  The Foreign bonas"
3. Engliah Translation of the "Mectric Distribution
Contrui crainance"
4. List of zortgaged properties of the Factory Estate
securing ue Bonds, giving values and depreciatien
amourt.
5. List or sar daages
6. Financial stateents of Japan Electric Generation &
Tranamission Co., Lta. for terms from Uct. 1, 1943
to Larch 31, 1947.
CC T01
The Beikoku bank, Lta., successor Trustee.
Nichiden kogyo K.K.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.95)
THE TEIKOKU BANK, LTD.
TEL. (23)
1511-10
1581-8
TOKYO.September 3. 1947
dn replying plean refor a 2166.
Harris Trust and Savings Bank.
115 West Monroe Street,
Chieago 90 Illinois.
Re: Nippon Bleotrio Power Company, Limited
First Mortgage 62 Gold Bonds due 1953.
Dear Sirs.
Referring to our letter of August 14, 1947 and at
the request of the Japan Bleotric Generation. and Trans-
mission Company. Ltd. and the Wiohiden Industrial Company.
Ltd. we enolose herewith to transfer their letters dated
ugust 27 and 15, 1947 respeotively with certain enolosures
attasbed thereto.
we hope the above doouments will meet your require-
ment.
Yours truly.
For the Teikoku Bank, Ltd.
S. ahrine
Manager, Bond Department.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.97)
TAAI.SLATICN
Extract of the Order of the Finance Minister
dated April 1, 1943, (Zōgin No. 999) addressed
to the Teikoku Bank, Ltd.
THE TZIKOKU ·BANT. LLITED, TOKYO
1. Marunouchi l-chōme, Kojimachi-ku, Tokyo.
In accordance with Artiole loo of the Corporate Lortgage
Bond Trust Law, the above named,bank shall be desigrated to suo-
oeed the mitsui Bank, Limited as the Trustee of the underwention-
ed oorporate bonds.
1. The corporate mortgage bonds issued by the Japan Blectrio
Generation and Transmission Co., Ltd. (tie former Nippon
Blectrio Power Co., Ltd.) under the Trust Indenture made
batween the former mitsui Bank, Limited and the Company on
January 2, 1928.
Refərence:
The Corporate Kortgage Bond Trust Law, Article loo.
"In compliance with the provisions of the preceding two arti-
cles, when the Trustee has been relieved of or has retired
from the trusteeship or when it has been dissolved or de-
prived of the permission, the competent authority shall
appoint and designate a succeeding Trustee to conduct the
business of Trusteeship."

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.88)
SAAN ELECTRIC CRNERATION & TRANSNIBSION Co. LA.
LA
RELATIAG TO THE TRLATE
OF
THE POREIGA·BULLS
(Law fo.60 Promulgated on karcs. 16, 13)
Tranaleted
The Japam Zestris Geberation
and Tramsmission Co., Ltd.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.94)
TRE JAPAN ELECTRIC CENERATION & TRANSMIBSION C LAd.
Relating to e Fresuent
of
The Foreign Boncs
(Law No. 60 1rouulgatec on larcl. 10, 1543)
Article I.
The foreign Borce referrec to in tlis iaw cenote thè nation-
al poncs, te local government or municipal borcs or corpóration
bonds cenotec in ti.e currencies of t.e inited tate of Aerica
or e Great ritain, as well as tl.e local governnent or munici-
pal bonds, whick, Hough denotec in japarese currency, hold a
special stipulation for rayaent in Britist. currercy at the speci-
.ried exckange rate anx wt.ich further are cesignatec by orcer.
Article 2.
The issuer of the Foreign Bonas (or its successor in ease
where the obligation of payment of principal and interest or the
Féreigm Bands Las been assumed; same being arpliec to herein-
arter) shall issue its national bonas, logal governsent or muni-
egel bonds or corporation bonds aenoted in japanese currancy
Cherelnarter celled as Domestic Bonas) in exchange fer the More-
ms held w tagee designeged by order, and convert thereby
Bond ebligation therefor, notwitu.standing anything
regarde the conversies ef Foreign Bond obligation re-
in thé preseding paragraph, the consent of the holdere

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.96)
THE JAPAN BLECTRIC GRNERATION & TANSMBBION C LA.
of said Foreign Bonds shall be obteined. In the case mentioned
above, should any such holder be Japanese subject designated by
order but his intention be unascertainable, it shall be deeced
his consent has been obtained.
In case of peragraph 1, should there be any, odd sum fall-
ing short of the amount of the minuzun denonination of the
Domestic Bonds, much odd sun sball be peid in cash.
When the converalon of the Foreirn.Bonds have been made
pursuant to the provisdon of paragraph'l, the rii of pledge
on said Foreign Bonds shall likewise continue to be ubjeoted
to the Domestic Bonds to be issued under the provislon of said
paragraph or on the cash payable pursuant to the. provision of
the preoeding paragraph.
Art1ole3.
The prioe of the Foreign Bonds to be converted under the
.provision or the preceding Artiole paragraph l, and other terms
and conditions relating to the ∞nversion thereor other than
those provided in this Law shall be deterzined by the. Govern-
ment through the deliberation of the Foreign Bond Commission.
The dovernment will notify by publication, upon determlna-
tlan, thereof. those metters mentioned in the preceding paregraph.
The Organization and authorities of the Foreign Bond Com-
mission shell be presoribed by imperial ordimance.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.94)
T JAPAN ELECTEIC GENERATIOF & T9ANSMISSION Co. LId.
Article 4.
The certiricatee or the Foreign Bonds, upon their conwer-
miom having been mude in pursuance to the provision of Article
regraph 1, shall becone null and void.
of the coupons detached from tre Toreirn Bonds converted
under the provision or Article 2 paragraph 1, those falling
aeo pext inmediately after the enrorecement of this Lew snall
valid oven after the conversion, and,  owever, those falling
shereafter shell all be void.
T issuer of Buch Foreign Bonds shull make pubiic notice
bond gertificates and the.coupons that have becone null
under the provisions of the precedinr two parerrapns,
however, of those cancelled by the issuer o: such
onds the same shall not be applied.
Article 5.
interest on the Dowestio Bqnds to be issued pursunt
em of Article 2 peragraph 1 shall accrue fron
Hnwing the last day of the period for whien the
 eomputed is payable at the date r Interest
dem.Bonds that falls due next ir jiately
of this Law.
Artiole 6.
the-local governnent or municipal bonds
or tho Foreien Bonds converts then. in
rartiole z paragraph 1, tne Govern-

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.95)
RE JAPAN LECTRI GENERATSON & TRANBIBSION C. LA.
TL
mest will cexpensate fer the lesses incurred by such conver-
sion, as prescribed by order..
The Government will cetermine t'rough the deliberation
of the Foreign Bond Commission the basis by which the losses
te be compeasated by the Goverrment pursuant to the preceding
paragraph shall be workec out.
Article 7.
· The Goverment may celiver govermment bonds fer the com-
pensation provided in the precedini Article paragraph 1.
The price of the government bonds to be delivered pur-
suent to the provision of the preceding paragraph shall be
decided by the Mimister of Finance, taking into consiceration
:of the current price thereof.
The Governaent zay issue govermment boncs up to the limit
of the amount required for delivery pursuant to the provision
of paragraph 1.
Article 8.
The Governmemt may cause the issuer of the local govern-
ment or municipal bonds or the corporatien bonde of the Foreign
Bends cancel, as proviped by order, its reacquired local go-
vernmert er municipal bonds or corporation bonas of the Foreign
Bemds of ite oyn issue, or its reacquired corporation bonds of
the Foreigm Bénde of which the obligations of paymeat of princi-
pel and interest have been aasuséd, motsithatanaing anytring in
the eniginal contrect.
 é pepvtaone of Artiele 4 paragraphs 1 and 3 ahall be

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.97)
JAPAN BUETPIC
likewise applied in case of the cancellation referred to in
the preceding paragraph.
Article 9.
The Goverment will assuse, as prescribed by order, the
obligation of payment of principal and interest of the local
government or sunicipal bonds or the corporation bonds of the
Foreign Bonas other than those converted under the provision
of Article 2 paragraph 1.
In the case of the preceding paragraph, the sortgage on
the properties securing eaió local government or municipal
bonds or corporation bonas and other effect of the priginal
contracts thereof ahall becóme nulland void exeept the obligation
of payment of principal  a tmterest.
Article 10.
In the case of the preceding Article paragraph 1, the is-
suer of saád local-government or wunicipal bonas or corporation
bonde shall pay, as proviced by oréer, to the Government the
consideration for the assumption.
The Government shall ceteraime through the aeliberation
of the Foreign Bond Commission the basis by which the conside-
ration to be paiù fer by said issuer pursuant to the provision
of the preceding paragrapt shall be cecidec.
Articlè 11.
The payment for consideration referred to in the preceding
Article paragraph 1 may be sade witt the local goveriment er

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.95)
THE JAPAN ELECTPIC GENEÍATION & TRANISION Co. L.d.
punicipal bond certiricates or the corporat on bona or aeben-
ture certificstes issuea by saic issuer as proviced by oraer.
The price or the local voverrnent or wunicipal bona cer
tificates or corporation bond or ceterture certificates to be
peid with pursuant to bhe precedins paragraph shall be deciaea
by the Vinister of -inance, takins into consiceration of the
current price thereof.
Article 12.
Icse, wlo will receive tlie coupensation for losses pur-
euant to the provision of Article t paragraph 1 and coinci-
dently srall tave to pay the consideration pursuant to the
provisior of Article 10 paragraph 1, stall be paid by the
Governaent the sun cf aoney eguivalent to the excess in case
wtere the ccapensation exceeds the consiceration, and shall
fay to the Gavernment the sun of morey equivalent to the ex-
cess in case where consiceration exceeds the compensation,
notaittatancing te provisions'of Article 6 páragraph 1 ana/or
Article 10 paragrapt 1.
The provisions or Article 7 ara/or tie preceing Article
shall be likewise appliec to the prececing paragraph.
Articie 13.
The Government may guarantee, shen cessed necessary, the
payment of principal and interest of 'the corporation bonds or .
éebentures to be issued under the provisions or Article 2
paragraph 1 er Article 11 paragraph 1. (including the case
likewise'applied' to under the pasceeding Article paragraph 2 ;

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.94)
TRE JAPAN ELBCTFIC GENBRATION & TRANSMMSION C. IAL
..c bell eppliec to lereinafter.)
Article 14.
Tl€ issuer of the corporation bonas of L.e Foreign Bonas
n.ay issue its bords or ceber tures pursuant to w.e provisions
of Article 2 peragrapt. i ara/or Article 11 para,rap). 1 in ex-
cess of ti.e linitetior prescribea ty otl.er laws, orainances or
orert.
IHe provisione of Articles zoo, zre arc 3ci or the Coa-
Dercial Coce si.all not be uppliec to ti.e corporation bonas or
celentures prescribec in the prececing paragrapr.
Articie lt.
The issuer of ti.e local soverrment or Lunicipal bonds or
ti.e corporaticn bonus or the roreign Honcs shali not be re-
quirec to optain peraission or sanction proviceo in otier laws,
orcirarces or orcers in connection with tie converslon of the
Foreign Bons unuér the provision of Article 2 paragraph 1,
the cancellation of te Foreign Bonds unuer the provision of.
Article 8 paragraph 1 ana the issuance of the lácal goverrment
or aunicipal bonds or the corpuration bords or cebentures under
the provision of Article 11 paragrapl. 1. .
Article iu.
Matters necessery in regarc to the treataert of the
Foreign Boncs otler tlan provicec in tiis Law slali be pre-
ecribec by orcer.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.93)
THE JAPAN BLBCTPIC GENERATION & TRANSMISSION Co LA.
Artiele 17.
Tre Lity cf Nagoya shall redeeu. in sparese currercy the
City or Nagoye t& Sterling Bonds of the prircipai anount of
£ 800, O00 ownec by those cesignateu ty orcer, notwitl.starcing
the provisiors of ti.e originai cortract.
The Frovisions. of Articie 2 paraere:1 2, rticle 3 para-
graphe 1 arc 2, Article 4 paragraphs 1 arc 3, iiticies o to
12, Article it anc tr.e preceuing Articie si uil De iixewise ap-
pliec to saic Eorcs ir. the prececine Faracrajl..
Articie 18.
The coupone o! t.e Foreign Boncs arc of the pubiic concs
referrec to in the Irececing Articie :aregraph. ., tlat ave
been paid by orcers pursuart to tle Foreign xciarve ccrtrol
Law or tl.e Enecy Assets Acniristraticn Lev, s1.sll beccme rull
aná voia.
The provisior of rticle 4 paragraul 3 stall be likevise
applied to we case of tl.e prececing far, rapi..
Article 19.
In case the issuer of we corpuratior buucs oi te soreigr.
mends arall cause its corpcration bores or cepertures issuec
mmrsuant to the provisions of Articie 2 paragrapl. i or Article
 paregraph 1 to be registerec at ti.e lan-court, t:e registra-
tax shell be one tousarctl. of t.e puic-ir alourt u.ereof.
Article 20
me Govermment may, whenever ceemec recessarj, as pro-
rer, collect reports or ay cause its coupetent
-8-
12

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.92)
:
orricials to visit the place déezed necessary fer inspectien
and to eramine ledgers, documents, papérs or other properties.
Articie 21
Persons who stall not submit reports or shall fiie false
reports against requirezent uncer the provision of the prece-
cing Article or zake untrue statecents on the docusents to be
presented by the orcer fssuec purstant to this Law shall be
llable to e fine not exceeding five bundred yen.
Parsons who refuse, interfere with, or evade inspection
referred to in the precedirg Article shell be likewise liable
to te saze penalty as nentioned in tie práceding paragraph.
Article 22.
In case where agents, enployees or other starr of a juri-
dical person or an inaivicual slall comit suct a violation as
mentionec in the preceding Article paragraph 1 in connection
witt. the busimess of the aforeaentioned Juridical person or
incivicual, such. juridical ferson or inciviaual slall not be
free fron the penalty tlerefor on the grounc that such acts
were rot cirectec by bin:
Tre penalty of the prececirg Article 1 paragraph 1 stall
be eptliea to officers, cirectors or otter executive officers
in case of a juricical person or to statutory. agents in case
of minors or incoapetert persors, provided, towever, minors,
taving the same qualification as acults so far as the businese
is concernec, slell not be exenpted from this penalty.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.90)
THE JAPAN BLEOTRI : GENERAT
S
Article 23.
The penal clauses of this Law shell not be appliec to
State, Prefectures, Cities, Towns, Villages anc any political
sub-division similar to ti.e above.
Supplenentary Frovision
This Law shail be effective as or arc fron .e cate of
its prosulgatior.
- 10 -

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.97)
The National City Bank
9c/R
of New York
TRUST DEPARTMENT
November 12, 1947
22 WILLIAM STREET
894.5
CABLE ADDRESS "CITIBANK"
IN REPLYING PLEASE OUOTE
Re:
Ujigawe Electric Power Company, Limited First
Mortgege 7% Sinking Fund Gold Bonds dated
March 15, 1925, due March 15, 1945
INCH
Secvetery of State
EVEA
BON
Hasufngton, D. C.
DIVISION OF FIANNCIAL AFFANRS
i6 F11 fam 11/16/4
NDHOLDERS/11-1247
Atteation: Mr. James C. Corliss, Assistant Chief
NOV131947
Divisian of Financial Affairs
Reply 6/1/48
1.;
R
DEPÁRTMENT OF STATE
Gentlemen:
FN-V.W.Jane
As successor Fiscal Agent under an Indenture, dated Merch 15, 1925,
between Ujigawa Electric Power Company end The Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited,
City of Tokyo, Japan, Trustee, under which the subject bonds were issued and sold
in the umited States, we previously advised the Department of State that these
bonds are secured under said Indenture by & first mortgage on the property of the
Company included in and comprising a Factory Estate created under the laws of the
Empire of Japan and duly registered on April 24, 1925, in Japan in the Fushimi
Registry Court under the jurisdiction of the Kyoto Local Court, as Factory Estate
No. 8. In addition, Ujigawa Electric Power Company, Limited, deposited and pledged
with the Trustee assignments in blank of all its concessions for water rights,
power licenses and franchises and its contract for electricel power with Daido
Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha (Great Consolidated Electric Power Company, Limited).
The mortgeged property includes power plants, sub-stations, switching stations,
trensmission, telephone and distribution lines, water concessions, electric fran-
chises, as completed and owned by the Corporation prior to March 19, 1925, and all
additional property or rights thereafter acquired by the Corporaticn end constitu-
ting replacements, renewals, extensions and improvements of or additions or appur-
tenances to any part of the Factory Estete.
Pursuant to "Law Relating to the Treatment of Foreign Bonds" (Law No. 60
promulgated March 15, 1943), the mortgages on the property securing the subject
894.51
bonds became null and void. We have been advised that, if requested by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, the Japanese Government will cause the mortgages
securing these bonds to be reinstated and it is respectfully requested that the
S
Civil Property Custodian Division of S.C.A.P. be authorized through the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers to make demand on the Japanese Government fo  the.
reconstitution of the said mortgages.
We also call attention to the designation of the Kizugawa Steam Power
Plant as a reparation selection by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
The Kizugawa Steam Power Plant was included as part of Factory Estate No. 8 mortgaged

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Secretary of State
November 12, 1947
to secure the subject bonds. This particuler property was transferred on April
1, 1939, to the Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission Company, Lid.,
subject to the mortgage securing the subject bonds.
The subject bonds were originally issued in the principal amount of
$14,O00,O00 and according to The Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited, Trustee, the
principal amount of the bonds now outstanding is $864,000.
Respectfully yours,
THE NATIONAL CITY BANK OF NEN YORK
Stenary e Teatt.
By
Stewart C. Pratt
Vice President

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.94)
MAR 171948
Ia reply refer to
894.51
N 894.51 Bendholders/
11-2047
The Denver National Bank,
Denver, Pennsylvania.
BONDHOLDERS/11-2
Sirs:
Referenoe is made to your letter or Movember 20.
1947, and to the Department's asknowledgmenm of Deeember
1, 1947, relative to a $5,000.00 Oriental Developmems
Company, Limited, bond, and & $5,000.00 Tokyo Elestrie
Light Company, Limited, bond whioh you own.
The Department will make a resord, fer sueh use as
may be found to be appropriate, of the information yeu
have submitted, but in order that there may be mo mis-
understanding of the significanse of its sseeptamee of
this data, there is sot forth a brief statemes relive
to the Department's position with respeot to sueh bomds.
-2047
The Department considers that investment in fereigm
bonds is primarily a private transaction into whish the
purohaser voluntarily ent ers after caleulation of the risks
involved. In case of default on dollar vonds issued by
private entities, it is assumed that the holders will i
la.
methods to exeroise any rights they may possess, whemever
and wherever resort to such measures is possikle, Im ease
of default on dollar bonds issued by or guaranteed by
governmental entities, as are the bonds mentiened by you,
it is not the praotice of the Department to negotiate
direetly for Amerioan holders, but it does endeavor to
C
894.57
render such assistance as it properly can to such holders
S
or their representatives. In this connection attention
A1
may be called to the Foreign Bondholders Protestive
Council, Incorporated. 90 Broad Street, New York, Mew
York, organized several years ago to serve as a central
representative body. Although it was established
with the encouragement of the Depertment, the Couneil
aets
F214
2
100

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.95)
aets en its respemsibility. Some time see, as the
mander for the Allied Powers, at Tolkye, a semplete stats-
Japamese coveramental entities. This statement wes soms
fer the information and use of the Politieal Aaviser nd
of the appropriate seotion of the Staff of the Supreme Sem
The Department believes that the Coumcil is mime
the interests of American holders of sush obligaams and
that it will, when cesasion offers, take ssch steps as is
considers to be to the advantage of thaholders. You may
wish to write to the Council in conneetiom with the bemds.
mentioned by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is net
in a position to state now what provisions, if any.
affecting such obligations, may be contained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provisién for slaims
arising from the war may be made. As you doubtless
know, there will be many olaims and demends against
Japan, and against Japanese municipalities and persens,
of which such obligations as those to whieh you refer
will probably constitute but a amall part.
Nevertheless, as indioated above, the Depertmemt
will make a resord or the information you have submitted
regarding your holdings. If it should later be found
advisable for individual Ameriean holders te take fur-
ther steps, due announcement will be made in the publle
press.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
James C. Corliss, Assistams Chies
Divieion of Finaneial Affairs
/FN:VWJones:rt
3/9/48
Un
16 1948

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.94)
No.6037.
The DenverNational Bank
Gapital $50,000.
Surplas andprofts $650,000
Denver, Pa.
Nov. 20, 1947.
LEGALADVISER
The Department of State
NOV 2 5 1947
Washington, D.C.
LEM
Gentlemen:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
262-H
We have been in communioation with the Office of lien
Property bf your city regarding our ownership of 2 bond issues of
the Japanese Government or a subsidiary of that government. These
bonds are $ 5,O00.00 par of the Oriental Developement Company,Ltd
and $ 5,O03.00 par of the Tokyo Eleotrio Company p.
Should you wish any more information that our interests
may be properly safeguarded, please let us know and we will prompt-
ly inform you in all respests you may request.
Thanking you for any interest you may be able to give to
us, we are,
Heixry
8/11-
Very dincerely,
-2047
Cashier.
ac
JUN121951
OF FINNCIAL AFFINES
FILED
C
FHfak 12/1/47
S/A
NOV2 81947
DCB - CLAIMS UNIT
Anemered 3/9/48
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FN.J.C. lusline
An

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.94)
CITY BANK & TRUST COMPANY
LEGAL/ADVISER
NAT. 2FsS, 1147:
NOV 2 6 1947
276-H
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
4.51 BONDHOLDER
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Attn. Legal Adviser.
Dear Sir:
I am the owner of $2,000.00 Imperial Japanese
Government Bonds 52's External Loan of 1930, due 1965,
and am making claim through the Office of Alien Property
Custodian.
Please advise if you have any further information
on the above in which I might be interested. I will appre-
ciate your advices as our bank  has other customers
who own some of these and also German bonds.
Thanking you, I am
EACH
Very truly yours,
5
2
JUN12 1951
Vice-President.
JBK/W
FILED
Encl. 1
aG.
894.51
DCR - CLAIMS UNIT
DRESION OF FRENCHL AFFIERS
EP
ach rF- farme12/18/4
11-2147
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FN-Zttaoot
V.W.Goe

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.92)
BANK & TRUST CO
NATCHEZ. MISSISGIPPI
Nov. 21st, 1947.
Seeretary of the Office of Alien Property Custodimme
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Sir:
APC-1C and thank you for sending same.
I have executed and eneleve
Form ArCelC and will thank you ts
vory traly yours,
Releogg
100-resident.
partment of state
an. Legal Aáviser,

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.96)
MAR 221948
In reply refer to
004.s1 Bondholders
/21-2849
894.51
My dear Miss Gosts:
Reference is made to your letter of November 25, 196y
BONDHOLDERS/11
5-1/2% bond due in 1958 whieh you hold.
but the following may be helpful to your understanding f
the Department's position with respeot to sush obligatiens.
The Department considers that investment in foreig
bonds is primarily a private transaction into whiek the
case or default on dollar bonds issued by private eatisiess
sary, to avail themselves of the usual methods to exereise
any rights they may possess, whenever and wherever resers
to sueh measures is possible. In case of default on dellar
2547
bonds issued by or guaranteed by governmental entitiesy s
can to such holders or their representatives. In this esm-
New York, whieh was organized several years age te serve
on its own responsibility. Some time ago, at the requess
of the Couneil, the Department sransmitted to the Uaited
States Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander fer the
8
S
dellar
DC4LOFD Unit
Xiss Jessie Goets,
3828 Cass street, Apta16
Omaha S, Nebraska.
Dist.

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.96)
一2-
dellar boads lssued er guaraateed by Jepanese gevern-
mental entities. This statement was sent fer the
Information and use of the Politieal Adviser and af the
appropriate section of the staff of the Sapeeme Gemmem-
der, and for smek astien as might be eonsidered appre-
priate in the proteotion of the Amerieam interest
Involved. The Department believes that the Gounell is
mindful of the interests of Amerioan holders of susk
such steps as it considers to be to the advantage of the
holders. Tou may wish to write to the Counsll In eem-
neetion with the bond mentioned by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not im
a position to state now what provisions, if any, affeeting
such obligations, may be contained in the Pesce Treaty with
Japan, or what provision for olaims arising from the war
may be made. As you doubtless know, there will be many
claime and demands against Japan, and against Japaness
municipalities and persons, of whioh such obligations as
that to whioh you refer wiil probably constitute but a
small part.
Nevertheless, if you are an American citizen, the
Department will be glad to make a record of your holding
for possible future use. In addition to the data eem-
tained in your letter or November 25, 1947, you showld alse
furnish to the Department a statement giving the manmer ane
date of your acquisition of this bond, the purchase priee.
the last payment of interest thereon, and the manner
(whether by birth or naturalizatiom) and date of your as-
quisition of American citizenship. If citisenahip was
acquired by naturalization, the name and location of the
Court granting citizenship should also be given. If it
should later be found advisable for individuml holders to
take further steps, due announcement will be made in the
publie press.
Meanwhile, your attention is called to the fact that
the Offioe of Alien Property is entertaining debt claims
of American citizens against certain Japanese assets
vested

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.92)
vestel by that ofriee. The
Dopartment 1a mot imfe
as te whether assets of the Orlentel Dovelegmant
Washington, D. G., er from any Baitel States sttermay.
Sinserely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
James C. Corliss
ssistant Chief
Division of Fimaneial Arfairs
CR
MAR 19 1948 P.
FN:VWJores:gwe
3/10/48
OFD
8/8-CR
FU

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.85)
Washing
Lentlemen:-
I have heen ado
get in touch with
regard to getting ing
about fareign pecur
I have a 500 bo
the Oriental Develofine
Gamfiany, Ltd. (Exteruml
30 year 5/2 7% -gold deken
bond dice srovemher 1,195
of Jafian.
If you cau give
any information 
Iwou
regard to this.
afifireccate it very
STATE
yor truly.
=第escie Ga
REEYE
PENT
8828 leasa
4
197T DEC
Dmiaha 3. heb
Anal. a
DCR- CLAIMS UNIT
Rev. 
Dist.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.96)
MAR17-48
#94.51 Bondholders
/11-2847
4.51 BONDHOLDERS/11-2847
My dear Mrs. Working:
Reference is made to your letter of November 28.
1947, and to the Department's acknowledgement of
December 9, l947, relative to a 7% Ujigawa Eleetrie
Power Company, Limited, dollar bond whioh you hold.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, but the following may be helpful to your
understanding of the Department's position with respeet
to such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into whieh the
purchaser enters after caloulation of the risks involved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by private
ontities, it is assumed that the holders will be pre-
pared, if necessary to avail themselves of the usual
methods to exercise any rights they may possess, when-
ever and wherever resort to suoh measures is possible.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by or guaran-
teed by governmental entities, as is the bond mentioned
by you. it is not the praotice of the Department to mego-
leir
tiate direotly for Anerican holders, but it does endea-
vor to render such assistance as it properly can to sush
holders or their representatives. In this sonneetiom
attention may be called to the Foreign Bondholders Pro-
tective Gouneil, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, Mew York,
New York, whieh was organized several years ago to serve
as a central representative body. Although it was estab-
lished with the encouragement of the Department, the
Council acts on its own responsibility. Some time ago,
at the rsquest of the Counoil, the Department transmitted
to the
S
20
Mrs. B. J. Working,
1V
910 West Oregon Street,
Urbana, Illinois.
9
8

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.97)
to the Uaited States Politieal Adviser to the Supreme
Semmander for the Allied Powars, at Tokyo, a semplete
statement regarding the dollar bonds issued er gear-
anteed by Japanese governmental entities. Thissstate-
ment was sent. for the information and use of the
Political Adviser and of the appropriate seetion of the
Starr of the Supreme Commander, and for suek astiom as
might be considered appropriate in the protestiom of
the American interest involved. The Department believes
that the Couneil is mindful of the interests or Amerieam
holders of suoh obligations and that it will, when
occasion offers, take such steps as it considers to be
to the advantago of the holders. You may wish to write
to the Counoil in conneotion with the bondsmentiemed by
you.
It will besappreciated that the Department is mot
in a position to state now what provisions, if any,
affecting such obligations, may be contained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provision for elaims
arising from the war may be made. As you doubtless
know, there will be many claims and denands aguinst
Japan, and against Japanese municipalities and persons,
of which such obligations as that to whioh you refer
will probably conatitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, if you are an Ameriean eitisen, the
Department will be glad to make a record of your holding
for possible future use. In addition to the date con-
tained in your letter of November 28, 1947, you should
also furnish to the Department a statement giving the
manner and date of your aoquisition of this bond, the
purchase price, the face value, the last payment of
interest thereon, and the manner (whether ty birth or
naturalization) and date of your asquisition of American
eitizenship. Ir citisenship was moquired by naturalisa-
tion, the name and location of the court granting eitisem-
ship mhould also be given. Ir it should later be found
advisable for individual holders to take further steps,
due announcement will be made in the publie press.
Sineerely yours,
CK
For the Seeretary of State:
MAR 16 1948
James C. Corliss, Lasistant Chfa
Divigion of Finansial Affair
FN:VJbnes:rt
3/8/48
OFD

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.89)
ack FN Jarm 10/4/47
DEC 9 1947
DCk
Anumend 3/8 /48
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
910. Oregon St.
Urbuna, Illinois
Nov. 28, 1947
LEGAL ADVISER
Legal Adviser
Department of State
"ashington, D. C.
CDEC3-1947
BONDI
DE OF IATE
Dear Sir:
I have been aiviseu by Assistant Attorney General David L. Bazelon
of the Office of Alien Property, U. . De artment of Justice, thet
it ignt be well for me to rite you with regard to the liguidating
of a Ja.anese bond vnich I nola.
The bona in  uestion is one issued in 1925 by the Ujigawa Electric
Pover Co., Ltu. and is a First Hortgage 7% Finking Fund Gold Bond, due
March 15, 1945. Interest payments ceased in 1942, and the bond is now
overaue. It was registered October 27, 1941, FORl TFEL-2, -357817-A.
Lir. Bazelon hes raiseu uestions as to whether the Japanese Gov-
ernment ever acquired the property of the Power Co., and whether the
Government i guaranteeu its bonis, but tiere seems to be no defini-
tive information on these tters. Tne bond, and each of the coupons
tutes that the interest will be pai. ". . . in time of war as well as
in time of peace . . ."
as
I snouli take in tais matter.
1595
35
894.51
CC
Yours very truly,
qeutend B. working
DEARENT
い
(rs. E. J.. Working)
C
1
Lioi
VVL

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.85)
LE
DRN OF FINCN AFTNRS
F1 am 1/16/48
DEC 311947
Jeu
CHARLES HARVEY FAHS
 CLAREMONT AVENUE
D2e18,19470
Legal Caronser
LEGAL ADVISER
Dept. of State
(DEC 151947)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BONDHOLD
washinglan, D.C.
-8
nagotable golsbonss, Iuparial Japanese
4
0
DERS
Govommant External loan 9 1924, 30 year
trki t),  150, 000,00 n o F1,
1954.
ne thesr bonss nor f anyralue
maliged ? Coupans f conse Rair not barn
outached pince Prasl Harbor.
CS/A
I am not the Chanles B. Faks who aightoon
morths go was heas  Jar Est dntulligince in the
Dept.g Sate. weis my oan.
Aniciry youss Shonleyt. Sads
5
APR16 943
FILED
R
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.95)
MAR 2 51948
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/12-847
/12-064
22
My dear Mr. Fahs:
redative to two $100.00 Imperial Japanese €-1/as bends d
in l9s4 held by you. You inquire as to how you mighs
realise the value of these bonds.
At the request of the United States Seeurities and
Exahange Commission, no transactions in Japanese bonds have
been made by brekers or dealers sinee December l9él. The
Department is therefore umable to suggest possible diepesi-
tion of your holdings at the present time or the value
thereof.
A definitive statement regarding the future of these
bonds is not now possible, but the following may be helpful
to your understanding of the Department's pesitien with
respeet to suoh obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transastion into whish the
purchaser enters after caloulation of the risks involveé.
In cass of default on dollar bonds issued by ergamramteeß
by governmental entities, it is not the practice of the
Department to negotiate direetly for Amerioan holders, bat
it does endeavor to render sush assistance as it preperly
can to such holders or their representatives. In this ses-
neetion attention may be ealled to the Foreigm Bondholders
Protective Counoil, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New Yerk,
New Yerk, whieh was organized several years ago te serve as
a sentral
CS/V
Mr. Charles N. Faks,
99 Claremont Avenue
Noy York, 27, New York.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.95)
一2-
lisked with the eneeuragement of the Department, the
ted to the United States Pelitical Aaviser te the S
guaranteed by Japanese governmental entities. This
statement was sent for the informatiom and use of the
Political adviser and of the appropriate sestion of the
Staff of the Supreme Gommander, and for sush astiom as
might be considered appropriate in the protectiom of the
Amarican interest involved. The Department believes thas
the Gouncil is mindful of the interests of Amerieam helders
of such obligations and that it will, whem oeeasiem effers,
take such steps as it considers to be to the alvaatage at
the holders. You may wiah to write to the Goumell in
conneetion with the bonds mentioned by you.
It will be appreclated that the Department is mot in
a position to state now what provislons, if any, affest-
ing such obligations, may be contained in the Pease freaty
with Japan, or what provision for elaims arising from the
war may be made. As you doubtless know, there will be
ese municipalities and persons, of whick sush obligatiems
as those to whieh you refer will probably comstitute bet
a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department is glad to make a
can citizens of such bonds. In additiom to the data eem-
tained in your letter of December 8, l947, you should alse
furnish to the Department a statement giving the mammer
and date of aoquisition of your boads, the purohase prise,
and the manner (whether by birth or naturalizatiom) and
date of aoquisition of Ameriean citizenship by you. If
citizenship was aoquired by maturalization, the name and
location of the court granting citizenahip should alse be
given. If it ahould later be found advisable for imdivi-
dual holders to take further steps, due announcement will
be made in the public press
Meanuhile,

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.92)
of Ameriean eitisens against eertain Jajamess asseté
vested by that ofriee. Amerieam helders ef bemds of
ton, D.G., whieh will iaform elaimants whether amy messts
of partieular debtors have been vested. Details relative
to the matter may be obtained from the Offies of Aliem
Property or from any Umited States attorney.
Sincerely yours,
For the Beoretary of state:
James C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
Ch
MAR 25 1348 PM.
FN:VWJohes:gwe
3/10/48
8/S-CR
(FL)

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.95)
Banque Belge pour l'Etranger (Guerseas) Ltmtted.
Affiliated to the Sociots Génerale d Bolgique
67 WALL STREET
Heaid Office
LONDON
RECEIVED
DC/R
NEW YORK 5, N. Y., December 9, 1947
DEPT. OF STATE
United States Department of State
Washington, D. C.
DIVIS.ON OF O
Attention: Mr. O.J. McDiarmid, Assistant Chief of the Division
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/12-947
of Occupied Areas and Economic Affairs.
ECONOXIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEC 16.1947
Gentlemen,
We have been requested by the Banque de la Société Générale de
Belgique, Brussels, to ascertain what formalities are to be complied
with in order to enable them to obtain the replacement of the fol-
lowing bonds:
Nom. $ 3,000.- JAPAN 5 1/2% 1965
Nom. $ 20,000.- JAPAN 6 1/2% 1954
which wero in their possession on May 10, 1940, date of the invasion
of Belgium, and which were voluntarily destroyed by them by inbimer-
ation on May 21, 1940, in order to prevent them from falling in the
enemy's hands.
We would mention that this request had been tranamitted to the
Office of Alien Property, Department of Justice, which now inform us
that same might be addressed to you.
E
EB25
FILED
We thank you for your cooperation, and remain,
19
Very truly youre
894.51
BANQUE BELGE POUR L'ETRANGER
(OVERSEAS) LIMITED
DCR- CLAIMS UNIT
NEW YORK AGENCY
EP
ral.
M
tl
Asst. Manager
TJK/mf
-949

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.90)
In reply refer to
894.51
O 894.51 Bomdholdera/12-947
001007
Banque Belge Pour 1'Etranger
(Overseas) Limited,
New Yerk Sgenay,
BONDHNOLDERS/12-947
67 Wall Street,
Now York 5, N. X.
Referemoe is made to your letter of December 9, 1947, in whisk
you state that you have been requested by the Banque de la Sesisté
Générale de Belgique, Brassels, to aseertain wkat formalities are
ment of certain Japanese Goverament bonds whieh were volmatarily
destroyed on May 21, 1940, in order to prevent them frem falling
into the hande of the emesy.
It is regretted that the information you require is met avail-
able bere. However, it is suggested that you may wish to raise the
matter, either direetly or threugh the Belgian Embassy in Washington,
D. C., with the Belgian Governmsat Representative in Tekye, Japas.
He will be in a position to pursee the matter with the apprepriate
Japanese Government agency through General Eeadquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan.
Sincerely yours,
2
For the Acting Seeretary of State:
DCR OFD Unit
ral
CE
Roswell H. Whitman
Acting Chief
DBC 29* 1947 P.
Divisien of Oecupied Areas
Eoomomic Affairs
S
.
eer
OE:RHParke: nw
WEC
12/17/47
WE
A-8
46

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
MAR 17 1948
In reply refer to
B94.51 BONDHOLDER$/12-947
N 894.51 Bondholders/
12-947
My dear Mr. MacEvan:
Reference is made to your letter of December 9,
1947 relative to two $l00.00 Imperial Japanese Gevern-
ment bonds whioh you hold.
A derinitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, but the following may be helpful to your
understanding or the Department's position with respeet
to such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into which the
purohaser enters after caloulation of the risks involved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by or guaran-
teed by governmental entities, it is not the practice
of the Department to negotiate direotly for American
holders, but it does endeavor to render sueh assistance
as it properly can to such holders or their representa-
tives. In this connection attention may be called to
the Foreign Bondholdera Proteotive Counoil, Incorporated,
90 Broad Street, New York, New York, whioh was organized
several years ago to serve as a central representative
body. Although it was established with the encourage-
ment of the Department, the Counoil aots on its own
responsibility. Some time ago, at the request of the
Counoil, the Department transmitted to the United States
Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, at Tokyo, a somplete statement regarding the
94.51
dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by Japanese governmen-
tal entities. This statement mas sent for the informa-
tion and use or the Political Adviser and of the appro
priate section or the Staff of the Supreme Commander, S
and for
Mr. Koith M. MaoEvan,
Flinton,
OFDU
Ontario, Canada.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
and for such action as might be considered appropriaté
in the protection of the American interest involved.
The Department believes that the Council is mindful of
the interests of holders of suoh obligations and that
it will, when occasion offers, take suoh steps as it
considers to be to the advantage of the holders. You
may wish to write to the Council in conneetion with
the bonds mentioned by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not
in a position to state now whet provisions, if any.
affecting such obligations, may be contained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provision for elaims
arising from the war may be made. s you doubtless
know, there will be many claims and demands against
Japan, and against Japanese municipalities and persons,
of which such obligations as those to which you refer
will probably constitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, if you are an American citizen, the.
Department will be glad to make a record for sueh future
consideration as may be found to be appropriate, of your
holdings. In addition to the information contained in
your letter of December 9, 1947, you should furnish to
the Department the exact desoription of the bonds, giving
the interest rate and dates of issue and maturity, the
manner and date of acquisition, the purchase prioe, the
last payment of interest thereon, and the manner (whether
by birth or naturalization) and date of your mequisition
of American citizenship. If citizenship was acquired by
naturalization, the name and location of the court
granting oitizenship, and the number of the relative
certificate should also be given. Ir it should later be
found advisable for individual holders to take further
steps, due announoement will be made in the public press.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chief
Division or Financial Affairs
Tu
FN:VWJoues:rt
3/11/48
Ch
AR 17 194

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.97)
17948
UNCLASSIFIED
No.58
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/12-947
To the
Officer in Charge of the Amerioan Mission,
Ottawa.
The Seoretary of State enoloses a copy of a letter
dated December 9, 1947, from Mr. Keith M. Maosvan,
Flinton, Ontario, Canada, relutive to two $1oo.00
Imperial Japanese bonus which he holas. There is also
onolosed the separtment's reply thereto. It would be
appreoiuted ir this reply would be transmitted to the
inquirer, unless the nbassy perceives objeotion there-
to.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of letter from
894.51Bon
Mr. Macsvan;
CSN
Ch
894.51 Bondholders/12-947
AR I7 19
Mr. Livesey
FN:VWJons:rt 3/12/48

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.85)
DEC221947
Ansmered 3/12/v8
Canada
ONT OF STATE
Defoghment of Itate
CES LEGAL ADVISER
894
DEC181947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
597-H
.51
4.
α
C
In compharce with a suppe
ion serom the Ao sestant attornry tener
rol
nthuch I own.
I have hivs one tundnd dalle
S
bonas on whicth serer hostibhis
2
94
be ween Tajia.. a d uo began, the
in tereet hunot been paid And
N
12 1951
prencepal oum u t in tereal
68
Utready I am filling out
h
Li quured form 4 se, I me  ty the abme
is
men tinid gen Hem an. ten ty adorae
Y ouns Treny tiutly,
oedere
-947

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.94)
FILE NO.
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM!
894.51 B0NDHOLDERS/12-1247
R E C O R D C O P Y
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
DESP.1451 FROM TOKYO
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
--00o--
28100
FILD
FAP

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.96)
T06 194
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIZER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, December 12, 1947
Reed.
UNCLASBIFIED
Dee. 29
AOPION
o.1451
OFD
894.51
INFO
OCD
DCR
SUBJECT: Request by the Foreign Bondholders Proteetive
TE
AS
Council, Incorporated, Regarding Specifie
Japanese Dollar Bond Issues.
0-0-0
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to
refer to the Department's airmail instruction No. 602,
November 21, 1947, enclosing a'request by the Foreign
Bondholders Protective Council, Incorporated, regarding
specific Japanese dollar bond issues. This request
was forwarded to the office of the Civil Property Custodiax
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, which obtained the required information from the
Financé Ministry of the Japanese Government.
12-124
Copy of the completed forms containing the informa-
tion requested and a letter to the Foreign Bondholders
Protective Council, Incorporated, are enclosed.
Enclosures:
1. Single copy of completed
forms in seven pages
relative to Japanese dol-
lar bond issues.
2. Letter to Mr. A.H. Wylie of
Foreign Bondholders Protective
Council, Ino., with enclosed
forms.
Original and ozalid to Department.
851
RBFinn:mhp

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.96)
MAR 171948
In reply refer to
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/12-1847
N 894.51 Bondholders
/12-1847
My dear Miss Herz:
Reference is made to your letter of Desember 18,
1947, and to the Department's acknowledgment of December
30, l947, relative to certain external bonds issued by
the Imperial Japanese Government and the City of Yoko-
hama wiich you own. It is assumed that these bomds are
payable in dollars.
A derinitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, but the following may be helpful to your
understanding or the Department's position with respeet
to suoh obligations.
The Departmont considers that investment in foreism
bonds is primarily a private transactión into whish the
purchaser enters after calculation of the riaks involved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by or guaras-
teed by governmental entities, it is not the praetice
of the Department to negotiate directly for Ameriean
holders, but it does endeavor to render suoh assistanse
as it properly can to such holders or their representa-
tives. In this connection attention may be called to
a
the Foreign Bondholders Proteetive Council, Incorporated,
90 Broad Street, New York, New York, whioh was organized
several years ago to serve as a central representative
body. Although it was established with the enoouragement
of the Department, the Council acts on its own responsi-
bility. Some time ago, at the request of the Couneil,
the Department transmitted to the United States Politieal
Adviser to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
894.57Bond
at Tokyo, a complete statement regarding the dollar bonds
issued or guaranteed by Japenese governmental entities.
This statement was sent for the information and use of
the Political Adviser and of the appropriate section of
the Staff
C
Miss Gertrude Hers,
The Doll Guild,
124 Myrtlé Avenue,
2
CE
Jersey City 5, New Jerséy.
2
8
か

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.96)
the Staff of the Buyreme Jemmander, and for wesh mstim
as might be considered appropriate in the pretesetiem
that the Gouneil is mindrul of the interests of Amerieen
siom offers, taks suek steps as it eemsiders te be te
the advantage of the holders. You may wish te write te
the Council in connection with tne bonds mentiemed by
you.
It will be appresiated that the Department is mot
in a position to state now what provisions, if any, af-
fecting such obligations, may be contained in the Peace
Treaty with Japan, or what provision for elaims arising
fron tre war may be made. As you doubtless know, there
will be many clains and demands against Japan, and
against Japanese municipalities and persons, of whieh
such obligations as those to whioh you refer will pro-
bably constitute but a amall part.
Nevertheless, ir you are an Americen citizen, the
Department will be glad to make a record, for such
future consideration as may be found to be appropriate,
of your holdings. It is suggested that you submit to
the Department a statement giving tne interest rates
of the bonds, the dates of issue and maturity, the eur-
renoy in whioh payable, the face value, the manner and
date of acquisition of the bonds, the purouase price,
the last payment of interest thereon, and the manner
(whether by birth or naturalization) and date of your
acquisition of American citizenship. If oitizenship
was acquired by naturalization, the name aud location
of the court granting citizenship, and the number of the
relative certiricate should also be given. If it should
later be found advisable for individual holders to take
further steps, due annouucement will be made in the
public press.
Sinoorely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chief,
Division of Financial Affairs
OFDyr
/FN:VWJones:rt
3/9/48
CH
MAR 18 1968

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEPHONEDELAWARE 3-4942-
CES 3/23/47
LEGAL ADVISER
-THE DOLL GUILD
Referred to 7n
MANUFACTURERS OF
DEC 2 3 1947
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
124 MYRTLE AVENUE
JERSEY CITY 5. N. J.
December 18, 1947.
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:-
Attention of Legal Adviser
The undersigned is tho owner of
external loan bonds of the Imperial Japanese
Government and of the City of Yokohama. She
is filing olaims with the Office of Alien
Property Custodian and is advised by the
Director of this office to get in touch with
you.
Please advise the undersigned what
measures have been and will be taken by your
Department to safeguard the interests of
citizens of the United States who are owners
of Japanese bonds. Also, if registration of
claims with your Department is necessary in
order to benefit from any such measures past
or future.
Sincerely yours,
Girtinde Ney
Gertrude Hers.
JUN 12 1951
FILED
ilk FrH Jarm
V DEC2 91947 12/30/47
FN-I.C.Carlin
S
Ansmred 3/9/48
V

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.93)
Aforudt 7N
JAN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
503 Truman Boyd Manor
Long Beach 10, Californa
January 16, 1948
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Legal Adviser
Gentlemen:
It was suggested by the Office of Alion
Property that I write to you regarding our
claim since it appeared to relate to matters
within the jurisdiotion of your Department.
Can you give me any information regard-
ing the status of Tokyo Electric Bonds.
Very truly yours,
imgjird Harad
05
Sumajiro Harada
OIVISION OF FIN
√ JAN 2 6 1948
Anscaud 5'n/45
DEPARTMENT OF STNTE
FN-4.r.alier
DCB-CADBCT
JUN12 1951
FILED

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.93)
LEGAL ADVISER
CESK
COUNTY COURT
Reporadt7n to
IOWA COUNTY
JAN 2 3 1948
DODSEVILLE, WISGONBIN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
?ch
JAMES E. O'NEILL, JUDSE
270
Jan. 16, 1948.
3
Legai/Adviser,
DC/
Department of State,
.washington, D. c.
Dear siry
I am the owner of one $1,Ooo Japanese Government
XR
bond deseribed as Imperial Japanese Governvent External Loan
862.51
of Feoruary 1, 1924, thirty year Sinking Fund Gold Bond due
Bondholdu
Feb. 1, 1954, which, of course has been in default since 1942.
I have filed claim with the Office of Alien Custodian and the
Director suggests that I may wish to communicate with you. Is
there anything further I can properly do to protect ny interest
arising vnder the above claim?
My wife is the owner of one 3l,Ooo Berlin City Electric
Bond, 1so in default. This bond, is I recull, is due in 1956.
1648
Is there nything she should do in respect to such obligation?
Thanking you, I a,
Very truly yours,
FLLED
Janes E. 'O'Neill.
25 1951
DCR - CLAIMS UNIT
DNASION OF FINANÇIAL AFFAIRS
nal. EP
JAN 27 1948
X3
ev.
Ansmered 6/4/48
Cut.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FN-B N.K Gan
List.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.89)
JUN171948
La roply reter to
894.51
ae
dear Judge 0' e111:
Refetense 1s mde to your letter dated Jammary 16, 1948, sekmeslade
BONDHOLDERS/I-
Elestrie bead held by your wife.
A derinitive reply to your iaquiry is net nes pessible, best the
tien with respeet to sush obligatiens.
The Bepartmest ceasiders that iavestmest in fereign bends i
1648
90 Bread Street, Now Ierk, Now Yodk, whick was erges
Department
The Hescrable
F2H
James E. O'Keill,
Judge of the Couaty Gourt,
S
Bedgeville, Wiseeasin.
holdew
11-1648

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.91)
Sisserely yours,
Fer the Secretary of State:
Division et Fimmnsial Affairs
/FH:VRJe:
6/4/48
C
JUN 17 1948PM

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.96)
Banqur Belge pour l’Etranger (Guerseas) Limited,
Affiliated to the Societs Génorale de Bolgique
67 WALL STREET
Head Office
Cable Addrese
LONDON
"SINOBE"
NEW YORK 5. N. Y., Jamuary 21, 1948
CIVIS ON OF
894.51
ONDHOLDERS/F22488
Dear Sirs:
ef.: 0E 894.51 Bondbo1dera/12-947
We acknowledge receipt of your letter of December 29
for contents of which we thank you, and we are accordingly communicat-
ing with the Belglan Diplomatic Representative in Tokyo.
Yours very truly,
BANQUE BELGE POUR L'ETRANGER
(OVERSEAS) LIMITED
NEW YORK AGENCY
MJS/hs
Assistant Manager
Chief Mamger
894.51
DER- CLAIMS UNT
CS/V
FEB-2 1948
FILED

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.91)
DWIGHT L. ROGERS
TN DNTMOT FLERIDA
ROOM 111, HOUSE OPFICE ILDE.
COMMITTEE:
Congress of the Hnited States
INTERSTATE AND FOREISN COMMERCE
SUBCOMMITTEES:
Pouse of Representatibes
FILE REFI
AVIATION
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
51948
IMF
COMMERCE AND TRADE
Washington, D. C.
January 22, 1948
FEB
CES.
LEGAL ADVISER
State Department
DUR
Washington, D. C.
AN 2 3 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
50
894.51 BONDHOLERS/1-2248
20
Gentremen:
Engfosed herewith is a letter which I have received from Dr. Victor
Neesan of Fort Lauderdale, Floride, same being self-explanatory.
2
()
I shll ppreciate very much our going into this matter and ad-
vising me in the premises, along with the return of the enclosure.
Rrm
Thanking you, I am
Sincerely yours,
DLR/c
EB121948
FILED
1/23/48.
8
OK.
94.51 Bondhrla
ONISION OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
End raid
atljul
Replyt letaits Aittnyten
JAN271958/2/45
FN-I.l. larlie
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Vile
VVL
-2248
153.
1.S

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.93)
(e0z)
217 8.8. 10 86.
Fort Lauderdale
Florida
Jaa. 100m
Dear Mr. Rogers:
I own 8 bonds or Tokyo leetrie Lt. (Japes).
Momey to pay interest on these bonds was deposised is
N.Y. Dec. lst 1941. to pay interest due Deo. 15th.
After Pearl Harbor, the Alien Property Custodian eee-
fiseated this money and has held it ever since. Amd
my brokers - Hunt, Hill, & Betts, are unable to ebtais
information as to when it will be released. The Jap.
Govt. who guaranteed these bonds is anxious and willing
to pay all the back interest. Can you find out for me
what is the obstaole standing in the way of these pay-
ments?
I am retired on a fixed income and  badly
in need of this money.
Your constituemt,
Cerdially,
Vietor Neesen, M.D.
(OOPY)

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.94)
51048
FFR
/1-2248
The Seeretary of State ensleses for the infermatiem
22, 1948 from the Honorable Dwight L. Rogers, Represem-
a
BONDHOLDERS/1-2248
tative from Floride, with a sepy or the emelesure share-
to, a letter dated January 18, 1948, direeted te Repre-
sentative Rogers by Dr. Viotor Neesen, Fert Landerdale,
Floride, in connection with the disbursement of funds
held by the Orrise of Alien Property to make paymeats
bonds held by Dr. Neesen.
It would be appreciated if the Orrice er Aliem
Property would take such astion as may be eensidered
appropriate in this matter.
Enclestre:
Copy of letter from
894.51
Representative Rogers
with enslesure.
CSA
Cn
FEB 9 48
Qay
FN:JCCorliss:rt
1/29/48
L-5

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.94)
51948
FEB
reply refer to
894.51 Bondholders/1-2248
My dear Mr. Rogers:
Reference is made to your letter of January 22,
1948, enclosing a letter dated January 18, 194#, frem
Dr. Victor Neesen, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, regarding
the disbursement of cortain funds held by the Orriee er
Alien Property in connection with eight Tokyo Elestrie
Light Company (Japan) bonds held by Dr. Neesen.
This matter is one falling within the jurisdiesiom
of the Orrice of Alien Property under the law, and the
Department has therefore transmitted to that Orfiee a
copy of your letter, with a copy of the enelosure there-
to, with a request that it take appropriate astiom in
the mutter.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Charles E. Bohlen
Counselor
Enclosure,
FLT
Lotter from Dr. Neesen.
The Honorable
Dwight L. Rogers,
House or Representatives.
CR
FEB 8 1948P
CLC
ceer
cnx
25/0
N:JCCorliss:rt
1/29/48
Crimclr

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.82)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AND
DEVELOPMENT PULICY
FEB 1 2 1948
1789
PROH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LOLTC
Dameo Febmmary 5, 1940
ROOD
e. 11,918
8:47 AM
souvetary of soato.
OFNSION OF FINNANCINL AFFIRS
× FEB 
nao
69
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
eferor co
e o mble sirgram A.039.
. l7, sn rere to Japanoso pond oldees.
e ellevar oosl sueatione snd eouwers exehnnged
B
in tooce  Comons mm Pobpumry 3, po4e, ou thas subject:
0
Z
Buelir (oor: ur/avve MP. Sor Twlokarham)
the Sreheouer whether ho will
suppet Aroricen error ss to cos bre service of
Sapanere bonts romurnady and whee infoemetion he has
al out
apeoose phare ror pesurln tho service.
6
m
Bp  Sripe ( aneolles of the Exchoquer): "I
R
JJ
we rof acquaintsu vith the ofeorts to whiclt the hon.
IS
-1948
Hombor rofors, bua tlhu rigate cf tre bondholdere will
bo Lom o in ine in the dlseugsions leading up to the
2
Poace Preaty. As pogards the second part of the
C
儿
taestion. Press reports sussest that the. Japaneso Gov-
54
ornmont is proporly uialcus to posune the service of
R
its extenal debt; bps the balence oi paymel ts position
8
of Japan is such tlmt it Is not likrely to be poasible
in tho near futurs."
M. Kosiing:
"May I thank the Chancellor for this
modirfcation or the unholpful attitudo of his pre-
decos r so Brilish holders of thuse bondd, who, I tope
be wi arreo, ss just as patrlotie und just s
desersuts
rs
B
8
o ho
Fout
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action tak

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.71)
URCLACS E ID
Pase 2.
A-223
Pobrr
01010
ver o thia subjeo.
421.3
or
rt
siderin te
iteiptor i the
t artilars of their
ds.Ts invitation
e to cu her cr porson
sere is could rot
1trtirluntery
utotadin at tihe begin
11lion of
1
llloonsI
coul1 luave beon
ctrpon of roreig
currer   by  etiorals.
GALLAN
C t ll l Ais,  Toky
SPDrA
2/4/48

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.91)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
2786
FROM
FEB1-81948
LOLDOH
1.
D
ACTION-OPD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DATED Fobruary 10, 1948
THFO
DC/R
UNCLASSTFILD
l?ECD. February 17, 1948
A-B
9:03 a.m.
OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AND
A-S
EUR
Secrotary of Stato,
DEVELOPMENT PULIOY
FE
DC/I.
veehir gton
OE
iee
A-349, February 10, 194
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1. lereronce is made to mabassy's airgram A-323,
894.
Feoruary 5, lo48, in regard to Japanese bonds.
. cllowin urticle or this subjoct appeared in
5
the Tubruury 4, la2, edition of Financial Times:
"ahe roply ivon by Sir Stafford Cripps in
BONDHOLDER
rarliaont yesterday to a question on Japanese bonds
snoved a much more cor.clliatory attitude than Ur.
IC
Dalton 's, in is mors exuberant days. That the
L
tritish bondholders bave somo ri nts the Government
now appoars to reco nise. That marks an important
advance. ut cuutior is still essontial in any
2
attempt to asaoss tho outlook.
"Japan, unlilte Italy, has no sterlin balances
to ay intorost arrears. The Japanese authorities,
S/
aguin, have i: tinatou that they are willing to resume
the dobt service, but rot, apparontly, at the old
/2-1048
col. tructuel rates. her. a settlomont is reached, aa
ono day it undcuitodiy will be, tho attitude of the
U.s. will bo the dominatin: factor. If the settlo-
ment peachud oy the C s. with Italy is taken as a
uldo, it cer be casuied that tho torms impoged will
i..t be unfavourablo to Japan. It would be unwise
at tils stege, t erefore, to speoulato on the invest.
ment status of e bords. Phat is a matter which
only tho future and the U.. can decide."
GALLJAM
E
Copy to U.S. Politicul Advisor, SCAp, Tokyo
2
0
sForuaright/wg
8/3/40
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be reture to DO ontra Nes with notation of action taken.

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.95)
241948
In reply refer to
N 894.51 Bondholders
/2-1648
My dear Mr. Graham:
Reference is made to your letter dated February 16.
1948, acknowledged by the Department on February 25,
1948, relative to rive $l000.00 Great Consolidated
Kleetric Power Company dollar bonds whieh you hold.
The Department will make a record of the informatiem
you have submitted regarding your holdángs, but in order
that there may be no misunderstanding as to the signifi-
cance of its ecceptance of this data, there is set forth
a statement relative to the Department's position with
respect to such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreiga
bonds is primarily a private transaction into which the
DERS/2-1648
purohaser enters after celculation of the risks involved.
In case of default on dolla: bonds issued by private
ontities, it is assumed that the holders will be prepared.
if necessery, to avail themselves of the usual methods to
exercise any rights they may possess, whenever and wher-
ever resort to such measures is possible. In case of
default on dollar bonds i:  ued by or guaranteed by goverm-
mental entities, as are the bonda mentioned by you, it is
not the practice of the Department to negotiate direetly
for American holders, but it does endeavor to render sush
assistance as it properly can to such holders or their
representatives.  In this oonnection attention may be
called to the Foreign Bondholders Proteotive Couneil,
Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York, New York, which
was organized several years ago to serve as a central
representative body. Although it was established with
bb
the enoouragement of the Department, the Couneil msts on
its own responsibility. Some time ago, at the request of
the Council, the Department transmitted to the Umited
C
S
States
N
Mr. Douglas Graham,
CR OFD UNIT
100 Prospect Avenue,
2
Hackensack, New
ech
9/
m

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
States Politieal Adviser to the Supreme Commasder fer
the Allied Powers, at Tokyo, a somplete statememt
regarding the dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by
Japanese governmental entities. This statemens was semt
for the information and use of the Politieal Adviser and
of the appropriate section of the Staff of the Supreme
Commander, and for such astion as might be sonsidered
appropriate in the protection of the Amerieam interest
involved. The Department believes that the Coumeil is
mindful of the interests of Amerioan holders of sweh obll-
gations and that it will, when oocasion offers, take susk
steps as it considers to be to the advantage of the
holders. You may wish to write to the Gouneil in eom-
nection with the bonds mentioned by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not
in a position to state now what provisions, ir any.
affecting such obligations, may be eontained in the Pease
Treaty with Japan or what provision for olaims arising
from the war may be made. As you doubtless know, there
will be many claims and demands against Japan, and against
Japanese municipalities and persons, of whieh sueh ebli-
gations as those to whioh you refer will probably eomsti-
tute but a small part.
Mevertheless, as indicated above, the Department
will make a record, for such future consideration es may
be found to be appropriate, of the information submitted
by you with regard to your holdings. It is requested
that you also inform the Department of the maier and
date of your acquisition of these bonds, the purehase
price, the last payment of intereat thereon, and the man-
ner (whether by birth or naturalisation) and date of your
aequisition of American citizenship. If citizenship was
acquired by naturalization, the name and location of the
court granting citizenship,and the number of the relative
certiricate should also be given. Ir it should later be
fouad advisable for individual holders to take further
steps, due announcement will be made in the publio press.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Cn
24
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chia
Bivision of Financial Affairs
2209
FN:VWones:RT
5-20-48

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.84)
100 Proskect aveLE
10
Itacknsack Km
DLPT. C
Feb161948
DeF
Aubartment of State
BONDHOL
NL ADVISER
212
Segal adviser
Weashinglon DC.
819 1948
SSS
Bran din
An Mov. 3nt 1947 I filed a
clain with the Alien Properly tirecto
for fi0e (5) #1.000.00 bouds of the2
svaat lonsolidaled Ilectric Sower
1648
Cormpany of Japan wilte sonton
hava tuan Called August 194er
I received a ptstae noo 7-1947
15
"fornal receft to follow.
Rceder
receipt up to thes times
JUN 12 1951
FILED
OF FINCONL AFFINRS
DCR - CLAIMB UNIT
Anala
ack F Nolarm
FEB2119982/25/48
Rev. 18V
Anemend s/so/r8
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
F1T-V.20. gonee

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.84)
89H.51BondHolders/3-24/8
0u0
Fliton,
8
Onlario,
The Lames C Corliss,
An'd A ont to Oftara
 MAR 2 5 1948
Canada
5/1/48-FN-U.W.Quale
Assictant Chief,
march, 2/48
DEPARMENT OF STATE
B
Diresing Firangual Offairs,
OND
CN
Defartment of State.
8
-2
工
Wachitgton
48
OL
U. 8.a.
Dear br Corling
0
E
In reply your recent letter894.
12-942
atisen all ch dtins reguured can be sa factorl
15 met, escepters the one of cetipen whifs. Isntom hoed
that Imayhae reid claim,thatr, ate al
S
1
工
Pleace inform me about thes.
3-2
Yours Ituly, Keith n. meadwan.

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.96)
Fereign Bendholders Preteetive Gewmeil, Ins.
Minety Bread Street, Now York 4
Mareh 5, 1948
Dear Mr. Livesey:
The purpose of this letter is to bring before the
Department some of the comments of the Couneil in regaure
The letter is intended to supplement and put in mere ee-
finite form many questions whioh I have diseussed with yeu
in our oustomary periodical conferenees with the Departmsnt
over foreign bond problems.
I attach herewith a memorandum witch gives the best
judgment the Council hes been able to assemble with the
aseistance of the Department and the fisoal agents on the
prinoipal statistioal points on the Japanese governmental
debt outstanding in dollars. There are fourteen issues 
dollar bonds mublicly iscued, on all of whioh the Imperial
Japanese Government is ltable either as prinoipal obiiger
or as guarantor. The aggregate amount of principal out-
standing outside of Japan anpears to total now only about
$68,000,000. You w111 note about 20,000,000 prine1pal 1s t
direct debt of the Imnerlal Covernment. About 6,000,000
is equally divided between the cities of Tokyo snd Yokaheme.
The remaining indebtedness conciats of the bonds of Japamose
power and development cornorations, sll of which corporate
bonde were guaranteed by the national government origimally
or by later action before the outbreak of the war. The
of whioh the largost 1tems are about 20,000,000 1ssued y
the Tokyo Electrlc L1ght Company and about fil,O0o,C0o by
the Orientel Development Corporation. The contrectual ammel
interest service on the whole Japanese dollar dabt is only
about $4,Ooc,000 a year. The bonds, of course, have been
in default as respects al! servicc since Pearl Harbor, or
more than six years. The bonds represent a relatively mall
fraction of a large indebtedness floated in the United states
betwoen 1924 and 1931, for nenrly s1x-sevenths of the original
total has been retired or exehanged by Japanese holders for
internal Japanese ohligationa.
The Debt is a small 1item in the sconomy of Japan either
as respects its domeatic budget or the burden on its foreigm
exchange. The service of foreign governmental debt is seldom
as
Frederiok Livesey. Esq.
Advisor. Orrice of Financlal and Development Poliey
182 Old State Department Building
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.96)
-8
an impertant finanolal element in the seememy of a
and, in the case of Japan, the burden is even less
usual.
In addition to the dollar debt, Japan has eutstandime
national bond? although there are some small issues of eity
and corporate bonds similar to our own.
Turning to the queation of polloy as respeots the mamst-
ment of this indebtednens, the following points ahould be
notod:
Firet, there is a well developed feeling both in the
United States and in Great Britain that Japan is eapame f
meeting the debt in full both as reepects the adjustment 
arreare end the future performance or the contract rates and
obligations. There are two emall dollar ismues outstanding
on which the prinoipal came due durine the war. There are
several other irsues on whioh some adjustment of maturity
would be neceseary in view of the events of the war and the
period of poet-war recover, but the Council is in aseerd
with the sentiment in financial ciroles, which we think is
general in hoth thie country and Britain, that Japam should
perform her obligations in full and that the dispesitiem ef
the Japaneee tovernment itself will be to oarry out its
obilgationa, if parmitted. Japan before the war was meties-
lous in attention to her foreign indebtedness and, as the
record show, has by one means or another retired the reat
builk of it even before the obligations matured.
Whatever may be the eoonomic restrietions laid upen
Japan under the policy adopter by the viotorious governments,
she must in any case be permitted considereble international
commerce, if only to afford life to her population. The
payment of her debts would not only be a relatively small
burden on this considerahle commerce but probably would esm-
tribute to its healthy development within sound limits, while
the failure to meet her obligations in full, even if breught
about by polioy forced upon her, would almost eertaimly
impede her commercial future. We hope there ore that the
American Government and the State Department, as the agemey
entrusted especially with these policles, will find it
pessible to so frame the treaties of pease and the future
eeonomio limitations placed upon Japan in suoh a way as to
permit the payment of the debt.
secend,

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.96)
Secend, the svents whieh have eeeurred sinee the
upen Pearl Harbor have complieated the meshinery ef
requires considerations of finanoial peliey and
tion measures.
Without attempting to do nore than suggest these
prebbèms, we point out that the debts of the Imperial devess-
ment, of the cities of Tokyo and Yokohama, and the Taimam
Electrio issues were all serviced by the Yokohama Speeie
Bank's New York agenoy which is now liguidated,and there is
not even a nominal representative for the administratiom of
the interest or retirement funds on this lerge part of the
Jananese debt. The funds in New York held by the Yokohamm
Specim Benk anxd rinelly taken over by the Alien Property
ment of the Counoil were fiduciary funds held by that bank for
the benefit of bondholders. The Alien Property Custodim
made a ruling contrary to this view whicn was protested y
spokesmen or the bondlolders, but the legal remedies fer the
have not so far been preesed. It would seem to un that im
any legisletion dealing with the Japanese aasets seized
recognition or the strong equitable position, if indeed it is
not a legal right or the holders of Japanese bonds to thego
suws wloh had been remitued from Japan for the service u
the various issues.
Anotlier element of oonfusion in the situatlon is that
the oilanges made by Allied ocoupation polioy in the orgamise-
tion of the Japanese financial and industrial system have
resulted in several liguidations of Japanese fintncial
Institutions, notably the Mityaui Bank, the effeot of which
has been to rsplace the trusteee who under the contracts
were aet up to enforce the security obligations of the Japamese
corporate lssues. Most of ths gueranteed norporate issmes, s
you will notice, had trustees in the form of Japanese banking
institutions. There are no Amerioan trustees provided altho
the corporate issues, as distinguished from the natiomal 
city issues, had in most ceses Awerioen fincal agents whose
duties were restricted to the operation of interest payments
and uinking fund redemptlons.
Another complication in the situstion arises from the fast
that the Japanese Covernment, if we understand the fasts eer
reetly, proceeded during the war to convert bonds of the
thereafter "assuming" the obligation of paying prinoipeml 
interest, and arbitrarily canceling various mortgages and other
pledges of seourity om properties of the obligor corporatiems.
eration of the Department and have been brought to the Bepart

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.97)
reinstated. The proper protection of the Amerleem be
holders in connection with these weilateral breaehes of
contracts is a part of the general problem.
The sterling indebtedness of Japan has been an mstive
topio in London, and our Council has received a mmber af
communications from the Counoil of Foreign Bondholders is
London oalling attention to the official and unofrioial
attitudes and activities in Britain. The matter has beem
publioly discuased in Parllament. Correspondence and mumer
out 1tems in the British press which we have received indieats
that Britain is moving with considerable determination in m
endeavor to see that the Japanese sterling publio debt is
sorvioed in full.
The Council hes been in accord with the ldea that it is
wiee in the case of post-war readjustment to make a compre-
hensive settlement, not only or tho indebtedness and oblige-
tlons between the victor and tns defeated governments, bt
aleo of the respective claims of nationals. The polioy 
making an over-all compreleneive settlenent was followed in
poning a settlement until later and also that the prineipal
terms or settlement involven were adequate and wise. There
has been puulic criticism, nowever, of the final rate of
interest establianed in the adjustment and of the differemtial
treatnent accorded British and American bondholders as 
consequence of the dirfering polioles of the British and
Amerioan Governments as respects certain olauses in the treaties
of peaoe.
The cniticism has been aimed in Britain and the Unitel
States not only at the two Counolls but at the two governments.
We in the American Counoll are quite willing to face publle
oriticism when wo feel, as we do in this oase, that we asted
wisely in oehalf of the Amerioan bondholders. This sort of
development, however, on the one hand, hampers somewhat the
freedom to carry out aven the wisest national polioy and, om
the other hand, in our judgment, oan be anticipated and
avoided by some consultation and consideration at an early/stage.
It is nearly always possible to arrive at a polioy regardimg
of our national interests in such great questions as sesurity
and trade and still gives recognitlon to the points of view
of

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.97)
sompmity whese opinions to some degree affest the
to explere and understand shese peints ef view, as it 
if it is to handle its duties suscesafully. I think if
these sould be discussed at an early stage in the feamdlast
of a post-war settlement in the case of Japan, the whele
problem could be met with the hope of general approvak. 
on the future of Japan, whatever may be the plans of eur
Government, as to embarrass either rehabilitation er limé-
tations on the domestic or foreign eoonomy of the Japamesm
nation.
The American Government has been active in preparing the
way for international investment in the future. The great
impediment is after all the history of the past. The leams
te Japan have never been considered examples of reekless er
irresponsible lending, and it might be prasticable in the
course of their adjustment to offset in part the impressism
made by other settlements which today diseourage the
Ameriean investore
Respeetfully,
(signed)
James Grafton Rogers,
James Grafton Rogers,
President,
Enclosure

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.96)
g80ome
Total Amt.
Int.
Issued
Matures
Amount Issued
Outstanding
National (2)
at
Imp. Japanese Govt.
6-1/2% Feb. 1, 1924 Febr 1, 1954
.G.
Imp. Japanese Govt.
5-1/2% May 1, 1930 May 1, 1965
71,000,000
58,740,000
Municipal (2)
and
Tokjo
5-1/2% Apr. 1, 1927 Apr. 1, 1961
20,640.000 c 12,438,000
Co.
2
Yokohama
6%
Dec. 1, 1926 Dec. 1, 1961
19,740,000 c 12,464,000
J
Fran8.
Corp. Gtd. (10)
bq
Gt. Consolidated
7%
Aug. 1, 1924 Aug. 1, 1944
15,000,000 a 2,397,000
f t nce
8
Gt. Consolidated
6-1/2% July 1, 1925 July 1, 1950
13,500,000 a 2,337,000
Gen.
Nippon Elect. Pwr.
6-1/2% Jan. 2, 1928 Jan. 1, 1953
9,000,000 a 4,952,000
Oriental Development
6%
Mar.15, 1923 Mar.15, 1953
19,900,000 c 10,366,000
ape
Oriental Development
5-1/2% Nov. 1, 1928 Nov. 1, 1958
19,900,000 c 11,057,000
Shinyetsu El. Pwr.
6-1/2% Dec. 1, 1927 Dec. 1, 1952
7,650,000 b 4,194,000
Taiwan El. Pwr.
5-1/2% July 1, 1931 July 1, 1971
22,800,000c 19,573,000
Toho El. Pwr
7%
Mar.15, 1925 Mar.15, 1955
15,000,000 a
712,000
012
Tokyo El. Lt.
6%
June15, 1928 June15, 1953
70,000,000 a 47,393,000
8
Ujigawa El. Pwr
7%
Mar.15, 1925 Mar.15, 1945
14,000,000 a 2,859,500
14 Issues
Grand Totals
$468,130,000 283,397,200
As reported by Fiscal Agents at about Dec. 1, 1941.
Assumed by Japanese Elect. Generaltion & Transmission Co. and the I.J.G. beginning
Apr11 1, 1939.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
+
proximate
Annual
tal Amt.
Interest Com-
tstanding
puted on Amts.
side Japan
in Previous Column
Fiscal Agent
Trustee
1,615,300 ≠
754,994
none
none
9,482,000 ≠
521,510
none
none
3,068,000
168,740
none
none
3,250,000 ≠
195,000
none
none
1,346,000
94,220
Dillon Read
Industrial Br. of Japan
754,500
48,543
Dillon Read
Industrial Bk. of Japan
1,132,000
75,580
Harris Trust
Teikoku
7,608,000 ≠
456,480
National City
none
3,997,500
219,863
National City
none
1,257,000
81,705
Dillon Read
formerly Mitsui Bk.
3,745,000≠
205,975
none
none
582,500
40,775
Guranty Trust
Teikoku
9,103,000
1,146,180
Guaranty Trust
Teikoku
864,000
60.480
National City
Industrial BK. of Japan
,804,800
$4,068,045
Formerly Mitsul Bank
Gov't sources report $94,068,400
Except as to national issues, reportel
$12,495,000
to be "assumed" by Japanese Govtt as
$10,520,000
from Sept. 15, 1945 under Lw
$19,584,000
≠
Figures takem from infermati
Formerly Yokehas

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.95)
EN
L. E. Colgrove
Real Estate
Insurance
Property Management
Mortgages
DOR
March 8, 1948
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/3-848
RECEIVED
73
DEPT. OF STAFE
Legal Adviser
Department of State
DC/R
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
As the result of probation of the
Estate of Philip T. Colgrove at Hastings, Mich-
igan, late in l947, I find myself in possession
of two bonds of the Imperial Japanese Government.
I was the sole beneficiary of this Estate, being
the only remaining child, which was set up
February 10, 1930.
The said bonds are No.M-74186 and
No.M-74l87 Imperial Japanese Government External
Loan of 1924 and in the amount of $1000.00 each,
30 year sinking fund 6t% Gold Bond; due February
1, 1954.
Will you please advise me whether or
not these bonds have any value. Interest coupons
are attached, No.36 February 1942 including
No.60 February 1954 in the amount of $32.50 each.
Under date of March 4, 1948 the Office
of Alien Property advised de to communicate
CS/
with you for information relative to the possible
DIVISION OF FINACONL AFFAI9S
value of these bonds.
894.511
CAne 5/4/48
Yours very truly,
MAR 1 6 1948
L.E. Cobgee
= N. U.W. Jance
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BONDHOLDE
DCR - CLAIMS UNIT
LEC:W
()
3
Cat.
8
139 West Maple-Avenue
Phone Birmingham 460
-ilichigall—

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.96)
MAY141948
In reply refer to
N 894.51 Bondholders
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/:3-848
/3-848
My dear Mr. Colgrove:
Reference is made to your letter of Mareh 8, 1948,
relative to certain Imperial Japanese Government 6-1/2%
dollar bonds which you inherited. You inquire as to the
value of these bonds.
At the request of the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission, no transactions in Japanese bonds
have been mace by brokers or dealers since December l94l.
The Department is therefore unable to inform you as to
how you might ascertain the present value of these bonds.
A definitive statement regarding the future of these
bonds is not now possible, but the following may be holp-
ful to your understanding or the Department s positiom
with respect to such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaetion into which the
purohaser enters after caleulation or the risks involved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by or guaranteed
by governmental entities, it is not the praetice of the
Department to negotiate directly for American holders, but
it does endeavor to render such assistance as it properly
can to suoh holders or their represontatives. In this
connection attention may be called to the Foreign Bond-
holders Protective Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street,
New York, New York, which was organized several years ago
to serve as a cential representative body. Although it
was established with the ancouragement of the Department,
the Council acts on its own responsibility. Some time ago,
at the request or the Counoil, the Department transmitted
9
to the United States Political Adviser to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokyo, & complete
statement regarding the dollar bonds issued or guaranteed
C
yS
3
FD Uni
Mr. L. E. Colgrove,
139 West Maple Avenue,
Birmingham, Miehigan.

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.97)
by Japanese goveramental entities. This statement was
sent for the information and use or the Politieal
Adviser and of the appropriate seetion of the Starf ef
the Supreme Commander, and for suoh metion as might be
considered appropriate in the proteotion of the Amerieam
interest involved. The Department believes that the
Council is mindful of the interests of merieam holders
of such obligations and that it will, when eseasien
offers, take such steps as it eonsiders to be to the
advantage of the holders. You may wish to write te the
Council in connection with the bonds mentioned by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not
in a position to state now what provisions, if any.
affecting such obligations, may be contained in the Peese
Treaty with Japan, or what prevision for claims arising
from the war may be made. As you doubtless know, there
will be many claims and demands against Japan, and
against Japanese municipalities and persons, of which
such obligations as those to whioh you refer will pro-
bably constitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department is glad to make a
record, for possible future use, of the holdings by
American citizens of such bonds. In addition to the data
contained in your letter or Mareh 8, 1948, you should
also furnish to the Department a statement giving the
manner (whether by birth or naturalization) and date of
acquisition of American citizenship by you. If citizem-
ship was acquired by naturalization, the name and looa-
tion of the court granting citizenship should also be
given. Ir it should later be found advisable for indivi-
dual holders to take further steps, due announcement will
be made in the publio press.
Sincorely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
OFD
209
FN:VWJones:rt
5/4/48

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.96)
In reply refer to
MAY
049
N 894.51 Bondholders
/3-948
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/3-948
My dear Mr. Padolino:
Reference is made to your letter dated Mareh 9,
1948, relative to $2000.00 worth of Imperial Japanese
Government 6-1/2% bonds whioh you own.
At the request of the United States Seourities
and Exohange Commission, no transactions in Japanese
bonds have been made by brokers or dealers since Deeem-
ber l941. The Department is therefore unable to suggest
possible disposition of your holdings at the present
time.
A definitive statement regarding the future of
these bonds is not now possible, but the following may
be helpful to your understanding or the Department's
position with respect to such obligetions.
The Department considers that investment in foreigm
bonds is primarily a private transaction into whish the
purchaser enters after calculation of the risks involved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by or guaram-
teed by governmental entities, it is not the praotice of
the Department to negotiate directly for Amerioan holders,
but it does endeavor to render such assistance as it pro-
perly can to such holders or their representatives. In
this connection attention may be called to the Foreim
Bondholders Protective Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad
C
Street, New York, New York, which was organized several
S
years ago to serve as a central representative body.
Although it was estsblished with the eneouragement of
the Department, the Counoil acts on its own responsibility.
Some time ago, at the request of the Counoil, the Depart- 
ment transmitted to the United States Political Adviser
to the
Mr. Joseph Padolino,
DCP
CH
127 Brookwood Street,
Rolders
East Orange, New Jersey.
LeX
Di9!

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tekye.
a complete statement regarding the dollar bonds issued
or guaranteed by Japanese governmental entities. This
statement was sent for the information and use of the
Political Adviser and or the appropriate seetion of the
Stefr of the Supreme Commander, and for such sstiom as
might be considered appropriate in the proteetiom of the
American interest involved. The Department believes that
the Council is mindrul of the interests of meriean
holders of such obligations and that it will, when oeea-
sion offers, take such steps as it considers to be to the
advantage of the holders. You may wish to write to the
Council in conneotion with the bonds mentioned by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not
in a position to state now what provisions, if any.
affecting such obligations, may be contained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provision for elaims
arising from the war may be made. As you doubtless
know, there will be many claims cnd demands against Japam,
and ageinst Japanese municipalities and persons, of whieh
such obligations as those to which you refer will pro-
bably constitute but a amall part.
Nevertheless, the Department will make a record,
for possible future use, of the information you have
submitted regaraing your holding. Ir it should later
be round adviaable for individual holders to take fur-
ther steps, due announcement will be made in the publie
press.
Meanwhile, your attention is called to the faot that
the Office of Alien Property is entertaining debt elaims
of American citizens against certain Japanese assets
vested by that Orrice. American holders of bonds of
Japanese debtors may wish to file olaims thereon with
the Orfice of Alien Property, Department of Justice,
Washington, D. C., which will inform claimants whether
any assets or partioular debtors have been vested.
Detaila relative to the matter may be obtained from the
Office of Alien Property or from any United States
attorney.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
le
James C. Goriiss, Assistent @nier
Division or Financial Armixs
OFD
FN:VWJones:rt
4/30/48

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.93)
DCB: Room 467
URGENT
LELEGALPADVISER
NAR 1 1 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Signed

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.86)
Retam
FN.WOS
71948
127 BroskmdeLt
MAY
manh 90 1948
FN
Legal Adviser.
State Sepst
Washingtom De.
788
66
44
Dear Sii:
5
I the year 1924 I have
B
Goverment Bouds. "Gold Booi
口
62%0Uas an Internal Lras.
30 1ear Sinking Fund. Due in 194.
I will appreciate it vary mish
if you will slease give me some astice
on infoimation in regards to my Bs
It/ means so much to me, as it t
I am 96 yeas ald, retired, end yit
Is there any way Iean redeem'!
my Sondo on at least get my Intrest
Due me on Coupons from these Bouds
357.503
MAR 161968
FN-U.cC. JaneeD

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.93)
Riceed
Cable AddresäMoodestcor"
MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE
Gorry
65Broadway
MopDr's Ivssroas S
Boston
NewYork 6, N.Y.
Chicago
Los Angeles
Philadelphia
12,1948
r. Richard D. ei: 1, Executive Ufricer,
Office of bar Eastern ffairs
U. . Denartment of State
New state Dullin, . 15
Vashington, D. C. (5)
beer mr. vei-l:
e are enclesin. excerpts on Jaren from our
letest edition of mooay's Government  Municipel manual, in the hope
that you ney be able to rorwaru it to the annro riate authorities,
DERS/3-1248
merican or Je anose, in Jopen with  vie: toware bringinr up to date
the inrormaticn cont ined therein. In vie of the fect that there is
"idespread investment interest in the collur bonos of Japan (even though
traning therein is "rrozen" r'r tn: ti e oeing), it seems to us that
the publication of s much ioan, finuncial, inaustry und trade data as
esible is in the vest interest of mer car investors as well as of
Jean.
we re crticulerly interested in bringing
up to date informetion ts to the resent mumber of loans outstanding,
Particularly the internal ones, s "ell uas on the nation's over-all
debt position, the sne e oi its buoret eno tne extent of such foreign
trade as may nave been curried out in 1947.
1i sucn urencies as may be interested in
the publication of such statistical uatu desire the insertion of sub-
jects not resently covereu, ve shell be lad to blige upon their
recuest. In conclusion, "e visn to state tnat vhatever information
is aduressed to us should reach us not later than bugust 15, 1948.
ne thank vou in aovance for your assistance
P
FILED
in connection vith the above.
-51948
894.51 Rond
Very truly yours,
MOULINVESTOIE DERVICE
hitor-in-Chief
Anal
Paw
889.
J. S. Porter
Encl.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.96)
MAR 311048
In reply refer to
A
Moody's Investors Service,
65 Broadway,
New York 6, New York.
F
Sirs:
The receipt is acknowledged of Mr. J. S. Porter's
letter of March 12, 1948, together with the excerpts
894.51
on Japan from the latest edition of Moody's Government
& Municipal Manual which he requested be forwarded to
the appropriate authorities in Japan for the purpose
of bringing up to dato the information contained therein.
The excerpts are being forwarded to the Acting
United States Politioel Adviser for Japan, suggesting
that arrangements be pmade for their revision.
Bind
Very truly yours,
Executive Officer
Office of Far Enstern Affeirs
-1248
M
NAzHLory:mp
3-29-48

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.95)
JUL 91948
M
894.51
Moody's Investors Service,
65 Broadway,
New York 6, New York.
Sirs:
Bond.
With reference to your letter of Mareh 12, 19s8,
addressed to Nr. Richard D. Weigle, Exesutive Orrieer,
Office of Far Eastern Affairs, and his reply ef Marsh
31, l948, a commun1cation has new been received frem
the Acting United States Political Adviser fer Japan
stating that according to ourrent Army regulations
requests for imformation such as yours should be sub-
Coldere
mitted to the Givil Affairs Divisiom, Department of
the Army, Washington 25, D.0. It is believed that the
divil Affairs Division will be able to supply you
readily with the necessary informmtion for bringing up
to date the passages that pertain to Japam in Heody's
Government and Mumicipal Mamval.
It is regretted that there has been this delay im
referring you to the appropriate Geverament agenoy.
Very truly yours,
Segined
-1248
Johm M. Allison
Chief, Division of
Northeast Asian Affairs
mal
NA:HLory:lt
FEH
7-9-48

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.91)
MAR 311948
89
7.
BONDHOLDERS/3-1248
The Besretary of State encloses excerpts on Japan from
the latest edition of Noody's Goverament and Munieinal
Manual and a copy of a letter from Moody's Investors
Service, 65 Broadway, New York 6, New York, requesting
that these exeerpts be forwarded to the appropriate
authorities in Japan for the purpose of bringing up to
date the information contained therein, and that the mew
1nformation reach them net later than August 15, 1948.
If the Aeting Politieal Adviser pereeives no objeetion
it is suggested that the enelosed excerpts be revised
in accordanee with the request of Moody's Iavesters
Serviee.
Emelesure:
194s, from Needy'& Iavesters
CS/V
89457
Service, and enclesures
NA:HLory/pm
copy. of
du
3/29/48
orgi-
BC FL
Ch
49

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.92)
MAY27194
UNCLASSIFIED
no. //0
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/3-2148
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Ottawa.
The Secretary of State refers to the Department's
1nstruction No. 58 of Mareh 17, 1948 and eneleses a sepy
of a letter dated Maroh 21, 1948, from Mr. Keith M.
MacEwan, Flinton, Ontario, Canada, relative to certain
Japanese Government dollar bonds which he holds. There
is also enolosed the Department's reply to Mr. Mas Ewam's
letter. It would be appresiated ir this reply eould be
transmitted to the inquirer, unless the Embassy pereeives
objection thereto.
Enclosure:
l.Copy of letter from
S
6
Mr. Mackwan;
/2.Department's reply
hereto.
MAY 18 1948 PM
498
894.51 Bondholders/3-248
F
OE
FN:VWJones:rt 5/7/48
has
Ch
MAY 28 1948 P.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
A.27
In reply refer to
N 894.51 Bondholders/
3-248
894.51BONDHOLDERS/3-2148
My dear Mr. Mac Ewan:
Reference is made to your letter of Mareh 21, 1948,
relative to your holdings or certain Imperial Japanese
Government dollar bonds.
Recommendations made by the Foreign Bondholders
Protective Counoil, Incorporated, desoribed in the
Department's letter of Maroh 17, 1948, apply to all
defaulted dollar bonds isaued or guaranteed by a foreign
governmental entity, regardless or the citizenship of the
holder.
With regard to the position of this Department, it
should be pointed out that the Department oan, of course,
represent only the interests of citizens of the United
States. Citizens of other oountries should communieate
with their respective governments in order to have their
individual interests safeguarded in the negotiations for
the Peace Treaty with Japan.
The Department did not mean to imply in its letter
to you of Maroh 17, 1948 that repayment of the defaulted
Japanese government bonds is in process. As indieated
in its letter, the Department is unable to state at the
present time what the future status of these bonds may
be.
686
CS/A
Sincerely yours,
13
For the Secretary of State:
1
3
40
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chief
Division of Finanoial Affairs
Mr. Keith M. MacEwan,
Flinton,
Ontario, Canada.
FN:VWJones:rt
5/7/48
OE

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.91)
910 W. Oregon St.
Mr. James C. Corliss
Division of Financial Affairs
C
U. S. Department of State
Ans 4/20/48
Washington, D. C.
1.0 61948
FN. A.C.VO Jer
Reference to
FN 894.51 Bondholders
PRTMENI  STATE
Dear Sir:
/11-2847
Thank you for your letter of March 17th regarding
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/3-3048
my holding of a 7 Ujigawa Electric Power Co., Limited,
dollar bond, concerning which I had written on November
28th 1947.
In accordance with your request, I am herewith
furnishing the additional information called for:
Bond Acquired July 1947 in the settlement of the
estate of my sister, Dorothy M. Brown, deceased.
Face value: $500.00.
Last payment of interest: September 1941.
(Maturity date: March 15, 1945)
American citizenship: by birth, Feb. 26, la03.
FILED
may be able to render, I am,
12 1951
Yours very truly,
Gortande B. Workeceg
Gertrude B. Working (Mrs. E. J.)
3
 ω
sc
OFD DEH
A1
luediy

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.94)
八
APR 231948
In reply refer to
IN S94.51 Bendholders
/3/3048
My dear Mrs. Working:
w
Reference is made to your letter of Mareh 30, 1948.
submitting eertain information relative to your holding:
8
of a 7% Ujigawa Elestrie Power Company, Limited, dellar
bond.
This information will be plased in the Department's
resords with the other data submitted by you im your
letter of November 28, 1947, for sush use as may be foumd
to be appropriate, as indicated in the Department's letter
to you of Maroh 17, 1948.
Sineerely yours,
For the Aeting Seeretary of State:
James 0. Corliss, Aesistant Chier
Division of Finansial Afrairs
/Mrs. B. J. Working,
6
AP
910 West Oregom Street,
Urbana, Illinois.
FN:VWJones:rt
4/20/48

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.94)
W. D. BACk, M. D.
METROPOLITAN BUILDING
GRAND AND OLIVE
D9
SAINT LOUIS
April 1,1948
Honorable John W. Snyder,
Seoretary of the Treasury,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Snyder:-
I have two Japanese Bonds ( 1 Tokto and 1 Yokohama), whioh I purohased many years
ago and which Bonds were guaranteed hy the Japanese Government, and now sinoe the war
have not paid any interest. I would like to know, through your Department, just what
is your opinion of their ever paying the principal? I know for the present it will be
almost impossihle but thought that you would know more ahout it and would give me better
information then I could get anywhere else. I rememher, during the war, when we were !?
fighting Japan, the Government asked me to give them the numhers and general outline of 
these Bonds, I suppose for filing away for future reference,and I have not heard anything
since.
I rememher you were the gentleman who was appointed receiver, several years ago, in.
the '29 crash, when the Grand Avenue Bank was put out of husiness and you made a very
good joh in distrihuting the asseta, in a satisfactory manner. I was a Depositor in
the Bank for many years, in fact, I am right aoross the Street in the Metropolitan Buildiss.
Hoping you will find time to send me a reply in regards the ahove mentioned Bonds,
I remain.
FLH
Sincerely.
21Black
DB:MB
S
C..
JUN12 1951
FILED
894.51 Bono
4

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.94)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON 25
DC/
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE
APR 13 1948
Aomeevered 4/7/03
.PR 1 41948
FN..
DEPERRMENT OF STETE
Dear Mr. Doherty:
FW
There is transmitted herewith for your con-
sideration and reply a letter addressed to the
78
Secretary of the Treasury from Dr. W. D. Black,
Metropolitan Building, Grant and Olive Streets,
St. Louis, Missouri. Dr. Black has written re-
questing information on the possibility of interest
being paid on two Japanese Bonds he owns.
A copy of our acknowledgment is enclosed.
hole/4148
Very truly yours,
Jonhnloithay
Frank A. Southard, Jr.
Director, Office of Intemational Finance
Mr. E. W. Doherty
Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
Room 1l0, Old State Building
Department of State
FLIt
Washington 25, D. C.
Enclosures

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.89)
APR 13 1998
Dear Dr. Blask:
kafarense is made to your latter of April 
1948, addressed to the Seeretary of the Treeswsys
semserming the payment ef iscerest on tre dapmese
Bomde whioh you oum.
Your letter nes been referred to the Divisien
of Finaacial Af aire, Department of State, metiagtem
D. Co for attention.
Very truly yours,
(Signed) Frank A. Southard, Jr.
Frank A. Southard, Jn
Director, ffise of Intemstienal Pimsmse
Dr. W. D. Blask
Hetrepelitan Builging
Grend and live streets
Saint Lonis, Mimoburi
B1/9/48

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.94)
Ia reply refer to
894.51
My dear Dr. Mask:
I have by reference fros the Treasary Department yeur Letter
dated April 1, 194s, aeknonledged by this Department en April 15,
1948, relative to a City of Tokye bond and a City of Takakana
BONDHOLDEF
bend whick you hold. It is asswmed that you refer to the dallar
bonds issued by these cities.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is met new pessihle, bat
the fellowing may be helpfal to your waderatanding of the Depart-
mext's position with respect to such obligatios.
The Depertment considers that investeent in fereigh bende is
ERS/4-148
after caloulation of the risks invelved. In ease of defealt em
Ameriean holders, but it does endeavor to render susk assistamee
as it preperly can to sech holders or their representatives. Is
this conneotion attentiem may be salled to the Foraign Beadhelders
Protestive Cowneil, Inesrporated, 90 Broed Stroet, Eow Terk, New
York, which was erganised several years ago to serve as a central
representative body. Although it was established with the emeourege-
ment of the Department, the Couneil acts em its eme reepemsibility.
trammitted to the Uaited States Political Adviser to the Saprame
Commender for the Allied Powers, at Tekye, a ecaplete statemest
regarding the dollar bends issued or guaranteed by Japanese govern-
mental entities. This statemest was sent for the inforsaties and
CSA
use of the Politieal Adviser and of the appropriate sectien of the
Staff of the Supreme Cosmander, and for sach astiem as might be
sonsidered appropriate in the protection of the Amerieam interest
the interests of kmeriean holders of such ebligatieme and that is
e
will, when eseasion offers, take such steps as it sonsiders to be
to
2H
Dr. W. D. Black,
Metrepelitan Bailding,
Grand and live Streets,
Saint Louis, Missouri.

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.91)
-2-
to the advastage of the helders. Iea may miak to mrite to the
Gonsil in comnsstien with the bende mentioned by youe
suck obligations as those to which you refer will prebakly eomsti-
tute but a mall part.
will make a resord, for suck future consideratiom as may be fomed
to your holdings. In additiom to the data comtained in your letter
of April 1, 194s, you should also inform the Departmeat of the
interest rate of the bonds, the dates of issue and maturity, the
face valwe, the manner and date of aog isition of the beade, the
purehase priee, and the manner (whether by birth er naturalisstiem)
and date of your acguisition of lmerican citisenship. If eltises-
ship wae acquired by naturalisation, the mme and lesatien as the
court granting citisenship, md the mmber of the relative earti-
ficate should also be given. If it should later be femed advis-
able for individual holders to take further stepe, dee amemmse-
meat will be made in the publie press.
Meanmkile, your attentien is ealled to the fest that the
Offiee of Alion Preperty is entertaining debt alaime of Amsrieem
citisens against certain Japanese assets vested by that offise.
Amerieas holders of bends of Japamese debtors may wisk te file
Justice, Washington, D.C., whieh will iafora elainaste whether any
to the matter may be obtained fron the Offiee of Aliem Property er
from any United States attormey.
Sincerely youre,
For the Seeretary of State:
7.0
Cr
Jamee C. Cerlise
JUN 16 1948 PM.
Assistant Ckief
Divisien ef Pinsmsial Affaire
FN:VWJonds:ms
6/7/48

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.89)
N171948
/10-2367
894.51
p
My dear Nr. Webster:
The reseipt is asknowledged of yeur latter dated
April 2, l948, submitting eertain informatien relative
BONDHOLDERS/4-248
to eartain 5% Gity of Tokye sterling bemds whiek yeu
bold.
As indieated in its letter of Naroh 24, 196s, to
you have submitted regarding your holdings, for sesk
future consideration as my be found to be apprepriate.
Mimoerely yours,
Fer the Beeretary of State:
James 0. Gorliss
Assistant Chief
Division of Finansial Affairs
A
FLH
10
Mr. Norman E. Webster,
f
so Broadway,
New York 4, New York.
JUN 16 1948RM.
w
6/11/48

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.96)
WEBSTER, HORNE & ELSDON
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
NEW YORK
HARTFORD
6/1145
NORMAN E.WEBSTER
HENAY A. HORNE
PAUL H. ELSDON
50 BROADWAY
NEW YORK 4.N.Y,
MAURICE L. BLANCHARD
WALLACE W.WILLARD
April 2nd,1948
Mr. James C. Corliss
Division of Financial Affairs
Department of State
p
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Corliss:
Ref: F N 894.51 Bondho1ders/10-2347
I thank you for your letter of March 24th
re my holdings of B l0oǒ City of Tokyo 5% Sterling Bonds,
Issue of 1912,
Here is the information you requested:
1 - I acquired the Bonds, March 17, 1924 for $3,082.50 by purchase
from Paine Webber & Co., 25 Broad Street, New York 4, N.Y.
2 - I acquired American Citizenship, March 26, 1869 by birth, at
Decatur, Van Buren County, Michigan and have resided only in
Michigan, District of Columbia and New York.
3 - I do not expect better treatment than British holders of
these Bonds.
4 - I shall not at present write to the Corporation of Soreign
Bondholders, 6/7 King William Street, London, East Tehter 4,
894.51 Bond
England unless you advise me to do so since I assum that
my interests will be taken care of by you and that
influence with it is greater than mine.
CS/A
Very truly yours,
Nonmna & Wron
Norman E. Webster
50 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y.
MH
DCR
NEW:ab

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.94)
APR 7 48
DEPI. OF
DC/
3795 Downing St.,
Jacksonville 5, Fla.,
Apr. 5, 1948.
Refer your: FN 834.51 Bondroldera
/2-647
Uome 4/20/48
F.PR 9 1948
FN-8.2W. lame
The Department of State,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:-
Attention: Mr. James C. Corliss,
Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affarrs
Your letter of yar. 17th in reply to my letter of Sept.
6th, 1347, rece1ved.
Referring to tre final paragragh of vour letter I am
submitting tre following information as suggested:
I hold p5,poo. fotal face value of tre Gold Debentures
of the oriental Development Co., Ltd(guaranteed princ'pal and in-
terest by tre Japanese Imperial Government).
Interest rate - 67
Date of 1ssue - MAR. 15, 1923
Dato of Maturity - Mar. 15, 1953
Manner of acquisition - by purchase through broker on
N. Y. Stock Exchange.
Face value
Date of Acquisition
Purchase Price
$1,000.
Nov. 11, 1930
$922.50
1,000.
$1,000.
11
894.51 Boudkolders
$1,000.
Nov. 9, 1931.
$718.00
$1,000.
Nov. 7, 1938.
593.00
Last payment of interest - Sept. 15, 1941.
As regarda citizensnip, I am an American born of Ameri-
can parents(date, of birth, June 13, 189o).
JUN121951
FILED
CS/V
Very truly yours,
13.1
Rash B. F
Anal.
Ralph B. Everett.
4548
Cut.
Dist.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.95)
n
APR 231948
Xa reply refer to
74-548
My dear Mr. Everett:
Referenee is made to your letter dated April 5,
1948, submitting eertain information relative te your
holdings of Oriental Development Compamy, Limited,
dollar bonds.
This information will be placed in the Department's
reeords with the other material submitted by yeu im your
letter of September 6, 1947 in comneetien with your
holdings, for sueh eonsideration as may be found to be
appropriate, as indieated in the Department's letter to
you of Mareh 17, 1948.
Sincerely yours,
For the Lsting Sesretary ef State:
力
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chief
Divisigx er Fimansial Affairs
r. Ralph B. Everett,
2795 Doming Street,
Jasksonville, 5, Florida.
FN:VWJo1es:rt 4/20/48

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.94)
p
APR 71948
18-3067
894.51
My'dear Mrs. Port:
Referenee 1s made to your letter of Angast 30, 1947.
addressed to the Ofrice of Alien Property, and to the
BONDHOLDERS/4-74
your Oriental Development Company boads. The Departmeat
regrets that the reply to your letter has been se lens
delayed.
The Department will be glad, if you are an Ameriean
eitizen, to make a record or your holdings, for mmeh
future consideration as may be found eppropriate. In
order that there may be mo misunderstanding regarding the
signirieanee of this prosedure, however, the felloming.
poliey in connection with sueh obligations.
The Department considers that investment in fereiga
bends is primerily a private traasestion inte whioh the
48
purchaser enters after ealeulation of the risks invelved.
In ease of default on doller bonds issued by private exsi-
ties, it is assumed that the holders will be prepered, if
exereise any rights they may possess, whenever and where-
ever resort to such measures is pessible. In ease ef
default on dollar bonds issued by or guaranteed by severn-
mental entities, it is not the practise of the Department
to negotiate direstly for Ameriean holders, but it dees
endeavor to render such assistanee as it properiy san te
sush holders or their representatives. In this eonmestion
attention may be ealled to the Poreiss Bondholders Pro-
New York, whioh was organized several years ago te s erve
lished with the eneouragement of the Department, the
Goumeil
Mrs. Emmy Lou Port,
h
513 Werth Chureh street
nal
Warburton, Wiseonsin.

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.95)
.7
-2-
Gouneil acts e its mm respensibility. Some time age
mitted to the Uaited States Politisal Adviser to the
Supreme Commander fer the Allied Powers, at Tekye, ?
somplete statement regarding the dollar beads issued er
guaranteed by Japanese goveramental emtities. This
statement was sent for the imfermetion and wse of the
Politieal Adviser and of the appropriate ssstien ef the
Staff of the Supreme Commander, and for sush astiem as
might be considered appropriate in the pretestiem er the
Ameriean interest involved. The Departmeat believes that
the Couneil is mindful of the interests of Amerieam
holders of such obligations and that it will, mhen esee-
siom offers, take sueh stpps as it eonsiders to be to the
advantage of the holders.i You may wish to write to the
Couneil in conneetion with the bonds held by you.
It will be appreciated that the Departmeat is met
in a position to state mow what provisions, if any,
affesting sueh obligations, may be contained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provision for elaims
arising from the war may be mede. As you doubtleas knew.
there will be many claims and demands agaimst Japam, and
against Japanese manicipalities and persons, of whieh
such obligations aa those to which you refer will pre-
bebly constitute but a mmall part.
Neverthekess, as indieated above, the Department will
be glad to make a record or your heldings for possible
future use. It is suggested that you furnish to the
Department a statement indieating the date and manmer
(whether by birth or naturalization) or your aequisition
of American citizenship, and if citizenship was mequired
by maturalization, ths name and lecation of the eourt
cranting citizenship, and the number of the relative
eertiricate.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
James G. Corliss, Assistamt Chier
Division of Fimancial Affairs
Fsecorliss:gwe/rt
4/2/48
OFDI
CK
APX21946

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.94)
In reply refer to
MAY271948
804.81 Bondholders
/4-148
Marris Trust and Savings Bank,
115 West Monroe Street,
BONDHOLDERS/4-748
Chicago 90, Illinois.
sire:
Reference 1s made to your letter of April 7. 1948,
referring to a previous letter of November 7. 1947, re-
garding 6 1/2% bonds of the Mippon leotrio Power Compamy.
Limited. It is regretted that the reply to your letters
has been so long delayed.
Some time ago, at the request of the Foreigm Bond-
holders Counoil, Incorporated, the Department transmitted
to the Reparations and Restitution Delegation, at Tokye,
a letter from the Council, requesting that the mortgage
liens formerly seouring the bonds of this issue be reim-
stated. In forwarding the Counoil's letter, the Depart-
ment requested the Delegation to express its views con-
cerning the advisability of reinstating the mortgages. Ne
reply has yet been received, but when one reaohes the
Department, it will be sent immediately to the Counoil.
You may wish, therefore, to write to the Counoil at
90 Broad treet, New York, New York, and ask that you be
informed when it receives a reply to its letter.
CS/A
Very truly yours,
894.51
For the Beoretary of State:
Ch
DCR - OFD Unit
MAY 28 1948
James C. Corliss
ina!
A
Divialon of Financial Affairs
FN:JoCerllos?gwe
5/24/48
S/S-CR

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.94)
HARRIS TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK
ORGANIZED AS N. W. H
CO. 1BB2. INCORPORATED 1907
115 WEST MONROE STREET
TRUGT DEPARTMENT
CHICAGO 9O, ILLINOIS
DC/
RECEIVED
Prevcion
AR9
April 7, 1948
DEPT
DO/R
The Honorable,
200.51
11-747
le
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/4-748
The Secretary of State
Washington
OE
11/14
D. C.
FN
Dear Sir:
Re:
Nippon Electric Power Company, Ltd.,
First Mortgage 6 1/2 Gold Bonds, due 1953
On November 7, 1947 we addressed a letter
to you with regard to bonds of the issue described
above for which this bank acts as Authenticating
Agent, Paying Agent and Sinking Fund Agent. No
reply has been received and we enclose for your
information a copy of the letter above referred to.
Within the last few weeks information has
reached us that the Japanese Governnent has indicated
its willingness to reinstate mortgage liens which
were cancelled by governnental action subsequent to
the guarantee by the Japanese Government of the
principal and interest on the bonds secured by those
liens. We are advised, however, that the Japanese
Government is willing to do so only if our Govern-
ment requests such action. We again request that
you give this matter your careful consideration,
taking such steps as in the light of the informatSon
FIL
available to you are calculated to serve the best
interest of the United States holaers of the Nippon
Flectric Power Company, Ltd. bonds.
1305
S
005/24148
Yours very truly,
894.51BONDHOLDER
Jomann
A1
FN. eareio
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Assistant Vice President
F. O. Mann
MJT
DCR - CLAIMS UNIT
Rev.
SR

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.98)
HARRIS TRUST AND SAVINGS
GHGANIZED AS N. W. HARIG B CO. IOSS. INGORPORAT
CHICAGO
COPY
November 7, 1947
The Honorable,
The Seeretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
Re: Nippon Eleotrio Power Company, Ltd.,
Firet Mortaage 6 1/as Gold Bonde, due 1953
We refer to previous correspondence whioh we have
had with you, in partiouler your letter dated February 26,
1947, with respeot to our aotivities as Paying Agent, Bink-
ing Fund Agent and Authentioeting Agent of the Mippon Eleetrie
Power Company, Ltd. Virat Wortgage 6 1/2% Gold Bonds €ue 1953.
In oonformity with the suggestion contained in your
letter under reference, we communicated with Japan and we
have now received a report concerning the status of this issue
from the Successor Trustee under the Indenture seouring the
Bonds and from the Successor Obligor. This report diseloses
thet sinoe the outbreek of war witn Japan, aotion has been
taken in violetion of the terms of the Indenture whieh is
seriously prejudicial to the interests of bondholders. The
purpose of this letter is to advise you of these oeeurrences
and of other aspeots of the prosent status of this issue and
to request that you tako such action es may be appropriate
to proteot the interests of the bondhclders. Although under
the Indenture seouring the bonds, this bank is not oharged
with the duties of a Trustee for the bondholders, such dutiss
havins been imposed solely upon the originel Trustee there-
under, The Witsui Bank, Limited, or its lawful suecessor, we
ere addressing ourselves to you sinoe, the Trustee bekng e
Japanese institution, there is no corporate trustee in the
United States to represent the interests of the bondholdere.
It is our primary purpose et this time that nothing should
be done whioh might be deemed to constitute aoquiescense on
the part or in behalr of any holders of bonds of this issue
in the violations of the Indenture whion have oecurred. Sinee
the corporate trustee of tais issue is a Japanese institution,
it is possible that through foree of cirounstenoe or otherwise,
it has been unable to disoharge its obligations to the bond-
holders under the Indenture.
The bonds were issued in l928 under en Indenture
between Nippon Electrio Power Compeny, Ltd. and The Mitsui
Bank Limited as Trustee and were secured by e first mortgage
lien on important publio utility properties located in Japan.

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.97)
Nevember , 1947
The Seerotary of StasCHICAGO
COPY
The prineipal emount of bonds originally 1ssued was $9,000,000
of whieh $h,952,000 was outstanding as or Ootober 15, 1941. A
substantiel part of the property subjeet to the liem of the Im-
denture was transferred by Nippon Elestrie Power Compamy, Ltd.,
to Japan Eleetric Power Generation end Transmissiom Compamy.
Ltd. in 1939 and 194l. These transfers were effeeted pursuamt
to an eleetrio power control law promulgated in Japan as of
April 6, l93s for the purpose of facilitating control of the
power industry by the national government. In exehange for iss
properties, Nippon Eleetrio Power Company, Ltd. reeeived shares
of stoek or Japan Electrio Generation and Transmission Company.
Ltd. In conneetion with the transfers, the Imperial Japamese
Government and Japan Electric Power Generation and Trensmissiom
Compeny, Ltd:, uneonditionally guaranteed the bonds as to
principel and interest. The properties transferred continued
to be security for the outstanding bonds and subjeot to the
lien of the Indenture. (We understand from the report referred
to below thet the remaining eleotrio properties of Nippon Eleetrie
Power Company, Ltd., were trenaferred, es of April 1, 1942, to
Chubu Eleetric Supply Compeny, Ltd., The Kansai Eleetrio Supply
Company, Ltd. and The Hokuriku Eloctrio Supply Company, Ltd.)
Pursuant to en Order of the Minister of Communications dated
August 2, 194l, a Supplemental Indenture was exeeuted as of
Ootober 1, 194i between Nippon Electrie Power Company, Ltd.,
Japan Electrio Power Goneration and Transmission Company, Lid.,
and The Mitsui Bank, Ltd. Under this Supplemental Indenture,
Japan Eleotrio Power Generation and Tranamission Company, Ltd.
succeeded to the interests and obligations of Nippon Eleotrie
Power Company, Ltd., under the original Indenture dated
January 2, l928, 1noluding the obligation with respeet to the
payment of prinoipsl and interest on the bonds.
The service of the bonds was effeoted regularly until
1942. Default with respect to interest peyment commenoed
January 1, 1942 and with respeot to the sinking fund on Ootober
15, 1942. The bank had no oommunicetion with Japan unt11 the
rooeipt of letters dated on August 14, 1947 and September 3,
1947 from The Teikoku Bank, Ltd., es Suocessor Trustee, with
whien were enclosed the letters from Japen Electrie Power
Generetion end Transmission Company, Ltd. and other papers,
certain of whioh ere enolosed herewith for your reoords as
listed at the end of thie letter. These letters report upon
developments during the war period whioh may be summarized as
follows:
(a) As or April 1, 1943, The Teikoku Bank, Ltd.
succeeded The Mitsui Bank, Ltd. as Trustee
under the Indenture dated January 2, 1928.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.96)
TRUST AND
AS N. . H.
CHICAGO
Besrelary of state CoPy -
(b) The bonds were "sonverted" late Yen Bemés
under Law No. 60 of Mareh 15, 1943 relasing
to the Treatmeat or Foreign Bends, whien
provided for the eonversion imse bonds pay-
able in Japanese curreney of outssendims
dollar and sterling bonds issued by the
Imperial Japanese Govermment or any sub-
division thereor and private corperatioms.
The Nippon Bleetrie 6 1/2% Gold Bonds were
treated as follows:
$1,968,000 prino1pal amount which had
been reaoquired by the Company were
cancelled on June 26, 1943;
$1,844,000 principal amount of Bonds
whioh were held in Japan were exehanged
on Soptember 15, 1943 for new Yen Bonds
of Japan Electrio Power Generation and
Transmission Company, Ltd., which were
guaranteed :by the Japanese Govermment,
bore 1nterest at the rate of 4.2 per
annum and hed a l2-year maturity;
$1,140,000 principal amount of Bonds
whioh were held outside of Japan were
"assumed" by the Japanese Government
in September, 1943, under terms similar
to the terms or the new Yen Bonds issued
in exchange for the Bonds held in Japan.
(Apparently, elthough we have not been
so advised by the Trustee, an additional
$8,000 prinoipel amount of Bonds have been
peid by tne Government sinoe 1943 so that
the amount now outstending and held out-
side of Japan would be changed to $1,132,000.)
After this "oonversion" and "assumption", the
mortgage securing the Bonds under the Indenture
dated January 2, l928 was caneelled 1n the
appropriate commereial registry in Japan.
(o) During the war, interest on all or pert of the
bonds was paid into speoial blooked aceounts in
Japan.

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.95)
TRUST AND A
EED AS N. W. HARRIS e GO. .
CHICAGO
The Remerable,
COPY
The Beeretary of Ssate
November . 1941
have csearred the following prineipal defaults under she Im-
demturel (1) Failure to comply with interest and simking
fund obligations for a period in excess of five year: (2)
the umilateral act of the Japenese Govermmens in substitusing
ments with respest to service in Japenese eurreney; and (3)
the purported "caneellation" of the mortgage subsequent to
the so-called "conversion" operation. You ere hereby ad-
vised that we do not recognise as valid suoh estions on she
pert of the Japanese Government and we aecordingly reguest
that the Department of State do everything whieh may be
appropriate to cause the bondholders to be restored te the
onjoyment or their rights under the Indenture. In persieuler,
we request that this problem be considered in eomneesion wish
the negotiation of a treaty of peace with Jepan and that
appropriate provision be inoluded therein for the proteetiom
of the rights of the nolders of Bonde of the issue in question.
Wo are sending a copy or this letter to the Foreign
Bondholders Proteotive Couneil, Ino.
Vory truly yours,
rom
Assistent Vioe President
F. O. Mann
MJT
Enclosures
Copy of letter dated August 14, 1947, from The Teikoku
Bank, Ltd. to barris Trust and Savings Bank, together
with the following enolosuress
Extract of Order of Finance Minister with respect to
appointment of The Teikoku Bank, Lon.
Law relating to the treatment of foreign bonds promul-
gated Maroh 15, 1943 (English translation).
Letter dated September 27, 1946, from Japan Eleetrie
Power Generation and Transmission Power Compeny, Ltd.
to Harris Trust and Savings Bank.
Letter dated September 3, 1947 from The Teikoku Bank,
Ltd. to Harris Trust and Savings Bank and enolosure
thereto, namely, letter dated kugust 27, 1947 from
Japan Eiectrio Power Generation and Trensmission Power
Company, Ltd. to Harris Trust and Savings Benk,
exelusive of enelosures.

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.96)
MOT FILE
1005
RETURE TO FE
STNATIONALBANK
OF ELGIN
MARTIN SEYBOLD.
OTTO PARLASCA.
E. W. SCHOLER.
VICE PRESIDEN
ELGIN,ILL.
WILLIAM E. REDEKER.
CARLTON C. HOTH.
YNER.
ASST TRUST OFFICE
DEPT. OF STATE
DO/R
FNdam ack r/ho/48
A.PP 1 3 1948
Department of State,
United States of America,
FN-020.Gaxee
Washington, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Sirs:
At the suggestion of the Office of Alien Property, Depart-
ment of Judtice, Washington 25, D. C., we are writing to you with
reference to the following listed bond which is owned by The First
National Bank of Elgin, Elgin, Illinois, as Executor of the Estate
of James W. Lynch, Deceased, who died March 6, 1948, at Elgin,
Kane County, Illinois, a citizen of the United States.
Taiwan Electric Power Company, Limited, $1000.00 Forty Year Sinking
Fund 52% Gold Bond, due July 1, 1971, No. 21299, with January 1,
1942 and subsequent coupons attached.
We have filed with the Office of Alien Property, two
forms of their Form APC-lC, being under Vesting Order No. 1095,
Their
and in accordance with their letter of March 26, 1948.
reference is JS-RCM-cbc - 034-65.
Kindly advise if any forms should be filed through
your department or the collection or payment of this bond.
Yours very truly,
CS/A
894.51 BON OHOLDER
Vice President.
W.
MAY2
ELED
DCR - CLAIMS INIT
la
Anal.
1951
4-1048
Hev.
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.89)
894.51
1708
In reply refer to
7 094.51 Bendhelders/4-1048
My dear Mr. Wilkening:
BONDHOLDERS/4-
Leferease is made to your letter dated April 10, 1948,
020
The Department will make a record, fer sesk future eem-
ite asseptance of this date, there is set forth the pesitlen
of the Department relative to sesh ebligatiemse
The Department considers thst iavestment in fereign beade
is primarily a private trm sestiem inte whiak the perekeser
4
theasel ves of the usual metheds to exareise amy righte thay may
possible. In case of default e dellar bends isssed by or guaran-
teed by govermental entities, as is the bend meatiesed by you,
for Ameriean helders, but it dees endeaver te reader sesk
assistanee as it properly can to suek holders er their represeate-
tives. In this cemneetiem attentiem may be called to the Farsige
8
Bondholders Pretestive Couneil, Incorperated, 90 Broed Street,
New York, New York, whick was orgamised several years ago to
b
CS/V
omm responsibility. Some time age, at the request of thm Gommeil,
the
F214
Mr. A. J. Wilksning,
4
Vise President,
The Firat Mational Bank of Elgkn,
Elgia, Dllineis.

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
It will be appresiated that the Departaent is met is a pesitien
to state mow mhat provisioms, if my, affeeting seeh ebligations,
resard of the infernatien samitted by yeu relative to tads halding
press.
sineerely yours,
For the Sesretary of State:
CF
61948 P.M.
7w0
✓FN:VWJoDe8:m8
6/8/48

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.92)
250
UNITED
FOR JAPAN
MAY1419
No. 250
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CONFILENTIAL
1948
FOR DOPIITEENTIS USE ONLY
agay
8/20/4
Jubject:
: Reguired lcononic Reporting.
Prpept.
RECEIVED
工
18
T HONORL
DIVISION OF OCCUPIED ARAS
ECONSMIC AFFAIRS
STATE
JUN181940
894.5
AHTN.
5
C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Cie
 I have the honor to refer to he Department's instruction
No: 51 of Farch 31, 19/8 regurdin he revision of that section
BONDHOLDERS/4-2848
of Moody's Government and Municipal anual dealing with Japan,
and in that connection, to coment, upon the preparation by this
Mission of economic reports reguested by the Popartments of
Commeree, Acriculture, and others, throuch the Department of
State.
In addi'ion to lhe love-mentioned request submitted by
Moody's Investors service, this Yission hes been instructed thus
far to cemply with the Department o" Agriculture's annual report-
ing schedule, and to submit. reports concerning crude drugs and
essential oils, rubber products, detergents, newsprint, tea,
civil aviation, br el and ourisy, ihe motion picture and plas-
tiss industries, as wel: s to complel, Jureau of the fint
Interrogatoriee end Pureeu of Fines Questionnaires. This Mission
in turn has endeavored to secure information from the appropriate
staff sectiens of this Headquarters, for example, the Economic
and Scientific, Natural Resources, and Civil Information and
Education Sectiens. Althougt. cert in information has been received
thus far in connection with the several requested reports, referred
tc above, this Headquarters, in response to our request for infor-
mation needed to effeet  revision of those portions of Moody's
Government and Municipal  anual dealing with Janan, has commented
as follows:
"Heturned without astion in view of Staff Memorandum
No. 4, (SJAP & FEC), 'Distribution of SCAP Reports' dated
322)
2 Jen 47 and paragraph 2 of ar Department letter of trans-
68
mittal of 'Information Management Group, Packground and
Functions,' AGA0-34ól (10 Kar 47) wDs0A dated 11 Mar 47
which states:
teu kTh
"IIt is the
FD UNIT
CONFIDENPIAL
3-1228
4-2848
File

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 250,
April 28, 1948.
-2-
"'It is the understanding of the War Department that
all requests originating in the United States addressed to
Commander-in-Chief, Far East, Commanding General, United
States Army Forces in Korea, or your headquarters for Civil
Affairs/Military Government reports will be referred for
action to the Civil Affairs Division."
There is enclosed a copy of Staff Memorandum No. 4, referred
to above, which indicates that all requests for routine or special
reports made directly to a staff section by organizations outside
this theater, will be referred to the Department of Army (Civil
Affairs Division) in Washington for appropriate action. It
appears that this Headquarters will, in the future, refer to Staff
Memorandum No. 4 with respect to any request emanating from this
Mission for statistical and other infcrmation needed to prepare
agricultural and commodity type reports. Since this Headquarters
has declined to supply information needed to complete reports
initiated by Jepartments of the Covernment which have not been
transmitted through prescribed Department of Army channels, the
assistance of the Department is requested in resolving this matter
in conjunction with the Jepartment of Army and other interested
Government Departments.
740.00 119 Contiol
On the other hand, apart fron the problem of availability of
Mission (as the Diplomatic Section) endeavor to prepare econo ic
exceeds its functions as defined by General Headquarters and indi
cated in this Mission's despatch No. 310 of March 15, 1946
entitled "Reorganization of Office of the United States Political
Adviser as Staff Section, SCAP," and this Mission's secret des-
patch No. 353 of April 5, 1946 regarding General MacArthur's views
on the same subject.
This Mission has made, and plans to continue making, analyses
and confidential reports regarding current economic matters of a
policy nature which come to its attention. Such reporting does
not involve the problem of securing extensive statistical data
concerning certain crops or commodities, a part of which, at
least, may best be obtained from the Economic and Scientific and
Natural Resources Sections. Information with which to prepare
such analyses is usually obtained through informal channels, quite
often with some difficulty, is not "cleared" with the relevant
section, and for that reason is classified and marked "For Use
of the Department Only."
In addition, no difficulty has been encountered in securing
information on a personal basis, with which to prepare replies to
trade letters and specific requests for certain crop or commodity
information forwarded to this Mission by the Department and
American firms. In this connection, the Economic Liaison Division
of this Mission (which consists of two Foreign Service Officers)
is endeavoring to establish and maintain personal contact with
American
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 250,
April 28, 1948.
-3-
American and Japanese businessmen, and the ministries qf the
Japanese Government concerned vith economic matters. An effort
is being made to accumulate commodity information independently
of other staff sections of this Headquarters. However, in view
of the almost complete control exercised over Japan's post-war
economy by certain staff sections of this Headquarters, much
current information is obtainable only from those sections.
In regard to the preparation of required agricultural and
commodity type reports, Ceneral Headquarters apparently has no
objection to their preparation and dissemination and has indicated
that it will prepare, or assist in the preparation of such
reports, in so far as it is possible to do so, provided the
request is made through Department of the Army channels. It
should also be pointed out that the staff sections concerned with
economic matters have personnel numbering over a thousand, includ-
ing commodity specialists, who are, it is believed, prepared to
furnish information concerning their respective commodities.
However, unless a request for extensive or detailed information
is formally directed to the individuals or divisions concerned,
it has been our experience that the request receives scant atten-
tion and is given no precedence over routine matters.
Under the circumstances, this Mission has concluded that,
without the assignment of a staff of sufficient size to permit
completely independent preparation of required economic reports,
better results might be obtained by having the Department of the
Army request this Headquarters tc prepare such reports in accord-
ance with stipulated timetables. The viewsof the Department are
therefore requested regarding the course of action to be followed
in preparing economic reports in compliance with the Department's
instructions.
Respectfully yours,
L.v.Beaee
W. J. Sebald
Copy, Staff Memorandum No. 4,
General Headquarters, Supreme
5-648
Commander for the Allied Powers,
January 2, 1948.
72H
Original and ozalid to the Department.
850
DMBane/DMM/cjl
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure to Despatch No. 250,
dated April 28, 1948 from the
Office of the Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject,
"Required Economic Reporting".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AND
FAR EAST COMMAND
AG 461 (2 Jan 47)(AG-0S)
APO 500
2 January 1947
STAFF MEMORANDUM)
(SOAP & FEC)
LISTRIBUTIH OF SCAP REPORTS
1. All requests for the Monthly Sunmation of Non-Military
Activities for Japan, Korea and the Ryu'gus and for routine or
special reports, made by individuals or organizotions outside
this theater direct to headquarters, to a staff section, or to
any individual within a section of General Headquarters, will be
processed in accordance with the following procedure:
a. Requests addressed to headquarters or to a staff
section will be forvarjed to the war Department, through channels
for consideration.
b. Requests received by inlividuals will be answered by
the individuals concerned advising eacn inquirer that the report is
furnished to the War Department which makes distribution outside
this theater.
2. All requests for the Montnly Summation for Japan, Korea
and the Ryukyus and for routine or special reports, made by individ-
uals or organizations vithin tnis theater direct to headquarters,
a staff section or to any individual within a section, will be for-
warded to Statistical ani Reports Section for necessary action.
BY COMMAND OF GENERAL MaCARTHUR:
PAUL J. MUELLER,
OFFICIAL:
Major General,General Staff Corps,
Chief of Staff.
JOHN B. COOLEY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.
CONFIDENTIAL
A tr c
of the
cl
orign

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.95)
948
In reply refer to
FN 894.51 Bondholders
/4-2247
My dear Mr. Leonard:
Examination of the file of correspondence with
you relative to the holdings of Japanese dollar bomés
894.51 BONDHOLDERS.
does not indicate that a detailed reply has ever beem
made to your original inquiry of April 22, 1947, a1-
though certain information relative to the filing of
20
olaims against assets of former Japanese ownership now
vested by the Office of Alien Property was transmitted
/5-548
to you with the Department's letter of May 22, 1947.
It is regretted that the promised reply has been so
long delayed.
A definitive statement regarding the future of
thene bonds is not now possible, but the following
may be helpful to your understanding of the Depart-
ment's policy with respect to suoh obligations.
In general, the Department considers that invest-
ment in foreign bonds is primarily a private transaction
into which the purchaser voluntarily enters after oalou-
lation of the risks involved. In case of default on dol-
lar bonds issued by a foreign government, it is not the
practice of the Department to negotiate direotly for
Amer1can holders, but it does endeavor to render such
assiatance as it appropriately can to them or their
representatives. In this conneotion your attention
may be oalled to the Foreign Bondholders Protective
894.511
Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York, New
York, whioh was established several years ago to serve
as a central representative body. The Counoil was
organized with the encouragement of the Department, but
1t acts on its own responsibility. It is understood
that the Counoil is now intereating itself in such
obligations as those mentioned by you and you may wish
to write
548
Mr. Clarence S. Leonard,
OFE UaN
S
39 Capitol Street,
1.9
Auburn, New York.
V
7no

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
to weite to 1s in eonneetion vith these bends. Some
ment transmitted to the Maited states Politienl Advisser
to the Supreme Commamter for the Alliet Powers, at
issned er guaranteed by Japanese goveramental entisien.
This statenent was ment for the informatiem and mee of
of the Staff of the Supreme Gommander, and fer seck
action as might be deemed spprepriate in the pretestion
of the Amerieam interest involved.
It will be appresiated that the Department cannot
state at the present time what provisions, if any, may
be inserted in the pease treaty regarding such sbligs-
tions. You are doubtless aware that there will be
many claims and demands against the Japamese Geverament
and against persons and mumicipalities in that soumtry.
of whioh such bonds as those referred to by you will
probably constitute only a small part.
Nowever, the Department will be glad to make a
record in its files, for sueh consideration as may be
found appropriate, of the iaformatiom you have furmiskel
regarding your holdings. If it should later be fownd
advisable for individual American holders to take aay
further steps in conneotiom with such obligatiens the
Department will endeavor to have due publicity givem to
the faot.
Binoerely yours,
For the keting Becretary of State:
Jamen 0. Corliss
Assistant Ohief
Division of Financial Affairs
CR
MAY 5 1948 P.M.
√FN:fcorliss:e
4/21/48
S/S-CR

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.94)
2023
3
tu
AY 201948
894.51
In reply refer to
F1 004.61 Bondholders
18-868
BONDHOLDERS/5-548
My dear Mr. Sbervin:
Reference 1s made to your letter of May 5. 1948,
inquiring whether this goverament will remove the re-
strietions on trading in Japanese bonds, and whether
commereial trading with the Japanese is permitted:
The United States Becurities and Exchange Commis-
slon, after eonsultation witc the Departments of State
and Treasury, prehibited trading in Japaness securities
on the organiseed stoek exonaiges immedlately after the
entry of the United States in the war, and requested
the cooperation of licensed traders in refraising from
faeilitating the establiahment of a publie market in
these sesurities in the United States. The Gommicsiem
has not modified the position taken at that time and
the Department knows or no contemplated actiom that
would permit trading in the near future.
Commereial trading with Japam is permitted under
sertain conditions which have been established relative
to the matter. Full informatiom regarding these eondi-
tions may be obtained from the New York Regiomal Offiss
of the United States Department of Commeroe, Empire
State Building, New York, New York.
Sincerely yours,
894.51
For the Seeretary of State:
CS/V
G
James C. Cdrliss
Assistant Chief
548
luekers
Mr. A. N. w.
123 West stth Street.
Now Yerk. Now Yárk.
/FN:JCCorliss:gwe
5/13/48 OFD
OE
S/S-CR

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.83)
A. H. Sherwin Investment Co.
R21080
6
MAY
123 West 57th Stret
DEPT. OF STATE
DC/R
ke Deparlecedt of. State.
1
BONDHOLDERSY
isT1!
boalkington DC.
Bear. Ser Can Bon
Grliicic me Whether the Gorenn
5
18
Jopeauser. fondo. aud are
JaI mreferel
t zous befartimant thromgh the
CS/V
Peap 3oni
OIVISTION OF FINANCIAL AFFURS
FILED
DCR - CLAIMS UNIT
111948
F
∴nol.
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
5/13/48
Y
nev.
Con. 
gne

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.97)
MAY71948
In reply refer to
VN 894.51 Bondholders
/9-647
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/5-748
My dear Mr. Paull:
Reference is made to your letter of September 6.
1947, and to the Department's meknowledgment of Septem-
ber 19, 1947, relative to two 7 Ujigawe Eleetrie Pewer
Company, Limited, due in 1945 whieh you hold. It is
regretted that the reply to your letter has beem se lemg
delayed.
At the request of the United States Sesurities and
Exchange Commission, no transaotions in Japanese bonds
have been mede by brokers or dealers sinee Deeember l94l.
The Department is therefore unable to suggest pessible
disposition or your holdings at the present time.
A definitive statement regarding the future of
these bonds is not now possible, but the followins may
be helpful to your understanding or the Department's
position with respect to sueh obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreige
bonds is primarily a private transaction into whieh the
purehaser enters after calculation of the risks invelved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by private
entities, it is assumed that the holders will be prepared,
if necessary, to avail themselves of the usual metheds to
exeroise any rights they may possess, whenever and where-
ver resort to such measures is possible. In ease of
defeult on dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by govern-
mental entities, as are the bonds held by you, it is not
the praotice of the Department to negotiate directly for
Amerioan holders, but it does endeavor to render sush
assistance as it properly can to such holders or their
representatives. In this connection, attention may be
called to the Foreign Bondholders Proteetive Coumsil,
C
was organized
Mr. Kdwin J. Paull,
Ax
9 Wost Thomas Road,
Phoenix, Arizona.

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
7
was ergasized seterel years asd to serve as a eestrel
representative body. Although it was establisked with
the encouragement or the Department, the Geumeil mets
on its ewn respemsibility. Some time ago, at the
request of the Couneil, the Department transmitted to
the United States Politieal Adviser to the Bupreme
Gemmander for the Allied Powers, at Tokye, a complete
statement regarding the dollar bonds issued or guaranteed
by Japanese governmental entities. This statement was
sent for the information and use or the Politieal
Adviser and of the appropriate seetion or the Starr of
the Supreme Commander, and for such actiom as might be
considered appropriate in the protestion of the Ameriean
interest involved. The Department believes that the
Couneil is mindful of the interests of Ameriean holders
of such obligations and that it will, when oscasion
offers, take suoh steps as it considers to be to the
advantage of the holders. You may wish to write to the
Council in connection with the bonds held by you.
It will be apprdoiated that the Department is not
in a position to state now what provisions, ir any.
affecting such obligations, may be contained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provisions for claims
arising from the war will be made. As you doubtless
know, there will be many claims and demands against
Japan, and against Japanese munioipalities and persons,
of which such obligations as those to whieh you refer
will probably constitute but a small part.
Mevertheless, if you are an American sitizen, the
Department will be glad to make a record or your hold-
ings for possible future use. In addition to the infor-
mation given in your letter of September 6, 1947, it is
suggested thet you furnish to the Department a statement
giving the manner and date of your moquisition of these
bonds, the purchase price, the face value, the last pay-
ment or interest therecn, and the manner, (whether by
birth or naturalization) and date or your aequisition
of American oitizenship. If citizenship was aequired
by naturalization, you should give the name and location
of the court granting eitizenship, and the number of the
relative

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.87)
-3-
relative cartirieste. Is it sheald be fend mávisakle
fer individmal helders to take further stege
annonneemeat will be made in the publle yres
Simoerely yours,
Fer the Seeretary of Stater
le
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chief
Division of Finaneial Arfairs
T
1
CR
OFDN
4/28/48

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.84)
7N.894-51 Bondholders
ap
"BUEN RETIRO"
14-2247-
STAR ROUTE
may 25 /45-
MARY ESTHER
FLORIDA
OWRSION OF FRANGINAL GEENRS
FW
No reply neceesary
Kydear in. Corisio:
File
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
94
mucle in nom lelter f may17,
51
whichh reached me at ynon
ac'dhess, aiire.-
t home take
if io too fad
of mncin f yon tine agion
the recording
earion reacgco
deunct Sapanese sondo
154 a natter
e. foun. rahe
8
1 Tom Tmin
3.R.Beth
Dris) . 1eh

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.95)
1
 71048
In reply refer to
N s94.51 Bondholders
/4-2247
My dear Mrs. Blyth:
BONDHOLDERS/5-748
In going over my files, I find no reeord that your
letter or Apr1l 22, 1947, regarding a $1000.00 Tokyo
has been answered in detail-although a prelimimary ans-
wer was sent to you on May 28, 1947. I regwet very mmak
the delay in replying in full to your inquiry.
The Department has made a resord, for suek use as
may be found to be appropriate, or the information you
have submitted, but in order that there may be no mis-
understanding or the significance of its asseptanse of
this data, there is set forth a brief mtatement relative
to the Department's position in the matter.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into whieh the
purcheser enters after caloulation of the risks involved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by private enti-
ties, it is assumed that the holders will be prepased,
if nesessary, to avail thenselves of the usual methods to
ver resort to sueh measures is pessible. In sase ef
default on dollar bonds issued by or guaranteed by govern-
mental entities, as is the bond mentioned by you, it is
not the practice or the Department to negotiate direstly
CSA
for American holders, but it does endeavor to render such
assistance as it properly can to sueh holders or their
representatives. In this connection attention may be
called to the Foreign Bondholders Proteotive Couneil,
894.
Ineorporated, 90 Broad Street, Mew York, New York, whieh
was organized severel years ago to serve as a eentral
representative body. Although it was established with
SS
the encouragement of the Department; the Couneil aets on
its own responsibility. Some time ago, at the request
@
111+
Mrs. A. J. Blyth,
3806 01d Shol1 Road,
Spring Hill, Alabamm.

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
ef the Sommeil, the Department transmitted to the
Vaited States Politieal Adviser to the Sapreme Gamsas-
der for the Allied Powers, at Tekyo, a eomplete stase-
by Japanese gevernmeatal entities. This statemens was
sent fer the information and use of the Pelitieal
Adviser and of the appropriate seetioa er the Ssarr ef
the Supreme Commander, and fer such metien as might be
sonsidered appropriate in the protestien of the Ameri-
ean interest involved. The Department believes that
the Couneil is mimdful of the interests of Amerieam
holders of suoh obligations and that it will, whem
occasion offers, take sueh steps as it eonsiders te be
to the advantage of the holders. Tom may wisk to write
to the Couneil in conneetion with the bond held by yeu.
It will be appreeiated that the Department is met
in a positiom to state pow what provisions, if any, af-
fecting such obligations, may be sontaimed in the Pease
Treaty with Japan, or what provision for elaims arising
from the war may be made. As you doubtless kmow, there
will be many olaims and demends agaimst Japas, and
against Japanese munieipalities and persons, of whish
sush obligations as that to which you refer will pro-
bably constitute but a mmall part.
Mevertheless, as indieated above, the Department
has made a record or the imformation submitted by you
relative to your holding. Il it mhould later be found
advisable for individual American holders to take fur-
ther steps, due announcement will be made in the pablie
press.
Binoerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
James S. Corliss. Assistast Chier
MAY
1943PM
FN:VWJohes:rt
4/28/48
OFD

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.97)
MAY 101948
7
In reply refer to
094.51 Bendkolders
/4-1447
My dear Dr. Hess:
In going over my files, I find no recerd that your
letter of April 14, 1947, relative to dollar bonds of
HOLDERS/5-1048
the Mippon Kleetrio Pokar Company, Limited, has beem
answered in detail although a preliminary answer was
sent to you on May 27, 1947. I regret very mmeh the
delay in replying in full to your inquiry.
Since communications of a non-transactional mature
can now be sent to Japan, it is suggested that you write
directly to the headquarters of the Mippen Elestrie
Power Company, Limited, to aseertain what the present
status of the eompany is.
With regard to the dollar obligations of this com-
pany, a definitive statement regarding the future posi-
tion of such bonds is not now possible, but the followins
may be helpful to your understanding of the Department's
position with respect to sueh obligations.
The Department considers that investment im foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into whieh the
purehaser enters after ealeulation of the risks invelved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by private
entities, it is assumed that the holders will be prepared,Ω
8
IS
if nesessary, to avail themselves of the usual methods
to exereise any rights they may possess, whenever and
A
wherever resort to such measures is possible. In ease
of default on dollar bonds issmed by or guaranteed by
governmental entities, as are the bonds mentiomed by you,
it is not the practiee of the Department to megotiate
direstly for Ameriean holders, but it dees endeavor to
render such assistance as it properly can to such holders
or their representatives. In this connection, attentien
may be
Dr. C. L. Hess,
308 Davidsom Building,
8
Bay City, Miehigan.
sad

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.96)
1
- 2 -
may be ealled te the Pereiga Bondholders Pretestive
Gedneil, Ineorperated, 90 Mroad Street, New Yerk, Now
Yerk, whiek was organised several years age te serve as a
a eentral representative body. Although it was estab-
lished with the eneouragement of the Department, the
Coumeil asts on its own responsibility. Seme time age,
at the request of the Counsil, the Departmemt trans-
mitted to the Umited States Politieal Maviser te the
Sapreme Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tekye, a
guaranteed by Japanese goveramental entities. This
statement was sent for the information and use of the
Political Adviser and of the appropriate sestiom of the
Staff of the Supreme Commander, and for sueh aetien as
might be considered appropriate in the proteetien or the
American interest involved. The Department believes
that the Council is mindful of the interests of Amerieam
holders of such obligations and that it will, when sees-
sion offers, take sueh steps as it eonsiders to be te
the advantage of the holders. Tou may wish to write to
the Counoil in conneotion with the bonds memtiomed by
you.
It will be appresiated that the Department is mot
in a position to state now what provisions, if amy, af-
feeting such obligations may be contained in the Pease
Treaty with Japan, or what provision for claims arising
from the war may be made. Às you doubtless know, there
will be many claims and demands against Japan, and agaimst
Japanese municipalities and persons, of which sueh obli-
gations as those to which you refer will probably eom-
stitute only a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department is glad to make a
reeord, for such future consideration as may be found to
be appropriate, of the information submitted by Ameriean
oitizens with regard to their holdings of sueh obliga-
tions. Such information shoul include the interest rate
of the bonds, the dates of issue and maturity, the fase
value, the manner and date of mcquisition of the bonds,
the purehase price, the last peyment of interest thereom,
and the manner (whether by birth or naturalization) and
date of mequisition by the holder of American sitisen-
ship. If eitizenship was acquired by maturalization.
the mame and location of the court granting eitisenship,
and the number of the relative eertirieate sheuld also
o

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.86)
2008
1.litmax
-3-
individual holders to take further ateps, due
meat will be made in the publie press.
Sinserely yours,
For the Astizg Sesretary of states
James C. Coclice
Jamea C. Corliss, Aasistant Ghier
MAY 10 1928 P.
ORSNN
√FN:VWJONES:rt-14/27/48
OE

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.96)
MAY191948
En reply refer to F
P 094.51 Bondholders
/8-1967
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/5-1948
My dear Mr. Toribara:
In going over my files, I find no record that your
letter of Hay 9, l947, relative to Japanese bonds boughs
through Amerloan banking ohannels, has been answered in
detail,although a preliminary answer was sent to you m
May 26, 1947. I regret very much the delay in replying
in full to your inquiry. It is assumed that the bonds
to whioh you refer are payable in dallars.
A definitiva reply to your inquiry is not now pos-
sible, but the following may be helpful to your wnder-
atanding of the Department's position with respeot to
such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreige
bonds is primarily a private transaotion into whioh the
purchaser enters after caloulation of the risks involved.
In cese of default on dollar bonds issued by private
entities, it is assumed that the holders will be prepared.
1f necessary, to avail themselves of the usual methoke to
exercise any rights they may possess, whenever and where-
default on dollar bonds issued by or guaranteed by geverm-
mental entities it is not the practics of the Departmemt
to negotiate direotly for American holders, but it dees
endeavor to render suoh assißtance as it properly eam to
such holders or their representatives. In this connestiem
attention may be called to the Foreigm Bondholders Pretee-
tive Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad street, New York,
New York, which was organized several years ago to serve
as a central representative body. Although it was estab-
l1ahed with the enccuragement of the Department, the
Goume1l
C
S
F21+
AV
Mr. Frank Y. Toribara,
363 East Fifth Avenue,
Spokane 10, Washington.
m

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.96)
Coumeil, acts on its own responsibility. Some time ege.
at the request of the Couneil, the Department transmit-
ted to the United states Political Mviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokye,a
momplete statement regarding the dollar bomds issued or
guaranteed by Japanese governmental entities. This
statement was sent for the informatiom and use of the
Political Adviser and of the appropriate seotion of the
Staff of the Supreme Commander, and for sueh motion as
might be considered appropriate in the protection of the
American interest involved. The Department believes that
the Council 1s mindful of the interests of Ameriean
holders of such obligations and that it will, whem esee-
sion offers, take such steps as it considers to be to
the advantege of the holders. You may wish to write to
the Counoil in connection with the bonds mentioned by
you.
It will be apprectated that the Department is not
in a position to state now what provisions, if any,
affecting such obligations, may be contained in the Peaee
Treaty with Japan, or what provislon for claims arising
from the war may be mode. As you doubtless know, there
wil: be many clalns and demands against Japan, and agaimst
Jonanece municipalities and persons, or whioh such oblige-
tions as those to which you refer will probably constitute
but : small part.
Nevertheless, the Department is gled to make a reeore,
for such future coneideration as may be found to be appse-
priete, of the information submitted by American citisons
with regard to their holdings of such obligations. weh
information should include the interest rate of the bonds.
the dates of iasue and maturity, the face value, the
manner and date of ecguisition of the bonds, the purehase
price, the last payment of interest thereon, and the mmmmer
(whether by birth or naturelization) and date of acquisi-
tion by the holder of American citizenahip. If citizem-
ship was acquired by naturalization, the name and loeatiom
of the Court granting citizenehip, and the number of the
relative certificate should also be given. If it should
later be found advisable for individual holders to take
further steps, due announcement will be made in the
public press.
eax
Sincerely yours,
For the Beoretary of State:
Jamee C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Division of Finamcial Affairs
2200
0FD
S/S-CR
Fll:vwrones:gwe
5/12/48

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.95)
FORM DS-516
5-13-47
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
CLERK'S
FILE NUMBER
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT
CHARGE TO-
DATE OF CHARGE
INITIALS
It to lugusta
OFD
-29.50
Friedman
divecly
Dm
894.51 Bouel haedi
15-2048

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.98)
Ia reply refer to
IN 894.51 Bondholders
/10-2447
My dear Miss Friedman:
Reference is made to your letter dated Oetober 24.
1947, acknowledged by the Department on November 3, 1947.
ONDHOLDERS/5-2048
relative to German and Japanese bonds whioh you hold.
It is regretted that an answer to your inquiry has been
so long delayed.
The information contained in your letter is not suf-
ficient to enable the Department to make satisfactory
reply. It is requested that you send to the Department.
for eaoh bond, the following data:
(1) the exact name of the obligor, the interest
rate, the dates of issue and maturity, the
face value, the manner and date of acquisitiom
of the bonds, the purchase price, and the last
payment of interest thereon;
(2)
the manner (whether by birth or naturalization)
and date of your acquisition of American eiti-
zenship. If citizenship was aoquired by natura-
lization, the name and looation of the court
granting citizenship and the number of the rela-
tive certificate should also be given.
Upon receipt of the above data, the Department will
give further consideration to your inquiry.
894.
Sincerely yours,
Fer the Secretary of State:
CS/
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chief
Diyision of Financial Affairs.
-2048
Miss Augusta Friedman,
2564 Creston Avenue,
Bronx 58, New Yorkd
FN:VWJones:rt 5/17/48

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.92)
F
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/5-2448
In reply refer to
VN 894.51 Bendholdera/4-1447
JUN221948
My dear Dr. Hess:
Referesee is made to your letter ef May 24, 1948, imgairing
what effect vesting of the assets of the Wippon Eleetrie Pewer
0
Compaxy by the Ofrice of Alien Property may have upon yeur pesi-
tien as claimant.
The vesting of the assets of the Nippon Pewer Cempany in the
United States tramsfers to the Uaited States Geverament title to
these assets. By filing a claim against them yeu weald bessme a
debt-claimant for a pertion of them, instead ef a erediter of the
Nippon Elestrio Power Cempany as swek, pursmant to the terme of
the indenture under whioh the bonds were fleated.
The Depertment regrets that it is wnable to state mew whether
or what consideratiom mmy be given to the vesting proeedure in the
Peace Treaty with Japan.
Simeerely yours,
Fer the Secretary of State:
CS/V
James C. Cerliss
Assistant Chief
Division of Finamoial Affairs
C. L. Eess, M.D.,
308 Davidsen Building,
Bay City, Michigan.
sn
80m
FN: JCC:
6/14/48
L/E
2448
948P.M.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.93)
C. L.'HESS. M. D.
SOG DAVIDSON BUILDING
BAY CITY. MICHIGAN
INTERNAL MEDICINE
OWISION OF FRANNCIN AFFAIRS
MAY 26 1948
May 24, 1948
J Corliss 6/14/48
DERARTMENT OF STATE
James C. Corliss,
Division of Financial Affairs,
BONDHOLDERS/5-2448
Department of-State,
p
Washington, D. C.
RE FN 894.51 Bondholders
/4 - 1447
Dear Mr. Corliss:
Your letter of 5/10/48 received relative to dollar
bonds of the Nippon Eleotrio Power, Limited.
U
I have a letter from John C. Lehr, United States Attory
FILED
12
in Detroit stating that the assets of the company were vested
1565
under order 4280 and giving instruotion for our filing a olaim
with the United States Bovernment on Form APC -1C. May I inquire
how such vestment affeots our position as claimant.
Yours truly,
Cdveer.
C. L. Hoss,M.D.
CLH.h
CS/V
5-2448
sun
hoeders

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.94)
ACT
OASIN OF 
EN OF STATE
JUN 3
FNiVWJones
DEPARTMEN
16 West·Avenue
byR
Holley, li.Y.
May 25, 1948
JUN 1 1948
DEPT.!
DC
Department of State
Attention of the Legal Department
Washington, D.C.
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/5-2548
Gentlemen:
ir. Fazelon, Director of the Office of
Alien Property aivises me that certain matters dis-
cussed in my letter tc him are within the juris-
diction of the Department of State. Accordingly,
I respectfully ask you to advise me how best to
secure payment of interest coupons as described in
enclosure.
Flease return said enclosure to me.
Sincerely yours,
Frank Colucoi
and
00
Enclosure
e
JUN12 1951
FILED
894.51
CSA
5-2548

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.98)
16 West Avenue
Holley, N.Y.
Apr1l 21, 1948
Offioe of Alien Property Custodian
Washington 25, D. C.
Gentlemen:
At the suggestion of a lawyer I should
liker to request your advice concerning a Japanese
bond whioh I own. It is a $1000 lio. M 5267 First
Mortgage 6 1/2 % Sinking Fund Pond, due Deo. 1,
1952 issued by Shinyetsu Electrio Power Co., Ltd.,
Japan. Poth prinoipal and interest are payable
by its Fiscal Agent Dillon, Read & Co., New York,
or its successor. Poth prinoipal and interest are
payable in time of war or peace.
Ther interest coupons have not been hon-
ored since Dec. 1, 1941. The enolosure will
clarify this point. Please return this enolosure
to me as soon as possible.
Kindly indicate how to secure payment
of coupons already due and those whioh will
periodically become due.
Thanking you, I am
Sincerely yours,
Frank Coluooi
Veteran World War 1 (enliated)
U.S. Air Foroe, Intelligence
Section--active service in France
Eno.

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.96)
JN181948
In reply refer to
F 894.51 Bondholdera/5-2548
My dear Mr. Colucci:
894.51
Referenee is made to your letter dated May 25, 1948, relative to
a $1000.00 Shinyetsu Electrie Power Company, Limited, bond whieh you
own.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not possible at the present
BONDHOLDERB/5-2548
time, but the following may be helpful to your understanding of the
Department's position with respect te such ebligations.
The Department considers that iavestment in foreign bonds is
primarily a private transastion into mhich the purehaser enters after
caloulation of the risks involved. In ease of default on doller beads
issued by private entities, it is assumed that the holders will be
prepared, if meeessary, to avail themselves of the meal metheds to
exercise any rights they may possess, whenever and wherever resert to
such measures is possible. In ease of default on dollar bonds isseed
by or guaranteed by governmental entities, as is the bond mentioned by
you, it is not the practice of the Departmeht to negotiate directly
for Amerioan holders, but it does endeavor to render such assistasee
as it properly can to such holders or their representatives. In this
connection attentiom mmy be called to the Foreign Bondholders Proteetive
Coumeil, Inoorporated, 90 Broad Street, Wew York, New York, whish was
organised several years ago to serve as a central representative bedy.
Although it was established with the eneouragement of the Departmemt,
the Coumeil acts on its own responsibility. Some time ago, at the
request of the Counoil, the Department transmitted to the Uaited States
Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, at
Tokye, a complete statement regarding the dollar bonds issued or
guaranteed by Japanese governmental entities. This statement was sent
for the information and use of the Political Adviser and of the appre-
priate section of the Staff of the Supreme Commander, and for sush
CSA
action as might be considered appropriate in the protestion of the
American interest involved. Subsequsstly, the Department tramsmitted
ω
to
Mr. Frank Colucei,
16 West Avemue,
Holley, New York.
Anal.Y
5
Revi
5
C
Dis+

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
of this preposed measure for the protectiem of the Amerieam faterest
involved. The Departaent believes that the Comell is mimdfal of the
interests of Ameriean holders of sweh obligatiems and that it will,
when occasion effers, take such stepe as it eeasiders to be to the
advantage of the belders. Iou may wish to write to the Comell in m
mestion with the bond mentioned by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is met in a pesitiem to
state now mhat provisions, if any, affeeting sush ebligatiens, may be
costained in the Pease Treaty with Japes, or what previsiem fer elaime
arising from the war mey be made. As you doubtless keew, there will be
and persons, of which such ebligatione as that to whish yeu refer will
probably constitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department will be glad te make a recerd, fer
suoh future consideration as may be found to be appropriate, of the
information submitted by you with regard to your helding. You sheuld
also inform the Department of the manmer and date of your eoquisitiem
of American citisenship. If cltisemship was acquired by maturalisaties,
the name and lecation of the court granting citisemship, and the member
of the relative certificate should alse be given. If it sheald later
be found advisable for individual holders to take further steps, due
announcement will be made in the public press.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Jamss C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Divisien of Financial Affairs
JUN 17 1948P.M
FN:VWJones:W
6/15/48

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.96)
A
✓ L. E. Colgrove
Real Estate
Insurance
Property Management
Mortgages
May 26, 1948
66
Secretary of State
Washington 25, D.C.
att: Mr. James C. Corliss
ONISON OF FANCIAL AFFA
Assistant Chief
Division of Financial 5
Affairs
JUN 1 1948
Subject:
FN 894.51
1N Cmli2
Bondholders 3-848
BONDHOLDERS/5-2648
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Your 1etter 5-14-48
Dear sir:
I wish to thank you for your letter of
May 14, regarding certain Imperial Japanese Govern-
ment 62% dollar bonds.
In your letter you asked that I make a
statement regarding my birth. I am an American
citizen by birth, having been born in Hastings,
Michigan, March 4, 1889. Further, I served in the
Aviation Section of the United States army in
World War I. I am also proud of the fact that I
have two sons who served in the United States Navy
Air Forces during World War II. They were dis-
charged as Lieutenants. Further, bc th my father
and mother were American citizens by birth.
As you suggested, I will communicate
with the Foreign Bondholders Protective Counoil.
Thanking you again for your cooperation,
I am
Sincerely,
C
RE CG
S
A
LEC:W
FILEL
139 West Maple Avenue
Phone Birmingham 460

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.92)
JUN181948
In reply refer to
PN 894.81 Bemdhelders/8-848
My dear Mr. Colgrove:
The reeeipt is aekeewledged ef your letter dated
May 26, l96s submitting certain infermatiem in cemmeetiem
with the Imperial Japanese Gevermmest dellar bends which
you held.
As indieated in its letter of May 14, 194s, the De-
partment will make a record of ths date submitted by yeu
for sueh future comsideration as may be found to be
apprepriate.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
James g. Corliss, Assistant Chief,
Diyisiom of Fimmeial Affaire.
5-2648
DCR . OFD Unit
11
Mr. L. E. Celgreve,
189 West Maple Avenne,
Birmingham, Miehigan.
JON 17 1948P.M.
29
FN:VWJones:ms
6/16/48

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.97)
gap
MAY28194
In reply refer to
1N 894.51 Bondholders
/1-1648
My dear Mr. Harada:
de
Reference 1s made to your letter dated January 16,
1948, acknowledged by the Department on Janmary 28, 194s.
relative to the status or Tokyo Electrio Light Company
bonds. It is assumed that you refer to the dollar bonds
of this company.
HOLDERS/5-2848
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not now pessible,
but the following may be helprul to your understanding or
the Department's position wit: respect to such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into which the
purehaser enters after calouletion of the risks involved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued by private enti-
ties, it is assumed that the holders will be prepared, if
necessary, to avail themselves of the usual methods to
exeroise any rights they may possess, whenever and wher-
ever resort to such measures is possible. In case of
default on dollar bonds lssued by or guaranteed by govern-
mental entities, as are the bonds mentioned by you, it is
not the praotice of the Department to negotiate direetly
for American holders, but it does endeavor to render such
assistance as it properly can to such holders or their
representatives. In this connection attention may be arlled
to the Foreign Bondholders Proteotive Couneil, Incorporated,
Although it was established with the encouragemunt of tas
8
Department, the Council aots on its own responsibility.
9
Some time ago, at the request of the Couneil, the Depart-
ment transmitted to the United States Politioal Adviser to
h
S
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokyo, 
complete statement regarding the dollar bonds issued or
guaranteed
Mr. Sumajiro Harada,
503 Truman Boyd Manor,
GFD Cait
Long Beach 10, California.
b.g.
list.

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.96)
guaranteed by Japanese goveramental entities. This
statement was sent for the informatien and wee ef the
Pelitical Adviser and of the appropriate sestion of the
Staff of the Supreme Commander, and for smek metiem as
might be considered appropriate in the preteetiem of
the Ameriean interest involved. The Department believes
that the Couneil is mindful of the interests of Ameriesm
helders of sueh obligations and that it will, whes eees-
sion offers, take such steps as it somsiders to be te
the advantage of the holders. Tou may wish to write to
the Council in connection with the bonds mentioned by
you.
It wiil be appreciated that the Department is not
in a position to state now what provisions, if any.
arreeting suoh obligations, may be contaimed in the Pease
Treaty with Japan, or what provision for olaims arising
from the war may be made. s you doubtless know, there
will be many claims and demands against Japan, and against
Japanese municipalities and persons, of whieh sueh obli-
gations as those to which you refer will probably com-
stitute but a mmall part.
Nevertheless, the Department is glad to make a reeord,
for such future consideration as may be found to be appro-
priate of the information submitted by American citizens
with regard to their holdings of suoh obligations. Sush
information should include the intsrest rate of the bonds,
the dates of issue and maturity, the face value, the
manner and date of aoquisition or the bonds, the purehase
price, the last payment of interest thereon, and the man-
ner (whether by birth or naturalization) and'date of
moquisition by the holder or merican citizenship. If
citizenship was aoquired by naturalization, the name and
looation of the court granting citizenship, and the num-
ber of the relative certifieate should also be given.
If it should later be found advisable for individual
holders to take further stpps, due announeement will be
made in the public press.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
CR
James C. Corriás, Assistant quidr
MAY 28 1948
Diviston of Financial Afrairs
2200
(FL)
OFDQ
FN:VWJones:rt 5/21/48

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.97)
MAY281948
In reply refer to
N 894.51 Bondholders
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/5-2848
18-047
Dillon. Reed and Company,
Nassau and Cedar Streets,
New York 5, New York.
sirs:
Reference 1s made to your letter of May 6, 1947, ame
to the Department's aoknowledgment of May 19, 1947, re-
Itallan and Polish issues in the offering of which the
firm of Dillon, Reed and Company participated. It is
regretted that the reply to your letter has been so lome
delayed.
A definitive reply to your letter is not possible
even at this time but the following may be helpful to
your understanding of the Department's position relative
to these obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreigm
bonds is primarily a private transaction into which the
purchaser enters after caloulation of the risks involvel.
In the case of default on dollar bonds issued by or
guaranteed by governmental entities, as are the Japanese
bonds mentioned in your letter, it is not the practiee
of the Department to negotiate direotly for Amerioam
holders, but it does endeavor to render such assistamee
as it properly can to suoh holders or their representatives.
8
In this conneetion attention may be called to the Foreigm
94.57
Bondholders Protective Council, Incorporated, 90 Breed
Street, New York, New York, whioh was organised several
years ago to serve as a central representative body.
Although it was establiahed with the encouragement of 
Department, the Council acts on its own responsibilis.
ment tranamitted to the United States Political Advieer
to the Supreme Gommander for the Allied Powers, at Tokye
uh
a complete
CS/V

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.95)
一8-
a eemplete statement regarding the dellar beads isssed
or guarasteed by Japanese goveramental entities. Thls
Political Adviser and of the appropriate sestiem of the
might be considered appropriate in the preteetiem ef
that the Counell is mindful of the interests of Ameriemm
the advantage of the holders. You may wish to write te
the Counell in connection with the bonds mentioned by you.
A short time ago the Department transmitted to the
Reparations and Restitution Delegation, at Tekye, a
request of the Foreign Bondholders Preteetive Geumeil
that the mortgages seourigs the various dellar utility
issues, inoluding those listed by you, be reinstated.
In forvarding the Counell's letter to the Delegatien
the Department requested the views of the Delegatien
soneerning the matter. Thas far a reply has met yet
been received, but when one resshes the Department the
matter will be disoussed with the Poreigs Bemdhelders
Proteetive downell. Yen may wish, therefore, to keep in
toueh with the Goumeil and ask it to transmit to you may
information whieh it may rescive relative te this aspest
of the Japanese utility issues.
It will be appreclated that the Department is mot
in a position to state now what provisioms, if any,
affecting sueh obligations, may be contained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provisiom for elaims
against Japanese municipalities and persons, of which
such obligations as those to which you refer will probably
constitute but a small part.'
Nevertheless, the Department is always glad to make
a record, for suoh consideration as may be found to be
appropriate, of any imformation American holders of
defaulted foreign dollar bonds may wish to send to it.
This information should inolude the pertinent faets
deseribing and identifying the bonds (name of obligor,
interest rate, dates of issue and maturity), the date
and manner of purohase and the purohase price. There
should be given also a statement regarding the date and
manner of the helder's sequisition of Ameriean sitizen-
ship, and if citizenship was aoquired by naturalization
there

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.97)
一3 -
there mhould be given the mame and lesatlon of the Gowirt
granting it and the mumber of the relative eertifieats.
If it skould be found advisable for individual heldere ef
such obligations to take steps in the matter, the Begart-
ment will endeávor to have due publielty given to the
faot.
Your letter refers to a direetive of Angust 13, 194s,
desigmating a certain plant for removal for reparatioms.
The Department has no information that any power plast
belonging to any of the companies mentioned by you has
been removed for reparations.
To your letter there was attached a list of other
1ssues in the offering of which your company had parti-
cipated. The German issues, so far as they are the
direct or indirect obligations of governmental entities
are in somewhat the same position as the governmental
guaranseed Japanese 1ssues previously disoussed. In the
case of the non-guaranteed issues it is assumed that
hulaers will avail themselves of the usual methods to
secure enforcement of any rights they may possess when
resort to such measures becomes practicable. The Depart-
ment regrets that it is unable to state now when this may
be. With respeot to all the German issues, of course,
the Department is unable to suggest now what, if any.
provisions may be included in the Peace Treaty relative
thereto. As indicated above, the Departwent will be glad
to receive, for such consideration as may be found advio-
able, any information owners of these bonds may wish to
send to it regarding their holdings.
In connection with the Italian issues you are doubt-
less familiar with the offer mads by the Italian Goverm-
ment in December l947 relative to resumption of payments
upon the two lesues wentioned by you. If you wish further
details, you might write to the Foreign Bondholdere Pre-
tective Council, Inoorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York,
New York.
With respect to the Polish 1ssues you are doubtless
familiar with the announcement made by the Finaneial
Counselor of the Polish Embassy at Washington, on behalf
of his Government, on November 12, 1946, in which he
reaffirmed a previous declaration of the Polish Govern-
ment (on June 3, 1940) reoognizing 1ts obligations to
foreign bondholders and stating 1ts firm intention, in
agreement with the Foreign Bondholders Protective Counoll,
Ineorporated,

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.94)
Incorporatel, as regards the publisky issmed beads, 
the representatives of the holders with respest to
making of sueh plans for the resumptien of payments
be further delayed until conditions affeeting its ability
to make payments in foreign exchange beeome more mermals
The Department is not aware ef any subsequent anmoumeems
by the Polish authorities, but umdoubtodly the Foreigm
Bondholders Protective Counoll is following this sitmatism
closely and you may wish to ask that it keep you mdvisek
relative to these obligations also.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
James C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Division of Financlal Affairs
MAY 27 190
OFDA
FN:JOCorliss:gwe
5/18/48
s/s-on

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.94)
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELOR AT LAW
OSION OF FININIL ATS
2630 LEVEQUE-LINCOLN TOWER
COLUMBUS IB, OHIO
DCR
TELEPHONE MAIN 3319
May 29. 1948
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/5-2948
1948
Office of Legal Advisor
Department of St ate
Washington, D. C.
R.H.4EFER
Dear Sir:
I mailed Form APC- 1C to the Office of Alien
Property, in behalf of my client, for filing. I am
enclosing an extra copy of the form herewith.
()
As you will note from the form the claim is
b: sed upon Japanese Government Bonds and Jananese
Gevernment Guarenteed Bonds. I assume the tr stees
under the bond incentures have elready filed proper
claims in behalf of all the bond holders; but si nce
I could not outain that information I filed the above
referred to claim.
Sixteen thousand dollars plus accrued interest
of tie claim is Bonds of the External Loan of 1924. Thir-
ty year Sinking Fund !  Gold Bond $150,000.000. iss
c the Imperial Jepanese Governnent. Forty Four thousand
dollars plus accrued interest of the clain is Bonds of
the External Loan thirty year Six Per Cent Gold Debenture
issue of The Criental Developnent Compary. Limited and
uncenditionally guaranteed by the Imperial Japan ese Gov-
ernment.
I submit the statament of claim to you with the
thought that you may offer some advice and/or assist ance.
Robert bur Dl
Yours very truly,
Robert Dow Familton
V
RDH/mc
enc. (Ck-LE
att-
DCB - CLAMS UT
Anal.
Cesu

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.98)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
NOTICE OF CLAIM FOR PAYMENT OF DEBT
(Please read the instructions before flling out the form)
1. Claimant's name
(Person who now owns the ciaim, not an agent or attorney)
Have you already filed notice of clam ror this debt? YesNo(Check one). If yes, give claim No
2. Agent for service of notice (if any)
(Person to whom notices and letters should be semt)
Address for service of notice
(If you have no agent, give your own malling addreie)
3. Identification of debtor and property
(a) Name of debtor
n wno owes the debt you want pald)
Vesting Order (s) No.
Brief description
(In gencral terms, as "100 shares X Corporation common stock," "deposit at X Bank," "real estate in I city.")
(c)
Supplemental identification:
(See Instruction D (2). If you are not able to supply informatlon called for by both (a) and (b) of this item, state in a supplemmemt te thls
addresses of the debtor, any property of this debtor that you know exists in the United States.)
4. Amount claimed (fill out each line; if inapplicable, write "none").
(b) Additions other than interest
(Penalties. protest fees, etc.)
(c) Total before deductions
(d) Payments on account
(e) Other deductions
(Indicate nature)
(f) Total deductions
(g) Net amount claimed, without interest
(h) Do you claim interest? Yes ☐ No ☐ (Check one).
If yes, give rate, period, and amount, as followa:
percent, frome
onth. year)
5. Nature of debt
dise supplied." "promissory note." "damages for contract not performed," "refund om
(In general tarms,
6. Date debt ar
(Month)
7. Security you now hold, if
(In general terms, as "mortgage of
has been taken by the Custodlan, see Thstruction A.)
8. Priority claimed, if any (see sec. 34 (g) of the Act, reprinted on the instruction sheet).
Wages and salaries (sec. 34 (g) (1))
Claims of United States (sec. 34 (g) (2))
Services, rent, goods, etc. (sec. 34 (g) (3))
None
DUPLICATE

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.69)
9. Detafls of debt.
se t. , e to the e e of he  
810, , dee Lee. S.,000.00 to the ptmry ebt en  the etee ove
Gempeny, Liadted being the Bartermel Lemn Thirty Tome Bis Fer Goat. Grse Bebestens
) 

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
10. Defenses and counterclaims
hleh the debtor has alleged, and its amoust)
11. Questions for individual claimants (corporations do not answer).
Citizenship
Present residence addre
(Ctta)
Since
(Date when you began residing at this address)
(If you have resided at any other addresses at any time since December 7, 1941, state them all,
of residence, at each address, in a supplement to this item.)
12. Questions for corporate claimants (individuals do not answer).
State in which incorporated
Date of incorporation
Principal office
(Number)
(Street)
(Clty)
13. Additional questions for assignees, legal representatives, and successors in interest. (Do not ans
questions if you are the original creditor. Answer them only if you are filing a claim which
belonged to someone else, and which you have acquired by assignment, by operation of law, or oth
(a) Original creditor's name
(b) Original creditor's address on date debt arose (see item 6)
(c) Latest date when original creditor held debt
(Day)
(Month)
(Year)
(d) If original creditor was an individual or a group of individuals, including a partnership,
he (they) a citizen of the United States or the Philippine Islands at all times he (they) held the claim?
Yes ☐ No  (Check one). If no, give country (countries) and dates of other citizenship
(e) If original creditor was an individual or a group of individuals, including a partnership, was he (they)
a resident of the United States at all times he (they) held the claim? Yes No  (Check one)
If no, give country (countries) and dates of other residence
(f) If original creditor was a corporation, give State (or foreign country if not within the United States)
and date of incorporation
(State or country)
Date of incorporation
(Day)
(Month)
(Year)
(g) Did you acquire the debt directly from the original creditor? Yes No (Check one). If no,
a supplement to answer questions (a) to (f) of this item, inclusive, for every other person who held
debt prior to your acquisition of it.
(h) How did you acquire the debt?
(In general terms, as "assigned," "heir," "executor," "reorganization of corporation," etc. Use a supplement to state detalls, and supply eoples ofd
reled on to establish your present ownership of the debt. If any such documents are court orders, the copy attached to the "original" of thie 
osrtifled by the court or other competent official.)
(i) Are you the sole beneficial owner of the claim? Yes☐ No☐ (Check one). If no, name th
owners and state nature of their interest
14. If there are any other facts of which you wish to advise the Custodian, state them in asupplement to thi
15. Fass of attorneys, agents, and representatives:
Name of attorney, agent,

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.97)
to (or affirm) the following:
statement that does not apply.)
élaimant named in item 1.
I am an ofcer of the claimant corporation holding the position of
(b) The statements made in this notice of claim and in all supplements attached
be trus, except as noted to be "upon information and belief."
(e) I have no knowledge of any fact called for by this notice of claim (including th
not fully set forth.
(Sigmature)
B.H. Shafer
Note.It is a criminal offense to make a willfully false statement or representation to any department or
States Government. U. S. Code, Title 18, sec. 80.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.92)
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/5-2948
JUN181948
In reply refer to
FN 894.51 Bondholders/5-2948
2.0
My dear Mr. Hamiltom:
Referenee is made to yeur letter dated May 29, 194s relative to
osrtain Imperial Japenese Govermment and Criemtal Develépment Cempary,
Limited, dollar bonds held by your elient, Mr. R. M. Shafer.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not possible at the peresent
time, but the following may be helpful to your waderstanding of the
Department's positien with respeet to such obligatiems.
The Department considers that ixvestmest in fereigs beets is
primarily a private transastiom iato whieh the purekaser enters after
ealeulatien of the riaks involved. In ease of default om dollar bemls
issued by private entities, it is assumed that the holders will be pre-
pared, if necessary, to avail themeelves of the usual metheds to emes-
cise any rights they my possess, whesever and wherever resort to sesk
measures is possible. In case of default on doller bends isseed by er
guaranteed by governmental entities, as are the bonds mentiened by yeu,
it is not the practice of the Department to megotiate direetly for
Amerisan holders, but it does endeavor to render such assistames as it
preperly can to such holders or their representatives. In this eemmse-
tion attentiom may be called to the Foreign Bendhelders Proteetive
Council, Inoorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York, New York,whish was
organised several years age to serve as a csatral represestative bedy.
Although it was established with the emeouragement of the Departasst,
the Coumeil acts on its own respomsibility. Seme time ago, at the
request of the Coumeil, the Department transmitted te the Uaited States
Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, at
Tokyo, a complete statement regarding the dollar bonds issued er gear-
anteed by Japanese governmeatal entities. This statement was sent for
8
the infermatien and use of the Politieal Adviser and of the apprepriate
S
9
sectiem of the Staff of the Supreme Cemmander, and for suoh actiem as
f
might be considered apprepriate in the pretectiem ef the Amerieas
V
interest involved. Subsequently, the Department transmitted to the
5
Reparations
Mr. Rebert Dow Hamilten,
R0
Attermey and Coumseler At Law,
PCR. OFD Unit
2630 Leveque-Lineoln Tower,
15-294
Columbus 15, Chie.
M

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
Reparatiene and Restitatian Delegatien, at Tekye, a requeet af the
Lavolved. The Department believes that the Ceumell is mimdfal of the
Lnterests ef American holders of sack obligatiens and thet it will,
mhen oscasion offers, take sueh steps as it eensiders to be to the
advantage of the holders. You may wisk to write to the Comell in
eoamsction with the boads mentioned by you.
It will be appreciated that the Departmeat is met in a pesitiem to
state now what provisions, if axy, affecting sush ebligatiems, may be
contaimed in the Peace Treaty with Japan, or what previsiem fer elaims
arising from the war may be made. As you doubtless keew, there will
be many claime and demands agaiast Japes, and against Japamese mmiei-
palities and persons, of whisk smch obligatiems as those to whisk yeu
refer will probably constitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, the Departmeat will make a recore, fer sesk future
donsideratiem as may be found to be appreprlate, ef the infermatiem
submitted by you with regard to Mr. Shafer's heldings. Mr. Shafer
sheuld also inform the Depertment of the mammer and date of his mequi-
sition of the bends, the purehase price, and the mammer (whether by
birth or naturalisation) and date of his acquisition of Amerieem eitises-
ship. If citisenship was soquired by naturalimtien, the mame and
loeation of the court granting oitisenship, and the mumber of the
relative certifieate sheuld also be givea. If it should later be foumd
advisable for individual holders to taks further steps, dwe anmomee-
ment will be made in the public press.
Simcerely yours,
Fer the Secretary of State:
Jam C. Cerliss
1号
Assistant Chief
Divisien of Fimancial Affairs
N 17 1948P.M.
700g
/FN:VWJONeSPEW
6/15/48

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.94)
IRISHLT
p 7 1946
éine
Juno 2,1948
The Minister of Ireland presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has the
honor to inform him that he has received a number of
inquiries from Irish holders of Japanese bonds, in
regard to the possibility of thar obtaining some re-
turn on their holdings. In particular, the Athlone
Woollen Mills Company have holdings of Japanese 5-1/2%
conversion loan of 1930, and are anxious to ascertain
if there is any possibility of the bonds being liqui-
dated in their interest.
The Minister would be grateful to the Secretary
JUN 12 1951
of State if he cauld be informed as to the position
HON
FILED
in this matter.
REC 
1948 JUN 4 AM 11 41
CS/V
LCH-OFD UNIT
LH
Anal.
Rov.
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.93)
The Sesretary of state preseste his eomplimeats te the
Koncrable the Misister of Ireland and has the hemer te refer
894.5I BONDHOLDERS/6-248
to the latter's note of Jume 2, 19ss regarding the statks of
Japanese Govermment dollar bends, of whick sme are emesd by
Irish nationals.
It will be appresiated that the Department is met mew
in a position to state what provisions, if any, affesting susk
obligations may be contained in the Pease Treaty with Japes.
or what arrangements may be made for payment of slaims arising
from the war. As the Minister kmows, there will be many claims
and demands against Japan and Japamese natienals, of whick
sush obligations as those to whioh the Minister refers will
probably eonstitute emly a mall part.
Several years age there was sreated is the Waited states
the Foreign Bondholders Pretestive Coumeil, Dmeerperated, to
serve as a eentrel representative beey for heldere of fereige
govesmeest
CSA

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.88)
2
一
ta the tited states. Altheugh the Cometl me atelian 
the emeeuragement of the Dapartest, it epesetes  ite m
reapensibility in semenbet the sme mser as dess the tritick
Couneil of tihe Corporatiem of Pereige Bendhelders, Limited, im
connsetion with sterling bende of fereign geveramsats flemted
in the British markst. The Department assists the Coumeil, as
representative of Amerieen helders of fereigs gevermmsst emé
goverment-guarenteed obligations, to the extent it properly
can, nesessarily reserving te iteelf, hemsver, fall freedem of
astiom in all respests in axy giren case.
It has been the practise of the Amerieam Comsil, is me-
gotisting settlements of default situations, to comsider that
the benefits of its settlements should be enjeyed by all helders.
regardless of mtionality. It is axpested that, to the estest
it can do so, the Coumeil will purswe the me pollay in the se
of the Japansse dollar bonds.
In crdimary eiresmstanese the Departesss leeks witk faver
pon the paliey of the Coumsil deseribed is the preesting yose
grapk. It will be apprestated, hemever, that, se a resute of

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.88)
-8-
may in cortain instasees comsider it adrisable or resspesry theé
special preesdures be established, and it mast reesrve to sesstr
full liberty to mest these situstione is susk mmer as as bo
lieves to be mest appropriate. It may be said, movertheless.
that the Department kmows now of me reasen that a beme fide
Irish owner whe purehased Japanese Govermment deller beade prier
to the war and held them contimeeusly thereafter, may met apest.
so far as the Department is concerned, the seme treatment fer
his bonds as that accorded to similar bonds held by Ameriemm
oitisens.
Department of state,
Washingten,
July 6, 1948
a96.51 Bendheldere/0-248
m
NA
FrcCorliss:ms
6/22/48
BC
grog
JUL 8 1948 P.M.

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.93)
JUN21948
In reply refer to
1 894.51 Bondholders
/11-2147
My dear Mr. Kellogg:
894.51
Reference is made to your letter of Movember 2l.
1947, and to the Department's aoknonledgment of
December 18, 1947 relative to certain Imperial Japanese
P
Government dollar bonds issued in 1930 and due in 1965,
and to certain German bonds which you do not deseribe.
In connection with the German bonds referred te by
you, the information contained in your letter is not
aufricient to enable the Department to make satisfestory
reply. Accordingly, it is suggested that you inform the
Depertment as to the exact name of the obligor, the rates
of interest, the dates of 1ssue and maturity, the eur-
rency in which payable, and the face value. Upon reseipt
of this data, the Department will give further considera-
tion to your inquiry relative to these bonds.
A definitive reply regarding the Imperial Japanese
Government dollur bonds is not now possible, but the
following may be helpful to your understanding of the
Department's position with respect to such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreigm
bonds is primarily a private transaction into which the
purchaser entera after caloulation of the risks invokted.
In case of default en dollar bonds issued or guaranteed
by governmental entities, it is not the practiee of the
Department to negetiate directly for Ameriean holders,
but it does endeavor to.render such assistamee as it
properly can to such holders or their representatives.
IS
Bondholders
A
A
b
Mr. J. B. Kellogg, Vice-President,
h
City Bank & Trust Company,
Matchez, Mississippi.
TCH
e
1t
eet

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Beadholders Pretective Coumsil, Imeorporated, 98 Bread
Street, New York, New Yerk, whieh was ergenised several
Although it was established with the emeeuregemsmt ef
the Department, the Couneil aets on its owm respeasi-
bility. Some time ago, at the request of the Geamsil,
the Department tramsmitted to the United States Peliti-
eal Adviser to the Supreme Commander fer the Allied
Powers, at Tokyo, a somplete statement regarding the
dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by Japanese gevera-
mental entities. This statemeat was sent fer the
appropriate sestiom of the Staff of the Supreme Ceme
priate in the protection of the Americam interest
involved. The Department believes that the Coumeil is
mindful of the interests of Ameriean helders of smek
obligations and that it will, when oseasiom effmes, take
such steps as it considers to be to the advantag or the
holders. You may wish to write to the Coumeil In eom-
neotion with the bonds mantiomed by you.
It will be appreeiated that the Department is net
in a position to state now what provisions, if any,
affecting such obligations, may be ineluded in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provision for alaims
arising from the war may be made. As you doubtless
know, there will be many claims and demands agaikst
Japan, and against Japanese municipalities and persons,
of whioh such obligations as those to whieh you refer
will probably constitute but a small part.
Mevertheless, if you are an Ameriean eitizem, the
Department will make a reeord, for sueh future somsidere-
tiom as may be found to be appropriate, of the infer-
mation submitted by you with regard to your holdimes.
It is requested, therefore, that you inform the Depart-
ment of the manner (whether by birth or maturalizatiom)
and date of your acquisition of American oitizenship.
If citizenship was acquired by naturalization, the name
and location of the court granting citizenship, and the
number

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
mamber of the relative certirisate should also be
given. Ir it should later be found mdvisable far
individual holders to take further steps, dse ameanse
ment will be made in the publieppress.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Jamea 0, Corliss, Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
2009
FN:VWJones:rt
5/14/48
OFD
2
CR
JUN 1. 1948

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.92)
94 51Bodhildis /6-548
DATE DUE
FILE NOG
DATE OF DOC.
D0C9
SECURITY
CLASS.
DATECHARGED
113
TO/FROM
USURES
CHARGE TO
Onelice
SYMBO
Form DS-933a (9-1-51)
(Signature)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.84)
Rit
100 Prospect ave.
Hackensackny
FN 89+.51 Bondhulders
Jaume st=1948
/2-1648
Dabartment of State
Mr. James l. Corliss
assistant chief
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/6-548
Bwar Sivi
For the infomation raquested
by you negarding the five one
d
thoresand dollad bonds of the
esvaat Consolidated 9lectrie Powen
Comsany of gapan; mumtras
392-4238-8498-8873-12845
which I hold, I purchased them
from Reilly Brock sto ShiladelphiaPa
bokers int the fall of 19nt at
foar and nterast
no unltrast leas twan
paid since ang11941.
I and an American
cilizan by birtte, bom in astoria L.
new york noombar 71871
68
1951
FILED
CS/
2onaholaers
FiF
<
 vor
-548
L101.

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.85)
ade in U.S. Interual Revruce
woice from 189s to 1920 nesigned
asan dgrant.
velp
Thanking you for your
consideration and faoor, I dm
yourstrily.
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/6-548
220
894,512ondholdens
JUN12 1951
FILED
FLF
B
vor
Lisl.

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.88)
JUN 28 1948
Ia rply refer to
094.81 Bendhelders
/8-1648
BONDHOLDERS/6-548
My dear Mr. Graham:
The receipt is asknowledged ef yeur letter dated
June 5, l94a, containing oertain additienal infermation
relative to five $l000.00 Great Consolidated MMestrie
Pewer Company bonds whieh you held.
An indioated in its letter of Nay 24, 194s, the
Department will make a reserd, for sueh future eemaider-
atien as may be found to be apprepriate, of the data
submitted by you with regard to your heldings.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Jameé 0. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Divxsion of Finaneial Affairs
894.51 P2ond Rde
FCH
.
V
Mr. Douglas Graham,
3
100 Prospest Ávenue,
Nackensack, New Jersey.
✓
7-54
5194P
加
19
6/24/48
s/s-oR
FN:VVJoNes:gwe

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.94)
JUN71948
894.5
Ia reply refer to
1M 894.51 Bondholders
/10-2147
Dillon, Read & Company,
BONDHOLDERS/6-748
Nassau & Cedar Streets,
New York 5, New York.
Birs:
Reference is made to your letter dated Oetober 21,
1947, meknowledged by the Department on November 12, 1947.
relative to the 7% Great Consolidated Klestrie Pewer
Company, Limited, dollar bonds due 1n 1944, the 6-1/2%
Great Consolidated Electric Power Company, Limited,dellar
bonds due in 1950, and the 6-1/2% Shinyetsu Eleetrie Power
Company, Limited, dollar bonds due in 1952, for whieh you
act as fisoal agent in the United States. You state that
in 1943 a law was passed in Japan providing that the mort-
gages seouring these bonds should besome null and void.
Tou further state that it would be greatly appreeiated if
the United States Government would instruot the Japamese
Government to restore the mortgages as sesurity for the
dollar bonds.
The Department is giving careful study to this, as
well as other aspects of the position of American-owned
Japenece bonds, but thus far no definite decision has been
x21
reached relative to the matter. Some time ago, the Depart-
ment transmitted to the Reparations and Restitution Delega-
C
ss
tion, at Tokyo, a request by the Foreign Bondholders
Protective Counoil, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, Mew Yerk,
New York, that mortgages formerly seouring the various
Japanese utility dollar bond issues be reinstated. In for-
~wm
warding this request to the Delegation, the Department asked
that it indicate its views concerning the feasibility and
appropriateness of this proposed measure for the proteetion
h
of the Amerioan interest involved. The views expressed by
you relative to this question will be given careful sonsider-
ation by the Department in conneetion with the study men-
tioned above.
Sineerely yours,
For the Sepretary of State:
CR
4 1948 P
Jamma C. Corliss, Assistant Chier
wwa
Division of Finansial Affairs
FN:VNJones:rt
5/28/48
1=Dxx

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.94)
Cap
JUN71948
In reply refer to
VE 894.51 Bondholders
/11-1247
My dear Mr. Pratt:
BONDHOLDERS/6-748
Referense is made to your letter dated Mevember 12,
1947, acknowledged by the Department on Mevember Ih,
1947, relative to the Ujigawa Eleetrie Power Company,
Limited, 7% dollar bonds due im 1945 for which yem are
Fisoal Agent. You state that pursuant to "Law Relating to
the Treatment of Foreign Bonds" promulgated Mareh 15. 1943,
the mortgages on the property securing these bonds besame
null and void. You request that the Civil Property Gus-
todian Division of the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers be authorized through the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers to make demand on the Japanese Geverm-
ment for the reconstitution of the said mortgages.
The Department is giving careful study to this, as
well as other aspects of the position orf Amerieam-owmed
Japanese bonds, but thus far no definite decision has beem
reached relative to the matter. Some time ago, the Depart-
ment transmitted to the Reparations and Restitution Dele-
gation, at Tokyo, a request by the Foreign Bondhelders
Protestive Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York,
New Tork, that mortgages formerly sesuring the various
Japanese utility dollar bondsissues be reinstated. In for-
warding this request to the Delegation, the Departmemt
S
asked that it indicate its views coneerning the feasibility
and appropriateness of this proposed measure for the pre-
A1
tection of the American interest involved. The views
expressed by you relative to this question will be given
eareful consideration by the Department in conmeetion with
8
the study mentioned above.
()
Sineerely yours,
LH
For the Seeretary of State:
2un~
948 P.M.
olders
Mr. Stewart C. Pratt, Vice President,
The National City Bank of New York,
22 William Street,
New York 15, New York.
OFDOS
FN:VWJones:rt
6/1/48

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.96)
OL 21948
Im reply refer to
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/6-1148
 04.51 Bondholders
/0-1148
My dear Mr. Bherin:
Refcrence is made to your letter dated June 11, 194s..
X
relative to certain City of Yokohama and Good Hope Steel
and Iron Corporation, Germany, dollar bonds whioh you held.
A definitive reply to your inquiry ls not possible at
the present time, but the following may be helpful to you
understanding of the Department's position with reepeet to
such obligetions.
The Department considers that investment in foreigm.
bonds 1s primarily a private transaction into which the
purcheser enters after calculation of the risks involve.
In case of default on dollar bonde issued by or guaranteed
by governmental entities, it is not the practioe of the
Department to negotiate direotly for American holders, but
it does endeavor to render such assistance as it properly
can to suchholders or their represontatives. In this con-
neotion ettention mey be called to the Foreign Bondholders
Protective Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York,
New York, whioh was organized several years ago to serve as
a centrel representative body. Although it was established
on its own responsibility. Some time ago, at the request
894.57
dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by Japanese governmental
entities. This statement was sent for the information and
use of the Political Adviser and of the appropriate seetion
of the
Mr. John F. Sherin,
70 Rutledge Road,
Belmont 78, Massachusetts.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.97)
of the staff of the Supreme Gommander, and fer swek sstiem
as might be sonsidered appropriate in the pretestiom of
the Ameriean interest involved. The Department believes
that the Counell is mindral of the interests of Ameriesm
holders of sueh obligations and that it will, whem eeeassem
affers, take much steps as it considers to be to the a-
vantage of the holders. You may wlsh to write te the
Counoll in conneotion with the City of Yokohame bonds mem
tioned by you.
The bonds issued by the Good Hope Steel and Irok
Corporation, Germany, are in a somewhat different category.
These are obligations of a private corporation and are not
guaranteed by a governmental entity. In suoh cases, it is
assumed that holders will be prepared, if neoessary, to
avail themselves of the usual methods to secure enforeement
of their rights when resort to such measures may be pree-
ticable. The Department is unable to state now when this
may bo.
It will be aporeolated that the Department is not in
a position to state now what provisione, if any, affeeting
such obligations, may be contained in the Peace Treaties
with Geraany and Japan, or what provision for claims aris-
ing from the war may be made. As you doubtless know, there
will be many claiws and demands against Germany and Japan.
and against municipalities and persons in those countries,
of which such obligations as those to which you refer will
probably conetitute but a smali part.
Nevertheless, the Department will make a record, for
such ruture consideration as may be found to be ap ropriate
of the information submitted by you with regard to your helangs
ings. You should also inform the Department of the intorest
rate of the bonds, the dates of issue and maturity, the
manner and date of acquisition of the bonde, the purohase
price, the last payment of interest thereon, and the mamner
(whether by birth or naturalization) and date of your
acquisition of Amerioan citizenship. If citizenship was
aoquired by naturalization, the name and location of the
court granting oitizenship, and the number of the relative
certifioate should also be given. Ir it should later be.
found advisable for individual holderse to take further
steps, due announoement will be made in the public press.
Meamwh1le,

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.90)
Keaavhile, your attention is ealled to the fest
the Ofrice ef Alien Preperty ls entertaining debs alaím
ef Amerlean eitisens against eertain Japansse and Germ
assets vested by that Ocrsse. The Bepertment is met me
besn vested, but this information as well as ether detalls
relative to the matter, may be obtained by you from the
Office of Alien Property Department of Justice, Washingtens
D. C., or from any United States Attorney.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
James C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Divialon of Financial Affaire
Kw
JUL 8 1948P.M.
w8
FN:VNJones:gwe
6/29/48

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.92)
JUN251948
FN:gomo:gr
DEPPRENT OF STATE
JUNE 11, 1948.
AC
TO THE LEGAL ADVISER,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DEAR SIR:
THE UNDERSIGNED HOLDS THREE $I,OOO.OO
BONDS, CITY OF YOKOHAMA, JAPAN AND TWO $I, OOO.OO
VR
BONDS, GOOD HOPE STEEL CORPORATION, GERMANY.
BONDHOLDERS/6-1148
ANY ADVIOE OR INFORMATION YOU MAY BE IN
862.51 Bond)
A POSITION TO GI VE WILL BE BREATLY APPREOIATED.
YOURS RESPEOTFULLY,
JOHN F. BHERIN
79 RUTLEDGE ROAD,
BELMONT 78, MASSAOHUSETTS.
FILED
CS/ A
DCB - CLAIMS TINGT
Anal. P
9pm
Rev.
Cot.
Dist.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.95)
ROBERT DOW HAMILTON
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELOR AT LAW
2630 LEVEQUE-LINCOLN TOWER
COLUMBUS I5, OHIO
TELEPHONE MAIN 3319
July 7, 1948
gUL 9 1949
FN Bshermm:ge
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FN 894.51
BONDHOLDERS/7-748
My dear Mr. Corliss:
I wish to acknowledge receipt of, and express my gratitude for,
your letter of June 18th. I am following the suggestion made
therein regarding the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, and
am communicating with them. The other information submitted in
your letter was extremely helpful and enlightening.
I wish to advise in response to your request that the serial numbers
of the bonds held by my client, Mr. Shafer, are as follows:
Imperioal Japanese Government Bonds -- M125263, M67767, M81782, n15518,
M134014, M134015, M15930, M15933, M15934, M15935, M73179, M77068, M77069,
M115677, M126534, M140492; Oriental Development Company Bonds — D855,
D868, M1444, M4146, M4147, M4148, M4149, M4150, M6944, M8289, M8290,
D732, D1094, M3173, M4237, M10433,M565,M9088, M11771, M12627, M06060
M16061, M841, M842,M843, M844, M845, M846, M847, M2975, M2976, M2977,
M2978, M3342, M3344, M3345, M6475, M7860, M4068, 9177, M1978, M9241,
M9242, M9243, M18789, M3343.
I wish to further advise that Mr. Shafer acquired his American citizen-
ship by birth, being born at Findlay, Ohio, and that he acquired the
8
bonds by purchase a few years subsequent to their issue.
Sincerely yours,
Rbbert Dow/Hamilton
Mr. James C. Corliss
tholders 7-748
Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.
CSN
FL1+
RDH/mc

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.93)
JUL 141948
My dear Mr. Hamilton:
This 1s to auknowledge receipt of your letter
dated July 7, l948, submitting the information requested
with regard to the holdings of your olient, Mr. R. N.
Shafer.
This inform tion will be plaoed in the Department's
records for such future use as may be found to be
appropriate, as indicated in the Department's letter to
you of June 18, 1948.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
James C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Divibion of Finanoial Affairs
Mr. Robert Dow Hamilton,
Attorney and Counselor At Law,
28s0 Leveque-Lineoln Tower,
Columbus 15, Ohis.
ER
JUL 14 194
F1+
D UNIT
FN: Bherman: gwe
7/12/48
s/s-on

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.95)
FILE NUMBER
SPECIFIC PAPER DESIRED
DIVISION AND PERSON
REQUESTING PAPER
detter From
A. Waskam
Robert Dow
Jouly 20, 'r8
Hamilton
July?1918
ENTER DATE AND NAME OF
PERSON MAKING CATCH
Shorld fe 894.51

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.95)
FORM DS-516
5-13-47
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
CLERK'S
FILE NUMBER
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT
CHARGE TO-
DATE OF CHARGE
INITIALS
Fw 894.51 Bond holdere
letter to Rotert
74
Fr
7-1548
17-748
Dow tamilton

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.92)
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER
OFFICE OF ALIEN PROPERTY
F-39-995
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
HGH:PB:SL:mm
WASHINGTON 25. D. C..
207-b
C
DIVISIONFURIED REAS
GOO OLIC A BIRS
Lr. George . Baker, Acting Associate Chief,
AUG M948
Division of Occupicd Areas, Economic Affairs
894.51 B0NDHOLDERS/8-548
Department of State
DEPARTMENISTAT
Mashin ton 25, D. C.
Dear r. Beter:
In 1942 tnis Office too: vestiny action with respect to the
Hew Tork ranch of Citura . Co., a Japanese corporation of Tolyo, Japan.
The records of seid Branch disclosed that it is the owmer of certain
United Siates Treasury bonds d bonds of American corporations with a
Tace value of 78,Ou0., which were taken from the Mew York Branch to
Tuenos Aires, Ar entina on or about January 15, 1941 by a former em-
ployee, Y. Takeuchi. It appears that Tateuchi placed the bonds in
safe deposit box #D-32 of the Buenos ires Branch of the Hational City
bank of ow York. It epeare thut he rented said box for one year at
50 pesos.
ill you be so kind as to request of the State Department
representative in Duenos Aires that they ascertain whether the above-
mentioned safe deposit box, or aigy other box, is maintained by Takeuchi
a, is possible,  ether the onis are still in his possession, either
in a rox or elsevnere.
The L.mcrican bonds which Takeuchi took to Buenos Aires are
as follows:
20,O00. face valne o nited States Treasury bonds
240
9,Oo0. face value of Southern Bell Telephone Company bonds
10,O00. face valuc of nion Pacific Railroad bonds
88
10, Oo.. race value o Louisville and Nashville tailroad bonds
10, O00. Facc valne of exas Coapany bonds
10,O00. face valne of nited States Steel Corporation bonds
Rcv.
TRT
2,O00. face value of Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago and
St. Louis Railroad bonds
Cat
7,Oc0. face valne oi Pennsylvania Hailroad bonds.
-548
In addition to these American bonds, Takeuchi also took to
Euenos Aires and placed in the sane box, 10,000. face value of 4l

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.95)
l.r. George W. Baker
-2-
August 5, 1948
Economic Affairs
bonds of the Argentine Republic due 1948.
The muibers o: these bonds are as follows: M-15148/9, M-343,
1-20134, M-13484, 1-15373 and M-3 54/7. The numbers of the American
bonds are not iven inas.nch as presumably they will be of no aid to
the inquiry in Juenos Lires.
Your ain in this .atter will be reatly appreciated.
Very truly yours,
DavidL Bazdon
 David L. Bazelon
Assistant Attorney eneral
ircctor, Cifice of Alien Property

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.93)
FW: TOCnlss
ACTION
is assigned to
FN
RECEVED
AUG 16 33
August 9,1948
NDHOLDERS/8-948
Department of State
Washingtom, D.C.
ARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Sirs:
Attentiom: Legal Adviser
In a recent commumicatiom from the Office of
Aliem Property, it was suggested that I write
your department im commestiom with a City of
Yokohama 6% Bond, due lo6l, whieh I hold.
Amy informaticm you may offer pertaiming to
the above security will be appresiated.
Yours very truly,
Marma O' Caleahon
CS/V
Miss Norma O'Callaham
533-20th Street
Samta Momica,Califormia
894.
sr
FTLED
y

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.94)
SEP1
In reply refer te
FN 994.51 Bendhelders/
51 BONDHOLDERS/8-948
8-948
My dear Miss O'Callahan:
Reference is made to your letter dated August 9,
1948, acknewledged by the Departmont on August 18,
1948, relative te a 6% City ef Yekehama bend due in
1961 which you held.
A definitive reply to yeur inquiry is net pessible
at the present time, but the fellewing may be helpful
to yeur understanding ef the Department's pesisi   with
respect to such ebligations.
The Department censiders that investment in fereigm
bends is primarily a private transactien inte which the
purchaser enters after osloulatien of the risks invelved.
In case of default on dellar bends issued by er guaranteed
by gevernmental entities, it is net the praetiee ef the
Department te negetiate direotly fer American helders, but
it does endeavor to render such assistance as it preperly
can to such helders er their representatives. In this een-
neotien attentien may be called te the Fereign Bendhelders
Preteotive Ceuncil, Incorperated, 90 Bread Street, New York,
New Yerk, whioh was erganized several years age te serve as
a central representative bedy. Altheugh it was established
with the encouragement of the Department, the Ceunoil aets
on its ewn respensibility. Seme time age, at the request
of the Counoil, the Department transmitted te the United
States Politioal Adviser to the Supreme Cemmander fer the
68
Allied Pewers, at Tekye, a complete statement regarding the
dellar bends issued er guaranteed by Japanese gevernmental
entities. This statement was sent fer the infermatien and
use of the Pelitical Adviser and of the apprepriate seetien
5
FL14
of the
Miss Nerma O'Callahan,
11
CS/V
on
533 Twentieth Street,
Santa Monica, Califernia.
8
6
6

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
of the Staff of the Supreme Cemmamder, and fer suck asttem
as might be censidered apprepriate ia the preteetien ef
the Ameriean interest invelved. The Department believes
that the Couneil is mindful of the interests of Ameriemm
helders ef such obligatiens and that it will, whem eeeasiem
offers, take such steps as it censiders te be te the
advantage of the helders. Yeu may wish to write to the
Ceuncil in cenneotien with the bend mentiened by you.
It will be appreclated that the Department is met
in a pesitien te state new what previsiens, if any.
affeoting such ebligatiens, may be centained im the Pease
Treaty with Japan, er what previsien fer claims arising
frem the war may be made. Às yeu deubtless knew, there
will be many claims and demands againet Japan, and
against Municipalities and persems in that coumtry, ef
which such obligatiens as that to which yeu refer will
prebably constitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department will make a recerd,
for such future censideratien as may be found te be
apprepriate, ef the infermatien submitted by you with
regard te your hoadings. You should alse inform the
Department of the manner and date of aequisitien of the
bend, the purohase priee, the last payment of interest
thereen, and the manner (whether by birth er naturalizatiem)
and date of your acquisition of Amerlean citizenship.
If citizenship was acquired by naturalizatiem, the name
and lecatien of the court granting citizenship, and the
number of the relative certifieate sheuld be given. If
1t should later be found advisable fer individual
helders te take further steps, due announeement will be
made in the publio press.
Sincerely yours,
Fer the Secretary of State:
AUG 1.J48PM
James C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Diviston er Financial Affairs
XRXXXXXXXXANXXXXXXX
OF
CFD:F.:VJos/Je
/55/49

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.96)
FW:Jceness
RECEIVED
Law Offices
 Curry & Farrell
520 Locust Street
McKeesport,Pa.
ATRRES
J. Paul Farrell
DCR
August 20, 1948
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/8-2048
Seoretary of State
Washington, D. C.
DEPA
For the attention of Benedict English
Assistant Legal Adviser for
International Claims
Dear Sir:
Mrs. Frances Grace Caughey, of 1714 Coursin Street,
MoKeesport, Pennsylvania, is the owner of the following Japanese
dollar bond:-
NC
Ujigawa Electric Power Co., Ltd., Bond No. M4473, in the
amount of 1,000.00, first mortgage 7%, sinking fund gold
bond, due March 15, 1945.
She has been advised to file a claim with this office
in order that her rights under this bond may be protected in the
future.
On her behalf, the claim is hereby filed. If your
office prefers that claims be filed on a special form, we will be
very glad to comply with your desires if you will send us a blank
form as soon as forms are available.
aul
Geel
J. Paul Farrell
JUN12 1951
894.51 Bondholdrs
ral
FILED
CS/V
8-2048

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.98)
SEP 291948
In reply refer to
FN 894.51 Bendhelders/
8-2048
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/8-2048
My dear Mr. Farrell:
Reference is made te your letter of August 20
1948, regarding Ujigawa Meetric Pewer Cempany deliar
bend, held by your olient, Mrs. Frances Grace Gaughey,
1714 Coursin Street, MaKeespert, Pennsylvania.
A definitive reply to yeur inguiry is net mow
pessible, but the fellowing may be helpful te yeur
understanding of the Department's pelioy relative to
such ebligatiens.
The Department densiders that investment in fereigm
bends is primarily a private transaetien inte whieh the
purchaser enters after calculatien ef the risks invelved.
In the case of default en dellar bends issued by er
guaranteed by gevernmental entities, as are the Japanese
bends mentiened in yeur letter, it is net the praetice
of the Department to negetiate directly fer Amerioan
helders, but it dees endeaver te render suoh assistance
as it preperly can te such helders er their representa-
tives. In this cennectien attention may be called te the
Fereign Bendhelders Preteotive Council, Incerperated,
90 Bread Street, New Yerk, New Yerk, which was erganized
several years age to serve as a central representative
bedy. Although it was established with the eneeurage-
ment of the Department, the Counoil acts on its ewm
respensibility. Seme time age, at the request of the
Counoil, the Department transmitted te the United States
Pelitical Adviser te the Supreme Cemmander fer the Allied
Pewers, at Tekye, a cemplete statement regarding the
dellar bends issued er guaranteed by Japanese gevernmental
entities.
Mr. J. Paul Farrell
c/e Curry and Farrell,
520 Lecust Street,
CS/V
MoKeesport, Pennsylvania.

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
entities. This statement was Cent fer the infermatiem
and use er the Pelitical Adviser and or the apprepriate
sestien of the Staff of the Supreme Cemmander, and fer
such actien as might be censidered apprepriate in the
preteetien of the American intersst invelved. The
Department believes that the Ceuneil is mindrul of the
interests ef Ameriean helders of such ebligatiems and
that it will, when eccassien effers, take suck steps
as it mensiders te be to the advantage ef the helders.
Yeu may wish te write to the Ceuncil in cenneetien
with the bends mentiened by you.
A shert time age the Department transmitted to
the Reparations and Restitution Delegation, at Tekye,
a request of the Fereign Bendhelders Preteetive
Council that the mertgages securing the verieus dellar
utility issues, including these listed byyyeu, be
reinstated. In ferwarding the Couhcil's letter to the
Delegatien the Department requested the views of the
Delegation cencerning the matter. Thus far, a reply
has net yet been received, but when one reachel the
Department the matter wili be discussed with the
Fereign Bendhelders Pretective Ceunoil. Yew may wish,
therefere, te keep in teuch with the Ceuneil and ask
it te tranamit to yeu any infermation whioh it may
receive relative to this aspect of the Japanese utility
1ssues.
It will be appreciated that the Department is net
in a pesitien to state new what previsiens, if any.
affecting such obligations, may be centained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what previsien fer claims
arising frem the wary may be made. As yol deubtless
knew, there will be many claims and demands against J
Japan, and against Japanese municipalities and persens,
of which such ebligatiens as these te which yeu refer
will prebably constitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department will be glad te make
a recerd of the heldings of your client fer sueh future
use as may be apprepriate. It is suggested that
Mrs. Caughey indicate fer the Department's recerds
the dates en which she purchased these securities and
the prioe she paid therefer. She sheuld alse indicate
the

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.95)
the date and maaner (whether by birth er maturalisatism)
of her aequisitien ef Ameriean citisemship, amd if
oitizenship was asquired by naturalisatiem, she sheald
state the name and lesation ef the eourt granting it
and the mumber of the relative certifisate.
Your attentien is called to the announememt by
the Atterney General ever a year age te the effest that
Ameriean orediters er Japanese debters may file debt
olaims against specifio assets ef suchk debters that may
infermatien regarding this matter may be obtaimed frem
the Ofrice er Alien Preperty, Washingten, D. C., er
frem any United States Atterney.
Sincerely yours,
Fer the Acting Seoretary of State:
James C. Cerliss
Assistant Chief
Division of Fimancial Affairs
OFD
SE

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTIO
535-20th Street
Samta Momiea,Califormia
September 16,1948
oup
894.51
SE1 1948
The Seeretary of State
SEP221948
Washingtom 25, D.C.
Reycydustes10/22/48
Dear Sir:
Divisiom of Fimaneial Affairs
Refer;F 894.51 Bondholdere
BONDHOLDERS/9-1648
8-948
The informatiom sontaimed in your letter of September
lst is muck appreciated.
The bomd in questicm is the City of Yokohama % bond for $lo00,
due December 1,l9el and was aequired by me in May.
196s throngh provisiom of my mother's will. This
seserity has beem im the possessicm of my family simee
May,l929, having beem purehased at that time for $965.00.
The last payment of interest was om Jume 1,l94l.
My certifieate of maturalisaticm,#zezllel, was issmed
by the Umited States Distriet Court of Washimgtom at
Seattle on Jamuary 26,1929.
Yours very truly,
Aoma O' Caecahar
Miss Norm O' Callaka 
MAY 261951
FILED
CS/A
9-1648

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.85)
OCT 2810
FN
51
 dear Wiss O'Gallakens
BONDHOLDERS/9-1648
Roterense Lo made to your Lotter of Septenber 16, 2968,
Sinssrely yours,
Pee the Leting Seeretasy of States
Shago C. Corlsea
Divistan of rimeneial Aftatre
CS/A
894.51
6
OCT 27 1948P.M
Gallfermla
10/22/48
OFD:FWJO0er11s9s0d

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.83)
UTACTION
iddtsin
OFDFN
MRS. N. EARLE CRAWFORD
廿1007
BLOOMSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA
fin
4045.2nd st
894.
Sapt. 20-1948
2a3
the State Departurnt
ach 10/1/48
5
Washingy-J.C.
aeth
π
mas such a shing viuce the orar
口
m
Ns
as this oninlae direlopment to-
R
shee
ausmer is Enclored-
-20
Wioler the National Cily Bank y
C
n.y. and the augrrer issueloca
fam
As they racher advised
Cater
witilg you aud rice
writh the Joreign Brndhoeders

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.90)
MRS. N. EARLE CRAWFORD
BLOOMSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA
Prolictive Connecl.
Hire is how got this hond.
My morhir-in-cair diid early
had bought shis boudd ine triekes
Barrè, Pa. - her hoce torre. Souce
thive bifre she died (ara guees,
two yuars bifoe) she gam my.
husband sriry thing phe had ie
her loik box, and it mas maiuly
a crllection  aoubtfal stocks and
aboch
bouds like the Eucloaed-
the hime my hosband gor this, our
Fish nait mouk could not find

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.86)
MRS. N. EARLE CRAWFORD
n had any value -
aud 'irs
probably doit noiw.
Nomner,
in July y shis yoar my nuoband
died-and lin our bor ar bauck,
possible value.
My Alesbaid
bud S had soiry shring in joich
ormaratip so S suppose
shis
boud bilrugp h mue as
mhad
ohir Qne.
That ausmres
"Where did you gut this foud?"

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.86)
MRS. N. EARLE CRAWFORD
fmas baru im Bhornebug, a. n
Sept.18-188o- 2hat ausrnres
"Are you a citigen"
A. fiet puolably the thing th de
was send you this whole thing-
Save Enclvsing rmoney
for
returu y paide by regrotued
mail dnd fshauk you very
much-
yours buly-
Mrs n. Earle Cranfondv
404E. 2nd st
En w. att EP
41,00 enc.8P

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.88)
FALUABLE ENCLOSURE
From Mre. N. Earle Craurfoed. Deopator
Dated 9-20-48
Letter
1.00 Cuery
Noto
(Geaoription of enelosure)
Japunns Bone
Hemorandom
kaived in
Division
ofrice
by
1110 Fiber894.51 Bondhaldud/9-2048
am
(Divislonal Receipt-sign and roturn to Dc/A-Rm 1167 r)

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
THE NATIONAL CITY BANK
OF NEW YORK
NEW YORK September 17, 1948
Trust Department
22 William Street
Mrs. N. Earle Crawford
404 E. Second Street
Bloomburg, Pennaylvania
Dear Madam:
Receipt is acknowledged of your recent letter requesting information
retarding Oriental Development Company, Limited 6% External Loan Debenture
Bond due March 15, 1953.
It would appear from your letter that you have in your possession a
coupon from this bond maturing November 15, 194l. Although we gave funds
in our possession for the payment of interest coupons due November 15,
194l and prior thereto with respest to the bonds of this issue, the
Treasury Department has denied our application for a license permitting
us to disburse such funds. It may be that if you were to make an
application through the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia stating
(1) that you are an American citizen (2) where the bond has been held
since prior to the beginning of the late war and (3) why you have not
collected the interest coupon, the license may be issued permitting us
to make payment of the November 15, 1941 coupon to you.
The obligor defaulted in the payment of interest due March 15,
1942 and subsequently on the above described Debentures and in the pay-
ment of the Sinking Fund ins tallment due March 165, 1942 and a11 subsoquent
installments and no funds have been received since to be applied to the
service of these Bonds.
Following the outbreak of war the transaction of any business
in conneotion with the obligations of enemy corporations was suspended
and prohibited under the Trading with the Enemy Act.
Bonds of this issue were guaranteed as to principal and interest
by endorsement of the Imperial Japanese Government and certain prop-
erties of the obligor and the guarantor were vested by the Office of
Alien Property, Department of Justice (Predecessor Alien Property
Custodian) Washington 25, D. C. and in our capacity as Fisoal Agent
for said Bonds we filed a claim against the obligor with the Office
of Alien Property in an endeavor to protect the interests of the
bondholders to the extent possible. We also filed a claim against the
Imperial Japanese Government, as guarantor for the payment of the
prinoipal and interest on these bonds.
We are not, of course, the representative of the bondholders and
do not know whether our claim will be allowed for this reason and accord-
ingly we have sdvised inquiring bondholders that in our opinion it would be

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
advisable for them to file individual claims in respeot of their
holdings. We understand that the original time limit for filing such
olaims has been extended from September 2, l947, and copies of the
Form APC-lc with the relative instruotions regarding the filing of
such claims are obtainable only by the claimant from the Office of
Alien Property, Washington 25, D. C.
Our examination of the index of Vesting Orders with the Office
of Alien Property, Department of Justice, l2o Broadway, New York, N. Y.,
disclosed the following Vesting Orders affecting property of the obligor
and the guarantor:
Vesting Order No. 1095 dated March 22, 1943
1639
n
June 10, 1943
5625
n
January 10, 1946
P-5
n
January 25, 1946
P-27
April 22, 1946
P-28
April 22, 1946
P-33
May 10, 1946
P-42
n
May 20, 1946
P-43
n
May 20, 1946
P-49
May 29, 1946
7174
n
July 22, 1946
8480
n
March 20, 1947
No representation is made by us that these constitute all Vesting Ordors
affecting property of either The Oriental Development Company Limited or
The Imperial Japanese Government and for any further information in
connection therewith we suggest that you write the Secretary of the Office
of Alien Property Custodian, Washington 25, D. C. in accordance with
Instruction "D" appearing in the Instructions for Form APC-lC.
Up to the present time no arrangements have been made for resuming
service on any of the Japanese Dollar Loans. The question of such debts
is having the consideration of the Foreign Bondholders Proteotive Counoil,
Inc. 90 Broad Street, New York 4, New York, and we, as Fisoal Agent, have
brought the matter of the debt to the attention of the State Department,
Washington, D. C.
When we advised the State Department of the existence of the
above-described Debentures and of the interest of American holders therein,
we requested that this information be communicated to the Chief of the
Economio and Scientific Control Section of Allied Headquarters in Japan
or other appropriate authority o that they be informed of the interests
of the Debentureholders.
In its reply the State Department advised that it understood that
the Foreign Bondholders Protective Counoil was interesting itself in the
situation. For your information, the Council was formed wi th the
encouragement of the State Department in Washington for the purpose of
protecting the interests of holders of certain foreign dollar bonds and
the Council requests holders of defaulted dollar bonds issued either by

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3
foreign governments and govermental subdivisions or by sorporatieme
whose bonds are guaranteed by foreign governments and govermmental
subdivisions, to register d th the Counoil their names, addresses
and a description of the issues held by them and the face amount
thereof in order that the Council may keep them advised of the develep
ments concerning the particular issues of which they are the holders.
The State Department further states that it would be glad to
make a record in its files, for such consideration as may be appro-
priate, of any information which an American holder of dollar bonds
may send to it regarding his bonds. Such information should contain
the pertinent facts as to the. identification and desoription of the bonds
(especially the currency in which payable, and the date of issue) their
purchase price, the manner and date of their acquisition by him, the
last payment of interest thereon, and the manner (whether by birth or
naturalization) and date of his acquisition of American oitisenship.
You may therefore wish to register your name and address as a holder
of the a bove-desoribed bonds with both the State Department and the
Foreign Bondholders Protective Council.
In accordance with your request we return ir. Dubbs' letter
of August 23rd herewith.
Very truly yours,
Nelson Stuart
Trust Officer.

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.99)
44lst CIC Detaohment
GHQ - FEC - APO #600
% PM - San Francisoo, Calif.
23 August 1948
Dear Mom and Family:
Just a brief message from the Dubbs family to you all.
First, I want you to know how sorry we all felt concerning the
sad news in your recent bereavement. "Pop" was a swell person
and wasgreatly admired by many people. I can truthfully say that
I was glad to have known him.
Now, concerning the information regarding the bond in the
Oriental Development Company. The first thing that I did was to go
to the Tokyo Branch of the National City Bank of New York. There
the mamger told me that the best thing to do would be for you to
write to that Bank in New York City. There they would be able to
tell you the exact value of the bond and would be the proper people
to negotiate the redemption of same.
He also told me to contact a Mr. Blake of the Civil Property
Custodian's office and I did. However, they did not have any ifforma-.
tion concerning this company. They suggested that you write to the
National City Bank at New York and that the bank would probably initiate
a letter to the CPC here and on that basis, they would investigate the
status of the Oriental Development Company. In other words, you as the
holder of the 6% Bond have the authority to request the investigation
on this company. Apparently, no one else has asked for this informa-
tion and that is the reason that they had to give me a negative answer.
I am sorry that I am unable to give you the exact picture,
but that is the way it stands.
At this moment, the water is literally running off my back
because it is so hot. So inview of that, I will stop rambling and
close this letter. Please write to us real often.. If you are interested
in pictures of Japan, contact Nllie and she will show you the ones we
have sent home.
Sincerely
Bill Dubbs

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.98)
Im reply refer to
PN 894.51 Bondholders/
OCT181948
9-2048
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/9-2048
My doar Mrs. Crawford:
Reference is made to your letter of September 20,
1948, and the enolosures thereto, regarding your
Oriental Development Company (Japan) bonds.
The letter of September 17, 1948, addressed to
you by the National City Bank or New York, gave you a
sumnary of the most important developments to date in
this situation. The Department will be glad to make
a record, for such ruture consideration as may be
appropriate, of the information you have furnished
regerding your holdings and your oitizonship. If it
should be found advisable that individual holders take
further steps, other than those they may wish to take
relative to the filing or claims with the Ofrice of
Alien-Property, as desoribed in the letter from the
National City Bunk or New York to you, mentioned above,
the Department will endeavor to have due publioity
given to the fact.
The communications enclosed with your letter are
returned herewith, copies having been made for the
Department's files, and there is returned also the
one-dollar bill whioh you enolosed.
Sincerely yours,
894.51
For the oting Secretary of State:
CS/ A
James C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Division of Finanoial Affairs
Enclosures:
1. Lette of 9-17-48
2. Letter of 8-23-48
3. One dollar bill.
CR
4. Bond.
Mrs. N. Earle Crawfond,
404 E. Sooond Street,
Bloomsburg, Pennsylvanie.
S/S-CR
ORP:IN:JCCorliss:yw
10-13-48
8

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.94)
CES4668
DANIEL I. D'AMICO
ATTORNEY AT LAW
CUMBERLAND, WIS.
October 6th, 1948
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STME 1/-1Y
LEGAL ADVISER
DEPT. OF STATE
DGIR
AC/R
FDforaction 54-C
OCT 26 1948
otment of State
894.51 E
7πl
Washington 25, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Attention: Legal Adviser
Dear Bir:
A Mrs. Conrad Nelson contacted me on September 20th,
BONDHOLDERS/10-648
1948 in reference to a 61% $1000 bond due July 1, 1950, in
the Great Consolidated Electric Power Company, Limited, 1esued
by the Japanese Empire. I wrote on that date to the ofrice of
Alien Property, and for your information enclosed is a copy of
their reply.
Mrs. Nelson had had the bond in a savings deposit
box at Minneapolis, and among her papere was the address of
Dillion, Read & Co., New York, and the City Company or New York,
and as suggested in this correspondence I wrote to the Office
of Alien Property.
It appears that she should have filed a debt claim
prior to August 8, 1948. However, she did not know of this
requirement. She was under the impression as long as she
registered the bond at the time that the government required
all foreign bonds to be registered,that her rights would be
proteoted.
Kindly advise what she should do at this time to
FLED
protect her interest under this bond.
Thank you.
Very truly yours,
CS/A
Kniels
DID:hd
Ec. at EP
DCB-CLAIMB UNIT
10-648
2na1.69
llev.
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
OFFICE OF ALIEN PROPERTY
Department or Justice
Washington 25, D. 0.
Bep. 29, 1946
Daniel I. D'Amico, Esquire
Cumberland, Wisconsin
Dear Mr. D'Amico:
I acknowledge receipt of your letter
of September 20, 1948.
C
Please be advised that the time with-
in whioh to file a debt olaim, such as that to
which you refer, expired on August 8r 1948.
Sinceeyour letter appears to relate
to mattere within the jurisdiction of the De-
partment of State, you may wish to oummunicate
P
with that Department for further information,
addressing your letter to the attention of the
Legal Adviser.
Y
Sincerely yours,
/s/ David L. Bazelon
David L. Bazelon
Assistant Attorney General
Dineotor, Orrice of Alien Property.

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.96)
NOV 319
In reply refer to
FN 894.51 Bondholders/
10-648
BONDHOLDERS/10-648
4
My dear Mr. D'Amico:
Reference is made to your letter of December 6,
1948, regarding a $lo00 Great Consolidated leotrie
Power Company (Japan) bond held by Mrs. Conrad Nelson.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, but the following may be helpful to your
understanding of the Department's position with
reference to such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in
foreign bonds is primarily a private transaotion
into which the purchaser voluntarily enters after
caloulating the risks involved. In the oase of
obligetions issued by private entities, as were
the Great Consolidated lectric Power Company bonds,
it is assumed that merican holders will be prepared,
if necessary, to avail themselves of the usual methods
to secure enforcement of any rights they may possess.
when resort to such measures becomes practioable. How-
ever, the faot that these bonds were guaranteed by the
Japanese Government may place them in a somewhat differ-
ent category for practical purposes. In the case of
obligations issued or guaranteed by governmental entities,
while it is not the practice of the Dpeartment to nego-
CS/
tiate directly on behalf or American holders in case of
default, it does endeavor to render such assistance as
it appropriately can to them or their representatives.
A
In this
Mr. Daniel I. D'mico,
Cumberland, isconsin.
DCRA OFD UNIT
Anad.
Rev.
CE
~t.

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.98)
In this connection your attention may be ealled te the
Foreign Bondholders Proteotive Counoil, Incorporated,
90 Broad Street, New York, New York, whieh was estab-
lished several years ago to serve as a central repre-
sentative body. The Counoil was organized with the
encouragement or the Department, but it acts on its
own responsibility. It is understood that the Counell
is interesting itself in suoh obligations as that held
by your olient and you may wish to write to it in
conneotiou with her bond.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not
in a position to stete at the present time what provi-
sions, if any, may be inserted in the peace treaty with
Japan regarding such obligations, or what arrangements
for payment of claims arising from the war may be made.
You are doubtless aware that there will be many olaims
and demands against the Japanese Government, and against
persons and munioipalities in thet country, of which such
bonds as that owned by your client will probably consti-
tute only a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department will be glad to make a
record of your client's holding, for such future consider-
ation as may be appropriate, if she is an American citizen.
It is suggested, therefore, that you submit to the Depart-
ment a statement of the date and manner (whether by birth
or naturalization) of her acquisition of merican oitizon-
ship. If she ac uired oitizenship by .naturalization, it
is requested that you give also the name and loeation of
the oourt in which she was naturelized and the number of
her certifioate.
If it should later be found advisable that American
holders of such obligations as these should take any
further action, due announcement will be made in the
public press.
Sincerely yours,
For the Aoting Secretary of State:
NOV
Assiatant Chier
Division ofFinancial Are
S/SR
OFD:FN:JCCorliss:yw
11-1-48

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.86)
Edine J Paueeg531
9rr Thomeo Road
Phoenip Augona
The Secretary of State,
10-16-48
ACTION
is assigned to
OCT 22 1948
my dear M. Corlies:
89
Please rifor to your F.r
4
894.51 Bondheers /9-647. Keference is alas
BOND
I wish to thank you
for youm litters Complitiners of infrmation
H
To
In Answer to the fourth fangrugh of your
口
E
litter I wiah to state that I have
Notified the Foreign Sinthreders Prolutwe
Counal, Ine that 2 do hold these
16
48
Japanese Bonds.
n answer to the last.
paraguph 2 am iubmilting the reguired
infrmation to yom which I equest you
do weord.
SS
① Name of Bondo: - Uijigawn Electic
Nower Co, Rtd. let drritage
7% Finking Fund Goed Bonds

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.80)
of. the Empine of Japan
Mumber of Sonlo: - two
Manner of Auguastin:- By Beguat
3
from mothro Estale at death.
1 late of acgniastin -Ang 61933
Ryother.
1000-Each
U Fasy Yalue:
I ast Parment of nturat:-Segt15.
Manner ind Late of my acquation
8
of Imerican Gitginadiy
Serth at Dumontam, Muhigan
on yil 27 1905.
Dinculy Yours
Idon I Pascell.

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.98)
NOV 81948
In reply refer to
N 894.51 Bondholders/
10-1648
My dear ür. Paull:
BONDHOLDERS/10-164B
Reference 1s made to your letter of Ootober 16,
1948, transmitting information regarding your eoquisi-
tion of certain Japanese bonds, and data with respeet
to your citizenship.
As indicated in the Department's letter of May 7,
1948, this information will be placed in the Depart-
ment's records, for such future use as may be appro-
priate.
incerely yours,
For the Acting Seoretary of State:
Tames C. Corliss
.ssistant Chier
Division of Finanoial Affairs
CS/A
/Mr. Edwin J. Paull,
9 hest Thomas koad,
Phoenix, Arizona.
NOV
OFD:EN:JCCorliss:yw
11-2-48
S/S-CR

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.93)
UNITED STATES
RATIONS AND RESTITUTION DELSGATION
TOKYO. JAPAN
26 October
晦光—19
No. 24
STATE
DEPARTMENT
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject:
Japanese Foreign Currency Bonds (Foreign Bond
holders Protective Council, New York)
De/p
The Honorable
九H
Ritdrs
The Secretary of State,
Washington
FNOEO
Bond
BONDHOLBERS/10-2648
Sir:
I have the honor to refr to Unclaseified Despatch
No. 3 of April 20 and Unclassified Despatch No. 5 of May 4
regarding Foreign Bondholders Protective Council enquiry
concerning Japanese bond issues.
At the request of this Delegation, the Civil Property
Custodian prepared the following report on this subject:
"A sumnary of information on foreign currenoy
bonds furnished by the Japanese Government is as
followe:
"a. Exhibit A' is a statement of the treat-
ment of Japanese Foreign Currency bonds during
the war. There 1s an amount of ¥69,638,156.53
in the Special Property Administration Account
in the Bank of Japan earmarked 'Interest Funds
for External Bond and Debenture.' All of the
payments made into this fund, with one exception,
represent interest only and not sinking fund pay-
ments. The exception 1s the Osaka Harbor Construc-
tion Loan of 1902 which includes the sum of
16,227/1/8 for payment of principal. Appendix I
of Exhibit 'A' gives a breakdown of the balance in
CS/A
the Special Property Administration Account.
STATE
and Ordmances Relating to the Treatment of the
Foreign urrency Bonds.
AM
WC/O
R
B
AcIES
5
1948 NV 3
S.S
C
DCR-OFD UNIT
R
LE
(11+
2
And
Rev.
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 24
26 October 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
"c. Under this law the Japanese Government
called in for conversion all Japanese dollar and
sterling bonds and 1ssued in place thereof yen
obligations of the Japanese Government. The con-
version covered all bonds physically located in
Japan and held by Japanese or nationels of coun-
tries friendly to Japan. Appendix II to Exhibit
'A' shows for each series the bonds outstanding
at the outbreak of the war, those purchased or
redeemed under the law and those outstanding after
conversion into yen bonds was made.
"d. The Japanese Government also converted
into yen bonds a number of sterling and dollar
bonds which were located outside of Japan. This
conversion was made on the basis of certification
of the owners in Japan of such ownership and of
the location thereof outside Japan. Exhibit 'C'
shows the location of the bonds which were outside
of Japan and converted into yen bonds during the
war. The Japanese Government has furnished details
of the numbers and owners of the bonds which were
not in Japan during the war but which were converted
into yen bonde. This information is available in
the office of the Civil Property Custodian. These
bonds were not physically delivered to the owners
but are held by the Japanese Governnent.
"e. The Japanese Government 4% sterling bonds
of 1910 and the Tokyo 5% sterling loan of 1912 con-
tained a provision that the interest could be paid
in Swiss Francs in Switzerland. Inclosed is a
schedule, Exhibit 'D,' showing the remittances made
in Switzerland. The officials of the Japanese Govern-
ment state that these remittances were made on the
certification by the Japanese Minister in Switzerland
that the coupons or bonds were owned by a neutral or
a national whose government was friendly to Japan dur-
ing the war. They further stated that so far as they
know coupons which were paid in Switzerland have not
been returned to Japan, nor does the Japanese Govern-
ment have a record of the payments to owmers of the cou-
pons or bonds.
"f. For your information, there are also inclosed
Exhibits 'E' and 'F,' which are an explanation of French
currency bonds presently outstanding.
The

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 24
26 0otober 1948
UNCLASSBSIED
-3-
"The schedule on sterling and franc obligations
inclosed with the letter from the Foreign Bondhold-
ers Protective Council, 15 March 1948, 1s returned
herewith.
"The Japanese Government has been direoted to
submit additional information regarding the dollar
and sterling bonds which will be forwarded when
received."
When additional informetion is received from the
Office of the Civil Property Custodian it will be forwarded
for the information of the Department.
Respectfully yours,
Charles L. Hodge
Chief
T
Enclosures:
1.
Exhibits "A" through "F"
2.
Schedule on Sterling and Franc Obligations

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.99)
How mere Japanese bonds in foreign
currency treated during the war?
1. Emergency measures taken immediately after the
outbreak.
(1)
With the outbreak of mar all routes for remittances ove
seas were blocked, thus, the fulfillment of obligations
by obligors of Japanese foreign currency bonds in accord
ance with the terms of the contracts became impossible.
But, if the payment of-interest thereon was not made at
all, it was feared not only that the right of the obligees
could not be wholly rotected but that such a step would
place the bond issuers' accounting on an unsound basis.
Accordingly, the folloving measures vere temporarily
adopted:
(a) Payment in ven of interest in Japan to nationals of
Japan and friendly powers (axis and neutral countries)
(b) Continued payment of interest to Switzerland to
nationals of countries referred to in (a) above:
(c) Transfer of funds, for the payment of interest
to nationals of belligerent and non-neutral
countries, into a special account.
(2)
As for the foreign currency bonds ovned by nationals of
Japan and friendly countries, the interest converted into
yen at the exchange rates prevailing inmediately before
the war, viz., ¥4.25 per US dollar and ¥16.84 per English
pound was paid, at every interest payment term, by the
bond issuers, under an order based on the Foreign
Exchange Control Law.
(3)
As for 4% sterling Japanese Government bonds, 1910, and
5% sterling City of Tokyo bonds, 19l2, their interest
was payable in Switzerland. Accordingly, the payment of
their interest was continued on Certifica es issued by
the Japanese Iinister in that country testifying that
the-bonds in questi on have been continuously ovned by
a national of Japan or a friendly power.
(4)
As for foreign currency bonds owned by nationals of
belligerent or non-neutral countries, it was prescribed
by an order based on the Enemy Property Administration
Law that interest converted into yen at the rates
referred to in (2) above should be paid in a lump
sum, at every interest paying term, to the Special
Property Administration Account estahlished in the
Yokohama Specie Bank, in the name of the fiscal agent,
by the bond issuers. Thus, as far as the Japanese
law is concerned, the bond issuers were relieved of
their obligations in regard to the payment of interest
which becane due.
Incl 12

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.99)
(5)
The payment of interest to the Special Propomt
made, one month after the expiration of each int
paying term, of the remainder of the total interemt
ments for each interest paying term after deducting
sum paid in Japan as stated in (2) above and, when d
for payment of interests as referred to in (2) were 
after the payment of the fund to the Account, the sum
required in meeting the demand was repaid from the fund
already transferred to the Account. The balance of the
Special Property Administration Account is shown in the
appendix 1.
2. The disposal of bonds in accordance mith the Law
Relating to the Treatment of the Foreign Currency
Bonds.
(1) The continuation of the mar over a longer period had given
rise to the necessity of taking measures of more funda-
mental nature in dealing mith foreign currency bonds.
Accordingly, in :arch, 1943, the Law Relating to the
Treatment of the Foreign Currency Deeds was enacted.
The disposals made in pursuance of the Law may be
summarized into the folloing three categories:
(a). The liquidation of the bonds then existed'in the
bond issuers' own hands:
(b) The conversion of the bonds into Japanese currency
bonds:
(c) The succession by the Govcrnment to the obligations
of payment of the principal and interest of the
remaining local and corporate bonds.
The detail figures in regard to those disposals are shown
in detail in the Appendix 11.
(2) With the enforcement of the Law Relating to the Treatment
of the Foreign Currency Bonds, the bonds existend in the
bond issuers' own hands were compulsorily liquidated. The
sum of bonds thus liquidated are as follows:
Sterling bonds
US dollar bonds
(Pounds)
(Dollars)
Local bonds
120.
3,372,000.
Corporate bonds
194,100.
21,380,000.
Total
194,220.
23,752,000.
(3)
The conversion into Japanese currency bonds was deemed
a duty of the bond issuer and executed on the bond
owners' agreement.
Principal matters relating to the conversion are as
follows:
2

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.99)
(a) Permission for the conversion was grantet
principle, to nationals of Japan and friend
powers. In addition to them, however, some
Japanese-foreign Juridical persons were desi
as persons who could apply for the conversion
(b) Apart from those which existed actually in Japmn
the conversion was permitted of the bonds then
existed abroad, regarding which onership certifici
were issued on the certainty of omership and on
knowledge of the bonds' marks and serial numberss
(c) The conversion rates were fixed at on the basis
of averages of the prevailing rates on Japanese
and overseas markets.
(d) Terms of the Japanese currency bonds delivered as the
result of the conversion were decided upon, for
government, local and corporates bonds .respectively
taking as the basis of decision the terms of such
bonds as had then enjoyed the marketability the
most and regarded as the standard:
(e) Sums of thc foreign currency bonds converted into
Japanese currency ones are as follows:
Sterling bonds
US dollar bonds
(pounds)
(dollars)
Government bonds
25,573,885.
131,146,500.
Local bonds
1,508,720.
16,196,000.
Corporate bonds
6,500.
44,082,500.
Total
27,089,105.
191,455,000.
(4)
In regard to the balance of the unredeemèd local and
corporate bonds after dcducting the liquidated amount
referred to in (2) above is the amount of conversion
referred to in (3) above existed at thc time of the
enforcement of the Law Relating to the Treatment of
the Foreign Currency Bonds the Government has, upon
payment by the bond issuers of the equivalent values
to the Government, taken over the obligations of the
payment of the bonds' principal and interest. Thus,
the Government of Japan has assumed the obligations of
paying thc principal and interest in regard to the
foreign currency bonds owncd by nationals of belligerent
and non-neutral countries and those in the hands of
nationals of Japan and friendly powers who did not want
the conversion, and at the same time, the issuers of
local bonds and corporate bonds have been relieved of
their obligations as far as the Japanese law is concerned
Suns for the bonds taken over by the Government are shown
below:
3

=== Page 404 === (confidence 1.00)
Sterling bonds
(Pounds)
Local bonds
6,585,817.
Debenture bonds
3,007,676.
Total
9,593,493.
(5)
With the taking over by the Government of the obligation
referred to in (4) above, the original contracts of
local and corporate bonds have lost their binding force
in regard to mortgage and other matters except the
obligation to pay the principal and interest, and the
guarantee by the Government for the payment of the
principal and interest has automatically come to lapse
due to the merging of entities of the obligor and the
guarantor. Since the taking over by the Government
of the obligations, the payment of interests on the
foreign currency bonds had been suspended pending
their final disposition after the end of the mar.
(6)
The procedures stated above have, in general, been
completed by September, 1943. Later, however, upon
applications from those who had been late in applying
for the conversion or were unawares of the enforcement
of the Law Relating to the Treatment of the Foreign
Currency Bonds, the second conversion was decided to
be effected and its execution was completed in August,
1945. Sums of the foreign currency bonds converted
into Japanese currency bonds on the second conversion
are shown below. At that time, all the obligations
arising from the foreign currency bonds had been
assumed by the Government as stated in (4) above.
Accordingly, the Japanese currency bonds delivered
on conversion were all government bonds.
Sterling bonds
US dollar bonds
(Pounds)
(Dollars)
Government bonds
12,700.
154,200.
Local bonds
20.
23,000.
Corporate bonds
392,500.
Total
12,720.
569,700.
3. Solution of the question after the war.
(1)
Question as to the disposition of foreign currency bonds
after the war is one which cannot fundamentally be
solved unless and until an international agreement has
been reached. On the other hand, the payment of the
principal and interest of foreign currency bonds
has been completely suspended until to-day ever since
the taking over by the Government of obligation of pay-
ing the ir principal and interest.
4

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
(2) The interest payment fund, which
an emergenoy measure immediately arte
break into the Special Property Administ
has been placed under the contrgl of the o
SCAPIN and the disposition of any part of it
been allowed yet. Incidentally it may be ment
that the Account has been transferrcd from the
Specie Bank to the Bank of Japan in August, 1946.
(3)
The Japanesc are quite prepared to do their best for
fulfiliment of ali the obligations relating to the
foreign currency bonds and vill make every effort to
meet all the obligations, so far as her cconomy perml
on the basis of the intcrnational agreement when
it is realized one day.
5

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.89)
HIBIT
List of the Lecation of the Pereign Carreney Bemls whieh were
entaside of Jagan and eomverted inte Tan Bends during the War.
Japanese
Jepaneee
Jagenese
Jupanose
Jepanese
Jayanose
Govermment
Cevermsnt Geverment Goverment
Govermment
Geveramen't
Governmeet
6k% Boad
SkL
5% Lomm
4% Loam
6% Loam
Sk% Loam
192
0199018991909
of 1910
192h
1930
U.S..
$8.660.000
$3.067,000 5
900
3 25.000
3.540  100.000
40.200
工
Califormis
4.510.800
2.502.000
900
15.200
Waskingten
26.500
69,000
Gregen
4.000
Nlow Yark
4.0%.700
229.000
25.000
3.540
100,000
25.000
Illinsis
4.000
Mary land
West Virginia
Nameis
22,000
263.000
Caaada
21,000
1.000
600
4.000
20,000
320,000
958,100 1,078,000
2.318,000 6,756,210
3.449.720

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.86)
3ameee
Ja pomeee
Japanese
Covcmment
Gor crnment
Corrnment
Cloverament
6xBaad
Sk% Boad
Lom
5% Lomm
Loem
5kx Loam
192h
190109
1997
1910
192k
1990
$
40300
- 2 600
4.000
§ 2,110
1.470
2
750
Prense
4.480
Notherlands
7.500
Switserland
100
45,000
3.300
3.6
5.200
Pertugal
20560
Italy
19.700
Vatsom
9.000
2,000
21.400
56.440
3.050
49.350
10.500
2,300
0
Chisa
4.300
13.000
Philippime
30,000
100
300
Total
8,756,200
3,429,000
990.700
1,191.000
2.342.36
6.906230
3.502.160

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.84)
South Manaks
Tetal of Coverment Beats
aity a
at a
aty a
rian Raikmay
Tokye
Tokye
Tobe
Lom of
Dollar Bomla S
Sterling Bonde
5k% Boad
5% Lean
Shx Leem
5%
1923
1987
of 1912
α8 1986
1926
U. S..
2
$11.727.000
2
169.640 $633,080
2 6.300
$117,000
Califernie
7,012,800
16,100
612:000
2.300
10.000
Taskington
95.500
6,000
8.000
q
Gregam
4.000
2.000
Now York
4.325.700
153.540
5.000
4.000
97.000
1nlints
4.000
Myland
West Virginle
Hamels
265,000
10,000
22,000
600
4,000
20,000
106.100
320.000
14.965.000
406.200
214.T6
4.300
15.620
5.000

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.88)
South meobee
Total of Goveeament Bonks
adlty of
dityd
atya
rism Rallway
Takye
Takge
Tekye
58 Lomm of
Dellar Boada Sterling Boads
5kxBemd
5% Lom
5
6x boed
1923
1927
1912
Lon f
1926
1920
Mather lande
$
7.500
Suitesrlamd
45.200
11.960
200
Fortugal
2.540
Italy
13.700
Vatsosm
11.000
135.520
20
2,300
Chime
4.300
13.000
hilippine
30.000
400
Sotal
404.100
12,185,200
15.335.550
634.000
454.460
219.960
117.000

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.89)
Total of Leeal Govera-
Griental
Criemtal
Taisen Elestrie
Greet
Develop-
Dovelep.
Pomer Co.5k%
Canseliästed
5% Bead
Deller Boals
Sterling
meat Co.
mest Co.
Boad of 1931
Elestrie
1909
Bonde
6x Boad
5kx Boadl
Pewer Co. 7%
1923
1928
Boad af 192
U.S..
$750,000
6.300
$ 309,000
$117.500
$ 95.000
$ 30,000
Callfersis
622,000
2.300
50.000
40.000
16.000
10,000
Raahingten
14.000
26,000
20.000
37.000
Gregom
2,000
2,000
Now York
102.000
4.000
a1.000
19.500
32,000
Illinets
3.000
10.000
Meryland
West Virginia
5.000
Hamail
10.000
145.000
35.000
20,000
Casede
Mexice
1 

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.80)
ata
Total of Lesal Govern-
Griental
Griemtal
Tsimmn Xlee- Greet
Doveleg
Develeg-
trle Pover Conealsdated
Dallar baa
m00.
mam C0.
Co. Sks Bond Elestrie Power
1909
6Ban
a 1931
00.7% Bad f
1923
a 1928
1924
ingiand
à 6.720
2669,600
$
$
$
1,000
5.020
25.000
Prenee
Metherlande
Sei tesriani
200
Pertagal
Italy
Vatiosm
Datie
Chime
shltagine
6.720
751,000
602.140
309,000
242.500
95.000
30.000

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.84)
Great
Sabo
Shingetes
Mppon Kh etris
Sakye Elestrie
Sakgo
Consolidatel
Dlestrie
Elestris
Poner 00. 61x
Ischt 00. 6%
Blestrie
Destrie
Power Co.
Power Co.
Boad of 1928
$ Baml of 1926
Light Cs.
Pever Go.
78 Bamd
61% Bond
6% & Bond
1925
1927
1928
2925
...
$ 30.000
$ 51,000
$ 34.000
$775.000
Callferaia
18.000
33.000
243.000
Wackdagton
1.000
1,000
31.000
2.000
Now Yark
14.000
Illimals
mny1
1,000
West Virglate
29.000
33.000
484.000
151.000
30.000
12,000
5.000

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.83)
Satho
Shingetas
Mppen Klectrie
Tokye Klestrie
Comsolidated
Klestrie
Elestrie
Pomer Co. 6k%
Iaht 00. 
Éestrie
Elestrie
Power Co.
Power Ce.
Boad of 1926
$ Band of 1920
I1ght 00.
Pemer Go.
78 Band
1925
1927
1928
2985
Nether land
$
$
$
Suiteerland
100
Portagal
rtaby
Tatiom
India
2,000
Chim
Pilippine
Rotal
12,000
30.000
51,000
39,000
960,000
1.500

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.90)
Tetal of Deben tures
Cremd
Total
Dellar Bends Sterling Boads
Beller Beals
Sterling Bonks
U...
$1.441.500
2
$ 13.918.500
175.940
Califermia
410.000
8,044.800
18,400
Waskingten
116.000
225.500
Grogem
4.000
10.000
Now York
146.500
5,000.
157.540
Inlimis
13.000
1,041,000
Maryland
1,000
1,000
West Virginia
5,000
5.000
Namaii
746,000
1,041,000
151,000
179.000
600
Masice
4,000
32,000
52,000
600
310,000
15.636,000
42,000
800
47.300
21,430
40400
Retherlands
7.500
12.260
Sai tese lanl
300
45.100
Pertugal
2.50

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.85)
cramd sotel
Rotal of Bobentures
Dellar Tande Steritag tonke
Ster lliag Roake
2 19.700
I
11.030
195.50
Vztiam
2,000
2.300
2,000
Intte
4.300
19.000
30,000
400
Pilippine
$14.604.700
L-16,018.190
$ 1,668.500
1,500
TORAL

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.96)
pétx 1.
The Belance of the Special Property
Administration Aceount.
Name of Bonds
Yen Balance
1. Government Bonds
Japanese Govemment 6% Bond of 1924
¥4,071,260,58  957,963.56
5 Bond of 1930
2,280,741.53 * 536,645.00
n
4% Sterling Loan
of 1899
4,576,303.68 2 871,758.-/-
n
5% Sterling Loan
of 1907
16,519,719.12 " 980,980 18/11
n
4% Sterling Loan
of 1910
4,600,482.62 " 273,10 16/0
8
6% Sterling Loan
10,656,981.87 " 632,857 8/0.
of 1924
n
52% Sterling Loan
of 1930
5,200,131.41 * 308,796 8/0
一
South Manohurian Railway Co. Ltd.
5% Sterling Loan of 1923
2,917,614.80 * 173,255 -/-
Total:
Dollar
6,352,002.11
$1,494,588.56
Sterling
44,471,232.90
£2640,809 10/11
Yen Amount
50,823,235.01
2. Local Bonds
Tokyo 5 Bond of 1927
514,413.71  256,437.50
Tokyo 5% Sterling Loan of 1912
1,771,481.76 £ 181,448 10/0
Tokyo 51% Sterling Loan of 1926
4,426,761.05
"453,422 4/0
Yokohama 6% Bond of 1926
647,717.34
322,890.00
Yokohama 5% Sterling Bond of 1909
487,544.68
£
49,938 -/-
Nagoya 5% Sterling Bond of 1909
55,034.01
n
5,637 -/-

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
Harbour Construetion Loan
280,855.01 £
of 1908
Total:
Dollar
1,162,131.05
Sterling
7,021,674.51 £
719,88
Yen Amount
8,183,805.56
3. Debenture
Oriental Development Co. 6% Bond of
1923
1,415,373.42
705,570.00
Oriental Development Co. 52% bona
of 1928
676,217.77
337,097.50
Taiwen Electric Power Co. 5ex Bond
of 1931
866,035.34
431,782.50
Great Consolidated Electric Power
Co. 7% Bond of 1924
378,431.90
188,650.00
Great Consolidated Eleotric Fower
Co. 61% Bond of 1925
196,758.52
98,085.00
Toho Blectric Power Co. 7% Bond of
1925
80,671.29
40,215.00
Shinyetsu Elactric Power Co. oex
Bond of 1927
246,032.71
122,947.50
Nippon Eleotric Power Co. otx bond
of 1928
297,289.28
148,200.00
Tokyoo Eleotrio Light Co. 6% Dollar
Bond of 1928
3,506,508.06 "1,748,010.00
Tokyo Electrio Light Co. 6% Sterling
Bond of 1928
2,580,741.66 £ 264,339 -/-
Toho Electric Power Co. 5% Sterling
Bond of 1925
68,903.32
7,057 12/0
Ujigawa Electric Power Co. 7% Bond
of 1925
317,552.69
90,685.00
Total:
Dollar
7,981,470.98
3,911,182.50
Sterling
2,649,644.98
£
271,396 12/0
Yen Amount
10,631,115.96

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.97)
rand Total
Bollar
¥15,495,604.14
Sterling
54,142,552.59
69,638,156.55
Yen Amount
Notes: 1. The payments of interests on Government bonda r
made for those of which the time for the payment or
interest arrived between the outbreak of the war
and the end of Jan. 1943. The exohange rates were
 1 for ¥ 4.25 and £ 1 for ¥ 16.84.
2. Payments of interests on local bonds and debentures
were made for those of which the time of interest
payment arrived for the first time after the
enforcement of the Law relating to the Treatment of
the Foreign Currency Bonds on Maroh 31, 1943 since
the outbreak of the war. The paymentawwere, at
first, made by the pre-war exohange rates of
 1 equivalent to ¥ 4.25 and £ 1 equivalent to
¥ 16.84, but the exchange rates were afterwards
revised to the old pur rates of  1 equivalent to
¥2.006 and  1 equivalent to 9.763, and the excess
amount of pyments was refunded exclusive that of
Ujiguwa Electric Power Co..
The yen amount of the Osaka 4% Harbour Construotion
Loan of 1902 includes the sum of £ 6, 227 1/8 for
payment of principal to te redeemed by lot.

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.82)
 te
(1) 2ata) ment reseived trm the Tabre Meremlle (ren A 190 - to msh 190).
(a) Pade fer emeutiem of the
agroment of compronis....
7.838.775.9270.78.37.7599.
(b) Pande for payment of prinsipal end
interest a the ad   bons.. 8,418. 821.9. . 9,145.182.
(arah 1941 - mmersh 1948)
…16.257.597.…Po.167.532.91.
Total ....
Learued interest en depesit of the
famd Fes. 78,387.759.07 (mg. 31, 1940-
Ost. 31, 1940) and the interest payment
frand of merth 1942 (Peb. 27, 1942 -
h 18, 1942).
25.130.72
16,22.72..167.5..

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.81)
-2•
(2) prent eastedien of the Panie
Beapue Franso-Japenaise Tokye......
 8,312,376.2 (7. .77..)
Inlustrial Bank of Japen ....
5.157.503.o.57.12.56.
Tobabama Spesie Bank
(Sakye Bamk) ...
2,628.512.59(Pes.15.877.997.)
Imount of Prench Taes paid to
Premch Fiss.......
184.335.2Fa.1.760.
TDotal ..
…16,202,728.红…Pes.167.592.91.

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.82)
Datailed toble shesins the stnsirel and ant
cnt reecired tre
Telve metrepelle (Brem ms, 19e to Pes, 1948)
As of mersh 30, 2948
Name of Fands
Frams
Comversion
Yom
Bate
Pa te
Reeedvel
Poia fer erntien ef the
.290
Bask peymnt of pr tnei pal an
fnterest of Old Bond
(Frem Sapt, 1928 - To
Sept. 1940)
4.067.087.322
Interest of mew isme
Bead payable winder the
emeutiem of Protesel
12.398,850,000
Cask-frastiom to be
added to new issme Boad
1,921,821,750
substetal
78.387.759.072
• Frs. 10.-
7.838.775.90
Dntermnt of 4 Band
Merch 1941
1,111,000.00
e m. 9.2
116,947.30
Sopt. 
1,114.962.2
e . 9.22
114.355.23
March
1,098,100.002
  9.2
96.50.30

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.86)
Segt. 19%2
1,038,100.00
9.30
96.543.30
Ma 1943
957.387.50
89.037.03
.27
Sept. 
957.387.50
89.037.03
Marsh 1944
872,637.50
81.155.28
Pab. 2904
Sept. 
872.637.50
81.155.28
1945
783.650.00
72.879.45
Sept. 
783.650.00
72.879.45
20.30046
March 1966
690.212.50
64.189.76
Pah.246
Boyt. 
690,212.50
64.189.76
.346
Marah 1947
592.112.50
55066.46
Tab. 20047
Sept. 
592.112.50
55.066.46
06.3047
March 1948
489.100.00
45.486.30
0t. 2008
Sab-total
12.583.262.50
1.194.531.35
rxinninnì of 0ld nd
191
3.116,000.00
e Fr. 9.75
319.509.75
.294
1942
3.228.900.00
●
9.30
300,250.50
163
3.390,000.00
325.270.00
1944
3.550.500.00
332.033.590
2945
30757.500.00
30.57.0

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.90)
1946
3.924,000.00
364.932.00
1947
4,120,500.00
303,206.50
.0
Sub-tetal
25.075.000.00
2.361,869.75
Intrute s 
March 1941
2.479.770.00
0 Prs. 9.50
261,028.42
Sogt. 
2.479.770.00
. 9.75
254.335.38
.29
March 1942
2,427.210.00
9.30
225.730.53
10.27
Sept. 
2,427.210.00
225.730.53
.29
M 1943
2.372,020.00
220.597.86
Mob. 27 
Sept. 
2,372,020.00
220.597.86
Mch 1944
2.314.070.00
215.208.51
10.29
Sopt. 
2.314.070.00
215,208.51
.3104
March 1945
2,253.220.00
209.549.46
Sept. 
2,253.220.00
209.569.46
1946
2,189.330.00
203.607.69
Sept. 
2,189.330.00
203.607.69
1
M1947
2,122.240.00
297.368.3
b.
Sept. 
2,817.600.00
262.096.80
M 1948
2,051,880.00
190.817.40

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.89)
Sub-total
35.062,880.00
3.3240974.42
Prineined of Py Band
2941
2,102,000.00
• Prs. 9.75
2352589.74
.290
1942
2.207,600.00
9.30
205.306.80
.29
190
2,318,000.00
215.574.00
14
2,434.000.00
226.362.00
1945
2.555.600.00
237.670.80
1946
2.683.600.00
249.574.80
1947
2,122,240.00
197.360.32
Sub-tetal
16.423.040.00
20547446.46
1¥7.532.9412572
16.25797

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.84)
Tote: L.the aein
Lated by the emhenge ee
ote, per yes.
2. The smeant of the Toke Bloakrás
Power Go., Ltd.  Bed of 
outstanding now imeledes the m
of 8 8,000 whieh  fe
tently emitted at the time a 
Geverest esempsies, bt 
gated by the Gevermestr
Lew Relating to the Trea
the Fereigs Curreney Besds eas
Regulatiess rer Buferecmsmt themems
has st been cmpleted sd et 
in the beek er the sovermmess.

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.89)
Epletiye
1.h
the Freach Garrensy Bondergressntly entstending ere enly
The Jaganese Geveranent 4s Prensh Garresey Rend of 1910
and the Caty of Tekye 5% Trensh Frame Ronle of 1912. These
Presek Curreney Bends were ezempted fren the tèjest of the
special measures as applied to Dolier er Sterling Beads dring
the late wer en acsount of the partieuler reascns as stated
belew and remain aimest the sme status as tefere the war.
The JapanssepGevernment 48 Fremeh Currency Bond of 1910.
This Bonds were initially issued in the mount of Fes.
450,000,000 with the cutstanding amount as of the end of
March, 1948 1mdicatine 365,875,000 frames. Paris, Londem,
Brussel and Tekye have been desi geated as the pleses of
primsipal md iaterest peyment. In the pless of Takge
a eesversiem rate has beem fized at 258 frasss to 100 yen
As a remalt of comsiderable depresiation of frams sines
the first world war the payment in yem for the beaks
beemm very advantageeus to bend owners. In 1924 er 1925.
70% at all the bonds were estimated to have beem flowed in
Japem judging from the interest payuents in Tokyo. In the
end of April, 1947. the bonds registered in Japan mounted
to 235,100, 500 framss mest of whish were held by finsnsial
imstitutiems in Japem.
In view of the above status the bonds have been treated
the see with yen matiemel bonds and even sinee the war the
payment of interest hes been earried cut in Japen. Thas, in
the enfareement of the Law Relating to the Treatmest of the

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.89)
the rendttenee of the interest to akrend eould met fine the wa
with the wasthreak at the we, the taterest  tee ny at
37.047.166 fremes as of the end of Deeember, 2947 (2.741.88e fremms
 of the end of Marsh, 1940) beeause mest of the bends were pabe
of their interest in Japen. Sinse the end of the war the interest
has contimed to be paid in Japen while the peyment to abreed hes
beam suapended. s the bends ware au therised to be paid in te the
Covermest with the Preperty Tax like yen matiemal boals, l4.s.se
frames heve beem redeemed frem the middle of the lest yeer te the
e, this year.
3. The City of Tekye 5% Bremsh Trame Bonds of 1922
(1) mherees the City af Tekye projected to float its bonds in
the ageregate primsipal amsunt of &9,175.000 for purpese of
raising fund fer its elestrie undertakings in 1912, it wms fomd
diff ealt to be digested the whole mount in a single merket and they
ware fleated in the three maricsts, Britain, the United states and
Pranee, divided as follews. The subject Bonds are the pertism
ismed in Pranse, and the payment of primsipal and interest has
beem mede ia Fraaee and Bergiwn.
Partiem isssed in Britain (Londem) 
3.175.000
" United States
(Now Yerk)
2,000.000
. ranee (paris)
Fres.100,800.000
(omivalent to L4.000,080)
(2) Due te the fast that the asute depreciation of the frame value
after the World Wer I, lawsuits were brought ome after another by
Fremek Remdtkelders mround 1926 and thereafter, demmding that the
prinsipal and interest of the Boads should be paid in pound starling.

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.90)
(9)
Zagasese Courth they lost.
It may be added that these saits were brought about an
the reme of the projests at the time of ismee, prtienlarly
stressing en the embelishing words deseribed on the eertifleates
 the Beads, "res. 100,880,000 eguivalent to & 4.000,000." om the
ether hand, the City of Tokyo pretested emphatieally that the Frame
Beads were entirely independent fren those ef British and the tmited
States, as viewed from various contracts ef the Bond issuss amd frem
the details deseribed on the Bemd eartificate.
(3)
In consequenee of the suits, the City of Tokyo was eompelled to
maspend the regular remittanse of the required funde to Frasse
fer payment ef the prinsipal and interest, falling due en and
after September 1st, 1928. This is the caly ease fer the Jegenese
fereige bonds that the payment of primsipal and interest was
saspended in the pease time.
(4)
The dispute, as stated above, lasted ever a leng peried in a eheetie
state witheut kmewing its comelusion. Hewever, in view of the sitms
ties, requiring the general boniholders' interest not to be prejedleed
and further the undesirable iniluence on the diplematie relatiems
between Fresse and Japem to be prevented, the satisfastery settle-
ment was intended threugh geed offlees of both Geverments. After
many twiste and trust in megetiatiem, the Compromime Agreeeent wes
finally cene lnded in Deeember 1939 and the date for sarrying out the
emcutiom ef the protesol was fixed on September lst, 1940.
Hewever, owing to the dafeat ef franse in Jume 19h0 and sub-
sequent expansien of the Werld War, the astual Exeeutien of the Agree

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.91)
0
Detedie of the Emeetlen ef the Lgreement of Compramise, (mnt
ferally sigmed) are pointed es fellewse
a. The peyment of the all Bomds desigmated fer redemptien by
drawings en er before September lst, 19ke and al1 ceupems
fallen due en er befere said date shall be mate in eash
(in Frenck Frames) at om time, en Septamber lst, 1940, after
dedustiom ef Bremeh tax whish had been paid in advanee by
Tokye Metropelis.
b. No baek interest on the above Bonds and ceupoms shall be paid.
c. A Bomms of Fcs. 407.75 aball be given as folloms:
1. Against every ome eertificste of the Bemls
(a) whish were desigeated fer redemptien by dremings
and remaimed umpaid, on or befere September let.
1940.
(b) which are net desigmated for redemptien by dramings.
(c) hich already paid sonditionally.
2. Against every 40 pieces of all coupons
(a) Which fall due on or before March 1st, 1998.
(b) Whish were alreedy paid conditionally.
d. of the Bomus Fes. 407.75. the mm of Fes. 400 shall be paid in
the form of a New Bend certifieate in the same ameust and the e
sum of Fes. 7.75 shall be paid ta eash.
e. The New Boads shall be issmed en the date of September lst,
1940, maturimg 25 years thereafter: provided that iaterest,
during the period from Mareh 1st, 1938 to September 1st, 1940.
shall be spesially delivered and suck interest shall be paid
in eash on September lst, 1940.

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.66)
Iemestien Agremmses of Comprise is as tellems

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.86)
the condition of Now
(1)The Bende dosi guated
6.Gbs cartiricates
for redemptiem hy
sponding to Now Fes.
Mmarch 1st, 1gas but
400 Bond certifieates.
remsimd apatd.
(2)The Boads designated
fer redeaptiom by
64.180 Ccrtificates
64.180 
drawing betweem Sept.
(Fes.32,090.000) Carre-
Lst, 1928 and Sept.
sponding to New Fos.
lst, 1940 but remained
400 Bend eertificates
umpaid
(3)The Bonds not desig
103.690 certificates
(7e.51.845.000) 0 103.690 
mated for redemptiom
sponding to Naw Fes.
400 Bend Certifisates
Sub-total
173.214 csrtiricates
1.
(Fos. 86.957,000)
(4)The Bonds condi-
308 certifieates
tienally paid
(Fes. 154.000) Corre-
....2sheets
sponding to New Fes.
400 Bond sertirieates
(b) Compon
(1)The upems due on or....
605.851 Yes.
before Mareh Lat.
(Fos.7.573.137.50)
1928 and remained unpaid
(2)The coupoms due
3,478,280 res.
betwean sept.lst, 1928
(Fos.43.478.500)
and Marsh 1st, 1996
(3)The coupens condi-
70.k32 Pes.
tiemally paid
(Fes.880,400.-)
sut-total
4015k0563 Paae
Against 4.154.563 Pes. ef total coupens, the New Fes. 400..
103.6
Bead certificates are to be delivered at the ratie er
ens Now Bond csrtificate to 40 sheets of coupems
..37thoote
Graml-total

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.87)
The required ameunt to be paid tm eash, at a time, en the date of emeeutiam of Protesel
Total re-Pertiem held Remeinder Tax afves
Regaired mnt
quired mount by the City af ter de eed by the
for astual rents
of Takye
fustion
adity a
tense te be mle
made
Takye
Fes.
Fes.
Fes.
Fos.
(a) Against
Requirel
32,090.000
2.587.000 29.503.000 177.981.889
29.325.018.172
64.180 pos.
amount for
of Boad eer-
eash pay-
sificates
ment of
designated by
the primcipal.
dresing for
 . 500
redemptiem
per Boad
between Sept.
eartificate
1. 1928
Sept. 1, 1940
and remained
umpaid
(b) Agaimet
Required
4,347.850 pos.
amous for
54.348.125
6,110.400 18,237.725 13.495.655.844
of coupoms due
easb pay-
34.742.069.156
between Sept.
mont of
1. 1928 and
the interest
Sapt. 1, 1940
e rea. 12.50
per pn
Sub-total
201322122 3062710 7107h00725
1367672

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.92)
(e) Against now
Required
bend cartl-
amount for
ficates for beads
payment of
13.904.350
1.505.500 12.398.850
12.998.850.
the inter-
est for
5ter
falling
due up to
Sept. 1.
1940
(d) Agaimt
Required
2.155.174.25
233.352.50 1.921.821.75
1,921,821.75
odd zum for
amoust for
bonds
cash pay-
Fes.7.75
mant
Sub-total
16.059.524.25 1.738.852.50 14.320.671.75
14.320.672.75
TOTAL.
102.497.669.85
100636.252.50 82.061.396.75
73.387.7

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.91)
Saptasker lat, 19se had been coupletely prepared, bat due to the ehass
of the atiemel status in Prasee resul ted frem the Gemme isresien thave
was ne wey fer the City of Tokyo in petting iate feree the Agreememe ame
thes the remttanse af all the required fands has atill remined wmeffeeted
un
to the presems on ascount of such an avoidable siremstamses.
It is warthy of notiee, however. that the City of Tekge has
alwmays mede effert and held its firm standing in utnest bemesty d
sineer to implemnt the said Agrement. te cen be clearly am frm
the above, although there ceuld be foumd no proper wey fer remtttamee
of the zesessery funds in the wartine and even after the war, the Gity
of Tokyo hes paid into the Imdustrial Benk of Japan met enly the
required fund fer exseuticm of said Compremise agreement, but fumis fer
peymeat of the primeipal end interest of the Old and New Bonds dwe
thereafter em the respestive dates stipuleted in the lem contrests
and these funks, having been divided by two banks, the Iniustrial Bank
of Japan and the manque Franoo-Japanaise, are nov cafely kept in eustoty
for protestiom ef bomihelders' interest. The City of Takyo is ammiting
and ready to ast for emecution of said Agreement at any time when the
eireumstamees permit.

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.94)
Re Payment ef Interest ef Pereiga
Curreney Bends in Dwitserland
1. Japanese Govermment 4% Sterling Bend of 1910
due date of
Amount of remittanse
payment
In Sterling
in Swiss Frano
(lf for
17.30 Pr.)
June 1942
£ 2,949 4/0
Fr. 1,020.-
PT
107,007.13
Dee
2,993 4/0
51,782.35
June 1943
4
Dee.
48,685.65
June 1944
43,924.70
Addition to above
(from June 1942
22 -1-
380.60
380.90
to June 1944 )
Dee 1944
2,993 4/0
51,782.35
43,647.90
June 1945
2,997 12/0
51,858.50
13,552.80
Total
20,934 16/0
Fr.362,170.85
rr. 257,998.68
2. Tokyo 5 sterling Loan of 1912
March 1942
£ 797-/0
Pr.
13,788.10
7
Sept. "
1,055 10/0
18,261.00
Pr.
17,360.55
March 1943
1,003 10/0
17,360.55
8
Sept. "
n
9,757.20
March 1944
n
16,858.85
Sept
16,633.95
Addition to above
(from Mareh 1942
75-1-
1,297.50
1,297.90
to Sept. 1944)
March 1945
1,016 -1-
17,576.80
Total
6.957 1070
126,366.60

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
3.
1) The latest dates of remittaness were Ang. 9
1945 fer the Japanese Geverament René and
April 6, 1945 fer the Tokye 5% Leem.
2) Payments of interest ware made at the
office ef the Swiss Bank Cerperatien, Basal.
3) Punds fer payment of interest were remitted
via Yokehama Spesie Bank.

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.88)
of bonds eutstanting
red for si aking fund purposes
and clled in Joan
faee amount in pounds of bonds
into imtermeè yen obligations,
imslude bonds -
Coverted by the Govermment
0441
Those etherwise converted
outa
s Japan after the foregoing sink-
6075200
ing
and nversion cancellations..
(5) Primmipal amount of service monies de-
pestted in Japan, but mot transferred here
for ebt servise:
4.576.903.68
3720752
 to Interest ....
to Sinking Pund.........
or frane
 If stated in yen, please give pound sterling/equivalent.
Anel 2 2

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.80)
3.527.210
234.200
2.222.55
220
Pos.
PCS
30465.100
206
10,636,981.87
4,600
2.917.614.20
373855
6200

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.92)
(2) mrimsipel amount of bonds outstanding
of December 1941.
20.002
(2) Bosls retired for siaking fund purposes
by purehase, and eancelled in Japan...
120
(3) Prinoipal face amount in pounds of bonds
eomverted into intermal yen obligatioms.
these to inelude bonds -
Converted by order of the Govermment
720
Those otherwise converted
(4) Primsipal amount of bonds outstanding
outside Japan after the foregoing sink-
ing fund and comversion cancellations ..
75.160
(5) Prinoipal mount of service monies de-
posited in Japan, but nottransferred here
for debt service:
55.034.01
280,835
As to Interest .
5.697
in.m
As to sinking Mund
6229
or frane
 Ir stated in yen, please give pound sterling/equivalent.
 Por this loan, please state yen equivalent in each instance.

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.87)
Glty ef Tokle City of olakem
Toko Deet. P.
581926-1261
58.1909-195h
58.192501965
262800
515.120
70.576
666500
821.780
15.740
1.704.660
4.122.020
499.380
70.576
1.771.481.764.426.761.08487.544.68
48.903.32
2.580,741.66
18162002459.4224/049.998
7.057 12/0
22
yos.

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
l
THE LEGAL ADVISER
November 2, 1948
894.51
MEMORANDUM
tme
Mr. James B. Hannah in a personal letter, inquired as to
the present value of certain Japanese bonds held by Mr. George
P. Hoke and as to what he should do with them.
The bonds are as follows:
BONDHOLDERS/I1-248
City of Tokyo
5-1/2 gold
2,000
Imperial Japanese
Government
5-1/2 gold
2,000
Oriental Development
5-1/2%
2,000
Company
Tokyo Electric
Lights
6%
2,000
Jantatre
FILED
894.5 1Bond Roedecw
5278
CS/B
248
L:L/C:Joseph B Matre:jw

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.93)
NOV
Da reply refer to
G
a
BONDHOLDERS/11-248
 dear . Hannah:
Reference is made to psur inquiry eoneerming the Japamese
bonds held by Mr. George Hoke.
It is the understanding of the Department that the Treamery
Department permitted the helders of Japanese bomds te write them
off for ineome tax purposes. While the bonds have no valwe at the
present time, so far as the Department is sware, it is meverthe-
less suggested that the holders of such bonds retain them watil
such time as final astion may be taken with respest to them.
Generally speaking, the Department considers that invest-
ments in foreign securities are primarily a private treasestiem
into which the purohaser voluntarily enters after ealeulatiem
of the risks involved. In case of default the holders have oaly
such local remedies as are open to them. It is met the prestise
of the Department to negotiate on behalf of Amerisan helders of
defaulted foreign bonds but the Department does endeavor to remder
such assistance as it appropriately can te the Amerieam belders
of such bonds. However, the Department is wmable to state at
this time what assistance might appropriately be rendered or what
provisions, if any, relating to Japanese bonds may be contaimed
in the Japanese peace treaty.
With respect to the general subjeet of defaulted fereig
bonds attention is invited to the Foreign Bondholders Pretestive
Couneil, Ine., 90 Broad Street, New York 4, New York, whieh was
68
established
r. James B. Hannah,
Snyder, Gale, Hoke, Richards & Janes,
1430 Rand Tower,
Hmeapolis 2, mesot
LIP
S

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.91)
the Bepartment, it aste en its em respessibility.
Sinesrely yours,
Par the Acting Sesretary of States
Jeseph B. Matre
Assistant to Legal Adviser
√
NOV
L:L/C:JosephBMatre: jw
November 2, 1948

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.93)
FORM DS-516
5-13-47
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
CLERK'S
FILE NUMBER
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT
CHARGE TO-
DATE OF CHARGE
INITIALS
OFD
Thimo
8-29.0
Levendy
Dm
894.51 Bauel he cdera
rc. lannak
Jamco B.
/11-248
11-2-48
It to Hannah
11-3-48

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
November 23, 1948
To:
FN
NOV 2 1 1948
L/C
From:
The attached letter from H. H. Bloch is referred
to you for action as it concerns a claim on bonds
guaranteed by the Japanese Government.
In case you wish to refer to the War Claims Ast,
in your reply there is enclosed, for your use, a copy
of the Department's memorandum of November 3, 1948 re-
garding the War Claims Act. In sending this momoran-
dum to claimants whose claims are not authorised to be
paid under the Act, we have been advising claimants
that their letters will be held in the files of the
Department for possible future eamination by the War
Claims Commission.
Q.U. Sraleigh

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
November 23, 1948
Tos
From:
L/O
Subject: File No. 894.51 Bondholders/11-1548
The attesbed letter from N. H. Blech is refesred
to you for action as it coneerms a elaim om bonds
guaranteed by the Japanese Govermment.
In ease you wish to refer to the War Claims het,
in your reply there is emelosed, for your wse, a eepy
af the Department's memorandum of November 3, 1948 re-
garding the War Claime Let. In sending this memeram-
dum to elaimaats whese elaims are mot authorised to be
paid mder the let, we have beem advising claimants
that their letters will be held in the files of the
Department for possible future exmminatiom by the War
Glaims Commission.

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.94)
DCR: Room -467
Please record and return in
LEGAL ADVISER
NOV4LZ1948
DEPARIMENT OF STATE

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.95)
OVISION OF
NOV 24 19482-4-1
fir-Gocolisa:go
NOV 18 1948
25 Pleasant Street,
DEPT. CF STATE
Danbury, Conn.
5
DC/R
November 15,1948.
LEGAL ADVISER
Legal Adviser,
169
NOV 22 1948
Department of State,
Redened to FN 11/23148
Washington , D.C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Sir:
My inquiry to the office of Alien Property has been
referred to you and I therefore write you regarding same.
I haveheld since long before the war, some Tokyo
Electric Power Company Bonds, guaranteed by the government
of Japan. Naturally, during the war, I felt that nothing
could be done about it. However, I understand that .olaims
are being accepted now either by the Alien Ppoperty Depart-
ment or by the State Department, and I should very much like
to know what action I can take to recover on my holdings.
1788
Any help or advice you can give me will be greatly appreciated.
Very truly yours,
JUN12 1951
H. H. Bloch.
FILED
LA
MS UNIT
In
/11-1548
B
Rov.
Cat

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.96)
DEC.
Jap hold
In reply refer to
N 894.51 Bondholders
/11-1548
894.51
My dear Mr. Blook:
Reference is made to your letter or November 15,
1948, regarding your Tokyo Electrio Power Company
bonds.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not possible
BONDHOLDERS/II-1548
at the present time, but the following may be helpful
to your understanding of the Department's poliey with
respeot to such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreim
securities is primarily a private transaction into which
the purchaser enters after caloulation of the risks in-
AR894.643
volved. In the case of bonds issued or guaranteed by
foreign governments, as were the Tokyo Eleetrie Power
Company bonds, it is not the praotice of the Department
to negotiate directly for American holders, but it does
endeavor to render to these holders or their representa-
tives such assistance as it properly can. In this com-
neotion attention may be called to the Foreign Bondholders
Protective Counoil, Inoorporated, 90 Broad Street, New
York, New York, a non-prorit organization created several
years ago to serve as a central representative body. You
may wish to write to the Council regarding your bonds and
ask that it keep you informed of any important developments
affeoting them.
Some time ago the Department transmitted to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokyo, a com-
plete list or the dollar bonds floated in the United States.
This list was forwarded at the request of the Couneil, for
the information of the Supreme Commander, and for sueh use
as might be appropriate for the proteetion of the Amsrieam
interests involved. Subsequently, again at the request of
the Couneil,
2H
Mr. H. H. Block
md
25 Pleasant Street,
CS/
Danbury, Conneetiout.
B

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
request that a report be made gfon the advisability
of restoring the mortgages prohiously securing eer-
tain dollar bond issues, ineluding the Tokyo Elestrie
Power Company issue, which mortgages had been eaneelled
during the war, when the Japanese Government assumed
direot liability for the issues. No reply has yet
come to hand, but you might ask the Couneil, when you
write, to inform you of the substanee of any reply that
may be reeeived in the future.
It will be appreciated that the Department is
unable to state now what, if any, provisions, may be
included in the Peace Treaty with Japan. As you kmow,
there will be many claims and demands against Japan
and against Japanese companies, of which such oblige-
tions as those to which you refer will probably com-
stitute only a small part. Nevertheless, the Department
will be glad to make a record, for sueh future use as
may be appropriate, of any information you may furmish
to it rogarding your bonds. This information should
include the facts concerning the date and manner of
your acquisition of them, the purchase price, and the
date and manner (whether by birth or naturalisation)
of your acquisition of American citizenship. Ir eitisen-
ship was acquired by naturalization there should be
given also the name and location of the Court granting
it and the number of the relative certificate.
Meanwhile, there is enclosed for your information
a Memorandum regarding the War Claims Aot of 1948. You
will note that letters from claimants whose claims are
not authorized to be paid under the Act will be held in
the Department's files for possible future examination
by the War Claims Commission.
Sincerely yours,
For the Segrotary of State:
James C. Corliss
Assistant Chier
Divieion of Financial Affairs
N18
Enclosure:
A Memorandum regarding the
War Claims Aet of 1948.
S/S-CR
L/em
OFD:FN:JcCorliss:yw
12-1-48

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.86)
41641
Mattaparett
11Laes
Dc/
NOV 2 9 1948
Washing Ton LU STATE
70
1948
Thave a bond: Gity of yokalome
BONDHOLDERS
6y, ex ternal loan 1961. purchased do
December 8 1926. I was a little late
im reporting this to the then Proferty
894,
2
time to mathe chaim mder it
15
BONDA
rè make that I might communicat
with you for fuither mfomation.
5
Will you, please mifom me if
ERS
3339
Mitre is anythny I can do now

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.86)
to give this bond any valuc, an if Bend
recommndation mode Mat Grrguces
exlend the tme for clarins on such
bonds.
Riskeetfully yours
NC
V7
a 

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.98)
DEC1719
In reply refer to
FN 894.51 Bondholders/
11-1948
BONDHOLDERS/11-1948
My dear Mr. Holmes:
Reference is made to your letter of November 19,
1948, regarding your City or Yokohama bond.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, but the following may be helprul to your
understanding of the Department's polioy with respeet
to suoh obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private trunsaotion into which the
purchaser enters after oeloulation of the risks involved.
In the case of default on dollar bonds issued by or
guaranteed by governmental entities, as are the Japanese
bonds mentioned in your letter, it is not the praotioe
of the Departuent to negotiate aireotly for Amorican
holders, but it does endeavor to render suoh assistanoe
as it properly can to such holders or their representa-
tives. In this conneotion attention may be oalled to
the Foreign Bondholders roteotive Counoil, Ineorporated,
90 Broud Street, New York, New York, which was organized
several years ago to serve as a central representative
body. Although it was established with the encouragement
or the Department, the Council aots on its own respons-
894.57
ibility. some time ago, at the request of the Counoil,
the Department transmitted to the United States Politioal
Adviser to the Supreme Comnander for the Allied Powers,
at Tokyo a complete statement regarding the dollar bonds
issued or guaranteed by Japanese governmental entities.
This statement was sent for the information and use of the
Politioal dviser and of the appropriate seotion of the
Staff of the Supreme Commander, and for suoh aotion as
might be considered appropriate in the proteotion of the
Amerioan
Mr. Jonathan H. Holmes,
C
S
Mattapaisett, Massachusetts.

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
American interest involved. The Department believes
that the Counoil is mindful or the interests of Ameriean
holders of such obligations and that it will, when oeca-
sion offers, take suoh steps as it oonsiders to be to
the advantage of the holders. You may wish to write to
the Counoil in conneotion with the bonds mentioned by
you.
It will be appreoiated that the Department is not
in a position to state now what provisions, if any,
affecting such obligations, may be oontained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provision for olaims
arising from the war may be made. as you doubtless know,
there will be many claims and denands ugainst Japan, and
againat Japanese munioipalities and persons, or which
suoh obligutions as those to whioh you refer will probably
constitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department is always glad to make
a record, for such consideration as muy be found to be
appropriate, of any information merican holders of
defaulted foreign dollar bonds may wish to send to it.
This information should inolude the pertinent faots
desoribing and identifying the bonds (name of obligor,
interest rate, dates of issue and maturity), the date
and manner of purohase and the purchase prioe. There
should be given also a statement regarding the date and
manner of the holder's acquisition of Amerioan citizen-
ship, and if citizenship was acquired by naturalization
there should be given the name and location of the Court
granting it und the number of the relative certiricate.
Ir it should be found advisable for individual holders of
such obligations to take steps in the matter, the Depart-
ment will endeavor to have due publioity given to the
fact.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
DEC 17 1948
James C. Corliss
Asbistant Chiof
Diviadon of Financial Arfairs
S/S-CR
OFDAN:JCCorliss:yw 12-14-48

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.98)
41845
P. 0. Box 9131,8taton S,
Los Angeles, California.
ACTION
November 22, 1948.
DECI5N
FU
DEC-1948
LEGAL
ENT OF STATE
12-13-48
U. S. State Department,
DEC3
Washington, D. C.
1948
Attention of Legal Adviser.
STATE
Dear Sir:
I have been advised by the Office of Alien
Property, Department of Justice, to communicate with
894.51
you in regard to a $1000 City of Yokohama, External
Loan of 1926, Sinking Fund 6% Gold Bond due Dec. 1,
1961, Number 16779, which I own. It seems that the
assets of the New York Agency of The Yokohama Specie
Eank, Ltd., were taken over by the Liquidation Bu-
reau of the State of New York Banking Department on
December 8, 1841. This agency of the Yokohama Specie
Bank was the fiscal agent in this country of various
BONDHOLDERS/II-2248
Japanese communitles and maintained a coupon account
out of which the sinking fund and coupon payments of
the City of Yokohama External Bonds, as well as others,
were paid.
In October, 1946 an order of the Supreme
Court of New York County directed the Superintendent
of the State of New York Banking Department to turn
over the assets of the Yokohama Specie Bank, held by
his office as liquidator, to the Custodian o Alien
Property, Justice Department, U. S. Govt. These assets
were presumably to be used to pay certain ctaim of
holders of Japanese bonds, including the Cit o Yoko-
hama externals. However, I have been advised&by the
Office of Alien Property Custodian that it was now
too late to recognize my claim for payment, as the
time for filing claims against the assets so held ex-
pired on August 8, 1948. It was suggested that the
matter be brought to the attention of the Legal Ad-
viser, State Department.
What I cannot understand is the apparent
lack of publicity given to the proceedings outlined
above, as evidenced by the lack of information shown
by bankers and brokers, who should have known the
S
3651

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.99)
2
facts, when asked about the status of this bond.
After many fruitless inquiries at offices of various
investment brokers and branches of the Bank of Amer-
1ca and the Federal. Reserve Bank of Los Angeles, I
was told last June to write to the Foreign Funds
Control Dept. of the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York. Enclosed find true copies of letters of in-
quiry and replies received in the matter from that
time to the present.
Please give me your considered opinion on
the following questions and advise me what action,
if any, I may take at the present time to assure
payment to me of past due and future interest as
well as principal:--
1. Will the time for filing claims against
the assets acquired from The Yokohama Specie Bank
and held by the Office of Alien Property Custodian
be extended?
2. If not, does this mean that bondholders
who did not file claims before the August 8 dead-
line will never recover past due interest and
principal?
3. Will not the United States Govt. insist
that the Japanese Govt. and its political subdi
visions pay both principal and interest due on
their prior financial obligations, especially
those held by citizens of the United States?
4. If so, how soon may resumption of in-
terest payments be expected?
Very truly yours,
Lenise Hartfors.
(Mrs.) Louise Hartford
6 Encls.

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.99)
P. 0. Box 9131, Station 8,
Los Angeles, California.
June 15, 1948
Foreign Funds Control Dept.,
Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
33 Liberty Street, New York 45, New York.
Gentlemen;
Upon inquiry at the Federal Reserve
Bank of Los Angeles regarding the present
status of Japanese External Bonds was refer-
red to your department.
I am a native born citizen of The
United States of America and I am the owner
of a 1000 City of Yokohama, External Loan of
1926, "Sinking Fund 6% Gold Bond due Dec. 1,
1961, Number 16779. None of the coupons for
interest due have been cashed, of course,
since June 1, 1941.
Please tell me if any arrangement
has been made to pay the past due interest on
this lssue and to take care of future pay-
ments. What action should I take in the mat-
ter to receive payment?
Very truly yours
Signed
(Mrs.) Louise Hartford
A True Copy

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.99)
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF
NEW YORK
FISCAL AGENT OF THE UNITED STATES
New York 45, N. Y.
June 21, 1948.
Mrs.Louise Hartford,
P. 0. Box 9131, Station S,
Los Angeles, California.
Dear Madam:
In response to your letter of June
15, 1948, we suggest that you communicate direc-
tly with the paying agent of the bond to which
you refer.
Very truly yours,
per pro
Signed,
R. R. Tompkins,
Foreign funds Control
Dept.
A True Copy.

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.99)
P. 0. Box 9131, Stat1on S,
Los Angeles, California,
August 6, 1948.
The Yokohama Specie Bank, or its Successor,
New York City, New York.
Gentlemen:
I am the owner of a 1000 City of Yoko-
hama, External Loan of 1926, Sinking Fund 6% Gold
Bond due December 1, 1961, Number 16779. None of
the coupons for interest due have been cashed
since June 1, 1941.
Please tell me if any arrancements have
been made to pay the past due interest on this
issue and adviee me what action to take in the
matter.
Very truly youra,
signed,
(Mrs.) Louise Hartford
A True Copy.

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.99)
STATE OF NEW YORK
BANKING DEPARTMENT
LIQUIDATION BUREAU
80 SPRING ST.
NEW YORK 12, N. Y.
August 11, 1948.
Re: Yokohama Specle Bank, Ltd.
Mrs. Louise Hartford,
P. 0. Box 9131, Station #,
Los Angeles, California.
Dear Madam:
Your letter of August 6, 1948 addressed
to the Yokohama Specie Bank, Ltd., this city, was
delivered to us by the postal authorities as we
have been l1quidating that institution since Dec.
8,1941.
At the outbreak of the war with Japan
trading in Japanese securitles was suspended and
has not been resumed to date. Prior to closing
on December 8, 1941 the New York Agency of the
Yokohama Specie Bank was the paying agent for
varlous Japaneee bonds including City of Yokohama
External Loan 6% Bonds and it maintained a coupon
account out of which coupon and sinking fund pay-
ments were generally made. On October 20, 1946,
an order was entered in the Supreme Court, New
York County, directing the Superintendent Of Banks
as l1quidator of the New York Agency of the Yoko-
hama Specle Bank, Ltd., to pay over to the Alien
Property Custodian, pursuant to demand, the funds
in his possession in which the bondholders of the
various Japanese issues had asserted an interest.
Under a vesting order issued by the Alien Prop-
erty Custodian the Superintendent of Banks sur-
rendered this fund and other surplus assets in
his possession to the Custodian.
Pursuant to an amendment to the Tra-
ding with the Engmy Act the Office of Alien Prop-
erty is entitled to recognize and pay certain

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.99)
2
claims against the said bank. You might wish to
1nquire of that office whether they would enter-
tain a elaim for the bond mentioned in your let-
ter and if a claim may still be filed. A time
limit was placed on the filing of such claims
but we do not know whether the same has been ex-
tended. The headquarters of the Office of Alien
Property, Department of Justice, 1s Washington,
D. C.
Very truly yours,
Signed,
EDWARD FELDMAN
Special Deputy Superin-
tendent and Attorney.
A True Copy.

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.99)
P. 0. Box 9131, Station S,
Los Angeles, California,
September 25, 1948.
Office of Alien Property Custodian,
Department of Justice,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
I am a native born citizen of The United
states of America and am the owner of a $1000
City of Yokohama, External Loan of 1926, "Sinking
Fund 6% Gold Bond due Dec. 1, 1961, Number 16779.
None of the coupons for interest due have been
cashed, of course, since June 1, 1941.
After many fruitless inquiries at the
offices of stock brokers, Federal Reserve Banks,
etc., I have finally been referred to your office
by the )iquidation Bureau of the State of New
York Banking Department.
Please tell me if any arrangement has
been made to pay the past due interest on this
1ssue and advise me what action to take in the
matter.
Very truly yours,
Signed, (Mrs.) Louise Hartford
A True Copy.

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.99)
OFFICE OF ALIEN PROPERTY
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
File Number
October 11, 1948.
JS:RCM: J8g
034--65
Mrs. Louise Hartford,
P. 0. Box 9131, Station S,
Los Angeles, California.
Dear Mrs. Hartford:
Reference is made to your
letter of September 25, 1948.
The time for filing debts
against property of the City of Yokohama, ac-
quired by this office, expired August 8, 1948.
Since your letter also ap
pears to relate to matters within the juris-
diction of the State Department, you may wish
to communicate directly with that Department,
addressing your communication to the attention
of the Legal Adviser.
Sincerely yours,
Signed,
David L. Bazelon,
Assistant Attorney General,
Director, Office of Alien Property.
A True Copy.

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.97)
DEC151946
In reply refer to
FN 894.51 Bondholdera/
11-2248
BONDHOLDERS
My dear Nrs. Hertford:
Reference 1s made to your lotter of November 22,
1948, regarding your City or Yokohama dollar bond.
The first question asked in your letter is one
which can be answered only by the Offioe of alien
Property, since that Office, under the law, is charged
with the matter of olaims against Japanese assets vested
by this Government.
11-2248
A definitive reply to your other three questions
is not possible non, but the following may be helprul
to your understanding of the Department's polioy with
respect to such obligations.
The Department considers thet investment in foroign
government bonds is primarily a private transaction into
whioh the purohaser enters after caloulation of the risks
involved. In case of dofault it is not the praotioe of
the Department to negotiate directly for Amerioan holdors,
but it does endeavor to assist these holders or their
8
representatives to the extent it properly can. In this
connection attention may be o lled to the Foreign Bond-
holders Proteotive Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Stroet,
New York, New York, a non-prorit organization created
several years ago to serve as a central representative
body. Although the Counoil was established with the
encouragement of the Department, it operates on its own
responsibility. You may wish to write to the Counoil
and ask that it keep you informed of any important
developments affecting your bond.
some
C
C
Mrs. Louise Hartrord,
P. 0. Box 9131, tation S,
11-2248
Los Angeles, California.
13

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
Some time ago the Department, at the request of
the Counoil, transmitted to the appropriate authorities
in Japan a complete statement or Japanese dollar bonds
outstanding, inoluding those of the City of Yokohama.
This statement was sent for the information of the
authorities in question, and for their possible use in
the proteotion or the American interest involved.
It will be appreciated that the Department is unable
to state now what provisions, if any, affecting these
obligations, may be contained in the Peace Treaty with
Japan, or whut arrangements may be made for payment of
claims arising from the war. As you know, there will be
many claims and demands against Japan and Japanese muniei-
palities, of which suoh obligations as that to whioh you
refer wiil probably constitute only a small part. Never-
theless, the Department will be glad to make a record of
your holding, for such future oonsideration as may be
appropriate. It is suggested that you inform the Depart-
ment of the date and manner of your aoquisition of the
bond, and the purohase price. You should also indieate
the dute and manner (whether by birth or naturalization)
of your acquisition of Amerioan citizenahip, and if
oitizenship was aoquired by naturalization, there should
be given the name and location of the Court granting 1t
and the number of the relative oertifioate. If it should
be found advisable for individual holders to take steps
with respeot to these obligatlons, the Department will
endeavor to have due publioity given to the fact.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
James C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
DEC 141948
OPD:FN:JCCorliss:yw
12-13-48
S/S-CR

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.96)
FEB 41949
In reply refer to
N894.51 Bondholders/
12-2348
My dear Mr. Inouye:
Reference is made to your letter of December 23,
5
1948, regarding your Tokyo Eleotric Light Company bonds.
1
2
BONDHOLDERS
These bonds have been in default sinee the begin-
2
ning of the war. ith reference to the filing of 
3
olaim relative to them, you may wish to write to the
4
Ofrice of Alien Property, Department of Justice, Washing-
ton, D. C., and seoure authoritative information in the
8
matter. The information furnished by you to the Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco was desired by the Treasury
Department for the purpose or making a census or foreign
holdings and did not constitute the filing of a olaim in
C
any way.
S
A more definitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, but the following may be helprul to your undery
standing or the Department s position with referenee to
such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into whioh the
purohaser voluntarily enters after calculating the risks
894
involved. In the oase of obligations issued by private
entities, as were the Tokyo Electric Light Company bonds,
it is assumed that mericen holders will be prepared, if-
5
necessary, to avail themselves of the usual methods to
secure enforcement of any rights they may possess, when
resort to suoh measures becomes practicable. However,
the fact that these bonds were guaranteed by the Japanese /
Government may place them in a somewhat differens category
for practical purposes. In the case of obligations issued
or guaranteed
. UNIT
Mr. Shigeto Inouye,
Rte. 3, Box 151,
Phoonix, Arizona.
5

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
or guaranteed by governmental entities, mhile it is mot
the practiee of the Department to negotiate direstly
on behalr or American holders in case of default, it
does endeavor to render such assistance as it appro-
priately can to them or their representatives. Im this
conneetion your attention may be called to the Foreigs
Bondholders Protective Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad
Street, New York, New York, whioh was established several
years ago to serve as a central representative body.
The Counoil was organized with the eneouragement of the
Department, but it acts on its own responsibility. It
is understood that the Counoil is interesting itself in
such obligations as those held by you and you may wish
to write to it in conneotion with them.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not
in a position to state at the present time what provi-
sions, if any, may be inserted in the peace treaty with
Japan regarding such obligations, or what arrangements
for payment or claims arising from the war may be made.
You are doubtless aware that there will be many olaims
and uemands against the Japanese Government, and against
persons and municipalities in that country, of which such
bonds as those owned by you will probably constitute only
a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department will be glad to make a
record of your holdings, for such future consideration as
may be appropriate, if you are an American citizen. It
is suggested, therefore, that you submit to the Depart-
ment a statement of the date and manner (whother by birth
or naturalization) of your acquisition of merican citizen-
ship. If you acquired citizenship by naturalization, it is
requested that you give also the name and location of the
court in which you were naturalized and the number of your
certifioate.
If it should later be found advisable that Ameriean
holders of such obligations as these should take any
further action, due announcement will be made in the
public press.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State
FEB 4 1949 P.M.
James C. Corliss
Agaistant Chier
Divisiop of Finanoial Affair
OFD:FN:JCCorliss:yw
2-3-49
S/S-CR

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.89)
is assigned to
114
Recember 23, 19
UTD
42819
Advrion
LEGAL ADVISER
JAI
c
DEPT. OF STA
FN-Colcia yw
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
7
Dear Sei:
S oun 7- #1000 Tokyp Electic light
BONDHOLDERS/12-2348
C. Std. Bonds. I shale appreciate il if
you lan tell me the present status 
These bonds and if the interent can be
casked at this preseut time. A reporled
The above tonds ts the Federal Reseve Bank
of San Franaines on Form TFR500: Lenams
Please adocia me if I have to file
kind attention, S remain
ED
Yours truly
894.51 Borthals
Shigeto I nonge
CS/
Rle. 3 Box 151
11373

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTION
Jonathan H. Holmes
is assigned to
MATTAPO
281948
Dec23 1945
Lspartment of SHate
BC/R
WashinigtonD.C.
Dear Dris:
894.
F.N. 894.51 Bondholdain
 OF  A
DEC 8 1948
2-7-49 11-1948
FON-Coreesd:yW
ETOFSAI hank you fou you
BONDHOL
the steps indicated.
R
But non't I need some mdosement
S
or tome certificate to attach to the
bond to thow J am a athjen
894.51 Boholden
and have a
legitimate clan
the bond
21951
LED
CS/B
ueselae my butt certititate

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.89)
showning I waa bom m Mattaporieth
2
Mass U. S.h. Oct. 18 1876 and.
That my father and mother were
abo native bon. (I wils appre
ciate having the ceithjicate re-
Identifying the bond maer
which I want to claim: It is
One Ore Thousand Doecar
bity oIYo kohama 6% Extermal
Loan due 1961. I baught it at
on abont the thine og issne, to
wit: Decamber 1926, from a
fiim on brokers in haw gan
Cis through a customers man
who was a classmath.)I
think the exace date was

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.89)
3.
Dec. 8 1926. I tuat this covers
the nifomation you regaine.
Ipresume ang question abont
my time to make Claim hoving
expired shauld be taken up
with th Foreign Bondhoediro
Proteetie Comcil to which
you refer. I shace sppreciate
any further pugseshons that
ccrcumstanccs may ridicate, andd
I an srateful for gour comprohent
sive letter on the natter.
Tharkny you
I am
bey respectfula, Yrars
Jonathon #Hms

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.90)
168
2
Commonwealth of Massarhusrtts.
 CERTIFICATE OF BIRTH
Dom of Mattaprisst July, 1809
Abnu Halur
3.
...hereby Certify
that I have examined the Records of Births in said Town and find recorded
therein the Bith of Jomathan H Holm
The Record i in the following words and figures, to wit:
DATE OF BTH, Oct 18.1876.
cozon. hits Sex. V/all conDrioN.
SINGLE
TwIN ETC.
Mattaprisict
PLACE OF BIRTH,
NAUES oF PAENIS, Riutm F Holm . Aphelia B Borla.
Mauafrisutts
OCCUPATION OF FATHER. S trif wright
BIRTHPLACE OF FATHER, Firram
BIRTHPLACE OF MOTHER Prehist
3. Abui Hailw
above named, depose and say that I hold the office of Town Clerk of the Town
Mastgpinsett
County of
Records of Births, Marriages and Deaths in the said Town are in my custody,
and that the above is a true extract from the Record of Births in said Town,
as certified by me.
Witmess my hand and seal of the said Town,
on the day and year first above written.
06nu Halnu
(SEAL)
Town Clerk.

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.95)
FEB 8194
In reply refer to
894.51 BONDHOLDE
N 894.51 Bondholders/
12-2348
My dear Mr. Holmes:
Reference is made to your letter or December 23,
/12-23
1948, regarding your City or Yokohama bond.
No indorsement or certificate is necessary in
conneotion with your bond at the present time. Should
proof of American citizenship be necessary at some time
in the future, the Department will have due publioity
4
E
given to the faot.
S
The birth certificate and the data regarding your
bond will be plaoed in the Department's records for
such future use as may be found appropriate.
CS/M
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
894.51Bm
James C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
FEB 8 1949P.M.
15
Mr. Jonathan H. Holmes,
Mattapoisett, Massachusetts.
OFD:FNJCCorliss:yw
2-7-49
S/S-CR

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.96)
42737
ACTION
is assigned to
P. 0. Box 9131, Station 8,
NOFD
Los Angeles, California
December 28, 1948.
RECEIVED
JAN 3 1949
TE
Your File:- FN 894.51 Bondholders/
Dcn
11-2248
DCI
The Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
894.51 B0NDHOLDERS/12-2848
JAN 51949
Attention James C. Corliss,
Corlies: yu 2-3-49
Assistant Chief,
MENT OF STAT
Division of Financial Affairs.
Dear Sir;
This will acknowledge receipt of your letter
of December 15, 1948, in answer to my letter of inquiry
dated November 22, 1948.
For your record will give the following data
in regard to the bond I hold;-
City of Yokohama, External Loan of 1926,
Sinking Fund 6% Gold Bond due Dec. 1, 1961,
Number 16779.
Amount $1000.00
Bought from dealer in Investment Securities
on Apri1 1, 1927 as an investment.
Purchase price @ 94 3/4 947.50 & accrued int.
Last interest payment received from oupon
payable June 1, 1941.
1
2
19
birth 1n New York City in December of 1879, my parents
894.51 Bondh
being American citizens.
Harford.
(Mrs.) Louise Hartford
cns
VVL
X人
CS/B
11220

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.97)
41949
FEB
In reply refer to
 894.51 Bondholders/
12-2848
Fu894.51132
My dear Mrs. Hartford:
Reference is made to your letter of Desember 28.
1948, furnishing to the Department eertain in ormation
regarding your City of Tokohama bond.
The Department has made a record of the data sub-
mitted by you, for such future use as may be found
appropriate.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
James C. Corliss
Assistant Chief
Division or Financial Arrairs
FEB
4..949P.M.
Mrs. Louise Hartford,
P. 0. Box 9131. Station S,
Los Angoles, California
C.D.UNIT
S/S-CR
OFD:FN:JCCorliss:yw
2-3-49
B

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.84)
The Srate Separt
FMOTD
athington
etteavion teererary he
小s.
DQ
JAN 31 1949
by buging a "1000 Bond ofxa Onty 86
894.
2
8
quaronteed b ta Jotoneed gercnm
6
Then arn kon peging intereon 200
-an lkey paginy into tan Sirking
furd as agreed.
CS/E
Day wee on caeer fonds?
Thook yun
JUN12 1951
5
FILED
E.I. Rurdick
DL
2360-N-53-s+
I Milwankee
17961
Jan 28-1449
Vis.

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.97)
MAR 9 1949
In reply refer to
1594.51 Bondholders
/2-2849
My dear Mr. Burdick:
Reference is made to your letter of January 28,
894.51
1949, acknowledged by the Department on February 21,
1949, relat1ve to a $100000 City of Tokyo bond due
1961 whioh you hold.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, but the following may be helpful to your
BONDHOLDERS
understanding of the Department's policy with respeet
to such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into which the
purchaser enters after calculation of the risks involved.
/1-2849
In the case or default on dollar bonds issued by or
guaranteed by governmental entities, it is not the prae-
tice of the Department to negotiate directly for American
holders, but it does endeavor to render such assistanee
as it properly can to such holders or their representa-
tives. In this connection attention may be called to
the Foreign Bondholders Proteotive Council, Ineorporated,
90 Broad Street, New York, New York, which was ergamized
several years ago to serve as a central representative
body. Although it was established with the eneouragement
of the Department, the Council acts on its own respoms-
ibility. Some time ago, at the reguest of the Counoll.
the Department transmitted to the United States Political
8
C
Adviser to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
S
at Tokyo a complete statement regarding the dollar bonds
issued or guaranteed by Japanese governmental entities.
S
This Statement was sent for the information and use of the
Political
Mr. E. F. Burdick,
2360 N. 53d Street,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
DOR-QFD UNIT
Anal
cc
Rev.
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Politieal Adviser and of the appropriate seetiem of the
Staff of the Supreme Commander, and for sush metiom as
might be considered appropriate in the protestiom ef the
American interest involved. The Department believes that
the Council is mindful of the interests of Amerieam helders
of such obligations and that it will, when oeeasion offers,
take such steps as it considers to be to the advantage ef
the holders. You may wish to write to the Couneil in
conneetion with the bond mentioned by you.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not
in a position to state now what provisions, if any,
affecting such obligations, may be contained in the
Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provision for olaims
arising fron the war may be made. As you doubtless kmow,
there will be many claims and demands against Japan, and
against Japanase municipalities and persons, of which
such obligations as thet to whioh you refer will probably
constitute but a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department is always glad to make
a record, for such consideration as may be found to be
appropriate, of any information American holders of
defaulted foreign dollar bonds may wish to send to it.
This information should include, in addition to that
contained in your letter of January 28, 1949, a statement
regarding the manner and date of your acquisition of
American citizenship. If citizenship was acquired by
naturalization, there should be given the name and loea-
tion of the Court granting it and the number of the rele-
tive certiricate. If it should be found advisable for
individual holders of such obligations to take further
steps in the matter, the Department will endeavor to have
due publicity given to the fact.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
1949 P.M.
Jane. Corliss
Assistant Chier
Division of Financial Affairs
29
OFD:FN:JeemriVi.Johes: yw
3-3-49
S/S-CR

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.83)
Can Dee a Trea
7. L JOND
Bunday Bchool Supt
DG
FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH
REV. I. E. ENLOW, PASTOR
BELLE GLADE, FLA.
PHONE 190
iP
February 26, 1949
State Department
ds Palme
Washingtth, W..
Dear Sirs;
68
4
war with the Federal peserve Ba
of Clveland.
Tleace infornm me of the
RY
status and vaiue' of this thonusand
dallar bond soon to fale due.
The Federal Reserve Bank
of New lork, Forigu Funds Coutral aly
6
ment uggested wiito you for
information, Frunds that wee doposited
in New fork to take care af theke boud
H
E Enlals

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.97)
JUN 319
894.51
La reply refer to
FN
My dear Mr. Enlow:
BONDHOLDERS/2-2649
Reference is made to your letter of February 26, 1949
seeking information concerning an Oriental Development Bond
guaranteed by the Japanese Government which you hold. It is
regretted that a reply to your letter has been so long delayed.
At present it is not possible to make any definitive state-
ment in regard to the future of the bond which you owm or, in
fact, to any of the obligations of Japanese Corporations or the
Japanese Government. The question of treatment of claims against
Japan will ultimately be determined by Congress after recemmemls-
tions are made by the War Claims Commission relative to categeries
of claims to be considered and to the disposition of Japanese
assets which may renain after the payment of certain types ef
claims for which provisions have already been legislated. It
is possible that hold ers of Japanese Government or Geverment-
guaranteed securities may have to rely upon action by the Japenese
Government after a peace settlement to restore valus to their in-
vestment.
In general, the Department considers that investment in
fereign bonds is primarily a private transaction inte whish the
purchaser enters after calculation of the risks invelved. In
case of default on dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by gevern-
mental entities, as was the bond held by you, it is notthe practice
of the Department to negotiate directly for American holders, but
it does endeavor to render to them or to their representatives
such assistance as it properly can. In this connection attention
may be called to the Foreign Bondhold ers Protective Couneil, Incorporated,
90 Broad Street, New York, New York, a non-profit organisation
created several years ago to serve as a central representative
894.
body. Iou may wish to write to the Counoil and ask that it keep
CS/H
you informed of any important developments affecting your bonds.
However,
FH
2
ω)
The Reverend
2-26
I. E. Enlew,
First Baptist Church,
ha
Belle Glade, Florida.
D:st.

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Hewever, the Department will be glad te maks a reserd ef
your bondholding for sash fature use as may be feund appregriate.
Should future develepments indicate that action by bendhelders
is necessary, the Department will endeavor to see that due pablisity
is given for their information.
with respect to funds for cond service which ware deposited
with the paying agent in Bew York and were blosked at the outhreak
of the war, applications for liosnses to umbleck these fimds will
be considered by the Ofrice of Alien Property, Departsent of Justise,
120 Broadway, New York, New York. You may wish to seek further
information in this regard from the Office of Alien Preperty.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Socretary of State:
Gardner E. Palmer
Special Assistant
Division of Financial Afiairs
CR
JUN 3 1949P.M,
cas
OFD:FN:GEPalmer:hmg
5-23-49
L/C LE S/S-CR

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.97)
DCR
JUN 20 1949
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/3-449
CONFIDENTIAL
To the
American Consular Officer in Charge,
Taipei, Taiwan, China.
894.511 3ond lvede
The Acting Secretary of State encloses for the information
of the Consulate, a copy of a letter dated March 4, 1949 recsived
fram the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, Incerporated,
90 Broad Street, New York 4, New York, on the subject of dellar
bonds issued by the Taiwan Electric Power Company.
It is not known to the Department if the Taiwan Klectric
Power Company has been vested by the Chinese Government as an
enemy asset; if so, whether under Chinese law such vesting extends
to gross assets of the company, its assets in Taiwan, or only the
former Japanese interest therein; by whom the company is now omed;
by whom and for whose benefit it is being operated.
3
It is requested that the Consulate/approach the appropriate
authorities or officials of the company and obtain a statement of
the status of the company with particular reference to the record
of debt service by the company on the subject dollar bonds. Such
a statement should show amounts paid in debt servios in yen under
Japanese law subsequent to the first default on the bonds, and
what provisions, by reserves for dab' service or otherwise, have
been in effect since the termination of debt servise payments to
the Japanese Government. Information is also desired concerning
the principal amount of bonds showm to be outstanding om ths omgpany's
resords, differentiating between those bonds knowm to have been re-
patriated to Japan and converted into yen obligations, and those
held elswahere as dollar ebligations.
The Consulate/will note that the Council suggests a resumption
of service on this debt on the grounds that Taiwan has an ample
margin of trade balances. It is the Department's understanding
that even if this be true, the accruing foreign exchange resouroes
would be under the control of the Chinese authorities and that any
surplus would be diverted to other needs of that Government. The
Consulate's observations on this point would be appreciated, as
well as any suggestions relevant to the contents of the enelosed
S
letter.
Enclosure:
From Foreign Bondhelders Protective Council, Ine.,
CR
dated March 4, 1949.
JUN 17 1945
bmm
CONFIDENTIAL
D:FHEPalmershmg 6-6-49

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.95)
MAR 31 1948
In reply refer to
N 894.51 Bondholders/
3-449
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/3-449
ly dear r. hoers:
heference is fuue to your letter of march 4.
1949, regeraing thc reinstetement and meeting of
the re uirements of the outstanding dollar bonds
of the einaln lectric Fower compeny.
The beyart ment is givine cureful considerution
to the ma tter you huve pluceu before it in your lstter,
心
ind ill conuniccte v.ith you cs soon as possible rela-
tive to it.
ineerely yours,
For the  ecretury of tate:
L
rederick Livesey, dviser
Crrice of
rinancial una evelopment Policy
894.51Bnd
GR
CS/H
The Honoruble
James Grafton Kogers, President,
Foreign Bondholders Protectiv council,
Incorporateu,
90 Broad street,
MAR 29 1949
New York 4, New York.
3
MAR 31 1940
OFD::JCCorliss: yw
3-25-49
S/S-CR
C

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.96)
MAR 31 1949
In reply refer to
FN
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/3-449
My dear Mr. Hickey:
Reference is made to the Lepartwent's acknowlede
ment, dated March 10, 1949, of your letter of February
3, to the Treasury separtment, in conneotion with your
Japanese Government bonds.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, tut the following mey be helpful to your
understending of the Department's policy with respeet
to such obligations.
The Department considers thut investment in forein
securitics is primarily & privats transection into whioh
the purchaser enters after calculstion of the risks in-
volved. In the case of bonds issuea or guaranteed by
foreign governmental entities, it is not the practice
of the tspartment to negotiate directly for these holders,
but it does endeavor to render to them or their repre-
sentatives such assistance as it properly can. In this
connecticn attention mey be called to the Foreign Bond-
holders Protective Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street,
New York, New York, & non-profit organizution oreated
severel yetr's ago to serve as & centrel representative
body. AIthough the Council was established with the
encouragement of the Lepartment, it operetes on its own
responsibility. You may wish to write to the Counoil in
connection with the. bonds to which you refer and ask that
it keep you informed of eny importent developments affect-O
b
ing them.
S
h
It will be upprecieted thet the Department cannot
state aow what provisions, if any, afreoting such obliga-
tions may be contained in the Peace Treaty with Japan,
or what
Mr. Leroy C. Hickey,
DUR OrD UNIT
812 Janesville Street,
Whitewater, Wisconsin.
3

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
or what arrangements may be made for payment of elaims
arising from the war. As you kmow, there will be many
elaims and demands against the Japanese Government and
Japanese nationals, of which such obligatiens as these
to which you refer will probably constitute only a
small part. Nevertheless, the Department will be glad
to make a record, for such future use as may be appre-
priate, of any information you may wish to send to it
regarding your bonds. This information would inelude,
in addition to that contained in your letter, the date
and manner of purchase and the purchase price. There
should also be given the date and manner (whether by
birth or naturalization) of your acquisition of Amerioan
citizenship, and if citizenship wes acquired by natural-
ization, there should be indicated the name and locatiom
of the Court granting it and the number of the relative
certiricate. If it should be found advisable for indivi-
dual holders of such obligations to take further steps
with respect to them, the Department will endeavor to
have due publicity given to the fact.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Jemes C. Corliss
Assistant Chier
Division of Financial Affairs
MAR 30 1949 P.M.
OFD:FN:jCCorliss:yw
329-49
S/S-CR

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.94)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON 25
44532
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE
D/R
GIVISION OF FINCIN AFTAIRS
MAR 4 1949
ack 3/10/49
MAR 0-1949
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/3-449
ane FN-Jocnlia:qu
Dear Mr. Corliss:
There is transmitted herewith for consideration
and reply a letter from Mr. Leroy C. Hickey, White-
water, Wisconsin, concerning interest not received
on two Imperial Japanese Government bonds.
A copy of our acknowledgment to Mr. Hickey
is enclosed.
Very truly yours,
JUN 12 1951
George H. Willis
FILED
Acting Director
Mr. James C. Corliss
Division of Financial Affairs
Room 634, State Annex #7
Department of State
894.51 Bond holdas
Washington 25, D. C.
CSA
Enclosures
GH
h
九
036049

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.96)
MAR 4 1949
Dear Kr. Hickey:
This is to acknowledge your letter of pebruary 3,
1949, concerning two Imperial Japanese Covernment
bonds on which you have received no interest since
1942.
Inasmuch as this is a matter handled by the
Department of State, in connection with the pro-
tection of American interosts abroad, your letter
has been referred to that Department for considere-
tion and reply.
Very truly yours,
signed CEOnD I. WILLIS
George H. illis
Acting Director
Kr. Leroy C. Hickey
812 Janesville Street
Whitewater, Wisconsin
ka:B:1mk 3/3/49

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.84)
812
Whiter
Jet. 3, 14.
Teeasccry Dept, U.S. a.
Deau Greritary,
KI son tivo Imperi
Japanece Gooernment Bonde 
each, Esteenal Loan of 1930, Thirty 
year sinking frund, 52% Gred Bond
20ue may', T965. No interest ho bem
paid since May 'st 1942.
Are these bondo of any wal
now ? Thill interest ever te Gaidar
principal? Sfnot, hy not?
Thell be very grateful for ang.
this subject.
Sincerely yours
(Byg.x)

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.95)
Foreign Bondholders Protecdive Council, Inc
ACTION
Ninoty Broad Streot, Now York 4
is assigned 
RECEIVED
March 4, 1949
VISION OF L ATRS
MAR 8 1949
Ans.Fn- Jccrlead
D... TATE
MAR 11949
Di
DCR
OEPARTMENT OF STATT
Dear Mr. Secretary:
The Foreign Bondholders Protective Council respect-
fully calls to your attention the interests of American holders
of the bonds of the Taiwan Electric Power Company, located in
the Island of Taiwan, or Formosa. The Company is now, as we
understand it, under the de facto sovereignty of China, although
Taiwan is separately administered. We have learned that the
Economic Cooperation Administration is considering a substantial
loan for the improvement of the electric plant held by this Com-
pany. We write to ask that, if, as we trust is the case, the
other interests of the United States are consistent with such a
step, this Company should be called upon to reinstate and meet
the requirements of the remainder of its outstanding dollar bonds,
after consideration between the Company and the Department of
State, or the Economic Cooperation Administration, or this Coun-
cil, as you think best, of the technical financial steps involved
in payment of arrears and the resumption of service.
The Taiwan Electric Power Company, Ltd. (Taiwan Den-
ryoku Kabushiki Kaisha) was a corporation organised under the
laws of the Japanese Empire during the Japanese possession of
/3-449
the Island. It operates a large electric power plant, which
supplies almost all the electricity distributed for power,
fortiliser mamufacture and light on the Island. In 1931, as
appears from the records in our office, an issue of $22,800,000
40-year Sinking Fund 5k% Gold Bonds was issued in New York. The
bonds were guaranteed by the Imperial Japanese Govermment, but
the obligor is the Power Company. These bonds originally were
894.51 Bondholdersd
widely distributed through J. P. Morgan & Co., the Natiomal City
Company, Kuhn, Loeb & Co., and The First National Bank of N. Y.,
chiefly, if not wholly, to American investors. Regular service
was maintained until the attack upon Pearl Harbor, at which time
the Yokohama Specie Bank, as Fiscal Agent, reported as still out-
standing $19,573,000 principal amount. It would seem that after
ciins
The Secretary of State,
CSLA
Washington,
VVL
D. C.
3
3-449
Ua ded
29933
R

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.98)
this date and during the War, the Japanese Imperial Govermment
took various extraordinary steps in regard to this indebtedness,
in the course of which a considerable mmber of the bonds, which
by that time had been repatriated to Japan, were taken over from
Japanese nationals. At any rate, information which this Council
sought and was given through the good offices of the Department of
State after the occupation of Japan, reveals that according to
the records in Tokyo there are now outstanding outside of Japan
only $3,745,000 principal amount of bonds. There is no means of
ascertaining the individual owners of these bonds. Service has
been suspended since the closing of the Yokohama Specie Bank,
following the attack on Pearl Harbor, and even trading in them
was suspended by order of the United States Government. It seems
probable that the figure given us, if correct, covers chiefly
bonds held by nationals or residents of the United States, but,
in any case, all are publicly offered dollar bonds issued in the
American market, and therefore a matter of concern to us under the
international practice.
The circulars and documents connected with the original
issue of these bonds indicate that the contribution of the bond-
holders about equalled the previous capital invested in the
hydraulic system of this Company, so the Company may be considered
as having been built to a substantial extent by American capital.
The advance of new funds under consideration, which we understand
is in the neighborhood of $8,000,000, is an additional contribu-
tion of American capital to a plant which may already represent
a present investment of something in the neighborhood of $40,000,000.
The plant itself seems amply capable of meeting the obligations of
the outstanding dollar bonds, particularly as it would appear that
the only other known indebtedness is to the Japanese Government or
Japanese citizens, as near as we can learn. It would seem to us
appropriate for our Government to protect the interests of the
holders of the dollar bonds, to the extent that they are not in
Japanese hands, and our assumption would be that the Company would
have the approval of the authorities now governing the Island of
Taiwanin providing for the payment of arrears of service and the
rehabilitation of current and future interest and retirement pro-
visions. Taiwan has an ample plus margin in trade balances.
This letter follows some informal and oral communications
to the economic officers of the Department and is intended simply
to formalize our petition.
Respectfully submitted,
FOREIGN BONDHOLDERS PROTECTIVE
COUNCIL, Inc.
Fames fead ist legess
By
President.

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.89)
44775
Rte.3 sona 151
Phrenix, Aigona
MAR 15 1949
DC/R
March 9, 1948.
DCR
DEPT. OF STATE
N OF  AS
hlept. f tale U.5.A
MPA161942.21.09
Washungton 25, D.C.
894
12-2348
Rear Sir:
BON
Thank you for your lette g Fehruary
and for your bind suggestions. as to my
0
citigenship, A was bon at dos Angelen, Calip
on February 21, 1915. The local regiter no.
is 1304. I shall appreceate it becy much
Thanking you for your atlention, dam
Sincerely yous
CS/A
22
894.51 Bondkold
DCR - CLAIMS UNIT
epur.
3-949
30122

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.93)
ATHIN
Funst Dst, AAnsAs
Congress of the Hnited States
House of Representatives
AAR121918
Mashington
March 17, 1949
894.51 BONDHOLDERS 3-1749
ISION OF  
tyele
tr Eshon
Mr. E. W. Doherty
DERARTMESNT OF STATE
Room 615
Divasion of Financial Affairs
Department of State Annex 7
Washington, D. C.
Recorilese46
Dear Mr. Doherty:
enclosing herewith a letter from the Honorable Leo J. Mundt,
Attorney at Law, Helena, Arkansas regarding Japanese Imperial
Government Bonds.
I would appreciate your advising me whether or not
provisions will be made to care for these bonds or the American
Creditors.
Thanking you and with kind regards, I am
Yours sincerely,
Elyarhing
E. . Gathings
894.51132
bit
3-1749
enclosure 1
APRS
CrD UNIT
143156
CS/H

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.98)
LEO J. MUNDT
Attorney At Law
Helena, Arkansas
March 15th. 1949
Honorable E. C. Gathings
Washington D. C.
Dear Took:-
I am the owner and holder of some Japanese Imperial
Government Bonds issued before the war. Of course these
bonds could not be traded in or sold during the war and the
inhibition still applies. I have made repeated efforts to
get some information as to the bonds. It seems to me that
some one in the Government should be able to tell me whether
or not provision will be made to care for these bonds or the
American Creditors or whether, perhaps the Alien Property
Custodian will have in his hands property subject to dis-
tribution to the American Creditors.
Would you call the Alien Property Custodian and
ascertain what if anything is in prospect as to these bonds.
I have written to him but without avail. Please let me
know to whom I should write for information as to the question.
Somebody in the Government should be able to give me some
idea as to how to proceed.
With the best of luck to you and best wishes,
Sincerely your friend
Leo J. Mundt
Solomon Bldg.
C
O
P
Y

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.96)
44839
1541
MAR 1 2 1949
894.51
My dear Mr. Gathings:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter dated
Maroh 17, 1949 together with its enclosure, a letter
BONDHOLDERS
dated March 15, 1949 addressed to you by Mr. Leo J.
Mundt, Helena, Arkansas, concerning his claim on the
account of pre-war Japanese Imperial Government bonds.
It is the understanding of the Department that under
Section 34 of the Trading with the Enemy Aot, as amended,
the Office of Alien Property is authorised to pay olaims
of American croditors of persons whose property has been
vested by that Ofrice to the extent permitted by the value
of the vested property. This would inolude, of eourse,
claims against the Imperial Japanese Govermment. However,
the time for filing such claims expired on August 9, l948.
Unless Mr. Mundt placed the offiee of Alien Property on
3-1749
notice of his alaim before that date, it appears that amy
claim he may have had under Section 34 of the Trading
with the Enemy Act would now be barred.
In general the Department considers t hat investment in
foreign bonds is primarily a private transaction into which
the purchaser enters after calculation of the risks involved.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by
governmental entities, it is not the practiee of the Depart-
ment to negotiate directly for Amerioan holders, but it
does endeavor to render to them or to their representatives
such assistance as it properly can. In this counection
attention may be called to the Foreign Bondholders Proteetive
Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York, New York, a
non-profit
3
S
The Honorable
H
E. C. athingm
House of Representatives.
FCR-OFD UUIT

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.94)
mes-prefit organisatien sreated several years ege to
serve as a eentral representative body. Mr, Mndt may
wish to write to the Counell and ask that it keep him
informed of any impertant developments affesting his
bonds.
With respest to claims against the Japanese Geveramems
filed with the Ofrise of Alien Property, the Department
is informed that the total of sush claims is far in exsess
of the vested assets of Japan. Under these sireumstamees
any real recovery from investment in Japanese Goverment
bonds would be dependent upon conditions whish might at
some future time permit a resumption of debt servise.
No appeeiskß of the future of these secusities san be
made at this time, and no negotiations fur resumptien of
debt service are feasible in the near future.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Ernest A. Gross
Assistant Seoretary
Enclosure:
Letter of yareh 15.
CH
349
9.5.
OFP.
E
L/C
teemy
OFD:FN:GStrong/mjp
AF
4-6-49
g

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.97)
Congress of the United States m Brhapo
Ron 325
Jouse of Kepresentatibes
DOIR
Washington, D. C.
DIVISION OF
MORTHEAST ASIAN AERAIR
March 30, 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Mr. Satterthwaite:
Mr. R. B. Carlisle, Baltimore Hotel, 304 North Main,
Wichita, Kansas is the owner of 9,O00 in bonds of the City
of Yokohama. He says they were issued in December 1926, and
are due in l96l, and are guaranteed by the Japanese Govern-
ment.
894.51
He says he has just learned that these bonds should
have been registered with the Alien Property Custodian, De-
partment of Justice before August 9, 1948. He is also informed
that some move is being made with regard to the payment of
these bonds. He now wants to file a claim with the proper
authorities.
BONDHOLDERS/3-
It will be appreciated if you will let me know what
action may be taken to protect Mr. Carlisle on his investment.
Thanking you, I remain
Sinceroly,
JUN1 1951
FILED
Mr. Joseph C. Satterthwaite, Director
Office of Near Eastern and African Aff
Department of State
DIRECTOR
Washington 25, D. C.
MAR 30 1949
13-3049
958
MR. SATTERTHWAITE
R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
CS/F

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.89)
APP 1319
1527
My dear Mr. Bees:
Referense is made to your lester of Marek 30,
894.
1949 to Er. Joseph C. Satterthmite with respees to
the City of Iakakaan bends enaod by Mir. R. B. Garliale,
Baltimere Hetel, 304 Morth Main, Wiehita, Kansas.
It is the understanding of the Department that
under Seetion 34 of the Trading with the Emany Ast,
as amended, the Office of Alien Preperty is antheriand
B
te pay claims ef American erediters of persens whese
preperty has beem vested by that Offise to the extenk
DHOLDERS/3-3
he would have been entitled to file susk a alaime Bowever,
Ualess Mr. Carlisle plased the effiee of Alies Preperty m
the Enemy Act would now be barred.
The Department is infermed, hewever, that the total
of claims filed against the Japemese Gevermment is se far
-3049
in exeess of the assets of that Geverament vested by the
Alien Preperty Custodian that emly a mminal distribatiem
that even if Mr. Garliale had filed a elaim, any real reeevery
frem his iavestaent weald be dependest spem fatuve cenditiems
whick might seme time permit a resumptiem ef deht servies.
Covic aly,
The Hemerable
Ldward L. Rees,
Hease of Representatives.
S
 D UNIT
Ait
3
H
0
in

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.87)
-2-
Obvieusly, me defixitive appraisel of the future of
these seourities coam be made at this time, andme
megetiatiems fer resemptiem of deté serviee are eem-
templated at least until after & treaty of peese is
signed.
Da gemeral the Department censidere that isvestuens
in fereige bends is prisarily a private traasactiem inte
whiek the puraheser enters after ealenlatien of the riake
invelvede Ia case of default en dellar bende issued er
guarasteed by geveramestal estities, it is met the prastice
of the Departmask to megetiate direetly fer Amerieeps helders,
attentien may be ealled to the Fareign Bendkel ders Protectáve
Comeil, Incerperated, 90 Bread Steeet, Now Yeek, How Yoske
write to the Counell and ask that it keep him infermed of
any impertant develepmests affesting his bends.
Sinserely yours,
Fer the Seerotary of State:
Ermest L. Gress
Assistant Sesretary
Haom
MAX.I HE
S/s-eR
OFD:FN:GEPalmer;Mng
4005=69
APR 12 1940

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.98)
In reply refer to
9.51 Bondholders/5-249
MAY 31 1949
My dear Mr. Pearson:
Reference is made to your letter of May 2, 1949 con-
cerning $2,000 Imperial Japanese Governmant 52 peroent bonds
which you hold. You state that you understand you are required
to file a statament concerning these securities with the Department.
While it is not necessary for you to file any statement, the
894.51 BONDHOLDERS/5-249
Department will make a record of your holdings for such use as
may be found appropriate. It is believed that the declaration to
which you refer pertains to the fact that until August 8, 1948 the
Office of Alien Property, Department of Justice, was accepting
claims of the holders of foreign securities against the specific
assets of the respective obligors which may have been vested by
that agency. As the time for making such claims has expiered no
action is indicated by you. Of possible interest to you, the 
Department is informed by the Office of Alien Property that the
total claims against the Japanese Government so far exceeds the
funds of that Government which were vested in the United States,
that recovery to claimants is considered to be negligible.
It is probable that you will have to rely upon the action of
the Japanese Government after a peace settlement to restore value
to your securities, although the Department is not in a position to
state what provisions for Government bonded indebtedness may be in-
golved in such a peace treaty.
In general, the Department considers that investment in foreign
bonds is primarily a private transaction into which the purchaser
enters after calculation of the risks involved. In case of default
on dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by governmental entities, as
were the bonds held by you, it is not the practice of the Department
to negotiate directly for American holders, but it does endeavor
to render
4.51
Mr. Burt D. Pearson,
Birginia, Minnesota.
h
DCH- OFD UNIT
eg
CS/H

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
to render to them or to their representatives seeh assistames
as it preperly can. In this sonmestiom attentiom may be ealled
to the Fersign Bondhelders Protective Counsil, Ineerperated,
90 Bread Street, New Yerk, Mew York, & mon-prafit ergamisatiom
created several years age to serve as a central repressntative
body. You may wish to write to the Couneil and ask that it keep
ou infermed of any important developments affeeting your bemis.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Secretary of State:
Gardner E. Palmer
Special Assistant
Division of Financial Affairs
MAV 2~ 1949P. M.
OFD1FN3GEPalmer:hmg 5-26-49
8/8-OR

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION
MESABI DAILY NEWS
is assigned to
MOED
MAY 6 194S
ESTABLISHED IN 100S
PUBLISHEd DAILY EycEPT SUnDAY
BURT D. PEXREON.
THE EnTerprisE PRINTING AND PuBLISHInG COMpaNY
46159
VIRGINIA. MINN..
OIISTON OF  ARS
DC/R
MAY 9 1949
49
May 2, 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATY
Division of Foreign Service Administration,
State Department,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sirs:
51 BONDHOLDERS/5-249
I am the possessor of two bonds of the
Imperial Japanese Government, $2,000, issue
of External Loan of l930, 5t per cent 35-year
S/F Gold bonds due May 1, 1965. Trading in
the Unitad tabes has been suspended since
December 11, 194l, and I am just in receipt
of the information that some type of filing
of this security is to be mede with your de-
partment.
Can you supply me with detailed informa-
tion.
Yours very truly,
Burt D. Pearoor
BURT D. PEARSON,
Virginia, Minnesota.
894.5
CS/A
FILED
of
101651
X
147694

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.95)
JUL 2718
In reply refer to
894.51
894.51 Bendhalders/7-649
My dear Mr. Seamands:
Reference is made to your letter of July 6, 1949 with
BONDH0LDERS/7-649
respect to a $1000 Imperial Japanese Govermment Bend oamed
by Mrs. Seamands. You state that as a missionary she san-
not afford to lose the sum of money represented by this bend
and wish to be infermed of the procedure necessary to achieve
payment by the Japanese Government.
The Department regrets to inform you that there are no
such procsdures established and that at the present time the
Japanese foreign exchange situation dees not justify any trans-
fers of yen inte dallars for debt service. As you are prebably
aware the United States Government is expending substantial sms
in Japen in connection with the occupation and rehabilitation of
the Japanese ecenany.
A War Claims Canmission was established by the Soth Cengress
and is supposed to prepare a repert for the Congress conoerning
the bype of claims to be considered against the assets of ex-
enemy countries hold in the United States. The Department is
not in a position to state whether this recommendation and the
subsequent action by the Cengress will result in sueh treatment
fer holders of Daperial Japanese Government Bonds.
It is presumed that such holders will have to rely upon the
resumption of service on their securities at some future date by
the Japanese Government to restore value therete. In this regard
you may wish to write to the Foreign Bondholders Protective Counell,
8
Inc., 90 Broad Street, New York, New Yark, a contral representative
of holders of dollar bonds issued by goverments and municipalities
thereaf.
H
G
Sincerely yours,
CR
For the Sepretary of State:
JUL 6 194 PM
Gardner S. Palmer
Special Assistant
Divisien of Financial
Mr. E. A. Sasmands,
7-6.49
The Methedist Chrch,
Gulbarga, Decoan, India.
OFEUIN:CEPalmer:hng
7-25-49
8//2

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
894.51
To the
American Cemsplar Officer in Charge,
Bembay, India.
BONDHOLDERS/7-649
The Secretary of State encloses a letter directed to
Mr. E. A. Seamands, Gulbarga, Deccan, India, sencerning & $1000
Japanese Goternment Bond held by Mrs. Seamands.
At the discretion of the Officer in Charge, this letter
may be transmitted to the addressee.
Enclosure:
To Mr. E. A. Seamands,
CS/J
8
894.51 Bendhalders/7-649
7-25-49
JU! 20

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.96)
The methodist Church
JUL27
SouttIndia Conterence
Gutbarga District
JUL.
E. A. SEAMANDS,
District Sßerintendent
P. O. ADDRESS
and
GULBARGA, DECCAN, INDIA.
Appe-Secrotary
July 6th
THE STATE DEPARTMENT,
51 BONDHOLDERS/7-649
Claim Against Japanese Govt.,
Washington, D.C.,
U.S.America.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Sirs:
A letter from Mr.R.M.Levy,of the Far East
Command HG in San Francisco states that any claims of
American Citizens against the Japanese Government should
be made to the State Department.
Mrs.Seamands is the holder of a $1,000
Imperial Japanese Government Bond Loan 1930 No.29320
with coupon due Nov.lst,l94l. As a missionary with but
modest income she cannot afford to lose this sum outstanding
against the Japanese Government. Ve would thank you very
much if you would outline the proceedure necessary for
the acquiaition of this sum in payment by the Japanese
Government.
The Bond is with her attorney in Pittsburgh,
but can be produced if and when necessary.
5
An early reply to this letter will be deeply
appreciated. I may add of course that we are American
Citizens and have been missionaries in India since 1919.
Yours sincerely,
894.51
AuG5 1949
LA
- 
CS/A/
FILED
179144

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.79)
7-77-49
Blive
20
ELASSIZIKE
To the
Arios Conepaer afficer in Chargee
Bestay, Imla.
The 3eeretary of state enalesss a lester dirested to
Mr. L. A. 3omade, Olberg, Deeosn, Intia, caseratng a sasse
Japenese Goesamen Bond hald by Hrp, Semmamts.
As the dlseretion af the acfioer in Chargse tate letter
may be treaisted to the addressss.
Endlesure:
To . L. . smg
804021 da/7-649
PRELARSTLTH
QFD:FN:GEPalmer:hmg
7-25-49
S/S-CR

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.98)
AOTION
is assigned to
RAYMONDT.JACKSON
July 25, 1949.
48996
GIVISION OF FIANCIAL
Department of State,
894.
Washington, D. C.
DEPARTMENTOF STATE/C
Gentlemen:
5
One or two years ago I inquired with respect to
the status of 6% Gold Bonds of The Tokyo Electric
BONDHOLDEF
Company, which were marketed in this country in 1928.
At that time you were unable to give any definite infor-
mation and suggested that I again make inquiry at a
later date. Pursuant to that suggestion, I am renewing
my inquiry as to whether there is any possibility of
resumption of interest service or of principal payments
upon these bonds.
In view of what has seemed to be the general attitude
of our Government on American investments in foreign com-
R
panies for a number of years, I should not expect that
S
anything had been done to protect the interests of American
/7-2549
investors in this case. Beginning at least as early as
the expropriation of American oil investments in Mexico,
it has seemed that the efforts of our Government have
been directed to assisting foreign governments or their
nationals who desired to expropriate property or to de-
fault on payment of bonds owned by American investors
rather than to assist or to protect American investors.
Although I am a lawyer, I make no pretense of being
an expert in international law. However, I have done
some reading in that field as a matter of general interest.
Under the Hague Convention I have been quite unable to
understand upon what basis the United States eXprpriated,
or encouraged and supported other nations in expr priating,
private property located in other countries even pough
owned by nationals of defeated enemy nations.  have
understood from that Convention that our Goverhment, as
C
well as others, agreed to respect private property and
S
that any justified. recoupment from a defeated nation took
Lthe form of an indemnity to be paid by its Goverament and
A
could not be satisfied by taking the private property of
its_citizens. -However, the latter course seems to have
been very widely followed with the tacit if not express
x
182707

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.99)
RAYMOND T.JACKSON
UNION COMMERCE BUILDING
CLEVELAND
Department of State
July 25, 1949
-2-
Another aspect of this policy relates to the seem-
ingly adopted principle that our Government may compel,
or at least will condone or support the action of allied
governments in compelling, defeated nations to nationalize
7
industries. Of course, our Government seems to have
given strong support to the novel theory that international
law is whatever the victors in any war may chose to make
it by ex post fscto declaration. Otherwise, I do not see
how such a course can be supported under international
law or how in any event it could be supported by our
Government if our Government in fact favors the system of
private enterprise.
In view of what seems to me to have been the policy
of our Government in the aspects hereinbefore stated, I
do not see how the Government could seriously expect any
reasonably sane American citizen to make foreign invest-
ments pursuant to Point 4 of the policy announced by the
President.
Very truly yours,
R.T. Jackson
F.3g
Raymond T. Jackson

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.96)
MUG 291949
In reply refer to
FN 894.51 Bondholders/7-2549
My dear Mr. Jackson:
The receipt is acknowledged of .your letter dated
July 25, 1949 concerning the status of six percent
Gold Bonds of the Tokyo Electric Company which were
894.5IBONDHOLDERS/7-2549
marketed in the United States some years ago. Unfortu-
mately a search of the Departmant's Central Piles does
not reveal your earlier letter of one or two years ago.
possibly because of an error in classification.
The United States Government has not surrendered
any rights of its citigens with respect to gold or dollar
bonds issued by Japanese entities. But at present there
are no means by which Japan could compensate holders of
such bonds either for interest due or principal, since
the Japanese economy possesses no foreign exchange assets
with which to honor capital transfers. All of Japan's
foreign exchange is reserved for curfent transactions by
orders of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in
order to provide payment for essential imports. You are
undoubtedly aware that a very large portion of the foreign
exchange is provided from appropriations of the United
States Congress in order to carry on the objectives of the
occupation of Japan.
It is hoped that at some future date the Japanese
economy may have a surplus of foreign exchange which could
be applied to liquidating pre-war capital indebtddness
particularly of dollar or gold bonds. In the uncertain
state
C
8
Mr. Raymond T. Jackson,
Union Commeroe Building,
S
94.51 BonRolders
0/
Cleveland, Ohio.
DCR OFD UNIT
FCH
Aral.
ab.
Dist.

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.96)
20929
state of economic affairs in Japan and throughout the
worldno estimate is available as to when such a date
may arrive. At present Japan is running a defieit im the
neighborhood or $500,000,000 wh1oh should progressively
decline as world economio conditions improve.
The interests of American holders of Japanese issued
gold bonds will be strongly supported whenever there is
any evidence that Japan is approaching something like
solvenoy in international transactions. At the present
time there are no practical measures which could be
undertaken either through governmental or private channels.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Edvard
Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
FD：.T
Cat.
Dist.
ys
OFD:FN:GStrong/mjp
luot
8-18-49
ED
EP
AUG 29949
