894.20211A Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Hawaii Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., March 2 (File 898)
ID: 894.20211A-898   Pages: 286   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20211a-military-affairs-army-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
the tragedy at Pearl Harbor. The press
To the Editer of The Star:
Yes, there are others responsible for
technicalities interfere.
Identification
hich obliged our counter-
and House who supported
Responsible."
CHARLES H. 
THE
in Hawail "to stand by
July12,1939
Honoluly Star-Balletin
What for call here?
FIVE JAPANESE
s
SHIPS TO CALL
so
M.
at
Five Japanese training vessels
will visit island ports during the
pext 30 days, naval authorities said
-oday.
The Tokyo higher mercantile
marine school training ship Taisei
Maru will visit Honolulu between
August 13 and 23. She is a 2,433
engine and will bring a crew of
49, 47 students and 13 teachers.
She is commanded by Capt. Yoshi-
suke Asai. She is coming from
Japan and wili return home after
the 10 days visit here.
Two Call at Hilo
The Nippon Maru and the Kaio
Maru, department of education,
school of navigation at Kcbe, sail-
a
Smith
ing vessels with auxiliary engines
130 Given Diploma
will be at Hilo from August 2 to
9. arriving from the mainland. The
Nippon Maru is commanded by
Capt. Teoku Nichizawa and the
Kaio. Maru by Capt. Jiro Hagano.
The Shintoku Maru, a vessel of
SHE
the Kobe higher mercantile school,
will visit Kahului, Maui, between
August 18 and 24. It is a 2,500 ton
sailing vessel and has a crew of
47, 52 students and 11 teachers
aboard. The commanding officer
is Capt. Tatsuo Ito. It will visit
San Francisco the latter part of
FEB 6-1942
this month.
W
Five Day Visit
FILED
The Hakujo Maru, a training
vessel of the department of agri-
culture, forestry and marine prod-
ucts, is scheduled to come here
July 27 for a five days visit. She
is now scheduled to be visiting
Alaskan ports.
En route to the mainland from
Japan, a Japanese training squad-
ron consisting of the Yakumo Maru
and Awate Maru, are. scheduled to
stop here October 18 for a five days
vislt. They will be at Hilo Novem-
ber 22 to 26.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.82)
Dato
w
EAR
2
COME
Mr'l. Grant Smith
12221

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.87)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
mtt Qprel 8. 1 93s.
This leter coutaio aothuig
nees of an porlauce
I amo of the opive on that
letters frtw the wriler, cwhose
usual peno name is Ly hau.
should nrh be a ckuolotedgid.
210k

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
PM RECD
Hoholulu, Oahu, T.H.
1465 fort St.
March 26, 1935.
APR - 5 35
Honorable Cordell A. Hull,
Division of
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
T Hile
Department of State, U.S.A.,
JAAR 6 - 1935
Washington, D. C.
mmA.
bepartment of State
se894.20211a/3
Honorable Sir:
Enclosed hereiwht a copy of a Petition to the
Senate and the House of Representative of the kegular session of
1935, Territorial Legislature of Hawaii, by the Sino-Korean
2
Peoples League, urging and asking for determining the facts and
information contained in the petition and also the Japanese
02
activities in general with the view of harnessing the Japanization
activities in Hawaii.
My spirit and motive of this petition is purely
for the sake of advancement of constructive Americanism in Hawaii.
I have been repeatedly warned by the secretary of
the Japanese Consulate Mr. G. Masuo, since December 1934. However,
I feel the American public is entitled to know the facts and I as
resident in Hawaii and America since 5 years of age (since l905).
I feel I owe my loyalty and obligation to the U. S. of A. because
it was under the Stars and Stripes that I had the privilege of
receiving my education and have received the opportunity to pursue
my life and happiness unmolested. America is my country and I am
deeply indebted to America for my very existence and life.
Therefore I believe every residents or citizens
should take up their duties toward the land and flag where they
are residing and enjoying the privileges as we do now in Hawaii.
As I have from time to time wrote you about Hawaii
and the Far Eastern questions, I feel particularly at this time that
I as representative of the Sino-Korean Peoples League should take
the initiative to inform the public of the facts and informations
with the view of determining the facts and informations for the best
interest of the U. S. and Hawaii.
The Japanese government from time to time are send-
ing all sorts of propaganda materials to Hawaii and distributed
among the intellectuals. As an illustration I am enclosing a copy
of translation of the tract "Peoples' Preparation".
-1-

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
The facts and informations contained in the petition,
the above quotation from the Japanese Naval press bureau tract
and the repeated warnings by the Japanese Consulate secretary itself
justifies my action in petitioning the Territorial Legislature in
instituting an inquiry and ascertain these facts and find ways and
means to harness the Japanization activities that hinders Americani-
zation program in Hawaii.
In view of the Japanese Consulate secretary's warnings I
feel that when this petition is presented on the 27 of March, they
may try to take action against me and question the merits and resi-
dence in Hawaii. Therefore I have given a copy to the agent of the
Department of Justice in Hawaii explaining my spirit and motive as
I have related.
I have also been indirectly warned and intimidated that
the Japanese government may demand my arrest and extradite me from
Amerioa to Korea. 1 do not know this is possible or not but on the
advice of the third deputy attorney-general office Territorial
government, he said as long as I have not violated the U. S. law
the Japanese cannot demand nor the U. S. will not deport me.
Whatever it is, I am leaving my fate to God and the fair
and just action of the U. S. government and I believe that God and
the U. 8. is fair and just, if the sacrifice of life itself should
remedy this deplorable racial situation in Hawaii, then I shall be
glad to do so for the sake of the security and peace of the United
States of America.
Due to the Japanese action I am forced to send you the
above information, so that in the event such things comes as they
have warned, I hope you will do what is right and just, but primarily
for the good of the U. S.
Thanking you for the privilege of writing you again and
trusting that if you see your way clear I shall deeply feel grateful
if you would reply my letter.
May God bless you, 1 remain,
Yours respectfully
Kilooo Haan
KILSOO HAAN
P.S. As stated in my previous letter the name W. K. Lyhan is a
given name by the League for me to go on during my work in
Hawai i.
enclosures: Peoples' Preporeduess
Petition
-2-

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
PEOPLES' PREPAREDNESS.
Avirtue to sacrifice oneself for others exists among personal
ethics, but among nations, there uoes not exist a moral that calls
for a sacrifice of one's own country. The members of the League of
Nations are working for international peace with the League as the
central wcrking point primarily to guarantee and advance their own
individual interests, and there is no nation who is working for peace
by sacrificing its own nation. The so-called friendship and concert
with otner nations, except on some special case, can be hardly reply
upon and in order to rank the same with the other nations, it is wholly
necessary for a nation to possess a self-reliant substance as its
final resort.
In an international meeting place, a n: tion without a thing that
she may rely on, no matter now just a thing nay be, she must either
depond on the majority or get the support of a powerful nation in
order to accomplish its views, and such nations's just voice sounds
like whine, but the voice of a strong nation is heard as a voice with
a thousand weights.
Even if Japan, shoulaering the future peace of the rast, desires to
dash forward for that principle with justice, if she has nothing that
she can rely on, justice will be called an injustice and will be forced
to meet a sad misfortune instantly. in connection with the manchurian
question, Japan was called insincere, but aue to the fact that the
other nations aid not resort to force because they were hampered by
the environments ana Japan nad a self-reliant substance, Japan barely
passed on the aays without a grief to this aate. That may be said to
have been a grace of the god and ii you think that we will get by in
that way in the future, you are greatly mistaken for it will not be
so. Hence, we all must strive extremely to perfect our national
defense and enrich the national strength so as to create a thing that
can be depended upon to force the worla to recognize a justice as a
justice.
As a whole, there is notning that will leave so much seeds for
future trouble as practicing inequality in making agreements between
nations. Among the nations that are counted as the woria's first
ranking nations, no matter what it may be, an unequal agreement is
not expected to exist.
Jepan who is the only great nation in asia and wno carries on
both shoulders the important mission of the peace guarantee of the
East due to her stablizing power in Asia cannot accomplish her mission
if she is restricted to an unequalled position comparing to the powers
of Europe and America, especially Great Britain and the united states.
Both the washington agreement ana the London agreement are, as the
people already know, unequal agreements that restrict our Navy armaments
to a lower ratio compared to those of Great Britain ana the united
States, and it is already plain how much damages the existence of those
unequal agreements have brought on the maintenance of the Hast peace
during the past several years. Reflecting on the ruture of Japan,
such an agreement must be firmly repulsed primarily for our national
defense and for international security.
Jepan is now in an unparalled advancement period, but the heavy
pressure of the powers are gradually increasing on her. The coming
disarmament conference is a test whether Japan will rise eternally
or fall. To be able to withstand this test is the people's real duty
to the virtuous "Show" (name for present Emperor's reigning period)
era and it is an honor and a happiness. wish that you will be con-
scious of what the whole nation's defense is and unite in one and
conquer the critical situation and dash forward for a great national
100 year plan.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.90)
PETITION
- To -
THE SNAT AN TH HOUST CP RYPRESENTATIVE
LEGULAR ST3S1ON C7 1935
TE R LITORIAL LEGISLATU RE
THE SINC-HOREAN
PEOPLE'S LEAGUF

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
THE SINC-ROREAN PILES L AGUE
L465 Fort street
Honolulu, vahu. T. H.
Marcn 27. 1935.
To the Hono rable members of the
Senate and the H: use of ke resentative
Regular Session or 1935, Territorial Legislature.
Capital Building.
Honolulu, I. H.
Gen tlemen:
The Sino-nor an Pe ple's  ague subseribe to this
petition and to this plea we do urgently peg that the honorable
members of the Senate anu the nouse of Representative of the
Regular Session of l935, institute an inquiry into tne Japanization
activi.ies in the Territory of Hawali and review the situation
with the view or aeternining the facts anu information contained
herewitn and to find ways anu means, Looking toward the harnes ing
of sucn institutions anu organizations, etc., "that emphasize racial
consciousness and Japanese loyalty ana culture in such manner that
the second generation Japanese nre hampered in their preparation
for American citizenship."
In the inqui ry, we nsk tnat the fo lowing facts and
information be given primary consid ration.
1. Jagan's ru sa to inst uct ur ublic soho 1
students through the distribution of textboors.
reference books for teacners, reading materials.
purtrolios  onta ning Japanese pictorinl and other
graphic mate ials for school room use, etc., compiled
in Ja an.
2.
Japan zation activitles in general.
3.
Result of Japanization in Hawaii.
The alarming international si tuation in the
Paciric anu Japan's nil tant attituue toward A erica.
The tenacious and pers stent res sting of A cricanism
by the Jacanese Leaders in general. have caused uch doubt and
unensiness in Hawaii anu it has also crented a peculiar impression
among the U. S. ofricials, uetcimental to Hawai 's present political
status.
The situation has resulted ns such due to the etnnic,
religious, edueational anu political groups rorming an effective
civic cohesion and it is also aue to the contributory influence
excrtrd by the government of Japan through the application of vnri us
means upon its ubjects, to which the Japanese in Hawaii are giving
full cooperatlon. This situation is made possible bccause tne racial
element are or equivalent or approximately equivalent strength,
numercially, culturally ana economically.
-2-

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
The intelleotuals are found actively engaged in the task of
organizing national memories and hopes around Japan. History.
literature, art, cinema, radio prugran, idealogy, etc. are woven
together in an attempt to develop a political inter st and loyalty
centering around their Emperor.
The issues involved in the Japanese prublem in Hawaii can be
best solved if every American cause their patriutism to hecd the
counsels and warnings of the founder of our Great Re ublic, The
United States of america and the great patriot Thomns Jefferson.
the man who drew the immortal )eclaration of Inde endence of
america".
If these two gr at Anericans were in Hawaii today. they would
have repeated these very worus once  ore
"aga nst the ins dious viles of foreign influence.
I conjure you to belicve ne, e low vitizens. the
jealousy of a pree peuple cugat to be constantly awake.
since nistory nnu experience prove that forei n in-
fluence is one of the most baneful focs oi epublian
government."
--Washington.
To be prepareu lor wnr is one of the aost e:fcc-
tive means of preserving peace." --Washington.
Thomas Jefferson saiu amen to tiose wise c unscls anu warnings
and added his warning t tnis countryment against ---
the insiulous int: gue and pcrsistent influence
of forcign nation."
Whether we wish t face the facts or not it reaains that the
intense nationalistic as weil as racinl scliaification of the Orien-
tals in the Far kast under the new banner of "Asin for ns atics" and
the collaboration of such influrnce in Hawaii will be most sign icant
factor which will eventually determine the secucity as well as the
change of political stat s to Statehood or to Commission form of
government.
If and when we ignore these factors and cont nue the "homali-
mali* pol cy, w. will nave no one to blane but ourselves.
The present situation a forus the acid test for Hawa ian st tes-
manship.
JAPAN'S PROPOSAL
The Sino-Korean People's League were inrormed by ite agent
in Tokyo. Japan. that the soreign ana Educational ministcies or uhe
Japanese government grantea official sanction to the project, proposea
by the Society of International Cultural Relation.
supply (free of charge) all public schools of
Hawaii with reference books for teachers, reauing
m terials. portfolios containing Japanese pictorial
and other g aphic materinls for schoolromm use, etc.
-3-

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
In connection with the free distribution of Japanese textbooks,
Is said that Mr. Okada, the head of the cultural Bureau and former
Unsul-General in Hawaii. stated:
"That il the necessary rents have been
made with the Public Instruction. also with the
various religious and socinl leaders in Hawaii.
Mr. Setsuechi Aoki, General-Secretary of the Society of Interna-
tional Cultural Relation, said:
*For several years the school h ads in Hawaii
and America with the aid of many influential
educators and mission ries made a thorough survey
of American textbooks for the Japanese Society.
The survey revealed that if proper propaganda is
systematically carricd out in the schools, the
American chi luren will become strong friends of
Japan.
The above info nation later ceceived confirmation in an item
published in the Trans-Pacifio", Tokyo, Japan. in the form of an
interview late in November 1934.
Through the publication of raaing materials.
new reference textbooks for trachers, better methods
of teaching and portfo ios containing pictorial and
other graphic motcrials for schoclroom use will be
undertaken as a definite international and educa-
tional bouies in Japan.
The project was accepted at a me, ting wednes-
day evening at the r.oku ai Bunka sninkokai or the
Society for the Promotion of International cultural
Relation by representatives of the Society. The
Japanese Council of the Institute of Paciric Rela-
tion, the Imperial Asscciation of Education. and
ducation and roreign Ministries. The committee
formed at the mecting with officinls. the two
ninistries associate members will begin to function
soon, it was said by Mr. Setsuichi Aoki. Secretary-
general of Yokusai Bunkn Shinkokai to a representa-
tive of the Trans-Pacific. November 15.
The preject which will begin with sch ols in
America wa. stimulated by a far r nching su vey of
tex tbooks used in American schools. etc."
On Jecember 4, 1934, The Japan Times, Toxyo, Japan. pub ished
an item headed --
"High school students in U. S. to be given
books with corrcet information on Japan."
The iten states that the Society. etc. -
*---decided on a plan to be followed for the
compilation of school textbooks to be used at high
schools in the U.S. for diffusing correct informa-
tion on Jayan.
'According to the plan, the collecting and
rovisional compilation of materials on Japan will
be undertaken by a committee including both Americar
and Japanese members. Materials of inatructions on
Japan will cover almost every phase of modern Japan
embracing topics on the government, economic and
social, art, etc., which will be presented in a wa
-4-

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
that will appeal to the average high school
students in America."
Another item which further substantiated the above mentioned
information appcared in Japan Times, cbruary 6. 1935. The item
states:
"The Society which was established in April
last year by the roreign Ministry officials and
other influential people, it has devoted itself
to propaganda, --dispatching Japanese ecturers
abroad. contributing cultural materials, assistance
to foreigners studying of things Japanese and other
entecprises.
The Society has been honored with the gracious
donation from Hi Majesty's Household and H. I. H.
Prince Tokamatsu (brother to the Emperor) kindly
consented to become President d'honneur of the
Socicty. etc.
'Materials on Japan for school use abroad.
The object of this work is to supply materi 1s on
Japanese culture to both tcachers in and students
of high sclools in the United States and is being
prepared with the cooperation of the Institute of
Pacifio Relntion, etc."
six months prior to tnis dccision on April 12. c unt Ayace koba-
yama, chaimman and r. Saburo Yamada, one of the airecturs explained
that the ---
"Society i: to serve as a elcaring house for all
Japanese people."
In April the government made a grant of 20t.0ou yen, in August
300,O00 yen and the Imperial Household Ministry with the great indus-
trial giants. Mitsui and Mitsubitsu contributed about a million yen.
In 1935, 2.500,000 yen was approp inied for the government Bureau of
Cultural Relations.
The Prospectus and Scheme of the society. stated --
"A nation in order to secure and str ngthen
its position in the comity of nations, aust endenvor
to promote the value and prestige of its own cul-
ture. The diffusion of kaowledge regnrding a nation
is not only necessary for the purpose of enhancing
its prestige, but will also serve to mn e its people
alive to their position in the world and to streng-
then their sense of self-respect -- to nte the
world better acquainted with the real significance
of Japanese and Oriental culture, is an important
duty for the sake of Japan.
The advisors of the Society are as follows:
Admiral : eisuke Oxada
Prime "inister
Mr. urahe Yuasa
"inister of Imperial Househol
Mr. koki Hirota
inister of roreign Affairs
Mr. Genji Mat uda
Minister of rducation
Viscount kikujiro Ishii
President of Institute for
the Education of Oversea Japantse.
Or. Toji sakurai
President of the Imperial
Academy. personally appointed by
the kmperor.
Prince Iyesato Tokugawa, Count Nobusaki Maxino and Count
Keigo Kyorura.
-5-

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
Director Dr. M. Anezaki, the authority of Criental culture at
Peers Club, Tocyo, Japan, on December 5, 1934, ointed out the
The Society -- is intent on advertising
Japan in the same way as the Japan Tourist Bureau
or the Nippon Yaisen r.aisha."
Gentlemen of the Legislature, we pray that you would try and
fathom the intent and motive of Japan's so-called "neces ity (f
cultural relation" with America at this time. Japan has advanced the
-logic of necessity" at all times whenever and wherever she decmed
confident of her power to strike a sudden blow at the enemy to gain
her objects. The application of jujitsu strategy are ev dent in all
of her wars and conquests. lecently we have read in the local papers.
the eloguent and well prepareu specch, aue by the Consul-Gcneral
Mr. Tamura, giving his interpretation of Japan's recent action in
Manchuria. The gist of nis talk can be summed up as follows:
"Right or wrong" Japan this -- "kight or wrong"
Japan that -- and -- Right or wrong" Japan has, etc
In view of Japan's atvi tude and the activitics during the past
decadcs. we conelude that "right o" wrong", Japnn will pusn her pro-
jects in Hawaii.
We have reasons to believe that Ja an is using the so-called
internatienal cultural movenent and tne various pence novement: as a
weapon for the purpose of maneuvering the Unitea States into a position
of inferiority and hope to degenerate the national spirit.
It is imperative tuat the Legislature make a survey and insti tute
an inquiry to determine the extent of Japanese cultural knowle ge,
custom. history. spirit. etc.. acquired by the Japanese secona genera-
tion. We believe the honoraolc members will most ccrtainly find that
about 95 percent have acquired enough Japanese cuiture, spirit. lan-
guage, etc.; sc much so that the merite and effectiveness o? the
present culral movements of the Institute of Pacific Relaticns. the
Department cf Public Instruction. v rious other eligious ana cducation-
al institutions and organizations secm doubtful.
It is often stated by naval experts that striterie situation of
Japan is almost p' rfect. This strategic st engih, Jpan acquired
largely through the Washington Treaty in  turn for she as. urance by
Japan. promising to refrain from terri tocinl expansion in China and
the Pacific. This promise she never had intendeu to keep.
In all international conferences Japan foilowed an iucntical
method of bluff. easily convincing other nations of her sincerity and
honesty. But the result of conferenc s have been most dist.trous to
the nations who have implicitly trusted her.
We are most concerned that the prcsent co perative netivities
of the above institutions and organizntions may mret the same fate.
The depar ment of public instruction, on the zlst day of January
tated. "his department has ooperated with his group (Rev. T. Cku-
mura's) in promoting Language schools in the public school builuings."
On the 2lst day of Webruary, superintendent Mr. Long in reply (to an
inquiry from San Francisco Chronicle) to Mr. George M. collins. the
chariman of the Territorial Bo rd of School Commissioners, wrote a
lengthy letter stating that, "practically all of the textbooks now
being in use in the public schools are the regular publications of
such well known mainland firms, etc.". to which the sino-Korcan
People' League replied on the 5th of Match ---
-6-

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
"I have noted that you at length explained the
textbooks now being in use at the publio sahools of
Hawaii. As I gather from the inquiry. I believe it
has nothing whatsoever to do with the textbomks now
being in use."
Mr. Long's letter to Mr. George M. Collins further revealed that--
"The first draft of a similar study of Japan
have been completed by Miss Pratt (member of Amerie
can Council of the Institute of Pacific Relations).
She also had the assistance of Dr. Gregg M. Sin-
clair. Associ te Professor of English. University
of Hawaii. and Dr. Masamichi Royama. Visithng Pro-
fessor, University of Hawaii, September 1934 to
January 1935."
Dr. Royama came to Hawaii under the payroll of the University
from the Japanese Imperial University of Tokyo, Japan; a member or
the Japan Counoil of the Institute of Pacific Relations. During his
tay here the representative of the Sino-Korean People's League had
the privilege of interviewing the eminent professor. During the
interviews. he expressed that "all the Orientals should unite under
the leadership of Japan in opposing the Cccidental powers in the
Far East and in the Pacific Area." He most emphatically stated that
the "Open Door Policy" should be junked and the Monroe Joctrine of
Asia for Asiatics be placed in its stead.
When jokingly reminued that his remarks and a titude were con-
trary to American policies and at least under the payroll of the
University of Hawaii he should be more careful, to which he replied
with a smile. ---
"Japan have gained her ground inch by inch by
hard persistent work using every opportunities no
matter how insignificant it may be.
When asked if he believed in the Americani ation of the Japanese
descents in Hawaii, he said:
From an Oriental to an Criental, do you think
the Japanese descendants can be made into Americans.
while Japan is at itss ascendency to world suprema-
oy?".
In returning to Japan, Dr. Royama is said to have made the
following remarks:
"The Cpen Door policy as it has been in the past
will no Longer be of avail to drtermine the destiny
of China or of the Far Fast. Such doctrine should
be denounced. ----
•The same is true in the case of naval disarma-
ment. Japan did what she thought justified but the
United States refused to recognize the adequacy of
the grounds on which Japan acted. some are apt to
describe the present situation as a cause of possi-
ble war between the two nations. while others re-
frain from pessimism over the situation, holding
that now that both parties have clarified their
positions from their own stanapoints, there should
be no more discussion. unless the United States is
inolined to interfere with the Japanese attitude.
Therefore the controversy is not likely to carry
thethe two nations to war.
'Nevertheless no one can guarantee that there
will be no war in the future."

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
JAPANIZATION ACTIVITIES IN GENERAL
Ex-Governor. w. y. wrear, once said:
"The most important problem of this Terri-
tory is the character of the chilaren who are
to become our future citizens. Whether Hawaii
will have a conmission form of government, or
whether she will be granted a statehood will
largely letermined by the character of our
future citizens. will these citizens of Crien-
tal descents act as th: U. . citizens or
subject of Japan or as citizens half-American
and halr-Japanese. is a most important problem.
About sixty percent of oir ublic schuol children are of Japanese
descents and mor than 95 percent o the e Jaganese chiluren attend
the Japanese language schools, ana about 37 percent of then are
airectly under the Budahist influence, where school teachers boldly --
"declared that they are teaching Japanese spi rit through the medium of
Japanese language". and they also ueclare that "Imperial rescript is
boldly read and taught".
Aside from the language school ., they are under the rigid family
system, their conduct and att tude rc loscly guarded by their mothers
and fathers.
Can we concci ntiously say that the Japanese during the past haif
a century made an honest ffort toward Americanization? r can they
be really and truly become loyal citizens if they are allowed to pursue
the present Japanize policy
The real and most oritical test poriod of loyalty and true
citizenship comes after school ho rs nd rticularly in the economic
field after graduation. The O-iental young men nnd wonen are at a
state of quandry after graduation, sonehow through circumstances their
close ties of as ociation with the things American and intimate contact
are cut losse and left to drift into the economic ficld without much
guidance or advice to compete wit the experienced businessman of their
race. Consequently almost O percent are forced b c: to the fold of
Japanese influence and powe . They are placed in a position in which
they have little choice. but to follow the footsieps of their elders.
A well-known Ame ricnn mission woker, saiu:
My personal view favors the rignt of Japa-
nese parents in Hawaii to teach thei: children
the Japanese language, but I regret that many
of the Japanese schuols unuer the control of
the Buauhist emphasize racial consciousness
and Japanese loyalty and cul ture in suoh a
manner that the second generation of Japanese
are humpered in thcir preparations for American
citizenship.
At a date not far distant, nearly all of
the Buddhist schools were taught by so-called
Buddhist priests. Whether they were bonafide
priests or not I am unable to say. but they
were admitted by our Immigration Jepartment as
Winisters" and were classified as Buddhist
priests. It is my opinion that the grcatest
stumbling block to the progress of the Japanese
language schnols in Hawaii would be removed

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.95)
if they had no conncction whatsoever with the
Buuahist religiun. The fact that these school
are maintainca for purposes other than mastery
of the language. presents a uifficulty and a
spirit of intolerance in comunities where
Buudhist priests nre the controlling influence
This kind of thing aay be alright for Japan
but in my opinion it is unfortunate in Anerica
Rev. T cai Okumura of axiki   tle Church. the founder of the
"New Anerican Conference" nnd the vice-President of the "Prince
Fushimi Scholarship Association of Hawaii". frankly confirmed the
above view in a statement made in the New Ancrican Conference on
June 19. 1 34. He saiu:
"Touay tne endulum has swung in the op-
posite uirection nnu the Japanese conaunity
sems to be Japanized more and more. Since
its victory iI the Suprene Couct, the language
schools are beginning to display the renl cclo
o Japanism.
Another Japanese. ev. Shinryu Unehara, who cane rom Japan to
inspect the Bu uhist onganizations and language schools of Hawaii
and the Pacific Coast. pricr to the Y. M. B. A. delegati n sailing
to Japan. said:
(Rev. T. C uura's translation).
"I aa cofoundly i prrsscd at the grent
place of the Ja ancse Langpage sehools and the
Bu uhist te ples in the Japanese co munity.
Tuey nre a hot-beu uf eial cousciousness.
Japanest cultuce nd spirit. ec.".
Baced on the stasistles  the Ja nese Consut-Jeneral tnere are
only 4. 131 Ja anese chris ia is in Hawaii; tnece ar( pe chn s ew
thousand more who dri us on Bu uh s to hristianity nd visa versa
due to ecunonie, po itionl nnu s I ren ons.  vcrthe css the fact
rcmains that even tae hanuful o? Jauanest christ ans have unuerta.en
their share o duties toward the  aintenanee of Japanization.
It i. interesting to note that so me seven yrirs ago. the Pan-
Pacific Union awarued a first prize to a Japancsc christian y. uth in
an oaticnl es ay. The st of his cseny is ns fullows:
"Why shoulu we be ashaned of our Japanese
bloou? There is no ause, no reason to be
a. haned. we ought to be ppoud of our race,
the noble Yinato race. ur cace dors not vaun
the slory of matcrialism. no. Thank God. no.
But the glory of lofty spiritual. cultural
achievements! The shining blosson of Yamato
unmnshi! The sublime mngni ficenee of Bushido.
the spir:t of sarucai! The padinnt splendor
of a culture mellow with the experience and
wisuon of the ages. Loyalty. honor. ourage
and cour esy - thesc cnrdinnl vi ctues o" the
Bushi, the Sa urai, let us bring to Anerica.
Not as abstract virtues, but as praotical
virtues exem lifieu in our dnily living, etc.
The Japanese churchcs frequently preach the Manchurinn question
and opportunities in their regular morning scrvices.
-9-

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
The leading officers of the Prince rushimi scholarship Association
awaii are Christians than Buddhists. Its activities and the adop-
on of the above name is self-evident. one who receive financial aid
and political push from the above association. are undermoral obliga-
tion to the Prince of Japan. In its practical sense this is the most
effective method of Japanization.
Under this peguliar situation. Japan finds a rich field for
propaganda, no doubt she ha. taken every advantage. Cbviously under
its various peace movements and romotions of cultural r lation
activities we find, instend of the Japancsc leaders cooperating with
the Americans in the promotion of Americanization program, they are
austuciously trying to use the Americans to further Japanization
activities in Hawaii.
viecount Ishii, the hend of the Institute of Education of Oversea
Japanese. in spite of his previous advice. advising the Japanese to
"remove every trace of alien influence and attitude", etc. saw fit to
declare in July 2. 1934 at Osaka, Japan ---
"Leave the second generation in the land
of their residence. but don't let them forget
the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buy-
ing select Japanese goods. in voting cast the
ballot for politicians friendly to Japanese."
RESULT OF JAPANIZATION ACTIVITITS
Perhaps the most strixing result of Japanization activities can
be seen in the appalling number of dual citizens of Japanese ancestry
in Hawaii. The r sult of the Ixpatriation Law of 19z4 is particularly
a forceful illustration.
The intent of the rxpatriation Law was to ease the Americans and
to disarm them from doubting the sincerity of the Japanese government
and also to counteract the intense anti-Japanese feeling during the
years of 1921-l924. It was publicnlly stated by many Japanese leaders
that the Expatriation Law was comparable to an answer to a maiden's
prayer. The law enabled all the Japanese de cents numbering some
66,647 (June 30. 1924) to take out expatriation papers, thus casting
off the stigma of dual citizenship status. 1t was also said that the
children born thereafter will become automatically full fledged Ameri-
can citizens, unless they desired to remain Japanese subject. The law
was optional. However. it was hailed as the beginning of enlightened
friendly rrlationship between the two gr at people of the Pacific.
According to the stati: tics of the Japanese Consulate-General it
show that thus far less than 9 pero nt of the 66, 647 dual citizens
actually took advantage of the law. In other words only 5.768 expa-
triated. ven this small number cannot be honestly said that they have
voluntarily took such step because of their loyalty to Anerica.
Majority of these men and women are said to hive done so purely for
political and economic rensons.
What about the 3e.310 who were born since 1924? Are they techn1-
cally loo percent American citizens or half-American or hulf-Japanese?
Statistics show that cut of 39.310 up to June 30, 1934, the parents of
17.825 children or 45 percent have voluntarily registered at the Japa-
nese Consulate becoming dual citizens.
The net result of the Jxpatriation Law is a "Hoax", for today
we have 78.704 dual citizens of Japanese ancestry.
-10-

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
One may ask why such alarming situation? The answer is, Japani-
Jon activities. This situation has not bren the result of mere
oident, but it has been due to their consistent and systematio
Japanized activities since they landed in Hawaii.
The department of public instruction few ears ago evidently
saw the detrimental effect of dual-status and deamdned that all school
teachers of Japanese ancestry have their citizenship status be clari-
fied.
Sometime in November of 1934, it is said that the Japanese
farmers through the Japanese Language school leaders requested the
Territorial Board of School Commissioners to change the school hours
of the public schools, in order to relieve the farmers in whicn their
children can be employed fo" pick ng the coffee during the coffee
season.
The School commissioners gave their request every consideration
and recommended the hours of 7 a.m. to 12 noon and nsked for a trial
of the changed schedule. However, having the spirit typical to the
militant Japanese, they refused even to try to carry out the school
Commissioners' recommendation. Instead :f cooperating they declared a
strike and refused to send their chiluren to the American public school
for several days.
such display of unreasonable and un-American behavior are not so
rare in Hawaii. Little more tan a yenr ago the Japanese community
threatened to boycott the Honolulu Advertiser.
The Honolulu Advertiser's editucial is self-evident:--
"Attacking an American Iaeal.
"We are informed that a group of influential Japa-
nese elders held n me ting Wednesday to devise a plan
for punishing the Aaverti. er. This paper's offense is
that it published a letter from a visiting tourist just
returned from Japan. The letter first rebuked the
Advertiser for our edit rial of felicitation on the
birth of an heir to the Japanese throne; then it added
statements of opinion about the Japanese government.
These statements the Japanese elders do not like.
'If the Japanese elders in Honuluiu understand
clenrly the ba is upon which they propose boycotting
the Advertiser well and good. But they should understand
all the implications. In an American community, as
American citizens or at lenst as people who have cast
in their lot with American institutions in an American
community, they would seek to punish an Anerican news-
paper for following the American policy of allowing
freedom of speech to an american citizen.
If the Japanese elders understand that let them go
ahead. They wiil soon understand that they have taken a
stand which they will find it impossible to justiry ---
if they propose being sood citizens of an American
community.
'That is their problem. They must find the answers.
'As for the Advertiser, it is happy to carry on
under the banner of free speech, free discussion, an
advocnte of American ideals, free from divided loyalties
and dual standards, with all the power we possess. Any-
one attacking us on that ground will find himself trying
to uphold a difficult thesis."
The most striking example is the autitude of the Japanese official
and leaders in Hawaii.
-11-

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
Mr. Gishiro Masuo, the secretary of the Japanese C nsulate stated
on September 12. 1934, to an inquiry:
"1. It is proper way that the men and women
whose naes tre recorucd in the census register of
Japan do report their na riage to this Consulate.
e tc.
if they do not report their narriage to
this Consulate they will  nnin singles in the
iensus-Register of Jnpan, and the birth o? their
ihi laren, therefore wili net be reported to this
offi ce but be reported to the Board of Hcalth of
Territory of Hawaii."
Note this statement:'It is not necessary to sny t it such child-
ren hold Aierican citizenship only."
In view of the of icia. opin on it is eviurnt tn t no n tter what
laws are passed or what promiscs tie Japanese govcrnnent ma:e to the
U. S., the status of the Japanese Jescents will always renain half-
Japanese and half-Anerican.
Unuuubteuly Japan knows that this s a breaen of "International
Good Paith." Japan must be maur to renlize that sne ay caary the
Logic of necessity too far.
The registration of  rlnge is lot all, for cve y Japanese
youth is requi reu to regrste when c ley br o le of militury nge. If
they youth don't ao it, at least sheir parents egister it for them.
thus nvoiaing nny serious ucubt. The najority of the Japanese hotels
in the islands give every assistance to them. in fact it is said that
the hotels are too willing to coopcrate with the Japanese Consulate.
The Jap nese youths say:
"The parents are "oreeu to uo it, for ot er-
wise thei: relatives resiuing in Japan would be
punished. fined or otherwise made to suffer."
Such insid ous foreign influence. dangerous to Ancriennisn are
being carried out indi rectly and unless the lawnn crs of Hawaii find
ways and means to hacness and avert such nctivities. Hawaii' situation
will br perilous.
TH ALARMING INTENATI NAL SITUATIN I TIT
PACIFIC AND JAPAN'S  ILITAIT ATTITUL TOWARD AORICA.
America in the course of hee stwaru move toward the me Tast.
fre uently sine t. bear blows witn Japan. The Japanese believe. the
purchase of Alaska, the annexation of Thilippines and Hawaii, the
famous Juhn Hay's O en- cor Licy, the Washington Conference in 1922.
America's non-rec gniti on po icy of  nnchukuo an. the extension of
airline noross the Pacific are the nets of stepping on Japan's toe:
it has aggrnvated nna straineu the elationship between the twe coun-
tries.
Japan on the other hand playeu a unique le f a strtegist.
She studied the art of jujitsu and became a victor seizing and claim-
ing all the strategic puints in the continental Asin anu the Pacific
and directly blocxing America's peaceful nuvance. Ja an strctched her
arm toward the north and possessed the Yurile ana half of sahalin.
directly on the nothern nir route. she cunn'ngly (in the name of
necessity) seized forea and forcefully seized the three "astern Pro-
vinces of Manchuria and Jehol, frustrating the economic expansion of
the Powers. She posses es vormosa ana the chain of islands north of
Formosa to Japan proper. blocking more than haif of China's front
door; she holds they key to the wertern half of the Pacific ccean.
tuese chain of islands for thuusands of niles, stretches from Bonin
to the Marshalls and serves as the natural air lane carrier of Japan's

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
foroe, coaling stations for her navy. rendezvous for her sub-
rines and the stepping stone for her army. The proximity of these
Islands make the Philippines. Guam and Hawaii vulnerable. strategically
they will become a direct threat to California and possibly Panama
Canal.
The world's eyes are upon Japan and the United States. never
before the Pacific problem attracted so much attention. Every move in
Tokyo and washington is being followed by watchful eyes, they are eager
and intensely interested to know what will the next move be.
Will Amerioa give up the conmercial Il-Dorado of the Far East?
Will she give up the Pacifio Mandates to Japan permanently for the
sake of "peace at any price?". Granting that America give up the
Philippine Islands and the Pacific Mandates, will the sacrifice on
the part of America guarantee the safety and security of Guam and
Hawaii from Japan's militarism?.
The political experts and the international peace at any price
Pacifists who had hoped and reiigiously believed that the washington
Naval Treaty and Nine Power Treaty backed by Kelloggisn would make it
impossible for any of the big powers to overthrow the status-quo in
the Pacific were mistaken. To-day we find not only Japan is bent on
a policy of military conguest and expansion on the Asiatic mainland.
but that her navy men speak of duplicating the sea. the successful
policy of the Japanese army in the Pacific.
On March 10. 1935, the Japanese war Department issued 200.000
phamplets titled The Determination of the Japanese Nation at the Time
of Crisis". It declared in part:
"Japan is the stabilizing factor in the Hast
Asia and the world stae is fully ualified in
status as well as strength to act as a leading
power. The Japanese nation retains the natural
and unspoiled virtues of the human being. which has
elevated to a very high degree of refinement. The
national virtues cannot be compared with the moral-
ity of those nations given to fighting among them-
selves on the continents and whose souls have been
tyranized anu deformed. Their morality is composed
of individualism. egotism and materialism. The
Japanese sense of "self" is not ego. The "self" is
to them a member of the state, of which the hmperor
is the nucleus. In other words, seif is insepara-
ble from the State. From this conception spring
filial piety and loyalty to the kmperor. If it
could be extended to all human beings thcir eventual
welfare wuuld be assured."
Our present domestic troubles are the conse-
yuences of the importation of western civilization.
but the time is ripening for rectification of the
situation. The Japanese people must realize the
mission that has been entrusted to them.
The experiences of the pas thalf a century has shown that trivial
and peacemeal concessiens through good-intention compromises have
stimulated fresh demands. Instead of allaying themselves to the cause
of earnest peace and cooperation for mutual bcnefit. she have taken
advantage of the good-intention compromises, constantly preserving
militant resources for future conquest.
Not long ago "Ripley's Believe it or not" revealed an interesting
information, refleoting ypon Japan's ruthless and clever commercial
methods. It r vealed that Japan "in order to compete with swedish
-13-

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
making firms, the Japanese named a town in Japan "sweden".
printed "Made in Sweden" on their match boxes.
A decade ago the public would have laughed. if anyone predicted
Japan's supremacy in the match manufacturing and sales field, now it
has become ar realtty. It was rcliably reported that the Japanese.
Swedish and Soviet Russia match authorities have come to an agreement
in New York City with respect to price and sales territories in the
U. S., Japan holding the upper hand over its agreement.
Under the related criticnl situation, it is now proposed by the
Japanese government to carry out its propaganda in the public schools.
The various techniques employed in the different field of movements
for the purpose of promoting Japanization must be closely sorutinized.
desected and then analysis slould be made of the relative significant
factors.
In every country the schuol system, wh, ther in public or in
private hands is nn important agency in the determination of the
attitude of the next gcneration. The schools are the organized trans-
mitters of group tradition and of group wisdom and on the plastic
mind of youth group characters may be written almost indelibly.
Especially in recent times the public schools have come doubly
significant.
Gentiemen, we must ever bear in ind within a period of one
generation the majority of the population of any average state passes
through its schools and this generation rcceived the iapress Society
chooses to stamp upon it through the schools.
Therefore, a just decision by the honorable members of the
Legislature must be emphasized as vital factor in sociai ana national
life.
In presenting this petition, the Sino-Iorcan Peoples League
wish it be known that the spirit and motive of this petition is purely
for the sake of advancement of constructive Americanism in Hawaii.
If there are any disagreeable phrases or facts that may embarrass
the present political status of the Territory, we hcpe that the
honorable members, give the facts and phrases your frank and just
consideration with the same spirit nnd motive.
We believe in Americanism and in the preservation of its ideal.
Unfortunately. it seem the present economic, educaticnal, religious
and political situation in Hawaii is nothing more than an unwise
compromise of that idealism into a mixture of non-assimilable foreign
influence and culture which Washington and Jefferson have cuunscled
against it.
With assurance of our profound respect and esteen the Sino-Korean
People's League submit this petition and plea and beg your early
consideration in the Regular Session of 1935. Territorial Legislature.
Yours very respectfully.
W. K. highan
W. K. LYHAN
Representative of The Sino-Korean
People's Lecgue in Hawaii.
-14-

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.89)
-17-36
Me.Juner:
M. Himiltond:
From "K"on page 4 to
end, this letter is inter-
esting; aleo enclosure 6
which is a photostat.
.g.C.
The photostat looks
phony
T.
ad

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
Honolulu, Oahu, H.I.,
1465 Fort Street,
March 6, 1936.
Honorable Cordell A. Hull,
DEPARTMENT SLATE
Secretary of State, . S. 
Washington, D.C.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1936 MAR 13 PM 1 01
MAR 1 4 1936
Honorable Sir.
Department of State
Letters uve been sent to you during themaet four years
educati nal institutions, religious organizations and pacifist, peace-at-
any-price and anti-war groups.
(ther efforts have been made locally to warn our leaders against the
impending danger, but with very little succ ss. of my many attempts,
the correspondence with our educators (enclosures 1,?,3,4) is one illust-
ration; the clioping from The Honolulu Times (enclosure 5) furnishe another.
I believe now that y efforts to inform local authorities are wasted.
I fear greatly for awaii as merica's Cirst line of defense. T appeal to
you for an investigation by your department of the activities mentioned,
2
especially in view of further evidence just secured (enclosure 6) which
2
climaxes and confirns by previous researches. I shull discuss t: is last
202
item below.
It has been forgotten here and by  ost people on the mainland that,
preceding the reat tr, Jeraany en eavored to disseminate propaganda,
disguised as kultur, throughout the world. It was particularly so in
merica where germans bocame the conters or moving spirits of peace soc-
ieties, pacifist or anizations, etc. s events proved, these efforts were
not incidental, but port of an orgenized plan. Howover, the Germans
2
vere crude coupared to the Japanese, those methods are more subtle, per-
sistent, far-renching and effective.
laucasians  ove vory little understanding of the Japanese mind, which
is thorou hly (riental.  pyself am an Criental, end  'ave the greatest
difficulty is ex laining, to Jaucasians, many Japanese moves which are
immediatoly a paront to me (3f. onclosure 4).
Japan plans, and has planned for some time, world donination or
conquest. (iartly as an aside, observe the pattern on wrapping paper used
in Japan - enclosure 7). is soon as matters in sia are smoothed out,
merica vill have Jopan's attention. The first objective is Hawaii and
laska, the capture of vhich is scheduled for about 1944. e present is
a time of mentel preperation, by Japan, of the people of America as Well
m
as of the rest of the "orld.
s ar ued, if there be instilled in the
anti-var complex, n reaching voting age nericans vill be farorably
inclined to Jupan and totally unprepared for war. Hence, they vill
helpless vhen Jepan attacks.
Te mental preparation is under the guise of"Japanese culture,"
although the form kultur conveys the idea somevhat better. The local methods
of applying it will be discussed after consideration of the set-up, which
shows so lefinitely the foreign governmental control bohind it:

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
2.
(Also enclosure 8)
JAPAN FOREIGN OFFICE
Cultural Bureau
American Side
Japanese Side
Intornational Cultural Relations Jociety.
Treater Asiatic Cultural Association
Text Book Materials otc.
Intornati nal ssociation.
Consulates of Japan
Universities,
Colleges,
Cverseas lomens Assoaiations
High Schools,
verseas Peoples
Libraries.
ducation Institute
Language Schools
"uddhist and Shinto
organizations
. and Y.B.A.
Instituto of racific Relations
Various "ission oards.
merican Bible Jociety.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
In Hawaii, four principal concealed methods are followed for Japan-
izing the minds of the American born. The Japanese subjects are reached
by yet another method.
(1) Well instructed Japanese are placed for years as servants in the
homes of wealthy men and leaders in business, educational and social
activities - particularly members of the anti-war groups. Through the
opportunities provided, an apt word here and there keeps the alleged
benevolence of Japan constantly to the fore. In addition, presents from
Japanese arrive at appropriate times. The American recipients become
completely hypnotized, even if not already predisposed to Japan. As
Professor Nitobe related to his compatriots after his close survey of
American psychology: "... there are Americans who defend Japan at almost
every turn, even at the risk of personal injury..."
(2) Propaganding professors from Japan are engaged to write Amer-
ican text-bbooks for American children. The motive was explained by
S. Aoki, secretary of the Society of International Cultural Relations
(directed from the Japan Foreign Office): "For several years the school
heads in Hawaii and America, with the aid of many influential educators
and missionaries, made a thorough survey of American textbooks for the
Japanese Society. The survey revealed that if proper propaganda is
systematically carried out in the schools, the American children will
become strong friends of Japan." (of. also activities, ▲
below).
(3) Americans of Japanese extraction are reached through the Jap-
anese private lan uage schools, and the religious organizations of the
Buddhists and Shintoists, and their social groups. By such means, the
most earnest efforts are made to instil wh-t is called "Japan or Mippon
Spirit" in the budding Americans. (Cf. enclosure 5, sub-heads Second,
Third, Fifth and particularly Seventh.)
(4) These Americans of Japanese extraction are also reached by
lecturers and "good-will" missionaries from Japan, who attempt to boulster
up the loyalty of t' ese Americans to Japan. Enclosures 9 and 10 are
illustrations. Cne of the lecturers, (enclosure Lθ) was already krown and
was expelled. There are others.
(5) Among Japanese generally, ho reside here, publications are
continually being received from Japan, di cussing the pending Japan-Unitd
States war, and referring to the aid from the 150,o08cjapanese in the
capture of lawaii. You have already received the account by Fukunaga,
endorsed by two very high Japanese admirals. Being printed in Japanese,
these works are seldom noticed by Americans in authority.
Of the Activities observed lately, I may cite the following:
A.
"Textbook on Japan," prepared under the direction of Professor
Royama, Imperial University, Tokyo, wit! the cooperation of Columbia
University, New York, University of Hawaii , Institute of Pacific Relat-
ions, Hawaiian Department of Public Instruction and private high schools,
for use by the senior grades of American high schools. It contained
definite falsehoods about the American government, and nothing but praise
of Japan. Through protests emanating from me, two promises were made to
withdraw it. The first promise was not kept. The second is recent.
B. Merging of Japan Council of the Institute of Pacific Relations
with "Japan's International Association," thus placing the former

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
under the indirect control of Janap's Foreign Office. (See Enclosuro 11)
The chairman is Viscount Ishii, former Japan ambassador to ashington.
C. The "Japanese Center" for the cultural disfusion is to be
established in Tokyo, and to be financed by American missionaries and
educators (1,Oo0,000 yen). It will be headed by  r. Sterling Fisher of
New York City.
D. Direct cooperation of the University of Hawaii and local
Institute of Facific Relations with the Cultural Bureau of Japan and its
subsidiaries in receiving and distributing financial support to the
activities mentioned (cf. enclosure 12.)
E. Prince Fushimi Scholarship Association, establishing Japanese
libraries and aiding Japanese-American leaders to take the important
political positions, so that they may aid "Japan's 'ission." (cf.
enclosure 12, and note on Tsukiyama below.)
F. Propagenda from Japan war office and books distributed in
local Japanese language schools, and in many instances in oupublic
and private schools.
G. The ost important men of our educational and religious
organizations are so Japanized that it is no longer worth while calling
t eir attention to matters detrimental to America (cf. enclosures 1-4)
H. nother professor has come from Japan to teach in the University
of Hawaii (a governmental institution) the teachers of the Japanese
Language Schools (hich are private and secretly unamerican). See
enclosures, 13 and 14.
J. The samo Japanese professor is to vrite a school book for
youmg Anoricans.
K. As a climax, I draw attention to enclosure 6, a photostat of
a torn letter from Setsuicki Aoki, secretary of the Society of Internat-
ional Cultural Relations in Tokyo, to ilfred C. Tsukiyama, Gity and
County Attorney at  onolulu. It deserved careful reading and considera tio
The first para raph To the Japan or Nippon Spirit, namely "Loyalty to
Japan" which is so regularly and religiously instilled into our Americans
of Japanese ancestry. It confirms the efforts made t dominate the minds
of our educators (cf. enclosures l-4). "Mippon's lission" is of course
"orld domination."
The sedond paragraph implies a confirmation of my interview with
the Consul's secretary, Tizuka, previously reported to you, which set the
date for the big moment of conquewt as about 1944.
The third para raph confirms the direct connection of Professor
Royama and Professor Kiyooka (of American text-book fame) with Japan
propaganda under the Cultural Bureau. Royama's big "blunder" was the
revelation he made to me of his plans for the "Text Book of Japan (See
A, above, and refer to Petition to lawaiian Le islature, 1935).
The fourth paragraph contains a suggestion, perhaps, by Tsukiyama
that the Cultural Bureau devise a plan to quicken expatriation, for the
sake of appearances (only).

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
5.
The fifth paragraph is unimtelligible to me.
The sixth paragraph contains only the ord, "Sakuramochi," which in
Inouye's diction is rendered "rice-cake wrapped in a cherry leaf." Its
present application is unknowm to me. It may be a slogan, or mean
"Confidential."
Of even greater importance is the identity of the letter's recipient.
Mr. Tsukiyama is an American citizen, and was also a Japanese citizen when
he first took offige under the Territory. Te was compelled to exratriate
by the Japanese consul, or apologise to Admiral Sterling for impertinent
remarks. He is the son of a Buddhist Priest and Priestess, educated by
the Prince Fushimi Fund, of which he is now a director. He is a part-
president and now director of a society pledged to bring Americans around
to Japan's way of thinking. He is the local man behind tho scene in
furthering Japanization artiities under the guise of promoting Japanese
culture. And yet, he was the an put forward by American educators and
others, at the Hawaiian statehood hearings bofore the Congressional Sub-
Committee in October, 1935, as the shining example of an American citizen
of Japanese extraction. In many ways they vere right.
It seems essential that the American Government take cognizance this
type of American citizen.
I might montion that I secured the letter on the evenin~ of arch 4th,
and had it photostated on the Sth. Thet evening, in my absonce, my home
was entered, and that letter, vith two others renoved.
"ow I secured this lctter is not of  resent momont. I shall gladly
aid your department at any time.
I have in my previous letters asked for some financial aid, and I
still feel that this work should be continued by all means. A man who
understands the Japanese people in Hawaii s ould independently carry out
this work and report to you from time to time; the reasons are obvious.
The small sum invested will more than compensate in results.
Trusting for your cooperation,
Respectfully submitted,
W. K. Ryhan
.K. Lyhan
Enclosures, 14.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
ENCLOSURES.
1. Letter to Dr. Dean, Regent and former president of the University,
and to Cç Rç Heminway, Regent.
2. Raply from Dr. Dean (Original.) - Note the letter head.
3. Roply from Heminway.
4. Letter, Sept. 21, 1934, to Oren Eç Long, Sup. Public Instruction
in the Territory of Hawaii.
5. Honolulu Times, Feb. 29, 1936, "Give them the Truth."
6. Photostat of letter from Sy Aoki to Wilfred Cç Tsukiyama.
7. Photostat, "Japan illistrates her own Ambitions."
8. (Page 2 of letter)
9. "Noted Explorer here," "On Goodwill Mission." Clippings from
Nippu Jiji, Honolulu.
10. "Japanese speaker Barred from UySy" Clipping from Honolulu
starjBulletin."
1l. "Viscount Ishii Named Chairman of Japanese Council of Institute,"
Clipping from Nippu Jiji.
12. "Gift received by University," Clipping, Honolulu Advertiser.
13. "Kiyooka, Sugano Arrive on Taiyo Maru from Japan."
Nippu Jiji.
14. "Kiyooka writing Child's History." Clipping, Honolulu Star-
Bulletin.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.95)
Honolulu. ahu. T.H.
1465 Fort Street.
ebruary 18. 1936.
President David L. Crawford.
University of Hawaii.
Honolulu. T. H.
My Dear President Crawford:
The press otuted that the riental Inati-
tute of the University of Hawaji is iving a course of study "desirned
especiully" and "arranged for local Japanese lunguage school teuchers."
There is no denying that the Jupunese "languuge schools have
a direct bearing on Hawaii's stunding before the Americun bur of
publio opinion". for the reuson that they have shown evidenees that
they interfere with the problem of citizenship.
The Japanese leuders have emphatically made this very pluin
and that the Japanese Government und their spokesmen have emphagized
on the "Jaranese spirit" and "Japanization."
The Paradise Times. a Jocul Jupunese chrintian monthly
edited by Rev. T. Okumura statod: (Jan, 193s).
"To-day Jupanese in Lawaii are displuying Japanese
spirit in full folor. Thie urv be the rouction of the
rise of nutionalism in Japan. Luny of the Jupanese
schools have become Jupanized. Imperial reser'pt is
boldly read nd taught. ..... Some have ponly de-
lured that they ure toaching Janunese pirit through
the modium of the J punese lunguuge."
The well known Buddkint mininter. ev. Shinryu Um buru.
who made an oxtensive lecture tour of  awaii und aci ie cunrt stat-s.
s..id: (1934).
"I am profoundly impresned ut the re t rt pluee of
the Japanese langua e sehools u ildhjct trler
in the Japanese o unit. The e I t-bud
rucial consciournes. Jue lture  pririt.
Those who are interested n the sorit of lawai  not
help but wonder if the niversity of Lawuii t ve iven thin lutest
movement their sincere und serious thoughts. weighing the two vjdes
of reasons and visions. ne cunnot help but register a urrrise und
alarm on this peculiar movement.
Dr. Inazo Nitobe, the formor uhairmun or the J pn ouneil
of the Institute of Pacific Relationg in 1932. snid:
"America has more peace ut uny price missionuries
than any other country. They possess neither the
inte ligence nor the vision to see things us thoy
are. Jonse quently what they suy in publio. though
not worth li tenine to is swallowed by the i norant.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
......Men in educational circles. jurists and
students of int, rnational law, are mostly stick-
lers for legal technicalities.
.....Do not forget. there are Americans who de-
fend Japan at almost every turn. even at the
risk of personal injury;......are they not the
very medium for bringing about better relat jons?
.....Why not introduce to them our ciltiral
attainments of which any nation can be proud of."
Visoount K. Ishii. the new chairman of Japan council of the
Institute of Pacific Relations said. in 1934:
"Teave the second generation in the land of their
residence. but don't let them forget the Japanese
spirit. It is this way. In buying select Japan-
ese goods. in voting cast the ballot for politi-
cians friendly to Japanese."
Mr. S. Aoki. the executive secretary of the Society of the
International Cultural Relations in 1934 said:
"For several years the school heads in Hawaii and
America with the aid of many influential educators
and missionaries made a thorough survey of American
textbooks for the Japanese Society. The surve
revealed that if proper propaganda is systematically
carried out in the schools, the American children
will become strong friends of Japan.
Former Japan's Consul-General. Honorable K. Okada. in Hono-
lulu. now head of the Foreign Office, Cultural Bureau in i934. said:
"In an almost blind frenzy we have adopted the civi-
lization of the West. We now find an urge to renew
our culture. This restoration is the burning ques-
tion of the present-day Japanese in Hawaii."
Rev. Umehara spoke the truth when he said the language schooB
and Buddhists temples are a "bot-bed of racial consciousness. Jananese
culture and spirit."
An attompt has been made and partially succeeded in jrcor ora
ting Japanese propaganda materials into the "textbook on Japan"
which was experimented in the high schools of Hawaii with the object
of spreading all over United States later. As you undoubtedly know.
this textbook is now not in use because of the many protest and con-
tinued publicity in America.
The Institute of Pacific Relations. the University of Hawaii.
the Publio Inetruction, the private high schools and the Japanese
oulture bureau and its subsidiaries were closely cooperating in putting
this Japanization educational propugmnda in Hawaii.
-2-

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
Professor Greig Sinclair's discussion group at the home of
iss Ermine Cross. £979 Kalakaua Avenue. invited Professor Royama
in 1934. He stated that he had been sent to Hawaii by the Japanese
Cultural Bureau as a professor at the University of Hawaji and ex-
plained that this Cultural Bureau had been established by the Japa-
nese Government for the purpose of promoting Japanese culture to
the western world. He was among the first if not the first. selected
to oarry out the mission of Japan.
Jater part of the 16th century Japan began to use the mis-
sionaries and oducators as gencies of propaganda, as shown by
General Hideyoshi's cleverness in using the Portuguese missionaries
in the preparation to attaok Korea. The same principle was used in
1894-'05 -- 1904-'05. and etc.
From continuous observation and study. it is now clear that
the Japanese government. through ohuins of cultural societies and
other agenoies. plan to work on the minds of udolescents and young
adults of American citizens of any race, and so mould them in Japan's
favor that within the coming decade, the American clectorate will
support Japan's policies. in particular, the throwing opan of America
to Japanese labor. This may be recognized by any American who has
not allowed himself to be blinded by the insidious influences of
the Japanese. Future action in yielding to Japan's persistent pres-
sure must determine the Japanization or Americanization of Hawaii.
With sincere prayer I am presenting this letter for your
information with the traditional spirit of America's constructive
criticism for America's security.
Yours truly.
KILSJO HAAN.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LTD.
SUGAR·PINEAPPLES-SHIPPING-INSURANCE
SAN FRANCISCO
SEATTLE
PORTLAND
No.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS
215 MARKET ST
B14 2ND AVENUE
327 S W PINE ST
ALEXBAID
HONOLULU. HAWAII. U.S.A.
822 BISHOP ST
February 21, 1936
Mr. Kilsoo Haan
1465 Fort Street
Honolulu, T. H.
Dear Mr. Haan:
Your letter of February 18 has been
received.
You may remember that a definite
effort was made a number of years ago (in
which I participated) to control the lan uage
schools.
This was frustrated by the courts.
I have been & member of the Institute
of Pacific Relations since its inception, I am
a Regent of the University, & Commissioner of
Public Instruction and a Trustee of Punahou
and I brand as absolutely false your statement
that those organizations are cooperating with
the Japanese Culture Bureau in any Jupanization
propagranda in Hawaii.
I see no relation between gaining an
understunding of a people with an appreciation
of its culture end approvel of its national
policies.
Because I studied German, admire
the achievements of German scholors, and enjoy
music composed by Germans I am not led thereby
to approve of Germany's policies leading to the
war, nor many of the acts of the Nazi regime.
In the same way some understanding of the Japunese
people end appreciation of their culture does not
lead me to approval of national policies.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
I em skeptical of the accuracy of your
concluding paregraph.
It is my opinion that a
sincere enalysis of your motives would show that
you are moved far more by a Korean hatred of Japan
than an interest in merica's security.
Very truly yours,
ahhray
ALD:EG

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LTD.
SUGAR·PINEAPPLES·SHIPPING-INSURANCE
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS
ALEXBALD
SAN FRANCISCO
215 MARKET ST
B14 2N0 AVENUE
SEATTLE
327 S W PINE ST
PORTLAND
No.
HONOLULU. HAWAII.U.S.A.
February 25, 1936
822 BISHOP
Mr. Kilsoo Haan
1465 Fort Street
Honolulu, Hawaii
Dear Sir
Your letter of February 18th was received in
due course. In it you charge the University
of Hawaii with taking an active part in a
program for the "Japanization" of Hawaii instead
of exerting its influence to build up and
strengthen American ideals. This charge is
utterly absurd. Friendliness and mutual respect
between nations must rest upon understanding and
knowledge of each by the other. Any contribution
which the University can make to this end is well
worth while. It seems to me that the Hymnof Hate
which you voice is directly in conflict with
American ideals.
Very truly yours
CHH:K

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
Honolulu, Oahu, T. H.
P. 0. Box 1919.
Sept.
1934.
Mr. Oren E. Long.
Superintendent of Publio Instruction,
Honelulu, T. H.
My Dear Mr. Long:+
I am extremely sorry if I have given
you the impression that I have deliberately deleted
your statement regarding your attitude toward the memace
of a militaristic nation toward world peace and happiness.
The recent interview in your office, have
made me to believe that your statement do-not collaborate
with your view and attitude toward the Japanization activi-
ties in Hawaii, therefore I did not think it was of any
signifioanoe, partioularly when you said that you were
"naturally a Pacifist". One cannot, as a matter of illus-
tration condemn and abhor the menaoing effects of *Dillin-
ger's" activities upon the American public and yet con-
scientiously. in the face of facts remain indifferent to
the activities of Dillinger's henohmen and their sympa-
thisers. Furthermore I believe your advocation of peace
at any price under the present world  tuation is un-American
and un-patriotio.
In as far as quoting the editorial, (as to
the possibility of American citizen of Japanese ancestry
poisoning their empleyers in time of war between the twe
countries, is concerned) I still believe one cannot be too
sure of oneself that they will not do so. You yourself
predicted that "perhaps many will stand up for the country
of their anoestry." If "many will stand up for their
country of their ancestry" against the U. 8. then I say it
is reaconably certain that they are capable of performing
such act or perhaps even more dreadful acts in the name of
"Dai Nippon".
Perhaps you do not understand the Japanese,
due only to your official contact, but when one live among
them, work, play and eat with them for 30 years, you will
have a olear conception of their patriotism and their
spirit of "Yamato Damashi", Their feel ing teward the white
race, particularly the white Amerioans will be of great
interect se yem and to all American Paeifist.
tots of 7 to 10 when playing they drematise the war between
-1-

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
Japan and the U. S.: "Samurai's" killing Americans, the
brave acts of "three human bembs" and ete.; they say Admiral
Tege is "our hero"; Japan's Emperor as "Our King".
Your conception of teaching Americanimm te the
Japanese decents in the public schools of Hawaii is very
pussling te me, instead of arresting the minds of the young-
sters from going to Japanese you encourage them and even
glory the aceomplishment of Japan. You further encourage
them by sympathising with the Japanization program ef the
alien Japanese who create an ntensive Japanese envirenment
in Hawaii.
In one breatm you condemm the detrimental effects
of the common practice of "Hemalimali" ameng the pure bleoded
Hawaiians, yet you say e must "homal imali" with the Japanese.
I am sorry you feel the way you feel about the
statement I have incorporated in my last letter regarding
the "mainland teacher". As I alearly reeall it. yem made
it clear. to impress me of your intention te all Kereans whe
are against Japanese activities in Hawaii) and you stressed
your remark by saying, "past sohool year and ete; you did
not mention Mr. Browntname in connection with the "mainland
teacher". However, I am glad you have made it clear to me,
for I do not desire to misquote you.
I am also very sorry if I have attributed to you
as having discriminated against teachers, I have said that
your statement indioated that you will ask any teacher to
leave the position if they hold anti-Japanese attitude.
And as far as Mrs. Haan's appointment is concerned
I still believe that you did not give her a fair deal and
shewed signs of discrimination, in spite of your statement
that you will not hold her responsible for the carrying out
of my work against the Japanese activities in Hawaii.
In conclusion I wish to state that I firmly beliew
that Pacifiism as you believe is detrimental to Ameriea's
national deeurity and therefore un-American. Your attitude
and indirect (whether knowingly or ignerantly) encouragement
of Japanese activities will retard Americanimm in Hawail
and if their activities are not arrested soen, the Japanese
decents will be the greatest asset to the Tokye Imperial
Government.
I shall be glad to call on you somet ime next week.
I thank you for your kind and frank letter.
Praying for your success and happiness.
Yours truly
KILSO0HAAY

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
THE HONOLULU TIMES, FEBE
'Give Them the Truth
The result is that 78,000 out of 105,000 are du
Fourth: Former Consul-General of Japan,
Okada, now head of Japan's Foreign Office C
WHEN, a few weeks ago, two Honolulu women, Mrs. J.
has much to do with Hawail's Japaniation actl
organizations said in 1934:
R. Mahaffy and Mrs. Julia Gatton, delegates to the
"In an almost blind frenzy we have adopted the
Women's Patriotic Conference on National Defense, were
West. We now find an urge to renew our cultur
quoted in a Washington dispatch as opposing statehood for
Hawaii, and the conference adopted a resolution asking Con-
Fifth: Paradise Times, Japanese Christian pub
1935:
gress "to negate any legislation favoring statehood" for the
"Today, Japanese in Hawaii are displaying Jap
Territory, on the ground that "Hawaii is largely Asiatic with
color. This may be the reaction of the rise of
Japanese holding political power," the pro-statehood Star-
Many of the Japanese schools have been Japanized
Bulletin erupted in an indignant editorial captioned "Give
is boldly read and taught ... Some teachers have onen
Them the Truth."
they are teaching Japanese spirit through the motiu
nese language."
"All the people of Hawaii ask," said the editorial. "is a
Sixth: Rev. Takie Okumura, 1934: (Christian)
square deal, based on an honest presentation of facts.
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite
But what chance is there of getting an honest presenta
Japanese seems to be Japanized more and more"
Seventh: Rev. Shinryu Umehara, a Buddhist priest
tion of facts in that paper if the facts happen to be contrary
island-wide lecture and survey in 1934, said:
to the paper's policy or desires?
"I am profoundly impressed at the great place 
To illustrate: After the publication of that editorial, a
language schools and Buddhist temples in the Japanese
Honolulu resident of Oriental birth wrote a letter to the Star-
They are a hot-bed of racial consciousness, Japane
Bulletin in which he set forth certain facts unpalatable to
spirit . .
Eighth: Executive Secretary S. Aoki of the Soclety of
that paper. What he said consisted nmostly of quotations from
Cultural Relations of Japan, said:
well known Japanese authorities.
"For several years the school heads in Hawail and
But did the Star-Bulletin publish the leter of Mr. W. K.
the aid of many influential educators and missionarle
ough survey of American textbooks for the Japanese 
Lyhan? Don't be silly.
vey revealed that if proper propaganda is systematically
A copy of the letter has been sent to TnE: HoNottL
the schools, the American children will become strong friend
TimEs—not, however, by the writer of the letter. And in the
Let us view the present situation sincerely and hor
interest of fair play and to "Give Them the 'Truth." it is
not a fact that some of our leading citizens are indirectly
Japanese to Japanize Hawaii in the name of "peace" and
herewith presented. We believe it contains matter that is
tionalism?"
pertinent and illuminating. Here it is:
The Japanese leaders admit and boast of the results of
Some eighteen years ago President T. R. Roosevelt dictated a mes-
tion of the Japanese communities. They openly declare thel
sage to the American people. He said:
policies are to instil Japanese Spirit through Japanese langu
"There must be no sagging back in the fight for Americanism.
societies. young peoples organizations, religious teachings
merely because the war is over. There are plenty of persons who have
they. when buying, "buy Japanese goods" and, when votin
already made the assertion that they believe the American people have
ballot for politicians friendly to Japanese."
a short memory and that they intend to revive all the foreign associ-
But what about the American leaders? We find ther
ations which most directly interfere with the complete Americanization
denying the truth of these Japanese activities within 
withstanding that the Japanese themselves not only admit
of our people
boast of them.
"There can be no divided allegiance here. Any man who says he
All thinking citizens and residents fully agree with you
is an American, but something else also, isn't an American at all. We
comment: "All the people of Hawaii ask is a square deal
have room for but one flag, the American flag. ... We have room for but
honest presentation of the facts and the chance of getting
one language here, and that is the American language, for we intend
any group of Americans."
to see that the crucible turns our people out as Americans. of Ameri-
I hope you will present these facts to the American pub
can nationality, and not as dwellers in a polyglot boarding house; and
we have room for but one soul loyalty, and that is loyalty to the
American people."
Kentucky distillers are up in arms over the 50 pe
I am sure all loyal Americans say "Amen" to this message. What
reduction in duty on Canadian whisky. They figure
about Hawaii?
serious threat to the Bourbon dynasty.—Springfield Uni
Let me quote a few of the latest Japanese statements and their
keen observations.
25c TAXI 25c
Storage- Packing-Shi
First: Dr. Inazo Nitobe, former chairman of Japan Counsel of the
Baggage, Furnitare
Institute of Pacific Relations; Adviser to Osaka Mainichi: Member of
Piano Moving
the House of Peers; Delegate to the League of Nations Culture Bureau:
PHONE 2223
Honolulu Construction & Draying C
author of "Bushido" etc. After a year's survey of American weak
DE LUXE CAB STAN D
nesses, hø made a report in these words:
"America has more peace-at-any-price missionaries than any other
CAN RIDE FOR
country. They possess neither the intelligence nor the vision to see
THE PRICE OF
things as they are. Consequently what they say in public, though not
All New Cars and Radio Equipped
worth listening to, is swallowed by the ignorant.
Special Rates for
Round-the-Island Trips
"Men in educational circles, jurists and students of international
JACK MUNFORD, Proprietor
law are mostly sticklers of tecnnicalities.
Cor. King & Alakea Streets
SERVICE FIRST
"Do not forget, there are Americans who defend Japan at aimost
Opposite Kapiolani Bidg.
Phone 4981
every turn, even at the risk of personal injury
Second: Viscount Ishii, the man who put one over our Secretary
of State Lansing (famous "Lansing-Ishii" Agreement), the new chair-
NOW
man of the Janan Counsel of the Institute of Pacific Relations recently
merged under the International Association of Japan as a semi-official
organization under the Foreign Office; President of the Institute for
at your fa orite bar, club or cafe
Overseas Japgnese, said:
"Leave the second generation in the land of their residence, but
EASTSIDE BE
don't let them forget the Jananese Spir't It is this wav. In buving
select Japanese goods; in voting, cast the ballot for politicians friendly
to Jananese.
IN CANS
Third: The New American Conference Annual; Dual Loyalty:
"For the alien Japanese resident in Hawaii to encourage the spirit
The Perfection of the Brewer's Ar
their sons and daughters to bloom into full flower is
to America but to their own country as well."

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
JAPAN ILLUSTRATES HER OWN AMBITIONS
包
地球
7
went to a Japanese store in Kobe to buy a kimono. The parcel was wrapped up, but imagine
ind, upon unwrapping it, the above reproduced cardboard wrapper. The Japanesc characters
inese jingoists are spreading their "world domination" ideas to their citizens.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.95)
in
NOTED EXPLORER HEE
Another prominent arrival hère
on the Taiyo Maru war Ritio Su-
gano, noted Japanese world xplorer
and lectjirer, vi-
ke
siting here for the
first tinhe in 13
111
a-
years.
is
Sugano has just
y.
made an extensive
1
s-
tour of Manchou-
i
kuo and Mongolia
t
and he plans to
C
d
talk of his obser-
a
t.
vations there in
t
1-
the course of an
1
g
island-widelecture
c
tour during the
rt
n1
R. Sugano
next two months.
From here he will go to the
s
mainland. where he expects to visit
F
for about four months, and then ei-
c
y
ther go to South America or return
r
k
to Japan after that.
F. W. Walker Dies
0
r
e
Japanese Speaker
Rites On Friday
O
e
ON GOODWILL MISSION
i
C
11
.0
Among the interesting through
it
1-
a
Barred From U. S.
Frederick William Walker. 50.
e
passengers was Tokushi Suhara. a
representative of the departrient of
n
t
e
education of the
r
well known plantation engineer.
Japanese govern-
d
On the technical ground that he
died at 4:80 p. m. Wednesday at a
ment, who is
p
e
was likely to become a public
local hospital following a long ill-
n
known as "a friend
ti
g
f
charge, Rikio Sugano. Japanese Jec-
turer who arrived in Honolulu
ness.
For the past 25 years Mr. Walker
1
generation Japan-
of t he second
1
February 8 on the Taiyo Maru, was
had been associated with the engr-
g
ese of the United
s.
barred from admission to
necring staffs of plantation- at
States in Japan.'
a
1
United States.
Ewa, Oahu: Kohala. Hawan, and
e
A former resi-
e
Behind the technicality barring
2
dent of Los An-
Sugano from admission was the fact
The lecturer's appheat en for entry
geles, Suhara re-
that he visited the United States.
was rejected by a board of peesad
s
turned to Japan
including Hawail. about 13 years
inquury at Honotuho He did not
two years ago and
ago on a lecture tour to which he
elect to appeal from the teoding
began his work
urged strict loyalty of those of.
among the Ame-
T. Suhara
r
Japanese blood to Japan.
rican-born young people in Tokyo.
Those facts were revealed today
There are 735 so-calleú second
generation Japanese students in
Tokyo at present, Suhara said. Of
this number. only about 400 are ac-
I,
tually attending their classes, while
the rest are "just loafing."
8.
His present trip will take him to
O'
San Francisco, Los Angeles, Seattle,
n
New York and other cities in order
t
to extend an invitation to outstand-
St
ing public school teachers in these
cities to visit Japan at the expense
F
of some wealthy Japanese people.
ii
Suhara expects to return to Ho-
d
nolulu in April and will remain here
f1
about a month before resuming his
trip back to Japan.
(i
PRIEST. DOCTOR ARRIVE
F
Also arriving here were the Rev.
11
Ryokai Fukui, Buddhist priest. whc
si
will be connected with the Nishi
C
Hongwanii Mission of Hawaii, and
p.
Nipn Jiji
2/8-36

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
connned in, dungeons, were on a
to
hunger strike and were Deins farcib-
Kiyooka, Sugano
her
on
es-
ied
Arrive On Taiyo
om
ge.
Carr, language
ty members, headed by Denzel
tee of University of Hawaii facul-
Dr. Crawford said. "A commit-
the purchase of books on Japan."
University of Hawdii.
L. Crawford. president of the
nounced yesterday by Dr. David
Oriental Institute library was an-
Cultural bureau of Japan to the
Money Will Buy Books
Gift Received
ny
Maru From Japan
"The money will be used for
A gift of 20.000 yen from the
ly-
ced
Nipu giji 2/8-36
By University
.nd
sts
id.
Former Will Teach at
On Japan
in-
U.H., Latter to Give
me
Series of Lectures
instructor, has
lie.
ras
rk.
of
Here as visiting professor of Jap-
nd
anese culture, history and language
es-
at the University of Hawaii during
the second semester, Prof. Eiichi
Kiyooka of Keio university, Tokyo,
d-
arrived on
the
on.
Taiyo Maru this
with former Consul General Oka-
tions for this financial assistance
volumes to the library.
collection of several
previously donated a personal
terest of the university. He had
an at his own expense in the in-
of books, Dr. Crawford said.
society to help with the purchase
tance in persuading the Cultural
lulu banker, was of great assis-
saku Nakamura. retired Hono-
for securing the library gift. Gen-
jiro Tamura and his predecessors
Crawford to Consul General Tei-
lish and other languages.
including titles in Japanese. Eng-
needed in the Institute library.
already prepared a list of books da. When Okada returned to To
he
of
morning with Mrs.
Dr. Crawford began negotia-
Nakamura made a trip to Jap-
Credit is given by President
Kiyooka for a stay
J.
of approximately
he
six months.
Prof. and Mrs.
n-
ice
Kiyooka
werc
hi-
greeted at
the
ese
dock
Prof
of
Gregg M. Sin-
ihs
clair. director of
im
the Oriental In-
was
stitute of the uni-
thousand
versity, Dr. Ro-
Prof. Kiyooka
er.
manzo Adams, who met them dur-
JS-
ing his visit to Japan last year, and
is
other friends.
Under the auspices of the Ori-
h-
ental Institute, Kiyooka will offer
osophy. literature :and others.
cluding art. history, science, phil-
lishers' lists in many fields. in-
Books were selected from pub-
volumes to the university library
20.000 yen will add 7.000 or more
years." Dr. Crawford said.
from the same source
gifts to the library
dies. it is probably
vanced centers for Oriental
the logical and farthest
San Francisco and Honolulu ant
has decided that Paris. New York.
the University of Hawaii libras
tinued to work in the interest of
ernmental position
kyo to assume an important gov-
1S-
three courses at the university be-
It is believed that the gif: of
"Because the cultural
ginning February 20. They will in-
clude Cultural History of Japan
Modern Japanese Leaders (Meiji
and Taisho eras), and Methods of
Teaching Japanese (designed espe-
cially for Japanese language school
teachers).
Kiyooka is the grandson of the
late Yukichi Fukuzawa, educational
there he con-
leader of the Meiji era and founder
of Kejo university. and Mrs. Kiyo-
will
oka is the daughter of Mme. Etsui
Sugimoto. famous author of "The
future
Daughter of the Samurai
and one-
come
time lecturer at Columbia universi-
2
New York.
to

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
Koyooka Writin
Child's Hist
Dr. Eiichi Kiyooka annount
day that he is writing a book ok ge
history of Japan. designed primanly
for American children about10
years of age.
The history is being writte in
. y simple language. so that am:
mar school children may readily
nderstand the material, but Dr.
Kiyooka hopes that it will be in-
teresting to adults as well.
A portion of the first chapter has
already been completed and deals
with the legend of the sun goddess.
Amaterasu. found in the Kojiki. the
oldest book in Japanese.
Dr. Kiyooka will continue from
the prehistoric period. which deals
with gods and goddesses. to the
period of man. and will conclude
the history with the modern age.
He will also write an introduction.
which will explain what is meant
by the hustory of Japan and will
make comments at the end of cach
story exlaning its significance
Although he will return to Japan
by September of this year. Dr. Ki-
yooka hopes to have his book pub-
lished in America
Dr. Kiyooka has alieady pub-
lished the autobiography of Yuki-
chi Fukuzawa. a copy of which may
be had at the University of Ha-
aji hibrary.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.96)
Januany 24,1986
PAGE TWO
The Nippu Niji
FERA In Hawaii
May Terminate
Published Every Afternoon Except Sunday
YASUTARO SOGA
President and Editor
Around June 30
Entered as second class matter November 2, 1906, at the postoffice of
Honolulu, Hawaii, under Act of March 3. 1879.
Subscription rates, paid in advance: 1 month $1; 6 months $5.25; 1 year $10
EDITORIAL AND BUSINESS OFFICES
Instructions to all local adminis-
Telephone 6091-Private exchange connecting all departments. After
trators to discontinue immediately
business hours and on Sundays and Holidays call:
all new applications for work relief
Business Dept. 6091 : Circulation Dept. 6092 : Editorial Rooms 6093
in order to hasten the absorption
920-928 Nuuanu Street : : Honolulu. Hawai1 : : P. O. Box 1230
of FERA employes by PWA and
private industry have been sent out
PRESS SERVICE—The Nippu Jiji subscribes to the International News
by Frank H. Locey. territorial direc-
Service which maintains an army of correspondents in all parts of the
tor, on orders from Col. Lawrence
world and a system of leased wires which enables it to gather news and
Westbrook, assistant FERA admin-
exclusive features accurately and quickly.
istrator at Washington.
Member of the Associated Press. The Associated Press is exclusively
Strong indications that the FERA
entitled to the use of republication of all news dispatches credited to it
will go out of existence around
published herein.
or not otherwise credited to this newspaper and also all Jocal news
June 30 were seen in Locey's an-
nouncement that the 3,500,000 al-
Rtepresented nationaily by S. H. Williams & Co., Inc.; San Francisco,
lotment last summer, which has
220 Montgomery St.; Los Angeles, Western Pacific Building; Chicago. 43
been used to carry on FERA pro-
I
East Ohio St.; New York, 228 East 45th St.
jects, will have been depleted on or
Copies of The Nippu Jiji may be secured at any of these offices where
about June 30, after which all re-
th
full data regarding the Honolulu market may also be had.
maining funds will be lapsed to the
to
FERA in Washington.
ga
Nanking's Financial Problems
The total involved in PWA pro-
M
jects in the islands, which have
wi
been in operation since December,
si
Masaji Yoshida, manager of the Shanghai branch of Mitsubishi
is $1,370,935.97. The program will
continue through December of this
wi
Bank, has an interesting article on the future of the Chinese
year, but the peak of employment
al
monetary program, as a result of the nationalization of silver,
will have been passed in September.
A 2,500,000 territorial highway
of
af
in a recent issue of a Japanese publication.
program, however, will be under
sa
This is what Mr. Yoshida says:
to Louis S. Cain, superintendent of
way in the summer, and according
to
"Because of serious flaws in the preparations, the enforced
public works, it will absorb at the
ha
monetary reform has not accomplished much to date, save for
peak about 2,600 men. At present
$1,000,000 is in operation, providing
w1
monetarily stabilizing the foreign exchange market. Under the
work for 1,300 men.
de
circumstances, we can hardly refrain from feeling much appre-
way or to be launched will absorb
Army and navy projects under
br
su
hension in regard to the future.
an additional 1,500 men.
a
"If the Nanking government should continue the present un-
Viscount Ishii Named
ab
natural deflation, industrial rehabilitation and the regaining of
de
export prosperity cannot be hoped for. The exchange market,
Chairman Of Japanese
th
too, is bound to drop the moment the market obtains a surplus
Council Of Institute
ke
to any extent.
in;
pr
"I would hardly go so far as to liken China's monetary situ-
ation to that connected with the collapse of the Mukden notes
Japanese ambassador to the United
Viscount Kikujiro Ishii. former
n
some years ago and of the German marks after the World War.
States. has been named chairman
ha
In fact, spreading pessimism is far from my intention.
of the Japanese council of the In-
ad
stitute of Pacific Relations and
OV.
"As long as the Nanking government is on guard against the
Japanese member of the Pacific
en
promiscuous. issue of currency and strives desperately to stave
council of the institute, succeeding
re
the late Dr. Inazo Nitobe, accord-
ge.
off the threatened upset of the exchange equilibrium, even at
ing to word received here.
la:
that it will succeed in averting the rock-bottom drop of the
the cost of industrial recovery, there is little reason to doubt
announced Yonowing the merger
last month of the Japanese counch
Viscount Ishii's appointment was
L1
to
yuan's value.
Kokusai Kyokai or the Interna-
of the institute and the Nihon
no
de
We may put the distant future out of consideration, but I
tional Association of Janan of
st1
am inclined to believe that the finances and international account
which Viscount Ishii is chairman.
lis
The affilintion of the Jepanese
of the Nanking government, after remaining in the present state
IP.R. group with the International
ro
for some little time, will gradually stabilize themselves.
on such a basis that while the
Association of Japan was effected
ex
tun of America's silver policy. Should the United Stat s throw
What demands our utmost attention is the possible future
a department within the latter. It
former organization shall constitute
"D
ble
shall continue to be called the
pverboard her present plan, or cease buying silver abroad alto-
gether, a sudden and phenomenal decline of silver prices would
of Pacific Relations. the announce-
Japanese council
ment said.
SW
he
sh
follow.
"In that event, although China has ceased to be a silver stand-
inciude: Chairman, Viscount Kiku-
committee of the Japanese council
Members of the next executive
ple
firs
ard country, the value of money is bound to go down side by
jiro Ishil: vice-chairman. Dr. Tadao
1 f
side with the falling silver prices, inasmuch as silver forms the
Yamaknwa: secretary. Tomohiko
tel
Ushiba. and members at large, Ku-
bulk of her reserve specie. Such an apprehenston was already
nizo Hara. Yukichi Twanaga. Count
his
suggested by the sudden dechine of sieer on the 1 ondon market.
Sanii Kuroki
Shiroshi Nasu.
Jumpe!
tab
1.a.
the moment America changed her tacties of vheer buy ng
Shanobu.
Kenzo
Takayanagi,
JuS
ceasing to concentrate her putchases in Lendon"
Mr. Yoshida then calls attention of Chumese noth
Kadono,
Yoshiro
did
sotH
Eve
three important point
ing
Fnst, in isnnch
deanddoned the

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
What demands our utrost attention is the possible future
tormer otranization chon
tun of Amèrica's silver policy. Should the United States throw
a department Within the at
shal continue to
overboard her present plan, or cease buying silver abroad alto-
gether, a sudden and phenomenal decline of silver prices would
of Pacific Relations, the announce-
ment said.
follow.
Members of the next executive
"In that event, although China has ceased to be a silver stand-
committee of the Japanase counell
include: Chairman, Viscount Kiku-
ard country, the value of money is bound to go down side by
side with the falling silver prices, inasmuch as silver forms the
Yamakawa; secretary, Tomohiko
Ushiba, and members at large, Ku-
bulk of her reserve specie. Such an apprehension was already
nizo Hara. Yukichi Iwanaga, Count
suggested by the sudden decline of silver on the London market,
Sanji Kuroki, Dr. Shiroshi Nasu,
Pr
the moment America changed her tactics of silver buying by
ceasing to concentrate her purchases in London.'
Mr. Yoshida then calls attention of Chinese authorities to
three important points.
Prof. Yasaka Takaki, Yusuke Tsu-
First, inasmuch as the Nanking government has completely
rumi.
abandoned the silver standard, what China needs for maintaining
and stabilizing her foreign exchange is to concentrate attention
Better Lighting For
ple
an
on the specie reserve abroad, with gold and silver as auxiliaries,
City Streets Proposed
tat
and not the silver hoarded within the country.
By Supervisor Sing
Second, the chief factor that caused the Nanking government
F
ánd China's financial circles no end of embarrassment during the
Swt
past several years was the government's abnormal relations with
In his plan for an improved
pla
other powers.
street lighting system for Honolulu,
Supervisor Philip Sing will request
I
a.
Particularly regrettable are the strained Sino-Japanese relations,
the board of supervisors next Tues-
"It
which are the principal reason for China's financial difficulty.
day for an appropriation of $6,150
to install a row of 44 highly lumin-
jus
Ple
Unless the relations are restored to normal without delay, China
ous lamps on Kapiolani boulevard
stands little chance of securing foreign loans, of improving for-
from Ward street to Kalakaua
avenue.
hw
B
eign trade, and of aocomplishing industrial recovery.
Sing aid this installation would
da.
Third, basically, political relations cannot be separated from
be just the first step in a street
lighting project which eventually
is
the monetary question. Yet, when the monetary problem grows
would include Beretania and Kala-
"
kaua avenues at an expenditure of
ed
as complicated as it is in China today, she could not do better
$15,000.
than to separate that problem from all political questions and
The proposed lighting would be
wit:
similar to that on King street,
L
devote her heart and soul to the relief and stabilization of the
which has been installed by the
Ka1
currency.
city-county as an experiment.
She
was
Motorist Cleared In
Maui Meisho Y.M.B.A.
$6,579 Worth Of Xmas
“
Fort Street Fatality
Union Elects Officers
Seals Sold On Hawaii
difī
as
At Lahaina On Sunday
ma'
she
Kinzo Umeda was cleared of
Nippu Jiji Correspondence
manslaughter charges in connection
HILO. Jan. 23.—Contributions to-
is a
with the traffic death of Tsuruki
Nippu Jiji Correspondence
taling $6,579.37 from sale of Christ-
the
Moriyama Christmas Day on Fort
WAILUKU, Maul. Jan. 23.—Tadao
mas seals on this island were re-
to :
street. when the grand jury yes-
Fujiyoshi of Lahaina was elected
ported today by Ernest A. Lilley,
ther
terday
afternoon returned a "no
president of the Maui Meisho
chairman of the promotion commit-
tale
bill."
Y.M.B.A. Union at a meeting held
tee in charge of the sale.
sure
at the Lahaina Jodo Mission last
Lilley's report added that the
wor
Kanegafuchi Plans 4
Sunday afternoon.
conmittee expects an
additional
like
More Spinning Mills
president. T. Sorayama. Puunene;
Other officers elected were: Vice-
closed.
$200 before the books
are finally
end
ent.
is r
Nichi Nichi's financial writer today
said the Kanegafuchi spinning
company visualizes continued ex-
pansion of Japan's cotton trade and
was arranging to build four addi-
tional rayon and cotton nmills. add-
inga total of 110,000 spindles.
Nippon Dempo
Know Your Bible
TOKYO. Jan. 24. — The Tokyo
zuki, Lahaina; treasurer, T. Mori-
Puunene, and executive committee,
Miyuki Fujii. Clarence Namaye,
mura, Puunene.
English secretary, N. Minami, La-
haina; Japanese secretary, T. Ko-
moto. Wailuku: auditor, T. Yoshida,
both of Wailuku, and Shigeki Ta-
installed into office at a social at
the Lahaina Jodo Mission on Sun-
day. Eebruary 23.
Outgoing officers are: President.
The new offcers will be formally
250 rare Japanese coins will be sold
at public auction at Mrs. Saiki's
Curio shop on Saturday morning, it
Rare Japanese Coins
To Be Sold In Hilo
was reported today.
Nippu Jiji Correspondence
It was claimed some of the coins
HILO, Jan. 23.—A collection of
gree
mer
ple
day
but
in a
kin
you
slee
“]
"I
W. K. Fujita, Wailuku; vice-presi-
date back several hundred years and
ties
questions?
By EVELYN K DUNLOP B.A
Can you
answer the following
luku: Japanese secretary, Miyuki
Fujii. Wailuku: treasurer. Shigeki
dent. T. Yoshida. Puunene: English
secretary. Clarence Namaye. Wai-
Tamura. Puunene: auditor. Tadao
are worth as high as 10,000 yen in
Japan.
the show window of the shop.
The coins are now on display in
It i
tioi
K
Q-According to Romans 15:4
Fujiyoshi. Lahaina: executive com-
Greetings
F
what was the purpose of writing
mittee. K. Kimoto. Puunene. and
Lin
the Bible?
E. Mishima and K. Izumi, both of
sho
A—"Whatsoever things were writ-
Lahaina.
TORU KAWAMOTO
“]
and comfort of the Seriptures might
stow certain
aboui "graciousness '?
have hope."
ten aforetime were written for our
learning. that we through patience
Q-Who is the one who can he-
"graces" and bring
ants association is holding its an-
nual meeting at the Kasuga tea-
house on Liliha street next Tues-
day at 7 p.m.
RESTAURANT MEN MEETING
The Honolulu Japanese Restaur-
serving the 36th anniversary of his
school in 1919. He was bookkeeper
birth today. He was born in Hono-
lulu on January 24, 1900. and at-
tended the Kaahumanu school and
the Hawalian Trust Co., Ltd., is ob-
Tas graduated from McKinley High
Toru Kawamoto, bookkeeper of
I w
test
can
can
Thi
cer
consolation grant you to be like-
A—"Now the God of patience and
cord?
A—"Receive ye one nnother, as
seven years and was connected with
and cashier of the old Pond Co. for
you
K
minded one toward another accord-
Christ slso recelved us to the glory
the Honolulu Furniture Co. for one
the
ing to Christ Jesus." Romans 15:5.
of God; that ye may with one mind
year before joining the Hawalian
the
Q-Although there may not al-
and mouth glorify God, the Father
Trust Co. Kawamoto is a member
war
there be & general sympathetio oon-
ways be identity of opinion, should
of our Lord Jesus Christ," verses
6-7.
anese fraternal organization.
of the Chikasaw guild, Jocal Jap-
one
ery

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1935 DEC 23 AM I0 22
Honolulu. Oahu. T. H.
1465 Fort St.
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
SDecember £1, 1935.
AND RECORDS
Honorable Cordell A. Hull.
file
Beoretary of State U.S.A.,
1m.m.
state Department,
Washington, D. C.
A
8
Honorable Sir:
力
My contact with the Japanese Consulate have
been quite fruitful and in order to follow up to the final
.20211a
outeome. it is necessary for me to meet the Vice Consul
of San Francisco and a Secretary of the Japanese Consulafe
in Los Angeles.
No doubt you have received the photo-statio
copies whioh will prove my outline of the situation.
I hope if it is humanly possible, to be there
about January 15th as request ed by Mr. Secretary Iizuka of the
Japan Foreign Office. This is somewhat of a test they are con-
ducting in order to take me into their complete confidence in
the plans as I have stated in my letters forwarded to you.
I sincerely believe the work if properly pur-
sued and carried out I will succeed and will be a great value
to the United States.
,w
I have from time to time reported the progress
to Commander Kilpatrick of Hono lulu, U. S. Navy Inteeligence
Department. He has aided and cooperated with me to some ex-
tent. but as I have related. I cant carry on anymore without
大
funds especially when I have to leave for San Francisco and
Los Angeles.
As to my loyalty and sincerity I would like
to refer to Captain Willis W. Bradley. Jr. of Long Beach.
California, Secretary of Hawaii Arthur A. Greene, and Commander
Kilpatrick of U. S. Navy Intelligence Department in Honolulu.
I believe this is a valuable undertaking and
contribution toward preparation for National Defense.
-1-

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
I trust that you will give my request your just consi-
deration as soon as possible. I have been promised some finan-
cial assistance from the Sino-Korean Peoples Ieague. but due
to the present China situation, it may be along time before
they will be able to do so.
My immediate need is about $400.00 to get to San Fran-
ciaco after paying the necessary preparation in connection
with this work and thereafter whatever amount you think best
to keep me going for four to six months there. I believe I
will be able to accomplish this within the time mentioned.
Commander Kilaptrick thinks this is an important work
but due to lack of funds for such matter outside of his juris-
diction he cannot freely aid me financially. Particularly in
naval matters he has given me financial aid about $160.00
during the past three months.
I am trusting that you would soon give me the answer.
Yes or No. If I can't get any aid from you I feel I have done
my best.
Lay God bless you.
Yours tru ly.
W. K. Ryhan
W. K. IYHAN
- 2 -
7

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.95)
H_OL
DEPARTMENTOATE
Honolulu, Oahu. T. H.
DIVISION OF
Nov. 29, 1935.
COMMUNICATIONS
fle
Honorable Cordell A. Hull.
AND RECORDS
Secretary of State.
State Department, U.S.A.
.9.C,
Washington, D. C.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 9- 1935
dec ad 22 1  /3
Honorable Sir:
Department of State
8
6
Enclosed please find three photostat copies and
力
a copy of my conversation with Mr. Iizuka which I believe will be
of interest to the State Department.
2
Number 1 is a copy of S. Nakamura's letter ad-
0211a
dressed to me on the 26th of November, 1935, enclosing the intro-
ducotry letter to Mr. K. Yonegaki, the Vice-Consul General of
Japan in San Francisco. Mr. Nakamura is a member of the Foreign
Office Intelligence Department in Hawaii. Nakamura is not his
real name. I do not know his real name.
Number 2, Introductory letter from Nr. Iizuka
to Vice-Consul-General Yonegaki.
Number 3 is a letter from Secretary of Hawaii
Mr. Arhtur A. Greene to It. Col. Patton. Jr. of the U.S.A. Intel-
ligence Department in Hawaii. The letter was given to me in con-
junction of my request to the G-2 in effort to get a concession
of tailoring and clothes cleaning at the new Hickham Airfield of
the U. S. Army. I hope Secretary Greene's letter will be of some
value to understand my sincerity and loyalty to America.
I am getting nearer to the nlans of Japan in
Hawaii and if the State Department can finance my work I am sure
of getting to the bottom of Japan's underhanded policy undermin-
ing Americanism in Hawaii.
ω.
I sincerely hope and pray you will give my request
your consideration soon. As soon as I can finance the work I am
大.
hoping to leave for San Francisco.
Thank you.
Yours truly.
W.K. Lyhan
W. K. LYHAN
P.S. W. K. LYHAN is the official name of the Sino-Korean Peoples
League given to me.
The above copies has been forwarded to the Naval Intelligence
Department in Honolulu to the person of Commander Kilpa-
trick. Federal Bldg., Honolulu. T. H.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
Nov. £7. 1935.
The gist of Iizuka's Conversation.
I am wery happy that we will be able to try out the plans
which I have had in mind since my coming to Hawaii. You will find
Mr. Yonegaki understanding man. Be frank with bim in all your
dealings with him, be will give you the necessary ideas of the work
as we have planned. Once you prove your ability. we will trust you
to a greater project.
I have heard of the rumors about the island of Hawaii being
as a possible center of farming by the Japanese. As I have told you.
that the military people &lways have such bright ideas, but such
proposals are dangerous when the government takes radical actions.
Never mind about that it is the Oversea's department worry now. if
they can succeed. it will be fine. Be very careful about the iden-
tity of Nakamura -- anyway Nakamura is a lucky name -- it was Naka-
mura that gave a chance for Japan to take action in Manchukuo.
盈y
W. K. Rykan

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
July 11 1935
CONFIDENTIAL.
My dear Me. Sesretary:
There are herewith enclosed copies of certain corre-
pondense, referred to this Department by the Mavy Depart-
ment, from Mr. V. S. MoClatohy, Rxeeutive Becretary of the
894.20211A/6
California Joint Immigration Committee, in regard to an
alleged proposal by the "Department of Cultural Relations
of Japan" to supply certain educational material in the
nature of propaganda for use in the public schools of the
Torritory of Hawaii.
It seems likely that the organisation lest named is
the Kokusai Bunka Shinko Kai, or "Society for Internatiomml
Cultural Relations", a semi-offioial body sponsored in part
by the Department of Foreign Affairs of the Japanese Govern-
ment. For your confidential information there is hereto
appended an exeerpt from a report desoribing this organiza-
tion, prepered by the Ameriean Embassy in Tokyo.
In
The Honorable
Harola L. Iokes,
Seeretary of the Interior.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.95)
-8-
Im comsidering this matter, it would be helpful could
it be aseertained whether there is basis in fact for the
report that materials supplied by this organisation are to
be used in public sahools of the Territory of Hawaii. If
it should appear that this report is in agreement with the
fasts, it is suggested that an investigation be made in
regard to the nature and propriety of the materials to be
supplied.
It is believed that the Bureau of Education is in
position to conduet an investigation into this matter, and
it is therefore requested that such investigation be under-
taken disoreetly for the information and guidanee of this
Dopartment.
As of possible interest to you in this connection, it
is reported that Miss Helen Gay Pratt, of the Department of
Public Instruction of Hawaii, 1s in New York at the invita-
tion of a unit of Teachers' College in conneetion with an alleged
project to have certain Japanese professors compile material
for use in American public schools.
Sincerely yours,
Corde" Hul
nal.
an+
Enolosures:
S
OR
As stated.
JU28 193
WTT
LDSmm.N.
FE:WTT/DLY
SK

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
THE ASSISTANT SEORETAPY OF THE NAVY
Washington
PERSONAL
21 June 1935
Honorable William Phillips
Under Secretary of State
State Department
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
I send you herewith certain correspondence regarding
propaganda in the Territory of Hawaii.
It has been suggested that this might be of interest
to your office.
Sincerely yours,
H. L. ROOSEVELT
(encls)

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
THE WHITE HOUSE
Washington
June 18, 1935
MEMORAN  FOR SECRTARY ROOSEVELT:
I am returning herewith the McClatchy correspondence.
The President asked me to suggest to you that you show
this to the State Department.
M. H. MCINTYRE
Assistant Secretary
to the President

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
offioe of the Assistant Secretary
Washington
10 June 1935
Memorandum for Colonel McIntyre:
Subjoct: Japanese propaganda in American schools.
The attaohed letter from the Executive Secretary
of the California Joint Immigration Committee, with
which is enclosed certain information concerning
propagaada in the Territory of Hawaii, is forwarded to
you as being of pertinent interest at this time.
H. L. R.
(onole)

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGRATION CONMITTEL
85 Second Street
San Francisco, California.
June 3, 1935.
Honorable Hoary L. Roosevelt,
Assistant Seoretary of the Navy,
Washington, D. C.
For Mr. Roosevelt's Personal Attention.
My dear Sir:
In the San Francisco Examiner, May 22nd, 1935, in
an article written by you, is found the following para-
graph:
"For emmple, look into the mhools in politi s.
They are vital. It is in the schools and colleges that
we prepare the citizen of tomorrow for his task; and it
is these young people who must receive and transmit the
ideals which we would have survive. And I conclude, re-
lustamtly, that Americanism is not taught in our sohools
to the extent that it should be taught."
You will be interested undoubtedly, therefore, in
the following statement of facts; there was presented to
the Hawatian Logislature on March 27th, a request for
investigation of oertain charges, publicly made and not
yet denied, that the Department of Cultural Relations of
Japan, with approval of tho Department of Education of
Hawail, had arranged for tle use in the Public Sohools of
se Territory of oertain text books covering information
concerming Japan, her hictory and objeots, prepared under
direction of the Japanese authorities in part; and also
that the intention has been announced of sending from
Japan for use in the Japanese language sohools of Hawaii
(wherein nearly 50,000 young Amerioan citizens of Japanese
ancestry are taught, largely by Buddhist aliens) "educa-
tional mmterial concerning the vital national defense
polioy of Japan.
"Donteu",

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.94)
-a
"Dentsu", a Japanese news agenoy, under date of
May Srd, and the Uaited Press, under date of May l5th
stated in telegraphed advices to the mainland that this peti-
tiom for investigation was quietly pgeon-holed oy the
Senate Eduoation Committee to which It had been referred
1n order te avoid the stirring up of unmecessary racial
centroversy and for the added reason that the Japanese
are the second strongest voting element in the Hawaiiam
Islamds. Wote also copy of letter from the Chairman of the
Education Committee of the Hawaiian Senate, May 18, 1935.
The enolosed oopy of reeolution assed by the Native
Sons of the Oolden West, Way 2?rd, and certain releases
1seued by th1s c0mm1ttee, Nos 407-8-9-10, 430-A, w1l1
edvise you of some of the details in connect on with the
matter. This office hes conies of all the doowments referred
to and would bo glad to furnish any further infor ation which
may be desired.
very truly yours,
V. . LHY,
Executive Secretary.
Enco.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
CALIFORNA JCINT IAIGRATION COMMITTER
85 Seconc Street
San Francisco. California.
Releaced
JAPANESE PROPAGANDA IN ANERICAN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Japan is adding to her alaborate and frank system of
propagande in the United 3tates a plan thru which pupils
in the high schools throughout this country are to use tert
books prepared in Japan and giving the Japanese point of
view on matters mational and international.
Protest was made to the Territorial School Commis-
siomers of Hawaii by the Sino-Korean Peonles League of
Honolulu, in a letter, December 11, 1934, against coum-
temanoing such a plan. In that leiter it is state that
the plan was aporoved at a Departmental Conference of the
Japanese Covermment at Tokyo, November 21, 1934; that
there were present thereat the Department heads cL'or For
•im Office, Education Departm nt, Oultural Bureau, Over-
seas Education Institution, Promotion of International
Cultural Relations Society, and Prince Fushimi. Ohief of
the Japanese Naval Supreme War Council, the founder of
Havaii's Prince Fushimi Soholarship Association, incorpora-
ted in 1924.
Setsueohi Aoki, General Secretary of the Promotion
of Inter ational Cuitural Society, said, "For several years
the sohool heads of Hawaii and America with the aid of
many more influential educators and missionaries made a
thorough survey of American text books for the Japanese
Society. The survey revealed that if proper propaganda
1s systematically carried out in the sohools the American
children will become strong friends of Japan."
Concerning tho proposed free distribution of Japanese
text books in our public sohools, Mr. Okada, the head of
the Cultural Bureau and former Consul General of Hawail,
stated 'that a 1 the necessary arrangements have been
made

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
made with the Pullic Instruot on, also mith the various
religieus and social leaders in Hawai1".
The plan inoludes aleo distribution among all the
Japamese language schools in Hawai1 and Americe of nu-
catiomal material concerning the vital national defemme
policy of Japan", and also the distribution free of
charge to the teachers of all public schools in Hawa11
of "reading material, portfolios containing Japanese
pictorials and other granhic meteriols for sohool room
use, ete."
The letter of the Sino-Korean Peoples League con-
cludes as follows: "Undoubtedly you are aware of the
significanee of such projects in Hawaii. e are very
deeply touched and concerned with the action of the
Public Instruction taking a hand aiding in spreading
Japanese propaganda ia Hawaii. We believe the result
w1ll o disastrous to Americanlzation of he Amerioan
citizene of Japanese ancestry. God knows they have
enough contact with the things of Japan and the Yamato
and Sushido Spirit in the ir homes and in the language
sohools. Why let the Japanese Government promote
8n
ism even in the public schools?"
Coafirmation of these statemente is found in a news
1tem published Decemver 3, 1934, in the "Jaoen Times
nd mail" of Tokyo, a newspaper maintained by the Jananese
Government for the pur ose of presenting to readers of
the nglish language the Japanese Government point of
vgo on current matters. The article is headed. "High
School Students in U. B. To Be Given Books With arreat
Information on Japan", and states: "The Sooiety of
International Cultural Relations at its meeting monday
afternoon decided on a olan to ve followed for the com-
pil tion of school toxt-bo ks to be used for diffusing
correct i formation on Janan. • • • . • Material of in-
struotion will cover almost every hase of modern Janan,
embraoing topics on the government, eoonomic and sooial
conditions, art, etc., whieh will be or sented in e way
that will a peai to the average hizh school student in
America.
Japan's "International Cultural ureau" 1s allowed
2.500,000 Yen in the Foreign Office udget for 1935, while
the reoently oreated "Society for International Cultural
Relations" is supported by liberal contributions from
Mitsui and Mitsubishi.
No 407 2-5-35

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
CALI ORN A JOIIT IMMIGRATION CONMITTEE
85 Becond street
San Francisco, California.
Released
JAPAN S PSYCHOLOGY AND ANERICAN INTERESTS
The Japanese peo le believe, their leaders includ-
ing the frank and forceful Matsuoka, proclai, and the ir
school children are taught that Japan, as te only nation
whose ruler 1s Heaven-descended, is destined to rule the
morld. That belief dict-tes tle policy an? acts of Japan
and of the Jananese.
That polioy received formal declaration at the
ceremonia naming of the new Heir to the Japanese throne
when the Court Scholar, r. Ichimura, quoted from the
ancie t classics this lan uage: "T e essence of ru ing
the peonle l1es in the enlighteni g of them. • * • •
If there ar persons not yet pro rly governed, it ie be-
cause they have not yet bene itter by the Imperir1 rule.
••• If those who have not yet received onlighten-
ment under the Imerial rule are ound they are to be
subjugated."
A knorledge of J panese psycholcgy in such matters
m-ken understandable the calm ruthleasness with which
Japan during the present century has defied protests and
ignored or violated agreements and treaties, and conquered
and anne: ed edjacent territory and beld it under commercial
or military contro! in furtherance of her varied int rests;
it will explein to some extent the air of placid superiority
vith which she suggests thst certain ects of other nations
displease her sensitive peo le and should cease -- for in-
stance the inercusable act of the United States in float-
ing its Navy on the Pecific Ccean, and our recently an-
nounced intention to construct the Nicaragua Canal, which
promnted Japen to refer a request to Nicaragua that she
be granted equal rights in construction and control of
such Canal; it will explain why Japan accepts compliance
with demands of this character as recognition of the posi-
tion

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
-a
tiom to which the Gods have assigned her and entertaine
correspomding contempt for the nations which, as she assumes,
thru weakmess or fear, comply with the demands; it will
explein the calm assurance with whioh she openly propagan-
dises im this country for accomplishment of her purposes
and asks and secures the aid of Amerioan oitizens and im-
terests in furtherance thereof.
It may even enable us to a preciate the humor in her
latest move - a well defined plan announced in the Japan
Times of Tokyo, English language spokesman for the Foreign
Office, Deeember 4, 1934, to introduce into our public
school ourriculum a system of text books to @ prepared in
Japan with friendly counsel from a representati  of the
Institute of Pacific Relat ons, anu designed to cover all
matters on whioh Ja an wishes this country to be "properly
informed".
In conneotion with that plan the General Secretary
of the Society for Inte rnational Cultural Relations re-
ported that a thorough survey mace for it y "the school
heads of Hawaii and America wit:. the aid of many more in-
fluential educators and missionaries * * * * • revealed
that if proer propagand is systewatically carried out
in the schools American chi dren il: become strong friends
of Japan." •
The Sino-Korean Peo .: League of Hawaii made, in
Decem br, a strong protest to the Territorial Comm ssioners
of Education against the introcuction of such text books.
declaring t at the result "will be disastrous to umericani-
sation of the American itizens of Japanese ancestry";
that "they have enough contact with the things of Japan
in their homes anc in the Japanese language schools, and
why promote Japanism in the publi sohools."
Imagine the reaction in Japan if the United 3tates
nmounced preparation oy it of te..t puks for use in
Japan's public schoois to "pronerly inform" Japanese pupils
on subjeots of concern to us!
 C.J.I.C. Release No. 407, which will be mailed on request
No. 408
2-8-35

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGRATION CONMITTEE
85 Seoond Street
Sam Francisco, California.
mlee2ed
•Copy of Item in Japan Times, Tokyo, Japan.
Decem ber 4, 1934.
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS IN U. S. TO B& GIVEN
BOOKS WITH CORRECT INFORMATIN ON JAPAN
The Sooiety of International Cultural Relations at
its mmeting Moday aftermon deoided on a plan to be
followed for the compilation of sohool text-bo ks to be
used at high schools in the United States for diffusing
correct informat lon on Japan.
According to the plan, the collecting and provisional
compilation of Material on Javan will be undertaken by a
commistee in this country, while final compilation will
be done by a joint committee inoluding both American
and Japanese members. It was also decided at the met-
ing to present the draft by the Japanese committee to
Mr. Lasker, chairman on the cultural relations of the
I.P.R.**
The "Japan Times and Mail" published at Tokyo under
direotion of the Foreign Orfice.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
-a
I. P. R.•• for his suggestions before sending it to the
joint Japamese-Amerioan committee for final compilation.
Material of instruotion on Japan will cover almost
every phase of modern Japan, embracing topics on the
govermment, economic and sooial conditions, art, eto.,
which will be presented in a way that will appeal to the
average high sohool student in America.
I. P. R. - The Institute of Pacific Relations, whose
mombers in recent biennial sessions - notably at Banff,
Canada, 1n 1933, were urged by the Japanese delegation
thereto to proselyte for immigration qpota for Japan.
For further information in regard to this subject see
C.J.I.C. Releases No. 407 - No. 408.
0.409
3-7-35

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGRATION COMMITTEE
85 Second Street
San Francisco, California.
peleeeed
JAPAN PROPOSES TO INSTRUCT OUR PUBLIC
SOHOOL STUDSNTS
The Japan Times and Mail, English language voioe of
the Foreign Office of Japan, in 1ts issue of December 4th
last, published an interesting item headed, "High School
Students 1n U. 8. To Be Given Books With Correct Informe-
tion on Japan". The article st tes that the Society of
International Oultural Relations has adopted a plan for
compilation of tert books for the purpose indicated, to be
prep red in Japan by a special committee with suggestions
from a representative of the Institute of Pacific Relations.
The books will cover, it is stated, "almost every phase of
modern Japan . . . . . in a way that will appeal to the
average high school student in America".
The Society of International Cultural Relations is
an organization supported by such powerful commercial in-
terests as Mitsui, Mitsubishi, eto. It acts under direo-
tion of the Government Bureau of Cultural Relations, which
has been allowed an appropriation of 2,500,000 Yen in the
1935 ludget. "Cultivating cultural relations", is
Japanese for "inviting foreign approval of Japan's point
of view". The Japanese delegates to the Imetitute of
Pacific Relations, at its recent b-ennial sessions - and
partioularly at that held at Benff, Canada, in 1933, as
shown by news reports -- sought to secure the cooperation
of American delegates thereto to obtain from the United
States an immigration quota for Japan.
USE OF THE BOOKS PROT T D IN HAWAII
Further information as to the text book plan is found
in a letter of protest addressed by the Sino-Korean Peoples
Loague

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
League of Honolulu to the Territorial Sohool Commis-
sioners of Masai1, December 1l, 1934. Therein 1t is
declared that the plan was a roved at a meeting of
departmental heads of the Japanese government, inoluding
the Foreign Office, at Tokyo, November 21, 1934. At that
meeting. Mr. Okada, head of the Bureau of Cultural Rela-
tions and former Consul Ganeral of Hawaii, is quoted as
saying concerming the proposed free distribution of
Japanese text books, that "all the necessary arrangements
have been made with the Public Instruotion and also with
the various religious and sooial leaders of Hawaii".
Setueohi Aoki, Generel Seoretary of the Society of
International Cultural Relations, is quoted as stating
that "for several years the school heads of Hawaii and
America, with the ald of many more influential eduoators
and missionaries, made a thorough survey of American text
books for the Japanese socisty. The survey revealed that
if proper propaganda is systematically carried out in the
schools the American children will beoome strong friends
of Janan".
The plan includes also distribution among all the
Japanese language schools in Hawaii and America of
"ducational material concerning the vital national defense
policy of Japan".
The letter of the Sino-Korean Peoples League protests
against suc! proposed use of the public schools "in spread-
ing Japanese propsganda in Hawaii" and declaree that "the
result will be disastrous to Americanisation of the
American citizens of Japanese ancestry".*
• Deta1ls 1n C.J.I.C. Releases Nos. 407-8-9
No. 410
2-13-35
Suggestion: Imagine the react on in Japan if the Uni ted
States were to publicly announce ite inten-
tion to 1ntroduoe into the public school system of Japan
Text books pepared under its direction furnishing "cor-
rect information" concerning the United States and its
policy and views.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGPATION COMMITTEE
85 econd street
San Francisoo, California.
Released
WILL HAWAII SU PRESS INVESTIGATION OF
JAPANESE PROPAGANDA IN PUBLIC SOHOOLS
Honolulu, Apr11 19, 1935
On Maroh 27, 1935, a petition was presented to the
Hawaiian Legislature by . k. Lyhan on behalf of the
Sino-Korean Peoples League, asking for investigetion of
harges as to Japanese propaganda activities in Hawaii,
inoluding the introduction into the public schools of text
books covering Japan and her place in the sun, prepared
under Japanese direction. The petition was referred to
the Committee on Educat on, where, according to news re-
ports sent to the mainland, it wiil probably be pigeon-
holed. On Decem ber 11, 1934, the same organisation filed
a protest against use of such school text books with the
Commission rs of Public Instruction of the Territory, but
it received no publicity.
Lyhan states that demand has been made upon him by
certain interests concerned in the text: book olan and by
others (fearful lest agitation of the subject should
prejudice Hawaii's chance for statehood) for withdrawal
of the petition made to the Legislature; and that he has
been threatened with deportation as an undesirable alien
if he continues his activities in connection therewith.
He
has refused to comply with these demands, declaring that
the charges are substantiated by dooumentary proof, that
citizens of Hawaii and of the mainland as well are con-
cerned with learning whether such chargee be true or
false, and that he is prepared to defend his action and
ht status as a legal resident of Hawali.
The following outline of the cas  is gathered from
statements, not yet contradicted, whict apreared in the
petition

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
petition to the Legislature; in the protest to the Commis-
stoners of Kducation, covering report of a meeting of
certain depertmental eads of Japan, held November 21, 1934;
in an 1tem published Deoember 4, 1934, in the Japan Times
and Mail. English language voice of Japan's Foreign Offioe;
in an official report of the Superintendent of Public In-
struction of Hawaii, Oren E. Long. February 20, 1935, and
in comment thereon by Lyhan 1n a letter of Maroh 5, 1935.*
The Dapartment of Oultural Relations, Janan's instru-
ment for foreign nronaganda, after careful survey and
encoura ement received from educational and ohuroh authori-
ties in the United States, decided that "if proper propa-
ganda is systematically carried out in the s ohools American
children will become stron: friends of Japan". Arrange-
meats were made for use of such text oooks i the Hawaiian
public sohools, and the initial volume is now ready for
printing in Honolulu. The material therefor was gathered
in Japan under the direction of Okada, head of the Bureau
of Cultural Relations, form rly Consul General at Hono-
lulu, and with assistance from Bruno Lesker of the Insti-
tute of Pacifio Relations. The book was compiled at
Honolulu by Dr. Nisamich1 Royama of the Imperial Univer-
sity pat Tokyo (who had three months leave for the purpose)
assisted by Miss Hele: Gay Pratt "of the Institute of
Faoific Relations and the Department of Public Instrue-
tion.
It is charged that the plen also provides specifically
for distribution in the Japanese language sohools of
Hawaii of educat'onel material ccncerning the vital
national defense policy of Japan". T ose language sohools
are a:tended by over 50,000 young Ja anese, nearly all
of them Amerioan citizene. The protest decl res that
use of suoh propaganda in the schools will nd to further
Jananization of Hawaii and "wil! t: disastrous to Ameri-
canization of American cit zens of Japanese descent".
No. 420-A
Covies of the se documente are in the office of the Cali-
fornia Joint Immigration Gommittee. • * • • • O.J.I.C.
Doos. Nos. 407--9-10 contain datails of the matter.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.95)
Lotter from Education Comm1tt e of Hawaiian Senate
0
0
P
Y
Honolulu, aay 18, 1935.
Mr. W. X. Lyhan,
Sino-Korean Peoples Laague of Hawaii,
1465 Fort St.,
Honolulu.
Dear Sir:
In respone to your inquiry of the 15th inst.
regarding the petition of the Sino-Korean Peoples League
presented to the Legislature on the 37t of Maroh, 1936,
and referred to the lucation Co mittee of the Senate. I
would say that the same was considered by the Committee.
no ction taken, and the petition at the close of the
Session was referred back to the Senate for filing.
ours very truly,
S1 H.WIICOX

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
N. S. G. . OPPOSS STATED FOR IAY AII
At Vallejo, California, May 33. 1935,
the Grand Parlor, Native Sons of the
Golden West, in annual convention,
passed unanimously the following reso-
lution.
WPEREAS, there is now end ing in Congress a resolu-
tion introduced at request of the Haiian Leglslature
to grant statohood to Hawaii,
WHER?As, a s1milar measure of the Hawailan Legisla-
ture was vetoed in l93l by Govern r Judd. with the declara-
tion th-t such a request shoule be postponed until time
had shown how the Asiatic majority would exercise its
control of the franchise.
WTREAs. two-thirds o the total population of the
Territory is Asiatic, the predominating element therein
being Jaoanese, and two-thirds of those Asiatics are
American citizens by birth and entitled t. vote s they
reach majority, while the entire Caucasian popul tion is
about one-tenth of the total,
WERAS. 60, 000 or more Pili inos now living in the
Territory, pl s s ch additional number as m e adwitted
thereto during the tnext ten year period under a special
provision of the Indevencence ct, plus all the alien
Japanese now livin in the Territory who ent red under
the Gentlemen's Agre ment (all suoh elements now barred
from the mainland) wo ld be fre to enter continental
United States if or wien statehood e granted to Hawail.
WEREAs. there is now efore the Hawaiian Legisla
ture a petitlon asking for investigation of charges, pub-
licly made and not yet denied, that the ureau of Cul-
tural Relations of Japan, with approval of the Department
of Toucation of lawaii, is now carrying into effect plans
for pro agandizing in the publi schoole through use
therein of text books on Ja an prepared under the ureau'
direction; ane for distribution to the 50,000 students
in the Japanese language schools (American citizens) "of
educational material concerning the vital national defense
policy of Japan"; therefore
RESOLVED.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
RESOLVED. by the Grand Parlor N.S. G.W. that the
Senatore and Representatives from California be urgently
requested to vigorously oppose  grant of statehood to
Hawail until such time as it may be shown that such grant
may be made with perfect safety t the seourity and in-
terests of the nation, and that the population of the
Territory may be relied upon for unswerving and undivided
allegiance to the Union and its standards.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
inareased to thres Indred thousand yen. Large contribee
tions from such interests at Mitsui and Mitsubishi probably
raise ite available funds to a figure in the neighborhood
of a million yen for this year.
A mmber of consideratiom ean be enmumerated as re-
sponsible for the establishing of the Sooiety for Inter-
nationel Cultural Relations: (1) the realisation that Japan
dees not enjoy a favorable press abroad, partioularly in
the United States) (2) the hope that dissemination of in-
formation concerning Japanese cultural subjects would lead
to a more sympathetic hearing of Japan's canse; (s) the de-
sirability of concentrating in one important body various
related efforts hitherto largely seattered and ineffeotives
(4) the wish of certain Japanese of liberal inclinations
to make an important contribution to the study of Japan by
foreign students by facilitating researeh in a manner whish
up to the present has been impossibles (5) the desire of the
same group to plase in competent and responsible hands that
part of the work of oultural relations with the Umited States
whieh has in the past besn promoted by a number of well-
meaming but unlettered Japanese enthusiasts; and (s) the
need for a contimuing cultural body in Japan to maintain a
somneotion with and thereby make of ourrent value the insti-
tutions which have grown up abroad as a rosult of previous
gifts (such as the Japanese library in New York).
The society maintains an office and library in the
business section of downtown Tokyo near the Tokyo station
(Marunouchi). The library was opened in Mareh, 19s5. The
chairman is Count Kabayama (Aisuke Kabayama, a graduate of
Amherst College, member of the House of Peers, and a liberal
who is well known to the Department). His most aotive
assistant is Baron Dan (Ino Dan, a younger man, lecturer
on Japanese art, son of Baron Takume Dan who as head of the
Mitsui interests was assassinated in 19s2). The society is
conduoting a series of lectures in Tokyo by eminent Japanese
aoholare

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
is also under the suspices of the society).
The activities of the International Society for Cultural
Relations should not, however, be understood as being only
of a popularising nature. Its promoters are firmly cone
vinced that assistanee to foreign researeh students (whose
conclusions of course can not be controlled) will bear fruit
im the permanent national interest. In the near future an
American soholar (Dr. John Henry Wigmore) is to be aided
in researeh in the law of the shogunate period, and Count
Kabayame has high hopes that there will be no lack of sesh
work later on. In fect, it is the plan of the new institu-
tion to keep its head above the flood of the necessities of
routine oultural conveniences for foreigners and to devote
important aid to a few larger undertakings in turn as they
may be possible. It hopes to pay the cost of publishing
studies which would otherwise be impossible.
This organisation does not represent all the extra-
official activities promoted by the Foreign Orriee for the
good name of Japan abroad. The Foreign Ofrise contimues to
lend financial assistance to such purposes as the Japanese
Davis oup tennis team and motion picture news reels de-
picting Japanese subjects. In fact, the Embassy is informed
that the allotment for such purposes in the present fiseal
year is more than double the amount set aside for the Inter-
national Seciety for Cultural Relations. Nevertheless, the
Soviety represents an important effort to bring under uniried,
immlligent direction a considerable number of activities worthy
of future development.
The foundation is of course flooded with requests for
aid, the great majority of which are refused. In those par-
ticular instances which are found acceptable, support is
lavish. The special objeot 1s to promote a very few under-
takings at a time, in a manner more thorough and consequential
than would otherwise be possible.
As time goes on it is possible that scholars and in-
stitutions in the United States may be able to take more and
more advantage of the opportunities offered by this organisa-
tion. It is under soholarly dirootion of a notably liberal
tingo.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
tinge. Qualified American soholars might well exploit the
opportunity to pursue research in many Japanese rieds which
have hitherto invited by their interest and discoureged by
their inacoessibility. Reasonable requests for mources of
information and material for research could scarcely be re-
fussd. A disoreet cholce of subjects should make it possible
to capitalize the obviously liberal inolinations of the
society's manegoment without running afoul of the institu-
tion's purse strings.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.96)
-196-
Reference Lists for Teuchers
Chapter 1
(This list and, sucoceding onos, are not comprchunsive bibiiographics
but are selucted minimum lists. For n clussifiud longer refurence
list, see A Short Bibliography on Janan, published by The Kokusui
Bunka Shinkokui (The Soolety for International Culturul clutions),
Meiji-Seimei-kan, Murunouchi, Tokyo, 1934)
Some muterinl on the guography of Jupan is includud in muny of the cun rul
referunocs. Thost ure selccted:
Nitobe, Inaso, Japan, Ernost Donn, London, 1931: pp. 15-47.
Moulton, Hurold G., Jupan, The Brookingu Institution, lushin:ton, D. C., 1931:
pp. 22-30.
The Japan Year Book, 1933, The Foroign Affairs ssociution of Jupan: pr. 30-52.
Crapter 2
Sansom, G. B., Japan, A Short Cultural History, Th. Cuntury Coapany, New York, 1931:
pp. 3-265. The most usuful single refuronce covering develorments to the Meiji
period.
Clement, Ernest Yilson, A Short History of Japan (ruvisel edition), Kyo Bun Kwan,
Tokyo, 1926: pp. 1-39. A simple short history, particularly userul s  guide in
d aling with the unfamiliar facts of Japanesu history.
Short
Aston, . G., A/History of Japanese Literature, D. Appluton-Century Co., New York,
1933 editien: pp. 17-67, 92-117. Tho standard work on Janan s literuturc, it
contains interusting selcctions from the literuture of curly puriods particul rly,
and will be found useful especielly when access to the works thenselves is
impossible.
inesaki, Masaharu, Art, Life, and Muture in Jepan, Marshall Jonos Co., Boston, lo3::
p. 1-28, 51-32. A ideulistic und poetic intorprotation.
Binyon, Laurence, Fainting in tho Far Bast, Edward Arnold, London, 1908. Cert in
chapturs deal with the painting of the ptriods under considuration.
Trunslations of Japanese Liturature of the periods
Isobe, Yaichiro, The Story of ncient Jupan, Son Kaku Shu, Tokyo, 1.
simple and briof presentation of portions of the Kojiki.
Tietjens, Eunice, Poetry of the Orient, Alfred A. Knopf, New Yr. 8.
Contains a section on Japanoso poetry, beginning with the Manyos.
Waley, Arthur, (translator). The Tale of Gonji, Houghton Mifrlin, ston.
Six volumes of this havo uppenred, cach with a different title, but il a
purt of tho Gonji Monogatari.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.93)
-197-
Waley, Lrther, The Pillow-Book of Sei Seemagen,
Houghton Mirflin, Beston,
1929.
Kobayashi, Nobuko (translator), The Sketeh Book of the Lady Sei Shonagon,
E. P. Dutton, New York, 19so.
Chapter 3
Sunsom, C. B., Japan, A Short Cultural History, Tho Contury Co., Now York, 1931:
Pr. 266-516.
Clomont, Ernest Wilson, A Short History of Japan, (rovisod odition) Xyo Bun Dman,
Toky0, 1926: pp. 40-108.
Short
.ston, W. O.,  History of Japanose Litcraturo, D. ppluton-Contury Co., Now York,
1933 0d1t1on: rP. 131-166, 169-183, 197-214.
Anusaki, Mnsaharu, Art, Lifo, and Maturo in Japan, Mr.rshull Jonos Co., Bocton, 19ss:
rr. 99-168.
rmstrong. Robcrt Cornell, Light from the East, Univorsity of Toronto, l9l4.
ontains many trarslations Trom tho writings of tho sovontcenth and eighteenth
-hilosophers.
Kinoaid, Zoe, Kabuki. Tho ioomillan Co., Yow York and London, 1926. Fxtromoly
intcresting descriptions of tho Kabuki staco. Contains vory fino illustrations.
Diok, Stcward, ts nd crarts of old Japan, A. C. oclurp, Chicago, 1909.
Binyon, Lauronct, Fainting in the Fur Bost, Edward arnold, London, 1908.
ranslutions fron the litorature of tho purioc
Waloy, sthur, Tho No Plnya of Japan, 1frud i. Knopf, Nuw York, 1922.
Sadlur, . L., The Tun Foot-Syunre Hut nd Talus of the Huike, Angus and
ob rs, 1.t. Scy. 1928.
Pacc,  urtis Hiddun, Jaranuso Poctry, Houghton Mirflin, Boston, 1923.
 inwri ht, Approciution of Nuturo in Jn-anosu Po try, Transnctions of he
Asictic Socluty of Japan, Socond Sorics, Vol.Il. This ussey contoius 
numbor of trnalations of Janancso pootry.
Hi-kurt, ax, Issa's Life and Poctry, Transactins of th: nriutic Sociuty
of Jn; an.  cond Jor1os, Vo1.X.
Ikku Ji  sha. Hi akirico, Chroniolo Prusn. Kobe, 1929.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.86)
. e ,TrA
.L.i.r1. T4. Tranolut1s  tho im ortunt owont
o
12. wi, Anu uning Jn:n, Thu Viking "ross, No York, 1932. A colloction of
tors. solcotioun Tron uries, un! from various uddrossos, wion sive Dr. i olz
 nlir inpresciono fron the timo io wont to Japan in la7o to th time of his
ertu om rty-fiu your lnter.
igley, Harol! .. J.nnusu Govornant and Politica, The Contur, C... Now York,
192. A d:ile! ucrouit of those atturs, Trow th ti of the oii outoretion
on.
zaki, Ykio, Tho Voico o1 Ja anuso Dumocraoy, Kully un, Mals, I.td., Yokohamm, 1918.
ir. zuki's i lan for rosponcible party pomrmmant.
Irchard, John E., jonun'. Sconomio Position, MoGraw-Hill Book Co., Now York, 1930.
A letail.d nalysia.
Hitoby, Inaso, "nd Othera, iostorn Influunoos in Hodorn Japen, Tho University of
(hicup) Pros., Chicago, l931: pp. 25-bb. A symrosiua on the changos in modern
Japan.
"onnody, y. D., The Changing Pabrio of Japan, Constable and Co., London, 19s0:
r. 1o0-203. Doale with Japan aftur the World War, but, in thu caso of suoh matter:
s the Pruss, goes beck to oarlier periode for tho buokgrond of the present-day
cvolopmont.
Allen, G. C., Modern Jcpan and Its Probloms, 3. ?. Dutton and Co., New York, 1928:
rp. 55-78, 98-118.
Taurumi, Yusuke, Presnt Lay Japan, Columbia Uaiversity Press, New York, 1926:
pp. 58-94. Contalus tmo Tootures on modetm literaturo.
Translations of litoraturo of the period
Tokutomi, Kenjiro, Namiko, tramslated by Sakme Shioya and B. P. Bdgect,
The Seibundo, Tokyo, 1906.
O:akd, Koyo, The G0ta pe
tramalated ty A. mand M. Lloyd, The Soibande,
rokyo.
Putabatai,
Sinelatr,

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.89)
-199-
Notaimn, Bo chun, tr.naluted by leaiar) irr.
110.Toky.11
Biok rt m. ". ., Two Storice by Ioniyo, e Trunscti ms of 
So01uty of Jajan, Suoond Serlos, Vo1.V11, L. 0. 1.3): . 12.)-137.
Chartur 5
n,. Hor un. Jan Undor Taisho Tunno, Goorru llon ni Unwin, Ltd., 1..
:1. ur and Jctuil. uocount or Inturnal politics and foroin rulrtions, 1912-13. C.
Jrchard. Joln !., Ja-un' 'conomic Position, McGrow-Hill Iok Co., Now Y rk, I)30.
Jijan Yuur book, foruign asfairo mogociation of Ja an. Tho curront your bo k iv.s
Invaluable data und figuros on all matturs of int rust. Thu l93s odition in
sreoially well orgunizd, und ontains 45 om pturs. Statistios sh uld be tuku.
from the lutost y. ur book; tn 194 dition ai  il1 bo vu(1: blo soo:.
Moulton, Harold C., Janar, Thu Brooking Inctit nim,  sinin ton, D. C., 193l. An
coonomio ani finnnciu ariraisel.
Industrinl Labour in Juran, Sorius A. (Inlustri.1 kul tions) No. 37, Ounuva, 1933.
Published In the United Kingdom for the Intornationul Labour officu (Loague of
ntions) by P. S. King :nd Son, Iondon: distribut d in tho Unitud Statos by the
World Poace Foundatior, Bostai. Historical study un: analysio of o mtomrorary
industrial labor in Japan, comrilrd for th Lagur of Mtions.
Kenmedy, M. D., Tho Changing Fabrio of Japan, Const: blu and Co., London, 19s0.
Prcsents e vivid ioturn or dirrorent aspects of Japcnose social onen,u sinco 1923.
Crookor, W. R., The Japaneso Population Problom, Th: Maonillnn Co., Nun York, 1?31.
Punrose, E. F., Population Theories and Thsir Application, Food Kusearoh Instituto,
Stanford Universfty, Calirornla, 1984.
Blakeslee, George H., Confliots of Polioy in the Far East, Foroign Polioy ssocia-
tion, Wew York, and Norld Poaoc Foundution, Jostou, Iust. Cloar and brief presunta-
tion of the Manohurian problom in rartioular.
Bisson, T. Lo, The Rise of Itsoism in Japan, Foruign Polioy ssooiation, New York,
vol.viIn, No.it.
Osaki, Yukio, Japan at the Cross-roads, P. S. King, Landon, l9ss. Mr. Osaki titlco
his pemphlet, "In Outspoken Waraing to the Peoplu of the World."
Tramelatione of literature of the period
Kobayashi, Takiji, The Cannery Boat, The Dabernatiomal Pabliakers, Now York,
1088.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.91)
5
/EF37(350628)ENTOFSTAT
att.
Q
WASHINGTON
Juterin
550
Dept.
June 1935
Pirrein of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Sir:
1930
Ju1s
5112.
The enclosure, a letter from Mr. V. S. McClatohy, Exec-
utive Secretary of the California Joint Immigration Committee,
394.20211A/6
to the Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Hon. Henry L. Roose-
velt, and a report of Japanese propaganda in American schools,
is forwarded for your information.
According to the Los Angeies "Examiner", 6 June 1935,
Miss Helen Gay Pratt, of the Department of Public Instruction
of Hawaii, is in New York at the invitation of a unit of
Teachers College; conferring with members of the faculty of
Columbia University, relative to a project to have Japanese
professors of the Imperial University of Tokio compile text
books for American public schools.
Respectfully,
MHandl
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
Vavy.
10
F/FG

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.90)
21231
m
141=LL
THE WHITE HOUSE
Washington
June 18, 1935
MEMORANDUM FOR SECRETARY ROOSEVELT:
I am returning herewith the McClatchy corres-
15
3
pondence. The President asked me to suggest to you that
口
you show this to the State Department.
/s/ M. H. McINTYRE
Assistant Secretary
to the President.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
Office of the Assistant Secretary
Washington
10 June 1935
Memorandum for Colonel McIntyre:
Suject: Japanese propaganda in American schools.
The attached letter from the Executive Secretary of the
California Joint Immigration Committee, with which is enclosed
certain information concerning propaganda in the Territory of
Hawaii, is forwarded to you as being of pertinent interest at
this time.
H. L. R.
(encls)

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
1sk
Charles M.Goethe
berican Legion
Pres.Immigration Study Com'n
rman)
(Treasurer)
Paul Scharrenberg
Hon. U.S. Webb
e.,Treas. State Fed. of Labor
State Attorney General
John T. Regan
V. S. McClatchy
Grand Sec'y. Native Sons
(Executive Secretary)
of the Golden West
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGRATION COMMITTEE
85 Second Street
Phone GArfield 2697
San Francisco, Cal.
May 3, 1935.
Hon. Henry L. Roosevelt,
Assistant Secretary of the Navy,
Washington, D. C.
For Mr. Roosevelt's Personal Attention.
My dear Sir:
In the San Francisco Examiner, May 2nd, 1935, in an article written by
you, is found the folloving paragraph:
"For example, look into the schools in politics. They are vital. It is
in the schools and colleges that we prepere the citizen of tomorrow for his task;
and it is these young people who must receive and transmit the ideals which we would
have survive. And I conclude, reluctantly, that Americanism is not taught in our
schools to the extent that it should be taught."
You will be interested undoubtedly, therefore, in the following state-
ment of facts; there was presented to the Hawaiian Legislature on March 27th, a re-
quest for investigation of certain cherges, publicly mede and not yet denied, that
the Department of Cultural Relations of Japan, with approval of the Department of
Education of Hawaii, had arrenged for the use in the Public Schools of the Territory
of certain text books covering information concerning Japan, her history and objects,
prepared under direction of the Japancse authorities in part; and also that the inten-
tion has been announced of sending from Japan for use in the Japanese language
schools of Hawaii (wherein nearly 50,000 young Americen citizens of Japanese ances-
try ere taught, largely by Buddhist aliens) "educational material concerning the
vital national defense policy of Japen."
"Dentsu", a Japanese news agency, under date of May 3rd, and the United
Press, under date of May 15th, stated in telegraphed advices to the mainland that
this petition for investigation was quietly pigeonholed by the Senate Education
Committee to which it had been referred in order to avoid the stirring up of un-
necessary racial controversy and for the added reason that the Japanese are the
second strongest voting element in the Hawaiian Islands. Note also copy of letter
from the Chairman of the Education Committee of the Hawaiian Senate, May 18, 1935.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
The enclosed copy of resolution passed by the Native Sons of the
Golden West, May 23rd, and certain releases issued by this committee, #407-8-9-10,
420-A, will advise you of some of the details in connection with the matter. This
office has copies of all the documents referred to and would be glad to furnish
any further information which may be desired.
Very truly yours,
/s/ V. S. McClatchy, Exec. Secy.
VSM.DK
Encs.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 1.00)
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGRATION COMMITTEE
85 Second Street
Phone GArfield 2697
San Francisco, Cal.
Released
JAPANESE PROPAGANDA IN AMERICAN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Japan is adding to her elaborate and frank system of propaganda in the
United States a plan thru which pupils in the high schools throughout this country
are to use text books prepared in Japan and giving the Japanese point of view on
matters national and international.
Protest was made to the Territorial School Commissioners of Hawaii by
the Sino-Korean Peoples League of Honolulu, in a letter, December 1l, 1934, against
countenancing such a plan. In that letter it is stated that the plan was approved
at a Departmental Conference of the Japanese Government at Tokyo, November 21, 1934;
that there were present thereat the Department heads for Foreign Office, Education
Department, Cultural Bureau, Overseas Education Institution, Promotion of Interna-
tional Cultural Relations Society, and Prince Fushimi, Chief of the Japanese Naval
Supreme War Council, the founder of Hawaii's Prince Fushimi Scholarship Association,
incorporated in 1924.
Setsuechi Aoki, General Secretary of the Promotion of International Cul-
tural Society, said, "For several years the school heads of Hawaii and America with
the aid of many more influential educators and missionaries made a thorough survey
of American text books for the Japanese Society. The survey revealed that if proper
propaganda is systematically carried out in the schools the American children will
become strong friends of Japan."
Concerning the proposed free distribution of Japanese text books in our
public schools, Mr. Okada, the head of the Cultural Bureau and former Consul General
of Hawaii, stated "that all the necessary arrangements have been made with the Public
Instruction, also with the various religious and social leaders in Hawaii."
The plan includes also distribution among all the Japanese language schools
in Hawaii and America of reducational material concerning the vital national defense
policy of Japan", and also the distribution free of charge to the teachers of all
public schools in Hawaii of "reeding material, portfolios containing Japanese pic-
torials and other graphic materials for school room use, etc."
The letter of the Sino-Korean Peoples League concludes as follows:
"Undoubtedly you are aware of the significance of such projects in Hawaii. We are
very deeply touched and concerned with the action of the Public Instruction taking
a hand aiding in spreading Japanese propaganda in Hawaii. We believe the result will
be disastrous to Americanization of the American citizens of Japanese ancestry. God
knows they have enough contact with the things of Japan and the Yamato and Bushido
Spirit in their homes and in the language schools. Why let the Japanese Government
promote Japanism even in the public schools?"
Confirmation of these statements is found in a news item published Decem-
ber 3, 1934, in the "JapanTimes and Mail" of Tokyo, a newspaper maintained by the
Japanese Government for the purpose of presenting to readers of the English language
the Japanese Government point of view on current matters. The article is headed,
"High School Students in U. S. To Be Given Books With Correct Information on Japan",
and states: "The Society of International Cultural Relations at its meeting Monday
afternoon decided on a plan to be followed for the compilation of school text-books
to be used for diffusing correct information on Japan * * * * Material of instruction

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANESE PROPAGANDA IN AMERICAN PUBLIC SCHOOLS (ConT'd).
will cover almost every phase of modern Japan, embracing topics on the government,
economic and social conditions, art, etc., which will be presented in a way that
will appeal to the average high school student in America."
Japan's "International Cultural Bureau" is allowed 2,500,000 Yen in the
Foreign Office Budget for 1935, while the recently created "Society for Interna-
tional Cultural Relations" is supported by liberal contributions from Mitsui and
Mitsubishi.
#407 2-5-35

=== Page 81 === (confidence 1.00)
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIRATION COMMITTEE
85 Second Street - Phone GArfield 2697
San Francisco, Cal.
JAPAN'S PSYCHOLOGY AND AMERICAN INTERESTS
The Japanese people believe, their leaders including the frank and force-
ful Matsuoka, proclaim, and their school children are taught that Japan, as the only
nation whose ruler is Heaven-descended, is destined to rule the world. That belief
dictates the policy and acts of Japan and of the Japanese.
That policy received formal declaration at the ceremonial naming of the
new Heir to the Japanese throne when the Court Scholar, Dr. Ichimura, quoted from the
ancient classics this language: "The essence of ruling the people lies in the enlight-
ening of them. * * * If there are persons not yet properly governed, it is because
they have not yet benefitted by the Imperial rule. * * * If those who have not yet re-
ceived enlightenment under the Imperial rule are found they are to be subjugated."
A knowledge of Japanese psychology in such matters makes understandable the
calm ruthlessness with which Japan during the present century has defied protests and
ignored or violated agreements and treaties, and conquered and annexed adjacent terri-
tory and held it under commercial or military control in furtherance of her varied
interests; it will explain to some extent the air of placid superiority with which she
suggests that certain acts of other nations displease her sensitive people and should
cease--for instance the inexcusable act of the United States in floating its Navy on
the Pacific Ocean, and our recently announced intention to construct the Nicaragua
Canal,which prompted Japan to prefer a request to Nicaragua that she be granted
equal rights in construction and control of such Canal; it will explain why Japan
accepts compliance with demands of this character as recognition of the position to
which the Gods have assigned her and entertains corresponding contempt for the nations
which, as she assumes, thru weakness or fear, comply with the demands; it will explain
the calm assurance with which she openly propagandizes in this country for accomplish-
ment of her purposes and asks and secures the aid of American citizens and interests
in furtherance thereof.
It may even enable us to appreciate the humor in her latest move--a well de-
fined plan announced in the Japan Times of Tokyo, English langauge spokesman for
the Foreign Office, December 4, 1934, to introduce into our public school curriculum
a system of text books to be prepared in Japan with friendly counsel from a represen-
tative of the Institute of Pacific Relations, and designed to cover all matters on
Which Japan wishes this country to be "properly informed."
In connection with that plan the General Secretary of the Society for Inter-
national Cultural Relations reported that a thorough survey made for it by "the school
heads of Hawaii and America with the aid of many more influential educators and mis-
sionaries * * * revealed that if proper propaganda is systematically carried out in
the schools American children will become strong friends of Japan."*
The Sino-Korean Peoples League of Hawaii made, in December, a strong protest
to the Territorial Commissioners of Education against the introduction of such text
books, declaring that the result "will be disastrous to Americanization of the American
citizens of Japanese ancestry"; that "they have enough contact with the things of Japan
in their homes and in the Japanese language schools, and vhy promote Japanism in the
public schools."
Imagine the reaction in Japan if the United States announced preparation
by it of text books for use in Japan's public schools to "properly inform" Japanese
pupils on subjects of concern to us!
* C.J.I.C. Release #407, which will be meiled on request.
#408
2-6-35

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGRATION COMMITTEE
85 Second Street - Phone GArfield 2697
San Francisco, Calif.
py of Item in Japan Times, Tokyo, Japan.
December 4, 1934.
HIGH SCHDOL STUDENTS IN U.S. TO BE GIVEN
BOOKS WITH CORRECT INFORMATION ON JAPAN.
The Society of International Cultural Relations at its meeting Monday after-
noon decided on a plan to be followed for the compilation of school textbooks
to be used at high schools in the United States for diffusing correct information
on Japan.
According to the plan, the collecting and provisional compilation of Material
on Japan will be undertaken by a committee in this country, while final compilation
will be done by a joint committee including both American and Japanese members.
It was also decided at the meeting to present the draft by the Japanese committee
to Mr. Lasker, chairman on the cultural relations of the I.P.R. ** for his sug-
gestions before sending it to the joint Japanese-Anericen committee for final
compilation.
Material of instruction on Japan will cover almost every phase of modern
Japan, embracing topics on the government, economic and social conditions, art,
etc., which will be presented in a way that will appeal to the average high
school student in America.
* The "Japan Times and Mail" published at Tokyo under direction of the Foreign
Office.
* I.P.R. - The Institute of Pacific Relations, whose members in recent bi-
ennial sessions - notebly at Banff, Canada, in 1933, were urged by the
Japanese delegation thereto to proselyte for immigration quota for Japan.
For further information in regard to this subject see C.J.I.C. Releases #407 - #408.
#409 2-7-35

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGRATION COMMITTEE
85 Second Street - Phone GArfield 2697
San Francisco, Cal.
sed
JAPAN PROPOSES TO INSTRUCT OUR PUBLIC SCHOOL STUDENTS
The Japan Times and Mail, English language voice of the Foreign Office of Japan,
in its issue of December 4th last, published an interesting item headed, "High School
Students In U. S. To Be Given Books With Correct Information on Japan." The article
states that the Society of International Cultural Relations has adopted a plan for
compilation of text books for the purpose indicated, to be prepared in Japan by a
special committee with suggestions from a representative of the Institute of Pacific
Relations. The books will cover, it is stated, "almost every phase of modern Japan
. . . in a way that will appeal to the average high school student in America."
The Society of International Cultural Relations is an organization supported by
such powerful commercial interests as Mitsui, Mitsubishi, etc. It acts under direc-
tion of the Government Bureau of Cultural Relations, which has been allowed an appro-
priation of 2,500,000 Yen in the 1935 budget. "Cultivating cultural relations", is
Japanese for "inviting foreign approval of Japan's point of view". The Japanese dele-
gates to the Institute of Pacific Relations, at its recent bi-ennial sessions--and
particularly at that held at Banff, Canada, in 1933, as shown by news reports--sought
to secure the cooperation of American delegates thereto to obtain from the United
States an immigration quota for Japan.
USE OF THE BOOKS PROTESTED IN HAWAII
Further information as to the text book plan is found in & letter of protest
addressed by the Sino-Korean Peoples League of Honolulu to the Territorial School Com-
missioners of Hawaii, December 11, 1934. Therein it is declared that the plan was
approved at a meeting of departmental heads of the Japanese government, including the
Foreign Office, at Tokyo, November 21, 1934. At that meeting, Mr. Okada, head of the
Bureau of Cultural Relations and former Consul General of Hawaii, is quoted as saying,
concerning the proposed free distritution of Japanese text books, that "all the neces-
sary arrangements have been made with the Public Instruction end also with the various
religious and social leaders of Hawaii."
Setuechi Aoki, General Secretary of the Society of International Cultural Rela-
tions, is quoted as stating that "for several years the school heads of Hawaii and
America, with the aid of many more influential educators and missionaries, made a
thorough survey of American text books for the Japanese society. The survey revealed
that if proper propaganda is systematicslly carried out in the schools the American
children will become strong friends of Japan."
The plan includes also distribution among all the Japanese language schools in
Hawaii and America of "educational material concerning the vital nationel defense
policy of Japan".
The letter of the Sino-Korean Peoples League protests against such proposed use
of the public schools "in spreading Japanese propaganda in Hawaii" and declares that
"the result will be disastrous to Americanization of the American citizens of Japanese
ancestry".
* Details in C.J.I.C. Releases #407-8-9.
#4102-13-35
Suggestion: Imagine the reaction in Japan if the United States were to publicly
announce its intention to introduce into the public school system of
Japan text books prepared under its direction furnishing "correct information" con-
cerning the United States and its policy and views.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGRATION COMMITTEE
85 Second Street - GArfield 2697
San Francisco, Calif.
WILL HAWAII SUPPRESS INVESTIGATION OF
JAPANESE PROPAGANDA IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Honolulu, April 19, 1935.
On March 27, 1935, a petition was presented to the Hawaiian Legislature by W.K.
Lyhan on behalf of the Sino-Korean Peoples League, asking for investigation of charges
as to Japanese propaganda activities in Hawaii, including the introduction into the
public schools of text books covering Japan and her place in the sun, prepared under
Japanese direction. The petition was referred to the Committee on Education, where,
according to news reports sent to the mainland, it will probably be pigeonholed. On
December 1l, 1934, the same organization filed a protest against use of such school
text books with the Commissioners of Public Instruction of the Territory, but it re-
ceived no publicity.
Lyhan states that demand has been made upon him by certain interests concerned in
the text book plan and by others (fearful lest agitation of the subject should preju-
dice Hawaii's chance for statehood) for withdrawal of the petition made to the Legis-
lature; and that he has been threatened with deportation as an undesirable alien if he
continues his activities in connection therewith. He has refused to comply with these
demands, declaring that the charges are substantiated by documentary proof, that cit-
izens of Hawaii and of the mainland as well are concerned with learning whether such
charges be true or false, and that he is prepared to defend his action and his status
as a legal resident of Havaii.
The following outline of the case is gathered from statements, not yet contradic-
ted, which appeared in the petition to the Legislature; in the protest to the Commis-
sioners of Education, covering report of a meeting of certain departmental heads of
Japan, held November 21, 1934; in an item published December 4, 1934, in the Japan
Times and Mail, English language voice of Japan's Foreign Office; in an official re-
port of the Superintendent of Public Instruction of Hawaii, Oren E. Long, February 20,
1935, and in comment thereon by Lyhan in a letter of March 5, l935.*
The Department of Cultural Relations, Japan's instmment for foreign propaganda,
after careful survey and encouragement received from educational and church authori-
ties in the United States, decided thet "if proper propaganda is systematically car-
ried out in the schools American children will become strong friends of Japan."
Arrangements were made for use of such text books in the Hawaiian public schools, and
the initial volume is now ready for printing in Honolulu. The material therefor was
gathered in Japan under the direction of Okada, head of the Bureau of Cultural Rela-
tions, formerly Consul General at Honolulu, and with assistance from Bruno Lasker of
the Institute of Pacific Relations.The book vas compiled at Honolulu by Dr. Nisamichi
Royama of the Imperial University at Tokyo (who had three months leave for the purpose)
assisted by Miss Helen Gay Pratt "of the Institute of Pacific Relations and the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction".
It is charged that the plan also provides specifically for distribution in the
Japanese language schools of Hawaii of "educational material concerning the vital
national defense policy of Japan". Those language schools are attended by over 50,000
young Japanese, nearly all of them American citizens. The protest declared that use
of such propaganda in the schools will tend to further Japanization of Hawaii and
"will be disastrous to Americanization of American citizens of Japanese descent".
#420-A
* Copies of these documents are in the office of the California Joint Immigration
Committee. * * * * C.J.I.C. Docs. #407-8-9-10 contain details of the matter.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
Letter from Education Committee of Hawaiian Senate
C
0
P
Y
Honolulu, May 18, 1935.
Mr. W. K. Lyhan,
Sino-Korean Peoples League of Hawaii,
1465 Fort St.,
Honolulu.
Dear Sir:
In respon:e to your in quiry of the 15th inst. regarding
the petition of the Sino-Korean Peoples Lenue presented to the
Legislature on the 27th of March, 1935, and referred to the Educa-
tion Committee of the Senate, 1 would say that the same was con-
sidered by the Committee, no action taken, and the petition at the
close of the Session was referred back to the Senate for filing.
Yours very truly
s/d Flsie H. Vilcox.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
N. S. G. V. OPPOSES STATEHOOD FOR HAWAII
At Vallejo, California, May 23, 1935, the Grand Parlor,
Native Sons of the Golden West, in annual convention,
passed unanimously the following rsolution.
WHEREAS, there is now pending in Congress a resolution introduced
at request of the Hawaiian Legislature to grant statehood to Hawaii,
WHEREAS, a similar measure of the Hawniian Legislature was vetoed
in 193l by Governor Judd, with the declaration that such a request should be
postponed until time had shown how the Asiatic majority would exercise its con-
trol of the franchise,
WHEREAS, two-thirds of the total population of the Territory is
Asiatic, the predominating element therein being Japanese, and two-thirds of
those Asiatics are American citizens by birth and entitled to vote as they
reach majority, while the entire Caucasian population is about one-tenth of
the total,
WHEREAS, 60,O00 or more Filipinos now living in the Territory,
plus such additional number as may be aimitted thereto during the next ten
year period under a special provision of the Independence Act, plus all the
alien Japanese now living in the Territory who entered under the Gentlemen's
Agreement (all such elements now barred from the mainland) would be free to
enter continental United States if or when statehood be granted to Hawaii,
WHEREAS, there is now before the Hawaiian Legislature & petition
asking for investigation of charges, publicly made and not yet denied, that the
Bureau of Cultural Relations of Japan, vith aporoval of the Department of Educa-
tion of Hawaii, is now carrying into effect plans for prop&pandizing in the
public schools through use therein of text books on Japan prepared under the
Bureau's direction; and for distribution to the 50,000 students in the Japanese
language schools (American citizens) "of educational material concerning the
vital national defense policy of Japan"; therefore
RESOLVED, by the Grand Parlor N.S.G.. that the Senators and
Representatives from Celifornia be urgently rejuested to vigorously oppose a
grant of statehood to Hawaii until such time as it may be shown that such
grant may be made with perfect safety to the security and interests of the
nation, and that the population of the Territory mey be relied upon for un-
swerving and undivided allegiance to the Union and its standards.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.89)
July 11 1938
y dear No. Sesvetary!
the reseipt is aeknowledged, with thanks, of the
Asting Seeretary's letter of June 28, 1955 [A8-2/sr87
894.20211A/
(85062s)], enelesing a letter, with enelosures, from
Mr. V. S. Meolatehy, Exesutive Seeretary of the Californía
Joint Immigratien Committee, in regard to a report of Japa-
nese propaganda in American sohools.
This Department has requested the Department of the
9
Interior to investigate this matter, and upon receipt of
a reply, will expest to eommmmicate with you again.
Sinserely yours,
Cordell Hull
A true copy of
The Hemorable
the signed onget-
nal.
Olaude A. Swanson,
a0
Beeretary of the Navy.
S
Routtlne
WTT
L02..1N.
NSe
PE:WTT/DLY
7-5-35
E
JUL'8 1985

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.92)
THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
WASHINGTON
PERSONAL
THE UNDER SECRETARY
pl
JUN 22 1935
21 June 1935
DERALME L
Division o
FAR EASTERN AFFAHS
11 1935
Honorable William Phillips
JUL 8 15
Under Secretary of State
State Department
repartmabl of Statr
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
894.20211A/7
I send you herewith certain correspondence regarding
propaganda in the Territory of Hawail.
It has been suggested that this might oe of interest
to your office.
Sincerely yours
A.l fooswch
894.20211A
H. L. Roosevelt.
JUL17 1935
(encls)
CATLA
F/FG

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.94)
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
June 18, 1935
MEMORANDUM FOR SECRETARY ROOSEVELT:
I am returning herewith the McClatchy
correspondence. The President asked me to suggest
to you that you show this to the State Department.
21.m
MJ H. MCINHYR
Assistant Secretary
to the President

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
10 June 1935
Memorandum for Colonel McIntyre:
Subject: Japanese propagunda in American schools.
The attached letter from the xecutive Secretary of the California
Joint Immigration Committee, with which is enclosed certain information
concerning propaganda in the Territory of Hawaii, is forwarded to you
as being of pertinent interest at this time.
H. L. R.
(encls)

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
CHARLES M. GOETHE
GRATION BTUDY COM'N
California Joint Immigration Committee
85 SECOND STREET
HON. U. S. WEBB
LABOR
Phonz GArpild 2697
ATTORNEY GENERAL
San Francisco, Cal.
YMCLATCH
May 3, 1935.
June
RECLUVED
Hon.Henry L. Roosevelt,
Assistant Seoretary of the Navy,
Washington, D. C.
For Mr. Roosevelt's Personal Attention.
8
My dear Sir:
In the San Francisoo Examiner, May 22nd, 1935, in
an article written by you, is found the following paragraph:
"Fr example, look into the sohools in politics.
They are vital. It is in the schools and colleges that we prepare the citi-
zen of tomorrow for his task; and it is these young people who must receive
and transmit the ideals which we would have survive. And I conclude, reluctantly,
that Amerioanism is not taught in our schools to the extent that it should be
taught."
You will be interested undoubtedly, therefore, in the
following s tatement of facts; there was presented to the Hawaiian Legislature
on Maroh 27th, a request for investigation of certain charges, publicly made
and not yet denied, that the Department of Cultural Relations of Japan, with
approval of the Department of Education of Hawaii, had arranged for the use in
the Public Schools of the Territory of oertaint ext books covering information
concerning Japan, her history and objects, prepared under direction of the
Japanese authorities in part; and also that the intention has been announced of
sending from Japan for use in the Japanese language schools of Hawaii (wherein
nearly 50,000 young American citizens of Japanese ancestry are taught, largely
by Buddhist aliens) "educational material concerning the vital national defense
polioy of Japan".
"Dentsu", a Japanese news agency, under date of May
3rd, and the Unite d Press, under date of May 15th, stated in telegraphed
advices to the mainland that this petition for investigation was quietly pigeon-
holed by the Senate Eduoation Committee to which it had been referred in order
to avoid the stirring up of unnecessary racial controversy and for the added
reason that the Japanese are the second strongest voting element in the Hawaiian
Islands. Note also copy of letter from the Chairman of the Eduoation Committee
of the Hawaiian Senate, May 18, 1935,
The enclosed copy of resolution passed by the Native
Sons of the Golden West, May 23rd, and certain releases issued by this committee,
#407-8-9-10, 420-A, will advise you of some of the details in cormection with
the matter. This offioe has copies of all the documents referred to and would
be glad to furnish any further information which may be desired.
Very truly yours,
I.. M Dataly
V. S. MoClatchy, Exec. Secy.
VSM.DK

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
CHARLES M. GOETHE
California Joint Immigration Committee
85 SECOND STREET
HON. U. S. WEBB
Phon GAapild 2697
San Francisco, Cal.
V. S. McCLATCHY
(EXECUTIVE SBGRETARY)
JAPANESE PROPAGANDA IN AMERICAN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Japan is adding to her elaborate and frank system of propaganda in the
United States a plan thru which pupils in the high schools throughout this country are
to use text books prepared in Japan and giving the Japanese point of view on matters
national and international.
Protest was made to the Territorial School Commissioners of Hawaii by the
Sino-Korean Peoples League of Honolulu, in a letter, December ll, l934, againet coun-
tenancing such a plan. In that letter it is stated that the plan was approved at a
Departmental Conference of the Japanese Government at Tukyo, November 21, 1934; that
there were present thereat the Department heads for Foreign Office, Education Depart-
ment, Cultural Bureau, Overseas Education Institution, Promotion of International Cul-
tural Relations Society, and Prince Fushimi, Chief of the Japanese Naval Supreme War
Council, the founder of Hawaii's Prince Fushimi Scholarship Association, incorporated
in 1924.
Setsuechi Aoki, General Secretary of the Promotion of International Cul-
tural Society, said, "For several years the school heads of Hawaii and America with the
aid of many more influential educators and missionaries made a thorough survey of
American text books for the Japanese Society. The survey revealed that if proper prop-
aganda is systematically carried out in the sohools the American children will become
strong friends of Japan."
Concerning the proposed free distribution of Japanese text books in our
public sohools, Mr. Okada, the head of the Cultural Bureau and former Consul General
of Hawaii, stated "that all the necessary arrangements have been made with the Public
Instruotion, also with the various religious and social leaders in Hawaii".
The plan includes also distribution among all the Japanese language schools
in Hawaii and America of "educational material concerning the vital national defense
policy of Japan", and also the distribution free of charge to the teachers of all pub-
lic sohools in Hawaii of "reading material, portfolios containing Japanese pictorials
and other graphio materials for school room use, etc."
The letter of the Sino-Korean Peoples League concludes as follows:
"Undoubtedly you are aware of the significance of such projects in Hawaii. We are very
deeply touched and concerned with the action of the Public Instruction taking a hand
aiding in spreading Japanese propaganda in Hawaii. We believe the result will be dis-
astrous to Amerioanization of the American citizens of Japanese ancestry. God knows
they have enough contact with the things of Japan and the Yamato and Bushido Spirit in
their homes and in the language schools. Why let the Japanese Government promote Jap-
anism even in the public schools?"
Confirmation of these statements is found in a news item published Decem-
ber 3, 1934, in the "Japan Times and Mail" of Tokyo, a newspaper maintained by the Jap-
anese Government for the purpose of presenting to readers of the English language the
Japanese Government point of view on current matters. The article is headed, "High
School Students in U. S. To Be Given Books With Correct Information on Japan", and
states: "The Society of International Cultural Relations at its meeting Monday after-
noon decided on a plan to be followed for the compilation of school text-books to be
used for diffusing correct information on Japan. * * * * Material of instruction will
cover almost every phase of modern Japan, embracing topios on the government, economic
and sooial conditions, art, eto., which will be presented in a way that will appeal to
the average high school student in America,"
Japan's "International Cultural Bureau" is allowed 2,500,O00 Yen in the
Foreign Office Budget for 1935, while the recently created "Society for International
Cultural Relations" is supported by liberal contributions from Mitsui and Mitsubishi.
#407 2-5-35

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
CHARLESM. GOETHE
California Joint Immigration Committee
85 SECOND STREET
HON. U. S. WEBB
STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL
Pnon GAapild 2697
San Francisco, Cal.
V. S. McCLATCHY
ASED
JAPAN'S PSYCHOLOGY AND AMERICAN INTERESTS
The Japanese people believe, their leaders including the frank and forceful
Matsuoka, proolaim, and their sohool children are taught that Japan, as the only
nation whose ruler is Heaven-descended, is destined to rule the world. That belief
diotates the polioy and acts of Japan and of the Japanese.
That polioy received formal deolaration at the ceremonial naming of the new
Heir to the Japanese throne when the Court Scholar, Dr. Ichimura, quoted from the
ancient classics this language: "The essenoe of ruling the people lies in the enlight-
ening of them. * * * If there are persons not yet properly governed, it is because
they have not yet benefitted by the Imperial rule. * * * If those who have not yet re-
ceived enlightenment under the Imperial rule are found they are to be subjugated."
A knowledge of Japanese psychology in such matters makes understandable the
calm ruthlessness with which Japan during the present century has defied protests and
ignored or violated agreements and treaties, and conquered and annexed adjacent terri-
tory and held it under commermial or military control in furtherance of her varied
interests; it will explain to some extent the air of placid superiority with which she
suggests that oertain aots of other nations displease her sensitive people and should
cease--for instance the inexcusable act of the United States in floating its Navy on
the Pacific Ocean, and our recently announced intention to construct the Nicaragua
Canal, which prompted Japan to prefer a request to Nicaragua that she be granted
equal rights in construotion and control of such Canal; it will expiain why Japan
accepts compliance with demands of this character as recognition of the position to
which the Gods have assigned her and entertains corresponding contempt for the nations
which, as she assumes, thru weakness or fear, comply with the demands; it will explain
the calm assurance with which she openly propagandizes in this country for accomplish-
ment of her purposes and asks and secures the aid of American citizens and interests
in furtherance thereof.
It may even enable us to appreciate the humor in her latest move--a well de-
fined plan announced in the Japan Times of Tokyo, English language spokesman for
the Foreign Office, December 4, 1934, to introduce into our public school curriculum
a system of text books to be prepared in Japan with friendly counsel from a represen-
tative of the Institute of Pacific Relations, and designed to oover all matters on
which Japan wishes this country to be "properly informed".
In connection with that plan the General Secretary of the Society for Interna-
tional Cultural Relations reported that a thorough survey made for it by "the sohool
heads of Hawaii and America with the aid of many more influential educators and mis-
sionaries * * * revealed that if proper propaganda is systematically carried out in
the schools American children will become strong friends of Japan." *
The Sino-Korean Peoples League of Hawaii made, in December, a strong protest to
the Territorial Commissioners of Education against the introduotion of such text books,
declaring that the result "will be disastrous to Americanization of the American cit-
izens of Japanese anoestry"; that "they have enough contact with the things of Japan
in their homes and in the Japanese language schools, and why promote Japanism in the
publio schools."
Imagine the reaction in Japan if the United States announoed preparation by it
of text books for use in Japan's public schools to "properly inform" Japanese pupils
on subjeots of conoern to us!
* C.J.I.C. Release #407, which will be mailed on request.
#408
2-6-35

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
CHARLES M. GOETHE
GRATION STUDY COM'N
California Joint Immigration Committee
(TREABURER)
NBERG
85 SECOND STREET
HON. U. S. WEBB
FED. OF LABOR
GENERAL
Phon GAapild 2697
T. REGAN
San Francisco, Cal.
BEG'Y. NATIVE SONS
V. S. McCLATCHY
WEST
(EXECUTIVE SECRETARY)
Released
Copy of Item in Japan Times, Tokyo, Japan.
December 4, 1934.
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS IN U.S. TO BE GIVEN
BOOKS WITH CORRECT INFORMATION ON JAPAN.
The Society of International Cultural Relations at its meeting Monday
afternoon decided on a plan to be followed for the compilation of school text-
books to be used at high schools in the United States for diffusing correct
information on Japan.
According to the plan, the collecting and provisional compilation of
Material on Japan will be undertaken by a committee in this country, while
final compilation will be done by a joint committee including both American and
Japanese members. It was also decided at the meeting to present the draft by
the Japanese committee to Mr. Lasker, chairman on the cultural relations of the
I. P. R.**for his suggestions before sending it to the joint Japanese-American
committec for final compilation.
Material of instruction on Japan will cover almost every phase of modern
Japan, embracing topics on the government, economic and social conditions, art,
etc., which will be presented in a way that will appeal to the average high
school student in America.
*
The "Japan Times and Meil" publiched at Tokyo under direction of the Foreign
Office.
**
I. P. R. - The Institute of Facific Relations, whose members in rocent bi-
ennial sessions - notably at Bunf?, Canada, in 1933, were urged by tho
Japanese delegation thereto to proselyte for immigration quotu for Japan.
For further information in regard to this subject sec C.J.I.C. Roleases #407 - #408.
#409 2-7-35

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
CHARLES M. GOETHE
PRES. IMMIGRATION STUDY COM'N
California Joint Immigration Committee
(TREASURER)
IBERG
85 SECOND STREET
HON. U. S. WEBB
Phonz GArpield 2697
T. REGAN
San Francisco, Cal.
V. S. McCLATCHY
Leased
JAPAN PROPOSES TO INSTRUCT OUR PUBLIC SCHOOL STUDENTS
The Japan Times and Mail, English language voice of the Foreign Office of Japan
in its issue of December 4th last, published an interesting item headed, "High School
Students In U.S. To Be Given Books With Correct Information on Japan". The article
states that the Society of International Cultural Relations has adopted a plan for com-
pilation of text books for the purpose indicated, to be prepared in Japan by a special
committee with suggestions from a representative of the Institute of Pacific Relations.
The books will oover, it is stated, "almost every phase of modern Japan . . . in a way
that will appeal to the average high school student in America".
The Society of International Cultural Relations is an organization supported by
such powerful commercial interests as Mitsui, Mitsubishi, etc. It acts under direction
of the Government Bureau of Cultural Relations, which has been allowed an appropriation
of 2,500,000 Yen in the 1935 budget. "Cultivating cultural relations", is Japanese for
"inviting foreign approval of Japan's point of view". The Japanese delegates to the
Institute of Pacific Relations, at its recent bi-ennial sessions--and particularly at
that held at Banff, Canada, in 1933, as shown by news reports--sought to secure the co-
operation of American delegates thereto to obtain from the United States an immigration
quota for Japan.
USE OF THE BOOKS PROTESTED IN HAWAII
Further information as to the text book plan is found in a letter of protest
addressed by the Sino-Korean Peoples League of Honolulu to the Territorial School Com-
missioners of Hawaii, December l1, 1934. Therein it is declared that the plan was
approved at a meeting of departmental heads of the Japanese government, including the
Foreign Office, at Tokyo, November 21, l934. At that meeting, Mr. Okada, head of the
Bureau of Cultural Relations and former Consul General of Hawaii, is quoted as saying,
concerning the proposed free distribution of Japanese text books, that "all the neces-
sary arrangements have been made with the Public Instruction and also with the various
religious and social leaders of Hawaii".
Setuechi Aoki, General Secretary of the Society of International Cultural Rela-
tions, is quoted as stating that "for several years the school heads of Hawaii and
America, with the aid of many more influential educators and missionaries, made a tho-
rough survey of American text books for the Jepanese society. The survey revealed that
if proper propaganda is systematically carried out in the schools the American children
will become strong friends of Japan".
The plan includes also distribution among all the Japanese language schools in
Hawaii and America of"educational material concerning the vital national defense policy
of Japan".
The letter of the Sino-Korean Peoples League protests against such proposed use
of the public schools "in spreading Japanese propaganda in Hawaii" and declares that
"the result will be disastrous to Americanization of the American citizens of Japanese
ancestry".
* Details in C.J.I.C. Releases#407-8-9.
#410 2-13-35
Suggestion: Imagine the reaction in Japan if the United States were to publicly
announce its intention to introduce into the public school system of
Japan text books prepared under its direotion furnishing "correct information"concern-
ing the United States and its policy and views.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
Chas. M. Goethe
Imm. Study Com.
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGRATION COMMIT TEE
Hon. U.S. Webb
85 Second Street
Labor
State Atty.Gen.
GArfield 2697
gan
San Francisco, California.
V. S. MoClatohy
ns G.W.
(Exec. Secy)
sed
WILL HAWAII SUPPRESS INVESTIGATION OF
JAPANESE PROPA GANDA IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Honolulu, April 19,1935
On Maroh 27, 1935, a petition was presented to the Hawaiian Legislature by W. K.
Lyhen on behalf of the Sino-Korean Peoples League, asking for investigationof charges
as to Japanese propaganda activities in Hawaii, including the introduction into the
public schools of text books covering Japan and her place in the sun, prepared under
Japanese direction. The petition was referred to the Committee on Education, where,
according to news reports sent to the mainland, it will probably be pigeonholed. On
December 1l, 1934, the same organization filed a protest against use of suoh school
text books with the Commissioners of Public Instruction of the Territory, but it re-
eived no publicity.
Lyhan states that demand has been made upon him by certain interests concerned in
the text book plan and by others (fearful lest agitation of the subject should preju-
dice Hawaii's chance for statehood) for withdrawal of the petition made to the Legis-
lature; and that he has been threatened with deportation as an undesirable alien if he
continues his activities in connection therewith. He has refused to comply with these
demands, declaring that the charges are substantiated by documentary proof, that cit-
izens of Hawaii and of the mainland as well are concerned with learning whether such
charges be true or false, and that he is prepared to defend his action and his status
as a legal resident of Hawaii.
The following outline of the case is gathered from statements, not yet contradic-
ted, which appeared in the petition to the Legislature; in the protest to the Commis-
sioners of Education, covering report of a meeting of certain departmental heads of
Japan, held November 21, 1934; in an item published December 4, 1934, in the Japan
Times and Mail, English language voice of Japan's Foreign Office; in an official re-
port of the Superintendent of Public Instruction of Hawaii, Oren E. Long, February 20,
1935, and in comment thereon by Lyhan in a letter of March 5, 1935.*
The Department of Cultural Relations, Japan's instrument for foreign propaganda,
after careful survey and encouragement received from educational and church authori-
ties in the United States, decided that "if proper propaganda is systematically car-
ried out in the schools American children will become strong friends of Japan".
Arrangements were made for use of such text books in the Hawaiian public schools, and
the initial volume is now ready for printing in Honolulu. The material therefor was
gathered in Japan under the direction of Okada, head of the Bureau of Cultural Rela-
tions, formerly Consul General at Honolulu, and with assistance from Bruno Lasker of
the Institute of Pacific Relations. The book was compiled at Honolulu by Dr. Nisamichi
Royama of the Imperial University at Tokyo (who had three months leave for the purpose)
assisted by Miss Helen Gay Pratt "of the Institute of Pacific Relations and the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction".
It is charged that the plan also provides specifically for distribution in the
Japanese language schools of Hawaii of "educational material concerning the vital
national defense policy of Japan". Those language schools are attended by over 50,00
young Japanese, nearly all of them American citizens. The protest declares that use
of such propaganda in the sohools will tend to further Japanization of Hawaii and
"will be disastrous to Americanization of American citizens of Japanese desoent".
#420-A
*Copies of these documents are in the office of the California Joint Immigration
Committee. * * * * C.J.I.C. Docs. #407-8-9-10 contain details of the matter.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.97)
Letter frem Eduoatiom Committee of Hawaiian Senate
C
0
PY
Honolulu, May 18, 1935.
Mr. W. K. Lyhan,
Sino-Korean Peoples League of Hawaii,
1465 Fort St..
Honolulu.
Dear Sir:
In response to your inquiry of the
15th inst. regarding the petition of the Sino-Korean Peoples League
presented to the Legidature on the 27th of March. 1935, and referred
to the Edueation Committee of tho Senate, I would say that the s ame was
considered by the Committee, no action taken, and the petition at the
close of the Session was referred back to the Senate for filing.
Yours verytruly
s/d Flsie H. ilcox

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.94)
N. S. G. W. OPPOBES STATHHOOD FOR HAWAII
As Vallaje. Califoraia, May 2s, 19ss, the Grand Parler.
Mative Sens ef theGelden West, in aal corvention.
passed wenimously the following reselution.
MHEREAS, there is new pending in Congress a resolution introdused
at request of the Hemmiian Legislature to grant statehood to Hawall.
AEREAs, a similar measure of the Hawaiian Legislatare was vetoed
in l9sl by Governer Judd, with the deelaratien that mueh a request should be
pestpemed ustil time had shewn how the Asiatio mjority would exeroise its con-
trel of the franehise,
WHEREAs, twe-thirds of the total populatien of the Territory is
Asiatie, the predemimating element therein being Japanese, and twe-thirds of
these Asiaties are Ameriean citisens by birth and entitled to vote as they
reash majerity. whils the ontirs Cauoasian population is about one-tenth of
the totai.
WHEREAS, 60,000 or more Filipinos now living in the Torritary.
plus sush additienal meaber as may be admitted thereto during the next ten year
peried under a spesial provision ad the Independence Aot, plus all the alien
Japansse mow living in the Territory who ontered under the Gentlemen's Agreement
(all saek elements mew barred from the mainland) vould be free to enter conti-
nental Umited States if or when statehood bo sranted to Hawaii,
WHEREAS, there is now before the Hawmiian Legislature a petition
asking for investigation of charges, publicly made and not yet donied, that the
Bureau of Cultural Relatiens of Japan with approval of the Department of Eduee-
lie seheols throagh use therein of text books on Japan prepared under the
Buresu's direstiom, and for distribution to the 50,000 students in the Japanese
language seheols (Ameriean citisens) "of educational matorial concerning the
vital matiomal defense poliey of Japan"; therefere
BEsOLED. by the Grand Parlor N.S.G.W. thas the Senatere and
grant af stek eheed te Hamall wnsil smah time as it may be shown that swsh grant
may be made with perfest safety to the seourity and interests er the matiem, and
that the pepulation of the Territory may be relied upon for unswerving and undi-
vided allegianee to the Union and its standarda.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.96)
6
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
RECE
TMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON
1935 JUL 22 AM 9 42
JUL 20 1935
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
The Honorable AND RECORDS
Divisiono
FAR EASTERN APFAIRS
The Secretary of State.
A
21935
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Dedartaiant of State
This will acknowledge your letter of July 1l, Ref-
erence FE 894.20211A,
together with copies of correspond-
894.20211A/8
ence in regard to an alleged proposal by the Department
of Cultural Relations of Japan" to supply certain educational
material in the nature of propaganda for use in the public
schools of the Territory of Hawaii.
I have discussed this correspondence with Governor
Poindexter and he has asked the Superintendent of Public
Instruction in Hawaii to submit a full report to this
Department. As soon as this is received I will advise
you.
Sincerely yours,
HaroldSeher
FILED
Secretary of the Interior.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
REVEIVED
NAVY DEPARTMENT
x-4-5
In noply NOXi5- 1935
OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
WASHINGTON
sKt
Division of
 OCT 30 1935
State
I enclose, as of possible interest, a memorandum con-
cerning "Activities of Japan se visiting Hawaii".
With best wishes, I am
894.20211A/9
Very sincerely yours,
894.20211a
W.D. Puleston,
Captain, U. S. Navy,
Director of Naval Intelligence.
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
NOV 7 1935
Washington, D.C.
FILED
F/FG

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
NAVY DEPARTMENT
Office of the Chief of Naval Operations
OFFIOE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENUE
In reply refer to No.
WASHINGTON
0p-16-B-11
22 October 1935.
MEMORANDUM
Subject:
Activities of Japanese visiting Hawaii.
1.
The following extracts from a report are of interest.
"During the stay of the TAISEI  ARU at IILO, the
United States Attorney, Judge Ingram . Stainback, who
happened to pay a visit to the Island of Hawaii, observed
and reported as follows: While motoring on the west coast
of Hawaii in company with Governor Joseph P. Poindexter,
he observed a group of Japanese in uniform had set up a
sketching board at a point from which a lighthouse and a
section of the beach could be observed, and were engaged
in making what appeared to be a sketch map of that section
of the beach. Judge Stainback stopped his car, got out and
observed the partially complete sketch and identified the
group as personnel from the TAISEI MARU.
"The attention of the Japanese Consul-General at
Honolulu was called to the fact that he had failed to noti-
fy the Commandant of the expected arrival of the TAISEI MARU
in nclosure (J), and he was requested to furnish the Com-
mandant with a roster of officers attached to that vessel.
His reply, a copy of which is attached, Enclosure (I) avoids
reference to the fact of the early arrival of the ship and
does not contain information as to the status of officer
personnel on board."

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.95)
ACK
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
WASHINGTON
FORTMENT OF
NOVW127 1935
PAHT
1935: V 27 M 4 13
zh.18.1936
DFICEHE SRE
JOMMUNICITIONS
The Honorable
AND
.5
FAASTERN AFFAIRS
The Secretary of State.
NOV1935
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.20211A
In compliance with the request in your letter of July-1l
894.20211A/10
1935, File FE, 894.20214 I secured a mimeographed copy of a
statement entitled "Japan - Reference for High School Unit of
Work in the Study of Peoples of the Pacific Area". This is
evidently the educational material referred to as being supplied
by the "Department of Cultural Relations of Japan" for use in
the public schools of the Territory of Hawaii.
The Office of Education has made a detailed and critical study
of this manuscript with a view to its suitability for use in the
public secondary schools of Hawaii. As a result of this analysis
the following conclusions are submitted:
The material is not suited to the interests, abilities,
and experience background of pupils of secondary school age. Its
content is in large part concerned with abstract philosophical
tenets of Japanese scholars describing their social philosophy
but saying little about the effect, if any, upon the lives of the
people.
Introduction of specialized treatment of any foreign country
APR 11 1936
into the secondary curriculum is not in harmony with accepted
FILED
objectives of secondary schools of the United States. These ob-
jectives are general rather than specific, and their aim is
toward effective membership in society for all pupils and per-
petuation of traditional culture.
This manuscript 1s probably intended to be historical in
character. Prevailing practice in secondary schools of the
United States tends toward broadening the social studies field
through the introduction of sociological, economic and biological
studies rather than more history. Two years of history are generally
7

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
offered - American history and World history. Even English
history, formerly an offering in secondary schools, was offered
in only a fraction of one percent of secondary schools of the
United States in 1930. While there may be justification for
giving more attention to the history of the countries bordering
the Pacific Ocean in Hawaii than in continental schools, in line
with prevailing practice this should be done as a part of and in
connection with World history rather than through studies of each
of the countries as separate and distinct units. The secondary
school course is not long enough to offer such specialized courses
and also complete the courses directly in line with the achieve-
ment of secondary school objectives.
Considerable space is given to literature and art. This would
seem an excellent feature if it were not for the fact that there is
a good deal that is unimportant, if not trivial; summaries of
Japanese novels, for example, too brief to be of value in judging
their quality and giving no clear idea of either the type of
literature characteristic of the time or its influence on the lives
of the people. Much of the philosophy is abstract and difficult to
understand and seems quite unsuited to the interests of secondary
school pupils. Very little space is given to descriptions of the
life of the people, to creating an understanding of their govern-
ment, industries, and ways of living.
Prevailing practice in history teaching in the United States
places emphasis on political and economic aspects of history.
Phases of cultural history are regarded as incidental and supple-
mentary. It seems desirable for high schools in Hawaii to follow
established practices in the United States unless practice indis-
putably better is assured. The manuscript on Japan treats chiefly
of the cultural aspects of the ruling classes in Japan. There is
practically nothing in it about the political and industrial life
of the mass of the people.
As a whole the manuscript smacks of rather subtle propaganda.
Questionable activities are condoned or explained, or parallel
activities in other countries are mentioned, apparently to show
that Japan, when engaged in questionable undertakings, was no
worse than other countries. Expansion by the Japanese in Manchuria
and Korea is for stability and protection, unlike that in other
countries which is for conquest and aggrandizement. On the other
hand, the authors do not hesitate to censure the United States.
For example, the law forbidding entry of Japanese into the United
States is criticized as "one of the most indefensible and un-
-2-

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
fortunate pieces of legislation imaginable." Japan is said
to have scrupulously observed its agreement while the United
States is represented as abruptly breaking it.
I am forwarding the manuscript, together with copy of a
letter from Mr. Oren E. Long, Superintendent of Public Instruction
of the Territory of Hawaii, should you desire to make a further
review.
Sincerely yours,
HavelEches
Secretary of the Interior.
Enclosure 733647.
-3-

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
TERRITORY OF HAWAII
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INS TRUCTION
HONOLULU
ren E. Long
July 20, 1935.
Superintendent.
Dr. Ernest Gruening,
Director, Division of Territories and Island Possessions,
Department of the Interior,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
At the request of Governor Poindexter, I am submitting,
under separate cover by air mail, a mimeographed copy of a state-
ment entitled "Japan - Reference for a High School Unit of Work
in the Study of Peoples of the Pacific Area".
This mimeographed statement, which is only a preliminary
draft of what will ultimately be a published volume, is by Miss
Helen Gay Pratt, for many years a teacher in the public schools
of Hawaii and at Teachers College, University of Hawaii. While
working on this, Miss Pratt consulted many sources and had the
active assistance of Dr. Masamichi Royama, visiting professor
at the University of Hawaii during the second semester of the
school year 1933-34, Dr. Gregg Sinclair, associate professor
of English, University of Hawaii, and teachers from three pri-
vate high schools in Honolulu and two public high schools.
During the school year 1934-35, the manuscript was
used on an experimental basis in each of the following Honolulu
schools:
Punahou Academy, private high school;
Kamehameha School for Girls, private high school;
Kamehameha School for Boys, private high school;
McKinley High School, public high school; and
Roosevelt High School, public high school.
On the basis of this use, the manuscript is now being revised. It
will appear again in mimeographed form. After further experimental
use, it is expected there will be a preliminary printing similar
to a book prepared locally on China entitled, "China: Whence and
Whither?", after which it is hoped that it will be accepted by one
of the outstanding mainland publishing companies for regular pub-
lication.
For your information, I wish to point out that the work on
Japan is one of a number of titles which have been under considera-
tion for a period of about four years. Teachers of the Public and
private schools of Hawaii have been somewhat appalled at the lack of

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
authentic material bearing on the history of peoples living in the
Pacific area. In the absence of suitable textbooks, they set them-
selves the task of producing them. So far, they have actively
attacked five studies: Hawaii, China, Japan, Russia and the
Philippine Islands. Two books on Hawaii were published in l933.
These were: Ancient Hawaiian Civilization, edited by Miss Pratt,
and Hawaii and Its People by Miss Lorna Jarrett, instructor of
Geography at the University of Hawaii. Copies of these books
are being forwarded to you under separate cover. A book on the
Philippine Islands by Professor Kiesing, of the University of
Hawaii, is nearing completion and will doubtless be published
in the near future. Reference has already been made to the
book on China. After a mimeographed copy of the manuscript had
been used in a number of secondary schools during the year
1933-34, a preliminary printing was made for experimental use
during the year 1934-35. This has been well received both in
Hawaii and by a number of schools on the mainland. Criticiams
and suggestions have been received from many sources. On the
basis of these, the manuscript is now being re-edited for final
publication. The changes will be quite radical, both from the
standpoint of content and organization. The principal criticism
of the content is that sufficient space has not been given to the
life lived by the common people of China.
The work on Japan is undergoing a similar evolution. If
it proves to be as successful as the other books have been, we
will expect to use it in the public schools of the Territory.
Furthermore, there is every reason to think that there will be a
demand for it on the mainland. This, of course, will depend upon
the merit of the book and more particularly upon the ability of
those who are responsible for it to handle the present-day interna-
tional policy of Japan in a fair and constructive way.
In the final draft, there will doubtless be more space
devoted to the cultural background of Japan and to the life lived
by the masses of the people. It is not felt that any conclusive
statements can be made about current international developments.
This 1s touched upon at the top of Page 169 in the following brief
paragraph:
"The situation in the Far East changes daily,
and the international relationships of Japan are
modified very rapidly. The daily papers reflect
these changes. There is little that is stable in
the present-day world, and of all the unstable
situations, that in the Far East is one of the
most unpredictable."
The authors, however, had not hesitated to discuss develop-
ments of the past few years. The policy of expansion, for instance,
is referred to by quotation as "not only morally objectionable, but ....
-2-

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
inevitably unpopular in the territories absorbed as it leads not
only to political subservience but to occupation by an alien
garrison, and the native population regards the garrison, wich
much reason, as a means of suppressing their liberties rather than
defending their frontiers." (Page l47). The lack of any sound
economic basis for this policy of expansion is emphasized in a
statement beginning at the top of Page l62, and the attitude of
other nations is referred to as follows on Page l68: "The world
at large condemned this advance into Manchuria". An international
disapproval is further emphasized in the last paragraph beginning
on Page 194.
Further study is being given to statements that appear on
Page 150. Doubtless important changes should be made in the last
paragraph of this page.
I wish to emphasize that this Department is interested in the
book on Japan and the others referred to only from the standpoint of
securing the best possible instructional materials for the children
of our schools. There has been a nation-wide recognition during the
past few years that the Pacific basin generally has been neglected
in our school textbooks. An examination of any number of present-day
histories show this to be true. We have felt that Hawaii is in a strategis
position to make a contribution in this particular field. We recog-
nize, however, that any production will have to stand on its own
merit and will be subjected, particularly anything on Japan, to the
most searching investigation on the part of different groups, both
locally and on the mainland. It is for this reason that we are glad
to submit the mimeographed manuscript on Japan, with the request that
it be criticized by the Research Department of your Division.
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) OREN E. LONG
Superintendent.
-3-

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.93)
ENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
RDINATION AND REVIEW
Feb.3
apparenily this
started ly a
letter of Gune 20,1935
(894. 20 211 Af0j f20m
Navy.
Shoned Nary in
ans, be told whhalt we

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 29, 1936.
Mr. Perkins of HA and Mr. Coville and
Mr. Hamilton of FE have examined the text-
book on Japan under discussion. Mr. Perkins'
comments and views are contained in his
memorandum of December 27, 1935, in the file
hereunder. No separate memorandum has been
prepared giving the views of Mr. Coville
and Mr. Hamilton -- their views are embodied
in the attached draft letter to the Secretary
of the Interior. In the opinion of Mr.
Hamilton the book contains questionable
statements on pages 1nter alia 115, 127, 147,
150, 167, 168, 169 and 170.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR101936
epartment of State
m.m.H.
MMH/REK

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.97)
70
In reply refer to
February 18 1936.
FE 894.20211A/10.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The reoeipt is acknowledged of your letter of
November 27, 1935, on the subject of certain oducational
material with regard to Japan for use in the Territory of
Hawaii. With your letter, which was in reply to mine of
894.20211A/
July 11, 1935, you transmitted a mimeographed copy of a
manusoript by Helen Gay Pratt entitled "Japan -- Reference
for a High Sohool Unit of Work in the study of Peoples of
the Pacific Area," and you also transmitted copy of a
letter of July 20, 1935, from Oren E. Long, Superintendent
of the Department of Public Instruction of the Territory
0
of Hawaii, to the Director of the Division of Territories
and Island Possessions, Department of the Interior.
Mr. Long's letter closed with a request for criticism of
the manuscript.
In your letter of November 27 you point out that the
mamusoript is not particularly suited to pupils of secondary
school age, that in a mumber of respects the manusoript is
too
The Honorable
Harold L. Ickes,
Secretary of the Interior.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.96)
一8一
fee lomg for its intended use, that little attention is
teveted in the text to the life of the mass of the peeple
 Japan, and that the secendary sehool sourse is not long
eneugh to offer such a spesialised course and also soxplete
the sourses directly in line with the achievement of
sesomdary sehool objectives.
While this Departwent of course is not in position
adeguately to estimate the suitability of the manusoript
frem an edueational point of view, the oriticisms of your
Department would appear to be thoroughly warranted. You
will appresiate, however, that the interest of the Depart-
ment of State in the matter of a textbook to be used in
the Territory of Hawali relates to sush aspeets of the
question as mmy have a bearing upon the foreign affairs of
the United States. The Department wishes therefore to
direst attention to sertain considerations whieh it be-
lieves, from the standpoint of foreign relations, should
not be overlooked.
The Department feels that the mamuseript represents
in general a commendable treatment of the subjeet covered.
However, confined as the subject is to one coumtry, the use
of the mamuscript in the sohools of Hawall would raise the
question of similar instruotion in the sehools with regard
to other Paeifie neighbors. In Mr. Long's letter, it is
moted, mention is made of a similar textbook on China and

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.94)
olated mamuseripte on Russia and the Philippine
Telande. The Department takes the liberty of eaggeeting
that you will perhaps wish to make a study of thess woste
with a view to adepting toward all of them a substantially
Mimiler attitude. The conelusion that the taxtbeok  Jarm
is not suitable for inelusion in sesondary ssheol courees
and that use of sush a book is not in sonformity with aseept-
ed surrieuls for sesondary American edusational institutioms
would seem to warrant a presumption that similar textbooks
on China, Russia and the Philippine Islands and their use
would be open to similar obfection. Should examination of
the textbook on China and of the other contemplated text-
books sonfirm this presumption, it is suggested that it
might be advisable from the standpoint of the foreign rela-
tions of the United States that disapproval, when made, of
the adoption of sueh textbooks be made general and appli-
cable to all the books of this group rather than to the
partieular book treating the partioular country under
referenee.
A second suggestion has to do with the disoussion of
Japan's foreign relations beginning at page l66 of the
manuscript under discussion. Considerable space is devoted
to an explanation of Japan's contentions while the attitude
of the United States is set forth but briefly. In an arem
where assimilation of alion populations is presumably a
amjor objestive of the sehools, adequate presentation of
1

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.96)
●4
the poliey of the United States is surely desirable at
some peimt in the studemts' program of study.
A few speciric textual changes which the Department
would suggest are:
(1) On page 127 ocours a paragraph whtah develops
the idea that, when foreign nations were considering sur-
rendering their extraterritorial jurisdiction in Japan, the
one argument which carried weight was Japan's military
strength. This conelusion is ineccurate. There is ample
evidence that many factors other than military strength
carried weight with the foreign nations dealing with Japan
at that time, such as the great internal progress made by
Japan in many different fields in the years following the
establishment of extraterritorial jurisdiction in that
country. Furthermore, as the paragraph stands at present,
omission of the significant fact that the United States
several years before Japan's military success of 1894-1895
was disposed to surrender extraterritorial jurisdiction in
Japan, conditional only on similar aotion by the other
powers, gives an impression of a willingness to understate
the Ameriean point of view.
(2) The Department of State agrees with the
suggestion contained in the letter of July 20, l935, of the
Superintendent of the Department of Publie Instruction of
Rawa12

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
memaii that important shanges should be made in the lmet
peregreph of page 150 of the mamuseript. The paragraph
eited is thus worded:
"Im l92e, the United States passed a law for»
thus abruptly breaking the Gentleman's Agreement
of l907. From any point of view, this was one of
the most umjussifiable and unfortunate pieses of
legislation imaginable. Under the Gentleman's
Agreoment only 200 Japanese could enter the United
States anmually, and the agreement had been
serapulously observed by Japan. An annual immigra-
tion of g00 could not possibly offer an esonemis
threat to a country the sise or the United States.
But the ending of this agreement of 1907 could, and
did, Greate great feeling in Japan, not only beeause
of the content of the new law, but besause of the
way in whieh it was passed by Congress without any
conferenee or diseussion with Japan. The Ameriemn
Immigration law of l924 changed the whole atmosphere
of international relationships in the Far East, and
shanged it for the worse."
This paragraph is full of inaccuracies and exaggerations.
The Immigration Act of l924 did not constitute a breaking
by the United States of the gentlemen's agreement of 1907.
There oan be no doubt of the right of the United States to
enest sush legislation, and this fact was ackmowledged, be-
fore the passage of the Aot, in a note to the Beeretary of
State from the Japanese Ambassador at Washington, April 10,
1924, in the following words: "The gentlemen's agreement
is an understanding with the United States Government by
which the Japanese Government voluntarily undertook to
adopt and enforce certain administrative measures designed
to sheek the immigration to the United States of Japanese
laborers, It is in no way intended as a restrietion on

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.92)
-
evereige righs of she Unised states he regulate see
rtion." It is not correet that under the el
agrement only two hndred Japanese sould enter the Untted
atates anmwally, and statisties of the Commiesiener of Iml.
gratien of the United States show that the muamber of ismir
Japemese admitted to the United States during the yeare im
whiah the gentlemen's agresment was in force far surpassed
that figure, varying from a low of 2,798 (of which 1,239
inte Hawai1) in one year to a high of 10,168 (of whieh 2,8s6
into Hawaii) in another year. It is unnesessary to enter
into the details of this technisal question, but it ean be
stated without resserve that the assertions in the cited perm-
graph of the manuseript are not supported by the fasts. It
might alse be pointed out, in regard to the inferense of
Japanese injury, that Japan has never recognised a general
right of aliens to immigrate inte Japanese territory and in
astual practiee has not granted suoh a general right.
(5) On page 170 ocours the paragraph: "Japan
has suggested that naval parity may not necessarily be
interpreted as foroing a new race in naval construstion,
but might lead to restristing the building of capital ships.
The United States, in particular, depends upon capital shipss
on account of her position, and hence is unwilling to accept
this proposal for a reduotion." This assertion is mislead-
ing in its present form and the Department suggests that

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
-7 -
entire paragraph be omitted; the only temable altese
mative would be a detailed statement mcourately resemmtime
the facts, whish would be too long to be satisfactory as a
paragraph in sush a textbook.
The Department of State appreciates your cooperative-
ness in obtaining the mamuseript on Japan and in making the
study of it whieh is refleoted in your letter of November 27.
Several officers of the Department have now added their study
of the dosument made available by your kindness, and their
sonolusions are embodied i'n this letter. May I request, how-
ever, that whatever motion you may decide to take in this
matter be not attributed to the initiative of the Departmens
of State? The Department of the Interior is of course'free
to make use of any of the comments or suggestions contained
in this letter, but it seems advisable that this matter of
textbooks for the sohools in Hawaii be handled primarily as
a problem in education and therefore as falling in the
province of the Department of the Interior.
The manusoript on Japan forwarded with your letter of
November 27, 1935, is herewith returned.
sinoerely yours,
A true popy of
Cordell Hull
Enclosure:
Manuseript entitled "Japan
 Reference for a High
School Umit of Work in the
study of Peoples of the
Pacifie Area."
m.m.1d.
CC
FE:00/DLY
FE
1-29-36

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.91)
SK
RIM.NT OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AIE
DCR
RECEIVED
T/KR7
OFFICE OF THE ATSTORGALAVISER
24 1936
DIVISION OF
December 27, 1935.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Turner:-
I send you herewith
a few comments, toge ther with the neg-
ative phostat of the references given
atthe end of the manuscript.
Pages 9, 16, 33. 34,107,
109, 127. 128, 135, and 150,a11 contain
in my opinion, questionable material.
M. E. P.
PAR AR 

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.96)
tito
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DCR
Division of
RECEIVED
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 8 1990cember 27, 1935.
FE
DIVISION OF
Mr.Tarner:
I have read the manuscript on Japan transmitted
with Mr. Ickes' letter of November 27, 1935, and
F
believe that the comments made in his letter are
H
quite sound.
894.20211A/
Although it is both natural and reasonable that
students of the Japanese race in the Hawaiian Islands
should be given an opportunity in the public schools
to acquire some special knowledge of the land of their
racial origin, it seems to me that this manuscript
bends over backward in its desire to achieve this
purpose and loses sight of the fact that the aim of
0
the public schools cannot be other than to melt the
students of the various races of Hawaii into bona fide
Americans. This manuscript not only fails to promote
that end, but definitely obstructs it. I am reluctant
to believe that, in its preparation, there was any
intention to further "pernicious propaganda"; but
there runs through it all the evidences of a Japanese
APR81
shading that cannot be erased by removing excerpts
here and there; for the Japanese toning pervades the
whole product. There is perhaps nothing very wicked
F
or dangerous in this per se; and I should not perceive
/FG
any very great objection to the work being placed in

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
public libraries, where it might be available as
representing a view point at least partially Japanese;
but I do think this fact is a sufficient reason for
its rejection from the public schools as a text book.
In detailed criticism, it may be said that a very
large part of this material is quite unsuited to students
of high school age and that portions of it would be
of questionable utility even for students in elementary
college courses. A goodly portion of the manuscript
could be deleted to much advantage. The summaries
and extracts from novels and plays are long enough
to occupy much space, but too short to give any
worth while idea of the works from which they are
taken. Much of the philosophy is beyond the powers
of students in secondary schools. The portions
dealing with modern Japanese politics, although
containing for the most part correct statements of
fact, abound in half truths and amount to little more
than special pleading.
The question of the extent to which students
of the Japanese race in Hawaii should receive special
instruction about Japan is perhaps one more suitable
to be passed upon by the Hawaiian authorities. If
high school children of the Italian race in New York
City were given a similar amount of special in-
struction about Italy, I should feel that it was

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
xcessive in relation to the time at their disposal
for acquiring the usual American high school education.
Notwithstanding the foregoing criticism, the
reading of the manuscript has not been an uninteresting
task; and I should by no means recommend that it be
cast into the fire and burned. But I do think that
the thregd of Japanese silk running through the
whole work renders it unsuitable for use by those
who are expected, I presume, to become American
citizens in fact as well as in name.
M.
HA:MFP:LEG

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
Apr1l 9 1938
In reply refer to
FE 894.20211A/10
CONFIDENTIAL
894.20211
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Reference is made to the Navy Department's letter
of June 28, 1935 [A8-2/1F37(350628)], enclosing a 1etter,
with enclosures, from Mr. V. S. MoClatchy, Executive
Secretary of the California Joint Immigration Committee,
A/
in regard to a report of Japanese propaganda in American
0
sohools. Reference is also made to this Department's
letter of July 1l, 1935, stating that the Department of
the Interior had been requested to investigate the matter.
There is enelosed for your information and file a
copy of a letter dated November 27, 1935, from the Secretary
of the Interior transmitting a copy of a textbook referred
to in Mr. Moclatchy's letter, and making detailed comment
thereon. There is also enclosed a copy of my letter to
the Secretary of the Interior dated February 18, 1936,
which expresses the views of this Department in regard to
the textbook under reference.
It
The Honorable
Claude A. Swanson,
Secretary of the Navy.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
It is understood that the Departmont of the Interior
has taken up with interested organizations the matter of
the use of textbooks on foreign countries of the Pacifie
in the publio schools of Hawaii.
It is requested that the opinions expressed in the
appended letters be treated as confidential and that no
mention be made of the fact that the matter under reference
tas received the attention of this Department and of the
Department of the Interior.
Sincerely yours,
ordell 
Enclosure:
From Sooretary of the Intorior,
November 27, 1935.
To Secretary of the Interior,
February 18, 1936.
9782
11m
FE:WTT/DLY
FE
4-7-36
Boutine

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
ILITARY INTELL IGENCE D IV IS ION
WAR DEPARTIENT
12J11
Secretary of War
Assistant Secrotary of War
Secretary, General Staff
G-1
G-3
G-4
War Plans Division
Statistics Branch
Budget & Legislative Pl. Br.
Adjutant General's Dept.
Army Industrial College
Army Jar College
Air Corps (Liaison Officer)
Cavalry
Chemical Jarfare Service
Coast Artillery Corps
Corps of Engineers
Command & General Staff School
Field Artillery
Finance
Infantry
Inspector General's Dept.
Insular Affairs
Judge Advocate General's Dept.
Militia Bureau
Office of Naval Intelligence
Ordnance Dept.
Quartermaster General's Dept.
Signal Corps
Surgeon General's Office
Lstate Dept.:
Eastern Europe
Western Europe
Noar East
Latin America
Far East
Mexican Affairs
Commerce Dept.:
Foreign & Domestic Commerce
Automotive & Aeronautics
Trade Divis ion
For your information and file
Note and return
Note and send to

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
RLCFIVED
okyo Wealth
B 15 1936
1936
Estimated As
DIVISION OF
NEWS
On Downfall
City Stated
proximately
Yen Per Man
Divi: ion of
TOxYO, Feb. 1.-Tokyo has
Nipponese In
become pse of the greatest
citles of the world, but is à
Hawaii Stays
city at the end of October,
1935, reached as1,310,000 yen,
showing an increase of 31,400,-
HAWAII, Feb. 1.—Few Jap-
e00 yen compared with the
panese residents of Hawali
figure a year ago.
will move to the States in the
894.20211
This means that the wealth
event Hawaii is admitted to
of the oity becomes 147 yen
statehood, Samuel W. King,
per ·person. Thus, when the
debts are deducted from the
Hawailan delegate to Con-
gress in Washington, reported
Colombia University
properties the real worth of
in a letter to V. S. McKlatchy
the city dwindles to only 88,-
of Sacramento, Secretary of
Journalism Dean'
564,000 yen or fifteen yen per
the California Joint Immigra-
citizen.
tion Committee, today.
Praises Nippon
Mr. King said tnat the ma-
jority of alien Japanese in Ha-
waii arrived prior to 1908 on
PARIS, Feb. 1.—High tribute
passports restricting their resi-
o Japanese pressmen was paid
dence to Hawaii. King added
by Professor Carl Ackerman,
that existing statutes prevent
Dean of the School of Journal-
Japanese and other Asiatics
sm of Columbia University,
from going to the mainland and
during a press interview. He
furthermore that few of them
declared that Japanese newsps-
desire to leave their work or
vermen are "better than Ame-
business in Hawaii.
icans".
Professor Ackerman is now
;taying here to give a series of
ectures on the freedom of the
ress at the Sorbonne. He re-
ently completed an extensive
nspection tour to Canada, Ja-
an, China, Philippines, India,
Egypt and Italy.
"When I arrived in Japan,"
894.20211a
Mr. Ackerman continued, "I was
rejudiced against this country
ut soon realized that papers
here are technically superior
to ours, with better editors and
eporters."

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
FEB 1 1936
JAP-C.
U.S., Nippon
Y NEWS
Enters New
Understand
Recaliing how the United
States Navy, in its far-flung
HIROTO PROPOSES
maneuvers last summer stayed
"on its own side of the fence",
Diplomatic Negotiations
the articles asserted that Ame-
rica and Japan may agree to
To Solve Problems
divide the Pacific by a more
Between Nations
formal arrangement.
With Japan's withdrawal from
the London Naval Conference,
TOKYO, Feb. 1.—(INS)—
it was further suggested, a two-
Japanese newspapers, with
nation agreement might be
that unanimity which dis-
reached on naval, air, and land
closes official inspiration, to-
armaments—but whether Japan
day spread prominently re-
would continue to demand naval
ports of an American-Japan-
equality with America was not
ese understanding that may,
clearly stated.
they said, result in splitting
The Japanese Foreign Minis-
the Pacific into two "spheres
ter, according to one paper, Jiji,
of activity".
has instructed Ambassador Hi-
Although the United States
roshi Saito to open negotiations
Embassy here denied the sto-
in Washington to bring about
ries in all their particulars, the
a complete agreement embody-
newspapers said that Secretary
ing Hirota's ideas.
Hull had "accepted" two prin-
In the midst of all this peace-
ciples laid down by Foreign
ful verblage, however, the news-
Minister Koki Hirota. They are:
paper Nichi Nichi reported that
1. Problems between the Uni-
the navy is organizing a third
ted States and Japan are to be
air squadron base on the island
solved by diplomatic negotia-
of Formosa for patrolling the
tions.
South Seas area. A seaplane
2. Each country will prevent
carrier and a torpedo boat flo-
speeches and actions likely to
tilla will also be organized, the
provoke the other.
source said.
Ambassador Joseph C. Grew,
the vernacular papers said, car-
ried Hirota's principles to the
American State Department in
a trip to Washington last sum-
mer.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.94)
Mar Department Ac ly th
SR
ROEIV
March 20,1936
894.20211A/12
MAR 2 5 1936
nor Department of State.
MEMORANDUM FOR
HECORU
Colonel Slaughter, G - 2, suggested that I send the enclosed
letter to you for your information. The writer is an ex-service man
I do not know how much
whom General Knicht hns known for soe time.
credibility can be placed upon his statements.
ChasllRyde.
Chas.W.Ryder
Division of
Major, G.S.C.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MA
MAR211936
Department of Stato
F/FG

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.91)
Ach. by thshen
Staff
SCR
oH.
March 20,1936
894.20211A/12
te.
I that I send the enclosed
riter is an ex-service man
I do not know how much
ts.
Pyder
der
.C.
MAR 25 186
FILED
F/FG

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.85)
Honoluln Qhn IH.
my G. 2-
1465 Fout'sr.
Rebuany 10,1936
.Harry E knight
I2 Woodley Blavr
achnigton D.
Dean Sei:
Rr. Colonigation of Hawan- Throrugh Coogerate
Morement.
Recent dispatch from the Oreint byom agent
sard that"The Namyo Develogement C." have been
sntureted with the finds lohe weed mi Haran and the
South Sea Mandated Area. The recessary amount
rò said lohave been micluded in the Budget-1936
1937
"30 years ago."
In ony laal letter I jonted out Loyou of Honoratle
Heruwith presented fen exanple fiom newz
cling ,pony that Hon ekis peose wa go
The Hawaian Stan, January 7, 1907 stated.
The Janese "Laborers" Unve With thm Uniforms."
Upry significant fact drecovered by local cuslomsoffieindt
about the mmigrations on the 5.5. Cherisa Marer
- hot one of them has aecumed employment from the
flanters ussociationis.
"There anived last week by the Joanese 5.s: Chirsa
Mamm over sco Jagamse for Honolulen,  Practicallyerery

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.85)
2.
ploymnt.- that many of the men woks have
aved by the oezoelo are ex-Jajanese soldinis and
they brought sten cmfomrs with them. twao
obadwed that itu slandand of the min appeaved the
much highe chan that cohat would ordndhy be stpect.
id with a common laborer. Me mm were beltar educatied
the handwilny f many of them cwras chat f educaled
cuetome niquny as well as of the mguiny f the immi
gratim aunthoulius ,showed that they wer not ofthe
ndmary socalled coolnclass. - he Joganese deglaye
the falms of hi hand ; they were no't the hands efa
dabornig man" Thio was the year the JoanerGoo ushed then
ex-soldeeis)
The same newrgaper ni Jan-8,1907 alated.
Utan ltre was a year ago. --
The newr gublished ni the Star yesterday of the foat that
a large maumbed progortion of the ariving Japanes by the
Ss. Chnsa Marm! had unifoms of che Japanese anmy
among cheri geraonal effects, caused no surpliar among
isgaalors of custome Such a conditions had grevailed
aniong the gapanear for months paat. The onl changed
that has tlen notifeed is that thire have been a geater
proportion of Jojanese mimigeant with unifome.
recenlt thm formerly. hen has been cmost a
frogueewe inoreasr n the numbe, of these uniforms.
-- Anothn intreatng thing m connrection with the56o
mimigrant wbich ardrned letely is the fact thatonmer
annool they have depoiiled with the yokohama Bank aser
soooo yen . yt they wor searaled atthe station they

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.79)
ng a little longe. for yom regly, if you don't
me krow, shall take it as you say no.
So far Ihave secaceeked to stop the Japamiged
Teplook on Jopan" used ni the gullee and qruvate
high school of Hawa.
Jom now prolosting the hstitute Agatee Pocifi
Relations effort to ai the Jopanese Languageschl
tach thn the nntal uteof th Un
oI Hawann.
Alss I have prolested to the obovesdualelution againan
the mungning of thuis organigation ni Jagan indu the.
as-called Intunational Ansosiation of Jagan" a subsidyed
assgocation of the Jaganese Poreegn @ffice, CullralBurean.
Presidmt of the organization is Orseoint Iohii, who
put one osn on Secretary of State Lanang- "Tauaongbhn"
Agrcement. He hase annoenced tast an July 1934 that
Joganio-ains and foliais are-ete-He said;
"Leave the secn geation  the land orid
but don't let them foiget the Joganear Dnit. dtrthiswe
on buying select japaear goods, m voting coat the
ballt o cin uendy J
I such amis and folicris are aided by our
putlei schooh, Universetig, amd the I.P. R and the
leadming missionaries, thue is tound tobe danger of
oun sedurity.
Please geta cozy of"The Joganigation,  l H
which Iugote ome yeans ags Guera Smem wastnin
Yoursthuly
Kelooo taan
a Cogey of which he acknowledged.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.82)
xhitilid only c0 and 20 yon cach. - Beande 20,0oogon
thonoands sgent her ini the Jagavese shoes."
The edilon of the Hawan Shimpe a Jopanese darly
m. Shiozowa m July 1907 said, "The 560 laboners
who arnived on the s s. chinsa mane are the frist
lot of mnimigrant of the 11o0. who bave come to
Hawain within th last sif mouths"
Some yearo ago Baron Sheinagei goto said that the
e ai and poliy of longe iiaion is The
feacrfuly disgunsed military fugaudnses' He comgared
the german mhabitant in alsace-doraine i the
Franes  Prurssian Wan in (870. He aaid: "of
ogortunies are faoratle to gogan, theg cn be ammed at
ones and attack on enemy. of opgortunites a infavoratle
they can also be used to mainlani athongholds for
regotiating feser."
Ifelieve that is what they ar intendring todo
n Hawan, natually Lam intreslid kuou wkatyou
artuation with my oum emr for the ast rsys
May I ask what have you done with the
iiformations and are you willing to acoyt mone
im the future. The Anmean leaders and the Japues
hae made my contimnanee openly it ab no longer asoe
to cany on so if you think miy work wo of any
niterest loyon m snlighleung this situation lahal
gladly camyon the boad Sknot how, but if aftn

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.96)
SKH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
FEB 20 1936
February 8, 1936.
Division of
Mr. E. C. Carter, Institute of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Paoifio Relations;
FEB111936
Mr. Hamilton.
894.2022
Subject: Textbooks on the countries of the
Pacific for use in the public
schools of Hawaii.
fi4
894.20211
Mr. Carter called and referred to a conversation
he had had with Mr. Hornbeck in New York wherein Mr.
Hornbeok had mentioned the fact that there had come to
our attention a tertbook on Japan which had been pre-
pared for use in the public schools of Hawaii.
A/
Mr. Carter said that the local Honolulu ohapter of
3
the Institute of Pacific Relations had become interested
in the project of preparing tertbooks on the countries
of the Pacific for use in the public schools of Hawaii;
that such books on China, Japan, and the Philippine
Islands had already been prepared; that the textbook n
16.1936
China had been printed while the textbooks on Japan and
the Philippine Islands had been issued only in prelimi-
nary mimeograph form; that some preliminary use had been
made of the books in the public schools of Hawaii with a
F/F
view to determining their suitability and to obtaining
helpful oriticisms. Mr. Carter said that the beok on
G
the
"Chiwa: ushours and at ther?
by Foug- chun efoug
36
The Filipinn A Nation u the
7-9
Making by Felix M Kenaing
Cmimeographed

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
the Philippine Islands needed practically no revision but
that the books on China and on Japan needed considerable
revision and change.
Mr. Hamilton mentioned to Mr. Carter that he had
read the textbook on Japan and Mr. Hamilton pointed out
to Mr. Carter the respects in which the book seemed open
to objection, emphasizing the point that there was ques-
tion whether such comparatively lengthy treatment of the
countries of the Orient had a proper place in the course
of study of Amerioan secondary schools.
In conneotion with the revision of the books on
China and on Japan, Mr. Carter said that Mr. Field of the
Institute of Pacific Relations would shortly send us a
statement giving an outline of the contents of the re-
vised editions with indication of the method and nature
of treatment. Mr. Hamilton inquired whether anyone of
the Institute of Pacifio Relations had discussed this
general subject with the Bureau of Education of the
Department of the Interior. Mr. Carter replied in the
negative. Mr. Hamilton thereupon suggested that after we
had received Mr. Field's synopsis of the books we might
suggest to Mr. Carter that the Institute of Paoifio Rela-
tions have some member of its staff discuss this whole
question with the Bureau of Education of the Department
of the Interior.
Mr. Carter left with Mr. Hamilton copies of the textbooks
on China, Japan and the Philippines. He asked that the book
om Japan be returned to him by March 5.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.94)
ZCR
mmtd.
Maroh 6, 1936.
Doar Mr. Carter:
Referring to your call at the Department on
Pobruary 8, I am, pursuant to your request, returning
894.20211
herewith the copy of the textbook on Japan (prepared
for use in the publio schools of Hawai1) whioh you
were so good as to leave with us.
Sincerely yours,
MmHamil
3
OF
Enclosure:
Copy of textbook.
E. C. Certer, Esquire,
Secretary General, Institute of Pacific
Relations,
129 East Fifty-second Street,
New York, New York.
A troe
宏
FE
MMH/REK

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.80)
594.28
211
A
3
THe
20
CO THE

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
THE FILIPINOS
A NATION IN THE MAKING
by
Felix M. Keesing
A Preliminary Draft for Experimental
Use in the High Schools of
the Territory of
Hawaii
Prepared in the Department of Anthropology
University of Hawaii
Distributed by the
Hawaii Group
Institute of Pacific Relations
Honolulu, Hawaii
1935

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface
1
Chapter
I
Why Study the Filipinos?
3
II
A "Rosary of Glowing Islands"
6
III
A People in the Making
11
IV
The Filipinos as the Spaniards Found Them
19
V
Vassals of Spuin
25
VI
The Spanish Heritage in tho Philippines
30
VII
Enter Uncle Sam
37
VIII
A Land of Contrusts
44
IX
Crowds and Empty Spaces
51
X
Unity out of Divorsity
58
XI
The Worker of the Soil
65
XII
Rich Man and Tenant
73
XIII
Commerce und Industry
80
XIV
What of Solf-Government?
89
XV
Some Social Froblems
99
XVI
The Creative Spirit
109
XVII
Solections from the New Filipino Literature
116
XVIII
Filipinos Try Out a Golden Trail
12
XIX
The Trends of Nution Building
135
A Philippine Chronology
157
A Seleoted Bibliography
141

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
LIST OF SKETCH MAPS
Faoing
page
1. The Philippines - A Triangle of Islands
6
2. The Western Pacific
7
3. Density of Population
52
4. Towns and Communications
57
5. Local Groupings of the Filipino People
59
6. Principal Economic Features
65

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
-1-
PREFACE
This survey of the Philippine islands and their people has been
drafted as an experimental text for high school use. It was done under the
auspices of thc department of unthropology in the University of Hawaii, at the
request of the Huw ii Group of the Instituto of Pacific Relations.
The difficulties of trying to intorpret the life and problems of
several million people in sc small a space ure obviaus.
On the other hand,
there is as yet  short and comprehensive work available dealing with the
Filipinos. This survey attempts to give a sympathotic, scientifically
correct picture of the peopling of the islands, the successive Spanish and
American rule, and the problems and possibilities that face the Filipinos
as they start out upon their trial independence. A bibliography at the end
contains references to standard works on the Philippines which will fill out
the picture in greater detail.
It will be understood that the interpreta-
tion of Philippine mutters givon here is not necessarily subsoribed to by the
institutions concerned, but is untirely the writer's own.
.Any comments
and oriticisms that teuchers are willing to make us a result of using the
material would be greatly welcomed. hs noted, it is an experimental draft.
The writer must cknowledge his indebtedness to the Institute of
Paoific Relations, under the auspices of which ficld studics in the Philip-
pines were done; t, m ny friends in the Philippines, notably Professor H.
Otley Beyer of the University of the Philippines; to colleagues and teachers
in Hawaii who ruad the manuscript and made veluable suggestions; to the

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
publishers of the Philippine Magazine, Manilu, for permission to quote copyright
material; and to the writer's wife, Marie M. Keesing, who collaborated
throughout the study.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
CHAPTER I
WHY STUDY THE FILIPINOS?
What do we know of the Filipinos and their oountry? What are their
racial baokgrounds, their characteristics as a people, and their ways of living?
Why have many thousands of them come across to Hawaii and the American mainland?
How did their country become a possession of the United States, and why are they
now asking for their national independence?
A class of Amorican university students were asked recontly what was the
population of the Philippinc Islands. Their answers rungod from four thousand to
onc hundrcd and fifty million. Fow could givo thc names of any of the islands, and
praotioally nonc could namo a city or town there other than the capital, Manila.
Most of us, whether in school or grown up, would have to confoss likowisc that our
ideas are vaguc about Unclc Sam's largest insular possession.
We have all seen muoh in the newspapers and magazines as to whether or not
the Filipinos are ready to be made independent. Many older folk can recall how
Admiral Dewey took the islands from Spuin in 1898, and thousands of American
soldiers went out to fight those omong the "little brown brothers" who objected to
United States rule. Today we roul how people in some states of the Union resent the
Filipinos coming in as cheup luborurs. Yet it is caid that ninety per cent of
Americans would not recognize & Filipino us apart from other Oriental peoples or
else Latin Americans.
Why should we want to know the Filipinos and their story? In the first
place, Americans cannot escape a senso of being responsible for the welfare of the
Filipino people in view of the fact that they have beon wards of the United States
for more than thrce decades. Even when their indopendence comes, as Congress has
docreed, they will continue to look aoross the Pacific for guidance in eoonomio,

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
educational and other matters; the marks of Americanization cannot be wiped out.
For this reason, and also to understand better the thousands of Filipinos who have
come overseas, a knowledge of this island people will be useful.
Furthermore, their position in the Orient and Pacific is unique. Geographi-
cally and to a large extent racially they belong to the Orient. Yet the great
number of then huve been Christian for some threc and a half centuries, and through
the succussive Spanish and Amorican rule of their country they have come to identify
themselves largely with the Occident. With frcolom at hand, will they turn back to
the East, or try to westernize themselvos mor, or work out some speoial way of
life between the two thut will bo a kind of bridgc between East and West? Again,
will independonce be of benefit to them and to the wider world, in these days of
international troubles and rivalries in thc Pucific? Their island home is in many
parts underpopulated or cmpty, and nearby are crowded lunds. Its rioh resources are
little developed commorcially, and that largely by uericans, Chineso, Japanese and
other outsiders. Will the historiun of the future be able to write of the Filipino
nation that it has "made good," and of American guardianship and withdrawal that it
has been both wise an? generous?
Finally, the Philipnine islands huve roun one of Nature's most fasoinating
experimental laboratories in which sh is trying out new combinations of human
traits. Hawaii is ofton spoken of as a "melting pot." But the Philippines have
been a molting pot of races and cultures for far longer, in fact for thousands of
years. They seen to have caught somo of cvery kind of  olk that have moved castward
from Asia or roved the Pocific sons - ancient peoples like the pigmy Negritos, early
peoples called Indonesians reluted to the white races, Malayans who are more Asiatic,
Hindus from India, Arabs, Chinese, Japanese, Spaniards, Mexicuns and now Americans.
It may be that if all humanity tall, short, whito, yollow, brown and black, could b
shaken together into one whole, the result would be something like the Filipino

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
people now in the making.
As with race, so also it is with language, custom and belief, that is,
with culture. The Filipinos of today have acquired from their forefathers some
eighty or so dialects more or less mutually unintelligible; many know Spanish, and
now English is becoming the main common language. Though most are agriculturalists
there are still wundering peoples in tho deeper forcsts and mountains who hunt much
as did folk in the early days of man's development. One out of every eleven
Filipinos is either a Mohammeden, or a so-callcd "pagan" who worships ancestors and
the spirit forces of nature. While many Filipinos are educated to the point of
being virtually American in outlook and tastes, others even yet are hardly aware of
themselves as "Filipino," knowing littlc of aff irs outside their local villages and
traditional ways. It is a land of rich cultural diversity and mingling.
The Spanish conquorors named the islands Las Filipinas in honor of their
Crown Prince who later becamo Philip II. In English usagc this became the
Philippines (noto the one "1" and two "p's" and not vice versa). Following the
Spanish mode of exprossing gender, we speak today of any male among the local people
as a Filipino and of any femalc as a Filipina. The Spaniards themselves used to
refer to the islunders more usually us los Indios, or Indians. This was not becauso
of the actual fact that a considerable proportion of their blood traced back to
India, but rather that the term which was mistakenly applied by Columbus to the
peoples of the Americas was again transferred by the Spaniards from America to the
Philippines. When in modern days, a consciousness of a common nationhood began to
stir among the Philippine folk, they put aside the term Indio as bearing a stigma
and oalled themselves instcad Filipinos.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
LUZON
MINDORO
PANAY
CEBU
NEGROSW
PALAWAN
MINDANAO
SULU ARCHIPELAGO
THE PHHLIPPINES A TRIANGLE OF ISLANDS

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
-6-
CHAPTER II
A "ROSARY OF GLOWING ISLANDS"
To understand the life of the Filipino or of any other people, it is
essential to know the land in which they dwell. Men have needs for food, clothing,
shelter, tool, and the like whioh make them directly dependent on Nature, or, as
the scientist calls her, the physical environment. The climute, type of country,
and natural rosources affect not only the physique of the inhabitants but also
their customs and ideas. True, humans have loarnt to counter somewhat the effects
of heat and cold, to control soil und wator for ugriculture, to brced plants and
animals, work minorals, and hurnoss clectricity. That is, they have fashioned for
themselves a "seconlary environnt" in which to live more comfortably and safely.
This, however, is no congu st of nature us somo aro wout to boast. Rather it is
developing tenm-vork with nature; ordering her by obeying her orders. We cannot
know the Filipino without exumining at the sturt the physical environment of the
Philippine Islands.
As with any visitor to un unfamiliar placc, the best rule is to look at a
map. Could wo drew a map of the Thilinpinos fron momory? It would not be casy, for
there are estimated to be 7,O33 islands large and small in the archipelago. The
most convenient way to rcmember the group is to cce it first as a rough triangle,
within which the islands appear not unlike tho bony skoleton of some squatting
animal (see skotch map 1). This triangle or skel ton falls into four main parts.
1. In the north is the largost island, Luzon. Off its west coast is a
smaller one named Mindoro, while northernmost of all are two groups of islands
called the Babuyanes an! Butanes.
2. In the southeast is the socond ltrgcst island, Mindanao. A string of
islands running southwost from it toward Borneo is known us the Sulu Arohipelago.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.98)
40°
THE
KOREA
JAPAN
WESTERN
CHINA
(Empire of
30°
(450 millions)
SHANGHAI
INTERNATIONAL
94 millions)
PACIFIC
SETTLEMENT
BONINS
HONGKONG
FORMOSA
HAWAII
(Portuguese)
20
MARIANAS
(Mondate)
WAKE
SIAM
JAPANESE
12 millions)
FRENCH
GUAM
INDO-CHINA
111.
(20,000)
(US.A)
(73000)
107
(22 millions)
PHILIPPINES
(13 millions)
MARSHALLS
(Mandate)
PALAU 19.
SUMATRA
BRITISH
MALAYA
(Mandate)
CAROLINES
(Mandate)
(5 milliona)
(British)
BORNEO
(Dukh)
EQUATOR
CELEBES
MOLUCCA
NAURU
M
DUTCH
NEW GUINEA
SULUMON I5.
JAVA
PAPUA
MANDATE
(62 millions)
PORTUGUESE
10
TIMOR
INDIES
DUTCH
(480,000)
TIMOR
NEW HEBRIDES
CONDOMINIUM
(British & French)
NEW CALEDONIA
AUSTRALIA
(French)
20
KEESING

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
~7-
3. Between Luzon and Mindanao are a cluster of large and small islands
kmown collectively as the Visayas. The most important in terms of size are Samar,
Negros, Panay, Leyte, Cebu and Bohol.
4. The west side of the Philippine triangle is made up of a long narrow
island, Palawan, and a cluster called the Calamian islands.
The total land area of the Philippines is about 114, 400 square miles. It
is thus larger than Italy or New Zealand, for example, and nearly as large as the
British Isles or Norway. Of the states in the Union, only Texus, California,
Montana and New Mexico excced it in size. The island of Luzon covers some 40, 814
square miles, Mindanao 36,906, Stmar 5,124, Negros 4,903, Palawan 4,500, Panay 4,448,
Mindoro 3, 794, and Leyte, 2, 799. In a1] there ure thirty islands more than 100
square miles in extent, anl s, 52? that are not oven one square mile, being merely
rocky or coral islcts. The distance from the northernmost to the southernmost point
in the group is about 1,120 miles, or somevhat more than from Washington, D.C. to
Kansas City, or Chicago to Gulveston, Toxas.
The Philipnine Islands are often spoken of as part of Malaysia. That is,
they form onc section of a semi-circle of island groups lying off the southeast
coast of Asia, which together with that coast is inhabited mainly by peoples called
Malay or Malayun. Sumatra, Java, Bornco, the Culebes to the south of the Philip-
pines and Formosa to tho nortn mako up the rest of the semi-circle (sketch map 2).
At one time, indeed, there were direct land connections between the
Philippines and the Asiatic muinland by way of Bornco end Java. The earliest
settlers wcre ablc to comc across ary-shod. Porhaps 25,O00 years ago, the level of
the occun rose, engulfing the valleys and forests and leaving the Philippines as a
group of islands. This may have been caused partly by a volcanic subsidonce - even
today the Pacifio Ocean is ring d with active volcanos, und movements of the earth's
surface are not infrequent. But some soientists believe, rather, that when the last

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
great Ioe Age gripped the earth, more water beoame frozen around the north and
south poles, so that the ocean level was lowered for that period, exposing parts of
what is now the bed of the shallow China Sea. However that may be, all later comers
to the Philippines, including the visitors of today, have had to travel in boats.
The climate of the islands is tropical. The southernmost parts of Mindanao
and Sulu are only about five degrees north of the equator. Yet there are some high
mountain ranges cool enough to have a touch of frost at night, and peaks soar here
and there to about ten thousand feet above sca level. But the coastal and lowland
areas are mainly hot and humid. The northern rogions of the Philippines are subject
to occasional destructivo typhoons, the "typhoon scason" being from June to Ootober.
The brown-skinned Filipinos are well accustomed to the torrid sun and the
rainy dampness, though to the person from tomperate zones they are enervating.
Dur ing the cooler winter from November to April tho west coast of Luzon on which the
capital city, Manila, is situated, has a drier season, whilo the east coast has rain.
Rain comes to the west coust in the hot season, May to October, during whioh time
the east is drier. This difference comes about through the chenges in the monsoon
winds, which, blowing from the northeast and southwest alternatively, meet the
central mountains and discharge thoir rain on the windward sides. The middle part
of the archipelugo, with its soattered islands, has a less marked seasonal change
from wet to dry. Some of the mountainous scctions of the interior catoh rain from
both monsoons and huve a heavy rainfall most of the year. Theso differences in
climato would bo of the greatest importance to anyono studying Filipino agriculture,
for the annual cyoles of planting and harvest vary from placc to place aocording to
how the seasons run.
Plant and animal lifc in the Philippines is abundant. Wherever men have
not broken in tho soil, lush jungles grow in thoir primaeval splendor. Vhere they
leave olearings untended, these soon are reclaimed by the forest. It is calculated

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
that two-thirds of the total area of the islands is still forested today. Many
of the trees and plants are of high commercial value. Most of the Filipino
people live by the coast, where they can catoh the plentiful fish, and where
also they oan as far as possible avoid the dread disease of malaria which is
the soourge of the jungle. Nevertheless some of the Filipinos, we shall see,
count the forests and the high mountains as their home. Deer, wild hog,
monkeys, snakes, hundreds of difrerent kinds of birds, and other wild life
abound in the inland districts, whilo there are crocodiles in the streams.
The
Filipinos huve as domestic animals the largo und lunbering carabao or water-
buffalo, likewise pigs, dogs and chiokens.
Cattlo and horses have been intrc-
duced in modern times.
The native flara and fauna of the Philippines have proved especially
interesting to sciontists as the islands stand between two great botanical and
zoological regions: that of Asia and that of Australiu. Thus Asiatio
enimals such as olephants and tigers are knewn as far cast as Java and orncə,
and Australian ones such as the kangaroo oocur the other side in New Guinea.
The Philippines have neither the one nor the other; but the plants and animals
it possesses appear to be related to those of both areas. Several speoies,
including a wild bufialo of Mindoro Island callod tanarau, are not known elsewherc.
Once brokon into cultivation, tho lowland regions are richly pro-
duotive. Rice, sugar, tobacco, and all other tropical crops can be grown in
abundance. On the higher slopes, fruit and vegetables of more temperate lands
thrive. The Philippines are especially known for their abaca, or hemp, out of
whioh rope and other produots are made. of minerals, gold has so far proved
the most profitable. Chinese merchants ca mo to trado for it in early days,
and Amerioun capitelists now own mines in northern Luzon that are yielding
millions of dollars worth of the yellow metal annually. Iron, coa 1, coppor

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
and other useful minerals have been found in considerable quantities. But as
yet they have been little exploited for lack of means to work them or markets
for the produots. Several swift and dependable rivers can be harnessed for
hydro-electric power.
This physical environment has, as we shall see, played a large part
in the making of the Filipino people. Sea-coast, jungle and mountain have each
stamped their soparate marks upon the local groups dwelling there.
Communities
tended to be isolated from one another by the ruggedness and broken character of
the country, and so developed alon: their own lines.
Their members came to know
and have a feeling for every feature of their particular territory.
Their
oconomio life, lore and story and to some extent relirious beliefs became bound
up with it.
The Filipino of today is deeply attached to his ancestral locality,
and though he may move to the city or to another district he still regards it as
home.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
-11
CHAPTER III
A PEOPLE IN THE MAKING
When, long ago, the Philippines were connected by land with Asia, bands
of early humans wandered out into their mountains and jungles.
Possibly there were som: whom scientists label "Australoid. "
Numbers
of these people passed through Malaysia to become the anoestors of the present
Australian aborigines.
The Australoius or related groups appear to have been
wide-spread in the ancient world.
The white peoples are believed to have evolved
from some who found their way to Europe.
Another land migrating folk were dur -skinned, frizzy-haired pygmies, or
as the Spanish culled them "Nogritos."
Not much over four foot high when fully
grown, they roved the forest; in bands of about twenty-five to thirty individuals,
hunting game and uthering the wild products of th jungle. A remnant of the
Negrito people still survive in the Philippines, mainly in the north of Luzon.
Later comers have pushed them back into the deeper forests und swamps, and they
number today perhaps thirty thousand.
If, today, we go out upon the hills inland from Manila, we can pick up
many hundreds of glass-like obsidiun flakes and arrow heads which appear to have
been the first tools of the Negritos, or the chips leit where they made tools. In
later days, they took over metal lmives and a few other useful objects from the
peoples who oame after them.
But in ost ruspects they kept apart.
Though
among themselves they were a kindly and merry folk, until recent years any stranger
would be met by a shower of poisoned arrows.
All attempts to get the Negritos to
settle down as agriculturalists huve failed.
It suems that as the jungle is cut
1
For an account of their lifo today, see "Our Philippine Pygmies" by J.M.Garvan,
in the Philippine Magazine, August, Septomber and November, 1934.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
●12
Another group of very short people living in the Philippines are lovers
of colder weather than is found in the tropic lowlands. Of more Mongoloid
appearance than the Negritos and with straight heir, they live on misty mountain
heights.
Their numbers today are not accurately nown.
They too keep apart
and live a roving existence as hunters. Probably there are thirty thousand,
nearly all living in Mindanao and Mindoro, notably the Mangyans and the Atas.
Some say that such short folk came across to the Philippines efter the Negritos,
and apply to them the name "proto-Malay," thut is, early Malay. Others think
they may have developed in the Philippines from the mixing of pygmies with the
tall peoples who arrived later.
The importance of these early folk lies not in any extensive contribu-
tion of knowledgo or custom they lave made to the modern Philippines, but rather
in the fact thut, through intermarriage with subseguent migrants, their blood has
spread widely within the Filipino people.
It uppears to explain why so many
. Filipinos are short in stature. A similar mingling with pygmies has left its
mark upon other Asian and Malaysian peoples such as the Japanese, Indo-Chinese,
Siamese and Javanese.
Perhaps eight thousand years ago, long after the submergence of the land
bridges between the Philippines and Asia, thore began to arrive by canoe groups of
sottlers who may be called "indonesians."
As their name indicates they came by
way of India; literally, it means "Island Indians. "
Their affiliations were
with the white races rather than the yullow-brown or Mongoloid, though they also
were mingled to some extent with black or Yegroid folk.
Some of these Indonesians,
after mixing considerably with Mongoloid people, headed their canoes into the
open seas further eastward than the Philippines and other Malaysian lands. Heroic
voyagings of discovery brought them to island after island of the Pacific, where
their descendants are known to us as Polynesians, or people of the "many islands."

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
The Indonesians were tall, vell built and brown of skin.
Their racial origins
and their eric travels are subjects of fascinatin study.
Many theories have
been woven about then, but the evidence is scanty and we must await further
research before any one of these can be fully accepted.
When the Indonesians arrived in the Philippines, they were & stone age
people.
Numbers of their rough or polished adzes are being pioked up on the
fertile plains, and some of their old time village sites can be traced.
They
seem to have been agriculturalists and fishermen, also great warriors. Probably
many of them came without wonenfolk, so that they too? wives from the short
people already there.
They also min led extensively with Mon oloid Malayans
who came later, and who were medium or under mediun size.
Nevurtheless, in many
parts of the Philippines today, there are individuals to be found who are very
tall, while the white raoial type shows through.
Thousands of th "pagan" hill
people seem to show Indonesian affiliations not only in their physical charac-
teristics but also in their family and village organization and life.
Indonesians have thus left a strong imprint on the modern Philinrine people, both
physically and culturally.
To understand the next soene in the drama of Filipino history, it is
essential to know somethin of wh t was happenin: at the time in the surrounding
Eastern world. Early in the Christian ere, a number of Malayan states took form
in southeast Asia and in the islands of Sumatra und Java not far from the Philip-
pines. Little is said in history boo'ts of these, or of the reat empires into
which they were welded between the fifth and fifteenth centuries, for only recently
have scholurs been bringing their story to light.
But they played a most import-
1
ant role in the early history of the Philippines.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
14
A glance at sketch map 2 will show why Sumatre and Java could beoome
important. They were situated on a great traffic and trade route of the anoient
world.
Historians of Greece and
Rome tell of them, for at the time of the
dominance of these nations in the Mediterranean area an extensive commerce was
developing between Europe and the Orient by way of India and Melaysia. Rakish
Arab dhows, Chinese junks, and swift Malayan vinta cenoes carried rich cargoes
back and forth, and traded with the people of the local islands.
Some of the
Arabs and Chinese settlei and married with the Malayuns. From India, too, oame
numbers of Brahmins who in tine formed a ruling and priestly caste.
Besides
organizing the scattered and nix d population of parts of Sumatre und Java into
feudal states, they brought to the Malayan folk with whom they had contact their
2
religious ideas and mythology, a mowledge of syllabic writing,
and new arts
and crafts inoluding weaving, pottery-making and working bronze and some other
metals.
In the early centuries of the Christian era, this Eastern world was
shaken by a great religious struggle between older religions such as Brahminism,
and a new religion which we now know as Buddhism.
Buddhist missionuries
followed the Brahmins into Melaysia.
But there, unlike practically all other
plaoes, something of a compromise seems to heve been worked out between the two
religions. In the nu bers of the old temple ruins in Sumatra and Java, we find
Siva and Buddha together, and it appears that both religions went on more or less
side by side.
Among the Hindu-Malayan states, one called Sri-Vishaya with its capital
in what is now Palombang, Sunetra, rose to pre-eminence. This was about the fifth
century A.D., or the time the
Roman Empire was falling before the white "bar-
barians" of northern Europe.
Its doninion extended at times even to the coast
2
That is, writing based not on an alphabet but on symbols each of which
represents a syllable.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
-15
of Asia. At the height of its imperial power great temples were erected the
remains of which are th: wonder of the visitor today.
As with empires before and since, its subjeots travelled overseas to
conquer and colonize new lands. Settlements were founded on the coasts of Borneo,
and from them Malayans moved over into what were then remote and savage islands,
the Philippines. Early records and local traditions indicate how boat after boat
landed there.
. Each would be in charge of & Malayan dato or chief, perhaps of
part Hindu, Arab or Chinese blood, who would have with hin his wives, his sons and
their families, perhaps his brothers and their families, and attendant slaves.
As they settled in this and that river-mouth and spread along the coastal low-
lands, each called his own nore or less indopendent settlement a barangay,
whioh
could be translated boatload.
The earlier pooples vere not in a position to
withstand theso Maluyan folk with their metal weapons and superior culture. Some
Indonesians probably boarded canoes and moved cast in search of other lands.
Many took to the hills and remoter placos, or else grudually intermarriod with the
newoomers.
The Malayuns were clever agriculturalists, fisheriolk and artisans,
and they form the dominant element in the Filipino population today, particu-
larly in the closely settled lowlands.
By tho twelfth century, Sri-Vishaya was on tho decline. In the island
of Java a former tributary stute callcd tdjapahit rose o supremacy and estab-
lished an even greater enpire. Careful research by Dutch and other soholars
is revealing the glory of this old tinc Javanese civilization. Madjapahit was
predominantly Buduhist.
At the height of its power oven the neighboring Emperor
of China, lord of most of Asiu, could not cluim it us tributary.
But aguin, by way of India, came a strugglo of religion.
Mohammcdanism,
arising in Arabia, swept east on a tido of mission ry forvor, just as it like-
wise pushed into eastern and southern Europe, arousing the opposition of the

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
-16
Crusaders. Intorestingly enough, the Chinese, while only rarely acoepting the
faith themselves, enoouraged its spread in Malaysia.
They carried the followers
of Allah on their ships, apparently with the idea of over-throwing Madjapahit's
power. At last, in l478, the empire capital fell, and the rulers fled to the
little island of Bali. Today this picturesque place is the remaining Buddhist
stronghold in Malaysia. Sumatra, Java, and coastal Borneo became Mohammedanized
and controlled by more or less indepondent sultans.
In the Philippines, the peoplo of the Sulu archipelago and muoh of
Mindanao likewise beoame followers of the prophet, while converts were gained at
several points further north, notably around the present city of Manila. They
were organized along Mohamnedan lines, with the missionaries and their descendants
as local sultans.
. Even today the Sultan of Sulu remains supreme in religious
matters, though his carlier secular powers as a ruler have been greatly ourtailed
in recent decades. This Mohammedanization of the southern islands will be seen
as playing a most important part in subsequent Philippine history. Undoubtedly
the wholo archipelugo would in time have come under the sway of the Crescent, had
not fate introduced a new episode.
From the other side of the world, the Spaniards appeared on the scene.
The Cross was raised along with tho flag of Spain.
. The people of the northern
and central lowlands were Christianizcd, including those newly Mohammedanized.
Yet the south remained staunchly Mohammodan. Likowise the "pagans" of the
interior, whom the Spuniards largoly failed to conquor, held for the most part to
their ancestral faiths.
In the subsequent three and a half centuries, mixing has continued
among all those pooples of the Philippines. The distinctions between pygmy,
Indonesian, Malayan, and the minor strains of Hindu, Arab and oarly Chinese have
become inoreasingly blurred.
Furthormore, thore has been a constant infusion or

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-
new blood into the Filipino racial mélange.
Thousands of southern Chinese have
come into the islands to live in modern times, taking Filipino women as wives.
Japanese heve settled, too, but they have not mingled to any extent, preferring
to bring their Japanese wives and children with them. The Spaniards took
Filipino women as consorts from the first, very few white women having made the
long and perilous journoy across the world to what was then an isolated and
unhealthy frontiur. They also brought in soldiers and sailors from Mexico who
married Filipino wonen. Their recognized descendants today are often called
Macabebes.
Finally, there is u recent infiltration of American and other white
blood. Whero Filipinos have recognizuble Chinese or white racial characteristics,
they are often called mostizou or mixed blood folk.
As the generations pass,
however, the mestizos turd to marry other Filipinos and so their foreign anoestry
becomes submerged.
It is a mistake to separute out the mestizos as a very
distinct group, for sciontifically speaking the groat majority of Filipinos are
thus mixed.
Here we sce cloarly vhy the Filipinos can be spoken of as racially,
that is biologically, a people in th: making.
With every generation, a further
step is taken toward u mor: co pl te fusion.
A typical Filipino people is
emorging somewhero botweun the Nogrito of the forests and the mestizo of Manila.
Dr. H. Otloy Beyer, the reatust nuthority on the Philippine people, and head of
the department of anthropology of the University of tho Philippines, has esti-
mated that the proportions of different racial strains now represented in the
Filipinos are about as follows: Negrito and Proto-Malay, 1o per ccnt; Indonesian
30 per cent; Malayan, 40 per cont; Chinese, 10 per cent; Hindu, 5 per cent;
European and Aneriocn, 3 per cent; and Arab, 2 por oent.
The Japanese and
Mexican strains comprise small fractions.
Is this intermixture producing a vigorous people?
The population

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.97)
-18-
statistios would certainly indioate so. When the Spaniurds arrived, they re-
ported that there were about a half to threc quarters of a million people in
the islands. Today there are some thirteen million Filipinos, and they are
continuing to inorcase rapidly.
. As the study proceeds, we shall seo that this
physical vigor has been accompanied by intellectual and social achicvement so far
as opportunities have offored.
By naturo's biological laws such mingling tends to produce, at least
for a very long time, a great diversity of physical types. While we can speak
of an averago Filipino, and construct him in imagination out of the mass of the
peoplo, we must erpect to bo constantly surprised at tho vuriety in size, skin
color and physiognomy among Filipinos we meet.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.98)
-19-
CHAPTER IV
THE FILIPINOS AS THE SPANIARDS FOUND THEM
What did the first Chinose und Spanish writers tell about the Filipinos
and their country? One way in which we cun get a living picture of the people and
customs in former days is to go buck to the records of curly observors and see
the Philippines through their cyes. In this way wo shall be ublc to appreciute
better the changes that have come about in modern times.
The first authentic record of the Phili nines is found in a Cantonese
commercial documcnt d.tcd 982 A.D. This roports the arrival of an Arab ship at
Canton with a cargo of goods from "la-i," idcntified as a trade ccnter on Mindoro
Island. Students h.vc found a number of subscquent roforences in Chinese, Arab and
Hindu-Malayan records. Murco Polo sailcd past the Philippines on his journcy from
China to Europe, and no doubt some of tho names he gives of strunge islands and
people could, if we had the clues, be traced to thom. Chao Ju-kua, a Chinese
geographer of tho thirteenth century, tells how traders took porcelain, metal
objeots, silk fabrics, jewolry and other goods to the Philiprine coasts, and
brought back bees-wax, coconuts, swect potatous, fine mats, peurls, shell and other
local products.
In the Philippines today, hundr ds of spucimens of old pottery, porcelain
jars and platcs, amter, corn liun and other boads, and objucts of iron, bronzc and
gold are boing found that attest to the cxtent of this curly trude. As rivers cut
away their banks, or former villege sites and buriul laces are disoovered by
arohaeological workcrs, thuse precious rulics are coming to light from boneath the
soil of centuries.
The Chinese and rabs were the grent traders. Indeed the former
continue cven nowadays to have the commerce of  islnds largcly in their

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.97)
-20-
hands. But Japanese ships also came south to trade, and little Japanese
colonies were formed in Luzon. From China, and sometimes from India, there
came into the Philippines, besides the goods mentioned above, cotton oloth gun-
powder, ivory, metal basins and kettles, bells and gongs, and painted tapes-
tries. Japan supplied spears and other metal weapons, oloth goods, wooden
boxes, jewelry, and foods of the temperate zone. By way of Borneo were
brought jars, muts, oamphor, sugo, and human slaves. In return, the tradors
took from the Philippines tho produots mentioned earlier, also rice, Luzon
pottery-ware, animul skins, unworked gold, honoy, and rattan. Suoh commerce
was stimulated witn tho coming of the Spaniards, for thoy bought goods of all
kinds from those Aciutic treders to sond on to Europe.
It is perhaps no wonder that the native Filipinos have had a strongly
developed sonse of inlividual property rights.
.Tho carly visitors noted that
there was a loen conanerciul spirit which caused many of those in the more
advuntageous position to oxploit their fellors, kecping their debtors as
tenunts and servents, charging what by modern standards are exhorbitant rates
of interest, and in rormer days owning slaven.
The later example of the
Spaniards further stimulated them in this.
.The new rulers exaoted tribute and
foroed the Filipinos to work for them. Richer individuals were used as offi-
cials, often to extort goods und services from thoir less fortunate countrymen
for the benefit of the Spuniurds. On the other hand, the Filipino people hi
become nooustomed to leave the business of commeree almost entiroly to out-
siders.
. Cnly nowadays are they beginning to think about taking the trade of
their couatry more fully into their own hands.
Turming now to totual documents for : moro intimate pioture of eurly
Filipino lifo, we muy seloot the following quoteti ns from Spanish writors:
"The natives aro all very idle. If they would
apply themselves to work a little or the time, they

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.97)
-21-
could have all they wunted; but as it is a hot country
and they are barbariuns, they go naked. Nevertheless,
all know how to reise cotton...spin and weave...they
catoh fish...wine is mude from the palms,...also oil
and vinegar...(there are) wild boars, deer, and (water)
buffalo which thoy can kill in any desired number.
Rice... grows in ubundance. Therefore they are afflicted
by no poverty." 1
"The lunds which they inhabited were divided among
thc whole beranguy (settlement), especiully the irrigated
portion, and thus cach one knew his own. No one belonging
to another burungay could cultivate thoa unless after
purchase or inheritnncc." 2
"The nobles wore the free-born...They did not pay
tax or tributo to th dato (chief), but must aocompany
him in wer...Tho chief offered thoan beforehend a foust,
and afterward they divided the spoils...If he built a
house, they holped hi, and had to be fed for it. The
sune was truo when the whol. berangay went to clcar up
his lands for tilluge...
"The com onors...sorve their muster, whether he be
a dato or not, with half of their cultiveted lands...
They live in their own houses, and are lords of their
property and gold...
"The slaves...serve their master in his house
and on his cultivated lands, and may be sold...some
are slaves because their futhors and grandfathers were
such; others sold thumselves...either to muko use of
the money or to puy thoir debts; othors werc captured
in wur; othors bocum. sluves bocause boing orphans,
they were hold in that condition ror food and expenses;
others wore sold in timos of fumine by their fathers,
wothers, or brothers; others beer that neme because of
Jouns, for interent ultiplies rupidly...und thus a
Other racorus show thet the dato or chief usually held his position by
horeditary right. He as oustomerily tho oldest living man of the sottlement,
the head, so to speak, of un enlurged fumily anch as wo pictured arriving in boate.
1
Plair and Robertson, The Philippine Iolands, 1493-1898, A.H.Clark
Co., Clevoland, 1903-09, Vo1. IV, p. 99.
2
Idem, Vol. VII, p. 174.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
-22-
He and the other elders or "nobles" as tho Spuniards thought of them, organized
the life of their dependents, interpreted tho customary laws of the community,
and defined the punishments for those who might break them.
It seems that they
had few external symbols of their rank to distinguish them from their fellows.
This lod a number of early observers, contrary to the above quotation, to say
that the Filipincs had no "headmen or great lords" to whom they looked up. The
community system here pictured is still in full working order among most of the
pagan peoples. To a large oxtent it continues among the Christianized groups
of the lowlands.
Many writors tcll that cach district, often each village, was politi-
cally independent of tho others.
 Some groups of villages were friendly because
of marriage ties or the comon noed for defense.
Others were "warlike," con-
tinually fighting on land and sea and "considering it a grent triumph to out off
one another's heads and take captives."
Head-hunting was continued among the
pagan groups into the poried of the American occupation, and the Mohammedans
indulged in warfare and piratical raids; but tho Spanish arms brought peace to
the lowlands. A main problem of our study is to see how far al! these many
hundreds of local units, with wid differences of language and custom, have now
been welded into a unified netion.
To the Spanish mind, the Filipinos were cither Mohamnodan infidels or
superstitious pagans.
. The latter had no tomples, but they consulted anoestral
and other spirits through male or female seers.
They sacrificed pigs, dogs and
chiokens to placate the anito (spirits): and interpreted good or bad fortune from
the entrails of animals, the flight of birds, and from other manifestations of
naturo much as did the oid time Greeks. Religious ceromonies were held for
"the recovery of a sick person, the prosperous
voyago of those embarking on the sea, a good harvest,..
a propitious result in wars,  successful dolivery in

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.98)
-23~
childbirth, and a happy outcome in marriod lifo." 4
Such religious ceremonics wero accompanied by plenty of feasting, dancing and
gossip among the relatives and friends. In fact, these times provided the
year's holidays. They were equivalent to ow wuek ends, though ooming irre-
gularly oxocpt in the caso of scasonal ceremonics of agriculture. All those
religious beliefs and activities are in full swing among the pagan Filipinos
today, varying only in detail fro group to group.
. How far the Christian and
Mohammedan Filipinos ctill retain them, or havc now given then up will be seen
later.
The Filipinos, everyone agreed, were very loyel to thoir family and
kin groups, und dutiful to their clders. Right to the prosent day, this family
cooperation has beon a muin churacteristic of Filipino life. Women had a
respeoted place, though to their lot fell most of the routine of economio
activity other than the heaviest labor. At murria ge, the family of the bride-
groom had to give a dowry of valuable goods to that of the bride, partly to
compensate them for the loss of a useful workor.
In early days, apparently, tho Filipino clothing was very soanty.
It consisted of a loin-oloth or gee-string for the men and a short wrapping of
skirt for the women, with perhaps a robe pulled over the shoulder in cooler
weather and higher pl ces. But trade with China and other lands, and the
example of the traders, me de fashionable among the coastal peoples who could
afford them more laborate garments that were patterned on those of China and
India.
Wo thue see the Filipinos ut this time ns in a tr.nsitional stuge be-
tween primitive and civilized life.
The stone age had given place to an age
4
Idom, Vol. VII, p. 191.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
-24-
of metals.
Trade was bringing them into touch with the wider world.
From
India had come arts and crafts like pottery-making and weaving. By way of the
Hindu-Malayan empires, too, had come the dato system of leadership, elements
of law, weights and measures, use of the calendar, many religious and mythical
ideas, Sanscrit words, and among some at least the syllabic writing.
China had
great commeroial influence. Mohammedanism was giving a somewhat different
political system, and a religion bound around the Koran and obedience to the
sultans.
Nov, upon those, was to be super-imposed a number of revolutionary
influences coming in turn from Spain and the United States.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
CHAPTER V
VASSALS OF SPAIN
In 152l, the Spanish voyager Magellan rounded Cape Horn and, orossing the
Paoifio with his little fleet of caravels, reached the Philippines. We oannot
dwell here upon the story of European expansion into the "New World" of whioh this
was a part, nor of the rivalries between the Portuguese, Spanish, Dutoh, and later
the English and French for the rich trade of the spice islands and the Orient. By
this time, middle and south uncrica were part of the Spanish domain. It was from
there that the newly "discovered" Islas Filipinas were conquered and colonized.
Magellan lost his life when assisting in a faotion fight between warring
Filipino groups. Nearly a half century passod before Spain oooupied the islands
permanently. Then, in an almost unbolievably short timo, a small handful of
soldiers and priests led by a Spanish officer, Miguel Legaspi, acquired the sub-
mission of the great majority of the people. Most of the work of conquest was dono
by a youth twenty-two years old, Legaspi's grandson Juan de Salcedo, who with forty-
five men in his command ranged a large part of Luzon compelling the soattered
Filipino settlements to yield allegiance. It was this laok of wider political
unities that made the Spanish task so casy.
Legaspi soon cstablished his capital at the busy trading port of Manila.
A fortress was built there, and expeditions moved over the country organizing the
distriots, collooting tribute, conoentrating soattered families and isolated
barangays into larger units to which the name barrio was applied, and building
ohurohes that bocame community conters as the pooplo were Christianized. Within a
quarter century of Legaspi's arrival, only the Mohammedans of the south and the
pagans of the wild interior remained independent and unconverted.
Yet Spain's hold on the Philippines was for many years precarious. Her

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
rivalries with the other European powers, the Portuguese, Dutoh and English brought
a succession of open clashes. In 1762, indeed, the English captured the
Philippines and held them for two years until they wore restored by the Troaty of
Paris: tho same treaty that transferred Canada from France to England. This
English occupation of the islands is considered important by historians as showing
to the Filipinos that their Spanish conquerors were not invinoible.
Spain, too, had to contend with the Chinose and Japanese for possession
of the islands. Chinese pirutes even attacked the Manila fortress. At one time
thousands of Chinese who had settled around Manilu revolted, and on this and
several other occasions fear of the rising power of the Chinese oaused them to be
massaored in great numbers by the Spaniards and their Filipino adherents. The
Japanese had small settlemonts in tho islands when Spain took control. In 1582 a
Spanish force expolled a Japaneso war expedition fron north Luzon. Yet ten years
later they thought it wisc to send a tribute in the form of gifts to Japan when
this was domanded by the great shogun Hideyoshi. Had the Japanese at this timo
moved at ull vigorously with their aprarent plans to conquer the Philippines, the
history of the islands might possibly have been different. But shortly after this
the Dutoh occupied Formosa, and Jarun, expelling all Christian missionaries, shut
her doors upon the outsido world: an exclusion that was to last for two centuries.
Yet Spain's chief difficulties cume from the Filipinos thomselves. More
than thirty revolts took plaoc among the Christianized lowlanders during the
Spanish poriod. Theso showed the exasperation of the people at having to pay heavy
tributes or taxes in the form of goods and labor services, at government monopolies
of commerce, and at domination either by looal panish officials or by the ohurch.
From the deeper jungles and mountains, too, the pugans sullied forth on headhunting
raids. Expeditions of whito or lowland soldiers had little success in subduing
these people, for they did not know tho country and travel there was very diffioult.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
Not until the last fifty years of their rule were the Spanish forces able to build
trails and forts, and establish military control to any extent in these interior
places. But their greatest trouble came from the Mohammedans of the southern
islands.
It was a strange trick of fate that the Spanish, having barely succeeded in
expelling the Mohammedan Moors from their own home nation in Europe, pushing these
fierce warriors back into Africa, should find themselves face to face with
Mohammedanism in their  w colony on the opposito sid: of the world. To the
Filipino Mohammedans they applied the name Moorr, or oros. They are called by the
latter name today. The Moros, led by their sultans, were encouraged by the Dutch
in Java and Borneo to attack the Spaniards, and this they did fiercely. Their
swift vinta canoes raided the Christian coasts right to the walls of Manila itself.
Several times the Spenish forces socurod a foothold in Moro country but had to with-
draw again. Not until war vessels of iron, using stcam, wero able to patrol the
southern waters were they brought to some extent under control. It remained for the
Amerioans, led by men like Generals Wood and Pershing, to pacify them and make
possible the establishment among them of civil rule. Even today, from time to time,
small groups of Moros under the spell of rel:gious fronzy defy the constabulary
and, hiding in somo well-placcd cotta or fortification, resist to the death its
capture by thc Christians.
We have to picture the Philippines in the earlier centuries as a distant
colonial outpost controlled by a few hundred Spanish officials, soldiers, priests
and traders. For most of the time it was ruled from Mexico. Once the first glory
of conquest and Christianization was over, there came a period of decline. Becausc
of Spanish trade monopolies, Manila lost its place us one of the great centers of
the traf:fic of Asia. Quarrels developed between the civil and ecclesiastioal
authorities. Various religious ordors, Dominicans, Frenciscans, Augustinians and

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
-28-
others, which had sent workers to the islands under the impulse of missionary
fervor, aoquired rioh holdings of land and waxed fut ut the expense of the
Filipinos. Indecd, the "friars" as their members were called beoame in large
degree the rulers of the country. Today, in tho rural districts of the Philippines,
the huge fortress-like churches they built can be found, sometimes as overgrown
ruins. The Spanish offioials filling tho posts of central and provincial government
depended lurgely upon the friars to se that the local native officials carried out
their appointed tasks  that order was u intainel and taxes wore colleoted in
the barrios (villages).
Historions differ in thcir cmphasis uyon the good and bad points of this
church influence. On the one hand, the religious orders built universities, sohools,
and hospitals in Manila. One such university, Santo Tomas, was established in
16ll, that is a quarter century before the founding of Harvard, the oldest of
Amerioan universities, an! still continues in existenoe. In the rural barrios, too,
the church with its rituals, festivals, and elementury religious schools, became the
center of community life. From time to time, individuel members of the orders
showed high courage in penetrating the pugan wildcrness to make converts, and to
study the people.
On the other lu", many or the friurs were ignorant and domineering men
of lax conduct. Al. were from So in, und Filininos were admitted only to sub-
ordinate positions in the churoh. Where in Europe, the Catholio faith developed
along more modern and liberal lines, in the Philippines it remained shrouded in
medicvalism, und this reflected into both roli ious an! seculur teaohing. Church-
men seemed interested in cnhancing their power rather than in treining the Filipinos
in oitizenship. Long before the United States too! over, both town and country
beoame honeycombcd with native roligious sects and scoret societies that were
opposed to the church. And months bofore Dewey entered Manile Bay, the lowland

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
Filipinos rose up practically everywhere, destroying churches and killing the
friars or driving them in flight to Manila.
Early in the nineteenth century, Spain lost her main American colonies.
The Philippines came to be ruled directly from Madrid. Revolutionary changes were
taking place in the wider world: ideas of liberty and democracy were abroad,
inventions were reducing ocean distances and enabling rapid communioation to be
established between far lands, industrialization stimulated commerce and economic
development. The cutting of the Suez Canal trought the Philippines far nearer to
Europe.
Spain, perhaps the most conservative of European nations, could not
escape these influences. In 1837 the port of Manila was opened to foreign trade.
The rioh resources of the islands began to be developed. Population increased
rapidly, and the standards of living of the people rose, in spite of continued
Spanish exactions. Pagans and Moros felt the weight of Spanish arms. Under
pressure of a growing Filipino nationalism and publio opinion, emphasized by dis-
content and rebellion, the form of government became slightly more liberal. Numbers
of Filipinos, especially mestizos from around Manila, went to America and Europe to
get the broad and practical eduoation that the Spanish would not provide. Returning,
they beoame leaders of the Filipino people. Their writings and the movements of
reform they espoused were regarded by the authorities as threatening to Spanish
rule, and active measures were taken to suppress these. In 1896 began a final
break between the Filipinos and Spain, of which more in the next seotion. Had the
Spanish-American war not taken place, Manila itsclf might in time have fallen before
the Filipino "insurgents," who had the city already fairly well ringed in. The
Philippines might thus have had an carlier experience of independence.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
CHAPTER VI
THE SPANISH HERITAGE IN THE PHILIPPINES
The Filipinos of today still bear profoundly the marks of these centuries
of Spanish domination. To a person who did not know this phase of the island
history, muoh of Filipino life and charaoteristios would be incomprehensible.
Away in the future, historians will probably write that Spain's great
contribution to the Filipinos was one she had no intention of giving. The Spaniards
assumed control of a host of pctty independont groups. They left a unified nation
well on towards the making. In spite of their polioics of keeping the Indios in
peaceful subjoeotion, the inevitable fruits of thoir presonoc in the islands and of
their exactions was to weld the population more and more into a whole. By opening
up the country, they made the looal dwellers aware of one another. Oppression gave
a sense of common grievanoc. Discontent emerged into patriotic organization.
Pressure from above formed an inoreasingly solid native body politio beneath. It
is, of course, un old story in the process of human development - seemingly
nature's main way of nation building. But in the Philippines it is of special
signifioanoe because of the varieties of races and cultures that existed there.
Spain also contributed in a more positivc way cloments from hor own rich
heritage of the past. An educated or illustrado class emerged among the Filipinos,
ospeoially among the rich land-owning groups around Menila many of whom were of
part Spanish or Chinese blood. These learnt the Spanish language, and adopted the
living habits, courtesies, and artistio traditions of the ruling people. They built
spaoious houses in the European style, and surroundod thomsclves with such
luxurics as the islands permitted, patronized music, the opera and other arts, sent
their ohildren to the local universities or even abroad, and generally freed them-
selves from both the old Malayan backgrounds and the modievalism of less educated

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
-31-
Spaniards.
Today, after three and a half decades of imerican influence, this olass
is still well represented around the oities. They consider thomselves, in the
words of one writer, "tho suocessors to the Spanish horitago" in the islands.
Numbers of thc older generation cannot speak English. Spanish is still adhered to
widely as the language of social courtesies; it is also used as a co-language with
English in the law courts and tho lcgislaturo.
Unfortunately, this rise of un illustrudo group in Sncnish times was made
possible largoly by the greater toil and roverty of the masses. The Spanish
administrators used the chiefs and heads of familius as local offioials, without
safeguards to soe that they did not abusc their authority over their fellows.
Copying thoir new masters, many accumulated land and wealth, at the same time
reducing those less fortunato to thc position of depondents, tenants, or virtual
slaves. With passing gencrations, there doveloped what is known as a caoique class,
comprising wealthy landowners. These are still powerful in tho modern Philippines.
Numbers of the cacique familics continued to fcel res onsible for the well-being
and happiness of their feudal followers, just as had the Malayan datos. But many
set aside the dutics prescribed by tho old oustoms of leadcrship. Through their
stewards they exactod the utmost of work and goods. This has brought caciquism
into great disrepute. As the cucique could comnand the law-courts, and in American
days cacique opinion has tondod to cominato in the lcgislature, the lot of many
ordinary folk, the tao class as they aro called, has been very unfortunate. On the
other hand, wo cannot condemn all cociguism offhand, as many observors tend to do.
As based on an old Malayan syste of socicty it hus hud its uses, and under the
best ciroumstanoes may still work well. The good cacique is muoh like the good
owner or manager who organizcs a modern business. But caciquism, as we shall see,
is peculiarly liable to abuse.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
Spanish influences upon the Filipinos other than mombers of these speoial
groups have also becn considerable. Though they oan raroly speak the Spanish
languago, many Spanish words have been taken into their local dialeots. Today, for
example, the heads of Philippine municipalities are called presidentes and the
locul government office a presidenoia; a lawyer is an abocado; Filipinos have such
names as Juan, Miguel, Maria, and Conohita; and so it goes through many phases of
life. The predominant influence of the church in the oommunity has been mentioned.
Every Christian villago is laid out with a plaza or ccntral place. The folk songs,
danoing, and theatrioals show Spanish influenco strongly, while the guitar has
become the main musioal instrument.
Many observers remark on the politeness and hospitality of the Filipinos,
and attribute thoso to the Spanish exumple. Such traits, however, seem to be
oqually characteristic of the old Malayan and Indonesian society. It is suggested,
too, that Filipinos have been influenced by the Spuniards towards being romantic,
temperamental, hotheaded in love, and ready to use a knifo in a quarrel. It has
to be remembered that all Filipinos do not show those characteristios. But to the
extent to which they do, they may be traced alternatively to the fact that Malayan
sooial and moral standards were very different from those imposed quite drastically
by the Christian church. The conflicts, restraints and inhibitions resulting from
this havo tended to mako many Fili inos unstable in regurd to suoh matters.
A Filipino soholar once wrote thut, in deuling with his fellow countrymen,
the Sraniards had turned "un active and enterprisin: infidel" into a "lazy and
indolent Christian." Since any man who worked extre hard would almost inevitably
have the products of his labor confiscated, tho peoplo carried on only a minimum of
industry. Again, the example of their white rulers indioated that a mark of being
superior was not to engugo in manual labor but to live on the work of others, to
show a spirit of dolce far niente. The tradition that prestige and importance lay

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
-33-
with the person who did not condescend to use his hands has oarried over to the
present. Indeed, Americun educational ideals have done little to counter it. In
an agricultural country like the Philippines, this striving of the young people for
an offioial or white oollar job is bringing about much difficulty.
We have spoken here of the ohanges that came about through Spanish
influenoe. But emong the mass of Filipinos there was also strong resistance to
change. As the study proceeds, we shall see how u great many old Indo-Malayan
oustoms and ideas have been preserved to the prosent day, ospecially in family and
village life. In the face of exactions and pressure by the domineering Castila,
many people clung consorvatively to their old ways and were suspicious of anything
new. Some actually fled into the jungles and mountains to csoape tho alien control.
Such folk were called remontados, or people who took to tho hills, and they usually
reverted from Christianity to the older belicfs. In the ranges back of Manila there
are still scaitered groups of remontados, more than three thousand in all, who
Others
beoame ladrones (brigands) or pirates, robbing the Spaniurds and the wealthy class.
The folk-tales about some of these robbers remind one of Robin Hood. On a number of
occasions large bodies of peasants rose in revolt against economic oppression.
Amid such difficult circunstances, many people seem to have turned for
solace to the churoh, finding their recompensc for the bitterness of this life in a
spirit of pious resignation and in promiscs of happiness in the life to come. The
Filipino peasant is usually a very religious person. Many Filipinos, however,
renounoed the Catholio faith to follow religious prophets among their own people.
These often promised as the rosult of spirit visions that the Spaniards would be
driven out, gave magio amulets to their adherents, and preached a doctrine that
combined ideas of Christianity with the old Malayun beliefs. Some led their forvent
followers against the soldiers of Spain. Along with religious sects, various kinds
1
See N. V. Gatchalian, "The Non-Christian Tagalogs of Rizal Province," in the
Philippine Magazine, August, 1934.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
-34-
of seoret sooieties and lodges flourished.
In the ninetcenth century, some of those movements against the Spanish
system assumed a political character. Lod by cducated Filipinos, they demanded
reforms in the mothod of government. A sense of cornon nationhood was fostered, for
the most part in secret at home, and by patriotio writings of Filipinos abroad. In
1872, a revolt broke out. But the Spaniards suppressed it as they had all others
before, some prominent leaders being exocuted, imprisoned or deported. Yet this
only fanned the flumes. "Subvorsive idoas," or us opposition to Spain came to bo
called, filibusterismo, sproad wi dely in the lowland towns and provinces; from this
comes the well kmown politicel term "filibuster."
The greatest among a number of prominent Filipinos emerging at this time
was Jose Rizal y Mercado, who has become the national hero of the Philippinos. Rizal
studied and travelcd in several European countrius. A doctor of medicine, he was
also a brilliant ccholar in many fields of knowledge, a writer and an artist, and a
gentle and sensitive personality. Two political novels writton by him in Spanish,
and since published in English under the namcs "The Social Cancer" and "The Reign
of Greed" are well worth reading. Thoy reveal xeellently the Filipino life of the
time, and the ovils of the Spanish syston. Anong many ruvolutionary sentiments put
into the mouth of his charaoters are such statements as:
"Resignation is not always a virtuc; it is a crime when it encourags
tyrants: there ure no despots where there are no slaves!"
"Instead of subordinute thoughts think independently...and sooner
or later you will have your liberty."
"A peoplc tyrannized over is forood to bo hypocritical."
"When a people is denied right, home, liberty, justice - things that
are essential to life and therefore man's putrimony - thut people has the
right to troat him who so dospoils it us we would the robber who intercopts
us on the public highway."
Suoh sentiments produccd unger among the conservative Spenish officials and

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
-35-
religious orders. Seeing Rizal as a dangerous influence they sent him into exile,
and later imprisoned him. Finally, on December 30, 1896, a day whioh every Filipino
commemorates annually, he was executed. During his last hours of life he penned a
farewell poem. A Filipino has translated it into English, and from its fourteen
stanzas oome the following:
"Farewell, dear isles beloved of sea and sky,
Where once we envisioned the gleam of Paradise,
For your dear sake it seems divine to die,
And were life fresher, brighter still would I
Walk smiling onward to the sacrifice.
"The dreams which fenoy to my childhood gave,
My darling dreams when into youth I came,
Were to behold you, Poarl of the Orient wave,
One day with dark eyes clear, the brow held grave
Aloft, unfurrowed, frce at last from shame.
"Dream of my life, my burning, living desire,
Hearken my soul to you at parting cry.
Hail, my country! how lovely 'tis to expire,
To die that you may live a life yot higher,
The dead to slumber underneath your sky.
"Farewell, dear parents of my spirit part,
Dear comrades in the land loved best, farewell
Give thanks that I from living will depart.
Goodbye; sweot stranger, friend and joy of heart;
When such classics of liberty appear in Filipino literature, and they have
been reinforced by American sentiments of liberty taught in the sohool histories
for threo decades, can it be wondered at that the Filipinos cherish tho idea of
independence?
Rizal's death was a signal for new revolts that quickly assumed the form
of a revolution. The Spaniards in the rural distriots retired to Manila, and a
separate Filipino government was organized under Emilio guinaldo who became general
2 Translated by Luis G. Dato, in the Philippine Magazine, January 1934.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
-36-
of the insurgent foroes. With him as adviser was hpolinario Mabini, a man handi-
oapped by paralysis but with so keen a mind that he is often spoken of as "the
brains of the revolution." After negotiations in which a new Spanish governor-
general proposed political and religious reforms, a temporary peace was made and the
Filipino leaders were paid a sum to leave the country. There seems to have been
bad faith on both sides, nd hostilities flared again. Amid these ciroumstances,
war was deolared betwcen Spain and the United States, changing the situation
oompletely.
The Spanish regime thus loaves a deep impress. Many elements of Spanish
oulture have played an inportant part in the making of the Filipinos, and some will
no doubt remain as a pcrmunont part of their heritage. The Spanish mestizos,
espeoially, carry on the traditions that come from their white side. Again, where
today we find individual Filipinos showing characteristios of being highly strung,
suspioious of strangers, exoiteble, easily influenced, or timid we can well believe
that these reflect the prolonged instability and oppression of Spanish days, and
of the cacique system (page 31) that still flourishes. Indolence, freedom from care,
simple mindedness, and cr dulity roflect the economic and educational policies of
Spain. Assertiveness, vanity, love of bright colors, exaggorated romanticism or
mysticism represent means of cmotional escape amid hard ciroumstances. Such traits
are not, as some observers have stated, an inevitable part of the Filipino make-up.
Rather, they can be explained in terms of history. The pagan Filipino does not
show them in any marked degree, nor does the educated Filinino who has had under
Amerioan wardship the opportunities which the Spaniards denicd. In the case of the
Filipino people, as with others, we must be oaroful about saying that any such
oharaoteristics, good or bad, aro inborn; rather wo must look to see how far they
can be accounted for in tcrms of culture or experience.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
-37-
CHAPTER VII
ENTER UNCLE SAM
"War has commenoed betwoen the United Statos and Spain. Proceed at
once to Philippine Islands. Commence operations partioularly against the
Spanish fleet. You must capture vessels or destroy. Use utmost endeavor."
Such was a cablegram that reached Admiral Dewey, commodore of the American
squadron of six ships in China waters. Sailing from Hongkong to Manila, it took
him only a few hours of fighting - on May 1, 1898 - to cripple the Spanish fleet of
seven ships and silcnce the defenoes of the city.
But it required more than three years of fighting by United States troops
to get all the Filipinos to settle down to merican rule. aguinaldo and other
leaders oooperated with the Americans at first in bringing to an ond the hold of
Spain in the islands. Then, on their own initiative, they organized an independent
"Republio of the Philippinos." In ugust 1898, Manila, which had become ringod by
a Filipino army, was occupied by American troops despatohed from San Franoisoo. 
confliot arose botwoen the leaders of the new "Republio" and the United States
representatives, as to whether the Filipinos were ready for independence.
"It was felt in america, and with reason, that this Filipino govern-
ment was not yet representative of all the people in the Philippines,
that the Filipino leaders were untried men, and that the people themselves
had not had political training and cxperienoe."1
By the treaty of Puris, Spain ccded the Philippine Islands to the United
States, accepting a paymont of twenty million dollars gold us compensation for the
publio works and improvements she had made. The Filipinos represented in the
"independent" government thought of themselves as merely being passed from one
tyrant to another. The libercl sontiments expressed by the american leaders who
demanded recognition of United States sovereignty wore doubted. On Fobruary 4,
1 D. P. Barrows, History of the Philippines, (see bibliography) p. 267.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.98)
-38-
1899, the first shot was fired in a Filipino-merioan war.
As may be expected, the Filipino and the Amerioan stories concerning the
events of this time differ greatly. Thousands of Filipinos threw themselves against
the bullets and bayonets of grim American army volunteers. Even bands of head-
hunters were persuaded to come from their mountain fastnesses, though members of
these expeditions tell today with chucklos how when they heard the guns of the
Amerioanos they headed for home on the run. But to the Unitcd States commissions
and othor representatives who ceme to investigato Philippine conditions, the fervor
of battle displayed by the puople was by no meuns an indication that they undorstood
or were roady for the indenund nee that formed their slogan. In American eyes, it
was a movement of an intellectual minority who, sinoerely enough, had aroused the
ignorant masses. They cnvisioned a period of United Statos wurdship during which
the people as a whole should be unlightencd by cducation, placed on a sound
economic footing, nolitio lly unified, and imbued with the principles of democracy.
This would bring reul indepondence, instend of merely passing the Filipinos from
the domination of Spain to that of a small group of thcir own countrymen. To quote
a commission report:
"The United States cnmot withdraw from the Philippines. We are
there and duty binds us to remuin. Thore is no esoupe from our responsi-
bility to the Filipinos und to ankind for the overnment of the archi-
pelugo and tl. melioration of the condition o its inhabitants."2
The American troops gruduelly occupi the lisuffected areas. Aguinaldo
fled to the mountains, where his hiding-place was finally disoovered. In due cours,
he and other leuders acknowlodged their allogianoo to the United States. Though
guerilla wurfure and bun litry continued for many months, and bluck looks greeted
the Americanos in some districts for years, the islands wore considered sufficicntly
2 Roport of the Philippine Conmission, 1900, Washington, Vo1. i, p. 121.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
-39-
pacified by l90l to justify a transfer from military to civil rule.
Now began an experiment rather unique in colonial history. Shiploads of
sohool-teachers from the United States started work over the Philippines, using
English as the medium of instruction and laying the emphasis upon good oitizenship.
Before long, a body of Filipino teachers were trained who to a large extent took
their place. Engineers cut roads that opened up remote distriots, bringing the local
communities far more into touch with one another and the capital, Manila. Health
work, barely attempted by the Spaniards, was initiuted with vigor, and small-pox,
bubonio plague, cholera, malaria and other diseases that sapped the strength of the
Filipinos and took toll of American lives during the campaigns were inoreasingly
brought under oontrol. Freedom of religious worship was guaranteed. An arrangement
was made by which the lands of the friars were bought on behalf of the Philippine
government, and largely reallotted to Filipino farmers.
As would be cxpected, the commeroial development of the islands proceeded
apace. The finances of government were organized so that from the first the
Philippines have been practically self-supporting. From 1909 on, tariff laws were
framed through whioh Philippine goods came to have free entry to American markets
and vice versa. The cconomio life of the islands became closely woven with that of
the United States, and trade with other countries dwindled.
The great city of Manila, with its four hundred thousand residents, the
expanding industries of growing sugar, hemp, coconuts and other products suited to
suoh a tropical land, the extensive services of modern government, the rising
standards of life that are relieving the ordinary Filipino people more and more from
the drudgery and poverty of the Spanish period - all these have been built upon the
decision of the Imerican congruss and people to open the doors of trade. Today,
those doors are being closed. Many Americans are disolaiming responsibility for
the situation thus oreated: perhaps even advocating independence in order to

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
-40-
relieve themselves of competition from Philippine goods. The meaning of this for
the Filipinos of today will be seen in due course.
But the great emphasis of merican administrators has been upon political
cducation, the building of u sclf-governing nation. as rapidly as possible, too
rapidly some have said, the authority of local and contral government wus trans-
ferred into the hunds of Filipinos. In plaoe of the old Hispano-Malayan forms of
authority, ccntering around tho municipal and villuge officials who were also usually
rioh caciques or under control by the cuciques, the succcssive American governor-
generals tried to build a domocractio systom in which cven tho humblo tao or
commoner would have his vote. The lawcourts, too, were reformed with the aim of
providing justice for all.
At first the Philippines wore governed by a Commission of prominont
Americans. Before long, somo Filipinos were appointed to this body, also as judges
in the courts along with white judges. In 1907, the Philippine Commission bocame an
upper legislative body, with an clected Filipino assembly as a lower house. The
peoplo in the differont districts werc also allowed to cleot ty ballot most of their
own local officials, excpt in somc of thc lcss civilizod places.
From the beginning, the mericans took a great interost in the pagan and
Mohammedan peoples who had resisted the Spanish yoke. They realized that a separate
system of government had to be created for them, upart from the Christian Filipinos.
The pagan folk on the whole welconed the mericuns as being just in their idministra-
tion and respectful of ancestral customs. Before long, heudhunting wes suppressed.
Roads and trails were cut here and there through mountain and jungle, the young
people were soon luarning in the schools tbout the vast world outside, end Christian

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
-41-
It would not do to remove the constabulary yet in these distriots, as old
feuds between some of the villages remain. But the people travel unarmed through
the territories of former enemies, pay taxes, buy goods that thoy did not have
before, refer their quarrels to the government representatives. These are now
nearly all Christian Filipinos or persons from among the local groups themselves.
The more advanood non-Christian communities elect their district offioials much as
do the Christians.
The Mohammedan Moros of the south also submitted to the pax Americana,
though after gruater resistanoe. Slavery and piracy wcre diffioult to abolish. Some
distriots remained turbulent for muny years, and roligious beliefs stood in the way
of seoular reforms such as the Americans hoped to make. In time, however, confidenoc
was established, and slowly but surely this is spreading to replace the formerly
bitter relationships between Moro and Christian Filipinos.
Taking up the political story once more, we must note a radical change in
the system of governmont from 1913 on. Until then, what is often spoken of as the
"Tuft policy" was carried out. It stood for a gradual transfer of authority to the
Filipinos as education and other beneficiel activities were considered to have
propared them for it. In the year mentioned, the Republican party in the United
States lost to the Democrats. The Philippine policy of the latter party was to place
far more powers of self-government into the hands of the Filipinos. From thi. time
forward, Philippine affairs beoame closely bound up with United States politics.
Folicies swung from liberal to conservative acoording to whether the Democrntic or
Republican parties dominatod in Wushington. This has made for uncertainty, and has
exasperated many Filipinos.
3 The term "non-Christian" is thus becoming something of a misnomer. We can take it
from henceforth as having a politioal significance rather than necessarily a
religious one. It refers to those peoplo who are governed under the spe cial
administrative system for backward peoples.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
-42-
In the eight years of Demooratic power to 1920, Americans in official and
teaching positions were replaced almost entirely by Filipinos. In l9l6, Congress
passed a well kmown act called the Jones Law. This gave a promise of independence
to come, and put the law-making power into the hands of a Filipino legislature,
subject only to a veto by the American governor-general from which there could be an
appeal to the President of the United States. The legislature oomprised a Senate
and a House of Representatives whioh still exist. Their members are eleoted by
popular male vote from the different districts. An exception to this is provided
in the oase of certain members representing the non-Christian (pagan and Moro)
distriots. These are appointed diroctly by the govornor-general.
The politioal authority thus placed into the hands of the Filipinos, we
shall see, was augmented through further concessions by the governor-general of the
time. In 1920, the Republicuns oame into power once more at Washington. A
commission sent by the President reported to him that the Filipinos were not yet
ready to bear the responsibilitios allowed to them.4 Under subsequent Republican
governor-generals the powers of Filipinos in the government were to an extent
ourtailed.
This aroused greut resentment among the Filipino leaders. Missions cume to
the United States pressing for immediate indupendence. Deadlocks occurred in offi-
oial business because the legislature would not defer to the wishes of the governor.
general, while he would veto numbers of bills put forward. Amerioan business
concerns were dubious about investing in the islands beoause of the prevailing un-
certainty. Several books and articles were published whioh gave a projudioed and
5
exaggerted picture of Philippine conditions, and the Filipinos resented this.
Report of a Special Mission to the Philippine Islands (Wood-Forbes roport),
Manila and Washington, 1921.
5
As, for example, a book by Katherine Mayo, called Isles of Fear. A Filipino
coming into Amerioa with a flair for the sensational and judging what he sees by
Filipino ideas as to what is good or bad, could no doubt paint a picture equally
dark.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
-43-
With the passing years, rolations becemo less strained. The later
Republioan governor-generals were conoiliatory, even if they made no direct moves
on the independenoe issue. Then came the world depression. The markets for tropi-
cal products such as the Philippines supplied were glutted, and the various
countries orected high tariff barriers. The international soene became troubled,
especially in the Orient. Thinking Filipinos saw Manchukuo emerge, and recalled
with some approhension that Japanese intcrests werc well entrenched in their islands.
American army and navy experts asserted that the Philippines wus a liability to
the Unitod States rather than a strategio usset. A growing tide of opinion in
Amerioa supported the constantly reiteratcd requests of the Filipino political
leaders for freedom. Bills came before Congress, arousing controversies both in
Washington and the Philippincs.
Amid this complex situation, the Democratic party once more took tho helm.
On Maroh 24, 1934, & bill known as the Tydings-MoDuffie Act was passed by Congress,
providing for independence after a transitional period of ten years, and this was
accepted by the Filinino ropresentatives. A convention of more than two hundred
Filipino delegates from all parts of the islands has recently assembled in Manila
to draw up a constitution for the Philippines during this time, to bo presented to
the President of tho United Stutes for approval.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
-44
CHAPTER VIII
A LAND OF CONTRASTS
The Philippine Islands today are indeed e place of contrasts. Our boat
from America steams into Manila Bay past Mariveles Mountain, a verdant sentinel that
is still a home for pygmy Negrito folk. Corrigidor, grim island fortress of Uncle
Sam, lets us vast its guns. Upon the low coast that stretches away to distant
mountains, the white docks and buildings of Manila take form.
Vessels from the soven seas are tied at the busy piers. Ashore, we have
the ohoice of modern utomobiles or older fashioned horso-drawn cabs. Leaving the
waterfront by way of wide concrete roads, und dodging clectrio street-ours and here
and there a slow moving cart drawn by a. carabao (wuter buffalo), wc oome to the
ramparts of the historic walled section of the city. Prostol Wo enter a picturesque
oorner of old Europe invadod, so to speak, by the changing Orient.
 maze of narrow streuts with Spanish names thread this part of Manila.
The houses join side to side, with barred windows, overhanging second stories, and
stone-flagged courtyards. mong them are many churches und monasteries, also
government bureaus, colleges, hospitals, small stores and restaurants. In the vuried
throng thut passes leisuroly along, or lolls and gossips, are sedate monks in their
lengthy oassocks; y uths with fighting-cocks tucked under their arms or held boak to
beak in order to rouse their snirit; students with books and papors; American "gobs"
on shore leave; dapper Filipino officials in tailored clothes; Chinese with eyes
agleam for a customer; and tourists fingering their guidebooks or buying souvenirs.
Outside the bastioned walls, the foundations of which were laid by Legaspi,
stretoh grassy parks and flower gurdons. What before was the moat is now a sports
ground of greensward. Wide boulevards are traversed, and great modern buildings in
western classioal styles appear, attesting to the handiwork and teaching of american

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
-45-
engineers and arohitects. Passing the columned legislature, publio library, and
postoffice, we cross a bridge over the Pasig River and plunge again into narrow
streets and a jam of traffio.
Once more we are in an older part of Manila, though not quite so old as
the walled city. Here is the Luneta, the main business street. Its climbing sky-
sorapers house modern stores and offices. Baok of it a block starts a honeycomb of
streets and cllcyways wh re live, work, buy and sell the great mass of the city's
thousands, Filipino and Chinese. In there, if wc have a guide, we can find huge
markets selling cloth stuffs, slinpers, baskots, huts, pottery-wure, salt, books in
the native dialucts, fruit, vegetublus, meut, fish, und other products. We oan see
tobacco made into cigars by xpert hands, fine metal working, carving of religious
figures from life sizo to small amulets beloved of the Catholic Filipino, and other
skilled orofts under way in tho little open shops. Movie houses and cabarets ere
there aplcnty. And in the plazas that front the numcrous time-worn churches may be
fairs where the devout cen combine their worship with somc cheap purchases or games
of chanoe, or else make sure of their luck by buying some magic native charms that
will back up the power of the candles burnt before the altar. Away out, at last,
the stone and wood homes yicld place to brown huaboo huts on stilts. Open rice
fields appoar between the clusterud suburban settloments. The town becomes the
country.
Let us save the fare of a tuxi by climbing aboard one of the autobuses that
ply along the main roads. We may touch at a coastal village. Bamboo huts form the
homes of most of the population. They stand among coconut palms and other useful
trees, and have a banboo fencc around to keep domestic animals from roaming.
Several houses are more clubor te, perhaps of sawn wood with shingle or iron roofing.
They belong to the rich folk, owners of the fishing boats and gear. A plaza forms

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
-46~
the center of the barrio. Facing on to it ure a half ruined church still in use, a
trim sohoolhouse, a government office, soveral Chineso stores, and a little market
in whioh the folk buy und sell, espeoially of a Sunday. Nets are hanging up to dry.
Shallow troughs are filled with seawater from which the sun draws out the moisture
leaving gleaming white salt crystals to be oollcoted and usod or sold. Some large
canoos with outriggers are pulled up on the beach, or sail out to tho fishing
grounds. Pigs and ohickens are nosing along the shore, for all garbago is disposed
of there. With much chocrful jabbering in the local dialect, soveral ladies climb
from the bus, distributin; their town purohases into the hands of the children who
swarm around. In the Philippines, as a survival of an older division of labor
between men and women, it is tho wife who holds the purse strings and more or less
organizes the ccononic lifo of the household. A mon who failed to turn in his
carnings to her would be ridiculed by his community.
We now turn inland through the rice ficlds. These look like a great
checkerboard. Here and thcre ure rolling hills left uncultivated, hence clothed in
tropio growth; but othorwise the countryside is donsely settled, as witnoss the
close succession of barrios. We se the luborer thich deep in the fertile ooze,
plowing bohind his carabao, or along with his wholc family, transplanting from the
seedbeds. At a lator seuson they will be cutting stalk by stalk the golden harvest,
with their neighbors lending a hand. Somo may have their little huts in the fields,
where they live at least during planting and harvesting. But here in this older
settled country it is more usual for the people to live in the barrios oven though
they have to go far afield to their work. The barrios are much alike in goneral
appearanco, though they vary in size from small hamlets to large towns. Subtraot
the nets, salt pans, and boats from the fishing village, and put rice ficlds ruther
than these as the source of wealth among the rich men, and our curlior desoription

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.98)
-47-
wi11 do.
Fellow passen ers may now catoh our attention awhile. One up front with
the driver is in a smart khaki uniform. He is a member of tho Philippine constabu-
lary, a highly efficient foroe trained by mericans but with an almost entirely
Filipino personnel. It is the backbone of law and order in the islands. another
passenger is dressed in a neat white suit. His folio case indicates that he is some
kind of government official - perhaps an agrioultural inspector or a sohool teaoher.
A youth similarily curled is evidently a student on his way home. He has the airs
of Manila, or may ven bo unsvering vociferous questions about some of his
advonturings overscas in the United States. The rest of the people, coming and going
as the stops are made, are obviously peasant folk. The men are dressed in cotton
trousers and bright colored shirts not tucked in at the waist but worn loose like
the old European smock. The women have puffed gauzy sleeves, and full skirts that
are hitched up at one side to show gay undcrskirts. Some are barefoot, while others
have chinelas (slippers). Both men and women may puff cigars. Piled on the bus
there will surely bo a pig, somo chickens with legs tied, vegetables, and other
goods that the passongers arc taking to the market, or as a present for the wedding.
birthday, or christening feast among the relatives whom they are visiting. Someone,
too, will havc a fighting rooster.
Now we enter a barrio where the people are in festive mood. The fields
are deserted, and cveryone woars nis best olothes. It is probably the annual
fiesta of the villago patron saint. We are sure of a courteous and hospitable
weloome should we docide to stay over. In the morning a solemn procession winds
through the stroets. It is led by the Filipino priest, accompanied by his choir
and bearers of sacred objeots. The prinoipalia or chief mon of the community may
follow, also tho school children, perhaps a boy soout troop, and all the devout.
After the patron has boen thus invoked to bless another year, thore is visiting and

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
-48-
feasting. The cockpit is crowded with eager gamblers. Then, perhaps to our great
surprise, everyone throngs to an open field where amid enthusiasm the looal baseball
team pits its skill against that of a neighboring barrio. Volley ball is also in
favor among the sohoolboys, and boxing and ping-pong enlist their following. As
evening fells, dancing and musio may be in order. The older folk-dances are
perhaps interspersed with modern dances to the music of a jes orohestra or a
viotrola. Itinerant musicians and players, or members of the community itself,
entertain with favorite verses and simple theatrioals. Old stories that come down
from the ancestors are told with gusto, and aprlauded with never failing interest.
Native wine makes the elders garrulous though not usually drunk, while the youths
seize their chenoe to court or flirt with the maidens.
If our ears are attuned, we have probably noticed three or four distinct
changes of lenguage from district to district since leaving the city. There are
also differenocs in dress and in custom. Gradually the country becomes wilder in
appearance. The jungle clad hills loom near. Instead of clustered barrios, there
are soattered homesteads. The huts may show signs of hasty construotion, as of a
pioneer who at the end of a weary truk cannot waste a moment in realizing his dream
of claiming rich productive fields from tho wilderness, of having land that he can
call his own whatever the suorifioes of comfort and congenial company. There is
little indolence, gambling, or cusy dependence on rulatives hero. The homesteader
and his family are hard at work from daylight to durk. There is strength of
character in his face. Perhaps, to, there is a hint of fear at this wrestling of
his with stark nature, and with the spirits he believes to haunt isolated plaoes.
Now we are on a lonely road indeed. Perhaps we have had to leavo the
narrow automobile track and wend our way on horseback or afoot. "No man's land"

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
-49-
must be orossed, that is, the more or less empty belt of country between the
Christian settlements and those of non-Christian folk who until recent deoades
remained apart. Today, however, this area is being gradually broken into use.
Christian settlers are pushing in, while the non-Christians, sensing the benefits of
peace and trade, are gradually lowering their barriers of exclusiveness. We pass
several groups of pagans, clad in gee-strings and blankets. They are making their
way out to a market town with rattan, tobacoo and other goods to sell. Or they may
be returning to their foret or mountain homes after a period of work in the lowland
fields, bringing back their wages in the form of bundles of salt, carabaos, pigs,
dogs, or metal to convert into tools and weupons.
The forest folk whom we enoounter may live in tiny groups of three or four
houses beside a stream. The men hunt and fish, while the women grow dry rioe, beans
and other produce in clearings out from season to season in the dense jungle! Food
comes plentifully in normal times. Their main struggle seems to be with the dread
malaria that keeps the population soanty. Knowing practically nothing as yet of
modern medicine, they seek to appease the malignant spirits of disease by sacrificing
dogs and by making other offurings. Deeper yet in the jungle, may be encountered
people who havo their huts high up in the forks of trees. We may even come upon
some band of timid pygmies, roving with their bows and arrows, though it is unlikely
that we will actually see these folk unless we have a guide who is on friendly terms
with them.
Going higher and higher, we come at last abovo the jungle belt. Groat
peaks and ranges soar up perhaps to nearly ten thousand foet above sea level. Thoy
are scarred by gorges and river courses. The gentler slopes are clothed with pine
and oak trees and even grassy moadows. In this isolated and not altogether hospita-
ble region live perhaps the most hardworking of Filipinos, the pagan "highlanders."
Through the centuries they have built stupondous terraces fed by elaborate irrigation

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
-50-
systems, in which to grow rice and other foods upon the mountain sides. All life
for them is bound around the annual cycle of agrioulture. Women work in the fields
along with the men. The gods and ancestors, too, are invoked with sacrifices of
pigs, chiokens and other valued goods to do their part in warding off the starvatio
that comes with a bad season. Almost every village was formerly a self-contained
unit, hostile to all others. Its thousand or so people have intermarried closely
through the centuries, and each group may have many customs which even neighbors do
not share. But today as we have noted, conditions are changing. The people,
especially the young folk, are conmencing to mingle among themselves and with the
Christian lowlanders. They are Filipinos in the making, even though it may take a
long time to assimilate them to the general life of the country.
If, instead of striking inland, we had sailed to the southern coasts, we
would have come to Moro country. The Mohammedans are essentially a people who live
by the water. Some have their houses on piles over the sea and all are at home in
the slender vintas that once engaged in pirate raids. Their clothing is elaborately
ornamented. Gay red and yellow colors predominate. Those who can afford it have
more than one wife, as the Koran allows this. The folk of each district look to
their own dato or petty sultan. Until recently the Moros were linked more olosely
with other Mohammedans noross the straits in Borneo than with the Christian
Filipinos. But a sense of being Filipino is now emerging, and as with the pagans
hostility toward the Christian is slowly but surely passing.
So much for a first glance at the Philippines today. It is now our task
to examine more systematically the contemporary scene, espccially the problems that
face the Filipino people now that their national independonce is in sight.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
-51
CHAPTER TX
CROWDS AND EMPTY SPACES
The natural starting point for our analysis is to know something about the
basic facts of population
The last census of the Philippines, taken in 1918, showed a total of
nearly ten and a half million Filipinos. By 1934, it was estimated that there had
been an inoroase to thirteen millions, or more than the combined populations of
Norway, Sweden and Denmark, and about one fifth that of Japan. A recent count of
the non-Filipino residents showed about 71,000 Chinose, 19,500 Japanese, 7,700
Amerioans, 5,500 Spaniards, and 3,000 of other nationalities.
According to truso ficures, the Philippines have an uverage of about 114
people to the squar. mile, In itself, this does not tell us much. If they were
barren and mountainous it might well represent a cupucity population. On the other
hand, we have secn the islands to be for tho main part rich and fertile. Compared
with somewhat similar aruas in many countries in asia and Europe they are undor-
populated. A Filipino scholar estimates that on the present busis of economio life,
the Philippines could support fifty million people comfortably, and if intensive
agriculture and lower st: ndards of living prevailed they could hold ninety to a
hundred million, that is, nearly one quarter the population of China.1 The
Philippines aro thus an undersettled and underdeveloped country. a land of pioneer
regions. The real import of this is appuront if we recall that only a short
distance away are coastal China and islund Japun, which are among the most densely
populated regions of the carth.
1
Cornelio C. Cruz, Philippine Dumography from th: Geographic Point of View, Insti-
tute of Pacific Relations, Munila, 1933.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
1
+44
DENSITY OF
PROVINCES
2
1
ILOCOS NORTE
BATANES
A
0
POPULATION
3
ILOCOS SUR
4
ABRA
5
PER SQUARE MILE
5
CAGAYAN
2
6
MOUNTAIN
BY PROVINCES -
7 ISABELA
 LA UNION
OVER 400
100 -150
NUEVA VIZCAYA
3
6
IO PANGASINAN
350 -400
50 - 100
11
ZAMBALES
12
TARLAC
19
8
9
300 - 350
25 - 50
13
NUEVA ECIJA
14
PAMPANGA
13
250 -300
15 - 25
15
BULACAN
16
TAYABAS
11
200 -250
UNDER 15
17
BATAAN
G
16
150 - 200
18
RIZAL
19
CAVITE
19
20
22
20
LAGUNA
21 BATANGAS
21
23
30
SAMAR
23 CAMARINES SUR
22 CAMARINES NORTE
24
32
31
CAPIZ
ANTIQUE
24 MARINDUQUE
27
34
ILOILO
25 MINDORO
25
28
34
OCCIDENTAL NEGROS
26 ROMBLON
2a
27
ALBAY
28
SORSOGON
29
30
31
32
34
37
33
36
49
35 ORIENTAL NEGROS
38
40
36
CEBU
37
LEYTE
35
39
38
BOHOL
39
AGUSAN
42
43
40
SURIGAO
41
ZAMBOANGA
41
42
OCCIDENTAL MISAMIS
43
ORIENTAL MISAMIS
46
47
BUKIDNON
48
45 LANAO
46 COTOBATO
47 DAVAO
48 SULU
49
PALAWAN
KEESING

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.98)
-52-
Skotch map 3 shows the distribution of the Filipinos over their country
today. From it appears a further striking point. The coasts and river val leys are
thickly settlcd, also to quito an cxtont the acccssible plains. But vast areas of
hinterland are sparsely populated or empty. A part of this land is, of course,
mountainous und unfit for sottlement cxcept as the hill folk have worked out means
to eke a living from it. Yet the Bureau of Forestry has calculated that nearly
47,0o0 square mil, s, or wcll over one third of the total area of the Philippine
Islands, consists of cultivuble lunds yet unoultivuted. The great island of Mindanao
is particularly emoty, in contrast to much of Luzon which is thickly settled.
This concentration of the Filipinos in sp cial places can casily be under-
stood in the light of history and of their manners of life. We suw how the majority
of the early migrants were soafaring people, Indonesians and Malayans, who settled
along the coast or on the rivers and stroums. Fishing was one of their main ocoupa-
tions. The kin groups wo ld live close togother not only for defensive purposes but
also because of the close family and social bonds characteristic of Filipino life.
At an carlier point, rcferonce was mado to the great increase in population
that has takon place in modern days. Now this came about among the lowland coastal
dwellers rather than the isolated non-Christians. In tho island of Panay, for
example, the Spaniurds collected 22, 000 tributes in 1586, which means that the
population probably nurbered 90,000. In 1928 it was ustimated that Panay conteinod
over one million inhabitants. Since the Filipino likus to stay among his kinsmon
the anocstral living site, und only exccptional necessity or ambition causos him to
leave, this hes meant that the forner small barangays have become large, crowded
barrios. In the Filipino family, young marricd folk live either in the home of one
or other parents, where they form part of the essential work force of the household,
or else build a home near by.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
-53-
But there is only a limited amount of agricultural land available around
eaoh town or village. Much of that is now usually owned by a few rich cacique
families (page 31). This means that the people have to work their own little
holdings more intensively to feed the ever increasing number of mouths. Or else
they have to become share tenants or laborers under praotioally starvation conditions
for their more favorably situated fellows. The only alternatives are for them, if
they oan, and if they are willing to break the home ties, either to go away for
longer or shorter periods to places where they oan earn money, or else to pioneer
new homesteads in frontier regions.
Here we are getting down to some of the basic problems of Filipino life.
Such economic pressuro is the main reason why so many thousands of younger Filipinos
have oome to the United Statcs, working as plantation and garden laborers, musicians,
waiters and the like. They want to earn money. The great majority of them are
sending money home to help pay the family debts, or if they are more fortunate to
buy land that will onable them to beoome independent and so perhaps graduate to the
aacique class.
In the Philinpines itself, there is a seasonal ebb and flow of men and to
some extent women to industrial and urban centers where labor for wages is available.
If it were not for the excellent rouds that now form a network over the Philippines,
and the oommeroial development that now is threatened through partial closing of the
American markets, the poorer Filipinos would be more and more at the meroy of the
landlords. Many would be faced by the alternatives of starvation or near slavery
unless thoy moved to new pluces.
Why, it may be asked, have the peoplo in the crowded areas not moved to
settle the empty areas? Many, of course, are accustomed to serving the landlords
willingly, for their anoestors have done so right back to early times. The churoh
has taught that humility and resignation are virtues. Short of being made dissatis-

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
-54-
fied by the slow infiltration of American economio and educational ideas, they know
of nothing better. They depend on the cacique not only to organize their agri-
oulture but also, perhaps, to recommend wives for their boys and girls and advise
them on other intimate matters of their lives. Until nowadays neither they nor
their forefathers have dreamt of a society where every man stands on his own feet.
The ordinary man in the Philippines is often called "Juan de la Cruz"
just as in America he is sometimes labelled "John Doe," or in England "John Bull."
Now, say Juan de lu Cruz gets un idea that he and his family should move away and
settle on new lands. Just becuuse ho is in dire need or ho would not reach the
extreme decision of leaving the ancestral barrio, he is suro to be in debt to the
landlord. But it costs money to move. He must have rail, bus or boat fare; or
even if he loads his goods and family on to a carabao cart how will he feed himself
in the months required to break in an area of unoccupied jungle and grow his first
crops? He cannot go to the landlord to borrow more money or rice. The landlord
wants him to stay and work, and indeed is almost sure to start legal proceedings to
collect the outstanding debts that will land the ambitious Juan in jail.
Added to these difficulties, Juan fears the lonely places. In his own
bamboo house safe in the village he shuts the windows at night to keep out the
wandering anitos (spirits) und perhaps at certain times puts out offerings of food
to please them. To go to the end of the trails and face the lush jungle with its
unknown ghostly terrors, to livo and work day after day awey from his sociable
fellows, requires a nerve that his medieval training has hardly fostered. And his
fears are not all imaginings. In newly cut jungle country, the dread malaria is at
its worst, and if he himself survives it is practically sure to take toll among his
family. A poem has been written giving some idou of the experiences of those who
have ventured forth in spite of all theso handioaps:

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
-00
"Oh Mary,
Sacred and pitying,
Mary the Mother,
Humbly we pray you -
Make this great land,
Rich land of rivers,
Of wide-spreading hills and jungles
Yield unto us ere long
The good things that the Father,
Our priest,
Told us that one day it would bring.
We have paid the full measure.
Yonder beneath the trees
You have seen me bury my wife...
I and my sons have labored.
Wo huve built our strong bumboo home;
We have fought ith the greedy undergrowth
That would steal again our fields...
Season after season our bones have ached
And the fever has burned in our veins
In this vast land,
Lonely land,
Far off from our kindred,
Home of the wild forost people
Who worship strange cods..." 2
There are added complications to this pionecring. The land laws of tho
Philippines are yet very cumbersome. It may be yoars before Juan can get a paper
from the government indicating that the new homestead is his own. Cases are by no
means unknown where unscrupulous people who have a knowledge of the law trick
settlers out of their holdings so laboriously broken in. Again, these uninhabited
places are often the ancestral hunting grounds of tho non-Christian forest and
mountain people. These rosent the onorouchment of the Christian lowlanders upon
their traditional territories. The government is having a delioate task to keep
suoh newly pacified folk from doscending upon the settlers with their head-axes, us
has happened on more than one occusion.
It is now noro easy to see why tho Filipino population is spread so un-
evenly. Today, many American und Filipino lcuders consider this the outstanding
internal problem of the country. The governmont has launohed sevcral colonization
sohemes by which familics from crowded places are trunsported in compact groups to
2 By Marie M. Keesing, written in a Pilipino homstouder's hut.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
-56-
new areas, given the necessary finanoial support to aoquire land and establish them-
selves, and supplied with doctors and teachers. On the whole they have been success-
ful, though very expensive. Yet only a few hundred families have been thus moved
and this has been quite inadequate to solve the problem.
Two of the many groups among the Philippine population are rather
exoeptional in that considerable numbers of them have migrated voluntarily to other
regions. Christian folk called Visayans from the middle islands of the arohipelago,
now in some instances crowded (sketch map 3), have moved across to settle on the
northern coasts of Mindunao. Another Christian poople called Ilooanos, who live on
a narrow coastal strip of northwest Luzon known as the Ilocos coast, have spread
widely over the neighboring rugion und even to other parts of the Philippines.
The Ilocanos are often spoken of as tho Scotohmen or Jews of the islands.
Their lands are densely settled, and tho villagers are hardworking and thrifty as
a result of their efforts to win a living from the narrow strip of soil that lies
between the soa and the high mountains. Poople who say that Filipinos are indolent
and unenterprising always mako an exception of these Ilocanos. In recent decades,
thousands of Ilocano individuals and families have migrated to the wide-spreading
plains between their country and Manila, likewise to a large river basin called the
Cagayan valley in northernmost Luzon where they were first taken to grow tobacco for
Spanish commercial interests. Tho majority of Filipinos who have come to the
United States are Ilocanos. Today, all told, this group numbers almost a million
and a half. As they have moved into the territories of other local Filipino peopl..
they have tonded to oust and absorb them. Of this, more will be said shortly.
A rather different type of migration in the modern Philippines has boen a
movoment of enterprising people from rural districts to the citics. The early
Spaniards counted about 30,O00 Filipinos within a radius of "five leagues" in and
around Manila. Today there uro some 400,O00 people living in the city itself. Other

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.98)
D.
Basco
TOWNS AND
COMMUNICATIONS
0
PROVINCIAL
CAPITALS SHOWN
Laoag
Bangued
Tuguegarao
vigan
ROADS
Bontoc
Ilagan
RAILROADS
San Fernando
(AS AT 1932)
Bayombong
BAGUIO
Iba
Cabanatuan
Malolos
MANILA
Balanga
Santa Cruz
Daet
Cavite.
Batangas
Naga
LEGASPI
Calapan
Sorsogon
Rumblon
Masbate
Catbalogan
Capiz
Taclaban
San José
Buenavista
Bacodod
CEBU
ILOILO
Surigao
Tagbilaran
Dumaguete
C282yan
Butuan
Oroquieta
Malaybalay
Dansalan
Cotobato
Davao
ZAMBUANGA
Jolo
KEESIN

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
-57-
cities have grown up in the islands where suitable harbors for sea-going vessels
were available: Cebu, Iloilo, Zamboanga, and Legaspi being the main ones (sketoh
map 4). There is also a "summer capital," the city of Baguio, in the high mountains
of north Luzon. Numbers of the rural barrios have grown into large towns. But
none of these others compare with Manila. It is the apex of commeroial, political,
social and eduoational life in the Philippines, a great modern city around which
Filipino nationhood is oriented, the ultima thule of all educated and ambitious
Filipinos. As may be expected, too, it is a city of much poverty, since folk who
have once caught the fever of urbun living are loth to return to the country.
A large proportion of the foreign community, both white and Oriental,
reside in Manila. Americans are to be found elsewhere in army and navy posts, or
as government officials, directors of industrial enterprises, and missionaries
among the pagans. Chinese trudesmen are scattered throughout practioally all the
barrios of the urchipelago. A Japanese agricultural colony of several thousand
people is looated at Davao, in southeast Mindanao, also a smaller number at Baguio,
the mountain capital in Luzon. Japanese have almost complete control of the commer-
cial fisheries in the islands.
At the present time, the American laws excluding Orientals apply in the
Philippines, so that such immigration is limited. But numbers of thinking Filipino:
fear that an independent Philippines will not bo able to sustain such a prohibition
beoause of the need for doveloping trade relationships with the near-by countries.
A Filipino soholar recently warned his people thut "if we do not settle and develop
these resources (in the underpopulated regions), other people will come to do it
for us."

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
-58-
CHAPTER X
UNITY OUT OF DIVERSITY
We have indiouted that there are local groups in the Philippines with
many varieties of speech and custom: heritage of the complex peopling of the
islands. The task of this seotion is to see more clearly what these differenox are,
and how far in the modern process of nation building there has come about a greater
unity.
It is not casy to got from tho books that have beon written on the
Filipinos a clear ideu of the likenesses and difforences emong thom. Some writers
have stressed tho variations from district to listriot. They make much of the
contrast between the Christians and the non-Christians, and give an impression thut
the Filipinos cannot bocome a unified people exoept, perhaps, aftor a very long
time indeed. Others take an opposite viowpoint. They say that, except perhaps for
the tiny handful of pygmy folk, the Filipinos are a kindred Indo-Malayan people,
basically one, with local differenoes that are boooming no more important, say, than
those in the United States between city and country, north and south, New York and
California, descendunts of Filgrim Fathers and of recont immigrants from Europe.
Filipino leaders incline strongly to the latter view as part of their assertion that
they are ready for indopendence. Thero does the truth lie?
As tho Spaniards brought one after anothor of the independent little
communities under control in the sixteenth contury, they noted that they could be
olassed on the basis of language and custom into larger wholes. The people in and
around Manila, for example, spoke more or less the sane tongue, worshipped the sam
deities, and allowing for slight differenocs fron settlement to settlement were
essentially similar folk. That they fought anong thomselves a great deal, perhaps,
did not make them culturally difforent; this happened also among the anoestors of

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.97)
LOCAL
6.000
IBANAG
GROUPINGS
120,000
1,300,000
BONIOC
ITAVI
25,000
OF THE
KANKANAI
ISINAI
2.500
FILIPINO
PANGASINAN
PEOPLE
4.000
SAMBAL
350.000
Christians
50000
PAMPANGO
NEGRITO
(names underlined)
390.000
C
Mohammedans
十
Manila
400.000
(names in italics)
Nature and ancestor
2.250.000
NEGRITO
DUMAGAT
worshippers
1500
(names not underlined)
14.000
BICOL
The statistics
C
830,000
only.
are approximate
NEGRITO
KALAMIAN
12000
SAMAR-
2
AKLAN
NEGRITO
VISAYAN
150.000
VISAYAN
LEYTE
800,000
PANAY
VISAYAN
十
1,030,000
VISAVAN
20.000
MEGRITO
CEBU
MANOBO
30000
(MUROS
BUKIDNON
☆
LANAO
35 000
MURUS
MANGGUANCAN
MANDAYA
☆
MAGINDANAO
yo ooo
ATA
18.000
500
CHRISTIAN
160,000
MOROS
COLUNISTS
☆
YAKAN
MOROS
TIRURAI
17.500
10000
SAMAL
SANGUIL
BADJAO
SULU MOROS
MOROS
4.500
125.000
2.500
KEESING

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
-59-
the present Gormans and others in Europe, and does still among the Chinese, without
1
negating the fact that the people conoerned are of the same ethnio groupings.
These Manila folk had a name for themselves and thoir speeoh, Tagalog. To this day
they are known as suoh. North and south of the Tagalog on the plains and in the
mountains and jungles, the Spaniards found many other ethnic units of this kind,
Ilocano, Ilongot, Tagbanua and a lot more.
It is well worth taking the time to survey these groups as we find them
today, seeing where they live and their approximato numbors. For this we may follow
sketch map 5.
Taking tho Christians firct, we find the Tagalog still around Manila, now
grown to somo 2,250,000. North f Tagalog country are 390,000 Pampango, 350,000
Pangasinan, 1,300,000 Ilocano, 120,000, Ibanag, and ulso four or five much smaller
groups. South Luzon has 830, O00 folk called Bicol. In the middle or Visaya islands
are various pooples who speak a group of olosely related dialects known as Visayan
(sometimes written Bisayan), and whoso oustoms are fairly muoh alike. Comprising
some 5, 330,000 in all, they are casily the most numerous Filipino unit today. The
largost dialect groups among them are the Cebu Visuyan (2, 750, O00) and the Panay
Visayan (1, 630,000). A fow separato ethnic units exist in theso islands but are
very small.
The Moros in th: south ure also made up of various units. Though
Mohammedanized, they still, as with the Christians, retain local peculiarities.
There are about 160,000 Magindanao, 125,000 Sulu, 38,000 Samal, and several smaller
groups. Together, the Moros total about 490,500.
Of the pagans, about a quarter million live in the inland fastnesses of
northern Luzon. They comprisu some fourteen groups, of which the largest are
1 The word "ethnic" comes from the Greek ethnos, meaning "people." Another related
word in English is "ethmology." the study of peoples.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
-60-
100,000 Ifugao, 40,000 Bontoo, and 30,000 each of Ibaloi, Kalinga and Lepanto. In
the vast highlands of Mindanao, too, are over one hundred and eighty thousand more
pagans, including 35,000 Bukidnon, 30,000 Manobo, and 27,000 Subanun. Palawan has
20,O00 Tagbanua. Counting in the remnant of Negritos, the pagans number in all
A few comments will make these divisions clearer. In the first place,
they represent important differenoes of speech. Scholars are able to trace all the
Philippine languages to a common ancestry. Also it is rather easier for a Filipino
from one area to learn another dialect than for, say, an Englishman to learn Dutch
or German, or a Frenchman to learn Italian. The dialects have an akin grammatical
structure and other elements in common. Yet for immediate praotical purposes only
the people of each local group can understand one another in their native dialect.
To a Tagalog, for instance, the talk of an Ilocano or Visayan is incomprehensible,
unless exceptional circumstanoes have caused him to learn that form of speech.
Indeed, sometimes within the same group there are differences from district to
distriot that make understanding diffioult, as among the Visayan dialects. The
Philippine scene has thus been one of great linguistio diversity.
Much the sume applies to customs, beliefs, ideas of right and wrong, and
the like. There hus been an essential sameness underlying the ways of nearly all
Filipino units. Family and social life follow the same general principles of
organization, the older religious ideas were broadly alike, and so on. But from
group to group there developed important differences in detail that clearly marked
each from the others. And it is these detailed things, such as what at any parti-
The figures given above are based on an estimate by Professor H. O. Beyer, made
in 1927. The exact numbers are not known today, as there has been no census
since 1918. The non-Christians have never been accurately counted.

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
-61-
oular time, it is "correct" to eat, wear, do or leave undone, laugh at, or believe
in, that determine to a great extent whether people are friendly and respeotful to
one another or suspioious and contomptuous.
It is no part of our task to spe oulato how all these local specialisms
might have come about as a result of group isolation or contact. Rather we want to
know how far they are important in modern days. Do they forn a barrier to Filipino
unity and cooperation? Aro large groups prevailing over small groups, and is one
type of spoech and oustom omerging to replace all the others?
Let us pioture the results of modern neuce and intercourse. As peoples
hitherto isolated bogan to travel in one unother's districts, exchanging ideas,
trading, and perhaps marrying and settling, they had to make adjustments in their
traditional ways. The border-lines between ethnic units tended to become blurred.
The growing cities and towns had mixed populations. Vihere one group seemed to have
easier methods of doing things, or better goods und ideas, the others might oopy
them. One essential necd was to have somo meuns of common communication.
Three of the local dialects cmerged in modern times as most important for
suoh intercourse. Tagulog, the spoech of the Manila people, who were in closest
touoh with the whites, was leurnt by all the other folk in the central Philippines.
In the north, Ilocano migrunts (puges 55-56) carriod their dialect with them. Even
the pagan groups of tho northorn jungles and mountains learnt to use Ilocano as a
medium for common contact among one another, and as the language of trading and
government activities which brought contact with the outside world. Among the
southern Philippine groups, Visuyan spread likewise, especially the dialeot of Cabu.
It was a great natural cxperiment in self-education.
Today, it would be a very rare Filipino who cannot speak one of theso
three major dialects. it the sume time, however, those who do not count them as
the mother tongue preserve their own particular dialects for use in the family

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
-62-
and barrio. Furthermore, few Filipinos can speak more than one of these major
dialects. Even among the Filipinos who have come to the United States, the Tagalog
speaking persons cannot understand those speaking the Ilocano or Visayan, nor the
latter one another. No one dialect has become a national tongue. For common
interoourse, those who are able have to use Spanish or English, and otherwise an
interpreter must be called in.
Some observers see in this lack of a generally understood speech a serious
bar to national unity. It is one reason why American educators have been pushing
hard the learning of English. among certain ardent Filipino nationalists, a move-
ment has started to maku, not En:lish, but one of the three main Philippine
languages thcir common tongue. But unfortumately the Tagalogs insist that it should
be Tagalog, while Ilocanos and Visayans think that their home dialects are the best.
Meantime educated Filipinos curry on the national business variously in Spanish and
English, with English steadily coming to predominate. Their uneducated countrymen
can at best speak in the common dialect of the locality. The Philippine soene is
thus linguistically very complicated. Ultimately, many believe, English will be
the wider intellectual language of the Filipinos, with probably a fused Malayan
dialect based on Tugalog as a unoondary tongue; but that day is yot far off.
Language is a vehiclo by which the ideus and values of a community carry
over from person to person and goneration to generation. Along with the dialects,
therefore, many of the local customs have been presorved. The Filipino of today,
even the member of a small minority group, cherishes the ancestral ways. At the
same time he knows the ways of his neighbors to quito an extent, and may have
incorporated some of them voluntarily into his life. Where, for cxample, the pagans
of the hills formorly took one crop of rice from their fields each year, many of
them are now imitating the low) nders and cultiv tin: two crops.
Sometimes, however, mcmbers of one group ussume an attitude of superiorit.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
-63-
over others, and this is reciprocated; then there is trouble and ill-feeling. The
non-Christian often feels that the Christians look down on him and his ways with
pity if not contempt, so he tends to keep apart. The Manila folk are accused of
holding themselves above the rural groups. But then the same is said of New Yorker
or Bostonians. Undoubtedly the trend is for sectionalism to be tempered more and
more by a wider sense of being Filipino.
Among the most important influences in creating a groater unity have been
trade, religion, political organization, and education. These will be dealt with
more fully as the study prooeeds. Here, we can remind ourselves that, at least
among the majority of Filipinos, the local ways became overlaid in days past by a
common heritage of Spanish-Christiun ideas and customs. (Chapter VI). Likewise the
life of the Moro groups was reorganized in relation to the Mohammedan faith. Today,
roads, schools, government offices, stores, newspapers, radios, and the like are
being effeotive in linking the people together more and more as a whole. While the
Spaniards were inclined to look askanoe at any movement towards Filipino unity, the
Americans are cooperating heartily with Filipino leaders in trying to enoourage it.
Especially in the case of the backward peoples, a steady pressure is being exerted
toward "assimilation."
The modern scene, therefore, is one in which the old localisms of speech,
custom and loyelty are to a lcrge oxtent preserved, yet there is emerging over and
above these a common national life und loyalty. On the ono hand, there is great
conservatism. Many Filipinos still know little, or are interested in little outside
the immediate round of family and community life. On the other, the people as a
whole are being introduced as fast us circumstances allow to all from western
civilization that is considered of benefit in nation building, and a spirit of
Filipino citizenship is being fostered.
It is not casy, as mattors stand today, to pronounoe judgment as to how far

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
-64-
the Filipinos can be oalled a unified people. There is a danger into which some
observers have fallen, of confusing unity with uniformity. In our own western
nations we do not demand that everyone follow exactly the same patterns of life in
order to be good citizens. Pride in our city, state, and special ways of doing
things are by no means inconsistent with loyalty to the nation. In the case of the
Filipinos, too, it would be false to say that the people cannot be one so long as
all these local differences exist. Indeed, rooted as these are in the soil and the
history of each region, they form a rich heritage uny undue destruction of which
would be a distinct cultural loss to the Filipino nution. We should therefore
suspend judgment on this question of unity until the present day life of the
Filipino people has been reviewed more fully.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
TOBACCO
GOLD
PRINCIPAL
ECONOMIC
RICE
FEATURES
CORN
TOBACCO
LUMBER
SUGAR
RICE
FISH
MANILA-INDUSTRY
AND COMMERCE
SUGAR
COPRA
ABACA
RICE
(COCONUT)
COPRA
ABACA
RICE
FISH
SUGAR
CORN
LUMBER
COPRA
00
0
LUMBER
COPRA
ABACA
PEARLS
KEESING

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
-65-
CHAPTER XI
THE WORKER OF THE SOIL
According to the census of 1918, seventy-two per cent of Filipino men were
agrioulturalists. Had the census been adjusted to local oonditions, it would have
been recorded, too, that the majority of women worked in the fields, and even the
boys and girls in the rural families took their part in the seasonal oyole of
oultivation.
The department of agriculture and commerce of the Philippine government
estimates that in 1932 sugar was produced in the islands to the value of nearly
60 million dollars,1 rice worth nearly 45 millions, coconuts and copra 16 millions,
corn 5 millions, hemp 4 millions and tobacco 32 millions. Many other agricultural
produots bring the total valuo to about 150 million dollars. Almost the whole of
Philippine exports are made up of agrioultural conmodities, notably sugar, copra
and coconut oil, hemp and tobacoo.2 In other words, the economio and commeroial
life of the islands is built up direotly upon the labor of those who work the soil.
Under American wardship, the way has been opened for economio betterment.
Life has become more stable and seoure. People can accumulate property without
fear of confiscation. Trade is carried on from district to distriot, and with the
larger world outside. Where, before, Juan de la Cruz and his family had to make
for themselves praotically overything they needed, - tools, olothing, pottery and
so forth - now they can buy it from the barrio storekoeper or the oity shops,
provided they have the money. Likewise they can concentrate their labor upon
1
That is, 120 million pesos. The peso is the unit of Philippine money, and in
normal times is worth fifty cents gold.
2
From the Statistioal Handbook of the Philippine Islands, 1932, Bureau of Printing,
Manila, 1933. See sketch map 6 for a picture of regional produotion.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
-66-
speoial tasks the products of which are in demand: agriculture, for instanoe, or
hat-making, gathering rattan in the forest, or working in a Manila factory. There
has been a decline in home industries. Yet the new division of labor has brought
the possibilities of better material standards of living.
Nevertheless, scholars tell, the Filipinos as a people are still very poor,
"so poor that they can hardly make both ends meet."3 It is estimated that their
average per capita wealth is $233, as compared with $380 for Japan and $2,918 for the
United States. Even this wealth is more oonoentrated into the hands of a few than
in our own country. A Filipino leader estimates that the average property of the
tenant olass is worth only about $10.4 Professor Macaraig, of the University of the
Philippines writes:
"The earnings, or shares, of the tenants in the produots of their
work are so small that they oan hardly subsist on them. They are not
properly olothed, and they can not buy shoes... They do not eat nourish-
ing food and they are easily attacked by beriberi.
"When they become siok, they have no money with whioh to pay the
doctor or to buy medicine. Many of them die without medical attendanoe.
When their relatives die, they must depend upon their neighbors' contri-
butions to pay for tho expense of burial. When droughts or floods destroy
the rice orop, they have no savings upon which to draw. When their poorly
built nipa5 houses are burned, they are loft entirely without property
and money with whioh to start life anew. They are poverty-stricken. In
order that they may live, they borrow money from money lenders at very
high rates of interest. Sometimes they loso their self-respect entirely,
and depend upon relatives and friends for support."
Why are the vast majority of Filipinos so poor? The writer just quoted
gives five rousons as follows. (a) The natural rosources of the Philippines are not
yet well developed. (b) The rich folk exploit the poor. (o) The Filipinos love
gambling. and this tends to make them lazy and to keep them in poverty. (d) "Becaus.
See Serafin E. Macaraig, Community Problems, chapters I, IV, X, XVIII, XIX.
4
President Camilo Osias of tho National University of the Philippines, quoted by
Macaraig, op.oit., p. 179.
5
Nipa is a palm, the leaves of which are used for thatching.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
-67-
we do not have many necessities in life, we do not work hard enough to acoumulate
wealth. We have no cold winter to worry about. We need no coal or expensive
woolen clothing. We can live in nipa houses and on rice and fish without starving.
The result is that our people become lazy. They depend on what they get from nature
in an easy manner. They do not work hard to produce wealth, and so our country is
poor." (e) Filipinos do not practice thrift and exeroise foresight. "When they
have plenty of money, they spend it carelessly on fiestas and expensive clothing,
or throw it away in gambling. They do not...look ahead and save their money for
a carabao cart, but spend at the rate of an eight cylinder car."
It is worth looking more closely at reason - (d) above. We must always
be careful about measuring the ways of living of other peoples by our own. What we
think is good or bad, wealth or poverty, and so on does not always correspond to
their ideas: each folk has its own standards of value. We may, for instance,
believe an Australian Aborigine to be very badly off on his parched deserts living
on whatever kangaroos and other game he can catch. But he certainly would not
thank us if we took him into a Park Avenue mansion. To him it would be a suffocat-
ing prison, and the foods, crockery and cutlery on its spotless tablecloth quite
"foreign" and unaprealing: he would long for his open hunting grounds and the joys
of life in a country where so-oalled civilized men, for all their knowledge, woul
quiokly starve. To many a Filipino peasant, ten or twenty dollars would represent
comparative weelth. Supplied as he is with the lush-growing tropical produco,
trained to live in the simple ways of his encestors, trusting in supernatural
powers to care for him, and little touched as yet by education or modern standards
of value that would revolutionizo his ideas, he muy not be so unhappy as we ure
6 Idem, pp. 181-183

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
-68-
inolined to think on reading over the above statistics and opinions. "Laziness" is
merely the indication that he acoepts life as it comes without great effort. He
looks to the rich cacique to assume the responsibilities of agriculture. And
fiestas, wearing bright clothes, gambling, and the like form his simple pleasures.
Only as more and more Filipinos come under the influence of American standards, and
they have regard to the building of a modern nation, do these appear wasteful and
unprogressive.
To illustrate this, let us turn to a picture given by a Filipino writer
who was born in the Caguyan villey in northernmost Luzon. The Cagayan is only now
beooming pioneered over most of its area by the Ibanag, Gaddang, and other
Christians native to the valley, and by a flood of Ilocano settlers from the Ilocos
coast (page 55-56). The scene is of the remoter homestead country rather than of
7
the orowded distriots:
"Adoy - that is how the tenant in the Cagayan Valley styles himself - has
the fortune of living in a region where the landlord simply has to be fair with him.
A very considerable portion of the tobaoco region...is still virgin. Consequently,
unlike in the Ilocos and Central Provinces, the competition is not among the tenants
for lands to cultivate, but among the little landlords for tenants. Henoe, the
landlord has to keep Adoy contented if he is not to lose his tenant to someone else.
"The lundlord gives Adoy a piece of land as large us Adoy can cultivate,
and takes one half of the crop. If Adoy does not own the work animals, like the
poorer farmers, he gets only one-third of the produot. aside from the cultivation
of the land assigned to him, Adoy is required to do little else. He hauls cartlos;
of firewood to town, and helps fence the yard of his landlord; but ask him, and he
Reduoed from Mariano D. Manawis, "The Farmer's Life in the Cagayan Valley," in
the Philippine Magazine, February 1933.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
-69-
will tell you that he does these things not under compulsion but out of gratitude,
or to win the esteem of his master, or because he wants to ask Dona Maria - that is
Mrs. Landlord - to be the godmother of his latest-born.
"Adoy and his family live in a very simple dwelling; a two-room bamboo
shaok... This he builds and rebuilds at surprisingly small cost. Bamboo grows in
luxuriant groves in his backyard, his for the cutting. Cogon grass for roofing
purposes he cuts in the idle lands nearby... And labor? Every farmer is a
oarpenter, and it is a custom among the Cugayanos (Cagayan people) for tenants
cultivating adjaoent lands to help eaoh othur in the construction of their houses
as well as in the planting and harvesting of their crops. Praotioally all that is
neoessary is a little...wine...and chocolute and cukes. All this Adoy may get
from his landlord on credit.
"Adoy marries at an early age. Aguet is the name of his wife... Aguet
is not of his own winning; his parents still consider it their right to choose for
him...
"There are five children in the family. They are a greut help on the
farm. Adoy ploughs the fields. Aguet follows him to piok up the uprooted grasses,
whioh she burns. Atang stays at home. She boils rice while rocking the little one.
Seven-year-old Fana...is learning the "ABC" under the tutorship of her grandfather.
-- Learning the Caton (primer) and how to count up to one hundred is almost all the
education adoy can afford to give his children.-- Ati, after helping his father
with the plow, goes to the brook to oatoh crabs or to the rice paddies to catoh
mudfish; while Illo is on the back of his futhor's socond carabao. He is not play-
ing. He is grazing the beast while scaring the birds away from the blooming rice,
and his little voice is often heard in a native tune. In the aftcrnoon when Adoy
harrows the plowed field, Aguet stays at home to mend tho family's clothes, and to
cook oorn or camotes (sweet potatoes) for all...

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
-70-
"Adoy too is affoctod by the eoonomio depression. From the raw tobacco
which he would scll at 200 pesos (100 dollars), he gets only 90 to 100 pesos now.
But what does he need much money for, anyway? Before all the pusungay (the smallest
salable leaves) have been gathered, he begins to plant corn8 and beans in between
the rows of denuded tobacco stalks. His share of the products, he stores to feed
his family and his landlord's horses. He raises palay (rioe) also, but that is
for his landlord...
"The farmers, of course, do not livc on boiled rice or corn alone.
Saluyut (a vegotable), the fuvorito dish of the Ilocanos...grows uninvitod in the
corn fields. Eggplants, tomatoes, papayas, ampulayus, oto., grow in tho garden
noar his home. The whitc squash is more than food for him, for he outs it crosswise
in helves, seusons the lower half in the sun, and next time he goes to town you
see it on his head. A hat!
"Thc tobacoo grower, no matter how poor, has chickens under his house.
On Sundays and during fiestas when doy and his family g) to town, you will see the
wife carrying a small bsket on her head... Lift the piecc of oloth that covers
it and you will sec a hen with its logs tied, some oggs, and a few bundlos of
vegetables. On the return...(they) have metamorphosed into a bottle of petroloum,
three centavo worth of cakes...somo salt, and purhans a oan of salmon or sardines,
which is already a luxury to these simple people.
"Vhen...the season for selling the tobacco comes...almost all that Adoy
buys are a loud dress and a pair of slippers for his...duughter; cheap felt hats
for the boys; and a tapis (skirt) und a rosary for his wife. The rosary, guet
8
Corn is now one of the staple foods of the poorer Filipinos, especially in the
Visayan islands (sketch map 6). It is of course not an old time food, having
boen introduocd fron America.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
-71-
does not know how to use; but she loves to wear it about her neck...Adoy does not
neod to spend much for himself. He does not know how to walk with shoes on; and
he doesn't even wear a belt. If he has a pair of rayadillo trousers and a coco
barong (fancy shirt) for holidays and weddings he is satisfied.
For work he
wears short manta drawers and a camiseta (singlet). Hence, the rest of the money
is spent for new materials and to pay up the debt whioh he contracted when grand-
mother died, for indeed did he not bear the expenses for the funeral and the nine-
day prayers? And of course the chocolate must not be forgotten because the
Cagayanos never forget it. They are chocolate addicts. Onoe you visit a house,
no matter how poor, and regardless of the time, you are offered a very thiok
phooolate whioh you have to sip not from a cup but from a saucer!
"Another weakness of the tobacco planter is fiestas. When a new house
has been built, it must be inaugurated; the house is buisit (unclean) if it is not
given a fiesta, he says. When a child is siok, the minangilot (seer or prophetess,
usually a woman), after examining him, says, "Dasal" (possessed by a spirit).
On
the following day all the neighbors crowd into the house to pray and to partake of
a dinner and chooolate designed to appease the anger of the spirit that sent down
the ailment...there is also a rapidly disappearing oustom of putting the ... head
of a pig together with buyo (betel) and many other things under an ugly-looking
tree with a huge hole in its trunk designated by the minangilot as the abode of the
spirit that punished the sick child for playing neur its home.
"When one of the barrio lasses gets married, even the carabaos go on a
holiday. Indeed, if you happen to be the landlord, and you go out to the fields
for inspeotion, you might find ull the doors and windows of Adoy's house well
barred and the bamboo ladder laid flat on the batalun (poreh)... On the land
belonging to one of your neighbors in the town, who is of course also a landowner,

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
-72~
you find all your tenants and the tenants of other landowners crowding under a
oamarin (shed)adorned with coconut fronds. They are noisily witnessing two people
danoing the mascota (a native dance portraying courtship) barefooted and on the
bare ground to the song of a blind minstrel or minstrels singing their versos to
the accompaniment of a cinoo-oinco (native guitar) and a bamboo flute. At
one
end of the oamarin are a young woman in a white mostiza dress, and a young man in a
loose, bluok, borrowed coat, soated at the opposite ends of a rectangular table on
whioh is a Crucifix with two candles burning before it. Not far away is a very
long temporary table made of bamboo under a roofing of greon coconut leaves. The
rest of the tenants are thero; old men, women, and children. They are feasting,
while their dogs quarrel over the bones under their feet. Boda! A wedding!"
Here we have been taken for an intimate glimpse into tho eoonomio, social
and religious life of a Filipino tenant of the frontior. We see his simple needs
and tastes. We sec him, too, little touched by modern influences. Indeed, though
the Cagayanos have been nominally Christian for over three centuries, we note that
he still olings to some of the older beliefs and suorifices. On the whole the
cacique system is not burdensomo in his thinking. Only as schools reaoh out to
take his ohildren, or the gossip of the town market-place turns to seoret whisper-
ings about the rights of thc poor is there likely to be a ferment of new ideas and
ambitions to disturb the traditional round of Adoy and his kind.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
-73-
CHAPTER XII
RICH MAN AND TENANT
What of the peasant of the crowded regions, where onportunity is much
more limited for Juan de la Cruz? The same writer who gave us our Cagayan
picture has also written the story of a tenant in Nueva Ecija, one of the
1
provinoes on the rich und fertile plains north of Manila.
"The Nucva Eciju peasant," he says, "knows that he is a peasant -
paraluman. He does not regret thut he is a paraluman, but that he is a paraluman
in Nueva Ecija. But huro he was born, and here he must stuy, for he has no
money to take him to kinder lunds--like the Cugayan.
He lives with his family of five or six in a small house on a corner
of the piece of land he cultivates - big or small as it pleasod the Hacendero
(landlord or cacique) to upportion him. No matter how industrious and thrifty
he may be, he can not hope to ever own the land he labors on, nor any other
piece of land in the province, for in Nuevu Eciju and other Central Luzon
provinces, the agrioultural lands are owned by a fuw rich hacenderos, and no
tenants' money can buy suoh land.
He usually hires his work animals from the Hacendero. He keeps them
in a small enolosure at night, and gets up at four or five o'clook in the morn-
ing to let them graze under his own watchful eye, for there are no pasture lands
in the haoienda during the growing season from August to February, and if he
turned them loose, they would feed on the palay (rice). If a tenant's carabao
is even found in the rice ficld of another tenant, whether or not the animal has
1
Mariano D. Manawis, "The Life of the Nueva Ecija Poasant," in the Philip-
pine Magazine, January 1934. Romember that in Spanish "J" is pronounced 1ike
"H".

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
-74-
done any damage, the tenant pays a fine of ten cavans of palay 2 to the Hacendero -
according to the so-called "Laws of the Hacienda" - made by the Hacendero himself.
The Hacendero furnishes half of the binhi (seed); the other half comes
from the tenant.
It is sown in the seed-beds in June. When the seedlings are
large enough, and the p&ddies (irrigated fields) ready, the transplanting begins.
The tenant does not do this alone, but invites his neighbors to help him. He
pays them the so-called upang tanem (payment for planting) half of whioh comes
from him and half from the landowner.
For whatever  ount the tenant borro,s for other purposes, the Hacendero
charges him fifty per cent interest.
The hacundero will deny this, because it is
against the law, but it is true nevertheless.
. If a tenant borrows a sum of money
equivalent in value at the time to twenty cavans of palay, the Hacendero makes it
appear in his book, the item signed or thumb-marked by the tenant, that the latter
owes him thirty cavans, Such is the easy esoape from the so-called usury laws of
the Philippines!
! And on his part, the tenant takes the money at any oost and
keeps mum about it. He has no other source of income than farming, and no one
but the Hacendero would lend him the money he needs.
From the time the transplanting is finished, early August, up to the
harvest time, which comes in February, the farmer has praotioally nothing to do
but see that his ficlds ure well supplied with water. He sits at home most of
the day, giving his finger and toc-nails - lost in the mud during the plowing and
harrowing season - a ohance to regrow, or patohes his tumble-down house.
When the grain has matured, he makes another trip to the Haoendero's
office for money to pay those who will help hin out the palay and gather it in
bundles for the thrashing. The trilladora (thrashing maohine) hums in field
2 Palay is really rice-on-the-stalk, and a cavan is equal to 75 litres or
somewhat over 2 bushels.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
-75-
after field.
. Sometimes, when the farmer has no more rice to eat, he will him-
self thrash a small part of the still undivided harvest, but this is prohibited
by the Hacendero who sends out his katiwalas at night to deteot violators. If
the farmer is caught, he either forfeits the whole harvest to the landowner or
is haled to court, whenoe he goes straight to jail for theft, though he may plead
(honestly or not) that he intended to report to the Haoendero the exaot amount he
had thrashed to save his family from starvation.
Some years ago, the tenant still thrashed his palay by spreading it
beneath the feet of two or three horses driven side by side in a oirole around a
bamboo pole.
The farmer liked to do this, he was paid for thrashing the Haoen-
dero's share, and his children got a great deal of fun out of it, but in this day
of the machine, the tenant is not allowed to thrash in this manner.
.The Hacen-
dero's huge trilladora must do the job, and for every hundred cavans of palay
thrashed, the tenant pays the landlord ten cavans.
The palay pouring out of the thrashing machine is put in sacks. After
it has been weighed, the farmer hauls it - all of it - to the provinoial road,
alongside of which it is piled up and watched day and night, until the Hacendero's
truck comes along and brings it to the hacienda camarin. Then the tenant goes to
the landlord once more for his cleurance.
Generally, the farmer has had no schooling, and even if he has learned
a little reading from his mother or a gray-haired neighbor who taught the Caton
(primer), he is weak at figures. So before he goes to the office he fills his
pockets with small pebbles or grains of corn with which to count. Eaoh grain
represents a cavan of palay...
One-half of the harvest goes to the Hacendero. Then from his share,
the tenant pays the landlord his part of the binhi and other expenses... Then he
pays his personal accounts with interost, these often umounting to thirty or forty

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
-76-
cavans.
Henoe it often happens that even if the harvest comes to a hundred or
more cavans only one or two cavans remain for him and his family in payment for a
year of labor.
What about the twelve months until the next harvest?
There is no other
way: he borrows from the Hacendero at the same usurious rate of interest. And so
it comes about that the tenant's life on the haciendas of Nueva Ecija is reduced
to a state of perpetual dependence and indebtedness.
The tenant feels that something should be done about it; he thinks the
Government should do something about it, but since it does not, he sometimes
considers making the offort to take the matter into his own hands.
He gous to othor tenants and they discuss the possibility of forming
some sort of peaceful union with the aim of securing better conditions. But he is
told that before the first meeting is over they would all be arrested as "Reds" or
"Tangulans."3
nd if they escaped the ever-watchful Constabulary agents, there
is still the Hacendero. The moment he learns that a tenant is a capisanan (mem-
ber of an organization), he would expel him from the hacienda. And where could
the poor tenant go? Whore would he get the money to move to another part of the
country and establish himself there? So, generally, he deoides to slave on. As
long as his wife and his little ones, whom he loves so well, live, he will con-
tinue to bow to oppression."
This grim picture of tenant life represents the other oxtreme from the
Cagayan soene. The reasons that have made it possible were analysed earlier
(puges 20, 30-31). What was seen to be, under the conditions of old Indo-
Malayan life, a feudal system of economic organizution apparently satisfactory
1932 arose against the landowners and threatered an invasion of Manila.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
-77-
for those times, in which chief and commoner each had privileges and responsibili-
ties, has here developed in a way that gives all the advantages to the rich man.
"The cacique," an American has remarked, "is a cross between an English
country gentlemen, an American ward politiciap,and a Spanish grandee." Numbers of
landlords must be given the credit of being fine men, interested in their country
and people, and fair to their tenants. Many of their sons, too, are mingling freely
with members of the poor families who have been fortunate enough to acquire an
education. Nevertheless, the system can amount to near slavery where landlords are
grasping and there is a surplus of agricultural workers.
It is not hard for us to see why, in the modern Philippines, there is a
growing agrarian discontent:
"For the last twenty years there have been many conflicts between the
Kasama (Tagalog word for tenant) and the cacique in the Philippines.
"Today the Kasama is better oducated. He knows his rights and
privileges. He knows when his landlord is exploiting him. The Kasama
wants better food and clothing and a strong-material house instead of the
nipa shack. He wears shoes and is proud to have a phonograph. In other
words, his wants and necessities have inoreased, but his earning capacity
has remained the same. To be able to supply his increased needs, the
Kasama is asking the cacique to give him a larger share of the crop. He
is asking also a lower rate of interest on the money he borrows. The
cacique will not give what the Kasama is asking for. This is the funda-
mental cause of the conflict between the capitalist and the laborers on
the farms of the Philippines."4
When we road in the papers about agrurian troubles in the islands, we oan
be quite sure that here lies the fundamental cause. It also enables us to see why
those younger people who can get away, leave for the cities or come abroad.
The cacique system, it is further said, is a drawback to the development
of democracy.
"The tenants are controlled in their choice of candidates for eleotive
4 Maoaraig. Community Problems, pp. 103-104

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
-78-
offices. The candidate of the cacique must be the candidate of the
tenant. If the tenant does not vote in accordance with the wishes of the
cacique, the tenant may be dismissed fron his farm. Caciquism is an enemy
of demooracy because the laborers can not get fair treatment and good
wagos for their labor... Caciquism is un enemy of democracy because the
rioh have an advuntage over the poor in their representation in the
legislature... Laws that militate against the caciques are passed by the
legislature only with greut difficulty. But laws which favor the cacique,
liko those that provido better protection for property can easily pass
the legislature.
"Caciquism is an enemy of demooracy becuuse the caciques are opposed
to meusures which aim to improve the welfare of the laborers. For example,
they are op osed to the educution of the tenant's children, beoause they
want the children to be as ignorent as their parents...because educated
tenants will demund higher wages...(and) will know their rights too well,
The time ccrtuinly seems ripe, therefore, for agrarian reforms that will
bring the Philip ines more into line with modorn ideas conoerning the rights and
welfare of the individual citizen. Only thus; critics of caciquism say, can the
country develop its rich natural resources and establish a sound and stable economic
1ife.
What is the government doing about it? We have above the evidenoe of two
Filipino writers that the landowners tend to have the eur of the legislature, so
that no effective laws safeguarding the rights of the tenants have yet passed on to
the statuto books of the islands. True, under pressure from Americans and enlight-
ened Filipino opinion, usury regul tions have becn made. These say that the older
extortionate rates of interest recognized by the customary law are to be reduced to
what by modern standards ure considered fair deal ing. Yet such regulations can bo
easily avoided by an unscrupulous landlord, and the borrower is not in a position to
protest. American officials and some Filipinos have been trying to gct laws passed
that would compel all landlords to make written contracts in the dialects with the
5
Idem. pp. 194-195

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
-79-
tenants as regards loans and work agreements, also to give an annual accounting in
writing to the tenant.
One other important enactment has been made that favors the tenant. In
1915 a "rural credit division" was established within the government, with the
necessary funds to organize "rural credit associations" among the tenants and home-
steaders. This was placed in oharge of a very devoted American named Arthur W.
Prautoh, who became known as the "enemy of usurors." The soheme provided for the
formation of miniuture cooperutive bants among the peasants. By paying in a small
sum to become a shcrehold r, a poor man could borrow money to tide him over tho
lean months without resort to the money lender. So far, however, progress has been
very slow indecd. The people themsolvos are suspicious of such new-fangled ideas
introduced by strangers, and are undoubtedly discouraged by the landlords. In a
recent year the rural credit associutions, though widcly scattered, had not moro
than ninety thousand sharoholders and thirty thousand borrowers. Both this scheme
and the usury laws are likely to prove cffective only as the peasantry become more
educated and the landowners more liberal in their viewpoint, or more afraid of mass
movements.
Probebly we are somewhat shocked by this economic system, and are forming
the idea that the Phili pines is still a rather feudalistic or primitive country.
It will bc well, therefore, for us to turn our minds for a few minutes to consider
the coonomio and social systems of western countries, with their extremes of wealt.
and poverty, mansions and slums, dubious business practices under cover of the
letter of the law, sweated and child labor, political graft and gang power. Then vo
shall be saved from judging the Filipinos acoording to some ideul standard which we
ourselves may be working towards, but do not yet practice!

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
-80-
CHAPTER XIII
COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
In 1899, the total trade of the Philippines was valued at about
$34,000,000. In 1928, it had risen to near1y $290,000,000, and in 1933 stood at
180,500,000. Sugar has been easily the principal export, with coconut products,
abaca (hemp), tobaoco,embroideries, and lumber as the main sccondary exports. In
turn, the Philipnines buy cotton goods, iron and steel products, mineral oils, meat
and dairy products, automobiles, paper, wheat flour, and a great varioty of other
articles.
Where at the leginning of the American regime more than 80 per cent of
Philippine exports went to Europe and Asia and only 13 per cent to the United States,
in 1933 over 86 per cent went to the United States. During recent years, about
three quarters of all Philippine trade has been conducted with her guardian. The
primary factor in this was the establishment of reciprooal free trade relations
since 1909 (page 39). This move wes at first opposed by Filipino leaders, as they
feared that if Philippine cconomic life were too closcly cntangled with that of
America it would be impossible to secure political frecdom. Nevertheless, the
United States took upon hersulf the responsibility of developing Philippine comu erse
and industry in this way. By now, the welfarc o. many thousands of Filipinos in the
cities and industrialized districts, and the finunoes of government, havo become
almost inextricably bound up with the uxistenoe of a market for Philippine goods in
Amerioa. The meening of this for the independence issue, and the offects of tariff
and quota restrictions now being inposed by Congress will be disoussed later.
Under American guidance, an uctive department of agriculture and commeroc
has been built up within the Philippine government. Bureaus are established that
deal with the weather, navigation, soientifio research, lunds, forestry, mineruls,

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
-81-
fish and game resources, plant industry, animal industry, home economios, labor,
publio works, trade promotion and regulation, and cooperative marketing and credits.
A large staff of scientists, travelling inspectors and instruotors, engineers and
the like, now comprised almost wholly of trained Filipinos, are at work.
In the early years of the American regime, certain fundamental problems
of economic welfare were concentrated upon. Plant and animal diseases were brought
under control  s a result of scientific researoh. Experimental stations were set
up at various points to i prove the quality of ugricultural produots and of
domestio animals, to introduce new and profitablc crops, and to demonstrate machine
methods, the use of fertilizers, and the most effective ways of preparing products
for the market. A colloge of agriculture was established as part of the University
of the Philippines. Farm truining was given in the sohools. Laws were made that
would settle the ownership of lands, and conserve and develop the rich forests and
other resources of the islands. People now knew when to expect typhoons or other
bad storms, and so could batten down their houses and save their property. The
coasts were mapped, and lighthouses placed at dangerous points.
Wherever these new measures touched the traditional life of the people at
any vital spot, the conservatism alrcady spoken of became manifest, at least in the
early years. In one district, the rosidents atiacked government workers who were
sent to dig water-wells, becauso of an old belief that "any tampering with the
shell of the earth would offend the spirits." Where diseased carabaos or other
stock had to be killed, their owners resented such action. People were slow to see
why they should have to pay to get papers from the government to show thoir title
to lands that came down according to the customary modes of inheritance from their
forefathers, or why they should not be able to cut timber freely in the forests.
And so it has been in phase after phase of modern economic and social change. Only
by a process of educetion or clear demonstration that benefits were forthcoming,

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
-82-
havo tho government activities been made effective.
Suoh conservatism tends to be manifested among people the world over when
an established order of things is being threatened by innovations. Nevertheless we
can well realize why Juan de la Cruz is particularly suspicious of ideas introduced
by strangers, whether American or Filipino, when we look back to the oppressions
and exaotions of Spanish days. He is learning only slowly that a government can be
disinterested, thot promisos are not made to be broken, and that there are people
outside his immediute kin who may be trusted and can have his intereste sincerely at
heart. Meantimo he tends to prefer things he knows, even if almost unendurably bad,
to unknown things backed only by promises of better times to come.
One of the first ccts of the American authorities was to form a Philippine
bureau of labor. Tho growth of largo commeroial and industrial enterprises such as
sugar centrals, lumber mills, tobucoo factories, und the business of transportation
by land and sea opened up thousands of wago-earning jobs in the islands. The
bureau has served to protect the workers from exploitation by employers or by un-
scrupulous labor leaders, regulating conditions of work, mediating in disputes,
inspecting plantations and factories, and supervising the emigration of laborers to
Hawaii. Unfortunatoly the industrial enterprises are usually in districts far from
the crowded agricultural provinces. It is therefore impossible for many of those
most in need of wago-carning jobs to move thither because of transportation costs.
Nevertheless there is an incrcasing movement of seasonal labor in the islands from
centors of unemployment to rugions where agricultural and industrial work for wages
is available, involving perhaps several hundrod thousand people annually.
A tradition has grown up in the islands that the Filipino is not a good
wage-laborer. Thus some sugar planters and other omployers of labor have claimed
that Filipinos are unroliuble. Many, including Filipino capitalists, have urged
from time to time that Chinese laborers bo introduced to meet their needs.

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
-83-
Now it can be amply shown that, apart perhaps from physical weakness
caused by malnutrition or widespread parasitio diseases, the Filipinos can work as
well as any other people when the need arises. The non-Christians of the mountain
districts, men and women, labor constantly to win food from the terraced mountain-
sides of their rugged oountry. Where the Christian lowlander has something
essential or intoresting to be done, he too can bend his beck with a will. In
Hawaii, the opinion is that the Filipino plantation laborers are "hardworking" and
"thrifty" rather than indolont and spendthrift as sontiment has it in their home-
land.
But the compulsory lubor services of Spunish times and the caciquism
already desoribed has been anything but a training ground for vigorous application
to work. Enough labor to supply necessities, und why work even for those if your
family cun support you - this is the philosophy that modern ideas have only just
bogun to shake. Where the tenant or members of his family go out to carn money,
they may remain at the job just as long as it takes then to accumulate what they
want, or else merely for the time available betwcen planting and harvost. So the
employer of labor brands them unreliablo for his purposes. It is only along such
lines that we can understand why hundreds of thousands of poorer Filipinos are idle
and needy, and the promoters of industrial enterprises have wanted to introduce
Chinese.1 The solution of this labor diffioulty by engaging the energies of
seasonal laborers, providing cheup and quick transport, and improving conditions in
industrial centers so as to attract more permanent workers is one of the main
economic problems of tho islunds.
1 Even in 1933, before the strict limitation of Philippine oxports to the United
States, the Bureau of Labor ostimated that there were more than 853,O00 unemployed
agrioultural and industrial laborers in the islands, a growth of nearly a quarter
million from the previous year.

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
-84-
Nevertheless, Filipino eoonomists have asserted that there is an even more
urgent problem as regards industrial advance. "The wheel that is lacking in our
.car of progress," says a recent report of the Bureau of Commerce, "is capital.
Filipino leaders have long recognized this fact, and are giving all inoentives in
the form of legislation and assurance so as to invite foreign oapital to take
interest in our...cconomic devolopment."
The Filininos here ure faced with a dilemma. On the one hand, their
people have not bccn rich enough to promote large soale industries themselves, even
where they may have acquired the enthusiasm und skill. As already pointed out,
commeroial development has tended sincc eurly Spanish days to be monopolized by non-
Filipinos. On tho other hand, there is an increasing resentment among Filipinos
against having forein control over suoh an importent phase of their national life.
It is cstimated that there are threo thousand Chinese firms in Manila
and seven thousand in the provinces. These are nearly all small retail trading
stores; but therc are also a number of large Chinese merchandise houses and
faotories in Manila and the other citics. Certuin businesses such as making shoes,
drying fish, und smoking ham are almost ontirely in their hands. Japanese and
Hindus also tuke part in the retail trade. Tho Jupaneso practically control the
commeroial fisheries, and they buy or lease land on which to grow agrioultural
products for market, notably abacu (hemp) at Davao. The wholesale trade is mainl.
in the hands of Europoun and American firms, likewise the public utilities and the
big commeroial industries. Here and there smell Filipino traders, usually women,
compete with the Orientals. Yct they are not often successful. If they start
business in their own locality it is difficult for thom to keep their relativos
from bocoming non-paying dependonts, while if they go elsewhere they cre mistrusted
as strangers. It is a strikin; faot that the Filipinos usually patronize a Chinose
merchant in preference to their own countrymen. A few Filipinos espeoially in

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
-85-
Manila have become outstanding men. But other than this, the people are merely
investers in their country's commercial life if they are rioh, or else subordinate
employees, laborers and factory hands. A Filipino writes of this:
"The greatest argument against Philipnine independence is that the
For this roason, many Filipino leaders urge their people to compete with the
foreigners and support only Filipino enterprises.
One oxprcssion of this fecling has been a rosolute stand by the legislature
against allowing foreign corporations to aoquire large holdings of land in the
islands. Certain mericun interests havo claimed that this makes the development
of large soale industry impossible, hence have turned their investments elsewhere.
Another factor in keeping capital away has been the political unoertainty. Before
independence was in sight, investors were doubtful of what the future would bring.
Now it has been nrovided for, they do not know what laws regarding industry and
commerce the Filipinos will build up. above all, there has come the world
depression, bringing a glut in the products which the islands give to the world and
a growth of economic nationalism expressed in tariff and quota restrictions.
The paramount question for Philippine commerce and industry sinoe 1933,
dwarfing problems of labor, cupital and ownership, hes been to find adequate export
markets. The independence aot and other measures have already closed Amerioan
markets considerably. Iniced, a primo factor in bringing the independence issue to
a head at Washington was the desire of mainland commeroial interests to exoludo
Philippine sugar, tobacco and other products, as well as Filipino labor.
This has not only caused consternation among those with a direct stake i
the commerce of the islunds. It has also arousud many disinterested people, on the
grounds that the United States is thus shirking the rosponsibilities sho assumed in
2
Macaraig, Community Problems, r. 56

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
-86-
Orienting Philippine economic life around a free trade relationship with herself
(page 80). Where, earlier, it might have been possible for the Philippines to
renew trade with European countries, or develop new markets in Asiatic countries,
economic nationalism now prohibits this, exoept perhaps in the case of Japan.
Closing of Americun markets, therefore, they olaim, would "doom the islands,
economioally, politically and socially; it would beggar the people and destroy their
Or else it would force the
Filipinos to become commercially dependent on Japan.
Such economic realities lie belind tho efforts most Filipino leaders are
now making to maintain trade relationships with the United States to the fullest
possible degree. They say thut many yuars will be needed to make the fundamental
changes in standards of living, industrial activities, and government finance that
must take place if such commerce is extensively curtailed. Not a few Filipinos
are urging that independence be postponed longer than now provided for, or even
that some permanent partnership bo established with the United States perhaps akin
to the British system of "dominion status." Practioally all Filipinos regard any
rapprochement betwecn the Philippines and Japan with apprehension. Senator Claro
Reoto, president of the convention clected to draft a constitution for the trial
independence period, stated in a public speech as follows:
"We are in the Pacific, and the real danger for us,
the danger that impends and against which the Filipino people
must be ready to muster all their resources as well as their
statesmanship and patriotism, is not the economic collaboration
of America, which we should fostor and stimulate, but such other
economic ascendancy, such 'Monroeism' as in view of geographical
factors will mean for us and our posterity our economio pauperism
and our political extinction. The danger is real and we must be
ready to meet it with courage and determination." 4
3
See F.V.Field, Economic Handbook of the Pacific Area, Doubleday, Doran
and Co., New York, 1934, p. 270.
4 Reported in thc Philippines Free Press, Manila Weekly, September 22, 1934.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
-87-
In other words, the independonce issue, whioh hitherto had purely a politioal
flavor, has now had added to it economio and internetional ingredients that make
it, in the opinion of many folk inoluding an increasing number of Filipinos, not
only less palatable but evon exceedingly dangerous.
Closely linked with the modern commeroial situation in the islands are
tho finanoes of government.
Taxes, customs dutios, license foes, and other
souroes of income derived from business and industry provide the bulk of the
annual government revenue of upproximately forty million dollars. Here at least
the poorer folk scorc.
. Apart from paying a cedula or head tax, they are more
or less free of public dues. Yet this means that official services suoh as edu-
cation, health activities and public works depend to a very large extent for their
existence and further development upon non-Filipino enterprise in the islands and
adequate overseas markets. The present condition of affairs makes it diffioult
to see how an independent Philippines could finance any extension of its govern-
mental activities to cover defensive services such as are now provided by the
United States, likewise diplomatio representation in other countries.
We thus see that the Philippines is faced today with many economic pro-
blems, some akin to those elsewhere and others of a special nature, notably as
conneoted with beooming an independent nation. Fopulation and resources are in a
state of unbalonce, allowing the islands to be relatively cmpty and undeveloped.
The mass of thc people are moving only slowly from their traditional passivity and
their indifferenoe to modern economic ideas. The old Malayan order of society,
exploited by some of the rich people, tends to prevail, though not without the
growth of disoontent.
. There is us yet no extensive middle class of Filipinos
between the caoique and the tao. The comnercial life on whioh such a class tend
to rest is in the hands of foreigners. External commerce and the finances of the
country aro at a rather unoertain stage, being bound up with politioal and inter-
national issues.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
-88-
In somo rospeots the Filipinos as a whole are in & better economio
position than numbers of other peoples. The great majority still live olose to
the soil, and that a soil made fertile by the warm breath of the tropics. World
depressions and commercial orises barely touoh them at any essential point. Un-
employment means lowered standards of living but rarely sturvation, while for
many suoh people the curtailment ef industry and government means merely less of
new and foreign things. In their villages and nipa huts they live a more or
less satisfying round of social life amid their kinfolk, for the most part knowing
little as yet of anything different.
But to the Filipinos of the cities and comercially developed areas,
and especially those more educated and having western living standards,- that
is, the folk among whom Amerioan efforts at botterment have met with success, -
it is a time of great diffioulty. Spokesmen of the Filipinos have consistently
olaimed that their countrymen would be willing to bear uny pains and saorifices
that might be necessary to obtain independenoe. Nevertheless the economic
situation is such as to challenge the best thought, both of Filipinos and of
those Americans who have a sense of responsibility towards them, in order that
rash or selfish policies which may bring misery and retrogression may be avoided.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
-89-
CHAPTER XIV
WHAT OF SELF-GOVERNMENT?
The United States, wo have seen ( chapter VII), sought to organize
among the Filipinos a stable, demooratic government, as a preparation for future
nationhood. Again and again, American leaders have stated that "the Philippines
are for the Filipinos." Independence was promised as soon us the people showed
themselves capable of maintaining a responsible and efficient administration.
For years, now, Filipino spokesmen have insisted that this requirement
has been fully met.
"Missions" have visited Washington to press for "immediate,
complete and absolute independence"; assemblies and demonstrations have been
organized in the islands; and numerous writers and orators have deolared with
fervor that "independence is the only way to national self-realization," and
that "only thus oan the four centuries of struggle and privation in the interests
of liberty come to fruition." Some have even claimed that "the present laok
of freedom prevents any movement for social and economic reform or self-oriticism
among the Filipino people."
Americans familiar with the Philippines have been divided in their
opinions. A certain number have declared that the Filipino leaders are fully
capable of taking the administration of affairs into their hands.
Some have
said that the United States oan do no moro toward teaching them, and they must
learn the rest by trying themselvos out; any delay means further distrust and
animosity toward Amorica. Others, inoluding various investigators sent from
Washington during tho post-war Republioan regime, have denied that the conditions
originally luid down were near fulfilment. For a long time to come, they say,
independenoe would meroly introduce rule by an oligarohy of the few educated and
rich folk.
They also assert that economio and political developments in the

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
-90~
larger world are such that launohing a small people upon an independent life
would be to their detriment.
Congress, by passing the Philippine Independence (Tydings-McDuffie) Aot
of Maroh 24, 1934, has now granted freedom to the Philippines, to be realized
after a period of trial and transition. The Filipino legislature has accepted
its terms, subject to possible revision that will give them greater economic
security.
 Short of some unforeseen development in American-Filipino relationship,
or in the wider Pacifio scene, independence comes in 1944.
Nevertheless the problem remains as to how far there is a prospect of
sucoessful Filipino self-government.
. Arc the Filipino leaders right, or are the
forebodings of not u fuw puople that this will "expose the work of a generation to
almost certain destruction" justified? We cannot, of course, be seers and look
into the future. But we oun examine the political situation to date, and so be
in a position to form some more intelligent, if tentative opinions.
The Jones Aot of 1916, we noted, gave tho Filipinos the power to legis-
late for themselves. This has been subjeot to a veto by the Amerioan governor-
general, or in oase of un uppeal, by the President of the United States. as in
America, politioal parties were formed that competed for the local votes and sought
control of the Senate and House of Ruprescntatives. Amid the rise and fall of
suoh groupings, one lalelled tho Nutionalist Party or variations of that name has
been dominant. Its leader is Manuol Quezon, now President of the Philippine
Senate, and probably the best known of living Filipinos.
.Other outstanding
figures in Philippine politics have been Sergio Osmena, Manucl Roxas, and Claro
Recto. The revolutionary general Aguinaldo is still alive, but does not take
active part in politios exoent in times of orisis. Then his word, and tho organ-
ization of veterans who look to hin as their leader, carry great weight.
Sone imericans oritioal of the Filipinos have said that the legislature

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
-91-
is a body comprised of Spanish and Chinese mostizos.
Many of the leaders such as
Quezon and Osmena can be so olassified, it is true.
But this does not make them
any the less patriotic Filipinos (see chapter III).
Furthermore, among the legis-
lators are inoluded not only Christians from all parts of the islands but also
Mohammedan and pagan members. The legisluture can thus claim fairly enough to be
widely representative of the Filipino people.
The Jones Act placed the executive power in the hands of the governor-
general, as happens with the President in tho United States. In the very liberal
Demooratic regime to 192o, the govornor-general mado : practice of submitting
appointments and other m.tters of cxeoutive government for confirmation to the
leaders of the mujority party in the legislature.  Council of State was formed
comprising the legislative and executive chiefs, with the governor-general us
president.
This meant thut the Filipinos were ut the time virtually self-governing.
Furthermore, the Amerioans cmployed in the dopartments of government were nearly
all repluced by Filipinos, or else withdrew voluntarily to take part in the Great
War. This is often referred to us the "Filipinization" of the service.
Wo may note that the Filipinos showed their loyulty and friendship to
the United Statcs in a practical way during the puriod of the war. Numbers who
wore in America onlisted in the army und navy.
. it home, the Filipinos subscribed
to liberty louns and Red Cross funds. They offored to send soldiers to the front.
Yet difficulties of trancnortution were such thut it was impossiblc to do more
than put those who cnlisted through u pcriod of training.
. In 1919, a destroyer
named "The Rizal" was 1 unched in Sun Francisco end put into service manned by
Filipinos under Americ an officers; but the United States did not nccept the offer
of tho Philippine logislaturc to pay for such u ship.
In 1920 the Ropublicans roturned to power.
. A special mission headed by
Major-General Leonard Wood was sent to investigate conditions in the Philippines.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.97)
-92-
A historian says of this:
"Its report constituted a document of importance in the history of
the Islands. It found much to commend in the political progress of the
Filipinos; public order was excellent, with the exception of minor dis-
turbances in the Moro regions. The insular prison system was a model...
The development of the sohool system had been phenomenal...the Islands
had pussed through u period of greut prosperity, ulthough then in the
midst of a commercial depression. The gunoral contontment of the
Filipinos and their spirit of loyalty to the United States were beyond
praisc.
"In some ruspucts, however, conditions were fur from satisfactory.
The Commission ronorted that the constructive work which characterized
the period of 100/ to 1913 wus not continued in the period that succeeded.
It judgcd that mericuns had boen too rapidly and too fully departed from
the service; th t there had been a decline in the quelity of public
scrvice through th croation of ton-ho vy porsonnel und the too froquent
placing of influenco above fficiuncy by the boginning of a political
burcuucracy. Taxution and expenditures had very groutly increased. The
courts wore very much in urrears in thcir trial of cuses and there were
numcrous complaints as to the udministrution of justioc. Putlic health
had suffcrcd...
"It wus, however, in financiul affairs that the Mission found most to
criticize. The hilippine National unk, through unwise end dishonest
administration, was in a most sorious condition... The Currency Reservo
Fund...kept on deposit in New York...had been illegally transferred to
the Philiprine National Bank and dissiputed... The Treasury was
exhausted. Government expenses were in excess of income and financial
hankruptoy was imninent, unloss tho imediate assistance of forcign
cupital were obtuined."1
This roport ws resonted by the Fili inos. hen, immodiately afterwards,
General Wood was sent to be governor-general, relutions becume very strained.
Nevertheless he suoc udk d in struightening out fin ncitl affairs und correcting
other weelmesses. In 192s, the conflict cume to u head. The Filipino members of
the Council of State resigned, und apocaled to Wushin ton Lgainst General Wood's
encroaohment upon their powers of self-government, us cllowud by the Demoorats.
Congress and the Presidont declared, howover, that the uxeoutive authority lay with
the governor-general and not vith the legisluture. In viow of this decision, inde-
1 D. P. Burrows, History of the Philinpines, D. S80-381.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
-93-
pendence was advocated ith groater vigor than cver. Under the later governor-
generals a happier spirit of cooperation developed, especially as authority was once
more returned in considerable measure to the Filipinos. But in the eyes of the
local leaders nothing short of complete autonomy could be satisfactory.
Besides this central organization of government, the Americans built up
a system of looal administration, using Filipino leadership. In this, they took as
a basis the geographic units organized by Spain. The Philippines today are divided
into forty-nine "provinces." Of these, thirty-eight are Christian provinces in
whioh the governor and certain other officials are elected by the people. The other
eleven are special non-Christian provinoes in which the governor is appointed by the
governor-general in consultution with the logislature. Each province has a provin-
cial board that cares for the locul affairs, also a treasurer, fiscal (publio
attorney), commander of constabulary, and other officials. Such regional governmeri.
have been an excellent training ground for Filipino leaders. The departments of
justice, commerce, public works, health, education and the like with headquarters in
Manila also have representatives in the various districts.
Therc are two "chartered cities" in the Philiprines, Manila and Baguio.
Their mayors are appointed by the govermment, but otherwise they more or less
control their own affairs. The Christian provinces are divided into nearly nine
hundred "municipalities," with clected presidents and councillors to care for the
affairs of the looal groups of barrios. There are also more than three hundred
"munioipal districts" whero the population is scattered or more backward. These are
nearly all in the non-Christian provinoes, and the offioials are appointed in con-
sultation with the leaders in the villages. Some of the more advanced Moro and
pagan communities are allowed to vote for their reprosentatives, these being then
oonfirmed in office according to the law. Each municipality or municipal distriot
has its treasurer, justice of the peace, chief of police, and school teaohers. Where

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
-94-
formerly such posts in non-Christian areas have been held by Christian Filipinos,
nowadays they are more and more being given to educated individuals from among the
1o0al fo1k.
There are thus in the Philippines thousands of officials from the
governor-general down. Their activities would form a large study in themselves.
Some observers see as perhaps the weakest point in the system the faot that the
fundamental unit of Philippine social life, the barrio, is not separated out for
special political organization. At most uny barrio will have a counoillor on the
munioipal council, though this is not always so. But what really happens is that
the barrio still governs itself according to the old Malayan method: authority lies
with the heads of familics und the leading men, the caciques!
At the eleotions of 19l2, less than a quarter million Filipinos exercised
their votc; in 1922 over threc quarters of a million; and in 1928, nearly a
million and a quarter. This indicates how a political consciousness is emcrging
among the people. So far, only men have the vote. Numbers of educated Filipino
women have been oampaigning to have their sex included with the voters. Recently
the legislature confirmed this, in spite of violont opposition by more conservative
politioal leaders. A protest wus raised again when it was being written into the
trial constitution, and the matter seems now to depend upon tho result of a
plebisoite. Some people have facctiously observed that, secing Filipino women ar
the business managers in home life, they should also be given the business of
running the country:
It thus appoars that the Philippines havo a nationally organized political
system. The "administrative code" is so framed that the special provinoes and
municipal districts created to deal with the problcms of non-Christians can be
converted into regular provinces and municipalities as they bocome ready for this.
Apart from the governor-general and a handful of mericuns in partioular posts, the

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
-95-
whole system has been for years curried on by Filipinos.
The real issues are, therefore, whether Filipino leaders have sufficient
training and integrity to take over the final responsibilities, sinking local and
personal differences to the extent that they interfere with the national good.
Also whether the masses are sufficiently educated in political torms to choose wise
leuders.
In this connection there is a danger thut we shall attempt to measurc
Filipino affuirs by sone iduel political standard, domocrutic or otherwisc, instead
of by the ro litius of politic] life in other countrius that manage to got along
independently. Factionalism, selfish leudership, graft und other undesirable
aspeots of politics are not unknown in the great western nations. "Stable" govern-
ment, or "offective domocrucy" arc difficult to measure. It seems true that in the
Philippines the cacique roup have a dominant voice; that there are partisan
politios; that an orator who apreals to omotions can sway the crowd regardless of
his reel ability; and that the mass of the people are yet relatively passive. But
what of the indopendent countrics? A Filipino philosopher reccntly remarked with
irony: "When the peopl ure rocdy for self-goverrmont they are roady for no govern-
ment."2
On the whole, the Filipinos have veloo  heartily the merican ideas of
political freedom : nd denocracy, the more so after the oppression of Spanish times.
But it is out of the Melayan system of life, with its localism und feudalism, its
own peculiar advantages end defects, thit the Ihilippine state hus to be built. ..
wholesale transition to mericun political conditions cannot be expected, for thes
have grown out of the special circunstances of thc United States history. If
indepondenoo wuits on this, it cannot come for a very long tine, if at all - the more
2
Ignacio Manlapaz, "Thoughts on Ponuler Governrent," in the Philippine Magazine,
March 1930

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
-96-
so sinoe .merican political life itself is in a state of constant modification,
offering no fixed model.
Perhaps the only safe answer to the question as to whether the Filipinos
are politically reudy to control their own affairs is that un actual try-out alone
can show. It muy be that they can curry on where the Anoricans loave off, sustain-
ing a national system of ov rnmont that is unified and solvent. Filipino leaders
olaim that Christian and non-Christiun, Taalog, Ilocano and the rest are now
safely welded into a political whole; thet revitalized Malayan institutions can bear
the structure of modern overnmient; and that there ure Filirinos sufficiently
trained to assune all posts and rusronsibilities so fir h ld by norioans.
On the other hand, it may be that th Philiy ines will have to take the
troubled road whioh the former Spanish colonies in centrel and south Amerioa havo
travelled in working out their nationnood, and which is being trod by Cuba today:
that of factionalism an rcvolution.
We cannot know for sure until tho tost comes whether Filipino unity is us
yet a thoroughly sound grovth, or more a product of grievance and emotionalism;
whether the Filipinos who tolay are "billing an cooing" together over the indenend-
once issue will not later be "tilling anl booin," in view of the political plums
to be won. Both internal re djustments and exturnal relationships involve a host
of problems for any leuders ho ar. placed by thcir compatriots at the head of
affoirs, and the wise courre of cction in rogard to some of them will surcly leul
to unpopulerity. However that may be, the prosent srokesmen of the Filipinos hav
saic unhesitatingly that they are vi!lin: to muke "all nocessary sacrifices;" that
a governmont by their own peorle, however bad, is prefer bl to the best government
any alien ruler can provide.
The political future of the Philippincs is made particularly obscure, of
course, by the fact that the Filininos aro not working out their independent natior-

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
-97-
hood off by themselves. There is far more involved than whether they are now
capable of orderly and successful self-government.
In the last chapter, economic
issues were reviewed that affect vitally the welfare of the people and the finances
of the country. Furthermore, the Philippine destiny is bound up with the whole
complex skein of international affairs in the Orient. A student of political
developments has recently spoken of the Philippines as "a pawn in the game" of Far
Eastern affairs in which the United States, Great Britain and her dominions,France,
Holland, the U.S.S.R., Jupan and China comprise the major pieces. American with-
drawal, he says, will cause a further urcet in the historical equilibrium of
relationships among these states already badly shaken by the emergence of
Manchoukuo, a d in the now realignment the Philippines may merely pass over to
be dominated by some other power.
It is this wider set of circumstances that has caused many folk, including
an inoreasing nunber of Filipinos, to shake their heads over the independence issue.
Among all but the diehard advocutes of freedom, the words "immediate and absolute"
have been dropped from the independence slogan, and Jupan, not America, has becomo
the "big bad wolf."
Already it has becn pointed out that economic reciprocity with
the United States is being adrooited. Where at first enthusiastic plans were rud
to guaranteo the indopendence of the Philippines by un international treaty, there
is now a growing scupticism us to the effectiveness of such an agreemont, and an
increasing desire to maintein the presont defensive arrangements of the United
States.
. "The sanctity of truaties is but a dream," stated Pedro Guevara,Filipino
rusident commissioner in Washington, when he left Manila recently to take up his
duties; "We cun not afford to be too nutionalistic, and we should view our situatig
from a realistic point of view, otherwise I doubt very much that we will pull
through during the transition period."3
He advocated postponement of independere
3
Philippine Maguzine, December, 1934, p. 522.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
-98-
for a quarter century instead of merely ten years. Other Filipinos have suggested,
as already noted, that the islands have a permanent "dominion status." Political
self-determination at home rather than oomplete independence now seems to be the end
in view.
Such a swing of opinion has been rather misunderstood in merioa. Many
people have thought it a "trick" of Filipino politiciuns, designed to get all the
benefits and avoid all the responsibilities of independence. In reality, it is a
sign of the timos: in cconomic and internutional terms 1930 is already remote.
Nevertheless, an important noint can be made ag: inst some of the new Filipino ideas.
Should the island governnent have complete control over its affairs, while the
United States ussumes rosponsibilitios militury or otherwiso for Filipino actions,
it is conocivuble tht mericans may become involved in international difficulties
not of thoir malking. hs a writer in tho magazine Time has put it, they would be
carrying "the white man's burden without the white man's authority." During the
transition period now provided for, there are safoguards to cover this: the consti-
tution must be upproved by the Prusident, also laws relating to cortain vital
matters; therc is to vc a United Status High Commission'r in the islands, though
with less powers thun the prusent governor-genural; and, by a proclamation of the
President, thc United States may intcrvone in Phili  ine affairs if such action is
deemed necussary. No doult, shoull it become ultimately dusiruble, some arrangement
could be worked out akin to that found sutisfactory within the British Commonw alt
of nations whereby countries like Canada, australia and New Zeuland control thcir
internal affairs as nations while yet being part of a larger wholc.
The political lestiny of the Philipines is thus depondent on forces which
it remains for the future to unravol. As with the cconomic problums, thero is ne.
for close and realistic study by unuricans and Filirinos of how Philippine nation-
hood oan best be fostered.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.99)
-99-
CHAPTER XV
SOME SOCIAL PROBLEMS
Nations are thought of as advanced or backward according to the physical,
mental and social welfare of their citizens. In the previous sections a number of
speoial problcms related to this have been mentioned: they concern the health,
religion, orderliness and education of the Filipinos. We must examine these more
closely.
Health
A mujor task th t tho merican administrators set themselves was to
improve the physical condition of the Filipino people. Hospitals and dispensaries
were established throughout the islands, and stuffed with Filipino doctors and
nurses as fast as these could be trained. The towns and villages were cleaned up.
Researoh wes conducted into the causes and curo of tropical diseases, with wonder-
ful results. Efforts were made not only to enforce laws relating to sanitation and
health, but also to convert the peo lo to modern m dical ideas so as to make the
laws really effective. Hygiene has been from the first a muin subject in the
schools.
By now, smallpox und bubonic plague, scourgos of the Spanish period, are
almost unknown. Cholera is under completo control. Malaria has decreased by
perhaps fifty per cent. The educated peo le are thoroughly alive to hygienic ideas.
Nevertheless the Filipino death-rate is still high as compured, say, with
that of the United States.1 Dysentery, tuberculosis, beriberi, tyrhoid fever and
malaria takc particular toll. Poor food and intestinal parasites sap the vitality
1
Aocording to the Bureau of Health, the Philirpine birth rate in 1931 and 1932 w:
about 35 per 1000 of population and the death rate 19 per 1000. The corresponding
figures for the Unitod States were about 17.5 and 11, and for Japan 32 and 19.

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.97)
-100-
of many of the living. eyond a certain  oint, the medical worker meets among the
less educated folk with the conservatism or indifferenoe already spoken of. Improve-
ment in health conditions from now forward must largely await fundamental changes
in traditional habits of eating, disposing of garbage and the like within family
and community, and in beliefs regarding sickness and health. Thcse are taking place
only very slowly.
Religion
We noted how the ideus rogarding spirits, magic, saorificos and other
elements of the old religion, still mersisting among the agans, were given a new
form rather than entirely destroyed by the medicval Christianity brought by the
friars to the majority of the Filir inos. They still tond to dominate the thought
and emotion of the Christian peasentry. s Kizal suid of the folk of his day, many
a Filipino is accustomed "to irrigute his fields in the dry seuson not by means of
canals, but with masses and rayers; to pruserve his stock during an epidomio with
holy wator, exorcisms, und benedictions..."
A first move of the United Statos wus to guarantoc religious freudom in
the islands. Today, thore ure numbers of Christian denominations reprosented among
the Filipinos, though the Roman Cctholic osily redominates. Mission work hes been
started with vigor by C tholies und rotestants in the non-Christian areas. Though
progress is slow, they claim meny converts lartioularly among the rugans; ond ticy
are doint, some splondid lucational and medionl work.
The Mohanmcdun problem, which historically has bulked co large, secms now
to be of waning importance. This upmears mainly cue to the great increase in the
Christinn porulction, and to the fuct that muny Christian migrants from the north
are settling in the Mohammodan areas, thus bruaking u their solidarity. The gover. -
ment has nov tekon over mch of the seoulur ower oncu  ossussed by tho sultans.
Undoubtedly, too, there is a growing toleranoo butween the Christiins end the

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.97)
-101~
Mohammedans: a rospcct for cach othors' belief's and customs, and a sense of common
Fili ino loyalty. S oradio outbreaks still occur undor the stress of Mohammedan
religious frenzy. Furthermore, any undue pressure xerted by the Christian majority
uron the non-Christians, Mohammedan and :agan, could well provoke general hostiliti:
onco more. Yet tho present trond is for non-Christian Fili inos to participate morc
and more along with the Christians in working out a common Phili ine life and
nationhood.
A spectaculur fe ture of hili inc nistory, ts of that of numbers of other
orpressed or changing eo lon, has been th: rise of nutive religious cults. Those
were spoken of in conncction with the Spunish riod. During the Philip ine
revolution a grou of Fili ino churcimen troke way from the Cutholic church and
formed an inderendent fuith bused on the Cutholio orgunization and ritual. Its
followers are callod Aglipayans, after tne name of its founder, Aglipay. The move-
ment olains oven today to have two million adherents, though it seems to bo on the
wane excert rerhaps in north Iloces where it w s founded. a stranger sect which has
been much in the news is callel the Colorun roligion, a name coming apparently from
the Latin rhrase sucula soculorum. At oue time, the Colorum luaders cluimed that
Jose Rizal wes to return to w rth  nd be crowned king. They built a large tank und
nemed it the "waters of Jordan," n.  ch man had an anting-anting or magio ch rm.
At last, in their re oratione for the new heaven and earth, they ran foul of the
constabulary tnd the moveent w s sup ressed. But the Colorums ure still wider r ad
over the islends. Recently one fervent rouy of them wi ed out u constabulary rost.
Other sects und secret sociutius of u more or luss bizurre nature spring up from
time to time, an carry on thcir activities both in the Philinvines and among
Filipinos ov rscas.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
-102-
Law and Justice
Juan de la Cruz has some right to be rather puzzled today as to how he
should or should not behave. Upon the old Indo-Malayan customs have been super-
imposed first a set of Spanish laws and legal  rocedures and then a set that are a
result of .merican influenoes.
Much of the barrio life of the Philippines is still governed by the old
"customary law" - the unwritten but cherished ways of marrying, inheriting property,
adoption, behaving towards relutives, and the like. These ure usually interpreted
and enforced by the community Iders and leaders. In our own merican society we
have many such traditional customs. No policeman is needod to get us to eat turkey
at Thanksgiving, or to comicl us to shako hands on meeting friends. The Filipino
practices connected with dobts and tenantry are rooted in the customary law. Where
anyone infringes such hoary regulations, he or she comes under a ban of public
disapproval or may cven be thought due for punishment by the spirits. Unluss,
therefore, a person is pr pared to leave tho community, it is to his advantage and
comfort to obey.
These rules of the family and burrio have had one fatal weakness. They
varied more or less widcly from groun to group. Where in old times a dispute trose
between two comnunitics, th. usual vay of showing whose ideas were more correct was
to resort to war.
The Spaniards, in ccifying and unifying the Philippines, had to curb t
absolute rowers of the local leaders and establish courts where any disputes that
in old days would have brought vwar could be settled. They went further, and ii.. oron
on the Filipinos a number of now laws which were folt to bo for the benefit of the
country or necessary for their government. To enforce these, they used soldiers,
civil guards, and prisons. Sometimes suoh laws run lirectly counter to the Indo-
Malayan customs. Thus the old practice at marriage w s for the family of a bride-

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
-103-
groom to give presents to that of a bride. The Spanish statute law, following
old European custom, stated that a bride must be accompanied by a dowry.
Aotually
in this case the customary law has proved the more powerful. Today the rural
Filipinos, even in Hawaii, practice it regardless of the written law; though among
the eduoated people
American ideas are prevailing and the oustom is now going out
of existence. But in muny other instanoes of such conflict the Spanish law was
vigorously enforoed. With thc coming of law courts a new profession opened out
to Filipinos, that of abocudo or luwyer.
It has been suid that, short of a cock-fight, thc Filipino of the older
generation loves nothing so much us the wordy buttling of two lawyers. Neverthe-
less, the ordinary folk huv beon exocedingly suspicious of getting entangled in
the alien Icgal process. In Spanish days, the rich man could dominate the court.
No poor man was in a position to seck justioce, unless by chunce he had a patron or
powerful friend to back him. At best he was liable to be heavily involved in
debt to his lawyer. This suspicion of courts and lawyers carries over to the
present, and is only slovly brcaking down. Where trouble occurs, every offort
will be made by the people to sottle the matter themselves according to traditional
custom.
A point that the ordinary folk find it hard to understand is the im-
personal character of the modorn luw. Where among thomsolvos a breach arises, the
aggrieved party reccives, or takes by force wh t is rugarded as fair compensation.
This, so to speak, heals the trouble and re-establishes a balance of rolation-
ships. But if they take a grievance to court and win their case, they often get
no return. The accused person goes off to prison, or if there is a fine the
government keeps it. Until thoy know something more of modurn ideas, this seoms
to them very poor sutisfaction for the wrong committed.
The Amerioun uuthorities sought to refashion tho legal system taken over

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
-104-
from Spain so thut thoro would be justice for all. Yet their coming was the
signal for a flood of now laws to inundute the Filipino. Ho had to register the
birth of his ohildren, got a lioense to trade, report any sale of his stock, bury
his doad under presoribed conditions - in faot, for his own good, to submit his
life at almost all points to government supervision.
We of tho wostorn oountries are almost unconsoious of the many laws and
by-laws we obey from day to day, such as respeoting traffic signals or lining up
in oues at the theatre. But if a group of Bantu tribesmen from Africa came among
us and compelled us with  uns and prisons to follow their spcoial ideas of what is
right and wrong, good and bud, we might have somothing of the sengation that the
Filipino peasant has experienoed. Only with oducation does ho gradually come to
know what it is all about, nd bey it in the same spirit that he does his cus-
tomary law.
Today, tho Philippines is covered with a notwork of judicial institutions.
any trouble not settled by the family or tho village folk, likowise any serious
crime, is brought to tho local justice of the peacc. One of these officers is in
cach district, and is aidcd by municipul policernon and if necussary by the Philip-
pine constabulery. If it is not within his power to settle the oase, or if there
is an appeal, it gocs to a court of first instuncc. Such u tribunal meets periodi.
cally and is presidcd over by a judgo appointed for cach rogion. The lawyers get
to work on thc caso in this oourt.
 If an accusud man is too poor to afford an
advocate, the judge will appoint one of the lawy rs pr sont to serve without pay.
Thero is no system of triul by jury in the Philippines, as this is not thought
possible or desirable. But the judge has oureful instructions as to his powers
and may, if he feels it nocessary, appoint assessors to help him. A convioted
person may appenl to a Supreno Court in Manila, und from there to the Supreme
court in the United States.
The judges and justices today are nearly all Filipinos.

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
-105-
The Philippine islands have a very efficient prison system. This in-
cludes some large farms where the prisoners are taught better methods of agricul-
ture. auged by the number of serious crimes in the Philippines from year to
year, the Filipinos are a very orderly people. On the other hand, the chief
offenses are those of personal violence - killings and assaults.
Eduoation
Again and again in our Philippine story, the solution of problems appears
to await the progress of education. A basic feature of Amerioan policy has been
to give to the Filipinos free, seoular sohooling so fur as the resources of the
country have allowed. Where in 1907 there were hardly more than 6,000 pupils in
the public schools, today there are about 1,180,000, with a further 95,000 in
private institutions.
In Spanish times only the richer families could get their children
trained in the religious oolleges of Manila, and the ordinary people were fortunate
if they received oven a smattering of the "three Rs" in their local dialeots. By
the organic act of the Philippines (19o2), English was made the language of instruct-
ion in the newly formed Amorican schools. A new mental world commenoed to open up
before the Filipinos. Grcat emphasis was laid upon citizenship, health, agricul-
ture and sport. Dean Francisco Benitez, of the College of Blucation, University
of the Philippines, writes:
"American sovereignty has changed the aim of our education from the
narrow and religious one to a practical and dcmocratic aim. We have an educa-
tional system that relegates Bind loyalty, obedience and conformity, to a secondar.
position and stresses the cultivation of individual initiative, self-direction,
self control and the exercise of liberty under the law.
We have developed, under
American guidance, an educational system that aims to prepare for the present life
in this modern world." 2
2
Francisco Benitez, Educational Progress in the Philippines, Institute of
Paoific Relations, Manila 1931, pp.2-3.

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
-106-
Today, except for a few Americans in special posts, the whole system from the
elementary sohools to the university is staffed by trained Filipinos. Though as
yet only a small proportion of pupils get beyond the lower grades and so are able
to master English, the number who can be said to have a good eduoation is growing
constantly.
Many observers have rightly pointed to the fact that this Philippine
eduoational experiment has hardly any parallel in the history of the world. That
an alien people should come in and establish schools, superimpose their language
and ideals, and carry on u policy of "benevolent ussimilation " is unique. Some
express grave doubts as to whether the results will not prove more disruptive
than beneficial; but others including nearly all educated Filipinos themselves,
are enthusiastio.
It had been the hope of the Amerioans that schooling could be made
universal and compulsory.
. Yet the soattered nuture of the Filipino population,
the conservatism of many rural families, and especially limitations of government
finance have made this impossible. Even yet there are more Filipino children out
of sohool than in - over two million, in fact.
Many, too, are unable to oontinue
sohool work beyond the early grades because they are needed in the fields, or at
least can come only for the slack seasons. Unfortunately it is the children of
the tenant and the homesteader, who need sohooling the most if some of the social
problems we have seen are to be guickly solved, that get it the least.
Schooling itself has brought probloms to be met. Many Filipinos of the
older generation (as with some of our own elders) feel that, desirable as may be
some of the changes brought about by the new education, it is "destroying or at
least weakening many of the old Filipino virtucs."
The youth are beooming
"materialistic, irreligious and immoral, " they say, while that bulwark of the
older life, the family, is being undermined beceuse of "the growing freedom of the

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
-107-
Filipino women and the inoreasing disrespeot of the Filipino children for their
parents." This is felt both by those steeped in the Spanish traditions, and by
the rural folk whose life follows largely the Indo-Malayan ways. It is one factor
in keeping a large number of the children out of the schools.
Some Filipino educators have felt that, in the early stages at least,
sohool work should be curried on in the major dialect of the locality (page 61)
instead of in English.
. Children, they say, would understand the work better, and
those who are not going on to the higher schools would not be burdened with the
"foreign " tongue. Others, however, feel that English should be stressed as fully
as possible because no Philippine tongue will bo as useful or as universal.
Undoubtedly the most scrious problem of education is that those who have
been to sohool neurly always turn from agriculture and want a "white collar" job.
Attempts by the American authorities to stress manual activitius in the sohools as
over against academic lcarning have met with soant popularity. A report of a
special committee of thu department of education states:
"Filipinos formerly had few opportunities to enter the professions
or to take part in governnental activity, and naturally thoso who succeeded were
held as heroes and leaders of the race.
Humble toil was below the dignity of
anyone who could reud or write. Eduoation was looked on as a means of living
on the labor of others. Occidentul pedagogy with promises of profossional posi-
tion and participation in the government oroated an urge to the easier and more
genteel means of gaining a livelihood." 3
So long, too, as the man working the soil hus had to lubor under the conditions
already pictured, it can hurdly be wondered t that the cducated Filipino with some
experience of modern standards of living has not boen interested in getting back to
the land.
But nowadays the government service and the professions are crowded.
The cit1es have their unemployed graduates. Competition among those who have been
3
Economic Survey Report, Burcau of Printing, Manila, 1929, p. 7.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
-108-
well eduoated makes for bad feeling or graft and other abuses.
. This difficulty is
by no means confined to the Philippines today. But it is partioularly serious at
this time when nation building is under way. A few educated individuals are now
going baok to tho fields and the oraft bench for a career, and this will no doubt
inorease. But for the most part only the prospect of starvation drives them out,
and they are discontented.
The solution requires not only a ohange of eduoational
ideals but also improved cconomic conditions for those on the land and in industry.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
-109-
CHAPTER XVI
THE CREATIVE SPIRIT
An interesting measure of the vitality and progress of any people is
their art and literature. These reveal their minds, emotions and philosophy of
life. In this section we shall see how far the Filipinos have been developing
such arts as nusic, danoing, puinting, und soulpture, likewise a literature of
their own. we shall a so sec how far these have grown out of the older back-
grounds, or represent an imitation and emulation of the West.
The pagan folk, whose life today gives somc clue to the old time condi-
tions, take great pleasure in chanting and in dancing to the beat of drums and
brass gongs. Some use flutes and more primitivo forms of string instruments.
Many of the pagans do fine wood-carving, woaving and motal-working; but here art
combines with utility, as the carved object may be a spoon, the ornamented cloth a
garment, and the shaped metal a weapon or pipe. Their literature is not written,
but is passed on from generation to generation by word of mouth. Around the fires
at night, or on oeremonial oocasions, the old men, or persons famed as story-
tellers relate tales of gods and heroes that come from ancient times. Here is an
abbreviation of such a tale of the god Kabigat, to whom a people called the Lepanto
pray for good luck.
"Long ago, there were two brother gods, Kabigat and Suyan. They
quarreled over a pig. Their father wanted to make peace between them but Suyan
would not agree. So at last the father made a shield, a spear and a bolo (knife)
for each of them. To decide who was at fault, he ordered them to fight each
other. For long they battled. At last Suyan was overwhelmed. That is why we
pray to Kabigat. When therc is a quarrel and a test is being made to see who is
in the right, we ask Kubigat to help the innocent purty."
A favorite type of tale is one with a moral, designed to make people obey
1
This and the following story were told to the writer in the northern moun-
tains and jungles of Luzon.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.99)
-110-
the customs or keep them contented with their lot. Here is one told by the Isneg
people of the deep jungles:
"A group of women were out planting rice in a forest clearing. They
decided to take a rest. They pushed their digging-stioks into the ground and,
sitting upon them, gossipped and joked together, and picked the lice from one
another's hair. The hours passed, but still no work was done. At last, as the
sun was going down, they got up. But lo! Their sticks had become tails! They
had turned into jabbering monkeys."
Such a story always druws forth shrieks of laughter from the audience, whether or
no it has any effeot on the ludies' efforts in the fields.
At an earlior noint in the study, it was shown how influences came into
the Philippines from India, Java, China and other regions. These have had their
effeots upon Filipino art and literature. The Mohammedan Moros still favor
elaborato red and yellow ornamentution on their clothing, and do boautiful craft-
work in metal. Meny Filipino familios keep rare porcelain ware and other treas-
ures of the old Chinose and Japanese trading duys as heirlooms. The mythology of
the pagans traces back to Indian folklore.
But it remained for Spanish-Christian influonces to bring the greatest
change.
Today, tho folk music of the rural lowland people, accompanied by the
guitar, resembles that of the Spanish conntryside. Yet it retains a hint of the
barbaric, and a strain of mclancholy that seems to tell of the oppressions of the
2
past.
The folk duncing is distinctly Spanish. For city people, olassioal
European musio, the operc, and the ohanging fashions of the dance oame to have an
appeal. Manila is still a great ocnter for such arts. Filipinos are enthusiastio
musioians and dancers, and they play in orchestras the world over. More than one
Filipino has achieved fame outsido of tho islands as a singer, as in the case of
Numbers of Filipino folk songs, Tagalog, Iloouno and Visayan, have been
recorded by the Viotor and other gramophone companies, and can be seoured in the
United States.

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
-111-
Luisa Tapales.
But the Spaniards gave little stimulus to painting, soulpture or litera-
ture. Clever oraftwork was continued and developed by the rural Filipino folk,
including lace-making and embroidery. Wevertheless they kmew little of western
art other than the religious piotures and carvings of the church. Today, the
peasant home usually has numbers of cheap prints with religious themes, also images,
medals and other religious objeots that are treasured. These may nowadays be
joined by prints of movie stars, baseball and boxing champions, and any appealing
pictures out from magazines and newspapers that happen to come to hand.
In the
homes of the richer folk who are still under the influonce of the Spanish tradition,
there will be paintings and photographs hung amid a profusion of gilt mirrors,
ourtainings and other ornamontation in older European style.
A considerable number of Spanish works were transcribed into the local
dialeots, particularly Tagalog. Dr. Pardo de Tavera, a Filipino scholar wrote
of these:
"The only litoraturc accessible to the Filipinos... consisted of Corridos
which constitute the profane literature, and the Pasiones and the Novenas which
formed the religious rending...printed in abundanoe, in cheap editlons...
"The Corridos are storios in verse about historic events, falsified and
fanoiful, and love trugedies full of wonderful cvonts mixed with divine prodigies
and diabolical magics...
"The Novenas, booklets dedicated to particular saints linked the old and
new faiths...(their) prodigies... compare with the enchantments, magics, and
sorceries...of the primitive religion...All the fear of the mysterious was con-
served, ohanging only the conoopts about spirits."
Such works, and the ideas they embodied, beoame thoroughly a part of Filipino
thinking and emotion. In Spain itself, the corrido romances went more or less
out of fashion when Cervantes in Don Quixote held them up to ridioule. But in the
Philippines they were adopted by early Filipino writers as a standard form of
literary creation.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.99)
-112-
The outstanding Filipino author in this field was Franoisco Balagtas,
sometimes called Balthazar, who lived from 1788 to 1862. He is generally spoken
of as the greatest of Filipino poets. He wrote in Tagalog. One of his works
oalled "The Elegant Filipina and the Amorous Negrito" has reoently been trans-
3
lated into English.
Ve may, with the permission of the translators, quote a
small seleotion in order to catch something of its spirit. Uban, a street
sweeper, is preparing the town square for a fiesta. Kapitang Toming, his pygmy
Negrito helper, arrives dressed in a levita or "Prince Albert" coat.
"Toming - ... I am Kapitang Toming, the Eta 4 dandy and lover. Just take
a look at me! An I not elegant?
"Uban -
Ha, ha, ha, hay, haaaa! How funny that levita looks on
that small Hegrito fool!
"Toming -
Bayu! How stupid you aro, even if you are from the town!
Do you know why I am wearing theso fino clothes?
"Uban
Well, what is the ruason then?
"Toming -
I am madly in love!
"Uban
And with whom?
"Toming -
With Menangue!
"Uban
That toothless girl from Kalungusang?
"Toming -
Oy! o. If you could see her, even you would fall in
love with her!
"Uban
Fell, ono look at you in that levita is enough to make
her turn you down!
"Toming -
What? In this coat?
"Uban
Tran, trin, trok! What a fool is this mountain black!
"Toming -
A black man in love is just like a Tagalog in lovel
3
By Jose T. Enriquez, Ignacio Manlupaz, and A.V. H. Hartendorp, in the
Philippine Magazine, Mov mber 1932.
4
Eta or Aeta is thc name given to Negritos in some Philippine dialects.

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
-113-
"Uban
Well, even if you are bursting with love from head
to foot, you still look ridiculous in that suit of
yours.
"Toming -
I am now Spanish in form and fashion; Spanish enough,
Uban, to be loved by the beautiful Menanguel When
I made love to her in my G-string, she would not as
much as look at me even when I braught her a present.
Then I put on a Spanish mestizo's olothes, and donned
a wig, but she still would have none of me. Next, I
put on the shirt and pants of a Chinaman and brought
her a gift of wax, but she took no interest. At last
I put on the clothes of a brave Balangingi Moro, but
still I could make no impression. Now let us see if
she will love me in this levita, for today I look more
like a Spaniard than un Eta!"
When the fair Menangue arrives, it is not the levita but the passionate love songs
of Toming, with their mingling of romance and pathos, that finally win her. In
these ballads, Balagtas makes sly fun of his follow countrymen's sentimentalism.
Some crude types of drama were also developed by the Filipinos under the
Spanish influence. The moro-moro show comprises boisterous theatricals portray-
ing the triumph of Christians over tho Mohammedan infidel. Two other kinds, the
duplo and thc Keragatun, have been described as follows:
"These are usually played at the celebration on the ninth day after a
death. The duplo is an elaborate dramatic debate in verse, usually ryhmed but
unsoanned, and without fixed stanzlic puttern...The players accuse one another
of mythical crimes in highly puzzling terms and the aocused dofend themselves in
torms just as puzzling...Witc clush und sparks fly about. Those whom the Muses
fail and are uneblo to ruad tho riddles propounded to them are either chastised
with a stick or made to say a long, elaborate prayer for the deceased...
"The karagatan... (is) somewhat less formal than the duplo for while
the dupleros are generally well-trained professionals, the players In a karagatan
are merely guests with roady purts and a turn for extemporanoous verification."
In view of such a mental and emotional atmosphere, in which the fresh currents of
only
modern knowledge have nly been blowing for a few years, can it be wondered that
the Filipinos tend to be highly romantic, and that many are labelled ignorant,
superstitious and credulous?
5
Ignacio Manlapaz, "Filipino Drama: a Sketch." in the Philippine Magazine,
November 1931.

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
-114-
With the rise of nationalism toward the end of last century, the Filipino
spirit began at last to break free and express itself in artistry that was not mere
imitation, or religious and sentimentul medievalism. Dr. Rizal was, among his many
accomplishments, a peinter, soulptor, and writer. Other Filipinos who went abroud
studied in the art schools of Europe. The greatest of those was the painter, Lune;
other artists of merit were Hidalgo, de la Rosa and Amorsolo. Of soulptors,
Tolentino stands out as easily first. The works of all these men are a souroc of
pride to the cducated Filipinos of today, and a group of youngor artists are
following in their footstcps.
A lively literature hus also developed in the recent decades; first in
the dialects and Spenish, but now increasingly in English. Already Filipino writers
have been quoted at a number of points. Perhaps tho outstanding soholar the
Philippines have produced was Dr. Pardo do Tavera, who used Spanish. Besides having
a profound knowlcdge of Filipino lunguages and history, he wrote vigorously on
political and social problems. The revolutionary leaders such as Mabini and del
Pilar were nearly all cap ble writers. In fact it has been said that practioally
every Filipino leader of modern times has at one time or another turned his hand to
journalistic work. Where during the Spanish period such writings were done abroad
or in seoret, the years from l398 have seen a veritable flood of Filipino newspapers
and journals arise - though mostly to pass away as quickly. As we can expect, the
main theme has been the importance of achieving politioal freedom.
There has boen much discussion in reccnt yeurs as to whether the Filipino
can ever really cxpross his thoughts and emotions adequately in the "foreign"
English languagc. Certainly the bulk of published writings in that tongue have been
medioore. Even if the English is grummatically correct, it tends to be either a
self-consoious copying of west rn writers or else rather pompous and platitudinous.
Nevertheless certuin Filipinos now write English of outstanding merit. Furthermore,

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
-115-
a younger generation of authors are cmerging, trained in tho English-speaking
sohools, who seem well on the way to creating a special English-Filipino literature.
Now that the subjeot of politics tends to have lost its freshness, they are turning
to more directly artistic creation in both poetry and prose. Keeping the master-
picoes of English literature before them, they are going to their own country and
people for their material. So far, the main media of expression have been the
short poom and the short story, the latter usually with a strong touch of tragedy.
In this, as in other aspeots of Filipino striving, women take their place along
withmen.
So interosting is this literary movement thut it seems well worth sampling
some of these English-Filipino productions. In the next seotio: we can look over
several poems and sulections from prose writings. They havo been picked out, not
becauso their authors are neoossarily the leading writers, but because they seem
to reveal the spirit of this new literature.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
-116-
CHAPTER XVII
SELECTIONS FROM THE NEW FILIPINO LITERATURE
The wild duoks and oranes
Shriek wierdly in the starlight
Over the dark nipa palms;
In fluct, full-sailed vintas
Turbaned brown men
Beat thoir copper gongs
In a wild, strange rhytha
That commingles with the sighing of the reeds
In the soft dawn shower;
And the strong brown river
Glides in pensive majesty
Through the rank reptilian richness
of the marshes.
The Old Chief2
The strong, rich sounds of the gangsas (gongs) filled the danoing ground,
were carried by the winds to the oaverns of the nearby forests, reaohing at lust
the ioy clouds on the mountain tops. Twilight was coming like a dream expeoted,
like a friend that looked for no formalitics of welcome.
1
Maximo Ramos, in the Philippine Magazine, July 1934
2
Amador T. Daguio, in Iden, April 1933, This is an extract from a story dealing
with a ohief among one of the non-Christian peoples, the Kalinga.

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
-117-
Men were stepping to the sonorous rhythms of the gongs in their hands,
now crouohing, then leaping and dashing through the cirole of dancers in front of
the old ohief's house. The women and girls, lithe and graceful of form, swayed and
bent like reeds on a windy hilltop. They seemed to drift over the ground, their
feet hardly moving, as with arms outstretched they followed the men about in a groat
oirole. Durkness cume of a sudden and still they danced and the musio rolled on.
From somewhere rosc the melting lilt of female voices, from a group on a
long beneh under a coconut trec, chanting a song of the tribe, liquid and golden,
slow, and moving toward a cruscondo of high passion, almost sad, full of longing -
a oall to the long ago when anoiunt gods wandered along the river seeking goddesses
stolen by the winds.
I am danoing and the gods dance
Come to me, como to me, tong-tong,
Ton;-.-tong-a-tong!
Come to me, come to me, tong-tong,
Tong-a-tong-a-tong,
With the songs of long ago...
From the shadows an old man rose. He had sat there a long time, watchin,
thinking... The indistinct feelin, he hud fult since the middlo of the day had
become a scering sadness. Hc was the chief. T is uthuring was in honor of one of
his nophews. He would cive the peorle a messa, purhaps his last, for when a man
is old he nover knows. Liko the others, he may co, abruptly and silently, unablo
to postpone his going cvon for  moment.
He had seen his tribo grow in strength and renown throughout the region.
He had known war and victory. Then the overnment had made him a vassal - and that
hud meant humiliction. But that wus a long time ago, and in his old age he had lost
the overwhelmin; feeling that he must conquer and hold sway over others...
He walked to the conter of the danc in court and in an age-mellowed voice
began to address his peoplc. His opening words silenced very one and there was

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
-118-
neither stir now whisper. Even the wind seemed hardly to move.
"Rich people! Senores! Brave men! I stand before you. Hear my humble
words!" Ho stretched forth his wine cup as if to offer it to the people, then
continued: "Permit me! I am old and the evening is cool. When youth is gone, on
feels weak in the bones, cold reaches the heart. Permit me, young mon and young
women, to drink of this warming oup."
The crowd assented with a murmur that was like the sound of a far off
river. The light of the fires illumined the old man's bronzed face. The high
cheek bones and the rcst of the bony framework were clcarly marked, yet nobility
was still therc and confidence, the bearing of benevolence and experience.
The old man, oven as he spoke, was thinking of the days, never to return,
when he was frec cnd the cry of blood to blood lcaped high within him... He thought
of the songs he had sung, the loves he had loved, the life ho had lived. Now he
was old and these people were listening to him, looking at him. Were they the same
people, his peoplo?...
"We foel strango things," he said, "when wc are old. Today we are weak;
tomorrow we go - like the clouds on those mountain tops, like that river yonder,
far and silver murmuring to the sea... My people, there are things in the heart of
an old man which you can nuver understand..."
Ho looked around and there wus un air of prophecy about him. The feelin
crept to the very souls of his hearers...
"Youths, I am talking to you! Heur me! Do you hear me? Are you laughin
at me within your hearts? You who havo gone to the schools of the gobierno, 3 who
have tastcd of knowledge, who have shared the wisdom of wise minds, I beseech you
to hear me if only for this short moment...
Government

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.96)
-119-
"I have only one appeul to mako to you, our children of tho sohools. It
is this: leave us old people alone. You trample upon our customs and truditions
and therefore upon our souls... Don't you lmow that we are old, my children? Ve
aro looustomed to everything that scems so silly and contemptible to you. le still
live in a rent tradition... The only thin, the best thing that you can do is to
leavc us alone. We are old. Tomorrow we shall co without qucstion, out of your
knowledge. Our youth is one, our quickness, our joy...
You have still muny yeurs bufore you to onjoy the fruits of your euucction
and the new ways of livin. ut for you to attempt to change us would be to rob us
of the few days or months of pouccful waitin for thc end. We have sown our own
seeds, leave us to thnt harv st. Give us the s tisfaction of reaping what we h.ve
sown - our last horvest, for the secns we may still ather, you will throw to the
winds, you will never plant them again. That wo know und acquicsce in. Those secds
will vanish forever; let us tuke them with us to the crave."
The old chief puusud, tromblin, to noto the uffect of his words. All
wore silent. From over the mountain rane, the moon rose, shining over valleys as
old as the ages, castin: over them a c lm and silver lory. The forests were still,
and it seomed that the spirits of lod tre stors hovered cround without sound, with-
out fury, without rogrct. Into the he rts of the crowd swept a va ue und powerful
tondernoss...
1
Weather
Fefore the rainy scuson cones in
Tatay Mundo will mend tho roof of his nipu house.
It will look like tho old putchy trousors he always wears
When h ous to town on Sunday mornin;s.
4 N. V. M. Gonzales, Philippine Murazinc, July 1932

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
-120-
5
The Value of Trudition
On the first day of every November we consider our ancestors and become
partioipants in the ritual of an old universal worship.
We think of the dead. We put flowers on their graves and we pray. We
review our Tradition and get drunk with devotion and remembrance.
Tradition, under this circumstanoe, deserves the dignity with which it is
invested.
It oasts upon us the oharm of experience, linking us to a Past and such
of its moments of nobility as human memory shall not let perish.
It fortifies us in our endeavors of the present and inspires the improve-
ment in detail of our dreams of the future.!:
It gives us, not bonds to chain us forover to ancient manners, but a
commission to contributo to the common store of human kindness so that life for us
and those to follow may dovelop an increasing distinction.
Devotion to the doad, symbol of Tradition, wo think, oan have no better
justifioation. Loyalty to them, interpreted in other terms, can only mean that we
care more for perpetuating the despotism of a cult than for preserving the back-
ground for a finer future.
6
River-Winds
"In the evoning
Tho river-winds take the village
In thoir arms,
5
Federico Mangahas, in The Leader, November 1932. On the date mentioned, most
Filipinos spend the night in the cemeteries beside the lighted graves of their
ancestors.
6
C. V. Pedroche, in the Philippine Magazine, July 1932

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
-121-
Whispering fragments of old lost songs;
And, pulling a blanket of dreams
Over the sleeping roofs,
Softly, softly move on..."
Water, Water, Water.
"I shall go out and watoh the fields tonight, Asiang," said Berto to his
wife after they had eaten their supper.
The four younger children had already one to sleep. They lay together
in one corner of the room, covered by a red-striped blanket, exccpt the youngest who
had slipped from the common pillow and was sprawling on the bare floor. Marta, the
eldest daughter, was mondin clothes - a shirt of her father's, ripped at the baok,
and several camisas which had to be worn during the coming town fiesta in honor of
the people's patron saint. Nana Asiang was sitting on a petroleum box near the
window, rolling a tobacco leaf.
"I wonder if there is enough in the paabog to wator all the fields,"
remarked Nana Asiang.
"Not enough," was Berto's laconic reply. Then after a moment he added,
"By the time the water ronches Laoay Pacio's land, the ditches will be as dry as
the streets. The water may not cvon reach Manuel's field, and that is only a short
distanco from here."
"God help your brother Balbin," said his wife. "His fields are further
down beIow."
"If his crop fails again this ycar," suid Berto, "I could not afford to
share my harvest with him."
7 Geronimo D. Sicam, in Idem, August 1932 (somowhat abbreviated)

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.99)
-122-
"They will starvo!" said Nana Asiang in compassion.
"We shall have a poor harvest ourselves," said the husband, plaoing his
bolo in its sheath which hung in a broad leather strap around his waist. He slung
a saok over his broad, sturdy shoulders.
"You must be careful, Berto," said the wife as he took his battered buri
hat from a nail on the bamboo post. "Don't do anything rash."
"Cook the rice carly tomorrow morning," said Berto. "I shall be hungry
when I get home."
Nana Asiang's cyes followed Borto, but she soon lost him for it was pitoh
dark. There was no moon.
"It may rain toni ht," thought Nana Asiang. "The sky is cloudy."
Nana Asiang felt a vaguo apprehension. She did not know why. Perhaps it
was because of the ominous-looking bolo which she could still see as she had seen
it flash malignantly in tho dim light of the room. It seomed so enormous. So
heavy. Its blade, so keen. Or was it the temperamental nature of Berto that she
was afraid of? ...How casily aroused he was, particularly when his sense of
justice was touched, when something seemed to him unfair...
"I shall not do anything rash," thought Berto after he had left the house,
reoalling his wife's parting words, "but if those water thieves come to tamper with
the sluices..."
He hed in mind old Jose and his nephew who owned the adjoining rioe
paddies next to his, a little below. Thcir holdings combined did not approximate
Berto's but cvery year they boasted of a heavier harvest... Somebody had hinted to
him that Jose and his nophew tampored with the sluices at night, and that in many
other ways they managed to get the lion's share of the water allotted to the entire
Cabulundayan district. ind poor Balbin way down below always failed to get his
just share of the water.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
-123-
"This is a beastly world," mused Borto. "There are many who will resort
to anything to take the rioe out of other people's mouths."
It was very dark. Berto could hardly see his way. The air was still, so
still that even the chirping of distant crickets was distinctly audible...
Reaching his uppermost field, Berto proceeded to examine the sluices,
saw to it that no water escaped from them. He heaped over them some more weeds and
olayey loam. The water he had left in that afternoon was still high. It reaohed
to over his knees. But the water in the oreek wes not so plentiful. This made
him think of his brother Balbin. "The wator won't roach him," he thought. "The
ditohes will be dry long before..." He moved towards the other sluice on the
eastern end a hundred yards away und found it in good condition. Then satisfied,
he sat down on an embankmont.
For an hour ho sat watching. Nothing happened. all was quiet.
He was boginning to feel drowsy, and lay down on his back, using the sack
he had brought with him for a pillow.
He had probabl dozed off, for he had not noticed the approach of the man
who was now standing near the western sluice, not very far from him. His hand
instinctively reached for his bolo.
"It's old Jose's nephew," flashed through his mind...
The man bent over the sluice and after some moments Berto could hear the
water gushing forth. Out of his fields. His first impulso was to rush at the man,
but he lay motionless, like an animal of prey ready to spring at its victim.
Berto's hand tightened, held the bolo in a vise-like grip. His head was
in a swirl. Ho folt as if the man was drawing the very lifeblood out of him.
The man walked towards the eastern sluioe. Towards him! With bloodshot
eyes he waited for the approach of tho trespasser.
As the man bent over the sluice, obviously to remove it, Berto rose in a

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
-124-
bound.
"Thief!" he hissed.
"Thief!"
Taken by surprise the intruder wheeled around with upraised hands.
It was but the work of a moment.
Berto swung his enormous bolo and struok...
After his fury had spent itself and his head gradually cleared, the
atrooity of his deed appalled him. He had committed a orime, murdered a fellow-
man - for what?... The offence of the man seemed so insignificant now - now that
he was dead.
Thoughts flashed through Berto's mind with lightning rapidity. Some-
thing had to be done. And quickly...
He decided to bury the body near tho place it had fallen and immediately
commenoed digging...Before dragging the corpse into the hole the desire to look
closely at the man's faco possessed him. He did so, but in the dark it was un-
recognizable...
Early the next morning, Nana Asiang awoke to find Berto sitting on the
petroleum box near the window. He had on the red shirt which Marta had mended tho
previous evening....
"What time did you come home?" asked the wife.
"An hour ago."
"It's raining," observed the wife, going up to him. She put her hand
outside the window to feel the raindrops. It was too good to be true.
"Yes, it's raining," he corroborated with a curious note of irony in his
voioe.
Berto looked in silence at the half-drenched figure of his sister-in-lew,
who had just come into the house. From his cyes he made her understand that sho
was unwelcome, but she tactfully ignored the faot. Simeona and Balbino had beer

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
-125-
quite a nuisance lately. So dependent. Rice. Always rice. But how could
they help it? It it were not for the orop failure the previous year they would
not be so destitute....
"We have only one cavan of rice left," Berto heard his wife say....
Berto did not move to greet Simeona. He looked outside across the
fields.
The rain had grown stronger....
At length he asked, "How are the ohildren?"
"Fidel is sick," said Simeona...."He takes nothing but salt and boiled
rioe...." After a moment she said slowly: "We are always hard up - but I can't
blame Balbino. As it is, he's working himself to death. He's doing his best -
I don't know what would happen to us without him...."
"Why did Balbino not come over himself to get the rice?"
"He's not yet returned," answered Simeona.
"From where?"
"I don't know."
"Where did he go?"
Nana Asiang esked.
"Last night," Simeona explained, "we went to bed early, but shortly aft
midnight" - Berto looked startled - "he rose and went out. I had been awakened
and I asked him where ho was going. He did not tell me. He'd be back in an
hour, he said..."
"Was he dressed?"
asked Berto. There was a catoh in his voice.
"No," said Simeona... "I wonder whero he is now - I thought I'd find him
here..."
Berto's eyes wundered out into the drenohed fields, then fixed themselves
on one particular spot...
Water, water, everywhere, all around. The rain fell in torrents... he
rice plants awakened, and waved their blades in the wind.

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
-126-
God was kind.
"Give her the remaining cavan," Berto said after a long silenoe. And
once more he looked at the wet fields.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
-127-
CHAPTER XVIII
FILIPINOS TRY OUT A GOLDEN TRAIL
In 1920, there were 27,000 Filipinos in the United States.
Ten years
later, the number had grown to more than 100,000.
. This total has fallen away
somewhat, because of the economic depression and other oiroumstances, but many
thousands have stayed on.
A scattering of Filipinos went abroad in Spanish days, mainly to Europe.
After 19o0, students wore sent with government soholarships to America. On their
return they told stories of good times and the case of carning one's way through
college, and this attracted others.
Today there are many Filipinos studying in
the universities.
But the main impetus to immigration oame through the sugar planters of
Hawaii.
As early as 1906-07, a group of Tagalogs from Manila were brought to
the Hewaiian plantations. But most of them soon drifted from there to the towns,
or else baok to their homes. Two years later, an arrangement was made with the
Philippine government for reoruiting to be done in the Visayan or central islands.
These Visayan peasants tended to be easy-going and improvident, and their ignorance
and the pugnacity shown by some of them gave a rather bad impression of the Fili-
pinos as a people.
During the Great War, permission was seoured to obtain laborers from the
orowded Ilocos country in north Luzon.
.The Ilocanos proved to be "milder," hard
working and thrifty. It is from here that the greut majority of later immigrants
have come. The Hawaiian Sugar Planters' Association joined with the steamship
companies in enlisting workers, though the attractive prospeots held out and the
glowing aocounts sent back by those who went, made it easy to get the required
volunteers. At first the fares of the laborers were paid. But after a time this

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
-128-:
beoame unnecessary; Filipinos were so anxious to get to this new land of promise
that they were willing to meet the expenses themselves.
The immigrants were nearly all young men. Exoept for some of the
earlier Tagalogs and Visayans, they came almost entirely without womenfolk.
The
terms of their contract provided that, if they remained on the plantations for
three years of sorvice, their passages home would be paid. In 1920 and 1924 the
Filipinos went on strike for higher wages. But on the whole plantation condi-
tions have been made sufficiently attractive to hold enough workers to carry on.
They have better housing than at home, special clubs, facilities for sport and
reoreation, and free medioal services.
Nevertheless, many of the laborers have been keen to see more of the
world than the plantation camp.
When their period of service expired, or before
that, they moved in to Honolulu city. Some got jobs as hotel boys, domestio
servants, musioians or the like. Others were content to work for a short period
eaoh year in the pineapple canneries there, and in the off-season to take it easy
around town. If they ran short of money for their simple needs, they were
supported by thoir friends.
Numbers of these former laborers were students ho
took this means of getting abroad for further education. Several of these, by
dint of hard work, now hold important business posts in Hawaii, aoting as inter-
mediaries between the local firms and the Filipino population.
Large numbers of these immigrants, huving saved enough for their fares,
moved on to the Pacific coast states. Others crossed direct to the mainland from
the Philippines, or else received their disohergo there after service in the
American navy and army.
. They became concentrated partioularly in California.
Those who could not get city jobs worked as manual laborers in fruit and vegetat
growing distriots where cheap labor was in demand.
Because the Filipino with his simpler standards of living could undercut

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
-129-
the white worker. hostility was soon aroused. This has also happened there in
the case of Chinese, Japanese, and Mexican immigrants. Starting in 1929, a
series of olushes have occurred involving greater or less violence. The news-
papers still report them from time to time. Amerioan labor representatives came
to advocate strongly the exclusion of Filipinos from the United States, and have
therefore thrown their weight in favor of independenoe for the islands. The
Hawaiian employers, on the other hand, opposed such exclusion.
Among the poorer folk in the Philippines, caught in the dull round of
economic subservience, the reports of conditions in America sounded almost fabulous.
"The first great ontingent of Filipinos met with great
success. Their letters to their folk at home contained happy
news, together with muterial results in the form of prescnts
and money orders in more or less big cmounts. Stories of their
successes grew in volume and becamc a by-word in their home
towns where others waited for opportunities and moans to follow
the successful emigrants...(the) offect is still felt in every
nook and oorner of these Islands." 1
Concerning this oxodus of Filipinos, Manuel Quezon, the president of the
Philippine Senate, said in 1929:
"I do not blame our laborers for loaving the Philippines if
they think they can find better wages in other countries, but I
regret tho fact that they are leaving.
"I hope that  onditions here will become such as to offer
better opportunities to our working mon and give them a better
inducement to stay. Our country needs the combined efforts of
all to foster its economic development." 2
With the grent depression, the scene hes changed entirely. There has
been considerable unemployment and hardship among the Filipinos overseas. The
idea of America as a land of promise has become dissipated.
.The Hawaiian Sugar
1
Hermenegildo Cruz, Emigration of Filipinos to Hawaii and the United States,
Philippine Committce, Instituto of Pacific Relations, Manila 1931. It is said
that over 3, O00,O00 has been sont annually by Filipinos in Hawaii to their
relatives ut home.
2
Quoted in Idem, p.4.

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
-130-
Planters paid the return fares of several thousands who have gone baok empty
handed. Negotiations heve been under way between the American authorities and
the Philippine government to ship numbers from the mainland, though the latter
are worried both by the finanoial costs involved and where to fit them into the
home economio system in view of the critical unemployment that exists. At the
same time, the leading Filipinos have resented the agitation of Americans for
exolusion of their countrymen so long as the Stars and Stripes are flying over the
Philippines.
They urged strongly that Filipinos stay ut home and develop their
own oountry.
By the terms of the independence act, all Filipinos not born or natural-
ized in the United States now have the status of "aliens," and are exoluded from
the mainland of the United States, exoept for on annual quota of fifty, together
with special people like diplomats, students, and temporary visitors. An exemption
is made for the Territory of Hawaii, where Filipinos may be admitted under the
supervision of the department of the interior should there be a demand for them
as industrial workers.
. Since the pussing of the act, Filipinos in the United
States have become rather concorned as to their position.
.Many are thoroughly
used to American conditions of life, and they fear that should they leave to visit
their homes and relatives they will be unable to return.
For this reeson, some
of them have been strongly against independence.
The Filipinos who come overseas are faced with many problems in adjust-
ing to their new life.
If they have been trained in the higher schools, they are,
of course, familiar with the American language und customs - at least from books.
But the vast majority oome from poor rural homes, and at most will have had a few
years in the elomentary sohools. Arriving on the Huwaiian plantation or in the
mainland city, they find themselves having to learn suddonly now modes of speech und
conduot.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
-131-
They must conform to a very different code of laws and manners from
that of their barrio life. Where formerly they were merely a unit of a family,
accustomed to taking orders from their elders or the oaoique, and having them
plan the daily round, they are now expeoted to behave as fully self-responsible
individuals. The men outnumber the women by about eleven to one, so that a
normal family and social life is denied to most of them. And they have money in
their pockets that at home would represent comparative wealth.
When all these facts are considered, the Filipinos in the United States
must on the whole be congratulated for their orderliness and progress. Compared
with certain otler laboring groups in the same position, the amount of crime and
delinquency among them has been small. Occasional fights or serious acts of
violence are usually the result of jealousy over the few womenfolk who are with
them. At times, there have been disagreements between the Ilocanos, the Taga-
logs, and the Visayans.
Or their love of cook-fighting and gambling, pro-
hibited on American soil, causes them to run foul of the law. Yet the Fili-
pinos do not often steal, as any who are in economic diffioulty are usually
supported by compatriots - that is, the traditional hospitality and cooperation
carries over. They are docile and willing workers, perhaps looking to their
employers in somewhat tho sume way as they hitherto looked to their superiors at
home.
Already it has been pointed out how money is sont back to the Philip-
pines.
This is ospecially so with the thrifty Ilocanos. Indeed, some em-
ployers complain that they do not spend enough on thoir food to keep them fit end
healthy.
. On the other hond, few Filipinos can resist indulging in gay clothes,
danoes, movies, boxing, baseball and other entertainments, including the native
cock-fighting - with, of course, some betting on the result. The psyohological
needs these meet were referred to in an earlier seotion (pagos 35-36). The

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
-132-
Filipinos also like to move from one job to another, or even to lay off when they
have money in their pockets.
Among themselves, Filipino groups in the United States have their own
forms of social activity - clubs, lodges, and even at times strange religious
sects. There are numbers of newspapers in English and the dialeots, though
these rarely are long-lived. Rizal day is always celebrated, and in this and
other ways the Filipinos show themselves to be very patriotic. Unfortunately,
those more ignorant or newly arrived have often fallen a prey to unscrupulous
fellow Filipinos. They huve been swindled with lotteries, beauty contests, and
other money-making schemes. Eut there are also numbers of Filipino religious
and social workers who are helping such newcomers to become adjusted. Like all
new imigrant groups, the Filipinos have not sottled down yet as a whole to a
stable community life. Their ways of living are a varied mingling of Filipino
and Amerioan customs.
Now that independence is in sight, it remains to be seen how many
Filipinos will resist the oall of the homeland and choose to settle down as Ameri-
cans.
The spirit of almost exaggerated nationalism born of their history is
against it.
. Nevertheless a number may well do so. Some have good positions,
and in certain instances they have married girls of other races. Furthermore, an
increasing group of Filipino children have beon porn in the United States and
hence are full American citizens.
They tend to be assimilated into Amerioan life,
and the stories they may have heard their parents tell of poverty and struggle in
the ancestral barrios do not serve to attract them away. Even when the Philip-
pines become independent, therefore, there will still be numbers of people of
Filipino blood within the American nation. The lin!: between the two countries
in this as in other ways will not be wholly severod.

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
-133-
CHAPTER XIX
THE TRENDS OF NATIDI BUILDING
Our journey among the Philippine islands and their people now draws to
a close.
. In the brief time and spaoe at our disposal we have reviewed the his-
tory and present life of the Filipinos, likewise something of the problems of
nation building that face them in the future.
The Filipinos, we have seen, draw for their physical and mental heri-
tage upon the racial stuff of praotically all mankind. Ve may credit them with
being on the average under no biological handicap us a people. Given the oppor-
tunity, increasing numbers of Filipinos are mastering the civilization of the West,
foreign as it has boen to them us folk of Eastern buckgrounds. Where Filipinos
may seem by our standards buckward, ignorant, emotionally unstable, flashy, easy
going, supor-sensitive and so on, we can appreciate the oultural differences and
historical experienoes which have produced suoh characteristics. It would be
false for us to speak of these as pormanent inborn marks, the more so as forces
are today at work changing vastly the Filipino life and thought.
We have noticod espocially that the Filipino people are rooted in ono
or another of their many local heritagos, yet ut the same time responding to a
wider sense of citizenship. The two kinds of linkage, regional and national,
seem in no way at odds. They oan be adjustcd successfully to cach other so as t
produce a rich Philippine lifo. A recent governor-general, Theodore Roosevelt,
writes of this:
"Individuals in a community differ very greatly one from
another, and still are able through holding tc generul broad
concepts whioh they huve in common to work together cohesively
us a community.
What holds true of individuuls holds true of
groups as woll.
. Sufficient similarity in beliefs and customs
cun be attained to pormit of integrution as a part of a united
1
From ur introduotion to Taming Philippino Headhunters, A Study
of Government and of Cultural Change... by F.M. and M.Keesing,p. 17.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
-134-
The above was written with special reference to the adjustment of the
non-Christian peoplcs into the general Philippine life. In this connection, it
is a rather striking fact that Christian Filipinos and many Americans have for
years been advocating a policy of quiok "assimilation" for the pagan and Mohammeden
Filipinos. Yet they have not defined what type of Filipino they wish to make of
them. The older non-Christian vays of life have been rather systematically
attaoked as undesirable, and the children in the schools have been encouraged more
or less openly to break away. Nowadays, however, a few people arc beginning to
realize there is no gencral type of Filipino life into which the non-Christians
could be absorbed. At most they oould be mude into imitation Ilocanos, Visayans
or other Christians. So far, the pagan and Mohummedan groups have remained con-
servative, and their anoient ideas and customs are largely kept to. The new con-
ception of assimilating the non-Christien is not to destroy but to build upon
these local heritages, es hes huppened with the Christians. Time and the voluntary
choice of the people themsolves will then show what is end what is not worth pre-
serving of the old ways, and confliots will be reduced to the minimum.
There is a general question of grent interest concerning the future of
the Filipino people as a whole. Now that tho tonds with the United States ure
apparently being severed, will the new nation continue to develop its prosent
contaots with the Occident or turn more toward the Orient? A Filipino educator
writes:
"The Filipino is in a most peculiar situation. Geographi-
cally and racially, he belongs to the East, but culturally he
belongs partly to the Wost... It can only now be a matter of
speculation whether it would have been allowod to dovelop thoir
own native civilizution as the Chinese und Japanese unin-
terfered with by westorn powers and influence. " 2
2
Francisoo Benitcz, Educational Progress in the Philippines. Institute of
Pacific Rolations, Manila 1931, p. 12.

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
-135-
He himself, after woighing the gains and losses of the modern period, concludes:
"I have no regrets thut the Filipino of four nundred years ago has changed into
the Filipino of today." Nevertheless he and others see that for the future there
is the alternative of emphasizing either things Oocidental or things Oriental.
Some years ago, Professor Beyer of the University of the Philippines
pointed out that Americuns were assuming a heavy responsibility in superimposing
Western ways of speeoh, thought and custom upon the Filipinos and so turning them
more and more from tho Eust. Certuinly today, the educated Filipino does not show
any enthusiasm or attraction towards the ways of his Oriental neighbors. His
attitudes towurd the Japunese, for example, are much like those of the average
American. Ho fears their cconomic and political strength, and dislikes their
penetration of his country. Furthermore, the filipinos are overwhelmingly
Christian - and often very pious - so that tho Chinose, and even other Malayans
are looked down upon as "infideIs "
Short of an upsurging of the older Malayanism
among the masses, whose lives still bear predominantly the sooial murks of th:
Orient, Ocoidentalized minds and manners seem likoly to remain at the helm. Yet
it is upon Asiatic waters thut tho new nation is being launched.
One thing seems clear, however.
Vhutever type of national life is
worked out, it will be essentially a Filipino life. along with the urge for
political freedom, there has been emerging a spirit of "Filipinism". The Fili-
pinos of the future will not bo willing to ape the ideas and customs of any out-
side people. Whether they lean meinly to East or West, they will make whatever
they take over their own. Amerioa has copied no Europoun nation exactly while yet
drawing upon many, and so it will be with the Philippines. The Islands and their
people are today in the proccss of becoming modernized, and in doing so are fusing
valuable elements fror both th old Asian background. and the new Wostern civiliza-
tion.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
-136-
Some Filipino thinkers, indeed, have seen this not only as enriohing
for themselves but also as giving their people a real mission to perform in the
ohanging world of today. They think of the Philippines as offering an experi-
mental bridge by which East and West can meet. Dean M. M. Kalaw, of the college
of liberal arts in the University of the Philippines writes:
"Wc have thus u most strategic cultural position - an Oriental
peoplo standing at the portals of Asia in deep sympathy with
their kindred neighbors yet with hands outstretohed to the cul-
tures of Spain nd America. Wo still relish with pleasure the
chivalry and courtesy that our ancient metropolis has bequeathed
to us; at the same time we aro holding on to imerioa's ideal of
democracy, her business methods, her efficiency, her high stand-
ards for health und sanitation, her espousal of maohine methods,
and her idea of popular eduoation. We owe it to our posterity
and to thc world to effeot a harmonious blending of all these cul-
tural cloments. Under the aegis of freedom we expeot to evolve
a mode of life adapted to the modern age yet sufficiently Asiatic
in tho feeling of comradeship with our Oriental nations. We plan
to continue retaining a personality of our own and to dovelop the
good traits of our people. Our hospitality, our generosity, our
respect for the elders, our peace-loving nature, and our artistic
bents, we intend to preserve. Our chief charaoteristic should be
our catholioity; our chief strength the harmonious amalgamation
of tho East nnd the West." 3
If these idealistio words can be in some measure fulfilled, the Philippines
will indeed be a not unimportant unit in the world community. While today we
cannot see very clearly cither the diruction of internal developments or the likely
trends of external affairs in the Far East upon both of whioh the destiny of the
Filipino people depends, wc oen watch with sympathy their struggle to develop as a
nation, and we oan wish then well in tho task.
3
The Philippine Question: An Analysis, Manila 1931, p. 83.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
-137-
A PHILIPPINE CHRONOLOGY
The following table gives the main events and dates in Philippine his-
tory.
Corresponding events in the wider world are also indicated for compari-
son.
The early happenings are based on researches by Professor H.O.Beyer.
Time
Philippines
Elsewhere
About 25,000 years ago
Australoids and Negritos come
Paleolithic (Old
or earlier.
overland into the Philip-
Stone Age) man.
pines.
From 20,000 to 10,000
Short Mongoloids (Proto-
From the Old to the
years ago.
Malays) into the Philip-
New Stone Age.
pincs - or were they a
mixture of the above with
later peoples?
From 8,000 to 3,000
Indonesians from south Asia
Emergence of modern
years ago.
migrate by canoe in succes-
European races.
sive waves.
From stone to
bronze and iron.
Rise of early civi-
lizations in the
Mediterranean and
Near East regions,
and in India and
China.
About 500 B.C. on.
Start of Malayan migrations
The White Nordics
to the Philippines, con-
spread from north-
tinuing to about the 13th
cast Europe.
century A.D. Iron replaces
The riso of classi-
stone, and influences come
cal Greece.
in from India, Arubia and
Confucius in China,
China.
Buddha in India.
About 200 A. D. to the
Colonization and some politi-
Trade between Europe
12th century.
cal control from the Indo-
and the Orient.
Malayan states of Sumatra
Rise of Indo-Malayan
and Borneo.
empire of Sri-
Vishaya in Sumatra.
Development of Japan.
Christianity sprec.
over Europe, and
Rome fails.
982 A. D.
First specifio date in Philip-
Anglo-Saxon England.
pine history - a Canton
Beginning of Sung
document.
period in China.
Maya civilization
in Central Americt.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
-138-
Time
Philippines
Elsewhere
1292-1478 A.D.
Javanese control and influence
1215 Genghis Khan con-
under the empire of Madja-
quers China.
pahit.
Spread of Mohammedanism
into Malaysia and
overthrow of Madja-
pahit in 1478.
1453 Turks took Constan-
tinople.
About 1480 to 1570.
Spread of Mohammedanism in the
Renaissance in Europe.
southern Philippines and to
Expansion of Portuga].
certain points in the north.
Spain, and other
powers into the New
World.
1521
Magellan "discovers" the
1519-32 Spain conquers
the Philippines.
Mexico and Peru.
Reign of Henry VIII in
England.
Ming dynasty in China.
1565
Landing of Legaspi,
1588 Defeat of the Spani.
Manila founded 1571.
Armada by the English.
1603
Uprising of Chinese against
Spanish; also in 1662.
1606
Uprising of Japanese.
1607 Virginia settlod.
1620 Pilgrim Fathers.
1762-64
British occupation of the
1763 British acquire
Philippines.
Canada from the Frenoh.
1837
Port of Manila opened to
1836 First steamship in
foreign trade
the Pacific Ocean.
Development of electric
telegraphy.
1861
Beginning of successful
1861-5 Civil War in
campaigning against the
U.S.A.
Mohammedan Moros.
1865
Japan reopened o
the world.
1872
The Cavite revolt.
1871 German Empire cs-
tablished.
1876 Developnent of
Blectric lighting and
the telophone.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
-139-
Time
Philippines
Elsewhere
1892
Orgunization of the Kutipunan
Society demanding Spanish
reforms.
1896
Execution of Rizal and start
First successes with
of revolution.
radio.
1898
American occupation of the
Spanish-American W.
Philippines.
1899
Filipino leaders deolaro an
indepondent ropublic,
and the Filipino-American
ar breaks out.
1900
Govern ent by a Commission.
Successful airplane
flights.
1907
A Filipino Assembly is
formed as a lower house.
1909
Tariff changes that led to
full commercial reci-
procity with the United
States by 1913.
1915
Start of "Filipinization"
1912 China becomes
policy.
republic.
Demooratic party
ousts Republica
in U.S.A.
1916
Jo us Law.
1917 United States
enters the Great
War.
1921
Wood-Forbes Commission
1920 League of Na-.
examines Philippine con-
tions formed.
ditions for the new Re-
Republicans retu:
publican rugime.
to power in U.
Washington nav
treaty, 1922.
1930
Somo two thousand Filipino
delegatos meet as the
first independence con-
gress.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.99)
-140-
Time
Philippines
Elsewhere
1933
Negotiations regarding indopend-
1932 Formation of Man-
ence, resulting (1934) in the
choukuo.
Tydings- McDuffie act giving
Democratic Victory in
a triul period.
U.S.A.
1934-35
Filipino convention meets to
draft a constitution.
1944
Independence?

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
-141-
A SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bean, Robert B.
The Races of Man. The University Society Inc., New York,
1932. 134 pages. (A background picture of man's racial
charaoteristics and dispersal over the earth.)
This relates particularly to Chapter III.
Kroeber, lfred L.
Peoples of the Philippines. merican Museum Press, New York,
2nd edition 1928. 224 pages.
(Emphasizes the pre-Christian customs and beliefs.)
Relates particularly to chaptors III, IV, X.
Steiger, Geo.N.
A History of the Orient. Cinn and Co.. Boston, 1926. 469
Beyer, H.Otley,
pages. (Traces the carly relationships of Malaysia
and Benitez,Corrado
with asia and Europe.)
Rolates to chapters III, IV, V.
Benitez, Conrado
Hictor. of the Philippines. Ginn and Co., Boston, 1926. 472
pugus. (Reviews with special fullnoss the early
Spanish descriptions of Filipino life.)
Relates to chapters III, IV, V. VI, VII.
Barrows, David P.
History of the Philippines. Yorld Book Co., Yonkers-on-Hudson.
Revised edition 1926. 406 puges. (The best short
history of the islands and their people.)
lolutes to chapters III-VII, XIV.
Forbes, W. Cameron
Tic Thilippine Islunds. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, 1928.
Two volunes, Tl48 pages. (Tho standard detailed re-
ference work, especiully us regards the American
administration.)
Relatos to ohapters II, VII-XV.
Miller, Hugo H.
Economic Conditions in the Philippines. Ginn and Co.,Foston,
revised cdition 1929. 373 pages.
Felates to chaptors I. -XIII.
Miller,H.H. and
Intermediute Googruphy. Ginn und Co., Boston, new edition,
Polley, M.E.
12. 16 pages. (. school text, half of which is
devoted to general and regional geography and econo-
mics of the Philirpines, with plontiful maps and
illustrations.)
Macaraig, Serafin E.
Community Problems. The Educational Supply, Manile 1933.
212 pagos. (m elementary study of Philippine socic)
conditions, propured us u text for Philippine schools.)
Rclates to chapters VIII on.
Keesing. F.M. and M.
Taning Thilippine Hoadlunters, A Study of Government and of
Cultural Change in Northern Luzon.
Stanford Univer-
sity Press, 1934. 288 pages. (Shows how the non-
Christians are becoming udjusted into the wider
Philippine lifc.)
Relatos to ohapters II on.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
-142-
Russell, Chas.E.
The Hero of the Filipinos. The Century Co., New York,
and Rodriguez,E.B.
1923. 392 pages. (The life of Jose Rizal.)
Buell, Raymond L.
Philippine Independence. Foreign Policy Association,
New York, April 30, 1930. (A soholarly Ameriour
View on the political issue.)
Relates ta ohapters VII, XIV.
Kalaw, Maximo M.
The Philippine Question. Institute of Paoifio Rela-
tions, Manila, 1931. 90 pages. (The Filipino
arguments in favor of immediate independenoe.)
The Philippine Magazino
(edited by A.V.H.Hartendorp). Philippine Eduoation
Co., Manila. (A monthly journal contributed to
by Filipino and Amerioan writers, and oontaining
stories, poems, pictures and artioles that give a
splendid idea of Philippine conditions.
Recently
made a text in Philippine sohools.)
