894.24 Japan, Equipment And Supplies., November 22, 1938 - May 1, 1939 (File 1098), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.24-1098-1   Pages: 436   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.24-japan-equipment-and-10/894.24%20Japan%2C%20Equipment%20And%20Supplies.%2C%20November%2022%2C%201938%20-%20May%201%2C%201939%201098-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
AM HIRAM DLLKES
N1938
ask11-26 38
1117
fr/om
November 22, 1978
Dear Mr. Secretary:
80 1938
ember
I a writing as a member of the Roard of Foreign Misahs
of the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America,
to express the hope that the United States Goverrment vill
take every practical means, irect or indirect, to bring
to an end a traffic from our country which is enabling the
Japanese Government to carry on its defenseless war of
aggression ainst the people of China.
Vhile I knov thut our Government har repeatedly rotested
against the bombing of undefended Chinese cities and the
unnecessary slaughter of Chinese non-combatants, I believe
that it is high time that we should take more ag ressive
steps in this critical situation.
894.24/502
Ver: sincerely yours,
Ellian man Frela,
1
Lilliam Hiram Foulkes
DD
V.HF:S
The Honorable Cordell Hull
FAHS
Secretary of State
143
Vashington, D.C.
F/A

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.92)
november 80 195b.
Geer Dr. Foulkes:
The reseipt is acknowledged of your letter of Neves-
ber 22, 1938, 1n regard to the situation now ebtaining in
the Far East.
The viewe which you have expressed have reseived
eareful attention and you may be assured that we, at all
894.24/502
simes, weleome statements of opimiom frem thoughtful
sourees.
There is tramamitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Reselution of Congress approved May 1, 19s7, commonly
referred to as the Noutrality Aet. It will be obeerved
that Seetion 1 (a) of this Jeint Resolutien provides that,
whemever the Presidemt shall find that there exists a
state of war between er ameng twe or more foreign states,
he shall proelaim suek fast. hould the Presidemt issme
a preslasmation finding that a state of war exists between
Ghina and Japan, the expert from this country ef arms,
ammanitien,
Walllam Miram Foulkes, D.D.,
F/A
o1a Paret mrch,
Sesars, Bem Jerseg.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.92)
0
would be immediately prohibited. In the abeemee ef smch
a proelamatien, there 1s me statutery autherity for pre-
veating eash experts.
In determiaing net to issse a proelametien, the
President has exereised the diseretien vested in his 
the statute. He could mot fail to recogmise that the
primary purpese of this statate is to keep this esustry
eur of war, and he, of sourse, felt obliged to take inte
account all the pertinent cenditions and eireumstanses.
Incidentally, I may strees the feet, in view of what is
abeve stated, that a preelamatien weuld heve placed an
embarge on the shipmeat of the material mentiened net
enly to Japan but to Ghina.
The Beutrality Aet, moreever, dees mot authorise
the Presideat or the Seeretary of state under any eir-
oumstasses to prehibit the export of commedities ether
then arme, ammunition, and implemeats of war. the
artieles and materials whieh are censidered to be arss,
ammunitien, and implemente of war are emumerated in the
President's Preelamatien of May 1, 1939, which 1s set
forth under Part II of the enslosed copy of the pamphlet
Iateratiesal Traffie_a Arme.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.88)
You may be laterested te knew that sinse Jaiy 1,
1937, the Bepartment of State has issued lieemses fer
the export of aras, ammeaitien, and implements of war
to amine 1n the value of $14,s8s,8ss.21 and to Japan in
the value of $10,793,866.38.
Simcerely youre,
For the Aoting Searetary of State:
Joseph C. Green, Chief
Offiee ef Arms and Menitiems Semtrel
melesures:
1. Jeint Reselution.
2. Pamphlet.
H
NOV 29 1938.
A true coy 
DO
the sig
ns!.
0
FE
11/26/38
reew

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
Asststan! Seoretary
os Stato
MEN'S ASSOCIATION
921 MADISON AVENUE. N. Y. C.
SAYRE
November 25, 1938
Under-Secretary of State,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
arted.
RVH
December 5 1938.
Dear M. Sayre,
心
5
I have the honor to transmit
to youha stabement signed by members of the
Men's Association of Ladison Avenue Pres-
byter n Church of New York City petition-
ing the President and Congress to end the
traffic in war materials between this
country and Japan.
We take pride in the fact that
our minister claims you for a friend, and
constantly refers to the great work you
are accomplishing in the cause of inter-
national brotherhood.
Division of
A EASTERN AFFAIRS
Very sincerely yours,
DEC 5-1938
m.S.Dimmork
Department of State
President

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.88)
Mr. Franois Sayre
Under-Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Sayre:
WHEREAS, the people of the United States desire peace and deplore international
lawlessness and aggression, and
WHEREAS, the Japanese invasion of China, fomented by the military party of Japan.
has led the United States of America and many other nations to indict Japan as
a violator of the Nine-Power Treaty and the Kellogg pact, and to protest ropeat-
edly against the meroiless bombing of undefended Chinese cities, the unnecessary
slaughter of Chinese civilians, and the destruction and imperilment of schools,
churohes, hospitals, and business enterprises in which their nationals are engaged,
894.24/5C3
and,
WHEREAS. we feel put to shame that American raw materials are being used to manu-
facture weapons of war in Japan, that American planes are being used to carry
bombs from America for the destruction of chinese civilian populations, that shells
from America are loading Japanese guns, and that America is supplying to Japan huge
quantities of scrap iron, oil, trucks, and other materials used in the furtherance
of the war, over and above the amount of our nomal trade of recent years, and
WHEREAS, we sympathize with the chinese people in their desire to build up an
independent, democratic state, an end gravely threatened by the present aggression
of Japan, and deplore the traffic which makes it possible for certain merican
interests to profit from the wanton destruction of the innocent victims of Japan-
ese aggression,
THERkFoRE, we the undersigned respectfully petition the :resident of the United
States and Congress, in accordance with the principle of the Good Neighbor and in
the interests of the people of the United States, China and Japan, to take every
practicable means, direct or indirect, to bring to an end a traffic from our coun-
try which is compelling us to be a partner in the destruction of the Chinese people.
The undersigned are members of the Men's Association of the Madison Avenue Presby-
terian Churoh of New York City:
smds ohu L Pehocu ! Luckem 
Rgfert merzdorf
Gohni blarke r on Hoar
Jolu BL
Silw Lhart
vayuoman Edward fa Mill
EeglSvhort
PWellia Feas.
WTmanek.
Arthur thooi
Josuatorn Snge.   
Sohe- Ruyft-
Dannel meyer
THHufertlash
Joln asks
IthMackeown
L ghnson
Thome Campbeee Michasl Hartt
a

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.89)
becember 5 1958,
ear.Dmee31
the reseipt 1s asknowledged of your letter of Novem-
ber 2s, loss, addressed to the Nonorable Franeis B. Sayre,
Assistant seeretary of state, enelosing a resolution 1n
regard to the yar Eastern situation whick was signed by a
number of members of your Assosiation.
894.24/503
Your coursesy in transmitting this resolution to the
pepartment is greatly appreelated, and you may be assured
that it will reseive apprepriate comsideration.
There is tranemitted herewith a copy of the Joins
Recolution of Congress mpproved May 1, 1937, commenly re-
ferred to as the Noutrality Aet. It will be observed
that Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides that
whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or mong twe or more foreign statee
he shall preelaim sueh fast. should the Presidemnt issme
...
President, Men's Asssstation,
F/A
Madicem Aveawe preshyterian Cherc,
S2l Madison Avenne
Now Yook, Hom Youtk.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
Ghina and Japan, the export from this eountry of arms,
ammmmition, and laplements of war to beth China and Japam
would be immediately prokibited. In the abeenee of suck
a proslamation, there 1s no statutory mthority for pre-
vonting soch exports.
In determiming not to issve a proelamatiom the
President has éxereised the diseretion vested in him by
the statute. Ne could not fail to recognise that the
primary purpose of this statute is to keep this country
out of war, and be, of sourse, felt obliged to take imto
assount all the pertiment conditions and eirsumstanees.
Incidentally, I may stress the fact, in view of what is
above stated, that a proelamation would have plased an
embarge on the shipment of the material mentiomed not
only to Japan but to China.
The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does not smthorise
the President or the seeretary of state under any eir-
cmstanees to prohibit the export of commoditiss other
than arms, ammemition, and implements of war. The
artieles and materials whieh are considered to be arms,
ammmmition, and implements of war are  enmmerated in the
President's Preelamation of May 1, 1939, which is set
forth umser Part II of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet
Lntaraattenal

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.88)
You may be iaterested to know that sinee Jaly 1,
1907, the Department of state has lssmed lloeases for
the expert of aras, mmmition, end implements of er
to ahima in the value of $14,306,002.30 and te Japam
1n the valme of $10,793,065.38.
sineerely yours,
For the Aeting Beeretary of state:
Gharles w. Tost, Aeting Gief
Office of Arms and Mumitions Centrel
Enclosurest
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
OR
DEC 6 1938.PM
A
th
5
Pnt
BEE12193

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
vollember  195.
CARLETON COLLEGE
NOV
939
NORTHFIELD, MINNESOTA
ae
November 17, 136
DEAN OF THE COLLEGE
President Franklin D. Roosevelt
White House
Washington, D. C.
/504
My dear Mr. President:
244-24
I protest vehemently against any further
participation by the people of the United States
894.24/504
in the supplying of munitions and other commodi-
ties to Japan to be used in the war against China.
I should protest even if the refusal of
the American Government to permit further flow of
such supplies to Japan should involve us in war
with that country.
Very respectfully yours,
Lindsey Blayney
Dean of the College
LB/m
Division of
FA? FASTERN AFFAIRS
2-1938
F/A
Lepartmeny ut State

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.94)
vecember 5 1958.
My dear Dr. Blayney:
By referenee from the white Nouse I ackmewledge
the receipt of your letter of November 17, 19se in regard
to the export of munitions and other commodities to Japan.
There is tranemitted herewith a copy of the Joint
894.24/504
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, commonly
referred to as the Neutrality Act. It will be observed
that Seetion 1(a) of this Joint Resolution provides that
whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall proclaim such fact. should the President 1ssue
a proelamation finding that a state of war exists between
Chime and Japan, the expert from this country of arms,
ammunitien, and implements of war to both Chine and Japan
would be immediately prohibited. In the absence of such
a preelmmation, there is no statutory authority for
preveating
F
Lindsey Blayney, Ph.D., LL.D., Dean,
A
Carleten College,
Morthfiela, Mimmesete.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.94)
preventing such exports.
In determining net to issue a preelamatien, the
President has exereised the diseretion vested in him by
the statute. Ze eould mot fail to resdgnise that the
primary purpese of this statute is to kemp this eoentry
out of war, and he, of oourse, felt obliged to take inte
ascount all the pertinent conditioms and ciroumstanees.
Insidentally, I may stress the fact, in view of what is
abeve stated, that a proolamation would have plased an
embarge on the shipment of the material mentioned not
enly to Japan but to Chima.
The Neutrality Aot, moreever, dees mot authorize
the President or the Secretary of State under any cir-
oamstanees to prohibit the expert of ommodities other
tham arms, ammunition, and implements of war. The arti-
cles and materials which are considered to be arme, amme-
mition, and implements of war are enumerated in the
President's Proelamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth
under Part II of the enslosed copy of the pamphlet Inter-
mmtlonal Traffle n Ame.
You may be interested to kmow that sinee July 1,
1937, the Departaent of state has 1ssued 11eeases for the
expert of arms, ammmition, and implemente of war to
a11m

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
mine 1n the value of $14, 306,002.30 and to Japen 1n
the valme ef $10, 793,865.38.
sincerely yours,
For the Aeting Seeretary of state:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Office of Arms and Munitions Centrel
Enclosures:
1. Joint Resolution.
2. Pamphlet.
5
CA:RVH:LAR:BS 11/30/38
copy of
OR
DEC 3 1938.
FE
yeu

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 28, 1938
In connection with the statement
in the attached letter from Mr. Derk
Bodde in regard to a loan made to Japan
by American bankers, a statement is
suggested as follows: "The Department
is not aware that any loans have been
obtained recently in the United States
by Japanese borrowers."
reew
£9.C
FE:Christenson:JIS

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
UNIVERSITYOFPENNSYLVANIA
PHIODERAIA
THE GRADOATE SCHOOL
894.7
Oriental Studies
November 22, 1938
1938
a11/30/3
H.E. Cardoll Hull, Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
My dear Mr. Hull:
For about a year and one half we have been witness of the
gradual destruction of the world's oldest civilization, China, by one
of the most dangerous and aggressive countries in the world today,
Japan. This destruction has been brought about by a war as savage
and brutal as any in modern, pernaps in any time. Of the people in
this country, more than ninety percent, I have no doubt, are in
theory, at least, sympathetic to China in this matter. They would be
deeply shocked if they were generally to realize that America, more than
any other country. has made Japan's continuation of this war possible.
America supplies Japan with 55% of the oil, scrap iron, copper, dies
for machines, and innumerable other praducts, both raw and finished,
without which Japan could not continue fighting for more than a few
8
months. And not only this, many of these products are ones wnich Japan
6
could not replace from other countries.
4
It is appalling that the people of this country are left in
2
ignorance of this vital fact, or that recently a loan of about seventy-
4
two million dollars could be made to Japan through a third party by
certain promient American financiers, without any notice of this fact
5
being taken by our so-called free press. The attitude that the people
0
of the United States would take on these questions is abundantly made
5
clear by the attitude they have already taken on matters upon which
they do have knowledge: the recent events in Germany. They must be made
fully aware of the consequences of their ignorance and apathy toward
the relationships of the United States with the rar East. Action can
and must be taken in Congress to put a definite end to a bloody traffic
with Japan which not only is destroying a weak and friendly nation,
but runs directly counter to all the principles for which our own
country stands.
F
Respectfully yours,
Dark Boode
Derk Bodde, Lecturer in Chinese Studies,
University of Pennsylvania

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.84)
December 0.
R
Goar r. Bodd0r
the reseipe is neknewledged of your lotter of
Devenber ts, lose in regard to ertain matters pertaiaing
to he situatien mev obtaining La the Par East.
There is sranemitted hereul th, a copy of the Joimt
smosolutien of Gongress appreved May 1, los?, eommenly
894.24/505
referred te as the Neutrallty Aet. It will be ebeerved
that Seettem I(a) of this Joint Reselution prevides that
whsmever the President shall find that here existe a
state ef war between er among twe er mere foreign states
he shall preelaim such faet. should the Presidemt asese
a preelematien finding that a state of war exieés between
Chine md Japas, the expert fren thie coumery of arms,
mstsen, and Implements of mar to beth Ghine and Sapen
wmuld be aamediately prekibased. In the absenee of such
a preelamatien, there is no statutery autherity for
prevesting
Letrer,
F

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.89)
In Goternining not to ssose a preelamatton, tho
President has exereised the diseretien vested in him by
the statute. Ro ceuld not fall to resegaise thes the
pramesg purpese of thie statute is to koep thie eoentey
out of war, and be, of eourse, folt ebliged to take late
aeccunt all the pertinent conditioms and eiremstamees.
Insidemtally, I may stress the faet, in view ef mhat is
abeve stated, that a preelamatien would have placed am
embarge on the shipment of the material memtiemed met
ealy to Japam but to China.
The Bestrality Aet, moreever, does mot authorise the
Preaident er the Seeretary of state under any eiroumstanses
to prekibit the expert of commedities other thes arms,
ammumities, and implements of war. The artieles and mate-
rials which are considered to be arms, ammumitien, and
implements ef war are enumerated in the President'e Pree-
lamatiem of May 1, 19s7, whiek 1s set ferth under Part II
of the chelesed copy of the pamphlet Laternatlenal Irafthe
An Arne. It will be observed that oll, serep iree,
cepper, dies fer mackises asd similar predusts ere net
ineluded in this emumeraties. There is me statute mew in
asistemee which weuld wutherise the President er the
Sesretary of state to prekibet the expert of sesk pretmese

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.86)
t.
You may be snterested to kmou thst sisse July 1.
1987, the Departaent of state has lesued l1ecmses for the
eapers of es, ampmitien, nd implemente of ar te
ne 1a the value of 814, 306,008.30 and to Japem ta thee
value of 010,703,006.36.
with regard to the last paragreph of your lester,
I have to lafere you that the Department 1s met avare
that aay loans have been obtained recently in the Uaised
states by Japanese berrowers.
Sineerely yours,
For the Aoting Seeretary of state:
Gharles W. Yost, Assistems Chief
Offiee of Arme and Mumitions Contrel
Eaclesures:
1. Jeint Reselution.
2. Pamphlet.
CR H
DEC 3 1958
copy of
red origi-
t1.
Ann
S
un
CAI RVEI LARISS 1/20/20
EA
FE

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
December 16 1930.
3D7940
 s
182 North Broadway
Yonkers, New York
December 6, 1938
RVH-EAS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The State Department
894.24
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:
m
894.24/506
Will the company which has purchased the Sixth Avenue
Elevated have to secure the permission of the State
Department to sell it to Japan? I think many citizens
would like to know.
Since ely yours,
BT/mlb
Agnt Saylor
F/A

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
December 16 1950.
My Gear Mr. Tayler:
The reeeipt is aeknowledged of your letter ef
Deeember 6, 19se in whieh you inquire "wil1 the
eempany which has purehased the Sixth Avenue Elevated
894.24/506
have to seeure the permission of the State Depertment
to sell it so Japan?"
I assume from your question that you desire to
know whether there is any statute in existenee which
would prehibit the export to Japan of the iron and
steel serep obtained from the rasing of the Sixth
Avemme Elevated railway.
In this conneetion I have to inform you that under
the provisions of the Moutrality Lot of May 1, 1937, a
sepy of whieh is enelosed for your eonvenient referenee,
the President 1s granted the authority to prohibit the
export
Mr. Bent Tayler,
102 North Breadway,
Yenkers, Now York.
F/FG

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.90)
esmpert of arms, ammenitien, and implemente of war to
belligerent states. This Aet, hovever, speeirieally
limite the artieles which may be defined as arms,
ammunitien, and implements of war and emeludes such
materials as iren and steel serep. There is me statute
now in effeet whieh would mutherise the President to
prehibis the expert of iren er steel serap to Japam er
te any ether foreign eountry.
Sineerely yours,
For the Aeting Seeretary of State:
Charles w. Yost, Assistant Chief
Office of Arms and Mumitions Gentrel
Emelesure:
Gopy of Noutrality
Aot of May 1, 1937.
DEC 16 1938.
A true cpy of
DEC 16 1958.PM
the signd origi-
nal.
Ant
5
z2/24/ss
pOUD

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.96)
AND
MUNIT
CONH
1938
DEC
182 North Broadway
Yonkers, New York
December 22, 1938
894.24/506
Mr. Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Office of Arns and Munitions Control
Department of State
F.W.
Washington, L. C.
Refer to C. 894.24,/506
Dear Mr. Yost:
Thank you for our courtes in acknovled ing my inquiry
of December C.
Sincerely yours,
BT/mlb
Bent Taylor
F/A

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.92)
TH
COMMITTEE ON
APPROPRIATIONS
Congress of the United States
Souse of Representatibes
Washington, D. C.
78 DEC S  918
December 8, 1938
secombar 11958.
844.20
Cuek 12-12-
4
Ruro/anig
Honorable Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
I enclose herewith copy of letter from
Rev. Frank C. Seymour, Pastor of the Houghs Neck Congre-
gational Church in Quincy, Massachusetts, with reference
894.24/507
to the situation in the Orient.
I shall be glad to submit to him any views that
you may care to give me in this connection.
Sincerely ygurs,
y
—C
P:vicion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
CEC1019
Department of State
F/A

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
HOUGHS NECK CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH
Y
QUINCY, MASSACHUSETTS
Pastor - Frank C. Seymour
300 Manet Avenue
1 Dec. 1938
Hon. Richard B. Wigglesworth,
House of Representatives,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Wigglesworth:
Can you not do something to stop the
shipments of materials to Japen which enable her to carry
on her devastation of China? It is clear to everyone
that Japen is an outrageous aggressor. All the spirit of
American tradition and of the American people is opposed to
such business and upholds the right of e people to self-
government end self-determination. Yet our Country with
such principles is actually providing the iron and trucks
and any number of other muterials by which China is being
crushed. This is an intolereble situntion. You know the
political means by which it can be stopped. The sympethy
of the American people is overwhelmingly with China. Any-
one who helps to stop this practicel alliance of America
with Japan for the destruction of Chine will earn the lasting
gratitude of the American people.
Very earnestly yours,
(signed) Frank C. Seymour

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.80)
bemer 13 2000
lerth
medge the receipt of your lotter of pecsm-
 8, less, enelesing a copy of a letter from the
894.24/50
Reveroné Prank 0.
our, Noughs Neck Gongregational
thom mew eining in the yar East.
It is mgested that you mey ia to tee to
507
 seur the enelosed coples of the Joint Reten
of May 1, los? and the pemphlet Internlel  in
me and inform kim semewhat along the follewing 11nees
It mll be obeerved thet mestion 1 (a) ef
me mere foreign states
a be immediately
prokinéted.
A
Henorae
o of Rte.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.86)
of Mag 1, 193t, which 2s set forth wnder Part 2
he enalosed copy of the pamphlet
1959, the Department of state has 1ssned lieenses 
the valme of 810,793,065.88.
sineerely youre,
Summer Welles
Asting seeretary
melesures:
ms Beselution.
origt-
ORキ
DEC 13 19583

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.94)
CEIVED
OBERLIN COLLEGE
STAT
OBERLIN. OHIO
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
38
AM 10 57
December 6, 1938
In reply to CA 894.24/470
ALL KEUORDS
N5
8-1938
200mber 21 1950.
R. MOORE
gont
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
Mr. R. Walton Moore,
Department of State,
DEC171938
Washington, D.C.
Department of S
112/
IVH MEK
Dear Mr. Moore:
Please accept my hearty thenks for your letter
of November 28 and for its enclosure.
894.24/508
I note that in your letter of November 28 you
state that the action of the Depertment ss set forth in the
Department's circular letter of July 1, 1938, was based upon
this country's general and unreserved condemnation of the
bombing of civilian populations from the air; snd that you sey
that "only in such exceptional cases does the Department take
action of that advisory character."
It is my conviction that the country does now gen-
erally and unreservedly condemn the continued exportation of
munitions and war materiels to Japan; and that action by the
Department in respect to such exportetion would, therefore,
be es thoroughly justified es its excellent action in the case
of exportetion of airplanes and eirplane equipment.
Yours sincerely,
EmeettH Wilkins
EHW JH
F/ A

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.92)
secember 21 1958.
y dear s. Wilkins:
The regeipt is aekmowledged of your letter of Deeem-
ber 6, l9ss with further regard to the export of mmitiems
and war mmterials to Japam.
The observattoms set forth in the last paragraph of
894.24/508
your letter have been noted and will, you may be sure,
receive the Department's most careful consideration.
sineerely yours,
For the Acting Seeretary of state:
B. WALTON MOORE
Coumselor.
DEC 81 19387
Braest H. Wilkins, Ph.D.,
Prestaemt, Oberlin College,
Oberlin, Ohio.
A trut
F/A
the
nad.
Ant
0
CA: RVH: MEX 1 SS
12/1512/20/38

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
BOARD OF CHRISTIAN EDUCATION
OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
HAROLD MCA. ROBINSON, GENERAL SECRETARY
REV. T. RAYMOND ALLSTON, D. D.
212 PATTERSON BUILDING
FIELD
FOR CMRISTIAN EDUCATION
OMaHA, NeBraskA
December 7, 1938
Cal12/16
Honorable Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
1
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Hull:
134
Sometime ago I wrote you in regard to America's part in sustaining
Japan in her aggressive warfare in China, and asked for advice as
to what steps an individual or group of individuals might take to
stop this traffic in destruction. You were very gracious in re-
sponding to my letter with a clear explanation of the present situa-
894.24/509
tion.
From your letter I take it that present legislation makes it impossi-
ble for us as a people and for our government to take any action other
than the shameful practices of which we are guilty in the matter of
trade relations.
I respectfully request, therefore, that you put forth every effort to
change this deplorable situation by bringing about such legislation as
will increase the discretionary powers of the President and Congress
in dealing with such situations so that they may name the aggressor
in a foreign conflict and apply an embargo on that nation which will
prohibit not only the shipment of finished war implements, but also
of war materials.
I am glad to know of the courageous position our government has taken
both at home and abroad in regard to Japan's guilt as an aggressor
nation in the present conflict. If existing legislative measures
make it impossible for our government to act in keeping with the
declarations of conviction, it is high time that those legislative
restrictions be removed.
Very sincerely yours,
5. Raymond eltotm
Field Representative for
TRA:KS
Christian Education
F/A
2

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
SA
RECEIVED
DEC 9 1938
DEVISON OF
35.46-10750
San Diego, California
November 29, 1938
Franklin D. Roosevelt
litt
The White House
Washington, D. C.
12/14
My dear I'r. President:
A mass meeting of between 500 and coo people
met in New Town Park Sunday, November 27 at 3 P. Y. under
the auspices of the San Diego 3ranch of the Women's Inter-
national League for Peace and Freedom and the San Diego
Peace Committee to protest the shipment of scrap iron
894.24
to Janan. This meeting was all the more effective because
of its nearness to the 50o0 tons of scran iron destined
for Janan.
During the meeting Dr. Lewis 3. Lesley of San
Diego State Coliege moved th:t a communication be sent
894.24/510
to you, the President of these United States asking that
the present Neutrality Legislation of the Congress of the
United States of America be put into effect at once, and
that scran iron be pleced on the banned list as soon as
possible. This motion met vith thc unanimous approval of
the groun present.
Dr. Lesley and other sneakers drew attention to
the fact that now that China had been cut off from receiving
supnlies the Weutrality Act could be annlied to the
advantare of China.
r. President, e have sent fo the State
Denertment t verious times sne  oo sint tures to
enclosed netition. e carncstly invi'c ycur reconsideretion
of this vhole m tter tnd refer you to our forner corres-
pondence CA 94.: ///6 Chas. . Vost. A copy of this letter
and 1ooo signatures to the protest has been sent to the
State Denartment.
FILED
Resnectfully yours,
Kate H. Keving
(Irs.) Kate H. Dewing for the W. I. I.. P. F.
and The San Die go P. C.
F/A

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
City
Name
Address
25
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego, California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.88)
CA
Dee. f, 1935.
J. E. SHOEMAKER
BSES LAWTON AVENUE
OAKLAND. CALIF.
RECEIVEL
Hom. Corell Hall
Mishingtn D.C.
Dear r Hall:-
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
DEC 16 1938
eember 19 195
rably to my frmar Letter wrich came
to tme in the Trine L.A.894. 24/338)
and which shomed clearly Haat orer
department raa pomrlezo to Slop
894.
2
5
asThe
uggrrsson, emder the pro-
ent muutrality lom, witha sopbing
The sale to toth sides in the mar.
non that there seome to be some tope
amending the lano in such a
able to deseriminale againal.
an aggrisgor natirn whilh still
li

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.78)
tim wwhich no bring mijiestifiaty
many who um rrging yon to do
whaterer nio pazschle n has-
ten the passing I sueh an
umendsment. cond Hhes Spam the
way for u corrction' f the
bor mation whrith unt anfs-
the ceggmssor ratim makes
Roikle.
make tlis plna the mor
confidntly babanse 2 puon yon
to he a ttme Cimorican who

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.91)
secember 19 1938.
y dear Mr. shoemker!
The reseipt 1s aekmowledged of your letter of Deses-
ber 8, loss with further regard to the situation now
ebtaiming 1n the Far East.
894.24/511
Your observatioms with respeet to the amendment of
the Meutrality Aet have been moted and you may be assured
that they will receive most careful consideratiom.
Simcerely yours,
For the Aoting Seoretary of state:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief,
DEC 17 19%.
Offiee of Arms and Manitions Comtrel.
Do 1 13.PN
Mr. J. B. hoommker,
S365 Lawtom Avenue,
Oakland, Califormia.
Q
A true
he sigd
nal
prt
CA:RVE: MEK: SS
12/15/38
PE

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
UNIVERSITYOFPENNSYLVANIA
RECEVE
PHIADEPAIA
1038 DEC 12 AM 11 24
THE GRADUATE SCHOOL
Decemper 20 1958.
Oriental Studies
December 10, 136
1938
1.k.12115/38
Mr. Charles w. Yost, Assistant Cnief
R.VH MEK
Office or Arms and Munitions Contro
Department of State
Pivision of
nashington, D.C.
FAH EASTERN AFFAINS
DEC16 1938
Deperof Btate
My dear Mr. Yost:
505
I am creatly indebted to you for your kind letter of
December 5 (concerninE CA 894.24 sodde, Dort), witn its enclosures.
894.24/5
In your letter you point out the Tact, of whicn I was aiready aware,
that larger quantities of finisned munitions nave been snipped irom
the United States to Cnina tnan to Japan. sut concernin the export
of "oil, scrap iron, copper, dies for macnines and similar products"
you observe that "tnere is no statute now in existence wnich would
autnorize the President or tne secretary or state to pronibit the
export of such products to japan or to any other country." It is pre-
cisely because of tnis ract that I wrote my ori inal letter. Japan
is a highly industrialized contry, and nence to a considerable degree
2
can manufacture her own armaments; on t.e otner land sne lacks oil,
scrap iron, and other products whicn are essential for war and witnout
which she could not continue flgntine or more t.an a few montns. nat
is urgently needed, tnerefore, is not an embargo on finished armaments,
but one on these essential raw materials, and action snould be taken
for legislation to make sucn an embareo possible. ror selfisn, if for
no other reasons, the United States s..ould do everytning possible to
nelp the Chinese government, ror tne events of t.e past few weeks
nave shown clearly, if any proof were yet necessary, tnat a Japanese
victory would nave a serious effect upon the rest of tne world, parti-
cularly the United States and England. Accordine to a recent numoer of
the New York Ti.mes, England is now contemplating a loan to Cuina, and
the United States s..ould certainly join wita England in sucn a loan,
as well as pass ail legislation possible to stop the flow of vital
raw materials to Japan.
Thanking you for your courtesy, I am,
FLED
Sincerely yours,
Dark Bode
Derk Bodde
F/FG
Assistant Professor of Cninese Studies
!1

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.93)
seoemper 20 1958.
My dear Mr. Bodde:
The receipt is aoknowledged of your letter of Desem-
ber 10, 1938 with further regard to the situation now
obtaiming in the Far East.
894.24/512
Your observatioms with respeet to the emactment of
legislation to prohibit the export of vital raw mterials
to Japan and the granting of a loam by this Goverament
to Chima have been noted and will, I need not add, re-
ceive the most careful consideration.
sincerely yours,
For the Aoting Sesretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief,
Offiee of Arme and Mumitions Control.
Mr. Derk Bodde,
OR K
Assistant Professor of Chimese Studies,
DEC 17 1958.
DSO 20 1958.
The Graduate ssheel,
University of Pemmsylvanis,
A true copy of
Philadelphia, Pemnerlvania.
F/FQ
5
Art
nal.
CA:RVH: MEK: 88
FE
12/15/38
new

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.77)
894.24
mstmatyne
Beartery to o Prem cent
Thin is to be ao ted uhon a billotr
Thefor the hyual affairs tommitic
ithrarced Rup Afo'beppeplinwhioh
duch ecoromicl relatirus as would
foe ured to sufiport the wau pacti
89
panyaggusak hahon lspecially
ast mow wauld biling lrifel
bhina in tis qialehildrn
and irrild u ginthy request tat you
thhisor athr measure ,w being
frassed to allow the united stale 
Tsill muhitions and war yaleria (a
Jahan to hilh to shoy thic
helfhleos fhiolpily af o ti na belisng
this to be pceeding importantd
influeng  Atof Jafan ferm yr
o warh m Chond and who ay thit

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.77)
The daugh  sinc,1921 andau180
werrtgt 1934 and they hanmotayed
the duffsing hoor m this time
Drammed they sro trome what
and sreidand sird I higaj yuri
help to stih Hris war Shy resusing
gn nalin to right wshin matuind
to Jahan twcarlybn mu way
afaggussimaudduslruotiancasbhina.
Rethrictfully Yaurs

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.90)
December 9 1000.
My deer Mr. R1ee:
By referense frem the white Neuse, I acknowledge
the reseipt of your letter of November 15, 193e in re-
gare to N. J. Res. s27 and the s1tuation now ebtaiming
894.24/513
in the Far East.
You may be assured that appropriate eonsideration
will be given to your endorsement of this Joint Rese-
lutien whieh wee introdwsed into the Nouse of Represen-
Satives en Deeember 7, 1937 by Representative 0'Commell
of Montane for the purpese of amemding the Noutrality
Aet of may 1, l93? in certain respeete.
With regard to the Far Eastern situation your at-
Semtien is invited to Beatlon 1 (a) of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, l93?, eemmonly referred to as the
Noutrality Ast, a cepy of whieh is enelesed, which
provi dee
the Reverend
. L. Riee.
F7FG
Alberevalle, Alabme.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
there exists a state of war between or ameng two er
mere fereign states he shall proelaim sueh fect.
should the President 1ssue a preelamation fimding
that a state of war exists between Chine and Japam, the
empert from this country of arms, ammunition, and is-
plemente of war to both China and Japan would be im-
mediately prohibited. In the absemee of such a proela-
mation, there is no statutory authority for preventing
sueh exports.
In determining mot to issue a proolamation, the
President has exereised the disoretiom vested in him
I the statute. He could not fail to recogaize that the
primary purpose of this statute 1s to keep this country
out of war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take in-
to accowmt all the pertinent conditione and ciroumstances.
Imeidentally, I may stress the fact, in view of what 1s
abeve stated, that a proolamatiom would have pleced em
embargo on the shipment of the materlal mentiomed not
omly to Japan but to Chima.
The Neutrality Act, moreever, does not authorise
the President or the Seeretary of State under any eir-
ommstamses to prohibit the expert of commodities ether
them arme, ammumition, and imploments of war. the
artieles

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.91)
atteles ad materiale htch are constdeed to te
munitien, and iuplemente ef war are emumerated in
the President'e Preelasatiem of May 1, 1937, whieh 10
eet ferth wnter Part II of the enelesed eopp ef the
pamphlet Iaternatienal Trattle Aa Arme.
You may be interested to kmow that sinee July 1,
1987, the Department of State has issued l1eenses fer
the expert of arme, emmumition, and implements of war
to China 1n the valme of $14,218,523.21 and to Japam
1a the value of $10,793,865.38.
simeerely yours,
For the Asting Seeretary of state:
Charles W. Yost, Asslstant Caief,
Offiee of Arms and Wumitione Cemtrol.
melesures:
1. Jeint Resolution.
2. International Traffie
in Arms.
DEC 6 1950
DEC 7 1938.
th
12/2
nat
new

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
OF
DE
1938
actedys
91 William Street
Lyons, New York
November 19, 1938
Honorable Franklin D. Roosevelt
Jecember 6 1930.
The White House
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
The Geneva District Conference of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, meeting at Waterloo, New York on November
18, 1938, voted unenimously to send a protest to the President
of the United States and to the Secretary of State against
allowing war materials of any kind to be shipped fro... the
894.24/514
United States to Japen or to any ggressor nation.
The Geneva District Conference is composed of
ministers and laymen representing sixty-five churches with a
membershi of 13,000.
Very truly yours,
844.24
J. R. Carpenter
Secretary
Geneva Jistrict Conference
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIHS
DEC 5-1938
Departiment  Sty
F/FG

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.93)
dear r. Carpemter:
my roferenee frem the white Nouse, I acknesleege
the reseipt of your letter of November 19, 1938 1n
whieh you state that yeur Conferenee at a meeting held
at Waterlee, New York on November 18, 1ose voted wmeni-
meusly to preteet to the President and the Seeretary of
894.24/51
state agaimst the exportation of war materiale of any
kind to Japan, er to my aggresser netion.
Your eourtesy in furmishing the President with the
views of your Ceaferenee in regard to this matter is
greatly appreciated.
with regard to the Far Eastern situation your at-
tention 1s imvited to Seetion 1 (a) of the Joint Reso-
lutien of May 1, 1937, eemmonly referred to as the
Neutrality
Ur. J. R. Carpemter, Seeretary,
Geneve Dietriet Cemferense,
91 william street,
Lyens, New York.
F/FO

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.94)
vides that whesever the Prestdent shall find that there
exlets a state of war between or ameng twe or more fere
President issue a preelamation fiading that a state of
war existe between Chine and Japes, the export frem this
coumtry of arms, ammumition, and implemente of wer to
both Chine and Japan weuld be immediately prehibited.
In the abeence of sush a preelamation, there is me statu-
tory asthority for preventing sueh exporte.
In determining mot to issue a proolamation, the
President has exereised the diseretion vested in him by
the statute. He could mot fail to recognize that the
primary purpose of this statute is to keep thie country
out of war, and he, of course, folt obliged to take
into secount all the pertinent conditions and oirows-
stamees. Imeidentally, I may stress the faet, in view
of shat is abeve stated, that a proelamation would have
placed an embargo on the shipment of the material men-
Sioned mot oaly to Japan but to China.
The Nestrality Act, moreever, dees mot authorise
the President or the Beeretary of state méer emy eir-
oumetanees to prohibit the expert of cemmedisies ether
he ares, mmitin, and implemente of war. The

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.94)
in the Precident's Preelamatien ef May 1, 19s7, shicm
is eet forth under Part II of the enelesed eepp of the
pemphlot Internatienal Irattle ia Arme.
You mey be interested to kmow that simee July 1,
1937, the Department of state has 1ssued lieemses fer
the export of arms, ammunition, and implemente of wer
to China 1n the value of $14,218,523.21 and te Japam
in the value of $10,793,865.38.
Simmerely yours,
For the Aoting Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief,
Offiee of Arme and Mumitiens Cemtrel.
melosures:
1. Joimt Reselution.
2. International Trafrie
in Arms.
OR
DEC 6 1958.
@nt
A true copy
CA: RVRN: EIS: S
12/3
the signedur
nat.
とん

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
DEC
mecember 8 1950.
705 W. 39th St.
San Pedro, California
November 19, 1938
Franklin Deluno Roosevelt-
President of the United States of America
The White Houae
FA
18
Dear Mr. Rooaevelt--
The San PedroWritera' Guild, which haa membermhip
of approximately fifty peraons has empowered me to write
894.24/
to you in the name of the organization, proteating the
continued shipment of scrapiron, oil and other necessities
of war to the Japanese government.
It is difficult to underatand why auch wideapread
feeling has been aroused by the treatment of the Jews
in Germany, when for a year and a half we have supplied
515
Japan with well over half of the munition materials with
which she hua deatroyed by most horrible means nearly a
million civilien Chinese, most of them women and children.
There is strong feeling in this port town, among
longshoremen and the club groups, principally the women's
organizations, againat furniahing Japun with further
meamm to complete her destruction of a peaceful and friendly
countyy. The longahoremen are bound by contract to load
any cargo furnished them by the ahipowera, and their
failure to comply with this clause would precipitate
another strike.
FIT
It will be meen, since Japan's recent reply to Secretary
Hull that America will gain nothing by further Japanese
victories. On the contrary, with additional man power and
natural resources ander her control and her lust for power
backed up by an unfriendly Germany and Ituly, Japan would
be a position to dictate to the United States and further
than that, even to institte aggresaion on these shores.
Japanese have already almost taken control of the giant
fishing industry, and, aa you are no doubt informed, publiahed
matter has been taken from Japanese owmed fishing vessela
by United States representatives which show conclusively that
Japan intends building giant air bases in the Pacific and

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
increasing her military and naval atrength.
In the name of common senae and for our own protection,
if the plight of helpless babies and mothesm means nothing
tp us, can we not, as a people, call upon our government tà
protect us by taking from an aggremsor nation the means for
encouraging that aggression?
This town of laboring people standa almost wholly
back of the Mew Deal--this I know--and I feel that the
popularity of the administration will be substantially
trengthened by decisive action from Wushington on this
most pertinent situation.
A frank appraiaal of shipping returns and a warning
to the people that until peace ia reatored we may lose not
only the wartime income but the peace income as well, will
not turn Americans back from aacrificing gain at the expenae
of human auffering, I feel aure. I am willing to do it, and
so ia every one elae with whom I have apoken. We feel that
there ia more prosperity to be found in encouraging peace
than war, looking to the paat for the examples of what
faase proaparity has done for us as a nation.
Americans are generally a humane people, and I feel
sure that there is only a small minority who will oppose
the adoption of druatic humane measures. I feel sure, aa
do the members of the organization for whom I um writing.
that we will gain largely in the long run by giving up now
the financial returns from trading with a ruthless nation
whose ambitions toward ourselves are only carelesaly
concealed.
Any reply that you may aee fit to give the membership
will be greatly appreciated. We would like to hear something
definite about this aituation in a radio broadcase or a
published atatement.
Thank you kindly for any attention you may give the
matter. We arge you not to delay too dangerously.in dealing
with shipowners who count money more than human livea.
Yours truly.
R. Somige Emezy Secre
The San Pedrs Mesters Nhesld

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.93)
necember 8 1958:
My Gear Mise Emery:
By reference from the White House I neknewledge
the reeeipt of your letter of Nevember 19, l9ss in
regard to the export of war and other materlals to
Japan.
894.24/515
Your astention 1s 1nvited to seetion 1 (a) of the
Joint Reselution of May 1, 1937, commonly referred to
as the Noutrality Ast, a copy of which 1s enelesed,
whieh prevides that whemever the President shall find
that there exists a state of war between or ameng twe
or more foreigm states he shall proolaim suoh fast.
should the President issue a proelamation finding that
a state ef war exists between China and Japan, the ex-
port fres this country ef arms, ammunition, and imple-
ments of war te beth chine and Japan would be immediately
prehibited. In the absenee of sueh a proelama tien, there
1s me statutery authority fer preventing sueh experts.
Im
Miss R. Leuise Emery, seeretary
The Ban Podre Wraters Guild,
F/FG
90s West soth strees,
saa Peáre, Galifernia.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.95)
In determining net to issue a preelamatien, the
President has exereised the diseretien vested in him by
the statute. He eould met fall to recegnise that the
primary purpese of this statute is to keep this country
out of war, and he, of couree, folt obliged to take inte
ascsunt all the pertimemt conditiens and eiroumstances.
Imeidentally, I may stross the faet, in view of what 1s
abeve stated, that a preelamatiem would have placed an
embarge en the shipment of the material mentiomed net
only to Japan but to Chima.
The Neutrality Aet, mereover, dees not autherise
the President er the Seeretary of state under any eir-
cumstanees te prohibit the export of ommedities other
than arms, ammunltien, and implements of war. The
artioles and materials whieh are considered to be arms,
ammunitien, and implements of war are enumerated in the
President's Preelamation of May 1, 1937, whieh 1s set
forth under Part II of the enelesed eepy of the pamphlet
Iaternatlennl Traffle An Arne. It will be noted that serap
1ren, eil, and similar produots are not imeluded in suck
emumeratien. There is ne statute mow in existenee which
would autherise the President er the seeretary of state to
prehibit the expert ef serap iron, eil, er similar pretuets

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.92)
-8-
to Japan or to any ether foreign eountry.
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1,
1937, the Department of state has 1seued licenses for
the export ef arms, ammunitien, and implements of war to
China in the value of $14,367,902.30 and to Japan in the
value of $10,793,865.38.
Sineerely yours,
For the Aeting Becretary of Stats:
Charles w. Yost, Aoting Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enolosures:
1. Copy of Joint Rosolution,
May 1, 1937.
2.
Pamphiet - International
Traffio in Arms.
CR
A
DEC 8 1958.
the ie
5.3
DEC 8 1938.PM
AIRAH
FE
pos
12-6-3

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
Fochester, New York
November 21, 198
The Secretary of State
3
Washington, D. C.
Rrit
S1rT
The Rauschenbusch Social Probleme Club, a group of
student ministeis from severel Protestant denominations,
from all parts of the Inited States, and representing a
considerable porticn cf the student body at the Colgate-
Division o.
Fochester Divinity School, Focnester, . Y., desires to
FAR FASTERN AFF
express its feeling regarding the international policy of
DEC5-1.
the present administration.
Depertment ot 
We greatly appreciate your many efforts in tehalf of
peace; we especially epprove the sane irterventicn and moral
suasion of the administration in the recent crisif in Furope;
we believe trat the tdministiation has a sincere desire to
discourage weriare as an internationel policy.
894.24/516
It is in view of cur velief in this sincere desire for
peace that we become it.cretsingly &lermed that more has not
been done to check armed invision, specificellv in China by
Japan.
In consider tion of tne deleterious eccnonic reper-
cussions upon America, shoulc the present Japanest govern-
ment gain full control of China; in consicerition of the
obvious guilt of the Japanese  ilitary ir. inveding 1oreign
9
894.241
soil, irrespective of her withholding open declaration of
war; in consiceraticn of America's lerge share in Japan's
guilt ty virtue of supply from the nited States of over
fifty per cent of Japan's imported wer meteriale; end in
view of Japan's large metsure cf dependence upon these Amer-
ican suppliee and other economic helps for success of her
invasion, we urge upon you to do all in your power to stop
shipment of war materials to the Japenese government. This
means, epecificelly, en embergo upon gasoline and oil, scrap
iron and other metals, automobiles and perte, machinery, all
munitions, and all goods which cen te manufactured by Japan
into munitions.
Even though euch action may mean temporary economic
secrifice on the part of some Americans who at present are
profiting ty this trede, we telieve thet the lessened need
for expenditure upon Americin armemente, continued friend-
ship and free trade with an independent Crina, and preserva-
tion of our national mor:l integrity will far outweigh temp-
orery economic losses incurred by an embergo.
F/FG

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.82)
--2--
DEC 1
1938
We wish, therefore, to go cn record as desiring complete
withdrawal of economic participaticn by America in Japanese,
and all otner, armed invasion where the issue is ts clearly
drewn as in the present cese. Me have the honor to remain,
Hughmaitiou, Jr.
Most respectfully yours,
THE FAUSCHENFUSCH CLUE.
Samuel 0 Morrerle
W.N. Itanives
Efward W. Hrenfuld
R. Alewss Jphnem
Robathgarfeas
J. Liath Raney
Seray A. toaldir
Fauredre Coam fre uttles
Justn W. him
J. Newry Raad
aie Hall
annce H. Carne I.
Thomas H. Cmmise
Q. E duard Dandy
Robent M. Elel eh
fordo
Aldmd. Stone
Grayce bolmin
Edgima. me Clan
 lfnd. Honen
George y. Hice
Foment Fodham
R-ed
C. . m
Rohrt Gordm
Enit Klent
John Parviah
Kermit Ilsen
Jouald Hobba
Frank  Hall
Wely Purkin
Park I Ruohfars
Mernall Blackmore
Nchola Titu
. Glenn Black
Romald R. deed.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.93)
vecember 6 1000.
The Rausehenbuseh Sooial Probleme Club,
Gelgate-Reehester Divinity Sehool,
Reehester, New York.
sire:
894.24/516
The re∞ipt is moknowledged of your letter of
Nevember 21, 1938 in regard to the export of war and
other materials to Japan.
In this conneetion, your attention is invited to
Beetion 1 (a) of the Joint Resolution of May 1, 1937,
Commemly referred to as the Noutrality Aet, a eopy of
mish is enelesed, which provides that whenever the
President shall find that there existe a state of war
between or mmong twe or more foreign states he shall
preelaim sueh fact. Should the President issue a pre-
olamatson fimding that a state of war exists betweem
Chima and Japan, the export from this eoumtry of arms,
ammumissen, and implemente of war to both China and
Japam weuld be immealately prehibited. In the absemee
ef emeh a preelamatien, there is ne etatutery autmertty
F
/FG
for

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
for preventing suoh exports.
In determining not to 1ssue a proclamation, the
President has exercised the diseretion vested in him by
the statute. He could not fall to recognize that the
primary purpose of this statute is to keep this country
out of war, and he, of oourse, felt obliged to take
into account all the pertinent conditlons and ciroum-
stanoes. Inoidentally, I may stress the fact, in view
of what is above stated, that a proclamation would have
placed an embargo on the shipment of the material men-
tioned not only to Japan but to China.
The Neutrality Act, moreover, does not authorize
the Pres1dent or the Secretary of State under any cir-
cumstances to prohibit the export of commodities other
then arms, ammunition, end 1mplements of war. The
articles and materials whioh are considered to be arms,
ammunition, and implements of war are enumerated in
the President's Proclamat1on of May 1, 1937, which 1s
set forth under Part II of the enclosed oopy of the
pamphlet International Traffic in Arme. It will be
noted that gasoline, oll, automobiles, and similar
products are not inoluded in this enumeration. There
1s no statute now in ex1stence whioh would authorize
the President or the Seoretary of State to prohibit
the

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
-3
the export of such produots to Japan or to any other
foreign country.
You may be interested to know that simee July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued licenses for
the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war
to China 1n the value of S14,218,5?3.21 and to Japan
1n the value of $10,793,865.38.
Very truly yours,
For the Aoting Becretary or State:
Charles W. Yost, Asslstant Chief,
Office of Arms and Munitions Control.
Enclosures:
1. J.:nt Resolution.
2. International Traffic
in Arms.
OR
DEC 8 1938.
9
CA:RVRH:EMS:SS 12/3
FE
ween

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.90)
A Petition, Addressed to The President of the United States
Whereas, the United States of America and many other nations
have indicted Japan as the violator of the Nine-Fower Treaty and the
Kellogg Pact, in the present Sino-Japanese conflict, fomented by the
military party of Japan, and hawe repeatedly protested against the
bombings of undefended Chinese cities and the unnecessary slaughter
of Chinese non-combatants, and
Whereas, we feel put to shame that American raw materials are
being used to manufacture weapons of war for Japan, American planes are
being used to carry American-made bombs for the destruction of Chinese
civilian groups, American shells are loading many Japanese guns, and
America is supplying to Japan huge quantities of scrapiron, oil, trucks
and other materials used in the furtherance of the war, over and above
the amounts of our normal trade in recent years, and
Whereas, we sympathise with the Chinese people in their desire
to build up an independent , democratic state, an end gravely threatened
by the present Japanese aggression, and deplore the traffic which makes
it possible for certain American interests to profit from the wanton
destruction of the innocent victims of Japanese aggression,
Therefore, we, the undersigned, respectfully petition the
President of the United States, in accordance with the principle of his
Good Veighbor enunciations, and in the best interests of the people of
the United States, China and Japan, to take every practical means, direct
or indirect, to bring to an end a traffic from our country which is com-
pelling us to be a partner in the destruction of the Chinse people.
Signed by:
Ss X. Funencn
Mio. B. F. Roycot.
Maty E. Singler
dt tre, Luyt. PSoresh.
wht Mra. Pey ringner.
Min Beahric Nrpp
Wh. t Wha, Charles Hardinger Walle Nolan
Wh.& thas, Jamnis Itoy
John w. Theessel
Wh.o Mrz. R. IJanet.
a. Harold  Musser
Mr. Owven Wazsinger
Sue C. Dogeureif.
Grace S Cathrmon
Mro. Lee dT. Pfleegor.
i ubth N. athrn
Clara I. Strrible

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.80)
thre A. Beaer
Mis. bhas.Jimmerman
mn. blaruvee Zilles
Mary 9 Lhively.
AM.Musser.
penelorsizahell
Fostu 1 Boverray
H.L. sehmochn
Dolert Braun
Lee Io Bflengor
marie 8 urmell.
J.G. Reed
myptle F. Klingman
AbmaStilnk
ElizahelhiM. Strunk.
Alorm Payer

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.94)
rocomber 8 1958.
My dear Nr. sehlegel:
By reference frem the white House I acknewledge
the reseipt of your lotter of November 23, l9ss epelouins
a potition in regard to the Far Lastern situatsen aismed
by members ef your congregation.
894.
Your courtesy in tranmitting this petition to she
President 1s greatly appreciated.
.247
Your attention 1s invited to Seetion 1 (a' of the
5
Jeint Reselution of May 1, 1937, commonly referred to
7
as the Neutrality hot, a eopy of whien is encloted, which
prevides that whenever the President shall find thas there
exists a state of war between or ameng two or more foreign
states he shall preelaim suoh faet. Should the presidest
lssue a proelamation finding that a state of war sxists
between China and Japan, the export frem this untry of
arms, ammanitien, and implements of war to beth onime and
Japan mould be immediately prohibited. In the Abstnee of
The Reverend
P. Welsen Sehlegel, Paster,
FG
St. Joha's Brangelleal and Refonmed Churek,
411 Market street,
Miffliabarg, Penaeylvania.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.95)
euch a proelamatien, there 1s ne statutery autherity for
preventing such exports.
In determining not to issue a proelamation, the
President has exereised the diseretien vested in him by
the statute. He could not fail to reeogmise that the
primary purpese ef this statute is to keep this ceuntry
out of war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take inte
account all the pertiment conditions and oiroumstanees.
Incidentally, I may stress the faot, in view of what is
above stated, that a proolanetien would have plaeed an
embarge on the shipment of the material mentioned net
only to Japan but to China.
The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does not autherize
the President or the Seeretary of state under any eir-
cumstanees te prohibit the export of commodities other
than arms, ammunition, and implements of war. The
artieles and mterials mhieh are considered to be arms,
ammunitien, and implements of war are emumerated in the
President's Proelamation of May 1, 1937, whieh 1s set
ferth under Part II of the enalesed eopy of the pamphlet
Iaternatlenal Iraffle in Arne. It will be noted that
serap iren, eil, and similar preduets are not imeluded in
sueh enumeratien. There is no statute mew in existenee
whieh would autherise the President or the seeretary ef
si21e.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.91)
state to prehibst the expert ef serep iren, ell, er
similar preduets to Japan er to any ether foreigm
country.
You may be interested to knew that simee July 1,
1989, the Bepartment of state has 1ssued lieenses fer the
expert of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to caime
1n the value ef $14,389,902.30 and to Javan 1n the valve ef
$10,793,865.38.
I may add, with reference to the bombing of eivillan
pepulations and the prebable danger to Americans and
Ameriean interests abread, that the Seeretary of state
has stated publiely en repeated oscasions that this
Gevernment condemns the bembing of civilian pepulations
or its material encouragement. The Government's con-
demmatien of this practice has been expressed direetly
te all manufaeturers and exporters in this country of
airplanes and aerenautieal equipment.
sineerely yours,
For the Asting Secretary of state:
DEC 8 1938:
Charles W. Yest, Aeting Chief
DE0  1938.P
Offiee of Arms and Mumitiens Contrel
Enclosures:
1. Gaby ef Joint Mmselution,
y2,1089.
A tre copy g
5
the signed
aal.
GAIRVE-VTBIC
1206-86
FE
neu

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.91)
American Secresary
FRIENDs
Ma. Sta R. Mc
Chinass Secvetary
Ma. Davim Toone
Membership Commiiess
 C. 
(HINP
Chairman, Mas. B. M. Cowm
Vice-Presidons
Program Commies
2nd Vice-Presidens
Danvs P. Myas
DEC
1938
(Sakman, Miss Eanon H. Krn
Hospisalisy Committes
Bv. Wia R. L
3nd Vice-Presidens
Mas. Faick A. CLKVELAND
FRIENDS OF CHINA,
Publicity Commisses
Mas. WILLIAm E. CnY
Treasurev
Mn. ELn O. CAEn
(SINO-AMERICAN SOCIETY)
Auditor
Ma. FAeemAn O. EMBaboN
CABLE ADDRESS:SINOAM
November 25, 1938
Division of
FASTERN AFFAIRS
dear Mr. President:
At the last meeting of the Friends of
China, a Boston society of American citizens, the
enclosed resolution in favor of a more positive
policy by the United States Government in the Far
J
East was unanimously adopted. I was instructed
as President of the Society to transmit this
resolution to you with the assurance that it
expresses the barest minimum of our convictions
890.
in the matter.
894.24/518
The Friends of China, incorporated as
a society five years ago, embraces in its membership
persons who, for many reasons, know China and are
familiar with the Far East problems. The expression
of their view as to the course which governmental
policies should take is, therefore, a reasoned one,
as well as one typical of the sympathies of the
American people.
I have the honor to remain
Most respectfully yours,
Parence D Beacley
Clarence C. Beasley
President
Hon. Franklin D. Roosevelt
President of the United States
The White House
Washington, D. C.
A D V I S O R Y
C O M M I T T E E
F/FG
Sin Hart Ames
Da. D. Bawen Eddy
Paesident Daniel L. MaRm
Rzv. Raymond CAlkiNs
Mise J. Donoty Gondon
Rzv. Gmonge L. Pain
Mas. Raymond Calking
Pro. Alat Bun Hart
P. H S Ros
Mas. WilLiam E. Cheneny
Pao. A N. Hoo
Judg Emma Fal Smo
Rev. Gzongz L. Davis
PRo. MANLzy O. HUdeOn
Proe. CLaim E. Tuan
Pnop. J. Anton DzHaas
Ma. Hansy Heabest Kay
Paos. Nobert Wi
Da. WiLramD R. Wilson

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
RESOLUTION ADOPTED AT THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
FRIENDS OF CHINA, INC., BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS
October 21, 1938
WHEREAS, the United States of America and many other nations
have indicted Japan as the violator of the Nine-Power Treaty
and the Kellogg Pact, in the present Sino-Japanese confliot,
fomented by the Military Party of Japan, and have repeatedly
protested against the bombings of undefended Chinese cities
and the unnecessary slaughter of Chinese non-combatants, and
WHEREAS, we feel put to shame that American raw materials
are being used to manufacture weapons of war for Japan,
American planes are being used to carry American-made bombs
for the destruction of Chinese civilian population, American
shells are loading Japanese guns, and America is supplying
to Japan huge quantities of scrap-iron, oil, trucks and other
materials used in the furtherance of the war, over and above
the amounts of our normal trade of recent years, and
WHEREAS, we sympathize with the Chinese people in their desire
to build up an independent, democratio state, an end gravely
threatened by the present aggression of Japan, and deplore
the trafric which makes it possible for certain American
interests to profit from the wanton destruction of the innocent
victims of Japanese aggression,
THEREFORE, we, the members of the Friends of China, Inc.,
respectfully petition the President of the United States, in
accordance with the principle of his Good Neighbor enunciation,
and in the interest of the people of the United States, China
and Japan, to take every practicable means, direct or indirect,
to bring to an end a trafric from our country which is
compelling us to be a partner in the destruction of the Chinese
people.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.92)
Becember 8 1958.
My Goar Mr. Beasley:
Iy reference frem the whise Nouse I eeknewledge
the reeeipt ef your letter of Nevember 2s, l9ss in
regard te the situatien mow ebtaining in the Far East.
Your attention 1s invited to sestien 1 (a) of the
894.
Jeiat Reselutien of May 1, 1937, commenly referred to
as the Noutrality Aet, a cepy of waieh is enelesed,
whieh provides that whemever the President shall find
that there existe a state of wmr between er ameng twe
18
er mere foreign states he shall proelaim such fast.
Should the President issue a preclamatien finding that
a state ef war exists between China and Japan, the ex-
pert frem this ceuntry of arms, ammunitien, and imple-
ments of war te beth China and Japen would be immediately
prehibited. In the abeence of sueh a preelamation, there
1s me statutory autherity fer preventing sueh experts.
Mr. Clarease C. Beealey.
President, Priends ef Gmina, Inecrperated,
sne mamtington Avemse,
F/FG
Bostos, Nassaehmsetts.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
In determining net to isswe a preelamatien, the
President has exerelsed the diseretion vested in him by
the statute. He could not fail to resegaise that the
primary purpese ef this statute 1s to keep this country
out of war, and be, of eourse, folt obliged to take late
ascount all she pertiment conditions and eiroumstanses.
Incidentally, I may stress the faet, in view of what is
abeve stated, that a preelamtion would have plased an
embarge on the shipment of the material mentloned net
only to Japan but to China.
The Noutrality Aot, moreover, does not autherise
the President or the Seoretary of State under any eir-
eumstanoes to prohibit the export of commodities other
thes arms, ammunition, and implements of war. The
artiekes and maturials which are considered to be arms,
ammunitien, and implements of war are enumerated in the
President's Proelamation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set
forth under Part II of the enolosed ocopy of the pamphlet
Internatlenal Iraffin An Arne. It will be noted that serap
1rea, eil, and similar produsts are net imoluded in sweh
eaumeration. There 1s mo statute now in existenee which
would autherise the President er the Seoretary ef state te
prehibit the expert of sorap iron, eil, or similar preduets

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.88)
-L
to Japan er to any ether foreign country.
Yeu may be interested to kmew that simee July 1,
1937, the Department of state has 1ssued l1eenses for
the expert of ares, ammunitien, and implements of wer te
Chine 1n the value of $14,868,902.30 and to Japan 1a the
value ef $10,793,865.38.
I may add,with referenee to the bembing of eivillan
pepulations and the probable danger to Americans and
American interests abread, that the seeretary of state
has stated publiely on repeated oceasions that this
Government condemns the bombing of eivilian populations
or its material encouragement. The Government's con-
demnation of this prastioe has been expressed direetly to
all manufaeturers and exporters in this eceuntry ef airplanes
and aeronautical equipment.
sineerely yours,
For the Acting Secretary of state:
BEC 8 1938.
Charles W. Yost, Aeting Chief
DEO 8 1958.PM
Offiee of Arms and Munitiens Contrel
Enelosures:
1. Cepy of Joint Resolution,
Q
May 1, 1987.
2. Pamphiet - Internatiomal
Traffie in Arms.
A
r
nal
ant
A
FE
10.6080
Bews

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
GREENVILLE COLLEGE
ONG, Ph.D.
"CHRISTIAN CUR
EDUCATION
GREYDONM. WORBOIS. A. M
Pregident
A. B. HARPORD, A. B.
ARRY V.
LL.B.
03
GREENVILLE, ILLINOIS
1033 DEC
DEPART
November 26, 1938
 R
vecember 6 1958.
Hon. Cordell Hull
Secrctary of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sccretary Hull:
We are onclcsing herewith a copy of
a resolution formulated a'd adopted by
894.24
the Studert Assoclation of Greenville
Collegc, Greenville, Illinois, on November
894.24/519
4, 1938, regarding American rarticipation
in the Sino-Japanese War. The resolution
is not the result of impassioned oratory
or atrocity advertisemert. Father, we
attempted to present the facts of the
situation as cooll" andfairly as rossible
to the studert body. Action was ther de-
ferred a full week to allow frr any re-
action ofsentiment. This resolutior was
overwhelmirgly arrroved at that tine.
We trust that in your rosition of
responsibility you will use your ir  luence
to bring aboit a speedy end to the present.
conflict and especially to Anerican par-
ticipation in it.
Ver, respectfully yours,
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Student Association of
DEC5-1938
Creenvil.e College
Pres. phin H. Sollasser.
Department of Sate
Sec.
Graurce
Indunes
F/rG

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.96)
GREENVILLE COLLEGE
H. J. LONG, Ph.D
CHRISTIAN CTUR
EDUCATION
President
A. E. HARFORD, A. B.
R. A.B., B.IA., LL.B.
Assistent to the Presiden:
GREENVILLE, ILLINOIS
DEC 2 B1938
November 4,1038
WHEREAS :
For more than a year both the assembly of the League of
Nations and the department of state of the United States
have recognizcd the Japanese invasion of China as unwarranted
aggression in violation of the Nine Power trenty of February
1927, and the Kellog-Briand pact of August ?7, 19?8, and
WHEREAS :
Japan has given every indication of continuing her policy
of rutrless destruction of life and property in her conquest
of hina, and
WHEREAS :
Although a large majority of the citinens of the United
States are in sympathy with China, yet the nited tetes has
been and continu s to be the chief source of those materias
of wer without which Japan's invasion would be imrossible.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that we, the student asso cetion
and Faculty of Greenville College go on record as deploring
the American policy which makes it possible for certein
American interests to profit from the suffering of the victims
of Ja anese aggreaslon, and
BE IT ALSO RESOLVED, that we call upon the government of the
United States to take all necessary measures to halt or
limit to reace-time froportions the export to Japan of the
materiais of war, including muritons, oil, gasoline, chemicals,
pig and scrap iron, airplanes and airplane parts andautomobiles
and automobile accessories, and,
BE IT ALSO RESOLVED, that copies of this resolition be trans-
mitted to the President, the secretary o? state, the chairmen
of the serato and house committees on foreign relations, the
senators and congressmen from Illinois, and to the press, and
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that we urge sister schools tc take
similar action protesting against American participation in
Japanese aggression.
tndur
raclce
trden't Assar.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.86)
The reseipt is aeknowledged of your letter of Neves-
ber 2s, less, ene losing a reselutien ia regare to the Far
Mastera situstiom which was adopted by your Association
on November 4, 195e.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resslution of Congress approved May 1, l9s9, eommonly re-
fesred to as the Noutrality Act. It will bo obeerved that
Sectiom 1 (a) of this Joint Resolutiom prevides thet, whem-
ever the President shall find that there exists a state of
war between or among two or mere foreigm states, he shall
proelaim such faet. Should the President issue a proeiema-
tiem finding that a state of war exists between Ghime aad
Japan, the expert  this coustry of arms, uaition,
nd inplonte es a te beth Chias and Japen wouid te
immediateky prekibited. In the abecnce ef sueh a proelam-
tien, there so so stetatery authority for preventing such
1.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.90)
deat has essreisel the diseretion vested in hin by the
otatete. Lo cosle not fail to roguise that the petg
and be, of ceurse, felt obliged to take iato ascount all
the pertinent conditions and cirounstaness. Iusidentelly,
I may atress the faet, in view of what is above stated,
that pproelamation would have plaeed an embargo on the
shipmsnt of the material mentioned not only to Japan but
so cnina.
The Zeutrality Aet, moreover, does not authorise the
Presidemt or the Seeretary of State under any eiroumstenees
to prohibit the export of commodities other then arms, a-
mmmition, and implements of war. The articles and materials
whiek are considered to be arms, ammanition, and implements
of war are emumerated in the President's Proelematiom of
May 1, 1959, which is set forth under Part II of the en-
elesed copy of the pemphlet Latermatiensl Traffle la Amm.
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1,
l9s7, the Departmeat of stete has issued lieenses for the
expert of arms, ammnition, and iaplements of war to Chine

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
in the value of $14,806,002.30 and to Japan in the value
of $10,795,865.38.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Aoting Secretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Acting Chief,
Office of Arms and Munitions Control.
Knolosures:
Joint Resolution
Pamphlet
QR
11
DEC 6 1938
DEC 01938.P
CA:RVH:HJG
12-5-38
FE
eew

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
Miller Park Presbyterian Church
CLAYTON S. VALDER. Minister
1938
Telephone, Residence KE Nwood 5609
30TH AND HUNTINGTON AVENUE
Omaha, Nebraska
November 29, 1938
The Hon. Franklin D. Roosvelt,
President of the United States,
The White House,
Washington, D. .
894.24
Dear Mr. fresident:
Last night a group of one hundred and
twenty five men, representing six North Omaha
churohes, met at the Miller Fark Church and
894.24/520
unanimously voted their approval of the enclosed
resolution and asked me, as their ohairman, to
forward the same to you.
Respectfully yours,
Uaytou S. Valder
nivie
IAR LAST:
DECI
w
F/FG

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
PETITION
TC THE PRESIDENT OF THE UN ITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE CONGRESS
WHhEAS, the people of the United States desire peace and deplore
international lawlessness and aggression, and
HEREAS, the Japanese invasion of China, fomented by the military party
of Japan, has led the United States of America and many other nat ions
to indict Japan as a violator of the Nine-Power Treaty and the Kelloge
pact, and to protest repeatedly against the merciless bombing of
undefended Chinese cities, the unnecessary slaughter of Chinese
civilians, and the destruotion and imperilment of schools, churches,
nosi itals, and business enterprises in which their nationals are
engaged, and
HHEREAS, we feel put to sname that American raw materials are being
used to manufacture weapons of war in Japan, that American planes are
being used to carry bombs fron America for the destruction of Chinese
civilian populations, that shells from America are loading Japanese
guns, and that America is supplying to Japan huge quantities of
scrap iron, oil, trucks, and other materials used in the furtherance
of the war, over and above the amount of our normal trade in recent
years, and
NHrkEAs, we sympathize with the Chinese people in their desire to
build up an independent, democratic state, an end gravely threatened by
the present aggression of Japan, and deplore the traffic which makes
it lossibla for certain American interests to profit from the wanton
dest ruction of the innocent victims of Japanese aggression,
PHEREFORD, we the undersigned respectfully retition the President
of the United Statos and Congress, in accordance with the principl
of the Good Neighbor and in the interests of the people of the
United States, China and Japan, to take every practicable means,
direct or indirect, to brin; to an end a traffic from our country
vhich is compellin us to be a partner in tho destruction of the
Chineso peoplo.
WaytoiI Valder
Signed
chhirman
In behalf of one hundred and twenty-
five men, representing six North Omaha
Nubraska churches, who unanimously voted
their approval of the abovo petition.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.94)
necember 10 1958
Ia ragly refer a
My dear Mr. Valder:
By referenoe from the White House I aeknowledge the
reseipt of your letter of November 29, 1938 enolosing a
resolution in regard to the Far Eastern situation which
894.24/520
was adopted unanimously by a group of 125 men represent-
ing six Nerth Omaha churohes at a meeting held in your
ehureh on November 28.
Your eourtesy in transmitting this resolution to
the President is greatly appreolated and you may be as-
sured that appropriate attention will be given to it.
1
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Reselutiom of Congress approved May 1, 1937, commonly
referred to as the Noutrality Aet. It will be observed
that Seetion 1(a) of this Joint Resolution provides that
whemever the President shall find that there exists a
state
The Reverend
Glayton S. Valder,
Miller Park Presbyterian Chureh,
30th and Nuntington Avemue,
Omaha, Nebraska.
F/FG

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
state of war between or among twe er more foreigm states
he shall proelaim such fact. Should the President issue
a proelamation finding that a state of war exists betweem
China amd Japan, the export frem this country of arms,
ammmitien, and implements of war to both China and Japan
would be immediately prohibited. In the absence of suph
a proelamatiom, there is mo statutory authority for pre-
veating sueh exports.
In determiming mot to issue a proolamation, the Pres1-
dest has exereised the diseretion vested in him by the
statute. Ne could not fail to recognize that the primary
purpose of this statute is to keep this oountry out of war,
and be, of course, felt obliged to take into account all
the pertinent conditions and ciroumstances. Incidentally,
I may stress the fact, in view of what is above stated,
that a proelamation would have placed an embargo on the
shipment of the material mentioned not only to Japan but
to Ohina.
The Beutrality Act, moreover, does not authorize
the President or the Seeretary of state under any cir-
eumstanees to prohibit the export of commodities other
tham arms, ammumition, and implements of war. The
artieles and materials mhich are considered to be arms,
ammmitien, and implements of war are emmerated in the
Presidont's

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.95)
President's Proelamatien of May 1, 1937, mhich 1s set
forth under Part II of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet
Intoresttonal Traffte ta Arme.
You may be interested to kmow that sinee July 1,
1937, the Department of State has issued lieemses for
the export of arms, ammunities, and implements of mar
to China in the value of $14, 367,902. 30 and to Japam
1a the value of $10,793,865.38.
I may add with referenee to the bombing of eivillan
populations and the probable danger to Amerieans and
Amerieam interests abroad, the Seeretary of State has
stated publiely on repeated occasions that this Govern-
ment condemns the bombing of civilian populations or its
material eneouragement. The Government's condemnation of
this praetice has beem expressed direetly to all mamufae-
tarers and exporters in this country of airplanes and
aeronautieal equipment.
Sineerely yours,
For the Asting Beeretary of State:
CR
DEC 10 1958
Charles W. Yost, Aeting Chief
Offiee of Aras and Munitians Centrol
Eselesures:
Ou
1. Jeint Resolutien.
2. Pamphlet.
A trug copy of
the eper rigt
5
CA:RVH:MCM:SS
FE
nal.
12/9

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.96)
SH
BOARD OF CHRISTIAN EDUCATION
OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
HAROLD MCA. ROBINSON, GENERAL SECRETARY
V. T. RAYMOND ALLSTON. D. D.
212 PATTERSON BUILDING
CNRISTIAN EDUCATION
OMaHA, NeBRaskA
SYNODS
COLORADO AND NEBRASKA
20 193
vin
December 7, 1938
Honorable Franklin D. Roosevelt
Division or
President of the United States
ANAIN
894.24
Washington, D. C.
1EC1:38
Dear Mr. President:
RVH MaiD
m
The fact that the American people, through present trade practices,
are contributing so largely to the Japanese aggressive campaign
in China 1s a matter of deep concern and humiliation to many
American citizens.
894.2
to stop that ruthless war, I wrote to the Secretary of State,
Honorable Cordell Hull, and asked for advice as to what an individ-
ual citizen or groups of citizens might do to stop America's indirect
participation in this war. Mr. Hull, through his secretary, was very
gracious in writing me at length and setting forth the facts of the
4/
case. The import of his letter leads me to believe that the present
legislation under which our government must act places us in the em-
5
barrassing position of being unable to name an aggressor in foreign
conflict and apply an embargo on such a nation without also denying
3
the nation being attacked access to necessities for self-defense.
Furthermore, it was made clear that under present legislation "ship-
ments of arms, ammunitions, and implements of war can be prohibited,
but not materials used for such." Under these circumstances, it is
obvious that the United States is being placed in a position before
the world which our people at heart repudiate.
I respectfully request that you put forth every effort to change this
deplorable situation through legislation which would give to you, as
President, and to Congress discretionary power in dealing with bellig-
erent and aggressive nations. Such legislation should make it possible
for you and Congress to prohibit not only the shipment of implements of
war, but also all war materials to an aggressor nation.
It is heartening to know that our government has openly and courageously
declared Japan to be an aggressor nation. Your own declaration of pur-
pose in quarantining outlaw nations is expressive of the thought and
feeling of the American people with regard to the matter, and points
the way to the course of action which we, in the interest of truth,
justice, and democracy, should take. If existing legislative measures
stand in our way, by all means, directly and indirectly, let us remove
those hindrances.
Very-sincerely yours
5. baypuond Wllotm
Field Representative for
TRA:KS
Christian Education

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.93)
secemper 20 1955.
My dear Dr. Alleton:
The receipt 1s meknowledged of your letter of
December 7, loss with further regard to the situation
now obtaining im the Far East. By reference from the
894.24/521
white House I also aoknowledge the receipt of your
letter of the same date in regard to the same matter.
Your observations with respect to the amendment
of the Neutrality Aet have been noted and you may be
assured that they will be given the most eareful een-
sideration.
Sineerely yours,
For the Acting Seeretary of State:
DEC 19 1938.
DMO 19 1938. PM
Charles w. Yost, Assistant Chief
Office of Arms amd Mumitions Control
The Reverend
T. Raymond Allston, D.D.,
Field Represeatative for Christian Edueation,
Beard of Christian Rdueation of the
Presbyterian Church in the W.S.A..
212 Patterson Building,
A true cogy of
Omaka, Roboasks.
the sigiy d origi-
F/FG
na!
CW3
cou

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
13namher 19 1958.
THE CROWELL PUBLISHING COMPANY
250 PARK AVENUE
TE
NEW YORK
WOMAN'S HOME COMPANION
THE AMERICAN MAGAZINE
1938 DEC !A AM 9 50
COLLIER'S. THE NATIONAL WEEKLY
THE COUNTRY HOME MAGAZINE
ADVERTISING DEPARTMENT
OFFICES: NEW YORK
PLEASE ADDRESS REPLY TO
BOSTON、CHICAGO
SAN FRANCISCO
December 12, 1938
ARHIAQO.ILDS
DETROIT
894.24/522
244.24
Pivision of
12/16
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
KVH. NaiD
Honorable Cordell Hull
DEC101938
Seoretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Department of Steta
Dear Sir:
Attached are oopies of letters I have sent our Senators.
Mr. Judd spoke very nioely of your attitude on noutrality.
I wanted you to know that the attaobed letter had been
sent by me to these gentlemen.
It may interest you to know that over 300 women and 450
men heard Mr. Judd in Evanston. This letter expresses my
views, and I am sure those of the entire audience.
Respectfully yours,
F/A
625 Emerson Street
Evanston, Illinois
Y

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
December 12, 1938
Senator Soott Luoas
Havana
Illinois
Dear Sir:
When I realise that our country is keeping the Japanese army in the
field, by furnishing 54.2% of their wmr material, sueh as serap iron
and high-test pasoline, to say nothing of the lesser useful items,
I wonder what all this noutrality we hear about is worth. Are we not
being kidded by the higher-ups in ashington?
I. as one of four hundred men listening to ralter Judd last week, was
stummed. He told us that the only trucks and cars he saw in China
were Dodges, General Motars Truaks, Chevrolets and Fords. You know
motor travel as against troops on foot, as are the Chinese, is fatal.
I am convineed that if we let Japan win this war, it will be only a
matter of a few years until we will have to defend our country against
Japam, that we are at this time feeding them so they can better bite
us.
As our eleeted sponser, will you use your good offioes when you again
comvese to make it your business to have our noutrality law changed?
In essence, let us not give any help to am aggressor, no matter who
it may be. Tateh for sueh verbage in the new law as eash and carry.
then the aggressor is on the same footing as the one bedng attacked.
I am very anxious to get your point of view on this mtter.
Respeetfully yours.
625 Emereen Street
Bveneton, Illineis

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
December 12, 1938
Semator Jemee Hamilton Lewis
105 Nest Ademe Street
Chieago, Illimois
Dear Sir:
When I realise that our country is keeping the Japanese army in the
field, by furnishing 54.2% of their wmar mterial, suoh as serap iron
and high-test gasoline, to say nothing of the lesser useful items.
I wonder what all this moutrality we bear about is worth. Are we not
being kidded by the higher-ups in iashington?
I, as ome of four hamdred men listening to Walter Judd last week, was
stummed. He told us that the only trueks and cars he saw in Chine
were Dodges, Gemeral Motors Trueks, Chevrolets and Fords. You know
moter trevel as against treops on foot, as are the Chinese, is fatal.
I am eenvinoed that if we let Japan win this war, it will be only a
matter of a fow years wmtil we will have to defend our country against
Japem, that we are at this time feeding them so they can better bite
us.
As our eleeted spensor, will you use your good offloes when you again
conveme to make it your business to have our neutrality law ahanged?
In essenee, let us not give any help to an aggressor, no matter who
it may be. Nateh for sueh verbage in the new law as cash and carry.
then the aggresser is om the same footing as the one being attacked.
I  very anxious to get your point of view on this matter.
Respeetfully yours.
625 Eeereom Street
Evansten, Illineis

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.93)
secember 19 1958.
My dear Mr. Johmson:
The reeeipt is aeknowledged of your letter of
December 12, 1938 emclosing copies of two letters in
regard to the amendment of the Neutrality Act.
894.24/522
I appreciate your courtesy in furnishing the
Department with thesn copies of your letters.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
OR
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
BEC 17 1938.Pm
DBO 19 1938. PM
Mr. A. C. Johnson,
S25 Emerson Street,
Evanstom, Illinois.
the
1.121-
Q
na
Pnd
F/FG
り
12/16
FF
CA: RVH: MaoD: BS
reews

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.90)
Ano. Dee 14
P L 
THE FEDERAL COUNCIL
DEC 17 1938
CHURCHES
CHRIST IN AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL SECRETARY
297 FOURTH AVENUE
STAT
NEW YORK
Asslstant Secl-tary
NOV 29 1938
930
MR. HORNBECK
(1
DEC9-1938
DVISION
SAY
14/35
25
Rangoon,
894-24
a
these firms.
5
2
3
a
an
Sanmel Wherea Laver
Honerable Franele B. Jare
State Department
Washingtin, D. C.
SMC AS
D.I

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.95)
December 14, 1938.
Bear Gavert:
I have your letter of November 2s in regard to the
mmtter of preventing the shipment of rew materials of
894.24/523
war frem this country to Japan.
As I as sure yeu fully appreciate, I am whole-
heartedly in faver of any preetieable and appropriate
seuree er cearess thet may be puroued toverd making
offeetive the Amerieen people's desire for pease and
teware implementing this Government's policies pursuest
therete, either in the field of removing causes which
threatem to disturb peaseful relations among states and
peeples ef in the field of ways and means te restore
pease in areee of ecnfliet.
Rewever,
Samuel MeGrea Gavert, D.D.,
F/A
Now York, Now York.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
However, with regard specifioally to the subject
of Van Dusen's forthooming artiele in the Christimn
Iamimrx, I believe that you will understand my position
when I sey that I do not wish to offer comment on the
advisability of the measures Van Dusen contemplates
anggesting.
I do feel that measures suoh as you desoribe srould
be given careful thought from the standpoint of their
possible remote as well as of their possible imediate
effeets and after due consideration of the broad interests
of the American people. While I do not wish to give adviee
to the Federal Counoil, I would suggest that it be guided
by the foregoing considerations in its examination of the
problem before it.
with kind personal regards, I am
Sineerely yours,
appm
RE
FB:VOV:HES:REK
12/6/88
m.m.n.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
STATE
DEC141938
DIVISION OF
November 29, 1938
14 1938.
Division of
Franklin D. Roosevelt
The White House
Washington, D. C.
Department of s
My dear Mr. President:
894.24/524
met in New Town Park Sunday, November 27 at 3 P. L. under
the auspices of the San Diego Branch of the Women's Inter-
national League for Peace and Freedom end the San Diego
894.24
Peace Committee to protest the shinment of scrap iron
to Japan. This meeting was all the more effective because
of its nearness to the 5000 tons of scran iron destined
for Janan.
During the meeting Dr. Lewis 3. Lesley of San
Diego State College moved thet a communication be sent
to you, the P: esident of these United States asking that
the present Teutrelity Legislation of the Congress of the
United States of rerice be rut into effect at once, and
that scran iron be placed on ihe banned list as soon as
possible. is motion met with the unanimous anproval of
446
the group present.
482
492
Dr. Lesle: ard ther sneakers drew attention to
the fact thet now thet China had been cut off from receiving
sunnlies the Heutrality Act could be applied to the
advantage of China.
I'r. President, ve have sent to the State
Denartment at various times some 3000 sign: tures to
enclosed petition. We earnestly invite your reconsideration
of this wole matter and refer you to our former corres-
pondence CA394.24/466 Ches. . Yost. A cony of this letter
and looo signatures to the pro est as been sent to the
Statc Denartment.
Respectfully yours,
Kati H. Wewing
(Irs.) Yate H. Dewing for the W. I. I. P. F.
and the San Diego P. C.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
secemper 14 1958.
In reply refer to
CA 894.24
My dear Mrs. Dewing:
By referenee from the white House,I aoknowedge the
the reeeipt of your letter of November 19, l938 enolosing
a copy of a letter of the same date whioh you addressed
894.24/524
to the Department, regarding the situation now obtaining
in the Far East.
By referenoe from the white House, I also acknowledge
the receipt of your letter of November 29, 1938 enolosing
additional signatures to a petition against the export of
sorap 1ron and war material to Japan.
Your courtesy in transmitting these additional
signatures is appreoiated. with regard to the export of
war and other materials to Japan, your attention 1s
1nvited to the Department's letter of November 10, 1938
to
F/A
Mrs. Kate H. Dewing,
3546 First Avenue,
san Diego, California.
7.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.88)
-2-
to Dr. W. J. Sherman and to 1ts letter of Deoember 5
to you.
sinoerely yours,
For the Aoting Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Aoting Chief
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
0
Part
5
A true opy
CA:RVH:GAL: SS
12/7
FE
the siorigi=
new
nal.
CR
DEC 1 1

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.75)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
@fex M Mefen iir
1632 miahinly ave Hat city
T
0.3
Soycin/ Cipsiliy
Vicgite Gi itiur
1711
cd
17-  
Frark Fia
S eave rotats
Hl orln Woinanden
2.12 Taht ani Math
1222
. Jarrell
1734 ctinldave.
azeet
MarcialRomo
73e Dus witayltre Dinte, Cit.
Iilley Hegreto
1729 H deneg ar 1. C
002812
Srigoria Mashie
16 27 -   la nd Cint lational otg
John T Ba f
143/ Hrover ave N. C Caly
Hilasio Yd
M
1720 Handing 2at(
atricio Vargad
2008 Taftade ilat city
owSteaven.
2634 Emmiia(SSans.
Jerman chhacorl
223).Hrover ave at
Dallino Soriillo
1934911l4ha014
Toee acnte
1711. wilsm are Nat city.
 Auncel B. lysas
1804 Wcbinky ave Hot city,
Gamilio Cnmemng
1t i Avilorm ave gpat altt
Bd eions to THE PEACE COMMTTEE,  First Avenue. San Diego, Caliornia. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-
1 4mameo on otther pede

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.73)
Reongo Fedesmas
197s Neu0ton son 
Guadalugs Vorgas 2022 Taft ave Outs City
1712
Y. z
W. seson avi 1839
Artro Ma tirey
2021. ordingae no.
Rude
Ganl I lcrrier 1240 Cdede
aun
Seury  Munia
721. 20- 9th 2t 1
Pasc i
to Mt ty
Juan Raonu

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.78)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
Joreshee Fry
1725 V2mion Santugo
2517-Oceatrt OceanBh
Ths Many A. Ost mane
n482 ddlane fr
San Drigd
Ma. A' A, X tue keny
2531 0. at-
X531 FST
a.luey
Learlie Kobinson
2214.2Voward
4
3848-5 eve i
leberf F Franklun
Ellen fucinen
2509-Madison
21419 uebatrons M. tan Dig
Johen donbennne?
Seror geon Carly
Flony Clon
ZFae Bowman
3961-gih ave.68.D.
Soarrsse Iraesagher
645-A Sr S.D
645 a St. San drego.
Ma Van Naa
Qmita Smoale
645 A St San Diigo.
MildudS tsort
645A So. San Ded
(4s F1 St Sanlig
Laura Ayette
645 rh ir sen vlcego.
Glin S,Tahen
4626 Edgeurare an Eigo-
645 A.Sf. Saw Diego.
Qileen Winchel
alde Pery
64r a At
(4s Lt It San kleego
lun B Doad
P.Phiss Soatan
6+5
Saniig
Hinfed Reck
645 a St San cliego
Pata
crs A ant sa Digo
3540 Mther Br Saw Dhigo
Dananica Leeddis
 I THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego, California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
26
Denniene mc Cullach 627 J St. San Diego, Col.
Lellion E Mueler-
2907 Spruce San Deegs pal.
H455 Mr pegy so inoy.
eeeo Rust
Emma I Shellumbrge
1782 Wetus 8r San Neigs, auf
Mra Nellis Robrinion 7214/owor g Sh Son hiego

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.75)
as Oapes Me Cotlm 3560-fronit San Ding
1725mim8m
Poreshee Fry
482 landfr
Thy tMary A.tianm
San Drig
2531 6. lt.
Ms. A. A, tue kyy
2531 FST
a. Istuexcay
2219Haward
Pearlie Kobineon
4
3848-54 liveSaw Pieg
leberf FFrankli
2509-Madison
Ellen fncinc..
21419 uebaton M. San Dg
plen donbenne?
Serar grour Caby
Flomy Clon
3961- gh ave.68.D
7ae Bouman
645-A Sr S.D.
Soarrss Iaesagher
645 I St. San drego.
Ma Van Naxa
645 A t San Ding.
Qmita SNorls
MildudS trort
645A S. San De
(ts F1 St. San liige
Laura Ayette
645rh it san vliego.
4616 Edgeurare an Llrigo-
alin S, Tahen
645 A.Sf. Saw Diego.
Aileen Winchel
64v a At
aldo Persp
(45  SF
Sankleego
Gun b oad
645 0
.hi tan
645 a St San cliegs
Hinfred Reck
15 A aut sau trigo
Pataicl
3540 M+Viewr Br Saw Dhigo
Veronica Leevis
25
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego, California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
Iennione mc Gulloch 1627 I St. San Diego, Cal.
2907 Spruce San Deego pal.
Lellion E Meller
4455 Me en o i
egeo Rust
1782 Letus or San Nego, Caf
EmmaShllumberge
Wira h r an 2t laut h sanhiigo
Xenneca dihenson 2
2411 Hou nie ith
Dellie 1ranatio
2461
aan sego
Menix onvincy
so 3o Jy utle
dam lobinaon,u
2918 El Cajon Bux saw hthiags

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.80)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
Pohert Emmed
3766-46 10
fom Diego Cal.
9582 RancrstSonBeg
Uh M Béacre
Lai Framond
47?tlreget aw alegd
Goy 
474yon
41
Giaue Phant
24 70 t he,
11
Henry 
2536-i 1
Mraee
2631 Hmand
Ma Sui trut
4176 7lorila
11
Allen Berg
3236 Belle ble Or.
41
.E.AE
2640 Calmmlia .
4.
GerDalaa
220
Idamae teurrere
152s Robencor Auc
00
Harold X Adams
3561 figth ave.
11
Narold F. Hobba
917 A livenme
leoromade, Cal
Dan Oeego, Calif.
Seury a. Moria
1228239
Eall Leason
4452 Texas 8×
Drank Kevin
1508 Blaing lve
San Drego, Cülf
rauess ly. Bamss
3005-4th stagch
FrankBary
356 6th t.
eutedrer
4174 48
n
For Fuidley
332 Fshut
“”
Danha
2133/LS0
，
E.E. Duncash
4074 Kang02 St.
Jeo.c. roren
Smparal Bcach Cakf.
Chas d. feeln
4752-Lolu St Dod sah
Geo.  hod
1714 Male sh. tanheig
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego. Caliornia. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-
26
MabuerF, Srfeed - 2516 a St- Sam Deess

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.77)
●
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
City
Name
Address
aberRettoll
3455-Kausas Oi
Qlca 7bllam 86 36 ① wt bauSeyoad
3604-30tto, Aqu 0deg36
Mauy Mc dlintoch
824 lutter18. Leu Deeg s
Jotiolake
2384 R4laa dau
 Uailnmasrgetty 1324  lgemon Snadeg0.
sos Beare The yen 16,16 1urst S18e, D0g
Mos Gatille Savalkke - 41 on Juslor N.th San song
Tom Ssel
1064 811 dor 
Brace Pacper
3305.rupad
HololSahdfonsi
Dan Lisho
Margedi. Buine
Sen Dieds
slayp E. Bouman 2555 Willor
Elady Sindhont
950 - 9 td Ave. Sag tilro
Dorothy baeutt
815- Bcun t. Sen asgo
cimest R.
ASuch
411 Kyt. huDeggs
Eleanr R.Lovill
3709 Sergia
SnDin
Glame Deaeon
815
Bdith Ecaya
Embausy Houl
Jeannette Morgan
3757-sth ane.
hiso Rove 
2230 albalions
San Peesh
Helus g: Beak 1804 Neale

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.76)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
516, Biseon
Balmice San Deigbe
2963
3030
an DiGoacd
W.J. Neary
13/
Sanlluesg@oad
Payl John la"
rld insegEua
Dord Balch
824a hoevr/t Ntiona (CityCal
Gliu Lane
222 Bday n,ef
Heury melo Wiiler
Edugd pley   27+ D a full
badrewnd
3.21 -10 th. ve Syn Dligaggy
P-1r. Metei
10
Jawrmces.succh
10 70-3rdwe the the
tauil fEacer
3780- Qlaee 2a.hiy
Albent H olsem
1374- 32 3t  ga
xohn helmn
943 o Ue10
Aohu mPassar
521 a Street San Dirgolal
Idim Fulla
Sanoy Thealre bedg. SanDaro
Roy J. Wilhavth.
1161-5th Are, Sadle Diego, Cally
211-A- St fo-Dirgla
Macke Balaron
RS R Boldih
1069-2nd. Ln 10igi
4576 Monioiave ldn Digo
1023 2nt ane tandg
O Wglgh
575 Ot d Bi
1723-/58-8

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.77)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
May Lulii Brckrele
5952 El Baran Bhd.Calil
yp  Briepuadel
59 52 El Cbon l
Cal Carliple
4658-60ah 5p.5amDieg8
MasIra Rock
4638-60St 2 D.
Albert, 8cheel
4638-60 St. San iga
mro π .M aing
4600 -60 th St Sm Dredo Cali
mis Auma Jialas
205-- 18. D. San DigoEd
Miss LatirisSunigu
M
Lekrlh idde
21'2- ngiland cut lar HOiga
Georke Wrilleaurs
Elac Gaml tre Pae, Benl
9-19 th 80 8an Dueg
Grgehnn Ba dillo
Pulm Cly Bbi $y RdI.
EdgrinFrrirath
4i7 tovelud ave
911- >7 th,Sam Lugo.
patuck  folouuilr
R
Edward Soseph Yggsia,
961-H it a vr  iiga
Frac gledrit Bue e
968 -19th k.l. hiso
Githuy & Bay an
421 -E st San eidge
Gaank E Chapman
1917 nPico st 2as angles
615-8 ave 8a0eg0
1334 fn 8aing
1334
Giebet thefferd
2044-4aoentluge
Send petitions to THE PMACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego, California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.76)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
3.91-
d
H.C
208im
2191 1 dy  od
99 lalid ove s mon  srone
J  clly
W.ca
423
y Nrd
00
720-22
N.
E
LOE
San. Deigo
4666-315
42141a1×
KarlesSkisit
T te tlick
diarltle silk
3967 allatigzg san Wligo
Pearl Hom
4osi 7set l.
MsRol+E.2hee2 1268 2aet 
is Fleece,E 81ilsere 42 72 Faureot. Saego
Ttheresaicighges 3o33 Craadam n u
ito wslhuger
41/0 Walurl St.fNiyo
Bh ulltger
4110 Luabash ST Sán adio
Tumam Eh
4271-Janmant Ae San Digk
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego. California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
26

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.74)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
len San Diogo
Lerone C. Jrun
3990. Gnthe O4 San Dugo
BlandeL Pmilh
Mishelma mendicins
3813 Nebert EnNig8
Charles re dicins
815 4 h + 8an Nig
Son Deags.
Aayamand M. Ay ette
Phamp  Sap lo
45 Neuton ane San y
Hho
Roy  Thonoon
767-7 ave 5.. cali
Nom W ilkeson
210 - Plana st. SPlals
Hll s (t auySD. Cdeig
Ahae dndd
Manirthun
4111 - 44 th 1t. 1. D. Calid.
JAShirl
Mglody Timnry
18 
9394S n
Togdet eecsk
81-
Atyman Nortef
4125-39.8
ndhn-I u t
8424 
Oliay Haggna 
Tai Ehsetil hacher
323 E 2tryt Ctty . Cnl
Ryit Z wyrl
33
323 2 
651Bnma.Gt
@Buat
317
319 E T Sannrege Cp
JPhonn
Send petditions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego. California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.78)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
120 Tmirld  Sas. Besck, Galy.
Address
City
Roe Jugstixs
WGfore
3796 Park 32rd
Q0lanpf-4 1227 111
David Jealt
mis  Baithelette 301 E st.
m. ywee 3219H9rmon
eeBenle
3853-412
40826.
Baygrond B itsor
TNda Ray
1415-2nd a-c
3403 9reemam bt
FronkE Lo
1028-3rd ure
1028-3d,a2
illinI. den 3170 Hamthnme it
AudhurNoxe
17+3 2 aus
235-2064St.
go m Dgan H1 N-4M H 2a.T.10
Roland Nelson
414 80. 28 2t san igr
RosBBios
elcerencédepay telclie 1zzuws stsa
Bobast L.orct
mM.fin6
3152 Franada
James farmeo
1129l38
Prtyhoperce
146 
achiefViel
2871 Brant sl.
Send petitions to THE PRACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego. California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
26

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.78)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
Wè, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan..
Name
Address
City
Mis. Esthern E Rolomsor 282a El leagon Bhd Sanhligs
ude T
2
mdE tar 
sio y Hcraaecee llue.
Mis Rage Mace t
Edat Eatnjud
Glicabeth l  lovone
40 45 Gaundary H dan digs
Clubde Bal.
41
o
4361ui0T
Houed LA
46sCllharaae
d.Sligoft
4071-3-008.0
121-2st(atinaCny-
ohn Roliman
282o if Cayin Shd.-dan Dige
Mlank. Corery
4A1 E1CEJOY S.D.
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego, California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
26

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.81)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
AtedAlwilkie
2126 Grove St. National City, Calif.
Sallie E. Wilkie
Nellic Holderman
516 "I" are. Hatiomal Cit Cli
794 Roosvell ans national Cif enla)
Mary m Phelpo
Sillan B Bridgman
1114 E, 8t4 St, Naliomal Cly, Cal
Rasph S.Budg man
11
4
Kiney E Bkers
415 Rosevelt ane .. 1.
Casrte M. Bratcher
410 Roosevelr Ave. Aatinal ClyCal
Saral S. Rerfonuider
62s Nativical Cve Yatioial ClyCalyl
goy egalh b labfer
401  hmth y ahimal acy caly
Peter phroberistiansssn
431 E 4 4 Nalunal Gin Caleg:
Zranck R. Vaupel
2.727 Heglanl Cve Mall a
Lorg a. Heleth
015 IDav dietional 
Jaura Jeuseu
431.E-4St National Cty Calil
Greesay. Vaupel
2727 Highland lve. Natioual Aky, Takif.
Forod herton
2809.B Son dliego calf!
79- Aaprer Natft ati Laley
9/8-&-sch el natiual lia
Mes C.Voullen
ms C &, Barnthouse
2405 kghand ane, Natron ty S
Ona, Lullan a. Hbarris 282 o, th St, natimal ety Gakf.
mn mae a Eequbui Gro-F
nolioune Cety Cal
V ioht Luxton
Maya.Cnow
Mue UB. Healee
231 a are hattacal ety U lsaly.
Jogth H Nealor
231 a ar rrleanal tily
Call
Alice ofl dd
1523 Cr, Won N Goll
1105E 6 th 8t Natimel laty Caly.
EuyARamnd
Sond petitins to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego. California. Telephone Hillcrst 3608-J
26

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.82)
cir culated lro:
J. A. Willeee-2126 Heave St. N.C.
Mus. S. E. Wilhi

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.78)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
R.S hozar
725-5th. ave. SanDiego
467- 5e  
B.T. me
MisESrdlen
461 sih dve yaw kiegsll
Du Cale
0o 22). B
407 
Sa. Et.
L593 intade.m snudliep
11.2
B8 
San Seigo
RoDHT
42 2j7h line.
xjauso
Zang ding Luong
534
N.Stap
r736-E1Dg0
He Sttlu
718 Zauzihar Ch. SanDies
C.7. I aming
2145Bran/Sy. San hless
B.Cilest
1511- 35 th San liego
annice Shee
3 470 Cl St
4471-2/417.
Tha
3816-31-5t
Ruth Auptoon
1436-7St
30)) VanCrr
509 5 K Ar
9. (leampro
35m57msann Blnd.
Rauma
3512. 5112.
Zeocar
728- r ave.
F.Maigdio
2035.0 coaddrein Blod
O. Brilln
929-18=14

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.78)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
R.S. Lozar
725-5th. ave. SanDiego
467- 5e  d.de
B.T.e
MisESrdlen
467 sihe dve jaw tiego, Cly
u Cal
200 22). B
467   
2a. Cot.
1593 rntade.m sanndliemp
1.2
8 U
San Seigo
RoDH
42 2j 7h liue.
xao
Zong ding Luong
362 102h8t
San Digo
DPutayy
534 1 go
W.Shay
r736-E1Dg0
TE Sttler
718 Zauzibar Ch. SanDieso
C.7. 0 aming
2145Bnan/Sy. Sanhless
BC
1511-35 th San lieg0
Ihanrice Shee
3 470 C11 St10
4471-1417
Tha
3816-31-5t
Ruth Auptoon
436-7Lt
30)) VanCrr
509 5 K SK
t. (leampro
35757msann Blnd.
Rauva
3512. 511.
Zeocsar
728- 5 ave
F.Maigdio
2035.0 cradrein Blol
O. Brillen
929-18=44

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.76)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
A.N.0Bragg
16067ave
Matinal City Calij
2. s)a...uuiac
She
ve Nolon y
aliee
184
AsNatid l
hi a Seveis
21
Ility. ly
Mhhone 1
2 40 rm yi
Janet A B.
4Pft Street
QVar
10n,  17th t Nateeiat., Gal
aldfint Bordveli
1140 Grangn weirnat ity
Thu.H.L. RasidaeC 531- D. i:e.N. City
ganes deg tagt
88
Mrs Henrey Bay ee
1333 8.24 Si-Nat 
mrs ger  nnc
hueCS. Si
s07 . tre lial City
me Doot. Norgaund
331 1
m a.r
27 2nd it - Vatinal City
MH9
12112.0
mR/
230T20
Mrs. H.S. Dufer
11  Nall
Mos J. "Stronegger. Su
 Grovethatioyal ly
mrs Helen E. Buittimeier
3210 E. 8th St. National aty
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego, California. Telophone Hillcrest 3608-J
26

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.74)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
Qaloadir
N. H Leery
8is wiat st Geteenne Gregoma
Anua Hauven!
477Orange ave Yuma Are
8xh vMagnolia1
PensacoloSxith
1109 5t6 lae.
Yanay Aíz
Kathryr Ward
M.J Tiasslin
83× Jist it
Roorcstupy
2rimain2f quca Anjinen
Amng Geda
rr0 ma . ge.
WiDinison
231 s main at9 ylina cing
Lama a Redd
231-1ue
Gim,
Jilbelnnma Rottins 143-4hard
W.A. Robbins
143-4avr
八
C aleatcpuh
Someiton
Ann.
ErLafen
1031 7 Gue
uma
600/ 11.
Broel Byrd
120-545+
Yuma Arizona
W.8.Plagtn
405 Main S+
Aecrma Aiganee
domicE. Shoon
B0x137
Hmath
Rute1207205
Yun
W.S. Higifiell
Lo Kie Cafe
f. B. Sal
360 ceidch ani
Tyuma arig.
D.E MDaN
501Frsr Ih
Numa arik
kadJBorn.
GoBx1614
Tzmma cerego
Harry yon
P.O·1B0x 1111
Idie  Bals
35 10t
Yura arig,
Iga ang
Send petitions to THE PZACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego. California. Telephone Hillerest 3608-1

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.77)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
S 0. Que 261 mainth.
Ghima, rig.
bazel E,tleer 210 mam st
Ly1t amos 114 Mai 8+
Phnnce ayma
Allsed I. Jaren 285 Main S1
yuma, Ann.
Kus Urnotiong 76 8 1st. sr.
Truna 
Splo Stae
-172 north main yunnani
Filan Wch
361 tmain
Iheex
Heubprf Z Tolley.
88 Therd S1 Yuma, ari
Hlappy
81/-62Ae1
Altrn eppy-
811 6Au
um a
Mary Regegy-
811-6
30 s a,Ane
Zilu Mae Walkw Boy 6ty Yuma Briy,
E R BOCK
384 Tahe ave.
mi Satrudearen
285 mainst fuma Arjona
Ollis Gamble
EL. Elen
36H- 6ale -
R.CHoehler
4th uue.-8ta st. Yuma, Asigona
218 -3r) 3la GRe
MWht
1236-7thAue yusma Adig.
scaers
at.S
taron
Aorderitn ern
Partor
Yna urig 
XosRem
Yumy anly
ka domoyan
Lyuma arts.
Gena
Arig
Kee Matheson
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego, California. Aelephone Hillcrest 3608-J

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.76)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
Ragoh I. grover
4o46 goldfinch t.
San Riege toly
Jean P. Bundey
3004 - 30 d shiet
Sun Wwhego, Sulif.
P0,Box 67
Loer ioge sala
ht. Bichard  eering M B 2Hb
Aum tpigotalif.
TearlEAodor YP1a F WtS
danhugs Ealf.
Jessu C.c llir Hixt. m E
sas igi Call
Slaunee b. Hon UMF-2.NAS.
Coronal, Calif
Ebaine Caauss
849 "A"S)
sant ingo Icaly.
Om0 pot P0ree 43 87(82
Nas Gace lly.
The rara ain
Kenrett t Henalse
alvond C Estep
3667-arnold ane. San D isgo,Calj.
Lrlean. D Wiorks
26898- 81.
Sa D, C
Aya Ge Turrce
Eu Eay
al
may tugt Baloag 44ss nan prsay Sanoge Ca
Rloirsondles
32640lk 8f
Scin duge
anne Poltson 82o-8St
dan
Yearge Swan
2602 di
fav
Liigi Caid
Dus mngse 2552 fC Saun ee Cle
Casolyne E. Jandgraf 1853 montecilo way San Drigo (4
a E 2N
aE Beagond 21612.S. Sau 18
Yeorge Lack
2109 markl San 0ien
Send pettions to THE PRACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego, California. Telephone Hilcrest 3608-J
25

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.77)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
Clty
Pbarr
1205-1820St
Sam Dieg
Woifred Ca, Fry
1341-2y81
Saw Diigs
Dei
Le Gro
0.7 Marluad
SanDu.0 Co.
m Virion 9'
Emia buues
Hagiet E Brin
seronto comuid
SyO
morabyuth
644194
dan'd segs
Stook
105 : Bo ch. JJdg
QO haplm
SMarion L. Towle
2322 Dule St San Sdieso
1114-du-
S.D
Adeletolan
374 Aribda
SD
Reths Alob
1232
Hanald lobe
to ula tu,Cuxluman
clloun
1108 8 5€
28.D.
Who may Aten u
iih-llene Sh
Fud e, Rrk
=10 Sou 37 th Sh Su Hingo
sohm I Sullvan
621 Pofiinvra
elias Bumett
160 11° ave
SS Burch
10314 Buisn. Jin gluwood
Alaa D Janglin
Ln1 4ih ane Say Diga
Rebia 
20624
Glady Palne
4567 Eeorgia 8t.
3217 2h V Dr S
IRtns I' ott
344-/5th t San Tego Cal
Jamo  Saly
8937-841
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego, California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.75)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
June B Sero nw
5080-35=St.
San knig o labf
Elgabeth Ieleesen
41l Rocheste eD
San diigo Calis
Eline Y. Wa.
3672 mt. Vieuw Ds. SaaDhigo Calif.
Helen .
46ten8
xy cego Cavil
Juma Vdans
tsc1
digos
mgyJuFster
4Y4s P unerofT St
Ma Bithy
449 Biin con
ga, Douatta
4710 Clbema
E E. Mar Inlost
u
Hury Galos
SoenVla
322-8
CE. pay
1227
Coianile
112 4 Jf
Gceae
Mas Jahn Lonahue
316
Uuanside
Ael
4Se
(fa. Diage
A.1a
Sub3 st
S. D cl
Pat Bulatur
852- 8 4
Sain libar
fa dlg
Rogthy Zegoyah
3827214
Docad S tiiore3
Federal 1tatel- Jan Diego
arthm" Reckle
4178 Estella San Diego
Wilma Naee
637 Penmrutwanicit Sam daune
Rou Volleer
503s Brigltein gve Occacn Eesch
Hl. Tdallor
140 Un0
Sa. Deege
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego, California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
-26

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.74)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Ad 1615,3rd ave  D
Nam. rs Rita Pascale
6/5-Thud ewe. Dan Lligo
1 Mos, Chagrle, targe
nr.  dol
3479. Ehie, S0. S,ae.
9mor Jare n Skike 8th St Eheorl2 totel Aun Jeg
serx
4789 Dglitf 
Eya M Sui
353
Pe San Don
Josisarly 3s82 Sudug 
4
Charlalte,a
Se Calif
Ye B Io lmar
OherlesHeliema
Bos 3 Len H. igo
Oorill
940-5 " dt Sr D d
Edgay
33611 S
= San
EThol It, Hekean
631.71.2626.
39 2 7 Jrupe ual Ax S.D
Qahn A Mattus
MaSuna N bilong
368/-332600
MarfZjrudde
14471
Mabn, Han,wosts
1318 Robinsoe ave
Ennm Shule
125.6. 10 , S....Pig)
Ms. m. 3b.B.th.
122.2- 13th st.
0.
ras Hanis
444
st Dan Duyo
gamn Harmigt
434
mans Lcru Tyos
Gin m sare
2002- L. in.  d
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego. California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.80)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
2843k E. 87. SuDig
Addpess
City
SalEnit
AtillamLhugher
2835=ESt
Santhegr ECalyf
addie Davis Fries
2876-7 31-
San Diege. Calil.
Ms. Alice E. King
2843-εSt.
Sa Diego, Calif.
tuay B. Bell
L537 (2).
Yon Nhegs Caly
VeraSF. Miller
2711 B 8t
San Dugo
Iplara Tibbals
2114 Ft STcklm102.
Loia m. welden
2003 Puek arns
San Dkego.
Thomoo Wibon
2832ESt
SamSiigo Glj
Murtha Wilsn
2832 t St
Sun Die gr ealy
Kesle S. Tetfand
2852 
Sen Duigs Cail.
Mis. maithas SGestay
2702 &
Sue Oigg calj
SanBaje
Grorge Gentin
285228
Igyog Atnderron
909-2785
San Daig
29/2 5ltut.
Elgabe  Clabury
29/2E SheX
Son fheye
Olof Norsven 
28256st
San Dufo
maryBMoreren
2825E S
Squ Deidg
Leussener 2n Sprianger 286) E lt
San Diego
Chara Spmingy
2867  81.
Sau hlego
Elwauda Eallin
287551
danuido
Tipug . rradiihonse
3902.E.
San Brigo
Eonih . Mann
2887 - F. 27.
San Sisgo Ai
alice mam
2889Fst
Sun Diqo tody
Heben D. mirlamy
28b9. F st. SanDiego Cac1
oharles A, Erigg
2843 Eat Sau2De00 Cl
Naymoud Ir Saleg
214860 st Sau (bugo Calif
Send peMo to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego, Caltornia. Telephone Hilcrest 3608-
26

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.76)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
AdJRin
561-10K ave Santhing
rin
1343-1
57 Diego
Jub Stran
4327 7 alia Sn hed
inMEl
7562.eic(...1o Md
2
Sheridan A Ratils
1465-a. se San xlng, Cacj
W.138mith
446 2tSancueCal
ys a te p11g lalmeu ae pandugo
Jatume um Broon 4179 Palini Df Rautiego
omm a oflare
.Miller
P.0.Box 68 Coronado Calif
Sv arl
2502
Pac
3629
Aperst Shrel,a kliese,Paly
E p ailey
Bo43 So Eoursdt. lanPrejotal
Ele M Tignk
+b5 -18 St, Sam 1lings 081
Atemmy H Dulter
1241 Hendwi Sn iogo
T.F Abclory
3681-332S
San Dugr aly
mos LisRtche
SanlaUsabel Caluy
Segrge Autchie
Santa Usabels, Calif
P.J. walh
111- F st Sundbiegoely
I Mrs,y, m dr ile
427 Draug air, Compnado
A.AJBonner
1509. E. st San Diego balif
May Muianda
451020wa
Jan ciegs, Calik

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.75)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
Lucile Roe
3531 Bark Blod
Sau Siegs Calip
baote teu av
7382
Rose hin
+3
mo alifonis
Hanet Sdp
s
Maei
Xonwa mekeeger
Fallbronk Calif.
8829.32-
Ei d
MPars Medurron
3620-600√
Sadeige, boid
Loidic (a fothrop) 33sg sie Ame..
Nau deago Casj
tice . 2lm 
Park Holel
San 1 ege Cal
Flosmes rusethes
D@ stkeeha
Pouh Holet
Lan Diiga Cal
Enpene R Eelli
t Drin! an
I Bens Fruen
3329-2 hx
 cm n ciye, al
Gatjsliun 1 rrito,
c 1mil 33s1 5 are
cl ard Tesisttmen Tarfe Hooel
SanDiga
7
Smsy M. Hitrard
.JB. Furon
Lula Cate Dl.
MerrielG lagncr- 3525 Park Chidy San Digigo.
miomerell a lagner-
Broille A Achall sosg tarx Bcrd SanBego Palip
Mas FrauusNt. redus 3529's Sack Berd. Son Deigs Caiin.
mo. Beniere Brigp. 3359-5th are. SauLliig0, Cdlif.
Sylit Elia
25
Send fetition

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.76)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
alice l1 Thaunard 1328-30
Lan Ixegs
Hyh bray
621.c
San Shiy, Cay
Rons 2wedel
3660 tn u
San  leegu Cely
Ineuu 9. iltt
1772 jitus
Dau Diego Galis.
Prancisblanaluy
Fallhyoi a
Bp#6H
Carletal Calit
ANieeny
12
u Chege is.
ocaclia,ai
Bleo  thraiilinice
Lecadia ede
EsrBeggr
130x702
Severdia Cal
A.b. vousdonsky
os ilteitaare
Oeransidalry
magan
Foucadia loly
Marbv
Lda 
Moo E Keing
En ciuitav
E
mso m E Ve nit
Harrison iivoon
Emciniatao.
Wrilliamc.allen
Leucadia Calil
GhemFLeuss
Deamucle SaElD
Laucadia ans
maslihsBate
Charls I. Joms
Encinity, Cady
Taart L Gmler
OuamieCals.
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego. California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.79)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
Mrs ②. Roll bery
4368 0 his Sts SawDiegs alif
Mho. N. I Beigler
433s- Cle re tund llo.
Fagr Sthaunua
2026-A.
San D ago. Caly.
940-7
Owa
734-)(
mosZrancesd umner seel frift lie
Wrs p Cornies
54611
El -
3754-41351.5020 Py.
Riny Sierge Ttates, Sandrnge
g.Rtinnsngts
Mus, Anona S! Hughes.
2017-101. trut.
2804- 3. dei 1t. An. Daigo.
Stephen Sand,er.
Hhiyn H Kerber
3067-Dv
Eduro Schnnder
3 Fale n 
APCanmn
285J Beech
C a Elkingta
949 lemth
060AS
Masdmber
Landings, oly
Many lmie
63668t
636 C Sl- SauLlingo Ch7
217
3642-4 .5
Franh Smith
Ilaiah H endorson
501-7St Sar J dgo
6823 Atst baDg
marut fonie
Joh a Joies
6823 Ah San rigo
abou Jully
10317 San Dger
Thover E ROE
3210 Oranje aare Sam LDiyy
Henmy Kuih
341-145
CorltCalansn
4251, 3rd que Sontlriga, Cal
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego, California. Telophone Hillcrest 3608-J

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.76)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
jic
P.oleave
3081u
Pobest S ob..
553- sih live Sam bingo
Edunsd Joner
35h 1ht sonPolgo
B. C. Neters.
in's Paky.
Oaesy Es
4471 
Curl Ciels
745-1474x+
1640-3-ar-
Joo Greggyic ly
660- 18ti. g11 Logy byy
toltllo.
12615- 12  Se duigo
Sm Diegs Clatt
OCC.Ou stut
V. Waherriau y.
025
is Thisnic Aulsic
ih. Jascm
615 sith dac.
ID Waterr.
3121 E2oS1. VationalChy
Mlbut R Lonth
2277KearnyanC
An
1815 21 wa
Killia s San
20ath6-x
Borolamo Rayera
2070. Oceanvueu
famul Cal Bot139
iam carthy
1267-8 ave sansric
Welfen  Nrton
15-43-24-8
0,7. 3.1ou
342 80 801h 1158
Thougs yastal
2202 )rettny klsd
a Elulloud
1640-saxbm tiepe
Send petitions to THE PBACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, n Diedo. California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
26

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.79)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
Celman d. Areson
3533 Judeana Are. San Dings
Mrs Nellle M Ivaltly
3222 to fliy Que.
Mrs Auma M. Mtite
404534
Mro Myrlle ino
11104 33.1 (t.
S.K. Hauen
32-2 Coplu lly
Olis C  ant
4030 Hamulln fan Hugo
Louis helrous
3376 Upas H
MI. M  Hekk
0354/111
ilda üls
234029
Mis hI Pulens
3376
Mis Maris Krager
2799 Fnohington Cron Ly hilly
Mrs. Duus fleilt
You Manhalla t. M,rion SSach
ors Fran Feger
5.20 -20 t San dige Ed
My Pmarggret A. toans
1027 Beryl sl-. Pacific Beach bal
Miss Rosalie Sange
4798 34th. St. Sam Dicge lialif
msi. E Van dlea
4052 Boendan
Mr a. e. van vlict
40s2 Baundats
My Leggie Martineen
1420 -2 aoc. San fug0 tocele
Mrs Mathilda E Gustin
21 12 5tve La6io
Miss Hannahi Lind
30/2 Boston ctve Fan Siego
Ma Sithy M Persing
1315-27St San Sugo ai.
Spmte Rande
2112-5oh ave. San Diego, Calif.
C.E.raemer
4465-33-d PA- Aan Drego, al.
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego, California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
26

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.79)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
San liegoCalif.
Name
Address
Cit
Samuel S. Stilson
1277 Essey Ss-dm Lliigok
Ratherine Cesmal
N-
Southern Halel 6 thtBsh
Frauh Fasano
1451 Unisnsily au.
14
41
George R Donald
14/9 Unversity ine
111
45(2myme4
OftmerReel
Mary I Hi
36/7-382
14
Aa
145dnirreity aoe
44
1465-Unreaoidy Are-
111
H.L. Block
403, Jeongia 1st.
PeggyE Dodion
4063 Arigein
Masgart A Ilrr k
422 ckciaur
Roet Siop
@F.Shro<
Kathber giahim
1
2/21
1483- Unnrnetyane
'111
CENeufern
11672001.1
14
ARRichard
151. Wachnylon
1i
Victoria Icaslor
L015 Rohinson
11
Fhorene . Jaylor
1615 Rofinsne St.
11
2
Uoner Alllen
6985 Georgia
RtBaudix.
1027 Rhma
0
Neli0mushu
1565 Oregna
25
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego, Californta. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.77)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
Margoeot l lonecou
3/95 Kalma it San Icige Cal.
lirtudelais
1459
St San Diego bal.
anga
rau Digo, Cal.
Mirlam S Ioshhins
15451.SanDl
wan
B1 Beynmorl
17i0 Enver enDige
m
yabel Esmond
Parte Haicl Xue Leige
mas Amuld Schromm
3331 L7SunAige
Elvang Aith
3.354- Finl oe
NooCLeR.Toin
+10 Ua.mPyLfaneigo
Thota Narreso
335+9 5ih 4k Sn,d8
AmaNceadehand
3025 Upas st San Theg 
Billie B. Valden
4.334 uttah kt. tan Eing
Helen Cve ivou
15 3, ooxcur t are. tat. @ ly
372 t. St. Chula Visto- Ey.
Charla MSwwage
1402-z0=St Jau Dieg0 Balif
206 E 4thxt had eg ealy.
Pnly ordace
4tc3-3sch  au dieer taly
1705aliarnatt Cit
Reyanghen
H024-HamiS I
2508 Dan macas am, fanDego Caly.
3402-45th 8t.San Wg0-Calif
4561 nonior Qve - Sau Niegd
Sond petdons te THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego, California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
26

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.78)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
AM foliuga
Address
City
#/80 4thire. Sam Digo:
Mary StrntCe..
heucadia all
ElJocum
1112.2
Hazel. C. Colli
Mrs OMartin hel2om
Ensuila
r1
Khartin Helson
Caly
Pealline
Emeadin
Stkeee
Auitar Cas
Emily Reese
Enciritas Ca liz
ms EE Rua
Encinta
E. M F
Meonnlad Caly
H.L. Land
Leucadia Cal.
Holly Rya
Leuca lia Cal.
Aumeth  Neuch
2214 Booodiray San drig
ada Everuham
221s Broadwal Sau igs
Mable udeesan
3614 Heargia Sandling
Deraihy E argall
3574h0uiineSn.
HI
8 8 u SntegaCal
B. Austin
6 34- 20  
Clara schuuire
484Reno Sa Dielg
S/S
Warsares N au
202
Sqe 2hu4
3772 
36 4.5 Park Blul.
Moigaret 7 B.no wn
155b eend are
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego, California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
25

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.82)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
Susan Ahn . 5741 Ee Cajon, San diego
My J.F. Carloon 8221 Junipn Sh San Srigo, Taliz.
Mor D. J hursam I/s Catalnia Brod San Diege Cof.
HaroadWuch
3694.3357
San Hrégo Call
RobetaHalan
4432- noaroe im San rege
Dacny kee rorcenter
4027 BBrant Stcut an Degd
A.a.Huening
201-KclmiaStr nDiego
horok
3758
Sohn
4589
Higlhland live san Drieer, Cal.
4374 K
Pornise Ude
45 89 HighlandaveSn liege Cal.
2158,' Righland anenue San diigo Calilarvia
Beatuce de
Frgnd 2uich 3038 dunset Bbrd
Aoth  arlsn 322, ouyn. Son Xgo 
Mthis l2thur  aan (3038 t Dlr San t Cy
Richard -c ott
46 51 Bermuda
Sin Dicgs
Stanbeyha U
sa 
Riatis E; Binder 17yyFiist ane Sam Diego t
Mra. Mariha P. Spahr- Biviera ht. Hotel- Db:+A. A.
Tohn 21 diultmahh 3005; 30 th 84.Lan  e10 2
Mns E h1 S iiubb3941 Vermont st Sm el
Miy-mo Claunec Sanupson
3/367220
AnsClorar a Duvit 3y58 Frs Sr San Tuig 0 @aly
Mns sofhia Anening. 201 talma dr
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego, Caifornia. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.80)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
Mis Hh J
Ma
NN 0.9119
Hani -
Ro bot
131
Bule
De Hibam.
2424 Pairvo Ave. San Dige
Cora la Picree
2
Jom Howand
mrs Tom THaward
3045uhijr S1SanDiet
ms
la
 1 Cble
2/14
1021153
Cdu in. liase
214s - feim of,
Jues rwin
sostyoube.it.
Pearl GPaers
3052444Re
Fthitesy
. Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego, California. Telephône Hillcrst 3608-J
26

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.77)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undorsigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
Wm Warlpol
3322
E Mikbna
3894
Suscesrer . Aoon bin
 Waws
2905-
malic al rve-gan ugd
Schryhe Sulson
3925
2be S8
AuStisier
1120
Cimisi It sandiigro. Cal
a. ls. In B 12cy
3140
Daid
Ay
8
3rs 2aad
tom oig aly
dRust
33200 19
Anten Fabiger
4789 Lrigh7 1t dan Dugi
Fy Muthm
4088 34 Sa4 Kircgy Gal
ton Sal 536 F2. Co
Oun,R, Heu. Tuie 924-262 2t San Dugo Cal
3439 6 0 5
Henbert diaurnce, Edmonton- Alberta-Canadae
eirge Leaurence Codmonter - alberta . Canacian
40nh 4149 Fai1 .
AlbenteRoge21 1453-1t va das1 Dr0Cal
Eari& Pu 145s 1t as Sg Dy Cly
Olanarn 3u04-3ot Sa g l
Send petitions to THE P2ACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue. San Diego, California. Telophone Hillcrest 3608-J
26

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.77)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
6hluth 
So Dien
M R H 
Ratherine re
3519 1t1
1136 
We yollie Bogas
271D 6 14 aue
Mis Tolihalt E r
224s Fisst Are. Sgu hicyo Caliy.
maml Suckstide, 3 713- 44- S...D iyo6.
Tracfgi
Robert marrison /os SinColu CAve
SheiSDwa
llee
1980  g
Oonrthy Ne
4001
4770 Ce S L
Hagalel C. Jise culust
2723 A St, fauAuya
Chanis0
Wht6- iycut St Sin Xuue
Crees
2
Fush luei.
3.14? iogma-St Sau Lliag
adadeil llcyls)
3943 gepdg0.tpanding
Mli M. E. Parmin
4002 Lt an Pi Ladi y
Laarra M. Iru.
4021
ligge Wlium
4002 S1090 muo Pl
MytlPhillmolke
2528 b 8t.
205 2.dal
Se M. Hollin gsSorth
441 4/084.
AT.Cles
406 fet
Bend petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diege. California Telephone Hillerest 3608-J
25

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.79)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
mae helson
4509 Mansliild Die.
S.D.
Mala Neloow
4625-350th 8/rcet
SD
QmyPouse Suwis
4645-358tuit
SD
WabndaJoue
Hioll =k Strent
Sanphegs
16 1. 35 k 100t
San Difo
2
CAH. Kodm
1
Gueln
15 Pelt
ClisabethE 
Talhs 73onan
Lafos Tengle. cony
010 m Douaad
Re.
Cey
m Duke
1842 0
Stplla Chis l1
4173 - 161h sh 8am As: yo
V. Van Qele
Leman eroue .f
Dich Van Bele
S. mon M oe tal
Frank Shgran.
3029F St SanLlregs.
mur Afbce I. 13a cd
6 26 13 st SaDiego
Ms. CharlesE Mooileo a
Mooihead dond
Send petitions to THE PRACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego. California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
-26

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.79)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Nam
Address
City
HmPrusles
H.3. Strallore
3628 Cgon B.. San Aig2 
3460 Icllol Si Jan Dige Ealyoania
D. AW. quicholda
W. 443 y B
Ches 7 Fadgm 4739- 328t Sar heny Cly
 - - ut Sou Deige
ferou a I ea kvsty
s)3
365 53 29
) LBK
sirdue
Edgarue
Tny mantm
a..
Urigmin B. Seming
11222 Caaja - Ns. Hollyvood
Elth B. Peckr
2226 MadsontA0., San Digo
Earh He
11222 Califa No -Holly woad
Send petitions to THE PEACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego, California. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
26

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.81)
To
Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States,
and
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State
We, the undersigned, earnestly protest the shipment of scrap iron
and other war material to Japan.
Name
Address
City
Edythe Jayton
751-24tast
Dun Driga Cal
Cola Belie
1i E 131! 11 Natl oy Eal
wwt
10s 13 -x Mativul Cily Calf.
alped a.tlclker
442 R ave nalinal Ci de.
Myile S Welke
442  aue
HtoaNga
Trach W. Rrod.
1601 9428
Hational Cily fOdd
Ella Rood
10.4 8 4th 81
Nutisnal Ety Calig
Helery
up Bir Ca
Jess Hastings
2104wil.
tratiomms city ealil
mata Hastings
21i4 wion ave Natuial city Calif.
Walland I tones
3989 Proust Ln iedo
Herbert S ward
3755 Dallergia  San Cigocaid
Samw ei
9/0 A ave nationalcity balif
Bulla Ont
5-s7 tsukes 1d sin Eoln aceho
aurehio Barryas
1431 Hoyrer avr
Ramn cota
coolddge ave patcity
ms. l Til fove
Send petitions to THE PBACE COMMITTEE, 3546 First Avenue, San Diego, Callfornia. Telephone Hillcrest 3608-J
25

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.96)
CA
WEST SIDE COMMITTEE TO AID CHINA
353 RIVERSIDE DRIVE
NEW YORK CITY
Telephone ACadomy 2-2645
1 1 1 34
c0omber 7 1958.
November 30, 1938.
DR. HOWARD D. McGRATH
Chairman
Hon. Cordell Hull
COI
LILLIAN BARNARD GILKES
Secretary
Secretary of State
DEC5
71938
Washington, D. C.
AST 
Qck.12/2750
GRUH/LIK
SPONSORS
SIA!L
Dear Mr. Ilull:-
T. A. BISSON
Author, "Japan in China"
My Committee has instructed me to request
PROF. JOHN L. CHILDS
an interview with a representative of the Department
Teachers College
of State at which one of our ofricers would have an
PROF. GEORGE S. COUNTS
Orrortunity to present the views of our organization
Teachers College
894.2
on the relations between the U.S. and Japan in the
DR. CO TUI
present Far Eastern conflict. The West Side Comittee
American Bureau for
now represents tie opinions of people in over thirty
Medical Aid to China
neighbourliood ciurches and clubs and after consider-
WILLIAM E. DODD JR.
Chairman, China Aid Council
able discussion of the problems involved the Com-
mittee is anxious to present the convinced sentiment
RABBI ABRAHAM L. FEINBERG
Mt. Neboh Temple
of its members. Expression of this has been given
5
in a recent resolution unanimously adopted at a
2
Y. E. HSIAO
General Secretary
large meeting called by tne Committee, copy of which
5
Chinese Christian Students Ass'n
I enclose.
in North America
DR. REINHOLD NIEBUHR
A represent tive of the Com: ittee, Mr.
Union Theological Seminary
I. F. G. Milner, is to oe in Wasnington on December
HARRY B. PRICE
nint. and tenth and I wish to inquire whetner a brief
Secretary, American Committee
for Non-Participation in
interview is possible on either of tiose dates, pre-
Japanese Aggression
ferably the morning of December tenth.
PROF. WALTER RAUTENSTRAUCH
Chairman, China Committee
I am
Columbia University Federation
for Democracy and Intellectual Freedom
JOSEPHINE SCHAIN
Very sincerely yours,
Chairman, National Committee
on the Cause and Cure for War
( 2iin 15. Gthee
MAXWELL S. STEWART
Chairman, American Friends
F/A
of the Chinese People
Lillian B. Gilkés
DR. PAUL C. WARREN
Executive Secretary
West End Presbyterian Churdh
As Individuals
LBG: TM

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.97)
RESOLUTION.
WHEREAS the U.S.Goverment has repeatedly protested against the
continued bombing by the Japanese militarists of the Chinese open
cities and helples, civilians , and of u iversities and hospitals
both Chinese and American
and whereas this wanton dostruction continues to a large extent
through the import u Japan of merican scrap iron, gasoline and oil,
steel, airplanes,trucks end other war maturials,
Be it ReSolVED that this me ting appeal to the President and the
Secretary of State to declare illegal the shipment of war materials
to the Japanese Government and thus prevent Americans from being
partners in these oriminal aots
and be it further solVs that tle rresient and the
secretary
of itate be urged to extond uvery poible aid tb cina , in
particular by the sale on cre it of the surplus wheat and other
foodstuffs which tnis country can now spare .

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
vecember 7 1938.
My dear Miss Gilkes:
The recelpt is aoknowledged of your letter of Novem-
ber 30, 1938, enolosing a copy of a resolution in regard
to the export of war and other materials which was adopted
unanimously at a meeting held by your committee.
Your courtesy in furnishing the Department with a
copy of this resolution is greatly appreoiated.
There is tranemitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, commonly
894.24/
referred to as the Neutrality Aot. It will be observed
that Seetion 1(a) of this Joint Resolution provides that
whenever the President shall find that there exists a state
of war between or among two or more foreign states he shall
5
2
proclaim such faet. Should the President issue a proolame-
5
tion finding that a state of war exists between China and
Japan, the export from this country of arms, ammumition,
and implements of war to both China and Japan would be
immediately
Miss Lillian B. Gilkes,
Exeeutive seeretary,
Wost side Commistee to Aid China,
355 Riverside Drive,
FA
New York, New York.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
immediately prohibited. In the absence of sueh a proelame-
tion, there is no statutory authority for preventing such
exports.
In determining not to issue a proolamation, the Pres1-
dent has exercised the disoretion vested in him by the
statute. He could not fail to recognize that the primary
purpose of this statute is to keep this country out of war,
and he, of course, felt obliged to take into acoount all
the pertinent conditions and ciroumstances. Inoidentally,
I may stress the fact, in vlew of what 1s above stated, that
a proolamation would have placed an embargo on the shipment
of aheemaserial mentioned not only to Japan but also to
china.
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize the
President or the Secretary of State under any ciroumstances
to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms,
ammumition, and implements of war. The artioles and
materials which are considered to be arms, ammunition, and
implements of war are enumerated in the President's Proela-
mation of May 1, 1937, which is set forth under Part II of
the enelosed copy of the pamphlet, International Iraffie in
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has issued licenses for the export
o8

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.91)
-3
of arms, ammmitien, and implements of var to chime is
the valme of $14, 307,902.30 and to Japam in the value
of $10,793,865.38.
As you are aware, the Sesretary of state has stated
publiely on repeated oecasions with referense te the besb-
ing of eivillan popelations and the probable danger to
Amerleams and Amerlean iaterests abroad that this Govern-
memt condemms the bombing of eivilian populations or its
material eneouragement. The Government's condemnation of
this praetice has been expressed direetly to all mamu-
facturers and exporters in this country of airplanes and
acromeutical equipment.
The Department will be pleased to reeeive your repre-
sentative, Mr. I. F. G. Milner, during his ooming visit to
Washington. In this connection, it is suggested that upom
arrival he commmicate with Mr. R. v. Haig of the Offiee of
Arms and Munitions Control with a view to arranging a
mutually satisfactory time for a eonference.
Simeerely yours,
For the Aoting Searetary of State:
DEC 7 1938.PM
Q
Charles W. Yost, Asting Chief,
Offiee of Arms and Numitioms Control
melosures!
ら
Jeint Reselution.
A inue of
Pamphlet.
the signe rigl
FE
nal.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
CA
WEST SIDE COMMITTEE TO AID CHINA
CEIVED
353 RIVERSIDE DRIVE
NEW YORK CITY
PN 25
Telephone ACademy 2-2645
DB. HOWARD D. McGRATH
Chairman
LILLIAN BARNARD GILKES
Secretary
secemner 27 1950.
December 14, 1938.
894
Mr. R. V. Haig
SPONSORS
Office of Munitions and Arms Control
1:vision of
State Denartment
CAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
T. A. BISSON
Washingtun, D. C.
Author, "Japan in China"
6E02:1938
PROF. JOHN L. CHILDS
Teachers College
Dear Mr. Haig:
Deasgment of State
PROF. GEORGE 8. COUNTS
Teachers College
Our Conmittee vas pleased to receive
a letter ated December 7 from Mr. C. ". Yost,
DR. CO TUI
American Bureau for
granting an interview with its renresentative, Mr.
Medical Aid to China
I. F. G. Milner, on the sibject of U. S. relations
8
WILLIAM E. DODD JR.
Witn Japan and China in the present crisis. Mr.
6
Chairman, China Aid Council
ilner tells me that after having arranged the inter-
RABBI ABRAHAM L. FEINBERG
viw he unfortunately received an urgent call back to
Mt. Neboh Temple
Ner York and was thus unable to state the views of
the Committee to you in person.
4/
Y. E. HSIAO
General Secretary
Chinese Christian Students Ass'n
The chief puroos: of the Committet in
5
in North America
seeking an interview as to urge immediate and effec-
2
DR. REINHOLD NIEBUHR
tive action by th- U. S. Government to cease the flow 9
Union Theological Seminary
of all munitions and war materials for Japan. The
HARRY B. PRICE
Committee feels that such action cn cuite properly be
Secretary. American Committee
taken by executive order under Section 338 of the
for Non-Participation in
Japanese Argression
Tariff Act, though th precise details of application
obviously are a matter for the authorities concerned.
PROF. WALTER RAUTENSTRAUCH
We urge action along thesc lines both as the logical
Chairnan, China Committee
Columbia University Federation
complement to the State Fenartment's firm note to
for Democracy and Intellectual Freedom
Tokyo of October 6 and because we fear delay in re-
JOSEPHINE SCHAIN
vision of the Neutrality Act so as to provide for a
Chairman, National Committee
full e hargo against Janan.
on the Cause and Cure for War
MAXWELL S. STEWART
I enclose a copy of a Resolution which
Chairman, American Friends
was adonted un nimously at a meeting held in upner
of the Chinese People
Manhattan last evening, attended by nearly two hundred
DR. PAUL C. WARREN
peonle. There is very strong feeling among those
West End Presbyterian Churdh
peonle witn whom we have come in contact, that the flow
As Individuals
of U. S. raw materials as well as munitions to Japan,
must be stopped.
A1
I am,
Yours very sincerely,
Lilhain Barmand Gilkep
illian Barnard Gilkes
Secretary

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
RESOLUTION.
WHEREAS, the people of the United States desire peace and
deplore international lawlessness and aggression,and
WHEREAS, the Japanese invasion of hina, fomented by the military
party of Japan, has led the United States and many other nations
to indict Japan as a violator of the Nine Power Treaty and the
Kellogg Pact, and repeatedly to protest against the merciless
bombing of undefended Chinese cities, of helpless civilians,
and of American schools,universities, hospitals,missions and
business enterprises in China, and
WHEREAS, Japan has ignored all protests, is carrying on all kinds
of discrimination against American commercial rights and cultural
interests in China, and is able to continue the war against
the Chinese people largely through the import of huge quantities
of American oil and gasoline, scrap iron,trucks,machinery, and
other essential war supplies,
THEREFORE, be it resolved that this meeting urge the President and
the ecretary of State to see that the proper authorities take
immediate action under Sectiona 338 of the Tariff Act
to prevent Japan's access to American muinitions and war
materials, and
FURTHER, be it resolved that we pledge ourselves not to buy
Japanese goods so long as the sale of these continues to
arm an aggressive Japan with American war supplies.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.95)
secomber 27 1938.
My dear Mies Gilkes:
I ackmewledge the receipt of your letter of Decem-
ber 14, 193s 1a whieh your Committee urges that aetion be
taken under Seetion 33s, Title III of the Tariff Aet of
894.24/526
1930 (Publie Resolution--No. 36l--7lst Congress--2nd Ses-
siem) to prehibit the export of all munitions and war
mmterials to Japan. I also acknevledge the reseipt of the
eopy of a resolution urging similar action whieh accom-
pasied your letter and whioh was adopted unanimously by
nearly two hundred people at a meeting held in New York
City on Deeember 13.
In reply I have to laform you that the seetion of
law to whieh you refer authorises the President under
certain conditions to prehibi: the impartation into the
United states of the goods of foreign sountries. This
law
Miss Lilliam B. Gilkes,
F
Exeeutive Seeretary,
West side Commissee to Aid China,
A
383 Riverside Drive
New Yerk, New York.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.86)
  et nter mthority to restrn ln 
hasseever exporte frem this country and 1t coald mette
sed, therefere, to prerent the epert of sse 
mtetale to Japen.
the Goverament's pesition d th regard to the mes
application of the Neutrality Aot of May 1, lost to the
Far Basters situation wms, as you will reeall, set ferth
1n some detail 1n my letter to you ef Deesmber ?, 19ss.
sineerely yours,
For the Asting Sesretary of state:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief,
Offiee of Arms and manitions Control
CR
DIC 22 1958.PM
5
Ant
CA: RVII 6: 
19-80 12-11

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.94)
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
1F
EPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS
December 6, 1938
Weh'l
znk
IAH LADIE ATA
Dr. Stanley K. ilornbech
Department of state
894.24
washington,D.C.
Department of State
18190
Dear Stanley:
IMENT OF STATE
I nave receiv
communication from Har
B. Price, xecutive Secretary of the American Committee
for Non-Participation in Japanese gression. He sug-
gests wiring or writing the becretary of : tate and the
Chairmar of the House und Sen te Comn ittees urging more
894.24/527
vigorou. action to stop the supply or American munitions
to Japan. I am in full ugreement with this view, but
instend of adding to the : tack o telegrams or letters
which his commit tce is trying to start in motion it
seems to me better to write directly to yourself since
you are follov ing thi: su ject more closely than any-
body else und can make the most effective use of in-
formation concerning tne development of pupiic opinion.
I had hoped I mirht be seeing you this fall
in order to diseuss the many matters of mutual interest,
but it looks non u i1 1 cloulo not be in nasnington be-
fore January. I'hope tat congress can pe persuaded at
the next ression to give the Executive wider discretion
in the administrotion of the so-called Neutrality Act,
and if my name is of any value in nis connection I
should be slad to h ve it used as may do the most good.
Lincerely yours,
uthur
Arthur A. Holcombe
F/A

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
DCR
December 13, 1938.
Dear Arthur:
I mave mmde note of the essential points
in your letter of December 6, namely, that
you favor more vigorous actiom toward stopping
the supply of munitions to Japan and that you
"hope that Congress can be persuaded at the
894.24/
nert session to give the xecutive wider
diseretion in the administration of the so-
oalled Houtrality Aot" and that your name may
be used.
5
With all best wishes -- always,
2
7
Yours sinoerely,
STANLEY K. HORNBECK
Arthur N. Holoombe, A.B., Ph.D.,
Department of Government,
Marvard University,
Cambriage, Massaehusetts.
F/A
A true copy of
the signed orig-
inal.
PVH:3m
SKH:ZMK

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.94)
REB
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
San Francisco, California
DEcEmbEr 19, 1938
REc' 5:45 p. m.
DEC19
DEPART
Cordell Hull,
CL271938
Divisign of
ack:12/20/38
DC201938
cury
Washington, D. C.
: vic
894.24
Up to two thousand ChinEsE nmEn, womEn, childrEn and
sympathizers picketing M.S. PYRoS chartered by thE Mitsui
894.24/528
Company to load scrap iron for Japan. Picket linE prEvents
longshoremen from loading ship. Waterfront Employers
threaten to shut down port. Emjargo on Japan would solvE
this situation which may lead to coastwidE shut-down if
not straightenEd out. ImmEdiatE action is called for in
thE interests of American workers and commErcE. Will you
notify us by wirE immediately your position. Answer Postal.
Germain Bulcke, President,
Ilwu Local 1-10.
NPL
F/A
11
u

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.86)
TELEGRAM SENT
NONOONFIDENTIAL GODE
Department of State
Washinglon,
4// Coelest
December 80, 1938
Mr. Germain Buloke, President,
Ilwu Local 1-10,
San Franoisoo, California.
Your telegram December 19.
There is no authority under existing law for pro-
hibiting or restricting the export of sorap iron to any
894.24/528
foreign country. The question of the enactment of legis-
lation of this sort rests in the hands of Congress.
Acting Secretany or State
014
PM
DEC 20 1958.
ANDIS
COIATIONS
DIANUSSIN UG
RV
Rm
EO
つ
CA: CWY: VIC
FE
E TE
n.m.d
Enciphered by
CIE
Sont by aperater.
D.C.
1-1000
U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.92)
CHIEF CLFRK
AND
peeemper 27 1958.
THE WHITE HOUSE
11
WASHINGTON
CEIVED
197
Decembor"19, 1938.
ach.12/20/38
STA
PM 2 50
R2H/EH:88
MENT
894.24/529
Respectfulay referred to State
RLCORDS
Department for consideration and
acknowledgment.
M.H. McINTYRE
Secretary to the President.
Pivinton of
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
020201038
F/A
Department of Se
mr

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.95)
Mr.Savage
ecomper 27 19381
My dear Er. Fong:
By referenee from the White Beuse I moknowledge the
receipt of your telegram of December 18, 1938 in which
you state that 2,000 people pieketing the loading of
serap iren on a vessel in San Franeiseo bound for Japan
Jein with the Chinese people of Sam Franciseo in their
894.24/529
appeal to the President to prevent the further shipment
of war materials to Japan.
Your courtesy in furaishing the President with this
infermation is greatly appreciated and you may be sure
that it will receive the most eareful eonsideratien.
Your attention 1s invited to Seetion 1 (a) of the
Jeint Resolution of May 1, 1937, commenly referred to as
the Noutrality Aot, a copy of which is enolosed, which
provides that whenever the President shall find that there
existe a state of war between or among two or more foreigm
states
F/A
Mr. B. S. Fong.
China War Relief Asseeiatien,
843 steekten strees,
Sam Frameisee, Galifermia.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.93)
2
states he shall preelaim susk faet. Sheuld the Presidest
1ssue a preelematien finding that a state of war exists
betweem Chine and Japen, the erpert from this country ef
arme, ammumitien, and implements of war to beth Chine and
Japen weuld be immediately prohibited. In the abeenee ef
sush a preelamatien, there 1s ne statutory authority for
preventing sueh experts.
In determiming mot to issue a preclamation, the
President has exereised the discretion vested in him by
the statute. Ne sould mot fail to reeognise that the
primary purpose of this statute 1s to keep this country
out of war, and be, of course, felt obliged to take inte
ascount all the pertiment conditioms and ciroumstamees.
Incidentally, I may stress the fact, in view of what 1s
abeve stated, that a preolamation would have plaeed an
embarge on the shipment of the materlal mentioned mot
only to Japen but to Chima.
The Neutrality Let, moreever, does not autherise the
President or the Secretary of State wnder any cireumstanees
to prehibit the export of commedities ether than arms, am-
mmnitien, and implements of war. The artieles and materials
whieh are comsidered to be arme, ammumition, and implemente
of war are emumorated in the President's Preelamation ef
May 1, 195?, which 1s set forth under Part II of the
enelosed

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.91)
-8
eneloced copp of the pemphlot Laternatienal Iraffie la Arme.
It will be moted that serap irem 1s not imeluded in such
emumeratiem. There 1s ne statute now in existenee which
weuld smthorise the Presidemt or the Seeretary of State to
prehibit the expert of serap iren to Japan er to aay ether
foreipm coumtry.
You may be 1nterested to know that sinee July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has 1ssued licenses fer the export
of arms, ammumition, and implemente of war to Chime in the
value of $14,307,902.30 and to Japan 1n the value of
$10,805,865.30.
sineerely yours,
For the Leting Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Yest, -Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Manitioms Centrel
Enclosures:
1. Cepy of Joint Resolution,
May 1, 1937.
Pamphlet- Intermational
Traffie in Arms.
DE 23958.P
pmt
5
CA:RVE:EM:SS (22/21
FE
nes

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.93)
wimtion Cheak
2Je
n
-11
In C S.A.
ONI-MID
oM/
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL,
Shanghai, China,
November 23, 1938.
vision of
Confidential
LAP LASIEAN AFFAIRS
DEC 20 1938
COPS
Depertment of
ONLA
onferice
DEC 23 1938
PARTMENT OF ST :TE
SUBJECT
Circulation of Propaganda Against
74.2RM/C
American Assistance in Japan's War
on China.
DEC 2 S 1938
OF
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
OHATAHBNORABLE
DEPARTMENT OF'AT
DIVISION OF
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
COUNICAT
PUBLICATIOUNS
20192
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
894.24/530
1/
I have the honor to submit herewith to the De-
partment a copy of a pamphlet, reprinted in Shanghai
but originally published in Lew York, entitled
"America's Share in Japan's Jar Guilt", wh ich is re-
ceiving considerable local circulation. Apparently
the only difference between the American printing and
this edition consists in several aditional paragraphs
added where space permits throughout the publication.
2/
There is also enclosed a copy of an envelope
which accompanies the booklet. It contains two printed
letter forms and a small shcet heuded "Summary of Peace
Act." One of the letters is intended to oe audressed
to friends in the United States suggesting that a
letter, along the lines of the other enclosed, be
F/A
addressed to various "Key Government Representatives"
urging the cessation of the shipment of munitions,
raw
1-1201

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.93)
mrions rbeal
295
n
1-1
In C S.A.
ONI-MID
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL.
Shanghai, China,
November 23, 193e.
Confidential
n of
AADILAN AFFAINS
JEC201936
Depertment of
DFC 23 1938
DPARTMENT OF ST TE
SUBJECT
Circulation of Propagunda Against
44.2RM/C
Ame ican Assistance in Japan's ar
on China.
DEC 2 C 1938
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
OHETAABNORABLE
DEPARTMINT.A
DIVN
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
COMMUNICAT
PUBLICATIOS
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
894.24/530
1/
I have the honor to submit herewith to the De-
partment a copy of a pamphlet, roprinted in Shanghai
but originally publiched in New York, entitled
"America's Shere in Japan's ar Guilt", W ich is re-
ceiving considerable local circulution. Apparently
the only difference between th American printing and
this edition consists in several ad itional paragraphs
added where space permits throughout the public tion.
2/
There is also enclosed a copy of an envelope
which accompanies the booklet. It contains two printed
letter forms and a small sheet heuded "Summary of Peace
Act." One of the letters is intended to be audressed
to fricnds in the United States suggesting that a
letter, along the lines of the other enclosed, be
addressed to various "Key Government Representatives"
F/A
urging the cessation of the shipment of munitions,
raw

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
raw materials, other supplies and credits from the
United States to Japan.
The Consulate General hus been uble to luarn
that the printing of this material has been planned
and organized by Dr. M. O. Wi liams, a member of
the Methodist piscopal ission, Scuth, normally
stationed ut Soocihov, nd Lirs. R. L. Paty, a member
of the sume mission, normally stationed at Changchow.
Dr. Willians has stated th't no American business men
or Chinese or other foreir ners neve hed anything to
do with the project une that copies have been given
only to those whe voula not, in the opinion of the
distributors, misuse the information.
Respectfully yours,
C. . Gauss,
Americun Consul General.
Enclosures:
1/ - Copy of pamphlet entitled "America's
Shure in Japan's War Guilt," as re-
printed in Shanghai.
2/ -
Copy of envelope, containin letters
as stated.
800
JHP:fc
In Quintuplicate.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Copy to Embassy, Chungking.
Copy to Embassy,
Tokyo.
71

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
AMERICA'S SHARE
IN JAPAN'S WAR GUILT
This booklet may be obtained in the United States from the
American Committee for Non-Participation in Japanese Aggress-
ion, 8.West 40th Street, New York City, at 15  a copy. They will
gladly cooperate in mailing booklets to addresses sent to them.
If the difficulties of transferring money to America make it
impossible to enclose remittances, send in names anyway. The
Committee will appreciate such lists and will endeavor to
supply, up to the limit of their resources, copies of this booklet or
other material to persons recommended from China.
IN JAPANESE AGGRESSION
8 West 40th Street
New York, N. Y.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
AMERICA'S SHARE
IN JAPAN'S WAR GUILT
This booklet has been reprinted by
a group of Americans for distribu-
tion among their fellow countrymen
in China in the hope that it will
lead them to realize afresh the ex-
tent to which our country is aiding
Japan and that it will move them to
take appropriate action.
AMERICAN COMMITTEE FOR NON-PARTICIPATION
IN JAPANESE AGGRESSION
8 West 40th Street
New York, N. Y.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
FOREWORD
A momentous issue of right and wrong confronts the people
of America. Shall we continue to be partners with Japan in her
unjustifiable invasion of Chinese soil or shall we refuse hence-
forth to furnish Japan with the materials of war? Japan is now
dependent upon the United States for one-half of her war sup-
plies.
We would not be accomplices in a crime in our local com-
munity. Why should we be accomplices in an international
crime? Why should American iron, 'American steel, American
oil, American copper, American chemicals, American aircraft
and motor trucks be used to destroy and kill in China?
There are honest differences of public opinion on what Amer-
ican foreign policy should be and on the methods that should
be followed in working for world peace. But would not the real-
ization of our present aid to militarist Japan lead all groups in
America to a common decision? Can we not say together-we
will not underwrite Japan's cruel war? We refuse to be Japan's
partner. We decline to help Japan build up a great military
and naval machine by which she can dominate Asia and threaten
America as well as the peace of the entire world. On the other
hand we stand ready to give every possible assistance to both
Japan and China in any programs of constructive economic de-
velopment which will beneft their own peoples and the peoples
of the world.
Upon such a platform we believe that all Americans who hate
war and who wish to "engage activily in the search for peace"
can unite. No further aid to Japan until she ceases her war of
aggression in China and agrees to a just and peaceable settlement
of all outstanding problems! This is definitcly a peace policy.
not a war policy. It is a road from war, not io war. We simply
withdraw from our part in Japan's war upon China. We do
what we can to hasten the end of hostilitics. We act to bring
an earlier peace in the Pacific. Whatever other nations may do.
our conscienccs then will be clear.
This is not only an international issue but is ver definitely a
national question. The United States Government is being
2

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
forced to spend billions for the construction and maintenance of
Big Navy because of the menace in the Pacific. It is idle to
pretend that our huge naval construction program is being
pushed because of threats from European navies. The threat
(omes from Japan. Yet we are not only arming Japan for her
aggression in China but also supplying a major share of materials
for Japan's naval construction program, compelling Congress
to enact such a measure as the $1.150,ooo,ooo Naval Expansion
Bill-money that is urgently nerded at home for flood control,
public works, slum clearance, housing projects, social security,
education, public health and the whole relief program.
The irony of it! We prepare to defend ourselves against those
whose sinews of strength for expansion come from our own
industries.
In thi- booklet the reader will find important and (hallenging
facts which revcal America's role in arming Japan and Americas
-hare in Japanese aggression on the Asia mainland. It raises an
issue that deserves the carnest consideration of every American.
The issue is cdear cuu for those who oppose war and seek peace.
Japan ould not continue her invasion of China another six
month, or continue as a potential menace to the security of
other nations without equipment, oil and other materials from
the U'nited States.
The time has come to preseni these facts to every man and
woman in the United States. If the American people becowe
fully ware of the part they are taking in the deliberate and
thiglitin! bombing of helpless civilians in China, the mad at
terpt to subjugate a great people, and the ambitious expansion
of i militaristic power. there is little doubt what they will say
or do. Americans will say, "Count us out." Ainericans will not
give further aid and encouragement to the aggressor. actual
and potential.
Not only must the information in this booklet be widel dis
seiminated but the moral conscience of America must expiess
Itself. We are committing a great wrong. We are virtual allies
of a nation whose nilitary polic and methods have reccived
wor! ndemnation We sumpathize deeply with the deluded
and  isied people ot Japan. We are their sincere friends. We
entertain no hatied tonand them. But we cannot condone the
a tion of thcir military party. and we must not economically
support wlat we morally conde.nn. To be indifferent or silent
8

=== Page 152 === (confidence 1.00)
now, to acquiesce in an intolerable international situation,
think selfishly of peace as only an American problem, is
strengthen the forces of greed and lawlessness among nations and
to increase the future perils to peace on the American continents.
Shall we say nothing and do nothing in the face of the known
facts about our share in the guilt? Then we betray humanity.
If the people of the United States know the facts, if their con-
sciences are deeply stirred, they will act and they will see that
their government acts. Japan then can no longer look to America
for the means of war. America then will cease to be a partner
of Japan in her barbarous attacks upon China.
The United States can do its part by refusing to give economic
support for war purposes to a country which is violating, as
Japan is, a solemn trcaty of peace with the United States.
China is making a magnificent struggle for liberty. The least
we can do is to withhold aid from her enemy. The democra ies
can stop war from spreading only by refusing absolutely to sup
port wars of aggression, only by refusing to share in thcir (víl
profits.
Let America act now and act quickly, for peace.
Americans in China can play a
strategic part in moving our
country to act thus for peace.
See page 76.
4

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
BOYCOTT BY DEMOCRACIES
COULD STOP JAPAN
U.S. Foreign Policy Associstion Views
Washington, Aug.28, 1938.
The Foreign Policy Association said
today that the United States could force
Japan to abandon her cempaign in China
by application of economic sanctions.
"It would be difficult, if not im-
possible for Japan to purchase elsewhere
the machinery, machine-tools, motor cars,
high grade steels, certain fuels and lub-
ricants available on the American market,"
the foreign affairs group said.
"Japan is particularly vulnerable
to restrictive action undertaken either
by the people or the Government of the
United States."
The study pointed out that the demo-
cracies of the Ünited States, Great Bri-
tain and the Netherlands furnish an aggre-
gate of 79.3 per cent of Japan's war ma-
terials in l937. The Assooiation said
that the refusal of the western Powers,
especially the United States, to furnish
supplies to Japan was the only alterna-
tive "to indefinite prolongation of hos-
tilities in the Far East."
"There is no prospect that Japanese
economic disabilities will prove decisive
in the near future. . . . China's new-
found political unity and military
strength may be relied upon to prevent a
speedy Japanese victory. . . and fore-
stall a compromise settlement on Japanese
terms." - United Press as quoted in
The North China Daily News.
5

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
OUR ASSISTANCE TO JAPAN
"The lamentable fact is that today the aggression of
Japan is being actively assisted by the efforts of men
of our own nation and men of the other great de-
mocracy in the world-the British Commonwealth of
Nations. It is not only being actively assisted, but our
assistance is so effective and predominant that without
it even today the aggression would in all probability
be promptly checked and cease.
"So I say that the first glaring fact which stares us
in the face in our analysis of the situation is that
China's principal need is not that something should
be done by outside nations to help her, but that out-
side nations should cease helping her enemy. Given a
situation in which the supply of munitions was only
somewhat less unequal, China's bravery has already
shown that Japan's task would be hopeless.
"In the light of these facts, the first question that I
should ask of the American and British peoples is:
Does the safety of the American nation and the safety
of the British Empire require that we go on helping
Japan to exterminate, by the methods she is daily em-
ploying, the gallant Chinese soldiers with which she is
confronted-not to speak of the civilian Chinese popu-
lation that she is engaged in terrorizing? Is the condi-
tion of our statesmanship so pitifully inadequate that
we cannot devise the simple means of international co-
operation which would stop our participation in this
slaughter? I for one do not think so. I bclieve that it
can be done, and done effectively, witho:tus
danger to us."
-HENRYSTIMSON,
former Secretary of State.
Excerpt from letter to New York Times,
October 6, 1937
6

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.98)
WHAT GOVERNMENT LEADERS
(ARE SAYING.
PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT:
"Without a declaration of war and without warning or justi-
fication of any kind, civilians, including women and children,
are being ruthlessly nmurdered with bombs from the air.... The
peace-loving nations must make a concerted effort in oppoșition
io those violations of treaties and those ignorings of humane in-
stincts which today are creating a state of international anarchy
and instability fronm which there is no escape through mere iso-
lation or neutrality."
-From address of October 5, 1937
on the World Political Situation.
CORDELL HULI., Se relary of State:
"Respect for law and observance of the pledged word have
sunk to an inconccivally low lvel. The outworn slogans of the
glorification of war are again resounding in many portions of the
globe. Armed fon e, naked and unashamed, is again being used
as an instrunent of poli: and a means of attaining national
ends throngh aggh ion and aggrandizement. It is being em-
ployed with brutality and savagery that outrage and shock every
humane instinct.
"There is a desperate need in our country, and in every coun-
try, of a strong and mmited public opinion in support of a re-
newal and demonstration of faith in the possibility of a world
order based on law and international cooperative effort. When
such public opinion las deve loped and when the momentous
issue of today-the t to! de ision as to whether relations among
nations shall be gov  ned ly au med force or by cooperation and
order under law-is cdeaily understood and visualized, there will
be no insuperable difh ulty in finding acceptable ways and means
of achieving the desired end."
-From address at Nashville, Tennessee,
June 3, 1938.
FraNcis B. SayRF, Issstant Secrelary of State:
"When for es of lawlessness are abroad, supine inaction in
effert mean, siding wih the evil againd the good: the strongest
7

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
encouragement which can be given lawless aggressors is to make it
quite clear that they have nothing to fear from those with pow
to withstand them. The United States cannot afford to bd
cipher at this crucial moment of the world's history. We must
be resolute and prepared if necessary to withstand the aggression
of the lawless. 'This does not mean desire for war. War is
evil incarnate But it means recognition of the fact that some
things are worse than fighting if fighting be in defense of life or
principles.
"I need scarcely add, in closing, that the general acceptance of
a code of law and morality among independent nations can never
be brought about through force, for this is essentially a thing of
the spirit. The task of the law abiding now is to save the world
from being delivered over into the hands of the lawless-to pre-
vent the shipwreck and annihilation of what we have been toil-
fully building for centuries."
-From an address before The American Society of
International Law, Washington, April 3o, 1938.
STANLEY K. HornBECK, Adviser on Political Relations, Depart-
ment of Stale:
"Without the concept of justice, pursuit of national interests
becomes simply effort toward national self-aggrandizement.
Without regard for justice in pursuit of national interests it
would be dificult indeed to conceive of peace as possible. ...
"There is warrant for believing that the present disruption of
international relations generally is due to à failure on ihe part
of some nations to realize that in relations between and among
nations national self-interest must, in the long run, be subordi-
nated to the claims of justice..
"To make principles effective in practice it is necessary that
peoples be committed, by personal uniderstanding and conviction,
io them.
"The first line of our national defense should be spiritual. It
should lie in character. It should lie in concepts, beliefs, faith,
conviction,-and in willingness to nake sacrifices-if necessary
even sacrifice of our own lives--in support of and in defense of
these.
-From address before the Chaplain's Association of the
Army of the United States, Washington, May 17, 1938.
8

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
WHAT MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
XRE SAYING...
SENATE RESOLUTION:
-Introduced by SENAToR KFY PITTMaN OF NEVaDA: Passrd
unenimously by the United States Senate on June 16. 1938.
Resolved, That the Senate record its unqualified condemnation
of the inhuman bombing of civilian populations.
SENATOR JAmES P. PopE of Idaho on:
AMERICAN AID TO JAPAN
"Mr. President, the American people are shocked at the con-
tinued Japanese barbarities in carrving out her campaign against
China. Our Government has protested against particular as
of violence, and we have clained damages for properties de
stroyed. America has joined other powers in these protests. It
is as well, however. for us to recognize the bitter fact that it is
America which is supplving 51-4 per cent of the materials abso
lutely necessary in order that Japan may continue her aggression
against China. It is doubtful whether Japan could get these
materials if we were not willing to supply them. 1 call vour
attention to the following table:
"United States' share in Japan's inports of essentials for war
purposes:
Commodity Class
Percentage (193)
Copper
92.9
Automobiles and parts
91.2
All oil
60.5
Pig iron
41.0
Other iron
59.7
Machinery and engines
Zinc
20.1
Total in aggregate.
511
"The following table is still more condlusive in its proot of the
fact that America is Japan's best support in the war against
China. The table shows the conuubution of the nine puncopal
countries towards Japanese aggression:
9

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLe 3A
CONTRIBUTION OF NINE PRINCIPAL COUNTRIES TO JAPAN'S
IMPORTS ESSENTIAL FOR WAR PURPOSES-BY COUNTRIES
(Value in Thousands)
1936
1937
Principal
Share in
Share in
Countries
Paluc*...
aggregate**
Value
aggregate
(yen)
(%)
(yen)
(%)
U.S.A.***
627,238
54.4
280,389
47.9
British Empire
201,496
17.5
116,454
19.9
Dutch India
84,913
7.4
46,827
8.0
Germany
43,434
3.8
21,872
3.7
Belgium
23,473
2.0
7,447
1.3
China
20,099
1.7
17,668
3.0
Soviet Union
12,528
2.2
Norway
2,931
.3
759
.1
Switzerland
179
.0002
1,952
.3
Total
1,003,764
87.1
505,896
86.4
"The interesting fact remains that while the United States
protests against the aggression of Japan in China, and while 95
to 99 per cent of the American people keenly feel the invasion of
China by Japan, yet the United States, by furnishing the neces-
sary war materials to Japan keeps her going in her war on China.
I think it is clear that if it were not for the materials which the
United States is furnishing Japan, this war of aggression would
be seriously hampered. What we ought to do about it is another
matter. Whether the Japanese embargo should be supported by
the Government may be a question. At any rate, the American
people ought to know that while they are longing for discontinu-
ance of the aggressive war upon China by Japan, we are making
it possible for Japan to carry on the war by the shipment of war
materials to Japan."
Senator Key PittmAn of Nevada:
"I believe the people, the churches and the pe:re societies of
the country have at last awakened to their duty in protesting
• Manchuria is excluded.
 Aggregate value of imports of 13 commodity classes: 1937-1,152,861,000
yen; 1936-585,015,000 yen.
U.S.A. includes Philippine Islands; British Empire includes Great
Britain, Canada, Australia, India, Malay, and British Borneo.
 Values for 1937 are approximate estimates.
10

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.98)
against military wrongs and against violation of the peace trea-
ties."
RepreseNTatIvE EmanueL Celler OF New York:
"Day after day the Japanese are mercilessly maiming and kill-
ing thousands upon thousands of women and children in China.
The news despatches brand Japan as one of the most despicable
and accursed of nations. We must wash away some of America's
guilt. We are also guilty because, despite our Neutrality Act, we
are supplying Japan with more than so per cent of her war
supplies in the form of oil, machinery, automobiles, scrap and
pig iron and such ingredients for her munition factories. Amer-
ican planes which dropped those bombs on Canton can only be
flown with American oil which we are supplying. Surely this is
one of the blackest pages in our American history."
SENATOR WiLLIAm D. KInG of Utah:
"It seems to me that there is at least a moral obligation if not
a legal obligation resting upon the United States, to denounce
the course of the Japanese Government in its invasion of China,
its destruction of cities and towns and villages, its murderous
assaults upon unoffending people, particularly women and chil-
dren, and its application, under the name of war, of the most
cruel, atavistic propensities, which found expression in the con-
duct of primitive races. The course of Japan is an anachronism.
It belongs not only to the Dark Ages, but to the darkest and
cruelest periods of human existence. We may not be justified
in becoming a party to the conflict; we may not be warranted in
trying to stay by military force the sanguinary and devastating
course of Japan; but certainly we owe it to ourselves and to the
future to lift our voices against the recrudescence of those fright-
ful and tragic ancestralisms which it was hoped the world had
abandoned and entombed in dishonored graves of the history
of the past.
"I do not believe that a denunciation of Japan's course would
lead to war. I cannot help but believe that if we and other
civilized nations were to brand Japan as a treaty violator, as an
outlaw, as a nation unworthy to be found in association with
nations that love peace and seek justice, instead of that course
being provocative of war, it would tend to modify the course of
the Japanese Government and restore it, if not to complete
sanity, at least to a condition in which there might be negotia-
11

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
tions looking to a termination of the frightful tragedy which is
now destroying hundreds of thousands of human beings and
devastating cities and towns and portions of a vast continent.
"I have referred to treaties existing between the United States
and Japan. Certainly our Government should be interested in
having treaties to which it is a party respected and its terms ob-
served. It certainly cannot be claimed that the duty rests upon
a nation party to a treaty to remain silent while other parties to
the treaty flagrantly violate its terms. Our Government, as well
as other governments, have interests in the Orient. China was a
party to treaties with the United States and other occidental na-
tions. These treaties were beneficial to China and were promo-
tive of trade and commerce, helpful to the Chinese people, and
more or less a benefit to those nations signatories to such treaties.
"Japan solemnly covenanted in the Nine Power Treaty to
respect the rights and territorial integrity of China. She bound
herself, as did other signatories to the same treaty, to respect
Chinese territory and the rights of the Chinese people. It was
not a unilateral treaty; it was a multilateral treaty, and each
party to the treaty obviously had some obligations resting upon
it. Japan has violated this treaty, as well as others. She has
contemptuously disregarded the rights of other signatories to the
treaty, and has invaded Chinese territory, and is waging one of
the most aggressive and sanguinary wars of which the pages of
history bear record. . . .
"I am repeating when I say we are warranted in prohibiting
any further shipments of munitions and military supplies and
commodities to be devoted to military purposes.'
SENator ArtHUr Capper of Kansas:
"The people of this country are indignant, shocked, filled with
righteous wrath over this inhuman and barbarous treatment of
non-combatants. And I feel that the people of this country ex-
pect the Senate to vindicate the rising indignation against these
nations which are running amok and threatening to plunge the
world fron civilization into the depths of barbarism.. .. It is
the dury of the Senate to condemn treaty violators; to condenn
the ruthless and wicked bombing of thousands of defenseless
men, women and children; to make plain to all the world our
abhorrence of such practices; and to disapprove the sale of Amer-
ican aircraft to countries which so flagrantly violate all the prin-
ciples of civilized warfare."
18

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.98)
SENATOR BENNETT CHAMP CLARK Of MissOuFI:
w "Does it not partake of a good deal of the nature of smug
hypocrisy for the Senatc . . . to deplore the use of bombs, par-
ticularly in the case of a certain Oriental nation, while we go on
day after dav selling for the profit of our own manufacturers and
our own prolucers the materials out of which the bombs are
made and the machines by which they are ued?"
SENATor ElBerT D. ThomAS of Utah:
"The spirit of America is for peace. The American people
condemn war and they condemn a resort to war..
"If the application of the Neutrality Act could by any flight
of the imagination stop the fighting, we might be forgiven in
attempting it. But it would not. It would be purely a unilateral
action which would not affect the fighting one whit. Under the
Neutrality Act both belligerents must be treated equally. By it,
ondemnation of both China and Japan would result. Impartial
neutralitv is a physical impossibility. If we do nothing, we help
the stronger. if we act impartially, we still help the stronger.
"No one in America would want to see us allied with either
of the combatant states; above all no one wants to see us aiding
the stronger of the two. But an application of the Neutrality
Act would do just that. If we should embargo the shipment of
arms we would not in any way affect the ability of the state with
plent of arms from continuing the war. If we refused to sell
to only those who could not come to get our products-Japan
only (ould buv our goods be ause no Chinese boat could get
past the Japanese Fleet. The American people would not stand
for taking sides in this way."
POLL OF CONGRESSIONAL SENTIMENT
WASHINGTON. June 21-Representative members of the
Senate and House. polled by The Christian Science Monitor,
show an entire willingness to support Secretary Hull's effort to
apply a voluntary embargo on shipment of American aircraft to
Japan. but an even greater desire to extend the embargo to a
wider range of exports.
-Christian Science Monitor.
13

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
WAR MATERIALS FROM AMERICA TO JAPAN
The war picture, so far as raw materials for war purposes are
concerned, is practically all Japanese. Scrap iron and steel is a
major item, and in 1937 the Japanese bought from the junk
yards of the United States 1,865,918 tons of old boilers, car
wheels, stoves, automobiles and other wrecked objects made of
iron or steel, for which they paid $35,462,ooo. In the first five
months of this year Japan's scrap iron and steel purchases have
amounted to 6go,o00 tons, for which was paid $11,632,000.
In these five months Japan's purchases of other raw materials
have included 466,ooo bales of cotton, the price of which was
$24,436,000; crude petroleum, 11,729,000 barrels, for $16,464,000;
automobile parts and accessories, $1,935,00o; steel ingots, sheet
bars, etc., not containing tungsten, $2,o32,o0o; pig iron, $2,166,-
000; motor fuel, $1,935,000; gas and fuel oil, $2,638,000, and
lubricating oil, $1,100,000.
When various other raw products, all of them essential war
materials, are added, the total of such purchases for the first five
months of this year amounts to about $73,ooo,ooo. In the corre-
sponding months of 1937 the total of these purchases was ap-
proximately $102,000,000.
Japan's total import trade from the United States in 1937 was
$288,oo0,ooo and of this it is a reasonable estimate that more
than $aoo,ooo,ooo was for raw materials Japan must have in
order to wage war against China. This year, it appears, the total
raw material bill will be considerably less than in 1937, prob-
ably about $150,000,000.
-New York Times,
July 24, 1938.
To us in China this trade is no matter
of abstract statistics; we have seen
its tragic results in the grim reality
of death and destruction. We must help
others to see it in the same light.
If we do not - who will?
14

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
SOME QUESTIONS
The extent to which the United States supplies Japan with
materials essential to her war of aggression, and the extent to
which the Japanese military machine must depend upon America
for these supplies are revealed in statements appearing else-
where in this pamphlet. The probable effectiveness of a policy
of non-participation in Japanese aggression and some of the
practical problems involved in such a policy are also discussed.
Thoughtful consideration of so far reaching a matter inevitably
raises some further questions. The purpose of this section is not
to deal with these questions fully but to suggest some conclusions
which seem reasonable in the light of recent history and of the
facts now at our disposal.
1. Is the United States now neutral?
Public sentiment and official pronouncements would seem to
put us on the side of China. But materially we are Japan's most
important and most indispensable ally. Japan possesses a mili-
tary-industrial plant capable of converting huge quantities of
raw materials into implements of death. China does not. By
furnishing the better part of the essential supplies for the main-
tenance and continued operation of this military machine, we are
making it possible for Japan to retain the superiority in equip-
ment which is her outstanding advantage over the defensive
forces of the Chinese. • By this means we are supporting Japan.
2. Would invocation of the Neutrality Act put the United States
in a neutral position?
No. Invocation of the Neutrality Act would leave us in the
position of supplying Japan with most of what she needs while
selling to China none of the arms and munitions that are vital
to her defense. It would therefore make us even more decisively
an ally of Japan. For while an embargo would be placed upon
munitions, Japan could still obtain here the raw materials and
machinery which are vastly more important to her than muni-
tions. Unlike China, she has a highly developed munitions
industry and could continue to use American raw materials to
cquip her mechanized army. She has a large merchant marine
for transporting these supplies.
The neutrality legislation was framed with a view primarily to
the European situation before the outbreak of the conflict in
15

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
China; it has been found unsuitable for application to the situa.
tion which has developed in the Far East.
3. Is it wise for us to do nothing?
Without a more positive American policy, at least to the extent
of withholding economic aid to Japan, the present conflict may
continue raging for years, becoming the most stupendous in all
history for its devastation and its toll in agony among millions
upon millions of peaceful civilians as well as among courageous
soldiers on both sides. The longer it continues, the vaster and
deeper will suffering become and the more insuperable will be
the problems which follow in its wake. To do nothing in the
face of such a situation seems callous. But actually to continue
support for the military machine which is responsible for this
devastation is morally indefensible.
Through a more definite attitude, the United States, by refus-
ing to support Japan's aggression, would make its enormous influ
ence felt on the side of justice and of a new and better interna-
tional order in the Pacific area-an order based upon mutual
respect, justice, security, and peace.
A positive policy now would still leave the United States in a
strong position to help in arranging a just peace when the war
is ended. Japan's greatest external dependence is upon America.
The resumption of trade and the reestablishment of friendly,
cooperative, and mutually helpful relations between the two
countries can be made contingent upon conditions of peace and
security for all.
4. What are the justifiable grounds on which the United States
can withhold economic assistance to Japan?
On humanitarian grounds the people of the United Statcs can
refuse to be party to a ruthless war of conquest over a great
peace loving people, or to the utterly inhuman acts which this
war has entailed. They can decline to furnish the oil, scrap iron.
airplanes and bombs needed for the slaughter of soldiers and
civilians who are struggling for national independence, and the
money needed for purchasing these supplies elsewhere. They can
show this much regard for a great nation whose citizens have
traditionally regarded Americans as their best friends.
Where and how American goods shall be sold abroad is a
matter for the American people to decide. While international
16

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
custom has prescribed that a recognized government in time of
war may import war materials from friendly nations, Japan's
claim to the benefit of this custom has been forfeited by her re-
peated violation and repudiation of treaty obligations to the
United States, to China, and to the other signatories of the Kel-
logg Pact and the Nine Power Treaty.
Action by the United States, therefore, can be on grounds that
America will withhold economic support for war purposes from
any nation which is in process of violating a solemn treaty of
peace to which it is a signatory with the United States. Such
an action would be a logical and reasonable consequence of such
treaty violation, not an unfriendly act taken on the initiative of
the Únited States. It would apply in the case of the Nine-Power
Treaty but not in the case of the Kellogg Pact, the terms of which
prevent such implementation as the above.
The American people acting individually, in groups, and
through their government can refuse to lend economic aid for
war purposes to a nation which is in the process of violating a
solemn treaty of peace to which the United States is a party.
Japan is clearly violating such a pact (the Nine-Power Treaty)
under which she bound herself with other signatories of the
treaty to respect the territorial and administrative integrity of
China.
On grounds of her own legitimate interests in peace and
security in the Pacific area, the United States can decline to
endorse or support a course of conquest by a regime which has
steadily undermined the foundations upon which any just inter-
national order must rest.
5. Do American interests and traditional policies warrant a policy
of non-participation in Japanese aggression?
For decades American Far Eastern policy has proceeded on the
assumption that the best interests of China, of America, and of
the world generally, would be served by a unified and inde-
pendent government in China. It is clear, propaganda to the
contrary, that an independent China will trade with the world,
while a conquered China will trade almost exclusively with Japan.
Maintenance of the right to participate in the trade of China on
terms of equality with other nations is an affirmed and reaffirmed
policy of the American Government.
Our Government has also repeatedly declared its interest in law
and order, in peace and the maintenance of international obliga-
87

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
tions. These intangibles have figured especially prominently in
our Far Eastern policies.
These policies reflect a concern not only with trade but also
with the future of American security in case the great Chinese
people become the pawns of another power. Some Americans
fear the consequences of Japanese domination in China. The
surest means for bringing this to pass is to continue supplying
Japan liberally with the means for conquest. Some Americans,
with less cause, perhaps, fear Russian domination in China. The
surest road to this is for all the other powers except Russia to
remain aloof while Japanese aggression in China continues. This
would bring about a growing feeling among the Chinese people
that they have nowhere else to turn but to the powerful neighbor
on their north and west. Most congenial to the American out-
look would be an independent China whose people are free to
choose their own destiny. The stopping of American assistance to
the Japanese military regime would be an important step in the
direction of helping to maintain an independent China-a China
ready and eager to cooperate with the United States of America.
From the standpoint of domestic interests, huge sums are now
being expended upon naval armaments which would be unneces
sary but for the potential threat of Japan to the security of all
countries in the Pacific area. The burden thus levied upon
American taxpayers is many times greater than any temporary
losses involved in a cessation of our present war trade with Japan.
It is inconsistent with our own interests to supply to Japan the
sinews of war and then to spend huge sums in order to counteract
the growth in aggressive power which we are helping to make
possible.
6. Is Japan clearly the aggressor in the present conflict?
The fact that the conflict is being waged on Chinese soil is in
itself an answer to this question, rendering hollow the Japanese
militarists' claim of self-defense. Anti-Japanese feeling in 'China
is a consequence of Japanese encroachments. By inpartial third
parties, Japan's aggression has been repeatedly recognized.
Since the occupation of Manchuria in 1931-g2, which was
stigmatized by unanimous vote of the League of Nations as an
unwarrantable act of military force, Japan has steadily enlarged
the scope of its encroachments on China. This process continued
between 1932 and 1937, by dint of threats backed by military
18

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
force. Especially was this true in North China when Jehol,
Chahar and East Hopei were successively drawn into the orbit
of Japanese domination.
In July, 1937, despite all efforts by the Chinese Government,
the Japanese military authoritics used the manufactured Marco
Polo Bridge "incident" near Peiping to start a general invasion
of China. Once again the League of Nations has recognized the
subsequent hostilities as a case of aggression by asking League
members to render aid to China. Both now and in 1931-32, the
American Government has adopted the same attitude as the
League. In response to a recent Congressional request, the State
Department included Japan among treaty-violating nations.
7. Is there a serious danger that the culting off of economic assist-
ance to Japan might l-ad to war?
Even before the outbreak of hostilities, Japan's economic condi
tion was bccoming serious. The present war, spreading over an
enormous area and being waged against seemingly limitless man
power and an altogether unexpected determination on the part
of the Chinesc people, is already placing the Japanese Govern-
ment and military command in a desperate position; this is re-
flected in unprecedented efforts to break Chinese morale by
means of aercal bombings and in a tightening of every control
at home. Acute strain is becoming evident in Japan's financial
and conimercial structure, due not only to the war itself, but also
to Japan's utter dependence upon foreign markets and foreign
sources of supply. japan, it seems, has already attempted more
than her home economy can support.
Meanwhile, Japan's military leaders have had to face a discon-
certing change in the balance of forces in the Pacific area. Japan's
armament program after the invasion of Manchuria was matched
by a growth in the Far Eastern defences of Great Britain, Russia,
and France and in the naval power of America. Now that Japan's
military strength is spending itself in China, the balance is turn-
ing against her. While she becomes weaker, these nations, whose
interests are opposed to those of Japan in China, are becoming
stronger. Among these nations none possesses greater resources.
a greater industrial plant, and greater financial and commercial
power than the United States.
Japan, meanwhile, is entirely dependent upon sources of supply
which other nations. unsympathetic with her aggressive aims, can

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
control. Even her navy could not operate for long without
replenishment of oil and other essential supplies from abroad.
It is believed, therefore, that a policy on the part of the United
States of non-participation in Japanese aggression, while further
weakening Japan's capacity for war, would bring to the Japanese
an increased realization of the grave situation toward which their
present course is leading. Instead of initiating a war, it is be-
lieved that this simple policy of non-cooperation would prove to
be a curb, far more effective than verbal protests, to Japanese
militaristic expansion, at a moment when such a curb can be
applied with a minimum of cost to ourselves.
It is not likely that Japan's militarist leaders would be so rash
as to attempt reprisals against the United States. They recognize
that, if they cannot readily win a war against China in their own
backyard, they cannot dream of wandering afield, when eco-
nomically exhausted, in order to engage in conflict the strongest
power in the world. War with the United States at this time
would mean a certain end to their dream of becoming a great
world power.
There is no historical support for the supposition that an
American embargo on war materials to Japan would lead to
war. An embargo by Russia and an effective stoppage of war
supplies from France to Japan have not done so.
It is reasonable, moreover, to believe that a policy of non-
cooperation now would involve far less risk of war than a con-
tinuation of the support which we are rendering to Japan.
8. Is it conceivable that an American policy of non-cooperation
might lead to an invasion of the Philippines?
Japan has already learned that invasion means the surrender
of trade with the invaded market and the antagonizing of the
invaded population. Thus China, Japan's most important mar-
ket, has been crippled for many years to come. The Philippines
have become an export market more important to Japan than
ever before since they yield revenues essential for the financing of
the present war. It is most unlikely that Japan will want to
sacrifice such revenues at her present critical financial juncture.
Another factor not to be neglected is that Japan has political
ambitions in the Philippines, and she knows that a physical
invasion at this time would permanently alienate masses of people
whom she is now trying to win for her position. Finally, even if
20

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
she were to be deprived of war materials from the United States,
she would not be willing to lose the last cent derived from her
enormous exports to this country; or from her commerce through
the Panama Canal. Both exports to this country, and trade with
Europe and Latin America through the Panama Canal, would
naturally be closed to her once she did such a rash and provoca-
tive thing. In general, Japan realizes that in the present balance
of world forces she is a world power only in the Far East and that,
outside the Sea of Japan, the vast superiority of the western
powers renders them immune to offensive action on her part.
9. Why is there a danger that our continued support to Japan
would lead to war?
Because, by supplying Japan with over half of the materials
needed from abroad for her vast expansionist program, we are
contributing to an indefinite prolongation of the present conflict,
with the continuous threat to international peace which this
involves. We are making it more possible for the military rulers
of Japan to continue their grandiose dream of complete domina-
tion in Asia, with enormous new resources and manpower under
their control. We are making more possible an ultimate Japa-
nese victory which, without our aid, could not be achieved.
A partial or complete victory for Japan in the end would pro-
duce an international situation more unstable than any which has
heretofore existed in the Pacific area. It would further strengthen
and consolidate the control which military leaders now have over
the Japanese government and nation thus postponing any change
in national policies which might result with the rise to power of
more liberal elements. The great ballast for peace which exists
with an independent China would be lost.
It is a foregone conclusion that the Japanese militarists, en-
trenched as overlords of Asia, would proceed to develop to
gigantic proportions the military and naval power of the Empire.
Now relatively weak they would then become genuinely strong.
As a vast militaristic empire they would be capable of threatening
the peace and security of the world for years-possibly generations
to come.
If a Japanese victory is achieved and consolidated, the Empire
will still be far from self-sufficient; there is little reason to doubt
that the newly won strength will be used to back up fresh
81

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
demands for raw materials and markets and political controls in
other areas where American interests are deeply involved.
A Japanese victory, moreover, would encourage and strengthen
the hands of aggressive powers elsewhere. Instead of being dis
credited, aggresion as an instrument of nationalistic policy would
be further established. Its success in this instance would lend
new impetus to the growing rule of force in the present-day
world.
10. Would a stoppage of American economic aid to Japan be
effective?
Some essential materials, as indicated in articles which follow,
can be secured only from the United States. Particularly im-
portant among these are machinery and machine tools, special
steels and lubricating oils which are necessary for the operation
of industries-especially heavy industries-with standardized
American equipment. If the entire supply of other materials
from America were cut off, it would be difficult, if not impossible,
to get anywhere near sufficient quantities from elsewhere. Ger-
many and Italy could not supply Japan with what she needs,
even if they wished to do so. Purchases from Russia and France
are already checked. In Great Britain, public opinion would
render exceedingly difficult any governmental policy which ap-
peared to run counter to that of other powers in the Far East,
particularly if the United States were to stop furnishing economic
aid to the Japanese for the duration of the war.
In the total complicated balance of forces which exist in a
major conflict, a stoppage of American economic aid to Japan
now, would count heavily on the side of restraint for aggression.
11. What positive results may reasonably be expected from a
policy of non-cooperation with Japanese aggression?
A more speedy end to the war; an end to Japanese expansion
at the expense of the Chinese and of other peoples; a reduction
of the tax burden levied upon the American people for naval
armaments; a probable change in the Far Eastern balance of
power whereby China would emerge independent and free to
cooperate with other powers; a discrediting of the military regime
in Japan and the rise of a now repressed liberal element to a new
degree of influence; a general discrediting of military aggression
in this day as a means to nationalistic expansion; an earlier begin-
8

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
ning of reconstruction in China and Japan; and an earlier restora-
xion of peaceful trade and international security in the Pacific
area.
12. Would American industry and commerce sustain serious losses
by an embargo on munitions and war materials to Japan?
It has been stated that the two industries most affected would
lose the equivalent of approximately a week's work during the
year through a cessation of the Japanese war trade. This is a
price that would have to be paid as our contribution toward
peace and toward our own future security. Compared with the
loss in trade which has already taken place and which will increas
ingly occur in the Orient as a result of continuance of the war,
this loss is small. Compared to the price we are now paying
through taxation for the expansion of naval armaments in the
Pacific, it is also small.
It is to be hoped that the United States will be willing to sacri-
fice that minute portion of its prosperity which now comes from
traffic and connivance in the suffering and sorrow of innocent
civilians, and that those who now benefit from such traffic will
be willing to take a longer and larger view of their responsibilities
and opportunities. It is to be hoped that, where possible, means
may be found to compensate for losses incurred.
A great future compensation will come with the resumption
of peaceful trade and with the expansion of investment and
market opportunities which friendly relations with an inde-
pendent China will insure. Moreover, resumption of peaceful
trade would restore our Japanese market for cotton, lumber and
other commodities which, unlike the trade in war essentials, are
permanently important to us, and which Japan has curtailed in
order to be able to continue buying military necessities.
13. Would a stoppage of economic aid to Japan tend to engender
hatred for the Japanese people?
There is a widespread and justified appreciation for many
admirable qualities of the Japanese people. It is in no spirit of
hatred for them that a policy of non-cooperation with Japanese
military leaders is being discussed. To the contrary, there is a
realization that the war which these leaders have engendered is
extremely burdensome to the common people of Japan, and that
it is to their interests that the conflict be brought to an early end.
23

=== Page 172 === (confidence 1.00)
The cessation of economic assistance, now, would not be an
injury to the Japanese people but to the capacity of military
leaders to continue waging aggressive war in China. The people
of the United States may well look forward to the time when
the Japanese people, the civilian population, in control of their
own destinies, can face their very difficult problems of internal
reconstruction. When such a time comes, it is to be sincerely
hoped that the United States will be ready to furnish liberal aid
and cooperation.
14. What would be the effect of such a policy upon the people of
China?
It would check the injury to the Chinese people which is inher
ent in our economic assistance to their aggressors. It would re-
establish the faith of the Chinese in the goodwill and integrity of
the American people. The failure of the United States to take
any positive action in connection with the present desperate con-
flict has been and is being interpreted in China as evidence of
American weakness and insincerity. On the one hand we, indi-
vidually and collectively, protest our friendship for the Chinese
people and our allegiance to principles of international peace and
justice; on the other hand we continue to supply to Japan enor-
mous stores of materials which are converted into implements of
death in order to line our own pockets by this doleful traffic. The
Chinese have traditionally liked and respected America; mutual
bonds of friendship have prevailed. A policy of non-coopera-
tion with Japanese aggression now would serve to restore and
strengthen this relationship.
15. How would such an embargo affect the world economic situa-
tion?
By helping to bring the war to an end, it would make possible
an earlier restoration of international economic relations with
which the interests of the United States are inextricably inter-
woven.
16. How would such an embargo affect the international political
situation?
As a contribution toward an ending of the present conflict, it
would also be a positive step toward paving the way for a peace
in which aggression would be outlawed. We would be doing our
part now in a more courageous and realistic way toward laying
new foundations for world peace.
24

=== Page 173 === (confidence 1.00)
17. What can America's contribution be toward the establishment
of a new era of international cooperation in the Pacific area?
A negative contribution can be that of firmness in refusing to
provide further assistance to Japan for her invasion of China. In
a definite way this would help to restore the prestige and sanctity
of international obligations.
More positively, the people of the United States have it in their
power to inject into international relations in this area a new
and broadened perspective based upon equality and mutual
advantage for all nations. They can think and work in behalf
of a new Pacific order in which justice rather than force will
prevail. The negative and positive contributions are necessary
to each other.
Specifically, the United States, when the opportune time comes,
can participate in liberalizing international economic relation-
ships, in laying the groundwork for a new economic stability and
security, in favoring political adjustments which permit to the
Chinese people a chance to work out their own destiny, in build-
ing a new machinery for peaceful change and developing means
for preventing the violent overturn of this machinery, and in
reducing thus the haunting fear of new, destructive wars. Only
on such foundations can a new era of international peace, pros-
perity and goodwill be inaugurated.
We Americans in China can move
thousands of our countrymen to
bring pressure upon our Govern-
ment to act thus for peace.
85

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
WHAT EDITORS AND WRITERS
ARE SAYING ...
U. S. ON THE SIDE OF LAW AND ORDER
"Though the United States has lived for two years under a
Neutrality Act which expresses its wish to remain at peace, the
American people are not neutral now in any situation involving
the risk of war, nor will they remain neutral in any future situa-
tion which threatens to disturb the balance of world power. ...
"In the case of China's fight for self-existence against Japanese
aggression, American sentiment is tapped by loyalties which come
readily to the surface. We sympathize instinctively with the
underdog. We cherish a special and long-standing friendship
with the Chinese people. We resent the ruthlessness of Japan's
attack. We are not ashamed of a frank commercial interest in
desiring the continuation of the Open Door.
"These considerations are responsible for the fact that Ameri-
can opinion has willingly supported Mr. Roosevelt in the main-
tenance of the elaborate fraud that no "war" exists-since a
finding that "war" is actually in progress would compel us to
invoke sections of the Neutrality Act which would react to the
disadvantage of China as against Japan.
"This is the first consequence of American unneutrality in the
Far East. But something more decisive is involved in this dispute.
We have cast our choice of sides in this dispute. We have cast
our influence in advance of an ultimate decision on the soil
of China, against any possibility that Japan will profit from
this adventure with our approval or support.
"We will not recognize as valid Japan's claim to one square
foot of Chinese territory conquered by force of arms. We will
not facilitate, through such recognition, the development of a
new code of property rights which would encourage the invest-
ment of foreign capital. We will not permit our own capital
to go to the aid of Japan in making her conquest a paying ven-
ture. The American banker or the American industrialist who
dared to propose American participation in any plan to develop
the resources of China under Japanese administration would
find the opinion in this country overwhelmingly against him.
To that extent at least, we have aligned ourselves with China
in her present struggle. ...
26

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
'There is reason to believe that. . . an effort to repeal the
Neutrality Act will succeed in reaching its objective when Con-
gress reconvenes. Certainly that result is greatly to be desired,
not only because it would liberate the foreign policy of the
United States from the effects of a law which attempts to pre
scribe a fixed course of action in every possible emergency, re-
gardless of when and how that emergency may arise and what its
effect on our own interests may be, but also because repeal of
the law would at least permit the material resources of the
United States to count on the side of international law and
order. . . ."
—From editorial, "A Way of Life,"
June 15, 1938. New York Times.
MUST AMERICA ABET BOMBING?
"For several days this newspaper has run quotations in this
space reporting the results of civilian bombing in- China and the
share America has in it through the supplying of war materials,
particularly aircraft. Our purpose has been to widen and clarify
an appreciation of this relationship. Our hi pe has been that
when clearly seen this role would be rejected by the moral sense
of the American people. We believe it is so rejected. But there
remains the task of making that moral rejection effective and
dissolving America's partnership with bombers.
"Three principal ways of proceeding present themselves:
"1. Governmental pressure. Secretary Hull has voiced the hope
that American aircraft manufacturers will refrain from shíp-
ments to Japan. The June figures on plane exports may show
how effective this plea has been. But the survey made by the
Monitor discloses a marked silence on the part of several big
plane manufacturers as to their attitude and action. Despite
the highly commendable sentiments of some plane makers the
impression remains that those who are doing a good business
will not be stopped by intimations of State Department wishes.
"It should be noted that Mr. Hull's statement was not a direct
or formal request made to plane manufacturers but a hope ex-
pressed in the press. Judged by past experience much more
definite pressure will be required if the United States is to
cease being Japan's chief aid in the bombing business. State
Department hints of a similar kind did not prevent America
being a supply base for Italy in Ethiopia or both sides in Spain.
7

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
"2. Governmental embargoes. Without action of Congress any
embargoes would have to be applied under the Neutrality Act
and would shut off supplies to China as well as Japan. The
State Department makes a good case to show that they would
injure the aggressee more than the aggressor. Those who are not
concerned about which is the aggressor and are determined only
that America shall have no part in war make a good case for
embargoes to end supplies to both sides.
"3. Voluntary measures by individuals and groups. The most
effective moves of this kind have been taken by dock workers and
sailors who have refused to handle war supplies for Japan. On
Friday the Monitor carried an account of the resolution adopted
by the Waterside Workers' Federation in Melbourne, refusing to
load tin clippings which might be used for "war and the ruth-
less slaughter of non-combatants." Similar action has been
taken by other dock workers in Australia and England.
"In the United States there have been only sporadic efforts of
this kind, and they have not been effective in stopping American
supplies for Japan. So far as we have heard there has been no
movement among stockholders or employees of aircraft com-
panies to curb this business. Others who have neither profits
nor wages to lose should be slow to take a holier-than-thou atti-
tude. They might offer to share the sacrifice by some form of
compensation for orders rejected.
"There is also the argument, 'If we don't supply them some-
body else will.' But that will not be persuasive with men and
women who are deeply moved by a moral revolt against being
accessories to civilian bombing. And if the moral position be-
comes clearer, hands will cease to carry out an evil the heart
condemns. Despite all the obstacles there can be no doubt that
if conscience becomes sufficiently awakened it will find ways to
stop American aid to civilian bombing. Effective action by
private and governmental agencies awaits only such awakening."
-Christian Science Monitor.
DISASTROUS DEFEAT IN FOREIGN RELATIONS
"It would be the most disastrous defeat in the history of
America's participation in world affairs if, just as we are coming
within reach of the evolutionary, non-revolutionary liberation of
China foreseen by John Hay and guarded as an article of faith
in our Far Eastern policy ever since, we should bring it to abor-
8

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.98)
tion by lending our money, our industry, and our political
influence to the uses of Japan."
-OWEN LATTIMORE,
Atlantic Monthly, July, 1938.
MEANS CAN AND MUST BE FOUND
"The time has come for a fresh address to the question of sell-
ing war materials to Japan-either munitions or materials essen-
tial to munitions. For one thing, no legal rationalizing, no
philosophical detachment can blur the realization that the
United 'States is and has been for a year accessory after the fact
of a war of invasion, a war carried on with a maximum of
cruelty, in violation of every article of even the elastic moral
code of war. Nor does aquittal at law absolve America from
responsibility for the result. Moreover, in supplying Japan with
the means of attempting to conquer China, America has been
conniving at its own detriment. What has happened to foreign
interests at Peiping, Tientsin, Shanghai, foreshadows the fate of
American interests in the event of Japanese victory. Further-
more, with the rapid exhaustion of Japanese reserves Japan be-
comes increasingly dependent on American sources of supply
and by so much vulnerabie to American decision on continued
purveyance. Increasingly then, America becomes Japan's ar-
moury, for the forging of weapons in the long run directly against
itself. It should renounce the role.
"The mechanism of the law is an obstacle. Official embargo
may still not be practicable. But it is necessary to begin to
canvass possibilities for bringing about a cessation of the flow
of materials to Japan without contravening the law or definitive
new legislation. Provisions for licensing arms shipments offer
one means. The kind of pressure that can be levied by the
government to prevent loans to foreign governments is another,
if levied in the matter of sales of munitions or materials for
munitions. There is still a third. The same end can be achieved
as a matter of reprisals.
"There has been ample ground for reprisals in the past. There
will be others in the future. Japan already stands as violator
of contractual obligations to the United States. Japan has broken
the Nine Power Treaty and the Kellogg Pact. Japan has com-
mitted open offenses such as the sinking of the Panay. It is
within the right and the power of the American government on
the occasion of every derogation of American rights or offense
s9

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
against American persons or property to declare by executive
order or congressional resolution that in reprisal therefor the
export of some commodity will be forbidden. If the Japanese
refuse to permit Americans to return to Nanking, as it actually
does in complete violation of all treaty rights, America retali-
ates by shutting off the supply of copper. If Japan refuses to
evacuate American property such as hospitals, colleges and mis-
sions-as it does-America shuts off the supply of iron. If Japa-
nese officials announce that extra-territorial rights are not valid
for Americans in zones under Japanese occupation, thus unilater-
ally abrogating treaties between China and the United States,
America shuts off the supply of automobiles. If Japanese military
refuse to permit Americans to return to their places of business
in the Hongkew and Yangtzepoo districts of Shanghai, as they
do, the supply of something else is shut off. There will be ample
opportunity. The offenses of Japan, offenses under international
law, are infinite. It is necessary only to read half a dozen issues
of the North China Daily News. The dossier of the Department
of State must be of prodigious thickness. The means are less
important than the end, which is that America must cease being
the provisioner of the Japanese army in an aggression abominable
in itself and working toward America's injury. The means can
be found and they must be found. And organized efforts must
be made to find them and to have them put into effect."
—NathanieL PeffEr, Amerasia
(from August issue by permission).
AMERICA'S GIFT TO AGGRESSORS
"At first American business asked for prepayment in full be
fore accepting orders (for munitions to Japan) but when the de-
pression deepened, the 'cash with order' policy was modified.
Orders were accepted on the basis of 4o per cent down and the
rest on delivery. Now there is talk of a $5o,ooo,ooo credit to
Japan for purchases here.
"Meanwhile Japan's war orders which brought a measure of
prosperity to the war traders have resulted in a great decline in
cotton sales, evening out the score for business as a whole. Of
one thing there can be no doubt, however, and that is the
United States is an important factor in keeping the Japanese
Juggernau: rolling."
—H. C. EngilBrecht, The Nation.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
AMERICA MAKES INVASION POSSIBLE
"An arms embargo against Japan would have almost immedi-
ate effect. Washington's tender consideration for the murderous
Japanese is unjustified. The American Government not only
supports the aggressor but makes the continued invasion pos
sible. Military experts in Europe and the United States have
declared that Japan would have to withdraw her troops from
China if American imports to Japan were stopped."
-Ludwic Lore, New York Post.
OUR NATIONAL STAKE IN CHINESE RESISTANCE
"We cannot pretend to be uninterested in the creation of a
Japanese empire which might extend from Siberia to Singapore.
We have, over and above our abstract sympathies, a great na-
tional stake in the Chinese resistance. For we know quite well
that only the Chinese can hope to stop the Japanese in Asia,
and what we can do to encourage them, short of war, we shall
be disposed to do."
—Walter Lippman, New York Herald-Tribune.
THE WORLD AND THE VICTOR
"The world, then, has these possibilities to face. Which would
be the better victor, speaking for the world, Japan or China?
It seems to me immeasurably to the benefit of the human race
that China be victorious. . .. If Japan wins, she will become
not only a first class power but a superpower, holding in her
hands the Orient. Her swollen pride will immediately lead her
to further conquest. She will think of territory and of power un-
matched since the days of the Roman Empire. The victory of
Japan will mean a great deal more than the victory in this war.
It will mean the triurmph in the Orient of the imperialistic and
fascistic ideas of a militarist nation. It will mean ihat the world
must immediately see to it that armament is matched for arma-
ment to an even greater extent than now, for further wars will
be inevitable. . . . The kind of thinking the Chinese have done
for centuries has produced a human being less dangerous to
society than the one produced by Japanese thinking. If Japan
wins, let the world prepare for further strife and aggression or,
if not these, at least for constant conflict. If China wins, we
may hope for peace."
—PeARL Buck, in Asia Magazine.
81

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
IF CHINA WINS, AMERICA WINS. WHY ARM JAPAN
'That the inhumanity of Japan's monstrous aggression in
China is abhorrent to every self-respecting man and woman is
clearly evident in the world reaction to the undeclared war now
raging on Chinese soil. But there is still doubt in many minds
as to the real significance of China's fight for us and for the
rest of the world. China is fighting not only a defensive war to
retain its national integrity; it is fighting to preserve for us and
the rest of the world an Open Door to legitimate trade and
commerce with its four hundred million people.
"The American people must recognize the fact that if Japan
gains its objectives in China the doors of the Far East will be
shut tight. American high standards of living depend to a large
degree upon a world open to all on a free and equal basis. In
supplying Japan with large quantities of its munitions require-
ments, we become a silent partner in a war against China which
is fighting to preserve its independence, a condition which con-
stitutes the basis of our whole Far Eastern policy. On the other
hand, a victory for China is a victory for everything that America
has stood for in the Far East for half a century. Why then do we
aid Japan to make that victory difficult if not impossible?"
-PHILIP J. JAFFE,
Managing Editor of "Amerasia."
AN UNSAVORY ALLIANCE
"The renewed bombing of open Chinese cities following :he
establishment of a Cabinet in Tokyo dominated by extremists
calls for a re-examination of the undeniable facts of American
aid to the Japanese war machine. The extent of American eco-
nomic participation has hitherto been generally underestimated.
A recent careful study of the Japanese cconomy, the most ex-
haustive yet attempted. shows that in recent months the United
States has supplied no less than 54.5 per cent of the war materials
essential to the Japanese invasion of China. Only in very small
part have these consisted of actual munitions of the type covered
by the Neutrality Act. The one exception is in the field of
aircraft. The United States contributed $1,ooo,ooo worth of
planes and parts to Japan in April alone.
"Far more important, however, from the standpoint of Japanese
military efficiency are the huge shipments of American scrap
iron, oil, copper, and machinery. Before the war Japan's imports
32

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
from the United States consisted primarily of raw materials for
its textile industry-cotton and wood pulp. In the past year these
commodities have practically dropped out of the picture as Japan
has concentrated on primary military necessities. April saw 40
per cent of our petroleum exports and 4o per cent of our copper
exports go to Japan. Many of the American airplanes used in
bombing Chinese cities can only be flown with American high-
grade gasoline. Scarcely a week passes without the shipment of
three or four cargoes of scrap iron and steel from New York
alone. The development of Japanese heavy industry for war
purposes has also brought a tremendous increase in the purchases
of iron and steel products. In 1937 Japanese steel imports from
this country rose to nearly a million tons, an eighteen-fold in-
crease over the previous year. Machine exports, which are the
foundation of Japan's future strength, have likewise skyrocketed.
Last year contracts were signed for the sale of three complete con-
tinuous sheet-and-strip mills, the most efficient equipment of its
kind to be found in the world.
"The most effective weapon for destroying America's partner
ship with Japan in the rape of China is the consumers' boycott.
Japan cannot buy if it cannot sell, and the United States stil
absorbs some 25 per cent of Japanese exports. The boycott is
unquestionably growing in scope and effectiveness. Reports from
New England, the South, and the Middle West testify to its
increasing popularity. It is in large measure responsible for the
45 per cent decline in imports from Japan in the first four months
of this year as compared with the corresponding period of a year
ago. Silk, the most crucial of these imports, dropped 31 per cent
in quantity and 4o per cent in value in the first quarter of the
year.
"The refusal of longshoremen and sailors to load or carry war
supplies to Japan offers another promising method of stopping
American aid. If carried out by the United States alone, the effect
would be unimportant, since Japan could shift most of its orders
elsewhere. But the longshoremen of England, France, the Scandi-
navian countries, and Australia have already indicated their will-
ingness to participate in united labor sanctions. There are strong
intimations that some of the American unions are already pre-
pared to tie up shipments of war materials if they can be assured
of general support, and the resolution adopted by the executive
committee of the Federal Council of Churches last week indicates
that this support will be forthcoming. But it is important that
33

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
neither longshoremen nor hosiery workers should be asked to
bear the brunt of the responsibility. The rank and file of the
people who hate war must share the burden to the extent of
providing a peace chest for persons thrown out of work by either
lorm of boycott. If this is done adequately and efficiently, there
is no reason to fear that labor will not do its part. The price is
a trivial one if it severs this country's unhappy alliance with the
war-makers."
-The Nation.
DEATH IS A COMMODITY
"Some American oil companies are sure missing a good bet.
They ought to advertise: "Whose oil is used in Jap airplanes
bombing Canton? Ours. Whose gasoline? Ours. Buy from us
and know you're buying a tested product."
"Yessir, let's be generous with recognition. Let's give every
seller of scrap iron a medal (appropriately made of scrap iron)
with this motto on it: "Death is a Commodity."
"Let's no longer criticize United States munitions makers, for
they can prove they have been fair-that is, they've sold to both
sides. The nationality of the corpse never interests them; it's
just his killer's credit rating.
"Brother, remember what a good time you had in your old
jallopy you drove in 193o? Those Sunday drives? The picnics?
Pretty mean of me to bring that up. But the scrapped brake-
drum of that old pleasure boat just finished off a mother and
her five children in Canton, China, two days ago. How's your
family?"
-CAL TINNEY, Columnist.
JAPAN'S GHASTLY TACTICS
"In taking steps to discourage the sale of airplanes to Japan,
because of the campaign of frightfulness waged by that country
against the helpless populations of Canton and other Chinese
cities, Secretary Hull will have the warm approval of the great
majority of Americans.
"It is apparent that mere verbal protests by the United States
and other nations against the bombing of undefended cities,
34

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
whether in Spain or China, have no immediate effect. Certainly
the Japanese warlords have not been deterred by such protests
from continuing to vent their sadistic fury on Canton, where
the death toll from repeated air raids now runs into many
thousands. More drastic measures are obviously called for to
give point to the civilized world's disapproval of such ghastly
tactics.
"The United States and other nations that have expressed
their deep disapproval of air raids on civilian centers would
be open to charges of hypocrisy if. at the same time, they should
continue to send to the offenders the means whereby such out-
rages can be committed."
-Washington Post.
OUR STRANGE NEUTRALITY ACT
"Our strange neutrality act continues to breed strange conse-
quences. . .. As The Nation wisecracked, it is admirably designed
to keep us out of the last war. The President was dissatisfied
with this act at the time of passage, but he didn't put up the
fight against it that he might have. We wish he had; wish it
more as the effects of this law become more grotesque.
"Altogether, our Neutrality Law is building toward a terrific
blowup in our faces. We'd better repeal it as soon as we can,
and drop these well-meant but futile efforts to outguess the
future."
-New York Daily News.
America-Japan's arsenal.
35

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
WHAT CHURCH LEADERS ARE SAYING ..
THE JAPANESE TURN TO AMERICA
FOR SINEWS OF WAR
"An observer with considerable first-hand knowledge of China
writes from Hankow that the Japanese would like to quit but
cannot do so without losing face. Japanese officers, he says, are
refusing to obey their high command and materials of war com-
ing from Japan are said to be below par, due presumably to
the fact that the country lacks raw materials. It is stated further
that they would have been compelled to withdraw from China
were it not for the materials they have been receiving in increas-
ing amounts from the United States. We shipped them $85,000
in arms in October last year, with the amount steadily rising until
in February we shipped them $1,184,000 worth.
'The Japanese militarists had planned for a two months cam-
paign, believing they would be able to conquer China in that
time. Sufficient oil had been stored to carry on for that period.
When the supply was exhausted they turned to us and got 25
million gallons. The next month they got 105 million gallons
and the next 337 million gallons. Óne steel company alone
shipped them 844,ooo tons of steel in four months. We shipped
them more iron in the last four months of 1937 than in the
previous six years. Shipments of scrap iron tripled in a year.
First we demanded cash, on the theory that otherwise we would
become involved in the war. Our money-makers then decided
that it would be safe to ask for but 40% payment in cash; now
there is talk of a huge credit pool so that we can continue to
send the instruments of war to Japan with no cash payments.
All of which is done in spite of a so-called policy of neu-
trality....
"People say it does no good to write letters to the President; to
Secretary of State Hull; to Congressmen; to Senators. It does.
The Senate's Civil Liberties Committee received its appropriation
to carry on its work last week, largely because of letters re-
questing it. No shipments of the instruments of war, and the
materials out of which munitions are made, to Japan would stop
their aggression in a short time. Present your demands to your
servants in Washington and thus help save China for the
Chinese."
—WilLiAm B. SpoffOrd, Chairman,
Church League for Industrial Democracy.
96

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
SHRAPNEL WITH AMERICAN MARKINGS
●
". . . Our missionary workers have even taken from the body
of a slain child on a Shanghai street a piece of shrapnel that bore
markings showing that it had come from American scrap iron.
Stop this trade! It is slaughtering innocent Chinese."
—Mrs. Vincent T. Shipley, Chairman of
the Women's Committee of the Presby
terian Foreign Missions Board.
OUR MORAL JUDGMENT IS NULLIFIED
"For nearly a year the conscience of thoughtful Americans has
been uneasy, to state it mildly, over the present relation that
exists between the United States and Japan.
"I am confident that the great majority of American citizens
consider the so-called "undeclared" war between Japan and
China to be an unprovoked and brutal war of aggression on the
part of Japan. I believe that our country as a whole condemns
Japan.
"And yet we continue to sell Japan scrap iron and other com-
modities for the manufacture of guns and bombs, and Japan
pays us through our purchases of her raw silks and other goods.
As a result, our moral judgment which condemns Japan for this
war is practically nullified by our trade with her."
—The Right Rev. Alexander Mann,
Bishop of Pittsburgh.
A PLEA FOR ACTION
After the 15oth General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church
in the United States ended its sessions with condemnation of the
"needless destruction" of lives and property of non-combatants
in China and with informal endorsement, through thunderous
applause, of a plea to stop shipments of scrap iron from this
country to Japan, Rev. Dr. Charles W. Welch of Louisville, the
Moderator, said:
"Don't go back to your Presbyteries with big chests, bragging
that you are Presbyterians. You are not until you have put into
practice what we have resolved to do in this General Assembly."
37

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
CYNICISM, COWARDICE, IRRESPONSIBILITY
"America's peace efforts have been ineffective because they have
been in terms of cynicism, cowardice and irresponsibility, in-
stead of terms of expectation, courage and honorable action.
They have been war-evading rather than peace-making.
"America is in the position of saying to Japan, 'We hate and
despise what you are doing in China. You have broken faith
with us, and are undermining world security on which our own
well-being depends. But as long as you can pay us we will con-
tinue to sell you what you need, and can't get anywhere else, in
order to go on doing it.'
"Japan has invaded China not at all hecause China lacks good
government and unity, but because China's remarkable progress
in both good government and unity, since 1933, constituted to
the Japanese military mind an alarming threat not only to
Japan's imperialistic ambitions on China's mainland, but to
Japan's dominance in the Far East."
—Rev. E. W. Luccock,
Pastor of Shanghai Community Church.
THE GUILTY AND THE INNOCENT
"Sooner or later the American public must realize that it can
not remain indifferent to acts of international outlawry; that it
must join with other nations in making some distinction in the
treatment accorded to the guilty and the innocent. This need
not involve the obligation to make war upon the guilty; but it
may well involve a determination to cut off al trade relations
with a state which violates its international obligations."
—Committee on International Law and Organization
and Joint Policy Committee of the Catholic Asso-
ciation for International Peace. Rev. R. A. Mc-
Gowan is Chairman of the first, and Prof. Charles
G. Fenwick is chairman of the second committee.
EMBARGO AGAINST THE AGGRESSOR
"The World Alliance for International Friendship Through
the Churches shares the well-nigh universal condemnation of
Japan in their aggression in China, believing that the difficulties
38

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
might have been adjusted by peaceful means, in accordance with
the Nine-Power Treaty and the Briand-Kellogg Pact, to both of
which Japan, as well as China, is a signatory. . ..
"Since the present neutrality legislation permits no distinction
between the victim and the aggressor and tends to quarantine
the peaceful nations rather than war, we believe that the present
law should be amended so as to provide that, when a nation has
violated a treaty to which the United States is a party and oppor-
tunity for peaceful settlement has been refused, the President
shall have power to lift the embargo from the nation agreeing
to accept a peaceful settlement and to apply it only against the
aggressor."
-World Alliance for International
Friendship through the Churches.
PENALTY NECESSARY TO PREVENT WAR
"Benedict XV in his great Letter to the Warring Powers, in
order to reinforce a program of arbitration, of disarmament and
of supremacy of moral right over military power, recommended
that penalties be imposed on any government that refuses to
submit a national dispute to arbitration or to accept a decision
once rendered.
"A penalty short of war is necessary to prevent war. The pen-
alty that is immediately effective in case war threatens or has
been declared is the economic penalty of boycotting the nation
which refuses arbitration or arbitral decision. If the nations
were in earnest to stop a war this would probably be the action
decided on in the international consultation which both major
parties have agreed should be the settled practice of our country
when war threatens anywhere. But unless the United States
agrees to a boycott policy beforehand, the air cannot be cleared
of fears because there would be no certainty of any effective
peaceful action whatsoever. Indeed, unless a differcnt policy is
agreed on beforehand, the nations might after consultation even
leap to the ultimate sanction of war."
—From statement issued by the Reverend Dr. John A.
Ryan, Social Action Dept., National Catholic Welfare
Conference; Prof. Parker T. Moon of Columbia Univer-
sity, and Prof. Charles G. Fenwick of Bryn Mawr College.
39

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
9
ARMS EMBARGO ON JAPAN
ASKED BY METHODISTS
Foundry Church Acclaims Plea
"A congregation of 8oo men and women in the Foundry Meth-
odist Episcopal Church yesterday rose in dramatic acclamation
of a resolution calling for embargo on shipment of war materials
to Japan. The action followed immediately the Rev. Frederick
Brown Harris' stern condemnation of Japanese "ruthlessness,"
delivered from his pulpit.
"The resolution and its reception are unprecedented in the
123-year history of the Foundry Church," Dr. Harris said.
"'It is just as incongruous to maintain relations with Japan,"
the cleric said, "as it would be to entertain the Cash kidnapper
in our homes." He praised the "bravery" of President Roosevelt's
Chicago speech calling for a quarantine of aggressor nations, but
said the speech had not been translated into policy "because
public opinion has not been mobilized behind it."
"Dr. Harris quoted with approval Theodore Roosevelt's state-
ment that he put only one thing before peace-righteousness.
"'It is unthinkable,' he concluded, 'that a Christian nation
should stand silent while these wanton attacks continue.'
"The text of the resolution adopted by the congregation is as
follows:
" Whereas Japan has day after day ruthlessly bombed the un-
defended city of Canton, resulting in more than 8,ooo dead and
wounded non-combatants and untold destruction of property,
and has announced through Government spokesmen its intention
of continuing such action,
"'Be it resolved that the Government of the United States im-
mediately adopt the policy of non-participation in aggression by
planning an embargo on exports to Japan of munitions and war
materials, including oil, gasoline, pig and scrap iron, airplanes
and airplane parts, machinery and engines, copper, automobiles
and auto accessories and chemicals."
"'Dr. Harris told The Post he would join a delegation from
New York, representing Nation-wide church, peace and labor
40

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
groups, in calling at the White House today to urge 'concrete
action' against Japan."
—Washington Post,
June 12, 1938.
THE PRICE OF OUR FAILURE
"The tragedy is that while the peace forces divide, the fascist
war-makers unite. And all the world prepares and thus helps to
make more certain the war which their aggression promotes. The
price of failure to achieve unity to withhold war supplies from
the war-makers is an inevitable universal conflict."
-The Methodist Federation for Social Service.
PEACE WOULD BE SERVED
"The tragedy now taking place in China is bound to affect
world peace and the spread of the Christian gospel. It is impos-
sible for one to be neutral in the presence of this brutal aggres-
sion. Despite my love for both countries, I have been unable to
reach any conclusion except that Japan is the aggressor without
any valid excuse whatever. To withhold support both in finances
and munitions from the Japanese would greatly serve to bring
peace in China and restore to power in Japan a liberal and
internationally-minded leadership."
-BISHOP ÀRTHUR J. MOORE,
Methodist Episcopal Church, South.
A TELEGRAM TO PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT
"Because of Japan's continued war upon China, thus violating
her agreement with us in the Pact of Paris never to resort to war
as a means of settling disputes and her violation of the laws of
humanity by bombing helpless civilians in undefended cities like
Canton and her announced intention of continuing to do so, I
earnestly request you to do all in your power to have an embargo
placed upon the export to Japan of munitions and all other war
materials as a protest against her international lawlessness. You
will have the overwhelming support of the American people in
so doing."
--Chester A. Smirn, Chairman of the Commission on
Social Service, New York Conference of the Methodist
Episcopal Church.
41

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
WHAT CHINA'S LEADER IS SAYING.
WITHHOLD MILITARY SUPPLIES
"China is fighting the battle of the United States and Great
Britain because she is fighting not only for her national salvation
but also for the maintenance of respect for treaties.
"Disturbance of peace in the Far East must necessarily affect
American and British interests considerably.
"But what is more important than their national interests is
the joint responsibility of America and England, as civilized
nations, to uphold justice and the principles of humanity.
"Since hostilities began we have received the sympathy of
various nations and we are grateful to America and England for
their share of sympathy and assistance. Our people, however,
regret to observe that the caution now exercised by the British
and American Governments only tends to increase the menace
to the cause of peace. What China expects mainly from America,
England and oiher countries is that they give material assistance
to China and withhold military supplies from Japan. Only by
such measures can aggression be curbed and the civilization of
mankind maintained."
—GEnERAL CHIAng KAI-SHEK.
WHAT JAPANESE OFFICIALS
ARE SAYING ..
WHAT WAR IS
"War is the Father of Creation and the Mother of Culture.
Rivalry for supremacy does for the state what struggling against
adversity does for the individual. It is such impetus, in the one
case, as in the other, that prompts the birth and development of
Life and Cultural Creation."
-Pamphlet published from Press Bureau
of Japanese War Office.
ABSURD RESOLUTIONS
"We must request the League to study the situation still more.
Such absurd resolutions as that condemning Japanese airmen
42

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
for bombing defenseless cities may not be pamed hereafter. But
apan is not a member of the League and what the League does
or says politically is no concern of ours. No resolution or action
of the League will cause Japan to swerve from her course."
—Japanese Foreign Office Spokesman.
AMERICA'S MORALITY
"We Japanese have no fear of any change in America's foreign
policy for Americans have no real morality but only pious phrases.
What Americans have means so much more to them than what
they are that they will continue to sell to Japan whatever Japan
has the money to pay for, regardless of what Japan does with it
after she gets it."
-Japanese representative.
FROM THE JAPANESE VIEWPOINT
"America's attitude towards the China incident is fair and
just."
-FOREIGN MINISTER KOKI HIROTA.
WHAT OTHERS ARE SAYING ...
A TELEGRAM TO THE PRESIDENT
"In the name of humanity I implore you to take drastic
measures to save Chinese non-combatants. The world looks to
you as champion of the handicapped and the defenseless. You
will justify Àmerica as the friend of mankind by placing an
embargo on all war materials to Japan."
-HeLeN KeLler, noted blind and
deaf writer and lecturer.
BOYCOTT THE AGGRESSOR
"The best method of preventing these nations frcm killing
defenseless women and children is for the masses of the people
to boycott as far as possible . .. that aggressor nation."
—ADmiRAL RICHARD E. BYRD, U. S. N., retired.
43

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
A MESSAGE TO ROOSEVELT
Everyone I meet seems to be in sympathy with the Chines.
no one seems to have a good word for the Japs. Yet we supply
Japan with most of the things necessary to kill and maim the
Chinese to whom we, as a nation of citizens, extend our sympathy.
Japan continues to violate our rights and do everything in its
power to insult us and then says to the Secretary of State, "Sorry,
so sorry."
Why does Japan apologize? Because Japan and the Japanese
know that without the things they get from us they wouldn't
last a month in China. Mr. Roosevelt said, "I hate war." There
are more people on relief now than in 1932. The Japan-China
war has started since then and it certainly hasn't put our mil-
lions of unemployed back to work, so our whole existence doesn't
depend on Japan. Why not embargo war materials and stop
the war in China? It's a perfectly simple and easy way for a
peace loving nation to achieve the desired result and honor and
peace at any price. If we don't do it now, we'll have to fight
for it later. I'd rather see our people on relicf than dead on any
battlefield!
-Ernest G. Jarvis, President, Niagara
Falls Smelting and Refining Corp.
JAPAN AMOK
"Japan should be considered as having run amok just as a
madman and she should be treated as such. What to do? Quar-
antine her in the same sense that President Roosevelt used the
word in his Chicago speech."
—Grover CLArk, late Professor of Government at Denuer
University, noted authority on Far Eastern affairs.
THE A. F. OF L. ATTITUDE
".. . Because the officers and members of the American Fed-
eration of Labor abhor war and regard it as a primitive, brutal
and uncivilized process for the settlement of disputes which
arise between nations, labor believes that it should utilize the
one means at its command to not only voice its protest against
war, and particularly against unjustifiable warfare, but for the
definite purpose of helping to speed the termination of the
shocking, horrible conflict raging in China.
44

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
".. . We realize that unless the democratically governed
cople stand together refusing to sell arms and munitions or to
e loans to any country violating international peace and law,
the other countries, whose interests lie in aggression and arbi-
trary rule, will make common cause with Japan, and protests of
individual countries will be useless."
—WilliAM GreEn, American Federation of Labor.
DAILY SHIPMENTS OF MATERIALS TO JAPAN
"Daily from Baltimore, San Francisco and elsewhere go forth
thousands of tons of scrap iron and other raw materials for
Japan. Scrap iron to be used for war mechanism, artillery and
bombs-bombs which fall on helpless civilian populaces like
Canton and Suchow. And why do such conditions exist? How
long do you suppose Japan could carry on her military invasion
of a poor and helpless people if it were not for the raw materials
which we ship her?"
—BENJAMIN R. STICKNEY, JR.
OUR HANDS ARE STAINED WITH CHINESE BLOOD
"When we trade with Japan we help pay for this invasion of
China. Our hands that buy and sell are stained with Chinese
blood."
—E. STANLEY JonEs, Noted American missionary.
GIVE AID TO CHINA
"If we want to sell war materials, let us sell them in wholesale
lots to China so she may be more able to defend herself against
her barbaric enemy who stops at nothing short of outrage to
gain her unrightcous ends. . . . It is high time that all our
people should vigorously protest against any aid to Japan."
—H. B. BRADFORD.
DISGRACEFUL TO DO NOTHING
"I strongly urge immediate adoption of a policy of non-
participation in aggression stopping Japan's merciless slaughter
of non-combatants. Can not something be done by the United
45

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
States to put an embargo not only on airplanes but on gasoline,
oil, automobiles, iron, copper and chemicals to Japan. It is
disgraceful for the United States to do nothing."
—EDGAR H. Rue, Secretary, American Commiltec,
Institution for the Chinese Blind.
How Australian Longshoremen Feel and Act ...
MELBOURNE, Australia. – The Australian Trade Union
Movement was on record today with its affiliates of waterside
workers, as opposing the loading of war supplies to Japan.
They have implemented their resolutions with dockside action
and dockside workers are now refusing to load war supplies
destined for Japan.
"Being opposed to war and the ruthless slaughter of non-
combatants arising therefrom," states the resolution of the
Australian trade union movement, "we are compelled by con-
viction and conscience to refrain from loading metals or other
products likely to be used in the manufacture of munitions by
belligerent nations."
After the Sydney branch of the Waterside Workers' Federation
refused to load war materials for Japan on the grounds that "If
we hold back the weapons, we hold back the crime," shippers
began to send cargoes io Melbourne for loading.
However, the Melbourne branch of the Federation followed
the lead taken at Sydncy and likewise refused to handle war
goods to Japan. Shippers willing to supply Japan with war
supplies have been unable to fulfill their contracts with the
Japanese munitions factories.
-Dispatches appearing in the
Christian Science Monitor.
War in China-Made in Japan.
46

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
WHAT RESOLUTIONS ARE BEING PASSED ...
Resolation adopted by the National Convention of the General
Federation of Women's Clubs, Assembled May 10-17, 1938, at
Kansas City, Missouri:
ResolvED, That the General Federation of Women's Clubs in
convention assembled, May, 1938, support in principle Congres
sional legislation to implement the aforesaid non-recognition
policy of the United States by empowering the Government of
the United States in consultation with other states signatory of
the Kellogg-Briand Pact to withhold from the violating state any
financial transactions which shall enable it to prosecute the war
or to consolidate its gains; and be it further
ResolvEd, That the General Federation of Women's Clubs
advocate that whenever the Government of the United States
shall find, after consultation with other states signatory of a
treaty, that a state is invading another state in violation of the
(reaty it may be authorized to employ against the invader eco-
nomic measures, not including war but including prohibitions of
loans and credits for war purposes or for consolidation of its
gains, and to place embargoes on munitions of war or other ma-
terial, except food stuffs, as may be used directly or indirectly
in the prosecution of the war.
A PROGRAM FOR WOMEN
In an attempt to make greater progress in the promotion of
peace, the Conference recommends to its member organizations
for urgent consideration the following subjects judged by the
delegates to be, at present, the most essential points of its
program:
For Legislative Action:
1. Revision of the neutrality policy of the United States
through legislation designed to keep our country out of war and
to permit cooperation with other nations to prevent war. . ..
d. The embargo (including munitions, credits and essential
war materials) may be removed by the President from a nation
which, as the result of consultation (with other nations signa-
tory to the Pact of Paris), is agreed to be the victim of aggression.
47

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
—National Committee on Cause and Cure of War,
"Program for 19g8," member organizations being
Americen Association of University Women
General Federation of Women's Clubs
National Board of the Y. W. C. A.
National Committee of Church Women
National Council of Jewish Women
National Federation of Business and Professional Women's
Clubs
National Home Demonstration Council
National League of Women Voters
National Women's Christian Temperance Union
National Women's Conference of American Ethical Union
National Women's Trade Union League
Action taken by Erecutive Committee of the Federal Council
of Churches of Christ in America, June 3, 1938.
The Executive Committee of the Federal Council of Churches
of Christ in America makes vigorous protest against the con-
tinued bombing of the civilian populations of China and Spain.
We request that our Department of International Justice and
Good Will transmit this action to the President and the Secretary
of State.
We also respectfully call upon the Christian bodies in other
lands to take similar action.
War cannot be refined of its savage cruelty. There will be out-
rages against God and humanity as long as there is war. Despite
this fact, the Christian Church cannot but lift its voice in protest
against the barbaric practices of bombing civilian populations.
To do otherwise, would be to stultify its conscience.
At the same time we are humiliated by the fact that Americans
are supplying a substantial portion of the essential war materials
that make such outrages possible.
We deplore the practice of making profit from the blood and
tears of ihe innocent. To surrender such profit would involve
sacrifices by various commercial, financial, labor and transpor
tation interests and by other sections of the population, but we
urge that such sacrifices be made for it would go a long way
towards restoring a sense of morality in international affairs.
48

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Resolution adopted by the General Conference of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, South, in seesion at Birmiaghem, Alebama, on
April 30, 1938.
Wiereas, it is a matter of common knowledge that the terri-
tory of China has been invaded by the armed forces of Japan,
and
Whergas, it is reliably reported that materials of war and other
supplies purchased in America are being used in inflicting great
suffering and loss of life and property upon the people of China,
Therefore BE IT ResolvEd, that we call upon the President and
Congress of the United States to take such action as may be
necessary to prevent the material and financial resources of the
government or citizens of this country from being used either
directly or indirectly to aid Japan in her war of aggression upon
China.
Resolution presented to President Roosevelt and Secretary of State
Cordell Hull by delegation representing 124 religious and peace
societies, June 13, 1938.
Wiereas, Japan has ruthlessly bombed day after day the un-
defended city of Canton, killing and wounding over 8,ooo civil-
ians and causing untold destruction of property, and has an-
nounced through its governnent spokesman the intention of
continuing such action,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the government of the United
States put into effect a "Policy of Non-Participation in Aggres
sion" by placing an embargo on exports to Japan of munitions
and war materials, including oil, chemicals, copper, gasoline.
pig and scrap iron, airplanes and airplane parts, machinery and
engines, and automobiles and automobile accessories.
Two resolutions passed at the Conference for Boycott of Japanese
Goods, held in Boston, Mess, on May 15, 1938, attended by 109
delegates representing membership of 323,718 persons in trade
unions, end religious, fratenal, peace, social and recial organizations.
WherEAs, there exists in the Orient a state of war in which
the Japanese nation has become an aggressor upon the territory
of the Chinese nation and has slain multitudes of unarmed and
defenseless Chinese people, including many women and children,
49

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
Wizrzas, the continued exportation to Japan of materials
capable of being used in the support of this aggression constitutes
a direct aid by the American people in such aggression,
Wizazas, the Neutrality Act, so-called, fails utterly to distin-
guish between nations guilty of aggression and those whose de-
fenseless people are left to the mercy of unjustified and unpro-
voked invasion, thus punishing the innocent as much as the
guilty,
AND wierEAs, the effect of the Neutrality Act cannot possibly
be sufficient to insulate the United States from war should the
same break out on any extensive scale, but the Act tends to make
it difficult for this nation to take part in any preventative meas-
ures designed to forestall such outbreak,
Therefore BE IT REsoLvED, that the President, the State Depart-
ment, the Maritime Commission, and all other executive and
legislative agencies of the United States government, be called
upon to take any available steps through regulation of ports,
adjustment of financial and tariff relations, or otherwise, to
end the exportation to Japan of materials of war and all ma-
terials of general economic use, and to reduce all imports of
Japanese surplus goods,
BE IT ALso ResoLvED, that the Neutrality Act, so-calied, be
amended in such way as definitely to distinguish between the
aggressor nation and the nation subjected to such aggression, to
the benefit of the latter, and
BE IT FINALLY ResolVED, that copies of this resolve, together
with an organization roster of this conference, be transmitted to
the Senators and Congressmen from Massachusetts, the President,
the Secretaries of State, War, Navy and Labor, and to the
Chairman and Clerk of the Joint Committee on Constitutional
Law of the Massachusetts General Court with the request that
the latter Committee take cognizance of the conference's action
through a Memorial to Congress; and that copies be sent to the
press.
Second Resolution
WiereAs, the present policy of the United States Maritime
Commission permits the loading and shipping of war materials
to Japan in Maritime Commission ships, and,
Wiereas, the policy of the consumers' boycott opposes the
giving of such material aid to an aggressor nation,
50

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
THEREFoRE BE IT RESOLVED, that this conference calls upon the
United States Maritime Commission and President Roosevelt to
scontinue the policy which thus permits the giving of aid to
an aggressor through the use of government-owned ships to carry
goods to Japan through conditions more favorable than those
otherwise to be secured, and particularly to discontinue the policy
of shipping war materials in government-owned ships.
Resokstion adopted at the Annual National Convention of the
Young Womon's Christian Association, 1938.
Wierzas, our concern for the people of both Japan and China
would lead us to seek means of terminating the current war in
the Far East, and
Wizreas, the United States' position as a major consumer of
Japanese goods and as an exporter of war materials to Japan
makes it a strategic country at this point,
Therefore BE IT Resolved, that the Young Women's Christian
Association, in Convention assembled, commend and encourage
efforts to curb shipment to Japan of materials which will be used
directly by Japan in pursuing its military invasion of China.
Resolution passed by 2.000 persons attonding meefing outside the
Japanese Consulate-Goneral in New York City on June 17, 1938.
protesting the Japamese bombings of Canton.
Wiereas, the United States Government has branded Japan as
the aggressor nation in the present Sino-Japanese conflict and has
repeatedly protested against the merciless bombings of unde-
fended Chinese cities, the brutal slaying of Chinese non-comba-
tants and the destruction of American missions and hospitals,
and,
Wirreas, the Japanese armed forces have repeated their mass
murders of the civilian population in China and other brutal
acts, disregarding the basic principles of those standards of
humane conduct which have been developed as an essential part
of modern civilization, and,
Wirrzas, American raw materials are being used to manu-
facture Japanese guns, tanks, armored cars, flame-throwers and
other weapons of war, American bombing planes are being used
to carry Ámerican-made bombs for the destruction of Chinese
51

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
civilian populations, American shells are loading the Japanese
guns and American credits are helping to finance Japan's aggre
sion in China,
THEreforE BE IT ResolvEd, that this meeting goes on record
as deploring the American policy which makes it possible for
certain American interests to profit from the blood and tears of
the innocent victims of Japanese aggression,
AND BE IT FURTHER REsolvED, that this organization urges the
Government of the United States to enact legislation to prevent
the material and financial resources of this country from being
used either directly or indirectly to aid Japan in her conquest
of China,
AND BE IT FINALLY ResolVED, that this meeting expresses
its solidarity with seamen, longshoremen and all other workers
and labor organizations which refuse to handle munitions, war
supplies and raw materials destined for Japan, and throw its
moral support behind financial, industrial and other interests
which refuse to lend money, extend credit or sell war materials
to Japan.
Stop Making Uncle Sam a Partner in Aggression!
Resoiution presented by the Netional Maritime Union of America
to the C. I. O. conference in Atlantic City, N. J., October 12. 1937.
Whereas, The present invasion of China by the apanese Mili-
tary Machine without a declaration of war is ar n violation
of the Kellogg-Briand Peace Pact and of th: .e Power Treaty,
and
Wiereas, We believe this invasion not only contains the germ
of a new world war, the burden of which must be borne by the
workers throughout the world, but is, in its essence, an attack
on democratic institutions and a violation of democratic princi-
ples, and ..
Wiereas, The Maritime Workers, many of whom are affiliated
with the Committee for Industrial Organization, have signified
their indignation at being forced, by the very pursuance of
58

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
their livelihood, to carry munitions and war materials to the
Japanese Militarists for use by them in their attacks on the
hinese people, and
Wiereas, In a communication to New York Maritime Council,
dated October 5th, R. Walton Moore, Assistant Secretary U. S.
Department of State, declared that the Department would be glad
to accord a hearing to any parties or organizations interested in
presenting their views on our foreign policy as regards the Japa-
nese invasion, therefore be it
ResolvED, That we, the accredited representatives of unions
affiliated with the C. I. O. gathered in a national conference.
demand of the Federal Government that it immediately take
steps to enforce an economic embargo on Japan and to forbid
the export to that country of munitions, war materials, or any
and all goods which might be used by the Japanese Military
Machine in the furtherance of its present attempt to subjugate
the Chinese people, and be it further.
Resorved, That the Federal Government of the United States
forbid the importation into this country of any and all goods
manufactured in countries or territories controlled by the Im-
perial Japanese Government, and be it further ...
Resolved, That we call upon all Labor Organizations of the
United States and all civil and peace organizations to join with
us in our demand on the State Department.
Resolution presented to Mr. Cordell Hull, Socretary of State, by
New York and Weshington peace delegations on June 13, 1938.
Whereas, The United States Government has designated Japan
the violator of treaty obligations to the United States in the
present Sino-Japanese conflict and has repeatedly protested
against the merciless bombings of undefended Chinese cities, the
brutal slaying of Chinese non-combatants and the destruction
of missions and hospitals, and
Wiereas, The Secretary of State, the Hon. Cordell Hull, has
expressed the government's disapproval of the export sales of
American planes which could be used for bombing civilian popu-
lations, and,
WierEAs, Not only American airplanes but also American
airplane parts, oil, aviation gasoline, pig and scrap iron, ma-
53

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
chinery and engines, copper, war chemicals and even actual
bombs are being shipped in large quantities to Japan, makip
possible the continued bombings and attacks on Canton an
other Chinese cities,
ThereFore, BE IT ResolvED, That we urge the Secretary of
State to extend the application of his disapproval and to dis-
courage the export to Japan of all these munitions and raw
materials, so that American action will have the greatest possible
moral and material effect in compelling the Japanese to cease
their present atrocious tactics of destroying whole civilian popu-
lations.
The delegations included:
Rev. Dr. Frederick Brown Harris, Pastor of Foundry Methodist Episcopal
Church, Washington, D. C.
Rev. Wilbur LaRoe, Jr., Chevy Chase Session. Washington Presbytery (Chair-
man, Committee on Civic Affairs, Washington Federation of Churches).
Mr. Olin D. Wannamaker, educational executive and lecturer, New York City.
Rev. H. W. Burgan, Pastor, Hamline Methodist Episcopal Church and
Chairman, Committee on International Goodwill, Washington Federa-
tion of Churches.
Rev. E. H. Pruden, Pastor, First Baptist Church, formerly on faculty of
University of Shanghai.
Rev. J. H. Hollister, Pastor, Chevy Chase Presbyterian Church.
Mrs. L. E. Gilbert, Women's Guild, National Memorial Baptist Church.
·Philip J. Jaffe, Managing Editor, Amerasia, New York City.
Mrs. 'Dean Burke, Washington Boycott Committee.
Miss Mary Ross, Berkeley Branch, American Association of University Women
(unofficial).
Mrs. Philip Reno, Washington Women's Trade Union League.
Mrs. J. Austin Stone, National Women's Trade Union League (Legislative
representative for peace projects).
Dr. R. Morris Paty, Jr., Southern Methodist Mission Board.
Robert Nerton, Committee for Boycott Against Japanese Aggression.
Mrs. Eleanor Fowler, Washington Labor Peace Committee and American
League for Peace and Democracy.
Mrs. Edwin S. Smith, American League for Peace and Democracy.
Miss Ellen J. Rider, Federation of Churches.
Arthur Clarendon Smith, Washington Committee for Aid to China.
Mr. E. H. Leaf, writer, former North China Manager, United Press Association.
Miss Lillian M. Elkin, Washington Labor Peace Committee.
Irving Aronoff, Memorial Day Youth Peace Parade Committee, representing
104 youth organizations.
Support a Policy of Non-Participation in Aggression.
54

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
MEMORANDUM TO THE UNITED STATES DELEGATION TO THE
WORLD YOUTH CONGRESS—VASSAR COLLEGE, AUGUST 1938.
Approved by the Americen Youth Congres at Beree, Obie, Jely 2-4.
(Commission on Political and Economic Orgemimation fer Pesee.)
"War is not inevitable" was the declaration of the first World
Youth Congress at Geneva in 19g6. Today we must modify this
statement to read that "War is not inevitable if the peace loving
peoples of the world compel their governments to unite against
aggression."
The menace to world peace at the present moment arises not
out of the strength of the foes of peace. The enemies of peace
are weak, weak in integrity and material resources. Unite the
peoples and, through them, the governments who aspire toward
peace behind a common international policy of defense against
aggression, and the spectre of world war which today horrifies the
civilized world will fade.
Wars can be prevented if it is understood that:
1. Peace must be organized internationally. Aggression is not
the private concern of the invader and the attacked but of
all countries.
Nations should not merely re-affirm their support of the
2.
Kellogg-Briand Peace Pact to renounce war as an instru-
ment of national policy but will make this affirmation vital
by refusing to supply violators of the Pact with any goods
necessary for the waging of the war. ...
The Congress also voted against participation of American
athletes in the World Olympics at Tokyo in 194o and approved
plans for a nation-wide campaign to aid in the raising of relief
funds for Chinese youth.
Oil for the Death of China!
55

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
Resokution pessed by the Industrial Council of the Committee on
Industrial Organization, Los Angeles, Calif.
Wiereas, For the last eleven months the Imperial Japane
Government has been waging an unprovoked and aggressive war
of conquest against Democratic China, and
Whereas, During this period the innocent and defenceless
Chinese populace has been bombed and shelled unmercifully by
the Japanese army and navy, and
WiereAs, Many of the planes, their parts and accessories,
bombs, oil to run the planes, have been manufactured in the
United States or assembled and manufactured in Japan with
materials bought in the United States,
Therefore BE IT Resolved, That we condemn these inhuman
acts and whole-heartedly support the State Department's protest
to Japan, the Pittman Resolution of the United States Senate,
the condemnation of American munitions manufacturers by
Cordell Hull, who sell planes to Japan, and
BE IT FURTHER REsOLVED, That we support:
1. An official government embargo on shipments of war
planes, their parts and accessories, to Japan.
2. An immediate embargo on the shipment of oil, scrap
iron and other raw materials of war to Japan.
3.
A boycott of articles manufactured in Japan, the sale of
which in the United States finances the export of war
materials from the United States, and
BE It FiNAlLy Resolved, That this resolution be communicated
to:
Cordell Hull, Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.
Hon. Key Pittman, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee, Washington, D. C.
Douglas Aircraft Corporation, Santa Monica, California
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, Burbank, California
Northrup Corporation, Inglewood, California
Vultee Áircraft, Downey, California
Democracies Can Act!
56

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN'S PARTNER
JAPANESE DEPENDENCE UPON THE UNITED STATES
BY ELIOT JANEWAY
(Reprinted by permission and through courtesy of Harper's Magazine)
The Japanese government is engaged in a war in which it
would be helpless without necessities-oil, steel, munitions, and
various commodities-which it imports from the United States.
At the same time the Roosevelt Administration has embarked
on the biggest naval program ever undertaken by our govern-
ment at any time, and one of the chief reasons for it is a fear of
the Japanese. How does it come about that our government
prepares to defend us against persons who would be no threat
if Ámerican industry did not help them to become one?
This year's great war games in the Pacific are more secret and
mysterious than for many years. This year's Congress is being
asked to vote a naval appropriations bill that will land America
right in the middle of the arms race....
. . It is Japan, not Germany or Italy, which figures as the
possible attacker in the popular mind and in the Navy Depart-
inent's plans. It is because of Japan that our enormous new
battleships will slide down the ways in 1942 and 1948. There
it is, the smoke of the "China incident," slowly creeping up from
the horizon, a cloud by this time a little larger than a man's
hand, and our uneasy people find in it a warning that sometime,
from over the world's shoulder, the Japanese guns and battle
ships may turn against us.
Meanwhile what is Japan doing? That is a fair question be
cause it so happens that she is doing more than bombing Chinese
cities. Japan too has plans for 1943. Her immediate problem
is of course to supply the armies that are pushing into China:
but the program she has publicly announced, and upon which
she is now spending every last cent she can find, is not designed
merely to supply shells and tanks to her infantry or bomb、 to
her airmen. Japan is beginning a second industrial revolution.
the most immediate and obvious results of which cannot be
achieved before the early 1940's.
.. Surely if Japan's new industries are to serve her ... we
can only be delighted at the prospect of Japanese peasants
57

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
living an easier life. But this, alas, is not the case, and it seems
probable that the Japanese peasant will ride on the new rail-
roads only in troop trains, and will come to have a close ac
quaintance with auiomobiles only if he is mobilized into a motor-
ized unit of infantry.
Japanese living standards are falling, not rising, as the blue-
prints for this program are approved. The textile industry-
Japan's greatest employer of labor and producer of wealth-is
seeing more and more of its plants close, as foreign exchange to
purchase cotton and wool abroad becomes rarer and rarer. Heav.
ier and heavier are the tax burdens falling upon the peasants,
and the Finance Minister can only express sympathy for their
decreasing incomes but can offer no hope of easier circumstances.
The Japanese government itself has sent a good part of the gold
reserve which nominally backs its currency out of the country to
pay for imports needed for the war.
Not only are these plans being formulated at an inopportune
moment, if these new industries ar: to serve any peacetime com-
mercial purposes, any solvent domestic market, but the develop-
ment of them is to take place under the xgis of the government.
This may not seem remarkable, or out of place. Other govern-
ments than that of Japan are taking a hand in industrial plan-
ning. But in Japan the government means the Army. Only
one point need be cited for proof. The Japanese Army and Navy
between them account for seventy-nine per cent of the expendi-
tures under the 1938 budget, a budget that has quadrupled in
the seven years since the Manchurian conquest of i931. Japan's
plans for industrial expansion are plans for industrial armament.
This expansion is not confined to Japan proper. Second only
to the Mitsui combine in national power is the Manchurian
Heavy Industrial Development Co. Ltd., headed by Yoshisuke
Aikawa, which is the monopoly for expansion in Manchukuo-in
equal partnership with the government (i.e., the Army). The
Japanese Army owns large interests in many key industrial ven-
tures, notably the South Manchurian Railway, and is in effect
one of the Empire's most important property-owning bodies.
... It is certain, ... no matter how long Japan expects to
be formally fighting in China, that the northern provinces are
to be incorporated into Japan's long-term plans and to play their
part in strengthening her in future campaigns for future pros-
pective conquests. Here the Manchurian Heavy Industrial De-
58

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
velopment Co. has its twin in the Kochu Koshi, which is breed-
 a swarm of "development companies" as subsidiaries. The
Ittern is identical with that of Manchukuo. Here again is a
monopoly company operating in partnership with the govern-
ment, headed by a friend of the Army, and engaging in long-term
Army-inspired projects. ... North China, still a battlefield, is
already, in the War Ministry's careful blueprints, an interrelated
part of the cherished plan for Japanese self-sufficiency.
II
It will be worth while to examine a few of these industrial
schemes and so get some picture of the immense reorganization
and expansion which the Army hopes will make over Japan. By
1941 the steel industry is expected to be turning out twice as
much as at present. But not only is Japan's capacity for making
steel to be doubled; much of this new capacity is to be for special-
ized steel, so that Japan can thriftily turn out high-grade steel
for machinery, and low-grade steel for office buildings. . .. The
United States' capacity, although enormously greater, is almost
altogether occupied by filling orders for industry. But Japan's
steel will be steel for the Army, whether it goes directly into
shells or less directly into machinery to make light tanks. Japan
has no need of steel mills to turn out wire for farmers, or light
steel strips for refrigerators; for she has no one to buy either
wire or iceboxes.
Central agent in the steel program is a government corpora-
tion, the Japan Iron Manufacturing Co. . ..
The automobile industry too is facing four years of rapid ex-
pansion under government regulation. The present session of
the Japanese Diet has included automobiles in the articles im-
portant from the standpoint of national "defense" which are
subject to complete government control. The purpose of in-
creased production is of course obvious-and is not for growing
sale to civilians. ... Japan's automobile factories, unable to cre-
ate demand in civilian circles, are working on special orders-for
the war. For some time now the Japanese automobile industry
has been concentrating on cars using Diesel motors-heavy, expen-
sive, economical only on very long hauls, and thus badly adapted
in every way for use by Japan's citizens; but extremely well
adapted to the needs of armies pushing into China's interior.
59

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
The other method ot transport at the Army's disposal, the rail-
roads, is making almost as much trouble. The government ay
thorities used to be of the comfortable opinion that they ha
plenty of cars and locomotives to handle both peace- and war-
time shipments. But they are now finding 1oo,ooo tons of freight
going unhandled every day for lack of transport facilities, and
new railroad equipment is vital. To complicate the problem are
the 1,zoo miles of railroad taken over in North China which-
perhaps simply to confuse the future conqueror-were built on
three gauges, wide, standard, and narrow. So orders are being
placed under Army supervision-for 500 locomotives, 1,o00 pas-
senger cars, and 1o,ooo freight cars. The steel is being obtained
from our old friend, the Japan Iron Manufacturing Co.
.. . Military expansion for steel, automobiles, and railroad
equipment depends on military expansion of the machine-tool
industry which fashions steel inio parts for these basic steel-using
industries. We have the government's guarantee that the ma-
chine-tool business can depend on at least two years of military
expansion after any need for it in China is over. Is any other
evidence needed to show that North China is just another step
in what Japan regards as her imperial progress?
Oil is notoriously the weakest link in Japan's economy. Obvi-
ously, as this program of industrial expansion goes into effect her
fuel requirements will increase. Now unless something is done
to permit Japan to lay her hands on oil that is exclusively hers,
this whole complicated program will be jeopardized. But Japan's
oil deposits are negligible, as are those of Manchuria and North
China. Japan, however, is not going to drill for oil, but to man-
ufacture it. She is planning to spend the better part of a billion
yen on a project for liquefying coal. ..
Two commercial commodities have been included in this self-
sufficiency program for military reasons. Japan's cotton goods
industry needs, when working at top speed, about 412 million
bales of cotton a year. China produces about 334 million bales,
most of it in the North. Japan plans to increase this output by
persuading the peasants to give up growing food crops and con-
fine themselves to cotton culture, depending on food imported
from other regions. Pulp output, used by her rayon industry,
is also to be increased.
For Japan is anxious to maintain her position as a textile ex-
porter, even though at present she is starving out many of her
60

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
small textile manufacturers. Textile exports bring her foreign
xchange which can be used for the import of goods which her
hbitious program demands.
III
Now this is important to notice because it is the first admis-
sion that this enormous program, so calmly discussed in Japan,
is not self-inaugurating and self-perpetuating. It is dependent
on imports. So vital are the imports that the government has
had to include in its plans two industries, only minutely con-
cerned with the Army, because they make these imports possible.
Steel, automobiles, railroad equipment, machine tools, oil, the
plans are smugly and snugly laid for expansion in these fields on
a huge scale. But here is the catch. Not only a prostrate China
is to contribute to the program. So is Somebody Else, the nation
which sells industrial equipment to Japan.
If you are beginning to have a grim suspicion that Somebody
Else is the United States-which is boycotting Japanese goods,
fearing Japanese aggression, building battleships to defend her-
self against Japan-you are quite right. You will have heard of
our scrap iron shipments to Japan. We are still selling her
scrap. More important, we are selling her steel, finished and
semi-finished, ready to be processed by her factories into arma-
ments. We are selling her gasoline to fill the tanks of the air-
planes that bomb Chinese cities. And most important of all,
from our own standpoint, we are selling her the machine tools
and metal-working machinery which she is to use in revolution-
izing her economy on to a base more nearly comparable with our
own. In the 189o's there was a bit of excitement in England over
the fact that England was exporting textile machinery to coun-
tries, including Japan, though no one thought much about her
then, which were substantial markets for English textiles. Little
attention was paid to the outcry, and the trade continued. What
Japanese textiles subsequently did to English markets is a matter
of economic history. Well, that took over forty years and there
was never any question of war between England and Japan, nor
were the machinery exports for armament use. This, then, is a
very minor analogy to what we are doing at present. The great
triumph which has made the United States the most powerful
industrial nation in the world has been the development of mass
production-for peaceful purposes. We are selling Japan the
means of mass production for war.
61

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
But before we begin to talk about the machinery we are sell.
ing Japan for future use it is worth while to put down some
thing of what we are selling Japan to-day for immediate u
For this forms, indirectly, part of her expansion program too.
Her program, as we have seen, is based upon the complete con
trol, for her own purposes, of North China. We are helping her
to conquer North China by selling her the vital raw materials
she needs for armaments.
Steel first of all. In 1937 Japan produced 5.3 million tons of
steel. Well over one-third of that steel was made from American
raw materials, scrap and pig iron. Besides raw material for her
furnaces, the United States sold her 1,ooo,ooo tons of new iron
and steel in various unfabricated forms. This was quite an in-
crease from the 1936 figure of 54,000 tons. And Japan bought
75,000 tons of American pig iron alone during the first two
months of 1938, and is ordering 100,000 tons more. The same
huge rate of increase is continuing in the purchase of steel. Our
exports to Japan and Manchukuo in January 1938 were three
times what they had been a year ago. A very important point
to note in connection with Japan's purchases of steel here is that
much of it is specialty steel already alloyed with expensive special
metals-copper, nickel, aluminum, chromium, and so on-which
Japan is thus spared from buying, and, indeed, which she is still
unable to process adequately for modern engineering and arma-
ment use. "Even so, she bought more than twice as much rehned
copper from us in 1937 as she did in 1936.
Japan's oil self-sufficiency program, you will recall, will not be
completed until 1943, and even then will give her at best but
two-thirds of her gasoline requirements, and 45 per cent of her
heavy oil needs. During 1937, when this program was merely
so many figures on paper, Japan bought 34.ooo,ooo barrels of oil
abroad. By October she had already bought 2g,ooo,ooo barrels
of it from us. This includes special aviation fuel, produced in
commercial quantities only by America. This anti-knock gaso
line. high in octane content, is the only fuel which will permit
some of the American engines which Japan has been buying to
develop their full power. Because of its anti-knock qualities too.
it lengthens the life of engines, thus saving Japan's under-capaci
tied engine shops much replacement work. So essential is oil to
Japan, and so precarious her present shortage, that Tokyo taxis
are being prevented from cruising in order to conserve her ga
line supplies.
62

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
But even more important than the crucial oil and steel sup-
lies for immediate use that we are sending Japan is our part
aiding Japan to complete her expansion program. Her ex-
pansion program for the steel industry calls for an increase of
2.3 million tons of rolled steel (finished steel rolled from steel
ingots). In 1937 Japan contracted for the purchase of three mod-
ern American rolling mills having a combined capacity of some
million and a quarter tons-almost half of the increase called for
by Japan's five-year program. These are the famous new auto-
matic continuous sheet-and-strip mills made only in this coun-
try, which eliminate 8o-85 per cent of the labor usually needed
for rolling steel and which complete the complicated process at
the rate of about 1,8oo feet a minute, ten times as fast as the old-
fashioned mills through which steel was rolled by hand. The
steel thus turned out lends itself particularly well to automobile
production (another vital part of Japan's expansion program)
and, by their labor-saving devices, these mills will ease somewha!
the serious Japanese shortage of skilled workmen.
It is not only steel rolling mills which we are selling Japan.
but high-speed metal-working machinery of all kinds. We sold
Japan $34,000,o00 worth in 1937, more than she had bought
from the whole world in 1936, and about two-thirds of her 1937
imports. But machinery imports are much more important than
their dollar value would indicate; each machine in its lifetime
produces goods worth many times the value of its purchase price.
Moreover, the high-speed production and standardization of op
erations which efficient machinery makes possible is something
that cannot be measured in dollars or tons. It is the very basis
of mass production and the enormous efficiency that that implies
-for peace or for war. Japan's automobile industry, for instance,
is faced at present with a confusing variety of machinery and
parts: standardization is admittedly its principal problem. Aik-
awa stated, as we have seen, that two years would be necessary
for the installation of modern, high-speed standardized equip-
ment in his Manchurian automobile and aircraft plants. It is
because he must have standardized and efficient machinery, and
because such machinery for automobile production is made only
in the United States, that he is coming here shortly to spend
$3oo,ooo,ooo-almost a third of the total cost of the Manchurian
development program-on American equipment-if his sales talk
about profits to be made in the development of Manchukuo per-
suades American industrialists to advance the $goo,ooo,ooo Mr.
63

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
Aikawa needs. And if Japan begins to standardize her auto, her
steel, her engineering industries on the basis of American design
she cannot later turn to those of another country; if she did sh
would simply continue the same old confusion caused by diverse
types of machinery, some of them interlocking, others not, which
she is trying to get rid of now. Parallel to her auto-equipment
buying, purchases of American locomotives and freight cars will
facilitate the completion of Japan's continental railway program.
Twenty per cent of the new rolling stock Japan needs will be
bought here.
Japan's textile exports have traditionally been the most im-
portant way in which she has financed whatever purchases of
capital goods she has had to make. But textile exports depend
upon raw material imports, notably of cotton. Last year, when
Japan found that the China incident was developing into some-
thing very much like a full-fledged war, she was forced to curtail
these imports, sacrificing her cotton textile industry and its ex-
ports (its export revenues as well, it may be added) to her need
for materials of war. The immediate drop in export revenues,
and thus in foreign exchange, forced her to resort to large-scale
shipments of gold which cut deeply into her scanty reserves. Al.
together she shipped $25o,o00,o0o in gold to the United States
in 1937; and some $25,000,000 more has arrived in California so
far this year, with more promised. Furthermore, she is now de-
bating whether or not to ship every last remaining ounce of gold
to us, since her need of manufactured imports is much more
vital to her than the farce of a gold foundation for her paper yen.
These gold payments went for armament necessities and for
machinery needed by the expansion program. They did not go
for cotton. Thus was set in motion the vicious circle which has
closed her textile factories, despite her recognition of the im-
portance of export revenues to her present solvency and future
plans. By heroic measures, she succeeded since the current cot-
ton season began in August in cutting down her lint takings here
to a third of last year's volume. In spite of this, however, she
ended 1937 with the enormous trade deficit of 6g6,o00,o00 yen.
This appalling figure frightened her into cutting down her cot-
ton imports by an additional 18o,ooo,ooo yen in January and
February, so that her trade deficit for these months was reduced
by 75 per cent.
But the unfortunate result was that she found herself without
sufficient cotton goods on hand to fill export orders previously
64

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
undertaken. To fill these orders, she has had to purchase fin-
hed cotton goods here, an unprecedented step; and, however
reluctantly, to resume her raw cotton purchases here. And as
soon as she resumed her cotton purchases she was compelled
to resume her gold shipments as well, to the dismay of what is
left of conservative opinion in Japan. But sad as the result has
been for Japan, it has been sadder for us. Cotton is the Achilles'
heel of our economy. Japan's inability to purchase her normal
quota of our cotton has had a most depressing effect on the
(otton market and, therefore, on Southern purchasing power.
And her orders to our steel and machine-tool industries have
been far from making up what her boycott of our cotton has cost
15. Similarly, Japan's inability to supply her rayon industry
with pulp has hurt our West Coast lumber mills, which suffered
a panic last summer when the outbreak of war left them with
huge unexportable surpluses on hand. The Japanese purchases
that have been outlined here, vital as they are to Japan, were
sufficient in 1937 to provide our steel and oil industries with a
week's work apiece, no more. They are essential to Japan but
unimportant io us, and the long-term program of armament
expansion growing out of the war in China which they are making
possible has ominous political implications for the United States.
Well, there is the story, a very simple one. Japan is the one
nation in the world whose aggression we fear. Japan is the un-
ashamed attacker of a country with whom we sympathize, whose
magnificent defensive stand we admire heartily. In this attack
have occurred atrocities-the bombing of universities, for exam-
ple-which shock the world.
American industry is selling Japan the goods which permit her
to do this and to rear grandiose schemes for continuing to do
this on a scale so huge that all western Asia will be reduced to the
level of the Japanese subjects in Korea. Seventy-five per cent
of the gasoline Japan used last year, gasoline for tanks and
bombers and warships, came from the United States. One-third
of the steel she made last year, steel for shells, bombs, dum dum
bullets, was made out of American raw materials.
Here, then, is the paradox. The Japanese menace is made
possible by American exports. Because of the Japancse menace
our government is building battleships with money which might
otherwise go for housing or to ease the tax burden of our people.
What is to be done about this situation is up to the American
people. Here are the facts.
65

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN'S NEW NEED: AMERICAN STEELS,
MACHINES AND OILS
BY ELIOT JANEWAY
(Reprinted through courtesy and permission of Asia Magazine)
It must have been a good five years ago that some one discov.
ered Japanese purchases of American scrap iron. Ever since that
time-and particularly since the beginning of the Japanese cam-
paign in China last year-the United States has been collectively
shaken, every now and then, by a spasm of conscience over the
scrap iron which is mysteriously being transmuted, under Nip-
pon's cherry blossoms, into bombs to kill Chinese babies. Car-
toons decrying this trade, and the trade in oil to turn the wheels
of Japanese automobiles, the propellers of Japanese airplanes.
and to push her battleships through the Yellow Sea, have become
familiar. But the typical American reaction has been the thought
that, after all, Japan would make such purchases from Germany
or England if she did not make them from the United States:
and the trade has gone on.
I want to talk now about a trade with Japan which could be
carried on by the United States alone, which no one has car-
tooned, and which is qualitatively of such vast importance that,
without it, the probability is Japan's economy would break
down.
This is the trade in machinery and in lubricating oils. Japan
is buying from the United States machinery which her German
ally and her British ex-ally do not make at all, or do not make
in a quantity or quality able to challenge American products.
It is true that Japan could buy elsewhere some-but not so much
-of the scrap iron and crude oil which bulk so large in her im-
ports. But, now that she has begun to deal in and to depend on
American machinery, American machine tools, special American
steels, lubricating oils and so on, she cannot turn away-unless
she starts to build up her heavy industries all over again, and her
engineering processes from the bottom, and on a less efficient
basis. For Japan has begun to modernize and integrate her
industry with the aid of the United States. One of the most
important parts of integration on a mass production scale is, ob-
viously, standardization. Because she is using American models
now, she must continue to use American models. And in addi-
6

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
tion, and in explanation of her natural impulse to turn first to
he United States, is the fact that German and British industry.
old and expert as they are in engineering skills, do not use those
skills in the efficient mass production way which is so typically
American, nor are they at present able to employ those skills on
engineering goods for the export market. It is in any case absurd
to think of Japan's dividing her economy into two or three com-
partments, modeled by engineering imports from different na-
tions. Since her main line of mass production development in
the heavy industries is American, she must either complete her
program under American auspices or at great expense scrap the
better part of her American engineering models and start all over
again on a German or British basis.
Japan's increasing imports of American machinery show how
thoroughly her quantitatively larger imports of raw materials
are, and will be, influenced and controlled by the machinery
which must process them. Thus a qualitative problem has arisen
beside her older problem of obtaining raw materials. They must
be raw materials of a suitable quality and kind.
Now just what is the importance of machinery to a country?
Let us take a very simple case. Japan is capable of turning out
5,000,o00 tons of steel a year, when she is buying scrap and pig
iron abroad (that is, in the United States) freely. That sounds
impressive, but actually it is just a first step. For steel is just so
much raw material for modern industry, able to do nothing but
rust in a mill yard unless it is handled further. If it is to be
useful to modern industries, it must be turned, ground, cut.
shaped, welded, treated to resist heat and acid, to cut other steel,
to endure enormous pressures and great speeds. In the past five
years, machine tools for making machinery out of steel have been
speeded up as much as has been the making of the steel itself.
Éver more efficient tools have been developed to handle the
growing output of the steel mills. Thus, if Japan is to use the
steel, she must import the tools, or she will find herself produc-
ing steel she cannot process. And to produce and process steel
at this pace she is calling upon the engineers and chemists and
plants of Detroit and Pittsburgh. So American machinery, in
effect, rules the greatest of Japan's empire-building industries.
These empire-building and controlling industries have changed
with the empire itself. Japan first of all built up her strength as
an island empire. The industries she developed were, naturally,
shipping and shipbuilding, and light goods for export, such as
67

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
textiles, just like that other island empire halfway across the
world, which has prided herself on her textile exports and h
sea-going tradition. But now Japan is becoming, and desiring
ever more to become, a mainland empire. Her problems are
changing. Control of her tens of thousands of square miles of
backward territory, peopled by unwilling subjects, raises new
questions of continental transportation and communication. It
is the United States and not England which has developed the
technique of handling industries such as railroad, automobile and
aircraft building on a mass production scale, and it is therefore
to the United States that Japan has turned for aid in the solution
of her new problems; and particularly for the machinery to set
American-style assèmbly lines in motion. It is very evident that
an assembly line industry, importing its machinery or at the best
the machine tools that make its machinery, is qualitatively de
pendent for its very life on the engineering skill ten thousand
miles away that determined the position of each screw in a (er-
tain machine and decided that it should operate at four hundred
and fifty revolutions per minute.
Because of this long-distance dependence, Japan needs machin
ery that is well built and sturdy, since she herself is not equipped
to duplicate or repair it. In any case, she must mortgage her
industrial future to the nation that supplies her, since replare
ment must be made frequently. Auto-making machinery. tor
instance, is subjected to great pressure and must be replaced
every three to five years. And there is always the chance of an
accident which will hold up an assembly line until repairs-which
Japan is ill equipped to take care of-can be made.
Thus far we have been going on the assumption that these
complicated machines are imported to hanlle the 5.ooo,ooo tons
of steel which Japan produces yearly. But this is hardly true
For the steel which Japan turns out is, for the most part, heay
and brittle, unsuited for use in high speed and high tension
machines and motors. So Japan imports not only American
tools but also new American steels alloyed with aluminum
nickel, chrome and other metals, and much lighter and more
durable than the typical Japanese product. Railroad equipmen
is one of the chief products which Japan must turn out It
obvious that light steel cars, which are yet strong enouglh to
carry a heavy load, are advantageous.
In the aircraft industry this special steel is not simply advan-
tageous; it is indispensable. The American Machinist, a trade
68

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
paper, mentions casually the composition of steel used in an
airplane propeller made by a famous American manufacturer.
propeller is forged from a special alloy of aluminum and
steel which has been heat-treated until its tensile strength has
become sufficient to enable it to withstand a strain of 55,000
pounds per square inch. It must be able to stand such a strain
if it is to serve the powerful engine that drives it. Japan is buy-
ing such engines in the United States, and she is purchasing also
the machine tools designed to make these propellers. But even
when she has installed them she will still have to come to the
United States for the aluminum steels out of which the propellers
are made.
For in Japan steel is still just steel, while in the United States
steel is bought according to specification. The consumer tells
the manufacturer what he wants to use his steel for, and the man-
ufacturer melts it accordingly. Japan is finding it as necessary
as does the United States to use special, efficient steels for special
purposes. She is, for instance, and very immediately, planning
to motorize her infantry. She wants thousands of fast, sturdy
autos, trucks and tanks, with which to send her troops into
China's vast interior. There are no service stations in Shansi,
and, if each part of the cars Japan gives to her soldiers is not
strong and reliable, the Japanese advance will end only in a
bogged down mess of broken cars surrounded by guerrilla snip-
ers. Now, if you want to cut teeth in automobile gears at a mass
production clip, the cutting tool you use will have to be fash-
ioned precisely to cut five one thousandths of an inch deep, and
at the rate of 425 feet a minute. But no ordinary steel can be
handled in this fashion and survive to function as a gear on an
automobile. Accordingly, Japan is making her gears with Amer-
ican machine tools. The steel and the tools are useless if
they are not used together, the steel because an old-fashioned
tool cannot cut it, the tools because they will destroy a less
strongly fashioned steel. And still Japan has not remotely begun
to approach the American standard of efficiency which grades all
steels meticulously according to the uses their compositions per-
mit them to be put to.
Much of Japan's 5,ooo,ooo-ton steel capacity must, therefore.
be written off as useless in the face of her railroad, automobile
and aircraft program. If Japan hopes seriously ever to turn her
feudal peasant land into a power comparable to America's indus-
trialized might, she must start from the very beginning to dupli-
69

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
cate America's industrial plants. She has, during the past year,
begun to purchase modern mills for rolling steel in the mos
efficient way. And, because of this, she has been forced to
crease her purchases of machinery to process this new steel. D
ing 1937 she spent as much on machinery as she spent on her
much heralded purchases of scrap iron, and she has bought so
far this year at the record rate of $g,ooo,ooo a month.
But the purchases of machinery in which her purchases of
steel involve her have forced Japan also to pay tribute to another
industry, unimportant in the extreme as far as quantity is con-
cerned, but qualitatively, again, absolutely necessary once mod-
ern industrial methods begin to be followed. This is the
American method of lubrication-developed to its height in the
machine shops of Cleveland and Youngstown. All of the com-
plicated and expensive machinery Japan imports is fitted with
oil pumps, designed to force just the right grade and kind of
lubricating oil between metal surfaces at just the right speed,
and thus, by preventing friction, to lengthen the life of the tool
or the engine. And so Japan must acknowledge the hold over
her economy of yet another unique American product, which
hardly shows up as a significant item in her list of imported
goods and yet without which an integrated modern economy
would be out of the question. The steel takes the tools, and the
tools take the oils, and Japan must come to the United States for
all threc.
Every day Japan's war in China makes her need of this Amer-
ican equipmeni more urgent. The railway problem is typical.
Because of a car shortage, 1o0,ooo tons of freight remain un-
handled every day. Japan plans to build soo locomotives and
7,000 freight cars. But her 24 plants dedicated to this purpose
must remain idle until the lathes and other machine tools she
has ordered abroad, principally in America, arrive. Meanwhile
she has placed emergency orders for 2o per cent of this program
in America, abandoning hope of supplying them herself
And so the story, all through the industrial econom that
Japan is striving so desperately to modernize and to integ te. is
of dependence on American products, on unique American kills.
on goods which America alone is producing in quantiti: suffi-
cient to export. For light, durable steels in mass prodi tion
quantities; for railroad, automobile and aircraft manufa( ing
equipment made from these steels and by these tools; and. f.nally,
70

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
for the high-powered fuel needed to run her new American air-
craft engines, Japan can go nowhere else. And each of these
pducts is useles without all the others.
What Japan is aiming at-and indeed what these American
products are alone designed to serve-is an interdependent, mass-
production economy. But what Japan is necessarily and inevita-
bly involving herself in is an economy integrated toward contin-
ued imports from one country, interdependent indeed, but far
from independent of that country's good will. And that economy
is virtually subject to the control, no matter how little her pub-
licists and generals may know it or care to admit it, of the quan-
titatively small, but qualitatively all-important engineering goods
which that country sends her.
SHIPMENT OF STEEL AND SCRAP IRON
TO JAPAN
EXTENSION OF REMARKS OF HON. BYRON N. SCOTT
OF CALIFORNIA IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1938
(Excerpts from Congressional Record)
Introduction to article, "AMERICA CAN HALT JAPAN"•
By PAUL G. McMAnUS
Mr. Scott. Mr. Speaker, under the leave to extend my remarks
in the Record, I include the following article by Paul G. Mc-
Manus:
The difficulties the Japanese have been encountering in their
war against China spotlights what singularly few people seem
aware of: That the United States is in the strategic position of
being able to cripple Japan's war machine by suddenly cutting
off the supply of scrap needed in steel production. This may be
illustrated by citing figures for Japan. In 1937 she produced
• For the balance of a closely reasoned article, see Congressional Record for
May 18. 1938. Space prevents quotation in full.
71

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
roughly 5,goo,o0o tons of steel. In the manufacture of this ton-
nage over 2,ooo,ooo tons of scrap were used, of which the United
States supplied 1,goo,ooo tons. Thus one-third of the raw mate
rial used in Japan's steel industry in 1937 was derived from
American scrap. It can readily be seen that sudden stoppage of
this flow would adversely affect Japan's ability to produce steel.
The foregoing represents the opinion of no individual. The
figures cited are based upon official export statistics compiled
monthly by United States Government bodies. The paragraph
as a whole is quoted almost literally from a recent speech by
E. W. Pehrson, of the Metal Economics Division of the United
States Bureau of Mines, before the trade organization of used-
material dealers. It constitutes the most direct statement made,
since Japan invaded China, of the vital role plaved in Japan's
war economy by Ameri an industry.
AMERICAN EXPORTS BOLSTER JAPAN
BY T. A. BISSON
(Reprinted through courtesy and permission of Foreign
Policy Association, Inc.)
During recent weeks the new military-fascist members added
to Japan's Cabinet have demonstrated how the war in China
should be conducted. Not content with an intensified drive on
the central China fronts, they have instituted a ruthless bombing
of Canton which has piled up a total of at least 8,ooo casualties,
mostly civiliar non-combatants. Laying claim to "military neces-
sity," Japanese officials have spurned protests against this bar-
barity, declared that the air raids would be continued "with even
greater vigor," and acted on this declaration. By June 12, as a
result, Canton was experiencing its fifteenth successive day of
aerial bombardment.
Military inefficiency rather than military necessity-if the real-
ization that a desperate case requires desperate remedies be ex
cepted-lies at the root of this latest exhibition of Japanest
"frightfulness." For months Japan's naval planes have been
bombing the tracks, stations and bridges of the Canton-Kowloon
Railway in an effort to disrupt the munitions shipments which
are reaching Hankow via Hongkong and Canton. Japanese

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
planes have been virtually unopposed in the air: nevertheless.
they have failed to interrupt railway traffic. Heroic Chinese re
air crews quickly restored tracks or bridges where the raiding
planes scored direct hits. Hoping to demoralize the Chinese
defense, the new Japanese leadership deliberately resorted to an
indiscriminate bombing of Canton. The doubtful efficacy of
this weapon has again been illustrated in south China; lates!
reports indicate that the Canton-Kowloon Railway is still fund
tioning and that munitions trains are still passing north to Han-
kow.
The raids on Canton are not the responsibility of Japan alone.
Americans should face the fact that this country is participating
de facto in the destruction wrought at Canton. The high-test
aviation fuel, which the United States is supplying in large and
increasing quantities to Japan. makes this country a participant
in the Canton bombardments: so. also, does the $5,670,237 worth
of American aircraft and accessories sold to Japan since January
1938. As pointed out in the Washinglon News Letter, these facts
led Secretary Hull on June 11 to reveal that the State Depart
ment was taking measures to "discourage" salc of American air-
planes to Japan. Airplanes, however, constitute but a small
portion of the war materials which American concerns are sup
plying to Japan. High-grade steels with specified alloys. specia!
types of machinery and machine tools, and certain fuels and
lubricating oils-these, and other products, are available to Japan
in large quantities only in the American market. When sap
and pig iron, refined copper, petroleum, automobiles and ace
sories, non-metallic metals, and numerous lesser items are added
to the list of American exports to Japan, the full picture be omes
apparent. A scientific study of this subject, to be shortly pub
lished by the Chinese Council for Economic Rescarch at Wash
ington, D. C., estimates that during recent months Japan has
secured 54.4 per cent of its war imports from the United States
It is clear that Secretary Hull's private warnings to a few
American airplane manufacturers do not constitute an adequat
answer to the question raised by these facts. The United Siates.
as the chief source of supply of Japan's war materials, has becom
a silent partner in Japanese aggression. It is not enough 10 suy
that this country is also supplying munitions to China. Noi dous
application of the Neutrality Act commend itself as the proper
answer to the situation that has developed. As early as lat
September the American government explicitly ranged itsell
73

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
with the League in condemnation of Japan's bombing of open
cities in China; in more recent declarations, the State Depart-
ment has implicitly branded Japan as the aggressor in the cy
rent Far Eastern hostilities. Something more than words
required, however, if the United States is not to be accused of
transparent hypocrisy. In order to enforce a policy of non-par-
ticipation in Japanese aggression, the American government
must levy a strict embargo on sales of war materials to Japan.
At the same time, the Chinese government should continue to
enjoy every facility for the purchase of the munitions which it
needs to protect China's national existence against an unjustified
and ruthless assault. Only thus can the deeds of our government
be squared with its words. This policy will demand a price
from certain vested American interests, but that price will be
cheap compared with the war which looms on the horizon if
Japan ever establishes itself effectively in China.
Despite Japan's recent military gains, there is no reason to
believe that the Chinese cause is hopeless. Rising waters and
breaches in the dikes of the Yellow River have mired the Jap-
anese advance along the Lunghai Railway. and Chengchow is
apparently still in Chinese hands. Time is being given for the
Chinese forces to reform their lines for the defense of Hankow.
Withdrawal of further American aid to the aggressor at this cru-
cial moment would condemn Japan's desperate cleventh-hour
offensive to defeat.
Japan furnishes the pilot-America furnishes the airplane, gaso-
line, oil and bombs for the ravaging of undefended Chinese cities.
74

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
Stop Economic Aid to Japan ...
●
WHAT ORGANIZATIONS CAN DO
The active support of organizations throughout America is
needed in order to make effective an embargo upon war supplies
from the United States to Japan.
Any or all of the following suggested activities can be carried
out, beginning at once, by organizations, national or local, with
or without the cooperation of other bodies:
1. Take the stoppage of military supplies to Japan as a leading
issue in connection with organizational publications, correspond
ence, meetings and conferences. Arrange for special gatherings
and radio addresses when possible.
2. Send copies of all actions taken by large or small groups to
President Roosevelt, to Secretary of State Cordell Hull, to mem-
bers of the Senate and House Committees on Foreign Relations,
to Senators and Congressmen of your state, and to local news-
papers.
3. Write individual letters to any or all of the above protest-
ing against American aid to Japanese aggression and requesting
that official action be taken to prohibit the export of war supplies
to Japan.
4. Form local committees (civic leaders, ministers, members
of women's organizations, labor organizations, and peace groups.
and other public-spirited citizens) to call on Congressmen, Sen-
ators and Congressional candidates, informing them of the
opinion of local groups, and urging them to take a position
with regard to the issue.
5. If the legislature in your state is meeting this autumn or
winter, attempt to secure passage of a Memorial to Congress urg-
ing congressional action for withholding munitions, other war
supplies and financial aid from Japan for the duration of the war.
or withholding economic aid for war purposes to countries which
are in process of violating peace treaties with the United States.
6. Express your moral support to industrialists, merchants,
and other individuals and to labor and other organizations re-
fusing to cooperate in the manufacture or shipment of supplies
for Japan's war machine.
75

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
7. Designate one or more persons active in the organization
who can devote his time and effort during the summer and au-
tumn to the embargo issue, who will keep in touch with 'l
branches of the organization, with other organizations, and
the American Committee for Non-Participation in Japanese
Aggression.
WHAT INDIVIDUALS CAN DO
The actions of individuals are no less significant than those
of organizations. To any who feel strongly with regard to the
question of American support for Japanese aggression, the fol-
lowing activities are suggested:
1. Send letters to President Roosevelt, Secretary of State Cor-
dell Hull and to Senators and Congressmen from your state, a
suggested in third paragraph above.
2. Write the editor of your local newspaper, stating your po
sition and suggesting that the paper lend its edlitorial support
to thc policy of non-participation in Japanese aggression.
3. Order and distribute further copies of the pamphiet,
"Ainerica's Share in Japan's War Guilt."
4. Discuss the question with friends and think ot further
means toward ending America's support to Japan at this time.
Send your ideas and suggestions to the Secretary, American Com
mittee for Non-Participation in Japanese Aggression.
5. Promote and cooperate in such organizational activities as
are suggested above.
WHAT AMERICANS IN CHINA CAN DO
1. Promote such activities as are sug-
gested above.
2. Write to friends and organizations
in the U.S.A. urging them to send letters
to key Government leaders as proposed in
paragraphs 2 and 3, page 75.
3. Send to friends at home accounts of
personal experience that make more vivid
the facts presented in this booklet.
4. Support the "American Committee for
Non-Participation in Japanese Aggression."
Send them information and give them names
for their mailing list.
76

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
American Committee for Non-Participation
Japanese Aggression...
A growing realization that the United States is, in effect, an
ally of Japan for her program of conquest in Asia has led to the
spontaneous organization of the American Committee for Non-
Participation in Japanese Aggression.
Neither widespread sympathy for the Chinese people in their
courageous struggle for freedom nor protests over inhuman war-
fare and the violation of treaties can atone for the positive
upport which we are lenaing to the Japanese nmilitary machine.
This Committee's reason for existence is to help in bringing
the essential facts to the attention of the American people, co-
operating with other individuals and organizations that are
working to this end, and to investigate ways and means whereby
the stoppage of war credits and essential war supplies to Japan
an be made effective for the remainder of the present conflict
in China.
Significant facts with regard to American aid to Japan will
be placed before commercial, industrial. financial, labor and
transportation groups. On grounds of both moral responsibility
and far-sighted self-interest, the case for non-participation in
Japanese aggression will be presented, and public opinion will
be invited to lend its support to all who voluntarily sacrifice a
share in "profits from the blood and tears of the innocent" in
China.
The Committee will endeavor to help in crystallizing public
demand and support for governmental executive action designed
to check the flow of American credits and war materials to Japan.
Study is being made of the forms of effective executive action
possible under existing law. Contact will be maintained with the
governinental departments concerned.
The Committee will also work toward securing the enactment
of a measure at the next session of Cengress prohibiting the ex-
tension of economic aid for war purposcs to a country which is
in process of violating a solemn treaty of peace to which the
United States is a party.
To insure the more complete effectiveness of any action taken
in America, the Coramittee will collaborate with organizations
77

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
in other countries which are working to halt shipments of essen-
tial war materials to Japan. Through this means, international
action by peoples and governments will be sought.
The central and single aim of the Committee is expressed in
the phrase "non-participation in Japanese aggression." Doc-
trinal isms, domestic issues, and the European situation, how-
ever important, are beyond its scope.
Members of the Committee regard this progran as a construc-
tive effort in the direction of international peace and justice.
They desire the well-being of the people of Japan as weli as of
all other peoples in the Pacific arca. They desire peace and jus
tice for all concerned. They feel, at the same tinie, that before
any just settlement and lasting peace structure can be achieved.
Japanese military aggression must be checked. They believe that
for this a policy of non-cooperation by the powers together with
continued Chinese resistance will be effective, and that the urgent
and crucial need of the moment is to withhold economic assist
ance for war purposes from Japan.
Starting in a small way, this Committee has received an imme-
diate response on all sides. This has led to a more inclusive organ-
ization which is still in process as the movement to check the fow
of war materials from America to Japan gains rapidly in momen
tum. The contents of this booklet suggest the contacts which
the Committee has made to date and the extent to which the
movement has alieady grown. It is expected that formal organi
zation of the Committee will be completed and announced in
the near future, with outstanding citizens among the sponsors.
Far more important than this Conmmittee, however, is the
movement of which it is but a part. Not one but scores of or
ganizations and thousands of individuals must unite in common
efiort in order to make this movement eflective.
In cooperation with individuals and organizations throughout
the United States, furnishing and receiving suggestions and in
formation, the American Committee for Non-P'articipation 
Japanese Aggression is ready to do its part.
Keep this bookiet and lhese
proposals circulating among
other Americans in China
78

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
NATIONAL BOARD
INITIAL MEMBERS
Dr. Edward H. Hume, Director of Christian Medical Council for
Overseas Work.
Miss Josephine Schain, National Chairman, National Committee
on the Cause and Cure of War.
Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr, Union Theological Seminary.
Mrs. Lincoln Steffens (Ella Winter), Executive Board, League of
American Writers.
Mr. Roger S. Greene, lately Acting Director of Peiping Union
Medical College and former Consui-General at Hankow
Miss Helen Keller, author and lecturer.
Mr. Louis D. Froelick, fomeily Editor of Asia Magazine.
Mr. T. A. Bisson, Researih Staff, Foreign Policy Association;
Author. "Japan in China."
Mr. Philip J. Jaffe, Managing Editor, Amerasia.
Mr. Maxwell Stcwart, Associate Editor, The Nation.
Mr. Eliot Janeway, economist, writer.
Miss Margaret Forsyth, National Board, Y.W'.C.A.
Dr. B. A. Garside, educational administrator.
Mr. George Fitch. Secretary of Y.M.C.A. in China (on leave).
Mr. Olin D. Wannamaker, educational exe utive and lecturer.
Rev. Dr. Frank W. Price, Nanking Theological Seminary (on
leave).
Rev. Dr. E. W. Luccock, Pastor, Shanghai Community Church
(on leave).
Mr. Earl H. Leaf. writer, former North China Manager of
United Press.
Mr. Edgar H. Ruc, Executive Se retary, Institution for the Chi-
nese Blind, Shanghai.
Mr. Chester A. Smith. Chairman, State of the Country and Social
Service Cominittee, New York Methodist Conference, 1937-38.
Mr. Harry B. Price, Professor of Economics, Yenching University,
Peiping (on leave). SECRETARY.
Membership as individuals
79

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
Initial contributions have made it
possible to print the first issue of this
booklet and to begin the setting up of
an office. For the broad program of work
needed in order to make effective the
stopping of economic aid to Japan, ad
ditional contributions will be necessary.
Donations sent to the Secretary, Ameri-
(an Committee for Non-Participation in
Japanese Aggression, 8 West 4oth Street,
New York, N. Y., will be gratefully a-
knowledged and conscientiously applied
to the enlarging work of this Cominittee.
Contributors and others interested will
be invited to cooperate in the efforts of
the Conmittee and they will be kept
inforrued with regard to further develop-
ments.

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
1. I can use effectively among Americans in China
copies of the booklet.
America's Share in Japan's War Gullt.
Please send them to me.
2. I wish for mailing to America
copies of the etter
urging support of "ThePeace Act," (H. J. S7) at 30 ¢ per ten.
I am enclosing $
for these letters.
Name
Address

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
(U. S. A.)
November
,1938.
Dear Sir:
There is due to come before the House of Representatives st its next meeting
a report from the Foreign Affairs Committee on Resolution 527, introduced by Rep.
J. J. O'Connell. It asks that the United States sever such economic relations as would
tend to support the war machine of any aggressor nation. It would be of particular
value now in the Far East.
I (or we) wish to urge that you use your influence on this or other measures
that will bring to an end the shipment of munitions, raw materials, other supplies and
credits from the United States to Japan, whereby we have become her most vital and
direct ally in aggression.
Believing this situation one of the most important now facint the people of the
United States, we urge that you give ample time and effort toward seeing that
definite action is taken by our Government on this question.
Yours very truly,
Key Government Representatives:
Your own Representatives in the House
Your own Congressmen in the Senate
Secretary Hull
President Roosevelt
Sam D. McReynolds, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee
Key Pittman, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 1.00)
Shanghai, China.
November 1st, 1938.
Dear
For fifteen months you have been hearing about Japan's invasion of China. We
are confident that your sympathies are with China and that you will welcome
opportunities to take a stand for right and justice. Many now believe that the time
has come when Americans can act—and we must act, for our own nation is supplying
most of the tools of Japan's aggression:
Japan is buying 54% of her munitions from the U.S.A. Her heavy
industry depends upon a grade of steel and a type of machinery that can be
bought only in America. Her military trucks, airplanes, oil and gasoline come
largely from our country.
It is our purchase of Japan's chief export, silk, that enables her to buy
these indispensable supplies from us. 97% of our silk comes from Japan; 85%
of all the silk that she exports is sold in the U.S.A.
We are in the impossible position of strongly condemning a brutal injustice and
at the same time giving direct and vital aid to the perpetrators of that wrong. Even
a far-sighted view of our own economic interest calls for a change of policy: This
trade with Japan does mean a temporary impetus to American business, but it will
lead to great future losses in the form of the "Closed Door" in a conguered China.
A free China, rebuilding her shattered homes and industries, would mean steadily
increasing business opportunities for many decades to come.
Let us face it: Instruments of death and destruction are being made by
Americans, largely paid for by Americans through the silk and other trades, and
sold to Japan to help carry forward a barbarous invasion that these same
Americans are anxious to see defeated and would be willing to restrain, if they
realized that they could.
A way is opening up which I believe you will gladly support. A resolution,
known as the Peace Act, is due to come before the House at the present session, be-
ginning in December. It is House Resolution No. 527 and was introduced by Rep. J.
J. O' Connell. It advocates making unlawful the sale or shipment of arms, munitions,
and other war materials to aggressor nations. It may become the deciding factor in
the salvation of China, but if it is to pass the House, it must have the loyal support of
large numbers of American People.
Will you not write, along the lines suggested by the enclosed letter, to men in
key Government positions, urging them to support this resolution and then get as many
other persons as possible to write, both individually and in groups, similar, but not
identical letters? My confidence that you will do so prompts the sending of this
letter. You will thus be adding the weight of your influence to the effort to clear
our United States from her unhappy aliance with the forces of lawless, merciless
aggression.
Sincerely yours,

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
SUMMARY OF “PEACE ACT"
H. J. 527, Introduced by Rep. J. J. O'Connell
Whenever the President shall find that an act of aggression has been
committed, he shall proclaim such fact and shall name the aggressor in such
proclamation, and it shall thereafter be unlawful to export or to attempt to
export, or cause to be exported, arms, ammunition, or implements of war from
any place in the U.S. to any aggressor named in such proclamation.
Whenever the President shall have issued a proclamation....and he shall
thereafter find that the cessation of commerce between the U.S. and any aggres-
sor named in such proclamation in any articles or materials in addition to arms.
ammunition and implements of war, is necessary (1) to promote the security of
the U.S.; (2) to protect the lives of citizens of the U.S.; (3) to shorten the
duration or prevent the spread of armed conflict threatening world peace: or
(4) to effectuate or aid in the effectuation of the objects of any treaty to which
the U.S. is a party thro'collective action of signatures thereto. he shall so pro-
claim and in such proclamation shall enumerate the articles and materials whose
export to or import from the aggressor shall be prohibited.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.97)
ASHINGTON COMMITTEE FOR AID TO CHINA
ROOM'203
1115-15TH STREET, N. W.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
REpublic 0865
3924
uek 12/7/38/
. WILLIAM C. ABERNETHY
REV. GEORGE A. ACKERLY
December 1, 1938
MR. JOHN ANDERSON
HoN. JOHn M. BAER
MRS. GEORGE BARNETT
MRG. JOHN BoYLE, JR.
DR. H. W. BURGAN
MRS. DAVID
BARR
MRS. LOUIS COHEN
The Honorable Cordell Hull
MRS. MEYER COHEN
Secretary of State
MRS. WILLBON COMPTON
MRS. MORDECAI EZEKIEL
Washington, D.C.
LAR LASIEHN ALTAINS
DR. E. L. FORD
MR. THEODORE GRABE
MRS. ERNEST GRUENING
Dear Mr. Hull:
Deps tment of State
894.24/531
DR. FREDERICK BROWN HARRIS
DR. J. H. HOLLISTER
RABBI EDWARD ISRAEL
I have the honor to transmit to you
MR. WILBUR LA ROE
DR. WALTER LOWDERMILK
MRS. WALTER LOWDERMILK
a copy of a resolution which was adopted
MR. ROBERT MARSHALL
MR. WILLIAM J. MILEHAM
by acclamation at a dinner last Tuesday
PEYBER
DR. EDWARD HUGHES PRUDEN
evening of one hundred members and guests
MRS. GEORGE ROSS
DR. CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
DR. JOHN W. RUSTIN
of the Washington Committee for Aid to
HON. BYRON N. SCOTT
DR. DANIEL N. SHOEMAKER
China.
MR. ARTHUR CLARENDON SMITH
HON. HENRY G. TEIGAN
Yours sincerely,
MRS. BENJAMIN WALLACE
DR. CHARLES WESLEY
Harace W Truesdell
Horace W. Truesdell
Chairman, Executive Committee
The Washington Committee for Aid to China
794-24
2

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
RESOLUTION ADOPTED AT A DINNER OF
THE WASHINGTON COMMITTEE FOR AID TO CHINA
AND THEIR GUESTS
at the Lee House, Wasnington, D. C.
November 29, 1938
RESOLVED: that it in the mense of this meeting
that we are unalterably opposed to the shipment of
materials for war purposes from the United States to
the aggressor nation Japan, and tnat we shall work in
every way possible to arouse the American people to
our responsibility of preserving democracy and of
helping the democratic country and of helping the
democratic country of China by refusing to supply
Japan with the materials of war.

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.96)
secember 14 1958.
Is reply refer to
GA 004,24 Truesdel1, Horace W.
My dear Mr. Truesdell:
The reoeipt is moknowledged of your letter of
December 1, l938 transmitting a copy of a resolution
1n regard to the Far Eastern situation whioh was adopted
by acolamation of l00 members and guests of your organiza-
894.24/53
tion at a dinner g1ven November 29, 1938.
Your courtesy in transmitting a copy of this resolu-
tion 1s greatly appreciated.
with regard to the shipment of war materials to
Japan, your attention is invited to Seotion 1 (a) of
the enolosed oopy of the Joint Resolution of Congress
approved May 1, 1938, whioh provides that whenever
the President shall find that there exists a state of
war between or among two or more foreign states he shall
proolaim suoh faot. Should the President issue a
proelamation finding that a state of war exists between
China
F
Mr. Horeee W. Truesdell,
A
Chairman, Exeoutive Committee,
The Washingten Cemmittee for Aid to China,
Roem 203, 1115 - Fifteenth Street, Northwest,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
Chine and Japan, the export from this country of arms,
ammunition, and implements of war to both Ohina and
Japan would be immediately prohibited. In the absenoe
of suoh a proolamation, there 1s no statutory authority
for preventing suoh exports.
In determining not to issue a proolamation, the
President has exeroised the disoretion vested in him by
the statute. He oould not fail to reoognize that the
primary purpose of this statute is to keep this country
out or war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take into
aocount all the pertinent conditions and oiroumstanoes.
Incidentally, I may stress the fact, in view of what is
above stated, that a proolamation would have placed an
embargo on the shipment of the material mentioned not only
to Japan but to China.
The Neutrality Act, moreover, does not authorize the
President or the Seoretary of State under any ciroum-
stanoes to prohibit the export of commodities other than
arms, ammunition, and implements of war. The artioles
and materials whioh are considered to be arms, ammunition,
and implements of war are enumerated in the President's
Proolamation or May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under
Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet International
Traff1e An Arme.
You

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.93)
You may be interested to knew that sinoe July 1,
1937, the Department of state has 1ssued l1eenses for
the export or arms, ammunition, and implements of war
to China in the value of $14, 367,902.30 and to Japan
1n the value or $10,793,865.38.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Aoting Seoretary or State:
Charles w. Yost, Aoting Chief
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
Enolosures:
1. Joint Resolution.
2. Pamphlet.
CR
0141938.PM
ant
0
CA:RVH:GAL:SS
12/8
FE
A true hopy of
CWO
yow
erigi-
nal.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.97)
CA
WASHINGTON COMMITTEE FOR AID TO CHINA
115-15TH STREET, IVISION F
WASHNGTONTRADE AGREEMENTS
REublic 0865
JAN 5 1939
SPONSORS
December 21, 1938
DR. WILLIAM C. ABERNETHY
41989
REV. GEORGE A. ACKERLY
MR. JOHN ANDERSON
DEPARTMENT OF STITE
Janugry
HON. JOHN M. BAER
MRS. GEORGE BARNETT
Mr. Charles W. Yost, Chief
MRs. John BoyLe, JR.
Office of Arms & Munitions Control
DR. H. W. BURGAN
Department of State
TAR EASIERN AFFAINS
DW1938
MRS. DAVID BARR
Washington, D. C.
DR. RUBBELL CLINCHY
MRS. LOUIS COHEN
D
MRS. MEYER COHEN
Dear Mr. Yost,
MRS. WILLSON COMPTON
MRS. MORDECAI EZEKIEL
The comments in your letter of December 14th concerning
DR. E. L. FORD
the resolution passed at the recent dinner at the Lee House.
MR. THEODORE GRABE
which was sponsored by the Washington Committee for Aid to
MRS. ERNEST GRUENING
DR. FREDERICK BROWN HARRIS
China, have been given the closest attention by the members
DR. J. H. HOLLISTER
of our Executive Committee.
RABBI EDWARD ISRAEL
MR. WILBUR LA ROE
We are quite familiar with the facts in connection with
DR. WALTER LOWDERMILK
the trade with Japan and China. Our intention in forwarding
MRS. WALTER LOWDERMILK
this resolution was to inform the Secretary of State that a
MR. ROBERT MARSHALL
894.24/532
MR. WILLIAM J. MILEHAM
group of prominent Washingtonians wished to have every avail-
COL. JULIUS PEYSER
able means used to stop shipments of materials used for war
DR. EDWARD HUGHES PRUDEN
purposes to Japan.
MRS. GEORGE ROSS
DR. CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
You will note that we did not say munitions, as we had
DR. JOHN W. RUSTIN
in mind scrap iron, pig iron, copper, oil, trucks, machine
HON. BYRON N. SCOTT
DR. DANIEL N. SHOEMAKER
tools, and other materials not technically classified as
MR. ARTHUR CLARENDON SMITH
munitions. We have little interest in the small amounts of
HON. HENRY G. TEIGAN
munitions shipped to both Japan and China. The value of
MRS. BENJAMIN WALLACE
the munitions shipped to Japan, using your figures, is
DR. CHARLES WESLEY
approximately one-twenty-fifth of the value of the materials
used for war purposes which are shipped to Japan. Our interest
is definitely in stopping the shipment of these materials to
Japan.
1
We are also familiar with the possibilities of applying
y9.
the Neutrality Act and are quite aware that its application
would be unfavorable to China. It is the belief of this
Committee that such legislation should be repealed, and that
in its place legislation should be enacted which would stop
the shipment of all materials used for war puposes to
aggressor nations (and the State Department has defined Japan
as an aggressor nation) without disturbing normal trade with
11
F/A

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
Mr. Charles W. Yost
-2
December 21, 1938
the victims of aggression. Inasmuch as the State Department
is likely to be consulted in connection with such legislation
at the coming session of Congress, it seems especially
important to call to your attention the opinions presented
at this dinner concerning trade with Japan.
Your attention is also called to the fact that the
President can invoke Section 338 of the Tariff Act, thereby
stopping imports from Japan on the ground that Japan is
discriminating against American trade. In view of the fact
that Japan is closing the "Open Door" in China, there can be
little doubt that Japan is discriminating against American
trade. Doubtless, the President would give careful considera-
tion to any recommendations from the State Department that
this section be invoked.
Thanking you for your careful letter and the material
which you enclosed, I am
Sincerely yours,
NaracelvTruesdell
Horace W. Truesdell
Chairman, Executive Committee

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.94)
January 4 1989
04.84/538
My dear Mr. Truesdell:
The reeeipt is neknowledged of your letter of
December 21, 1938 with further regard to the situation
now obtaining in the Far East.
Your additional observations concerning this matter
and your desire to secure the repeal of the Neutrality
Aet and the enaetment of new legislatiom 1n its stead
894.24/532
have been noted and will receive the most careful eon-
sideration.
Sincerely yours,
For the Aoting Beeretary of State:
Joseph G. Green, Ghief,
CR
Offiee of Arms and Mumitions Contrel
JAN 3 1939 FM
Mr. Merace W. Fruesdell,
Chairman, Emesutive Gommittee,
Washingten Gommistee for Aid to China,
1lis rifteenth Street W.,
Washington, D. C.
rigned origl-
22，：12/33/38
the
nal.
FE
reel

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.94)
EDWARD D. KOHLSTEDT
WILLIAM J. ELLIOTT
TREABURER
THE BOARD OF HOME MISSIONS
AND CHURCH EXTENSION
tate
METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH
1701 ARCH STREET
PHIADELHIA.PA.
000mper 20 1930.
November 28, 1938
FAN LAS!
11AIN
DEC1:938
Vil
apnt
The Honoreble Franklin D. Roosevelt,
President of the United States of America,
Washington, D. C.
Ritt 1nk D
Dear Mr. President:
894.24/533
The Board of Home Missions and Church Exten lon of
the Methodist Epis pal Church at its Annual Meeting held in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, November 17-l9, unanimously adocted
the enclosed resolution, asking for it your serious and favorable
consideration.
Praying that Divine guidance may be your abiding bless-
ing in your supremely important office, I am
Very sincerely yours,
Geage On Bell
944.24
Recording Secretary
GMB/BG
encl.
F/FG
(1

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
WHEREAS, we feel a sense of shame that American raw materials
re being used to manufacture weapons of war in Japan, and that American
planes are being used to carry bombs from America for the destruction of
Chinese civilian populations, that shells from America are loading Japanese
guns, and that America is supplying to Japan huge quantities of scrap
iron, oil, trucks, and other wer materials, over and above the amount
of our normal trade, and
WHEREAS, democracy in China is gravely threatened by the
present Japanese aggression,
BE IT RESOLVED, that we, The Board of Home Missions and
Church Extension of the Methodist Episcopal Church, respectfully petition
the President of the United States and Congress, in the interest of the
people of the United States, China and Japan, to take every practical
means to bring an end to a traffic from our country which is compelling
us to be a partner in the destruction of the Chinese people.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.96)
secomper 20 1938.
My dear Mr. Bell:
By referenee from the white House I acknowledge the
reseipt of your letter of November 28, l9s8 emelosing a
cepy of a reselution in regard to the Far Eastern situm-
tion which wms adopted unanimously by your organisation
894.24/533
at its annual meeting held 1n Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
Movember 17 to 19, 1938.
I appreciate your courtesy in transmitting a copy
of this resolution, wh oh you may be assured will reeeive
the most eareful consideration.
with regard to the export of war and other materials
to Japan, I invite your attention to Section 1 (a) of the
Joint Resolution of May 1, l937, eommonly referred to as
the Neutrality Aot, a oapy of which 1s enelosed, which
provides that whemever the President shall find that
there exists a state of war between or among two or more
foreigm
Mr. Geerge M. Bell,
Recording Seeretary, The Board of Mome Missions
and Chureh Extension of the
Nethodist Episeopal Chareh,
1701 Areh Street,
Philadelphia, Pemasylvania.
F/FG

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
foreign states he shall proelaim sweh fact. Should the
President issue a proclamation finding that a state of
war exists between China and Japan, the export from this
country of arms, ammunition, and implemm ts of war to
beth Chine and Japan would be immediately prehibited.
In the abeemee of smch a proolamation, there is no
statutory authority for preventing sueh exports.
In determining not to issue a proolamation, the
President has exeroised the diseretion vested in him by
the statute. He could not fail to reoognize that the
primary purpose of this statute is to keep this country
out of war, and he, of course, felt obliged to fake into
account all the pertinent conditions and ciroumstances.
Incidentally, I mmy stress the fact, in view of what is
above stated, that a proolamation would have pleced an
embargo on the shipment of the material mentioned not
only to Japan but to China.
The Moutrality Aet, moreover, does not authorise
the President or the Beoretary of state under any oir-
eumstamees to prohibit the export of commodities other
than arms, ammunition, and implements of war. The
artieles and materials which are considered to be arms,
ammunition, and implements of war are exumerated in the
Presidemt's Proelamation of May 1, 1937, whioh is set
fortù

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.93)
forth ueder Part II of the emelesed copy of the pamphlet
Intormetlonal Treffle n Ame.
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1,
1937, the Bepartment of State has 1ssued lieenses for
the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war
to China 1n the value of $14,367,902.30 and to Japan 1n
the value of $10,793,865.38.
I may add, with referenee to the bombing of civillan
populations and the probable danger to Americans and
Ameriean interests abroad, that the Secretary of State
has stated publiely on repeated oocasims that this
Goverament condemns the bombing of civilian populations
or its material eneauragement. The Government's con-
demnation of th s practiee has been expressed direetly
to all manufacturers and exporters in this country of
airplanes and aeronautical equipment.
Sineerely yours,
For the Aoting Beoretary of State:
CR
DEC 19 19
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
DEC 20 1938.
Office of Arms and Munitions Comtrol
Enclesures:
A true co y of
the signe origi-
1. Gow of Beutrality Aot.
2. Pamphlet - Iaternational
nal.
Traffie in Arms.
e
5
Ant
mm.Samge
CA:RVH:MacD: 
12/16
FE pous

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.95)
IT OWNERSHIP AND GOVERNMENT OPERATION OF ALL PUBLIC UTILITIES
California Progressiues
1930.
gile
LOS ANGFI FS CALIFORNIA
0.At
November 28,1938
4ch -115/38
Dvision or
RVH-MFK
To The President
FAM EASTEHN AFFAINS
Franklin Delano hoosevelt
DEC171938
Honored Friend:
Depegimegt of 
In support of American Demooracy, a large group in
Los Angeles has felt a rasponsibility for the murder of
Chinese oivilians for months nast. Locally we have con-
-ducted weak boyootts. Still we know America, and I say
America: not seotions, not corporations nor persons in
America but America is the responsible party, for the
894.24/534
power is ours to ston sending means to Japan to carry on
this murder. This is not war, it is plain murder. Oil
and gasoline are munitions and impliments for that murder.
Cur report shows that forty out of every forty
seven barrels of fuel oil used by Japanese soldiers came
from America.
Must we endure this guilt so that a small number of
profit taking multi-millionaires with a few stock holders
shall diotate the policy of our government and even the
nolicy of our nobel President? We trust not for long.
May we not look to you to take a lead in stopping
this massacre of human souls -- souls of the murdered and
the murderers.
The people are with you. Say the word and I am sure
the power is in your hands to bring to an end this
flagrant cowardice of money grabbing. The Standard Oil
Company's records will expose who defeated Ethiopia.
In boycotting Japanese goods we harm laboring
human beings. In blockading foods from Japan we may
produce hardships and a dictatorship as was done by we
victors over Germany. But in refusing to supply munitions.
gasoline and oil to Japan we stop murder. Consider this
well.
This appeal is from your very own people. We believe
in you and are standing behind you. Our United States is
in the strongest position of all the nations, and justice.
fair play to all and leadership from us must come if the
world is to shake off this curse of war. Let us face our
job, not worrying too much about protecting ourselves.
We remain,with the very best faith and hope,
1F
Respectfully Yours.
FG
Califonnid Bogressive.
Per, H.E ale Atuate
HGA:MS

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.95)
December 19 1938.
My dear Mr. Atwater:
By referemoe from the white House I ackmowledge the
reeeipt of your letter of November 28, 1938 1n regard to
the amport of war and other materials to Japan.
There is tramsmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
894.24/534
Resolutiom of Congress approved May 1, 1937, commonly
referred to as the Weutrality Lot. It will be obeerved
that Sestiom 1(a) of this Joint Resolutiom provides that
whemever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war betweem or among two or more foreigm states
he shall proclaim such faot. Should the President issue
a proolammtiom finding that a state of war exists between
China and Japan, the export from this coumtry of arms, am-
mmitioms, and implements of war to both Chima and Japam
would be immediately prohibited. In the absemce of sush
a
Mr. H. Gale Atwater,
Presidens, Califormia Pregressives,
610 stery Bullding,
Les Angeles, Califermia.
FF
G

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.94)
a preslammtien, there is me statutory autherity fer pre-
venting sueh exports.
In determiming mot to issue a proolamtion, the
Presidemt hes ezereised the dissreticn vested in him 
the statuse. He could not fail to recogaise that the
primmry purpose of this statute is to keep this sountry
out of war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take lnto
accoumt all the pertiment conditims and circumstamoes.
Incidemtally, I mmy stress the fact, in view of what 1s
above stated, that a proolamtiom would have plaeed an
embargo on the shipment of the material mentiomed not
omly to Japan but to China.
The Boutrality Aet, moreover, does mot authorise
the President or the Sesretary of state under any eir-
eumetamees to prohibit the export of commodities other
tham arms, ammmitiom, and implements of war. The
artioles and materials which are considered to be arms,
ammmitios, and implemeats of war are emumerated in the
Presidemt's Proclamtiom of May 1, 193?, which 1s set
forth mder Part II of the emelosed copy of the pamphlet
You my be iaterested to kmow that sinee July 1,
1937, the Department of state has issued lieemses for
ao

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.93)
the expert of arms, ammmitien, ame implements of var to
China in the value of $14,367,908.30 and to Japam 1n the
valme of $10,793,865.38.
simeerely yours,
Fer the Asting Seeretary of state:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief,
Office of Arms and Wmitioms Comtrol
Enslesures:
1. Joimt Resolution.
2. Pamphlet.
ORH
DEC 17 19383
DEC 19 1938
Qe
CA:RVHIMEK: SS
FE
12/15/38
nou
25

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.78)
764 Summit An,
Taradeue, Calif.
Decr 2- 1938.
ECÊIVEL
'rt
Division of
AND REGORDS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIKS
DEC1619,38
Is corres
844.24
omane Maissionary riociely of the Mashinglon
St. M. E. Chreh Ihae Feen euisled to mile
you Cmeerning de falanese Oninese ma
 He, as imericou ciligins, irolest the tutal
craorise thl rutmise e ama sler Ihat ses
goria on over there  mar, Ihe cant
5
re derand DrtThes maolesate aes
te pold ove verementres comsile
wold ae o s ndt sa
to carny ou.
F
mefarioge jusiness ia reliare we
to coudemn itler ior mat ne is loning
in xGerrnaup!

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
Chinese Civilians
d By One Japanese Bomb
pan may win the most battles but eventually will lose her wai
China, J. Gordon Harrell, former Shanghai newspaper editor and
 correspondent, declared yesterday in addressing the Pasadena
Exchange Club.
Mr. Harrell gave a dramatic ac-
ment, is forced to play a retreating
count of his experiences in the war
game.
He seld he witnesed the killing of
"By retreating into Central China,
the Chinese army extends the Japa-
1900 Chinese civilians by the drop-
nese lines over a greater area. It
ping of one gigantic bomb from the
takes 10 Japnaese behind the lines
to keep one soldier at the front.
"I saw with my ewn eyes Jap-
This is expensive for Japan.
"Already the Japanese are operat-
priseners ià a vacant field, sat-
ing this war on credit from other
wrate them with oll and burn
nations. They are gambling their
them to death," Mr. Harrell said.
every resource that they will come
Newspaper accounts of Japanesc
out on top." Mr. Harrell said.
dvances and numerous victories
"The Japanese army advances
Go not indicate that China is los-
ir the day time but the Chinese
ing the war, he said. China, handi-
eapped by lack of modern equip-
(Continued on Page Thirteen)

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.96)
h:
m
p.
p.
r
B
Chinese
ji
tt
the
ti
jar-
(Continued from Page Nine)
fi
come back at night. It is after
at
an-
might fall that they do their most
has
effective work. Japanese censors
ji
to
keep it out of print, but I know
c
can
that at least so0,0èe Japanese sol-
51
un-
diers have beem killed by bands
d
bing
of géerrilla warriors.
it
rta-
"I may be sticking my neck out,
th
not
but I predict that Japan will come
n
hift
to the end of her financial rope in
ter-
six or eight months. When an armi-
ize-
stice comes, it will be one in which
China will neither grant territorial
ir
on-
rights nor pay reparations," he
18
in
said.
R
ith
Mr. Harrell was introduced by
w
rn-
Max Colwell. The Exchange Club
pi
of
voted to attend in a body the Tour-
ow
nament of Roses Kick-off luncheon
Ha-
December 30.
hat

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.71)
l enciosed cnpeirg mas cut out
he Pasadena Mn nida rst oJee 138.
How much lonacr mi me seur susplin
sibilbity
In the mame of sirstice and numan-
ily me ask that er oreenment
being seut to ban:
fecrs rei mly
lefking

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.96)
secember 17 12593.
My dear Mrs. Riee!
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
December 2, 1938 in regard to the export of war and
other materials.
There is tranmmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
894.24/535
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, commonly
referred to as the Noutrality Aet. It will be observed
that Seetion 1(a) of this Joint Resolution prevides that
whemever the President shall find that there exiets a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall preelaim such fact. Should the Presidont 1ssue
a preelamation finding that a state of war exists between
China and Japan, the export from this country of arms,
ammunition, and implements of war to both China and Japan
would be immediately prohibited. In the abeenee of such a
preelamation
Mrs. Ben Riee,
Cerresponding Secretary,
Weman's Missionary Soslety of the
Washington Street Methodist Church,
Té4 Bummit Avenue
Pasadona, Califermia.
F/FG

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.92)
2
pweelamatien, there is ne statutery autherity for prevent.
ing euch experts.
In dotermining not to issue a preelamation, the Presi-
dont has exereised the dieeretien vested in him by the
statute. Ne could mot fail to reeogaise that the primary
purpese ef this statute is to keep this eountry cut ef mar,
and he, of course, folt obliged to sake inte ascount all
the pertinent conditions and cireumstamees. Ineidentally,
I may stress the faot, in view of what is above stated,
that a proslamation would have plaeed an embargo on the
shipment of the material mentioned not only to Japan but
te China.
The Meutrality Aet, mereever, does not authorise the
President or the Seeretary of state under any eiroumstanees
to prehibit the export of commodities other than arms,
ammumition, and implements of war. The artieles and materi-
als which are considered to be arms, ammunition, and ia-
plements of war are enumerated in the President's Proelame-
tion of May 1, 1937, whieh 1s set forth under Part II of
the enelesed cepy of the pamphlet Intormational Traffie 1
.
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has issued lisenses for the expert
of

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.94)
of arms, ammmmitien, and implements ef wer to chime is
the value ef $14, 367,902.30 and to Japan 1n the value
ef $10,793,866.38.
I mey add with referenee to the bembing of eivilian
pepulatiems and the probable danger te Amerieane end
Ameriean interests abreed, that the Seeretary ef State
has stated publiely en repeated oseasions that this Gev-
erament cendemne the bombing of civilian pepulatiome er
1te material exeouregement. The Gevermment's comtemme-
sion ef this practiee has been expressed direetly sè all
memufacturers and experters in this country of airplames
and seremeutical equipment.
Simeerely yours,
For the Acting Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Test, Assistent Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Centrol
Enelesures:
1. Jeint Reselution
appreved May 1, 1937.
2. Intermatiemal Traffie
in Arms pemphlet.
A true copy of
the signed orjgi.
DEC 17 1958.
nal.
FE

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.95)
eH
The Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America
INCORPORATED
TELEPHONE GRAMERCY
8-8475
CABLE ADDRESS "PEDCIL"
297 Fourth Avenue
New York, N. Y.
MARY E. WOOLLEY
EDGAR DEWITT JONES
CHAIRMAN
PRESIDENT
JAMES H. FRANKLIN
JOSEPH R. BIZOO
VICE-CHAIRMAN
VICE-PRESIDENT
WALTER W. VAN KIRK
FRANK H. MANN
Department of
International Justice and Goodwill
SAMUEL MCCREA CA
December 27, 1988.
RVH
Pvicion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAN
ack 1/6/39
Honorable Cordell Hull
RVH-mek
Secretary of State
1A799
744.24
Washington, D. C.
894.24/536
eoorme So
My dear Mr. Hull:
In compliance with the instructions
of the Biennial Meeting of the Federal Council of the
Churches of Christ in America held recently at Buffalo,
New York, I am forwarding to you the attached statement,
calling to your special attention the third and the last
paragraphs.
We would deeply appreciate any comment
which you are prepared to make concerning our specific
roquest in the closing paragraph.
Respectrully yours,
RPB:S

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
ACTION OF THE PEDERAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN AMRRICA
Buffalo, N. Y. - December 9, 1938
The Federal Couneil of the Churches of Christ in merice protests against
the aggression of the armed forces of Japan in China, and especially against the
frequent and widespreed outrages against the civilian population.
But while we deplore the conflict we are humiliated by the knowledge that
some chureh agencies and institutions as well as many individual members are
implicated through investments in firms which traffie in war supplies.
The Couneil commends those involved in the eiroraft industry who have
declined during recent months to enter into new contracts for sales to Japan.
The voluntary discontinuance of sales of essential war materials such as oil,
motor trucks and scrap iron is a necessary further step. It therefore urges
those carrying on such trade to demonstrate their loyalty to moral principle by
saerificing the profits thus derived.
The Couneil appeals also to the churches and their agencies and institu-
tions whieh have funds invested in commercial enterprises dealing in war mater-
ials to make inquiry concerning their export trade. If the ascertained facts
justify, we then urge them to exert appropriate influence through stockholders'
and bondholders' protests or otherwise, thus endeavoring to effect such changes
of policy as are indicated to be imperative to achieve the above-mentioned
objoetives.
The Council recommends similar action by individuals who derive profit
from much trade through personal service or investment.
The Couneil would also express its deep concern for the welfare of the
people of both China and Japan and earnestly warn against belligerent feelings
toward either people. Rather let us be constantly in prayer for the people of
those two nations especially that the counsels of justice and goodwill may pre-
vail and a stable peace be established.
We hereby instruct the Department of International Justice and Goodwill as
follows:
(1) To communicate the Council's commendation to those involved
in the airoraft industry who have declined during recent
months to enter into new contracts for mles to Japan.
(2) To use every opportunity to make contacts with those who
are in positions of suthority and influence to the end that
the above recommendations may be carried out.
(3) To communicate this action to the Secretary of State with
the request that he use his influence to persuade those
coneerned who are now selling mr supplies to Japan to
discontinue voluntarily such practice.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.95)
January 12 1989
My dear Mr. Barnes:
The reseipt is acknowledged of your letter of Deeem-
ber 27, 193s emelosing a statement prepared by your orgasi-
sation in whieh reference is made direetly to the situatiom
mow obtaining in the Tar East and indireetly to this De-
894.24/536
partment's astion in July in urging the mnufacturers and
expertere in this country of airplanes and seromautieal
equipmest not to sell or export their produsts to eoumtries,
the armed forees of whieh were engaged in the bombing of
eivilian populations from the air.
Your courtesy in furniahing the Department with the
statement is greatly appreciated and you may be sure that
it will reseive the most careful consideratiom.
I mmy add that the Department is always gratified to
reeeive
Mr. Roswell P. Barnes,
Asseeiate Sesretary, The Pederal Cowmeil
Of the Churehes of Christ in Ameriea Imeerperated,
2o7 Fourth Avenne,
Bew York, New York.
F

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.93)
0
reccive frem thoughtful sourees expressions ef epimion
on matters relating to foreign afsairs and to give ame
weight to these opimions in conjunetiem with all the
other fastors involved in the formalation of our fereign
pol2og.
with regard to your organization's recommendatien
that an effort be made to persuade the manufasturers and
exporters of war supplies other than airplanes and mero-
nautieal equipment to discontinue voluntarily the shipment
of sueh prodmets to Japan, I have to inform you that the
Department's representations to the manufacturers in this
country of airplanes and aeronautieal equipment were based
upon this country's general and unreserved condemnation,
to which the seeretary has given expresslon repeatedly in
public utteranees, of the bombing of oivilian populations.
It was, as you will realize, e most exeeptional case with
which the Department had to deal in this instanee. In
this conneetion I believe you will recognize that, in view
of the fact that licenses are not required for the export
of artieles and materials other than arms, ammumition and
implememts of war, it would be practieally impossible to
make effective, with respest to the export of mch artieles
as

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.89)
and materials, a poliey similar to that adopted in the
ease of airplanes and aeronautieal equipment.
sineerely yours,
For the smtimg Seeretary of state:
B. WALTON MOORE
Counselor
OR
JAN 7 1939 PM
H
JAN  19380PM
JAN 11 1939
C.
D
ye
Ant
the algnec o
Co:RVH:MIK/u
1-6

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
ST. OLAF STUDENT BODY
ST. OLAF COLLEGE NORTHFIELD, MINNESOTA
December 1, 1938
ccember 23 1930.
894.24
11938
RYNIMHP
a.4k/2/20
The Honorable Mr. Franklin D. Roosevelt
The Presidert of the United States
on of
White House
AFFAIRS
VWashington, District of Columbia
.1938
Sir:
894.24/537
In view of the cravity of the situation in the
Far Last, and knowing that we are supported by all liberty-
loving Americant, we s a Student Body pas: ed the enclosed
resolution.
1t is to us of utmost importance that America act
consistently with democrttic and Christian ideals in such
an emergency, and ve feel sure that there is only one right
course. Therefore, we are sendine to you, our president,
our wishes in this m: tter, and are asking that for the sake
of humanity, justice, and the peaceful future of our country
and the worid,you exert all influence to meke America, in
deed as well as in word, guiltless in this brutal var.
Respectfully,
Winifred Nansen
Winifred Hansen
Secretary
St. Olaf student Body
F/FG
EDWARD SOVIK, President  DONALD HEGNES, Vice President  WINIFRED HANSEN, Secretary  ARNE SOVIK, Treasurer

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.96)
ST. OLAF STUDENT BODY
ST. OLAF COLLEGE NORTHFIELD, MINNESOTA
WHEREAS Japan has broken faith with the united Statcs and
other n tions by her unprovoked invasion of China and ras
conductcd that undeclared var in a way which is intolerable
to modern civilizatior, and,
WHEREAS it is coanon knowledge that ever as the United
states is s enaine hundred: of millions to : nn for defense
acainst Jupan, ve : re furnichine to Jupen, the e cressor
natior, over helf of t: e imyortant materials needed for the
prosecutior of the prescnt war, ana cre, therefore as a
nation, ourselves uilty of innocent blood;
now therefore, be it
RESOLVED, that the clever hundred students of :t. Olaf
college, as a body, call upon t.e President and on our
overnment to take decisive ste  to stop tle exportation
to Jayan of all matericls vteful in war, anu to iscourare
tre exteision of economic aid to Japan, thus vinuicatirt
our pesition as a people opposed to ateression and inhumanity.
Northfield, Minnesota
December 1, 1978
EDWARD SOVIK, President  DONALD HEGNES, Vice President  WINIFRED HANSEN, Secretary  ARNE SOVIK, Treasurer

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.92)
secomber 23
1938.
My dear Mise Mansen:
By referemee from the White House, I aekmewledge
the reeeipt of your letter ef December 1, l9ss, emeles-
ing a sepy of a reselution in regard to the situatiem
894.24/537
now obtaining In the Far East, whieh wes adopted y the
Student Body of St. Olaf College.
Your eourtesy in tranemitting a copy of this reselu-
siem is greatly appreeiased, and you may be sure that 18
vill receive appropriate consideration.
There is tranemitted herewith a cepy of the Jeimt
Reselution of Congress approved May 1, 1939, commemly
referred to as the Noutrality Aet. It will be obeerved
thas Seetion 1(a) of this Joint Reselution prevides shat
shenever the President shall find that there existe a
state
Mes Winifred Mansen,
Seeretary, St. Olaf student Beey,
ss. Zaf Gollege,
Sertmfiele, Mimnesete.
F/FG

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.89)
0
stase of ver between er emeng twe or mere ferelge states
he chall preelaim such faet. should the Presidemt tosme
a preelamation fimeing thes a state ef war existe betwesm
Ghime and Japen, the expert frem this coumtry of eree,
ammmnitlen, and Lmplemente of var to beth Gaine and Japan
woule be immedsstely prehibeted. In the abeemee of sush
a preelamatien, there 1s me statutery eutherity for pre-
vemting eueh experte.
In cetermining met to lssue a preelmmetion, the
President hae exerelsed the diseretien vested in hin by
the statute. Me could mot fail to reeegaise that the
primary purpese of this stetute ls to keep this coumtry
out of war, and be, of course, folt obliged to take lmte
acccumt all the pertinemt conditions and eirewmetamses.
Insidemtally, I may atress the faet, in view of what is
abeve stated, that a preelmmatien would have pleeed am
embarge en the shipment of the material mentloned not
ealy to Japem but to Chine.
The Neutrality Let, moreever, dees met mutherize
the President er the Beeretary ef state weder aay eir-
cumetamees to prehibit the expert of commedities ether
them arme, ammamitien, and implemente of wer. The
artieles and materiale which are considered te be ares,
ammumisien, end implemente ef war are emmmerated in the
President's Preelmatien of May 1, 193y, which 1s set
foooa

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.84)
forth under Fare 2x of the ensleced copp of the pamphnet
Aaternatlenal Iratfia An Arme.
You may bo interested to knew that eimee July 1,
1937, the Departmems of State has 1esued 11ecnsee for
the expert of arme, emmmitien, and implemente of wer
to Chise 1n the value of 814,307,802.30 mnd to Japam
1a the value ef 10,895,86s.38.
Simeerely yours,
For the Aating Seeretary of State:
Charles &. Yest, Aasistamt Chief
Ofriee of Arms and Mumitions Contrel
Emelesures:
1. Joint Roselution.
2. Pamphlet.
OR15
DIC 22 1958
finhed origt
5. amt
GA: RVE: MMP 1 SS
FE
ey
12/20
と0

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.95)
ESENTING
THE
NATIONAL
PEACE
CONFERENCE
Connecticut Branch
Taft
LEAGUE of NATIONS ASSOCIATION, Inc.
dent
supporting
OFPAPTMEN
EDWARD P. SPITZNER
A universal League of Nations functioning effectively "to promote internationaf
Tressurer
ELEY COX
cooperation and to achieve international peace and security."
WAYNE W. WOMER
SWORTH HUNTINGTON
Field Organiser
HASE KIMBALL
MRS. KINGSBURY MATSON
Vise-Prosidents
Chairman, Speekers Buroan
PAUL P. SWETT, Ja.
138 ORANGE STREET, NEW HAVEN
E. WIGHT BAKKE, Cheirmes,
Secretery
Int. Labor Orgenization Comm.
TELEPHONE, 6-6417
DIVISION OF
BOAD OF DIBEOTORS
COMMUNIONS
894.24
Devere Allen, Wilton
James Rowland Angell, New Haven
AND RECORDS
Robbins Wolcott Barstow, Hartford
To The Honorable Cordell IHuli
George J. Bassett, New Haven
DEA138
Dr. Katharine Blunt, New London
Secretary of State
Olareace W. Bronson, New Haven
Charles R. Brown, New Haven
secomber 21 1958.
ad12/838
AHMEK
Irving H. Chase, Waterbury
A. Bryan Clark, Jr., New Haven
William G. Oleaver, Hamden
John A. Ooe, Waterbury
Frederick M. Cowles, Wallingford
used to nanufacture wea ens of war in Japan,
Wilbur L. Oross, New Haven
Paul P. Cruikshank, Watertown
Homer S. Oummings, Stamford
John Sherman Custer, Avon
American planes driven py Arorican asoline are
Robert G. DeForest, Bridgeport
Mrs. Joseph A. De Ghuse, Stamford
Wilbur B. Deming, Washington
Louise B. Dillingham, Middlebury
killina Chinese civilians witih Amorican-made
Ward E. Duffy, West Hartford
Alberta 0. Edell, Waterbury
Mrs. Arthur Fairbanks Ells, Litchfeld
bombs, shells from Arorica aro loadina Jananese
894.24/
John P. Elton, Waterbury
Clyde O. Fisher, Middletown
Mrs. Irving Fisher, New Haven
Lewis Fox, Hartford
guns, and our country is sollin to Japan over
Brownell Gage, Suffield
Bessie L. Gambrill, Hamden
Timothy Watson Goodrich, Bloomfield
Henry Solon Graves, New Haven
50f of the screp iron, copue, oi1, trucks, and
George Herbert Gray, New Haven
Theodore Ainsworth Greene, New Britain
Charles Welles Gross, Hartford
Spencer Gross, Hartford
other meterials she munt irport to carry on her
O. C. Hemenway, Hartford
5
Stanley High, Noroton
Robert W. Hoskins, Windsor
Roy M. Houghton, New Haven
var,
Mrs. Alice E. Howell, Bethany
8
Daniel Howard, Windsor
O. P. Ives. New Haven
TEFon we, mombers of the Connocticut
Eleanor Hope Johnson, Hartford
Mrs. W. B. Johnson, New Britain
Mrs. Douglas A. Johnston, New Britain
Elmer D. Keith, North Haven
Lea me of ations Asnociation in annual meeting,
Henry W. Lawrence, New London
Halleck Lefferts, Pomfret
Sidaey Lovett, New Haven
James L. McOonaughy, Middletown
respectfully petition the Con ress of the United
Jasper MeLevy, Bridgeport
Charles G. Morris, New Haven
FILED
Mrs. Randolph P. Nason, Hartford
States to bring to an ond this traffic, which is
Roscoe Nelson, Hartford
Marie Kimball Page, Hartford
Henry A. Perkins, Hartford
Walter Perry, New Haven
cempollin us to be a partner in tho destruction
Emily Louise Plumley, Stamford
Bockwell Harmon Potter, Hartford
John B. Pullman, Bridgeport
Alfred H. Rapp, Berlin
of tho Chineso neople.
Thomas F. Richardson, Hamden
T. Lewrason Riggs, New Haven
Caroline Ruuts-Rees, Greenwich
George O. St. John, Wallingford
Heary Schenck, Stamford
George H. Shafer, Willimantic
lorace D. Taft, President,
Joseph G. Shapiro, Bridgeport
FAM LASIENN AFIAINS
Odell Shepard, Hartford
Arthur N. Sheriff, Oheshire
DEC171938
Mrs. Van Allen Shields, Ridgefeld
Florence L.C. Kitchelt,
Frederic C. Smedley, Waterbury
Mrs. Blliots Dunlap Bmith, New Haven
Banford Stoddard, Bridgeport
Dep:
Tm
mro.)
Secretary.
Mrs. K. Augusta Sutton, Danbury
Herace D. Taft, Watertown
William Lonsdale Tayler, Woodstock
Leslie H. Thompson, Branford
F/FG
Josephine A. Veeder, Hartford
Mrs. Kenneth E. Walser, Darien
Geerge D. Watrous, New Haven
Emally H. Whitney, New Haven
Dec. 2nd, 1938
O.-B. A. Wiaslow, New Haven
138 Orange Street
New Haven, Conn.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
To Secretary Hull:
The Connecticut League of Nations Association, at
1ts annual meeting in New Haven Dec. 2nd, 1938 heartily
endorses our Government's prompt action, in cooperation
with other nations, in efforts to find sanctuary for
peoples in Germany and Central Europe oppressed by racial
and religious persecution.
While expressing our deep abhorrence of these per-
secutions in other lands, it is proper to remember our
high duty here to uphold our own Constitution guaranteeing
for the United States the fundamentals of social justice.
Finally, we petition our government to strengthen the
machinery of international cooperation, which is the only
method for saving the lives of these hundreds of thousands
of innocent victims from those countries where they lack
the protection of law.
IHorace D. Taft, President,
Florence L.C. Kitdhelt,
Secretary.
138 Orange Street
New Haven, Connecticut

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
To Secretary Hull.
The Connecticut League of Nations Association, at
1ts annual meeting in New Haven Dec. 2nd, 1938 heartily
endorses our Government's prompt action, in cooperation
with other nations, in offorts to find sanctuary for
peoples in Gormany and Central Lurope oppressed by racial
and religious persecution.
While expressing our deop abhorrenco of these per-
secutions in other lands, it is proper to remember our
high duty here to uphold our owm Constitution guaranteeing
for the United States the fundamentals of social justice.
Finally, we petition our government to strengthen the
machinery of international cooperation, which is the only
method for saving the lives of those hundreds of thousands
of innocent victims from those countries whore they lack
the protection of law.
Horace D. Taft, President,
Florence L.C. Kitdhelt,
Secretary.
138 Orange Street
New Haven, Connecticut

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.90)
pecember 21 1958.
.
Ny Gear Br. Taft:
I aekmewledge the receipt of a resolution dated
Desember 2, 193s adopted by your organisation petition-
ing the Congress to prohibit the export of war and
other mterials to Japan. I also aomowledge the re-
894.24/538
eeipt of eopies of twe other resolutions which ascom-
pamiod the reselution under aokmowledgment, ome of
whieh is in regard to the amendment of the Beutrality
Ast in eertain respeete and the other of which is is
regard to the Cemtral European refugee situation.
Your courtesy in furmishing the Department with
these resolutions is greatly appreciated and you my
be assured that they will reseive the most eareful
consideratiem. I mmy add that the Department is always
gratified
Hereee D. Taft, L.B.D., LL.D.,
Masieme Lesseiati, Ime.,
1se Oranee street.
Be Baven, éstieut.
F/FG

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
gratified to receive from thoughtful sourees expressioms
of opiniom on mtters relating to foreign affairs and to
give due weight to these opimioms in comjumotion with all
the other faotors involved im the formulation of our
foreign polioy.
With a view to aoquainting you with the present posi-
tion of this Government in regard to the Far Eastern
situation, I desire to invite your attention to Seotion 1-a
of the Joint Resolution of Congrese approved Way 1, l937,
a copy of whioh is enclosed for your convenient reference,
whioh provides that whenever the President shall find that
there exists a state of war between or among two or more
foreigm states he shall proclaim such fact. Should the
President issue a proclamation finding that a state of
war exists between China and Japan, the export from this
country of arms, ammnitions, and implements of war to
both China and Japan would be immediately prohibited.
In the absence of such a proclamation, there is no statu-
tory authority for preventing suoh exports.
In determining not to issue a proolamation, the
President has exeroised the disoretion vested in him by
the statute. He could not fail to recognize that the
primary purpose of this statute is to keep this country
out of war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take into
acc oumt

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
account all the pertinent conditioms and circumstamees.
Imoidemtally, I my stress the faot, in view of what is
above stated, that a proolamation would have plaoed am
embargo on the shipment of the material mentioned not
only to Japan but to China.
The Weutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize the
President or the Secretary of State umder any ciroumetanees
to probibit the export of commodities other than arms,
ammumition, and implements of war. The articles and
mterials whioh are considered to be arms, ammmition,
and implements of war are enumerated in the President's
Proolamation of May 1, 1937, which is set forth under
Part II of the enclosed copy of the pamphlet International
Traffio in Arms.
You may be interested to know that since July,1,
193?, the Department of State has issued lioenses for the
export of arme, armnition, and implements of war to China
in the value of $14,367,903.30 and to Japan in the value
of $10,793,865.38.
I may add with reference to the bombing of oivilian
populations and the probable danger to Americans and
American interests abroad, that the Seoretary of State
has stated publioly on repeated occasions that this
Government

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.95)
Govermmemt condems the bombing of civilian populatioms
or its material enoouragement. The Govermment's com-
demation of this practice has been expressed directly
to all manufaoturers and exporters in this coumtry of
airplanes and aeronautical equipment.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Aoting Seoretary of State:
H.WALTON MOORE
Counselor
Enclosures:
. Joint Resolution.
2. Pamphlet.
CR
DEC 20 1938. PM
CA:RVH:MEK:8S
FE
0
12/16/38
ew

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.97)
"PROTESTANTISM UNITED for THE EXTENSION of THE KINGDOM"
The Church Federation of Sarramento
Y. M. C. A. BUILDING, SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA
December 3, 1938
enemper 32 1938.
1938
ache 12-20-
RrH/mHP
894.24
The President,
Washington, D. C.
AM LASTERN AFFAIRS
Dear President Roosevelt:
1938
894.24/539
passed by the Church Councir or Sacramento representing
more than 10,000 Sacramento Protestants asking that
immediate steps be taken to end the sale and shipment
to the Japanese government of war materials.
Respectfully,
CHURCH COUNCIL OF SACRAMENTO
John +Wrodacd
By
John F. Woodard,
President.
F/FG

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
WHRRRAS, Japan is engaged in the destruction of China's
school system as indicated by the complete levelling of such
universities as Nankai in Tientsin, indicating that Japan
does not propose to tolerate free thought in China,
WHERRAS, the bombing of many colleges in Shanghai by
Japanese planes and artillery makes it clear that these seats
of learning are especially targets for her army,
WHEREAS, many colleges in Peking have been converted in-
to barracks for Japanese soldiers,
WHEREAS, our mission schools in the conquered districts
are now being visited systematically by Japanese instructors
who decide what shall and shall not be taught,
WHEREAS, in the Baptist, Presbyterian, Methodist, Con-
gregationalists and Christian schools histories and geogra-
phies are being altered to suit the Japanese army propaganda
bureau, and
WHEREAS, the American-built Tsing Hai University in Pe-
king, constructed from United States Boxer Indemnity Funds,
has been taken over by the Japanese war lords, and
WHEREAS, the rape of Nanking forms the most hideous and
tragic page in the bicody history of our 2Oth century, and
WHEREAS, in the opinion of experts Japan would be com-
pelled to end its military operations in China if it did not
receive the materials for munitions of war, such as the lead
shipments bought by Japan on a cash-and-carry basis as has
been photographed on our Pacific Coast wharves,
NOW, THEREFORE, the Church Council of Sacramento, repre-
senting over 10,O00 Sacramento Protestants, requests that the
President and Congress of the United States take immediate
steps to end the sale and shipment to the Japanese government
of war materials.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.92)
●ecembar 22 1955.
dear Mr. Weedard:
By referenee frem the white Nouse I aeknewledge
the reseipt of your letter of December 3, 19se,
trememitsing the reselution which wes adopted by your
doumeil in regard to the export of war materials to
894.24/539
Japen.
There 1s transmitted herewith a cony of the Joint
Resolutlon of Congress approved May 1, 1937, commonly
referred to as the Neutrality Aet. It will be obeerved
that Beetion 1(a) of this Jeint Resolution provides that
whemever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war betweem or emeng twe er more fereigm statee
he shell proelaim such feet. should the Presidemt iseue
e proelamation finding that a state of wer exists between
Chime and Japem, the expert frem this country of arme,
ammumition
Br. Johm P. Woodare,
Presidems, The Chareh Goume1l ef Sesramente,
F/FG
Y.  C. A. Bailaing.
Seeremente, Gallfosnie.

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.91)
0
mamisten, and implemente of war to beth Chtan and Japen
would be 1mmediately prehibited. In the abeenee ef sush
a proclmmation, there le me statutery autherity for pre-
veating ouch emporte.
In determining mot to lssse a preelemstion, the
Presidemt hes erereised the discretien vessed in him by
the statute. Ne could mot fail tn reeegnise that the
primary purpose of this statute is to keep thin country
out of war, and he, of eouree, felt obliged to take inte
ascommt all the pertinent conditiore and ciroumstanees.
Ineidentally, I may strees the faet, in view of what 10
above stated, that a proelamation would have placed an
embarge om the shipment of the materlal mentioned mot
only to Japam but to China.
The Neutrality Aet, moreever, doee net authorise
the President er the Seeretary of state under amy eir-
eumstamees to prehibit the export o'f commodities ether
them arms, semmition, end implemente of war. The
artielee and materiels whieh are considered to be arms,
ammumitien, and implememts of war are ememereted in the
President's Preelamatiom of May 1, 193t, whieh 1s set
ferth under Part II of the emelesed copy of the pemphlet
Xatermatlanal Irattle La Arma.
You may be interested to kmew thst simee July 1,
1959, the Bepertmemt of state has 1ssued lieenses for

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.89)
-3
the export ef arme, mmmmitien, mad implememts ef war
to Chima 1n the value of 14,307,902.30 and to Japem
1n the value or $10,89,865.38.
I m y ard, vith referemee to the bombing of eiviliam
populatione an: the probable danger to Amerleams and
Amerioan intoreate abroed, that the Searotary of Btate
has stated publicly on repeated oeoacions thnt this
Govermmemt condemne the bombing of civilirn populatlons
or itr moterlal encouragement. The Covernment's con-
demnatlon of thle preotics hae been expreseo' dirrotly
to all mnnufacturers and exportere in thie country of
alrplanes and neronautical • uloment.
Sinoerely youre,
or th Aoting See etary of st-te:
Ch rles H. Yout, Ao=istant Oh of
Orrioe of Arms and Munixtonn Control
Enolosures:
1. Jo1nt Resolution.
2. l'amphlet.
DEC
CA:RVHIMHP:SS
FE
reuy
12/20

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.62)
  e re by t
   W ac o
acu ko curcarc,  hune uhy
u l
a ki
dunai  aptid. surely ds
he  l
teacn der itch i katere

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.75)
emer 19 1950.
894.24/540
MRS JOSEPH F. GRIGGS
AM CASTERN AFTAINS
of stalo
DEC7-1938
LEC9-193
1938 DEC 11 23
Department of Stal:
in éloell are poeder
 t aa i eucresstny
a avrive necter Relie the
whiele Elly teaa cieai 54 fele
e met echsicadicre a Chena
Iiney lm eve a scterty lang
 a hene rerull by the
amine sentel yoithey
en ellomn a mar calc
durai t atappca. Surely de
cifeachee  er Qerekan
teasle dri wrth a katere

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.76)
894.24/540
A EASTEN AFI NS
CEC91938
138 DEC 5 AM 123
Dear Ker. sayre:
DUSover chee Uniled
Steeianhoh peakle are pred
ng the glaring eueresuste
894.24
of gioug lo Chenkee Relief the
rahele they read eteal 54 e
ceul it Sapais supplier fo c
rmg by ty sulyugalire of che
are shipked :Jroun ege locent
Whey are cve. a Seberty ha
eakle bng criferueet by
shameful fael? Wnll yoi
re keud  to explaen 
acu so curines I thure why
etu slupcuent of war reat
canral be stapped. Surely
yupachce, of ete lamere
People dee with a natiny

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.75)
coupleaged 
fon tren ony iting
p qceate
Ythes did, Mr seerelary.
beg Joi au auuni lo wmy
qustion Respretfully
Nau Gorders rister.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.76)
Fighleng
agaevelNoverukele
o loscuett Cauton efler
Jerel bruting Je Jeneary
retrrned o China
aked in a
lette, ereten ou
Oclaber livelfct
she ke, ther lo say.
ctean She kiuner ugch ker foleey
of laisely Jairs and ganfel nde
 Chena lres, Aerecal
lerence.
need rert kelp etean evilefeel
chinking and enenereging artle
in reeglegines ettal lull u ints
slereld, Americe cal
H sht
lol coupletely her Ouenlal
warkelt withith a fer ye
for, rrch Chenes rleurdes,

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.94)
Denember 19 1958.
My dear Mrs. Griggs:
The reseipt is aokmowledged of your letter of Deeem-
ber 4, 19ss addressed to the Honorable Franeis B. Sayre,
Assistant Seoretary of state, in regard to the export of
894.24/540
war supplies to Japan.
There is tranemitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1. l937, commonly
roferred to as the Woutrality Lot. It will be obeerved
that Sestiom 1(a) of this Joint Resolutiom provides that
whemever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war betweem or among two or more foreign states
he shall preelaim sueh fast. should the President tesue
a proelamtion finding that a state of war exists between
China and Japan, the export from this comtry of arms,
ammmitions, and implememts of war to both China and
Japen
Irs. Joseph 7. Grie,
116 Bast Tuelfth street,
F/FG
Glasememt, Galifermia.

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.96)
-3
Japan would be immediately prohibited. In the absemoe of
suoh a proolamatiom, there 1s no statutory authority for
prevemting suoh exports.
In determining not to iseue a proclamation, the
President has exeroised the disoretion vested in him by
the statute. He oould not fail to reoogaize that the
primry purpose of this statute is to keep this oountry
out of war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take into
acoount all the pertinent conditions and ciroumstances.
Inoidentally, I my stress the fact, in view of what is
above stated, that a proclamation would have plaoed an
emargo on the shipment of the mmterial mentioned not
only to Japan but to China.
The Teutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize the
President or the ceoretary of State under any cirounstances
to prohibit the export of conmoditiee other than arme,
anmunition, and implements of war. The art' es and
materials which are consldered to be arns, an" aition, and
inplements of war are enumerated in the reside 's Proolamm-
ti on of ay 1, 1937, wh'ch 1s set forth under Part IT of
the enolosed copy of the parphlet Tnternational Traffio
1040.
You may be interested to know that s'noe July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has iseued licenses for the ex-
port of arme, amnunition, and !rplements of war to China
1n

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.95)
-3
in the valwe of $14,367,902.30 and to Japan in the valme
of $10.793,865.38.
I my add with reference to the bombing of oivilian
populations and the probable danger to Amerioans and Amer1-
eam interests abroad, that the Secretary of State has
stated publioly on repeated ocoasions that this Govern-
ment condems the bombing of civilias populatione or its
mterial emoouragement. The Government's condemation of
this praotioce has been expressed aireotly to all manu-
facturers and exporters in this country of airplanes and
aeromautioal equipment.
Sincerely yours,
For the Aoting Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yoft, Assistant Chief,
Office of Arms and Mmitions Control.
Enclosures:
1. Joint Resoiution.
a. Pamphlet.
DLe1938
DEC 1: 1938.
7
CA:RVH:MEK:88
FE
13/16/38

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.80)
sing Manager
SOHIO VALLEY333
LABOR TEMPLE
WHEELING.W. VA
De. , 1.
Hon. Frankl in . Roosevelt
Doviston of
Thite louse,
PAnASI ArTAINS
it
Tas..inrton, D.c.
oomper 18 1900
My Der Mr. rresiuet:
An
We wisn to raise oi voTle aTong witn the cany
thousands who have also written to you, in resaru to
a matter which. i. of reat siniricae: to te Iuture
or De" ocratic prineipl  in the worlu.
The ese ovr ent s, inc e oorea
or her agressive wur in i, vee constatly pur-
clasins handreds or t usanus or uollurs wort or pro-
uets in this country.
 produe ts, wiich incl ude
everyt. ing fror munit ono or w:r t oil u co tton.
are vi tall esse viul to t suva e conauet cr thit
894.24/541
war. In foet we lave o sup lyiny x with ap rox-
imately 4b or her imoorter r ou ats necessary to con-
ti le .i. .ti...
r treiaiout wi to
ve  und in ulpin u resive tion triumph.
ovr  peetrie
wore
wieh irlioFriwt
ste ned i theit i the we o muniti ons
w ar woaer vpete sue isltive
eser
ati ns wit 
t
iwowe
t.1i:
e
7e
wtr
e
G
embargoed
Endorsed by Ohio Valley Trade and Labor Assembly

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.96)
Manager
SSOHOVALLEY
njus
gignt
W. VA
Deo. 6, 1938.
Hon. Franklin D. Roosevelt
Davision of
12/16
White House,
FAR EASTEAN AFFAIRS
14t.ManD
Washington, D.C.
DEC171938
mecember 19
My Dear Mr. President:
pe
1938.
We wish to raise our voioe along with the many
thousands who have also written to you, in regard to
a matter whioh is of great significance to the future
of Demooratic prinoiples in the world.
The Japanese Government has, sinoe the outbreak
of her aggressive war in China, been constantly pur-
894.24-
chasing hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of pro-
duots in this country. These products, whioh inolude
everything from munitions of war to oil and cotton,
are vitally essential to the savage conduct of that
894.24/541
war. In fact we have been supplying Japan with approx-
imately 48% of her imported products necessary to con-
tinue fighting.
Mr. President, American Labor does not wish to
have a hand in helping an aggressive nation triumph
over a peaceful country such as China.
There is a
law on our statute books, namely the Neutrality Law,
which if apnlied, could prevent Japan from buying what
she needs in the United States in the way of munitions
and arms. We would further advocate such legislative
measures as would cut off finanoial and commercial rel-
ations with Japan.
We have to admit the fact, shameful as it is, that
as things stand now we are doing all in our power to
help defeat Demooratic China.We, as Amerioan work-
ing men, do not want prosperity that must be bought at
the prioe of millions of Chinese lives. We prefer re-
lief if that is the only alternative.
We urge you to do all in your power to help stop
this awful war, by placing an embargo on all war mater-
ials that go to Japan, and by immediately invoking the
Neutrality Act.
It is one thing to speak about Demooracy, and it is
F/FG
quite another to act in a Demooratic way. At the present
time there are two Democracies with their backs against
the wall, yet in both instances we have done all that we
could to insure their defeat at the hands of their Fas-
cist adversaries. In the case of Spain we have embargoed
Endorsed by Ohio Valloy Trade and Labor Assembly

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.91)
, Advertising Manager
SYOHOVALLEYI
Nus
LABOR TEMPLE
WHEELING. W. VA
all merohandise to the legitimate government, and in the
case of China we are arming her enemy.
very respeotfully yours
Lomis Pollvct
Louis Pollook,
Editor and Publisher
Endoraed by Ohio Valley Trade and Labor Assembly

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.97)
December 19 1958.
My dear Mr. Polloek:
By reference from the white Nouse I acknowledge
the reeelpt of your letter of December 6, l938 1n regard
to the export of war and other materials to Japan.
Your attention 1s invited to Seotion 1 (a) of the
894.24/541
Joint Resolution of May 1, 1937, commonly referred to
as the Neutrality Aot, a copy of which is enclosed, whach
provides that whenever the President shall find that
there exists a state of war between or among two or more
foreign states he shall proolaim such fact. Should the
President issue a proclamation finding that a state of
war exists between Chi na aad Japan, the export from this
country of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to
both Chine and Japan would be immediately prohibited.
In the absence of such a proelamation, there is no
statutory authority for preventing sueh exports.
I
Mr. Lowis Polloek,
Editor and Publisher,
Ohio Valley Labor Nows,
Laber Temple
Wheelimg, West Virginia.
F/FG

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
In determining not to issue a preelamation, the
President has exereised the disoretion vested in him by
the statute. He could not fail to recogaise that the
primary purpose of this statute is to keep this country
out of war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take into
account all the pertinent conditions and ciroumstances.
Incidentally, I may stress the fact, in view of what is
above stated, that a proolamation would have placed an
embargo on the shipment of the material mentioned not
only to Japan but to China.
The Meutrality Act, moreover, does not authorize
the President or the Secretary of State under any eir-
oumstamces to prohibit the export of commodities other
than arms, ammunition, and implemente of war. The
artieles and materials which are considered to be arme,
ammunition, and implements of war are enumerated in the
President's Proolamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set
forth under Part II of the enclosed copy of the pamphlet
Internationnl Traffto 1n Arme.
You may be interested to know that since July 1,
1937, the Department of State has issued lioenses for
the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war
to China 1n the value of $14,367,902.30 and to Japan in
the

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.91)
-8
the value ef $10,793,865.38.
Simeerely yours,
For the Aeting Beeretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosures:
1. Copy of Neutrality Aot.
2. Pamphlet - International
Traffio in Arme.
the
copy of
り
ant
CA:RVH:MacD:SS
12/16
FE
yow
ORK
EC 17 1958.
D19 1938

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.92)
REV. CHARLES K. IMBRIE, D. D.
FIROT PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
NEWBURGH. N. Y.
Docember 2b 1930.
IAR LASTENN AT
2.4
Depsrtme:December 7, 1938
(A)
Franklin D. Roosevelt, Fresident,
Executive Mansion,
Washington, D.C.,
(a cl2d1
944.24
My dear Mr. i resident:
I thourht I would go to
hendcuarters to find out if the state-
ments in the enclosed cireular, hich
is certainly eniorseu by responsible
citizens, pre true.
So many staterents  re mude
hich upon anulysis are in Fact merely
8
political proporanda that one is confused.
6
But here is something, if true, surely
4.24/542
can by remedied.
I was born in Japan  nd lived
there over twelve years nd love the
country and have hid many a "tilt" with
your aunt, irs Iora Delano Forbes, over
the respective virtues of Chine und Jul an,
but it does seem obvious that any such
policy as outlined in the circulur,  kes
us litt le better than hypocrites.
Cun you rive uny encouragement
as to the possible termination of any such
relationship hich we :s a country bear
towards the sluughter in the Fur East?
Very respectfully,
CK Jmbue
Encl. 1
F

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.97)
"The Chinese could save their country and
their freodom if only against Japan, but it is
vory doubtful if they can against Japen and
Amorico."
"On the night the Japanese occupied the
city where I lived. I was more ashamed of my
country then over before in my life During
the noxt fow days I romoved a sugar sack full
of American scrap irom and shell fregments
from the flesh of the Chinese wounded.
The Jepanese were using 4,000 to 5,000
Amorican motor trucks in Shansi province. en.
abling them to outmaneuver the Chinese troops
ontiroly."
-An American docter recently
returned from Chine
A Rod Cross physician made some comment
to the Chinese who was helping him unpack
modical supolies. The Chinose turned to him
and said "Woll. after all. your country supplies
the Japanese with the airplanes. the aviation
gasoline. the lubricating oils. the bombs — why
shouldn't you also provide the modical supplies
for the victims of the bombings?"

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
A
MERICAN men and women who knew
2. To facilitate this informative campaign
the extent of our aid to Japan and
we have published an 80-page booklet
"America's Share in Japan's War Guilt".
were appalled at the injuries being inflicted
You can help by reading it and by dis-
on the Chinese formed the American Com-
tributing copies of it and of this leaflet to
mittee for Non-Participation in Japanese
Aggression.
friends, urging them to express themselves to
They realized that if the facts were
our national executives and representatives.
given wide publicity and our American
3. Spread the facts by word of mouth —
sense of fair play aroused, citizens would
to individuals, to public gatherings. Letters
make demands on our National Govern-
to newspapers would help.
ment that could not be ignored.
4. Form a local committee in your city for
You can help to do this and to do it
Non-Participation in Japanese Aggression.
quickly for the sake of unnumbered po-
It will have full autonomy with all the assist-
tential sufferers.
ance of the national office.
The program is simple:
5. If you can contribute money or raise
1. To place correct information before the
money for the Committee it will be applied
public so that it may be brought to the at-
conscientiousty to printing and circulating
tention of President Roosevelt, Secretary
additional information and educational
Hull, all your representatives in the Senate
publicity.
and Congress, that they may take legisla-
tive action. Won't you write them? Every
6. Send for "America's Share in Japan's
expression of opinion counts. A suggested
War Guilt", single copies, 15 cents: 8
Resolution will be sent on request.
copies $1; 50 copies $5; 100 copies $8.
ORDER AND DISTRIBUTE WIDELY COPIES OF THIS LEAFLET - S1.0O PER HUNDRED

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
AMERICAN COMMITTEE
SPONSORS
Henry A. Atkinson
Helen Keller
Wallace W. Atwood
Rockwell Kent
Albert W. Beaven
Wm. H. Kilpatrick
W. Russell Bowie
Arther Lee Kinsolving
Van Wyck Breoks
Bruno Lasker
Mrs. E. C. Carter
Robert D. Leigh
Mrs. S. M. Cavert
Henry Smith Leiper
Evans Clark
Eduard C. Lindeman
Samuel Cochran
A. Lawrence Lowell
Donald J. Cowling
Mildred H. McAfee
Mrs. W. Murray Crame
George W. Marston
Carl Crow
William P. Merrill
William E. Dodd
R. A. Millikan
Paul H. Douglas
A. J. Moore
Brewer Eddy
Lewis Mumford
Clark M. Eichelberger
G. Ashton Oldham
H. C. Engelbrecht
Mrs. Edgerton Parsons
Charles G. Fenwick
Henry K. Sherill
Frank E. Gannett
Mrs. F. Louis Slade
L. C. Goodrich
Robert E. Speer
Edwin F. Hahn
Mrs. Lincoin Steffens
Helen Hall
Rabbi Jacob Weinstein
Frederick B. Harris
Herbert Welch
L. Newton Hayes
Stephen S. Wise
Arthur N. Holcombe
Mary E. Woolley
E. Stanley Jones
James M. Yard
Mrs. Sidney D. Gamble, Treasurer
NATIONAL BOARD
E. Ellen Auchinclos
Orrin G. Judd
T. A. Bisson
Chase Kimball
George Fitch
Emory W. Luccock
Margaret Forsyth
Reinhold Niebuhr
Louis D. Froelick
Frank W. Price
B. A. Garside
Edgar H. Rue
Roger S. Greene
E. Šnell Hall
Josephine Schain
Edward H. Hume
Chester A. Smith
Philip J. Jaffe
Marwell Stewart
Eliot Janeway
Olin D. Wannamaker
Harry B. Price, Secretary
8 WEST 40th STREET, NEW YORK, N. Y.

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.96)
N'S
NER
JAP
PAR
THE
s
THIS MY
GOOD
NEIGHBOR
POLICY?"

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
by Americans are killing untold numbers of
of America and thousands of dollars
mothers and children daily. Flames and
have been contributed for food, medicine
poison gas, made from American chemi-
and relief work. However, our position in
cals, snuff out the lives of many. We
the confict between China and Japan is no
supply Japan with the motor equipment
compliment to either our humanity or our
that helps her out-maneuver the Chinese.
intelligence. Our pittances for relief cannot
These are admitted facts, taken from
atone for our financial and economic sup-
the records in Tokyo and Washington, and
port of the Japanese armed forces that are
from eye-witness statements of unbiased
daily causing further toll of death.
American correspondents, missionaries and
We are doing too much to cause the
business men in China.
injuries we aim to relieve. For we are
Is it wise to aid Japan to build an em-
now selling Japan more than fifty-four per
pire with almost unlimited man power and
cent of the military supplies and munitions
industrial resources and a clear ambition to
that enable her to carry on. Without our
control the Pacific? Washington is spend-
help Japan could not continue.
ing billions to build up our armament to
Japanese shrapnel, hurtling through the
protect ourselves against the potential en-
air to kill or maim, is made from scrap
emy we are now strengthening.
iron gathered and shipped by American
The remedy is obvious.
junk dealers. Japanese airplanes, manufac-
tured in America, are fuelled with gasoline
Stop this traffic in death, from which
nearly all of which is purchased in this
a handful are making a profit, in order
country. High explosives, made and shipped
that your bandages may not be needed.

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.93)
NER
UTION
S RUIN
aooao0o
THIS MY
GOOD
NEIGHBOR
POLICY?

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
by Americans are killing untold numbers of
mothers and children daily. Hlames and
have been contributed for food, medicine
poison gas, made from American chemi-
and relief work. However, our position in
cals, snuff out the lives of many. We
the conflict between China and Japan is no
supply Japan with the motor equipment
compliment to either our humanity or our
that helps her out-maneuver the Chinese.
intelligence. Our pittances for relief cannot
These are admitted facts, taken from
atone for our financial and economic sup-
the records in Tokyo and Washington, and
port of the Japanese armed forces that are
from eye-witness statements of unbiased
daily causing further toll of death.
American correspondents, missionaries and
We are doing too much to cause the
business men in China.
injuries we aim to relieve. For we are
Is it wise to aid Japan to build an em-
now selling Japan more than fifty-four per
pire with almost unlimited man power and
cent of the military supplies and munitions
industrial resources and a clear ambition to
that enable her to carry on. Without our
control the Pacific? Washington is spend-
help Japan could not continue.
ing billions to build up our armament to
Japanese shrapnel, hurtling through the
protect ourselves against the potential en-
air to kill or maim, is made from scrap
emy we are now strengthening.
iron gathered and shipped by American
The remedy is obvious.
junk dealers. Japanese airplanes, manufac-
tured in America, are fuelled with gasoline
Stop this traffic in death, from which
nearly all of which is purchased in this
a handful are making a profit, in order
country. High explosives, made and shipped
that your bandages may not be needed.

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.95)
December 25 1958.
In reply refer to
0.
My dear Dr. Imbrie:
By referenee from the white Nouse I acknewledge
the receipt of your letter of December 7, l938 in regard
to the situation now obtaining in the Far East.
Your attention 1s invited to Seotion 1 (a) of the
Joint Resolution of May 1, 1937, commonly referred to as
894.24/542
the Noutrality Aot, a copy of which 1s enolosed, which
prevides that whenever the President shall find that
there exists a state of war between or among two or more
foreign states he shall proelaim such fact. should the
President isswe a proolamation finding that a state of
war exists between China and Japan, the export Srom this
country of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to
both China and Japan would be immediately prohibited.
The Reverend
Charles K. Imbrie, D.D.,
Firet Presbyterian Chureh,
Newburgh, New Yerk.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.96)
In the absence ef such a preelamation, there is ne
statutery autherity for preventing such exports.
In determining not to issue a proelamatien, the
President has exereised the diseretien vested in him by
the statute. He could mot fail to reeegnise that the .
primary purpese of this statute is to keep this eountry
out of war, and he, of oourse, folt obliged to take late
account all the pertinent conditions and eireumstanees.
Incidentally, I may stress the faet, in view of what 1s
abeve stated, that a proolamation would have placed an
embarge on the shipment of the material mentioned not
emly to Japan but to China.
The Noutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize
the President or the seeretary of state under any eireum-
stamees to prohibit the export of commodities other tham
arms, ammunition, and implements of war. The artieles
and materials mhich are considered to be arms, ammumi-
tiom, and implements of war are emumerated in the Presi-
deat's Preelamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth
under Part II of the enolosed copy of the pemphlet
Latermatienal Traffie in Aran. It will be noted that
serap irom, oil, and similar prodmets are not included in
sueh enumeratiem. There is no statute now in existenee
whieh would authorise the President or the seeretary of
state

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
state to prehibit the expert of cerap iren, oll, er
similar preduets to Japan or to any ether foreigm coum-
ory.
You may be Laterested to kmew that sinee July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued lieemees for
the expert of arms, ammunitien, and implements of war
to China in the value of $14, 367,902.30 and to Japan 1n
the value ef $10,895,865.38.
I may add, with reference to the bembing of civilian
pepulatione and the probable danger to Amerieans and
Ameriean interests abroad, that the Seoretary of state
has stated publioly on repeated occaslons that this
Gevermment condemms the bombing of civilian populations
er its material eneouragement. The Government's condemma-
tiom of this praetiee has been expressed direetly to all
mammfacturers and exporters in this country of airplanes
and aeronautical equipment.
sincerely yours,
For the Acting Searetary of State:
QR√somm
DEC 21 1938.
DEC 23 1938.PM
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arme and Mumitions Contrel
1. Copy ef Joint Meselution,
May 1, 1937.
5
Traffie in Aras.
C
pnt
FE

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.93)
L
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
WELLEBLEY COLLEGE
OFPARTUFN
WELLESLEY MASSACHUSETTS
1958 DEC S PM 1 52
Docember 7, 1938
RH 
JI: N OF
secember 20 1938.
Washington, D. C.
My dear Kr. Hull:
I understand that American raw materials are
being used to manufacture weapons of var in: Janan, tiat
American planes are being used to carry bombs from America
for the destruction of Chirese civilian populat:ons, that
shells from Anerica are loading Japanese guns, and t at
894i2v
America is supplying to Japan huge quantities of scrap iron
Division of
oil, trucks, and other materials used in the furtherance of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
the war, over and alove the amount of our rormal trade of
DEC19 1938
recent yers.
894.24/543
Depertment of State
I therefore wi h to join ir the respectful
petition that the President of the United States and
Congress, ir accordance with the principle of the Good
Neighbor and ir the interests of the people of the  ited
States, China, and Japan, ta'e every prrcticoble means,
direct or indircct, to brin: to an end a traffic from our
country which is compelling us to be a partner in the
destruction of the Chinese people.
Sincerely yours,
naied ill
1uRe
Mildred H. McAfee
Q

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.93)
December 20 1938.
 doar Dr. eafee:
I aekmowledge the reseipt of your letter of Desey
ber 7, l93s 1n whieh you protest against the export 66
Japan of war and other mmterials.
Your courtesy in traaemitting your views concerning
894.24/543
this matter is greatly appreciated. The Departmemt is
always gratified to receive from thoughtful and well-
imfereed sitisems expressions of opinion on mtters re-
lating to foreign affairs and to give due weight to thess
opizions in conjumotiom with all the other factors in-
volved in the fermmlatiem of our foreige poliey.
with a view to moquainting you with the present pesi-
tion of this Govermmeat in regard to the Far Eastern
situation, I desire to invite your attentiom to Section 1-
of the Joint Resolutiom of Gongress appreved May 1, l98?,
Mildred E. Afee, LL.D.,
Presidemt, Wellesley Cellege,
Wellesley, Massaehusetts.
F7F
G

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.96)
which provides that whemever the President shall find that
there exists a state of war betweem or among twe er mere
foreige states he shall proeleis sush feet. sheuld the
President issue a proolammtion finding that a state ef
war exists between China and Japas, the export frem this
comtry of arms, ammmitions, and implements of war to
both Chiza and Japan would be immediately prohibited. In
the absemee of sush a proolamatiom, there is no statutory
authority for preventing suoh exports.
In determining not to issue a proolamation, the
President has exercised the diseretion vested in him by
the statute, He sould mot fail to recogmize that the
primary purpose of this statute is to keep this comtry
out of war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take into
ascount all the pertinent conditioms and ciroumstamees.
Inoidentally, I may stress the fact, in view of whet is
above stated, that a preclamation would have placed m
embargo om the shipmemt of the material memtioned not
only to Japan but to Chine.
The Weutrality Aet, moreover, does mot authorise the
President or the Seeretary of state umder any siroumstamees
to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms,
amemitien, and implements of war. The artieles and
materials

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.91)
and implemsmts of war are emumerated in the President's
Preelamtiem of May 1, 1937, whieh 1s set ferth mder
Part II of the emelesed cepy of the pasphlet atarmatismal
Iaffia ln Ame.
Yeu mmy be interested to kmow that sinee July 1,
1937, the Department of state has issued lieemses fer the
expert of arme, asmmition, md implememts of var to thime
in the valme of $14,367,902.30 and to Japam in the value
of $10,793,865.38.
I may add with reference to the bombing of eivilien
pepulatiems and the probable danger to Americams and
Amerieam izterests abread, that the Sesretary of state
has stated publiely om repeated occasions that this
Govermmemt condems the bombing of eivilian populatioms
er its mmterial ensouragement. The Government's com-
dematiem ef this practice has been expressed direstly
to all mamafacturere and exporters in this comtry of
sirplames and seromautieal equipment.
CR
Simeerely yours,
DEC 19 19509
For the Leting Sesretary of state:
B. WALTON MOORE
Gomseler.
Imelesures:
6
1. Jetmt Resolutiem.
mt
à. Pemphlet.
the
nal.
TA
cell
byni.sange

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.95)
BOARE
SSIONS
METIC
IST
PA
HURCH
NE
ORK, N.Y.
150 FIFT
38 DEC 9
December 7, 1938.
g
The Honorable Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
DEC171938
State Department
(1-121
Washington, D. C.
894.24
it
My dear Mr. Hull:-
We are enclosing herewith a copy of the
Resolution adopted by the Board of Foreign Missions at
1ts Annual Meeting in New York on November 15th.
894.24/544
The Secretaries of the Boa'd were requested
to send copies of this to the President of the nited
States and to the Secretary of State, at Washington.
we call your attention to the fact that the
Methodist Episcopal Church, under whose auspices the work
of the Boerd of Foreign Missions is conducted, has a member-
ship of more than four million in this country and is
represented by 55l missionaries in all perts of the world.
we are certein that the Resolution, as adopted, expresses
the judgment of practically the entire Church.
As Secretaries of this Board we desire
heartily to commend our Government for the steps already
taken on behalf of this suffering people and eernestly
hope that through your Department oontinued effort may be
made to bring relief to those in whose behalf this
Resolution was adopted.
Very sincenely yours,
Keoffendon
W. hw
Correeponding Secretaries
K
Enclosure
F/FG

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.96)
I, FRANCIS J. HeCOIN ELL, Presiaent UI the BOARD OF
FOREI  MISSIONS OF THE METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH, dO
hereby certify that at the annual meeting of the Bourd of
Manaers f the Board of Foreign Lissions of the Methouist
Episcopal Church, dul: callec ana dul hela on ovember 15,
1938, a quorum being present, the rollowing resolution was
unanimously aaoted:
"RESOLVED: That the metheus pursuee in China
during the past year, in unrestraineu looting,
indiscriminate bombing or military and civilians
alike, adced to the rape and eliberate slaugnter
that have accompunieu the cupture of some cities,
have shocked the moral sentimeits of mankind. With
full peccgnition of the nobie character and the
high Christian iueal: of  an, of th apanese eople,
we lament, with hearts which are sick with horror,
the excesses una outra es that have markea the
Japanese invasion of China. e are shamea by the
knowledge that a large proportion oi the exports
that assist in the prepuretion for war and war
materials used in this ruti.less attack upon a
neighborin people has been bought in this country,
und we urgently petition the Administration and
Congress to take what ver steps are necessary to
put an end to this cis aceful trafric. The interests
of commerce and finalce, altogether too influential
in determining government policies, must yiela to
the interests of humanity. The bloud of China cries
asainst us from the ground!"
IN VITNESS IEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and
1938.
Fra l
Pregident
Attest:
Hamy C. Spence
Hecording Seoretary

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.93)
Becember 20 1950.
Beard of Foreiga Miesions of the
Mothodist Episcepal Church,
150 Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York.
Attentiem: Mr. R. E. Diffendorfe and Mr. W. E. Shaw,
Corresponding Seeretaries
sirs:
894.24/544
The receipt is mekmowledged of your letter of
December 7, l93s emelosing a copy of a resolution in
regard to the Far Easterm situation which was adopted
umanimously at the ammual meeting on November 15, 19se
of the Board of Maaagers of the Board of Foroign Mis-
sione of the Methodist Episcopal Chureh. By reference
from the White House I also acknowledge the reseipt of
your letter of the same date emelosing a copy of the
same resolution.
I greatly appreclate your courtesy in transmitting
eeples of this reselution to the President and the
Seeretary of State. The Department is always gratified
to receive frem thoughtrul sourees expressiens of opinion
rele to fari faire nd to give due
F/FG
weighs to these epinsens in cenjunetien with all the
•tmer

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.96)
other facterm invelved in the formulation of our foreign
polsey.
with regard to the export of war and other materials
to Japan, I iavite your attention to Seetion 1 (a) of the
Jeint Reselution of May 1, 19s7, commonly referred to as
the Meutrality Aot, a copy of which is emolosed, which
prevides that whenever the President shall find that
there exists a state of war between or among two or more
foreign states he shall proolaim such faet. Should the
President iesue a proolamation finding that a state of
war exists between China and Japan, the export from this
country of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to
both China and Japan would be immediately prohibited.
In the absence of such a proclamation, there is no
statutory authority for preventing sueh exports.
In determimang not to issue a proelamatics, the
President has exercised the disoretion vested in him by
the statute. He oould not fail to recognize that the
primary purpose of this statute is to keep this country
out of mr, and he, of course, felt obliged to take into
account all the pertinent conditions and ciroumstances.
Incidentally, I may stress the fact, in view of what is
above stated, that a preclamation would have placed an
embarge on the shipment of the material mentiomed not
oay

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.96)
-8
only to Japan but to Cainm.
The Neutrality Act, moreover, does mot authorise
the President or the Becretary of state under any eir-
ewmstamees to prohibit the export of commodities other
than arms, ammunition, and implements of war. The
artioles and materials whioh are considered to be arme,
ammunition, and implements of mar are enumerated in the
President's Proclamation of May 1, 1937, wm oh 1s set
forth under Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet
Intornational Trafrio tn Arms.
You may be interested to know that sinoe July 1,
1937, the Department of State has issued l1oenses for
the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war
to China 1n the value of $14,367,902.30 and to Japan 1n
the value of $10,793,865.38.
I may add, with reference to the bombing of oivilian
populations and the probable danger to Americans and
American interests abroad, that the Secretary of State
has stated publioly on repeated occasions that this
Government condemns the bombing of oivilian populations
or its material encouragement. The Government's con-
demnation of this practice hae been expressed directly
to all manufaoturers and exporters in this country of
arplanes

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.92)
airplanes and aerenautieal equipeent.
simeerely yours,
For the Aoting Searetary of State:
WALTON MOORE
Counselor
Enclosures:
1. Copy of Neutrality Aot.
2. Pamphlet - International
Traffic in Arms.
us
som
DEC 19 1938
A true co of
the sign
uat.
CA:RVH:MaOD:SS
12/16
Teew

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.75)
Eugene City Club
Eugene, Gregon
RECEVED
December
Na Gode T
Wailnigion, d.C.
YAR EASTERN ALFAIMS
Womnis Aty Club ) Ersmm, Gagon,
beg yow to w  y our itinner
to al The sd n I r ia
08
394.24/5
min! to /aban.
A re I V v
 Tahans oan Wm ous is Jad.
Reapert ury,
Q
tres. 7.S. Joungs Mle tyont Epan
(over)

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.76)
Eugene Citg Club
Eugene, Oregon
2my Lutie 0. Heaver 138s velnd 2uyee o.
Jnrs Hugu Humpton 836 Liuln L 
Harriet thurper 1s42' haxch Eugine Ohe
duey . Notlon 2160 tur Et ugrne"
Mr.) Marie heteher Burlle Cont
Ms Olla Tombard 9test,Singfield, Ore.
Mr allan C sborne 1860 Ongy stEngine
mn panlf. Canthonn Ai Engene Use.
ma.e. Ruyuolde ,230 enrald, cngun,oneg.
Mrs D. T. Bayly 1223 Emerald, Eugene Are.
ms. 6.w shatui 465 East 11 th, Egene Oe.
Mrs. J.P Mannel, 174, E. 25th St, Engene, Oregon
Mrs. Suy d. Olaham. Route 1 Eigue, Oregan
Mrs. J. Hugh Pruett, 1832 Longiceus Ave.
mo. Stz. Buely
22535th
moEit
ties fus Kacfman. 1024 lest
Mankia 7. SSinchell 2r60 -Olire 81. Eugeuelbre
Mabet Croeve pnegfecd Ucege
Subuntleds ly:
(Mo P.C. Co) B Te 
Cly Cu, e , .

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.89)
oember 20 1258
eer Mre. Grovs
The reseipt is nekmovledged of a letter dsted
Desember 8, l9ss, eigned by you and other members of
the Wemem's City Glub of Sugene, Oregen, in regard to
the export of war and ether materinls to Jepan.
There is sransmitted herewith a eopy of the Joimt
894.24/545
Reselution ef Congress mppreved May 1, 1937, commenly
roferred to as the Moutrelity Aet. It will be observed
thas Seetion 1(a) of this Joint Resolution provides that
whemever the President shall find shat there exists a
state ef war betveen er among twe or more foreimm states
he shall preelaim sueh feet. Should the Presinent 1esue
e preelamatien finding that a state of war exists between
Chine mnd Japem, the erpert from this coumtry of arme,
ammumition
Wre. Vore Tose Gree,
seso willmmeste ssreet,
Begene, Gregen.
F/FQ

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.91)
-2
amoumitlon, and implememts of war to both Chime and
Japan would be immedintely prohibited. In the abeenee
of smeh a proelamatlon, there 1e no statutory sutherity
for preventimr smeh experts.
In determining mot to lssue a proelamstlon, the
President has exereieed the slsoretion vested In hlm by
the statute. He onuld not fr1l to roooanize that the
primary perpove of this stetute ls to keep thie sountry
at of war, and he, of oourso, folt oblired to take inte
acount all the pert1nent oondit1o and n1 roumntanoes.
Incidentally, I may strese the feot, in view of what 1s
abeve stated, that - preolamation would have placed en
embarre on the shipment of the materlel menti-ned not
mly to Japan but to China.
The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does not authorize
the Preeident or the Beoretary or Stete under ay cir-
cumetanees to orohibit the export of commodities other
then erms, amoonition, end implements of var. The
artlolee and matert-le thich are constiered to be me.
ammunitten, end implements of wnr are entmerated in the
Preeident's Proolamation of May 1, 19z7, which 1s set
tmrth un ar Part II or the anolooed oooy or the pamphlet
Iaternetlenal Irasrle ln Aonn.
You may be interested to know thst sinoe July 1,
1637, the Department of Stete he- lsswed lloomses for
th

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.86)
-8
the export ef aree, mmemitlon, and implements of wer
to Chime 1n the vaime of 14, 387, 902.30 and to Japem 1n
the vlun  ,95,.38.
Sineerely youre,
For the Aeting Seeretary of states
"herle. Yost, elstntof
'rrice o' Arms mma Munitionn Contrel
Knelosuree:
1. Joint rnolution.
?.mphlet.
CR
DRC 2 1938.
0
CAIRVHIMHPI8S
FL
NEW
12/20

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.93)
SH
First Congregational Church
I. Mashington Avenue aud Jourth Street
Lorain, Whio
.HERBERT F. LOOMIS.
Mininter
1938 DEC C M 3 50
December 3, 1938
IV F
OMMUNNS
AND HOUrDS
ecember 19 1930.
The tate epartment
Washington, . C.
onorable irs:
I have b en aisturhe by t I have
894.24-
seen i: licating the lare art the niteu tates
has been la: ing in furniuin military supolies
and munitions to Junan, for er ruthless warfare
in China. Hhat folly to  llow ourselvas to become
partner in thie laughter, and then to fl the
894.24/546
necessity of reatly incre sin our militar stren th
in or:er to be able to  est, it nec sury, t
strengthenei aor ssor!
Isn't t.ere sor ti.in t i istration can uo to
put an enu to our cor tri uting to hina's ruin by
furnishin- Janen war matrils?
Your eln to t: i. en: ill be vre tl: anoreciate i
by  lar e nurber o: American citiz-ns, I a sure.
Respe tfully yours,
Itrbat F.dovis
inister
HL:JH
Diviaion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIKS
DEC171938
Department of State
F/FG

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.92)
ecember 19 1938.
.Leem:
The reseipt is aoknowledged of your letter of Desem-
ber 8, 19ss in regard to the export of war mteriale to
Japem.
There is tranemitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Reselutiom of Comgress approved Way 1, 1937, comsomly
894.24/546
referred to an the Woutrality Aot. It will be observed
that Sestion 1(a) of this Joint Resolutim provides that
whembver the Presidemt shall find that there ezists a
stase of war betweem or among two or more fereign states
he sh&ll proolaim sush fact. should the Presidemt issue
a preelammtion finding that a state of war exists beteeem
China and Japam, the expert from this coumtry of arms,
ammmitioms, and implements of war to both Ohina and
Japem
The Reverend
Rerbert P. Leemis,
First Gengregational Church,
F7
Washingtes Aremue and Fourth Street.
FG
Lorain, Chio.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.93)
of oush a preslamtion, there is ne statutery astherity
for prevemting sueh exports.
In determining met to issse a preelammation, the
President has ezereised the diseretiem vested in him by
the statute. He could mot fail te recegaise that the
primary purpose of this statute is to keep this country
out of war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take into
accoumt all the pertinemt conditions and ciroumstances.
Incidentally, I my stress the faot, in view of what is
abeve stated, that a proclamtion would have placed an
embargo om the shipment of the material mentiomed not
oaly to Japan but to Chima.
The Meutrality Aot, moreover, does mot authorise
the President or the Secretary of State under any cir-
sumstamees to prohibit the export of commodities other
tham arms, anmmition, and iaplements of war. The ar-
tieles and mterials which are considered to be arms,
ammemitiom, and implements of war are emumerated in the
Presidemt's Preclamtion of May 1, 1937, whieh is set
forth mder Part II of the emelosed copy of the pamphlet
Intermatiemal Iraffia ia Arme.
You mmy be iaterested to kmow that sinee July 1,
1937, the Bepartment of state has 1ssued l1eemsee for
ao

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.89)
the espert of arms, ammmitien, and implemsnts of war to
Chine in the valme of $14,367,902.30 and te Japem in the
valme of $10,793,865.38.
sineerely yours,
For the Leting Sesretery of state:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief,
Offiee of Arms and Mumitions Gomtrol.
melesures:
1. Joimt Resolution.
2. Pamphlet.
OR
DAC 17 19388
try gopy of
the sikpod origt-
DEC 19 1938.
Arnt
CA:RVH:K:SS
FE
u
18/16/38

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.92)
METHODIST
EPISCOPAL
TABERNACLE
PROVIDENCE
RHODEISLAND
1938
RrHiMHP
L.TheronFrenoh
a1k/2/21
Minister
mper 29195
 eoember eth, 1938
CTRED
FOR UUNDLUNRATION
Mst M Dutyne
244.24
IAM LAS
President Frenklin !. Roosevelt
oor ry to President
Washington D. C.
Deprtmen!  sate
my dear Mr. President,
At a recent meeting of te uarterly Conferenoe
of our Churoh it was unenimously voted that the minister convey tc you
their urgent reguest thet you take whntever steps it. is within your
power to take toward curtailing the shiprent of urms ani war making
material 'c Jepen.
894.24/547
e reelize tret t e prosent law restriots what
oen be done by the Chief Executive. ut we ask that all that you can
do you will do. in this regard cispite whatever pressure mry be exerted
upon you by those unscrupulous groups vho nold their  rsonal profit
above the welfare of a sister nation. .e are eshamed that our nation
has, up to the present, mnde it possible for the Japanese to invade
China by furnishing more then helf the mnterial necessary, and sinoerely
hope that you will co all within your power to stop t is raffio.
very sincerely yours,
alwn
L THERON FRENCH
952 PA AUN. R1.
F/FG

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.93)
Decemvor 23 1958.
y Gear Kr. Freneh:
By referemee frem the White Neuse, I eeknewledge
the reeelpt of yeur letter of December 8, l9se, 1n
whieh you state that at a resent meeting of the
quarterly eonferenee of she Methedist Eplseopal
Tabermaele, it was veted umanimously to request the
894.24/547
President to take appropriate metion with a view to
prohibiting the expert of war materials to Japem.
Your courteey in inferming she President of the
viewe of your ehureh in regard to this matter is
greatly appresiated.
There 1s sransmitted herewith a cepy of the Jeint
Reselutien of Cengress appreved May 1, 1937, eommemly
referred te as the Neutrality Aet. It will be ebeerved
that
The Reverend
L. Theren Frenek,
052 Park Avemme,
Aubure, mhese Ioland.
F/FG

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
that Seetion 1(a) of this Joint Resolution providee that
whenever the Preeldemt ahall find that there existe a
st te of war between or mmong two or more foreim
states he shall proelaim such fect. Should the Presidemt
1smue a proelemati'n finding that a state of war exlats
between Chine and Japan, the export from this country
of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to both
Chima and Jmpan would be 1mmedintely prohibited. In the
abeenoe of suoh e proclamation, there 1s no statutory
su hority for preventing such exports.
In determining not to 1saue a proolamation, the
President has exeroised the disoretion vested in him by
the stetute. Ho could not fall to reoognlze that the
primary purpose or this statute le to keep this country
out or war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take into
account all the pertinent oondit1 ne and ciroumetances.
Inoldentally, I may stres: the fact, in vier of whet 1s
above at ted, thet a proolamatlion would huve placed an
ombargo on the shipment of the materinl mentioned not
only to Japan but to China.
The Noutrelity Aot, moreover, Coer not authorle
the roeident or the Seoretary of St te under any oir-
oumstanoe to prohibit the export or commonitles other
than arms, aunitlon, sn? implemente of war. The
artiolen and mnterials atioh are considered to be arms,
ammun1tiom

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.91)
-3
ammunitiom, and implememte of war are emumerated im the
Presidemt'e Proelemation of May 1, 1937, which 1e set
forth wnder Part II of the emelosed oony of the pamphlet
Laternatlenal Iraffle in Ana.
You may be interested to know that sinoe July 1,
1937, the Department of Stste has lsswed l1oemees for
the export of arms, ammumition, and implements of war
to Ch1ne 1n the value of 314, 367,902.30 and to Japam
In the velne of 1n. ees. ss .
sinoerely yours,
For the Aoting Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assletant Chief
Orrioe of Arme and Mun1t1ons Control
Enolosures!
1. Joint nesolution.
2. Pamphlet.
CR
DF
8
CA:RVH:MHP:S8
FE
12/21

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.94)
ADJUTANT
COMMANDER
HARRY S. ETHELL
PERRY
H.F D. NO. I. KELBO
PHONE. KI 391O-J.1
x1 118
GEORGE P. MILLAR CAMP NO. 31
secomber 28 1938.
luited Spanish ar Veteraus
KELSO, WASHINGTON
December 8th., 1938.
Hon. Franklin D. Roosevelt,
 vision of
1958
Washington, D. C.
achks 12-20.38
0E6 20 1938
RVH/mIsP
Dear Mr. President;-
Denadgent of Stare
At the last regular meeting of George P. Millar Camp
#31, the following esolution was adopted:-
" RESCLUTION:
Re: Scrap Iron to Japan:
HE IT RESOLVED:
894.24/548
Americe, -Championing the cause for
Humanity, and recognizing the suffering of women and
children in the present China-Japanese conflict,- AiD
desirous of preserving strict neutrality,- George P.
Millar Camp #31, Depart ent of Washington and Alaska,
United Spanish War Veterans, Petition the American Gov-
ernment to STOP ALL SHIPIENTS CF SCnAP I..ON, or OTHER
War Materials, from the United States to Jaran.
( ined):- Lloyd Colburn,
Committee
Chairman.
***
Lawrence Perry,
#103% N. 3rd. Street,
Commandey.
F/FG
Kelso, Washington.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.91)
secember 25 1958.
My Gear Mr. Perrg:
By referemee frem the Whise Neuse, I aeknevledge
the reeeipt of your lester of December 8, l9se, Ln
whieh you set forth the sext of a reselutien whish was
adepted by your Organisation in regard to the expert ef
894.24/548
serap 1rem and war materials to Jepan.
Your courteey in inferming she President of the
vieme ef your Organtsation in regard to this matter is
greatly appreeiated.
There is sranemitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Reselution of Cengress appreved May 1, 19s9, commomly
referred te as the Neutralisy Aet. It will be ebeerved
thet Seesiom 1(a) of shie Jeint Reselutien prevides thes
whemever the Presidemt shall find shat there existe e
stase
Rr. Lawrenee Perrg.
F/FG
Kelse, Weshingten.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
state of war between or mong twe or more foreigm states
be shall preelaim sueh faet. Should the Presidemt issme
a proolamation finding that a state of war exiets betweem
Ohime and Japam, the export from this country of arms, 
munition, and implements of mar to both Chima and Japan
would be immediately prohibited. In the sbsence of suoh
e proclametion, there 1e no statutory suthority for pre-
ventine such exporte.
In doteroinin: not to lasue a proolava 1on, the
President has exereised the siscretion vesten in him by
the statute. Ho could not fail to reoognire that the
primary purposs of this statute ls to keep this country
out of war, and he, of course, felt obllged to take into
aocount all the pertinon? conditions and olroumetances.
Inoidentally, I may strese the fnot, In vlo of what ls
above stated, that - proolamation would have olmood an
mbargo on the shipment of the natoris? mentloned not
only to Jepan but to China.
The Noutrality Aot, moreover, does n't nuthorize
the President or the Seorotary of State unde: any cir-
oumstanoen to prohibit the export of commoditles other
than arms, ammunition, and 1mplements of war. The
artiolen and m tarlele  loh are onnsldored to be arme,
munition, and 1mplement of ar ere enumereten 1n the
Procidont's Proolamatlon of May 1, 1937, whloh 1n set
sorth

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.92)
-3
ferth under Part II of the emelesed sopy of the pemphlet
Iaternatlonal Irattle la Arne. It will be noted that
serap 1ron 1s not imoluded in emch emumeretion. There is
no statute nor in existemoe whloh would muthorize the
Preeident to prohibit the erport of sorap iron to Japan
or to any other foreign oountry.
You may be interested to know that sinoe July l,
1937, the Departmont of State has lasued licenses for
she export or arms, ammunition, ani impiemenis of war
to Chima 1m the value of $14, 367,9 2.30 and to Japan
1n the value of 910,995,865.38.
lncerely youre,
For the soting Beoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Orrice of Arns ana Munitione Control
Lnclosures:
1. Jolnt Aesolution.
?. Pemphlet.
Cue
0
CA:RVH:MHP:9S
FL
12/20

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.80)
Spika Tausar. Dee 15-1438
drnt
seeretary- of State - Contell Hull
2813
Wash. D. C
RYH:mNP
D S
Statie and riso as one intniiy intrestied in our
rehationsn, and responsibility to other Natione, I am
addressing you as this trime.
as our Seeretary of State, and our reprecemmie, you ar
morking most edrsleslty to preserve Peace and good wil
and refoice in your every effort along this kine.
May we call attention to, and earnerlty protest agan
the part America is playing in the destruction  Chin
So long as gapan reeieuse some 5t % of her rar suppli
frSA.   N 
Nation to "Wlay oul of War"
We Know ar ha not en oinay telat ay the
Japan is Chrina, tut even one i fully aware at a
Statt of war daix ixL. 2h hove a Neutrality Low. Coned
not aur President declare to our own nation viat a stats
been nd J, and ay and En
our Neutrality Low?
Dear m beerelany. We are not staying out of this nar. Amenea
handa are drippning red with the alood of helploss and degemsele
Chnese Grillave. We urge, and ey that you use your ufluancd
and all the power at your Ammiand t make. ist ingosible for thoed
accumabate dallass  Coutine t send supplies to Japan. Ne
duply fel that the record of Ameriea s part mi such sare shale me
a moah mgloarona record as it shale. be untten. fod gudger al
aions-ani not decaed. Re.s..B. Bayle. 91 C

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.87)
seccmber 25 1950.
y deer Mre. Begle:
The reeeips is acknewledged of your letter of
December 12, 193s, in regard to the situatien mew eb-
Saiming is She Far East.
There Is tramsmitted berewith e eepy ef the Jeint
894.24/549
Reselution ef Gongress appreved May 1, 19s9, eommenly
referred se as the Houtrality Aet. It will be ebeerved
that Seetiem 1(a) ef this Jeint Resolution provides
that whenever the Presidemt shall find that there exists
a stste of war betweem or ameng twe or more fereigm etates
he shall preelaim such faet. shonld the Presidemt lesme
a preelamation finding that a state ef war exists betweem
Chime and Jepem, the expert frem this coumtry of erms,
amrenitien, and implemunts ef war to beth Chima mnd Japam
would be immediately prehibised. In the absenee of euch a
preclmmation
s. . B. e,
F/FG
s24 Glag sereet,
Sopese, Kansee.

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.91)
-2
preelamatiem, there 1s no statutery mutherity fer pre-
ventinr sueh experts.
In determining met to lesue a proelamation, the
Presldent has exereleed the diseretion vested im him by
the statute. Ne could not rail to recogmise that the
primary purpose of thie stetute 1s to keep this country
ut of war, and be, of couree, falt oblired to take lnto
account all the pertinent conditions and oirewmstances.
Imvidontaliy, i may atrese the feot, in view of whet 1s
above stated, that a proolamation wouln have pleeed an
owbarro on the shipment of the materinl mentioned not
only to Japam but to Chins.
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, noer not authorire the
President or the Seoretery of strte wmde any alrouwetanees
to prohibit the export of commolitles other than arms, am-
wunitlon, end implements or war. The articles and
materlele which are considered to be arme, ammunitiom,
end implemente of wnr are enumerated in the I'resldent's
Proclmmat1on of Mey 1, 1937, whioh 1n aet forth wmner
Part II of the enclosed copy of the panphlet Intermatlonal
Iratcle in Aoma.
You may be 1nterosted to know that sinoe July 1, 1937,
the I oper tment of stcte has lesued lloenses for the export
of ares, ammumition, and 1mplemente of wn, to China 1n
the value or 14, 367, 902.30 nnd t0 Japan 1n the value of
91.895,865.38.
1

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.90)
-3
I may add, with referemee t the bombing ef eivilimm
populations and the probable danger to Aserieans and
Ameriean interests abread, that the Sesretary of State
has stated publiely on repeated oecasions that this
Govermment condemme the bombing of civilian populations
or ile material enoouragement. The Govermment's con-
dommatlon of this prnotioe han been expressed dirretly to
all manufaoturere and exportere in this country of air
planes and aeronautioel equipment.
Sineerely youre,
For the Aoting Seoretary or State:
Charlen W. Yost, As-lntant Chief
Orfioe of Arme and Munitions Control
Enclosure-:
1. Joint Resolution.
2. Pemphlet.
CR
4
38
D
231
CA: AVH:MHP: 3S
FR
12/20

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
December 29, 1938
PAA - Dr. Hornbeck:
For preparation of a reply.
1938
of
IAR EASTERN AFFAINS
11
M
U SW:IJ

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.96)
Akron Ministerial Assaciation
STAT
1939
achid
MR. WELLES
LAR LASTEAN IFAIRS
The Honorable SumnerWelles,
8301938
Washington,D.C.
UEPARI MENT OF SIAIE
Departot State
My Dear Mr. Welles:
The Akron,Ohio,Winisterial Association wishes to express
its deep concern over the present Far Eastern situation and
America's relationship to it. We believe that the highest
894.24/
moral forces of the United States demand that some adequate
and forceful expression be made against Japan's agpression
and ruthless militaristic campaign in China.
e declare our Christian synpathy witn the Chinese people
in their terrible experiences of suffering and loss, and we
give expression to our conviction that the woral and spiritual
5
ideals of the world are definitely oprosed to Japan's breach
of the Kellog-Briand reace Pact and her appropriation of Chinese
0
territory.
As regards America's sale of munitions and of materials thut
are,or may be,used for war purposes, we voice our regret that the
recently enacted Neutrality Act is inapplicable in any way that
would commend itself to our people as wise and fair.In our opinion
this Act should be so amended as to permit the fresident of the
United States, with the approval of the Congress to designate the
894.24
aggressor nation in any conilict of military forces,and thus
permit the diplomatic and economic roer of America to he used
in opposition to such aggression;or,that the Act should be amendd
in some other way s) as to make it effective as a means of regist
tering America's opnosition to imperialistic conquest and to the!
tragic injustice and destruction that arise from such situations
as now obtain in China and in Spain.
Very truly yours.
Secretary Akron inisterial Association
W
B

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.90)
81989
January
éeer Mr. Sayder:
Your letter of December 8f infermins me of the
wish ef the Akren, Ohie, Ministerial Asscciatien
te express iss deep eemeern ever the present Far
Eastern situatien and this ceuntry's relasien te
894.24/550
that situation is before me.
The interest of the Akron Ministerial Assooiation
and the eeurtesy ef the Asscciation in inferming us
of its views are appreciated. We welccme expressions
of epinien and ef ccnvietiem, I wish to assure you
that this Gevernment is giving intensive consideratien
to the preblems of whieh your Association speaks and
that we are doing cur utmost towerd appropriately
serving the interests of the people of the United States
and ef humanity in the conduetins ef this country's
fereigm relations.
Sineerely yours,
F/WB
Sumner Welles
JAN
Aeting Seeretary
A true copy of
the slened arigi-
The Reverend
Goerge P. Sapder,
Seeretasy, Akren Ministerial Assesiatien.
Aln, Qhie.
immN.
FE

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.94)
ND
MUN
Congress of the Hnited Statgan 6
CA
RECEIVED
1939
ARTMENT OF STATE
Pouse of Representatibes
Washington, D. C.
1959 JAN 4 AM 9 19
ye1959
DIVISION CF
COMMUNIC/TIONS
January
AND FCORDS
December 30, 1938
bre
894.20
DVISER
IAR EASTERN AFFAINS
Honorable Cordell Hull
DEPARTMENT OF SIAIL
-1939
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Department or St
894.24/551
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Enclosed please find letter just received from Mr. George P. Snyder,
Secretary, Akron Ministerial Associ&tion of Akron, Ohio.
Before replying to this, I would like to have your views upon this
letter and upon the suggestion that the writer makes, that the Members
of the Association feel the Neutrality Act should be amended so as to
permit the President with the approvel of Congress to designate the
aggressor nation in any conflict of military forces and thus permit
the dipl matic and economic power to be used in opposition to such
eggression.
974
Very sincerely yours,
Ooww. Harter
Dow W. Harter, M. C.
1641 New House Office Building
Washington, D. C.
DWH:BA
F/W3
14
calles

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.95)
Janoary 6 1959
In reply refer to
PA/H 894.24/551
My dear Mr. Harter:
Your letter of Deeember 30 addressed to the
Seoretary of State, enolosing a copy of a letter
from Mr. George P. Snyder, Jeoretary, Akron
Ministerial Asmociation, of Akron, Ohio, and re-
894.2
questing the viows of the Seoretary upon Mr.
Snyder's lotter and the suggestions whioh it
oontains is before me.
4/
I have had from Mr. Snyder a letter 1dentioal
5
with the letter whioh you reoeived from him. For
your information, I enolose herewith a copy of the
aaknowledgment whioh I made.
With regard to the question or the Neutrality
Aot, it is my impression that the Congress
during the ourrent session will give careful con-
sideration
The Honorable
Dow n. Harter,
House of Representatives.
7
7

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.92)
sideration to the question of possible need for
amendments in the light of new developments in the
international situation since the existing legisla-
tion was enaoted and of many suggestions which have
been offered from various sources.
I return here enolosed Mr. Snyder's letter
under referenoe.
With best wishes of the Season, 1 am
Sincerely yours,
suanor wollo
Acting Seoretary
Enclosures:
From Mr. Snyder to Mr. Harter,
dated Decembor 27, 1938.
To Mr. Snyder, dated
January 3, 1939.
八
5
copant
PA/H: SKH: K
FE
nm/
1-4-391
Ame
deg
nal.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.94)
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
COMMITTEES:
OUSE Of REPrESENDaTSENT UTATHAPPROPRIATIONS
ACOEIV
D. LANE POWERS
WASHINGTON, D. C.
4TH DIST. NEW JeRSEn
1939 JAN 11 AM 9 35
EXPENDITURES IN THE
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
LEON RAEBLY
SECRETARY
January 10, 1939
JIVISION OF
COMMUNIGATIONS
AND RLCORDS
D
MUN
January 15 1909
CO
894.24
RVA
145
894.24/553
Dear dear r. Secretary:
I an enclosing for
r your infora tion a petition
I received tod y fron several residents of my District relative to the
sale of ra war meterials to Japan. I chell appreciate your
attention o this matter.
With personal regards, 1 am
Very sincerely yours
Honorable Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
an
Washington, D. C.
F/A

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.99)
The Hon. D. Lane Powers,
U. S. House of Representatives,
Washington, D. C.
WHEREAS, the United States of America and many other
nations have indicted Japan as the violator of the Nine-
Power Treaty and the Kellogg Pact, 1n the present Sino-
Japanese confliot, fomented by the Military Party of
Japan, and have repeatedly protested against the bombings
of undefended Chinese cities and the unnecessary slaughter
of Chinese non-combatants, and
Whereas, we feel put to shame that American raw materials
are being used to manufacture weapons of war for Japan,
American planes are being used to carry American-made
bombs for the destruction of Chinese civilian population,
Amerlcan shells are leading Japanese guns, and America is
supplying to Japan huge quantities of scrap-iron, oil,
trucks and other materials used in the furtherance of
the war, over and above the amounts of our normal trade
of recent years, and
Whereas, we sympathize with the Chinese people in the
desire to build up an independent, democratic state, an
end gravely threatened by the present aggression of Japan,
and deplore the traffic which makes it possible for certain
American interests to profit from the wanton destruction
of the innocent victims of Japanese aggression,
THEREFORE, we the undersigned respectfully petition the
Government of the United States, in accordance with the
principle of its Good Neighbor enunciation, and in the
interest of the people of the United States, China and
Japan, to take every practicable means, direct or indirect,
to bring to an end a traffic from our country which 1s
compelling us to be a partner in the destruction of the
Chinese people.
MABEL D. MACINTOSH
Princeton, N. J.
ORA B. DODDS
Montclair, N.J.
CAROLYN P. BLACKWOOD
rinceton, N.J.
CATHERINE M. MARTEN
ALICE D. K. COTTON
CARRIE M. ARMSTRONG
HELEN C. BREARLEY
LAURA S. TURNBULL
GRACE W. LOOMIS

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
GRACE W. LOOMIB
Princeton, N.J.
MARION M. HUTCHINSON
JANET J. S. COAN
ELIZABETH S. HAVENS
0
EDITH H. GROFF
ESTHER M. LOOS
MARGHARETTA H. LINK
DOROTHY C. HARRIS
JEAN B. DAVIS
Aurora, New York
ESTHER M. LOOS
Princeton, N. J [duplicate]
EDNA HATFIELD
CHARLES R. ERDMAN; JR.

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.97)
Janvary 18 1989
Im reply refer to
00 004.24/553
My dear Mr. Powers:
I moknowledge the receipt of your letter of
January 10, 1939 enolosing a petition s1gned by a
number of your oonstituents in regard to the export
894.24/55
of war and other materials to Japan.
It is suggested that you may wish to transmit to
these petitioners the enolosed coples of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937 and the
5
3
pamphlet Intornational Traffic in Arme and inform them
somewhat along the following lines:
It will be observed that Section 1 (a) of
this Joint Reselution provides that whenever
the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more foreign
states he shall proolaim suoh fact. Should the
President issue a proelamation finding that a
state of war exists between China and Japan,
the export from this country of arms, ammunition,
and implements of war to both China and Japan
would be immediately prohibited. In the absenee
of such a proelamation, there is ne statutory
authority
The Honorable
D. Lane Powers,
F1
House of Representatives.
A

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.95)
autherity for preventing smch experts. Imeidentally,
yeu will of eourse realize that è preclamatien
would have placed an embargo on the shipment of
the material mentioned not only to Japan but to
China.
The Neutrality Act, moreover, does net authorise
the President or the Seeretary of State umder any
eiroumstanses to prohibit the export of commedities
other than arms, ammumition, and implements ef war.
The articles and materials which are considered to
be arms, ammumition, and implements of war are
enumerated in the President's Proclamation of May 1,
1937, which 1s set forth under Part II of the
enolosed copy of the pamphlet International Traffle
10.
It may be of interest to know that sinee July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued licenses for
the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war
to China 1n the value of $14,295,352.30 and to Japan
1n the value of $10,895,865.38. In this connection
I may add, however, that in view of the faot that
this Government has frequently expressed publioly
1ts oondemnation or the bombing of civilian popule-
tions from the air and has made known to Ameriean
mammfacturers its disapproval of the erport of
aeronautical supplies to countries the armed forees
of whieh are engaged in such bombing, the issmance
of llcenses for the export of aireraft and airoraft
supplies to countries, the armed forces of whieh are
engaged in suoh bombing at the present time, has now
virtually eeased.
The petition which ascompanied your latter is returned
herewith.
Sincerely yours,
JN 13 1939 PM
Cordell Hui.
kodin
Enclosures:
1. Joimt Resolution approved
May 1, 1937.
2. Pamphiet.
ort
3. Petition.
D
CO:RVH:GAL:8S
1/12
FE
nee

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.95)
COMMITTE
NavaL Appane
POST OPPICE AND POET
REceCongress of the United States
WAR CLAIMG
FIARTMENT OF STA
Souse of Representatibes
Washington, D. C.
1939 JAN 11 AM 11 13
aluary 17 1909
January 10,1939.
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
1A
271939
894.24
d15 39
b.vision of
Honorable Cordell Hull,
FASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I am taking the liberty of transmitting to you a
protest from the Whipple School Parent-Teachers Association,
of Portsmouth, New Hampshire, protesting against Japan's
aggression in China and the fact that citizens of the
United States are selling war supplies to Japan.
894.24/554
Any comment you mey care to make on the enclosure
would be gratefully received by me.
With every good wish, I am
Cordially yours,
M.C.
F/A

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.99)
Portsmouth, New Hampshire,
December 13, 1938
Congressman Arthur Jenks,
Manchoster, New Hampshire.
My dear Mr. Jenks:
Members of the Whipple School Parent-Teachers Asso-
clation of Portsmouth, New Hampshire, are much distressed
over Japan's bloody aggression in China. And we are 1n-
expresal bly shocked and shamed that our United States, a
supposedly peace-loving, democratic, Christian nation, and
professed friend of China, should permit the war-profiteers
amongst us to furnish Japan with more than half of all the
military supplies and munitions of war by which she 1s on-
abled to carry forward this unequal and inhuman campaign of
slaughter, destruction, and confiscation.
This unholy part-
nership with an aggressor 1s unworthy of American 1dealism!
It 1s flatly contradictory to our vaunted "Good-Neighbor Policy"!
We protest against it! It must be ended.
Therefore, we urge
upon you, as our representative, the initiation or support of
such legislation as will, at whatever risk of offense to Japan,
speedily dissolve this dreadful alliance!
Most earnestly and urgently yours,
JULIA F. BUTLER- PRIN.
LEROY C. MOORE, PRES. P.T.A.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.92)
January 17 1989
y Gear . Jemker
The reselpt is eeknewledged of your letter of
Jamuary 10, 19se emelesing a letter dated Decembe 13,
103e frem the Whipple Sehoel Parent-Teachers Assecia-
Siem of Portsmouth, New Nampehire, in regard to the
expers of war materials to Japan.
It is suggosted that you may wish to tranemit the
894.24/55
emslesed coples of the Joint Reselution of Cengress of
May 1, 1ost and the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traffie In
Ams, to the Whipple Seheel Pareat-Teachers Asseciation
and inferm it semewhat along the fellowing lines:
5
4
It will be observed that Seetien 1 (a) ef this
Jeint Reselution prevides that whenever the Presi-
dont shall find shat there exists è state ef war
between er emong twe er mere fereign states he shall
prealaim suek feet. Should the President issue a
preelematien finding that a state ef war existe be-
Sweem Chima and Japen, the expert frem this eouatry
of arms, ammumition, and implememts ef war to beth
Chime
The Kenerable
Asthmar B. Jenks,
F/A
Bouse of Representatives.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.88)
-2
Gmine and Sepen would be Immodtately prehtbéted.
In the absenee ef sush a preelamasion, there Ss
me statutery muthority for proventing sush ex-
perts. Ineldentally, you will of eourse realise
that, la view ef whas is abeve stated, a preele-
matien wonld have pleeed an embarge en the ship-
ment of the material mentienel mot enly to Japan
but to Ghine.
The Neutrality Ast, mereever, dees met as-
therise the President er the Beeretary of State
under any eireumstanees to prehibit the expert
ef commedities ether than arms, mmunitien, and
Implements of war. The artieles and materials
which are censtdered te be arms, mmumitien, and
implements of war are enumerated in the Presi-
dent's Preelamation ef May 1, 1937, which 1s set
forth under Part II of the enelosed copy of the
pamphlet Intermattonal Trarrio in Arms.
It may be of laterest to know that sinee
July 1, 19s7, the Department of state has 1ssued
lieemses for the expert of arms, ammumitien, and
Implements of war te Chine in the value of
$14,295, 352.30 and to Japan in the value of
$10,005,868.38.
The letter frem the Whipple Seheel Parent-
Feashers Asseeiatien is returmed herewith.
Sineerely yours,
Cordell muir
Enelesures:
CR
2. Joint Reselution.
JAN 14 1959
Routine
Scheol Parent-Teachers
the dte oriari-
Asseeiation.
nal.
nt
D
cous

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.92)
Docember 20 1958.
Me.Baaaer:
M referenee frem the White Neuse I acknewledge
the reeeipt of your letter of Nevember 23, l93s en-
894.24/555
elest coveral papere and a copy es a letter per-
ently frem Miss Virginia N. Atkinsen, a missiemary
in China, in regard to the situation mow obtaining in
the Far mst.
I appresiate your courtesy in transmitting these
enelesures whieh you may be sure have been duly neted.
With regard to the Far Eastern situation I am
enslesing fer your convenient referenee a copy of the
Joint Reselution of Congress appreved May 1, 1937,
cemmenly referred to as the Noutrality Let. It will
be ebserved that Seetion 1(a) of this Jeiat Reselu-
sien prevides that whenever the President shall find thas
there exists a state ef war between er emong twe er mere
fereign
F/A
Ms. . . Basaee,
Reek.m1l1e, Alabem.

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.96)
8-
fereigm states he shall proolaim suoh fact. Should the
President issue a proelmation finding that a state of
war exists between China and Japan, the export from this
eountry of aras, ammunition, and implezents of war to
oth China and Japan would be izaediately prohibited.
In the abeenee of suoh a proolamation, there 1s no statu-
tory authority for preventing suoh exports.
In determining not to 1ssue a proolamation, the
President has exeroised the disoretion vested in him by
the statute. He oould not fall to reoognize that the
primary purpose of this statute 1s to keep this country
out of war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take into
account all the pertinent conditions and oiroumstances.
Inoidentally, I may stress the faot, 1n view of what 1s
above stated, that a proolamatlon would have plaoed an
ombargo on the shipment of the material mentioned not
only to Japan but to Ohina.
The Noutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize
the President or the Seoretary of State under any oiroum-
stanoes to prohibit the export of commoditles other than
arms, ammunition, and implements of war. The artioles
and materlals whioh are considered to be arms, ammunition,
and implemente of war are enumerated in the President's
Proolamation

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
Preelamatiom of May 1, 1937, whieh 1s set forth wmder
Part II of the emelosed cepy of the pamphlet Interne-
tiomal Traffio in Arms.
You may be interested to know that siace July 1,
1937, the Department of State has issued licenses for
the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war
to Ch1na 1n the value of $14, 367,902.30 and to Japan
in lhe va1me of §10,793, 805.38.
I may add with referenoe to the bombing of oivil-
lan populations and the probable danger to Americans
and Amerioan interests abroad, that the Beoretary of
State has stated publioly on repeated oocasions that
this Government condemns the bombing of civilian popula-
tions or its material enoouragement. The Government's
condemnation of this practice has been expressed directly
to all manufacturers and exporters in this country of
airplanes and aeronautioal equlpment.
In complianoe with your request the enolosures to
your letter are returned herewith. The stamped, addressed
envelope is also returned.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Secretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chier
Office of Arms and Munit'ons Control
(For enclosures, see following page)

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
Enelosures:
1. Joint Resolution
approved May 1, 1937.
2. International Traffic
in Arms pamphlet.
3. Original enolosures.
4. Self-addressed,
stamped envelope.
5
CAI RVH: EAS: 3S
FE
12/14/3A
DRC 1e 8.
 20 1938.

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.88)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF ARMS AND MUNITIONS CONTROL
FA:
FE:
It will be noted that the writer of this letter,
Mrs. W. W. Banner, states that her missionary friend
1n China, Miss Virginia M. Atkinson, is now a prisoner
1n Shangha1 and that her home in China has been wrecked.
In this conneotion it ooours to me that you may
wish to give consideration to this phase of Mrs. Banner's
letter and, if so, I suggest that you furnish this office
with an appropriate paragraph or paragraphs for ineorpora-
tion in our reply to Mrs. Banner.
1.
F
That he
FEV.
011
Charlee w, Yost
Aoting Chzor
traned out
stirt
ont
ら
CA:RVH-VTS:SS

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.96)
THE COMMUNITY CHURCH
BOSTON. MASS.
REV. DONALD G. LOTHROP
CHURCH OFFICE
Leader and Executive Sec'y
BYRON STREET
DR. CLARENCE R. SKINNER
Leader Emeritus
December 13, 1938.
Mr. Summer Wells
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Wells:
The Peace Action Council of the Comnunity
894.24/556
Church of Boston, which represents one of the
larger congregations in the city, passed without
any onposition the enclsed resolution.
Cordially,
Donalles fothop
Donald G. Lothrop
DGL:ENS
Enc.
1.1938
Ur PARTMENT OF ST
F
/A

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.97)
THE COMMUNITY CHURCH
1710
REV. DONALD G. LOTHROP
CHURCH OFFICE
Leader and Executive Sec'y
ceeurer
6 BYRON STREET
DR. CLARENCE R. SKINNER
TEL. CAPITOL 6284
Leader Emeritus
Dec. 5, 1938.
Whereas the United States, by furnishing Japan with 54% of the materials
used in her war on China, is in effect Japan's greatest ally, and
Whereas there is growing pu lic opinion that the present Neutrality Law
X
(which is to expire Nay 1, 1939) not only fails to promote peace in the
Orient but actually aiis the Ja anese militarists in their war in China,
BE IT ESoLUED that the Peace Action Council of the Cotmunity Church of
Boston request and urge our President and members of Congress not to renew
or extend the seid Neutrslity Law and that Con ress shall instead pass an
act which sall distin uish between the aggre sor and the victim as between
two warrin:, nations, an: bar all shipments of raw materials as well as
mnitions of war to the aggressor nation, and shall lend corresponding
assistance to the victim nation; or, in the altern tive, rcise the present
Neutrality Act so that the President my in its applic tion distinguish
between the agressor nation ani the victim nstion, :nd bar all shipments of
raw naterials for war purposes as well as munitions to the aggressor nation;
and
BE IT FURTTER RESOLVED that the said Peace Action Council of the Com unity
Church of Boston hereby ures and calls unon the President and Secretary of
State, and all other agencies of the Federal Court, to exercise thet several
7
authorities to reduce and restrict the conuct of all economic intercourse
with Janan during her present aggression; and especially, thst the President
immediately invoke the flexible provisions of the so-called Smoot-Hawley Tariff
Act to impose upon Jananese imports to America the highest customs rates per-
missable under that act, as a means of meeting the present emergency.

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
How Does It Work?
The Community Church of Boston is an incorporated
body. It has the usual executive officers and an executive
board elected annually. The authority rests in its mamber-
ship which is free to all who sign the following statement
of purpose and bond of union.
Statement of Purpose
The Community Church is a free fellowship of men
and women united for the study and practice of universal
religion, secking to apply ethical ideals to individual lite
and the co-operative principle to all forms of social and
economie life.
Bond of Union
"W'e, the undersigned, accepting the stated Purpose of this
Church, do join ourselves together that we may help one
another, may multiply the power of cach through mutual
fellowship, and may thereby promote most effectively the
cause of truth, righteousness and love in the world".
How Is The Church Financed?
The collections which are taken on Sunday morning
provide for approximately one third of the budget. Two
thirds of the budget must be provided for by contributions
and pledges made by the members and friends of the Church.
The Church owns no property and depends entirely upon
its friends and members for its support.
The Church needs your financial support.
We want to increase our activities and enlarge our
program.
When you help us you are building a firmer foundation
for the hopes and ideal for which we stand. You are
adding strength to a dynamic center whose purpose it i
to assist in every way possible the realization of those
principles.
WILL YOU AID US?
Send contributions and make checks payable to
THE COMMUNITY CHURCH OF BOSTON
Offict: 6 BYRON STREET, BOSTON, MASS.
Tel. CAPitol 6284
Officers and Board of Directors
Rev. Donald G. Lothrop, Leader
James H. Lewis, Pres. Mrs. Arthur A. Shurcliff, Treas.
C. F. Klebsattel, Vtec-Pres.
Herbert C. Read, Clerk
Miss Alison Campbell
James A. Martin
Stuart Chapin
Mrs. Grace T. Lopaus
Miss Zara duPont
Fdward Spiegel
Eugene P. Whittier

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
THE
COMMUNITY CHURCH
OF BOSTON
"A Free Pulpit In Action"
SERVICES
SYMPHONY HALL
SUNDAYS 10:30 A. M.
WHAT IT IS
WHAT IT STANDS FOR
WHAT IT DOES
HOW IT WORKS
"A Church that believes only in past inspiration will appeal
to old book, as the standard of truth and source of light,
will be antiquarian in its habits, will call its children by
the old names and war on the new age . . . A Church that
believes in inspiration NOW' will. . . try things by reason
and conscience; aim to surpass the old heroes; and using
the present age, will lead public opinion, not follow it".
THEODORE PARKER

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
A Church
The Community Church is a church. In fact, it follows
more closely the original pattern of the Colonial New
England Church than most churches in existence today.
First thete is the simplicity of the service. It must be
recalled that in the early days ritual of any kind was
barred from the Puritan Church. Musical instruments were
looked upon as alien and evil symbols of that which had
corrupted the church. The Community Church has pre-
served that simplicity. However, the role of music in the
service is by no means ignored. On the contrary a high
standard has always been maintaned.
Another point of sumilarity is the importance of the
address or sermon. The sermonette was not the polite thung
that it is today in the modern church. When church
attendants received a real discourse ot at least an hour's
duration, it was necessary to apply one's mind to the subject
matter. It required a genuine intellectual effort. The
Community Church has maintained this tradition. It is
true, of course, that the language is not the same. Three
hundred years ago the sermons were delivered in the con-
temporary language—the verbal coin in circulation in that
day and age. Today the spiritual and moral urge must be
expressed in the language of modern philosophy and scienee.
both physical and social, otherwise its meanings may not
be exchanged among men. The vehicle of expression, how-
ever, must not be confused with the content. Not only
intrinsic worth causes the secular to become the sacred.
Time is also a factor in the process. The secular of today
becomes the sacred of tomorrow.
There is still another aspect of similarity between the
old New England Church and the Community Church and
that is the meeting place. The Church of 3oo years ago
was not only a house of worship it was a hall in which
the town meetings were held. It was not the out ward
aspects of the building which determined it holiness. It
was rather the purposes for which it was used which de-
marcated the sacred from the secular.
What Is The Community Church?
The Community Church is an organization of religious,
moral and social forces, based on new principles. It re-
cognizes that the true foundation for a Church should not
be a divisive and speculative theological creed, but rather
a free fellowship of all men who are seeking a better world
and a better life. It has no theological test. It allows
absolute freedom for conscientious individual interpretation
of truth. It recognizes an element of validity in all systems
and practices absolute toleration. Its congregation is there-
fore made up of representatives of all religionsChristianity.
Judaism, Hinduism, Confucianism, Buddhism, as well as
of all the various sects and philosophies. It is a Church in
which all can unite, without sacriticing their individual
opinions.
The Community Church endeavors to be a spiritual
expression of the democratic life. It recognizes the necessity
of freedom from private dictatorship. The Boston Church
is therefore directed by Boston people, and it grows out of
the life of the local community. No denomination or sect
has or ever can have control over it and no social or
economic class can possess it. It is as democratic as the
community, as free as citizenship, as universal as humanity.
The congregation is therefore made up of people from all
classes, all races, all conditions.
The Community Church welcomes science as one of the
highest revelations of truth. It recognizes the necessity of
social reconstruction if individuals are to attain their best
and it therefore tries to inspire individuals with a social
vision.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.98)
It realizer the value of modern psychology and endeavors
to interprgt life and especially religion in harmony with
che new truths which have been developed in thi ficld.
The Community Church of Boston therctore is con
temporary and vital. It draws all types and lasses to its
meetings, is fearless in search of truth . brad in its
sympathies, is inspiring in its services.
What Does It Stand For?
The Community Church has no creed, but it stands for
principles and purposes.
Its foremost object is to create community; that is,
common unity. It belheves that the time has come in the
history of civilization when mankind must be united; that
our present interdependent social order must find a common
denominator. The falure to find and develop a common
life will mean wars, race hatreds, class antagonism, strifes
and bitterness. But in so far as men can find common
interests, and share in a common life, the world can be
turned toward peace, plenty and fulfillment.
The Community Church stands for creating community,
1, Bet ween the individual and the universe. 2, Between
individuals within the local community. 3, Between com-
munities and groups within the nations. 4, Between the
nations and races throughout the world.
The Community Church stand for creating the best
possible individuals so that we may have the best possible
social order. It stand for creating the best possible social
order so that we may have the best possible individuals.
Its purpose is thus both individual and social.
What Does It Do?
It is not enough to provide an analysis of social, moral,
and phulosophue truth not enough to appeal to man's
intellect. Neither is it sutti ent to stimulate the emotions
and idealism of men as necessary as these things are. In
the word of Theodore Parker, whose Twenty-eighth Con-
gregational Society founded in Boston almost one hundred
years ago is the spiritual father of the Community Church,
"I et us have a Church for the whole man: truth for the
mind, love for the heart, and good works for the hands."
Thus there has been established several organs of action
--the Councils whose purpose it is to carry over into deeds
the inspiration of relhgion and the logic of its thought.
There is the COOPERATIVE C )UNCIH. whose concern
is to assist the building of the cooperative movement and
to provide the specific means of using the cooperative
principle in the life of the members of the Church. Already
a Community Credit Union has been brought into existence
by the Council. Other projects are being considered and
in time will find their way into practice.
The PIACI ACTION COUNCIH carries on work
by itself and with other Peace agencies toward the end
that the war system be abolished.
The SOCIAL JUSTICE AND CIVII. LIBFRTIES
COUNCI1. acts as a guide for energies of the Church
members and friendy in several vital projects. Money has
been raised, clothing and food gathered, intercession with
civil authoritics to the end that justice be served and
Constitutional and Human Rights be preserved and extended.
The DISC USSION GROUP COMMITTEE organizes
Forum Suppers and study groups for the purpose of making
the work of the Church a continuous and growing process.
The FHLIOW'SHIP of the Church takes upon itself the
cultivation of the personal and social needs of the con-
gregation, assisting in the pastoral work of the Church—
the attendance upon the sick and the creation of friendship.
The YOUNG PEOPLES SOCIETY carries on the work of
the Church among the youth.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.93)
The Community Church of Boston
Non-Sectarian)
Symphony Hall
NCE R. SKINNER, Lomler Emeritus
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1938
MUSIC 10:30 10: 15 A. M.
Andante from Symphony
Goldmark
Pastorale
Wely
Arioso
Bach
Jessie Hatch Symonds, violin
Normam S Gellatly. pio
Leo Jaakkola, violo
Margaret Gorhan Glaser, orgon
10: 15 A. M. ORDER OF SERVICE
INVOCATION
HYMN (1)
"Come, thou Almighty Will!"
READING
INTERLUDE
Clair de lune
Debussy
PRAYER
RESPONSE
NOtICEs
OFFERING
Melody
Drorak-kreisler
HYMN (2)
"Man's comradeship is very wide"
ADDRESS
REINHOLD MEBL HR. U nion Theological Seminary
"The Cutural Foundations of Democracy and
Fascism"
BENEDICTION
Hmn (3)
"The crest and crowning of all good"
NoTicE Quiet During Mesie' Please do not disturh those me or Jon by Lalking
during the monsie Please refraon trom pplomse durng the ddress
It is requested that all remon unnl dter the Benediction.
FORU M 12:00 12:30 P. M1.
Statement of Purpose
The Community Church is a free fellowship of men nd women united for the
study and practice of universal religion, secking to apply ethic l idcads to individual
life and the co-operative principle to all forms of social and cconomme life.
Subscriptions
This Church is a fre church. supported utirely by the coluntary contributions
ot those whe luli in its idouls md ord. 1 o lue mot done Yol purt for
this churh m. plose snd mour peae propty. potde lfore June. l to th
Commanit Churrh office Baron Strt. Boston. Plodge carids are arailable at the
Serretrns Tulle in thu l

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.94)
Future Speakers
Dec. 18 — BRUCE HOPPER,
AUTHOR AND PROFESSOR
AT HARVARD UNIVERSITY
"Soviet Foreign Policy After Munich"
Dec. 25 — DONALD G. LOTHROP, LEADER OF COMMUNITY CHURCH
"A Liberal Interpretation of Christmas"
(Service at 10:30 A. M. at 6 By ron St., Boston)
Jan. 1—JOHN HAYNES HOLMES
Mar. 12—Symposium
PROF. J. A. C. F. AUER
Jan. 8—RABBI EDWARD L. ISRAEL
PROF. E. S. BRIGHTMAN
Jan. 15—FREDERICK L. SCHUMAN
Mar. 19—J. RAYMOND WALSH
Jan. 22—ROGER BALDWIN
Mar. 26—To be announced
Jan. 29—MARY vanKLEECK
Apr. 2—JOHN HAYNES HOLMES
Apr. 9—BASIL MATHEWS
Fob. 5—JOHN HAYNES HOLMES
(Easter Service)
Fob. 12—WALTER WHITE
Apr. 16—LEWIS BROWNE
Feb. 19—LEWIS BROWNE
Apr. 23– HARRY F. WARD
Fob. 26—WM. ERNEST HOCKING
Apr. 30—To be announced
Mar. 5—EARL BROWDER
May 7—JOHN HAYNES HOLMES
Rev. Mr. Lothrop is av ilable for weddings, funcrals and personal consultation on
from 9 to 12, when he will be glad to meet any of the Church members or friends
who may wish to consult hum Oflice phone. Capitol 62st. Residence, Ht Naples Rod.
Brookline. Home phone, Longwood o397.
CHURCH MEMBERSHIP
It pon beliese in the purpese md work of the Communty Church of Boston
and are willing to sgn the follow ne Bond of U nion.
e the ursig p the std Purps of this huch dein
orss lhrt'mlieh
through mutt fllship   pr mt h c
truthris  li 
you are cordially unvited to becotoe mo tnt or- of this Church The Church Book msy
be found at the Secretarys t dle n the lobby \ conocmtent time to sgn i tforded
after the close of the serviee or atter the Forum peried.
ADDRESSES NOW AVAILABLE
The follow ng addreoes hase been publi-hed and are on sale at the Literature
Table today, priced at to. "The Adventures of Freedom in Ameriea" by Norman
Thomas. "Keeping Sone m , Mud World" Lo Remhold Niehuhr. md "New Voices"
hy Gr.nville Hick. Dr. Holoes crmon. "The Jewish Problem Whut . It.
is also available.
RUDOLPH ROCKER
Internationally Famous \uthor and Lecturer
will speak on
"The Democratic State and Fascism"
OLD SOUTH MEETING HOUSE
Monday
December 12
8 P. M.
Silver Collection at the Door
Auspices of the Libertartan Ora amizations of Bosion
(\小.)

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.87)
December Events
FORUM SUPPER
SYMPOSIUM ON ANTI-SEMITISM
"THE HISTORY OF ANTI-SEMITISM"
Spetker. DONALD G. LOTHROP
"THE PSYCHOLOGY OF ANTI SEMITISM"
Spcr. DR. D. V. McGRANAHAN.
Harvrd Soctal Psychologist
"THE SOCIAL FUNCTION OF ANTI-SEMITISM"
Speaker. CARL A. STORM, Instructor of
Social Problems at Tufts College
Monday, December 12
6 Byron Street
Supper at 6:30, 60€
Speaking at 7:30. 25c
Make reservations ToD A t the Seeretry Tble in the Lobby
YOUNG PEOPI.E'S SOCIETY OF THE COMMUNITY CHURCH
The reeular mectine will take ple tont hit t o iyron S rot  P:3o P M
Speker. SAMUTL. B LEVINE. recen ppoed to pe  Imverst
Estenston Course on Employce RLitonshp Subget, T1 RECE NT1
DOPTED W AGES ND HOUR BLI REeHnt WGI Le rd AI
poung people are invited.
COOPERATIVE COUNCIL
The Cooperative Counel will hold ont mme tn: wth metobe: ot the Mt \oo
Church who tre nterested n Consumer Cooprtion.  \t \ernon (Chuurch.
Masschusett、 Acnue, Boston, on Wdresd y cmne. Drr cmber Ph. t S oelock
Speaker, OTTO ROSSMAN. Field Mm tor Eesterm St es Croperthee Lerem
 mew study group on Cooperative Medheime i tooctine twiee mmonthly
Inquure at the Cooperative Table in the lobby
Thirty four persons have so for subseribed to t on  I on. cehton hhe
just reccived their tirst copies They are so ph sed woth thetm thut sote looe
hought new subscriptions a、 Christmas gtft、 to triend d relativt. Isn't thut the
best test: Subscribe today at the Cooper tive T ble
DISCUSSION GROUP
The Diseussion Group mrecet crch Wedneoday crcmne t s oelock d the home of
Re md Mr Lothrop. 111 Nple Rod. Broone i Coonwe dth \
Speaker tor December Hth. THoNAs 1 1 1OT. fommer Gonerrd Counsd tor the
Soctal Socurity Bourd, a d recont comdaoF e tor Coneres in the oth Coneresstond
District. Subject: "THE \NTI MONOPOLY COMATTEI WHHEH W N
MERtC A". Friend of the Church e mvited Wodnesday. Dee. 2sth. woll be
omitted.
THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE COMMUNITY CHURCH
Open House at 6 Byron Street December 1Sth at B:3o P. M Speaker, EDW ARD
SPIEGEL. Subject: "MEXICO A COU NTRY OF CONTR ASTS". There will
also a museal program. Every body weleome.
SPECIAL NOTICE
There wil be OPEN HOt SI CHRISTMAS EA E, Sturday, December PIth, a
6 By ron Street under the auspices of The Fellow ship

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.93)
(1)
Come, thou Almightly Will!
Come, Light serene and still!
Our fainting bosoms fill
Our darkened spirits fill
With thy great power:
With thy clear day:
Strength of our good intents,
Guide of the feeble sight,
Our tempted hour's defense,
Star of grief's darkest night,
Calm of faith's confidence,
Reveal the path of right,
Come, in this hour.
Show us thy way!
Tune: Italiamn IHymn
Fol Grordini. 1709, alt.
(2)
Man's comradeship is very wide,
A large and noble throng,
By toil and tears and faith allied,
And suffering and song.
The vast democracy of earth,
The fellowship of man
Who asketh any nobler birth
Than son to human clan?
Tune: Bderma
(3)
The crest and crowning of all good
Come, clear the way, then clear the way!
Life's final star is brotherhood,
Blind creeds and kings have had their day,
For it will bring again to earth
Break the dead branches from the path:
Her long-lost poesy and mirth;
Our hope is in the aftermath —
Will send new light on every face,
Our hope is in heroic men,
A kingly power upon the race,
Star-led to build the world again.
And till it comes, we men are slaves,
To this event the ages ran:
And travel downward to our graves.
All hail the Brotherhood of Man!
Tune: Hamburg
Edin Marhm
I o  t   he p    inori o h
cho or  t  dd l to  o n 
maiting list. pls ult in t  l l t t l it t theSts Tale
in the Lb r mil it t th huh i un Strt. Bston.
Please Print
Mr.
\1r2
\Mi.
Phone.
Street.
Cil

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.93)
secember 17 195.
My dear Mr. Lothrop:
I have your letter of December 13, l9se, with which
you enelose a copy of e resolution passed by the Peace
Action Council of the Community Churoh of Boston in regard
to matters relating to the situation in the Far Last.
The contents of the Counoil's resolution have been
894.24/556
given careful consideration and your courtesy in bringing
the views of the Counoil to my attention is appreciated.
You mey be assured that we are giving the olosest atten-
tion to every phase of the situation in the Far East and
that we weleome and give careful consideration at all
times to eomments and suggestions in regard to all pheses
of our foreign relations.
Sineerely yours,
Bumner Welled
Aoting Secretary
The Reverend
F
Benald e. Lethrep,
CR
A true coup of
som
the signe xigi-
DEC 17 1938.
Leader and Executive Becretary
nal.
of The Cemmamity Chureh,
Boston, Massachusetts.
2414
£9.C.
m.m20
12/16/38
BCIL

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.93)
San Jose State College
VFHoung Momen's Christian Association
TMILNTOFAL
SAN JOSE. CALIFORNIA
1938 D5C 16 PM 3 35
December 12, 1938
sac0mper 27 1938.
Cch212/20/38
F
OH3
CO
IONS
ANDORDS
1938
livision of
894.24
IAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
626201938
Cordell Hull
Washington, D. C.
Department ot ba
Dear Secretary Hull:
The Advisory Board of the San Jose State College Y.W.C.A. has
adopted the enclosed resolution.
894.24/557
Because there is an increasing concern on the Pacific Coast about
America's share in Japan's war guilt, we, as a representative group
of citizens, wish to express to you an earnest appeal for legis-
lation that will bring to an end this present sale of munitions
and raw materials for war purposes to Japan.
Yaurs truly,
maber
Secretary of College Y.W.C.A.
Advisory Board
F

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.99)
RESOLUTION CONCERNING JAPANESE
MUNITIONS MBARGO
Adopted by the Advimory Board of the YWCA
San Jose State College. December 8, 1958
WHEREAS
Japanese aggression in China constitutes a
menace to that principle of democracy which
we recognize as basic to modern civilization, and
WHEREAS
Individuals and corporations in the United States
of Americe are aiding Japan by the sale of muni-
tions and munition materials, thus heavily handi-
capping the Chinese people in their struggle to
defend their country, be it
RESOLVED
That we, the Advisory Board of the San Jose State
College Young Women's Christian Association, in
accordance with the action of our national organ-
ization, declare our conviction that a complete
embargo should be placed on all munition material
to Japan, and be it further
RESOLVED
That we urge President Frnaklin Roosevelt and
Secretary of State Cordell Hull to take immediate
action toward this and, and be it further
RESOLVED
That the President, Secretary of State, and Congress
be urged to pass legislation to regulate shipments
of munition materials to other countries, limiting
them to normal peace-time quotas, and be it further
RESOLVED
That we offer all possible cooperation to all local
civic organizations in furthering the embargo, and
be it further
RESOLVED
That a copy of these regulations be spread upon the
minutes and sent to each of the following: The
President, Secretary of State, Congresmman-elect,
Jack Anderson, Senator Hiram Johnson, Senator-elect
Sheridan Downey, and the San Jose Lions Club.

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.93)
m. Sanage
Plom 329
Decomber 27 1938.
My dear Mise Grumbey:
The receipt is moknowledged of your letter of
Desember 12, l938 enolosing a eopy of a resolution
whieh was adopted by your Advisory Board on December 8,
1938 in regard to the export of war materials to Japan
and to the enaotment of legislation controlling the
quantity of suoh exports to other foreign countries.
Your courtesy in furnishing the Department with
a copy of this resolution is greatly appreciated, and
you may be sure that it will receive careful consider-
894.24/557
ation.
With regard to the Far Eastern situation, your
attention is invited to seetion 1(a) of the Joint
Resolution of May 1, 1937, commonly referred to as
the Neutrality Aot, a copy of which is emelesed, which
provides that whenever the President shall find that
there
Miss Mabel 6. Grumbey,
Seeretary of Gellege Y.w.6.A.
Anvisony Beara,
San Jese State Gellege,
F/A
Sam Jese, Salifermia.

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
there exists a state of war between or among two or more
foreign states he shall proulaim suoh faot. hould the
President lssue a proolamation finding that a state of
war exists between China and Japan, the export from this
country of arms, ammunition, and 1mplemente of war to
both China and Japan would be immodiately prohibited.
In the ubeence of such a proclamation, thore le no
tatutory autnority for preventing muuh exports.
In determining not to 1saue a proclamation, the
President has exeroised the disoretion vested in hix by
the statute. He oould not fall to reoognize that the
nrimary purpose of thls statute is to keep this country
out of war, and he, of oourse, felt obliged t) take into
acoount all the nertinent conditions and oiroumstanoes.
Inoidentally, I may strens the faot, in view of what 1s
above stated, that a proclaration wouls have placed an
embargo on the shipment or the material mentioned not
only to Jaoan but to China.
The Noutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize
tho Presiaent or th- Secretary f State under any oir-
oumstanoes to prohibit the export of cormorities oth'r
than erme, ammunitlon, and 1mploments of war. The
artioles and me als wich are considered to be arms,
ammunition, aid in lement: oi wul are enume ated in the
Pres1dent's

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.90)
-8
President's Preelamation of Mey 1, 195t, whieh 1s eet fertm
under Part II of the enolosed sopy of the pamphles ater-
national Traffte n Am.
You may be Laterested to knew that simee July 1,
1939, the Department of State has issued lieemsee fer
the erport of ares, emvunition, and implemente of war te
Chine 1n the value of $14,367,902.30 and to Japam 1n the
value of $10,895,865.30.
Sincerely yours,
For the Loting Secretary of State:
Charles W. Yost,Asaistant Chier
Office of Arms and Munitions Contrel
Enelesuree:
1. Copy of Joint Resolution,
May 1, 1937.
2.
Pamphlet - International
CR/com
Traffio in Arms.
DRC 22 1938.PM
Pnd
CA:RVH: EN: 8S Y2/21
FB
news

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.95)
CHICAGO AND EASTERN ILLINOIS RAILWAY COMPANY
332 BOUTH MIOHIGAN AVENUE
9 1950
CHIC 08. D0cember 12, 1938.
894.24
Honorable Franklin D. Roosevelt
0 1938
The White House,
1AFFAIRS
ack 12-30-38
Washington, D. C.
371-0190
Rr Hyeman
My dear Mr. President:
1ent ul State
I am writing you this letter for the purpose of expressing
to you as strong a protest as I possibly can against our present so-called Neutral-
ity Law. We are presently having an excellent illustration of the extremely unfair
results of the applioation of this law and the very great embarrassment whioh our
country is experienoing from it. It would seem to be clear that the operation of
89
this law inevitably must result in our giving very material help to the stronger
side involved in a war between two other nations, while with equal certainty, it
4.24/
penalizes the weaker side. The result is our own country is neutral only in that
it suoceeds in itself keeping out of the war, but when it comes to being really
neutral between the warring nations, the operation of this act is a grim joke.
Japan is presently engaged in what is clearly an outrageous
5
and unwarranted war against China. Japan is getting something over half of its
5
essential war materials from our people in the United States, consisting prinoipal-
α
ly of oil, gasoline, airplanes, automobiles, trucks and sorap iron and steel. I
venture to say she could not carry on this war a month except for the faot that
she has a practically inexhaustible supply of these materials from our own people.
We doubtless are quite safe as far as any definite breach of neutrality is concern-
ed, by reason of the faot that none of these materials are carried over the Pacific
in American ships, but rather we require the Japanese to come over with their own
ships and transport this material back to their country. The fact that we aocord
the same privilege to the Chinese is again a grim joke, because, of course, the
Chinese have no ships to speak of that can engage in such commerce.
Both Japan and the United States are parties to the nine-
power treaty which, among other things, agrees to recognize and preserve the in-
tegrity of China as a nation, and also recognizes and agrees to support the prin-
ciple of the open door in China. In waging this present war against the Chinese,
Japan is committing a gross violation of the terms of that treaty. 'Is there any
F
good reason why the United States, as one of the signatory powers to that treaty,
1A
should not protest against this violation of the treaty by Japan, as one of the
other signatory powers? Instead of making such a protest, this country is coum-
tenanoing practically continuous business transactions by its own people who are
engaged in selling the essential munitions of war to Japan, without which that
country could not find it possible to proceed with this gross violation of the
nine-power treaty. If there is the slightest justification for that sort of con-
duot on the part of the United States, I would be very much interested in knowing
what it is.
I know it may be said that our people who have goods to
sell are entitled to have the markets of the world kept open for such sales, that
the business of the country may prosper. In the first place, it seems to moe

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.99)
onorable Franklin D. Roosevelt.
- 2 -
December 12, 1938.
that this is a penny wise and pound foolish polioy whenever it leads to such a
situation as we are witnessing in the case of the war being waged by Japan
against China. In the next place, it would seem to me that this country should
set an example as to what a treaty really means and when wehave entered into a
treaty with eight of the other great world powers, in which all parties agree to
observe the integrity of China as a nation and guarantees to support the prin-
oiple of the open door there, and any other one of the signatory powers to that
treaty commits such a olear violation of its terms as Japan is committing in the
prosent instance, this nation should not only protest against it, but should
withdraw from any and all dealings with that nation, until they show, not only
by their words, but by their actions, that they are observing, and will continue
to observe, their solemn obligations and agreements under the terms of the treaty.
The tragedy of the present situation is that for over a
century this great demooracy, the most powerful nation in the world, has come
more and more to be looked upon by the Chinese people as a sort of a big brother.
This country did a marvelously fine thing when they handed back to China the funds
involved in the Boxer indemnity payment and enabled China to use those funds to
send representatives of the finest of their youth to this country to be educated
and returned,to take places of leadership in China. The Chinese people have never
forgotten that generosity on our part. That is not the only instanoe of similar
aots in whioh the United States of tmerica have showm a fine spirit toward the
Chinese, all of which makes it especially difficult for those people now to com-
prehend how such a nation, being one of the parties to the treaty which explioitly
guarantees their integrity, should now not only fail to protest against the war
which is being waged against the Chinese by the Japanese, but should permit its
people to furnish support, without which Japan could not maintain that war thirty
days.
Another angle to this situation whioh is a travesty has oc-
ourred, I believe, within the year, when Congress appropriated some millions of
dollars to meet the ∞st of the construction of a substantial increase in the arma-
ment of our navy, at least one of the reasons for which was explained to be the
fact that the 5-5-3 treaty had expired, and Japan declined to renew it and was in-
sisting upon a 5-5-5 ratio and increasing their armament, and we found it necessary
to keep pace with them. Thus we are taxing our own people to the extent of millions
of dollars to match the armaments of a nation who are inoreasing theirs but who would
not be in a position to do so except for the fact that our own people are in effect
arming them by selling them these huge quantities of materials which are essential
to the up-building of these armaments by Japan.
As one citizen of the United States, I want to express my
vehement protest against this course. Any similar line of action by an individual
in his dealings with other individuals would be instantly denounoed for being just
what it is - a cowardly proceeding, unworthy of any honest man. I have never been
able to differentiate between the contracts of nations, as laid down in their
treaties, and the contracts of men, as laid down in their agreements. I feel that
the course we are pursuing is just as cowardly and just as dishonest as if the
thing whioh is involved were a contraot between you and me, instead of a treaty
between our nation and another nation.
I am only one out of the millions of the oitizens of this

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
Franklin D. Roosevelt.
- 3 -
December 12, 1938.
great country, but I know of no adequate way to register my feelings and speak
out to my.government except by means of such a commmication as this to you, as
the President of my country. I have written similar communications to Senator
Lewis, who I believe is one of the members of the Senate Committee on Foreign
Affairs, and also to Senator Fleot Lucas, and to the representative of my
district in the House. I most fervently hope that you and your associates in
the government, suoh as your very fine Seoretary of State, Mr. Hull (who, by
the way, was one of my associates in the House some years ago, when I had the
privilege of serving as one of the members of that body from this state) may
put this country of ours into the position it ought to occupy in this matter.
There might be some who might say that to take a strong position might raise
the danger of war. In the first place, I don't believe that for a minute, and
in the next place, much as I abhor war, there are some things that are a lot
worse, and one of them is a lack of that degree of honor which ought to char-
acterize every relationship of a country like ours with the other countries
of the world.
With kindeat ragards and best wishes,
y truly yours.

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.96)
January 9 1989
Ia reply refer to
My dear Dr. Thomson:
By referenoe from the white Houge I aoknowledge the
receiot of your letter of December 12. l938. 1n regard to
894.24/558
the situation now obtaining in the Far East.
I annreolate your oourtesy in tranmitting your views
oonoerning this matter and you may he aure that they will
reoeive the most oareful consideration. I may add that
statementa of opinion from thoughtful souroes are weloomed
8
at all times.
with regard to the exnort of war and other materials
to Japan, your attention 1s invited to Sootion 1 (a) of
the enolosed oony of the Joint Resolution of Congress ap-
proved May 1, 1937, whiah provides that whenever the Pres1-
dent shall find that there exists a state of war between
or among tm or more foreign states he ahall proolaim such
faot. should the President iseue a proolamation finding
that
F
The Honorable
1
Charles M. Thomson,
A
Chioago and Eastern Illinols Rallwey Comnany,
332 South Miah1gan Avemue,
Chiosgo, Illlnols.

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
that a state of war exists between Chima and Japan, the ex-
port from this sountry of arms, emmanitlon, and implements
of war to both Ohina and Japan would be 1mmediately pro-
hibited. In the absence of such a proelamation, there 1s
no statutory mthority for preventing suah exports.
In determining not to 1ssue a proclamation, the Presi-
dent has exeroised the disoretlon vested in him by the
ntatute. Inoidentelly, I mey atreas the funt, in view of
what le above stated, thet & proolamstlon rculd have plaoed
an embargo on the shioment of the materlal mentioned not
only to Japan but to China.
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, doss not authorize the
Preaident or the 3ecretary of 3tate under any oiroumstanoes
to pmhibit the export of commoditles other than arms, -
munition, and imnlements of ar. The artioles and waterial
whioh are considered t be rms, ammuni: on, end implements
of war are enumerated 1n he President e Proolamation of
May 1, 1937, which 1e set forth under P:rt II of he enalosed
oopy of the pauphlet Interneti nal Traffic 1n Arme.I
It w111
be noted that oil, gesoline, automobiles, truoks, acrao iron,
steel and similer materials ure nut included in: this enume-
ration.
here 1s no statute now in existenoe h1oh ould
euthorlze the President or the Seoretary of 3: ate to prohibit
the export of material: suoh as these to Japan or to any
othor

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
other foreign country.
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1,
1937, the Department of state has 1ssued l1oemses fer
the expert of arms, ammumitien, and implements of war to
Chima 1n the value of $14,367,902.30 and to Japam 1n the
value of $10,895,865.38.
In vier of the faet, hewever, that this Government
has frequemtly expressed publioly 1ts condemmation of
the bombing of eivilian populations from the air and has
made known to Ameriean manufacturers its disapproval ef
the export of aeronautical supplies to countries, the
armed foroes of which are engaged in such bombing, the
issuance of licenses for the export of airoraft and air-
craft supplies to countries the armed forces of which
are engaged in suoh bombing at the present time has now
virtually ceased.
with referenee to your observations concerning the
Mize-Power Treaty of February 6, 1922, I am emelosing
for your information a copy of the Department's press
release of Ootober 6, 1937. For your additional 1nforme-
tion in connection with this matter I am enelosing the
pemphlet The Conferense of Brucsels.
JAN 7 1939 neerely youre,
For the Acting Beeretary of ssater
Enel coures:
Jesoph C. Greem
Chief, Divisien of Cemtrele

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.93)
Raleigh Court Methodist Church
LC IVED
Edwin S. Sheppe, Jr.
TTOFA
Roanoke, Da.
Decomber 28 195
193816 AM 11 33
And
Dtal 2-1177
December 13, 1938
CC
IONS
URDS
PYH:MHP
@k12/21
To the Hon. Cordell Hull,
I:vinion of
Secretary of State,
AR EASTEAN AFFAIAS
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
m
89424
As Secretary of the Roanoke Virginia Minister's
Conference I have been instructed to forward to
you the enclosed resolutions passed by the con-
ference at a recent meeting.
You may be interested to know that this action
is the outgrowth of information received from
missionaries in China who have gone out from
Roanoke Churches and have written their constitu-
encies to the effect that the awful execution
being effected by Japanese armies comes from
American munitions that have been sold to Japan.
Respectfully,
Eduin S. Shappar.
894.24i
Jecretary.
ESS:B
Enc.
5
FI
A.
n
90

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.99)
Vihereas a state of actual, though undeclared,
war exists hetween Japan and China, and whereas
at uresent the sale of scrap iron, oil, and other
supplies from the Unite States to Japan is greatly
assisting the Japanese cause, and whereas the neu-
trality laws of the United States as at present
framed, provide that the President may declare a
state of war to exist and so put into effect the
neutrality laws
Now, therefore, be it resolved that we, the
menbers of the Roanoke Ministerial Association,
regpectfully petition the President of the United
States to declare that a state of war exists be-
tween Japan and China and to put into effect the
present neutrality laws and thus put a sto! to the
sales of munition and supplies to Japan, and be
it further resolved tht we transnit a copy of
this resolution to the Secretary of State, the
two senators fron Virginia, and the Congressman
of the Sixth District.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.92)
ocomber281938.
 dear Mr. Sheppe:
The reeeipt is acknowledged of your letter of
December 13, 1938, emelesing a copy of a resolusion
whieh wes adopted by your Conferenee in regard to the
export of war and other materials to Japan.
I appreeiate your courtesy in furmiehing the
894.24/559
Bepartment with e copy of this reselution, whieh, you
may be sure, will reseive the meet eareful censideration.
There is tremsmitted herevith a eopy of the Jeint
Reselution of Congrees approved May 1, 19s7, cemmealy
referred to as the Neutrality Aet. It will be obeerved
that Seetion 1(a) of this Jeint Resalutiom provides
that whenever the Presidemt shall find shat there exists
a etate ef war between or meng swe or more fereigm
states
The Reverend
Eawin S. Shoppe, Jr.,
FLA
Seeretary, Reaneke Virgimia Minister's Genferemee,
211 Westever,
Reancke, Virginia.

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.93)
-8
states he shall proelaim mweh feet. Sbould the President
1ssue a proelmmation finding that a state nf war exists
between China and Japan, the export from this coumtry of
arms, ammunition, and implements of war to both Chima and
Japen would be immedlately prohibited. In the absenee
of sueh - proclamatlon, there 1s no statutory authority
for preventing suoh exports.
In determining not to lssue a proelmmation, the
Prsident hrs exereieed the airoretion vested 1n him by
the statute. No could not fail to reoognize that the
primary purpose of th:e st-tute le t: keep this country
out of wer, and he, of course, felt obllged to take into
account all the dertinent oonditios end olroumetanees.
Inoidentally, I may strese the fact, in view of what 1s
above at: ted, that a proclemation would have plaoed en
embarro on the shipment of the matertal mentloned not
only to Jaonn but to China.
The Neutrality Aot, moreove, doen not authorire
the Pr eident or the seoretery of at te under any olr-
oumstanees to prohlbit the export of commoditles other
than arms, ammunition, and implement: or war. The
artiolee and materiale wtloh are oonaidered to be arms,
mmenition, and lmplemente of war are enumerated 1a the
Prep1 ent' Proelamatlon or May 1. '937, wh1on 1* eet
forth wnder Part II of the enolosnd cony of the pamphlet
Internattonal

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.91)
Internatiennl Izattle a Ame.
You may be Lnterested te kmew thss sinee July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued l1eemses for
the empert of arme, emmmitien, and implemente of var
to Ca1ne 1n the va1me of 814, 307,902.20 and to Japem
in the valeme of $10,896,865.38.
Sineerely yours,
For the Aeting Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Yest, Assistamt Chief
Offiee of Arme and Mumitions Centrel
Enclesures:
1. Jeims:Reselmtiom.
8. Pamphlet.
DEC 22 1938.
the signed origi
nal.
GA: RVE: MP 1 SS
5
PE
100U
12/m

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANAITTED
CONFIBENTIAL 
NONSONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washingion,
1939 MAY 11 PM 5 19
May 11, 1939.
6PM
AMEMBASSY,
COMMCATIONS
Thislesfi .
INPO: AMBMBASSY, PEIPING (China)
boing omrnuntaner :0 a  .
AMERICAN CONBUL, SHANGHAI (China).
86
Your 319) May 10, 1.00 p.m., third numbered paragraph
Neither the Searetarf
ate nor any other officer of
the Department has yet testified'before the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee br the House/Foreign Affairs Committee
894.24/659
hanes
on/ponding neutrality/legislation, nor has the seoretary
or'any other officer of the Department elsewhere expressed/
any offioial/opinion in/regard tosuch legislation
Numerous statements have been publicly made by/private/
persons/concerning the quantity of materials useful in war/
which are being exported/from the United States/to Japan,
but/there would/appear to be'no/authentic information
available/in regard to /the ratio of/such/American exports/
to/the total Japanese/consumption of such materials.
In
so far as arms, ammunition and/implements of war/are con-
cerned/ exports to Japan are rapidly awindling as a result
of/this Government's'polloy of disoouraging /the export/of/
F/A
aeronautical supplies to countries the armed foroes 6f
Enolphored by
Sonst by oparder
M.,
19.
D.G.R.-Na.D
1-1403
U. S. GOVERNBENT PRINTING OFPICE

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.89)
L
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRA
GONPIDENTIAL G
NONSONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
PARTAIR
Washington,
-2
which are engaged in/bombing oivilian populations from the
air? No/licenses for the export of arms, ammunition and
1mplements of war to Japan have been 1ssued/since Decem-
ber 12 1938. Numerous American manufacturers 6f/airoraft
and airoraft/armament /have/in recent months/ in /compliance
with the above-mentioned policy of,this Government, refused
to accept/very substantial/ordere/from Japan.
Repeated to Peiping/and/Shanghai!
Stice
(Run)
MAY 11 1939 PM
D
Co: CWY: EMU
mmd.
FE
PA/H
St
a
cwg
Enetphered by
Sont by oper ader
M..
19
D.C.R.Ma.
1-1403

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.93)
i.
TE
T
1938 DEC 15 PM 3 28
Lyons, New York
December 13, 1938
ONS
COMMUN
enemcer 22 1958.
AND RECUNDS
lo
Washington, D. C.
DEC 22 1938
QrH.mHP
Lear Sir:
Department of Stare
0.1./2h
894.20
Inasmuch as Japan is very clearly the a, gressor
nation in the present Sino-Japanese war, and
Inasmuch as Japan is guilty of unwarranted in-
terference with American comrercial ri ts in China,
894.24/56
and has thereby justified our government in placing
restrictions upon exports from America to Japan,
iow therefore, we, the members of the Lyons
(N.Y.) Civic Club, do hereby earnestly petition our
Government to stop the shipping of all weanons, cot-
ton, scran iron, and otner war materials to Japan;
said embargo to continue for the remainder of the
present Sino-Japanese conflict.
0
Respectfully submitted,
Lyons Civic Club
IBH/S
Corresponding Secretary
Resolution adopted December 13, 1938.
F/A
Y

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.93)
Decembor 22 1958.
y Gear Miss Witeheeek:
the reeeipt 1s neknewledged of your letter of
December 13, 193s, 1n regard to the e1tuation now
ebsaining in the Far East.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Jeint
Reselution of Gongress approved May 1, 1937, commenly
894.24/560
roferred so as the Noutrallty Aet. It will be obeerved
that Seetion 1(a) of this Joint Reselution prevides that
whemever the President shall find that there eziete a
state ef war between er among two or more foreigm states
he shall preelaim such feet. Should the President isewe
a preelamation finding that a state of war existe between
Chine and Japam, the export from this cowatry of arms,
ammumition, and implemente of war te beth Ohime and
Japan
Mase Isabelle Belts Niteheeck,
Gerrespending Seeretary, Lyene Givie Glub,
F/A
Lrems, New York.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.92)
-2
Japen would be immediately prohibited. Im the abeemee
of sueh a proclamation, there 1s no statutery authority
for preventing suoh exports.
In determining not to isrme a proelemation, the
President has exerelsed the discretion v sted in him by
the stntute. He could not fall t reeognize that the
primary purpose of th a stntute ls to keep this cowntry
ont of rar, and he, of onurse, felt oolired to take into
account all th- pertinent oonditiore and alroumstances.
Incldentally, I may strese the feot, in vi-w of what 1n
above st ted, that  proolamatlon would have plaoed an
embergo on the shipment of the metertal mentied not
only to Jmpan but to Chima.
The Noutrality Aot, moreover, doer not authorize
the Pr-sldent or the Seoretary of State under any oir-
oumstunoen to prrhibit the export or commoditie other
than aime, mmunitlon, un: implementa of war. The
artlclen anc materlula which are considered to be arme,
amanition, an: implements of var are enumerated in the
Presinent'e Proolamation of May 1, l937, whion 1s set
forth uncer Pmrt II of the enolosed cony of the pamphlet
intemlonl L attie in Ame.
You may b ite esd  know thet since July I,
l9?7, the Docartwent uf sirie han lsaued lloonees for
the export of arar, ammunitlo, and Implemente or war
to

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.89)
-
to Ch1mn 1n the valus of 314,307,902.30 and to Japem
1n the value of t10,895,865.38.
Sineerely yours,
Por the Acting Secretary of State:
Cherles . Yost, Aprlptant Chiof
Offiee of Ares and Munitlons Control
Enolosures:
1. Joint Resolution.
3. Pamphlet.
2
OR
DEC 26 1038.
CA: RVH:MHP1 98
FE
1011
12/21

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.81)
5 Cliver S.
Caham,M..
nec. 5,938
VEL
OF
Le cuparnto
ar4
PM 1 06
ack12/20
near Se
CC
ONS
ANDORDS
ive.l
894.24
a n
on ci , v
,
in n
a.
coustructire aloriy t 1oze ne.
Respt.
F/A
(Mrs. E.L.) cines M. uackeulrus
IAR EASTERN AFFAIMS
C二C221938
Depertment of State

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.92)
December 25 1958.
My Gear Mre. Quackembuch:
The reseipt is aeknewledged of your letter of
Becember 15, 19se, with pertieuler referenee to the
expert of serap 1rem to Japem.
In reply I have to inform you that under the pre-
894.24/561
vislons of the Heutrality hot of May 1, l937, e eopy of
whieh 1s cmelesed for your cemvemlemt referemee, the
President 1s gramted the sutherity te prekibit the
expert ef arme, ammumisiom, and implemente of war to
belligeremt states. Thie Ast speeifleally limite, how-
ever, the artielee whieh may be defined as ares, m-
munitiem and implements of war, end exeludee rev
materials eueh ae serap irem. There is mo statute new
in efreet which weuld autherise the Presidemt to prekibas
Mre. B. L. Queekenbush,
5 aiver street,
F/A
Chatham, New Joreey.

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.88)
empert of serep 1ren to Japan er amy ether forelge
country.
A eopy of the peaphlet Iatarmaslanal Irattle An Arm
se emelesed for your ccmvenient referense.
Sineerely yours,
Fer the Aeting Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Yest, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms end Mumitions Gontrel
Baelecures:
1. Jeimt Reselution.
2. Pamphlet.
DEC 82 1938;
A true copy of
Pnt
5
GA: RVE:MNP :SS
20100とい
new

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.99)
STROMOERG-CARLSON TELEPHONE MFG.CO.
ROCHESTER, N. Y.
December 16, 1938.
3DEC
Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
70 1938.
Washington, D.C.
Dear sir:
An article on Page 42 of the November 26,1938 issue of "Business
Week" reads
"American Planes for Japan
Japan continues to buy all major American air-
craft designs as soon as they are available for
894-20
sale. Very little is heard in Tokyo now of
difficulties in transferring royalties and
license fees, which at one time hamstrung
negotiations with United States aircraft manu-
facturers. The Japanese Navy-controlled Naka-
jima Aircraft Co. is reported to have acquired
the right to manufacture Curtiss-Wright's
cyclone' aero engine. Showa Aircraft has
894.2
bought a Douglas license for manufacture of C-3
type planes in Japan and Korea. Boeing has sent
one of its best engineers to Japan to assist in
the construction of military planes. Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries' aircraft plant has just been
4/
tooled up to produce Pratt & Whitney engines under
United Aircraft license".
5
Supplementary to this, the daily press and other publications have,
9
for some time past, contained comments regarding the sales of scrap
2
iron, planes and other war materials to Japan.
I have sounded out the prevailing sentiment on this issue among my
friends and acquaintances and, without exception, they are in favor
of (a) stopping immediately the shipment of war munitions of ALL
kinds to Japan and (b) ceasing to give other direct and indirect aid
and comfort to this aggressor nation.
I realize the difficulties which lie in the path of a satisfactory
working out of such a drastic move. However, am coniicent that the
effort would be well worthwhile because from all indications Japan
is our major potential enemy and to whatever extent we help to
build up its war machine we will be compelled to expand our own war-
like forces, only to a much greater degree.
Would it not, therefore, be to our best interests, both from a tax-
ation standpoint and from the angle of making a war with Japan at
some future time less possible, to take action now to prevent a con-
timmation of the exceedingly disastrous program indicated above.

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
It would seem that in view of existing governmental purchases and
possible substantial increases in orders the Government could bring
pressure on all manufacturers preventing the further sale of either
planes or patent or manufacturing rights to Japan or Japanese firms.
Let's not help to build up in Japan a war machine which can and
will be used as an instrument against the American people and
against those ideals which we are so earnestly striving for. This,
I know, is your personal sentiment and also the feeling of almost
our entire population, so any steps that can be taken will meet with
general public approval. If I can be of any assistance in any local
sphere of influence that I might have, do not hesitate to let me
know.
Respectfully yours,
edponouth
ECRoworth
MP
X

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.97)
eA
STROMBERG-CARLSON TELEPHONE MFG.CO.
ROCHESTER, N.Y.
December 16, 1938.
g
Honorable Franklin D. Roosevelt,
President of the United States,
Washington, D.C.
1938
Dear sir:
10/07/30
An article on Page 42 of the November 26,1938 issue of "Business
Week" reads
"American Planes for Japan
Japan continues to buy all major American air-
craft designs as soon as they are available for
sale. Very little is heard in Tokyo now of
difficulties in transferring royalties and
license fees, which at one time hamstrung
facturers. The Japanese Navy-controlled Naka-
jima Aircraft Co. is reported to have acquired
the right to manufacture Curtiss-iright's
   S
'cyclone' aero engine. Showa Aircraft has
bought a Douglas license for manufacture of C-3
type planes in Japan and Korea. Boeing has sent
one of its best engineers to Japan to assist in
the construction of military planes. Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries' aircraft plant has just been
tooled up to produce Pratt & Whitney engines under
United Aircraft license".
Supplementary to this, the daily press and other publications have,
for some time past, contained comments regaruing the sales of scrap
iron, planes and other war materials to Japan.
I have sounded out the prevailing sentiment on this issue among my
friends and acquaintances and, without exception, they are in favor
of (a) stopping immediately the shipment of war munitions of ALL
kinds to Japan and (b) ceasing to give other direct and indirect aid
and comfort to this aggressor nation.
I realize the difficulties which lie in the path of a satisfactory
working out of such a drastic move. However, am confident that the
effort would be well worthwhile because from all indications Japan
is our major potential enemy and to whatever extent we help to
build up its war machine we will be compelled to expand our own war-
like forces, only to a much greater degree.
Would it not, therefore, be to our best interests, both from a tax-
ation standpoint and from the angle of making a war with Japan at
some future time less possible, to take action now to prevent a con-
timuation of the exceedingly disastrous program indicated above.
It would seem that in view of existing governmental purchases and

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
and possible substantial increases in orders the Government
could bring pressure on all manufacturers preventing the fur-
ther sale of either planes or patent or manufacturing rights
to Japan or Japanese firms.
Let's not help to build up in Japan a war machine which can
and will be used as an instrwnent against the American people
and against those ideals which we are so earnestly striving
for. This, I know, is your personal sentiment and also the
feeling of almost our entire population, so any steps that
can be taken will meet with general pubiic approval. If I
can be of any assistance in any local sphere of influence that
I might have, do not hesitate to let me know.
Respectfully yours,
205onot
ECRoworth
MP

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
er 80 1938.
My dear Mr. Roworth:
The reeeipt is aeknowledged of your letter of Decem-
ber 16, 1938 1n regard to the situation now obtaining in
the Far East. By referenee from the White Mouse I also
aokmowledge the receipt of your letter of the same date
in regard to the same matter.
In this conneotion I invite your attention to
Seetion 1 (a) of the enolosed copy of the Joint Resolu-
894.24/562
tion of May 1, 1937, commonly referred to as the Neutrality
Aet, which provides that whenever the President shall find
that there exists a state of war between or among two or
more foreigm states he shall proclaim such fact. Should
the President issue such a proclamation finding that a
state of war exists between China and Japan the export
frem this country of arms, ammumition and implements of
war so both China and Japan would be immediately prohibited.
In the absence of such a proelamation there is mo statutory
authority
Mr. B. C. Rewerth,
Stromberg-Garlsen Telephone Mamufaeturing Gompany,
F/A
Roehosser, New York.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.97)
authority for preventing such exports.
In determining not to issue a proolamation the
President has exeroised the diseretion vested in him
by the statute. Inoidentally I may stress the fact
that a proelamation would have placed an embargo on the
shipment of the materials mentioned not only to Japam
but to Ohina.
The Neutrality Aot moreover does not authorize the
President or the Beeretary of State under any ciroum-
stances to prohibit the export of commodities other than
arms, ammunition and implements of war. The artioles and
materials which are considered to be arms, mmumition and
implements of war are enumerated in the President's
Proclamation of May 1, 1937 whioh 1s set forth under
Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet Intorne-
ttonel Traffie tn 4rms.
You doubtless will be interested to know that since
July 1, l937 the Department of State has issued licenses
for the export of arms, ammunition and implements of war
to China in the value of $14,367,902.30 and to Japan 1n
the value of $10,895,865.38. In this conneetiom I may
add, however, that in view of the fact that this Gavermment
has frequently expressed publioly its coademaatlen of the
bombang

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.95)
-L
bembing of eivilian populatione frem the air and has
made kmewn to American mamufacturers its disapproval
of the export of aeromautieal supplies to comntries
the armed foroes of which are engaged in sueh bombing.
the issuanee of lieenses for the export of aireraft and
aireraft supplies to countries the armed foroes of which
are engaged in smeh bombing at the present sime has
-virtually ceased.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Seoretary of State:
Joseph C. Green, Chief,
Office of Arms and Mumitions Control
Enclosures:
1. Joint Resolution
approved May 1, 1937.
2. International Traffic
in Arms pamphlet.
OR
91938
DQ 30 1938
Qe
A true copy of
the sired origte
CA:RVH:BM:SS
FE
12/27/38

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.97)
lo
omberg-Carlson Telephone Manufacturing Company
TELEPHONE APPARATUS
GENERAL OPPICE AND
PACTORY
CABLES AND SUPPLIES
RADIO APPARATUS
ROCHESTER. NEW YORK
January 18, 1939.
ir. Joseph C. Green, Chief,
Office of Arms and Munitions Control,
FW 894.24/56
Department of tate,
Washington, .C.
562
Reference CA 894.24 Howorth
My dear Mr. Green:
A somewhat extended absence from the office will explain the
delay in acknowledging your very helpful and interesti letter
of December 30th. Am indeed glad to learn both from your letter
and from the daily press of the splendid progress which has been
made in limiting the shipment of war munitions to Japan.
2
I hope in time our laws can be amended so as to give the Govern-
ment the right to prevent shipment of war munitions toaggressor
nations while at the same time permitting trade relations with
the non-aggressor nation. In this connection I also feel that
our country can save itself billions of uollars in its cefense
program by refusing to help build up the war machines of aggressor
nations. The possibility of making such a tremendous saving
would, I believe, be a good thought for some one to present to
the people but I do not seem to have seen reference to it any-
where.
With kindest regards and thanking you for your excellent letter
of December 30th,
Sincerely yours,
207 owoutth
ECRoworth
TO THE FIRM.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.96)
1.
1933
BOARD OF BISHOPS
cckL-12/30
THE METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH
KVH-HJN
IB0 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY
December 19, 1938
The President of the United States
or of
Washington, D. C.
AAAIRS
Lear Mr. Fresident:
As leaders in one of the representative bodies of
Christ in America may we be permitted respectfully to express
to you our deep concern for the tragIc sufferi! of the Chinese
people due to te ruthless invnrion by t!eir neighbor, Japan.
The bonting of defenselens conunities, the wnolesale
slaug ite. of human beings who have given no oftense, the
slayin of helples: wo en and children who have done no wrong,
894.
the murder of rultitudes without the slirhtest warrant of
justice -- such unspeakable atrocities, such indescribable
inhumanities, arouse in us as in all true Americans a feeling
of revulsion and  orror.
4/563
cur indignation and resentment, however, are tempered
with regret and hun ility by the knowledge that American citizens
are supplying the Japanese arns, munitions and war materinls
with which to subjugate and annililate the Chinese nation.
He are informed that eighty per cent of Japan's supply
of petroleum is obtained fron America, that the larger part of
her scrap iron and steel is likewise furnished by Americans,
that her cotton and copper come from the same source. From
government reports it appears that Americans are supplying
Japan witn 54 per cent of all ner war-time necessities, that
our exporters in twenty months s ipped 300,000,000 of war
materials to Japan. It is frequently stated with apparent
justification that witnout America's aid Japan would be power-
less to carry on her campaign of devastation and destruction.
We deeply regret, r. Iresident, that as yet no
effective measures ave been taken by our Government to prevent
the shipment of war materials to Japan. She has free access
to our markets. our resources are at her command. She can
purchase without limit so long as she has the money to pay
the price.
F/A

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Wiy, may we ask, should our nation spend billions to
arm itself against Japan and at the same time allow our citizens,
without let or hindrance, to arm Japan against China, America
and the world?
Frankly, in all good faith and with sincerest respect,
we suggest the time ins come to demand that those of our
citizens w..o ure participatin: in the rape of China cease
their inhumanity and hypocrisy.
1f we cannot prevent aggressor nations from warring
against their neighbors, can we not, and should we not, refuse
our aid to aggressors who invado t eir neighbors' domains?
: ost respectfully,
Bishoh H. Lester Smilh
Secretary, noard of Pishops,
Letnodist Episcopal Crurch
420 rlum street
Cincinrati, Onio

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.94)
January 6 1989
In roply refer to
00004.24
My dear Bishop:
By referenee from the White Nouse, I aeknowledge
the recelpt of your letter of December 19, l9s8 in regard
to the situation now obtaining in the Far East.
I appreciate your courtesy in transmitting the views
of the Board of Bishops of the Methodist Episeopal Church
coneerning this matter and you may be sure that they will
reseive the most careful consideration. I may add that
894.24/563
statements of opinion from thoughtful sourees are weleemed
at all times.
with regard to the export of war and other materials
to Japan, your attention is invited to Seetion 1 (a) of
the enolosed copy of the Joint Resolution of Songress
appreved May 1, 1937, which provides that whenever the
President shall find that there exists a state of war
between or among two or more foreign states he shall pre-
elaim such fact. Should the President issue a proelamatien
finding that a state of war exists between China and
Japan,
th.D.D.,..
11
420 plm strees,
Gimeimnati, Chio.

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Japan, the export from this country of arms, ammunition,
and implements of war to both China and Japan would be
1mmediately prohibited. In the absenoe of suoh a proo-
lamation, thare 1s no statutory authority for preventing
suoh exports.
In determining not to 1ssue a proolamation, the
President has exeroised the disoretion vested in him by
the statute. Inoidentally, I may stress the faot, in
view of what is above stated, that a proolamation would
have placed an embargo on the shipment of the material
mentioned not only to Japan but to China.
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize the
President or the Seoretary of State under any oiroumstanoes
to prohibit the export of commoditles other than arms,
ammunition, and 1mplements of war. The artioles and
materlals which are considered to be arms, ammunition, and
implements of war are enwmerated in the President's
Proolamation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s eet forth under
Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet International
Traffio 1n Arme. It will be noted that vetroleum, sorap
1ron, steel, cotton, copper and similar materials are not
included in this enumeration. There 1s no statute now in
existence whioh would authorize the Prenident or the
Seoretary of State to rohibit the export of materials
auoh

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
such as these to Japan or to any other foreign country.
You may be 1nterested to know that sinoe July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has 1ssued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to China in the
value of $14, 307,902.30 and to Japan 1n the value of
$10,895.865.38.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Aoting Seoretary of State:
WALTON MOURE
Counselor
Enclosures:
1. Joint Resolution.
2. Pamphlet.
CR
3
JO7P PH
true
5
19r+t
CA:RVH:HJN:SS
12/30/38
FE
cel

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.95)
LAGS, WA., CHAIRMAN
PREDERICK HALE, MAINE
GERALD P. NVE, N. DAK.
JOHN G. TOWNGEND, JR., DEL
H. STVLES BRIDGES, N. H.
lnited States Senate
HENRY CABOT LODGE, JR., MASS.
 MC CARRAN, NEV.
COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS
December
20,1938
BERT E. HITCHCOCK, . BAK.
KENNEDY F. REA, CLERK
AND
JOHN W. R. BMITH, ASST. CLERK
001 38 1958.
DEC11938
ak:12/21/01
Ciut
Joseph C. Creen, Chief
Office of Arms and Munitions Control: vision of
Department of State
IAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D. C.
10201938
Dear M'r. Green:
Levsrtment of State
894.24/564
I should like to have prepared for ne a statement
showirg monthly exports for the last eighteen months to
both China and Japan. I mean, of course, exports in-
volving materials of war including scrap iron and scrap
tin. I should like a division of these exports as be-
tween the two countries for like months. The report should
894.24
be brought down to the last possible date. I will greatly
appreciate your early favor in this connection.
I am going to have a further request in a few days
respecting exportations to Germany. In the neantime, I
should like to know whether your Department has accurate
knowledge concerning the amount of production by the
Bavarian Motor Works under the license solc then by the
Pratt and Whitney Company. I should like very much to
have information on this score.
Sincerelyours,
F/A

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.97)
Deeember 2ß 1958.
My dear Semator Nye:
I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
December 20, 1938, requesting that you be supplied with
information in regard to exports of materials of war to
Chine and Japan during the last eighteen months, and in
894.24/564
regard to aireraft engines manufactured by the Bavarian
Motors Works under license from the Pratt and whitney
Company.
Im reply to your first inquiry, I enelose coples of
four bulletins of the Department of Commeree giving data
1n regard to all exports to Japan, Chima, Hong Keng and
Kmantung during three periods following Jamuary 1, 1937.
I also enclose a table prepared in this office setting
forth statisties in regard to licenses issued for the
export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to Chime
and Japan between July 1, 1937 and November 30, 1938,
inelusive.
F
The Hemoreble
Gerald P. Nye,
United States Semate.

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.95)
iselusive. The deeline in the value ef experts matherised
to Japan in recent months refleets the smecess of the
Bepartment's polioy of disccureging the export of aere-
mautieal sspplies to countries the armed forees of which
are engaged in the bombing of eivilian pepulations frem
the air. Aetual exports to Japam of arms, ammumitiom, and
implements of war are still continuing to go formard under
lieenses issued and contreets conoluded prior to the
announoement of the Department's poliey in this respeet.
Suoh exports must soon, however, as a result of the sharp
curtailment of licenses applied for and lssued, dwindle to
a mall figure.
The Department has no information in regard to the
quantity of airoraft engines produced by the Bavarian
Motor Works under license fres the Pratt and Whitney
Company, mor has it the means of obtaining such informa-
tion. It may, however, be suggested that, 1n view of the
fast that the Pratt and Whitney engine in questiom is an
air ecoled radial and that most recemt German military
planes are powored with liquid cooled or diesel engimes,
the importance of the Pratt and hitney engine to the
Germas armed forees must be rapidly decliaing. For in-
staase, an artiele on the German air foree in the Ootober 13
mumber of the Britisk aviation mmgasime "flight" in deshrib
ing the ten types of mllitary aireraft mow mest favered 
at

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.92)
山
that air foree rovealed that enly twe es sese upee
were pewered with Bavarian Moter Werks radial engimes.
I hope that this iafermatien will, within its
mecescery limitatieme, preve to be what you desire. I
thall be glad to furnish you at aay tise with the infer
mation in regard to the exporte to Germery whieh yeu etate
you intend to request in a few days.
Sineerely yours,
Joseph C. Greem, Chief
Office of Arms and Manitions Contrel
Enclesures:
1. Four bulletins of the
Department of Commeree.
2. Tabulation.
A que copy of
us
DEC 23 1950
5
18/21
FE
news

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.95)
Inglueive:
CHINA
JAPAN
July (1937)
309,870.85
903,578.88
Angnet
516,712.90
296,435.07
September
2,815,887.00
438,737.52
Gsteber
1,543,455.00
85,378.09
Eevember
1,190.00
598,453.33
December
290,618.27
250,282.63
Jammary (1938)
2,081,263.50
493,458.00
February
1,918,613.83
1,201,277.70
March
179,769.31
893,983.06
Apr1l
1,914,899.50
1,889,024.00
May
359,538.15
1,334,608.00
June
1,236,090.54
1,710,049.00
July
164,698.13
1,125,492.65
August
122,448.13
179,249.00
September
706,135.00
78,720.00
October
1,949.00
85,138.45
November
904.833.19
$14,367,902.30
$10,793,865.38

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.94)
Centerville
Methodist Episcopal Church
A.6
UF
A1.
10z8  23 PM 1 42
December 20, 1938
AnH
Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of Stato
IONS
Washington, D. C. Al... vURDS
Honorable Sir:-
At a meeting of the Quarterly Conference of
the Centerville kethodist Episcopal Church in Nest Warwick, R. I.
held December 16,l938 the follcwing resolutions were unanimously
adopted:
Where as: we are informed that a large part of the materials
for making minitions of war used by Japan are sent from the
United States of America, and,
Where as: Japanese goods are flooding our markets because of
the low tarif rates, thus causing many idle wcrkers in this
country,
Therefore be it resolved: That we the members of the Quarterly
Conference of the Centerville eth dist Episcopal Church, of the
894.24/56
New England Southern Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
enter our protest against such measures and that we urge the
Secretary of State of the United States of America to use his
influence to put a stop to such practices.
Signed
Algumne S. Gaceup
844.24
Secretary of the iarterly Conferenc
5
ASTERN AFFAID
FILED

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.95)
91939
My dear Mr. Gallup:
The receipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of Deeem-.
ber 20, l9ss in whieh you set forth the sext of a reselu-
tion in regard to the expert of war materials to Japan
whieh was edepted unanimously by your Conference on
December 16, 1988.
894.24/5
Your courtesy in informing the Department of the
views of your Conference in regard to this matter 1s
greatly appreeiated and yeu may be sure that they will
565
reseive the mest careful consideration.
with regard to the expert of war materials to Japan
at the present time, your attentiem 1s invited te see-
tien 1 (a) of the Joint Resolution of May 1, 1937, eom-
monly referred to as the Neutrality Aet, a cepy of which
1s enelesed, whieh provides that whemever the President
shall
Mr. Algermen S. Gallup,
Bearetary of the Quarterly Conferenee,
Ceaterville Methedist Episeepal Church,
25 West Warwiek Avemne,
West Warwiek, Mmode Island.
F/A

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.93)
shall find that there exists a state of war between or
ameng two or more foreign states he shall preelaim such
faet. Should the President issue a preelematien finding
that a state of war exists between Chine and Japan, the
expert frem this coumtry of ares, ammunitien, and imple-
moats of war to beth China and Japan would be immediately
prehibited. In the absence of such a proelamation, there
is ne statutory authority for preventing sueh experts.
In determining not to issue a proelamation, the
President has exereised the discretion vested in him by
the statute. Inoidentally, you will of course realise,
in view of what is above stated, that a preelamation
would have placed an embargo on the shipment of the
material mentioned not only to Japan but to China.
The Neutrality Aot, moreever, does not axthorise the
President or the Becretary of State under any aireum-
stances to prohibit the expert of commodities other than
arms, ammunition, and implememts of war. The artieles
and materials which are considered to be arms, ammunition,
and implememts of war are enumerated in the President's
Preelamation of May 1, 1987, which 1s set forth under
Part II of the emelesed cepy of the pamphlet Interzstional
ra2Am.
Yom may be iaterested to kmew that sinee July 1,
1939, the Bepartment ef state has issued l1esnses for
8o

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.92)
-2
the expert of arns, ammumitien, and implements of war to
Gaima in the valme of $14,370,382.30 and te Japan 1n the
value of $10,89s,806.20.
Sincerely yours,
For the Asting Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Yest
Assistant Chief, Division of Contrels
Enclesures:
1. Cepy of Joint Resolution,
May 1, 1937.
2.
Pamphiet - International
Traffic in Arms.
CR
JAN 9 1939
JAN 9 1939 PM
e
A true y 
the signd
5
and
nal.
CO: RVE: EF: SS L6

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.98)
DAVID SNEDDEN
460 Amheret Street
akk1-3/7/39
PALO ALTO, CALIFORNIA
3 45
K
December 21, 1938
The Hon, Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:-
At a largely attended meeting of The Waverley Club of Palo
Alto, California, the following Resolutions and Petition were unani-
mously adopted. The undersigned, as President of the Club, was then
authorized to transmit a copy of these Resolutions and Petition to
yourself among others in the expectation that you could influence
action of the kind desired.
294.24
In passing, I should call your attention to the fact that
894.24/566
the Waverley Club is composed of nearly a hundred of the older and
more distinguished citizens of this community, representing all
denominations.
WAVERLEY CLUB OF PALO ALTO ON DEC. 19, 1938
WHEREAS, the people of the United States desire peace and deplore
international lawlessness and aggression, and
WHERBAS, the Japanese invasion of China, fomented by the military
party of Japan, has led the United States of America and many other
nations to indict Japan as a violator of the Nine-Power Treaty and
the Kellogg pact, and to protest repeatedly against the merciless
bombing of undefended Chinese cities, the unnecessary slaughter of
Chinese civilians, and the destruction and imperilment of schools,
churches, nospitals, and business enterprises in which their nationals
are engaged, and
WHEREAS, we feel put to shame that American raw materials are being
used to manufacture weapons of war in Japan, that American planes
are being used to carry bombs from America for the destruction of
Chinese civilian populations, that shells from America are loading
Japanese guns, and that America is supplying to Japan huge quan-
tities of scrap iron, oil, trucks, and other materials used in the
furtherance of the war, over and above the amount of our normal
trade of recent years, and

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.98)
WHIREAs, we sympathize with the Chinese people in their desire to
build up an independent, democratic state, an end gravely threatened
by the present aggression of Japan, and deplore the traffic which
makes it possible for certain American interests to profit from
the wanton destruction of the innocent victims of Japanese aggres-
sion,
THEREFORE, we the undersigned respectfully petition the President of
the United States and Congress, in accordance with the principle
of the Good Neighbor and in the interests of the people of the
United States, China and Japan, to take every practicable means,
direct or indirect, to bring to an end a traffic from our country
which is compelling us to be a partner inthe destruction of the
Chinese people.
Javid Snedden
President of the Waverley Club

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.96)
JAN 9 1989
My dear Mr. Seedden:
The reeeipt is aeknowledged of yeur letter of Deeem-
ber 21, lo2s in whieh you set forth the text of a resolu-
tiem whieh was adepted umanimeusly by your club in regard
to the expert of war and other materials to Japan.
Your courtesy in informing the Department of the
views of your club concerning this matter is greatly
appreeiated and you may be sure that they will receive
894.24/566
the mest careful consideratien.
with regard to the export of war and other materials
te Japam at the present time, your attention is invited
te Seetion 1 (a) of the Joint Resolution of May 1, 1959,
commonly referred to as the Neutrality Aot, a copy of
whieh is melosed, whieh provides that whemever the
President shall find that there exists a state of war
between
Mr. David Smedden,
Presidemt of The Waverley Club,
400 Amberst street,
Pale Alte, Califermia.
1
A

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.95)
between er ameng twe er mere foreign states he shall pre-
elaim such faet. Smeuld the President 1ssue a preelame-
tion finding that a state of war exists between China and
Japan, the expert frem this eowatry of arme, amumitien,
and implemeats of war te both Chine and Japan would be
immediately prehibited. In the absenee of such a preele-
matien, there is no statutory authority for preventing
such experts.
In determining not to issue a proolamation, the
President has exereised the disoretion vested in him by
the statute. Inoidentally, you will of course realise,
1n vlew of what is above stated, that a proolamation
would have plaoed an embargo on the shipment of the
material mentiomed not only to Japan but to China.
The Neutrality Aet, moreever, does net authorise
the President er the Secretary of state weder any oir-
eumstanees to prehibit the export of eemmedities other
than arms, ammunition, and implements of war. The
artieles and materials which are considered to be arms,
ammumities, and implements of war are eaumerated in the
Presidemt's Preelamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set
ferth ueder Part II of the enelesed cepy of the pamphlet
Interaattonel Ireffls a Arne.
You may be interested to knew that sinee July 1,
1937, the Department of state has issued lieenses fer

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.90)
-L
the empert of arne, ammunities, and implemente of war to
Ghine in the valme of $14, 870, 352.80 and to Japan 1n the
valme of $10,895,80s.80.
In view ef the faet, hewever, that this Gevermment
has frequently expressed publiely its condemmatien ef
the bembing of eivillan populations frem the air and has
made knewn to Ameriean manufacturers its disappreval of
the expert of serenautical supplies te ceuntries, the
armed foroes of whieh are engaged in such bembing, the
1ssuamee of licenses for the expert of aireraft and air-
eraft supplies to countries the armed forees of whick
are engaged in sueh bembing at the present time has now
virtually ceased.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Aoting Secretary of State:
Gharles w. Yost
Assistant Chief, Divisiom of Contrels
OR
JAN 9 1939
JAN 9 1939 PM
Enclesures:
1. Moutrality Aet.
Q
2. Pamphlet.
spo
so n
9
Ant
GO:RVN:F:SS 1-6
FE
eaw

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.93)
ST. JOHN'S CATHEDRAL
CATHEDRALSQUARE
gaint
81939
DENVER,COLORAD
JAN
December 22, 1938
OPFICE: 1313 CLARKSON ST.
dck 1/59
38 DEC3 56
Rnt
The Hon. Cordell Hull
Washington, D.C.
My dear Mr. Hull:
Can not something be done to stop the
hipment to Japan of materials essential to war? The
894.24/567
slaughter of helpless women and dnnocent children
appals thinking men and women when they realize that it is
the lust of money in Amercian men that keeps up this
Yours truly
Mang aret m. W ard.
Secretary Peligious Education
IAR EASTEAN AFFAIRS
JA
Department ot Stase
F/A
+
THE VERY REVEREND PAUL ROBERTS, D.D., DEAN
THR REVEREND HARRY WATTS
CANON

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.93)
JAN 9 1930
My dear Mies Ward:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of Decem-
ber 22, 19se in whieh you inquire what can be done to
step the shipment to Japan of materials essential te war.
with regard to the expert of war materlals to Japan
at the present time, your attention is invited to See-
tien 1 (a) of the Joint Resolution of May 1, 1937, com-
894.24/567
memly referred to as the Noutrality Aet, a cepy of which
is enelesed, whieh prevides that whenever the President
shall find that there exists a state of war between er
among two or more foreiga states he shall preelaim sweh
faet. Sheuld the Presideat isswe a preelamation finding
that a state of war exists between China and Japan, the
expert from this country of arms, ammumition, and imple-
memte of war te beth Chine and Japan would be immediately
prehibited. In the absence of such a preelamation, there
20
Mise Margaret M. Ward,
F/A
Secretary, Religious Edueation,
113 alarksen ssreet,
Denver, Celeraãe.

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
is me statutery autherity for preventing such experts.
In determining not to issue a preelamatien, the
President has exereised the disoretion vested in him
 the statute. Imeidentally, you will of course
realise, in view of what is abeve stated, that a pree-
lamation weuld have placed an embarge on the shipment
of the material memtiened not only to Japan but to
cnina.
The Noutrality Ant, mereover, does not authorise
the President or the Seeretary of State under any oir-
owmetannes to prohibit the expert of commedities other
than arms, ammumition, and implements of war. The
artioles and materiale which are considered to be
arms, ammunition, and implements of war are enumerated
1n the President's Preelamation of May 1, 1937, which
1s set forth under Part II of the enclosed oopy of
the pamphlet International Traffic in Arme.
You may be interested to know that sinoe July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued lioenses for
the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war
to Chima 1n the value of $14, 370, 352.30 and to Japan
1n the valme of $10,896,865.30.
4o

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.90)
-3
As you are doubtless aware, several balls heve beem
intredueed at the present session of Congress for the
purpese of revising the noutrality laws.
sincerely yours,
For the Acting Seeretary of state:
Charles W. Yest
Assistant Chief, Division of Centrels
Enclesures:
1. Cepy of Joint Resolution,
May 1, 1937.
2.
Pamphiet - International
Traffio in Arms.
19PM
A true copy of
the sigiad origt
nal.
5
C0: RVH:MF: SS 1-6
E
ReAD
C

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
December 29, 1938.
PA/H
D
Hornbeck:
Please be kind enough to draft
appropriate replies for my signa-
ture in response to the two letters
attached herewith.
U:SW:MW
211938

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.93)
PH
C. L. Wells & Company
Telephone Michigan 9651
UEIVED
794 SOUTH SPRINO 81.
INVESTMENT SEGURMIES
TA
Los Angeles, Calif.
33
A  44
December ?4, 1938
URDS
KOYISEA
Honorable Sumner Welles,
4.083.
1938
Fil
Acting Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
我
My dear Mr. Secrctary:
As one of the fnily that still retain the extra "e" in our name,
I want to commend you for your vigorous stand in r lation to the German
atrocities, and sincerely hope it will be the means of curbing their present
attitude.
894.24/568
I wish it were possible for our government to speak more boldly
than it has in relation to the China-Japan situation. Surcly, the crimes
of the Germans are incomparable to those of the Japanese. Pages 54 and 55
of the November 22nd, 1938 issue of "Look" portray cruelties that are
unwarranted and are mild as to wha missionaries tell of rape, murder, etc.,
constantly perpetrated by the Japanese, and yet, as far as I have seen,
our government has not taken the decisive stand I feel it s ould.
I have a son and family who have recently gone to Peking under
8
the auspices of the Presbyterian Church, as medical missionaries and I  ave
been there for a short time also, so have a grcater int rest than normal in
China.
Is there not some way that our nation can effectually block the
sending of oil, gasoline and scrap iron to Japan and thus end being a party
to this murderous nation? Surely from a humane issue, we have greater
grounds for speaking and acting than we ave in Germany, and I am not a
German, or in any manner sympathetic with the Nazi movement.
If they should successfully hold the territory teken, one has to
look at the burden and oppression in Chosen and Manchoukuo, and see what
it will mean to hina. Can we as a nation stand idly by any longer?
Again commending you for your stand - keep it up - but do some-
thing more for tortured China.
Yours sincerely,
894.24
P. 2kiles
F/ A
J.P. Welles.
JPW:M

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.92)
December 29 1958.
My dear Mr. welles:
I appreciate your sivins me in your letter
of December 24 your views with regard to various
features and problems of our fereign relatiess.
In regard to the subjeot whieh you raise ef
a pessible prevention of exportation of certain
commedities, I have no doubt but that you realise
894.24/568
that the exeeutive branch of the Government is with-
out authority to impose prohibition upon expertation
of the eommodities whieh you mention. The eourses
purssed and the action taken by this Department are
responsive to public opinien and within the frame-
work of legislative eneetment.
I thank you for your commendation of the stand
whieh we have taken in one field of our fereign rela-
siems.
sincerely yours,
Sumner welles
DEO29 1938.
Leting Secretary
F
. J. P. Welles,
706 South Spring Street,
Angeles, Callrerate.
PA/H: SKH1 ZMK
10-0018

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.93)
lnitedStates Senate
Aclo 1-18-34.
Evirfernes
1939 JAN 16 AM 9 52
Jamunry 13, 1939
COMML
Reapogtfpliyiforerred to
674.24
894.24/569
Hon. Cordell Hull. Secretary. Departnent of State.
with thanks for such favorable consideration as
the communication herewith submitted warrants,
and for a report thereon, to accompany return
of inclosure.
By direction of
8670
U. S. S.
F/FG
 Stato
m

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
.G.GOSSETT
J.V.ROADS
J.E.JOSEPH
HOME OIL & GAS COMPANY
Waukom1s, Okla. Jan. 91939
Hon. Josh Lee -
Are we (the U.s.) selling or allowing to be sold to
the Japanese people Junk iron or metals which they use
for manufacturing war material?
Have we refused to sell to China material of this
kind?
This question has been discussed here and I am
anxious to find how much of the olaims of those who affirm
that it 1s true are backed up by the facts.
Yours truly
J. E. JOSEPH

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.96)
Jaduary
19 1989
 dear senator Lee:
894.24/569
The receipt 1s acknowledged of your communieation of
Jammary 13, 1939, tranemitting a letter dated January 9,
1930, from Mr. J. E. Joseph of Waukomis, Oklahoma, in
which he inquires whether this Government permits the ship-
ment te Japan and China of Junk iron or metals which are
used fer manufacturing war materials.
In reply, I have to inform you that under the provi-
sions of the Noutrality Aot of May 1, 1937, a copy of which
1s enelosed for your convenient referenee, the President
1s granted the authority to prohibit the export of arms,
ammunition and implements of war to belligerent states.
This Aet speeifieally limits, however, the artieles which
may be defi md as arms, mmanition and implements of war,
F/A
and exeludes smch produets as junk iron or metals. There
is no statute now in effeet whieh wuld authorise the
President
The Menerable
Joh Lee,
Umited states senate.

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.89)
presléent to prohibit the export of sush materials to Japan,
Chine, or any other foreign eountry, with the exeeption of
the law pertaiming to the export of tin-plate serap to
all eountrles, whieh may be found under Part vIII of the
enclosed pamphlet, Internatienel rratfle in Arma.
Mr. Joseph's letter 1s returned herewith.
sineerely yours,
00012
Enclosures:
Noutrality Aot.
Pamphlet.
From Mr. Joseph.
oopy
the olgned ori
nal.
CR F
JAN 19.19391
fnoutins
Rur
:1
reu
0

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.93)
ON POLITICN
RELATIONS
ANO
ADVISER
MR. HURNBECK
1938
MEMORANDUM
21938
PAN
vis:on orDocember 201938
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MH WELLES
MR. HURNBECK
MCEC201938
CA - Mr. araem
UEC 271938
罗E：
Department of State
DE PARTMENT OF STATE
女
AS
The attached copy of a resolution adopted by the
Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America at
PATH
SARE
a reoent meeting in Buffalo on December 9 was handed to
me by Mr. Barnes, Secretary of the Council. Mr. Barnes
Telant Secretan
DEC 271938
said that the procedure outlined in this resolution of
894.24/570
exerting moral pressure on commercial enterprises export-
ing war supplies of all kinds to Japan was a compromise
adopted after a proposal that all such exports be embargoed
by law had been turned down. Mr. Barnes added that it was
the intention of the Counoil to address letters to all of
the principal producers of the commodities, such as oil,
trucks, machine tools, copper, etc., which are being
exported to Japan in large quantities and which may be
considered to be essential war materials.
Charles W. Yost
R/A
5
CA:CWY:VIC

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.99)
AOTION OF THE FEDERAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN AERICA, BUFFALO N. Y.
DECMBER 9, 1938
The Foderal Council of tho Churohes of Christ in Amorica protosts against the
aggression of the armed forces of Japan in China, and especially against the
frequent and widespread outrages against the civilian population.
But while we deplore the conflict we are humiliated by the knovledge that
some church agencies and institutions as vell as many individual members are
implicated through investments in firms which traffic in war supplies.
The Council commends those involved in the aircraft industry who have declined.
during recent months to enter into new contracts for sales to Japan. The voluntary
discontimuance of sales of essential war materials such as oil, motor trucks and
sorap iron is a necessary further step. It therefore urges those carrying on such
trade to demonstrate their loyalty to moral principle by sacrificing the profits
thus derived.
The Council appeals also to the churches and their agencies and institutions
which have funds invested in commercial enterprises doaling in war materials to
make inquiry concerning their export trade. If the ascertained facts justify, we
then urge them to exert appropriate influence through stockholders' and bondholders'
protests or otherwise, thus endeavoring to effect such changes of policy as are
indicated to be imperative to achieve the above-mentioned objectives.
The Council recommends similar action by individuals who derive profit from
such trade through personal service or investment.
The Council would also express its deep concern for the welfare of the people
of both China and Japan and earnestly warn against belligerent feelings toward
either people. Rather let us be constantly in prayer for the people of those two
nations especially that the counsels of justice and goodwill may prevail and a
stable peace be established.
We hereby instruct the Department of International Justice and Goodwill as
follows:
(1) To communicate the Council's commendation to thoso involved
in the aircraft industry who havo declined during recent
months to entor into now contracts for salos to Japan.
(2) To uso every opportunity to mako contacts with those who
aro in positions of authority and influonco to tho end
that the above recommendations may be carried out.
(3) To copmunicate this action to the Secretary of State with
the request that he use his influence to persuade those
concerned who are now selling war supplies to Japan to
discontinue voluntarily such practice.

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.96)
Omaha and Douglas County Council of Churches
315 Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
TELEPHONE ATLANTIC 1600
MR. W. F. COZAD
President
8DEC207
Omaha, Nebr.
MRS. A.W. C
Executive Secretáry
(ck. 1/7/39
RVH DOW
December 21, 1938
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
DR. A. L. COLE
Ist Vice-President
Honorable Coruell Hul.
DR. CHARLES DURDEN
United States Japitol lug.
2nd Vice-President
DR. A. A. BROOKS
Jashington, D. C.
January
3rd Vice-President
MR. R. D. MILLER
Treasurer
 dear Secretary of tate:
CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES
The C ha Jounci1 of hurches, in regular session on
REV. C. W. REYNOLDS
Deceaber l9th, lyt8 took note of tne tpanese invasiun of Jhina
Religious Education
anu the purt tht we the leople of the hited tates tre ha ving
REV. W. H. SCHEUERMANN
Survey and Comity
in it.
REV. R. W. COOPER
Publicity
REV. A. K. STEWART
Jit ies are being razeu to th : rounu, celreges and schools
054.24/ 571
Evangelism
are being destroyed, an esti.y teu thirty milrion people h ve been
DR. E. M. KENDALL
Public Institutions
driven fron their homes, hndreus of thous: nds ix ve teen slaughtered,
REV. R. E. CARLYON
countless thoustnds lu ve been killed or crippleu by our on shrapnel
Race Relations
DR. THOMAS R. NIVEN
and bullets, and a ne m is being  ue in hin by the tyanese wer
Unification of
Protestant Programs
lorus.
DR. W. H. PHELPS
Radio
In the op inien of ex erts, the war in hin coulu not o
foraru thirty uys without wr suilliis frol the Jnited States.
MEMBERS AT LARGE
Tupan would be helpless to cont inue her onslaught without our aid.
REV. W. N. PALMQUIST
e feel that we are helping write into the nistory or our nation
DR. W. H. TRAUB
one of the bl: ckest, blocuiest chaptors of tl. ti...e.
REV. ERNEST SECKER
REV. J. S. WILLIAMS
DR. E. A. ROWSEY
Therefore te it resolveu, that we, the hu Jouncil of
DR. J. M. PHILLIPS
nurehes, representing over ,C .h rotestan people, of-
MR. WAYNE SAWTELL
far vigorous protest to the rusiuent of the nited tates, sec-
retary of State, entors frc  Heuraska nd our Jongressman from
EX-OFFICIO
 ha :nu urge then to take such action as wiil 1rohitit the shipmen
MR. J. TRUITT MAXWELL
of wr sup lius to apan, tnu tix t copi's of this resclution be sent
Y. M. C. A.
MISS MARGARET WHITE
to the Iress ind to the Governor of our state.
Y. W. C. A.
alloal
REV. PAUL ERICKSON
Ministerial Union
DR. L. C. DENISE
Presbyterian Seminary
REV. WILLIAM PARK
. F. oz, ent
Baptist
894.24
ALboee
DR. J. W. PRESSLY
Presbyterian
MISS ALICE McCURRY
MRS. T. R. HUSTON
Council of Federated
City Mission
FAR EASTERN AFF AInS
Division 
.. Jole, Vice-resiuent
F/A
Church Women
MRS. C. G. BREWSTER
JAN10 1939
Social Service
Vopariiment  .

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.95)
111909
January
My dear Mr. Gosad:
The reeeipt is mekmowledged of your letter of De-
cember 21, 1938 in regard to a resolution which was
adopted by your Couno1l on December 19 urging that action
be taken to prohibit the shipment of war suppllies to
Japan.
Your courtesy in informing the Department of the
894.24/571
views of your Counell in regard to this matter is greatly
appreciated and you may be sure that they will receive
the most careful consideration.
with regard to the export of war supplies to Japan
at the present time your attention is invited to
Seetion 1 (a) of the Joint Resolution of May 1, 1937,
cemmomly referred to as the Beutrality Act, a copy of
whieh is enelosed, which provides that whenever the
President shall find that there exists a state of war
between or among two or more foreign states he shall
proelaim
Mr. W. F. Cosad, Presideat,
Omaha and bonglas County
Coumeil of Churehes,
31S Y.M.C.A. Bailding,
Omaka, Bebraska.

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.95)
tien finding that a state of war exists betweem Ghima and
Japan, the export from this country of arms, ammumitien,
and implemente of war to both Chine and Japan would be
immediately prehibited. In the abeemee of such a prvelame-
tion, there is mo statutory authority for preventing such
exporto.
In determining mot to issue a proolamation, the
President has exereised the diseretion vested in him by
the statute. Ineidentally, you will, of course, rozlise,
1n view of what is above stated, that a proolamatiom would
have plased an mbargo on the shipment of the material
mentioned not oaly to Japan but to Ohina.
The Meutrality Aet, moreover, does mot authorise
the Presideat or the Seeretary of state under any eir.
cumstamees to prohibit the export of commodities other
tham arms, ammumition, and implements of war. The
artieles and materials which are considered to be arms,
ammumition, and implements of war are enumerated in the
President's Procolamation of May 1, 1937, whieh 1s set
forth under Part II of the enclosed copy of the pamphlet
Iaternatienal Iraffla An Arme.
You may be interested to kmow that sinee July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued lisenses for
the export of arss, ammuaition, and implements of war
8

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.93)
to Chima 1n the value of $14, 370, 382.30 and to Japan 1n
the value of $10,89s,065.30.
sineorely yours,
Fer the Beeretary of state:
Charles W. Yost
Assistant Chief, Division of Comtrols
Enclesures:
1. Copy of Joint Resolution,
May 1, 1937.
2. Pamphiet - International
Traffie in Arms.
CR
JAN 10 1939 PM
FE
reeus
Gd: RVH: DBW: B 1Y/9

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.96)
2A
GREENVILLE COLLEGE
RECE
ENT OF STATE
"CHRISTIAN C
EDUCATION
Regiseras
HARRY V. BREWER A.B., B.B.A., LL.B.
GREENVILLE, ILLINOIS
banuary
December
DIVISION OF
e
COMMUNICATIONS
1109
JAN/839
HOnANG RESORDSHull
Secretary of State
Art
Washington, D. C.
STA
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.24
194.24/519
Thank you for your letter of December 6, 1938,
(File no. CA 894.24 Sohlosser, John H.) enclosing a copy of
the Joint Resolution of Congress of Mayl, 1937 and acknowledging
receipt of the resolution adopted by the Student Association
894.24/572
of Greenville College on November 4, 1938.
We regret very deeply if our resolution and letter
suggested that we were disappointed that the President has not
yet seen fit to invoke the Neutrality Act by finding that a state
of war exists in the Orient. We were well aware that this legis-
lation does not apply to the export of many of the materials of
war listed in our resolution. It is obvious that a country such
as Japan with a well-developed heavy industry would depend upon
the United States not so much for finished products as for the
basic raw materials of war. Thus our present legislation, although
intended to maintain for the United States an equally aloof atti-
tude toward all belligerent states, actually would discriminate
in favor of the aggressor -- the nation, equipped with maritime
fleet and heavy industry, which can supply itself with the neces-
sities of war without fear of interruption by the Neutrality Act.
Hence, we believe that the President has aoted wisely
in refraining from finding that a state of war exists. In this
he has been supported by the weight of serious public opinion
throughout America. There is, however, a grave inconsistency
when, in such a hideous conflict -- practical if not technical war
the President cannot feel justified in applying legislation de-
signed for such situations. We feel that the inconsistency lies
in our faulty legislation, not in the action of the President.
Whether or not it would require the enactment of new
legislation or at least the amendment of the Neutrality Act before
the President is empowered to name the aggressor and apply discrim-
inatory embargoes, we are willing to leave to the judgment of
legal experts. To this end various members of both Houses of
Congress have already been informed of our position. We realize
that as private citizens we can scarcely expect to understand all
the intricacies of international law nor every factor involved in
such a complicated situation. It is for this very reason that we
have stated our petition with considerable latitude: "... that we

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.97)
GREENVILLE COLLEGE
LONG, Pb.D
"CHRISTIAN C
EDUCATION
GREYDON M. WORBOIS, A. M
President
Registrar
A. E. HARPORD. A. B.
HARRY V. BREWER, A.B., B.B.A., LL.B.
Assiseent to the President
GREENVILLE, ILLINOIS
Bussar
call upon the government of the United States to take all
necessary measures to halt or limit to peace-time proportions
the export to Japan of the materials of war, etc." Doubtless
this important problem will receive due consideration when
Congress convenes in January.
Perhaps it would not be out of place for us to add
that we view with considezable satisfaction the evidence within
recent weeks of some stiffening of the foreign policy of the
United States toward those nations which would disregard legal
and humanitarian obligations. We would also commend the exten-
sion of certain monetary credits to China as a friendly nation.
We trust that this elaboration has served to clarify
our position as expressed in the resolution forwarded to you,
and we hope for an early cessation of our material support of
an act of aggression which we morally condemn.
Very respectfully yours,
phnH. Soklasser
John H. Schlosser
President of the Student Association of
Greenville College, Greenville, Ill.
