894.50 Japan, Economic Matters., June 22, 1944 - December 29, 1944 (File 1482)
ID: 894.50-1482   Pages: 168   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.50-japan-economic-matters-14
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE
BCONOMIC-DEFENSE-BOARD
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SIAIE
APR 24 1943
REOBIVED
DIVSION OF
Special Assistant to
SPEGIAL A
MR. FINLETTER
894.50/6-2244
the Secretary
APR 2 7 1943
Department of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington, D. C.
Dear Tom:
You may be interested in the enclosed
summaries of Japan's supply position in
mercury, molybdenum, cobalt and vanadium.
I am also enclosing "Survey of Japan-
ese Aluminum Developments Since October,
1942."
Sincerely,
Jahn trunchen
John Fischer
Chief of Office
Office of Economic
Warfare Analysis
Enclosures
JUN 271944
FILED

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
BOARD OF BOONOMIC WARFARE
Enemy Branch
COBALT
March 20, 1943
(metric tons recoverable Co.)
COBALT
MOTE: The figures given below are subject to revision, as Japan's position
GONINTIAL
changes and as new dats are received. For the latest information, call the
Office of the Chief of the Asiatic Axis Section, Extension 2471.
SUMMARY OF JAPAN'S SUPPLY POSITION
General eppraisal:
Japan will be more than able to meet minimum requirements for cobalt
from ourrent production provided control of the Bawdwin Mine is retained. If
Japan can achieve maximm production at the Bawdwin Mine, the uses of cobalt
could be expanded considerably and a stockpile could be accumulated.
 Total Available to Japanese Nar Boonomy
1. Stocks on hand, 1/1/43.
Negligible
2. New Supplies, 1943.
116-266
3. Cross Suppliss, 1943.
(1 plm 2)
116-266
4..
Requirements, 1943
100 +
5. Stocks on hand, 1/1/44
(3 minus 4)
16-166
SOURCES OF NEM SUPPLIES, 1943
(Item 2, above)
Region, Classified
New Supplies Available to Japanese War Eocnomy
with Regard to Ship-
ping Distances and
Total
Percent
Peroent
Administrative Org-
(in metric tons)
Total
Total
anization
: Requiremente
New Supplies
Group I, total
13
13.0
4.9 g/
Japan Proper.
13
13.0
4.9
Karafuto.
Group II, total.
3
3.0
1.1
Korea
3
3.0
1.1
Formosa
Manchuria
:Some potentially
Occupled China.
Group III, total.
100-250g/
250.0
94.0
Mandated Islands
Philippine Islands
Netherlands Indies,
Borneo, eto.
Indochina
Thailand.
Burma
100-250
250.0
94.0
Total
116-266g
266.0
100.0
Other Far Eastern Sources:
None knowm
See beck of this sheet for explanatory notes.
OOBALT
32-1817

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.94)
COMBURMPTION PATTEN I  MITED STATES
In the absence of specirio inforiation on consumption in Japan, this in-
Uee
1941
1912
Remmetallie wes (Ceramics, drier for paints and inks
olive pigments, catalyst for synthetic petroleum)
50
3 
Netallie uses
50
Kigh spoed steals
13
2
Oarbides
2
Kagnets
12
10
Alloys non-ferrons
21
10
Welding rods
10
Other
Bubstitutes:
Cobalt is considered indispensable in this country for the following
uses in crder of their importance: (1) searchlight reflectors, (2) sirplane
superchargers, (3) magnet steel, and (4) decolorising glass. For all other
sesential mes there are ressonebly sdeomate smbatitutes.
EXPLANATORY MOTES
Definitien of reguirmentai (See also footnote b/)
(1) In relation to raw materials used primarily in the mamufacture of pro=
guction and mar goods:
Unless otherwise specified, "requirements" means the amount needed
to keep the industrial plant operating at capacity, assuming no substitutions.
In relation to Japan Proper, the total industrial capacity as allocsted under
plans for the war economy, is included. In relation to occupied areas, only that
part of the industrial plant which is operating as a part of the Japanese war
effort is inoluded.
(2) In relation to raw materials sed primarily to satisfy gonsmer needs:
Unless otherwise specified, "requirements" means the smount needed
to keep the population of Japan, the Japanese arsy and navy, and that part of
the population of the occupied areas whose labor or whose good will is necessary
to the Japanese war eoonosy, clothed, fed, and housed at at least a minimm
subsistence level.
Ceneral gualifications
The quantitative estimates of supplies are mede, unless otherwise speci-
fied, without regard to possible shipping or manpower bottlenecks.
As a general rule, the estimates tend to be high rather than low, on the
assumption that in dealing with the enemy's position, the high estimate is the
conservative one.
Conversion factore:
Cobalt cxide containe between 70 and 75 peroent Co. Cobalt mined at
the Bawdwin mine is secured from nickel speiss containing the following metals:
Mi (30 peroent), Cu (8 percent), Co (7 peroent), and 17 ounoes of s1lver to the
ton. Under some processes, recovery losses amount to between 5 and 10 percent.
Logtpotess
During pre-war years Japan imported some finished machine tools and tool
steels containing cobalt. Japan's only stocks of cobalt would be in this
form.
This is probably a minimm figure, which will allow very little cobalt for
non-metallurgical uses. As suggested above (see "substitutes"), however,
requirements are highly flexible, depending on metallurgical practice and
the svailability of the metal. Prior to the war, apparent consumption of
oobalt in Japan was oonsiderably under l00 tons. If the maximm amount can
be obtained from the Bawiwin mine, Japan's consumption may more than double,
depending on how much is withheld for stockpiling purposes.
出
All ccmputations are based on a total including the high figure for Burme.
Pre-mar production of cobalt in nickel speiss at the Bawdwin Mine averaged
olose to 300 metrio tons of contained Co. Under favorable conditions, Japan
may be able to recover as much as 250 tons in 1943. Japan will almost
certainly be able to obtain at least 100 metrio tons.
Not shown ssperately.
32-1817

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
BOARD OF RCDMOMIC WARFABE
Enemy Branck
roh 17, 1943
(metric tons Eg)
MERCURY
MOTE: The figures given below are subject to revision, as Japan's position
changes and as new data are received. For the latest information, call the
grrige of the Chief of the Asiatlo Axls Bggtion. Frtension 247
SUMARY OF JAPAN'S SUPPLY POSITION
GONINTIAL
General appraisal:
On the surface, Japan's meroury position appears strong at the present
time. Japen is kmowm, however, to be maling strenous efforte to improve it.
It may be that the present industrial expansion has foroed Japan to make e
large capital investment in mercury, which will not need to be repleced, but
whose initial demands may heve considerably raised Japan's requirements for
the time being. It is reported, for instance, that during the past yeer Japan
has consmed a large smount of meroury in converters for electrical ourrent in
the Bonshu-Kyusbu tunnel. In the United States, this capital investment has in
large measure alreedy been made, and the ratio between U.S. consumptien and
Japan's may therefore not be representative. If Japan's requirements over the
past few years beve been in exeees of 500 tons, the stookpile would now be
1 Total Axailable to Japanese Har Eponoay
Stooke on hand, 1/1/43
1,400
2.
New Supplies, 1943
21-500
Gross Supplies, 1943.
(1 plus 2).
1,421-1,900
Requirements, 1943
500b/
5.
Stocks on hand, 1/1/44.
(3 mima 6)
921-1.600
SOURCES OF NEW SUPPLIES, 1943
(Item 2, above)
Region, Classified
New Suppliee Available to Japanese War Foopomy
with Regard to Ship-
ping Distanoes and
Peroent
Peroent
Administrative Org-
Total
Total
Total
anisation
Suppli
Group I, total.
20
4.0
4.0
Japan Proper.
20
4.0
4.0
Karafuto.
Group II, total.
14
0.24
0.24
1
0.24
0.24
Manchuria
Ocoupled China
Group IXI, total.
Mandated Islands
Philippine Islands
Netherlands Indies
Bornso, etc.
Indeohina.
Thailand.
Group IV, total.
500 or less
95.8
95.8
500 or less
95.8
95.8
Free China
Total
about 500
100.0
100.0
See back of this shest for explanatory notes and footaotes.
32-1917

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
CONSUMPTIOS PATTERN IN THE UNITED STATES
(Fervent)
Im the abesncs of speciric information on consumption in Japan, this
's consumption pattern will be identical.
July,
Jamuary,
Use
191
1963
Total mequirements, 1943 (tons)
xxx
2200.
29.9%
25.1%
5.5
11.7
Agriculture
7.7
2.1
Vermillion and anti-fouling point
6.1
2.0
Felt mamufacture
2.9
As catalyst, or in electrolytic preparation of
chlorine, caustic soda, acetic acid, etc.
9.7
7.2
Electrical apparatus
11.5
9.2
Redistilled, industrial and control instruments
22.5
24.7
Blasting caps
n.s.s.
1.7
Amalgamation end general laboratory use
n.s.s.
0.9
Others
15.6
Substitutes:
Fully efricient substitutes do not exist in most cases. Possible sub-
stitutions are: lead xide in non-military detonators; silver ascimide for
falminates, potassium chlorate as an extender in fulminates; asoimide in ful-
minates and gold extraction; gutte-perche and plastics for dental amalgams;
vegetable drurs for calomel.
EXPLANATORY NOTES
Definition of requirements: (see also footnote b/)
(1) In relation to raw materials used primarily in the manufacture of pro-
duction and mar goods:
Unless otherwise specified, "requiremente" means the amount needed
to keep the industrial plant operating at eapacity, assuming no substitutions.
In relation to Japan Proper, the total industrial capacity, as allocated under
plans for the war soonomy is inoluded. In relation to occupied areas, only that
part of the industrial plant which is operating as a part of the Japaness war
effort is included.
(2) In relation to raw materials used primarily to satisfy consmer needs:
Unless otherwise specified, "requirements" means the amount need-
ed to keep the population of Japan, the Japanese army and navy, and that part
of the population of the ccoupied areas whose labor or whose good will is
necessary to the Japanese war econcmy, clothed, fed, and housed at a minimm
subsistence level.
Geperal amliricationa:
The quantitative estimates of supplies are made, unless otherwise speci-
fied, without regard to possible shipping or manpower bottlenecks.
As a general rule, the estimates tend to be high rather than low, on
the assumption that in dealing with the enemy's position, the bigh estimate is
the eonservative one.
Convsrsion facteras.
One flask = 75 pounds (American) or 76 pounds (European). 29.38 Ameri-
ean flasks : one metric ton. 29.0 European flasks = one metric ton.
Leptratess
The high estimate assumes that supplies will contime to be smuggled to
Japan from Italy, Spain and perhaps from Free China. Known crders from
Spain and Italy in 1942 totalled 477 metrie tons, most of which mas probably
delivered. Production in Free China is somewhat over 200 metric tons. The
Russien government has contracted for 200 tons. Some of the rest may be
smuggled to Japan.
In relatien to United States consumption, this figure would appear to be
high rather then low. For explanatory comments, see the "General appraisal"
on the front of this sheet.
22
The Jepanese claim to have discovered deposits in Mapchuria. They are not
believed to be important.
Recently reported deposits of mercury in North Borneo may have a potential
annual production of upwards of l00 tons.
32-1917

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
BOARD F ECONOMIC WARFARE
Enemy Branch
VANADÍUN
March 15, 1943
(metric tons recoverable v)
VANADIUM
NOtE: The figures given below are subject to revision, as Japan's position
ahanges and as new data are received. For the latest information, call the
Office of the Chief of the Asiatic Axis Seotion, Extension 2471.
EONITIAL
SUMMARY OF JAPAN'S SUPPLY POSITION
General appraisal:
If facilities in Japan for recovering vanadium from metallic sands
and cres have even half of the capacity claimed for them, Japan's vansdium
position is assured indefinitely. Vanadium is extremely difficult to recover
from these cres, however, because of their viscosity, and it is not knorm how
successful Japanese techniques have been. Requirements are highly flexible,
especially in view of the large supplies of tungsten available.
Total Available to Japanese Wer Eoonomy
1.
Stooks on hand, 1/1/43
650
2.
Nex Supplies, 1943.
420
3.
Gross Supplies, 1943
(1 plus 2).
1,070
4.
Requirerents, 1943.
2004g
5.
Stocks on hand, 1/1/44
(3 minu 4)
870
SOURCES OF NEW SUPPLIES, 1943
(Item 2, above)
Repion Classified
New Supplies Available to Japanese War Eoonomy
with Regard to Ship-
ping Distances and
Administrative Or-
Total
Percent Total
Percent Total
genisation
(in metrig tons)
Requirements
New Supplies
Group I, total
400
200.0
95.0
Japan Proper
400 b/
200.0
95.0
Karafuto.
Group Ⅱ, total
20
10.0
5.0
Korea
Formos
Manchuria
20
g
10.0
5.0
Ocoupied China
Group III, total.
Mandated Islands
Philippine Islands
Netherlands Indies
eto.
Indochina
Malaya.
Thailand
Bur
Total.
420
210
100.0
Other Far Eastern Souroes:
None known.
Bes back of this sheet for explanatory notes.
VANADIUN
59-1817

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
CONSUMPTION PATTERN IN THE-UNITED STATES
(Percent)
Ost In the absence of specifio information on consumption in Japan, this in-
tion is given for the United States. It should not be assumed that Japan's
ption-pattern will be identical.
Use
1942
Total consumption (appraximate tonnage)
2700
Uses in steels:
High speed tool steels
53 percent
Armor plate, ordnanoe castings, forgings, eta.
23
Airoraft parts and miscellaneous
7
Ship parts
17
Small amounts of vanadium are also used as a
catalyist in the produotion of sulphuric acid, and
in pigments and ceramic colore.
Substitutes:
Tungaten and molybdenum can be used as partial substitutes in tool and other
steels. Platinum can substitute as a catalyst in the production of sulphuric
acid. It is believed that Japan will probably not have to resort to the use of
substitutes for vanadium.
EXPLANATORY NOTES
Definition of requiremente: (See also footnote a)
(1) In relation to raw materials used primarily in the manufacture of production
and r goods:
Unless otherwise specified, "requirements" means the amount needed
to keep the industrial plant operating at eapacity, assuming no substitutions.
In relation to Japan Proper, the total industrial capacity, as allocated under
plans for the war economy, is included. In relation to occupied areas, only
that part of the industrial plent which is operating as a part of the Japanese
war effort is included.
(2) In relation to raw materials used primarily to satisfy consumer needs:
Unless otherwise specified, "requirements" means the amount needed
to keep the population of Japan, the Japanese army and navy, and that part of
the population of the occupied ereas whose labor or whose good sill is necessary
to the Japanese war economy, clothed, fed, and housed at a minimum subsistence
level.
General gualificatione:
The quantitative estimates of supplies are made, unless otherwise speci-
fied, without regard to possible shipping or manpower bottlenecks.
As a general rule, the estimates tend to be high rather than los, on the
assumption thet in dealing with the enemy's position, the hirh estimate is the
conservative one.
Conversion factora:
One ton of vanadium metal contained in ore or concenirates = 0.75 ton of
recoverable metal. One ton of vanadium oxide (V205) contains 0.56 tons of
vanadium. One ton of ferrovanadium contains from 0.35 to 0.40 (average-0.3796)
ton of vanadium.
Eootnotes:
Requirements are highly flexible depending on metallurgical practice and
the availability of substitutable ferro-alloys. The estimate given here is
based in large measure on a reasonable ratio to American consumption.
b/
Japan claime to have 3 plants capable of extracting vanadium from metallic
sands and ores. For one of these plants, believed to heve been completed
in 194l, Japan claims a capacity of 400 metric tons. Whether or not this
has been attained is not knowm.
g
No actual production figures are available. A smeltinr compeny for vanadium
was reported to have been constructed in l94l, and'numerous deposits have
been reported. The estimate given here is very rough.
Prior to the war Japan obtained some vanadium from still coke purchased from
The Standard Vacuum Oil refineries in Palembang. This may be a potential
source for Japan in the future.
33-1817

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
BOARD OF BOONOMIC WARPARE
VOLYBDENUN
roh 15. 1943
(metric tons: recoverable Mo)
MOLYBDENUM
NoT%: The figures given below are subject to revision, as Japan's position
changes and as new data are received. For the latest information, call the
Ofrice of the Chief of the Asiatic Axis Section, Extension 2471.
SUIMARY OF JAPAN'S SUPPLY POSITION
General appraisal:
Unless Japanese requirements have been greatly underestimated, the
Japanese position with respect to molybdemm should be assured for at least
8 or 10 years. Any increase in supply would probably be accompanied by
an increase in consumption.
:Total Available to Japanese War Ecopomy
CONFI
1.
Stooks on hand, 1/1/43.
2,460
2.
New Supplies, 1943.
150
3.
Gross Supplies, 1943
(1 plus 2).
2,610
4.
Requirements, 1943
400
Stocka on hand, 1/1/44
(3 minus 4)
2,210
SOURCES OF NEW SUPPLIES, 1943
(Item 2, above)
Region, Classified
New Supplies Available to Japanege War Boonomy
with Regard to Ship-
ping Distances and
Administrative Or-
Total
Peroent Total
:Percent Total
ganisation
Requirements
:Hew Supplies
Group I, total.
Negligible
Japan Proper.
Negligible
Karafuto.
Group II, total.
150
37.5
100.0
Korea.
100
25.0
66.7
Formosa
Manchuria
40 b/
10.0
26.7
Oocupied Chins
10
2.5
6.6
Oroup III, total
Mandated Islanda
Philippine Islands
Netherlands Indies
Borneo, etc.
Indochina
Malaya
Thailand
Negligible
Total.
150
37.5
100.0
Other Far Eastern Sources:
Australia: about 10 tons: Free China: possibly some.
See back of this shest for explanatory notes.
33-1917

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
COMSUMPTION PATTERN IE THE UEITED STATEGÀ
(Peroent)
In the abeence of specific information on consumption in Japan, this
informatiom is given for the United States. It should not be assumed that
Japan's oonsumption pattern will be identical.
1942
Total domestic consumption (approximate tonnage)
20,000
Army tanks
24 percent
Guns and ammmition
24
Aircraft
96
Automotive (military)
Ships and other direct military
6
High-speed tool steel
17
Industrial equipment
9
Miscellaneous
5
Substitutes:
Other ferro-alloys.
EXPLANATORY NOTES
Definition of requiremente: (See also footnote )
(1) In relation to raw materials used primarily in the mamufacture of pro-
duction and mar goods:
Unless otherwise specified, "requirements" means the amount
needed to keep the industrial plant operating at capacity, mssuming no sub-
stitutions. In relation to Japan Proper, the total industrial capacity, as
allocated under plans for the war economy, is included. In relation to
occupied areas, only that part of the industrial plant which is operating
as a part of the Japanese war effort is included.
(2) In relation to raw materials used primarily to satisfy consumer needs:
Unless otherwise specified, "requirements" means the amount
needed to keep the population of Japan, the Japanese army and navy, and that
part of the population of the occupied areas whose labor or whose good will
is necessary to the Japanese war economy, clothed, fed, and housed at a
minimum subsistenos level.
General qualificatione:
The quantitative estimates of supplies are made, unless otherwise
specified, without regard to possible shipping or manpower bottlenecks.
As a general rule, the estimates tend to be high rather than low,
on the assumption that in dealing with the enemy's position, the high
estimate is the conservative one.
Conversion factore:
The loss of molybdenum in recovery from ores and concentrates is
usually about 7 peroent.
Footpotens
Requirements for molybdemm are highly flexible, depending on metallurgi-
cal technology and availability of other ferro-alloys. In Japan, large
supplies of tungsten make extensive use of molybdemm unnecessary, whereas
in the United States, consumption of molybdemm is very high partly be-
cause of the shortage here of tungaten. The estimate of Japanese require-
menta given here is probably low rather than high. On the basis of
kmown import statistics, it allows for a stookpile sufficient for 10 years.
Any increase in new suppliss would probably be accompanied-by a correspond-
ing increase in.consumption.
Although deposits are kmown to exist, no production figures are available.
This is a very rough estimate.
Deposits are kmown to exist in Chekiang and Kiangsi Provinces. Some
molybdemm is also probably recovered as a by-product of other mining
operations. This is a very rough estimate.
2
The Japanese pattern of consumption will undoubtedly be quite different
from this because of the difference in the tungsten situation.
33-1817

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STALE
DHACFOF
AMENLADPUBACAFAIR
DEPAR
251944
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
SECRET
Montevideo, Uruguay
No. 4542
July 4, 1944
00
Subjegt?
Japanese Financial and Economic
conditiona. Report of Military
14
Attaché on Conversation with two
Russian Couriers.
3-FEa
rhe
7/22.
RY
AIR MAIL
File M.E.M.
Secret
LEAVING MONTEVIDEO
The Honorabre
JUL 7-1944
The Seeretary of State,
894.50/7-444
Washington.
10.3.
JUL 1 S 1944
Sir:
DIVISION OF
I have.the honor..to refer to the Department's
circular airgram of April 21, 1944, requesting such
information as might be available from local resi-
dents on econemic or financial conditions within
the Japanese Empire.
wy
o   R
In this regard there 1s enclosed for the De-
partment's information, a copy of a report pre-
pared by the office of the Military Attaché sum-
marizing a conversation held with two Russian
diplomatic couriers who have recently visited
Japan.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Office of
AudlegS Dirgp
FAH EASTERN AFFAIHS
SPECIAL POLITICAL AFFAINS
1944
Dudley G Dwyre
TSOAUG 801944
Counselor of Embassy
Department of Stat
J2
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Enclosure:
Report prepared by office of the
Military Attaché.
91944
OMP:led
(To Department in original
for Ozalid)
DIVISION OF COMMERGIAL POLICY
AUG 1 2 1944
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to despatch no. 4542
July 4, 1944 from American Em-
bassy, Montevideo, Uruguay.
from Military
taohé
29 June 1944
TIAL
On 28 June 1944 the Russian Minister 1n Montevideo
rasoption to inaugurate the new Legation and to pro-
de an opportunity to meet the Diplomatic colony.
In the Legation were' two, Russian Dipbmatic couriers,
Akakal Bagrantianovieh ToLORaYA and Vladimir Ivanovich
PsatcHEnkov, who, In spite of considerable reticence and
language handicaps made the following statements of possible
interest.
a. One of them was in Japan during December and
January of 1944 and the other was in Japan during January
and February of 1944. They visited among other places,
Tokye, the island of Hokkaido, Keijo in Korea, and Harbin,
Manchuria.
b. They were kept under close, constant, and ob-
vious observation by the Japanese police, and part of the
time at least, stayed in hotel rooms in which there were
no windows.
o. There was very little food available. There was
rice and riah but no meat, sugar, or bread. There appeared
to be some sort of substitute bread which was very bad.
d. In Keijo they were told that there had been three
but with little success. When asked about transportation
between Keijo and Japan proper they stated that transporta-
tion seemed to function but that peeple were afraid to
travel because some of the ships were sunk.
e. They saw few troops but many police in Japan
proper and their friends told them that most of the troops
were in Manchuria, Korea, and China. They were told that
there were many air bases in Korea and Manchuria for use
against China.
f. The two men seemed to know little or nothing about
General Doolittle's raid and had heard no talk about bomb-
ings or the fear of bombings.
B. They could not or would not repeat any comment
about the campaigns in the South Pacific. The emphasis
on war reaetion was on the effect of the submarine cempaign.
h. One of the couriers made the remark that first it
was necessary to make Hitler "caput" then they could help
us with Japan.
3. It is regretted that one of the men speke only a
few words or English and the other spoke only alightly
more Spanish. It is believed that once warmed to the subjeet
more valuable information might have been obtained.
William A. Tidwell
Morman A. Congdon, Lt.Col., GSC
Major, Intantry
Milatary Attaché
From N.A., Urmguay
Assistant M.A.
Report No. 2759

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Chingking, Chi
July 17, 194
BESTRICTED
No. 2774
Subjoct:
Copy of Translation of Report on the Politleal
and Economic Aspects of Japan's Puppet Organ-
izations.
Dstraio
No
lor
894.50/7-1744
SEP1919
The Ambassador has the honor to tranamit one copy
f a translation by FEA, Chungking, of a report entitled
The Political and Economic Aspects of Japan's Puppet
rganizations" prepared by Dr. Li Chow-ying, director of
he Kuomintang Economic Service, Chungking.
Due to the length of this report the Embassy has
hot seen fit to make additional copies and is not retain-
ing a copy in its files. It is thought, however, that
the enclosed copy will prove of considerable interest
to the Department. Copies of this translation were
forwarded by the local FEA office to FEA at Washington
on July 13, 1944.
894.50/7-1744
SION OF
1544
Enclosure:
/ Copy of Report.
Single copy to the Department.
C2
20
711 Jap
CHB:rls
1944
GS/D
DE
[2

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
Holosure to Despatch No. 2774'dated July 17, 1944)
Trom the American Embassy, Chungking, China.
FEA-GK-30XQ
RESTRICTED
GOPY NO.5
THE
POLITIOALAND ECONOMIC ASPEOTS
OF
JAPAN·S PUPPET
ORGANIZATIONS
by
Li Chow-ying
Direetor, Kuomintang Economic Service
(Published, October, 1943)
Translated by
FRA - CHUNGKING

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
THE POLITICAL AND EOONOMIC ASPEOTS OF JAPAN'S
PUPPET ORGANIZATIONS
CONTENTS
Page
Chapter I. Introduction
111233367
1. Metives behind Japanese Aggression
Capture of Natural Resources
Seizure of Foodstuffs
(e) Enhaneing Industrial Produotive Power
2.
Japanese Aggression Machinery
(a) Supreme Headquarters
Planning Organizations
(e) Executive Organizations
3.
Japanese Aggression Poliey
7
4.
Confliets of Political and Economio Policies
12
(a) Politieal Confliots
13
(b) Keonomie Conflicts
13
Chapter II. Puppet Politioal Organizations
15
i. Tranaformation of Puppet Political Organizations
15
a)
General Remarks
15
(b)
Manchukuo
16
Mongolian United Autonomous Government
16
d)
North China Politioal Commission
17
The Puppet Central Government
17
2.
Malicious Political Moves
18
(a) Movement to Strengthen Peace and Order in North
China
19
(b) Pacification Movement in Central China
21
3. Puppet Civic Groups
23
4. Puppet Educational Policy
25
5. Proposed Counter Meusures
26
Chapter III. Puppet Economy
27
1. Tacties of Economic Warfare
27
2. Teeties of Plunder
28
(1) Direet Plunder
28
(2) Exploitation
30
Dumping
31
(4) Bloekade
32
(5) Rationing
35
3. Coumter-Measures
36
Chapter IV. Money end Banking
38
1. Tacties of Curreney War
38
2. Puppet Banks and Banknotes
39
Puppet Banks
39
654345
Puppet Banknotes
Aequisition of Foreign Exahange
Devaluation of the Chinese Dollar
Ban on the Cireulation of NC Netes
Counterfeiting the NC Notes
3.
Defense Against Curreney War
45
(1) Fereign Exehange Contrel
45

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
mts contimued)
Page
(2)
Restrietion on the Movement of NC Notes
46
Ban on the Ciroulstion of Japanese and Puppet
Notos
46
(4)
Increasing the Value of the NC in Ocoupied
Areas
46
4. Proposed Coumter-Heasures
47

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
THE POLITICAL AND EGONOMIO ASPEOTS OF
JAPAN'S PUPPET ORGANIZATIONS
Ghayter I. Intreduetion
1. Motives behind Japanese Aggression
Japan's aggressive designs on China on the pattern of her Centimental
Peliey, whish has beeeme traditienal since the Meiji Era, were semplete-
ly expesed in the Tanaka Memerial. The fellewing quotations from the
memorial muffice to show her territoriel ambition:
"In accerdance with the policy left by Emperor Meiji, the first and
sesond steps - sonquests of Formosa and Korea - have been duly taken,
but the third step of annexing Manohuria and Mengelia as a prelude
for the cemplete subjugation of China has not yet been realised."
"Befere conquering China we must conquer Manohuria and Mongelia:
before conquering the whele world, we must sonquer China. When
Chima is completely subjugated, the other foreign nations in Central
Amia, India and the East Indies will respect and fear us and submit
to our rule, so that the world will know East Asia belengs to us
and will never dare to be aggressive toward us."
In order to realise her ambition, she had three means ef aggression
at her dispesal: Military, politieal and economic. These means are
often applied in coordination, often simultaneously. Though the first
two seemed to be the chief means of aggression, she actually plased
prineipal reliance on economio means using the others as gestures.
The Twenty-one Demands of 1925 were ohiefly concerned with eeonemie
exploitation and may serve as an example of economio aggression via
palitical. On September 18, 1931, Japan invaded Manchuria in order to
realise what Tanaka said in his memorial: "In Manahuria ant kongelia
we should sdopt the prinoiple of grabbing special rights so es to
utilise these rights to cultivate our trade." This is an example of
economic aggression via military. From July 7 incident till now the
behaviour of the Japanese has clearly indicated their emphasis on
eeonemic aggression. The reason for much emphasis may be found from
the following observations.
(a) Capture of Natural Resourees, Frem their impact with Eurepean
sivilization during the Era of Reformation, the Japanese realized
industrialisation was the prerequisite to their rise as a great pewer.
But industrialisation required an abundance of raw materials, and the
Lack of natural resources was a fetal weakness of Japanese econemie
strueture. Accerding to their owm estimate, of the twenty-five
prineipal raw materials for the productien of munitions, they were
self-mufficient only in magnesium, iron sulfide and rayen. of the
supply of iron for heavy industries, Japan could only produee 17.8%
befere eccupying Manchuris, sinse which her efforts of expleitatien
suscceded te ralse the quota to only 70%. As to cotten and weol
required by the light industries, she was self-suffisient to the extent
of 20% and 5% respestively. Moreover she lacked all other raw
materials te a greater or less extent. She was intent en getting
Mancharia because she eeveted iren in Liaening, geld in Heilungkiang,

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
● 2 -
in the valleys of Yalu and ether rivers and its spesial erep-
beans. All thess would make up many of her deficieneies of raw
torials, but still far from solving the preblem of insuffieient
atural reseurees. Henee her resolution to extend her aggression to
the five previnees of North China, and the creation of the July 7
imeident. Imdeed North China possesses many of the required raw
materials, mueh as iren from the Lungyen mines in Chahar, coal in
Shansi, setten in Hepei, weol in Chahar and Suiyuan and salt in Hepei
and Shantung, whieh Japan has always coveted. But her greed was
imsatiable. Hardly had she secured hold of the rich resourees of North
Chins, she began to plot the plunder of those of Central and South
China. Such is the first motive of Japanese economic aggression.
(b) Baimure ef Poedstuffs. As an old maxim puts it, "enough food
enough meldiers," food supply occupies first place in the economy of
national defenee. In World Wer I, Germany was defeatod not on the
field of battle, but in the food front. Japan consists of a long and
narrow arohipelego with only 13.5% of oultivable land, the rest being
three quarters hilly terrain and other equally unproductive soil. With
the population greatly inoreased since Meij1 era the food problem has
become ever more serious. As a result of encouraging measures adopted
by the government, cultivated land was extended by one third during
the last fifty years. In the last deeade, however, extension has
slowed down as all the fertile land had been utilized and further
extension only meant cultivetion of poor land. Consequently the effert
of the Japenese government to inerease the food supply has not been
very successful. Japan had to import foreign rice in addition to what
she get from Korea and Formosa. Although Japan together with her
pessessions, as Japenese and Koreans fondly believe, is not far from
self-muffieieney in food supply, the problem is not at all so simple.
Fer Japanese are used to only one species of rice called Japanese
riee, whieh is prodused as it is consumed only in Japan, Korea and
Fermosa. The Formosans produce Jupenese rice for Japanese consumption
and produee another kind for their own use. The mupply and demand of
Japanese rice was confined to such a small area, that befere the
institution or rice and grain control, the least surplus was reflected
in market disturbanee and the least deficit in some part of population
suffering frem want, illustrcted respectively by the violent drop in
the prise of rise in 1930, and the looting of rice in 1918. Sinse
the outbreak of her war of aggression, large numbers of farmers have
been sent to the frent or absorbed into the wer industries, and
predastien of staple erops has been considerably redused for the lask
of farm laber. The mituatien was aggravated by drought in Korea and
the Western part of Japan during 1939 culminated in serious shortage
tewards the end of the year. Japanese treops in the occupied areas
began to seek loeal sourees of Bod supply and to forage for riee as the
shier item of plunder quite in aceerdenee with their deelared poliey
of making the war self-supporting, all the more nesessary mew in view
of the worsening of food situatien at home. During the recent years
the Japanese have taken away inestimable quantities of riee frem the
people in escupied areas as a result of extensive and systematie
plander eausing great danger to our wartime esonomy. This is the
seeond metive of Japanese esonemie aggressien.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
-3.
 the prednetien ef its heavy indnstries is the determinimg feeter
ef its meseess er defeat. Binee the war Japen has exerted every effert
to imsrease the predustion of her heavy industries. At the end ef
1937 the Japenese government drew up a Five-Year Plan for the Inerease
of Predustien, whieh was duly put inte exesution from the fellewing
year. But Japamese preduetive power having already been expleited to
the limit, further effort met with only diminishing returns. In the
course of the earrying out of the plan the index of predustien has
varied asserding te three perieds. The first peried, from the outbreak
of the war to June 1938, was marked by a great redustion in the
predustien ef eensumption goods follewing government restrietion en
impert of raw materials of mush (cheifly cellulose) goods and of
installatiom of mew machinery, and by the extreme propperity of war
industries. During the second period, from June 1938 to June 1939,
there was a slight inerease in the produetion of consumption goods,
while that ef preduetion goods continued its rising trend as government
ferbede the people to employ the raw materials required in making these
goods. During the third period, June 1939 till the outbreak of the
Eurepean War, there was not much change in production except that of
iron, steel and machinery, in some cases initial inereases being fellowed
by setbaeks. In whert, the result of the Four-Year Plan was the
extensien of heavy industries at the sacrifics of the light industries.
But there is a limit to suah extension, beyond whioh production will net
be inereased, and will even begin to decrease, There fore since the
start of the war, in Europe with the stoppage of supply of certain raw
materials and tools ef preduetien, aggravated by labor shortage and
inereasing finaneial difficulty, production of all kinds of industry
has been steedily falling. Japen must find some way out of the present
fix if she wishes te prosecute the extended war of aggresaion. Tho way
adopted is to exploit the occupied arees to the limit and to readjust
the whole produetion poliey so as to coordinate the productions of
Japen and occupied China - to realize the so-called Jupan-Lianehuria-
Chima esonomic self-sufficiency. This is the third motive of the
Japanese economie aggression.
2. Japanese Aggression Machinery
(a) Supreme Hesdauarters: Since July 7. 1931 the Japanese Hinistry
of War prepesed to establish a government department to deal with
Chinese affairs with the objest of unifying the direetion of aggressive
astion in Chime, thereby causing many controversy in the eabinet in
whieh Fereign Minister Hirota tendered his resignation. Afterwards
fellewing the preeedent of Manchuria Office ahe Ministry of War
established the China Ofrise, putting military, political, eeonomie
and diplematis affairs in China under its eharge. In September 1959
the War Minister Sakagaki brought the matter up at a eabinet meeting.
The Fereign Minister Ugaki eppesed on the ground that the China Offiee
sheuld only funetion temporarily for the duration of the Chine Ineident
and lkmit its astivities to areas oscupled by the aray or navy. Ugaki

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
a to accept a compromise measure proposed by steffs of the
Stries of War, Nary and Foreign Affairs, and resigmed his effiee.
Is measure was referred to a conferonce of four ministers held on
ptember 30. At the suggestion of Funeda, Chief of Law Codification
Dareau, who thought the name "China Office" inadequate for an organisati
to be given mupreme power to build up a new order in Rast Asie, the name
was ehanged to "Asia Office" and the measure was passed in prineiples.
On Deeember 16 the Japanese Government promulgated the regulations
governing the organization of Asis Office and its Liaison Centers. Ada
Offiee was put under the direct  dministration of the cebinet, the prime
minister serving conourrently as director with the assistance of a ee-
direeter. Under them were & secretary goneral and three departments, vi
fimanee, eeonomy and oulture to be supplemented when necessary with two
more: technioal and liaison. The Asia Ofrice had jurisdiction over
affairs conserning:
1. Matters of politios, economy and oulture in China for the
duration of the China Inoident.
The establiahment of policies relative to the bove matters.
3.
The supervision and @ ntrol of the businoss of componies formed
under special lews for enterprises in China.
4. Unification of administrative measures of various orgunizations
vis-a-vis China.
The following lieison centers ere cstablished: Mongolia-Sinkinng
Liaivon Center at Kalgan, North China at Peiping, Central China at
Shanghai and Amoy st Amoy. Also agencies were established in Tsingtao
and ether places.
with the initiel successes obtrined by Japan following the outbreak
of the Pacific Wor, the sphere of uEgression was greatly extended and
reorgenization of the supreme directing organization was called for.
During recent months there were rumors of the establiahment of a
Ministry of Greater East Asia, which actually came into existence on
Oetober 1, 1942. The new ministry was formed by the reorganization of
the Asia Office, and the Ministries of Forcign Affcirs, Interior and
Colonies, the last being completely taken over. It was divided into
four divisions: General Affairs, Manchurian Affairs, Chinese Affairs
and South Seas Affalrs. The ministry headed by Minister Aoki was
authorized to carry out administrativo work (except purely diplomatie
affairs) in Greater East Asia outside of Jupan, Korea, Formoss and
Karafuto, cnd to direct policies for systematio infiltration along
politioal, economio and cultural lines with the object of building up
the colleotive economic strength of Greater East Aaia."
With the Formation of the ministry, Korea, Formosa and Karafuto were
put under the administration of the Ministry of Interior, and thus
iven the status like that of Japan Proper instead of their former
colonial status. At the same time the subject peoples of Asia were to
be governed separately through Chinese Affairs, Manchurian Affairs and
South Seas Affeirs Divisions of the new Ninistry.
The Ministry of Greater East Asia exercised jurisdiction even greater
in seope than the former Asia Office ineluding:
l. Political, econemie and cultural administrative work, escept
that purely diplomatio in nature.
2. Matters eoneerning Japanese residing in Greater East Asia Zone

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.94)
-5-
and protestion of their trade.
Searsh and expleitation ef natural resources in the Zene.
Supervision of entorprises in the Zone established under spesial
rogukations.
5.
All kinds ef oultural werk needed in the Zone.
6.
Trmining ef personnel needed in the Zone.
The divisiens and sub-divisions of the ministry and their funetiens
are as follows.
GHEATER EAST ASIA MINISTHY
Sasrstarias
Dusinasà Staff
Investigation stass
MINISTER
uffive of the Hinister
Council - councillors
Documents seetion
rersonnel
Acoounting
VICE KINISTER
Telecommunicutions section
General iffaira
Hanchurian Affaire
Chinese Affairs
south soss afraiy
Division
Divimion
Dirision
Division
Gem. Affairs Sec.
Gon. Affairs Seo.
Gen. Affairs Seo.
Administration Se
Investigation "
Trade & Enterprises
Administration"
Supervision See.
Deen. Affairs "
Section
cultural
Pinancial
Training
Colonial Administration Financial
rroduative
Cheeking & Exan Sec.
Seotion
Agrioulture &
Enterprises Sec
Exploration section
Forestry Sootion Comaunications 
Youth Section -
Coumerce & Industry
Young Won & Howon
seotion
Volunteers
Communications seo.
To insure coordination with the other govurnment orgunizations the
Ministry of Greater East Asia is 1inked with the Greater -ast Asis
Coordination Committoe with the minister as chairman and the following
members:
Seeretary General of the Cabinet
Chief of the Law Codification Buroau
Assistant Direotor of the Planning Counoil
Viee-Minister of Information
Vice-Ministors of all the ministries
Chief of Army and Navy Affairs Buroau
Directer of Generul Affairs Divisien, Ministry of
Greater East Asia.
The committee has a seoretariat composed of the heads of General

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
Seetiens of Army and Navy Ministry, Planning Ceunsil d
ary ef Fareign Affairs, and the heads of General Affairs and
ds Affairs Beetions of the General Afrairs Division of the
mistry ef Greater East Asía.
(b) annáng Organásations. PMans for agsression are made in Asis
Devele ment Commission, and those concerning cconomic affairs first in
the Japan-Manchurie-Chine Keenomic Construetion Commission and Later in
the Greater Asia Construstion Counail.
l. Asia Demmleument Cemmissian - Ihis served as the advisory organ of
the Direster of the Asis Office, and was established with the ides of
Gelleating the views of Japanese leaders and experts and formulating
sencrete and appropriate measures to deal with the Chins Insident fer
the referemse of the government. Artieles II and III of the organis
laws ef the commission spesified that the commission was to cempese of
a shairman and fifty members, and that the direotor of the Asia Offise
was to aot cenourrently as chairman, and the members were to be appeint-
ed by the cabinet on the recommendation of the Prime Minister from
among the high officials of related government departments and peeple
well-knewn for spesial wealth of knowledge and experience.
Under the commission there was to be a certain number of secretaries.
The list ef members of the commission and sooretaries announced on July
4, 1939 inaluded the four heads of the Liaison Centers of the Asia
Office, high offioials of army, navy und diplomatic services and
representative economists and newspapermen.
2. Japan-Hanahuris-China sconomic Construction Commission- Since
November 5, 1940, when Japan announced her "rrinciples Governing
Japan-Manchuria-Cnina Eoonomic Development", ahe proceeded to take
conorete steps for their realization, and in March 1941 decided to
establish under the Cabinet the "Japan-Munchuria-China Eoonomio
Construetion Cemmission" and the "Japan-Lanchuria-China conomis
Counsil" as the standing office of the Commission to study motual plans.
The organisation and aims of the Commission were as follows:
A. Organismtien - The Direotor of the Planning Council was to serve
as Chairmen of the Commission. The members were to be appointed
from officials of the rank of, or corresponding to vice-ministers
of the Ministries of War, Navy, Foreigu Affairs, Pinance, Commeree
and Industry, Agrioulture and Forestry, Colonies, josts, Railrays
and the Manchurian Affairs Bureau of the Asia Office, and also frem
the leading officials stationed in anchuria, Mongolia, North,
Central and South China.
B.
Aima - The Commission's aims mere to formulate plans of "The
Greater Asia Co-Irosperity Zone", und to direot and coordinate
sollestive economio construction of Japan-lianahuria-China. As soon
as the Commission was organized, it assumed the following responsib-
1lities pursuant to the *Yrinoiples Governing Japan-Hanehuria-Chins
Enonemie Censtructien":
1. Rehabilitation and extension of important basic industries in
Manehuria.
2. Expleitation of the natural resources and reconstruction of the
eesnomy of China.
3.
Divisien ef preductive enterprises amang Japan, Manahuria and
Chims, and other comokete measures.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
erganisation of Japan-Manchuria-China Economie Ceuncil was
by the Directer ef the Planning Ceunoil as Chairman and sempesed
ise-ministers and assistant directers of related government
raments as members. There was also a Seoretariat compesed of hágk
fficials of related government departments with subsidiary divisiens
and an effice located at the Planning Counoil.
3. Greater Asds Censtruction Counail - Following the new develepments
as a result of the outbreak of the Pacific War, the above Commission
was reorganised into Greater East Asia Construotion Couneil with the
Directer of Planning Council, Suzuki, still in charge as Secretary
General. At the fifth meeting of the Council held in July 23, 1942, it
passed measures among whioh were "Fundamental rrinciples for the
censtruetion of Greater East Asia", "Basic Electric Power Proposals for
Mining and Industries of Greater East Asia", and "Basio Proposals for
Currenoy, Finance and Trade of Greater East Asia."
(c) Mxegutive Organizationg. To carry out political aggression in
ocoupied China puppet organizations were utilized. First there were
the Provisional Gevernment in North China and Reformed Government in
Central China. Today there is the puppet "National Government" and
North China "Political Commission". Execution of measures of economio
aggression is in the hands of the Economic Bureaux established by North
China and South China Liaison Centers, which control planning and
investigation of cconomic development in occupied areas, construction of
transportation, telecommunicution and aviation enterprises, purchase
and management of produotive enterprises, organization of water conser-
vanoy, salt-making and shipbuilding businesses, development of cemmerce
and trade, regulation of harbors and watervays and control of money and
currency. Two national corporations cstablished under the conomio
Bureaux, called the North China Exploitation Corporation and the Central
China Development Corporation, served as chief agencies of economic
aggression in China exerting every effort to plunder all the natural
resouroes and productives enterprises in the occupied areas. Their
organization and operating conditions will be gone into in greater detail
in the chapter on the conomy of Japan and the Puppet Organizations.
3. Japanese Aggression Policy
Japan's traditional policy for conquering China has followed three
formulae known as Ploicies "to Destroy China by means of China", "to
Control China Through China" and "to Laintain Warfare by Means of
Warfare".
To destroy China by memns of China is the formula for military
aggression whereby occupied portions of China are to serve as stepping
stones and bases for further aggression, and strategic points throughout
China are to be seized till ultimately they command the entire country.
The policy to control China through China is the formula for political
aggression utilizing Chinese traitors and corruptible officials to
organize puppet governments and impose servitude on the Chinese people.
"To maintain warfare by means of Warfare", the formula for economis
aggression, seeks to supplement Japan's meagre natural resources with
the material and fimanoial resouroes and manpower of China.
Altheugh the three formulas are inseparably connected together and

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8-
complementary, military aggression has been most conspieueus.
to July 7, 1937 military aggression teok the form of "the milk-
semmumins milberry leafe. Slice by alice Korea and Formose were
an up after the war of 1894, sovereignty over Manshuria was eereashed
Pom after the Russo-Japanese War, finally Hanehuria und Inner Mengelia
were escupied in l931 and North China assumed a peculiar sharaster.
Genquest of China was to be a gradual process. On July 7 the "silkwerm
peliey" was disearded as being too slew nd the "whale poliey" adepted
instead, aiming at liquidating the Ghina Incident quickiy by taking
whele China at one gulp. But China's war of resistanee during the
past five years has frustrated all Jepanese plans to an extent they
had not thought possible, and given them a rude cwakening from their
fond dream of finishing China by meens of blitzkrieg.
Japamese methods of politieal aggression have been even more
malieieus. On the basis of the "Control China through China" fermula,
Japan tried to induce China to capitulate through pease effensives,
next ereated "Refermed", "Provisienal" and other leeal puppet organis-
ations with the idea to "divide and rule", to be ultimately combined
tegether, and finally got Wang Ching-wei to organise the puppet
gevernment heping to conelude the China Ineident by winning over
people in occupied China and weakening the foree of Chinese resistanee.
Since the Pacifie War begen many new tricks of pelitieal aggression hava
been reserted to, such as indicated by the slogens: "Emanoipation of
East Asia", "East Asia Alliance", "Sino-Japanese Cooperation", "Indep-
endence of India", etc,. Early victories in the Pacifie Warmre much
publieisod, and "emaneipation of South Seas peoples" was wildly
eelebrated to sreate a peaceful atmosphere and to induce the people
to eppese Britain and Ameriea and favor the Bast Asia Alliance.
Eeenemie aggression has been less evident than either military er
politieal, and mubject to frequent changes that are rather diffioult
to follow.
Befere the present Sino-Japonese War started, Japanese esonomie
aggression was not different from that of the other eapitalist pewers,
regarding China as a quasi-colony to which they may expert commedities
and eapital and from whieh the may impert raw materials. After
September 18, 193l Japan with the eeonomie interests of Manehuria and
Mengelia in her grasp proceeded to demand special positien in Nerth
China. Theugh greatly extended in seope, Japanese economic aggression
still envisaged China as a colony supplying raw materials and buying
manufastured goods. Not umtil the July 7th Ineident did the poliay
of ecenemie aggression undergo a fundamental revision. It was not
enough to find in China a market of mamufactures and supply of raw
materials; Japan must monopolize and control the entire Chinese
eeonomy in line with her Continental Poliey. All the slogans sinee
July 7th, such as "Sino-Japanese Lutual Eeonomieal Suppert", "Esonomie
Ceoperation", "Japan-Manehuria-China Eeonomie Blee", ets., are merely
euphemimma of esonomie conquest. The "Japan-Manehuria-China Reenomic
Bâee" sets apart Japan, Manohuria, Inmer Mongolia and North China as

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
pel areas, and central and south China as sesendary areas in
Sarey amd plunder in South China.
In esoupied areas the Japanese parried out development, dumping,
blesade, eempalsery purahasing, Patiening and ekher measures in
Eapanding Japan-Manehuria-China Preductive Powor", and procseded with
ystematie plunder under the direction of the Liaison Department ef the
Asia Ofriee and the contrel of two National enterprises, the North Chima
Expleitation and Central China Development Corporations. The primeipal
ebjeet of plunder is the natural resourees of oeoupied China, both abeve
and under ground, including material and manpower for the supply and
service of the Japanese forees stationed in China; in other werds, the
objeet is "te maintain warfare by means of warfare". with the changes
in the international situation since the war began Japan had to readjust
her pelicy ef esenomie aggression from time to time. It is convenient
to trase shanges in the peliey through three stages: the first lasting
frem the outbreak of the Sino-Japaness War to that of the European War,
the second from the outbreak of the European War te that of the Pasirie
War, and the third, frem the Pacifio War up to the present.
A. The yirst Stage - July 1937 to Septomber 1939.
This stage was characterized by extensive constructive plans as war
had not yet broken out in Europe and the international environment was
quite normal giving Japan a free hand to carry out economie aggressien
in China. With the object of monopolizing Chinese economy in a shert
time she naturally bent her entire effort to push all kinus of construet-
1on work. Therefore after occupying North and Central China she started
to carry out extensive construotion plans especially for exploiting the
naturul resourees of North China, on the basis of "Plans for Expanding
Japan-Manehuria-Ohina Produetive Power" adopted in 1938, wheroby North
China was assigned the responaibility of produeing the following impert-
ant materials: (1) iron end steel (ineluding struetural steel, east iron,
and iron ore); (2) Coal; (3) Liquid fuel (gasolene and crude oil);
(4) Beda and salt; (5) Wool; (6) Elootrie power.
with the abeve produstion plans as foundation, steps wore also taken
in planning, adjusting and extending facilities in North China for
meney and banking, land and investment, commerce, communications,
ineluding harbers and telegraphs. Evidently during the early period of
the war Japanese had great hopes for the economy of North China.
The above plans were given a serious setback by the outbreak of the
Eurepean War in 1939, some parts becoming impossible of realization or
having to be pestponed. The European War greatly out down Japan's trade
with the ether powers with her supply of development machinery and rew
materials, and she was thrown baek on her own resources. In order to
make the most of her limited amounts of capital and materials, ahe had
to forsake the pelicy of extensive development and to coneentrate on
sertain enterprises. Thus Japanese seonomic aggression entered its
seeend stage.
B. The second Stege - September 1939 to December 1941.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
-20-
Fang this stage Japan sought to aahieve "Japas-Manchuria-Chins
smie Self- Sufricieney" and beceme economically independent of
rope and America. At the same time she endeavored to ostablimn the
Greater Rast Asia Co-Prosperity Zone" with Japan, Manchuria and China
as nualeus and grab hold of the natural resources of the South seas.
Te sarry out the new Concentratior Policy, appropriate division of
predustive enteryrises among Japan, Manohuria and China must be ade.
Ascordingly the Japanese cabinet on Ootober 24, 1940 passed "Prineiples
for Regional Plannins", and later adopted and promulgated "Prineiples
for Distribution of Productive Enterprises in Japan, Manahuria and Chima
drawm up by the Planning Council on the basis of the former prinoiples.
Distribution was to be on the following pattern.
Japan - Munitions, Mechanical and Precision Instruments Industries.
Manchuria - Kleotrical, Maning, Mechanical and Light Industries.
China - Salt and Mining Industries.
Thus Japan was to devote her industrial efforts to munitions,
machinery and precision instruments on the ground that she is the most
advanced of the three countries in industrial develcpment, and is located
at a safe distance from the riske of var. Japan was then to concentrate
her capital, materials and labor ithin the three kinds of industry,
getting her supplies of iron and steel, coal aui coke, licnt und non-
ferrous metals, oleotric pomer, liquid fuels, induetrial salts, ete.
from Manohuria and China. Pollowing the above distribution of produet-
ive enterprises, distribution of capital, udjustment of l bor, control
of trade and other economical policics vcre to procecd in close
coordination. Nence the promulgution or "irinciples for tie conomic
Construotion of Japan, Manohuria and China".
the last set of principles were based upon tie "Fundamental National
Pelioies" promulgated on August 1, 1940 by tae Konoye Cabinet which
contained the principle "to establisl a collective economy comprising
the Greater Last Asia vith Japan-lianchuria-China as one link," and were
passed by the Cabinet as submitted by the Ilannins council. They were
stated to consist of thrce cencrul sets of pluns, viz. (1) eorganize-
tion of National Eoonomy, (2) Strengthening of Jupan-Manchuria-China
Economio Bloe, and (3) Extension of Greater ast Asiatic Co-rrosperity
Zone; and specified fundamontal policies regurding distribution of
productive enterprises, monoy and currenoy, trade and communicutions.
It was specified that the principles vere to be carried out in ten
years beginning with 194l. Therefore they were also called the "Ten-
Yoar Plan for the cononic construotion of Jupum, Lanohuriu und china.
A summary of the lan follous.
The plan aims at creating i self-sufficient economic systom of the
three countries and to expedite the establishment of the Greater ast
Asiatio Co-Prosperity Lone. The objeut of distribution of produotive
enterprises is to develop them in Japan, Manohuriu and hina each
mocording to the suitability of geographioal condition and its actual
stage of develepment, and to transform them into one colleotive body.
Japan's speeial sphere is heavy industries, ohemical industries,
precision industries and mechanioal industries. Light industries will

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
-21-
ted on the continent in prineiple, and thither they will be
lly transplanted. Manehuria will be aided te develep the basis
ans and elestric power industries, and alse heavy and chemieal
ether speeial ereps. Japan is to strive for teehnical improvement and
greater predustivity and to provide Manchuria with teshnical guidance,
while China is te mupply Manahuria with labor. In the realm of money
and eredit an appropriate organ is to be created to distribute eapital
required by predustive onterprises of Japan, Manehuria and China in the
interest of eeenomie national defenco. Trade is to based on predast-
ivim, net on commersialim, she idea being to promote and fasilitate
the flew of materials within Japan, Manahurie and China supplementing
one anether's mupply. Comunications are also to be systematically
readjusted in line with this idea.
The abeve prineiples for realizing self-sufficieney of Japan-üanchuria
-Chins bloe through spesialisation and division of laber and extending
it to the South Seas to form the Greater Asiatic Co-Prosperity Zone
which characterise the second stage of Japanese economie aggression.
0. The Third Stage - December 1942 to the Prement.
This stage was ushered in by the outbreak of the Pacifio War whieh
sut off Japan's supply from other countries and limited it to areas
she had ocoupied or over which she exeroised control. To cope with
this problem she proceeded to carry out the Coneentration Poliey ment-
ioned above, and, in addition, increase trafric with the newly ocoupied
areas. In ocoupied China dumping was superseded by blocade and
cempulsory purehasing, and rationing was intensified to reduce consump-
tion and oxtend control over commodities. The scope of maintaining
warfare by means of warfare was extended; Tojo announced four pertinent
prineiples to be applied to newly occupied areas:
(1) Te safeguard resourees roquired for the prosecution of war;
(2) To prohibit export of raw matorials from South Tacifie Islands;
(3) To insure local supply of the needs of Japanese treops;
(4) To invite the cooperation of organizations operated by foreigners.
It may be seen from the above that Japanese sconomic ggression in
the South Seas follows the line taken in oocupied China. As & matter
of fast, in the so-called Co-Prosperity Zone, the South seas like North
and Central China are a part of the strusture forming the Yen Bloe.
In the carrying out of the Concentration Poliay, Greater Bast Asis
Construetion Board - a most recent creation - at its fifth meeting held
on July 23, 1942 adopted "Fundamental Policies for Mining, Electrieal
and other industries in Greater East Asia", specifying "to utilise the
eollective esonemic strength of Greater Bast Asia and expedite the
establishment of a real national defenee economy" as the primary ebjest

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
Emie construction of Greater East Asia. The policies are in twe
-the first entitled "Prossdure of Gonstrustion" provided
Estruction of preductive enterprisee should preeeed in eccerdancs
Ak fundamental pelieies establimhed for their control and guidanee
An the various areas, and appropriate measure ahould be adopted after
taking inte sensideratien the economic development of the area soneermed
and the sesend entitled "Regional Objeetives of Construction" spesified
objestives for the constituent parts of the Co-Prosperity Zone as
follews:
(1) Japan shall emphasize highly technical industries like presision,
mashinery and munitions industries and endeavor to push their
produetion, und also strive to develop ether heavy industries,
chemieal and mining industries wherever conditions are favorable
at the same time providing for the inerease of eleetrie power
required by these industries.
(2)
Manchuria ahall develop and extend mining and clectric power, and
plan to build up iron and chemical industries within a definite
period of time. She shall slso develop mechunical industries to
meet with the requirements of national defenee, and light industries
to meet with the needs of the population.
(3)
China shall develop mining and salt industries, and specially in
North China promote water conservanay and cleotrie power supply.
She shall plan to build up manufacturing and chemieal industries
whish vitally depend on electric power within a definite peried ef
tims. She shall gradually build up light industries in ooerdination
with, and as a supplement to, developmont of Japanese industries.
(4)
The South Seas shall emphasize mining and petroloum industries fer
the present, and develop industries for processing special produets
and alumimm industry step by step with extensi n of olectrie
power industry. The South Seas shall rehabilitate the existing
light industries and gradually extend them according to the extent
of the available natural resources.
Thus the application of the Conoentration Policy in the Third Stage
is similar to the second with its scope extended to inolude the South
Seas areas.
4. Confllets of Political end Economio Policics.
The Japanese at first adoptod the policy of "controlling puppets
with puppets" causing quarrels among the puppet rogimes to keep them
divided and facilitate liquidation of the China Ineident. When war
beeame prelonged that polioy wus replaced by one which envisaged
strengthening the foree of puppet regimes through their unifieation and
putting it to more offective use as a tool of aggression. Accordingly
the Northern and Southorn puppet regimes were abolished und unified
into the so-called "National Government" and considerably strengthened.
But inasmuch as the Japanese only wanted to make the unified puppet
regime a better tool for aggression, such unification and strengthening
are limited in scope, and politically, economieally as well as
militarily, unifieation is at best nominal. For example,
(1) Politieally North China is under the North China Politioal Com-
missien quite independent of Wang Ching-wei's "National Gevernment."

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.94)
-25-
31
hough Jhing-wel has his "Pease and Censtruetien Aray", it
a under mtrol of the Reform Party and is mustained by the
Japamese Al China Expeditienary Peree.
Wang Chimis economic Power does not extend to cities being
limited bi country and villages only.
areas metfrved to the Military Yen Notes.
Under mesh soxns there is grewing conflist both politisal and
eeemomie amengtpuppets and between them and the Japanese.
DI
A. POLITIGALIOTS
(a)
Wans mand fer Folitigal Independenee. Japan promised
Wangdig-wei political independence merely for the parpese
of fiande with no intention to put it into effeet. Wang
deme it in order to got the suppert of peeple in seoupled
Chips thereby prolong the life of the puppet govermment.
But:lindependenes is impossible as long as Japan adheres
to Pllioies "to control puppets with puppets" and "to
cont hina by means of China".
(b)
1on' one political party, so far he has succeeded only in
ane arty called the "Hsinminhu!" or "New People's Party".
(0)
Wan inited Peage Front". Wans ergarised the so-salled
"Un euse Front" of landownors ond businessmen in the
oeo areas with tho idea of aoting as their spokesman and
usi? im as a lever in making demands on the Japanese. The
lat greed to the organisation of the United Pease Frent
forr it might do to weaken the resistanee of the Chinese
pod while underming Wang' s power of leaderahip by maans
ofpuppets.
B.
ECONONIC LIOTS
(a)
Gorlng Views of "Nationel Capital". The Japanesu sook
"Ni I Capital" from the Chinese of cccupied areas fer the
dey ent of thess areas with the objest "to maintain
wai by means of warfare" in their own selfish end of lay-
imy ssomomie foundation for nis regime and eurrying faver
of eople in eccupied Chins. Of course these conflieting
vi n in no way be resonciled.
(b)
Ge in Gemmedity Centrel. To obtain control of the
se of the escupled areas Wang demanded Japan to remeve
cs, y contrel citing the distress of the peeple it had
eai and put it under him. This Japan abselutely refused
to nd moreever institased all-out control of the esomedy
of ecugled areas of Southeast China to the exelusien of
Wa'regime.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.92)
-24
0
Gantlist about "Natiemal Aaterprises". The two National
Enterprises carporatiens im Nerth and Central Ohins are the
shies ageneies for the sontre) and plunder ef coonemte
resources of China. Wang's demands for their reerganisation
has so far failed to obtain Japanese consent.
(a)
Lantllat abeut Zasterigs undar Military Centrel, Despito
repeated evertures of Vang Ching-wei only very few of the
fasteries under military contrel have been released to their
ewmers, and tese have been put under jeint Sine-Japemese
centrel. Any ehange effested was only neminal.
(0)
Genfllst betvgan Gantral Reserve Bank and Hilitary Metes.
Wang had heped to eiroulate his Central Reserve Banksetes im
entire oeccupied China and thus seeure foundation for a
money and banking system and finansial fasilities. But Japem
restristed their ciroulution to the eccupled areas of Kiangma
Chekiang and Anhwei, and though it has reeently been extended
to muhan and Kwangtung, the emount involved is comparatively
small. At the same time the Japanese strengthened the
military notes to check growth of banknote eireulatien.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.94)
-25-
I. Puppet Pelitieal Organizations
1. Tranafermation of Puppet Pelitical organinations
A. General Remarks
Whem Peiping end Tientsin fell in succession after war breke sut en
Jaly 7, 1937 the invaders wtilised Chinese traiters te organise "Leeal
Pesse Maintenanee Sosieties" in the twe cities and a "Peking-Tientain
Jeâat Pease Maintenanee Sesiety" whieh was fermed at Tientain en
decided to establish a puppet government in North China. Aecerdingly
em Desember 14 & "Provisional Gevernment ef the Chinese Repablie" was
established at Peiping ineorperating "East Hepei Antt-Gemsenist
Axtemomous Government" and abelishing the losal and joint Pease
Kaintenanee Sesieties of Peiping and Tientsin. Munieipal Governments
were erganised in the two cities, and Provineial Gevernments in Hepei,
Shantung, Shansi, Henan and other provinees to supersede previous
eemsissions. The system of previneial and loeal administration in use
befere the Nerthern Expedition (of the Nationalist Army) was adopted
with elassifisation into tag (distriet), munieipality and haien (eounty).
By this time "Manking Peace Maintenance Sesiety* had been erganised and
a mevement had been started to obtain "New Pelitieal Rights". When
Ankwei, Kiangsu and Chekiang were eccupied the Nanking Pease Maintenanse
Sesiety was reerganised into "Reform Government of the Chinese Republie"
(Marsh 18, 193s), and Pease Maintenance Sesieties of the three previnees
were ene after another reorgenised inte Provineial Gevernments adepting
the same system as North China. Nanking and Shanghai were made Spesial
Munisipalities under the direet jurisdietion of the "Executive Yuam".
Japam wanted to sombine the two gevernments ef Peiping and Nanking to
form a "formal unified government". After consultation of the twe
groups of puppets, the "United Commission of the Gevernment of the
Chinese Republie" was formed in September 1938. As to Inner Mengelia,
Japen wanted to keep it entirely separate on account of its spesial
pesitien, and on Beptember 1, 1939 reorganised the "United Mongelian
Gemmissien" inte the "Mengelian United Autonomous Government" en a
system quite different frem Peiping and Nanking ergenisations. With
the appearanee ef Wang Ching-wei on the stage, the "Reform Gevermment"
was disselved and the "Central Goverament" established at Nanking.
While the "Previsional Gevernment" was transformed into the "Nerth
China Pelitieal Cemmissien", the "Mengelian United Axtenemeus Geverament"
kept its independent status in aeserdanee with ths previsien ef spesial
pesitien ef Nerth China and Mengella stipulated in the seeret agreement
between Wang and Japan.
In view of the fast that Japanese military aggression begen in

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.93)
- 25 -
da in 1931, the following summaries of puppet orgamisations
After the Mukden Ineident Japan immediately set abeut to skange the
pelitieal strusture of the three Northeasterm provinees. The traiter
Taan Chin-kan was given the job of loeal pesoe maintenance, and the
the se-ealled Tientsin Inaident - to put up the fares of visiting his
meestral tembs at Mukden.
Fighting breike out in Shanghai on  anmary 28, 1932 and while the
syes of the werld were turned toward this metropelis. the "Kanehsrie
Fational Assembly" was called on Februxry 17, 1932 attended by a few
seeres ef traiters like Hsi Chia and Chang Ching-hui. The repuklieam
form ef govermment was sdepted and the head was to be kmeme as the
"Chief Ezesutive". On Mareh 19 Pu-yi, Cheng Hsiao-hsa and ther
pappets participated in a eeremony celebrating the "feunding of
üamehakse", ond the year was given the name "First Year of Tatung".
On Jaly 23 the Japanese adopted "Prineiples for the unifiestion of
organisations stationed in Manehuria", and on September 15 signed the
Japan-Manahmkue Protocel stipulating that pending conelusien of a new
treaty all existing agreements between Chins and Japan would still be
valid shether conoerning governments or pskvate parties, and that
Japen might station troops in Manohukuo for the common defance of the
two esmntries. In Mareh 1933 the "Constitution Study Cemmission" was
establisbed to draft a constitution to pave the way for reinatating
Pu-y¹ as emperor. On Mareh 1, 1934 Pu-yi was duly erowned Emperer ef
Hameharia and the year was called the First Year of Kangte. The
resurrestion of monarahy had two objests: first, to court the
allegimnee ef Mongolian princes by means of traditienal formality ef
imperial confirmation of their titles; and the second, to invede Chima
Preper elaiming redemption of the country for the emperor. The four
Northeastern previnees of Linoning, Kirin, Heilungkiang and Jekel were
redivided inte fourteen provinees named Fengtien. Kirin, Langkiang,
Jehel, Pingkiang, Chinehow, Antung, Chientss, Bankiang, Heihe, Tungima,
Heatankiang, Tungan, Peisn; while Hsingan Distriet ( of the Barge and
Jerim League Mongols) was split into four more named Hsingan Rust.
Hsingan South, Hsingan West and Haingan North. Lukden and Harkim were
made Special Mumicipelities. The above change in administrative areas
was mede to correspond with the aystem adopted in Korea and Fermesa
and fasilitate their control for the Japanese overlord.
0. Honspli an Unl ted Automomous Gorermment
Pellowing the penetration of Japanese power into Chahar, Suiyuam and
Nerth Shansi, autonemous governments were set up at Kalgam, Kueisui and
Tatang and soortinated under the "United Hengelian Commiselem". On
At presont the Mongeliam flag flies cver the abeve areas and
ehremelegy is based on the cerenation of Genghis Kham. The peppet

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.95)
-17-
Laster somprises two Givil Administrations (Sesth Chakar cnd Merth
departments - General Affairs, Civil Affairs, Police, Justiee, Pinames,
Produstion and Comunications.
D. Herth China Polltical Carmisaien
When Peking-Tientsin Joint Peace Maintenance Society was disselved
and the "Provisiomal Govermment of the Chinese Republic" was installed
at reiping en Deeember 14, 1937 with Zang Ko-ming es the head puppet,
it exeraised jurisdietion over the five provinees: Hepei, Chahar,
Suiyuan, Henen and Shantung. Wang Ko-wing had coneladed a seeret
agreement with Japan givins her complete eentrol over military,
administrative and edueational affairs as well as mining, comanieatioms
water and electrieity, forestry and all other ecenomie enterprises.
The muburbs of Peiping end twenty-two haiens of East Hepei were
designated fer settlement by Japanese immigrants, and eandidates fer
empleyment in the puppet government wust undergo examination by the
Japanese. According to orgenic principles promulgated on Jammary 1.
1938, Legialative, Executive and Judicial Commissions were established
to exereise the threo powers, eaeh with its chairman, members and
standing committee. Under the Executive Comission are the Seeretariat
and Departments of Administration, Polics, Education and Culture, Ways
and Means and Relief. Under the Judieial Commissdon are the Sesretar-
iat and Supreme Court. In spite of the elaborate organixation, real
pewers rest in the hands of Japanese advisors. Moreover confliet
with "East Hepei Anti-Commaunist Autonomous Government was frequent until
Jammaxy 27, 1938 when it was morged under the mupervision of Kita.
with the establishmant of Wang Ching-wei's regime, the Provimdonal
Gevernment was transformed into "Herth China Pelitieal Cesmismien"
under the terms of his seoret treaty with Japen, and Wang I-tang
beeome its ohairmen.
E. The Pappet Central Government
The "Referm Goverrment of the Chinese Republie" was formed Mareh 1s,
1958 with Liang Hung-ahih as figurehead and Kiangsu, Chekiang and
Anhwei as its phere of jurisdietion. The presidents and viee-presidents
of Exeeutive, Legialative and Judisial Yuans and ministers ef variens
mimistries eonatitate the "Administrative Cemsdttee". The Ereestive
Interier, Pasifieation, Pinanee, Edusation, Indastry and Cemmmieatioms.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
-28-
Mmtration and the Adainistrative Court to judge diferemees be-
anmemnoed its three prinalples to be (1) anst-comaumim, (2) abeolute
mom-resegnitiem of the National Gevernment, end (3) maintenanee ef
Intimate relations with Japan, and issued a manifesto of its "Pelisieal
Primeiples". At the same time pressure on the peeple of war areas
was inereasingly oppressive under regulations for "punishment of
bandits" and *registration of population aecording to Pao and shls
in pacificatien areas" successively promilgated by the Ministry of
Pacification. The latter end the Winistry of Interior jointly ealled
a "Pasification Conference" at Shanghai in September 1938 betraying
their failure of earrying out pacification measures. There was
constant friotion between this puppet government and the "Provisiemal
Government" of North China, and efforts of the Japanese for unifieat-
ion were unsuccessful until their dissolution brought about by the
seeret agreement between Japan nd Wang Ching-wei. When Wang fled
from Free China and started the "Nsw Central Government" mevement
under the directien of Eisa, the Jupanese intensified their astivity
for unifieation, and unuerwrote with Wang the "Prinaiples for
Readjustment of Sino-Japanese Relations" in December 1959. Finally
under the sipervision of Nishio the puppet "Central Govermment" eame
into being at Nanking on Maroh 30, 1940. Actually 1t 1s cnly an
enlarged veraion of "Reform Goverment" with no power over the Nerth
China puppets, not to mention those of lHanohurie and Hongolia. A
peculiar feature of the "Central Government" is close imitation of
the National Government in the adoption of the Threo People'
Prinoiples, in the organization and in the fleg, the seme White Sun,
Blue Sky and Rod Ground, but with a triangular yellow penant attached
containing four Chinese characters meaning Peace and Anti-Comunim.
The treitors knew the National Covernment was growing in prestige
and the people would not accept anything different from the Three
Peeple's Prinoiples. Hemoe the bare-faced imitation unequalled by
any quisling. In his "Return to Capital" deolaration on Mareh 30,
realisation of peaco and adoption of a constitution were emphasised
as his objeots, but his brand of peace amounts to mrrender and his
constitution means rallying all the puppets together for the suppert
of Japanese opposition against the National Gevernment. His "Pelitieal
prineiples" and "economie policies" are but to implement the previsiems
of his sesret treaty with the Japanese for the satisfuction of their
neods.
2. Malicious Political Moves
As already mentioned the formila "to contrel China by means of
China" used to push political aggression means to enalave the peeple
by meens ef Chimese traiters as agents or teols. There can be me
polities te speat of in puppet governments, whieh only serve to earry
out political plets of the Japanese. After several years of Chinese

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.95)
- 19 -
 Mamdred Years? Far", "Long Term Constrmctien", "Freeme
arees beßng vest in extent while Japanese treops limited in mmber,
this wish eanmet be fulfilled without the aasistance of peliee and
military ferees mustered through puppet organisations. Stepe takem te
arder" in Merth China, and "Pacifieation Movemeat" in Central Chima,
and reesiwe eoneentrated attention of Japenese end puppet conspiraters,
other pelitical astivities being merely side-shows.
A. Mevement to Strengthen Peace and Order in North China
Under the leaderahip of the Hsinminhui or Now People's Party this
movement wes launebed on four occssions up to the Spring of 1942 with
the ebjeet of uprooting military foroe of the guerillas and pelitieal
astivity of the cemunists, and economically tightening the bleeade
and intemsifying plunder of materials. On the last ecsasion, twe
impertant plans were adopted for local administration:
I. The plan fer strengthening the fundamental administrative unit -
the village consisted of four items, vis. -
l. The exissing "neighborhood" system to be repleced by "pae-chia"
ystem; eash tuo to establish a training institute for pee and
shis leaders.
Villages to form mutual protection chains.
small villages to be merged into big ones, the heads ofwhish
are to have close liaison with the puppet magistrates. The
merger is effected by order, by military foroe or by the method
of assessment. Sinoce the amount of assessment is uniform for
big and mmall villeges, the latter are indueed to move inte
bigger villages. Thus the activity of guerillas and patrietie
workers is rendered diffioult while Japanese control of land is
more easily centralized. Besides there ure "united villages"
and "village groups" having the same object of eliminating the
mallvillege.
4. The establishment of "Anti-Communist Model Villages".
II. The plen to destrey sommmism consists in arresting @ munists.
raiding their headquarters, offering indusements for their
surrender, and making threats against their families.
Under this movement, the following measures have been applied:
I. Qumkessive Taxation -- The people of North China have been
squeesed dry by a miltitude of taxes. It has been estimated that
eash bleek of about a desen families peys absut $1l00 Federal
Reserve eurreney and 3l00 catties of grain every year in taxes and
sl000 per menth in entertainment expenses, or about at the average
of se0 per capita per year. According to a report in the Shamsi-
Chahar-Hepe! Daily News, abeut 120 kinds ef taxes are eelleeted in
Laiyuen, Hepel, the fellewing being the more impertamt emes:

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
-20-
Famm tax - $4 per mow per year as a minimm.
Tobeeso and wine tax - $20-$50 per shop.
Lávestosk tax - 20% ed valorem.
Elestricity tax - $3 per household.
Car lieense - $10 per season.
Bateher lieense - $2 per head of pig, $1 per head of lamb.
7.
Harriage tax - $8 per couple.
8.
Cat and Deg license - $0.80-$1.00 per season.
9. Reom and Well tax - 85 per room or well.
10. Restaurant tax - $0.06 per meal.
11. House Number tax - $0.40 3 or 4 times per month.
12. Identirieation Card - $1 per month.
15. Po11 tax - 80.20 per month.
II. Plunder ef Jeedstuffs- In Hopei and shansi when wheat was
harvested in the fall the people lost a large amount of grain
through plunder. First the people were fed false propaganda
seying that the Communist 3th Route Army had little food of their
own and was going to rob them of their harvest. Next the haien
magistrates were ordered to call meetings of village leaders in
different places, where Japanese officers explained the sigmtfie-
ance of the "Movement to Strengthen Peace and Order", and ennouneed
the following mensures:
1. Peeple should report the time of harvest, so that Japanese
troops could be sent for protection.
2.- of the whest harvested 30% should be sent to the eity for
custody, from which reguisition might be made from time to
time when noeded.
3.
District granaries should be built and managed by people
elected at the meetings (who have already boen appointed, as
& matter of fact, by the Jepanese).
Each villege wcs compelled to seli l0-20 plouls of wheat at
a fixed price of e13.50, or less if the quality is belew
standard.
5.
Wheut could not be sold in the murket, but must be sold only
to the distriot granary at the officially fixed priec. Any
violation would be severely punished, or the grain conficeated.
People were urged to get the wheat threahed and sent to points
of oustody as soon as possible, and to fill in and mubmit
wheat harvest report blanks within given time limits mubjeet to
heavy fines for failure to do so.
III. Eoonemis Blesade - The method used to tighten blocade of points
of ocoupation was to establiah a vigilance sone ten li deep around
eash point and to regard areas beyend the zone as "bandit areas".
Inhabitants of bandit areas were forbidden to enter, and sommodit-
1es to leave the vigilance zons. Three "bandit suppression somes"
eaeh ten li deep were dramm outside the vigilance zone. In the
first sone small "peeifieation squads" carried on propaganda,
ceonemie plunder and intelligence work, organised self-defenes
cerps and extended pelitieal control. The seeond sene was patrelled
by small bedies of treeps bemed on advanee pests with spesial

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
-21-
ght atteeks and lightaing raids were resorted to and the "Tziple
sleas-up Peliey" was ruthlessly earried out. i.s. aleen-up by means
of masseere, plunder and incendiarism.
B. Pasifieation Movement in Central China
The Pacification Movemsnt sponsored by Weng Ching-vei aims te extend
Japanese contrel of strategie cities end comuniestion lines to the
Vast mural hinterland. Begun in July l941, it was ut first confined to
Kiangsu provinee south of the Yangtse, and gradually extended te West
Chekiang. The motives, maehinezy and tactios of this movement will be
deseribed belew.
I. Hotyes
I. In sponsoring this movement wang hoped to unify all the pappet
organisations end to centralize the power within his politieal
party. It met with Japanese acceptanoe because they wanted
someove to share their burden of the "China Ineident" end heped
Wang's regime would develop wore power to help them combat
National China and digest the Gocupied areas enabling them to
resorve their strength to deal with Britain and Ameriea.
2.
The movement was firat directed to Kiangsu and Chekiang
becanse Wang wished to teiabliah there his "foundation of peaed
and baild up his preatige ond strength of his owm regime. The-
refore while Froe Chinase military, financial, economie,
oducational and cultural establimiments formed the objeet of
attack, influence of other puppet organizations and autherity
of the Japanese were uot oxempt. it can be foreseen there will
be growing confliet betwoen puppet groups and also between
them and the Japanese.
了.
The movement was ourried out in only a few hsiens at one time
and gradually extended according to a time sonedule.
During the movement coordinated attack was made on all fronts,
military, politioal, cconomic, educational and oultural.
5.
While attacking the guerillas, demands were made on the
Japanese to centralize command in the  naification Mmchinery
and to assign the auxiliary status to Japanese troops. At the
same time it was emphasised that pacification could not be
entrusted to troops alone and that police foree and self-
defenee of the people must be enlisted. By thie means Wang
hoped to train gendarmes and self-defence corps and build up
his military strongth.
6.
Politieal power of Vang's regime wus to be built up through
the organization of pacification machinery, fundemental
administrative units of pag und phia, unificution of puppet
organizations, intelligence work among the people and varieus
goverment offices and extensive enrolment of members of his
party.
7.
On the economie side, the Japanese were ssked to be less
striet in enforeing commodity coutrol, to readjust the jeimt
enterprises and to restriet the siroulation of military yen

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.89)
-22-
e. Againet the National Government, Wang's rogime used all inds
meane to break its counter-bloskade and prohibit ths use of national
arreney, cnd endenvored to develop cooperatives and other economie
organisations in order to control the economie activity of the peeple
in occupied China. Every effort was made to establish the Central
Reserve Bankmotes in cirouletion. Taxat on mas to be unified in the
"pecificntion aroes" to form the finonciel found tion of the regime.
In short, one'e motive Sor mis mlcout  eifier sion movement wae to
secure mbsolute control or c uil  r, polivie i, ccomordo, cducntional
and culturel rrrlro withar le po ceatd nodel" rerim.
II. Pacification lMachinery
The machinery of the pacifioation movement h s the following ramifie-
ations:
1. Exegutive Organ - The his est executive orgn is the "rucification
Commission" possesainc povers "to er ct levs und promulgate orders
relotive to military nd politieal mirsire of the prcification
areas". Wang Ching-wei is the choiimur, n. Li-ssu-chwn, seeratary
general of the commission. Under the commission is the "Sooohow
Offige of the Pacific tion Jommission" whioh directs nnd supervises
1ts work in the areas sout. of the Yi ngtze divided cmong "Distriet
Pecificntion Inspeotorcten" c ch: taking crre of severel hsiens
under the ndministretion ol "svecial Mugistr cies" reorganized from,
end taking the lace or foruer vuppet hsien covertwents. 1i Sou-
chun aots concurrently s the director of the voochow Office.
Finally euch specitl Lusistr cy ls diviued into "self-governing"
units oi siar. hen, Yo  hi...
2.
Police ind self sefence Orans There is uncer the Jirect juria-
diotion uf the racification osmdsuion  "Fucificction rolice Force"
of unlonown strength vitn units uistributed in v rioss hslens, whiah
Wong rugurds us one or lls own uilltary organizstions. Jaoh Distrio
lso s s lice  end o ch ei1istre it self
Dufence cope wi  n n ci si or chen. n 
company in euch poe vit. men ur ftoe from overy chia.
3.
Blooude urstn - loo u bi re rued s sne of tso most important
nothods of pacifie slo., it  s beer untrustod to a spccial
depurtment of the : acifietion comuission c lled the Blocede
Headquarters" and looal he dqu rtere at cnch hsier vith the Special
Magistrute ucting concurrently s chief. In dditin inspection
points have beon cstablished ut importart conters long the line
of blocude.
4。
Econonic urguns - Amns tne verious cconomie, finncil d money
organs connected vit. the vork of puciric tion te mre important
are (i) tho "Hconode lmine colttee" of the cifie tion
Commlssion whioh pl ms ccunomle constructier in consultcation with
the Jupanoso; (2) "Rovouue Adainistration of the irst istriot"
und "Rovenue Inspectur te of t.o First istrict" which collects
land cnd businees taxes of the district und prevents suucsling
(3) locnl collection bure u in ti s oci 1 m  1s r cies) end (4)
"Local Jonstruction Bank" nss i. proparation unler the "Spochow
Office of the acifie tion Jomsi ssion".
In addition to the above there re othore such as the orgn to promote

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.95)
movement", training institute for self-government perseunel,
Paniflestion Testion
The fundemental taeties of pesification warfare consist of the
1. Pasification Progrem - Wang designated ten hsiens of "East
Aagnam Mstrist", vis. Chinkiang, Tanyang, Changabow, Kiangyin
and the triangular area within Seoohew, Kunshan and Hape as the
"Medel Pasification Area" to be dealt with first. Pasifieation
was mest to be extended to the triengle formed by Changaim.
Kiangyin and Wusih. This eourse of aetion was dietated by the
limited military strength at Wang's disposal, and the desire te
preeeed gradually ty sure and theroughgsing steps.
2.
eakade - The area under pacification was to be put under air-
tight blockade. For example, an elsctrified barbed wire femse,
4 feet high and 20 metres deep was mounted on bambeo and weeden
posts extending from Fushan Chen of Changshu to Sooshew via
Hapa, Pushise, Taitsang and Kunshan. Also a movable fenee made
of bamboo was ereeted from Fushan chen to Changshu City and
Secehos. Inspeetion Posts were established at ferry peints and
reed and waterway crossings on the line of bleeade with the
"Bleskade Squad" in charge - men who have reosived a shert per-
iod of spesial training. The objest of bleekade is to imelate
the pacirieation area politically and economically so as to
wipe out all vestige of Nationalist rule and prepare it for
fimal "digestion".
3.
Subiugation by Pelitics - Wang' & s pecial slogan for pasification
movement was to subjugate "by politics 70%, by military foree 30%
The politieal methods inolude (1) inducing the peeple to grad-
ually lese their national consclousmess and become willing
subjeets, and (2) bribing property owners, corrupt leaders,
village hangers-on and rascals to do the puppets' bidding by
means of money or offices.
Sesret Servige - Among the "Prineiples of Pacifieation" was the
provision: "The polico and self-defence organizations must be
built and the secret service strengthened so that seorst
military organizations of the enemy may be exeluded frem the
pesifieation area, and its inhabitants completely isolated frem
their influenes." As the patriotie guerillas are confined to
searet estivities, the puppets have to rely largely on the
seeret serviee to fight both. The latter has sent agents to
mingle with the guerilles and other enendes and has also plased
them in all ploses and organisations.
3. Puppet Civie Groups
Varieus kinds ef civie organisations have been prometed by pappets
im different plases, all with the objest of ceaxing the peeple te
obey their bidding. They may be divided into seven eategories:

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.96)
- 24-
The puppets realise the attachment of the Chimese peeple te the
with his brand of imitation, a substitute was offered, after the
fall of Peiping in 1937, in the "New People's Prineiples", a
senecstion of the traitor Mimo Ping, by the "New Peeple's Party"
or Hsinminhui, organised by him and Sung Chieh with headquarters
im Peiping and various grades of local branches. Besides earxy-
ing en trecsherous propaganda the party is suppesed te be
grasting leans to aid spring planting and runming a eiroalating
elinie. Young peeple in employment have been erganised inte
"Youth Cerps", and pupils in middle and primary sebeols iste
"Papils Cerps". Ancestral and idel worship has been eneeuraged.
The party had only 2000 members, mostly good-for-nothing.
2.
In erder to exploit manpower in occupied Southeastern China to
build up the puppet military foroe the prinsiple was adopted:
"to organise the village youth by appealing to their love for
native soil for the purpose of rural reconstruetion and impreve-
ment, prevention of the infiltration of communistie ideas,
promotion of the spirit of self-government and self-defense and
strengthen the government". Accordingly "the Anti-Communim
Youth Corps" was organized under the Winistry of Interior and
direet supervision of the Japanese Special Servics officials.
with headquarters and the "Anti-Communism Corps Training Instit-
ute" in Nanking and subsidiaries in the provinees. Young men in
the villages between 10 and 25 years of age were ordered to join
the corps. The estimated totul of a million and half after
training would constitute a good souree of supply for reeruits.
This has already been acomplished in Kiangsu, Chekiang and
Anhwai, and if permitted to proceed unmelested, would be a big
threat against Free China eventually. A similar organisation
exists in Suiyuan under the name "Patriotie Yeuth Cerps".
In view of the power of the so-oalled Red and Blue Lodges ameng
the middle and lower classes of people in Wuhan distriets, the
puppets put up the "Chenyihui" (Righteousness Sosiety) in Hankew
with the objeot of winning them over, and established branehes
in the provinoes and municipalities, or in their owm words,
"with the object, for the love of the country and mociety, to
cooperate with Japan in planning for permenent peace in Rast
Amia, to build up a new order in China, to encourage righteous-
mess and to oultivate healthy customs among the people". The
seeiety already boasts a membership of hundreds of thousands,
and has sent agents to Free Chins to spy, assassinate and des-
troy, and to enlist bandits and induce people to return and work
in the scoupied areas.
"Women's Anti-Communist Assosiation" was organized in cecupied
China "te abolish comsmistic ideas, to unite women of East Asia,
to realise Sino-Japanese emity and te build pease in East Asia".
The work of the assealation inolude house-to-house visits to

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.94)
 25
was reerganised in July 1932 into the "Union Society" (Hsiehhehmi
with the premier of Hanchuiue as president and headquarters at
Hsinking and branebes in provinees, manieipalities and hsiens.
Its members, alleged to be l00, 000 strong are compesed of riff-
6. In Central China the cerresponding organization salled "Tamimhai"
(Great People's sodlety) was effected under the suspices of the
Japenese Special Serviee in Shanghai on July 15, 1958 to hypne-
tise people in rural Kiangsu, Chekieng and Anhwei. The member-
ship is said te mumber six or seven thousand. The general
headquarters has the General and Supervisory Departments and the
Central and Expert Committees. A "Main Branch" is established
for several hsiens oontrolling a mumber of "branohes", eash with
three seetions - General Affairs, Organization ond Propaganda.
7. When Wang Ching-wei jeined the puppets, he knew it would be
impessible to alienate the people from their belief in Three
Peeple's Prineiples, and so he tried to give them a disterted
versien of them and publicised his political platform. He
erganized his "ersats" Kuomintang to impose on the peeple.
Among other eivic organizations of the puppets are the "Sesialist
Party" of traitor Xiang Kang-hu, "Youths' Party", "National Socialist
Party", all kinds of labor unions, chambers of commerce, student
assoeiations, "Anching Brotherhood, "South China Cultural Unien",
"Far East Cireulating Corps". "Tientao Anti-Communiem National Selvat-
1em Sesiety", "Amy1 Respsst-the-Aged Society". "Society for Pease and
Batiemal Salvation", "Chunghua sciencs and Religion Assosiation".
"Chinese Yeuth Corps". "New Kuemintang", "Central Chins Young People"s
Assseiatien", "Chunghua Moral and Benevglent Soslety", "Asiatie
"Uniom Sosiety", "Hanehuria Seciety", "Rieh and Poor Latual Help
Seciety", end "Partizan Training Classes" in dirferent previmees.
4. Puppet Edusatiemal Poliey
To undermime the sultaral foundatien of eceupied China, dispel the
matienal eenssiousness and spirit of resistanee of the younger gener-
atiem, the felleming measures have been weed in carrying out the
peliey of "enalavtment edueatiem".

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
-26-
mien af Textbeake - The textbooks used in all grades of
aakeols were exemimed and eny pert of the contents that might
remind the pupil of his country and his people was deleted.
Unity of China, Japan and Msnahuria was emphasised, and Britain,
America, UssR and other powers were abused. Especially have the
history and geography textbooks been distorted, and of course
the four Nertheastern provinees appear as Manchukuo in the maps.
2.
Hemmml Traiming - In order to carry out "enslavement edueation"
It is necessary to "ensleve" the teachers first. Hence "Teachers
Traiming Classes" were established at Hsinking, Peiping, Nenking
and ether centers, where school tenchers have been sent to
reesive training by turn, and a certain number of teachers of
Japanese language have been selected every year.
3.
Establishment of Sohools - To implement the polioy, at least 30
universities, 200 middle schools and 1500 primary sahools have
been.established with a totul of 5000 teachers and 250,000 students.
Japsnese Language Sohools - Besides mckins Japanese e required
subjeet in all the schools, the Japaneme have establiahed many
Japanese language schools in all principal cities in Manohuria,
Borth, Central and South China.
5.
Japaneee Teachers - The Japanese Ministry of Education has sent
over l000 middle and primary sohool teachers to teach in China,
and has furthermere organized the "Asia Youth Labor Corps" and
the "Asia Patriotic Service Youth Corps" to push "enalavement
edueation" in China.
6.
Exehange of Visiting Groups - The Japanese have welcomed puppets
to bring groups of young people to receive training in Japan, and
also sent parties of Japonese men and women to visit China.
5. Proposed Counter Measures
Like antidotes against poisons proper counter meusures should be
taken to cope with the various methods of political aggression.
1. Against the pacification movement seeking to trenaform points
and lines in enemy occupation into planes and then digest them,
the National Government adopted such methods as strengthening
the provineial governments in occupied areas, giving more
authority to hsien magistrates in these ereus, organization of
"War Areas Party and Political Committees", etc. In.future,
attention should be centered on the strengthening of the
guerilla forces and the winning over of puppet troops.
2.
Agminst the publieity campaigns to induce the peeple to lose
their national consciousness and become willing slaves, the
Govermment establ:shed in the provinces "Basic Staff Training
Institutes" and Political Units" among the troops. In future
propeganda war must be linked with guerille warfare, and seeret
propaganda must be extended in the occupled areas to urge the
people to observe "the eitisen's wovenant".
3.
The enemy has used all kinds of means to create dissension
among the united resistanee front and thus weaken its foree. The
nation must be aroused to unite its effort against the enemy in

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
-27-
Gesordance with the slogans "Nation above All" and "Vietory First"
As a modern war is en all-out end everybody's warp the entire
manpewer, material and financial power must be mobilised to win
the final vietory. In the past military effort has not been
preperly coordinated with the other aspests of mobilizatien. No
time is to be lost to realize full, efficient and perfectly
coordinated mobilization.
Chapter III. Puppet Eeonony
1. Tastios of Economio Warfare
In modern warfare on all fronts - manpower, materials and finance,
final viotory belongs to the vide possessing greater economic strength.
Hence ahe all-important role played by eoonomic warfare in modern wars.
The object of economio warfare is to utilize the economio strength of
the eountry, and as far as possible also that of the enemy, to strength-
en its striking power or weaken the enemy's. Therefore at present
military end economic warfare are insepcrable, and economic warfare has
its strategy and tactics just like military warfare.
War strength is built on material resources. It is the sim of
eeonomic warfare to inorease one's supply of material resourees or,
what emounts t the same thing, cut down the enemy's supply. This is
the fundamental strateg of economic warfare and has been desoribed in
the paragraphs on the polioy "to maintain warfare by meens of warfare".
As to the taeties of economic wurfare the following table gives a
summarized account, fron the Japanese or puppet point of view.
TACTIOS OF ECONOMIC ARFARE
REMARKS
1. Direet plunder of commodities in occupied ure s
Object positive
2. Indirect
-- increase own
through ex loitation of netural resources)
supply.
3. Money
Control in occupied arees
Object both
4. Trade
positive and
5. Commanications " "
negative.
6. Finance
7. Blocade of enemy territory
Object negative
8. Rationing of commodities in cccupied areas --
— decrease
(a) to reduce consumption in these areas and
enemy's supply.
(b) to prevent the flow of surplus into enemy
territory.
All the above taetics have been exhaustively applied in the course
of Japanese economic aggression. Changes in tactics to meet changes
in the envirenmest will next be traced.
Buring the five years of hestilities in China Japan has carried on

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
- 20 -
mer of econemie aggression depending on the economie condition
1. At tirst Japan was after the Chinese banknotes with whish to buy
fereiga exehangs, but later she uscd the notas for purohase of
materials inte Free China after Japenese deposits abroad were frezen;
and (3) after eversees supply lines were completely cut off, bloekade
was muaceeded by plunder and purahase of commodities in Free China.
2. Tasties of Plunder
1. Direet Plunder
a. The objeot of plunder is twofold: first, the commodities in
the occupied arees are foraged to mupply the consumption and
use of the Japanese troops and second, natural resources of
these areas are exploited to mupply Jp anese needs.
Direst plunder of commodities has been carried out by military,
politieal or econogic methods.
i. wlitary plunder may take the form of forage, assessment
or protection.
11. Political mothod of lunder consists of first, registrat-
ion and freezing of certain commoditios and second,
purshase at an arbitrary price of confiscation.
121.
Beonemic methods comprise: First, purohase through
sooperatives; Second, storage of farm products in ware-
houses; Third, purchase by offering high priees; Fourth,
purshase by paying in dvance; Fifth, purohase through
special committees or exchanges.
Commodities plundered are all-inolusive runging from mashinery
and minprals to livestock. Generally in North China minerals
and foodstuff top the list; in Central Ohina, specialities
like malk of Chekiang, tea of Kiangsi and Anhwei and wood-oll
of Kiangsi and Hupeh; and in South Chine, grain, wolfram
and sea food of Pukien and Kwangtung.
d.
Wilitary plunder in the hands of Japanese and puppet troeps
leaves a wake of desolation wherever they go. Political
agents of plunder are the local puppet organimatione which
buy or cenfiscate food for the Japanese. Roonomie agents
consist ef cooperatives and Japanese and puppet cerporations.
Ceoperatives have been widely extended in North and Central
China. In South China where the occupied arees ere limited
in seope and practisally confined to constal regions many
corperatiens haye been formed for the purpose of smuggling.
smsh as the Teyptan and Kincheng Companies of Canten and
Liemehang Ce. of Masso. The latter have been shipping
Japanese yarn to Tuhu and Kwanehowwan and buying wood-oll and

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.96)
- 29-
Wolfram for the enemy. The Shewa Tsusho Trading Ce. establish-
ed by the former premier Koneye before the Pacifie War with
branehes at all important ports of the world to impert
materials needed in Japan has a branch in Canton and establish-
ed another in Kwangohowwan in August 1942.
List of Japanesc and Puppet Firas Engaged in Smuggling
NAME OF FIRÁ
LOCATION
TRAFFIC
MANAGER
Chnoyun Co.
Hongkong, Swatow
Import yarn, fortil-
Wu Tish-tam
1zer, drugs; export
Sun Chia-sd
wood-oil & wolfraa.
Sanho Co.
Puting, Fukien
Import: Yarn, cloth,
Tsai Kung
wool, salt, matches
(Formosan)
& cigarettes;
Export: Rice, oil,
alum & grain.
Hongkong, Maso,
Kwangtung, Swatow
Import & Export Corp.
Hongkong Trading &
Distributing Committee
Showa.Trading Co. Kwangohowon
EBort: wood-oil,
Lu Chung-
(Branch)
welfram, etc.
yuan,
Hsun Lueh
Lienehang Co.
ao
Import: Yarn
Yamaguchi
Export: Wolfrum, wood-
oil.
Mitsui & Co.
Kwangohowwan
Export: Wood-oil,
Matsuki
minerals.
Manwa & Co.
Export: Wood-oil,
Kife
minerals.
Iwai Trading Co.
Export: Wood-oil,
Kita
minerals.
Hitsubishi & Co.
Export: Homp, bamboo, Sazakd
wood.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
-30-
ghsing Co.
Kwangehewwan
Shipping
Japanese
fsin Hsing Co.
Export: Antimony, Nakada
wood-oil.
River Transport Co.
Shipping
Japanese
2. Exploitation
While direet plunder is effeetive only once for all, indireet
plunder in the form of exploitation of natural resources in the
cesupied areas is a permanent souroe of supplies to the enemy and is
therefore a more malignant method of plunder. This work is entrusted
to the Nerth China Exploitation Corporation and Central China
Develepment Corporation, both under the Bureau of Eeonomics of the
Asia Office.
Berth China Exploitation Corporatiop - This corporation was founded
on November 7, 1938 in accordance with a resolution of the 72nd Diet
with head office in Tokyo and a branch in Peiping where the activities
have come to be centred for convenience in directing economie
enterprises in North China and Mongolia. The organization consists of
eight departments, viz. General Affairs, Agenoy, Coal, Mining,
Eleetricity, Real Est. te, Communications and Commodity Adjustment.
The corporation is not directly enguged in exploitation; it
simply aots as a holding compary investing in subsidiery and other
cempanies who do the aotuel work. It is interested in the following
kinds of enterprises:
I.. Transportation, shipping, docks cnd harbors.
2. Telecommunications.
3. Generation and trunsmission of electricity.
4. Mining.
5. Mamufacture, distribution und utilization of salt.
6. Other adjustment or control meusures for promotion of economie
exploitation of North China.
In the beginning the corporation had only five subsidiaries; now
it has twenty-two subaidiaries and eight affiliated organizations.
It established a bureau at Peiping to survey potential resourees,
and dispatoned parties to Mongolia, Shantung and East Hopei to
gather information in preparation for systematio exploitation.
Central Chins Development Corporation - This is E twin organization
of the preseding one and was founded at the same time. The differenee
in the nomenclature was due to the fect that in Central Chine all
kinds of enterprise had been in existence to a more or less extent
and only needed further development, while in North China exploit-
atien had mostly to start from serateh and on that account required
more capital. The capital of the Central China Corperatien is
$100,000,000 - less than one third of that of the Nerth China.
While the Nerth China Corporation is purely a holding cempany,
the ether has been permitted by the Japanese Government to engage
at the same time direetly in the following kinds of enterprises:

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
-1-
Tramspertation.
Mlestrieity, gas and waterworks.
40
Miming.
5.
Fisheries.
6.
Other enterprises essential for the pub  o welfare or industrial
development of Central China.
Befere this corporation came into existe e, Japanese in Central
Chine had organized six companies: Central hina Mining, Central
China Water and Electrieity, Shangkai Inlan Steamship, Central
Chima Electrie Communication, Shanghal Real state, and Central
China Metropelitan Ommibus. The corporatio took over the control
of these compenies and orgenised seven wore It therefore has 13
subsidiaries besides one affiliated concern
That the Japanese have plsoed incroasinsa mphasis on enterprises
more direetly sonnected with their wur effo such as ceal, railways,
shipping and telecommunications may be dedu d from the fsct that the
corporation has inoreased its investment in wainan Coal Mine,
Central China Railways and Central China Kl tric Communications
Cempenies. Also during 1941 1t made no exte aion of suah enterprises
as ilk filatures and public utilities, if t actually redueing
their seope; while every effort was made th extend iron, coal, salt
and other industries producing materials fo munitions.
3. Dumping
a. Obiests of Duuping - Japancse have take care to leave gaps in
the Frent through whieh smugglcrs may bring apanese goods into Free
Chins in velume, their motives baing first, o obtain Chinese bank-
notes either for getting foreign exohunge o buying raw materials
for mmitions, and weakening the Chinese cu' eney aystem; second,
to maintain their markets in China while ot r foreign markets are
out off.
b. Dumpins Agenaies - Unsorupulous chines merchants aided by
Japanese and puppet officials ship and sell apanese goods either
individually or organized into companies or eaporary partnerships,
the latter being limited to a single consig ent of goods.
c. Hotheds of Smussling — Besldes all mea of water and land
transport used to dump goods into Free Chin various ways of
smuggling are resorted to, such as: false a presentation; mingling
among other goods; using parcel post; tun  ling around post of
inspestion; bribery of inspectors; militar 'proteetion; eamouflage
of pareels; taking edvantage of darkness.
-paths and air-raid
alarm to pass the burrier; employing women children, end old
peeple to bring contraband.
d. Effeets of Dumping - Systemetie dumpin of Japanese goods has
adversely affeeted the economic condition o Free Chine in the
follewing respeets: first, the amount of b knotes obtaincd fer the
goods dumped undermined the National curren by necessitating
imereased note issue on the ome hand, and f ging down its exehange

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.96)
-32-
 by unloading the notes on the exahange market on the ether;
was disrupted as labor was diverted to the highly profitable basimess
ef aggling -- eg. of 30,000 mow of farm land in two hslens ef South
Ankwei, Kwangteh and Langahi, one fifth has been forsaken by the
farmexs, and the poroelain industry of Kintehchen in Sast Kiangst has
deelined as many of the workmen have turned to suggling: and third,
may of the new industries in tho interior have been driven to the
wall beeemse their produets, with the high cost of materials and
transpertation, cannot compete with the smuggled and dumped Japenese
goods.
 Hewever the polioy of dumping was carried out for only a short
time, before the changed international situation brought about a
reversal of the peliey, replacing it with blookade.
•. henges in Dumping Poligy -- During the first stage, or up to the
freesing of Japanese deposits in Britain and Amerioa, the ebjeet of
dumping was to obtein foreign exchange vith Chinese banknotes; next
up to the outbreak of the Pacific War, the object was raw materials
rather than banknotes, and a blockade was imposed on the entry of
dlitary and other supplies into Pree China, dumping being limited to
narooties and goods of no use to Japan; finally with supply frem
other countries cut off, Japan has been sending all kinds of consumer
goods to the interior to exchenge for the materials she needs.
4. Bloekade
a. Contrabend liet -- Before the enforcement of blockade goods not
en the centraband list, much as luxuries and cloths, might be pur-
shased in the occupied crens and shipped out provided purchase and ship
ping licences had been both obtsined. Goods on the contraband list,
vis. iron, steel, copper, lead, zino, untimony, mangenese, flmor spar,
miea, mashinery, coal, hemp, cotton, wool, leather, furs, bristles,
wood-eil, tea, ete., were sold and shipped only to specified organize-
tions. After the adoption of unlimited blockade poliay nothing may be
purahased and shipped out except for the purpose of exchange.
b. Changes in Bloakade Poligy - Blockace tactice were adopted by
the Japanese right from the beginning of their invasion, but they
were first confined to the coast with the object of cutting off
commmicetions between Free China and the other countries and isalating
her ecenomically. On the mainland dumping to get hold of N.C. notes
was the rule, until freezing of Japanese deposits abroad frustrated
their soheme of getting foreign exchange and led them to replace
dumping with blockade. The pacification movoments in North and South
Chine had their chief objeet in economic blookade of Free Chine, whish
is partieularly tight and strict in North China.
When the "Movement to Strengthen Peacs and Order in North Chime"
was first put into effeet, bloskade was not well-organized and its seer
was limited to the prevention of commodities from flowing out of sitied
and senters ef trade and entering areas held by the guerillas. Later
spesial maehinery for bleekade was set up and a list ef comsodities
forbidden to go out of the designated areas was announsed, while the

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.96)
-33-
tests were put under a comprehensive system of zatiening, all
Fimelly bleekade was extended frem certain designated areas to sever
all sseupied China, and the list of centraband from commodities
meeessary fer war effort to all commodities without exeeptiom, the
ebjest being complete isolation of the sscupled arees frem Pree Chime,
and their gradual absorption into the Japanese economie system.
In Central Chima bloskads based on the "Prineiples of Pesifieatiem"
ef Wang Ching-wei's regime was at first confined to the so-callod
"Model Pacification Area" along Shanghai-Nanking and Shanghai-Hangehew
Railways, then later extended to West Chekiang and other areas. The
poliey of blookade here is similar to that of North China.
. leckede Machinery - The blockade machinery in North China
consists of the "Provinaial Economio Blockade Commiasion" under the
Jeint jurisdietion of the Japansse North China Expeditionery Feree
and the puppet Morth China Iolitical Commission with the governer as
chairman and heads of departments as nembers, cnd the division
eommander of the Japanese garrison as advisor. At each tao is a
"Tao Rconomic Inspectorste" with the taoyin as chief inspector and the
brigadier of the Japanese garrison s advisor end "Inspectorates" in
the constituent heiens. In each hsion bssides the Inspectorate there
is the "Hsien Reomomie Blockade Committee" with the magistrate as
chairmen and the cemmander of the hsien garrison as advisor. This
committee is responsible for carrying out all blockade measures with
all the forees in the hsien ct his dispos l - the garrison, poliee,
Heimminhui, Self-Defence Corps, and Pao-Chia ayaten. The hsien
eommittee controls a "Propaganua Squad" and an "Inspection Squed", and
the latter in turn controls "Inspection Posts" and "Economic Peliee".
The economio pollce visits rural villages to investigate the souree
of sommodities in the market and ascertain prices and amounts avail-
able. In addition there are various "Commodit Advisory Committees"
and cooperatives which are closely coordinated with the executive
machinery. Belew is & diagram of the whole blockade organizatien.
Exccutive Structure
Advi sory Strusture
Various Commodity____Provincial Economic.
Division Commander
Advisory Comittees Blookade Commission
Provincinl Garrieen
Chairuan
Tao Keonomde
Commander
Inspestorate
Teo Garrisen
Taoyin
Chief Ipspeeter

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
-54-
simsing frem page 55)
Ceeperattves---Inspectorate----lalen Eoenomie--Gommander
Bleakade Sttae. Haisn Garrissm
Kasistrate
Inspection
Propaganda
squed
Keonomic
Inspection
Follee
Post
d. Blogkade Areas and Contraband - The blockade arens are divided
into (1) mountainous and border areas and (2) plain and metrepolitam
areas. In Taihang Hountain Range and Shansi-Chahar-Hopei and Shansi-
Hopei-Honan Border Area which the guerillas use as bascs under the
first eategory, the blookede aims to cut off their sup lics by making
the folloving artieles contraband:
l. Arms, ammunition, mulphur, eleotric cells.
Iron, copper, tin, wolfram.
3.
Printing, weaving and silk-spinning machinery; dyestuffs.
4.
Medieine and medical supplies.
5.
Cotten, yarn and cloth.
6.
Leather, wool, hemp.
7.
Salt, matches.
8. Candles, paper.
9. Petroleum, coal.
10. Cement.
1l. Tobasco.
12. Sugar, riee and other grains.
Under the second cutegory, s in the cities of Tientsin, Tsinan,
Taiyuen and in the Hopei plain, the object is to facilitate plunder
of materials and to prevent them from finding their Way into Free
China. The following artieles mey not be taken out of sueh creas
without licenses
1. Arms and emmumition.
2. aulphur, printing machinery.
3. Iron, copper, wolrram, lumimum.
Metal ware (over 5 catties in weight)
5. Medieine und medical supplies.
6. Other materials used in making munitions.
. Blockade Methods - The methods differ with the blockade areas
mentloned above. In plains and metropolitan arons the object is to
prevent the outflow of materials from a metropolis us a nueleus by
enelesing it in a barricade and &radually extending it over the
adjoining areas as the commmications network inside is built up. In
the mountainous and border areas the object is to prevent the influm
of materials into the blockaded territory by isolating it and constant-
ly advaneing the line of blockade. The last is called the "first
line of bleekade" and the line areund a metropolitan area the bseond
lime of bloekade". The following instances are taken frem Nerth Chime.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.96)
-35 -
palitan Areas - Tainan is picketed by Japanese soldiers,
impertant thorougnfares. In addition the suburbs are enalesed
in & barbed wire fence.
Plaing - Bimilar blookade to the above have been established
2.
on the plaina, smch as those in Hopei. At the same time
materials have been bought up through the ageney of leeal
cooperatives.
3.
Hountainoys and Border Areaz -- The Taihengshan Mountain area
has been 1selated by a ditoh, 10 meters wide und 7 deep, built
with conseripted labor to a length of almost 3700 km. The
inhabitants in the vicinity have been rutioned in the supply of
daily neoessities to prevent any smuggling into the blookaded
area.
5. Rationing
8..
Obiegt of Rationins — Rationing has the following tiree objeots.
1 The primary object is to complement tho bloakade by ascertain-
ing the actual needs of the population of the occupiod areas
and supplying it with just enough materials and no surplus
available to the blockade runners.
2.
Commodity control for the purpose of first, giving priority
to the munitions industry of such materi ls us iron, non-
ferrous metals, leather, etc.; second, restricting popular
demand for the above materials.
3.
Consumption control to conserve supplies, promote thrift and
prevent rise of priccs und inflation.
b.
Hethod of Rationing -- Rationing has bean cnforced to the most
comprehensive extent in North China with strict control and
priorities in the export und import of industrial and war
materials, and rigid rationing of daily necessities in all
occupied distriots - some places having even been put under the
coupon system. Permits are required for purchase or shipment of
any kind of muterial; the amount of daily necessities needed by
each household must be reported and houso-to-house visits are
mede by inspectors to verify then; permits are examined by the
shops selling the materials und by the police at crossings. The
chamber of commeroe is required to make daily reports of imports,
and exports, their prices a d the source of imported marohandise.
In Central or South china restrictions in force only coneerm
the movement of commodities in or out of ports and metropolises.
daily necessities not yet being rationed.
Rationing Machinery - In North China control und rationing of
war and Industrial raw materials have been entrusted to the North
China xploitation Corporation whioh has enlisted the aid of
various trades to form the so-oalled North China So-and-So
Rationing Conferences. Fifteen sucn conferences have already
been formed with above uniform title. "Se-and-So" representing
each of the following trades or materials: (1) Galvanized irom,
(2) Iron goods, (3) Pig iron, (4) Lumber, (5) Paper, (6) Rubber.
(7) Petroleum, (8) Varnish, (9) Industrial chemicala, (10) Cememt,
(11) Salpaur. (12) Oumpeader, (15) Maehinery, (14) Powndry.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
-36 -
(15) Reimforeed conerete.
Ratiening of daily nesessities in Nerth Chine is im the
eharge of seoperatives under the supervisien of the leeal
governments, assisted by the police and civie greaps in making
investigations and inspeetiens.
In Central China rationing or rather distributing mmehim-
ery may be divided inte three categeries: (1) Only dealers
she heve joined their respective Trade Assosiatiens may de
bmsiness both in industrial raw materials and daily nesessit-
1es. Already 29 Trade Associations have been formed ineluding
galvanised iron, iron and eleetric wire, iron and steel, seal,
coke, lamber, cement, fibres, petroleum, non-ferrous metels,
ires werking, industrial chemistry, medieal apparatus, and
rubber. (2) Distributors of Commodities Purehasable with
Military Netes, which consist of 18 kinds of goods centrelled
by the Japanese East Asia Importers' Association and having
surplus production. These are sold in the occupied areas fer
the parpese of strengthening the military yen by redusing the
flood ef military notes. (3) Distribution of censumer goods
1s in the hands of Centrel China So-and-So Distributiom
Conferences. Thero ere Soap, Cotton-Yarn-Cloth, Sugar and
many other Distribution Conferences already erganised with
headquarters in shanghai and branches in the cities of all
the occupied areas of Central China. No others ere permitted
to sell these goods. Strict regulations govern all aspests
of shipment and distribution; e.g. quotas for distribution
in various districts are fixed according to their respeetive
populations; Japanese products though not given a monepoly
have priority both in ahipment and sale.
In South China distribution of commodities is controlled in
Cantom through the Commodity Control Committee established by
the provineial government of Kwengtung in November last (1941).
ith branehes at 13 haiens and municipalities. Before ship-
ping goods to any of these places, the merchant mist first
obtain an Entry Permit from the braneh concerned and then am
Exit Permit from the Committee in Canton.
3. Counter-Lleasures
Among the tastics of economic warfare mentioned above, plunder
and blookade play the prinoipal role supported by exploitation,
rationing and various forms of controls. In the past defence
meamures of the Chinese government consisted in control of trade in
various commodities and in counter-blockades established at the War
Distrists by the Fconomie Comittees attachcd to the District
Commendants headquarters. In order to cope with the present
intensified plundering of materials on the part of the Japanese, a
more eomprehensive plan of counter-bloekede is proposed below.
a.priiplee of the phan
I. A derinite pollay should be adopted for counter-blockede snd

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
-57-
for purehase of materials from csoupied areas, each in
sserdination with the other.
All aseful materials in csoupied areas should be beught up
2.
krought out as fast and as completely as possible.
3.
Bleskade of cccupied areas should be tightened to prevent
leakage ef useful materials.
4.
Nem-essential and sarplus goods should be sent into ocoupled
areas to exchangs for goods needed in Free China.
5.
Bleakade and purohasing mashinery should be strengthened and
umified.
6. Impediments to the carrying out of this plan should be
remeved.
7. Purchesing in cocupied sreas should be made by merehants
under the supervision of the government, and given every
asaistanse as well as encouragement.
b. Haphipexy - A special government department should be in charge
of the all-tmpertant work of economio warfare similar to the
Ministry of Eeonomie Warfare of Britain and the Asis Offies of
Japan. Hitherte purchasing of materials in ocoupied areas has
been made by the previneial governments, by the Commedity Bureau
and by the Eeonemie Committecs (no: changed to Economie Warfare
Departments) ef the various War Districts; and counter-bleekade
guarded sometimes by military and sometimes by reveme organ-
isations. All such work should be unified under one organisation
under the direct jurisdiction of the Executive Yuan with advaneed
pests or offices near the front to carry out all purohasing and
blockade measures. This organization should maintain close
liaison with troop units, transportation, inspection and revemue
organisations and sivie groups; organize groups of merehants to
make purohasing expeditions and maintain an efficient force of
anti-suggling sgents.
Purghasing Expeditions - Purchasing of materi ls in the occupied
areas cannot very well be undertaken by government organisations,
and is better handled by expeditions of groups of merehants
plammed and controlled by the government. All those whe wish
to partieipate in such purohasing must join a group and register
at the proposed government department or one of its advaneed
posts, which will issue permits to groups going on expeditions
and notify transport organizations to give them fasilities and
the revemue offiees to pass the goods purchased. On coming out
of the ossupled ares each group should repor, to an advaneed pest
or any office of the department with their purchases for exam-
imation, demignation of the locality and fixing of priees for
the sale of the commodities involved. The government will buy
these needed for national defense and give a reward when they
exesed a sertain quantity. The government should eno urage the
merehents to purehase important materials required for war
industries even at exhorbitant priess by guarantesing them
against losses. Surplus products should be used to barter for
more valuable materials in the occupied areas se as to avoid the

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
-38-
 ef banknotes. On the Kwangtung-Xwangsi frent, weed and
agetable olls may be bartered for gasoline, karosene, metals.
tea and bristles for cottom eloths; and en the Suiyuam-Nimghie-
Shensi-Shensi front, hides, furs and medieal herbs for setten,
eloth and whoat.
Cemnter Bleekade - To strengthen the counter-blockade a speeial
4。
cerps ef esonomio police might be fermed under the eeonemie
warfare organization with units stationed at different advaneed
posts or offices to ceoperate with the local military and ether
inspeetion organizations. These should be instrueted through
the economio warfare authority to pass no one except the mer-
chants having permits and to be especially watehful where the
line of bleckede is crossed by networks of lakes and waterways.
All conveyances of going to and from occupied areas should be
registered and their oargoes checked against the list of geods
listed on the permits issued to the merchants to be purahased or
those brought for the purpose of barter. Merohants permitted to
go en a purohasing expedition should be required to put up
reliable guarantee for their good behavior. When movements of
earge along the line of blockade exceed a certain volume,
permits should also be required giving the source, destination
and quantity of each kind of cargo, even if the line of bleekade
is not sressed, in crier to provent possible leakage through
roundabout channels.
Chapter Iv. Money and Benking
1. Tactios of Currenoy War
The ourrency war of the Japanese sims st undermining the Chinese
legal tender notes on the one hand end strengthening the puppet and
Japenese currencies on the other Accordingly the fundamental tasties
have taken the following lines:
1. Imslation of the Japanese from Puppet Curroncies - The Japanese
have eonsistently isolated the yen from the puppet currencies.
Befere the Pacifie War puppet notes had first to be changed inte
Sterling or U.S. dollars before they could be shanged into yens.
The ebjeet of using the pound sterling or the U.S. dollar as
medium of exehange between Japanese and puppet ourreneies was
to prevent the inflation of Chinese or puppet currensies frem
affeoting the yen. Sinee the Pacifie War these media could ne
longer be used, and the military yen was adopted instead with
the Cantral Reserve Banknotes tied to the military yen at the
rate of $10 to Y1.00. As the ciroulation of the military yem
is confined to occupied areas, any inflatien of the pappet netes
ean enly affect the military yen without prejudieing the
Japanese eurreney.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
-39-
may be used in payment of taxes and railway and steamship fares
on the same footing as military yens, hitherto the emly
eurreney aceepted. Censequsntly their eireulation has grewn
from $200,000,000 at the end of 1ast year (1942) to $1,700,000,
000. The purpese is to strengthan the puppet organisation by
strengthening its financial structure.
3.
Getting Hela of Ch'pese Banknotes - At first the Japanese used
all the Chinese notes they could get from the occupled areas to
obtain fereign exchange both to make purehase of materials frem
abreed and to deplete the Chinese Exchange Stabilisation Pund.
After the freezing of Japanese deposits in England and Ameries,
they could no longer aoquire foreisn exohangs, but they wanted
Chinese notes none the less for purehasing and smuggling
materials out of Free China. By enßoroing prohibition of
Chinese notes from ciroulation in the occupied areas people
were eempelled to give up the chinese notes in their pessessiem
in exehange for puppet notos.
2. Puppet Banks and Bankmotes.
A. Puppet Banks
1. Bank of Hongolia and Holuted Sanks — After occupying Kalgen,
Tatung and Aueisui in August 1937, the Japanese established on
September 21 of the same yeur the Bank of South Chahar, the
first among the puppet banks. Branohes of the bank were
mueosssfully opened in Hwailci, Suanhua, Tatung, Kueisui,
Paotou, ete. Subeequently the Hongolian Joint Commission was
organized b the three "autonomous governuents" of South Chahar,
Morth Shansi and Mongolia; whereupon the Bank of South Chahar
was enlarged to form the Benk of Mongolie with each of the
three governments peying up $1,000,000, the paid-up capital
thus amounting to one fourth of the authorized capital of
$12,000,000. The Bank began business on December 1, 1957 under
an organization consisting of a general manuger, two assistant
general managers, three direotors, und one supervisor. The
Currency Jommittee of the Joint Mongolian Commission stationed
an inspector at the bunk to supervise end direet its activities.
Besides deing all kinds or commeroial banking the bank was
autberized to issue banknotes and act es the national treasury.
All the modern banks in the occupied areas having stopped
busimess, the new puppet bank took the opportunity to obtain
the puppert of the native banks and establish under its contrel
the three "Industrial Banks" of South Chahar, Herth Shansi and
Mongelia. with a view to further consolidation of banking
mashinery of occupied areas necessitated for intensified
speilatien of materials by the extension of the war to South
Pasifie, the three banks have now been consolidated inte the

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
一40 -
Eangho Industrial Bank.
in planning to establish a "Central Bank". On Jamuary 7, 1938
the Exeeutive Committee of the Provisinnal Covernment appointed
a sommittee of nine to organize the Federal Reserve Bank of
Berth China with authorised capital of $50,000,000, one half of
whiah to be subsoribed by the government and one Malf by private
banks. The bank was to bogin funetioning when one half of the
autherised capital was paid up. In order to pay up the puppet
government's share of $12,50 ,000, a loan was made from the
Bank of Japan, Bank of Chosen and Yekohame Specie Bank. Anether
lean of $100,000,000 was obtained from a consortaum of Japamese
banks to serve as reserve and the bank was opened on Mareh 10,
1938. Subsequently over 30 brenehes end agencies were estab-
lished in various places. As in Mongelia, leeal banks were
organized in the cities to enlist the support of native money
interests, the required cepital being sh red equally by the
latter and the Pederel Reserve Bank. In April 1942 the benk
planned to organize the Morth Chine Clearing House in order to
facilitate banking operations in North Chine. The clearing-
house inaugurated its service on May 1, 1942 in Peiping, Tient-
sin and Tsingtao. A recent report in the Yomiuri Shimbun said
that Mitsui, Mitsubishi and six other big Japanese banks had
decided to jointly establish a bank in North China to promote
cconomic constrmotion within the Greater East Asia Ce-Prosper-
ity Sphere.
5.
Central Reserve Bank and Branches -- One yeur after the
occupation of Central China, on May 1, 1939, the Sino-Japanese
"Huahsing Commercial Bank" was formed in Shanghai with a paid-up
capital of $50,000,000 subscribed in equal amounts by the
puppet Reformed Government and six Japanese banks. This bank
like the others mentioned was privileged to issue banknotes
and serve as treasury of the puppet government. Wang Ching-wets
appearance on the puppet stege (Merch 30, 1940) was followed
by the reorganization of the bank into the Central Reserve Bank
with a capital of $100, 000,000. The new bank began busimess en
Jamuary 6, 1941, organized with the following divisions under
a general manager and a board of directors: three bureaux -
Business, Ciroulstion end National Treasury; four departments -
General Affairs, Secretariat, Auditing and Researeh; and, later
on, the additional Trust Department and Old Notes Liquidation
Committee. In fact the bank has all the prerogatives of central
banks including that of note issue inherited from the Huahsing
Commercial Bank.
The Chungkiang Industrial Bank established May 5, 1940 in
Hankow w1th Y20,000,000 in military notes as capital, cccup1es
the leuding position emong the banks in the Wuhan distriet. Im
Kwangtung Provinee the puppet Provineial Bank of Kwangtung serve
as the central bank of the province issuing notes and making fim
ancial transsetions for the provineial government.
It may beeseen from the above that all matters of money and

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
-41-
may be seen from the above that all matters of money and
dmg in cesupied China are now controlled by the three priniepal
Ang erganisations whieh are thenselves controlled by big Japanese
ressurees of the cecupied arees.
B. Puppet Banknotes
The Japenese and puppet banknotes now ciroulating in the ccoupied
areas apart from the puppet Central Bank notes in Manchuria inelude
military yen notes, and bankmotes of the Bank of Mongolia, Federal
Reserve Bank, Huahsing Commeroial Bank anc Central Reserve Bank. All
these notes ciruulate on the trail of the invading troops. In
Mongolia end North China the military yen notes have been gradually
retired from ciroulation as the puppet notes take their place, but
in Shanghai and Wuhan areas, the military notes still ciroulate in
large mumbers even though the Jentral Reserve notes have been 1ssued.
The present aireulation of the puppet, Jcpanese and Chinese legal
tender notes will be deelt with sep retely below.
1. Mongolian Bankmotes - Formerly there was a great veriety of
notes ciroulating in Inner Mongolia including those issued by
loeal banking and finanoial organizations. After Japanese
occupation the puppet government using the pretext of curreney
reform ordered the prohi vition of the old notes and exchanging
them for the puppet notes. un September 30, 1938 the South
Chahar Autonomous Government proclaimed an urgeney order setting
a time limit for the Bank of south Chalar to make suah exchange.
The time limit was extended again and agcin, and by the end of
1938 over $10, v00, 00 in 1d notes had been collected, of which
the NC notes amounted to ubout 2. 00. 000. hen the Bank of
Hongolia succeeded the Bunk of South Chahar, it iuherited the
right of issue of both cuins und notes. The latter consist of
Bouth Chehar's 1, and 10-dollar motes und the new bank's 1. 5.
10 and l00-dollar and subsidiay notes. The coins consist of
half-dollars or the new bank, coins of the Henchukuo Central
Bank and old coppers. All the notes used to ciroulate in
Peiping and Tientein us well as Kalgen, but by agreement between
the puppet governmente of Mongolia und North China the cireulat-
Lon of Mongolian notes has besn limited to Inner Mongolia and
North Shansi. By the end of Decewber 1942 the Mongolian note
1ssue had exoeeded $110,000,000. It has been reported lately
that the Bank of Mongolia is going to withdrnw its notes and
eiroulate the Federal Reserve notes. This would be quite in
line with the Japanese policy of consolidating the currency
struoture of North China.
2.
Pederal Reserve Banknotes - Prior to the Lukowobiao Ineident,
the notes of the Bank of Chosen had been circulated in Pelping
and Tientsin to an amount around 15,000, 000. With the ocoupatien
of the cities the Japanese put more and more Japanese and Kereen
notes into eirouletion which began to depreciate. The Federal
Reserve Bank opened March 11, 1338 et onse 1ssued the  notes

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
-42 -
take the place of the Japanese and Korean notes for use in
shasing supplies for the occupation foree, and to ahange them
tor the N C notes with whish to obtain foreign exohange. These
motes are in 10 denominations: à, 1, 5, 10, 20 and 50-cent, and
$1, 5, 10 and 100. The FRB dollar like the yen was at first
pegged to the sterling at the rate of 1 shilling 2 penee to a
dollar und after December 14, 1939 to the U.S. curreney at the
rate of U8$23 and 7/16 to FRB$100. After the freezing of gold
depomits in Britain and Amerios in July 194l the puppet government
resorted to determined assault on the No notes in order to
strengthen the FRB notes. It set a date before which all the NC
notes in North China mmst be submitted to exahenge for the FRB
notes snd at tho seme time prohibited the entry of N0 notes frem
South China threatening severe penelty to smugglers of such notes.
On March 9. 1939 the eleven districts of Peiping, Tientsin,
Tzingtao, Shihhiachuang, Taiyuan, Tangahan, Cheefoo, Shengheikwan,
Lingfen, Sinsiang end Lonan wore designated as the exclusive
premerve for FRB notes where the cirouletion of all eld notes was
to be absolutely forbidden. Other places were to follow suit as
soon as the Jepanese garrison could put it into effect. By the
ond of Apri1 1942, the FR3 note 1ssue totalled 9910,000,000.
3.
Haahsing and Central Reserve Banknotes -— Originally Huahsing
Commercial Bank used the NC notes as reserve for issuing its
banbmates, which were givan the same velue, with the idee of
taking advantage of the curreney shortege in the war rens for
umurping the place of National currency. At that time the NC
notes had been stabilized at about 8 pence to the dollar by the
10.O00,O00-pound Stabilization Fund and afforded a golden
opportunity for the puppet notes both to use as reserve and to
acquire foreign exohange vith. In defence the Nationel Government
on July 6, 1939 suspended payments from the Stabilization Fund and
the exohange dropped to five penoe on July 19. The bank was
ordered by the Asia Officc on the same day to fix the Huahming
notes at the rate of mix pence to the dollr irrespective of the
depreoiation of the NC currency. The ciroul tion of the Huahsing
notes was limited, w1th $6,000,000 as the record high.
The Central Reserve Bonknotes 1nclude 1, 5, 10, 50 and 100-
dollar notes and sovernl denominations of subaidiary-coin notes,
though coins have never been minted. Owing to restrictions on
the issue of the CRB notes their ciroulation has also been limited
to the lower Yangtze delta as far up as Wuhu, s far north as
Pengpu and south as Hangehow. Not only have the CRB notes been
forbidden to infiltrate into Mongolia and North China, but their
cireulotion within the delta has by no mesns been exolusive,
military yen and N0 notes being still very much in evidence. From
$6,000,000 on January 11, 1941 to $237,000,000 at the end of the
year, the note ciroulation inoreased by 20 million per month on
the average. These notes like their predecessors, the Huahsing
notes, were utilized to the utmost for obtaining foreign exchange
through the medium of me notes until the evacustion of the four
National banks from Shanghai on the outbreak of the Pacifie War.
The Japamese eurreney war then changed its tactios from centering

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
-43-
the objeetive of acquiring foreign exchange to that of acquir-
Img materials from Frec China. The first step was to collect the
mo motes by prohibiting their ciroulation; the next to use the
motes to purehase required materials in Chinese territory. In
Mareh 1942 the CRB notes were made to exohange with the NC to the
dimmdvantage of the latter, whereas hitherto the two kinds of
notes exchanged freely between them at par, till by May 21, the
rate beeame $2 NC to $1 CRB. Then beginning with June 8. Wang
Ching-wei successively promulgated orders excluding the Ne notes
frem Nanking end Shanghai, then cities in Kiangou, Cheklang and
Anhwei, and finally Wuhan and C:nton areas. As  result the
eiroulation of the CRB notes inore sed at on averuge rate of
70,000.000 month1y reaching the tota1 of $1,700,000,000 by the
end of Oetober, 1942.
Yen and Wilitary Yen Notcs -- The yen notes, rurely met with in
China before tho invasion, began to appear in growing numbers in
the wake of the invading hordes. Later as the Nc notes fell in
value, foreign as well as Chinsse traders changed their NC notes
for FRB notes, bought yers with them to be ultiuately turned into
foreign exohange in Shanghui. For a time the shanghai exchange
market was flooded with yen notes which were largely used by both
foreign and Chinese importers to pay for Japenese products. The
Japanese exporters inste d of getting the foreign exchange they w
were after got back their o: notus only. To prevent inflation
from this source the Japanese began to retire the yen notes frem
the ocoupied areas and use wilitary yen notes instead. These
comprise the notes specielly printed in 1937 by the Japanese
govermment printing office md the Bunk of Japan notes chopped
with the charecters for "Militury notes". Melther bears merial
numbers or signaturcs of the banks of issuo; neither is backed
with reserves. They cannot ffect the value of the yen whatever
the aireulation of these milituy notes may become. Neither the
Japanese govarnment nor ny of th. Japaneae banks can be held
responsible. The only re son that they have been accepted for
ciroulation is that they re backed b byonets.
5.
The National Curreney Notes — Despite the drastic measures used
by the puppet governments to underaine the Nutional currency, the
popular faith In the ultinate victory of Free China and hence the
confidence in the legal tender notes haw not been shaken. They
have been able to enforce prohibition of the circulation of No
notes only in the cities and along the lines of communication in
the occupied ereas, but these notes still circulate in Mongolia
and North China, not to say Central China. The rates of exchange
in various areas prevailins in October 1942 ure as follows:
Central China - CRB 31 •quivalent to NC$2
North
- 3RB $1
".C315 approximately
Mangolia
-$1
military notes -
Y1
The abeve rates of exahange have been subjeet to sudden drops of
the value of puppet notes en special occasions. On the outbreak ef

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
44 -
ifie War, the FRB dollar changed at less than par with the
Mesently while the official rate of the CRB was still NO$2, 1ts
Fek markst rate in different losalities of Central China varies
stween mas1.30 to as low as $0.70, There is indeed deep-rooted
eanfidemee in the lagal tender on the part of the population in all
the esoupied areas.
C. Aoquimition of Foreign Exchange
Before the freezing of Japanese deposits by Ameriean snd British
governments, the following methods were used to acquire foreign
exehange through the medium of the Chinese notes:
1. Exehange the puppet notes for Chinese at the money exchango shops.
2. Purehase commodities in occupicd areas with puppet notes und sell
them in Shanghai for NC notes.
Require payment of oustom duties in CRB notes or "during the
period of transition old legal tender notes at the same value as
stipulated in the Interim Keasures for Curreney headjustment" of
the puppet customs administration. (This method permitted the
puppet bank to acquire a large amount of NC notes and at the same
time put a corresponding amount of puppet notes in ciroulation.)
Exohange the puppet notes for military yens witn which to obtain
NC notes.
5.
Control payment in foreign exchange through foreign trade control.
6.
Allot CRB notes to Chinese banks against deposits of NC notes and
foreign exchange.
D. Devaluation of the Chinese Dollar
Following the Japancse occupation of Shanghai and the evacuation of
the four Chinese National banks cquisition of forein oxehange by
means of NC notes wes no longer possible, and the Japanese changed
their poliey of keeping these notes at par with the CRB to that of
devaluating the NC doller. In March 194? the military yen was fixed
at $1 to $5 NC and on March 22 the Jupanese financial officer stationed
in Saanghai called a meeting of the banks and exehange shops and made
them responsible to change NC notes into CRB at the rate of 31o0 to
CRBo7y. The puppet government followed at the end oi the month by
canoelling the parity regulations hitherto existing between the two
ourrencies. Afterwards further devaluation of the Nc dollar was
effeeted until it was worth only half of the CRB.
E. Ban on the Ciroulation of NC Notes
Since the first of June 1942 the Measure for Dealing with NC Notes
promulgated by the puppet government on May 27, l942 became effective.
the follewing are the prineipal pbints iuvolved:
1. The N0 notes shall not be oirculated except with special permission.
2. The NC notes may be deposited in the banks or changed for CRB
motes or the Curreney Bonds at the rats of 2:l; these notes are
limited to these of the Central Bank, Bank of China, and the Bank
of Cemunisations having no geographieal earmark except "Shanghai".

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
- 45 -
The subsidiary ourreney notes may not be exshanged for the CRB
but may still cireulate at one half of the falue of the same
damemination of the latter.
3.
The eurreney bonds used to exchange for No notes may be weed as
sesurity for making Loans from the Central Reserve Bank te the
ameunt ef their fase value provided the proceeds are spent fer
legitimate purposes.
All peyments contracted for in the past in NC shall be paid in
CRB at the rate of $1 CRB to $2 NC. Hereafter all contraets base
on the NC shall not be valid.
5.
The entry of the NC notes into the occupied areas shall be
strietly prohibited.
The puppet government at first limited the enforcement of the
above measures to Kiangsu, Chekiang and Anhwei and the munioipalities
of Shanghai and Nanking, but has gradually extended the seope to
Canton and Hankow, where branohes of the Central Reserve Bank have
already been established and time limits set for turning all NC notes
in siroulation to exchange for ORB notes at 2:1.
F. Coumterfeiting the NC Notes
Finally counterfeiting has been resorted to for undermining the
strength of the National currency. Counterfeit NC notes have been
met with in Changsha and Kukong.
3. Defense Against Currency War
The defence measures used by the Chinese government sinee the
outbreak of hostilities to cope with the changing tactics of the
enemy consisted chiefly of the following:
1. Foreign Erohange Control -- Up to Pearl Harbor the Japanese
consistently strove to obtain foreign exchange with the NC notes.
The Chinese government instituted strict control of foreign
exchange from the beginning of the war. At first it adopted the
poliey of unrestricted trade in foreign exohange and kept the
exehange rate quite stable up to March 10, 1937. Restriction of
the eschange trade became imperative when the puppet notes were
unleaded in the market to obtein NC notes with whioh to buy
foreign exehange. The Ministry of Finance on Mareh 12, 1938 pro-
algated regulations governing application to purchase foreign
exehange with the work of examination and approval of applloations
first entrusted to a department of the Central Bank and later to
a special organisation, the Foreign Exchange Commission, under
the Ministry. The above regulations were superceded by
"Regulations Governing the Application of Imperters for Foreign
Curreney" of July 3, 1939, whereby the importess could apply fer
foreign emshange from the Commission at the offieial rate of
exshange. However, as the demand for foreign exchange greatly
exceeded the mupply granted by the Cemmission, which usually
allowed the applieant only a part of the amount requested, the

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
aem Fumd ef 10,000,000 pounds Sterling 1n Maroh 1938. In April
194l after coneluding Stabilisation Fund agreements with Ameriean
and British Gevernments, the govermment organized the Stabilization
Gemmittee to supply foreign exahange required by both the governmest
and private individmmls. In September of the year the Foreign
Exehange Cemmission was put under the direet jurisdietion of the
Exeeutive Yuam.
2. Restristion on the Movement of NC Notes -- To prevent the flight of
capital and te relieve the pressure on the Shanghai foreign exchange
market, the Gevernment promulgated Regulations Restricting the
Amsumt of Bankmetes Brought Out of the Country 1n June 1938, and
printed "Chungking" on the banknotes. In addition the loeal banks
were instrusted toe issue their own notes and collect the NC notes
thereby preventing them from falling into enemy hands. The above
regulations were sancelled on the disappearance of the foreign
exehange market from Shanghai, and the object was no longer the
preventien of flow of NC notes into occupied areas, but rather the
prevention of their flowing back to aggravate inflation in Free
China and to pay for commodities smuggled out to the enemy.
3. Ban on the Cireulation of Japanese and Puppet Notes - After the
enemy started to ciroulate military yen and puppet notes, the
Gevermment on Janumry 7, 1939 promulgated Regulations for the
Prohibitiem of Enemy Currenoy from possession and ciroulation with
the following provisions emong others:
1. Asceptanee and use of such notes shall be absolutely forbidden.
2. When a military unit or an organization is found to keep, trans-
pert or use sueh notes on behalf of the enemy, the notes shall
be confiscated and the offenders court-martielled under Artiele
2, "Helping the Enemy in isrupting the Curreney System" of the
Anti-Treason Code. Those who use NC notes, gold, silver or
remittanee to obtain such notee shell be treated likewise.
3.
Any individual or organization who has knowledge of seeret
organizations or individuals who possess, transport or use such
notes mhall at onoe report the matter to the loeal military or
police headquarters, and shall be indicted himself on a treason
charge should he fail to so report.
The troops as well as guerillas in the war areas observed the above
regulations to such good effect that Japanese and puppet notes could
enly eireulate in a few big ports and cities garrisoned by Japanese
troops.
4. Insreasing the Value of the NC in Occupled Areas - Since Pearl
Harber the Japanese have sought to devaluate the NC. In order to
keep the onfidenee of the population of the occupied areas in the NC,
the fellowing measures have been decided upon between the Ministry
of Finance nnd the Joint Office of the Four National Banks:
1. Government Bonds Sales Committee to be aharged with the task of
selling bonds in the oocupied areas.
2. The depurtment to be established under the Ministry of Finanee
for readjustment of carge transportation to be charged with the
task of selling non-essential produets as tes to the occupied

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.97)
-47-
ar Taterest on deposits in places adjasent to occapied areas
so as to absorb the no motes flewing inward.
The Gustoms and Anti-Smuggling Corps af the Hinistry of Fine
te be held respensible for prevention of smuggling or
commodities from Free to Occupied China.
4. Proposed Counter-Measures
The aheve defense measures of the Government have served their
purpese bat should be revised to mest changed conditions. There is
need te term the defensice curreney war to offensive by tightening
the eommter-bleekade of the occupied areas and to take more effectiv
steps against the flow of NC notes to the interior.
1. Tishtening the Counter-Blockade - Enemy occupation has been mord
er less limited to cities and the interconneeting lines of
communieations leaving the guerilles in control of the vast rural
hinterland whioh produces the food and other materials constantly
needed by the urben population. If the guerillas are effeetively
orgmmized to make the counter-blockade airtight, the shortage of
materials in the cities of the occupied areas will be acute and
priees will rise rapidly and the puppet notes will depreciate in
prepertien. At the seme time the ciroulation of Japanese and
puppet netes should be strictly banned and people using them
severely punished. In this way the extension of the eiroulation
of these notes can be checked while the National curreney
strengthened in the war creas.
2.
Absorption of the NC Notes Neer the Front -- The reports of the
most recent dates indicated an inereasing flow of NC notes inward
and that of commodities outward which together constitute a
grave danger to Free China, if allowed to continue unoheeked, by
intensifying curreney inflation. It is proposed to establish
branches of the national banks at the important trading centers
near the front and posts of inspection both to prevent the
muggling of commodities into the occupied areas and to step the
flow of nC notes further inland. Travelers to the interior
should be allowed to bring only a limited amount of NC notes, amy
exoess to be deposited in the branohes of the hanks at a good
rate of interest. Withdrawal of such deposits should be restrist
to mome time after the concludion of the war or to fixed instal-
ments at specified intervals. Thus the danger of inflation may
be redueed with the flow of NC notes from the occupied areas
diverted to the National banks, and at the same time these notes
may be used to obtain materials fron Occupied China.
ND

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 3965
AMERICAN LEGATION
UNRESTRICTED
Stockholm, Sweden
August 25, 1944
8-2544
24
Subject: Japanese Economic Items Reported
by the German Press
5
:2
N0
The Honorable
MICROFILMED AT THE
5
The Secretary of State,
AMERICAN LEGATION,
STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN.
Washington.
AUG 2 8 1944
DATE
Sir:
As of possible interest to the Division of
Japanese Affairs and to the Foreign Economic Admin-
istration, I have the honor to transmit herewith a
memorandum prepared in the Foreign Countries Division
of the Legation, summarizing articles which have ap-
peared recently in the Krakauer Zeitung and which deal
with various aspects of Japanese economic conditions.
The topics treated in the German paper on August 5, 2,
6 and il are: the expansion of the Mitsui interests,
economic collaboration between Japan and Thailand,
readjustments especially of an agricultural nature
in the Philippines, and standardized Japanese clothing,
respectively.
f
Respectfully yours,
Herschal V. Johuson
Microfilmed
Signed confirmation copy by mail
Copy to American Embassy, London (Political Division)
Copy to American Embassy, London (Economic Warfare Division)
File copy
File no. 850
PL:rc
n.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch no. 3965, dated August 25,
1944, from the American Legation, Stockholm, Sweden,
entitled: "Japanese Economic Items Reported by the
German Press".
Source:
Krakauer Zeitung,
August 5,2,6,11, 1944
MEMORANDUM
Title: Certain Aspects of Japanese Economic
Life and Colonial Aspirations.
Of the somewhat scanty news concerning Japan which
from time to time appears in the Krakauer Zeitung, the
following information would appear of a certain interest:
New Expansion of the Mitsui Interests. According to
an article under this heading in the above-mentioned
Cracow paper of August 5, 1944, the Mitsui concern, de-
scribed as "the greatest industrial dynasty in Japan",
has now been granted permission by the Government to
raise the capital of the Mitsui Kozan K.K. (the Mitsui
Mining Company), established in 1911, to Yen 200,000,000.
The official reason for this move is the intention to
increase the output of coal, copper, lead and tin ores
in the company's mines. In the opinion of the German
paper, the aim would seer to be the accelerated exploita-
tion of the ground wealth in the occupied Eastern Asiatic
areas, of which the tin mines of the Malay States and the
Dutch East Indies, as well as the ores of Burma, Thailand,
the Philippines and French Indochina are mentioned.
In addition to its mining interests, the Mitsui con-
cern has also in the course of the years built up a vast
chemical industry which centers round the Mitsui Kagaku
K.K. (The Mitsui Chemical Company), which was established
in 1940, with a capital of Yen 100,000,000, and which has
taken over the chemical sections of the Mitsui Mining
Company and the Mitsui Bussan K.K. (Trading Co.).
The chemical industry of the Mitsui mainly comprises the
coal deposits of Miike on the island of Kiushu, on the
western shore of which, in Omuda, one of the most important
Japanese chemical industries has sprung up. In addition
to coking and tar products, practically all the key raw
materials, such as sulphuric acid, nitric acid, synthetic
gasoline and medicines, etc. are produced. Particular
mentior is made of the synthetic gasoline plant which was
established by the Mitsui Mining Co. in 1940, and which
works according to the Fischer-Tropsch system.
Collaboratior of Japan and Thailand. In a notice
under this heading in the Krakauer Zeitung of August 2,
1944

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
Stockholm/Despatch 3965
Encl. 1
-2-
1944, it is stated that, despite wartime difficulties,
cooperation between the two countries proceeds "accord-
ing to plan". On its part, Japan is providing Thailand
with cotton cloth, sugar, quinine "and other things", and
has been instrumental in "laying the basis for industrial
development in Thailand". As a result, Thailand will soon
be in a position to open its own factories for textiles
and rubber.
Of the various "joint" industrial establishments, the
following are mentioned: the Thailand Caoutchouc Company,
established in Bangkok in May 1941, with a capital of
Thailand Baht 1,O00,O00; the Thailand Industrial-Chemical
Company, and the Thailand Textile Company. Cooperation
in the shipping branch is alsc said to make good headway,
in which connection emphasis is laid on the "extensive
exploitation" of the Thailand teakwood forests.
The most intensive collaboration is, however, said
to exist in the finance and currency sector. In pursuance
of the Pan-Asiatic Yen-block policy, the Central Reserve
Eank of Thailand was created in 1942. Although no statistics
are said to be available concerning the activities of that
bank, it is believed tc function in close connection with
the Bank of Japan. In the whole of Thailand, there are
now said to be eight private banking institutes, of which
one is Japanese, two Chinese, one French Indochinese and
the rest Thailandic.
Good results are also said to have been achieved in
Thailand agriculture, Japan's share consisting in the
supply of rice, wheat and vegetable seed and "the promise
of technical cooperation", and that of Thailand in inten-
sified cultivation mainly of rice.
"Readjustments" in the Philippines. The Krakauer
Zeitung of August 6, 1944 was glad to report to its readers
that, for the purpose of an intensified industrialization,
the Philippines had expressed their willingness to "let in
foreign capital", i.e. Japanese investments. More important
even than "industrial autarchy", however, is the development
of agriculture. There is still a shortage of essential
foodstuffs, which is directly attributable to the former
agricultural policy which mainly dictated the cultivation
of sugar cane and Manila hemp.
Since the staple food of the Filipinos is rice, rice
they must cultivate and not expect any imports! "To help
them in this their aim", the Japanese military administra-
tion had introduced a Five-Year-Plan, which is now being
carried into effect by its successor, the "Government of
the Philippines". This plan foresees: a redistribution of
arable surface; a gain of new land through the drainage of
swamps; the import of seed; the combating of pests, and an
increased adoption of agricultural machinery.
In

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
Stockholm/Despatch 3965
Encl. 1
-3-
In connection with recent developments, it is mentioned
that rice cultivation is progressing forcibly, so much so
that, last season, "numerous cotton plantations were turned
into rice fields", although originally it had been planned
to turn only sugar plantations into rice fields.
Standardization of Clothing. The Cracow paper of
August 11, 1944, in a generally worded article, stated
that, in view of the small clothes ration of "4o annual
points", a great uniformity of clothing is now observable
in the Japanese city streets and public places. To save
material, women generally wear the "Mompei", which is a
kind of trousers worn over the kimono and evolved from the
working clothes of peasant women. Also, trousers of
fathers, husbands, etc. are worn. The "Mompeis" are sewn
in the most different varieties of colors, so that the
appearance of the Japanese women at least is none the worse
for wartime conditions.
Not so the men, most of whom are garbed in the so-
called "Kokubin Yofuku", the dark-green standard suit,
with cap to match, which is said to be similar to the one
worn by the German labor service. Now, in the summer of
1944, this cap is, however, said to be manufactured of
thin straw. The men's clothing is completed by an "obligatory
pair" of puttees.
An innovation in the clothing of undergraduates, pupils,
railwaymen, etc., is the wearing of badges with name, address
and blood group.
EAA:rC

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
NOV 9 -1944
NOV 10 1944
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEC
2
No.3965
MERICAN LEGATION
UNRESTRICTED
tockholm, Sweden
August 25, 1944
3 34
Subject: Japanese Economic Items Reported
894.50/8-2544
by the German Press
MICROFILMED AT THE
The Honorable
AMERICAN LEGATION,
The Secretary of State,
STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN.
AUG 2.8.1944
Washington.
DATE
Sirs
As of possible interest to the Division of
Japanese Affairs and to the Foreign Economic Admin-
istration, I have the honor to transmit herewith a
memorandum prepared in the Foreign Countries Division
of the Legation, summarizing articles which have ap-
peared recently in the Krakauer Zeitung and which deal
with various aspects of Japanese economic conditions.
The topics treated in the German paper on August 5, 2,
6 and il ares the expansion of the Mitsui interests,
economic collaboration between Japan and Thailand,
readjustments especially of an agricultural nature
in the Philippines, and standardized Japanese clothing,
respectively.
Respectfully yours,
Herschal V. Johnson
CS/D
Microfilmed
Signed confirmation copy by mail
Copy to American Embassy, London (Political Division)
Copy to American Embassy, London (Economic Warfare Division)
File copy
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL POLICY
File no. 850
PLirc
NOV 2 5 1944
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
DIVISION OF
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT
NOV 2- 1944
REPRODUCTION SECTION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch no. 3965, dated August 25,
1944, from the American Legation, Stockholm, Sweden,
entitled: "Japanese Economic Items Reported by the
German Press".
Source: Krakauer Zeitung,
August 5,2,6,11, 1944
MENORANDUM
Title: Certain Aspects of Japanese Economic
Life and Colonial Aspirations.
of the somewhat scanty news concerning Japan which
from time to time appears in the Krakauer Zeitung, the
following information would appear of e certain interests
New Expansion of the Vitsui Interesta. According to
an article under this heading in the above-mentioned
Cracow paper of August 5, 1944, the Mitsui concern, de-
scribed as "the greatest industrial dynasty in Japan",
has now been granted permission by the Government to
raise the capital of the Witsui Kozan K.K. (the Mitsui
Mining Company), establ1shed 1n 1911, to Yen 200,000,000.
The official reason for this move is the intention to
increase the output of coal, copper, lead and tin ores
in the company's mines. In the opinion of the German
paper, the aim would seem to be the accelerated exploita-
tion of the ground wealth in the occup1ed Eastern Asiatic
areas, of which the tin mines of the Malay States and the
Dutch East Indies, as well as the ores of Burma, Thailand,
the Philippines and French Indochina are mentioned.
In addition to its mining interests, the Mitsui con-
cern has also in the course of the years built up a vast
chemical industry which centers round the Mitsui Kagaku
K.K. (The Mitsui Chemical Company), which was established
in 1940, with a cap1tal of Yen 100,000,000, and wh1ch has
taken over the chemical sections of the Mitsui Mining
Company and the Mitsui Bussan K.K. (Trading Co.).
The chemical industry of the Mitsui mainly comprises the
coal deposits of Miike on the island of Kiushu, on the
western shore of which, in Omuda, one of the most important
Japanese chemical industries has sprung up. In addition
to coking and tar products, practically all the key raw
materials, such as sulphuric acid, nitric acid, synthetic
gasoline and medicines, etc. are produced. Particular
mention is mede of the synthetic gasoline plant which was
established by the itsui Mining Co. in 1940, and which
works according to the Fischer-Tropsch system.
Collaboratior of Japan and Thalland. In a notice
under this heading in the Krakauer Zeiturg of August 2,
1944

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
Stockholm/Despatch 3965
Encl. 1
-2-
1944, it 1s stated that, despite wartime difficulties,
cooperatior between the two countries proceeds "accord-
ing to plan". On its part, Japan is providing Thailand
with cotton cloth, sugar, quinine "and other things", and
has been instrumental in "laying the basis for industrial
development in Thailand". As a result, Thailand will soon
be in a position to open 1ts own factories for textiles
and rubber.
Of the various "joint" industrial establishments, the
following are mentioned: the Thailand Caoutchouc Company,
established in Bangkok in May 1941, with a capital of
Thailand Baht 1,000,000; the Thailand Industrlal-Chemical
Company, and the Thailand Textile Company. Cooperation
in the shipping branch is also said to make good headway,
in which connection emphasis is laid on the "extensive
exploitation" of the Thailand teakwood forests.
The most intens1ve collaboration is, however, said
to exist in the finance and currency sector. In pursuance
of the Pan-Asiatic Yen-block policy, the Central Reserve
Bank of Thailand was created in 1942. Although no statistics
are said to be available concerning the activities of that
bank, it is believed to function in close connection with
the Bank of Japan. In the whole of Thailand, there are
now said to be eight private banking institutes, of which
one is Japanese, two Chinese, one French Indochinese and
the rest Thailandic.
Good results are also said to have been achieved in
Thailand agriculture, Japan's share consisting in the
supply of rice, wheat and vegetable seed and "the promise
of technical cooperation", and that of Thailand in inten-
sified cultivation mainly of rice.
"Readjustments" in the Philippines. The Krakauer
Zeitung of August 6, 1944 was glad to report to 1ts readers
that, for the purpose of an intensified industrialization,
the Philippines had expressed their willingness to "let in
foreign capital", i.e. Japanese investments. More important
even than "industrial autarchy", however, is the development
of agriculture. There 1s still a shortage of essential
foodstuffs, which is directly attributable to the former
agricultural policy which mainly dictated the cultivation
of sugar cane and Manila hemp.
Since the staple food of the Filipinos is rice, rice
they must cultivate and not expect any imports! "To help
them in this their aim", the Japanese military administra-
tion had introduced a Five-Year-Plan, which 1s now being
carried into effect by its successor, the "Government of
the Philippines". This plan foresees: a redistribution of
arable surface; a gain of new land through the dreinage of
swamps, the import of seed; the combating of pests, and an
increased adoption of agricultural machinery.
In

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
Stockholm/Despatch 3965
Encl. 1
-3-
In connection with recent developments, it is mentioned
that rice cultivation is progressing forcibly, so much so
that, last season, "numerous cotton plantations were turned
integrice fields", although originally it had been planned
to turn only sugar plantations into rice fields.
Standardization of Clothing. The Cracow paper of
August 11, 1944, in a generally worded article, stated
that, in view of the small clothes ration of "40 annual
points", a great uniformity of clothing is now observable
in the Japanese city streets and public places. Temmave
material, women generally wear the "Kompei", which
kind of trousers worn over the kimono and evolved
the
working clothes of peasart women. Also, trousers or
fathers, husbands, ete. are worn. The "Mompeis" are sewn
in the most different varieties of colors, so that the
appearance of the Japanese women at least is none the worse
for wartime conditions.
Not so the men, most of whom are garbed in the so-
called "Kokubin Yofuku", the dark-green standard suit,
with cap to match, which is said to be similar to the one
worn by the German labor service. Now, in the summer of
1944, this cap is, however, said to be manufactured of
thin straw. The men's clothing 1s completed by an "obligatory
pair" of puttees.
An innovation in the clothing of undergraduates, pupils,
railwaymen, etc., is the wearing of badges with name, address
and blood group.
EAAsrc

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
Office Memorahdum · UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO
LRD-Mr/Mu11xken
DATESeptember 1, 1944
Bchehan
PROM
LRD -MrFr1edman
SUBJECT: CAC 160 Tapan: Economic Pol1cy".
In view of suggestions made by FMA and the ECA
Committee bn the Far East for amending CAC 160, the
Interdivislonal Committee on the Far East reopened
consideration of this document. Mr. Remer informed
the Committee that these changes were necessary
to bring the Japanese economic policy document in
line with the German economic policy documents.
Mr. Dooman answered that the Far Eastern Committee
should decide the policies for Japan on the basis of
those factors relevant to the Japanese problem. Mr.
88
Wooley (CD) argued that,since the Far East Committee
6
4.50/9-144
differs from the German Committee policy it is.
incumbent upon the Far East Committee to account for
such differenees. Mr. Dooman and several other members
of the Committee denied that the Committee was competent
to make comparative studies of the Japanese and German
situations. Mr. Wright stated that the Far East Com-
mittee doouments are in accordance with the acknowledged
policies of the United States and are consistent with
International Law. He offered the opinion that the
German Committee had deviated from American policies
and International Law and that, consequently, 1t seemed
to be incumbent upon the German Committee to ezplain
2
its deviations. Mr. Blakeslee, Chairman, summed up
81948
the discussion by pointing out that there seemed to
be agreement that the German and Japanese economic
policies need not be identical but should be based on
the essential factors relevant to each situation and
to the principles of American Foreign Policy. He
took cognizance of the desire of some members of the
Committee to have an elaborate explanation of reasons
for the Far Eastern Committee decision on a policy
CSA
different from that of the German Committee.
The Committee began to discuss specific changes
which ECA recommends 1n CAC 160. A discussion on the
inclusions of private property as a contribution towards
reparations ensued but no decision was reached.
8
DCR-OFD UNIT
LRD:JRF:JK
50
th
List.
144

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.95)
ENT
INCOMING
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
TELEGRAM
ATE
AND RECORDS
DaAte
PLATN
BJR - 444
1年
Bern
Dated September 2, 1944
894.50/9-244
Rec'd 9:07 p.m.
aile
Secretary of State,
Washington.
5789, SEcond
Following itEms on JapanEsE Economic developmEnts
taken from publications availablE herE.
(OnE) ProductivE capacity Manchurian iron and
steEl industry now (Junε) about onE-half that Japan
proper. Manchurian pig iron output first and sEcond
quarters 1943 was 112 and 118% corresponding pEriods
1942. Coal production first quarter dropped to 98%
but rEcovered to 110% in sEcond quarter 1943 comparEd
1942. InorEased output appEars on pErmanent bas1s.
894.50/9-244
LargE-scalE utilization coal by Expanding Manchurian
m
Industry has changed Manchuria from coal exporting to
9-4-44
COMMUNICATIONS
lmporting area with coking coal coming from northern
OMM
China.
(Two) Cotton tExtilE factories shifted to other
EP141944
9 to

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.96)
Bsoond, from Bern.
thrmioale and 14 to other industries. Rayon
staple fsber factorits shifted inolude 1l to
tmicals, 9 to aircrart parts, 5 to machinery and
4 to other industries, latter inoludes production
airerart, fuels, rubber, fats and oils, paints and
wood veneers for aircraft.
(Three). Excess factory Equipment due lack raw
materials in soda industry is being transferred over
seas or shifted to production magnesium chloridE as
basis for alumina manufacture. By Asahi and Tokuyama
mEthode limE stonE is mixed with sEa water to makE
magnesium hydroxidE which is then madE into magnesium
carbonatE by usE carbolic acid and nExt into magnEsium
ohloridE by agency limE chloridE. Toyo Soda Kaisha
will manufacturE alumina by End yEar with present plans
calling for transfer alumnitE from north Ghina to chief
plant Onoda CEment and manufacturE therE into olinker
which Toyo will make into alumina.
HARRISON

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.96)
90
1944.
FMA--Mr. Collado
9
ral
FMA--Mr. Remer
145
SUBJECT:
Economic Policy toward Japan.
C
Be
Here are two versions of a statement of American
economic policy toward Janen for your consideration  It i
proposed to bring about the examination and discussfon of
the subject on the part of the interested officers of ECA
as soon as possible and to bring to the attention ot the Far
Eastern Area Committee any statement upon which we can get
agreement within ECA.
894.50/9-1144
We believe that either of the attached versions would
be improved by a fuller statement on economic control over
Japan, but we have not yet had time to attempt this. Economic
control should begin at once and should be continued through
the first period under the military with an advisory group of
civilians. No other arrangement would fit with the conditions
that are expected during this period.
During the second period economic control should be
carried out by a civilian commission with military advisers.
One of the subcommissions should take over the problem of
reparations. The civilian controlled commission ought to
come to an end with the end of close supervision over the
C
Japanese economy, which ought to mean the end, also, of re-
S
paration payments. No control commission operating in Japan
is proposed for the third period. The incorporation of a
statement of the sort indicated above will be discussed with
in ECA.
We look forward to your comments on these efforts and
hope that you will give them to us as soon as you conveniently
can.
CPoccehart
894.50
WC.
AuaIS
Oliver C. Lockhart
C. F. Remer
FMA: CFR:al

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
94-44-CFR
91
ZORTYAR AMERIGAN EGGNCHLO ROLIOX TOYARD LARAN
Vietory over Japan will bring an end to a period during which
international economic relations in the Far East have been in-
ereasingly dominated by the economic aggression of Japan, which
accompanied its political and military aggression. The United
States will be called upon to play an important part in the
establishment of the new conditions whioh will follow the complete
defeat or Japan. Preparation to meet the great and unaviodable
responsibilities of the United States involves agreement within
894.50/9-1144
the United States and among the United Nations upon economio
poliey toward Japan, An agreed statement of Amerioan polioy is
the first requisite.
A general statement of Amerioan policy will,in addition, provide
the basis for the formulation or more detailed polioy and for the
interpretation of the guides and direotives in whioh the detalled
pelioy is expressed.
Immediate and long-run economio policles with respeot to Japan
differ in some respects, but they are so interrelated as to make
a single general statement highly desirable. Suoh a statement
will make immediate and longer run policy more consistent and
facilitate the transition from the one to the other.
I. THE FUNDAKENTAL

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.96)
92
—2-
CHTAL ORIEITIYER OZ AMERIGAN EOONGNNG ROLIOK TOMARD
The ultimate objeetive of the foreign polley of the United
States, and therefere of its economio foreign polioy, is pease.
The immediate objeetive at the end of the war will be the
complete removal of any renewed threat of Japanese military
aggressien and the immediate emphasis will be upon the dis-
arming of Japan and the striot control of the Japanese war
potential.
Economio foroign polioy aims in the long run at the creation
and maintenance of international economio relations whioh
support continued peace. But the domestio situation must be
taken into account and the aim of sconomic foreign poliay
should inolude domestio sconomic conditions whioh are consist-
ent with lasting peace.
The traditional polioy of the United States in the Far East
has expressed the Aperican desire for peace over a consider-
able period of time. It was upheld in the negotiations which
preseded the Japanese attack upon Pearl Harbor and has been
defended by force of arms since this attack. It inoludes re-
speot for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ohina
and the other nations of the Far East, support for the prineiple
of equality inoluding equality of commeroial opportunity, anmd
respect for treaty.engagements and orderly procedure in inter-
national relations.
In the

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
93
一8-
In the view of the Government of the United Seates enduring
pease in the Far East requires the translation of the ultimate
ebjective of the treditional polioy of the United States into
an adequate general policy and into the concrete measures by
which the general polioy is to be oarried out at the end of
the war. Eoonomio polioy, in some respeots separable from
other features of polioy, is fundamentally the eoonomio aspeet
of general polioy and of the measures for ite attainment.
It is not intended that eoonomio polioy toward Japan should
take the plaoe of the instrumentalities which carry the pri-
mary responsibility for the maintenance of peace and seourity.
The funotion of eoonomic polioy is to support these instru-
mentalities, both in the short and the long run.
The immediate objective of economic polioy at the olose of
the war will require the establishment of controls over the
Japanese economy. The ultinate objectives make it clear that
such controls are not for punitive purposes; nor are these
controls over Japan to be continuous. Continuous controls
over Japan would be costly in both human and monetary terms
and would bring no enduring seourity; nor is it to be sup-
posed that the United States would be willing to maintain
them over a long period or time.
Economio measures whioh are a part of general international
arrangements for colleotive seourity should not be planned
for

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
94
Japan alone, but for application to any pewer whese msts
are deemed to constitute a threat to peace. American sconomie
pelioy toward Japan should fit into any general plan established
to maintain pease and security.
II. GENERAL OALEOTIVES
The desire for peace and the traditional Par Kastern policy
of the United States demand statement in terms of the situation
which may be expected in the Far East at the end of the war.
Suoh a statement of general postwar objectives in the economio
field inoludes the following:
1. The effeotive restraint of Japan from economio aggression
as well as from aggression in the political or military
fiold.
2. The provision to China, with her rightful territories
restored to her, of an opportunity to achieve a position
of economic and industrial importance in the Far East.
3. The assurance to the new states whioh will arise in
the Far East, suoh as Korea and the Philippine Common-
wealth, of an unhampered opportunity to enter into econ-
opio relations with other states on a basis of equality.
4. Such use of the controls over Japan during the early
postwar years as to oreate the greatest possibility that
the industrial and commeroial revival of Japan will support,
and will not threaten, the development of demooraoy within
Japan and of interdependenoe and equality in the inter
national

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
一 8-
95
national ssonemio relations of the country.
S. The establishment of suoh sconomic and politisal
conditions in the Far East south of China and Japan as
will tend to prevent any renewal of economic aggression
on the part of Japan by aiding peaceful economio develop-
ment which will, in turn, support appropriate political
development.
There is little doubt that certain of these general economio
objeotives will be olosely related to plans and measures look-
ing toward impooved international economic cooperation through
out the world. In addition there may be other measures oapable
of application in the Far East whioh will effeotively supplement
Amerloan economio polioios toward Japan. The Government of the
United states should make clear its desire to adapt and utilise
such plans and measures in the Far East. The measures here re-
ferred to may well inolude the establishment of a general system
of armaments regulation, the regulation of international trans-
portation by sea or air, and the control of restriotive inter
national agreements among private corporations. American econ-
omio polioy should inolude the requirement that Japan play a
full part on a basis of equality in the development of inter-
national institutions in the economic field.
III. APECIAL ASPECTA OF THE JAPANESE SITUATION: THE CAIBO DECISIONS
The postwar situation of Japan will be strongly influenoed by
certain measures whioh have already been determined at Cairo
and which

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
96
 which will bring akout, en the defeat of Japan, the heeakup
of the Japanese Eapire. There is little deubs that the palitieal
and payehslogical censequenses vill be poverful. The eesmemis
remilts should be given their full weight in the determinatien
ef Amerisan sscnomic pelicy.
The removal of Kerea, Formosa, and certain Pasific islands
frem Japanese pelitisal control and the elimination of sush
oontrol from Hanahuria will reduce at onee the capasity of
Japan to carry on war and will faeilitate the control of the
Japanese war potential.
Japan attempted to solve certain problems of trades and econemie
relations in the Far East by conquest and empire building.
The effort to extend this and to set up a so-called "Coprosper-
1ty Sphere" has falled and the failure will earry with it the
loss of the Empire itself. The problems of trade and of eeon-
omie relations in the Far East will remain, however, and they
will demand a solution consistent with peace and the equality
of states.
The economie polioy of the Dnited States has not in the past
provided any support for special regional soonomie arrangements.
Ne change in this respect is expeoted, least of all sush a
change as would be to the commercial and economie advantage er
Japan. American economic poliey should, on the contrary, be
dirested to the maintenance of equality in the economie relations
between

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
97
一7-
apan and its former dependencies,whether these dependencies
are to be independent, as in the case of Korea, or to form a
part of other political entities. The maintenance of equality
will be faoilitated by the elimination of Japanese economio
control through Japanese corporations or otherwise. The elimina-
tion of suoh control is not inoonsistent with trade and ecenomie
interdependence. The establishment of equality and of economie
interdependence constitutes a special problem whioh will be in-
fluenced by the postwar commercial polioy of the United States
and of the other trading nations of the world.
IV. TIME PERIODS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF ECONOMIC POLIOX TOWARD JAPAN
The distinotion between short run and long run polioy toward
postwar Japan is fundamental. Japan will be a dcfeated enemy
and aggressor. Only after the demands for security have been
met will other aspects of future relations with Japan come up
for consideration.
The application of economic polioy must be related to the steps
which are planned in the application of military measures and
of general political policy. Three periods are contemplated.
The first is one of drastic enforcement of the terms of surrender
including the disarming of the country and full military eccupa-
tion. The second is one of olose control to facilitate desired
developments in the general political field, and the third one
of gradual development on the part of Japan toward the final
goal of willingness and ability to play.a peaceful and responsible
part in orderly international relations.
The three

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
98
一8
 three perieds may without dirrieulty be adapted to the
dsvelepment of esonomic polioy. The first period, that of
the disarming of Japan and the maintenanse of a minimm Japan-
ese seonemy, will call for cmergenoy measures. The second
peried, that of contrel, rits with the need to redwee so far
as possible the Japanese eoonomio war potential and to bring
about reparation payments. The third may from the economie
viewpoint be called that of the gradual integration of Japan
into a world economy. The aspects of economic policy associated
with the three periods are dealt with in the seotions which
follow.
It is essential in working out the economic meamures to give
more than general indications of the timing of these thres
periods and the heart of the problem is the length of the
second period, that of close control. The first period will
obviously be mhort and will call for cconomic measures of a
teaperary sort. The third period hardly requires estimation
in years, since it is expected to merge with an inderinite
period of normal economio relations with Japan. The second
period, however, is closely related to general economio polisy
and to reparation provisions and should be estimated in terms
of years at as early a time as possible.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
99
- 0 -
RIHARHAHENT AND THE MAINTENANCE OF A KINIMUN JAPAHERE ECONONX
The defeat of Japan will be followed by suoh measures as the
military and naval authorities of the United Nations deem
neoeseary to bring about the effeotive disarmament of the country.
The destruotion of war equipment, the dismantling of military
and naval installations, and steps to prevent the manufecture
of military equipment,inoluding military airoraft, are measures
in accordance with the requirement of immediate seourity.
Eoonomio polioy 1s not the first consideration in this conneotion,
but it has minor importance and oalls for the conversion, rather
than the destruotion, of equipment whioh is capable of peace
time civilian use. It is probable that the desired results
will be best aohieved if the task 1s put into the hands of com-
petent technical persons.
The defeet of Japan may threaten the failure of the whole coon-
omio mechanism of the country, whioh must funotion if disease
and starvation are to be prevented. The military authorities
should therefore be prepared to take immediats steps to prevent
economio collapse.
It will be desirable to take further steps, however, and to
assure the maintenance of a minimum economy in Japan during the
period following the end of hostilities. The measures whioh
are indicated inoludes
1. The provision

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
100
-20-
X. The provision of relief.
2. The maintenanee of transportation, whether by sea
or land.
5. The maintenance of financial facilities.
4. The control of inflation.
5. The restoration of the international movement of
certain goods.
The maintenance of a minimum Japanese economy demands also the
fumetioning of the necessary administrative machinery and the
sentinued service of the desired ofricials should be required
in the terms of surrender.
Provision should be made during the early months of ocoupation
for the setting up in Japan of a reparation commission appointed
in advance and provided with a small staff of previously trained
officials. This commission should undertake at an early date
the first measures looking tovard restitution and reparation.
Sinee the control of the international movement of goods will
be required for some time, the reparation commission might be
organised as a sub-commission of a more general foreign trade
control commission.
I. RESTITUTION AND REPARATION
Japan will be required to provide reparation to the countries
which are the viotims or Japanese aggression. Japan will also
be required to return identifiable solen property and to
relinquish

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.96)
101
-21-
uish all rights, elaims and controls over property in
supied ceuntries whieh has been obtained by force, duress
or fral.
The nature of the provisions for reparation should be sush as
to mupport, or interfere as little as possible with, the long
rum eoonomic and other objectives of American poliey set forth
in this and in other related memoranda.
Japanese reparation will come from Japanese overseas holdings,
from existing stooks of materials and capital equipment, and
from murrent produotion. These must be the souroes, also, of
payments to meet other than reparation olaims which may exist
at the end of the war. Consideration should be given to the
presentation of suoh olaims through the rsparation commission.
It is expeoted that an important contribution to reparation
will be the surrender of Japanese property abroad. The prin-
eiple should be accepted that both publio and private property
may be taken. Unless property which is private,or appears to
be private,may be taken it will not be possible to break the
Japanese control over important parts of the economy of other
countries. This control should be broken in order to give the
dependenoies a fair opportunity to become independent of Japan,
to render simple justice to the ocoupied countries, and to areate
conditions at once favorable to peaceful international economio
relations and unfavorable to the renewal of Japanese economie
aggression.
It 2s

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
102
-18-
s nst sertain how far the astion of the individual countries
sause of differenees in domestie law or in the interpretation
'of international law. Every effort mhould be made to bring
about consistenay in the seisure of property, in the recognition
of its relation to reparation olaims,. and in the polioy of the
Japanese Government toward the owners. It is desirable, also,
to bring abous the exemption from seisure of small private hold-
ings of resident Japanese.
Another source of reparation will be the surrender of oertain
categories of existing stocks of materials and oapital equipment
in Japan. The importanoe of this 1tem will depend largely on
the extent of future destruotion within and outside of Japan,
the relative desirability of payment in this form as compared
with larger payments out of ourrent produotion, and United
Nations polioy with respeot to the control of the Japanese
economio war potential.
Additional reparation will also be demanded from current pro-
duation. Any obligation of this sort should be determined pri-
marily with regard to Japan'a capacity to pay. The annual amount
of muoh payment which may be demanded is the excess of Japanese
produotion above that required to maintain a presoribed minimum
standard of living, taking into account the exports which may
be necessary to pay for essential imports. The total amount of
sueh payment will depend on the period of years over whieh re-
paration

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
103
- 18 -
aratien payments will be required. It should be understood
that the governing factor is the determination of the time
period. This period should be short and in no event should
it run beyond ten years.
Payment should be prodominantly by the direct transfer of
goods and services for domestic uss by the recipient country.
The shorter the period the greater will be the need for arrange-
ments to provide indirect payment through the reparation com-
mission.
II. THE CONTROL OF THE JAPANESE ECONOMIC HAR POTENTIAL
Control over the economio war potential of Jepan after the
war should reinforoe and supplement the military and naval
disarming of the country. At the same time it should be con-
sistent, so far as possible, with the long run eoonomio ob-
Jeotives of the United States.
The minimizing of the war potential should begin with the des-
truction, digmantling, or conversion to peace-time uses of the
plants produoing war supplies and equipment. After effeotive
disarmament under competent direction an provided for above,
the emphasis should be upon conversion rather than destruotion.
The control over the Japanese eoonomy should be suoh as to make
it possible to require the prompt conversion or sorapping of
any partioular plant.
The general prinoiple to be followed is that no peace-time in-
dustry should be denied to the Japanese with two important
exceptions

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
104
-24-
aptiens : Japan should be prohibited from the memufasture
of sivilian airoraft and from the construetion of vessels
whiah are essentially auxiliary to naval use.
The provisions for reparation inolude payment by the transfer
of materials and capital equipment in existence in Japan at the
end of the war. These provisions should be related to the contrel
of the war potential by requiring the shipment to countries will-
Ing to receive them of stook piles of strategio materials and
of plants seleoted because they have been olosely related to
the produotion of war material.
The economic war potential of an industrialized country such
as Japan is the result of many factors. The destmuotion, re-
moval, or conversion of plants producing war materials and equip-
ment will eliminate but one factor and that only in part, for it
must be recognized that industrialisation entirely devoted to
peace is still a factor in preparedness for war. Direct control
over plants mist, therefore, be supplemented by other measures.
The geographioal situation of Japan suggests the first of these
meamures, the control of imports to Japan of strategio materials
such as petroleum, iron and steel and bauxite. The requirements
for legitimate peace-time industry may be closely estimated and
stookpiling prevented. It may be possible to exeroise or to
reinforce these measures by action taken outside of Japan and
in the exporting countries as a result of agreement among the
nations chnoerned.
The economie

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
105
-15 -
ésonomio poliay of Japan has brought about by trade
barriers, subsidies, or by other devices industrialization
which would not have been stimulated if it had not been re-
lated to war. We enter here into an area of polioy which
runs all the way from praotices plainly related to war, to
efforts to establiah self-sufficiency and finally to tho main-
tenance of high cost industries for a variety of reasons, such
as politioal pressure and favoritism. The authorities in control
of the Japanese economy muat determine in the particular case
whether the minimizing of the war potential oalls for the re-
moval of support.
American policy toward the economio war potential of Japan
merges with polioy toward the internal economy of Japan and
toward the ultimate integration of Japan into a world economy.
The period of control over Japan, which has been referred to
above as the aecond period from the poinb of view of economie
polioy, should certainly be long enough to bring the economio
war potential to a minimum.
VIII. CONTROL OVER THE INTERNAL ECONOMY OE JAPAN
American economio policy requires that there be sufricient
control over Japan to bring about subatantial reparation
payments and the reduotion of Japanese oapaoity to wage war.
This means fairly extensive control over the internal economy
of Japan and the control should be so used as to support the
general economio objeotives of the United States.
There

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
106
-16 -
There are important limitations upon Amerioan or United
Nations comtrol over the Japanese economy. These arise
from the barrier of language which limits the number of
military and oivil officials who are prepared to undertake
effective administration and from the fact that knowledge of
the law and adminlatrative procedure of Japan is l1mited.
Difference of race needs to be taken into consideration.
Forelgn control of Japan means control by other races and it
must mean after this war control by those of the white raoe.
It would be inconsistent with the objectives of the United
States to fix in the minds of the Japanese for a longer period
than 1s necessary the fear and hatred of the white race whioh
now exists and which will increase as the complete defeat of
Japan is brought about.
These considerations lead to the concluslon that the period of
control should be carefully planned and that it should be re-
latively short. They do not indicate that it can or should
be avoided. The policies to be pursued and the results to
be sought during the period of necessary control are indicated
below..
1. The oconomio correlaries of the objectives of agreed
political polioy toward Japan should be determined and
accepted as objectives of economic policy.
2. The attempt should be made to eliminate the forms
of industrial and oommeroial organization within Japan
whioh have been a factor in Japanese aggression and
might

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
107
-17-
might again support a threat to peace and sesurity.
S. The intermatienal astivities of the great sorperations
ef Japam should be examined and brought inte conformity
wish pesserul economie develepment outside of Japan,
espesially in the Far East. International intereerporate
relations, for example, should be subjeot to sush re-
strietions and regulation as may be undertaken by pest-
war institutions.
4. Any obstaoles to the organization of labor in Japam
which may now exist in Japanese law or administration
should be set aside during the period of control.
5. During the period of control the banking syatem of
Japan should be dealt with as if it were separate from
the great corporations and should be encouraged to make
funds available to small independent enterprises.
IX. THE INTEGRATION OF JAPAN INTO HORLD ECONONY
A general objective of American economie polioy to-
ward Japan, the integration of Japan into a world eoonomy,
will become the major objeotiye during the period which
follows that of close control. Japan must find a place
in a sommunity of free nations if the ultimate aim of
Amerioan polioy is to be reached.
An important feature of this development should be the
rejection by Japan of the principles of exolusivemess and
demination in the international nsoonomie fisld which have
marked

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
108
-18-
marked Japanese polley in the Far East, espeeially in the
resent past. Eoonomio interdependence is an unaveidable
condition of a satisfactory economio life in Japan. The
loss of the dependeneies will inorease and extend the econ-
omie interdependence of Japan. If in the future Japan proceeds
onee more to draw the conolusion frem the fact of economie
interdependence that economic exolusiveness and political
domination should be attempted, the result will be failure
to attain the objeotive of peace. The outstanding problem
of American and United Nations economio polioy is to bring
about the peaceful aoceptance or economio interdependence by
Japan. It should be recognized that economic policies are
here involved which reach beyond any partioular country or
region.
The United States Government holds the folloving measures
to be in mocordance with its objeotives and will seek by
appropriate means to bring them into effeot.
Japan should be prevented from establishing any Japanese con-
trolled sconomio bloo or area of soonomio dozination outside
of Japan by means of commerolal polioy or methods related to
finanos or investments.
Japanese products of industry and agrioulture should be more
fully exposed to world competition so that high cost industries
may be eliminated. Such industries usually refleot a desire
for

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
-19 -
109
for military or eeonomle self-sufficieney and aheck the
greater prosperity that would follow the acceptanee of a
more extensive international division of labor.
Japan should be required to organise and administer its
business and other economio institutions in consonance with
suah international polities and institutions as may be es-
tablished for the world eoonomy as a whole.
Japan should, on the other hand, be allowed to trade on a
basis of equality with other nations and should be afrorded
an opportunity to seoure through legitimate trade the goods
which are needed for the maintenance and development of the
Japanese eoonomy.
The United States should avoid, and should seek to influence
other countries to avoid, disorimination or other bärriers
against Japanese trade which are inoonsistent with the scon-
omio polioies set forth in this statement. As a condition of
receiving suoh treatment Japan ahould be required to adopt and
carry out similar petietes foreign trade policies.
It is recognized that foreign trade is the first and greatest
fastor in the prosperity of Japan. Without a great foreign
trade Japan cannot hope to improve, or even to maintain, the
living conditions of her people. The final integration of
Japan into a world sconomy cannot be aahieved unless other
countries are willing to pursue appropriate policies on their
pars

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.96)
110
-20 -
fars and to develop agensies of international collaboration.
But the interest of Japan in foreign trade is so everwhelming
as to make it reasonable to suppose that Japan may not delay,
in the presence of firm and wise polioy on the part of others,
efferts to bring about integration into a world economy when
military defeat has completed its drastic demonstration of the
fusility of the methods Japan has pursued in the recent past.
September 6, 1944

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.96)
MeMOrandum · UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
21, 1944
Mr. Oliver Lockhart
DEC 2 2 1944
The draft copy of the document "Economic Policy Toward
Japan: Summary Statement" is, in the opinion of this
Division, a distinct improvement over the former documents
prepared on this subject. It appears to be more compre-
hensive than former treatments and better balanced in its
emphasis upon the various aspects of economic policy. It
also attempts to relate the policy toward Japan to the
larger framework of United States policy toward the Far
East including China in particular.
Central
OC/R F
document to regard monopolistic businesses narrowly and as
exclusively internal phenomena (pp.10-1l) gives an in-
complete account of Jepanese monopolies and leaves the way
open for inadequate policy determination. The responsibality
of these monopolies for a distorted internal economic
894.50/9-1144
development (p.lo) and the incompatibility of these orga1-
zations with a peaceful Japan which affords economic op-
portunity for all classes (p.ll) are briefly touched upon.
A fuller recognition of the importence of these concerns
to the growth of Japanese military strength would call
for tracing briefly their contribution to the growth of
14.15,
the Japanese war potential and would suggest the inclusio
in Section VI on pp. 18-19 of measures to deel with the
large Japanese firms.
It is not brought out in the document that the
domestic economic position of the monopolies and their
desire to maintain that position have ceused them to in-
vade external markets and have permitted them to be em-
ployed as instruments of Japanese aggression. The mono-
polies, it is believed, thus constitute an important
element in carrying out the aggressive program of the
Japanese Government as well as in developing the internal
4
economy for war. In Thailend, to take one example, Mitsui
and Mitsubishi have been the main purchasers of Thai rice,
ε
tin and rubber, and the main source of Thai imports of
munitions end civilian goods. As importers; these concerns
largely
DC/
7
Anal.5
W

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
lergely control Thsi foreign trade; as retailers, they
distribute imported Japanese weres; and as bankers and manu-
facturers, they monopolize Thai industries. It is believed
that the development of United States economic policy
towerd Jepanese monopolies recuires that fuller considera-
tion be given to the external as well es the internal ac-
tivities of these business organizations because both
types of activity are governed by a single business policy.
The activities of the Japenese monopolies have been
similar to those of the German firms such as the I. G.
Farbenindustrie. It is presumed that the United States
policy towerd them should be guided by the policy relating
to the Germen mononolies in so far as the issues are
paral.lel.
NmC
CD:WMR:MC

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.97)
111
MeMOrAndum · UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: Sept. 23, 1944
FMA: Mr. Collado
FMA:
Mr. Lockhart
Economic Policy Toward Japan
SEP 2 6 1944
The attached paper should be considered in
eonnection with its background and basic assumptions.
As you know, the paper originally was conceived of
as paralleling the Germany document (ECEFP D-36/44).
Furthermore, it is premised on a conception of political
Piles
Central
This Dooument Must Be Returned to
policy toward vanquished countries derived not only from
various published expressions of opinion on general
post-war economic policy, but specifically from the
declaration of the Atlantic Charter in favor of multi-
lateral trade and economic interdependence among nations.
But governmental opinion on policy toward vanquished
countries now appears to be indeterminate.
A most severe element in the treatment to be given
Japan is laid down in the Cairo decisions. The people
and the civil government of Japan have for many years
followed the military on a road that has led to repeated
victories. Already there must be presentiment in Japan
that in this instance the road leads to a radically
different ending. That presentiment will be confirmed
by landings on Japanese soil and by military occupation,
however brief. This can hardly fail to bring a widespread
disillusionment to the Japanese people which may in itself
be sufficient to lead them to pursue in the future policies
that might readily lead to integration of their economy
with those of peace-loving nations.
The thought expressed in the immediately preceding
paragraph is not developed at any length in the paper
before you. Nor has the difference in character of treat-
ment in the first time-period of military occupation as
compared with later periods been stressed particularly
on the score of relative severity.
DC/B
I doubt seriously whether it is practicable to follow
a line of economic policy toward Japan radically different
C
from that set out in the accompanying paper. If, however,
S
the basic assumptions as to political policy that underlie
the paper are inaccurate to any considerable degree, it
工
ill probably be found that the paper must be rewritten in
dat114
onsiderable part,at least on the score of emphasis and tone
H
h
Attachment
FMA:OCL:ec
Diriscan of Financial and Monetary Affairs

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
4f Suljist of Late 9/16/44
112
introduction: Why a Statement Now.
End of Japanese military, political, and economic
aggression.
Inter-relations of short and long-run policies.
Aid in formulating United Nations guides and directives.
I.
IMPLICATIONS OF FOREIGN POLICY FOR ECONOMIC POLICY.
General foreign policy as reflected in the traditional
policy of the United States in the Far East.
The respective roles of military, political, and economic
arrangements in attaining peace.
The Open Door policy in China versus imperialistic
aggression in the Far East.
The development of China as a bulwark of Far Eastern peace.
Economic foreign policy is concerned both with international
economic relations that support peace and with domestic
prosperity in the various nations..
II. THE CAIRO DECISIONS.
Empire dismemberment has political and psychological
implications and conditions measures of economic policy.
Japan must continue to receive food and materials from
abroad and her former dependencies must have markets.
War industries in dependencies.
Japanese shipping and dependence upon foreign trade.
Regionalism versus interdependence in trade and equality
in economic relations.
III. GENERAL ECONOMIC OBJECTIVES.
Underlying objective involves control of Japanese war
potential and internal economy pending integration.
Specific objectives.
Comprehensive

=== Page 99 === (confidence 1.00)
113
-2-
Comprehensive and self-consistent policy will take
account of world conditions.
Controls are not punitive or solèly to force compliance
but look toward international economic arrangements
among all nations.
Interim control mechanisms are intended to lead to
improved international cooperation.
IV. TIME PERIODS.
1. Measures of military occupation should be adjusted
so far as possible to longer run policies.
2. Close control of war potential including inspection.
Duration of second period.
3. Gradual integration accompanied by external controls.
V. MINIMU ECONOMY.
Immediate problems during occupation.
VI. RESTITUTION AND REPARATION.
Demands versus capacity.
Return of stolen property and reparation from existing
materials and capital equipment.
.Reparation from labor services not favored.
The measure of annual reparation from current production:
minimum standard of living;
Exports to pay for essential imports.
Direct transfer versus cash transfer.
How Japanese may obtain reduction in reparation requirements.
Why private property in occupied areas cannot generally
be retained by Japanese.
Accounting

=== Page 100 === (confidence 1.00)
114
-3-
Accounting for reparation, especially from private property.
Japanese debts abroad and possible offsets.
Reparation requirements should support economic objectives.
Reparation Commission possibly as sub-commission of foreign
trade control.
VII. ECONOMIC WAR POTENTIAL.
Destruction during occupation.
Current controls, especially import controls, of war potential.
VIII. JAPANESE INTERNAL ECONOMY.
Controls are necessary to destruction of war potential and
collection of substantial reparation but should gradually
be fitted into the general international organization.
Race and personnel problems of control.
Zaibatsu abroad and at home.
Revised banking and labor legislation and practice.
IX. INTEGRATION INTO WORLD ECONOLY.
Controls should encourage a receptive attitude toward
integration.
Elimination of effort at self-sufficiency regardless of cost.
Adjustment of economic institutions to free economy.
Importance of international collaboration.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 1.00)
115
ECONOMIC POLICY TOWARD JAPAN
The victory of the United Nations over Japan will bring to an
end the period of Japanese aggression. The military, political
and economic phases of aggression have been intimately inter-
related and mutually supporting. No permanent peace can be
hoped for unless these several means of aggression are brought
under control.
It is important that United States economic policy toward Japan
should be formulated as definitely as possible well in advance
of the day when victory will call for its immediate application.
While the post-war era may usefully be divided into time periods
for purposes of analysis of objectives, the policies which will
guide action to be taken under the pressure of immediate urgency
should be consistent with those concerned with long-run economic
objectives, for economic processes are in large measure continuous.
The policies to be applied should be comprehended in one general
statement. Such a statement should bring out the inter-relations
of immediate and long-run policies and should facilitate the
transition from the period of drastic military control immediately
following surrender to a period of more general control and re-
orientation of the Japanese economy.
Determination at this time of the general objectives of United
States economic policy toward Japan should permit consultation
with, and consideration by, the United Nations that have actively
participated

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
116
-2-
feipated in the war against Japan and should constitute a
pontribution toward general agreement on economic policy among
the United Nations. The general statement of objectives of
economic policy should provide important assistance in the
formulation of guides and directives and in their interpretation
and application to particular situations by the occupation
authorities.
I.
IMPLICATION OF UNITED STATES FOREIGN POLICY FOR ECONOMIC
POLICY, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE FAR EAST.
Economic foreign policy must be based on and consistent with
general foreign policy. The paramount aim of United States
foreign policy is enduring peace. The traditional policy of
the United States in the Far East has expressed the American
desire for peace over a considerable period of time. That
policy includes respect for the territorial integrity and
sovereignty of China and the other nations of the Far East,
support for the principle of equality, and respect for treaty
engagements and orderly procedure in international relations.
It was upheld in the negotiations that preceded the Japanese
attack upon Pearl Harbor and has been defended by force of arms
since that attack.
The attainment of the objective of enduring peace involves not
only military features but political and economic arrangements
as well. The destruction of existing military establishments
and the maintenance of peace and order in vanquished countries
during

=== Page 103 === (confidence 1.00)
117
-3
ing the period of occupation are obviously the task of the
military and naval forces. Preparedness adequate to check at
its inception any future attempt at military aggression is the
task both of those forces and of the legislative or appropria-
ting power. The creation of, and United States participation
in, a general international organization for the maintenance
of peace and security throughout the world is the task of
political agencies. Economic measures cannot provide a sub-
stitute for, but can and should support, these means of achiev-
ing peace by helping to create conditions in the economic sphere
that will tend to remove the danger of future aggression from
whatever source.
On the economic side, the paramount aim of United States foreign
policy found expression in the Open Door policy in China and has
elsewhere supported the principle of equality of commercial
opportunity. It has recently been expressed in the declaration
of the Atlantic Charter in favor of equality of opportunity
among nations. Japan's attempt at hegemony in the Far East,
political and economic, ran headlong into the Open Door and
related policies. United States foreign policy in the Far East
thus came to be specifically directed to the prevention of
imperialistic aggression, whether sought by force of arms or
by initially peaceful devices for controlling trade and invest-
ment in the interest of the aggressor country.
In consequence

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
118
-4-
consequence both of the historical interest of the United
States in China and perhaps of Japan's failure to maintain
peace during the period of her ascendency in that quarter,
United States Far Eastern policy has inclined toward the
development of a strong and united China as a bulwark of peace
in the Far East. China is well equipped by resources of popu-
lation and natural wealth to assume a more important place in
world industry and commerce. Such a development would enlarge
the political power and influence of China in the Far East and
that influence, it is confidently believed, would be exerted
toward the maintenance of international peace.
Economic foreign policy thus has as its fundamental objective
the creation and maintenance of international economic relations
that are consistent with and support continued peace. But it
is not enough to focus attention on international economic
relations if the domestic situation in the various countries
of the world is not one of reasonable prosperity. Consequently,
economic foreign policy in the post-war world must embrace
within its scope the development of conditions that make for
prosperity in the conquered countries as well as in the member
states of the United Nations.
II. THE CAIRO DECISIONS AND ECONOMIC POLICY TOWARD JAPAN.
Japan attempted to solve certain problems of trade and economic
relatic:s

=== Page 105 === (confidence 1.00)
119
-5
tations in the Far East by an effort, supplemented by force
of arms, to build an economic empire. The failure of the so-
called "co-prosperity sphere" carries with it the loss of the
overseas empire as well. The statement issued following the
conference in North Africa announced the purpose to strip Japan
of Pacific Islands seized or occupied since August 19l4 and all
the territories stolen from the Chinese; to expel Japan from all
other territories taken by violence and greed; and ultimately
to restore Korea to independence. These purposes not only have
strong political and psychological implications; they also
condition the specific measures of economic policy to be applied
in Japan.
Japan has drawn from her overseas holdings no inconsiderable
part of her food supply and industrial materials. In many
cases these supplies were obtained at high cost which could
the
be/better supported since it did not require to be paid in
foreign exchange. To the extent that these supplies are
requisite for the maintenance of an acceptable standard of
living in Japan, they must be provided from the same or other
countries of origin, and in any case payment for them can no
longer be effected within the yen bloc. Moreover, general
economic policy must be such as to enable these former over-
seas holdings to find an adequate market for their products.
Although the greater number of the islands that recently came
under

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
120
-6-
der Japanese control are of strategic rather than economic
importance, a considerable amount of industrial equipment
used largely for war purposes has been installed in many of
them. ▲ similar situation is found in the dependencies long
attached to Japan, such as Korea and Formosa, and in other
occupied areas, particularly in Manchuria. The elimination
of Japanese political control in these areas will at once
reduce the capacity of Japan to wage war. Moreover, these
investments will require to be taken into account in determining
policy with respect to both foreign trade and reparations.
To the extent that the development of Japanese shipping is
related to her dreams of empire, rather than to her insular
position, the disposition of that shipping at the end of the
war will call for serious consideration. It will represent
no inconsiderable asset to which despoiled countries will
no doubt look for reparation, but Japanese dependence upon
foreign trade and the consequent need of shipping must not be
overlooked in this connection.
The economic policy of the United States provides no support
for special regional arrangements such as Japan attempted to
enforce. Moreover, the Atlantic Charter contemplates equitable
access by all states to the trade and raw materials of the
world. The problem of reorganizing trade and economic relations
in the

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
121
the Far East demands a solution consistent with enduring
peace. American economic policy in the Far East should,
therefore, be directed to the maintenance of interdependence
and equality in economic relations between Japan and its former
dependencies.
III. GENERAL ECONOMIC OBJECTIVES.
The goal of lasting peace and the traditional policies of the
United States in the Far East, as well as international pro-
nouncements on policy in war and in peace, necessarily imply
that economic policies affecting Japan should be directed
primarily (a) to the control of Japan's economic war potential,
and (b) to control over the internal economy of Japan with a
view to the ultimate integration of that country into a free
that
world economy such as/envisaged by the Atlantic Charter.
Specific objectives should have in mind the situation which
may be expected in the Far East at the end of the war and should
include the following:
1. Reconstitution and maintenance of a minimum Japanese
economy;
2. Restitution and reparation;
3. Control of Japan's economic war potential by the con-
version of economic capacity heretofore directed to war purposes
and by measures that will prevent reconversion to a war economy
able

=== Page 108 === (confidence 1.00)
122
-8-
able to launch and sustain a war of aggression;
4. The elimination of Japanese economic domination in
the Far East including:
(a) The provision to China, with her former
territories restored to her, of an opportunity to achieve
a position of economic and industrial importance in the
Far East;
(b) The assurance to the new states that will arise
in the Far East, such as Korea and the Philippine Common-
wealth, of an unhampered opportunity to enter into economic
relations with other states on a basis of freedom and
equality; and
(c) The establishment in a new and improved political
environment of such economic conditions in other areas of
the Pacific that have been under Japanese domination as
will aid peaceful economic development and will, in turn,
support appropriate political development;
5. Removal of the threat of aggression by Japan by the
development of international economic relations and of a domestic
economy that make for lasting peace, recognizing that the insular
position of Japan, the relative paucity of raw and industrial
materials and of arable land in the islands, and the stage of
industrial development in other parts of the Far East, all
combine to make an acceptable standard of living in Japan
dependent

=== Page 109 === (confidence 1.00)
123
-9-
ndent upon a considerable foreign trade which may, with
world-wide cooperation, be used as a principal means of control
toward the ends of peace; and
6. The effectuation in due time, through wise use of
controls during the early post-war years and through the develop-
ment of international agencies concerned with economic relations,
of a fundamental change in the organization and conduct of
Japan's economic life that will integrate Japan into the type
of world economy envisaged by the Atlantic Charter and will
support, rather than threaten, the development of democracy
within Japan and of economic interdependence and equality in
international economic relations.
In seeking to attain these objectives the major aspects of
economic policy with respect to Japan should be so designed as
to fall within the framework of a comprehensive and self-
consistent policy. They should take account of the economic
relations of the Far East with other portions of the world and
should be adjusted from time to time to developing world con-
ditions.
It is not the policy of this Government to use the controls over
the Japanese economy established by the occupation authorities
for punitive purposes or solely to force compliance with United
Nations demands during the occupation period. The economic
policy

=== Page 110 === (confidence 1.00)
124
-10-
micy of this Government with respect to Japan looks to the
future and the work of occupation authorities should be so
directed as to open up new possibilities for an improvement of
the Far Eastern economy as a whole. Economic measures of con-
tinuing control should not be planned for Japan alone but should
fit into general international economic arrangements established
to maintain peace and security among all nations. Japan should
be expected to play a full and equal part in such arrangements.
This Government, therefore, desires to shape the interim control
mechanisms so as to lay the technical groundwork for, or to
preserve the possibility of, improved international cooperation
in the economic field. It is anxious to facilitate the adaptation
of these mechanisms to, and their utilization in, any general
international functional organizations or controls that may be
developed. These should include organizations designed to
establish a general system of armaments regulation, to promote
unification of transport and communication facilities, and to
provide for the prohibition, regulation or control of enduring
international agreements of a restrictive character between
private firms and of such undue concentration of private economic
and financial control of domestic industry and trade as readily
lends itself to manipulation for purposes of nationalistic
aggression, or for purposes inimical to a balanced domestic
economy

=== Page 111 === (confidence 1.00)
125
-11-
nomy and general well-being.
IV.
TIME PERIODS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF ECONOMIC
POLICY TOWARD JAPAN.
Three periods may be distinguished in the development of economic
objectives of the United States toward Japan.
1. The first of these periods is one of stern enforcement
of the directives, military and economic, consequent upon uncon-
ditional surrender. It is not possible at this time to determine
the length of this period but it should be relatively short.
Provisional, temporary, or emergency economic measures will be
required and restitution of stolen or expropriated property and
reparation in the form of equipment and stocks of materials
transferred to claimant countries may assume some importance.
Nevertheless, this will be primarily a period of military
occupation and emphasis will be laid on security measures. The
period will be characterized by disarmament, and - in so far
as they may have escaped in military operations - by destruction
of military and naval stores and installations and, selectively,
of armament plants and machinery suited only to the production
of munitions as determined by competent technicians. These
measures should, so far as possible, be adjusted to longer-run
policies and care should be taken that they should not be
unnecessarily disruptive of established Japanese economy; for
the livelihood of the Japanese people, relief supplies for
other Far Eastern peoples, and the payment of reparation may all
depend

=== Page 112 === (confidence 1.00)
-12-
126
productivity of Japanese industry on at least a minimum level
of effectiveness.
2. The second period will be one of close control of
Japanese economy along some but not necessarily all of the
lines developed during military occupation proper. Interest
will center in reparation and in developing means of enduring
control of the economic war potential. Because of Japan's
insular position the task of controlling the war potential may,
with the cooperation of the United Nations, be lightened by
import controls.
. Within Japan, rigid inspection of industrial
establishments and production will be essential but will fall
short of measures of occupation.
The duration of this second period should depend largely on
developments within Japan and cannot now be precisely determined,
although it should be approximated at as early a date as possible.
For political reasons primarily, relative shortness of the
period is a more important objective than the absolute amount of
reparation. In general, a period not in excess of five years is
favored, but the probable inability of claimant countries against
Japan effectively to use large reparation payments at once may
suggest the wisdom of contemplating a maximum of as much as
ten years.
3. As already

=== Page 113 === (confidence 1.00)
-13-
127
As already indicated, the third period is one of
gradual integration of Japan into a free world economy and may
therefore be of indefinite duration. It is assumed that this
period will be one in which the general international political
organization has been set up and is fully functioning, and that
only such controls over war potential as that organization may
establish would be required. Such controls would presumably
be external, and would be applicable as well to any nation that
appeared to the organization to be building a war potential
beyond that required by its special responsibility for the
maintenance of peace.
V. RECONSTITUTION OR MAINTENANCE OF A MINIMUM
JAPANESE ECONOMY.
Physical destruction in Japan before surrender may conceivably
be so great as to disorganize economic life. The loss of
dependencies and in some measure the process of disarmament will
contribute to similar disorganization. It will be necessary,
therefore, for the occupation authorities to be prepared to give
attention to immediate problems of relief and particularly to
the restoration of transportation facilities. It will also be
necessary to maintain the ordinary processes and agencies of
finance, particularly in their relation to commercial trans-
actions. These immediate problems among others will require
energetic handling as part of the problem of preventing excessive
inflation

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
128
-14-
tion of prices. This will be particularly essential
because of the disruption of overseas trade, which it may
be necessary to restore in part by special measures appli-
cable to particular commodities. In brief, the occupation
authorities must keep the economic machine rolling, even if
not in a truly orderly manner. To this enä it is highly
important that the Japanese civil administrative staff be
kept functioning so far as possible.
VI. RESTITUTION AND REPARATION.
No realistic approach to the post-war problems of the Far East
can fail to contemplate the payment of substantial reparation
by Japan. It would, however, be equally unrealistic to assume
that the just claims of countries ravaged by Japanese aggression
could be taken as a measure of collectible reparation. Such a
sum would far exceed Japan's capacity to pay and would doom to
failure the realization of the economic objectives of the United
States in the Far East, if not in the entire world.
There are, however, certain definite steps that should be taken
toward obtaining reparations as soon as practicable after occupa-
tion. These include the return of identifiable stolen property
and the relinquishment of all rights, claims and controls over
property in occupied countries that have been obtained by duress
or fraud. Moreover, existing materials and capital equipment,
including

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
129
tuding shipping, in Japan that have escaped destruction
hould be transferred to claimant countries as rapidly as those
countries can make effective use of them, but without ignoring
the effects upon peace-time economy that would result from
undue or ill-considered expropriation of such materials and
quipment.
There remains the possibility of reparation from current pro-
duction and from labor services. While it is true that industry
in Far Eastern countries other than Japan might well benefit
from the use of Japanese technicians, supervisors and even skilled
labor, it is a moot question whether such use would not have
highly undesirable psychological and nationalistic repercussions.
Unless further study should seem to warrant some limited use of
labor services, it would seem better to forego any hope of
reparation from this source, lest it should run counter to the
main objective of peace and satisfactory international economic
relationships.
The proposal to obtain reparation from current production suggests
the need of some sort of formula to govern the amount that may
be taken. An annual sum equal to that which Japan has been
devoting to war purposes may be regarded as the upper limit of
payments. Recent statements coming out of Japan indicate that
out of the national income of 60 billion yen only 10 billion are
to be available for the purchase of consumers goods. It seems
inevitable

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
130
ovitable that a standard of living somewhat above that which
the Japanese people have endured in recent years must in human
decency be permitted them. Consequently, it would prove
politically impracticable to collect over any considerable
period any such sum for reparation as Japan has been devoting
to war purposes. The minimum standard of living which must be
permitted cannot be defined precisely. It must be experimental
and somewhat elastic and it may be based on statistical evidence
of the per capita consumption of basic commodities at various
periods in Japan's recent history. In giving effect to such a
standard it would be particularly helpful if the occupation
authorities had found it possible to retain in considerable part
the Japanese staff that had been employed in the rationing of
consumer goods prior to surrender.
Another qualification of any such measure of annual reparation
as that suggested must be noted. To a not inconsiderable ex-
tent Japanese industry, and in some part even Japanese food, is
dependent upon supplies from abroad. These supplies must be
paid for out of the products of Japanese industry. It follows
that the total annual amount available for reparation from
current production constitutes only the excess of that production
over (1) requirements of the minimum standard of living, and
(2) the amount of exports necessary to pay for essential imports.
The tota1

=== Page 117 === (confidence 1.00)
131
-17-
The total amount of reparation to be collected from current
production will obviously depend both on the annual amount and
on the number of years in which it is collected. As previously
indicated, this period should be short and in no event should it
run beyond ten years.
Payment of reparation should be predominantly by direct transfer
of goods and services (including shipping and insurance ser-
vices) to the recipient country for its domestic use. Payment
in cash received from the sale of goods and services to third
countries should be discouraged except under special conditions.
However, it may be that limitations of time and of the recipient
country's ability to avail itself of direct transfer will
necessitate some use of indirect or cash payment in order that
particular claimants may receive any reasonable amount of
reparation.
By reference to a prescribed minimum standard of living it is
not intended to set up any hard and fast measure, but rather an
elastic one, as heretofore indicated. Diligent efforts on the
part of the Japanese people to increase their production should
increase the amount available for reparation out of current
production. Such efforts should dispose the United Nations to
relax restrictions on the amount of production devoted to living
requirements

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
132
-18-
roquirements and in so doing to provide an incentive to further
progress and to the development of a receptive attitude toward
the new economic regime. In particular, evidence of willing-
ness of the Japanese Government and people to fit themselves
into the family of free and peaceful nations should dispose the
United Nations to withdraw from internal control in Japan and
to forego all reparation, while maintaining, preferably through
the general international organization, controls of an external
nature over the war potential.
In what has gone before, the question of the expropriation of
overseas holdings of the Japanese, both public and private, has
been omitted. This question appears to involve certain legal
complexities, but the economic aim should be clear. Great
properties that are technically private in nature have been
the means of Japanese control over at least large sections of
the economies of other countries. It should be obvious that
there can be no real independence for Korea or sovereignty for
China in Formosa and in more recently occupied portions of China
unless Japanese control of such significant properties as rail-
ways, utilities, mines, and certain heavy industries is com-
pletely broken. Continuation of these properties under their
present ownership is inconsistent with the aim of preventing
future aggression on the part of Japan, and of integrating that
country

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
133
-19-
intry into a peaceful world economy. Small, bona fide
private holdings of resident Japanese probably should be ex-
empted, but to so large an extent have the great Japanese
corporations served as the tools of imperialistic ambition
that their property, as well as that under direct government
ownership in these areas, must be taken over or its control
radically changed. Moreover, there are instances of apparent-
ly private and individual holdings that are in fact but part
of a great imperialistic colonization scheme, such as at
Davao. These can scarcely be permitted to continue.
The value of properties taken over should be credited to
reparation account; so far as compensation of private interests
may be required, that should be left to settlement between the
Japanese Government and its subjects. Policy in this regard
should be consistent among the several countries involved, both
with regard to the seizure of property and its appropriation
to purposes of reparation and to the determination of any question
of compensation of its owners by the Japanese Government.
In the final settlement of reparation claims, or possibly in the
treaty of peace itself, account must be taken of other claims
against Japan, including Japanese debts owing to foreign countries
or their nationals, presented to the Reparation Commission; and
of their offset in particular cases by debts owing to Japan or
her nationals

=== Page 120 === (confidence 1.00)
134
-20-
nationals. Among this latter group, it should be noted
that the Japanese tranche of the Reorganization Loan of 1913,
of which the Yokohama Specie Bank is paying agent, was never
actually held in Japan. Certain obligations representing
Japanese investment in China may require to be considered,
such as the Tsingtao Salt Industry Treasury Notes. Others,
among which the so-called Nishihari loans are prominent, are
perhaps on a different footing.
The guiding principle in all reparation should be that the re-
quirements should support, or interfere as little as possible,
with the long-run economic and other objectives of United States
policy.
A Reparation Commission should be set up in Japan at as early
a date as practicable after surrender. The Commission might
well be appointed now and provided with a small, previously
trained staff; so that it might give expert consideration to
specific problems of reparation as they arise. It is possible
that such a commission might be organized as a sub-commission
of a general foreign trade control commission pending the estab-
lishment of the general international organization.
VII. CONTROL OF JAPANESE ECONOMIC WAR POTENTIAL.
Control of the war potential will begin with disarmament, but
will run beyond the period of military occupation. It is,
of course

=== Page 121 === (confidence 1.00)
135
-21-
course, vitel to the United States political and economic
objectives. Certain types of industries, such as the manufacture
of civilian aircraft or the construction of ships readily
convertible to naval auxiliary uses, should no doubt be prevent-
ed. The synthetic rubber and petroleum industries should prob-
ably also be destroyed or closely controlled. Discretion,
supported by competent technical advice, must be employed in
marking particular industries or plants for destruction or for
conversion to peace-time production, which should be maintained
as fully as possible. Subsidies and similar props should not
be continued; industries that merit retention should be able to
stand on their own economic feet.
Positive measures for controlling the war potential are, however,
rather in the nature of current controls. The chief of these is
perhaps the control or rationing of imports, particularly of
such strategic materials as oil, iron ore, coal, and bauxite,
whose requirements for legitimate peace-time industry can be
closely estimated. The effectiveness of import control will
depend on the cooperation of exporting countries which, it may
be assumed, will be obtained through the general international
organization. Measures such as these are obviously closely re-
lated to economic policy with reference to Japan's internal
economy and to the guidance of Japanese industry toward inte-
gration with world economy.
VIII. CONTROL

=== Page 122 === (confidence 1.00)
-22-
136
CONTROL OF JAPANESE INTERNAL ECONOMY.
Control over the internal economy is necessary to the attainment
of the general economic objectives of the United States and,
specifically, to the destruction of Japan's economic war potential
and to the collection of substantial reparation. This control
must, however, look to the future: the integration of Japan into
peaceful international economic relations is paramount and should
inform the decisions of the control officers.  The period of
this control thus runs through the three time periods previously
described, but the scope and intensity of control should pro-
gressively diminish, merging into the world-wide arrangements
established by the general international organization.
There are certain inherent difficulties in the control of Japan's
internal economy that flow largely from differences in race and
culture. Only a limited number of personnel from the United
Nations can be presumed to be well equipped for this task by
knowledge of Japanese language, law, and administrative procedure.
Racial prejudice among both victors and vanquished may affect
results. Control is essential, however, and every effort must
be made to prevent development of any idea that it is based on
or results from an assumed superiority of the white race. To
encourage any such idea would prejudice attainment of the final
goal. Careful selection and training of personnel and careful
planning of the measures of control appear to offer the best
safeguards

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.95)
137
-23-
Teguards aga nst deterioration of the situation. Finally, the
horter the pe iod of immediate control, the less the danger.
n
In general, th forms and/or practices of industrial, financial,
and commercialaorganizations that have been and might again be
availed of for economic aggression, with its concomitant threat
to the mainter nce of peace, must be done away with. As pre-
viously obser ed, the elimination of their objectionable
activities in the international field is a prerequisite to the
integration o' Japan into world economy and the family of peace-
ful nations. 'Their practices in the domestic field are believed
also to have  ontributed to an unequitable distribution of
wealth and to have limited economic opportunity, and thereby
1]
to have inter ered with the emergence of a climate of general
s]
prosperity, il which a peaceful attitude flourishes.
ei
In particular the services of banking institutions should be
opened more & merously to small enterprises, and banking laws
t
should be so irawn as to encourage this development. In the
s
field of lab?, also, legislation and industrial practice should
encourage an effective labor movement. In short, control should
1e
strive to opin the door of economic opportunity to all classes.
11
IX. INTEGRA ION OF JAPAN INTO A FREE WORLD ECONOMY.
The goal of nited States economic policy toward Japan is the
integration f Japanese economy into a free, prosperous, and
peaceful

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
138
-24
aceful community of nations. That goal is indicated by the
terms of the Atlantic Charter: "to further enjoyment by all
States, great or small, victor or vanquished, of access, on
equal terms, to the trade and to the raw materials of the world
which are needed for their economic prosperity." The treatment
accorded Japan under the controls that will be necessary in
the earlier phases of the post-war world should seek as rapidly
as possible to develop a receptive attitude toward this ideal
on the part of the Japanese Government and people. The paramount
problem of the United Nations is to bring about the peaceful
acceptance of a state of interdependence in the international
economic field as opposed to one of exclusive and compulsory
trade relationships. Under the Cairo decisions Japan will
scarcely have an alternative, for she is to be stripped of the
very areas in which she has hitherto exercised domination.
A corollary of this economic objective is the discarding of the
idea and practice of economic self-sufficiency whereby in-
dustries are developed with little regard to cost and the
principle of comparative advantage or international division
of labor is set aside. In so far as such high cost industries
have not been destroyed in reducing the war potential, they
should be exposed to world competition. This should perhaps
be done gradually, in order to minimize unemployment, and in-
dustries adapted to the economic situation in Japan should be
encouraged. It should scarcely be necessary to repeat that
Japan

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
139
-25-
apan should be permitted to obtain on a basis of equality and
by legitimate trade the goods necessary to a reasonably pros-
perous economy, and that discrimination against her should no
more be permitted than discrimination by her.
Japan's economic institutions, including monetary and exchange
arrangements, should of course be administered in consonance
with those established for the free world economy. No countenance
should be given to any effort to develop, by means of commercial,
financial, or investment policy, a controlled economic bloc or
area of economic domination outside Japan.
in
In view of Japan's inevitable interest/and dependence on foreign
trade, firm and wise policy on the part of the dominant nations
should facilitate the integration of Japan into the family of
economically interdependent, prosperous, and peace-loving nations.
But that integration cannot be achieved unless other countries
also pursue appropriate policies and develop agencies of
international collaboration. Failure to accept economic inter-
dependence among nations would spell failure to attain the
objective of an enduring peace.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.95)
r. O. C. Lockhart
DATE: Oct. 3, 194
Centra
OC/R
Mr. G. H. Blakeslee
Paper on Economic Policy Toward Japan
OCT 5 1944
I have read through twice the paper on Economic
Polioy Toward Japan, and have greatly appreciated
the opportunity of doing so. Its conclusions are in
generai in line with those approved by the Area
Committee on the Far East, and expressed in such an
agreeable way that they should not arouse the opposition
of extremely nationalistic members of the PWC.
The paper is written more in an essay style than
1s usual with papers prepared for the Area Committee;
doubtless this was intentional. Should it seem ad-
visable it would be possible to condense the material
substantially. The conclusions are presented in very
general terms, and it may be that some members of the
H
Area Committee will feel that the paper would be helped
by a greater degree of definite material, such as sta-
tistics on Japanese economic conditions, which would
8
support the contentions which are presented. Since
394.50/9-1144
Moulton's book came out, everyone who reads such a
paper as this will have Moulton's conclusions in mind.
Would it be a good plan to present, without necessarily
naming Moulton, considerations in support of your
conclusions rather than those which he has given in his
recent book? As you may remember, the suggestion has
been made a number of times in the Area Committee that
it 1s discreet to quote, if possible, from the previous
to
papers approved by PWC. Possibly it has been deemed
undesirable to do that in this paper, in order to keep
the style uniform throughout.
Here are just a few thoughtlets for your con-
sideration:
Page 1: It would be consistent with the form adopted
3
by other papers to have the discussion of the
m
first page and a half under "I. INTRODUCTION"
CS/HM
1.894.5019-1144
The wording
DOR
A81 5
Gat

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
The wording of the first three lines
of the paragraph at the bottom of the
page makes rather hard reading; one 1s
tempted to read it a couple of times
before grasping just what it means.
Page 2:
Middle of the main paragraph. Doesn't
the phrase "the principle of equality"
need some qualifying adjective or
phrase?
The paper is quite correct, I believe,
in stating, "The paramount aim of United
States' foreign policy 1s enduring peace".
I wonder, however, whether this has been
true throughout our history. The Open+
goor policy, which in the early days strove
to obtain most-favored-nation treatment,
appears to have been motivated primarily
bey American economic interests, although
we desired to further these interests by
peaceful means.
Page 4:
United States' policy in support of the
territorial integrity of China is usually
stated to have been announced first in
the middle of the nineteenth century as
a policy in support of the Opentoor. I
agree with the statement in the paper
that in recent years this policy, of support
for the territorial and administrative
integrity of China, has been based pri-
marily upon the desire to maintain peace
throughout the Far East.
Pages 5-9
This part of the paper is particularly
inclusive:
general in treatment and raises the
docemens
query whether it would be helped by
supporting material of some kind.
Germeany
Page 10:
Page 13:

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Page 10:
Section V. Is this section not too
general? It fails to define or explain
"a minimum Japanese economy".
Pages 14-20:
This discussion of Restitution and
Reparation impresses me as among the best
parts of the paper.
Page 15:
First three lines. Is this statement not
too sweeping, even with the somewhat
restricting limitation which immediately
follows?
Page 18:
Seventh line. Does the paper really
mean to advocate the possible foregoing
of all reparations from Japan?
Page 23:
Would you need some reference to agrarian
reform?
Pages 23-25:
This section impresses me as well done;
it puts across the correct conclusions,
and in a way which is not likely to arouse
antagonism.
Again many thanks for the privilege of reading
the paper.
 Beals
TS:GHBlakeslee/mp

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
morandum
UNITED STATES GOVERN
Mr. Collado
DATE: November 3, 19
- Mr. Luthringer
CHARACTER OF IMMEDIATE WORK TO BE DONE ON
ECONOMIC TREATMENT OF JAPAN AND JAPANESE REPARATIONS.
I.
now puz
I have considerable doubts as to the advisability of
establishing the reparations committee which Mr. Remer
proposes to you in his memorandum of October 3l. It is
not at all clear to me that any useful purpose will be
served by establishing the proposed committee at this
time. Before discussing the nature of the reparations
work that in my opinion should be done, I should like,
however, first to discuss the closely related work on the
treatment of Japan.
II.
The fate of the document on the long-run economic
objectives with regard to Germany and recent information
which has been made available to me regarding high level
attitudes on this subject raise some doubt in my mind on
the advisability of trying to submit to the Executive
Committee on Economic Foreign Policy the document on
Japan which that Committee requested you to prepare.
CS/E
There seems to be a strong feeling that many of the long-
term policies with regard to Germany should be decided
after Germany has surrendered and we have an opportunity
to see what conditions are like and how events are un-
folding. Basically the attempt to write long-term poliey
statements on principles as broad as those contained in
the Atlantic Charter, and which in effect go little beyond
the Atlantic Charter in the direction of specific implemen-
tation, seems to me to be unrewarding and very likely to
invite misunderstanding and criticism. I am not at all
convinoed that it 1s even an effective procedure for as-
sisting or guiding those responsible at the highest level
in the formulation of policy.
The attitude at the highest levels with regard to
Germany being what it 1s, it seems to me a fortiori
futile to attempt to formulate long-run principles to be
applied to Japan. Granting the necessity for long-run
JUN 29.1955
principles or policies, one can scarcely argus the
FILED

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
urgeney in the case of Japan is anything like that in the
case of Germany. In my opinion, the present document on
treatment of Japan should be put on ice for the time being
and I would further suggest that the Executive Committee
be informed that in view of the developments with regard to
Germany, the Department does not feel that any useful pur-
pose would be served by attempting to submit such a document
at this time.
III.
Assuming that such a decision is reached, it does not
follow that economic work on the treatment of Japan should
cease. In my opinion, too much effort has been devoted in
the past to more or less elaborate committee organizations
which devote a disproportionate amount of time to an at-
tempt to formulate statements of broad policy. There
are problems and urgent problems but I think that they need
to be cut down to workable size and approached from a
different point of view. It seems to me that what we need
is a series of memoranda exploring various phases of the
problem and analyzing the consequences of certain alternate
policies. These memoranda or later memoranda based on them
should be designed to assist policy-determining officers
to determine policy rather than attempt to write the policy
for them.
IV.
As you are aware, in the case of Germany the repara-
tions problem has become increasingly associated with and
made part of the problem of economic disarmament of Germany.
It has been increasingly clear that not much can be done
in the way of decision as to reparation policies without
prior or contemporaneous decision with regard to economic
disarmament policies. With regard to Japen, I do not see
that anything useful can be accomplished by attempting to
set up a committee to write reparations principles for
Japan at this stage of events. I do think, however that
work should continue on some of the studies which have
been started under Mr. Remer's guidance and that perhaps
several additional studies should be undertaken. I think
that as a starter these studies, where the assumptions are
applicable, should be based on the following assumptions:

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
1. that Japan will not be permitted to retain an
army larger than that required for purposes of
internal order and no industries directly en-
gaged in the manufacture of arms.
2. that Japan will not be permitted to have a navy
or facilities for the construction of naval
vessels:
3. that Japan will not be permitted to have an
aircreft manufacturing industry or to possess
or to operate military, naval, or commercial
aircraft of any nature whatsoever.
The kind of studies which appear to me to be useful are
the following:
1. A study examining the probable economic conse-
quences of the loss to Japan of her empire. One of the
assumptions of this study should be that Japan is stripped
of her ownership of business enterprises now situated in the
territories which she will lose.
2. A study of the probable economic consequences to
Japan of destruction of her heavy industry.
3. A study of the probable economic consequences to
Japan of limiting her shipping to inter-island shipping
and such small vessels as are needed to carry on the fishing
industry. This, of course, is related to no.2 above, so
far as the shipping construction industry is concerned.
4. It is assumed that the foregoing studies will
include some attempt to estimate the effect upon Japanese
national income and after the three first studies are
completed, an attempt should be made to estimate their com-
bined effects in this direction, particularly from the
point of vlew of the ability of the Japanese to maintain at
least a minimum subsistence.
5. After some of this basic groundwork has been
covered, there might be an attempt to estimate the possi-
bility of reparations from Japan from current output. I
should think that this estimate might proceed on the assump-
tions that reparations would be paid predominately in kind
and should include one estimate based on the assumption that

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.98)
-4
Japan will be permitted heavy industry and one on the assam-
tion that she will not. Both estimates would presumably be
based on an assumption that reparations would be the residual
after a minimum subsistence standard. I should think that
these particular studies might also pay particular attention
to the level of foreign trade which Japan would have to
attain in order to secure the imports requisite to payment of
reparations.
>
6. A study under progress by the Commerce Department
of Japanese over-seas holdings should be continued from the
point of view of estimating the value which might accrue to
the United Nations as reparations from this source.
7.  The political, economic and commercial policy con-
sequences, particularly from the point of view of United
States' interests, of a reperations program which would
assume reparations (a) primarily from current output, and
(b) primarily from seizure of Japanese machinery and equip-
ment and its transfer principally to China. As part of
this study, or perhaps as a separate study, there might be
a similar analysis of the consequences of depriving Japan
of heavy industry in terms of political and economic effects
and relations in the Far East.
8. A study of the possibility of obtaining substantial
reparations from output in Japan without assuming detailed
and- positive economic control of Japan during an occupation
period. This analysis should include the possibility of
exercising such control through personnel other than from
this country and might make some effort to indicate the plans
and programs thet would be necessary to train American per-
sonnel adequate for such duties.
The foregoing suggested list of studies is only tenta-
tive and may perhaps be subject to more refined definition.
I suggest it largely for illustrative purposes.
V.
If you agree that study along these lines might profitably
be undertaken and should be made before there is further at-
tempt to write general long-term policy, I believe that what
1s needed is not a reparations committee of the type suggested
by Mr. Remer but rather a small, say two or three-man high
level steering committee to get the suggested studies started

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.96)
-5
and give them general guidance. As the studies are com-
pleted, even perhaps in preliminary form, there might be
then more point in a more formal reparations working com-
mittee to formulate reparations principles. The same or
a similar committee might then be able to do some useful
work with regard to economic disarmament of Japan.
GLL
FMA:GL:ST

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.87)
State Dapt.
SFCRFT
AIC ADMAINISTRATION
1944
Now DeIks, Imdia
dCR/e
7 Nevaaber 1924
SUPPLY AND REN…RLES
. . . Behaesder, Aeting Chief
WDEC 2-1944
JeDiviin
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sashingten, D. C.
Dear J0e1
894.50
L im arder to ksep yom apyrsmed of she motivisies of this
preap I sttech soples of lettars just written to Johmntone and lewlett
whien are elf-esplaaatory.
R Our rousine work is proceedimys in its custowory way and
keeping everyane quite busy. I think it requiree no further somment
at shis time.
5. I have recestly recsived a memorandus fron Joodfeliow, Head
744
of kIs, making for our views as to the effect on Japanese economy.
partloularly on the production of aluminum, of the stoppee of supplies
from the Betherlands Sast Indes refineries of petrolcws-coke (pitab-
aake), whioh may besome iwoviteble if their supplies from the south
m
are ant with the oseupation of the hillppino Islands. we do not have
G
in the files here the bmakground material whien ineus utilized in drswing
up last year the viexs we then entertaineu regurding the adeguncy of
DEC 5-1944
FILED
mupplles of pitob-coke ander variuus asuumet soaditlons. ould you
please amk your non-ferrous moteln man to give us a momorandum, at his
early eonvenlenee, answering uoodfellow's queption?
.  lattar to Goodfellow from Byott of  dated etober 18
atetes that in she seekly. umanry lo. at en artiole appeared on the
um at pyritie residues by the iron and stenl induntries in Japas
desd agust, leee. "we think," Lyott writes, "thet the conelusion
shas Japamese domestie iron supplies ahould be ineraused over previoas
easimates by over 600,000 tons requires mosificstien." le suys that
6
Japsaese domestie eostribution of iros ores wus written up in the o
reprt to 5.000,000 ton contain1ng 1,200,00 ton . Amarioan estimates
nfidential File
haye me far been only 1,b00, 00t tons of ore, but Dyott conjectures shat
thae merisan figures may posmibly be revimed upwards in the pear futare.
Me ramarks thet although no spocifie reference in mnde eiter in the w
or the Ameriean iron and steel reports to this fact, Japen's ability to
moure pás iron from pyritie residwes bas almays been kéewm and takem

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.81)
SECKET
senstders that it is dirréealt to arrive et an emest figure beseuse
the lew izem enateat, exeapt in the case er the Yanahare ine (ur )
an the high salper eentent, mitiante against its use by iren and
steel memataeturers. Dyets gives the xs epéaion that every effert
has Seem snde in the prst by the Japanese to make the fullest possible
wss of this form ef irem mupply asd thnt it is fally covered in the
préssst eatimate ef s, 000, 000 toms of doestie ores, a tetal aggragasing
2,000,000 tans more than shat mined in 19n7.
Sveryeme joins me in extendimg good wishes te you mnd your celleagss.
Yours sinearely,
Andrew. Corry

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES
SECRET
aa
FOREION EOOMOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Intelligesse Divisien
6 November 1944
Mr. Paul H. Johnstone
e/e Lt. Cel. R. B. Farrester
J.I.S., M.Q., S.A.C., S.E.A.
A...O. . 9
Dear Panl:
We have received your letters dated October 31 and November 2,
the first of which arrived Saturday evening, November 4 and the
latter this morning, Nevember 6. We are following your instruetions
to formard them to Hewlett at once. I have also drafted a cable to
Hewlett and MeGune which is being sent today and which transmits your
and Forrester's joint recommendations that they defer reaching a
definite decision regarding details of MoCune's possible return to
Kandy until after they have seen your letters of the dates mentioned.
The cable also sums up the essence of your reasons for thinking that
MeGune need not hasten to Kandy but might well mait until Meiéklejohn's
arrival in Chungking relieves him, provided this will take place not
later than January.
This morning we had visitors at the Fort, two generals, I was
informed Cawthorne and Lane but I am not positive as to their identity.
They conduoted a rapid inspection of our premises and were impressed,
I am informed, by the show which was put on for them, not exactly a
Diwali festival, but good enough. Apparently one of the objectives
was to impress upon them the need for expanded accommodations. What
was good enough for the Moguls is not good enough for us, seems to
be the guiding prineiple.
This afterneon at four I am to attend a meeting in Hayne's office
as Hewlett's deputy.
There is nothing further to report at this time other than to say
that our routine tasks are proceeding according to custom.
Everyone in the office joins m in sending heartiest good wishes.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew V. Corry
cc: Gregory Hewlett, Chungking
J. Z. Schneider, Washington, D.C.
SECRET

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
UNITED STATES
FOREION EOOMCMIC ADMINISTRATION
Intelligense Division
aC
6 November 1944
Mr. Gregory Hewlett
e/e Mr. Shannon MeCune
U.S. Féreign Eeonomic Administration
c/o United States Eabassy
Chungking, China
Dear Greg:
Two letters have arrived from Johnstone dated October 3l and
November &. We are forwarding them to you today. Pursuant to
instruetions comveyed by Johnstone, Bescroft and I have sent you
and MoCune a cable, the draft of which was worded as follows.
FORWARDING JOHNSTONE LETTERS DATED OCTOBER 31 AND
NOVELBER 2. HE INSTHJOTS US TO CABLE YOU AND MOCUNE HIS
AND FORRESTER'S CONSIDERED JOINT ADVICE TO POSTPONE
FINAL DECISION REGARDING MCCUNE'S DATE RETURN TO KANDY
TILL YOU RECEIVE THOSE LETTERS. THEY THINK OUR WORK
KANDY WILL BE SMALL NEXT SEVERAL MONTHS AND DEDUCE
MOCUNE NEKD NOT HASTEN RETURN TILL MEIKLEJOHN TAKES
OVER CHUNGKING. THEY RECOMMEND MOCUNE BE ON JOB FULL
TIME IN KANDY BY JANUARY OR FEBRUARY AND BELIEVE ADEQUATE
MEANWHILE IF HEWLETT AND GOODFELLOW ARRANGE FOR ALTERNATE
REPRESENTATION THERE THEMSELVES PART-TIME BASIS TILL
MEIKLEJOHN ARRIVAL CHUNGKING RELEASES MCCUNE POR RESUMPTION
KANDY.
I attach a copy of a letter just sent to Johnstone.
We have your letter of November 2. With regard to material
on transportation requested by Mayer, we must point out that the
only items that we get which deal with it,other than that from
Washington (which we normally forward to Mayer's organization in
the ordinary course of routine), are in the Office Memo reports
on PW interrogations. These also go to Mayer through the regular
channels. We are requesting Major Traylor to add Mayer's name to
his distribution list for all other available material, sincs it
is not within our scope to handle it.
We note the point Colonel Bimon has made about sketches and
shall endeaver to satimfy him when, on your return, you amplify
your suggestion as to the precise manner in which he and you wish
to have this done. Secondly, I shall have a list of the abjectives
Folders that we have at the Fort drawn up together with the date of
eash, so that you can forward the list to Colohel Simon whe
SFCRFT

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
by Hewlett
6 November 1946
returm and request him to supply us the latest issue in each case as
wall as the future new issues. Thirdly, we shall indicate to Major
and rmilroads intelligence items routed to him showing & more precise
avalaation of the validity of the item and an appraisal of its sig-
nificance. Fourthly, I shall ask Basil to request that CINCPAC-CINOPOA
materials of the kind specified in your letter be made available
systematieally to EIs. We are now checking material available in
the KIs files on pre-war capacity of ports in Southeast Asia and China
and shall notify Joseph Nolan of AkB if we have anything of interest
to him.
On my return from the field on the afternoon of November 3, I
received and read your memorandum of October 30. In it I note your
remarks on the break-up of the CBI Theater; no further information
as to the effects of the change has yet come to my attention. I have
given a memorandum to Beecroft, attention of Ruth Merrill, to cable
Washington on November 10 and request them to cable back authorization
for Selme to travel on the strength of a transfer from New Delhi to
Washington, D. C. in case the action you have requested Washington to
take is not carried out before that time. There is no news to report
on our Nisei situation except that I understand Andrus, who interrogates on
all psychological warfare items, has had a Nisei attached specifically to
his work.
Pursuant to your instructions, I have carefully read your "Report
on FEA Intelligence Division, New Delhi, India". It is excellent, and
I am unable to offer any changes that I think would improve it.
This afternoon at four o'olook I attended a meeting called by
Colonel Hayne. The subject was "Biological Wargfare". A Lt. Colonel
Moore, who works out of G-2 on biological warfare (or bacteriological
warfare) is making a tour of the theater in order to instruct the
intelligence collection agencies as to the requirements of information
which his organization wants regarding enemy activities and intentions
in biological warfare. Colonel Moore is to come over to EIS tomorrow
afternoon at 4:30 in order to talk to the analysts, including the
interrogators, and furnish them with a sufficient background and
questionnmire mo that information on this subject can be collected
by us if it is obtainable either through interrogation or through
references in the documents that we handle.
Swerling arrived from Caloutta Friday afternoon and left for
the United States Sunday afternoon. Drew arrived from Caloutta
Sunday afternoon and will be here until Wednesday. MoClurkin has
recently left Caloutta to return to the U.S., so I have been given
to understand.
SFCRET

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Howlett
6 November 1944
I had a very intaresting trip in Kashmir and expect to leave on
or about Nevamber 13 for Nepal. It looks as though I shall be there
fer feurteen to seventeen days. If there is any change in this arrange-
momt, I mhall inform you in my next letter.
Everyone joins me in good wishes for a pleasant and profitable
journey.
Sinoerely yours,
Andrew V. Corry
cc: Mr. Paul Johnstone, Kandy
Mr. J. Z. Schneider, Washington, D.C.
SFCRFT

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
894.50
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Appointment of an Executive Committee of the Joint
Conference Cammittee.
Advising of -.
894.50/11-3044
m
For the original paper from which reference is taken
G
See
Letter
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From
Engineers Joint Conference
Dated
Nov. 30.1944
To
Committee
File No.
840.50/11-3044
U. 8. G0YRNENT PRINTING OPFICE 1—1540

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
68 Grove St, CarbondáTdjcpean
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Dec 10, 1944
EC121944
DIRECTOR
Honorable Joseph C Grew
Department of State
Washington, DC
Dear Sir
I hope you will pardon the presumption of one of the "little people"
wreroachng upon the time of so busy and important a person as yourself, but
I feel sure hat when you have read this letter you will understand that this is
no idlekequest.
we try to study and inform ourselves on the vital questions of the world today
and the:future. Along that line, it falls to ny lot to prepare a paper on the
FrsuBjeht of "Japan - which to fear more, her collapse or her comeback?" Now, or-
dinarily I am able to map out a line of thinking thru a subject, but somehow I
do not seem to be able to "get my teeth into" this one; I cannot get a toehold
of any kind on it. I have gathered together quite a bit of material, altho I
have not waded thru it all yet; also your own book. But anything I have read
so far does not seem to approach the problem of post-war Japan from just this
angle. Maybe there is not much sense in discussing it from this angle, anyway;
what do you think? Maybe you can think of or suggest something better?
At any rate, would it be asking too much of you to just give me a
few pegs on which to hang my thots; that is, a few points to work from? You
need not go into any great detail, just give me a starter, for once I get some
idea of the results of Japan's collapse or comeback, I'm sure I can read and
894.50/12-1044
study it out more intelligently. The only things Iive thot of thus far is the
loss of Japan's trade, if we EVER WANT to trade with her again! (And of course
we will!) Or the big opportunity for Communism to move in. Frobably you can
give me other elements of her collapse or comeback which would be disastrous to
the rest of the world. Or you can refer me to certain parts of your own books
which will give ws me all the information I need. I have listened to you many
times over the radio, and I have read lots you have written, for I feel that
your viewpoint and attitude are very fair and just toward Japan, and very truth-
ful from all standpoints.
This brings me to the second part of this letter which has to do,
not with Club work, but with Missionary Society work, in which I've been inter-
ested and active for the past 35 years or so.
As a young woman, I got into the Mission Study work of the Methodist
Church, one of the subjectsI studied at Silver Bay, N Y, being "Sunrise in the
Sunrise Kingdom"; later, in my home town of Scranton, I was thrown into associa-
tion with a young Japanese man who was studying YiCS methods in this country.
With this background and subsequent studies in the Society, I have been much
interested in Japan, regarding it much more tolerantly than many other people.
Then, too, our local Society here in Carbondale has had a very special interest T
in Japan, as one of our own girls spent about 14 or 15 years there as a mission-—
ary, and one of our woman gave loo0. toward founding a kindergarten in Nagasaki,S
I think it was.
In fact, even tho my own son's command car was chased down the
highway from Schofield Barracks to fearl Harbor, and machine-gunned by a Jap
plane on Dec 7, 19lil, somehow I still could not hate the Japanese I had known
during these years I had studied about them. Right now, I can find far more
excuse - or shall I say a reason - for the acts of the Japanese than I can for
894.50/12-1044
those of the Nazis. Japan has not yet had looyears of Christ's teachings,
while Germany has had many, many centuries; and yet in 15 short years a frme
ly Christian country has been brutalized to the level - or I think, BELoW he
level - of a so-called pagan country which has not yet come all the way u th
scale of civilization.xk
Somehow, I cannot bring myself to believe that ALL the peopof
Japan are devils. I cannot believe that the fourteen years of Helen Couchrs
life were wasted; God doesn't work that way! And I do feel very deeply that
we who call ourselves Christians have a tremendfous responsibility toward

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
men this war is over; if we fail in it, I'm very much afraid weill
war on our hands in a few years. Now, what I would ask you isy
un honest opinion on the Christians in Japan, such men as Kagawa, Biahop
and others of their kind? What can we hope for in that direction?
 to be "Chairman on Peace" in our church and am often in need of authen
id information on certain subjects. Japan being rather a delicate, "untouch-
able subject, with truthful information being verybhard to secure these days,
d like to get all I can.
fter Pearl Harbor, my son went down onto Canton Island, then Guad-
hoanal, then Vella LaVella, and now is heading for the Philippines, if he is
t already there, and even tho under fire many, many times, he has been kept
marvelously safe. He has killed 1l Japs himself, has tha DSC and Legion of
telligent Jap with whom he can talk and get acquainted! I know that must
round awfully silly and visionary and idealistic to you, but from the first
I have thot that this war was the most gigantic missionary enterprise the
world has ever seen, and that must also sound very absurd, also. I will not
bore you, nor take your time in enlarging upon that, but I gave public utter-
anee to that thot several years ago, and now in setting up its Crusade for
Christ, the Methodist Church is using that very idea in some of its literature!
Now, I have taken enough of your precious time, but I will be very
grateful if you can just give me a start on my Club paper; and secondly, give
me any ideas on the Christian church in Japan and what we may hope from it.
Many of our Club members are well acquainted with your former secre-
tary, Marion Arnold, altho I do not have the pleasare of knowing her. For
that reason, probably we have been more interested in your career and utter-
ances, as it was another bit of Carbondale in Japan, whiøle she was there.
Another tie of interest with Japan was a cousin of mine, Stephen
P House, who was British Vice-Consul from about 1937 to 1940, or thereabouts,
as he left there early in l9ll. He was at Kobe part of the time. I would
write him, but understand he is in England at the moment, and I need this
information at the earliest possible moment.
Thanking you for any help you can give me, I remain,
Very respectfully,
DECI2 91944
Mrs Fred L Cagwin
PARTMENT OF STATE
68 Grove St
Carbondale, Penna

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
January 23, 1945
In reply refer to
JA
Dear Mrs. Cagwin:
I have read with considerable interest your
thoughtful letter of December 10, 1944 in which
you raise the question, "Japan, which to fear more--
her collapse or hor comeback?" and ask for my comments
894.
with regerd to the place of certain Christians in Japan
and the future of the Christian churoh in that country.
It is indeed gratifying that there are persons in
this country like you who are giving serious considera-
0
tion to the important problems which will confront the
2
United States in 1ts relations with other countries
in the post-war period and who are encouraging their
friends and associates to take an active interest in
studying these important international questions. The
2
oreation of a well-informed body of public opinion is
obviously essential before there can emerge a sound
long-range polioy in this country.
The questions which you have asked me in your
letter raise for consideration problems with so many
aspeots that it would be impossible to provide satis-
factory and adequate replies within the scope of a
letter. However, I am enclosing copies of three of
my spesohes which you may find helpful in your studies.
As a further suggestion, you may be able to obtain
material from the following unofficial organisations
whioh conduct researohes into Far Bastern questions:
Counoil on Foreign Relations, 45 East 65th Street,
New York 21, New York; Foreign Polioy Assooiation,
32 East 38th Street, New York, New York; Carneg1e
Endowment for International Peace, 405 West 1l7th Street,
New York, New York: World Peace Foundation, 40 Mt. Vernon
Street, Boston, Massachusetts, and the Institute of
Pacific Relations, East 54th Street, New York 22, New York.
Furthermore
Mra. Fred L. Cagwin,
68 Grove Street,
Carbondale, Pennsylvania.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Furthermore, I would suggest that you consul
Volumes I and II. Foreign Relations of the United
States-Japan: 1931-1941. These volumes may be
consulted in any one of the larger libraries or
they may be purchased from the Superintendent of
Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington,
D. C.. for the price of 4.00.
A possible source of information with regard
to the place of certain Christians in Japan and the
future of the Christian church in that country is
Mr. Joe J. Mickle, Foreign Mission Conference of
North America, 156 Fifth Avenue, New York 10, New
York. Mr. Mickle was for many years engaged in
Christian work in Japan and he may be able to be
of assistance to you.
Sincerely yours,
jot.
Enclosures:
1. Address, dated
January 6, 1944.
2. Address, dated
October 27, 1944.
3. Address, dated
November 18, 1943.
2045P.4.
JAN
H
JA:HL:EAB
JA
FE
1/22/45
911)

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDE
The Economie and Finansial Group
 POLICY
Counoil on Foreign Relations
FEB261945
THE POSTWAR TREATMENT OF JAPAN
DFC 1 9 1944
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
Prepared by Elizabeth Schumpoter
Two of the most able discussions of the Postwar Treatment of Japan
are to be found in the Report of the Princeton Regional Conference of the
Universities Committee on Post-War International Problems and in the little
book by Harold G. Moulton and Louis Marlio entitled The Control of Germany and
Japan. The Universities Coamittee also issued a pamphlet The Post-War Trest-
894.50/12-
mont of Japen which presented various points of view on this subject. For
expert advice the Universities Committee turned to Sir George B. Sanson,
now at the British Embassy in Washington, who spent many years in Japan
representing his government. Sanson is an authority not only on economic
conditione in Japan but also on the Japanese language and culture. The
Reports of the British Department of Overseas Trade on Economic Conditione
in Japan covering the period from 1914 to 1936 were prepared by Sir George
Sansom with the assistance of various collaborators. They are considered
the best current comment in English on the commercial, industriel, and
MAR1
financial situation in Japan at that time. The work of Moulton and Mario
has been commended for its vision and courage in facing problems on which
there has been far too wuch muddled thinking and talking.
2
advocate a rather liberal economic treatment of Japan after the war not only
that the Japanese way live but lso because of the disrupting effects on
adjacent regions if Japanese undustry and comnerce are destroyed. They both
believe that the problen of preventing future aggression is simpler in the
Japanese case than in the Geraan case; that a Japan conpletely defeated,
disarmed, and stripped of hor colonies and recent conquests is not likely to
be a serious threat in the future if there exists an international organisa-
tien dedicated to collective security. They also both believe that it will
S
be impossible for Japan to maintain her large and still growing population
n the limited resources and territories of the home islands unless she is
alllowed to retain her industries (both light nd heavy) and to engage freely
in international trade.
I assume that the study group of the Council on Foreign Relations
will want to read both the Princeton Report and the book by Moulton and Mario.
Moulton's treatment of econonic problems differs on sone points from that of
summon and is much more detailed. In general Sanson is more familiar with
the present war. Moulton is best adquainted with the financial problems of
the Japen of 192s and 1929 which was preparing to return to the gold standard
and to the sound, orthodox econonio principles of the late nineteenth century
en free trade, free enterprise, and balanced budgets were the fashion. This

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
only a brief interlude, however. The iupact of the world depression on
Peconomy already depressed by domestic deflationary policies followed by the
Manchurian Incident and the simultaneous departure of the pound from gold
precipitated a fairly complete abandonment of orthodox economic practices
during the early thirties. There were amazing changes and great progress in
some lines between 1931 and 1936. Where Moulton's statistics are out of date
shall supply nore recent ones in a few cases.
I shall indicate points of agreement and difference between Moulton
qnd Sansom and make sose comments on points which seem to require modification
or further explanation. I find myself in conplete agreenent with Sir George
Sanson. This may be partly because his treatment is so brief that it is neces-
sarily very general and partly because my own thinking has been influenced by
his past writings. I agree heartily with Moulton's main thesis but I find
ayself differing with hin considerably on a nunber of points such as the value
of the colonies to the Japanese economy; the relative ease or difficulty
with which the Japanese will be able to maintain or improve their tandard of
living under the trade conditions likely to prevail at the end of the war;
and the assumption that aluminun and civil aviation will not be of much im-
portance in ndustrial and conmercial developments as distinguished from
preparation for war. I also looked in vain for any discussion of the Japanese
nerchant marine which facilitated Japanese trade expansion and helped to
overcome a persistent unfavorable balance in merchandise trade.
The case for and against liberal economic treatment of a defeated
and disarmed Japan is presented on pages 20 and 21 of the panphlet on The
Post-War Treatment of Japan issued by the Universities Conmittee:
"The hatred of the Japanese which will have been aroused by the war
and the fear that the Japanese will in effect dump goods on the domestic
and eapire narket because of their low prices and low labor costs (two
factors most cormonly mentioned) will conbine after the war to produce
a strong denand for discrimination against Japanese exports in national
foreign trade policies through such weasures as discriminatory tariffs,
quotas and iaport prohibitions. The argument will bo advanced that
we are under no obligation to show favor to the Japanese, that they
should be allowed "to stew in their own juice," that a profitable and
extensive foreign trade will facilitate rearmament, and that in any case
we should not depress our standard of living to that prevailing in Japan.
On the other hand, it can be argued that since we are apparently not
willing to exterminate the 70 nillion or more Japanese who will presumably
exist at the conclusion of the war, we must makc a serious effort to live
with them peacefully and that that is possible only if we are prepared
to allow them to naintain a decent level of livelihood by Japanese
standards. If Japan is to be deprived of her empire, her people will, it
is pointed out, becone even more dependent than before the war on foreign
conmerce which must be a two-way proposition. If the Jupanese are to
obtain the raw materials, foodstuffs and manufactured goods they need,
they must be allowed to sell their goods and services abroad, in the
United States and other western countries, in China and India, and in the
colonial areas of the world. If the opportunity to do this-a necessary
condition to the maintenance of a decent standard of living in Japan-is
denied by the victorious nations in this war, no government, it is argued,
devoted to the course of peaceful international cooperation can long
survive."

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
The pamphlet then quotes a statement by Sir George Sansom which
ries the problem as follows:
"For her own econonic stability, she (Japan) needs export markets
providing her with sufficient funds for the purchase of raw materials;
an adequate merchant marine; some share in international air cominunica-
tions and other international economic enterprises,if not immediately
after the war at least after a period of probation; and reasonable free-
dom of entry and residence for her nationals in foreign countries. I
see no reason why these benefits should not be made available to Japan
on condition of loyal participation in such international schemes as
may be devised after the war for such purposes as exchange stabilization,
the regulation of turiffs and similar measures tending to remove the
evils of economic nationaliam."
This statement represents a very liberal approach to the problem
of the postwar treatment of Japan. At the opposite extrene is the proposal
occasionally heard that Japan should be reduced to an agricultural country
depending entirely on its own resources. A proposal more often put forward
is that Japan be permitted to retain her light industry but that the plant
and equipment of her heavy industry and her merchant marine should be taken
from her and removed to China and that she should not be permitted to build
them up again. Moulton points out repeatedly the difficulties of administer-
ing any very extensive scheme of economic control such as this course would
require.
Moreover, the briefest consideration of the problem of population
in relation to territory and resources shows that the 75 millions or more
Japanese in existence at the end of the war will not be able to subsist on
the agriculture of the hone islands, however intensive that agriculture may
be. It is true that at the time of the Meiji Restoration in 1868, Japan
was predominantly an agricultural country just as China is today, but at that
time she experienced considerable difficulty in supporting a population of
not much more than 30 illions.
Industrialization, international trade and great scientific advances
in medieine, agriculture, and industry have significantly raised the standard
of living and made possible a great increase in the population of
Japan during the present contury;1 moreover the population is likely to
1. Modern Japan begins with the Meiji Restoration in l868 but really substan-
tial progress dates from the turn of the century with the adoption of the gold
standard in 1897 and the conclusion of the Anglo-Japanese Alliance in 1902.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
Inerease substantially for some years to cone. The present density of popula-
tion in relation to the area of arable land is the highest in the world-
over S,C00 per square mile of arable land.
The population of Japan Proper at the tine of the latest census
(October, 1940) was 73,114,000 and that of the Japanese Eapire was 105,727,000.
This included Korea with 24,526,000 inhabitants, Formosa with 5,872,000
and Saghalien with 415,000. The population of Manchuria, which was not in-
cluded in the empire figure, was 43,324,000. .This territory (the Japanese
Eapire plus Manchuria) which was under diroct Japan control even before the
China Incident must now contain a population of approximately 150 millions.
The population of Japan Proper which was increasing at the rate of
about a million a yeur for some years before l937 is now probably experiencing
an increase of about half a million a year. The large drop is to be attributed
mainly to wartime conditions although both the crude birth rute and the nore
significant net reproduction rate have been declining since the early twentics.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
5
The net reproduction rate for Jupan was 1.64 in 1925, 1.57 in
0 and 1.44 in 1937. This measure indicates the number of daughters the
average woman would bear during the child-bearing period (15-50) if the
Tertility and mortality rates of that year were to continue unchanged.
A net rate of 1.00 is just sufficient to maintain the population in the
long run; the net rate of 1.44 for 1937 would indicate a population in-
crease of 44 per cent in the course of a generation if fertility and mor-
tality conditions remained constant at the 1937 level. Net reproduction
rates in Japan are declining, but they were still very high before the
war and are likely to be re atively high again when the war is over. This
means that postwar planning for Japen must concern itself with the problem
of an increasing population vhich is at present not much of a problem in
Western and Northern Europe, the British dominions and the United States.
The net reproduction rate for England and Wales was 1.11 in 1920-22, 0.81
in 1930-32 and 0.78 in 1937; for Germany the figure was 0.98 in 1926, 0.75
in 1931 and 0.90 in 1937; for the United States (white population) the net
reproduction rate vas 1.08 in 1930 and 0.96 in 1937.
This aspect of population growth in Japan assumes importance
against the background of the limited resources and territory of the home
islands. .Much of the land in Janan is rocky and mountainous; only about
one-sixth of it is cultivable. While the non-arable land is used for
certain productive purposes (forests and water pomer) it is the arable
land which is significant in terms of food supply and such important agri-
cultural ray mterials as silk, cotton, rool and rubber. The most densely
populated countries and colonies in the vorld in 1936, in relation to the
area of arablc land, were:
Country
Density of Population per squarc kilometer
of arable land
of total area
Japan
1,163
184
England and Wales
1,141
270
The Netherlands
828
245
Belgium
785
273
Formosa
574
152
Java and Madura
535
316
China
504
43
Korea
488
100
Germany
347
143
It vill be seen that not only was Janan densely populated but
that the colonies Formosa and Korea also had a very high arable density.
This is undoubtedly one of the reasons why the ∞lonies never served as
outlets for excessive Japanese agricultural population but only for small
numbers of Japanese engaged in administration and management.
The land in Japan (and in the colonies) is already very intensively
cultivated with heavy fertilization, irrigation and double cropping employed
to a wide extent. There has been no increase for many years in the numbers
employed in agricul ture in Japan Proper and the percentage of the employed
population engaged in agriculture declined from 52.4 in 1920 to 47.4 in 1930
and was estimated at 43.7 in 1936.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
Japan Proper will have to import foodstuffs as well as aw
Is at the end of the war when the empire is dissolved. The Japanese
mas more than self-sufficient in regard to foodstuffs at the out-
eak of the China Incident, but Japan Prcper obtained about 20% of her rice
from Korea and Formosa, all her sugar from Formosa ahd c considcrable amount
of soy beans, other beans and oil yielding seeds from Manchuria. The type
of improved ricc doveloped in thc colonies was similar to that raised in
Japan; it brought a better price and was much more palatablc to the Japanese
than "foreign rice." If trade between Japan and her former colonies is
violently disturbed at the end of the war, both the former colonics and the
home country will suffer. There was close intergration of the colonial and
Japanese economies in both agriculture and industry. Many of thc foodstuffs
and raw materials imported by Japan (sugar, various lov' grade minerals,
"Japanese rice") vill havc difficulty in finding satisfactory outlets in
other markcts.
For many years, raw silk was the great cash crop of Japanese
export but it becamc progrossively less important vith the rise of the rayon
industry and the diversification of Japanese industry and trade. Raw silk
which had accounted for as much as 40% of Japan's total exports in the
early twenties constituted only 14 per cont of thc total exports in the four
years, 1936 to 1939. This in itsclf was a desirable development because rav
silk as a luxury product was particularly susccptible to denression in its
one.large market, the United States.
Besides rar silk for the textile industry there are singularly
few industrial rav materials produced on any scale in Japan Proper. There
are moderate deposits of coal, copper, sulphur and gold. By means of careful
afforestation of her mountain slopes and systematic development of her
mountain streams and rivers, Japan nom produces a largo part of the pulp for
the paper and rayon industries and possesses very extensive hydro-electric
power capacity. Formcrly she had to import from foreign countries practi-
cally all the cotton, wool, petrolcum, iron and other metels used in her
industries. In recent yeers, however, Japan developed cxtensive and varied
sources of strategic rav matcrials in the colonies, in Manchuria and in
near-by East Asia -espccinlly in Malaya and the Netherlands East Indies.
Thus the Japanese Empire plus Manchuria was becoming a fairly strong stra-
tegic unit although many of the rescurces are of such low grade that they
would not be utilized in richer countrics such as the United States, Russia
or England. Stripped of thesc territories Japan will once more be very weak
strategically, a result which wo desire. At the same time, it is probably
desirable that some of the rcciprocal trade bascd on these materials continue
because Japanesc industry is adapted to them and they are not of sufficiently
high value to warrant long hauls to distant markets. With their cheaply
built and cheaply operated merchant marine, the Japanese can carry economi-
cally various ores, metals and other raw materials to Japan and then return
fabricated transportation and industrial equipment of ali kinds to help
industrialize thesc regions.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
The rise of the standard of living in Japan Proper was dependent
imdustrialisation vhich in turn depended upon foreign and colonial
rade. (The standard of living has also been rising in the colonies but to
lesser degree.) The extent of the rise is very difficult to ascertcin
and is naturally the subject of a certain amount of controversy; but one
thing is ccrtain, it was much greater than is commonly realized in western
countries. It is probably fair to say that Japan is the only Oriental
nction to achievc something which approached an Occidental standard of
living. Moulton puts the caso very conservatively when he says: "As a
result of these developments, the output por vorker per hour vas so greatly
increased that by 19s0 the Japancse Islands were able to supoort on a plane
of living at lcast double that prevailing three generations ccrlier a popula-
tion more than tricc as Jarge. This achievement illustrates not only the
inherent advantages in industrialization ond extensive international commerce
but also the adaptability of the Japanese people to changing conditions and
requirements."1
Real wages in Japan, according to the best available computations,
rose about 40 per cent between 1897 ahd 1914 and by another 50 to 60 per
cent between 1914 and 1926. Thereafter they rose more moderately. The rise
was especially rapid from 1919 to 1926 and undoubtedly had something to do
with the relatively high level of prices in Japan and Japan's persistently
unfavorable balance of trade cll during the twenties.
Colin Clark, an Australian economist, has ettempted to measure
economic progress and has produced some interesting international comparisons
of average real income per hecd of the rorking population. His results are
subject to a wide margin of error becausc of the inadequacy and lack of homo-
geneity in the original statiotics but even making due allowances for this,
the results are rather startling ith respect to the position of Japan.
He
concludes that avercge income per head of the working population in Japan
rose from 108 Intcrnational Units in 1897 to 406 I.U. in 1936 or nocrly four-
fold. It ill be observed that he is writing about average rerl income end
not recl vagcs. His intcrnationcl unit is defined as the amount of goods and
services which one doller vould purchase in the U.S.A. over the averago of
the period 1925-1934. Clark vorked out everages for somc thirty countries
for these years. Among them cre the following:
Average Renl Income per Head in International Units, 1925-34
U.S.A.
1381
Belgium
600
Itrly
343
Great Britain
1069
Czechoslovakia
455
U.S.S.R.
320
Switzerland
1018
Greece
397
South Africa
276
Nethorlands
855
Finland
380
Bulgaria
259
France
684
Hungary
359
Roumania
243
3
Sweden
653
Japan
353
British Indin
200
Germany
646
Poland
35?
China
100-120
1. Moulton and Martio, p. 54.
2. Colin Clark, The Conditions of Economic Progress, London (1940), pp. 41,
42, 114.
3. For British India und China, the basic statistics were so scanty that these
figures are only "approxinate orders of magnitude."

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
8
According to these computations, Janan from 1925 to 1934 had
approximately the same average level of rcal incomc as Italy, Soviet Russia,
Poland and the Baltic countries and an average lexel approximatcly three
times as high as China. I cannot either attack or defend these conclusions
because I have not been able to examine with care the statistics and methods
upon which thoy are based. It is possible that they exaggerate the gains
made in Japan. On the other hand, the condition of the Japanese people has
undoubtedly improved in many wavs which are not reflected in the statistics
of money wages or even of real vages. Compulsory free education for all
inexpensive electricity for lighting in every tiny village and for motive
power in every family workshop--such things as these are usually not associ-
ated with a standard of living as meagre as that of the Japanesc in many
important respects. Again it is very difficult to appraise consumption
habits which are very different from those to which we are accustomed. The
Japanese diet consisting mainly of rice, fish and vegetables is undoubtedly
deficient in fats and is by no means an optimum diet--but very few people
even in the United States and in the Unitcd Kingdom live on an optimum diet.
On the whole, the Japanese dict is better balanced than many a more expensive
one which does not contain vegetables and fish in abundance.
Whatever the deficicncies, and they are considerable, Japan has
achieved a standard of living which is high for an Oriental country. This
standard can be maintained and improved only by continued industrialization
and expansion of international tradc. This will not be easy. There are
grave difficulties in the way of such a development evcn if the victorious
United Nations do not forbid it.
Any industrial country which depends very much on foreign trade for
essential foodstuffs and raw materials is in a very vulnerable position,
sensitive to political and cconomic changes clsewhere in the vorld. This
vulnerability may be somerhat reduced by gold production or large foreign
investments or by an empire or sphere of influence (such as the Sterling Bloc
or the Yen Bloc) where prcferential trade treatment is assured. We can not
and do not accept this vulnerability as an excuse or reason for aggressive
expansion at the expense of weaker countries but it is an important problem
which. we should face frankly, and one which we tend to gloss over. We say
that any country can buy foodstuffs and raw materials in world markets without
being very realistic as to means of payment. Colonies are presumably a head-
ache and an expense but does any nation give them up volunterily?? Colonial
sources of raw materials and colonial markets, though limited, can be counted
on more definitely than foreign materials and markets. They give a certain
sense of security and power to an industrial-trading nation. Imagine England
facing the futurc without her empire as well as with most of her foreign in-
vestments liquidated in the course of the war!
1. One Harvard professor who lived many years in Japan states froquantly in
class that the average maid servant in Japan can afford to have better
medical attention than the averege college professor in the United States.
2.
The Philippine Islands are perhaps an excention, but it is also true that
they competed with rather then complemented the domestic economy.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
9
This problem of economic security for a whole nation is not a matter
of such grave conccrn to gret continental povers like the United States and
the U.S.S.R. whose domestic resources cre very considerable and where foreign
trade is rolatively unimportant as compared with domestic tráde, but even in
the United States, we cre vorried cbout the means whereby we can export enoug
after the var to insure both full employment and high wages. It is doubtful
that any plen for collcctive security can be successful in the long run vhich
does not rocognizc and deal vith this problem of nntional economic insecurity.
Japan has clvays found if difficult to pey for her exports except for
a brief time during the first rorld var. This vas true even in periods vhen
Japanese trade expension cnd Jopanese competition were causing serious conccrn
in foreign countries. Betveen 1900 and 1937 thert vere only six yerrs in
which commodity exports paid for commodity imports--in 1909, 1915-18 and 1935.
Before the first world mar, Japan peid for her excess of imports by borroving
abroad. Then the war, by grectly expending Jananese trade and shipping, re-
lieved the strain on the Japenese balance of payments. Between 1915 and 1919,
Japan piled up a not credit of 5 billion yen on merchandise trade and service
items (mostly net receipts from shipping). This was nore than trice her net
foreign indebtedness in 19l3. Because of the difficultics involved in making
payments, most of this crcdit ras left in the form of snecie balances abroad.
Nearly half of this tronendous credit balance was attributable to net carnings
from shipping. Then come a long period fro: 1920 to 1931 when the balance of
merchandise trade ras heavily unfavorable and vhen the credit belance on
service items vas not nearly sufficient to make up the differcnce. Japan
first exhausted hcr specie balences abroad, borrored abroad in 1924 and 1930
for earthquakc rcconstruction and to support the yen on the occnsion of the
restoration of the gold standard, and finally shipped substentirl cmounts of
gold in 1930 cnd 1931. The second period of merked tradc expension from 1932
to 1936 vas stinulated by the deprcciation of the yen nd by the nationalizat.
tion of industry and commerce. During this period there ns still a smell
excess of imports but the fovorable brlanc: on invisible itoms excceded the
smell debit balancc on merchondise trade by about 600 million yen. The net
earnings fron shipping in this period amounted to 742 million ven.
The Japancse merchant marinc vas important both during 1915-19 and
1932-36 in bringing about c favorable balence of trade and at other times in
reducing the unfavorable balance. The annual net return vas medest, fluc-
tuating between 100 million yen and 450 million yen, but these carnings helped
to pay for essential imports. Moreover, Japan was able to expand her trade by
selling in many smell and remote markets access to rhich vould probably have
been impossible vithout her orn shipping. These small markets became increas-
ingly necessary after the depression vith the grect decline in exports of raw
silk and the gradual imposition of colonial quotas and other discriminatory
trade regulation which restricted the outlets for cotton textiles. Moulton
fails to mention the Japanesc merchant marine or its earnings except to say in
A footnote on page 84 that "Japan's net international income from the so-called
invisible income has never bulked very large. The princiaal sources of income
were from shipping and remittances of Japan's residents abroad." In reality
the merchent marine may be regarded as one of Japan's most important export
industries.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
10
Japanese trade recovered rapidly between 1932 and 1936, but its
great staple exports, raw silk and cotton textiles, encountered incroasing
resistance on many fronts; exporters were forced to seek ner outlets and to
diversify their offerings. Rar silk exports were affected by the depression
in the United States and by the rise of the rayon industry; cotton textile
exports were influenccd by the rise of domestic textile industries in the
colonial and semi-colonial areas and by the desire of England, France and the
Netherlands to reserve as much of the colonicl market as possible for the
mother country. As India produced more of her on cotton textiles, both
Lancashire and Japan sufferod a decline in their exports. The Japanese cut
prices vhilc Lancashire obtained preferential tariff treatment in the Indian
market.and import quotas in the colonies. Japanese exporters sought other
markets and pushed other products--rayons, woolens, drugs and cheap dyestuffs,
pottery, various types of machinery, instruments and vehicles and countlcss
small wares such as electric light bulbs, toys, rubber footwear, matches and
tinned fish and fruit. Exports of machinery, instruments and vehicles in
1936 exceeded in value imports in the same classification. Among the sub-
stantial items exported were steam boilers, electric motors cnd dynamos,
trensformers, other electriccl mcchinery, pumps, spinning machines, weaving
looms, internal combustion engines, locomotives and railway carriages and
wagons.
If Japan could export to Asiatic countries the products of her her.
heavy industries such cs machinery, vehicles, bulky heavy chemicals, cheap
dyestuffs, chemical fertilizers, rails and equipment for mining end electric
power. developments, it vould not only sustain Japenese trade and industry but
it would help industriclize Indic, China, Malaya, and the Netherlands Indies.
There will be somc outlet for textiles an? other consumers' goods but in-
creasing the scmi-colonial countries will want to build up and protect their
own light industries. There is no special danger that Japan would limit the
possibilities of capital investment and trade by the western porers because a
an area embracing half the world's population needs to be industrialized, to
have its agriculture nd its transportation improved and its natural resources
developed in order that the living standards of the people may be raised from
an incredibly low lcvel. The wostern powers becaus of their superior re-
sources and technology as well as their higher costs might concentrate on
large scale projects. The Japonese vho have had experience in developing
mineral rosources, eloctric nover projects anl both small and large scale
industries on the most slender resources could cxport choap clectrical equip-
ment and simple machinery for village industries end assist in flood control
development of clectric power nd trensportation facilities in poor nd out-
1ying regions. Many bulky metal and chemical products might bc produced and
delivered more cheaply if made in Japan from nerr-by raw material resources
using cheap hydro-clectric pover cn carried in Japanese shipping.
In other vords, it is suggested that the Japanesc be permitted to
retain their heavy industry and their mcrchant marine not only so that thoy
may be the more able to pay for essential foodstuffs and ray mcterials but
also because it may contribute substentially to the inlustrialization of the
rest of the Orient an'? will reduce to a minimum economic dislocations in
those areas vhich had close trade relations with Japan.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
11
This last statement would apply particulerly to Korea, Formose, and
Menehuria. They have been scnding foodstuffs, minercls cnd crule chemicels
to Japan and have been receiving in turn manufactured goods of all kinds. In
addition since 1937 Japan has becn making enormous investments of capital in
strategic inlustries in those areas, largely in the form of capital equip-
dent. These investments and substential earlier investments as well as roads
reilronds, reforestation, harbors, irrigation projects, and improved agri-
cultural crops of nll kinis (rice, sugar, pineapplc, etc.) should constitute
the equivalont of rather large reparations vhen Formosa and Manchuria are
returned to China and Korea becomes inlependent.
Before I conclude, I shoul! like to say a word about the economic
value of the colonics to Japan. I do not agree vith Moulton ho considers
the loss of the colonies to be unimportant from an econoric as contrasted
a strategic point of view. "The colonies prior to 1930 vere, as already
noted, of negligible importance at best. They did not furnish appreciable
outlets for Japanese migration; and from a fiscal point of view they were
liabilities rather than assets. Thcir only importance lay in furnishing
meager outlets for Japanese capital an? enterprisc and in broadcning to some
extent the crea over vhich relatively free trade might be conducted. Whether
these gains offset the costs involver? to the Japanese Treasury is certainly
open to question." I This samc argument in almost all its details could be
applied to the valuc of Indin vithin the British Empire.
An increase in the sizc of vhat is virtually the home market, a
potenticl outlet for investment and enterprise in relatively undeveloped
territory end opportunities for administrators, professioncl men, managers,
and experts of various types apparently has importont psychological effects
in c home country which has advanced fairly far along the road to industrial
maturity. The hopes of large profits do not cctually have to be realized on
any scale for this influence to be powerful. We saw something like this at
work in America in the trenties when Americrn industry was booming as a con-
sequence of exports paid for by American loans which could never be collected.
At the end of the present war re expect to extend huge credits to enable
other countries to purchase American exports and we are not too much concerned
as to whether thc credits will turn out to be gifts or loans.
Actually Jopen's trade with her colonies was of great and increasing
importence to both the mother country cnd the colonies. In a period of rapid
trade expansion, the colonial trade increased much faster then the foreign
trade. The trade of Japan with Formosa and Korea was equal to about 15 rer
cent of the foreign trade in 1915 and 1920, to about 30 per cent of the
foreign trade from 1930 to 1937, cnd then rose to 44 per cent in 1938 and
1939. The rapid rise after 1937 is associated with an acceleration in the
rate of capital exports to Korea. To Japan this trade vith the colonies and
Manchuria represented a certain degree of economic security and there ccr-
tainly were benefits on both sides. Regardless of worl? depressions or
groring economic nationalism in the rest of the world, Japan could count def-
initely on a minimum of necessary foodstuffs and raw nterials and ever
increasing outlets for both consumer's goods and capital goods. These areas
virtually doubled the size of the domestic market. (In 1940, 146,000,000
versus 73,000,000); the standard of living was lower than in Japan but was
rising vith the development of agriculture, transportation, raw matericl
resources and industry.
1. Moulton and Martio, The Control of Germny and Japan, p.80.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
12
The foregoing is not intended to be construed cs an argument that
should be permitted to rotain these territories after defeat. It is
ious that political considerations require the break-up of the Japanese
pire but the broak-up is almost certain to have unfortunate oconomic
epercussions on both sides. One may dray an analogy with the break-up of
the Austro-Hungarian Empire at the end of the last war. If the possibilities
are clearly reclized, it may be possible to relieve somevhat thc shock of
transition.
Theoretically it should be possible for Japan to support her large
and still groring population on the home islands if she is cllowed to retain
her industrics (especially her heavy inlustries) and her merchant marino and
to engage freely in international trade. By purchasing foodstuffs cnd rew
materials and by exporting not only consumer's goods but also transportation
equipment, cheap machinery, industrial chemicals, dycstuffs and fertilizers.
Japan could contribute substantially to thc improvement of agriculture, com-
munication and industry throughout Asia. Thether or not, in practicc, she
will be permitted to do this is another question.
Moulton recognizcs this aspect of the problem when he says "The
reel issuc vith respect to Japan's economic future is rooted in postwar inter-
national commercial policy. If the United Nations move toward lessened
impediments to international trade rather than in the direction of intensi-
fied economic nationalism n? super-protectionism, Japan--vithout colonies-
cen live and prosper." 1
We should face the f: ct that we may be moving toward more regulated
trade rather than the reverse en? clso that all thc reasohs for discrimina-
ticn against Japanese trade hich vere prevalmt from 1930 on will exist in
intensified form at the en? of this war because of the hatred roused by the
Jrpanese as a consequence of the ruthless cfficicncy with which they have
vagedwar.
Whilc on the one hand, it is hoped that the United States vill
adcpt the libercl tradc policics suitable to hor position as a crodit nation,
there is the possibility that she will attempt to expand cxports by extending
huge credits which vill bc more of the nature of gifts than of lons. Such
loans will probably necessitate increased 'government control of trade. The
governments of many foreign countries will probably control trede at the end
of the war in the interests of reconstruction and financiel rehabilitation.
Presumably the British inten? to continue some system of imperial preference
and the French an? Dutch arc not likely to permit outsiders (especially
former enemies) to participate on equal terms in their colonial markets. The
trade of Russia in the past has been completely state controlled. Since much
more of the world vill be in the Russicn sphere, if not actuelly incorporated
into the U.S.S.R., at the cnd of the var, Russien policy and practice will be
of tremen lous importance, especially in the Fer East where additional terri-
tories may be included in the U.S.S.R. Such economic chaos and political
instability may prevail in Korca and Manchuria after the vithdrawal of the
1. Moulton and Martio, The Control of Germany and Japan. p. 84

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
15
mpanese ns to furnish a reason for Russien protection and guidance. There
is clso uncertainty as to the future of communist China. It is possible that
the trade of these regions may be almost entirely with Soviet Russia. The
industrialization of the Soviet Far East would then procede even more repidly,
Americen textile manufacturers cre already demanding action which
will reduce the menace of Japanese competition in world markets after the war.
There is a widely held wiew that Japan must be deprived of her heavy induatry
and her merchant marine to prevent future aggression.
The industrinlizction of backward regions, high and discriminatory
tariffs and colonial quotas were already limiting the possibilities of Japan-
ese trade expansion by 1935. It is entirely possible that the war end the
new problems raised by the war will further limit the possibilities of foreign
trade and that the foodstuffs, raw matericls end markets of her former colo-
nies will no longer be available to Japan.
It is interesting to speculate on vhat might happen in such a case.
People in extreme economic distress have in the past turned to some new form
of authoritative government. Since militarism and extreio nationalism will
have been thoroughly discredited in Japan by humiliating defeat, and since
there has been a good del of sympathetic interest in communism on the part
of young intellectuals and a small group of labor leaders, it is possible
that Japen might turn to communism and much closer ties with Russia. Whether
or not this would be a fortunate move for Japan end for the rest of the worlu
would depend on developments in Russia itself and Russia's relations with
other countries.
Note: I havc not attempted to decl with this problem comprehensively since
that has been done so well in the two works mentioned in the first paragruph
with which I agrec whole-heartedly. I have attempted to stress the few
points of difference end to bring out complications and difficulties since
it seems to be that there is always a tendency to oversimplify problems of
international relations--especially in the Far East.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.96)
12-1944
CP
UNIVERSITIES COMMITTEE ON POST-WAR INTERNATIONAL PROBLEMS
ON OF COMMERCIAI POLICY
Report of the
FEB 3 1945
PRINCETON REGIONAL CONFERENCE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
gnd
Japan
JuDo07-18, 194
 DEC 1 9 1944
30 representatives of 20 Cooperating Groups met with members of the Cen-
tral and Executive Committees and several specially invited guests at a Regional
894.50/12-1944
Conference in Princeton, N. J., on June 17-18, to discuss the post-war treatment of
Japan. Headquarters were at the Nassau Tavern, where the three principal sessions
of the Conference were held. Saturday afternoon members of the Conference were the
guests of President and Mrs. Dodds at tea served on the lawn of their home.
First Session - Saturday afternoon, June 17.
Professor Perry opened the meeting at 2:30. He introduced the members of
the Conference and appointed a Drafting Committee, consisting of Professors R.H.
Wells (Chairman), F.W.-Notestein and C.A. Baylis, to prepare a summary of any agree-
ments reached and report to the Conference at its Sunday session. Ho called atten-
tion to a number of points upon which agreement could perhaps be presumed. They
include the basic assumption set forth in the original analysis, the. general pur-
poses to be realized, and the agreements already reached by the Cooperating Groups
in their discussions. He suggested that these items of agreement be accepted as a
point of departure for further discussion. Briefly stated, they are as follows:
Basic Assumptions:
1. The military defeat of Japan will be complete and will be followed
by "unconditional surrender," as envisaged in the Cairo Communique
of December 2, 1943.
Security against military aggression after the war will be sought
through a general international organization as envisaged in the
Moscow Declaration of October 30, 1943.
3。
The provisions of the Atlantic Charter and the Cairo Communique will
be accepted as guiding principles, insofar as they are applicable,
in determining the treatment to be accorded to a defeated Japen.
3
Purposes toobe Achieved:
1
1. To deprive Japan of the fruits of her aggression and force her
Dar- nE 
make reparation for damage done.
To punish Japan, either the nation as a whole or responsible indi-
viduals, for her military aggression and for illegal and inhumane
acts committed during the war.
3.
To restore to all people the independence of which they have been
deprived, and to secure for all peoples the opportunity "to choose
the form of government under which they shall live." (Atlantic Char-
ter.)

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
2
4. To provide security against future military aggression by Japan.
5.
5.
To provide enjoyment for all nof access, on equal terms, to the
trade and to the raw materials of the world which are needed for
their economic prosperity." (Atlantic Charter.)
6.
To lay the basis for enduring peace in the Pacific area by pro-
viding, if possible, for the eventual incorporation of Japan on
equal terms into the community of nations.
Points Generally Agreed on by the Cooperating Groups in their Reports:
1. Insofar as possible, responsibility for accepting terms of "uncondi-
tional surrender" should be placed on the military leaders responsible
for the war.
2.
The territorial dispositions of the Cairo Communique should be carried
out.
3. Japan should be required to restore or give compensation for property
unlawfully acquired in the course of her military aggression.
4.
While, on grounds of moral responsibility, heavy reparations claims
against Japan can be justified, the amount of reparations to be col.
lected should be determined largely by the willingness of the claim-
ants to receive goods and services, the ability of Japan to pay, and
the effect of reparations payments upon the development of coopera-
tive and peace-desiring attitudes among the Japanese people. Rela-
tively amall payments are envisaged.
5. No attempt should be made to mete out punishment to the Japanese
people as a whole, but individual Japanese should be punished for
their crimes.
6.
The Policies of the United Nations should be directed toward securing
the eventual participation of Japan on terms of equality in the com-
munity of nations, since this will afford the best guarantee of secu-
rity and prosperity in the Pacific area. This will only be possible
when the Japanese people and their government give reasonable assur-
ance of their peaceful intentions and their willingness to respect
the independence and equality of others.
The Chairman proposed that the Conference concentrate on these three
Questions: (1) Whut special measures, other than the guarantees provided in the
general internationel orgainzation envisaged in the Moscow Declaration, should be
taken to prevent Japanese aggression in the future? (2) What measures can the vic-
tor nations take to encourage the Japanese to reject militarism and autocracy and to
develop instead a liberal democratic government which will cooperate peacefully in
the community of nations? (3) What disposition should be made of the Pacific Islan
islands now under Japanese mandate?
Professor Porry asked Sir George Sansom and Professor Notestein to open
the discussion. These two speakers agreed that if the program of the Cairo Declara-
tion is carried out, if Japan is thoroughly defeated, stripped of all but her main
islands, and completely disarmed, her war potential will be so reduced that aggres-
sion will be practically impossible for her for at least a generation. In the mean-
time, if a strong China is developed, and an effective international organization es-

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
ablimhed, further aggression from Japan will be at most a remote possibility. To
susgested comparison with Germany!s rapid recovery after the first world war, Sir
George.replied that the situations are quite different. Germany after her defeat
in lg1s, remained the economic heart of a continent, whereas Japan, deprived of her co.
colonies, will not have available either the foreign exchange or the raw materials
necessary for rearmament.
To a question as to the possibility of supporting the Japanese people
adequately by concentration on agriculture, it was pointed out that the population
averages about 3000 per square mile of arable land, only 16%5of the total land area
of the Japanese home islands being arable, and hence that industry as well as agri-
culture is necessary if the present Jepanese standard of living is to be maintained,
let alone raised. Only by raising the general standard of living, Professor Notes-
tein urged, could a decrease in the Japanese birth rate be effected.
Professor Hocking urged that both light and heavy industry are necessary
for Japan. Ho pointed out that under the control of the Japanese militarists light
industry had been minimized and heavy industry emphasized.  liberal Japanese Govern-
ment devoted to peace could correct this artificial lack of balance between the two
and greatly increase the proportion of light industry. But a certain amount of heavy
industry is needed to support this light industry, and this we must allow Japan, not
merely for the sake of her own economic well being but for that of the Orient in gen-
eral. Indeed, one of the important reasons for maintaining Japanese industry at a
reasonable level of productivity is the need to use its products for the rebuilding 
of China's industrial establishment to a position ahead of Jepan's.
Dr. Chan urged keeping Japanese heavy industry to a minimum. He was
joined by others who expressed fear of the potentialities such industry would give
Japan. In reply, several members of the Conference urged that light industry was
impossible without heavy and that to impose stringent restrictions on heavy industry
would be, in effect, to reduce Japanese economy to an agricultural level.
Professor Glass proposed that as a portion of her reparations bill Japan
be required to turn over financial control of her heavy industry to the general inter-
national organization, this control to continue until a reformed Japan is admitted
to the international organization on terms of full equality. Such a move would lea
leave Japanese heavy industrial production intact but would pro vide effective inter-
national control over it and thus greatly simplify the supervision of Japanese dis-
armament.
Mr. Dennett and Professor Lovejoy pointed out that the extent to which
Japan should be allowed to reestablish her industrial plant depends in large part
on the type of post-war government that develops in Japan. This turned the discus-
sion to the second of the two questions raised by the Chairman.
The Japanese military groupsmust be thoroughly discredited and forced out
of power, it was urged. The Japanese army, navy and air force must be demobilized,
and general disarmament enforced. It must be made clear that militarism does not
pay. On the other hand, as Dr. Chan pointed out, it should also be made clear that
a change of heart will pay, that the rest of the world will cooperate with a liberal,
democratic, peace-loving Japan and will contribute to her economic prosperity ra-
ther than her ruin.
Professors Gardner and Hocking urged that there are many potentialities
for the growth of democratic forces in Japan and that wise action on the part of
the victor nations could encourage their growth and help them to power. Japan has
learned, it was urged, much of her militariem and imperialism and racism from the
western powers, and we might well become better teachers, not only by precept but by

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
Professer Hocking commented that in helping Japan we must not forget, how-
ever, that we are primarily interested in the Far East in the growth of a strong
and democratic China. Several speakers testified that there is no interest, either
in this country or in Britain, in using Japan as a counterfoil to China in Asia. On
the contrary, we want a strong China, not only for her sake but as a counterweight
to the possibility of Japanese aggression at a later period. While it would take a
long time for China to become strong enough to defeat Japan entirely by her own ef-
forts, she could soon become sufficiently powerful so that with the backing of the i
international organization, the strength arrayed against Japan would be a potent de-
terrent. It was remarked that in this whole picture in the Far East much depended
on the attitude of the Soviet Union.
The discussion turned to the occupation of Japan by the victorious mili-
tary forces of the United Nations. General agreement was reached quickly that what-
ever occupation proves necessary should be as short as possible. It was urged that
the occupation should be international in character but should be made largely by
Chinese troops. A long occupation by white troops, it was held, would arouse bitter
hatred and tend to make the reorientation of the Japanese very difficult if not im-
possible.
It was suggested that the occupation could be used to place liberal Japan-
ese in power. Immediately, the danger of this was pointed out, that Japanese helped
to power by foreign troops would be regarded as Quislings to be deposed as soon as
the external pressure is removed. Something could be done to help the liberal ele-
ments through giving them charge of the distribution of relief. More could be
achieved by the progressive relaxation of external controls as the Japanese them-
selves make advances toward liberalism and democracy. But, in general, it was red
agreed that only harm would result from direct attempts by the victors to impose
constitutional and governmental changes on the Japanese. We can encourage; we can
reward desirable achievements; but we shall be wise to leave the changes themselves
to the Japanese.
The Chairman asked to what extent racial problems are involved in the prob-
lem of securing peace in the Pacific. It was replied that biological differences
themselves were of little importance but that the psychological differences which
often resulted did cause many practical problems. Professor Hocking urged that many
of these could be transcended by an international law which makes no discriminations
on acial grounds.
The meeting adjourned at 4:45 and members proceeded to President Dodd's
home for tea.
Second Session - Saturday Evening, June 17.
This session was devoted to a discussion of the post-war role of the Ja-
panese mandated islands in relation to military strategy and civil aviation. It
was opened by a speaker especially well acquainted with the problems of trans-
Pacific aviation. Confining himself to the "practical facts" of the situation and
eschewing all political considerations, he pointed out that the problems of civil
aviation and those of military aviation are quite distinct. For the former, where
the interest is in direct routes between points from which air traffic originates,
one landing area in the Marianas would suffice for American routes to the Far East
in addition to the islands the United States possessed before the war. Saipan
would be best suited to the needs of the big land based transports of the future.
For military security reasons, on the other hand, the United Nations, or

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
one or more of them, must control the whole of the mandated islands. They
as admirable staging points for military planes and would constitute a con-
nt threat to the security and peace of the Pacific area were they to fall into
the hands of a power bent on military aggression.
After a few questions requesting further details the discussion turned
to the broader problem of the disposition of the Japanese mandated islands. Granted
that they will be taken from Japan, what disposition should then be made of them? Itw
It was proposed that for the satisfaction of our own interests in civil aviation and
national security, it would be simplest and most efficient for the United States to
assume complete sovereignty over them.
Many objections to this neat solution came from members of the Conference.
It was pointed out that other nations, too, are interested in air transportation
over the central Pacific, and that other nations have even more vital defensive in-
terests in the neutralization of the Japanese mandated islands. Was the United
States to be as imperialistic as any nation on the globe? What kind of an impres-
sion would it produce throughout the the Far East and among all the dependent
peoples of the world if the United States were to assume by right of conquest com-
plete control over all these islands? Finally it was asked whether the United
States was going to seek to protect its interests by unilateral action or by partici-
pation in a general system of collective security. The high price and the ultimate
futility of the former alternative were pointed out, as well as the incompatibility
of exclusive United States control of the mandated islands with the latter.
There was considerable discussion of various possible forms of interna-
tional control but little agreement as to which was best. The speaker regarded con-
dominion as unsatisfactory. Professor Hocking pointed out the disadvantages of the
League of Nations mandates system, but urged that there was a general trend toward
regarding control of a dependent area as a trusteeship, toward the responsibility of
a colonial power to some international institution. Some members advocated regional
international control, while others favored direct control by the global interna-
tional organization.
Third Session - Sunday morning, June 18.
Sir George Sansom spoke briefly on the political development of Japan since
1868. In opposition to the traditional feudal oligarchy many steps were taken toward
representative institutions, and to some extent, under the influence of the commer-
cial and financial interests, toward internationalism. These developments were
halted about 1930, due in part to the depression, and a reaction from democracy
toward feudalimm set in. Opposition to this trend has since continued on a small
scale but has not been effective. Sir George stated that he believes that liberal
elements in Japan have survived the war and might rise to power if given the proper
encouragement by the victorious powers. Ho thinks that direct imposition of politi-
cal changes would be unwise but that much can be done by providing the right condi-
tions for the democratic forces in Japan, and suitable rewards for steps achieved
along the road to democracy and peace.
Professor Wells presented a report for the Drafting Committee. After much
discussion it was approved in revised form with only one dissenting vote. That
member indicated that his objection was only to the phrase "and a strong China" in the
the thirdpoposition. He thought that China should not be singled out for special
mention.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
6
AREA OF AGREEMENT
Uming as points of departure the principles of unconditional surrender
the total dissolution of the Japanese Empire as provided by the Cairo Communique
Conference agreed to the following:
1. The terms of peace should, in general, be designed to discredit the
militarist elements in Japan, to bring home to the Jupanese people
the fact of defeat, and to encourage the emergence of a political re-
gime willing to cooperate on friendly terms with other countries.
2. Complete military defeat, effective disarmament pending the establish-
ment of a general security system, and elimination of political, econ-
omic and strategic controls outside of Japan proper are necessary to
prevent a recurrence of Japanese aggression.
3. The chief guarantee of long-run security in  the Pacific is to be found
in a general security system and a strong China.
Tho military occupation of Jepan should be limited to the period and
extent necessary to enforce the terms of surrender and should be in-
ternational in character.
5. To promote the economic development of China and to prevent economic
chaos in Japan, it is essential that Japanese industrial productivity
be maintained. With disarmament and the consummation of the reforms
mentioned in point 6, there will be a natural tendency for Japanese
industry to reorient itself toward the supply of peacetime needs.
6. If Japan: is to be accepted in the community of nations on the basis of
equality, political, social and economic reforms are necessary. These
reforms cannot be imposed from without but must develop from within.
There is reason to believe that such developments are possible given
appropriate encouragement by the victor nations.
7., Whon these reforms have been malized and Jupan has given satisfactory
evidence of her intention to cooperate with other nations on peaceful
terms, all discriminatory controls should be eliminated, and Japan
should be given equality of treatment in her international relations.
8. Because of their importance in the fields of military strategy and
civil aviation, the future disposition of the Japanese mandated islands
is of concern both to the United States and to other nations. These
islands should not be permanently allocated to the exclusive control
of any one nation but, after temporary occupation by the victorious
military forces, should be placed under international control - either
regional or global - in the general interest.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
TO
ILH - Mr. Mu11iken
DATE: December 22, 1944
FROM
ILH - Mr. Plank
SUBJBCT:
Meeting to Discuss Organization of Economic Work on Japan
A meeting was held in Mr. Haley's office on December 20
to consider the problem of organizing the economic work on
Japan. Two memoranda relating to question were brought to
the attention of the Committee: (i) A proposal from CP
suggesting that an ECA Committee representing the various
divisions and independent of the Area Committee should be
established to plan and coordinate a program of studies and
to submit appropriate policy documents to the Area Committee
for comment or directly to the State Department Policy Com-
mittee or ECEFP; and (2) A plan submitted by FMA to consti-
5
tute a small coordinating group of two or three people with
0
one person designated as responsible for policy recommenda-
1
tions on Japan following the pattern set by the designation
of Emile Despres to have charge of economic work on Germany.
2
8
In the discussion of the two proposals, CP indicated
2244
scepticism as to the desirability of following a general
practice of attaching area specialists to the ECA office.
I indicated that the need for coordination might well be
met by constituting a small ECA group, representing the in-
terested ECA divisions, with the chairman functioning in the
capacity of a coordinator and being advised and assisted by
the committee. Mr. Gay indicated that this procedure would
be consistent with their proposal.
The problem of working out satisfactory relations with
the Area Committee, WEA and outside agencies was discussed
at considerable length. It was agreed that the development
of desirable relationships with the Area Committee might
C
prove very difficult but should proceed along the following
S
lines: (1) The chairman of the Area Committee should be
A1
advised of plans to establish an ECA Committee; (2) Should
be consulted regarding projects to be undertaken; (3) Re-
ports prepared should be submitted to Area Committee for
comments and not general revision or rewriting; and (4) The
two groups should endeavor to reconcile any differences
with regard to reports and if this was not possible to sub-
8
mit views separately to a higher policy level. It was strong-
ly emphasized that the ECA Economic Committee should be in-
dependent of the Area Committee from an organization stand-
9
point.
DCR-OFD UNIT
Mr. Luthringer
2
Aral.
-2244
List.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Mr. Luthringer stated that he felt the economic work
on Japan could be handled more expeditiously through the
arrangement suggested and that only the two Divisions pri-
marily concerned (FMA and CP) should be represented on the
coordinating committee. Mr. Haley asked whether ILH was
interested and would want representation. I expressed the
view that ILH was definitely interested in the aspect of
labor and social conditions and institutions, as well as
other economic phases of a related character. With refer-
ence to Mr. Luthringer's remarks, I pointed out that it was
my personal impression that ECA, though divided into divi-
sions, should function as a unit rather than in watertight
compartments. I stressed the fact that ILH's functions as
specified in the directive establishing the Division were
both of a specialized and general character. In a general
sense, the Division had the responsibility of studying eco-
nomic foreign policy recommendationa, advising the Department
upon the effects of such recommendations on labor, and
making suggestions with respect thereto. This function, I
indicated, could not be performed unless the Division was
fully informed as to the nature of the recommendations.
Mr. Haley stated that he was sympathetic with the
views expressed and realized the special position of ILH
in this respect.
Summarizing the trend of the discussion, Mr. Haley
suggested that it seemed to be agreed that an ECA Economic
Committee on Japan should be established. This Committee
would be restricted in membership to the interested divi-
sions and would act generally in the capacity of a plan-
ning and coordinating body, rather than a working group.
It should not be necessary, he felt, to clear all studies
which the Committee requested to be undertaken with all
the divisions formally; rather the divisions not primarily
concerned could maintain liaison with the officer or of-
ficers having responsibility for the particular report and
present any views that they might have. He also suggested
the arrangement established should not be regarded as per-
manentin view of possible organizational changes.
Mr. Luthringer and Mr. Gay were asked to prepare a
memorandum incorporating the conclusions of the group.
SNP
ILH:EHP/rmo

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.93)
WAR AREAS
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ECONOMIC DIVISION
RECLIVEO
OF THE
FEB 1 4 1945
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
 PM 1 08
AMERICAN LEGATION
Bern, December 29, 1944
No. 10407
NICATIONS
RECORDS
Subject!
Japan's Work of Reconstruction.
Reocordi
zlon
sc/R
Unrestricted
FEB 6 1945
agr
Fea
Taip
JAN 2 0 1945
2 wai
PARTMENT OF STATE
hary
oss
International Information
894.50/14-2944
2BC
n2.
DIVISION OF COMMEHUTAL POLICY
HAQ
2/5
FEB91945
1945
Separtpent of Srat:
MAR7
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that the HAMBURGER FREMDEN-
BLATT, December 19, 1944, published an article entitled:
"Japan's Work of Reconstruction", a full summary of which is
enclosed.
The article reviews the reconstruction work carried out
by Japan in Manchukuo, Northern China and French Indo-China
and summarizes the Japanese efforts to increase the production
of raw materials vital to the war effort. It also describes
the recent changes in the economic structure of Japan and
states that in future Japan should be the economio penter of
the Far East and constitute an industrial kernel of an agri-
cultural area.
Respectfully yours,
FILED
Mamh
CS
J. Klahr Huaale
0
Chargé d'Affaires a.i.
Enelosure:
as stated.
File No. 850
sopy to the Department.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
to despatah No. 10407, December 29, 1944,
American Logation, Bern).
Japan's Work of Reconstruction.
(SOuroe: HAMBURGER FREMDENBLATT, December 19, 1944).
Japan has proved to be a real force in the reconstruotion
of territories which it has oocupied. Japan has not taken
over any country which enjoyed a stable economio order and
was often obliged to build up an economic structure; in some
areas it was forced to repair extensive war damages and over-
come considerable difficulties resulting from the defective
administration of oultivation monopolies of rubber, sugar and
other products, whioh was a heritage of British and American
methods of exploitation. Finally, it was compelled to master
great traffic and transportation obstacles. Japan has al-
ready solved these problems to an extent that proves a real
and lasting order.
It must be remembered that formerly Japan by no means
possessed a rigid state-controlled economy, but that on the
contrary, its economy was dependent from the large closely
held family conceßns characterized by strong liberal capital-
istic traits. The idea of a state-controlled economy was due
exclusively to the Army. It was also the Army which, at the
start of the Manchukuo expansion policy, began the recon-
struction of Japan, according to the fundamental principles
of controlled economy. According to a research study in
the HEFTEN ZUR WIRTSCHAFTSFORSCHUNG (Publisher: Prof. Dr.
E. WAGEMANN, Issue No. 3, 1943/44), the gigantic concern of
the Southern Manchukuo Railway Company, halr the capital of
which was in the hands of the Manchukuo overnment, was the
organ of this state-controlled economy.
The company was administered by the economic staff of
the Supreme Command of the Kwantung Army. Thirty official
and semi-official subsidiary offices were founded for all im-
portant industrial branohes. In due time, the severe mili-
tary control exercised over Manchukuo economy, owing to the
intensification of applied state-controlled economy, slackened
gradually, a fact which was proved by the founding of the
Company for Industrial Development, with a capital of 450
million Yuan, half in the hands of the Government and half in
the hands of the Japanese industrial company NISSAN, there-
fore in this instance, introducing private capital to a certain
extent.
This same system of creating large holding-companies
was also applied in Northern and Central China. The Northern
China Development Company and the Central China Development
Company served in this case as organs for economic management.
The China-Japanese Council in Peking was the managing organi-
zation, together with the China Office in Tokio, later trans-
formed into the China Seotion of the Greater Asia Ministry.
In the Southern arem a different method was employed,
namely large holding-companies were not created, but the
development

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.96)
orredto
which worked as co
in ay cass, has succceded in repeiring to a con-
extent the damages of war, whieh donstitutes the
aee in she reconstruotion plan, The second phase,
of maehimery and intensirying the pmbduction of
a produass - explosives, aluminum and airoraft fuel
fimmlly beightening the exploitation of raw materials i
for the third reconstruction phase, comprise the future pe
coonemie order and have, in part, already been started. In
foed-seenomy field, efforts will be mede to render each imel
vidual area and country extensively self-sufricient. For the
remminder, however, autarohy will be promoted over the entire
arem. The eeonomic center of this area will be Japan itself,
whose agrioultural population will be maintained at about 40
pereent of the entire population and, in the newly acquired
Southern torritory, it will be represented instead, by 90
pereent of the population. The Japanese mother-country should
therefore be the industrial kernel of a predominantly agri-
eultural area, with a prevalency of high-quality precision
meehanical apparatus for the machine-and eleotrreal industry
and certain chemical industries. Around this area lies the
zone of the Manchukuo and Chinese industries, consisting of
mining, heavy industry and light-metal production and ourrent
generation. The third zone, that of the Southern area, will
constitute mainly a source of raw material supply, but it is
not exeluded that certain industries working on a raw materl
basis, will be transferred there, such as, for example, the
aluminum and pig iron industries.
The creation of direct over-land communication between
China and French Indo-China, as a result of the successful
Japanese offensive campaign in Southern China, inoreases
Japem's prospeets of being able to draw to a greater extent on
Fronch Indo-China as a source of supply.
After the outbreak of the second World-War and as a
comsequence of French Indo-China being cut off from Europe
and Ameriea, a complete reorganization of its industry was
neeessary. Indo-China now directed its economic policy toward
eollaboration with Japan and initiated an industrializatiom
poliey in order to be able to cover the supply requirementm
its inhabitants. The Japanese have had a decisive influemes
in the preduction of cottom,zine, rosin, carbide, paper and
woodemsomips and have thereby considerably increased Freneh
Indo-Chins's preduetive capacity.
Although the produotion of all these goods is still
limited, technical and material assistanee played en impoptant
part in the further economic development of Fremek Indo-@mine.
On the other hand, Freneh Indo-Chine contributes very oamsi-
 one of the lergest riee surplus producing countries im
Mastern Asie.
/
