894.114 Regulations Governing, Japan, Traffic In Liquors And Habit-Forming Drugs. Each Subdivision Will Be Made A Separate Case., May 6, 1930 - March 19, 1935 (File 854)
ID: 894.114-854   Pages: 342   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.114-regulations-governing-japan-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
SUBJECT
TRAFFIC IN NARCOTICS - JAPAN.
DATE
May 6. 1930.
894.114 NARCOT1CS/51 TO
CASE NUMBER
100
No.
JACKET
2
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with office stamp or
notations.
1—1235

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.11421
SEE500 C 1197/379
FOR
124
FROM ..... Japan
(Nev11l) DATED May .1930
TO
NAME
1—1127
INDEX BUREAU
REGARDING:
visit of the Commission of Inquiry into Opium
Conditions, to Japan. Discussion of their findings.
b

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo, May 6, 1950.
184
The Honorable
The Seeretary of tuto
washington.
31r1
I have the honor to report that the League of Nations
Commisaien of Inquiry into Upium onditions in the Far Yast
has comeluded ite visit to Japan and its possessions. This
Commission, I understand, was appointed by the League to
imquire into the manner in whioh the provisions of Chapter II
of the Magme Opium Convention have been oarried out by the
sigmatory Pewers. This Chapter provides for the gradual
suppressiom of the traffie in " prepared opium", or opium
for

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.95)
8
smoking purposes.
The Amerioan Consul at Dairen, Xwantung Leased Territory,
M. W.R. Langden, and the viee Consul in Charge at Taihoku,
Formosa, r. Charles S. Reed 1l, have reported to the mbassy
o the visit of the Commission to their posts. Their reports
are painstaking and thorough and I take oo asion here to commend
highly the oa able manner in whie! they have been prepared.
These two regions are the only laces under Jap nese jurisdiction
where opium smoking is lieensed by the Goverament. The Com-
missiom arrived in Formosa on February 19, 1930, and in Dairen
on Mareh 22, 1930. The Commission seems to have spent about
ten days in Formosa and about a week in the Avantung Leased
Territory.
The visit of this Comaission naturally evokes interest
in the opium qu stion, pa ticularly opium smoking. Japan has
been in control of Formosa sinoe lö96 and of the Kwantung Leased
Territory sinoe 1906. In both these areas the Government has
operated an opium onopoly, one of the avowed objeets of which
has been to bring about a gradual elimination of the practiee
of amoking opium. It may be of interest to examine how far
this method has been effective in praotioe.
In l902 thereware, according to the report of the Govern-
mont Genoral of Taiwan(Formose), 143,492 lioensed smokers of
opium in the colony. By l929 this number had been reduced to
26,94s. The amount of repared opium sold by the lonopoly
deereased from 126,694 k1lograms to 34,970 k1lograms 1n 1928.
The amount of raw opium imported deoroased from l46,1lo
kilograms in 1902 to 21,374 kilograms in 1929. Tho value, or
momey, paid to the onopoly by opium smokers amounted to
Yom 8,101,763 1n 1902 and t0 Yen 4,103,960 1n 1928, evidently
due to inereased charges by the monopoly.
Oatonsibly

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.93)
3
Ostemsibly the poliey was successful. Opium eonsumption
was falling off due to the gradual reduction of the nuaber of
amokere and the inoreased price at whieh the drug was sold.
At the Geneva Conferunee in l924-25, the Japanese delegation
stated that the time would soon come when the few remaining
addiets oould be treated medioally, and the evil would no
longer exist in the Island as a social problem. of the
26,942 reg1stored smokers practlcally none ere under forty
years of age and the bulk were ovor ifty. it would be reason-
able to asaume that in five or ten years at the most opium
smoking would bo confinod to a few r latively old persons.
A survey conduoted by the overiwent eneral during the winter
just passed rovealed, hownver, that there was  large number
of illieit smokere of opium whose supply of opium was
evidently obtained from sug lers. Thie number was said to be
angwher from 3,000 to 50,000. he overnment 1s reported
to have mocepted betmeen 5,0) and 50, Oo0 applioations for
lieenses from poreons who deolared thomselves amokors and who
sere not reglstereú as suah. r. eed in his report quotes
looal authority as estimating that thore were some 20,000
meoret emokors who did not apply for liconsos. In any ease,
although the exmst figures appeur to be in doubt, the attempt
to eradicate opiwm s oking in or  sa by means f Monopoly
©ontrel ovor & puriod of some thirty years has not been very
suoesssful. The number of admitted addiete who are unregistered
is apparently at least equal to the number of lioensed amokers
nd ismmy be wiee as great.
Im the Kwantung Leased Territory conditions appear to be
woree then in Formema. r. Langdon reports that the importation
os

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.93)
6
of opium inereased from 18,284 pounds 1n l920 to 86,583 pounds
im the first eight momths of l929. e reports the number of
livensed addiote as elightly over 2, 000 in 1913 and as ex-
ceedimg S0,0 0 in 1987. It is osmible that uch of this
imorease is due to u desire on the part of the Government to
earoll all opiwm smokers on the booke of the Monopoly and thus
obtaim some mort of control over them. in addition there is a
large more or less transient or non permanent hinese population
many of whom are confirmed opium smokers. Opium is roadily
obseimable in chinese territory adjacent to the Xsantung eased
Territery and the Jepanese authorities undoubtedly find it
diffiemlt to control the trar fie. till, when all allowanoes
are made it must be admitted that the situation is decidedly
unsatisfaotory.
kfter weighing all the evidenee, it is diffioult to
sonolade that control of the traf io 1n prepared opiwm by
Covernment Monopoly has beon successful in reducing the use of
the drug in wrrinorities undor Japanese control. he piain
fast sesms to te that the situation is pretty much what it was
before the Hague Opaum Convention wae signod in l9l2.
I have the honor to be, ir.
Your obedient pervant,
or the Ambassador
Edwin L. Neville
Copy to Dairen
Counselor of Embassy.
Copy to Taihoku
M coy a
ELN/SR
gd r
al.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.92)
Telephoned Foreign Contrl
where this mewspapde was puolcatedt
CRETARY OF STATE
FEDERAL NARCOTICS CONTROL BOARD
was myoroked that Yokahama wes the
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
SECRETARY OF COMMERCE
aity. Ineign Contirl paid that Treasgrig
WASHINGTON, D. C.
peciil agert at Pais was telegpaphed
May 21, 1930.
KBUHVED
this newspaper r the metrueteonts
June
receipt of thes
FAH EASTERN ÁFFAIRS
nodatin
Dept. of State
5/23/30 2t
John K. Caldwell, Esquire,
Department of State
894
Department of State,
Treasnry alev said the
Washington, D. C.
was publistled was Fel, 1930.
Dear Mr. Caldwell:
I hasten to acknowledge receipt of your letter
dated May 15, 1930, wherein you request information con-
cerning the name of the paper and the date of issue which
contained advertisements for the sale of large quantities
of cocaine, and to inform you that the advertisement is
reported to have appeared in a Japanese trade paper known
a the SPOT GOODS REPORTER, about the middle or end of
February, /930.
1951
It is possible your officers in Japan might Be
2~
able to find the paper referred to.
Very truly yours,
Anslinger, Secrefary.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
894.114-Mr
0.70
Edwin L. Beville, Eaguire,
Ameriean Ohargó d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo.
sir:
In the WASHINGTON HERALD of April 29, 1930. there
appeared en article by Kenneth Clark, Universal Service,
the heading and the first part of which read as followa:
"SALES OF DOPE ADVERTISED
BY PAPER IN JAPAN
"1.100 Tons of Cocaine Offered
to Buyer in Orient, Showing Huge
Supply of Narootios.
"These advertisements appeared
recently in a Japanese trade paper:
'No. 808. Code Word Maher--
Cocaine, orystal. Cen supply 100
tons in 25-ounoe tins. Grade N. C.
F. Dutoh manufeoture. Y.22 per ounoe.
inol. duty, spot Tokyo.'
'No. 81o. Cole Word Mahto--
Cocaine orystal. Can supply any
amount up to 1.000 tone. In 25-ounce
tins. Boehringer's brand. Y.22 per
ounoe, inol. duty paid, epot Tokyo.'
"REPORTED TO U. S.
"The secret operative abroad
who ren aoroee the advertisements
wrote a report to the narootio head-
quarters in Washington. from which
Universal Service is pormitted to
quote:
In

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
一 2 -
In reply to a requost for information concerning
the name of the paper and the date of the issue which
centained the advertisement referred to above, the
Seeretary of the Federal Narootios Control Board has
stated that the advertisement appeared in a Japanese
trade paper kmown as the SPOT GOODS REPORTER, about
the middle or end of February, 1930.
In the June issue of the LADIES HOME JOURNAL there
appeared an artiole entitled, "Tons of Poison" by Reginald
Wright Xnuffman, an Amerioan newspaper correspondent in
Geneva, whioh contained the following paragraphs:
"The Spot Goods Reporter was.
until a few years ago, a prosperous
monthly sheet, issued at Yokohama in
both English and Jepanese, deolaring
as its purpose the bringing together
of all scrta of sellers and purohasers
'confidentially and with the strictest
discretion'. On my desk lies one copy
from whioh are taken the following ad-
vertisements frankly published with
the oable-code words to be used in an-
swering them, the prices given in Jap-
anese yen:
"No. 804, Code-word Magso--Morphium
Rydroohloride. Offer 25/30 pounds gen-
uine packing at 16 ounces, Y 20 per ounce.
"Nc. 810, Code-word Mahto--Cooaine.
orystal. Can supply any amount, up to
1000 tons, Y 21 per ounce.
"Up to 1000 tons!
"These were regular, periodio adver-
tisemonts; experience taught the adver-
tisers that they were going to sell. The
open publioation has heen stopped, yet the
market still oarries on under oover. and
these advertisements indioate the quanti-
ties handled."
The Department would be intorested in receiving
any information which you may be able to obtain informally
and anofficially regarding the status of the SPOT GOODS
REPORTER and the offer of Japanese firms to sell such
quantities

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.92)
- 3 -
quantities of narootio drugs. Information comerning
the souroe of the drugs, the method by which Japanese
firms have been able to obtain them, and the destine-
tions of any large amounte which may have been sold
by Japanese firms would be particularly usefnl.
I am, Sir.
Your obedient servant.
For the Secretary of State:
Fruncis White
CR
1930.12 50.m
Jun. 14
894.114 Narcotics/

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
AM RECD
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITÉD STATES OF AMERICA
"Tocyoy July 26, 1930.
INDE
3
No. 215.
6
5
Division of
AUG 14 30
FAN BASTENN AFFAIRS
294.
AUG 1 4 1930
op
Cofiry takece
894.114n16
AUG181930
54
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
894.11.4 narcolies/8
Instruction No. 70, of June 16, 1930, quoting an
article in the WASHINGTON HERALD of April 29, 1930,
and an article in the LADIES HOME JOURNAL for June.
These articles referred to an alleged publication
known as the SPOT GOODS REPORTER of Yokohama.
So far as the Embassy has been able to ascertain,
the SPOT GOODS REPORTER ceased publication in 1922 or
1923.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
1923. Since that time there has appeared occasionally,
I understand, a mimeographed or roughly printed sheet
devoted principally to advertising the sale of narcotic
drugs in bulk. This publication is, I believe, sur-
reptitious; at least, the Japanese authorities are said to
profess ignorance of its existence. As the Department
is aware, the open sale of large quantities of narcotic
drugs would not be sanctioned by the Japanese authorities.
I have no reason to believe that great amounts of
narootios are manufactured in Japan for the illicit trade.
It is possible that there is some leakage from Japanese
factories, but I am convinced that it is not sanotioned
by the authorities and that the Japanese Government is
making a sincere effort to control manufacture and dis-
tribution. In times past Japanese ports have been used
as depots for the storage of narcotic drugs intended for
reexport. This, I believe, has been particularly true
of Kobe, which carries on a large transshipment business.
Up until a few years ago the Japanese made no effort to
investigate or control goods deposited in bond for reexport.
They have correoted this to a certain extent, it is stated,
by requiring export and import permits from the country
of origin or destination, respectively, on all narcotics
deposited in bond. It is possible that the narcotics are
falsely manifested and deposited in bond in the trans-
shipment warehouses. Transshipment of these falsely
manifested goods can then be made by local agents.
This traffio is illicit and the authorities have the
same diffioulty with it that attaches to it elsewhere.
Iam

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
I am sometimes inclined to think that the local
administration is not as effective as it might be, but
I do not believe that it is due to any desire on the
part of the Government to wink at practices which the
country is under treaty obligation, supplemented by domestic
legislation, to suppress.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Eluin t. twith
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.93)
181950.
In reply refer to
FE 894.114 Narcotios/9
89
5
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretery of the Treasury and, re-
ferring to a lettor from the Secretary of the Federal
Narcotios Control Board, dated May 20. 1930, transmits
herewith, for the nformation of the Secretery of the
Treasury, a copy of despatch No. 215, dated July 26.
1930, from the Embussy at Tokyo, regarding the status
of an alleged publioation known as the SPOT GooDs RE-
PORTER of Yokohama, in whioh, it was asserted, oertain
information rogarding the sale of narcotio drugs had
appeared.
Enclosure:
Copy of dospatch No. 215.
dated July 26. 1930. from Tokyo.
A pn copy of
EF
8/15/30
S

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.95)
EE
PM RECU EMBASSY OF THE
ÜNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, August 20, 1930.
No. 235.
FAB EASTERN AFFANE
SEP 1 0 30
SEP 11 193U
Copy
September 17, 1930.
pent to lreas
9/17/30 
INDEX BUREAU
114n16
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
9
Washington.
9
Sir:
1/.
I have the honor to enclose copies in translation
supplied by the Foreign Office, of Department of Home
Affairs Ordinance No. 17, of May 19, 1930, entitled
Regulations for the Control of Narootic Drugs. These
Regulations are designed to give effeot to the Narcotics
Convention conoluded at Geneva in 1925.
These Regulations are a decided advanoe on the
legislation hitherto obtaining . A record of trans-
actions is required, and a striot control over imports
and exports is provided for, as well as a system of
inspection

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
inspeotion. The Regulations also include Indian Hemp
(hashish) among the dangerous drugs. The Regulations,
however, do not call for an accounting of sales of less
than five grams. This provision, or omission, appears to
leave open sufficient supply for individual addicts. The
Japanese authorities believe, however, that there are no
Japanese addicts.
I have been informed that these Regulations go as
far as publio opinion permits. The fact is, I think, that
Japanese administration lags considerably behind the enter-
prise of Japanese manufacturers and dealers.
Respectfully yours,
Eduim P. hivilly,
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
Enclosure:
Copy in translation of
Ordinance No. 17 relating to
Control of Narcotic Drugs.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No./
Deapatch No. 23
From American Embassy
Tokyo.
( Provisional translation).
(Received from Foreign Office)
Department for Home Affairs Ordinance No. 17
issued on May 19, 1930.
Regulations for the control of Narcotic
Drugs.
Art. I. By the term narcotic drugs in the present
Ordinance are understood any of the substances specified in
the following items:
1. Morphine, diacetyl-morphine and cocaine ( regardless
of the degree of specific rotation ) and salts
thereof.
2.
Crude morphine, coca leaves and crude cocaine.
3. Ecgonine ( regardless of the degree of specific
rotation) and derivatives and salts thereof.
4.
Morphine derivatives and salts ( except codeine.
dihydro-codeine and salts thereof).
5. Substances, in which more than two-thcusandths of
morhpine or morphine derivatives(except codeine and
dihydro-codeine), more than one-thousandth of cocaine,
eogonine or cogonine derivatives or diacetyl-morphine,
is deteoted.
6. Indian hemp, resin thereof and substances containing it.
7.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
(2)
7. Substanoes designated by the Minister of Home Affairs.
Art. II. A person proposing to manufacture narcotic drugs
(except coca leaves) specified in items No. 1,2 and 3 of the
preceding article or narcotic drugs designated by the Minister
of Home Affairs as those for manufacturing which permission
shall be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the
present Ordinance, shall apply for permission to the inister
of Home Affairs through the local Governor of the place in
which he has his factory( in Tokyo Prefecture, in this and
the following cases, the Inspector-General of the Metro-
politan Police) by presenting a statement giving the matters
specified in the following items, nd in regard to the
matter specified in item No. 3, attaching thereto a plan
of it:
1. Locality of the factory.
2. Names of the drugs.
3. Position, structure and equipment of the building to
be used as factory or storehouse.
When it is desired to change any of the matters specified
in the above items after the permission mentioned in the
preceding clause has been obtained, further permission shall
be obtained for the said matter.
Art. III. A person who has obtained the permission
mentioned in Clause I of the preceding article shall annually
obtain permission of the Minister of Home Affairs through the
local Governor with regard to the quantity he proposes to
manufaoture, the description and quantity of the material
he will use and the method of obtaining it.
Art. IV. A person proposing to manufacture any of the
narootio drugs specified in items from No. 4 to No. 7 of
Art. 1, exoept those designated hy the Minister of Home
Affairs

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
(3)
Affairs as those for manufacturing which permission shall
be obtained, shall present to the Linister of Home Affairs
through the local governor of the district in which he has
his factory a report giving the matters specified in the
following items:-
1. Locality of the factory.
2.
Name of the drug.
3.
Estimated amount of the substance to be
manufactured during the year.
Description and quantity of the material to be
used and the method of obtaining it.
When it is desired to change any of the matters specified
on the above items after the report mentioned in the preceding
clause has been presented, a further report shall be presented
on the said matter.
Art. V. A person who has manufactured narcotic drugs
shall annually present a report to the Minister of Home Affairs
through the looal governor of the district, in which he has his
factory, giving the names and quantities of the drugs he has
manufactured before the end of December of that year, the
descriptions, quantities and places of origin of the materials
he has used, the report to be presented before the end of
January of the following year.
The provision of the preceding clause is applied to the
manufacturer of non-narcotio substances, which have been
manufactured using narcotic drugs as material.
Art. VI. A person desiring to cultivate coca shrubs for
the purpose of colleoting coca leaves shall obtain permission
of the Minister of Home Affairs through the local governor of
the district in which he has his plantation, by presenting a
statement giving the matters specified in the
following

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
the following items:-
1. Locality and area of the plantation.
2. Term of planting.
3. Estimated quantity of coca leaves to be annually
collected.
4. Locality of the building to be used for preparation
and storage.
When it is desired to change any of the matter specified
in the items of the preceding clause after the permission
mentioned in the preceding clause has been obtained, further
permission shall be obtained for the said matter.
A person who has obtained the permission mentioned in
Clause I shall present a report to the ifinister of Home
Affairs through the local governor of the district in which
he has his plantation giving the locality and area of the
plantation within ten days after the expiry of the term of
planting.
Art. VII. A person planting coca shrubs shall annually
present a report to the Minister of Home Affairs through
the local governor of the distriot in which he has his
plantation, giving the quantity of the coca leaves he has
collected and the quantity and destination of the coca
leaves he has sent out before the end of December of the
year, the report to be presented before the end of January
of the following year.
Art. VIII. In t he event of a person engaged in the
manufacture of narcotic drugs or one cultivating coca shrub
giving up his business, he shall report it to the Minister
●
of

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
(5)
of Home Affairs through the local governor of the district
in which he has had his factory or plantation, the report
to be presented within ten days after he has given up his
business.
Art.IX. A person proposing to import from foreign
countries or Japanese colonies narcotic drugs shall obtain
permission from the Minister of Home Affairs through the
local governor of the district in which he has his head
business office by presenting a statement giving the matters
specified in each of the followins items:-
1. Names and quantities of the drugs.
2.
Object of importation from foreign countries or
Japanese colonies.
3.
Personal name or trade name of the Consignor(in the
case or a juridical person, its name) and the
locality of his business office.
4.
Term of importation from foreign countries or
Japanese colonies.
5.
Method of transportation.
Port of importation from foreign countries or
Japanese colcnies(in case goods are sent by post,
the name of the post office.)
When it is desired to change any of the items specified
in the items of the preceding clause after the permission
mentioned in the preceding clause has been obtained, further
permission shall be obtained for the said matter. on the
permission mentioned in Clause I being granted an import
authorization from foreign countries or Japanese colonies
and an import certificate from foreign countries or Japanese
colonies shall be handed over.
Art.X.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Art. X. A person proposing to export to foreign
countries or Japanese colonies narcotic drugs shall obtain
permi ssion from the Minister of Home Affairs through the local
governor of the district in which he has head business office
by presenting a statement giving the matters specified in each
of the following items, attaching thereto the import certi-
ficate from foreign countries or Japanese colonies or the
certificate approving the introduction of the consignment
into the honded warehouse, which has been issued by the
authorities of the country to which they ure destined:-
1. Names and quantities of the drugs.
2. Personal name( in the case of a juridical person, its
name) or trade-name of the consignee and the locality
of his business office.
3. Term of exportation to foreign countries or Japanese
colonies.
4. Method of transportation.
5. Port of export to foreign countries or Japanese
colonies(in case goods are sent by post, the name
of the post office.)
When it is desired to change any of the items specified in
the preceding clause after the permission mentioned in the
preceding clause has been obtained, further permission shall
be obtained for the said matter.
On the permission mentioned in clause I being granted, an
export authorization to foreign countries or Japanese colonies
and a copy of the first mentioned shall be handed over.
The copy of the export authorization to foreign countries
mentioned in the preceding clause shall accompany the consign-
men.
Art XI.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
Art. XI. The master of a vessel carrying on board
narcotic drugs sent from one foreign country to another is not
permitted to transport the narcotic drugs with the purpose
of passage through the Empire, .unless he presents to the
. head of the Customs House of the port on the occasion of the
vessel's entrance a copy of the export authorization or the
diversion certificate which accompanies the consignment.
The provision of the preceding clause is not a plied to
transportation made through post.
Art. XIII. A person desiring to land, reship or tranship
narcotic drugs, which are foreign goods, shall present to the
head of the Customs House concerned a copy of the export
authorization or the diversion certificate which accchpenies
the consignment.
When the la nding, reshipmot cr transhipment mentioned
in the preceding clause has bcen coa lotud, lo mitil report
it to the head cf the Customs Youse cuncerned and have the
copy of the document montioned in the preceding cluuse
returned to him.
Art. XIII. A person importing from or exporting to foreign
countries narcotic drugs shall show to the head of the Customs
House concerned the import or export authorization therefor.
Art. XIv. A person who has imported from foreign
countries or Japanese colonies or has exported to foreign
countries or Japanese colonies naritic drugs shall report
it to the Minister of Home Affairs through the local overnor
f
of the district in which he has his head business office,
attaching to the report, in the case of import from foreign
countries or Japanese colnnies the import authorization from
and a copy of
foreign countries or Japanese colonies the export au-
thorization or of the diversion certificate whioh accompanies
the consignment, and in the case of export to foreign
countries

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
countries or Japanese colonies the export authorization to
foreign countries or Japanese colonies, the report to be
presented within ten days.
Art.IV. When a person, who has been permitted to import
from foreign countries of Japanese colonies or export to
foreign countries or Japanese colonies narcotic drugs, does
not carry it out, he shall return to the Ifinister of Home
Affairs'through the local govarnor of the district in which
he has his head business office the import authorization from
foreign countries or Japanese colonies, and the i iport
certificate from foreign countries or Japanese colonies or
the export authorization to foreign countries or Japanese
colonies, and the copy of the export authorization to foreign
countries, within ten days after the expiry of the term of
the authorization.
Art. XVI. A person selling narcotic drugs specified in
Items No. 1, No. 3 or No. 4 in Art.I or selling them in small
portions shall statre on their vessels or envelopes his personal
name(in the case of a juridical person, its name) pr trade
name, the locality of his business office, the date of the
sale or partition and number them. This rule, however, is
not applied to a vessel or an envelope containing not
exceeding 5 grams.
Art.XVII. When a dealer in drugs transfers arcotic
drugs to another dealer in drugs, a physician, a dentist
or a veterinary surgeon, he shall obtain from the other
party a document certified by the Chief of the Police Station
that he is a dealer in drugs, a physician, a dentist or a
veterinary surgeon. When, however, he transfers narootio
drugs to another dealer in drugs, a physician, a dentist
or a veterinary surgeon, with whom he is acquainted, this
rule is not applied.
The

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
The document mentioned in the preceding clause shall be
preserved for the following five years.
Art. XVIII. A dealer in drugs shall keep a book in vhich
shall be entered the names and quantities of narcotic drugs
. he has received or sent out, the date thereof, the personal
name( in the case of a juridical person, its name) or trade
name, the vocation and the address of the person from whom
he has received the narcotic drugs or one to whom he has sent
them out of the locality of his business office, and in the case
of narcotic drugs mentioned in Art. XVI. the matters stated
on their vessels or envelops and their number, and preserve
such book for ten years from such date. This rule, however,
is not applied to narootic drugs, which are transferred
according to prescriptions issued by physicians, dentists
or veterinary surgeons, and to narcotic drugs seperately
designated by the Minister of Home Affairs.
Art. XIx. The local governor may cause a sanitary
official or a police of icer to e xanine the paper mentioned
in Art. XvII or the book mentioned in the preceding article or
to inspect the place in which narcotic drugs are manufactured,
collected, prepared, stored or sold, or the plantation on which
coca shrubs are cultivated.
Art. xx. In the event of a person, who has obtained
the pemission mentioned in Art. II, Art.III, Art.VI, Art.IX
or Art. X, or a pe rson manufacturing narcotic drugs mentioned
in Art. IV or a person manufacturing non-narcotic substances
with narootic drugs as material, infringing the provisions of
the present Ordinance or has committed an offense concerning
narootio drugs or opium or other illegitimate deeds, he may
have the permission in his possession cancelled or be pro-
hibited from continuing manufacturing.
Art.xxI. A person who infringes the provision of Cluase I
of

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
-30
t. II, Art. III, Clause I of Art. VI, Clause I of Art. IX
Clause I of Art. X. shall be liable to penal servitude for a term
not exoeeding three months.
A person who, intending to import from foreign countries or
Japanese colonies or export to foreign countries or Japanese colonies
narootic drugs in violation of the provision of Clause I of Art. IX
or Clause I of Art. X, has made preparations for such deeds, shall
be liable to the same punishment as mentioned in the preceding clause.
Art. XxII. A person who infringes the provision of Clause 2 of
Art. II, Art. IV, Clause 2 of Art. VI, clause 2 of Art. IX, clause 2
of Art. X, Art. XI, or Art. XVI, XVII, and XVIII shall be liable to
penal servitude for a term not exceeding three months or a fine not
exceeding 1o0 Yen.
Art. XxIII. A person who infringes the provision of Art. V,
Clause 3 of Art. VI, Art. VII, Art. VIII, Clause 4 of Art. Xand of
Articles from Art. XII to XV, or one vho refuses the examination or
inspection under the provision of Art. XIX shall be liable to a fine
or a minor fine not exceeding loo Yen or police detention.
Art. xxiv. If a dealer in drugs or a cultivator or coca shrubs
is a minor or a person adjudged incompetent has infringed the present
Ordinance, the penal provisions applicable to him shall apply to his
legal representative. This rule, however, is not applied to a minor
who is as competent as a major in regard to his business.
Art. xxv. A person engaged in the manufacture, collection, pre-
pemation, storage, sale, import from foreign countries or Japane se
colonies, transportation, landing, reshipment or transshipment or
narcotic drugs or the cultivation of coca shrubs shall not, in the
event of his agent, the head of his house, a member of his family,
an inmate of his house, his employee or any other person engaged in
his business infringing the provisions of the present Ordim ce in
regard to the said business, escape punishment on the ground
that the infringement did not take
place

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
place by his direction.
Art. XxVI. In the event of the representative or an em-
ployee of a juridical person or any other person engaged in
its business infringing the provisions of the present ordinance
in regard to the said business, the penal provisions of the
present Ordinance shall be applied to the representative.
Sup lementary Provisions.
"Concerning the Control of Morphine, Cocaine and Salts
Thereof" and "Concerning the Control of Cultivation of Coca
Plant" shall be rescinded.
A person who is actually engaged in the manufacture of
narootic drugs at the time the present Ordinance is pronulgated
shall take the procedure provided for in Art. II or Art. IV
within 30 days after the date on which the present Ordinance
comes into effect.
With regard to the export to foreign countries or Japanese
colonies or the import from foreign ccuntries or Japanese
colonies of narootic drugs,7permission for so doing has been
granted prior to the enforcement of the present Ordinance in
accordance with the provisions of "Concerning the Control
of Morphine, Cociane and Salts Thereof", the provisions hitherto
in force shall be complied with.
The cultivation of coca shrubs permitted in accordance
with the provisions of "Concerning the Control of Cultivation
of Coca Shrubs" prior to the enforcement of the present Ordinance
shall be considered as having been permitted in accordance with
the present Ordinance.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
FE 894.114 Narcotics/11
17
1930。
Stmeer
894
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and
tranemits herewith, for his information, a copy of
2
despatch No. 235, dated August 20, 1930, from the
American Embassy at Tokyo, Japan, with its enclosure,
a copy of a translation of Department of Home Affairs
Ordinance No. 17, of May 19. 1930. entitled "Regulations
for the Control of Narcotio Drugs."
Enclosure:
Copy of despatch No. 235, dated
August 20, 1930, from Tokyo, with
copy of enclosure.
P:
9/17/30

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
Division of
1B
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ERICAN CONSULATE
JAN 5 1031
DEC 1 9 1930
Department of State
GENEWI, SWIZENLAND
SOCIETE DES NATIONS.
Index Bureau
0.0.1313.
Genève, 1e 15 déoembre 1930.
JAN 6 1931
COMMISSION CONSULTATIVE DU TRAFIC DE L'OPIUM ET AUTRES
Dept. of State
N
DROGUES NUISIBLES.
Tableau indiquant le pays d'origine des drogues trouvées dens le
8
INDEX BUREAU
trafic 11l1cite au Jepon en 1928
6
4
Communiçué par le Gouvernement japonais.
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC IN OPIUM AND OTHER DANGEROUS DRUGS
RCOTI
Table showing the country of origin of the Drugs found
in illicit trafrio in Jepan during 1928
C
Communioeted by the Japanese Government.
S
Douane
Drogues Quantités
Marques Expédiées de Envoyées par Date de la
saisi
Customs
Drugs
Quantities
Marks
Shipped from
Sent by
(Kgs)
Date of seizure
Yokohama morphine
20.054
none
Rottardam
Zimmerlein
Avril 26
3
7
20.064
97
17
Mai
12
Kobe
Benzoyl-
1.750
none
Deiren
Nozoe
Sept. 17
morphine
19
3.090
23
Dairen
Fujita
Nov. 27
"
Heroin
30.000
Gallix
Peris
Deo.
2
Dubois,
Muller 8
Osak
morphine
Benzoy1-
175 ozs
none
Dairen
none
Jul.. 16
Moji
Ecgonine
methyl-
ester
48.965
99
Dairen
Watanabe
Oot.20
Nagasaki opium
215 mome
77
Shanghai
none
Sept. 27

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
BUREAU DU JAPON
à la
SOCIETE DES NATIONS.
November 27th, 1930.
PARIS
9, rue Théophile Gautier
A.2867/2.
Drogues saisies par les autorités douanières pendant 1:année 1928.
Drugs seized by the Customs authorities during the year 1928 :
Quanti tés
Origine des drogues
Quantities
Origin of the drugs.
1. Japon proprement dit :
Japan Proper:
Kgs.
Pantopon
0.010.
Moscou Moscow
Morphine hydrochloride
0.090.
n
Diacethyl morphine
0.020.
n
n
Benzoylmorphine hydro-
chloride
100.000.
Allemagne-Germany
91
200.000.
Suisse-Switzerland
97
300.000.
9n
n
11
240.000.
Expédiée de Dairen
3.094.
Sent from Dairen
5.000.
91
Cocaine hydroohloride
0.100.
2. CHOSEN
Morphine hydrochloride et ses sels 22.o00.
Chine et autres pays.
11
17
and its
China and other
salts
countries.
19
n
4.000.
Japon proprement dit.
Japan Proper.
Cooaine hydrochloride et ses sels
9"
n
and its salts
2.000.
Chine et autres pays
Ohina and other
countries.
17
1.000.
Japon proprement d1t.
Japan Proper.
3. Territoire à bail de Kouantoung
Kwantung Leased Territory:
Diaoetyl morphine
2.000.
Allemagne Germany.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.94)
4E
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 26, 1931.
No. 122.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB 10 1931
Fill mt
2 Copipe n FE
N
Copy sent to
894.114 NARCOTICS/59
Fel.12,1931
FEB T031
RECD
Sir:
I have the honor to enolose herewith, as of
1/. possible interest to the Department, a olipping
from the OSAKA MAINICHI concerning an investiga-
tion in the Yokohama Distriot. Court of the smuggling
FEB13 1931
of narcotics.
FILED
Respectfully yours,
Mlamein Fobes
Enclosure:
1. Clipping from
W. Cameron Forbes.
OSAKA MAINICHI.
X

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.
Despatoh No. 122
The Oseka Nalmtchl
From American Embassy
Osake, Wednesdmy, Janaary 21, 1981.
Tokyo.
Coded Cables Seized
Reveal Big Dope Ring
Extensive Dope Traffic With
London as Headquarters
Claimed by Police
YOKOHAMA, Jan 20.—More than
100 coded cablegrams were seized
yesterday by Procurator Ito of the
Yokohama District Court from a
wholesale druggist of Edobashi,
Osaka, enabling the authorities to
bare the illicit drug traffic by inter-
national "dope peddlers" and their
methods of sinuggling narcotics by
air routes.
The drug traffickers with their
headquarters in London, by offer-
ing fabulous prices to manufac-
turing druggists of France, Bel-
gium, and Turkey, would smug-
gle large quantities of morphine,
opium, cocaine and heroin aboard air-
ships' or 'airpfanes operating oh re-
gular airways.
After carrying drugs beyond the
boundaries of the respective countrics
of origin, they would load them on
steamers plying between London and
Yokohama. At the latter port, the
smugglers' agents through some frau-
dulent method, would deceive customs
inspectors into certifyiig entries.
Since 1927
The drugs that passed the customs
inspection at Yokohama were all car-
ried via air route to Dairen, Shang-
hai, and Hongkong. Even conserva-
tively estimated, the drugs smuggled
in this fashiop since 1927, exceeded
in. value ¥80,00,000. What was
smuggled prior to that is hard to
estimate, it is declared.
For passing the customs inspectors
at Yokohama, the smugglers devised
a chemical camouflage by which. the
narcotics were said to have function-
ed as though they were something
else:
Besides, the "camouflaged narco-
tics" were packed side by side with
chemivals,, making it doubly diffcult
to tcll them from the legitimate ar-
ticles. One consignment is said to
have weighed from: 1,000 -to 2,500
pounds.
Traced by Scotland Yard
It was the bankruptcy of two large
druggists in London, each capitaliz-
ed at more than £1,000,000 and each
backed by. influential British politi-
cians, which: enabled Scotland Yard
to trace the illicit traffic by the in-
ternational drug ring and to round
up four leaders last fall. Action here
was taken at the request of Scotland
Yard made: through the British Em-
bacsy.
The illicit. traffic. on the Far East-
ern end was said to have been look-
ed after by a German, who when he
sensed that the authorities were after
him, disappeared.
This discovery is xpected, to en-
liven the forthcoming international
narcotic conference at Geneva. Be-
catuse air routes have been resorted
to in the illicit traffic, customs in-
spection nt airports from- now on is
expected to becom- much stricter.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.93)
13 1931.
In reply refer to
FE 894.114 Narcotics/59
N
894.114 NARC0TICS/60
Attentiom: Bureou of Narootics
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honerable the Seoretary of the Treasury and trans-
mits herewith, for the information of the Commissioner of
Narootics, a oopy of despatch No. 122, dated January 26.
193l. from the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo, enclosing a
olipping from THE OSAKA MAINICHI of January 21. 1931,
entitled "Coded Oables Seized Reveal Big Dope Ring".
Enolosure:
Copy of despatch No. 122.
dated Jamuary 26, 1931, from
Tokye, with enelosure.
nem
F3: DF
FE
2/12/31
Feb
CB
13.1981。

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
eply refor to
Diplomatic Serial No. 1097
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
June 10, 1931.
LAWS AND REGULATIONS REGARDING THE
CONTROL OF THE TRAFFIC IN NARCOTIC DRUGS.
To
American Diplomatic Officers
and Certain American Consular Officers.
Sirs:
Supplementing tho Department's telegraphic circular
instruction of August 28, 1929, to diplomatic officers,
there are enolosed herewith, in duplicate, questionnaires
in which have been listed the narcotics laws and regula-
tions received by the Department as now in force in the
894.114 NARCOTICS/6
country to which you are accredited, a summary of their
provisions, and questions indicating the nature of the
additional information which the Department desires to
obtain. A blank set of the questionnaire forms is also
enclosed.
Similar questionnaires are being sent, with this
circular instruction, to the consular officers in colonies,
possessions and mandated territories shown in the annexed
list. Questionnaire forms for possessions, colonies,
dependencies and mandated territories in which no consular
officers are stationed are being sent to the appropriate
diplomatic missions.
The information referred to is required in official
form for the use of the Commissioner of Narcotics to
guide his aotion in the enforcement of the laws of the
United States governing the export and import of narcotic
drugs, under treaties to which this Government is a party.
It wiil also be valuable to the United States Government
in connection with international aspects of control of
the traffic in narcotic drugs. It is expected that,
eventually, all of a non-confidential nature will be
compiled in one printed document suitable for reference
purposes, and that copies of such document will be trans-
mitted to the Governments signatory to The Hague Convention
and to any other interested Governments.
In order that the data may be exact and complete,
and may include everything available to assist in a
complete understanding of the method of governmental
control of the narcotio drug traffic in all of the terri-
tories,

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
tories, including possessions, dependencies, protectorates
and mandated areas assigned to you for report by the
present instruction, you are instructed to bring the
onclosed questionnaires to the attontion of the Govern
ment to which you are accredited, with the request that
the competent authority be so good as to rectify any
orrors in the entries thereon and to add any pertinent
information.
In the questionnaires covering dominions, colonics,
possossions, dependencies and mandated territories, the
laws and regulations have not been summarized, owing to
the incompleteness of the Department's information. No
effort has been made to list all such areas, but, in each
case where the Department's files contain laws and regula-
tions understood to be in forcc in any of thosc areas,
lists of such laws and regulations have becn embodicd in
the appropriate questionnaires.
Diplomatic missions are instructed to make an effort
to obtain from the Governments to which they are accredited
complete lists of the laws and regulations of all of their
dominions, colonies, possessions, dependencies and mandated
territories, excepting those assigned to other officers
under this instruction, together with copies of laws and
regulations which the Department has not received. It will
be appreciated if the Government will also undertake to
summarize such laws and regulations on the questionnaires
separately for each area.
Diplomatic missions should also transmit a list of
all dominions, colonies, possessions, dependencies, por-
teotorates and mandated territories of the Governments
to which they are accredited, concerning whose laws and
regulations they have been unable to obtain the desired
information.
It should be borne in mind that, in addition to the
information contained in or submitted in response to the
questionnaires, the Department desires to receive for its
files four copies (with English text or translation if
possible) of any laws or regulations on the subject which
are now in effect but have not hitherto been transmitted,
or which may be issued hereafter.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
W. R. CASTLE, Jr.
Enclosures:
Questionnaires (In duplicate)
Index under:
Narcotic drugs;
Enclosing questionnaires with respect to
laws and regulations regarding the control
of the traffic in,
Embassy, Legation or Consulate File No. 8ll.4

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
Consular offices to which
Material to be obtained
circular instruction will be mailed:
with respect to:
Gibraltar
Gibraltar
Malta
Malta
Calcutta
(For India including the
Border and Native states,
and also Burma and the
Andaman and Nicobar
Islands, but excluding
French and Portuguese
India.)
Aden
Settlement and Protec-
torate of Aden.
Colombo
Ceylon
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Singapore
(For the Straits Settle-
ments, Federated Malay
States, Non-Federated
Malay States, Sarawak,
British North Borneo, and
Brunei.)
Lagos
Nigeria, Gold Coast, and
Sierra Leone.
Nairobi
Kenya Colony, Tanganyika
Territory, Uganda, and
Nyasaland Protectorate.
Sydney
All of Australia; also
Papua and the New Guinea
Mandated Territory.
Wellington
All New Zealand and also
the Samoan Mandated
Territory and the Pacific
Islands under New Zealan
Dominion such as the Cook
Islands.
Suva
Fiji
St. Johns, N.F.
Newfoundland
(Also the Windward Isles
Bar bados
including Dominica and
St. Lucia, but not
Grenada.)
Belize
British Honduras

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Georgetown
British Guiana
Hamilton
Bermuda
Kingston
Jamaica
Nassau
Bahama Islands
Trinidad
Trinidad and also Grenada
Algiers
Algeria
Dakar
French Senagal
Martinique
French West Indies
Saigon
Indo China, also Kwang
Chow-Wan.
Tahiti
Society Islands
Tananarive
Madagascar and the Island
of Reunion
Tunis
Tunisia
Beirut
Syria
Jerusalem
Palestine and Trans-
jordania
Dairen
Leased Territory of
Kwantung
Seoul
All of Chosen (Korea)
Taihoku
Formosa and the
Pescadores Islands
Batavia
Netherland East Indies
Curaçao
Curacão
Lourengo Marques
Mozambique
Nice
Monaco
Florence
San Marino
Barcelona
Andorra
Danzig
Free City of Danzig

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
JAPAM.
QUESTIONNAIRE
LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FEASURES FOR THE CONTROL OF THE
TRAFFIC IN NAROOTIC DRUGS
I. GENERAL.
Laws and Regulations.
1. What laws, regulations, etc., are in force?
(a) Regulations for the Sale and Treatment of
Medisines, Law No. 10 or l889, as revised by
Laws No. 6 of 1892, No. 6 of 1899, No. 35 of
1907 and No. 24 of 1910.
(b) The Opium Law, Law No. 27 of 1897, as rovised
by Laws No. 26 of 1917 and No. 43 of 1919.
Law, Ordinance No. 4, of l897, as revised by
Ordinance No. 4 or 1919.
(a)
Order No. 6, dated August 14, 1917, of the
Department of Home Affairs, relative to the
Government sale of opium to be used for
medicinal purposes.
(continued on page la)
B.
Substances Controlled.
1. What narcotic drugs are controlled by these
laws and regulations?
All the drugs specified in the Hague and Geneva
Conventions, and all derivatives and preparations
of these drugs which may have the same harmful
effect and are designated by the Minister for
Home Affairs.
Note: What are the drugs covered by the laws
which are not included in the Conventionst
0. Administretion.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
A 1 continued ....
(e) Notifications No. 89 of the Department of
Home Affairs, dated June 28, 1926, defining
medicines recognized by Ordinance No. 41 as
having the same strength as those artieles
mentioned in the first and second clauses
of the same artiole.
(f) Ordinance No. 5 of the Department of
Communieations, dated March 17, 1930,
relative to the control of transportation
of opium by ships.
(g) Ordinance No. 17. dated May 19, 1930,
(Regulations for Control of Nareotic Drugs).
The Government has a complete monopoly of the trade,
both internal and external, in raw and medicinal
opium. Connected with the monopoly is the Imperial
Hygienie Laboratory of Tokyo with a branch at
Osaka, and into these laboratories for storage or
for manufacture of medicinal opium goes all the
opium imported and all that is purchased from the
poppy farmers of Japan. These farmers are licensed
by the Prefectural Governors and must deliver to
them all the opium produoed. The governors in
turn ferward the opium to the laboratories. The
monopoly is financed by means of an ordinary bud-
get of the Gcternment, but the expenses of the ad-
ministration of the law regulating the commeree
in the derivatives of opium, and in coca leaves
and coeaine, are inoluded in the appropriation
for the control of dangerous and poisonous
medicines.
The Minister for Home Affairs, in whose department
is lodged control of the monopoly and of the commer-
cial trade in opium and coca leaves and their
derivatives, has authorised only four concerns to
purahase opium from the Government monopoly. As
no person or firm may procure raw opium from any
other souroe, only the firms specially appointed
can get raw material from which to manufacture mor-
phine. An annual appropriation is necessary to
provide funds for the purahase of opium by the
monopely and so a limitation 1s effected on the
amount of morphine that may be manufactured in Japan.
The medicinal opium manufactured by the monopoly is sent through
the Provineial Governers te specially appointed and qualified
agents whe supply the wholesalers, retailers and physicians.
If the purehaser, even though lieensed to handle habit-ferming
drugs, wishes to purchase more than fifty grams, he must obtain
a permit from his Prefestural Governor; if less than firty
grams, from the local police authorities. Medicinal opiwm may
net be transferred from ene prefecture to anether.
2a

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
Administration-
1. What departments of the Government are charged
with the administration of the narootic laws?
There are appreximately fifty prefectures in
Japen, às the head ef each ls a Geverner ag
peinted by she Mational Government and his
pesisiem is like that of sivil servant in Great
Dritain. Me takes erders from the Gentral Gevern-
ment end is respensible to is. Appointed also by
the Central deverrment, are the heads of the
Profeetural Bureams sush as the Health and the
Poliee Bureaus.
The Gontrel of the monopoly and of the trade in
department, what provision is made for co-
ordination?
D. Right to Deal in Narcotice.
1. Manufacturers -- Is the right to manufacture
narcotic drugs restricted to persons or firms
engaged in the manufacture of general pharma-
oeutical products, to members of certain pro-
fessions, such as pharmacists and druggists,
or to any other commeroial or professional
groups?
Xamsfaeturers of general pharmacoutieal predmets
and pharmasists, are, ir licensed, entitled te
mammfesture nareetie drags. A pharmacist, hew.
ever, mast have a speciel lieense fer each deri-
in setual prestise the pharmesist's trade is
restristed to the filling of preseriptions and
the making of patent medieines.
a. What
2

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
c i contimued ....
opium, soca leaves and their derivatives, is
ledged in the Department of Home Affairs;
familiarly called "The Central Authority".
In order to facilitate cooperation, an Inter-
ministerial Council has been created consisting
of the.Foreign Minister and the heads of the
appropriate Bureaus such as Health, Poliee, Cus-
toms, ese.
There are specially appointed "inspeetors" in the
prefeetures. They enlist the services of the
losal pelise to assist them in the actual werk
of inspection. Since there are about sighty
thousand persons or firas authorised to handle
or te preseribe drugs, it is impossible for the
Government Inspeetors to do this work unaided.
These instrumentalities, together with the
harber er "Water Pälice", whe are an official
part of the customs administration, make up
Japan's machinery for contrel. At the same
time the railway administration, postal service,
together with the merehant marine department,
alse ssoperate with those authorities of the
prineipal ddpartments.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
a. What companies extract alkaloids
of opium and coca leaves?
b. How many companies, not extractors of
alkaloids, manufacture pharmaceutical
products containing narcotic druge?
2.
Wholesale Dealers -- Is the right to trade
in narcotic drugs on a wholesale basis re-
strioted to any particular commercial or
professional group?
The dealers licensed for handling general pharma-
seutieal produets are permitted to trade in nar-
sotie dsage subjest to the regulatiens provided
fer by law relating to handling of medieines.
This elass ef lieensee mast sell the drugs in
the containers as they are reseived frem the
the labels intact.
a. Total number of wholesalers?
The mumber ef sush licensed deslers reaches
(sentinued on page Sa)
3. Retail Dealere -- Is anyone other than a
druggist or pharmacist authorized to retail
narcotic drugs? If so, who?
The retail trade in mareeties is restrieted so
pharmesists or chemists.
a. Is
3

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.90)
D..•
but in sctual practice only comparatively
few dealers are engaged in wholesale trade.
Note: What is the approximate mmber of
sush dealers who astually partici-
pate in the narcotie drugs trade?

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.96)
a. Is any limit imposed on the quantities
of drugs that may be purchased by re-
tailers?
O.
b. Total number of reteilers?
There are approximately ten thousand
pharmacists.
4. Importers and Exporters -- Is the right to
import and export narcotic drugs restricted
to any commercial or professional groups?
The import and export trade is restricted to
the prefessienal groups desoribed above, in-
sluding the pharmacists.
a. Totel number of importers?
b. Total number of exporters?
5. Brokers -- Is there any legislation restrict-
ing the right of any person within the country
to negotiate purohases and sales between per-
sons or firms in forein countries?
E. Licenses.
4

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
E. Licenees.
1. Are special narcotics licenses required for
dealing in narcotic drugs?
Spesial lieenses mast be ebtained by any person
or firm whe wiskes to manafasture ar to deal en
a whelesale besis in narestie drags., This pre-
visien also extende to pharmacists whe wish to
wes nareotie druge for the mamafactume of sem-
pewnds, derivatives, ete.
2. What department of the Government is authorized
to issue and revoke licenses?
The Prefeetural Governora are responsible for
issuing, maspending and revoking the licenses to
menfactare nareotio druge or to deal in nar-
cetiss. The Home Minister revokes or suspends
the lioenses of qualified pharmacists.
3. If local authorities issue licenses, can any
central authority compel their revocation?
4. What requirements must be satisfied by the
applicant before licenses may be issued?
The lieense is issued en application after pre-
seribed state exsmination.
5

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
5. What investigation is made concerning such
matters as reliability, needs and premises
of the applicants?
A sheakoup on the statements of applieants for
licenses concerning their premises, reliability.
needs, ete., is made by the inspectors under the
authority of the Prefectural Governors.
6. Under what circumstances may the administra-
tive suthority revoke licenses?
Licenses may be revoked on convietion for vio-
lation of the laws or regulations, or on the
ground of refusing the ofrieial order.
Note: To what "official order" does the last
phrase refer?
a. May licenses be revoked by any
other authority and if so under
what ciroumstances?
7. What
8

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
7. What method is employed to keep manufacturers
and wholeselers informed of the names of the
licensed dealers to whom sales may be made?
a. Is the vendor bound to ascertain
whether the vendee is licensed?
Universal
F. Post.
Postal Union?
Yes.
2. Under what circumstances may drugs be sent
through the post?
Drags may be imported or experted by pestal
parcela if properly deolared and if cevered
by an import or expert sertirieate.
G. Taxation.
7

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
G. Taxationt
1. Is there aty system of taxation of the im-
portation and exportation (exclusive of
customs duties), the manufacture or sale
of narcotic drugs!
2. What is the annual revenue derived from
such tax?
3. In what way, if any, is the use of such
revenue restricted?
II.
8

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
II.
IMPORT AND EXPORT.
Certificate Syetem.
1. What import and export certificate system
has been adopted? (i.e. Is the system pre-
scribed by Chapter 5 of the Geneva Conven-
tion used in full; if not, what are the
principal features of the system in use?)
Japan has put in force the import and export
certifieate system which has been adopted by a
large number of countries on the recommendation
of the League of Nations Opium Advisory Committee,
and no consigment of any of the substanees cov-
ered by the Hague Convention or any of their
derivatives may be imported or exported without
a eertificate. Raw and medicinal opium may be
imported or exported only by the Government
monopoly. The poliey of the monopoly is to
restrict the export of medicinal opium to
Japanese doctors, dentists and pharmacists in
foreign countries who can produce certified
import permits issued by the Japanese Consul of
the district in which the importer lives. Al-
theugh raw opium is net permitted to be imported
by cemmercial companies, licensed mamufacturers
and wholesalers may import morphine, cocsine,
eto. Although pharmacists with mamifacturers'
lieenses may import nareotic drugs, they very
rarely take advantage of their privilege. The
Law does not forbid the importation of cocaine
but it is the present poliey of the govermment
to refuse all applications for import certificates
for this partieular drug so that the internal
factories are the only legitimate sourees of
supply.
2
9

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.96)
2. What authority is charged with the duty of
issuing import and export certificates?
The Direeter of the Central Baream of Publie
Sealth, which is appeiated by the Minister of
Home Affairs.
B.
Imports.
1. Under what ciroumstances will an import certi-
ficate be issued?
2. How many copies of the import certificate
are issued and what disposition is made
of them?
Pour, When the sertifieate is issued, a duplicate copy is
Custems suthorities, while the third cepy is retained at
the Meme Offiee. The validity of the sertifisate is
Offiee. By this methed the Fereign Offise may advise eur
senenlar autherities te give any Information en the impert
of the nareoties erdered by the dealer while the sustems
watherities may verify the drugs on their arrival. These
deable cheeks will go very far in preventing any frankulent
transestions en she certirieate issued by our authorities.
3. What limits, if any, are imposed on the
amounts
10

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
amounts that may be importedt
leaves and ef erade cocaine imported in order te refase the output ef the
seeaine te the level of the sountryts conampptiom plws the mmount of legle
be effected?
There is ne restrietion on the mmber ef eustems
efriees through which imports may be effested, bus
prestieally all are cleared through Yekohama, Kebe,
Osaka and Mj.
5. What officials or departments of the Gov-
ernment, local or national, are notified
that an import certificate has been is-
sued, and by what means is such notifica-
tion effected?
The custons and Foreign Ofrice are notified by
means of the transmission to them of copies of
the import certirisate.
6. How long are import certificates valid?
7. In case export certificates accompany
imported consignments, are such certifi-
cates returned to the countries of origin
and, if so, by whom and with what en-
dorsement?
11

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.95)
dorsement?
8. Do the customs keep separate records of the
imports of narcotic drugs?
Yos.
9. Do the customs notify the authority which is-
sued the import certificate of the arrival of
the consignment and the exact amount entered
and, if so, how soon after entry?
no.
10. Are records of imports kept by the authority
which issued the certificates?
11. Are the internal customs or any other
authorities at the place where the con-
signment is to be cleared and released
notified
12

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
notified of its arrival at the external
customshouse?
amd af the yearg the smount imperted, to the Ministry of Health. If he
àn made and the faste disoevered are reperted at once to the central
mmtherities.
12. May narcotics be imported under suoh general
descriptions as "Pharmaceutical Products", and,
if not, what description is required?
In all cases of import, mcoompanying papors and
the outside containers of narcoties must be
labeled to show the exaot nature of the shipment.
13. May narcotics be imported on bills-of-lading
made out "to order"?
14. May narcotics be imported in cases contain-
ing other pharmaceutical products?
C. Exports.
1. Under what circumstances are export certifi-
cates issued?
Japamese regulations eenserning experts of
nereetie drage are more of theeretisal shan ef
In these predusts amounts to almest nething.
13

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
2. What policy does the issuing authority
pursue regarding applicetions for permis-
sion to export to:
a. Countries which are parties to
a narcotic drugs convention but
which have not adopted the import
certificate system?
b. Countries which are not parties
to a narcotic drugs convention
and which have not adopted the
import and export certificate
syetem?
3. Through what customs offices mey exports
be effected?
ments are esperted throuch the sustome heusss
as Tokakama, Kobe, Ooaka mnd Meji.
14

=== Page 55 === (confidence 1.00)
4. What officials or departments of the
Government, local or national, are notified
that an export certificate has been issued,
and by what means is such notification ef-
fected?
5. How many copies of the export certificate
are issued and what disposition is made
of them?
6. How long are export certificates valid?
15

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
7. Do the customs keep separate records of the
exports of narcotic drugs?
8. Do the customs notify the authority which
issued the export certificate, or any other
authority, when exported consignments are
cleared?
9. Are records of exoorts kept by the authority
which issues the certificates?
10. May narcotics be exported under such general
descriptions as "Pharmaceutical Products",
and, if not, what description is required?
Assempanying papers and outside containers must
be labeled to shew the exast nature of the
consignments.
11. May narcotics be exoorted on bills-of-lading
made out "to order"?
16

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
12. May narcotics be exported in cases contain-
ing other pharmaceutical products?
13. What investigation is made if the import-
ing country does not return the copy of the
export certificate within a reasonable time?
14. Are imports and exports reported either to
the Netherland Government or to the League
of Nations; and, if so, do the reports
specify the actual dates of departure from
or arrival in the country?
III. TRANSIT
12

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
III. TRANSIT AND DIVERSION.
A. Transit.
1. Under what circumstances may consignments
pass in transit through the country?
As far as the nareotie drags are conserned, the
regulations provide that landing and reshipment
are considered as import and expert. Therefers
they are treated exastly as if they are imperted
to er experted frem Japan. Consequently, ne
tramsit is possible without authorisation ef
the Gevernmens.
B. Diversion.
1. Are diversion certificates (such as those
provided for by the Geneva. Convention) is-
sued for consignments diverted from their
original destinations?
2. Are they issued by the same authority which
issues import .and export certificates, and
under what conditions?
IV. INTERNAL
18

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
IV. INTERNAL CONTROL.
A. Free Ports and Free Zones.
1. What free ports and free zones are there?
2. Are the laws of the country regulating the
traffic in narcotic drugs in force therein?
a. If not, what control is exercised
in such places?:
B. Bonded Warehouses.
1, Are there bonded warehouses in which nar-
cotics may be stored in the country?
There are bended wareheuses of the eustems in Japan
where the regulations are applied as though the druge
are imperted and experted if the drags pass in transis
Chieß mang them are Yekahame, Tokge, Kobe and
Osaka.
2. What supervision is exercised over narcotics
stored in such warehouses?
19

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
0. Storage.
1. What requirements are there regarding the
manner in which narcotics in the possession
of dealers or manufacturers must be stored?
D. Records, Prescriptions and Reports.
1. What records are dealers, other than re-
tailers, required to keep?
Memafasturers mmst record all imports. purehases,
mannreetures, sales and steaks on hand, with
relevant details. Wholesale dealers must keep
the same kind of resord as that required of
manufesturers. It is required that the purchaser
she is qualiried to buy nareetie drugs fer pre»
fessional purposes mast produse a written state-
mant giving the name, date, quantities of pur-
shases, ete. This written statement must be
retained by the seller for ten years.
2. What records are retail deelers required
to keep?
20

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.97)
3. May retail sales be made without prescrip-
tions?
Retail dealers may dispense drugs only on pre-
seriptiens. There is an exoeption to this in ease
of spesial needs for vosational purposes whieh may
be provided fer without prescriptions from physicians.
In these special instanoes, the purehaser must
present te the pharmacist à signed applieation which
the latter mst retain for ten years.
4. Must presoriptions be filed, and may they
be refilled?
Preseriptions mmst be filed and may net be refilled.
5. How frequently must reports be made of
manufacture, purchases, sales, and stocks
and in what detail?
Mammfesturers mast repert anmally te their re-
spestive prefestural gevermers the quantities ef
eack mareetie dras mamafactured. Impertere, within
tem daye after impertatien, mest netiry their pre-
festural poverners of all imperts effeeted.
21

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
6. If a separate report must be made, or if
permission must be obtained in advance,
for each transaction, what is the re-
quired procedure?
7. Are reports made to the department of the
Government responsible for issuing import
and export certificates?
Ne repert is made direct by lieensed dealers te the
Japanese Gevernment. All mamufaetures and imperts
are reperted to the prefeetural governere and by
them ammmally te the Minister for Home Affaire.
a. If not, to what department?
8.
22

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.97)
8. Are all returns of sellers checked againat
returns of buyers?
E. Inapeotion.
1. By what authorities are factories, wholesalers
and retailers inspected?
Pasteries, wholesalers and retailers are in-
spested by the inspeeters of the Minister for
Home Afrairs. The services of the losal police
are enlisted to assist in the actual work of
inspeetion.
2. If inspection is made by officials of the
local Government, are the results reported
to the central Government, and, if so, to
what department and in what detail?
3. How
23

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
3. How many narcotios inspeators are employed
by the central Government?
4. How frequently are inspeotions made of!
a. Factories?
Onse a yeare
b, Wholeealers?
Onse a year.
c. Retailerep
Onse & year.
5. If the inspectors are not all under one
department and if individual transactions
are not reported to a central office, by
what inspection system are books of
sellers checked against books of buyers?
F. Illioit Traffic.
1. If the custome discover an attempt to smuggle
arugs
24

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
drugs into or out of the country, do they
report immediately to the authority which
issues import and export certificates?
They repert immediately to their prefestaral
gevermers who in turn report to the Ministry
for Bome Asfairs.
a. If not, to whom do they report?
2. In cases of detection of illicit dealing
within the country, is the central authori-
ty immediately notified?
In sases of detestion of illieit dealing within
the ceuntry, reperts are made to the prefectural
governors as in the oase of axmuggling.
3. In cases of smuggling of drugs by post,
must the postal authorities immediately
communicate with the central authority?
4. Does the central authority participate in
the criminal proceedings in narcotics
cases?
25

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
5. What disposition is made of seized nar-
cotics?
G. Penalties.
1. What penalties are provided for breach of
the narcotic laws and regulations?
Offenders against the opium monopoly are pun-
ishable by fines and by imprisonment up to
twe years.
Offenders against the regulations relating
to merphine, cocaine, their salts, derivatives,
ete., are punishable by fines and imprisonment
up to three menths.
V. MISCELLANEOUS
26

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
V. MISCELLANEOUS
A. Other Legal or administrative Neasures
1. Are there any other important legal or
administrative measures controlling the
traffic in narcotic drugs?
2. With
27

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
2. With what countries, if any, is there an
arrangement for direct exchange between
enforcement officers of information concern-
ing the illicit traffic in narcotic drugs?
a. What officer is charged with
this functiont
28

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.97)
no.127
To the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo.
The Aoting Secretary of State refers to the enolosed
ciroular instruotion dated June 10, 1931, in regard to
laws governing the trade in narcotic drugs, and requests
that the Embassy ut Tokyo, in addition to reporting on the
law governing in Japan proper, also report separately on
that enforced in the South Sea Islands Mandate.
Enclosure:
Ciroular instruction
dated June 10, 1931.
C
2
FE:SJF:LM
FE
A true copy of
7/3/31
the signed or
inal.
JUL  1931.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 30, 1931.
No. 398.
February
Divian of
1932.
FAN EASTERN AFFAIRS
Cofpy
DEC 21 1931
Tredaj. Filr 2, 1932
file
Smk
0EC 19 30
N
Capstaken
894.114 NARCOTICS/63
9
口
894.114na
The Honorable
FEB 3 - 1932
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
62
I have the honor to refer to Instruction No.127 of
July 7, 1931, in which was enclosed a copy of a circular
instruction of June 10, last. The Embassy was requested
to obtain corrections or additions to a questionnaire
covering the laws and regulations governing the traffic
in narootio drugs in Japan and the South Sea Islands
Mandate.
In reply I have the honor to enclose a series of
1/.
answers prepared for the Embassy by the Japanese Government.
The Foreign Office stated orally that there were a number
of

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
of minor alterations to be made and that the Japanese
authorities preferred to rewrite the whole questionnaire,
rather than attempt to make small corrections in the text
as given.
I am further informed that the narcotics laws of Japan
are applied to the Mandated Islands.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador
Edaim I. hailk
Edwin L. Neville
Enclosu:
Counselor of Embassy.
Seriey of answers to
questionnaire.
Embassy's File No. 8ll.4
ELN/SR

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.
Despatch No.
398
From American Embaasy
To:yo.
Questionnaire.
Legal and Administrative Measures for the Control of
the Traffic in Narcotic Drugs ( Japan Proper) .
I. General
A.
Laws and Regulations.
1. What laws, regulations, etc., are in force?
(a) Regulations for the Sale and Treatment of
Medicines, Laws No. 10 of 1889, as revised by
Laws No. 6 of 1892, No. 6 of 1899, No. 35 of
1907, No. 24 of 1910 and No. 44 of 1925.
(b)
The Opium Law, Law No. 27 of 1897, as revised by
Laws No. 26 of 1917 and No. 43 of 1919.
(c)
Regulations for the Enforcement of the Opium Law,
Home Office Ordinance No. 4 of 1897, as revised
by Ordinances No. 4 of 1919, No. 5 of 1922 and
No. 44 of 1928.
(a)
Home Office Ordinance No. 6 of 19l7, relative
to the Government Sale of Opium to be Used for
Manufacturing Alkaloids.
(e)
Regulations for the Control of Transportation of
Opium by Ships, Department of Comnunications
Ordinance No. 5 of 1930.
(f)
Regulations for the Control of Narcotic Drugs, Home
Office Ordinance No. 17 of 1930.
The Government has a complete monopoly of the trate,
both internal and external, in raw and medicinal opium.
Connected with the monopoly are the Imperial Hygienio

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Laboratory of Tokio and that of Osaka, and into these
laboratories for storage or for manufacture of medicinal
opium goes all the opium imported and all that is purchased
by the Government from the poppy farmers of Japan. These
farmers are to be licensed by the Prefectural Governor, and
also must obtain, every year by the date fixed by the
Governor, his permission with regard to the locality and
acreage of poppy cultivation. The farmers must deliver
all the opium produced to the Governor, who in turn
forwards the opium to the laboratories.
The monopoly is
financed by means of an ordinary budget of the Government,
but the expenses of the administration of the laws
regulating the commerce in the derivatives of opium, and
in coca leaves and cocaine, are included in the appropria-
tion for the control of dangerous and other medicines.
The Minister for Home Affairs, in whose department is
lodged control of the monopoly and of the commercial trade
in opium and coca leaves and their derivatives, has
authorized only four concerns to purchase opium from the
Government monopoly. As no person or firm may procure
raw opium from any other source, only the firms specially
appointed can get raw material from which to manufacture
morphine.
The medicinal opium manufactured by the monopoly is
sent through the Prefectural Governor to the agents
specially appointed and qualified who supply, in their
Prefecture, qualified physicians, dentists, veterinary
surgeons, pharmacists and manufacturers of medicine. If
the purchaser, even though licensed to handle habit-
forming

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
L
-3-
forming drugs, wishes to purchase more than fifty
grams, he must obtain a certificate from his Pre-
fectural Governor; if less than fifty grams, from the
local police authorities. In preparing medicine, a
qualified person can obtain without the above men-
tioned certificate five receptacles of five grams
each within one year. Medicinal opium may not be trans-
ferred from one prefecture to another.
B. Substances Controlled.
1. What narcotic drugs are controlled by these laws and
regulations?
(1). All the drugs specified in the Hague and Geneva Conventions,
(and other drugs to which the Geneva Convention may be
applied in accordance with its Article l0).
(2) other drugs.
(3) Substances designated by the Minister for Home Affairs.
Note. What are the drugs covered by the laws which are not
included in the Convention?
(1) All the drugs decided as narcotic drugs in accordance with
Artiole 10 of the Convention.
(2) Other derivatives of morphine and of eogonine.
C. Administration.
1. What departments of the Government are charged with the
administration of the marcotic laws?
There are approximately fifty prefectures in Japan Proper.
At the head of each is a Governor appointed by the National
Government and his position is like that of civil servant
in Great Britain. He takes orders from the Central
Government

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Government and is responsible to it. Appointed also by
the Central Government is the head of the Prefeotural Police
Bureau.
The control of the monopoly and of the trade in opium, coca
leaves and their derivatives, is lodged in the Department of
Home Affairs, familiarly called " The Central Authority".
In order to facilitate cooperation, an Opium Commission has
been created consisting of the Minister for Home Affairs, the
Vice-Ministers and Directors of the Ministries concerned, and
the Vice-Governors of the Colonies.
There are specially appointed "inspectors" in tne prefectures.
They enlist the services of the local police to assist them
in the actual work of inspection. Since there are ll4,259
persons or firms authorized to handle or to prescribe drugs,
it is impossible for the Governor Inspectors to do this work
unaided. These instrumentalities, together with the harbor
or "Water police", who are an official part of the customs
administration, make up Japan's machinery for control. At
the same time the railway administration, postal service,
also cooperate with those authorities of the principal
departments.
2. If administration is not centralized in one department, what
provision is made for coordination?
D. Right to Deal in Narcotics.
1. Manufacture, Wholesale and Retail .
In this country a distinction practically exists between
wholesale and retail dealers in narcotics, but in regard
to the matter of control they are not governed by any
disoriminatory laws and regulations.
Persons

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Persons who may manufacture and sell narcotics are
confined as a rule to pharmacists(who possess fixed
qualifications and having had licenses granted by the
Minister for Home Affairs, have their names registered
in the official list of pharmacists). With regard to
the manufacture of narcotics, persons undertaking it are
required to obtain special permission from the Minister
for Home Affairs in accordance with the Regulations
for the Control of Narcotic Drugs.
There are "manufactures of drugs" licensed by the
prefectural governor, but theyaabsolutely prohibited
from selling any drugs other than those manufactured by
them . (As for the manufacture of narcotics such persons
are required, as pharmacists, to obtain permission from
the Minister for Home Affairs.) There are also "aruggists",
who may sell drugs, but can not be permitted to manufacture
them. As for the sale and transference of narcotics, it
is permitted only between them.
2. Medicinal Opium.
The manufacture and whole sale of medicinal opium can
be exclusively undertaken by the Government, and sale of it
is done only by persons specially designated as "dealers in
medicinal opium" by the Government among pharmacists and
druggists.
3. What companies extract alkaloids of opium and coca leaves?
Companies of opium alkaloid:
Name.
Address.
Sankyo Co.
Muromachi, Nihonbashiku, Tokio.
Hoshi Drug Manu-
Kirigaya, Osakicho, Ebara-gun,
facturing Co.
Tokio Prefecture.
Dai Nihon

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Name.
Address.
Dai Nihon Drug Co.
Doshomachi, Higashiku, Osaka.
Radium Drug Co.
Nakabashi Hirokoji, Nihonbashiku,
Tokio.
Companies of coca alkaloid.
Name.
Address.
Sankyo Co.
Muromachi, Nihonbashiku, Tokio.
Koto Drug Manufacturing Co. Tori Sanchome, Nihonbashiku,"
Hoshi Drug Co.
Kirigaya, Osakicho, Ebaragun, Tokio-
Prefecture.
Takeda Chobei
Doshomachi, Higashiku, Osaka.
Shionogi Shoten.
11
11
n
N.B. The manufacturers other than those mentioned in the
above list are those who manufacture injections,
Tabloids, etc., using alkaloids of opium and coca
leaves.
4. Importers and Exporters. - Is the right to import and export
narcotic drugs restricted to any comme cial or professional
groups?
The import or export of narcotics may be done by
persons who have obtained permission from the Minister
for Home Affairs each time it is done. Accordingly the
total number of importers or exporters is not fixed.
5. Brokers. - Is there any legislation restricting the right
of any person within the country to negotiate purchases and
sales between persons or firms in foreign countries?
None.
E. Licenses.
1.
Are special narcotic licenses required for dealing in
narootio drugs?
The manufacture of narcotics may be done by pharmacists

=== Page 78 === (confidence 1.00)
-7-
and manufacturers of drugs and (i) for manufacturing
those mentioned under (b), (c) and (g) of Article IV
of the Geneva Convention as well as those designated
by the Minister for Home Affairs, they are required to
obtain licenses from the Minister for Home Affairs and
(2) for manufacturing all other narcotics, they are
required to report before starting their manufacture.
2.
What department of the Government is authorized to issue
and revoke licenses?
Granting of licenses concerning the manufacture,
import, export etc. of narcotics and cancellation of
such licenses are effected by the Minister for Home Affairs.
3.
What requirements must be satisfied by the applicant before
licenses may be issued?
(i) A person who manufactures narcotics shall apply for
licenses to the Minister for Home Affairs throuh the
prefectural governor by presenting a statement giving
the particulars specified in the following items:-
1. Locality of the factory.
2.
Names of the drugs.
3.
Positions, structures and equipment of the
building to be used as factory or storehouse.
(ii) A person who imports narcotics shall obtain a license
from the Minister for Home Affairs through the pre-
fectural Governor by presenting a statement giving
the particulars specified in each of the following
items:-
1. Names and quantities of the drugs.
2.
Object of importation.
3.
Name and address of the consignor.
4. Period for importation.
5.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 1.00)
-8-
5. Means of transportation.
6. Port of importation.
(iii) A person who exports narcotics shall obtain a license
from the Minister for Home Affairs through the pre-
fectural Governor by presenting a statement giving the
particulars specified in each of the following items:
1. Names and quantities of the drugs.
2. Name and address of the consignee.
3. Period for exportation.
4. Means of transportation.
5. Port of export.
4. What investigation is made concerning such matters as
reliability, needs and premises of the applicants?
The Minister for Home Affairs issues orders to the
prefectural governor to carry out the investigation
referred to.
5. Under what circumstances may the administrative authority
revoke licenses?
In the event of a person infringing the provisions
of the Regulations for the Control of Narcotic Drugs or
being guilty of an offence concerning narcotic drugs or
opium or having committed any illegal acts his license
may be cancelled or he may be prohibited from manufacturing.
Section
Section
(Cf. 16 of Pharmacist Law, 42 of Regulations for the Sale
and Treatment of Medicines)
6. What method is employed to keep manufacturers and whole-
sale's informed of the names of the licensed dealers to whom
sales may be made?
When a dealer in drugs transfers narcotics to another
dealer in drugs or a physician he shall demand a certificate
issued by the Chief of the Police Station certifying that the
buyer

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
buyer is a dealer in drugs or a physician, except when a
dealer in drugs transfers narcotics to another dealer in
drugs or a physician, who is personally known t. the dealer
in drugs. ( This certificate shall be preserved for five
Years).
F.
Post.
1. Is the country a member of the Universal Postal Union?
Yes.
2. Under what circumstances may drugs be sent through the
post?
Forwarding of narcotics by post may be done by packing
them in a box with value declared and by parcel post, be-
sides the import or export authorization required to be
presented.
G.
Taxation.
1. Is there any system of taxation of the importation and ex-
portation(exclusive of customs duties), the manufacture
or sale of narcotic drugs?
None.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
II
Import and Export.
A. Certificate System.
1. What import and export certificate system has been adopted?
(i.e. Is the system prescribed by Chapter 5 of the
Geneva Convention used in full; if not, what are the
principal features of the system in use?)
Japan has put in force the import and export
certificate system which has been adopted by a large
number of countries on the reconmendation of the League
of Nations Opium Advisory Committee, and no consignment
of any of the substances covered by the Hague Convention
or any of their derivatives may be imported or exported
without a certificate. Raw opium and medicinal opium may
be imported or exported only by the Government monopoly.
The policy of the monopoly is to restrict the export
of medicinal opium to Japanese doctors, dentists and
pharmacists in foreign countries who can produce certified
import authorization certificates issued by the Japanese
Consul of the district in which the importer lives.
The
law does not forbid the importation of cocaine and
morphine but it is the resent policy of the Goverrment
to refuse all applications for import certificates for
these drugs so that the internal factories are the only
legitimate sources of supply.
2.
What authority is charged with the duty of issuing import
and export certificates?
The Minister for Home Affairs.
B. Imports.
1. Under what circumstances will an import certificate be
issued?
An

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
An import certificate is issued when a pharmacist or
a druggist has obtained authorization from the Minister
of Home Affairs for importing narcotics by applying therefor
through the Governor of the locality whereat he keeps
his main office.
2.
How many copies of the import certificate are issued and
what disposition is made of them:
When the Minister of Home Affairs issues an import
certificate to an importer of narcotics, he takes steps
to have a copy of the certificate sent through the Foreign
Office to the Japanese diplomatic authorities stationed
in the country from which the import is made, so that it
may be referred to by the Governaent of that country.
Furthermore, every time authorization for import of
narcotics is granted, notice to that effect is sent to
the Customs authorities at the port Whereat the narcotics
are landed.
This double check will go very far in preventing
any fraudulent transactions on the certificate issued by
the Japanese authority.
3.
What limits, if any, are imposed on the amounts that may be
imported?
There are no limits set on the amounts of narcotics that
may be imported by licensed persons, but in actual practice,
amounts are limited as much as possible, and since 1929
the policy has been taken to make an annual diminution of
the total amount of coca leaves and of crude cocaine im-
ported in order to reduce the output of the cocaine to the
level of the country's consumption plus the amount of
legitimate exports.
4.
Through what oustoms offices may imports be effected?
There is no regulation relating to the restriction on the
number of customs offices through which imports may be
efccted

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
effected, but practically all are cleared through Yokohama,
Kobe, Osaka, Moji and Hakodate.
5.
What officials or departments of the Government, local or
national, are notified that an import certificate has
been issued, and by what means is such notification efrected?
The Foreign Office is notified by means of the transmission
to them of a copy of the import certificate, while the
customs are notified of the authorization of importation
by the Home Office.
6. How long are import certificates valid?
Generally they are valid for six months.
7.
In case export certificates accompany imported con-
signments, are such certificates returned to the countries
of origin and, if so, by whom and with what endorsement?
The customs do not retur the export certificate to the
issuing country. The copy of the export authorization
sent by the exporting Govermnent is returned to that
Government with the endorsement in accordance with the
article 13 of the Geneva Convention.
8.
Do the customs keep separate records of the imports of
narcotic drugs?
Yes.
Do the customs notify the authority which issued the import
certificate of the arrival of the consignment and the exact
amount entered, and, if so, how soon after entry?
When import is made the importer is required to report
the fact within ten days to the Minister of Home Affairs
through the prefectural Governor by appending to the
report the import authorization and a copy of the export
certificate or of the diversion certificate attached to the
imported

=== Page 84 === (confidence 1.00)
-13-
imported goods. The customs authorities endorse the
import authorization referred to after comparing it with
the notice of authorization for import received from the
Minister of Home Affairs beforehand. In this way, though
the Customs authorities do not notify the Minister
airectly of the fact of import, the latter may see whether
the import has been made or not.
10.
Are records of imports kept by the authority which issued
the certificates?
Yes.
11. Are the internal customs or any other authorities at the
place where the consignment is to be cleared and released
notified of its arrival at the external customshouse?
See 9.
12. May narcotics be imported under such general descriptions
as " Pharmaceutical Products", and, if not, what description
is required?
Narcotics can not be imported under such general descriptions.
In all cases of import, accompanying papers must show the
exact nature of the shipment.
13.
May narcotics be imported on bills-of-lading made out
"to order"?
Regardless of bills-of-lading, Customs deliver narcotics
imported to the person only who obtained the importation
authorization.
14.
May narcotics be imported in cases containing other
pharmaceutical products?
Yes.
C.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 1.00)
-14-
C.
Exports.
1. Under what circumstances are export certificates issued?
In export trade, dealers in drugs can obtain authoriza-
tion of exportation from the Minister for Home Affairs
through the prefectural Governor by presenting a state-
ment giving the particulars specified in the following
items, attaching thereto the import certificate issued
by the authorities of the country of destination or the
certificate approving the introduction of the consign-
ment into the bonded warehouse;
1. Names and quantities of the drugs.
2.
Personal name( in the case of a judicial person, its
name) or trade-name of the consignee and the
address of his business office.
3.
Period for exportation to foreign countries or to
the territory.
4.
Means of transportation.
5.
Port of export to foreign countries or to the
territory.
2.
What policy does the issuing authority pursue regarding
applications for permission to export to:
(a) Countries which are parties to a narcotic drugs
convention but which have not adopted the import
certificate system ?
(0)
Countries which are not parties to a narcotic
drugs convention and whioh have not adopted the
import and export certificate system?
In both cases the Minister for Home Affairs issues
the export authorization on condition that an
applicant

=== Page 86 === (confidence 1.00)
-15-
applicant presents the import certificate issued by the
authority of the country of destination or the certificate
approving the introduction of the consignment into the bonded
warehouse.
3.
Through what customs offices may exports be effected?
Exports may be effected through any customs office, but
practically all consignments are exported through the
customs houses at Yokohama, Kobe, Osaka, Moji, and Hakodate.
4.
What officials or departments of the Government, local or
national, are notified that an export certificate has been
issued, and by what means is such notification effected?
The Custom Office concerned is notified by the Home Office in
an official document that an export certificate has been
issued.
5.
How many copies of the export certificate are issued and what
disposition is made of them?
The Minister for Home Affairs grants to the applicant the export
authorization, and a copy of the export authorization which the
applicant attaches to the consignment. He prepares another
copy of the export authorization which is sent for endorsement,
through the Foreign Office, to the Government of destination
in accordance with the provision of the Geneva Convention.
6.
How long are export certificates valid?
Generally for six months.
7.
Do the customs keep separate records of the exports of
narcotio drugs?
Yes.
8.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 1.00)
-16-
8. Do the customs notify the authority which issued the
export certificate, or any other authority, when ex-
ported consignments are cleared?
A person who has exported narcotics, reports it within
10 days to the Minister for Home Affairs through the pre-
fectural governor, attaching to the report the exporta-
tion authorization with the necessary endorsement by the
customs office. This method assumes that the Home Office
is notified indirectly by the customs office of the
execution of the exportation.
Are records of exports keptythe authority which issues
9.
the certificates?
Yes.
10.
May narcotics be exported under such general descriptions
as
" Pharmaceutical Products", and, if not, what
description is required?
In all cases of export, accompanying papers must show
the exact nature of the shipment. The exporter must
attach to the consignment a copy of the exportation
authorization.
11.
May narcotics be exported on bills-of-lading made out
" to order"?
Regardless of bills-of-lading, Customs do not allow
narcotics to be exported except by the person who obtained
the exportation authorization.
12.
May narcotics be exported in cases containing other
pharmaceutical products?
Yes.
13.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
13. What investigation is made if the importing country
does not return the copy of the export certificate
within a reasonable time?
The question is to be examined by the Permanent Central
Board at Geneva.
14.
Are imports and exports reported either to the Netherland
Government or to the League of Nations; and, if so, do the
reports specify the actual dates of departure from or
arrival in the country?
The Japanese Government reports imports and exports
four times in a year to the Permanent Central Board
at Geneva, but does not specify the actual dates of
departure or arrival.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
III. Transit and Diversion.
A. Transit.
1. Under what circumstances may consignments pass in
transit through the country?
(i) The master of a vessel carrying on board narcotic
drugs sent from one foreign country to another is
not permitted to transport the narcotic drugs for
the purpose of passing through Japan, unless he
presents to the head of the Customs of the port
at the time of the vessel's entrance therein
a copy of the export authorization or the diversion
certificate which accompanies the consignment.
(ii) A person can land(for storage in a honded ware-
house) ,reship or transship, narcotics of foreign
consignment, by presenting to the head of the
Customs concerned a copy of the export authoriza-
tion or the diversion certificate which accompanies
the consignment.
(iii) With regard to transit by land, narcotics stored
in a bonded warehouse, as the other goods, can be
transmitted to another bonded warehouse.
B. Diversion.
1. Are diversion certificates (such as those provided for
by the Geneva Convention) issued for the consignments
diverted from their original destinations?
It is the polioy that the Japanese Government does not
issue such diversion certificates.
IV.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 1.00)
-19-
IV. Internal Control.
A。
Free Ports and Free Zones.
Neither free ports nor free zones exist in Japan.
B. Bonded Warehouses.
1. Are there bonded warehouses in which narcotics may be
stored in the country?
There are bonded warehouses of the customs. Chief
among them are Yokohama, Tokio, Kobe and Osaka.
A person who stores narcotics of foreign consignment
in order to land, reship or transship them on the way
to the definite destination, shall present to the head
of the customs concerned a copy of the export authoriza-
tion or diversion certificate which accompanies the
consignment.
2. What supervision is exercised over narcotics stored in
such warehouses?
The regulations concerning narcotics are applied.
C. Storage.
1.
What requirements are there regarding the manner in
which narcotics in the possession of dealers or manu-
facturers must be stored?
Poisonous drugs(which include morphine and preparations)
and powerful drugs(which include the other narcotic
drugs) shall be kept apart from other drugs;and
poisonous drugs shall be stored in a place provided
with a lock.
D.
Records, Prescriptions and Reports.
1. What records are dealers required to keep?
A dealer in drugs shall keep a book and enter therein,
in

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
in respect of receiving and disposing(including exports and
imports) of narcotic drugs, the names and quantities, the
date, the personal name or trade name, the vocation and the
address of the person from whom he has received the narcotic
drugs or to whom he has disposed of or the address of his
business office; and in the case of (1) morphine, heroin
and cocaine and salts thereof,(2) ecgonine and derivatives
and salts thereof, (3) morphine derivatives and salts, the
particulars inscribed on the vessels or packages and the
serial numbers. This book shall be preserved for five years
from the such date of entry, except(concerning) the narcotic
drugs, which are disposed of in accordance Mith the pre-
soriptions issued by physicians, and the narcotic drugs which
are especially to be designated by the Minister for Home
Affairs.
2. Must prescriptions be filled, and may they be refilled?
A pharmacist prepares medicines in accordance with pre-
seriptions signed by a medical practitioner or stamped
with his seal. When he prepares a medicine containing a
poisonous or powerful drug, he has to stamp his seal on the
prescription and preserve it for three years after the date
on which he has prepared the medicine. This rule, however,
is not applied to a case in which he has not put in the entire
portion of the drug to be used during a certain period as
designated in the prescription. In this case he is re-
quired to enter in the prescription the date on which he
has compounded the medicine and the amount of the drug put
into it and sign his name and stamp his seal under it.
How frequently must reports be made of manufacture, purchases,
3.
sales, and stocks and in what detail?
A

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
A person who has manufactured narcotic drugs shall annually
report by the last day of January of the following year to
the Minister for Home Affairs through the prefectural Governor
of the prefecture, in which he has his factory, the names
and quantities of the drugs he has manufactured by the last
day of December of each year, and the kinds, quantities and
origin of supply of the raw materials.
A person who has imported or exported narcotics, shall report
it within ten days to the Minister for Home Affairs through
the prefectural governor.
4.
If a separate report must be made, or if permission must be
obtained in advance, for each transaction, What is the
procedure?
A person who manufactures the narcotics such as morphine ,
heroin, cocaine etc. or imports or exports all the narcotics,
must apply for permission to the Minister for Home Affairs
through the prefectural governor.
5.
Are reports made to the Department of the Government respon-
sible for issuing import and export certificates?
Reports are made through the prefectural covernor to the
Minister for Home Affairs.
6.
Are all returns of sellers checked against returns of buyers?
No.
E.
Inspection.
1. By what authorities are factories, wholesalers and retailers
inspected?
Especially concerning the narcotics control, the prefectural
governor may cause a sanitary officer or police officer to
examine the certificate of identity or the book of sale, or to
inspect the place in which narootics are manufactured, col-
leoted

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
lected, prepared, stored or sold.
2. If inspection is made by officials of the local Government,
are the results reported to the central Government, and, if so,
to what department and in what detail?
The results are reported, in case and in detail required, to the
central Government and to the other local Government concerned.
3. How frequently are inspections made?
Inspections are made as often as required.
4. If the inspections are not all under one department and if
individual transactions are not reported to a central office, by
what inspection system are books of sellers checked against
books of buyers?
In order to check books of sellers in one prefecture against
books of buyers in another prefecture, close cooperation is
maintained maintained among the prefectural Governors con-
cerned who despatch the inspectors.
F.
Illicit Traffic.
1. If the customs discover an attempt to smuggle à rugs into
or out of the country, do they report immediately to the
authority which issues import and export certificates?
They report immediately to the Ministry of Finance who in
turn reports to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and
cooperate with the prefectural governors who in turn report
to the Ministry for Home Affairs.
2.
In cases of detection of illicit dealing within the
country, is the central authority immediately notified?
In cases of detection of illicit dealing within the country,
reports are made to the Ministry for Home Affairs who in
turn report to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs.
3.
In cases of smuggling of drugs by post, must the postal
authorities immediately communicate with the central
authority?

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
authority?
Yes.
4. Does the central authority participate in the criminal pro-
ceedings in narcotios cases?
As in other cases the authorities concerned submit narcotics
cases to the publio prosecutor, but do not participate in the
criminal proceedings.
5. What disposition is made of seized narcotics?
The Law of Penal Procedure stipulates that the prosecutor
disposes of the confiscated substances. Practically the
seized narcotics were sent to the Imperial Hygienic Laboratory
in Tokio who makes use of them.
G. Penalties.
1. What penalties are provided for breach of the narcotics laws
and regulations?
Offenders against the opium monopoly are punishable by fines
and by imprisonment up to two years.
Offenders against the regulations relating to morphine,
cocaine, their salts derivatives, etc., are punishable by
fines and imprisonment up to three months.
V. Miscellaneous.
A. Other Legal or Administrative Measures.
1. Are there any other important legal or administrative
measures controlling the traffic in narcotic drugs?
None.
2.
With what countries, if any, is there an arrangement for
direct exohange between enforcement officers of information
concerning the illicit traffic in narootic drugs?
The Japanese Government concluded with the Government of the
United

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
United States of America in the year 1928 an informal agree-
ment, which is supplemented by another informal arrangement con-
cluded in 1929 between the two countries for the purpose of
aiding each other in the colle ction and communication, by (1)
officials in the Japanese and American diplomatic and consular
services (outside Japanese and American territory) and by (2)
officials in the Japanese and American diplomatic and consular
services and Japanese and American officials charged with the
control of illicit traffic(within Japanese and American terri-
tory), of information facilitating the seizure of narcotics
and the detection and apprehension of those engaged in illicit
traffic therein.
a. What officer is charged with this function?
By the above mentioned agreement it was arranged that the Head of
the Bureau of Treaties of the Foreign Office in Tokio should
directly cooperate with the narcotic commissioner in the
Department of Finance of the United States of America.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.96)
BH
February 3 1982.
Im reply refer to
E 094.114 Narc0t1os/65
894.114 NARCOTICS/64
Attention: Bureau of Narooties
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and
enoloses herewith, for the information of the Commissioner
of Narootics, e copy of despatoh No. 398, dated November 30,
193l, from the Ameridan Embassy at Tokyo, with a copy of
1ts enolosure, a summary of the laws and regulations
coverning the control of the traffic in uarcotio drugs
1m Japan and the Mandated Islands.
Enclosure:
No. 398, November 30, 1952,
from Tokyo., with questionnaire.
FE1EMF
2/2/32
A true copy
the sigurd ori
inal.
Feb. 3 1932.
OR
A

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.114 NARCOTICS/65
SEE893.114.Narcotics/378
FOR
#308..Political
FROM ......Ganexa
(.....Gilbert.......) DATED ......Aug..l.1932.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGArDING: Yellow Book:
Chinese Minister at Geneva has suggested preparation of -
for circulation during next meeting of Assembly, setting
forth situation in China and Manchuria regarding unlawful
importation of narcotic drugs, with particular reference to
part played by Japanese in this illicit traffic.
ja
5

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.114 NARCOTICS
SEE......91.90/
FODespatch-4.1193
FROM _Possia
(....)Wadswerth...) DATED ...Jal y-20,1932
TO
NAME
1—1127
Japamese interest and participatiem in the Persiss
REGARDING:
trade in opium and other commodities. Japam bays B
of Persia's epium.
167
DT
67

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 1, 1933
No. 277.
Subject:
Tracing the origin of narcotic drugs.
3RE
PM RECO
FE027538
Z
894.114 NARCOTI CS/68
Diviion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB 28 1933
Depertment of State
Copy taken
Telegram sent to
Jakfo
1933
Soit
MAR 27 1933
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
The Consul at Kobe has informed the Embassy that he
experiences great difficulty in enlisting the assistance of
the local Police authorities in tracing the origin of narcotic
drugs which are found from time to time by the Customs au-
thorities in the United States on vessels ariving from Japan.
This complaint seems to be fairly wide-spread.
In view of these conditions, I suggest that the Customs
MAR 28-1933
authorities
FILED

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
authorities communicate directly with the Embassy when-
ever narcotic drugs are found which appear to be of Japanese
origin. It is suggested that labels taken from the con-
tainers or photographic copies thereof, as well as samples
of the drugs, if possible, be sent with the communication.
The Embassy will then take the matter up with the Japanese
Government with a request for proper investigation. This,
in my judgment, is a more satisfactory method of handling
these cases, as the local authorities are usually unen-
terprising in any matter which may reach beyond their
jurisdiction.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
811.4
ELN:r
2 carbors
degtroped
3/28/23 JUKD

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
1-118
TO BE TRANSMITTED
MING OFFICE
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
DICATE WHETHER
TONCONTDENALCODE
Department of State
OR
Charge Bureau of Narcotics,
Washington,
Troasury Department.
March 27, 1933.
AMEMBASSY,
TOKYO (JAPAN).
3.1
confidential.
277, February 1.
N
Embassy's despatch No.
8
One. Increasing amountsof morphine apparently of
6
4
Japanese manufacture appearing in the illicit traffic
on the Pacific Coast are causing grave concern.
4
Two. Under arrangement for direct exchange of
2
information concerning illicit traffic, the Commissioner
A
ARCOTI
of Narcotics on July 25, 1932 sent to the Director of the
Bureau of Treaties at Tokyo particulars of the seizure on
July 7 from the Steamship VENICE MARU at Seattle of thirty
C
pounds of morphine bearing Japanese labels. On October
S
1932 he sent additional data including pho tograph of
9
6
shipping tag concerned. No acknowledgment of these
communications has been received.
Three. The Department is now informed that the
Treasury Attaché in Japan was instruoted in July last by
another bureau of the Treasury Department to investigate
this case independently of the direct exohange provided for
such
Enctphered by
M.,
19.
Sent by operator
Indez Bu.—No. 50.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM SENT
RING OFFICE
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
DICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
arge Department
Department of State
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
Washington,
$
-2-
such oases, which was outlined in the Embassy's despatoh
800.114 N/6 2yation/326
No. 94, dated December 29, 1930. No information has
been received'as to the result of any investigation made
by the Treasury Attaché. The Department is'apprehensive
lest this duplication has interfered with the effeotive
handling of the oase.
Four. Without, repeat without, approaching the
Japanese authorities, please ascertain and report by
telegraph what action, if any, the Treasury Attaché has
taken in this case, with what result and whether he has
taken action in any subsequent cases of seizure of'narcotics
in the United States.
Five. Instruot all consular officers in Japan to
refer to the Embassy requests of Collectors of Customs
for investigation of narcotics seizures. The Embassy should
in suoh cases, within its discretion, ask the Japanese
correspondent under the direct exchange of information to
investigate and to send the data directly to the Commissioner
of Narcotics. The Department should be informed of each'
such case.' Meanwhile, the Department will take up with the
Enciphered by
Treasury
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Inder Bu.—No. 50.
1000
1-188

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM SENT
1-1.18
TO BE TRANSM!TTED
ARING OFFICE
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NDICATE WHETHER
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
PLAIN
Department of State
arge Department
OR
Washington,
Charge to
$
-3-
Treasury Department the question of having Collectors
of Customs instrueted to submit their requests for'
investigations through the Commissioner of Narcotics under
the'direct exohange arrangement referred to above.
BILTREASRY.
FE:SJF:EMF
FE
CB
JAn
5
Mar. 27.
894.114 Narcot1cs/68
Enciphered by
M.,
19
Send by operator
1-188
ndex Bu.-No. 50.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MET
Tokio
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be- FROM
Dated March 30, 1933
fore being communicated
to anyone. (b)
EBNAFFAIRS
Washington.
Telegrand
to kobk + littn Ito
69, March 30, 3 p. m.
Treasin, april 17,1933,
89
Department's 30, March 27, 5 p. m., narcotics.
Smp
Treasury Attache rep orts that he has made only two
requests for investigation during the past year. Follow-
4
ing are the two: Case of the VENI CE MARU on which nar-
NARCOTICS/70
ctics were reported to have been seized in Seattle on
July 7, and the other the PRESIDENT MADISON on which
narcotics were fcund on August 7. In both instances
the request for an investigation was made through the
American Consul at Kobe who addressed the local authori-
ties at Osaka without result. I am instructing all con-
sular officers to refer future cases to the Embassy.
In view of the lack of results in the cases which
have been referred to the Japanese Government, I think
it would be advisable to approach the Foreign Office
and to ask the Foreign Minister to look into the question.
Apparently these investigations are handled by subordi-
nates without much authority. A manifestation of inter
8
FILED
est on the part of those higher up might be of benefit
6
Please instruct
33
GREW
HPD

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.95)
may
PREPARING OFFICE
1-188
TELEGRAM SENT
1-138
TO BE TANSMITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
Collect
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Charge DepartmentX
Deparfäfntof State
RECEIVED
OR
Chargo to
1933 APR -18- PH 3:50
Washington,
$
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS & RECORDS
18
April
1933.
JA 894.114 HA.C0T1C8/71
AMERICAN CONSUL.
TOKYO (JAP.N).
Instruct all consular officers in Japan to
send to the Department, under confidential cover,
copies of all correspondence which they address
to Treasury Attachés in regard to narcotic drugs.
Hull
E.RS.
FE: SJF:EMF
FE
AKA
894.1l4 Narcotics/
CR
Apr. 18 1933 pr
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-188

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.93)
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
BUREAU OF NARCOTICS
WASHINGTON
ONER OF NARCOTICS
March 29, 1933.
Dypigion of
N
INFORMAL.
FFAIRS
894.114 NARCOTICS/72
MAR 311933
Degattrmant State
Stuart J. Fuller, Esq.,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
C:
I hasten to enclose, for your confidential in-
R
 formation, the copy of a letter dated March 27, 1933, from
Colonel C. H. L. Sharman, regarding Japanese morphine.
Unless you have other ideas on the subjeot, I
intend to tell Sharman that the Japanese Government has not
been affording us the desired cooperation, and to suggest
that he withhold this information until a case confirming it
894.114 nar
has been successfully concluded.
Sincerely yours,
Himshmgel
H.J. Anslinger,
—0
Comissioner.
Confidential File
AFd 24 1933
FULED

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
copy
DEPARTMENT OF PENSIONS AND NATIONAL HEALTH
Elgin Building
15-15492
Ottawa, March 27, 1933.
CHLS/GB
SECRET
My dear Mr. Anslinger,
▲ Japanese resident of Vancouver recently received a
letter, dated February 3, 1933, from one K. Yuki of 53 Ichomei,
Kumauchi-dori, Kobe, Japan, from which the following are extracts:
".....and because we learned that there is a very
striet customs inspection at all American and Canadian
ports, we studied and found that the best methods to
overcome this difficulty are as follows:
1. In using members of ships' crews for this
business we will supply them with double cased soles
on their shoes. This method has been adopted in our
business with China and India and proved so suceessful
that not a single case was discovered. By this method,
each person can carry one pound or less on each trip
ashore.
2. In case of shipping as common cargo, it is
sent into the country as canned goods, each can being
perfect in weight, size, etc., to conform with the ship-
ping papers. (It is very dangerous to attempt to use
this method with piekled goods).
With these above methods you will be absolutely free from
any danger of discovery. Kindly consider this matter seriously and
arrange introduetions to us with such members of crews coming into
your club who you believe to be trustworthy, and who would like to
enter into this business.
"Price List as follows:- (Japan)
1. Hydrochloric Acid-Morphine (crystallized like
cotton fibre) - 18 oz. bottle @ 33Y per oz.
2. Heroin - Powdered - 25 oz. bottle @ 32Y per oz.
3. Cocaine - (crystallized in scale form) 25 oz. bottle
@ 32Y per oz.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
"The above goods are manufactured by permission of the
Minister of Interior and are of best quality for injection or
applied in tobacco. They are all in common use, especially favoured
by Chinese.
"If you do not wish to handle these goods by sailors you
may handle them as common cargo as above mentioned, (an absolutely
perfect method). In this case, if you deposit $1o0.00, we will ship
the goods to you. This is a rather difficult proposition to begin
with, but we have done it previously with good results.
"When you order by cable, please use the cable address,
YUKI,KOBE."
The recipient of this letter has promised to help us in any
way he can in his efforts to learn if anyone else has been approached
in the same manner, although he is extremely anxious that he shall
not be exposed as an informer. He has been instructed to carry on
further correspondenee with Yuki with a view to endeavouring to ascer-
tain something more with regard to these methods of smuggling.
Mr. C. A. Emerick, U. S. Customs Agent of Seattle, was in
Vancouver at the time this information was obtained, and it was
tranamitted to him secretly.
It will be noted that the present value of the Japanese Yen
makes it possible for narcotics to be delivered in Canada for about
$8.00 an ounce, and the price would be even less in your Country.
In view of the long distance between Vancouver and Ottawa,
it is impossible for me to immediately form an estimate, without
a knowledge of the local conditions, as to the extent to which this
information can be disseminated with safety, and I am, therefore,
only, at the moment, writing privately to Perrins and your good self.
I have asked Vancouver to give me their considered opinion as to
whether the exposure of the agent or the further development of the
case would be endangered if the information were confidentially
tranmmitted (a) to the Countries with whom we secretly exchange in-
formation and (b) to the Japanese authorities. If they agree in
regard to (a), I will in due course issue a confidential circular,
but I should imagine that with regard to (b) there will be objeetions.
I would, however, very much appreciate your personal opinion as to
what your owm ideas would be with regard to notifying the Japanese
authorities, under our ordinary International obligations, either now
or at some later date.
The point I am most concerned about is whether our informer

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
is the only person in Vancouver who has received this commmnica-
tion, and as he is continuing the correspondence on our behalf
there might be a serious danger of his identity becoming known
if action were taken along lines which, perhaps, would not be
identical with those which you or I would take in similar
circumstances.
With kind regards.
Sincerely yours,
(signed) C. H. L. Sharman
Chief, Narcotic Division.
H. J. Anslinger, Esq.,
Commissioner of Narcotics,
Treasury Department,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.97)
AM RECD
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VISIONOFFAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JEMORANDUM
6 1984
April 15, 1933.
SKH:
APR 16 33
July
Subject:
Investigation of Cases of
Illicit Traffic in Narcotics
Involving Japan
894.114 NARCOT1CS/73
The appearance on the Pacific Coast of increasing
quantities of morphine apparently of Japanese manufacture
has been causing grave concern to the Bureau of Narcotics
and to the Department of State.
A tabulation is annexed which sets forth the main
particulars of the principal seizures reported to the De-
partment of State since January 1, 1932.
It will be noted that, aside from two instances at
Honolulu involving small quantities of patent medicines,
all of these seizures took place on the Pacific Coast.
The Commissioner of Narcotics informs FE that, as a result
of the large quantities of Japanese morphine now in the
hands of traffickers, the price in the illicit traffic has
FILED
dropped from $200.00 an ounce to $50.00 an ounce. The
22
1933
Commissioner also states that this morphine is being dis-
tributed and peddled to addicts by Japanese subjects.
In each instance of seizure of morphine or of cocaine
whioh appeared to be of Japanese origin, the Commissioner
F1
of

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
of Narcotics, acting under the arrangement concluded, at
the request of the Treasury Department, with the Japanese
Government in December, l930, for direct exchange between
the respective heads of narcotics enforcement in the two
countries, has reported the seizure to the Director of the
Bureau of Treaties and Conventions in the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs at Tokyo. In each case, the Commissioner has also
sent either originals or photographs of the labels concerned,
with the usual request for investigation and report. Two
such communications went forward March 28, 1933 and there
has not yet been time for acknowledgment to reach Washington.
Although ample time has elapsed since the despatch of the
Commissioner's communications in the other two cases, all
that has been received is a mere acknowledgment of the letter
in regard to the PRESIDENT MADISON seizure.
When in Geneva last autumn, Mr. Fuller, orally and in-
formally, informed Mr. Kusama, Japanese representative on the
Opium Advisory Committee that increasing quantities of mor-
phine, apparently of Japanese origin, were being found on
the Pacific Coast and were being smuggled, distributed and
peddled by Japanese subjects. He informed Mr. Kusama that
particulars of two seizures had been sent to Tokyo by the
Commissioner of Narcotics for investigation and expressed the
hope that the matter would be taken promptly in hand. Mr.
Kusama said that he would write the Foreign Office urging
prompt

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
prompt action, thorough investigation, and prompt report.
On February 28, 1933, despatoh No. 277, dated Feb-
ruary 1, 1933 (894.114 Narcotics/68) from the American
Ambassador at Tokyo was received at the Department. This
despatoh reads as follows:
"The Consul at Kobe has informed the
Embassy that he experiences great difficulty
in enlisting the assistance of the local Police
authorities in tracing the origin of narootic
drugs which are found from time to time by the
Customs authorities in the United States on
vessels arriving from Japan. This complaint
seems to be fairly wide-spread.
"In view of these conditions, I suggest
that the Customs authorities communicate
directly with the Embassy whenever narcotic
drugs are found which appear to be of Japanese
origin. It is suggested that labels taken from
the containers or photographic copies thereof,
as well as samples of the drugs, if possible,
be sent with the communication. The Embassy
will then take the matter up with the Japanese
Government wi th a request for proper investiga-
tion. This, in my judgment, is a more satis-
factory method of handling these cases, as the
local authorities are usually unenterprising in
any matter which may reach beyond their jurisdic-
tion."
In the latter part of March, 1933, the Department
was informed that the American Treasury Attaché in Japan
was instructed some time last autumn, presumably by the
Commissioner of Customs, to investigate the VENICE MARU
seizure, and possibly the one from the PRESIDENT MADISON,
independently of the direct exchange arrangement provided,
by

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
by agreement between the two governments, to cover such
oases.
It was thus evident that an unfortunate si tuation
had been created, through lack of coordination in the
Treasury Department. The result was that this Department
and the Bureau of Narcotics had not received, from the
Japanese authorities, the cooperation to which the Ameri-
can Government is entitled under the Hague Opium Conven-
tion of l9l2 and the subsidiary agreement, effected by
exchange of notes, to carry out the intent of that Treaty.
The seizures from the PRESIDENT ILADISON and from
the VENICE MARU are bound to come up for discussion at
the meeting of the Opium Advisory Committee in May. When
this occurs, the American representative will be obliged to state
that no report has been received from the Japanese Govern-
ment on either case. The Japanese reply will probably
place the American Government in the same unenviable posi-
tion in which the French placed us last year. It will be
recalled that the French representative at that time stated
that, although a regular arrangement was in effect with the
American Government specifying the way in which such cases
should be handled, the French authorities never knew where
they stood in American cases because they would be addressed,
in a single case, by several American Government agencies
acting independently of each other, including the Commissioner
of

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
at Washington,
of Customs, American Treasury Attachés in France and
Treasury officials in New York. In the very case in
whioh the American representatives (in cooperation with
the British, Indian, Egyptian, Dutch and German represen-
tatives) had planned to point out lack of French coopera-
tion, the French read a laudatory letter of appreciation
(entirely undeserved ) from the American Commissioner of
at Washington,
Customs, who, so far as FE is informed, is not authorized
to correspond with the French narcotic authorities.
To meet the situation temporarily, the following
telegraphio instruction was sent (in confidential code)
to the American Embassy at Tokyo, Match 27, 1933:
"Confidential.
68
"Embassy's despatoh No.277, February 1.
"One. Increasing amounts of morphine
apparently of Japanese manufacture appearing
in the illicit traffic on the Pacific Coast
are causing grave concern.
"Two. Under arrangement for direct exchange
of information concerning illicit traffic, the
Commissioner of Narcotics, on July 25, 1932, sent
to the Director of the Bureau of Treaties at
Tokyo particulars of the seizure on July 7 from
the Steamship VENICE MARU at Seattle of thirteen
pounds of morphine bearing Japanese labels. On
October 3, 1932, he sent additional data including
photograph of shipping tag concerned. No acknowledg-
ment of these communications has been received.
"Three

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
"Three. The Department is now informed
that the Treasury Attaché in Japan was in-
structed in July last by another bureau of
the Treasury Department to investigate this
case independently of the direct exchange pro-
vided for such cases, which was outlined in
the Embassy's despatch No. 94, dated December 29,
1930. No information has been received as to
the result of any investigation made by the
Treasury Attaché. The Department is apprehensive
lest this duplication has interfered with the ef-
feotive handling of the case.
"Four. Without, repeat,without, approaching
the Japanese authorities, please ascertain and
report by telegraph what action, if any, the
Treasury Attaché has taken in this case, with what
result and whether he has taken action in any sub-
sequent cases of seizure of narcotics in the United
States.
"Five. Instruct all consular officers in
Japan to refer to the Embassy requests of Collectors
of Customs for investigation of narcotics seizures.
The Embassy should in such cases, within its dis-
cretion, ask the Japanese correspondent under the
direct exchange of information to investigate and
to send the data directly to the Commissioner of
Narcotics. The Department should be informed of
each such case. Meanwhile, the Department will
take up with the Treasury Department the question
of having Collectors of Customs instructed to
submit their requests for investigations through
the Commissioner of Narcotics under the direct
exchange arrangement referred to above. BILTREASRY."
20
The Ambassador's reply, dated March 30, 1933, is
quoted below:
"Department's 20, March 27, 5 p.m., narcotics.
"Treasury Attaché reports that he has made
only two requests for investigation during the
past year. Following are the two: Case of the
VENICE MARU on which narcotics were reported to have
been

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
been seized in Seattle on July 7, and the
other the PRESIDENT MADISON on which narco tics
were found on August 7. In both instances the
request for an investigation was made through
the Amerioan Consul at Kobe who addressed the
local authorities at Osaka without result. I
am instructing all consular officers to refer
future cases to the Embassy.
"In view of the lack of results in the
cases which have been referred to the Japanese
Government, I think it would be advisable to
approach the Foreign Office and to ask the Foreign
Minister to look into the question. Apparently
these investigations are handled by subordinates
without muoh authority. A manifestation of inter-
est on the part of those higher up might be of
benefit. Please instruct."
On April 14, 1933, Mr. Fuller telephoned to Mr. Shamhart
in the Bureau of Customs, to inquire whether the Treasury
Attaché had ever reported in regard to a seizure of Japanese
heroin which took place in January, 193l. Mr. Shamhart
loaned to FE certain papers from the Bureau of Customs files,
photostat copies of two of which are annexed. The Treasury
Attachés letter of January 19, 1933, shows the efforts made
by him to obtain information in the PRESIDENT MADISON and
VENICE MARU cases. Al though the Treasury Department has had
this information for over two months, the Department of State
has not hitherto been informed in the premises. Agent Hanks'
letter of September 7, 1932, contains information which should
have been transmitted to this Department, but, apparently
was

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
was not turned over to the Commissioner of Narcotics,
who is liaison with the Department of State in matters
concerning narcotic drugs.
Whatever may be the reasons (and they are several),
it is evident that the American Government is not receiving
the cooperation which it should receive from the Japanese
Government in narcotics cases. It also looks as though our
own bureaux and departments were not adequately cooperating.
In view of existing conditions, it is submitted that
it would be well to arrange to have all requests for in-
vestigation of narcotics cases from now on, for a while
at least, placed before the Japanese Foreign Office by
the American Embassy at Tokyo.
A draft is annexed of a letter to the Treasury De-
partment suggesting this procedure and requesting the
Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the Commissioner of
Narcotics accordingly and to direct the Treasury Attaché
at Kobe to approach the Japanese authorities in narco tics
cases only through the American Embassy at Tokyo.
When the Treasury Department's agreement is received,
the American Ambassador at Tokyo can be instructed accord-
ingly by mail. At the same time, a telegraphic instruction
can be sent to the Ambassador stating that the Treasury
Attaché is being instructed to take up narcotics cases
through the Embassy only.
In

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.97)
-9-
In the meantime, it is suggested that the attached
telegram be sent to the American Consul General at Tokyo
directing him to instruct all consular officers in Japan
to send to the Department, under confidential cover, copies
of all correspondence which they address to the Treasury
Attachés in Japan in regard to narcotics. A similar ar-
rangement is now in effect in France and in Hong Kong.
It works well and consideration is being given to estab-
lishing such a rule throughout the service.
StuaJ. Fuller.
FE:SJF:EMF
FE
894.114 Narcotics/
Plotoitats

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANESE DRUGS AND SHIPB.
Report
Name of
Place of
Kind of
Quantity
No.
Ship
Seizure.
Drug.
117
(mails)
*Honolulu
Patent
34 vials
Feb.3,1932.
Medicine
2.49% cocaine
hydrochloride.
119
ASAMA MARU
*Honolulu
Patent
100 bot-
Feb.20,1932.
Mcdicine
tles of
containing
6 oz. ea.
Codeine.
135
VENICE MARU *Seattle
Morphine
480 oz.
Ju1,7,1932
Labels:
Japan Phar-
maceutical
Estabt.
Morphine
1050
146
PRES.MADIBON *Seattle
Aug.10,1932
hydrochloride
grains
Labels: Imper-
1al Hygienic
Laboratory.
193
YOGI MARU
*Tacoma
Feb.8,1933
Morphine
80 oz.
No labels.
196
AKAGISAN
*Scappoose,
Morphine HCl
MARU
Oregon.
in cubes.
Feb.24,1933
Label:Japan
Pharmaceutical
.64 oz.
Estabt. ....
Morphine no
label......
.448 oz.
Morphine no
label....
48 oz.
199
none
/Los Angeles
Cocaine
Feb.8,1933
Label: Gohe1
Tanabe,Osaka......80
grains.
by Narcoties
by Customs

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.94)
11
BUREAU OFNARCOTICS
9
WASHINGTON
FFICE OF
BIONER OF NARCOTICS
April 18, 1933.
Davision of
Z
APR 1331EASTERN AFFAIRS
INFORMAL.
894.
APR 19 1933
Prpetanent d
Stuart J. Fuller, Esq.,
114 NARCOTICS/74
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Fuller:
Referring to my letter dated March 29, 1933,
on the subject of Japanese morphine, I now have to enclose,
for your confidential information, the copy of a letter
dated April 14, 1933, from Mr. H. D. Smith, District Super-
visor at San Francisco, California.
Sincerely yours,
 anshng
Anslinger,
Commissioner.
Enclosure.
Confluen
APR 24

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
Copy
U. S. NARCOTIC SERVICE
Los Angeles, California
April 14, 1955
Mr. H. J. Anslinger
Commissioner of Narcotics
Washington, D. C.
Personal and Confidential
Dear Mr. Anslinger:
Reference is made to Progress Reports submitted by
me during the past several months, practically all of which
contained suggestions relative to the reported activity of
Japanese smmgglers and distributors on the Pacific Coast which
resulted in a lowering of prices and obviously presenting a
problem most diffioult to cope with.
As I recall, this matter was discussed with you
orally on your visit to the Coast last year, since which time
it has constantly become more apparent that morphine in large
quantities was being imported from Japan by Japanese.
The case just reported by me from Los Angeles in-
volving three Japanese defendants and identified as Cal-
1517 is clearly evidential of the extent of this traffie and
at the same time an investigation was concluded in Seattle,
as well as a large seizure of morphine being made by State
traffic officers in Oregon, all of which involved Japanese.
I have in mind also Colonel Sharman's confidential letter
to you, a copy of which was forwarded me, touching on the
same subjest. There seems to be no limit to the extent of
activities by these people and source of supply in Japan and
they are offering this contraband in quantities which in my
opinion will soon approach proportions of the former European
ring.
The principal defendant in Case Cal-1517 whose name
is Mayeda and whose cable registry was reported to you
supplementally as Kojitaka, undoubtedly has been one of the
principal importers in this section, and it is obvious that
between the arrests in Seattle, Portland and Los Angeles all
involving morphine in the hands of and imported by Japanese,
presents evidencs of sufficient value to form the basis of a

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
gemeral investigation by and with Japanese authorities if
they are recipient. The supplemental report to you in
commection with Case Cal-l5l7 contains a true copy of a
eablekrem directed to a person in Osaka, Japan, whose cable
registry is indicated as Kawatatsu and prior to the arrest
of the three defendants in the Los Angeles case at least one
had told informer Louie that their Japanese connection was
a menufacturer who would only do business with three Japanese
on the Pacific Coast of the United States.
I presume the Division of Foreign Control is co-
ordinating all of these matters and in view of the fact that
w are gradually breaking in to the organization and are in
possession of sufficient evidence to indicate that no diffi-
culty is being encountered by the importers in getting this
contraband through Customs, that the various Collectors at
Paeific coast ports should have the situation strongly
brought to their attention.
If you have any suggestions or instructions, I would
highly appreciate being advised.
Yours very truly,
(signed) Harry D. Smith
District Supervisor
Dist. #15.
BDS:K

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.94)
In reply refer to
S
FE 894.114 Naroot1cs/
CONFIDENTIAL
The Honorable
The Secretary of the .reasury.
Sir:
As the Treasury Dopertmont is aware, the appearance
C
on the Pacific Coast of increaging quantities of morphine
apparently of Japanese manufacture and apparently smuggled,
CI
distributed and peddled to addicts by Japanese subjects
has been causing grave conoern.
For convenient reference, a tabulution is enclosed
whioh sets forth the main particulurs of the principal
seizures reported to the Department of State under estab-
lished arrangements, by the Commissioner of Narcotics,
since January 1, 1932. 1t vill be noted that, aside from
two instances at Honolulu involving small quantities of
patent medicines, all of these seizures took place on the
Pacific Coast.
In

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
In each instance of seizure of morphine or of cocaine
whioh appeared to be of Japanese origin, the commissioner
of Narootics, acting under the arrangement ooncluded, at
the request of the Treasury Department, with the Japanese
Government in December, 1930, for direct exchange between
the respective heads of narcotics enforcement in the two
countries, has reported the seizure to the Director of the
Bureau of Treatios und Conventions in the Hin1stry of For-
eign Affairs at Tokyo. In ench cnse, the Commissioner has
also sent cither oricinals  photographs of the labels
concerned, with the ucual request for investigation end
report.
Two such communieations went forwurd March 28.
1933 and there hus not yet been time for acknowledgment
t roaoh ashington. Althourh ample time has elapsed sinoe
the despatch of the Coninsioner's communications in the
other two cuses, this "opartment is informed that all that
hes been received is 1 mere acknomledgment of the letter
In regard to the PR SI   I oN seizure.
Mr. Kusama, Japanese representative on the Opium
Advisory Comnittee, was informed last autumn, orally and
informally, that inoreasin, cuantities of morphine, ap-
parently of Japanese orifin, were being found on the
Pacific Coast and were being smucgled, distributed and
peddled

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
peddled by Japanese subjects. At that time Mr. Kusama
was also informed that particulars of two seizures had
been sent to Tokyo by the Commissioner of Narcotics for
investigation. Upon receiving this information, Ar. Kusama
stated orally that he would write the Foreign Ofrice urg-
ing prompt action, thorough investigation, and prompt re-
port.
Under date of February 1, 1933, the American Ambassador
at Tokyo reported as follows:
"The Consul at Kobe has informed
the Embassy that he experiences great
diffioulty in enlisting the assistance
of the local Police authorities in trac-
ing the origin of narco tic drus which
are found from time to time by the Customs
authorities in the United States on ves-
sels arrivine from Japan. This complaint
seems to be fuirly wido-sprend.
"In view of ineso conditions, I sug-
gest that the Customs authorities com-
municate directiy with the rbassy when-
ever narcotic drugs are found which ap-
pear to be of Japanese origin. It is
suggested that labels taken from the con-
tainers or pholographic copies thereof,
as well as samples of the drugs, if pos-
sible. be sent wivh the comaunioation.
The mbassy will then take the matter up
with the Japanese Government vith a request
for proper investigation. This, in my judg-
ment, is a more satisfactory method or hand-
ling these cases.
★ * 
In the latter part of March, l93s, the Lepartment
was informed that the merican Treasury attaché in Japan
i88

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
was instructed some time last autumn, presumably by the
Commissioner of Customs, to investigate the VsNICE MARU
seizure. and possibly the one from the FRESII ENT MADISON,
independently of the direct exchange arrangement provided,
by agreement between the two governments, to cover such
cases. The Department has just received, from the Bureau
of Customs, information submitted by the Treasury Attaché
at Kobe under date of January 19, 1933, in regard to the
outcome of investigations which he, acting through the
American Consul at Kobe, requested the Osaka Police to
make in the PRESIDENT MADISON and VENICE MARU cases and
whioh had no results that would be of assistance.
The seizures from the PR.SI ENT MADISON and from the
VENICE MARU will undoubtedly come up for discussion at
the meeting of the Opium Advisory Committee in May. When
this occurs, the American representative will be obliged
to state that no report has been received from the Japanese
Go vernment on either case. It is apprehended that the
Japanese reply will probably be much the same as the state-
ment made at the Opium Advisory Committee last yeer by the
French representative in regard to cooperation with the
American Government in cases of illicit traffic in narootio
drugs. It will be recalled that the Frenoh representative
at

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
at that time stated that, although a formal arrangement
was in effect with the American Government specifying
the way in which such cases should be handled, the French
authorities never knew where they stood in American cases
because they would be addressed, in a single case, not only
by the Commissioner of Narcotics who was designated to take
up such matters, but also by several Americen Government
agencies actine independently of sach other, including the
Commissioner of Customs, American Treasury Attachés in
France and Treasury officials in New York. In disoussing
the very case in whioh the American representatives (in co-
operation with the British, Indian, Egyptian, Dutch and
German representatives) had planned at that meeting to point
out lack of effective French cooperation, the Frenoh repre-
sentative read a laudatory letter of appreciation from the
American Commissioner of Customs, who, so far as this De-
partment is informed, is not authorized to correspond
directly with the French authorities in charge of narootics
administration.
It is feared that a repetition of this embarrassing
situation can not te avoided at the coming session of the
Opium Advisory Committee and that the Japanese representa-
tive on that Committee, following the preoedent set by the
Frenoh

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
Freneh representative, will endeavor to justify the lack
of Japanese cooperation on similar grounds.
While that can not now be helped, it is considered
important to make arrangements for future handling of
requests to the Japanese Government to investigate seizures
of narcotio drugs which appear to be of Japanese origin
of a kind that will prevent such duplication and conse-
quent embarrassment to the Americen Government.
The Department las directed the American Ambassador
at Tokyo to instruct all consular officers in Japan to re-
fer to the American Embassy at Tokyo all requests of Col-
lectors of Customs for investigation of narcotics seizures.
The Embassy has also been direoted to inform this Depart-
ment of each such case and has been authorized, wi thin its
disoretion, to ask the Japanese correspondent under the
established arrangement for direot exohange of information
to investigate suoh cases and to send the data directly to
the Commissioner of Narcotics.
For many reasons, in view of conditions existing et
the present time, this Department considers it advisable
that all requests to the Japanese Government for the in-
vestigation of cases involving narcotic drugs should, for
the time being. be presented to the Japanese Foreign Office
by the American Embassy at Tokyo.
The

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.95)
-7-
It is hoped, therefore, that to this end your
Department will ask the Commissioner of Narcotics to
address to this Department his requests for suoh investi-
gations and will instruot the Treasury Attaohé at Kobe
to approaoh the Japanese authorities in narco tios cases
only through the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Under Seoretary.
Enclosure:
Tabulation showing
seizures.
21
FE:SJF:MF
U
4/18/33

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
RECD
9-6/2d
REASURY DEPARTMENT
Divigion of
WASHINGTON
TAR EASTERNAFFAIRS
6
ARR 2 5 1933
Department ef State
JA
APR 2433
Topy i FE
The Honorable,
APR 22 1933
894.114 NAR00 TI CS/76
The Secretary of State.
Sir:
Reference is made to a telephone conversation had by
your Mr. Fuller with a representative of the Bureau of
Customs of this Department on April 13, 1933, requesting
data with relation to investigation made in Japan to deter-
mine the origin of twenty-two ounces of Heroin Hydrochloride,
seized by Customs officers at Seattle on January 27, 1931,
and of other seized narcotics apparently of Japanese origin,
for use of officers of this Government who will attend a
meeting of the Opium Convention in Europe in the near future.
894.114nar
There are transmitted herewith for your information and
confidential use copies of the following reports:
Report dated September 7, l932, addressed to
the Commissioner of Customs by the office of the
Supervising Customs Agent at Seattle, Washington.
Confidential report dated January 19, 1933,
addressed to the Commissioner of Customs by the
Treaaury Attache at Kobe, Japan, with copies of
its inclosures.
By direction of the Secretary:
Respectfully,
F. A. Birgfeld, Chief Clerk
MARY
Assiotant Decretary-of the Treasury.
FILED
2
33
Inclosure No. 42987.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
(Copy)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
SPECIAL AGENCY SERVICE
U. S. CUSTOMS
SEATTLE, WASH.
September 7, 1932.
Commissioner of Customs,
(Investigative Unit),
Treasury Department,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
This communication relates to the smuggling
of so-called dangerous drugs (white stuff) from Japan
to the United States. Apparently the shipment of
drugs from Japan to the United States is on the
increase, especially since the demoralizing effect
the recent seizures in New York have had on the ship-
ment of illicit drugs from Europe.
At a recent conference in San Francisco,
California, with Mr. Anslinger, Commissioner of the
Bureau of Narcotics, he stated it was very important
to trace the illicit shipments to their manufacturing
source, as it might be possible to cause the closing
down of the factory. As this report is relevant to
such an endeavor, it is respectfully requested that a
copy of this report be furnished Mr. Anslinger.
On January 27, 1931, the office of the Customs
Agent in Seattle, Washington, made e seizure of 24 oz.
of Heroin. The contraband was in its original contain-
or with the following inscription on the wrapper -
"Japan Pharmaceutical Establishment,
Osaka, Japan."
Martin G. Scott, U. S. Treasury Attache at Kobe,
Japan, upon a request from this office, made an investi-
gation of this matter in Japan and under dates of April
2nd and l6th, 1931, reported that since the passage of
a new narcotic law dated June 7, 1930, only one fim in Osaka was
licensed to engage in the production of narcotics, namely -
"Da1 Nihon Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha,
30 Dosho-machi, 3-chome,
Higashi-ka, Osaka."

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the products of this firm bear the same inscription as on the
Azed heroin, namely - "Japan Pharmaceutical Establishment"; that
in addition, each container of narcotics disposed of by the company
bears on the outside wrapper and on the container itself, a amall
rectangular sticker on which are written identification numbers in
code; that a careful check was kept of these numbers as they indi-
cate the date of sale and the purchaser of the goods; that these
numbers are subject to check by the Police at all times; that the
sale of narcotics by this firm is supposed to be under st#tet
government supervision and only made to drug brokers who have been
certified by the government and possess a license to deal in narcotics;
that such brokers are allowed to sell only to hospitals, doctors,
licensed pharmacists, etc., who in turn must be licensed to purchase
narcotos.
Mr. Scott continued, that the Police authorities in Osaka
had promised to conduct a thorough investigation in the matter; that
they requested for this purpose, photographic copies of all labels,
otc. found on seizures in the United States; that the Japanese police
appeared to be suspicious of the Japan Pharmaceutical Chemical Labora-
tory. 390, Okayama-cho, Higashi-ku, Osaka, as this firm had in the
past been guilty of attempting to imitate the products and marks of
the Dai Nihon Company; that the Japan Pharmaceutical Chemical Labora-
tory was not supposed to manufacture narcotics since the passage of
the act of June 7. 1930.
Mr. Scott further stated uhat a visit was made by himself
to the Japan Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., 1 of 34, Koraibashi-dzume,
Higashi-ku, Osaka, where the premises appeared to be occupied solely
by the Obayashi Note-Book Manufacturing Company, though in addition
to the sign-board of the Obayashi Company there was another smaller
one with the inscription "Nippon Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha", meaning
the Japan Pharmaceutical Co.. Ltd.; that he was advised that the
building had not been used by the Pharmaceutical Company for over two
years, though their sign was left standing as a matter of courtesy;
that the said Pharmaceutical Company had been organized for the
manufacture of patent medicines some five or six years ago but had
been bankrupt for two years; that since the firms bankruptcy a Mr.
Takeo Tanaka had had a desk in the building to the beginning of 1930,
that however, such desk had been removed and Mr. Tanaka was now
employed by the Lap Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Kuize, near Amagasaki
City (Between Kobe and Osaka).
Mr. Scott states that he also visited the Japan Pharmaceut-
ical Chemical Laboratory at 390, Okayama-cho, Higashi-ku, Osaka, where
he interviewed Mr. Tsunekichi Ito,younger brother of the proprietor;
that Mr. Ito advised that they manufactured varions kinds of drugs and
patent medicines for sale exclusively in Japan, and that so far as they
knew none of their drugs were ever sold or shipped to the United States.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
On July 7, 1932, Customs officers in Seattle, Washington,
ized (ex-Japanese SS. Venice Maru) sixty tins of morphine, each tin
containing 25 ounces net, and each tin measuring 6-7/8" x 6-7/8" x 8-3/8".
Each tin was marked with the capital letter "p" in a circle, with
"Seiyaku Dai Nippon" surrounding the "p" in a circle. The tins were
sealed with a capital "p" in a circle (Japan Pharmaceutical Establishment).
Translation of the Japanese label which was pasted on each tin reveals
the address as Dosho-machi, Osaka, Japan.
One white man and three Japanese were apprehended with this
seizure, one of the Japanese defendants, who was chief stewaru on the SS
Venice Maru, was named Tadauki Ito (note - the same family name as one of
the officials of the Japan Pharmaceutical Chemical Laboratory).
Fifty-eight tins of this seizure were forwarded to the
Commissioner af Narcotics from Seattle on August 31, 1932, on which the
original wrappers are intact. An inspection of the two tins held in
Seattle reveals that rectangular stickers, referred to in paragraph four
of this report, had been placed on the outside wrappers but had been
defaced to such an extent that no numbers are decipherable. Accordingly
the following wire was dispatched this date to the Bureau:
"Please request Narcotic Bureau check fifty eight cans of morphine
shipped from Collector Seattle August thirty first to Narcotic
Commissioner for identifying numbers in rectangular square below
inscription muriate of morphia P J four and advise whether or not
decipherable Stop this number according to Japanese regulations
identifie purehaser from factory Stop numbers on two cans held
here defaced and undecipherable. Signed Hanks"
It is believed that a microscopic inspection may assist in deter-
mining the identifying numbers.
In view of the fact that the marks on the packages so closely
follow the description of the product of the - "Dai Nihon Seiyaku Kabushiki
Kaisha". also that rectamgular stickers had been originally placed on the
packages, indicates that the seizure originated at this factory. However,
since the Japanese Police suspect the Japan Pharmaceutical Chemical
Laboratory of imitating the products and marks of the Dai Nihon Seiyaku
Kabushiki Kaisha", it may be possible that this firm is manufacturing
narcotics in violation of Japanese regulations.
Photographs of the labels and markings on the two cans
held in Seattle, are being forwarded to the Treasury Attache at Kobe,
Japan, for checking with the Osaka Police.
An investigation is now being conducted by this office
of the United States end of this ring, which to date shows considerable

=== Page 134 === (confidence 1.00)
romise. The Bureau will be kept advised of all further developments.
Respectfully,
(Signed) Melvin L. Hmks
MELVIN L. HANKS,
Customs Agent at Large.
Respectfully forwarded,
Approved:
(Signed) A. B. Hamer
A. B. HAMER,
Actg. Supervising Customs Agent.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
(Copy)
UNITED STATES TREASURY DEPARTMENT
AMERICAN CONSULATE
KOBE, JAPAN
January 19, 1933.
The Commissioner of Customs,
Investigative Unit,
Treasury Department,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
Reference is respectfully made to letter of September ?,
1952, - file 14-46, - from Customs Agent at Large Melvin L.
Hanks, Seattle, to the Commissioner of Customs, re the seizure
on the Japanese steamship Venice Maru of sixty tins of morphine,
each tin containing 25 ounces net, and each measuring 6-7/8"
I 8-3/8", all marked and stated to be manufactured by the Japan
Pharmaceutical Establishment, Osaka. Mr. Hanks advises:
"Photographs of the labels and markings on the
two cans held in Seattle, are being forwarded
to the Treasury Attache at Kobe, Japan, for
checking with the Osaka Police."
Prior to the receipt of this canmunication, we were requested
by Mr. E. L. Matteson, General Agent of the Dollar Steamship Line,
Kobe, to assist in tracing the sale of fourteen bottles of morphine
hydrochloride found on the President Madison on her arrival at
Seattle August 9, l932. Labels were forwarded which were removed from
the seized bottles. A translation of these labels showed the morphine
to have been made by the Osaka Hygienic Labaratory. Osaka. The labels
also bore the serial number prescribed by the Japanese narcotic law.
The matter thus seemed quite easy to trace.
On October 8, 1932, through the American Consul, Kobe, request
was made of the Osaka police to trace this transaction. Request on
the letter of Customs Agent Hanks was withheld, pending a reply to this
first request.
In spite of the fact that strict Japanese supervision, as provided
in the Japanese Narcotic Law, is exercised by the police, rendering
the tracing of this transaction a routine matter only, nothing was
done by the police. The Consul's letter was not even replied to.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
On January 6, 1933, the writer then requested Consul Howard
Donovan to bring to the attention of the Osaka police the seizure
on the Venice Maru.
On January 10, 1933, Vice Consul Edmund J. Dorsz visited Osaka
and conferred with Mr. S. Mivata and Mr. Mori, Chief and Vice Chief,
respectively, of the Osaka Prefectural Police. A copy of Mr. Dorsz's
report of this interview is attached hereto.
Regarding the seizure on the President Madison, the police ad-
vised that the morphine was manufactured by the "Osaka Hygienic
Laboratory" which information, of course, we already possessed. They
also state that the sale "had been accounted for to the satisfaction
of the police by the persons to whom they were sold." Apparently the
fact that certain of these bottles were seized by United States Customs
authorities does not detract from the satisfaction of the Osaka police
as regards the integrity of the parties handling this narcotic.
As regards the seizure on the Venice Maru, the police advised
that they could do nothing without a sample of the morphine or a
label. The situation seems to be that unless labels are furnished
the police can do nothing, and if they are furnished they only serve
to confirm the police in their satisfaction of the integrity of the
parties concerned.
As a matter of fact the labels referred to by Customs Agent
Hanks, in his letter of September 7th, were not received by this
office. As far as securing results goes, it doesn't make a particle
of difference whether or not they were forwarded. The statements
of the Osaka police are all buncombe. The Japanese narcotic laws are
very strict in requiring the registration of all particulars
accompanying all narcotic sales. Add to that the fact that the
Japanese police exercise very strict supervision over every action
of a Japanese subject anyway. Add to that the fact that in one
instance they had actual labels to work on, and in the other the name
of the manufacturer, it will be seen how absurd their explanation
that they were unable to do anything.
I am attaching herewith copy of letter from Consul Howard
Donovan, dated January 12, 1933. It is not ed that Mr. Donovan
states that "In future such cases will be referred the Embassy."
Mr. Donovan believes that nothing is to be gained under present
conditions by negotiating with the Osaka police authorities. In
this opinion, this office heartily concurs.
On previous occasinns, this office had had occasion to solicit
the assistance of the Osaka police in narcotic matters. The sum

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
total of their assistance to date has been a perfect blank, and may
be expeeted to be so unless or until some pressure may be brought upon
these gentlemen to do something besides furnish character certificates
for parties engaged in the narcotic traffic. This pressure can only
be exerted diplomatically through the State Department. It is of
course not within the purview of this office to suggest what should
be done.
It is the opinion of this office, however, that the situation
may be more serious than it appears. Unquestionably, Osaka is an
impertant center for the manufacture and sale of narcotics. Due to
the lack of any reliable published official infomation, it is
difficult to say just how important it is. Now, if the police of this
important narcotic center are disposed to look with a tolerent eye,
if it be no worse than that, on matters as they exist, it requires
no stretch of the imagination to visualize Osaka as an important
problem in the smuggling of narcotics into the United States.
In conclusion, it is our opinion that it is uodless to
forward this office any requests for information on this subject.
This office is in no position to accomplish any unoer-cover work.
With the strict police surveillance that exists, any attempt to do
so would only have the most unpleasant reactions. We can therefore
only rely on the assistance of the local police. As long as this
is refused, we are helpless.
Respectfully,
(Signed) Martin G. Scott
Treasury Attache.
Copies:
Department (2)
Customs Agent Hanks (1)

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
(Copy)
CONFIDENTIAL
American Consulate, Kobe, Japan, January 12, 1933.
Martin G. Scott, Esquire,
United States Treasury Attache,
Kobe, Japan.
Sir:
I wish to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of January
6, 195s, regarding sixty tins of morphine seized at Seattle on the
Japanese S.S. VENICE MARU on July 7, 1932. Reference is also made to
your memorandum of October 8, l932, regarding fourteen bottles of morphine
found on board the American S.S. PRESIDENT MADISON at Seattle on August
9, 1952.
Your attention is invited to the attached copy of a memorandum
submitted by Vice Consul Dorsz which summaries the results of his inter-
view on the subject with the Osaka police. Both cases have, and will
continue to be, dealt with by the Osaka police in their usual farcial
manner. The police could, if they wished, ascertain very easily who
sold the morphine to the person or persons on the Venice Maru and on
the President Madison but it is obvious that they will not make any effort
to do so. In future such cases will be referred to the Embassy as
suggested by the Ambassador in his letter of December 28, 1932.
A copy of this letter, with enclosures, vill be forwarded to the
American Consul General at Tokyo for transmission to the Embassy at
his discretion.
Respectfully yours,
(Signed) Howard Donovan
American Consul.
Enclosures:
Memorandum submitted by
Vice Consul Dorsz.
Label taken from bottle of morphine,
S. S. President Madison, Aug. 9, 1932.
Memorandum from Osaka police, S. S. President
Madison, morphine, Aug. 9, 182.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
(COPY)
Kobe, Japan, January 11, 1933.
andum of interview between Vice Consul Dorss and Mr. S. Miyata and
o1, Chief and Vice Chief, respectively, of the Osaka Prefectural
mont on January 10. 1933. Mr. Suzuki of the Consulate acted as
rpreter.
Mr. Miyata appeared to understand English perfectly but he apparently
preforred reply in Japanese thus requiring the services of Mr. Suzuki in
translating which at best is very ineffective.
From the beginning of the interview it appeared to me that little
success would be had in obtaining information relating to the possible
apprehension of the persons involved in the shipment of the l4 bottles of
morphine hydrochloride which were found on the S. S. PRESIDENT MADISON
when it docked at Seattle, Washington, on August 9, l932.
Mr. Miyata informed me that the Consulate's letters of October 15,
November 12, and December 9, 1932, had not been answered because the Japanese
police had not completed their investigation, and expressed his regret in the
matter by stating that the year end activities had kept the police busy with
other poobloms.
He stated that the police had discovered that 50 bottles of Morphine
Hydrochloride having the same license number as that on the label forwarded
on Oetober 15, 1oe, by this Consulate to the Osaka Prefectural Government
had been sold in the City of Osake and that all 50 bottles had been accounted
for to the satisfaction of the police by the persons to whom they were sold.
He continued by stating that the police had not completed their investigation
in regard to the number of bottles heving the same license number which had
been sold outside of Osaka Prefecture. When such investigation is completed,
he promised to inform this Consulate of the results.
When requested for information regarding the number of bottles manufactured
under the same number as that of the label and for other information concerning
the amount of narcotics which firms having licenses could manufacture yearly,
he evaded my questions by repeating his former statements regarding the 50
bottles discovered by the police in Osaka Prefecture.
With regard to the 60 tins of morphine found on the VENICE MARU when it
arrived at Seattle, Washington, on July 7, 1932, Mr. Miyata stated that the
police could not effectively continue an investigation of this case with the
view of apprehending the persons involved in the smuggling of such narcotics
unless either some of the morphine or a label from one of the tins were
forwarded to the Osaka Prefectural Government.
When it became obvious that the interview was unsuccessful, I let Mr.
Miyata and Mr. Mori continue their remarks until they decided to end the
disoussion. I tmanked them, together and separately, for their courtesy in

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
anting me the interview and for the assistance which the police had
ven in the matter.
A copy of the memorandum giving the names and addresses of persons in
Osaka Prefecture to whom the 50 bottles of Morphine Hydrochloride having
license number 5525, the same number as that on the label which was
attached to one of the 14 bottles found on the S. S. PRESIDENT MADISON when
it docked at Seattle, Washington, on August 9, 1932, was returned to me by
Mr. Miyata, and is attached hereto.
The label forwarded by this Consulate to the Osaka police on October
15, 1932, was also returned.
(Signed)
Edmond J. Dorsz,
American Vice Consul.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
(TRANSLATION)
1. Seller: Usaburo Moriahita (Nippon Yakuhin Yoko),
26 Fushimi-machi 3-chome, Higashi-m,
Osaka.
2. Drug:
Hydorchloric Morphine (5 grams per bottle).
3. Date on which bottled: July 8, 1932 at the Osaka
Hygienic Laboratory.
4. .Serial number: 5525.
5. Purchasers within the jurisdiction of this Prefectural
Government:
Date on which
purchased
Quantity
Address
Name
July 8, 1932
10
Umegae-cho, Kita-ku,
Hatsunojo Okabe
Osaka-shi.
July 9, 1932
1
Dotonbori-dori
Kakitomo Yoshioka
4-chome, Nishi-ku,
Osaka-shi.
July 9, 1932
25
Itaohibori-dori
Shinichi Koizumi
4-chome, Nishi-ku,
Osaka-shi.
July 12, 1932
5
Dosho-machi 2-chome,
Harumoto Honten
Higashi-ku, Osaka-shi.
July 14, 1952
5
Dojima-kam1 2-chome,
Iwakichi Takahashi
Kita-ku, Osaka-shi.
July 14, 1932
1
Andoji-machi 2-chome,
Shotaro Kawabata
Minami-ku, Osaka-shi.
July 14, 1952
3
Suita-cho, Mishima-
Zenji Taujita
gun, Osaka-fu.
Total
50

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
(Copy)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT .
SPECIAL AGENCY SERVICE
U. S. CUSTOMS
SEATTLE, WASH.
September 7, 1932.
Commissioner of Customs,
(Investigative Unit),
Treasury Department,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
This communication relates to the smuggling
of so-called dangerous drugs (white stuff) from Japan
to the United States. Apparently the shipment of
drugs from Japan to the United States is on the
increase, especially since the demoralizing effect
the recent seizures in New York have had on the ship-
ment of illicit drugs from Europe.
At a recent conference in San Francisco,
California, with Mr. Anslinger, Commissioner of the
Bureau of Narcotics, he stated it was very important
to trace the illicit shipments to their manufacturing
seuree, as it might be possible to cause the closing
dom of the factory. As this report is relevant to
such an endeavor, it is respectfully requested that a
copy of this report be furnished Mr. Anslinger.
On January 27, 1931, the office of the Customs
Agent in Seattle, Washington, made a seizure of 24 oz.
of Heroin. The contraband was in its original contain-
er with the following inscription on the wrapper -
"Japan Pharmaceutical Establishment,
Osaka, Japan."
Martin G. Scott, U. S. Treasury Attache at Kobe,
Japan, upon a request from this office, made an investi-
gation of this matter in Japan and under dates of April
2nd and l6th, 1931, reported that since the passage of
a new narcotic law dated June 7, 1930, only one fim in Osaka was
licensed to engage in the production of narcotics, namely -
"Dai Nihon Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha,
30 Dosho-machi, 3-chome,
Higashi-ka, Osaka."

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
the products of this firm bear the same inscription as on the
med heroin, namely - "Japan Pharmaeeutical Establishment"; that
in addition, each container of narcotics disposed of by the company
bears on the outside wrapper and on the container itself, a small
restengular sticker on which are written identification numbers in
code; that a careful check was kept of these numbers as they indi-
oate the date of sale and the purchaser of the goods; that these
mimbers are subject to check by the Police at all times; that the
sele of narcotics by this firm is supposed to be under st#iet
government supervision and only made to drug brokers who have been
certified by the government and possess a license to deal in narcotics;
that such brokers are allowed to sell only to hospitals, doctors,
licensed pharmacists, etc., who in turn must be licensed to purchase
sarootees.
Mr. Scott continued,. that the Police authorities in Osaka
had promised to conduct a thorough investigation in the matter; that
they requested for this purpose, photographic copies of all labels,
te. fpund on seizures in the United States; that the Japanese police
appeared to be suspicious of the Japan Pharmaceutical Chemical Labora-
tory, 390, Okayama-cho, Higashi-ku, Osaka, as this firm had in the
past been guilty of attempting to imitate the products and marks of
the Dai Nihon Company; that the Japan Pharmaceutical Chemical Labora-
tory was not supposed to manufacture narcotics since the passage of
the act of June 7, 1930.
Mr. Scott further stated that a visit was made by himself
to the Japan Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., 1 of 34, Koraibashi-dzume,
Higashi-ku, Osaka, where the premises appeared to be occupied solely
by the Obayashi Note-Book Manufacturing Company, though in addition
to the sign-board of the Obayashi Company there was another smaller
one with the inseription "Nippon Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha", meaning
the Japan Pharmaceutioal Co., Ltd.; that he was advised that the
building had not been used by the Pharmaceutical Company for over two
years, though their sign was left standing as a matter of courtesy;
that the said Pharmaceutical Company had been organized for the
manufacture of patent medicines some five or six years ago but had
been bankrupt for two years; that since the firms bankruptcy a Mr.
28
that however, such desk had been removed and Mr. Tanaka was now
mployed by the Lap Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Kuize, near Amagasaki
City (Between Kobe and Osaka).
Mr. Scott states that he also visited the Japan Pharmaceut-
ical Chemical Laboratory at 390, Okayama-cho, Higashi-ku, Osaka, where
he interviewed Mr. Tsunekichi Ito,younger brother of the proprietor;
that Mr. Ito advised that they manufactured various kinds of drugs and
patent medicines for sale exclusively in Japan, and that so far as they
knew none of their drugs were ever sold or shipped to the United States.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
On July 7, 1932, Customs officers in Seattle, Washington,
ad (ex-Japanese SS. Venice Maru) sixty tins of morphine, each tin
aining 25 ounces net, and each tin measuring 6-7/8" x 6-7/8" x 8-3/8".
th tin was marked with the capital letter "p" in a circle, with
"soiyaku Dai Nippon" surrounding the "p" in a circle. The tins were
sealed with a capital "p" in a circle (Japan Pharmaceutical Establishment).
Translation of the Japanese label which was pasted on each tin reveals
the address as Dosho-machi, Osaka, Japan.
One white man and three Japanese were apprehended with this
seizure, one of the Japanese defendants, who was chief steward on the SS
Venice Maru, was named Tadauki Ito (note - the same family name as one of
the officials of the Japan Pharmaceutical Chemical Laboratory).
Fifty-eight tins of this seizure were forwarded to the
Commissioner af Narcotics from Seattle on August 31, 1932, on which the
original wrappers are intact. An inspection of the two tins held in
Seattle reveals that rectangular stickers, referred to in paragraph four
of this report, had been placed on the outside wrappers but had been
defaced to such an extent that no numbers are decipherable. Accordingly
the following wire was dispatched this date to the Bureau:
"Please request Narcotic Bureau check fifty eight cans of morphine
shipped from Collector Seat le August thirty first to Narcotic
Commissioner for identifying numbers in rectangular square below
insoription muriate of morphia P J four and advise whether or not
decipherable Stop this mumber according to Japanese regulations
identifies purchaser from factory Stop numbers on two cans held
hore defaced and undecipherable. Signed Hanks"
It is believed that a microscopic inspection may assist in deter-
mining the identifying numbers.
In view of the fact that the marks on the packages so closely
follow the description of the product of the - "Dai Nihon Seiyaku Kabushiki
Kaisha", also that rectamular stickers had been originally placed on the
packages, indicates that the seizure originated at this factory. However,
since the Japanese Police suspect the Japan Pharmaceutical Chemical
Laboretory of imitating the products and marks of the Dai Nihon Seiyaku
Kabushiki Kaisha", it may be possible that this firm is manufacturing
narcoties in violation of Japanese regulations.
Photographs of the labels and markings on the two cans
held in Seattle, are being forwarded to the Treasury Attache at Kobe,
Japan, for checking with the Osake Police.
An investigation is now being conducted by this office
of the United States end of this ring, which to date shows considerable

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
ise. The Bureau will be kept advised of all further developments.
Respectfully.
(Signed) Melvin L. Han ks
MELVIN L. HANKS,
Customs Agent at Large.
Respectfully forwarded,.
Approved:
(Sigmed) A. B. Hamer
A. B. HAMER.
Actg. Supervising Customs Agent.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
(Copy)
UNTTED STATES TREASURY DEPARTMENT
AMERICAN CONSULATE
KOBE, JAPAN
January 19, 1933.
The Commissioner of Customs,
Investigative Unit,
Treasury Department,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
Reference is respectfully made to letter of September 7,
1932, - file 14-46, - from Customs Agent at Large Melvin L.
Hanks, Seattle, to the Commissioner of Customs, re the seizure
on the Japanese steamship Venice Maru of sixty tins of morphine,
each tin containing 25 ounces net, and each measuring 6-7/8"
x 8-3/8", all marked and stated to be manufactured by the Japan
Pharmaceutioal Establishment, Osaka. Mr. Hanks advises:
"Photographs of the labels and markings on the
two cans held in Seattle, are being forwarded
to the Treasury Attache at Kobe, Japan, for
checking with the Osaka Police."
Prior to the receipt of this canmunication, we were requested
by Mr. E. L. Matteson, General Agent of the Dollar Steamship Line,
Kobe, to assist in tracing the sale of fourteen bottles of morphine
hydrochloride found on the President Madison on her arrival at
Seattle August 9, l932. Labels were forwarded which were removed from
the seized bottles. A translation of these labels showed the morphine
to have been made by the Osaka Hygienic Labaratory, Osaka. The labels
also bore the serial number prescribed by the Japanese narcotic law.
The matter thus seemed quite easy to trace.
On October 8, 1932, through the American Consul, Kobe, request
was made of the Osaka police to trace this transaction. Request on
the letter af Customs Agent Hanks was withheld, pending a reply to this
first request.
In spite of the fact that strict Japanese supervision, as provided
in the Japanese Narcotic Law, is exercised by the police, rendering
the tracing of this transaction a routine matter only, nothing was
done by the police. The Consul's letter was not even replied to.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
On January 6, 1933, the writer then requested Consul Howard
novan to bring to the attention of the Osaka police the seizure
on the Venice Maru.
On January 10, 1933, Vice Consul Edmund J. Dorsz visited Osaka
and conferred with Mr. S. Mivata and Mr. Morl, Chief and Vice Chief,
respectively, of the Osaka Prefectural Police. A copy of Mr. Dorsz's
report of this interview is attached herato.
Regarding the seizure on the President Madison, the police ad-
vised that the morphine was manufactured by the "Osaka Hygienic
Laboratory" which information, of course, we already possessed. They
also state that the sale "had been accounted for to the satisfaction
of the police by the persons to whom they were sold." Apparently the
fact that certain of these bottles were seized by United States Customs
authorities does not detract from the satisfaction of the Osaka police
as regards the integrity of the parties handling this narcotic.
As regards the seizure on the Venice Maru, the police advised
that they could do nothing without a sample of the morphine or a
label. The situation seems to be that unless labels are furnished
the police can do nothing, and if they are furnished they only serve
to confirm the police in their satisfaction of the integrity of the
partiesconcerned.
As a matter of fact the labels referred to by Customs Agent
Hanks, in his letter of September 7th, were not received by this
office. As far as securing results goes, it doesn't make a particle
of difference whether or not they were forwarded. The statements
of the Osake police are all buncombe. The Japanese narcotic laws are
very strict in requiring the registration of all particulars
accompanying all narcotic sales. Add to that the fact that the
Japanese police exercise very strict supervision over every action
of a Japanese subject anywey. Add to that the fact that in one
instance they had actual labels to work on, and in the other the name
of the manufacturer, it will be seet how absurd their explanation
that they were unable to do anything.
I am attaching herewith copy of letter from Consul Howard
Donovan, dated January 12, 1933. It is not ed that Mr. Donovan
states that "In future such cases will be referred the Embassy."
Mr. Donovan believes that nothine is to be gained under present
conditions by negotiating with the Osaka police authorities. In
this opinion, this office heartily concurs.
On previous occasinns, this office had had occasion to solicit
the assistance of the Osaka police in narcotic matters. The sum

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
total of their assistance to date has been a perfect blank, and may
be expected to be so unless or until some pressure may be brought upon
these gentlemen to do something besides furnish character certificates
for parties engaged in the narcotic traffic. This pressure can only
be exerted diplomatically through the State Department. It is of
course not within the purview of this office to suggest what should
be done.
It is the opinion of this office, however, that the situation
may be more serious than it appears. Unquestionably, Osaka is an
important center for the manufacture and sale of narcotics. Due to
the lack of eny reliable published official infomation, it is
difficult to say just how important it is. Now, if the police of this
important narcotic center are disposed to look with a tolerent eye,
if it be no worse than that, on matters as they exist, it requires
no stretch of the imagination to visualize Osaka as an important
problem in the smuggling of narcotics into the United States.
In conclusion, it is our opinion that it is useless to
forward this office any requests for information on this subject.
This office is in no position to accomplish any under-cover work.
With the strict police surveillance that exists, any attempt to do
so would only have the most unpleasant reactions. We can therefore
only rely on the assistance of the local police. As long as this
is refused, we are helpless.
Respectfully,
(Signed) Martin G. Scott
Treasury Attache.
Copies:
Department (2)
Customs Agent Hanks (1)

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
(Copy)
CONFIDENTIAL
American Consulate, Kobe, Japan, January 12, 1933.
Martin G. Soott, Esquire,
United States Treasury Attache,
Kobe, Japan.
Sir:
I wish to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of January
6, 1983, regarding sixty tins of morphine seized at Seattle on the
Japmose S.S. VENICE MARU on July 7, 1932. Reference is also made to
your memorandum of October 8, l932, regarding fourteen bottles of morphine
found on board the American S.S. PRESIDENT MADISON at Seattle on August
9, 1932.
Your attention is invited to the attached copy of a mejorandum
submitted by Vice Consul Dorsz which summaries the results of his inter-
viow on the subject with the Osaka police. Both cases have, and will
continue to be, dealt with by the Osaka police in their usual farcial
mmmer. The police could, if they wished, ascertain very easily who
sold the morphine to the person or persons on the Venice Maru and on
the President Madison but it is obvious that they will not make any effort
to do so. In future such cases will be referred to the Embassy as
suggested by the Ambassador in his letter of December 28, 1932.
A copy of this letter, with enclosures, will be forwarded to the
American Consul General at Tokyo for transmission to the Embassy at
his discretion.
Respectfully yours,
(Signed) Howard Donovan
American Consul.
Enclosures:
Memorandum submitted by
Vice Consul Dorsz.
Label taken from bottle of morphine,
S. S. President Madison, Aug. 9, 1932.
Memorandum from Osaka police, S. S. President
Madison, morphine, Aug. 9, 1932.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
(COPY)
Kobe, Japan, January 11, 1933.
of interview between Vice Consul Dorss and Mr. S. Miyata and
Chief and Vice Chief, respectively, of the Osaka Prefectural
at on January 10, 1933. Mr. Suzuki of the Consulate acted as
rproter.
. Miyata appeared to understand English perfectly but he apparently
red reply in Japanese thus requiring the services of Mr. Suzuki in
ting wmich at best is very ineffective.
 the beginning of the interview it appeared to me that little
suecens would be had in obtaining information relating to the possible
approhonsfon of the peraons involved in the shipment of the l4 bottles of
morpmine hydrochloride which were found on the S. S. PRESIDENT MADISON
when it docked at Seattle, Washington, on August 9, 1932.
Mr. Miyata informed me that the Consulate's letters of October 15,
November 18, and December 9, 1932, had not been answered because the Japanese
police had not completed their investigation, and expressed his regret in the
mmtter by stating that the year end activities had kept the police busy with
other phobloms.
Ho stated that the police had discovered that 50 bottles of Morphine
Hydrochloride having the same license number as that on the label forwarded
on Ootober 15, se, by this Consulate to the Osaka Prefectural Government
had heem sold in the City of Osaka and that all 50 bottles had been accounted
for to the satisfaotion of the police by the persons to whom they were sold.
Ho eontinued by stating that the police had not completed their investigation
in regard to the number of bottles having the same license number which had
beon sold outside of Osaka Prefecture. When such investigation is completed,
ho promised to inform this Consulate of the results.
When requested for information regarding the number of bottles manufactured
the amount of narcotics which firms having licenses could manufacture yearly,
he evaded my questions by repeating his former statements regarding the 50
bottles discovered by the police in Osaka Prefecture.
With rogard to the 60 tins of morphine found on the VENICE MARU when it
arrived at Seattle, Washington, on July 7, 1932, Mr. Miyata stated that the
police could not effectively continue an investigation of this case with the
view of apprehending the persons involved in the smuggling of such narcotics
unless either some of the morphine or a label from one of the tins were
forwarded to the Osaka Prefectural Government.
When it became obvious that the interview was unsuccessful, I let Mr.
Miyata and Mr. Mori continue their remarks until they decided to end the
diseussion. I tmanked them, together and separately, for their courtesy in

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
ing me the interview and for the assistance which the police had
in the matter.
A copy of the memorandum giving the names and addresses of persons in
Cmikm Prefecture to whom the 50 bottles of Morphine Hydrochloride having
lieense number 5525, the same number as that on the label which was
taehed to one of the 14 bottles found on the S. S. PRESIDENT MADISON when
doeked at Seattle, Washington, on August 9, 1932, was returned to me by
Miyata, and is attached hereto.
The label forwarded by this Consulate to the Osaka police on October
16, 1952, was als0 returned.
(Signed)
Edmond J. Dorsz,
American Vice Consul.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
(TRANSLATION)
1. Seller: Usaburo Morishite (Nippon Yakuhin Yoko),
26 Fushimi-machi 3-chome, Higashi-ka,
Osaka.
2. Drug:
Hydorchloric Morphine (5 grams per bottle).
3. Date on which bottled: July 8, 1932 at the Osaka
Hygienic Laboratory.
4. Sorial number: 5525.
5. Purchasers within the jurisdiction of this Prefectural
Government:
Date on which
purchased
Quantity
Address
Name
July 8, 1932
10
Umegae-cho, Kita-ku,
Hatsunojo Okabe
Osaka-shi.
Kakitomo Yoshioka
July 9, 1932
1
Dotonbori-dori
4-chome, Nishi-ku,
Osaka-shi.
July 9, 1932
25
Itachibori-dori
Shinichi Koizumi
4-chome, Nishi-ku,
Osaka-shi.
July 12, 1932
5
Dosho-machi 2-chome,
Harumoto Honten
Higashi-ku, Osaka-shi.
July 14, 1932
5
Dojima-kami 2-chome,
Iwakichi Takahashi
Kita-ku, Osaka-shi.
July 14, 1932
1
Andoji-machi 2-chome,
Shotaro Kawabata
Minami-ku, Osaka-shi.
July 14, 1952
3
Suita-cho, Mishima-
Zenji Tsujita
gun, Osaka-fu.
Total
50

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.94)
F
PM RECD
REASURY DEPARTMENT
10
WASHINGTON
May 18, 1933.
Telegran
drafttd to
MAY 20 33
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
Division of
A
Joklyo,
may 22,1923
The Honorable
SmuF
894.114 NARCOT1CS/77
The Secretary of State.
Sir:
Receipt is acknowledged of your confidential letter of
April 18, 1933, your file FE 894.114 Narcotics/, regarding investiga-
tions in Japan of matters relating to the smuggling into the United
States of narcotic drugs of Japanese manufacture.
You state that, for many reasons, in view of conditions
existing at the present time, your Department considers it advisable
that all requests to the Japanese Government for the investigation of
cases involving narcotic drugs should, for the time being, be presented
to the Japanese Foreign Office by the American Embassy at Tokyo.
I have to advise that, while this Department has ample
facilities and qualified personnel in the office of the Treasury Attache
at Kobe to conduct such investigations, in view of your statement that
conditions existing at the present time make it advisable that requests
to the Japanese Government for narcotic investigations should be presented
to the Japanese Foreign Office by the American Embassy at Tokyo, this
Department is willing to acquiesce, for the time being, in the plan you
suggest and is appropriately instructing its officials.
By direction of the Secretary:
Respectfully,
h W Robert
Assistant Secretary.
AUG ?
FILED
3
33

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.95)
1-138
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE THANSMITYED
PREPARING OFFICE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TONTDNHEUDE
Collect
X
Department of State
-PTAN
Confidential
Washington,
Y-224:15
Code
This cable was sent in conficertial Coce.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
It shoulc be carefully parapnrased baure
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS & RECORED
being communcac to anyone.
BH
May 22, 1933.
AMEMBASSY,
894.
TOKYO (JAPAN).
Your 69, March 30, 3 p.m.
stotes thatitis
Treasury Department by letter dated May 18 
instruct  its officials in Japan to take up narcotic
NARCOTICS/78
drug cases through the Embassy only.
Pending further instructions you should present
such cases to the Japanese Foreign Office for investigation.
HulE
FE:ELI: EMF
FE
y. m.fd.
894.114 Narcotics/
May.22,1860r4
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
19
Index Bu.-No. .
1-138

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
894.114 NARCOTiCS/79
Confidential File

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.
.114 NARCOTICS/
800.114 N 16 Shifman, Philippe/28
Despatch #318
SEE
FOR
Tientsin
Lockhart
May 8, 1933
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Local heroin trade, wich has reached extraordinary
proportions, is now largely in the hands of
Japanese manufacturers and primary distributors.
It is believed that Japanese traffickers have paid
80
particular attention to production of heroin during
past four years, and that Japanese experts on the
production have established themselves in North China,
and are able to produce the drug at a very low price
as compared to Europe.
h

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.
.114 NAR0 TICS/81
SEE 811.114 N 16 Se1zures/863
Tel/128 noon
FOR
FROM
Gapan
Grew
--) DATED
July 20;1933
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Arrest of Tatsujiro Kawahara in Japan. Sugimoto of the
CHICHIBU MARU also implicated.
ja
t

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.98)
FE
PM RECD
90956
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
August 23 1988
WASHINGTON
to Theasy,
231933
AUG 8 1933
AUG 9 53
ptvlagon of
The Honorable,
FAR EASTORN AFFAIRS
AG1933
The Secretary of State.
Department at State
Sir:
894.114 NAR0 TICS
7s~ Reference is made to your confidential letter of April
18, 1933, your file FÉ 894.l14 Narcotics/, and the Department's
reply thereto of Mey/18%/1933, relative to enlistment of the
assistance of Japanese officials in investigations relating
to smuggling of narcotics into the United States which are
apparently of Japanese origin.
The Department's records show that the Bureau of Customs
was not aware or advised of the arrangement, referred to in
the third paragraph of your communication, for direct exchange
between the respective heads of narcotics enforcement in the
two countries of data relating to narcotic smuggling in con-
nection with which requests for investigation and report are
made.
The Customs Service of this Department is primarily re-
/82
sponsible for and charged with the prevention of smuggling of
narcotics and all other merchandise into the United States.
The activities of the Narcotic Service, the second line of
defense against narcotic smuggling, parallel, to some extent,
the activities of the Customs Service.
In order that the Customs Service and the Narcotic Service
of this Department may each be fully advised, I would appreciate
it if you will address all fomal or confidential letters or
memoranda, regarding narcotic smuggling or its control, to this
Department in duplicate, one marked for the attention of the
AUG 94 1933
Commissioner of Customs and the other marked for the attention
of the Commissioner of Narcotics. This plan accords with the
FILED
practice now followed with respect to liquor smuggling data
submitted for the attention of the Commissioner of Customs and
the Commandant of the Coast Guard.
By direction of the Secretary:
Respectfully,
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.93)
2193
In reply refer to
0
FE 894.114 Naroot1cs/82
For the personal attention of
Assistant Secretary Gibbons.
The Honorable
C0
The Seoretary of the Treasury.
0
4
Sir:
I have for aoknowledgment the Treasury Depart-
4
ment's letter of August 8, 1933, in which reference
NAR
is made to this Departmont's letter dated April 18,
1933, and to the Treasury Department's letter of
COTICS
May 18, 1933, in reply thereto, regarding the coopera-
tion with Japanese ofrioials in investigations relating
to the smuggliug of nurootic drugs, apparently of
0
Japanese origin, into the United States.
3
with reference to the second paragraph of the
Treasury Departmont's letter under ucknowledgment stat-
ing that the records of the Treasury Department show
that the Bureau of Customs was not aware or advised
of the arrangement for direot exchange, between the re-
speotive heads of narcotios enforcement, of data rela-
tive to narootics smugcling, you are informed that this
arrangement

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.94)
at was made upon the muggestion of the
y Department contained in a letter to this
800.114n162y./0
tment, dated November 14, 1927 (Reference: Foreign
d1).
69
By * letter, dated July14, 1928, the Treasury
Departeent was duly informed of the conolusion with
She Japanese Goverament of the arrangement referred to
am, in e letter to the Treasury Department, dated
1123
Maruary 21. 1929, there was enclosed a copy of a state-
mot to the press, dated February 15, 1929, on this sub-
jost. This statement contained the text of the corres-
pememnee constituting this agreement for the informal
direst exehange, between narcotios enforcement officers
of this Government and of Japan, of information regard-
ing the illieit taffic in narootic drugs.
Referemce is made to this Department's letter,
aated April 18, 1933, in regard to the duties mmde
imcumbent on the spesial narcotios administration pre-
seribed by the Nareoties Limitation Convention of 1931
im appiying the specific provisions of that Convention;
and is is suggested that a conference be arranged between
the apprepriate officials of the Treasury Department
and the official of the Department of State sharged with

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
the bandling of nar otics matters to discuss mays and
means of perfecting liaison between the two Departments
in matters relating to narcotics.
Should the Treasury Department concur in this sug-
gestion, the Lepartment of State will appreciate being
informed as to the umes of the offioials who are desig-
nated to confer with r. Stuart J. Fuller, Assistant
Chief of the Division of Far Eastern Affairs, on this
subject and as to the time and place of the conference.
Very truly yours,
Acting Seoretary of State.
Aug.86 100
F:LI
3/23/33
FR:SJF:

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.94)
10..347
To the American Ambassador,
R
Tokyo.
The Bearetary of State refers to the Departmnt's
telegrame to the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo, Hos. 30 and
78
62. dated March 27, 1933, 5 p.m., and May 22, 1933.
8
6
4 p.m., respectively, and to the Embassy's telegram
4
o. 69. dated March 30, 1933, 3 p.m., in regard to the
arrangement for transmitting to the Japanese authorities,
4
throagh the American Embassy at Tokyo, requests made by
NARCOTICS
the Ameriem authorities for information in connection
with nareotics seizure cases.
There is enelosed herewith for the Embasgy 's in-
formation a oopy of a letter, dated Mareh 28, 1933, ad-
dressed by the Commissioner of Narcotios to the Director
8
of the Burean of Treat ies and Conventions, Department of
Foreign Affairs, Tokyo, together with a reply thereto,
dated June 9. 1933, and a copy of another letter from the
Treasury Department, dated August 4, 1933, with enolosure,
in regard to seizures of narootio drugs believed to be of
Japanese origin.
As the inquiry made by the Director of the Burean of
Treaties and Conventions involved only a minor detail
the Department interposed no objection to a direct reply
by the Commissioner of Narootics in the present instance.
AUG 26.1088
C1.
Emelosures:
A truu copy of
the sid orig
From Commissioner of Earcotics,
Maroh 28, 1933;
Reply thareto, June 9, 1933;
From Treasary Depertment, August 4. 1933, w1th enalosure.
894.114 Mareot1os/
FE:ELI:EJL
8/25/33

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE.500.C1197/615
FOR ....#354
FROM
) DATED ..Sept..8..1933
To Japam
NAME
1—1127
REGARDiNG: Excerpt containing statement by representative of Japan
in regard to manufacturers and dealers in narcotic
drugs.
rr

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.93)
8pteπher 26 1933
NO. 366
H
894.114 NARCOTiCS/86
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Seoretary of State would appreciate receiving
from the Embassy at Tokyo any clippings from English
language newspapers or translations from Japanese
language newspapers or other publications regarding the
illicit traffic in narcotic drugs between Japan and any
part of the world, with especial attention to the traffio
between Japan and the Pacific Coast of the United States,
whioh, as the Embassy is aware, has assumed proportions
which cause serious concern to the Government of the
United States. It is suggested that the JAPAN CHRONICLE
of Kobe will probably be the most fruitful source of in-
formation among the English language newspapers.
Atrue cor
signn
FE:XRD:7
9/25/33
894.114 Narcotics/

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.93)
Jane
In reply refer to
0s6D.114 Narsotioa/80
894.114 NARCOTICS/85
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and
encloses herewith, for the recoras of the Treasury
Department, a copy of the annual report of the Gov-
ernment of She Netherlands Indies
on the traffic in opium and other dangerous drugs
for the year 1os submitted under the Narcotics
Limitation Convention of 1931 and transmitted, under
the terms of that Convention, by the Secretary Gen-
5
eral of the League of Nations.
Two additional copies are also enclosed for the
information of the Commissioner of Narcotics and the
Customs Agency Service, respectively.
01
T.LY
Enclosure:
3 eoples of
League document No. 9.0./A.R.l9so/0.
FE:EB
FE
VI-10-41

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
September 25 1935
To the Amerioan Consul,
H
Kobe, Japan.
The Department has noted with interest the mention
in various Far Eastern publications of fines, approxi-
ating Yon 5,000,000, sa1d to have been imposed by
Judge Onishi of the Osake Appeal Court, on August 15,
l93s, on members of a gang of illicit traffickers in
NARCOTIC
narootic drugs, who apparently smuggled the drugs in to
Japan from Germany during the period from 1927 to 1932.
The artieles available to the Department, however,
contained no information regarding the names of the
S/87
tafriekers, the nature of the drugs, the sources of supply.
the eventual destim tion of the smuggled drugs, whether
or not prison sentences accompanied the fines, and
whother or not the deoisions of the Osake Appeal Court
are final in the cases. The Department therefore requests
that you endeavor to obtain from the appropriate author1-
ties full details of the cases referred to.
394.1l4 Narcotios/
F3:ERD:EMF
9/86/33
01860

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.93)
H
261463
394.114 NARCOTiCS/88
To the Amerioan Consul,
Kobe, Japan.
The Department requests the American Consul at
Kobe, Japan, to send to the Department in each diplomatio
pouch any olippings from Engliah language newspapers or
translations from Japanese language newspapers which
may be available to the Consulate regarding the illicit
traffio in opium or narootio drugs in Japan. While the
Department is interested in the traffio between Japan
and any other part of the world, it is especially inter-
ested in the traffio between Japan and the Pacifio Coast
of the United States, as this traffic has recently as-
sumed proportions whioh cause serious concern to the
Amerioan Government.
FE:ERD:RMF
9825/33
894.114 Narootios/
So

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 2, 1933.
No. 539.
Subject:
Transmitting a copy in translation of a
note from the Minister for Foreign Affairs
regarding trafficking in narcotics.
01210
REGD
Trl
N
JERN AFFAIRS
001/21 1933
894.114 NARCOTiCS/89
 sy taken
Wepuftment od State
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
There is enclosed herewith a copy of a note,
1/
with its enclosure, from the Minister for Foreign
Affairs, dated September 29, 1933. The note contains
a copy of a letter with its annex, which the Chief of
the Treaty Bureau of the Department of Foreign Affairs
sent to the Commissioner of Narcotics in the Treasury
Department at Washington on September 27, 1933, in
regard to certain traffickers in narcotics recently
OCT 87-1933
arrested

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
arrested by the Japanese authorities.
It will be noted that the penalty imposed
on these traffickers was one month's imprisonment.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
Copy in translation of
a note from the Minister for
Foreign Affairs, of September 29, 1933.
811.4
ELN:r
4cc's
deshroyed
3 carbon
10/30/33 F020

=== Page 170 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure to despatch No. 539
of 0ctober 2, 1933.
Translation.
Department of Foreign Affairs,
No. 78/T3
Tokyo, September 29, 1933.
Monsieur l'Ambassadeur:
I have the honor to transmit herewith for your
information copies of a communication from Mr. Kuriyama,
Director of the Treaties Bureau of this Department, to
Mr. H.J. Anslinger, Commissioner of the Bureau of
Narcotics, Treasury Department, Washington, in regard
to certain traffickers in narcotics recently arrested
by the Japanese authorities.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your
Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
Koki Hirota(SEAL)
Minister for Foreign Affairs,
His Excellency
Mr. Joseph C. Grew,
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
of the United States of America,
Tokyo.
Tr:WTT

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
C O P Y
September 27th, 1933.
Sir,
I beg to communicate to you information,
as set forth in the Annex, concerning certain traffick-
ers in narcotics between Japan and the United States,
who have recently been arrested by the Japanese autho-
rities.
Yours faithfully,
Signed: S. Kuriyama,
Director of the Bureau of
Treaties and Conventions,
Department of Foreign Affairs.
H.J. Anslinger, Esquire,
Commissioner, Bureau of Narcotics,
Treasury Depatment, Washington, D.C.
U. S. A.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
Annex.
1. Takenaga and Three Others.
(1) The name, age, occupation and abode of the accused
persons.
Sumisaburo Takenaga, aged 64, godown keeper,
178, Nishiyo-dori, 3-chome, Suma, Kobe.
Denzo Yanagida, aged 40, without occupation,
68, Yabe-cho, Minato, Kobe.
Seiichi Morita, aged 31, stoker on board the
N.Y.K.
S.S. "Asama Maru", without fixed abode.
Tokushi Ai, aged 31, oiler on board the N.Y.K.
S.S. "Asama Maru", without fixed abode.
(2) The offenses committed.
The accused persons(Tak@naga, Tanagida, Morita
and Ai), acting in collusion, planned to export,
without the requisite permission of the Minister for
Home Affairs, cocaine to SanFrancisco.
a. On or about January 16th, 1933, Takenaga, with
the sum of Yen 500 supplied by Morita, bought from
one Kosaku Tsujido 18 bottles of cocaine, each con-
taining 25 grammes; and took these bottles of cocaine to
the house of Yanagida who there delivered them(on
January 18th) to Morita, a stoker on board the N.Y.K.
S.S. "Asama Mary*. Morita secretly put them on
board this steamer which left Kobe on that day, and
landed them at San Francisco on February 3rd.
b. On or about March 18th, 1933, Takenaga bought
from one Watanabe 10 bottles of cocaine, each
containing

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
containing 25 grammes, with the sum of Yen 280
supplied by Morita, and took them to the house of
Yanagida. On March 2lst Yanagida delivered, at his
house, the lo bottles of cocaine to Morita who se-
cretly put them on board the N.Y.K. S.S. "Asama Maru" which
left Kobe on that day. On April 7th Morita, together
with Ai, landed them at SanFrancisco.
c. On or about May 14th, 1933, Takanaga bought from
the aforesaid Watanabe one box of cocaine, containing
one pound, and seven bottles of cocaine, each con-
taining 25 grammes, with the sum of Yen 680 odd jointly
supplied by Morita and Ai. Takenaga took all this
cocaine to the house of Yanagida who there delivered
it to Morita on May 18th. Morita put it secretly on
board the N.Y.K. S.S."Asama Maru" which left Kobe on that
day, and, together with Ai, landed it at SanFrancisco
on June 3rd.
(3)
How the offences were discovered.
When, on June 24th, 1933, the S.S. "Asama Maru",
on board of which Morita and Ai were serving, touched
at Kobe, a member of the Kobe Water Police visited the
steamer, and, having heard a rumor that the two men
were implicated in the smuggling of narcotics, he
examined them with the result that they confessed
to the offenses above mentioned.
(4)
The name of manufacturers.
Not known.
(5)
How the cocaine in question was supplied by
manufacturers.
Nothing is known beyond the fact that Takogaga
bought

=== Page 174 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
bought the cocaine from a drug broker named Kosaku
Tsujido who has no fixed abode, and also from one Wata-
nabe.
(6) The smuggler in the U.S.A.
A Chinese(Male) living in SanFrancisco, whose
name is not known and who appears to be 37 or 38
years old.
II. Nakamura and Another Person.
(1) The name, age, occupation and abode of the accused
persons.
Yakichi Nakamura, aged 31, without occupation
(formerly a stoker), 548 Yakushi-dori 3-chome,
Nada, Kobe.
Tatsuo Yamada, aged 27, without occupation
(formerly a stoker), without fixed abode.
(2) The offenses committed.
Both the accused persons were at that time
stokers on board the N.Y.K. S.S. "Asama Maru".
a. On or about January 10th, 1933, Nakamura, without
the requisite permission of the Minister for Home Affairs,
bought four pounds of morphine at HongKong and put it on
board the S.S. "Asama Maru". On her arrival at Kobe on
February 26th, he landed the morphine there.
b. On May 18th, 1933, the two accused persons, acting in
collusion and without the requisite permission of the
Minister for Home Affairs, put the above-mentioned four
pounds of morphine on board the S.S. "Asama Maru" at Kobe,
bound

=== Page 175 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-
bound for San Francisco. At this destination the
morphine was landed.
(3) How the offences were discovered.
When, on June 24th, 1933, the S.S. "Asama Maru",
on board of which Yamada was serving, touched at Kobe,
a member of the Kobe Water Police visited the steamer,
a rumor
and, having heard^that the stoker was implicated in the
smuggling of narcotics, the policeman examined him
with the result that he confessed to the offences above
mentioned.
(4)
The name of manufacturers.
Not known.
(5)
How the morphine in question was supplied by manu-
facturers.
Nothing is known beyond the fact that Nakamura
bought the aforesaid morphine from a Chinese by the
name of Tang Liu, about 50 years old and living in
HongKong but without any fixed abode.
(6)
The smuggler in the U.S.A.
Yataro Matsuoka(about 50 years old with a
stature of about 5.2 feet, and of medium build) living
somewhere near the Golden Gate Park, SanFrancisco.
III. Nishijima and Another Person.
(I)
The name, date of birth, occupation and abode of,
and the sentence passed on, the accused persons.
Monzo Nishijima, born on February 28th, 1881;
without occupation, 63 Rokuban-cho, 2-chome,
Hayashida, Kobe, sentenced to penal servitude for
one month.
Komataro

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5-
Komataro Matsuzaki, born on April 6th, 1904;
cook's assistant aboard the S.S. "Tatsuta Maru",
without fixed abode, sentenced to penal servitude
for one month.
(2) The offences committed.
The two accused persons jointly planned to export
morphine without the requisite permission of the
Minister for Home Affairs, taking advantage of the
fact that Matsuzaki was serving as cook's assistant
on board the N.Y.K. S.S. "Tatsuta Maru" plying between
Japan ports and Los Angeles. On May 1st, 1933, Nishi-
jima at his house delivered one pound of morphine to
Matsuzaki who with this morphine embarked on board the
S.S."Tatsuta Maru", then at anchor in Kobe, the same
evening. On the following day the steamer left Kobe
for Los Angeles where she arrived on the 20th, and
thus the morphine was smuggled.
(3)
How the offences were discovered.
When a member of the Kobe Water Police visited
the S.S. "Tatsuta Maru" on her arrival in Kobe on
June 10th, 1933, he learned that Matsuzaki had
brought a considerable amount of money from Los
Angeles, and heard a rumour that he was implicated in
asmuggling case. The policeman accordingly ex-
amined him with the result that he confessed to the
above-mentioned offences.
(4)
The name of manufacturers.
Not known.
(5)
How the morphine was supplied by manufacturers.
Nothing is known beyond the fact that Nishijima
bought the morphine in question from one Uyeno
whose place of abode is not known.
(6)

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.95)
- 6 -
The smuggler in the U.S.A.
Ichiro Koga(apparently 35 or 36 years old)
living in San Pedro, Los Angeles.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL -- STAFF USE ONLY
No. 386
H
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
89
4
The Seoretary of State refers to paragraph one of
the Department's telegraphic instruction No. 30, dated
4
March 27, 1933, 5 p.m., in which it was stated that the
NARC
American Government is seriously concerned over the in-
creasing amounts of morphine, apparently of Japanese
OT
manufaoture, which are appearinf in the illicit traffic
in narcotic drugs in the Pacific Coast States of the
C
C0
United States, and encloses herewith a list of seizures
6
of nercotic drugs, made during the period from January 1,
0
1932, to July 1, 1933, in which Japenese nationals,
Japanese vessels, or narcotic drugs of Japanese origin
Xo
were involved. This list is transmitted for the informa-
tion of the Embassy end for such discreet use as the
Embassy may consider it wise to make of it in disoussing
the illicit drug traffic with the Japanese authorities.
It will be observed that more seizures were made in
the first six months of 1933 than in the entire year 1932.
while the amounts seized tend to become lurger. According
to the Commissioner of Narcotics of the Treasury Department,
the quantity of Japanese morphine which entered the Pacifio
Coast

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Coast States 1n 1932 and the early part of 1933 was so
great as to result in a lowering of the price of morphine
in the illicit traffic in that part of the Uni ted States
by April, 1933, from 200 per ounce to $50 per ounce.
The attention of the Embassy is also invited to the
faot that the three Japanese (Kakuji Nishiyori, "Jimmie"
Takata, and Tamotsu Mayeda), who were arrested in Los
Angeles on April 3, 193s, in connection with the seizure
of some 90 ounces f morphine, were sentenced on May 1,
1933, to terms of five years cuch in the penitentiary.
Aocording to the  mbassy's despatch Ho. 529, of Septem-
ber 27, 1933, the rour apunese who were arrested in
Japan (Kiyom tsu Fujihara, Jiro Kondo, Tatsujiro Kawahara,
and Hideo Sugimoto) us beint connected with the same nar-
ootics smuggling ring, nere sentenced on August 10, 1933,
by a Japanese court, to only two months in jail (in one
case tr only one wonth ith a st spended sentence). It
might be useful for the mbassy, should occasion arise in
informal conversations vith the Japanese authorities deal-
ing with narcotics matters, to indicate to those authorities
that the severity of the sentences imposed by the American
court well illustrates tne importence which the American
Government places upon the suppression of the illicit traf-
fic in narcotic drugs.
Enclosure:
List of seisures of narcetic
drugs in which Jepenese vessels
or nationals or drugs of Japonese
origin vere involved.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.97)
LIST OF SEIZURES OF NARCOTIC DRUGS IN
WHICH JAPANESE NATIONALS OR VESSELS
OR DRUGS OF JAPANESE ORIGIN, WERE INVOLVED
FROM JANUARY 1, 1932 TO JULY 1 1933, IN
CITIES OF THE UNITED STATHS
February 3, 1932.
At Honolulu, T. H. 14 vials of Astor Losung and
20 vials of Staubli Losung II, eaoh of these
medicines containing 2.49% of cocaine hydrochloride.
From Koizumi Mikage-do (Gokei-do?) Honpo, Motoishi
(Honseki?) machi, Nihonbashi-ku, Tokyo. Shipped to
Hirose, Honolulu.
June 23, 1932.
At Honolulu, I. H. 2l t-tael tins of smoking opium
and one paper package of smoking opium. Seized by
Federal agents from Fusataro Izumi and Yusuta Miura,
Japanese subjeots.
July 7, 1932.
At Seattle, Washington. 60 tins containing 480
ounces of morphine, labelled "Japan Fharmaceutical
Establishment, Osaka, Japan". Seized from George
Black, Masaichi Mugikawa, Tomaju Yoshioka and Tadauki
Ito, while being taken from the Jupanese Steamship
VENÍCE MARU in a row-boat.
August 10, 1932.
At Seattle, Yashington. 14 bottles containing l050
grains of morphine hydrochloride. Labelled "Imperial
Hygienic Laboratory", "Billikin Brand, Hippon Yakuhin
Yoko"; also Japanese characters translated as "No.
5525. Morphine Sal ts. Showa 7th year, July. 5 gr."
"Poison. Japan Pharmacopoeia, Morphine Hydroohloride.
Contents  grams." Discoverec by ederal agents in
spare steam pipe of American Steamship PRESIDENT
MADISON.
December 19, 1932.
At Honolulu, T. H. 7 S-toel tins of smoking opium.
Found on Ho Ti Yuen (Chinese und Hatsugo Yoshikawa
(alias H. Yoshi) (Jepanese unon their arrest by a
Federal agent.
February 3, 1933.
At Tacoma, washington. 8o ounces o morphine hydro-
chloride. No labels. Seized n hod the Japnese
Steamship YoGI MRt, in pos sin
hirokt hi Prank
Kanai, a Japanese subject.
February 8, 1933.
At Los Angeles, California. 1 bottle containing 80
grains of cocaine, labelled "Cohei anabe, Osaka,
Jepan. Cocainum Hydrochloricumr. Seized by Mederal
agents from N. Komai, Japanese sub jeot.

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
February 24, 1933.
At Soappoose, Oregon. 4 cans containing 64 ounces
of morphine hydrochloride, labelled "Morphinum
Hydrochloricum, manufaotured by Japan Pharmaceutical
Establishment". Also 56 packages containing 448
ounces and one package containing 48 ounces of
morphine, without labels. Seized from Tom Kuromiya,
Jan Kuromiya and Sam Onuma, all Japanese subjeots,
at Scappoose, Oregon. Believed to have been carried
into Presoott, Oregon, on the Japanese Steamship
AKAGISAN MARU.
Maroh 10, 1933.
At New York. 810 pounds of poppy heads, from which
opium and opium alkaloids could be extracted. Im-
ported from Japan by the Japanese Steamship VICTORIA
MARU.
Maroh 15, 1933.
At Honolulu, T. H. 2 packages containing each 8
purple envelopes of one ounce each of morphine.
No labels but packages wrapped in Japanese newspapers.
Seized on British Steamship EMPRESS OF JAPAN from
Wong Mook On, a Chinese.
April 3, 1933.
At Los Angeles, California. 8 bottles containing
7 ounces of morphine, 25 envelopes containing 75
ounces of morphine, and 2 envelopes containing 14
ounces of morphine. Seized from Kakuji Nishiyor1,
Jimmie Takata and Tamotsu Mayeda (alias Kojima) in
an automobile.
10/23/53

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
FE
PM RECD
AMERICANCONSULATE
Kobe, Japan, October 31, 1933.
&RE
NOV 2 0 33
SUBJECT:
Transmission of Clippings Regarding the
N
1—1055
Smuggling of Narcotics at Osaka.
89
THE HONORABLE
4 NARCOTICS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON
Copy taken
SIR:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the
Department's instruction of September 25, 1933, file
孔
number 894.ll4 Narcotics/ instructing this office to
6
159
send to the Department in each diplomatic pouch any
clippings from English language newspapers or transla-
tions from Japanese language newspapers which may be
available to the Consulate regarding the illicit traffic
in opium or narcotic drugs in Japan.
There is enclosed herewith the translation of a
clipping which appeared in the Japanese edition of the
OSAKA MAINICHI of July 5, 1933, regarding the arrest of
a group of cocaine smugglers. Other clippings were
forwarded with my despatch No. 240 of October 24, 1933.
The Consulate will in the future forward clippings
NOV·83 1933
pertainings to the narcotics trade from all papers in
FLED
the Kobe consular district. Unless instructed to the
contrary articles referring to prosecutions in the United
States

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
States will be included among the clippings forwarded.
It is assumed that one or two clippings will be
sufficient for the Department's use.
Respectfully yours,
Imord Pannon
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.
Enclosure:
No. 1. Translation of article in OSAKA
MAINICHI, July 5, 1933.
811.4
HD/mh
In duplicate to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
1carbon deshoyed
11/23/335000

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 246 of Mr. Howard Donovan,
American Consul at Kobe, Japan, dated October 31, 1933,
on the subject: Transmission of Clippings Regarding the
Smuggling of Narcotics at Osaka.
COPY
MORNING EDITION OF THE OSAKA MAINICHI SHIMBUN
dated July 5, 1933.
SMUGGLERS OF COCAINE ARRESTED
BY THE KOBE WATER POLICE STATION.
Smugglers of cocaine were arrested by the
Kobe Water Police Station which had recently
been fighting smuggling cocaine out of the
country. The prime mover of the smugglers
arrested was Sumizo Matsunaga, 64, of Kaigan-dori,
Kobe-ku, Kobe-shi, who on January 12, 1933, in
g9league with Denzo Yanagida, 40, of Yumisho-mura,
Nakashinkawa-gun, Toyama-ken, smuggled into San
Francisco four pounds of cocaine valued at
¥3,200.00, making a tool of Seiichi Mopita, 36,
a fireman on the S.S. ASAMA MARU, and Tokuji Ai,
31, an oiler on the same liner, and with this a
starter they smuggled into San Francisco five
times cocaine which amounted to 15,000.00 in
al1.
jt

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.96)
FF
PM RECD
No. 240
AMERICANCONSULATE
Kobe
OM
HOV 2 0 33
SUBJECT:
Smuggling of Narcotics at Osaka.
1—1055
November 22 1938
Copysant to
8
6
Theang, hov.22
4
133
THE HONORABLE
4 NARCOT iCS/
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
1933
WASHINGTON
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
instruction of September 25, 1933 (File No. 894.1l4
Narcotics), requesting full details of the trial and
6
2
conviction of a gang of narcotics smugglers who on
August 15, 1933 were reported to have been fined
Yen 5,000,000 by Judge Onishi of the Osaka Court of
Appeals.
Inquiry was made of Judge Onishi as to the case
in question. Mr. Onishi stated that under the law he
himself was unable to discuss matters pertaining to a
trial before him, but that Mr. Saburo Tanida, President
of the Osaka Court of Appeals, would be free to supply
the desired information. This he very effectively did
NOV 83 1933
by presenting the Consulate with a transcript of the
FILED
court record of the case in question.
The staff of this office is at present not adequate
to permit of a complete translation of the Japanese text
of

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
of the testimony and sentence. The essential details
have, however, been ascertained as set forth below.
The complete text in katakana is transmitted herewith
as an enelosure to this despatch. The salient points
of the case may be summarized as follows:
1. The Case.
Appeal from the Osaka District Court to the Osaka
Court of Appeals against conviction by the court of
first instance on the charge of smuggling narcotics in
violation of the Narcotics and Customs laws of Japan.
2. Names of the Convicted Smugglers.
Keiji Kitada, aged 51, a contractor residing in
Kohama-mura, Kawabe-gun, Hyogo-ken.
Mantaro Asada, aged 36, a druggist residing at
11 Awaza 3-bancho, Nishi-ku, Osaka.
Kanichi Shimamura, aged 52, resident of Shioya,
Tarumi-cho, Akashi-shi, Hyogo-ken.
844c,114 nax/27
Shigeichi Ihara, aged 30, resident of Sonoda-
mura, Kawabe-gun, Hyogo-ken.
Gihei Miyamoto, aged 46, a resident of Aoki-cho,
Kanagawa-ku, Yokohama-shi.
Minezo Yajima, aged 62, a druggist residing at
167l Aza Kishimoto, Hirano, Mikage-cho,
Muko-gun, Hyogo-ken.
3. The Nature of the Drugs Smuggled.
Benzol Morphine.
Benzil Morphine.
4. The Sources of the Drugs.
Leopold Mager Company of Hamburg, Germany, supplied
2,635 kilogrammes of Benzol Morphine
1,1l5 kilogrammes of Benzil Morphine.
E. Paul Company of Hamburg, Germany, supplied
200 kilogrammes of Benzol Morphine
200 kilogrammes of Benzil Morphine.
Rudowitchgrafe (translation dubious) Company of
Hamburg, Germany, supplied
100 kilogrammes of Benzil Morphine.
5.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
5. The Disposition of the Narcotics.
The bulk of the narcotics itemized in the preceding
paragraph had been disposed of by the gang before their
apprehension by the police. The drugs found by the
authorities amounted to 383,120.4 grams of Benzil
Morphine. Kitada, Shimamura, Ihara and Miyamoto were
the actual smugglers, disposing of their drugs through
Asada and Yajima, who owned a drug store in Osaka. The
police found a list kept by Asada of the persons to whom
he disposed of the drugs. Both partners were aware that
the narcotics they sold had been smuggled. The transcript
of the court record indicates that Asada and Yajima
disposed of the drugs to Shintaro Inouye and Shinichi
Masuda who were evidently peddlers to addicts. The
addresses and nominal occupations of these two are not
shown in the record of the appeal.
6. Appeal from the Decision.
Kitada, Shimamura, Ihara and Yajima have appealed
the decision of the Osaka Court of Appeals to the
Supreme Court at Tokyo. The Consulate has endeavored
to ascertain from the officials of the Osaka tribunal
when the case will be heard before the Supreme Court,
but they state that they have no information on the
subject. The matter doubtless depends on how full is
the docket of the Supreme Court. The Consulate General
at Tokyo can in all probability ascertain the approximate
date of the trial and has been requested by this
Consulate to inform the Department in the premises.
7.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
7. The Sentences:
Keiji Kitada ....... Three months' penal servitude
and fine of ¥952,380 (in case
of failure to pay the fine,
the culprit shall be placed
in a prison workshop for 365
days).
Kanichi Shimamura .. One month's penal servitude
and fine of ¥841,380.
(To be placed under probation
for two years. In case of
failure to pay the fine, the
culprit shall be placed in a
prison workshop for 160 days.)
Gihei Miyamoto ..... Fine of 76,590.
(In case of failure to pay
the fine, the culprit shall
be placed in a prison workshop
for 120 days.)
Shigeichi Ihara .... Fine of ¥8l0,300.
(In case of failure to pay
the fine, the culprit shall
be placed in a prison work-
shop for 150 days.)
Mantaro Asada ...... Fine of 400.
(In case of failure to pay
the fine, the culprit shall
be placed in a prison work-
shop for 80 days.)
Minezo Yajima ...... Fine of ¥500.
(In case of failure to pay
the fine, the culprit shall
be placed in a prison work-
shop for 100 days.)
The magnitude of the above fines is on paper only.
The chief culprit, Kitada, for example, is given the
option of paying the prodigious sum of 952,380 or
spending a year in a penal workshop. Capitalizing his
services at the rate of 2 per day, it is perceived
that with an outlay of 730 he can liquidate an obliga-
tion of 952,380, netting a clear saving of 951,650.
Such arithmetic of course assumes farcical proportions.
The fines are punishment solely in name.
It

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
It does, however, appear that in addition to the
sentences enumerated above, there were imposed by the
court additional fines on the following culprits:
Keiji Kitada
......... 1,182,161.472
Kanichi Shimamura
....
1,423,793.118
Gihei Miyamoto
140,070.00
Shigeichi Ihara
1,366,953.168
These fines are understood to be real. They are derived
from application of the Japanese narcotics laws, whereby
provision is made that all the drugs smuggled by a
convicted narcotics runner must be confiscated or, if
that is. impossible, be compensated for at the market
price for the narcotics in question. Since the gang
had been successful in disposing of most of its
importations from Hamburg, these additional fines
represent the cost of the drugs disposed of. If the
oonvicted men can not satisfy the fines in cash the
State attaches their property in the same manner as if
they had been adjudged bankrupt.
The foregoing paragraphs present the gist of the
court record under the headings which were of particular
interest to the Department. Should this Consulate be
able to secure additional information with reference
to the instant case or to others in connection with
the illegal entry of narcotics, it will at once inform
the Department.
Respegtfully yours,
Honord Ponron
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.
List

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.97)
-6-
List of enclosures:
August 16, 1933.
No. 3.
Excerpt from Osaka Asahi Shimbun
(translation), August 16, 1933.
811.4
RMMcC/mh
In duplicate to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Treasury Attache, Kobe.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
COPY.
AHI SHIMBUN, OSAKA, AUGUST 16, 1933
DS AND. FORFEITS AMOUNTING TO ¥6, 700, 000, A
PREVIOOBLY UNHEARD-OF FIGURE, ARE TO BE IMPOSED UPON
L WEOSE ACTIVITIRS EXTENDED ALL OVER THE WORLD.
 amgmt 16th, decisions were handed down by
Presidimg Judge Onimhi of the Osaka Court or appeal
upon the ease against six illicit traffiokers who
hed been arreated by the Osake District Attorney's
orrice on charge of violating the Regulations govern-
ing Narootics and the Customs Laws, and who hed appealed
from the decisions of the lower court. These accused
were:
koiji kitada, aged 5l, a contractor, Kohama-mura,
Kawabe-gan, Hyogo-ken.
Kanichi Shimamura, aged 52, Shioya, Tarumi-cho,
Akashi-shi.
Shigeichi Thara, aged 30, Sonoda-mura, Kawabe-gun,
Hyogo-ken.
Gihei Miyamoto, aged 46, Aoki-cho, Kanagawa-ku,
Yokohama-shi
Mantero Asada, aged 36, a. druggist, 11 Awaza 3-chome,
Nishi-ku, Osaka.
Minezo Yajima, aged 62, Hirano, Mikage-cho, Muko-
gun, Hyogo-ken,
and the fines and forfeits to be imposed upon them amount
to 6.700,000 which is apparently a previously unheard-or
figure.
Keiji Kitada: Three months' penal servitude, fine
of ¥952,360 and forfe1t of 1,423,793.
Kanichi Shimamure: One year's penal servitude (to
be placed under probation), fine
of ¥821.380 and forfeit of 765,960.
Shigeiohi Ihara: Fine of v813,000 and forfeit of
n,011,680.
Mantaro Asada: Fine of ¥400.
Minezo Yajima: Fine of ¥400.
A true copy of
the sigmed origi
mal. J.7.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.114 NARC0TiCS/
SEE
893.114 N 16 Manchuria/59
FOR..#570
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
Nov.1.1933
TO
NAME
1-1127
96
5
REGARDING:
Cultivation of the poppy in "Manchukuo": Clipping from
the JAPAN TIMES of Oct. 31, relative to the -.
93
h

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.95)
No.2
H
In reply refer to
E 894.114 Narcot1os/92
894.114 NARC0TICS
CONFIDENTIAL
Attention: Bureau of Narootics
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honor able the Secretary of the Treasury and encloses
herewith, for the 1nformation of the Commissioner of Nar-
cotios, a copy of despatoh No. 240, dated October 24,
/94
1933, from the American Consulate at Kobe, with enclosures,
in regard to a narootics smuggling case at Osaka.
Enclosure:
No. 240, 0ctober 24, 1933,
from Kobe, with ∞pies of
enclosures.
FE:EMF
FE
11/22/33
Nov. 22D

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
RECU
NO. 724
OF
12
AMERICANOONSULATE GENERAL,
Tokyo, Japan, NVember 15, 1933
6
DEC 2
December 5 1933
B
SUBJECT:
Trial of Japanese narcotic smugglers
H
Sapy sent ts
THE HONORABLE
894.114 NARCOTiCS/95
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
41933
WASHINGTON.
tipytaken
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to Despatch No 2 40 of the
American Consul at Kobe, Japan, dated October 24, 1933,
relative to the trial and conviction of a number of narcotic
smugglers, formerly operating in and around Osaka. It was
reported that the smugglers would appeal from the decision
of the Osaka Court of Appeals to the Supreme Court at Tokyo
and this Consulate General was requested to inform the
Department of the date set for the hearing of the appeal.
According to information received from the Ministry for
Foreign Affairs through the Embassy the "appeal will be heard
in the near future". The Consulate General will inform the
Department of the proceedings.
Respeotfully yours,
American Gonsul
DEC 61933
811.4
CAH/es
3ccsy
Five
1-1881

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.93)
In reply refer to
1B 894.114 Narcotios/95
BH
CONFIDENTIAL
894.114 NARCOT iCS/96
Attention: Bureau of Narcotios
The Aoting Seoretary of State presents his compli-
ments to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and,
with reference to this Department's letter, dated Novem-
ber 22, l933, enoloses herewith, for the confidential in-
formation of the Commissioner of Narcotios, a copy of des-
patoh No. 724, dated November 15, 1933, from the Amer1oan
Consulate General at Tokyo, in regard to the appeal of certain
nareotic smugglers from the decision of the Osaka Court of
Appeals to the Supreme Court at Tokyo.
Enclosure:
No. 724, November 15, 193.s,
√, 1
from Tokyo.
FE:EMF
FR
18/4/33
SD

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.97)
-8
The effeetive ingredient is discharged together with
urine. Due to its nature of causing local paralysis, 1t
relieves pain 1n the urinary passage. For this reason it
is sompoumded with oil of sandal and used as a medicime
for suring gonorrhoea. It is aleso sometimes used as a
sudorifio for patients suffering from catarrhal diseases.
When kawakawa wine is habitually used for a long time, it
is said to cause a certain form of toxicosis called kawaismus.
(The disease begins with exfoliation of the skin leaving
marks behind and the skin gradually loses 1ts gloss. Weaken-
ing of eye-sight and mental dullness are said to be other symp-
toms of the diseass.) Though it is called by matives bawe-
kave or kava wine, it is by no means a kind of aleoholio
beverage. Nor does it contain any alkaloid similar to that
found in morphine or cocgine. But inasmuch as it causes
the above-mentioned effeot and 1f it is abusod too often
it may make the drinker indolent, its conaumption is per-
mitted, following the precedent established under the German
regime, oaly when there is good justification and when it
is net used more than onoe a week.
Sinee the inauguration of the Japanese mendatory rule,
no ease of toxicosis from drinking of Shakao has been treated
in any or the Government hosp1 tals, nor information has ever
been received of the appearance of a case. Consumers of
Shakmo are confined to nativesof the Island of Ponape, there
being no habit of drinking 1t among natives of the other
imlands under Japanese Mandate. There exists a record say-
ims that it was fomerly used in Kusaie Island, but none of
its imhabitants use 1t now.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.93)
19E3
In reply refer to
FE 894.114 Narootios/
H
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
89
The Aoting Seoretary of State presents his compli-
Acting
44
ments to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and
11
encloses herewith, for the information of the Commissioner
of Narootics, a copy of a clipping which appear in THE
NARC
JAPAN ADVYRTISER of November 7, 1933, 1n regard to the
arrest of two Chinese, employed on the Nippon Yusen Kaisha
OT
liner TAIYO MARU, on charges of attempting to smuggle
27,000 worth of cocaine and morphine into the United States.
C
/97
Enolosure:
Cl1pping from THE JAPAN
ADVERTISER, November 7,
1933.
FE:EMF
12/11/33
 r
nal.
CRV
12.193

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.98)
THE JAPAN ADVERTISER,
Tokyo, Tuesday, November 7, 1933.
NARCOTICS FOUND ON SHIP
Two Arrested for Attempt at U. S. Smuggling
A Chinese cabin boy and a Chinese interpreter of
the Nippon Tusen Kaisha liner Taiyo Maru were taken 1nto
oustody Sunday by water police at Yokohama on oharges of
attempting to smuggle ? 27,000 worth of cooaine and morphine
into the United States. The arrests were made when the
Taiyo Maru returned. The liner was due to reach Yokohamm
Ootuber 10, and the narcotios, concealed under tables and
in fire bucket lookers, were found October 8. The oaptain
had the morphine and cocaine tossed overboard before his
eyes to avoid the large fine that would have been imposed
had the drugs been aboard when the veasel docked.
Police believe the two suspeots were merely agents for
a large drug ring. The cabin boy 1s Chao Tze-tung, 58, and
the interpreter is Lien Tai, 40. Rengo said Chao confessed
they bought the drugs from a Japanese for y 7,000.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.95)
Decemher 19 1888.
In reply refer to
FR
B
H
Attention: Bureau of Narootics
8
6
The Acting Secretary of State presents his compliments
4
to the Honorable the Acting Seoretary of the Treasury and
encloses herewith, for the information of the Commissioner
4
of Narcot1os, an excerpt from the ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
NARCOTICS
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT TO THE IE AGUE OF NATIONS ON THE ADMIN-
ISTRATION OF THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS UNDER JAPANESE MANDATE
FOR THE YEAR 1932, dealing w1th the use of a native nar-
cotio drug (kaya) by the inhabitants of the 1sland of
Ponape.
6
8
while the use of kava wine by the natives of the South
Seas has been known for many years, the enolosed excerpt
indioates that the Japanese authorities are making a study
of the narootio properties of kava and are endeavoring to
extract therefron the active narootic principle.
DEC18,1988
Enolosure:
Exoerpt in regard to
use of kava.
ww
FRIMRD:KNY
12/10/33

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.97)
DOPY:MMF
KXTRACT FROM AMNUAL REPORT OF THE JAPANESE
GOVEREDMRIT TO THE LEAGUE OF HATIONS ON THE ADMINISTHATION
OF THE BOUTH SEA ISLA DS UNDER JAPANESE MANDATE FOR THE YEAR
1982 (PAGE3 11 - 13)
In Ponape Island, a custom has been prevalent from
early times to drink the juioe extracted from & perennial
herb ealled Shakao or Sakao by pounding 1 ts roots. This
drink is taken only on such oocasion as marriages, funerals,
the sonstruetion of new houses, the first use of fishing nets,
the repairing of roads and the olearing of undergrowth in
palm forests, when people assemble and take meals together,
but it is seldom indulged in at private homes.
When an occasion oomes on whioh the drink is needed, they
first gather roots of the herb and after cutting them into
suitable sizes, pound them on a flat stone with a stone as
large as a cooa-nut (when 1t is to be used in conneotion with
a oeremonial, those pounding the roots as well as those stand-
ing beside them, all wearing waist-cloth made of palm leaves,
sing certain fixed songs in chorus). After the roots are
erashed to a suitable degree, a little water is added to them,
and the pulp being wrapped up in leaves of a tree called
Karao (or those of ohohamabou) the juice is wrung out by hand
into shells of cocoa-nuts. It is then taken in order of the
mocial rank of the drinkers. Tomen also drink it, but in a
far leas quantity than men.
shakao is a plant belonging to the species of pepper and
is seientirieally called piper methysthicum forst. It is
known among natives of the Pacific islands by suoh names as
kava, ave, awa or kawakawa. It grows wild, but in the Island
of Ponape natives grow it in palm forests or ordinary farms
by planting outtings.
It is one to three metres in height. Several stalks
with the maximum diameter of three centimetres come out from
one stump. The leaves are of irregular cordate shape. The
roots are two to three oentimetres thick and are of irregu-
lar shape. Their juice has a certain smell and a sharp bit-
tor taste with a refreshing fluvour. It is called by natives
kave or kawakawa wine and is widely used by natives of the
Polymesian islands. It causes a slight excitement to the
drinker and gradually makes him sleepy. Among its ingredient
is a resin called methyaticin, whioh is of two kinds of L and
B. L narootizes the tongue and eye. According to the studies
so far made, the kawa acid (C sH O), which orystallizes
whem it is dissolved, causes f8caf Baralysis. There is also
an opimion that it is a vertain sugary ingredient that is re-
spomsible for the action.
The

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.94)
141888
In reply refer to
FE
H
8
6
The Aoti g Seoretary of State presents his compli-
4
monts to the Honorable the Aoting Seoretary of the Treasury
and onoloses herewith, for the information of the Surgeon
4
General of the United States Publio Health Service, en ex-
NAROCTI
GOPPt FrOM tHO ANNUAL REPORT OF THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT TO
THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE SOUTH
SEA ISLANDS UNDER JAPANESE MANDATE FOR PIEL YEAR 1932, dOal-
C
ing with the use of a native narootio drug (kava) by the in-
IS
habitants of the island of Ponape.
6
6
While the use of kava wine by the natives of the South
Seas has been known for many years, the enolosed exoerpt
indieates that the Japanese authorities are making a study
of the narcotic properties of kava and are endeavoring to
extraot therefrom the active narcotio principle.
Knolosure:
Excerpt in regard to
use of kava.
CR
9
FX:RND:KMF
FE
12/16/33
Doc. 19 1883

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
PM RECU
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
December 22, 1933.
Z.
B
DEC 26 33
The Honorable
271933
H
The Secretary of State.
 ment  S
Capytiken
894.114 NARCOTiCS/100
Sir:
I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your com-
munication dated December 19, 1933, (FE) transmitting for the
information of the Surgeon General of the United States Public
Health Service an excerpt from the ANNUAL REPORT OF THE JAPANESE
GOVERNMENT TO THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS UNDER JAPANESE MANDATE FOR THE YEAR 1932, deal-
ing with the use of a native narcotic drug (kava) by the inhabi-
tants of the island of Ponape.
Very trulyyours,
hWRoverth
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.
DEC 88 1933
FILED

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.92)
SUBJECT
Traffic in Narcotics - Japan
DATE
894
DEC 1 : 1033
CASE NUMBER
150.
C
-1
O
5
0
JAOKET NO.
No.
JACKET
01
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with office stamp or
notations.
1—1235
U.  GOYBRNMNNT RINTING OFVIC: 1020

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
RECD
AMERICANCONSULATE,
51984.
Kobe
Japein
6
JAN 234
AN3 1934
Sueject: Smuggling of Narcotics at Osaka.
H
1-1055 GPO
894.114 NARCOTiCS/101
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
instruction of September 25, 1933 (File No. 894.114
Narcotics) and to my Despatch No. 240 of October 24,
1933 in reply thereto. With further reference to the
conviction of Keiji Kitada and his confederates by the
Osaka Court of Appeals on the charge of smuggling
morphine from Germany, I have to report that on December
9, 1933 the Supreme Court of Japan denied the appeal of
Kitada and his five confreres and confirmed the verdict
of the Osaka court.
There is enclosed a clipping from the Japan Advertiser
(Tokyo) of December 10, 1933, announcing the decision of
the Supreme Court.
Respectfully yours,
mond Ponnon
JAN·5 1934
Howard Donovan,
FILED
American Consul.
Enclosure

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Enclosure:
No. 1. Clipping from the JAPAN ADVERTISER,
dated December 10, 1933.
811.4
RMMcC/mh
In duplicate to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
1CC

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
Ire No. 1 to despatch No. 262 of Mr. Howard
an, American Consul at Kobe, Japan, dated
mber 11, 1933, on the subject: Smuggling of
cotics at Osaka.
THE JAPAN ADVERTISER
(Tokyo)
December 10, 1933.
FINE ON SMUGGLERS
IS UPHELD BY COURT
Six Men Accused of Evading
Narcotics Rules Ordered to
Pay ¥6,802,367
The Supreme Court yesterday after-
noon turned down the appeal of six
Japanese drug smugglers, thereby up-
holding sentence of the District Court
for fines totaling ¥2,681,460 and recom-
pense to the State to be paid by the
defendants amounting to ¥4,119,907.
The men were accused of violation of
the narcotics law and also customs re-
gulations.
The six men, it was charged, smug-
gled into Japan from Germany during
the three years between February, 1928
and February, 1931, 3,784 kilograms of
morphine compounds in 67 consign-
ments. The defendants are:
Kyoji Kitada, 55. real estate dealer.
of Okumicho, Osaka. Sentenced to
three months imprisonment, to pay
a fine of ¥952,380 and for recompense
to the State an additional ¥1,182,161.
Mantaro Asada, 35, a druggist, of
Awaza. Osaka. Sentenced to pay a fine
of ¥400.
Mikichi Shimamura, 51, of No. 60
Minami-cho. Aoyama, Akasaka, Tokyo.
Sentenced to one month's imprison-
ment, fined ¥841.380 and ordered to
pay recompense to the State. ¥1,423,-
793.
Moichi lnohara. 29, of Juso. Yodo-
gawa, Osaka. Fined ¥810,300 and order-
ed to pay in addition ¥1,366,953.
Gohei Miyamoto, 45, domicile not
fixed. Fined ¥76,000.
Minezo Yajima, 61, of Mikagecho.
Hyogo Prefecture. Ordered to pay a
fine of ¥500.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
FE
2AIRS
JAN 3 1934
Supertmene at Stare
New Example of Judgment on Smuggling
of Morphine.
CHUGAI SHOGYO,
234
December 11, 1933.
There was a judgment case on smuggling of opium
BH
at the Supreme Court which was in charge of S. Motoji,
the presiding judge. This case was previously appealed
but was tejected by theSupreme Court and the court de-
cided to impose a fine of Yen 2,680,000 and also supple-
8
mentary collection of Yen 4,120,000. This sample became
6
an example for future judgments. The defendants are Kyoji
94.114 NARCO
Kitada, 72 Okumi-machi, Nishi-ku, Osaka and six others.
They smuggled Benzol Morphine and Benul (?) Morphine from
Hamburg Germany from 1926 - 1931.
The reason for this judgment, referring to the standard
value of item 1, Article 83 of the Tariff Law, becoming an
example for similar cases that may occur in future, is that
the attorney for the defendants not being statisfied with
the original judgment appealed to the higher court as the
valuation of morphine, according to the attorney's convic-
tion, should be based either on the price of morphine at
1
the time judgment was made or the market price of the prohibi
ed article. However the Supreme Court rejected the appeal and
made the present judgment of the Supreme Court final and an
example for future cases.
894.114 han.
02
The so-called price is the market price at the time
the crime was committed and is not the price at the time of
judgment. This is clear according to the Tariff Law.
However it may be further said that there is no market vaiue,
the prohibited article can be imported if the permit is granted
by the Home Minister and business can be transacted. Therefore,
naturally there is a market value or price. The supplementary
collection must be calculated from the market price at the
time the crime was committed less import duty.
JAN 5
FILED
1934

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advertiser,
okyo, Sunday, December 10, 1933.
FINE ON SMUGGLERS
IS UPHELD BY COURT
Six Men Accused of Evading
Narcotics Rules Ordered to
Pay ¥6,802,367
The Supreme Court yesterday after-
noon turned down the appeal of six
Japanese drug smugglers, thereby up-
holding sentence of the District Court
for fines totaling ¥2,681,460 and recom-
pense to the State to be paid by the
defendants amounting to ¥4,119.907.
The men were accused of violation of
the narcotics law and also customs re-
gulations.
The six men, it was charged, smug-
gled into Japan from Germany during
the three years between February, 1928
and February, 1931, 3,784 kilograms of
morphine compounds in 67 consign-
ments. The defendants are:
Kyoji Kitada, 55, real estate dealer,
of Okumicho, Osaka. Sentenced to
three months imprisonment, to pay
a fine of ¥952,380 and for recompense
to the State an additional ¥1,182,161.
Mantaro Asada, 35, a druggist, of
Awaza. Osaka. Sentenced to pay a fine
of ¥400.
Mikichi Shimamura, 51, of No. 60
Minami-cho, Aoyama, Akasaka, Tokyo.
Sentenced to one month's imprison-
ment. fined ¥841,380 and ordered to
pay recompense to the State 1,423,-
793.
Moichi Inohara, 29, of Juso, Yodo-
gawa, Osaka. Fined 810,300 and order-
ed to pay in addition ¥1,366,953.
Gohei Miyamoto, 45, domicile not
fixed. Fined ¥76,000.
Minezo Yajima, 61, of Mikagecho,
Hyogo Prefecture. Ordered to pay a
fine of ¥500.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.98)
The Japan Times,
Tokye, Sumday, Besember 10, 1933.
Notorious Drug Smugglers Told
By Court To Pay Up Y.6,802,367
The Supreme Court this afternoon
tencedthree months imprisonment
turned down the appeal of six smug-
with fine of 952,380 yen and recom-
8
glers of narcotics and sustained the
pense to the State of 1,182,161 yen;
decision!of the lower court, thereby
confirming the fines amounting to
Mantaro Asada, 35, druggist, at
2,682,460 yen'and the recompense to
Awaza, Osaka; fined'400 yen;
the State of 4,119,907 yen to be paid
Mikiichi Shimamura, 51, at No. 60,
by the defendants, who were charg-
Aoyama Minamicho, Akasaka-ku,
ed with violation of the narcotics law
Tokyo; sentenced to one month's im-
and the customs regulation.
prisonment, fined 841,380 yen and' re.
According to the judiciary author-
compense to the. State of 1,423,793
ties the six men smuggled into Japan
yen;
during three years February 1928 and
February 1931 from Germany 3.794
Moichi Inohara, 29. at Juso. Yodo.
kilogrammes of morphine compounds.
gawa-ku, Osaka: fined 810,300 yen
In 67 instalments. The names of the
and recompense 1,366.953 yen:
defendants .and their punishment
Gihel Miyamoto. 45. domicle un
follows:
known: fined 76,500 yen:
Kyoji. Kitada. 55. land broker.
Minezo Yajinma. 61. at Mikagecho.
native of Okumicho, Osaka; sen-
Hyogo prefecture; fined 500 yen.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advertiser,
Tokyo, Wednesday, December 6, 1933.
MORPHINE FROM JAPAN
PROBLEM TO AMERICA
Narcotics Commissioner's Re-
port Says Heaviest Shipments
Came From This Country
Nippon Dempo-United Press
WASHINGTON, December 4.—Mor-
phine from Japan constitutes a sub-
stantial part of the supply of dope
smuggled into the United States, the
Federal Narcotics Commissioner, Mr.
Harry J. Anslinger, says in his annual
report, published here today. The
heaviest seizures of illegal morphine
during the past year were effected on
the Pacific coast, and the contraband
"came almost entirely from Japan,
from where it was brought by ship,"
the report says.
"The appearance of Japanese mor-
phine. smuggled, distributed and ped-
dled by Japanese on the Pacific coast
and in Hawaii marks a new develop-
ment in this illicit traffic, which the
American and Canadian authorities
view with grave concern," Mr. Ansl-
C
inger's report adds.
a

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.94)
In reply refer to
H
FE
894.114 NARC0TICS/103
The Aoting Secretary of State presents his ∞ mpii-
ments to the Honorable the Aoting Seoretary of the Treasury
and enoloses herewith, for the information of the Surgeon
General of the United States Publio Health Service, a copy
of League of Nations document No. O.C./A.R. 1932/39, dated
November 20, 1933, and entitled "Report by the Government
of Japan for the Year 1932 on the Traffio in Opium and Other
Dangerous Drugs".
Enclosure:
Copy of League of Nations document
No. 0.C./A.R. 1932/39.
U1O
FE:XMF
FE
12/27/33
X
28.188

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.92)
19
0.423
BH
894.114 NARCOTICS/1O4
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Acting Seoretary of State enoloses, for the in-
formation of the Embassy, League of Nations document
No. O.C./A.R. 1932/39, Wh1oh 1s the REPORT BY THE GOVERNMKNT
OF JAPAN FOR THE YEAR 1932 ON THE TRAFFIC IN OPIUM AND OTHER
DANGEROUS DRUGS, as distributed by the Seoretariat of the
League of Nations.
Enolosure:
League of Nations document No.
O.C./A.R. 1932/39.
894.114 Naroot1os/
ue
m
12/28/33
FB:KRD:XMF
DEC 27 1987
9

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
REGD
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
10
WASHINGTON
5
6
COM.
January 5, 1934.
Division of
FFAIRS
JAN 9 34
The Honorable
1934
The Secretary of State.
 Scate
H
Sir:
103
I have the honor to facknowledge receipt of your com-
894.114 NARCOT iCS/1
munication dated December 28, 1933, (FE) transmitting for the
information of the Surgeon General of the United States Public
Health Service a copy of League of Nations document No. O. C./A. R.
1932/39, dated November 20, 1933, and entitled "Report by the
Government of Japan for the Year 1932 on the Traffic in Opium
and Other Dangerous Drugs".
Very truly yours,
hWRobenth
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.
05
FILED

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.95)
Im reply refer to
E 894.114 Baro0t1c8/101
BH
894.
Attention: Bureau of Narcotios
11
The Acting Seoretary of State presents his compli-
4
monts to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and.
NARCOTI CS/ 106
with reference to this Department's letter dated
Decomber 5, 1933, in regard to the trisl of a gang of
smugglers of narootic druge into Japan, enoloses, for
the information of the Commissioner of Narootics, a copy
of a despatoh from the Amerioan Conaul at Kobe. Japan,
dated December 11, 1933, stating that the sentenoes of
the Osaka court were upheld by the Supreme Court. A
lipping from the JAPA: ADVERTISER of December 10. 1933.
is appended to the dospatch.
Enclosure:
From Consulate Kobe
Mo. 262, December 11.
1933, with enolosure.
w2
FE: ERD: EJL
190
FE
50m
1/4/34

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
FE
PM RECD
The Japam Aevertiser,
Topyo, Sunday, Dacamber 17, 1933.
JAM171934
JAN 1 5 34
MORPHINE RUNNER SEIZED
H
Reactionary
Unwittingly
Benefits
Communist Finances
JAN 25 1934
How a member of a reactionary party
894.114 NARCOTiCS/107
unwittingly benefited the funds of an
opposition Communist organization
through a deal in smuggled morphine
was revealed in Tokyo Thursday, ac-
cording to the Asahi, when Toyoji
Harada, reactionary, was placed under
arrest.
Police reports said that Harada last
April called at a chemist's shop in
Yodobashi and offered for sale a packet
which he said contained morphine and
for which he wanted ¥500. He ex-
plained that it had been smuggled in
through Saghalien. He left the stuff
with the chemist and on a return call
asked that it be returned to him.
Then he claimed the chemist had sub-
stituted a mixture of sugar and flour
for the narcotic. The chemist called
the police.
Examination revealed that Harada
had come into possession of four
pounds of smuggled morphine in March
and sold it to Teruo Ishii and Aki-
hiko Tsurumaru for ¥250, obtaining a
repeat order for 120 pounds. Ishii
and Tsurumaru were connected with
the central Communist party and the
students' section. They had bought
the morphine for re-sale to raise
money for the Communist cause.
894.114Nar
JAN6 1934
FILED

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.96)
PM RECD
foryo, 3
17, 1989.
ARS
JAN 17 1934
JAN 1 5 34
  xao
LEAGUE'S NARCOTICS BOARD
ÑOT WORRIED BY BIG NEEDS
Japan, Including Korea, De-
mands Over One Half of Heroin
Asked by Rest of World
Nippon Dempo-United Press
GENEVA, December 15.—The Lea-
gue of Nations' narcotic supervisory
board today announced that the stated
requirements of various nations for
1934 aggregated 47 tons of morphine,
cocaineandheroin.
Morphine
açcounts for 40 tons of this total.
The board explains that the figure is
larger than expected because harmless
derivatives are obtainable from mor-
phine and heroin. League circles, how-
ever, are perturbed, because Japan, in-
cluding Korea and Formosa. demands
over half of all the heroin required
by the rest of the world.
Japan is allotted 650 kilograms of
heroin. After January 1 governments
must verify their quotas for the vari-
ous drugs by using import and export
certificates.
The estimates cover 68 countries and
114 territories and colonies.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.94)
PM RECO
The Jayan Times.
Tokyo, Sunday.
17, 1939.
8RF
JAN 1 5 34
JAN 11984
47 Tons of Mornhine,
Cocaine and Heroin
To Be Used in 1934
Nippon Dempe United Pres
GENEVA. Dec. 15 Tho League of
Nations' nirbotics aupervisory board
today announced that the stated re-
quirements of the various nations for
1934 aggrogate 47 tons of morphine.
cocaine. and heroin. Morphine ac-
counts :for 40 tons of this total.
The board explains that the figure
's larger  than expected, because
harmless méntvetiyes, ae otainable
from Morphina apd herdin. League
circles,: however, are pertyrbed, be-
cause Japan. including Korea and
Formosa, demands over half of all
the heroin required by the. rest of
the world,
Japan is anotted aellpgrams of
heroin.
the sovernment
var'ous druzs by using import and
export certificates.
The estimates cover 68 countries
114 territories and colonies.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
PM RECD
The Japan Chronicle,
Kobe, Wednesday, December 20, 1933.
JAN 1 5 34
OPIUM SMUGGLERS ARRESTED
Four opium smugglers have been arrest-
ed by the Takatsu police in Kanagawa
Prefecture. The arrests took place while
they were enquiring for prospective buyers
of the drug, valued at ¥2,500, which they
obtained from a Japanese railway em-
ployee in Manchukuo.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
THE NEW YORK HERALD-TRIBUNE
Maroh 5, 1934.
The Reorientation of "Dope"
Since the international narootio oonvention went into
foree last July the manufaoturing countries have submitted
reports to the Central Board at Geneva showing a 17 per
cent deerease in morphine production and a 14 per oent decrease
in cocaine output. The supply has fallen off to e point, es
our local police know, where the "dope" -- mostly heroin dope --
whioh peddlers supply to addiots at outrageous prices is
10 per cent narootio and 90 per cent adulterant. This is,
of course, prompting a demand among addiots for cures, and
the Federal government is meeting this demand with hospital-
ization as rapidly as possible.
Side by side with this good news, however, the Treasury
Department's latest report on "Traffic in Opium and Other
Dangorous Drugs" points out that Japanese morphine, peddled
by Japanese agents, has for the first time been appearing in
Hawai1 and on the Pacifio Coast in some quantity. Out of
Geneva also come periodical plaints about the quantities of
Japanese morphine and heroin that are easily available in
China, and also about the Manohurian opium and drug monopoly
whieh is beyond the League's surveillance.
These reports would be folly to belittle. If Japan makes
"depe" eheap and easily available in Asia, and if Amerioa's
European mupply is out off, a stiff ourrent of this traffie
aoress the Pacific must set in, under a foroe as elemental as
the foree of gravity. But if we look into the future this
really is not the most serious aspect of the Oriental "dope"
problem. The Japanese share in this traffio Japan can control;
and umder the pressure of sufficient publioity and moral force
she will do so--sooner or later. But if China gets into this
traffie, with her enormous, offioially patronized opium pro-
duetion (whioh 1s eight times that of all the rest of the
world), and with her growing output of "moonshine" morphine
and heroin--also under irresponsible official patronage--what
foroe on earth 1s going to disoipline her?
Chinese agents in Geneva, whenever they propound this
question to themselves, are in panioky haste to raise a bar-
rage of charges against Japan and against the Occidental com-
mumities in China, in anticipation of the attention that must
soon be fooused upon their country. The police of every foreign
concession or settlement in China waste three-fifths of of their
time trying to proteet their Chinese residents against the
overflow of opium and narootics from the surrounding Chinese
cemmumities, within whioh a rake-ofr from the "dope" trafrie
is the riehest of all ofrioial perquisites.
Praetieally the whole body of China's superfluous
soldiery is maintained out of opium taxes in the Western
provimees or out of opium transit oharges in the littoral
provinees. The eap1 tal at Nanking sits on the biggest artery
of the traffie. Every foreign-language journal published in
ch1n

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.97)
-8
Chime is fully of letters from the interior about the
emormous movemonts of opium toward the coast and about the
imereasing native narootic production -- in competition
with Japanese wares.
One traveler meets 2,000 paok coolies 1m Kueiehow,
each carrying eighty-three pounds of opium, under an escort
of 2o0 soidiers of the Chinese Republio. Another eneountere
400 opium-laden paok hormes (235 pounds eaoh) in Kuangs1.
Another travels down a river nearer the coast with a great
fleet of opium junks, with a small army of uniformed men to
proteet it asainst the Reds. From many widely seattered
distriets the story is always one of "poppy, poppy sverywhere,
and not a bite to eat".
Behind the Japanese "dope" problem, therefore, which
is probably soluble, there is growing up a Chinese "dope"
problem, for whieh there is no solution under existing poli-
tioal conventions, and whioh staggers the imagination.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.114 NARCOT iCS/ 108
811.114 N 16 Seizures/916
FOR ..#627
SEE
FROM
Japan
Grew
--_) DATED DeC...28.1933
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING: Origin of Narcotics found on board SS PRESIDENT MADISON
in Seattle on Aug. 9, 1932: Unable determine -.
h

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.93)
G
JAN 25 1934
8
Im reply refer to
394.
E 894.114 Narootios/
114 NARCOT1CS/109
Attention: Bureau oi Naruutius
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and enoloses
horowith, for the information of the Commissioner of Nar-
eot1os, copies of two artioles whioh appeared in THE JAPAN
ADVERTISER of December 17 and December 19, 1933, ent1tled
"Morphine Runner Seized" and "Narootio Sale Stopped", re-
speetively.
Extre copies of these artioles are enclosed for the
information of the Commissioner of Customs.
Emclosures:
Two copies each of artioles
FrOm THE JAPAN ADVERTISER,
December 17 and 19, 1933.
10005
FE1EMF
1/25/34
JAN
DCB(
11a1.
1024

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
THE JAPAN ADVERTISER,
Tokyo, Sunday, December 17, 1933.
MORPHINE RUNNER SEIZED
Reactionary Unwi ttingly Benefits Communist
Finances
How a member of a reaotionary party unwittingly
benerited the funds of an opposition Communiet organization
through a deal in smuggled morphine was revealed in Tokyo
Thursday, aooording to the Asahi, when Toyoji Harada, re-
actionary, was plaoed under arrest.
Polioe reports said that Harada last April oalled at
a chomist's shop in Yodobashi and offered for sale a paoket
whioh he said contained morphine and for which he wanted
y500. He explained that it had been smuggled in through
Saghalien. He left the stuff with the ohemist and on a return
eall asked that 1t be returned to him. Then he claimed the
chemist had substituted a mixture of sugar and flour for the
narootio. The chemist called the police.
Examination revealed that Harada had come into possession
of four pounds of smuggled morphine in Maroh and mold it to
Toruo Ishi1 and Aktihiko Tsurumaru for ¥250, obtaining a repeat
order for 120 pounds. Ishii and Tsurumaru were conneoted with
the central Communist party and the students' seotion. They
had bought the morphine for re-sale to raise money for the
Communist cause.

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.85)
TAANADVRT
19.193.
dotie sale stopped
Prímeipals in Deal Are Arrested by
Raiding Poliee
The me ané a weman were arrested in Tokyo Sunday
  and a half pounds of a mareotie was changing
 im m illieit deal, mscording to the Amahi. It was
or the Seath Mamchurls Rellway Company, several weeks ago
 the mareetie to his brether, Uakiehi Hirayama, 22, an
mile meckanie. Hideji end Ikeda, S4, of Iitashimage
Mie ni Xikmchi, , are said to have offered to dis-
 t the drug and to have invited Kinse Nakayame of
 ts a eanference to strike a deal. Officers of the
Maan pelies station heard of the affair and arrested the
to  the drug was about to change hands.

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Kobe, Japan, January 13, 1934.
G
uguect: Arrest of Opium Smugglers at Osaka, Japan.
M REC0
Copy sent to
222
6
4
THE HONORABLE
11934
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
February 13 1934
4 NARCOTi CS/I
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to inform the Department that on
November 29, 1933 the Kawaguchi Police of Osaka, Japan,
arrested a Chinese opium peddler and the Japanese from
whom he procured the drug. It is thought that the
particulars of the case may be worthy of addition to
0
the Department's files on narcotics.
The local press announced on December 2, 1933 that
the drug peddlers had been engaged in the opium traffic
for the past ten years, during which period they had
disposed of an estimated ¥50,o00 of opium to Chinese
residents of Osaka.
The Governor of Osaka Prefecture has informed this
Consulate that the Chinese peddler is one Rin Eki Sui,
alias Rin/Ko Ji, according to the Japanese pronunciation
of the characters of his name. A Canton Chinese has
FEB 15 1934
FILED
informed this office that the pronunciation in his
dialect would be Ling Cheng Sui alias Ling Hing Che. In
both cases it will be observed that the Japanese and
Chinese

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Chinese pronunciation agrees for the surname. The
Chinese characters are as follows:
林亦水
林興治
This Chinese drug peddler is forty-nine years of
age and is a native of Fukien Province. He was arrested
while in possession of 79 momme (296 grammes) of opium.
The drug had been purchased from a Japanese, one Manjiro
Nakao, information concerning whom the Governor's office
evidently prefers not to impart.
The Chinese has been remanded for trial by the
District Procurator under the provisions of Article 36
of the Japanese opium law. As the trial has not yet
taken place, his eventual punishment is yet undetermined.
It is perhaps significant that the Japanese dealer
in opium from whom the drug was purchased and whose
degree of guilt might properly have been deemed greater
than that of the subsidiary vendor, was let off with a
fine of but 250. This sentence, according to the
Prefectural Government, is final and apparently closes
the case so far as Manjiro Nakao is concerned.
Should further developments become manifest in the
case they will promptly be reported to the Department.
Respectfully yours,
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.
811.4
RMMoC/mh
In duplicate to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Treasury Attache, Kobe.
C.

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.93)
Heoruary 14 1904.
In reply refer to
FE 894.114 Naroot10s/110
N
CONFIDENTIAL
894.114 NARCOT
Attention: Bureau of Narootios
The Seoretary of State presents nis compliments to
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and enoloses
nerewith, for the confidential information of the Commis-
ioner of Narootios, a copy of despatoh No. 273, dated Janu-
ary 13, 1934, from the American Consulete at Kobe, in regard
to the arrest of two opium smugglers at Osaka, Japan.
Enolosure:
No. 873, January 13, 1934,
from Kobe.
FE : ROF
2/13/34
SJ

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.93)
o.477
Z
894.114 NA1COT1CS/
To the Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Seoretary of State enoloses herewith, for the
information of the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo, a copy of
a olipping entitled "The Reorientation of 'Dope'", which
appoared 1n THE NEW YORK HERALD-TRIBUNE of Maroh 5, 1934,
and whieh deals with the situation in the Far East in
regard to the traffic in opium and other dangerous drugs.
2
Enclosure:
Mar.10,1934
FrOm THE NEW YORK HERALD-
TRIBUNK, Maroh 5, 1934.
894
893.114 Marcotios/
w
8/0/54
FE:ENY

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.
114 NARCOTICS
SEE
800.114_N16_Information/631
FORletter
FROMTreasuryDept.
) DATED Apr116.1934.
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Communication of narcotic information to the Japanese
Consul at Seattle: An expression of the views of the Department is
requested as to the advisability of authorizing the -.
113
mn

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
#一
894.
851g.114 Narcotics/66
FOR
SEE
Saigon
Scotten
) DATED
Mar. 16, 1934.
FROM
TO
NAME
1 -1127
4 NARC OT iC
REGARDING:
ben
Japan has be actively att-mpting to increase drug addiction
in North China and Manchuria and they are selling large quantities to these
areas.
0
4
114
mn

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.
114 NARCOTICS
893.114 Narcotics/699
#9379
SEE
FOR
Shanghai
Cunningham) DATED
Var. 21, 1934.
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Recent Opium situation in Shanghai. Encloses report of the police of the
International Settlement, relative to - where Japanese and Cantonese were engaged in
the manufacture of narcotics.
Japanese, - . G. Nagasawa accused.
5
G

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.93)
EE
OSAKA MAINICHI & TOKYO NICHI NICHI
APRIL 17, 1934.
5
6
Division of
RU AFFAIRS
MAY2-21934
MAY -534
G
fee
artment of State
894.114 NARC0TICS/1
Guilty of Dope Traffic
Sennosuke Asai, alias Shinso Otake,
co-partner of the Dance Palace, Ama-
gasaki; near Osaka, was found guilty
of violating the narcotic regulations
and the tariff law in his examination
at the Osaka District Procurators'
Office on Monday. He was detained
at the Kita branch prison April
and wás arraigned Monday noon
9
MAY 8.1934
FILED

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.93)
May 5 1884
In reply refer to
FE 893.114 Narootios/
Z
Attention: Bureau of Narcotios
89
44
11
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
4 NARCOTICS
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and enoloses
herewith, for the information of the Aoting Commissioner
of Narootics, copies of two articles appearing in THE
PEIPING CHRONICLE of Maroh 24 and Maroh 27, 1934, respec-
tively, entitled "Japanese in the Dope-Drug Trade" and
"16 Arrests Made in Drug Faotory Raid in Peiping".
There is also enolosed herewith a copy of an artiole
whioh appeared in the PEKING AND TIENTSIN TIMES of Maroh 28,
1934, entitled "Ant1-Drug Campaign".
Enclosures:
FrOm THE PEIPING CHRONICLE
Maroh 24, and March 27, 1934;
May5 1984
From the PEKING AND TIENTSIN
TIMES, Maroh 28, 1934.
tw
TE :EMF
FF.
4/5/34

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
THE PEIPING CHRONICLE, SATURDAY,
MARCH 24, 1934.
Japanese in the Dope-Drug Trade.
Speoial to the Peiping Chronicle
Cases in Point
HARBIN, March 17.--Would you not be amazed and, in a sense,
shooked to see, quite by chance, at the police station,
a venerable old man, and seemingly not on the lowest rung
of the sooial ladder, leading a chained young man? And
asking the officer in charge to lock up the young man, who
happens to be his son, for a couple of months, as the last
and sole means of curing the young man's narcotic habits?
Such a scene took place recently at the local police station
when a Russian brought his son, a young man of 20 years old
to the station, chained as if he were a slave with long and
rusty shackles, and asked the officer to lock up the captive.
Since the narcotic vice is not a crime in "Manchukuo"
but, in case of the opium smoking, is on the contrary a
substantial item of fiscal revenue, the police could not oblige
the old man by jailing his son, and the couple were sent back
to find other means of salvation. A moment after, the addiot
himself appeared before the officer and asked him to jail him
for a month or two as the sole means of curing him of the
habit. In another case, the distressed father hired a special
attendant, of athletic proportions, to watch every movement
of his son; this, however, was utterly futile for the young
man, at the first unguarded moment, ran away and was next
day found in a well known dungeon in the last stage of stupor.
Harbin a Distributing Centre
This city has long been noted as a distributing centre of
a thriving narootic trade. Despite the real efforts of the
former Chinese authorities, it has never been suppressed, the
prime reason for this being the fact that the trade has large-
ly been in the Japanese hands. Now, with the legalization of
the opium smoking, when one may buy from the government agents
as much opium as one's pocket will permit, the evil is spread-
ing with disastrous rapidity, affecting the hitherto immune
class of population--the Russians. The possibility of pro-
ouring opium at every turn has led to the opening of innumerable
"seoret" drug factories, turning out opium derivatives in
quantities surficient to poison the entire population of Man-
churia; and the owners and operators of these factories again
happen to be the Japanese subjeots.
One of these hideous places, through which the drug is
being infused into the entire Harbin population, and which
is likened by many to a gigantio spider whose web is thrown
over the entire town, is situated in the centre of the city--
in the alleyway opening into Novogorodnaya street and is
owned and operated by a Japanese. It was opened not long
ago by a newoomer and is registered as a pharmacy. At least
so says a huge sign hanging over the door. If you stand near
by and wateh the shop, you will be amazed to see what a roar-
ing trade it does. It sells everything appertaining to the
drug traffio--pipes, syringes, drugs of all sorts and des-
oriptions, and in quantities as large as one's purse can
stand, retail and wholesale. Here is a good ground for the
Opium

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Opium Commission of the League of Nations to come and in-
vestigate! I do not wish to say anything about the birth
control appliances, all "made in Japan", which constitute
no small branoh of the business of this worthy, and would
make a good acquisition for any museum dealing with sex
perversions.
Besides being a shop, the pharmacy maintains, in the
rear a sort of divan, or a room, wherein one may indulge in
his or her drug--taking habits free of any interference,
quite openly, and as long as one's health will stand it.
Everybody is welcome--there is no distinotion of age, sex,
or social position. Bring only money; if you have none,
being with you goods or anything valuable, and it will be
"swapped" here, on the spot, for drugs.
Verified Report of Typical "Pharmaoy"
To verify the correotness of the report, the writer has
made a little exploration, and is amazed to see that such
a horrid thing is being openly allowed in a country aspiring
to a place among the civilized nations of the world. From
outside, the shop does not attract attention; it is like a
hundred and one similar shops to be found in every Japanese
town. But the hideousness begins the moment the visitor goes
in and exohanges with the proprietor, or with the attendant,
a sort of cabalistic sign. Then the visitor is led into the
back room, rather dark, and filled by some twenty or thirty
persons, of all ages and nationalities, sitting, lying, or
walking in an atmosphere of dense and suffocating oloud.
Now and then he hears a suppressed inarticulate murmur of the
victim just coming out to the grim realities of life.
I have said that, if the visitor has no money, he may
bring anything valuable and "swap" it for the drug. In fact,
there is a Chinese attendant, a hardened criminal to all ap-
pearance, who "appraises" the artioles brought and haggles
with the viotims. Shaking hands offer to him watohes, rings,
spoons, articles of apparel, often stolen, whioh the next
day find their way into the pawn-shops.
Similar shops can be found in every street of the city,
and, in ninety-five cases out of one hundred, they are run
by Japanese or Koreans. Some of them bear tobacconists',
photo-dealers', stationers' or other signs, and a surprising
side of it lies in the fact that their real trade is well
known to the police, who do nothing to suppress it--it simply
does not concern them.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
THE PEIPING CHRONICLE, Tuesday, Maroh 37, 1934.
16 Arrests Made In Drug Factory Raid in
Peiping
1,Oo0 Ounces of Heroin Seized by Police inside Ho Ping Men
Den Registered as Tooth Powder Establishment by Rich
Proprietor
Central News
PEIPING, March 25. - Good work on the part of plain-
clothes deteotives paved the way to the disoovery and raid
last night of a big heroin dealers' den at house No. 18b,
Hou Hsi Wa Chang, inside the Ho Ping Men (Gate of Peace).
More than 60 packages of heroin (about 1,000 ounoes)
valued at over $30,000, were seized and Liu Jung-hsiang,
the proprietor, together with fifteen workers, was taken
to the police station. Liu, 30, a native of Honan, is
stated to have amassed quite a fortune in this illicit trade.
The place was registered as a tooth powder shop, Liu
outwardly doing business as a dealer in tooth powder of
the "Incomparable" brand. Because he had a very systematic
way of carrying on the trade and escaping the notice of the
polioe, the den was not discovered until last night.
Drug Hidden in Tooth Powder
Liu, it is learned, had been purohasing tooth powder
in large quantities, and then putting heroin in it. The
packages bore the "Ínoomparable" mark. Selling them in
this way had not aroused the attention of the keepers of law.
It was only recently that visits to the place of cus-
tomers of various descriptions attracted the notice of the
police, who then kept a close watoh over the movements of
Liu who went about town in motor-oar.
Yesterday the polioe learned that Liu had reoeived a
new shipment of tooth powder from Tientsin. The goods
arrived at 4 o'olook and it was noticed during their un-
loading that the coolies looked suspicious. At 8 o'clook
a polioe unit broke into Liu's house and disoovered the
iliegal drug.
Prisoners Handed Over to Court
Router
PEIPING, Maroh 26. - Fifteen persons are held in the
Bureau of Public Safety on charges of manufacturing and
traffioking in heroin, known to the Chinese as "white powder."
The

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
The prisoners were arrested on Saturday night when
a party of deteotives raided a house in the south city
and seized more than 1,000 ounces of heroin valued at
#305.000.
The proprietor of the factory, who is among the
arrested, posed as a dealer in tooth powder. After a
preliminary examination the prisoners will be handed
over to the Peiping District Court for trial and punish-
mont.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
PEKING AND TIENTSIN TIMES, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 1934.
ANTI-DRUG CAMPAIGN.
Initiated by Peiping Authorities.
"Dope-Cure" Hospitals Urged.
Clean-Up Causes Panic Among Officials.
Peiping, Mar. 36.
A drastic anti-drug campaign has been initiated by the
authorities of the various official organs in the old capi-
tal. It is understood that the chiefs of various depart-
ments have recently received a strict order from the National
Government holding them responsible for the suppression of
the drug evil among the subordinates under them within a
certain time limit.
At the same time another circular order has been re-
ceived from Nanking by the Municipal Government instructing
it to devise means to establish anti-drug hospitals for the
ouring of the opium habit within two months.
The authorities have been warned that in spite of the
repeated admonitions of the Central Government, the drug
evil has been steadily increasing in an alarmingly rapid
speed until now a large section of members in the civil
service are adddbted to one or the other drug, at the
connivance of their superiors.
The renascence of the nation will be seriously im-
peded if this deplorable condition of affairs be allowed
to continue unchecked.
After the issuance of this order, the authorities of
the various organs shall make a thorough investigation of
the number of members in their employment who are addicted
to the opium habit and force them to get rid of the evil
within a time limit, failing which summary dismassal will
be inflicted.
Subsequently a general anti-opium campaign is now being
started by all official departments. Batohes of subordinate
officials who are known to be drug habitues have been sent
to hospitals for treatment, while each member is required
to afford guarantee of five other colleagues that he is a
non-opium smoker.
A panio is now prevailing among official circles and a
number of opium habitues for fear of being dismissed have
entered hospital voluntarily or are taking medicines pri-
vately to rid themselves of this vice. According to the
regulations promulgated all those who are suspected of be-
ing opium smokers are required to undergo a medical examina-
tion.
It

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
It is also learned that similar drastic action has
also been adopted in many other provinces and municipali-
ties and a large number of officials have been either dis-
missed or censured for opium smoking or drug taking. On
the other hand opium is still sold publicly in many prov-
inces under a semi-government monopoly while poppy is
planted under the encouragement of the local militarists
in the western and northwestern frontier regions and im-
ported into the coastal and interior provinces on the pay-
ment of a tax. At the same time huge quantities of opium
are "smuggled" into Chine by the Japanese and Koreans
every year while heroin and its derivative "Chintan" which
are much more destructive than the evil of opium after
establishing a firm footing in North China are infesting
the regions along the two banks of the Yangtze River
rapidly.
In view of the great convenience and the easiness to
escape detection, the majority of the opium smokers have
taken to heroin since the last few years. Heroin manufac-
tories are known to have been established within the walls
of city and every large town is doing a very prosperous
business, but the local authorities seem to be powerless
in dealing with them since the majority of them are run
by Japanese or Koreans. The utmost the polic can do is
to arrest those Chinese who deal with such drug producers
on their departure from the doors of the manufactories.
- Asiatio.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.92)
In reply refer to
FE 894.114 Narootios/
89
Attention: Bureau of Narootios
4
NAFC
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and
onoloses herewith, for the information of the Commis-
sioner of Narcotios, a translation of an article appear-
O
C.
ing in the KOKUMIN SHIMBUN, a Japanese language news-
paper, on June 14, 1934, entitled "Chaurfeur of 'Green
00
Bus' 1s Chief of Opium Smugglers", whioh was receivad
informally by this Department from the American Embassy
at Tokyo.
Enolosure:
Translation of artiole from
KOKUMIN SHIMBUN, Juno 14, 1934.
JUL
eow
7/2/34
8 1084
FR
20

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY:EMF
FROM THE KOKUMIN SHIMBUN
Tokyo, June 14, 1934.
CHAUFFEUR OF "GREEN BUS" IS CHIEF OF OPIUM SMUGOLERS
Illioit Sale in Manohukuo and Chosen
Arrosted by Metropolitan Polioe Board.
Mr. Kobari, Polioe Inspeotor of the Seccnd Seotion
of the Department of Searoh of the Board of Metropolitan
Polioe, in oooperation with the Department of Polioe of
the Government of Karafuto, asoertained the ohiof of
opium smugglers was in hiding in Tokyo. As a result of
seoret searoh Mr. Kobari has ascertained that the ohief,
Katsushige Nakaya (pseudonym) of l0ll Fijimioho, Naka-no-ku,
is a ohauffour of a "Green Bus". The Police Inspeotor ar-
rested him on the night of the twelfth instant and he is
being detained at the Board of Metropolitan Polios for ex-
amination. Four of the gang were arrested at Karafuto
and the rest are being sought throughout the country.
The gang was keeping in touoh with the brokers in Chosen,
Manohukuo and Taiwan and by induoing the crews of steamers
in coastwise trade to join the gang, they were organizing
 smuggling gang to operate on a large scale throughout
Asia.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
June 18, 1934.
Divicion of
Osaka Asahi.
FAR EASTETN AFFAIRS
JUL31934
Illicit Sale of Opium in Chosen
UL 903 34
Principal Men Arrested
Department of
0
C
Three Men Locked up in Osaka.
RE
As a esult of the arrest of a group of men who have
AI
been selling opium illicitly and systematically throughout
Chosen, the Taikyu Police have ascertained that the leaders
88
of the group are in Osaka. At the instance of the Taikyu
94.114 NARCOTiCS
Police, the Kujo (Osaka) Police arrested Eiji Yanagimoto of
Kochi Prefecture.
Mr. Fujii, Police Inspector, and three others, after
examining Yanagimoto with the assistance of the Chief of the
Detective Section of Osaka Prefecture, arrested a man who
called himself E. Minamiyama, a drug broker living at Sawa-
kamie-cho, Kita-ku, Osaka, and detained him in the basement
of the Osaka Prefectural Office.
When the group of illicit sellers of opium was arrested
6
last May in Taikyu, there was discovered a basket full of
morphine (Valued at Yen 2O00) manufactured by the Dai Nippon
Pharmaceutical Co., Sanchome, Doshu-cho, Higashi-ku, Osaka,
with the mark  . It was found that this morphine was sent
to Chosen through Yanagimoto. Moreover, it was detected thait
a man by the name of Minematsu, of the same gang, had been
FILED
hiding in Hetel Sasaki, Yokobori, Shichome, Higashi-ku, Osak
butthat he had become apprehensive that the police were looking
for him and had run away from his hiding place.
G

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.80)
のモヒ密賣
重要人物捕る
大阪で三名を留置
を張るモル
府刑事課に連行府臨地下室に留
に伴ひ明鮮大邱着
の重戦入物が大阪にるる
さる五月末大卯で密寶開檢事の際大
畝東區道修町三丁目大日本級樂會肚
きとい同書からの手に
製の丸ア印モルヒネ買額二千國が
パスケットに一杯請め込まれて發見
されたが柳本の手を経て朝鮮に流れ
込んだとが判り南山らは右葉品を柳
本へ仲介をしたものである、
の條於其は大脈東區橫細四丁目住
の
格木振話に消伏してるたが当局の手
たのち午後四時北
が理ったのを知り嵐を眺って返亡し
たので捜査中
はか一名を

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.114 NARCOTICS
811.114 N 16 Seizures/976
#546
SEE
FOR
July 6, 1934.
FROM
-) DATED
TO
NAME
1—1127
Japan
REGARDING:
Two seizures of narcotic drugs at San Francisco on June 26, and June 28,
implicating Yahachiro Miyahara and Heigoro Mase. Information relative to -
should be brought to the attention of the Japanese authorities, as the cocaine
and morphine involved in these seizures may have been brought to the U. S. from
Japan.
2
0
20

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.94)
 reply refer to
894.
Jaly 28 1934.
E 094.114 Maroot1os/119
Attention: Bureau or Narcotics
NARC TICS/1
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Homorable the Secretary of the Treasury and encloses
for the information of the Commiesioner of Narootios a
translation of a newspaper item taken from the OSAKA
AsanI dated Jume 18, 1934, in regard to investigation by
2
the Japanese authorities at Osaka or 1llicit trafrio in
morphine shipped to Korea from Japan.
Attention is direoted to the mention of the mark
R.
Enelosure:
FrOm OSAKA ASAHI,
Jume 18, 1934.
0
JUL 28 187
Heas
FE:SJF:EJL
FE
7/28/34

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.96)
PM RECD
THE JAPAN CHRONICLE
July 1, 1934.
Division of
FAR EASTEAN AFFAIRS
AUG7-19
Department of Sta.
AUG - 6 34
894.114 NAR COT iCS/122
OPIUM SEIZED IN SINGAPORE
Rengo to Chronicle.]
Singapore, June 25.
A quantity of opium was discovered here
hidden in the smoking room of the Blue
Funnel s.s. enestheu6, which arrived
here to-day from Hongkong.
Apparently forewarned, police boarded
the vessel on her arrival and found the
opium clevorry concealed behind the
wainscoting.
The estimated value of the drug, which
was seized, is £1,500.
Efforts are being made to trace the per-
son or persons responsible for the attempt
to smuggle it.
894.224 narcotics/122
Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.
23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
FILED
SEF334
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June Jay A. Sept. Oct. Nev. Dec.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2
SE
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
4934
FILE

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
89 4. 114 NARCOTICS/
893.114 Narcotics/795
FOR .....Tel..l.pm
SEE.
PROMTiontsin
-) DATED ...Auguat.2,1934
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING: Japanese seizure of drugs from Chinese magistrate at Changli:
Mail report concerning -.
123
fwd

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
August 27
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Kobe, Japan, July 31, 1934.
34.εgg.
August 27 1984;
894.114 NARCOTiCS/1
SuBJECT: Conviction of Sennosuke Asi for Smuggling
1—1055
4,292 Kilogrammes of Benzyl Morphine.
EHONORABLE
1033
8
HE SECRETARY OF STATE
AN
WASHINGTON
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
instruction of September 25, 1933 (File No. 894.114-
24
894.114
Narcotics), requesting full details of the trial and
conviction in Osaka of a gang of narcotics smugglers
on August 15, 1933, and to this Consulate's despatches
101
Nos. 240 of October 24, 1933, and 262 of December 11,
1933, in reply to that instruction.
Another member of the same group of smugglers and
evidently the co-leader of the gang was convicted by
the Osaka District Court on July 17, 1934 to serve a
sentence of three months' penal servitude and to "pay"
a fine of ¥952,380 and a forfeit of ¥1,586,193.11.
This man was Sennosuke Asai, aged 39, the co-proprietor
of a large dance hall at Amagasaki, near Osaka and the
collaborator of Keiji Kitada who was the chief culprit
SEF1 4 934
in the case reported upon in the despatches cited above.
FILED
Asai, who had been hunted by the Police since
February

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
February, 193l, voluntarily surrendered himself to the
authorities on April 4, 1934 and was indicted in Osaka
for smuggling 4,292 kilogrammes of benzyl morphine
from Hamburg in conjunction with the previously
convicted Keiji Kitada and his confederates. The
transcript of the court record and sentence, furnished
the Consulate by the Chief Procurator of the Osaka
District Court, reveals that the sources of supply were
the same as indicated in Despatch No. 240 under reference:
Leopold Mager, Hamburg.
E. Paul, Hamburg.
Rudowitchgrafe or Ludowici Grefe
(translation from Japanese
dubious), Hamburg.
According to Chief Prosecutor Ryohei Wada, the drugs
smuggled by Asai and Kitada were disposed of as follows:
"With reference to the disposition of the
narcotics smuggled, you are informed that
Benzyl Morphine (390 kilogrammes in quantity)
has been seized as evidence, Benzol Morphine
(about 450 kilogrammes in quantity) was
disposed of at Dairen, and the rest of the
smuggled narcotics, namely, about 2,387
kilogrammes of Benzyl Morphine and about
1,065 kilogrammes of Benzyl Morphine, was
sold through brokers to Sajiro Doi Shoten,
Koraibashi-dori 2-chome, Higashi-ku, Osaka,
and other drug stores, and resold to
pharmaceutical companies. It is believed
that the narcotics sold to the pharmaceutical
companies were refined into heroin and resold
to the drug stores for public use."
The benzyl morphine seized as evidence was ordered
confiscated by the District Court.
The sentence imposed upon Asai was almost identical
with that given Kitada a year ago. The term of penal
servitude -- three months -- and the fine -- ¥952,380
were identical. Asai was assessed a slightly higher
forfeit of 1,586,193.1l, as compared with Kitada's
forfeit

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
forfeit of 1,182,161.47. It is understood that this
forfeit is computed from the market value of the drugs
successfully disposed of by Asai.
As in the case of Kitada the sentence, so imposing
when reported in the newspapers, is largely sham. Thus,
the court ruled that Asai might apply the forty days he
had already spent in jail awaiting trial to the sentence
of three months penal servitude. As in the instance of
his friend Kitada the "fine" of ¥952,380 may be
liquidated by serving 365 days in prison. Messrs. Asai
and Kitada are therefore earning 2,609 a day by
remaining in jail. Mr. Asai, it may be pointed out,
has not yet commenced to liquidate his fine, as he was
released on bail within two days after the imposition
of sentence, preparatory to making appeal to the Osaka
Court of Appeals. In regard to this appeal it should be
pointed out (cf. Despatch No. 262) that in the identical
case the appeal of Kitada et al was denied by the
Japanese Supreme Court; an indication of the probable
fate of Asai's action.
With reference to the payment of the forfeit of
1,586,193.11 it is understood that if the person
convicted is unable to pay his property is subject to
attachment by the State in satisfaction of the entire
sum.
Further developments in regard to the appeal of
Asai will be reported in due course.
Respectfully

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
Respectfully yours,
Homond Ponron
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.
1cc
811.4
RMMcC/mh
In duplicate to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Treasury Attache, Kobe.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.96)
In reply refer to
FE 894.114 Mareot1cs/124
GORFIDENTIAL
Attention: Bureau or Narootics
8
6
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
4
the Henorable the Secretery of the Treasury and enoloses
herewith, for the confidential information of the Commis-
4
siemer of Marooties, a copy of despatoh No. 344, dated
NARCOTICS
July S1, 1954, from the American Consulate at Kobe, in
regard to the case of Sennosuke Asai, oonvicted in Japan
for the illioit traffio in narootic drugs.
In this conneetion it may be mentioned that Sennosuke
Asai is an associate of Katsutoshi Tsumemitsu, No. 33 on
2
the Mareoties Confidential List.
5
Enclosure:
From Consulate Kobe
No. 544, July 31, 1934.
AUG 28 1934
FE:HCS:EJL
FE
mmN
8/27/34
G

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
OONFIDENTIA
Collect
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Charge Department
Departnfent of State
PARTAIR
OR
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
RECETVED
PLAH
Charge to
Washington,
$
034 AUG 7 PM 12 21
VIA NAVAL RADIO
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
August 7, 1934.
AND RECORDS
AMERICAN CONSUL,
SHANGHAI (CHINA).
894.114 NARCOTiCS/126
One. Mail the following to American Embassy at
Tokyo.
QUOTE Report fully/by mail all/d evelopments in
the case of Tsuremitsu reported in the: press/as arrested
at'osaka for violation of/laws controlling narcotics
END QUO TE.
Two. Inform Nicholson/of the above.
Hull
Hea
FE:SJF:EMF
FE
X
894.114 han
CR
Aug. 7 1934
Enciphered by
0
Send by operator
M.,
19.
Indez Bu.-No. 50.
1-128

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, September 3, 1934.
No. 950.
Subject:
Japanese Association for the Relief of
Narcotics Addicts.
Inctruction deafted
894.114 NARCOT iCS/127
to Vokyo + lelters
September 28 1984.
Nul. Nhe Sept.
Division of
77.19343F
STEAFFAIRS
SEP 251934
department of State
SEP 2AA
AM-REC0
Tapy taten
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose herewith a pamphlet
1/
in Japanese (received from the Consulate General at Seoul)
0
and a partial translation thereof, describing the work of
SEP 88 934
the Association for the Relief of Narcotics Addicts and
FILED
outlining a plan for expansion of the activities of the
Association.
The pamphlet, while unable to give the exact number
of addicts in Japan, states that there were 3,700 addicts
in Osaka in 1929 and 3,000 addicts in Tokyo in 1932, when
investigations

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
investigations were conducted. Some 90 per cent of these
addicts, it appears, are Korean laborers.
While the pamphlet does not give much information which
will be of service in the work of suppression of the use of
narcotic drugs throughout the world, it will serve to indi-
cate that the problem of drug addiction is assuming suffi-
cient proportions in Japan to warrant the organization of
an association devoted to the finding of a remedy.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures: Pamphlet in Japanese
Partial Translation.
811.4
ERD:r

=== Page 256 === (confidence 1.00)
(Translation)
PROSPECTUS OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AN
ASSOCIATION FOR THE RELIEF OF NARCOTIC
ADDICTS.
Although the general public is afraid of infectious
diseases, the (Japanese) people seem to be quite indifferent
to the effects of narcotics which contain opium in large
percentages. Nothing can be more absurd than this attitude.
Not only in Chosen, but in Japan Proper as well, narcotics
addicts are increasing in number gradually. An investiga-
tion made by the Osaka Municipality in 1929 indicated that,
in that year, there were some 3,700 narcotics addicts in
Osaka. In 1932 the authorities in Tokyo also conducted an
investigation, when it was discovered that in Tokyo and the
immediate neighborhood some 3,000 out of 34,400 Korean
laborers were addicted to the use of narcotics. It is not
difficult to surmise that such addicts can also be found
among laboring and other classes in Yokohama, Kobe, Fuku-
oka and other large cities of Japan. As time goes on the
number of addicts is rapidly increasing.
It is hardly necessary to point out that persons ad-
dicted to the use of narcotics either become fatally poisoned
or become incapacitated for work of any kind. There have
been many instances of poverty-stricken sufferers from nar-
cotics poisoning resorting to theft and other offenses in an
effort to obtain money with which to purchase drugs or medi-
cines, in order to relieve their sufferings. Even when
arrested and detained by the police authorities they exhibit
peculiar symptoms, because of the lack of their habitual
drugs, and have behaved as if insane, eventually collapsing
entirely. The police have therefore been obliged to free
them. Once released, they have repeated their offenses
against the law.
The question naturally arises as to whether or not
there are laws and regulations providing for the relief and
protection of sufferers from narcotics poisoning in Japan.
No such regulations are yet in force. There are only two
or three private relief establishments which have been or-
ganized by Japanese and Korean individuals in recent years
and which are imperfect in their functioning. As a natioanl
organization, the present Association was formed in Tokyo
in 1933 for the treatment of sufferers from narcotics poison-
ing and for the suppression of narcotics addiction.
Regulations of the Association for the
Relief of Narcotics Addicts.
Art. 1. The Association shall be named "The Associa-
tion for the Relief of Narcotics Addicts" (Mayaku Chudoku-
sha Kyugo-Kai).
Art. 2.

=== Page 257 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Art. 2. The Association shall have its offices in the
Tokyo Young Men's Christian Association Building at No. 3,
Sanchome, Mitoshiro-cho, Kanda, Tokyo.
Art. 3. The Association has for its object the pro-
tection and treatment of addicts and sufferers from the
habitual use of morphine, heroin, cocaine and other nar-
cotics containing a large percentage of opium, as well as
the suppression of the habitual use of narcotic drugs.
Art. 4. The Association shall fulfill the following
functions in the attainment of its objects:
a. The establishment of offices for the treatment
and protection of sufferers from narcotics
addiction.
b. The investigation and study of narcotic drugs
and narcotic poisoning.
c. Social movements for the suppression of the
habitual use of narcotic drugs.
d. The guidance of addicts under treatment.
e. Other matters especially necessary for the
attainment of the above-mentioned objects.
Art. 5. The Association shall have the following
officers:
Directors, less than ten in number.
One Managing Director and two fixed directors.
Several counselors.
Two auditors.
Several advisers.
Art. 6. The term of office of the directors shall be
two years, and one-half shall be elected each year. The
term of office of the counselors shall be three years and
they may stand for re-election.
Art. 7. After the termination of the term of office of
the directors, they shall remain in office until their suc-
cessors have assumed their duties.
Art. 8. The Managing Director shall be the legal re-
presentative of the Association and shall supervise its
affairs. The fixed directors shall manage all affairs of the
Association in accordance with instructions from the Managing
Director. The advisers and counselors shall reply to in-
quiries from the Managing Director in regard to important
affairs of the Association. The auditors shall inspect the
assets andbusiness condtion of the Association.
Art. 9. The directors shall organize a directors'
council and formulate resolutions for the carrying out of
the business of the Association. Meetings of the directors'
council

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
council shall be called by the Managing Director, who
shall assume the dtity of chairman.
Art. 10. The Directors' Council shall meet once each
year, but the Managing Director may, if deemed necessary,
call an extraordinary meeting.
Art. 1l. The members of the Association shall be of
the following three classes:
Honorary members.
Special members.
Ordinary members.
Art. 12. The assets of the Association shall be
composed of the following:
Subscriptions by members.
Subventions from governmental and public
offices as well as contributions from indi-
viduals.
Income from property of various kinds.
Other income.
Art. 13. The expenses of the Association must be
covered by the income.
Art. 14. The assets of the Association (except
immovable property) shall be deposited with banks of good
standing or with post-office savings banks. The assets
may also be converted into international securities or
other negotiable securities of sound character.
Art. 15. The annual budget of the Association shall be
passed by the Directors' Council.
Art. 16. The fiscal year of the Association shall be
from April 1 to March 31 of the following year.
Art. 17. The Association may, if deemed necessary,
appoint a manager or managers, chief clerks, ordinary clerks,
etc.,
Art. 18. Detailed rules for the carrying out of the
rules and regulations relating to accounts shall be especially
drawn up.
Art. 19. The following directors were appointed at the
time of organization of the Association:
Managing Director: Mr. Hanpei Nagao.
Fixed Director: Mr. Takayuki Ikuye.
Directors: Mr. Masasuke Masutomi and seven others.
Auditors:
Mr. Daikichiro Tagawa
Mr. Tsunejiro Matsuyama.
Counselors: 37 names, including Mr. Kenkichi
Yoshizaya,

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Yoshizawa, formerly Minister for Foreign Affairs;
Dr. Bowles; Mrs. Hideko Inouye; Mrs. Yoneko Imai;
Mr. Tsurukichi Maruyama, formerly Superintendent
of the Metropolitan Police; Mr. Choichi Ariyoshi,
formerly Mayor of Yokohama and now a member of the
House of Peers; and Mr. Teizaburo Sekiya, Vice
Minister of the Imperial Household.
REPORT ON RELIEF OPERATIONS.
The Association, which was established on February 17,
1933, opened the first relief station at No. 78 Umeda-cho,
Honda, Kazushika-ku, Tokyo. This station was placed in
charge of a Korean, Cho Sei Ki.
In 1932 there were in Tokyo some 3,000 sufferers from
the effects of the habitual use of narcotics, 90 per cent of
whom were Korean laborers. No accurate statistics are yet
available in regard to the number of such sufferers in all
Japan. Sufferers from narcotics poisoning require about
two yen each day in order to obtain the drugs with which to
free themselves from pain. To satisfy their desire, they
resort to theft and other offences.
In 1933, the Association received from the Department
of Home Affairs a subvention of Yen 1,O00. The Association
also received from the Tokyo Municipality the sum of Yen
1,000 to assist it in carrying out its operations. The
first relief station is composed of rooms for medical treat-
ment, rooms for the medical staff, baths, kitchen, etc
Attention is called to the fact that the staff of the
relief station devised a special medical treatment which
was practiced on sufferers who voluntarily applied for this
special treatment. Under this treatment, sufferers are
confined in special rooms and are prevented from taking nar-
cotics in any form whatever, nurses being constantly in
attendance. After five days, the sufferers exhibit the
peculiar symptoms resulting from the withdrawal of narcotics
and begin to suffer intense pain. After another week of
the special treatment, the sufferers show signs of improve-
ment and are removed to ordinary rooms. The patients are
then compelled to engage in labor for a short time each day,
and after three months more they are usually able to earn
their living as ordinary laborers. Special working quarters
are provided in the relief station, where special work, ac-
cording to the patient's capacity, is assigned to each
patient. Although the methods of treatment are complica-
ted, the medical and other members of the staff of the
relief station are eager to carry out their duties and hope
to enlarge the scope of operations of the station in the
future.
The Association is not yet widely known to the Japanese
public, and therefore the Association is still experiencing
difficulty in collecting contributions from various quar-
ters. It is reassuring, however, to note that both official
and

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
and private quarters, including the Metropolitan Police
Board, are now beginning to support the Association with
the financial aid which it needs.
Following are estimates of the receipts and expen-
ditures of the Association for 1934:
Receipts.
Contributions
Yen 7,650.
Operating income
n 1,030
Miscellaneous income
2.245
Total
Yen10,925.
Expenditures.
Salaries and wages
Yen 3,344.
Medical, food and other supplies..
n
5,979
Special working quarters.
450.
Maintenance expenses.
1,080.
Miscellaneous expenses
72
Total
....Yen 10,925.
The following table shows the results of the treat-
ment of sufferers in Korea and in the prefectures of Tokyo,
Kanagawa, Niigata and Toyama in Japan, during the period
from December 1, 1933, to May 31, 1934:
December, 1933.
Korea
Japan
Total
Admitted for treatment
23
1
24
Recovered and discharged
0
0
0
January, 1934.
Admitted for treatment
37
1
47
Recovered and disiharged
0
February, 1934.
Admitted for treatment
9
21
11
Recovered and discharged
16
17
March, 1934.
Admitted for treatment
5
0
5
Recovered and discharged
2
1
3
April, 1934.
Admitted for treatment
2
2
4
Recovered and disharged
0
0
0
May, 1934.
Admitted for treatment
9
0
9
Recovered and discharged
5
1
6

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Total admitted for treatment
57
Total recovered and discharged
33
Still under treatment
24
Patients according to age:
Under 20
2
.11
Under 40
33
9
Under 50
2
Patients according to sex:
Men
48
Women
9
The prospectus continues with the Association's plans
for expansion. It points out that narcotics poisoning is a
serious menace to the Japanese people and that the results
obtained by the relief stations already established were
more successful than anticipated. Its object is to exter-
minate narcotics poisoning and it therefore has a very
great responsibility. It must enlarge the scope of opera-
tions of the relief stations and has mapped out a plan.
It wants to purchase a tract of land on the island of
Oshima; off the Izu Peninsula, and there establish a farm
where loo narcotics addicts can be treated at a time. It
is also hoped to establish another relief station where
70 addicts who are unable to engage in the hard labor of
the farm can be accommodated and given easier forms of
manual labor. In this way, some 200 addicts can be treated
at the same time. As they are expected to recover in four or
five months and be discharged, the scheme will permit some
500 addicts to be treated each year. The Association
solicits contributions to the new project, the cost of which
is estimated to be as follows:
Endowment fund .
Yen 200,000
Cost of property, buildings, etc.
262,780.
Reserves for further expansion..
"
10,000
Other reserves
n
5.000
Total
Yen 477,780.
The prospectus then gives the estimated annual receipts
and expenditures of the expanded scheme.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
844g.114 Narcotics/29
FOR ....#3073
FROM _.___Trinidad
(.Demoreat.....) DATED ....Sep.t..1l,..1934....
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Wong Sow Eng: Seizure of drugs of Japanese origin fran
- at Trinidad, B.W.I.
8
fwd
126

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.95)
Trinidad, B.w.I., September 11, 1934.
SUBJECT: Trinidad Customs Authorities seise opium
valusd at $24,000.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
sir:
I have the honor to state that on September , l9s4,
what is believed to be the largest and most valuable seis-
wre of opium ever mmde in Trinidad waa effected by officers
of the Customs nepartment, when a hinese steward named
Wong Sow Eng of the motorahip "Cape Horn", was arrested
while attompting to smuggle a quantity of the drug ashore.
This amount of the concentrated opiun and the balance found
later concealed in the mattress or his bunk is estimated to
be warth $24,000.
an landing, the Chinaman was stopped by a Customs effi-
oer who thought that he looxed too bulky about the middle.
Re was searohed and on him was found a apeoially made waist-
seat of white carvas, with several large pockets, containing
six one-pound tins of the concentrated drug.
This concentrated opium is understood to be of Japanese
manufacture.
As a result of the seisure Wong Sow Eng was convieted
before the City Maglstrate and fined ees0 or 1& months hard
laber.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.94)
—2-
As he could not pay the fime he was sent te prieon.
A heavy deposit has been levied on the vessel panding
inquiries.
The "Cape Horn", which arrived in Trinidad from Cardiff
bringing eoal for the Trinidad Government, originally sailed
from Shanghai under Captain E. S. Wilkie.
The route of the vessel was as follows: Shanghai, May
18, 1934, Darien, May 21, Vancouver, June 15, Chemmimus, June
16, Port Alberni, June 23, Los Angeles, Jume 27, the Panama
Camal, July 8, London, August 14, Cardiff, August 31, and
Trimided, September 5.
Thore is attached hereto a copy of the Trinidad Constab-
ulary's specimen slip showing Wons Sow Eng's fingerprints, and
full detailed desoription. There is also attached a photo-
graph ahowing his profile and full face, and furthermore a
photograph showing the white canvas waistooat and opium tins.
Respectfully youre,
Alfelo Lilemorest
Alfredo L. Demorest,
Amerioan Vice Conmul.
811.4
ALD/WP
Enclosures as stated.

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.92)
September 28 1934.
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
00
6
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and
onoloses herewith, for the information of the United
States Publio Heal th Service, a copy of despatoh No. 950,
4
dated September 3, 1934, from the Amerioan Embassy at
NARCOTi CS/12
Tokyo, together with a copy of a partial translation of
a pamphlet, whioh has been retained in this Department,
in regard to the work of the Association for the Relief
ef Narootio Addiots and outlining a plan for expansion
of the activities of the Association.
Under daver of a separate letter, a copy of the
6
translation under mference is being sent to the Comis-
sioner of Narcotios.
Enolesure:
No. 950, September 3, 1934,
Aeof
from Tokyo, with one enclosure.
ER √sum
9/29/84
FE:HOB:EUF
Sep.27?
B

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.93)
September 28 1984.
Attention: Bureau of Narootios
The Sedretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and
emeloses herewith, for the information of the Commis-
sioner of Narootios, a copy of despa toh No. 950, dated
September 3, 1934, from the American Embassy at Tokyo,
together with a copy of a partial translation of a
pamphlet, whioh has been retained in this Department,
in regard to the work of the Association for the Relief
of Narootio Addiots and outlining a plan for expansion
of the aotivities of the Assooiation.
Under cover of a separate letter, a copy of the trams-
lation under reference is being sent to the Publio Health
Service.
à tue apy of
Enclosure:
No. 950, September 3, 1934,
inal
from Tokyo, with one enolosure;
Gopy of this letter
vay
N
CR
0/29/34
Sep. 27 1934
S

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.90)
no.598
Sectenter 28 1984.
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
894.114 NARCOTI CS/130
The Department has received and read with interest
despatch No. 950, dated Sep tember 3, 1934, from the
American Kmbassy at Tokyo, in regard to the work of
the Assooiation for the Rolief of Narcotic Addicts, and
will be interested to receive from the Embassy in future
reports concerning the development of the Association
and of its work, together with any other data conoerning
marootie addietion in Japan, from time to time as informa-
tion may become available.
894.114 Naroot1cs/127
FB:HCS:FMP
9/27/34
G
8
A trve
CR
op. 27 134 24

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
PM RECD
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
5
5
COM
8RE
October 934.
Divisibn of
OCT. 3 34
FORFOSTEYAFFAIRS
OCT 41934
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
Depag
Sir:
894.114 NARCOT iCS/131
I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your commu-
nication dated September 28, 1934 (FE 894.114 Narcotics/127)
transmitting for the information of the United States Public
Health Service a copy of despatch No. 950, dated September 3,
1934, from the American Embassy at Tokyo, together with a copy
of a partial translation of a pamphlet in regard to the work
of the Association for the Relief of Narcotic Addicts and out-
lining a plan for expansion of the activities of the Association.
Respectfully,
hh Roaerth
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.
100
FILED
C
2
G

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JS
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
FROM
Uctober 12 1934
fore being communicated
TOKYO
to anyone (A)
Dated October 11, 1934
Setter drgftea
12 19
Ack.12.1934
Secretary of State,
Divisionof
894.114 NAK0 T iCS/ 132
FAR FASTERN AFFAIR
Washington, D.C.
0CT121934
file
naecolves
October 11, noon
Granted 3 (2) visa to Hajime Hoshi arriving TATSUTA
MARU San Francisco November 7th allegedly sailing New York
S S CONTE DI SAVOIA November 23rd. HOSHI indicted 1933
for bribing revenue officers in connection with narcotic
smuggling but no conviction obtained. Hoshi President
Hoshi Pharmaceutical Company, Limited, Tokyo, formerly
suspected engaged illicit traffic of narcotics.
GARRELS
MAM HSM
00T 18 934
FILND
G
note
811.111-(xame)

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
FE 894.114 Narcot1cs/132
CONFIDENTIAL
894.
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
.114 NARCOTiCS/133
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary uf the Treasury and
enoloses herewiih, for the confidantial information
of the Commissioner of Narcotius, three oopies of a
paraphrase of a telegram from the merican Imbassy at
Tokyo, dated Ootober 11, l934, noon, in rogard to the
issuanoe of a visitor's visa to Hajime Hoshi, suspected
3
of complioity in the illicit traffio in narcotio drugs.
Enolosure:
Three copies of paraphrase of
telogram from Tokyo, Ootober ll,
1934, noon.
133
Hes
CR
FE1KMF
TE
A
10/12/34
opt. :2

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.91)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM FROM
THE AMERIOAN ENBASSY AT TOLYO ADDREBBED
KO T BEORSTARY OF SPATE, OOTOBER II.
1934. NOON
The Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo reports that a
temporary visitor's vise under Section 3(2) of the
Immigration Aot of l924 has been issued to Hajime
Homhi, who is the President of the Hoshi Pharmmeeutieal:
Company, Limited of Tokyo.
In l933, Hoshi, who formerly was believed to have
been implioated in tho illioit trafric in narcotio
drugs, was indioted on a oharge of bribing revenue
offieers with respeet to traffioking in narcotics,
but was not oonvioted.
The Embassy states that Hoshi is sailing on the
Steamsh1p TArSUTA MaRU due to arrive on November 7,
at the port of San Francinoo. It is alleged that he
will depart from New York on November 23 on the Stoam-
hip CONTE D.: AVOIA.
Heas
FR:HO3:KMP
PE
9
10/12/34

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.92)
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Kobe, Japan, October 3, 1934.
Divicion
W
OCT 23 1934
Deartmen: oi State
SUBJECT:
Arrest of Narcotics Smugglers at Kobe.
1—1055
erO
THE HONORABLE
894.114 NARC0TICS/134
ST
oF
AM
0
0
C5
S
0
WASHINGTON
NOISIAIO
ZSIR;
C
22
DET
9340C1
havethe honor to inform the Department that in
July and August, 1934 the Police of Hyogo Prefecture
arrested the members of a large group of narcotics
smugglers who from 1929 to 1931 engaged in the illicit
shipping of drugs to the United States and Asiatic
countries.
The alloged smugglers have not yet been brought to
trial, but the evidence produced against them seems
conclusive of their guilt. There is enclosed a copy of
894.114nav
a translated letter received from the Governor of Hyogo
Prefecture, Mr. Takesuke Shirane, which gives complete
details of the case as far as it has developed to date.
The Consulate will report upon the outcome of the trial
OCT 94 *
as soon as the decision of the court is reached.
G
Respectfully

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.95)
-8-
Respectfully yours,
Honond Ponnon
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.
20.85
Encfosure:
No. 1. Copy of letter of October 1, 1934
from Governor Shirane of Hyogo
Prefecture, Kobe, Japan.
811.4
RMoC/mh
2 cC
In duplieate to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate, Rangoon.
Copy to Consulate, Bombay.

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 1 to despatch No. 384 of Mr. Howard Donovan,
n Consul at Kobe, Japan, dated October 3, 1934, on
bjeet: Arrest of Narcotics Smugglers at Kobe.
COPY
(TRANSLATION)
Kobe, October 1, 1934.
Howard Donovan, Esquire,
American Consul,
Kobe.
Sir:
With reference to your letters of September 27th
and August 2nd and 20th concerning the alloged
smugglers of narcotic drugs, I have the honor to
furnish you with the following information. Please
note that the delay in replying to you was due to
the fact that at the time of receipt of your previous
letters this office was still hunting for some of the
culprits and was not in a position to give information
in the premises.
1. Names, addresses, and occupations of the smugglers:
Shigeo Kawasaki, 38, maker of canvas goods,
1/2 Sakae-machi 3-chome, Hiroshima-shi.
Giiohiro Asahi, 40, druggist,
12 Imazato Kita-dori 3-chome, Higashiyodogawa-ku,
Osaka.
Shoji Takahashi, 48, insurance agent,
7 Chishima-cho l-chome, Minato-ku, Kobe.
Kanjo Yugi, 58, foreign trader,
58 Bingodo, Yawata, Nada-ku, Kobe.
Eizo Matsumoto, 31, fireman on board the
Osaka Shosen Kaisha Steamer BORNEO MARU.
Kosaguma Noguchi, 38, carpenter on board the
Osaka Shosen Kaisha Steamer BORNEO MARU.
Shizuo Okamoto, 37, no occupation, address unknown.
Sadaichi Aiga, 36,
n
n
A certain Morizawa, 65,
n
2. Criminal actions:
1.
Kawasaki, in league with the above-mentioned
Asahi, Okamoto, Morizawa, and members of the crews
of the S.S. BORNEO MARU and other ships, shipped
nareoties without permission of the proper authori-
ties to Seattle, U.S.A., Rangoon, British Dominions,
and Sainan, China, seven times during the period
from

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
from about June, 1929 to about February, 1931.
The narcotics smuggled were:
Hydrochlorate of Coccain -- 36/37 cases
(25 ounces per case)
Hydrochlorate of Heroin --- il casos
(25 ounces per case)
Hydrochlorate of Morphine - 2 cases
(one pound per case)
2.
Takahashi smuggled two cases of hydrochlorate
of coccain (25 ounces per case), l00 bottles of
hydrochlorate of the same drug (five grams per
bottle), and three bottles of hydrochlorate of
morphine (five grams per bottle) to Tacoma, U.S.A.,
and Bombay, British India, in league with Ásahi,
Noguohi, and members of the crew of the O. S. K.
steamer ARABIA MARU, during the period from about
December, 1930 to about January, 1933.
3.
Noguchi obtained three bottles of hydrochlorate
of morphine (5 grams per bottle) from Takahashi
about Ootober, 1932 and smuggled them to Belawan,
Sumatra, carrying them by stealth on board the
BORNEO MARU whereof he was a member of the crew
at that time. Matsumoto obtained one hundred
bottles of hydrochlorate of coccain from Takahashi
about January, 1933 and smuggled them to 'Bombay,
British India, carrying them by stealth on board
the S.S. BORNEO MARU, whereof he was then a member
of the crew.
4.
Aiga, in league with Yugi, smuggled to
Shingishu, Chosen, seven bottles of hydrochlorate
of heroin (5 grams per bottle) which he had
obtained from the above-mentioned Asahi.
In order to make a big fortune, all the culprits
shipped the narcotics without the permission of the
Home Minister, violating the law controlling the
narcotic drugs. After the examinations were made by
the Section of Penal Affairs, of this government, the
case was referred to the Kobe Local Court and it is
expected that these alleged smugglers will shortly
be indicted and brought to trial.
Respectfully yours,
Takesuke Shirane,
Governor of Hyogo-ken.
jt
A trur cop of
the signed urig.
nal.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
E
ONIATIONS
 S
THE JAPAN CHRONICLE
DIVISION OF
Sept. 20, 1934.
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
94 0 2
0ET 291934
Fuele
Department of State
JEHOL OPIUM RING
JAPANESE COUNTER-CHARGE
Tientsin, Sept. 14.
60
High officials of the Chinese national
and Chihli Provincial governments were
SMUGGLERS HEADQUARTERS IN
charged with deriving huge profits from
TIENTSIN JAPANESE CONCESSION
the illegal traffic in narco ics by a group
of Japanese and Manchurian dope peddlers
recently rounded-up by Japanese consular
KWANTUNG ARMY'S REPLY
police and gendarmes in the demilitaris-
ed zone in North China, Rengo learned
Rengo to Chronicle.]
to-day from unimpeachable sources.
Nanking, Sept. 14.
The arrested men have been brought
Evidence of organised smuggling of
here for examination before being turned
opium and other drugs on a large scale
over to the responsible authorities for
from Jehol into North China has, it is
punishment.
claimed, been unearthed as a result of
According to their testimony, arrange-
extensive investiga ions by the Chinese
ments were recently completed between
au.horities, which reveal that the narcotic
the ring-leaders and the officials for the
agents have their headquarters in hotels
transporta ion of 45 cases of Chinese
in the Japanese Concession at Tientsin.
opium through the demilitarised zone. An
It is alleged that opium of Peh Kou,
"understanding" had allegedly been
Si Tu, and Liang Chow has an extensive
reached with the Japanese military.
sale in Nor.h China and of the three
The movement of this shipment of
the first is the most popular. Peh Kou
drugs, however, concided with the cam-
is the name given to opium from Jehol.
paign against Japanese, Korean, and
894.114 NARCOTiCS/135
Every year in the months of June and
Manchurian peddlers launched by the
July, narcotic rings with headquarters in
Japanese military authorities in com-
holels in the Japanese Concession at
pliance with the terms of agreement
Tientsin have sent their agents to Jehol
reached at Dairen between Lieutenant-
to purchase opium and snuggle it into
Colonel Kaneshiro Shibayama, assistant
Chinese territory for sale in North China.
Military Attaché to the Japanese Legation,
The rings are said to work closely in co-
and Mr. Yin Tung, director of the Peking-
operation with the Manchukuo author-
Mukden Railway and an emissary of Mr.
ities.
Huang Fu, chairman of the Peking Branch
Other Chinese opium traders who have
Political Council and was seized. Men
no connection with Manchukuo have also
who accompanied the shipment were also
attempied on several occasions to smuggle
captured.
opium from Jehol, but they have been
arrested and executed for "anti-Man-
ARMY ANNOYED
chukuo activities." Undesirable foreign
Japanese military au.horities here de-
elements have made use of this oppor-
clined to discuss the purported state-
tunity to establish an opium monopoly
ments of the arrested peddlers on the
in the Luantung area. The purchase,
ground that the investigation was still
transportation, and sale of opium is car-
under way.
ried on there under armed protection,
They, however, stated that they were
according to the revelation made here
"very much annoyed" by the irrespon-
io-day. As a result the sale of opium
sible statemenis of a group of Chinese
in the Luantung area has grown alarm-
officials who are attempting to cover up
ingly, especially at Tongshan.
their complicity in these smuggling
It is further alleged that the narcotic
activities by charging that we are afford-
rings at Tientsin are smuggling opium
ing "military protection" to such ship-
894.114av
from Tongshan inio Tientsin for distribu-
ments.
tion and sale in various districts in
"If these Chinese officials do not de-
North China. The Chinese authorities,
sist from casting slurs upon the honour
it is pointed out, are unable to check
of the Japanese army by charging that
their operaions as the drug is being
we are taking a hand in the smuggling
transported by railway and steamer as
of opium by labelling such shipments as
"military supplies" under armed pro-
"military supplies," we shall have to con-
tection.
sider steps that will make them halt."
The question of opium suppression in
These steps, one officer indicated, would
the Luantung area and in North China
consist in giving full publicity to the
is siated to be causing the Chinese Gov-
confessions of the smugglers.
ernment much concern and the author-
ities are devising ways and means to
overcome their present diffculties.
OCT 84 1R34

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
THE JAPAN CHRONICLE
Sept. 21, 1934.
CCT 23 1934
Department of State
As usual in North China opium
scandals, there is a good deal of mutual
recrimination between Japanese and
Chinese regarding the reports of whole-
sale smuggling of Jehol opium over the
Wall. The army authorities are reported
to be very much annoyed at the reports
that opium goes through as "military
stores." It is, however, a very wide-
spread belief in China that the refusal
of the army and navy to allow their
stores to be inspected by the Customs
covers a great deal of smuggling of
dutiable goods. In Shanghai the belief
takes such extravagant forms as as-
severations that the stocks of Japanese
department stores come through in this
privileged manner. It is not to be sup-
posed that the army would condescend
to conspire with commercial people; but
if it claims special privileges fairytales
are sure to be invented.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
THE JAPAN CHRONICLE
September 22, 1934.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Division
OCT 23 1934
DRUG DEALERS
Department of State
MASSACRED
CHINESE FARMERS WIPE OUT A
KOREAN GANG
UNREST IN HOPEI
Rengo to Chronicle.]
Tientsin, Sept. 15.
A Chinese Government official was
interviewed to-day regarding the alleged
murder a few days ago of a Japanese
army contrac.or at Lintoutin, Hopei pro-
vince, and the massacre last week of a
number of Koreans by farmers at
Fushanssu, a town in the Lautung district
of Hopei.
He declared that the Koreans involved
in the Fushanssu incident were heroin
dealers who attempted to intimidate the
villagers because a suspicious militia-man
had fired a warning shot.
The headman of the village, he said,
agreed to pay a certain amoun: of money
to the Koreans in order to be left un-
molested. The Koreans together with
their Chinese comrades, however, de-
manded a larger sum, and the headman
unable to meet their demands, fled from
the village.
He further declared that the Koreans
then seized the villagers, who were later
relcased by the militia. It was then that
the villagers taking the law into their
own hands, allegdly massacred the in-
vaders.
Regarding the death of the army con-
tractor, the official asserted that he had
been murdered by bandits after having
been warned by the militia of the pos-
sibility of danger.
Meanwhile, a conference of representa-
tives of Koreans residing in the de-
militarised zone of Peiping and Tientsn,
was held in the Japanese area of Tientsin
yesterday. It was decided to organise a
committee to watch developments and to
formulate demands, including the re-
covery of the bodies and the punishmen
of the villagers. It was also decided to
demand official guarantees of protection
and compensation for the relatives of the
victims.

=== Page 279 === (confidence 1.00)
THE JAPAN CHRONICLE
Sept. 26, 1934.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Division
OCT 23 1934
Department of State
AEROPLANES USED FOR DRUG
SMUGGLING
Rengo to Chronicle.1
Canton, Sept. 20.
Aeroplanes are being used for illicit.
drug traffic in Hunan. Kwangtung and
Kwangsi provinces, according to a sensa-
tional story published in to-day's vernacu-
lar newspapers.
It is alleged that large quantities of
opium and heroin from Kweichow are
being transported to Hungkiang, in
eastern Hunan, and from there are dis-
tributed in Kwantung and Kwansi by
aeroplanes.
The story alleges that the recent arrest
of General Huang Fei, chief of the Hunan
Air Corps, is connected with the scandal.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
THE JAPAN CHRONICLE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 50, 1934.
OCT 23 1934
Department of State
objecting in particular to the statement
DRUG DEALER'S LAST
that opium production in China is prac-
tically un-restricted. The speaker added
SPEECH
that originally it was to be mentioned
in the report that produetion was in-
creasing, which is by no means the same
thing, he said.
ADDRESSES CROWD WHICH
Continuing his address, Mr. Hoo then
GATHERS TO SEE HIS EXECUTION
said that a number of measures were
taken by the Chinese Government since
last May, destined to improve the drug
CHINA'S RUTHLESS CAMPAIGN
situation. These measures, the Chinese
delegate said will be rigorously applied
Rengo to Chronicle.]
and are directed both against manufac-
Peiping, Sept. 24.
tured drugs and opium. Regulations hit
Before a large crowd, a notorious
the former more drastically, he said, as
heroin dealer named Feng Jui, himself
China intends suppressing manufactured
an addict, was executed at the Bridge
drugs before tackling the opium problem.
of Heaven here this morning under
Extremely severe punishments have,
orders from General Chiang Kai-shek.
therefore, been introduced as regards
Prior to his execution, the condemned
drugs, including even the death penalty.
man asked for permission to make a
speech. This was given and, with the
HOSPITALS FOR ADDICTS
utmost composure, he admitted his guilt
On the other hand, hospitals have been
and warned other offenders to mend
opened for narcotic addicts in various
their ways and thus avoid the penalty
Chinese centres, where drug fiends are
he was about to pay for his misdeeds.
sent by force and all these regulations are
After the execution, a photograph of
carried out ten days after they are re-
the body wās taken. Copies of the pic-
ceived by provincial authorities, which
shows the importance attached China to
ture will be printed and distributed with
a proclamation warning the public
this question, Mr. Hoo added.
As regards the opium problem, he said
against trafficking in drugs.
that the Chinese Government had to
Feng Jui was the third man to have
authorise the use of this narcotic in cer-
been executed here in recent weeks for
tain cases, particularly for aged people.
dealing in drugs, the other two being
These exceptions are to be made in
a police-station chief and a constable.
order to prevent opium addicts from
Further executions for the same offence
using some other drug.
are expected in the next few days.
As regards poppy growing, Mr. Hoo said
LEAGUE DELEGATE'S REVIEW
that the new regulations provide for
Havas-Rengo to Chrcnicle].
suppression in from one to six years. The
Cleneva, Sept. 26.
new rules are to be enforced by special
inspectors and even by the troops, if
Speaking this morning during the dis-
cussion on Opium, continued by the
necessary.
The speaker then made reservations as
League Assembly's Commitiee on Social
regards the figures in the Committee's
and General Affairs, Mr. Victor Hoo,
report concerning imports of anhydrous
Chinese delegate said that China had
agety acid to China. The National Com-
more serious reasons than any other
mittee for suppression of opium, he said,
country to complain of drug imports into
had suggested regarding this substance as
her territory.
a drug, which shows that the question is
In support of his statement, Mr. Hoo
being studied.
reminded the Committee that Coca leaves
Thus, all measures deemed expedient to
are nót cultivated in China and that
cope with drug fiends, have been taken
China therefore, cannot manufacture
by the Chinese Government, Mr. Hoo said,
cocaine. The Chinese delegate also re-
but the co-operation of other countries
called instances of a large number of
in the matter is indispensable to China.
confiscations of narcotics arriving in
Chia from Europe.
APPEAL TO POWERS
Mr. Hoo expressed his regrets that. the
The Chinese delegate then said that
illegal drug traffic has not decreased, at
closer co-operation is being achieved be-
the same time stressing the point that
tween China and the powers having con-
the chief aim to be reached is the de-
cessions on Chinese territory, and con-
crease in the number of drug addicts in
cluded by launching an appeal for the
general.
co-operation of all countries concerned,
The speaker added that coneignments
quoting the famous dictum of Confucius:
of nercotics have been confiscated during
"Don't do unto others what you don't
the- part of China's territory which at
want to be done unto you."
present is not under her control.
Mr. Hoo then made certain reserva-
tions as regards the League Committee's
report on the drug situation in China.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 4,1934.
No. 995.
Subject:
Tsunemitsu, Alleged Drug Trafficker.
CT 224
Divirion
G
0CT 23 1934
894.114 NARCOTICS/136
file
partment of State
2 capies pent to
Tredan
act.2y
1934 
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.114nar
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's instruc-
tion, conveyed by naval radio to the Çonsulate General at
12C
Shanghai as the Department's No. 196. August 7, 1 p.m.,
and thence to this Embassy by mail, requesting the Embassy
to report fully by mail all developments in the case of
Tsunemitsu, reported in the press as arrested at Osaka
100
G
for violation of the laws controlling narcotic drugs.
FILED
Inquiries regarding this case were made of the Osaia
judicial authorities through the American Consulate at
Kobe.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
Kobe, and the Kmbassy has now received reports from that
Consulate to the following effeat:
Mr. Ryohei Wada, the Chief Public Procurator of the
Osaka Distriot Gourt, states that Katsutoshi Tsunemitsu
was arrested as an accomplice of Sennosuke Asai, whose
activities and conviction were reported in Consul Donovan's
174
despatch No. 344, dated July 31, 1934. Tsunemitsu evi-
dently was one of the less important members of the
smuggling gang. His preliminary eramination has been
concluded and the case brought to trial, but the Court
has not yet reached a decision on the case.
Consul
Donovan will be notified when the decision of the Court
is announced.
The Department will be informed of further develop-
ments of the case.
Respectfully yours,
Eduin L. keille
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
811.4
ERD:g
Copy to Consulate General, Shanghai.
Kobe.
n
" American Treasury Attaché, Kobe.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.96)
In reply refer to
FK 894.114 Narcot1cs/136
CONFIDENTIAL
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
894,114 NARCOTICS/137.
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and,
with reference to this Department's communication,
dated August 27, 1934, encloses herewith, in duplioste,
for the confidential information of the Commissioner
of Narcotics, a copy of despatch No. 995, dated October 4,
1934, from the American Embassy at Tokyo, in regard to
the arrest of Katsutoshi Tsunemitsu, No. 33 on the
Narcotics Confidential List.
Enolosure:
No. 995, 0ctober 4, 1934,
from Tokyo, in duplicate.
PE:EMF
FE
10/24/34
TR.
0ot.1984
ius

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.96)
actoter d 18.
In reply refer to
FE 894.114 Narcotics/134
894.114
CONFIDENTIAL
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
NARCOTICS/138
The Seoretary of State presents liis coepliments
to the lionorable the Secretary of the Treasury and
ercloses herswith, in dt licate, for the confidential
information of the Commissioner of Narcotics, a copy
of despatch No. 384, dated october 3, 1g34, from the
American Consulate at Kobs, together with a copy of
1ts enolosure, in regard to the arrest at Kobe, of a
number of persons who from 1929 to 1933 were engaged
in the illicit traffic in narcotic drugs to the United
States and Asiatic countries.
Enclosure:
No. 384, 0ctober 3, 1934,
from Kobe, with enclosure,
in duplicate.
-CR
Oot. 24 1934.
L 10/24/34
FE:HCS:HMP
w

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.114 NARCOTICS/I
SEE
081.94/120
FOR
Letter
) DATED
Oct. 22,1934
反ROM
TO
Treasury Department
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Raigorodetsky and Beerbrayer.Gives
information regarding last known
addresses of -, suspected in connection
with illicit traffic in narcotic drugs.
3
6
med

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 16, 1934.
No. 1011.
Sul ject:
Drug Smuggling Activities of Member of
the Crew of the MANILA MARU.
PI  STATE
Division of
894.11 4 NARCO TiC S/141
2
CAn
NOV 5-1934
EED
5
Dearment of State
Noverbar 6 1984
Copy taken
2cokies sent to
Telasiy, 2on.6,1934
m
Tha Honorable
844.114 Nat
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to enclose herewith a translation
of a news item which was published in the OSAKA ASAHI of
October 2, 1934, concerning the investigations being made
at that time by the Kobe Water Police into reported smugg-
ling of narootic drugs by members of the crew of the Osaka
Shosen Kaisha S.S. MANZLA MARU.
NOV 6 1834
As the article implied that a quarrel which broke
out on the vessel between the third-class cabin boys
and the Chief Steward may have been caused by a dispute
over

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
over the distribution of the profits from drug smuggling,
the Embassy asked the American Gonsul at Kobe to investi-
gate and report on the case. A copy of Mr. Donovan's
2/ report is also enclosed. It will be noted that the
Kobe Water Police have been unable to discover any evi-
dence of the smuggling of narcotic drugs by other members
of the crew than one Sekiyama Kamashige, who was arrested
and convicted in Singapore on a charge of the smuggling
of opium.
Respectfully yours
m9s
Joseph C. Grew.
2
Enclosures:
1/
Copy of translation of item in OSAKA
ASAHI of October 2, 1934.
2/
Copy of Ietter from American Gonsul
at Kobe, dated October 11, 1934.
Copy to American Consulate Kobe.
ERD:1
811.4
4ec

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1011 of October 16, 1934,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
TRANSLATION OF NEWS ITEM IN THE OSAKA ASAHI
October 2, 1934.
The MANILA MARU, an emigrant steamship of the Osaka
Shosen Kaisha, arrived at Moji on October lst from Singa-
pore, homeward bound from Brazil. Immediately upon her
arrival, Mr. Hayashi, the Chief Detective of the Kobe
Water Police, aided by two other members of the Kobe Water
Police Station, prohibited the landing of the crew of the
MANILA MARU and conducted a strict search of the steward's
department. They continued the examination on board the
MANILA MARU after she left Moji for Kobe that afternoon.
The step taken by the Kobe Water Police was prompted
by the fact that when the MANILA MARU was en route to
Brazil, on June 18th, in the Indian Ocean, the third-class
stewards in a body attacked and injured the Chief Steward.
Nine of the ringleaders were sent back to Kobe from Mom-
bassa. During the examination of these ringleaders by
the Kobe Water Police, it appears that it was discovered
that the crew of the vessel smuggled opium on a large
scale at Singapore and other places.
Mr. Yanagisawa, the Chief Mate, said that it was true
than on their outward voyage, Kawashige Okayama, a third-
class steward, aged 31, was arrested at Singapore and
sentenced to i8 months' imprisonment for the smuggling of
opium. He did not think, however, that others were in-
volved in the crime. The cause of the attack on the Chief
Steward was some trivial matter, and Mr. Yanagisawa did
not think that it was due to a fight over the distribution
of profits. At any rate, the entire crew is prohibited
from landing and is being examined.

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No. 1011 of October 11, 1934,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Imerican Consulate, Kobe, Japan,
October 11, 1934.
Edwin L. Neville, Esquire,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
American Embassy,
Tokyo.
Sir:
Reference is made to the Embassy's letter of
October 9, 1934, requesting the Gonsulate to call
upon the Kobe Water Police and ascertain the results
of their investigation of the crew of the Osaka
Shosen Kaisha steamer MANILA MARU in connection with
the drug smuggling activities of one Kawashige
Okayama (sic) and his possible confederates among
the crew.
▲ representative of the Consulate has conferred
with the Chief of Detectives of the Kobe Water Police,
Mr. S. Hayashi. This gentleman states that the case
involves solely Kawashige and no other members of the
crew of the MANILA MARU. According to Mr. Hayashi,
Kawashige, whose correct name is Sekiyama Kawashige,
acted as the carrier of a consignment of opium from
Hongkong to Singapore. Evidently the Singapore
police had previous warning from Hongkong, as they
were on hand at Singapore the moment Kawashige
stepped ashore with his opium, a'nd arrested both
him and the person who came to the dock for the
smuggled drugs. Kawashige is still in jail in
Singapore. Mr. Hayashi added that since the offense
was committed abroad and punishment had been inflicted,
the Japanese police would not arrest Kawashige upon
his return to this country. The representative of
the Consulate thought it best not to observe that
part of the illegal act took place upon a Japanese
ship on the high seas and within the jurisdiction of
Japan.
The Chief of Detectives stated that careful
investigation of the attack of the third class cabin
boys on the Chief Steward of the MANILA MARU on June
18th had revealed that the cause was mutual ill
feeling between the boys and the Chief Steward, in
no way connected with the opium smuggling activities
of Kawashige. Mr. Hayashi declared that the cabin
boys would be brought to trial on charges of assault
but that their arrest had nothing to do with drug
smuggling.
Respectfully yours,
(s) Howard Donovan,
American Consul.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
893.114 Narcot1cs/885
SEE
FOR
89
4
FROM
Mili tary Attache
--) DATED
Nov.2.1934.(Recd)
Japan.
NAME
1-1127
4 NARCOTIC
REGARDING:
Article published by Dr.Sherwood Eddy relative to Opium Trarfic
enclosed and commented upon.
S/I
42
G
M

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.93)
8 1984.
In reply refer to
FE 894.114 Narcotics/141
89
CONFIDEITIAL
4
11
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
NARCOTICS/
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and
enclo sos herewith, in duplicate, for the confidential
information of the Commissioner of Narootics, a copy of
11
despatch No. 1011, dated october 16, 1934, fron the
43
American Smbassy ut Tokyo, together with copies of its
enclosures, in regard to the drug smuggling activities
of a member of the crew of the Steamship MANILA MARU.
Enolosure:
No. 1011, 00tober 16, 1934,
from Tokyo, in duplicate.
Hod
OR
FE:HCS:EMF
FE
11/6/34
Nov.6 1984.
C

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.
SEE
893.114 Narcotics/887
FOR
Tel 539 3pm
.114 NARCOT iCS/144
Shanghai
Cunningham
Nov. 8, 1934.
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
FOR FULLER. Report of a hugh transaction in opium now
under negotiation between Japanese Formosan Government and the opium combine
in Amoy, under the leadership of Yip San Ho, alias Paul Yip. Chen Chang Foo
also implicated.
G
M

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
RECEIVEO
DEPARTMENT OF STATEWASHINGTON
1934 NOV 16 PM 3 59
NOV 1 5 1934
Divivion of
CONFIDENTIALDIV
ll H
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
Department of State
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
Sir:
Attention: Mr. H. Charles Spruks.
894.114 NARC0TICS/145
I have the honor to refer to your confidential
communication, dated October 12, 1934, File No. FE 894.
114 Narcotics/132, enclosing for the confidential
information of the Commissioner of Narcotics, three
copies of a paraphrase of a telegram from the American
Embassy at Tokyo, dated October 11, 1934, in regard to the
issuance of a visitor's visa to Hajime Hoshi, suspected of
complicity in the illicit traffic in narcotic drugs.
There are enclosed herewith two copies of a letter,
dated November 9, 1934, from the District Supervisor, Bureau
of Narcotics, at San Francisco, stating that Hajime Hoshi
arrived at San Franoisco on November 7, 1934, and left for
Los Angeles and Chicago on the following day. You will note
that Customs officers at San Francisco found in one of his
DEC 12 934
hand bags one bottle containing one quarter ounce of cocaine
2
FILED
for which he had no permit and which for that reason was
G
seized by the Customs officers.
It is understood that Hajime Hoshi holds what is known
Buckley awarting
frucher report

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
as a transpacific ticket, with stop-over privileges, to
New York.
Respectfully,
For the Secretary of the Treasury:
Assistant Secretary.
Enclosures

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
TREASURYDEPARTMENT
BUREAU OF NARCOTICS
San Francisco, Calif.,
FA:JWB
November 9, 1934.
PERSONAL AND
In re: Hajime Hoshi - narcotic suspect.
CONFIDENTIAL.
Mr. H. J. Anslinger,
Commissioner of Narcotics,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Anslinger:
Reference is made to your letter of October 12, l934,
relative to suspect Hajime Hoshi. You are advised that this
subject arrived on the TATSUTA MARU on the afternoon of
November 7th and with the assistance of the Customs officers
Narcotic Agents A. W. Roberts and V. D. Carli kept Hoshi under
surveillance on the two days he stopped over in San Francisco.
Hoshi registered at the Sir Francis Drake Hotel where he
interviewed several Japanese, whose names were learned by the
investigating officers in checking automobile license mumbers,
namely: George Sasaki, 472 Sheridan Street, Palo Alto, Calif;
H. N. Nakashita, 6l6 North Sixth Street, San Jose, Calif; Kenji
Kassai, 1l96 Stanyan Street, San Francisco, Calif. These
individuals will be investigated immediately to determine whether
or not they are connected in any way in the handling of narcotic
drugs.
Hoshi left San Francisco on the Lark - Southern Pacific
train - at 8:30 P.M., November 8th for Los Angeles. The Narcotic
Office at Los Angeles was furnished with the necessary information
so that this subject could be investigated during his short stop-
over in Los Angeles. They were also advised to wire you immediately
upon the departure of Hoshi for the east, giving you baggage
mmbers, if any, and the pullman space oscupied by him. Before
leaving San Francisco Hoshi checked a large suit case on his ticket
with the Union Transfer Company of this city, the check number
being 906436. The suit case is a large one and is checked to New
York but it may be taken off at Los Angeles and re-checked, if de-
sired.
On this date I was advised by Frederick S. Freed, Supervising
Customs Agent, San Francisco, that the Customs officers searched the
baggage of Hoshi and in one of his hand bags certain pharmaceutical
preparations were examined and tested but failed to show any narcotic
drugs. However, the Customs officers found among the pharmaceutical

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
preparations one bottle containing 1/4 ounce of cocaine for
which he had no permit and for that reason was seized by the
Customs officers.
Hoshi holds what is known as a transpacific ticket with
stop-over privileges to New York. He has been routed over the
Southern Pacifio to Los Angeles, Santa Fe to Chicago, and Big
Four to New York.
Very truly yours,
(Signed) D. A. Bagley,
Acting District Supervisor
District No. 15.
DAB:G
ce Sup. Cus. Agent.

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.90)
FE
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Kobe, Japan, October 22, 1934.
SUBJECT:
Arrest and Conviction of Narcotics
1—1055
Smugglers at Kobe.
2eopies pent to
Trearing, nov.21,1934
SuF
THE HONORABLE
ÉPA  SAT
November 21 1984
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
10
ANOUNICATIONG
NOV 20 1934
EED
AM
WASHINGTON
Fte
Depa ment of State
5
894.114 NARCOTICS/146
taken
ONY
D
H
I havo the honor to refer to my despatch/No. 384
of
Smugglers at Kobe" (File No. 8ll.4) and in connection
therewith to inform the Department of the conviction of
certain of the smugglers concerned.
The Chief Judge of the Kobe Local Court has informed
the Consulate that the following decision was handed down
894.114 Nar
by his tribunal:
Shigeo Kawasaki and Giichiro Asahi, the principal
offenders, were'sentenced to three months' penal servitude.
Shoji Takahashi and Kanjo Yugi were sentenced to one
month's penal servitude.
The ten day period during which the above-named
persons were kept in jail pending trial is to be deducted
from the above sentences.
NOV 914
G
The other persons under detention by the police --
FMLED
Eizo Matsumoto, Kesaguma Noguchi, Shizuo Okamoto, Sadaichi
Aiga

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.98)
and a certain Morizawa -- were not indicted.
In connoction with the extremely nominal "punishment"
meted to these convicted drug smugglers, reference is
made to previous instances reported by this Consulate
of the leniency with which offenses against the laws for
narcotics control are regarded by the Japanese courts.
The attention of the Department is invited in this
Respectfully yours,
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.
811.4
RMMoC/mh
In duplicate to Department.

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.96)
November 21 1984.
In reply refer to
 894.114 Narcot1cs/146
CONFIDENTIAL
894.
Attention: Bureau of Narcotios
114
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and, with
NARCOTICS
reference to this Department's communication dated Octo-
ber 24, 1934, encloses herewith, in duplicate, for the
confidential information of the Commissioner of Narcotics,
a copy of despatoh No. 393, dated October 22, 1934, from
/147
the American Consulate at Kobe, in regard to the sentences
imposed upon a number of persons in Kobe, who from l929
to l933 were engaged in the 1llioit traffic in narootio
drugs to the United States and Asiatic countries.
Enolosure:
A true copy of
the sied prigi-
No. 393, 00tober 22, 1934,
1.1.
from Kobe, in duplicate.
Nov. 21 198
FR:HCS:KMP
11/81/34
M
eur

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 8, 1934.
No. 1044.
Subject: Tsunemitsu, Alleged Trafficker in Narcotic Drugs.
PM RECD
0 1 34
December 4 1984
2 copies sent
to treain. Wee.4,
894.114 NARCOTiCS/148
1934 
file
34
Copy taten
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's in-
137
struction No. 196 August 7, 1 p.m., and to the Embassy's
136
despatch No./995, dated October 4, 1934, in regard to the
case of one Tsunemitsu, alleged drug trafficker, who is
894.1147av
now being tried in the courts of Osaka.
1/
In this connection there is enclosed a copy of a report
from the American Consul at Kobe, Japan, dated November 2,
DE 5
1934,

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
1934, reciting the latest developments of the case.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure: Copy of letter from Consul at
Kobe, November 2, 1934.
811.4
ERD:r

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.95)
Enciosure No
to despatch
20440240r.8.193450m20
0. 811.4
6/mb
Smbassy at Tokyo
AMERICAN CONSULAR SHRVICE
Ameriean Consulate, Kobe, Japan, November 2, 193e.
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo, Japan.
sir:
Heference 1s made to the Embaesy's letters of
August 14 and september 27, 1964, requesting 1nforma-
ion as to the arrest and trial of one Yatautoshi
Tsunemitsu, an alleged smuggler of narootic drugs.
The Consulate has now been informed by Mr. Ryohei
Wada, Chier Publio Procurator of the Osaka Distriot
Court, that Tsunemitsu was adjudged guilty by the
Osaka D1striot Court on Cotober 25, 1934, on the charge
of violating the law for the oontrol of nareotic druge.
On Oetober 27th Taunomitsu appealed against the
decision of the District Court. The ultimate
disposition of the case is therefore still uncertain.
The Chief Procurator makes the curious statement in
his letter of Cotober 30th that "There is enolosed
herewith a copy of the court decision indicating the
amount of the drugs smuggled, the country from which
smuggled, eto., but it should be borne in mind that
the feete eontained in the decision have as yet not
beem establimhed, in shat the aooused has not admisted
his gullt." (Italies mine.; It would consequently
appear

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.96)
appear shas unless a oenfession can be exscted of
Toumemitsu the appeal may be sustained.
The faots, whether admitted or not by the aceueed,
are mply brought out in the deoision of the Distriet
Court. In this oonneotion there should be read this
Consulate's despatehes No. 240 of Cotober 24, 1933,
No. 262 of December 11, 1933, concerning the ease of
Konj1 K1tada; and No. 344 of July 31, 1934 w1 th rogard
to the conviction of Sennosuke Asai. Tsunemitsu was a
minor accomplice of Kitada and Asai. The disposition
or the narootios amuggled and the firms from whioh they
were secured were indioated in the despatches under
roference.
The following translation of selected portions
of the deoision of the Umaka Distriot Court of Cotober
25th require no explanation
"Katsutoshi Tsunemitou
Cooupation: None
Rogistered domioile: 7 Yorozu-cho, Okayema-shi.
Aotual domioile: 30 Higashikami-maohi,
Tennoji-ku, Osaka,
o/o Usaburo Moritani.
Born September 15, 1898.
Sentenoe :
Katsutosh1 Tsunemitsu is sentenced to
three months' penal servitude and a fine of
lll,000.00. Twenty days during wh1ch he was
in jail mwaiting trial shall be deduoted from
the number or the days of the penal servitude.
In case he fails to pay the fine he shall be
held in a primon workshop for 365 days. 15
tins of Benzil morphine seized shall be
sonfiscated. He is also sentenced to pay an
additional 1mpos1tion of s162,400.00.
Country from which the narootics were muggled:
Germany.
Amount or drugs smuggled:
Benzil Morphine
300 kilograms
Benzol Morphine
200 kilograms
Teunemitsu

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.93)
-8
Toumemitas smuggled the nareoties in league with
Iyeji Kitada and Senmosuke Asai."
The Depertment is by shis time no doubt familiar
with the prastice of Japanese courts in imposing
prodigious fimes which may be liquidated by serring
a relatively short term in jail. The ease of
Tsumemitsu presents no novelty in this respeet. The
Cemsulate will endeavor in due course to aseertain
the result of his appeal.
Respeetfully yours,
Howard Donovan.
Ameriean Consul.
A true co of
the signer urngi-
nal

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
PM RECD
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL.
W
NOV 2 8 1934
334
Instruction
The Honorable
Department of State
drafted to
The Secretary of State
December 10 1934/akgo, Dec.10,
1934m
Sir:
Attention: Mr. H. Charles Spruks.
394.114 NARCOTICS/149
I have the honor to refer to your confidential
communication, dated October 12, 1934, File No. FE
894.1l4 Narcotics/132, in regard to the issuance of a
visitor's visa to Hajime Hoshi, suspected of complicity
in the illicit treffic in narcotic drugs, and to the
142
Treasury Department's reply/of November 15, 1934,
informing you that Hajime Hoshi arrived at San Francisco
on November 7, 1934, and left for Los Angeles and Chicago
on the following day.
It has now been ascertained that Hoshi departed from
New York City on November 23rd last on board the Steamship
Conte di Savoia.
The special representative of the Bureau of Nersotios
et Paris has been instructed by cable to meke a discreet
DEC 12 934
check of Hoshi's movements while the latter is in Europe.
FILED
Respectfully,
For the Secretary of the Treasury:
Atithe Beeittom
Asststant Secretary.
G

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.94)
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STAWASHINGTON
DEC4-1934
File
HHas
1934 DEC 4 PM 2 53
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL.
DEC 3 - 1934
DV
The Honoreble
COMHLMAIONS
AODS
The Secretary of Stete.
Sir:
Attention: Mr. H. Charles Spruks.
I have the honor to refer to your confidentiel communication,
894.114
dated October 12, 1934, File No. FE 894.114 Narcotics/132, in
regerd to the issuance of a visitor's visa to Hajime Hoshi,
suspeeted of complicity in the illicit traffic in narcotic drugs,
and to the Treesury Department's letters of November 15 end
NARCOTIC
November 28, 1954, respectively, informing you of the departure
of M. Hoshi from New York on November 23rd last on board the
Steemship CONTE DI SAVOIA.
There are transmitted herewith for your further
S/150
infermmtion two copies of a letter, dated November 27, 1934, from
the District Supervisor, Bureau of Narcotics, at New York,
894.114nar
enclesing cepies of a report from a Narcotic Agent assigned to
that District, relative to Hoshi's movements while in New York
City.
Respectfully,
DEC 12 1934
FILED
For the Secretary of the Treasury:
3 m10 in dufit
F. A. Birgfeld, Chief Clerk
2CC
G

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
(Copy)
TREASURYDEPARTMENT
BUREAJ OF NARCOTICS
November 27, 1934.
FA:JWB
In re: Hajime Hoshi
Commissioner of Narcotics,
Washington, D. C.
Supplementing my report of November 23, 1934, I am trans-
mitting herewith two copies of an additional report submitted
by Narcotic Agent Harold C. McKenney, relative to the ahove
identified individual.
Frank L. Igoe,
District Supervisor.
FLI/ho
enclosures.

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
(Copy)
TREASURYDEPARTMENT
BUREAU OF NARCOTICS
November 26, 1934.
In re: Hajime Hoshi
Mr. Frank L. Igoe,
District Supervisor,
District No. 2
BUREAU OF NARCOTICS
New York, New York.
Sir:
On November 20th, 1934, I was advised by the management
of the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria, that the above subject had received
a note as follows:
"Be sure and see copy of oil telegram,
signed Red Skin".
I believe the above pertains to an article written by Lionel Hauser
of the World Telegram on November l6th, in which he had a recent in-
terview with the subject at his office, 56 Pine St., NEW YORK CITY.
The above subject communicated with the following:
George Gowdy, c/o Philadelphia Quartz Co.,
121 South 3d St.,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Tanimura,
Osaka, Japan
Dr. T. Mujamoto
Tokyo, Japan
T. Hoshi
Tokyo, Japan.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
To Tanimura, Osaka, Japan, he, Hoshi sent a sample of soap.
To T. Hoshi, he sent a sample of a syringe.
To Dr. T. Mufamoto he sent some printing matter and newspapers.
The investigation of the address 56 Pine St., NEW YORK CITY, showed
that the H. Hoshi Pharmaceutical Company occupied Room 8lO-A, and Room
8lo is occupied by the Hosken Trading Company. These rooms, I believe,
are connecting offices.
Respectfully,
(Signed) Harold C. McKenney,
HAROLD C. MCKENNEY
NARCOTIC AGENT
HCMCK:HUC

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.97)
SUBJECT
TRAFFIC IN
NARCOT1CS/151 TO
NARCOTICS -
J A P A N...
DATE
894.114 NARCCT1CS/151
CASE NUMBER
200.
To
200.
JACKET NO.
No.
JACKET
4
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with office stamp or
notations.
1—1235
F. . GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 192

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.94)
Im reply refer to
E 694.114 Narcot10s/148
December 4 1984
89
CONFIDENTIAL
.114 NARCOTICS/1
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
The Seeretary of State presents his complimen ts
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and,
with reference to this Department's communication
dated October 24, 1934, encloses herewith, in duplioate,
for the confidential information of the Commissioner of
5
Marootics, a copy of despatch No. l044, dated November 8,
1934, from the American Embassy at Tokyo, together with
a copy of its enolosure, in regard to Katsutoshi
Tsunemitsu, No. 33 on the Confidential List.
Enclosure:
No. 1044, November 8, 1934,
from Tokyo, with enclosure,
in duplicate.
M
CHVsin
FE:HQS:EMF
12/4/34
Dec. 4 .034 P.4
zar

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.94)
December 10 1984
CONFJDENTIAL -- STAFF USE ONLY
To the American Consul General,
894.114 NARCOTi CS/1
Tokyo, Japan.
The Seoretary of State refers to the telegram
dated October 11, 1934, from the American Consulate
General at Tokyo, in regard to Hajime Hoshi, suspected
of complicity in the 1llicit treffic in narcotic drugs,
and encloses herewith a copy of a letter dated Novem-
ber 28, 1934, from the Treasury Department in which it is
stated that Mr. Hoshi departed from the United States on
November 23, 1934.
5
2
Enclosure:
From the Treasury Department,
November 28, 1934.
894.114 Naroot1cs/149
HO
FE:HOS1EMF
FE
12/10/34
the sis
M

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
Janunry 4 1986.
 894.114 Narcot1cs/129
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
894.114
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and,
with reference to this Department's letter, dated
September 28, 1934, encloses herewith, for the informa-
NARCOTICS
tion of the Commissioner of Narcotics, copies of two
clippings whioh appeared in THE JAPAN CHRONICLE of
December 1 and December 2, 1934, respectively, in re-
gard to the increase in drug addiotion in Japan.
6/1
5
3
Enolosures:
FrOm THE JAPAN CHRONICLE,
December 1, 1934;
FrOm THE JAPAN CHRONICLE,
December 2, 1934.
Hed
F.
YE:XMF
A
FE
1/2/35
M

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY:KMF
THE JAPAN CHRONICLE
December 1, 1934.
Drug Addicts Inoreasing
LOCAL AUTHONITIES UHGD TO TAIL. GTRICT ACTION
Due to the alurming inorease in the number of opium
and other narcovic poisoning cases among the middle-
olass, the lumpen ano Korean labourers, the liyogo pre-
feotural authorities have been ilstructed by the Home
Orfioe to enforce strict regulations fron next year, in
conneotion with the sale of these drugs by drugstores
and drug manufaoturers, as well as the treatment by
dootors of such patients.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY:EMP
THE JAPAN CHRONICLE
December 2, 1934.
There is said to be an amount of drug addiotion
in Japan suffioiently serious to attract the attention
and exoite the alarm of the authorities. Members of
the middle ulass and Korean labourors are said to pro-
vide most example. or many years the Japanese authori-
ties were content to allow people to make profits by
indulging in a trade that, while it might be legal up to
a oertain point, left legality behind when it came to
the disposal of the drug. The nstural result of this
is that the people who handled it experimen ted with it.
There is no inherent moral quality that prevents Japanese
from beooming addicts. Opportunity is all that is needed,
and we are seeing today the resul ts of past years when
little trouble was taken because there was no visible
addiotion.

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
January 4 1935.
FE 894.114 Narootics/
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and,
with reference to this Department's letter, dated
Soptember 28, 1934, encloses herewith, for the informa-
tion of the United States Public Heal th Service, copies
of two clippings which appeared in THE JAPAN CHRONICLE
of December 1 and December 2, l934, respectively, in
rogard to the increase in drug addiction in Japan.
Enclosures:
FrOm THE JAPAN CHRONICLE,
December 1, 1934;
FrOm THE JAPAN CHRONICLE,
December 2, 1934.
He
F.
FRIEMF
FE
1/2/35

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
6 TREASURY DEPARTMENT
RECEIV:D
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
1935 JAN 11 AM 9 19
January 7, 1935.
DIVISION OF
Divicion
COMMUNICATIONS
The HonorableAND RECORDS
JAN111935
The Secretary of State.
moo
maint of State
Sir:
I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your communication
59
894.
dated January 4,/1935, (FE 894.114 Narcotics) inclosing for the
information of the United States Public Health Service copies of
114 NARCOTICS/154
two clippings which appeared in THE JAPAN CHRONICLE of December 1
and December 2, 1934, in regard to the increase in drug addiction
in Japan.
Respectfully,
Jovevbme Roche
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.
JAN 14 1935
FILED
G

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.95)
January 8 1986.
In reply refer to
FB 894.114 Narcotics/
894.114 NARCOTICS/15
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
The Secretary of State presents his conpliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury snd
encloses herewith, for the information of the Commissioner
of Narcotics, copies, in duplicute, of certain newspaper
articles, as listed below, in regard to recent seizures
of opium in Japan.
Enclosures:
5
Copies, in duplicate of
5
articles from
THE JAPAN ADVERTISER, December 5, 1934;
THE JAPAN ADVERTISER, Lecember 13, 1934;
A true copy of
The CHUGAI SHOGYO, December 12, 1934
the
(translation).
Hes
OR
1/8/35
FE:EMF
A
8 1965 PN
M

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.99)
THE JAPAN ADVERTISER
December 5, 1934
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 28 1934
Dapartment of State
OPIUM IS SEIZED IN TOKYO
Four Arrested in Raid Led by In-
spector of YokohamaPolice
Nearly 50 pounds of opium were
confiscaited from an undergnsund room
in úhe pramises of Eizo Negi, 33.
marine products dealer in Owata,
Shibuya Ward, on Sunday night when
a raid was made on the establishment
by a squad of police led by Director
Suzuki of the Criminal Affairs Sec-
tion of the Isezaki Police, Yokohama,
according to the Miyako. Negi was
placed under arrest together with three
others in his house. Police are under-
Eitocd to have extracted the confession
that the four have smuggled and sold
opium in this country to the extent
of ¥13,000.

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.99)
From the JAPAN ADVERTISER, December 13, 1934.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 28 1934
Department of State
OPIUM SMUGGLERS SEIZED
Japanese and Chinese Are Accused
in Big Casc
Thirty Japanese and Chinese are be-
ing held at the Mita police station :
Tokyo on a charge of smuggling a large
amount of opium from Japanese Sagha-
alien and disposing of it among smok-
ers in Yokohama. Kobe and Osaka.
The leader in the organization of the
ring is said to be Yang Chin-sheng. 58.
who began his activities several years
ago. It is reported the gang leased a
plot of ground near the Japanese
Saghalien border, and grew poppies
with Korean labor. The product was
brcught into Japan proper in shoe-
polish cans, and distributed from a
Chinese restaurant at Yamashita-cho,
Yokohama.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.99)
Translated from the CHUGAI SHOGYO, Tokyo,
of December 12, 1934.
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
Division of
DEC 28 1934
Department of State
GANG OF OPIUM SMUGGLERS IN CHINATOWN
BOUGHT THE OPIUM FROM KOREANS IN SAGHALIEN
GANG OF MORE THAN THIRTY ARRESTED IN YOKOHAMA.
The Peace Preservation Section of the Mita (Tokyo) Police
Station is examining Yo Kin Sei (Japanese pronunciation of a
Chinese name) of Yamashita-cho, Yokohama, the ringleader of a
gang of opium smugglers with headquarters in Yokohama's China-
town, and six other Chinese men and women, as well as Moriji
Oki (age 32), of 10 Hinode-cho, Naka-ku, Yokohama, the head of
a certain trading company; Masayoshi Tawara (age 23), of Toyo-
hara-machi, Japanese Saghalien; Nakakichi Muroi (age 48), of
no permanent domicile; Mitsuro Arita (age 37), former detective
of the Kanagawa Prefectural Police Bureau; Shiro Ichikawa (age
43), former detective of the Metropolitan Police Board (Tokyo);
and 23 other Japanese. They were all sent to the Procurator's
office with the necessary evidence, on charges of having vio-
lated the laws governing opium.
The principal offender, Yo Kin Sei (Yang Chin-sheng?),
while keeping a chop suey house called "Kakushin-ro" in Yama-
shita-cho, Yokohama, became acquainted with the above-named
Tawara. Meantime Tawara was also organizing a gang and was
shipping orude opium, which he bought of Koreans in an opium
den in Japanese Saghalien, near the boundary line, at 30 sen
per momme. The opium was shipped in empty shoe-blacking tins

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
2.
and candy jars, which were carefully wrapped in oil cloth
to prevent the odor of opium from esoaping. These tins and
jars were shipped to Japan Proper by tramp steamships, prin-
cipally American. (Note: As far as the Embassy is aware, no
American tramp steamships ever run between Japanese Saghalien
and Japan Proper. Moreover, an American vessel would not be
permitted under the law to carry cargo from one Japanese port
to another. The above statement is therefore obviously er-
roneous.) Yo Kin Sei, upon receipt of the crude opium, had it
refined by his gang in the attic of his house and, mixing the
opium with varnish, flour and red clay, had it made up into a
sort of cake. These cakes were sold to Chinese and Japanese
men of leisure in Kobe, Yokohama and Shibaura (Tokyo) at a
price of Yen 3.00 per momme. The total quantity sold in this
way aggregates 150 kwan (about 1240 1bs.). Yo Kin Sei in this
manner easily made a profit of Yen 100,000.
The Mita police first arrested Shoichi Asano (age 35) of
the gang on October 27, 1934, at Shibaura, while he was selling
opium to a certain Chinese, and since then have made more than
ten trips to Yokohama's Chinatown to arrest the members of the
gang. During that period Tawara was in Japanese Saghalien and
was arrested by the Otomari police at the request of the Mita
Police Station.

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 9, 1935.
No. 1123.
Subject: Tsunemitsu, Trafficker in Narcotic Drugs.
FAR AS
JA28 1935
Jle
P  ATE
17
Do artment of State
522
Capy tater
EED
1935 JAN 256 
88
Icopies sent to
94.
5
114-NARCOT ICS/1
1935501
January 29 1936
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
56
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's ins-
126
truction No. 196, August 7, 1 p.m., and to the Embassy's
148
despatches No. 995,dated October 4, 1934, and/No. 1044,
dated November 8, i934, in regard to the case of one Tsu-
nemitsu, now convicted of trafficking in narcotic drugs
by the Osaka District Court.
1
There is enclosed a copy of a letter from Mr. Howard
B
Donovan, American Consul at Kobe, Japan, dated December
27, 1934, transmitting a copy of a letter from the Chief
FILED
3
Publio
1935

=== Page 324 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Public Procurator of the Osaka District Court, from
which it appears that the Osaka Court of Appeal sus-
tained the decision of the District Court in the case,
but that Tsunemitsu has appealed to a still higher
court.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1f Copy of letter from the
American Consul at Kobe,
dated December 27, 1934,
with enclosure.
811.4
ERD:g

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
to uespatch
Luciosure No
from the
COPY
0 1123 of J.9, 1935
mbassy at Tokyo.
In Reply Refer to
File No. 811.4
RMMcC/mh
AMERICAN CONSULAR SERVICE
American Consulate, Kobe, Japan, December 27,1934.
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
Reference is made to this Consulate's letter
of November 2, 1934, reporting the trial and
conviction by the Osaka District Court of
Katsutoshi Tsunemitsu, a smuggler of narcotic
drugs.
There is enclosed a copy of a letter from Mr.
Ryohei Wada, the Chief Public Procurator of the
Osaka District Court, stating that the appeal of
Tsunemitsu was denied by the Osaka Court of Appeals
on December 19th. It appears, however, that
Tsunemitsu has carried the case to a higher court,
which in this case would be the Supreme Court.
Since the Supreme Court last year denied the appeal
of Kenji Kitada, the leader of the gang of which
Tsunemitsu was a member, reviewing substantially
thesame set of facts, it would appear probable
that Tsunemitsu's appeal will receive a similar
decision.
Respectfully yours,
(s) Howard Donovan
American Consul.
Enclosure:
Copy of letter from Mr. Ryohei Wada,
Chief Public Procurator, Osaka
District Court, dated December 26,1934.

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
C O P Y
(TRANSLATION)
Osaka, December 26, 1934.
Howard Donovan, Esquire,
American Consul,
Kobe.
Sir:
Reference is made to your letter of December
17th in which you wished to be informed of the
result of the second trial of the case against
Katsutoshi Tsunemitsu, an offender of the regula-
tions controlling narcotic drugs.
You are informed that on December 19th, at
the Osaka Court of Appeal, the decision identical
with the previous decision was announced. You
are further informed that the accused took the
case to a higher court on the same day.
Respectfully yours,
Ryohei Wada,
Chief Public Procurator
of the Osaka District Court.

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.94)
danr  1950
In reply refer to
FE 894.114 Narcot1cs/
894.114-NARCOTICS/157
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honoreble the Secretary of the Treasury and
encloses herewith, for the information of the Commissioner
of Narcotics, two copies of an artiole which appeared in
the JAPAN CHRONICLE of January 5, 1935, in regard to the
arrest in Kobe of an opium smuggling ring.
Enclosure:
Two copies of article in
JAPAN CHRONICLE, January 5,
1935.
Hed
FE:EMF
FE
1/28/35
A

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY:EMF
JAPAN CHRONICLE
January 5, 1935.
OPTUM GANG ARRE STLD
An opium smuggling ring, involving Xiyoshi Inamura
(42) of Odomari Saghlien, Masaichi Yuoka (40), Uichi
Nakabayash1 (30), Yosh1o Fuj1oka (32) εnd three others,
has been disolosed thanks to arrests by the Aioibash1*
detectives.
The total amount of opium which has been sold so far
is believed to excced yl50,000. Several Chinese are sus-
peoted of having aoted in unison with the above-mentioned
Japanese amugglers.
A polioe station in Kobe

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.95)
January 29 1955.
89
Astention: Bureau of Narooties
114-NARCOTICS/158
he Beeretary of State presents his compliments to
Mle the Beoretary of the Treasury and, with
to this Department's letter dated December 4,
mits herewith, fcr the confidential information
Commissioner of Narcotics, two copies of despatch
1Xms. dated January 9, 1935, from the American Embamey
amye, together with its enolosure, in regard to the mase
asomhi Tsunemitsu, No. 33 on the Confidential List.
11. Jamuary 9, 1935,
with enolosure,
A true copy of
the signey
nal.
1/29/35

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Kobe, Japan, February 5, 1935.
RECEIVED
FEB 25 1035
Copytaten
Sueject: Arrest and Conviction of Drug
11056 GPO
Smugglers at Kobe, Japan.
894.
AFARS
FEB6 1935
THE HONORABLE
file
Dapartment of State
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
4 NARCOTICS
Zcapies sent to
WASHINGTON.
Teksy.
Man.1,1935
SIR:
I have the honor to inform the Department of the
arrest and conviction of certain drug smugglers at Kobe,
Japan for traffic in narootics with Netherland India.
From September 21, 1932 to April 9, 1933 four
5
6
members of the crew of the Nanyo Yusen Kaisha freighter
CHERIBON MARU, which trades regularly from Kobe to the
Netherland Indies, were engaged in the smuggling of
morphine from Kobe to Surabaya and Batavia. The
894.114har
nareoties disposed of amounted to a total of thirteen
pounds. It was secured from a tobacconist in Kobe by
the name of Kimura and was peddled by the following
members of the crew of the CHERIBON MARU:
Michikado Iwamoto (age 42) Chief Steward.
Kinjiro Sasamoto (age 38)
Bosun.
Kikuchi
Ordinary Seaman.
FILEDM
Masato Shigeta (age 41)
Donkeyman.
2
1935
None of these persons had a previous criminal record.
The

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The gang was placed under arrest by the Kobe Water
Police late in October, 1934. The tobacconist, Kimura,
died during the course of the subsequent investigation.
The donkeyman, Shigeta, evidently escaped, as the
Prefectural Government has informed the Consulate that
he "1s missing". On December 7, 1934 the Kobe District
Court imposed a sentence of one month's imprisonment on
Iwamoto, Sasamoto and Kikuchi. The sentence was sus pended,
however, pending appeal. According to the Hyogo
Prefeotural Government, the maximum sentence the culprits
could have received under the Narcotios Ordinance of the
Home Department would have been three months.
Sufficient reference has been made in previous
despatches from this Consulate to the purely nominal
punishment inflieted by Japanese courts on convicted
smugglers of narcoties. It is interesting to bear in
mind that in the present case the country of origin of
the morphine was Japan.
The Consulate regrets to report that the attitude
of the local authorities has. been most discouraging in
assisting the Consulate to obtain information concerning
the activities of the smugglers of the CHERIBON MARU.
A request made of the Chief of the Water Police on
October 26, 1934 for data concerning the case was
completely ignored. The Governor of the Prefecture was
next approached and no acknowledgment was made of the
receipt of the Consulate's letter. Eventually, in
response to inquiries from this office, the Prefectural
Government stated that the original letter from the
msulate had been "lost". In all, the Consulate
addressed

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
addressed four letters to the Governor of Hyogo Prefecture
before the information set forth above was at last obtained
on February 4, 1935, three months after the Prefectural
Government was apprised of the Consulate's interest in the
case. It seems evident, however, that the officials of
the Hyogo Kencho have now come to realize that this office
has a justifiable interest in narcotics cases, owing to the
international character of the traffic, and that in the
future its representations will meet with more prompt
satisfaction.
Respectfully yours,
Imord Pimron
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.
811.4
RMMoC/tk
In duplicate to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.91)
Rebruary 211935
894.I14 NARCOTiCS/160
Burean of Harcoties
stery of State presents his compliments
le the Seeretary of the Treasury and
hewewith, for the information of the Commis-
mswotios, two copies of an article which
Im THE CHINA WEkKLY REVIKW of January 12, 1935,
wOpiwm Den' Yound on British Boat in Osaka
2/20/85
B 81,1930
nal.
e 

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY:E
COMP:3m
THE CHINA WEEKLY REVIEW
January 12, 1935
"OPIUM DEN" FOUND ON BRITISH BOAT IN OSAKA HARBOR
Suspicion as to the unusually large crew on board the
B.s. CHaksaNG, 2,358 ton freighter of the Indo-Chine
Steam Navigation company, upon its arrival in Osaka
on the morning of December 24 with miscellaneous cargo
from Shangha1, led officers of the foreign seotion of
the Osaka water police, while on an inspection tour, to
diseover an "opium den" among the Chinese members of the
crew. The inspeotors believed that a crew of about 30 should
generally be sufficient to man a vessel of her size. Com-
mmndod by the six British officers, including the captain,
however, they found a crew of 8l Chirese. In their search
of the vessel, the Inspector's attention was attracted by
strong-scented smoke issuing from one of the Chinese orews
quarters. within, they found some 10 Chinese lolling in
their bunks and amoking opium pipes. Pressing investiga-
tion, they disoovered that about half of the Chinese
crew were oplum addiots and were in the habit of using
this room seoretly.
with a customs official in aitendance, the water
police confiscated smoking articles and several pounds
of the drug. A protest to the captain (according to the
OSAKA MAINICHI) brought the reply that due to the faot
that half of the Chinese orew were opium addicts, their
offioleney was very low and that they became lax in their
work as soon as their stimulus ran low. It was therefore
neeessary to have twice the number of workers than usual.

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
March 1 193
FE 894.114 Narcotics/159
CONFIDENTIAL
Attention: Bureau of Narcotica
The Socretary of State presents his complimen ts to
894
the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and encloses
4.
herewith, in duplicate, for the confidential information
of the Commissioner of Narcolics, a copy of despatch No.
14 NARCOTICS/161
442, dated February 5, 1935, from the American Consulate
at Kobe, in regard to the arrest and conviction of four
members of the crew of the Nanyo Yusen Kaisha freighter
CHERIBON MARU, who were ongeged in the smuggling of mor-
phine from Kobe into the Netherland Rast Indies.
Enclosure:
No. 442, February 5, 1935,
from Kobe, February 5, 1935,
DG
in duplioate.
f
Hal
FE:HCS:RMF
FE
2/28/35

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.89)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
To:yo,  rch 19, 1985
No. 1203
Subject: CHERIBO: ARU  reoties S.ungling Jase.
C3
4
Inalruction
lrafted to ote
20 ue sent
NALCOTI08/1
Lle
62
The Honorable
The Secrettry of stte,
vashinston.
Sir:
I he ve the honor to enelose herewitn copies of
1/3
correspondence, : s Iisted below, witn recard to the
smuggling of morpnine into tae etnerl nds Hust Indies
by members or the erew o" the cnt e iRt,  stetm-
ship of the hippon Yusen  ish.
he reply or h poverhor  yoco  refecture to
the en miry or he mericn Consul t Houe was p pontly
transmitted throuch the bep rt ont of lore ffuirs, the
Foreion
APR 19 1935
FILED

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.87)
- 2 -
Foreign Office und trie  be ss. becsuse or so. e doust
in the mind or the Govermor us rey res the tdvisusility,
under the existin rrange..ent for the exchnge of
infora tion between the Governients of the United it: tes
und Jupen, of reply: i reet te the Jonsul.
Res uctfully.curs,
Se . srew
Enclosures:
Cony of letter Fro. the orei  Triee,  reh e, lvs5.
Jopy of letter Fro: the Jonsut : t Kobe to the
Governer or wo e  vetare,ove eer , 194.
Cony of letter fro t yovornor of yo o Pre veture
to te ireetor o e mi ry ure,
bep rtent r f irs, eorry, .
ERD:m
811.4
Copy to mmerien Jonsul, obe
Cory to Tre sur. Attuché,  erican  usul te, nobe
Copy to Consulute denerul, Jenove

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No
to despatch
No/203 of MAncH 19,/935 from tho
Embassy at Tokyo;
COPY
Translation.
No. 15/T.3.
Department of Foreign Affairs,
Tokyo, March 6, 1935.
Excellency:
With reference to the inquiries made by the American
Consul at Kobe to the Governor of Hyogo Prefecture in a
note (see copy herewith marked A) which was addressed to the
Governor under date of November 2, 1934, regarding the
smuggling of morphine into the Netherlands East Indies by
members of the crew of the Nippon Yusen Kaisha steamship
CHERIBON MARU, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency
that I have just received a report (see copy herewith
marked B) from the Governor of Hyogo-Ken through the Depart-
ment of Home Affairs. I beg Your Excellency will kindly
transmit the same to the American Consul at Kobe.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your
Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
Koki Hirota (Seal)
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
His Excellency
Mr. Joseph C. Grew,
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
of the United States of America,
Tokyo.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No
to despatch
No/203ot Mnch19,19Bomthe
Embassy at Tokyo.
COPY
AMERICAN CONSULATE SERVICE
AMERICAN CONSULATE, KOBE, JAPAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1934.
(A) Report.
His Excellency
T. Shirane,
Governor of Hyogo-Ken,
Kobe.
Excellency:
The Consulate has noted with interest an account in the
Japan Chronicle of October 25th to the effect that the Kobe
Water Police have arrested three members of the crew of the
N.Y.K. CHERIBON MARU on the charge of smuggling morphine
into the Netherland East Indies. The men arrested are stated
to be Chief Steward Michikado Iwamoto and Seamen Kinjiro Sasa-
moto and Masato Shigata.
Since the traffic in narcotic drugs is of an international
charecter, my Government maintains a dossier of all known drug
smugglers the world over. It would therefore be greatly appre-
ciated if your Government would furnish the Consulate with in-
formation along the following lines:
1.
The country of origin of the drugs smuggled.
2.
The places where the drugs were sold.
3.
The amount of narcotics thus disposed of.
4.
The period during which this activity went on.
5.
The previous criminal record, if any, of the
accused.
6.
The punishment which will be adjudged for the
smugglers if they were convicted.
With the assurance of my very great appreciation for
your cooperation and with evidence of my desire to reciprocate
your courtesy, I have the honor to be, Excellency,
Your obedient servant,
(signed)
Howard Donovan
American Consul.

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No
to despatch
No1203 of/March 19,1935from the
Embassy at Tokyo:
COPY
(B) Report.
February 2, 1935.
To the Director,
Sanitary Bureau,
Department of Home Affairs.
Inquiries concerning the smuggling
of Morphine from American Consul, Mr.
Howard Donovan, of the American Con-
sulate at Kobe.
Regarding the inquiries made by the American Consul
to the Hyogo prefectural office in a note (copy herewith)
under date of November 2, 1934, in which it is mentioned
that a quantity of morphine was smuggled into the Netherlands
East Indies by chief steward Michikado Iwamoto and other members
of the crew of the Nippon Yusen Kaisha steamship CHERIBON MARU,
all of whom were arrested by the Water Police of Hyogo prefec-
ture in October, 1934, the following are the results of in-
quiries made by the appropriate authorities:
(1) Country of origin of the drugs smuggled:
Japan (Kobe)
(2) Places where the drugs were sold: Surabaya and Batavia.
(3) Amount of narcotics this disposed of: 13 pounds.
(4) Period during which this activity went on: From
September 21, 1932, to April 9, 1933.
(5) Previous criminal record, if any, of the accused:
Michikado Iwamoto, former chief steward
of the CHERIBON MARU.
Kinjiro Sasamoto, former boatswain of the same
vessel
Yutaro Kikuchi, former member of the crew of
the same vessel
Shoto Shigeta, former watchman of the storerooms
of the same vessel.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
Kanichi Kimura, a tobacco dealer
(now deceased)
All of the above-mentioned men have no
previous criminal record.
(6) Prescribed penalty: All the accused are subject to
imprisonment with hard labor not to exceed
three months on the ground that they violated
the provisions of Article 10 of the narcotics
control regulations issued by the Department
of Home Affairs.
(7) Punishment: Iwamoto, Sasamoto and Kikuchi were
sentenced to one month's imprisonment with
hard labor each by the Kobe district court
on December 7, 1934, but they have appealed
against the verdict. Shigeta escaped and con-
sequently prosecution is temporarily delayed.
Kimura is dead and the right of prosecution
therefore has expired.
Michio Yuzawa,
Governor of Hyogo-Ken.

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
100 =
5 momnr . prip.
13
I Kwanns- prep-8's/t
I Kwannne. raw. 8'5 1t
