894.402 Social Matters., Japan, Language., March 23, 1945 - January 7, 1949 (File 1683)
ID: 894.402-1683   Pages: 45   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.402-social-matters-japan-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
BA57
March 23, 1945
MAR 28 194
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Hon. Joseph C. Grew
Undersecretary of State
The Capitol
Sprl S, 1948
Washington, D.C.
894.402/3-2345
Honorable Sir
I have become interested in the idea of studying
the Japanese language with the thought in mind that after the
war there may be some field of work for me in which a know-
ledge of Japanese would be valuable.
I am 33 years of age and at the present time I am
working at the New York State Psychiatric Institute and Hospital
where I am the Principal Stenographer and Secretary to the
Director who is also Professor of Psychiatry at the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University.
I have been working at the Psychiatric Institute
for the past 15 years and I am beginning to feel that I have
gotten as much out of my work here as I will ever get. I am
interested now in developing something that may lead to a po-
sition that will provide me with more interest and satisfaction.
I would therefore appreciate it greatly if you
would direct my letter to someone who can advise me where I
might study Japanese and what opportunities the knowledge of
this language may afford me.
Respectfully yours
margaret heubart
CS
(Miss) Margaret Neubart
722 West 168 Street
/D
New York 32, N.Y.
899.402
RSUEIVED
APR 3 1945
FILED
1345
DCR
NE Onit
mal.
30
2
ω
O:1
45
Dre

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
April 2, 1048
In reply refer to
JA
My dear Miss Neubart:
Mr. Grew has asked me to answer your letter of
402
Maroh 23, 1945, in whioh you inquired where you might
study Japanese and what opportunities a knowledge of
the language might afford you.
As you live in New York, you presumably desire to
pursue your studies in that city. I understand that
Columbia University 1s offering courses in Japanese
3
and that the member of the faoulty to oonsult is
Dr. George Noss of the Department of Chinese and
Japanese. I believe that also the Berlitz Sohool of
Languages in New York City is giving courses in
Japanese. The Department has no information as to
3
the exact nature of the courses offered by either
institution and can of course assume no responsibility
in the matter.
With referenoe to the opportunities you may expeet
from a knowledge of the Japanese language, I feel sure
that you will realize that at this stage of the war
with Japan it is impossible to pradiot the extent to
which there will be a demand after the war for those
who know that language.
The Department is glad to have this opportunity of
being of assistanoe and hopes that the information con-
tained in this letter will be useful to you.
Sincerely yours,
ERD
OCH. NE Umt
7.8
3.41
Erle R. Diokover
Chief
Division of Japanese Affairs
2.
Miss Margaret Neubart,
722 Weat 168th Street,
New York 32, New York.
APR 2:045P.
JA: HLOry: MP
3-31-45

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
WAR DEPARTMENT
MrBepn
CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
WDSCA O14 Japan (23 Jun 45)
3 July 1945
DC/R
RECEIVED
JUL9-1945
1:1945
Mr. Eugene H. Dooman
Room 282, Department of State
Washington 25. D. C.
Dear Mr. Dooman:
Inclosed herewith is a copy of a memorandum which has
894.402/7-345
just been forwarded to us from CASA. I should mmch appre-
ciate receiving informal comments of the Department of
State as to whether the proposal in the memorandum has
merit.
It is our impression that the suggestion is not
practicable but we are reluctant to reject the recommenda-
tion without obtaining your views.
EXECUTIVE STAFF
COMMITTEES
Sincerely,
1945
July!!
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1 Incl
J. H. HILLDRING
H3
Cy of memo fr
Major General
CASA
Director, Civil Affairs Division
Vay J- Lanx
DOS NE 
RAY J. LAUX
m2
Colonel, GSC,
B
Executive
402
Gok
dst.
7-34
SAVE

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
THE EXCLUSIVE USE OF
KATAKANA AS OFFICIAL WRITTEN JAPANESE
RECOMMENLATION
It is recommended that all written communication in the Japanese
language during military occupation be restricted to katakana. and
that the use of materials in kanji be prohibited.
DESCRIPTION
A brief description of certain characteristics of the Japanese language
may be of value. It is the peculiar composition of the Japanese
language whici makes possible and desirable this restriction during
military government.
Written Japanese is le:haps the most difficult language in common use
today. It is in fact more than one language. Japanese can be written
in kanji. which is a Japanese rendition of Chinese characters imported
into Japan atout 4o0 A.D. It can be written in katakana, which is
a printed form of phonetic shorthand, or syllabary. It can be written
in the cursive form of phonetic shorthand. hiragana. Or it can be
written in a transliteration of the sounds of spoken Japanese in ordi-
nary Roman letters, known as romaji. Each of these various forms can
be used exclusively, or in combination with the others--the most com-
mon combination teing kanji with either katakana or hiragana. To
make the language even more complicated there are two distinct forms
of kanji which are so different that a reading knowledge of one does
not imply a reading knowledge of the other: (KaISHo) the block form,
and (-OsHo) the cursive or grass-writing form. And to pile difficulty
upon difficulty, even the shape or form of the characters formed in
kanji carry meaning, or a sense of style, in the writing.
The reason for this incredibly complicated mixture of writing systems
is historical. There is no record of the ancient Japanese language
having a written form, and it is generally believed that it was first
reduced to writing with the introduction of Chinese culture about the
4th Century. The Chinese language from which the Japanese kanji was
borrowed, was a nearly monosyllabic language without inflections, or
"word endings". This type of spoken language is suited to a system of
writing by characters in which each charac ter stands for the meaning,
not the sounus. of the word. Ch nese still retains this characteristic.
and all the mutually unintelligible spoken forms of Chinese are written
exactly the same. Japanese, however, was and is a polysyllabic
language, made up of strings of syllabic sounds. Each syllable is
made from a vowel, or a consonant plus a vowel. It is also an agglu-
tinative language, with words made up by stringing together a series
of other words. Its grammar is not indicated by other words or by
position, as in Chinese or English. but by inflections, or word

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTAY
endings". It is, therefore, a type of language wholly unsuited to a
writing system in which the characters stand for meanings. It is
suited to a system in which the letters or symbols stand for sounde.
This became evident as soon as the Chinese language was introduced
into Japan and 'Japanese scholars attempted to adopt its system of
writing.
A Chinese character could be used to stand for the meaning of a
Jaianese word, if an equivalent Chinese word existed. When read aloud
in Japanese, this character could be pronounced either in the native
Japanese or in the Japanese rendition of its Chinese pronunciation.
But some additional system had to be devised to reproduce the sounds
of Japanese names and words which had no counterpart in Chinese. And
more important still there had to te some system to reproduce the
sounds of the inflections which carried no meaning and hence could not
be represented by a Chinese character, but which were indispensable
to the grammar. This was accomplished with the invention of kana.
Certain characters in Chinese were adopted as symbols, not of meaning.
but of the sound which the Japanese would make in atten pting to pro-
nounce the Chinese spoken word represented by the character. The
shapes of these characters were modified and styllized until they reached
approximately the form of the two kana in use today. Kibi-no-Mabi is
traditionally credited with the invention of katakana, in the 8th Cen-
tury, and Kobo Daishi is credited wi th the invention of hiragana in
the 9th Century.
Modern Japanese is ordinarily written, therefore, with kanji standing
for the meanings of the words, but with katakana or hiragana inter-
spersed between the kanji to stand for the sounds of the endings, and
for certain Japanese words for which no character exists. This is the
form of the written language which should be prohibited. In its place
there should be substituted the immensely simpler form of katakana.
ADVANTAGLS
The aavantages to military government of such a change are the following:
1. brohibiting kanji would greatly assist in barring access to
pre-war propaganda.
Nearly all serious writing in Japan has been done in the
past in the medium of kanji. If all books and written
materials in kenji are prohibited, possession of such
materials becomes illegal. It is not recommended that
materials already existing in kanji should be destroyed.
It is sufficient that libraries be impounded. The know-
ledge represented in the impounded books would thus be
preserved and the occupying forces would avoid the stigma
of "book-burning".
2

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
2. The exclusive use of katakana would ease the problem of cen-
sorship.
Censorship demands the highest level of discriminating
linguistic ability. There does not now exist anything
remotely approaching an adequate supply of linguists
competent to censor kanji. Because of the extreme dif-
ficulty of mastering the kanji form of written Japanese,
it seems improbable that more than a small proportion of
the required number can be trained in time to be of value
to the military government. n adequate command of
spoken Japanese is far simpler to acquire. Acquisition
of the katakana then requires two to three weeks.
Every member of the occupying forces, whether he reads
Japanese or not, would become in effect a rough censor.
Mere recognition of the type of writing would become
sufficient. No translation to determine the content of
that writing would be necessary.
3。
The use of katakana will shorten the time required for chil-
dren to reach the same proficiency level in schools.
In pre-war Japan a very major portion of the time devoted
to elementary education was spent in acquiring facility
in kanji. This time would be saved and could be utilized
in other branches of ins truction. Children would thus
reach a productive level at an earlier age and would in-
crease the labor supply without reducing the educational
standard of the country.
4. Katakana woula increase national business efficiency.
It is widely used now in telegrams, in military dispatches,
and in certain newspapers directed to the lower classes.
It can be efficiently written on a standard Occidental
typewriter with a simple substitution of keys. It makes
possitle the use of modern high speed linotype machines
as contrasted to the archaic and difficult hand-setting
of kanji in printing. It tremendously simplifies the prob-
lems of filing and indexing.
FHACTICALITY
The prohibition of kanji and the exclusive use of katakana is both
possible and practical:
1. The use of katakana does not impose illiteracy upon Japan.
Atl literate people in Japen read katakana. In fact, many
who cannot read kanji read the simpler katakana. The use of
romanized transcription, romaji. is not practical despite its
obvious linguistic advantages, because
3

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
it is nct generally read in Japan, and accordingly its
immediate adoption would virtually make Japan an illite-
rate nation. Illiteracy would be more dangerous to the
military government than access to antagonistic propa-
ganda. A modern nation without written communication
would be reduced to chaos.
2. Translation into katakana of necessary documents now in
kanji is simple.
There are none of the usual problems of accurately trans-
lating meaning from one language to another. The problem
is solely one of transliteration from one type of writing
to another, within the same language. The difficulty is
no greater than that of transcribing shorthand notes into
typewritten copy. It can be done by any secretary who
knows both systems.
3. Katakana has a propaganda value.
It is one of the few, and certainly one of the most
remarkable, native Japanese inventions. Its use should
be a matter of national pride. Proper education of the
Japanese people should convince them that its use is
preferable to the continued use of a foreign and adopted
kanji.
4. There is a precedence for a major change of this sort.
Japan within the past two decades has shifted to the metric
system of measures in an attempt to modernize their industry.
This in a modern industrial nation is comparable in diffi-
culty and scope to the proposed change from kanji to the
exclusive use of katakana. The centralization of authority
in the Japanese Government makes possible radical changes which
would be nearly impossible in a decentralized government.
5. The change will become permanent.
The closing of schools early in 1945, combined with the chaos
that will attend any occupation, whether under combat con-
ditions or under an armistice, will produce a two to five
year gap in the education of the present generation in kanji.
This lapse, followed by a period under military government
ring which the kanji is officially forbidden, will effec-
tively end the widespread use of kanji as a national language.
Kanji is too difficult and requires too long a period of
study ever to survive being driven underground for any period
of time. It is not something that can be kept alive by word
of mouth. If education in kanji is prohibited for even a
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
period of ten years it is highly likely that kanji
writing will become a "dead language", studied in the
future by scholars as a medium to the "Japanese Classics".
(s)ROBERT KING HALL
Lieut. (S) USNR
23 June 1945
S-5 Education
CASA
Presidio of Monterey
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Japanese
DIVISION OFFARXLKSTERN AFFAIRS
August 30, 1945.
This letter 1s based on
information I got from a 'phone
call to the G.P.O. and thence
to the Pentagon Building this
morning. We had Piggott's book
in the Embassy Library in Tokyo
and I think a copy or two would
be very useful here.
JA:DRay:hst

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
WD80A014 Japan (23 Jun 45)
CONFIDÉNTIAL
July 6, 1945
Dear General Hilldring:
I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of July 3, 1945,
with whioh there was transmitted a copy of a memorandum from
CASA suggesting that the use of Chinese charaoters be for-
bidden during the period of ocoupation of Japan. I am glad
to receive your invitation to send you the informal comment
on the paper of the Department of State.
The "Desoription" of the Japanese language presented in
894.402/7-345
the memorandum from CASA is inaccurate. It is stated therein,
for example, that the Japanese language is "a type of language
wholly unsuited to a writing system in whioh the charaoters
stand for meanings". This statement might be acourate enough
if it related to the indigenous Japanese language. However,
modern Japanese has one point of similarity with modern
English. Modern English rests on the broad base of Early
English, retaining its syntax and its words, but superimpos-
ing thereon words derived from Latin and Greek. In the same
way, modern Japanese rests on the broad base of the indigen-
ous Japanese language, whioh bears no relation whatever to
Chinese. On this indigenous Japanese language, which was pro-
bably adequate for a primitive society, there have been super-
imposed a large number of words of Chinese origin. Reference
to any Japanese dictionary will indicate that more than half
of all the words in general usage in modern Japanese are words
of Chinese origin. Such Chinese words are constantly being
introduced, and have been introduced for centuries, to meet
the needs of a progressively developing society.
Words in the indigenous Japanese language are for the
most part polysyllabic and are therefore distinotive. No
great dirficulty would be experienced in representing these
words in writing by some phonetic system, such as kana, How-
CS/MA
ever a large proportion of Japanese words of Chinese origin
are homonyms, that is to say, words whioh have the same sound
894.40
but
Major Ceneral J. H. Hilldring,
MAJ
Director: Civil Affairs Division
OCK NWaFdDepartment
Washington, D. C.
2
7-345
0.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
but have totally different meanings. Taking the word kanjl.
for example, a small dictionary on hand gives seven dirrerent
homonyms. Without knowledge of the Chinese oharacters from
which these words derive and which give meaning to these words
it would be virtually impossible to distinguish one homonym
from another. Such words would inevitably fall out of use.
It must be obvious that a language reduoed to the dimensions
of a vehiole for the transfer or thought adoquate for the
needs of a tribal community 2,000 years ago is hardly adequate
to meet the complex needs of today. Some slight conception of
the effects might be suggested if one were to eliminate from
the English language all words derived from the Romance lang-
uages and Greek.
It is our view that the prohibition of Chinese oharacters
could not be enforced. Even ir it could be, the elimination
of Chinese characters under conditions of military ocoupation
would probably have consequences of a most serious and far-
reaohing oharacter, not only in drastically limiting intel-
lectual and cultural pursuits, but in impeding in most drastio
form the operation of the normal economy of the country.
Yours truly,
Special Assistant to
ssistant Seoretary Dunn
JUL
AD 9to
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
August 31, 1945.
N.I.S. Language Sohool,
Army or the United States,
Fort Snelling, Minnesota.
Sirs:
894.402/8-3145
The Japanese Affairs Division of the Far Eastern Office
of the State Department is informed by the Military Intelli-
gence Service of the War Department at Washington that the
Language School at Fort Bnelling has available copies of The
Elemente of Sgsho by Major General F. S. Q. Piggott.
The Government Printing Orrice at Washington, whioh is
is understood prepared a reprint or reproduction or this
work for the use of the United States Army, says that The
Elements of Scsho is still on the restrioted distribution
list and that its entire stock of the book was turned over
to the Army.
Since this office is now engaged in Japanese translation
work in which this book would be of very great utility, in-
quiry is made whether two copies of it could be obtained, and
what the cost would be.
CS/LE
It would also be appreoiated if you would send us a
list of any other special works on the Japanese language,
such as specialized glossaries and vocabularies or other
works on sosho prepared or reproduoed under United States
Army supervision.
Very truly yours,
ERD
OCF NF In
894.402
on m
AU 31 945
Erle R. Dickover
B
Chier
Oa1
Division of Japanese Affairs
Din
8
JA:DRay:hst
-3145

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.92)
WAR DEPARTWENT
MILITARY WITELLIGENCE SERVICE LANGUAGE SCNGEL
OPPISE OF THE COMMANDANT
Ft. Smelling 11,
6 Sptmber
Mr. le Dickover, Chief
Division of Jananeee Affairs
Far Eastern Office
DEPARTMENTO
State Devartment
Waehington, D. C.
894.402/8.29
Dear Mr. Dickover:
A
I heve received your letter ated August 3l/in which
you reouest that we furnish to the State Demartment certain
Japanese reference books, including The D.aments of Sosho by
Piggott.
I heve instructed my Liaison and Research Demartment to
commile for vou a complete list of reference meterial available
here at the School. This list is inclosed herewith. I have
also instructed the Director of thet section to forward to you
directly two copies each of all mrterial listed, and trust they
may serve your needs.
In the event you need anything else or any assistance
with your linguistic undertelings, I am confident that we may
be able to assist you, and we should be very happy to do so.
With kindest personal regerds to you, I am
CS/LE
Most sincerely yours,
feiNamuw
Inclosure
KAI E. RASMUSSN
As above
Colonel, CAC
Commandant
SEP 20 1945
001.3
ermd
B.F
Jac
Dia

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SERVICE LANGUAGE SCHOOL
Research & Field Liaison Section
Fort Snelling ll, Minnesota
6 September 1945
MEMORAND M FOR THE CO'MAULANT:
SUHJECT: Japarese Vocabulary Reference Materials
1. Attached herewith a list of Japanese voca ulary
reference material as requested.
Aura sheda
AKIRA OSHIDA
Chief, Research &
Field Liaison Section

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.89)
Sosho Daisiten
*Elements of Sosho
*Military Terms Dictionary = Creswells
Japanese Words of Military Value
Vocabulary Pertaining to Air Corps
Terms Pertaining to AA Gun
Glossary of Japanese Antiaircraft Gun
Glossary of Japanese Antiaircraft Searchlight Terms
Glossary of Japanese Aeronautical Terms
Glossary of Japanese Terms Pertaining to Aeronautical Meteorology
Glossary of Japanese Terms Pertaining to Artillery Signal Communication
Glossary of Japanese Terms Pertaining to Electrified Obstacles
Glossary of Japanese Mapping Terms
Glossary of Japanese Medical Terms
A Guide to Fundamentals of Sosho
Textbook on the Japanese Army, Volume I
11
11 11
11
11
11
II
11
11
1
11
III
11
1" 11
11
11
11
IV
Kanji, Book I
11
" II
11
" III
Tentative Vocabulary Compilation For Naganuma Reader, Book I
11
18
11
11
11
1n
" II
1
11
n
11
11
" III
11
1
11
11
11
11
" IV
18
11
11
1n
11
11
" V
Bulletin No. 1 - English Equivalents of Japanese Military Organization Nomenclature
11
" 2 - Japanese Military Terms Defined in Japanese
11
" 3 - Japanese Navy & Navy Landing Force Terms Defined in Japanese
Translation of Bulletin No. 3
Bulletin No. 4 - Japanese Navy Terms Defined in Japanese
11
" 5 - Japanese Military Terms Defined in Japanese
Translation of Bulletin No. 5
Bulletin No. 6 - Japanese Aeronautical Terms & Navy Anti-Gas Defined in Japanese
Translation of Bulletin No. 6
Bulletin No. 7 - Definition of Japanese Terms & Their Tactical Explanation
in Japanese
Bulletin No. 8 - Nomenclature of Japanese Army Units and Their English Equivalents
11
" 9 - Abbreviated Terms & Abbreviations for Ordnance Nomenclature
11
" 10 - Nomenclature of Japanese Air Units & Shipping Units with
English Equivalents
11
" 11 - Japanese Army Communication Terms Defined in Japanese
11
" 12 - Designation of U.S Ships with Japanese Equivalents
11
" 13 - Japanese Naval Air Force Terms and Their U.S. Equivalents
Training Aid No. 1 - Aeronautical Vocabulary
11
11
" 2 - Japanese Naval Grades & Ranks
Supplement to Training Aid No. 1 - Aeronautical Terms & Illustration
Training Aid No. 3 - Organization of the First Air Division
Supplement to Training Aid No. 3 - Organization of an Air Brigade
Training Aid No. 4 - Organization of the First (Japanese) Army
11
11
" 5 - Organization of Japanese Armored Division
11
11
" 6 - The Use of Engineers in Attack on Positions
11
11
" 7 - T/0 of Shipping Engineer Regiment
19
11
" 8 - T/o of Sea Transport Unit
Table of Abbreviations for Maritime Equipment & Fuel
11
11
" 9 - Japanese Naval Air Force Organization
* Bound Volumes

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
September18,1998
In reply refer to
JA
Ny dear Colonel Rasmussen!
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
September 6, 1945, and the subsequent receipt of twe
large packages of Japanese diotionaries, military
glossaries, and study material in use at the Military
Intelligenee Language Sohool, accompanied by two
transmission sheets. It is noted that with one
exception two coples of every item have been sent,
inoluding two copies of The Elements of Sosho by
Captain F. S. G. Piggott.
894.402/9-645
Your generous response to the Department's re-
quest is very greatly appreoiated, and I wish to thank
you partioularly for the larger diotionaries and the
Sosho meterial.
A copy of the mimeographed memorandum transmitting
this material has been signed and is returned herewith.
Sinoerely yours,
ERS
Erle R. Diokover
218122
Chier
Division of Japanese Affairs
BF
188.
894.402
181945P.N
Enclosurel
Mimeographed memorandum.
Colonel Kai E. Rasmussen,
A true copy 
9-645
Commandant, Military Intelligenod
the signed eg
Service Language Sohool,
Fort Snelling ll, Ninnesota.
JA: DTRay: MP
9-17-45

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
DATE: 10-23-46
: ADO - Mr. Buchanan
TO
FROM : JA - Mr. Borton
Draft Letter for General Hilldring.
SUBJECT :
In reference to your proposed
draft letter forwarding SWNCc 298
and 298/1 to Mr. Atcheson, the dis-
cussion on the subject in SWNCC and
General Hilldring's offer to write
an explanatory letter to Mr. Atcheson
would seem to warrant a more detailed
letter than that proposed by you.
There is attached a redraft of a
letter for General Hilldring's
signature for initialing in ADO.
1403
JA:HBorton:mls

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
DRAFT
Dear Mr. Atcheson:
Enclosed is a paper on the reform of the Japanese
writing system and language problems which is now before
SWNCC. Will you please read it and let me know how
General MacArthur would feel about receiving such a
statement of opinion from the FEC not as a directive,
but only as a suggested method of procedure.
Very sincerely yours,
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary
Mr. George Atcheson,
Political Advisor to the
Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers,
Tokyo.
D.C.D.
ADO:DCBuchanan:mbv
10/22/46

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
October 16, 1946
A-H - Generel Hilldring:
Subject: Action to be
Taken by You Pursuant to
Agreement at the SWNCC
Meeting.
This is to serve as a
reminder to you that you
agreed to write a letter to
George Atcheson asking him
how General MacArthur would
feel about receiving a state-
ment of opinion from the FEC
on the reform of the Japanese
writing system.
Harold W. Moseley
SWNCC:HWM:nla

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.89)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT S001211946
ADO. ML B
Ithis suggested
that A00 fiepary
a deaft letter
to Me atcheon for
Mer Hilldring's
figuatine.
SJK/ JK Ee

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
NOV 191946
My dear Mr. Atcheson:
I am enclosing for your information and that of
894.402/11-1946
General MacArthur a copy of a paper entitled "Reform
of the Japanese Writing System and Language Problems"
(SWNCC 298) and a memorandum by the War Member on the
same subject (SWNCC 298/1), now under consideration
by the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee. You will
note that the former concludes that a simplifioation
of the Japanese writing system, preferably through the
common use of the Latin alphabet in place of Chinese
characters and kana, would be highly beneficial to
Japan but that the reform of such a system and the
methods by which it 1s to be achieved are problems to
be achieved by the Japanese Government and people. It
is further concluded that the Supreme Commander should
encourage, but not order, the Japanese Government to
form a commission of qualified Japanese to examine the
desirability of language reforms and to formulate a
long-range program for their accomplishment; and, finally,
that the Supreme Commander should not demand or enoourage
reforms in the spoken language beyond those necessitated
by change in the writing system.
The Department has presented such a paper for con-
sideration of SWNCC because it is of the opinion that
we should do everything possible to encourage reforms
which will a1d in the spread of democratic ideas in
Japan. The Department believes that the present Japanese
writing system is an important factor in preventing the
development of an adequately informed electorate required
for the proper functioning of a democratio system. At
894.402
present, the Japanese written language stifles independent
and original thinking on the part of the average Japanese,
processes so necessary to the healthy development of a
C
democracy. So long as the Japanese student is required
S
The Honorable
to learn
11-1946
George Atcheson, Jr.,
United States Political Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
to learn hundreds of Chinese ideographs and their divergent
readings, he will be required to devote a large amount of
time to rote memory work, an educational method which
gives little encouragement to independent and constructive
thinking.
You will also note that account has been taken of
the suggestions for language reform as set forth in the
report of the United States Educational Mission to Japan.
As we do not wish forcibly to press Japanese language
reforms upon the Japanese people or take steps which
might later be taken as pressure on the part of the ocou-
pation authorities to effect changes in the writing
system, which is part of the Japanese cultural heritage,
the policy outlined in the enclosed paper merely authorizes
the Supreme Commander to "encourage" the Japanese Govern-
ment to form a commission to investigate the problem of
reform in the writing system. Such encouragement by the
Supreme Commander would not entail any imposition of re-
forms by him but would have the advantage of giving impetus
to the consideration by the Japanese of a reform of far-
reaching importance. At the meeting of SWNCC on October 16
I emphasized the points mentioned above, but the War Depart-
ment representative continued to emphasize the fact this
paper placed General MacArthur in a position of having
to take action in a field which belongs exclusively to
the Japanese. I stated, however, that any policy which
was related so clearly to the democratization of Japan,
such as that outlined in the attached paper, was a legiti-
mate one to be cons1dered by SWNCC and the FEC.
I informed SWNCC that as the State Department felt
that this paper was important enough to warrant further
consideration, it could not agree to its withdrawal from
SWNCC at the present time. Consequently, I am writing
you to explain the Department's position and hope that
you will find an opportunity to bring the matter to
General MacArthur's attention. Before pressing for the
adoption of the paper by S:NCC in the near future, I
would appreciate any comments you may wish to make on
the validity of the arguments presented by me in defense
of the paper.
Sincerely yours,
8 1946
J. Hl Hilldring
Assistant Secretary
Enclosures:
1. Copy No. 53, SWNCC 298
M.Schule
2.opy No. 69, SWNCC 298/1
JA:HBorton:mls
11-15-46
FE
ADO
11/15744.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
My dear Mr. Atoheson:
I am enolosing for your information and that of
General MacArthur a copy or a paper entitled "Reform
of the Japanese Writing System and Language Problems
(SWNCC 298) and a memorandum by the War Member on
the same subject (SWN0c 298/1), now under considera-
tion by the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee.
You will note that the former conoludes that a simpli-
fication of the Japanese writing system would be 
highly beneficial to Japan but that the reform of the
system and the methods by whioh pueh referm is to be
achieved are problems to be deeided by the Japanese
Government and people, It is further conoluded that
the Supreme Commander should enoourage, but not order,
the Japanese Government to form a commission of quallful
Japanese experts to examine the desirability of language
reforms and to formulate a long range program for their
accomplishment.
It is the opinion of the State Department that
during the period of the occupation we should do
everything possible to encourage reforms whioh will
aid in the spread of democratic ideas and which will
permanently influence the educational system in Japan.
On the other hand we do not wish forcibly to 1mpose
language reforms upon the Japanese nor take steps
which might later be interpreted as pressure by the
occupation authorities to effect change in a writing
system
The Honorable
George Atcheson, Jr.,
United States Political Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
system which is part of the Japanese oultural herits
We believe, however, that the poliey outlimed in the
enolosed paper, by authorizing the Supreme Commander
mission to investigate the problem, would net entail
this danger and would at the same time give impetus
to the consideration of a reform of far-reaching
importance.
At the meeting of SWNC¢ on Ootober 16 I emphasised
the points mentioned above but the paper was not
acceptable to the War Department representative as
indicated in SWNCC 298/1 whiah had been distributed
previous to the meeting. He also objeoted to the paper
on the grounds that it placed General Maoarthur in a
position of having to take astion in a field which
would legally belong exclusively to the Japanese and
that the subject under referenee should not be son-
sidered by the FEC.
I informed SWNCC that the State Department felt
this paper was important enough to warrant further con-
sideration and consequently, rather than withdraw the
paper from SWNCC, I requested that it be left on the
agenda and offered to write you to obtain both your
views and those of General MacArthur on the whole
question. If no objection 1s perceived, I intend to
press for adoption of the paper by sWnCC.
Sincerely yours,
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary
Enclosures:
1. Copy No. 53, SWNCC 298
2. Copy No. 69, SWNCC 298/1
AP
JA: Heamerson:mls
OFE
ABortoH3
10-23-46

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
ANT
A-H
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
DEC 271946
FOR JAPAN
GENERAL HILLDRING
APO 500
Tokyo, December 14. 1946
RECELVED
1947
My dear General Hilldring:
L.C
894.402/12-1446
OY
ORIEF
894.402
I have received your letter of November 19. 1946 in regard
to a SWNCC paper, "Reform of the Japanese Writing System and
Language Problems", and have discussed it with General MacArthur.
It has been General MacArthur's feeling and that of the
Civil Information and Education Section that this is a matter
which should be left to the Japanese themselves, especially as
various Japanese educators are actively working on the problem
and there has been considerable interest in it as evidenced by
the adoption by vernacular newspapers of a simplified language
and the restriction of the number of ideographs and kana employed.
At the present time Dr. Abraham Halpern, who is well-known
as a linguistic expert from the University of Chicago, is en-
gaged in studies of the Japanese language with a view to making
these studies available to appropriate Japanese authorities in
an effort solely to assist them and in no way to direct them in
their own studies of this important problem. Dr. Halpern is
assisted by Dr. Scott George who obtained his doctorate in lin-
guistics. The whole question has been approached by the Occupa-
tion authorities from the argle of objective assistance to the
Japanese and in an attempt to avoid any suggestion of directive
or guidance toward a preconceived solution of the problem.
C
n
I do not speak Japanese, but I am told by some qualified
1
experts that romanization would merely touch the fringe of the
2
problem; that Japanese students in the primary and secondary
schools actually devote no more time solely to studying Japanese
than do students in such schools in the United States in study-
ing English; and that the real waste in language study lies in
FILED
the study of Chinese and Japanese classics rather than of modern
ideas.
894.402
Any arbitrary
The IHonorable
J. H. Hilldring,
(ADO)
Assistant Secretary of State,
Washington.
DEC946

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
Any arbitrary language effort would unquestionably arouse
opposition among the Japanese as being thought coercive in con-
nection with a purely cultural matter. This would probably be
reflected also in Chinese quarters as the Chinese seem to regard
as important the cultural heritage which the Japanese received
from them."General MacArthur is of the opinion that nothing
more can be done than is being done at present and therefore be-
lieves it unwise to agitate the question further.
Sincerely yours,
/gycthe
George Atcheson, Jr.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
December 27, 1946
JA
Mr. Borton
Attached is George Atcheson's reply
to the General's personal letter regarding
the SWNCC paper "Reform of the Japanese
Writing System and Language Problems". The
General is out of the City, as you know.
Gross has read the letter and thinks it is
responsive and suggests that you might want
to take it up with Schuler with the thought
of advising SWNCC of MacArthur's reaction.
I doubt, however, whether the letter itself
should be circulated to SWNCC.
Warde M. Cameron
Attachment

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
1/5/47
OIC. Mr. Stone
A-B, Mr. Benton
ADO. Mr. Schuler
Romanization Paper for Japan
You will note from the file herein-
under that we propose to withdrew the
paper on the Romanization of the Japanese
language. Our action is motivated, first,
by my discovery. on my recent trip to Japan.
that SCAP's ideas on the Romanization were
substantially like ours except they preferred
to have no directive on the subject lest
it upset their (SCAP's) internal objectivity
on the matter, and secondly. because Mr. Atcheson
says that, "General MacArthur is of the
opinion that nothing more can be done than
is being done at present and therefore
believes it unwise to agitate the question
further." If you concur would you be good
enough to initial the blue which Mr. Hilldring
will sign as State Member of SWNCC, and
pass it on to FE?
ADO: FASchuler. Jr./jg

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
1/8/47
JK Secretariat, Mr. Borton
ADO, Mr. Schuler
Reference Reply from Ambassador Atcheson to
General Hilldring's letter on the Romanization
Paper
From my recent conversations with SCAP
on this subject I am convinced that in this
instance SCAP will accomplish informally
what the paper intended to do formally, and
I think, therefore, that we should withdraw
the paper from SWNCC as per memo for General
Hilldring's signature attached. We would not.
however, agree with some of the assertions of
the SCAP language experts with respect to the
nature of the problem: for example, the ratio
between Japanese and American schools on the
time devoted to language instruction would be
at least 3 to 1 and not ecual as suggested.
ADO:FASchuler, Jr./jg

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.90)
Drth
HEMCRANTIOM TRON THE SRATE MBER, SECO
Subject: SWNCC 298 and SWECC 296/1, *Reform of the
894.402/12-
Japanese Writing System and Language Probleme"
As it would appear that appropriate steps are
being taken by the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers to achieve the objectives of this paper, it is
recommended that the paper be withdrawm.
ERECEIVED
2/20147
J. H. Hilldring
State Nember
H.n.K.
State-War-Havy Coordinating Committes
CS/A
894.402/12-1446
ADO:FASchuler, Jr./jg
1/2/46
JA
10T
A
Cet.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
January 21, 1947
JA
Mr. Borton
General Hilldring has agreed
on the proposal set forth in your
memorandum dated January 16, 1947.
ExecutiveRssistant
A-H

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.84)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Mr. E merson
Geo. arhezoris
ltter refened ton
uttorhed cable.
arried today. 
is alo altachek.
Whey both fit my
desde withsmint

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
DATE: 1/8/47
OIC, Mr. Stone
TO
A-B, Mr. Benton
FROM : ADO, Mr. Schuler
sUBJECT: Romanization Paper for Japan
You will note from the file herein-
under that we propose to withdraw the
paper on the Romanization of the Japanese
language. Our action is motivated, first,
by my discovery, on my recent trip to Japan,
that SCAP's ideas on the Romanization were
substantially like ours except they preferred
to have no directive on the subject lest
it upset their (SCAP's) internal objectivity
on the matter, and secondly, because Mr. Atcheson
says that, "General MacArthur is of the
opinion that nothing more can be done than
is being done at present and therefore
believes it unwise to agitate the questicn
further." If you concur would you be good
enough to initial the blue which Mr. Hilldring
will sign as State Member of SWNCC, and
pass it on to FE?
ADO:FASchuler, Jr./jg

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
DATB: 1/8/47
TO
: JK Secretariat, Mr. Borton
FROM : ADO, Mr. Schuler
suBject: Reference Reply from Ambassador Atcheson to
General Hilldring's letter on the Romanization
Paper
From my recent conversations with SCAP
on this subject I am convinced that in this
instance SCAP will accomplish informally
what the paper intended to do formally, and
I think, therefore, that we should withdraw
the paper from SWNCC as per memo for General
Hilldring's signature attached. We would not,
however, agree with some of the assertions of
the SCAP language experts with respect to the
nature of the problem: for example, the ratio
between Japanese and American schools on the
time devoted to language instruction would be
at least 3 to 1 and not equal as suggested.
Jr./jg
ADO: FASchuler

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
AH
Mr. Borton
soajact:
Reform of Japanese Writing System
SWNCC 298 has been discussed with
Mr. Atcheson who is strongly of the opinion
that no policy decision is required by SCAP
on this matter. Furthermore, it has been
announced that the reading and writing of
Romaji will be taught in the Jepanese echoole
beginning April 1. For these reaeons JA
is now prepared to concur in the attached
memo recommendine vithdrawal of the paper..
on:xa

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
onar
DATE: 1-16-47
ADO - Mr. Schuler
TO
A-H - Mr. Gross
FROM : JA - Mr. Borton
SUBJECT :
Reform of Japanese Writing System
and Language, SWNCC 298 series.
In reference to the attached memo-
randum from the State member of SWNCC
recommending that SWNCC 298 and 298/1
be withdrawn, I recommend that in view
of the visit of Mr. Atcheson to the De-
partment early in February that the
recommended action be postponed until
after his return and there has been
adeauate opportunity to discuss the
matter with him. While I recognize that
General MacArthur feels nothing more can
be done than is being done at present
on the matter, I hesitate to concur in
the withdrewal of the paper simply be-
cause SCAP feels it 1s unnecessary.
Lack of a policy on the matter by the
United States Government will not pre-
vent the question being raised in FEC
and a mere statement that no further
action is needed will not necessarily
satisfy the Commission. If you concur
with this recommendation I suggest the
file be returned to me with the under-
standing that we will call a meeting of
interested persons to discues the matter
with Mr. Atcheson upon his errival in
Washington.
HB
JA:HBorton:mls

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
ADO: Mr. Schuler
The attached reply from
George Atdheson to General
Hilldring'ε letter in regard
to the reform of the Japan-
ese writing system is refer-
red to you for comment and
suggestions.
JA: JKEmmerson: xa

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.90)
12/30
M. Camron's secretany
informs me that the
cable mentioned was
Mot sent. It was a
regost for reply to
Den. Hillding's letler
of 11-19-46.
J.5.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.94)
Delt
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, Januery ?,
1949.
VISION OF
No. 9
VORTHEAST ASTAN AFFAIRS
UNCLASSIFIED
1949
OEPARTMENT OF :STATE
Subject: Esteblishment of National Language Research Institute
x1.894.42
STATE
43
JH
The
Honorable
7
E0
The Secrgtary of State,
Washington.
10
CE
JAN 14
1M
Sir:
P
E
Chave the honor to report that the Japenese Diet passed on
NovemBer 25, 1948, a bill for the esteblishment of a National Language
Research Institute (Kokuritsu Kokugo Kenkyusho Setchi-Ho) to conduct
scientific research and studies in the Japanese language, and that the
bill was promulgated as Public Law No. 245 of the Third Diet on Decem-
ber 20, 1948.
894.402/1-749
1
The law, a translation of which is enclosed, places the Institute
under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Education, who supervises it
to the extent only of its budgetary and personnel affairs. The purpose
of the Institute is to conduct certein surveys end studies in the na-
tional language; on the basis of these, to prepare reference data and
materials for formulating nationel languege policies; to collect, pre
serve and release to the public date and materiale for national language
research; and to compile and publish certain specialized dictionaries.
pos
The Institute is to have a director, appointed by the Minister of Educa-
tion from among first cless officials of the Ministry, and a council of
CLI
twenty members whose ideas and advice the director is obliged to seek
regarding the annual projects, delegation of surveys and studies, and
DCk
other important matters which are within the deliberative responsibility
of the council.
C
S
There is a possible conflict in the law between the second para-
graph of Article I and Article X. The former, as already stated, makes
C0
supervision of the personnel affairs of the Institute the responsibility
of the Minister of Education, while Article X states that the selection
cording to the Language Simplification Unit of the Civil Information
C7
and Educetion Section, this Headquarters, this conflict is more apparent
than real inasmuch as the supervisory power given the Minister is under=
stood to be general and not to extend into actual personnel administra
tion. In framing the law the desideratum, according to the Language 
Simplification Unit of the Education Division, was to afford the Institute
the greatest
UNCLASSIFIED
FILED
6E0 11949

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 9,
January 7, 1949.
-2-
the greatest possible independence in choice of activity and in formulat-
ing conclusions from its research. It was not, however, considered fea-
eible to accord it the independence enjoyed in France by the Academie
Francaise, and its financial support was made subject to the Minister of
Educstion. As it was felt that the staff of the Institute would, for
lack of other trained personnel, have to be drawn largely from the Minis-
try, the conferring upon the Minister of Education of supervisory control
in personnel matters was aso unavoidable.
The officiel of this Headquarters in charge of the Language Simplifi-
cation Unit above mentioned desires to see the Institute avoid research
into matters of little importance, such as the standard accent of words,
as this field of work has already been covered by other research bodies
and a number of accent dictionaries already exist. Rather, it is to be
preferred, the official in question states, that research be concentrated
on matters that have not yet received full treatment in Japan, such as the
processes of language education from the viewpoints both of the learner
and of the teacher, linguistic problems in telecommunications, and Japa-
nese reading habits, particularly the degree of benefit which Japanese
obtein from reading.
The law is reported to have originated with the National Language
Section of the Education Ministry and to have been sponsored by a well-
known modern playwright and author, Mr. YAMAMOTO Yuzo, a member of the
House of Councillors. Conflict developed in the Educetion Committee of
the House regarding the extent of independence to be granted to the In-
stitute and was resolved by the grent of the limited authority to the
Minister of Education as set forth in Article I of the law.
The official interest of the Japanese Government in national language
research began in 1902, when the National Language Investigation Commis-
sion (Kokugo Chosa Iinkai) was established. This Commission, over the
course of eleven years, until it was dissolved for reasons of Government
economy in lsl3, compiled and published the results of a wide variety of
research into dialects, phonetics, grammar and the comparative value,
apprehensibility and uses of the several syllabary systems. A list of
2
its publications based on research accomplished is forwerded as encloeure
2 of this despatch. The Commission was revived in l92l as the Provisional
Committee for National Language Reseerch (Rinji Kokugo Chosakai) with the
object of giving a more practical direction to language research with a
view to benefitting the public. The Committee published a table of Chi-
nese characters in common use and a study on the phonetic use of the syl-
labaries. In spite of the beneficial objective of the Committee, these
two publications are thought to have had little effect upon common lan-
guage usage.
In 1934 this Committee was replaced by the Council on the National
Language (Kokugo Shingikai) established by Imperial Ordinance 33l of that
year as a consultative organ of the Educetion Minister. The Council has
since then published a scheme for the limitation of Chinese characters.
a proposed reform in the use of syllabaries, and a proposed simplification
of character forms. However, it has not received much popular support.
It continues to exist side by side with the new National Language Research
Institute
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 9,
January 7, 1949.
-3-
Institute but is for the most part inactive, functioning now merely as
an organ for the retification of decisions of the National Language Sec-
tion (Kokugoka) of the Education Ministry. (This Section checks impor-
tant bills introduced into the Diet for conformity to the standards of
official phraseology and for ambiguity.) The chief of the Language
Simplification Unit of the Civil Information and Education Section con-
siders that the Council on the National Language should be abolished as
its inadequacy was one of the principal reasons for creating the present
National Language Research Institute. In his opinion the judgments of
the Council have been based on insufficient research, and its research
techniques, like those of all linguistic research bodies in Japan hither-
to, are outmoded. However, no steps are being taken at present to ter-
minate the existence of the Council.
It is reported by a technical consultant of the Education Committee
of the House of Councillors that a recommendation will be made to the
Education Minister as to choice of the director of the National Language
Research Institute by a committee of approximately twenty leading figures
in the field of linguistics both within and without the Government who
have already been appointed by the Education Minister for this purpose.
The directorship will reportedly go to Mr. NISEIO Minoru, a graduate of
Tokyo Imperial University, who is at present a professor of national
language and literature at the Tokyo Women's University (Tokyo Joshi
Daigaku).
The need of language reform is widely recognized in Japan and is
attested by the efforts made in that direction by the Government since
the turn of the century and by many private bodies. The establishment
of the National Language Research Institute appears, however, to be the
first effective step toward laying a satisfactory foundation of knowl-
edge to support reform efforts. It is to be hoped that the Institute
will be furnished personnel of ability who will make a daring approach
to solution of Japanese language problems and that the Ministry of Edu-
cation, with its control over the budget, will not use its authority
arbitrarily to influence or stifle the activities of the Institute.
Respectfully yours,
brBece.
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1。
Translation Public Law 245
2.
List of publications of National
Language Investigation Commission
680
JDEdwards:gmd
Original and ozalid to Department
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 9,
dated January 7, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Establishment
UNCLASSIFIED
of National Language Research Institute".
CORY
(Translation)
Law of the Establishment of the National Language
Research Institute
(Aim and Establishment)
Article I. The National Language Research Institute (hereinafter re-
ferred to as the Institute) shall be established for the purpose
of conducting scientific surveys and studies in the national lan-
guage and the nation's linguistic life, thereby providing an
accurate and firm foundation for rationalizing of the national
language.
2. The Institute shall be under the jurisdiction of the Minister
of Bducation. The Minister of Education shall not supervise the
Institute as to matters other than those relating to the budget
as well as personnel affeirs of the Institute.
(Business)
Article 2. The Institute shall conduct the following surveys and
s tudies:
(1) Surveys and studies concerning the contemporery linguistic
lofe and linguistic culture,
(2) Surveys and studies concerning the historical development of
the national language,
(3) Surveys and studies concerning the aim, method and result of
the national language education,
(4) Surveys and studies of the language used in newspapers, radio
broadcasting, and other media of mass communication.
2. The Institute shall. on the basis of the surveys and studes
listed in the preceding paragraph, conduct the following business:
(1) Preparation of reference data and materials for formulating
national language policy.
(2) The collection, preservation and releasing to the public of
data and materials for research in the netional language,
(3) The compilation and publication of a present-day Japanese
dictionary, a dialect dictionary, a dictionary of the Japanese
language historically treated, and other results of the researches.
(Delegation of surveys and studies)
Article 3. As a metter of principle, the Institute shall not duplicate
surveys
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyots Despatch No. 9,
January 7, 1949.
-2-
surveys and studies previously done or now being carried on by
other research organs or individuals.
2. In order to avoid the duplication described in the preceding
paragraph, the Institute may delegate, as an enterprise of the
Institute itself, surveys and studies of the types designated in
any of the items of Paragraph 1 in the preceding article, to such
other suitable research organs or individuals as are engaged in
surveys and studies of type described.
(Director)
Article 4. The Institute shall have a director.
2. The Director shall be appointed from among first class Education
Ministry Instructors or Secretaries by the Minister of Education.
3. The Director shall not be, concurrently, other government offi-
cial or employee.
(Making public report)
Article 5. The Director shall officially make public at least once a
year a report concerning the condition and results of surveys and
s tudies.
(Council)
Article 6. The Institute shall have a Council.
2. The Council shall deliberate on the annual projects, the dele-
gation of surveys and studies, and other important matters of the
Institute and make recommendations to the Director.
3. The Director shall seek the ideas and advice of the Council
regarding the aforesaid important matters.
(Councillors)
Article 7. The Council shall consist of 20 Councillors.
2. The Councillors shall be appointed or commissioned by the
Minister of Education from among persons of learning and experience
in accordance with the provisions of the National Public Service
Law (Law No. 120 of 1947).
3. No government officials or employees, except members of the
educational service of schools, shall concurrently be Councillors.
4. The tenure of office of tne Councillors shall be 4 years.
Appointment of half the members shall take place every 2 years.
However, they may be reappointed or recommissioned.
5. The tenure of office of a substitute councillor shall cover
the remainder of his predessor's term of office.
Article 8. The Council shall have a chairman and a vice-chairman, who
have been elected from among the Councillors and their tenure of
office
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 9
January 7, 1949.
-3-
office shall be 2 years.
(Matters concerning management of the Council)
Article 9. Matters concerning the management of the Council other than
ordained by the present law shall be determined by the Minister of
Education upon the advice of the Council.
(Operation of Institute)
Article 1). The organization of the departments and sections of the
Institute, the selection and distribution of personnel, and
matters necessary to the operation of the Institute shall be
determined by the Director.
(Personnel)
Article ll. The fixed number of full-time Education Ministry Instructors
or Secretaries to be assigned to the Institute is shown in the fol-
lowing list.
Rank
lst class
2nd class
3rd class
total
Education
Ministry
3
10
12
25
Instructors or
Secretaries
Remarks. The fixed number of first class Instructors or Secretaries
shall include the Director.
2. The Education Ministry Instructors or Secretaries who are now
in the second or the third class shall not be promoted respectively
to the first or the second clas: referred to in the preceding para-
graph at the time of their transfer.
Supplementary Provisions
1. The present law shall come into force as from the day of its
promulgation.
2.
The tenure of office of the half of the Councillors appointed or
commissioned first after the enforcement of the present law shall
be 2 years.
heason
It is a matter of urgent necessity to establish the National Language
Research Institute for the purpose of conducting scientific surveys and
studies in the national language and the nation's linguistic life, there-
by providing an accurate and firm foundation for rationalizing the nation-
al language.
This is the reason why the present bill is to be submitted to the
Diet.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 9
January 7, 1949.
List of Publications
of
National Language Investigation Commission
1.
Reports on the Experiments with Regard to Difficulty of Reading
and Writing of "Eiragana" and "Katakana" (April 1904)
2.
Chronological Table of Theories on the Reform of Japanese Scrips
and the Japanese Language (April 1904)
3.
Collection of Dialectal Words (April 1904)
4.
Report of the Investigations on the Reform of the Current Japanese
Grammar (March 1905)
5.
Report of the Investigations on Sounds (March 1905)
6.
The Geographical Distribution of Sounds (March 1905)
7.
Grammar of Spoken Japanese (December 1906)
8.
Table of Necessary Chinese Characters (May 1908)
9.
Historical Data for the Study of the Use of "Kana" and Styles of
"Kana" Penmanship (March 1909)
10.
Report of the Investigation on Letter-writing in Spoken Language
(April 1911)
11.
A Study on "Heike Monogatari"  A Story of the TAIRAs
(December 1911)
12.
On the Use of "Kana" (March 1914)
13.
Grammar of the Japanese Spoken Language (December 1916)
14.
Grammar of the Japanese Spoken Lan uage (April 1917)
Note:
This list and the historical data in this despatch on the antecedents
of the new National Language Research Institute are taken from a Japa-
nese publication Developments in National Language Revision Since the
End of the War (Shusengo ni Okeru Kokugo Kairyo no Doko) by Shiraishi
Daiji, published by Shakaisha, June 25, 1947, pages 7-14.)
UNCLASSIFIED
