894.6341 Mines. Mining. Concessions., Precious Metals And Precious Stones., Japan, Gold., December 23, 1946 - October 13, 1947 (File 1600)
ID: 894.6341-1600   Pages: 34   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.6341-mines-mining-concessions-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Le - Mr. Freeman DATE: December 23, 1946

FROM: JK - Mr. Martin

SUBJECT: Request of French Representatives for Release of Certain
Earmarked Gold in Japan.

1. A meeting was held on December 19, 1946, at which time Messrs.
Robert Douteau and Marcel Clement, Representatives of French Govern-
ment, presented certain information to Messrs. Whitman, Smith and
McDiarmid of JK, Department of State, and indicated the position of
the French Government in respect to certain gold said to have been
earmarked in the name of the Saigon Branch, Bank of French Indo China,
and which the French Government now understands is in the vaults of
the former Yokohama Specie Bank, Tokyo. The French Government con-
siders this gold to be the legal property of the Bank of Indo China
and are prepared to ask that it be turned over to that Bank. No
written request for such action has as yet been submitted. The matter
is brought to your attention for comment, particularly on the legal
and political considerations that may be involved. The facts as verb-
ally set forth by the French representatives, and as supplemented by
information from other sources are as follows.

2. The French representatives stated that the earmarked gold con-
sists of 33,056,813.6 grams in the form of 2,283 gold bars and, at
current U.S. official price, is valued at approximately $37,310,000.
The earmarkings were made in payment for obligations incurred by the
Japanese Government in connection with imports to Japan from French
Indo China and Japanese military operations in that area. The portion
allocable to these two categories of obligations is not accurately known
but the French representatives understand about 50% may be attributable
to each. No definite information was given as to the years during which
this earmarking occurred, or the Japanese gold funds out of which ear-
markings were made. Supplementary information contained in a report
prepared in Division of Monetary Research, Treasury Department, entitled,
"Japanese gold production and operation of Gold Fund Special Account,"
indicates, however, that earmarkings for Indo China from the Japanese
Gold Fund Special Account were made in 1941, 1942, 1943 to the amounts
of $9.7 million, $10.4 million and $9.3 million respectively, for a
total of $29.4 million. No exact information is available as to the
source of the remaining $7.9 million (approximately) claimed by the
French representatives, but the recent discussions with the Treasury
it is understood that the French Government stated that approximately
$7 million in gold was earmarked by Japan for French Indo China account
prior to the extension of the Pacific war to French Indo China, or during
1940 and early 1941.

894.6341/12-23 46

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

3. The French representatives stated that their government did not consider its claim for this gold as falling under either the restitution or reparations programs and policies of the FEC. The basis, as stated, for this position, is that, since the gold was not confiscated in an allied country, no restitution problem is involved, and since the action of the Japanese Government in earmarking the gold represented an act of payment for Indo Chinese resources, no spoilation had occurred upon which a reparations claim could be based. A further reference was made to an exchange of letters between the U.S. and French Governments when France entered the FEC, the substance of which was that French interests in the Far East should be considered outside the FEC. This latter consideration was given as a reason for the direct approach to this government on the matter.

4. In further support of their position, the French representatives stated that repeated requests had been made to Japan during the war by French authorities to allow the transportation of this earmarked gold to Indo China, but without success. These requests together with the fact that these earmarkings represented some payment by the Japanese for resources taken from Indo China, are considered by the French as evidence of non-collaborationist policies of the French authorities.

5. At subsequent meetings with the French representatives, it is proposed to discuss in addition to the gold earmarkings, the Indo Chinese yen balances in Japan and a small amount of dollars for which they have a claim. The yen balances of Saigon Branch, Bank of Indo China which, as in the case of the gold earmarkings, arose out of Japanese imports from and military expenses in Indo China, are said to be in excess of one billion yen. It is felt that the time and manner of accrual of these yen balances may have some, though not an important bearing, on the disposition of the gold claim.

6. As far as is indicated from available information, the only other area for which Japan effected substantial gold earmarkings during the war, was Siam. Large amounts of Japanese gold were, however, shipped to occupied China for currency and exchange stabilization purposes and to finance military operations.

7. It is recommended that informal discussions of this matter be arranged as expeditiously as possible since the next meeting with the French representatives is scheduled for December 27, 1946.

JK:OJMcDiarmid:mw

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER

January 7, 1947.

JK - Mr. McDiarmid

REQUEST OF FRENCH REPRESENTATIVE FOR RELEASE OF
CERTAIN EARMARKED GOLD IN JAPAN

3519443

1. Let's comments have been requested on the legal and political considerations that may be involved in the anticipated request of the French Government for certain gold now in the vaults of the Yokohama Specie Bank, Tokyo. It appears that this gold was earmarked in the name of the Saigon Branch, Bank of French Indo-China, in payment for obligations incurred by the Japanese Government in connection with imports to Japan from French Indo-China. Of the total amount of $37,310,000 in gold bars, some $7,900,000 was earmarked by Japan for French Indo-China prior to extension of the Pacific War to French Indo-China, and the remainder subsequently. The French Government has taken the position that its claim for the gold does not fall under either the restitution or reparations program and policies of the FEC; that earmarking was tantamount to an act of payment for Indo-Chinese resources, and that consequently no spoliation occurred for which reparations could be claimed.

2. Existing directives of the Far Eastern Commission relative to the restitution of looted property (FEC-011 series in particular FEC-011/14, dated 5 August 1946, and see also SWNCC-227/13, 14 June 1946) deal only with property identified as having been located in an allied country at the time of occupation of that country and removed by fraud or duress by the Japanese. There is also under consideration by the Far Eastern Commission a statement of principles for the restitution of identifiable property confiscated in Japan from Allied nationals (cf. the C6-014 series, and FEC-011/20, dated 14 October 1946); but it is concerned exclusively with property located in Japan prior to 7 December, 1941, and which was seized, confiscated or sequestered during the war by the Japanese or by other enemy individuals or groups.

3. It seems clear that the gold here involved does not fall within either of the categories of property for which restitution is provided, or contemplated under FEC policies. If title to the gold is in the French Government or in a French governmental agency, it would seem difficult to dispute the right of France to the possession thereof. If, on the other hand, title did not pass as a result of the earmarking, the French Government would only have a claim as a general creditor against Japanese assets. The principal

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

principal legal question, therefore, would seem to be whether
earmarking by the Japanese operated as a transfer of property.

4. The Department of the Treasury (Office of the General
Counsel) has advised that in the practice of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, gold which is earmarked is con-
sidered as the physical property of the central bank for
which it is held, being roughly equivalent to a safe-deposit
box holding as distinct from a general account against the
bank. Earmarking involves an actual physical moving of the
gold bars into another vault, and a segregation of the bars
from other gold. JK's memorandum does not disclose what
"earmarking" by the Japanese in the Yokohama Bank involved;
presumably banking practices on this point are more or less
uniform. It would seem, nevertheless, important to ascer-
tain definitely whether this earmarking had the effect of a
dispositive act, rather than being a mere bookkeeping entry
the result of which might be merely to leave the French
Government with a general claim against Japan.

5. Accordingly, Ie is of the opinion that if the ear-
marking resulted in a passage of property in the gold, the
French Government's claims thereto would be justified. This
conclusion is predicated upon the assumption that the Bank
of French Indo-China is a French governmental agency. But
it is not believed that the result would vary even if the
bank were a private institution. The present memorandum
expresses no opinion on the extent to which existing
directives of the Supreme Commander relative to the block-
ing of gold and other precious metals, would affect the
right of France to effect a removal of the earmarked gold.

6. While the French claim to the gold therefore has
a substantial legal basis, serious policy considerations
are here involved which should not be lightly disregarded
in the final position to be taken on this property. It
seems unquestionable that no earmarking would have occurred,
or indeed, the transactions giving rise thereto, had it not
been for the collaborationist activity of the Vichy regime
of De Coux in Indo-China. The source of the gold, in con-
sequence, was in activities directed against the Allies.
It may be true that as a matter of law such right as
exists to the gold was not that of the Vichy regime, but
inheres in the French State, and that if the Japanese paid
for property which might otherwise have been confiscated,
that is a part of the fortunes of war. Nevertheless, it
cannot be said that in asserting the right, the French
Government comes with "clean hands", and to recognize it
would be to place a premium upon activity which was
prejudicial to the conduct of Allied operations. Finally,
to permit withdrawal of the gold would be inconsistent
with the

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-

with the practice which Le understands has been followed with respect to assets of the Philippine and other puppet governments in Japan.

7. For these reasons, Le is not disposed to conclude that the legal argument set forth above should necessarily override considerations of policy which conduce to the opposite result.

Alwyn V. Freeman

Le:AVFreeman:Vl

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : FE - John Carter Vincent
EUR - Mr. Matthews
FROM : ESP - Mr. Robinson

DATE: January 17, 1947

SUBJECT: Request of French for Release of Gold Earmarked
by the Japanese Government.

Representatives of the French Government have submitted to JK a verbal request that certain gold said to have been earmarked by the Japanese Government in the name of the Saigon Branch, Bank of French Indo China, and which the French Government understands is now in the vaults of the former Yokohama Specie Bank, Tokyo, be released to the Bank of French Indo China, for use by French authorities in French Indo China. The French Government considers this gold to be the legal property of the Bank of French Indo China, and is not willing that their claim for it be considered in connection with the reparation settlement. The matter is brought to your attention for information and comment, particularly in respect to the political considerations that may be involved in considering the French request.

The French Government desires to have a decision made on the principles involved prior to a consideration of the technical details of the matter. The French representatives have stated that the earmarked gold is valued at approximately 37.3 million dollars. This amounts to approximately 18% of the present gold holdings of the Japanese Government. The earmarkings were made by the Japanese Government in payment to French Indo China for imports to Japan and for Japanese military operations in French Indo China. No definite information has been supplied as to the exact purposes for which earmarkings were made, the periods during which they occurred, or the Japanese gold funds out of which transfers were effected. Supplementary information regarding transactions in the Japanese Gold Fund Special Account, indicate that earmarkings for Indo China from that account were made in 1941, 1942, and 1943, to the total amount of 29.4 million dollars. No information is available as to the remaining 7.9 million dollars in gold claimed by the French representatives, but it is considered likely that approximately this amount was earmarked during 1940 or early 1941. Inasmuch as it is considered that the treatment of this claim may well depend upon the exact purposes of the earmarkings and the time at which earmarkings were made in relation to the political developments in the relations of this and other Allied Governments with French Indo China, a request has been sent to the Supreme Commander to obtain from the Japanese Government all pertinent information that may be available in Tokyo. Special importance may attach to the amount of earmarkings made prior to the Japanese Occupation of French Indo China in May 1941, the amount earmarked between May and December 8, 1941, and subsequent to that date. Information available here, indicates that approximately 17.6 million dollars was earmarked before December 8, 1941 and 19.7 million dollars between that date and March 1943, when an agreement was reached between French Indo China and Japan, providing for

settlement

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -

settlement of balances in blocked yen.

The French representatives have stated that their Government does not consider its claim for this gold as falling under either the restitution or reparations programs and policies of the FEC. The basis for this position is that since the gold was not confiscated in an Allied country, no restitution problem is involved, and since an action of the Japanese Government in earmarking the gold represented payment for Indo Chinese resources, no spoilation occurred upon which a reparations claim could be based. Tentative opinion held by JK Division is that only such gold as may have been earmarked by Japan prior to occupation of French Indo China in May, 1941, should be considered as the proceeds of normal commercial transactions and therefore apart from the general reparations settlement. It is further believed that the treatment of this claim may have important relations to consideration of claims for assets formerly belonging to puppet regimes and to organizations and individuals formerly in Japan under Japanese domination in occupied areas.

The French Government has indicated that in addition to the gold earmarkings, it will have a claim for some 1.3 billion yen now on deposit in the YSB to the account of Saigon Branch, Bank of French Indo China, and for a small amount of dollars also on deposit there. The French representatives have indicated, however, that their Government may be willing to consider its claim for yen and dollars in connection with the general reparation settlement.

Your comment on the questions raised by the French Government will be appreciated for use in further discussions with the French representatives.

JK:OJMcDiarmid:mw

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
H Gen. Gold Hldg. - China
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : ES - Mr. Fletcher. DATE: January 20, 1947
FROM : Le/E - Mr. Metzger.
SUBJECT: Chinese gold discovered on premises of German Legation in China.

Pursuant to our recent discussion concerning this question, I suggest that the gold now in custody of the Navy Department following its discovery in the premises of the German Legation in China, be turned over to the Chinese Government with a request to that Government to hold it for the account of IARA if it is discovered to have been brought to China from Germany.

This differs from your recommendation that SCAP determine whether the gold was looted, and return it to China only in the event that it were not looted. The reason for my recommendation are:

1. China was not a party to the IARA Gold Resolution.
2. It is doubtful whether the IARA Gold Resolution was intended to apply to the Far East; it was apparently intended to cover those territories which were under German occupation or influence during the war.
3. The amount of gold involved in this particular case and probably in all other such cases is quite small.
4. The US came into possession of this small amount of gold under unusual circumstances; if any significant amount of such gold exists in China it is probably not in non-Chinese hands.

Under these circumstances it appears to be far more profitable to invite Chinese accession to the IARA Gold Resolution at the time of returning this gold to China, rather than apply the technical language of the IARA Gold Resolution.

Le/E:SDMetzger;nlc

F83.6341/1-20 47

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
OFFICE MEMORANDUM • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: March 30, 1947
TO: Mr. Vincent
EUR - Mr. Matthews
FROM: JK - Mr. Martin
SUBJECT: French Claim to Earmarked Gold in Japan

The State Department is faced with several decisions with respect to French participation in the war against Japan.

Fundamentally, two issues are involved.

1. What was the position of the French authorities in French Indo-China vis-a-vis the Japanese occupation forces?

2. When, in the course of the war with Japan, did France acquire a belligerent status which was applicable to French Indo-China.

The issues affected by the answers to these questions are also two.

1. What claim does France have to gold earmarked to the account of the Saigon Branch of the Bank of French Indo-China by Japan in payment for goods and local currency for military expenditures furnished by Indo-China to the Japanese between November 4, 1941 and May 1, 1943?

2. For costs and losses in what period of time does France have a claim against Japan for reparations?

In the case of the gold, about 37 million dollars is at issue. The French want it turned over to them now, not as reparations or restitution, but as an asset owned by them in full title, which only by accident was not shipped from Japan and was not in the vaults in Saigon when the war ended.

The French Government in Indo-China during this period when the country was occupied may be considered to have been, in relation to Japan:

1. Neutral, in which case the French might have a claim to gold under the policies to be established with respect to the return of United Nations property found in Japan at the close of the war, though if the draft treaty for Austria is any precedent it seems unlikely that property acquired after the U.S. declared war will be recognized for this purpose. However, for restitution policies for the return of UN property in Japan, the French at FEC have cited August or September 1940 as the

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
date for the beginning of hostilities between France and
Japan as Jap bases were then established in northern Indo-
China.

2. Puppet, in which case it is possible that U.S. policy
will be to return to the successor governments, in this case
France, the assets in Japan of puppet regimes, although it is
also possible that they will be considered to be Japanese
assets. (The French will certainly deny that a puppet regime
existed). In any case, it is not contemplated title to puppet
assets will pass to successor governments pending the repara-
tions settlement.

3. Belligerent, in which case there would be a restitution
claim for the goods for the removal of which the gold was paid
or a reparations claim for the value of the resources and
manpower embodied in the goods, but no claim for the gold it-
self. (Since the gold was earmarked in accordance with an agree-
ment signed by the Government of French Indo-China, this govern-
ment was certainly not a belligerent de facto. De jure the
De Gaulle Government was at war with Japan from 1941 but the
U.S. did not recognize the sovereignty of this government over
French Indo-China until October 1944. The Vichy Government
never declared war on Japan.)

4. Collaborative, in which case the gold was acquired by acts
on the part of a legitimate government which were tainted, and
it is politically undesirable to recognize a French claim to
them. (It may be noted in this connection that this account
was never treated as "Enemy" by the Japanese Government.)

JK proposes to consider that the government of French Indo-
China during this period was acting in collaboration with the Jap-
anese Government, and, therefore, has no claim of any sort for the
gold.

JK would like to secure the views of FE and EUR on this point
at an early date as the French are pressing for an answer on the
issue of principle involved.

On the second question JK proposes, if pressed by the French
to do so, to defend the 1% allocation of reparations to France by
stating that the belligerency of French Indo-China, in which all
the damage at the hands of the Japs was suffered, did not start
until October 1944, at the earliest. This is the date on which we
recognized De Gaulle sovereignty over French Indo-China. De facto
the

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
the scattered opposition to the Jap occupation in 1940 does not justify a status of belligerency. It is generally accepted reparations policy to include only claims for costs and damages incurred after the existence of a state of belligerency.

Again, JK would like the comments of FE and EUR on this proposed position.

JK:EM@artin:jph ESP
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
DATE: April 24, 1947

TO: JK - Mr. Martin
FROM: FE - Mr. Vincent
SUBJECT: Gold credits in Japan in accounts subject to the French
Indochinese and Siamese Governments

Reference is made to your memorandum of March 5,
1947, concerning gold credits in Japan to the account
of the Saigon Branch of the Bank of Indochina, which
were established in payment for goods and local cur-
rency for military expenditures furnished by the French
Government of Indochina to the Japanese between November
4, 1941 and May 1, 1943.

It seems essential to consider not only these gold
credits but also those credited to the account of the
Siamese Government for similar purposes in as much as
the cases are alike. It is believed that the United
States Government should adopt identical policies with
reference to the gold credit accounts at Tokyo of the
Siamese and French Indochinese Governments.

The questions at issue are:

1. What was the position of the Governments with
reference to the Japanese occupation forces?

2. When, in the course of the war against Japan,
did those Governments acquire a belligerent
status?

In Annex A it is shown that the French Government
of Indochina, under duress, assisted Japanese forces in
the course of aggression by furnishing goods, local cur-
rency, and other facilities from about August 30, 1940
to March 9, 1945. On March 9, 1945 the Japanese took
over the administration of Indochina and replaced high
French officials with Japanese on the grounds that the
French were no longer providing adequate facilities.

In Annex B it is shown that the Government of Siam,
likewise under duress, assisted Japanese forces from
December 8, 1941 to May 25, 1945. The Government of
Siam of which Phibun Songgram was Prime Minister, under
Japanese pressure agreed on December 8, 1941 to provide
facilities for the transit and feeding of Japanese troops.

This

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-

This agreement was replaced by a formal Pact of Alliance on December 21, 1941. Practical assistance was given the forces of Japan during the subsequent years until on May 25, 1945, the Siamese Resistance Movement, led by the Regent, was prepared to act belligerently against the enemy but yielded to the requests of the Acting Secretary of State and of the Supreme Allied Commander of the Southeast Asian Command to avoid provoking open warfare with the Japanese until it would be possible to coordinate the efforts of the Siamese Resistance Movement with those of Allied troops.

In brief then, the Government of French Indochina gave assistance to the enemy from August 30, 1940 to March 9, 1945, and the Siamese Government did likewise from December 8, 1941 to May 25, 1945.

In view of the foregoing, it is believed that all gold credits established in Tokyo in accounts subject to the Governments of French Indochina and Siam during the foregoing designated periods, during which facilities were provided Japanese forces in the course of aggression, should be forfeited on the grounds that those Governments were giving aid to the enemy. Any gold credits established before or after those periods should be considered the rightful property of those Governments and should be made available to them.

The French Government may assert, however, that all gold credits at Tokyo, regardless of when or why established, belong to the present Government of French Indochina as the legal successor of that Government which, under duress, provided facilities for the enemy. If the French are successful in pressing their claim to all of the gold credits in Tokyo under discussion, then it is believed that a similar decision should be made with respect to the Siamese Government, which is the legal successor of a Government which likewise acted under duress and whose acts were disavowed by the successor Government at the earliest opportunity. If all of the French gold credits at Tokyo revert to the present Government of French Indochina, then likewise all of the Siamese gold credits should revert to the present Government of Siam.

J.C.V.

SEA:KPLandon:mtb
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 14 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
ANNEX A
French Indochina

The questions at issue are:

I. What was the position of the French authorities in French Indochina vis-à-vis the Japanese occupation forces?

II. When, in the course of the war with Japan, did France acquire a belligerent status which was applicable to French Indochina?

I.

With regard to Question I, it is FE's view that the French Government of Indochina, under duress, began to provide facility to Japanese forces some time between June 19, 1940 and September 23, 1940. The following events which took place during this period may be cited:

1. On June 19, 1940 (two days after news of the French request for an armistice in Europe was received in the Far East), General Catroux, Governor-General of Indochina, yielded to Japanese pressure and decided to close the Indochinese border to shipments to China. He authorized the Japanese themselves to supervise, on the spot in Tonkin, the effective cessation of this traffic.

2. As the result of a Japanese ultimatum of August 2, 1940, demanding that Japanese forces be permitted transit through Tonkin and the possession of airfields in Indochina, the French on August 30, entered into an agreement with the Japanese recognizing "the dominant interests of Japan in the Far East in the economic as well as in the political domain," guaranteeing "to Japan and its nationals, in Indochina, the most advantageous possible situation and, in any case, a predominating situation as compared with that of other third powers," and providing for discussions between French and Japanese military authorities to determine what military facilities would be required by Japan in Indochina.

3.

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
3. Between September 5 and 22, supplementary agreements were concluded authorizing the landing of Japanese troops in Indochina, the quartering of 6,000 Japanese troops in Indochina, the passage of Japanese troops (not to exceed 25,000 at one time) through Indochina to China, and the use by the Japanese of certain airfields.

4. On September 23, a Japanese armed force which had been specifically excluded from the foregoing agreements, crossed the Indochina border from China and was resisted by the French. Within two days, the opposing French force was compelled to surrender. Meanwhile, although the Japanese had obtained the right to land troops at Haiphong, they apparently preferred to force a landing and did so at Doson. They also bombed Haiphong. The French were under the impression that the Japanese forces engaged in these operations had acted independently. The incidents were settled under the terms of the September 22 agreement.

FE believes that the signing of the August 30, 1940 Agreement might well be considered as marking the definite beginning of the period of collaboration.

Other noteworthy developments occurring before November 4, 1941 and bearing upon the question of Indochina's status may also be mentioned:

1. On October 7, 1940, Indochina was given customs autonomy.

2. On October 14, 1940, the Japanese insisted upon sending a mission to Hanoi to commence discussions of Indochina's economic relations with Japan as envisaged in the Agreement of August 30, 1940, despite French contentions that discussion should be held in Tokyo.

3. On May 6, 1941, an agreement concerning customs, commercial exchanges and method of payment and a convention of establishment and navigation concerning Indochina with related documents was signed at Tokyo. While these agreements for the most part provided for most-favored-nation for Japan or national treatment in

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
in Indochina for Japanese nationals, the Japanese received substantially preferential treatment over the nationals of third powers.

4. On July 29, 1941, a French-Japanese protocol was signed at Vichy by which France undertook "to conclude in regard to Indochina no agreement or understanding with a third power which envisages political, economic, or military cooperation of a character directly or indirectly opposed to Japan". Further, the two governments promised "to cooperate in military matters for the defense of French Indochina".

5. On October 2, 1941, the Acting Secretary of State in commenting upon this agreement stated that in effect it "virtually turns over to Japan an important part of the French Empire." He added "effort has been made to justify this agreement on the ground that the Japanese assistance is needed because of some menace to the territorial integrity of French Indochina by other powers. The Government of the United States is unable to accept this explanation". He further stated that under the circumstances "this Government is impelled to question whether the French Government at Vichy in fact proposes to maintain its declared policy to preserve for the French people the territories both at home and abroad which have long been under French sovereignty."

II.

With regard to Question II, FE considers that the acquisition by France of a belligerent status toward Japan did not apply to Indochina until March 9, 1945. On that date the Japanese assumed direct control of Indochina. While it is understood that many Frenchmen continued in administrative positions, the higher officials were on this date replaced by Japanese. Of the French armed forces, some resisted while others were disarmed and interned. Eventually those which had fought were killed, captured or forced to flee. The significant point is that before March 9, 1945, the Japanese must be judged to have been content with the French Administration of Indochina and not until then did they find it necessary to supplant this administration with one of their own in

order

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-6-

order to assure the preservation of their interests and attainment of their objectives in the area. Moreover, there is good reason to believe that this change of policy was dictated not by any stiffening of the attitude of the French in Indochina but rather by the success of the American armed forces in the Philippines and by the beginning of the rout of the Burma Area Army by the British. These developments together indicated that Indochina might soon be the object of a direct assault, which would require the consolidation of maximum power in Japanese hands.

SEA: COgburn:eh
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-7-
ANNEX B
SIAM

The questions at issue are:

I. What was the position of the Siamese Government with reference to the Japanese occupation forces?

II. When, in the course of the war against Japan, did the Siamese authorities acquire a belligerent status?

I.

With regard to Question I, it is known that a few weeks before Japan struck, the Siamese sent a military mission throughout Malaya to see how prepared the British were for war against Japan. Siamese officials in Indochina had already provided extensive reports on the strength of Japanese forces in Indochina. On December 8, 1941, acting under duress and faced with an ultimatum, the Siamese Government informally agreed to provide facilities for the transit and feeding of Japanese troops in their prosecution of the war.

On December 21, 1941, Japan and Siam signed a Pact of Alliance including the following articles:

1. An alliance is to be established between Japan and Siam on the basis that each will respect the independence and sovereignty of the other.

2. In case either Japan or Siam is engaged in an armed conflict with an outside country or countries, Siam or Japan will immediately join with the party to this Pact and will accord all assistance politically, economically, and militarily.

3. Details relative to the execution of Article 2 will be determined by common agreement between the competent authorities of both Japan and Siam.

4.

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 19 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 8 -

4. In case Japan and Siam are engaged in a common war, Japan and Siam agree that neither party will conclude an armistice or peace treaty without the complete agreement of both parties.

5. The present Pact will come into force on the date of signature. It will be in force for a period of ten years. Both parties will consult each other on the subject of renewing the said Pact before its expiration.

On January 25, 1942, the Siamese Government made an independent declaration of war on Great Britain and the United States. Practical assistance in the form of loans of baht currency for the use of Japanese troops, goods and other facilities were provided by the Siamese Government during the subsequent years.

II

With reference to Question II, on March 13, 1945, the Siamese Minister, M. R. Seni Pramoj, together with two representatives of the Siamese Resistance Movement who had escaped from Siam and come to Washington on a special mission in behalf of the Regent of Siam, Pridi Banomyong, asked the Department for advice as to whether Siamese representatives of the Resistance Movement outside of Siam should declare war against the Axis nations. The Siamese Minister stated that the Regent was eager to identify Siam with the United Nations. This was one in a series of conversations between representatives of the Siamese Resistance Movement and Officers of the Department on the general subject of how Siam should proceed in order to join forces with the Allied nations against the Axis powers.

On May 21, 1945, the Siamese Regent sent a message to the Secretary of State to the effect that the Siamese Resistance Movement continually adhered to the advice of the American representatives not to take any premature action against the enemy; that at this time he believed that the Japanese desire to fight could be weakened if the Resistance Movement no longer tried to remain under cover; that the Siamese Resistance Movement was blocking every effort of the Japanese forces to secure substantial assistance from the Siamese in support of their war; that the Japanese were suspicious of the existence of a Siamese Resistance Movement and that an open break might occur

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 20 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 9 -

occur at any time; that the Japanese were demanding additional credit of 100,000,000 bahts, which loan the Siamese Government was attempting to avoid; the existing Government would not remain in office if the Japanese persisted in the matter; that then a new Government would take action against the Japanese by declaring void all debts and agreements previously contracted with the Japanese including the declaration of war against Great Britain and the United States; and that before going ahead with this plan he desired to inform the Secretary of the situation. The Siamese Regent concluded his message by asking that, on the day that open action began against the Japanese, the United States would declare her respect for Siam's independence and state that Siam was regarded not as an enemy but as a member of the United Nations. An almost identical message was sent to the Supreme Allied Commander of the Southeast Asian Command.

On May 25, 1945, the Supreme Allied Commander of the Southeast Asian Command sent a message to the Siamese Regent urging him to prevent sabotage actions which might provoke the Japanese to assume control of Siam.

On May 28, 1945, the Acting Secretary of State answered the Siamese Regent and urged him to prevent premature action which would precipitate the taking over of the Siamese Government by the Japanese. The Acting Secretary assured the Regent that at the appropriate time the United States Government would reiterate its respect for Siamese independence and declare that at no time had it considered Siam an enemy.

The Siamese Regent replied to the Acting Secretary of State and to SACSEA that every possible means would be used to avoid an open clash with the Japanese, stating that only in case the Japanese forced the issue would there be an open break. In order to prevent an open clash, the Regent stated that the Siamese Government would be required to loan the Japanese another 50,000,000 baht.

It seems clear from the foregoing that the Siamese Resistance Movement was prepared to act overtly against the enemy but withheld action on instruction of SACSEA on May 25, 1945, and the Acting Secretary of State on May 28, 1945.

SEA:KPLandon:eh:sg
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office of FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 20 1947
DIRECTOR
Department of State
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: May 16, 1947.

TO: EUR - Mr. Matthes
FE - Mr. Vincent
FROM: WE - S. Reber

SUBJECT: Gold credits in Japan in accounts subject to the French
Indochinese and Siamese Governments.

WE agrees with the conclusions contained in Mr.
Vincent's memorandum of April 24, 1947, to the effect
that gold credits established in Tokyo in accounts
subject to the Governments of French Indochina and Siam
during a period to be designated when facilities were
provided Japanese forces in the course of aggression,
should be forfeited on the grounds that those govern-
ments were giving aid to the enemy. Any gold credits
established before or after those periods should be
considered the rightful property of the government
concerned and should be made available to it. Inasmuch
as this conclusion is based on the ground that supplies
for which payment is sought were used to give aid to
the enemy, it is difficult, however, to see how we can
consider the period during which these supplies were
turned over to the enemy would begin before the United
States was at war with Japan. Therefore it is suggested
that it be established that the Government of French
Indochina gave assistance to the enemy from December 8,
1941 to March 9, 1945. Although Japan's acts prior to
that date were of an aggressive nature, can it be legally
designated as the enemy prior to December 7, 1941?

WE: SReber: mdm

894.6341/5-1647

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : The Secretary
DATE: May 29, 1947
FROM : General Hilldring - A-H
SUBJECT: French Earmarked Gold in Japan

1. The Ambassador of France has requested the release to the French Union of 37.3 million dollars in gold earmarked on French account during the war by the Japanese Government and now in the custody of our forces in Japan. The memorandum attached hereto is with respect to this request.

2. The gold was earmarked during the period of Japanese occupation of French Indochina in payment of Indochinese exports to Japan and Japanese military expenses in Indochina. It is believed the French claim is properly a reparations matter, as the origin of the claim is resources taken from Indochina during Japanese occupation. A yes claim arising under identical circumstances, is being regarded as a reparations matter by the French.

3. Recognition of the French claim would almost certainly engender recognition of a Siamese claim involving an even greater amount of earmarked gold (43.7 million dollars), and would substantially reduce the amount of Japanese liquid assets available to create a revolving fund to finance Japanese foreign trade.

4. There is substantial legal basis for the French request, for possession of this gold, but serious policy considerations lead to a negative reply. Moreover, recognition of the French request would give the French an undue advantage with respect to payment for resources exploited by the Japanese in Indochina as compared with other Japanese-occupied areas which will obtain payment for exploited resources under reparations procedures.

5. It is recommended that the French claim be regarded by this government only as a reparations matter, and that the Ambassador of France be so informed. There is attached for your approval, a proposed draft note to this effect.

JK:RBParke:mw ESP LE LE/e FN SEA NA EUR A-H

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : A-T - Mr. Thorp
A-H - General Hilldring
DATE: July 17, 1947

FROM : OFD - Mr. Ness
SUBJECT: Indo-Chinese Gold Earmarked in Japan.

In the attached memorandum JK recommends that the French
Ambassador's request for the release of $37.5 million of gold
held in Japan and earmarked for the account of the Bank of
Indo-China be denied and that the French claim be regarded
as a reparation claim.

OFD recommends that the French Ambassador be informed
that the U.S. will support the French claim and that:

(a) the U.S. member will be instructed to introduce
a resolution to this effect in the Far Eastern
Commission, or,

(b) the U.S. member will be instructed to support
a resolution to this effect that the French
member may introduce in FEC, or,

(c) SCAP will be instructed to effect the release
of the gold.

This recommendation is based on the following considerations:

1. It is the policy of the U.S. to maintain as far as
possible the inviolability of international trans-
actions involving the legal transfer and earmarking
of monetary gold.

2. In the European theater gold has not been made the
subject of reparations, nor have claims for restitu-
tion of monetary gold been treated as reparation
claims. The allied objective has been to restore to
the rightful owners gold looted by Germany during the
war regardless of the magnitude of reparation claims
for other categories of losses.

3. It is the intention of this Government, for instance,
to request the retransfer to the European gold pool
of German gold transferred to Japan and now in the
custody of SCAP. This action in itself would violate
the principle proposed by JK that Japanese-held gold
be declared available exclusively for reparation
purposes.

4. The

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-

4. The contention that, in evaluating the French claim for the release of earmarked Indo-Chinese gold in Japan, consideration must be given to the conditions under which such earmark occurred runs counter to precedent in Europe. No attempt has been made in Europe to recover gold paid by Germany to other nations - axis countries or countries occupied by the Germans - in return for services and supplies rendered by such nations, provided such gold had not been looted by the Germans.

5. Refusal to grant the French request for release of the Indo-Chinese gold would not benefit other Far Eastern reparations claimants. Under a resolution introduced by the U.S. the FEC is being asked to make Japanese gold available in part to cover occupation costs under the first charge principle and in part to be used as a revolving fund to finance Japanese foreign trade.

M
FN:MLevy-Hawes:erm SEA NA EUR A-T A-H

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.94)
FRANCE
CONFIDENTIAL

Office Memorandum · UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: 7/21/47

TO : A-T - Mr. Thorp
A-H - General Hilldring

FROM : OFD - Mr. Ness

SUBJECT:

With reference to the attached memorandum, I have been informed that the Treasury Department will strenuously oppose any decision not to release the Indo-Chinese gold to the French Union.

FN:MLB:Hawes:erm

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
FRANCE
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: A-T - Mr. Thorp
A-H - Mr. Hilldring

FROM: FE - Mr. Vincent

SUBJECT: Indochinese Gold Earmarked in Japan.

I have initialed the memorandum by JK on Earmarked Indochina Gold in Japan. I have not initialed the memorandum by OFD.

With regard to paragraph 10 of the JK supporting memorandum, I feel that the criterion as to the holding or release of French, Siamese, Italian and Chinese gold earmarked in Japan should be whether at the time of such earmarking the area in question was in fact collaborating with Japan. I attach a copy of a memorandum which I sent JK on April 24 in which I recommended that Indochinese gold earmarked between August 30, 1940 and March 9, 1945 and Siamese gold earmarked between December 8, 1941 and May 25, 1945 should not be released but be regarded as reparations matters (and that French and Siamese gold respectively earmarked before or after those dates should be released). WE concurred in the basic premise but expressed the view that December 8, 1941, not August 30, 1940, should be the determinant date for Indochina. While preferring the earlier date, I would accept this as a compromise. The net effect would be the release of $12,000,000 to France and $8,000,000 to Siam.

If the August 30, 1940 date is adopted there will be no release of gold to France and the JK memorandum would appear satisfactory. It would be appropriate, however, I believe for the note to explain the criterion adopted in view of the probable release of Siamese gold earmarked prior to December 8, 1941. If December 8, 1941 be adopted as a determinant date for Indochina, the note should be re-drawn so to explain the criterion used, and set forth our willingness that SCAP release that amount; but that we believe the post-December 8 earmarked gold should be treated as a reparations matter.

894.6341/7-2447

SEA: ALMoffat:nrs
ahn

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
August 7, 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LE/E
NOV 12 1947
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
OFFICE OF THE LEGAL ADVISER

Mr Martin OF
Survey has added his
Comments
A-T - Mr. Wood

Subject: Indo-Chinese gold earmarked in Japan

It would appear that the basic issue to be decided with respect to the French Indo-China gold is political in character rather than legal. Following the points listed in both JK's and OFD's memoranda, the following observations can be made:

1. JK is correct in stating that a major question to be decided is whether the gold earmarked is to be recognized as accruing from a series of valid commercial transactions. However, the fact that these transactions may have been made under duress during Japanese occupation of French Indo-China is not to determine that the French do not have a claim for the gold. Since the duress was exercised by the Japanese against French Indo-China, the latter would legally be justified in claiming that they gave recognition to the transactions made under duress to the extent of now claiming the compensation for such transactions in the form of the earmarked gold.

2. I know of no similar case arising in the European theater; consequently, the fact that in the European theater our policy has been confined to the restitution of looted gold does not prohibit a decision at this time that a similar policy of restitution can be applied to earmarked gold under the facts of the case.

3. I do not believe that the comments of either memorandum on this point add much to the case.

4. The JK memorandum admits that had Japanese gold been paid and shipped to China, in return for goods and services, the policy would not be for returning the gold to Japan. However, if that is so, it can just as easily be argued that the mere fact that the Japanese failed to ship the gold to French Indo-China should not prejudice the recovery of the gold by the French. Moreover, the legal effect of the earmarking can be claimed to be equal to an actual shipment of the gold to French Indo-China. It is not believed that a decision should be made solely on the basis of whether earmarked gold was actually shipped to the country for which it was earmarked or whether it was merely held for their account.

5. No comment.

Summary:

From a legal standpoint, therefore, a decision is not dictated one way or the other. I would be inclined to state that a better legal case could be

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -

made out for the return of the earmarked gold to France. In the event that the decision is to return the gold to France, I believe that the case should be indirectly tied up with the various questions which the Under Secretary is scheduled to take up concerning Italian-French differences. While the return of this gold to France should not be related directly to, for example, the participation of Italy in the distribution of the Swiss gold, nevertheless, it is possible that a decision favorable to the French in this case would bring about a reversal of the French present position whereby they are opposed to Italy's sharing in the looted gold recovered from Switzerland. In other words, while the matters need not be related to each other, the decision in this case, if favorable to France's claim, might conveniently be discussed simultaneously with the Swiss gold problem.

W. S. Surrey

W. S. Surrey: PJ

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
WAR DEPARTMENT
WAR DEPARTMENT SPECIAL STAFF
CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
1457

WDSCA 386.3 13 August 1947

ASSISTANT SECRETARY
A.H
AUG 15 1947
GENERAL MILLIONING
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Honorable John H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.

Dear General Hilldring:

Reference is made to WAR 80781 of 24 June, a State Department (Mr. Hemmendinger, A-H, No. AH 2137) initiated cable requesting SCAP to furnish information pertaining to the time and circumstances surrounding the earmarking and the quantity, identification and present status of gold earmarked for Siamese account by the Japanese Government.

The SCAP has forwarded the requested information which is transmitted herewith.

Sincerely yours,

Ray J. Lane, Lt. Col, GSC 73913
for DANIEL NOCE
Major General, GSC
Chief, Civil Affairs Division

1 Incl.
Report of Gold in Japan
Earmarked for Thailand

Col. Lynch, Executive Officer, C.A.W. notes:
SCAP's letter AG 410.2 (23 July 47) CPC/GP as letter
transmitting attached report.
894.6341/8-1347

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
File
204.6341/8-2047

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : OFD - Mr. Ness
DATE: August 20, 1947

FROM : FN - Mr. McGuire

SUBJECT: French Claim for Gold Earmarked by Japanese Government for Account of
Banque de L'Indo Chine During Period of Collaboration by Vichy France
with Japan.

After most careful deliberation and review of the complete file on the sub-
ject French claim, I feel bound to record my strong opposition to the OFD memoran-
dum of July 17, 1947, written in my absence, and my continued support for the posi-
tion taken by ESP and FE, which is based upon an opinion rendered by me nearly
two years ago. EUR endorsed that position (with minor exceptions) as recently
as May 16, 1947, although I am informed EUR has since accepted the new OFD posi-
tion as a welcome windfall gain for a France sorely beset with financial diffi-
culties.

I fully appreciate the political and economic importance of maintaining the
financial solvency of the present French Government. Furthermore, I am not with-
out sympathy for the Government of Vichy France, although the French people have
clearly indicated their disapproval of the collaborationist activities of
Marshal Petain and other Vichy leaders. However, there are considerations in-
volved in this gold earmarking case which, I feel, far outweigh any legalistic,
sympathetic or short-run financial considerations which can be adduced in support
of the present French claim.

In its memorandum of July 17, 1947, OFD makes no attempt to controvert the
opinion of FE and JK that no earmarkings would have occurred except for the col-
laborationist activity of the Vichy regime of Decoux in Indochina. This collabora-
tion, beginning as early as August, 1940, first cut off the supply of Indochinese
rice to the Chinese Army, and then permitted Japanese forces to occupy Indochina
without opposition, to use Indochina as a base for Japanese operations in the
Malay States, and to obtain from Indochina substantial quantities of rubber and
rice which were of incalculable value to the Japanese in waging war against the
United Nations. As a reward for this collaboration, the Japanese granted to the
Vichy Government of Indochina the status of a theoretically independent member
of the Japanese "Co-Prosperity Sphere," and agreed to pay for goods and services
provided to the Japanese war machine by earmarking gold for the account of the
Vichy Banque de L'Indo-Chine.

Gold earmarking was a reward reserved for those areas of the Far East
(Indochina and Siam) which accepted Japanese offers of membership in the Co-
Prosperity Sphere promptly and without causing any trouble. Those areas which
offered even a modicum of resistance, such as Burma, Malaya, the Netherlands
Indies, the Philippines, and the eventually occupied areas of China, received
either no payment at all or payment in restricted yen for goods and services
taken by the Japs. The yen holdings of these countries will probably have no
value except as measures of relative spoliation for determining proportionate
shares of whatever Japanese assets will remain for reparations after the United
States recovers occupation trade deficit costs.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 1.00)
- 2 -

Perhaps the collaborationist action of Vichy France can be excused, on the ground that it could not have defended Indochina successfully, and merely bowed to the inevitable and avoided useless bloodshed. Perhaps the present government of France is entitled to participate in Japanese reparations on behalf of Indochina on equal terms with other Far Eastern countries. But the suggestion that France should obtain more favorable treatment than will the Far Eastern countries which resisted Japanese aggression is incomprehensible to me. Even the Japanese can scarcely have anticipated that the United States Government would go to such lengths to breathe substance into the once empty promises held out by Japan to the Co-Prosperity Sphere. It is unreasonable to suppose that even the Japanese ever intended that 40% of their gold reserves should be irrevocably pledged to such an infinitesimal portion of their hoped for empire as was represented by Indochina and Siam. Time and again the Vichy French Government requested physical delivery of the earmarked gold, to no avail. But now OFD proposes that the Co-Prosperity Sphere be made a reality two years after the defeat of Japan.

Quite apart from the injustice which would be done to all the participants in the war against Japan, the OFD proposal is fraught with the most serious implications for the future. It seems generally agreed that Russia is the most serious threat to world peace. Russia is also the one country in the world other than the United States which has substantial gold reserves. This would appear to be a most inappropriate time to go on record in support of the "inviolability of international transactions" in gold, regardless of circumstances. If half the European countries now outside the Russian orbit were to sell out to Russia for some billions of dollars worth of gold, and permit their territories to be used as bases for a Russian attack on the rest of Europe, would OFD propose that the traitor countries retain the gold, while the rest of Europe, devastated by war, received only such crumbs of reparations as could be extracted from a defeated Russia, minus her gold reserves? Under such circumstances, resistances will be a singularly unattractive course in any future war.

To me, the appropriate U.S. answer to the French note of May 6, 1947 is perfectly clear. Assuming it is desired to ignore the collaboration angle entirely, and to give France compensation for goods and services obtained by Japan in Indochina on the same basis as is applicable to other countries of the Far East, the French should be told that:

(a) The U.S. Government does not consider that compensation for Indochinese goods and services obtained by Japan should be different in type or in amount from compensation for goods and services taken from other countries. Whatever the Japanese reason for establishing a different mode of compensation, the U.S. Government does not feel bound to implement the discriminatory Japanese action by completing the delivery of earmarked gold, an action which the Japanese themselves refused to take.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 1.00)
- 3 -

(b) However, the U.S. Government will support a French claim for reparations from Japan on the same basis applicable to other reparations claimants. The formula proposed by the United States for determining reparations shares makes appropriate allowances for the value of goods and services obtained by Japan under duress. The U.S. Government will propose that the value of the earmarked gold, plus the value of the yen credits established after gold earmarking was suspended, be accepted as evidence of the value of goods and services taken by Japan from Indochina.

(c) If the FEC refuses to grant France the right to participate in Japanese reparations on behalf of Indochina, the U.S. position re the earmarked gold may be reconsidered, and no final disposition will be made of such gold until the reparations question is settled. However, under no circumstances will the United States, by unilateral action, provide greater compensation for goods taken by Japan from Indochina than is available for goods taken from other countries.

With respect to the five points made in OFD's memorandum of July 17, 1947:

1. I have already signified my conviction that the United States Government cannot afford to endorse the particular earmarking transaction in question, regardless of its general position regarding the inviolability of transactions in monetary gold. Referring to the wording used by OFD, I would say that even if the transactions can be considered genuinely "international" and "legal" (and I think there is considerable question on both counts), this is a case where the words "as far as possible" become significant. In my opinion it is high time that the United States Government made clear that it will not recognize earmarkings growing out of transactions which assist an enemy in taking the lives of American soldiers.

2. The European and Far East gold situations are entirely different. In Europe, the total amount of looted gold recovered was less than the amount looted. Restitution procedures therefore absorbed all the recovered gold, leaving none available for reparations claimants. In the case of Japan, claims for looted gold are negligible as compared with Japanese gold assets, and gold therefore becomes available for either occupation costs or reparations. No one has suggested that the gold earmarked for Vichy France was looted. The question is simply whether a substantial portion of Japan's gold assets should be dissipated in payment of rewards for collaboration, at the expense of non-collaborators. (See (5) below.

3. The German gold referred to was sent by the German Government to its Embassy in Tokyo to finance Embassy operations there, and remained German gold although located in Japan. It has no connection with gold owned by the Japanese Government, and the point therefore appears irrelevant to the question at issue.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 1.00)
- 4 -

(4) It is entirely feasible to distinguish German gold deliveries from Japanese gold earmarkings. The French are asking the U.S. Government to take a positive action to complete delivery of earmarked gold, an action which the Japanese refused to take, and which it is doubtful they ever intended to take. Failure to recover gold delivered by Germany to Roumania (the only case cited by OFD in supporting memoranda) is an act of omission rather than commission. The futility of attempting to recover gold from Russian dominated Roumania, plus the desire of the U.S. Government to avoid pressure on Roumania so long as there was any chance to win that country for the West, may justify failure to take action towards recovery of German gold physically transferred to Roumania. But this negative precedent does not justify the positive action requested by the French.

(5) The last OFD point is simply an error. The U.S. position is that the Japanese trade deficit during the occupation period is a first charge against all Japanese assets, of which Japanese gold is only a part. Transfer of $80,000,000 worth of Japanese assets to Indochina and Siam will reduce the balance available for reparations after deduction of the trade deficit, unless it is assumed that the trade deficit will exceed total Japanese assets by more than $80,000,000. In any event, it is too early to say what the ultimate reparations policy agreed on by FEC will be, and it is not at all certain that the United States will claim all monetary gold in Japan, or insist upon the first charge principle to the exclusion of all reparations.

RECOMMENDATION: I recommend that the OFD memorandum of July 17, 1947 be withdrawn, and that JK's draft note to the French be initialed by OFD, after perhaps some slight revision to make more explicit the U.S. position regarding French participation in Japanese reparations.

NOTE: I have myself suggested at various times the possibility of a compromise under which Indochina and Siam would be given that portion of the gold which was earmarked before December, 1941, when Japan became an actual enemy of the United Nations other than China. However, since Vichy France's collaboration with Japan injured China as early as June 19, 1940, (when Japanese inspectors were authorized to stop rice shipments to China), it would be surprising if China agreed to this compromise, and it may be inappropriate of the U.S. Government to suggest it, particularly if the real reason for compromise is to gain French support for Italian and Austrian participation in the European gold pot, which, to my mind is a quite unrelated matter. Siamese collaboration before December 8, 1941 was of a much less direct nature, but obviously any goods sold to Japan in the months immediately preceding Pearl Harbor were of assistance to subsequent Japanese aggression. But if compromise there must be, let it by all means stop with Pearl Harbor Day.

FN:PFMcGuire/ag

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
→ Saltzman
Need in DE
10/21/47

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

October 13, 1947

U - Mr. Lovett:

Subject: French and Siamese Gold - Japan.

1. Unless it is believed of great importance to deliver this gold to France at this time, I would recommend that it be decided to refer the claim to the FEC.

2. If it should be determined to be of great importance to turn over the gold immediately to France, I suggest that it be done in such a way as still to recognize ultimate FEC competence. This could be done by recognizing that France has a prima facie title, delivering the gold, referring the question to the FEC and requiring France to agree to return an equivalent amount of gold if, upon FEC review, or action of another competent body, a decision adverse to the French claim should be reached.

3. This action would not require comparable action on the Siamese claim. Siam is an enemy state with respect to one or more of the countries which SCAP represents, so that even the existence of prima facie title would not lead to the delivery of the gold to Siam because of the potential claim of FEC countries, enemies to Siam, which might wish to set aside the Japanese-Siamese transaction or seize the gold as war booty. The question of the Siamese gold should be taken up ab initio with the FEC.

C. E. Saltzman

894.6341/10-13 47
3230
