894.70 Japan, Communication And Transportation., February 3, 1937 - May 5, 1938 (File 1019)
ID: 894.70-1019   Pages: 130   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.70-japan-communication-and-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
A.C/No. 2244.
RECORDING DESK
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 3, 1937.
FILE - WHB
SUBJECT: COL UNICATIONS LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
M
B
37 4 A
1)
(C)
CC
A Y DIVISION
Ta4.cc
894.70/1
The Honorable
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
A3123137.
The Secretary of State,
C.L.
Washington.
Sir:
In reference to Diplomatic Serial No. 2732, December
5, l936, requesting a collection of laws, decrees, and
regulations governing the operation and maintenance of
all communications facilities, I have the honor to inform
the Department that the work of translation of such
material has commenced but that it will not be completed
FILED
for some time. It is expected that such work would oc
cupy the full time of one translator for upward of
one month, one difficulty being unfamiliarity with
techincal

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2-
technical terms. The translators of course have other
current duties and no translator is available for this
work exclusively, so that the task will require an in-
definite time.
Meantime I have the honor to transmit herewith
1/
a list of various Japanese laws and regulations on
the subject of commu ications and suggest that if
any of them are not required by the Department or
by the Federal Communications Commission, instruction
to that effect would considerably sim lify the under-
taking. It will be noted that among the laws and
regulations listed are a large number which have only
local interest.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
1. List of laws and regulations with regard to
communications in Japan, in effect January 1,
1937.
870.
CC:r

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 2244 of Fberuary 3, 1937,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
List of principal laws and reculations relating to
telegraph, telephone, television, etc., in force
in Japan as of January 1, 1937.
Telegraph and television
Telegraph law, Law No. 59 of 1900.
Regulations relating to telegraphic messages, Communi-
cations Department Ordinance o. 47 of 1925.
Regulations relating to telegraphic messages of con-
gratulation and condolence, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 52 or
1936.
Mireless telegraph law, Law Ho. 26 of 1915.
Regulations relating to wireless telegraph messages,
Com. Dept. Crd. No. 51 of 1925.
Regulations relatin to wireless direction finding,
Com. Dept. 0rd. No. 61 of 1933.
Regulations relating to wireless telegraph and wireless
telephony for use of Government Offices, Com, Dept.
Ord. No. 117 of 1920.
Ordinance relating to electric com unications in Kwantung
Leased Territory and South Manchuria Railway Zone, Imp. Ord.
No. 197 of 1933.
Regulations relating to application for and permission
of press telegraph, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 48 of 1925.
Regulations relating to press telegrams, Com. Dept.
Ord. No. 82 of 1910.
Regulations relating to installation of telegraph and
telephone wires, Law No. 58 of 1890.
Regulations relating to private telegraph, Com. Dept.
Ord. No. 48 of 1900.
Regulations relating to private wireless telegraph and
wireless telephone, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 60 of 1933.
Regulations relating to the handling of private telegraph,
private wireless telegraph and public telegraph, Com.
Dept. 0rd. No. 53 of 1915.
Regulations

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Regulations relating to television, Com. Dept. Ord.
No. 34 of 1930.
Regulations relating to foreign telegraph, Com. Dept.
Ord. No. 56 of 1933.
Regulations relating to foreign wireless telegraph,
Com. Dept. Crd. No. 57 of 1933.
Regulations relatine to international radio broadcast-
ing, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 51 of 1935.
Regulations relating to Japan-l.anchoukuo telegraph ex-
change, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 35 of 1933.
Regulations relating to Japan-.anchoukuo wireless ex-
change, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 36 of 1933.
Regulations relatine to Christmas and New Year congratu-
latory wireless messages abroad, Com. Dept. Ord. No.
50 of 1933.
Military electric comnunication
.ilitary electric com..unications law, Law o. 39 of 1934.
Regulations relating to the handling of public messages
by military electric comunication system, Imp. Crd.
To. 312 of 1934; also Com. Dept. Ord. Ko. 66 of 1934.
Regulations relatin6 to military telegraph messages,
War Dept. Ord. No. 2 of 1927.
Ordinance relating to the use of private telegraph and
telephone as well as private wireless telegraph and
telephone for military purpose, Com. Dept. Ord.  o. 57
of 1934.
Ordinance relating to wireless telegraph and/or wireless
telephone communications of foreign warships in Japanese
territorial waters, Imp. Ord. No. 226 of 1927.
Telephone
Telephone regulations, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 9 of 1919.
Regulations relating to telephone communications, Com.
Dept. Crd. No. 38 of 1914.
Regulations relating to special telephone installation,
Com. Dept. Ord. No. 43 of 1912.
Regulations relating to telephone communication in the
Dependencies, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 51 of 1934.
Regulations

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Regulations relating to special telephones for press,
Com. Dept. Ord. No. 38 of 1907.
Regulations relating to special telephone communica-
tion for mining, Com. Dept. 0rd. No. 84 of 1905.
Regulations relating to special telephone communica-
tions for the use of exchanges, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 43
of 1923.
Regulations relating to speedy installation of telephones,
Com. Dept. Ord. No. 50 of 1923.
Regulations relating to special telephone installation,
Com. Dept. 0rd. No. 29 of 1925.
Regulations relating to temporary installation of tele-
phones, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 16 of 1936.
Regulations relating to telephone exchange exclusively
within city limits, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 14 of 1912.
Regulations relating to private wireless telephone for
broadcasting, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 98 of 1923.
Ordinance relating to telephone message exchange between
land and vessels in harbor, etc., Com. Dept. Ord. No. 13
of 1926.
Regulations relating to wireless telephone comnunications
on ships, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 26 of 1936.
International telephone
Regulations relating to telephone communications between
Japan and Manchoukuo, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 55 of 1934.
Time of handling the aforementioned telephone communica-
tions and charge therefor, Com. Dept. Motification No.
1905 of 1934.
Regulations relating to international telephone communi-
cations, Com. Dept. Ord. No. 61 of 1934.
Telephone exchange offices and time of handling inter-
national telephone communications and charge therefor,
Com. Dept. Notification No. 2353 of 1934.
Telephone exchange offices and time of handling inter-
national telephone communications on ships and charge
therefor, Com. Dept. Notification No. 2871 of 1936.
Regulations relating to international telephone messages
for Christmas and New Year congratulations, Com. Dept.
Ord. No. 48 of 1935.
Places (names thereof) handling the aforementioned in-
ternational telephone messages and charge therefor, Com.
Dept. Notification No. 3201 of 1935.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.92)
March 11 1937
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission
and enoloses for the attention of the law department of
the Commission a copy of despatch No. 2244 of February 3,
894.70/1
1937, received from the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo,
eoncerning communication laws and regulations in Japan.
The Seoretary of State will appreclate it if the
Chairman of the Federal Communications Commlssion will
be good enough to indioate what reply should be made to
the inquiry contained in the Ambassador's despatch
under reference.
Enclosure:
From Embassy, No. 2244,
February 3, 1937,
with onelosure.
A true r
211
the aed
F/F
AN
FE.
nal.
B
-m.m.1d
Cuvo
TD:FOdeW:IL:S8
3/6-8

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.84)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 19.1957
Denaey:
22.
Tokyo's 2244 cou may
transtatcaues Sen
srevioushy by The En massy
NTT.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.81)
DERARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ScR:
MHTONS
ihai
It is nlikel
Caus
Theve
Soue
beem
already
Kare
lent 7%
Touslated aus
tecerved fame sither
laued it
Aouscea.
havea
2asaile
tearch mae
Lepis
fils

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.91)
ADDREBS ALL COMMUNICATIO
TO THE SECRETARY
FÉDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WN
WASHINGTON. D. C.
ALKER
AN S. CABE
257 NAR 11 11 9
Yereh 10, 1227.
IN STEWART
Divi:e
PAASTALRS
The Honor: ble,
The Secret: ry of St:te.
My dear Mr. Secret:ry:
Receipt is ac now ledged of your let' er of M reh 1,
1937, File No. TD 84.70/1, trinmit: ing : desp tch Irom the
094.70/2
American Embassy at Tokyo concerning communic tin Li ws and
regulations in Jεpan.
The atteched list of principel laws will Le c: reruily
reviewed, and you will be :dvised oromptly of eny l: ws or regula-
tions ineluded therein vhich are not re uired by the Co mission.
Your cooperetion in forwer ing tais iniorma tin is
greatly appreciated.
Respectfully,
Anning S. Prall,
Chairman.
TREALY DWISION
MAR 16 1937
DEPARTMENI OFAT
C
CC
F
i'

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
April 191957
.1241
The Homorable
Joseph C. Grew,
89
American Ambassador,
94.70/
Tokyo.
Sir:
2
The Department refers to your despatch No. 2244 of
February 3, l937, concerning communications laws and regu-
lations in force in Japan, a copy of which was trans-
mitted to the Federal Communications Commieslon, and ad-
vises you that a reply has been received from the Commis-
sion stating that the list of principal laws attached to
your despatch will be carefully reviawed and that the
Commission will advise this Department promptly of any
laws or regulations included tnerein which are not re-
quired by the Commission.
with regard to your statement that work on the trans-
lation of the laws enumerated in the list accompanying
your despatoh under acknowlodgment has been started, it
is presumed that you are aware that the Embassy has in the
past transmitted translations of Japanese commamications
Laws. Yeur attention is especially invited to the Embassy's
despatchse Be. 315 ef October 20, 1926; No. 442 of February 22.
o B0. 806 of July 29, 1927; No. 002 of August 4, 1007
 846 02Apr1125, 1928; N0. 1209 of June 19,1029nd
No. 1362 of December 9, 1929.. Moreover, the Japamememmry
7
Embassy

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.91)
Rbesay at this capital tramsmitted with its mote of
Desember 10, 1925, a translation of the Ship Wireless
Telegraph Imstmlation Law of March 28, 1925.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Wilbur Jo Carr
the si origi-
APB 14 1937.PM
ees.ve/s
m
FE
mmt
s/ms

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2925.
Tokyo, : ey 5, 1938
SUBJ ECT:
C(
1.T07ce
B
Y Dryisine to heavy
894
J938
3
0
ded
12
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1)
Fl
LLI
E
C
いい
938 JUN
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
..ashington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to Diplomatic serial
no. 2732, December 5, 1936, to my despatch no. 2244
of February 3, 1937, and to the Department's in-
F/A
struction no. 1240 of April 19, 1937, regarding the
submission of laws, decrees, and regulations govern-
ing the operation and maintenance of all communication
FILED
facilities in Japan, the latter stating that the
Federal Communications Commission would advise the
Department of any laws or regulations not desired.
As no further instruction has been received,
there are transmitted herewith translations by the
Embassy
11

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
1,2/
Embassy of the Telegraph Law, the Wireless Telegraph
3/
Law, Regulations Relating to roreign Telegrams,
Regulations Relatin& to Wireless Telegraph Messages,
5/
Regulations elatin to Forein ireless Telegrarh,
6/
Repulstions xelatin to intorn-tional aadic elerrams,
7/
and the rdinance kel tin" to ireless telerraph and/or
Wireless Telephone Comunications of roreign arships
in Japanese Territorial aters.
accordin to the recores of the ribussy, the
Wireless Telegrarn Law was originally submitted in an
unnumbered despatch of July 1, 1915; the Regulations
Relatine to Wireless Telegraph messaees, in despatch
no. 594 of July 29, 1927; and the Crdinance Relating
to Communications of Forein Jarships in Japanese
Territorial aters, in despatch no. 602 of .ugust 4,
1927. The other translations are being submitted for
the first time.
It is believed that the above list constitutes
the extent of communications laws desired by the Federal
Communications Commission, those not translated being
purely for local application, and the mbassy, unless
otherwise instructed, will assume that viplomatic
Serial No. 2732 of December 5, 1936 has been answered.
Respectfully yours,
7
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
Translations as follows:
1. The Telegraph Law. Law No. 59, March 24, 1900;
Revised by Law No. 19, March 1926.
2.
Wireless Telegraph Law. Law No. 26, June 19, 1915.
Revised by Law No. 45, April 1929.
3.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
3. Regulations Relating to Foreign Telegrams.
Ordinance No. 56 of the Ministry of Communications
issued on December 29, 1933.
Revised in 1935,
1936, and in Apri1 1937.
4.
Regulations Relatin& to Vireless Telegraph Messages.
Ordinance No. 51 of the  inistry of Communications
aurust 22, 1925. Revised Decerber 1928.
5.
Rerulations el tin to rein Mireless Pele raph.
Ministry of Communications  rdinance o. 517,
promulcated vecember 2, 1932; revised by inistry
Ordinance No. 52 of Dece ber 19:5 and  inistry
Crdinance o. 12 of urch 1937.
6.
Reguletions xelati to international Radio Telerrams.
Crdinance o. 51 of tne inistry r Cornunications
issued on ece ber 29, 1935.
7.
Ordinance telatin to ireless Tele raph and/or
Wireless elenhone Jomnunications of Forei n arships
in Japanese Territorial Wuters.
Imperial rdinance o. 226.
870.
FAS:mg

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.83)
2925 May 5,1938,
1:
()
ithi
vi  c), or b
viim e) te  ter ety (ore

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
village) where there is no fecility of telegraph or
telophone connection and where locel condition does not
suit the installation of & rivate tele raph line mentioned
in (4).
tiole 3: The comnetent : inister of tate may, accorain to what is
determined by order, cause the tele raph or telephone erected
in accordance with the proviions of the foregoin article
to be used for the tre's ission or rivate messeses of the
general public or of necesser: military co munications. In
such case, the competent  inister mey despatch tele raph
or telephone offici:ls or clerks to the spot for hanaling
such messeces when he (the inister) deens it necessar: to do
so.
Artiole 4: The competent inister may, When he (the inister) deems
it necessary to do so for public safety, sus end or restrict
communications b: tele re h or tele hone definin the limits
of the district for so doin .
tiole 5: When any coumunication y tele reph or tele hone is
caloulated as harmful to putlic safet or dero atory to
public morals the tele raplh or tele hone office gesigneted
by the competent inister nay take ste s to step such
communication.
Article 6: Tele reph or telenhone orkmen (viremen) or tele rem
carriers or carrieges mey, in case they canot ass throu h
streets or roads on account of accidents or interruptions
while in execution of their duties, pass thrcuh residential
grounds or farms or other places which are not walted or
enclosed with fences, etc. In such case, the overnment
shall indemnify the damage caused thereby at the reguest of
the party or parties who suffered the damage.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
tiele 7: In case telegraph or telephone workmen (wiremen) or
tologram carriers or carriages including boats etc.
encounter with accidents while dischergin their duties,
any person who has been asked to render assistance in
their resoue cannot refuse such re uest without e justi-
fiable reason. In such case as mentioned before the
Government shall mele an ade uate reward to the person who
rendered such assistence, vhen re uested by the latter to
do so.
Article 8:
: No trensit fare can be cher ed on telegrenh or telephone
workmen, telegrem carriers, carri es or horse carts or
boats carryin tele rms ror their passage throu h ferries
or canals or roeds or orid es or similar other laces
in dischergin their cuties.
he vorimen end tele rem
carriers nentioned in the fore oin ara rt h can re uest
the fitting out of a ferry boat unytine.
Article 9:
The overnment mey make use of pert of e railroad land
or of a railroad stetion builain in connection with telegraph
or telephone, end in case of necessit: it may order a building
or buildings to be constructed there or order the recon-
struction of a builain or buildin s. In the aforementioned
case the overnment sh1l pay the rental for the land or
buildings used for the pur ose or bear the cost of
construction or reconstruction of such vuiicin s, when
requested to ào so.
Article l0: In the case of tele raph or telephone wires heving been
laid by the G vernment within the limits of a railroad land
no rental shall be paid therefor.
. Artiole ll: Articles for the exclusive use of telegreph or
telophone communication or articles actually being used in

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
tolegraph or telephone communication cannot be attaohed
or seized. llo public imposts shall be levied on such
artioles as mentioned in the foregoing clause.
Article l2: Any act done b. a person without legal capacity (in-
competent person) cccinst = tele reph or telephone office
in connection with the hanclin of telegraph or telephone
messares shall be considered as en act done by a erson
with leral canacity (e com:etent person).
Article 13: Excentin the csses seciricu ly determined by order
or ordinance ail tele raas sall be delivered at their
addresses.
Article 14: The transission una deliver of tele rams may be
stopped at the re uest of their senders, this bein, however,
linited to the ceses srecifically deter ined vy order or
ordinance.
Article 15: Juch telecrams as connot be delivered at their
addresses or handed to tihe ir aadressces sh ll be held in
custody at tele reoh offices. In cese no cleimant
appears within thirty aays tron the uu when they were
received at the tele raph ofices concerned such tele rams
shall be abandoned.
article 16: Telecraph ofrices wey esk the sonters of tele rems to
explain the meening of code woras or ci hers used in
their messaces, when they dee. it necesser. to ao so. In
case the senders refuse to ive an ex len tion t.ereof the
telegraph offices concerned may refuse the handling of
such messages.
Article 17: Telegraph or tele hone fees and necessary limitations
relating to the handling of co munications b telegraph or
telephone shall be determined by order or ordinance separately
Artiole 18: Telegraph or telephone fees which hed been paid
proviously or overpaid shall not be returned excepting
ned by order or ordinanc

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.93)
-5-
fole 19: In case the tele reph fee to be prepaid by the
sender of a telegranh message is insufficient twice
0
the amount of the shorta e shall be collected from the
sender.
Artiole 20: The obli etions reletin to the payment of telegraph
of telephone fee shll becce oxtinct in case no
notirication cullin tteation to the pament thereof
is not received vithin a rcriod of six onths from
the date Vhen the ayment fails due.
Article 21: Tele reph or tele hone fees in arrears slail be
collected by the tele rsoh or tele hone offices coocerned
accordin to the exer. le o the dispositicn or the
failure of paynent of n tiunei taxes in urreurs. iun regard
to telegraph or tele hone fees in crrer rererred to in
the foregoin clcuse te teie rt i or tele hone ofrices
shall have the pi t ot prieviby lext to netlonal taxes.
Article 22: Telecreph or tele hone co unicaticns us to the
matters relatin to tele  , tele one, virels
telecreph, wivvloss telelon,  t, es tal oney order,
post ofrice s vis e es eteosole ienl ye srts ay be
handled free of cmrre see p in to it is deturmined
by oraer or ordin.c..
Article 2:xcentin the cnses  cirie ly etar ined uy oraer
or ordinance, cil fees veluti: to tole re h or telephone
shall be paid in po to e t.
Article 24: The overnment is not hela res onsible for comoensation
for any damages in conection vith the handlin of
telecraph or tele hone messages.
Artiole 25: The right of claim relatin to the coripensation for
damages or reward under the previsions of this cv

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.87)
-6-
shall become extinct in ccse such ri ht is not
exercised, for a period of t ree pont s from the date
when the fect justiryin the cluia occurred, against
the tele reph or tele hose orfices desi nated by the
competent .inister.
Article 26:  person o s n oction to c decision or
deterninction of  tele   or a telenlone office as to
the corpensrtion for da ce ute
a civil actios eit suci. decisieu or dete in tion
within a  ericd or tre
 rthe ereceived
the notificstion .
Article 7ershol or
tele hone or  o w. oou ile  ily-i   uli d tole e h
or tele hone  il b nt teud to t e  ocedin
¥1.000.
article z7-b: In ctse the copetont au lulstt tive orlice es ordered
the vithdraval or vivstely nstulle tele p  or t lophone
e uip lents in ccoodancu ith is duter Lnot by couer
or ordi ce   roon ho dous not il. th siu osder
of the co petent orrie si il be stntnccd to Pine not
excvedi vooo. he foree in ruvi.lon  lso  li  to the
sese of o erson o hes used ti rivately i lled tule-
eraph or tozephone e vi mate e d beer evdered to be
removed.
Article ss:  person ro es  d ot v veyle use rivutely instelled
telegreph or tele hone e ui ments or o nes used tele reph
or telephone privetely instelled by ot.er yeople snall be
sentenced to a fine not exceedia ¥500.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.92)
-7-
A person who has mede other people communicate
with & third party by means of privetely installed
tele raph or tele hone sh: il be seutenced to a rine
not exceedin ¥loc.
Article 28-b: In the e ses tioneu in rticle 27, -are raph
of rticle f-t ma   in 1 or the reccuin rticle,
the money or rtiele e ised  t feuer, if uny,
sheil be coifiscut. n tih c se or sucn money or
article hev' been  lrenay cohsu.d or iven wey to
other oeople en tount or oney e ulvalent to the
ori inl sun or the rice or ti rticls rec ived shell
te Porfei..
article 29:  person o, in t s  of rtiei , vofuse
without a htlrlele tor the e 
tele rey or tele oe, or  crs , o, i the c se
of rticle , refuce itaout  u tifieb rueson to
offer tne use or u i  i d or ri st: tion
buil in or ho does nor follow th der for the
constretion or rue stricticn of i rtll.ey station
buildin shall be sentenced to  li e not exceedin
¥1,000.
article 3o: a person vho, in th cuse of rticle 3, objects to
or refuses, ithout  ju tifiable reeson, ne asse e
mentioned in articje 6, or no refuscs, without a
justifiable reason, to rencer as istance entioned in
Article 7, or a person who, in the cese of rticle 8,
extorts passage fare or fee or refuse, without & justifi-
able reason, to fit out a ferry boat shall be sentenced
to a fine not exceeding ¥30.
Article 3l: A person who breaks the secrecy of a correspondence
or communication handled by a telegraph or telephone
office shall be sentenced to penal servitude not longer

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
than one year or a fine not exoeedin ¥200.
In case a person concerned with tele raph or telephone
communication business corits an act mentioned in the
foregoint paragraph he srall be sentenced to penal
servitude not lon er than 2 ears or a fine not exceedin
¥500.
The orfenses entioueu in this Article shsll be consid-
ered when the co laint hes been louged.
Article 32: A person who has evaded unlawfully the peyment of
fees or cherres rel ti. to tele raph or tele hone or who
has mace other vecpie ovade such fees or charges shall be
sentenced to a 1i.e not cxceedin" v2o0. In cuse a person
concerned with tele ru n or tele hone co munication
businese coamits such an act as entioned in the fore oing
paragraph he shell be sentenced to penal servituue not
longer than one :car or a fi e not exceedin ¥500.
Article 33: A person who, with  view to benefitin imself
or other people or with an object to  rengin other persons,
has sent a felse co municetion or correspondence by
tele raph or telephone shall be seutenced to penal servitude
not longer then five : ears or a fine not exceeding looo.
In case the felse cormunication or correspondence
referred to in the foregoin aragreph is & telegrapl
message necessary to e telegrapnic money order the person
who has sent it shall be sentenced to penal servitude not
longer than seven years.
Article 34: (Repealed)
Article 35: A person who, without a justifiable reason, has opened,
or broken, or concealed, or thrown away, or handed to
one who is not aue receiver, a telegraph message in the
course of handling shall be sentenced to penal servitude

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
not longer than three years or a fine not exceeding
500. Such a case as coming within the purview of
Artiole 258 of the Criminal Law shall, however, be
dealt with accordin to the provisions of that law.
Article 36: In case a person concerned with telegraph or telephone
communication business fails to properly handle a telegraph
or telephone message or delays its handling without a
justifiable reason he snall be sentenced to penal servitude
not longer then one year or a fine not exceeding ¥200.
Article 37: A person who has obstructed cor..unication by tele-
grah or telephone or who has mede such an act as will
obstruct such communication shell be sentenced to penal
servitude not lon er then seven years or a fine not
exceedin¥500.
Article 38: A person who has obstructed the leyin or repairing
of telegraph or telephone wires or who has obstructed
the inspection or surveyin of tele raph or telephone
lines shell be sentenced to penel servitude not longer than
three :ears or a fine not exceedin ¥300.
Article 39: A person who has hun or thown some objects on telegraph
or telephone wires or lines or their supports, or who
has tethered animals or moored boats to then or otherwise
damaged them shall be sentenced to a fine not exceeding
10. This provision also applies to a person who has
destroyed or äameged the surveying signals of telegraph
or telephone lines.
Artiole 40: A person who has moored vessels or engaged in fishing
or sea-weed gathering or sand-digging within the limits
of submarine telegraph or submerine telephone line zone
designated by the competent administrative office, or who
has moored vessels to, or damaged or destroyed or thrown
away, the marks, buoys, etc. of submarine telegraph or

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
submarine telephone lines shall be sentenced to a
fine not exceeding ¥1,c00.
The forogoing provision also applies to a person who
has committed the offenses mentioned in the foregoing
paragraph or who has made navigation within a certain
distance defined by the competent administrative office
from the buoys indicatin the position of submerine
telegranh or suomarine telenhone lines to be laid or
repaired or from the vessel or vesse_s engaged in the
laying or repairin of suvmeri e tele rach or submarine
telephone lines.
Article 41: The offense of attempting the crimes mentioned in
article 27, 1ara raph x of rticle 27-b, rticle 28,
Articles 31 to 33, rticle 5, rt cle 7, article 8
and the recedin rticle shail be punished.
Article 42: (Repealed)
Artiole 43: As to the privately instailed telegraph or telephones
which are actuelly used for public cc munications or
military communications in accordance ith the orovisions
of Paragraph 1 of article 3, those provizions of this
Law releting to telegraph or teleplhone installed by the
Government, exclusive of those of rticle 9, shell apply
mutatis mutenais.
Article 44: The provisions of this  aw are applicable mutatis
mutandis, accordin to wlnt is determined by order or
ordinence, to any kinds of communication signals other
than tele raph or telephone.
Article 45: In respect of matters relating to telegreph between this
Empire and foreign countries, the cases expressly provided
for in separate laws or ordinances or treaties or special
agreements such provisions shall be followed.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
Additional Rules
iele 46: This Ordinance takes effect from Cctober 1, 1900.
The former Telegraph egulations are abolished.
Artiole 47: Those who obtained ermits on the installation
of private telegraph or telephones unaer the former
Telegraph .egalations, prior to the enforcement of this
Lew, ere re uired to make si iler a plications anew in
accordance with Whet is determined by order or crdinance.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclost
No2926of kay 5,1938 trom the
Ebassy at Tokyo.
anelation
WIRELESS TELEGRAPH LAW.
(Law 0. 26, June 19, 1915.)
rticle 1.
All wireless telegraph and telephone stetions shall be
under the control of the overnments.
Article 2.
The wireless tele raph or teleplhone stations mentioned
below may be privately established vith thc license cranted
by the competent  inister in uccurdunce with vat is provided
in an ordinance:
(1)
Stations to be established on po rd ships, vith
the object of providin for the safety of nevi ation;
(2)
Stations to be estsblished on boerd hips used
for e s ecific enterorise telo in to the seme
person, betveen hich co munication is to be con-
ducted for the urrose of cuch enterprise;
(3)
Stations to be est bliched on board sips or on
land disconnected fr a the uhlic tele r h,
telephone, irele s tele pe r or wireless tele-
phone services cor the nelusive use of the
liconsees and for the sendin and recsivin of
teleprams to and fron telepra h cffices;
(4)
Stations to be established on boerd  ips or on
land for use in c nunication of a s ecific en-
terprise belon in to the sane person between
land un i, o tetween plades on lana which
are not cennected by the puulic tele reph, tole-
phone, wireless telegra h or vireless tele hon.
services, but to whien the recedin eregreph
is not applicable;
(5)
Stations to be established for the exclusive use
in the ex erinents in connection ith  ireless
telegraphy or telephony;
(6)
tations other than those montioned in the re-
cedin, paragrephs, hich the competent : inister
deems necessery to be est: blished.
rticle
The restrictions reletir, to the paratuses, their
installations and operations in a private wireless tele rah
or telephone station, and the ulifications and regul:r
number of persons who ere en aged in the services of  private
wireless telegraph or telephone stetion sh ll conforr. to vhat
is provided in an ordinance. (..evised by ew o. 45,  ril l929.)
Article 4.
A private wireless telecrenh or telephone station cen
not be used for eny purnose other than that for which it is
established. Frovided that it shell not prevent itself from
being used only for communications concerning aistress at sea,
moteorological messages, time signals and others which the
competent Minister deems necessary for the benefit of the public.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.70)
.1
11
tion
(d
In eseie
telhoneotio
1
is ucd in con
ttiosiven
ore unee
the licnse or isreo o tle oe ot tion
or or er the us on  se r

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.73)
P loVe 1S
In the
03
:CS
In c
a wirorens
aecorinot
shlti
April 1989.)
sor the ure or co o in ir s tele ruh or
tele hone station to s te r t ui e  sention
service, thevera  usei  h, na, ir
necessery, orcer to ee ro i i 
Tu the eor in treph

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
a reasonable rent and an actual expense of the special provision
or equipment shall be paid by the government on application.
Article 15.
Communications by wireless telegraph or telephone open
to the public, which are related to the service effairs of
wireless tele raphs, wireless telephones, telegraphs, telephones,
mails, postal money orders or postal savin s, or to istress
at sea, safety of navigation, time signels or meteorolo ical
reports, may be sent free of cher e acc rdin to whet is provided
in an ordinance. (evised by -aw .o. 43, nril 1929.)
article 16.
Any person who has established a wireiess tele reph or
telephone station wittout license or hus made use of a
wireless telegraph or telephone station established without
license, or any person who has made use of a rivate vireless
teleraph or telephone stetion after tue cancellation of the
license, shall be liable to penel servitude for & term not exeeed-
ing one or to a fine not exceedin one thou and Yen.
In the case referred in the precedin are ra h, aly money
or article, if ac uired  l cin a wireless tele raph or
telephone station et the dis osal of any other purson, sn ll be
confiscated, and if the oncy or erticl as iready been
consumed or transferred or the v iue of the article shail te
collected.
article 17.
any person who hes used s vrivete  irelcss teie ra h or
telephone stetion for uny ur ose other ti n t:t for ..ich the
stetion is esteblisned, shall b licble to a i e not eceedin
one thousana Yen.
In the case referred to in the reccdin re ra n, any
money or article, i! ac uired b lacin a ireloss tele raph or
telephone station at the disoosal of any other erson, shsll be
confiscated, and if the one or article us  iread: veen consumed
or transferred, the sum of money e uivalent to titt consuned o
transferred or the value of the article shall ve collectea.
any person who hes caused & rivate vireless tele rtpn or
telephone station to send is essage sil b liable to a fine
not exceeding one hunared  en.
article 18.
amy person who has acted contrer: to the rovisions or Article
5, or has not observed the order  iven in accordance ith this
law to restrict or susnend the use, to chen e the e uipmont,
to disjoin the a paratus and acce sory or to remove the apparatus
and structure of e wireless tele re h or tele hone station, shall
be liable to a fine not exceedin one thousand Yen. In case any
person engaged in the service of a wireless telegraph or
telephone station has made use of the station in contravention of
the order for restriction or suspension of the use of she station
the same shall elso be applicable to such a person.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.94)
-5-
Article 19.
Any person who hes refused, without ju:t cause, to
yield the use of a wireless telegraph or telephone station
in the case referred to in rticle 6, who has refused to
yield the use of a ship or failed tc male a s ecial provision
or equipment, without just cause, in the case referred to in
Article l=, shtll be licble to & fine not exceedin one
thousand Yen.
article o.
any person ho hns violuteu the secret correspondence of
a wireless teie re h or tele len lje is under treatnent
at a telegraph or tule hole rfice shail to lioble to penal
servitude ror & term not exceedin one yeur or to a line
not exceedin two hunureo :n.
In case any person c a ed in the service of a vipeless
telegranh or tele hot e'tion i sivul cd the secret of the
correspondence re ored to in tm rsccdin re ra h, he shell
be liable to penal surv tude or  tor. not e tccedin five
hundred Yon.
The offense puntioe  tiis rtiel. s cil be consicered.
when the cenoleint hs sen loc .
rticl bi.
any person vho s uivu ed t scret or currespondence
of wireless tele re h os tele none, hiel cale to his knovledge
through wireless tele re h or tele hone, tut does not fall
under the reccdin artiel, stil be licble to penel servitude
for a term not cxceedin on . car or to a fine not enceedin.
two hunared Yen.
The offense mentioned in ths preeediregra h shall
be considered, vhen the complaint hes been lou. ed. (aded
by Law 0. 45, Apr11 1929.)
article zl.
any person who has ille elly ev: ded  charage reletin to
the wireless tele rapn or tele hone, or caused uny other
person to evade it, shell be lieble to e fine not exceedin..
two hunared Ten.
In case any person cnet ed in the service of a wireless
tele raph or tele hone station lts performed the sct referred
to in the precedin aracra h, he sieil be liable to penal
servitude for e tern not exceedin one year or to a fine not
exceeding five hunared Yen.
Article z2.
any person who has dis atched  felse messa e by
wireless tele raph or telenhone with the ooject of civing
damage to any other person, shall be liable to penal servitude
for a term not exceedin two 'ears or to a fine not exceeding
five hundred Yen. Any person who has dispatched a false
message by wireless telegraph or telephone with the objeot
of doing injury to the public interests, shall be liable to
penal servitude for a term not exceeding five years or to a
rine not exceeding one thousand Yen.
Any person who has dispatched communicetion concerning
distress at sea by wireless telegraph or telephone, nottith-

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
standing that there was no fact of distress at sea, shall
be liable to penal servitude for e term not shorter than
three months and not exceedin ten years.
In case any person en aged in the service of a wireless
teleeraph or telephone station hes performed the act
referred to in the first paragraph hereof, ne shall be
liable to penal servitude for & term not exceedin/ five
years or to a fine not exceeding one thousand Yen; in case
he has performed the act referred to in the seccnd paragraph
hereof, he shall be liable to penel servitude for a term not
exoeeding ten years; in case he has performed tne act referred
to in the third  ararre h hereof, he savll be liatle to penal
servitude for a term not shorter than one ear.
article 2 bis.
Any person who has dispatched a message y ireless
telerraph or telephone, hich is disturbent to the
public peace or offensive ugeinst the public morals, shall
be liable to penal servitude for a term not exceedin two
years or to a fine not exceedin five hunered Yen.
In case any person en a ed in the service of s :ireless
telegraph or tele hone station as erformed the ect referred
in the precedin sragraph, ne shell be liable to penal
servitude for ε tern not exceedin five years or to a fine
not exceedin one thousand Yen. (added by w . 45, April
1929.)
Article 23.
In case any person en  aged in the service of a wireless
telegraph station has, vithout just cause, opened, damaged,
concealed or thrown away a wireless tele ren vhich is under
treatment at e telegraph office or has, ithout just cause,
delivered it to any person other than the addressee, shcll
be liable to penal servitude for s term not exceeding three
years or to a fine not exceeding five hundred Yen. Provided
that in case of coming within purview of rticle 258 or 259
of the Criminal aw, the Criminal aw shell anply.
article 24.
In case any person enfaged in the service of e wireless
telerraph or telenhone station hss, without just ceuse,
not dealt with public conmunications or co:munications necess-
ary for military purposes, or hes caused them to be delayed,
he shell be liable to penal servitude not exceeding one year
or to a fine not exceedin two hunured Yen.
In case any person engaged in the service of a wireless
telegraph or telephone station has, without just cause,
not dealt with communications concernin distress at see
referred to in the provisions of Article 1l or l2 hereof
or caused them to be delayed, he shall be liable to penal
servitude for a term not shorter than one year.
Any person who has interfered with the treatment of
communications concerning distress at sea, shall also be
liable to the same punishment as in the preceding paragraph.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
Article 25.
Any person who has obstructed or performed an act
whioh may lead to obstruct public communications or communications
necessary for military purposes sent by a wireless telegraph
or telephone station, shall be lieble to penal servitude
for a term not exceedin seven years or to a fine not exceeding
five hundred Yen.
Article 26.
The attempted offenses ageinst rticles 16 to 25 hereof
shall be punishable. (-evised by aw 0. 45, April 1929.)
Article 27.
Any person who hes refused, interfered with or evaded
a competent official in the performance of his duties
under this law, or lhas given no answers to a competent
ofricial's questions or made false statements on the occasion
of the inspection referred to in .rticle 1s bis, shall be
liable to a fine or minor-fine not exceedin one hunired Yen.
(Revised by ew .0. 45, Anril 1929.)
Article 26.
The provisions of the Tele raoh aw, articles 4, 11
to 21, 23, 24 and 45 she11 aoply nutat1s mutandis to
wireless telerranh or telephone stations used for puulic
communications or comunicetions necessery for military purposes.
(Revised by Lew c. 5, anri1 1929.)
Article 28 bis.
The provi ions of his law snoil anply mutatis mutandis
in conformity to whet is  roviaed in an ordinance to the
installations vhich are ot vireless tele raph or telephone
stations, out can send or receive messeges and si nals, using
high frequency current. (Aaded by o. 5, ril 1929.)
Article 26 ter.
If the competent  inister deems it necessary in order to
prevent obstructions to public communicetions or cormunications
necessary for military pur poses sent by a wireless telegraph
or telaphone station, he may order to change equipments or to make
speciel equipments to the licensee of the installation, which
generates high frecuency current, but is not a wireless telegranh
station, a wireless telephone station or an installation used for
messages or signals referred to in the precedin article. In
this case the government shall compensate, eccordin to what
is provided in an ordinance, the exnense recuired in connection
with the change of the equipments or with the makin of the
speciel equipments.
Any person who is dissatisfied with the decision mede in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph
with regard to the compensation, may institute a civil suit
within three months countin from the date on which the notice
of the decision is received. (Added by 1aw 0. 45, April l929.)

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.95)
-8-
artiole 29.
This law shell apply mutatis mutandis to wireless
tolegraph or telephone stations established on aircrafts,
(Added by Law o. 62, pri1 1921.)
rticie o.
In regard to the application of this law, aircrafts
shall be considered as ships. (auded by law o. 6, pril
1921.)
supplementary le ulation.
The date on which this law comes into force shell be
fixed by the Impericl rdinnce.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.
to despatch
No. 2925
of
y 5, 1938,
from the Emhassy at Tokyo.
Regulations Relating to Foreign Telegrams
Ordinance No. 56 of the Ministry of Communications
issued on December 29, 1933.
Revised in 1935, 1936, and in April 1937.
Chapter 1.
General Rules.
Article 1.
The term "foreign telegrams" signifies
telegraphic messages handled under the International ireless
Telegraph Convention and the Regulations Relatin to Mireless
Communication attached tereto (to be known hereinafter as the
International Telegraph Regulations), or any special international
communication convention.
Article 2. For ign telegrams shall be handled in accordance
with the present ordinance, as well as in accordance with the
International ireless Telegraph Convention and the International
Telegraph Regulations.
Article 3. Regulations and decisions announced voluntarily
by the appropriate authorities of foreign countries, and restric-
tions relating to the treatment of foreign telegrams, in accord-
ance with the Internetional Electric Conmunication Treaty and the
International Telegraph Regulations shall be publicly proclaimed
when it is deemed necessary to do so.
Chapter 2.
Method of Writing Telegrams.
Article 4. Letters to be used in foreign telegrams shall
be limited to Roman letters and figures shall be limited to
either Arabic figures or Roman figures.
Article 5. The Japanese language shall be designated as
the language which may be used as an ordinary language in
foreign telegrams.
Article 6. Private telegrams may be transmitted and
received, whether wholly or partially in cipher.
Article 7.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Article 7. Confirmation of a signature as provided
in paragraph 2 of Article 17 of the International Telegraph
Regulations shall not be transmitted.
Chapter 3.
Charges for Telegrams.
Article 8. Regarding the charges for foreign telegrams,
the amount in gold francs which constitutes the basis of the
charges shall be publicly proclaimed except as otherwise
specially provided for.
Article 9. The charges for foreign telegrams shall,
except as otherwise specially provided for, be determined by
changing the amount in gold francs into a corresponding amount
in Japanese money in accordance with the method stipulated in
paragraph 2 mentioned below.
Cne year shall be divided into four sections and every
three months beginning fron January 1, April 1, July 1, and
October 1, shall be regarded as one period. The Japanese money
corresponding to one gold franc to be used for each period shall
be fixed at 327/1,000 (fractions below one sen are not counted)
of an average amount of the Japanese money corresponding to
one dollar of the United States during the preceding period
(during the first two months and 15 days in the early part of the
final third month).
The amount of the Japanese money corresponding to one gold
franc calculated in accordance with the foregoing paragraph shall
be specially publicly proclaimed.
Article lo. The charges for foreign telegrams comprising
telegrams inquiring about original telegrams through telegraph
offices, faire-suivre telegrams, and telegrams for re-transmission
which shall be exchanged within the sphere of Japanese
telegraph offices ( excluding Japanese telegraph
offices

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
offices in Kwantung Province and the South Manchuria Railway
zone as well as Shanghai and Chefoo) in accordance with a
request of an addresser or addressee shall be fixed at six sen
per word.
Article ll. The charges for foreign telegrams handled
outside official hours shall be fixed at 30 sen per word.
Article 12. In the case of a foreign telegram which a
sender has canceled before transmission, the mount to be
deducted under the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 50
of the International Telegraph Regulations shall be five sen.
Article 13. The charges for special quick delivery of
foreign telegrams arriving in Japan shall, except otherwise
specially publicly proclaimed, be one yen per telegram.
Article l4. The fee for the perusal of foreign telegrams
shall be five sen per telegram.
The fee for copying the photographs of foreign telegrams
shall be one yen per copy.
Article l5. The receipt for a foreign telegram shall,
in accordance with the request of the sender, be given out
each time a telegram is received, and the fee for each receipt
shall be five sen.
Article 16. No fee shall be charged for repeating tele-
grams inquiring about original telegrams through telegraph
offices when done at the request of the addressee.
Article 17. Mexican silver shall be used in the payment
of the charges for foreign telegrams at Japanese telegraph
offices in Shanghai and their rates shall be posed at these
telegraph offices.
Article 18.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Article 18. If the charges for ordinary telegrams,
urgent private telegrams comprising part of the whole, press
telegrams, and deferred press telegrams should have fractions
of less than one sen per word, such fractions shall be omitted.
Article 19. If the charges for foreign telegrams should
have fractions of less than one sen per telegram (one cent
in the case of the Mexican silver), such fractions shall be
omitted.
Article 20. Currency shall be used in the payment of
the charges for foreign telegrams at first and second class
post offices or telegraph offices (excluding offices where
special accountants are not stationed.
Article 2l. Those who want to send foreign telegrams
through the offices mentioned in the foregoing article, may
pay in advance the charges for these telegrams by means of
currency at the offices through which these telegrams shall
be despatched. The money to be paid in advance as mentioned
in the foregoing paragraph shall not be less than one hundred
yen each message ($1oo in the case of Mexican silver).
Article 22. If telegraph offices should receive prepaid-
money for the first time as stipulated in the foregoing article,
they shall give the senders pass-books mentioning therein the
amount received.
The prepaid-money for the second time and after shall be
paid in at telegraph offices where pass-books were obtained
and addressers shall request these offices to enter in
the pass-books the amount paid.
Article 23. Those who want to forward foreign telegrams
through the medium of pass-books shall present the foreign
telegrams together with pass-books to the telegraph offices
where pass-books were obtained.
Telegraph

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Telegraph offices shall then subtract from the prepaid
money the charges for foreign telegrams and enter the amount
of the charges in the pass-books which shall be returned to
the senders.
Article 24. Those who own pass-books and who want to pay
the charges for foreign telegrams at telegraph offices where
pass-books were obtained may utilize the prepaid money for this
purpose. In this case, the provisions of the foregoing article
shall be applied.
Article 25. If pass-books were stained or damaged or
lost, applications for re-issue of pass-books shall be presented
to the telegraph of ices here the old pass-books were obtained.
In this case, 20 sei
shall be charged for one pass-book.
Article 26. No -ee shall be charged for applications
requesting the return of the charges for foreign telegrams.
Article 27. In case the charges for foreign telegrams
shall be returned to the senders, postal stamps shall be used
when the senders have paid the charges in the form of postal
stamps and currency shall be used when the senders have paid
the charges in the form of currency.
Article 28. If the ordinary words of foreign telegrams
received in Japan should contain, or were altered into, national
languages other than the national languages of countries from
which foreign telegrams were despatched, and if such process
was not in accord with the method for the use of such national
languages, the telegraph offices concerned shall count the number
of words under the proper method and shall collect from the
receivers the amount in deficit.
Article 29. The provisions of Article 42, Article 44,
and Article 49 of the Regulations relating to Telegrams
(Ordinance

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
(Ordinance No. 47 of the Ministry of Communications issued
on August 22, 1925) shall apply to foreign telegrams.
Chapter 4.
Applications Tor Sendine Telegrams.
Article 0. Forei n telegrams shall, with the exception
of cases specially stipulated, be despatched through telegraph
offices authorized to handle foreign telerams.
Article 3l. If senders want to f rward foreign telegrams
outside the official hours for the handling of telegrams they
shall do so through telegraph offices Where such telegrams are
handled.
In the case of the foregoing paragraph, special fees
outside official hours shell be paid.
• However, no special
fee shall be imposed on the followin telegrams:
(1) Telegrams concerning the safety of lifes in
aerial and marine navigation.
(2)
Government reports.
(3)
Bureaux reports.
(4)
Urgent private reports.
(5) Press telegrams.
Article 32. The provisions of Article 25, Article 50,
Article 5l, and Article 57 shall apply to foreign telegrams.
Chapter 5.
Delivery of Telegrams.
Article 33. The delivery of foreign telegrams which
have arrived in Japan shall be carried out even without seal.
Article 34. Foreign telegrams which have arrived in Japan
shall not be handed over to the addressees directly but shall
be delivered to them through telegraph offices.
Article 35.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 1.00)
-7-
Article 35. No special additional fees shall be charged
for the d livery of foreign telegrams which have arrived in
Japan and which are specified as telegrans restante at post
offices or telegraph offices.
Article 36. Regarding forein telegrams addressed to
places outside the sphere of direct delivery of telegrams
which have no designation for delivery, or which are specified
as either mail or registered mail, addressees may previously
request telegraph or post ofrices to have such foreign telegrams
delivered by special messengers. In this case, special delivery
fees shall be paid.
Article 37. The provisions of Article 61, Article 65, Article
67, Article 159-Article 163, .rticle 165, Article 167-Article 171
of the Regulations relating to Telegrams shall apply to foreign
telegrams.
Telegraphic code addresses registered under the Regulations
relating to Telegrams, or destinations for delivery, or official
delivery certificates granted under the same Regulations shall
be regarded as havin been registered or granted under the present
Ordinance. In this case, no fee shall be charged.
Telegraphic code addresses containing figures and letters
shall not be registered.
Chapter 6.
Transmission of Foreign Telegrams through
Telegraph Nire.
Article 38. Regarding the transmission in trust of foreign
telegrams through telephone wires belonging to telephone subscribers,
or through either telegraph or telephone wires installed for the
purpose of forwarding and receiving telegrams, the provisions
relating to the transmission of telegrams through telegraph wires
in Chapter 9 of the Regulations relating to Telegrams shall be
applied.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
applied. However, the despatch of foreign telegrams through
telegraph or post offices shall, except as otherwise specially
provided for, only be granted to those who own pass-books
referred to above.
Article o9. The charses for foreign telegrams which are
despatched through telegraph offices by means of telegraph wires
shall be subtracted, from the prepaid-money each time a telegram
is despatched.
In this case, addressers shall present pass-books to
telegraph offices in clarge within a period of ten days computed
from the day on which telegrams are despatched and request
officials to enter the emount subtracted.
Chapter 7.
Special Telegrams.
rticle 40. Urgent private telegrams shall be given
special treatment both in forwarding and receiving.
Article 4l. Certificates of prepaid telegraph charges
shall not be utilized for the payment of the charges for the
despatch of one telegram or several telegrams, no matter whether
one certificate or several certificates are presented, nor shall
these certificates be used for the payment of return telegraph
charges in advance.
Article 42. Certificates of prepaid telegraph charges
shall not be issued for the second time.
Article 43. The special delivery of foreign telegrams
received in Japan shall, except within zones specially publicly
proclaimed, be undertaken.
Article 44. The provisions of Article 73, Article 82,
Article 85, Article 93, and Article 1ll of the Regulations
relating to Telegrams shall be applied to foreign telegrams.
Chapter 8.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Chapter 8.
Press Telegrams.
Article 45. Ordinary press telegrams and urgent press
telegrams shall be sent and received.
Article 46. The Japanese language and the English language
shall be specified as national 1 nguages to be used in press
telegrams.
Article 47. Press teleerans to and from various places
in foreign countries to be specially proclaimed may be handled
as deferred press telegrams at specially reduced charges.
Article 48. The transmission and delivery of deferred
press telegrams shall be carried on in a manner similar to
deferred ordinary telegrams.
Article 49. The four alphabetic letters "L c p s"
shall be attached to deferred press telegrams.
Article 50. If members of newspaper offices, periodical
publication offices and news agencies should desire to despatch
press telegrams, they shall present to the Minister of Communications
applications mentioning the follo.ing data and obtain the Minister's
permission:
1. The names and addresses of newspaper offices, periodical
publications offices, and news agencies, to whom telegrams are
addressed.
2. Addresses to be used in telegrams.
3. The names of telegraph offices where telegrams are
despatched and received.
4. The names and addresses of the applicants.
The forogoing paregraph shall also apply to cases where
either the whole or part of the aforementioned data is altered
after

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
after the Minister's permission has been obtained.
Article 5l. Certificates for the despatch of press telegrams
shall be handed over to applicants when the permission stipulated
in paragraph 1 of the forec oing article is to be given.
In case the permission stipulatec in paraereph 2 of the
foregoine article is to be  iven, the certificates previously
granted shall be exchanged for nev. certificates.
Article 5. Certificutes for the des stch of press
telegrams shall be valic ror cne year from the day of issue.
If applicants want to despatch press telegrams as hitherto
after the lapse of the period mentioned in the foregoing paragraph,
they shall obtain new certificates before the expiry of the period.
Article 53. If certificates for the despatch of press
telegrans should be stained, or damaged, or lost, upplicants
shall apply for the issue of new certificetes.
Article 54. If members of newspaper offices, etc. should
desire to despatch press telegrams, they shall show the certificates
to telegraph offices through which press telegrams are despatched.
Article 55. Addressees of press telegrams shall promptly
present to telegreph offices (where press telegrams were received)
one copy each of newspapers and periocical publications which
have printed press telegrams.
Article 56. Senders and addressees of press telegrams may,
by obtaining permission from the Minister of Communications,
cause addressees of press telegrams to pay the charges for press
telegrams, provided that press telegrams are despatched and
received at telegraph offices specially designated. However, this
caluse shall not apply to cases where the telegraph offices of
foreign countries concerned do not grant this privilege.
Article 57.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
Article 57. Senders who want to obtain the permission
stipulated in the foregoing article shall present applications
mentioning therein all the items stipulated in paragraph 1 of
Article 50 and also the names or routes th oueh which telegrams
will pass.
Addressees who want to obtain the permission stipulated
in the foregoing article shall present applications mentioning
therein the followine aata:
1. The names and addresses of correspondents who
despatch press telegrams.
2. The names of addressees to be used in press
telegrants.
3.
The names of telecreph offices which despatch and
receive press telegrams.
4. The names of tele raph routes.
5. Rough estimates of the nunber of words and of
telegraph charges for one month.
6. The names and addresses of newspeper offices, periodical
publications offices, and news agencies which receive and use
press telegrams.
If alterations should be introduced into the items men-
tioned in applications in the foregoing two paragraphs after
obtaining the permission stipulated in the foregoing article,
applications shall be presented again to the minister of
Communications for approval.
Article 58. In case the permission stipulated in Article 56
should be granted with regard to the despatch of press telegrams,
certificates for the despatch of press telegrams, in which it
is mentioned that permission is given the addressee to pay
telegraph charges, shall be handed over to the applicant.
The

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
The provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 51 shall be
applied to cases where permission is granted under the
provisions of paragraph 3 of the foregoing article with regard
to the despatch of press telegrams.
In case permission is granted under the provisions of
Article 56 or paragraph 3 of the foregoing article with
regard to the despatch of press telegrams, the applicant
shall be notified to tat effect.
Article 59. In case the addressee receives the notice
stipulated in peragraph 3 of the foreng article, he shall
deposit gurantee money in accordance with the direction of
telegraph offices receiving press telegrams.
The amount of urantee money s. all be fixed by telegraph
offices in cnarge by takin the rou h estimetes of telegreph
charges for a period of three months as a standard.
The amount of uarantee money may be altered at any time
as occasion requires.
National bonds may be used for guarantee money.
The permission for the payment of telegraph charges on the
part of the addressee with regard to press telegrams received
shall be valid when the guarantee money in paragraph one is
deposited.
Article 60. In case senders shall despatch press tele-
grams with a request that the charges shall be paid by addressees,
they shall mention in the telegram form the words R.T.P.
Article 6l. The charges for press telegrams to be paid
by an addressee shall be calculated every month and be communi-
cated to him.
An addressee shall pay telegraph charges to telegraph
offices in charge within ten days from the day on which the
notice in the foregoing paragraph was served.
Article 62.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
Article 62. If an addressee should fail to pay telegraph
charges during the specified period above mentioned, the
guarantee money shall be utilized and if the Euarantee money
should be found insufficient to cover telegra h charges the
deficit shall be charced to him.
A deficit in uarantee money brougnt about under the
provisions of the foregoing paragraph shall be paid by the
addressee at once.
Article 63. In case an addressee should fail to supplement
the uarantee money as stipulated in paragraph 3 of rticle 59
and in paragraph & of the foregoing article, he shall be
temporarily prohibited from paying press telegraph charges or
the permission iven him to pay the charges shall be canceled.
Article 64. Those who possess certificates for the
despatch f s telegrams shall return these certificates
when they do not wish to use the certificates, or when the
certificates have become invalid.
Chapter 9.
Telegrams at Reduced Rates.
Article 65. Deferred telegrams shall be treated.
Article 66. L.T. shall be treated both in forwarding and
receiving. The kinds of such telegrams and the names of places
to forward and receive telegrams shall be proclaimed specially.
Article 67. The transmission and delivery of L.T. shall
be undertaken on Sundays as well as weekdays.
Article 68. Congratulatory telegrams shall be treated
when original telegrams alone are despatched voluntarily. The
names of places where such telegrams are to be despatched shall
be specially proclaimed.
Article 69.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 1.00)
-14-
Article 69. The charges for congratulatory telegrams
shall be one-third of the charges for ordinary telegrams.
Article 70. Tnis article is canceled.
Article 70 - (2). Private telegrams in which the Easter
celebration alone is mentioned in the original telegrams may
be treated as Easter celebration telegrans, rovided these
telegrams shall be despatched and received at places of
foreign countries specially proclaimed.
Article 70 - (3). Hours for the treatment of Easter
celebration telegrams shall be specially proclaimed.
Article 70 - (4).
The provisions of the foregoing two
articles and all other provisions relatin to congratulatory
telegrams shall be applied to Easter celebration telerams.
Chapter 10.
Telegrams in the Japanese Language.
Article 71. Teleerams mentioned in the folloving sections
may be written in the Japanese language under the provisions
of the present chapter:
1. Telegrams to be forwarded and received between
Japanese telegraph offices at Shanghei and other Japanese
telegraph offices.
2. Telegrams to be forwarded and received between
Japanese telegraph offices and Chinese telegraph offices at
Tsingtao, Sifang, and Tsangkow by way of the submarine cable
between Sasebo and Tsingtao.
3. Telegrams to be forwarded and received between Japanese
telegraph offices and Chinese telegraph offices at Shanghai
by way of the wireless telegraph service between Osaka and
Shanghai.
4.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
4. Telegrams to be forwarded and received between
Japanese telegraph offices and Chinese telegraph offices at
Tientsin and Peiping by way of the wireless telegraph service
between Osaka and Tientsin.
Article 72. Telegrams written in Japanese shall not be
handled as registered mail or general communications.
Article 73. Regarding the method of writing Japanese
telegrams, the provizions of Article ε, paragraph 1 and paragraph
3 of Article 9, and Article 10 - rticle 17, and Article 18 of
the Regulations relating to Telegrems sall be applied.
The words "na re" in Japanese alphabet shall be used as
abridged words for the delivery of Ja anese telegrams which
have no seal and which shall be delivered through telegraph
offices by charging fees.
The words "ma mu" in Japanese alphabet shall be used as
abridged words for the delivery of congratulatory telegrams
through telegraph offices by charging fees.
Japanese telegrems which are mentioned by means of figures
altogether shall have the name of the addressee mentioned in
accordanca with the New Edition of Chinese Telegraph Regulations.
Article 74. The name of an addressee of Japanese telegrams
shall be counted as one word, even though it contains more
than one word. This clause shall also apply to cases where
the name of an addressee is mentioned together with the name of
a principal addressee and where the name of an addressee is newly
added.
Article 75. Seven letters each and fractions of original
telegrams, etc. mentioned below shall be regarded as one letter
or word.
1.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
1. Telegrams to ascertain original telegrams through
telegraph offices by paying fees.
2. Original telegrams.
3. Signature of an addresser.
Article 76. Regarding the countin of the number of
letters or words in Japanese telegrams, the provisions of
Article 27 of the Regulations relating to Telegrams shall
be applied.
Article 77. Even if the number of letters or words
mentioned in a single Japanese telegrem should be less
than three, the c'arges for three letters or words shall be
imposed.
The minimum limit
in the number of letters or words of
congratulatory telegrals written in Japanese shall be five
letters or words despite the provisions of paragraph 8 of
Article 77 of the International Telegraph Regulations.
Article 78. Regarding Japanese telegrams which are
not collated telegrams, the charges received shall not
be returned, even though the object of telegrams was not
attained on account of errors and onissions in words.
Article 79. Japanese telegrams may be despatched
through Japanese telegraph offices at Shanghai by means of
post, the charges of which have been fully paid. In this
case, the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 53, and Article
56 of the Regulations relating to Telegrams shall apply.
Article 80. The charges for Japanese telegrams to be
despatched through Japanese telegraph offices at Shanghai
by means of post as stipulated in the foregoing article may
be paid in the form of postal stamps issued by the Japanese
Government.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
Government. The charges in this case shall be in accord
with the charges applied to similar telegrams in Japan
proper.
Article 8l. Regarding the despatch and delivery of
Japanese telegrams, the provisions of Article l07, Article
108, Article 114, and Article 115 of the Regulations relating
to Telegrams shall be applied.
Article 82. In case the cnarges for return telegrams
should be paid in advance, the number of letters or words of
return telegrams shall be mentioned beneath remarks specified.
Article 83. The charges for conmunicating the arrival
of telegrams shall be the same as the charges for two words
of ordinary telegrams. The charges for communicating the
arrival of mail shall be five sen.
Article 84. Regarding multiple telegrams, the provisions
of paragraph 1 of Article 99, Article 100 and Article 102 of
the Regulations relating to Telegrams shall be applied.
In multiple telegrams the word "multiple" shall be
mentioned in an original telegram in which the number of
multiple tele rams shall be mentioned.
Article 85. In case addressees should request the
repetition of telegrams, the name of telegraph office through
which the request shall be despatched shall be counted as
one word, even though the name consists of several words.
The words of original telegrams and the signature of addressees
shall be counted, and every seven letters or words and fractions
shall be regarded as one word.
Article 86. The charges for tracing through telegraph
offices either outgoing or return telegrams written in Japanese
shall be four sen in the case of ordinary mail and 14 sen in
the

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
the case of registered mail. However, five sen shall be charged
for ordinary mail and 15 sen for registered mail in the case
of either outgoing or return telegrams to be despatched from
Japanese telegraph offices at Shanghai or Chefoo, or in the case
of return telegrams des atched from Chinese telegraph offices at
Shanghai, Tientsin, Peiping, Tsingtao, Sifang, and Tsangkow.
Article 37. If the present chapter is found to be insufficient
in dealing with Japanese telegrans, the provisions relating to
foreign telegrams shall be applied.
Supplementary Rules.
Article 38. The present ordinance shall be put into force
on and after January 1, 1954.
The regulations relating to foreign telesrams promulgated
under Ordinance No. 26 of the Ministry of Communications in
June 1909 and the regulations relating to special foreign
telegrans concerning Christmas and New Year greetings promulgated
under Ordinance No. 54 of the Ministry of Conmunications in
December 1926 shall be abrogated.
Foreign telegrams despatched before the enforcement of
the present ordinance shall be treated according to usages
prevailing hitherto.
Article 89. The charges for foreign telegrams (excluding
the prepaid charges for return telegrams) shall be collected in
accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and the amount of
the charges shall be proclaimed specially.
Article 90. Registration, permission, and permit executed
under the Regulations relating to Foreign Telegrams before the
enforcement of the present ordinance shall be regarded as having
been executed under the present ordinance, provided the present
ordinance contains provisions corresponding to such execution.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 4 to despatch
no. 2925 or May 5, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Regulations Relating to Vireless Telegraph essages.
(Ordinance No. 51 of the Ministry of Communications
aurust 22, 1925.)
(Revised December 1928)
Translation.
Cha.ter 1.
cenerul nules.
rticle l. . wireless telefraph messare is a
telegras transmitted by wireless telerruphy or wire-
less telepnony.
rticle 2.
. In these regul tions by a coastal
wireless station is meant a overnment telegraph sta-
tion on land wnich senas messa es ry wireless teleeraphy
or wireless telennony to vessels; by  ship station is
meant a telegranh orfice on shipboard; by a fixed sta-
tion is meant a rovernrent telerraph office which
sends messares by wireless televranhy or wireless tele-
phony on land; a special transmitting and receivine
station denotes wireless telegraph or telephone used
by the Government authorities and by private individu-
als, which are installed for the purpose of transmitting
or receiving wireless telegraph messages between Govern-
ment telegraph offices, and it also denotes military
wireless telegrams, wireless telegrams permitted by the
naval authorities, and also military telegrams per-
mission for the transmission or receipt of which has
been granted by the Minister of Communications.
Coastal stations, ship stations, fixed stations,
and special transmitting and receiving stations men-
tioned in the preceding clause shall give notice of
their name and call symbol.
Article 3.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Article 3. Government telegraph stations shall
handle wireless telegraph messages regardless of the
time of day, provided that this does not apply to
those Government telegraph stations which have a fixed
time for the handlin of tele rams.
article 4. shir stations shall not handle wire-
less messages when the ship is laid up or is at anchor.
article 5. When a shin is wrecked all messares
of coastal stations, ship ststions, and fixed stations,
except wireless messages reporting the name of the ship,
the position and condition of the vessel, and particu-
lars important for its relief, shall be held in abey-
ance and shall be thereafter handled in the order of
precedence.
Article 6. Wireless telegraph messages provided
for in the preceding article may be sent as official
messages, provided that this does not apply to messages
which are of necessity sent by ordinary telegraph.
Article 7. Wireless telegraph messages which
report dangers or warnings regardin navigation and
provisions important to the preservation of life and
property on the seas shall be handled in accordance
with the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs
when the messages are recognized by a coastal station,
a fixed station, or a ship station as of an urgent
character.
Article 8. The method of transmitting messages
between coastal stations, ship stations, fixed stations,
and

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
and special transmitting and receiving stations shall
depend on an agreement for the handling of wireless naval
messages which will be iven snecial public notice.
The provisions of the precedin clause shall apply
to the method  ce unicnti between special trans-
mittin and receivin st: t: s, exce:t  ecinl trans-
mitting and receivin: nav 1 stations, and ccastal
stations, ship stations, and fixed stations.
article 8 - 2. the rules relatinr te wireless
messages to and from vessels, or to communications re-
porting shipping disasters, mentioned in the present
ordinance, and also to wireless messares giving warn-
ing of danger to shins in navication, or to information
necessary for the safety of lives and property on the
seas, shall apply to wireless messares between air
craft, or to communications recarding disaster to air
craft, ana also to wireless messa es ivin warning
of danger to air craft, or information necessary for
the safety of lives and property in the air.
The rules relatin& to ship stations provided for
in the present ordinance shall anply to telegraphy in
air craft, and the rules relatint to coastal wireless
stations shall also anply to telegraph offices on
land which exchange communication with air craft by
means of wireless telegraphy or wireless telephony.
Article 9. Matters which are not provided for in
these regulations shall depend on the provisions relating
to domestic telegrams.
Chapter II

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Chapter II
Wireless Messages Relating to the Arrival
and Departure of Ships.
Article 10. In the address of a wireless tele-
graph messare, which is to pass through a coastal
station to & shin, shall be included in parentheses
the name of that coastal station and in telegrams in
English the name of the coastal station shall be in-
cluded in the number of words.
In case a messure cannot be sent iy a coastal
station and if it is possible to send tne message
throuch another coastal station, it should be done.
ven if the messare ie not sent by wireless telegraph
or telephone, if it is rossible to send it throuh a
land teleeraph office it should be done.
In forwarding wireless teleeraph messages, if
necessary the wireless teleraph message charges may
be utilized as delivery charges and the telegram may
be forwarded as a special delivery or delivered by
lighters.
Article ll. Jireless telegraph messages requiring
a coastal station as an intermediate station shall men-
tion the following symbol:
Japanese telegram na ra (tう)
Foreign telegram
R. S.
The above-mentioned intermediate station shall be
used only once.
Article 12. If the sender of a wireless telegraph
message to a ship desires to fix the period of delay
in

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
in the despatch of a telegram, he shall mention the
number of days.
A wireless telegraph message not mentioning the
date for detention shall le ent at a coastal station
for nine days Irom the uny or despatch, nrovided that
the snip has already passed outside the zone of com-
munication and the telegram is rendered impossible of
delivery. The coastal office will not detail the
telegram if it i: reco nized as necessary.
article 13. If the sender intends to extend the
period of detention stipulated in the foregoing ar-
ticle, he shall inform the coastal station to that
effect before the expiration ef the period. oreover
if he intends to extend the peried for a secend time
he shall to through the same process. If he fails to
mention the nunber cf days in this instance, the period
of extension shall be for nine Jays.
In the application form of the vreceding paragraph,
the date of despatch, number of words or of characters,
the name of sender, and the name of recipient shall be
mentioned. The sender may demand the application of
the stipulations of the precedin: paragraph through a
government forwarding telegraph office, and if he de-
sires telegraphic information, even if that telegram
is an official report, then he shall pay the same fee
charged for government messages. If it is a private
or press message, then he shall pay the fee charged for
private or press messages.
.rticle 14

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
Article 14. In wireless telegraph messages to
or from ships, with prepaid answer, the cost of the
answer is to be included in code. If that prepaid
answer is 80 sen or less, it need not be mentioned.
In case a coastal station or a shir station has
issued a recei t for a renalu answer for a wireless
telefraph messare audreasea to e special transmitting
or receivin: office on a vessel, the date of issue of
the recei t, the number o tue receipt, une tie pre-
paid cost shall be reported to thet s ecial transmitting
and forwardin station when desuatched.
The special transmittin and receivin station
which receives the inrormation mentioned in the pre-
cedin aracrap mey meke use of that receipt by in-
forming the receint-issuin: office the number of the
receipt when despatchin the answer, provided thet,
when the receint is not used within three days from
the date of the receirt of the inrormation stipulated
in the foregoing peragraph, that receipt shall be re-
turned to the special transmitting ana forwarding station.
Article 15. In an inquiry or alt ration or sus-
pension regardin wireless telegraph messa es to and
from ships, if an answer is necessary, the authorities
in charge shall handle it, provided that the answer is
to go only by a land telegraph office.
Article 16. A wireless telegraph message to or
from a ship, if forwarded by a land telegraph office,
may be despatched as an urgent telegram, as a retrans-
mitted telegram, or as a telegram requiring acknowledg-
ment or receipt.
The

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
The sender of a telegram addressed to a ship who
requires information relating to the receipt of tele-
grams shall be informed of the time of the despatch
of the telegran from a coastal station.
rticle 17. Wirelees tele raph nessaes to or
fron a snip snall not  e trented as a airect tele, ram
and shall not be sent by way f rorein countries.
article le.Wireless tele ranh messaces ritten
in Ja anese, w ich are audressed to a siip station
with the object of civin informetion to the public
on board a ship under way, nd waicn, with the per-
mission of the onief of the ureau of communications
in charre, is submitted by the sender to a specified
telerraph office for transmissien, snall, unless other-
wise provided for, be treated as a press telerram.
In this instance, neithor the transmittin: certificate
nor the receivin certificate need be presented vhen
the telegram is either forwarded or received. The au-
thorities concerned shall not allow the sender to make
any previous arrangement for the despatching of the
telegram nor shall they ermit the sender to nay a
telegraph charge after the transission of the same.
rticle l9. a press wireless telegraph message
addressed to more than two ship stations through one
and the same coastal station, in accordance with the
provisions of the preceding article, may be regarded
as a multiple telegram provided that they are transmitted
through telegraph offices on land. However, the Jap-
anese symbol ra yo (7 3 ) shall be used in place of
the abbreviations of multiple telegrams.
Erovisions

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
Provisions of clauses 2 and 3 of Article 10 shall
not apply to multiple telegrams of the foregoing clause,
provided that this provision shall not be applied when
the whole of the multiple telegram can be transmitted
through one and the same coastal station or can be
delivered throuh land telerrane offices.
Article 20.
. Transmission ana recei t of wireless
telegrams to and from ships shall e carried out only
when the ship to weieh or fro w ieh the teleerun is
addressed is within the rauius of cormunication.
article 21. Those whe have installed special for-
warding and receivini stations on ships who fail to pay
the charges provided for in article 47 or in article 5
of the irivate Wireless Telerrapn erul ticns, may have
the transmission of wireless telegraph messages to
their stations oy Government telegraph stations suspended.
Chapter III.
Wireless Telegraph Messages on Land.
Article 22. In wireless telegraph messages re-
quiring transm ssion between fixed stations, the fol-
lowing abbreviations shall be mentioned when the telegram
is to be forwarded in accordance with special notice:
Japanese telegram: na i (+)
Foreign telegram:
R. ..
Article 23. In the transmission of a wireless
telegraph message which requires transmission between
fixed stations, it may if necessary be transmitted be-
tween other fixed stations in place of those mentioned
above, or may be transmitted through ordinary telegraph
stations.
Article 24.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Article 24. In case a special restriction is
made regarding the kind of wireless telegraph messages
which require transmission between fixed stations, the
time of handling such telegrams and other matters shall
be announced publicly.
rticle 25.
rovisions f rticle 2l shall be
applied to wireless telegrams to ana from special trans-
mitting and receiving stations on land.
Chanter IV.
Despatch Wireless Telegraph .essaes.
article 26. ireless tele rarn messares which are
forwarded every day throu hout the year with the object
of notifyint tne public on board forein and Ja anese
vessels in navigation, or with the object of notifying
various public organizations to be specially designated
by the authorities, or with the object of publicatic
in the press, may be regarded as despatch wireless tele-
graph messages.
Article 27. any one who desires to send despatch
wireless telegrapn messa, es shall present to the  inister
of Communications throuh the bureau of Communications
within the district in which he resides an application
mentioning therein the following items, and thus obtain
permission to handle wireless telegraph messages. After
permission has been received, if he intends to change
any of the following items, with the exception of number
9, he shall follow the same procedure:
1.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
1.
The object of despatching messages and
the kinds of matters to be broadeasted;
2.
The distinction between Japanese and
forein telegrams; in the case of a
foreign language, to mention the language
in which it is to be sent;
3.
iumber of werus or cnaracters of each
wireless telerrpn messa, e;
4.
The telepraph ofrice wnich despatches
the messa: es;
5. The telecraph ofrice for broadcasting;
6. The time of the despatch of telerrams;
7. The tine of broadcastins;
8.
lectric wave lenth of broadcasting;
9.
Name and address of receiver (name of
the vessel to which teleeram is addressed,
route of navigation and nane of ship
owner, neme of organizstions to he pub-
licly notified and the places where they
are situ ted, nure I newspaner in which
telegram is to be punlished, and the place
of the newspa er's nublication shall be
mentioned);
10. Code address of receiver.
In case precedin number 9 is altered, such altera-
tion shall be notified to the . inister of Commerce
through the forwardine telegraph office. ny one who
desires to obtain permission for the despatch of more
than two wireless telegraph messages a day, shall send
in an application for each.
Article 28. lublic notice shall be made of the
receiver of wireless telegrams and the code address.
Article 29. If deemed necessary, the Minister of
Communications may change items nos. 3 to 8 and no. 10
of Article 27.
Article 30

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
Article 30. In case the number of words or char-
acters to be broadcasted is to be altered, an applica-
tion therefor shall be made one month previously.
The number of words or characters to be broad-
casted cannot be altered durin the month to suit the
convenience of the sender.
Article 3l. Tne contents of a wireless telegraph
message shall be composed of the code address, the
name of receiver, ano the tele ra: itself.
article 32. . wireless telegraph messace to be
broadcasted shall be composed in Japanese or in foreign
languages in general use.
Article 33. a wireless telegraph messae presented
for transmission after the lapse of time fixed for the
despatch of that telegram may not be handled.
Art'cle 34. a telegram in which are mentioned mat-
ters recognized as an advertisement or private informa-
tion sha. 1 not be treated as a wireless telegraph message,
Article 35. . wireless telegraph message shall not
be given special treatment as rovided in chapter VII
of Telegraph Regulations.
Article 36. In case it is necessary that a stamp
or stamps be affixed, the words "wireless broadcasting"
shall he mentioned in the form in red ink. The address
of the receiver shall be mentioned in code.
Article 37. The number of words of a wireless tele-
graph message must not exceed the number of words
sanctioned by the authorities.
Article 38.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
Article 38. À wireless telegraph message addressed
to a ship on which a telegraph office is installed shall
be handed direct to the receiver by that telegraph office.
A receiver of a wireless telegraph message who resides
in the zone stipulated in article 26 shall make previous
arran enent with the telegrarh ofriee to he specially
notified, and snall receive the tele ran st the above-
mentionea telegranh office.
The receiver of a wireless tele ranh messa e who
hus his own wireless tele re may, in s ite r tue pro-
visions of the foregoint twe clauses, receive that
telegram.
article 39.
In case a sender fails to pay charges
by the time fixed in the second clause of rticle 54,
delivery of the telerran shall e suspended as lon as
he fails to ray.
In case the period of suspension of delivery of
the telegram of the foregoine clause exceeds thirty days,
or the number of times of suspension exceeds three times
a year, the official permission granted for the handling
of wireless telegraph messages may be canceled.
rticle 40. If it is intended to cancel the despatch
of a wireless telegraph message, a written statement to
that effect shall, fifteen days previous to cancellation
be presented to the Minister of Communications through
the Bureau of Communications within whose jurisdiction
the sender resides.
Article 41. The Minister of Communications may
cancel permission for handling of wireless telegraph
messages

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
messages when he deems it necessary in the interests of
the public.
Article 41 - 2. The provisions of the present
chapter shall apply to wireless messages forwarded
regularly every month frem ov rnment offices for the
purpose of broadeastin. information resiectinp in-
fectious diseases to shins in naviction.
Chanter V.
Churres.
Article 42.
The followin charges shall be im-
posed on wireless teleranhic or telegraphic messages
forwarded to or received et coastal, ship, or fixed
stations or handled at intermediate stations, provided
that no charge shall be iposed on messa es handled be-
tween fixed
stitions except in cases where charges are
announced publicly:
Ordinary
Telegranh Charges
Official and irivate Telegrams:
Japanese telegrams:
Not exceeding 15 words ..... 25 sen
for each additional five words or
less when exceeding 15 words
5 sen
Foreign telegrams: Hot exceeding 5 words .....
25
sen
for each additional word
5
sen
Press telegrams: Not exceeding 50 words
25 sen
for each additional 50 words or less .. 20 sen
Multiple telegram charges:
Japanese telegrams:
For each telegram except
first message
15 sen
Foreign telegrams: For each telegram
except first message
15 sen
Press telegrams: For each additional 50 words
or

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
or less, except the first message .... 15 sen
For each additional 50 words or
less, when in excess of 50 words ..... 10 sen
Regarding addressees, excluding the first ad-
dressee, mentioned in Jananese telerra s, or regarding
"F.s." (Faire suivre) telegrams (messa. es to be de-
livered at the destination throuh various telegraph
offices), or regarding addressees, excluding tle first
addressee, mentioned in teleerans for re-transmission,
five sen shall be char&ed lor each adaressee.
Article 43. in eddition to the charges stinulated
in the foregoing article, ordinary telerraph charces
shall be imposed on wireless tele ras which re uire
transmission tnrou h the ordinary teleeraph service.
However, wireless telegraph messages to and from a
ship shall he subject to the imposition of ordinary
telegraph charges, the amount of which is identical
with that of telegrems transmitted between points in
Japan proper (excluding transmission between the same
cities, or towns, or villages, and between Japan proper
and the Bonin Islands), no matter whether the wireless
telegraph messages are transmitted through the ordinary
telegraph system or not.
Article 44. In case a coastal station, which dis-
charges the additional duties of a fixed station, handles
a wireless telegram to and from a ship, on which special
charges are imposed for transmission between fixed sta-
tions, no charge shall be levied at the coastal station
for the transmission and receipt of the above telegram.
Article 45.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
Article 45. No charges shall be imposed on naval
wireless telegrams forwarded or received between Special
Naval Wireless Stations anu telegraph ofrices, regarding
which special notice shall be iven.
article 46. n cuses where no char e is imposed
on wireless tele rums hich do not re uire transmission
over ordinary telerraph lines, the treatment I such
telegrams at coastal,ship stations, or fixed stations
shall be the same as that of the ordinary telegraph
system, and accordingly tne ordinary telerraph charres,
as provided for in rticle 43, shall be imposed on such
telegrams.
rticle 47. The charges on wireless telegrams
which are fomwareed fron pecinl Wireless Transmitting
and Receivin: stations shall he imposed according to
the followin classifications:
1. Telegrams forwarded from special maval
Wireless Transmitting and Receiving stations:
A. The charges on naval wireless telegrams
shall be received from the Department of the
Navy in accordance with special rules to be
promulgated.
B. The charges on wireless telegrams which
have been sanctioned by the naval authorities
shall be collected from addressees in the form
of postage stamps, in accordance with the usage
relating to the collection of additional imposi-
tions, while the charges on wireless telegrams
reaching Special Naval Transmitting and Re-
ceiving Stations other than those mentioned
above shall be collected from the senders.
2.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
2. Telegrams to be forwarded from Special Wireless
Transmitting and Receiving Stations other than the
Special Naval vireless Stations mentioned above:
The amount of charges shall be fixed by the
Government authoritics in cnarre and notice
riven te those who have set un special wire-
less Trans ittint und teceivin st t ons, who
shall have to pay the charres in currency in
accordance with tue usa e relstin to the
collecti  of, eneral revenue.
il necessary,
the authorities shall order them to pay the
charges in the form of postate stamns. The
authorities may also appoint a representative
of persons who must pay cnarges and cause him
to vay the charres at e lace to be specified
by the Government authorities.
The charges in the foresoing paragraph, which
are to be naid by those who have set up the
Special Mireless Transmitting and Receiving
Stations, shall be paid on the date on which
the Government authorities notify the amount
of the charges to those who have set up the
stations, or to their representative.
Article 48. With regard to wireless telegraph
messages received by a Special Wireless Transmitting
and Receiving station, additional charges thereof re-
ceived from an addressee shall be collected from those
who have set u the station. s regards wireless tele-
graph messages sanctioned by the naval authorities and
which

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
which have been received by a Special Naval Wireless
Transmitting and Receiving station, additional charges
thereof to be received from the addressee shall be
collected from the sender.
rticle 49. If there is eny dericit in the charres
as stinulated in paraerarns 2 and 3 of .rticle 10, such
deficit shall be collected from the addressee. in the
case of multiple telegrams, any deficit shall be allotted
equally to each of the telerras.
In case veneral telerrams are, owing to an inter-
ruption of ordinary telegranh lines or a congestion in
telegraph communication, transmitted by fixed, ship, or
coastal stations, to suit the recuireme ts of the occa-
sion, the transmission of  eneral tele re s shall be
regarded as transmission throu h the ordinery telepraph
system, and no wireless char es shall be levied.
Article 50. The followin& charges shall be refunded,
provided that any amount utilized for the payment of
other charges shall not be returned:
1. Wireless telegraph message charges for a
portion of a wireless telegram which was not
transmitted or received by means of either
wireless telegraph or wireless telephone.
2. An ordinary telegraph charge of a portion
of an ordinary telegram which was not trans-
mitted or received through the ordinary tele-
graph system.
In case a wireless telegraph message is transmitted
through the ordinary telegraph system, or between fixed
stations

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.97)
-18-
stations instead of those Fixed tations originally
specified as provided in rticle 23, the transmission
of the telegram shall be regarded as transmission be-
tween fixed stations specified oririnally, and the
wireless charre t ereof sill not be refunded.
rticle 51.
n licati a reuuesti the refund
of charges on wireless teleprans wnich have already
been paid to a shin statien,  ay be presented to any
tele:rarh office.
article o2. The period of holdin telecrams at
coastal stations, as stinulated in .rticles 12 and 13,
and the number of days recuired for the transmission
of a certificate acknowledrin receipt in advance of
charges on replies or return messares, as provided in
article 14, shall not be included in the period men-
tioned in applications recuesting the refund of charges
on wireless telegraph messages.
Article 53. The charges on wireless telegraph
messages are fixed according to the following classi-
fications and each person shall pay Yen 1 (one yen)
per month; however, with regard to wireless telegraph
messages stipulated in Article 41 - 2, no charge shall
be imposed on ships except as mentioned in the follow-
ing table:
Japanese Telegrams:
Number of words in a single
Amount per month
wireless telegraph message.
Yen
Not exceeding l00 words
20
n
n
250
n
40
n
n
500
n
80
n
n
1000
n
140
n
n
1500
n
200
n
n
2000
n
260
European

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.94)
-19-
European Telegrams:
Number of words in a single
Amount per month
wireless telegraph message
Yen
Within 20 words
20
1"
50
1"
40
100
1"
80
1"
200
"
140
300
200
1"
400
1"
260
article 54.
The charges on wireless
tele,raph
messares shall be counted each month, and
tele/raph
offices, throurh which the
telerrams were forwarded,
shall notify senders the amount of the char es not later
than the loth of the following month.
On receipt of the al ove notice, senders shall nay
the charges in currency to the above telegraph offices
not later than the 25th of that month.
Article 55. If the operetion of a wireless tele-
graph station is either started or abandoned in the
course of a month, the charges for broadcasting informa-
tion for that month shall be counted by days.
Article 56. Even if the number of words actually
used in a wireless telegraph message does not reach the
number of words granted officially for transmission,
the charges stipulated in Article 53 shall not be reduced.
Article 57. Even though a wireless telegraph message
may not be transmitted and delivered on account of ob-
structions in the execution of the business of the tele-
graph offices, the charges provided in Article 53 shall
not be reduced or refunded.
Article 58.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
Article 58. The charges on wireless telegraph
messages which come under any of the following cate-
gories shall be reduced:
1. In case permission is, in the course of a
month, canceled as urovided ror in  rticle 4l, or
the nurber of woras to re reaacasted is reduced
in accordance with rticle 29, in the course of
a month, the charpes tor the number of days after
the date un wiien pertissien was canceled or the
nunber of worus reauced as above stated, shall be
reduced.
2. In case a wireless telegraph messae is not
broadcasted for more than three successive days
on account of defects in equioment and other
unavoidable circumstances in the execution of
business, the charges for the number of those
days shall he reduced.
article 59. In cases when permission is canceled
by virtue of paragrapn 2 of ..rticle 39, or the trans-
mission of wireless telegrarh messages is abanuoned
in accordance with the provisions of Article 40, if
one year has not elapsed after permission is ranted,
the charges for the number of words to be broadcasted
during the remainder of that year shall be collected
at one and the same time.
Supplementary Rules.
The present rules shall be put into force on and
after November 1, 1925.
The

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
-21-
The Rules Relating to Radio Mireless Telegrams,
and Ordinance No. 7 of the Department of Communications
issued in March 1917 are canceled.
Wireless telegraph messa: es presented to the
proper authorities for  ernission berere the enforce-
ment of the present rules snall be treated according
to the usares heretofore in force.
Those wireless telegraoh messares which had offi-
cial sanction ror transmissi .ef re the enfercement
of the present rules ani vaich re still lerally in
effect shall be rerarded  s b vin obtained permission
for transmission under the uresent rules.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no.
to despatch
no. 2925
ofhay 5, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Regulations Relating to Foreign Wireless
Telegraph.
Ministry of Conmunications Ordinance No. 517, promulgated
December 29, 1932; revised by Ministry Ordinance No. 52
of December 1935 and Ministry Ordinance No. 12 of March 1937.
Chapter 1.
General Rules.
Article l. By foreign wirele s tele rans are meant those
telegrams sent from or received by a mobile telegraph office
in accorda ce with the provisions of the Internetional Electric
Communications Treaty and the Regulations Relating to ireless
Communicaticns attached thereto (hereinafter called International
Wireless Regulaticns) as well as those telegrams broadcasted in
foreign countries and handled by wireless offices(stations) on
Japanese vessels.
Article 2. Foreien wireless telegrams are handled in
accoraance with the provisions of this orcinance as well as
the stipulations of the International Telegraphic Communications
Treaty and the International Mireless Communicaticns Regulations.
Article 3. Such limitations or restrictions relating to
the handling of foreign wireless telegrams as defined by
foreign government offices concerned on the basis of the
Internetional Electric Communications Treaty and the International
Wireless Communications Regulations shall be publicly proclaimed
when it is deemed necessary to do so.
Article 4. As regards those matters not specially provided
for in this ordinance, the rules relating to Japanese script
telegrams to or from foreign countries and the rules relating
to general foreign telegrams (excepting the rules set forth in
articles 50 to 54 of the Foreign Telegraph Regulations) shall
apply to Japanese script telegrams to or from foreign countries
and other telegrams, respectively.
Chapter 2.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Chapter 2.
General Wireless Telegrams.
Article 5. Telegranh fees for wireless telegrams to
or from foreign countries charged by Japanese stationary
offices and Japanese mobile orfices are as follows:
Stationary office - 24 sen per vora.
Mobile office
- 16 sen per word.
Article 6. The telegra h fee for transmission of
foreign wireless telegrams on general electric communication
routes through the medium of a Jspanese Government stationary
office which is transmitted exclusively by the Japanese telegraph
system (excluding the telegraph system in Kwantung Leased
Territory and South .anchuria Railway Zone) is fixed at 6 sen
per word.
Article 7. As regards telegraph fees for foreign
wireless telegrams sent through the medium of the Japanese
Government stationary offices and the Manchou Telegraph and
Telephone Company, Ltd. (hereinafter to be called the
Manchou Company), which are transmitted exclusively by the
telegraph system of the Japanese Government (excluding the
Japanese telegraph office in Shanghai) and that of the
Manchou Company, the rates of the Japan-Lanchoukuo telegraph
service shall apply thereto.
Article 8. Telegraph fees for foreign wireless telegrams
to be charged by foreign stationary offices and foreign offices
as well as those for foreign wireless telegrams accepted by
Japanese mobile offices and transmitted to foreign stationary
offices shall be fixed according to the rate determined by the
Government to which such stationary and mobile offices belong
or by the private enterprises to which they belong.
The

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
The rates of conversion of foreign currencies to be
used in estimating telegraph fees mentioned in the preceding
paragraph shall be proclaimed separately.
Article 9. In the collection of forein telegraph
fees cnarged by staticnary offices or mobile offices or in
the fees charged by mobile offices in the repetition of
messages, a frection not reaching one sen is omitted.
Article 10. The fee for either a comestic telegram or
Japan-anchoukuo telegram containing six ords shall, so far
as possible, be applied to reports announcing the arrival
of foreign wireless telegrams which have been transmitted
exclusively by the Japanese telegraph system (excluding Japanese
telegraph offices in Shanghai) and hich arrive at a mobile
office through the medium of a Japanese stationary office.
Article ll. In case a foreign wireless telegram arriving
at a stationary office is retransmitted by the Japanese
stationary office designated by its sender to another
Japanese stationary office, no special charges shall be
levied thereon.
Article l2. In the case of foreign wireless telegrams
no extra fees shall be charged for handling after office hours.
Article 13. A foreign wireless telegram may be re-
transmitted at the request of its receiver or one who
receives it on behalf of the receiver, this, however, being
limited to the telegraph system of the Japanese Government
and that of the Manchou Telegraph and Telephone Company.
Article 14. Deferred press wireless telegrams are not
handled.
Article 15. Foreign wireless telegrams falling under
each of the undermentioned categories may be written in
Japanese script:
1. Telegrams sent from a Japanese mobile office to
the

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
the Japanese telegreph office in Shanghai and vice versa,
through the medium of a Japanese stationary office or a Japanese
mobile office as the case may be.
2. Telegrams sent from a Japanese mobile office to the
Chinese telegraph office in Tsingtao or Szefang or Tsangkou
and vice versa, through the medium of a Japanese stationary
office or a Japanese mobile office as the case may be and by
way of the Sasebo-Tsingtao submarine cable route.
3. Telegrams sent from a Jepanese mobile office to
the Chinese telegraph office in Shanghai and vice vers,
through the medium of a Jananese stationary office or a
Japanese mobile office as the case may be,and by way of
the Osaka-Shanghai wireless connection service.
4. Telegrams sent from a Japanese mobile office to
the Chinese telegraph office in Tientsin or Peiping and vice
versa, through the medium of a Japanese stationary office or
a Japanese mobile office as the case may be, and by way of the
Osaka-Tientsin wireless connection route service.
5. Telegrams sent from the Japanese maritime offices
(wireless stations on ships) to the Chinese telegraph office
at Tsingtao or Szefang or Tsangkou and vice versa, through
the medium of the Chinese wireless station in Tsingtao.
Article l6. In the address of a foreign wireless telegrem
in Japanese script arriving at a mobile office there shall be
mentioned the name of the land office through which the same
is transmitted, it being written within parentheses or brackets.
Article 17. The remark or abbreviation to be used in
foreign wireless Japanese script telegrams in designating
the charges for repetition at the offices on board ships is "nayo".
(+3).
The

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
The remark or abbreviation to be used in foreign
wireless Japanese script telegrems for designating the
charges on their being held in custody at a land office for
a number of days is the numerical figure denoting such
number of days.
Article 18.  ireless telegrams sent from "takuso-
hatsuju-sho" provided for in rticle 2, or the ireless
Telegraph Regulations to foreign countries on foreign ships
and vice versa, through the medium of a Japanese coast office
or a Japanese ship office shall be handled according to the
telegrams sent from or arriving at the Japanese ship offices.
No particular extra fee shall be charged for their handling
at the "takuso-hatsuju-sno".
The provisions of Article e, Article 14 (paragrephs 2
and 3 only), Article 21, Article 45, Article 47, and Article
48, of the ireless Telegraph egulations apply mutatis
mutandis to the telegrams referred to in the preceding paragraph.
The fee relating to the telegrems sanctioned by the navy
authorities as provided for in Article 47 of the ireless Tele-
graph Regulations is collected from their senders and the
fee relating to the telegrams sanctioned by the navy authorities
according to the provisions of Article 48 of the same Regula-
tions from their receivers.
Chapter 3.
Foreign Wireless Telegrams
Broadcased to Ships.
Articles 19 to 28 (Repealed)
Article 29. A person who desires to receive telegrams
broadcasted to ships by foreign wireless stations (henceforth
referred to simply as foreign broadcast wireless telegrams
to ships) at the wireless station installed on a ship with
the

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
the object of making thempublic on board the ship during the
voyage, shall file a written application mentioning therein
the matters specified hereunder and obtain the permission of
the Minister of Communications thereon:
1. Name of the forein wireless station broadcasting
such telegraphic messages; nane of the person conducting the
said wireless station; denomination of the wireless station;
form of sendin out the messages; freguency; and time of
broadcasting (Greenwich stanaard time);
Date of starting the receipt of wireless messages;
3.
Name of the wireless station on the ship where
messages are to be delivered;
Name of the receiver of nessages;
5.
Address and name of the erp icant.
In case the applicant wants to alter the matters of
the aforementioned items after he has obtained the permission
referred to in the preceding paragraph, he shall file an
application in writing to that effect and obtain the permission
of the Minister of Conmunications thereon. In case a change
occurs in the name of the person conducting the foreign wireless
station, or its denomination, or form of sending out messages,
or frequency, or time of broadcasting, or name of the receiver
or of the applicant, the matter shall be reported to the Minister
of Communications.
Article 30. In the case wherein a contract is required
to be made with a news agency in a foreign country as to the
receiving of foreign broadcasted wireless telegrams to ships
there shall be mentioned in the written application referred
to in paragraph 1 of the preceding article the term of the
said contract and besides a copy of the contract or the
documents testifying the contract shall be attached thereto.
In

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
In case the term of the contract referred to in the
preceding paragraph has been altered the matter shall be
reported to the inister of Co munications.
Article 3l. When the peruission is granted on the
application mentioned in rticle 9 the matter shall be
notified to the applicant.
Article 32. ith regard to foreign broadcasted wireless
telegrans to ships the fee to be notified separately i charged
according to the number of words received.
Article 33. The fee for foreign broadcasted wireless
telegrams to ships is collected from the receiver at the time
of their delivery.
Article 34. The fee for forein broadcasted wireless
telegrams to ships is not remitted or returned even in the
case wherein they failed to attain their object on account
of an error in the way of transmission.
Article 35. Foreign broadcasted wireless telegrams to
ships may not be handled when it is deened to obstruct the
handling of general telegrams or when it is deemed necessary
to do so owing to the condition of the equipment of the
wireless stations.
Article 36. hen a person desires to discontinue the
receipt of foreign broadcasted wireless telegrams to ships he
shall apply to that effect to the Minister of Communications
through the telegraph office concerned whence those telegrams
are delivered.
Additional Rules.
Article 37. This Ordinance takes effect from January
1, 1934.
The Communications Department Ordinance No. 70, Regulations
Relating to Foreign Wireless Telegrams, of July 19l3, is
abolished.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
abolished.
With regard to foreign wireless telegrams sent out
prior to the enforcement of this ordinance the former rules
still aply.
Article se. Such sanctions, permissions, etc., given in
accordance with the provisions or the porein ireless Telegraph
Regulations previous to the enforcement of this ordinance, for
which there are corresponuin provisions in this ordinance,
shall be regarded as havin been iven under tiis ordinance.
(Ministry of Conmunications Crdinance No. 52,
December 1935)
This ordinance takes effect from February 1, l936.
The fees for forein broeccest wireless telerams at
the time previous to the enforcement of this ordinance, which
have not been paid, shall be paid in currency to the telegraph
offices from which they were delivered within twenty days from
the day when this ordinance takes effect.
Deposits shall not be returned until after the fees
mentioned in the preceding paragraph have been paid.
In case the telegra h fees are not duly paid within
the period mentioned in paragranh two deposits shall be forfeited
and any shortage collected. A surplus, if any, shall be
returned to the depositor.
●

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no.
to despatch
no. 2925 of May 5, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Regulations Relating to International
Radio Telegrams.
Ordinance No. 5l of the Ministry of Communications
issued on December 29, 1935.
Article 1. International radio telegrams shall
be classiried into two kinds as follows:
1. Radio tele rams to foreirn countries;
2. Radio telegrams from forein countries.
Article 2. Radio telegrams to forein countries
signify teleraphic messapes to be despatched daily
throughout the year by news agencies, corporate juridi-
cal persons established with the permission of the
Minister of Communications, which broadcast through
wireless telegraphy various kinds of news with the
object of disseminuting it amon forei:n countries
and not to parties or individuals especially designated.
article 3. Radio tele, rams from foreign countries
signify telegraphic information which is broadcast from
wireless telegraph offices abroad and which is received
through especially designated telegraph offices by news
agencies who are corporate juridical persons established
with the permission of the  inister of Communications.
Article 4. Those who wish to despatch radio tele-
grams to foreign countries shall present applications
mentioning therein the following data and obtain per-
mission of the Minister of Communicaticns. This clause
shall also apply to cases where the following data are
altered:
1. places where news is intended to be dis-
seminated;
2. kind of news;
3.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
3. languages to be used in telegram;
4. number of words in telegram;
5. time for broadcasting telegrams.
article 5. In the event the applications in the
foregoint article are ranted, arplicants shall be in-
formed as to the telerrap  rfices for the despatching
of radio telegra.s to forein countries, radio tele-
graph offices, time for requestin the despatch of
telegrams, time for proadcast'n , Torms of broadcasting,
and frequency in kilocycles.
article 6. The : inister of Communications shall,
if deemed necessary, curtail the number of words of
tele raphic messages stipulated in rticle 4, or alter
the data specified in the foregoin: article.
article 7. Radio telegrams to roreign countries
to be despatched through telegraph offices will not be
handled outside official hours.
Article 8. Telegrams recognizable as advertisements
or private messages shall not be handled as radio tele-
grams to foreign countries.
Article 9. The number of words of radio telegrams
to foreign countries shall not exceed the number offi-
cially permitted, except in the cases especially recog-
nized by the telegraph office concerned.
Article 10. The charges for radio telegrams to
foreien countries shall be computed every month and be
communicated

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
communicated to senders not later than the loth of the
following month.
Upon receipt of the communication in the foregoing
paragraph, senders shall pay the charges in the form of
cash to the telerranh office coreerned not later than
the 25th of that month.
Article ll. In case the charges for radio tele-
grams to forei n countries should cene under the pur-
view of one of the followin items, they shall be com-
puted by the day:
if the handling of radio telegrams should
be conmenced, or abolished, or canceled
in the middle of a month;
2.
if the number of radio telegrams should
he altered under the provisions of .rticle
4, or be restricted under the provisions
of article 6, or the treatment of radio
telegrams be suspended under the pro-
visions of either article 12 or Article
19 in the middle of a month;
3.
if the broadcastin of radio telegrams
to foreign countries should not be car-
ried out for more than three days con-
tinuously as stipulated in rticle 20.
Article 12. If the charges for radio telegrams
to foreign countries should not be paid, handlinε shall
be suspended for that period.
If the period of suspension for the handling of
radio telegrams under the provisions of the foregoing
paragraph should exceed thirty days, or the number of
suspensions should exceed three times a year, per-
mission for handling may be canceled.
Article 13. In case permission is canceled under
the provisions of paragraph two of the foregoing article,
or

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
or the despatch of radio telegrams is discontinued
under the provisions of Article 2l, the charges for
the number of words permitted for the remainder of
one year shall be collected at one and the same time,
provided one full year has not elapsed since the
permission was riven.
article 14. Those who wish to receive radio
telegrams desratched fron forein countries shall
present applications mentionin: therein the following
data and obtain nermission of the .inister of Communi-
cations:
1.
the names of wireless telegraph offices
abroad which will broadcast telegrams,
the names of proprietors or owners of
radio stations, call sinals, forms of
broadcastin, frecuency in kilocycles,
and time for broadcastin (Greenwich
standard time);
2. the number of words of telegrams.
In case special agreements must be concluded with
news agencies regarding forein radio telegrams to be
received, the copies of contracts and other documents
proving the conclusion of contracts shall be attached
to the applications mentioned in the foregoing para-
graph.
If there is a desire to alter the above-mentioned
data after obtaining the permission mentioned in para-
graph one, such a desire shall be communiceted to the
Minister of Communications.
Article 15. Regarding radio telegrams from foreign
countries, the charges shall be collected from addressees
according to the number of words of telegrams delivered.
Article 16.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Article 16. The provisions of Article 6 and
Article 10 shall be applied to radio telegrams from
foreign countries.
Article 17. egardin international radio tele-
grams, the charees especially proclaimed shall be
imposed.
Article 18. ven if international radio tele-
grams should fail to attain their object on account
of errors arising during transmission, the charges
for such telegrams shall not be exempted.
article 19. In case the  inister of Communica-
tions deens it necessary for the public interest, or
deems that official and private business is jeopardized,
the handling of internationul radio telegrams may be
suspended, or the permission be canceled.
Article 20. International radio telegrams shall
not be handled when the equipment at the wireless tele-
graph office concerned is deemed inadequate.
Article 2l. If it is desired to discontinue the
despatch of radio telegrams to foreign countries, or
to discontinue the receivin& of radio telegrams from
foreign countries, such a desire shall be communicated
to the Minister of Communications.
Article 22. If the provisions of the present or-
dinance are found to be incomplete in dealing with
affairs or matters in connection with the treatment of
international

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.93)
-6-
international radio telegrams, the provisions relating
to foreign press telegrams in general shall be applied.
Supplementary Rule.
The present ordinance snall e  ut into force on
and after January 1, 1936.
1 .i t

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 7 to despatch
no. 2925 of May 5, 1938,
from the mbassy at Tokyo.
Translation.
Ordinance Relating to Wireless Telegraph and/or
Wireless Telephone Communications of Foreign Warships
in Japanese Territorial Waters.
Imperial Ordinance No. 226
Article 1. foreien men-of-war (being at anchor)
or forein military or naval aircraft, w ich desire to
transmit messapes oy wireless telerap or telephone
within the limits of a naval port or a minor naval
nort or within the radius of not more than 20 kilometres
outside the limits of a naval port or a minor naval
port, shall beforehand obtain permission from the
Commander-in-Chief of the naval port or the Commander
of the minor naval port concerned, stating the system
of apparatus, power, wave-lengths and the proposed time
of transmission: provided, however, that cases of sig-
nals of distress are excepted.
Article 2. Forein men-of-war (bein at anchor)
or foreign military or naval aircraft, which desire to
transmit messages by wireless telegraph or telephone in
the territory outside the districts provided for in the
preceding article, shall conform to the following
regulations:
(i)
Except in cases of signals of distress,
transmission on wave-lengths of 600 and
2400 metres is prohibited.
(ii) Except in cases of using pure continuous
waves, protracted transmission is
prohibited.
(iii)
Transmission shall be suspended imme-
diately upon a request to that effect
being made by a governmental, a military,
or naval wireless telegraph station.
(1v)
In case there is a Japanese warship
lying at anchor in the neighborhood,
the Commanding Officer shall be con-
sulted in the matter of transmission.
Appended revision.
The present Ordinance shall take effect on and
after August 1, 1927.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.93)
ure131938
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and encloses
for his information a copy of despatoh no. 2925 of May 5,
894.70/3
193s and of the enolosures thereto, received from the
Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo submitting information concern-
ing Japanese communioations laws and regulations.
A copy of the ordinance relating to communications
of foreign warships in Japanese territorial waters was
tranemitted to the Navy Department with a copy of des-
pateh no. 602 of August 4, 1927 from the American Embassy
at Tokyo.
Enolosures:
From Tokyo no. 2925,
May 5, 19s8, with
enelosures.
lathm
FE
A
tru
copy
F/FG
TD:FCdeW:RAW:SS
the
gned
6/9/38
nal.
Hoo
gut
ceirs
T
N 18 1939, P

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.92)
June 13 1938.
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Chairman of the Federal Communioations Commis-
sion and encloses for the information of the Legal De-
partment of the Commission a copy of despatoh no. 2925
of May 5, l93s and of the enelosures thereto, received
894.70/3
from the American Embassy at Tokyo submitting information
coneerning Japanese commun1cations laws and regulations.
Enolosures:
From Tokyo no. 2925,
May 5, 1938, w1th
enelosures.
18108
foled
lutue
A true copy of
PE
the signed origgi-
F/FG
nal.
Jus
cuis
TD:FCdOW: RAW: SS
6/8/38

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.94)
June 18 1938.
In reply refer to
TD 894.70/3
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of Commerce and encloses
for his information a copy of despatoh no. 2925 of May 5,
193s and of the enolosures thereto, received from the
894.70/3
Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo submitting information concern-
1ng Japanese communications laws and regulations.
A copy of the ordinance relating to communioations
of foreign warships in Japanese territorial waters was
transmitted to the Department of Commeree with a copy
of despatoh no. 602 of August 4, 1927 from the Amorioan
Embassy at Tokyo.
Enclosures:
From Tokyo no. 2925,
May 8, 1938, w1th
enelosures.
A true copy of
F/FG
1938,
leae
the signnd orig
FI
gun
curs
TD:FCdeW:RAW:SS
6/9/38

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.91)
Voluntary
RECFIVEL
1939 MAR 1 P 3 34
Fd. Com.
g
Vr 1
DIOISION OF
y Dr
Poreu ( Gust Cr)
V.6
Conmerce
Maritime Commission
Civil Aeronautice
the
4利
STATE
No. 48
JAPAN'S INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS
From American Vice Consul
W. Garland Richardson
Tolyo Consulate General Date of Completion: February 14, 1939.
Date of Mailing:
February 15, 1939.
RECCIO,
FALE
C.R.Comron
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
W MAR 141939
Ap
PARTMENT OF STATE
oved:
. R. Cameron,
American Consul General.
OF STATE
A-M/C
File No. 870
WGR/mk/ko
Distribution:
Original and 4 copies to Department
1 copy to Commercial Attache, Tokyo
人
4

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
TABLE OF COUTENTS
Page
Summary
4
INTERNATIONAL CABLES
5
History
5
WIRELESS TELEG
17
history
Japan Wireless Telecraph Company Orpanized
7
Present Internationul Nireless stations..
International Teleconunicatior.s
Company Organized
C
apital and scope to be Increased
8
Asiatic Facilities to oe Increased
9
Wireless Telegraphy and Cable Rates
10
Special Rates
13
Number of messages ent
and Received
by Wireless
13
Total umber of Lessages handled
13
Connectin: Companies Abroad
15
Map of Wireless Comunications
17
INTERNATIONAL TEL PHONE
18
history
18
Wireless Telephone nates
31
Reduction at Christmas and lew fear's
20
Cable Telephone to North China
and Lanchuria
20
SHORT-WAVE RADIO BROADCASTS
21
History
21
Outlines of the First Programs
21
More Powerful Station Begins Operation
23
Outline of the Second Program
23
Number

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
lage
Number of hours of Broadcasting nereased.
25
Outline of Present Broadcasts
25
Analysis of iro rs
Table.
- 1001
selyzee surettt
by Destin tion
30
Table 11. - rercentare of Total cours in
Leeh proadeast Jevot. to
Vriere Sjcte
31
Table IlI.- Distributior. by rereentaces of
Total hours or proadea tin by
Destination und subject .atter. . 32
Table IV. - vistribution by rerce tages of
Total hours or Folitical
Propaganua and ews sroadeasts. . 33
Chart Showing Japanese Short-Wave
Broadeasts ror the onths of Junuury,
February and arch, 1939, Analyzed by
Subject Matter nd by Destinution
35
rime Devoted to rropaganda
30
Destination of Propaganda
36
Short-Wave Receiving Sets Forbidden
in Japan
37
Sources of Information
38

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.94)
-4-
Summary
Japan's international telecommunications,
starting with cables from Larasaki to /ladivostok
and to shan he I7, to torto suel
a stare that rter  peeh
juickly.
The invention une sevelonment or wireless tele-
sraphy ws o eeial,ese
it enapled the Jap mere roverimrmt to peure means
of internutional commurication fre: from roreign con-
trol.
This had been imposeible belore partly be-
cause of the cost or luyin cables tne partly because
of the international competition lor caule richts.
The Government is now tryi in o lar as pos. ible
to encourage the use of i terintior 1 wireless rather
than of the cable, because it receives about half of
the wireless tolls anu much l-ss or to cable tolls.
This is done in order to inerease its own revenues
and to avoid the payment or roreirn exchange in
settlement of balances.
Short-wave radio broade : ts are used by Japan
primarily for proparanda purposes.
The number of
hours of broadcasts have inereased oy fifty percent
since the outbreak of the China Incident, and their
propaganda character hus been more strongly emphasized.
The Japanese Government is not willing, however,
to expose its own people to the effects of propaganda
from other countries, so the possession and operation
of short-wave radio receivin sets is in effect pro-
hibited to private individuals.
INTERNATIONAL

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
INTERNATIONAL CABLES
History
The first internationul cable to Japan was that
which the Great Northern relegrapn Company landed in
Nagasaki in 1871.
This is a Danish company which
constructed an aerial line from Northern Eurone to
Vladivostok by way of Siberia.
in 1871 the cable
was laid from lagusaki to Vladivostoi  ron Nage-
saki to Shanghai (1, , 3).
There are now two cables
in each direction, those between Na asaki and Vludivostok
being 760 and 756 miles respectively und between Naga-
saki and Shanghai 490 und 47& miles respectively (5).
In l9oo the Japallese Government, in. cooperation
with the American-ovmed Jommercial racific Cable Com-
pany, laid a cable between Tokyo and Juam.
Of this
cable the Japanese Govermment oms only the part be-
tween Tokyo und the Ogasawara Islands, a group lying
529 miles south of Yokohama.
This was the beginning
of overseas connections in Japan's teleconmunications
by means of her own lines (1).
The next international cables were completely
under Japanese ownership.
They included that from
Taihoku, the capital of Taiwan, to Foochow and that
from Nagasaki to Shanghai.
The cable from Sasebo, a
naval port on the island of kyushu, not far from Naga-
saki, to Tsingtao was under the joint ownership of the
Japanese and Chinese Governments (3).
In
(1) Numbers refer to sources of information at the
end of this report.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
In addition, there is at present in operation
the land line from Keijo, the capital of Chosen, to
Vladivostok, which connects with the Russian land line
system at the frontier, and the land line from South
Saghalien to North Saghalien, which also connects with
the Russian land line system at the frontier (3).
WIRELESS

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
-7-
WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY
History
The rirst wireless station in Japan was established
in NMay, 190e, at hoshi, chioa profeeture, on the sea-
coast uou sixty ilsstoryo.
1S
year aduitional stetiorr weretoll weu t Csezaki on
the island of Fukae about 7t mil s west or acasaki; at
Shionomisaki, wskavama prere ture, on the seeceest ubout
85 miles south of Osaka; at uncshine, Yama ueli  re-
fecture, on the seacoust about  milus north of snimo-
noseki; und at Otchishi on the seacoust in the extreme
central eastern part of olkaido.
These stations were
intended for omestie comu.icutious  for conuica-
tions with ships at sea, but were net e uipred for inter-
national comunications (2).
International wireless comuaunication started in
Japan in 1915, when messages were exchanged between the
Otchishi station and Petropavlovsk i. lanchatka.
1916 the Funabashi station, about 10 miles east of Tokyo,
succeeded in exchanging messages with Hawaii, and in
1920-21 the Iwaki wireless station at haranomachi, Fuku-
shima prefecture, about l30 iles north northeast of
Tokyo, was constructed to take charge of wireless com-
munication with North and South America (2,3).
Japan Wireless Telegraph Company Organized
In April, 1925, a semi-ofricial company was organized
to control all international wireless telegraph communica-
tions.
This company, the Japan Wireless Telegraph Com-
pany (Nippon Denki Denshin habushiki Kaisha) was organized
with

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.95)
-ε-
with a capital of 20,000,000, o1 wnich 2,300,000
was supplied by the Government in the rorm of its Iwaki
wireless station (3).
Present internationul Wireluss stations
There are nor four t thos, we tor ser
1:1
two ror peceivin, : len  us ror internntional
wireless communicntions.
The reeuivin station ut
Fuuokn-mura, rus-rm,  a rerveture, .bout
fifteen miles west or Tohvo, wis opened or mareh Sl,
1927, and the receivin statior ut Yokkaichi,  ie pre-
fecture, abou twenty miles southwest of Na oya, was
opened on karch 31, 192f.
he transmittin station
at Yosami-mura, Aichi prerecture, about fifteel. miles
southeast of Nagoya, was opened oi march 31, 1929, und
that at Oyama, Tochiri prefecture, apout fortyfive iles
north of Tokyo, was opened on December 20, 193c (3).
International Telecomaunications Company Organized
On March 12, 1938, the Japan Wireless Telegraph
Company was reorganized, absorbing the International
Telephone Company of Japan and assumin
the name of the
International Telecommunications Company (Kokusai Denki
Tsushin Kabushiki Kaisha).
The capital wes simul-
taneously increased to ¥25,000,000.
Capital and Scope to be Increased
It is reported that a bill will be introduced in
the current session of the Diet providin for increasing
the capital of the International Telecommunications Com-
pany to ¥100,000,000.
The proposed revision draft
calls

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.95)
-9-
calls for authorizine the enlarged coneern to lay
submarine cables throu hout the yen bloc rerion (Japan,
Manchuria, and occupied portions or China) in coopera-
tion with the murien he rm m el ephoe Jou
pany, the ortt ema le rupt  plepnone Jompany,
and the Central hin leeurie cormo tion, in order
to perfect comnunicetion racilities in the sast asia
bloc.Th exist1 oy to lay
cables only in waters around Janan proper (o).
The increase capital in to e raised s ollows:
(1) The present shareholuers will be asked to
subscribe for the now shares to the extent of ¥2s,000,000
on a parity basis.
(z) The assets or t prent any, which are
appraised at ¥35,000,000, wil1 be accepted in lieu of
capital runds.
(3) The overment proposes to subseribe the remain-
ing ¥15,000,000 (6)。
The enlarged company will, it i. understood, be
granted such privileges as are enjoyed y other semi-
governmental concerns, such as a government cuarantee
of a minimun aividend payment o: six percent, prefer-
ential rights to dividend payments on shares held by
the public, and the authorization to issue debentures
not exceeding three times the paid-up capital (6).
There will also, presumably, be a provision that
only Japanese subjects may be shareholders.
Asiatic Facilities to be Increased (13)
It is reported that eleven new telegraphic circuits
are
9

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.96)
-10-
are to be established to help hondle the growing traffic
between Japan and Chosen, Manehuriu, und Horth hina.
The Communications epartment plans to arrange them
during the currert fiseal yoar, a din Lareh s1, 1939,
and expects ts to ree irasly te transuis-
sion ti.e o r uirod.
To horea ther will oe ad e cireuits from ronyo
to Keijo, Iro: Ooahu to rusan,   ron Fukuoke to heijo.
At present therer
reless
1 ht cle
circuits.
Tc kanchuria ther ill e mdieu circuits Prom
Tokyo to Mukden, Trom Lokyo to Laire, From Osahta to
Mukden, from Os ka to D iren, Fr nobe to Deiren, rrom
Fukuoka to Mukden, m rom ukuone to Harbir. Currently
there are seven irel ss n vipht cable cireuits.
To China there will be  Tokyo-Pientsin line. At
present there are thre wireless and three cable connec-
tions with China.
Wireless Telegraphy and Cable Rates
The rates per word at present in effect, based on
the conversion rate of ene ol: frane cquals 39 sen for
simple messages und lle sen for replay pai: messages,
are as follows (7):
Asia
至
fr.
Aden
3.76
5.45
British North Borneo
2.26
3.28
Burma .
2.22
3.23
Ceylon
2.13
3.10
French Indo-China
1.82
2.64
Hongkong
0.93
1.35
India
2.07
3.00
Iran (Persia)
2.25
3.27
Iraq
2.32
3.37
Macao
1.10
1.60
.alaya
10

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
fr.
Malaya (Singapore and Fenang)
1.80
2.61
Netherlands Indies
2.20
3.19
Palestine
2.31
3.35
Philippine Islands (Manila)
1.31
1.90
Russia in Asia
0.37
0.55
Siam
7
Syria and Lebanon
。27
5.30
Transjordania
2.41
3.50
America (North)
Canada: Alberta, Manitoba, und
Saskatchewan
.50
3.70
Vancouver and Victoria
2.39
3.47
Cape Breton, New brunswick,
Nova Scotia, Ontario, ¿uebec
.60
3.78
Mexico
2.76
4.00
United States:
Northern California
2.10
3.05
Southern California
2.21
3.21
Arizona, Idaho, Oreon, Utah,
Washington
2.01
3.21
Colorado, Lansas, imontana,
Nebraska, New Mexico, North
Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming
2.30
3.34
Alabama, Arkansas, Iílinois,
Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky,
Louisiana, Michiran, Minne-
sota, mississippi, Missouri,
Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee,
Texas, Wisconsin
2.42
3.52
New York, District of Colum-
bia, Connecticut, Delaware,
Florida, Georgia, Maine,
Massachusetts, Maryland, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, North
Carolina, rennsylvania,
Rhode Island, South Carolina,
Vermont, Virginia, West
Virginia
2.55
3.70
America (Central)
Costa Rica
3.10
4.50
Guatemala
3.10
4.50
Honduras
3.10
4.50
Honduras, British
3.46
5.02
Nicaragua
3.10
4.50
Panama: Almirante, Bocas del Toro
3.64
5.28
Other Places
3.10
4.50
Salvador
3.10
4.50
America (South)
Argentine
2.76
4.00
Bolivia
3.79
5.50
Brazil
3.03
4.40
Chili: Bories Raper, etc.
3.45
5.00
Other Places
3.03
4.40
Colombia

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
fr.
Colombia
4.05
5.88
Ecuador
4.34
6.29
Guiana, British
4.48
6.50
Guiana, French
5.14
7.46
Paraguay
3.03
4.40
Peru
3.65
5.30
Surinam
3.32
5.26
Uruguay
3.51
5.10
Venezuela
4.05
3.88
Africa
Algeria, Tangier, Funis
2.38
3.45
Belgian Congo
3.76
5.45
Sgypt . .
41
3.50
French Somaliland
3.67
5.33
French West Africa:
Dahomey and Ivory Coast
4.05
5.88
French Guinea
3.69
5.36
Mauritania, Niger,
Senegal
3.26
4.73
Italian Somaliland
2.82
4.10
Kenya and Uganda
3.96
5.74
Madagascar
3.89
5.65
Morocco
2.53
3.67
Northerr Rhodesia
3.37
4.89
Nyassaland
3.79
5.50
Portuguese East Africa:
Inhambane and Lourencc Marques
3.63
5.27
Mozambique。.
3.98
5.77
South Africa and South Vest Africa
3.45
○。00
Southern Rhodesia.
3.16
4.59
Tanganyika:
Dar-es-salaam
3.96
5.74
Other Places
3.99
5.79
Zanzibar
4.10
5.95
Europe
Russia in Europe
0.48
0.70
All Other Countries
2.38
3.45
Oceania
Hawaii:
Oahu
1.73
2.51
Other Places
2.20
3.19
Australia and Tasmania
2.91
4.23
New Zealand
3.19
4.63
West Indies
Aruba, Bonaire, Curacao, Porto Rico
3.62
5.26
Barbados and Jamaica
4.05
5.88
Cuba
2.82
4.09
Haiti
3.98
5.78
Special

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.97)
-13-
Special Rates
The foregoine are the pasic rates ror plain
language ordinary messages.
The rates lor code
messages are sixty nereent or the vasic rates.
Foreign Governet r ures
sccepten ut che half
the basie rat
pae pepre tively. Urrent
messages are douole the pasie rate ur the code rate
respectively.
seferrel essares are accepted only
in plain language ut halr h vasie pate, ana letter
telegrans, whether ni ht or dey, are accepted only
in plain language at one third the basic rate (7).
Number of Messages Sent and Received by Wireless
The number of messages sent and received by
wireless for the five years endin maren 31, 1937,
was as follows (3):
Year
Despatched
Arrived
Total
1933
50,403
22,444
72,847
1934
53,999
26,110
ε0,109
1935
63,856
30,647
94,503
1936
41,112
25,418
66,530
1937
49,404
31,648
81,052
Total Number of messages Handled
The total number or messages sent and received,
includin those sent anu received by cable, by wire-
less, those handled by ships, and the exchange or
relayed telegrams, for the five years ending March 31,
1937, was as fo1lows (3):
Nationality

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.97)
-14-
Nationality
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
China。
776,228
565,599
554,731
578,494
560,916
U.S.A.
292,644
306,561
310,272
304,873
337,079
Britain
186,014
185,006
10
.04,201
14,339
India
226,1
30,55
250,054
252,864
358,117
hongkong
71,201
86,761
00,07
83,478
6,257
Netherlands
Indies ..
116,961
115,200
104,620
97,+45
104,753
U.S.S.R.
35,161
30,713
27,120
31,445
29,962
Australia
74,225
76,820
86,217
97,227
80,595
Strts.Settl.
44,427
65,475
75,699
66,430
79,908
Philippines.
48,251
52,985
61,28
69,080
77,840
France .
43,037
41,695
40,238
42,690
49,480
Germany
70,324
71,822
67,267
70,579
83,391
Egypt
35,465
38,713
49,419
46,595
43,796
Indo-China..
9,474
10,432
10,165
13,375
13,264
Hawaii
9,201
7,987
7,984
ε,001
10,862
Canada .....
17,582
16,037
13,998
15,244
21,470
Mexico .....
1,724
2,343
3,498
4,652
5,387
S. America.
19,946
31,553
43,879
49,515
68,633
S. Africa ..
28,403
27,929
29,842
40,073
Total, incl.
others
2,180,027 2,143,463,200,264 2,309,966 2,462,124

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.95)
-14-a-
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Competition between Wireless and Cable
On wireless mensat betwe ar and the
United states, the uapme loveurment, tnroueh its
subsidiary compaly, reeeivos bout the halr or the
tolls. On cable messures, the vapunese Government
receives vbeut ou rifth.
ituntior h led
the Japanese postel uuthoritie:, who control the
receiving ofrices for internatioual wireless and
cable messages, to exert considerable pressure upon
senders to specify thet their messares be sent by
wireless rather thn cable, iu in some cases to
order Japanese rirms to route their messares by wire-
less。
It is understood that interested parties have
placed this atter befere the Embassy ().
End of Strictly Confidential

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
Connecting Companies Abroad
The foreign companies and governmental agencies
having connections wit! the International Telecommunica-
tions Company are as follows (3):
Country
Direct Circuit to
Forei p Co. or Agency
From Tokyo
N. and S. America
San Franciseo
n... ommunications,
Mackay Radio and Telecraph
Mexico
Mexico City
Mexican Telegraph
Administration
South America
Buenos Aires)
fransradio Internetional
nio de caneiro)
Cia. nadiotelerraphica
orasileira
Indo-China
Saigon
Government-General of
Indo-China
Norway, Sweden,
Oslo
orwepian Telegraph
Denmark
Administration
Russia in Europe
Moscow
U.S..R. Telegraph
Administration
Switzerland
Geneva
Cie. Radio Suisse
Italy
Rome
Cie. Italo Radio
Chile
Santiao
Transradio Chilena Cia.
de Rediotelecrafica
North China
rekin.
hahoku Electric Com-
munication Co.
From Osaka
China
Shanghai, Tientsin
Chinese Radio Telegraph
Administration
British India,
Burma, Ceylon,
Indian Radio and Cable
Afghanistan
Bombay
Company
Europe and Africa
London
Cable and Wireless Ltd.
Germany
Derlin
Deutsche Reichspost
Ministerium
Europe
Warsaw
ministre des Postes et
des Telegraphs
Europe, orocco,
raris
Cie. Radio France
and French African
Colonies
Philippines
Manila
Radio Corporation of
America
Netherlands Indies Batavia
Netherlands Indian Tele-
graph Administration
Europe, West Indies, Amsterdam
Administration of Posts,
and Surinam
Telegraphs andTelephones
Siam
Bangkok
Administration of Posts
and Telegraphs
Near East, Arabia, Beirut
Radio Orient, S.A.
and Egypt
Map
16

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
Map of Wireless Communications
There is enclosed herewith a map published by
the International Telecommunications Company showing
Japan's international systen or wireless comnunica-
tions in June, 193t.
17

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.96)
圖統系信通綿無
-17-
The International System of Wireless Co
30
30
60
90
120
150
11
12
12
10
2
10
2
10
2
3
9
3
8
Pm
6
5
am
8
7
am
5
4
E
Oslo
60
0
mlang
CHINA
TeDemh TA EGHANI
30
YRIA
IRAJ
STAN
INDIA
Laspalmas)
EDJAZ
Bomb
0000km
SLAMND
CHINA
Mania
CHYDON
R
8000km
Stankgrille
Colombo
9000km
SUMATRA
BORNBOCELHBRS
10000km
(Batavia)
Salisbury
C
Tananarive
A Lourendo Marques
30
AUSTRALIA
12000km
Cape Town.
16000km
13000km
14000km
15000km
NEW ZEAL
Direct Telegraph Circuits
60°
-Direct Telephone Circuits
Connecting Poreign Telegraph Circuits
-Connecting Poreign Telephone Circuits
Distance from Japan
Telegraph Aval lable
Telegraph & Telephone Available
THE INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNCATONS CO., LTD., TOKYO.
JUNE, 1938

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.93)
統奈信通綿無際國
onal System of Wireless Communications
120
150
180°
150
120
90°
60°
30°
11
11
12
122
10
2
10
2
10
2
3
3
8
am
8
P.m.
2
8
pm.
7
β
5
7
5
6
5
ZORTH
60
AMERICA
ang
Mantreal
San Prançisco
New York
30
pnotulu
City
Paramaribo
Bogota
SOUTH
9000km
Rio de Jandrg
10000km
AMERICA
11000km
AUSTRALIA
12000km
1000km
30°
13000km
15000m
0000
NEW ZEALAND
0
8
60°
月六年三十和昭
社會式株信通氣電際國
17A

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.92)
-18-
INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE
History
on December 24, 193z, the Internetione1 wireiess
Telephone Coapeny or J n, L it: (r ou: Denwa
Kise ore,,o
whieh ,ou,ou I u soon  te
blished, the company surtei the construction or  trtns-
mission s ion t i- ur, It reki eeture, rtout
thirty-iiv ie nort  lo, ani recervin s tion
at Komuro-mura, stitame prorecture, about twenty-three
miles nortnwest of Tokyo ().
on June 20, 194, r: diotelepuone service ws Torame1ly
openeu tetween Japtn anu iwanrvi 
between Japn un the Fni ines
Japen and Jev in Jctouer, en: tetweer pon onl Ameriet
in becenber or trt yer. rvice ws initit te tetween
Japan ana Great Britain anu tetneen J pn  n. rerneny in
March, l9oo, anu in 19o6 uetween Jeyan  na Sntnghui,
Capetown, Rio de Jeneiro, and French Inco-Chine (9).
As mentioneu in a previous section oi this report,
on Merch 12, 1938, the International Wireles. Telephone
company of Jepan was ebsorveu uy une Internationtl
Telecommunications Company.
Wireless Telephone Rates
The rates at present in effect for international
telephone messeges are as follows (1o):
Place
Rates for first  linutes
Daily except
Saturday
Saturday
Europe.
Balearic Islands . . . .
¥107.00
¥67.00
Belgium.
83.00
43.00
Czechoslovakia.
87.00
47.00
Danzig.
80.00
40.00
Denmark.
83.00
43.00
Estonia
8

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.94)
-19-
Place
Rates for Iirst  minutes
Daily except
Saturday
Saturdey
Europe
Estonia
180.00
40.00
Finland
99.00
09.00
France
48.00
Germany
Gitrelter
00.00
Great ritnin
4
Hungary
06.0
Irish Free State.
42.00
Italy
40.00
Latvia.
43.00
Litnuania
1.
Luxemburg
41.00
Netherlands
40.00
Norwey.
91.00
01.00
Poland.
7.0
47.00
Fortugal.
110.00
70.00
Rumanis
101.00
61.00
Spein
100.00
60.00
Sweden.
90.0
00.0
Switzerland
40.
Vatican City. . .
58.30
Yugoslavi:, Eustern
99.20
09.00
Western
9L.00
Africa
Canery Islanus
119.00
119.00
Ceuta, Spanish Morocco
110.00
113.00
Union of South Africa.
120.00
10.30
Anerica
Deily except
Sunday
sunday
United States:
Seattle, san Bncisco, Los
Angeles, etc. . .
172.00
¥54.00
Kansas City, benver, Dellas,
Omane, etc..
00.00
09.00
Chicago, St. Louis, vetroil,
New Orleans, etc.
07.00
64.00
New York, Washington, etc.
90.00
69.00
Canada:
Vancouver, etc.
72.00
54.00
Edmonton, Winnipeg, etc.
80.00
09.00
Ontario (except S.E. pert)
87.00
64.00
Montreal, Ott-wa, etc.
95.00
69.00
Mexico
102.00
84.00
Cuba
110.00
79.00
Brazil
182.00
182.00
Argentine: Buenos Aires.
100.00
100.00
Other Places.
107.00
107.00
Paraguay
114.00
114.00
Uruguay
19

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.90)
-20-
Place
Rates for first 3 minutes
Daily except
Sunday
Sunday
Uruguey
107.00
107.00
Chile
100.00
70.00
Asia
China, Shangai..
Philip ine Islema. :
Manile, ete..
Tarlte, etc..
Baguio, etc. .
4。
Netherlands Indies:
Bandoeng, atavie, Semerang,
Soerabcje, to. ..
00.00
00.00
Medh,n,
.
French Inuo-Cnine .. . . ..
00.00
Siam, Fengkok.
00.00
Manchuria: Hsinnine, Deilen,
Mukden, Heroin.
7.00
1..
Reduction at Cumistnas and New Yeer's
At Christmas ena New Year's e speciel reuuction
is made for international tele: hone calls.
sre the same es the sunaty  te or t Ittl 1. (i.).
Cable Telepnone to North Chine na Meneauri
A airect telepnone service connectin ray, unden,
Tientsin, ana Fukuoka will be openeu ror the puviic on
or about February 20, 19o9, following the com Letion or
a J&pan-"Mancl.oukuo" unuersea cable (1:).
The tests carried out between the lekno Teleynone
Orfice in Tokyo end other oi rices in " encnouxuo" some
time ago are reported to have proved setisiactory. It
is stated that the Comnunications Department intenas to
extend its Japan-Manchoukuo telephone servic es to sinking
in the near future (12).

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
SHORT-WAVE RADIO BROADCASTS
History
The Broadcasting Corporation of Japan (Nippon Hoso
Kyokai) on June 1, 1935, inaugurated a daily one hour
short-wave broadcast, directed mainly to Hawaii and the
Pacific Coast of North America. At first both the weve
longth and the time or broadcasts were changed from time
to time for experimental purposes to secure the best
reception in the United States. Programs were also changed
frequently and every effort was made to outain publicity
regarding the programs in foreign newspapers end radio
magazines, and & year and & helf after starting the broad-
casts, regular insertions in foreign periodicals regarding
Japanese overseas short-wave redio broadcasts were being
carried. (4)
However, a larger auaience was desired than coula be
reached by broadcasts directed only &t Hawaii ana the Pacific
Coast. As a result of the experimental work carried on
for a year and a half, there wes no aifiiculty in starting,
on January 1, l937, daily broadcasts o1 one hour each
directed at Europe, the eastern part of North America,
South America, and Java and the Streits Settlements.
A twenty-two kilowatt broadcasting station was used, and
these broadcasts were made in both Jεpenese and English.
In addition, French, German, end Spenisn were used when
appropriate. (4)
Outlines of the First Programs (4)
I. TO EUROPE
Broadcasting Time: 4:30-5:30 a.m. Tokyo Time
7:30-8:30 p.m. Western European Time
8:30-9:30 p.m. Central European Time
9:30

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.91)
-22-
Broadcasting Time: 9:30-l0:30 p.m. European Russian Time
7:30-8:30 p.1. Northern A1rica Time
Contents or Program:
News in Englisn
10 minutes
usic
40 minutes
Announcemente, et.
.inutes
II. TO BOSE. RIC
Enlo
brouacasting Time:
6:-7:Totme
-r ein
-7:211
Contents o1 Pro rem:
News in Je: : nese
10 minutes
news in tn lis.
Hautes
usic
linutes
Announcements, etc.
10 minutes
III. TO HAII AND H ESTERN IA OF NORT
ARIC
Broaacasting Time:
2:00-3:00 p.m. Tokyo Time
9:00-10:00 p.m.Facific Stendard 1ime
6:30-7:30pm. Havaii Tine
Contents of Program:
News in Japenese
10 minutes
News in English.
10 minutes
Music, lectures, entertainment . . . 30 minutes
Announcements, etc..
.. 10 minutes
IV. TO THE NETHERLANDS INDIES, PHILIPPINES, AND STRAITS
SETTLEMENTS
Broadcasting Time:
11:00 p.m.-12:00 midnight Tokyo Time
9:00-10:00 p.m. French Indo-Chine Time
9:30

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
- 23 -
Broadoasting Time:
9:30-l0:30 p.m. Netherlands East Indies Time
10:00-11:00 p.m.Philippines Time
Contents of program:
News in Japanese . . . . . . . . lo minutes
News in English.
. . . . . . . . . l0 minutes
Music .
. . . . . 30 minutes
Announcements, etc.. . . . . . . 10 minutes
From April 1, 1937, news was broadcast to Europe
daily using French and Germen on al ternate days, in addi-
tion to the daily English broadcasts, and from August 1,
1937, news was broadcast to South America in Spenish on
Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Starting on August 23,
1937, after the outbreak of the China Incident, news was
broadcast in Chinese to the Netherlanus East Indies, the
Philippines, the Straits Settlements, and China.
More Powerful Station Begins Operation
On May l0, 1937, broaacasting began fron a fifty
kilowatt station instead of twenty-two kilowatts as there-
tofore.
Outline of the Second Program.
On July 1, 1937, a revised schedule of broadcests
was put into effect. The revised schedule, including
the modification made on August 23, 1937, when Chinese
language broadcasts were added, was as follows:
I. TO EUROPE
Broadcasting Time:
5:00-6:00 a.m. Tokyo Time
Contonts of Program:
5:00 a.m. Opening announcement
5:05 a.m. News in English
5:15
23

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.92)
- 24 -
Contents of Program:
5:15 &.m. Music, lectures, entertainment
5:c0 .n. News in German
5:40 .m. Mews in French
o: . iosin nnouneement,th d anese
netionel tntnem
:u0 . Close lown
II. TC SOUTI
AMERICDER  
Broaacasting Time:
6:30-7:30 a.m. Toky0 Tme
Contents or Progrem:
6: 30 a.m. Cpenin tnnouncement
6:  a.. News in n lish
6:40 e.n. music, lectures, entertainment
7:0o a.m. (Sunday, Moneay, Mednesuty, Friuay)
lusic, lectures, entertainment
7:05 a.m. (Tuesuay, Thursday, sturuay) News in
J&penese
7:15 a.m. (Suniay, Ionday, eunesdey, Friday)
News in Spenish
7:25 a.m. Ciosing ennouncement and Japanese
national tnthem.
7:30 a.m. Close down
III. TO HAWAII AND THE WESTERN PART OF NORTH AMERICA
Broadcasting Time:
2:30-3:30 p.m. Toky0 Time
Contents of Program:
2:30 p.m. Opening announcement
2:35 p.m. News in English
2:45

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.95)
-25 -
Contents of Program:
2:45 p.m. Music, lectures, entertainment
3:15 p.m. News in Japanese
:25 p.m. Closing announcement enu playin of
Jnest t. on antiem
IV. TO MLE NETHERLALIDO INDIES,P ILIP. I LO, HD SIRAIIS
SETTLEMENTS
Broadcasting Time:
10:00-11:. F1
Contents of Program:
1o:oc p.m. Openin imouncement
10:Co p.m. News in Jepenese
l0:lo p.m. usic, lectures, entertainment
10:: . News in nlish
Number o1 Hours o1 Broaacasting Increased
As the China Incident progressed, .urtner eilorts
were felt necessary to counteract Chinest propt ganda
abroad. One or the methods adoptea was that of increasing
the number of hours of broaacasting by two nours daily. (4)
The European broedcast was increasea by tirty
minutes. The broadcast to South Anerict ana the eastern
part of North America wes modifieu uy making its objective
solely South Americ& and &t the seme time two thirty-
minute periods directed at the eastern parts or North
America were inaugurated. The broadcast directed at
China and the South Seas was also lengtnened oy tnirty
minutes.
Outline of Present Broadcasts
The general outline of the present programs is as
follows:
I. TO EUROPE
2

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.91)
-26-
I. TO EUROPE
Stations:
JLG - 7, 285 kilocycles (41.1e meters)
JuJ - 11,800 kilocycles (20.42 meters)
brotucasting Time:
1:30-6:
7:00-9:
8:c0-l0:o0 p.n. Centre1 suropean 1ime
Contents or Program:
4: eioucemen
4: a.n. News in Engiisn
4:4s ... usic, lectures, enterttinment
5:00 e.m. News in German
5:lo a.m. lusic, lectures, entertt inment
o: a.. ene in irnch
5:40 a.m. News in Jp: nese
o:oo u.m. closing ennouncement n Jnuse
national enthem
6:00 b.m. close uown
II. TO SOUTH AMERICA
Stations:
JZJ - 11,o00 kilocycles (20.42 neter0)
JZI - 9,535 kilocycles (c1.46 meters)
Broadcasting Time:
6:30-7:30 a.m. Tokyo Time
5:0-6:30 p.m. Argentine Tine
6:30-7:30 p.m. Brazilian Time
Contents of Program:
6:30 a.m. Opening ennouncement
6: 35 a.m. (Monday, Wednesday, Friaay) News in
Portuguese
6:35

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.91)
-27-
Contents of Program:
6: 35 a.m. (Tuesday, Thursuay, turuay) News in
Spanish
6:so a.m. (sunuay) usic, lectures, entertainment
é:4 a.m. usie, L ctares, ntertt inment
7:  am. iosinmouncement and Jnese
natron.ntiem
III. TO T. ATER.. FAT OF ORT RIC.
Station:
JZJ - 1i,o00 kilocycle: (2o.+z meters)
Bro: ucasting li e
10;-10;30 T
8:00-8:30 p..  7:00-7:0 .. stern
Stenderd Time
Contents o1 Program:
10;00 a.m. Opening announcement
10:05 a.m. News in English
10:15 a.in. usic, lectures, entertainment
10:25 t.m. closing announcement, Je enese
nationt1 anton
l0:30 a.n. close down
9:00 p.m. Openin &nnouncement
9:05 p.1. News in Japenese
9:15 p.n. Music, lectures, entertainment
9:25 p.m. Closing announcenent, Japanese
national anthem
9:30 p.n. Close down
IV.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.87)
-28-
IV. TO HAWAII AND THE WESTERN PART OF NORTH AMERICA
Station:
JZJ - 11, B00 kilocycles (20.43 meters)
Broadcasting Tine:
2: -:c0 1. u. Tokyo Time
115
1me
Contents oi Frogrum:
2:c p.. 0 ehin
mouncement
2:4o p.. usic, rectures, entertaimaent
: .. Hew in Jnese
o:le p.n. Lettere iro ome or mus ic
3;2o . losin :mounement, Je ese
N tione
tnem
0. 1
V. TO THE HETHORLANDS LNDID, LIH: LE, E SRHIS
SETILMENTS
Stations:
First Iransaission: J2J - li,oo kilocycles
(24.42 meters)
Secona Trensmission: JVi - 7,olu kilocycles
(39.s neters)
Special Transmission: JOAn - s7o hilocycles
(34s meters)
Broadcastin Time:
10:00-11:0 p.m. Toky0 Time
9: 00-10:30 p.m. Shanghai, Hongkong, and
Philippine Time
8:20-9:50 p.m. Singapore Time
6:30-8:00 p.m. British Indian Standard Time
11:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. Sydney and Melbourne
Contents

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.90)
-29-
Contents o1 Broadcast: First and Second Transmissions
10:o0 p.m. Opening announcement in English and
Jepenese
10:05 p.m. News in Jtpanese
10:le p.m. Music, lectures, enterteinment
Lectures
First ronsisslon,  nglien, Uinese,
Frenee, or sutch
m iseion, in n Lisr, Chinese,
or Frehe.
tin: When there is  tain in Duton
by tne First ransmission,
Frenen tel. is troucte siaui-
trneousiy ty the secot. rens-
dission
10:45 p. a. News in Chinese
10:oo 1.n. Enterteinment
11:05 p.m. First Transmission: Mews in uten
Second Transmission: Hos in French
11: lo p. a. Entertainment
11:25 p.m. Ciosing &nnouncement, Jupunese
national anthein
11:30 p.m. Close aown
Contents of Broadcast: Special Transmission
10:24 p.m. Opening announcement in Chinese
10:25 p.m. News in English
10:35 p.m. Lectures in English, Chinese, or French
10:45 p.m. News in Chinese
10:55 p.m. Close down
Analysis of Progrems
There are shown in the following tables the r esults
of

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.92)
- 30-
of an analysis made oy the reporting officer of the advance
programs for the months or Januury, February, and Marcn,
1939, published by the Japan procucusting Corpor: tion.
Table I shows the preliminary creauown or total nours
devoted to uroadcastin uur in th t: ree months ant iyzed
by destination unu subjettter.
is the  asic tat le iron
which the other tables  the ctucteu.
Table II shows the total numter or  ours, exelusive or
announcements, uirected t e: tstinution n tueercentege
oi time in eech uroadctt aevotei to various sucjects.
1
table is useful ror giving & clue to the purposes te.ina
the broadcasts to the different perts oi the worla.
Table III shows the distribution oy percentages of the
total hours or broeucastin excluain vamcunsements y pestina-
tion ana subject matter. It is user l s s wi. te rel tive
importance or tne dirferent subject vis--vis the vurious &reas
of the world.
Table Iv is devoted to the anaiyses o. airect  olitical
propaganda and of news.
The chart shows grapnically the arithmetic dete coapiled
in Table I.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.93)
-31-
TABLE I
TOTAL HOURS OF BROADCASTS IN JANUARY, FEBRUARY, AND MARCH, 1939, ANALYZED
BY SUBJECT MATTER AND BY DESTINATION
(Compiled from published programs of the Japan Broadcasting Corporation)
Objective
Total
Culture
Music
Travel
Prop.
News
Misc.
Announcements
Hours
Europe
270
6
61 20
C
32 40
120
14
30
South America 180
40'
43 20
2
294
30
Eastern
North
y0
50'
20 30
1 30
4 50'
30
2 20
30
America
Western
North
90
1 201
2220
1
13
15
America,
Hawaii
China and
South Seas
270
40
39
元
Total
900
.3
1630
1330
15420355
40 5C
135

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.97)
-32-
TABLE II
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL HOURS IN EACH BROADCAST DEVCTED TO VARIOU  EOTS
(For data, see Table I)
Objective
Total Hours Exclud-
Pereentage of breadcastin time devoted to:
ing Announcements
Travel
Political
Miscel-
Total
Culture
usic
Fropa-
Fropa-
News
laneous
sands
ganda
%
Europe
00.00
5.83
100.00
South
America .
150
37.33 12.00
100.00
Eastern
North
60
1.39
34.17
8.00
.05
50.00
3.89
100.00
America
Western
North
America,
75
20.15
40.00
9.11
100.00
Hawaii
China and
South Seas . . . . .
240
6.28
10.25
7
30.05
50.00
1.95
100.00
Total
765
1.24
24.25
1.81
20.17
46.54
5.99
100.00
Percentage of broadcasting time devoted to litical
Iropaganda and News
Europe
% 63.61
South America
57.11
Eastern North America
58:05
Western North America, Hawaii
59.44
China and South Seas
80.55

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
-33 -
TABLE III
DISTRIBUTION BY PERCENTAGES OF TOTAL HOURS OF BROADCASTING
(EXCLUDING
ANNOUNCEMENTS
BY DESTINATION AND SUBJECT MATTER
(For data, see Table I)
Objective
Percentage of total broadcasting time devoted to:
Travel
Political
Miscel-
Time
Culture
Music
Propa-
Propa-
News
Laneous
ganda
ganda
%
%
%
%
Europe .
31.37
0.78
.02
0.78
4.27
15.69
1.83
South America . . . .
19.61
0.09
5.66
0.31
3.88
7.32
2.35
Eastern
North America . . . .
7.85
0.11
2.66
0.20
0.63
3.92
0.31
Western North
America, Hawaii .
9.80
0.17
2.79
0.22
1.1
3.22
0.89
China and
South Seas.
31.37
0.09
5.10
0.31
.57
15.69
0.61
Total .
100.00
1.24
24.25
1.81
20.17
46.54
5.99
Political Propa-
anda and News
Europe
19.96
South America
11.20
Eastern North America
4.55
Western North America, Hawaii
5.73
China and South Seas.
25.26
Total
66.71

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
-34 -
TABLE
IV
DISTRIBUTION BY PERCENTAGES OF TOTAL HOURS OF
POLITICAL PROPAGANDA AND NEWS
BROADCASTS
(For data, see Table I)
Political Propaganda
Objective
Political Propaganda
News
and News
Percent.
Percent.
Percent.
Percent.
Percent.
Percent.
of total
of total
of total
of
total
of total
of total
broadcasts
political
broadcasts
news
broadcasts
political
excluding
propaganda
excluding
excluding
propaganda
announce-
announce-
announce-
and news
ments
ments
ments
broadcasts
Europe
4.27
21.17
15.69
33.71
19.96
29.92
South America
3.88
12.22
7.32
15.72
11.20
16.78
Eastern
North America
0.63
3.13
3.92
.43
4.55
6.83
Western North
America, Hawaii
1.91
8.96
3.92
ε.43
5.73
8.59
China and
South Seas
9.57
47.52
15.69
33.7
26.20
37.88
Total
20.17
100.00
40.54
100.0
00.7
100.00

=== Page 127 === (confidence 1.00)
-35-
JAPANESE SHORT-WAVE BROADCASTS FOR THE MONTHS OF JANUARY,
FEBRUARY, AND MARCH, 1939, ANALYZED BY SUBJECT MATTER,
EXCLUDING ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND BY DESTINATION
(Compiled from Published Programs of the Japan Broadcast-
ing Corporation. For Data see Table I of this Report)
Miscellaneous
Music
Folitical
Propaganda
News
China,
Europe
South
Pacific
Atlantic
Philippines,
America
Coast
Coast
and
and
South
Hawaii
Seas

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.94)
- 36-
Time Devoted to Propagande
It is noteworthy that, excludin the tine necessary
for making announcements, &lmost exactly two-thirds or
the total time oi snort-wvetro
1 aVolou to
political propaganue, eitner i. the forn oi lectures or of
news. Music takes about one quarter o the totel tine of
short-wave oroeacasts, and the renainin: one tweiitn or the
time is siven to lectures n e ltu, encour ehent of the
tourist industry, ana verious miscelleneous suujects. Some
of the hours credited to " niscellaneous" shoulu pro uf bly
be credited to political prop enaa, but their aescriition
was too vague to permit or ccurect clussiricetion.
Destination o1 Fiopagenua
Excluding the news rotucasts,  roximetely one
half o1 all the political propuganut is lirected tt Cnins,
the Soutn Set Islenas, anu soutnetstern Asit. About one-
fifth is directed at Europe, &nother iilth at South America,
and only one-tenth at North Americu. Of tne one-tenth
directed at North Anerica, three-rourths is iirecteu tt
Hawaii and the Paciric Coast where by lar tne  reatest
nunber or Japtnese subjects and Anerican citizens or Jape-
nese descent resiue.
The political propaganda uirectea at Chinu anu the
South Seas is broedcast daily in English, French, Chinese,
and Dutch, so that it can be understood by the inhabitants
of China, French Indo-China, the Bhilippine Islands, the
Netherlands Eest Indies, the Straits Settlements, and the
educated olasses in Burma end ritish India.
Short-weve

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.89)
-37-
Short-Wave Receiving Sets Foroiaden in Japan
In view of the obvious importance whicn the Japenese
attach to overseas prop: xands, it is especially interesting
that the possession :nd oper tion of short-wave receiving
sets is strict Ior'i   n, :ot to Jnese
and to foreigners. heoreti e i, it is oseiole to h. ly
for a permit to ev.  snort-.s receivin set, out
in practice this permission is never iven to privete
haiviaut.
In tne case or  lerlern ov rmaent oil iciais end
employees, permission is regulurly tsked or the Foreign
Oifice et the time the receivine sut is installed, but up
to the present no tnswer has een receiveu irom the For-
eign Olfice in the case o.  sinpie  licttion or t is ind,
except for the ap lications o. those persons who tre on the
diplometic list. Consuler eliicers ana di lomatic and
consular clerks in Tokyo ty operate snort-weve receiving
之
sets with the tecit connivance of the roreign Oifice, and
C
it is understoon thet consuler orficers in other perts of
C
Jepan likewise use receiving sets with the tecit consent
of the local authorities.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
- 38 -
Sources of Information
1. Tokyo Gazette, September 1937, an English language
magazine published monthly by the Foreign
Affairs Association of Japan
2. The Japan Year Book 1938-9
3. Japan-Manchoukuo Year Book 1939
4. Showa Jusannen Rajio Nenkan (Radio Year Book 1938),
published in Japanese by the Broadcasting
Corporation of Japan
5. Report of the Directors of the Great Northern
Telegraph Company for the year 1937
6. Tokyo Nichi Nichi, English language edition, of
Japanese newspaper, Februcry 8, 1939
7. Rates for Internationel Telegrams, ffective
January 1, 1939, published by Depertment of
Communications.
8. Interview with the local maneger of the Com-
mercial Pecific Ceble Conpany
9. Japan-Manchoukuo Year Book 198
10. Rates and Service Hours for International Radio-
telephone, ec. 1938, published by Interna-
tional Telecommanicetions Company, Ltd.
11. Kampo (Orficial Gazette of the Japanese Govern-
ment, published in Japanese) No. 3588,
December 19, 1938
12. Japan Weekly Chronicle, February 9, 1939, English
language newspaper published in Kobe.
13. Japan Advertiser, December 25, 1938, English
language newspaper published in Tokyo.
