894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., December 18, 1931 (File 732)
ID: 894.00-732   Pages: 5   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
LONDON, December 18, 1931.

No. 2473
DEC 30 31

[stamp: OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 25 1932
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WESTERN LABORATORY
RECEIVED]

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.

[stamp: DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 2 1932
DIVISION OF
WESTERN LABORATORY
JAN 13 1932]

[stamp: DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 2 1932
SECRETARY'S OFFICE]

Sir:

I have the honor to enclose an editorial from THE TIMES of December 14, commenting on the recent change of government in Japan and the abandonment by that country of the gold standard. The opinion is expressed that although internal dissension existed in the Government party, due to the desire of the Home Minister to have a National Government formed with the support of the Opposition, the resignation of Mr. Adachi and the subsequent transfer of office to the Seiyukai is attributed to Mr. Adachi's disagreement with the policies of the Finance Minister in the late Cabinet rather than to the Manchurian affair.

The/

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

materially cutting down the asset side of her exchange ledger. It is not surprising in these circumstances that the nation has conscribed the services of Mr. Takahashi, who was Minister of Finance during the panic of 1920, and was largely instrumental in laying down the gold embargo on the previous occasion.

In this general connection it may be noted that the abandonment by Japan of the gold standard is far from being a matter of superficial interest to England. As the Embassy has pointed out in several of its weekly reports, there has been a marked revival of the English cotton spinning industry during the past few weeks. At a recent meeting at Manchester of the Federation of Master Cotton Spinners' Association, the chairman said that "under the stimulus of our own suspension of the gold standard, employment in the spinning section of the cotton trade improved by 50%." There have, of course, been larger orders from India, Burmah, and Africa, but the revival has been due principally to orders from China; and it is apparent from the size of these orders that they are intended to supply the demand created by the boycott on Japanese goods. According to recent press despatches from China, the efficacy of the boycott is being challenged by the growing depletion of stocks. The Boycott Committee is beginning to permit the sale of Japanese goods, under conditions which are prohibitive of ordinary commercial transactions; nevertheless, the fact that Chinese merchants are permitted to deal in Japanese merchandise indicates that the demand for necessities, at least, is

becoming/

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-
becoming acute.

The Japanese mills have been able consistently to
underbid their British competitors in the Chinese market,
except in the finest yarns and tissues, which, however,
occupy only a small proportion of the total trade. Had
Japan remained on the gold standard and continued to
concede a handicap to the British mills of from 20 to 30%
on exchange, it is not unlikely that the relatively high
cost of Japanese produce, combined with the animosity
engendered by the Manchurian affair, might well have
prevented Japan from regaining her share of China's
trade. The Chinese are, however, merchants par
excellence; and with the pretext which now presents
itself - that China is suffering from a lack of goods -
the British mills have every reason to fear that the
wiping out of the premium on Japanese exchange will
make it difficult for them to consolidate the gains they
have recently made in China.

In India, the Japanese gold embargo has, of course,
placed the Japanese mills in the same position in which
they were, in respect of competition with England,
before England abandoned the gold standard. In British
territory in Africa, which buys almost three times as
much cotton cloth from Japan as it does from England,
the chances of making inroads on the Japanese trade have
virtually disappeared, at least under conditions which
prevail to-day in the English cotton industry.

For some time past the British employers have been
trying to persuade the cotton operatives to agree to a
modification/

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-

favorable terms lasts, the Japanese should have on this score yet another substantial advantage over the British. It is, therefore, to point out the obvious to say that the employment disturbances towards which these negotiations are tending must gravely prejudice England's opportunity to retain her recent gains in Asiatic and African markets.

It is in the cotton trade that the full effect of Japanese competition is being felt, for the reason that the cotton industry is perhaps the most important in each country and cotton products form one of their principal items of export. However, the circumstances upon which I have touched apply with almost equal relevancy to their trade in other commodities. Last year, for example, Japan bought 11% of Australia's wool clip. Her woolen textile industry has been developed to the point that she is not only able to supply her domestic needs but is competing vigorously with England in India and in other countries where low prices are a greater consideration than good quality. It is in the cheaper markets where the competition between the two countries is the most lively; and if Japanese currency depreciates to as low a relative point as sterling, or even to a lower point than sterling (which is not unlikely), the effects cannot but be seriously felt in England.

Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:

Enclosure:
1. THE TIMES. Dec. 14. CHANGES IN JAPAN.
3 copies destroyed
2-15-32 RH

Ray Atherton,
Counselor of Embassy.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
THE TIMES
NUMBER
LONDON
DATE Dec. 14, 1931

# Changes in Japan

Japan has a new Ministry and has abandoned the gold standard. These changes seem to have come suddenly and unexpectedly, but it is probable that outside Japan the shadows of their approach were obscured in the world's eyes by the dust of the Manchurian conflict. The causes of the fall of the Wakatsuki Ministry seem to have been financial and economic rather than political. It could count upon what appeared to be a safe majority over all the other parties in the Japanese Diet, but its internal cohesion had been shaken by disagreements between Mr. ADACHI, the Home Minister, and his colleagues. Over three weeks ago Mr. ADACHI, who controlled the Ministerialist Party machine, announced that he would support the formation of a National Government if the people desired one. But the Opposition did not respond to this overture, and Mr. ADACHI's resignation from the Minseito Party now makes it clear that the great majority both of his colleagues and of his followers were opposed to the idea. Although at the time he seemed to advocate the formation of a National Government on account of the Manchurian crisis, the real cause of his action is believed by our Tokyo Correspondent to have been his disagreement with the financial policy of his colleague and rival, Mr. INOUYE. In January last year Mr. INOUYE abolished the embargo on the export of gold. His action was criticized by important Japanese bankers and industrialists, and of late these criticisms had become complaints. Large financial and commercial interests were reputed to have indulged in heavy speculation in dollars in anticipation of the fall of the yen. Mr. INOUYE's shipments of gold to America converted their hopes of profit into fears of heavy loss. Their attacks on Mr. INOUYE were supported by the industrialists, and particularly by the owners of textile factories, who complained that by tying Japanese currency to the dollar he had deprived them of their power to compete with Lancashire in the Middle Eastern and Far Eastern markets. The Conservative Opposition had opposed the free export of gold, and the fact that the first act of the Seiyukai Government was to prohibit it entirely confirms the belief that the recent Cabinet crisis had no direct connexion with the Manchurian question.

Important as is the abandonment of the gold standard by Japan it is possible, and indeed probable, that the new Government will in other respects follow Mr. INOUYE's policy of retrenchment. The ex-Minister of Finance has a large following; the Seiyukai are in a minority of eighty in the Diet; only seven members of the Minseito have followed Mr. ADACHI into Opposition; and the present condition of the world's trade and finance sternly forbids extravagance. The appointment of Mr. K. TAKAHASHI, an experienced banker, as Minister of Finance for the third time in his career appears to have been due to the desire of PRINCE SAIONJI, the last survivor of the Elder Statesmen of Japan and the trusted adviser of the EXPRESS, to maintain public confidence at home and abroad in the financial stability of the country. At the same time the impression that the change in financial policy, even if ultimately necessary, had to be expedited to save a great human from the consequences of their prudence will not dispute the Minseito Party's intent to import from the country. Mr. INOUYE's October is one of the six
