894.20 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., August 20, 1934 - March 1, 1939 (File 1082)
ID: 894.20-1082   Pages: 58   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20-military-affairs-army-7
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.89)
Rh:OBIVHD
00117 1934
DIVIBION OF
DiviC
FAR EASTAFFAIRS
1x
SP 14 1934
-200 - Pel1tal Ferees.
10s - Intematienal Ralations.
Ab.
854.202
The Japamese perudst in sagy ing that they were peer
esnsider his point of view.
At amy rate the roroin Orfioe has u plan to station
"Cultural Attaches" in New York, Paris, Landon, mrlin and
plaees although it 1s understood tha: th is plan has been dropped
for the preaent. Institutes for he study of Japan are to be
foumded as soxu as fumda perait.
It is vmary true that Japm 1s oomparatively unknovn to
most Ameri aans and uropeans ud teat a wider nd better
kmownodge of Jnpan and her roblems would uid Aaerloans in
their attempts to undorstand the problems that confront then
in the Far East. It 1s fult however, that tho real reason
behind these plns lies in the belief that the apunese feel
that propaganae is ueooamry at this particular time. If this
is the oase it is foared that the atteahas, libraries and
institutes may tur out to be aupencies for upreading Japumse
propaganda nd thus lofeat heir on prposes.
FILED

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
SA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 22, 1934.
 dopatal. m.m.H.
Despatch No. 396 from Kobe, dated
October 30, 1934:
Despatch reports observations in regard
to patriotic motifs appearing in Japanese
women's apparel.
It is a case, very common in Japan, of
business firms capitalizing on the known
patriotic susceptibilities of the people.
Theaters in Tokyo have done the same thing
very openly, since the Mukden incident of
1931.
Too much significance appears to be
attached to the subject.
FE:BDS/DLY
THE UNDLR SEORELARY
894.202/8
NOV 30 1934
DEC 1 1934
MR. DUNN

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.92)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAURS
396
NOV 21 1934
AMERICAN CONSULA
Kobe, Japan, October 303.
894.202
SumJEcT: Anti- Foreign Activities at Kobe, Japan.
1-1080
mthont
THEHONRABLE
S
PHE SECEETARY OF STATE.
(1)
Pofy MID
EIVED
924 N 20 
22
894.202/14
por-
5
WASHINGTON.
C
have the honor to report that patriotic kimonos
The
for women and children are now on sale at Kobe.
writer's interest was aroused by the chance remark of
a lbbal foreigner on the subject and he accordingly
ABT T
D1
sited the shop in question, that of I. Kusakabe and
Company, situated at Moto-machi, 1-chome, the principal
0/J-V
DEC7-1934
FILED
opping street of Kobe for both foreigners and Japan-
Kusa-
ese-and one which is always visited by tourists.
DEPA
women and children and cater only to Japanese trade.
The designs on these particular patriotic kimonos for
women consisted of battleships, aeroplanes, and gun crews
firing anti-aircraft guns. The words " Patriotic 1936",
together with Japanese flags and bars of music, presumably
Children's
the Japanese national anthem, were also prominent.
kimonos had more or less the same design with " Sonaeyo 1936"
stamped on them. "Sonaeyo l936" could be properly translated
as an adjuration to the youth of Japan to be brave during the
1936 orisis. These kimonos were prominently displayed on the
walls of the shop.
The
1C

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
The writer instructed Clerk Carey J. Soott who
speaks Japanese fluently, to drop into the shop
casually on his way nome that evening and to endeavor,
without arousing undue suspicion, to ascertain the origin
of these designs. The clerk in charge knew notning of
the matter, but fortunately a clerk by the name of Kato,
an employee of Tachibana and Company happened to be there,
and furnished a good deal of information on the subject.
No suspicion was aroused by Mr. Scott's inquiry.
The designs for these kimonos were maae by either
Tachibana and Company, Nishi-Horie, Osaka, or Kuroda (?)
and Company, Osaka, both of which firms are SOMEMONOYA
designers and dyers. The Dai Nihon Orimono Kaisha, Azu-
chi-machi, 2-chome, Osaka, produced the material.
The origin of these kimonos is precisely what might
be expected.
When General Araki, former Minister of
War, was in Osaka some time last year the Japanese
calligraphers and designers held an exhibition in his
honor in conjunction with the fan wholesalers of Osaka.
Tachibana and Company and/or Kuroda and Company copied
some of these designs, two at least of which have been
reproduced. Fortunately this rahher garrulous employee
of Tachibana and Company happened to have a book of these
designs with him which he did not hesitate to display.
Some of these designs were very offensive indeed.
One
showed the Japanese flag superimposed on small British and
American flags with the character for "Conquer" above the
flag while below in English were the words "l936 Hinomaru
( Japanese flag) outshine the world." Another design showed
a small Japanese
war

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
war vessel, a larger British war vessel below it, and
below that a still larger American war vessel.
The
figure of a sailor was shown beside each vessel. The
sizes of the sailors were the reverse of that of the
ships, that beside the Japanese vessel oeing larger than
the one beside the British vessel which rigure in turn
as larger than the one depicting an American bluejacket.
The inscription in Japanese beside this work of art was
as follows : " Not ships but patriotic men are the
strength of the nation."
The same informant stated that a number of these
kimonos were on sale on Shinsaibashi, the main shopping
street of Osaka, but whether the e particular designs
were reproduced is unknown to the Consulate.
The writer
will visit Osaka this week and submit such information
as may be available on that point. So far as known,
such kimonos are not on sale elsewhere in Kobe but
futher investigations will be made on the subject.
The writer purchased two of these kimonos, which were
sold to him without the slightest hesitation, and has for-
warded them to the American Ambassador at Tokyo for inspection
and transmission to the Department at his discretion.
2.g.n.
"espectfully yours,
x
Howard Donovan,
800(350) ( 310)
American Consul.
HD/ojs
Original to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
ENOLOSURE FILED IN
OVI
DATE FILED 12-21-34
d.urp

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE .....894.30/94
FOR...Te1..268..4pm.
894.202
FROM .-Japen
Grew
) DATED
Dec. 4, 1934.
TO
NAME
1-1197
5
REGARDING: Japanese Naval Propaganda:
Publicity Section of the Japanese Navy has announced to the Press
that on Dec. 3, 1934, it despatched 10,000 copies of various
pamphlets containing-, to Japanese societies and schools in the
South Seas, Hawaii, the Pacific coast of the United States,
Canada and elsewhere; later to despatch another pamphlet.
FRG.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
JS
GRAY
TOKYO
nit
Datud Docombor 4, 1934
Roc'd 5:04 a.m.
Socrotary of State,
Washington, D..
268, Ducember 4, 4 p.m.
894.
The publicity soction of the Japanese Navy
popart cnt has announeod to the press that on December
3, 1934, 1t despatched 10, 000 copios of various
3
pamphlets containing upunore naval propanganda to
0
Japancce sociotics and schools in the South Seas,
Favaii, tre Pacifie coast of t Inited States,
Sanada and elsewhere and will 1 iter despatch 10, 000
copics of a new propaganda pamphlet yet to be published.
GREW

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.76)
M2H
Jopanene
propagan da
Stal
wns

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.79)
American E.nbassy
25
Jme Ppege
Departronut of State
94.202
Ls an item of pessible interest, indleative of the widespread pro-
pepomla or the Japemese hapire at the presont tame, when that nation ia
befare the bar of wesld epinion, repert is made of an imstamse of the
sntivity of the Japaeee Nilitary Attahh at Rme, Lieutememt Colomel
Mese Nokasee
On mavember 2, 19s4, blomel Xakamere soat to thie office, with a 00
pelite lotter of trammittal, the following publicatioms:
6
4
(a) A megemime, "Presozt-Day Japem", ameherian mambez, emal
English mpplamont of the Latl, Ceake mnt Sote, . 6. 1952
2
(in lah) by the outh amehmrin R e, Deren, Joe. 19s.
1
welttes by . Parelan, Jemeral Esseger or the "Phálippimes
9
Mmsald", nd peblished (in Kagliah) in Japem by the Japaneee
offiee of the"Philippimes Harald".
I doubt these publleatiome have been distributed in Waskdagten,
ceneequently ealy brief referenee will be mate to them. Undoubtedly
all are soverameat-iaepired. The magesime, "Presese-Day Japee", is a
vesy attrastive illustrated publieation of les peses, on the esder of
"Pesten", nd costalme ne artieles en pelsties, art, travel, and
The "Peusth Mapert en Pregrese in Hamskeria to 19s4", la a pee-
tentless beek ef z94 peges, eeellently presented la Engiish, mete fertà
in detall the reasome for Japam's withdraral frem the League of Matiome,
a seglsee to the repert ef the Lgtton omseste
The beekiet "Jaeen at a Gl mee" 1a wr1en by a Phliaptme Japa
It is eme egsere teeasde cultivatine friemily relations with a rese
2. a. Pillow,
Milstary Attee
.
copy in
17
2
FLED
2
45381
93
St will citiculate
71000

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.92)
WE
untary Report - Strictly Confidential.
OF EASTERN
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
A
APH·3- 1935
DEPARTMENT
26
OF STATE
235
FAIRS
794.207
894.202/17
三
F01
JAPANLLLI D.
Tackledoock
From:
Jack. Cocke,
Amerian Vice Consul.
4
APR 4 1935
FILED
Nantus, France,
Date of Completion: March 15, 1935,
No. 23.
Date of Mailing:
March 15, 1935.
Approved:
B.. Julley,
American Consul.
The recently-arrived Argentine Consul at Nantes, Senor
Leoni, formerly stationed at Singapore, states that he arrived
in Japan on a Dollar liner in l934 (about a year ago) for a
ten-day stop-over, and in spite of his diplomatic passport, was
much questioned

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
JAPANESE INIELLIGENCE LETHODS.
mich questione by customs officials, and had a portion of
his baggage inspected.
A few days ufter is a rival, he received the visit of
a Jpanese employee of the rgentine cons liate at the port
where he was sto ing, who informed him that a police of-
ficial had e pressed a e ire to iuterview him. Leoni ac-
ce ted, inspired ore  curio ity thun ny other sentinent.
At the auly-fixed hur for he rendez-vous a smirking
official introduced hi self as "the police authority in charge
when you docked the other day," which stat ament the Argentinian
was not prepared to contest, all orientals appearing almost
identical to his Testern e es. According to Leoni, the fol-
lowing conversation tuen tk lace:
JAPAN ALOUS S :
"As a neutral between Great
t ritain and Japan, would you
object to ansuering a few questions?"
"NO."
"What did you see of Brit ish fortifications at Singapore?
Why is Great ritain fortifying that port? Do you think it is
against Japan?
What is the status of the work on the new air-
port?"
To all of vhich, the rgentine consul states that he returned
evasive answers.
RUSSIA A BUFFER BET TEEN JAPAN AND WESTERN MATIONS:
Mr. Looni during his three or four years' stay in the
Orient appears to have lade an intensive study of the Pacific
problem from all its angles. He believes that Japan has waited
too long, so that Russia has now not only completed the laying
of double tracks on the Trans-Siberian Railway, but has also
laid in...

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.89)
一 3 -
JAPANSE  TIGC. HODS.
an intmense reserve o ar  liessiberla, perrected its
military av atlor or aninatlo.  iperia, and created a lurge
ant weil-e pui ped m ar me are t Viadivo tok. He therefore
feel that  t Russle resdy to act as a wi. ing buffer, the
lestern nuttons na e n t  te r ro. Japan from a military
or aval pt.
300
JC/jec
In quintuplicate to Departme of tate,
Copy for American  assy, aris,
Copy for Consulte enerul, uris.
SOURCES OF INFOR ITICN: Strictly Confidential.
Argentine Consul at Nantes.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
FOR .Spec1al Report. #.D...1584
SEE ....894.20219/85
894.202/18
(...Daaon....) DATED .Aug..26,..1935.
FROM ...Franaa
NAME
1-1127
TO
The Japanese Secret Service: Fields of action:
REGARDING:
Report on-, encloses article clipped from the CYRANO of
August 23, 1935.
FRG.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
894.202
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.4063 01ympic Games/6
FOR
#2060
894.202/1
FROM
Japan
Dickover
) DATED Sept 30, 1936
TO
NAME
1--1127
61
Relations between Japanese women and foreigners and their al-
REGARDING:
leged connection with espionage activities.
Decision to hold the Olympic Games in Japan, l940, has given rise
to an intensified campaign for the prevention of espionage and
the protection of Japanese womanhood from "immoral foreigners".
FRG.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
894.202
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
793.94/12293
FOR.
#63
FROM
Hong Kong
Southard
..) DATED...DeC.31..1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.202/
Lengths to which Japanese will go in spreading propaganda and
REGARDING:
the unique form it is taking among foreigners in Far East.
Letter of Dec 15, 1937, addressed to Mr J.B. Emmert by a fellow
philatelist in Japan. Transmits copy of-,
20
FRG.
2

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
894.202
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/12331
SEE
FOR
FROM
Simmons, Donald M.
DATED...Jan..3..1938
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.202/
Sino-Japanese conflict:-Japanese propaganda.
REGARDING:
"Why? Who? How? Questions and Answers on the Conflict".
Transmits copy of pamphlet, issued by The Foreign Affairs
Association of Japan.
2
FRG.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
793.94/12573
FOR
Correspondence
FROM ...Rieser..Company.
DATED Mar. 2,1938
894.202/
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Japanese military activities: Japanese took
over Chefoo on Feb. 3, and dropped pamphlets
2
from planes, with advice for evacuation of
foreigners.
2
aa
874.20

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
894.202
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/12623
FOR_#-
SEE
FROM
Mukden
Davies
) DATED Feb 11. 1938
TO
NAME
1-1127
Japanese propaganda leaflet on present crisis.
REGARDING:
Dooument, con tributing to understanding of Japanese military
mind: enoloses copy of Consulate's despatch #205, transmitting
copy of-,
2
3
FRG.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Maroh 31, 1938.
Reference Taihoku's unnumbered
despatoh of February 17, 1938, to
Tokyo.
Apparently a certain Japanese
has attempted to sell "information"
to a member of the staff of the Con-
sulate at Taihoku. Aside from in-
forming the Foreign Affairs Section
of the Taihoku Provincial Government,
Consul Warner has suggested to the
member of his staff who was approached
by the Japanese that should the latter
return an effort be made to set a trap
for him and to turn him over to the
police.
It would seem that Consul Warner
in offering such advice may have been
too eager in his efforts to cooperate
with the Japanese authorities.
FE:Ringwalt:NN

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
Dup1Str
AMIR
AMERICAN CONDULATE,
RECELVED
TdheusTatwhe Japan, February 17, 1938.
1938 R 21 PM 3 26
The Honorable
Josepho. Orew.S
D
Amerioan Ambassedor,
Tokyo.
sir:
I heve the honor to enclosed herewith a memorandum
8942
prepared by Mr. Tan Ko Heng, (better known by the
Japanese pronounciati on of his name as Mr. Chin)
alerk of this ofrice, conceming a visit paid him
894.
last evening by a Japenese who refused to divulge
his name but wiahed to vell "information".
2
0
Upon being informed of the matter this morning,
2/2
Mr. Wataru Shibaoka of the Foreign Affairs Section
of the Taihoku Provinoiol Government and formerly
4
of the Kita ?olice was oalled in and givem known
facts. In addition to Mr. Chin's statement, pertinent
information in the files was divulged concerning a
Mr. Ri kin-son to whom this office granted a visa
In 193 and again in 1936 for travel to Manila.
Whether this is the Ri Kin-sho referred to in the
APR 21938
memorendum of Wr. Chin is not known but the age and
FILED
occupation agree.
I suggested to Mr. Chin that in the future he
might endeavor to trap this mam should he again
appear by conduetins himself as follows this
F/A
explamatiom beins mmde in the presenee of Mr. Shibaoka
who agreed thereto: He should arramgs with those
in

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
im his house or in the shop downstairs to call the
police as soon as Mr. Chin and the man are in
conferenoe. He should endeavor to find out what
sort of informntion the mnn has to sell and his
reasons for coming to see r. Chin about the matter,
and negotiate for its sale and delivery. and arrang
to have the nolioe seize him when he leaves the
house. mr. atsuo then reoalled with great gusto
the way Mr. Dooman while st tioned here had been
instrumental in a prehending a person with military
secrets to sell.
You will be informed of any furtber developments
in the present case.
Resvectfully yours,
Gerld arner
Ame rican Consul.
malosure:
Memoran tum of lir. Chin.
3 oopies to Department.
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.94)
American Consulate,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan
February 17, 1938
semorandum oncernin offer of sale of "information"
by an unknown Japanese to r.Tan(chin) Ko-Heng, clerk
of this ofice.
Yesteruay afterno n auout 5  1 returned to my
nouse from the onsulate. hen  enterea the mein door
donstairs, ay Lanalord's el est son, then in anare of
uis rice shop veneath my nome, told me that two unknown
Japanese entlomen uad come nd one was then upstairs and
sale that he i shed t, see ue. i went up to my house and
thhere was une aid man sittie. on tae chair.
I usked him whet he wisned, am ne sui, wat he had
come from kobe about 1 month ao and his iriend r. Ri
ain-sno had lold him of me. e also saiu tnat r. Ri
kin-aho, hom I saiu I dicn't know, was born in hinaniku
Provinoe, raiwan, was about 54 years ld, had gone to
anila about ten years ago, ano wes still there in the
rocery business. I repliet tlt I stili didn't know
n1s friena r. 1 in-sho, un uidn't remember havine
anown any person y tuat name.
Two or tnr . times i asxed t is Japanese eentleman
for nis neme, but he looked like he aid not wish to tell
me nis name. hen 1 askeu nis name ne turned his face
to one side. He kept quiet lor a little lile, then
turned his ft ce to me ana saio: " jula  ou like to buy
some information?", but I made no reply beceuse he aid
not act like a entlemen anu tell me nis name.
I esve him one cup of tee and a oigarette, but he
did not smoke the ci arette, even louel I lighted it.
Ae looxeo like he ished to stay wi in me as lone as he
coula. so I peid more attention to his sp ken voioe, and
I found tnat he apoke Japanese like tnc en worxing
for tue ecret Iolice or the ilitary olice. His hair
was cut lixe that of a soldier, anu he wore black
foreign style clothes. He stayed in my nouse about
forty minutes. I was afraid to sh . any interest in
"information" for fear he might be a policeman and
would immedietely seize me ir I aid.
(signed) Tan Ko-Heng

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apr11 4, 1938.
PA/B
M.Hornbeok:
U
Mr. Weller?
I believe that you will
wish to read in full Peiping's
despatoh of February 7 on the
subjeot, "Significant Politi-
cal, Military, Economic, and
Financial Developments dur-
1ng 1937."
PHia
FE: MMH: DT

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
Apri1 8 1938.
0.556
The Henerable
Nelson T. Johnson,
Ameriean Ambassador,
894.202/24
Peiping.
siri
The Department refers to the Embassy's despateh
Ne. 154l of February 7, 1938, entitled "Sigmiricant
Politioal, Military, Eoonomic, and Financial Develop-
ments during 193?", prepared by Mr. Laurence E. salis-
bury, First Seoretary or Embassy, and requests that
you inform Mr. Salisbury that the Department considers
the despatoh, becsuse of its clear, logioal, and com-
prehensive presentation and interpretation of the
events of the past year, to be of exceptional value.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
1
Sumner Welles
A
nole
sa
123
A true copy of
Gopy to Hankow.
CR
APR 5 1938.PM
893.00/14217
PAN
FE: ARR: VCI
FE
4/4/38
m.N

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apr11 23, 1938
894.202/25
Reference Osaka's despatcl. to
the Embassy of March 30. Most of
the information ccntained in this
anti-spy carpaign report has been
fully reported elsewhere. You may
however, be interested in lancing
at the last paragraph of th report.
JP

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.94)
Coy to Deorted Pat DER
AMERICAN CONSULATE
RECEIVED
O, Sn 30,1958.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
1938 APR 20 PM 3 35
DIVISION OF
Spx Moasures
C
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
Amorican Ambassalor,
44
Tokyo.
WA
sir:
in stret confitereT
I have the honor to enclose a report entitled "Ja-
pamese Anti-Spy Measures" which may be of interest to
894.202/25
the Kmbassy.
Very respeetfully yours,
George A. Makinson,
imerioan Consul General.
820.08
GAM/OL
Distribution:
Ortginal to Embassy, Tokyo.
Three copies to Department of State.
One copy to Supervising Consul ate General, Tokyo;

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
EBE ANTI-SPY MEASURIS
Japan, a country that 1tself leaves no stone un-
turned to discover facts and conditions abroed, is ap-
parantly determined to guard well its own secrets at
home. Among other precautions the population is being
made thoroughly anti-spy minded.
Foroign Propagande and Spying Exhibition
An anti-Foreign Propaganda and Spying Exhibition
was recently held (middle of Maroh) in Osaka in the Ta-
kashimaya Department Store. Prior to the forml open-
ing of this unique exhibition whioh is sponsored by the
National Government's Information Bureau, the site was
purified with Shinto rites by the priests of the Yasaka
shrine in the presence of the prefeotural and munioipal
authorities. The aim of the exhibition was to streng-
then the Japanese mational spirit and expose the perni-
cious influenee of Communism and labor agitation, as
well as to teach patriotie eitizens to be on guard a-
gainst all forms of foreign propaganda and spying of-
forts.
In the exhibition, a prominontly placed pioture
showed Japanese of all social classes, professional men,
students, housewives, farmers, soldiers, bowing in rever-
enee before the Imperial Pabace in Tokyo, while various
other posters were used to gloriry the military spirit
and the war-dead.
A large eleetrieally illuminated wall-map represent-
d the werld as divided into politieal ideologies, Russia,
Chins, Franee and all her colenies being showm as commun-
ist, while Germany, Italy, Japan and Traneo's pertion of
Spain were shemm as enti-commumist. The United States
was

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
showm es neutral. South American eountries were mix-
ed a ceameetion between Soviet Russia, Franee, and China,
and also ome between the anti-communist powers, Italy, Ger-
many and Japan. This map carried photographs of President
Roosevelt, Stalin, Chiang-Kai-Shek, Hitler Mussolini and
othors.
One seetion or the exhibition was detoted to propaganda
and counter-propaganda, as used in the American civil war,
the World War, by publisher Hearst before the Spanish-Amer1-
ean war, by the Chinese against the Japanese and so on.
Japan's own propaganda in North China was touehed upon,
and the role of Japanese radio indicated. Some leaflets
and other printed matter taken from Reds, lamor agitators
and pacirists were displayed.
The exhibition contained a large anti-foreign-spy
seotion, its main theme being to impress on the people
the importance to national welfare of surrounding their
every aet and utterance with great eausion, especially in
the presenee of foreigners. As an example: a drawing
showing a fmreigner danoing with an attractive Japanese
girl, but the text goes on to explain that there is
probably more in this tham meets the casual eye. It says
that when a foreigner dances often with one partieuler
girl it is not a tribute to her chmrm, but more probably
the beginning of e eunning plot which,long after, may re-
sult in some Japanese factory exploding in the air. A-
saim, posters showed a foreign spy hidden behind his mows-
peger in a railway earriage, earefully noting the gist
of e cemversstion between eareless citisens. Another
shewed a fereigmer mingling with a erowd of Jagamese at
a railway statien where they had gome to bid farewell to
doparting

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
ting soldiers; due to sueh plotting troop movements
ome kmown or possibly the train is wreeked. Ome large
poster bore the caption "Beware of the Machinations of
Foreign Spees" and under this appeared a chart or sraph
showing the number of public investigations condueted in
Japan by foreigners in the last ten years. Near this dis-
play a table was staoked wi th pamphlets publihed by the
"Association for Soientiric Researoh in National Defence".
These leaflets on sale at 10 sen each (3 cents) dealt
with the problem of combatting spies. The pamphlet ex-
xplained that not all foreigners were bad. Ambassadors,
Ministers and Consuls were listed as good foreigners.
The mxhibition was well attended, mostly by the mid-
dle and lower olasses, a liberal percentage being young
students. Some seemod deeply impressed, and all very at-
tentive and respeotful. To a neutral observer it seemed
that the exhibition was too heavily weighted wi th graphs,
charts and similar material. Some of these were obimusly
"over the heads" of the average visitor.
Pogsible Danger of Antagonizing the Publ ie Against Foreimn
The ehart mentioned in the paragraph above, displayed
right next to a "Beware of the Machinations of Foreign
Spies" poster, and showing the number of publio investi-
satioms made by foreigners in this country during the last
tem years, was the eause of a mild unofrioial protest
made by the loeal British consul. He pointed out that
"publie investigations" are very apt to be onstrued by
the publie as meaning chierly ∞nsular investigations of
a perfeetly harmless eharacter, and that the publie re-
aetioa

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.95)
4
is certain to hinder legitimate ∞nsular trade in-
tostigatiomal wmsk. Sinee the exhibition opened ne states
that his commereial elerk has been reprimanded by business-
for
mom on more than one oeeasion for merely asking/harmless
trade information.
The Mainteni Printe Prominont Anti-Spy Artiale
In 1ts odition of Mareh 27th the Opam Maiaien1 pro-
minently features an anti-apy artiole well ealculated to
make the people suspieious of all foreigmers.
After reminding the publie that Japan has severe laws
against esplonage and emphasizing its dangers, the artiele
deplores the faet that Jepanese are prone to show too much
faith and admiration towards foreigners, using as proor
the alleged boast of a Russian spy to the effect that the
Japanese are the easiest people in the workd to "work on"
if handled in the right wmy, that frequently when invited
to entertainments by foreigners and plied with a little
liquer they talk too freely, even to the extent of diselo-
sing information detrimental to m tional interests.
Aetual instances of spying and supposed spying by Bri-
tish, Freneh, Russians and Amerieans are given: (1) Two
Britishers, a man and a woman, sailed from Shanghai to the
Ogasaware Islands a few years ago for the purpose of spy-
ing, but were balked in the attempt as the authorities had
been marned of their coming and were thus able to deport
them. (2) In l934, a young offrieer attaehed to the fremeh
Embassy in Tokyo made love to various young sosiety women
and threugh them secured valuable informatiom. (3) On Jam-
wary 3, l9ss, Soviet whalers appeared off the Ogasaware Is-
lamds and began to survey the waters there. They were fin-
ed and the ineident alesed. (4) Several years age the Tok-

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.95)
-8
, as well as those branehes in Dairen, Makden and
coatracted for photographs of all the large publie
ldings in their respeotive eities, eonforming, so they
elaimed, with an order from their home ofriee. Comsider-
ing this to be contrary to the spirit of the national air-
defenee poliey the polioe stopred the proceedings. It is
understood that this suspension of photographing ordinary
publie buildings sueh as banks, oentral publio halls and
offiee buildings resulted in an Imbassy protest to the
Foreign Orfiee at the time. However, the present point is
that this ineident rehashed in the present Mainiohi artiole
1s quite apt to damage the National City Bank in the eyes
of the publio, that is, it may well frighten away eustomers.
Ineidentalty, it is worth notang that the editor-in-ohier
of this paper, r. Takaishi, recently returned from a trip
to the United States where he was aotive as a Good ill
Favoy.
The Mainishi artiole then goes on to oite suspieious
trade requests mate by attachees of certain Tokyo embassies
and bunks. It seens these people approaehed the Nippon Lea-
ther Company and possible other firms with a request for in-
formation relative to the number of employees and other
quite harmless trade information. The paper, however, views
these aetivities in a suspicious light.
Although the umeriean Foreign Service is not mentiomed,
it is mot difrieult to foresee that newspeper artieles such
as shis wme will make the sathering of logitimate trade is-
formmtien even more difrieult than at present.
Derelcnere Nanderins ren Resten Pathe Disccurascd
the Leke Chremiele recently ran an editorial about the
cemins of spring. This is the ume, said the chzeniale

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
-6
6ople's thoughts tarn to the outdoors. The yaehting
will soon be here, but in order to prevent (unilateral)
ssunderstandings it is suggested that foreigners, instead
of floeking to the Inland Sea, oonfine their oruising to 0-
saka bay and leave their cameres and field glasses at home.
Even the simplest of road maps, suoh for example as
those whieh filling stations used to hand out to tourists,
are no longer available, and elmost no foreigners here drime
their own oars. Almost invariable those few who have tried
to obtain lioences recently have failed; on one pretext or
another the authorities seem to effeotively balk sueh at-
tempss. It seems quite evident that they do not want for-
eigmers moving indisoriminately about the country. of
course, where the foreigner's cer is driven by a Japanese
chauffeur, no inconvenience or any sort is met with, for
in that ease the police can quietly contect the chauffour
and satisfy themselves as to the nature and extent of the
tour. here a foreigner drives the police are manifestly
suspieious but approach the car only wd th reluetance.
Goorge A. Makinson,
Ameriean Consul Coneral.
880.08
GAM/GLJ

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
894.202
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/779
#2799-
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
March 3, 1938.
FROM
DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.202/ 26
Wartime-Thought Control Exhibit in Tokyo, February, 1938.
REGARDING:
Reporting on-, encloses clipping of "Big Crowds Attend Prop-
aganda Exhibit", JAPAN ADVERTISER, Feb 27, 1938.
FRG.
2

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
894.202
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/12870
#9270-
SEE
FOR
FROM
Military Attache
DATED
March 71938
Japan
/99
NAME
1-1127
894.202/
"The Cases For Japan And China", booklet distributed by the
REGARDING:
Foreign Affairs Association of Japan.
Encloses copy of-, a sample of the improved propaganda.
2
7
FRG.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
894.202
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/13591
FOR#48-
SEE
FROM
Foochow
Ward
DATED
June25.1938.
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.202/
Japanese propaganda handbills: scattering of-, by Japanese planes
REGARDING:
over city of Foochow.
2
8
FRG.
7
C

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.202/
SEE894.24/530
FOR
Despatch #1829
FROM
Shanghai
Gauss
---) DATED
Nov. 23, 1938.
TO
NAME
1-1127
2
6
REGARDING:
Circulation of propaganda against American
assistance in Japan's war on China:
Transmits copy of pamphlet, entitled "America's
Share in Japan's War Guilt".
aa
2

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mareh 20, 1939.
Tokyo's despatch 466 of Feb-
ruary 7, 1939, encloses 19
page single-space copy in trans-
lation of an anti-Jewish pam-
phlet printed in Japan. It
contains allegations of Jewish
blood in several American presi-
dents. It is pretty stupid
stuff and requires no action.
he pamphlet's remedy for es-
caping from Jewish influence
so bameful in the world is
to eat a proper diet.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
No. 466
AT
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Yokohama, Japan, February 7, 1939.
M
2.1
ON
SUBJECT:
ANTI-JEWISH PROPAGANDA IN JAPAN
—1006 GPO
4.7
S
13
THE HONORABLE
894.202
5.
MTHE SECRETARY OF STATE,
DT
894.202/30
WASHINGTON.
1939 MAR 1
SIR:
I have the honor to enclose herewith, as of pos-
eible interest, the Japanese text and a translation of
ASSISTANT SECRETAP
anti-Jewish pamphlet which appeared on news stands
MAR 2239
OF STATE
Yokohama recently. Other pamphlets are currently
A-M/G
ublications in other countries.
The enclosed pamphlet is of interest chiefly be-
FILEO
cause of its assertions (pages 10 and 1l of the trans-
lation) regarding the alleged Jewish blood of several
American Presidents.
Suoh propaganda could easily be stopped by the
authorities since under the law governing publications
all pamphlets must be censored by the authorities before
being put on sale. However, since the oultural ties
between
F/A

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
between Germany and Japan are given great publicity,
anti-Jewish propaganda would probably not be interfered
with.
Respectfully yours,
Richard F. Boyce,
American Consul.
Enclosures:
Japanese text and translation of anti-Jewish
pamphlet.
800
RFB/rk
Distribution:
5 copies Department of State, Washington, D. C.
1 copy
Amerioan Embassy, Tokyo.
1 oopy
American Consulate General, Tokyo.
1 copy
Files.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Lation of the "Speech Communication" No. 396 issued
st 5th, 1938.
E CHINA INCIDENT AND THE ACTIVITY CF THE JENS, bY
Joiohi Sakurasawa of the International Political and
Economic Association.
THE DESTINATION OF THE CHINA INCIDENT.
JEWISH PLOTS FOR ANNIHILATING THE WORLD - THE MOTIVE FOR STUDYING
JEWISH PROBLEMS.
I take this opportunity to make mention of Jewish problems.
While I am not an expert on the above subject, I understand I am
taken as such only because I have been called up to a number of
occasions on which vurious Jewish problems were discussed, during
my stay at home since I cume back to this country about 2 years
ago. As I said before, however, I have not made an exclusive study
of this topic. To teli the truth, it was about 37 or 38 yeurs ago
that I started to take an interest in these problems when I used,
in boyhood, to read the magazine entitled "The Boys' orld" where-
in such subjects as Jewish plots to destroy the world were edited.
Ever since that time my attention hus been strongly drawn to this
subject. About 13 or 14 years ago I went over to France for the
4th or 5th time and remained there for the succeeding 10 years,
during which time I had the chance of curing the illness of the
president of the well-known Coty Perfume Co. amd also that of Mr.
oltz(?), president of the French Standard Uil Co. (who was for-
merly Secretary to President Doumer). s & result of the above,
I became acquainted with those and other gentlemen who told me,
on a great many occasions, about plots and intrigues as mapped
out by Jews. In as much as I was interested in these stories, I
got gradually into the inside of same. For this reason, I was able
to observe, in an entirtiy different light, all the inside structure,
which prevailed in Frunce and Eurone during the past 5 or 6 years.
For the reason that 1 had previously gone over to urope on seral
occasions since l9l4, I had known a great deal of the circumstances
on the European Continent. It was yet after ray study about that
land for a few years, as I said before, on the latest occasion that
I felt I understood Europe in its actual conditions. Mr. Coty,
president of the Porfume Co., attempted to divulge the structure
of the secret society of Jews, but he was unsuccessful in the work,
and furthermore lost his position. He was driven into oblivion
in both political und economic circles of that country. Although
the name of Coty is still remembered by the people in France, the
perfume co. was wholly taken over by Jews. Moreover, the news-
paper offices, which had been carried on under his munugement us
his lifelong work, viz. "The Figaro", morning paper "L' mi du
Peuple" and the evening paper "L'mi", the 3 large dailies, were
also occupied by Jewish capital. He had to seclude himself up-
stairs in a garage on a hill and uied a miserable life. This
gentleman and Mr. Dr. Oltz(?) of the Stundard Oil Co. used to
admit me into details of their secrets in appreciation of my treat-
ment in saving their lives, while ill, and told me numerous inside
stories. I also obtained information from Mr. Farmer(?) who carried
202
an English name but who was actually a Frenchman. He lived in
Emfurt in Germany, and managed a News office which devoted to the
exolusion and repulsion of Jows. Under the auspices of Hitler
he published the "Service Mondial" News.
3
0
Now,

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
i, I intend to mention, in a brief manner, all the
ation I got from the ubove sources. In this connection,
or, I have to add that notring is included arising from my
ective views, and that ull my statements refer to what I
ve heard or what I have observeu. Ther always exists the
bestion of what should be done towards the Jows ufter having
discussed their problems, put I willnot touch upon this on this
occasion. nother thing 1 v to point out lore is the tuct that
the Jews hold two-thirds of tr money resources or ti vw!ule world,
and in asmuch as they ur: deeply in iver. quarter of the social,
political, oconomic, industrial an very other structures the
world over, it will take at least  hours ven to iv only a
summary of th: influence and the social position of the Jewish
population. There ure 40 or 47 bou I lave so rur written on their
problems and, under the circumstunce, i c nnot. ive even a short
resume of what I wish to conv y to you tocy. s I un allo..ed
only an hour here, 1 vill extr ct only most important matters and
give you a rough sketcl of Jwisl questions. if you uesire to go
Into detuils, I woula recommmend you to read over Volume No. 1 to
No. 5 of the series entitlea "otudy on International Secret Power"
published by the International -olitical nd Economic Society at
the Saiwai Buildin. cse to  ccver Jeish problems in a most
exhaustive manner and are the nost reliable editions in the world.
I have thus far mentioned the otive whici pronpted me to take an
interest in Jewish problems and the ources rron which my knowledge
is derived.
It is very difficult to secure the informution I intend to
give here while in Foreign countriee, and as a ma ter of fuct a
number of our peo le have gone nd are goins to tiese countries
for the prosecutior of study and rosurches in various quarters
but they ootain or. cticully no inforration about Jews. This is
because the Jewish auestions ure someti ing like uir. e cunnot
see air but have to breathe every minute. we cun maintain our
lives on the strength of air und yet cannot recognize it. In the
same manner, reople will not tell us ubout Jewish questions on the
European Continent, as nobody will pcint cut the existence of air.
Everybody on that Continent knows every detail of the question and
feels too stale to tell such ti ings upon se ing new Japanese.
The question is so conmon there, and it vill be only those who have
a special interest in the problems that will beccms fumiliar with
same, while it will be pructicully imoo sible to obtuin any inform-
ation by those who are uisintere ted.
SHANGIIII IS PHE HEAD U.LTE.  OF TE JE..IS.. INFLUENCL I THE ORIENT
I have a friend who has lived in Shanghai ror more than 30
years, and yet he aous not know the plain fact thut all the rail-
ways in China have been constructed wholly with Jewish capital. This
is just an example of innumerable similar instances. In like manner
Jewish problems are left entirely untouchod by those who are not
interested even when they go over to the place of Jewish activity
on the Continent. I cured Dr. Cltz iroiu his illness which was
chronic with him for 50 years by following a food-cure method which
is characteristic in our country. While I was in and out of the
family I became thoroughly familiar with him and picked up for dis-
cussion all sorts of questions, such as, what would be the future of
Japanese

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
Yen Exchange; what about the future of the depreciation
no and so forth. Those problems were being seriously con-
se only by the highest class or people, which enabled me
alk about such matters also. I have continued to live there
the past lo years, and as it is easier for me to carry on my
ork there, I am intending to sail buck to France this autumn.
About & years ago, when I got back here, I was appointed to be in
charge of the culinary affairs of a certain Prince Family here, and
I was cordially instructed by the frince to stay awhile in this
country for the purpose of promoting a system for improving national
health through food channels. Under the circumstances, I have been
serving at the Food-Nutrition Society in Tokyo, which is a Found-
ational Juridioal Person.
Now, I will take up the question of what influence is being held
by the Jewish population in the world, what they are attempting and
what organizations they carry for the execution of their plans, and
also what will be the destiny of the China Incident.
First of all, I shall mention, as a meber of the International
Political and Economic Society, our views on the future of the China
Incident. while I am also a member of the International Politioal
and Economic Society, r. Unosuke wakamiya was the leader whom we
reverenced as the highest scholar and the most qualified among our
fellow-men. To our regret he died only some time ago. ns things
now stand there is nobody in the Society except me who can discuss
Jewish questions in the public. Of course there are a number of
men of this class in the army and Navy Headquarters, but they are
not in a position to discuss these questions in the public. On the
other hand, one of our superiors, Mr. No .kaike, member in the House
of Peers, is giving his assistance for the cause of the Society as
one of the directors in same. ts is, however, too busy and cannot
come out as freely as I can. As other persons are busy in their work
and cannot cone out, it often hanpens that 1 am compelled to make
my appearance. I take this onportunity to mention that the inter-
national political and economic society is maintained by Mr. Masao
Maoda who is a hidden businessman. He cast away several thousand
yon out of his own pocket and is editing quarterly a year a large
pamphlet, entitled "Study of international secret power", based on
the information obtained from ail quarters of the world by our 7
or 8 collaborators during the past lo or more years. By referring
to these volumes, therefore, you will be able to get a complete
idea of Jewish activity in the world. Especially in later issues,
a wide range of intelligence news about their activity is given. Wo
feel, therefore, the series is the only one in the world which im-
parts a thorough knowledge about Jewish activity. This is because
in Europe only fractional news are issued about their work, whereas
none issued in a systematic manner. Through the good will of Mr.
Masuda, who expended a large sum of money, such a series is being
published here, and we reconmond that Volume No. 1 to No. 4 are re-
ferred to by those who desire to obtain an advanced knowledge on
the question. Volume No. 5 is now in the hands of the printers. Al-
though up to the present the series was not offered for publio sub-
soription, we have come to recognize the importance of issuing the
books for public perusal, as a result of the so-called extraordinary
times, and are gladly accepting applications for subscription from
the general public. at the same time we oan offer suoh books as
is in Harbin at the present time, and whioh has been published by
the Political and Economic Society, as also "To divulge revolutionary
movements" and so forth. These books will furnish you with full
information

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
tion on Jewish undertakings. From the standpoint of our
ational Political and Economio Society (the conclusion may
according to the stand or various specialities), the China
dent may actually drag on for 30 years. Although actually a
ger period than the above may be involved, it cannot be any
morter. This conclusion can be arrived at from indications pre-
vailing on the European Continent.
Another very important item I should like to refer to here is
the faot that, according to the latest news which I have received
from Dr. Oltz(?) at Hakata during my return flight from Formosa,
the ciroumstanoes in France at the present time are such that he
recommended me to stay out of that country during the rest of this
year. Following the above suggestions he gave the date of August
isth. This probably means that, as a result of disagreement having
taken place between Hitler and Lussolini on the question of Czecho-
lovakia, the above date may be the dividing line between peace
and war, and that, if a war break out, Europe would be thrown into
horrible disorder this summer extending over the autumn. He was
no doubt good enough to send me the suggestion because, in that
case, I would not be able to keep up my business in France.
FRANCE IS A JEWISH KINGDOM
As to the power of Jews in the world, as I mentioned before,
noither Europe nor the U. S. can go without the help from this
mankind. First of all in France people get up in the morning, and
when they want to have a cup of coffee, they have to realize that
this commodity is monopolized by the huge Jewish trust under the
title of Maison Coffia(?). None but this coffee is being used all
over that country at all times without exception. when people want
to have a cup of milk or to have a lick of butter, they have to
understand that these are also manufuctured by large Jewish organi-
zations. Practically no other brands are found in that country.
In like manner, bread is supplied by the Dreyfus Co. which is con-
duoted by Jews. When some other grades are found on the market,
they have been manufactured by some subsidiary or affiliated companies
of the above Principal. The reason is that no other grades are
suitable for human liking. s mentioned above, the principal items
of food are controlled by Jawish capital and, in fact the French can
not maintain their living without the assistance of Jews. In other
words, they can neither eat bread, drink milk nor have a spoonful of
butter without Jewish cooperation. When Frenchmen desire to listen to
radio news in the morning, they have to know that all radio apparatus
has been made up by Jewish labour, and the majority of the broadcast-
ing stations in that country are being carried on by Jews. As a
matter of fact, there are only two Broadcasting Stations which have
been built by the Government. It is not too much to say that nearly
all Newspapers, whetrer in England or in France, are of Hewish under-
takings. Although I may be sidetracking mysslf here, mention may
be made or the Prinoipal Newspuper Offices in England which are of
Jewish capital.  First or all "The Times" which is genuinely Jewish.
Noxt come"The Daily Telegraph", "The Morning Post", "The Daily Mail",
"The Daily Express", "The News", "Chronicle", "The Daily Herald",
"The Manohester Guardian", "The Evening", "The Standard", "The Star",
"The Evening News", "The Sunday Despatoh", "The Daily Miller", "The
Sunday Times", "The Daily", "The Sketch Walker". In fact,there are
several

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
tens of them, and they, headed by "The Times" are all of
organizations. The famous Reutar service of the Reuter
raph is being carried on by Baron Reuter, who is a Jew.
prance there are also large newspaper organizations, such as
Tomps","L Ami du Peuple", "The Fuchi"(?), "The Parisian Puohi"
T), "Le Journal du Matin", "L'Humanite", "The Popurail"(?), "The
Roviow Bric"(?), "Yale Nuebal"(?), etc. They all belong to the
Jews, and the only one which is not Jewish is the "action Franoaise".
Whon people come out to the street, and want to hire a taxi, they
will have to find that they are all Jewish such as Citroyen, Fiat(?),
Chovrolet and so on. In purchasing gasoline, all supplies are
Jewish, there being no other source of supply. Nothing ut all can
be done without Jewish supplies. The same holds good with the
cinema industry. The rate Nuttan, the Gaumont, the Fox, the
Paramount, the Universal, etc. are all of Jewish establishments.
At the same time, long-living cinema stars such as Clark Gable,
Chaplin, Dietrich, Greta Garbo, nnabella are all Jews. No one
but Jews can be world-wide cinema stars. The performance industry
is practically monopolized by the Jews. at night people will have
to use electric bulbs made by Jewish organizations and no other.
NOT A DAY DAWNS IN JAPAN WITHOUT JEWS
The same holds good in our country also. we cannot get the
enjoyment of cinema performances, or theatrical plays without
Jewish cooperation. The Mazda Lamp, the Tokyo Electric Light Bulbs,
the Japan Electric Bulbs, the Daido Electric Bulbs, tre Osaka
Eleotric Bulbs and so forth are all manufactured by Jewish capital.
In fact, about 85% of electric bulbs consumed in our country are
turned out by Jewish organizations. we cannot walk on the street
at night without the help of electric bulbs bearing the brand of
"Mazda" which is the Jewish designation for tre God of light. In
fact, all Jewish spell and influence surround our cownunity on all
sides. The case in France of Screen performances is the same in
our country. There are the Paramount and otler organizations
operating here, and trey are, more or less, of Jewish elements.
To say the extreme, we may not be able to get our living without
Jewish help. During summer we used to employ electric fans branded
"G E" up until the recent past. This organization is the head-
quarters of Jewish electric industries. While we were obtaining
a cool breeze during the long past, we had to pay approximately
¥5,o00,o00,o00.- to Jews. In the early part of the meiji Era, the
capitai was ¥5o0,O0o.- (Ihe eiji Era started 1868), whereas it now
exceeds ¥50,000,000.-. hile we were enjoying a cooi breeze absent-
mindedly, a large amount of money wus taken up by them. Phe other
day when I was talking before a microphone at the Economic Club, I
notioed that it was brunded "G. ." ihis meant that we could not
talk about Jews thomselves witrout their assistance or without the
help of merchandise which has been turned out by them. with regard
to the medical science it is purely Jewish.
JBWS ARE ENDOWED WITH ENORMOUS ABILITY AND CAPABILITY
On the whole there are a number of famous scholars among Jews,
and most or the world-renowned ones ure of Jewish blood. Although
they are not endowed with such anormous ability, the rich class of
Jows invest money in promising youths, according to their inolination
for instance, if a young Jew appears to be fitted to the medioal
profession

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
a he is brought up in the line at a considerable expense,
man proves to have a very attractive opinion of human
which may be strong enough to dazzle the eyes or the world
enohant the thoughts of men, he is educated through the
of large sums of money until he is known all over the world.
 sorts of things are done in the same way as Jews will go to
large amount of expense in bringing up famous cinema actors and
otresses. They are faithfully carrying on their principle "Take
hold of every life and every piece of riches of the world in their
hands" whioh is thet 9th Article of their confidence. The present
thoughts in law and medical science are derived from the above.
Under this belief they have taken hold of the full funotion of
medical science biological science and so on. In this connection,
Rupnel(?), Foit(?), Wassermann, Bettencohel(?), Reichmann, etc.,
eto. are all Jews. also, in regard to political economy, Adam
Smith, who is regarded as the originator of the particular science,
or in the recent past, Marx, ngels(?), or Risher(?), Sligman(?),
Jeed(?) etc. also belong to the Jewish race. These men made up
politioal economy of commodities into a system, thereby destroying
the Oriental thought of life.
THE HISTORY OF CRIMES OF JES
It may appear to be quite unnecessary to despise or repulse
them if there are a large number of men of particular merit among
Jews. It must, however, be remeubered that, since the inauguration
of human history, the Jews comaitted numberless crimes wherever
they went. In the first place they killed Christ. Although Christ
was a Jew they killed him. In addition, in every revolution and
commotion, whicr took pluce by the medieval period Jews were in-
variably involved. The big revolution of France was wholly their
work, and Danton, Maller and Robespierre, who were the greatest
actors were all Jews. In this way they did the most horrible
things everywhere. Especially, Kerensky who was the leader in the
revolution of Russia in 19l7, as well as Jacob and Spelt(?) were
all Jews. It was the man Spelt(?) who locked up The Russian
Emperor and his family in the ground floor at Ekaterinburg and killed
them all. lso, those men who caused a revolution in Germany after
the Vorld Var and took possession of that country, I. e. Liebknecht
Rohor and Mrs. Luenburg were Jews. The eimar(?) Constitution of
Germany, which is in force at present, was muce up by a Jew called
Hugo. The reason why Germany took a drastic measure to drive out
Jews was because they wunted to recover the country for themselves.
When I go to this extent it ras often happened that, after having
heard me, one or two presented themselves before me and said that,
although they were told ubout Jewish movements during their stay
in England, the scale of their activity was not so serious as can
be interpreted from my remarks, and that Jews are not such a bud
people as can be imagined. In these instances, they pointed out that
my narrations go to an extremity. However, the plain fact that
Hitler took the drastic measure, as the first thing after taking the
rein of the country, for the purpose of dispelling Jews, thereby
creating such & remarkable sensation in the world, goes a long way
to indicate how important Jawish problems are. As a matter of mact,
Germany was said to have been kept alive in the hands of Jews.
By referring to the seriousness you will be able to understand the
whole

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
tuation. Although Hitler dismissed an innumerable number
8oo,Ooo or more or them have already come back to Germany
 time. It is extremely difricult to get rid of this race
sfully. When a bond has once been made it is extremely dir-
t to get away from them just in the same way as we cannot
ae qmestiom ir we endeuvour to sever relations with the
leetric enterprises which are under Jawish capital or with the
ramophone companies, such as the Columbia or Victor. In & similar
manner they are the sources of one kind of crime or other everywhere.
As the most phenomenal thing, I may mention that Frenoh President
Doumer was assassinated in l932 by a Jew. At that time President
Doumer went to the residence of the Rothchilds and, upon his leaving
the house, he was attacked by a Jew called Golkurof(?). In the fol-
lowing year, when Alexander the First landed at Marseilles, he was
killed by a Jew called Kelman with a pistol-shaped machine gun. At
that time the King of Yugoslavia, and Paltzee(?) Foreign Minister
of France who was in uttendance were instantly killed. Besides the
above, 1,900,000 of paople were massacred in Russia by 1932, and
just at the present time a violent storm of blood is raging in
that country, having Generals being killed one after another. While
this may be cited as an example of the relentless omuelty of Jews,
as I mentioned before, 1,900,O00 of good citizens were killed by
l932. At Bessarabia a large quantity of good citizens is being put
to death everyday. These things are not reported in any detail in
Japanese Newspapers, but actually ve are given to understand that
several hundred of farmers are being massacred in Russia by the
Jewish administration each day. This is because the farming com-
munity in different localities are strong and resolute in their at-
titude. For this reason, the Government is killing them ruthlessly,
and according to private information I am receiving from France,
the conditions in Russia are beyond description in bloodshed and
blood-thirstiness.
SOVIET RUSSIA IS A JEWISH REPUBLIC
The present Government of Soviet Russia consists of 6oo Jews,
out of which there are only 20 of the pure Russian race. 450 of
them are of purely Jewish blood, while the balance are half-Jews, and
Stalin is representing all of them. His wife is a Jewish female.
At the same time his pocket dictionary and adviser, Kaganowitch(?),
who wes formerly a cobbler, is also a Jew. Foreign Minister Lit-
vinorf who, carriss a Jewish name of Finkenstein was the ring leader
in attacking the Tiflis Bunk. Ensuing the incident he was put under
arrest in Paris, where he was inprisoned. In this way, Jews are do-
ing something in any parts of the world. As mentioned before,
people in France are under the spell of the Jewish race from morning
tili night, that is, from a cup of coffee to radio news at night.
As for political structure, the power of administration in every
country, excepting our Japan, is in the hands of Jews. Leon Blum
for instancs, who took the portfolio of Prime Minister in France on
many ocoasions, is a Jew. Not only the above, but the presidenoy of
the Philosophical Society, Chairmanship in both the lower and upper
houses, also high positions in the police system are occupied by
Jows.  The most surprising thing is the fact that, in France, there
is a secret society called "Free Mason" or which practically every
ono

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
一8 -
offieials is a member. Teaohers in primary sohools are also
Led in the Society. These members carry openly the badget of
Beeret Society. Regarding statemen in the Frenoh Government,
Se men who work at the Chambers or the Prime Minister, such as
menell(?), Fontaniye(?), Declusion(?), Juulmook(?), Hile Blonnel
T), Baron(?), Yuuk(?), Mrs. Mock(?), Osmin(?), Faure(?), Vuiore(?),
Daladier, Minister of the Army, Rukart, Minister or Justioe, Dormoy,
Minister for Home Affairs, Delbos(?), Foreign Minister, Oriole(?),
Finance Minister, Janzei(?), Minister for Education, are all members
of the Secret Society. This is really a surprising phenomenon.
While I claim that I am very well in a position to tell you about
things in France, I am not allowed the time today. I regret I shall
have to stop my story about that country here.
ENGLAND. TOU. IS A I.ICI KINGDOL. OF JE.IS
We will now go over to the opposite side of the Strait, i.•.,
England. Who is a famour Jew in England? The most well-known is
Chamberlain who was sometimes Prime inister, sometimes Finance
Minister. His younger brother Chamberlain, and in addition John
Simons, who is also an illustrious man as Foreign Minister on a
great many occasions, is & pure Jew. Marquis Halifax who is the
Chairman of the rivy Council, is also & Jew. Hailsham, one of
State Linisters, Samuel Hoare, Minister for home Affairs, Eden,
Foreign Minister, Delaware, Minister for Home ffairs, Malcolm
MacDonald, Minister for Colonies, who both father and son are well-
known statesmen. These are all Jews. Eden who took an adverse
attitude against our country to an appreciable extent some time ago,
is not a Jew, but is a favorite of Rothschild. In fact he was able
to hold the position only because he was backed up by kothschild,
in spite of his young age. At the same time, Crmsby-Gore, Minister
for Colonies, Sir T. Inskip, Minister for National Defence, Duff
Cooper, Minister for the Navy, the Minister for the Air-Force, the
Minister for Scotland, the Minister for Foreign Trade, Minister for
Agriculture and Fishing, Minister for Industries, besides the Minister
for Annuities are all Jews. Those who are not Jews are the Minister
for Sanitation, the Minister for Transportation, the Minister for
Labour, Minister for Communications. hereas these are not Jews,
they are under the influence of Jews as, otherwise, they are unable
to acquire the position of Ministers. In England, the political
situation is like this. On the other hand, what is the position of
the economic circles in that country. This is totally uncer the
reign of Jews. In that country, the Bank of England is the heart of
economic activities. The man, Montague Norman who is famous for
assuming the presidency of the Bank on 17 occasions is also a Jew.
He is a very strange Jew. lthough h: was elected President of the
Bank for 17 office terms, that is, practically the master of the
Bank, he was never seen by anybody. ven the ablest newspaperman has
had no chance of taking a photograph of the man, and there is nobody
who met him.
THE POWER WIICH DISPELLD THE EX-EEROR
Mr. Eigo Fukai mentioned at the Economic Club some time ago
that he had great difficulty in having an interview with the man when
he went to London about 3o - 40 years ago. If Mr.  ukai met the man
at all, the party is said to be a substitute. There is only one man
from our country who met him. He is Prinoe Chiohibu. In other words,
Prince Chiohibu only received an invitation from Montague Norman, and
presented himselr at the gathering. However, it must be noted that,
on

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
ay all occasions, photographs are edited in newspapers of
rimce, but none was published in Japanese papers for that
oular gathering. He is such a mystical, and yet very power-
existenoe. In fact, before him even the King loses his dignity.
 train of men who surround the King consists of members of the
eretwmsee Mason", and under the ciroumstances, nothing can be
Cone without their approval. If un attempt is made on the removal
of Jewish inrluence from the political or economical circles of
England, it is certain that even the King would be treated like a
dog whioh has lost his master. The ex-Emperor of England was very
sagaoious and keen in his understanding, and was in the belief that
Jewish power should be eliminated when peace of the world is to be
•stablished. For this reason, he thought he should do something at
least to reduce Jewish power to &ny possible extent in his country,
in view of the strong foundation built up by the Jews. His in-
tontions were deteoted by Jews and was marooned in the long run -
an unprecedented event in the history of the world. He was first
invited to the U. S. where he was very warmly welcored by Jewish
elemonts, who made use of a Jewish female called Simpson in mis-
leading the ex-imperor. She caught him in her arms with charming
and bewitching ability, which is characteristic to Jewish women,
and was successful in pulling hin down from the fhrone by even
divorcing her husband. This problem flared up in the eyes of the
world and, though the activity of Simons(?) and Bishop Canterbury
and others, he was driven out of that Kingdom. He was then re-
ceived by the city of Vienna, which is one of the oldest Jewish
towns. In the city is the mansion of the richest man of the place,
the Rothsohilds. As a matter of fact their power and influence
are so strong as to treat kings even in the way they desire.
Shiff(?) who destroyed Russian mpire was also a Jew
It was a Jew, called Jacob Shiff, president of the Kuhn Loeb
& Co. or New York, who destroyed the Empire of Russia. He financed
the revolution, which broke out in October in that country, from
berinning to finish, with the funds of $4,oo0, ooo.- which he donated.
Botr Lenin and Kerensky were only successful in carrying on the
rev. lution by obtaining his funds. Nith their brutal force they
crus:ed the Russian Empire to pieces. Japan attucked that country
frol the east and smashed it us a result of the Russo-Japanes War,
but it must be noted that we could do so becuuse we were able to get
rinantial accommodation to the extent of ¥1,500,000,000 from this
Jacob Sohiff. You will note that we were used as a cat's paw by
Jews in smashing that mpire. Mr. Takahashi wrote in the Asahi
Newspaper having made his hearty acquaintance, but the fact remains
that this Jacob lent money so that Japan could fight only because
he desired the war to be carried on. Japan might not have been in
a position to finance such a big war, had he not lent the huge
amount of money. The money our country borrowed from him still
remains as bonds in foreign currency, for vihich we have already paid
3,O00,o00,O00 as interest. While securing & victory over Russia,
we have had to pay interest to Jews to the extent of ¥3,ooo, ooo,o0o.-.
The reason why he desired Japan to fight with Russia was because
the Emperor or Russia had previously massacred a large number of
Jews. ,Jacob Sohiff grew very indignant at this cruelty, because he
was a Jew hinselr. (He was the ringleader of Jewish plots to revo-
lutionize the whole world.) He expressed his indignation to the
then President Taft and urged him to sever diplomatio relations with
Russia and told him that he would not remain silent until his de-
mand was complied with. President Taft was not in full recognition
of his real power, and was hesitant for some little while. He then
bursted his temper and roughly said to shim that, in case he could not
do so, he would do it himself. The only man who was present on the
oooasion

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10 -
 was the famous so-called "permanent anbassador" Strauss,
 also a Jew. Jacob sprang up to his feet and dashed out of
with Strauss. He proclaimed general mobilization of all
sh journals and newspapers against Tart, who had to come down
Dats of nihilism in Russia. In the meantime, Schiff lent money to
Mr. Takahashi who had been there to get financial assistance. By
furnishing funds to his groups in Russia and also to our country, ho
fanned up the Russo-Japanese war. Under the circumstances, we can
conelude that Jews were instrumental in creating the Big war between
Japan and Russia.
THE U. S. PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT IS ALSO A JEW
Thus far I have mentioned about ingland, and will now dwell upon
the U. S. Here, President Roosevelt, who is in the height of popular
ity is also a Jew. Not only he declures himself to be but also is
shown as such in the Jewish Encyclop dia. For this reason, all the
Presidents who came into power following Taft, that is, the forier
Roosevelt, wilson, Hoover, Coolidge, including koosevelt, who has
the reign at present, are all Jewish. They could not have been
elected without the financial hel of Schiff. If a man is short of
4,ooo,ooo.- he could not declare himself to be a candidate for
the Presidency. ll these funds are furnished by Jewish elements.
The ex-President was only a faithful clerk for Jews, whereas Roose-
velt is a Jew in every respect. e may, say, therefore, that an-
other Jewish Republic has been organized on that Continent. In this
conneotion, we have to admit that all Presidents of the U. S. are in-
variably nothing more than puppets, the real wire-puller being a Jew
called Bernard Baruch, in spite of any change in the Presidency.
At the time of the vorld "ar he was the despotic financial dictator
and held the rein of finance. He managed to delay the U. S. in
joining the World War, only to participate in it in the final year
or hostility. In & word, his ability and power were such, and in
the meantime he gathered all riches and money resources for himself.
At the same time, it is well-known that the president of N R A,
which has been established for the reconstruction of the economy
of that country, is also a Jew. He is culled Donald Riohberg.
The highest legal adviser to the President of the U. S., i.e. Felix
Frankfurter, is also a Jew. He is a professor at the Harvard
University, and is widely known as being a Jew. His lecture at the
Harvard University on the subject of Larxism has affected the way of
thinking in the whole world. This man is t: e right arm of the U.S.
President. cn the other hand, his left arm is Samuel Rosenmann(?)
who is also a Jaw. Minister for Finance, morgenthau is a Jew. The
highest Judges at the Supreme Court, Brandeis and Cardozo are law
soholars whose merits are recognized to the fullest extent in the
world, are Jews. Miss Franoes Perkins, the Minister for Labour is
also or Jewish blood in spite of the nume Miss, while the acting
Ministers ltenmeyer(?) and Jurkowitz are pure Jews. In addition to
the above there is an innumerable number of influential Jews, in-
oluding Herbert Lehman, Governor for the State arNew York. In this
way, the upper structure of the political circles in the U. S. con-
sists of all Jews. On the other hund, in the sconomic circles, in
addition to the Kuhn Loeb group of Juoob Scr iff und the Standard
roup, all banks etc. headed by the International Bank, including
stato

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
Reserve Banks are in the hands of Jews. In this way nobody
Jows can do anything or importance in the United States. With
Er power it is only easy to have a command of any enterprises
weh are managed by those who are not Jews. s a case in point, I
y make reference here to a Japanese who founded a Bank in Seattle
 a result of having worked very haru for several tens of years.
This Bank, however, was smashed to pieces in about a year. This
was the case of the destiny or the only Japanese Bank in that
oountry. It was Jews who worked out the system of joint-stock
companies for the first time in the world. Under this method, banks
of any size can be organized without exhibiting their names. The
double-entry system of bookkeeping was also invented by Jews. Pay-
ment to order, "on order syster." payment to bearer, Bill of Lading,
Joint-stock, warehouse warrant, pill of exchange, draft, cheque,
inclusive of all such comercial devices were also originated by
the wisdom or Jews. Under these systems, any amount of commercial
transaotions can be carried on without showing Jewish names. With
money in hano, any banks or enterprises can be bought out or wrecked
down to pieces at any tine. Jews intend to take hold of every money
resource all the worlu over and, as a mattar of fact, they were
ingenious enough to find all such means for thenselves. Under the
ciroumstances, practically nothing can be attempted in the U. S.
Especially, the most horrible thing in the U. S. is the food or pro-
vision industry. The largest flour miil in the U.S., i.e. the
American Bakery is the Trust made up by Jews. If one intends to
got rid of Jewish influence in that country, he would be unable to
get his daily diet of bread. If, therefore, the company should
desire to put all mericans to death, this could possibly be done by
adding some little extra of nitrogen sulphide. ll other provision
companies in the U. S. are Jewish. In addition to the above, all
establishments for performances, cinema, communications, speeches
and news, telephone anu electricity are wholly occupied by Jews.
This is the present condition in the U. S.
IT.LY IS SU ROUINDD BY JS ON LL SIDES
In regard to the status of Italy, as everybody knows, Iussolini
is the biggest man there. He is not a Jew, but his financial cir-
oumstances are being helped on by the Goltman, Goltnan Sank of Milan.
Sulphitei(?) who wrote a book on the life of  ussolini is a Jew. At
the same time, Count Polliipp(?), who is said to be one of the warm-
•st friends of Mussolini is also a Jew. ussolini's right-hand man,
Suvitch, is a meuber of the Fothschilds. Besiaes the above, Count
Ciano, Linister for Foreign ffuirs, and Yung(?), Finance inister,
are also of Jawish blood. Count Ciano, who is the adopted son of
Mussolini, is an intimate friond of Leith Ross, who earned several
tons of million yen by effscting a radical reform in the currency
system of China. The latter is also & Jew. Balbo is very well known
as the Linister for ..ir-force, and ris hidden assistant, Lajor Davie,
and the highest commanuer for Somaliland and Ethiopia are Jews. All
war-bonds and other Government bonds or Italy have been subsoribed
by the Rothsohilds.
CHINA IS A DEPENDENCY OF JEWISH ELEMENTS
Now, we come buck to China. The Charteiud Bank, and the Indo-
China Bank, the latter of whioh is the detached force of the Banking
King, called Oras Finari of France, are alike Jewish. These Banks
have kept on operations in China most extensively. There is also the
morgan

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
12
Enk and, although Morgan himsalr is not a Jow, yot the
is Jewish. Besides the above, the Piokinson-Chase, the
I1 Finance, New York Trust Bank, the Continental Trust, the
tong & Shanghai Bank are all Jewish elements. Leith Ross, who
Jew, effected a reform in the currenoy system of China and
 that time Chiang Kai-shek put a great deal of money into his own
pooket himself, while all our bankers were losers. I will not dwell
upon this subject here today as it will rmake the story too lengthy.
I now wish to go over to the question of Shanghai and, in this
connection, the first question will be to look into what Jewish
finanoial influence there ras been in that district. The most well-
known is the Sasoon Fanily. ear the race course, the Sasoon House
is kissing the sky, and this is the lurgest building in Shanghai.
This is t e headquarters of Jewish capitalistic sovereignty. In this
building is the rnold & Coapany, the president of which is called
H. c. rnold. This an holas the strongest power among the Jews
in that town. On top of that, there is Leon Carshin, who is serving
on the economic reconstruction co....ittee of the Republic of China,
and this wan is of Jewisr offsnrins also and has been sent there by
tho League of Nations (I will not refer to the nature of the League
of Nations here but will si ply say that tris was founded by Wilson,
the then President of the U. s. who was a faithful servant to the
Jews) In this organizution, all the ureau Directors and chiefs of
the individual 3ections are Jews. Suppose that only one Japanese
proceeds to a place such as the abov: to discuss any subject, it is
pre-determined thut ris .otion .ill be voteu down by a majority of
13 against 1. .s those thin s ure not well unuerstood by our people,
envoys have been sent out, at a consiueruble expense, only to be
hissed down. The adviser to the Industrial Lepartment of crina, that
is, Cecil Etzlar(?) and Starring Fessenaen, Director of the Civil
Engineering Bureau of the Common Settlement in Shanghai, who gave a
lot of trouble to our troops by takine meusures to prevent them
from marching, are also Jews. I may particularly mention that the
British mbassador to China, Knatchbull ugesson, who repeatedly
pursued obstructive measures against our country and who was wounded
in the long run, is a Jew as you can see for yourselves by observing
his name. It is problematical why he drove to the Government of
Nanking where gun balls wer: flying. Rawfora(?), Bureau Director of
the Shanghai Customs, and Margei, French mbassudor of France, who
is showing great activity at the present time are Jews. In parallel
to those already mentioned, Leith Ross, who occasionally makes his
appearance there by the air route to coit misci ievous actions, as
also Roiman, doctor of medicine and the representative of the League
of Nations, are both Jews. Moreover, Victor Sasoon, President of
the Sasoon Banking Corporation is a pure Jew. Thus, you will under-
stand that, irrespective of whether private or public, any powerful
undertakings, which are being curried on in Shunghai, are, in 99 cases
out of loo, are owned or managed by Jews.
It may i rest you to learn that the mujority of the Bank Notes
of china were printed in London, and these are kept in piles in the
underground rooms of the Sasoon Building. It is impossible for our
army to reach the above stock, und this accounts for the fact that,
in spite of the fall of Nanking, Shanghai and so forth, there has
not been any remarkable depreciation in the value of Chinese currenoy
and that, on the contrary, our yen is lower in value, despite our
vietory. Chinese ourrency is actually British, and under the oir-
tmstanoes, we do not know whioh of Japan or China is winning from
an eoonomioal point or view.
JEWISH

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
-13-
WISH CAPITAL WHICH IS GETTING ON IN THE ORIENT
I have thus far drawn out my story at random, and you may feel
has not been well-shaped and properly arranged. However, I
met you have obtained just a general idea of what influence Jews
old in every partx of the world. Especially, there is a secret
society called the Free Mason, of which I have not been able to make
any partioular mention. This is a detached force or Jewish plotters
and intriguers who are planning to annihilate the entire world.
At the same time, communism and bolshevisn are also another group
of these plotters, and I may say that the structure of the "Free
Mason" is very closely and inseparably made up. It will take me at
least an hour to give an ideu of its structure, in which better
classes of statesmen, scholars, businessmen, financiers and what not
in the whole world are enrolled. s an accessory organization to
the above, there exists the Rotary Cluo. If I refer to this club,
I fear some of you may feel troubled. Lowever, inasmuch as some
showings were mude by oooooo ut the International Political Ex-
hibition which was held at the Takashimaya Dapartment Store some time
go, I will mention just briefly what this Club is. In fuct, the
Rotary Club is a branch groun of the Free Muson. hen people walk
about the streets in Tokyo especially in kobe, they will find a
number of houses having at the entrance the ark of the secret Jew-
ish society, which  ark is like this  In the miast of Ginza Street,
there is a cinemu-hall bearing this ark, while some of the players
who are attending the Olympic Game this time also carry same.
Strange to say, this ark is also shown on the back of the 50-sen
coin which is coming out shortly. whether you like it or not you
will have to observe it everyday. Ihis is the bauget of the secret
socioty "Free Lason". Such a thing is spreuding fur und wide. Parti-
cularly in Lanchuria, the  anchurian Uriuntal viation Co. is going
to be established with a capital of vloo,0oo,ooo.- which is to be
invested by a Jew of Germany called ..olff. The establishuent of
the largest aeroplane conpany under joint investment of Japan, Man-
churia and Germany created a sensation amon our citizans, es-
pecially in the financial circles of Toxyo, whicn sonsation was
published in various Tokyo Papers of Rovember l8th. You will sae
that the investor is a Jew. You may feel interesting to hear that
our rirst-olass businessmen are goin to invest Jewish capital to
the extent or ¥1,ooo,o0o,Oco.- in ..anchuria. .hen these programs
are realized anchuria will wholly be taken possession of by Jews
ooonomically.
FRICTIONS BETWEEN JAPANESE AND JEWISH THOUGHTS
It is through the wisdon of Jsws that work ts on speedily and,
as an individual I have no relation whatever with them, although
there is a large number of warn friends for me. I have to carry
thom in order to maintain y work either in Frunce, Germany or in
the U. S. and, us a matter of fact, they ure uwfuliy kind to me as
individuals. I do not say the Jews are a wicked people. lthough
Japan is said to maintain chivalrous spirits, this will not be
every national in this country becal se there ure a nuaber of weak
and treaoherous persons. In the sume wuy, it is not everybody of Jews
who are bad-natured. Lowever, over 1,soo Jews are holding sway,
and it 1s.only 2oo Jewish financial corps trat are o erating in
the highest financial organizations in the "orld. hen t ese Jewish
groups are collectively divided, they can be classified into 3 only.
First of all. the bunking group of nglund, secondly that of France
and finally the Kuhn Loeb group of the U. S. The above 3 hold two-
thirds of the money resources or the entire world, and for this
reason

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
fon nothing substantial can be acconplished without their holp.
On the other hand, Japanese thought. stand in dead oonfont-
tion against the Jewish, and it appears to be impossible to avoid
a frontal collision between the above two. I may say, for instanoe
that it is the Jewish intrigue to let China fight against us in
the present Incident, by instigating Chiang Kai-shek and others.
We will be greatly mistaken if we think we are righting with Chine
alone. The Chinese ure a people who will reudily change their
course for the sake of money, und it is Jews who are pulling the wi
•specially the Britist. and Frencr Jewish financial corps. Only
after the downfall of Chiang Kat-shek, the real actors will appear
on the stage. These players will come out from Soviet, England
and various other countries, and invariably they belong to one or
other of Jewish financial groups. Those who come out from the U. 
are necessarily Jews. Under the circumstances, we cun conclude the
it is Jews who are tormenting cur country by aking China a puppet.
Having had a erasp of the whole world alre dy, Jews are aiming at
our country which is the only one on the earth avoiding their spell.
China is in their hands b. now. The Jewish clobe is a very good
example, where a serpent surrounds the world and opens its wide
mouth on our country. Ihis is the symbol for the Jewish plotters
to have every country on the lobe in their hands. This has been
realized trrougr the intrigues of Jacob 3c iff, and every country,
practically speaking, in the world has been occupied by Jews, having
Japan only outside of their influence. Tre Jews combine their
raligion and auministration into one, and their doctrine goes on to
say "ill other ruces on the globe shall be our slaves". They try to
spread the principle of democracy, freedon and human love to stir
up individuals to action, to induce them to destroy their homes and
thus have taken hold of tre links rich existed between individual
countries and also betsen fumilis. They have rasped the whole
world economically, and tris has t en accomplished throueh the power
of money. hen we consider their ac ievements we have to pay rever
ence to their ability ana merits. I au not inclined to kick them all
out, nor am I afraid of thel, but must cautiou our people that some
of those, who study tre position of the Jews, are entertaining too
much apprehension about the. In my opinion, ho..ever, it is not
necessary to fear them to suct extent, but would urge you to recogni
the importance of studying their actual po..er and ubility in tuking
hold of two-trirds of the  one resources of the world and ulso in
grasping the royal funilies and the coverments of nearly every natio
only within a wery short period of 70 years.
Just some days ago I rad un opportunity to uke ention of these
facts for nearly half a duy at soe special olace, and was asked what
should we do in tris connection. I ispliea to the effect as mention-
ed to you just now.
WHAT SHOULD BE DONE BY US?
.s mentioned, it is i.uperative to now how they were succassful
in holding the rein in scientific, economic, political and other
circles, as well us to know what stcucture of activity trey have and
what ability and what history they Iold. fter knowing all these
faots, we should be in a position to uecide whut course we should
follow and what measures wa should take in treating the Jews. To
use extreme expressions, while our way of thinking is spiritual,
that or the Jews are materialistic. e value spirits more than
materials, and we value the country more tran individuals, whereas
Jows

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
-15 -
value materials in every instance. Money is everything for
. This means fire against water and it is impossible to get
ong with them, and a frontal collision cannot be avoided. The
resent China Incident is an eabodiment of this collision and,
unless the present trouble expunds into world-wide complications, I
oan prodiot that another world wur would take place in 1o or 15
year. As a matter or fuct, scouts of the future war in question
are already exchanging their bayonets everywhere -- disagreements
between father and sons in families, trouble and complications of
all shorts in societies. In other words, our country is having our
own civilization thinned by the materialistic principle and the
machinery civilization, which are the doctrine of the Jews. For
this reason, I believe we had better take a vantage of the present
to give a solution to this question.owever, in doing so it will
take at least 20 or 30 years. sconomic or spiritual wars would not
be brought to an enc in only lo or zo years. It is therefore of the
utmost necessity for us to r-cognize the fact that how deeply Jew-
ish influence is getting into our way of livin. In some country,
not only electric light, radio broadcastins, gramophone, cinema but
also the political and governuental frales have already been occupied.
In this connection I have another lot of story which woula surprise
you for certain, but I will not do so touay. t any rate, Jewish
problems are pressing the.uselves on our circustances. In view of
this fact, some of our peopl: are desirine to make use of tham, but
it must be noted that there has been noboay wno succeeded in such an
attempt at any time. Bisnarck was successful in acquirine the ele-
vated position by making use of Jus, but aicd a miserable death
because he made little effort in checking down the Jewish influence.
Napoleon comes next. He took a vuntaee of the Jews an, after having
fought the wars, he cliubed up to that position. Towever, at the
request of Jels he gave per..ission for the establishuent of the
French Bank, and when it was organized he proposed certain restric-
tions on the operations of the an. This enraged the Jews who
then wished to dischar e Napoleon fro.. power. ..ccordingly, they
lent money to wellington and Nelson. .s a result of the above,
he lost the battle at waterloo. In this way, everybody, who mede
use of the Jews, failed in the long run. Following Bismarck and Na-
poleon, the Kaiser of Ceruany was getting on all right while he
was using warburg, who was a Jew, as the hishest adviser. Nith the
occurrence, however of some disagreement with him towards the end,
his destiny began to fall down. The man called warburg, who is
the right-hand man of Jacob Schiff of the U. S., was a nephew of
the one by that name who was the highest auviser to the Kaiser. Up
until he was treating such a wun kindly the aiser was all right,
but in the later course re began to treat him badly. This caused
the U. S. to take part in the world war. In this anner everybody,
who desired to make use of Jevs, fuiled in the long run, and we now
have Chiang Kai-shek who is quickly oine to the ground in his at-
tempt to taae aivantase of the Je..s.
JEWS OF JAPAN
Although this may be un insignificant incident, I must say that
the electric ccmpany of our country hus now been fully occupied by
Jews. This was also the case with the Sokyo (双  ), .ireless
orrice whioh was built by the itsui after huving paid several tens
of millions of yen. I have, therefore, to warn you to be very
considerate in attending to Jewish problems. Of course, I admit
that

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
-16 -
re are a good many businessmen in the Osaka district who
t yield to Jews in business operations with their sharp wit
Sility. These persons are, I understand, niokmamed Mr. "Tsuji".
ionally there are Lr. Great Tsuji(s). These people are doing
 well, although I do not know whother trere are any or these
n in Tokyo. Nearly all foreigners in Kobe are Jews, with whom
those Mr. Tsuji(s) are coping in business. I think we must depend
upon these Lr. "Tsuji" or purticularly midole "Tsuji", as they will
not be easily beaten by Jews. Lowever, the Great, middle and small
"Tsuji(s) were dumbfounded some time ago.  man called James, who
was the anager of the Caeron & Co. of kobe, and who was also a
Jew, made volumes after volumes of sules at the Kitahama Exchange
since the year before last, and sustained a loss of several
willions of yen, but he continued to sell persistently at and after
the occurrence of the China Incident, und earneo a hundred and
several tans of illions of yen.  srs. Great and small "Tsuji"
had their hearts shrunk in the. The foreigner was reputed to
commit suicide at any time, and yet re paia out cheques for several
millions of yen each time, und tre paying bank was the Hongkong &
Shanghai Sanking Cor oration. It uppears as th ugh he did not mind
at all any price fluctuations in the liit-d business in this country.
as there are such pe sons, we sl ould be very pruaent in our behaviours.
OUR ONLY EPON- HEALTH
ith the foregoing I think I have to close y story, and wish
to take this opportunity to emnhusize the fuct thut our only wsapon
under the national crisis is healtl vecause, without thi, we are
sure to be beaten b Jews even if we have sufficient alounts of
money at our disposal or any desiraole policies for practice. In
fact, there are many ased Je.s - ec or gc years - who are yet active
in business. Rebube Rue(?), Presicent or the Philosophical Society
of France is 97 years old. seing in his important position, he
travels around the world by air-routes to make his lectures. Jews
generally maintuin a lone life, und the opposite is the case with the
Japanese. This is already sufficient proof of cur inferiority. The
average life-table for our people is 44 against 59 of the mericans.
we are thus beaten by more than 10 years. In our country 45o out of
looo youths are udmitted npt up to the stanaurd for conscription.
There is no other country on the earth like ours. It is very re-
grettable to not that more tran half the youtl's ure nferior in
bodily construction. Tris is evicently the result of the .isleading
Jewish science which insists on so many , raus of altumen, so many
grams of fat, so many gruns of vitamin and so forth. rese srould
not be taken as a reliable standard for diet. When a pirson becomes
sick, medicine and amputation or other similar trines are resorted
to under the Jewish scientific princinle. It is the specialty of
such Jewish science to restore to heult! only when a man tets sick.
In other words, foreign medicution is the aalinistrutor of health
bankruptcy. It affords measures for monding broken Lealth in an
endeavor to extend life as much as possi ble. Our enueavours to
waintain good health by such euns will naturally be fruitless in
the same way as we ask for aavices what steps s ould be taken to make
our business prosperous to a lawyer ro is xclusively for bunk-
ruptoy. You can go to foreign sdicution when your health is im-
paired, but it will be impossible to aintain one's healthy existence
thoroby in which case he should go to some other lirection. General
Matsui was suffering from intestinal trouble and uskea me to cure
within 3 montrs. I gave him advices und cured hi only in 3 weeks.
At

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
一17 -
me he had a failing memory, and it was evidently from
There is a certain class of food which destroys one's
to an appreciable extent. There is also the class of food
Sends out hairs on one's head. You are eating food in-
Aminately. General Matsui restorsd his health in only 3 weeks,
oh onabled him to do the reat work in the autunn of that year.
 is living on food. There is ne life where there is no food.
 shall not get sick if we eut Japanese food. However, when we
change our daily diet to apples, mil, butter, beefstea and so
forth under the direction of the misleadine Jewish medical science.
You will note that today at this table you huve taken 2 items
among others, one of which tukes off your memory very reudily, while
the other sends off hairs. You did not now tris in taking these
items. It is therefore necessary to ret uway from the mistaken
Jewish ideas and to tuke & correct dist for us, and tris srould be
the first essential for ursuance efore e go on with a study of
Jewish activity. This is uy sp-cialty of fooc nutrition, and I
get y living easily on the uroceun Continont.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
AM/C
EA
LC
Tokyo, March 13, 1939.
No. 3742
SUBJECT:
REPORT CF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE
MONTH OF FEBRUARY, 1939.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the
Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for the month
of February, 1939.
Respectfully yours,
89
800
Joseph C. Grew.
JE:C
C
Enclosure:
0
1/ Report No. 149.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
n
"
Moscow
"
Chungking
Consulate General, Shanghai
”
n
19
Mukden
n
Harbin
19
n
Seoul
3
Consulate, Kobe
5
9"
Osaka
n
Dairen
1"
" Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet.
In quintuplicate to the Department.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/220
despatch # 3714
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED
Mar. 1, 1939
TO
NAME
1-1187
894.2027
REGARDING: Proposed legislation to suppress Industrial Espionage:
Report concerning -, fifteen categories of information
listed in article 2 of the bill as reported in the Press.
aa
51
