894.404 Social Matters., Japan, Religion. Church., January 6, 1945 - August 22, 1949 (File 1757)
ID: 894.404-1757   Pages: 90   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.404-social-matters-japan-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
32095
Co.6, School Bn. Bidg: 3
State
Ft. Snelling i, minnesota
Januery 61945
Dear mr. President:
Iaman Amerian of Jopontst gocastay. Although I am proud
Fhose Privikeges. Thatpur-
F
Bose is to brings Christ to the Japanesegptep rems are in great need
R
of Him. I long to see the day when they will worn for the Lord
T
with the same teruent vigor they ore utilizing in voirn for thrii
5
N
So calkd "God Emprror?
E
In recent times our forces have not anly recaptured many of
our former territorris but hove olso captued enemy trrritorris.
Believint that the fundamental and basic wrong" of the Japanese
N
G
people his with theis seligions I am wondering whether a pro-
gram is under woy to deal with the xligrous side of their
11
life. With more terri torirs and grisoners cominig into our hand
each doy,I beltive a program to deal with theis klagiaus life
M
is necessary and vital for the welfare of all.
N
If there is a program under way, I will apprciate it
N
it you can inform me as to where I can get intormation
concerning it and how one may get into such a wort.
May Bod continve to guide you in 1945.
APR 171945
894.404
FILED
A
Tours in Christ,
R
M
BOR -  Uait
Welson Tumataka
2
Oat.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDAR
DATE:
March 23, 1945
TO
PL
FROM :
JA
Reply to Mr. Kumataka's letter
SUBJECT :
of January 6 to the President.
We find no letter in our files which
would serve as a precedent for a reply to
Mr. Kumataka but suggest that your letter
to him might be along the following lines:
"Your letter to the President of
January 6/regarding the religious
life of the Japanese people has been
referred to this Department for reply.
"It is our hope that after the war
a situation can be created in Japan
wherein there will be true freedom of
religion in that country so that the
Japanese people may have a full and
free opportunity to learn the teachings
of the Christian religion and of all
other religions. As the President
said in a statement released to the
press on March 14, 1944: "We on our
side have made freedom of religion
one of the principles for which we
are fighting this war".

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD
DATE:
TO
FROM :
-2-
SUBJECT :
As you express an interest regarding
the religious life of Japanese war prisoners,
it occurs to us that you may wish to communicate
with the Prisoners of War Information Bureau,
Office of the Provost Marshal General of the
War Department, which has jurisdiction over
such prisoners.
I regrel th. lhay
hea meply
FE
JA: BRJohansen: KMB

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
STAND
TO
: Mr. Dickover
MAR 21 1945
FROM :
M.V. Trent - PL
SUBJECT :
Attached is the letter referred
to in our telenhone conversation.
PL would be glad to have instructions
or a copy of your reply for precedent
use.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
Apr1116,1945.
In reply refer to
PL
My dear Mr. Kumataka:
Your letter to the President of January 6, 1945
regarding the religious life of the Japanese people
40
has been referred to this Repartment for reply.
It is our hope that after the war a situation ean
be created in Japan wherein there will be true freedom
of religion in that country so that the Japanese people
may have a full and free opportunity to learn the
teachings of the Christian religion and of all other
roligions. As the President said in a statement released
to the press on March 14, 1944: "We on our side have
made freedom of religion one of the prineiples for
which we ere fighting this war".
f
As you express en interest regarding the religious
life of Japanese war prisoners, it ocours to us that
you may wish tc communicate with the Prisoners of War
Information Bureau, Office of the Provost Marshal General,
War Department, which has jurisdiction over such
prisoners.
I regret the delay in this reply.
Sincerely yours,
Tor the Secretary of State:
1
J. M. Colton Hand
Chier, Publie Views and
Inquiries Section
Division of Publie Lialson
Mr. Wilson Kumataka,
AFa 13 .3405
Co. G, School Bn., Bldg. 34,
Fort Snelling 1l, Minnesota.
APR 16
045
m
4/12/45
PL:MVT:CHand:vb

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
02f1c0 of
DEPARTMENT,OF STATE
ASTERN AFFAIRS
2
JAPANESE
21945
APR-3 1945
DIVISION OF FARXEASAXERNK AFFAIRS
March 28, 1945
CION OF SOUTHWEST
PACIFIC AFFAIRS
APR 3 1945
FE:
OFFICE OF FAR
The dangers involvedarmnmsing dogmatic assertjona
ar
well illustrated by the following quotations:
J. J. Rein, an eminent German scholer of the last
century, in discussing the Japanese Government's attempts
to revive Shintoism and vith it to supplant Buddhism in
Japan, wrote in his volume "Japan" (1888):
Bilow
"It was indeed a very short-sighted and
vain attempt...there is hardly any relicion
which 1s more hollow and less able to afford
satisfactlon then Shintoism...But there is
another reason that n.akes the revival of
894.404/3-2845
ment Must Be Returned To
Shintoism impossible. As long as the Japanese
Burcau 
people, withdrawn from foreign iufluences, was
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
kept in slavish subjection, and the Mikado lived
AUG 18 1952
in such retirement that only a few of his sub-
Jects ever lappened to see him, the old myth
ASSISTANT SECRETAFY
of his divine descent with all its consequences
Uepartment of State
could be kept up; but this belief could not rut
disappear more and more when the monarch tore the
veil and showed himselr like other men. Since
then the awe-struck reverence which previously
did not even dare to utter the name of the ruler,
has been gradually transformed into simple loyalty
which recognizes and performs all of the duties of
a good citizen towerds the ruler oi the country,
but is far from deifying him."
W. E. Griffis, in she chapter entitled "Japan in
1894", in his work "The Mikado1s Emplre" (l9u0) wrote
ss follows:
"Japan as wonder-land is as surnrising in
things vanished as in things created during these
forty years. Gone are Tycoon, the duarchy, feudalism,
the old codes, customs, ideals, personalities."
Erle R. Dickover
3
2845
JA: EnDickover: MP

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.95)
Frou: Harold H. Tittmann, Vatioan
ACTION: SE
City
INFO:
Despatohed: September 10, 1945.
s
0
UNRESTRICTED -Z
Reccived:
Sept 18, 6 pm.
C
ESC
EUR
FE
Seoretary of Stete,
DC/L-C
SFP20 1945
SWP-2
Washington, D. C.,
FC-1&
OPI
A-39, Septenber 3, 1245.
PL
INI
A-M
The OSSERVATORE ROMANo of Septeuber 8, 1945, carries the
SPA
following artiole on page 1, colwin 1:
SA
SA/GN
(Translution)
SA/M-2
894.404/9-845
"FROM CATHOLIO MTSTOMS IN JAPAN - Wh1le 1t 1s
confirued that with the end of the war the missions in
Jopan are resuming their liberty of aotion, we also
have nows that the Catholic missionaries who hed been
interned durlng the war are all safe, that they have
already regainod thoir liberty and are gradually
returning to their daties.
5
4
"A telegrem from the Apostolio Delegation at Tokyo
3
to the Congrogation of Propagande Fide (at Rome) reports
that the Bishop of Ne asaki, His Excellenoy Mgr. Paolo
a
Aijiro Yameguohi, and the Apostolio Administrator of
Li
Miroshima, Mgr. Luigi Akira Ogihara, of the Sooiety of
1.7
Jesus, are safe end well buceuse at the time of the
destruction of those citles they wore on a special mission
to the Talend of Celobes in the Dutch East Indies.
"Although exaot news is still lacking, one oan
surmiso that tho atonio bomb, whion deatroyed a large
portion of tho City or Naganaki, also ocused many viotims
among Japanose-Catholics, ns it is known that the Diocese
of Nagasaki is tho one which hus the greatest nwaber of
Catholics in Japan and in whioh more tian one-half of all
Japenose-Catholios ere livins. Japanese-Catholics in the
neighborhood of Nagasaki who, in consequenoe of a terrible
persecution, had been loft without priosts at she begin-
ning of tho 17th Contury romained faithful to the church
for more than two centuries und shortly aftor the maddle
of the l9th Contury constituted tho first nuoleus othe
plaoe foot again in the country of ths Rising Sun.
261945
The Diooese of Nagasaki was also the first to have a
native

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Airgrem 39, Sopt. 8, 1945.
native bishop who was conseorated at Rome by Pope
Pius XI in 1927."
The foregoing article was roleused to the looal press
by FIDES, the neWS agoncy of PROPAGANDA FIDE, namely the
Congregation of the Holy See which, under the direction of
Cardinal Fumasoni-Biondi, ls charged with the supervision
of Catholio missions in foreign countries.
TITTMANN
FCG:bd
711

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.94)
tJAs
No. 444
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
Kogra
UNRESTRICTED
OF THE
0 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
REKy
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Vatican City, September 27, 1945.
LIAISON OFFICE
hle
Subject:
Request from the Holy See that Catholic
Churches and Schools in Japan be
exempted from requisition.
18a
18E
The Honorabde
1GC
The Secretary of State,
Sow
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
894.404/9-2745
I have the honor to transmit herewith a copy and
translation of a Verbal Note dated September 24, 1945,
from the Holy See, in which it is requested that the
few Catholic Churches and schools that remain intact
after the bombardments in Japan and which are hardly
sufficient for the requirements of the faithful be
exempted from requisition for use by the occupying
troops. The Note goes on to say that included in
this request are Catholic Churches and schools which
are at the present time inactive owing to the temporary
absence of their missionary personnel.
Respectfully yours,
Hane H. Titmam
CS
Harold H. Tittmann,
Assistant to the Honorable Myron C. Taylor.
LE
Enclosures:
1. Copy of Note No. 5963/45,
dated Sept. 24, 1945
from the Holy See.
CCT 101945
2. Translation of above Note.
19/19/45 Rec/ac
800
H.H.Tittmann/ah
UNRESTRICTED
el
eo
N0V 11945
CYLA

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 444, dated September 27, 1945
COPY
SEGRETERIA DI STATO
DI SUA SANTITÀ
N. 5963/45
Nota Verbale
Seconda quanto é stato riferito alla Santa Sede,
le poche Chiese e scuole cattoliche rimaste indenni
dai bombardamenti in Giappone ed appena sufficienti per
le necessità dei fedeli potrebbero essere requisite per
uso delle truppe di occupazione.
La Segreteria di Stato si permette, perciò, di
ricorrere ai buoni uffici dell'Ill.mo Signor Harold H.
Tittmann, "Consigliere Diplomatico", Assistente di
S.E. Myron C. Taylor, affinchè dalle competenti Autorità
siano prese le opportune disposizioni per evitare l'eventuale
requisizione di chiese e scuole cattoliche, non escluse
quelle che non hanno ancora ripreso a funzionare
regolarmente per la momentanea assenza del personale
missionario.
Data infatti l'eccezionale scarsità di trasporti, il
ritorno ai rispettivi posti da parte del personale
missionario, già internato in campi di concentramento, non
si può che effettuare lentamente.
La Segreteria di Stato ringrazia anticipatamente
1'Ill.mo Signor Harold H. Tittmann per quanto potrà esser
fatto nel senso sopra indicato e ben volentieri si vale della
circostanza per rinnovargli l'espressione della sua più
alta e distinta stima.
DAL VATICANO, 24 Settembre 1945.
A true Copy
f the sgned
(Seal of the Secretariat of State of
nal al
His Holiness)

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 444, dated Sept. 27, 1945.
TRANSLATION
SECRETARIAT OF STATE OF HIS HOLINESS
No. 5963/45
Verbal Note
According to reports received by the Holy See, the few
Catholic Churches and schools remaining intact after the
bombardments in Japan and which are hardly sufficient for the
requirements of the faithful might be requisitioned for the
use of the occupying troops.
The Secretariat of State of His Holiness takes the liberty,
therefore, of appealing to the good offices of Mr. Harold H.
Tittmann, "Diplomatic Counselor", Assistant to the Honorable
Iiyron C. Taylor, with a view to having the competent Allied
authorities take the necessary steps to avoid the eventual
requisitioning of Catholic Churches and schools, not excluding
those which are at the present time inactive owing to the
temporary absence of their missionary personnel.
In fact, in view of the extreme scarcity of transportation,
the return to their respective posts of the missionary personnel,
who have been interned in concentration camps, can only be
effected slowly.
The Secretariat of State of His Holiness thanks ir. Harold
H. Tittmann in advance for whatever he may be able to do in the
above sense and is happy to take this occasion of renewing to
him the expression of its highest and distinguished esteem.
FROM THE VATICAN, September 24, 1945.
(Seal of the Secretariat of State of
His Holiness)
Mr. Harold H. Tittmann
Diplometic Counselor
Assistant to the Honorable Myron C. Taylor
2, via Boncompagni, Rome.
A true Copy
of ed
orimal al

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FOREIGN ACTIVITY CORRELATION
October 19, 1945.
lou
SPECIAL WAF PROBLEMS
GIVISION
29-45
br
WP - Mr. lbert . Clattenburg.
061 90 1945
CPARTMENT OF STATE
liere is another letter similar to the last one I
sent you from the postolic Delegation. This one is
from the Secretary of the Holy See. Apparently we are
goin to be besieged with letters of this type from all
possible an les of the official Catholic Church.
I fail to see where there is any similarity between
the situation in Italy, which is a predominantly
Catholic country, and Japan, which is definitely not a
Catnolic country.
I think it would be a very cood idea to write a
letter to tn Honoraple Myron C. Taylor or to
Mr. Harold Tittmann, explainin: the views that this
Covernment takes on the affairs of the Catholic Church
in Japan so that our views could be tran smitted to the
Secretary of state for His Holiness, the Pope. I do
not think that we should acquiesce in the demands that
they make, since I still hold to the original thesis
set forth in my last memorandum to you.
081
V0:MhCarroll:ac
Attachment.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
October 15, 1945
A-
For vour information, it was
an Allied militery policy in Italy
to avoid ny reruisitioning of
Catholic schools or other Gatholic
pronerty. There was a case or two
in which the British military
did occuny a convent or seminery,
but this was contrary to directives
and soon ceased. Italv, however,
is a C-tholic country and we did not
heve any particular problem with
regard to other relibious nronerty.
At lenst I know of no cases where
Protestent churches or schools, such
few as there were, were taken over.
E4
SE: EHollinrshead.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
NOV 71945
UNRESTRICTED
AIR MAIL
51
Harold H. Tittman, Jr., Esquire,
Office of the
Personal Representative of the
President at the Vatican,
Vatican City.
Sir:
Reference is made to despatch no. 444,
September 27, 1945 enclosing a copy and translation
of a note dated September 24, 1945 from the Hoay See
894.404/9-2745
regarding property and personnel of the Roman Catholio
Churoh in Japan.
There is returned herewith the original of the
note in question which was received with the despatch.
There are also enclosed a copy of a letter addressed
to the Papal Delegate at Washington in response
to a similar request and of a letter to the Secretary
of War. It is suggested that the reply to the
Holy See follow the language of the communicgtion
made to the Papal Delegate at Washington.
Enclosures:
1. From Vatican,
September 24, 1945.
2. To the Papal Delegate.
CS/VJ
3. To the Secretary of War.
4 tras sony at
894.404/9-2745
sicsed sriat-
eo
NOV 6 1945P.M.
Bu
SFD: AECYattenburg: fig
10/29/45
11/5/45

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
DIVISION OF
. OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
STATE
TELEGRAM
TELEGRAPH SECTION
A
ΛCTION-JA
INFO:
122
S
IMK-551 -J
PLAIN
DC/R
U
C
Tokyo via War
FE
FC
Datod October 10. 1945
OIC
INI
Roc'd 9:38 a.m., 9th
L-B
A-R
SA/M
Secretary of Stato,
TU.
10/11/45 W TT
Washington,
Hf
894.404/10-1045
36, Octobor 10.
Lile
Fress here carrics sensationhl accounts of
Vincont's br adcast (ZA 6688) October 7 in rogard
to ab lition f Shintoism as Japanoso stato religion.
GHQ
Georgo How Qucon Information and Education Scction
is r ceiving number us inquiries as t
to dotails otc
and it w uld bo helpful if portinent information
could be sent us by toiograph.
ATCHESOF
BB
FLAIN
0CT151945
894.404

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.96)
PREPARING OFFICE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CLASSIFICATIC
Collect
MESSAGE:
Department of State
PLAIN
Charge Department:
Washington
Charge to
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
TOKYO.
FOR ATCHESON, POLITICAL ADVISER.
The pertinent parts of Vincent's broadcast referred
pe.
894.404/10-1045
paraphrases ofWNCC paper 150/4. The complete text or
the broadcast will be sent to you by mail.
QUOTE Shintoism, insofar as it is a religion of
individual Japanese, is not to be interfered with.
Shintoism, however, insofar as it 1s directed by the
Japanese Government, and is a measure enforced from
above by the government, is to be done away with.
People would not be taxed to support National Shipto
C
Shintoism as a state religion -- National Shinto, that
S
is -- will go...Our policy on this goes beyond Shinto...
LE
The dissemination of Japanese militaristic and ultra-
894.404
nationalistic ideology in any form will be completely
suppressed. And the Japanese Government will be required
to cease financial and other support of Shinto establish-
Byruen
ments UNQUOTE.
10-1045
V)
894.404/10-1045
yeo
A WTTurner: mp
10-11-45
FE
50m

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
THE FEDERAL COUNCIL
OF THE
CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN AMERICA
297 FOURTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 1O. N. Y.
BISHOP G. BROMLEY OXNAM.
PRESIDENT
REV. SAMUEL MCCREA CAVERT.
REV. BENJAMIN E. MAYS.
GENERAL SECRETARY
VICE-PRESIDENT
REV. ROSWELL P. BARNES.
HARPER SIBLEY.
October 11, 1945
REV. J. QUINTER MILLER.
TREASURER
ASSOCIATE GENERAL SECRETARIES
Mr. Hillis Lory
Room 356,
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
Files
Central
C/R
This Document Must Se Returned To
My dear Mr. Lory:
Herewith are the application blanks for travel for the
894.404/10-1145
four churchmen who are going to Japan.
We must ask you to fill in the number and date of the
passports and also the date of General MacArthur's cablegram.
We, of course, expect to pay the usual charges.
I think you will understand how urgent it is that these
men should leave immediately. I am hoping that they can get away from
New York by next Tuesday or Wednesday at the latest. So far I have
refrained from asking the President's office to intervene to obtain for
them the highest priority. Last year the President gave me a Class 1
priority on a similar mission to Europe. I hope we can obtain similar
priorities for these men on this mission but I do not want to go to the
President unless that becomes necessary.
As our offices will be closed on Friday and Saturday you
may reach me at my home, 5O Crow's Nest Road, Bronxville, N.Y. My telephone
number is Bronxville 2-3238. It may be important to let me know as soon as
you have definite information about transportation so that these men may be
promptly informed. They have their suitcases all ready and packed and should
be ready to leave on Tuesday but of course a final word would be appreciated
by them so that they may have twenty four hours notice.
Yours truly,
DC/R
AWarnshuiz
CSJEC
Anal
A. L. Warnshuis
Rev
Chairman
Committee on Arrangements
Cet.
AWW/J

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
THE FEDERAL COUNCIL
OF THE
CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN AMERICA
297 FOURTH AVENUE. NEW YORK 1O. N. Y.
BISHOP G. BROMLEY OXNAM.
REV. SAMUEL MCCREA CAVERT.
PRESIDENT
GENERAL SECRETARY
October 18, 1945
REV. BENJAMIN E. MAYS.
REV. ROSWELL P. BARNES.
VICE-PRESIDENT
REV. J. QUINTER MILLER.
HARPER SIBLEY.
TREASURER
The Offiee of the Fiseal Director
Attention Foreign Fiscal Affairs Section
Roem 441, Pentagon Building
Washington 25, D.C.
Sir,
File3
Central
The Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America enalose a
certified check for the amount of $5000 drawn to the order of the
Treasurer of the United States. This sum is to be exchanged for
Japanese currency and is to be used by Dr. Douglas Morton, Bishop
James C. Baker, Dr. Walter W. Van Kirk and Dr. Luman J. Shafer, who
compose the deputation under the joint auspices of the Fedsral
Council of the Churches of Christ in America and the Foreign
Missions Conference of North America, for only living and trans-
portation expenses while they are in Japan.
The character and purpose of the Mission is completely described
in the attached memorandum.
This Mission has been authorised by the War Department and endoraed
by the President for the purpose of conferring with Japanese Christian
leaders. We enclose a copy of the President's letter.
The Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in Ameriea has been
advised by the Department of State to issue this check for $5000 to
the Office of the Piscal Direetor of the War Department and that upon
receipt of the cheek the War Department will make arrangements to
authorise the disbursing officer in Tokyo to make payments to a
designated member of the deputation in local currency at a rate of
15 yen to one dollar which is the same rate applicable to the compu-
tation of troop pay. Dr. Walter W. Van Kirk has been delegated by
the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America to draw
these funds and he will be identified by his passport.
DC/R
The headquarters of the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ
CSJE
Anal
in America has agreed that the headquarters of the deputation will be
in Tokyo (c/o Rev. Tsunetaro Miyakoda, 6 Itchome, Nishiki-cho, Kanda,
Rev
Tokyo) and from Tokye they will travel to those points within the
E
Japanese Islands for which they may receive permiesion from the Allied
C
Cat
Commander.
Sincerely yours,
AlWarnshuin
cc: Mr. Hillis Lory
A.L. Warnshuis
cc: Mr. Paul F. McGuire
Chairman, Committee on Arrangements
1
For Deputation to Japan
0

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
C O P Y
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
October 16, 1945
My dear Dr. Horton:
I am happy to know that the Foderal Council of the
Churches of Christ in America and the Foreign Missions Conferende
of North America will send a deputation to Japan for the purpose
of conferring with Japanese Christians.
In my opinion, if Japan is to evolve into a peaceful
nation, with an international as against a nationalistic outlook,
she must understand and appreciate the religious forces of the
world. As General MacArthur so well stated following the surrender
of Japan on September 2, 1945:
"The problem basically is theological and involves a
spiritual recrudescence and improvement of human
character that will synchronize with our almost matchless
advance in science, art, literature, and all material
and cultural developments of the past two thousand years.
It must be of the spirit if we are to save the flesh."
Your deputation should in a large measure aid in
solving this fundamental problem facing Japan.
Very sincerely yours,
HARRY TRUMAN
(Signed)
The Reverend
Douglas Horton, D.D.,
287 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, New York.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
THE FEDERAL COUNCIL
OF THE
CHURCHES OF CHHIST IN AMERICA
297 Fourth Avenue,New York 10,N.Y.
Bishop G. Bromley Oxnam.
Rev. Samuel MoCrea Cavert
President
General Seoretary
Rev. Benjamin E. Maye,
Rev. Hoswell P. Barnes.
Vice-President
Rev. J. Quinter Miller.
Harper Sibley.
Associate General Secretaries
Treasurer
October 4, 1945
The President
The White House
ashington, D.C.
Dear Mr. President:
The enclosed memorandum explains the proposal to send four
representatives of the Pretestant Churches in America to Japan.
The representatives will be:
The Reverend Douglas Horton, D.C., Chairman, American
Councll for the World Council on Churches.
The Reverend Bisho James Chamberlain Baker, D.D., LL.D.,
Chairman of the International Missi nary Couno1l.
The Reverend alter W. Van Airk, D.D., xecutive Secretary
of the Department of International Justice and Goodwill
of the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America.
The Reverend Luman J. Shafer, Litt. D., Chairman of the
Japan Committee of the Foreign Missions Conference.
This proposal has been submitted to the Department of State,
and that Department, after consulting General MacArthur, informed
us yesterday that they have no objection to this deputation going
to Japan immediately.
We hone it will be possible for them to arrange to go within
the next few days.
e are addressing you in this letter to ask respectfully
whether you would give the deputation a letter expressing your
good wishes and your personal interest in this mission.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
The President
-2-
October 4, 1945
It was my privilege last year to make a similar visit to
the continent of Hurope. At that time President Roosevelt gave
me a letter of which I enclose a copy. That letter was most
helpful to me as it expreesed the President's interest in the
Christian churches of Eudope.
Suoh a letter, if you will consent to write it, may be
addressed to the Bev. Douglas Borton, D.D., 287 Fourth Avenue,
New York 1o, New York. Dr. Horton will be the leader of this
deputation.
Respeotfully yours,
A.L. NARNSHUIS
Cha1rman
Committee on Arrangements

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
October 14, 1944
Dear Dr. arnshuis:
I have lea ned with pleasure of your forthooming trip
to England in conneotion with plans for church work on the
Continent after the war.
It ought to bring hone to sorely tried churohee in
Continental urope to know thet their leaders will confer
with you and representatives of churohes from the liberated
countrles on the momentous task of rehabilitating spiritual
work in the stricken areas.
The mission which prompts your visit 1s indeed worthy
of all praise. May God speed and prosper the work.
Tery sinoerely yours,
FRANXLIN D. ROOSEVELT
(Signed)
Reverend Dr. A. Livingston arnshuis,
c/o The Federal Council of the
Churches of Christ in America
297 Fourth Avenue
New York 10, Nev York.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.86)
My demr Dr. Hortons
I am heppy to know thmt the "ederal Commell of
Choreb-s of hriet in Am rlen will send a deputetion
to Japen for the purpome of eonferrins with Japaneme
Christians.
ln my oplainn, if 'spam is to evolve inte 
peecsful nntion, with sn internmti nei ms arelnet a
motiomelintle outlook, she msst wnderetend end epure-
clete the rellslous foreem of the "orla. an Demeral
"searthur so well stated follo ing the surrender of
Jaoan on autember . i95:
"The probler beeienlly is tneoloklonl and
invelvee e ecirltusl reerudeseenee end lmprove-
ment of humen ehareeter thnt will wynehronle"
witn our aleout mntehless sivenoe in nelenes.
art, itersture, and wll waterial and sultorel
develovente or the peet two thoneend years.
it wwet to of the w ir't if we ore to mave the
fleen"
Your denutmtion should in  large menaure ald
in salviny trle fundememtel roblem Feeimg Jepen.
Ver: sineerely youre,
Theeverend
lmton.
PA? FOnr8D AYonue.
Sew York 10.
Yo
JA:HLory:mls
10-5-45

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
Concerning the Prcposed Visit to Japan of a Deputation
representing the Protestant Churches in America
1. The important place of religious forces in the future of Japan is
recognized.
a. General MacArthur, in his statement following the surrender of
Japan on September 2, 1945, said, --
"The problem basically is theological and involves a spiritual
recrudescence and improvement of human character that will synchronize with our
almost matchless advance in science, art, literature, and all material and cultural
developments of the past two thousand years. It must be of the spirit if we are to
save the flesh."
b. In 1940 there were 1931 Protestant churches in Japan with 233,463
members, and 4l2 Christian schools from kindergartens through universities with a
total enrollinent of 5l,4l2 students. It is generally recognized that the influence
of theso churches and institutions was disproportionately larger than their numbers
indicate.
c. The Japanese Fremier, Prince Higashi-Kuni, in a statement published
on September 14, 1945, said that "he counted considerably upon the power of
roligion," and that "he has asked Toyohike Kagawa, noted Christian leader, to serve
unofficially to help raise moral standards, do away with hatreds and establish
friendly relations with the United States and other cbuntries." (New York Sun,
September 14, 1945).
d. In a statement broadcast from Tokio on August 31, 1945 in the
Japanese GEA service, Tsunetaro Tod&, head of the Cultural Department of the "All
Japan Religious Association," suid, -- "It is needless to say that Japanese
Christianity will become very active. The presence of Americcn missionaries will
influence the Japanese Christian world. ...The Japanese Christian Church in dis-
playing intornationalism so characteristic of Christianity should strive to bring
about a better world."
2. The relation of the American churches to the Christian churches in
Japan is important.
a. From the beginning of Christian activity in the l9th century in
Japan, the American churches have given much more assistance than churches in any
other country. Before the war, more than two-thirds of the foreign missionaries in
Japan were sent by the American churches. In educational work, almost all the
forein assistance, especially in higher schools and colleges, was given by the
Ancrican churches. The statistics published in 1938 show that out of the total of
financial contributions from abroed for missionary vork in Japan, amounting to
1,838,077, the amount sent from America was #1,652,604.
b. Tho interest of American church people in the Christian churches in
Japan is large and widespread. All the larger and a number of the smaller de-
nominations have shared in missionary work in Japen and are concerned with the
future development in right relationships of the Christian cause in Japan. In
other vords, it is a large number of American people who have this Christian
interost in Japan.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
3. The churchos in Japan and in America have in the past been active in
striving to maintain and strengthen good relations between Japen and America.
&. Through the Department of International Justice end Goodwill of the
Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America, the Protostant communions in
the Unitcd States have cooperated with the Christian churches in Japan in a common
offort to lay tho spiritual foundetions of peace and justice between the two
countries.
b. Through the service of missionaries, both while in Japan and elso
Wlion on furlough in America, a better understanding of Americe. in Jepan and of Japan
in meric: has been continuously promoted. This has been done by these hundreds of
missionaries through their personal efforts in addresses and in written reports and
books and by all their service.
c. As a specific example, reference may be made to the visit of eight
Japanese Christian leaders, chosen by the National Christian Council of Japan, who
ceme to Amcrica in April and Iay, 194l, for the clearly defined purpose of
"strengthening the bonds between the Christiens of Japan and the Christians of the
United States," and of "exploring the distinctive contributions which the
Christians of both nations should make toward the betterment of Japanese-Americen
rclations." These wore the primary purposos of the visitors at that time, while
they came also to discuss future policies of cooperation in the distinctively
church work in Japan.
4. The proposed visit of an American deputation to Japen now is a
continuation of these earlier ©fforts.
a. Tho visit of the Japenese delegation in l94l resulted in forging
strong bonds of spiritual fellowship between them and many American church leaders.
This was especially true of those who met together for five days in frank and
intimate conference et Riverside, California, in April, 194l. Although the
conditions of war severed direct communication between the members of that group,
we believe the spiritual fellowship and mutual confidonce has been maintained
unbroken.
b. In the summer and autumn of l94l, the church and missionary
orcanizations in America were considering a proposal to send & deputation to Japan
in return for the visit of the Japanese Christians and to carry forward the efforts
to promote right relations between our two countries. The outbreak of war made it
impossible to carry out that plan.
c. The Japanese Christians will, we believe, welcome the visit of such
an American deputation now. This belief is supported by the evidence in the state-
ment broadcast from Tokio on August 31, 1945, in the Japanese GEA service (to
which reference was made in puragraph l.d above). That broadcast statement, after
referring to the visit of the Japanese representatives to America in l94l, said, --
"I want only to sey that the American Christian Church organizations
had prepared to send famous missionaries and representatives of devoted
Christians as envoys to return courtesies to the Japanose Church just
prior to the war. But this plan did not materialize. Undoubtedly the
Amcrican Christians now sense the responsibility of sonding envoys to
roturn the courtosy.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
1
"If thore should bo any proposal from Amorica to sond
represontatives with tho intention of returning courtosy in the
futurc, tho Japaneso Protcstant Church will gladly accept it and
discuss matters in a friondly and intimatc mannor.
"In such a caso, the Japaneso Christian Church in displaying
intcrnationalism so characteristic of Christianity should strive
to bring about a bettor world."
d. At a mocting at Buck Hill Falls, Ponnsylvania, on September 1l and
12, 1945, attondod by most of the Americans who had participated in the meeting at
Rivcrsido, California, in l94l, it was unanimously agreed that a doputation of
Amcrican Christiens should be sent to Japan at the earliost practicable moment.
The porsons to constituto such a deputation were nominated, and tho purposes of the
visit were defined, as stated below. This meeting was arranged by the Administra-
tion of the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in Amorica and the Foreign
issions Conference of North Amorice, and it is thorefore ropresentative of the
churches and organizations that are mombers of these two bodies.
5. The character and purpose of the visit now proposod is defined as
follows, --
a.
The deputation will be composed of the following four persons,
namely, --
The Reverend Douglas Horton, D.D., Chairman, American Council for
the World Council of Churches. Address: Generel Secretary of
the General Council of tho Congregational and Christian
Churches of tho United States of america, 237 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, N. Y.
The Reverend Bishop James Chamberlain Baker, D.D., LL.D., Chairman
of the International Missionary Council. Address: Resident
Bishop in the California Area of the 1.ethodist Church, 125
East Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, California.
The Reverend alter W. Van Kirk, D.D. Address: Executive Secretary
of the Department of International. Justice and Goodwill of the
Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in Arerica, 297
Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.
The Reverend Luman J. Shefer, Litt.D., Chairman of the Japan Committee
of the Foreign lissions Conference. Address: Secrctary of the
Board of Foreign Missions of the Reformed Church in America,
156 Fifth Avonue, Now York 10, N. Y.
b. This deputation is recognized as ropresentative of the Protostant
Churches in merica. These plans have been approved by the Administration of the
Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America and of the Foreign Missions
Confcrencc of North America, and the administrative officers of these two bodies
ere joined in making arrangoments for this visit.
c. The primary purpose of the deputation will be to reestablish face to
face contact with fellow Christians in Japan, to strengthen the living bonds of
spiritual unity in Christ, and to take counsel regardin? tho common tasks of the

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
ecumenical church. (This statement of purpose was formulated by the meeting in
Duck Hill Falls. It is cloarly understood that this deputation will not be ex-
poctcd to mako errangoments for future church work and relationships in Japan, nor
of the considerable financial and property interests of American missionary
organizations. They may make inquiries regarding relief and rehabilitation, but
without assuming responsibility for administrative decisions. Such questions are
reserved for later consideration when conditions and circumstances will be moro
sottled. This visit will be concerned primarily and wholly vith the single purpose
of strongthening the spiritual bonds of fellowship betweon Christians, and so
ostablish tho psychological and rcligious relations that will make possible tho
later discussion of futuro probloms of administration and cooperation.)
d. Bocausc of tho character and purposo of this deputation, it is
considcred to bo ossontial (1) that tho visit should be mado et tho oarliost
possible time, and (2) that it need not be prolonged for more than from two to
four weeks.
156 Fifth Avenue
Approved by the
297 Fourth Avenue
Committee on Arrangements
Nor. York 10, N. Y.
(signed)
A. L. WARNSHUIS
Scptembor 17, 1945
Chairman

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FEDERAL COUNCIL
OF THE
CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN AMERICA
297 FOURTH AVENUE. NEW YORK 1O. N. Y.
BISHOP G. BROMLEY OXNAM.
PRESIDENT
REV. SAMUEL MCCREA CAVERT.
REV. BENJAMIN E. MAYS.
GENERAL SECRETARY
VICE-PRESIDENT
REV. ROSWELL P. BARNES.
HARPER SIBLEY.
REV. J. QUINTER MILLER.
TREASURER
ASSOCIATE GENERAL BECRETARIES
October 18, 1945
Files
Contral
R 894.404/10-1845
This Document West be Returned to
Mr. Hillis Lory
Room 355, Main Building
Department of State
Pennsylvania Avenue
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Lory:
Herewith is copy of the letter which we
are sending today with an enclosed certified check for
$5000 to the Office of the Fiscal Director in the War
Department.
Yours truly,
AilWarnshuis
A.L. Warnshuis
Chairman, Committee on
Arrangements
For Deputation to Japan
ALW/s
8
Encl.
SJ
7
DC/R
JEC
Ana220
Rev
Cat

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
THE FEDERAL COUNCIL
OF THE
CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN AMERICA
297 FOURTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 1O. N. Y.
BISHOP G. BROMLEY OXNAM.
PRESIDENT
REV. SAMUEL MCCREA CAVERT.
REV. BENJAMIN E. MAYS.
GENERAL SECRETARY
VICE-PRESIDENT
October 23, 1945
REV. ROSWELL P. BARNES.
HARPER SIBLEY.
REV. J. QUINTER MILLER.
TREASURER
ASSOCIATE GENERAL SECRETARIES
Mr. Hillis Lory
Room 355
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Lory:
Files
Central
From the telegram which I sent you on Sunday evening
you will have learned that the four men on their way to Japan left
San Francisco on Sunday noon. This was a day earlier than we had
expected. We obtained maximum cooperation from the United Air Lines
so that all of them were able to reach San Francisco in good time.
We have just heard a rumor that a broadcast statement from Japan this
morning says that they have arrived in Tokyo. I can hardly believe
that but we expect they will be there within the next twenty four hours.
Incidentally, you will be interested in knowing that on arrival at the
A.T.C. office in San Francisco they found that the checks given them
for payment of their passage to Tokyo were each in excess of the required
amount by $315. 10 for which they received credit checks that will
probably be useful when they return.
I trust that you were able to arrange for information of
345
their departure to be cabled to Tokyo in good time and also that the
arrangements for the payment of their personal expenses in Japan were
satisfactorily completed.
I am writing this letter especially to express our most
hearty thanks for all that you have done in making this visit possible.
I know that you accomplished a great deal in obtaining all the necessary
permits for these men to go to Japan at this time and we appreciate
especially the speed with which you did this. We believe this mission will
mean a great deal in the development of right relations between the American
and Japanese people. Such a result will justify all that we have done
in arranging this visit.
894.404/10-2345
I am hoping that some time within the next few weeks I can
come to Washington and then I shall want to come in person to your office
to show how thankful we are for your assistance, and I would like to say
DC/R
that to some of the other officers in the Far Eastern Division of the
Department.
Anel
Rev
Cat.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
Mr. Hillis Lory
-2-
October 25, 1945
I hope you have told your wife that I think you are a
good and great man!
Yours truly,
Alillarnrhuin
A. L. Warnshuis
Chairman
Committee on Arrangements for
the Deputation to Japan

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
AMERICAN BIBLE SOCIETY
PARK AVENUE
BIBLE HOUSE
C 57TH STREET
ERIC M. NORTH
GILBERT DARLINGTON
FRANK H. MANN
TREASURER
ROME A. BETTS
NEW YORK 22, N.Y.
ROBERTT.TAYLORICHICAGOI
SECRETARIES
CABLE ADDRESS
"BIBLEHOUSE NEWYORK"
FRANCISC.STIFLER
SEC YFOR PUBLIC RELATIONS
TELEPHONE
EUGENE A NIDA
PLAZA 3-6600
ASSOC SLC YIORVLRSIONS
November 8, 1945
Files
Contral
DC/R
Inis Document Must Be Returued ke
Mr. Hillis Lory
Japanese ection
State Derartment
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Lory:
I have just been talking with Dr. harnshuis about the
urgency of a supply of Japanese Testaments and Gospels for the Christian
894.404/11-845
forces in Japan and for Korean Testaments for Korea.
Dr. Kagawa is reported to have spoken of their very great
need of scriptures in Japan, and a chaplain has written me that the
price of Testaments in Japan is two hundred and fifty times what it
was before the war. We have on hand and available to send from
10,000 to 50,000 copies in various Japanese and Korean Scriptures. We
are planning to print a large numper of additional copies as soon as
we can et an adequate arpraisal of the need. The commission now in
Japan,of vhich Dr. Horton and Dr. hafer are members, is, I understand,
in p rt to go on to Korea and may be able to give us some appraisal, but
we are prepared to make shipments immediately if we can find the channels
through which they can go. Their destin tion in Japan would be the
Jaranese Bible House on the Ginza whose building is still standing and
C
whose staff we knov. Similar arrengements can be made for Korea, or
ve could send to Protestant Chaplains if they could work the matter out.
I should very much aprreciate any suggestion you can give me
as to the arrangements that could be made and the persons who should be
contacted with reference to clearances for such shipments. The value
of these bocks in the present situation in these countries will be
consiierable from the point of view of morale and ood-will. Ihe Scciety
is not offering these books for sale, but giving them, and only asks
that the proceeds on sales be used in the country concerned to assist
in getting the publication of Seriptures going again.
Faithfully yours,
2xcio T
H
Lric M. North
A

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
25
November 23, 1945
Files
Contral
UC/R
Dear Mr. North:
I was glad to receive your letter of November 8,
1945, but regret that I have been delayed in answering
it.
With regard to your inquiry for sending Bibles to
894.404/11-845
Japan and Korea, I have been informed that you should
take this matter up with the Civil Affairs Division
of the War Department looated in the Pentagon Building
here in Washington. I would suggest that you write
to them giving all of the pertinent details such as
number of coples, total shipping weight, et cetera.
Sincerely yours,
Billis Lory
Mr. Eric M. North,
American Bible Society,
CS/H
Park Avenue and 57th Street,
New York 22, New York.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
124
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, December 18, 1945.
NO. 111
SUBJECT: Christian Churches in Japan During the War.
1JA
FER
The Honorable
946
lIks
The Secretary of State,
2cU
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit a copy of a memorandum
prepared by Mr. Russell L. Durgin of the staff of this
Mission on the subject: "Christian Churches in Japan
894.404/12-1845
During the War."
summary. "The problems of the Christian churches
durin the war have been closely related to Government
supervision over religions as provided in the Religious
LIAISON OFFICE
Bodies Law of 1939. There is but little evidence of very
much actual persecution of Christians by central govern-
ment authorities. Changes took place in many churches
and Christian schools as a result of social and national-
istic pressures. Recent trends seem to be toward renewed
vitality. ttitudes toward return of missionaries varies,
but all agree on the desirability of renewed cooperation
with American churches." End of Summary.
P ATE
Mr. Durgin is well qualified to deal with the sub-
ject of Christian work in Japan. He was for twenty-five
years connected with the work of the International Y.M.C.A.
in this country, remaining here after the outbreak of the
Pacific War until repatriation in June, 1942. Immediately
after his return to Japan in October, 1945, for duty with
this Mission, he accompanied a group of American church
representatives on a tour of Japan. Since that time he
CS/D
has re-established contacts with an extensive circle of
Japanese friends in Christian work.
Respectfully yours,
894.404/12.
Enclosure:
Memorandum: Christian Churches in Japan and the War.
Original and hectograph to Department.
Copy to General Headquarters.
840.4
EROTO BENT TO
FR
JSService:dm
2an 4 194

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
MEMORNDUM
November 27, 1945.
CHRISTIAN CHURCHLES II. JAPAN AND THE WAR
1. The situation before the war.
From about 1934 till 1939 attempts were made to
introduce bills in the Diet directed toward government
control of religious bodies. Buddhist, Christian and even
shinto leaders opposed this legislation, and numerous con-
ferences vere held by religious leaders to discuss such
proposed legislation. These efforts resulted in a good
many changes in the bill, which was finally passed in 1939
and promulgated in the spring of 1940. The law and the
subsequent interpretations by the Ministry of Education
resulted in official reconition being possible only for
those religious bodies which had at least 5,o00 members
and fifty meeting places established. This applied to
all three religions. any of the smaller sects and
denominations made frantic efforts to join with others,
especia11y during the sumner of 1940. In Cctober, 1940,
a large Christiun mass meeting passed resolutions agree-
ing in principle to form a united rrotestant church, and
8
committees were up ointed to work out details. The first
result was the formation of eleven sections (Bu), most of
4.4
the different sections representing the larper denomina-
tions of previous days. y ovenber, 1941, u sort of
C
organic federation was formed of these sections, and the
official rovernment recognition was issued recognizing
this as the Church of Christ in Japun (Kirisuto Kyodan).
The complete obliteration of the sectional lines did not
-1845
occur till late in 194n. In the meantime, the Roman
Catholic Church hud reccived its ofricial recognition in
the spring of 1941.
The Church of Christ in Jupun ineluded all the irotes-
tant denominations except a part of the Episcopal church
and a few small churches, such us the seventh Day Adventists.
These small sroups were ullowed to continue under the
Religious Bodies Law in the form of kessha (informal
religious societies), but this put them under the control
of the local police rather than the central Department of
Education. Various kinds of pressures were brought to bear
on the rrotestant churches to unite, lthough there was
never any direct governnent order to do so. One strong
factor which facilitated the union was the foundation work
during the previous twenty years curried on by an active
group of Christian pastors and laymen who were interested
in church union.
2. The Christian Church during the war.
It is impossible to generalize with regard to what
huppened.  sense of inereused strongth resulted from the
unification of all Christians. Also the fact that for the
first

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
first time Christianity had come to be officially
recognized and named on the statute books of the
country, gave Christian leaders a new sense of stand-
ing within the religious world in Japan. However, both
direct and indirect pressures became increasingly severe
as the war progressed. Treatnent differed in different
localities because of the differing attitudes by govern-
ment officials, police and military police, as well as
because of the strength or weakness of attitudes by the
Christian leaders themselves. all Christians were sub-
ject to suspicion und criticism because of previous
contacts with merica und England. Many of the propa-
ganda films which had to do with the spy problem had a
Christian church in them or pointedly referred to the
necessity of being aware of Christians. There were but
few instances, apparently, of much actual damage to
church buildings. The outstanding case of actual im-
risonment or persecution of Christian leaders was the
arrest of a lar e number of the ministers of the former
holiness Church, many of whom were kept in prison for
months. The char es were in the main centered on their
doctrine of the zecond Comin of Christ and their idea
of the Creator god, corcepts which the authorities
claimed ran counter to the nationalistic ideas of the
imperor und of Japan us a different and unique country.
The definite drop in church attendance seems to
huve been caused by a eombination of such factors as:
(1) the spy mania, (s) the general war psychology, (3)
the ubolishment of sunday us a holiday, (4) the necessity
for women to spend hours stunding in lines for food, (5)
the requirement thut muny younger pastors work a large
part of the week (this upplied to suddhist and shinto
priests as well), (6) the uncertuinties caused by air
raid drills ne later by actual ruids, (7) all sorts of
covernnent re ulations whieh made it impossible to get
out reports, notices nd tructs, and (8) the necessity
of police pernission for even holding meetings.
In most churehes the practice of bowing in the direc-
tion of the Imperial palace and praying for the welfare of
the soldiers was observed in one for or another. In some
cases this ceremony tock lace outside the church and be-
fore the regular service; in others it was in the church
itself but as a sort of preliminary before the actual
service becan; in still others it constituted the first
part of the worship itself. In some churches the prayer
purt was announced simply us a moment of sent prayer
vith no indieation of its nature.
any of the sunday schools continued, although after
the spring of lo45 there were but few if any children in
the larger cities. Church work among women seems to have
been largely forcotten, due to the pressures all women
were subjected to in getting food for the family. There
were but few actual deflections on the part of Christian
pastors, although many vorked at sone materially produc-
tive work at least part of each week. Some Christians
left

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
left the churches, but apparently in most cases they were
people who had been but "lukewarm" previously.
3. The Christian schools during the war.
This will be the subject of a special report, but
here too it is impossible to generalize too much. some
schools, such as Keisen Jo Gakuen (Miss Michi Kawai's
chool) and Kobe Jo Gakuen (Kobe Girl's College) continued
almost exactly as in the past. This was true also of a
number of the boys' schools, in spite of the great
pressures brought by some of the students, the non-
Christian members of the fuculty and certain members of
the trustees, as well as fron forces outside the schools.
some schools changed over completely, even to the extent
of discharging Christian teachers and principals and sub-
stituting even ultra-nationalistic men in their places.
In some schools such demands for changes centered more in
the rewording of the constitution, such as doing away with
the phrase "in ace ordance with Christian principles" in
the statement of purpose. Others made no basic changes,
but simply worked out temprary udjustments while remain-
ing fundamentally loyal to Christian principles. Those
leaders who renained firm seemed to have been able, in
most cases, to curry on their wort without too much actual
trouble.
4. resent trends of the churches.
a. The nutional leadership of the Church of Christ
in Jupan is in the hands of sincere pastors but men who
have been so tied up vith covernment regulations, control
und bureaueracy that they seem to have lost sight of the
larger vision to a certuin extent. Cne of their largest
coneerns fer the past few years has been the wording of
a catechism whieh was required by the overnment. Many
of these leaders ure how largely concerned with what is
cing to huppen to the structural organization of the
united church. This upolies perhaps largely to Tokyo,
for in other purts of Jupun there seens to exist a some-
what freer and more detached attitude with respect to the
national church machinery und leadership. In the Kyoto
region, for instance, there seems to be more of a desire
to make the chureh leadership more representative and
demoeratic in its national organization.
b. ttitudes tovurd what form the future organiza-
tion ot the Church of Christ in Japan should take vary,
with four more or less distinet alternatives being
sugcested: (1) maintuin the organization as at present,
with only the necessary changes required because of the
abolislment of the Religious Bodies Law; (z) maintain the
united church as a basis, but along some such lines as
existed in 194l with different "sections," each with more
or less autonomous freedom to supplement the common creed
or confession uccording to the desires of the particular
group; (3) maintain th national solidarity of the church,
but change the church constitution completely and put the
hole church on a democratic basis (this would require the
early

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
carly calling of a large and representative national
assembly of the church); and (4) go back to the old
denominational basis of church organization.
c. Church interest und attendance seem to have
been increasing quite rapidly since the close of the
war. This is due pa rtly to the general trend of the
times, purtly to the gradual return to the cities of
people who had been evacuatcd, and also to a new sense
of freedom and liberation which they feel. New courage
seems to churacterize many of the leaders as they sense
the opportunities uhead for the Christian church in Japan.
d. The Christian schools and colleges have rapidly
resumed their former activities in most cases. The des-.
truction of sehool buildiigs has made this difficult in
a few places. Radical changes of leadership is in the
process of reulization in many of the schools which were
more or less "nationalized" during the war. In the cases
of a few schools mhere this change has not yet been made,
u rather urgent need for attention seems to be required.
5. Return of missionaries from abroad.
Opinions of Jupanese Christian leaders vary all the
way from the spontaneous expression by a representative
Christian pastor in Kyoto that "a thousand American
missionaries should came as soon as possible" to the
extremely cautious attitude expressed by the Reverend
Mitsuru TOMITa, official head of the Church of Christ in
Japan. In un article writton by Mr. TomITn for Domei in
september, three points were considered at some length:
(1) historically the evangelistic missionary approach
gave way to a Bible class and English teaching emphasis,
and therefore in the future there may not be much place
for the evangelistic type of foreign missionary; (2) the
possible pla ce missionaries may be tempted to take as a
part of a "pacification" program at a time when the scars
of war ure so vividly relt should be considered very care-
fully; und (3) due precautions should be taken to prevent
returning missionarios from tending to cause divisions
and disintegration of the united church along former
denominational lines.
In general, the more thoughtful of the Japanese
Christian leaders seem to favor a return of first a few
carefully selected und experienced missionaries. These,
they feel, should come us soon as possible. Hegotiations
and arrangements coula then be worked out for the future.
The judgment of many of the Christian education leaders
is that through the sehools und colleges young men and
women from merica could make their greatest contribution
in helping the reconstruction of Japan. These young
people perhaps may best come on a short term basis, say
for two or three years.
6. Destruction of Christian property.
. fairly complete national survey indicates that
about 30 percent of the churches were destroyed in part

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5-
or entirely. Of the 1600 Protestant churches, 455 are
now unusable for church purposes. bout 100 of the 300
Roman Catholic churches were destroyed. A total of 331
rotestant ministers' parsonages or homes, together with
libraries, vere destroyed. The very large proportion of
property destroyed was situated in the larger cneters of
population, where most of the Christian work has been
located. In most of the cities the relatively few large
concrete church cdifices still stand intact. Mos t of the
larger Christian sehools und colleges were not damaged,
although some, like Mwanto Gakuin in Yokohama and the
Hiroshima irls' school, vere entirely destroyed.
Russell L。 Durgin

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
DC/R
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, April 16, 1945.
No. 374
SUBJECT: Attitude of Japanese Communists Toward Religion.
H3
110
The Political Adviser has the honor to forward copy of a memo-
randum dated March 30, 1946, prepared by a member of the staff of
thi Mission, on the subject "Attitude f Japanese Communist Toward
Religion".
Summary. Japanese Communist ideology rogarding re-
ligion seems to resemble that of Soviet Russia 25 years
ago, and although the goal of older Communist leaders is
"to make religion dimappear", the younger Communists ap-
pear to view religion negatively rather than with active
894.404/4-1646
hostility. Communists generally approve the separation of
Shinto from the State. Referring to religion as an
"opiate of the people", Communist leaders state that moral-
ity and ethics have no connection with religion. The in-
fluence of the few intellectuals in the Japanese Communist
Party, who have been Buddhist or Christian leaders, is r
garded as negligible. End of Summary.
To the memorandum is attached copy of an interview which Father
Patrick O'Connor had with NOSAkA Sanzo on February 28, on the ubject
of the Communist Party and religion.
Enclosure:
Copy of memorandum
of March 30, 1946.
CS/VJ
Original and hectograph
to Department.
800
JWBurnett:vs
894.404/4-1646

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to despatch no. 374, April 16, 1946, from the United
States Political Adviser, Tokyo, on the subject "Attitude of
Japanese Communists Toward Religion".
MEMORANDUM
March 30, 1946.
SUBJECT: Attitude of Japanese Communists Toward Religion.
Interviews with several individuals connected directly or indi-
rectly with Communist groups in Tokyo have failed to reveal any sig-
nificant ideology regarding religion other than the traditional
Soviet Russian attitude toward the church and religion. The impre
sion gained is that current Japanese Communist ideas about religion
resemble the Soviet Russian ideology of a quarter century ago.
"Religion is an opiate of the people," was stated by TOkUDA in a
recent interview on this subject. "Our goal is to make religion
disappear," said NOSAKA in a recent exclusive interview with Father
O'Connor of the Catholic News Service. A full copy of this inter-
view is enclosed.
The Japan Communist youth movement leaders appear to take a
slightly broader viewpoint. During a recent interview with SAkuRAI
Koji and MARUYAMA Tokuji of the Communist Youth headquarters, these
persons stated that equal emphasis was placed on freedom of religion
and freedom for no religion. They were just not interested in the
subject. They added that they were not following any foreign pat-
tern. The subject of religion does not seem to form a part of their
schooling or discussions. They were opposed to the utilization of
religion or religious groups far political ends. In this connection
Shinto and its utilization by the Government and the military leaders
before and dur ing the war was denounced. Complete approval was ex-
pressed of the steps thus far taken to divorce Shinto from any Gov-
ernment connections. SAkURAI stated that questions of morality and
ethical conceptions had no connection with religion. He cited as an
instance that there had never been any problem of stealing or dis
honesty at the Communist headquarters even though nothing was ever
locked up. He added that the present spiritual and moral collapse
in Japan had come entirely from economic causes, and that if econ-
omic and living conditions could be improved, the present state of
moral degeneration would automatically be bettered.
TokUDA, who has been in prison in Japan for many years, recently
stated to AYUZAWA Iwao (former chief of the International Labor Office
in Japan) that he considered religion as an "opiate of the people"
and therofore unnecessary in their program.
In the "Outline of Procedure of the Communist Party of Japan and
the Rules and Regulations Therefor", there are two brief references
to the subject of religion:
Item 7 of the Procedure says:
"Complete freedom of picketing, striking, organizing, speaking,
assembling and worchipping. Separation of the church and
state."
Article

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Article 16 states:
"All parasitic land holders--the Emperor, shrines, landlord-
are to be deprived of their land without compensation, and the
land is to be gratuitiously distributed to the landless farmers."
Among the Communists there are a few intellectuals, some of
whom have had Buddhist or Christian leadership experience, but their
infbuence regarding Communists' attitude toward religion appears to
be negligible.
Russell L. Durgin
800
RLDurgin:vs

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
Feb. 28, 1946.
FATHER PATRICK O'CONNOR S.S.C.
Correspondent for National Catholic News Service of
Washington, D. C.
"We are materialists," Sanzo Nosaka, Japanese communist leader,
told me. "Our goal is to make religion disappear."
This blunt statement came during a long interview in which most
of his replies were carefully qualified.
We talked in a second-floor room in the busy, two-story communist
headquarters in Yoyogi district of Tokyo. Pleasant, shrewd, well-edu-
cated, Nosaka speaks English well, choosing words with caution. The day
was bleak and he sat in his dark-blue overcoat, werming his hands occa-
sionally over the electric hotplate glowing on the unvarnished table
between us. Slight of build, he dresses in Western clothes, wears a
thin moustache and does not look his fif ty-odd years.
He told me his story briefly. In l9l7 he was graduated from Keio
University in Tokyo. He worked in labor union movements here, went to
England, became a communist. Returning to Japan, he identified himself
with the communist party, was imprisoned several times and left Japan
for Moscow in 1931. Representing the Japanese communists, he served
on the praesidium of the Communist International in Moscow. In 1940
he left Moscow for China, where he went underground, coming to the sur-
face in 1943 in Yenan, headquarters of the Chinese Red Army. There he
directed the Farmer-Labor school and apparently ranked high in that
base of Far Eastern communism. He arrived in Tokyo from Yenan last
January.
Already Japanese communists, freed from prison, had revived their
party in November. But when Noseka arrived from abroad, he immediately
took the lead as spokesman and apparently as policy-maker, even though
he did not hold a seat on the central committee. Since he came back,
the communist platform has been modified to make it more attrattive to
Japanese voters.
Nosaka distinguishes between the communists' platform for the
omming election and their long-term policy. Speaking of their present
program, he told me:
"We advocate a democratic political system. That includes liquid-
ating absolutism in the emperor eystem. Secondly, we intend to improve
the people's living conditions, incréase their rice quota, provide homes
and employment, reduce prices and halt inflation. Thirdly. we are for
the protection of women and youth, of medium and small merchants, for
division of land among the peasants, increased wages and an 8-hour day."
I suggested that, stated thus, the platform is no more communistic
than that of any progressive party anywhere. "Why call yourselves
communists, therefore?"
In reply he took a red pencil and made two marks about four inches
apart on a sheet of paper. This represented the full-length communist
program. Then at a point one-third of the way he made another mark,
designating it "democracy". This denoted the objective of the present
campaign, merely the first stage on the way to the real goal.
Commenting

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Commenting further on the Reds' immediate aims, he said:
"We want a united front, a coalition government."
"In that coalition would the communist party be content with repre-
sentation in proportion to its elected members in the Diet?"
"No. We would ask for a larger proportion of cabinet posts than
our percentage of Diet members. We would claim the added percentage
on the basis of our popular following."
Mr. Nosaka does not wish to make the abolition of the imperial
dynasty, as distinct from ebsolutism, a campaign issue now. "But we
urge the people, when they do decide this question, to liquidate the
imperial dynasty altogether and set up a republic," he said.
The long-term policy of the Japanese communists he described as
"a long-range program of nationalization. It includes control of big
capital by taking over the larger industries. Workers in such indus-
tries would then be government employees and the products would be sold
in government stores. While socializing large industries, we would
protect small capitalists. We favor cooperatives."
"Would member ship in these cooperatives be voluntery or compulsory?"
"Voluntary, at fir st. Later on, compulsory. If a man would not
buy bread from the cooperatives, he would starve."
"Then by cooperatives you really mean government stores having a
monoply?"
"Yes."
Concerning communist policy on land distribution, Nosaka said:
"We are not in favor of collectivization of farms. Our policy is
to break up large land holdings and distribute the land among the
peasants. Our original plan was to confiscate the land outright.
After some discussion we have decided in fevor of compensating smaller
landowners, only."
"What size holdings would you confiscate outright?"
"It would depend on locality. In the north, farms larger than 15
cho (about 37 acres), in the center and south, farms larger than 5 cho
(12 acres), would be confiscated. A man owning 2 cho (5 acres) in the
south or 3 in the north could keep his property. Holdings in between
would be taken over with compensation."
Mr. Nosaka emphasized that the Japanese communists stand for
"socialization by way of a people's government, a democratic way." I
reminded him that in kussia only one party is permitted and asked him
in what sense he meant his democratic way.
"A political party is the expression of the interest and view of
one social class," he replied. "in Russia there is now only one class,
the working class. Therefore there is no basis for two or three par-
ties.
"If the communist party is elected as a majority in Japan, we will
tolerate

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
tolerate other parties. But our goal is to arrive at one class, the
working class. Then there will be only one party left, the communist
party. To achieve our goal of a one-class, one-party State, we do
not advocate violence or the Soviet system of a proletarian dictator-
ship as a means to our end."
Question: So if all classes are gradually merged into one, the warking
class, then only one party will have any place in Japanese life?
Answer: Yes.
. Do you expect, even in an entirely working-class State, the vote
of the whole population to be lo0% for any one party?
A. Yes, ultimately.
. At a public forum here in Tokyo recently, Edgar Snow described the
Russian government as a "one-party dictatorship". If in Japan the major-
ity puts the communist party in power, will there be freedom of speech,
of the press and of organization for the minority in the country?
A. That depends on cir cumstances.
Q. If a majority within the communist party votes for some policy,
will there be freedom of speech, or the press and or organization for
the minority in the party?
A. No.
Q. If the communist party becomes the governing power, will you give
freedom of religion?
A. We will give freedom to wor ship. But we are materialists. Our
goal is to make religion disappear.
Why and how?
A. Religion exists because there is some kind of mystery or contra-
diction in social, economic or political phenomena. When the social,
economie and political system is rationalized, then religion will
disappear.
 You have been in Yenan with the Chinese communists, Mr. Nosaka.
Would your attitude towards religion be the same as theirs?
A. Yes. Our policy concerning religion would be the same as Mao Tse-
tung has enforced in Yenan.
Q What would your policy be in education?
A. Our educational policy would be in accord with our general ideology.
Would you permit schools under religious auspices as we have them
in the United States?
A. If a religious school was regarded as hostile to communism, we
could not allow it.
Q. Have you heard that Louis Budenz, editor of the Daily Worker, New
York communist newspaper, has entered the Catholic Church and left the
Communist

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Communist party?
Nr. Nosaka had not heard, was clearly interested but had no comment
to make.
Q. How far are you acquainted with Catholic teaching on social ques-
tions, on labor's rights to organize, collective bargaining, the living
wage and the like? Have you read any of the Pope's letters on these
subjects?
A. No, I have never read them. I have heard something about your
living-wage doctrine but I know nothing about Catholic teaching on other
social questions.
As I was leaving, the Red leader said: "You must understand that
In Japan, under the old system, we had little chance to know about
Catholic principles. It would be interesting now..."

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.92)
DC/R ROUTING SLIP
FROI.1
NO.
ACTION:
COPIES TO2
3
1 1F1
IFER
1 FEC(ERD)
3 lear
1 Nany
15 Odpies

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
FR
102
A
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Toiyo, Japan, April 19, 1946
No. 382
SUBJECT: Political Activities of Jepanese Religious Groups
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit copy of a memorendum pre-
pered by a member of the staff of this Mission on the subject
"Political Activities end Interests of Religious Groups in
804.404/4-1
Japan".
Sumary. There is, on the whole, little
organized political activity of religious roups.
Apart fron primary concern with pressing probleme
of daily life, most religious leaders, of all
faiths, favor the exertion of influence of church
members as individuals rather than as organizers
or supporters of specific parties, to elevete the
moral tone of politics and develop civic respon-
sibility. However, several Shinto sects have put
up a number of candidates for the Diet, and a so-
called Buddnist Party has named sone fifty candidates.
These groups are not expected to play a significent
role in the elections, End of Summary.
Respectfully yours,
George Atcheson, Jr.
0
Enclosure:
Copy of memorandum
dated April 6. 1946.
Original end hectogreph to Department
Copy to General Headquarters, SCAP
840.4
JSService: jwb
7

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to despetch No. 382 dated April 19, 1946, from the
United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan, on the subject
"Political Activities of Japanese Religious Groups".
COPY
MEMORANDUM
April 6, 1946
SUBJECT: Political Activities and Interests of Religious Groups
in Japan
Interest of religious groups in the developing political
situation in Japan seems little different from that of the
general public. Te more immediate physical needs occupy the
thought and primary attention of most people, regardless of their
religious, social, or culturel backgrounds.
Christians and Politics. Practically all the few Christians
who were members of the former Diet have for one reason or another
felt the effects of the political purge, end are no longer in
politics. KAGAWA Toyohiko is ebout the only well-known Christian
leader who seems to heve been taking any active and wide-spread
part in the recent election campaigning. He has been traveling
and speaking extensively for several different members of the
Social Democratic Party. In general, Christian groups seem to
favor Christiens as individual citizens perticipating in political
activity rather than by taking any stand as a group in favor of
any particuler perty or candidate.
Shinto and Politics. Conversations with representatives of
some ten of the different Shinto religious sects fail to reveel
evidences of any significent political interest or activity. In
general, Shinto religious leaders heve been more or less indifferent
to politics. One reason for this has been thet they have not been
able to run as political candidotes even though they have hed the
right to vote. Another reason may heve been that religion in
their opinion has been above political and legal considerations.
Traditionelly it has been felt thet a knowledge of the laws of
religion were ell that they were required to know. The new
situation confronting sect Shinto, in light of the abolishment of
State Shinto, appears to make Shinto religious leeders even more
reluctant to enter political affairs. However, a representative
of the Taiseikyo sect ststed thet one of Japan's weaknesses in
the past hes been the lack of religious influence permeating
political life. "Beliefless politics," said this representative,
"has been one of the causes of Japen's present miserable condi-
tion." He therefore was strongly of the opinion that religious
leaders should teke an active interest in politics and so help
to permeate the Diet discussions with spiritual ideals. One de-
votee of this Taiseikyo sect is a candidate in the present elections.
Tenrikyo is evidently the most active and politically con-
scious sect of religious Shinto. This group has seven candidates
for election, five of whom are Shinto priests. They have been
carrying on a fairly ective politicel campaign.
The Kaikyo sect has e rather colorful candidate in a priest
who is fairly well known as the man who annually at New Year time
has climbed Mt. Fuji for twenty yeers for the specific purpose
of praying there for world peace.
Konkokyo

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Konkokyo leaders appear to be fairly representative, however,
of religious Shinto, when they say that as a religious movement
they are not interested in political matters; only as individual
citizens interested in the welfare of society should Shinteists
help in promoting political education and responsible participa-
tion in the political life of the country.
Attitude of Buddhists. There seems to be but little interest
or activity on the part of Buddhists in political metters. Many
of their leaders appeer to lve become very pessimistic, following
Japan's defeat, and a great meny of the priests went into retreat
in monesteries and cloisters.
One fairly definite political movement among Buddhists, how-
ever, has developed during the pest few months. The philosophic
basis of this political participation is expressed by the Reverend
HAKAYAN Riri, when he says that "Buddhists, who used to bow be-
fore militery men, are now determined to throw away such e cowardly
attitude" and "come forward as leaders of the masses in the move-
ment for raciel rennaissance." He concludes his statement, a
full copy of which is attached, with the words:
"For the above-said reason, the writer hopes that
Buddhist M.P.Is will never take pert in politics in the
narrow sense of the term. In the past it was the major-
ity part that took the reins of government, and most
of the M.P.Is were keen on securing for themselves
positions of power, while on the part of minorities, in
their eagerness to be in power, they did not hesitate
to resort to dirty tactics scarcely minding decency or
uprightness.
"Under the circumstances, were Buddhist M.P.'s
alone to keep themselves aloof of such politicians and
never covet influential sovernment positione, but stand
in the proud though not blliant position of overseers
of the Government, how reassuring we would feel!
"Men of ability and high character believing in
the teachings of Buddha should run for election in
the coming general election end when they are returned
the writer hopes they will form a group with strong
moral influence in the midst of men struggling for
power."
The so-called Buddhist Party has been becking some fifty candi-
dates, meny of whom are active priests. Others are former priests,
and a few are active Buddhist laymen. The hope of the party
leaders was to heve at least one candidate from each prefecture.
Considarable inquiry into deteils of this party affairs and activi-
ties has failed to reveal very much organization, leadership,
or strength. There is a Women's Bureau of this Buddhist Party,
which has been fairly active in promoting the campaign of the
one women Buddhist candidate in Tokyo.
In a recent interview, the Reverend NAkAYAMA Riri disclaimed
any intention on the part of this Buddhist Party of forming a
religious

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
religious pelitical bloc. He stated as its purpose as rather to
help elevate the sense of moral consciousness through Buddhism.
Priests and tenples should not be used, according to NAkaYAMA,
as political centers of activity, but should serve as means of
elevating the people's sense of moral and civic responsibility.
In closing the interview, Mr. NAkAYAMA stated that even though
none of the Buddhist candidates are successful, as he thinks
may be the case, "we should continue to try to influence members
of all parties elong moral and spiritual lines."
Dr. TOMOlATSU Entai, Dean of Teisho Daigakke and en out-
standing Buddhist scholar, prophesied in a recent interview with
the writer that perhaps one third of the Buddhist candidates may
be successful in the present election campeign. However he felt
thet almost none of them had any real ideas on economic or
political affairs. Among the Buddhist candidates there is one
exception to this generalization, namely, e Buddhist priest
from Hokkeido nemed SUGA Shuei, who is a Social Democretic Party
candidate. Mr. TOMOMATSU feels that if SUGA is successful in
his campaign, liberal and left-wing social policies may be more
influential in Buddhist circles. Mr. TOMOMATSU tends to discount
the politicel influence of the Buddhist Political Party as such,
claiming that most responsible Buddhist leaders believe thet
Buddhists, like other citizens, should take part in political
action as individuals rather than as members of a religious
political party.
The results of many interviews with individuals and groups
conferences along the above lines have been very lergely negative.
There seems to be en almost universal feeling on the part of all
religious leaders interviewed, however, thet a new moral and
spiritual leadership is essential in the reconstruction of
Japan, and thet a vigorous end vitel religious leadership is
urgently needed in the present state of political degeneration
and despair.
Bissell L. Durgin
840.4
RLDurgin: jwb
Appendix:
Statement of NAKAYAMA Riri.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
Mission of Buddhist Members of the House of Representatives
by R Nakayama
Confronted with the stupendous task of surmounting the crisis
of national reconstruction, which has come on the heels of the termi-
nation of the War, the Japanese people, the first netion in the world
to have no armament, have begun to give freely and actively expres-
sions to their ideas and thoughts, resulting, among others, in the
eppearance among them cf many political parties one after another.
Since the outbreak of the Manchurian Incident, the Government per-
sisted in stocking to the policy of keeping the people in the dark
concerning matters of rave national importance, requiring them
to rely on and place full confidence in the measures it took to
deal with then. As the War of Greater East Asia went on disadvantage-
ously for us, the G vernment pursued this policy more and more strong-
ly, thereby bringing abeut e derk age and turning seventy million
people into inarticulate living corpses under the oppression of a
small but powerful military clique and some leaders currying faver
with the military gangster. We are really glad at the tendency
seen today of the Japanese people becoming fearless speakers. It
was a bitter experience for us to be defeated in war, as we were,
but to my way of thinking it was much better to enjoy freedom of
speech, as we do todey, than being denied it more strictly than
ever after winning the war.
In the Buddhist field, the Rev. Entei Tomomatsu has recently
announced his intention to participate in political activities.
Besides him, there have appeared in locel districts people who
want to send to the House of Representetives at least one Buddhist
for each of the prefectures throughout the country. This shows that
Buddhists, who used to bow before militery men, are now determined
to throw away such a cowardly attitude, but to come forward as
leaders of the messes in the movement for recial renaissence.
We cannot but help feeling happy at this volte-face of theirs.
It is the duty of the members of the Lower House to criti-
cize, advise and encourage the Government with regard to its home
end foreign policies by posin~ as representatives of the people
at large. They are guaranteed by the Constitution absolute free-
dom of speech and voting in the Lower Houge concerning all
matters of importance includins presontation and approval or
rejection of bille, and iscussion and p ssage of budgets.
I do not like to cry over spilt milk. For all the shameful
things thet appeared in our country during the War, the Japanese
people must hold themselves responsible and repent. Those inthe
position of naming war criminals are the Allied Powers, but we are
not entitled to judge our brethren. But at least we wish that
membars to be sent to the Lower House from the Buddhist circles
will always keep their moral character high and under the privi-
lege they possess of the freedom of speech and voting courageously,
execute the two most important points of their duty, i.e., repre-
sentetion of people'e will and superintendence over the Government.
For the above-said reason, the writer hopes that Buddhist
M.P.'s will never take part in politics in the narrew sense of the
term

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix
(Cont'a)
-2
term. In the past it was the majority party that took hold of
the reins of government, and most of the M.P.Is were keen on
securing for themselves pesitions of power, while on the part
of minorities, in their eagerness to be in power, they did not
hesitate te resort to dirty tactics scarcely minding decency
and uprightness.
Under the circumstances, were Buddhist M.P.'s alone to keep
themselves aloof of such politicians and never cover influential
government positions, but stand in the proud though not brilliant
position of overseers of the Government, how reassuring we would
feel!
Men of ability and high character believing in the teachings
of Buddha should run for election in the coming general election
and when they are returned the writer hopes they will form a group
with streng moral influence in the midst of men struggling for
power.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
JA
ACTION COPY
CENTRAL SERVICES
TELEGRAPH SECTION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JA
ACTION:BE
Astian
JA
INFO:
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Interr
SPD
FC
FE
CY
A
DC/R
JA
CTC
9880
SEA
PI
PLAIN
Apr1l 26, 1946
From:
CINCAFPAC Tokyo Japan
To:
War Department
Mbr:
Z 33258
894.404/4-2646
From CINCAFPAC to WARCOS pass to State Dept.
Z-33258。
Reourad 2 31659 Bishop Tucker has advised
trip postponed until fall.
End.
Note: Z 31659 1s MC IN 59623 (18 Apr) G-2 (State)
ACTION: G 2 (State)
MC IN 63752
(26 Apr 46)
DTG: 260401Z mh
PERMANENT
RECORD COPY: THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R WITH NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
to : Mr. Meyer
DATE:
9 Jan
FRom : L. Flickinger
SUBJECT:
New missionary policy for Japan forwarded in accordano
with telephone conversation 8 January 1947.
894.404

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.94)
WAR DEPARTMENT
DC/H
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLEAR MESSAGE
C
† Must Be Returned To
894.404/11-2646
404
DO/R
2
S
CS/
6
KL
工
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.88)
WAR DEPARTMENT
25K
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLEAR MESSAGE
L
UNCLASSIFIHO

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
WAR DEPARTMENT
FiegDeR
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLEAR MESSAGE
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN-61947
Telephone
Memorandum of Conversation
Department of State
DATE: November 26, 1946
SUBJECT:
Approval of Trip of Mrs. Sasaki to Japan
894.404/1
PARTICIPANTS: FE - Mr. John Carter Vincent
ADO - Mr. Gordon T. Bowles
COPIES TO: ADO - Mr. Schule
Mr. Leverich
FE - Mr. Vinclent
-2646
1-1408
Mr. Vincent called about a irs. Sasaki who has been
invited by various Japanese Buddhist organizations to
return to Japan to assist them in problems of reorgani-
zation of various Buddhist sects in Japan and the part
Buddhism can play in the process of reorienting the Japa-
nese people along democratic lines and in supporting the
general policies of the occupation.
In his opinion he felt that it would be desirable
CS/V
to see that irs. Sasaki gets to Japan in the event that
there is no objection from the theater.
DCK
NF On
894.404
ADO:GTBowles:mbv
12/9/46
2646

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
1
CONFIDENTIAL
Action:
EUR
Info:
Control 1950
S
Rec'a December 6, 1946
U
4:47 p.m.
A-B
FE
OOD
FO
FROM:
Berlin
1 1946
OIC
DC/R
TO
Secretary of State
NO
281. December 6. 11 p m.
Am informed that loadere of susslen Orthodox Church abroad
at Munieh are soncerned because Japanese congregation has
894.404/12-646
invited both American branch of organization and Russian
Orthodox Ohureh at Moseow to appoint new archbishop for
Tokyo. Munieh group fears that establishment of Moscow
representative as arehbishop vould result in domination of
Japanese congropation by Moseow church and thus by Soviet
Governmen?
Sent Sokyo as 1. repeated to Deparument as 2831 (Depart-
ment please pess to Cokyo).
HEATH
Department releyod to Tokyo 12/6/46, 5:45 p.m
MP
BAL:OWD
DEC 11 1946
FILED
工
CONFIDENTIAL
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.95)
OUTGQING TELEGRAM
5938
Collect
Department of State
Charge Department:
Washington
Change to
RESTRICTED
XIXDUEXXE
SUPREME COMMA
ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
29
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
UP report from
Moscaw  JAN 28 follows:
QUOTE A Tass agency dispatch from
Vladivostok today said that General MacArthur
committed an INNERQUOTE unfriendly act toware
the Orthodox Church by engineering the appoint
×R861.+04
ment of an American Bishop to Japan and refusing
permission for the Moscow Patriaroh to onter
Japan END INNERQUOTE.
QUOTE Taes said that after the death in
1945 of Metropolitan Serge1, who headed the
Orthodox Church in Japan since 1912, the
CS/A
Japanese consistory asked Moscow to appoint
DISTRIBUTION
a succeseor and invited Patriarch Alexius from
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
Moscow for a visit. The agenoy said MacArthur
sent an INNERQUOTE urgent demand END INNERQUOTE
to New York to have an Amerlcan Bishop sent and
CR CLEARANCE
2√

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.96)
OUTGQING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
Department of State
Charge Department:
Washington
Charge to
-2-
then INNERQUOTE applied pressure and foree
on the Japanese oonsistory to agree to the
appointment END INNERQUOTE.
QUOTE Tass said that in JAN Patriarch
Alexius' viea application for Japan was
VR 894.111
INNERQUCTE finally den1ed END INNERQUOTE.UNQUOTE
Scaps' comments requested. Repeated to Mossew as no.
135
Code Room: Please repeat to Moscow as
135
Mashall
(FOS)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRKD
(OFFICEB ONLY)
AQ
EE:RBDavie:hrs
JA
1/28/47
cleared with
Mr. All1son
CR CLEARANCE

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.88)
Forfn DS-202
(7-2-46)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
Fill
INCOMING TELEGRAM
3
PLAIN
A
Acsion: 
Cont ol 149
3
Ree'd February 1, 1947
3A
12:30 p.m.
FE
).
00
Bevetery of Beate
Ommusbvved, Pet uaey 1. 1949
H
 29 2ary 08, 6 p.m.
894.404/2
 Ageeuy apatePom Vlactvostok ta considered
a e ad ous a  ato ttom of fact.
Chronologteal
or of fate followe:
Ta nese of the Orthosox Shuver in Japan for a bishop
aorst seme to the attentton of shis headquarsers
to mally in September when a I tter was reeeived
Yi
"equest ee "t tat permiselon be granted for a bishop
-1
or as GrFrodom Meeek Catholte Chures of North Americe
to  pen for a temporary stay to asstst the
47
a modox huren in perfovmance of neeeesary
1
"al slens Pen sione."
This letter was stgned by three
 e mambe s of the conetstory of the apanese
  vohox huven. This request was relayed to mis
tnence Metropolitan Theophilus, head of the Orthodox
wek atholl  thurch of North Amertea shrough the
 t chiers or Stafr v OURAD C 65872. On 7 December
G Wer s 75s was reeeived expressing fears of
the Muuse hu eh group thet entabiishment of a Moscow
presentasive would result in dominatton of Japanese
seugtegatler wy Sovtet fovernment. CURAD c X 68160
Popllea that a Russian stshop had mot been tnvited
and the Napanese congregavion was aetively reslsting
Sovlet pressure. Subsequent to thls a protest was
"seolved from the senior seevetary of the Consistory
c the Japanese Orthodox Churen vequesting SoAP's
protection from Sorlet dominatlon. This protest stateds
that at a meeting held 24 November 1946 "suddenly withopt
FILED
a forewarning, there arrived at the meeting a Sovles
1947
official
工
PERMANENT REGORD COPY:
THIS
PLAIN
UST BE RETURMED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
工
HOTATION CF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.90)
PLAIN
-2-, Unnumbered, Peb uemy 1, 1947, from Tokyo.
offialel Mi ste" Volgin, who was accompanied by a
group of Russian emigran ts conslsting of epproximately
ton persons. Miate Volgin stated that the Japanese
Chureh shoul not re eivo the American bishop who
is not abidiog to th Mcseow patrlarch and should not
"eselve snyt pdy ithput permisslon from Mosoow. Mister
Volgin state e se two bishops arriving in the
neer future om Yoe ow
These legitimate bishops
must be gree te apanese Church." The protest
further stat sd
take this sten because it Ls
becoming ob lou that trs Soviet officlal and his
oubjeets sre lm rding to seize our chursh for some
partlouler Iol ) pu pose. For your informetlon,
do should li a  meatici theat the Russian emigrants
whe have ve ert aagut ed Sovlet eitizenahip have no
ght to Ini w th ou shurch mattere because they
are wot bonr t mombe  of the parieh and never paid
any ehuveh  moom shtp a es. In goneral, the llliterate
Russtans th: at toar che Japanese outhodox Church was
essabliehed vimn Puesfan money and therefore belongs
by inher ltar ee o ths So viets. There was a time when
we were meee vim some puppovt from the Russlan
Thelatlan Masie but uring the later period, which
extends for no  than sriaty years, we have wecelved
no aseistan or aey  uerters. We, the Japanese,
were working Lmtopendently, end, for example, recon-
strusted thet Pokyo sathedral after the fire with our
own money. he orore we do not want to be aubjected
to the will of the Moseow Communistls patrlerch." This
protess was ere  ed to the Sovtet member of the Allled
Counell for apn on 1s ecember requestlng his comments
in the matte
No reply has been recelwed from the
Soviet membe .
Or. 15 Desember 1946, a reguest was re-
celvod from sr orter member of the Allleo Counell for
learanee ir to  yan fo two btshops of the Orthodox
Chursh from Suae  togsther with a seoretery, Vasilly
Mihailovteh soo ry, thrs cequeet was allogedly based
on a two-fol i w stnso appeal from the looal shureh to
the Most Eoly Als It, paty Lareh of Moseow and of all
Russie. The e was mo k owledge in this headquertere of
sueh en appe al kowe ey in vtew of what appeared to be
an Loeonslst nay n the deatres of the Japanese Orthodox
Church. a represortative of this headquarters met with
ranking offlelule of thtn
church
PLAIN

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.94)
PLAIN
-3- Unnumber d, Feruary 1, 1947, from Tokyo
ohurch to determ ne the true situation. This
conference eveeled that the conslstory of the ohurch
as a democratically eleeted bely, that the deolslon to
request ar Ameri en bishop was made unanimously at
a conference held in Ap ii 1946, representatlon at thte
conferenee wes one delegete to each fifty partshioners.
Chureh ofrietals state thet they were "utterly opposed"
to the introluction of e bishop from the USSR. They
sald pressur wer pelng felt from the Sovlet mission
e, but tht this 'pressure was unseen" because it
vas exerted hror gn membere of the local White Russlan
(ommunity." inee the possibility of unauthorlzed pressure
fcom membere of th occupation forces vas sonsed, the
SeAP represoatative parefully questloned the church
officlals in an orfo"t to detect any such posslbility.
This questloning resulted in a statement by church
offleiale that United States members of the occupatlon
forses were partieipating in church aotivitles but
were in no w y exe ting pvessure or causing interference.
Chu"ch offle lals t en expressed a fear of violenoe upon
the arrival of the blahop from the United Stetes. They
were assured of soap's proteetion. As a result of
this conferemee und she written protest recelved from
the Chuveh, eply was made to requost of Sovlet member
that "the wiwn or the Jepanese congregation appears to
be elearly e pressed in the request to this headquarters
for a bishop from the Orthodox Church in the United States
and in the p otest" mefevred to above. "In view of
the foregoine the equeated clearanee will not be
Srented." It conroetion with the Sovlet members request.
It is bellev d ty ntelligenee sourees here that the
sesretary, V silly Mihallovich Sokolov, mey be the
Sovlet agent who assompanled an Orthodox bishop to
the Untted Spates in 1945 when the RussLan Chureh attempted
to assume do tinat Lon of the Orthodox Church in North
Amerlen. No accurate information is available concerning
the alleged wo rold written appeel to the Hoscow
peirlaob but infcrmel informatlon indieates one such
request was made by four local White Russlans to the
Sovlet membe tepresonting themselves es expressing the
desiree of s e chuveh. Bishop Benjamin of the diosese
of Plttsburg and Wost Virginia arrived in Tokyo on
7 Januey
PTAIN

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
PLAIN
-4- Unnumbe ed, February 1, 1947, from Tokyo
7 Jenuary withort incident and is assisting the
Orthodox Chu ch in the status of a representative
misslonary as eatablished in OURAD Z X 26123. The
Intelllgence seotlon of this headquarters has suspeoted
for some time thet the Orthodox Chureh In Japan with
some 40, 000 members lad been selected to be the center
of Soviet propeganda and intalligence.
MESSACE UNSIGNED
EHL:ACM
PLAIN

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
APR171947
UNRESTRIOTED
No.
1850
147To the
Officer in Charge of the Ameriean Mission,
Moseow.
894.404
The Acting Seeretary of State tranemits for the
information of the Mission the text of an ummumbered
894.404/2-147
telegram dated February 1, 1947 frem Tokye eoneerning
the refusal of the Supreme Commander fer the Allied
Powers to permit the entry inte Japan of a representa-
tive or the Moscow Patriarch. This telegram was reseived
in reply to an inquiry from the Department as to the
facts rolating to the Tass despateh coneerning this mat-
ter and through error was not repeated to Mossow.
"REURAD 29 January 28, 6 p.m.
"Tass Ageney dispateh frcm Vladivostok is
yK
considered to be a malicious distortion of fast.
Chronological outline of facts follows:
861.404
5
"The need of the Orthodox Chureh in Japan
for a bishop first came to the attention of this
headquarters normally in September when a letter
was received requesting 'that permission be
granted for a bishop of the Orthodox Greek
Catholie Church of North Ameriea to enter Japan
for a temporary stay to assist the Japan Orthodex
Church in performanee of necessary religious fune-
tions.' This letter was signed by three ranking
members of the consistory of the Japanese Orthedex
Churoh. This request was relayed to His Eminenee
CS/M
Metropolitan Theophilus, head of the Orthodox
Greek Cathelie Charah or North America through the
Joint Chiefs of Staff by OURAD C 65872. On 7
December, URAD War SVC 7ö45 was received expressing
fears of the Munig" chureh group that establishment
894.409
of a Moscow representative would result in domina-
tion of Japanese congregation by Soviet Gevernment.
OURAD C X S8l60 replied that a Russian bishep
had
20€
OF Unit
2-147
ne
in
is

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.96)
VERESTRIOTER
-2
had mot been invited and the Japamese 
subsequent to this a protest was rscsitef f
the senier seeretary of the Gensistery of t
Japanese Orthedex Chmreh requesting SGap's pe
testion from Seviet domimation. This pretes
'suddenly without a forewarning, there arrived
at the meeting a Soviet efficial, Mister Velgin,
whe was aecompanied by a group of Russían smi-
grants consisting of approximately ten persems.
Hister Volgin stated that the Japamese Carek
should not receive the Ameriean bishep whe is
not abiding to the Moseew patriarek and sheuld net
receive anybody without permission frem Messew.
Mister Volgin stated 'there are two bishops
arriving in the mear future frem Mossow. These
legitimate bishops must be greeted by the
Japanese Chursh.i The protest further stated
'we take this step because it is beeoming ebvi-
ous that the Seviet offieial and his subjeste are
intending to seize our chureh for some partieular
political purpose. For your infermation, we
should like to mention that the Russian emigrants
who have recently asquired Soviet eitisenship
have no right to interfere with our ehureh mat-
ters because they are not bona fide members ef
the parish and never paid any church memberahip
dues. In general, the illiterate Russiams think
that the Jananese Orthodox Church was established
with Russian money and therefore belongs by
inheritanee to the Soviets. There was a time
when we were receiving some support from the Russiam
Christian Mission, but during the later period,
which extends for more than thirty years, we have
received no assistance from any quarters. We, the
Japanese, were working independently, and, for
example, reconstrueted that Tokyo oathedral after
the fire with our own money. Therefore we do
not want to be subjected to the will of the
Moscow Communistio patriaroh.' This protest was
referred to the Soviet member of the Allied
Council fer Japan on 16 Deeember requesting his
comments in the matter. No reply has been
received from the Soviet member. On 16 December
1946, a request was received frem the Seviet mem-
ber of the Allied Couneil for clearance imto Japam
for two bishops of the Orthodox Church from Russia,
together with a seeretary, Vasiliy Mihailovich
Sokolev, this request was allegedly based on a
two-fold written appeal from the local Church to
the Most Holy Alex II, patriareh of Noveow and or
all Russia. There was no kmowledge in this head-
quarters of sueh an appeal. However, in view of
what appeared to be an ineonsisteney in the desires
of the Japanese Orthodox Chureh, a representative
of this headquarters met with ranking ofrieials
of

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
UNRESTRIOTE
of this church to determime the true sitaatiom
was made unanimously at a conferenes held in
April 1946, representation at this eenferense
was one delegate to each fifty parishiomers.
Charch officials state that they were 'utterly
opposed' to the introduction of a bishep frem
the UssR. They said pressure was being felt
from the Soviet mission here, but that this
'pressure was unseen' because it was exerted
through members of the local White Russian Com-
munity.' Since the possibility of unauthorised
pressure from members of the occupation ferees
was sensed, the SCAP representative carefally
questioned the church officials in an effort to
detect any such possibility. This questioming
resulted in a statement by church officials that
United States members of the ocoupation forees
were participating in chureh activities but were
in no way exerting preseure or causing interfer-
ence. Ohureh officials then expressed a fear of
violence upon the errival of the bishop frem the
United states. They were essured of scap's pre-
tection. As a result of this conference and the
written protest received from the Churoh, reply
was made to request of Soviet member that 'the
wish of the Japanese congregation appears to be
clearly expressed in the request to this head-
quarters for a bishop from the Orthodox Chureh in
the United States and in the protest' referred to
above. 'In view of the foregoing the requested
clearanee will not be granted.' In connection
with the Soviet memberk request, it is believed
by intelligence sources here that the secretary,
Vasiliy Mihailovich Sokolov, may be the Soviet
agent who sccompanied an Orthodox bishop to the
United States in 1945 when the Russian Church
attempted to assume domination of the Orthedox
Church in North America. No sccurate infermation
is available concerning the alleged two-fold
written appeal to the Moscow patriarch but infermal
information indicates one such request was made
by four local White Russians to the Seviet member
representing themselves as expressing the desires
of the ehurch. Bishop Benjamin of the diocese of
Pittsburgh and West Virginia arrived in Tokye on
7 January without incident and is assisting the
Orthodox Chureh in the status of a representative mis-
sionary as established in OURAD z X 26125. The
intelligenee section of this headquarters has sus-
peeted for some time that the Orthodex Church in
Japan with some 40, 000 members had been seleeted
to be the center of Soviet prepaganda and
APR 16
intelligenee."
EE:RDavie:bab
4/11/47

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
No. 77
THE TOREIGN SERVICE
ACG6-1947
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
RESTRICTED
American Consulate General
Rec'd
Dairen, China, Merch 20,1947
July 25, 1947
ACTION
FE
Subject: Transmitting Copy of Despatch Entitled
"Acquisition of Japanese Shinto Shrine
INFO
the Orthodox Church".
DCR
EUR
OIC
FC
The Consul General at Dairen transmits for the in-
894.404/3-2047
WAR
formation of the Department en ozalid copy of his despatch
NaVY
CIG
to the Embassy at Nanking No. 80 dated Narch 20, 1947,
POL.A-0-0-0
entitled "Acquisition of Japanese Shinto Shrine by the
Orthodox Church。
Enclosure;
1. Despatch No. 80
840,4
HMBenninghoff/ip
SS
N
RESTRICTED
DC
KS
Vm

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
No。 80
RESTRICTED
Americen Consulate General
Dairen, China, March 20,1947
Subject: ccuisition of Japanese Shinto Shrine by
the Orthodox Church
The onorable
J. reighton Stuart
mericen mbassador
anking
Sir:
I have the honor to report, as an interesting side-
li ht cn oviet occupation policies and Soviet intentions
with respect to the permanency of their sway in Dairen,
tnet with the evecuation of virtually all the Japanese,
the prerises of the Dairen Jhrine, symbol of Japanese
inperialism, heve been turned over to the Orthodox church.
It is rw ored thet the main church, now in a rather remote
section of the city, will be moved to the new and excellent
location overlooking the city.
Severel hundred printed proclamations have been put
up on the sarine buildings and crounds announcing the tran-
sfer, and pronising punishr ent to persons who deface the
buildings, cut the trees, or otherwise deface the premises.
This proclamation is sisned by the municipality, a local
Chinese organiz tion placed in office by the Russians.
Several Rus:ian suerds have been observed within the grounds
of tre shrine.
It would seer that this symbol of apanese imperialism
should more ap ropriately be put at the disposition of the
Chinese overn ent.
Respectfully yours,
merrell Benninghoff
Aerican Consul General
Ori inal and copy to Nanking
Ozalid to Departnent under
cover of despatch No. 77.
Copy to : oscow
Copy to . ukden
S40.4
HBenninghoff/ip
DESTETCTED

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
CO NOT DETACH THIS FORM.
FILE NO.
894.404/6-1047
R EC:OR D
COPY
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
N TED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE CRIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
DESP.360 FROM RANGOON
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOF FILING.
--000--
111943
FILED

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.94)
360
ALERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Rangoon, Burm, June 10, 1947 AUG 28 1947
Roc'd
Aug.19,1947
AOTION:
FE-enc
UD
I1TO:
OCD
DCR
NEA
OIE -enc
SUBJLCT:
Lditorialist Objeots to Replucenent of
ITP
Jupaneso Luddhism by Christianity.
WAR-enc
MAVY
CIG
TE HONORABLE
Po1-
M2-02
TE SECRETARY CF STATE,
MASHI GTOH.
894.404
Sir:
I have the honor to trunsmit us of possible
11
interost to the Depurt ont a copy of an editorial
which a  eured on May 27, 1947, in The Durman.
The editoriul com onts upon a Reuter despatoh which
is said to have regorted thut Futior Joseph Flunagan,
founder of the tnited Stutes "Boys' Town Club" of
Tokyo, told press corres endents on May 22, 1947,
that the Ja anese nation would become Christian
in the course of the next fev years.
10
The editorial vritor coneludes fran this that
47
" conseious effort is bein nade to discouruge
Buddhisn i. Jupan. The writer decries this policy
und imy lies that it may be related to an ondeavor
by so e Cecidental interests to eliminate the
ossibility of en Criental povers again rising
to a pluce ef first importunce us u orld fover.
The vriter in closing makos the folloving
observution:
"our visn is to see Jajan rise uguin as a
big deloeratic force in the East. And, for
this to happen. ve do not see amy nesessity
for the Japonese to chunge Buddinlsn tor any
other fuith! "
Respectfully yours,
L. L. Packer
A srican Consul General
Enclosure:

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.93)
Rangoon, Burna
Despatch No. 360
June 10, 1947
-2-
Enclosure:
Clipping fron The Burran of May 27. 1947
ontitled "Jajxn s Future"
Filc No. 840.4
laUsher/kkg
Original und hoctogruph to Departnent
U.CL..LFIED

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.94)
AD0-hunsale
SIVI
July ?4, 1947
2
The President of the United States
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
894.404/7-2447
I am writing to you in behalf of the Pauline Missionary
Society of St. Mark's Lutheran Church of Evansville, Indiana.
In our discussion meeting for July an article was read
concerning Chitose Kishi who is head of the Lutheran Church
in Japan. IN a further article, it was brought to our attention
that Mr. Kishi had been granted clearance by Sweden to attend
the Lutheran World Federation Meeting in Lund, Sweden, however,
he did not arrive, due to the fact that 'occupation authorities
in Japan clamped a ban on any native churchman attending the
international religious conference.u
For our owm information, we would like to be enlightened
on the above.
A reply will be greatly appreciated.
Very truly yours,
Fesie Zuche
CS/
Miss Elsie Fuchs
2812 West Virginia St.
Evansville, Indiana
A
auseu.
FAS
/9-2447
817/4

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.90)
UC01047
In reply refer to
200 024.404/7-2447
894.404/7-2447
Nty dear Mies Fuahs:
The receipt is acknowlodged of yeur lester ef
July 24, 1947 with regard to the attendanee of Mer. Chitese
Xishi at a Lartheran World Yederatiem Meeting at Land,
Sweden. You state that Mr. Kimhi did not arrive in
Sweden due to the fast that "oesmpatien authorisies
La Japan elauped a ban an ay native ahurahman attend-
ing the internationel religious conferemse".
As you may be aware, the responsibility for ferme
Lation of policy with respect to Japan rests with the
Far Kastern Commission. The United States Geverment
recently pleced before that body a statement of the
mander for the Allied Powers was informed that it mas
not deemed desirable to permit Japanese nationale to
go abroad exeept in these inetanoes where their move-
ment was regarded by mCap ns ossential to the Japamess
reorientation program.
CS/A
You may be assured that the Dopartment is endeaves
ing in every way to expedite a decision on this matter
as it is fully aware of the importanoe of resstablishin
sultural ties between Japan and the rest of the world at
as early a date as possible.
incerely yours,
For the seeretary of State:
147
Frank A6 Bahuler, Jr.
nssceiate Chief
Division of Ooeupied Arees
diss Alsie Fuans
2812 west virginte street,
2
Evaneville, Indiana.
C
7
ADO:FaSchulor, Jr.Imby
8/7/47

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.94)
NA
AIRGRAM
FEB1
2044
PROM:
USPOL
Jate of Mailing: January
SECHET
Rec'd:
Fot. 11, 1948
The secretary of tate,
Orfioe o1
1:41
3
Vashington.
FAR EASTERN AFFANS
D
FFB 12 1948
ACTION FE
TFO
DIRECION
Depertment of State
DC/R
3/
A-16. Jaruary 27, 1948
Reference is made to the Deparunent's secret
instruction No. 1, January 5, 1948, to the Orfice of
the Personal Represontative of the President to Hi
Holiness Pope Pius XII, Vatican City, copy of which
forwarded to this  ission.
In reply to an informal inquiry addressed by th
Mission to the chief U. S. Army intclligence authoriw
in Tokyo regarding the existence of a Christian Frent
in Japan, there has been received the following seeret
information dated Januury 24, 1948: 
"There is no direct evidence available
to G-2 as yet, to indicate the extension of
the Onristian Front to Japan, though in my
opinion such an extension is to be expected.
FEB191948
We have some slicht indication that the
international Jesuit organization la an
adhive sponsor, It is possible that Father
uralsh, now in Tokyo, is on an international
survey; this is speculative at this time."
Polad will forward to the Jepartment any defim
information which may be received on this subjppt.
SEBALD
840.4

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
V200
OTHEASAAFFAIRS
No. 158
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
1948
FOR JAPAN
CEFARTMIENT OF STATE
DCR
UNCLASSIFIED
March 13, 1948
0
Subjeet: Round Table Conference on Christian Culture and Peace
4.43
14.00
9
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
894.404/3-1348
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report the establishment of a Christian
organization in Japan which calls itself the Round Table Confer-
ence on Christian Culture and Peaee. The membership includes
some twenty members from the two houses of the Diet, several mem-
bers of the Cabinet, representatives from the principal Japanese
Christian organizations, and individuals from among Catholic and
Protestant missionary groups now working in Japan. The chairman
is Mr. SEkIYA Teisaburo; a confidential biographical data report
on Mr. Sekiya was submitted to the Department under date of Feb-
016
ruary 28, 1948.
During February the organization addressed communications to
the Prime Minister, the Minister of Education, and other persons
with regard to the need of religious education as an essential
part of democratization, particularly in connection with men who
are returning to civilian life from the former Japanese armed
forces. Copies of the communications have been retained in the
Mission's files, together with a list of the organization's mem-
bership.
An officer of the Mission has discussed at some length with
Mr. Sekiya the views of the organization with regard to a number
CS/A
of current Japanese problems. A memorandum of conversation is
enclosed herewith. It will be noted that the Japanese are re-
ported as hoping for democratization of the country through the
training of students to be assisted by the early coming to Japan
of foreign teachers, through enlightened labor leadership, and
through the continued assistance of the Occupation -- which
should continue at least another two years, according to the view
presented.
74.4041
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure
13.1348

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 158
-2-
March 13, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure:
Memorandum of conversation,
January 23, 1948, Mr. Sekiya
and Mr. Bruner.
Original, ozalid and three
copies to the Department
840.4/842
GBruner:fmw
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 79 === (confidence 1.00)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 158
dated March 13, 1948 from the
Office of the Political Ad-
viser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Round Table Confer-
ence on Christian Culture and
Peace".
(COPY)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
January 23, 1948
SUBJECT:
Attitudes of the Japanese Toward the Occupation;
Hopes of the Japanese
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. SEKIYA Teisaburo, 3 Kioi-cho, Chiyoda Ku,
Tokyo (33-2290), Chairman, Round Table Confer-
ence on Culture and Peace
Mr. Glen Bruner
At the request of Mr. SEKIYA, I called at his home at 1:00
p.m., January 23, 1948, for a thirty-minute conference on "Atti-
tudes of the Japanese Toward the Occupation and Hopes of the
Japanese". Mr. Sekiya set forth his attitudes and hopes as fol-
lows:
1. Students: It is noped that the authorities will increase
the percentage of former students in Army and Navy officers' train-
ing schools, who are to be permitted, under regulations issued by
the Occupation, to enroll in schools of higher learning. During
the war almost every qualified young man was enrolled for training
as a future officer of the Japanese Army or Navy. Many of these
young men, not having been graduated, were never officers. It is
desirable that as many as possible of these students be permitted
to enter the new "democratized" schools and be trained to be leaders
in the "New Japan".
Although real life as experienced in Soviet-controlled areas
by Japanese who have returned is not pictured as sufficiently de-
sirable to tempt these young men to become "communistic", the utter
lack of opportunity to receive training in democratic ways of
thinking leaves many of present-day Japan's young men potential
victims of the propaganda of the so called "underground". To
train these potential leaders in democratic ways would be, it is
respectfully submitted, to further the interests of the Occupation.
2. Labor: While it would be reasonable to believe that the
intent of the Occupation is to organize labor so that the economic
welfare of labor and of the nation might be enhanced, the effect
of labor organizations seems, in fact, to be that agitators in-
dulge in tea drinking, smoking and "meetings" during the estab-
lished eight-hour period when they are supposed to be working.
UNCLASSIFIED
Unions

=== Page 80 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 158
March 13, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
Unions are known adversely to affect the work of educators,
of officials, and of those engaged in nursing affairs, so much so
that conscientious teachers, honest officials and devoted nurses
are reportedly unable to serve according to the dictates of their
own consciences.
The policy of official inspection tours, such as the recent
one throughout the coal fields, is highly to be commended. It
resulte in increased production. The hope of the Japanese is that
labor unions, which ultimately may be good, may be used not solely
for the selfish interests of groups, but for the rebuilding of the
nation.
3. Education: The early return of foreign teachers to
Japanese middle schools, high schools and universities is urged.
The recent relaxing of the former stringent rules under which
missionaries were allowed to come to Japan is greatly appreciated.
It is hoped that not only will large numbers of teachers and
missionaries flock to Japan, but that the way will be opened soon
for qualified Japanese to proceed to the United States for higher
education. Students sent fron Japan should not be limited to
theologues, but should include leaders in every field of endeavor.
4. The Occupation: Great strides have been made in the
progress of the Ocoupation which should continue at least another
two years. The favor of the continued personal presence of the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers is urgently requested.
This should continue until the conclusion of, and if possible,
through the implementation of, the peace treaty.
While the "paper" democratization of the Japanese nation is
nearing completion, the true process has hardly begun and is in
no wise effective. The peeple are not conscious of the great un-
accustomed personal responsibilities which devolve upon them in
return for their new rights.
While the intention of the Occupation is understood and
heartily endorsed, basic changes in nation-wide systems are
fraught with many difficulties. For instance, are local Japanese
authorities whose ideas of democracy are newborn competent to ap-
point and supervise police? Is a land policy wherein landlords
are made to disappear and tenants are put in unaccustomed posi-
tions of affluence and responsibility actually going to work for
the bettermant of the countryside?
Glen Bruner
711.9
GBruner:fmw
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.91)
NO. 8B
DIVISION OF
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
E
OF THE
APR151948
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADO
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
①U/R
lontreel, Canada, March 31, 1948
RESTRICTED
DIG OCCUPIED AREAS DIVISION
(A88)
SUBJECT:
Religious Tducation in Jepen.
MAY141948
GEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.404/3-3148
The Consul General has the honor to enclose
for the attention of the appropriate division of
the Depertment three copies of e letter written by
Taul Y. Taguchi, Bishop of Cseke, Osake-fu, Japan.
The letter hes been trenslated from the original
French. It is eddressec to the Nother Ceneral of
an order in St. Hyecinthe, uebec, which contemplates
sending e group of Americen nuns to Japan.
It is thou ht that the letter mioht be of
FE
interest to the Division of Japanese Affairs.
CIE
OCD
0
nclosure:
J.N.
letter, in triplicate.
DGA
File no. 842/840.4
51
18
Frederic . Behr/jwc
AM 10
GSEV
5
RESTRICTED
MAY 19 1948
3
FILED
-31

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
TRANSLATION
Osaka, August 3, 1946
To The Most Reverend Lother General
Congregation of Iresentation of I ary,
St. Hyacinthe, Cenada.
ost everend Lother,
Since the end of the wer, the public opinion concerning
Christianity end the situation towards Catholicism in this
country has completely changed. e are now enjoying for the
first time in our history  perfect freedom of feith and
reliious practice.
Libereted from traditi nel prejudice and from mythical
ideels, the Tapanese people seem to be disposec to edopt
catholic feith. In fect, several of our compatriotes wish
erdently to discover the eternal and invulnereble truth which
could become the firm basis of our spiritual end intellectuel
life. The uestion of Christianity has been set as vanruard
by the fect thet he people heve lost confidence in their old
relirious sects. So, it is the approlriete time for catholic
propegende.
The intellectual clesses understend perfectly thet it is
the most urgent thii, it i  relirious belief, and the present
crisis of minds cen only be overcome through relirious educe-
tion. Also, we con elready perceive : vest-spread trend
towards Christienity amon: these classes as well as in our
primary eno secondery catholic schools.
In Japan, tlere ere two centers, from the political,
economic, intellectuel end religious pint of view: one of
these centers is Tokyo, ca ital of Japan, the most eminent
political center; the other one is Osake, commerciel and
industrial center above ell. is to culture end customs Japan
is divided in Kanto (oriental part) end in Mensai (occidental
part). Tokyo is the center of Kanto, and Osaka is the center
of Kansai. The prefecture of Tokyo hes a population of near
7,000,000 inhabitants. The prefecture of Osaka, near
6,000,000. Tokyo is surrounded by & lerge city; Yokohame
(about 1,o0o,ooo inhabitants) and by severel small towns.
Osake is in the vicinity of two lerge cities: Kobe (near
1,000,000 inhebitants) and Kyoto (1,030,000) end severel
other small towns.
peaking only or I ensai, that part of the country has
been the principel scene of Japen's history. Kyoto and Jara
were for a long while the capitals of Japan, and Osaka was
the capital of that famous Toyotomi Hideyoshi.
Jepanese culture end history ere much more end well
represented by the Kansei then by the Tanto. In a financial
point of view sake, named the Iittle New York, being the
national center of commerce end industry, there is more
wealth than in the l'anto; all the large banks and companies
heve their centrel or principal headquerters et Osaka. Kobe
is a large commerciel end internetionel city as Yokohama.
As fer as catholic schools are concerned, in the saka
diocese, the Jesuits and the  arianists have secondary and
very flourishing schools at Kobe and Osaka respectively.
The nuns have seven seconaary schools in different cities
of/
RESTRICTED

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
-2-
of the diocese. But this number is far from being sufficient
to meet the exigencies and necessities of the diocese.
According to recent statistics, there are near ten
millions of inhabitants in the diocese of Osake among which
are only ten thousanc catholics, and in the apostolic
prefecture of Shikoku, of vhich I am the apostolic adminis-
trator, there are only six hundred catholics on three millions
and half inhabitants. There ere 15 cities havin at least
50,O00 inhebitants in the diocese of Osake, where there is
no catholic church or school. The apostolical field for
education end teeching is vast. It seems thet it would be
the appropriate time to build catholic schools.
Until now, our schools officielly recognized by the
Ja anese ov rnment were not uthorized to provide their
students ublicly with religious educetion, but the war being
over the situation is quite different. Authorities are now
officielly crentin catholic schools freedom for religious
teac:ing end participetion in reli ious ceremonies. People
willingly let their children come to our schools being
convinced thet catholic schools can provide education in
its hi~hest conception. l'ost of the students from our few
cetholic schools ere already catechumens, and the parents
are authorizing very willingly the beptism of their children.
Also, the : inistry of ducetion will condescend to recognize
the buildin of catholic primary end parochial schools. At
last Cod's eppeal has been heerd by Japan!
Frotestants are takin? adventage of the present situation.
hey have numerous primery and secondary schools, even colleges
nd universities in my diocese. The "Boudhists and Shintoists"
have also meny flourishin: end old-time schools of all kinds.
Tt is then absolutely imperative to heve several catholic
primary snd secondary schools as well es universities.
e are then urgently requesting, Our Reverend 'other,
to be so kind as to send us well-qualified and diligent nuns,
graduates if possible, for hirh school teaching. lease also
send a few nuns of American nationelity, beceuse the young
Ja enese generation is now very eager to learn Fnglish.
The nuns would therefore be in a position at the beginning
to teach nglish like in Canada and the United  tates. Lit tle
by little they coulo learn Japanese. hey coulo easily find
good ley-professors as au iliaries.
The Osaka diocese cannot help in any way in the matter
of expenses, beceuse helf of the churches have been destroyed
and must be rebuilt. But if you are willing to build a number
of schools, I, vith the eid of my priests, will do my utmost
possible to help you, for instance. in the way of locating
appropriate land.
As it is todey almost impossible to build convenient
schools, in view of the lack of material, you will heve to
encounter, until better times, temporary accommodetion. But
it is very easy no to buy a good land. If the transportation
of materiel could be done from abrosd, it woulc be ideal.
As e general rule, the cetholic organizetions for education
in this country ere in a position to maintein themselves
without outsice financial assistence after e few years.
The/
RTSTRTCTUD

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.95)
2
RESTRICTUD
-3-
The nuns coula come first ten at a time and then increase
according to the need.
I will be glad, Yost Reverend Mother, to receive a kind
letter with the news of the arrival of your nuns end permission
from your Congregetion to build schools in my diocese.
Hopins to have a fevoreble answer, I am,
vour devoted servent,
X PAUL. V. TAGUCHI,
Bishop of Osaka
Temporery ishop's Talace
". 131l, hinmen
Toyonaka-shi
Osake-fu, Jepan.
A true translated copy of
the signed original:

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.96)
Braneh
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
SPECIAL STAFF, UNITED STATES ARMY
JUN 2319
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
OCCMPIED
MAY 27 1948
25 May 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dr. Daniel C. Buchanan
Japanese-Korean Branch
Division of Occupied Areas
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Dr. Buchanan:
Inclosed is a copy of a letter dated 17 May 1948
894.404/5-2548
from Mr. T. Mukoyama to the Chief, Civil Affairs Division.
Please refer the contents of this letter to the
proper sections in your Department and report to us your
reactions.
Sincerely yours,
Wihim a 
EDGAR ERSKINE HUME
Brigadier General, &sc
Chief, Reorientation Branch
1 Incl
Civil Affairs Division
Cpy 1tr 17 May
by T. Mukoyama
ORTEAIRS
JUN18 1948
74.404
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
5-2548
CSA
1579

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
HONGWANJI BUDDHIST MISSION OF NORTH AMERICA
Written at Raleigh Hotel
Washington, D.C.
May 17, 1948
912-South Mason Ave.
General Daniel Nose
Chicago 44, Illincis.
Chief, Civil Affairs Division
Department of Army
Washington 25, D.C.
Dear Sir:
On behalf of The Hongwanji Buddhist Mission of North America. I am
taking the liberty of contacting you in order to receive permission for
the visit to the United States of our Chief Abbot Kosho Otani of Hompa
Hongwanji who heads 12,000 temples throughout Japan, comprising a member-
ship of over 15,000,000, the largest religious group in Japan.
The Hongwanji Buddhist Mission of North America has a membership of
approximately 90,000 in the mainland of the United States. (The Territory
of Hawaii, under Hawaii Hongwanji Missions has a membership of approxi-
mately 120,000.) Churches numbering 42, spread from coast to coast in the
United States, and include all Pacific Coast cities, Denver, Salt Lake
City. Minneapolis, St. Louis, Chicago, Detroit, Cleveland, New Jersey and
New York.
We wish to point out that the Nisei war veterans who fought with dis-
tinction in Italy and in the Pacific Theatre, are overwhelmingly of the
Buddhist faith. Japanese -- Americans soldiers are now contributing and
have in the past contributed greatly in the Pacific theatre, partly due
to their knowledge of the Japanese language. These language schools are
exclusively run by our Mission.
There are many functions in the Buddhist religion which require the
consent and supervision of the Chief Abbot. An example of this is the Kikyo-
Shiki, posthumous naming of the members of the church, and the most important
ceremony in the Buddhist faith. The Chief Abbot alone has the authority to
carry out this function.
On his visit to the United States, the Chief Abbot would, of course,
like to visit each of our churches, and his visit would require from two
to three months in order to accomplish this purpose.
The Hongwanji Buddhist Mission of North America, with headquarters at
188l Pine St., San Francisco, California, will guarantee all his expenses
of travel and maintenance during the Chief Abbot's visit here.
The writer has been delegated to make this request of you, and your
reply to him at the address indicated below will be much appreciated.
C
Very respectfully yours,
0
/s/ T. Mukoyama
P
T. MUKOYAMA
Y

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.92)
JUN
Da raply refer to
JUN251
My dear General Humme:
The receipt is adknowledged of your letter of 
1918, addressed to Mr. D. C. Buchanan, with regard to
Letter of May 17, 1948 from Mr. 7. Makeyama aaking t
Mr. Kosho Otani, Chief Abbot of Hompa Honganji, a
the United States in connestion with the affairs of his
sect.
894.404/5-2548
The contonts of Nr. Mukoyama's letter have been Gevefully
noted. In the viow of the Department of State, Mr. C
travel would not appsar to fall within the limited eak
However, it is suggested that you may wish, befere repl;
to Mr. Mukoyama, to refer his request to SCaP for a furth
opinion in the matter.
Sincerely yours,
Frank  Schuler, Jr.
Chief, Japanese-Kerean Branch
Division of Occupied Areas
Brigadier General Edgar E. Hume, GSC
894.404
Chiof, Reorientation Branch,
Civil Affairs Division,
Department of the Army,
Washington 25, D. C.
205
CR
me 28 1948
15-25
PlES
ADO:MASchuler, Jr./rk
6/14/48
PaEnstaff
1599

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FORDIGN SERVICE
FE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMIERICA
No. 716
AMERICAN EMBASSY
RESTRICTED
New Delhi, India, August 22, 1949
o acin regeir
REC °D
Subject:
Transmission of Memorandum Objecting to Christian
AUG 30
Missionary Activity in Japan
DIVISIGN OT SOUTH ASIAN
ACTION
NEA-FE
THE HONCRABLE
We
INFO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
BCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
OLI
WASHINGTON
DS
UNA
EUR/X
SIR:
894.404/8-2249
C
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a letter dated
August 16, 1949 addressed to the Embassy from several Hindu
and Buddhist societies in India, which objects to the
missionary activities of Christian churches in Japan.
In the opinion of the Enbassy, no action is required on
x R
the part of the Department, at least at this time, as the
Embassy advised the organizations preparing the memor ndum
that if they wished to bring their views to the attention
of the Government of the United States they should transmit
894.013
the memorandum through the Ministry of External Affairs to
the Indian Embassy in Washington with the request that the
latter office forward it to the Department of State.
The Embassy does not possess extensive information about
the standing of the organizations that were responsible for
the transmission of the letter. I doub, however, that
with the possible exception of the Maha boahi Society, they
have a great amount of influence in the determination of the
official Indian Government policy. The Maha Bodhi Society
of India, which is a society of Buddhists, is a fairly well-
known organization and to a certain degree has. been patronized
by the Governmant of. India in its efforts to emphasize
Buddhism as a bond between India and the Buddhist countries
of Southern Asia.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
FAP
0
Howard Donovan
FILED
Counselor of Embassy
1949
Enclosure: att
Letter dated August 16, 1949
320
JJeffersonJonesIII/leb
CC:
American. Consulates General,
R313
Bombay; Calcutta, Madras
ACTION COPY
RESTRIGTED

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 716, dated August 22, 1949. from the
American Embassy, New Delhi, India, on the subject "Trans-
mission of Memorandum Objecting to Christian Missionary
Activity in Japan"
RESTRICTED
C
C
P
Y
Delhi
August 16, 1949
The Ambassador for
United States of America,
New Delhi
Dear Sir,
On behalf of the different Hindu & Buddhist organiza-
tions in India, we beg to submit the following memorandum
which, we hope, you will be good enough to forward to the
Covernment of the United 3tates of America as well as to
General Douglas MacArthur, Supreme commander of the Allied
Powers, in order that the feelings of bitterness & suspicin
that have arisen in this connection in the minds of the
Hindus & the Buddhists may be removed as a result of your
efforts.
After the defeat of Japan in the second World War,
Japanese administration was placed under the charge of the
United Nations Organization, and General Douglas MacArthur
of America was chosen to be the supreme commander & adminis-
trat
Japan. Since then, the reports emanating from
Japan have gone to show that bands after bands of Christian
missionaries have been coming to Japan to accelerate the
proselytization en masse of the Japanese people into Christian
Taith. Consaquently a net work of Christian missions is
said to have sprung up all over Japan. It is alleged that
Christian missionaries, being fully equipped and in possession
of untold resources of enticement and propoganda, have been
able to convert over fifty thousand Japanese from Euddhism -
the ancient faith of Japanese people.
It has been further reported that due to their influ-
ence, the Christian missionaries are being provided with
numerous facilities, right or wrong, by the authorities to
continue their proselytizing activities without let or hin-
drance. If what is alleged above is true, it will undoubtedly
be derogatory to the fair name of America, since America
has always been known for her religious neutrality, mag animity
& large-heartedness. The deep wound inflicted by the use
of Atom Bomb on the Japanese people has not healed up as
yet. On the top. of it the propagation of Christianity in
Japan
RESTRICTED

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 716, dated August 22, 1949 from
the American Embassy, New Delhi, India, on the subject
"Transmission of Memorandum Objecting to Christian Missionary
Activity in Japan"
Restricted
-2-
Japan as afore-said will be adding insult to injury. The
Atom Bomb merely caused the physical death of Japan, but
the aggressive propagation of Christianity will undoubtedly
prove the cultural & spiritual annihilation of Japan.
Communism is spreading rapidly over many countries in
this part of the world and if there is any thing that can
check its onward march, it is Buddhism which is the pre-
vailing religion there. Buddhism is based on the eternal
principles of non-violence, truth, kindliness, forgiveness
& tolerance & if comnunism is to be checked in its march
over Japan and South & South East Asia, then the people of
those countries should, in no case, be weaned away from their
ancestral faith. The spread of Christianity in those countries
instead of stemming the tide of communism has rather gone a
long way to encourage it. Europe has been under the sway
of Christianity since long, but it has utterly failed to
check the flow of communism in Europe. Then it is futile
to expect that the spread of Christianity will save Japan.
from Communism.
We, therefore, request you to kindly forward the above
memorandum to your Government as well as to General Douglas
MacArthur. We further request that the influx of Christian
missionaries into Japan who arrive there for proselytizing
the Japanese people into Christian faith, should be stopped
at once, that no moral, financial or any other kind of support
be extended to the Christian missionaries by the American
Government as well as by the Administration of General Mac-
Arthur, and that the conversion of Japanese people made
after the Second World War should be considered null & void.
May we hope that you will kindly give due weight to
this appeal and also acknowledge the receipt of this memo-
randum.
Thanking you,
Yours Truly,
Sd/
Sd/ J. Bhatt
Secretary
Joint Secretary
Shri Sanatan Dharam
All India Arya (Hindu) Dharama
Pratinidhi, Sabha Funjab,
Sewa Sangha, P.O. Birla Lines,
Birla Mandir, New Delhi
Sabzi Mandi, Delhi
Sd/ Dharma Deva VidyaVachaspati
Sd/ H. Saddhatissa,
Asstt. Secretary, International
Bhikkhu-in-Charge,
Aryan League, Shraddhanand
Maha Bodhi Society of
Balidan Lhawan, Delhi
India, Reading Road,
New Delhi
leb
