894.61331 Agriculture., Field Crops. Seeds., Alkaloidal Plants., Japan, Tobacco., May 5, 1941 (File 1265)
ID: 894.61331-1265   Pages: 32   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.61331-agriculture-field-crops-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.91)
12868
FA
DCA
FA

Voluntary

DIVISION OF
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
JUN 10 1940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

COPIES TO PARAPHRASE
SENT TO O.N.I. AND
M.I.D. IN CONFIDENCE

CONFIDENTIAL

OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
JUN 11 1940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

No. 11

GdPA
Richardson

SALE OF LEAF TOBACCO TO GERMAN INTERESTS
BY THE JAPANESE TOBACCO MONOPOLY

JUN 3 1940

A. V/C
JUN 10 1940
DIVISION OF
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

From American Vice Consul
W. Garland Richardson

Tokyo Consulate General
Date of Completion: April 20, 1940
Date of Mailing: April 24, 1940

894.61331/2

Approved:

George A. Makinson,
American Consul General

File No. 861.33
WGR/yo
Distribution:
Original and 4 Copies to Department.
1 Copy for Embassy.

FILMED
1940
F/A

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

## Contract for Sale of Leaf Tobacco Signed.

On April 19, 1940, a contract was signed by the Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha, Ltd., on behalf of the Imperial Monopoly Bureau providing for the sale to Germany of 200,000 kilos of leaf tobacco at the price of RM 1.00 a kilo. Delivery is to be made in Japan.

In August of last year a contract calling for the sale of 2,000,000 kilos was made. During the first shipment, however, the war in Europe broke out, and the first shipment was captured and confiscated by the British. As a result, the contract was cancelled.

For the past two months various attempts have been made to reach a new agreement. The German interests at first insisted on delivery in Germany by the seller, the tobacco to be shipped by the Trans-Siberian Railway. The Tobacco Monopoly, however, found after investigation that the freight charges by rail were twelve times the cost by sea and that the time of delivery was uncertain. The cost by sea, before the outbreak of the war, was 113 shillings a ton c.i.f. Hamburg. Because of the high cost and uncertainty of delivery, the Monopoly refused to enter into a contract.

## Unwilling to Guarantee Transportation to Vladivostok.

The German interests next proposed to accept delivery at Vladivostok, but this proposal was also refused, as the Monopoly was unwilling to guarantee transportation from Japan to Vladivostok.

Tobacco

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

Tobacco is ordinarily shipped in hogsheads, but in this instance it is provided that the hogsheads are to be broken up into 100 kilo bales, as there will be less loss of space in loading freight cars. It is estimated that one freight car on the Trans-Siberian Railway will hold from forty to sixty bales, with fifty bales as the average.

**Deductions from the Sale.**

The informant stated that it would appear that Germany was having no difficulty in securing transportation for military supplies from Vladivostok to Germany, as otherwise the Germans would not be willing to use for tobacco space equivalent to that of twenty freight cars.

File No. 861.33
WGR/yo
Distribution:
Original and 4 copies to Department.
1 copy for Embassy.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-

**Source of Information.**

Local representative of the British-American Tobacco Company attached to the Japanese Tobacco Monopoly.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 5570 Tokyo, May 5, 1941.
SUBJECT: JAPANESE TOBACCO MONOPOLY LAW
894.61331/3
894.61331
894.61331

DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL TREATIES AND AGREEMENTS
JUN 18 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Sir:

I have the honor to refer to the attached copy of a translation of the Japanese Tobacco Monopoly Law. This translation, which was prepared by the Canadian Legation in Tokyo, includes all revisions of the law. Although no changes have been made in recent years, it is believed that this legislation may be of

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JUN 1941
394.61331
RECEIVED
JUN 19 1941
COMMERCIAL RELATIVES
Department of State

894.61331

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-

of use to the Department of Agriculture or the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce as background material.

Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador

George A. Makinson,
First Secretary of Embassy.

Enclosure:
Translation of the Japanese Tobacco Monopoly Law.

File No. 867.7
DWL/mt

Distribution:
1 original and 2 copies to Dept. of State.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch
no. 5570, dated May 5, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo,
April 10th, 1941.

# THE TOBACCO MONOPOLY LAW.

Law No. 14 promulgated on April 1st, 1904:
as amended by: -

Law No. 12 of March, 1907
Law No. 10 of May, 1917
Law No. 30 of March, 1919
Law No. 10 of March, 1921
Law No. 13 of March, 1923
Law No. 23 of March, 1925

## ARTICLE 1.
The manufacture of tobacco shall belong to the Government monopoly.

## ARTICLE 2.
No tobacco shall be imported by any persons other than the Government and persons who have been appointed by the Government.

## ARTICLE 3.
No tobacco shall be cultivated by any persons other than those who have been appointed by the Government.

## ARTICLE 4.
The Government shall collect leaf tobacco cropped by the tobacco grower.

## ARTICLE 5.
The Government shall fix the area of tillage of tobacco.

## ARTICLE 6.
The Government shall, for each year, fix the kind of tobacco to be cultivated, area of tillage of tobacco and compensation for leaf tobacco, and give public notice previously.

## ARTICLE 7.
A person who desires to cultivate tobacco shall, for each year, fix the position and area of tobacco seed-beds, position and area of tillage of tobacco, kind of tobacco and quantity thereof, place of place, and storing sheds, and obtain permission from the Government; the same shall apply also in the case of change of the foregoing particulars or in the case of discontinuance of cultivation.

## ARTICLE 8.
A person who, other than by inheritance, succeeds to the cultivation of tobacco shall obtain permission from the Government.

A person who, by inheritance, succeeds to the cultivation of tobacco shall obtain permission from the Government.

- ARTICLE -

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

## ARTICLE 9.
No tobacco seedlings shall be raised by any person other than the tobacco grower.

The delivery and receipt of tobacco seedlings shall, as prescribed by Ordinance, be subject to the permission of the Government.

## ARTICLE 10.
A tobacco grower shall be liable to carry out the cultivation of tobacco according to the method and procedure fixed by the Government.

## ARTICLE 11.
The Government shall assess the crop of leaf tobacco before it is cropped. However, if they consider it unnecessary to do so, they may dispense with such assessment.

In the case of the for going assessment, a tobacco grower shall be liable to attend it. If he fails, he shall not be permitted to make any objection regarding the assessment.

## ARTICLE 12.
When dissatisfied with the assessment referred to in the preceding ARTICLE, a tobacco grower may be permitted to enter a protest immediately.

When a protest is made, the Government may, as prescribed by Ordinance, appoint more than two assessors, consider their opinions and give final decision.

In case the difference between the quantity of leaf tobacco under protest and the amount as decided under the preceding paragraph is greater than that between the amount assessed under the preceding ARTICLE and the amount as decided upon under the preceding paragraph, the protester shall be liable to pay the expenses required for such re-assessment.

## ARTICLE 13.
Except with the permission of the Government, a tobacco grower who undertakes assessment referred to in ARTICLE 11 shall not be permitted, before assessment, to crop leaf tobacco or root cut tobacco plants; the same shall apply also to a person who awaits final decision for his protest made in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE 12.

## ARTICLE 14.
In case a tobacco grower has ended the first crop of tobacco leaves, he shall root out the tobacco plant and abandon leaf tobacco adhered around the plant.

A person who desires to collect seeds or make the second crop of tobacco leaves shall obtain permission from the Government.

- When -

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-

When the collection of seeds or the crop of tobacco leaves referred to in the preceding paragraph is ended, a tobacco grower shall proceed as referred to in the first paragraph of this ARTICLE.

ARTICLE 16.
Leaf tobacco croped by the tobacco grower shall, after curing and treatment, be delivered to the Government.

The time and place of delivery shall be fixed by the Government.

Leaf tobacco which has been cropped by the tobacco grower and which is not suitable for delivery to the Government shall be abandoned on a arrival of the Government.

ARTICLE 16.
Leaf tobacco which has been delivered by the tobacco grower shall be assessed by assessors and compensations therefor shall be granted in accordance with its graces.

When dissatisfied with the assessment under the preceding paragraph, a tobacco grower may demand re-assessment except when he has already asked for compensation.

In case the difference between the grade under protest and the grade by re-assessment is greater than that between the grade under the first paragraph of this ARTICLE and the grade by re-assessment, the protester shall be liable to pay the expenses required for such re-assessment.

The provisions in regard to the re-assessment shall be fixed by Ordinance.

ARTICLE 17.
When a tobacco grower who, without good reason, fails to deliver leaf tobacco which was grown in excess of that which has been assessed or decided by the Government, the Government may collect a fine not exceeding three times the value computed in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE 18, paragraph 2.

ARTICLE 18.
In case a tobacco grower privately reduces the area of tillage or discontinues cultivation, the Government may collect a fine equivalent of the value of leaf tobacco to be produced from such reduced or discontinued tillage of tobacco.

The value of leaf tobacco referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be determined on the basis of the cost of production for the type of leaf tobacco similar to that produced in the adjoining tillage and compensation to be granted therefor during the year concerned.

- ARTICLE 19. -

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-

## ARTICLE 19.
When a tobacco grower has reduced the area of tillage or discontinued the cultivation and when there is no person who succeeds to the cultivation in such reduced or discontinued tillage, the Government may abandon tobacco plants or tobacco seedlings existing in such reduced or discontinued tillage.

## ARTICLE 20.
No leaf tobacco produced by the tobacco grower shall be conveyed to any place other than the place of tillage of the tobacco, place of curing, place of storing, or tobacco receiving office.

When deemed necessary, the Government may specify the route and time of transit of leaf tobacco.

## ARTICLE 20-(2).
The Government may order an association formed by tobacco growers or a federation of such associations to make equipment necessary for carrying on the work of the tobacco monopoly or under its assistance.

The Government may, as prescribed by Ordinance, grant the foregoing association or federation a subsidy within the limits of the budget.

## ARTICLE 20-(3).
When tobacco grown by the tobacco grower suffers severely before cropping from wind, flood, oil, drought or diseases, the Government may, as prescribed by Ordinance, grant an indemnity to cover part of the loss caused by the tobacco grower.

## ARTICLE 21.
In case a public institution or an individual person desires to establish an experimental farm for the object of making an experimental cultivation of tobacco, he shall obtain permission from the Government, as prescribed by Ordinance.

The provisions of ARTICLE 4, ARTICLE 7, ARTICLE 9, ARTICLE 15, ARTICLE 16, paragraph 1, and ARTICLE 19 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the experimental cultivation under the preceding paragraphs.

## ARTICLE 22.
No manufactured tobacco shall be sold by any person other than the Government or a tobacco wholesaler or retailer who has been appointed by the Government.

The provisions concerning the seller of tobacco and the
-sale-

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-

sale of tobacco shall be fixed by Ordinance.

## ARTICLE 23.

A tobacco retailer shall not be permitted to sell manufactured tobacco to the consumer at prices other than those fixed by the Government.

A tobacco seller shall not be permitted to open packages of manufactured tobacco which have been sealed by the Government or to repack them, nor shall he be permitted to sell manufactured tobacco in broken packages.

## ARTICLE 25.

In case there is a person who applies for a sale of leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco for the object of export, the Government may sell such tobacco at special prices.

A person who has been granted the sale of tobacco under the preceding paragraph shall, as prescribed by Ordinance, keep books and enter therein particulars concerning his business.

For the benefit of a person who contemplates manufacturing tobacco for export, the Government may permit such person to operate an establishment in a specified locality as a free tobacco warehouse (at its free from the Government monopoly) or accord him a license for the establishment of such a warehouse.

The provisions in respect of the free tobacco warehouse and its license shall be fixed by Ordinance.

## ARTICLE 26.

A person who, according to the provisions of the preceding ARTICLE, has bought leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco for export shall submit to the Government within a period specified by the Government an export permit accompanying by documentary evidence of landing at the port of destination abroad.

In case the permit and documentary evidence referred to in the preceding paragraph are not submitted, without good reason, the Government shall collect, for leaf tobacco, a fine equivalent to the value referred to in ARTICLE 29 and, for manufactured tobacco, a fine equivalent to the value referred to in ARTICLE 30.

## ARTICLE 27.

Neither leaf tobacco nor manufactured tobacco which have been purchased for export from the Government shall, before its export, be transferred to any other person or used for any other object. But such leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco which may have become unfit for export may be abandoned on approval of the Government.

- ARTICLE 28 -

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-

## ARTICLE 28.
When the exportation of leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco which has been purchased for export from the Government is discontinued or when the exportation of such leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco is not made within one year from the date of purchase, the Government may recover such tobacco as may be fit for use, otherwise they shall abandon it.

In the case of the recovering of tobacco under the preceding paragraph, the Government shall grant compensation after assessment by assessors. However, the amount of compensation shall not exceed the selling price referred to in ARTICLE 25.

## ARTICLE 29.
In case the total of the quantities of leaf tobacco exported, abandoned and recovered in accordance with the provisions of this Law together with the quantity of leaf tobacco in stock shows, without good reason, a shortage when compared with the total quantity of leaf tobacco bought from the Government, the Government shall collect from the exporter for such shortage a fine not exceeding the equivalent of four times the selling price under ARTICLE 25.

## ARTICLE 30.
In case the total of the quantities of manufactured tobacco exported, abandoned and recovered in accordance with the provisions of this Law together with the quantity of manufactured tobacco in stock shows, without good reason, a shortage when compared with the total quantity of manufactured tobacco bought from the Government, the Government shall collect from the exporter for such shortage a fine not exceeding the equivalent of twice the difference between the selling price under ARTICLE 23 and the selling price under ARTICLE 25.

## ARTICLE 31.
The Government may grant a permit for the importation of leaf tobacco for specimen purposes.

Any tobacco furnished for specimens shall not be disposed of, except when transferred to another person for the purpose of specimen or when furnished for experimental purpose, or when abandoned on approval of the Government.

## ARTICLE 32.
Such manufactured tobacco as may be indispensable to a person for his own health or for his own habits may, subject to it being for his own use, be permitted to be imported by such person on approval of the Government.

## ARTICLE 33.
Tobacco purchased for export shall not be stored in any places other than those permitted by the Government.

## ARTICLE 34.
Except when permitted under the present Law, no person shall be permitted to own, deliver or receive leaf tobacco manufactured tobacco unless bearing a Government certificate,

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-

or apparatus for tobacco making and tobacco paper.

Except when confiscated under the present Law, all articles referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be disposed of by the Government.

ARTICLE 35.
For the object of business, no person shall be permitted to manufacture or sell any article as a substitute for tobacco.

ARTICLE 36.
Except those who have obtained the permission of the Government, no persons shall be permitted to manufacture, sell or keep apparatus for tobacco making and tobacco paper.

ARTICLE 37.
In case a tobacco grower, experimental tobacco grower, or manufacturer, seller or keeper of apparatus for tobacco making and tobacco paper contravenes the present Law or Regulations thereunder, the Government may cancel the permission for cultivation, experimental cultivation, storing or business.

ARTICLE 38.
The Government may examine tobacco seed-beds, tobacco tillages, tobacco experimental farms, tobacco curing and storing sheds, or any places which are believed to be used to keep tobacco seedling, tobacco, apparatus for tobacco making and tobacco paper and may make disposals necessary with regard to their control.

When deemed necessary, the competent authorities may require the presence of interested persons at the examination referred to in the preceding paragraph.

ARTICLE 39.
In the case where a payment of fee is to be made by any person in accordance with the procedure of the administrative authorities and where a grant of money is to be made by the Government to such person, the official authorities may deduct such payment of fee from the grant of money.

ARTICLE 40.
The provisions of the National Tax Collection Law may be applicable mutatis mutandis in the case of collection of money under the present Law.

ARTICLE 41.
Any person who, without receiving an order or obtaining permission from the Government, attempts to import or imports tobacco shall be liable to a fine equivalent to ten times the value of such tobacco, and the relevant tobacco shall be confiscated. However, the amount of fine shall not be lower than 100 yen.

The value of the tobacco referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be fined on the basis of the cost of
-production-

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-

production or purchase at the place of origin of such tobacco plus amounts corresponding to the packing charge, freight, insurance, other petty charges required for delivery at the place of import, and import duty.

ARTICLE 41-(2).
Any person who contravenes ARTICLE 3 or ARTICLE 9, paragraph 1, shall be liable to a fine exceeding 10 yen but not exceeding 500 yen, and the relevant tobacco or tobacco seedlings shall be confiscated; the same shall also apply to a person who, without obtaining permission, makes an experimental cultivation.

ARTICLE 42.
Any tobacco grower who cultivates tobacco or raises tobacco seedlings in a tillage for which he has not obtained permission, or who cultivates tobacco of a kind for which he has not obtained permission, or who delivers or receives tobacco seedlings without obtaining permission shall be liable to a fine exceeding 5 yen but not exceeding 100 yen, and the relevant tobacco or tobacco seedlings shall be confiscated.

ARTICLE 43.
In case a tobacco grower cures or stores leaf tobacco at a place for which he has not obtained permission, he shall be liable to a fine exceeding 5 yen but not exceeding 100 yen, and the relevant leaf tobacco shall be confiscated.

Any person who, knowing the circumstances, furnishes the place referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be liable to a fine exceeding 5 yen but not exceeding 100 yen.

ARTICLE 44.
Any person who contravenes ARTICLE 13 shall be liable to a fine exceeding 5 yen but not exceeding 100 yen, and the relevant leaf tobacco shall be confiscated.

ARTICLE 45.
In case a person who is liable to abandon leaf tobacco in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE 14 and ARTICLE 19 has cropped such leaf tobacco or collected seed, he shall be liable to a fine exceeding 5 yen but not exceeding 100 yen, and the relevant leaf tobacco or seed shall be confiscated.

ARTICLE 46.
Any person who, unless in the case of clamity or unavoidable accident, contravenes ARTICLE 20, paragraph 1, or any person who conveys leaf tobacco without observing the route and time specified by the Government, shall be liable to a fine exceeding 5 yen but not exceeding 50 yen, and the relevant leaf tobacco shall be confiscated.

ARTICLE 47.
In case a tobacco grower has not, without good reason, delivered leaf tobacco at the time of delivery specified by the Government, he shall be liable to a fine exceeding 3 yen but not exceeding 30 yen.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 1.00)
-9-

## ARTICLE 48.
Any person who transfers to another person or consumes or conceals leaf tobacco which should be delivered to the Government shall be liable to a fine exceeding 10 yen but not exceeding 500 yen, and the relevant leaf tobacco shall be confiscated; the same shall also apply to a person who receives such leaf tobacco.

Any person who, knowing the circumstances, furnishes the place for concealment of leaf tobacco shall be liable to a fine exceeding 10 yen but not exceeding 500 yen.

## ARTICLE 49.
Any person who, not being a tobacco seller, makes sales or makes arrangement for sales of manufactured tobacco shall be liable to a fine exceeding 10 yen but not exceeding 500 yen, and the relevant manufactured tobacco shall be confiscated.

## ARTICLE 50.
Any person who contravenes ARTICLE 23 or 24 shall be liable to a fine exceeding 5 yen but not exceeding 300 yen.

## ARTICLE 51.
In case a tobacco exporter does not keep books, or neglects entry, or makes a dishonest entry he shall be liable to a fine exceeding 10 yen but not exceeding 100 yen.

## ARTICLE 52.
Any person who contravenes ARTICLE 27 shall be liable to a fine exceeding 30 yen but not exceeding 1000 yen, and the relevant tobacco shall be confiscated; the same shall also apply to a person who receives such tobacco.

## ARTICLE 53.
Any person who contravenes ARTICLE 31, paragraph 2, shall be liable to a fine exceeding 2 yen but not exceeding 20 yen; the same shall also apply to a person who receives such tobacco.

## ARTICLE 54.
Any person who transfers to another person tobacco which has been imported in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE 32 shall be liable to a fine exceeding 5 yen but not exceeding 100 yen, and the relevant tobacco shall be confiscated.

## ARTICLE 55.
Any person who contravenes ARTICLE 33 shall be liable to a fine exceeding 5 yen but not exceeding 100 yen; the same shall also apply to a person who, knowing the circumstances, furnishes the place for storing.

## ARTICLE 56.
Any person who takes possession of leaf tobacco produced or grown experimentally by a person who has not obtained permission, or of tobacco seedlings raised by a person who is

- neither -

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-

neither a tobacco grower nor an experimental grower, or leaf tobacco or tobacco seedlings belonging to an unknown person, shall be liable to a fine exceeding 10 yen but not exceeding 500 yen, and the relevant leaf tobacco or tobacco seedlings shall be confiscated.

ARTICLE 57.

Any person who, in contravention of ARTICLE 34, paragraph 1, owns, delivers or receives manufactured tobacco shall be liable, if a tobacco seller, to a fine exceeding 100 yen but not exceeding 1000 yen and, for any other person, to a fine exceeding 10 yen but not exceeding 300 yen, and the relevant manufactured tobacco shall be confiscated.

ARTICLE 58.

Any person who privately manufactures or prepares to manufacture tobacco shall be liable to a fine exceeding 100 yen but not exceeding 1000 yen, and the relevant tobacco, apparatus for tobacco making and tobacco paper shall be confiscated.

ARTICLE 59.

Any person who contravenes ARTICLE 35 shall be liable to a fine exceeding 10 yen but not exceeding 100 yen, and the relevant articles and materials thereof, apparatus for tobacco making and tobacco paper shall be confiscated.

ARTICLE 60.

Any person who contravenes ARTICLE 36 or who takes possession of apparatus for tobacco making and tobacco paper of an unknown owner shall be liable to a fine exceeding 30 yen but not exceeding 500 yen, and the relevant apparatus for tobacco making and tobacco paper shall be confiscated.

ARTICLE 61.

When articles under offence against the present Law are transferred to another person or consumed, or when such articles are unable to be confiscated on account of there being another owner, an amount corresponding to the value of such articles shall be collected.

ARTICLE 62.

Any person who makes a false answer to questions of the competent authorities or who rejects, evades or obstructs the performance of duties of the competent authorities shall be liable to a fine exceeding 10 yen but not exceeding 100 yen. But this shall be dealt with according to the provisions of the Criminal Code in cases where there are the appropriate provisions in the said Code.

ARTICLE 63.

In case a tobacco grower, tobacco experimental grower, tobacco seller, or manufacturer, seller or keeper of apparatus for tobacco making and tobacco paper is a minor or an incompetent person, the penal provisions applicable to such person in accordance with the provisions of this Law or orders issued under this Law shall apply to his legal

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-

representative, except when a minor has a capacity in the business management similar to that of an adult.

ARTICLE 64.
No examples such as commutation, aggravation for the second offence or concurrence of several crimes as provided for in the criminal code shall be quoted to a person who contravenes the present Law or orders issued thereunder.

ARTICLE 65.
Any tobacco grower, tobacco experimental grower, tobacco seller, or manufacturer, seller or keeper of apparatus for tobacco making and tobacco paper, and tobacco exporter shall not be exempted from punishment for any act committed beyond his control by his agent, master of the house, member of the family, lodger, a ployee or any other person in his pay.

ARTICLE 66.
The provisions of Law No. 52 of 1900 shall apply mutatis mutandis to any offence against the present Law or orders issued thereunder.

ARTICLE 67.
The provisions of the Law concerning the treatment of offenders against the indirect national taxation shall apply mutatis mutandis to any case in contravention of this Law and orders issued thereunder. However, the provisions in respect of the officials performing their duties under the present Law shall be fixed by Imperial Ordinance.

SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS.

ARTICLE 68.
The present Law shall be enforced as from July 1st, 1904. But the provisions of the second paragraph of ARTICLE 22 and ARTICLE 73 shall be enforced as from the day of promulgation of this Law.

A person who manufactures tobacco at the time of enforcement of this Law may be permitted to continue his business till March 31st, 1905, provided that the manufacturing of tobacco should be confined to cut tobacco.

This Law shall not apply till March 31st, 1905, to the manufacture of cut tobacco and also to the sale and purchase of leaf tobacco to be supplied as material for the manufacture of cut tobacco. The Leaf Tobacco Monopoly Law shall, accordingly, apply to such manufacture, sale and purchase.

ARTICLE 69.
A leaf tobacco grower at the time of enforcement of the present Law shall be regarded as a tobacco grower under the present Law.

ARTICLE 70.
The Government shall collect the following objects and grant an indemnity therefor:-
- (1) -

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-

(1) Apparatus for tobacco making and tobacco paper existing on June 30, 1904, but excluding apparatus for exclusive use in the manufacture of cut tobacco.

(2) Apparatus for exclusive use in the manufacture of cut tobacco which exist on March 31, 1905.

(3) Leaf tobacco existing on March 31, 1905.

ARTICLE 71.

Concerning leaf tobacco for export which is held by the Government at the time of enforcement of the present Law, the leaf Tobacco Monopoly Law shall still apply thereto, even after the enforcement of this Law.

ARTICLE 72.

Leaf tobacco under ownership of a manufacturer of tobacco other than cut tobacco which exists on June 30, 1904, shall be transferred to the cut tobacco manufacturer or leaf tobacco dealer by March 31, 1905. However, such owner may be permitted to request the Government for purchase of leaf tobacco of foreign origin by July 20, 1904.

ARTICLE 73.

The Government may collect buildings manufacturing tobacco, their ground and apparatus for tobacco making equipped in such manufactories. In such a case, the Government shall grant an indemnity therefor.

After promulgation of the present Law, the Government may, for each place of business of the tobacco manufacturer, survey objects to be collected in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph and prepare a list of collection.

The list of collection shall be notified to the relevant owner within sixty days from the day of promulgation of the present Law.

Except with the permission of the Government, no owner shall, after receipt of the foregoing notification, be permitted to dispose of the objects specified in the list of collection.

ARTICLE 74.

Any objects to be used in tobacco manufacturing and apparatus for tobacco making now in use which are held by a tobacco manufacturer and which are not referred to in ARTICLE 70 may be demanded for purchase by the Government. However, such objects and apparatus must be confined to those existing on June 30, 1904, in the case of articles belonging to the tobacco manufacturer other than the cut tobacco manufacturer and those existing on March 31, 1905, in the case of articles belonging to the cut tobacco manufacturer.

The kind and quantity of objects and also the kind of apparatus referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be fixed by Ordinance.

ARTICLE 75.

The Government shall, on application, grant a tobacco
-manufacturer -

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-

manufacturer compensation corresponding to 20 per cent of his proceeds of tobacco and, for a person whose grant of compensation does not amount to 500 yen, shall grant a sum of 500 yen. However, the Government shall grant an additional compensation corresponding to one-sixth of the foregoing grant of compensation for a person who holds a building manufacturing tobacco and its ground but whose building and ground have neither been collected nor purchased wholly by the Government.

The Government shall, on application, grant a leaf tobacco dealer or an exclusive dealer in tobacco which is manufactured abroad, or at home with material of foreign origin, and which has its trade mark, a compensation corresponding to 10 per cent of his proceeds of tobacco and, for a person whose grant of compensation does not amount to 250 yen, shall grant a sum of 250 yen. However, an amount of leaf tobacco supplied by a leaf tobacco dealer who is as well a tobacco manufacturer for his own tobacco manufacturing shall not be computed in the proceeds of tobacco referred to in the present paragraph.

The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not apply to a tobacco manufacturer who has been designated by the Government as a tobacco wholesaler.

The grant of compensation under the first paragraph shall not exceed 9,100,000 yen. If there occurs an excess over the limit, such excess shall be divided equally for deduction from the payment of compensation.

The grant of compensation under the second paragraph shall not exceed 2,000,000 yen. If there occurs an excess over the limit, such excess shall be divided equally for deduction from the payment of compensation.

The proceeds referred to in the first and second paragraphs shall be fixed on the basis of an average of the proceeds for two years from 1902 to 1903 and, for a person who opened his business after the month of February, 1902, on the basis of the proceeds for 1903.

A "Tobacco manufacturer" as referred to in the first paragraph shall, for a tobacco manufacturer other than a cut tobacco manufacturer, denote only such a tobacco manufacturer who has continued his business without interruption since before June 31, 1903 till June 30, 1904 and, for a cut tobacco manufacturer, denote only such a cut tobacco manufacturer who has continued his business without interruption since before January 31, 1903 till March 31, 1905. But, in case an heir succeeds to the business of manufacturing operated by his predecessor, the time of operation of the business by the predecessor shall be regarded as the time of operation of the business by the heir.

The clause "leaf tobacco dealer or an exclusive dealer in tobacco which is manufactured abroad or at home with material of foreign origin and which has its trade mark as referred to in the second paragraph" shall denote only such a person who has continued his business without interruption since before January 31, 1903 till March 31, 1905. But in case an heir succeeds to the business of dealing in leaf tobacco or the business of exclusive dealing in tobacco which is manufactured abroad or at home with material of

- foreign -

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-

foreign origin and which has its trade mark, operated by
his predecessor, the time of operation of the business by
the predecessor shall be regarded as the time of operation
of the business by the heir.

ARTICLE 76.

The Government shall fix the proceeds referred to in
ARTICLE 75, paragraphs 1 and 2, by books and documents which
are approved by the Government as trustworthy.

ARTICLE 77.

The indemnity referred to in ARTICLE 70 and ARTICLE
73, and the purchasing price referred to in ARTICLE 72
and ARTICLE 74 shall be determined by conference. If the
conference fails, the Government shall decide on the advice
of the assessor.

Any person who is not satisfied with the determination
referred to in the preceding paragraph may enter a protest
within ten days. In such a case, the Government shall
secure further advice from the assessor and then decide.

The provisions in respect of the assessor shall be fixed
by Ordinance.

ARTICLE 78.

A person who holds the objects referred to in No. 1 of
ARTICLE 70 and a person who holds the objects referred to
in No. 2 of the same ARTICLE shall declare to the Government
by July 5, 1904 and by April 5, 1905, respectively, the kind
and quantity of the objects concerned. If he fails to make
the declaration by the specified periods, objects in his
possession shall be dealt with according to the provisions
of ARTICLE 36 and ARTICLE 60.

ARTICLE 79.

A person who holds the objects referred to in No. 3 of
ARTICLE 70 shall declare to the Government by April 5, 1905,
the kind and quantity of the objects concerned. If he
fails to make the declaration by the specified period, the
objects in his possession shall be dealt according to the
provisions of ARTICLE 56.

ARTICLE 80.

An application for purchase of objects under ARTICLE
74 shall be made by July 5, 1905 in the case of a manu-
facturer of tobacco other than cut tobacco and by April 5,
1905 in the case of a cut tobacco manufacturer.

ARTICLE 81.

An application for grant of compensation referred to in
ARTICLE 75 shall be made by September 30, 1904 in the case
of a manufacturer of tobacco other than cut tobacco; by
June 30, 1905 in the case of a cut tobacco manufacturer;
and by December 31, 1907 in the case of a leaf tobacco
dealer or an exclusive dealer in tobacco which is manu-
factured abroad or at home with material of foreign origin
and which has its trade mark.

- ARTICLE 82 -

=== Page 21 === (confidence 1.00)
-15-

## ARTICLE 82.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the present Law, manufactured tobacco existing at the time of enforcement of the present Law or cut tobacco manufactured by March 31, 1905 by the cut tobacco manufacturer is permitted to be held, transferred or received.

If deemed necessary, the Government may, as prescribed by Ordinance, issue an order in connection with the packing of manufactured tobacco referred to in the preceding paragraph and the sealing thereof with a certain certificate.

The provisions of ARTICLE 34 and ARTICLE 57 shall apply mutatis mutandis to manufactured tobacco which, in contravention of an order under the preceding paragraph, is neither packed nor sealed with the certificate.

## ARTICLE 83.
A tobacco manufacturer or a person selling manufactured tobacco shall declare to the Government by July 10, 1904, the kind and quantity of manufactured tobacco other than cut tobacco in his possession on June 30, 1904.

A cut tobacco manufacturer shall declare to the Government by the 10th of the month following the kind and quantity of cut tobacco in his possession on March 31, 1905.

## ARTICLE 84.
A person who sells manufactured tobacco which is not sold by the Government after enforcement of the present Law shall keep books concerning his business and declare to the Government by the 5th of the month following the kind and quantity of such manufactured tobacco in stock at the end of each month after the month of July, 1904, together with the amount of sales for the month concerned.

## ARTICLE 85.
Any person who contravenes the provisions of ARTICLES 83 and 84 shall be liable to a fine exceeding 2 yen but not exceeding 20 yen.

## ARTICLE 86.
Any person who contravenes the provisions of the Leaf Tobacco Monopoly Law shall be governed by the same Law even after enforcement of the present Law.

## ARTICLE 87.
The present Law shall not apply to such islands as may be specified by Imperial Ordinance.

An importation or exportation of tobacco between a locality in which the present Law is in force and a locality in which the present Law is not in force shall be fixed separately by Ordinance.

No person except the Government shall be permitted to import tobacco from a locality in which the present Law is not in force into a locality in which the present Law is in force. Any person who violates this shall be liable to a fine exceeding 10 yen but not exceeding 1000 yen, and the

- relevant -

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-

relevant tobacco shall be confiscated.

## ARTICLE 88.

Any license fee imposed on a tobacco manufacturer or on a leaf tobacco dealer shall not be collected for the year 1905.

Any license fee imposed during 1904 on a manufacturer of tobacco other than cut tobacco shall be refunded at the rate of six-twelfths.

## ARTICLE 39.

The Government may be permitted to issue state treasury notes in order to raise funds for indemnification referred to ARTICLE 70 and ARTICLE 73, for purchase referred to in ARTICLE 72 and ARTICLE 74, and for compensation referred to in ARTICLE 75.

The grant of compensations under ARTICLE 75 shall be made by state treasury notes; provided, however, that any fractions below 50 yen may be paid by cash.

The indemnities under ARTICLE 70 and ARTICLE 73, and the purchase moneys under ARTICLE 72 and ARTICLE 74 may, on application by the persons concerned, be paid by state treasury notes.

State treasury notes shall bear interest at the rate of five per cent per annum and shall be redeemed within seven years from the year of its issue. But state treasury notes to be granted in accordance with the provisions of the second paragraph of ARTICLE 75 shall be redeemed within ten years from the year of issue.

Unless otherwise provided for in the present Law, the provisions concerning Government bonds for adjustment shall apply mutatis mutandis to the state treasury note.

## SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS.

The present Law (No. 16 of March, 1921) shall apply to any loss caused on and after April 1, 1921.

## SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS.

The present Law (No. 23 of March, 1925) shall apply to any loss sustained on and after April 1, 1925.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-

# REGULATIONS UNDER THE TOBACCO MONOPOLY LAW.

Finance Department Ordinance No. 19, promulgated on May 23, 1904: as amended by:

- Ordinance No. 44 of December, 1904
- Ordinance No. 19 of May, 1907
- Ordinance No. 37 of August, 1908
- Ordinance No. 45 of July, 1909
- Ordinance No. 32 of June, 1910
- Ordinance No. 43 of September, 1910
- Ordinance No. 41 of November, 1921
- Ordinance No. 49 of July, 1922
- Ordinance No. 9 of March, 1923

## ARTICLE 1.

A person who desires to cultivate tobacco shall submit to the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned within a period fixed by the Superintendent of such Bureau, an application as per Form No. 1 and obtain its permission.

A person who has obtained the permission for cultivation under the preceding paragraph shall be granted a permit as per Form No. 2.

## ARTICLE 2.

The Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau shall grant permission for cultivation of tobacco according to the following order:

1. A person who is regarded as a typical person in cultivation, curing, treatment, packing, grading, etc., of tobacco during the previous year.
2. A person who had continued his cultivation of tobacco until the preceding year.
3. A person who files a new application for permission for cultivation of tobacco in the year concerned.

## ARTICLE 3.

In case the Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau considers that the area for tillage under application for permission for cultivation is too excessive for the applicant's capacity and his equipment for cultivation, he may grant permission by reducing such area.

## ARTICLE 4.

Any person who comes under any one of the following heads shall not be permitted to be a tobacco grower:

1. A tobacco seller.
2. A manufacturer, seller or keeper of apparatus for tobacco making or of tobacco paper.
3. A person exporting tobacco.
4. A person (including a letter) living in the house of the persons referred to in the preceding numbers.

- ARTICLE -

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-

## ARTICLE 5.
The Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau may not grant permission for cultivation of tobacco to any person falling under any one of the following heads:-

(1) A person who has acted in contravention of the laws and regulations concerning tobacco.

(2) A person whose results in the cultivation of tobacco have proved unsatisfactory.

(3) A person who intends to cultivate tobacco at such a tillage as is considered unsuitable.

(4) A person who intends to cultivate, cure or store tobacco at such a place as is considered inconvenient for control.

(5) A person who intends to cultivate tobacco at a tillage which does not exceed 5 "se" (5 "se" equals approximately one-eighth of an acre)

(6) A person who is considered unsatisfactory as a tobacco grower.

## ARTICLE 6.
In case a tobacco grower desires to change, increase or decrease the place of seedlings and its space, the place of cultivation of tobacco and its area of tillage, the kind and quantity of tobacco, the place of curing and the place of storing or discontinue the cultivation of tobacco, he shall submit to the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned an application as per Form No. 1 and obtain permission.

## ARTICLE 7.
A person who, other than by inheritance, desires to succeed to the cultivation of tobacco shall submit to the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned a permit for cultivation together with an application as per Form No. 3 and obtain permission.

A person who succeeds by inheritance to the cultivation of tobacco shall submit to the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned the permit for cultivation together with a declaration as per Form No. 4 and obtain a renewed permit for cultivation.

## ARTICLE 8.
In case a tobacco grower has obtained permission for reduction of his area of tillage of tobacco or for discontinuation of the cultivation of tobacco, he shall, on approval of the competent authorities, make necessary disposals of tobacco and tobacco seedlings in his possession at such time. The same shall apply also to the cancellation of permission for cultivation of tobacco according to the provisions of ARTICLE 37 of the Tobacco Monopoly Law.

## ARTICLE 9.
In case a tobacco grower desires to deliver or receive tobacco seedlings he shall submit to the Local Monopoly Bureau -

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
-19-

Bureau concerned an application as per Form No. 5 and obtain permission.

ARTICLE 10.
If a tobacco grower loses his permit, he shall file immediately with the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned an application for re-issuance of permit together with an explanatory note.

ARTICLE 11.
The following matters shall be subject to the instructions of the Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau:
(1) The crop of seed.
(2) The equipment of seed beds and control thereof.
(3) The time of sowing.
(4) The time of transplantation.
(5) The distance between one tillage pass and another, and also the distance between one plant and another.
(6) The pruning of side shoots.
(7) The pruning of top shoots.
(8) Other methods with regard to cultivation.
(9) The selection of leaves.
(10) The method of curing.
(11) The method of smoothing out of leaves.
(12) The number of leaves per bundle.
(13) The number of bundles per package or weight thereof.
(14) Materials to be used for packing.
(15) The method of packing.

ARTICLE 12.
Any tobacco seedlings remaining after transplanting of tobacco shall immediately be abandoned. However, certain numbers of seedlings may be preserved as reserves for three weeks from the time of transplantation.

ARTICLE 13.
A tobacco grower shall place in every tillage of tobacco a sign board containing his name and address and also the number of his permit.

ARTICLE 14.
When an assessment of the quantity of leaf tobacco or in about to take place according to the provisions of ARTICLE 11 of the Tobacco Monopoly Act, the Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau shall make tobacco growers and their

- 19-

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-

tillages of tobacco to be assessed and the date of assessment, and shall previously give public notice.

In case there is any tobacco grower who may be omitted from assessment, the Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau shall give notice to do so.

ARTICLE 15.

In case a tobacco grower intends to enter protest against the quantity which has been assessed by the competent authorities, he shall immediately enter a summary of his protest in the Protest Book and sign his name.

ARTICLE 16.

The Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau shall appoint at least one-half of the assessors to be appointed in accordance with the provisions of the second paragraph of ARTICLE 12 of the Tobacco Monopoly Law from outside of the officials of the Monopoly Bureau.

ARTICLE 17.

In case the Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau has arrived at a conclusion as prescribed by the second paragraph of ARTICLE 12 of the Tobacco Monopoly Law, he shall give a written decision as per Form No. 6 to the protester.

ARTICLE 18.

In case a tobacco grower has suffered from damages to tobacco in his cultivation by disasters or other accidents, he shall report the same to the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned.

ARTICLE 19.

If there are withered leaves, unripened leaves, worm eaten leaves, dead plants, etc., a tobacco grower shall report the same to the competent authorities and make necessary disposals thereof under direction of the said authorities.

ARTICLE 20.

In case a tobacco grower desires to preserve mother plants in order to collect seeds, he shall fix the kind and number of such plants and obtain previously the permission of the Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau.

ARTICLE 21.

Leaf tobacco shall be classified and treated according to its kind, curing method, assortment, quality and form.

ARTICLE 22.

The assortment of leaves under the preceding ARTICLE shall be made as follows:-

(1) Cotton leaves.
(2) Middle leaves.
(3) Main leaves.
(4) Top leaves.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Any leaves difficult to grade in accordance with the above shall be classified as miscellaneous leaves.

## ARTICLE 23.

Any waste which is produced at the time of treatment by curing and which is not suitable for delivery to the Government shall be abandoned on approval of the competent authorities.

## ARTICLE 24.

The place and date of delivery of leaf tobacco shall be fixed by the Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau and published in advance.

## ARTICLE 25.

When a tobacco grower conveys leaf tobacco for the purpose of delivery to the Government, he shall carry with him his permit for cultivation of tobacco.

The permit referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be presented to the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned at the time of delivery to the Government and get therein entries of the quantity of delivery, amount of compensation, etc.

## ARTICLE 26.

Any leaf tobacco which is to be delivered to the Government by the tobacco grower and which is not perfect in its treatment by curing may be returned by the competent authorities to the tobacco grower concerned to give further treatment.

## ARTICLE 27.

In case a tobacco grower desires to apply for a re-assessment in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE 16 of the Tobacco Monopoly Law, he shall prepare a report outlining his dissent as per Form No. 7 and submit it to the Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau before he applies for compensation.

## ARTICLE 28.

In case a re-assessment is filed in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE 27, the Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau shall appoint more than two assessors, obtain their views, decide on the matter concerned, and deliver to the protester a written decision as per Form No. 8.

One half or more of the assessors referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be appointed from outside the officials of the Monopoly Bureau.

## ARTICLE 29.

If deemed necessary for control, the Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau may specify the route and time of conveyance of leaf tobacco to the tobacco grower.

## ARTICLE 30.

In case a public institution or a private person desires to establish an experimental farm and conduct experimental cultivation of tobacco, he shall file with the Superintendent of the Local Monopoly Bureau an application for permission

- 68 -

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-

as per Form No. 1.

A permit as per Form No. 2 shall be granted to a person who has obtained the permission for experimental cultivation of tobacco.

ARTICLE 31.

A person who makes application for a sale of leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco for the object of export abroad shall submit to the Director-General of the Monopoly Bureau an application for sale of tobacco for export as per Form No. 9, pay prices to the office of the tobacco monopoly which may be specified by the competent authorities, and receive the goods. In case he does not take delivery of the goods within ten days, he shall be liable to pay a certain amount for storage.

A person who buys leaf tobacco for the object of export exceeding 3000 yen in value at one time or manufactured tobacco exceeding 2000 yen in value at one time may be permitted to make application for an extension of payment by offering a state bond as security for payment.

In case a person who buys leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco for the object of export previously deposits a state bond as security for payment, he may be permitted to make application for an extension of payment within the limits of the value of the state bond deposited. But the payment for purchase of tobacco each time shall not be lower than the amounts specified in the preceding paragraph.

With regard to the security to be offered for payment for leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco, a person who offers an unregistered state bond shall deposit it with the Government and submit the receipt to the Monopoly Bureau and a person who offers a registered state bond shall get the registration of the security of such bond and submit the registration notice to the Bureau.

The prices for purchase of tobacco referred to in the second and their paragraphs shall be fully paid within six months from the date of receipt of the goods.

In case a person who has bought leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco for the object of export does not make payment within the specified time of payment, he may be liable to pay interest at the rate of 5 per cent per annum.

In case a person who has bought tobacco for the object of export desires to change the place of storing of such tobacco, he shall report the same to the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned and obtain its permission.

ARTICLE 32.

A person who has bought leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco for the object of export shall, after completion of export, submit to the Monopoly Bureau, within a period specified by the Director-General of the Bureau, an export permit accompanied by documentary evidence of landing at the place of destination abroad.

- ARTICLE -

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-

## ARTICLE 33.
A person who has bought leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco for the object of export shall keep books and enter therein the following particulars:-

(1) Date of purchase, date of disposal (export, transfer, or abandonment), packing number, kind, as of moment, quantity, value and destination of leaf tobacco.

(2) Date of re-packing, original packing number, original quantity, re-packing number and re-packed quantity of leaf tobacco.

(3) Date of purchase, date of disposal (export, transfer, or abandonment), kind, name, quantity (number or weight), value and destination of manufactured tobacco.

## ARTICLE 34.
In case leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco which have been purchased for export becomes so unsuitable as to be abandoned, such matter shall be reported to the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned for its removal (of the abandonment of such tobacco).

## ARTICLE 34-(2).
In case leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco which has been purchased for export is diminished or lost by theft, fire, etc., before landing at the destination, such matter shall be reported immediately to the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned.

## ARTICLE 35.
A person who desires to obtain leaf tobacco for the object of specimen shall file with the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned an application as per Form No. 10.

## ARTICLE 36.
A person who desires to import leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco for the purpose of specimen shall file with the Monopoly Bureau an application as per Form No. 11 and obtain its permission.

## ARTICLE 37.
In case a person who desires to transfer as specimens the tobacco referred to in ARTICLES 35 and 36, he shall file with the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned an application as per Form No. 12 and obtain its permission.

## ARTICLE 38.
A person who, in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE 32 of the Tobacco Monopoly Law, desires to import manufactured tobacco shall file with the Monopoly Bureau an application as per Form No. 13 and obtain its permission.

## ARTICLE 39.
When a person desires to purchase leaf tobacco or
-manufactured -

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-

manufactured tobacco from the Government for the object of exporting to Japanese colonies in which the Tobacco Monopoly Law is not in force, the Director-General of the Monopoly Bureau may effect such sale at special prices.

ARTICLE 40.

The provisions of ARTICLE 31 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the export to Japanese colonies.

ARTICLE 40-(2).

Leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco which has been purchased for export to Japanese colonies shall, prior to its shipment, be neither transferred to any other person nor consumed. But such tobacco as has become unsuitable for use may, on approval of the Government, be abandoned.

Any person who contravenes the provisions of the preceding paragraph shall be liable to a fine exceeding 30 yen but not exceeding 100 yen.

ARTICLE 40-(3).

When the exportation of leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco bought for the object of export to Japanese colonies is discontinued or when the exportation of such tobacco is not made within one year from the date of purchase, the Government shall collect such tobacco as may be fit for use and abandon other tobacco.

In the case of collection under the preceding paragraph, the competent authorities shall order as essors to assess the value and grant compensations. But the compensation shall not exceed the value of sale effected under ARTICLE 39.

ARTICLE 40-(4).

Leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco which has been purchased for export to Japanese colonies shall not be stored in any place other than that permitted by the Government.

Any person who contravenes the provisions of the preceding paragraph shall be liable to a fine exceeding 5 yen but not exceeding 100 yen; the same shall also apply to any person who, knowing the circumstances, furnishes the place of storage.

ARTICLE 41.

A person who has bought leaf tobacco or manufactured tobacco for the object of export to Japanese colonies shall, after his purchase, submit to the Tobacco Monopoly Office from which he has made such purchase an export permit accompanied by documentary evidence of landing at the destination within a period specified by the Director-General of the Monopoly Bureau.

In case the quantity landed at the destination is, without good reason, less than that purchased for export,

- the -

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-

the exporter shall pay to the Tobacco Monopoly Office where he has bought the tobacco a sum not exceeding the equivalent of four times the price of sale under ARTICLE 39 in regard to the leaf tobacco and a sum not exceeding the equivalent of twice the difference between the fixed price and the special price under ARTICLE 39 in regard to the manufactured tobacco.

ARTICLE 42.

In accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE 33, an exporter to Japanese colonies shall keep books and make entries therein.

In case an exporter to Japanese colonies keeps no books, neglects to make entries or makes dishonest entries, he shall be liable to a fine exceeding 10 yen but not exceeding 100 yen.

ARTICLE 42-(2).

The provisions of ARTICLES 34 and 34-(2) shall apply mutatis mutandis in the case of exports to Japanese colonies.

ARTICLE 43.

A person who desires to manufacture, sell or keep apparatus for tobacco making or tobacco paper shall file with the Local Monopoly Bureau an application as per Form No. 14 or 15 and obtain its permission.

In case a person who has obtained the permission referred to in the preceding paragraph desires to discontinue his business, he shall report the same to the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned.

ARTICLE 44.

A manufacturer or seller of apparatus for tobacco making or of tobacco paper shall keep books and enter therein the kind, quantity, value, date of manufacture or date of purchase, name of seller, date of sale, name of buyer, etc., of such apparatus or of such tobacco paper.

ARTICLE 45.

A person who has been entrusted with the conveyance of tobacco, apparatus for tobacco making and tobacco paper shall be regarded as an agent for the shipper during transit.

SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS.

ARTICLE 46.

The present Ordinance shall be enforced as from the day of enforcement of the Tobacco Monopoly Law.

ARTICLE 47.

The Finance Department Ordinance No. 16 of 1897
- respecting -

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-

Respecting re-assessment of leaf tobacco and the Finance Department Ordinance No. 4 of 1901 respecting regulations under the Leaf Tobacco Monopoly Law shall be repealed from the day of enforcement of the present Ordinance. But the former regulations under the Leaf Tobacco Monopoly Law shall still apply according to the supplementary provisions of ARTICLE 68, paragraph 2, to a person manufacturing cut tobacco and also to a person dealing in leaf tobacco.

ARTICLE 48.

The declaration to be submitted in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE 83 of the Tobacco Monopoly Law shall, in conformity with Form No. 16, be filed with the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned.

ARTICLE 49.

The provisions of ARTICLE 33 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the keeping of books under ARTICLE 84 of the Tobacco Monopoly Law.

The kind and quantity of stocks of manufactured tobacco at the end of each month after the month of July, 1904 and the amount of sales thereof during the month concerned shall, in conformity with Form No. 17, be reported to the Local Monopoly Bureau concerned by the 5th of the month following.
