894.6363 Mines. Mining. Concessions., Carbon. Graphite., Japan, Petroleum., September 22, 1932 - January 3rd, 1935 (File 842), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.6363-842-2   Pages: 495   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.6363-mines-mining-concessions-4/894.6363%20Mines.%20Mining.%20Concessions.%2C%20Carbon.%20Graphite.%2C%20Japan%2C%20Petroleum.%2C%20September%2022%2C%201932%20-%20January%203rd%2C%201935%20842-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
requesting that the representative immediately telephone
Sir Henri and state to him that the American Government
had, in response to an inquiry from the British Government,
expressed readiness to give consideration to proposals
which the British and Netherland Governments may care to
offer; and that this Government is at present looking
to the British Government to send to us a further
communication.
Mr. Teagle said that he would call on me as soon as
Sir Henri's representative in New York had informed him
(Mr. Teagle) of the nature of the representative's con-
versation with Sir Henri; and that he hoped to see me
again either this afternoon or tomorrow morning.
I then referred to the information received from
Tokyo to the effect that the agreement entered into between
Standard-Vacuum and the Asiatic Petroloum (subsidiary of
the Royal Dutch-Shell interests) to refrain from presenting
bids for the supply of oil to "Manchukuo" had been
impaired, due to the fact that the Standard Oil of
California and other American concerns were preparing
to submit bids. Mr. Teagle replied that while that was
true, the American companies concerned had finally agreed
to postpone for the time being the submitting of bids,
but he did not know how long the present arrangement would
last. I asked Mr. Teagle if it would not be possible for
Ame rican

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
-5 -
American oil concerns to agree among themselves to
refrain from supplying oil to the Japanese. Mr. Teagle
said that no arrangement of that character could be
made. He stated that the Associated oil group in
California has a 50 per cent interest in an oil refinery
in Japan and is under a long-term contract to supply
crude oil to the refinery; that he understood that the
Associated had been called upon by its Japanese associates
to subscribe its share of the cost of providing the
installations required under the new Japanese law and
that the Associated is planning to supply its share of
the cost, although he (Mr. Teagle) had suggested to the
Associated that it should out of regard for its own
interests postpone making a decision until the situation
becomes more clear. Mr. Teagle believed that the only
practicable method of concluding an arrangement of the
character suggested would be to take action through the
P. & C. Committee (Planning and Co-ordination Committee,
Petroleum Board, Department of the Interior).
I requested that Mr. Teagle regard as strictly con-
fidential the information which I would proceed to give
him. I stated that there is being drafted a tentative
text for representations which might be made to the
Japanese Government in the event that decision is made
to take such action. I stated that it is our understanding
that

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
- 6 -
that the foreign companies concerned had pointed out to
the Japanese Government in detail the difficulties and
adverse effects which the Japanese law would impose upon
them; and I ventured the thought that, therefore, repre-
sentations which this Government might make, if and when,
should be confined to essentials. Mr. Teagle expressed
concurrence.
In taking his leave, Mr. Teagle repeated that he
would again call on me as soon as he had heard from
Sir Henri Deterding.
FE:SKH:EHD/ZMK/DLY
m.m√

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
SEPTMBER 4, 1954
SEEBATIC LONDON
FILED 8 04 AM
TO RICHARD ADREY
NEW YORK 8572
YOURS S1ST ULT A
NETHRRLANDS GOVERNMENT TELEGRAPHED TODAY TO NETHERLANDS
MINISTER WASHINGTON REFERRING TO JAPAN PETROLEUM LAW AND
IT
STATE THAT (THEY) WILL SERIOUSLY INJURE DUTCH INTEREST AND
THAT THEY WERE PREPARED TO PROTEST TO JAPAN BUT ASK UNITED
STATES GOVERNENT WHOSE INTERESTS WILL BE MORE SERIOUSLY
AFFECTED BY JAPANESE THEIR ATTITUDE TOWARDS SDMULTANEOUS
PROTEST (FULLSTOP)
NETHERLANDS GOVERNMENT HAVE ALSO TELEGRAPHED DUTCH TRADE
DELEGATION BATAVIA STATING PRESENT ALLOCATION OF QUOTAS
DISGRIMINATORY AND DEFINITELY AGAINST INTERESTS OF DUTCH
NATIONALS AND THAT DELEGATION MUST INSIST UPON CORRECTION OF
THESE QUOTAS (FULLSTOP)
WE UNDERSTAND BRITISH GOVERNMENT ALREADY OFFICIALLY PROTESTED
TO JAPANESE GOVERNMENT (FULLSTOP)
BRITISH GOVERNMENT RECEIVED NOT UNSATISFACTORY REPLY FROM
WASHINGTON ALTHOUGH WASHINGTON NOT YET DEFINITELY AGREED TO
PROTEST (FULLSTOP)
YOU UNDERSTAND FOREGOING STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL AND SHOULD BE
USED DISCREETLY

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
wea
COPY OF MESSAGE RECEIVED
SEPTEMBER 4, 1934
FROM ASDEBATIC LONDON
FILED 8 04 AM
TO RICHARD AIREY
NEW YORK 8372
C
YOURS 31ST ULT A
NETHERLANDS GOVERNMENT TELEGRAPHED TODAY TO NETHERLANDS
MINISTER WASHINGTON REFERRING TO JAPAN PETROLEUM LAW AND
IT
STATE THAT (THEY) WILL SERIOUSLY INJURE DUTCH INTEREST AND
THAT THEY WERE PREPARED TO PROTEST TO JAPAN BUT ASK UNITED
STATES GOVERNMENT WHOSE INTERESTS WILL BE MORE SERIOUSLY
AFFECTED BY JAPANESE THEIR ATTITUDE TOWARDS SIMULTANEOUS
PROTEST (FULLSTOP)
NETHERLANDS GOVERNMENT HAVE ALSO TELEGRAPHED DUTCH TRADE
DELEGATION BATAVIA STATING PRESENT ALLOCATION OF QUOTAS
DISCRIMINATORY AND DEFINITELY AGAINST INTERESTS OF DUTCH
NATIONALS AND THAT DELEGATION MUST INSIST UPON CORRECTION OF
THESE QUOTAS (FULLSTOP)
WE UNDERSTAND BRITISH GOVERNMENT ALREADY OFFICIALLY PROTESTED
TO JAPANESE GOVERNMENT (FULLSTOP)
BRITISH GOVERNMENT RECEIVED NOT UNSATISFACTORY REPLY FROM
WASHINGTON ALTHOUGH WASHINGTON NOT YET DEFINITELY AGREED TO
PROTEST (FULLSTOP)
YOU UNDERSTAND FOREGOING STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL AND SHOULD BE
USED DISCREETLY

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
GOPY OF MESSAGE RECEIVED
SEPTEMBER 4, 1934
FROM ASDEBATIC LONDON
FILED 8 04 AM
TO RICHARD AIREY
NEW TORK 8372
6
YOURS SIST ULT A
NETHERLANDS GOVERNENT TELEGRAPHED TODAY TO NETHERLANDS
MINISTER WASHINGTON REFERRING TO JAPAN PETROLEUM LAW AND
IT
STATE THAT (THEY) WILL SERIOUSLY INJURE DUTCH INTEREST AND
THAT THEY WERE PREPARED TO PROTEST TO JAPAN BUT ASK UNITED
STATES GOVERNMENT WHOSE INTERESTS WILL BE MORE SERIOUSLY
AFFECTED BY JAPANESE THEIR ATTITUDE TOWARDS SDMULTANEOUS
FROTEST (FULLSTOP)
NEPHERLANDS GOVERNMENT HAVE ALSO TELEGRAPHED DUTCH TRADE
DELEGATION BATAVIA STATING PRESENT ALLOCATION OF QUOTAS
DISCRIMINATORY AND DEFINITELY AGAINST INTERESTS OF DUTCH
NATIONALS AND THAT DELEGATION MUST INSIST UPON CORRECTION OF
THESE QUOTAS (FULLSTOP)
WE UNDERSTAND BRITISH GOVERNMENT ALREADY OFFICIALLY PROTESTED
TO JAPANESE GOVERNMENT (FULLSTOP)
BRITISH GOVERNMENT RECEIVED NOT UNSATISFACTORY REPLY FROM
WASHINGTON ALTHOUGH WASHINGTON NOT YET DEFINITELY AGREED TO
PROTEST (FULLSTOP)
YOU UNDERSTAND FOREGOING STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL AND SHOULD BE
USED DISCREETLY

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
S
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Conversation.
September 14, 1934.
MUNICATIONS
Mr. Walter C. Teagle,
president, Standard Oil
Livision of
fars
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE UNDFHRETAH
Company or New Jersey.
SEP 18 1934
1193
Mr. Hornbeok.
Department of State
ULANI DSIA
Related Developments and Problems.
894.6363/92
Mr. Teagle called me on the telephone from New York.
He said that, since his conversation with me on Septem-
ber 13, Sir Henri Deterding's representative in New York
had talked twice by telephone with representatives of his
company in London. On the basis of what they said, it
appears that the matter under consideration is in a
situation of "stalemate": it seems that the American
Government is waiting on the British Government for aotion
and the British Government waiting on the American Govern-
ment.
I replied that I did not understand how the British
Government could be waiting on us for aotion: they had
FILED
approached us asking us with regard to our attitude; we
had replied that we felt that the situation was a serious
situation, warranting action, and that we would be ready to
give sympathetio consideration to suggestions whioh they
might make for action. Since that exchange of communications,
which
F/G

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
-2 -
which was on their initiative, they had given us no further
word or indication of their thought or intent. Mr. Teagle
said that they seemed to be waiting on us. I referred to
a previous statement which he had given me wherein his
informant in London had stated that the British Foreign
Orfice had stated that it had "already protested"; I
reminded him that I had suggested at the time that there
must be some confusion with regard to that point; and I
said that it would perhaps be helpful to have a date or
approximate date on whioh the British Government "had
protested". I said that they had not given us any informa-
tion to that effect, nor had they indicated what might be
the nature of their action, if and when.
Mr. Teagle said that he would get in touch with his
London people again on that point.
FE:SKH/ZMK
K

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.96)
TATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FE
0CT1319
DIVISION OF
nversation.
September 20, 1934.
Copy to Takyo
Mr. Walter C. Teagle,
Divisi on of
1/19154
president, Standard Oil
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
30k
Company of New Jersey.
SEF 25 1934
894.6363
Mr. Hornbeck.
Gute
Sub jeot:
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
894.6363/93
Mr. Hornbeck called on Mr. Teagle by appointment at
l0:30 p.m. on the evening of September 18, at the Shoreham
Hotel. (NOTE: Mr. Teagle had just reached Washington and
Mr. Hornbeck was leaving Washington at midnight.)
Mr. Teagle said that Sir Henri Deterding's New York
representative had again talked with his London office and
that it now appeared that the various British authorities
concerned were conferring among themselves with regard to
possible courses of action: they had apparently not yet
FTED
arrived at definite conclusions, but something was expeote
within a few days.
Mr. Hornbeok said that this information tended to con-
firm an hypothesis whioh we had developed, namely, that,
after having asked us about our attitude and having received
our suggestion that we would sympathetioally consider sug-
gestions which they might offer for aotion, the British
F/G
Foreign Office had found itself at a loss to know what to
suggest.
There

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
There followed a disoussion of provisions in the Japa-
nese law and of expeotations with regard to their being applied
and of possible results. Mr. Hornbeck inquired whether it
might not be possible for the oil companies to go consider-
ably further than they had yet gone in their own discussions
of the matter with the Japanese authorities: might they not
intimate to the Japanese that it would be quite impossible
for them to meet the conditions implicit in the law and that,
if the Japanese insisted on their doing so, they would have
to cease doing business in Japan, and, if compelled to take
a loss upon their investments and to give up the prospects
there, they would feel warranted in making it difficult, as
far as lay within their power, for the Japanese to obtain
the supplies of crude oil, et cetera, which it was absolutely
necessary for them to procure abroad. Mr. Teagle did not
commit himself on that point but made some observations with
regard to difficulties and developments in the international
trade in petroleum and made some reference to the idea of
possible advantage to those countries which possess supplies
of oil were there to be imposed everywhere export duties on
orude oil.
Mr. Hornbeok said that we had been giving quite a little
time to the study of the question as now presented in conneo-
tion with Japan and that in course thereof he had discovered
that in France the foreign trade in petroleum had been sub-
jooted to onerous conditions. Mr. Teagle said that such was
the

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
the case and that we were likely to hear shortly that some-
thing of the same sort was occurring in Italy. He said
that in the case of France the oil interests themselves
had handled the matter very badly and he intimated that if
they had it to do over their course of action would be
different.
At that point Mr. Hornbeck inquired whether it might
not be possible for British, Dutch and American oil interests,
if they would effectively cooperate, to control the export
market to such an extent that they might be able to dictate
to governments of non-producing countries which impose
restrictions upon the trade which they consider too onerous.
There followed some discussion of the Latin American produo-
tion, Rumanian and Near Eastern production and Russian
production. Mr. Teagle said that France could get its
supplies from French production in Iraq and that Italy could
get some supplies from Rumania; but that Italy would be in
a diffioult position if the other producers refused to sell
to hor.
Mr. Hornbeck reverted to the proposition that the
oil interests probably could by a marimum of cooperation
among themselves do a good deal in self-defense. He referred
to the list of questions which the representative of Socony-
Vacuum had submitted to the Japanese Government and he in-
quired whether the Japanese Government had made replies.
Mr. Teagle

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
-4 -
Mr. Teagle said that they had done little more than acknowl-
odge receipt of the questions and that they had made no
satisfactory reply and that to a similar set of questions
which the Shell representative had addressed to them they
had given even less satisfaotory reply. He said that he
had copies of a whole sheaf of correspondence and that he
would like to acquaint us with the contents of the whole
of it. Mr. Hornbeck said that we would be very glad to
have anything which would contribute to our understanding
of the case and the problem which it presents. Mr. Teagle
said that he would be in Washington for several days and
would have this material prepared for us.
At this point it was arranged that Mr. Teagle should
call on Mr. Hornbeck at the Department on the morning of
September 20; and the conversation there ended.
4
FR:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
TMENT OF STATE
OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 21, 1934.
Mr. Teagle's memorandum attached
solow the memorandum immediately
hereunder gives an essentially com-
plote pioture of the facts and prob-
lom under disoussion, in connection
with which the drafts of telegrams to
Tokyo and London are now being sub-
mitted by K.
SKH
PE:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
Copy to Takyo
01 11419134
Divisien of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FE
Conversation.
September 21, 1934.
Mr. Walter C. Teagle, president,
Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey.
RECETVE
SHP ?: 934
CCT131
Mr. Chester O. Swain, of the
Standard Oil Company of New
LIVISION
NOTED
Jersey.
894.6363/94
Mr. Hornbeok.
894.6
Sub jeot:
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
Mr. Teagle called, bringing Mr. Swain, whom he intro-
duced as one of his associates.
Mr. Teagle asked whether we had any new information
with regard to the Japan matter. I said that we had
reason to believe that the representations by the Netherland
Government had been made in Tokyo; but that that was all
that we had. Mr. Teagle said that he had some new informa-
tion: Sir Henri Deterding's New York representative had
been informed from London that the British Foreign Office
had instructed the British Ambassador in Tokyo to confer
with his American and his Netherland colleagues with regard
to ways and means.
I stated that we were still working on possible formulas;
and I read a paragraph of our draft of telegram to Tokyo
(the
F/G

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
(the paragraph which summarizes the "conditions" which
would tend to make it impossible for American companies to
continue their business in Japan). Mr. Teagle and Mr. Swain
noddod approval. I said that they must realize that this
is purely tentative, that no decision had been arrived at
either as to our taking action or as to the substance of
what we would say, if and when.
Mr. Teagle handed me a memorandum, here attached,
entitled "Memo re Petroleum Industry Control Law - Japanese
Empire", which he said he had had prepared in pursuance of
statements which he had made to me on the evening/of Septem-
ber 18 (see memorandum of conversation of 3eptember 20, 1934).
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
5
MEMO RE PETROLEUM INDUSTRY
CONTROL LAW - JAPANESE EMPIRE
While we have endeavored to keep the State Department
fully advised of current developments in respect to the Petroleum
Industry Control Law, and while we also believe that the
American Embassy at Tokyo has taken similar steps, nevertheless,
we think it now advisable to briefly sumnarize the situation from
the time of promulgation of this law to the present date.
The Petroleum Industry Control Law was enacted March 27,
1934, was promulgated by Imperial Ordinance March 27, 1934, and
became effective on July 1, 1934. On June 27, 1934 Regulations
were adopted for the enforcement of the law. The oil industry is
therefore governed by the Petroleum Industry Control Law, the
Imperial Ordinance and the Regulations,all of which will be referred
to in this memorandum collectively as "the law".
The law applies to importers and refiners of petroleum
products and places practically absolute control of the business
of refining, importing and marketing of petroleum products in
the hends of the Government. Refiners and importers are required
to obtain a yearly license, which the Government may grant, modify
or withhold. They are required to segregate and keep in stock,
in addition to the stocks required to meet the current demands of
their business, such quantities (based upon importations during
speoified past periods) of fuel oil, diesel oil, gasoline and other
petroleum produots as shall be prescribed by the Government,
which stocks they are required to sell to the Government at any
time on the basis of ourrent prices, notwithstanding that the
Government itself is given power to fix selling prices. The

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
additional storage capacity required for the stocks which must be
thus segregated and carried must be provided by the refiners and
importers at their own expense and risk, and the Government has
the right to designate the place where such stocks must be carried
irrespective of whether the refiner or importer has land or storage
facilities available elsewhere. The Government may determine and
vary from time to time the amount of any produot which a refiner
or importer may import, refine or sell, and is given power to
require refiners and importers to effect extension or improvement
of their equipment. The Government is given the broadest visitor-
ial powers with respect to both business and plans and may require
disclosure of all details of the business. Persons carrying on
business of importing or refining at the time the law goes into
force are deemed to have obtained permission in accordance with the
law, but are required to file with the Government details of their
plan of operations for a specif ied future period, inc luding volume
of products to be imported or marketed during that period, which
plan unless modified with the Government's consent, must be carried
out irrespeotive of the demands of the person's business. The
Government has power to modify any plan filed and require it to be
carried out in its modified form regardless of the wishes of the
refiner or importer.
SPECIFICOBJECTIONS
The principal provisions of the law to which we take
exceptions and the grounds upon whioh we base our objections are

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
as follows:
1. The provisions requiring us to segregate and carry in stock
a volume of produots several times in exoess of our require-
ments. See Articles 5, 6 and 7 of the Control Law; Articles
7 and 8 of the Imperial Ordinanoe, and Articles 16, 17 and
21 of the Regulations.
We carry normally a three months' supply of products.
Under the law we are required by April 1, l935 to carry a three
months' extra supply, and by October, l935 we are required to
inorease this to six months' supply. e must furnish the addi-
tional storage facilities for this stock at our own expense, and
provide the storage at the place indicated by the Government.
We are required to sell these stooks to the Government at any
time at current prices regardless of whether this price is below
our laid-down cost in Japan, or below the basis of world prices,
and notwithstanding the fact that the Government has the power
to fix the selling prices. This surplus stock must be carried at
all times, which means that if the Government exercises its right
to purohase an existing surplus stock, we must replenish the stock
which the Government may in turn again require us to sell to it
at current prices. No restrictions are placed upon the number
of times the Government may exeroise this right and require us to
replenish the surplus stocks, and no limitations are placed upon
the prices to be fixed by the Government. On the basis of our
present volume of business and present prices, we estimate that
it will cost us approximately 1,900,000 to supply the surplus
stooks which we are required to carry and store for the Govern-
ment's account, and approximately 375,000 (exclusive of the ∞st
of the land) to provide the addit ional storage facilities necessary

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
therefor.
2. The provisions giving the Government the power to ensure the
supply of a quantity of petroleum, or to take other measures
in order to regulate the demand and supply of petroleum, and
to require refiners or importers to effect an extension or
improvement of their equipment. See Article 7 of the Control
Law.
These provisions are broad enough, when considered in
connection with the power of the Government to modify the plan of
operations submitted by a Company, to require a Company to provide
a supply of any product largely in excess of its needs, and to
provide the necessary storage facilities therefor. This provision
1s in addition to the one which requires the carrying of surplus
stooks above referred to. No limitation is placed upon the
measures which the Government may deem necessary in order to regu-
late the demand and supply of petroleum.
3. The provisions giving the Government the power to order a
refiner or importer to report the details with reference to
his business and operations, and to issue orders or take
other measures deemed necessary for the purpose of super-
vising the importer's or refiner's business, and the provis-
ions giving visitorial power to Government agents. See
Article 10 of the Control Law; Articles 9, 10, 11 and 29 of
the Regulations.
These provisions not only require the disclosure by a
refiner or importer of all of the details of his business, in-
cluding many matters heretofore generally regarded as essentially
private and confidential, but also gives the administrative officers
of the Government the power to issue orders, undefined in soope,
for supervising the business and to examine the condition of the
business, account books, documents "and any other objects". It
is true that the Government, in connection with its Income Tar

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Laws, has the right to require disclosure of some of this informa-
tion, but the disclosure of information to taxing authorities is
muoh different than the disclosure to administrative officers in
control of an industry. In the latter case there is real danger
that the infomation thus disclosed may come to the knowledge of
and be used by competitors to our disadvantage.
In connection with the power to be exercised by the
Government in the control of our business, there is no assurance
that we will be permitted either to retain our present volume of
business or to share in any normal increase. That there is real
danger in this situation is evidenced by the comparatively recent
action of the governmental authorities in reducing our quota under
the existing gasoline cartel arrangement. Our quota and that of
the Rising Sun Petroleum Company (British interests) was reduced,
whereas the quotas of the Japanese nationals, who were members of
the cartel, were increased by the governmental authorities. This
was commented upon in our letter to the State Department dated
August 28, 1934.
4. The provisions requiring the filing of plans and detailed
information with respect to future operations of the
business over stated periods in order to obtain a license,
and giving the power to the Government to withhold the
issuanoe of a permit. See Articles 1 and 2 of the Control
Law; Artiole 3 of the Imperial Ordinance, and Articles 1,
2, 5, 6 and 11 of the Regulations.
The requirement of a license would be unobjeotionable
were it not for its limited duration (one year), the restrictions
surrounding its issuance, and the lack of any assurance of
continuity. If a lioense is to be required it should be issued
without the necessity of complying with onerous conditions and

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
should remain in effeot for a long enough time to give us a
reasonable opportunity to amortize our investment. Our Company
and its predeoessors have been engaged in business in Japan for
noarly forty years. It has, in round numbers, about twelve million
dollars of capital invested in the Empire, and has built up a
substantial business and created a demand for products whioh are
marketed under its trade marked brands. Furthermore, as above
indioated, it will be necessary that we invest approximately
375,000 in order to provide the addi tional storage facilities
required to carry surplus stooks for the benefit of the Government,
and the investment tied up by the necessity of carrying this surplus
stock would approximate an additional 1,900,000. The withholding
of, or refusal to renew, a license would destroy our business and
jeopardize our entire investment. Under Article 3 of the Ordinance,
the Minister of Commerce and Industry is given the power to refuse
a license "when, he taking into consideration the conditions of
the demand for and the supply of oil, considers the grant of the
permit likely to hinder the healthy development of the oil industry".
The power thus given may be arbitrarily exercised and there is no
provision for judicial review. The provisions of Article ll of
the Regulations requiring the disclosure of a plan for the dis-
tribution of profits, and the provisions of Article 29 of the
Regulations giving the Minister of Commeroe and Industry the power
to order a change in the quantity to be imported or the quantity
to be sold, as set forth in the plans filed by the Company, are
partioularly objeotionable. It is difficult to forecast in
advance how profits earned in Japan will be distributed, because

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
distribution of profits is dependent not alone upon profits made
in Japan but profits made elsewhere, and on the general financial
oondition of the Company as a whole. If after making and filing
our plans for future operations over a stated period the Minister,
in the exeroise of the power granted by the Regulations, increases
the amount we plan to import, we may be required to import quanti-
ties greatly in excess of our needs at a time when the prices which
we must pay for such products are most unfavorable, and if, on the
other hand, he reduces the amount we mey import, we may have avail-
able for sale quantities insufficient to meet the demands of our
business.
ADDITIONALCOMMENTS
In addition to the objections above set forth, which
refer to specifio provisions of the Control Law, Ordinance and
Regulations, there are other factors which we think should be
given serious consideration. We call particular attention to our
General Manager's letter of August 8, 1934 to the Minister of
Commeroe at Tokyo, copy of which was sent to the State Depart-
ment with our letter of August 30th, together with a summation
of known and probable objeotionable points to this law. As a
further attachment to our letter of August 30, we sent a copy of
a letter on the same subject written by the Managing Director of the
Rising Sun Petroleum Company, Ltd. (British interests) to the
Minister. Since then, in direct reply to this questionnaire pre-
pared by our representative, we have received a cable from Japan
dated September 5th, which reads:-
"Refer to our letter No. 671 P the following in effeot

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
-8
summarises important points in official reply to our letter
of August 8th just received from Commerce Department ONE
Law recognizes established importers places no time limit
on continuance of their business and does not aim to obstruot
cont inuity Two Government when authorizing sales plans to
consider supply and demand and other things and also aims to
eliminate ruinous competition and states plans cannot be
sanotioned beyond 1 year THREE In view of increased con-
sumption government thinks it unlikely that our existing
sales will decrease unless under extraordinary circumstances.
SToP Refer to our telegram of Aug. 24th reduction of our
gasoline quota below average sales of previous 5 months due
clerical error by government we have requested rectification
which so far hes been refused. SToP Answer from Commerce
Department which we and friends consider inadequate and
evasive states government not yet in a position to officially
answer other questions and suggests that we interview under
officials which we both have decided not to do in view of
pending developments and as we consider verbal and unofficial
answers would serve no useful purpose SToP Have notified
respective Embassies STOp Japanese companies have suggested
renewing gasoline cartel which expired on August 3lst on
basis of quotas assigned by government but friends and our-
selves have declined to discuss quotas for the present however
to avoid unnecessarily weakening markets we both have stated
willing to continue price arrangements. Friends cabling
similarly."
We quote from our cable to Yokohama of September 7th as
follows:-
"Roferring to your cable of August 30th in view of pending
important developments affecting our business in Japan
particularly with respect to control law as well as other
considerations which may affect our future sources of
supply for Japan, we are definitely opposed to your filing
any application for refinery at this time STOP We therefore
think you should advise government in writing that in view
of their inability to give us any satisfactory assurance as
to our future in Japan as indioated by their reply to your
letter of Aug. 8th set forth in your cable of Sept. 5th, your
principals are unwilling to make definite application for
refinery at this time as huge additional expense involved
in no way warranted STOP However, this deoision is made in
full expectation government will not exolude from favorable
consideration at any future date our application to refine."
On September 13th, our Japan Office cabled that the
Dutoh Legation had been instructed to file a protest against stock
holding regulations and restriotion of gasoline quota, which

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
information was passed on to our Embassy at Tokyo.
We are also attaching an extract from a letter from the
Managing Director of the Rising Sun Petroleum Company, Ltd. to
the Minister of Commeroe and Labor in which he asks assurances on
nine specific points, the answers to which, if obtainable, would
be of equal importance to us. We do not know the date of this
letter, but believe it was presented in the early part of August.
The seriousness of this entire mat ter cannot be too
greatly emphasized. Even prior to the enactment of the Petroleum
Industry Control Law, we were under Government control inasmuch
as prices on gasoline were concerned by virtue of the Industrial
Control Act, which was extended in November, l932 to cover gasoline,
and as pointed out in our memo of August 2l, our operations for the
year 1932 resulted in a loss of about 2,000,000 and in 1933 a
loss of about 300,O00. We can therefore see but little future
for our Company in Japan unless the onerous restrictions imposed
by the new law are removed.
1 enclosure
September 19, 1934.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
EXTRACT OF LETTER FROI: THE
MANAGING DIRECTOR OF HE
RISING SUN PETROLEUM COIPANY, LTD.
TO THE MINISTER OF COLMERCE AT TOKYO.
Our Principals respeotfully beg assurances on the
following points:
1.
In view of the fact that one of the oojects of the Control
Law is to enc ourage refining in Japan and the present tariff
gives an advantage to local ref iners, is it tie overnment's
wish and shall we be allowed to erect refineries in Japan
sufficient to ref ine the quantities of procucts we are at
present selling ?
2.
If we make the necessary investment for this object shall
we receive equal treatment with Japanese refiners in re ard to
trade quotas, licences, Subsidies, etc.?
3.
If this question must be submitted to the Advisory Com-
mittee, shall we, in view of the delay involved, be given a
period of grace in which to erect the facilities required oy
the Law ?
4.
If we are not allowed to build Ref ineries and decide
to continue import ing Refined Products, can we have an assu rance
if we make the investment reguired by the Law for storing
Refined Produots that our present trade in Refined Produots,
both Benzine and Kerosene, will not be out down, and to what
extent shall we be allowed to participate in the inoreased
demand, if the demand continues to increase ?

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
The Regulations call for annual licences, but we would
respeotfully point out this gives a very insecure basis of
investment and we would suggest that the period of licence
be altered so as to give a suitable period for amortis ing
investments.
5.
If our Principals f ind themselves unaole to make the
investment called for by the Law, shall we receive compensation
for loss of past investments, which would oe rendered useless
if our trade is curtailed or  iven up ?
6.
If it is decided at any time to give assistance for the
expense reguired to carry the six months' stock, as ordered at
present under the Control Law, will our Company participate
on equal terms with Japanese Companies ?
e understand that it was the Government's intention at
one time to reguire stocks even larger than ö months to be
held but thet the Department of Commerce and Industry feels
that the Companies cannot be asked to carry a larger burden,
and therefore if it is later decided to ask them to carry
larger stocks some form of subsidy will be granted. In such
case might we be assured that our Company will rece ive the same
treatment as Japanese Companies ?
7.
The Law gives the Ifinister of Commerce and Industry authority
to control prices and also gives authority to c ompel Companies
(▲) to sell their stooks to the Government
(B)
to complete any sales or import programme they have
submitted.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
We beg to be informed on what basis prices will be controlled
by the Government and whether in the event of our cont inuing to
import Refined Products consideration will be iven in fixing
prioes to the duty advantage in favor of products refined in
Japan, so that we shall not be compelled to sell at a loss.
Similarly, may we have an assurance that subsidies will
not be granted to refiners in Japan with the object of reducing
the prices of the prod ucts refined in Japan.
8.
We beg to be informed of the items inoluded in the
Government's estimate of the cost of carrying stocks and par-
tioularly what is the est imate for insurance on stocks.
9.
In the event of our Company making the investments
necessary to oontinue our trade under the Control Law, but later
wishing to withdraw, can we be eiven a guarantee that we shall
be allowed to re-export any capital we bring in now ?
To:
His Exoe llenoy Machida Chuji,
Minister of Commerce and Industry,
TOKYO.
B

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NDER SECRETARY
September 22,
m
Conversation.
Mr. B. Kleijn Molekamp, Commercial Counselor,
OCT 13 1
Netherland Legation,
1
DIVIBION
and Mr. Hamilton.
Subject: Japanese Petroleum Law.
894.6363
Mr. Hamilton telephoned Mr. Molekamp and referred to
previous conversations in which Mr. Molekamp had been so
good as to inform the Department in regard to the attitude
and action of the Netherland Government in reference to the
/95
Japenese petroleum law. Mr. Hamilton stated that yesterday
(Sertamber 2l) the Department had telegraphed the American
Embassy at Tokyo requesting that the Embassy informally
invite the attention of the Japanese Government to the fact
that the interested American firms were convinced that if
quotas for the importation of oil were likely to be pre-
()
soribed without regard to the amount of business done in
the past by firms that may be affected; if there was likeli-
hood or possibility that quotas might subsequently be raised
or lowered at will; if such firms were to be required to
install equipment and maintain stocks of oil in no way
related to their ordinary commercial requirements; and if
such stocks were to be subject to purchase by the Japanese
Government at a price to be fixed by that Government; -- the
resultant
G

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
resultant conditions would be so burdensome and hazardous
as to impair the abilities of the companies concerned to
carry on their business in Japan in a prudent and com-
mercially sound way.
Mr. Molekamp inquired whether there would be any
objection to the Netherland Legation communicating this
information to the Netherland Government and Mr. Hamilton
replied that there would be no objection on our part.
Mr. Hamilton added that we had been informed by
telegraph from Tokyo that on September 18 the Netherland
Minister at Tokyo had made representations to the Japanese
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Mr. Molekamp thanked Mr. Hamilton for communicating
to him the above information.
m.m.H.
xH
MMH/REK

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
SeR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEZ
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
181
Ootober 2,1934.
LIVEBION
Mr. Walter C. Teagle,
134
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
president, Standard Oil
Company of New Jersey.
081 0- 1934
Mr. Hornbeok.
Departsount of State
894.
894.6363/96
Subjoot:
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
Mr. Teagle called and inquired whether there were
any new developments in this case. I said that we had
had nothing new. I inquired whether he had anything.
He said that he had not but that he wondered whether we
had heard anything of action by the British Government.
I said that we had heard nothing since the information
which he had given us to the effect that the British
Foreign Office had instructed the British Ambassador in
Tokyo to confer with his American and his Dutoh colleagues.
I added that I was sure that if anything had oocurred the
Embassy in Tokyo would have informed us.
I then read to Mr. Teagle two paragraphs bearing on
the problem of American petroleum selling organizations
in China and in Japan from a letter from the Amerioan
Minister to China to me, of date August 23, in which Mr.
Johnson disoussed the problem of restrictive measures in
the
F/G

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
一 2 -
the United States for the purpose of inducing better treat-
ment in China and in Japan and the difficulties of getting
cooperation among the companies themselves and acquiescence
by them in governmental measures of control which might be
necessary to make this process effective.
From that point on the conversation covered the broad
range of problems which confront the American petroleum
industry, with regard to which some very interesting state-
ments of fact, of comment and of conjecture were made by
Mr. Teagle. At one point Mr. Teagle said that he had
been considering for some time the possibility that there
might be sent by him and by Sir Henri Deterding special
representatives to talk with high Japanese authorities, men
who could speak with more knowledge of the oil industry as
a whole and the politics of the oil business than can the
representatives of the companies who are the sales managers
in Japan. There was also a canvassing of various possibili-
ties of strategy or tactics. It was agreed that at the
moment there was probably no step which could to advantage
be taken either by Mr. Teagle or by the Government, and
that the attitude to be assumed for the time being should
be one of watchful waiting.
mT
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
R= 381
や
1530 Hawthorne Terrace
Berkeley, Calif.
Division
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
2.0
To G-2, Ninth Corps Area Hq.
0CT 4 - 1934
Subject: Japanese Oil Situation.
Degertyient of State
1. From Mr. Galbraith, an employee of the Union Oil Co. of California,
am advised that the Japanese are buying record breaking supplies
of oil, and are now in the market with inquiries for large amounts
for delivery as of next March.
894.6363/97
It is suggested that more definite information might be had as to
quantities going to Japan from Dutch East India sources, by in-
quiry through attaches in Great Britain or in Holland. Not all
of the Japanese imports are coming from the United States, by any
means.
2.
Attached is translation of the oil law of Japan, previously referred
to. This law has been followed by the issuing of two Imperial Ordi-
nances laying down the procedure to be followed in detail.
The two outstanding purposes of the act are - l. To force firms
engaged in the oil industry in Japan to maintain a 50% surplus,
and 2. To enable the government to fix a price and buy all stocks
at that price with no further action, or delay - note paragraphs
SIX & SEVEN.
While under the act an individual firm is only required to main-
tain a surplus of 50% of its annual sales of oil, it has been
pointed out that in practice this will insure tankage of from a
year to a year and half supply. Note Importers must have tank-
age to hold 50% of their annual importations - Refiners must have
tankage to hold 50% of their annual refinery output, and dealers
who buy in part from local refiners and import in part will quite
FILED
likely be required to provide tankage for 50% of their total turn-
over.
This act in practice ties up 50% of the oil importers and refiners
inventory capital permanently. In addition he is faced with the
possibility of being ordered to increase the capacity of his plant
or tank farm, the Minister of Commerce being empowered to order
any increase he deems expedient in the interest of the public wel-
fare.
/s/
E. 0. Sawyer, Jr.,
Major - MI-Res.
F1
SECRET
G

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEWYORK
October 17th, 1934.
yu
1834
994.6363
Divicl
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ackid.
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
118 1934
Department of State,
公
Washington, D.C.
Department of State
894.6363/98
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Continuing with advices in respect to the
Petroleum Industry Control Law in Japan, we now have pleasure
in attaching in duplicate, two recent cables from Yokohama, namely,
dated October 10th and October 15th.
While it is probable that these require but
little explanation, nevertheless may we be permitted to comment as
follows:-
111
On the second page of the Cable of October 10th,
our Yokohama Office mention their questionnaire of August 8th. This
was addressed to the Minister of Commerce and Industry at Tokyo, and
a copy was forwarded you with our letter of August 30th. While per-
haps irrelevant at the time, Mr. Yoshino's assertion that the
Japanese Control Law is less burdensome than the French Law, is, in
our opinion, not in accordance with facts as determined by a pre-
vious comparison of the two, which unquestionably proved that the
former is far more onerous. This matter is again being reviewed
mainly for the purpose of advising Yokohama in just what respect
these two laws differ and when we write our Japan Office, we shall
take the liberty of sending you a copy of our remarks.
In regard to the Cable of October l5th, reference
on the second page to words 154 to 199 in Yokohama's message of
September 28th, is in respect to the question of the storage pro-
vision, which as you know, is one of the points to which we most
seriously object. If subsequent dispatches on this phase contain
information which may be of interest or value to you, we shall
pass it on to you.
Yours very truly,
Kemm4. bor
KFC:M
Kersey F. 'Coe.
mo..

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
0
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
FROM YOROMAMA
ANS D BY
CABLE
NEW YORK
PAGB 1
ANS'D BY
TO
LETTER
005 10/84
NO
REC D
DISTR D
Apparently as a result of our contimued pressure we were summoned by Yoshino
Vice-Minister of Commerce and informed as follows: First We asked Yoshino spee-
1fieally whether in his personal opinion there was any possibility of a modi-
fieation (in/of) stock holding regulation-s he answered negatively Socond Gov-
ernment recognizes basis used to fix Gasoline quota-s imposes special diffi-
culty-s upon us although unintentional and has promised adjustment-s when Pete
roloum Committee fixes Gasoline quota-s for l935 also Government intimate-s-ing
a there (is) are certain investigation-s now in progress whioh may lead shortly
to our being granted a quota somewhat larger than 96,000 kilolitres for last-
half of this year Third Govermment confirms inoreased quotas were assigned (to)
Japanese Companies to reduce idle refining capacity and to encourage local re-
fining in keeping with intent of control law Fourth  Govermment recegnizes total
Gasoline quota-s approved may exceed estimated consumption last half of this

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.94)
INCONITICCABLLGRAM
ANS：
FROM
YOKOHAMA
AB:
MEW YORK
PAGB 2
1O
OCT 10/34
DATE
jear thus operating against stabilization but does not antioipate following
this prooedure next year PIFTH Yoshino now states unlike-ly that we will re-
eoive any further official written answer to our questionaire-s of Aug. 8th
anl defend-s Japanese control law as being less burdensome than Fronch law-s
upon whioh based see our letter to I.W.Parker September 28th STCP Embassy and
frionds have been informed of foregoing SToP SIxTH Yoshino promised that even
though our company postpones offioially apylying for permit-s to refine until
we have had an opportunity of discussing question with our direetors neverthe-
less because of our long standing fartioipation in Japanese market-s if we de-
oide to refine and submit our application within a reasonable time it will be
given favorable consideration provided capacity is within our present trade sToP
It was intimated that if we combined with Japanese a refinery of larger capacity
may be allowed.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
0
INCOMINCABLEGRAM
ROM YOKOHAMA
NEW YORK
PAGE 1
TO
00T 10/34
Apparently as a result of our continued pressure we were summoned by Yoshino
Vice-Minister of Commerce and informed as follows: First We asked Yoshino spec-
ifically whether in his personal opinion there was any possibility of a modi-
fioation (in/of) stock holding regulation-s he answered negatively Second Gov-
ernment recognizes basis used to fix Gasoline quota-s imposes special diffi-
culty-s upon us although unintentional and has promised adjustment-s when Pet
roloum Committee fixes Gasoline quota-s for l935 also Government intimate-s-ing-
a there (is) are certain investigation-s now in progress which may lead shortly
to our being granted a quota Bomewhat larger than 96,000 kilolitres for last-
half of this year Third Government confirms increased quotas were assigned (to)
Japanese Companies to reduce iale refining capacity and to encourage local re-
fining in keeping with intent of control law Fourth  Government recognizes total
Gasoline quota-s approved may exceed estima ted oonsumption last half of this

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.96)
ROM
YOKOHAMA
NEW YORK
PAGB 2
TQ.
OCT 10/34
DATL
year thus operating against stabilization but does not unticirute following
this procedure next year PIFTH Yoshino now states unlike-ly that we will re-
coive any further official written answer to our questionaire-s of Aug. 8th
anl defend-s Japanese control law as bein: less burdensome than Fronch law-s
upon whioh based see our letter to I.W.Parker sertember zuth STcI Embasss und
frionds have been informed of foregoing STor SIxTH Yoshino promised that eren
though our company postpones offioially apylying for rermit-s to refine until
we have had an oprortunity of discussinz question with our directors neverthe-
less because of our long standing Iartisirution in Jaranese market-s if we de..
oide to refine and submit our applicution within a reusonable time it will be
given favorable consideration provided caracity is within our present trade sToP
It was intimated that if we combined with Jaranese a refinery of larger capucity
may be allowed.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.88)
0
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
YOKOHAMA
ANBLDY
NEW YORK
PAGE 1
CEPIERY
OCT 15/34
NO.
REC'D
DISTR'D
In a private disouesion with Yod:ino rubsequent to official interview of Oct.
8th covered by our telegrem of Oct. loth we ere aavised au follas: First If
we applied officially Ycshino thought he could cltain an indertaking from the
Minister of Commerce guaranteein our cxisti: volume of Yus inese in Japan ant
Korea Formosa in ell products from 5 years to 10 years Srcona altl.ou te coule
not speek for other govemment depurtnent   e ted n Irtole
Committee which is now expeoted to convone late i. Catc ap Yoshine sufd Conree
Department and Foreien Cfice  st  c to 
in some of(the) rel orouse in esupiont r si
In our oinion the sitde may    t  anese r
ers will be able to borb l  r?
 cesire to co
ciliate foredn co 
ion or tde ()1

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.85)
INGOMING CABLEGRAM
EXS:DDY
YOROHAA
JOWYORK
PLOE 2
CEPIRRY
DATE 0CT 15/34
NO.
REC'D
DISTR'D
tecome largely a question of bugatning tn slso peinted cut the nationalistio
trade tendonoy-s of many countrles Or Before cenpatcl. of cur telegram (of)
Oot. 1oth as well as this tolegram 1 rointe wc  enil confirmed with
Yoahino and we have advi ed embeas: sll : ertirant  te  ior Hxpect to tele-
graph in a few days regapain aple cnth (or) yoras 154 to 199 our telegram
Sopt. 28th sr0p Unoonflme ll   incie 10o.000 tons
Irag crude oil huve been orfeea a  ares  ro, next year delivery
also that negotiutione le le w t'e eet of cinins crude cll from
Colombie STop Althouch poliey (o) Jror is to a elor cruce supplyes (from)
all sources possible we relieve rae on is ebvious-lr for sheve article-s
appearing at this perticl tir r   ed.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.95)
YOKOHAMA
JBW YORK
PAGE 1
007 15/34
DATE
In a private disoussion with Yoshino subsequent to official interview of Oct.
th covered by our telegram of Oct. loth we were advised as follows: First If
we applied officially Yoshino thought he could obtain an undertaking from the
Minister of Commerce guaranteeing our existing volume of bus iness in Japan and
Korea Formosa in all products from 5 years to 10 yeurs Second Althougr he could
not speak for other government depurtments o be repre ented on Te troleun
Committee which is now expeoted to convene late in October Yoshino said Commerce
Department and Foreign Office favored permitting foreien cil company-s to share
in some of (the) natural increase in casoline consumption during next year sTOr
In our opinion this attitude may rise te much from doubt that Jananese refin-
ers will be able to absorb all the natwul increase as from ery desire to con-
ciliate foroign company-s Third In explanation (of) scvernment s ixing divis-
lon of trade (for) 1 year at a time Yoshino said  at Inte national trade had

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.96)
YOKOHAMA
MWYORK
PAGT 2
065 15/34
become largely a question of hargaining and also pointed out the nationalistio
trade tendenoy-s of many countries STor Before despatch of our telegrum (of)
Oct. loth as well as this telegram ell points were carefully confirmed with
Yoshino and we have advised eubassy ail pertinent facts STop Expect to tele
graph in a few days regarding developments (of) words 154 to 199 our telegram
Sept. 28th ST0P Unoonfirmed local newsparer report-s indicate 100,000 tons
Iraq crude oil have been offered to broker-s Nomura for next year delivery
also that negotiations have begun with the object of obtaining crude oil from
Colombia SToP Although polioy (of) Japan is to develop crude supply  (from)
all sources possible we believe reason is obvious-ly for above article-s
appearing at this partioular time which may be inspired.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.90)
Oetccer 19 1984,
Dear Mr. Coe:
The reeeipt is acknowledged with thanks of your
894.6363/98
letter of Oetober 17, 1934, and of its enelosures con-
sisting of copies of cables from your Yokohame office
under dates Csteber 10 and October 15, in regard to the
Japenese Petroleum Industry Law.
Your cooperation in continuing to keep the Depart-
ment ourrently informed of developments in the situation
under reference is appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
M.y.H
Marwell X. Hamilton,
Leting Chief.
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Mr. Larsey F. Coe,
Staméard-Vacwm O1l Compamy,
26 Breadway,
√507
New York, Now York.
A true copy of
CB
the signed anei-
19 1984
nal.
w
Lms-
2.24.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
3
RLCESETANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
26 BROADWAY
NEWYORK
1934 OCT 20 AM 10 19
October 19th, 1934.
DIVISII OF
ack.
COMMUN
ONS
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
5A
894.6363/99
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Following our letter of October l7th, we
are taking the liberty of enclosing in duplicate, a cable
received today from our Yokohama Office.
The first part of this message deals with the
form we are obligated to submit to the Japanese authorities
covering the so-called Business Plan for 1935. When Yokohama
prepared this for the officials at Tokyo, they left blank that
part of the questionnaire in respect to complying with the storage
regulations of the Control Law, for obviously, they were not in a
position to submit such information, as the policy of the Company
covering this matter had not been formulated. In fact, this is
still the situation today. You will observe that at the suggest-
ion of the American Embassy our representatives in Japan do not
propose to reply at the moment.
If it is an appropriate request, we shall appre-
ciate it if we are notified of any developments in the dispatches
mailed by the Embassy and due in Washington next week, which in
your opinion, would be of interest to us. Further, if after re-
ceipt of these dispatches you think it advisable that someone
from our office proceed to Washington, we shall be much pleased
to make this arrangement.
Very truly yours,
Kecrmy F. 6o2
KFC:M
Kersey F. Coe.
NCS.(2).

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.93)
YOKOHAKA
BWYORK
4
00 19/34
Reforring to our letter No. 822 we have reoeived answer from Government to
our letter of Sept. 28th in w.1ch: we are oficially requested to submit with-
out delay information necessary (te/for) complete form-s four hut for reeson-s
as per our telegram Sept. 28t. and a': the s gestion of resrective Embassies
friends and ourselves propose (to) ignore-ing for the present STop Embassies
have been advised unofficially by Foreign Office that Japanese Governnent is
drafting a reply to representations (ty/of) foreign governmente which will
stress certain prinoiple-s lut beyond this can ascertain nothing STop Friends
have advised London STop Constructive and impo:tant despatoh-es dated Oot.Sth
from Amerioan Embassy due in Washington, D.C. by mail oarly next week STor
In our judgment whatever further action is contemplated by foroign covern-
ment-s should be teken prior to meeting-s (of/with) Fetroleum Committee
whioh it is reported may be postponed until early in November.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.92)
(200)
Ootober 22 1984.
Dear Mr. Cos:
The reeeipt is ackmowlodged with thanks of your
letter of Ostober 19, 1934, and of the copy, enelosed
therewith, of a cablegram received from your Yokohama
effiee om Ostober 19 in regard to the Japanese Petroleum
894.6363/99
Industry Law.
with reference to the statement made by your repre-
semtative in Yekohamm to the effect that the Ameriean
Embessy om Oetober 5 addressed to the Department certain
important despatehes relative to the aforementioned Law,
I may state that if upon the receipt of suoh despatebes
the Department is in a position to offer informatiom or
sussestiems whieh might prove of prectical assistance,
it would expeet to commmmieate with you without dolay.
simeerely yours,
Fer the Seeretary of State:
OCT 22, 1934.
CE
Stanley K. Mormbeek,
chief,
Divisiem of Far Eastera Affairs.
011 Compamy.
A true copy, of
LRiM.
nul.
10/22/34
PE

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
20
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FAR EASTEGN AFFAIRS
MP
061 22 1934
1—1336
This telegram must be
FROM
closely paraphrased be-
Department of State
fore being communicated
to anyone (B)
Tolkyo
Dated October 2?, 1934
Rec:d 10:25 a.m.
Secretary of State,
894.6363/100
Washington.
not
232, October 22, 5 p.m.
291.236
Embassy's 222, 'October 10, noo1, and previous
893.6360.
regarding the oil situation in Japan and Manchuria.
One. Referring to pages 3 and 4 of the Embassy's
1101
despatch No. 1001, October 5, hich should now be in
the hands of the Department, the Department of Commerce
and Industry has refused to grant a postponemont of
the time for filing import and storage plans and has
demanded submission of the plans without delay. The
foreign oil companies do not see their way to comply
with the demand at present.
Two. According to Peiping's telegram No. 478
October 21, 6 p.m., plans for an oil monopoly in Man-
churia are progressing.
Three. It therefore appears that the oil situation
in Japan and Manchuria is rapidly approaching a orisis.
Four.
F/G

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
MP
2-#232 From Tokyo, Oct. 22, 5 p.m,
Four. The Petroleum Committee set up in Japan by
the petroleum industry law is scheduled to meet in late
October or early November to consider various phases of
the oil industry.
Five. When the failure of the foreign oil com-
panies to store six months stoc'ks of oil is brought
before the Petroleum Committee, it is feared that the
Committee may take some histy a d crastic action in regard
to the foreign oil comnanies vhich would have to be
upheld in the future because repeal would cause too great
loss of face.
Six. It therefore might be advisable that any
steps which the American Government contemplates taking
in this connection should be decided upon before the
meeting of the Petroleum Committee.
Repeated to Peiping.
GREW
HPD

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.87)
EMBASSY OF THE
A-LC
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 5, 1934.
FEl
No. 1001.
Subject:
American Oil Interests in Japan.
894.6313
141.(88)
AE    A
934 0 2 118
COUNIATIONS
A
894.6363/101
d S
DIVISON OF
ED
b. reey
6
CONPTDENTIAL.
01
The Honorable
CLASSIFICATION CAL'D AtherI: leter
The Secretary of State,
of 5-20-64 from s 1. S, Sate Det
By l/ cicy Dale 3// /62
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
No. 984, dated September 21, 1934, and to previous corres-
pondence on the subject of American oil interests in Japan
and their difficulties under the new Petroleum Industry
Law. From recent indications it appears that the various
questions involved may soon reach an acute stage.
Representations to the Japanese Government.
In compliance with the Department's telegraphic instruc-
76
tion No. 162,/September 21, 8 p.m., I made oral represen-
tations to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on September
FLED
(C.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
25, 1934, reading to him that portion of the Department's
instruction which was intended for the Japanese Government.
At his request I left with him a copy of the representations
without, however, any indication that it was a written com-
munication from the Embassy to the Foreign Office. A copy
1/
of the document left with the Minister is enclosed herewith,
for the records of the Department. Mr. Hirota expressed
himself as sympathizing with the foreign oil companies in
their difficulties and expressed the hope that something
could be done in the premises. A copy of a memorandum of
my conversation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs is
2/
also enclosed.
The British Embassy at Tokyo has informed this Embassy
that it has received instructions from its Foreign Office to
make representations to the Japanese Foreign Office on the
subject of the Petroleum Control Law and its effect on
British oil interests, following the representations made
by the American Embassy. Mr. Sansom, the Commercial Coun-
selor of the British Embassy, informed a member of my staff
that, while his instructions did not authorize the Embassy
to ask for some modification of the present burdensome re-
gulations, in view of the fact that the American Embassy had
made such a request, he would include the request in the
representations which he was drafting. The representations
will be made in the course of the next few days, and the
Department will be informed by telegraph when they have
been filed with the Foreign Office.
The Stock-Holding Requirements.
A

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
As was stated in the Embassy's despatch No. 984, of
September 21, 1934, the oil companies (native as well as
foreign) were required to file by September 30, 1934, with
the Department of Commerce and Industry, their plans for
1935, including their sales plans, plans for storage (to
include their plans for storage of the six months' stocks
required under the new law), and plans for importation of
the oil, both for working stocks and for storage. The for-
eign oil companies were unable to comply with the regulation,
as their head offices had not authorized them to consent to
store six months' stocks in Japan. At the same time, if
they failed to comply with the regulation, they made them-
selves liable to punishment under the law. They avoided the
difficulty temporarily by filing their sales plans only, and
asking for postponement of the time for filing the storage
and import plans, on the ground that these matters were the
subjects of discussion(referring here to the diplomatic repre-
sentations). A copy of the letter written to the Minister
for Commerce and Industry by the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
dated September 28, 1934, requesting the postponement, is
3/
enclosed for the information of the Department. The oil
companies hope that delaying the issue will give time for .
the diplomatic representations which have been made or which
will be made to take effect.
The question has arisen, however, of the next step should
the Department of Commerce and Industry refuse to grant the
extension of time and insist upon immediate filing of the
storage and import plans. According to the opinion of the
attorney

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
attorney for the Rising Sun Petroleum Company, the filing
of the plans will constitute an obligation to fulfill
those plans should they be approved by the Department
of Commerce and Industry - a contingency which the for-
eign oil companies wish to avoid by every means in their
power. The two foreign oil companies have therefore in-
formally requested their respective Embassies to consider
the possibility of making representations on this point
on their behalf should the Department of Commerce and In-
dustry adopt an intransigeant attitude. It is therefore
possible that the Embassy will request instructions of
the Department in regard to this point in the near future.
Sales Quotas.
75
As was noted in the Embassy's despatch No. 957, dated
September 6, 1934, the quota for gasoline allotted to the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company by the Department of Commerce
and Industry for the last half of 1934 was less than their
average sales in previous months and did not include any
part of the natural increase in demand, the natural in-
crease being entirely allotted to the Japanese refineries.
The Standard-Vacuum Oil Company protested the allotment,
but the Department of Commerce and Industry refused to ac-
> cept the protest. The Standard-Vacuum Oil Company eventually
accepted the allotment "against their will", but has addressed
another protest to the Department of Commerce and Industry,
giving in detail the causes for complaint against the allot-
ment, quoting previous assurances which had been made to the
effect that no discrimination would be practiced in the opera-
tion of the new law, and asking for reconsideration of the
guota

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.94)
- 5 -
quota granted. A copy of this letter is enclosed herewith.
Mr. Goold, the General Manager for Japan of the Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company states that, if this latest protest
fails, he will request the Embassy to take up the matter
through diplomatic channels.
STRIOTTI OONTDENTIAL

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSFIMSTION CD A thory: letter
STRIOTLY CONEIDENTIAL.
of 5:20-64   1. , Sa D
2NooleDale 3//67
I cannot escape the conclusion that every effort
should be made by our Government, in connection with the
petroleum situation in Japan and Manchuria, to protect
as far as may be possible the large interests of our
nationals in the oil trade of those regions, even at
the risk that such efforts may bring added irritation
to the relations between Japan and the United States.
The oil problem in Japan and Manchuria, which in-
dicates gross disregard of the rights and legitimate
interests of other nationals, is more than a mere matter
of the protection of commercial interests; it is a mat-
ter which directly concerns international policy and in-
ternational amity. Unfortunately, in all important in-
stances during recent years where the Japanese have dis-
played their power, force could not be used effectively for
the purpose of compelling a more reasonable attitude on
their part. In the case of Japan's oppression of the for-
eign oil interests, however, the nations concerned have
an effective remedy.
Petroleum is Japan's weakest point. The nation must
have considerable supplies of oil for its navy, merchant
marine, internal transport, air force, manufacturing in-
dustries and fishing fleets. The oil produced in Japan
mannot fill more than twenty per cent of the requirements.
By controlling the supply of crude oil at the sources, there-
fore, the interested countries may be able to induce a more
reasonable attitude on the part of the Government and the
people here toward other peoples and toward international
relations

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
relations in general.
From a purely commerical point of view, the action
indicated above would appear to be both appropriate and
feasible. The closing of the door to American oil com-
panies in Manchuria through the operation of a monopoly
system, in order to throw the business to a Japanese-
Manchurian refining company, and the probability that the
American oil companies selling refined products in Japan
will gradually be forced out of the Japanese market through
the quota system already established, would certainly ap-
pear to justify us in refusing longer to sell the Japanese
the materials with which they can accomplish these results.
By far the greatest part of the petroleum and petroleum
products used in Japan is of American origin. There would
seem to be no reason why an American raw material should
be supplied in unlimited quantities to assist in closing
the market to American finished products.
Moreover, the action of the Japanese Government in
compelling the foreign oil companies to pay for and store,
in tanks which they must themselves erect, large quantities
of oil in Japan in order to create a war reserve for Japan,
is one that can only be described as most unfair to the
foreign oil companies and one which should be resisted in
every way possible, even though the resistance may work a
temporary hardship on some interests, such as small inde-
pendent producing companies in California which occasionally
sell small quantities of crude oil to the Japanese refineries.
The
1

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
The local managers of the two large foreign oil com-
panies operating in Japan are agreed that the plan of con-
trolling Japan's supply of crude oil would be commercially
feasible, provided that the Aerican Government could con-
trol exports from the United States. The Netherlands In-
dies fields are controlled by the Shell and Standard in-
terests; the Persian and Burman fields are controlled by
the Shell interests; the Iraq field is under the control
of an international company of which large shares are
held by the Shell and certain American interests. Other
sources available outside the United States are in Mexico,
Venezuela, Rumania and Russia. The Soviets are not ex-
pected to be able to supply Japan with large quantities
of crude oil, as their production is only slightly in ex-
cess of their own requirements; their crude oil, moreover
is not adapted to the existing Japanese refineries and the
cost of transportation from the Black Sea is excessive.
The Rumanian oil interests are anxious to sell crude oil
to Japan, but the quality of the oil is poor and transporta-
tion costs are again excessive. The Japanese hope to be
able to find sources of supply in Mexico and Venezuela,
but as yet the quantities available from independent pro-
ducers are small and the cost of transportation is heavy.
Moreover, such sources as Mexico, Venezuela, Rumania and
Russia would not be satisfactory in time of war, as the
lines of transportation are long and could be easily cut.
The managers of the foreign oil companies in Japan there-
fore believe that if the American Government could control
the

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
the export of crude oil to Japan from the United States,
the Shell and Standard interests would limit the export
from other fields controlled by them, and the Japanese
refineries would be placed in a most difficult position,
from which they could only extricate themselves by aban-
doning their plans for monopolizing the oil trade of
Japan and Manchuria.
Compelling the Japanese to abandon their plan of
building up large reserves of oil at the expense of the
oil companies would also appear to be advisable from a
military point of view. The Japanese military machine is
one of the most powerful in the world and therefore con-
stitutes a constant menace to the peace of the world. It
would seem, under the circumstances, to be inadvisable to
consent to any measures which would tend to strengthen this
machine.
893136334
In its telegram No. 182, August 20, 3 p.m., this Em-
bassy offered the suggestion that exports of crude oil to
Japan and Manchuria be limited or stopped, and further sug-
gested that, as an indication that some such measure was
being considered, the American Government might request ex-
porters of oil to furnish data regarding their exports, in
order to enable the Government to study the effects upon
our nationals' oil interests abroad of our exports of crude
oil. This suggestion was made in the belief that even a
threat of retaliatory measures would cause the Japanese
Government and oil interests to relax their pressure upon
American oil interests in Japan and Manchuria. It is be-
lieved that some initial step should be taken in the near
future, as the foreign oil companies are being forced into
an
A

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10 -
an increasingly difficult position.
It is realized that many difficulties both domestic
and international are involved in attempting to control
the export of oil from the United States. It means in
many ways an acceptance of the concept that international
trade is a matter to be arranged by Governments; that the
individual merchant is to be directed, perhaps even sacri-
ficed, in an effort to promote what is supposed to be the
common good. Legal and perhaps political considerations,
of which the Embassy has no knowledge, might be involved
before a decision could be reached. For the foregoing
or other reasons it may not be feasible to adopt the sug-
gestions contained in this despatch, but at the present
writing, there se ms to be no other method of relieving
the situation here.
Respectfully yours,
Cam . truill
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
Enclosures:
1.
Copy of document left
with the Minister for Foreign
Affairs.
2.
Copy of memorandum of conver-
sation between the Minister for
Foreign Affairs and Mr. Neville.
3.
Copy of letter to Minister of
Commerce & Industry from the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,September 28, 1934.
4.
Copy of letter to Minister of
Commerce and Industry from the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, October 3, 1934.
863.6
ERD:g
4FP

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
to despatch
 NO
...10p1 of ourobex s1934 from the
Embassy at Tokya
1. The American Government has noted the enactment
by the Japanese Government of a law (Law. No. 26 of March
27, l934) for the control of the petroleum industry
in Japan and, in view of the substantial participation
of American interests in that industry it is moved in all
friendliness to invite the attention of the Japanese
Government to the disabilities which the law under
reference threatens to impose upon American petroleum
interests in Japan.
2. The American firms concerned are convinced that
if as a condition to continuation of their business in
Japan they are to be required to install equipment and
maintain stocks of oil and oil products in excess of
their ordinary commercial requirements; if the required
stocks are to be subject to purchase by the Japanese
Government at a price to be fixed by that Government;
if there is likelihood or possibility that quotas will
be prescribed regardless of the amount of business done
in the past by firms that may be affected; and if there
is likelihood or possibility that quotas may subsequently
be raised or be lowered at will; -- these firms would
not be able to formulate long term plans for the reason-
able safeguarding of their enterprises in Japan and would
find it impossible to invest with any sense of security
funds necessary for the operation of those enterprises.
Accordingly it is felt that subjection of their enter-
prises to such conditions and the meeting by the companies
of such requirements would be tantamount to a laying upon
the companies of special burdens the effect of which
would be a contribution to a national objective of Japan
at heavy cost to the American enterprises concerned
but with no advantage or compensation to the enterprises
themselves.
3. In view of the destructive effect which appli-
cation of certain provisions of the law would presumably
have upon legitimate and established interests developed
over a period of many years by American enterprise in
response to economic needs of the Japanese people the
American Government expresses the hope that the Japanese
Government will see its way clear to avoid subjecting
American petroleum interests in Japan to the unusual
hazards and the burdensome restrictions upon the normal
conduct of business which are apparently implicit in the
law under reference.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
to despaich
Euclosure No 2
No 1001 of oobrs1924from the
okvo.
COPY
Memorandum of Conversation between
The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Hirota,
and Mr. Neville, September 25, 1934.
Oil Situation
I called on the Minister by appointment at 3 o'clock.
I told him that I had come by direction of my Government
to deliver an oral communication in regard to the oil
situation. I read to him that portion of the Department's
telegraphic instruction No. 162, September 21, 8 p.m.,
which was intended for the Japanese Government. At his
request I left him a copy without any indication that it
was a written communication of any description from the
Embassy to the Foreign Office. He said that of course he
was not familiar with the details and that the matter was
still in the hands of the Department of Commerce and In-
dustry which was studying it very carefully. He said that
the Foreign Office recognized the hardship which would be
worked upon foreign companies particularly but upon
Japanese oil companies as well if they were required to
expend large sums for storage purposes and then had no as-
surance that they would be licensed to continue in busi-
ness, or if so, what amount of petroleum products they
would be permitted to sell. He said that the Foreign
Office was constantly bringing up this point for con-
sideration and he hoped that something could be done to
ease the situation. He said that of course Japan had to
import oil and probably would import it in increasing
quantities. For that reason it was desirable that the
process be not too complicated.
E.L.N.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
to uespatch
 1001 of octbea 51934 from the
COPY
.kvo.
September 28, 1934.
His Excellency
Machida Chuji,
Minister of Commerce and Industry,
Tokyo
Your Excellency,
In accordance with Articles 4 and 6 of the
Regulations for the enforcement of the Oil Industry
Law dated June 27th, 1934, and having relation to the
Petroleum Control Law, we are submitting herewith a
Plan of Undertaking for the year 1935, but regret
that we are not in a position at present to furnish the
information in respect to Improvement of Storage
Facilities, Imports and Stocks as called for by Items
2 and 3 and in Items 4 and 5 of Departmental Form 4.
We, therefore, respectfully beg leave to request
Your Excellency to allow us to postpcne submitting the
foregoing information for the reason that the points
above mentioned are now the subject of discussions con-
cerning which we believe Your Excellency's Department
is aware.
We are,
Your Excellency's most obedient servants,
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY,
(S'D) J. C. GOOLD
General Manager
JCG:FR
Attachment

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
tre No
to despatch
No 1001 of octobers,1934 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
COPY
October 3, 1934
His Excellency
Machida Chuji,
Minister of Commerce & Industry,
T o k y o
Your Excellency,
On September 18th, Mr. Yoshino was kind enough to
tell Mr. Tsuchiya of our Company that he understood we
were dissatisfied with the gasoline sales quota of 96,000
kilolftres assigned to us by the Government for the last
half of 1934 as stipulated in letters received from the
Commerce Department dated August 20th 9-Ko No. 920 and
September 26th 9-Ko Ko No. 766, and added that if our
Company considered it had reasonable grounds for dissatis-
faction, the Government would have no objection to our
frankly bringing our viewpoint to their attention.
In consequence, we summarize below the principal
reasons for our dissatisfaction. Although some of the
points have already been brought to the attention of the
Government in our letters to Your Excellency of August
24th, August 31st, September 7th, and September 13th,
they are repeated herein for easy reference.
Basic Period Used by Shokosho
In arriving at the quota assigned to our Company,
(as mentioned in our letter of August 3lst), the Govern-
ment informed representatives of the foreign oil companies
at an interview at the Shokosho on August 30th, that they
had used as a basis the Seven Company Gasoline Cartel
period of June, July, August 1934. The reasons given
by the Shohosho for adopting this basis were briefly as
follows. That although they originally had intended to
base sales quotas for the last half of 1934 on the actual
trade results of the first six months of 1934, they had
finally decided to use the sales quotas allotted under
the Seven Party Cartel; First because sales during the
months of June, July and August (i.e. the period of the
Seven Party Cartel) would be more indicative of present
consumption, and Second because these quotas had been
agreed to by the seven companies prior to the enforcement
of the Control Law.
We

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
We do not consider it equitable or consistent to have
used the foregoing basis for the following reasons:
1. When the representatives of the Six Party Cartel
called at the Shokosho on May 31st, 1934, in response to
an invitation from Dr. Matsumoto, the foilowing transpired:
"The Conference Companies explained that
one of the difficulties in arriving at
acceptable quotas for a short period was
the fact that the Russians - in the hope
of securing an even larger quota when the
Law came into effect - were trying to obtain
now an abnormally large quota for the three
months temporary arrangement. It was there-
fore suggested in order to make it easier
to come to an arrangement with the Russians,
that the Department of Commerce and Industry
might be willing to decide now that when
fixing import licenses under the Control Law,
they would ignore entirely the quotas assigned
to the seven companies during any three months
agreement that might be concluded. Dr.
Matsumoto agreed to this latter suggestion,
stating that the Russians might be told that
this represented the formal decision of the
Government."
Notwithstanding this assurance which was conveyed
to the Russians and notwithstanding the fact that our
Company voluntarily restricted its sales during June, July,
and August in order to fall in line with the wishes of the
Government to stabilize the market and make effective more
normal selling prices for gasoline, the Shokosho not only
ignored but actually (as far as the foreign oil companies
are concerned) used this Seven Party Agreement period as
a basis for assigning quotas for the last half of 1934
which has worked out very much to the disadvantage of our
Company. The foregoing understanding may be confirmed
by reference to our letter to Dr. Matsumoto dated June lst,
1934, to which was attached Minutes of the Meeting of
May 3lst, from which the above quotation is extracted.
From the foregoing it is obvious, therefore, that the
quotas assigned to us under the Seven Party Agreement for
June, July, August 1934 do not represent an accurate cross
section of our business nor our normal rate of trade.
2. In the letter from the Shokosho dated August 20th,
9-Ko No. 920, when stating the reason for assigning us a
quota of 96,Oo0 kilolitres, it was explained that they
"considered this figure proper in view of our actual
sales prior to the enforcement of the Petroleum Industry
Controi Law and of the actual demand for gasoline in Japan".
However, our sales for the three months prior to the en-
forcement of the Control Law, i.e. during April, May and
June

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
June, - as well as for the three months prior to the
Seven Party Agreement, i.e. March, April and May - were
in each instance greater than the quotas for the three
months of the Seven Party Agreement, 1.e. June, July and
August, 1934, which were used by the Shokosho. There-
fore, it is obvious that the quota assigned to us not
only does not represent our rate of trade prior to the
enforcement of the Control Law, but also does not permit
us to share in the natural increase in consumption.
This, notwithstanding the very definite assurances from
the Minister of Commerce and others in answer to our
letter to His Excellency dated February 12th, 1934, that
we need have no cause for anxiety regarding the effect
upon our business of the Petroleum Industry Control Law,
the enactment of which was then under consideration.
Basic Sales Figures Used by Shokosho
When we inquired in our letter of August 24th,
concerning the mathematical basis used in arriving at our
gasoline sales quota of 96,000 kilolitres, representatives
of the foreign oil companies, in response to an invitation
to call on the Shokosho, were told that the Government
had used as a basis the Seven Company Cartel quotas for
June, July and August, and that to arrive at our quota
for the last half of i934 had converted these quotas to
kilolitres.and doubled the result, rounded off to the
nearest 1,Oo0 kilolitres. However, as explained in our
letter of August 3lst, 1934, to Your Excellency, had the
quotas actually assigned to us by the Conference been
used, we would have been entitled to sell during the last
six months of 1934, 97,030 kilolitres as the figures
below will illustrate:
Official Quotas,
Converted to
actually assigned
Kilolitres at
by Conference,
264.17 gallons
expressed in
per
9-1/2 Gallon Units
kilolitre
June.
444,041. 15,969
July.
464,663.........
16,710
August.
440.363....
15.836
kilo-
To t a l....
1.349,067
48.515 X 2 = 97.030 11tres
The comments we desire to make in regard to the basic
figures used by the Government are as follows:
1. As shown above, the basis used by the
Shokosho results in our being penalized 1,030
kilolitres as compared with what we were en-
titled to,had the official Conference quotas
been used. This, notwithstanding the fact
that

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
that as explained hereinbefore, our sales
during this period were restricted to con-
siderably below our normal volume.
2. Inasmuch as the Shokosho decided to
use a three months period as a basis for
arriving at sales quotas for the Foreign Oil
Companies, it would in our opinion have been
more consistent and equitable, particularly in
view of Dr. Matsumoto's previous assurances
referred to in Page 2, to have taken the sales
for the three months immediately preceding the
Seven Party Agreement, 1.e. March, April and
May 1934. Had this been done, and leaving
entirely out of account any adjustment of our
quota to permit us to share in the natural
increase, our quota in kilolitres would have
been as follows:
SALES
Converted to
Kilolitres at
9-1/2 gallon
264.17 gallons
units.
per kilolitre.
March....457,002
16,435
Apr11....458,641
16,493
May......457.640
16.458
Total..1.373.283
49.386 x 2 = 98.772 k11olitres.
3. We were informed by the Shokosho that
the figures they used were obtained from two
Japanese Oil companies in the Cartel. We do
not understand why our figures were not
requested officially from the Cartel itself
or obtained direct from our Company either
of which methods would have insured accuracy.
4. The net result is that we have been
deprived not only of any participation in the
growing gasoline trade, made available by the
natural increase in consumption, which has been
assigned entirely to the Japanese as well as a
semi-Japanese company, but our business has
actually been cut below our average monthly
rate of trade during the past six months. The
situation in which we find ourselves is further
aggravated by the fact that we were not notified
by the Government of our reduced allotment for
the last half of 1934 until we received from
the Shokosho, letter 9-Ko No. 920 dated
August 20th.' In consequence, greater sales
restrictions, in order to adjust our position,
would

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
would have to be concentrated in the relatively
short period of four months, viz: September to
December 1934. This is already causing concern
to Mitsui as well as to our Japanese selling
agents, the livelihood of many of the latter
being dependent upon their business connection
with us.
5. We believe it will be difficult, if not
impossible, for some of the companies to deliver
the quotas allotted to them by the Government.
Furthermore, we desire to point out that experience
shows that if any one company attempts to in-
crease its business too rapidly, as the Japanese
Companies will have to do if they sell their
greatly increased quotas, selling prices in-
variably weaken and an unstable market situation
develops. This is what is happening today.
Summary
Summarized briefly, the principal grounds for our
dissatisfaction are as follows:
A.
Our gasoline business has been reduced to a
level below that at which we were trading
before the enforcement of the Control Law.
B.
We have not been allowed to continue to par-
ticipate in the growing business resulting from
the natural increase in gasoline consumption.
C.
By falling in line with the wishes of the
Government to reach an agreement with Matsukata
(to accomplish which our Company was primarily
instrumental) and voluntarily restricting our
business for June, July and August 1934, our
trade has been penalized for the last half of
1934, notwithstanding prior assurances from the
Government to the contrary and also assurances
from the Government that we had no cause for
fear in regard to the administration of the
Petroleum Control Law.
D.
We consider the basis used by the Government in
arriving at our quota was inequitable first
because of the period used and second because
the quotas used by the Government did not
represent our actual trade during the period
used, whereas, had our actual rate of trade
prior to the Seven Party Agreement been used
as a basis, our quota would have been about
3,000 kilolitres larger.
E

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
E.
The reduced quota allotted us has caused great
concern to our New York Office and to Mitsui
as well as to our entire Japanese selling
organization.
Conclusion
We frankly feel that due consideration should be
given to the facts herein recited, all of which can be
substantiated. In view of the very serious and far-
reaching effect on our business and upon our Japanese
selling organization which the restriction imposed on our
gasoline trade is having, we desire once again to formally
ask for reconsideration and adjustment in our position.
While in no way seeking to question the authority of the
Government under the Law to fix whatever business plans
it deems fit, at the same time we wish to express the hope
that we may be accorded treatment in line with the known
desire of the Japanese Government to administer the
Petroleum Control Law justly and impartially. It is
our firm belief that our Company, which has been in
business in Japan for over forty years, will be accorded
such treatment, when the facts are clearly recognized,
that has impelled us to again bring our point of view
to Your Excellency's attention.
We are, with all respect,
Your Excellency's most obedient servants,
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY,
Representative.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.90)
ZE
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEWYORK
October 23rd, 1934.
FE-894.6363
you
Ach'd.
84
云
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
4
Washington, D. C.
894.6363/102
yeers
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
We believe the attached, which repre-
sent duplicate copies of Yokohama's telegram to us of today,
may be of possible interest in connection with the situation
in Japan.
Yours very truly,
Kermn f. Gor
Kersey F. Coe.
KFC:M
ATTACHS.(2).

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
INCOMINGCABLEGRAM
WYORK
DATE
00T 28/34
Embassy eabled Washington, D.C. Oct. 22nd explaining critical position of
forein oil companies referred to in our telegram Oct. l9th suggesting it
might be advisable for American Government (to) take any further step-s con-
templated before Committee meets and also refer to their despatoh Oct. 5th
STop Pending further instruotions from Washington, D.C. Embassy feels nothing
more can be accomplished at this end and as whole issue is approaching crisis
we will (woula) appreciate your views STor Friends and British Embassy endorse
opinion last paragraph our telegram of Oot. l9th and are telegraphing London
accordingly SToP Dutah legation has been informed STOP Peiping cabled State De-
partment Oot. 2lst that representative-s (of) friends and ourselves had been
verbally informed by authorities at Hsin King Oot. 20th that plans to form
monopoly in Manchuria would not be abandoned SToP We will telegraph further
regarding monopoly situation in a few days.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
(Rem)
October 31 1984
dear Mr. Gee:
The reseipt is aekmewledged with thanks of your
lester of Oeteber 23, 1934, and of the copy, attached
therete, of a eable under date Ootober 23 from your
894.6363/102
Yekskame effice in rogard to the Japanese Petroloum
Industry Law.
Your ceopsratiom in keeping the Department fully
informed in regard to the oil situation in Manehuria as
well as in Japan is appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
m.m.H.
Marwell M. Hamilton,
Acting Chief,
Division of Far Dastern Affairs.
Mr. Kersey F. Coo,
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
A true cony of
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
m. m. H.
Oot. 31 1934 Pl
10/31/34

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.79)
HTEL.OV
#265-5-H-258
31
RECEIVED
JAPAN.
OCT 10 1934
CONFID NTIAL
ARAFFAIRS
ROVE NM NT OIL TOLICY.
1134
1. uring tne Last sesaion of the let there ns eneoted
an oil industry law, subse ently elabor ted by re ulations
for ite acministration n enforoement, vhioh continues to
cause great concorn to fore1 n il companies doin business
in Japan end hiah 1s n s1 ni ioant itions! erense and
8
economie measure.
6
he provisions f ts oi  stry law ane the im lemont-
ing regulations place the oii in ustry of the Japunese mptr
under strict uvernment direction und upervi ion by provid-
59
ing for off oial determinati  f pil rices, oil recorves
6
to be maintained by riv te com niea  e reve tion to
the overnment of the ont i t1  te detoi f  slneas d-
mint tr tion no m mufoet rin: inst 1l ti  thods.
he re uirement h t e i er iut:in in oond  six
O
thsup1iei
 de oils,
3
baed on his u 1 med t, in ition t ut orm
lly re uiredit,
acorelm
oil men to foroe cm
ve t
11 10s,t
Least e1 pt onths onl
():)
et
he six
conths tor e re roont
0t
inore sed.
enin
1e
1:  8 eP1e 11y
C
t
the gove ament a in
01
100
11
by rix1 he 1ce f 
et
o te ve1
shet i orted t
1.
Loo.1
4
t0s 15
the
1o€
111
lo ed to in 1
re t
expense (td .
 ry
tanku e
1x mont
n1
15
OK
0018f
168
11
ate re o: veotre
n the protecti
ort1x
toe re
vet it
is bvem
v ien
rirst e ti
it
11
fniled
e ex ceted
vy
had its i1
IN
es.
/.okyo.
Roport.7469.
0/1/

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.86)
tor. and epparently after being prompted, he inistor of
me Navy came out as favoring the bill. lecords f hearings
on the hill also show that, appreciating the vomparative
insignirioanoe to fore in oil ompunies of the Tapen trade,
the Minister of ommeroe n ndustry thou ht t se compen-
ios would continue to sell gasoline at a oa in Japan in
view of the profite mnde eleew re.
6. The popular appoal of the oil ogi ntion is le to
1ts efroctiveness s  n tionel deren e e re - fr ioient
justifioation for ul t nythin theee  ye - but there is
11ttio doubt that ite introluction by he overnment nd en-
actment are in line ith normn! Japane:e eo nomic develop-
pont. he pres nee f forei n firims nd indivi uols is tol-
erated until 1t i folt thrt their servioes oun e i peneed
with nd their funotions pe for d satisf torily oy pno
ornitionshen easurs eten to e it  un
profitable for the forei ner th t e ithdr we.
7. ttent1on 1s 1 vited o oport. 957, buasy f
the United States of merloa, 0 yo, eptember , 1934, and
previous reparts for he otails of he 11i ion nd
regultione and their conse enoes.
ouro: orricil zeto n r i i viunls.
Dirne
Jo,ner1 tnff
1 tri) tion
ID
1ie
eport No. 7469.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
aD
DEPARTMENTEARRSTATS
0CT 29 1934
195 0T 2 M 9 03
Conversation.
October 24, 1934.
74.6363
Standard Oil Company of Now
Jersey.
OCT 2 5 1934
Mr. Hornbeok.
WESTERN EHROPEAN AFF
L.. S UF
Related Developments and Problems
894.6363/104
RECEIVED
T2 1934
Reference, Tokyo's telegram 232, October 22, 5 p.m.;
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
Tokyo's mail despatch lo0l, October 5, entitled "American
Oil Interests in Japan"; and Peiping's telegram 478,
October 21, 6 p.m.
Mr. Teagle called by appointment. Mr. Hornbeck said
that he was very glad to see Mr. Teagle, as we have just
received information regarding new developments -- discourag-
ing information -- with regard to, first, the Japanese
petroleum law and, second, the projeoted petroleum monopoly
1n Manohuria. Mr. Teagle replied that he also had received,
last evening, from New York, a substantial amount of new
information and that his Mr. Parker was sending what they
had to the Department. Mr. Teagle took from his pocket a
file which he said he supposed contained the same informa-
tion that we had.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Mr. Hornbeok then said that it was evident that the
Japanese authorities are planning to go ahead regardless
of the representations which the interested oil companies
and the governments concerned have made. He reoalled the
prediction which had been made on the occasion of the
first call of Mr. Teagle and Sir Henri Deterding at the
-4
Department in connection with this matter, that representa-
tions would be of little avail unless it was made evident
to the Japanese that disregard of the representations would
be likely to result in embarrassment to the Japanese in some
concrete form. He said that the demands which the Japanese
Government has made for early compliance by the foreign
petroleum companies with provisions of the law and the
regulations apparently makes it clear that the companies
must decide at an early date upon the course of action
which they will tell the Japanese Government they intend
to follow. He said that we had a memorandum prepared by
an officer of the Embassy in Tokyo -- which we might
conjecture was based in part at least upon a brief supplied
by the general manager for Japan of the Standard Vacuum
Oil Company -- in which it is pointed out that in relation
to supplies of crude oil Japan is very vulnerable; that
the major portion of the petroleum and petroleum products
now imported into Japan is of American origin; and that
"There would seem to be no reason why an American raw
material should be supplied in unlimited quantities to
assist

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
assist in closing the market to American finished
produots."
There ensued some discussion of commercial factors,
in the course of which Mr. Teagle referred to the sug-
gestion which he had originally made to the Department
that the American Government take steps toward regulating
(restricting or embargoing) exports of oil from the United
States to Japan. Mr. Hornbeck said that, speaking un-
officially and purely on the basis of a personal impression,
he doubted very much whether it could be expected that the
Government would take steps in that direction. He said
that he had studied the utteranoes and the acts of the
highest officers of the Administration and that it was
his impression that the thought of those officers did not
run in that direction; he might be mistaken, he was speak-
ing not on the basis of any decision of which he had
knowledge or of anything said to him but on the basis of
an impression; he felt that this subject was one with
regard to which it would be well for Mr. Teagle to talk
with the highest authorities; in fact, he felt that the
whole problem under discussion should be taken up by
Mr. Teagle with the Under Secretary or the Secretary of
State -- the problems involved being problems of very
substantial importance both to the American oil interests
involved and the various governments concerned. Mr. Teagle
said

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
said that he concurred in the view that the matter should
be treated as one of unusual importance and that he would
expeot to discuss it with higher officers, but that at
this moment the highest officer of the Standard Vacuum
Company is in London and is waiting to confer with Sir Henri
Deterding at a meeting which will take place probably early
next week; he, Mr. Teagle, therefore would not be in posi-
tion to do anything until after that conference. Mr.
Hornbeck said that he was glad to hear that such a conference
was scheduled to occur, and that it seemed to him that the
oil interests should decide upon a course of action for
themselves which would not be contingent upon further
governmental action: that is, that they should decide
whether they intend to comply with the Japanese law and
regulations or to tell the Japanese that they cannot and
will not comply therewith. Mr. Teagle inquired what would
be the result of non-compliance. Mr. Hornbeok replied that
it would probably depend in considerable measure on the
manner in which the petroleum interests handled the matter
in giving notice of such intent -- and on the manner in
which they "followed up"; it might be that the Japanese
would offer some kind of a compromise; it might be that
they would endeavor to buy the equipment which the companies
have in Japan and thereafter to handle petroleum business
in Japan themselves. Mr. Teagle asked what there was to
prevent

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
-5 -
prevent an automatio confiscation by the Japanese Govern-
ment of this equipment. Mr. Hornbeok said that he did
not believe that that question need arise: if it became
clearly evident to the Japanese that the companies were
prepared to refuse to do business on the conditions thus
far laid down by the Japanese and also evident that, in
the event of their being frozen out of Japan, the companies
would exert themselves toward drying up the sources of
petroleum imports to Japan and to Manchuria, the Japanese
would probably think very seriously before taking the
responsibility of creating such an impasse. Mr. Teagle
then referred to the difficulty of bringing independent
oil producers into line. Mr. Hornbeck said that he
realized that this was a very real problem and he felt
it was one to which the industry should address its best
thought and effort.
At this point Mr. Hornbeck asked that he be permitted
to introduce Mr. Mackay -- and Mr. Maokay was called in.
Mr. Hornbeok informed Mr. Mackay that he had suggested to
Mr. Teagle that the oil companies come to a decision with
regard to the course of action which they would pursue
vis-à-vis the Japanese authorities; he said that he had
by implication suggested that the companies prepare for a
contest; that he believed that the Japanese Government,
if it saw that the great producers of petroleum were pre-
pared

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
- 6-
pared to exert themselves toward refusal to supply orude
petroleum to Japan and that the governments concerned
were at least sympathetically disposed toward that effort,
would hesitate to force the issue. Mr. Mackay indicated
concurrence in that view. Mr. Teagle then said that we
might all await with interest the report which would be
made to him sometime next week of the conference scheduled
to be held in London to which he had earlier referred.
Mr. Hornbeck said that we would all continue to give the
question our thought. The conversation there ended.
FB:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 1, 1934.
MSTConeur.  he.
11s
To
Tokyo's telegram No. 24l of
November 1, 6 p.m., makes available to
the Department the substance of an in-
formal memorandum from the Foreign Of-
fice in reply to the Embassy's oral
representations of September 25 in re-
gard to the Japanese Petroleum Industry
Law (see Department's telegram No. 162
of September 21, 8 p.m.). As "similar
memoranda' were received by the British
Embassy and the Dutoh Legation it would
appear that the Japanese Government has
in this manner replied to the various
representations made to it by the three
prinoipally interested governments.
The memorandum of the Foreign
Office would appear to state more
clearly and conoisely than hitherto the
views of the Japanese Government in re-
gard to certain phases of the question
under discussion. It does not, however,
appear to contain any concessions of
importance to the foreign oil companies
and it is significant that no mention
whatever is made of the all-important
requirement

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
requirement of the Law in regard to addi-
tional oil storage. To be sure, assur-
anoe is given that the quotas of the
foreign oil companies will not be cur-
tailed below the limits of their business
prior to the enforcement of the Law but
this holds true only as long as the de-
mand for petroleum products in Japan con-
tinues to inorease.
Another item savoring of a concession
is the statement that the Government has
no intention of taking over at other than
market prices oil owned by the foreign
companies. In the same breath, however,
the Government reserves the right to con-
trol prices if the public interest demands.
It is believed that the representa-
tives in Tokyo of the American, British
and Dutch Governments will immediately ac-
quaint the concerned oil companies with
the views of the Japanese Government as
contained in the memorandum under refer-
ence and that the companies will, without
delay, relay the information to their
respeotive head offices together with
interpretive and suggestive comment. Thus
for the present it is suggested that no
action be taken by the Department in regard
to Tokyo's telegram under reference.
a
RCM:EJL

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
ylo
1-1806
MCG
CORRECTEROMOPY
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated Novorber 1, 1934
Rec'd 8:15 a.m.
Seoretary of State,
1013
Washington.
894.6363/105
Department's 162, September21, 8 p.m.
One. U ndor date of Octcber 31, 1934, the Foreign
Office transmitted to this Enbassy an informal momo-
randum in reply to our oral representations. The
substance of the memorandun is as follows:
Two. The preamble disclaims any intention of
disturbing the security of those enguged in the oil
industry in Japan.
Three. Numbered paragraph one stat es that the
reason for the yearly license is the regulation of the
importation, production and sale of oil in order to
achiove harmony in the industry. As long as the demand
for petroleum products in Japan continues to increase,
JLED
tho quotas of the oil companies will not be restricted
below the limits of their business before the en-
forcement of the petroleum industry law.
Four.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2.
MCG
#241 from Tokyo
Four, Numbered paragrap two stutes that in
allotting inoreased quotas the intention is to have
as much refining done in the country as possible and
to give the importors only such part of increase as
cannot be handled by the domestic refiners.
Five. Numbered paragraph three states that the
petroleum committee will grant'permits for refining
after taking into consideration the condition of supply
and demand, the circumstances of the existing refiners,
et cetera. Importers of gasoline who wish to engage
in refining in Japan may import crude oil in place of
refined products. Permission will generally speaking
be easily granted, especially if the company concernod
has not less (repeat not less) than half Japanese capital.
Six. Numbered paragraph four states that the gov-
ernment has no intention of taking over at other than
market prices ol owned by the companies. It also has
no intention of interfering arbitrarily with the market
prices of petroleum products but reserves the right to
control prices if the public interest domands.
Seven, There is no mention in the memorandum of
the six months' stock holding requirements.
Eight. Similar memoranda have been roceived by the
British Embassy and the Dutch Legation. Text by mail.
GREW
WSB

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
GRAY
TELEGRAM REOEIVED
TOKYO
Dated Novem ber 1, 1934,
1—1806
Recd. 8:15 a m
1 193
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
1.1934
Washington.
Departvent of State
241, Novembr 1, 3 p m.
894.6363/105
76
894.6313
Department's 162, September 21, 8 p m.
One. Under date of October 31, 1934, the Foreign
Office transmitted to this Embassy an informal memorandum in
reply to our oral representations. The substance of the mem-
orandum s as follows:
Two. The preamble disclaims any intention of disturb-
ing the security of those engaged in the oil industry in
Japan.
Three. Numbered paragraph one states that the reason
for the yearly license is the regulation of the importation,
production and sale of oil in order o achieve harmony in
the industry. As long as the demand for petroleum products
in Japan continu to increase, the quotas of the oil compan-
1es will not be restricted below the limits of their business
before the enforcement of the potroleum industry law.
Four. Numbered pa ragraph two states that in allott-
ing increased quotas the intention is to have as much refin-
ing dono in the country as possiblo and to give the impor-
ters
7

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
41 - Tokyo, page 2
ers only such part of increase as cannot be handled by the
domestic rofiners.
Five. Numbered paragraph three states that the petro-
loum conmitteo will grant permits for refining after taking
into consideration the condition of supply and demand, the
circumstances of the existing rcfiners, et cetera. Importers
of gasoline who wish to engage in refining in Japan may im-
port crude oil in place of refined products. Permission will
gonerally speaking be casily granted, especially if the com-
ot less
ely
pany co ncerned has (more)than half Japancse capital.
Six. Numbered paragraph four states that the government
has no intontion of taking ovor at othor than market pricos
oil owned by the comnanios. It also has no intention of in-
terfering arbitrarily with thc market prices of potroleum
products but reserves the right to control prices if tho pub-
lic intcrest demands.
Seven. There is no mention in the memorandum of the six
months' stock holding roquiremonts.
Eight. Similar momoranda have been received by the
British Embassy and thc Dutch Legation. Text by mail.
G R E W
wsb

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.96)
26 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
P. W. PARKER
Nov 5 1934
November 2, 1934.
LIVEIBN UF
acke
t
4.6363
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Chief of Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
N1934
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
Department of State
veay
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Referring to our telephone conversation just before
your departure from New York, I give below the substance of cable
of November 2nd from Mr. J. C. Goold, which I hurriedly endeavor-
ed to give you over the telephone.
Not having gone through the
894.6363/106
cable before, I am afraid I left a somewhat confusing impression
with you.
I quote from it as follows:
"Substance of State Department cable November 1st to
Embassy, of which we assume that you have knowledge,
has been conveyed to us - STOP
*****
Embassy received answer to September 25th representa-
tions on November lst summary of which has been tele-
graphed to State Department. Understand other Em-
bassies concerned have received idential reply - STOP
We will telegraph essential points as soon as trans-
lation available - STOP We are informed reply con-
tains no direct reference to stock holding but ex-
presses the hope that the foreign companies will be
advised to comply with all regulations of the law -
> STOP We understand reply is generally unsatisfactory
and contains little not already advised us unofficially".
If you are in position to advise me concerning the
State Department cable of November lst to Tokyo Embassy mentioned,
I shall appreciate it.
I anticipate that either Mr. Teagle or
I will get in touch with you Monday or Tuesday of next week.
Thanking you for your cooperation,
Sincerely yours
P. fark
PWP:H
UED

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
FE/
/RCM
NOV 5 1934
Dear Mr. Parker:
I asknomledge reseipt of your letter of November 2
894.6363/106
and I thank you for your sourtesy in giving us the quota-
tiem from the telegram whieh you had received from Mr.
Goold, of November 2, concerning whioh you had spoken to
With regard to the Department's telegram to the Tokyo
Emhassy of November 1, concerning which you inquire in the
eomeluding paragraph of your letter under reference, I
confirm what I hed given you orally, that the Department
said to the Embassy that we had not up to that date been
given indication that the interested companies had come
to any definite understanding among themselves with regard
to a course of aotion and that, with regard to the sugges-
tion which had been made to us that the governments con-
cerned aot in concert or simultaneously, we were still
awaiting an initiative from London.
Yours sinoerely,
Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
▲ true copy of
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
the signed orig-
inal.
Mr. P. W. Parker,
FE/3m
Standard Vacuwn Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.
WE:SKH/ZMK
FE
11/5/34

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.81)
FE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
mc
区-6-4
UNK Prienp
womed wicth t m
thi - upisel
I conmusation.
SKCH
Todutn

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 6, 1934.
Retu.. 7. Rcm
Tokyo's despatch No. 1017,
dated 0ctober 19, 1?34:
There is little here that is
new, but I believe it important
to read through for "background"
of the official Japanese attitude
on the oil question.
MUS/DLY

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 19, 1934.
No. 1017.
Subject:
American Oil Interests in Japan.
CF S1ATTE
93  1 12
COUNICATIONS
DS
AO SOS O
RECEVE
6
yile
894.6363/101
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
A
Department of Spate
897.6363
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
101
No. 1001, dated October 5, 1934, and to previous corres-
pondence on the subject of American oil interests in Japan
and their difficulties under the new Petroleum Industry
Law.
Representations.
FIHED
As reported in the Embassy's telegram No. 222, Ootobe
10, noon, the British Ambassador to Japan called at the
Foreign Office on October 5, 1934, and made renewed re-
presentations on behalf of the British oil interests op-
erating

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
erating in Japan. The Ambassador left with the Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs an aide memoire, expressing
the "hope that it will be found possible to direct or
modify the operation of the Law in such a way as to re-
lieve them (the British oil interests) of hardships
which it threatens to impose". A copy of the aide me-
1/
moire referred to is enclosed herewith.
The Embassy has been informe that a written reply
to the British representations is being prepared by the
Foreign Office. An oral reply to the American oral re-
presentations will prob bly be made at the same time
that the reply to the British representations is delivered.
Oil Storage Requirements.
As was stated in the Embassy's despatch No. 100l, of
October 5, 1934, the two foreign oil companies did not
comply with the requirements that by September 30, 1934,
they file with the Minister for Commerce and Industry
their sales, storage and import plans for the year 1935.
They submitted their sales plans only, requesting a post-
ponement of the time for filing their import and storage
plans, on the ground that these matters were the subject
of discussion. The Department of Commerce and Industry,
however, has refused to grant an extension of the time for
filing these plans and under date of October 13, 1934,
demanded the submission of the complete business plan. I
21
enclose herewith a translation of the letter which that
Department sent to the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company. A
similar letter was sent to the Rising Sun Petroleum Com-
pany (British).
The

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
The Standard-Vacuum Oil Company is therefore placed
in a most difficult position. Refusal to comply with the
demand of the Department of Commerce and Industry renders
the Company subject to cancelation of its license to oper-
ate in Japan and to a fine of Yen 30o0. At the same time
it cannot submit storage and import plans, as to do so
would commit it to the fulfillment of plans which the
Company cannot see its way (at present, at least) to carry
out.
Mr. Dickover, of the staff of the Embassy, therefore
called upon Mr. Kurusu, the Chief of the Bureau of Com-
mercial Affairs of the Foreign Office, on October 18, 1934,
in an attempt to discover the official view of the probable
fat of the foreign oil companies should they continue to
avoid complying with the stock-holding provisions of the
Petroleum Industry Law. Mr. Kurusu, unfortunately, was
unable or unwilling to throw much light on the subject. A
memorandum of the conversation between Mr. Dickover and Mr.
31
Kurusu is enclosed herewith.
It would seem that the only course remaining to the
foreign oil interests in Japan is to avoid submitting
the storage and import plans demanded by the Department of
Commerce and Industry. It will then be necessary for the
Japanese Government to take the next step. If that step
is adverse to the American and British oil interests in
Japan, perhaps the Department will be in a position to con-
sider the implementing of the suggestions contained in the
Strictly Confidential section of the Embassy's despatch
101
No. 1001,lof October 5, 1934, and in the Embassy's
telegram

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Manchnua/34
telegram No. 182, August 20, 3 p.m.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
1. Copy of British Aide Memoire.
2. Translation of Letter received by the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, dated Oc-
tober 13, 1934.
3. Memorandum of Conversation between Mr.
Dickover and Mr. Kurusu, October 18,1934.
863.6
ERD:g
Copy to Legation Peiping.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
C -O -P-X
o despaich
1017f 0.19,1934 from tbe
1   1kyo.
British Embassy,
Tokyo.
5th October, 1934.
Aide-Memoire
His Majesty's Ambasaador has the honour to refer to
his conversation with the Vice-Minister for Foreign
Affairs on July 26th concerning the anxiety felt by the
British petroleum interests operating in Japan as to their
future position under the Petroleum Industry Law.
His Majesty's Ambassador learns from the represent-
atives of those interests that, although they have on
more than one occasion been courteously received by the
competent authorities, they have not so far been able to
obtain assurances of a nature to relieve their anxiety or
information to enable them to reach a decision as to their
future business policy. Consequently they have found
themselves in the embarrassing position of being unable
fully to comply with provisions of the Law which require
them to furnish by a fixed date deteils of their plans for
the year 1935.
In these circumstances His Majesty's Ambassador begs
leave to enquire whether the Japanese Government have been
able to give consideration to the position of the British
petroleum interests as it is effected by the Petroleum
Industry Law and to express on behalf of His Majesty's
Government the hope that it will be found possible to
direct or modify the operation of that Law in such a way
as to relieve them of hardships which it threatens to
impose.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No 2
C - 0 - P - Y No 1017 : 0U. 19,1934 from the
to despatch
eev at Tokyo.
9 Ko-0tsu No. 5966
October 13th, 1934.
Mr. J. C. Goold,
Representative of Standard-Vacuum Oil Company.
You have submitted to us an application for Approval
of Your Company's Business Plan for l935 dated September
28th. However, the above application is imperfect;
hence you are requested to send in a report supplementary
to the above urgently.
T. Fukuda (S'd)
Chief of the Mining Bureau,
Department of Commerce
and Industry.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
Enciosure No 3
to despatch
No 1017of 00.19, 1934 from the
Tu hnssy at Tokyo.
Memorandum of Conversation between
Mr. Dickover and Mr. S. Kurusu, Chief
of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs,
Foreign Office, October 18, 1934.
I called on Mr. Kurusu at the Foreign Office at
12.15 p.m., and said that I ha not come to make any re-
presentations of any kind, but merely wanted to talk over
the oil situation with him. He said that he would be glad
to talk things over, and that the Foreign Office appreciated
very much the fact that the American Embass had not made
a formal diplomatic issue of the oil problem, but instead
had treated the matter orally and informally. I asked
if a reply would be given to our oral representations. He
said that, if one is desired, an oral reply will be made.
I said that I thought that we would appreciate a reply.
I then said that it seemed to me that the problem
of the position of the foreign oil companies in Japan had
reached a stalemate. The Minister for Commerce and Indus-
try had written the oil companies to send in their plans
for importing and storing oil, and for building storage
facilities, as was required by the new Petroleum Industry
Law. They had previously sent in their sales plans for
next year, but had purposely not filled in that part of the
form devoted to their storage and import plans, as to do
so would have committed them to fulfillment of those plans,
while they were not yet authorized by their head offices
to build tanks and store oil in Japan. I said that of
course I could not know what the oil companies would decide
to do in the future, but at present they certainly were not
inclined

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
inclined to invest further large sums in Japan, when
the future of their business here is so uncertain.
I asked him what was going to happen if the foreign oil
companies continued to refuse to comply with the stock-
holding provisions of the law.
Mr. Kurusu said that the matter was puzzling him
also. Several things might happen. One was to consider
a part of the existing storage facilities of the foreign
oil companies as devoted to oil storage in accordance with
the law, and to allot sales quotas to the companies in
that proportion. I said that that plan would cut the quo-
tas of the foreign oil companies by about two-thirds, which
would create a gasoline famine in Japan, as the Japanese
refineries were not yet equipped to handle all of the de-
mand. Mr. Kurusu agreed, and said that it would be im-
possible to allot the difference to the Japanese companies.
For example, he said, let us suppose that the Standard Oil
is selling 300, and some Japanese company 100. We can cut
the Standard Oil to 100, and give the difference of 200 to
the Japanese company, which would give it an allotment of
300. But the Japanese company is already having enough
trouble trying to finance its storage facilities for its
original l0o, and could not possibly arrange to store for
a sales quota of 300.
Another possibility was that the law might be modified.
He said that he imagined that the French and Spanish govern-
ments started out with some such proposition as the present
Japanese law, but found that it was unworkable and had to
modify

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
modify it. I pointed out that the French law was much
less objectionable, as it required only three months'
stocks, whic could include working stocks, while the
Japanese law required six months' stocks, in addition
to working stocks. Mr. Kurusu agreed, and said that he
did not think that the Japanese law was workable. He
said that he had told "those chaps" (presumably the of-
ficials of the Department of Commerce and Industry) that
their whole idea was a "pipe dream" and would not work,
but that they would not listen to him and had "put it
over".
And then, he said, there was the possibility that the
foreign oil companies might give it all up as a bad job
and quit Japan. But, he said, they could not very well
do that,as to do so would mean that they would lose most of
their present investments in Japan. I agreed, and said
that those investments amounted to a considerable sum,
over fifty million yen. Moreover, I said, their quitting
Japan would create a lot of trouble, as they employed, at
a guess, some twenty or thirty thousand people, who would
be thrown out of work. Also, I pointed out, their quitting
Japan would not remedy the situation as far as the law is
concerned, as no one is prepared to take up their business
and store the amount of oil which they are required to
store.
Mr. Kurusu then asked me if I thought it possible
that the foreign oil companies would consent eventually to
comply with the stock-holding requirements of the law. I
sa1d

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
said that I did not think it commercially feasible for
them to do so. If the Standard interests, for example,
invested ten million yen more in Japan, to provide storage
facilities and fill them with oil, they would have to make
an additional profit of five or six hundred thousand yen
annually to cover the interest on and amortization of
their investment. But they were prevented, under the law,
from making this additional profit, because they would not
be allowed to participate in the natural increase in the
demand for petroleum products, and they could not raise
their prices, which were fixed by the Government. Mr.
Kurusu agreed entirely, and said that he had been preach-
ing this to "those chaps" for months, but they knew nothing
of business and could not see the point.
I then said that, while the Japanese oil companies
might consider it a patriotic duty to carry large stocks
of oil at their owm expense for purposes of national de-
fense, the Japanese Government could hardly expect the
foreign oil companies to carry Japan's war-time reserves of
oil. Mr. Kurusu agreed, and said that, in his opinion,
it was up to the Government to pay for its own reserves
of oil and not to expect private concerns,Japanese or
foreign, to carry them at their own expense. But, he said,
in the long run it will be the public, and not the oil
companies, which will have to bear the burden. The oil
How,1
companies will have to raise their prices or go bankrupt,
the
if they have to store six months' supplies, and so eventually
2e5
the public will be compelled to pay for the storage. Then
pics
the
they

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
they will realize, said Mr. Kurusu, that "something had
been put over on them" and there will be trouble with
the bus companies and the taxi companies.
Mr. Kurusu then said that the law was a bad one all
around and was bound to create trouble, either internationally
or internally, if "those chaps" insisted on enforcing it.
I said that it appeared that he was unable to tell me
more about what was liable to happen to the foreign oil
companies than I already knew. Mr. Kurusu said that that
was the case. He then called up Mr. Yoshino, the Vice
Minister for Commerce and Industry, and asked him about the
latest developments. According to Mr. Kurusu, Mr. Yoshino
told him that he had explained the situation to Mr. Goold,
and that Mr. Goold had sent a long telegram to his head of-
fice. They were now waiting for a reply to this telegram.
I said that I had seen the telegram, but that I did not re-
member that it called for a reply.
E.R.D.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.96)
3O ROCKEFELLER PLAZA
NEW YORK
yle
W.C.TEAGLE
2
VIA AIRMAIL.
25th October 1934.
194.4:63
JAPAN.
894.6363/108
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Referring to our telophone conversation of a
few monents ago, the following is a paraphrase of the
oable rocoived this mornin from my associates in Lon-
don:
"We urge you eudeavor to induce United States
Government to join other two governments in
joint protest explaining they claim for their
nationals the right to receive from .apanese
Government a clearstatement of its intentions
and suggesting at same time a joint conforence
re resont tives of the tro oil companies to work
out mutually acoeptable sol: tion. This would
omphasize to Japanese Government unity three
governments as well as afford the former op-
portunity initiate negotiations. Other parties
have reason to bolieve that oti er two govorn-
ments will join in such threefold protest and
oven believe government here will take ini-
tiative by opening question with Anerioan
Ambassador here if he fools reasonably sure
Washington would be receptive. We feel this
procedure desirable if you believe United States
government oan be induced to participate."
Yesterday afternoon another cable was received,
dealing with the situation in Manohukuo, translation of
whioh is attached hereto.
I am planning to oall you on the 'phone tomor
row morning.
Yours vory truly,
wot-smm
enolosure

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
**SUBJROT TO OO MIBOPION
WALDEN
LONDON
G S WALDEN
NEW YORK
PAGE 1
OCT 24/34
(NEW JERSEY CODE)
For P W Parker:
Please advise latest developments Manchuria whioh would have direct bearing
situation Japan SToP Friends have received following telegram (from) Mukden
gor Manchuko government authorities interviewed (by) Wallace and Standard
Oil Co. of New York Vacuum Oil Company assistant manager yesterday are (is)
informed (that) government has decided definite policy (for) oil monopoly will
com into effect early part of next year on basis government will sell through
Manchuria Petroleum Co. total produotion gasoline Fushun plant total production
Dairen refinery STop Shortage total requirements Manchukuo will be purehased ex
Dairen or Newch Wang from the three foreign companies and Japanese light oil-s
importers on quota basis based on percentage of sales each party during last two
years STor Old brand-s will be abolished distribution in tins bearing monopoly
mark will be entirely in the hands of uPc utilizing our organization as it is

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.97)
*OSUBJEOT TO OORRBOTION
G S WALDEN
LONDON
G S WALDEN
NEW YORK
PAGE 2
OCT 24/34
neeessary STop Have been requested supply information not later than November
15th sales during last two years alse partioulars railway depot-s other minor
•quipmont *which (that) will be* purchased price-s to be arranged STor Monopoly
law net yet promulgated in my (our) opinion this is final effort bluff and if
no opposition received (by) november l5th will proceed on these lines therefore
I (we) consider strong protest earliest date possible I (we) send full report
by mail UNQUOTT Mukden message ends still quoting part of friends cable QUOTE
We shall now await Tokio Embassy-ies *opinion* whether figure-s according to
telegram Mukden requesting information not later than Nov. 15th sales during
last 2 years should be given STor It (this) is possible time now ripe to employ
publicity (of) London New York press if you agree may be able to arrange Times
correspondent-s here will telegraph London SToP Standard Oil Co. of New York
Vacuum Oil Company requesting Yokohama seek New York *opinion* this point
UNQUOTE Friends message ends.
G SWALDEN.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Jode
Conversation.
October 26, 1934.
Mr. Walter C. Teagle, president,
Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey.
TAFFAIRS
894.6363
Mr. Hornbeck.
Sub ject:
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
894.6363/109
Related Developments and Problems.
Mr. Teagle called me on the telephone from New York
and inquired whether I had received his air mail letter
of October 25.
I replied that the letter had reached me this
morning. Mr. Teagle asked what it might be possible for
him to say to his associates in London. I said that
first of all that I would like to inquire what he thought
of the stories which had appeared in the press today and
yesterday. Mr. Teagle replied that he found them very
interesting and he wondered where the correspondents got
them. I said that as far as my knowledge went the first
stories had come from Tokyo. Mr. Teagle said that that
was his impression. I said that this seemed to be in
ED
line with the suggestion which the representatives of the
oil interests in Japan had made, namely, that there should
be publicity. Mr. Teagle replied: Yes. Mr. Teagle then
reverted
F/G

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
一 2 -
reverted to the original question: what might he say
(he said "telegraph) to his London associates. I suggested
that he might find it more expedient to telephone them than
to telegraph them. He replied that it would be simpler
for him to telegraph and that he was perfectly confident
of the inviolability of his codes. I then said that he
would remember and he might remind his associates that
we had taken the position at the time of Mr. Teagle's and
Sir Henri Deterding's call that we would be prepared to
consider sympathetically suggestions, if and when, which
might come to us from the British or the Netherland Govern-
ments for cooperative action; and that that was still our
attitude. Mr. Teagle then said: But what about a joint
protest. I replied that I thought the word "protest"
should be ruled out. Mr. Teagle hastily said that he
meant "representations". I replied that we would like
to see what the British Government might choose to suggest.
I added that I thought I should in all candor point out
that the matter would require little time for considera-
tion; Mr. Teagle and I had both been of the opinion in
the course of our conversation of October 24 that no
further action need be taken until Mr. Teagle had reported
to me next week on the conference which was to be held
between representatives of the oil interests in London
early nert week; that if Mr. Teagle's associates in London
told the British Foreign Office of our attitude, it would
probably

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
probably be a matter of some days before the Foreign
Office formulated an approaoh, if and when, to us on
the subjeot; that we did not want -- and we could assume
that the British Foreign Office would not want -- to
inject into relations with Japan at an inopportune moment
matters which might get in the way of the effort which is
being made at London in the preliminary naval conversations;
so, it should not be expected that the governments concerned
would rush precipitately into further action with regard to
the petroleum issues; and, it must be remembered, we had
taken action recently and we want to have some indication
of the position which the interested companies themselves
intend to take. Mr. Teagle said that he understood and
that he would forthwith inform his London associates of
our position. He added that he would call me on the
telephone early nert week. The conversation there ended.
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.96)
30 ROCKEFELLER PLAZA
NEW YORK
W.C.TEAGLE
26th Octobor 1934.
894.6363
t
PERSONAL A.D CONF D.NTIAL.
894.6
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Department of State,
3
Washington, D. C.
4
9
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
On my return here yesterday, after confer-
enoe with our partners in the Standard-Vaouum Company,
we sent  cable to the Chairman of the Standard-Vacuum
Com any, who is now in London, reading as follows:
"ihile here Deterding stated he was prepared to
withdraw entirely rather than to com ly with
new law. If this is their present view, then
we are di sposed to fuel that joint aotion by
both companies along these lines would result
in our being given an op ortunity to work out
some kind of a solution of the present problem
direot wi th government officials. The best
method of communicating suoh & joint decision
to the Japanese Government so that it could
not be incorrectly construed would be an im-
portant detail to be worked out with the three
govornments who would of course have to back
up the decision taken with a request for re-
muneration for the proporties taken over if
that should be the final result. We have not
discussed possi ble procedure along these lines
with our State Dopartment as we folt that this
was premature until you and our frionds in Lon-
don had reached some accord as to a definite
program. If it should be decided to make
joint representation to the government along
these lines then we feel that it might be very
F
desirable to offer them some compromise sugges-
tion which would be a faoe-saving measure."
G

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
Dr. Stanley E. Hernbeek(2)
26th October 1934.
Rather to our surprise, inasmuch as we under-
stood that Sir Henri was not expeoted back in London
until the early part of next week, we have late this
afternoon reoeived from our assooiate in London a roply
to this wire, whioh reads as follows:
"Have roceived your telegram rogarding Japan.
Foeling of friends here with which we agree
entirely is that presentation ultimatum Jap-
anese Government as to withdrawal two prinoipal
foreign companies is altogother pramature.
Friends here do not depart from the opinion
that withdrawal might become neoessary as a
last resort but they are strongly of the op-
inion this eventuality not likely to be reaohed
provided three governments co-operate and insist
upon Japanose Government ropresentatives meeting
roprosentatives of oil companies in an endeavor
to find a solution of the present impossible
situation. Wo would emphasise in our opinion jeint
governmental ropresentation noea not in this in-
stanoe go beyond emphasizing desirability of
Japanese Government meeting foreign companies
on a fair basis recognizing their pioneer work
in the petroleum industry throughout Japanese
Empire and requesting Japanese Govornment dele-
gate authoritative delogates to disouss jointly
with representatives of the tmo foreign companies
in order to find a mutually satisfaotory modus-
operandi. We ropeat very strongly that we have
every reason to believe that government here would
∞-operate fully and frankly wi th government your
end in giving effeot to this method of approaoh and
also we repeat very strongly question withdrawal
Japan market should not be put into program for
consideration at present time leaving this for
some future date when if everything else fails
it may be considered necessary to bring it up."
I will telephone you on lMonday morning to ob-
tain an informal expression of your viows and suggestions
as to the foregoing.
Yours very truly,
wot-smm

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FE
Conversation.
October 29, 1934.
Mr. Jalter C. Teagle, president,
,Sopay to Tahy "19144
Standard Oil Company of
gm
New Jersey.
1.1 Vi.
n of
894.6363
Mr. Hornbeck.
1934
Desartment of State
Subject:
Japanese Petroleun Monopoly and
894.6363
Related Developments and Problems.
Mr. Teagle called me on the telephone from New York
and inquired whether I had received his letter of Octo-
3
ber 26. I replied that I had the letter. ir. Teagle
asked what I thought of the situation, as developed in
the two telegrams quoted in that letter. I said that
(a) I had noted with particular interest the statement in
the telegram sent to the chairman of standard Vacuum which
reads: "While here Deterding stated that he was prepared
to withdraw entirely rather than to comply with new law";
and that (b) I felt that I might appropriately comment
briefly on the reply which Mr. Teagle had received.
I said that:
(a) So far as we know no one has suggested the presenta-
tion at this time of an "ultimatum" to the Japanese Govern-
ment as to withdrawal of the two principal foreign companies.
FLED
(b) What
F
G

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
(b) What we would like to know is what the oil companies
are willing or intend to do in ultimate analysis. The effort
which is being made represents an attempt at cooperation both
on the part of the companies and of the governments. The
formulating of various steps to be taken calls for some
estimate of later and possible final steps.
(c) We would probably be perfectly willing to join in
a request to the Japanese Government that it discuss the
matter with representatives of the oil companies. But, the
major interest in this matter is British-Dutch. The first
approach to us in the matter came from the British-Dutch
interest, in association with Mr. Teagle. The initiative
with regard to any proposal for joint or concurrent govern-
mental action should come from the British-Dutch governmental
side. He do not wish to chance being made use of by them
as an agency for pulling their chestnuts out of the fire with
the possibility that our own chestnuts will be pushed further
into and be left in the fire.
Mr. Teagle expressed assent to or concurrence in these
views.
I concluded with the suggestion that Mr. Teagle again
say to his correspondents in London that we are still wait-
ing for some approach from the British Government on this
subject, and that if such an approach is made we are prepared
to consider sympathetically such suggestions as that Govern-
ment may offer. Mr. Teagle said he would do so.
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.95)
山
好
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Conversations.
November 2, 1934.
with
Mr. Walter Teagle
Nr. B7. Parker
Capy to rikyo/1912.
yele
Mr. Kersey F. Coe
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1934
A
Mr. Hornbeck
Department of State
Subject:
Japanese Petroleun Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
89
94.6363
During attendance at the National Foreign Trade Con-
vention, I communicated with Mr. Teagle by telephone and
at his request called on him and talked over the latest
developments with re ard to the Japanese petroleum law
and the projected petroleum monopoly in Manchuria. Mr.
2
Teagle read to me cables which he had, subsequent to
our long-distance telephone conversation of November 29,
sent to his correspondents in London. He had informed
those oorrespondents that he felt it imperatively necessary
that the companies come to an understanding with regard
to a common program and that the American Government was
still awaiting an initiative from the British Government.
Mr. Teagle asked me whether I thought of anything else
FTED
that he should do. I replied that it seemed to me in the.
light of what he had just read to me that he had done ali
that he very well could until he had a reply from his
G
correspondents.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
correspondents. He said that he was expecting a reply
momentarily. Mr. Teagle then asked me for my opinion
with regard to the position which the companies should
ultimately take. I said that I thought that it would
not be appropriate for me to offer advice on such a
matter, but that I could say that I felt strongly that
the companies should come to a decision among themselves
with regard to a course or courses of action which they
would follow, given various contingencies and eventualities,
and should have their line of procedure at least tentatively
planned from beginning to end; also, that they should give
the various governments concerned an indication of their
plans and intentions in that connection.
On the following day, Mr. Teagle sent to talk with
me Mr. P. W. Parker. Mr. Parker said that they had not
yet received a reply from their London correspondents but
hoped to have a reply in the course of the day. He then
asked several questions and talked over various points
which had already been covered in conversations between Mr.
Teagle and myself. He said that the companies were now
thinking seriously of sending representatives to Tokyo,
of whom he would be one.
On the next day, November 2, Mr. Parker telephoned me
that he was sending Mr. Kersey F. Coe to me with a copy of
a telegram which Mr. Teagle had just received from London.
(A

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
(A oopy of this telegram is hereunder attached.) Mr. Coe
explained that Messrs. Agnew and Godber, referred to in
that telegram, are representatives of the Shell Company
and that Mr. G. S. Walden is the head of Socony Vaouum
(and is now in London). This telegram shows that it is
the intention of the companies to have their representa-
tives proceed to Japan for the purpose of conferring with
officials of the Japanese Government. Mr. Coe said that
Mr. Parker would go (and Mr. larker had told me on the
preceding day that if he went he would start on November 17).
Mr. Coe said that they had received a telegram from their
representative in Japan, Mr. Goold, saying that the sub-
stance of a telegram from the Department of State dated
November 1 to Tokyo had been imparted to Mr. Goold and
that Mr. Goold had reported that the Embassy had received
from the Japanese Government a reply to representations
made on September 25; also that other embassies had re-
ceived identical replies; and that these replies were
generally unsatisfactory. I told Mr. Coe, as I had on the
previous day told Mr. Parker, that the Department had in-
formed the Embassy on November 1 that we had not yet been
given any indication that the companies had arrived at a
community of view or plan and that we were still awaiting
an approach from the British Government. Mr. Coe said that
it was helpful for them to know this, as throwing light on
Mr. Goold's telegram.
工

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4-
I asked Mr. Coe to ask Mr. Teagle to keep us informed
as fully as he might wish and might consider appropriate
with regard to new developments; Mr. Coe said that he
would do so. He thanked me on behalf of Mr. Parker and
Mr. Teagle for the time which I had given to this matter
in conversations with them during the three days. And the
conversation there ended.
mm.N.
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
Handed to me by Mr. P. W. Parker
on behalf of Mr. Walter Teagle,
1n New York, November 2, 1934.
SKH
MEMORANDUM
We quote from cable received from Mr. O.C. Harden
to Messrs. Teagle and Brown:
"LONDON - November 1, 1934.
"We fully recognize negotiation Japanese Government must
be conducted by our own representatives  Stop However
so that Japanese may assume reasonable attitude and
give representatives of oil companies fair treatment,
feel it essential joint diplomatic representations
precede conference oil companies.
"Are working on principle of acceptable settlement which
should be completed next Monday.
"Agnew fully discussed matter with foreign office who
are working on problem and he expects definite informa-
tion early next week - Stop Holland also waiting on
British.
"Godber sailing SS: Ranchi November 16 for Singapore
due there December 7 prepared to continue to Japan
with authority to deal in matter.
"G. S. Walden sailing Conti Verdi November 9 arriving
Singapore November 27 and will proceed by same steamer
to Japan arriving December 5 - STOP Feel Parker should
plan to arrive about same time.
"Agnew strongly feels diplomatic action should not be
jeopardized by premature offer by companies He be-
lieves Japanese are endeavoring to drive wedge between
major foreign concerns and that joint diplomatic action
will destroy their hopes in this direction."
PWP:H

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.95)
(cm
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
RECEIVED
LIVISION OF
November 5th, 1934.
894.1313
November 8 1984
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Aus'd.
Department of State,
1934
Washing ton, D. C.
宏
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Detartrornut of State
894.6363/11
I very much regret that circumstances did not
permit of my mailing you last Friday a copy of the attached
telegram from Yokohama, dated November 2nd. However, we con-
sider there is nothing in it that requires particular action
and that it was sent simply to keep us advised of the latest
developments.
There are one or two points in the message which
perhaps require elaboration, namely, our representations to
the Minister of Commerce and Industry of August 3lst, were specific
3
in that we stated we were cofinitely opposed to the huge additional
financial outlay required by the stock holding regulation, and im-
plied that we were only willing to comply with this regulation
provided the Japanese Government furnished the money both in re-
speot to additional construction necessary and to cover the cost of
the reserve stock. Further, we stated that we felt the price for
such stocks should be fixed before shipment and not based on the
market price in Japan when and if taken over.
The reference to words 154 to 214 in Yokohama's
message of Sept. 28th, deals with the rendering of the business
form for l935, wnich with the concurrence of our Embassy, was filed
incomplete with the authorities as it omitted information in regard
to carrying out reserve stock requirements.
In respect to the copy of the message we had pleasure
in handing you last Friday, purely or the sake of ready reference
may we again state that Messrs. Agnew and Godber are Directors of
Shell interests, while, as you no doubt recollect, Mr. G.S.Walden,
also mentioned in that message, is Chairman of our Board.
Yours very truly,
MermyI. Gor
KFC:M
Kersey F. Coe.
FILED
Attach.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.93)
YOKORAMA
MOWYORK
PAa 1
10v 2/34
Substamce (of) State Department cable November lst to Embasey of which we
assume that you have knowledge has been conveyed to us but unless instructed
we will not disouss with friends STop While not wishing to imply that we are
not working in complete harmony think it advisable to point out in regard to
complianoe (with) stock-s holding regulation-s that whereas we have notified
government as per our letter August 3lst to Minister of Commerce thereby taking
a definite stand friend-s action-s has (have) been confined (to) notifying
government that they desire to postpone filling in form four pending instruct-
ions from head office see words 154 to 214 our telegram Sept. 28th ST0P Refer
to our lotter to P.W.Parker Sept. 28th Embassy received answer to Sept.25th re.
presentation-s on Nov. lst summary of which has been telegraphed to State De
partment Understand other embassy-s concerned have (has) received identical
reply STor We will telegraph essential points as soon as translation available

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.88)
0
INCOMINGCARLEGRAN
YOKOTAMA
CAR
CROM
YOBW YORK
PAGE 2
ETTER
0 2/34
151FR1
STOP We are informed reply contain-s no direct reference to stook holding
but expresses the hope that the foreign company-a will be advised to comply
with all regulations of the law STor We understand reply is general-ly
unsatisfactory and oontain-s little not already advised us unofficially.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.94)
November 8 1954.
In reply refer to
FE 894.6365/113
My dear Mr. Coo:
I aeknowledge with thanks the receipt of your
894.6363/113
letter of November 5, 1934, and of the copy attached
thereto of a cable under date November 2 received from
your Tokohamm office in regard to the Japanese Petroloum
Industry Law.
The information contained in your letter and the
emelosure thereto, particularly that which relates to
the nature of the representations made by your company
to the Japanese Minister of Commerce and Industry on
August 3l, is receiving the attention of the Department.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
2
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Mr. Kersey F. Coo,
Standard-Vasuum Oil Company,
26 Broadway,
Now Yerk, New Yerk.
NOV
nau
FE

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
6363
October 31, 1934.
Dear Mr. Davis:
894.6363/113A
I enclose for your information a rather
interesting article on the Japanese oi! policy
which appeared in a recent edition of the
BALTIMORE SUN. May I suggest that when you
have finished you give it to Atherton for in-
clusior in the permanent files of the Embassy.
With the best of wishes,
As ever yours,
Pierroy
Enclosure:
Newspaper article.
The Honorable
Norman H. Davis,
964PM
C/0 American Embassy,
London.
WE:PMIVAS
the si. a ari
10/31/34
n21.
amw

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 7, 1934.
MSIC
RCM
LOTH
lukden's despatch dated cetober 4, ly34,
in regard to the Japanese Oil Contol Law.
No action requirei.
The despatch reports that the local
manager of the Texas Company, who has cherge
of his company's interests in orea, has
proposed to the ap ropriate auohorities in
Seoul that his company, vhich has insufficient
tankage in Korea to store a six-months stock
in accoruance with the recent apanese
Monopoly law (sppliceble to Korea), be
permitted to store the required stock at
Dairen.where almost enough tankage is availsble
The local manager informed Consul
Chase that he has proposed to his head
office that the coapany discontinue its
business in Lorea in the event ha: the
above mentioneu request is reiused.
The despatch also points out that
the Texas Company does not operate in
Japan proper.
ear

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.94)
4
RECEVED
DEPARTMENT G STATE
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
yw FE
PM 1 41
Mukden, Manc Bia! October 4, 1934.
Lof
FAS EASTEN AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL - FOR STAFF SE OILY.
NOV 7- 1934
SUBJECT: Japanese Oil Control Law.
1-1408
10w
894.6363
M
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATÉ
WASHINGTON.
894.6363/114
SIR:
I heve the honor to enclose herewith & copy of
my despatch No. 962 to the Legation at Peiping, China,
dated October 4, 1934, on the above subject.
Respectfully yours,
A. S. Chase
A. S. Chase
American consul.
Enclosupe:
Copy of despatch No. 962
to the Legation at Peiping.
869.6
HTW
LED
1

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.96)
No. 962.
AMERICN CONSUL.TE GENERL
Mukden, Manohuria, Ootober 4, 1934.
CONF ID ENTI I
- For Staff Uac Only.
UBJCT: Jepanose U11 Cc ro1 Lew.
The Honorable
Nelson Trusle! Johnson,
merioen Minister,
Peiping, Chine.
Sir:
( heve the honor to refer to the reoent eneotment
of a lew in Jepen which, inter li&, requires al. impor-
ters of petroleum roducts to keep on lsnd at  ll times
a six-months st. ck, in udditiun to the v: ryin quenti-
ties neoessary to the carrying on of business.
This law, if enforoed in its entirety, would natur-
ally oreete greet herdship umong the merioon and other
foreign importers, as it woul: require that they not
only have vest quantities of "frozen" stooks, but also
that they build tanks and other storage feoilities at
their own expense. I understand thet the oil companies
in Japan are vigorously protesting against the full
operation of this law.
In that conneetion, I have been confidentially
informed by the looal mameger of the Texes Company,
who has oharge of his company's interests in Korea,
where

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
where the law in question 1s operative, that he has
propomd to the appropriate euthorities in Seoul that
as his company has insurricient tankage in Korea to
store the required amount of goous, permission be
grante to utilize the compuny's fcllities in iren.
It appoars that the Toxas Company hes almost
enough tunk spece trere to koep the umount re ulred
for ores under the new J panese le. The Texus om-
pany, it shoulo be udded, does not operate in Javan
proper, tnd has no representative there.
The menager also stated thet ir the roquest is not
granted, he has proposed to his head ufrice thet the
company discontinue its business in kureu.
Respectrully y urs,
h90
mericn onsul.
Criginal to Legetion.
Five copies sent to Depertment by asp tcn lo. ---
deted oot ber 4, 1934.
une copy to mbas y, Tokyo.
Une copy to Consulate, airen.
869.6
10.B: hp

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.92)
American Consulate General,
Lukden, Mano huria, Cotober 4, 1934.
CONFID INTIAL - FOR ST YF  3E OYLY.
SUBJECT:
Jepanese (11 Control aw.
The Honoruble
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I h ve the honor to encloso nerewith t cop. of
eapeteh . 96 t t.e legati n st.eiping, Ch: na,
detea  et oor , 1a34, on the bove vubjeot.
respeetfuli ours,
A. .ha
Amoricen consul.
Enclosure:
Copy of despatoh No. voz
to the legation at Peiping.
969.6
HTW

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.93)
No. 962.
AMERIC N CON UIT GNE
Mukden, Manohur1n, Ootober 4, 1934.
CON I NTI 1
A.
BJCT: Jepanse 011 cor1 .
The Honorable
Nelson Trusler Johnson,
me 1oen Minister,
re1ping. hin.
3ir:
I heve the honor to refer to the reoent enaotment
of a law in Jupan which, inter lie, reguires al. impor-
tore of petroleum roduots to keep on liand ut  ll times
a six-months st ck, in addition to the vrying quenti-
ties necesscry to the carrying on of business.
This law, if enforoed in its entirety, would netur-
ally oreete greet herdship emong the merioon and other
foreign importers, es it wouln require thet thoy not
only have vest quantities of "frozen" stooks, but also
that they build tanks und other storage facilities at
their own expense. I understand thst the oil companies
in Japan are vigorously protesting against the full
operation of this law.
In that conneetion, I have been confidentielly
informed by the leeal mamager of the Texes Company,
who hes eharee of his eompany's interests in Korea,
where

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
where the law in queetion 1s operative, that he has
propomed to the appropriate suthorities in sooul that
as his compuny hes insurricient tankege in Korea to
store the reguired smount f goous, permis ion be
grante to utilize the compeny's frcllitles in peiren.
It eppoars that the Toxas Company hes almost
enough tonk spece there to ke p the mount recuired
for ores under the new J panese l. ho exes om-
pany, it shoul: be edded, does not operate in Japan
proper, tnd hus no representative there.
The maneger also atated tnet ir the reguest is not
granted, he hes proposed to his hed frioe thet the
oompany disoontinue its business in kores.
Respootrully y urs,
merion onaul.
0
oririnel to Leget lon.
Five oopies sont to part ent by desp: ton . ---
dated 0ot.ber 4, 1934.
une copy to mbas y, okyo.
One copy to Consulete, airen.
869.6
1B: hp

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.91)
American Consulate General,
Mukden, bano huria, cotober 4, 1934.
CONFIDENTIAL - FOR ST FF UBE CNLY.
SUBJECT:
Jepaneos i control aw.
The Jonoruble
The secret ry of tt te,
ushinton.
Sir:
I h ve tik hener to  ne lose rewith  copy of
my despetch Hs. 98. t. the Legati n ut ei in, hina,
dt etr , l,  the be utjet.
Respcutfully joure,
Ahuoe
mor n onl.
Enc losure:
Copy of despatoh No. 962
to the legation at leiping.
869.6
HTW

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.93)
No. 962.
MERICN CONDITGNE
Mukden, Manehuria, Ootober 4, 1934.
SUN : N I 1 - FOF 
BJacr: Jepanese U1l Contrul w.
The Honoruble
Nelson rualer Johnson,
me 1oen Minister,
reiping, chin.
1r:
I heve the honor to refer to the reoent eneotment
of a luw in Jmpen which, inter  li:. ro uir-s sl impor-
tore of petroleum roduots to keep on lnd at  ll tims
a six-montis st ck, in addition to the v ryins qu-nti-
ties neeessery to the oarrying on of business.
This law, ir enforoed in its entiroty, would notur-
ally oreete grent herdship emong the erion und other
foreign importers, ns it woul: require thet they not
only bave vest cuntities of "frozen" stooks, but elso
that they build tunks und other storege fecilities at
their owm expense. I understand thet the oil oomp nins
in Japam are vigorously protesting agoinst the full
operation of this law.
In that commeetion, I heve been confidentielly
informed by the leeal memager of the Texss Company,
who has charee of his company's interests in Koren,
where

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.88)
- 2 -
where the law in queatiom is operative, that he has
propomd to the appropriate uuthorities in ooul thet
as his compuny has insurricient tankege in Kuree to
store te required umount oo. p rmie iun be
grante to utillze te compny's faollitles in tiren.
It eppours that the roxes Compeny hes almost
enough tenk spece ti ere to kop the  mount re uired
for orer under the now J penese 1.ho exs om-
peny, it shoul, be udded, does not operate in Jrpen
proper, nd has no representative there.
The meneger  lso st ted tnet if the reguest is not
ranted, he hes ro oseu to his hod fiioe tt the
oompany disoontinue its busines: in ure..
nespeotrully y. urs,
ha
meric n naul.
0
cririnel to Lgatlon.
Five ooples sont to apert ent by d sp to . --
deted ot ber 4, 1.34.
(no oopy to mbas y, ky.
ne coy to Consulte,iren.
860.6
IDB: hp

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.91)
American Consulate General,
Mukden, Hano muria, Cotober 4, 1934.
CONPIDNTIAL - YR TAYY
Jepanese C1l Control iaw.
SUBJECT:
The Honoruble
The Secretary of State,
ashington.
Sir:
I h ve the it nor toe eneloae herawith a copy of
my lespatch No. go? to the Logation at eiping, China,
deted ctober 4, 1a34, on tha abova subjeot.
Respeotrully yours,
. chase
merin consul.
Enc losure:
Copy of despatoh No. D62
to the Legation at reiping.
809.6
HTW

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.90)
No. 962.
MEICN CONLN
sukden, Manehurin, Octobe: 4, 1934.
SUN : NTI
Por Yef Vse On).
JBJ CT: Jepanese C1l contr1 .
The Homorable
Helson rualer Jumson,
me1oninister,
relpine, hin.
1r:
I heve the lonor to rofer to the reoont eneotment
of a low in J pn whic, inter li. re uirs al im or-
tore ef potrolour ruducts to keep on l nd st 1l timra
a ix-montus st cx, in dditi n to the vryin qu-nti-
tles necessory to the o rryln on of businens.
This law, 1f eni roed in its entiroty, would n tur-
ally oreete grert herdship umong the orion und other
foreign importers, as it woul: require thet they not
only beve vrat cu ntitien of frozen" st oks, but eleo
that they build tanks nd other storege feellities at
their owm expemse. I underatand thet the oil comp nins
in Japem ere vigorously protestine against the full
operation of this law.
Im that commeetion, I heve been confidenticlly
informed by the local memeger of the Texen Compeny,
who hes chergs of his compeny's interests in Koren,
where

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.88)
- 2 -
where the law in questiom is operative, that he hes
propomed to the approprlate vuthorities in ooul that
as his compuny has insurrieient tankege in Koree to
atore the required emount of goous, permis lon be
grante to utilize the compny's fsclitles in iren.
It eppoars that the roxes compeny has lmost
anough tonk apeoe tiere to xo p the  mount re u. red
for oree under the new  punese l.e exs om
jany, it shoul be edoec, dues not oporeto in Jrpen
proper,  nd has no representtive thore.
The mmneger siso stuted tnet ir the re uest is not
grnted, ne hee ro osea to nis he: fiice tt the
oompany disoontinue its busines, in ?ore.
espootrliyrs
meric nnsul.
6
criinel to getlon.
Five coplos sont to prt nt oy a sp to . -
deted ot ber 4, 134.
n opy t b . ky
no co,y to consulste, iren.
86U.
1B: 

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
11
BC
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
FROM
Tokio
fore being communicated
to anyone (B)
Dated Novembor 8,1934.
Received 9:30 AM
yet
Secrctary of State,
ashington.
794.6363
894.6363/1
250 November 8, 9 p.m.
2
1:
My 244 November 6, 7 p.m.
he Netherlands Hinister as informed me that this
morning he sent to his government a long telegram explaining
the oil situation in Japan and suating that in his opinion
thero is no hope of obtaining a y helioration of the
the
5
sit: ation unless the foreign oil companies and/British,
Arcrican and Netherlands Governients present a united front to
the Japanese.
GREW
RR C SB

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
RR
SPECIAL GRAY
1-1800
FROM
Tokio
Datod Novomber 8, 1934.
Roce. 9:50 a. m.
Jell
Socrctary of Stato,
10f
21. to 20lepo
894.6363/116
Washington.
Letto
11
stondard-Vocuun
Decartment of State
Cr
249, November 8, 7 p. m.
Local manager Standard Vacuum Company requcsts
Embassy to s nd the following m ssago in codc to the
Departmont for transmission to thoir principals in New
York. I am informed by the Br tish Embassy that they
have sont a similar mcssage in code to London for the
Rising Sun Company.
"Parker, Standard Vacuumn Oil Company, New York.
Referring our cable November 7th., tho following
is the opinion of the local ropresentative British Oil
Company and ourselves. We havo boen in constant touch
vith thc American and British Embassies and the Dutch
Legation.
First: if it is decided to notify Japanese
Government that foreign oil companies refuse to comply
with stock holding rogulations then in view of Japan's
recent uncompromising and unsatisfacotry replies to
F/G
govornment represantation, it is considored that apparontly
the only chance to influence canccllation or modification
of those

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
49. from Tokio
-2-
of those regulations which can be done without Diet action
lios in tho willingness of tho Amorican, British and Dutch
Govornments to announce simultancously, and at the timo of
notification of noncomplianco by tho foreign oil companies,
that if Japan persists in theso unfair rogulations which
force foroign concerns to hclp finance a national dofonse
schome, tho forogoing govornments will be constrained to
adopt practical defensivo measurcs to guard against unvar-
rantod transfer of national potrolcum rosources.
Socond: Japan is almost cntiroly depending upon
tho Unitcd Statos and Dutch East Indics for petroloum and
if sho accomplishos her presont objcctives in Japan and
Manchuria, which dopend upon rofining crudo oil which must
bo importod, and tho export supply of which wc assumo could
at lcast bo subjected to control and the rogulations as
restrictive and burdensome as thosc imposed by the Japanose
ontrol law, it would then soom likely that Japan will feel
frec to procoed without fear of opposition to attempt by
roexport of refinod products and othor means to dominato
the potrol um situation in China as well.
Third: we should declino for the prosent to
submit information roquested by Hsinking (see our cablo
October 25th) also continue to doclino to quoto on crudo
oil boca so to do so would appoar to be tantamount to
acquiescing in proposed monopoly and would be inconsistent
with
●

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.95)
B49 from Torio
-3-
with protests made by government.
In view foregoing and as issuos involved are mere
than puroly commorcial in both Japan and Manchuria we and
friends hope that the govornments concerned can be por
suaded by you and London to support plan as per first
paragraph. Frionds are cabling London through British
Embassy in similar sense. Goold."
Ploase inform Embassy if delivered.
WWC RR
CRW

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
(RCA)
TO BE TRANSMITTED
OFFICE
ATE WHETHER
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
OR
harge to
Washington,
034 NOV 8 PM 4 Nvember 8, 1934.
bP
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AMEMBASSY,
AND RECORDS
TOKYO (Japan).
894.6363/11
is being
neus
mailed
d today to Standard-vacuum/oil Company.
Pheep. Acty
814
894.6363/116
pery
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
V
11
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
1—188
Index Bu.—No. 50.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.94)
4nunmber 9 1054.
Dear Mr. Parker:
894.6363/116
The Amerieem Embessy at Tokyo in response to a ro-
quest frem the memager in Japam of the Standard-Vasum
Qil Cempamy has, in a cable mder date November 8, 1934,
ferverded to the Department for transmissiom to you a
message in regard to the petroleum intustry in Japem and
Masekuria.
A eopy of the Embassy's telegram nder referenee is
smelosed.
Sineerely yours.
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Enelosure:
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 249, November 8,
7 p.m.
NOV
Mr. P. W. Parker,
9.1934
3f
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
26 Broadway,
reay
New York, New York.
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
11/8/34

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.95)
(rdcm
3
RECEIVED
26 BROADWAY
1934 NCV 9
AM 9 52
NEW YORK
November 7, 1934.
花
AIR MAILOF
Aunvered
HUTONS
A.，
FTNALAIRS
894.6363
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
1111
Chief of Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
New
894.6363/117
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
We quote in its entirety cable dated November
7th received today from Yokohama:
"In addition to points named in our telegram of Nov.2nd
we interpret substance of reply to Sept. 25th representa-
tions as follows - FIRST Aithough plans are sanctioned
annually for only 1 year in advance our trade will not
be restricted below that done prior to enforcement of
law as long as demand continues to increase - 
SECOND
Owing to various factors it is impossible to estimate
and distribute increase in the demand beyond 1 year in
advance but as a policy Japan desires to refine rather
than import finished products therefore idle refining
capacity will have priority and the balance of the in-
crease in the demand will be distributed fairly among
all refiners and importers - THIRD It will be impossible
for the Petroleum Committee to act on application to
refine unless accompanied by concrete plan but except in
special circumstances it will be comparatively easy for
importers to obtain permission to refine if within import
quotas previously assigned by government - FOURTH -
It
will be especially easy for importers to obtain permission
to refine if the enterprises include more than 50% Japanese
capital - FIFTH - Government will not interfere with sell-
ing price of petroleum without good reason and if in any
emergency government purchase reserve supply under Article
No. 6 of the law it will be at current price - FULLSTOP
Refer to our telegram of Oct. l9th friends and ourselves
have received official communication from Commerce Depart-
ment dated November 5th demanding completion of form No. 4
by Nov. 15th and warning us if we fail that the smooth
execution of our l935 business plan might be interfered
with STOP Friends also American British Dutch Embassies
with whom we are consulting are notifying their principals
regarding this communication and we will telegraph again
tomorrow FULLSTOP Reply dated Nov. 5th from Foreign Office
F/G
records American and British representations regarding

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.98)
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck
- 2 -
November 7th, 1934
"proposed Manchuria monopoly have been telegraphed State
Department therefore we will not telegraph summary unless
instructed but are sending full text by first mail STOP
Reply is considered by all concerned to be entirely un-
satisfactory and states Japan's intention not to interfere
with monopoly."
I would particularly direct your attention to the
demand upon the foreign companies to furnish complete information
under the much disputed form No. 4 by November 15th. If we do
this, the compenies virtually accept and undertake to construct
the additional storage and fill same with six months stocks.
Both we and our friends have so far declined to submit this in-
formation and in addition our people advised the government that
any compliance with this provision would have to be at the expense
of the Japanese government as we were not prepared to invest ad-
ditional capital. It is merely coincidence that this information
1s demanded on the same date -- November 15th -- as has been re-
quested by the Manchurian authorities for information with respect
to our sales and investment in Manchuria.
If the request is appropriate, I hope you can send
us the gist of the Japanese government's reply with respect to the
Manchuria monopoly, as covered in the last puragraph of the above
cable.
The reason that neither Mr. Teagle nor I have gotten
in touch with you this week so far is because we are still awaiting
a further cable from London.
Very truly yours,
J. Parhr
PWP:H

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.93)
HE
d
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 8, 1934.
Fle
Conversation:
Apyto Tatyo"1/918
Mr. P. W. Parker of the Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company;
.KS
Mr. Hornbeck.
S0
Subjeot: Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
RECEIVED
894.6363
Mr. Parker called Mr. Hornbeck on the telephone from
New York. Mr. Hornbeck stated that if Mr. Parker were
present he would show him one or two reports from the
Embassy at Tokyo in regard to the oil situation in Japan
and Manohuria but that the matter could wait until
8
Mr. Parker or one of his associates came to Washington
(Mr. Hornbeck had in mind portions of Tokyo's despatches
Nos. 1013 of October 17 and 1017 of Ootober 19).
Mr. Hornbeck stated that there were two matters in
particular which he wished to comment upon, the first be-
ing a press report from Tokyo to the effeot that "The
Standard Oil Company", without indicating which one of the
companies, had for some months past refused to supply
crude oil to Japan. Mr. Parker replied to the effect that
the Standard Oil Company of New York has never sold crude
oil to Japan inasmuch as to do so would be contrary to its
own interests but that the Standard Oil Company of Cali-
fornia has sold crude oil to Japan for many years. In
A
response
F/G

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
response to Mr. Hornbeck's suggestion that Mr. Parker
might wish to set the newspapers straight on the matter,
Mr. Parker stated his approval of the idea if Mr. Hornbeck
believed such publioity to be desirable. Mr. Hornbeck re-
plied to the effect that the matter is one for decision
direot
by the Company as it is not of/ooncern either to him or
to the Department.
Mr. Parker stated that Mr. Teagle plans to proceed
to Washington about Tuesday of next week and that upon
arrival he will call at the Department.
Mr. Parker also stated that although the Company had
received no cable reports from London,its representatives
there had this morning telephoned to the effect that its
(Rising Sun Petroleum Company)
"friends" (Royal Dutoh Shell interests) are still await-
ing action by the Foreign Office in London and that they
hope that such action will be taken soon.
Mr. Parker stated that he plans to leave for Vanoouver
next Sunday in order to connect with the EMPRESS OF CANADA
which is soheduled to reach Japan about December 1; that
Mr. G. S. Walden (Chairman of the Board of the Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company), who is already en route from Italy,
expects to reach Japan about December 5; and that the
General Manager of the Royal Dutoh Shell Company and one
of the Company's London directors, who are leaving England
next week, expect to reach Japan about December 15.
Mr. Hornbook

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Mr. Hornbeok stated that the Department had received
reports, which were more or less hearsay and for which no
responsibility could be taken, to the effeot that, in the
negotiations now in progress between the Dutch and Japa-
nese Governments in regard to the trade of the Netherland
East Indies, Japanese representatives had put forward some
sort of a proposal with a view to obtaining larger sup-
plies of petroleum from the Netherland East Indies; that
the situation thus presented would appear to warrant
careful watohing. Mr. Parker replied to the effeot that
he had good reason to believe that the demands of the
Japanese would not be met and that, exoluding Russia and
Rumania, Japan would find it difficult to obtain oil sup-
plies (unless furnished by British-Dutch-American interests).
Mr. Hornbeck stated that he had reason to believe
that the Netherland Government had been told by one of its
own people that unless the oil companies and their respec-
tive governments "got together" there would be no hope of
obtaining an amelioration of the oil situation in Japan
and Manchuria -- a statement whioh confirms the opinion
held in the Department that the lead must come from the
British Government. Mr. Parker replied to the effect that
the matter was being worked on in London; that his company's
"friends" felt that the concerned governments could best
assist by obtaining a suspension of the petroleum law until
tho

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
the representatives of the respeotive companies could
reach Japan; and that suoh aotion is about all that the
governments could be expected to take until negotiations
are reopened in Japan. Mr. Hornbeck replied to the effect
that suoh a suggestion appeared logical but that the Brit-
ish Government had put forward to us no such plan and that
as a matter of fact it has so far failed to make to us any
suggestion whatsoever.
Mr. Hornbeck then repeated his understanding that
Mr. Teagle would soon be in Washington and added that
both the Japan and the Manchuria cases had been turned
over to Mr. Mackay who would henceforth have the primary
responsibility in the Division in regard to matters re-
lated thereto.
件
reows
RCM:EJL

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.97)
EA (H.F.initaul FE
山
coby No.17)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Conversation.
November 10, 1934.
Capy t Takyo
Mr. P. W. Parker, of the
Standard Vacuum Company.
894.6363
Mr. Hornbeck.
eet
894.6363/1
Subject:
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
RECEIVED
Mr. Parker called me on the telephone from New York.
He inquired whether there was anything new since the
telephone conversation between Mr. Teagle and me of
6
yesterday. I said that there was nothing new. Mr. Parker
said that this would presumably be his last inquiry before
starting for Tokyo; he would like to know whether there is
any possibility that the American Government would be dis-
posed to do anything in the way of placing an embargo or
restriction upon export of petroleum. I said that we had
gone over that matter pretty thoroughly with Mr. Teagle,
and that, on the last occasion when the matter had been
discussed between Mr. Teagle and me, I had said to Mr.
Teagle, unofficially and as a matter of personal opinion,
that, upon the basis of my knowledge of the general thought
of the Administration, but without this question having
been put definitely and been subjected to a decision, it
FOLED
was my impression that action in that direction could not
be expected; and I had suggested that if the American
F/G
companies

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
companies want a decision with regard to the point they
should themselves put the question up to the highest
authorities. I reminded Mr. Parker that it has been
indicated repeatedly in our statements during the con-
versations on this sub ject that the American Government
awaits an initiative by the British Government and we
definitely do not intend to "get out in front" in this con-
nection. Mr. Parker said that he understood this. He said
that his representative in Tokyo seemed still to think that
we might lead off with restrictions. I said that our
Ambassador in Tokyo has been informed of our attitude and
I have not the slightest doubt but that he has informed
the Standard Vacuum representative there.
I then went on to say that, from the fact that the
Dutch Shell people are sending representatives to Tokyo,
just as Mr. Parker is going there on behalf of Standard
Vacuum, we may assume that the British Government has given
them its blessing in that conneotion; and that presumably
the Ambassadors of all three countries at Tokyo will
assist these representatives of the companies toward
making contacts and going into conference with the Japanese
authorities. I did not see that more could be expected of
us at the present moment. Mr. Parker said that he felt
that we had been and were being very helpful. He wondered
whether I had any other suggestions. I said that I had
one: speaking unofficially and informally and personally,
工

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
I felt that, confronted by a problem such as Mr. Parker
will be dealing with on his trip, those who are handling
the problem should seriously consider indications of
trends in the field of foreign trade and merchandising
abroad; that, more and more, governments are going to be
confronted with the question of employment for their own
people; that in countries circumstanced as are Japan and
China -- to say nothing of others --, there will presumably
be more and more a tendency to try to substitute domestic
labor and employment for foreign labor and imported services;
that, to limit the thought to Japan, the Japanese would
import raw materials but as far as possible do their own
processing and there own merchandising; hence, foreign
companies doing business in Japan would need to think
seriously before adding to their investments and expanding
their agencies of distribution within the country. No
one could say that there might not come about changes
in trend, both international and national, -- but the
trends of the moment must be considered in connection with
any commitments for the immediate future. Mr. Parker said
that he realized this; that his company had not made new
investments in Japan for sometime back; and that he
supposed that, more and more, the Japanese would see to
it that, where their own people could compete with
foreigners doing business in Japan, little if any profit
woula

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.95)
- 4 -
would be permitted to acorue to the latter. I suggested
that this part of the conversation be regarded as strictly
entre nous. Mr. Parker said: "Of course". Mr. Parker said
he appreciated all the trouble which we had taken in con-
nection with this matter. I said that it was not trouble;
that it was our business; that what concerns the rights
and interests of American business concerns us; and that
we appreciate the disposition to consult us and "play the
game with" us which his company has shown. I wished him
an enjoyable and successful trip. And the conversation
there ended.
544
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
[s]
Conversation.
November 9, 1934.
Mr. Walter C. Teagle, president,
Copy to Takyo
Standard Oil Company of
11919134
New Jersey.
S
somr
Mr. Hornbeck.
sub ject:
Japanese Tetroleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
894.6363/120
Mr. Teagle called Mr. Hornbeck by telephone from
New York, said that Mr. Parker was leaving tomorrow,
bound toward Japan; said that Mr. Parker was with him
at the moment; and inquired whether there were any new
developments, anything new from London, or anything which
Mr. Hornbeck might wish to suggest before Mr. Parker
leaves. Mr. Hornbeck said that there was nothing new,
nothing from London; that he had made it a point through-
out the conversations which have been held to refrain
from attempting to give advice; but that he would offer
the suggestion that the American oil companies be on guard
against becoming too heavily or too deeply (as to invest-
ment or time period) committed in relation to delivery of
oil; also, that they keep an eye on the negotiations which
are still in process between the Netherland Government and
the Japanese Government with regard to Dutch East Indian
FIED
trade.
F/G

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
trade. Mr. Teagle said that he appreciated having these
suggestions. He said that he would be in Washington on
the morning of November 14 and would call on Mr. Hornbeok
on that morning and he would hope to have more news from
London to give us at that time.
FE
FE:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.92)
五
McL
Gray.
TELEGRAM REČEIVED
Tokyo.
Datcd Novombor 13, 1934
1-1800
FROM
Rcccivod 6.33 am.
xe
FAP RS
Secretary of State,
10.
Washington
251, November 13,4 p.m.
844.4363/155
My 241, November 1, 6 pom. oil control.
Paragraph five, last sentencc should read
"Pormission vill gonerally speaking be casily
894.6363≠121
granted, cspecially if thc company concerned has not less
trupcat not less) than half Japaneso capital."
Please make proper corroction in the third par-
agraph of the enclosure to my dcspatch number 1042,
November 2, 1934.
GREW.
RR
HPD
FED

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.97)
McL
Gray.
Tokyo.
Datcd Novombor 13, 1934.
Rcccivod 6.33 a.m.
Secrotary of State,
Washington.
251, November 13, 4 p.m.
My 241, Novembor 1, 6 p.m, oil control.
Paragranh five, last sentence should read
"Pormission vill genorally speaking bo casily
granted, ospecially if the company concerned has not loss
trepeat not less) tinn half Japa csc capital.
Ploaso make propor corroction in the third par-
agraph of the onclosuro to my dospatch numbor 1042,
November 2, 1934.
GREW.
RR
HPD

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363
SEE ....894.00P.R/82
FOR ..Despatch. #1007
FROM ..Japan
(-.Grew.
) DATED ..0ct.11,1934.
TO
NAME
1-1127
as an unsolvable problem for the American oil interests in Japan N
during September.
FRG.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.90)
(e) Anarian Oil Intereata in Japan
The Japanese Petroleum Industry Law enacted last Mareh,
continued to be an unsolvable problem for the Ameriean oll
HH
interests in Japan during September. In 8 Ition to that
the cuestion regarding enforcement of th etroleum sales
monopoly in Manchuria further obsessed Americ n oil companies.
One of th: primary obj cts of thr Petroleum In ustry law,
st ted r. Sakai of t  De art t of Com ere en Inrustry,
1a
Bee Embassy's despatch No. 957 of Ce tem er f, 1934.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
is to abolish eventually imports of petroleum products
into Japan, Me said that Japanese refiners eould not
dispose of all of their products beeause of the compe-
titiom of foreim oil interests, and that it was im-
portant that they be given more opportunity to expand.
Neither the Ameriean nor the British oil interests
have thus far been able to obtain sufficiently definite
statements from the Japanese Government regarding future
enforeement or modification of the oil law to ena le them
to formulate definite policies toward the Government. They
would like to be assured that some security for the enormous
investment entailed in maintaining six months petroloum
supply on hand, wil? be guaranteed. In like manner they
would like to know that the Government means shortly to
eliminate entirely foreign oil companies from Japan, in order
that they could deci e w ether to with raw at once without
sponding any more money on costly installat ons.
The British and Netherlands Governments ar concerned
over the petroloum law, an: their aiplomatic representatives,
as ell as the American Embassy, have made representations
to the Foreign Office stating their Government's positions
regarding the Japanese law. (See Embassy's Despatch No. 984
of September 21, 1934). The forelgn oil companies have not
thus fur complied with the onerous provisions of the law re-
garding hol ing large stocks in Japan because of their un-
certainty of the future. The Government on its part is
hesitant eDout being too severe on the foreign companies
because of its fear that they might be able to place a sue-
cessful embargo on exports to Japan, and because Japanese
companies, whieh are encouraged by the new law to build
rafineriea

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8 .
refineries, cannot support the tremendous financial out-
Lay at present. Nor could the Japanese companies comply with
the storage provision of the law without Government aid.
In his interview with the Foreign Office Officials,
the Chargé d'Affaires learned that the Foreign ffice had
counselled the other Government Departments to proceed
very slowly with enforcement of the Petroloum Law in order
42
not to ineite retaliatory measures by foreign Governments.
The Chief of the Commerelal Bureau f the Foreign Of-
fice st ted that he did not believe thst the enforcement
of the Mane urian oil monopoly was imminent because of the
unsettled con ition of Japanese administration there at
present. The Monopoly Law may be modified to a licensing
system later, but at present it has caused informal pro-
tests to the Japanese Government from foreign Governments
concerned.* Americ n oil com anies have not thus f r com-
bined to refr in from bid ing on contracts offared by the
Manchuria Oil Company. The Foreigm Of ice is apper ntly
doing what it can t avoid raising the oil cuestion to the
level of en int rnat onal inci ent.** It remsins to be seen,
however, what action the American, British and Dutch oil
companies will take, and how strong th retaliatory measures
that may be imposed oy foreign Gov rnments will be.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363/
SEE
893.6363 Manchur1a/64
FOR
) DATED Nov. 8.1934.
TO
NAME
1-1127
P.W. Parker
12
3
Japanese Petroleum Industry Law: Referring to cable received
REGARDING:
by Standard-Vacuum Oil Gompany, from Yokohama office, states
that the information contained therein is substantially in
accord with information received from Embassy at Tokyo.
Cautions regarding the apparent reservation of the right to
control prices if the public interest should so demand.
FRG.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.82)
11/13/34
Msm
note
I cmider it umld
to a serims mistute
fer The Oil represe-tateirs
to muke d "surpise"
appearance in Japan-
on the contrary, I thliers
the amad shiuld tr
Paufull pupmed W.T. Concurs
LQ3

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.94)
Capy to Tabayo
"/19/54
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
30k
DIVISTON OFAREASTERN AFFAIRS
V 3U 1934 November 13, 1934.
Conversatio:itr
cle
Mr. Walter C. Teagle, President,
hision of
Mr. Mackay.
894.6363
Subjeot: Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
894.6363/124
Related Developments and Problems.
Mr. Teagle called Mr. Mackay on the telephone from
New York. Mr. Teagle stated that he had just received
from his company's representative in London a cable to
tho effect that the London director of the Royal Dutch
Shell interests reoently had a further disoussion with
the British Foreign Offioe; that it is believed that the
Foreign Office will sometime during this week take action
with regard to the oil situation in Japan and Manchuria;
that the conoerned British and Dutch oil interests are
strongly of the opinion that the Japanese Government will
take no action of consequence if the oil companies fail
to file before November 15 their statements of intention
in regard to the storage provisions of the Petroleum
D
Industry Law; and that the representatives of the oil
interests in London are now of the opinion, possibly as a
result of a suggestion from the Foreign Office, that the
Japanese Government should not be informed that ranking
F/G
officials

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
officials of the oil companies are now en route to China.
Mr. Teagle requested an expression of opinion with regard
to whether the American oil interests should refrain from
informing the Japanese Government that their representa-
tive is about to sail for Yokohama.
Mr. Mackay replied to the effect that in his opinion
the Department would not care to express an opinion an
suoh a matter; that the companies should decide for them-
selves with regard to tactics or strategies to be em-
ployed; that the reasons for withholding from the Japa-
nese Government information with regard to the impending
arrival in Japan of officials of the interested oil
companies are by no means clear; but that if practicable
it would seem highly desirable that the American, British
and Dutoh interests present a united front to the Japa-
nese Government.
Mr. Teagle replied that he likewise failed to under-
stand the reasoning behind the existing attitude in
London; that he hoped, however, to obtain a clarifioation
by means of a telephone conversation which he would have
about noon today with his representative in London; and
that he might, depending upon the information so received,
telephone the Department this afternoon.
Mr. Teagle expressed his appreciation for all the
Department is doing on behalf of the American oil inter-
ests and stated that he would call at the Department to-
morrow, November l4, for a further disoussion of the situation.
ROM:EJL

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.94)
Capy't Taky
11/19/34
3005
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Conversation.
November 14, 1934.
Mr. Valter C. Teagle, president,
seenm
Standard Oil Company of
rmsm
New Jersey.
1
Mr. Kersey F. Coe, of the
894.4262
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company.
Mr. Hornbeck.
Petroleum Law
ubject:
Japanese/and "Manchukuo" Petroleum
894.6363/1
Monopolies, and Related Developments
and Problems.
Mr. Teagle and Mr. Coe called this morning by appoint-
ment. Mr. Teagle informed me of the latest developments
and handed me, with regard to them, the memorandum and the
25
copies of telegrans which are hereunder attached and which
are self-explanatory. There followed a lengthy conversa-
tion with regard to possibilities of procedure. Mr. Teagle
asked me whether I thought that the present situation, as
accounted for in the papers which he had handed me, was
satisfactory; to which I replied that it seemed to me that
the developments thus accounted for were in the right
direction. At this point Mr. Nelson Johnson came in. The
conversation turned to the point whether the representative
FLED
of Standard-Vacuum, Mr. Parker, who is on his way to Japan,
should appear in Japan alone in advance of the arrival of
his colleague who is proceeding from London and the repre-
F
sentative of the British-Dutch interests. It was suggested,
G
and

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
and it was the view of all present that, as things look
now, it would be best for these various representatives
to meet at Shanghai and, in going to Japan, to go together;
that throughout this matter the companies and the Govern-
ments concerned should present, as far as possible, a
united front.
I read portions of Tokyo's despatch No. lol7, of
October 19, 1934, on "American Oil Interests in Japan",
and No. 1013, of October 17, 1934, on "0il Monopoly in
Manchuria". Mr. Teagle and Mr. Coe said it was very helpful
indeed to them to have the indication of uncertainty and
difference of opinion among the Japanese authorities; and
Mr. Coe gave an account, which showed rather intimate
knowledge on his part of Japan, of Japanese official
personnel and business interests that are involved in or
concerned with regard to these petroleum matters.
There developed consensus of opinion that, awaiting
a move by the British Government which the British oil
interests had indicated they thought might be expected soon,
no further action within the next few days was likely to
be needed here or in New York. Mr. Teagle said that he
would be in Washington for three days.
Mr. Coe said that he would keep us informed if there
were new developments. And the conversation there ended.
(NOTE:

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
(NOTE: It should be noted, from the correspondence
supplied by Mr. Teagle, that the British interests are
expeoting a move by the British Government toward the end
of this week. Associating this with the fact that the
British have been completely silent on this subject --
taking no initiative such as we have intimated must come
from them, if and when, in regard to cooperative action --
during the past several weeks, there arises this conjecture:
May not the British Government have been deliberately hold-
ing off in view of the naval conversations; and may not the
intimation that they expect soon to act warrant a conjecture
that they are expecting the naval conversations to take a
turn during this week which will render it no longer needful
for them to withhold action in reference to the petroleum
matters?)
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
November 13th, 1934.
MOMORANDUM IN REGARD TO JAPAN.
Information has been received by us today from our
and Shell representatives in London that efter discussion with british
Foreign Office by Mr. Agnew, the latter still feel that the British
Foreign Office will take the initiative, paving in this way for full
discussion of the Petroleum Law by the fore in companies with the
Japanese Government and that the latter will definitely modify its
views as long as no woakening is shown by the foreign companies. Mr.
Agnew of Shell believes action will be taken by the Foreign Office
this week and that it is the understanding that the British Ambassador
at Tokyo will be asked to support the Shell's interests in this at-
titude. Friends ir. London heve no apprehension as a result of tempor-
arily disregarding the law, pending the ultimate discussion. Suggest-
ions are made by representatives of both companies in London that it
would be a mistake to approach the Japanese Government now for postpone-
ment of presentation of the information required by them and tley
strongly advocate that the foreign vil companies should ignore the de-
mand for completion of the required returns by November 15th. They
further feel that it would be a mistake to open up direct discussion
with the Japanese Government at a time when diplomatic negotiations are
in progress and they feel that the Japanese Government will definitely
modify its views in respect to the provisions of the new law if no
weakening is shown by the foreign companies.
Assurances are given that diplomatic pressure by the
British Foreign Office will be exerted this week in an effort to pave
the way for disoussions between the foreign oil companies and the

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Japanese authorities in respect to modifications in the operation of
the law.
In consideration of these views and as we understend it will
not conflict with any State Department plans, Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company proposes to instruct its representative in Japan to take no
action on or before November 15th in resrect to completion of the form
as demanded by the Japanese Governent. Inasmuch as sinilar instructions
have been telegraphed by Shell, London, to their representative, both
interests will presert a united front at Tokyo.
The substance of the two messages from London - dated
November 12th and November 13th - was telephoned today by I'r. Teagle
to Mr. McKay of the State Department.
KFC:M

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.96)
INCOMING MESSAGE
ORVILLE HARDEN, LONDON
W.C. TEAGLE,NEW YORK
Ans'd by letter.
Dated NOV. 12/34 FH 102
Ans'd by wire.
Time rec'd 11:05 PM
Date NOV. 12TH
••SUBJECT TO CORRECTION
thel
CDE
to
'W.C. Teagle' J.A. Brown
Friends have telegraphed their Yokohama representative-s as
follows (QUoTE) Referring to your telegram sth t is month we
have received letter from Mining Bureau demanding completicn
Sept. 30th return-s by Nov. 15th we dc not xish you comply
with Japanese request-s as we feel it would be a mistake for
you to open up direct discussion Japanese cvermment at a
time when negotiations are cing on betweon British and
Japanese Governments (STOF)
We understand British Ambassader will  ssked support you
in this attitude (STOP)
7
Referring to vour telegram lzth this month friends now re-
ceived similar invitation (SfoP)
'Referring to your telegram loth this month' friends inform
us Parker arriving Dec. lst Yokohame (STOP)
For your information Mr, Gedber is leaving this week Por the
East and could if absolutely necessary errive Jupan in abous
5 weeks time but we do net lish even conbined diseussion
between Japanese Covermment ena the to companies to take
place wntil diplomatie pressure has thoroughly paved the
way therefore telegraph us if in your cpinion wi thout dis-
closing any of the above itcrmation you can sracetully
decline the present invivation of he Japanese foreign
office if not what would you sug est (srof)
Re Shanghei's telegram Cct. zzia we are replying them as
follows (LEsSaGE BEGINS) we do not wi s you supply eny of the
information requested by Manchukuo Goverrment these instruc-
tions (this instrueticn ?) is iven to you on aavice Erltish
Government and you should therefore discues with their
representative Mukden and with friends uny elaborating of
this refusal that may seem necessary (UnauoTE)
ORVILLE HARDEN
(Standmd ail Co n.J)

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
INCOMING MESSAGE
VILLE HARDEN LONDON
TEAGLE NEW YORK
Dated NOV. 13/34 FH 12
Ans'd by letter.
7:43 AM  Date NOV. 13TH
Time rec'd
Ans'd'by wire.
SUBJECT TO CORRECTION
Harden
CDE
socomy-
For J.A. Brown
Referring to your telegram loth this wonth have telegraphed' you
message being sent by friends to their representative Vokohama (SToP)
Agnew again has talked (with) foreign ofrice and still feels it
will take the initiative paviny in this way orrortunity-ies full
disoussion by foreign companies with Japanese covernment and that
latter will definitely modiry its views as long as no weakening
is shown by companies (STOP)
He believes action wili be taken by foreign cffice this week (STop)
Friends here have no apprehension temporary disregarding new law-s
pending ultimate discussion in view law so flagrantly violating
rights of foreign companies (SToP)
We agree and it would te a mistake approach government now for
postponement presentation of information (srop)
Also feel it may prove enbairassiny Ges. S. Walden, Parker to
arrive Tokio prior to sodber as Japanese covermment may supsest
discussion with them whereas essentlal present whited frunt to
government (STOP)
May therefore be desirable Parker cee. s. Warceu to arra ge metual
arrival date Tokic to correspond with Godber end pessibly not
until diplomatic pressure hus thorou hly paved way for diseussien
(STOP)
Geo. S. Walden forwarded Parker statenent sho ius ceneral modi-
fication-s it is fult oil ccmpanies shs ld contend for when
discussions do take place Tekio (sToP)
We agree companies should contimue to deeline to cuote crude for
Manchuria
ORVILLE HAIDEN

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.93)
DRAFT OF CABLEGRAM
OYOOHAMA.
DAT11NOTIM
Referring your telegran November 7th consensus of opinion our and
British interests in Londen in whieh we eonour that mo reply be mmde
to Gevermment November l5th because to do so would be tamtemount te
aeceptanee of a provision whieh we consider definitely jeepardises emr
entire imvestment and general interests and which requires further
prefound eonsideration STop Understand Asiatie representative Yokohama
fully advised regarding this Therefore suggest immediate consultatiom
with him so that united front can be mintained.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 1l, 1934.
Tokyo's despatoh No. 1042 of Novem-
ber 2, 1934, in regard to the oil situa-
tion in Japan.
No aotion required.
The despatoh under reference trans-
mits to the Department a copy of the
Foreign Office's memorandum or Ootober 3l,
1934, in reply to the oral representa-
tions made on September 25 by the Ameri-
can Embassy (for tert of these repre-
sentations see Department's telegram 162
of September 21, 8 p.m., attached).
The Embassy states that, except for
the opening sentence, identic copies of
the Foreign Office memorandum, a summary
of which was submitted to the Department
by telegram, were sent to the British
Embassy and to the Netherland Legation as
a reply to previous representations made
by the offices named.
You will of course recall that the
above-mentioned reply of the Japanese
Government was in no way satisfactory to
the foreign oil interests concerned.
RCM:EJL

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 2, 1934.
No. 1042.
Subject: American Oil Interests in Japan.
4l
3TV
901 A6
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.6363/126
NOV 21 1934
618
994.6363
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
dated October 19, 1934, and to previous correspondence in
regard to the problems of the American and other foreign
oil interests in Japan and to report that no important
developments have taken place during the past two weeks
except the receipt of a reply from the Foreign Office
to the Embassy's oral representations of September
FLLED
25, 1934, made in compliance with the Department's
76
telegraphic instruction No. 162, September 21, 8 p.m.
The
F1

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The reply from the Foreign Office was in the form
of an informal memorandum, dated Öctober 31, 1934, of
which identic copies (except for the opening sentence)
were sent to the American and British Embassies and the
Netherlands Legation. A translation of the memorandum
has been made and checked 'ith the British and Netherlands
translations, and therefore is believed to be accurate.
The gist of the memorandum was contained in y telegram
No. 241, November 1, 6 p.m., and the ful1 text is trans-
1/ mitted herewith. The memorandum, it will be observed,
gives no assurances that the foreign oil companies
will be able to continue their present business indefi-
nitely, but rather implies that should the present rate
of annual increase of denand decline, the allotments of
the foreign firms will be decreased; it states definitely
that it is Japan's policy in general to refine iported
crude oil rather than to import the refined products, and
that therefore the increase in demand will first be al-
lotted to such refining plants as huve idle equipment
and the remainder will be allotted to other refiners and
importers; it vaguely invites the importers of gasoline
to import crude oil and refine it in Jipan and states
that permission to conduct such refining will be more
easily obtained if more than half of the capital of the
company is Japanese; it disclaims any intention on the
part of the Government to take over the companies' stocks
of oil except in case of urgent necessity and then only at
current prices; and it further disclaims any intention of
arbitrarily regulating the market prices of oils, although
the

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
the right to regulate prices is reserved for use when con-
sidered necessary for the public welfare or for the in-
terests of industry. No mention is made in the memorandum
of the burdensome stock-holding recuirements, which were
the principal subject of our representations to the J pa-
nese Government.
The Foreign Office memorandum is considered as most
unsatisfactory by the American and british oil interests
in Japan. Not only does it not agree to any concessions
in regard to stock-holding requirements, but its assurances
as to the future business of the foreign oil companies are
too vague and too greatly hedged with conditions to be ac-
ceptable. Tne only concession made is the somewhat dubious
one of informing the oil companies that they will be better
off if they agree to refine in Japan, instead of importing
the refined products, especially if they give Japanese capital
the controlling interest in the refineries. It is not be-
lieved that either the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company or the
Rising Sun Petroleum Company is as yet ready to turn its
business over to Japanese interests in the manner indicated.
From the tone of the memorandum it would appear that
the Japanese are not inclined to recede from their stand
in regard to the control of the oil situation in Japan. The
TOKYO ASAHI, however, on November 1, 1934, published an
article indicating that the Government is considering some
measures which will impose less burdensome restrictions on
the foreign firms. The article states that the Japanese
Government recognized the losses which would be caused to
the oil companies as a result of the stock-holding
requirements

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
requirements of the Petroleum Industry Law, but could not
itself bear the cost of storage of oil. It is now of the
opinion that the position of the oil firms should be re-
considered, and may take some administrative measures to
relax the strain on the foreign companies, such as extending
the period in which the storage requirements have to be met
or revising the import quotas, according to the ASAHI.
No further steps have been taken by the foreign oil
companies in the matter of complying with the stock-holding
demands of the Petroleum Industry Law. They are now marking
time in the hope that some amelioration may be obtainable.
Respectfully yours,
o<
Joseph C. Grew.
Copy of Foreign Uffice memorandum,
October 31, 1934.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No /
to despatch
51042 0922.2.1934 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
(SEAL OF FOREIGN OFFICE)
Memorandum.
The Imperial Japanese Government has carefully
deliberated upon the question of the oil industry, con-
cerning which the American Chargé d'Affairs ad interim
on September 25, 1934, called on and conversed with the
Minister for Foreign Affairs. The object of the Petro-
leum Industry Law and the policy of the Imperial Japa-
nese Government in the application of the same are as
stated below and there is no intention thereby to de-
prive those engaged in the oil industry of security in
their operations. The Imperial Japanese Government
accordingly hopes that the American oil companies con-
cerned may be so informed and that they may be urged
to cooperate with the Japanese oil industry in con-
formity with the provisions of the Petroleum Industry
Law.
(1) The requirement that Government sanction must
be obtained annually for the operating plans of an oil
refining business or of an oil importing business is
based on the object of regulating the import, produc-
tion and sale of oil, together with that of guiding
and supervising the achievement of smooth operations in
the industry; there is no intention of ignoring the
interests of those engaged in the oil industry or of
impairing the continuous character of the industry.
Accordingly, in the enforcement of the Petroleum
Industry Law, so long as the Japanese oil demands con-
tinue their present tendency to increase year after
year

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
year, no restriction below the limits of their business
prior to the enforcement of the Law will be imposed upon
the operations of those engaged in the oil industry.
(2) In future the distribution among those
engaged in the industry of an increase in the demand
for oil is to be determined at the time of annual
sanction of operating plans, regard being paid to the
trend of domestic supply and demand, circumstances in
the oil refining industry, the situation in the oil
importing business, and various other conditions,
although this cannot be definitely determined in
advance. But as Japan generally speaking stands in
the position of desiring the refining of i..ported crude
oil rather than the importation of the refined product,
and in view of the existing situation of idle refining
plants, it is intended, first of all, to allot to them
such amounts of the increase in demand as are suitable
for rational operation, and to allot fairly the remainder
to all refiners and importers.
(3) The granting or denying of permission for
oil refining operations will be decided in actual cases
by deliberations of the Petroleum Committee, regard
being paid to the trend of domestic supply and demand,
the circumstances of those engaged in refining, and
various other conditions, although it will be difficult
to announce the granting or denying of permission un-
less the above committee has received for consideration
concrete operating plans. But those companies engaged
in the importation of gasoline may, within the limits of
the

=== Page 175 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
the volume of imports allotted to them in accordance
with the two preceding paragraphs, import, in place
of refined products, crude oil, and in the cases of
those undertaking such domestic refining operations,
except in special circumstars, sanction may be ob-
tained comparatively easily; particularly, those enter-
prises of more than half Japanese capital will find it
conducive to the smooth carrying out of operations,
and a result will be brought about of sanction being
granted all the more easily.
(4) Although the Government may, according to
the stipulations of Article 6 of the Petroleum In-
dustry Law, in cases where the urgent public interest
demands it, purchase oil owned by those engaged in the
oil industry, nevertheless the market price will be made
the standard according to the above-mentioned Article
and Article 8 of the Enforcing Act, and there will be no
unfair pressure upon those engaged in the industry.
Secondly, the companies engaged in the oil industry may
in principle sell oil freely within the limits of opera-
ting plans approved by the Government, and the Government
will not interfere arbitrarily with the selling-price
of oil. However, the Government in order to protect
the public interest and the interests of industry in
general may, when there is a recognized necessity in
accordance with Article 7 of the Petroleum Industry Lew,
order changes in the selling price, but there is no in-
tention of disturbing industrial equilibrium or of im-
pairing the interests of those engaged in the industry.
FAS.
October 31, 1934.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26BROADWAY
NEW YORK
197 2904
Hoventer 19th, 1934.
November 20 1984
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Cnief,
Division of Fer Eastern Affairs,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Depertment of State,
NOV 20 1934
Washington, D. C.
894.6363/127
Departraout of State
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
teay
Confinming our telephone conversation
of this morning, I heve pleasure in attac ing a copy of
Mr. Orville Harden's message to r. W. C. Teagle and
Mr. J. A. Brown, cf Nevemter 15th, which is in effect
an elaboraticn upon the message "eceived frcm our
Yokohame Office Hoveiter 14tn, the substance cf which we
understand was in turn passed or  yeu by Mr. Teagle in
is recent ietter.
We greutly appreciate the assistance
you are rendering us.
Sincerely yours,
Ley f. bor
KFC:M
Kersey F. Coe.
ATTACH.
F/G

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.97)
UP-POA-A
INCOMING MESSAGE
From ORVILLE HARDEN LONDON
ToW.C. TEAGLE NEW YORK
dNOV. 15/34 FH 35
Ans'd by letter.
Dated
Ans'd by wire
Tim rec'd8:42 AM
Date NOV. 157n
CDE
?•SUBJECT TO CORRECTION
For W.C. Teagle J.A. Brown
Friends have following telegram from their Yokohama representative s
(QuoTE) Referring to your telegram 12th this month edvisine you do
not wish to comply with Japanese request s etc (STOP)
After full discussion with Embassy and friends who have received
similar instructions it has been decided best method is to reply
Mining Bureau requesting further delay submittin information until
negotiations proceeding now between government s concerning cur
position under the law have progressed further and our prinsipal s
can reach decision-s (STOP)
We and friends will act accordingly tomorrow and Britisb Embassy
American Embassy will support (SToF)
Referring to your advice you do not wish even combined discussion
between Japanese Government and two companies to take place et:
(STOP)
Please refer to our telegram Nov 8th advisine Japanese represente-
tive-s stated to Brit sh Embassy Dutch Embessy JE would be glad
in conjunction with Conmerce Vice Minister to see us end elucidate
point-s we wished to raise (STOF)
When 'invitation' was extended to friends throu h American Embessy
latter stated they understood matters were entirely in the hands
of prircipals and local representative can rot conmit themselves
in any way with respect to law but forei'n office rerresentative s
stated that they and Commerce Vice Minister wished to make some
explanation-s concerning law and regulations and their operations
(STOP)
In view of foregoine and also because they consider it impelit 
for us to refuse to hear what officials have to say British Ambas
sador American Ambassador both consider we end friends can resrond
to invitation without cormittin ourselves and should do so end
if you agree we propose acting eccordingly (UnovoTE)
After consultation with us friends have answered to Yokohame rep
resentative-s (QuoTE) Regarding requesting further delay ete we
agree (STOP)
Regarding invitation without committin ourselves ete we acree
but you must make it quite clear you are there to hear what they
have to say and are not in a position to diseuss as ali decisions
rest with your principals (UIQUOTE)
While reply to Yokohama contrary to earlier concluslon believe
you will agree procedure row pioposed in view of informa  on and
recommendations from Yokohame (SToF)
Perhaps Shanghai would be desirable meetins place Godber eere S.
Walden Parker
ORVILLE HARDEN

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
(Rary
November 20 1984
894.6863/127
dear Mr. Cos:
I eekmowledge with thanks the receipt of your letter
of Mevember 19 and of the copy attached thereto of a eable
894.6363/127
from Lomden addressed to Mr. Teagle and Mr. Browm by Mr.
Orville Harden whieh outlines certain recent developments
in regard to the Japanese Petroleum Industry Law.
With reference to the concluding sentence of Mr.
Harden's telegram under reference, wherein the suggestion
is made that Shanghai might be a desirable meeting place
for the representatives of the respective oil companies,
I trust that in due course you will inform the Department
of the decision reached and also whether the appropriate
Japenese authorities have been, or will be, informed of the
fact that senior officers of the concerned companies are
now en route to Japan.
As of interest in connection with the proposed oil
monopoly in Manchuria, there is quoted below the text of a
somewhat
793.6363
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
Standard Vacuum Oil Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
mescived by the Ameriean Legatiom at Peiping from the
Amsrisem Censul General at Mukden and relayed to the Depart-
most under date November 16.
"November 14, 8 p. m. Japanese press this
evening contains è further government announeement
regardins oil polioy in expansion of statement
enelesed in my despateh No. 2 of November 5 and
the text of two laws said to have been promulgated
law for the purehase or the equipment of existing
businesses.
"The first law provides that only persons
lieensed by the government may manufacture or
impert petroleum produets anc may sell only to
the government. Retail sales shall be handled by
exelusive agents designated by the government.
Exelusive sales agents may be required to store a
specified amount of petroleum. There is provision
for government inspeotion of the places of business,
for registration, books, et cetera, for searches and
seisures and for penalty for law. No provision is
made for qualifications of exclusive agents; in
faot law is so general that it is impossible to
determine from its provisions its effect upon foreign
oil companies.
"The second law provides for purohase by the
government of the equipment of those in the
petroleum business who are forced out of business
by the monopoly law at a valuation to be fixed by
an appraisal commission the organization of which
is to be determined by ordinance.
"The date of enforcement of these laws, and
regulations covering exclusive agents and other
matters are to be fixed by the Minister of Finance."
In considering the foregoing ennouncement of the "Manchukuo"
government, you will of course note that the information was
obtained

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.90)
estaimed frem a Japanese press repert which may er may
met sespeetly state the views of the "Nasehakme" regime.
sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of state:
St
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
A true copy of
o. 21.194
original maded
fdcoming
to Jme.
naws
m.m.
FE:RCM:REK
FE
11/20/34

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.95)
MENT OF STATE
kH
193 V 2 AV 9 39
The SHOREHAM
Resort Hotet in the Natons Capital
OF
COTONS
894.6363
Washunoton.D.C.
894.6363/128
November 15, 1934.
Dr. Stanley Hornbeck,
Nove.
State Department,
Auid
RS
Far Eastern Division,
Washington, D.C.
16
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Gould, the local manager of the Standard-Vacuum iny
Japan, has advised by cable that, on the fourteenth instant,
the Shell Company sent a cable to their head office in London
reading as follows:
"After full discussion with Embassy and friends it has
been decided best method is to reply to communioation
from Oommerce Department of November 5th requesting
further delay in submitting information until negoti-
ations now proceeding between Governments concerning
our position under the law have progressed further and
our prinoipals can reach decision".
The above quoted cable seems to me to be entirely in
F/FG
accordance with the procedure discussed at our meeting with
you on Wednesday morning last.
With very kindest regards, I am,
Very truly yours,
W. I. Veagle
FLED
WOT:F

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.90)
FE
(lecm
4-6363
November 21 1956
Deee r. Tongles
894.6363/128
Tour letter of Nevember 15, 19s4, in regard to the
Gosssien reashed by the Shell interests in Japen to re
guest of the Jegemese satherities an extension of the
pected in shich required informatien my be sutmitted in
omsetiem with the Japanese Petroleum Industry Lav,
resahed us in due course.
We mave just reseived a letter from Mr. Cee mder
t e  , by  of an mld  of
Er. artem's telegram to you and to Mr. Brom wméer date
Merember 15, supplements and amplifies the ixformatiom
givem us in your letter mder referenée.
Your eceperetion and that of your asscciates im keep-
ing the Depertment eurrently informed of developmemts in
regard to the subject under diseussiom is appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
NOV 21 19
A true copy of
TKH
The straed origi-
nat.
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Mr. Walter C. Teagle,
30 Roekefeller Plaza,
Raw
FE:RCM:EJLNew York, New YorkFE
11/21/34

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.96)
gile
Division of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
198
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
27
NOV 30 1934
MENDROECRETARY
6343
RECEIVER
pM
note
NOV ? 3
., Novembe
OF
DIVIST
NOV23
EAIRS
Memorandum of d
Rovember 32nd.
WESTEPN EUROPEAN
The British Ambassador asked me Whether I felt that
we were satisfied with the cooperation of the British with
respeot to the oil probleme in Japan and in "Manchukuo."
I recited briefly our policy of declared willingness to co-
894.6363/1
operate with the British and reminded him that they had taken
the first step with us, to which we had replied most sympa-
thetioally; that we had made certain representations in
Tokyo and that it was, in our opinion, up to the oil companies
themselves to make their independent representations, as they
29
were apparently planning to do now by sending their repre-
sentatives to Tokyo; so far as the oil situation in Japan
was concerned, it seemed to me that it was largely a busi-
ness proposition and that, unless the oil companies took a
decided position themselves, it was somewhat difficult for
this government to act.
The Ambassador gave the impression that the Foreign
Office was slightly piqued at our attitude in trying to throw
the greater responsibility for action upon the British Govern-
ment, to which I replied that we naturally assumed they desired
to take it, inasmuch as they had the larger interests and that
FOLED
if

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDERSECRETARY
if the British and Dutoh interests were lumped together,
which in my own mind I always did, surely the British inter-
ests involved were overwhelmingly greater than the American
interests.
h.P.
William Phillips.
U WP/AB

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.93)
1
FAh L A
NOV 22 1034
Department of State
Novomber 22, 1934.
Memorandum of conversation wi th the Britiah Ambaseador,
November 33nd.
The British Ambassador asked me whether I felt that
we were satisfied with the cooperation of the British with
respeot to the oil probleme in Japan and in "Manchukuo."
I recited bri fly our policy of clare  willin ness to o-
operate with the Britian nu reminted him th t ney nad t ken
the first step with us, to which e  replied most sympa-
thetically; that we nad made certain repres-nt tions in
Tokyo and that it was, in ur  inion, up to the oil companies
themselves to mke t eir iup nuent r pre en tions, us they
were apparently .lan in to o no by sen in their repre-
aentatives to Tokyo; so far as the uil ituation in J pan
was concerneu, 1t seemed to me that it as lar ely a busi-
ness proposition and that, unless the oil companies took a
decideu position themselves, it was someshat ifficult for
this overnment to act.
The Ambas sador gave the impression that the Foreign
Office was sli htly piqued at our attitude in trying to throw
the :reater responsibiiity for action u on the Bri tish Govern-
ment, to which I replie: that we naturally assumed they desired
to take it, inas uoh as they nad the larer inter sts and that
is

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.91)
2
if the British and Dutoh interests were lumped together,
which in my own mind I always did, surely the British inter-
ests involved were overwhelmingly reater  an the Am rican
interests.
1111amil1i8.
U WP/AB

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.95)
Novamhar 27 1984
MVEMENTIAL - POR STAFF USE ONLY.
622
The Hetorable
894.6363/129
Robert Werth Bingham,
Amerisan Ambassador,
London.
S181
There is enolosed, for your personal and con-
fidential information, a copy of a memorandum of the
the Lader Secretary
oeavereation which/Mr. Phillips, had with the British
Ambassador on Movember 32, 1934, in regard to oil problems
in Japan and in "Manohukuo."
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
William Phillips
Enclosure:
Memorandum of conversation,
November 22, 1934.
894.6363/139
PM
NOV
amw
1984
WE:JFH: ASD
11/84

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1934
yeto
E
OFSIALJDIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 23, 1934.
Conversation.
Mr. Kersey F. Coe, of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company.
894.6363
Mr. Hornbeck.
me
993
Subject:
Japanese retroleum Law and "Manchukuo"
Petroleum Monopoly, and Related
Developments and Problems.
894.6363/130
Mr. Hornbeck called Mr. Coe on long-distance tele-
phone. Mr. Hornbeck said that he had some information
to impart and a question to ask. He then gave Mr. Coe
the substance of Peiping's telegram 535, November 23,
3 p.m. Mr. Coe said that he had seen substantially that
information in the press. Mr. Hornbeck then inquired
what was Mr. Coe's understanding with regard to the sub-
jects which the representatives of the oil companies now
en route to Japan would discuss with the Japanese authori-
ties: was it to be the Japanese situation and the
Manchuria situation or only one of the two. Mr. Coe
replied that he understood that it was to be the Japanese
situation only; that there had seemingly been some dif-
FTLFD
ference of opinion with regard to what was advisable in
that connection; and that possibly as the situation unfolded
they would discuss both. Mr. Hornbeck inquired whether
Mr. Coe knew what was the view of the British oil interests.
F
Mr. Coe
G

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Mr. Coe said that he thought that they were inclined to
link the two subjeots but that he was not certain. Mr.
Hornbeck requested that, if Mr. Coe obtained anything more
definite on that point, he let us know. Mr. Coe said that
he would do so.
Mr. Hornbeck then inquired whether Mr. Coe had any-
thing new with regard to these matters. Mr. Coe said that
he had nothing. Mr. Hornbeck inquired whether there was
anything new with regard to London. Mr. Coe replied that
he understood that the British interests there had again
been assured by the Foreign Office that the Foreign Office
would take further action and that it would probably be
early next week. Mr. Hornbeck inquired whether Mr. Coe
knew anything about the nature of the action thus contem-
plated. Mr. Coe said that he did not and apparently the
British interests did not.
Mr. Coe then said that he was just preparing something
to send to us, the latest communications which he had
received. Mr. Hornbeok inquired whether Mr. Coe knew
whether his representative, Goold, in Japan, had informed
the American Ambassador of the expedition of representatives
of the interested companies to Japan. Mr. Coe said that
11
11
he had no doubt but that Goold had done so. (NOTE: It was
evident that Mr. Coe had no definite information to that
effeot: he was merely making a confident assumption.)
Mr. Hornbeok

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.97)
-3 -
Mr. Hornbeck indicated that he would be glad to
receive the material which Mr. Coe was preparing to send
us; and the conversation there ended.
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.93)
Cohy sent to Tokyo Dec.3
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NOV 22 1934
gdo
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of State
r0y
(cm)
November 17, 1934.
Conversation.
Mr. A. F. H. Niggin, C.M.G.,
First Secretary, British Embassy.
120
Mr. Hornbeck.
jubject:
Japanese ietroleum lonopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
894.6363/131
794.631
Mr. Viggin called me on the 'phone and said that
the British Embassy had a telegram from the British
Foreign Office instructing them to ask us "to tell them
what we know about the oil situation in Japan and
Manchuria." I said that that was a very broad inquiry
and that it is our impression that the British Foreign
Office knows all that we know about the matter and perhaps
more. Mr. Jiggin said that the imbassy was perplexed over
the instruction. After some conversation, I suggested
that the Embassy tell the Foreign Office that we would be
very glad to give them any particular information which
they may seek if they will be so good as to make the
inquiry somewhat more specific. Mr. liggin said that he
thought that was quite the right thing for them to do.
The conversation there ended.
2LED
SKH
See memoranduum
of sr00. 19, 1934 on same subjict.
F
G
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
11
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ygem
November 19, 1934.
Coky aent to Jokys
Conversation.
Mr. A. F. H. Wiggin, C.M.G.,
Division of
First Secretary, British Embassy JAR EAsTErN AFfAIRS
Mr. Hornbeck.
NOV 22 1934
894.6363/1
Department of State
Related Developments and Problems.
794.6363
Reference, my memorandun of conversation with Lr.
1131
Wiggin on the same subject on November 17.
I called Mr. Wiggin on the 'phone this morning and said
32
to him, referring back to our conversation of the l7th, that
I would be glad to give him, for the British Embassy's infor-
mation, an account of certain points which might be interesting
and helpful to the Embassy. Mr. Wiggin came to my office. I
said to Mr. Wiggin that the British and the American Govern-
ments have each taken certain steps, through their respective
Ambassadors in Tokyo, with regard to these oil questions and
that, so far as we know, there has been a complete exchange
of information with regard to each such step taken. I told
Mr. Wiggin of the meeting of the representatives of the
oil companies concerned, in London; and I said that we had
reason to believe that the British interests have been in
close touch with the British Foreign Office and have kept
the Foreign Office informed. I said that we had made it
F
known
See memnandun 7 Nn. 17,1934
in same subjict

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
known to the Foreign Office through our Embassy in London
many weeks ago that, in reply to an approach made by the
Foreign Office to the Embassy, on the subject of cooperative
action, we would be prepared to "give sympathetic considera-
tion" to any suggestions which the British Foreign Office
might care to make. I said that we had since then had no
word from the British Foreign Office on this subject; but
that on November 12 we had been informed by the American
interests that they had been informed by the British interests
that there was reason to believe that the British Foreign
Office would make some move "before the end of the week"
(November 17). I said that we had had no further word in
the matter. I concluded with the statement that I was
giving this information simply for the purpose of orienting
the Embassy and not with any intent of suggesting to the
Embassy that it report further to the Foreign Office on the
subject: but that the Embassy might perhaps tell the Foreign
Office that we had given them this account of the matter
and had said that we believed that the Foreign Office, by
virtue of the fact that the oil interests have been conferring
in London, was probably more completely informed of the views
of the interests, especially the British interests, and the
plans of the interests, arrived at at London, than are we.
I said that I believed that the attitude of the Foreign
orfice

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
Office with regard to the whole matter is identical with
ours and that we are assuming that the Foreign Office will
make suggestions when it considers doing so opportune and
convenient.
Mr. Wiggin thanked me for imparting this information.
He said that the Embassy had reported on the conversation
held on Saturday and had asked the Foreign Office for
clearer instruction.
The conversation there ended.
S14
SKH/REK

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY
November 19, 1934.
Conversation.
Mr. A. F. H. Wiggin, C.M.G.,
First Secretary, British Embassy.
Mr. Hornbeck.
Subject:
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Troblems.
Reference, my memorandum of conversation with Mr.
Wiggin on the same subject on November 17.
I called ir. igrin on tie Inhone this morning and said
to him, referring back to our conversation of the 17th, that
I would be glad to give him, for the British mbassy's infor-
mation, an account of certain noints whicr might be interest-
ing and helpful to the mbassy. Mr. iggin came to my office.
(2
I said to Mr. igrin that the British and the American Govern- 
ments lave each taken certain steps, through their respective
Ambassadors in Tokyo, with regard to these oil questions and
C2
that, so far as we know, there has been a complete exchange
2
of information with regard to each such step taken. I told
Mr. Wiggin of the meeting of the representatives of the
oil companies concerned, in Iondon; and I said that we had
reason to believe that the British interests have been in
close touch with the British Foreign Office and have kept
the Foreign Office informed. I said that we had made it
known to the Foreign Office through our Embassy in London
many weeks ago that, in reply to an approach made by the
Foreign Office to the Embassy, on the subject of cooperative
action,

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
action, we would be prepared to "give sympathetic considera-
tion" to any suggestions which the British Foreign Office
might care to make. I said that we had s nce then had no
word from the British loreign Office on this subject; but
that on November 1 we had been in ormed by the American
interests that trey had been informed by the British interests
that there was reason to believe that the British Foreign
Office would make some move "before tle end of the week"
(November 17). I said that we had had no further word in
the matter. I concluded ith tle statement that I was
giving this information simply for the purpose of orienting
the Embassy and not with any intent of suggesting to the
Embassy that it report furti er to the Foreign Office on the
subject: but that the Embassy mirht perhaps tell the Foreign
Office that we had given them this account of the matter
and had said that we believed that the Foreign Office, by
virtue of the fact that tre oil interests have been conferring
in London, was probably more completely informed of the views
of the interests, especially the Dritish interests, and the
plans of the interests, arrived at at London, then are we.
I said that I believed that the attitude of the Foreign
Office with regard to the whole matter is identical with
ours and that we are assuming that the Foreign Office will
make suggestions when it considers doing so opportune and
convenient.
Mr. Wiggin

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
Mr. iggin thanked me for imparting this information.
He said that the Embassy had reported on the conversation
held on Saturday and had asked the Foreign Office for
clearer instruction.
The conversation t: ere ended.
SKH/REK

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.93)
Z
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
SPECIAL, GRAY
RB
1-1800
Tolayo
FROM
yle
Dated Hovenber 24, 1934
cod :15 a. m.
Ielegom to Tohyo.
Division of
Secretary of State
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Letu to Wn co
Standand Dacueme Co
NOV 24 1934
We shin. ton.
2n2.24,1934
RCu
894.6363
258, Hovember 24, 3 p7 m.
-oeal pana or Sta dard V eau. Oil Combny renuests
the  sassy to send the f llowiny nessa e in code to the
Demrt.ent for cormunication to company's or cipa's in
8
6
Now Yerk. The British E bassy is sending a similer message
94.6363/133
in code to London for the R sing Sun Ce pany. For explana-
tory comment in conneetion with the followins messa e
1135
please refer to my 257, Nove ber 24, 1o a. m.
Roferring to
"Standard Yacuun Oil Company New York.
1136
our catle of Noverber 23rd. In private conversation with
at
important Foreign Office representative who was rot
interview, it was intimated that the sugrested prccuaure
with form 4 and Government's renresentatlons along the line
indicated would assist him and Co merce Vice Minisher to
influence other government departments who were insisting
on upholding compulsory stock rogulations. Unless it
would prejudice any action contemplated by you and govern-
A
ments we and friends after full discussions with Eba
consider it oxpedient to adopt compromise suggested
Commerce Vice

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
RB
2-258, November 24, 3 p. m. from
Tokyo
Commerce Vice Minister and comnlete form 4 provisionally
with covering letter reading in part, as follows:
"This
(alteration
is boing submitted subject to
and conditional
upon a decision of our principals as to whether or to
what extent they aro able to continue business in Japan
under the conditions imposed by the petroleum industry law."
If accepted this will enable us nominally to conform with
regulations but without commitment and at the same time in
the opinion of the Erbassics will not necessarily procludo
furthor diplomatic conversations should they be desirable.
From cur intorviow it would soem that government is showing
more reasonalbe attitude but at the same timo is desirous
of making issue purely commercial and eliminating
diplomatic representations as far as possiblo. cnds
and wo are in agreoment and they have cabled similar views
to London. Goold."
GREW
CSB

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.84)
Hovember 26, 195&.
894.6363/133
Gear . Gee:
The Ameriean Embassy at Tekyo, in respease to a
request frem the manager in Japen of the Stendard-Vaesm
G11 Oampany, has, in a eable under date November 24,
1954, ferwarded to the Department for transmissien to
the Stamdart-Vasum O11 Company a messege whieh I at
emee attempted to relay to you by meens of a leng-distamee
telepheme call. As the telephone eompany was wnable to
make the nesessery commeetious either with you or with
amy ether semier offieer of your company, there is quoted
belew the text of the message as received by the Depart-
mont:
"Stamdard Yasum Gil Gompemy Now York.
privete cenvereatien with impertent Fereign
view, it was iatimated that the segessted pwo-
.asey7.G00
stemterd-Tee 011 Gemgpens.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.96)
Miniater end cemplete ferm é previsienally with
"This is being submitted mabjeet to alteratiem
end eonditional upom a decision of cur primeipals
as to whether er to what ertent they are able to
centinue business iz Japan under the conditiems
impesed by the petroloum industry law.' If
aecepted this will enable us neminally te conform
with regulations but without sommitment and at
the same time in the opinion of the Embassies will
not mesesserily preelude further diplemstie com-
versetions should they be desirable. From our
interview it would seem that government is shew-
ing more reasonable attitude but at the same time
is desirous of making issue purely comereial and
eliminating diplomatic representations as far as
possible. Friends and we are in agreement and
they have cabled similar views to London. Goeld."
The Amerioan Embassy, in tranemitting the above message,
reports its understanding that the British Embassy at Tokyo
1s sending a similar message to London for the Rising Sun
Company.
Subsequent to the receipt of the Ameriean Embassy's
telegram under reference, there was received by the Depart-
ment a second telegram from the Embassy, also under date
November 24, whioh offers comments in regard to various
factors in the situation outlined in the above-quoted message
from your representative in Japan. As the information thus
imparted to the Department may have an important bearing
upon

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.94)
n the decisiens to be reashed by it end by yeur eampeny
wish regard to yossible future couress of aetsem, your
aampany may wich to mend to Weshingten at an early date a
sepreseatative to diseuss the matter crally.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chief,
Division of Far Bastern Affairs.
▲ true cop
the signed
inal.
EE/3m
reaus
FE:RCM/ZMK
FE

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.95)
RB
SPECIAL, GRAY
Tckyo
Datad Jovenber 24, 1934
15a.
Secretary of State
We shin ton.
258, Hovember 24, 3 p. m.
Loeal pana er Sta dard Veat Oil Company recuests
the  bassy to send the f llowin messa e in code to the
Departpent for cormunication to company's praucipals in
Now York. The British E bassy is sending a similar message
in code to Londen for the R sirs Sun Co. many. For explana-
1133
tory conment in connection with the following message
please refer to my 257, Noveber 24, 10 a. m.
"Standard acuum Oil Coapany New York. Roferring to
our catle of Noverber 23rd. In private conversation with
important Foreign Office representative who was rernt at
interview, it was intimatod that the suggested precedure
with form 4 and Government's renresentations along the line
indicated would assist him anl Commerce Vice Minister to
influence other government departments who were insisting
on upholding compulsory stock rogulations. Unloss it
would prejudice any action contemplated by you and govern-
ments we and friends after full discussions with Embacsies
consider it expedient to adopt compromise suggested by
Commerce Vice

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
2-258, November 24, 3 p. m. from
Tolyo
Commerce Vice Minister and comnlote form 4 provisionally
with covoring letter reading in part, as follows: "This
(aiteration?)
is boing submitted subject to alternation and conditional
upon a decision of our principals as to whether or to
what extent they are able to continue susiness in Ju an
under the conditions imposed by the petroleum industry law."
If acceoted this will enable us nominally to confern with
regulations but  tiout commitnent and at the sare time in
tho opinion of the E bacsies will nct necessarily procludo
further diplomatic couversatios should they be desirable.
Fror cur intorview it would s em that government is showing
more reasonalbe attitude but at the samo timo is desirous
of making issue puroly commercial and eliminabing
diplomatic representations as far as possiblo. Trionds
and we are in agreoment and they have cabled similer vievs
to London. Goold."
GRE
CSB

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.90)
In reply refer to
PE 894.0363/136
November 24, 1934.
My Gear Mr. Coe:
The Ameriean abessy at Tokyo, in responee to a
request from the manager in Japun of the tanderd-Veoum
O11 Compamy, hes, in a cable under date November 24,
l93e, forwarded to the Department for tranamiasion to
the Standard-Vaouum 0il company a message whioh I at
W
onoe attempted to relay to you by means of e long-distanee
w
telephone sall. s the telephone company wes umeble to
W
make the neceasery conneotions either with you or with
W
any other senior officer of your coapany, there is quoted
below the text of the message as rooeived by the opart-
ment !
"Standard Vaeuum Oil Jompany How York.
Roferring to our oable of Novenber ßrd. In
private conversation with important Foreign
Orfioe representative who was present at Inter
view, it was intimated that the sugsested pro-
cedure with form 4 and Government's represente-
tions along the line indioated would ussist him
and
Mr. Keraey F. Coe,
Standard-Vaouum Oil Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, Now York.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.95)
and Cemmeree Viee Minister to influenee ether
soverament departmente who were insisting en
upheleins eempulsery steek regulations. Unless
it would prejudiee aay aetlon contemplated by
you and governments we and friends after full
diseussioms with mbessies consider it expedient
to méept eompromise sumsested by Commeree vise
Minieter end complete form 4 provisionally with
covering letter reading in part, as follows:
This is being submitted mubject to alteration
and sonditional upon a decision of cur primeipals
as to whether'or to what extent they are able to
centinue business in Japan under the conditions
imposed by the petroloum industry law.' If
seeepted this will enable us nominally to eonform
with regulations but without commitment and at
the same time in the opinion of the Embassies will
not neeessarily preelude further diplomutio com-
versations should they be dosirable. From our
interview it would seem that goverrunent is shew-
ing more roasonable attitude but at the mame time
1s desirous of making issuo purely sommeroial and
eliminating diplomatio representations as far es
possible. Priende and we are in agreement and
they have oabled similer viows to Jondon. Coold."
The Amerioan mbeasy, in tranamitting the above meseage.
roports its understanding that the iritish Embassy at Tokyo
is sonding e similar messae to london for the ising un
Company.
Subseguent to the reoeipt of the merioen smbasay's
telogram under referenoe, there wes received by the Depart-
ment a second telegran fran the fmbassy, also under date
Hovember 24, whioh offera comments in regard to verious
faotors in the situation outlined in the above-quoted message
from your ropresentative in Jepan. s the information thus
imparted to tho Department may have an important bearing
upon

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.88)
-3-
pom the deeisions to be ronohed by 1t and by your sompany
with rogard to posuible future oourses of aotion, your
eompany may wlah to wend to ashington ut on varly date a
reprepontetive t disouos the tter orally.
yto
1n
efoir.
FE:ROM/ZMK
FE

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.73)
11/6/31
neer b
"L'DS
". Bait fo....d
In my Eatina
tiom ite attached
tiligian
no acin i it
Refa Emi
leal n action fr
it frsemnt
So yum camaur?
reau

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.93)
E
(eem
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
D
This tologram shoula be
closoly paraphrasod be-
Tokyo,
fore baing communicated
to any onc (B)
FROM
Dated Novomber 6 1934,
Roc'd 9:30 A. N.
gele
Se rotary of State,
Pivicicn of
Washington.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1934
894.6363/134
244, November 6, 7 p. m.
Degartment of State
Department's 184, October 31, p. m.
57
One. The foreign oil companies have today re pived
letters from the Ministry of Commorco and Industry requir-
ing thom to submit their liport and storage plans by
Novomber 15th. Thc letters conelude with a statoment of
which the following is a ranslation:
"In case you fail to respond to our roquest promptly,
a smooth oxocution of your company's bus iness plan for
1935 might be intorfered vith".
Two. The foreign oil interests r gard this as an
ultimatun supported by a thrcat. Consultaticns arc in
progress and.tho foreign oil companies will tolograph
their recommendations to their head offices within a
day or tvo.
CRET.
WSB
IPD
FILEL
F
G

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
This t legram must be
Tokio
closoly paraphrased be-
fore boing-ommunicated
Dated November 24, 1934
FROM
to anyone. (B)
Rec1d 9:50 a.m.
Secrelarj of State,
Jolbgram to Zohyo.
see/139
I.shington.
livision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.6363/135
NOV  1 1934
257, November 24, 10 a.m.
Department of State
200
• An offieial  t De urtnent of omreree
and indusury on llovember 20 a. n requested Goold to
filc the s andard Vacuum Oil o any's complete import
lan for 1035 in diatcl and alled  hat failure to d
so would result in penalization of the company. The
Britiar Oi1 Company was similarly notified.
Two. At an official confurence held later on
November 20 between the Vice Iister for Com erce a.A
Irdustr
and Kurusu on the one  ide, and the reprene ta-
KeUS
tives of the American and ritish Oil ompanies on the
Socomy teliqon
other, Kurusu stated that the Japanese Government
(su/1 36) state
"woned not m
be ipfluenced by representations f the character already
influenced
made by the American, British a c .et erlands Governme ts
into altoring its  etroloum law er abolishing the stok
h lding requirements. The discussions brougnt out the
followin facts:
LE
(A) it might be possible for the foreign oil
companics
F/G

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
S
2-No. 257, November 24, 10 a,m. from Tokio
companies to obtain an official guarantee of their
present volume of trade in all products for a period
of say, ten years, subject to various conditions.
(B) The Japanese Government will give preference
to domestic refineries in trade quotas and will not dis-
criminate against foreign controlled refineries in Japan,
provided that the output of such refineries is kept within
the amount of the trade quotas.
(C) The Japanese Government will give preference
in granting refining licenses to present importers who
may desire to convert their business to refining within
the country.
(D) Kurusu suggested that any governmental repre-
sentations which may be made in the future on the stock
holding requirements should contain more concrete evi-
dence showing that the economic burden and risk of
stock holding are so great that rather than bear thom
the foreign oil companies w ill withdraw from Japan:
In such case, all the Japanese governmental departments
concerned would have to reconsider the question in the
light of alternative sources of supply.
(E) The Vice Minister suggested that, in order to
overcome the present impasse regarding the stock holding
provisions, the Japanese Government will accopt provis-
ional

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
FS
3-No. 257, November 24, 10 a.m., from Tokio
n
ional import plans, conditional upon the foreign oil
companies' decision as to whether or not it will be
economically possible for them to continue in business
in Jafan. The Government will then grant provisional
sales quotas for next year.
(F) No method of compensating tre oil companies
in connection with stock holdin is under consideration
except that of recovering the additional expense from
selling prices.
Three. At a later privatc discussion Kurusu
intimated that a strong attitude on the part of the
foreln companies, such as possible withdrawal from
Ja an, would assist him and the Vice Minister for Comierce
and Industry in influencing the more intransigent govern-
mental departments.
Four. Notwithstanding trhe strong attitude indicated
in paragraph one, it is apparent that the authorities
are now showin a more reasonable attitude. It is also
obviors that they desire to transfer the discussions from
diplomatic to private ciannels. It is believed possible
that their purpose in requesting the data indicated in
sub-paragraph (D) is to acquire evidence which can be used
in applying for some modification of the law in the next
session of the Diet.
Five

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
4-Nc, 257, November 24, 10 a,m,, from Tokyo
Five. The Standard Vacuun Oil Company is asking
its head office for instructions regarding the sub-
mission of provisional plans indicated in sub-para-
graph (E) together with a transmitting letter along
lines suggested by the Vice Minister reading in part
cs follows:
"This is being submitted subject to alteration
and conditional upon a decision of our principals as
to whether or to what extent they are able to continue
business in Japan under the conditions imposed by the
petrolem industry law."
Six. The foregoing plan parmits the American Oil
Company to keep within the law but at the possible risk
of transferring the discussions from diplonatic to
private channels. As the Comyany d es not wish to do
anything which might prejudice any official action
which may be contemplated, the Department's opinion of
the advisability of submittin the plans as above
indicated is requested.
Seven. The British Oil  mpany is similarly
requesting instructions.
GREW
GW:USB

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
FS
This tolegram must be
Tokio
olosoly paraphrasod be-
fore boing communicated
Dated November 24, 1934
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 9:50 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
NOV 24 1934
257, November 24, 10 a.m.
Depertment of State
My 244, November 6, 7 p.m.
O .. An official f the Department of Commerce
and Industry on November 20 again requested Goold to
file the Standard Vacuum Oil Jompany's complete import
636
plan for 1935 innediately and ad led that failure to do
so would result in penalization of the Company. The
w
British Oil Company was similarly notified.
Two. At an official conference held later on
November 20 between the Vice Iinister for Com erce a..d
Industr. and Kurusu on the one side, and the representa-
tives of the American and British Oil Jompanies on the
wrne art i
other, Kurusu stated that the apanese Government i
be influenced by representatjons I the character already
made by the American, British a d Net erlands Governments
into alterin its petroloum law or abolishing the stock
h lding requirements. The discussions brougnt out the
followin facts:
(A) it might be possible for the foreign oil
companies

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
2-No. 257, November 24, 10 a.m. from Tokio
companies to obtain an official guarantee of their
present volume of trade in all products for a period
of say, ten years, subject to various conditions.
(B) The Japanese Government will give preference
to domestic refineries in trade quotas and will not dis-
criminate against foreign controlled refineries in Japan,
provided that the output of such refineries is kept within
the amount of the trade quotas.
(C) The Japanese Government will give preference
in granting refining licenses to present importers who
may desire to convert their business to refining within
the country.
(D) Kurusu suggested that any governmental repre-
sentations which may be made in the future on the stcck
holding requirements should contain more concrete evi-
dence showing that the economic burden and risk of
stock holding are so great that rather than bear them
the foreign oil companies w ill withdraw from Japan.
In such case, all the Japanese governmental departments
concerned would have to reconsider the question in the
light of alternative sources of supply.
(E)
The Vice Minister sugrested that, in order to
overcome the present impasse regarding the stock holding
provisions, the Japanese Government will accept provis-
ional

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
FS
3-No. 257, November 24, 10 a.m., from Tokio
ional import plans, conditional upon the foreign oil
companies' decision as to whether or not it will be
economically possible for them to continue in businoss
1n Jafan. The Government will then grant provisional
sales quotas for next year.
(F) No method of compensating tre oil companies
in connection with stock holdin is under consideration
except that of recovering the additional expense from
selling prices.
Threc. At a later private discussion Kurusu
Intimated that a stron attitude n the part of the
forein companies, such as possible withdrawal from
Ja an, would assist him and th: Vice Minister for Jomuerce
and Industry in influencing the more intransigent govern-
mental.departments.
Four. Notwithstanding tle strong attitude indicated
in paragraph one, it is apparent that the authorities
aro ow showin a more reasonable attitude. It is also
obvio s that thev desire to transier the discussions from
diplomatic to private ciannels. It is believed possiblo
that th ir purpose in requesting the data indicated in
sub-para raph (D) is to acquire evidence w ich can be used
in alyin for some modificatin
of the law in the next
session of the Diet.
Five

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
FS
4-N.. 257, November 24, 10 a.m., from Tokyo
Five. The Standard Vacuiun Oil Company is asking
its head office for instructions regarding the sub-
mission of provisional plans indicated in sub-para-
graph (E) together with a transmitting letter along
linos suggested by the Vice Ministor reading in part
os follovs:
"This is being submitted subject to alteration
and conditional upon a decision of our principals as
to whether or to what extent thy are able to continue
business in Japan under the conditions imposed by the
petroleum industry law."
Six. The foregoing plan p rmits the American Oil
Company to keep within the law but at the possible risk
of transferring the discussions from diplonatic to
private channels. As the Com any d: es not wish o do
anything which might prejudice any official action
which may bo contemplated, the Dopartment's cpinion of
the advisability of submittin, ths plans as above
indicated is requested.
Seven. The British Oil  mpany is similarly
requesting instructions.
GJ: JSB
GREW

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
Noyember 23rd, 1934.
894.6363
Ye
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
vf
ooledged
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
onally. sei mums
Department of State,
NV034
Washington, D.C.
894.6
Depsartment of State
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
13
Confirming our telephone conversation of this
afternoon, we have pleasure in attachinf a cony of Mr. Orville
5
Harden's message of today to Mr. J.A. Brown, which was received
9
through Ir. Teagle's office. As stated, we have no intimation
0.
of the character of the representations the British Foreign Office
11
will make to you in regard to a joint protest to the Japanese Gov-
ernment.
9
VWe also attach a copy of Yokohama's private message
of today, and while we assume the Shell interests in Japan have
cabled similar information to London, nevertheless we have repeated
this message to London, adding as our own observation:
We are inclined to supply the information now demanded con-
ditional that fulfillment will depend on cur later decision
and without our referring to the commercial feasibility
feature referred to SToP In order to continue our present
united stand what course of action do you propose?"
1128
We believe Mr. Teagle repeated to you in his letter of Nov. 15th, the
117
telegram from Japan of Nov. l4th, and in Lir. Parker's letter to you
of Nov. 7th, he quoted in full the message we received that day from
Yokohama. Inasmuch as within the next few days, we shall no doubt
receive a cable from Mr. Goold through the Embassy at Tokyo and
through your good offices, we shall reserve further comment in re-
spect to this message until we have an opportunity of examining the
Tokyo dispatch and also of hearing from the Shell, London.
We have no official advice in regard to the question
of foreign interests participating in the Manchoukuo oil monopoly by
means of shares in wholesale agencies set up under that program. This
news was on the ticker yesterday and an article in similar vein is in
the "Journal of Commerce" today, but inasmuch as we have heard
neither from our Yokohama or Shanghai Office, we are inclined to be-
lieve that if this is an authentic report, and if it has been handed
to our representatives abroad, they are giving it consideration be-
fore passing on their views to us. An examination of our files show no
indication that the British feel the Japan and Manchurian petroIoum

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Dr. Hornbeok.
Nov. 23/34.
problems should be linked, and while the matter has been discussed
here from time to time, we have felt and still believe, that unless
the combining of the two situations will be helpful from a diplo-
matic viewpoint, they should still continue to be treated separately.
However, we are entirely openminded on this and any suggestion from
you in this respect will be greatly appreciated.
We confirm our tlought that unless the situation
materially changes, we believe Mr. Parker and Ir. Walden will confine
their conversations in Tokyo to the Japanese Control Law, but in the
meantime, if diplomatic progress has advancec to the extent that it
will be politic for these gentlenen to discuss the Manchurian situa-
tion with the higher officials in Tokyo and Hsinking, and if this
can be done without prejudice to the formulated policy of the American
Government, then of course, we think it should be. However, we believe
that before any action in this direction, we should consult you for
such thoughts or suggestions you may have.
Sincerely yours,
Kersm F.bor
KFC:M
Kersey F.'Coe.
ATTACHS.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.98)
INCOMINGMESSAGE
ORVILLE HARDEN, RADIO VI: RCA, SS REX, N CHATHAM
rom
W.C. TEAGLE, NEW YORK
To
NOV. 23/34 RA 35
Dated
Ans'd by letter
8:58 AM
Date
NOV. 23RD
Ans'd by wire
Time ree'd
CDB
For J.A. Brown
No change in situation fcreign office still assures it will take
desired action and states it will be probably early next week (SToP)
Godber arrives Shanghai Dec l8th belleve he Parker George S. Walden
should meet there so that three can procead tegether Japan
ORVILLE HARDEN

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.98)
0
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
OM YOKOHAMA
ANS D BY
CABLE
NEW YORK
PAGE 1
ANSDB
TO
LETTER
NOV 23/34
DATE
NO
RECD
DISTRD
Refer to our telegram of Nov. l4th Government has refused our request again
repeating warning-s as per our telegram Nov. 7th but after protraoted interview
to whioh we were summoned Nov. 2Oth sugest-ed that we submit form four show-
ing import-s sufficient (to) conform (with) stock holding regulations but sub.
jeot to alteration s and with the explanation that fulfillment (of) import
program would be conditional upon our decision later as to whether it will be
commercial-ly feasible for us to continue in Japan uncer retroleum law s STop
Friend-s and ourselves were advised to complete return-s immediately in this
manner so that Government could fix l935 quota whioh for friends and ourselves
would then be grant-ed conditional-ly STop We were also informed Government
does not contemplate any compensation for stook holdin which must be recover-
ed in selling price-s and through economy-s arising (from) the advantage-s (in)
marketing under the control law furthermore that the Japanese Government would

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.96)
0
OM YOKOHAMA
TO
NEW YORK
PAGE 2
NOV 23/34
not be influenced to alter law or re ulatlons b: representetions of the kind
so far made by forein  overnment s vich are not considered sufficiently
specific but that if represer: jons should be mede solely from comnerciel
standpoint with supportin fi ure a (to) show ing that hurden of stock holding
was so heavy that forern companies vould have to withdraw then all dey&rtments
(of) sovernment would have to reconsider cuest or i" te lurht of rosstble
alternative sources of suprly  mof vou should receive communication on this
subject via Washin/ton, D C early next week after wl ich please teler r: rh in
structions immediately as ovin, to attituce of  overren' we feel desieion
(of) (in) compliance with their su estjon c nnot awant arriva? of Parker

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
REP
1-1336
FROM
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
LONDON
fore being communicated
to anyone. (A)
Dated November 27, 1934
2l.t Jamdm
894.6363/137
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTEHN AFFA
Washington.
193A
844.6363
603, November 27, 7 p. m.
Departmopt of State
PERSONAL AND CONFI ENTIAL FOR HORNBECK FROM DOOMAN.
NO DISTRIBUTION.
"Millard and I called this morning on Orde at
his invitation to discuss the points raised in the Depart-
67
ment's 347,/August 31, noon. 1 stated to Orde that I
had no authority to speak officially, but that I thought
it mint be helpful if we talked informally.
Orde remarked that the British oil industry is
unified and that therefore the British are not faced
7
with tho problem which he understood exists in the
United States, of securing concerted action within the
industry; he stated that the British oil concerns are
already in a position to take effective measures to meot
the situation, although they would naturally first asur
themselvos that such measures as they had under conten
plation would not be injurious to British policy and
national
F
K

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
REP
2-#603, From London, Nov. 27, 7 p. m.
national interests. I said that the circumstances are
different in the United States, but that it was my
understanding that the American petroleum industry is
well organized.
After further conversation, Orde stated that the
British Government would regard with favor concerted
action between the British and American oil concerns
on the following conditions:
First, any measure that may be agreed upon should
be water-tight or at any rate effective.
Second, no formal action shall be required of the
British Government.
Third, the situations in Japan and in Manchuria
are to be dealt with as two parts of the same problem
(in other words, any measure to be taken shall be
applied to both areas or not at all).
Orde, who is by temperament extremely cautious,
nevertneless showed quite plainly that he is eager to
have the British and American oil concerns place them-
selves in a strong position vis a vis the Japanese. He
seemed doubtful of the wisdom of making in the present
circumstances a further official demarche at Tokio. Ho
said that the British Government and oil interests have
not

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
REP
3-#603, From London, Nov. 27, 7 p.m.
not conclusively decided that any measure of the fore-
going character should be applied as soon as agreement
thereon can be reached, but that they believe that it would
be advantageous to give the oil interests freedom to take
action. He thought that if any effective private measure
can be devised by the oil interests of the three countries
concerned, a real and effective basis would be laid for
further official representations."
BINGHAM
KLP
JSB

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
(Rcm)
TELEGRAM SENT
ARING OFFICE
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
INDICATE WHETHER
VCONFIDENTIALDE
fetrment of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
It should be
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
Washington,
ember 30, 1934.
59
AMEMBASSY,
DIVIS
894
One. Department is considering your telegram under
recus
referonce and will reply later. Please inform Dooman.
6363/137
Two. Please inform Foreign Office that Department on
893.436321a6/93
November 28 requested Grew to hand to Japanese Minister for
Foreign Affairs a firmly worded aide memoire prepared by
the Department in regard to the proposed oil monopoly in
Manchuria. Department also requested Grew to emphasize
orally, when presenting the aide memoire, the seriousness
with which the American Government views the subject under
discussion; and to state the American Government's emphatic
denial that the oil situation either in Manchuria or Japan
is in any way r linked with our efforts or our
procedure at the London naval conversations.
Three. With regard to the oil situation in Japan you
may inform Foreign Office to the effect that Department has
indicated to representative of Standard-Vacuum Company and
to Grew that if compliance with the Japanese suggestion for
the submission by the concerned oil companies of provisional
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-138

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
NNG OFFICE
1-120
TO BE TRANSMITTED
OATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
Washington,
- 2 -
import plans meets with the approval of the oil companies
and the American and British Embassies in Tokyo, Department
perceive
Reus
would
no ropeat no objeotion,theuto.
Huce
u2
894.6363/137
reew
mm.
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
1904EM
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-138

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
(Rcm)
TELEGRAM SENT
OFFICE
1-188
TO BE TRANSNITTED
TE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Departiment of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
PLAIN
ECEIVED
OR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Charge to
Washington,
934 DEC 4 PM612
December, 1934.
This cable wco
11am
AMEMBASSY,
DIVISION OF
COMMIYGATIONS
LONDON (EngAnd)))S
fore
422
Your/6036 November 27, 7 p.m. /
Department/suggests that,/provided/you perceive/no
894.6363/
objection, Millard and/Dooman see Orde and/ referring to /
their conversation of/November 27! talk with him/on
following lines:
One.//Department /hopes that in the /petroleum matters/
both in Manchuria and in Japan, the American and British/
572
Governments/may be able/as far as possibleto proceed )on/
common
ROUS
parallel(lines and present  frontWe (perceive no
repeat no difference/in the attitude and objectivels lof
the two (Governments! In view of the facts that British
and Dutch /oil interests are involved as well as American
that three (Governmentsl are concerned,/ that Deteraing! took
the initiative here toward concerted action,/that repre-
sentatives of the several/petroleum interests have been
in conference in London, and that consultation between
them and the British Government /and between the British
and11
and the Netherland/Governments here been possiblelat
short /range, Department had been hoping for and expecting
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1020
1-138

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM SENT
NING OFFICE
1-130
TO BE TRANSMITTED
DICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
Washington,
S
- 2 -
suggestions from the British Government with regard to
possible course of action.
Department still feels that it would be advantageous
for British Foreign Office to be coordinator and central
olearing point in this matter.
Two. Department has been informed by British
Ambassador, here that the Foreign Office;s,recent, request
through him for information from Department was,prompted
by, an intimation ,given to, the press, by the, Japanese
eaus
here
Ambassador that Japan,might mediate between, British and
American petroleum, interests. So far as the Department
is concerned, there was, and is, no, repeat no, basis in fact,
for such an intimation. We believe that, the British
Ambassador, has already, so informed, the Foreign Office.
Three. Department concurs in the thought of the
British Government favoring concerted action by British
and American petroleum interests. Department has con-
sistently expressed this view to the American interests
concerned. We have suggested to them cooperation among all
American petroleum interests. We do not repeat not believe
that short of such cooperation or of definite restrictive
action on the part of the American Government effective
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-138

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.97)
 OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
Department of State
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
Washington,
- 3 -
restriction of petroleum exports from the United States to
Japan and Manchuria could be achieved. This Government does
not repeat not for the present feel moved to proceed in the
direction of such action and it does not repeat not look as
though the oil companies adversely affected are in position to
take or to cause the oil industry as a whole to take such
cooperative action as might be effective. hether the situation
among the petroleum interests will develop in that direction is
a question on which we, at least,  venture no repeat no
odictin
Four. It is our understanding that, representatives of the
various petroleum interests directly involved with Japan having
proceeded to the Far East, the British and American companies desire
that their respective Governments pave the way for discussion by
those representatives with appropriate officials of the Japanese
Government. May it be understood that the British mbassador and
Netherland Minister as well as the American mbassador in Tokyo will
be instructed by their Governaents to take appropriate action toward
that end? We assume that it is the view of the British Government
that no repeat no action other than such, that is, no repeat no new
démarche should be made to the Japanese Government until the
representatives of the petroleum companies shall thus have had
Government.
Sent by operator
M.,
19.
Iadex Bu.-No. 50.
1-138

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.97)
OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
TE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NUNCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
Department of State
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
Washington,
-4 -
Five./ Department feels that) there should be/frank and
full /exchange of( views between the British, the Netherland/
and the(American Governments/in relation to all phases of
this matter and all/steps/envisageld/o contemplated;/that
there/should be the best possible(working understanding
between and among the Governments and the oil interests
concerned; and that it should be realized/and be/constantly/
kept in mind by all fof the above that there is involvedj a
definite /and clear-cut community of/interest which falls for/
and arrants/concerted action /toward the/objective of/
safeguarding actual(legitimateinvestments /and future)
commercial opportunities. Department is gratified/that the /
British Government/appears to share this feeling.
Six. We feel that all of the above should bel told'
orally to Orde. Please report by telegram.
894.6363/137
neaz
Wi/pdl
FE:SKH/ZMK/DLY
FE
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.-No. 50.
1010
1-138

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
X
REP
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
LONDON
fore being communicated
to anyone. (A)
Dated November 27, 1934
Rec d 5:26 p. m.
oretary of State,
Washington.
894.6363
603, November 27, 7 p. m.
JERSONAL AND CONFILENTIAL FOR HORNBECK FROM DOOMAN.
NO DISTRIBUTION.
"Millard and I called  is morning on Orde at
his invitation to lis a t sints raised in the Depart
:ent's 47, Au ust 31, noon. I stated to Orde that I
had no authority to speak officially, but that I thought
it mint be helpful if we tallied informally.
Orde remarked that the British oil industry is
unified and that therefore the British are not facod
wit: t o prot lem which he understood exists in the
United States, of seeuring coreerted action within the
ir dustry; he stated that t  ritish: oil concerns are
already in a position to take cffective measures to reet
the situation, although they would naturally first assure
tlienselvos that such measures as they had under contem-
plation would not be injurious to British policy and
national

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
REP
2..#603, From London, Nov. 27, 7 p. m.
national interests. I said that the circumstances are
different in the United States, but that it was my
understanding that the American petroleum industry is
well organized.
After further conversation, Orde stated that the
itish Government vould rc are with favor concerted
action between the British and Amcrican oil concerns
on the fulloving conditions:
First, any eas re tat may be agreed upon should
be water-tight or at any rate efrective.
second, no formal actior slall be required of the
British Government.
Third, the situations in Japan and in Manchuria
are to be dealt with as two parts of the same problem
(in other words, any measure to be taken shall be
applied to both areas or not at all).
Orde, who is by temperament extremely cautious,
nevertheless showed quie plainly that he is eager to
have tho British and American oil concerns place them-
selves in a strong position vis a vis the Japanese. He
seemec doubtful of the wisdom of making in the present
circunstances a further official demarche at Tokio. He
said that the British Governmert and oil interests have
not

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
REP
3-#603, rom London, Nov. 27, 7 p.m.
not conclusively decided that any moasure of the fore-
going character should be applied as soon as agreement
thereon can be reached, but that they believe that it would
be advantageous to give the oil interests freedom to take
actlon. He thought that if any effective private measure
can he devised by the oil intorests of the three countries
concerned, a real and effective basis would be laid for
furthor official represon ations."
BINGHAM
KLP
JS3

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
Novembe1 26 1934
no.643
COMFIDENTIAL -- STAFF USE ONLY
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
894.6363/137A
Tokyo.
Sir:
Referring to previous correspondence in regard to
the Japanese Petroleum Industry Law and the proposed
"Manchukuo" petroleum monopoly, there are enolosed for
your confidential information copies, as listed below,
of memoranda of conversations held between officers of
the Department and officers of the principally concerned
American oil companies in regard to the above-mentioned
subjects.
Very truly yours,
For the secretary of tate:
William Fh1llips
Enclosures:
Memorandum of a conversation between officers
of the Royal Dutch Ietroleum Company and the
tandard Oil Company of New Jersey and officers
of the Department, dated August 22, 1934.
Memorandum of a conversation between the
Under Jecretary of State and officers of the
Division of Far astern Affairs, dated ugust 23.
1934.
Memorandum

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
● 2 -
Memorandum of a conversation between the Secretary
of the Interior and an ofricer of the Department,
dated August 23, 1934.
Memorandum of a conversation between ofricers of
the Royal Dutoh Petroleum Company and the Standard
Oil Company or New Jersey, the Seoretary of the
Interior, and ofrioers or the Department, dated
August 23, 1934.
Memorandum of a oonversation between an ofricer
of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and an
ofricer of the Department, dated September 7, 1934.
Memorandum of a conversation between the Commeroial
Counselor of the Netherland Legation and officers
of the Department, dated September 10, 1934.
Memorandum of a conversation between an officer of
the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and an
ofricer of the Department, dated September 10, 1934.
Memorandum of a oonversation between an officer of
the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and an
officer of the Department, dated September 11, 1934.
Memorandum of a conversation between an officer of
the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and ofrioers
of the Department, dated september 13, 1934.
Memorandum of a conversation between an offioer of
the tandard Oil Company of New Jersey and an
officer of the Department, dated September 14, 1934.
Memorandum of a conversation between an officer of
the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and an
officer of the Department, dated September 20, 1934.
Memorandum of a conversation between officers of
the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and an
offioer of the Department, dated september 21, 1934.
Memorandum of a conversation between the Commercial
Counselor of the Netherland Legation and an officer
of the Department, dated eptember 22, 1934.
Memorandum of a conversation between an officer of
the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and an
officer of the Department, dated September 25, 1934.
Memoranda of conversations between an officer of
the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and an
officer of the Department, dated October 2, 24,
26 and 29.
Memorandum of a conversation between an officer of
the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, officers of
the Standard-Vaeuum Oil Company and an officer of
the Department, dated November 2, 1934.
Memorandum

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.92)
6.1986.
he Department, dated November 8, l9se.
Memerandum of a conversation between an offieer of
the Standard Oil Company of Wew Jersey and an
offieer of the Department, dated November 9, l9se.
Memorandwm of a conversation between an officer ef
the Stamdard-Vacuum Oil Company and an ofrieer of
the Department, dated November 10, 1934.
Memorandum of a conversation between an officer of
the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and an
effieer of the Department, dated November 13, 1934.
Memorandum of a eonversation between orficers of
the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and of the
Stamdard-Vacuum Oil Company and an officer of the
Department, dated November 14, 1954.
894.6563 and
0es.6s6s Manehuria
1ov.198
m

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.93)
()
30 ROCKEFELLER PLAZA
NEW YORK
W.C.TEAGLE
Noven.ber Twenty Eighth,
Nineteen Thirty Four.
41.
Decemter 4 127
894.6363/138
actannolidged
livirion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
thec. 4, 19.34
PAs
Dr. Stanley Hornbeck,
State Departm-nt,
Washington, D. C.
Depr of State
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:-
It ooourred to me that you would be
interested in the fcllowin. cable received yes-
terday from Sir Henri Deterding:
"Japan. hat worries me more than anything
else is that so many governments including
Japanese don't realize that if Japanese laws
are accepted it will become practically im-
possible refuse similar conditions to other
countries with consequence that world oil
industry will cease be can ercial and will
become governmental industry whilst supplies
and energency stocks will develo, into some-
thini entirely different to what they are now
and in fact whole idea of emer ency stocks wil
be defeate: by those very people who have been
so keen in in'roducing them."
Yours very truly,
HCT-MRW
LEL
F/G

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
(nom)
In reply refer to
December 4, 1934.
FE 894.6365/138
Dear Mr. Teagle:
The receipt is acknowledged with thanks of your
letter of November 28, 1934, in which there is quoted a
894.6363/138
eable from Sir Henri Deterding in regard to the effeet
which Japanese laws may have on the oil industry at large.
Simoerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Sktanh
Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
NM
Mr. W. C. Teagle,
DEC 5,1934
30 Rockefeller Plaza,
New York, New York.
N
news
FE:RCM:EJL
FE

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM SENT
Washingion,
934 NOV 28 PM23
November 28, 1954.
TsInC.
5pm
COMMUNICA
TOKYO (JapaANLE
197
1135
1133
Your 257, November 24, 10 a. m., and 258, November 24,
3 p. m.
Message/contained in/youry 258 wa immediately) transmitted
to/Standard/vacuum Company which/ yesterday/sent/representative/
to\Washington. Representative/ informed/Department(orally that
provided/standard Nacuum/is prepared/to takd similar action,/
Shell/interests in) London) are prepared) to follow (the plan)
roferred to in/paragraph sixjof your1257., Representativ stated
Standard(vacuum/considers/such action/advisable)and will)so'
instruot its (Yokohama) office) provided Department/agrees.)
offectuatioh of the play undef referencel meets with the approval
of(thej oil/ companies/ concerned/ and the American/ and British)
objection.
Hee
孔
894.6363/135
FEIROM: RE
19.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
1
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEWYORK
December 4 1974
November 28th, 1934.
Ausd.
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
Division et
you
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
NOV 30 1934
Washington, D.C.
Derartorul u 
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
000
In our conversation of Novamber 27th with
Mr. Mackay, we promised we would send to the Department, a
copy of a recent letter we wrote Yokohama, in which the high-
lights of the French and Japanese Petroleum Laws were compared.
We have pleasure in attaching this copy, although we are not
sending a copy of Ir. Henry's letter to us, W ich is simply an
amplification of our remarks.
It will be observed we stated we had filed
with you a short brief on the Japanese Law and we believe we
are correct in saying this, as Ir. Teagle, in a letter from
Washington under date of September 20th, stated he had an ap-
pointment with you on September 2lst, at which time he would
leave the brief in question at your office. Consequently we
are not sending a copy of this.
We expect to communicate with you within the
next day or so in respect to cables we will dispatch to friends
in London and to our Yokohama Office.
I wish to express my appreciation for the time
the Department gave me yesterday and the interesting conversa-
tion I had with Mr. Mackay, which resulted in the clarification
of several points which had been obscure.
Sincerely yours,
Lecdry F. Gor
KFC:M
Kersey F. 'Coe.
ATTACH.
F/G

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.96)
No. 454-P.
oo Mr. Parker.
VIA AIR MAIL PRESIDENT JEFFERSON
Movember 19th, 1954.
Mr. J.C.Goold, General Manager,
Standard-Vaeuum Cil Company,
YCKONAMA.
Dear Mr. Goold:
Roferring to your letter of Sept. zath to Mr. Parker,
1n whieh you advised it would be helprul to Mr. Dickover to have
 eemparison of the essential pointn of the Frenoh and Japanese
Petroloum Comtrol Lawsand also referring to your letter of
Oes. 1zth to the Ameriean Ambassador, Mr. F.H. Henry of Sosony-
Vaswm, has mde this comparison for us in assordanee with the
atteehed. We almo refer to Mr. Parker's letter of Sept. 2lst,
whiek attaehed a short brief of the Japanese Control Law and which,
as stated, was filed with Dr. Hornbeok at Washington. Therefore we
are not forwarding another copy as you oan refer to your own in
case of neeessity.
without commenting at length upon the wide difference
between these laws, we should like to emphasize several points:
A Japam importer obtaizs a yearly lieenae subjeet to modifiea-
tiom or evem mon-aeceptance. An importer into France secures
a S-year lieense, whioh can only be suspended in oase of vi-
olation of the law.
A refiner in Japan is placed upon the same basis as an im-
porter, whereas a refiner in Franee can secure a 20-year
license whioh can be indefimitely extemded by l0-year periods,
provided important additions are mde to refining equipment.
Or course there is a saneellatiom olause, but this as you
will obeerve, is one of 2-l/s years before expiry date of the
original lieense. How this is applied to the extensions we
do not know, but we presume 1t to be in the same manner.
While both laws contain previsiems in respeet to mmintaising
surplus stock, the priee at whieh suek stoeks may be taken
ever is handled in an entirely different mmmer. The Japemese
Law sti pulates the eurreat market priee wherees there is mething
in the Freneh Law governime the priee at whiek the eil sempamies
would be reimbursed upem seimare. The Frensk have selling priees
fixed by the Clovermment whick permit, en eurrent busimess, é
prefit, and while we wnderstand there has beem mo ceeasiom os
the part of the Fremek Gevermment to asquire surplus steek, 1t

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
No. 454-P.
Mr. Geela.
Nov. 19/84.
is the epimion of the oil compamies operating in that
coumtry, that heving ereated a precedent in establishing
a priee sehedule, whieh in effect, corresponds to the price
comtrol by the Japamese Govermment, the Freneh would not
arbitrerily ehange that sohedule in the event of an emergenoy.
Therefore ir the Freneh decide not to follow the markating
sekedule, it would appear that the basis of settlement for
ampropriatiom would be subjeet to arbitratiom, and it is
assumed that cost would be given full consideration. We are
teld, and it is evident, that sueh latitude is permitted by
the Frenoh Cost Formula that costs can be raised to suoh a
point that eompetitiom forees a lowmer basis. Still, this
liberal attitude in respect to costs, theoretically almays
permits a profit - if it is assumed suffieient influence can
b exerted to prevent competitive priees from too great a
decline.
The Japamese Law ealls for stoeks of 6 months in exeess of
busimess requiremests, whereas the Freneh Law obligates the
holder of a lieemse to have 3 months stook, in whieh however,
may be ineluded the buffer stook required in the regular con-
duot of business.
The visitorial powers obta ined under the Japamese Jaw are
ciroumsoribed to a great extent in the Frenoh Lew.
You will understand that this comparimon has not been
searehims im eomplete detail of either legislation. It is simply
to bring ferth the fundamental dirferenees between the two laws
and to refute any sontention on the part of the Japanese that the
Cemtrol Law im Japan is no more severe or omerous than the Fremoh
Lew.
Before olosing however, we wish to bring out two points
in the Freneh Law, both or whieh ir applied to Japan, would be
detrimental to our interests:
The Frenek deeree covering the remewal of special permits for
importing petreleum produots for the period, April 1, 1935
to Mareh 31, lsss, carries the following:
Artlele 8. The holder my be called upon by the State to
execute a eomtract of "national interest" im
proportion to his imports, for the purohase of
Crude or petroleum produsts, either direetly
or indireetly, in cc-operatiom with other
parties called on for this purpose. For this he
will reseive no speeial advantage nor be
granted a monopoly.

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.94)
-8-
No. 454-P.
Mr. Geold.
Nov. 19/54.
This hms been iaterpreted to cover the possibility of
the Freneh Ceverament having its owm souree of srude or petroloum
preduets and foroing the refiner or importer to direetly share im
the distribusion of sueh produets regardless of his souree of supply.
Aleo of equal impertanee, 1t has been interpreted to apply to com-
mereial eomtraets, whieh has been explained to us to the erfect that
1f may, the Fremeh Govermment were to sell airplanes to Roumania,
the payment of which would be covered by Roumanian Crude or finimhed
preduets, them the refimer or importer in Franee could be foreed to
aseept suek prodmets im the ratio described above. There has been a
differenee of opimiom among the sounael of the oil compamies as to
whether mueh imterpretation is correet but it should be borme in
mind that if the Fremoh Covernment did take this stand, it would be
in a position to enforee it.
The same deeree also has:
Artlele 7. The President of the Board and the majority of the
members thereor, as well as the "administratour
delegue"(offieer with power of attormey) must be
of Freneh mationality. This regulation may be
left in abeyanoe up unt1l Ootober lst, 1935.
The licensee shall reserve, in proportions to be
determimed, in mecord with the administration,
for the Frenoh personnel, a part in the adminis-
trative, technical and commeroial direetion of
his enterprise.
The above paragraphs are given for your own information
with the thought that 1f the Japanese Covermment should later propose
to modify their law to embrase similar elauses, you would be fore-
warmed as to these amendments and perhaps appropriate steps could be
tmkem to effeetively protest them.
Yours very truly,
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
CM
Kersey T. Coe.
ATTACH.

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
FE
(recom)
December 4 1984.
In reply refer to
YE 894.6563/139
Dear Mr. Coo:
The reeeipt is acknowledged with thanks of your
894.6363/13
letter of November 28, 1934, and of 1ts enclosure con-
sisting of a copy of your letter addressed to Mr. Goold
under date November 19, 1934, in which a comparison is
made of certain important features of the French and
Japanese laws governing the petroleum industry. This
39
statement and also the memorandum in regard to the Japa-
nese Petroleum Industry Control Law, which, as indicated
in your letter under acknowledgment, was given to me by
Mr. Teagle on September 21, 1934, are receiving our at-
tention.
For your information and in confirmation of reports
which doubtless you have received from other sources, I
may state that on December 1 the American Embassy at
Tokyo, in accordance with the wishes of the Department,
again
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
agaim made representatioms to the Japanese Foreign Orfice
in regard to the proposed oil monopoly in Manehuria.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Stanley K. Hornbook,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
A true cony of
De0.4 194
m.mdd
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
12/4/34

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.96)
X
TELEGRAM SENT
FS
This telegram must be
November 28, 1934
closely araphrased be-
fore being communicated
5 pom.
to anyone. (B)
AMEMBASSY,
TCYO (Japan)
167
Yor 257. Noveuber 24, 10 e.m., and 258,
lHovomber 24. 3 p.m.
Message :ontained in your 256 was imnediately
894.636
transmitted to Standard Vacuum Company which yesterday
sent representative to Washin tor. Representative
informed Department orally that, provided tandard
Vacuum is prepared to take similar action, Shell
3
interests in London are prepared to follow the plan
rcferrcd to in paragraph six of your 257. Representa-
3
tive s tod Standard Vacuum considers such action
9
advisable and will so instruct its Yokohama office
provided Department agrees.
Department informed represchtative to the effect
that if effectuation of the plan under reference meets
with the approval of the oil companies concerned and
the Amcriean and British Embassies in Tokyo, the Dopart-
ment would interpose no repeat no objectior.
HULL
994.6363/135
(SKH)
FE:RCM:REK
FE

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
(Rem)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 26, 1934.
copy sentto Tokyo,
Conversation:
3143B
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
Civision of
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company;
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ale
NUV 30 1934
Mr. Mackay.
894.6363
Subject:
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and Related
Developments and Problems.
Mr. Mackay called Mr. Coe by long distance telephone
and inquired whether Mr. Coe had received the Department's
894.6363/140
letter of November 24, 1934, in which there was quoted the
text of a message for the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company in
New York from the Company's manager in Japan. Mr. Coe re-
plied that the letter under reference was at that moment
before him and that he was on the point of telephoning the
Department in regard thereto. Mr. Coe stated that he de-
sired to discuss the situation with the Department as soon
as praoticable and asked whether an appointment for 10:30
a.m., Tuesday, November 27, 1934, would be convenient.
Mr. Maokay replied that he would, of course, be pleased to
receive Mr. Coe at 10:30 or at any other time which suited
F/FG.
Mr. Coe's convenience. Mr. Coe stated that he wished to
make the appointment fairly late in the morning in order
FILED
to permit his receiving by telephone, prior to his call at
the Department, last minute information from his New York
office.
Mr. Coe

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
一 2 -
Mr. Coe stated that he had received no information
from London subsequent to that outlined in his letter of
November 23 to the Department, the receipt of which letter
Mr. Mackay orally acknowledged.
Mr. Mackay referred to Mr. Coe's previous statement
of his understanding that the American Embassy at Tokyo is
fully informed in regard to the fact that Mr. Parker and
certain other senior officers of the principally inter-
ested oil companies are now en route to Japan. Mr. Mackay
stated that inasmuoh as Mr. Coe was not positive that such
information had been submitted to the Amerioan Embassy,
the Department had attempted to verify the matter by means
of a telegram which of necessity was guardedly and some-
what vaguely phrased; to which telegram the Embassy had
replied to the effeot that it had no such information.
Mr. Mackay suggested that as, with a view to maintaining
secrecy in the matter, the Department's inquiry was not
specific, there existed the possibility that the Embassy,
in denying knowledge of the situation under reference, may
not have understood the question put to it by the Depart-
ment. Mr. Coe repeated his previously expressed opinion
that Mr. Grew had been kept fully aware of all develop-
ments inoluding the impending visit to Japan of senior
officers of the principally interested oil companies but
that he felt the situation should be clarified and that he
woula

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
would disouss the matter further when he called at the
Department tomorrow morning.
Mr. Maokay inquired whether Mr. Coe had received any
further information in regard to the oil situation in
Manohuria. Mr. Coe replied that he had received no recent
word. Mr. Mackay referred to Mr. Coe's statement to
Mr. Hornbeok on November 23, 1934, to the effect that he
had received from the Company's representative in London
information to the effect that the British Foreign Office
had given assurance of some action "probably early next
week". Mr. Mackay stated that the Department had received
word indicating that on Saturday, November 24, 1934, the
British Ambassador at Tokyo made further representations
to the Japanese Government in regard to the oil situation
in Manohuria.
Mr. Coe thanked Mr. Mackay for his cooperation and
repeated his statement that he would call at the Depart-
ment tomorrow at 10:30 a.m.
At 2:30 p.m., November 26, Mr. Coe called Mr. Mackay
by long distance telephone and, referring to their con-
versation of this morning (see above), asked if he might
be permitted to postpone his call at the Department from
10:30 a.m.,to 2:00 p.m., November 27. In explanation of
suoh

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
such request Mr. Coe stated that further inquiry had been
made by him of his representative in London and that, as
it is unlikely that a reply thereto can be received before
noon on the 27th, he wished to postpone his call at the
Department until 2:00 p.m. Mr. Mackay stated that such
postponement would be entirely satisfactory to the Depart-
mont.
ns
FE:RCM:EJL

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.91)
X
seenly
mas m
LDS
November 26, 1954.
Cemversetien:
M. Kersey F. Coo
. Meekay.
Subjeet: Jammmese Petroleus Homopaly and Related
Dave loummnte end Proelese.
r. Maskay ealled Ur. Coe by long distance telephome
and inquired whether Ar. Coe had received the epartment's
letter of November 24, 1034, in whieh there wms quoted the
text of a message for the tandard-Vaouum Oil Company in
New York from the Company's manager in Japan. r. Coe re-
plied that the letter under reference was at that momemt
before him and that he was on the point of telephoning the
Department in regard thereto. Mr. Coe stated that he de-
sired to discuss the situation with the Department as soon
as preetieable and asked whether an appointment for 10:30
a.m., Tuesday, November 27, 1934, would be convenient.
Mr. Mmokay replied that he would, of course, be pleased to
reeeive r. Co at 10:30  at any other time which suited
IAr. Coe's oonvenienoe. Mr. Coe stated that he wished to
make the appointment fairly late in the morning in order
to permit his receiving by telephone, prior to his call et
the Department, last minute information from his New York
ofriee.
r. Coo

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
r. Coe stated that he had reesived no informmatiom
from London subeequent to thet outlined in his letter of
November 23 to the Department, the receipt of which letter
Mr. Maokay orally aoknowledged.
ir. Mackay referre to r. Coe'a revious statemont
of his undorstandin that the merioun bass/ at rokyo is
fully informed in regard to the feo:  t r. urkor and
certain other senior officers of the rincipally inter-
ested oil companies ure now on ro t n un.
r. mokay
statod that ineaauon as r. o s no ositive that such
information had been submitte to ts merioan mbasay.
the Department had atte: te to verify the watter by moans
of a telegram whion of necessity was uardedly and some-
what vaguely phrased; to whicn tele ra: the mbassy had
replied to the effeot tm! it had no such informatlon.
. Maokay suggested that as, with s view to maintaining
sooreoy in the matter, the epartaent's in uiry was not
speoifie, there existed the possibility that the mbasay,
in denying knowledge of the situation under referenoe, may
not have understood the uestion put to it by the Depart-
ment. r. Coe repeated his previousl, exprossed opinion
that Mr. Crew had been kept fully aware of all develop-
meats inoluding the impending visit to Japan of senior
officers of the prineipally interested oil companies but
that he felt the situation should be olarified and that he
wola

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
would diseuss the matter further when he called at the
Department tomorrow morning.
Mr. Mmekay inquired whether r. Coe had received any
further information in regard to the o1l situation in
Manohuria. Mr. Coe replied that he had received no recent
word. Mr. Maekay referred to Mr. Coe's statement to
Mr. Hornbeok on November 23, 1934, to the effeet that he
had receired from the ompan 's re resentative in London
information to the effect that the Britis  oreign ffioe
had given assurance or some action "probably early next
week". Mr. aokay stated that the epartment had reoeived
word 1nd1eating that on aturday, November 24, 1934, the
British Ambassador at Tokyo made further representations
to the Japanese Government in regard to the oil situation
in Manohuria.
Mr. Coe thanked r. ckuy for his oooperation and
repeated his statemont that he would cell at the Depart-
ment tomorrow at 10:30 a.m.
At 2:30 p.m., Novamber 26, ir. Coe called Mr. Mmekay
by long distance telophone and, referring to their oom-
versation of this morning (see above), asked if he might
be permitted to postpone his call at the Departmemt from
10:30 a.m.: to 2:00 p.m., November 27. In explanation of
oub

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokye, Nevember 16, 1084.
No. 1000.
Smbjeet: Ameriean Oil Interests in Japem.
8946363
141
The Honoreble
The Soor tary of state,
rashington.
8ir:
I navo the honor to refer to my despatch No. l04,
tated Novamber :, 193a, ané to previous correspondenee,
written and t-legraphie, in regur to the difficulties of
the American and oter foreign oll inter sts in Japen under
the new Potroleum Industry Law, and to submit the following
report of developments during the past two we-ks.
Benressntationa
In my tolegram No. zal, Novomher I, a p.m., in my des-
pateh No. 104z, deted November , 1974, and in the tranala-
tion of the Foreim Offiee Memorandum of October 31, 1984,
助ish

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.93)
whieh wae trenemstted witn the deepeteh referred to abeve,
16 wes stated shat permiesien te refine petrelomm is Jepen
would be mere easlly grented if "mere then bals" of the
eapital of the refiaing eempemy were Japanese. The phrase
tramslated as "mere than hals" in the Japanese tezt was
"Zamgakm ije", of whieh the literal translatiom is "half
amoumt abeve", and consequsatly this Imbessy, the British
Embassy and the Netnerlands Le:ation sll sranslated the
expressien as "more than halr". in discursing the questiem,
however, the Japanese newspapers referren to "50-50" eap1-
talisation of refining firms, an  consequently the Embassy
asked the Foreign Offiee for elueidation of the phrase.
The Pereign of iee itsalf was nut elear on the oint and
asked the Ministry of Comreree and Industry (whieh apparently
drafted the we crandum) for an explanation. According to
the exylanation given, the phrase "hangaku ijo" was used
in the memorandum in a legal sense whien it soxetimes has,
in whieh it means "at least half" or "nut los: than nolf".
Consequently the Lmtassy sent its t legrem No. :5l, Novem-
ber 18, 4 p.m., re uesting that the neesssary changes be
made in thu tulegram and translation sent to the Department
on the subjoet. The Eabasay in informed that the same
ehange was made by the British Eabass:.
The deaning of tac phrese has some conaijer tle inport-
anee, as, while tn" forsigm o!l companies operating in
Japan would not be lixely, according to thr statoments of
their representatives in Japan, t consi er refining in
Japan if the control of the loon1 refining coneerns which
Shey migkt establish had to be in Japenese rands, 1t is eom-
2011

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.93)
- 8 .
omtle that they might, at some time in the future,
esmsider the questien of refining in Japen if they could
heve equal eontrel with the Japanese interests. The qwee-
siem arises, however, of whether or not the phrase was not
purpesely made very vague, in order to afford the Japanese
authorities a means of eseape should thc ailitary or other
influenees at amy time objest to she partioipation on equal
terms of foreign eapital in the petroleum r fining industry
of Japas.
Steak-halding Bacuirenenta.
As was stated in the Eabassy's respatah No. l017, dated
Oetober 19, l934, en in the Bmbasey's tolcgram No. x,
Oetober £x, 5 p.m., the Department of Commeree and Indus'ry
refused to grant the foreign oil soe anies a postponement of
the time by whioh the su,: lemental plane for imcortetion and
storege of oil had tc be submitted. Uno r  ute of November
5, l9s4, the Department of Comreroe and Industry adares ed
identie letter: t the Managers in Japan of the Standard-
Vaowm Oil Con any and tht Kising Sun e roleue Con any, re-
cuiring the oil cor les to submit their storage and importe-
tion plans by November 15, 1334, and ad ing, "in o4se you f=11
to responj to our reruost pron,tly,  smooth exeoution of your
cowpany's business plan for l925 might be interferer with"
(mbassy's telegram No. F4:, November 6, 7 p.m.). A copy of
the translation of the letter as made by the Standard-Vaouum
2
Oil Company is enclosed. The represent: tives of th: forei
il companies iscussed the matter with their respective -
bassles, as a result of whieh it was decided that the oil com-
panies send to thcir respeetive hea: offices some definite
plan is the premises whie: those head offises could presemt
to their Gnvermmemss with a reguest for support. On November
8, 19s4, the Amerieem ame British oil sompanies completed sheir

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.92)
getms plan, mhich shey requested their respeetive Rabassies
te formerd in eode fer then, as they feased that their om
eedes were eveilable to she Japanese (Embessy's telegrem
Ne. 2es, Nevember 8, 9 p.n.). The plam subaitted mas mmch
the same as that previously suggested by this Imabassy and
by the British Babassy to their respeetive Govermments,
mamely, that steps be taken to control the export of erade
oils to Japam if the Japanese persist in eompelling the
foreigm eil sompanies to store a pert of their war-time
reserves of oll for them. The British Tmbasry forwarded
e similar telegram for the British oil compamy, while the
Wetherlands Minister sent is Government a long enble es-
plaiming the plight of thd forcign oil companies and com-
eluding with the opinion that there would he no hope of
amelioration of the situstion unless the forelgn oil compamies
and the Amerieon, British and Netherlands Governments pre-
semted a united front to the Japanese on the question.
The Eabassy has been indirectly informed that the tri-
00
tish mbassy has received en instruction fron its Foreis
X
Ofriee to the effect that the for ign Offioe considers the
HD
demend of the Department of Commeree and Industry that the
storage and import plans be submitter by Movember 15 as an
3
I
attempt to "prejudge" the isaue, ans inatrueting the British
A
Kabassy to support the Britia oil company in its refusal to
somply with the demand.
Under date of November 15, 1934, the tro foreigm o11
compenies sent letters of similar purport to the Department
of Cemmeree and Industry, again requesting a postpomement ef
the sime by whieh she sapplemental plans covering storage and
10003011

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.93)
bortes1ems for 1oss most be oubaltted, an the ground thet
assensstens were in progress betveen the Japenese Geverament
and their Goveraments and that their boad effiees could net
reesh a desisien in regere to the future until these diseus-
eleme hed further pregressed. A eopy of the laster sent to
the Department of Gemmeree and Industry by the Standard-Vaeum
2/ O11 Cempemy is enelesed herewith.
It appears that, as a result of the diplomatie represemte-
tiems wmieh have been made, of the adverse comment abroed
mmich hes beem eaused by the publieity siven the  westiems
of the eil memopely in Mamahuris and the ell eontrol in Japem,
and of the gre ual realisation on the part of the Japanese
autherities of the unworkability of thoir seheme in its pre-
semt form, there is now seme tundeney on the part of the au-
thorities to mitigate the severity of the stock-nolding re-
quiroments. This tendeney is il:ustratod by three conversa-
tioms whieh members of the stuft of the Embusay have had
8/4/8/
with Japanese offiaiuls, memorende of hien are enclosed. The
fAret was a eontersution which ir. ickover had with Viee
Admiral Hasegewe, Viee Sinister of the Navy, on Hovruber 5,
193e, and the other two were corverentions whieh Xr. Neville
had with Mr. Kurusu, Chief of th: Bursau of Commeroial Af-
feirs of the Foreign Orfice, or November lf and Nnvember 14,
1984.
The only frult borne ns yet of tris tandency to mitigate
the severity of the stock-holding provisione of the law eon-
sists of s probable conoession as ageres what will constitute
the six-months' stoek recuired by th regulations. Formerly
the requirements were that the stoe: must oo heli in tanks of
a stipulated minimum sime located in pluces design:ted by the

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.94)
● ● -
Govermment. These comditioms praetieslly exeluded from
the six monthst steek the oil firme' working stocks, which
mermally were largely im storage tanks at the sea-ports,
is tank-ears, in tank lighters, is small distributiom
tanks st imland peints, im serviee station tanks, in eens,
ete. Umder date of Novomber 14, 1934, however, Mr. Kurusu,
the Chief of the Commereial Bureau of the Foreign Offiee,
transmitted to this Embaszy and to the British Embassy am
explanatiom in mglish of the stock-holding rogulctions,
in whieh it is state: that, subjeet to the permission of
the Minister of Comneree and Industry, the oil may be held
thn
in contaimers other those preseribed in the regulutions.
The explanation further states that only three months'
stoek must be held in storage prior to Oetober 1, 1935,
and imjlies thut thc six months' stock mey be grajurlly built
up, over * period of twelve mont:s, after Cotober l, l935.
According to the ropresentttives of th foreign oil companies,
however, this coneension will heve little practic l effeet,
as toehnical dirficulties will prcvent the oil cospanies from
ineluding the largest part of thcir working stooks in the
storave stoeks. It sill, however, make a difference of from
twe to three wenks' stocks. fespite this concession, there-
fore, the great bulk of the six months' storcge stocks would
still have to be is orted and hel: as icls stocks.
A copy of the letter from Mr. Kurusu, with its onelosures,
6/ is enclosed for the inforaution of thr Department.
As is showm in the memorandum of the conversation of
Moxember

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.92)
● 7 .
Sovember 18, 10s4, between Mr. Kurusu and Mr. Meville, re-
ferred so abeve, Mr. Kuruss was very anxious to arrange a
Gemferemee betweam himself and Mr. Yoshime, she Viee Minis-
ter of Cemmesee and Industry, on the one side, and the ree
presemtatives of she foreign oil companles, on the other.
The represemtatives of the oil companies were somewhat
chary or aceepting this invitation, as they feared thas an
attempt would be made to maneuver then inte a disadvente-
seoms pesitien, or to take the negotintlons out of diplome-
tie chammels by transferring shem to private conversatioms,
or to drive a wage betwe'n the British and Ameriean interests
and thms to destrey the hitherto united front. After son-
sultation with their respective kmtassies, however, the
foreign oil sompanies deei ed to aceept the invitation to
the eenferenee, as not to do so would not only appear dis-
respeetful but would also lay them open to th, or rgn of
refusing to liston t any explanations or compromise plans
whieh the authorities night have t: offer. The v.rious
dungers referred to above tiey deciied to avoid by stating
explieitly that they ha: ro authority to commit their com-
punies, as the power of decixior la in their hear ofriees,
and that, moreover, as their Covernments werr inter sted in
the question and were discussing it with the Japanese Govern-
ment, anything maid would be conveyed t: their respeetive
Embassies. The conferenee wi! prob tly : hel' in the
early part of next week.
PPRIGTLY COUPIDRITIAL
There is little doubt that the stock-hol ing provisiem
of the Petreleum Industry Law is largely a ilitery measure,
401

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.91)
- ● .
designed to beild up reserves of oil in Japem for use
ln eese of var. It may be diffieult to ad wee evidemee
thet eny effieisl premoumeement was ever mede to this
effeet, but sonsiderable moffieial evicence ean be found
71
to suppere this contentien. Thus, thers is enolesed here-
with an emeerpt fros e speceh made by Xr. K. Hashimote,
the Presidemt of the Mippon O11 Com any, on Cetober 27,
188s, befere the stoekmolders of the Wippon Oil Compemy,
In whish the statement is definitely made that the steake
boldins previsiem is a measure of nutional defense. viewed
in this light, it is respectfully ouss : ted that = new line
of astack on the stoak-hol ing provlslons ight be snopted,
by elaiming that forced storing of oil by Amerioan firms to
provide a war-time reserve for Japan conflicts with the
last paragraph of artlcie 1 or the Treaty of Commeree and
Mavigation of l9ll between the United it tes and Japan,
whieh reads as follows:
"They shsl!, however, be exempt in the
territoriss of the other frot com,ulmory
military serviee efther om lend or sea,
in the regular forees, or in th- national
guerd, or in the milite; from all contri-
butions imposed in lieu of personal service,
and fram all foreed leanz ar mllitary exas=
 rtio
If the Department eonsiders that there is eny possibility
thet this line of aetion could be adopted, the Embassy will
gsther and transmit to the Department all possible evidenee
1001003200

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.92)
Sndeating that the stoekohelding requirememt is a "military
enestion".
Respoetfully :ours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enelesures:
1' Trenslation ef let er as wade by the Stindard-Vaeuum
Company.
Z/ Stamdard-Vaeum Conpamy let er to the Departmant of
Commeree and Industry.
8/4/B/ Memorandum of eonvars"tions.
8/ Copy of letter from r. Kurusu, Chief I Commerclal
Burean of the Foreign Ofriee.
7. Excerpt from a spceeh wade by the Pr sicent of the
Bippon O!: Cotmny.
863.6
BRDI8

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.92)
tu uospa.ch
No 1060of U02 16, '431 from the
bassy at Tokyo.
COPY.
TRAXGLARIO OE IEABR LEZIEL
Dated Nev. sth, 1934.
Press The Mime Duresu of the Dept. of Cemmeree & Industry.
So: Management (ssandard-Vaeuum Corporatiom)
Translated by: Y. Yamasoto.
Dates Nov. 6th 1934.
A Ko Otsu No: seer-Sei.
Mr. J.C. Geeld, representative in Japen
of Standerd-Vaewm Oil Comrany.
Dear Sirs
We beg to raw your uttention to the f at that while
we, in our letter dated Oetober 13th (a Ko Otsu Nos59es),
requested you promptly to send us a supplement of your
applieatiem for permission for th: l975 business plan of
your eompamy, you have not sent us the required statement
as yet, with the result that we are not a little ineom-
veniemeed in the performance f our tuties eoneerning the
operation of the Petroloum Industry Law.
You are the efore required to present the supplemen-
tary statement by the 1stn inst. without fril.
Be may add that, in cese you full t: respond to our
request promptly, & smooth execution of your company's
business plan for loss might be interfered with.

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.93)
Euciubure Noto despatch
No 1060 of U2. 16, 1434 from the
For hasev at Tokyo.
COPY.
November 15, 1984.
Kis Eseellemey
Mechide Chuji,
Minister of Cemseree anc Industry,
Tokyo.
Your Bxeelleney:
We have for aeknowledgment your Departmental letter
e Ko Otsu see dated vember Sth fro, Kr. T. Fukuda
the subetanee of whieh has been eonveyed tn owr Nead o?-
fiee in New York.
We believe Your Exoellemey is fomiliar xith the fxet
that friendly diseussions are now in progress betweem the
Imperial Japanese Government and the  vernment of the
Smited Stases of Ameriea soneerning the position of the
Emeriean Dil Companies under the Petroloum Control Law
of Japan. In view of this, and although regretting emy
ineonvenienee a further delay may eause, we again res-
peetfally request permission to postpone filing the re-
quired supplement until these diseussions have  rogressed
further and our Mead Offiee ean reaeh a desision in regard
to the future.
we are,
Your Excollenoy's most obedient servants,
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY,
Gener:! Manager
JCG1FR

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.77)
NO 1060 OP 10N 16,1434
from the
Fant sy at Tokyo.
KEMORANDON
Nevember 6, 1984.
Cemverestiems ar. Dickever and Viee Admirel Nasegams,
Viee Miaister of the Bavy.
Darins the course of she comversatirm at dinner Last
ovenins, I sold Ldmiral Hasegewu thet the oil cuestiem mad
not, as fer as I know, boen br ught up ur nozely xt thss
sime, hen the maval conwereations  are taking lume, and
that it ms si ly a coineideuce, cxusrc by the Minintry of
Commeree and Inalistry innistius ut th.. .. ant n the sturege
of oll by the foreisn firns. Adm rel H noguwn nnid that be
undorat ad that. I skai id iral R. segswe rn:t he thousht
of the Japanese oll gontrol sebewe. e  io la! at di not
thiak that it wes vrry vod- thet it wis t nrauble.
I a th t l en thei ct
toyybl
thfor thltro
hht
tth
fort reinlr ing
or no
interth inor in
Iia
the rtotht
that the itiu vo t be
ori
otl eunles.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.94)
1060
wol I4,!3l4 from the
Couversetion.
November 12, 1984.
Mr. Moville and Mr. Kurusu, Chief
of the Commereiel Dareau of the
Porsim efriee.
Patmalem Lnduatrx Lax.
I had Iumeh with Mr. Kurusu at the Tokyo Club. I
asked kim what the phrase "bangaku ijo" meant in the
memeramdum (par. 8) whieh had een sent to us in regard
to the operatiom of the oil law in Japan. He laughed
and said that he hed inquired of the Department of Com-
meree amc Industry an had been tol: that in that connee-
sion it meant not less than half or half or more. He
said thet he had not been qutte sertain himself sn: did
mot blame anyone for being confuseu. He then told me
that he had propared an exylanation of the law which he
would send to ze, an  showe: me a draft which he had in
his pocket. I told his in reply to " question that I
ahould be glad to have a sopy, and wouly sond it on to the
oil eompanies. He asked me if I wanted it sent in a note
from the Foreign Minister. 1 said that it did iot make
mush differonee in what form the Embassy recoived it, so
lons as we had as urance that it was authentie and would
not be repudiated by some Government Department if it were
presented in evidenee. He maid that there would be no
questiem of that. He then asked if it would not be possible
for the oil companies to meet him and Mr. Yoahino. I said
that I did met know, as I was not aware of thid representativest
plans in this regard. I said that I understoed that the leeal

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.95)
agents had put the whole situatiom up to their head effiees,
and that they were net in a position to commit the compemies
to any eourse of astien. Le asked me whether I knew wbat
was in the minds of the eil sen. I said thit so far as
I knew they were umder the impression that it was the Go-
vermment's intemt:on to put them out of business in Japem
so far as importation of refined products was eoneerned, end
that the steek holding reguirement was a step in this diree-
tion. Purther the insistenes upon fixing the date of No-
vember 1s as the deed line, when the suthorities knew that
they were unable to eomply with th- six months' stock
holding roquirement mad confirmed them in this impression,
and they (the loeel =gerts) seemed to be in tho frame of
mind to d, noth ng and eoeept whatever ha poned rather then
commit their pr ncipuls to & ig ex enditure srd lose their
businens anyway. He said tlct thcy we unier a miaapprehen-
alon, that it as no one's int ntion to put thow out of busi-
ness -- in fhot it vas im ss sie. ne sai. thst they could
submit some figures and revise thon later. i sai they were
freid to do that because tany ha sutmitter some figures
before and the'r cuota hed boen cut lown, aven when 1t was
known thot s mistake ha bean made. They folt that rothing
was t) be gained and that it was mercly in attumpt t: put
them in a hoie. I 1d not row, I ssic, what they intonded
to do, but they we e unable to submit  coplato storage
plan even if wil ing. de said that t is was an unfortumate
frame of mind; that he would look int, th. uostion of sub-
mitting a pre farme plan with the power of revising it laters

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.90)
- 8.
thet be would be present at aay Laterview they wished
to have with Yoshimo, and they would have written explame-
siems of anything that was sold them. I said that I sheuld
Geavey his remarks to Mr. Goold, but could not answer fer
him as I wes not handling the matter.
E.L..

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.93)
uesch
1060. 00.16,1434 from the
Comversation.
Nevember 14, 1984.
Mr. Meville and Mr. Kurusu, Chief
of the Commereial Bureau of the
Forcign Offise.
Patralam Lasnatry Lav.
I met Mr. Kurusu at dinner at the Netharlands Lege-
tion. He told me that e had prepsred an English explama-
tion of certain pasesges of thr Petroloum Law mich refer
so the stook keeping requirements. I ssid tist I should be
glad to have it, an wouin mend a copy tu Mr. Goold. Me
said that he was also sending " similar letter to the Dri-
tish Mmbassy.
I told him thit I undorstood thet the oll companies
were having diffleulties with their cuotas, as the domand
for oll protucts, particularly s soline, was increasing.
He said th: t the Lepartment of Commeree and In us:ry was
somowhet troubled, he understood, by the situction. Ap-
parently the demend for o roleum croducts is increasing
with th. groxing use of mutor vehioles for trans ort tion.
He said he did not kniw how that petroleum control could work
aatisfactorily under prosent arringements. u ar med to
think thst the foroign otl eompanies were cot boing very
helpful to th authorities, as the Japanese companies were
having difriculties too. I said thet while th: t was true,
the Japanese eompanies hud the proosect of ultimate inorrased
business, while the foreign companies had been told that
the most they could expeet was that their present business
mould

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.92)
● 。
would met be eut domm, as they could only have increased
quotes mhen all she Japamese companies had been satisfied,
or something of she sort. Ne laughed and said that it
looked like a mudtle; that the Poreign Offiee only was
consulted when the other Departmrnt got into trouble,
and then had only the job of consiliating the outsiders.
I tolo him thet I could not expoot him to admit openly
that the law was unworke Le and orr harcer on the foreism
companies than on the Japanose coneerns, but I thought so.
He said that he felt bauly tit the foreign concerns seemed
to think that they wer rut welcome tu d usines in
Japan, beeause the oi! b sines could ot be onducted with-
out them, a foot which they wust rcalize. He said that
some Japanose rerinere we e complxinins thut they had icle
oquipment, and he had told the loparta: nt of Commeree and
Industry that it must pe because treir eruipment was not
up to date, t which I ruplled th't oll rofining was 
complieuted proces: cepending or * number of f ctors of
which I had no mowledge, such as thc con osition of the
crude vil, continuity of op rations anc other things, ir-
oluring the char: cter or the oqu:pment ana th personnel
of th refin'ng tafr.
と.L..

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.80)
Encusure No 6to despatch
No 1060 of '2v 11,1134 from th
iy at T kvo.
cOPY
SUB GAI XGGNO
TOKIO.
Meveber 16th, 1034.
Dear Mr. Meville,
with referemee to the Article 5 of the Potr Loum
Law, mmieh makes it sbligatory for tacorters tn keen e
eertalm amommt of oil in stoek, I be? to encioss Acrovith,
for your Laforuation, • co of tme "Ix lunstions or Legal
ooligatien to Mold O1l," waich mas besm pr pared by the
Fordem Ofrics.
I am given to unduralzne  the n ricitis vsrrctly
in harge as the aftais, that the sisure: t in the upull-
eation Pore in ccordaree ith the  a s  the Heu
latinns relet e to che  Ilecti c"c il w, cn be
lyi if th  f i
ai to  i jusllibl   ini f 
sree ind Industry.
Very t.itur y y mre,
r. kwim i. Noville
Counselur,
merien  b:x.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.87)
 virtme of te ele s of the osl La, Artiele e of
the Imperial Ordiasmse relatins to the Appllestiom of the
ell Lew (hereinarter referred to as "the Ordin mee") and
Arssele 1s of the Regulatiems relztins to the Apolieatiem
of the o11 Lew (hereimsfter referred to as "the i gulati ms"),
any peraom whe imperts oil is under cbliguti n to buld this
subetemee to the extest of not los: then one-hrlf of the
veaatity imperted by hir in the preceding year. The oll
e be se beld xant be kopt, as a matter of prnetple,
La tenks of a presoribed eapacity, undor artiole 7 of the
Ordinnmse and Artiele 19 of the Regulati ms, but, 1f the
permission of the mimister of Con erce snd Industry ls
obbaimed in mecordance witn the provise of Paragre k l,
Artiele 7 of the Ord:nincu anc ndar Irtiole sü o? the
hegulatsoms, the said  il ray bo h le in taks bf lose
mas e prescribed eapaeisy and alae uy be neld 
te othr thun that of onage. It is drat
thatthe Depertment of Comraree and Indurtry, ihn : view
to alleviatins the diffie lties to hien the rerahants
euneerned ay be ut, xill srant the aheve-nmtloned
pormlssion in so far is the mothods of holoin pil for
which they may aply are adeguate md op ctieebls for the
ase of the Lew.
The obligatiom to hold oil comes into foreo on April
lst, loss. For the trled frem April lst to Beptomber aoth,
l8ss, the cuantity of oil to bo held  nst not be less them
cme-talf of the nusmtity iaperted durims the six romths

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.84)
me mere en three mentms' Luperte. In the ligee of
Astsele ls os the Regalessens, st may mee thes the cuene
tstw of all te be beld during the perieo frem April lat
to Beptember sosk, 1sss, tst mot be loss tham me-hx18
of the sunmtity sleered threugh the Custeme betoeem Jameesy
Lo6 wad Becember alst, 122s, but this is not the ease. the
mplemat:on is thas, an the o11 Law did ot come into Saree
wasll Jaly lst, lasa, no mecoumt is tikem of the gusntit
saperted prior to that date.
If, l the ad mry cours of busine, oll snport
bold is stook s cuantity of oil correspondimt u nron:mntaly
to sm or three nonths' taports, is is genorlly e nzidered
to bo the ease, it ust cot be partioulirly as sscult for
the to fulril thsir obliation of holoins il, since the
quamtiw to bo held r the uriod rr.m prii lit to Bap
tmber oth, lu, 1s pot ucn in or or the nt:
woally bal in tok. r ror, i orin oll, he
nerd not noces ursly surt the tanks cnecifind in Artiele
l0 of the hegulations er enti md above. It is true that
from Uetober lst, lost, nm,res, the unntity of 1l to
be retained n h nd wil socremee to  fisure corr ponsing
to six onthet i ports, in the oourae of twelve nthe,
but aven than that rt f this inererse shic is due t. the
Ol1 Law and Ic in ezd. sr or the ardinery »toek is no ore tham
three or Four wonths' lorts.
the merebemts o ne raca will be rell- dvised to form
their emcrete bmsimess plams as early as pessible end nake

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.79)
the mossssary appllentlen to the boparteent of Commeree
and Industeg, ane ther mave aloo to apply to ahat Departe
sent for permiestem te use shsir esitesins equipemt for
belasne esl whove such equipmemt is of a kind ave lable fer
the pmrpese. the Depertusmt will matursliy ensider mly
essee Ls omien "pplleetions xre made, snd 1f shis nesesrasy
presedure is megleeted, they will moy no reams or asereisine
faveureble eoasideresien.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.93)
Euclostre No 7 to despatch
No 1060 of U0V 16. l0 from the
:T7O.
Exeerpt for Speech made by ir. K. Hashimoto,
Presieont of th Nippon Ol Com any, before
t  Stockholders of the Niopon Oil Cow any,
October 7, 1924.
Referring to tir stock-holding uty rovi ed for
in the Petroleum Industry Law, it means & ver eavy
burden on the oil im orters generally, I asmuch as it makes
it neceseary for tim to er ct storage-t ns, and the possi-
ble evepor tion los on their stocks (the Law reguires the
holding of stocks coverin: six months' rer uirements), in-
terest on the oney tie u, etc. amount to e considerable
sum. From pur ousiness point of view, it is deci edly un-
necessary for us t rold so larg a clantity of oil. It 1s
quite obvious that the stock-holcing re uiroment is for
the sake of national defence. The Dovernment tnerefore
ought to  sy the expenses for this duty. Al the oi! com-
panies presen e a Joint uppeal to the G vernment in this
connection. e re tol tht tn  vorrment ls considor-
1ng 1t.

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.71)
Sec.12
Lat H 
dhyist.
Wa have Jreviand
conndered the
pont, adod
yt
Te Ja faa Whie
admsa g
the great,it
wgeted th
toeef the
Jo.t
—m..d.
4

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 5, 1934.
MSTT
Despatch No. 1060 of November 16, 1934,
from Tokyo:
The Japanese Department of Commerce
and Industry refused to grant tre foreign
oil companies a postponement of time by
which the supplemental plans for importa-
tion and storage of oil had to be submitted.
The British and Dutch have urged tleir
governments that steps be taken to control
the export of crude oil to Japan if the
Japanese persist in comnelling the foreign
oil companies to store a nart of treir
war-time reserves of oil for them. The British
Government has instructed the British Embassy
to support the British oil company in its
refusal to comply with the demand.
It appears that as a result of
diplomatic protests and adverse comments
abroad, there is some tendency on the part
of the authorities to mitigate the severity
of the oil storage requirements.
There is little doubt that the stock
holding provision of the law is a military
measure. This being the case, it is
possible that a new line of attack on the
law might be feasible, by claiming that
forced

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
forced storing of oil by American firms
conflicts with the Treaty of Commerce
which provides that Americans:
"Shall --- be exempt from ---
all ---military exactions or contri-
butions".
TT/DLY
894.6363/141

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.91)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 16, 1934.
No. 1060.
Subject: American Oil Intercsts in Japan.
794.6363
gile
AS
894.6363/141
AM 11 48
CMUNICATIONS
DS
L1
C
L
O.N.L AND M. I.D.
121
R
934 0EC
No
(iral
For
huI SA
MID
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my despatch No. 1042
12L
dated November 2, 1934, and to previous correspondence,
written and telegraphic, in regard to the difficulties of
the American and other foreign oil interests in Japan under
the new Petroleum Industry Law, and to submit the following
report of developments during the past two weeks.
Representations.
1105
In my telegram No. 241,'November 1, 6 p.m., in my des-
1126
patch No. 1042, dated November 2, 1934, and in the transla-
tion of the Foreign Office Memorandum of October 31, 1934,
which

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
which was transnitted with the despatch referred to above,
it was stated that permission to refine petroleum in Japan
would be more easily granted if "more than half" of the
capital of the refining company vere Japanese. The phrase
translated as "more than alf" in thy Japancse text was
"Hangaku ijo", of which th itcral translation is "half
a ount above", and consecuently this Enbassy, thc British
Enbassy and the Nethorlean s Le ation all translatcd the
expression as "more than half". In discussing the question,
however, the Japanese newspepers referred to "50-50" capi-
talization of refining firms, an consecuently thc Embassy
asked the Foreign Office for elucidation of the phrase.
The Foreign Of ice itself vas rot clear on thr point and
asked the Ministry of Conterce und Industry (which apparently
drafted the  e crandum) for an explanation. According to
the explanation given, the phrase "hangaku ijo" was used
in the memorandum in a legal sense which it sometimes has,
in which it means "at least half" or "not less than half".
Consequently the Embassy sent its telegram No. 51, Novem-
ber 13, 4 p.m., recuesting that the neceszary changes be
made in the telegram and t anslation sent to the Department
on the subject. The Embassy is informed that the same
change was made by the British Embassy.
The meaning of thc phrase has some consicerable import-
ance, as, while thc foreign oil companies operating in
Japan would not be likely, according to the statements of
their representatives in Japan, to consicer refining in
Japan if the control of the local refining concerns which
they might establish had to be in Japanese hands, it is con-
ceivable

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
ceivable that they might, at some time in the future,
consider the question of refining in Japan if they could
have equal control with the Japanese interests. The ques-
tion arises, however, of whether or not t phrase was not
purposely mude very vague, in order to afford the Japanese
authorities a means of escupe should the military or other
influences at any timc object to the participation on equal
terms of foreign c pital in thc petroleum r fining incustry
of Japan.
Stock-hol ing Requirements.
As was stated in the Embassy's despatch No. 1017, dated
October 19, 1934, and in the Embassy's telegram No. 2,
October , 5 p.m., the Departrent of Commerce and Industry
refused to grant the foreign oil cor aries a postponement of
the time by which the supplemental plans for im ortation and
storage of oil had to be submittec. Un r ate of November
5, 1934, the Department of Conimerce and Industry addressed
identic letters to the Managers in Japan of the Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company and the Rising Sun Petroleum Com any, re-
quiring the oil copanics to submit their storage and importa-
tion plans by November 15, 1934, and ad ing, "in case you fail
to respond to our request promptly, a smooth execution of your
company's business plan for 1935 might be interfered with"
(Embassy's telegram No. 24), November 6, 7 p.m.). A copy of
the translation of the letter as made by the Standard-Vacuum
11
Oil Company is enclosed. The representatives of the foreign
oil companies discussed the matter with their respective Em-
bassies, as a result of which it was decided that the oil com-
panies send to their respective head offices some definite
plan in the premises which those head offices could present
to their Governments with a request for support. On November
8, 1934, the American and British oil companies completed their

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
joint plan, which they requested their respective Embassies
to forward in code for them, as they feared that their own
codes were available to the Japanese (Embassy's telegram
No. 249, November 8, 7 p.m.). The plan submitted was much
the same as that previously suggested by this Embassy and
by the British Embassy to their respective Governments,
namely, that steps be taken to control the export of crude
oils to Japan if the Japanese  ersist in compelling the
foreign oil companies to store a part of their war-time
reserves of oil for them. The British Embas:y forvarded
a similar telegram for the British oil company, while the
Netherlands Minister sent is Government a long cable ex-
plaining the plight of the foreign oil conpanies and con-
cluding with the opinion that there would be no hope of
amelioration of the situation unless the foreign oil companies
and the American, British and Netherlands Governments pre-
sented a united front to the Japanese on the question.
SHRHCEAY
The Embassy has been indirectly informed that the Bri-
CONFHDPHHHAH
tish Embassy has received an instruction from its Foreign
Office to the effect that the Forcign Office considers the
demand of the Department of Comnerce and Industry that the
storage and import plans be submitted by November 15 as an
attempt to "prejudge" the issue, and instructing the British
Embassy to support the British oil company in its refusal to .
comply with the demand.
Under date of November 15, 1934, the two foreign oil
companies sent letters of similar purport to the Department
of Commerce and Industry, again requesting a postponement of
the time by which the supplemental plans covering storage and
importation

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
importations for 1935 must be submitted, on the ground that
discussions were in progress between the Japanese Government
and their Governments and that their head offices could not
reach a decision in regard to the future until these discus-
sions had further progressed. A copy of the letter sent to
the Department of Com..erce and Industry by the Standard-Vacuum
21
Oil Company is enclosed herewith.
It appears that, as a result of the diplomatic representa-
tions which have been made, of the adverse comment abroad
which has be en caused by the publicity given the uestions
of the oil monopoly in Manchuria and the oil control in Japan,
and of the gra ual realization on the part of the Japanese
authorities of the unworkability of their scheme in its pre-
sent form, ther is now some tendency on the part of the au-
thorities to mitigate the severity of the stock-holding re-
quirements. This tondency is illustrated by three conversa-
tions which members of the staff of the Embassy have had
3/4/5/
with Japanese officials, memoranda of hich are enclosed. The
first was a conversation which Mr. Dickover had with Vice
Admiral Hasegawa, Vice Minister of the Navy, on November 5,
1934, and the other two were conversations which Mr. Neville
had with Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the Bureau of Commercial Af-
fairs of the Foreign Office, on November 13 and November 14,
1934.
The only fruit borne as yet of this tendency to mitigate
the severity of the stock-holding provisions of the law con-
sists of a probable concession as regards what will constitute
the six-months' stock required by th: regulations. Formerly
the requirements were that the stock must be held in tanks of
a stipulated minimum size located in places designated by the
Government.

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
Government. These conditions practically excluded from
the six months' stock the oil firms' working stocks, which
normally were largely in storage tanks at the sea-ports,
in tank-cars, in tank lighters, in small distribution
tanks at inland points, in service st tion t nks, in c ns,
etc. Under date of November 14, 1934, horever, Mr. Kurusu,
the Chief of the Commercial Bureau of the Foreign Office,
transmitted to this Embasey and to the British Embassy an
explanation in English of the stock-holding regulations,
in which it is statec that, subject to the permission of
the Minister of Com erce and Industry, the cil may be held
The explanation further st: tes that only three months!
stock must be held in storage prior to October 1, 1935,
and implies that the six months' stock may be gradually built
up, over a period of twelve months, after October 1, l935.
Accorcing to the representatives of the foreign oil companies,
however, this concession will have little practical effect,
as technical difficulties will prevent the oil con panies from
including the largest part of thcir working stocks in the
storage stocks. It will, however, make a difference of from
two to three weeks' stocks. Despite this concession, there-
fore, the great bulk of the six months' storage stocks would
still have to be imported and helc as idle stocks.
A copy of the letter from Mr. Kurusu, with its enclosures,
6/
is enclosed for the information of the Department.
Miscellaneous.
As is shown in the memorandum of the conversation of
November

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
-7 -
November 13, 1934, between Mr. Kurusu and Mr. Neville, re-
ferred to above, Mr. Kurusu was very anxious to arrange a
conference between himself and Mr. Yoshino, the Vice Minis-
ter of Commerce and Industry, on tie one side, and the re-
presentatives of the f reign oil co panirs, on the other.
The re resentatives of the oil companies were somewhat
chary of accepting this invitation, as they feared that an
attempt would be made to maneuver them into a disadvanta-
geous position, or to t ke the negotiations out of diploma-
tic channels by transferring them to private conversations,
or to drive avedge betwen the British and American interests
and thus to destroy the hitherto united front. After con-
sultation with their respective Embassies, however, the
foreign oil companies deci ed to accept the invitation to
the conference, as not to do so would not only appear dis-
respectful but would also lay them open to tho charge of
refusing to listen to any explanations or comprorise plans
which the authorities might have to offer. The various
dangers referred to above they decided to avoid by stating
explicitly that they had no authority to comnit their com-
panies, as the power of decision la in their hea offices,
and that, moreover, as their Governments were inter sted in
the question and were discussing it with the Japanese Govern-
ment, anything said would be conveyed to their respective
Embassies. The conference wil? prob bly he held in the
early part of next week.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
There is little doubt that the stock-holding provision
of the Petroleum Industry Law is largely a military measure,
designed

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
-8 -
designed to build up reserves of oil in Japan for use
in case of war. It may be difficult to ad uce evidence
that any official pronouncement was ever made to this
effect, but corsiderable unofficial evicence can be found
7/
to support this cont ntion. Thus, there is enclosed here-
with an excerpt from a specch maoe by Mr. K. dashimoto,
the President of th Mipoon Oil Co  any, on October 27,
1934, before the stockholders of the Nippon Oil Company,
in which the statement is definitely made that the stock-
holding provision is a measure of national defense. Viewed
in this light, it is respectfully sug  ted that a new line
of attack on the stock-hol ing provisions might be acopted,
by claiming that forced storing of oil by Anerican firms to
provide a war-time reserve for Japan conflicts with the
last paragraph of rticle 1 of the Treaty of Commerce and
Navigation of 19ll between the United States and Japan,
which reads as follows:
"They shall, however, be exempt in the
territories of the othor ro compulsory
military service either on land or sea,
in the regular forces, or in the national
guard, or in the milita; from all contri-
butions imposed in lieu of personal service,
and from all forced loans or military exac-
tions or contributions."
If the Department considers that there is any possibility
that this line of action could be adopted, the Embassy will
gather and transmit to the Department all possible evidence
indicating

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.96)
- 9 -
indcating that the stock-holding recuirement is a "military
exaction".
Respectfully yours,
2.
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
1/ Translation of let er as made by the Stendar -Vacuum
Company.
/ Standard-Vacuum Company letter to the Department of
Commerce and Industry.
3/4/5/ Memorandum of conv-rsetions.
6/ Copy of letter from r. Kurusu, Chief of Commercial
Bureau of the Forign Office.
7. Excerpt ror a speech made by the Pr sident of the
Nippon Oil Company.
863.6
FRD:g
4

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
Iuclosure No
to despatch
No 106 0 of UN. 16, 1434 from the
bassy at Tokyo.
C O P Y.
TRANSLATION OF INWARD LETTER.
Dated Nov. 5th, 1934.
From: The ine Bureau of thc Dept. of Conu:erce & Industry.
To:
Management (Standar-Vacuum Corporation)
Translated by: Y. Yama oto.
Date: Nov. 6th 1934.
9 Ko Otsu No: 596c-Hei.
Mr. J.C. Goold, represent tive in Japan
of Standard-Vacuum Oil Company.
Dear Sir:
We beg to raw your attention to the f ct that while
we, in our letter dated October 13th (9 Ko Otsu No:5966),
requested you promptly to send us a supplement of your
a plication for permission for ti. 1975 business plan of
your company, you have not sent us the recuired stutcment
as yet, with the result thnt we cre not a little incon-
verienced in the performence of our uties concerning the
operation of the Petroleum Industry Law.
You are the efore required to present the supplemen-
tary st tement by the 15th inst. without fail.
We may add that, in case you fail to respond to our
request promptly, a smooth execution of your company's
business plan for 1935 might be interfered with.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.98)
to despatch
2
No 1060 of Un 16, 143" from the
C O P Y.
Embassy at Tokyo:
November 15, 1934.
His Excellency
Machida Chuji,
Minister of Commerc ane Industry,
T o k y o.
Your Excellency:
We have for acnowlecgment your Departmental letter
#9 Ko Otsu #5966 dated November 5th fron Mr. T. Fukuda,
the substance of vwhich has beon conveyed to our Head Of-
fice in New York.
We believe Your Excellency is familiar with the fact
that friendly discussions are now in progress between the
Imperial Japanese Government and thc Covernment of the
United States of A erica concerning the osition of the
American Oil Companies under the Petroleum Control Law
of Japan. In view of this, and although regretting any
inconvenience a further delay may cause, we again res-
pectfully recuest permission to postpone filing the re-
quired supplement until these discussions hav progressed
further and our Head Office can reach a decision in regard
to the future.
We are,
Your Excellency's most obedient servants,
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY,
General Manager
JCG:FR

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.99)
3
w05.1b,1424
1060
MEMORANDUM
November 6, 1934.
Conversation:
Mr. Dickover and Vice Admiral Hasegawa,
Vice Minister of the Navy.
During the course of the conversation at ainner last
evening, I told Admiral Hasegawa that the oil question had
not, as far as I knew, been brought up purposely at this
time, when the naval conversations vere taking place, and
that it was simoly a coincidence, caused by the Ministry of
Commerce and Inaustry insisting at the moment on the storage
of oil by the foreign firms. Admiral Hasegawa said that he
understood that. I asked Ad iral Hasegawa what he thought
of the Japanese oil control scheme. He saia that he aic not
think that it was very good- that it was not workable.
I said that the plan of forcing the oil companies to
store six months' supply of oil was comnercially impossible;
that for the Japanese oil companies it might be a patriotic
gesture for which they would sacrifice something, but that
for the foreign oil companies, who naturally were looking
to profits, the cheme was not possible, as they could not
make enough profit in Japan under the quota system to pay
interest on the increased investment.
The Admiral said that that was his opinion also; that
the scheme was commercially impossible; and that he thought
that the law would have to be altered in favor of the foreign
oil companies.
E.R.D.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.98)
4
to despatch
sue No
No1060
of .16.1.1 from the
E: basry at Tokyo.
Conversation.
November 13, 1934.
Mr. Neville and Mr. Kurusu, Chief
of the Commercial Bureau of the
Foreign Office.
Petroleum Industry Law.
I had lunch with Mr. Kurusu at the Tokyo Club. I
asked him what the phrase "hangaku ijo" meant in the
memorancum (par. 3) which had heen sent to us in regard
to the operation of the oil law in Japan. He laughed
and said that he had inquired of the Department of Com-
merce an Inustry an had been tol: that in that connec-
tion it meant not less than half or half or more. He
said that he had not been quite certain himself and did
not blame anyone for being confused. He then told me
that he had prepared an explanation of the law which he
would send to me, ane showed me a draft which he had in
his pocket. I told him in reply to a question that I
should be glad to have a copy, and would send it on to the
oil companies. He asked me if I wanted it sent in a note
from the Foreign Minister. I said that it did not make
much difference in what form the Embassy received it, so
long as we had assurance that it was authentic and would
not be repudiated by some Government Department if it were
presented in evidence. He said that there would be no
question of that. He then asked if it would not be possible
for the oil companies to meet him and Mr. Yoshino. I said
that I did not know, as I was not aware of the representatives'
plans in this regard. I said that I understood that the local
agents

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
agents had put the whole situation up to their head offices,
and that they were not in a position to commit the companies
to any course of action. He asked me whether I knew what
was in the minds of the oil nen. I said that so far as
I knew they wer under the inpression that it was the Go-
vernment's intention to put them out of business in Japan
so far as importation of refined products was concerned, and
that the stock holding re uirement was a step in this direc-
tion. Further the insistence upon fixing the date of No-
vember 15 as the dead line, when the authorities knew that
they were unable to comply with the six months' stock
holding requirement had confirmed them in this impression,
and they (the local agents) seemed to be in the frame of
mind to do nothing and accept whatever happened rather than
commit their principals to a big expenditure and lose their
business anyway. He said that they were under a misapprehen-
sion; that it was no one's intention to put them out of busi-
ness -- in fact it was impossible. He said that they could
submit some figures and revise them latcr. I said they were
afraid to do that because they had submitted some figures
before and their quota had been cut down, even when it was
known that a mistake had been made. They felt that nothing
was to be gained and that it was merely an attempt to put
them in a hole. I did not know, I said, what they intended
to do, but they were unable to submit a complete storage
plan even if willing. He said that this was an unfortunate
frame of mind; that he would look into the question of sub-
mitting a pro forma plan with the power of revising it later;
that

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
that he would be present at any interview they wished
to have with Yoshino, and they would have written explana-
tions of anything that was told them. I said that I should
convey his remarks to Mr. Goold, but could not answer for
him as I was not handling the matter.
E.L.N.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
ELCIODU.
5
to despaich
No 1060 of N 16,112.4
from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation.
November 14, 1934.
Mr. Neville and Mr. Kurusu, Chief
of the Commercial Bureau of the
Foreign Office.
Petroleun Industry Law.
I met Mr. Kurusu at dinner at the Netherlands Lega-
tion. He told me that he had prepared an English explana-
tion of cert in passages of the Petroleum Law which refer
to the stock keeping requirements. I said that I should be
glad to have it, an woul send a copy to Mr. Goold. He
said that he was also sending a similar letter to the Dri-
tish Embassy.
I told him that I understood that the oil companies
were having difficulties with their cuotas, as the demand
for oil products, particularly gasoline, was increasing.
He said that the Department of Commerce and Inustry was
somewhat troubled, he understood, by the situation. Ap-
parently the demand for pe roleum products is increasing
with the growing use of motor vehicles for transportation.
He said he did not know how that petroleum control could work
satisfactorily under present arrangements. He seomed to
think that the foreign oil companies were not being very
helpful to the authorities, as the Japanese companies were
having difficulties too. I said that while that was true,
the Japanese companies had the propsect of ultimate increased
business, while the foreign companies had been told that
the most they could expect was that their present business
would

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
would not be cut down, as they could only have increased
quotas when all the Japanese companies had been satisfied,
or something of the sort. He laughed and said that it
looked like a mud le; that the Foreign Office only was
consulted when the other Departnent got into trouble,
and then had only the job of conciliating the outsiders.
I told him that I could not expect hin to admit openly
that the law was unworka le and lore harder on the foreign
companies than on the Japanese concerns, but I thought so.
He said that he felt badly that the foreign concerns seemed
to think that they were not welcome to do busines: in
Japan, because the oil busines could not be conducted with-
out them, a f-ct which they nust rcalize. He said that
some Japanese refiners we e complaining that they had idle
equipment, and he had told the Department of Conmerce and
Industry that it must be because their equipment was not
up to date, to which I replied that oil refining was a
complicated process depending on a number of f ctors of
which I had no knowledge, such as the com position of the
crude oil, continuity of operations and other things, in-
cluding the character of the equipment and the personnel
of the refining staff.
E.L.N.

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No
No 1060 of v. 16, 11 from tho
Emhassy at Tokyo.
C O P Y
THE GAIMUSHO
TOKIO.
November 14th, 1934.
Dear Mr. Neville,
With reference to the Article 5 of the Petroleum
Law, which makes it obligatory for importers to keep a
certain amount of oil in stock, I beg to enclose herewith,
for your information, a copy of the "Explanations on Legal
Obligation to Hold Oil," which has been prepared by the
Foreign Office.
I am given to understand by the officials directly
in charge of the affair, that the figures put in the appli-
cation forms in accoraance with the provisions of the "Regu-
lations relating to the application of the Oil Law", can be
subsequently altered if the reason for alteration is recog-
nized to be ample and justifiable by the Minister of Com-
merce and Industry.
Very faithfully yours,
(Signed) S. Kurusu.
Mr. Eawin L. Neville,
Counselor,
American Embassy.

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
Explanations on Legal Obligation to Hold Qil.
By virtue of Art icle 5 of the Oil Law, Article 6 of
the Imperial Ordinance relating to the Application of the
Oil Law (hereinafter referred to as "the Ordinance") and
Article 16 of the Regulations relating to the Application
of the Oil Law (hereinafter referred to as "the Regulations"),
any person who imports oil is under obligation to hold this
substance to the extent of not less than one-half of the
quantity imported by him in the preceding year. The oil
to be so held must be kept, as a matter of principle,
in tanks of a prescribed capacity, under Article 7 of the
Ordinance and Article 19 of the Regulations; but, if the
permission of the Minister of Commerce and Industry is
obtained in accordance with the proviso of Paragraph 1,
Article 7 of the Ordinance and under Article 20 of the
Regulations, the said oil may be held in tanks of less
than the prescribed capacity and also may be held by
methods other than that of tankage. It is understood
thatthe Department of Commerce and Industry, with a view
to alleviating the difficulties to which the merchants
concerned may be put, will grant the above-mentioned
permission in so far as the methods of holding oil for
which they may apply are adequate and practicable for the
purpose of the Law.
The obligation to hold oil comes into force on April
1st, 1935. For the priod from April 1st to September 30th,
1935, the quantity of oil to be held must not be less than
one-half of the quantity imported during the six months
from

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
from July 1st to December 31st, 1934- that is to say,
no more than three months' imports. In the light of
Article 16 of the Regulations, it may seem that the quan-
tity of oil to be held during the period from April 1st
to September 30th, 1935, must not be less than one-half
of the quantity cleared through the Customs between January
1st and December 3lst, 1934, but this is not the case. The
explanation is that, as the Oil Law did not come into force
until July 1st, 1934, no account is taken of the quantity
imported prior to that date.
If, in the ordinary course of business, oil importers
hold in stock a quantity of oil corresponding approximately
to two or three months' imports, as is generally considered
to be the case, it ust not be particularly difficult for
them to fulfil their obligation of holding oil, since the
quantity to be held for the period from April 1st to Sep-
tember 30th, 1935, is not much in excess of the quantity
usually held in stock. Moreover, in storing oil, they
need not necessarily adopt the tanks specified in Article
19 of the Regulations as mentioned above. It is true that
from Uctober 1st, 1935, onwards, the quantity of oil to
be retained on hand will increase to a figure corresponding
to six months' imports, in the course of twelve months,
but even then that part of this increase which is due to the
Oil Law and is in excess of the ordinary stock is no more than
three or four months' imports.
The merchants concerned will be well-advised to form
their concrete business plans as early as possible and make
the

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
the necessary application to the Department of Commerce
and Industry, and they have also to apply to that Depart-
ment for permission to use their existing equipment for
holding oil where such equipment is of a kind available for
the purpose. The Department will naturally consider only
cases in which applications are made, and if this necessary
procedure is neglected, they will have no means of exercising
favourable consideration.

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.98)
Encosure No
to despatch
No 1060 of 0. 1b,144
from the
Embassy at Tokyo:
Excerpt for Speech made by r. K. Hashimoto,
Presicent of th: Nippon Oil Company, before
te Stockholders of the Nippon Oil Company,
October 27, 1934.
Referring to the stock-holding uty provi ed for
in the Petroleum Industry Law, it means a very heavy
burden on the oil importers generally, inasmuch as it makes
it necessary for them to erect storage-tanks, and the possi-
ble evaporation los: on their stocks (the Law requires the
holding of stocks covering six months' recuirements), in-
terest on the money tied up, etc. amount to a considerable
sum. From our business point of view, it is decidedly un-
necessary for us to hold so large a quantity of oil. It is
quite obvious that the stock-holding reguirement is for
the sake of national defence. The Government thercfore
ought to pay the expenses for this duty. Al! the oil com-
panies presented a joint appeal to the Government in this
connection. Ve are told that the G vernment is consider-
ing it.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
do
November 27, 1934.
copn
6inl Sroyo
LeCAL
CONVERSATTON:
Dee 3, 34
Er. Mersey F. Joe,
EASTERN AFFAIRS
Standard-Vacuum il lompeny.
A
1971
r. cay.
Devartment of State
subject:
Japanese etroleum  ororoly end
helate
ovelopments and
roblems.
Hr. Coe called and discussed at considera le len th
various phases cf t e oil situatien both in dn an und in
894
Manchuria. ll of Ir. Joe's remarks were of interest but
there were included th erein ut few statements wiicl seemed
to brin nearer a solution of the problems under discussion. 
6363/142
Mr. Joe stated that tie cil  tuation in Janan con-
stituted "a fine tettle of fish"; that, frankly speaking,
his company did not know what its next move s ould he;
that he 'new of no recent  evelonments of importance other
than tre receipt today by cuble of two messages (copies
attached hereto) adcressed to tie New Tork office of the
Shell Company by that company's London office wh ich messages
in brief indicate
(a) the intention of shell's London office to
instruct its Yokohama renresentative to comply with the
Japanese suggestion for the submission of provisional
import plans provided the Standard-Vacuun Cil Company decide
to take similar action;
(b) the

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2-
(b) the opinion of Shell's London office that the
representatives of the principally interested oil companies,
which representatives are now en route to the Far East, should
meet and confer at Shanghai (about December 17) and that
thereafter they should proceed to Japan for a detailed
discussion of the oil situation w:th annropriate officials
of the Japanese Government; that such discussion, however,
should not take place until the American, British and Dutch
Governments have paved ti e way i. mea. s of a further
diplomatic approach to the Japanese Government; and
(c) the desire of Shell's London office to
ascertain whether the Standard-Vacuum (il Company would be
willing to consider the question of participating with
Shell in a joint refinery in Japan.
"ith regard to item (a), as above-indicated, Mr. Coe
stated that, provided tl.e Department agrees, the Standerd-
Vacuum Oil Company will tomorrow, November 28, cable both
its London and its Yokohama representatives to proceed, in
company with the Rising Sun Petroleum Company, with the
submission to the Japanese authorities of provisional
import plans. Mr. Mackay stated that if the action con-
templated meets with the approval of the oil companies
concerned and also that of the American and British Embassies
perceive
rReys
in Tokyo, the Department would
no objection thereto.
Mr. Coe also stated his intention to
his company's
nnus
London representative to endeavor to ascertain what the
British

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
British Government now proposes to do and also "what the
British Government proposes to tell Washington."
With regard to item (b), as above-indicated, Mr. Coe
asked whether the British Government had, within the last
few days, made furtl er renresentations to the Japanese
Government in regard to t e oil situation in Japan. Mr.
Mackay replied that l.e new of no such action althouch,
as previously stated, the Department understands that on
November 24 a further approach to the Japanese Government
was made by the British Emba:sy in Tokyo in regard to the
oil situation in Manchuria.
With regard to item (c), as above-indicated, Mr. Coe
stated, as his opinion, that the Standard-Vacuum Cil
Company would not be interested in joining its British
competitor in a scheme for joint refinirg in Japan.
Mr. Coe stated that his company had received a cable
(copy attached hereto), dated November 27, from its Yokohama
office to the effect that the ippon Cil Company has called
for tenders on 13,000 tons of crude oil for delivery in
Manchuria but that, in accord with the Shell and tre Texas
oil companies, the Standard-Vacuum Cil Company would not,
unless the situation changes within the next twenty-four
hours, submit a bid.
Mr. Coe referred to governmental control in France of
the oil industry and stated that the French regulations
are far less drastic than those which the Japanese Government
1s

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
is now attempting to impose. Mr. Coe cited, in support
of his statement, the fact that the "Standard Oil Company"
now holds a refining license issued by the French Govern-
ment, which license covers an operating period of twenty
years. lir. Coe stated his intention of supplyin the
Department with a deta'led statement in regard to the
French'regulations. Ir. Mackay stated that e would be
very pleased to receive ir. Coe's renort on the matter.
Lr. Coe stated that although the De artment is no
doubt fully aware of all developments of importance in
regard to the oil situation in Ma.churia, he wished to
leave copies (attached hereto) of certain recent
inter-office correspondence of the Stardard-Vacuum Cil
Company. Mr. Mackay thanked ir. Joe for his wish to Heep
the Department fully and currently informed of all
developments in regard to tle subjccts under discussion.
r. Mackay stated that under date November 23
(see Feiping's telegram No. 537, November 24, 11 a.m.),
the American Consulate General at Jiarbin informed the
American Legation at Peiping of its understanding that
the National Steam Navigation Comnany is arranging to
take over, presumably at larbin, the sale of petroleum
products if and when the oil sales monopoly becomes
effective. Mr. Coe stated that he lmew nothing in regard
to the company named but thanked Mr. Mackay for bringing
the matter to his attention.
In

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
In taking leave, Mr. Coe again expressed his
appreciation for the assistance and comilete cooperation
which the Denartment has at all times accorded his comcany
and stated that he would report promptly to the bepartment
all future developmerts of importance.
FE:RCM/DLY

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
From London Shell office to New York Shell office,
November 27, 1934.
We propose to telegraph as follows to Yokohama but
we will not do so until you confirm that it will meet
friends' views:
"We agree to complete Form 4 return provisionally
with covering letter to the effect that the form is
submitted subject to alterations and conditionally
upon decision of our principals as to whether or to
what extent they are able to continue business in
Japan under the conditions imposed by Petroleum
Industry Control Law SToP For your private informa-
tion we are still in hopes joint diplomatic repre-
sentation by Dutch Government, United States Govern-
ment, British Government on the general question of
according fair treatment to the foreign oil companies
who have been established in Japan for so many years
and we are of the opinion that detailed discussions
between Japan Government representatives and repre-
sentatives of foreign oil companies should not take
place prior to this joint diplomatic approach STOP
In the meantime can you clarify to any extent the
report on interview for instance when it was stated
that foreign companies could obtain long term say
ten year guarantee for present trade in all products
Doos

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Does this mean present peroentage of the trade or
does it mean foreign companies are to be discriminated
against by accord Japan companies all in consumption
(by according Japanese companies all increase in con-
sumption) SToP Are we to understand refineries com-
pletely owned by foreign capital would not be dis-
criminated against in any way STOP Again what are
indications underlying statement that if the burden
of stockholding was too heavy for foreign companies
Japanese Government would have to reconsider question
having regard to the possible alternative source of
supply SToP We emphasize that while we are willing to
complete Form 4 return provisionally it should be done
only with safeguards already referred to and without
committing ourselves in any way stock regulations."

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
From London Shell office to New York Shell office,
Novomber 27, 1934.
Following is for friends We propose to ask Godber to
proceed direot to Shanghai where he is due 17th (December)
on the understanding that he will be there met and confer
with Walden and Parker before departure all three proceed-
ing afterwards to Japan as joint representatives common
industry STOP By that time diplomatic situation should
have developed and we anticipate the way will be clear
for three representatives to disouss position on purely
commercial basis STOP As there appears to be probability
of refining in Japan it may be desirable in order to pro-
tect position of the market would friends be willing to
consider joint refinery soheme with us.

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
Yokohama to New York, November 27.
Yokohama cabled to the effeot that:
Mitsui advise that Nippon Oil Company call for
F.0.B. tenders crude oil Manohuria 13,000 tons
loading middle of January any port including
Netherlands India. Specifications will be same as
previous tender and if cannot be met a 35 gravity
crude will be sufficient.
Unless position changes within the next 24 hours we
propose to notify Japan that in accord with Shell and
Texas we will not quote.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.98)
Dear Lersey.
Is there anything in these letters which should be
passed on to Dr. Hornbeck? Sinoe these letters were written
the Monopoly law was promulgated to be effective Dec. lst
"I think this orrect" News reports say we were to be given
a share in the Monopoly agonoy selling organization but
we have had no explanation or anything from Shenghai on it.
The only new and interesting item in these letters seems to be
the faot that all members of Finanee Department who interviewed
our people were Japanese.
A.G.MAY
Refers to Shangha1 letter No.1212 Oct. 30,1934.

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
No. 1212.
SHANGHAI
Spl.File.
October 30, 1954.
Proposed Oil : onopoly - Hanchoukuo.
Standard-Vacuum il Company,
26, Broadway,
NEN YORS CITY.
Dear Sirs,
In reply to your caule of octoper 24th:-
"Telegraph us any recent developments of interest anciuria
Oil Yonopoly."
we cabled you as follows:-
"Refer to your telegram of Octooer 24th, the following message
was telegraphed Yokohama October 22nd, quote:-
'Lanchoukuo officials interviewed oy Company representatives
state definite policy oil monopoly effective early next
year on basis Government will sell throuah  anehuria
Petroleum Co. total production Dairen refinery and ushun
SroP Further requirements to be purchased ex Dairen or
Newchwang from three fore ign c ompunies and Japanese lignt
oil importers on juota pased on bercentages past two
years SToP Old brands will oe auolished and all packages
will bear Monopoly mark entire market ing in their hands
who will use our organizat ion as necessary SfoP ye are
requested to supply information by November 15th sales for
last two years also particulars of railway plants and
equipment which will be purchased SToPonopoly laws
not as yet promuleated Srop ve c onsider strone protest
at earliest date nossible essential and suggest if you
conour that you re uest Hew York to give this matter
newspaper publicity STOP
ve await your reply pefore
submitting figures.
unquote. "
e attach a detailed report from our loukden office
oovering the conference at Hsinkine. You will observe that
our cable covers the main points. As stated, this informat ion
was cabled to our Yokohama office, who renlied as follows:-
"We are to-day repeating to New York your telegram of October

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.98)
2.
New York.
No. 1212.
22nd also this message STOP
'Friends and ourselves are in touch witn respective
Embassies and will keep you informed 3Top Embassy
advise us they have received copy of Peiping/vashington
cable oct. 2lst, which fully reports result of repre-
sentatives' interview at Hsinking ct. 19th, out can
take no further action unless instructed by lashington
because Foreign uffice Pokyo has not replied to repre-
sentations of Sent. 25th 3T0P
ve are informed that
Oot. 24th Associated fress Pokyo cabled American ews-
papers details proposed 'onopoly from political viewpoint
also understand Reuter anenuria Lave telegraphed to
Eng land 3 TOP
PFor the present sua est ithhold the
information reguested o authorities.'"
No arrangement has oeen made for a conference of
representatives of our territory with Legation officials at
Tokyo, as the matter is having the attention of our officials
and little can be accomplished pend ing a reply from the Japanese
Government. As soon as a reply is received we shall take such
steps as the nature of the reply may dictate. In the meant ime
we shall refrain from givin, the inormation requested to the
Manohoukuo Government, as our Yokohama office have suggested.
Cables regard ing the monopoly which have made front
page news in the local papers for two or three days indicate
that Manchoukuo and Tokyo correspondents have eiven this contem-
plated monopoly wide international puolicity.
The officials at Hsinking invited all of the important
agents of the three major oil c omnunies to attend a meeting at
Hsinkine on Friday, Octouer 26th, to discuss the appointment of
agents under the proposed Monopoly Bureau. Our Moukden office,
as soon as they heard of this proposal, circularized all agents
request ina them to reply to the officials stating that they were
already under signed agreement to sell our prod ucts and suegest-
ing that the Honopoly Bureau take the matter up direct with us.
We understand that the representatives of the other oil companies
wrote their agents alone similar lines.
Yours very truly,
SPAIHDARD-VACUUL OIL COITANY
(SGD.) F. J. TWOGOOD
Enc1.
General Manager.
NGW-VM
C/C Yokohamm
B

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY
Letter No. 1106
File CF
Oct. 30/34
JBL/LCJ/BY
From MOUKDEN
To
SHANGHAI
OIL LONOPOLY
In accordance with your request, it was arr nged that :r.
Loucks of this office, together with Ir. lallace of tle ...
were to proceed to Hsinking on hursday, ct. 18th
to interview the Finance e artment. Due to a udder. illness
of Mr. Loucks, it was considereo advisaole that :r. Jones
proceed to Hsinking with Lr. Vallace. he uxas Co. were
informed but did not send a representative.
Mr. vallace and r. Jones caller on the ureau of inance on
Priday, 0ctober 19th, at 10:30 a.m.
After they luc statec
their reasons for coming to sinking, they were handed over
to the following men, who were said to represent the Finance
Department:
Hr. K. Namba, Vice-Director of : onopoly Bureau,
Mr. Furuki, Chief of eneral  ffairs Sect ion of  onopoly Bureau,
Hr. Nagamatsu, echnical dvisor to und Hon-official 'ember
of the inance epartment,
Lr. Noboru Hakano, Jepartment of oreien fairs,
acted as internreter.
ve attach hereto copies of the name cards given us oy tiese
gentlemen.
The above were all Japanese, no Hanchoukuo officials of Chinese
or Manchu descent beine present.
Mr. K. Namba started the conversations oy stat ing that for
reasons of economic development and national defence, the
Manohoukuo Government had definitely decided on an oil control
polioy. He further amplified this statement by stat ing that
they were sorry for the foreign oil irms who in the past nad
enjoyed practically full control of t) e oil bus iness in anchu-
ria, and they realized that the ousiness of these firms would
be greatly affected. However, inasmuch as the Government had
decided on a Government oil monopoly, they re uested that
foreien firms fully assist the lovernment in taking over
control. He int imated that those firms ass ist ine the Covern-
ment in their policy now, would be given spec ial consideration
later. The sum and substance of r. Namba's statements were
as follows:
1. The Government oil monopoly would control the entire
sales organization. No parties except the Government,
would be allowed to have agencies or to sell in jlanchoukuo
after the oil monopoly law was promulgated.
2. It would be the object of the Government to first fully

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
dispose of the entire output of the Fushun Shale Plant
and the Government's new refinery at Dairen, in order
to enc ourage domestic industries.
3. The Government would call public tenders at Dairen for
any shortage in demand of refined prod ucts whioh the
Fushun Plant and the Dairen refinery would not be able
to supply. This shortage in supplies would be allotted
to the Texas Co., .V.Co., A.P.Co., and other oil
companies heretofore doinp business in anchoukuo, on
a quota percentage oasis, pased on their c omparative
percentages during the past two years, provided of course
that prices suomitted oy these firms on such tenders were
not exorbitant. In such an event the Government would
then be compelled to look elsewhere for fair treatment.
Present agencies of the various oil companies now in
Manchuria would oe utilized as far as possiole oy the
Government monopoly as distriouting suo-agei ts. Also
all equipment witr the exception of plants at Dairen and
Newchwang, would be nurchased uy the Governnent at a
reasonable price to pe jointly agreed unon later.
Preference would also oe given to present companies as
regards purchase of crude oil for the new refinery at Dai-
ren. The Government was however very much surprised that
on the ir first tender, none of the three companies had
quoted and asked our reasons for this non-cooperat ion.
Mr. allace and r. Jones replied that the Moukden offices
of the i.P.C. and ..C. had not been requested to quote.
6.
The new monopoly law rad not yet been promulgater but was
expected to be passed snortly. hey promised to send us
copies of the new law after promulgation.
7.
All purohases ex Dairen of refined supplies must be packed
in tins of spec ial size anā marked on the tin as a product
of the Government Oil Monopoly. Brands of present comnanies
would be abolished.
8.
The monopoly has not yet decided to exercise control over
lubricatine oils or products other than "light oil",
kerosene and gasoline. Al such other products would be
permitted to enter in future under Government license only
and allowed to be disposed of wherever possible withont
restriction.
Super brokers or agents would be established by the Govern-
ment Monopoly who would, in turu, dispose of the Govern-
ment's produots through sub-agents at stipulated prices.
10.
The Government did not intend to seize interior equipment
of the present companies and would not force them to sell.
Inasmuch, however, as such oil companies would not be
allowed to sell such products as "light oil", kerosene or

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
gasoline in future, the Monopoly oonsidered that the
present companies would not require such equipment,
and in order to prevent the present oil companies from
experienoing heavy losses, they would be prepared to
take over such eguipment at fair prices, to be decided
upon later.
11.
The Monopoly, therefure, requests the various oil comoanies
to give them the followine information, on or before "ov.
10th, 1934, but oertainly not 1ater than Nov. 15th:
(a) Sales and Imports of kerosene and pasoline durin, the
past two years;
(b) List of all present agencies and suo-agencies;
(c) List of all plants and e uipment to be taken over
by the Government.
No statements wnatsoever were made by Ir. la lace or :r.
Jones. Questions were, Lowever, out to the aoove officials
from time to time in order to iave them more fully exnlain
their plans. As regards answers to Item 1l, poth 'essrs.
Jones and Wallace stated thut they c ould not renly at once.
but would have to place this whole question uefore th  ir
respeotive head offices in shanghai for their inal decision.
The monopoly officials then stated that of course if by, say
Nov. 15th, the various companies had not repliec, the ononoly
department would then ve compelled to go ahead and use their
own judgment regard ing the pasin of quotas.
In view of the aoove, we feel that it is extremely advisable
that a meeting be arranged at once between representatives of
the Moukden ofices of the .7.Co., A.P.Co., and noss ibly
T..C., together with representat ives from the shanghai and
Yokohama offices of these firms, and also that ritish,
Amerioan and Dutch imbassy officials be present. It is our
opinion that the present so-called oil mononoly officials in
Hsinking are so far working on pure bluff only. In our belief
they simply first ish to find out just how far they can go
with their proposed schemes without resistance on! the nart of
the oil c ompanies now doin: ous iness in : anchuria. If, after
our now calling on t nese officials, no orotests are made, it
is our pelief that they will undoubtedly go ahead and push
through some sort of an oil monopol control law. It is
believed, however, that if vigorons protests are made at once
by the British, American and Dutch Jovernments, that at least
the question of monopoly of sales can be indefinitely post-
poned. of course there may be factors concerning which you are
acguainted and we know nothing of, that would make such a
meeting inadvisable. Please realize that we are looking at
same from the Manchurian viewpoint.
If you decide that such a meeting of various representatives
of the oil companies and Embassy officials be arranged as sug-
gested above, it will also be possible to discuss fully the
question of the present "light oil" racket and duty discrimina-

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
tion now being practiced by the Manchoukuo Customs and
Japanese importers.
After discussing the above with the A.f.Co. in 'oukden, it
was our first intention to telegraph. you, but as it would be
extremely difficult to fully explain all of the above by
a telegram, we have finally decided to give you this infor-
mation by letter.
If on receipt of this letter, you wish us to take uny fi rther
steps regardin: the aoove matters, please let us know.
We believe that the American press repesentatives wl.o
recently visited I'anc huria and Japan are now in shanghai.
e suggest that you try and meet s me of these newspaper
men and arrange with them to aive this oil monopoly all the
publicity they possibly can.
e will look after what public ity we ca. get in anci uria
through local representatives.
J..Loucks
Manager -  oukden
cc Ir. Chase
Mr. Vincent
Yokohama (1)
Mr. 7allace (2)
B

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
NEW YORK
No.1530
Spl.File.
October 31,1934.
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
YOKOHAMA.
O11 Monopoly - Manchoukuo.
Dear Sirs:-
We are forwarding herewith copy of Dairen Consulate
letter of October 24th to our Moukden office as we feel it will
be of some interest to you and our Moukden letter does not indi-
cate whether or not a copy has been sent to you.
The possibility of a control law similar to the
Japanese law has been considered, but we have never felt it
desirable to suggest such a compromise owing to some of the
undesirable fea tures of the Japanese law and our uncertainty
as to your acceptance of the Japanese law as it now stands.
Recent reports from Manchuria indicate that some such comprom-
ise will present the only alterna tive to evacua ting the terri-
tory entirely. Naturally, any suggestion of a control law
with quota arrangements for the established companies will
depend entirely on the present sta tus of your negotiations
with the Japanese Government, and we will appreciate your
opinion as to the advi sability of such a proposal and the
probability of its success, if made.
As kerosene sales in the Manchurian territory during
the years 1932 and 1933 were far below normal, and the market
for gasoline is rapidly expanding, we would wish to have any
quota arrangement based on percentage of total trede re ther
than fixed quantities. The price control feature will be
undesirable, but there is a fair probability that prices will
be maintained at profitable levels in Manchuria as the refinery
at Dairen presumably will not be operating under a preferential
tariff.
Today's newspaper reports the resignation of General
Hishikari in Manchuria and we are interested in knowing whether
or not this will change the outlook for the oil companies in
Manchuria. As you know,Mr.Hashimoto, head of the Manchoukuo
Oil Monopoly Bureau, is a brother-in-law of General Hishikari
and our Moukden office have several times ascribed to this
connection the success of the officials in pressing the monopoly
idea. Your opinion on the effect of this change will be much
appreciated.
Yours very truly,
STANDA RD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
(Signed) F J Twogood
Encl.
General Manager
C/C New York
n
Moukden

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.99)
C OP Y
AMERICAN CONSULATE, DAIREN, MANCHURIA.
Oct.24,1934.
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
MUKDEN, Manchuria,
Sirs:
The receipt is acknowledged of your le tters of
Oc tober 20 and 22 concerning the proposed oil monopoly
for Manchuria. A copy of your le tter No.llo6 to your
Shanghai office and a copy of the le tter from the Di-
rector of the Bureau of Monopolies to your Mukden Chinese
agont have been forwarded by airmail to the Embassy at
Tokyo with my despatches of yesterday's and today's da tes.
For your information I quote below pertinent extracts from
my despatch transmitting your Shanghai letter No.llo6 to
the Embassy:
"I am inclined to doubt the Mukden Manager's de-
duction that the 'officials at Hsinching are so far
working on pure bluff' but I do believe that they are
not yet sure enough of their ground to be heedless of
protests and proposals for modifice tion. I feel that
it is imperative thet the foreign oil companies formu-
late as soon as possible mutually agreeable counter
proposals and not, as in the past, be content only with
protesting directiy and through their diplometic re-
presentatives on the be sis of violetion of the 'open door'
and equal opportunity. That some form of control over
the oil business in Manchuria will be established in the
near future seems to me e foregone conclusion, and the
amount of business which the foreign oil comp&nies will
be able to re tain will depend largely on the unity, de-
termination, and wisdom with which theymeet the situation.
They may look to their governments for supnort but they
must take the initiative in formulating a plen of defense.
"It is possible thet insistence on retaining the
privilege of marketing refined oil in Manchuria, accom-
panied by agreement to submit to a control and quota system
would,when backed by diplomatic protests, be effective,
In the matter of quotes, the foreign oil companies col-
lectively would be justified on the basis of present
sales, in demanding seventy-five to eighty per cent of
the market. Allowance must be made however for the pro-
ducts of the Manchuria Oil Company's refinery at Dairen
which,regardless of other developments, are going to be
sold in Manchuria. It now appears that this refinery

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
roduce 7t million gallons of refined oil a year.
represents 20 per cent of the l933 imports and about
y be the imports for l934. Hence a concession by the
foreign oil ompanies to submit to reasonable control and
to restrict their sales to roughly 65 per cent of the mar-
ket, while a forfeiture of 'open door' rights and un-
warranted on the basis of their share of the market over
a period of years, might form the basis of reaching an
agreement, whereas an uncompromising demand for the con-
tinuation of free competi tive marketing would, I fear, be
unavailaing."
I should appreciate receiving your comments on
these observations I have made to the Embassy. It is of
course impossible to calculate with any degree of certainty
the extent to which the Hsinching authorities are willing
to compromise, assuming they are willing to compromise at
all. This can only be determined through negotiations.
I very much approve of your idea for a meeting at the very
earliest moment of representatives of the foreign oil
companies concerned with representatives of the Americen,
British, and Dutch embassies and I believe thet this
meeting should be in Japan. Having decided upon some
common policy, embassy and oil representa tives should
arrange a conference with Japanese Foreign Office to
protest the monopoly and, as it will probebly be necessary,
propose some alternative plan. I believe thet every
offort should be made to avoid a conference with the
Hsinching authorities until the case is laid fully and
forcibly before the Japanese Foreign Office. Unless some
degree of support can be obtained from the Japanese
Government, I do not think conference with the Hsinching
authorities would avail anything. Time is an importent
element because once the oil monopoly law and regulations
are published it may be well nigh i possible to obta in
alteration or modifica tion.
Yours truly,
John Carter Vincent
American Consul
W

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.93)
Hovember 27, 1934.
CONVERSATION:
Mr. Keraoy F. Coe,
Standard-vmcuum Oil Company.
Mr. Mackay.
Subjeot:
Japanese Potroleum Monopoly and
Ralated  evelopments and  roblems.
Mr. Coe called and discussed at considerable length
p
various phases of the oil situation both in Japan and in
76
Manchuria. All of Mr. Coe's remarks were of interest but
there were ineluded therein ut few statements w icl seemed
6
W
to bring nearer a solution of the problems under discussion.
6
Mr. Uoe stated that the oil situation in Japan con-
W
stituted "a fine kettle of fish"; that, frankly speaking.
142
his company did not lmow what its next move should be;
that he kmew of no recent developments of importance other
than the receipt today by cable of two messages (copies
attached hereto) addressed to the New York office of the
Shell Company by that company's London office which messages
in brief indicate
(a) the intention of Shell's London ofrice to
instruct its Yokohama representative to comply wit! the
Japanese suggestion for the submission of provisional
import plans provided the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company decides
to take similar action;
(b) the

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.94)
一 8 ●
(b) the opinion of Shell's Loxion office that the
representatives of the prinoipally intorosted oil compenies,
which representatives are now en route to the Far East, should
moet and confer at Shanghai (about December 17) and that
thereafter they should procoed to Japan for a detalled
diseussion of the oil situation with appropriate officials
of the Japanese Governmment, that such disoussion, however,
should not take place until the Amerioan, British and Dutah
Governments have paved the way by means of a further
diplomatio approach to the Japenese Goverrment; and
(o) the dosire of Shell's Iondon office to
asoertain whether the tandard-Vacuum 11 Compeny would be
willing to consider the question of perticipating with
Bhell in a Joint refinery in Japan.
ith rogard to item (a), as above-indicate, Mr. Coe
stated that, provided the opartment agrees, the tandard-
Vaeunm 1l Company will tomorrow, November 28, cable both
1ts London and ita Yokohama representatives to proceed, in
company with the Rieing Sun etroleum Company, with the
submission to the Japenese suthorities of provisional
import plans. Mr. Mackay stated that if the action con-
templated meets with the approval of the oil companies
concerned and also that of the American and British Fmbaasies
in Tokyo, the Dopartmont would
ah
Mr. Coe also etated his intontion to
his company's
London representative to endeavor to ascertain what the
British

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.95)
● 8 ●
British Covernment now proposes to do and also "what the
British Cevernment proposes to toll Washington."
with regard to item (b), as above-indlcated, Mr. Coo
asked whether the British Governmont had, wi thin the last
fow days, mmde further representations to the Japanese
Covernment in regard to tho oil aituation in Japan. Mr.
Maokay replied that he imew of no such aotion although,
as previously stated, the Dopartment understands that on
November 24 a further approaoh to the Japanese Govertment
was made by the British Emba sy in Tokyo in regard to the
oil situation in Manchuria.
With regard to item (c), as above-indicated, Mr. Coe
stated, as his opinion, that the Standard-Vacuwm 11
Company would not be interested in joining its British
competitor in e sahome for joint refining in Japan.
Mr. Coe stated that his company had received a cable
(copy attaohed hereto), dated Hovamber 27, from its Yokohama
office to the offect that the Hippon 1l Compeny has called
for tenders on 13,000 tons of orude o1l for dolivery in
Manchuria but that, in accord with the Shell and t e Texas
o1l companies, the Standard-Vaonm (11 Company would not,
unless the situation changos within the next twenty-four
hours, submit a bid.
Mr. Coe referred to governmental control in France of
the oil industry and atated that the French reguletiona
are far less drastie then those which the Japanese Covornment
28

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.95)
●
is now attempting to impose. Mr. Cco cited, in support
of his statement, the faot that the "Standard Cil Ccmpany"
now holds a refining lieense iasued by the Frenah Govorn-
mont, whioh lioense covers an operat ing poriod of twenty
years. Mr. Coe stated his intontion of supplying the
Department with a deta led statement in regard to the
Prench reguletions. Mr. Mackay stated that we would be
very pleased to receive Mr. Coo's report on the matter.
Mr. Coe stated that although the epartmont is no
doubt fully aware of all cevelopments of importance in
rogard to the oil situation in Me ahuria, ho wiahod to
leave copies (attached hereto) of certain recent
inter-office correspondence of the Standard-Vaouum 11
Company. Mr. Mackay thanked Mr. Joe for his wish to keep
the Department fully and currently informed of all
developments in regard to the subjects under disoussion.
Mr. Mackey stated that undor Cate November 23
(eee eiping' tolegram No. 537, November 24, 11 a.m.),
the American Consulate Goneral at Harbin informed the
Amorioan Legation at eiping of ite understanding that
the National Steam Navigation Company is arranging to
take over, presmably at harbin, the sale of petroloum
products if and when the oll sales monopoly bocomes
offective. Mr. Coe stated that le mow nothing in regard
to the company named but thanked Mr. Maokay for bringing
the matter to his attention.
n

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.93)
● 5 
In taking leave, Mr. Coo again exprossed his
appreciation for the assistance and complete cooperation
which the Dopartmant has at all times acoorded his company
and stated that he would report promptly to the Department
all future developments of importance.
FEIRCW/DLY

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.95)
<RCAN
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEWYORK
December 4th, 1934.
Dr. Stanley H. ornbeck, Chief,
ach
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
the 10'34
Department of State,
89
Washington, D.C.
naus
4
4.6
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
In reply to a cable we sent London on
Nov. 28th, in which we again inguired regarding further representa-
9
tions to be made by the Foreign Office in respect to the Petroleum
3
Control Law in Japan, the Hew York Office of Shell interests has
11
notified us that it received Nov. 3oth, a cable which in part read:
"Have every reason to believe all parties concerned are now
closely in touch and thet full exchange of views will take place.
3
Inasmuch as we have acquiesced in the position
established abroad tnat joint diplomatic representations by Govern-
ments should take place prior to discussions between American and
British oil representatives and Japanese officials, we are naturally
hopeful that these representations be made prior to the arrival in
Japan of Messrs. Godber, Walden and Parker.
Since our last conversation with you, we wish to
confirm the fact that Mr. Parker has proceeded to Shanghai, that
Mr. Walden was due to arrive there on Dec. 3rd, and that they both
will await Mr. Godber at that point. The latter should be in
Shanghai Dec. 17th, and it is assumed that these three gentlemen
will be in Japan sometime between Dec. 20th and 25th.
We have received an abstract of an address, before
his stockholders, of Ir. Hashimoto, President of the Nippon Oil
Company and also President of the Manchu Oil Company. It is particu-
larly interesting to note that he openly states his views upon the
stockholding regulations of the Control Law as follows:-
"Referring to the stockholding duty provided for in the
Petroleum Industry Law, it means a very heavy burden on the oil
importers generally, inasmuch as it makes it necessary for them
to erect storage tanks, and the possible evaporation loss on
their stocks (the Law requires the holding of stocks covering
six months' requirements), interest on the money tied up, etc.
F
amount to a considerable sum. From our business point of view,
it is decidedly unnecessary for us to hold so large a quantity
G
of oil. It is quite obvious that the stockholding requirement

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Dr. Hornbeok.
Dec. 4/34.
"is for the sake of national defense. The Government therefore
ought to pay the expenses for this duty. All the oil companies
presented a joint appeal to the Government in this connection.
We are told that the Government is considering it."
While we were avare of the fact that the Japanese
companies were opposed to the stockholding regulations, this is the
first intimation we have had in New York that such opposition has
been so openly and strongly voiced by one who holds so prominent a
position as Mr. Hashimoto.
Sincerely yours,
Tumny F. Gor
KFC:M
Kersey F. Coe.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
(rom)
December 11 1984
4.6843/143
Deer Mr. Goe:
The reseipt is esknexledged with thanks of your
894.6363/1
Letter of Deeember 4, 1954, in further reference to the
oll situation in Japan.
with regard to the hope exprossed in the second
paragreph of your letter under acknowledgment that addi-
tiemal efficial representatiens would be made to the
43
Japamese Government prier to the arrival in Japen of the
representatives of the prineipally interested oil companies,
I mmy state that this subjeot is now receiving the atten-
tiem of both the American and British Governments.
With regard to the statement of Mr. Hashimoto, as
queted in your letter under acknowledgment, which state-
ment was also reported to the Department by the American
Embassy at Tokyo, it is of more than passing interest
that officials of Japanese as well as foreign oil companies
have
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
have fommd objectiemable certain provisiems of the Japa-
mese Petrelem Industry Law.
sineerely yours,
Fer the Searetary of State:
sot
Stamley K. Herabeek,
Chief,
Divisien of Far Eastern Affairs.
9NC 21 10
ears
o mi
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
12/10/34

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
In reply refer to
December 4, 1934.
FB 894.6363/m
Dear Mr. Teagle:
Yesterday I had the pleasure of a call from Mr. Swmin
who, at your suggestion, kindly brought me Mr. Dundas'
894.6363/143A
letter to you under date November 28, 1934, together with
its enclosures. We have had copies of these items made
for the Department's files and I am returning the originals
herewith with my thenks.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
SKH
Staniey K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Enclosure:
From Mr. Dundas,
November 28, 1934,
with enclosures.
A te copy of
the sied origi
DEC 5.
nal.M
Mr. W. C. Teagle,
30 Rockefeller Plaza,
Ch
New York, New York.
news
FE:RCM:EJL
FE

=== Page 331 === (confidence 1.00)
COPY:EJL
26 BROADWAY
H. DUNDAS
New York
November 28, 1934.
Japan Situation
Mr. W. C. Teagle,
Standard Oil Co. (New Jersey),
30 Rookefeller Plaza,
New York City.
Dear Mr. Teagle:
In order to keep you up-to-date respecting messages
that have passed in conneotion with the situation in
Japan, enclosed herewith is transcript of message from
London, November 27th, and copy of our reply to them.
Mr. Coe had an interview with Dr. Hornbeck and Mr. Mackay
in Washington yesterday and the State Department were ad-
vised of, and have made no adverse comments on the mes-
sage we are sending.
Attached also you will find incoming message from
Japan regarding invitations to quote on crude oil for
Manohukuo, and our comments to London thereon.
Yours very truly,
H. DUNDAS
HD/ED
Enc.

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY:EJL
T
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
From YOKOHAMA
To NEW YORK
Date NOV 27/34
Nippon Oil Co. (on) behalf (of) Manchuria Oil Company-s
have request-ed us through Mitsui & Co. Ltd. Tokyo for fob
quotation-s U. S. Currency by December 4th on second
purchase (of) crude oil about 13,000 tons loading-s middle
of January (from) any source including Netherland India
STOP Nippon Oil Co. state on this occasion bid-s will be
confined to ourselves friends and The Texas Co. who have
received similar inquiry SToP Specification-s to be the
same (as) mentioned in our telegram of August 22nd but if
unable to meet we are requested (to! quote crude with API
gravity as near to 35 degrees as possible SToP It seems
apparent that limiting this inquiry entirely to above
companies is to be consistent (with) policy as announced
(by) Manohuria government and at the same time (to) learn
definite-ly whether above company-s can be counted upon as
crude supplier-s or will continue opposition (to) monopoly
and in the latter case other major company-s may again be
approached SToP From what we have learned factor-s mentioned
in our telegram August 29th obtain now in ever greater degree
therefore friends and ourselves after consultation (with)
Embassy-s

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
Embassy-s feel we should inform Nippon Oil Co. we are unable
to quote at present SToP To enable us to disouss with Parker
December lst please telegraph us your views and those of The
Texas Co. as soon as possible SToP Friends are making similar
recommendation-s to London STOP We are advising Shanghai

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.99)
:EJL
TELEPHONE MESSAGE FROM H. WILKINSON
NOVEMBER 27, 1934
We propose to telegraph as follows to Yokohama but we
will not do so until you confirm that it will meet friend's
views MESSAGE BEGINS: We agree to complete Form 4 return
provisionally with covering letter to the effect that the
form is submitted subject to alterations and conditionally
upon decision of our principals as to whether or to what
extent they are able to continue business in Japan under
the conditions imposed by Petroleun Industry Law STOP For
your private information we are still in hopes joint diplo-
matic representation by Dutoh Government, U.S. Government,
British Government on the general question of according
fair treatment to the foreign oil companies who have been
established in Japan for so many years and we are of the
opinion that detailed discussions between Japanese Govern-
ment representatives and representatives of foreign oil
companies should not take place prior to this joint diplo-
matic approach STop In the meantime can you clarify to any
extent your report on interview for instance when it was
stated that foreign companies could obtain long term say l0
year guarantee for present trade in all products. Does
this mean present percentage of the trade or does it mean
foreign companies are to be disoriminated against to accord
Japanese companies all increase in consumption SToP Are we
to understand refineries completely owned by foreign capital
would

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
would not be discriminated against in any way SToP Again
what are indications underlying statements that if the
burden of stook holding was too heavy foreign companies
Japanese Government would have to reconsider question hav-
ing regard to the possible alternative source of supply
STOP We emphasize that while we are willing to complete
form 4 return provisionally it should be done only with
safeguard already referred to and without committing our-
selves in any way to stock regulations MESSAGE ENDS.

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
FOLLOWING IS FOR FRIENDS:
NOVEMBER 27, 1934
We propose to ask Godber to proceed direct to Shanghai
where he is due 17th on the understanding that he will
there meet and confer with Walden and Parker before de-
parture, all three proceeding afterwards to Japan as joint
representatives common industry SToP By that time diplo-
matic situation should have developed and we anticipate
the way will be clear for three representatives to discuss
position on purely commercial basis SToP As there appears
to be probability of refining in Japan it may be desirable
in order to proteot position of the market would friends
be willing to consider joint refining scheme with us?

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
Y:EJL
November 28th, 1934.
ASDEBATIC, LONDON.
Referring to the telegram you propose sending Japan
contained your message November 27th we will send message
today with qualification as stated by you in respect to
Form 4 except we suggest substitution word desire for
able in that part of your message which will then read
QUOTE Or what extent they desire to continue business
etoetera UNQUOTE and will instruct our representative dis-
ouss with yours joint or concurrent representations with
Japanese Government STOP We are in full accord joint
diplomatic representations by Governments named should
take place prior to discussions between our and your repre-
sentatives and Japanese Government SToP To this end we
urge prompt communication by Foreign Office to Washington
as we understand latter will sympathetically consider any
suggestion result of which may tend to ameliorate the
onerous restrictions in Control Law FULLSTOP Regarding
question of joint refinery operation we desire to defer
consideration until after Walden Parker have had an oppor-
tunity of thoroughly investigating the situation in Japan
FULISTOP Regarding Manchuria Oil Company Crude quotation
in order to maintain present policy we are opposed to
tendering and Texas Company concurs Therefore please con-
firm you will issue instruotions your representative not
to bid.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.96)
26 BROADWAY
H. DUNDAS
New York
November 28, 1934.
Japan ituation
r. . c. Teagle,
Standard Oil Co. (New Jersey),
30 Rockefeller Plaza,
New York City.
8
Dear r. Teagle:
In order to keep you u -to-date res ectin messages
that have passed in connection with the situation in
Japan, enclosed herewith is transcript of message from
(N
London, November 27th, and copy of our reply to them.
Mr. Coe had an interview with Dr. Hornbeck un? 'r. ackay
in Washington yesterday an the tate epartnent were ad-
vised of, and have made no adverse cornents on the mes-
sage we are sending.
T
Attached also you will find incomin message from
Japan rogarding invitations to quote on crude oil for
Manohukuo, and our comments to London thereon.
Yours very truly,
H. DUNDAS
HD/ED
Enc.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.97)
:EJL
T
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
From YOKOHAMA
TO NEW YORK
Dáte NOV 27/34
Nippon O1l Co. (on) behalf (of) Manchuria Oil Company-s
have request-ed us throuh itsui So. Ltd. Tokyo for fob
vuotation-s. . Currenc y Lece ber 4th on second
purohase (of) crude oil about 16, 00) tons loading-s middle
of January (from) any source includin; Hethe land India
STOP Nippon Oil Co. state on this occasion bid-s will be
confined to ourselves friends and he rexas co. who have
roceived similar incuiry Tor peclric tion-s to e the
same (as) mentioned in our telegran of  st 22nd but 1f
unable to meet we are requested (to) quote crude with PI
gravity as near to 35 degrees as pcssible  Top It seems
apparent that limiting this incuiry entirely to above
companies is to be consistent (with) policy us announced
(by) Manohuria government and at the same time (to) learn
definite-ly whether above company-s can be counted upon as
crude supplier-s or will continue opposition (to) monopoly
and in the latter case other major company-s may again be
approached SToP From what we have learned factor-s mentioned
in our telegram August 29th obtain now in ever greater degree
therefore friends and ourselves after consultation (with)
Embassy-s

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
Embassy-s feel we should inform Nippon Oil Co. we are unable
to quote at present STop To enable us to disouss with Parker
December lst please telegraph us your views and those of The
Toxas Co. as soon as possible ToP Friends are making similar
recommendation-s to London STOP e are advisin hanghai

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEPHONE MESSAGE FROM H. WILKINSON
NOVEMBER 27, 1954
We propose to telegraph as follows to Yokohama but we
will not do so until you confirm that it will meet friend's
viow MESSAGE BEGINS: We agree to complete Form 4 return
provisionally with covering letter to the effeot that the
form is submitted subject to alterations and conditionally
upon docision of our principals as to whether or to what
extent they are able to continue business in Japan under
the conditions imposed by Petroleun Industry Law STOP For
your private information we are still in hopes joint diplo-
matic representation by Dutch Government, U.S. Government,
British Government on the general question of according
fair treatment to the foreign oil companies who have been
ostablished in Japan for so many years and we are of the
opinion that detailed disoussions between Japanese Govern-
ment representatives and representatives of foreign oil
companies should not take place prior to this joint diplo-
matio approach STop In the meantime can you clarify to any
extent your report on interview for instance when it was
stated that foreign companies could obtain long term say 10
year guarantee for present trade in all products. Does
this mean present peroentage of the trade or does it mean
foroign companies are to be disoriminated against to accord
Japanese companies all inorease in consumption SToP Are we
to understand refineries completely owned by foreign capital
would

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
would mot be diseriminated against in any wmy STOP Again
what are indications underlying statements that if the
burden of stook bolding was too heavy foreign companies
Japanese Government would have to reconsider question hav-
ing regard to the possible alternative source of supply
STOP We emphasize that while we are willing to complete
form 4 return provisionally it should be done only with
safeguard already referred to and without committing our-
selves in any way to stock regulations ESSAG: ENDS.

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.96)
一 3 -
NOVEMBER 27. 1934
FOLLOWING IS FOR FRIENDS:
We propose to ask Godber to proceed direct to Shanghai
where he 1s due 17th on the understanding that he will
there meet and confer with Walden and Parker before de-
parture, all three proceeding afterwards to Japan as joint
representatives common industry STop By that time diplo-
matio situation should have developed and we anticipate
the way will be clear for three re resentatives to discuss
position on purely comnercial basis SToP As there appears
to be probability of refinin in Japan it may be desirable
in order to proteot position of the market would friends
be willing to consider joint refining scheme with us?

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.98)
November 28th. 1934.
ASDEBATIC, LONDON.
Referring to the telegram you propose sending Japan
contained your message November 27th we will send message
today with ualifiontion ns stated by you in respect to
Forn 4 exoept we suggest substitution word desire for
able in that part of your message which will then road
UoT Or what extent the. desire to continue business
etcetera UN UoT and will instruct our representative dis-
ouss with yours joint or concurrent representations with
Japanese Government STor e are in full accora joint
diplomatic represontations by Governments named should
take place prior to discussions between our und your repre-
sentatives and Japanese Government SToP To this end we
urge prompt communication by Foreim Office to ashin ton
as we understand latter will sympathetioally consider any
suggestion result of which may tend to ameliorate the
onerous restriotions in Control Law FULLSTor Regarding
question of joint refinery operation we desire to defer
consideration until after alden rurker have had an oppor-
tunity of thoroughly investiguting the situation in Japan
FULLsTOP Rogardiny Manohuria Oil Compan, Crude quotation
in order to maintain present polioy we are opposed to
tondering and Texas Conpuny conours Therefore please con-
firm you will issue instructions your representative not
to bid.

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.92)
26 BROADWAY
New York
H. DUNDAS
Novomber 28, 1934.
Japan ituation
r. . C. Teagle,
tandard oil Co. (New Jersey),
8
30 Rookefeller Plaza,
New York City.
6
7
Dour r. Teagle:
In order to kee you u -to-date res ectin: messages
Cu
that have passed in conneotion with the situation in
Japan, enclosed herewith is transcript of measage from
Cu
London, November 27th, and copy of our reply to them.
r. Coe had an interview with Dr. Hornbeck and r. ackay
in ashington yesterday and the tate Department were ad-
C.U
vised of, and have mnde no adverse corments on the mes-
sage we are senäin .
ttache  lso yon will find inoomin mossage from
Japan regardin invitations to cuote on crude oil for
Manohukuo, and our conments to London thereon.
Yours very truly,
. DUNDA
HD/TD
Eno.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.96)
T
INCOMING CABLEGRA!
FrOm YOKOHAMA
To NEW YORK
Date NOV 27/34
Nippon Oil Co. (on) bohalf (of) anohuria O1l Copany-s
have request-ed us through lits o. Ltd. Toltye tor fob
uotation-s   Currenc y ece er itn on secona
purchase (or) crude o1l about 1,00 tons loading-s niddle
of Janwry (fron) any source includin: Netherland India
STOP Nippon Oil co. state on this occasion bid-s will be
confined to oursolves frienas an he Texas co. wio h ve
received similar in u'ry Tor  pecific tion- t e the
same (as) mentioned in our talegru of ut t an? but if
unable to meet we are requoste (to) uote crude wit: I
gravity as near to 35 degrees us possible  'O It seens
apparent that limiting this in uiry entirely to above
companies is to be consistent (with) policy as announoed
(by) Manohuria government and at the same time (to) learn
definite-ly whether above company-s can be counted upon as
orude supplier-s or will continue opposition (to) monopoly
and in the lattar oase other major company-s may again be
approached STor From what we heve learned faotor-s mentioned
in our telegram August 29th obtain now in ever greater degree
therefore friends and ourselves after consultation (with)
Fmbassy-s

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
Embassy-s feel we should inform Nippon Oil Co. we are unable
to quote at present STop To enable us to disouss with Parker
December lst please telegraph us your views and those of The
Toxas Co. as soon as possible ToP Friends are akin similar
recormondation-s to London Tol e are dvisin hanhai

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEPHONE MESSAGE FROM H. WILKINSON
NOVEMBER 27. 1934
We propose to telegraph as follows to Yokohama but we
will not do so until you confirm that it will meet friend's
viows MESSAG BEGINS: e agree to couplete Forn 4 return
provisionally with covering lotter to the effect that the
form is submitted subjeot to alterutions and conditionally
upon dooision of our principals as to whether or to what
extont they are able to continuo business in Jpn under
the conditions imposed by letroleul Industry Law ToP For
your private information we arc still in hopes joint diplo-
matio representation by Jutoh Govermment, U.S. Governnent,
British Govornment on the general uestion of cocording
fair treatmont to the foreim oil companies who have been
stablished in Japan for so muny years and we are of the
opinion that detailed discussions between Japanese Govern-
mont representatives and representatives of foreign oil
companies should not take place prior to this joint diplo-
matio approach STop In the meantime can you clarify to any
extent ycur report on interview for instanoe when it was
stated that foreign companies could obtain long term say 10
year guarantee for present trade in all products. Does
this mean present porcentage of the trade or does it mean
foreign companios are to be discriminated against to accord
Japanese companies all inorease in consuaption STop Are we
to understand refineries completely owned by fereign capital
would

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.93)
- 2 -
would not be diseriminated against in any wmy STOP Again
what are indieations underlying statements that if the
burden of stoek holding was too heavy foreign companies
Japanese Government would have to reoonsider uestion hav-
ing regard to the possible altarnative source of supply
STop We mphasize that while we are willing to complete
form 4 return provisionally it should be done only with
safeguard already referred to and without comittin our-
selves in any way to stock regulations
T0T.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
FOLLOWING IS FOR FRIENDS:
NOVEMBER 27, 1934
We propose to ask Godber to proceed direct to Shanghai
where he is due 17th on the understanding that he will
there meet and confer with alden and Parker before de-
parture, all three proceedin afterwards to Japan as joint
representatives common industry STop By that timo diplo-
matio situation should have developed and we antioipate
the way will be clear for th. ee re resentatives to disouss
position on purely commeroial busis STOr as there appears
to be probability of refining in Japan it may be desirable
in order to proteot position of the market would friends
be willing to consider joint refining schone with us?

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.98)
November 28th, 1934.
ASDEBATIC, LONDON.
Referring to the telegram you propose sending Japan
contained your message November 27th we will send message
today with qualification as stated by you in respect to
Form 4 exoopt we suggest substitution word desire for
able in that part of your message which will then read
¿UOT Or what extent they desire to continue business
etoetera UN UOTF and will instruct our representative dis-
ouss with yours joint or concurrent representations with
Japanese Government STOP We are in full accord joint
diplomatio representations by Governments named should
take place prior to discussions between our and your repre-
sentatives and Japanese Government SToP To this end we
urge prompt communication by Foreign Office to ashington
as we understand latter will sympathetically consider any
suggestion result of which may tend to ameliorate the
onerous restrictions in Control Law FULLSTOP Regarding
question of joint refinery operation we desire to defer
consideration until after walden Parker have had an oppor-
tunity of thoroughly investigating the situation in Japan
FULLSTOP Rogarding Manchuria Oil Company Crude quotation
in order to maintain present policy we are opposed to
tendering and Texas Company concurs Therefore please con-
firm you will issue instructions your representative not
to b1d.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.96)
6.46
December 8 1984
FIESTIAL - STAVI UBE CILY
The Eamereble
894.6363/143
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
sir:
with reference to previous correspondence in regard
to the oil situations in Japan and in Manohuria, there are
enelosed, for your confidential information, copies, as
listed below, of memoranda of conversations in regard to
the above-mentioned subjects.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary or State:
R Walton Moore
Enclosures:
Memorandum of conversation of
November 17 between Mr. Hornbeck
and Mr. Wiggin;
Memorandum of conversation of
November 19 between Mr. Hornbeck
and Mr. Wiggin;
Memorandum of conversation of
November 23 between Mr. Hornbeck
and Mr. Coe;
Memorandum of conversation of
November 26 between Mr. Mackay
and Mr. Coe;
1140
Memorandum of conversation of
November 27 between Mr. Mackay4
and Mr. Coe.
DEC 6 1964
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
12/3/34

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.96)
RC
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
This tologram must
LONDON
bo closclyuparaphrased
FROM
beforo boing oommunicatod
Dated Docomber 7,1934
to anyono.(B)
Telegeam
Socrctary of Stato,
lndm
Washington.
1146
614, Decombor 7, 1934,7 p.m.
Dooman and Millard aalled today on Ordo, and on
894.6363/144
his assistant, Randall, and read to him your 422 Doccmber
5, 11a.m./137
In regard to paragraph 4 of your tologram, Randall
stated that:
One. The British oil interests had requested that
the British Govornment givo diplomatic support to the
representations of the local managers of the affected
British companic and that thc Foreign Office had
directed Clive to make after consultation with Grew,
furthor informal representations
Two. The representatives o the British oil intests
who havo recently procceded to the Far East and who are
7
now in Shanghai, will procoed further to Japan to confer
with appropriate Japanese officials only in the event
SILED
that the Japanese response to the representations of
Clive and of the local managor is sufficiently favor-
ablo to warrant their going to Japan.
F/G
Orde

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- No.81 from London.
Orde said that the British oil interests had ex-
pressed some time ago a desire that the American and
British Governments make a joint and formal protest.
Ho thought however that those interests are satisfied
to follow the course adopted(as outlinod in the preccd-
ing paragraph)for the timo being. He addod that/so far
as tho Notherlands Governmont is concerned, that Govern-
ment would be prepared to follow the lead of the British
Government
It is hoped that the forogoing will answer the
quostion put and the assumption expressed in paragraph
four of your telogram.
In rogard to tho last sentonce in paragraph one of
your telegram: Orde cxpressed the thoughtthat for the
X
timc being it might be advantageous for the Amorican
and British Govornments to maintain contact through their
respective represontatives at Tokyo.
Orde and Randall were obviously disappointed that
Amorican Government was unablc to give assurance of
effoctive cooperation among American petroleum interests
being achieved.
BINGHAM
HPD

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.97)
STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ED
.1934
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FE
Conversation.
December 3, 1934.
The British Ambassador,
zil
The Honorable Sir Ronald Lindsay.
Mr. Hornbeck.
894.6363
894.6363/145
Subject:
Japanese Petroleum Law and
"Manchukuo" Petroleum Monopoly,
and Related Developments and
1007
Problems.
I encountered the British Ambassador at a lunoheon
today at the Chinese Legation. The Ambassador made some
casual remark about the petroleum situation in the Far
East. I took advantage of the opportunity to say that
I would like very much at some time to talk to him about
that situation. He said that he would like to talk with
me about it and that he would take occasion when calling
at the Department within the next few days to drop in on
F/FG.
me. The Ambassador then remarked that Mr. Wiggin had
come to see me with the inquiry which the British Foreign
Ofrice had sent. I ventured the slight correction that
Mr. Wiggin had called me about the matter on the teiephone
and that I had afterwards asked him to call and or the
latter occasion had given him a complete aocount of th
2
2
situation as far as we had knowledge of it. The Ambassado
then said that the Embassy had been mystified by the Foreig
Office inquiry; he did not want us to think that the Foreign
Office

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Office had been utterly "off side" about the matter: he
had asoertained that their inquiry had been prompted by
their having noticed in the press that the Japanese
Ambassador had come out of a conversation with the Seore-
tary of State and had told the press correspondents here
that "Japan might ultimately become the mediator between
the British and American oil interests in connection with
the situation in 'Manchukuo'". Ne laughed in concert over
this, and I asked the Ambassador why, if that was what was
in their minds, they did not say so. The Ambassador said
that the same question had occurred to him. I asked whether
the Ambassador had ever heard the story of the little girl
who was scratching herself; someone asked her, "Why do you
scratch yourself?" She replied, "Because no one else
knows where I itch." The Ambassador said that this was
right to the point. I said it seemed to me that, on any
occasion when the British Foreign Office is prompted by
seeing news of such a character to inquire of us with
regard to the situation, they ought to feel free to tell us
just(to what the inquiry related. The Ambassador said that
he shared that view.
At that point we were called into lunoheon.
m.m.H.
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.92)
Comvereatien.
Deeember 3, 1934.
The Britiek Ambesseder.
The Homorable Sir Ronald Lindsay.
ur. Rormbeek.
b oet:Jere
I ensountered the British abasaador at a lumeheom
8
today at the hinese Legation. lhe Ambassador made mome
easual remark about the petroleun aituetion in the Far
636
East. I took advantare or tho opportunity to say that
I would like rery muoh at wome time to talk to him about
that situatlon. io said that he would like to talk with
me about it and that hs mould take ooeuaion when oalling
at the epartment within the next few days to drop in on
me. he Ambaasador then remarked thet r. 1in had
oomo to soe me wit tho inqulry which the ritish Foroltn
Ofrloe had sont. I ventured the ali ht correotion that
Mr. figgin had oalled me about the matter on the tolephome
and that 1 had aftergards aeked bim to oall und on the
latter oooasion hod given him a caaplete aocount of the
situation as far as we had kmouledge of it. ho unbassador
then said that the mbessy had boen mystiried by the roreign
offioe inquiry; ho did not want us to thinx thet the Foreigs
orri.e

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.91)
● 8 ●
ofriee had been usterly "arr aide" about the matter: be
bed aseertained that their inquiry had beon prompted by
their havime notleed in the press that the Japanese
Ambassedor bad come out o a convereation with the ere-
tary of state and hud told tho press oorrespondents here
that "Japan might ultimately beoome the modiator between
the British und merioan oil interests in conneotion with
tho situation in 'Kanohukuo'". ie laughed in coneert over
this, and I aaked the .mbassador why, if that was what was
1n their minds, they did not say so. he Ambessador said
that the same question had ooourred to him. I asked whether
the Aabassedor had ever hoard the story of the little irl
who was soratohin: horself; sonoone asked her, "thy do you
soratoh yourselr?" ;he replied, "lecause no one else
knows where I itoh." 'ho beust or said that this was
right to the point. 1 said it seomed to no thst, on any
occasion when the ritish Porsign  frioe 1s prompted by
sooing nevs of suoh a ohuraut or to inquire or us sith
rogerd to tho situation, thoy ou ht to fee! froe to tail us
to just what the inguiry relet d. he mbassedor naid that
ho shared that view.
t tont point we vere called into lunohoon.
P5:3K1220.
23

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.98)
DCR
to indey
November 9, 1934.
894.6363
Dear Mr. Seoretary:
The memorandum which I have of the suggestion
communioated to me this morning by Mrs. Hull on your
894.6363/145
behalr, by telephone, reads as follows:
"The Government might say to Japan that
the only alternative left is to advise the
American oil people that, having made most
earnest representations and remonstrances of
their treatment to the Japanese Government,
wholly without avail, the United States
Goverment can now only warn and caution all
American oil people to stay out of Japan and
Manchuria."
with rogard to this suggestion, we feel that, al-
though the idea may stand us in good stead at some later
2
date, the situation at this moment is suoh as to warrant
and call for a temporary standstill, in an attitude of
"watchful waiting" on our part. hile attending the
National Foreign Irade Jonvention last week, Mr. Hornbeck
had conversations with Mr. Teagle and other officers of
the interested American oil companies; and this week we
have
The Honorable
Cordell Hull.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
have exshanged with them a number of communieatiens;
yestertay Mr. Hernbeek had a telephone cenversetion
with the President of the Standard Vaewm Company. The
matter, as regards the situation at present, is substan-
sially this: we have had as yet no approaeh from the
British Gevermment with regard to the matter; we are in-
fermed that the representatives of our oil interests and
those of the Dutoh Shell are still in conference at
London! the companies have deoided to send representatives
to Japan with a view to trying to work out with the Japa-
nese ofricials at least a modus vivendi; these represente-
tives will arrive in Japan before the middle of December;
they will expeet their Governments to extend good ofrices
toward making possible contaot by them with Japanese offi-
eials who oan speak authoritatively and who will give
consideration to the features of the case to whioh they
will wish to call attention. le have made it olear to
Mr. Teagle and others oonoerned that they must not expeot
aotion on the part of this Goverrment suggestive of or
1nvolving threats toward Japan in oonneotion with this
matter; that so far as proposed joint aotion is oonoerned
we will oontinue to await the taking of an initiative by
the British Government; and that we feel that any plans
which might oall for or involve use of pressure should
be

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.96)
●3•
be develeped and be agreed upon between and ameng the
oil interests themselves and in comeestien with the
commereiel weapens whieh are 1n their hands befere there
should be eensidered seriously any suggestion or prepesal
by them that the Governments concerned turn to and employ
mothods of pressure.
While what precedes in this letter was under dieta-
tiem, this noon, Mr. Teagle called Mr. Horabeek by tele-
phone from New York, said that Mr. Parker was leaving
tomorrow, bound toward Japan; said that Mr. Parker was
with him at the moment; and inquired whether there were
any new developments, anything new from London, or any-
thing which Mr. Hornbeck might wish to suggest before
Mr. Parker leaves. Mr. Hornbeok said that there was
nothing now, nothing from London; that he had made it a
point throughout the conversations whioh have been held
to refrain from attompting to give advioe; but that he
would offer the suggestion that the American oil companies
be on guard against beooming too heavily or too deeply
(as to investment or time period) committed 1n relation
to delivery of oil; also, that they keep an eye on the
negotiations whioh are still in prosess between the
Netherland Government and the Japanese Government with
regard to Dutoh ast Indian trade. Mr. Teagle said that
he

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.98)
he appresisted having these suggestions. Re said that
he would be in Washington on the morning of November 14
and would call on Mr. Hornbeek on that morning and he
would hope to have more news from London to give us at
that time.
So we feel that over the week-end at least there
is no ast1on that we need at this moment think of taking.
Sinoerely yours,
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE
HF
11/9/34

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.99)
The Government might say to Japan that the only
alternative left is to advise the American oil people
that, having made most earnest representations and
remonstrances of their treatment to the Japanese Govern-
ment, wholly without avail, the United States Govern-
ment can now only warn and caution all American oil
people to stay out of Japan and Manchuria.

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.91)
hom.9
FE
(Rco)
I firmly agree to our fixed policy of insisting
that the British take the lead in the Japanese oil
u7
discussion.
Our sugestion was a milder formula
than the tovernment boycott recommended to their
respective governments in Grew's cable No. 245, 238
25
of November 3.
In other words if the British
should first speak to us about the problem present-
ed by the oil company, we might deem it desirable
to offer some views or sugestions in lieu of the
government boycott proposed, but equally effective.
Nou.
12134
Senew -
H.F

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.95)
B
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
fore beingremmunicated
FROM
to anyone (B & S.G.)
Tokyo
Dated December 8, 1934
Rec1d 3:27 a.m.
DC1C194
Zelogr
Secretary of State,
Washington.
yele
A
894.6363/146
271, December , 9 a.m.
ne
CONFIDENTIA..
My British colleague has received a telegram from
London dated December 5 to the effect that the British
Foreign Office has discussed the general oil situation
with a representative of the State Department now in
London who has concurred in the following views.
(a) The petroleum monopoly in Manchuria und the
Jananese petroleum industry law are interrelated aspects
of the same problem and should be handled as such; and
(b) if a restriction of the export of oil is eventually
decided upon, the step should be taken by the oil
companies on a commercial basis leaving the respective
governments so far as possible in the background.
Clive is instructed to make renewed representations
to the Foreign Office concerning the effect on our com-
N
panies of the Japanese petroleum industry law but only
LED
after learning that I will take similar action. He has
prepared

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
MP
2-#271 From Tokyo, Dec. 8, 9 a.m.
prepared a provisional aide memoire which he has shown
to me in confidence and which he proposes to hand in-
formally (repeat informally) to the Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs after hearing affirmatively from me.
Following is a summary of the British provisional
aide memoire. It is couched in courteous phraseology.
(one) British Governnent nas carefully studied
memorandum of Octcuer 31 exrlaining substance of law and
policy of its administration.
(two) Grateful for explanation and pleased that
Japanese authorities do not wish to deprive persons en-
gaged in this indusury of security for their business.
Explanation however has not removed anxiety lest wide
powers which the law confers might be so exercised as
in effect to constitute discrimination against interests
of British oil companies.
(three) While Japanese memorandum states that the
insistence upon annual submission of plans of operation
does not connote desire to hamper continuance (underline)
of business nevertheless such insistence would appear to
deprive British oil interests of all security as to scale
(end underline) of future operations. British interests
unable to count on sharing increase of trade while in the
event

=== Page 367 === (confidence 1.00)
MP
3-#271 From Tokyo, Dec. 8, 9 a me
event of a contraction of demand Japanese companies might
maintain their position while British quotas could be
reduced.
(four) Lack of British refineries in Japan and
uncertainty whether they would upon application be per-
mitted to refine upon a scale commensurate with their
present business seem to place British oil interests at a
disadvantage with Japanese companies. Japanese memorandum
states that esta lishment of refineries would be facili
tated for companies whose capital was predominantly
Japanese, but even this pernission may be withheld
in special circumstances, and in any case under such
financial arrangements British oil interests would for-
feit financial control of their company in Japan, a step
which they find themselves unable to contemplate.
(five) Sansom of British Embassy after consultation
with Dickover here inserts following observation which I
quote in full:
(SPECIAL GRAY) "(Foreign Office instructions are
to include an objection to those provisions of law which
provide for
(a) Purchase of petroleum from companies by
Government
(b) Interference by Government in selling price
of

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
MP
4-#271 From Tokyo, Dec. 8, 9 a.m.
of oil. I feel that we are on unsafe ground here. Any
government can properly comnandeer supplies in emergency,
at current prices, and there does not seem to me to be
any sinister implication in the use or the words military
affairs! as well as 'urgent necessity in public interest!.
Similarly as to price fix ng, it is not a discriminating
provision, as I read it.
I should say that cur only just ground of o jection
here is that, by their cumulative effect, such provisions
add to the uncertainty of the coma mies, - making it
difficult to decide future plans. I therefore suggest a
modification as follows: )
'While His Majesty's Government fully comprehend
the desire of Japanese Government to administer the
petroleum industry law for the protection of the public
welfare and for the maintenance of the interests of
industry as a whole, they feel that the provisions of
Article 7 of the law, together with Articles 7, 8 and
9 of the Imperial Ordinance for its enforcement give such
scope for official intervention which cannot be foreseen
as to make it difficult, if not impossible, for the
British oil interests to frame plans for their under-
takings with that degree of certainty as to future income
and

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
MP
5-#271 From Tokyo, Dec. 8, 9 a.m.
and expenditure which ordinary commercial practice entails.:"
(END SPECIAL GRAY)
(six) Japanese memorandum makes no reference to
the stock holding provisions of the law, which from the
standpoint of British oil interests are probably its most
onerous. As they stand they seem to empower the holding
of unlimited stocks. Prosent requirements are for 6
months stock but Minister of Commerce before Diet suggested
they might be extended to 12 months stock. British oil
interests have repeatedly informed British Government
that faced with doubt as to future sales, they are also
uncertain as to prioe for stock holding and possibility
of reimbursement for such expenditure, and consequently
are unable to decide whether from a commercial viewpoint
they are justified in further investment in Japan.
(seven) British Government feel that on basis of
information furnished by Japanese Government anxieties
of British oil interests are justifiable and that further
explanations given by officials of Departments of Commerce
and Foreign Affairs to representative of British oil
interests on November 20 were insufficient to remove those
anxieties. End of British aide memoire.
Please instruct.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.94)
RECD
TELEGRAM SENT
NONCONFIDENTIAL
rState
Washingion,
December 8, 1934.
5T
AMEMBASSY,
TOKYO (Japan)
Your/e71, December 8, 9 a.m.
894.6363/146
In the light of Anformation from London Bmbassy
regarding)conversations held in British Foreign Office,/
the Department /does not/repeat\not /understandissuance
to 'clfve (of this) instruction at this stagel Department!
will/expect tol inform(and, instruct you early/ next week)
Meanwhile, take no action except/to inform clive/of the
foregoing.
Huee
SCH
146
894.6363
FE:SKH/ DLY
M..
19.

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
(ke)
TELEGRAM SENT
ARING OPFICE
TO BE TRANGMITTED
IGATE WHETHER
OONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
Department
PLAN
OR
Charge to
Washington.
Inis adre was sent in conridential Coda
December 10, 1934.
8pm
TOKYO (Japan).
Your )271,/December 8, 9 a.m.
201
894.6363/146
One. Dooman is at London'assisting Davis. Department
had given/ no repeat no instructions to any member of the)
naval/ delegation/with regard to/ any/phase of thel petroleum/
problems! /On November/27 Dooman telegraphed informally/
from London tha: heland an/officer of/ th. Embassy called/
upon invitation, at the British Foreign Office land there'
discussed Anformally\the oil\situations/in Japan /and in
Manchuria, Dooman'stating at the outset that he/had no
repeat no authority to speak bfficially./ Foreign office
representative/stated that the sritish Government would
regard !with favor) concerted action' by tha British/and
American oil/concerns/on the followin: conditions:/ (a)
any measure/that may be/agreed upon/should be/watertight,
or atlany rate effective; (b) no formal action/shall be
required of the British Government;) and (c) 'the situations
in Japan and in Manchuriu are to be dealt with/as two parts
of the same problem)(in other words, any measure Ito be
taken shall be applied to both areus ori not at alll.
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
.19
Index Bu
1-138

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
Washinglon,
-8-
Pereign Orfice/ representative seemed doubtrul) of the, wisdom
of making in the present ciroumstances/a further/ orricial/
demarche at Tokyo.  He said that the British Government and,
oil interests (had not repeat not /conolusively decided that/
any measure/or the foregoing/character should be applied as
soon as /agroement/theroon/could be reached, but that\they)
believed that it/ would be advantageous /to givel theloil
interests)freedom (to take/action.) He thought that/ir any /
effective/private/measure pould be apvised/by the oil
interests/or the/three pountries), a real and (orrective(
basis would be)laid for further( ofricial/representations./
Doemans felogram poes not repeat/not /indicate/that he
QUOTE poncurred in)UNQUOTE anything.
two. Under datel December 5 the Department (replied to)
the Lendon Embassy suggesting that! Dooman and an orficer of 
the Embassy see the Foreign Office orficial and give him!
orally statement in regard to ouy general(positionp
pointing out/that it is our hope that(the Americanl and
British\ Governments(may belable as far as possible to
preeeed pn/parallel( lines/and (present a(cem mon(front) that
peroeive(no (repeat no (difference) in the) attitudeland
jeive or the twoGovements that representatives

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM SENT
epartment of State
Washingion,
- 3 -
the several petroleum'interests'have been in conference
in London'where consultation'between them and British
Government and between British and Netherland Governments
has been and is possible at close range; thad Department
has been hoping for and expeoting suggestions from British
Government with regard to possible course of action; that
Department still feels that it would be advantageous for
British Foreign Office to be coordinator and central
clearing point in this matter; that the Department concurs
in the thought of the British Government favoring concerted
action by British'and American petroleum interests; that
the Department has consistently expressed this view to the
ROVM
American interests concerned, suggesting to them cooperation alio
among all Amerioan petroleum interests; that we do not repeat not
believe that short of such cooperation, or of action along
lines such as are referred to in paragraph three of your
telogram No. 238 of Ootober 29, 6 p.m., in the direction of
which action we do not repeat not for the present feel
moved to'proceed, effeotive measures of control could be
attained;/ that in view or/our understanding that representa-
tives or the'petroloum interests, having proceeded to'the
Far East, desire that their governments pave the way for

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM SENT
Bepartment of State
Washington,
@iseussion/by them with/ appropriate ofricials of the /
nowr
Japanese Government, might it be (understood that (the
various lohiefs(of(mission (would be pnstruoted by) their
respective governments /to take/appropriate action(toward)
that end) that we assume? that (the British Government/
reewrs
thought that /no/repeat/no(new/demarche should be made/to
the Japanese Government(until/representatives of/the/
companies had thus had (opportunity/to confer /with the
Japanese/ofricials; that we/felt(there should be )frank/and
full exchange of/views in relation to/all phases of the
matter/ and/steps/ envisaghd or/contemplated,(ot cetera, and
thaty there should be/realized joonstantly (that there is 1
involved/a plearfout community of/interest/whioh warrants/
concerted action/ toward)safeguarding/actual/logitimate(
investments)and future commeroial opportunities) that wel
were kratified that the British Government appeared(to
share this feeling; and that wo/felt /that all) of the above/
should be told/orally(to British(Foreign Office)
Thrse, American Embassy(London(reports that/on December/7)
reurs
arter(reading to(orricials of(Foreign orrice pepartment's
telegram pumarized above,/ Foreign orrice offioial(stated
mat(British oil interests had requested thad British

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
Washingion,
Gevermment give diplomatic' support to representations of
the local managem or the affeoted British companies; that
Foreign Office had directed Clive to make, after consulta-
tion with you, further informal representations; that
representatives of British oil interests will proceed to
Japan for conference with Japanese officials only if
Japanese response to representations of Clive and local
manager is surficiently favorable to warrant such action;
that so far as the Netherland Government is concerned,
that Government would be prepared to follow the lead of
the British Government; that, with regard to the Depart-
ment's suggestion that Foreign Office act as olearing
house, it might be advantageous for American and British
Governments to maintain contact through their respective
representatives in Tokyo.
Foer. Before coming to a'conolusion in regard to the British
project outlined in your telegram 271 of December 8,
Department intends to make kmown to British Foreign Office
making 'at this stage a'demarche
our doubt as to the wisdom or pmmmmtimg along/the line of
Fereign orrice's instruction td clive: our opinion that,
with the exeeption or an informal and oral paving or the
y, me repeat no further official demarche should be made

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department ot State
Washington,
msil senier representatives of the various oil ccompanied
shall have had an opportunity to confer with officials of
the Japanese Goverament; and that, with a view to/
facilitating and erpediting the exchange of views
between and among the British, Netherland and American
Governments and of safeguarding confidential communication,
the Department continues of the opinion that in this
matter the British Foreign Office is the logical place
for central olearing point.
Five. Department will, as soon as practicable,
communicate with you further. In the meantime, if you
are not repeat not in agreement with the Department's
views, as indicated above, please submit your recommenda-
tions by telegram. If you feel that British plan should
be followed, please submit for Department's consideration
the text or a summary of such aide memoire as you would
wish to present to the Japanese Government.
PeeePS
894.6563/146
Gly
newr
m.m.N.
FE:ROM:EJL

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM SENT
ariment of State
Washington,
It should be careiully paraphrased pefere
8pm
LONDON (England).
Your 614, December 7, 7 p.m., and previous.
428
Ome.Department had been given to understand from petroleum
894.6363/146
interests that the British and American companies in
sending representatives to the Far East desired of their
Governments offioial assistance in making contacts with
Japanese officials, whereupon said representatives would
present'their own case. Items in your 603, November 27,
7 p.m., tend to confirm that impression, especially your
statement that Ordd seemed doubtful of the wisdom of making
in the present ciroumstances a further official demarche
at Tokye. Department, however, has received from Tokyo a
11,46
telegram dated December 8 reporting that Clive had received
frem Lenden a telegram dated December 5 QUoTE to the effeet
that the British Foreign Office has discussed the general
eil'situatien with a representative of the State Department
new in Lendon who has concurred in UNQUOTk certain views
pecified; that Clive is instruoted to renew representations
te the Foreign office in case Grew will take similar actien;
that aliyed has prepared a lengthy provisienal aide
50.4

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
Bepartment of State
Washington,
- 2 -
moire the coatents or which ho/has made known to Grew/in
confidenceland which/Grew reports /to Department/ Examina-
tion of /this/makes it /olear that British Government
onvisages/another/demarche in advance of/special efforts/
by the representatives of /petroleum/interests)
From all /or the above/it would seem plear that/ there/
has not /repeat/not yet beenarrived at/a clear,/common
understanding pr what is )envisaged or(intended./ Depart-
ment /therefore/desires that(as promptly as possible)there/
be pommunicated orally(and\informally to /Foreign office/
the substance of/ the foregoing and that in so doing/you /
point out/that, in the absence of/explanatory gomment/in
regard to the reasons for/making what/would appear to be/
a material/ change in/stratogy, the Department doubts(the
wisdom or/proceeding/along the lines indicated in the!
Foreign orfice's(instruction to/clive! as/reported to/ us;
that on basis of/such/information/as is/now available/the
Department/is of/the opinion/that, with the exception of/
an/oral/and/informal/paving/or the/way,/perhaps/by means
of p (Joint/oall at/the Japanese Foreign office/ by the)
menior officers in Tokyo of the British, Netherland and
506

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
Bepartment of State
Washinglon,
- 5 -
siven to) the seriousnesd with which the/conoerned
governmenta/view the/situation under disoussion no /repeat/
no rurther/demarohe/should be made /until the/ spocial)
representatives of the/prinoipally interested oil' companies/
now in the Far East) shall have/ had an opportunity,/thus!
introduced, to/confer with/officials of the) Japanese
Government; and that, with a view to/facilitating and1
expediting the exohange of/views /between /and among the
British, Netherland/and American Governmenta and of)
safeguarding confidential communication, the Department
continues/or the/opinion/ that in/this matter/the British/
Foroign Officel is, for (reasons) already given! they logical/
place)for contral) clearing (point)
Two. We have informed Grew/of our intention to /
communicate through\you/with British Foreign Office/and
have /instruoted/him to await instructions/
Three. Toward clarifying bur/ understanding of the
position and/proposal of/the British Foreign Office,/
Department/ would/appreciate/being/informed/why the/
Fereign orrice favorsa furtho demarohe/ such asclive/
hem undery preparation) at this time!
Four. In order that there may be nd repeat no rew

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.90)
TELEGRAM SENT
epartment of State
Washington,
fer/any suspicion )that wo/ are) mixing/naval/ conference/
matters/and other/businesd, Dooman should no repeat/ no /
longer/appear/in this matter exoept/within the/Embassy.
Fivel. Department /feels that) Embassy's/ 614/does not/
repeat(not (oonvey to (Department/a clear) impression/or
the conversation to which it/related./ Please endeavor
tof get, olear statements or/ Foreign Orfice/views and give/
pecial attention (to)reporting/adequately and) as) soon as
possible/on thel conversation above) directed.
Phule fs
A05
894.6363/144
m.m.H.
Rar
PE:ROM:EJL

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363/
Dep.#1050
894.00 P.R./83
FOR
SEE
Nov.12,1934.
Japan
Grew
-) DATED
FROM
1-1127
1791111
NAME
147
REGARDING:
Japanese Petroleum Industry Law: Developments
in this situatiom during the past month.
fpg

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.95)
(1) Janan Ptr Ldry L
The Japanese Department of Commeree and Industry re-
fused to grant the request of the foreign oil sompenies
operating in Jepan, that th: time for filing import and
sterage plans be postponed, and the forcim oil companies
refused to comply with the domand of that Lepartwent that
sueh plans be submitted without delay. At the elose of the
momth it appeared that the siturtion of t  forelm oil com
pamies in Japan was approaching a crizis, particulsrly in
viow of their failure to comply with the provision of the
Potreleum Industry Law thot six montrs' stoeks of oil be
stored and in view of the wnbending attitude of the Japanese
Government.* The Petroleum Committer estabiished by the
Petrelewm Industry Lew is seheduled to meet early in November
t consider varlous phases of th oi! in ustry, which will
include th attitude of the foreigm companies.
On Oetober 31 the Japanese Foreign of ice transmitted
to the Embassy an informal memorandum in reply to the repre-
sentations made un er the autnority of the Depertment's tele-
grem No. lof of Sept mber l, the suost nee of hieh was ro-
ported to the Department in the Embassy's telogram No. 41
of November l. The memoranaum of the Ministryfor Foreigm
Affairs eontained no mention of the six months' stock holding
requirements. Gimiler memerands ws e sent to the British
,Embassy and th& Duten Legation in Toxyo.

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363
SEE
893.6363 Manchur1a/93
FOR .Te1. #262, 6pm.
/148
FROM
Japen
(...Grew
.) DATED ..Nov...27,..1934.
TO
NAME
1-1137
Japanese Petroleum Control Law and the Oil Monopoly in Manchuria
REGARDING:
Suggests formal and firmly worded recapitulation of the various
points already advanced. The outcome of the issue is exceeding-
ly important, not only intrinsically but also as a matter of
broad policy and of American prestige.
FRG.

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
REP
This telegram must be
olosely paraphrased be-
TOKYO
fore being communicated
to anyone. (B)
Dated ovember 27, 1934
Rec'd 2:15 p. m.
8
Secretary of State,
Washington.
262, November 27, 6 . m.
9
894.
Department's 193, Novaiber 23, 7 p. m. Query C.
C
7
One. The Embassy has kept all of the Dopartment's
w
instructions ccncerning the i? monopoly in Manchuria
and the Japanese Petrolerm  ntrei law constantly in
mind, clearly understands tio Denertment's views and
policy ad has endeavorod to reflect the Department's
attitudo when appropriate occasion has arisen.
Twc. In the same way the Embassy feels that it
need not repeat the various factors and considerations
3
already brought to the attention of the Department in
previcus telegrams and despatches.
Three. In the light or all circumstances now
knoum to the Embassy I believo that a further American
domarche similar to that rado by Clive on November 24
is esirable for the following reasons:
(a)- failure to continue our representations in
step with the British would pre ably convey both to the
Japanese and the British the impression that we are
weakening

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
2-#262, From Tokyo, Nov. 27, 6 pom.
weakening in the face of Japan's determined attitude..
(b)- renewed representations would give concrete
evidence at loast of our own willingness to maintain a
united front while awaiting further initiative by the
British ard Dutch Governments.
(c)- hitherto our representations have been
informal and our conmunications (July 7 and August 31)
were marked "informal memorandum", . Since these informal
representations have apparently yielded no concrete
results it would be a logical step now to follow thhem
up with formal representations either by a signed note
or by an aide memoire or memorandum conveyed by a
cuverin; note as was done by the British on August 21
and iovember 24. In each case the British communications
have antedated ours.
(d) a formal and fimaly worded rocapitulation of
the various points already advanced, with the possible
addition ef a clause similar to the concluding clause
of the last British aide memoire (see paragraph six of
my 260, November 23, 11 p. m.) and of any further
arguments which suggest themselves to the Department,
would tond to mobilize and enphasize our whole case.
Four.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
REP
3-#262, From Tokyo, Nov. 27, 6 p. m.
Four. It is impossible to predict the practical
effect, if any, on the Japanese of such a third
demarche. Clive seemed to think that Hirota was
deeply impressed by his representations on November
24 and especially by his oral allusion to Japanese
good faith.
Five. The fact should nevertheless be borne in
mind that repeated diplc:atic representations un-
supported by current or eve..  al practical measures
tend to lower Aner: can prestige in the eyes of the
Japanese. They believe that American protests on
almost any issue can safely be disregarded. The nature
of the replies already made to our representations in
the Manchuria oil monopoly indicates no (repeat no)
inclination on the part of the Japanese to give serious
consideretion to our views and legitimate rights and
int:erests.
Six. The outcome of tlc present issue is exceed-
ingly important not only intrinsically but as a matter
of broad principle and of American prestige and as
influencing the whole future trend of our commercial
interests in the Far East.
Seven.

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
REP
4-#262, From Tokyo, Nov. 27,6p.m.
Seven.
While it is true that the British-Dutch
distribution of refined oil products in Japan is greater
than the American, I am reliably informed that in
Manchuria the American sales of refined products are
a proximately double those of the British-Dutch
interests (Standard Vacuum 3.; per cent, Texas 20 per
cent, Shell 25 per cent, others 20 per cent).
Hight. Oil is the weakest point in the Japanese
defensive and economic strueture. I am informed by
our Naval Attache that there exists a powerful
undere rrent of fear anong the Japanese that their
s pplies of oil might bc intorfered with as an
crentual result of the present oil legislation in
Japan and Manchuria.
Hine. The considerations set forth above should
be read in the light of the Department's telegran
124, October 31, 7 p. m., and should not be interpreted
as taking issue in any way witi the views and policy
set forth in that and other instructions from the
Department which from the outset of this issue have
been clear and consistent.
GREW
HPD

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM REOEIVED
REP
11000
FROM
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
LONDON
fore boing communicated
to anyone. (B)
Dated December 11, 1934
yil
Rec'd 4:30 p. m.
Seligram
Sscretary of State
FAR EASN A
3Lndon
lec. 14, 'a
Washington.
DEC 12 1934
Department of State
RUSH
894.6363
894.6363/149
620, December 11, 6 p. m.
One. During the conversat on on December 7th with
Dooman and Millard, both Orde and Randall suggested that
therc was possibility of misundorstanding arising over
"paving the way". They stated t at the British oil
interests recently asked for fu.ther immediate diplomatic
support of the representations of their local representa-
tives in Japan; that British oil interests here had
propared a brief, setting fort! heir position vis a vis,
t'c Ja anese; that this brief without alteration in
substanec, had been sent by th ereign Office in London
F/FG
to Clive, who had been directec after consultation vith
Grew to present it informally to the Japanese Government.
(Presumably this is the aide memoire referred to in your
FILEL
telegram under reference). Ordc stated that the British
eil interests have not (repeat not) asked the British
3
Government

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.99)
REP
2- #620, From London, Dec.11,6p.m.
Government to assist their special (repeat speoial)
representatives now in Shanghai to make contact at the
present time with Japanese officials. It was the
understanding of the Foreign Office that the British
oil interests do not contemplate sending the special
representative now in Shanghal to Japan "unless the
conversations in Tokyo produce a situation which would
make it worth while".
Two. During the conversations on November 27 and
on December 7 the term "demarche" was understood among
all present as applicable only to action beyond what had
already been taken of a formal and official character,
reference being made in that connection to a desire
expressed several weeks ago by the British oil interests
that the British and American Governments make a joint,
written, and formal protest to the Japanese Government.
Orde and Randall made it clear that they construe the
action which Clive has been directed to take as further
informal representations.
Three. It would appear from the first sentence of
the Department's telegram under reference, and the
Foreign Office statements reported above, that the British
and

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
REP
3-#620, From London, Dec.11,6p.m.
and Arerican oil interestsaare not in entire agreement
in r gard to the course to be followed in the immediate
future. In short, the American interests apparently
desire that their special representatives shall be
assisted forthwith by Grew to make contact with the
Japanese, whereas the British oil interests apparently
intond that their special reprcsentatives shall remain
in Shanghai until there shall have been further,
presumably favorable, developments in Tokyo.
Four. As the Department ay wish to reviow the
situation in the light of foregoing additional information,
no new approach will be made to the Foreign Office await-
ing confirmation of your last instructions. Paragraphs
one and two above have been read to Orde, who confirmed
th-ir accuracy.
BINGHAM
KLP
HPD

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM SENT
Depariment of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washingten,
054 DEC 14 PM 5 53
December 14, 1934.
8pm
DIVISION OF
AN L..ROS
431
1149
Your'620, December 11, 6 p.m., and previous.
clearly'outlined difriculties'under which Department'was
working due to inadequate information'regarding'the
894.6363/149
views or British'oil interests and Foreign'Orrice and'
action'by the'latter and'indicated'the action'which
would'in the'opinion or'the Department, at this stage,
best'serve' the common objective'.' Departmont feels that
Babassy should, with a viow to elarifying the situation,
premptly have approached the Foreign Offico in accordance
with the instructions expressly given in Departmont's
telegram under referencer
No matter what term'might most accurately/describe
the 'action proposed'in the'Foreign Orrice's'instruction
of December'firth'to'clive' such action, ir taken, would
constitute'a further orricial approach'to the Japanese
Government or'equal'ir not greater'import than'approaches
previously'made?" Therefore, bearing in mind that strong
representations'recently were made'to the Japanese
Govermment'by the British and by'the' American' Embassies

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
Washingion,
- 2 -
Tekyo/in rogard to the oi) situation in Manohuria)
that previous (representations(in regard to the oil/
situation/in Japan whioh were/similar to those/
envisaged/on December/ fifth by the British Government,
have broughtfrorth no(repeaty no satisfactory results/
that officials of the Japanese Government/have/intimated
that future/governmental representations should include/
more/conorete/evidence, (and presumably statistical/data,
in regard to the leconomio /burden which the Petroleumy Law /
would/place/upon/foreign |oil interestsg which/evidence/
the pil interests,/if so inclined, /could pest/supply/
and that, /in the hope of arriving at a/satisfactory
solution pr their /problems,/ special (representatives of/
the principally/ interested oil companies(are now 'in the(
Far East& the Departmont (is, as previously outlined to
you,/of the (opinion )that action(by the (governments or
the ooncerned oil interesta might (best, for the present,
be (oonfined to \that/suggested in the second/paragraph of/
subdivision numbered (one of the(Department's telegram 
48 /or(December/10.) Such (procedure /would(give(ample(
opportunity for/oral/emphasis(to the) Japanese (Foreign
office or the seriousness(with phich) the/concerned/
M..

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL COSE
Department of State
NONOONFIDENTIAL CODE
PLAIN
Washington,
sovernments view the situation under disoussion and also
for pointing out/specific factors in the situation to
which it/is/believed/particular attention/should be/
drawn. In the event that the special representatives of
the oil interests/should/find it/impossible, in the
course of/their/direct/conferences/with appropriate
satisfactory/solution or/the problem, the British,
American/and /Netherland/Governmenta could then, ir
deemed advisable//and without having/previously dissipated
their efforts,/make to the Japanese Government further/
representations/in/character/either/informal or formal
as the then situation might/seem to/warrant./
Two. Department has just/received from Grew telegram
1150
QUOTE I therefore feel that/it would be advisable
for us to go/over the/ground again/ in an/informal con-
versation as/envisaged in/... Department's telegram/No.
201 (see second paragraph of/subdiyision/numbered/one of
Departmont's telogram(to you(No./248/0r/December 10)/to
be held(preferably/between the/Counselor or the/Embassy
and the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs/or a bureau/
clifo
305

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM SENT
Bepartment of State
Washington,
cmier. ror the purposes of clarity our points could be
ombodied, if the Department approves, on an informal
sheet or' paper which could be left with the Japanese
offioial with the understanding that our representations
were oral and not formal.
The British Embassy is recommending to its Foreign
Offioe that the British representations be altered to
the same basis as those suggested above. UNQUOTE
Grew's telegram inoludes a summary of the points
which should, in his astimation, be brought forward in
the conversation as indicated above. No repeat no
mention is made in such summary of the special repre-
sentatives of the oil interests who are now in the Far East.
Although Department still feels that the better
course to pursue would be one along the lines indicated
in its telegram 428, it would,' if the'Foreign ofrice is
not repeat not similarly minded, be prepared to instruot
Tokyo'to aot in accordance with Grew's suggestion, as
briefly 'outlined above, provided his British colleague
takes similar action.
Three. Department desires that you consult Foreign
Office representative promptly; that you read to him all
M.
19.

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM SENT
Brpartment at State
Washington,
the foregoing except the first paragraph and all of
the Department's telegram 428 of December 10 except
paragraphs four and five; and that you state in addition
that the Department is confident that there is no funda-
mental difference of opinion between the British and
Amorican Governments in regard to this matter; that the
Amorioan oil interests have indicated to the Department
their desire that whatever is done on the part of the
companies and on'the part of the governments be done by
parallel courses and with common front; that the Depart-
mont is of the same view;'that had the Foreign Office
indicated to us in advance of its instruction to Clive
of December fifth just what it had in mind, the points
involved could probably have been straightened out easily
and promptly between us and it, thus avoiding the present
confusion and delay; and that this confusion and delay
strengthen'our opinion'that London'rather than Tokyo
should be the olearing point in regard to these matters.
Four. You are authorized and instruoted to ask,
as to the course'to be followed' in their and our instrue-
siems respectively to Tokyo and to report by telegram
exmet/terms/to Department for/confirmation'or comment.
Hull

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.94)
H
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
This telegram must be
FROM
Tokyo
carefully paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
Dated December 13, 1934
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 8:20 a m.
yde
Secretary of State,
Washington.
tohy.
4
274, December 13, 2 p.
DEC 2 0 199
894.6363/150
他
894.6363
One. In recent conversations between Kurusu of
the Japanese Foreign Office an: Moville of this Embassy
and Sansom of the British Enbassy, held at Kurusu's
request, he advanced proposal that, as the Japanese
petroleum law was oppressive for all oil conpanies,
Japanese as well as foreign, the foreign oil companies
should corbine with the Japanese cil companies in a
strong joint protest to the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry in an endeavor to obtain some modification of
the law. He intimated that the Japanese authorities
are beginning to realize the difficulties entailed by
the law and are weakening in their attitude and he men-
F/FG.
tioned the dissatisfaction of Japanese oil men with the
law.
1/6
Two. Department's 201, December 10, 8 p.m. In the
opinion of the British Empassy here the representations
FILE
which it proposes to make would not constitute an offi-
cial demarche but rather an informal paving of the way
for

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.98)
FS
2-No. 274, December 13, from Tokyo
for the possible future discussions between the represen-
tatives of the foreign oil companies and the Japanese
authoritics, in that the proposed representations would
point out that the Japanese Government's reply of Octo-
ber 31 was insufficient to remove the anxieties felt by
the British oil interests, especially as the reply did
not refer to the question of stock holding.
Three. I feel that failure to inforri the Japanese
Government in some way that its reply tc our original
representations was unsatisfactory would be misleading
and might be misinterpreted. Asceptance without comment
of the Japanese reply would place the cil companies in a
less favorable positi on in their future negotiations with
the Japanese authorities because it could create the im-
pression that their governments were not continuing to
support them.
It appears as is indicated in paragraph one above,
the Japanese authorities are believed to be showing signs
of weakening. Further representations at the moment
therefore might be effective in preparing the way for
any compromise plan which the representatives of the for-
eign oil companies may evolve from their present discus-
sions at Shanghai.
Five.

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
3-No. 274, December 13, from Tokyo
Five. It seems important both to Clive and myself
that our informal representations should be so formu-
lated as to avoid on the one hand creating an impression
that we are now going to let our companies work out their
own problem without further diplomatic support, and
equally to avoid on the other hand placing the Japanese
Government in a position which would make it more diffi-
cult for the authorities to recede and compromise with-
out serious loss of face.
Six. I therefore feel that it would be advisable
for us to go over the ground again in an informal con-
versation as envisaged in paragraph four of the Depart-
ment's telegram No. 0l, to be hald preferably between
the Counsellor of the Embassy and the Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs or a bureau chief For the purposes of
clarity our points could be embodied,if the Department
approves, on an informal sheet of paper which could be
left with the Japanese official with the understanding
that our representations were oral and not formal.
Seven. The British Embassy is recommending to its
Foreign Office that the British representations be altered
to the same basis as those suggested above.
Eight. The following are the lines suggested for
the

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
4-No. 274, December 13, from Tokyo
the informal and oral representations:
(a) After expressing appreciation of the explana-
tions made in the Japanese memorandum of October 31,
state that these explanations, as well as those which
it is understood were made orally by the Vice Minister
of Commerce and Industry on November 20, have not been
sufficient to dispel the anxieties felt by the American
o1l interosts.
(b) While noting the assurances given by the
Japanese Government that there is no intention, in the
granting of annual quotas, of ignoring the interests of
those engaged in the oil industry in Japan or of impair-
ing the continuous character of the industry, the American
Government still feels constrai ned to point out that the
wide powers conferred by the law in the granting of
quotas are such as to render it impossible for American
oil interests to gauge with any degree of certainty the
scale of their future business in Japan.
(c) It ap pears from the Japanese memorandum that
even if American oil interests are granted permission to
manufacture refined products in Japan, they wi ll not be
permittod to share in the natural growth of the industry
but will be restricted at best to the refining of an
amount

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
5-No. 274, December 13, from Tokyo
.amount not exceeding their present import quotas, while
any increase in the demand will be allocated to the
Japanese refiners. The American Government expresses
the hope that the Japarese Government will see its way
clear to permit those interests to continue their busi-
ness on equal terms with the Japanese oil interests.
(d) The American Government notes that the Japanese
memorandum does not refer to the stock holding require-
ments of the petroleum industry law, which are considered
by the American cil interosts to be the most burdensome
provisions of the law. Because of the elastic nature of
these provisions, added to the uncertainty of future
sales and the lack of any assurance of compensation for
the increased investment entailed by the stock holding
provisions, the American oil interests are unable to
decide whether it is commercially feasible to invest
further funds in their business in Japan.
(e) The American Government therefore hopes that
the Japanese Government will again consider the problems
confronting the American oil interests in Japan and will
endeavor to remove the causes of their anxieties.
WSB:CSB
GREW

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.89)
160
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OPFIOE
1--120
TO BE TRANBMITTED
WILL INDIOATE WHETHER
OONFIDENTIAL OODE
Collect
Departgent of State
NONOONFIDENTIAL OODE
Charge Department
PLAIN
OR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington.
This c wssem cdntial Code.
benerm
8pm
AMEMBASSY,
DIV.SIUN O
COMMUNCATICNS
TOKYO (JAPAANU ALU.IJS
204
Your 274, December 13, 2 p.m.
Department, after giving careful consideration to
farther
Dep will as soon as practicable communicate with
you furthor.
Huee
894.6363/150
V)
894.6363/150
FE:ROL:EJL
TE
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
.10
indH1

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.98)
X
FS
This telegram must be
Tokyo
carefully paraphrased be-
fore boing communicated
Dated December 13, 1934
to anyone. (B)
Roc'd 8:20 a.m.
Sccretary of State,
Washington.
274, December 13, 2 p•.
One. In recent conversations between Kurusu of
the Japanese Foreign Office and Weville of this Embassy
894.6363/150
and Sanson of the Britich Enbassy, old at Kurusu's
request, he advanend prorcsal that, as the Japanese
petroleum law was oppressive Cor all oil conpanies,
Japanese as well as foroign, the foreign oil companies
should co bine with the Japanose oil companies in a
strong joint protest to the Ministry of Comnerce and
Industiy in an endeavor to obtain some modification of
the law. ie intimated that the Japanese authorities
are beginning to realizo the difficulties entailed by
t'o law and are woeakning in t eir attitude and he men-
tioned ic dissatisfaction of apanese oil men with tho
law.
Two. Department's 201, December 10, 8 p.m. In tho
opinion of the British Emtassy hero the represontations
wiich it proposes to na're world not ccnstituto an ofi-
cial de archo but rather an informal paving of the way
for

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
2-No. 274, December 13, from Tokyo
for the possible future discussions between the represe-
tatives of the foreign oil companies and the Japanese
authorities, in that the proposed representations would
point out that the Japanese Government's reply of Octo-
ber 31 was insufficient to remove the anxieties felt by
the British oil interests, especially as the reply did
not refer to the qiestion of stock holding.
Three. I feel that failure to inforr the Japanese
Government in some way that its reply t our original
representations was unsatisfucto y would re misleading
and might be misinterpreted. Asceptonce without comment
of the Japanese reply would place the cil companies in a
less favorable position in their future negotiations with
the Japanese authorities because it could create the in-
pression that their governments were not continuing to
support them.
It appears as is indicated in naragraph one above,
to Japanose authorities are l lieved to be showing sig:s
of weakening. Further representations at the moment
therefore might be effective in preparing the way for
any compromise plan which the representatives of the for-
cign oil companies may evolve from their present discus-
sions at Shanghai.
Five.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
3-No. 274, December 13, from Tokyo
Five. It seems important both to Clive and myself
that our informal representations should be so formu-
lated as to avoid on the one hand creating an impression
that we are now going to let our companies work out their
own problem without further diplomatic support, and
oqually to avoid on the other hand placing the Japanese
Government in a position which would make it more diffi-
cult for the authorities to recede and compromise with-
out serious loss of face.
Six. I therofore feel that it would be advisable
for us to go over the ground again in an informal con-
versation as envisaged in paragraph four of the Depart-
ment's telegram No. 201, to be hold preferably between
the Counsellor of the Embassy and the Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs or a bureau chief. For the purposes of
clarity our points could be emboied, if the Department
approves, on an infermal sheet of paper which could be
left with the Japanese official with the understanding
that our representations were cral and not formal.
Seven. The British Embassy is recormending to its
Foreign Office that the British representations be altered
to the same basis as tiose suggested above.
Ei ht. The following are the lines suggested for
the

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.98)
FS
4-No. 274, December 13, from Tokyo
the inf ormal and oral renresentations:
(a) After expressing appreciation of the explana-
tions made in the Japanese memoranlum of October 31,
state that these explanations, as well as those which
it is understood were made orally by the Vice Minister
of Comnerce and Industry on Novembor 20, have not been
sufficiont to dispel the an ieties felt by the American
oil intorosts.
(b) While notieg the ussurances viven by the
Japanese Government that theo is no intention, in the
granting of annual quctas, of ignoring the intorests of
those engaged in the oil industry in Japan or of impair-
ing the continucus charactor f the industry, the Amer can
Gevernment still feels constrained to point out thnt the
wide powers conferred by the law in the granting of
quotas aro such as to render it impossible for American
oil inte sts to gauge vith any degreo of cortainty the
scale of their fituro business in Janan.
(c) It ap pears fron the Jupanese memorandum that
even i
American oil intorests are granted permissi n to
manufacture refined products in Japan, thoy wi 11 not be
permitted to share in the natural growth cf the industry
but will be restricted at best to the refining of an
armount

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.98)
F8
5-No. 274, December 13, from Tokyo
amount not exceeding their present import quotas, while
any increase in the denand will be allocated to the
Japanese refiners. The American Government expresses
the hope that the Japanese Government will see its way
olear to permit those interests to continue their busi-
ness on equal terms with the Japanese oil interests.
(d) The American Government notes that the Japanese
memorandum does not refer to the stock holding require-
ments of the petroleun industry lar, hich are considered
by the American cil interests to be the most burdensome
provisions of the law. Because of the elastic nature of
these provisions, added to the uncertainty of future
sales and the lack of any assurance of compensation for
the increased investment entailed by the stock holdin~
provisions, the American oil interests are unable to
decide whether it is commercially feasible to invest
further funds in their business in Japan.
(e) The American Government therefore hopes that
the Japanese Government will again consider the problems
confronting the American oil interests in Japan and will
endeavor to remove the causes of their anxieties.
WSB:CSB
GREW

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.94)
F
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
London, December 4, 1934.
No. 1086
SUBJECTA
Japanese and Manchurian Oil Monopolies.
2
S
yl
lus
894.6363/151
new
594.6363
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
.I have the honor to refer to the Department's telegraphic
137
instruction No. 419 November 30, 5 p.m., concerning the pro-
posed oil monopoly in Manchuria and the oil situation in Japan.
Pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 of that telegram, the sub-
JAN
stance of those paragraphs has been conveyed orally to the
FILED
Foreign Office.
Respeotfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Ray at heutor
Ray Atherton,
+
Counselor of Embassy.
EM/MVB

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.90)
DUPLICATE
London, veceuber 4, lu.
1086
No.
SUBJLCT: Japanese and nohurian v1l onopo i.
The ionorabl
The eoretury of
tatt:,
resningto.
1r:
I nave the nonor to refer to the epartment' teleprephic
inatruotion No. 41, ovem ., concer the pro-
posed oil monopoly in unchuria and the oil situation in Japan.
rursuant to paragraphs & and 3 of tuat tolegram, the sub-
etance of thoae paragrupha han been conveyeu orully to the
roreign uffice.
Hespeotrully yours,
ror tle Ambusmador:
itay Atherton,
Counselor or kmbassy.
TRUE
HM/WVB
OF THE SIGN

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.87)
TRIPLICATE
L nuon, weoeaber 4, l..
No. 1
SUbJnCT: Japaneso and nchurian vil onopo it.
The Honornble
The ecretury or tutr,
usninto
1r:
I have the monor to r fer t) the e. artment's teit prephio
inatruction o. le vem, cocrnir the ro
posee oil aonopoly in oncnurio ano the oli situatton in Jupan.
urauant to paregraplie a ane  of tt teiegra, the sub-
stance of those phrapruphe hea been conveyec orally to the
roreign ufrice.
Respeotrully jours,
ror tne abusudor:
Hay ntherton.
Counselor of mbassy.
HM/MVB
A TRUE COPY
OF THE SIGND

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.87)
QUADRUPLICATE
Lnuon, weoeaber 4, ls..
NO.
SUBJcT: Japanse and nclhurian vil onopo it.
The nonorablt
Theecretury or tate
usnin to..
ir:
1 wave tae moor to refer t the e rtrent's teleprephie
inatruetil,concri thero
posee il sono oly in encnorte an the ii situation in Japan.
ureuant to paragruplin  allo   tuet toiegraa, the sub-
stance of tnose para ruphn hen been conveyea orlly to the
roreifn frice.
Penpectrully yours.
teabuaador:
itay Atherton,
Counselor or mbassy.
HM/μVB
A TRUE COPY
OF
SIGNED

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.97)
26 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
December 14th, 1934.
Referring to Your
FE.894.6363/143.
ackid.
894.6363/152
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
yel
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
A
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
na
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
While it is highly probable that Mr. Goold has
handed the Ambassador at Tokyo, for transmission to the State
Department, a transcript of notes of a recent interview be-
tween Mr. Yoshino and Mr. Kurusu and Mr. Coold and Mr. Ely,
concerning the Petroleum Law in Japan, we are nevertheless
taking the precaution of sending you these notes in duplicate
for we believe that if you have not seen them they will be of
considerable interest.
We feel it is becoming increasingly evident that
your efforts on our behalf, coupled with the endeavors made by
our own representatives in Japan, are resulting in a more temper-
ate viewpoint by at least certain of the officials concerned. If
this attitude is reflected in the deliberations of the Petroleum
Committee, and alsc of course, what is of more importance, in the
eventual decisions handed down by the Minister of Industry and
Commerce, we may possibly hope for modifications in the applica-
tion of the Law and Regulations which may permit of our operations
within the Japanese Empire, being placed upon a more satisfactory
basis than at present.
However, we are not unmindful of the fact that this
issue is still of grave importance to us, and consequently, we
are particularly pleased to learn from your letter of Dec. llth,
that further efforts on our behalf are being undertaken by the
State Department.
Sincerely yours,
Kumyf. Gor
KFC:M
Kersey F. Coe.
Enos.
F/G

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.95)
1OKOHANA81/21/3
NOTES OF INTERVINW BETWEEN H. YOSHINO (VICE MINISTER OF COMNERCE
 INDUSTRY), MR. KURUSU (CHIEF F T PUREAU F COM ERCIAL AFFAIR
FORSION FICE) AND S RS. GOOLD AN LY. ON 2O NOVEMBER 19
Mr. Yoshino began by stating that there was no wish or
intention on the part of the overnment that the foreign companies
should be driven out of Japan as the result of the enforcement of
the 'etroleum Industry Law; on the oontrary it was desired that
they should remain, and he wished therefore to make the following
pointsi-
(1)
For the reasons which had been explained previously.
the overnment oonsidered it essential to sanotion 'lans of
Undertaking ennually; but 1t would be possible for the foreign
companies to obtain a long term guarantee, say for ten yeares, of
their present trade in all produots.
(During a private conversation after the interview
Mr. Kurusu expressed the opinion - whioh would have to be con-
firmed by the Legal Bureau - that such a suarantee could be givem
by the Minister or ommerce & Industry and made internationally
binding by means of ofrielal notifications through the Foreign
offiee to the Jovernments or the companies concerned: it would
have to be conditional in order to obviate difrioulties whieh
might be eaused by changes in the relative offtakes of differemt
produeto).

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.97)
(2)
The Jovernpent desired refining in Japan and therefore
in alloting trade quotas would give first preference to efimers.
By "refiners" he moant "efiners as a whole: there would be no
disorimination whatsoever against re: ining enterprises controlled
by foreign capital.
(3)
Applioations for new refineries would have to go before
the retroleum ommittee for approval, but here again there would
be no disorimination against foroign capital, and applioations
would be judged solely in the light of the domeatio demand and
supply situation. Firet preference would be given to importers
of refined produots who desired to oonvert their enterprises to
refining.
This statement of Mr. Yoshino's ave rise to a dis-
oussion of the question of balanoing produots, as it seemed to
Er. Joold that the Jovernment so far had viewed refining solely
from the standpoint of the gasoline demand.r. Yoshino admitted
that the aituation presented difrioulties and stated that they
would have to be met by one of the rolluwing alternatives:-
(a) Export (or distress produota), whioh would be desired
by Roriners but whioh, in his opinion, necessitated a duty refund;
this so far had beon rerused by the "inance  epartment, who had
already been approaohed by the opartmont of Commeree & Industry.
(b) an improvement in refining technique and practiee
whieh would inerease the proportion of gasoline extracted from
raw material.

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.97)
(o) Consideration of other produets, and not gaseline only
when giving pernits for refining.
In short, the roblom involved buth technical and
ooonomio considerationn and was one that would have to go before
the Petroleum comittee, whioh now is expected to have its first
meeting early in ocomber.
Hore Nr. Kurusu interpolated - in rerard to questiona
whioh have to bo considered by the cmmittee - that it seemed to
him that the foreign companies were "doing all the dirty work"
in conneotion with probloms common to all the companies. Mr.
Joold pointed out that, notwithstanding the truth or r. Kurusu'
remark, the forolen companies were constantly being blamed and
that his company had been the objoct of uttacks, whioh patently
were inspired, in the vernaculer oil press, especially in regard
to the ourrent rate of their gasoline sales. Both oompanies
pointed out that to keep within the quotas allotted to them by
the Jovernment ror July/secember they were being foroed to restriet
sales (whieh were being wade at full sohedule prices) and as a
consequenee were receiving strong protests from their dealer
organisatioms who hed signified their intention of complaining
to the inistry direct: and Ar. Coold pressed strongly for an
upward revision of the .v.0.C's quote whioh, he stated, was less
than 1t should be even on the prinoiple used by the  inistry and
represented a reduotion in their trade.

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.95)
4
After a long disoussion Mr. Yoshino stated that the
foreign compenies would have to eocopt and abide by the prinoiple
on whioh the linistry had based the July/ocomber quotas; also
that the quotas allotted could not be changed: he promised how-
ever to give sympathetie consideration to  r. coold's represent-
ations when fixing quotas for l935. To overcome t.e dirrioulties
which the foreign companies were finding in keeping within their
quotas and satisfying their dealer orgenisations, he advocated
closer co-operation penerally with the epanese companie and a
sales pool, in the forantion of which the  inistry was willing
to assist.
In tho course of this disoussion vsars. Goold and ly
drew attention to the aot thet the present level of aeoline
priees was definitely unremunerative.  r. Yoshino informed
them that the Japanese companies had recently petitioned the
Covernment's approval of an advanoe in price. The  inistry's
first conoern, when so approaohed, wae whether it was possible
for the oil companies to improve their position by economies
rather than by raising prioes - and in this connection also he
advocated the formation of a sales pool as a means of reducing
expenditure. lle confirmed that the Covernment did not contemplate
allowing any other payment or compensation for the cost of stock
holding (whioh the Jovernment had estimated at about 1 Sen per
A.G.) than eould be recovered in market prices and that the
advance proposed by the Japanese oompanies had inoluded am
allowanee for thet purpose.

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.93)
5
Mr. Yoshino then requested the foreign companies to
"eo-operate in the exinting system";  essre. coold and ly
expleined that the whole situation was in the hands uf their
Government and thoir lead uf ices: they vould be very gled
to pass on what they had boun told and asked if oasrs.Yosnino
and Kurusu had any further pointe to elucidate.
r. Kurusu asked if the auestion or souk uolding
was holding up a declsion and, on being toid t.at it was the
prineipal difricul ty, indicatod sonewhat e sphatically that the
Japenese lovernment was nt soiu to to influenced y represent-
ations from the ritish and. overnments into l tering it
Potrolowm Law or abolin ins te atock oldi s ohli catione.
Howover, aftar soue dlsuussion ith r. Yoshino, e went on to
say that in the opinion of t e Tapanese overnment no "oonoreto"
roprosentations concorning the tock olding provisions of the
Law had been received: but, if the roreign companies investigated
the cost and it should bo speoificaliy reprosented with supporting
figures - "from a commercial standpoint, no politios" - that
eeonomioally the burden was so great teat, rather than bear it,
they would have to withdraw from Japan, then all Jepartments of
the Japanese Jovernment would have to inventi ate and rooonsider
the questiom in the light of alternative souroes of supply.
(subeequently, in private conversation, Mr. Xurusu
expressed the personal opinion that if the foreign companies
withdrew, or even sut down their trade so that their present
sterage faeilities could meet the resultant reduced stock

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.96)
holding obligations, the Japanese companies would not be able to
bridge the sap and Jepan would be faced with n shortage of supply.
He inferred that so atrone an nttitude on the part ur the forei
companies wouln assist him and  r. Yosnino to influenoe other
Covernment Departmen ts whioh were insisting on upholding the
stook keeping provisionn of the Law; and added iucidontally
that the ritish and U.. mbessies would know how uost to
phrase representations).
In conolusion Yr. Yoshino brought up the mattor of the
foreign oompanies' 1noomplete lans of ndertaking for 1935.
Mossrs. oold and ly oxplained their poaition and stated that
thoir applications for postpone ant had been definitely refused
by the ining Bureau, which had threatened the iaposition of
penalties. After some discussion :r. Yoshino atated that if the
Returns wore made conditionally - the fulrilment of import
programmes to cover sales and stook keeping being made aubjeet
to the companies' deoinion as to whether or not it was eoonomie-
ally possible for them to carry on business in Japan under the
Petroloum Law - they would bo aooepted. It would have to be
understood however thet in those ciroumstanoes any quotas
allotted by the Jovernment to the foreign vompanies would also
be conditional. He pressed the companies to complete their
Returns in thet manner and on that understanding, so that the
Ministry oould proceed to the business of fixing quotas for l9ss.
TOBIAO
8

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.94)
MEMORANDOM!
MAETINO AT SHOKOSHO NOVEMAER BOD.1OZA
The following were presemt at the above sonferenee on
Mevember zoth to which we were summomed by Mr. Fukuda or the
Mining Dureau:
Mesers: Fukuda - Government Orricial
Horie-
Saka1 -
Morita - S.V.O.C.
Mr. Fukuda's remarks in substance were us foll
(A)
That in regard to the request in our letter
of November 15th for permission to postpone
thefiling of our complete sales plan for l9ss
as covered by rorm 4, the overnment definitely
would not purmit any postponement; furthermore
that no reply to our ietter would be made 1n
writing as the Government considered the verbai
replies being made by Mr. Fukuda were sufrieie
(B)
That the Government was very muoh ineonveniene
by the failure of the .v.0.C. to rile 1ts l9
Business ?lan in oomplete form and as it was 
wish of the Jomneroe  epertment to settle the
1935 Sales and Import uotas as soon as pomsib
we were requested to complete Form 4 immediatew
ly aleo thst faiiure to comply would remult in
our bein penalized.
(C)
Mr. Fukudu edmitted that the Comaeroe Minister
had authority under the ontrol Law to approve
any change in a business plan once filed with
the hokosho, but felt thit ir any ohange we
desired to make later was considered reasonable
by the Minister, it might be approved.
(D)
Mr. Fukude said that he was not familiar (exce)
through the newspapers) with the friendly talkm
going on between the merican and Jepanese Gove
ernments es referred to in our letter of Noveml
15th, and stated that he sonsidered suoh negoti
tions were an "entirely separate mutter" and
that he was interested solely 1n sesing that t
Petroleum Industrial control Lew was enforoed.
(5)
Mr. Fukuda stated thet after the ofrioials had
re-examimed the gasoline sales quotas for the
last halr of lost that the Governwent hed come
to the conelusiom that no upward revisiom comle
be made in the quota or 96,0o0 kilolitres al-
leeated to the S.v.0.C.

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.96)
(PaGe 8)
To the above we replied substantially as followss
That while we regretted that we were ineomvem-
ieneing the Government and in no way wished to
be dierespectrul or the Law or the Ofrieials
at the same time we had no authority to complete
the a pl1oution (form 4) covering our 1935
Businens Plan w ioh would obviously commit our
Company to a huge additionel expenditure and
that therefore we would again report the
Goternment's attitude to our prinoipals and to
the Amerioan mbasey. e added that we hoped
upon reconsideration the covernment would see
its way cleer to grent our request for post-
ponement and aleo again stressed that we con-
sidered our restrioted gasoline quota for the
last halr of l935 - whioh red ced ur business
in the fuce of an inorease in consuaption -
was unfeir  th to us and our selling agents
who were compleining.
We then left fo: an interview with r, Yoshino and
r. Kurusu, the notes concernin which should be read in conjunction
with the above.
Dated : November 21,
1954
L

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.96)
YOKOHAMA81/11/24
NOTES OF INTERVIEW BETWEEN MR. YOSHINO (VICE MINISTER OF COMERCE
 INDUSTRY). MR. KURUSU (CHIEF OF THE BUREAU OF COMP ERCIAL AFFAIRS.
FOREIGN UFFICE). AND MRS JRS. GOOLD AND ELY. ON 2Oth NOVEMBER 19S4.
Mr. Yoshino began by stating that there was no wish or
intention on the part of the Covernment that the foreign companies
should be driven out of Japan as the result of the enforcement of
the Petroloum Industry Law; on the contrary it was desired that
they should remain, and he wished therefore to make the following
pointa:-
(1)
For the reasons which had been explained previously,
the Government considered it essential to sanction 'lans of
Undertaking annually; but it would be possible for the foreign
companies to obtain a long term guarantee, say for ten years, of
their present trade in all produots.
(During a private conversation after the interview
Mr. Kurusu expressed the opinion - whioh would have to be con-
firmed by the Legal Bureau - that such a guarantee could be given
by the Minister of Commerce & Industry and made internationally
binding by means of ofricial notifioations through the Foreign
Offiee to the governments or the companies concerned; it would
have to be conditional in order to obviate diffioulties whieh
might be eaused by changes in the relative offtakes of different
produeto).

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.98)
(8)
The Government desired refining in Japan and therefore
in alloting trade quotes would give first preference to Refinere.
By "refiners" he meant "efiners as a whole: there would be no
diserimination whatsoever against refining enterprises controlled
by foreign capital.
(8)
Applioations for new refineries would have to go before
the Potroloum Committee for approval, but here again there would
be no disorimination against foreign capital, and applications
would be judged solely in the light of the domestio demand and
supply situation. First preference would be given to importers
of refined produots who desired to convert their enterprises to
refining.
This statement of Mr. Yoshino's gave rise to a dis-
cussion of the question of balanoing produots, as it seemed to
Mr. Goold that the Jovernment so far had viewed refining solely
from the standpoint of the gasoline demand. r. Yoshino admitted
that the situation presented diffioulties and stated that they
would have to be met by one or the following alternatives:-
(a) Export (or distress produots), whioh would be desired
by Roriners but whioh, in his opinion, necessitated a duty refund;
this so far had been refused by the "inance epartment, who had
already been approaohed by the Dopartment of Commerce & Industry.
(b) An improvement in refining technique and practiee
which would inerease the proportion of gasoline extrmcted from
raw material.

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.96)
一
(o) Consideration of other produots, and not gasoline only
when giving permits for refining.
In ahort, the problem involved buth technical and
conomio oonsiderations and was one that would have to go before
the Petroleum Comittee, whioh now is expected to heve its first
meeting early in December.
Here Mr. Kurusu interpolated - in re ard to questions
whioh have to be considered by the ommittee - that it seemed to
him that the foreign companies were "doing all the dirty work"
im connection with probloms common to all the companies. Mr.
Goold pointed out that, notwithstanding the truth of r. Kurusu's
romark, the foreign companies were constantly being blamed and
that his company had been the objoct of attacks, which patently
were inapired, in the vernacular oil press, especially in regard
to the ourrent rate of their gasoline sales. Both companies
pointed out that to keep within the quotas allotted to them by
the Government for July/December they were being forced to restriet
sales (whioh were being made at full schedule prices) and as a
consequence were receiving strong protests from their dealer
organisations who hed signified their intention of complaining
to the Ministry direot: and Mr. Joold pressed strongly for an
upward revision or the S.v.0.C's quota whioh, he stated, was loss
than 1t should be even on the prinoiple used by the Ministry and
represemted a reduotion in their trade.

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.98)
After a long disoussion Mr. Yoshino stated that the
foreign companies would have to aocept and abide by the prinoiple
on whioh the Ministry had based the July/iecember quotas; also
that the quotas allotted could not be changed: he promised how-
ever to give sympathetio consideration to  r. Goold's represent-
ations when rixing quotas for l935. To overoome the difficulties
whioh the foroign companies were finding in keeping within their
quotas and satisfying their dealer urganisations, he advocated
oloser co-operation generally with the apanese companies and 
sales pool, in the formation of which the  inistry was willing
to assist.
In the course of this disoussion essra. Joold and Ely
drew attention to the fact that the present level of gasoline
prices was definitely unremunerative. r. Yoshino informed
them that the Japanese companies had recently petitioned the
Covernment's approval of an advance in price. The Ministry's
first oonoern, when so approached, was whether it was possible
for the oil companies to improve their position by economies
rather than by raising prices - and in this conneotion also he
advocated the formation of a sales pool as a means of reducing
expenditure. le confirmed that the Oovernment did not contemplate
allowing any other payment or compensation for the cost of stook
holding (whioh the Government had estimated at about 1 Jen per
A.G.) than oould be recovered in market prices and that the
advance proposed by the Japanese oompanies had inoluded an
allowanee for thet purpose.

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.96)
8
Mr. Yoshino then requested the foreign companies to
"co-operate in the existing system"; Messrs. Goold and Ely
explained that the whole situation was in the hands of thoir
Jovernments and their lead uffices: they would be very glad
to pass on what they had beon told and asked if  essrs.Yoshino
and Kurusu had any furt:er points to elucidate.
Mr. Kurusu asked if the question of stock holding
was holding up a decision and, on being told that it was the
prinoipal difficulty, indicated sonewhat emphatically that the
Japanese govornment was not going to te influenced by represent-
ations from the Hritish and U.3. Governmenta into altering 1ts
Petroloum Law or abolishing the stook holdi z obli vations.
However, after some disoussion with  r. Yoshino, he went on to
say that in the opinion of the Japanese lovernment no "conoroto"
roprosentations concerning the stock olding provisions of the
Law had been received: but, if the foreign companies investigated
the cost and it should be specifically represented with supporting
figures - "from a comnercial standpoint, no politios" - that
eoonomically the burdon was so great that, rather than bear it,
they would have to withdraw from Japan, then all Jepartments of
the Japanese Government would have to investi gate and reconsider
the question in the light of alternative souroes of supply.
(Subsequently, in private conversation, Mr. Kurusu
expressed the personal opinion that if the foreign companies
withdrew, or even cut down their trade so that their present
sterage facilities could meet the resultant reduced stook

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.96)
holding obligations, the Japanese companies would not be able to
bridge the gap and Japan would be faced with e ahortage of supply.
Ho inforred that so strong en attitude on the purt of the foroi
companies would assist him and  r. Yoshino to influence other
Government Dopartuents whioh were insisting on upholding the
stook keeping provisions of the Iaw; and edded incidentally
thet the nritish and U.. abessies rould know how best to
phrase representations).
In conolusion Mr. Yoshino brought up te matter of tho
foreign companies' incomplete lans or ndertaking for l935.
Messrs. Coold and ly explained their position and stated that
their applications for postpone ent had been definitely refused
by the Yining Buroau, which had threatened the imposition of
ponalties. After some discussion  r. Yoshino stated that if the
Returns wore made conditionally - the fulfilment of import
programmes to cover sales and stock keeping being ade subjeet
to the companies' deoision as to whether or not it was economie-
ally possible for them to carry on business in Japan under the
Petroloum Law - they would be accepted. It would have to be
undorstood however that in these ciroumstances any quotas
allotted by the Jovernment to the foreign companies would also
be conditional. He pressed the companies to complete their
Returns in that manner and on that understanding, so that the
Ministry could proceed to the business of fixing quotas for l9s5.
TOBIAO
8

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.96)
MEMORANDUM :
MAETINO AT SHOKOSNO NOVEMDER BON LOZ4
BDRCOTROLTAL
The following were present at the above conferemee on
Mevember zoth to which we were summoned by Mr. Fukude or the
Miming Bureau:
Messrs: Fukuda - Covernment Orricial
Horie -
Saka1 -
n
Morita - S.V.O.C.
Mr. Fukuda's remarks in substance were as foll
(A)
That in regard to the request in our letter
of November 15th for permission to postpone
thefiling of our complete sales plan for 1935
as covered by Form 4, the Covernment definitely
would not permit any postponement; furthermore
that no reply to our letter would be made in
writing as the Government considered the verbal
replies being made by Mr. Fukuda were suffioier
(3)
That the Government was very muoh inoonvenienod
by the failure of the S.v.U.C. to file its l9s
Business Plan in complete form and as it was th
wish of the Commerce Department to settle the
1935 Sales and Import uotas as soon as ponsibl
we were requested to complete Form 4 imediate-
ly also that failure to comply would result in
our being penalized.
(C)
Mr. Fukuda admitted that the Commerce Minister
had authority under the Control Law to approve
any ohange in a business plan once filed with
the Shokosho, but felt that if any change we
desired to make later was considered reasonable
by the Minister, it might be approved.
(D)
Mr. Fukuda said that he was not familiar (excep
through the newspapers) with the friendly talks
going on between the American and Japanese Gov-
ernments as referred to in our letter of Novembe
15th, and stated that he considered suoh negoti
tions were an "entirely separate matter" and
that he was interested solely in seeing that the
Petroleum Industrial Control Law was eaforeed.
(B)
Mr. Fukuda stated thet after the offioials had
re-examined the gasoline sales quotes for the
last half of l9s4 that the Government had come
to the conclusion that no upward revision could
be made in the quota of 96,000 k1lolitres al-
leeated to the S.v.O.C.

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.98)
(Page 8)
To the above we replied substantially as follows:
That while we regretted that we were inconven-
tenoing the Government and in no way wished to
be disrespeotful of the Law or the Officials
at the same time we had no authorrty to complote
the a pl1cation (Form 4) covering our l935
Business Plan which would obviously commit our
Company to a huge additional expenditure and
that therefore we would again report the
Goternment's attitude to our principals and to
the Amerioan mbasey. e added that we hoped
upon reconsideration the Government would see
1ts way clear to grant our request for post-
ponement and also again stressed that we con-
sidered our restricted gasoline quota for the
last half of l935 - whioh reduced ur business
in the face of an inorease in consumption -
was unfair both to us and our selling agents
who were complaining.
We then left for en interview with Mr, Yoshino and
r. Kurusu, the notes conoerning which mhould be read in conjunotion
with the above.
Dated : November 21,
1934
L

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.77)
12/20/34
S
Cofice
actacted
Enchroure
slec
mn cre's litter
sn
14
sin shepr by
Emtarry
deepatch
it
n
Sw. 30
sous

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.95)
152
December 21 1984
Ia reply refer to
FE 804.6565/152
Dear Mr. Coe:
The reeeipt is asknowledged with thanks of your
letter of Dscember 14, 1934, and of the cop1es attached
894.6363/1
thereto of a transeript of notes of a conversation held
 Mevember 20 between eertain officials of the Japanese
Government and Mr. Goold and Mr. Ely, in regard to the
Japanese Petroleum Industry Law.
We mote with satisfaction your statement of opinion
5
2
that at least some of the officials of the Japanese
Government are now evidencing a more temperate viewpoint
in regard to the law under reference and we trust that
further efforts on the part of the various oil interests
and their respective governments may lead to such modifi-
cations of the law as may prove satisfactory to all concerned.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
DR
Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far astern affairs.
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
Standard-Vacuum Oil coa any,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.
res
FE
1/20/34
FE:RCM:EJL

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 17, 1934.
No adtin requiid
Despatch No. 1073 of November 30, 1934,
from Tokyo.
The Embassy reports developments of the
oil situation in Japan.
The Japanese Government has declared
that no postponement of the statement of
business plans for 1935 will be permitted;
that penalties will follow failure to make
a report; that later changes in plans might
be approved; that the sales quota of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company could not be changed
mad this year; and that the diplomatic con-
versations now going on over the operation
of the Petroleum Law were an "entirely
separate matter".
The oil companies have decided, after
conferences with the diplomatic representa-
tives, to submit provisional plans, and have
been authorized to do so by their head
offices. The plans have been submitted,
accompanied by letters disclaiming responsi-
bility, and have been accepted by the
authorities.
The Japanese companies are experiencing
difficulties with the stock-storing pro-
visions of the Law, and are petitioning for
an

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
an increase in gasoline prices. It is
believed that the attitude of the authorities
toward these provisions is weakening.
For an illuminating background picture
of the oil situation, the first enclosure
to the despatch coverinr an interview
between representatives of the Government
and the oil companies, is recommended.
W.T
WTT/DLY
894.6363/153

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Noveber 30, 1934.
yile
No. 1073.
Subject: American Oil Interests in Japan.
lofuxn FE( 281)
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.6363
UEC 17 1934
$
PM RECO
ÉC15
0
894.6363/153
Grod
11:1
For
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
ashington.
Sir:
/141
I have the honor to rofer to my despatch o. 1060
F/FG.
aated November 16, 194, and to previous written nd
telegraphic corresponaence concernin the difficulties
of the Amcrican and oth r foreign oil interests in Japan
under the new Petroleum Inaustry Law, and to submit the
following report of developments during the past two
weeks.
JAN
Conferences in Tokyo.
Mr. Fukuda, the Chief of the Mining Bureau of the
Department of Coamerce and Industry, on November 17, 1934,
summoned

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.96)
-2 -
summoned the local repr sentatives of the Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company and the Hising Sun Petroleum Company
to his office to receive the r ly of the Department of
Comnerce and Inaustry to their letters of November 15,
1934, in which they reguested n tension of time
in wiich to submit their inport und storare lans for
1935 (Enclosure o. : With y D sp tch No. 1060). The
representative of the Rising Sun Petroleun Company saw
Mr. Fukuda on Novenber 19, 1974, und the reur sent tive
of the Stand rd-Vacuum Oil Coupany   him on November
20, 19a4, both interviews being  ractically identical.
r. Fukuda's remerks ure suruarized us follows:
1. No further post overent of the time for
s bmission of the com lete businecs nluns for 1935 will
be nermitted.
2. The foreign oil cc p nies :re reguertec to file
their 1925 busine:s 1:ns i mmeui: t: ly, tnc failure to do
se will result in pentlizetion of th: coapunies.
3. Any chunges which the Forein oil companies
might wish to make l ter in their busine's pluns i ht be
tpprovea by the Minister For Com  ree and Incustry, if
considered reason:ble.
4. The convers: tions taking ol: ce betwsen the
Covernments concerned in regur to the operation of the
Petroleum Inoustry Law were an "entircly se  rate matter"
and the Ministry of Commerce ond Incustry was interested
only in seeing that the Lav: was enforced.
5. No upward revision would be made this year in
the

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.95)
-5 -
the sales quota granted the Standard-Vucuum Oil Company.
On November £0, 1934, a conrerence .as arranged
between Mr. Yoshino, Vice Minister for Commerce and
Industry, Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the Burcau of Conaeic ui
Affairs of the Foreirn Oftice,  nd the reor se totives
of the Stundard-V: cuam il con ny n the irin Cun
Petroleum Comp ny ( g( 7 or y Ls : ten No. 1060).
A resumé of the conversation, nien continu  or over
four bours, was trene iit ( t the Le rt ent in my
tel grum No. 15. Nove ber :4, l0 a. ., but for the
1/
further intor ation of the Lepart ent there is enelosed
a sum ury prepurec by the reprecent tive of the Lising
Sun Petroleum Company. It will be obeerved that, lthough
the representatives o? the forein oil com  nies mere
tole unconciti n: lly by the Chief of the . tning bureau
that con lete busines:  lins ( inclucin: in ort 1:ns to
cover sules ne stor:  e) u.t b ub itted in ediately,
Mr. Yoshino and mr. Kurusu o ter a : compromire scheme,
by which the oil comp:nies coult cubmit provisional plans,
conditional upon the decision of their head offices as
to whether or not tney woulc f nu it o. sible to continue
in businees in Japan unoer the rovisi ns or the Petro-
leum Inaustry Lav.
Following thi: conference, two conferences were held
between members of the staffs of the American E besy, the
British Embasry cnd the Notherlands Legation, and the re-
presentatives of the two foreign oil companies, to discuss
the advisability of submitting the provisional plans as
suggested by r. Yoahino and mr. Kurusu. The pil companies
naturally desired to protect their interests as ar as
might

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
might be possible and were in favor of submitting the
provisional plans, as failure to do so would subject
them to possible cancellation of their import and sales
licenses for 1S35 and to possible heavy fines. The re-
pre. entatives of the bmba. i  ne Le ation, on the o her
hand, pointet out the o sibility that th. cubrission
of the provisional plans ri ht rcake: the compuniest stand
and might prejudice uny action which the tovern ents
interested mi ht heve une r conric ration. It was also
pointed out that the submis: ion of provisional lans, con-
ditional only unon the d cision as to wheteer or not the
companies woulc continue in business in Ji pan, vould ob-
ligate the compnies to rulfill those ol: ns if they ce-
ciaed to continue in busines: on a r a ceu sctle or on
some other basis than the pres nt one. It was finally
decided thet the provisional 1: ns i ht be safely sub-
mitted if accompunied by : letter stating, in part, that
"this is being submitted s bject to alteration and con-
ditional upon a decision of our principuls as to whether
or to vhat extent they are able to continue in business
in Japan under the conditions inposec by the Petroleum
Industry Law". It was further aecided that the oil com-
panies shoulo refer the cuestion of the auvisability of
submitting the plans to their head off ces ana that the
Enbassies and Legtion ghould request the advice of the
Deprtment of State anu the respective Foreign Offices in
regard to the question of prejudicing any action which
might be contemplated. (Embassy's telegram No. 257, November
24, 10 a.m.). The Embassy is informed that the foreign oil
companies

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
companies have now received authorization to submit the
provisional lans as suggested from their head offices,
which consulted with their respective Governments.
It will be observed r'rom the memorandur of the con-
ference beween Mr. ioshin u .r. Kurusu on the one
side and the representatives of the foreign oil com-
panies on the other that on two occasions the proposal
was auv nced that the foreign oil comounies should
state definitely whether or not they coulu continue in
business in Japan under the rovisions of the Petroleum
Industry Law. It is bclieved that the pronosals were
advanced from the Japanese s ue in order to obtain  vi-
dence to present to the Petroleun Committee org:nized
in accordance vith the Petroleum Inuustry L or to the
Diet, in a possible future attempt to obtuin mocirica-
tions of the stock-holdin provisions of the Law and its
accompen.ing reul:tions.
According to the vernacular newspapers nd to rumors
in the trade, the Japanese oil companies are finding
themselves in difficulties in carrying out the stock-
holding provisions of the law. They find, accoraing
to the newspapers, that they will neea some forty million
yen to provide the tanks snd the oil to fill them, ana that
under the present conditions in the oil trade, they can-
not hope to make the auditional investment profitable.
They have therefore petitioned the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry for a subsidy, but as the Finance Minister
refused to consider a subsidy, they cre now petitioning
for an increase of ten sen per gallon in the price of
gasoline. It is probable that they hope for an eventual
increase

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.97)
- 6 -
increase of five sen per gallon, but it is doubtful
that even that increase vill be allowed, as the op-
position o: the taxi nd bus conpanies will unuoubtedly
influence the decisions or the Pctroleum Comittee.
The attitude of the authoritier in reg: re to the
enforcement or the tock-holt in. ovision: o the 1  is
rapidly weukening, if evicence ava 1 bl to the E ba. sy
can be b lievea. The offici ls of the inistry of Com-
nerce and Inuustry h ve ae pted the provici n: 1 busi-
ness plens of the foreign oil comninies, accom anied
by letters disclaiming ractically cll resnonsibility
for the plans on the part of the comotnies. This in
itself indicater considerable concess: n by the au-
thorities. On Nove..ber 30, 194, r. N ville or this
E bassy haa a conversstion with .r. Kurusu, the Chief
of the Commercial Bureau of the Foreign Office, in vhich
r. Kurusu disclosed the issatisfaction of the Jap-nese
oil companies with the law. A memor:nuum of the con-
versation is enclosed.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
Copy of Sumnary of Conference
of November 20, 1934.
Memorandum of Conversation between
Mr. Neville and lir. Kurusu, November 30, 1954.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.99)
1073.4r.20034
YOKOHAMA, 21/11/34
NOTES OF INTERVIEW BETWEEN MR. YOSHINO (VICE MINISTER OF COMMERCE
 INDUSTRY), MR. KURUSU (CHIEF OF THE BUREAU OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS,
FOREIGN OFFICE), AND MESSRS. GO0LD AND ELY, ON 20th NOVEMBER 1934.
Mr. Yoshino began by stating that there was no wish or
intention on the part of the Government that the foreign companies
should be driven out of Japan as the result of the enforcement of
the Petroleum Industry Law; on the contrary it was desired that
they should remain, and he wished therefore to make the following
points:-
(1) For the reasons which had been explained previously, the
Government considered it essential to sanction Plans of Undertaking
annually; but it would be possible for the foreign companies to
obtain a long term guarantee, say for ten years, of their present
trade in all products.
(During a private conversation after the interview Mr. Kurusu
expressed the opinion - which would have to be confirmed by the
Legal Bureau - that such a guarantee could be given by the Minister
of Commerce & Industry and made internationally binding by means of
official notifications through the Foreign Office to the Governments
of the companies concerned: it would have to be conditional in order
to obviate difficulties which might be caused by changes in the
relative offtakes of different products).
(2) The Government desired refining in Japan and therefore in
alloting trade quotas would give first preference to Refiners. By
"refiners" he meant Refiners as a whole: there would be no
discrimination whatsoever against refining enterprises controlled
by foreign capital.
(3) Applications for new refineries would have to go before the
Petroleum Committee for approval, but here again there would be no
disorimination against foreign capital, and applications would be
judged

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
solely in the light of the domestic demand and supply
tuation. First preference would be given to importers of
refined produots who desired to convert their enterprises to
refining.
This statement of Mr. Yoshino's gave rise to a discussion of
the question of balancing products, as it seemed to Mr. Goold that
the Government so far had viewed refining solely from the standpoint
of the gasoline demand. Mr. Yoshino admitted that the situation
presented difficulties and stated that they would have to be met
by one of the following alternatives:-
(a) Export (of distress products), which would be desired
by Refiners but which, in his opinion, necessitated a duty refund;
this so far had been refused by the Finance Department, who had
already been approached by the Department of Commerce & Industry.
(b) An improvement in refining technique and practice which
would increase the proportion of gasoline extracted from raw material.
(c) Consideration of other products, and not gasoline only,
when giving permits for refining.
In short, the problem involved both technical and economic
considerations and was one that would have to go before the
Petroleum Committee, which now is expected to have its first
meeting early in December.
Here Mr. Kurusu interpolated - in regard to questions which
have to be considered by the Committee - that it seemed to him that
the foreign companies were "doing all the dirty work" in connection
with problems common to all the companies. Mr. Goold pointed out
that, notwithstanding the truth of Mr. Kurusu's remark, the foreign
companies were constantly being blamed and that his company had been
the object of attacks, which patently were inspired, in the vernacular
oil press, especially in regard to the current rate of their gasoline
sales. Both companies pointed out that to keep within the quotas
allotted

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
to them by the Government for July/December they were
foroed to restrict sales (which were being made at full
nodule prices) and as a consequence were receiving strong protests
from their dealer organizations who had signified their intention
of complaining to the Ministry direct: and Mr. Goold pressed strongly
for an upward revision of the S.v.C's quota which, he stated, was
less than it should be even on the principle used by the Ministry
and represented a reduction in their trade.
After a long discussion Mr. Yoshino stated that the foreign
companies would have to accept and abide by the principle on which
the Ministry had based the July/December quotas; also that the quotas
allotted could not be changed: he promised however to give sympathetic
consideration to Mr. Goold's representations when fixing quotas for
1935. To overcome the difficulties which the foreign companies were
finding in keeping within their quotas and satisfying their dealer
organizations, he advocated closer cooperation generally with the
Japanese companies and a sales pool, in the formation of which the
Ministry was willing to assist.
In the course of this discussion Messrs. Goold and Ely drew
attention to the fact that the present level of gasoline prices was
definitely unremunerative. Mr. Yoshino informed them that the
Japanese companies had recently petitioned the Government's epproval
of an advance in price. The Ministry's first concern, when so
approached, was whether it was possible for the oil companies to
improve their position by economies rather than by raising prices -
and in this connection also he advocated the formation of a sales
pool as a means of reducing expenditure. He confirmed that the
Government did not contemplate allowing any other payment or
compensation for the cost of stock holding (which the Government
had estimated at about 1 Sen per A.G.) than could be recovered in
market prices and that the advance proposed by the Japanese companies
had included an allowance for that purpose.
Mr.

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Yoshino then requested the foreign companies to "cooperate
the existing system"; Messrs. Goold and Ely explained that the
whole situation was in the hands of their Governments and their
head offioes: they would be very glad to pass on what they had been
told and asked if Messrs. Yoshino and Kurusu had any further points
to elucidate.
Mr. Kurusu asked if the question of stock holding was holding
up & decision and, on being told that it was the principal difficulty,
indicated somewhat emphatically that the Japanese Government was
not going to be influenced by representations from the British and
U. S. Governments into altering its Petroleum Law or abolishing the
stock holding obligations. However, after some discussion with Mr.
Yoshino, he went on to say that in the opinion of the Japanese
Government no "concrete" representations concerning the stock
holding provisions of the Law had been received: but, if the
foreign companies investigated the cost and it should be specifically
represented with supporting figures - "from a commercial standpoint,
no politics" - that economically the burden was so great that, rather
than bear it, they would have to withdraw from Japan, then all
Departments of the Japanese Government would have to investigate
and reconsider the question in the light of alternative sources of
supply.
(Subsequently, in private conversation, Mr. Kurusu expressed
the personal opinion that if the foreign companies withdrew, or
even cut down their trade so that their present storage facilities
could meet the resultant reduced stock holding obligations, the
Japanese companies would not be able to bridge the gap and Japan
would be faced with a shortage of supply. He inferred that so
strong an attitude on the part of the foreign companies would assist
him and Mr. Yoshino to influence other Government Departments which
were insisting on upholding the stock keeping provisions of the law;
and added incidentally that the British and U. S. Embassies would
mow how best to phrase representations).
m

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
conclusion Mr. Yoshino brought up the matter of the foreign
mpanies' inoomplete Plans of Undertaking for l935. Messrs. Goold
and Ely explained their position and stated that their applications
for postponement had been definitely refused by the Mining Bureau,
which had threatened the imposition of penalties. After some dis-
cussion Mr. Yoshino stated that if the Returns were made conditionally -
the fulfillment of import programmes to cover sales and stock keeping
being made subject to the companies' decision as to whether or not
it was economically possible for them to carry on business in Japan
under the Petroleum Law - they would be accepted. It would have
to be understood however that in these circumstances any quotas
allotted by the Government to the foreign companies would also be
conditional. He pressed the companies to complete their Returns
in that manner and on that understanding, so that the Ministry
could proceed to the business of fixing quotas for 1935.
*****************
TGE:AC

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.97)
Pnclusure No 2
to despatch
073of34 from the
y en Totyo
Conversation.
Mr. Neville and Mr. Kurusu,
Chief of the Commercial Bureau
of the Foreign Office, November 30,
1934.
Japanese Oil Control Law.
After discussing the knchurian oil monovoly,
Mr. Kurusu referred to the situation in J: pan. Le stid
that the Japanese comptnies were it a very difficult
position in regara to the six months storage reguire-
ment. He said that mr. Hashimoto of Japan Oil Company
wes, n thoutht, tor resoon: ibie thn tn, on prson
for the enactment of the Control Law. He had gitated
it inu voted for it as a me ber of the House of Peers,
and now he haa petitionea the Department of Commerce
and Inaustry to ease the storage requirements. Further,
he had requested a raise in the price of gasoline. Mr.
Kurusu told me t at he had also had a talk vith the
Mitsubishi oil man who had expressed great dissatis-
faction with the law. He said that he thou ht the
oil companies should act as a unit, and something
might be done about it. He adueu that he knew that
the foreign oil men distrustea Hashimoto, who un-
doubtedly haa imagineu that in some way the Japanese
companies, or, at any rate his own company, would
reap some benefit from the Oil Control Law. Mr. Hashi-
moto, however, had been told that if he did not use up
his quota this year he would be given a smaller one next
year. He said that all this pointed to the advisability
of

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
of the oil men all working together. I said that I
should pass the information along, but I thought
that the forein companies were a aiting aevelopments.
Mr. Kurusu then said that mr. Fukuda of the Mining
Bureau had muddled matters. He said that this man had
been suffering from ingomnia for nearly two years, and
was really unfitted for his position. I said that I knew
nothing of that, but I aid know that the oil companies
had on different occasions founo it impossible to get
information from that Bureau.
Edwin L. Neville.

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.95)
7E
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
61b
LONDON
This telegram must be
yil
olosely paraphrased be-
Dated December 18, 1934
fore being commamicated
to anyone. (A)
FROM
Rec'd 6:10 pm
Secretary of State
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
26.t Foutm
Washington
DEC 19 1934
and 2oly
Departmant of State
DEC 20
628, December 18,
844.6363
149
In compliance with Department's 431, December 14, & pr,
894.6363/154
Millard and I met at the Foreign Office today with the offi-
cers handlin: t'ris poblem.
One.F si  overrene t el that it is the Japanese
application of t luw ani not the law itself that is parti-
cularly detrimental to foreign oil interests. On November
20 the Japanose Government, in conversation with oil interests
expressed a villingness to consider certain modifications
which, up to date, has never been replied to. British Gov-
ernment do not feel these modifications go far enough an
are practically no concession at all. It is for this reason
they do not favor the procedure outlined in paragraph twc o
1146
subdivision one of your 428, December 10, 8 pm, since Forci
Office argues that if American an 1/or British officials shou.
now merely pave the way for subsequent conversations by the
oil interests with Japanese officials it would look as th
the governments concerned tacitly acquiesced in the above
mentioned Japanese suggestions to the oil companies on Nov-
ember 20th.
Two. Consequently, the Foreign Office prefer that
Clive

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.98)
mam
2- #628 from London
Clive and Grew, or any high ranking officials of the Em-
bassies, should make an carly visit at the
Tokyo Foreign
Office very much as outlined by Grew in paragraph two of
1149
Department's 431, Deoomber 14, 8 pm. These officials would
explain that from their governments' point of view the sug-
gestions made by the Japanese Government to the oil inter-
ests on Novenber 2oth were in fact no concession at all.
These officia's, while stressing orally their governments'
position, would thon leave written lemorandum with the Japa-
nese as approved  teoir goverm enhs. The British envisage
that Clivo's oral representations should be supplemented by
memorandum based on the British: oil interests' brief referred
to in paragraph one of my 620, Docember 11, 6 pm.
Three. The Foreign Office stutes it will be very
much influenced by the British Ambassador's opinion but it
1s propared to authorize Clive or whatever official may havo
this proposed discussion with the Japanese Foreign Office
to state, in his discretion, at the conclusion of this pro.
posed discussion (if indeed the Japanese attitude makes
such a suggestion feasible) that if the Tokyo authorities
would desire to discuss the matter with the interested oil
high officers, the British Embassy would undertake so to
inform them (these British officers are now in Shanghai).
Should the Japanese authorities appear to view this sugges-
tion favorably the British Embassy in Tokyo would then ad-
vise

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.99)
mam
3- #628 from London
advise the local oil interests there, who would in turn con-
sult with the high officers of their companies as to whether
or not to proceed to Tokyo for discussion with the Japanese
authorities. In other words, I gather the British do not
think it worth while bringing the oil high officers into
Japanese Government
direct contact with the
through official paving of
the way if the Japanese Governnent, in discussion with in-
terested foreigr ofricials, remains adamant in its position.
Furthermore, Fore  Office is aporoiensive over oil high
officers threatening the Japanece nov with "measures to
meet the situati.n" if Anerican c operation can not be ef-
fective. The British Fore gn Office obviously realize the
special United States circumstances involved in the Depart-
ment's present decision in paragraph three of telegraphic
instruction 422, December 5, 11 am. Nevertheless, they aic
frankly apprehensive of any threat being advanced by the
o1l interests to the Japanese Government if these Britisn,
American, and Dutch oil interests arc not agreed beforehan
among themselves that such a threat can eventually be satis-
factorily implemented. Therefore, the British do not desirc
that the oil high officers talk direct with the Japanese
Government if Clive is of the conclusicn that the Japanese
Government remains as adamant as it was in the beginning.
On the other hand, the Foreign Officc was inclinod to be
hopeful that the Japanose might begin to show a little more
conciliatory

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.97)
mam.
4- #628 from London
conciliatory tone.
Please cable Departmont's instructions that I may
infor: tho Foreign Office.
ATHERTON
IAM CIB

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
TELEGRAM SENT
(erm)
ARING OFFICE
1-120
TO BE TRANSMITTED
ADIOATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
Department
DFATHENT OFTATE
Washington,
Charge to
Devember 20, 1934.
A20
7 pm
LONDON (England).
DIVIS ON SP
One. Department is informing Grew of the essential
foatures of your telegram under reference and is suggesting
894.6363/1
that he confer with Clive with the view to obtaining a
detailed understanding of the latest views of the British
Foreign Office and of the exact procedure it now envisages;
that thereafter, provided he conours and Amerioan oil
interests so desire and provided his British colleague
54
takes similar action, he may, with the Department's ap-
proval, proceed along the lines briefly indicated to you in
paragraph two of the Department's 431, December 14, 8 p.m.
Two. Department is informing Grew that it leaves for
joint decision by him and by his British colleague the ques-
tion whether mention should be made, in their contemplated
discussions with Japanese officials, of the special repre-
sentatives of the oil interests now in Shanghai.
Three. Inform Foreign Office of the foregoing and
report any developments by telegram.
894.6363/154
nm1
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
.19

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
(Rcm)
TELEGRAM SENT
PARING OFFICE
1-120
TO BE TRANSMITTED
INDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
Charge Department
PORTN
OFPARTMENTOFSTATE
Charge to
W'ashinglon,
December 20, 1934.
AMEMBASST,
B
210
ANOS
Your 274, Docember 13, 2 p.m.
One. American Embassy, London, on December 18 dis-
894.6363/1
oussed orally with Foreign Office the subject of further
ropresentations to the Japanese Government. Embassy's
tologram of December 18 to Department states inter alia
QUoTk Foreign Office prefer that Clive and Grew, or any
high ranking officials of the Embassies, should make an
5
4
early visit at the Tokyo Foreign Office very much as out-
lined by Grew UNQUOTE (see paragraph six, your 274,
December 13, 2 p.m.); that Foreign Office is of the opinion
that, if, in disoussion with Embassy officials, the Japanese
Government remains adamant in its position, it would not
repeat not be wise to bring the special representatives of
the oil interests into direct contact with the Japanese
Government; that Foreign )ffice is apprehensive of any
threat being advanced by the oil interests to the Japanese
Government if British, American, and Dutch interests are
not repeat not agreed before hand that such a threat can
eventually be satisfactorily implemented; that Foreign
Office is, nevertheless, prepared to authorize Clive to
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
31.

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM SENT
Bepartment of State
Washingion,
一 8 -
state, in kis diseretion, at conelusion of proposed
diseussion, if Japanese attitude makes such suggestion
feasible, that ir Japanese officials desire to discuss the
matter with the special representatives of the British oil
interests mow in Shanghai, the British Embassy would
undertake to so inform them.
Two. Department suggests that you confer with your
British eolleague with a view to obtaining a detailed
understanding of the views of the British Foreign Office
and of the exact procedure it now envisages. If, there-
after, you continue of the opinion as expressed in para-
raph six of your 274, December 13, 2 p.m., and if the
Ameriean oil interests so desire, you are authorized,
provided your British colleague takes similar action, to
preeeed along the lines suggested by you in paragraph six
and eight of your telegram under reference.
Three. Inasmuch as officials of the Japanese
Govermment have intimated that future governmental repre-
sentations should include more concrete evidence, and
preswmably statistical data, in regard to the ecomemic
bmpden waich the Petroleum Law would place upen fereign oil
terests, which evidence the eil interests, if so inelined,

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.91)
TELEGRAM SENT
artment of State
Washingion,
sould best supply, and because of ether factors in the
situation, the Department continues of the opinion that it
would be advantageous for special representatives of the
oil interests to confer, directly, with Japanese officialdem.
Bepartment, however, leaves for joint decision by you and
by your British colleague the question whether mention
should be made, in your contemplated disoussions with
Jepenese officials, of the special representatives of the
oil interests now in Shanghai.
Four. Department is informing London Embassy in above
sense, for communication to Foreign Office.
Five. Report action taken by telegraph.
Huee
ay
004.6563/154
mmN
eewy
FEISOM:EJL
FB
M..

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM REOEIVED
RR
Tokyo
This telegran must be
closely paraphrased be
FROM
Dated December 22, 1934.
fore being comnunicated
to anyone (B)
Recd. 2:40 a. m.
yt
Secretary of State,
FAR  AFRS
Washington.
1
1934
Departmont of State
283, December 22, noon.
894.6363
Department's 210 December 20, 8 p. m.
894.6363/1
One. I conferred with Clive this morning. He
stated thit he was in substantial agreement with us in
regard to the proposed procedure and that although his
instructions have not yet arrived he feels warranted in
5
making the proposed informal representations without further
5
instructions.
Two. As it probably will be impossible to deter ine
from the oral reply to our representations whether or not
the Japanese Government will "remain adamant", Clive feels
that the decision as to the proposed discussions between the
special representatives of the oil companies and the Japanese
officials oannot intelligently be based upon such reply.
Three. The two embassies will confer jointly with
the local representatives of the oil companies early next
week, before representations are made, in order to ascertain
their views.
RR
GREW

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.99)
X
RR
Tokyo
This telegram must be
closely naraphrased be-
Dated December 22, 1934.
fore being conmunicated
to anyone (B)
Recd. 2:40 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
383, Decembor 22, noon.
Department's 210, December 20, 8 p. m.
894.
One. I conferred with Clive this morning. He
stated thet he was in substantial agreement with us in
regard to the proposed procedure and that although his
instructiens have not yet arrived he feels warranted in
15
instructions.
Two. As it probably will be impossible to deter ine
9
from the oral reply to our representations whether or not
the Japanese Government will "remain adamant", Clive feels
that the dec sion  s to the proposed discussions between the
special representatives of the oil companies and the Japanese
officials cannct intelligently be based upon such reply.
Three. The two embassies will confer jointly with
the local representatives of the oil companies early next
week, before representations are made, in order to ascertain
their views.
RR
GREW

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.96)
EE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MED
This message must be
1-1836
FROM
closely paraphrased
TOKYO
before boing communi-
cated to anyone (a)
Dated Decomber 25, 1934
Rec'd 7:51 a.m.
yle
Secretary of State,
FA AS
Washington, D. C.
41934
894.6363/156
Department of State
284, December 25, 7 p.m.
1152
One. My 283, December 22, noon. On behalf of
local representative of tho Standard Vacuum the
Embassy yesterday seut the following message in
confidential ciphor to to Consulato Genoral at
Shanghai:
"Docember 24, 1 .m. Pleaso deliver a para-
phraso of the following message to Goold, Standard
Vacuum Oil Company, Shanghai:
British and Amorican Embassies are authorized
to mako informal representations to pave tho way for
your discussions with the Japanose officials if the
oil interosts concur.
Reprosentations will pro-
FLED
bably be made on the 27th or 28th and wil1 outlino
again tho difficultios of the oil companios and wilr
stato that the assurances so far givon by the Japanoso
Governmont are insufficient to remove the anxiotios
felt by the oil companies. Embassies will add orally
that if the Japanose authorities think that a possi-
bility

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 - From Tokyo Docembor 25, 7 p.me #284
bility exists that a solution of tho difficulties
could be found through discussions betireen the Japa-
neso officials and the company directors now in
Shanghai, the oil companies might authorize the
diroctors to come to Japan for that purpose. Do you
agree with this procedure?"
Tvo. Department's 215, Decomber 24, 1 p.m.
Tho local reprosentative ef the Standard Vecuum
has been kopt curcently and fully inicrmed ef the
Department's attitude and recent information has
been conveyed to the special representative at
Shanghai by special mossengor. Tho substance of the
Department's telegran under reference will be
conveyed to the local representative tomorrow
morning for transmission as indicated by the Depart-
ment.
GREW
WSB

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEWYORK
74.6363
December 24th, 1934.
Reference: FE 894.6363/152.
enter 31 1984
894.6363/1
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
auad.
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
A
111
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Departipent of State
As promised, we are attaching & copy of a
message received today from our representatives at Shanghai.
57
In accordance with your suggestion, our replyhas been confined
to the following:-
"Re your telegram December 22nd are advised this morning
views of American Government not changed and understand
Ambassador Tokyo has necessary instructions."
From a previous message which was received here
Dec. 20th, it is evident that our representatives, Mr. Walden
and Mr. Parker, are in complete accord with the Asiatic repre-
sentative, Mr. Godber, as to the essential modifications in the
Japan Control Law which they consider necessary to obtain in
order to satisfaotorily continue our respective operations in
the Japanese Empire. That telegram went on to say that the three
gentlemen were awaiting advices from their Embassies before pro-
ceeding to Tokyo.
It appears to us that any possible obscurity which
G
may now exist as to the method of procedure will veryshortly be
clarified and we assume that our representatives will proceed to
Japan within the next few days for the purpose of commenoing con-
versations with the Japanese officials.
We shall have pleasure in advising you of develop-
ments as they are received by us, and in the meantime, we again
take this opportunity of expressing our deep appreciation of your
continued and helpful efforts in our behalf.
Sincerely,
Mudinf. Cor
KFC:M
Kersey F. Coe.
ATTAGH.

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.99)
INCOMING CABLEGRAM
FROM
WALDEL PARIKER
SHANGHAI
TO
STANDVAC NEW YCRK
DATE
DEC. 22/34.
As a result of London conference if VWashington D.C. views our
problem in different light than formerly we should have some
indication STOP London advises friends that Foreign Offices
are prepared now to ask Japanese Covernment to receive oil
officials and only await State Depertment issuing similar
instructions SToP Friends make point in which we concur that
in case our respective Covernnents ake no further protest to
Japanese Government at th's time they should be careful to
leave situation so that door is not closed to us and that oil
companies can negotiate Vie can do nothing further here until
Washington acts.
WALDEN.PARKER.

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
(recm)
Deccu!! 10
In reply refer to
FE 894.6363/157
Dear Mr. Coo:
894.6363/1
The reeeipt is aoknowledged of your letter of Deeem-
ber 24 and the eopy attached thereto of the telegram
mder date Deeember 22 received by you from Mr. Walden
and Mr. Parker in further reference to the Japanese
Petroloum Industry Law.
51
In this connection, I may state that, following our
convermation by telephone on December 24, the Department
informed the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo by telegraph of
the subjeot of our disoussion and of the suggestion at
that time made to you that Mr. Walden and Mr. Parker be
informed to the effeet that the attitude of the American
Government in regard to the problems which confront
foroign oil interests in Japan and in Manchuria remains
unchanged and that the American Ambassador at Tokyo is in
possession of full instructions in the premises.
The
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
26 Broudway,
New York, New York.

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.97)
● 2 -
The Ameriean Embassy, in acknowledging, uneer date
December 26, the Department's telegram under referemee,
stated that the loeal representative of the Standard-
Vaeuum Oil Cempany has at all times been kept eurrently
and fully informed of the Department's attitude. The
Embassy also stated that on Deeember 24 1t transmitted to
the Amerieam Comsul General at Shanghai for delivery to
Mr. Goeld a message from the local representative of the
Standard-Vaeuum Oil Company to the effect that authority
has been received, both by the American Embassy and by
the British Embassy, to open the way, by means of infor-
mal representations, for discussions between the speeial
representatives, now at Shanghai, of the oil interests
and offioials of the Japanese Government; that on Decem-
ber 27 or 28, at whioh time the ropresentations probably
would be made, there will again be outlined the diffioul-
ties enoountered by the various oil interests; an? that
mention will be made of the fact that the Japanese Govern-
mont has so far failed to remove the anxieties of the con-
cerned oil companies. The message also stated that the
Embassies will, in making the aforementioned representa-
tions, add orally a statement to the effeot that if in
the opinion of the Japanese authorities a solution of the
probiem might be arrived at as a result of disoussions be-
tween the special representatives of the oil interests
and

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
and Japanese effieials, the spesial reprssontatires might
be sranted by their respeetive eompanies authority to pre-
eeed te Japem for the purpose indieated. The message eom-
eluded with a request for an indieatien whether Mr. Geele
agreed with the procedure as outlined.
In view of the foregoing and of the faet that the
Department for sometime past has held to the opinion that
it weuld be advantageous for the special representatives
of the oil interests to confer direetly with appropriate
offieials of the Japanese Government and has so informed
the British Goverament, it would appear that there are in
errer at least two of the implications contained in the
telegram umder date December 22 addressed to your company
by Mr. Walden and Mr. Parker, namely, that the Department
of State has withheld ite approval of direot disoussions
between the special representatives of the oil interests
and Japanese offioials; and that it doer not favor fur-
ther governmental representations at this time. In any
event, 1t is believed that the views of the Department
are et present olear to all conoerned.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far Fastern Affairs.
n4
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
12/27/34

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.95)
1-188
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
OONFLRENTIAL CODE
Collect
NONOONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department ofeState
Charge Department
PLAIN
OFFARTMENT OF STATE
on
Charge to
Washington.
This cable was sent co
4D.24AM ber 24, 1934.
It shoulc ne carerully 
AMEMBASSY,
COMHICAT ONS
TOKYO (Japan).
AND NLLJS
21
894.6363
Socony-Vacuum has just received from its'special
representative's now at/Shanghai/a telegram/which/indioates
894.6363
that/those/representatives/apprehend/or have been/given/
from/some/source/intimations/that the/inconolusive adjourn-
ment of/the London/naval/conversations may/occasion a change
or/attitude/on the part of the American/and British/Govern-
ments/in regard to/the problems'w ichy confront/the/oil
companies/in reference to/Japan/ane Manchuria.
Department has/suggested that/Socony-Vacuum/inform
these/representatives/that the/American Government's attitude
is in/no/repeat/no way/changed/and that/you have/full/
instructions.
Department/sugsests that you give/socony-vacuum/repre-
sentative/in fokyolthe fullest/possible/information,/in your
discretion,(with regard to, the exact situation/as of/this/
moment,ifor transmission/by him/by/means/assurin /absolute/
confidence,/to the/special representatives of his/company/
now at, hanshai.
FE:JH/ZK
FE
Enciphered by
Sent by operaton
11
i
1ndex Bu No.)

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
London, December 14, 1934.
No. 1111
SUBJECT: Japanese and Manchurian Oil Monopolies.
894.6363
1934
Departwent of State
m
893.6363mania
19 D DEC 64 10 56
2
S
894.6363/158
C
ECED
5
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
F/FG.
Sir:
With reference to paragraph five of the Department's
1146
telegraphic instruction No. 428 of December 10, 8 p.m.,
concerning the Japanese and Manchurian oil monopolies,
1-2/
I have the honor to enclose herewith copies of memoranda
of the conversations on the subject at the Foreign Office
FILED
on November 27th and on December 7th.
Respeotfylly yours,
Rely "Atherton,
Enolosures:
Charg d'Affaires ad interim.
Memoranda as above.
EM/MVB

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.92)
DEC 1 1 1034
osure No.....to despatch No..... of.
1 the Embassy at London, England.
London, Decenber 14, 1934.
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. ATHERTON:
On November 27th, as reported in the Embassy's tele-
1137
gram to the Department No. 603, Novembet 27, 7 p.m., Doomen
and Millard went to the F reisn Office at Orde's invitation,
where they saw Orde end his c istant, Randall. The follow-
ine remarks made at thrt visit at the Forein Orfice tre
summarized below as a matter of recorc.
Doo lan been the conversation by seyin that he wished
to meke it perfectly clear th:t he hed not been cuthorized
to speak for the Depurtment or in  et t earay en discussions
with the Forei n Orrice in en orricial cap: city, but that he
thought thet it migat be ueeful if he could t ke cdvantage of
his presence in London to di cucs inforan ily  ith officials
of the British Forein Crfice the oil citu: tion in the Fur
East. He remerked thct the Ameriean Governont hed conveyed
to the British Government its willinghess to ex mine eny
sucsestion thet ni ht be pd Pory rd by the British thet
was csleulcted to sefe urrd the commen a erieen : ne Britich
interests in Japen ane Hnelurie, pna e ves preparec to
supply sueh iformction ts he a d at ie sie ostl which would
help the British to formulate  tue er ti m.
Orde seid the t she only wy to mtke etrective tny plan
to resist the Jep nuse moaopoly luve  as For the Britich
and United States oil conanies to cct toet , to which
Doomen ared.
Orde

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
Orde then said that he understood that the trade of
the British oil como nies and that of the Anerican companies
in Japan and Manchukuo were about equal. Doonen firmly dis-
agreed with this, :nd stated thet as far ts he could learn
in Washington the oil trade of the British colupenies in J: pen
was very considerably lerger then thet of the Alerican com-
panies, end thet in the cese of Msnchukuo the difference was
much creater still. crde demrre so.evilt, but let this pass.
Domen then said in pubstaice thet, epeakine quite in-
formally und without instruetiene, he tho t the Department
of St: te felt that cince the British he ve the preponderant
interest, it was uo to the  to t he the leaa, tnd the Depart-
ment would ender vor to ive ey athetic consideration to eny
propocels the Forei n Orfice i i t k ke. Orde :lso Let this
2CSE.
Orde seid vit e smile thrt thou h it lad been suested
in Britier ofricicel  uartere thce cn pil ember mi t cruse
o Jopunece expedition to Necps Borneo, he dia n  believe
tere wee :ry eraer of tis t hin ple ce.
D omn referpee to Sir H. Deturding's trip to the United
Sup tee lr et august pua so the interview between Mr. Tckes,
the Secretery or t e Intevior, nd Detercine and Tes le,
concernin ic Crde sid e v: P iliar. D oman eaid
thet Deterdin: : n Fecle, trter eviewie the il monopoly
situstien,  shed t e seccetery of the Iaterior what, if eny-
thine, could be done to price t'l asericen cil interests in
lire.

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
line. Deterding and Teagle s:id that they felt that the
oil in Venezuela, Mexico, Russi:, etc., not controlled by
British companies or the Standard Oil companies, could not
detract to any important extent from the possible carrying
out of a threat of a combined embarjo by British and Stan-
dard cil comoanies, since the lo" quality of such oil end
the high cost of transport would nake it unsuitable and
very uneconomicel cs a competitor. They scid, however, they
were concerned about other United States coupanies. Mr. Ickes
replied that he thought :onethin: might be done, and was quite
villing to look into te que tion crefully if the Department
of State would requert hin in vritins to co so. The matter
was a pcrently left at thst.
Orde remerked thet the British cil inouetry is unified
and that therefore the British are not feced with the prob
lem of securiny concerted acti n within the inoustry, which
problem he understood uxists in the United Stetee. He said
thet the British oil coneerns tre now in position to take
effective neasures to weet the situ tion, slthough they would
no tuvally fivst a ure sremselves tht sues mecsures as they
he d under conteaplati a w uld not be injurious to British
policy end natione1 interests. Doomn caid thet the circum-
stances were diflerent in the United Statee but thet it was
his understendine thst the A erican etreleum indestry is
vell orcnired.
After further convereetion, Crde st: ted the t the Bri tish
rovernment

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.94)
-4
Government would regard with favor coneerted action between
the British and American oil concerns on the following con-
ditions:
1. Any neasures that may be greed upon
should be watertight or at any rate ef ective.
2. No formal action shall be required of
the British Government.
3. The situstions in J:pen ane Manchurie
are to be deelt with as two parts of the same
problem (in other woras, eny mer sure to be teken
shell be applied to both creas or not at all).
Dooman agr ed as to the wisdon of the fore oing three
conditions for concerted action. .
Orde ssid thct some tine c the British oil interests
hed expressed a desire tin t the Anericrn end British Govern-
ments meke a joint forsl protest st T kyo. He v:s oi the
opinion th t it voula se unvise to mcke   ueh formal
representations until it bectme cle: r th:t the infoumal
representations of the Britich  nd Alericrn Enbsssies :t
Tokyo were iner ectual. Doo uen concurree, :nd added the
opinion thet we wotld be in : luvoraole position to take
the action clone the lines desired y the oil conpenies
after we have pesured ourselves thst ve could make :n eifec-
tive rejoinder in the event of the fallure of the Jap nese to
moderete their attitude. Orde stated thet thst offer reore-
sented his feelires.
After a furt er review by Doomen end Orde of the three
conditions for concerted ection mentioned in the above-men-
tioned telegram, Dooman said in subet nce:
"工

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.94)
-5-
"I feel that I should tell you frankly
that there is a stron element in the U.ited
States Government in favor of the policy of
cutting down trade barriers, quotas, exchence
restrictions, etc., end that this is a factor
we must not overlook as the persons holding this
opinion mey view the su ested possibility of
threatening Japan vith something in the neture
of an oil enbargo, es a violetion of that policy.
I do not wish to convey the impressien that it
has gone that far, but I f el it would be unftir
to you not to teli u this."
Orde thenked Doomen for his frankness, and said he
saw the point.
Orde seemed to be concerned about the United States
companies outside the Standcrd croup, :nā Rand: 1l seid he
thought that British coupenies, with the Standard companies,
would be efiective alone. There vee some talk of percen-
trges, but no one seemee to have ony definite figures. Doomen
nade some reierks on the important pl: ce hele by Tee le in
the Asericen oil inoustry, ne s id he thout Teagle was
in a position to speck for all of the Stcnd: rd Oil comp niee.
As stated in the toove-mentioned telegran, Orde seemed
esger to he ve the Britisn tnd Aiericen il intereste pl: ce
themselves in e strone pesitien vis-s-vis the Jpenese.
As slso indiceted in thet selee m, Orde said that :
threat o' an "enh reo" vould be tcde, if et ell, by the con-
panies, not the Governments, tnd that such a threet chould of
course only be nede if necessarvr. He felt quite sure thet
it vould not be ne ce sery to o as far as en cotual "embere",
as a threat would be sufficient to brine the Japanese cround.
Orde did not, however, went to risk bluffing the Jepenese
:na

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.96)
-6
and eaphasized the advantage to both Governments in mak-
ing future represent: tions if en e reement c uld be reached
on th  uestion of en "eube r o".
EHD:RF

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.96)
DEC 1 4 1934
re No.21
rnd.
:the
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
London, December 7, 1934.
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. ATILRTON:
Dooman and Millaru cullea by uppointment tocay on Orde
and Randall of the Far Lastern Lepurtment of the Foreign
Office./144)
Dooman stated that a telegram had been received from
the Department in response to a telegren sent by the Embassy
covering the conversation helu at the Foreign Office on
November 27 in regard to the oil situation in the Far Last,
1137
and he reaa the Department's telegran No. 422 of December 5,
11 a.n.
Crde raisea the question of the significance of the
term "démarche" as useu in the Department's telegram, and
after some discussion it was assumed that the term "démarche"
applied only to action of a formal ana official character,
He said that the
beyond what had alreaay been taken.
British oil interests had several weeks ago expressed a
desire that the British and merican Governments make a joint
written and fornal protest to the Japanese Government.
Since that time, however, representatives of the British oil
interests had gone to Shanghai, and vere now at Shanghai
awaiting further developments in Tokyo. Randall stated that
the British oil interests had asked for diplomatic effort to
support/

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
support the representations of their local representa-
tives in Japan.
The roreign Office accordingly had
sent forwara to Ciive a brief, which had been prepareu
by the British oil interests, settine out the various
pointsof complaint in their case against the Japanese;
and Clive had been directed to present this brief in-
formally to the Japanese Governnent.
The understanding
which the Foreign Office hau with the British oil in-
terests was that if the response of the Japanese to the
efforts of the local representatives, supported by the
British nbassaaor, was fuvorable, the representatives
of the oil interests now in Shanghai would then proceed
to Tokyo.
In the sense of the foregoing plan of action,
the British Government was, Randall stated, prepared to
instruct the British anbassador at Tokyo to "pave the way"
for discussion by representatives of the oil interests
with officials of the Japanese Government. He wonaered,
however, whether the american Government might not have
some other procedure in mind.
Dooman stated that the telegram under reference from
Washington appeared to give the impression that the american
oil interests were anxious that their relresentative who
had proceeded to the Far East be assisted by the American
Ambassador/

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Ambassador in Tokyo to enter into negotiations with the
appropriate officials of the Japanese Government.
Orde
said that that desire was not shareu by the british oil
interests; that the British oil interests believed that
the ground should first be explored by the local repre-
sentatives of the oil interests, supported by the British
Ambassador, and that the special representatives now in
Shanghai should remain away from Japan until there was
reason to believe that the Japanese were prepared to make
substantial concessions.
lie believed that the Netherlands
oil interests and the Netherlanus Government were both in
sympathy with the procedure nov. bein followea by the
British oil interests and British Government.
Dooman then referred to the suggestion put forward by
the Department that the British loreign Office act as a
clearing house. Orue remarked that the British and
American ambassadors in Tokyo have been working in close
collaboretion with each other, and he believed that for
the time being it would be advantageous for the three gov-
ernments concerned to maintain contact through their repre-
sentatives in Tokyo.
EHD/MVB

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.93)
MC
X
MC.
Tl.is tolegram must be
Tokyo,
closcly paraphrascd bo-
fore bcing communicatod
Datod Dccomber 27, 1934,
to anyone (B)
Rcccivod 7:20 A.M.
Socrotary of Stato,
Washington D.C.
285. December 27, 5 P..
Hy 264, Decomber 25, 7 P..
894.6363
Faving obtainod the agroomont of tho oil companics, the
and informel
British ad Amorican Embassics today mado oral/representa-
tions along the lines suggcsted in paragraphs six and ight
of y 4, Decul 18,  P.. Cur roprosuntations vere
made Ly Muvillo and Lickover to Lurusu and British repre-
159
sontations were made by Sansom to Kurusu. Kurusu reccived
our representations sympathctically and cxpressed sor: hope
t at a solution of tho difficulties could bc found " vithin
t. framowork of tho prosent lav ". On his own i itlative
he reeon: nded conforence wit: the special representatives
of the al ompanios and oxpr ssed pis belicf that a 'iseusea
retwe n the speeial represont tavee und the Japanese friciel
would produce fruitful rosults but that he must first cbtain
the opinion of the Vice Minister fer Commerce ane In ustry
befor: committing himsclf. Substantially the same roply was
maio thc British represcnta ions.
Sall report again when Kurusu roplios.
GREW.
1SB

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
WWC.
This tologram must be
Tokyo,
closoly paruphrasod bo-
FROatod Docombor 27, 1934,
fore boing communicatod
to anyone (B)
Recgivod 7:20 A.M.
RECEIVED
Socrotary of Statc,
D27 1934
December 29 1984
Washington D.C.
PIVISION OF
285. December 27, 5 P..
-6
My 284, Docombor 25, 7 P..
Departmant of State
894.6363/1
Having obtainod the agreoment of the oil companics, the
and informel
British and Amorican Embassios today mado oral/roprosonta-
tions along, thc linos suggostcl in paragraphs six and cight
15-0
of my 274, Docombor 13, 2 P.. Our rcprosontations wero
mado by Novillo and Dickovor to Kurusu and British ropro-
59
sontations wore made by Sansom to Kurusu. Kurusu rcccived
our roprcsontations sympathotically and oxprossod sonc hopo
that a solution of tho difficultics could bo found " within
tho framowork of tho prosent law ". On his own initiative
ho rocommended confcroncc with thc spocial reprosontative
of tho cil companics and oxprossod his boliof that a di euss
betwoon tho spocial reprosontativos and tho Japanose officia
would producc fruitful rosults but that ho must first o ain
thc opinion of tho Vico Minister for Commercc and Industry
beforc committing himsclf. Substantially tho samo roply was
made to thc British represontations.
Shall report again whon Kurusu roplics.
GREW.
ISB
1

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.97)
Be0ember 89 1984.
Deer Mr. Ceo:
with referenee to previous correspendenee in regard
to the Japanese Petroleum Industry Law, you will, I be-
lieve, be interested to know that on December 27 further
894.6363/1
eral representations were made to the Japanese Government
by the Ameriean Embassy and by the British Embassy.
The American Ambassador, in informing the Departmemt
of the above, also stated that the representations under
referenee were received sympathetically; and that the of-
5
fieial of the Japanese Government, with whom the diseus-
6
sions took place, expressed some hope that within the
framowork of the existing law there might be found a solu-
tion to the problem. The Japanese official further ex-
pressed, on his om initiative, the opinion that a diseus-
sion between the special representatives of the oil
companies and representatives of the Japanese Government
would prove fruitful and that, although he was not in
position
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.94)
-8-
pesisiem te cemmis hinself without first referrins the
matter to the Ministry ef Cemmeree and Industry, kis em
recemmendatien would be thet sueh a cenferenee be beld.
The Ambassader's telegrem conoludes with a statememt
to the effest that, as soon as he has ascertaized the de-
eisien of the Japanese Government in regard to the pro-
posed sonferemee, a further report will be made to the
Department.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
SOk4
Stanloy K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
nau
24m.H
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
12/28/34

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 13, 1934.
No. 1085,
Subject: American Oil Interests in Japan.
894.6363
yile
34    2 59
S
J
D
ESAFFAIRS
R
894.6363/160
Druartrant of Srate
pet
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
/153
I have the honor to refer to my despatch No. 1o73,
F/FG.
dated November 30, 1934, and to previous correspondence
relating to the difficulties experienced by American and
other foreign oil interests in Japan under the new Petro-
leum Inustry Law.
Enclosed with despatch No. 1073 was a memorandum of
FILED
a conversation held on November 30, 1934, between Mr. Ne-
ville,of this Embassy and Mr. Kurusu, of the Japanese
Foreign Office. In this conversation Mr. Kurusu indicated
that

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.98)
-8 -
that the Japanese oil companies were dissatisfied with
the Petroleum Industry Law and desired some modification,
adding that the oil companies should act as a unit in this
regard. In a late: conversation with Mr. Sansom, of the
ritish Embassy, Mr. Kurusu expressed his idea more clearly.
According to Mr. Sansom, Mr. Kurusu stated that, since the
law was in fact an oppressive law for all the companies,
the best solution would be for all the oil companies,
Japanese as wcll as for ign, to combine in a strong pro-
test to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The JIJI
SHIMP0 of Decomber 13, 1934, st tes that the Japanese oil
companies wil? need some Yen 60,000,000 for the construc-
tion of tanks and the purch: se of storage oil, and that
they are unable to raise this sum. They are thcrefore pe-
titioning the Minist y of Comerce and Industry for permis-
sion to raise their prices for oil products and also for
some sort of subsidy.
While the matter of a combined protest from the Japan-
ese and foreign oil companies has not yet becn thoroughly
discussed by the oil companies and their respective Embassies,
this Embassy can perceive no objection to the plan, which
it appears would do no harm and night be effective in ob-
taining some modification of themore oppressive provisions
of the law.
also
1/
There is/enclosed a memorandum of a conversation held
on December 4, 1934, between Mr. Dickover of the Embassy
and Mr. Kojiro Matsukata, of the Matsukata Nisso Oil Com-
pany, importers of Soviet gasoline. Mr. Matsukata seemed
to

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
to be feeling around for some solution of the problems of
the foreign oil companies, and intimated that they should
join with the Japanese companies in petitioning the Minis-
try of Commerce and Industry. His principal objective,
however, sc med to bc to obtain an increase in the price
of gasoline, a part of the increase t, be devoted to the
expense of stock-holding.
2/
There is also enclosed a summary, made in the Embassy,
of a series of articles which were published in the TOKYo
ASAHI on November 6,8,11,14 and 18, 1934, on the subject
of the protests lodged by the United States and Great Bri-
tain against Japan's Petroleum Industry Law. The writer
deals with the subjects of the possible suspension of sup-
plies of oil to Japan by the large foreign oil companies
and the suoply of substitutes for liquid fuel in Japan and
Manchuria. His general opinion is that Japan need not fear
the suspension of supplies of oil to Japan by British, Ameri-
can and Netherlands companies, as supplies are available
from other sources and fuel substitutes can be developed
in Japan and Manchuria. He concludes with an interesting
statement to the effect that an oil monopoly system may be
established in Japan in the future, and that the oil monopoly
in Manchuria is intended to serve as a test case.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosures:
1/Memorandum of con-
versation, Mr. Dick-
Joseph C. Grew
over and Mr. Matsukata,
December 4, 1934.
2/Summary of articles in the TOKYO ASAHI.
863.6
ERD: g

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.98)
lo utspit ch
No1085 Vcembe 13, 1934 froim the
C O P Y.
Conversation:
December 4, 1934.
Mr. Dickover and Mr. Kojiro Matsukata,
of the Matsukata Nisso Oil Company.
I lunched at the Tokyo Club to ay and after lunch
had a talk with Kojiro Matsukata, of the Matsukata Nisso
Oil Company (handling Soviet gasoline). Mr. Matsukata
wanted to know why the for ign oil conpanies did not drop
their antagonistic attitude toward the Japanese Govern-
ment and try to reach some compromise. I said that the
protests which had been made were not based on legalis-
tic grounds and that some compromise, which would put the
oil trade in Japan on a reasonably profit ble commercial
basis, might be quite acceptable. He suggested that the
foreign oil companies join with the Japanese oil companies
in petitioning for a higher price for gasoline. I pointed
out that such a solution would not obviate the necessity
for the investment by the foreign firms of very large sums
in Japan-a step which the oil companies were not willing
to take under the uncertain conditions of trade imposed
by the Petroleum Law. He asked what other solution was
possible - would the foreign oil companies withdraw from
Japan and lose their already large investments? I said
that the conditions imposed by the law might be made less
onerous - for instance, the stock-holding requirements
might be changed from six months to three and a guarantee
of future business be given. He said that he thought
that that would be impossible, and again asked why a
raise

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
raise in the gasoline price would not be sufficient.
I said that in addition to the large investment in
tanks and oil which still would be required, there was
no certainty that the yen would remain at its present
level and that the increase in ric? would therefore
be an uncertain return for a certain expenditure;
moreover, that the taxi and bus companies would probably
make it so unpleasant for the Government that the incr ase
in price might be rescinded at any time and thereby des-
troy the compensation which the companies expected to
obtain for investments already made. He then suggested
that, as a compromise plan, the foreign oil companies
proceed to store three months oil by April 1, 1935, and
after that petition the Government to be released from
further storage. I said tht I doubted that the oil com-
panies would consent to such a compromise, as they would
thereby be in the position of having accopted the stock-
holding requirements, without any surety that they would
not be required to carry the full six-months' stock.
Mr. Matsukata later asked why the oil men did not
come to Japan and talk things over with the Japanese Govern-
ment instead of going to Shanghai for a conference. I
said that the local representatives of the oil companies
had talked things over with the Government, but it must
be remembered that they were subordinates who had no au-
thority to decide big questions. He said that the meeting
of the big oil men in Shanghai and not in Japan indicated
antagonism to the Japanese Government. I said that if it
was

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
was true that they were to confer in Shanghai, I did
not believe that it indicated any antagonism but merely
a coincidence - that it happened that some were coming
from the west and some from the east and they would meet
quicker in Shanghai than in Japan.
Mr. Matsukata gave me the impression that he was
feeling around for some sort of a solution of the problem -
on whose behalf was not indicated. Also, that he was
very anxious to draw the foreign oil companies into the
petition for an increase in the price of gasoline, as
such increase would be of great benefit to his own business.
E.R. Dickover

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.96)
Luchusure No 2
to des
5. 1085 of Decumul: 13, 143y from tho
Toyo
Summary of an unsigned series of articles
published in the TOKYO ASAHI of November 6,
8,11,14,and 18, 1934, entitled "Protest by
the Unitea Ste te: nd Great Brit in ugainst
Jupan's Petrcleum Incustry Lav".
The lodging of protests by the United Stetes, Great
Britain and the Netherland: against the oil control laws
of Japan and  anchuria simultaneously une :s it  re-arranged
amazed the Japanese peo le. Being lougeu t the time or the
preliminary naval conversations, their motive is obvious.
As regerds the sales quotas given the oil firms, for-
terly under the voluntary cartel system the foreign firms
hanclea co per cent of the gasoline sela in J in and the
Japanese refineries 40 per cent; now the proportion is about
50 per cent and 50 per cent. The object of the law is not
to jeopardize vested interests of the foreign oil companies,
but to increase the proportion of the traue hanuled by the
Japanese firms, by utilizing the natural increase in demand
for this purpose. Another object is to employ the iale refining
equipment in Japan, and to inauce the foreign firms to refine
in Japan instead of i porting refined prodncts. The foreign
oil firms hold, however, that to deny then the same propor-
tion of the total trade as they had handled in the past is
tantamount to a reduction in quotas.
The Petroleum Industry Law also imposes a system of
storing oil in times of peace, for purposes of national
defense.

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
defense. The foreign oil companies are opposed to this
system.
The protests in regard to the Manchuria oil monopoly
state that the Oil Monopoly Law and the Manchuria Oil
Company Law are opposed to the principles of the open door
and equal opport nity as contained in the Nine-Power Treaty.
This is purely a commercial problem which should not have
been taken up aiplomatically. The Manchuria Oil Company
is not intended to monopolize the oil trade of Manchuria,
nor will the Manchukuo" Government monopolize oil imports.
The protests made by the United States and British
Governments were made solely on behalf of the Standard Oil
and Royal Dutch-Shell interests. (Here follow statistics
indicating that of the gasoline imported into Jupan in 1933
the Rising Sun Petroleum Company handled 50 per cent, the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company 40 per cent, and the Matsukata
Nisso Oil Company 4 per cent, while 6 per cent was manu-
factured in bond. The Japanese oil refineries during the
same period produced gasoline to the amount of 88 per cent
of the imported gasoline.) The Standard Oil Company started
operations in Japan in 1890, the Rising Sun Petroleum
Company in 1900, the Nippon Oil Company (by amalgamation of
several small Japanese refineries) in 192l, and the Ogura
Oil Company in 1925. (Here follow more or less accurate
histories of the rise of the Standard and Shell companies.)
The question arises as to the ability of the foreign
oil companies to compel attention by the Japanese Government
to the protests made by the British and American Governments,
through the suspension of supplies of oil to Japan.
Concerted

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
Concerted action by the oil companies seems to be out of
the question.
In addition to the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company and
the Rising Sun Petroleum Company, Japan has as suppliers
of crude oil the Rio Grande Oil Company, the Associated
Oil Company, Richfield Oil Company, Union Oil Company,
Texas Oil Company and the Standard Oil Company of Cali-
fornia. It is not believed tha all of these will consent
to take concerted action in association with the Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company and the Rising Sun Petroleum Company.
The supply of oil throughout the world exceeas the demand,
so there is no need to fear a boycott. Rumania, Persia and
Central and South American countries wish to sell oil to
uig!?
Japan. The Rumanian price is high, but not so his as entirely
to preclude the use of Rumanian crude oil in Japan. Japan
needs about 2,000,000 tons of crude oil annually to supply
its demand for refined products. Of this, S37,000 tons are
produced in Japan and about 200,000 tons are obtained from
Japanese wells in North Saghalien. Japanese companies are
also drilling for oil in the Netherlands Indies.
The World War taught the value of oil to all the coun-
tries of the world, and consequently nearly all countries
have now adopted oil control las. The tendency is to control
oil more rigidly than ever before. The oil monopoly law of
"Manchukuo" and the Petroleum Industry Law of Japan were
drafted with the French and Spanish oil control la s as models.
(Here follows a brief description of the French and Spanish
1aws.)
Japan

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
Japan must encourage the production of substitutes
for fuel oil, such as low temperature distillation of coal.
To supply Japan's needs for fuel oil in this way, some
10,000,000 tons of coal will be needed annually. Alcohol
is available in Japan but is expensive and requires a special
type of engine for its use alone. The Japanese,Navy, however,
has developed a fuel for airplanes and motor-cars consisting
of 50 per cent gasoline, 15 per cent alcohol and 35 per cent
benzol. The chief source of alcohol in Japan would be Taiwan
molasses, from which about 8,000,000 gallons of alcohol per
annum could be obtained. In "Manchukuo" experiments are being
made with algohol fuel obtained from Kaoliang and Indian corn.
Crude oil is also obtainable from Fushun shale. At present
output is about 75,000 tons, most of which is sold to the
Navy at a price about Yen 9.00 above the current prices for
natural crude oil. Manchuria thus could be self-sunplying
as regards fuel oils, but the industry needs encouragement.
In the future the Japanese Government ay take advantage
of a suitable opportunity to establish n oil monopoly system
in Japan, in order to make oil contril more effective than
it is now. Some think that the oil monopoly law in force in
"Manchukuo" at present is intended to serve as a test.

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
1-1336
FROM
This telogram must be
Tokio
carcfully paraphrased
before being communicated
Datod December 29, 1934
to anyone.(B)
Rec'd 6:23 a.m.
rle
894.6363/161
Secretary of State,
Washington.
S
P
287, December 29, 4 p.m.
of STIte
1.39
My 285, 'December 27, 5 p.m. - Japanese petroleum
industry law.
The Japanese press this morning published a short
news despatch from Washington announcing our oral
representations of December 27. No similar announce-
ment has as yet been published here in regard to the
British representations. I shall inform the Departrent
if and when such announcement is made.
WSB
GREW
FILEL

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Degember 29, 1934.
As the attached telegram
No. 286, December 29, noon,
from Tokyo would appear to hold
forth hope that the Japanese
Government is prepared to make
material concessions to the oil
interests, and as this informa-
tion has already been communi-
oated to the Standard-Vaouum
Company in Japan, I feel that
it would be advisable to permit
the company's New York office
to receive the information from
its owm agents rather than from
the Department.
Co you concur?
RCM:EJL

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
(mem)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
1-1336
FROM
This telegram must be
Tokio
carefully paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated December 29, 1934
to anyone. (B)
894.6363/162
Rec d 3:33 a.m.
Tecember 31 1984.
Secretary of State,
le
Washington.
Lutu 5
mn. com
286, December 29, noon.
Slandand
Vacum-
we of rate
My 285, December 27, 5 p.m.
au co
Cne. Kurusu yesterday informed Neville orally
that:
(a) Officials of the Departnent of Conaerce
and Industry wouli welcore discussions with the special
representatives of the oil companies and he (Kurusu)
believed that such discussions would be useful and well
worth while.
(b) Foreign oil refineries, if established
in Japan, would participate in the growth of denand on
equal footing with Japanese refineries.
(c) Although adhering to the policy of de-
D
veloping the Japanese refining industry, a part of the
natural increase in demand will be allotted to the for-
eign importers of refined products.
(d) As the Japanese oil conpanies are unable
to comply with the stock holding provisions of the law
because of lack of funds, some adjustment of the pro-
visions

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.99)
2-No. 286, December 29, from Tokio
Hons will be necessary.
Two. The local manager of Standard Vacuum has,
therefore, telegraphed to his special representatives
in Shanghai to proceed to Japan. It is expected thit
the discussions between the special representatives
and the Japanese officials will start about January 7.
Three. British Embassy and British oil inte ests
are following identical proccdure.
WC:RR
GREW

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.95)
Deaember pl 1984.
Dear Mr. Coe:
894.6363/162
with reference to the coneluding paragraph of the
Department's letter of Deeember 29, 1934, in regard to the
proposed conference between the speeial representatives of
the oil companies and offioials of the Japanese Government,
I may state that on December 28 the Ameriean Embassy at
Tokyo was informed by a representative of the Japanese
Fereign Offiee that officlals of the Department of Com-
meree and Industry would welcome an opportunity to disouss
the situation with the special representatives of the oil
companies. The representative of the Foreign Office also
stated that in his opinion such discussions would prove to
be helpful and worthy of the time so expended.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
62
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
A true cv of
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
the signed eng
26 Broadway,
recus
mm./V
FE:RCM:EJL
New York, New York. FE
12/31/34

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.98)
yle
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
McL
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
Tokyo.
fore beimcommunicated
FROM
to anyone. (b)
Dated January 4, 1935.
Received 6.04 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.6363/163
RUSH.1, January 4, 5 p.m.
Embassy's 286, Decemter 29, noon.
794.4323
One. Walden Parker and Goold of Standard Vacuum
Company arrived today from hangha1 and conferred with me
this afternoon. They are prepared for conference with Jap-
anese authorities as soon as it can be arranged, probably
early next week.
Two. Parker asked my advice as to whether the
Standard and Shell depresentatives should enter the con-
ference together. He favors this procedure fearing that
otherwise the Japanese, following their usual methods of
negotiating, will try to drive a wedge between the Ameri-
can and British interests.
FILED
Three. In this emergency the American and Bri-
tish Embassies are cooperating but not(repeat not) acting
jointly. As to the procedure of the companies, I said that
I was not able (repeab not) to give advice on this point, at
least without further thought.
F/G
Four. A united front and solidarity between the
companies would be manifested by their seeking simultaneous

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- 1, Jan. 4, 5 p.m. Toy.
and joint conference with the Japanese authorities. I see
no (repeat no) objection from this angle.
Five. Does the Department care to express an
opinion on this point and or instruct me, (a) to advise
affirmatively or, (b), to advise negatively or, (c), to
withhold advice?
GREW.
RR
HPD

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
1-188
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE
1-130
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Collect
Department of State
DPATNENT OF STATE
Charge to
Washinglon,
S
1935 JAN 4 PM 4 57
January 4, 1935.
This cable was sent ir confidential Code.
It sno: oe careruly paraphrased pefore
upm
AMEMBASSY,
DIVISIN
AND ALOURDS
2
Your 1, January 4, 5 p.m.
Department is inclined to the opinion that/British/
intarurt
and American o1l
should use/every opportunity (
to impress upon the Japanese Government/the fact that/they
are An complete accord and that they arel in this case!
unitad lyl.
894.6363/163
acting
Department) therefore(believes
that the special/representatives of, the American and
British/oil interests should (endeavor to arrange/for /
joint
conferences with the Japanese
authorities/
If you/concur, you may inform the American/oil
interests in the sense of/the foregoing,/emphasizing,
however/ that decision /in regard to this/matter/rests
with/theloil interestsand not repeat not with the
American Government.
894.6363/163
lin
mN
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
S01
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu -No. 50.
1—138

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.91)
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
NEW YORK
01
RECRIVED
January 3rd, 1935.
IAN
Reference:
LIVIDION OF
FE 894.6363/159/157
Fits
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
894.6363/164
Division of Far Eastern Affeils,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
A
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
PZ
This acknowledges vith áppreciation :our
three letters under dates of December 29th and 31st.
It is appurent thet whatever misunderstanding
existed in the minds of our representetives has now been
clarified as a result uf the action taken ty  a and the
American Ambessador at Tokyo.
The Department no doubt vill be interested to
know that Ir. Walden nd lir. Iurher heve left Shaighai and
are due to arrive in Yokoneme on Junuary 4th.
We presu: diseussiens viti. the Japanese of-
ficial wiil enste shortly cne it is antieipated that as
soon as anythin definite is derived rer. these discussions
we will be c bled currentiy, in whien ce se we shell be most
rleased to advise u or these develcp ents.
Sincerely
Nery D. bos
RFC:M
Kersey P. Jo.
F/G
