894.71 Japan, Post. (File 624)
ID: 894.71-624   Pages: 2   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.71-japan-post-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
DEC 1-1934
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS

SECRET

Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV 30 1934

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WEL

MEMORANDUM

We have received the following report from usually reliable sources:

"The program, recently announced by the Communications Ministry, in addition to providing for the extension of air mail routes, also provides for the training of civilian pilots, the improvement of flying facilities, and an increase in the number of civilian airplanes, all of which will be coordinated with army and naval aeronautics. The cost of the entire program, which will probably not be completed for a number of years, is estimated at Yen 100,000,000 of which Yen 20,000,000 will be required for the first stage of the development and Yen 2,800,000 of this amount will be budgeted for during the next fiscal year.

"The first stage includes the following eight projects:

1. A regular airmail service between Japan and Formosa, with Fukuoka and Taihoku the terminals. The Japan Air Transport Company has already made test flights that are said to have demonstrated that such a service is entirely feasible. It is proposed to make one flight each way weekly.

2. A new airmail service between Japan and Korea. Tokyo or Osaka will be made the Japanese terminal, and Rana, North Korea, the Korean terminal. This will enable a great saving in time for mail between Hysinking and Tokyo. Radio stations, Meteorological observatories and landing fields on islands in the Japan Sea will be required.

3. An airmail service between Tokyo and Pardo, the administrative center of the mandated islands in the South Seas. The route will be by way of the Bonin Islands.

4. An airmail service between Tokyo and Sapporo. Stops are planned at Sendai and Aomori.

5. An airmail service between Osaka and Kochi, or Shikoku, with a stop at Tokushima, on the east of Shikoku.

6. An airmail service between Osaka and Matsue, Shimane, Prefecture, on the Japan Sea.

7. An airmail service between Osaka and Nagano, by way of Toyama, on the Japan Sea.

8. An airmail service between Tokyo and Niigata, on the Japan Sea, by way of Nagano. It is presumed that this would supplant the present summer service provided by the Asahi Air Service Association.

The second stage, which is apparently reserved for some indefinite time in the future, has seven projects:

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -

1. A route from Taihoku, Formosa, to Singapore by way of the Philippine Islands and Borneo or the Dutch East Indies. This would link with the mail and passenger services by air to Europe.

2. A route between Sapporo and Saghalien.

3. A route between Sapporo and Kamchatka. This is intended as a counter-measure to the airmail service to Kamchatka maintained by the Soviet Government since last summer, and American airlines in Alaska, presumably in a defensive sense.

4. A circular route linking Tokyo, Nagano, Niigata, Akita, Aomori, Morioka, Sendai, Fukushima and Nito.

5. A route linking Niigata, Toyama, Kanazawa, Fukai, Tottori and Matsue, all on the Japan Sea.

6. A route between Tokyo and Shimonoseki, supplementing the present service between Tokyo and Fukuoka.

7. A route linking Fukuoka, Kumamoto, Kagoshima, Miyazaki and Oita all in Kyushi.

PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS, INC.
