894.76 Wireless Telephone. Broadcasting. Divided As 8**.73., January 3, 1945 - April 16, 1946 (File 1520)
ID: 894.76-1520   Pages: 41   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.76-wireless-telephone-broadcasting-8
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
4n
1945
DIVISION OF BARA
FFAIRS
R4)EIVED
JAN 4
JAN 8 1945
January 3, 1945
IVISION OF
HECORDS
JAN8- 19
U
Mr. drew:
Evidence that Saipan Radio 18 Successful. Federal
894.76/1
Communications Commission's announcement reports that
beginning January 1, 1945 the schedule of Japanese home
broadcasts was revised for the stated'purpose of allowing
the people to retire earlier and to preserve radio
-345
batteries. People are most urgently requested to turn
off their radios after the conclusion of the final night
program.
Comment. This urgent plea apparently is the best
indication of the success of the American radio station
now operating on Saipan. This radio station starts trans-
mitting immediately after the conclusion of the Japanese
night programs.
894.76
AN
CS/D
6.1945
JA:Kullgren:KMB
DCR- NE Unit
1-345
4nal.
RPV.
Cat.
D

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
BRITISH EMBASSY,
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
September 18th, 1945
fil
Dear Dick,
I send you herewith a memorandum regarding
the desire of our Government to have certain B.B.C. pro-
grammes (in Japanese and English) rebroadcast over the
Japanese internal broadcasting system.
I do not know whether the rebroadcasting
suggested would necessarily involve any British partici-
pation in the control exercised over the Japanese home
00
broadcasting system, though our authorities seem to
6
think that it would, and instruct us to put a request
4
for such participation before you. Perhaps you will take
this point into consideration also, but it seems to me
7
that the important thing, from our point of view, is to
9
arrange if possible for the technical procedure of pick-
1
ing up and relaying in Japan the B.B.C. broadcasts in
6
question.
18
I am afraid that I do not understand these
matters very well, and should be grateful if, should you
4
require further explanation, you would get into touch
5
with Mr. Terence Harman (at this Embassy, Extension 36)
who is in charge of the residuum of our former Polit ical
Warfare Mission. He would be happy to call upon you at
any time.
Yours very sincerely,
894.76
G.B. Sansom
DOB NE UA
C
221
S
E. R. Dickover, Esq.,
/MAJ
Washington. D.C.
BF
-1845
J1.2
DI8

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Proposal for Rebroadcasting certain British Broadcasting
Corporation Programmes over the Japanese domestic network.
1.
Among the media of public information in Japan
which have, as recently announced, been taken under the
control of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
is the Japanese internal broadcasting network. Subject
to his supervision, programmes carried by this network
continue up to the present, it is believed, to be pro-
vided exclusively from local resources; but it may no
doubt also be envisaged that some part of these programmes
will be furnished in the future, as is the case for
Germany, by relays from Allied-controlled tranemitters
outside the country.
2.
Among the Allied radio services today directed
towards Japan is that of the Britiah Broadcasting Corpo-
ration, originated in London. This service will, it is
hoped, shortly be expanded. Meanwhile, it includes pro-
granmes scheduled daily fron 1100 hours to 1130 hours
GMT, which H.M. Government desire to see rebroadcast
over the internal network of Japan, provi ing there are
no operational objections to doing so.
3.
H.M. Embassy would the refore be grateful if the
desire of His Majesty's Government, as described above,
coulā be made known to the appropriate authority and
brought to the attention of the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers in Japan.
The British Embassy,
Washington, D.C.
18th September, 1945

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: September 20, 1945
SUBJECT:
Radio Programs in Japan
Sir George Sansom, British Embassy
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Erle R. Diokover
FW 894.76/9-
COPIES TO:
1—1408
18
Sir George Sansom called at 1l: 30 at my request.
45
I referred to his note of September 18, 1945 and the
attaohed memorandum, regarding the desire or the British
BroadoastingCorporation to have some of its programs re-
broadcast over the Japanese domestic network. I told
Sir George that, after consulting with the War Depart.
10
ment and OwI, I had ascertained that the control of
the Japanese radio broadoasting system is entirely in
the hands of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
and that no government agenoy in Washington exeroises
RR841.
any control over the programs being broadoasted. I
said that as far as I knew, radio Tokyo was not re-
broadoasting programs, even from the United States, and
that there appeared to be no plan in Washington to have
CS/MAJ
such programs rebroadoast in Japan. I then suggested
that, under the ciroumstanoes, it might be best for the
British Government to take up this matter with the Allied
Supreme Commander through the British liaison officer
in Tokyo.
Sir George stated that he would convey this suggestion
to his government.
EP 241
20.14
19
Br
JA: ERDickover: MP

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
DC/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: December 18, 1945
DC/R
United States private company participation in
SUBJECT:
proposed Japanese broadcasting network.
Mr. Frank Russell, Vice President (in Washington)
PARTICIPANTS:
of the National Broadcasting Company
and
Mr. Harvey B. Otterman - TD
COPIES TO:
JA - Mr. Turner
file
8
394.76/12-1845
apo
1-1408
This morning Mr. Russell telephoned me on a
strictly informal basis to say that Mr. Niles Trammell,
President of the National Broadcasting Company,had
been approached by some unnamed party to see whether
NBC would be interested in joining in some manner with
a Japanese syndicate to establish a commercial long
wave radio broadcasting network in Japan to be known as
the Peoples' Broadcasting Company. The Japanese syndi-
cate is to be headed by one Yoshio Miyamoto who is
described as the head of the Electrical Wave Department
of the Japanese Board of Communications. Mr. Russell
stated that, disregarding entirely the economic phases
of the proposal, he would like to know what the Depart-
ment might think of a United States corporation join-
ing in such a venture. Mr. Otterman replied that it
would be better if Mr. Russell were to write a formal
letter to the Department about this and he stated that
he was not yet ready to do so but desired this informa-
894.76
tion on an entirely informal basis.
0
E
C
Mr. Otterman telephoned Mr. Turner of the Divisio
of Japanese Affairs and informed him of the inquiry. 
Mr. Turner stated that it would be highly desirable fos
12-1845
12
5
S
us
S/VJ
Cat

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
us to know from what source the proposal to NBC
emanated and how the proposal reached Mr. Trammell.
Mr. Turner also stated that General MacArthur would,
in any event, have to be consulted and that the De-
partment would express no view on the subject until
consultation with General MacArthur had been effected.
Mr. Turner expressed the view that General MacArthur
ought to know about this proposal and stated that it
should be suggested to Mr. Russell that the matter be
cleared with General MacArthur.
Mr. Otterman telephoned Mr. Russell today and was
informed that he had left for New York. The above in-
formation was given to Mr. Russell's secretary who
stated that she would inform him in New York City to-
morrow morning by telephone.
TD:HBOtterman:reh
K

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
February 27, 1946
Mr. Frank A. Bohuler, Jr.,
Chier, Japan and Korea Branch, OIC
Social Beourity Building, Room 3027,
894.76/2-2746
Fourth and Independence Avenue.
SUBJECT: Transmitting Preliminary Report on
Radio Broadoasting in Japan.
The War Department has requested that the attached
document be transmitted to you.
It would be appreciated if you would confirm
delivery.
CS/V
894.76
FC:KAnderson: CMW
2
-2746

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.91)
DC/R ROUTING SLIP
FROM ToR
372
1JA
ACTION:
2TD
1TRC
201C
1PA
26
10 Copse.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN-SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, April 15, 1946.
No. 372
SUBJECT:
Periodic SCAP Report: "Radio Analysis
DC/R
The Officer in Charge has the honor to refer to this
Offices Despatch No. 174, January 7, 1946, on the subject:
"Daily Analysis of the Japanese Press Prepared by General
Headquarters, SCAP" and to forward six copies of issue No. 1,
April 10, 1946, of a similer "Radio Analysis".
X8740.00119
safar
This report, prepared by the Media Analysis Division,
Civil Informetion and Education Section, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, is intended to give a summary of the
content and trends of Japanese voice radio broadcasting, which
is under SCAP supervision. It is understood that it will be
issued at irregular intervals, when material of interest
justifies and limited personnel of the reporting unitpermits.
This Office will attempt to continue to forward it to the
Department. Unless otherwise instructed, three copies will
be merked for the Division of Japanese Affairs (JA) and three
for the Office of Research Intelligence (ORI).
/4-1546
In addition to the "Radio Analysis", this Office is now
for-arding regularly to the Department (in six copies with
distribution indicated as above) the following periodic reports
of the SCAP Media Analysis Division: Press Analysis (daily);
Prefectural Press Analysis (semi-weekly); Publications Analysis
(semi-weekly).
Frecncard
Enclosure:
(Text or do prich)
S
"Radio Analysis", No. 1
April 10, 1946 (six copies)
JUN 2 7 1946
FILED
Original and tectograph to Department
891
Cn
JJService:ms
COF VF Unit
946 AR 24
Ana
H.1
2a
Cat
Dist.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 372 dated April 15, 1946, from
the Office of the United States Polltical Adviser,
Japan, on the subject "Periodic SOAr Réport: "Radio Amalyes
RADIC ANALYSIS. 10 April 1946
No. 1
Special Report (n Electicn Specches; 14 March - 9 April, 1946
It would be inpractical to ccver all the pulitical parties that have been
presented in the present elections. With cver 260 parties and a figure of
2,783 as the total number of candidates, the sum-picture appeared ccnfused.
Actually, as the general election chart shows, it resolved into the usual
wcrld wiie pclitical rattle of right and left with the middle-path parties in
greatest strength.
In typical Eastern fashion, the greatest number of speakers were in the
nen-partisan grcur. These spe*ches in the main were excellent examples of
the flowerlike, incense-bedecked, criental absurdities which are excellent in
dreams and useless in elections. There place cannet be deni-d, however, as
an iniication of the advancement necessary to be made in Japenese thought. if
future elections are tc have velue.
There were, in addition to this lerge non-partis n group, a ccllection
of minor parties which, while unfortunately containing several truly repre-
sentative farmers', miners', and sundry grcups, in the summatin were merely
more crystallized examples of the Lady Muraseki's pcetic tradition.
The follewing ere summaries of speeches by members of each of the major
political perties and their radio-stated platforms which when compered with
cther modia will cid in clarifying the present political situation.
The political bronic sting begen on l4 Merch and wes completed on e April.
During this period, there were 168 party speeches and 810 candidate speeohes.
This report was prepared from sampling speeches, which were transmitted througi
the Tckye Central and its jurisdictional stations, namely Megano, Niigata, and
Kofu. The districts cevered by these stati ns pre Tokyo First:, Tokyo Second.
Kanagawa Prefecture, Chiba Prefecture, Saitame Prefecture, Gumma Prefecture,
Toshigi Prefecture, Ibaragi Pr fecture, Magane Prefecture: Niigata Prefecture
and Yamanashi Prefecture lecterol districts.
528 candidates spoke over the radic in the Tokyo area. Spe ches by 31
cendidates were retransmitted by transcristion. Thus, the total number of
broadcasts in the Tokyo eree wes s59. There were 15l candid tes who spoke over
the radic in Negeno, Niigate and Kofu, but 2ol speeches were tra nsmitted, as
some cendidates made more then one soech.
Frogressive, Liberel. Sccielist, Jommunist, Constitutionel Yosei, Reform-
ist, Cooperative and the New Jepen parties pres nted their political views
through their representetives. Th se oerties mede l22 originel speeches. The
total numb r was l68, beccus: some parties made sev rel transcription broad-
casts.
Severel pericds of the broadcasting dey were devoted to the pclitical rect
Under the first, transmission time was iven both for policy-statement poli-
ticel spe ches end for the speeches of candidetes. The second transmission
deelt mainly with the lstter. Each of the major parties and many of the less-
er nown groups hed opsortunities to speak. The following is a sample day on
the regular transmission schedule.
Election Hour Progrem for Apr. 2 Tues.. 1946 (Tokyo)
lst Transmission
-1 -

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
Pcliticel Parties' Hour
6.3 e.m.
Nippon Communist Party
Kentero Yamabe
Nippon Co-oneretive Party
Taku Koizumi
2.3 p.m.
Constitutional Justice Party
Senzo Shimezaki
Nippon Revolutionlist Party
Kikuo Miseve
9.00
Nippon Socialist Perty
Yoshimi Sunage
Nippon Liberel Party
Candidates' Hour
0.50 p.m.
(Cribr-Ken)
Shinji Shoji
(Scistn-kinro-kei)
Srkee Fujite
(Non Pertisrn)
Genbu Yushino
(Fermers' Democratic)
Terasu Tomita
(Liberel)
Teisuke Aoki
(Progressive)
Fumie Fosaku
(Non Partison)
Shinscku Fukuchi
(Pregressive)
Masatako Tokohara
(Liberal)
4.30
(Ibaragi-Ken)
Shoichi Deitoku
(Minto)
Chuei Onose
(Progressive)
Tokuya Vatanabe
(Liberal)
Senjiro Hateya
(Liberr1)
6.30
(S-itsma-Ken)
Hiromichi Okede
(Non Partis-n)
Fumio Taguchi
(Pregressive)
Yoshic Matsuyama
(Progressive)
Susumu Miyamae
(Progressive)
2nd Transmission
6.c0r.m.
(Tokye lst District)
Chuzabure Miure
(Progressive)
Seisoku scki
(Liberel)
Sanzo Noseka
(Communist)
Giichi Yamegishi
(Jorld Peace)
6.30
(Tokyc 2nd District)
Kiseburi Horiuchi (Constitutionel Justice)
Shinichirc Nekenc (Lebor)
Giichi Maruyame
(Lehcr)
Sedch i Kiuchi
(Liberr1)
Giichi Hirei
(Indenendent Socialist)
Political Ferty Members
PAnTY
NEI
PRESHET IN DIET
EX-DIET
TCTAL
LIBER-L PARTY
38
13
43
484
PR GRESSIVE PARTY
334
17
24
375
S CIAT IST PARTY
305
7
16
328
C. MMUNIST PARTY
144
144
COOPERATIVE PARTY
2
1
93
Y.SEI PARTY
45
45
THER PARTIES
523
1
3
527
NON-PARTISANS
773
3
11
787
2,642
43
98
2,783
-2-

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
Women Candidates: 82
GANDIDATE BROADCASTS
Stations
No. of
No. of Re-broadcasts.
No. of
Candidates
by Transcription
Broadcests
TOKYO
Toky? lst Dct.
108
108
Tokyo 2nd Det.
121
121
Kanagawa
62
62
Chiba
60
一
Saitama
52
52
Gumma
40
12
52
Tochigi
38
14
52
Ibaragi
47
5
52
(Total of Tokyo
Station)
528
31
559
Nagano
*
68
84
Niigata
56
82
Kohfu
31
85
155
0
251
TOTAL
683
31
810
Note:
Candidetes of local stetions made broadcast twice or more but
ech time with different scripts.
LIBERAL PARTY
The Libersl Party through it: principal speakers, Ichiro Hatoyame: Jiro
Hoshijime. Shigeyo Takcuchi. Hiroshi Ashide, and Tomejiro Okubo - presented the
following platforem:
There mist be a solute sup cort of the Emperor System. It is a part of Jap-
anese life. Also complete supuort must be given to the Constitution.
Women of Japan heve the right to vote and it is the hove of the Liberal Pa
ty that it will be exercised wisely.
In order that Jepan mey have a higher standerd of living. the Liberal Part.
urged thet the Jepanese people coopcrnted with one another for greater produc-
tion. Moreover, e united front of all Conservative democratic parties should
be formed to prevent the country from plunging into ruin.
The existence of & lerge number of perties was spid to be conducive to the
rise of "Hitlers". Politicsl stebility would prevent the Communists from gain-
ing control of the government.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
The Liber'1 party desired  peace pact drawn up with the Allied Powers, but
snid thet  truthful dischrrge of the Potsdem Declaretion should take precedence,
Once this is done Jepon c'n look forward to & fresh strrt mong the peece-lob-
ing netions of the world.
JAPAN PROGRESSIVE PARTY
The Progressive Party through its principel speakers, Stdskichi Hitotsumats
Tekro Saito, Tedeo Tanabe, Kumao Iwami, Hisnshi Metsui, Isemu Nerushime end Take.
Y-mamoto, summed up its platform as follows:
The spenkers, first of ll, seid that nationl charocteristics must be pro-
tected, democracy must be brought bout, nd responsible politics must be hesed
on the Diet.
Secondly, the Progressive P rty gueranteed the livelihood of 1l the people
by respecting the liberty of iniividu-ls nd by providing for the public welffre
through incrersed production end  just nd foir method of distribution. World
pesce would b. iced it this could be rccomplished.
In orcer to insure Jrpen's rise from defent, the J-oenese people should vot.
The spe kers went on to sey thot the people ere now in a misereble stete of
affrirs bicruse of the difficulty of obt ining clothing. fooc nd shelter. This
ws brought bout by  cert in inividual who didn't listen to public opinion.
The wer was entered into recklessly. The enemy wes underestimeted while Japen-
ese strength wes overestim ted. If the public hed ha ny voice in the matter.
there woula not have been such : c t: strophe.
Kumo Iwemi pointe out thet Jrpan w's deferter solely because of her pover.
ty in scientific knowlef e. The burerucr ts were responsible for thet deficiency
The Proressive perty, he rcced voulc throw out all the old and unwise customs
and stress th? te chin: of the sciences in the schools.
The sue-hers s' ia thot the gloripus prt of victories in the Sino-J penese
in' Russo-Jep nese ars is ende. Jopanese t-rritory hes been cut down to helf
n the nation crnnot co nything in oolitic:l, economic ena other fiels unless
told to o so by the Alliec Pov rs. However, the Jrornese peoole must not lose
frith in buil ing New Jopen.
With Jrp-n's scceptence of the Potsirm Declrr tion, the J-panese militerist:
heve discovere? their mist kes. However, the J p nese people must reconstruct th
netion with the greet hope of tokins n importont pert in worla perce.
The responsibility of the  ministr tion is very grert in  critic-l time
such es this, becruse the people have to be ble to live ni it is up to the a-
ministrotor to work out mersures to insur  livelihoof.
The Pr  ressive Party will try to:
(2)
Colve the fosa pr blem.
(2)
Increrse pro uction on import fertiliz r.
(3)
Give employment to the jobless.
(4)
Help the wr-sufferers.
(5)
Give better trentment to ffici ls n: ener'l w rkers.
(6)
Funa ment-lly impr ve the e uc-ti nel system.
(7)
Increrse the privile es f women.
(e)
Ist tlish : s und n:ti n-1 ec n my n. supp rt the Tenno System wit)
C nstituti nr1 M narchy.
The sue kers bl'ste: the C mmunist P:rty for the 1rtter's rejectin of the
Tenn: System en' s-ic thet it is aeinst the will of the people to reject the
Tenno System.
In referring to the S cirlist Prrty, the Pr ressives terme it quarrelsome
and medlesome.
-.4.-.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
The Proressive Party will go into office for the sake of the people. The
party will strive to restore Japen to a plece of honor and trust emong the na-
tins of the worl.
SOCIALIST PARTY
The Socialist Party through its principal speakers, Kyo Hare, Yoshio Ma-
tsunage, Tekeshi Hars, Zengor) Shimagomi, presented the following as their plat
form:
The Emperor System should be decided by the people. It is possible to have
a democratizea Tenn, System in e cemocratic state.
The speakers faile to t-ke ny definite position in regard to the consti-
tution.
In administrative metters:
(1) Prefecturrl governore shouli be electe by the people.
(2) Public utilities shoula be controlled by the government.
Concerning the food pr blem, the Soci:lists believed that the fermer must
be freed from his bonds to the lond-lori. After this is done the crop yield
will increase: They proposed to ccomplish this by:
(1) Putting producti n of fertilizer under government control end hev-
ing imme iste aelivery of the fertilizer to the farmer.
(2)
Mrking tenant formers independent.
(3) Opening new farm 1 nds.
In referring to finence, the perty cvocetec the abolition of the income
tex. They clnimed the 5co Yen nonthly cll wance male life dif-icult enough
without having t) pay an income tex. Moreover, the overnment shsuli stabilize
prices an? increase procuction in order to check inflotin.
Finally they clnimed thot laborers shoul organize in order to insure fi-
nancial security for themselves.
The C cielist Party toik e cefinite ston for women suf rage.
THE COMMUNIST PARTY
The Communist Party through its principal sperkers, Yoneko Cmachi,'Ritsu
Ito. Eiichi Iwate; Srnzo Nosaka, Kyuichi Tokuca, Takechiyo Uchino. Yoshio Shiga
and Kentero Yomebe, summe up its pletforn in the following menner:
The speakers were ageinst the Emperor System. They felt that the emperor
was resp nsible for the war n sh uld say so. He issued en Imperial Rescript
praising success at Perrl Harbor. If he cidn't know enything about the war, he
should be remove: es sn incapeble ruler. If the people eround him started the
war, whet is there to stop other pesple from settine eround him leter on end
sterting nother wer? The Commnists belioved the pe ple should decide by re-
ferenöum shether the. Emperor steys or es.
The Commnist Party id not favor the constitution creft beceuse they seid
that it is a mere written document draftec by former militarists pnd members of
the Zaibatsu. These constitution makers ciscuise thenselves in the cloeks of
Democrecy.
D.
Moresver, the constitution is vasue in much of its phraseolpey.. The mili-
terists have not as yet been taken out of power under the constitution. The
reference in the constitution t, "the Imperial Linee e" is very much like the
materiel which the Militarists utilized before.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
The constitution should state clearly that the highest authority is the
people and the rights of the people should be cleerly defined.
There were severel changes in the present government setup the Communists
shoul? like to see brought ebout. They were es follows':
(1) Confiscstion of all lands owne by the Imperial Household, Zaibetsu
an.militaristic and distribution of them to the peasants so that
the peasants can grow more crops.
(2)
Exposure of the hiien stores of rice, The Zribatsu is making worse
the critic:l situetion in Jrpan by cornering foodstuffs to gain
weelth. Their cepital shpuld be frozen and all profits which they
obtrined during the war sh uld be taken swey from them and used for
the commin welfare. This will help to check inflation..
(3)
Creation of the Diet as the leading covernmental branch, thereby mak
in: the government a government of the people and not one by the Em-
peror for the capitalists and the military.
(4.)
Increase of production as a check to inflation. A wey to do this
is to have  People's Deliberative Council composed of labor unions,
ngricultural orcenizati ns nd  Pe ple's Foodstuff Committee. This
should help the fod pr blen.
(5)
Devel pment of foreign traie with Kirea, China and other Criental
countries. This crn be br ught about only by rem ving cll the mi-
litarists end cepitelists from government pffices. Cur oriental
neighb rs will not trade with us if we continue to heve in office
those cespicsble persons wh, wege wer.
(6)
The Government sh ul" sive fertilizers and farming equipment to the
farmers so they con incrense their crop procuction.
(7)
Formatin of tr de unions which will see to the increese of produc-
tion for the hoppiness of the peoole ond not for the pr fits of the
cepitalists.
(8) All banks sh ula be unite into one managed by farmers and laborers.
(9)
The people should be ble t, recall nny state ninister; judges must
be elected by the people en: the Diet menbers sh uld make a report
to the electors.
The C mrunists said thet w men sh uld have en equel v ice in the govern-
ment, The y uth of the country elso be given  chence t, v ice their opinions
In reference t other political parties, the C nmunists said. that the
Progressive Perty is the f rmer Minsei Party ona the Liberel Perty is the
former Seiyukai Party. They simply cisguise themselves under new names.
The minor parties heve nothins worthwhile to ffer and are not worth an
examination.
These principal speakers for the Communist Party state, however, that
their party doesn't promise anythin: which is iupussible to achieve. Also
their perty is the only party which hasn't a sin le war-criminal as a candid-
ete. More ver, it acv cates a bl aless rev lution to rec nstruct Japan end
make her a member in the society of peace-loving nati ns.
NIPPON COOPERATIVE PARTY
This party was congerned primarily with representing the theory of the
formation of cooperatives for the various egricultursl ereas throughout Jep-
an. However it aamifted e greater plen: the use of the cooperative system
in industry es & solution to the replrcement of the Zaibatsu.
- 6 -

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
All politicel and social prejudice must be secondary to the prime purpose
of securing enough fosd for the people. The cooperatives, both urban and ru-
rel, can set up a feeling of responsibility to one enother which will expedite
the interchange of foodstuffs and manufactured goods. The cooperatives will
operate from the small unit of about five families on up.. The Emperor will be
supported and a spirit of cooperation will exist between him and the ooopera-
tive unions. Unemployment, mining, reconstruction of cities, etc., were all
considered but the food situation is the first problem to be solved by the peo-
ple as represented by the Cooperative Party, "We must face the situation with
the spirit of live and die together." (Y. Ishii Mar. 30)
RIKKEN YOSEI PARTY
The Rikken Yosei Party was possibly the most conservative political force
in the elections. It advocated a system called Emperor Politic. "the com-
plete identity of the Emperor and the People." It is the ancient policy of com-
plete devotion to the "selfless, unimpeachable spirit of the Emperor" - follow-
ing logicelly that these adjectives will plso govern the political trend of the
party that adheres to the Emperor. Further, set as it is in this Emperor polic:
the perty is completely ethnocentric. The culture of real Japan must be encou-
raged in art, drama, literature, in the place of the woman in the home, in the
meintenence of things, Jepenese. However the good of the Western World must al-
so be used in order thet Japen mi:ht progress.
Finally - "Our duty is to follew the Emperor rnd protect the Emperor. In
accordance with this principle, we prectice politics, monifesting the spirit
end justice of the Emperor". (Kenshi Nnomure, March 14)
Name of Political Parties & Groups Represented on Redio
E.
Bankoku Hakuei perty
Boso Farmers Liberal party
Buddhist party, Japan
C.
Communist party, Japan
Constitutional Tomin party
Constitutional Yosei party
Consitutinal Labor party
S.
Socialist party, Japan
Shinbei League
Shinbei Hakuai Kinro party
Shin Nippon Seinen party
Shakai Seisan prty
Seinen Taishu party
Seiso Shinshin party
Seinen Liberal party
Social Democratic party
Seikei Kenkyu party
Seiron party, Japan
Shinsei Liberal party
Shakai Minshu party
Shinjin party
Saitama Farmers Kakushin party
Shin Nippon Democratic party
Seisa Kinro party
Sekai Renpo party
Sucial Labor party
Shakai Kyogaku party
T.
Teachers Union
Taimin party, Japan
W.
World peace party
World Youth Doshi party, Japan
Y.
Yamanashi Jinmin Group
Young Men Progressive party
Youth perty, Japen
Z.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.94)
OFFICE CF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tekyo, Japaa, April 16, 1946
De/R
No. 376
relam
MAY1-1946
Mr
JH.
TE
HH
SUBJECT: Reports on Japanese Radio Broadca
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to
transmit under separate cover copies in triplicate of the
following reports of the Civil Information and Education
Section, General Headquarters, Suprene Commander for the
Allied Powers:
894.76/4-1646
"History of the Japanese Radio Industry"
March 8, 1946
"Supervision of the Broadcasting Industry" March 9, 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACCEIVED
"The Charter of the Broadcasting Corpor-
ation of Japan"
March 9, 1946
UN 1 3 1946
and Brief Biographical Notes on
Presidents and Appointed or
Elected Officials
March 15, 1946
These reports summarize the history of the Japanese radie
broadcasting industry, from its inception in 1923 to the pre-
JUN 24 1946
sent, and provide details of its organizational structure
FILED
and leading personnel.
IELECOMMUNICATIONS DIVISION
1946
Accompaniments:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Reports, as listed.
Original and hectograph to Department
4
876
JSService: jwb
CF
 Init
7 1948
Dist

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
ERALLLLDLUERPERBS
SUPRENE COLMANDER FOR TIE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and "ducation Section.
Research and Information Division
SPECIAL REPORT
Serial Number: RI-116-RA-A-1
8 March 1946
SUBJECT
: History of the Japanese Radio Industry
PRIPARED BY : Radio Research Unit
SOURCES
1. Radio Year Book (1932-1942).
2. Business Affairs t-tistics Manual.
3. A 20-years' History of the Radio Industry.
4. Broadcasting Corporation of Japan.
INCEPTION:
The radio industry in Japan was first organized as a result
of the issuance on 20 December 1923 of the "Regulations for
Wireless Telephones for Private Broadc sting" (Hoso Yo Shisetsu
Musendenwa Lisoku), in Communications Ministerial Order No. 98.
In view of the manner of operation and the nationel significance
of this infant industry, the government announced on 2 :ugust
1924 that a radio orgenization in the form of a juridical corpo-
ration would be instituted. In accordence with its expressed
desire to protect the impartiality of radio operation, and to
insure the fulfillment of its own nationel mission, the government
adopted a policy of strict supervision of the radio industry.
Subsequently the Tolyo Broadcasting Bureau (Shadan Hojin Tokyo
Hoso Kyokei) was established in November 1924.
-1-

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
RI-116-RA-A-1
The Nagoya and Osaka Bureaus respectively were organized in
January and February, 1924, nd were opened in June and July.
A temporary broadcasting station w=s set up in the newly
constructed librery of tre Tokyo Higher Technical School
(Tokyo Koto Kogei Gakko) in Shibaura, using pert of an outlying
building as the engineering room. The aerial tower of the Erect-
ric Laboratory of the Communications Ministry was made available,
and by 1 March 1925 preparations were completed for a test trans-
mission. This test was made on 22 March 1925, and on 12 July
actual broadcasting was begun for the first time in Japan. In
the same year tre Board of Directors approved a plan to establish
a permanent broadcnsting station in Atago Park, and in March the
Mayor of Tokyo granted permission to use this site.
The jurisdictional are of the Tokyo Bureau was to cover
the Konto district; the electric power used was to be one kilo-
watt; and the capitol put up for the establishment of the station
was ¥ 300,000.00. Subscriptions were first solicited in February,
1925. The first goel wes set at 10,000 subscribers within the
jurisdiction of the Tokyo Bureau, but in little more than a year
the number of licensed radio subscribers exceeded 150,O00. Thus
the importonce of the radio industry was gradually being recogni-
zed by both the public end the government. The mejority of licen-
sed radio subscribers, however, r e ncntra in the princip-l
cities where stations had been established, for the populeriz-
tion of tadio in the rural ereas far pway from these stations was
insufficient. Consequently, people in rurel areas began to demanc
the establishment of stetions to serve them.
4
-2-

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
RI-116-RA-A-1
NATIONAL ORGANIZATION:
In November, 1925, the Tokyo Bureeu proposed to the Communi
cations Ministry a plan for an interst-tion communications system
to be established either by wireless or by ground wire. The plan
provided that·small-power stations would operete independently,
but the centrals would furnish them materials. An expension of
the Tokyo Bureau was also proposed, as its one-kilowatt power wes
 inadequate since it required that listeners have the more expen-
sive two- or three-tube receivers. It was proposed that the
Tokyo Station's power be increased to ten kilowatts, enabling
listeners to use the less expensive sets. Fear was expressed in
some quarters, owever, that to establish independent broadcas-
ting stations in each aree might not only be disadvantageous
economically but might also ceuse a standstill in the collection
of broadc sting materials. To avoid these possibilities it wes
deemed more logical to have the broadc sting industry nationelly
centrelized and under the management of a solidly organized
foundation.
In -pril, 1926, the Communications Ministry proposed a Five-
Year Plan whereby three bureaus, namely the ones at Tokyo, Osak?,
and Nagoya, were m rged to form the present Broadcasting Corpora-
tion of Japan. These bureaus became the central stations in their
resp ctiva rons. Headquarters in Tovyo, and branches in Tokyo,
Oske, and Nagoya, were simulteneously set up. (See report on the
jurisdictional areas for each central.)
-3-

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
RI*116-RA-A-1
The Chugoku Central in Hiroshima, the Kyushu Central in
Kumamoto, the Tohoku Central in Sendei, and the Hokkeido Central
in Sapporo were estpblished in March, 1927. (See "Radio Stations
in Japan" for more detail.)
Since then the corporetion has devoted its energies to in-
creasing its facilities and transmission power, and expanding and
adjusting the interstation communications system. A nationwide
relay-net system was completed in 1928. The corporation has gra-
dually incre sed the number of stations, spreading them through-
out the country. By 1941 as meny as 45 redio stetions existed,
including those at Toyohara, Kar futo, and Palau in the South
seas. A gradual increase in the stations' electric power during
1928 affected Tokyo, Osaka, Hiroshima, Kumamoto, Sendai, and
Sapporo in succession. In April 1931 the Second Trensmission
Station began op:ration in Tokyo. Meanwhile, small-power stations
had been established in Kanezawa, Fukuoka, Okayama, Nagoya,
Shizuoka, Niigata, and Kokura, and in 1932, in Hakodate, Akita,
Matsuyama, Kochi, and Kyoto. The Second Transrission Station
began to operete in Ngoye and Osaka in 1933, while smaller sta-
tions were established in Mayebashi, Fukui, Hamamatsu, Tokushima,
Asahigawa, and Nagasaki.
INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION:
The expansion of activities required en expansion of manage-
ment. In an attempt to attain more, comprehensive operation, an
epoch-making reorganization was effected in May, 1934. Radio ex-
changes with other countries and with the territories outside of
-4-

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
·RI-116-RA-A-1-
Japan proper became more vigorous. Regular exchange broadcesting
with Manchukuo was begun in 1932, and in 1934 a reguler relay-
broadcrst connection was established with Teihoku, Taiwan.
Regular overseas transmission commenced in 1935, and the follow-
ing year regular relpy broadc-sts between Japan proper and cent-
ral China were inaugurated.
Stations were successively established in Obihiro, Yamagata,
Tottori, Miyazaki,.and Kofu. .High-powered transmission facilities
were completed in Tokyo and, in December 1937, s a result of the
completion of a 150-kilowatt station, the Mayebashi station wes
temporarily closed. The Radio Tokyo Building w hich together with
the new Os-ka St-tion Building was then considered the best in
Asia, was completed in 1939. The installation of a double trans-
mission facility helped to reveal tre effectiveness of the role
which the radio industry might play in Japan's extreordinary
crisis.
PROGRAM PLANNING:
As changes in national conditions at that time were turning
the attention of the people to radio more than ever, a great
renovation in the planning of progrems was effected in July 1939.
The First and Second Networks were respectively renemed the
"Nationwide Broadcast" and the "Urban Broadcast". The former
would carry programs appealing to the general public, while the
latter would trensmit programs of special interest to people in
the urban areas, particulary those in Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya.
- 5-

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
RI-116-RA-A1
Organization of the programs was to be handled by the
Broadcast Rregrams Grganization Council (Hoso Shingi Kai), and
the Broadcast Programs Examination Council (Hoso Bangumi Hensei
Kai). Through these agencies the cooperation of government and
civilian experts in each field wes enlisted. . In July 1939 the
Current Situation Brondc st Planning Council (Jikyoku Hoso Kikaku
Lyogi Kai) wes estrblished. Thus every possible effort was mede
to plan programs, by utilizing the cooperetion of the Information
Borrd and by discussing plons submitted by sections.
Branch offices of the Broadcasting Deliberation Council
(Toe Hoso Kyogikai) wore est-blished in the Radio Tokyo Building
by representatives of brordc-sting orgenizations in China, Man-
chukuo, Taiwan, nd Chosen, through which close coordination
with those countries was mainteined.
In December 1940, in order to stimulate publicity and the
collection of informetion essential to the prosecution of natio-
nal pol'cies, the government established the Board of Informa-
tion, thereby expanding and strengthening the Cabinet's Infor-
mation Division (Naikaku Jyoho Bu). Thus, although the techni-
cal supervision of the broedcsting industry was retained by the
Communications Ministry as in former years, program supervision
was taken over by the Board of Information; but certain impor-
tant matters were handled jointly. To implement its aim of.
fullest cooperation with the government, the Brodc sting Cor-
poration of Japan concerned itself with the establishment of a
domestic relay system, the installetion of facilities for the
-6 -

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
RI-116-RA-A-1
Greeter East Asietic Reley Service, and the expansion of its
overseas broadcasting facilities.
OVERSEAS BROADCASTING ACTIVITIES:
In April 1940 a broedc st speech by Germen Foreign Minis-
ter Ribbentrop on the European situation was relayed, end in
March nd egain in September of the following yent, correspon-
dents of Tokyo Mainichi, Tokyo sahi, Yomiuri, and Domei made
radio reports on "Prevailing European Conditions" from Berlin,
Rome, and London. These exchonge broadcasts impressed listen-
ers deeply. On 29 January 1941, the "Japan-Italy Brodcasting
Pact", inaugurating monthly exchenge brondc-sts with Italy, was
signed.
At first, coverage of the ralay broadcasts from Menchukuo,
Chosen, end Taiwan was only eight hours daily, but it was exten-
ded to thirteen hours drily on 1 Januery 194l. These programs
were known as the "GEA Relay Broadcsts".
Expanded overseas bro dcasting was inaugureted on 1 June
1940, with programs in twelve languages bermed in seven direc-
tions, and, when the instollation of shortwave transmission
facilities was completed, programs in sixteen longunges were
beamed in twelte directions. Thirteen transmissions were made
deily, covering a total of forty hours each week.
PRESENT ORGANIZATION:
There ere et present eight central stations end thirty-
five finger stations spread throughout the country. (See
map-chart.) There are three national networks, in use as
-7-

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
RI-116-RA-A-1
follows: the First and econd Networks both trensmit programs
for the Japanese audience, while the Third Network, which hes
been taken over by the Allied Powers, makes transmissions inten-
ded for the occupation forces. The First Network has forty-three
stations and transmits fifteen hours daily. The Second Network
has eight stations, and covers major cities such as Tokyo, Osaka,
Nagoya, Kumamoto, Sendai, Hiroshima, Matsuyoma, and Sapporo
Its transmission is limited to four hours of the evening. The
Third Network is used exclusively by the US armed forces (Armed
Forces Radio Service), operating nine stations and covering
sixteen hours dily.
NUMBER OF SUBSCRIBERS AND RECEIVING SETS:
The totel number of licensed radio subscribers in May 1940
was 5,000,000; a year later the figure had grown by more than
 million, and indic-ted that forty-one per cent of Japanese
families were suhecribers. The gcsl of the. Japanese
radio industry is to realize the slogan, "A national flag and
a radio receiver in every home". Letest avilable information
shows that on 31 March 1945 the total numbor of 1icensed radio
subscribers wns 7: 473,688, or 50.4% of =17 of the f-milies in
the country. (See bosic statistics on licensed radio subscri-
bers.) The number of subscribers nccording to information
furnished by the Board of Inforrntion, however, is 8,422,547;
but this numeric-l differcnce is probobly due to the fact that
the surveys were mode at different times.
- 8 -

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
RI-116-RA-A-1
It is reported that about 1,844,547 listeners were killed,
injured, or left homeless in the Allied eir reids, and numerous
sets were certainly destroyed; consequently the actual number
of subscribers is probably much smaller than that given here.
Finel figures, however, are not available at present.
There is no available figure for the number of redio recei-
ving sets. Evidently the Broedcnsting Corporation of Japan did
not pay much attention to figures on the production of radio
parts or on the number of receivers in the country, being solely
concerned with the number of licensed subscribers. Not even the
government is able to furnish this data. We must, therefore,
rely on the Radio Receiving Sets Distribution Company (Radio
Jyushinki Tosei Gaisha), a semi-governmental agency under the
Commerce and Industry Ministry which began in 1943 to supervise
the distribution f redio receivers throughout the country.
Manufactured redio receivers were subsequently shipped to this
company from all over the country, and it in turn distributed
them in accordance with the quotas assigned to the centrals.
(See data on radio receiving sets distributed between 1 October
1943 and 1 Jonuary 1946.) This firm is thus able to give us 
partial picture of receiver distribution.
According to its information, 72,864 sets were menufactured
during 1944 nd 1945, of which 68,936 were distributed and 4,700
kept in stock. The sets in stock could be used immediately,
they claim, if tubes re sup leed. Put since great numbers of
sets are manufactured without being reported to the government,

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
RI-116-RA-A-1
this organization's facts cannot be eccepted with complete
confidence. Actually it is almost impossible to tabulete the
number of receiving sets in the country. Nor does it help to
have the figures on licensed subscribers, for the licenses
provide that subscribers may own two or more sets (although
the Boærd of Communications declares that the Japanese people
are not well enough off economically to afford extra sets).
An estimate made by the Board of Informetion gives 5,743,000
as the probable number of receiving sets still in usable con-
Cition. (See Survey of Radio Receiving Sets.)
-10-

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED. POWERS
Civil Infornation and Education Section
Research and Information Division
TRANSLATION
Serial Number: RI-(T)-13-RA-2
9 March 1946
SUBJECT
8
Supervision of the Broadcasting Industry
TRANSLATED BY:
Radio Research Unit on 9 Merch 1946.
SOURCE
"Recent Broadcasting Industry", pages 94-101,
8
published in Tokyo, April, 1932, by the Broadcasting
Corporation of Japan.
1. CONTROL OF THE RADIO INDUSTRY
The organization, the management, and the general form of the
broadcasting industry. are different in each country of the world.
One factor stands out as a colnon trend, however: all countries are
attemptins in one way or another to consolidate their control of the
radio industry.
In our countr, the managenent of the doiestic radio industry is
onopolized by tne Broadcasting Corporation of Japan. There is no
doubt that control of the ralio industry in conformity with the national
broadcastin; po icy can be most securely maintained by a monopolized
management.
The broadcastin; industr, requires an experienced business nanage-
ment to achieve its function, the transnission to the general public of
news, ausi., an other kinds of broadcasts, throuh the establishnent
and operation of wireless telephone fa ilities. In other words, this
is an industry which has as its objective the perfornance of a type of
co munications, by the emplo ment of wireless telephone. Hence no
broadcastin3 can exist independentl, of wireless telephone, and
-1-

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
RI-(T)-13-RA-2
the activities of the industry cannot be. considered without the em-
ployment of the instrunent. The broadcasting industry is, in short.
the wireless telephone industry.
The basis for the national policy in regard to the wireless tele-
phone industry in our country is clearly defined in Article One of the
"Wireless Telephone Law", which declarea that "the government shall
supervise wireless telephone", and which clarifies the government policy
of naking the radio industry a nationally managed monopoly. This law
does provide in Article Two, however. that a private wireless telephone
industry may becone an exception to governnent control, under certain
stipulated conditions which might arise in connection with various
facilities. In this way the basis was laid for akiny our broadcasting
industry a givilian ativity.
II. SPECIAL PERMISSION FOR THE INDUSTRY
The basis for civilian management of the radio industry in our
country is found in Clause Six of Article Two of the Vireless Telephone
Law, which provides that a wireless telephone, if it is recognized as
essential by a responsible Minister of the State, can be privately
operated within the limitations of a license. The fact that the es-
tablishment of a vireless telephone facility by the Broadcasting
Corporation of Japan is specially recognized as such, is a result of
various considerations noted by the Colaunications Minister. This
established wireless telephone facility eceived a grant of permission,
in accordance with the "Regulations for Private Wireless Telephone
Facilities for Broadcasting".
- 2 -

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
RI-(T)-13*RA-2
What circunstances, then, have played a determining role in
giving the broadcasting industry in our country a civilian management,
and in bringing about the recognition of a privately established wire-
less telephone for broadcasting? These facts can be laid mainly to
the difference between the management of the broadcasting industry.
and that of the ordinary wireless co munications industry. The latter
was brought under the national management because it was felt that
various administrative and financial factors might obstruct the speedy
ompletion of plans for the radio industry. The reason for adopting
a form of semi-civilian managenent for the former, is that the collec-
tion of broadcasting materials and soli citin of subscribers can be
carried out nore conveniently by civilians.
In re ognition of the fact of civilian nanagement in the broad-
casting industry, it seemed better to have the wireless telephone
facilities for consumers operated privately. This, however, grávely
endangered the principle of national management. Should such an
exceptional industry be expanded too extensively, not only might it
dause great change in the system of private facilities, but it might.
also conplicate the responsibilities of the owners of facilities and
cause a loosening of national control. The fact that the "Regulations
for Private Wireless Telephone Facilities for Broadcasting" divide
the wireless telephones employed in broadcasting into two categories:
"broadcasting wireless telephones", and "receiving wireless telephones".
and that two different sets of regulations were provided, is due to the
aforementioned apprehensions.
Persons who manage the broadcasting industry are considered as
-3-
a

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
RI-(T)-13-RA-2
having the same legal status as those who provide facilities, and must
abide by the Wireless Telephone Law and all orders issued in accordance
with it. They have full responsibility for the satisfactory functioning
of all facilities which come under the jurisdiction of said law, and
may only act within the supervision of the State. On the other hand.
the scope of the management of the industry is not limited to the
simple operation of vireless telephone facilites. Since its operations
have a direst bearing on a great number of wireless telephone subscribera,
the reeponsibility of the management of the broadcasting industry must
be deemed greater than that of persons who have privately established
wireless telephones, for the former group as been expressly permitted
to anage the activities and facilities of an industry which in truth
should be under the control of the government.
III. MONOPOLY OF THE INDUSTRY
The vuestions of who should be permitted to establish facilities
for broadcasting by wireless telephone, and whether the national broad-
casting industry should be monopolized by one organization, must be
considered in the lignt of the special permissions granted in connection
with the governmental central industry.
hat forn vould be the most appropriate for the executive body of
the broadcasting industry, exclusive of the national management? In
consideration of the acivities an? influence of this industry. its form
must enable it to attain the most efficient managenent. Since the broad-
casting industry possesses great powers of dissemnation and penetration,
its influence on the cultural life of the nation is very extensive.
-4

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
RI-(T)-13-RA-2
Only an organization which is able to totally and industriously devot
its efforts to the improvement and expansion of its business facilitaes
and to the just and impartial management of its business affairs, while
maintainins perfect control over its members, can be entrusted with the
management of this industry.
The permit was therefor granted to a groadcastins organization
which was knon to be non-profit-seeking, and solely concerned with the
management of this specific industry.
In regard to the matter of entrusting the broadcasting industry
to one sody, it should be considered that a single system of organization
has the greatest likelinood of fulfilling the expressed mission of the
industry, In short, a monopoly group would be able to promote and
expand business without increasing the financial burden of subscribers;
but witn due regard for their benefit. It also would be able to es-
tablish itself in pernanent operation with a firn foundation; as a
kind of public utility. Furthermore, it would be advantageous to the
national economy.
The Broadcasting Corporation of Japan is a result of the unifica-
tion of stations fornerly operated in parallel. It was organized with
the objective of gontrolling the industry nationally. Thus this
corporation is fully equipped to act as a monopoly organization, As its
objectives in the management of the broadcasting industry, the or-
ganization has formulated various plans for the advancement and
developnent of wireless telephone. In addition it is a non-profit-
seekigg business organization, and does not participate in any activity
-5-

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
RI-(T)-13-RA-2
other than those required by the abovementioned objectives. Hence
the entire effort of the corporation will be devoted to the broad-
casting industry. It has a system of organization-which the govern-
ment can easily supervise, and a sufficiently powerful background'to
nake manifest the advantages of monopoly, while curbing the defects
of a monopoly industry.
According to article 34 of the Civil Law, a non-profit-seeking
organization may either b= a juridical person or a corporate juridical
person, and its existence may by recognized only by permission of the
Minister of State concerned. The Broadcasting Corporation of Japan
is a corporate juridical person associated with wireless telephone,
which is a public utility; it does not seek profit; it is organized
by pernission of the Communications Minister. The regulations govern-
ing the establishment and supervision of a non-profit-seeking juridical
person under the supervision of the Communications Minister, as provided
by Communications Ministerial Order No.. 90. issued in-1913, can there-
for be applied to the Broadcasting Corporation of Japan.
IV. SUPERVISION
The supervision of the broadcasting industry is based on the
factors mentioned in the foregoing chapter. The business body is
placed under triple supervision, as a non-profit-seeking juridical
person, as the management of a special industry, and as an establisher
of wireless telephone facilities. Its legal basis is found in the
Civil Law as well as in the regulations concerning management based
upon this law, and in the Wireless Connunications Law and in the
- 6 -

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
RI-(T)-13-RA-2
other than those required by the abovementioned objectives. Hence
the entire effort of the corporation will be devoted to the broad-
 tasting industry. It has a system of organization which the govern-
ment can easily supervise, and a sufficiently powerful background'to
nake manifest the advantazes of monopoly, while curbing the defects
of a monopoly industry.
According to Article 34 of the Civil Law, a non-profit-seeking
organization may either b= a juridical person or a corporate juridical
person, and its existence nay oy recognized only by permission of the
Minister of State concerned. The Broadcasting Corporation of Japan
is a corporate juridical person associated with wireless telephone,
which is a public utility; it does not seek profit; it is organized
by permission of the Communications Minister. The regulations govern-
ing the establishment and supervision of a non-profit-seeking juridical
person under the supervision of the Communications Minister, as provided
by Communications Ministerial Order No.. 90, issued in 1913, can there-
for be applied to the Broadcasting Corporation of Japan.
IV.SUPERVISION
The supervision of the broadcastins industry is based on the
factors mentioned in the foregoing chapter. The business body is
placed under triple supervision, as a non-profit-seeking juridical
person, as the nanagement of a special industry, and as an establisher
of vireless telephone facilities. Its legal basis is found in the
Civil Law as well as in the regulations concerning management based
upon this law, and in the ireless Connunications Law and in the
- 6 -

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
RI-(T)-13-RA-2
re ulations concerning management based upon this law in turn. Thus
it has a dual basis.
The supervision of the government is directed at every possible
phase of the broadcasting industry, through its business operations,
business facilities, and adninistrative system. There are two typeo
of expression of the supervisory will of the government: positive
expressions such as orders or directives, and passive expressions
such as permissions or recognitions.
In order to thoroughly enforce the supervision, the affiliated
government offices will constantly coordinate with the business body.
They will demand all necessary reports, nake inspections, and continue
tie censorship. The government officials directly responsible for
these activities are the chief of the Communications Bureau (Teshin
Kyoku). and the Conmunications Minister. A concrete exanple of
supervision will be omitted here to avoid needless conplication.
However, an explanation will be given of some important points.
V. SUPERVISION OF ADMINISTRATION
The basis for supervision of the administrative systn is mainly
found in the fact that the nain business body is non-profit-seeking.
and in that tie application for pernission to establish a juridical
person requires an incorporation contract, description of assets with
their total value, and the total number of mambers. as provided in
Clause One of the Supervision Regulations of Article 84 of the Civil
Law. The main points in regard to the establishnent of a policy-making
organ and an administrative organ are as follows:
-7-

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
RI-(T)-13-RA-2
(1) As a basic requirament to insure the effectiveness of
any changes made in the incorporation contract, all changes are
subject to the approval of the Coamunications Minister (Article 38
of the Civil Law).
If a juridical person undertakes any enterprise not specified in the
incorporation contract, or violates any of the articles agreed upon
when the permit for establishment was granted. or is responsible
for actions which harn puolic interests, the Connunications Minister
is authorized to cancel the pernit. then these cases involve wira-
less co launications, the persona concerned will be fined ¥1, ooo or
less. (Article 71 of the Civil Law; Articles 4 and 17 of the Nire-
less Coinunications Law.)
(2) Names of directors and inspectors. changes in their add-
resses, the yearly number of members, and all assets, should be
reported, When a false report is made in regard to the assets,
the directors and inspectors shall be fined not more than 2oo and
not less than ¥5:0a. (Articles 2 and 3 of the Supervision Regula-
tions; Article 84 of tne Civil Law)
(3) The regulations within the incorporation contract, hich
enaole the Coamunications Minister to deternine the selection and
replacement of directors and inspectors, and the enployment and
retirement of regular officials, must be decided upon. Provision
must also be ade whereby the ivision of duties of directors, and
the selection of members and high-standing e aployees, become
subject to the approval of the comnunications Minister.
(4) The agenda of the general assembly, the date and place
-8-

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
RI-(T)-13-RA-2
of meeting, and other circumstances, should be raported prior
to the meeting; while the decisions of the meeting should be
reported as soon as is practical after the meeting. The Communica-
tions Minister may send a government official to the meetings,
who may express his views.
(5) Wnen the decisions of a general assenbly, or the actions
of directors or inspectors, violate the law, the establishment-
permit agreenents. or Broadcastins Vireless Telephone Facilities
agreements attached thereto, or vhen public interests are endanger.
ed. the Communications Minister may cancel these decisions, or
replace the lirectors or inspectors concerned. (Agreements
provided in the establishment-permit.)
VI. SUPERVISION OF BUSINESS FACILITIES
The basis for supervision of business facilities is found in the
fact that wireless telephone facilities are included among facilities
under the control of the government and specially permitted by the
governnent to operete privately. The Connunications Minister may
issue an order to the main business body to provide a plan for the
facilities (oncerned, which will enable it to furnish excellent broad-
cast programs that may be' easily heard in any area within Japan proper,
and he may also order this body to realize the said plan. (Article
2 of the Wireless Telephone Law; Permit Agreements.) In connection
with these provisions, directives have been issued in regard to business
planning, budget plans for incomes and expenditures, and facilities
in the making. They are briefly as follows:
-9-

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
e
RI-(T)-13-RA-2
(1) Plans for basic facilities, plans for affiliated
facilities, plans in connection with regular seasonal business
matters; the formulation of, and changes in, the budget plan
for incones and expenditures; borrowing naney and lending it;
all these reyuire approval. The Conmunications Minister has
authority to change these business plans and budget plans, and
he may also issue an order to establish facilities which are
deemed necessary in view of public or educational interests.
(Article 34 of the Civil Law; Article 2 of the Vireless Communica-
tions Law; Permission Agreements.)
(2) The grantins of a permit to establish facilities for
broad asting vireless telephones will be considered on the basis
of an application subnitted together with an enterprise plan,
a construction plan, and an account of estimated incones and
expenditures, with explanatory docunents, The nanes of new enter-
prises, broadcasting coverage area, changes of broadcasting tine,
chunges in construction plan, and discontinuation of the operation
of a facility, as or inally included in the enterprise plan, are
also subject to approval. (Article 2 of the Wireless Comnunica-
tions Law; Article 2,3,4, and 5, of the Broadcastins Regulations.)
(3) Te equipmaent and facilities for broadcasting wireless
telephone, such as receiving sets, wave-sands, electric power,
and various engineerins works, nust comply to a certain set of
restrictions. hen in engineering construction job has been
coapleted it must be filed with the governnent, and the operation
- 10 -

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
RI-(T)-13-RA-2
1.
of such a construction is not pernitted until an inspection
certificate hus been issued by a representative of the Communica-
tions Minister. For this reason, notice must be served at least
seven days prior to the expected date of operation. (Article
5 of the ireless Connunications Law; Clauses 2 and. 3 of Article
7, and Article 8, of the Broadcasting Regulations.)
(4) When regulations or laws concerning wireless telephone
are violated, permits granted for the establishmant of wireless
telephone facilities may be cancelled. (Article 9 of the Wire-
less Communications Law.)
(5) When it is deemed necessary for the sake of th public
interest, the governnent may purchase facilities or supervise
them. or may cancel permits. The government may also order
changes in facilities, restrict usage, or stop operations.
(Articles 7 and 8 of the Hireless Communications Law; Parmission
Agreement.).
VII. SUPERVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS
The basis for supervision of the administrative functions lies
in the functions of wireless telephone, and the special nature of
the industry, which is in turn under the control of the government.
In order to achieve the fulfiment of its mission, the followins ro-
gulations concerning the responsibilities of listeners and the practice
of broadcasting were established:
(1) All contracts ith, and listenin, feed of. subscribers,
- 11 -

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
RI-(T)-13-RA-2
require the prelininary permission of the Communications Minister.
The Co.amunications Minister may change the ∞ntents of the contract
ind the fee, if he so desires. Certain designated persons must
7
be exempted from payment of the fees in accordance with the order
of the Communications Minister. (Article 2 of Nireless Comnunica
tions La.; Article ll of the Broadcasting Regulations.)
(2) Persons in charge of stations should receive the pre-
li ninary approval of the Chiof of the Communications Bureau in
each respective area, in rgard to their qualification and
condidacy, and they must also have experience in the broadcasting
industry, Mhenever the Comnunications Minister or Communications
Buruau Chief issues a directive in regard to broadcasting, or if a
governmental office hich handles military communications re-
quests a stoppage of broadcastins, they must be obeyed. otherwise,
daily broadcustins my not be stopped. (Article 3 of the Wireless
Co muni ations La; Article 6, Clause 4 of Article 7, Clause 2
of Article 8, ind Article 9, of Broadcasting Regulations.)
(3) The broadcistins period shall be from 6:00 AM to 10:00 PM.
ind pernission must be obt ined sepurately for each progran.
Broadcast. prograns must be filed before being broadeasted. (Arti-
cles 3 nd 4 of the ireless Co munications Lv; Permission Agree-
ment.).
ty before and after eue: program. The insertion of advertisements
in prograas is prohibited, regardless of their forn. Persons
naking broadcasts which harn the public peace or morals, will be
-12-

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
RI-(T)-13-RA-2
punisned by penal servitude of lass than two years or fines
of lass than ¥500. (articles 2, 3, Clause 2 of rticle 25 of
the Wireless.Conmunications Law; Article 9 of the Broadeasting
Regulations.)
(5) The Co munications Minister may at any time order an
inspection of industrial facilities, business affairs, and
financial conditions. He may also reyuest reports on financial
conditions with charts of incones and expenditures, reports
on the present number of licensed radi, subscribers, condition
of the subscribers movement, spread of subscriptions, number
of broad astins d ys, number of days on which broadcasting is
cancelle, number of tines broadcasting is cancelled, and the
total number of broadcasting hours, divided according to programs.
(Article 2, Clause 2 of Article 13 of the Miraless Communications
Lan; Articles 34 nd 67 of tne Civil Law; Article 3 of Supervision
Regulations; Permission Regulations.)
- 13 -
