894.5048 Economic Matters., Labor., Japan, Slavery. Compulsory Labor. Peonage., January 3, 1947 (File 1556)
ID: 894.5048-1556   Pages: 2   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.5048-economic-matters-labor-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
ATTEND ARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO: A-H - General Hilldring
FROM: ILH - Mr. Mulliken
SUBJECT: Contract Labor in Hokkaido Coal Mines.

During the past several months there have been a number of newspaper reports concerning the existence of "slave labor conditions" in coal mines in Hokkaido, Japan. Gordon Walker, Chief Far Eastern Correspondent of the Christian Science Monitor, has submitted at least two detailed despatches regarding this problem. The Tokyo Asahi Shimbun called attention to it in a story printed on October 1, as did the Allied Labor News of November 5 in a report from Japan by Hugh Deane.

All of these sources report approximately the same situation. They say that some 10-12,000 workers are being held in a "prison cell system" (Kangoku Beya), a name derived from the fact that the so-called dormitories in which the workers live are really jails. Armed guards are said to watch over the men, and the dormitories are kept locked at night. Attempts to resist or escape result in severe beatings and a number of deaths have occurred from such practices. Government police are reported to have assisted in capturing men trying to flee from the mines. The legal pretext upon which these men are thus confined rests upon contracts entered into by the workers as a result of indebtedness. The contractors, by various methods, endeavor to keep the workers from paying-off the debt and thus being in a position to demand their release from the contract.

Gordon Walker reports that the Hokkaido provincial government, upon the instigation of SCAP's Labor Division, recently made a "half-hearted" attempt to clear up the prison-cell settlements. More than 1,000 persons were arrested and charged with assault, inflicting of wounds and unlawful confinement of employees. However, the majority of those really responsible for the system, including persons "apparently so powerful politically that the provincial government is unable to touch them," escaped the roundup. Both Walker and Deane, in commenting

894 5048/1-347

on

OFFICE OF
INTERNATIONAL TRADE POLICY
JAN 5 1947
REPLACEMENT OF STATE

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

on this, state that about 2,000 victims were freed as a result of this action. However they note that the stiffest penalty handed out was a year and a half in jail, in spite of the fact that killings were involved, and that in most cases only small fines were imposed.

It is also reported that attempts to form unions among these "contract" laborers have been combatted by the mine managements who use terroristic methods to check the growth of workers' organizations.

Paul L. Stanchfield, Chairman of SCAP's Advisory Committee on Labor, who returned from Tokyo only last week, informed an ILH officer (in response to a query) that the situation described above is in general correct. The Labor Division, he stated, is cognizant of these facts, but he believes a query addressed to SCAP would be helpful in expediting action.

I therefore recommend that the attached telegram be sent to SCAP.

Copies to:
JA - Mr. Borton
JK - Mr. Martin
ADO - Mr. Schuler

C.O.S.
ILH:PBSullivan:jk
1/3/47 WTH
