894.032 Legislative Branch Of Government., Japan, Proceedings. Messages To The Parliament. Presidents Message To Congress., March 30, 1937 - September 5, 1937 (File 968)
ID: 894.032-968   Pages: 501   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.032-legislative-branch-of-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
X
U
GRAY
Toyo
Dated March 30, 1937
3/2
0
Rec'd 31st, 8:45 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washington
101, March 30, 4 p.m.
1
One. The Government has today dissolved the Lower
House and a general election is set for April 30.
Two. of the Government bills which fail of passage
力
by reason of issolutior the most important from the point
of view of lovernment finance is the tariff bill. Less im-
0
portant are bills on farming lands, export control tax and
revision of ir n manufacturing law. The budget was passed.
2
Three. During the last few days the Lower House has
shan itsel recalcitrant hecause of the Government's failure
activel" to pus! the election revision bill through the
Upper euse. This bill is ne: radical hut would relieve
th parties frem certain lection restrictions which have
been unforced sinee the Inulai ca inet. The Government's
excuse for net pis ine t'u : ill is that the bill while
emhoayine some of the p ce m mtat ions of the election law
pevision com ieeion toce ne t embody all sue recommenaatiers.
Pom. Tu superficial issue en whieh diseoluticr is
based io of maall importone. Diesolution is an indication
racher tmt the prosent sev rnment doee not wish to hicker
with

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
 -2- #101, ar. 30, 4 p.m. from To yo
with parties. It suggests that the Government looks with
some hope to the army-led party novement referred to in
despatches numbers 2268 and 2273 of February 18.
GRTW
RR: WWC

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
b
GREEN
FROM
TOKIO
1920
Dated Jan. 21, 1930
Rec'd 4:50 a.m.
Division of
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
INDEX BUREAU
AN 21 1930
Washington
Department of State
7, January 21, noon.
I am informed that the text of the Foreign Minister's
speech in the Diet has already been forwarded to the
3
Japanese mbassy in Washington and will be given to the
2
Department by Debuchi.
The Foreign Minister tola me yesterday that the
cabinet had made the decision as to dissolving the Diet.
JS
CASTLE
JHB

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
COPIES SENT TO
FROM
C
GRENAND M.I.B.
WP
Tokyo
E.g.C
1929
Dated January 22, 1930
Rec'd 1:53 a. m.
INUEX BUREAU
Division of
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
力
JAN 22 1930
Washington, D. C.
0
8, January 22, 11 a. m.
3
My number 7, January 21, noon. Diet was
2
dissolved yesterday and new election ordered. The
decision was made quietly due evidently to the govern-
ment's belief that its chances of obtaining a majority
at this time were good.
The new election will take place on February
JAN 2 3 193J
20. The present government will continue in office
FILED
unless the elections leave it in a hopeless minority.
CASTLE
JS

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.88)
IN
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATESOF AMERICA
.10
Tokyo,
January 25, 1930
WE
No. 1
Page 12 of hanphe
FEB 1230
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB 14 1930
Depertment of State
894.032
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
Omeury- wr
FFD 20
WESTERN EUROPEAN FFAIRS
INDIX EURDAU
4.032
FEL211
FII ED
fre .cnoruble
   o tt,
89
us.i.ton.
sir:
99432
sup le.untin.  bie u o. 7 or Junuury 21, 1930,
I have t..e .onor to tr it erewiti copies in trans-
lution or t e texts or  e uuures cs relivreu before
tue Lower ouse oi t e Diet on Junuury zlst by buron
llenuru, te minister or forei f air, . huma gucni,
tie Prelier, and Ir. Iouye, t..e inister o. Finunce.
us .r.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.84)
follows s
in risind 
p:2 - lime 6
"deals"
1

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
could adjustment be reached.
He takes up his failure
to follow the example of Mr. Stimson last November in
addressing notes to the disputants. While expressing
full appreciation of the American motives in this move,
he felt, he says, that the time for a formal démarche
on the part of the Japanese Government, in. view of the
previous close contact, had not yet arrived since it
might eventually have drawn Japan into a discussion of
the merits and demerits of the issues raised.
This, he
feels, might eventually have forced further action in
regard to one or both of the disputants in order to make
the aémarche efrective.
As each Foreign Minister has done of late years,
in his address to the Diet, Baron Shidehara mentions
Japanese regret at the "discriminatory clause" contained
in the American Immigration Act of 1924 which, he states.
can not yet be regarded as a closed incident.
The
solution, however, he feels, must "flow from the friend-
ly understanding between the two peoples".
He then
adds that "it is patent to every one that such an under-
standing has of late made marked progress", in support
of which contention he refers to the cordial reception
by officials and the public in the United States extend-
ed to Japanese representatives to the London Naval Confer-
ence.
Both the comments of Baron Shidehara and of the
Premier regarding the Naval Conference I have dealt with
in my despatch No. 3 of January 27, 1930.
2/.
The speech of the Premier deals prinoipally with the
Naval

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Naval Conference, economic reforms, the election law
and political corruption, unemployment, and such agrarian
problems as the condition of tenant farmers and the ad-
justment of the supply and demand of rice. The speech
contains nothing of new interest and little that is
concrete.
After reviewing with pride the economio re-
forms of the present Government, which culminated in the
removal of the gold embargo on January llth, he states
that the Government will continue its policy of retrench-
ment and at the same time will promote industry and
foreign trade.
With respect to labor and agrarian
problems his comments are indefinite, each problem as
yet being, apparently, still in varying stages of investi-
gation. Among related measures to be drawn up he mentions
a bill to improve the condition of tenant farmers and a
bill for the improvement of the distribution of fertilizers
to bring down prices.
In connection with political cor-
ruption he points to the imperfect educational system as
one of t e principal causes, but advances no definite
2
reforms. He concludes with comments of gratification
respectin the imminent completion of the post-earthquake
reconstruction of Tokyo, whicn is to occur in Maroh of
this year.
3/.
Mr. Inouye, the Minister of Finance, reviews in
some detail the financial and economic steps already
taken by the present Government and their effects. He
describes the Government's intentions with respect to
the increase of the State subsidy for compulsory educa-
tion, revision of the land tax, and reduction of the
national debt.
As these subjects have already been
reported

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.91)
- 5 -
reported upon by the Eabassy comment here is felt to
be unnecessary, especially as he Finance Linister's
speech did not raise any new issues.
Due to . e  et t ut e aisso ution of tie Diet
folloveu almost im.cai. ely upon te presentution of
t ese auuresses, t e. reccive. ver. little conm.ent in
the press. Unly te Tolyo AsnI deult editorially
wit t em and not to any reat purpose.  translation
of t..e e itorial is not trunsnitted.
I .ave t..e olor to be, sir,
our obclient cervant,
.R. CASTLE,r.
Enclosures
L - r oi ron i .u.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
As r. Hamaguohi's speech was exceptionally long, lasting
for one hour, a translation of only its more important
passaes is submitted.
1/.
Baron Shidenara's speech reveals no uepartures in
policies. Eight of the eig teen pages which the trans-
lation occupies acals with Sino-Japanese relations,
t. ree are a aiscussion or the Sino-Soviet dispute respect-
ing the Cainese astern Railway, Wile four relate to
the London Naval Conference. Altnough indicating through-
out sympatly wit. Clina in er internal and diplomatic
proble.s, is remarks exiibit considerable firmness.
T.ere is a warning to Clinese leaders not to atteupt to
divert te utvention of the Cnilese people from internal
aifriculties wnic.. con ront tnem by embarkation upon an
"aaventurous" foreio policy.
..e s..o..s understanuing
of C.linece res iveness unuer extruierritoriality but at
te same time iisists t. ut ubo itio.. can be arliveu at
only wit t e uccoru o te Treut Powers alhu under the
assuralce tut t.e sufety or vorei n nationals una of
ecolo ic interes vill be pre erved. Wit.. .is state-
ment e aisposes of, so rur us ne is cone ineu, the mandate
o the Lationalict Govern.ent of last December whic. pro-
lai ea tle abolition or extraterritoriality fron Junuary
1, 1930.
With regaru to the dispute respecting the Cninese
Easterl. Railway he states t ut ne kept in constant touch
with tne representutives in Tokyo of t.e Chinese und
soviet governmeits bec use e wus confiaent thut only by
direct ne otiations between te prties of  e aispute
coula

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
E. Losure No. 2
L. spatch Fo.
The Japan Advertise
riom American Embassy
Tokyo, Wednesday, January 22
1930.
Prenlier Hamaguchi yesterday address-
and protect the gold standard.
The
administratfon āhbt always be let
ed the session of the Imperial Diet,
Government is determined, with
as follows:
co-operation of the people, to pro-
"It gives me a great pleasure," be-
mote the industries and improve for-
warm each other and make r
gan the Premier "to have the honor
eign trade, while continuing the policy
of speaking to you on the occasion of
of economy and retrenchment.
present politieal corruption is tra
the opening of the 57th session of the
"I believe that solution of the un-
regrettable from a consideration
Imperial Diet, after a lapse of seven
employment problem is one of the
constitutional government in Japan.
months since I was commanded by the
major social problems in this country.
"The causes of this political cor
Emperor to organize the Cabinet on
For the fundamental solution of the
ruption are many but the primeipal
July 2 last year.
problem we must rely on the stabili-
ones generally recognised are the 'tm
"The policy of the Japanese fov-
zation of the financial world and pro-
perfection of the aducational syste
ernment in regard to the naval disar-
sperity of the industries. The Gov-
the various systems which direetly or
mament at the London Conference
ernment. therefore, intends to solve
indirectly concern elections and the
springs, no doubt, from the determina-
all financial problems and promote the
need of undue amount of, electiop
tion to effect the security of national
financial welfare of the people. As a
funds. From this consideration, it i
defenses and lighten the financial bur-
step to relieve unemployment during
imperative for the government to im-
dens of the people internally and to
the winter, the Government this year
prove those systems as a measure to
promote friendship with foreign Pow-
has extended the scope of the assist-
effect a fundamenta) reform in the
ers externally. The security of na-
ance the Government annually gives
political world of Japan.
tional defense is a condition in which
we do not feel any menace from out-
laborers. As for further plans to re-
lieve unemployment, the Government
To Study Elections
side nations.
"I believe that the fundamental pur-
will touch upon them as soon as it
can find funds.
such improvement is so very extem
"But the scope of investigation for
pose of the prospective naval agree-
ment is to create circumstances where
the respective Powers give no menace
ply and demand of rice and other
"The problem of adjusting the sup-
Need Investigation
the undertaking is insufficient. It i
for this reason that the government
effort on the part of the government in
sive and complicated that a mere
to others and feel no menace from
others. Only when we feel guaranteed
in our national defense, can we main-
tain really friendly relations with the
Powers.
grains has a very important relation
to the economic condition in agricul-
tural communities and the stability
of national life as a whole. It is for
this reason that a thorough investiga-
accomplishing its object. From thi
tion of the subject, calling in intelli-
gent and experienced men to aid in
consideration the administration ha
intends to make a thorough investiga-
Connected With Finance
tion of the subject, on the basis of
in nind the instituting of a special
"It is no use to dwell on the fact
which a definite policy of the govern-
commission to make an exhaustive
that limitation or reduction of naval
armament has much to do with the
finances of a country. If the coun-
agreement, they can do so withou:
tries concerned carry limitation or
reduction into effect at a time through
tive. The special commission of in-
ministration, is maintained by the
ment may be established, is impera-
vestigation as an organ of inquiry.
which was orgalized by the last ad-
present administration. The nature
of the problem is so serious and com-
precedented in the history of the
world. About 800,000,000 has boen
appropriated for the reconstruetion
research into the election system.
reconstruction of our capital are un-
"The magnitude and difficulty of the
Camaging the security of nat mal
defense and can strengthen the ie
of friendship which hind nations.
"It is in this spirit that our Gov-
yet been able to make a full report
of its findings to the government. The
plicated that the commission has not
administration intends to formulate a
of 1929. It may be reca led that
pletexl at the end of the fiscal year
and the work is scheduled to be com-
the great earthquake and fire of 1928
rnment is laying before the London
Conference the propo-a: to not on!s
substantial reductions. With this
limit nava! armament but to effect
motto in mind the Japanese Gover
ment faces the conference in an fort
to do its best and o cad the con-
ference to suce.
power last July. it determined to re
move the tinancial diulicalt es with
cconomy and retrenement of the tos
in consumption. induce the tin
which the country hand he n confront
d. rehabilitate he peoples tiranc
fundamentally. carry mat pinoncia
ernment, readjust th Governement
loans, encourage the peopie's cconomy
world of Japan to fol os it- cerre
path and so effect the removal o: the
"As the Governrent stepoed n
suitable poliey upon receiving the re-
keeping with the present condition of
port from the commission.
ing. the government recognizes that
Japan. Under the circumstance, the
government has been studying the
a plan for a new law as prepared by
investigating the problem. At the
the law for tenant farming is not in
the special commission in charge of
same time the government made an
pecial commission in charge of so-
the government to prepare a new law
governing the tenant farming on the
problem on the basis of the outline of
cial politics. The commission advised
uasis of the plan formulated by the
inquiry nto the matter through the
"A, for the problem of tenant farm-
swept the capital causing untold
damage to human life and property.
mediately called an extraordinary
construction has been going on steadi-
session of the Diet and began the task
of reconstruction with the approval
of the Diet. Since that time the re-
ly with the result that it will be ap-
ceremony commemorating the com-
proximately completed as planned. At
reconstructed and also will attend the
The completion of the reconstruction
the end of March, the Emperor will
inspect the condition of the capital as
pletion of the reconstruction work.
co-operatton of the people in the task.
It is highly gratifying for the gov-
ernment to be able to report this fact."
work was made possible by the hearty
"The government at that time im
gold embargo.
"In prrparing reduction of Y117..
special commission in charge of the
investigation of tenan: farming. The
ono, including the ordinary and e.
government proposes to introduce a
traordinary accounts. Further cconon:
bill calling for a new law for tenant
was effected in preparing the Bnd .
'arming as soon a it decides upon a
for the fiscal year of 190.
definite measure.
Prepared for Ban End
Election Reforms
"The necessity was relt al-o for th
"Fert I zer lead- the list of expenses
readjustment o the tinance,o: the
on the farn. It is for this reason
local governments, for which doe at
that it- supply a: a low cost is bound
tention was paid. Restrretions were
to have a desirable effect upon the
placed on issuance of loan- by th- pre
cronomic life on the farm. From this
fectural governments anl on!y those
consideration, the government intends
which required urgeney were allowed
to introluce a bill calling for an im-
by the central Government. By effeet-
provement in the method of distribu-
ing th, all-round cconomy the Go
tion of fertilizer and financing the
ernment made the preparat ons fr 
project with an appropriation as an
removal of the gold embargo.
additional hudget in addition to a bil
"In regard to the removal o? t
demanding a reduction of freight
gold ban, which was effected on Janu-
rates.
ary 11. the Goveinment was confident
"The reform in the methods of elec-
that little disturbance would be caused
tions and cradication of administrative
to the financial world as the result
l:xity is the basis of all political re-
of this step. Ant it is to our satis-
form. It makes for :he invigoration
faction that nothing worth mention-
of national spirit and the proper devel-
ing has happened so far. The removal
pment of thought. It goes without
of the ban marks the first step toward
saying that crime should be sternly
the recovery of the financial world and
dealt with by the operation of jurilical
both the people and Government
power, but the problem of political
should co-operate to improve further
the international debts and credits

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japem Ohremiole,
Despch .
Kobe, Thareday, Jammary 25, 1950.
rom l zerlcan Exbassy
Tokyo.
FISCAL REFORMS.
prefectural, municipal, towa
budgets for the fiscal year 1929-1980, an
economy of v239,000,000 was effected, and
NO MORE LOANS TO BALANCE
in the new prefectural budgets for the
folowing fiscal year a reduction of
THE BUDGET.
¥75,000,000 has been made. In municipal.
MR. INOUE'S PLANS.
town and village estimates for the new
fiscal year, the same policy of retrench-
ment is being followed. So far as the
The speech delivered by Mr. Inoue,
reduction of local loans is concerned, the
Minister of Finance, in the House of Re-
Government is acting on the principle cf
presentatives on the 21st instant was as
sanctioning such new loans only as are
follows:—
of urgent and imperative necesity,,there-
"With the economic expansion con-
by checking their increase.
sequent upon the world war, Japan's
finances expanded greatly, but soon after
RISE IN EXCHANGE RATE.
the war, changes came over the economic
"The improvement in trade helpod to
world with the result that economic con-
restore both the credit of Japan abroad
traction took place. Not so with the
and the yen exchange. The exchange
country's finances, however. Far from
rate on America stood at $43% at the
being contracted, they went on expanding
end of June last year, or 11 per cent.
year after year, while the people gener-
lower than the assumed rate after the
ally retained in the post-war days the
lifting of the gold embargo. In the
habits which they had acquired during
latter half of last year, however, there
the war-time business prosperity. Under
was a steady rise until it reached $45%
these circumstances, no adequate read-
on November 18th. On the other hand,
justment was effected in the economic
the specie holding abroad, which are
world. There was an enormous excess of
important for the lifting of the gold em-
imports over exports year in and year
bargo, diminished considerably at one
out, with the result that the specie hold-
time. Out of the total of the specfe
ings abroad diminished and the exchange
held by the Government and the Bank of
rate witnessed a continuous decline.
Japan at the end of June last year,
This state of things made it imperative
amounting to ¥1,170,000,000, the holdings
for the economic world to be reorganised
abroad were no more than ¥83,000,000.
fundamentally. With this end in view,
Recognising the urgent need of replenish-
the Government had to achieve financial
ing them for the lifting of the gold em-
readjustment and rentrenchment, to
bargo, the Government, acting in co-
reduce the national debt and
to
operation with the Bank of Japan, made
encouarge economy among the people
purchases of funds abroad since July
generally. Inasmuch as the unsteady
last year by taking advantage of the ris-
economic state referred to was in no
ing tendency of the exchange rate that set
small measure due to the gold embargo,
in, until the total amount of the specie
which prevented the proper regulation of
held abroad reached ¥304,000,000.
the currency and prices, it was clear that
the removal of the gold embargo was
OUTFLOW OF SPECIE.
of urgent necessity for financial revival.
"As to the outflow of specie which is
As it was equally plain that the lifting of
to follow the lifting of the gold embargo.
the gold embargo was possible only when
it is to be hoped, judging from the
the state of international accounts had
favourable state of trade already men-
been improved. the adverse trade balance
tioned. that it will not be big. in so far
had been reduced and the excbange rate
as the specie required for the settle-
had recovered. the Government. as the
ment of international accounts is con-
necessary preparations for the proposed
cerned. With regard to the movemert
step. endeavoured to retrench the State
of funds. which it was feared at one
finances, to reduce the national debt, and
time would seriously impede the lifting
to encourage economy among the people.
of the gold embargo, the falling tendency
In the execution of the Budget for the
of the bank rate in the British and Ame-
fiscal year 1929-1930, it did its utmost to
rican markets, coupled with the deternin-
retrench expenditure and put off enter-
ed support of the leading Japanese banks
prises, wherever possible. Although one-
for the policy of the Government and the
fourthi of the fiscal year had passed when
Bank of Japan. inffuenced it favourably,
the present Cabinet came into power, it
and the fear of an enormous outflow of
succeeded in reducing the expenditure by
funds to cause a sharp rise in the
Y147.000,000 in the general and special
interest rates at home to the de-
accounts, the amount of the new loans
triment of domectic financial inter-
being reduced
byY59,000.000
10
ests ceased to exist.
The position
¥13s.000,000. The Budget for the fiscal
of the Japanese specie was thus rendered
year 1930-1931 was also compiled on the
very secure. but in order at once to
lines of ruthless retrenchment. The
reach a better understanding with the
estimates already voted were cut down
central money markets abroard and to
as far as possible. while every endeavour
give a greater sense of security to the
was made to refrain from new appropria-
nation. the Government caused the Yoko
tions. In the general account. the issue
hama Specie Bank to conclude a contract
of loans for financing works was entire-
with the groups of British and American
ly given up. In Japan's financial pro-
banks for the creation of credit of
gramme. it has been the custom since
Y100.000.000. Another favourable factor
1915 to have recourse to loan issues for
was that the Bank of England and Fede-
balancing the Budget, and in recent years
ral Reserve Bank of New York signifled
there has been a marked increase in the
to the Bank of Japan their willingness
amount of these loan issues. Under the
to give full moral support to Japan's
financial programme drawn up by the
lifting of the gold embargo. Thus, all
former Cabinet, the loan issues for the
preparations were completed. and the
fiscal year 1930-1931 were estimated at
Government became convinced that the
85,000,000 and those for subsequent
removal of the gold embargo in such
years at from ¥70,000,000 to ¥80,000,000.
circumstances could deal no hard blow to
An end was put to this practice by the
the financial world generally. Armed
present Cabinet, which has succeeded in
with this conviction, the Government
compiling a Budget devold of loan issues
officially announced on November 21st
for the first time for many years.
last year that the gold embargo would
"I will now explain the more import-
be lifted on January 11th this year. One
ant undertakings of the Government in
reason why the gold embargo was lifted
the flscal year 1930-1931. In view of the
with advance notice of short duration was
present state of local finance, the Gov-
that the Government concluded that in
ernment has decided, despite its retrench-
view of the year-and. it was necessary for
ment policy, to increase the State sub-
the peace of the financial world definitely
sidy for compulsory education by
to fix the date of removal, and the other
¥10.000.000 to ¥85.000,000. The money to
reason was its belief that. judged on the
be realesed in the local finances in con-
basis of the exchange rate than ruling.
sequence of this increased State subsidy
it was most advisable to make the ex-
the Government has arranged the local
port and import of gold free after the
governments should devote to the pur-
10th of this month.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
finances, to reduce the national debt, and
time would seriously Impede the lifting
to encourage economy among the people.
of the gold embargo, the falling tendency
In the execution of the Budget for the
of the bank rate in the British and Ame-
flscal year 1929-1930, it did its utmost to
rican markets, coupled with the deternin-
retrench expenditure and put off enter-
ed support of the leading Japanese banks
prises, wherever possible. Although one-
for the policy of the Government and the
fourth of the fiscal year had passed when
Bank of Japan. influenced it favourably,
the present Cabinet came into power, it
and the fear of an enormous outflow of
succeeded in reducing the expenditure by
funds to cause a sharp rise in the
¥147,000,000 in the general and special
interest rates at home to the de-
accounts, the amount of the new loans
triment of domectic financial inter-
being
reduced by59,000,000 to
ests ceased to exist. The position
¥138,000,000. The Budget for the fiscal
of the Japanese specie was thus rendered
year 1930-1931 was also compiled on the
very secure, but in order at once to
lines of ruthless retrenchment. The
reach a better understanding with the
estimates already voted were cut down
central money markets abroard and to
as far as possible, while every endeavour
give a greater sense of security to the
was made to refrain from new appropria-
nation, the Government caused the Yoko-
tions. In the general account, the issue
hama Specie Bank to conclude a contract
of loans for financing works was entire-
with the groups of British and American
ly given up. In Japan's financial pro-
banks for the creation of credit of
gramme, it has been the custom since
¥100,000,000. Another favourable factor
1915 to have recourse to loan issues for
was that the Bank of England and Fede
balancing the Budget, and in recent years
ral Reserve Bank of New York signified
there has been a marked increase in the
to the Bank of Japan their willingness
amount of these loan issues. Under the
to give full moral support to Japan's
financial programme drawn up by the
lifting of the gold embargo. Thus, all
former Cabinet, the loan issues for the
preparations were completed, and the
flscal year 1930-1981 were estimated at
Government became convinced that the
85,000,000 and those for subsequent
removal of the gold embargo in such
years at from ¥70,000,000 to 780,000,000.
circumstances could deal no hard blow to
An end was put to this practice by the
the financial world generally. Armed
present Cabinet, which has succeeded in
with this conviction, the Government
compiling a Budget devoid of loan issues
officially announced on November 21st
for the first time for many years.
last year that the gold embargo would
"I will now explain the more import-
be lifted on January 11th this year. One
ant undertakings of the Government in
reason why the gold embargo was lifted
the flscal year 1930-1931. In view of the
with advance notice of short duration was
present state of local finance, the Gov-
that the Government concluded that in
ernment has decided, despite its retrench-
view of the year-and, it was nacessary for
mment policy, to increase the State sub-
the peace of the financial world defnitely
sidy for compulsory education by
to fix the date of removal, and the other
¥10,000,000 to ¥85,000,000. The money to
reason was its belief that, judged on the
be realesed in the local finances in con-
basis of the exchange rate than ruling.
sequence of this increased State subsidy
it was most advisable to make the ex-
the Government has arranged the local
port and import of gold free after the
governments should devote to the pur-
10th of this month.
pose of lessening local taxes. The
burden of local taxation has grown very
THE GOLD EMBARGO.
heavy in recent years, and the Govern-
The economic state subsequent to the
ment is contriving to reduce it through
official announcement of the date of the
the readjustment and retrenchment of
lifting of the gold embargo has been quite
local finances. This measure, coupled
favourable. In December last year, there
with the increased State subsidy for
was an excess of exports over imports,
compulsory educatidn. the Government
and the total adverse balance of trade
hopes wili substantially reduce the tax
last year did not much exceed ¥67,000,000.
burden in the provinces.
Even if the excess of imports over ex-
"The plan to ensure a fair incidence
ports in Formosa and Korea be added.
of the land tax by altering the standard
the total is something like ¥170,000,000.
of assessment to the rental value of land
This is the smallest adverse trade
was definitely adopted in 1926, and in
balance for the past ten years. As the
the 51st session of the Diet a Bill for the
"invisible exports" amounted to some
Investigation of the Rental Value of
Y170,000,000 last year. the adverse trade
Land was passed. the investigation of
balance was counterbalanced.
the rental value of land throughout the
"The exchange rate has gradually
country being completed by the end of
advanced, as anticipated, and on the day
1927. According to the original scheme.
when the gold emhargo was lifted it stood
the land tax was to be revised on the
at $4914. Although there is not much to
basis of the rental value from 192s. but
report upon with regard to the general
the change of Government prevented the
tended. The present Cabinet. recognis
ing the urgent necessity of the proposed
execution of the plan as originally in
to free gold. as not many days have yet
that economic events are taking a very
passed since then. I am happy to say
conditions after the return of the country
tax from the fiscal year 1930-1931, and
revision. has decided to revise the land
cause for anxiety as to the future."
favonrable course and that there is no
has appropriated the necessary expend!-
ture in the new Budget.
"Measures for the development of
trade are particularly important in a
country who has just returned to free
gold, and as one of such measures it has
been decided to bring into effect the ex-
port indemnification system. In the
cases where banks have bought bills
drawn for the purpose of exporting goods
to districts where there is no market for
Japanese merchandise yet and where
there are believed to be obstacles to
transactions, and the incurrence of losses
probable through the dishonouring of
the bills, the Government will indemnify
such banks to a certain extent under the
proposed system so that banks can pur-
chase such bills without fear of loss.
This arrangement. it is hoped. will
greatly help forward the export trade.
"Japan's national debt reached the
enormous amount of Y6,000,000,000 at
the end of 1929. and under the old
financial programme, new loans were to
be issued to the tune of some ¥200.000,000
every year. As the national debt will
go on increasing without limit under
such a pregramme. the Government
altered the old financial programme in
the compilation of the new Budget. and
decided not to issue loans at all in the
general account, while reducing the loan
issues in the speclal accounts by half.
This has reduced the total amount of
new issucs in the fiscal year 1930 1931
to ¥55.500,000. The Government has
further laid down a plan to reduce the
national debt. That is to say, it has
decided to include in the sinking fund
the reparations moey due from Germany
hereafter. The sinking fund for the
fscal year 1930-1931 will tetal Y90.500.000.
consisting of over YS4.000.000 which is
legally fixed and over Y6,300.000, which
embodies the re parations money annual-
ly paid to this country by Germany. As

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
burden of local taxation has grown very
THE GOLD EMBARGO.
heavy in recent years, and the Govern-
The economic state subsequent to the
ment is contriving to reduce it through
official announcement of the date of the
the readjustment and retrenchment of
lifting of the gold embargo has been quite
local finances. This measure, coupled
favourable. In December last year, there
with the increased State subsidy for
was an excess of exports over imports,
compulsory educatidn. the Government
and the total adverse balance of trade
hopes will substantially reduce the tax
last year did not much exceed 767,000,000.
burden in the prov!nces.
Even if the excess of imports over ex-
"The plan to ensure a fair incidence
ports in Formosa and Korea be added,
of the land tax by altering the standard
the total is something like ¥170,000,000.
of assessment to the rental value of land
This is the smallest adverse trade
was definitely adopted in 1926, and in
balance for the past ten years. As the
the 51st session of the Diet a Bill for the
"invisible exports" amounted to some
Investigation of the Rental Value of
¥170,000,000 last year, the adverse trade
Land was passed, the investigation of
balance was counterbalanced.
the rental value of land throughout the
"The exchange rate bas gradually
country being completed by the end of
advanced, as anticipated, and on the day
1927. According to the original scheme,
when the gold embargo was lifted it stood
the land tax was to be revised on the
at $491/4. Although there is not much to
basis of the rental value from 1928. but
report upon with regard to the general
the change of Government prevented the
conditions after the return of the country
execution of the plan as originally in-
to free gold, as not many days have yet
tended. The present Cabinet. recognis-
passed since then, I am happy to say
ing the urgent necessity of the proposed
that economic events are taking a very
revision, has decided to revise the land
favourable course and that there is no
tax from the fiscal year 1930-1931, and
cause for anxiety as to the future."
has appropriated the necessary expend!-
ture in the new Budget.
"Measures for the development of
trade are particularly important in a
country who has just returned to free
gold, and as one of such measures it has
been decided to bring into effect the ex-
port indemnification system. In the
cases where banks have bought bills
drawn for the purpose of exporting goods
to districts where there is no market for
Japanese merchandise yet and where
there are believed to be obstacles to
transactions, and the incurrence of losses
probable through the dishonouring of
the bills, the Government will indemnify
such banks to a certain extent under the
proposed system so that banks can pur-
chase such bills without fear of loss.
This arrangement, it is hoped. will
greatly help forward the export trade.
"Japan's national debt reached the
enormous amount of ¥6,000,000,000 at
the end of 1929. and under the old
financial programme. new loans were to
be issued to the tune of some ¥200.000,000
every year. As the national debt will
go on increasing without limit undrr
such a programme, the Government
altered the old financial programme in
the compilation of the new Budget. and
decided not to issue loans at all in the
general account, while reducing the loan
issues in the speclal accounts by half.
This has reduced the total amount of
new issues in the fiscal year 1930 1931
to ¥55.500,000. The Government has
further laid down a plan to reduce the
national debt. That is to say. it has
decided to include in the sinking fund
the reparations moey due from Germany
hereafter. The sinking fund for the
fiscal year 1930-1931 will tetal ¥90 500,000.
consisting of over Y84.000.000 which is
legally fixed and over Y6.300,o00, which
embodies the reparations money annual-
ly paid to this country by Germany. As
the national loans to be issued in the
same year are fixed at Y5.500,000. th.
total of the national debt will be reduced
by Y35.000.000. As to the redemption of
the capital of :he national deht it has
hitherto been a charge en the general
account. but after the fiscal vear 1930-
1931 inclusive all special accounts are
to bear their share of the burden.
"The finances of local autonomous
bodies have been expanding at a greater
rate than the State finance. with the re-
sult that the local loans have increased
enormously. At the end of 192s. the total
of loca1 loans reached Y2,000,000,000. In
such circumstances, it is of urgent neces.
sity both to retrench local expenditure and
to reduce local loans. In the working

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISTON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apr11 25, 1930.
Mr. Cotton:
Tranmitting, as requested.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
Division of
JAPANESE EMBASSY
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
WASHINGTON
APR 25 1930
Index Bureau
Department of State
Fu
BUMVED
Apr11 24, 1930.
ack'd
89
APR 30 1930
h
April 29, 1980.
Dept. of State
fil
69
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief of the Far Eastern Division,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
6
20
Sir:
Under the direotion of Ambassador
Debuohi I am sending you herewith two oopies of
the speech by Baron Shidehara, our Foreign
Minister, which is going to be delivered at the
894.132
Japanese Diet tomorrow, and which we are going
to give out to the newspapers under release for
Friday morning papers.
CALUT
CTRTLA
The Ambassador desires that you
kindly give one gopy to the Aoting Seoretary,
and keep the other for yourself.
Yours truly,
Secretary.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
TC D RELEAS3D PD LOE G, A NIL 2E, 1950.
 C OF AROT IDA,  IST R FOR
FOREICEI ARS  TA , A HE SPEOHAL
Between Japan and China an agreement relatin to customs
duties is nov ready for sinature. Its main features are recogni-
tion by Japan of China's tariff autonomy and reciprocal undertak-
ings on tarifi for a number of commodities. Concernin customs
autonomy of China, a resolution for its recognition in principle
Was adopted by the special committee at the Peking Tariff Confer-
ence in 1925. It is a matter of common Imoledge that Japanese
representatives at the Conference played a role of si nal import-
ance in securing the passage of that resolution. Owin, to the
t reatening development of domestic warfare in China the Peking
Conference vas brou t to a close wi thout any definite result be-
ing attained. Subsequently, ovever, customs agreenents have
been concluded in succession by various Fo ers with China. Wit
the conclusion of a similar agreement betveen Japan and China no
awaiting si mature, formal reconition of China's customs putonony
by all nations concerned  ill have become com lete. Ict. in is
noro  ratifyin to us than to itness such a notable ach evement
on the part of u at neigibering nation. At the came time, a
measure of res onsibility must be involved in any r ht. Tie re-
linguishment oy tre Perers of treaty uarantees  icl. are cf reat
mater al value to t m amd maieh t ey have se lox. njoyed rests
on tie implicit bolief t at Chine vill noe a e use of er no.
pos tion te modify her customs tariff in suc a ay as to
.1:02
or destroy h r forei an trade. I feel confid nt t ai Chinc will
-1-

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
live up to her moral responsibility and prove herself equal to
the trust thus placed in her by the Povers.
The proposed agreement ith China also provides for re-
ciprocal engagements to maintain specified rates of duty upon a
number of commodities for certain periods of time. What we natur-
ally desire is stability of our trade with China. We cannot be
eipected to remain indifferent to the frequent and radical
can es in the Chinese tariff.
China on her part finds it ecually
important to secure a market in Japan for certain classes of
Chinese manufactures. These mutual desires have given rise to a
scheme of reciprocal undertakings in regard to customs tariffs.
The arrangement marks a step forvard torards a full realization
of the principle of solidarity betveen Japan and China and is
but the natural outcome of the specially close economic relations
existing betveen the tvo nations. Needless to say, it does not
in any ay infringe upon custons autonomy of eit er nation. On
the contrary, it is nothing more than the normal exercise of
state sovereinty:
: We urther propose, in accordance with our
settled policy, to proceed to a discussion vith the Chinese
Government of otier provisions to be incorporated in nev commer-
cial treaty besides those Which relate to custons duties. It is
sincerely hoped that, tirough mutual appreciation by each nation
of tlo just and reasonable position of the other, satisfactory
progress will be assured for these negotiations. It appears
that recently along wi tn the reappearance of si ms of unrest on
tho political horizon of China, a section of the press in that
country has been disseminating reports suggestin t at we had a
hand in bringing about that turn of events and vere engaged in
the prosecution of un orthy desicns. Sucl accusations are too
-2-

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.97)
preposterous to call for any denial. It cannot be necessary to
reaffirm our knon policy of fair and square dealing in China.
Activities of our people turning to the subject of naval
disarmament, I do not feel myself at liberty for the present to
relate at any great length the proceedings of the London Confer-
ence. I an, hovever, happy to announce that the Conference has
at last cone to a successful conclusion after constant and most
exacting labors ever since its opening on the tventy-first of
January and t.rou h iutual concessions and friendly co-operation
This treaty of
on the part of all of the participatine Powers.
historic inportance vas simed on the tventy-second of this month.
It should be hailed with satisfaction by all those who have at
heart te advancement of peace and friendship amons nations.
Part cular attention is invited to the a reement ar ived at for
t..e prevention of buildinx, competition in auxiliary craft. Japan,
 land, and Anerica, after repeated failures for more then eiit
years since t.e Washin ton Conference, Mave finally stcceeded
in composing all differences which had so far stood in tie way
of such an areement. Th's fact in itself as significance far
beyond the logal effects indicated in the provisions of the
treaty. In mutual relations of nations nothin can be more arn-
ful or more uncalled for than competition in naval constructi on.
It is calculated to aggravate fear and uneasiness instead of
strengthening the confidence of any party in race in its national
security. The history of the days preceding the World Var bears
strikiny tost imony to this tendency. The London Treaty puts an
end to all competition in naval construction for the duration of
its validity. The value of the treaty lies not only in such na-
terial advantages as lessening of national burdens but more es-
-5-

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
pecially in the moral influence it is bound to exercise upon
international relations.
The treaty is intended to regulate conditions to pre-
vail until the end of 1956. It is made clear that the amount
of naval strength to be allowed each Pover after that period
s all be discussed and determined at a conference to be keld in
1955. In respect to capital ships, the treaty stipulates tlat
until the end of 1936 the signatories shall not exercise their
ri  ts to lay dorn keels of replacement tonna e provided for
by the Washington Treaty and, further, the British Commonvealth
of nations shall dispose of five capital ships, the United States
of tiree, and Japan of one. Regarding auxiliary craft, the
total amount of tonnage to be possessed by Japan will be less
by approximately fifty thousand tons than her existing strength.
And yet the strength vhich ve shall actually retain at date of
the conference in 1955 does not materially differ from that which
we originally proposed alike in eigit-inch cun cruiser class and
It is true that the tonnae
in total tonnage of auxiliary craft.
of submar: nes has been reduced considerably belov the figure ve
proposed for ourselves but our strength in this category will
maintain strict parity with that of the British Conmonvealth and
the United States, both of Vhich have abandoned their original
demand for total abolit ion of submar ines. These arrangements
have now made it possible for us to economize in our naval ex-
pendi ture vhile the safety of our naticnal defense is adequately
assured for the duration of the treaty. None but extrene pessi-
mists could possibly contend that the amount of strength to be
allotted to Japan during the period ending l936 will prove fatally
short of the needs of our national security. Takin fully into
-4

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
consideration the views of naval experts, we ave finally adopted
Wit: firm conviction the decision to join in the present treaty
It may be apprehended that in regard to the amount of
Naval stren th to be possessed by Japen after Jamary 1937 the
conference mi ht place upon us restrictions similar to those im-
posed by the present treaty involving serious dancer to our
national security. It vill, however, be conceded that condi-
tions of t e vorlc are constantly chancing.
 What ve attach the
createst importance to for the moment in our military ecuipment
a" not necessarily reta in the same measure of value tomorrov.
It is ecually possible that what nov seems to us of lit tle use
mar nome day bocome indisponsable. It is incumbent upon us,
t ereiore, to reserve to ourselves perfect liberty to present at
the next conference hatever claims may then appear suitable in
iven circumstances. That liberty is explicitl- provided for in
the present treaty. T ere is no occasion for apprehension t at
i  treaty of London is to bind us kand and foot for all time to
O.
To shov oneself unduly disturbed under he influence of
so mistaken an impression vould be an attitude little iorthy of
a self-res ectin nation. Furtmermore, lest ciminution of auxil-
iary tonmage miit render it difficult for us to maintain our
standard of technical skill and ability in the matter of naval
construction, ve vere careful to uard against any such eve: al
ities by securin, after full discussion upon tat phase of the
ratter with ot or Povers, a working arrangement authorizing us
vithin certain limits to efiect replacement of ships before the
prescribec age linit is reached.
In these circunstances, every fair cbserver vill acree
at the provisions of the London Naval Treaty contain nothing
-5-

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
to which ve ougt eyen at the risk of rupture of negotiations
to lave talen exception and that, on the contrary, the sane and
proper course for us to take was to extend our wholehearted co-
operation in order to secure the success of the Conference. It
seems that in certain quarters rumors so utterly vide of the
truth are ciroulated as that agreenent was forced upon us by
ot er Yolrers. I need hardly point out the absurdity of such ro-
morts. Having carefully weighed all the considerati ons not only
of ioreign policy but also of naval financial economics and all
other factors of national stren th upon vhich security of a na-
tion must in tio final analysis depend, we were brou it to the
conclusion tat in accenting the terms of the agreenent arrived
at ve would decidodly be serving the real interests of this Erpire.
Before conoluding my remarks, I may be permitted to ex-
press our profound appreciation of the loyalty and devotion wit
w.ich the re resentatives of this country and all the mer bers of
the Delegation have for the several months pest successfully
faced most cifi. cult s tuations and t.me tremendous pressure of
ork i volved in te London Conference.
-6-

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.88)
Apr1l 29, 1980.
Dear Er. Meseme:
8
94.0
Your letter ef April 24, 19s0, mder the direetsem
of Ambesseder Debuchi, with whioh you kinely melesed
3
twe eepies ef the speceh of Baren shidekere which wes
p
te be delsvered befere the Diet en Friday last, wme
9
daly received snd in seserdanee with the Ambesssder's
request ene eopy of the speech was handed to the Aeting
seeretary of State.
The eeurtesy of the Smbessy in sensins the copies
is greetly eppreciated.
Yours mineerely,
CRL
1030…
Mr. Xosaku Midsnsawe,
À true copy of
the signed orig-
inal.M
Beesne Seeretary.
Jepenese Embessy.
B18XI:1

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
2
EMBASSY OF THE
FE
二
UNITED:STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Japan, May 5, 1930.
No. 121
Division of
MAY2230
FAN EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 22 1930.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
8
Desartwout of State
Co1
894.032
WESTERN EUAOPÉAN AFFAIRS
894.032
Yes No
FOR DISTRIBUTION - CHECK
To +he Fieldj
In U. S. A.
V
3
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
ATLH
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit copies in translation
of the texts of the addresses delivered on April 25th
1/.
by Baron Shidehara, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr.
2/.
Hamaguchi, the Premier, and Iir. Inouye, the Minister of
3/.
Finance, before the Fifty-eighth Session of the Imperial
Diet, which was formally opened two days previously by
the Emperor.
Baron Shidehara refers to the definition of policy
made

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
made in his address of January 2lst of this year at the
beginning or the Fifty-seventh Session or the Diet and
states that nothing has oocurred since then to alter it.
Considerably more than half his speeoh deals with the
London Naval Treaty, reported in my despatoh No. l18 of
May 5, 1930. The remainder of his remarks, with the
exception or reference to the provisional commercial
agreement with Egypt, whichy was conoluded on Maroh 19th
683.943171
(despatoh No. 80 or Maroh 25, 1930), relates to China.
He refers to the Sino-Japanese oustoms agreement, which
was provisionally signed at Nanking on Maroh llth, as
693.9431/41
reported in my despatoh No. 82 of Maroh 25, 1930, and
points out that with the conolusion of this agreement the
formal recognition of China's customs autonomy by all
nations concerned will have become complete. He expresses
gratirication at this "notable achievement" on the part
of China, and expresses confidence that China will live
up to her moral responsibility and prove herself equal to
the trust placed in her by the Powers. He also refers to
accusations appearing in the Chinese press, following the
reappearance of signs of political unrest in China, that
Japan has been an instigator. He described these accusa-
tions as "too preposterous to call for any denial".
The address of the Premier is unusually short and
touches briefly the London Naval Treaty, the draft budget
that has been submitted to the Diet, the Sino-Japanese
tariff agreement, and the bill providing for an increase
in the State subsidy for compulsory education paid from
the National Treasury. His remarks contain no new material.
The Finance Linister in his adaress refers to the
draft

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
draft budget, a bill for revision of the tariff, the ef-
feots of the removal of the gold embargo on January llth
of this year, and the present depressed finanoial situation.
The total amount or gold sent abroad sinoe the removal of
the embargo, he states, 1s Yen 195,000,000, inoluding money
whioh had come into Japan, before the ban was lifted, for
speculative purposes. At present, he continues, very
little is going out of the country. He expresses the be-
lief that conditions since the removal of the embargo have
been amooth and uneventful.
The addresses of these three Ministers of State re-
ceived no praise in press editorials, while those of the
Premier and the Finance Minister were objects of adverse
criticism. The Tokyo NICHI NICHI finds in them nothing
fresh.
After dwelling at length on the serious problem
of unemployment, this paper points out that the only
measure taken by the Government in this direction has been
the appointment of an unemployment relief commission,
which it regards only as a makeshift. It urges the en-
forcement of new social policies to meet the situation.
The Tokyo Kokumin finds the Premier's address "monotonous",
but neutralizes this criticism by very high praise of the
Premier's character and personality.
The Tokyo HOCHI
states that Mr. Hamaguohi's address was nothing but a
brief formality, and speculates as to whether this brevity
was the result of his pride as a leader of an absolute
majority in the Lower House or due to his fear of an attack
The people, this paper insists,
from the House of Peers.
wished to hear from him with respect to reduction of taxes
and development of Sino-Japanese trade.
The Premier also
should have explained how he will obtain the Yen 10,000,000

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
for education and at the same time effeot a reduotion of
taxes. The Premier's duty, the Hoohi concludes, was to
explain his policies for the improvement of the present
economio situation, whioh he failed to do. The Tokyo
CHUGAI SHOGYO comments only on the address of the Finanoe
Minister, whioh it finds "oommonplace" and "unsatisfactory".
The comments of the Finance Minister with respeot to
the gold embargo have been the objeot of attaok in the
Diet. This matter will be dealt with fully in a subse-
quent despatch.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
For the Ambassador:
Etuimt. nailk
Edwin L. Neville
Counselor of Embassy.
Enclosures:
Copies of - in translation -
1 - Address of Baron Shidehara
2 -
n
" Mr. Hamaguohi
3 -
n
" Mr. Inouye

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
tnolosure No./
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturday, April 26, 1930.
From Amerioan Embassy
thst couiltry was urgontly felt. Nogo-
Tokyo.
tiatidns with that end in view Wad' béen
initisted long ago, but, on account of
various dimculties, made littie pro-
Shidehara's Speech
gress. It is a matter for congratula-
greatest importance to for the moment
Baron Shidehara's address follows
tion to both countries that a provi-
in our military equipment may net
honor to address this House, and to
in full:
"On January 21, last, I had the
lust concluded on the 19th of March.
Similar treaty relations with various
sional conmercial agreement was at
necessarily retain the same measur
of value tomorrow.
"It is equally possible that what
define the general lines of policy
other countries of the world are also
now seems to us of little use 'may
which the Government proposed to
follow an various diplomatic prob-
lems confronting this country. No-
thing has happened since then calling
for any alteration of these policies.
I shall, therefore, avoid repetition and
confine myself on this occasion to
liberty for the present to relate at
activities of our people.
disarmament. I do not feel myself at
in contemplation, in order to facili-
tate the commercial and industral
"Turning to the subject of naval
The Naval Conference
is incumbent upon us, therefore, to
reserve to ourselves perfect liberty
whatever claims may then appeer
That liberty is explicitly provided for
in the present Treaty. There is no
to present at the next Conference
suitable in the given circumstances.
some day become indispensable. It
latest developments in our internation-
stating the outline of a few of the
any great length the proceedings of
the London Conference. I am, how-
occasion for the apprehension that
the Treaty of London is to bind us
al relations.
"Between Japan and China, an
ever, happy to announce that the
hand and foot for all time to come.
Conference has at last come to a suc-
To show oneself unduly disturbed,
features are a recognition by Japan
of China's tariff autonomy and re-
is now ready for signature. Its main
agreement relating to customs duties
cessful conclusion. after constant and
most exacting labors ever since its
opening on January 21, and through
under the influence of so mistaken an
impression, would be an attitude lit-
tle worthy of a self-respecting nation.
ciprocal undertakings on tariff for a
mutual concessions and friendly co-
operation on the part of all the par-
of auxiliary tonnage might render it
"Furthermore, lest the diminution.
number of commodities.
"Concerning the customs autonomy
licipating Powers.
diffcult for us to maintain our stán
of China, a resolution for its re-
"A treaty of historic importance was
dard of technical skill and abflity in
cognition in prineiple was adopted by
signed on the 22nd of this month. It
the matter of nava! construction, we
a special committee at the Peking
should be hailed with satisfaction by
were careful to guard against any
tariff conference of 1925. It is a mat-
all those who have at heart the ad-
such eventualities by securing, after
ter of common knowledge that the
vancement of peace and friendship
full discussion upon that phase of the
Japanese representatives at the con-
¿mong the nations. Particular atten-
matter with the other Powers, a work-
ference played a role of signal im-
tion is invited to the agreement ar-
ing arrangement authorizing us within
pcrtance in securing the passage of
rived at for the prevention of build-
certain limits to effect the replace-
that resolution. Owing to the threat-
ing competition in auxiliary craft.
ment of ships before the prescribed
ening development of domestic war-
Japan, England and America, after re-
age limit is reached.
fare in China, the Peking conference
peated failures for more than eight
"Sane and Proper Course"
was brought to a close without any
years since the Washington Confer-
"In the these circumstances, every
definite result being attained. Subse-
ence, have finally succeeded in com-
fair observer will agree that the ro-
quently, however, customs agreements
posing all the differences which had
visions of the London Naval Treaty
have been concluded in suecession by
so far stood in the way of such an
contain nothing to which we ought,
various Powers with China. With the
agreement.
even at the risk of a rupture of the
conclusion of the similar agreement
"This fact, in itself, has a signi-
negotiations, to have taken exception
between Japan nd China now await-
ficance far beyond the legal effects in-
and that, on the contrary, the sane
ing signature, the formal recognition
dicated in the provisions of the
end proper cou se for us to take was
of China's customs autonomy by all
treaty. In the mutual relations of na-
to extend ou whole-hearted co-operai
the nations concerned will have be-
tions, nothing can be more harmful or
tion in oider to secure the success of
achievement on the part of that
come complete.
than to witness such a notable
"Nothing is more gratifying to us
in naval construction. It is calculated
to aggravate fear and uneasiness, in-
more unealled for than a competition
the Conference.
rumors so utterly wide of the truth
"It seems that in certain quarter
neighboring nation. At the same
time, a measure of responsibility
must be involved. The relinquishment
by the Powers of treaty guarantees.
days preceding the World War bears
stead of strengthening the confidence
of any party in the race in its na-
tional sevurity. The history of the
are circulated as that the agreement
was forced upon us by other Powers.
I need hardly point out the absurditý
of such reports. Having carefulty.
which are of great material value to
striking testimony to this tendeney.
weighed all considerations, not only of
them, and which they have so long
The London Treaty puts an end to all
foreign policy, but also of naval, fim
enjoyed, rests on the implicit belief
competition in naval construction for
ancial, ehomic and all the other fac-
that China will not make use of her
the duration of its validity. The value
tors of national strength, upon which
new position to modify her customs
of the Treaty lies, not only in such
the security of a nation must, in the
tariff in such a way as to hamper or
material advantages as the lessening
fina! analysis, depend, we were brought
to destroy her foreign trade. I feel
of national burdens, but more especial-
to the conclusion that, in accepting
confident that (hina will live up to
ly in the moral influence it is bound
the terms of the agreement arrived at,
her moral responsibility and prove
to exercise upon international rela-
we would decidedly be serving the ral
herself equal to the trust thus placed
tions.
interests of this Empire.
in her by the Powers.
"The Treaty is intended to regulate
"Before concluding my remarks, I
Trade Stability is Goal
the conditions to prevail until the
nay be permitted to express our pro-
"The proposed agreement with China
end of 1936. It is made clear that the
found appreciation of the loyalty and
also provides for reciprocal engage-
amount of naval strength to be ai-
devotion with which the'representa-
ments to maintain specified rates of
lowed to each Power after that period
tives of this country and alt the mem-
duty upon a number of commodities
shall be discussed and determined at
bers of the delegation -have for se-
for certain periods of time. What
a conference to be held in 1935. In
\eral months past successfully faced
we naturally desire is the stability of
respect of capital ships, the Treaty
the most difficult situations and the
our trade with China. We cannot be
stipulates that until the end of 1936,
tremendous pressure of work invo!ved
expected to remain indifferent to fre-
the signatories shall not exercise their
in the London Conference."
quent and radical changes in the Chi-
right to lay down the keels of replace-
it equally important to secure a mar-
nese tariff. China on her part finds
nwent tonnage provided for by the
Washington Treaty; and, further, that
ket in Japan for cortain classes of
Chinese manufactures. These mutual
the British Commonwealth of Nations
shall dispose of five capital ships, the
desires have given rise to a scheme
United States of three, and Japan of
one. Regarding auxiliary craft, the
of reciprocal undertakings in regard
total amount of tonnage to be pos-
to customs tariffs. The arrangement
marks a step forward towards the full
realization of the principle of solidar-
proximately fifty thousand tons than
her existing strength. And yet the
sessed by Japan will be less by ap-
close economic relations existing be-
but a natural outcome of the specially
ity between Japan and China, and is
strength which we shall actually re-
tain at the date of the Conference of
tween the two nations. Needless to say,
1935 does not materially differ from
it does not in any way infringe upon
that which we originally proposed,
-the customs autonomy of either na-
alike in the eight-inch gun cruiser
tion. On the contrary, it is nothing
class and in the total tonnage of aux-
more than a normal exercise of State
iliary craft.
"It is true that the tonnage of
sovereignty.
submarines has been reduced con-
"We further propose, in accordance
siderably below the figure we propos-
with our settled policy, to proceed to
ed for ourselves, but our strength in
the discussion with the (Chinese Gov-
this category will maintain strict
ernment of other provision to be in-
i wit thot of the Britis Com

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
agreement relating to customs dutiet
cessful conclusion. after constant and
under the influence of so mistakén an
is now ready for signature. Its main
most exacting labers ever since its
impression, would be an attitude 
number of commodities.
a mpecial committee at the Peking
features are a recognition by Japan
of China's tariff autonomy and re-
of China, a resolution for its re-
cognition in principle was adopted by
ciprocal undertakings on tariff for a
tariff conference of 1925. It is a mat-
ter of common knowledge that the
"Concerning the customs autonomy
opening on January 21, and through
operation on the part of all the par-
ticipating Powers.
signed on the 22nd of this month. It
should be hailed with satisfaction by
all those who have at heart the ad-
mutual concessions and friendly co-
vancement of peace and friendship
"A treaty of historic importance was
diffcult for us to maintain our mtán-
the matter of naval construction,
tle worthy of a self-respecting natio
of auxiliary tonnage might render ié
dard of technical skill and abnity in
were careful to guard against an
such eventualities by securing, a
full discussion upon that phase of t
"Furthermore, lest the, dimintie
icrtance in securing the passage of
'Japanese representatives at the con-
ference played a role of signal im-
among the nations. Particular atten-
tion is invited to the agreement ar-
rived at for the prevention of build-
ing arrangement authorising us withta
certaih limits to effect the reptsée-
that resolution. Owing to the threat-
ing competition in auxiliary eraft.
ment of ships before the prescribéd
fare in China, the Peking conference
ening development of domestic war-
was brought to a close without any
peated failures for more than eight
Japan, England and America, after re-
years since the Washington Confer-
age limit is reached.
"In the these cireumetances, eve
"Sane and Proper Course"
definite result being attained. Subse-
ence, have finally succeeded in com-
fair observer will agree that the 
quently, however, customs agreements
posing all the differences which had
visions of the London Naval Treaty
have been concluded in succession by
so far stood in the way of such an
contain nothing to which we ought,
various Powers with China. With the
agreement.
sven at the risk of a rupture of the
.conclusion of the similar agreement
"This fact, in itself, has a signi-
negotiations, to have taken escepth!
between Japan nd China now await-
ficance far beyond the legal effects in-
and that, on the contrary, the 
ing signature, the formal recognition
dicated in the provisions of the
and proper couse for us to take was,
of China's customs autonomy by all
treaty. In the mutual relat ons of na-
to extend our whole-hearted co-opers?
the nations concerned will have be-
tions, nothing can be more harmful or
tion in order to secure the success'of
come complete.
more uncalled for than a competition
the Conference.
"Nothing is more gratifying to us
in naval construction. It is calculated
"It seems that in certain quarter
than to witness such a notable
to aggravate fear and uneasiness, in-
rumors so utterly wide of the truth
achievement on the part of that
stead of strengthening the confidence
are circulated as that the agreement
neighboring nation. At the same
of any party in the race in its na-
was forced upon us by other Poweri.
time, a measure of responsibility
tional security. The history of the
I need hardly point out the absurdity
must be involved. The relinquishment
days preceding the World War bears
of such reports. Having carefulty
by the Powers of treaty guarantees.
striking testimony to this tendency.
weighed all considerations, not only of
which are of great material value to
The London Treaty puts an end to all
foreign policy, but also of naval, fim
them, and which they have so long
competition in naval construction for
ancial, eonomic and all the other fac-
enjoyed, rests on the implicit belief
that China will not make use of her
new position to modify her customs
tariff in such a way as to hamper or
to destroy her foreign trade. I feel
confident that China will live up to
her moral responsibility and prove
the duration of its validity. The value
of the Treaty lies, not only in such
of national burdens, but more especial-
ly in the moral influence it is bound
material advantages as the lessening
to exercise upon international rela-
tors of national strength, upon which
the security of a nation must, in the
final analysis, depend, we were brought
to the conclusion that, in accepting
we would decidedly be serving the ial
the terms of the agreement arrived at,
in her by the Powers.
herself equal to the trust thus placed
tions.
"The Treaty is intended to regulate
interests of this Empire.
"Before concluding my remarks, I
also provides for reciprocal engage-
ments to maintain specified rates of
"The proposed agreement with China
Trade Stability is Goal
the conditions to prevail until the
end of 1936. It is made clear that the
amount of naval strength to be al-
lowed to each Power after that period
shall be discussed and determined at
found appreciation of the loyalty and
may be permitted to express our pro-
tives of this country and all the mem.
devotion with which the'representa-
bers of the delegation-have for se-
duty upon a number of commodities
for certain periods of time. What
we naturally desire is the stability of
a conference to be held in 1935. In
respect of capital ships, the Treaty
stipulates that until the end of 1936.
veral months past saccessfully faced
the most difficult situations and the
tremendous pressure of work invo!ved
our trade with China. We cannot be
the signatories shall not exercise their
in the London Conference."
expected to remain indifferent to fre-
right to lay down the keels of replace-
quent and radical changes in the Chi-
ment tonnage provided for by the
nese tariff. China on her part finds
Washington Treaty; and, further, that
it equally important to secure a mar-
the British Commonwealth of Nations
ket in Japan for certain classes of
shall dispose of five capital ships, the
Chinese manufactures. These mutual
desires have given rise to a scheme
one. Regarding auxiliary craft, the
United States of three, and Japan of
of reciprocal undertakings in regard
total amount of tonnage to be pos-
to customs tarifs. The arrangement
sessed by Japan will be less by ap-
marks a step forward towards the full
proximately fifty thousand tons than
realization of the principle of solidar-
her existing strength. And yet the
ity between Japan and China, and is
strength which we shall actually re-
but a natural outcome of the specially
tain at the date of the Conference of
close economic relations existing be-
1935 does not materially differ from
tween the two nations. Needless to say,
that which we originally proposed,
it does not in any way infringe upon
alike in the eight-inch gun cruiser
the customs' autonomy of either na-
class and in the total tonnage of aux-
tion. On the contrary, it is nothing
iliary craft.
more than a normal exercise of State
"It is true that the tonnage of
sovereignty.
submarines has been reduced con-
"We further propose, in accordance
siderably below the figure we propos-
with our settled poliey, to proceed to
ed for ourselves, but our strength in
the discussion with the (hinese Gov-
this category will maintain strict
ernment of other provision to be in-
parity with that of the British (om-
corporated in a new commercial treaty,
monwealth and the United States,
besides those which relate to customs
both of which have abandoned their
duties. It is sincerely hoped that
original demand for the total aboli-
through mutual appreciation by each
tion of submarines.
nation of the just and reasonable posi-
National Safety Assured
tion of the other, satisfactory progress
will be assured for these negotiations.
"These arrangements have now
"Preposterous Reports"
made it possible for us to economize
"It appears that recently, along with
in our naval expenditure, while the
the reappearane of signs of unrest
safety of our national defense is
on the political horizon of China, a
adequately assured for the duration
section of the press in that country
of the Treaty. None but extreme
has been disseminating reports, sug-
pessimists could possibly contend that
gesting that we had a hand in bring-
ing about that turn of events and
the amount of strength to be allotted
to Japan during the period ending in
1936 will prove fatally short of the
were engaged in the prosecution of
needs of our national security. Tak-
unworthy designs. Such accusations
ing fully into consideration the
are too preposterous to call for any
views of naval experts, we have
denial. It cannot be necessary to re-
finally adopted with firm conviction
affrm our known policy of fair and
the decision to join in the present
square dealing in China.
Treaty.
"At the last session of the Diet,
"It may be apprehended that. in
I stated that the Government had in
regard to the amount of naval
mind the conclusion of commercial ar-
strength to be possessed by Japan
rangements. as far as practicable,
after January 1937, the Conference
with those countries with which we
might place upon us restrictions
had as yet no such treaty relations.
similar to those imposed by the pre-
Egypt was then one of these countries.
sent treaty, involving a serious danger
Our trade with Egypt has increased
to our national security. It will.
apace since the World War both in
however, be conceded that the condi-
volume and importance, and the need
tions of the world are constantly
for a commercial arrangement with changing. What we attach the

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
Troo.are N
2
121
The Japm Advertiser.
y
Tokyo, Saturday, April 26, 1930.
Text of Premier's Speech
A translation of the Premier's Speech
follows:
"I deem it a great honor to be able
to outline for you the Government's
policies on the occasion of the open-
ing of the 58th session of the Im-
perial Diet here today.
"As you all know, the Government's
budget for the Fifth Year of Showa
failed to receive the approval of the
House of Representatives, due to the
dissolution. In accordance with the
revisions of the Constitution, the
Government was to put into force the
budget for the last fiscal year. The
Government has compiled a working
budget within the limits of that for
the last fiscal year and at the same
time has compiled an additional
budget that is urgently needed, and
is submitting the latter at the pre-
sent session.
"In regard to the Government's
foreign policies, I wish first of all
to touch on the London naval con-
ference. The conference which open-
ed there on January 21 has resulted
in the London Naval Treaty, which
was signed on April 22, after three
months of arduous effort on the part
of the delegates of all the nations
concerned.
"The Imperial Government carried
on negotiations with the other Pow-
ers solely on the principle that it
wished to maintain naval strength
necessary to national defense—a
strength which does not menace any
other nation, yet which does not per-
mit Japan to be menaced by any
other. It is fortunate indeed that an
agreement was reached and a treaty
concluded. As a result the national
tax burden will be lightened at home
and at the same time the friendly
relations between the nations par-
ticipating will be enhanced, while an
important contribution will be made
toward internationa! peace.
Sino-Japanese Treaty
"Next I should like to mention the
revision of the commercial treaty be-
tween Japan and China. Negotiations
for this were conducted in 1927 but no
progress was made owing to a variety
of cause. The Government, recogniz-
ing the necessity of settling this prob-
I.lem as soon as possible, enteied into
negotations with the Nanking Govern-
ment last January, taking up the tariff
problem. These negotiations made
such satisfactory progress that on
March 11 representatives of both na-
tions were able to initial an agree-
ment, which the Government has sub-
n itted to the Privy Council for Im-
perial Ratification.
"The conclusion of this tariff treaty
i really a matter for congratulation
both to Japan and China, because it
n.cans the realization of China's long-
standing desire for customs autonomy
and also the establishment of accord
on the tariff. to which Japan has at-
tached the greatest importance.
"Among the various domestie meas-
ures which have been introduced into
the House of Representatives, I wish
esperially to call your attention to the
hill providing for an increase in the
State subsidy for compulsory educa-
tion paid from the national treasury.
In view of present taxation conditions
the Government considers this in-
crease most urgently needed. There-
tore the Government has decided to
increase by Y10,000,000 the amount to
be paid from the national treasury,
bringing the toal amount for compul-
sory education to Y85,000,000. It will
thus be possible to make a reduction
in local taxes due to the surplus re-
sulting from the increase.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
Euclozare3
The Japan Mvertleer.
Depato
12!
Tokyo. Seturday. April 26, l9sb
Inouye's Address
"Since the gold shipment situation
The text of Finance Minister Inouye's
is dependent upon Japan's foreign
speech follows:
trade and invisible exports, efforts
"The working budget for the fiscal
will be made to improve the country's
year of 19s0 is almost identical with
foreign trade and increase invisible
the budget submitted to the 57th ses-
exports. Judging from the fact that
sion of the Diet but which failed to
Japan's excess imports have been de-
adopted, and is marked by the policy
creasing and that for more than 10
of readjustment and retrenchment
years Japan had been placed in an
which is embodied in it. The effort
unnatural financial position due to
to economize has resulted in the reduc-
the gold ban, it is not too much to
tion of the total amount of the previ-
say that conditions since the removal
ous budget by ¥125,400,000.
of the embargo have been smooth
"One of the most important items
and uneventful.
of the new budget is the increase in
the fund for the compulsory education
Present Depression
by ¥10,000,000, the money to be paid
"Regarding present financial condi-
out of the national treasury. The total
tions in the country, I can say that
amount of the education fund, as a
depression has been the keynote since
result, reaches 85,000,000. The finan-
the fnancial reaction of 1920, and in
cial burdens of the local governments
the face of the increasing depression,
affected will be lightened proportion-
no fundamental readjustment has been
ately.
made. The regulation of currency was
"The coming tariff revision is ex-
also found impossible due to the en-
pected to result in a decrease of v300,-
forcement of the gold embargo.
000 in custom revenue, and this fact
"As a result, prices did not fall as
is taken into account in the budget.
was desired, exports made a poor show-
There are many custom duties based
ing and imports failed to decrease,
on the policy of protecting home in-
making the country's debt and credit
dustries, and some of these at pres-
situation increasingly unfavorable. The
ent give excessive protection to the
specie held abroad decreased and the
local industries while others have out-
yen went down. Unless fundamental
lived their usefulness.
financial rehabilitation is enforced at
"With a view to revising these
this time, the restoration of Japan's
tariff some time ago we submitted an
finances will be hopeless.
inquiry to the Tariff Investigation
"While making proper readjustment
Commission, from which we have re-
at home on the one hand, we must
ceived a reply. On the basis of the
cultivate our export markets in for-
information given us by the commis-
eign countries and send superior and
sion we have decided to revise the
low-priced goods abroad on the other.
tariff on cotton yarns and a few other
We also must encourage the manufac-
goods. A bill to this effect will be
ture of home-made goods, induce the
introduced at the present session of
people to patronize home products,
the Diet.
promote local industries and thus bring
Exchange Stabilized
prosperity to the nation.
The removal of the gold embargo
"The people have an unusually clear
has stabilized the exchange situation,
understanding of this great task and
checking the wide fluctuation of prices
we recognize that they ure endeavoring
attendant upon the rise and fall of
to assist in that direction. The Gov-
the yen. The total amount of gold
ernment is taking proper measures for
sent abroad since the removal of the
the rationalization of industries, the
ban on January 11 is Y195,000,000.
eneouragement of exports and the en-
This sum, however, includes money
couragement of the use of home-made
which had come into Japan before the
goods. Such being the situation, we
removal of the ban for speculative
firmly believe that the country will
purposes. The rest comprises pay-
weather the present crisis and attain
ments of foreign loans and funds to
prosperity."
settle imports accounts.
"The first stage of outward gold
shipments having ended and the in-
terest rates in England and America
having become low. the gold ship-
ments of recent weeks have dwindled
considerably, until at present very lit-
the is going out of the country.
"In Japan the first half of the year
usually records excess imports and
the last half excess exports. As a
result, it is inevitable that gold should
be shipped at this time. If excess
exports are recorded in the last half
of the year, as is likely, gold will
either be returned to Japan or be
held abroad by exchange banks.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
hcle B
MET
GREEE JAN 22 1?31
my
LEdeS BurouTROM
1-1836
Toko
DVISO OF
RNURIVEJ
WESTLHN EUHUPEAN AFFATBS
JAN 2 1 1931
Dated-January
10N23 1581
W Divis on of
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTIRN AFFAIRS
B94.032/94
JAN 21 1931
Washington
DEPARTMENT OF X1A1
9, January 21, 6 p.m.
C.
The Foreign Office has sent me a copy of the
annual address which the Minister for Foreign Affairs
will deliver before the Diet tomorrow.
He will refer to the importance of the Naval
Treaty in stabilizing relations between the three
powers and in facilitating the work of the next con-
fernce in 1935.
The greater part of the address will be devoted
FILED
to a reiteration of the Minister's liberal policy to-
wards China, of references to the progress made by
the Nationalist Government in establishing itsclf
and bringing about reforms in China, and to the need
of patience and understanding in the adjustment of
relations with that country.
He will express the determination of Japan to
preserve its fishing rights in Russian waters and will
conolude

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
NET
3-#9, Tokio, January 21, 1931.
conolude with the following statement:
"On the question of the United States immigration
law which for the past seven years has been weighing
heavily on popular sentiment in this country there is
no longer any doubt that our position is now fully
understood and appreciated by a majority of the Amerioan
people. We shall watch further developments of the
question with unimpassioned but keen interest".
FORBES
WWC

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
AM RECD
EMBASSY OF THE
EE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 27, 1931.
E
No. 127.
Division of
FAR EASTERO AFFAINS
31
Eo11 1931
ClpumFE
894.032/95
FEB16
FILED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/.
I have the honor to transmit herewith a trans-
lation of Baron Shidehara's speeoh as Foreign
Minister before the Diet on January , 1931, as
appearing in the Japan Chronicle.
As soon us an comme..t of interest to our
Government appeurs in the local press, I shall not
fail

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
fail to report it to the Department.
Respectfully yours,
Enolosure:
W. Cameron Forbes.
1. Clipping
from the Japan
Chronicle.
Oopy to Peking.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
Prclosure No.
anatch No. 127
on American Embassy
The Japan Chroniele
Tokyo.
Lobe, daturday, Jannary 24, 1931.
THE IMPERIAL DIET.
"Mr. Hamaguchi, the Premier, met wi
a misfortune on November 14th last yem
and is now recuperating. I am happy to
say that he is making favourable progress
and is expected to be able to attend the
MINISTERIAL SPEECHES ON HOME AND FOREIGN
Diet in the near future. I have been ap-
AFFAIRS AND FINANCE.
pointed Premier ad interim under Article
8 of the Cabinet Regulations, and now
have the honour to state the outlines of
the Government policy in the Diet.
BARON SHIDEHARA'S REVIEW.
"The London Naval Treaty came into
force on the 31st ultimo, and it is a mat-
ter of sincere congratulation that through
the co-operation of the three big Naval
S usual, the chief feature of the first : that the National Government is actually
Powers of the world, a fresh guarantee
day on which the Imperial Diet as- following the trail once blazed by Japan
has been added to international peace. It
sembled for business, was the speeches
in her struggle to emerge from a position
is an important duty of the Powers con-
by the Premier, Foreign Minister and
of international inequality. For all suc-
cerned to try not only to maintain
Finance Minister, reviewing the present
cess in such endeavours, we offer our
the material and spiritual effects of the
position and the immediate prospects.
sincere gocd wishes, and we are willing
pact but to develop them. This is also the
Baron Shidehara, as Acting Premier, had
to render our co-operation, as far as
desire of the whole world.
two of these speeches to make. The
possible, towards the furtherance of
"The civil commotion in China, Japan's
official translation of his speech as For-
that end. In fact, it has now be-
neighbour. terminated last autumn, and
eign Minister follows:
come increasingly frequent for vari-
the Chinese Government is now doing its
THE NAVAL TREATY.
ous departments of to apply to us
for information, on matters relating to
form all branches of administration. The
best to restore order at home and to re-
"The event which has exercised the
education, military and naval equipment,
peace and unity of the Chinese Republic
most decisive influence upon our foreign
police organisation, communications, local
is not only desirable for the happiness
relations during the last twelve months
self-government and other branches of
of the Chinese people but universally wel-
was the conclusion of the London Naval
administrative activity. In each case, we
comed by the Powers. The Japanese Go-
Treaty. The ratifications of that Treaty
have been extending to the Chinese every
vernment has always attached much im-
were duly deposited on October 27th last
facility at our disposal in order to satisfy
portance to friendship with that country
by Japan, the United Stat's and all the
their desires. When China seriously
and is mindful of closer future relations.
Members of the British Commonwealth of
proceeds with constructive reforms of gov-
Japan's relations with the Western Powers
Nations with the exception of the Irish
ernment, and, in particular, affords due
are in a satisfactory state. and it may
Free State. On December 31st, the Irish
and effective protection to the persons,
ccnfidently be expected that they will
Free State having also effected the same
procedure, the Treaty came into frce as
property and legitimate economic pursuits
of the native and foreign population with-
grow even more intimate in future.
between Japan, the United States and the
in her borders, and when her interna-
REDUCED EXPENDITURE AND NAVAL
British Empire. Its full text was then
officially published and the merits of its
tional obligations are satisfactorily dis-
charged.—then. indeed. will the so-called
BUILDING.
various features were discussed at great
unequal treaties naturally lose the founda-
"In drawing up the Budget for the fiscal
length during the last session of the Diet,
tion on which they rest. and it admits
year 1931-1932, the Government, in view of
so that no repetition of those d.scussions
of no doubt that in such an event all the
the prevailing financial situation and the
will now be needed. I desire, however, to
foreign Powers will cheerfully agree to
state of national revenue, has made the
say a few words on the moral effect pro-
the relinquishment of the existing excep-
biggest possible reduction in expenditure
duced by the new agreement. It is in-
tional regime.
already voted and taken care not to
deed impossible to over-estimate the signi-
THE IMMEDIATE PROBLEMS.
sanction any new enterprises unless they
ficance of the part which the London
are of imperative necessity. In spite of
Treaty has played in stabilising the inter-
"Japan and China have built up their
this financial difficulty, the Government
national situation. It put an end to the
existing close and complex relations. in
has laid down a naval replenishment pro-
possibility of a competition among these
the poitical and economic sphcres, with
gramme. spread over a few years from
will. without a doubt be readily appre-
next Naval Conference which is to meet
which had taxed the highest statecraft
between the participating Powers in all
and abroad. This fortunate result can-
not fail to facilitate the work of the
in 1935. Upon a general diffus'on of this
sort of moral consciousness among man-
kind must depend, in the final analysis.
three great naval Powers in auxiliary craft
of which ominious signs had been loom-
ference. It inspired in a marked degree
a sense of mutual trust and helpfulness
phases of their intercourse—a fact which
ciated by all those who keep in touch
the peace and progress of the world.
It settled once for all a tangled problem
since the days of the Washington Con-
with the trend of public opinion at home
ing on the horizon for some years past.
any resort to propaganda or threats by
the varying conditions of the world, and
cesses and methods can any such re-
one. In the treatment of such problems,
no useful purpose whatever, and will lead
nowhere but to fresh complications. Only
by mutual co-operation in an endeavour
particularly in view of new developments
arising to modify the situation as it exists
between the two countries! By what pro-
adjustments be best effected? I feel con-
held by our people are fundamentally at
either party against the other can serve
an historical background extending over a
considerable number of years. Among the
numerous elements constituting this rela-
our own national ex.stence and not sus-
ceptible of alteration?what matters are
open to readjustment in accordance with
fident that on these questions the opinions
tionship, what are the factors essential to
to the amount of about 9.000,000 in the
new fiscal year and about ¥25,000.000 each
been rendered possible by the conclusion
of the Naval Treaty. With regard to loan
issues, the policy pursued in the previous
fiscal year is in general to be maintained.
except for the supension of the transfer,
for the time being. of the German repara-
ment has also taken steps to reduce taxes
struction of warships. a stop which hs
gramme aims at the completion of such
fence will be complete.
fostering national resources, the Govern-
in later fiscal years up to 1936-1937 with
part of the fund reserved for the con-
the new fiscal year, with a view to ensur-
ing the security of the State. This pro-
items as are really important. When it is
finished, all essentials of national de-
"Cognisant of the urgent necessity of
CHINA'S CIVIL WAR.
mon welfare combined with a generous
to discover the true bases of their com-
tions money to the national sinking fund.
Seeing. however. that relief of unemploy-
"In the course of May and June last,
and sympathetic understanding of each
ment is a crying need of the moment, the
the theatre of civil warfare if China
other's points of view, can all issues be-
way has been opened for some modifica-
began to extend to the Province of Shan-
tween the two nations be satisfactorily
tion of the restrictions hitherto imposed
tung, and the Japanese residents at
set at rest. and the true interests of both
on the issue of loans by local governments
Tsinan and in the district eastward along
parties promoted. It is with this settled
in favour of works intended for this pur-
the Kiauchau-Tsinan Railway were re-
conviction that we are guiding the course
pose. The necessity being also recognised
peatedly exposed to danger. Fortunately.
of our relations with China. The long
of some plans being framed by the State
however, our Consular officials and coun-
pending question of indemnities for both
in the same direction. the arrangement
trymen rose to the occasion, and through
the Nanking and Hankow incidents has
has been made to issue loans. besides the
their united timely efforts, coupled with
been virtually settled. On the subject of
sum already fixed. in both the general
the efficient measures of protection which
the Shanghai-Nagasaki and the Tsingtau-
and the special accounts for one fiscal
were taken on the part of both belligerent
Saseho cables which constitute two impor-
year only. Lest these issues should put
forces no Japanese subject was killed or
tant lines of communication between
pressure on the financial world. the Go-
wounded, nor was any serious damage
Japan and China, ardous negotiations ex-
vernment has decided to refrain from
done to Japanese property. At about the
tending over several months with the
putting them on the open market.
same time, the so-called "communist
object of replacing the old agreement by a
bandits" overran various parts of China.
new one have also been brought to a
FINANCIAL REFORM.
minated in the Changsha incident. For
a short period, chaotic conditions obtained
vinces, and their predatory'activities cul-
in those localities. In August, however,
especially the Central and Bouthern Pro-
successful close.
churia, there are various questions which
"With regard to the railways in Man-
THE POSITION IN MANCHURIA.
Japan cannot be free from it. It is part-
icularly important for the Government
for the financial world generally. When
the business depression is world-wide,
"The year 1930 was a very difcult one
a sudden turn of events presented itself,
have been for a number of years left un-
and the people to take a strong resolve
eventual estbalishment of peace and unity
and once more cleared the way for the
throughout the country. It was a welcome
chanee. hoth in. the interest of China and
to reneat that we have no intention of
solved. We now propose to exert every
endeavour to settle them on the lines
clearly indicated. It is needless for me
sees the necessity of harmonising the
to tide over the present diffculty with an
indomitable spirit. The Government also

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
set at rest, ana tne true vets o w
Tsinan and in the district eastward along
the Kiauchau-Tsinan Railway were re-
conviction that we are guiding the course
pose. The necessity being also recognised
peatedly exposed to danger. Fortunately,
of our relations with China. The long
of some plans being framed by the State
however, our Consular offcials and coun-
pending question of indemnities for both
in the same direction, the arrangement
trymen rose to the occasion, and through
the Nanking and Hankow incidents has
has been made to issue loans, besides the
their united timely efforts, coupled with
been virtually settled. On the subject of
sum already fixed, in both the general
the effcient measures of protection which
the Shanghai-Nagasaki and the Tsingtau-
and the special accounts for one fiscal
were taken on the part of both belligerent
Saseho cables which constitute two impor-
year only. Lest these issues should put
forces no Japanese subject was killed or
tant lines of communication between
pressure on the financial world. the Go-
wounded, nor was any serious damage
Japan and China, ardous negotiations ex-
vernment has decided to refrain from
done to Japanese property. At about the
tending over several months with the
putting them on the open market.
same time, the so-called "communist
object of replacing the old agreement by a
bandits" overran various parts of China.
new one have also been brought to a
FINANCIAL REPORM.
especially the Oantral and Southern Pro-
successful close.
"The year 1080 was a very diffouks ome
THE POSITION IN MANCHURIA.
"With regard to the railways in Man-
in those looaltles. In August, however,
shuria, there are various questions which
a sudden turn of events presented iteelf.
and once more dleared the way for the
eventual estbalishment of peace and unity
from the standpoint of the general situa-
throughout the country. It was a welcome
change, both in the interest of China and
tion in the Far East.
have been for a number of years left un-
seeking anything like unfair and selfish
solved. We now propose to exert every
to repeat that we have no intention of
terms of settlement in disregard of China's
endeavour to settle them on the lines
clearly indicated. It is needless for me
and the people to take a strong resolvé
to tide over the present diffoulty with am
indomitable spirit. The Government also
sees the necessity of harmonising the
State administration with the sharply de-
creased national expenditure, and of re-
forming the present administrative system
CONSTRUCTIVE WORK IN CHINA.
legitimate position. Nor can it be believed
to bring it into line with the present state
her onward march. We can well conceive
how much patience and courage Chinese
statesmen are called upon to exercise, and
fold diffculties lying ahead of China in
what a generous measure of friendly co-
operation they find necessary, in their
tremendous efforts to overcome the obs-
tacles in China's path. An encouraging
"We are not unmindful of the mani-
were contemplated, would hardly be cap-
able of ultimate realisation. As regards
sign to reduce the South Manchuria Rail-
way to ruin. Such a scheme, if ever it
lity has often in the past been turned into
misapprehensions entertained by the
that China, on her part, harbours a de-
the state of things in Chientao on the
borders of the Korean frontier, that loca-
a haunt of lawless adventurers, and the
of national economy. The taxation system
a view to reforming administration,
calls for revision in many respects. With
country and ensuring a fair incidence of
strengthening the financial basis of the
and taxation readjustment early next
fiscal year. Readjustment here does not
taxes. the Government intends to create
Commissions on administrative, financial
leaders have recently been making it a
feature of the situation is that the Chinese
point to identify themselves, in unequivo-
cal terms, with the cons.ructive work of
Chinese local authorities as to the disin-
unrest prevailing in that district which
terested nature of our motives have been
largely responsible for the conditions of
merelv mean economy. The true object
is to eliminate waste as the result of care-
ful investigation, to keep what is neces-
sary. and to devote the whole energy to
administration. For instance, General
have given rise to serious concern in this
industrial development and the execution
Chiang, President of the Government and
country. Of those disorders, a number
of social policy. so that the requirements
Commander-in-Chief, upon his triumph-
of our Korean fellow-subjects have been
of the times may be met.
ant return to Nanking, issued a proclama-
from time to time made victims. It is,
"The need of revising the pension
tion, in which he urged the importance of
however, gratifying to note that our recent
system has long been felt. and the matter
suppressing the bandits still active in
frank discussions with the Chinese autho-
cannot be neglected any longer. This
many parts of the country, and laid parti-
rities have steadily paved the way for
forms one important item of the ad-
cular stress on the re-adjustment of the
mutual understanding on both sides. The
ministrative readjustment which the
finances, the improvement of discipline in
Chinese local authorities have now come
Government has in view. With regard to
the public services, the encouragement of
to appreciate the urgent need for the
the reform of the army system. it has
foreign investment, and the acceleration of
suppression of banditry, and the general
heen receiving the aftention of the Milf-
local self-government. Further, the reso-
conditions have improved to a degree
tarv System Commission annointed hy the
lutions passed at the Fourth Kuomintang
which inspires a growing sense of secu-
military authorities in August 1929. As
Plenum provide for the convocation of a
rity among the resident Koreans.
quite recently the League of Nations has
National Assembly early in May next.
heen intending to call the regular Dis-
and proceed to state the immediate ob-
RUSSIAN RELATIONS.
armament Conference for the discussion of
jectives of administrative activity as being
"Turning to our relations with the
disarmament, land. sea and air. the Com-
the stabilisation of public order and
Soviet Union, I am happy to observe that
mission is continuing its lahours with due
security, the development of the national
the volume of trade between the two
regard to this new situation.
resources and the diffusion of education.
countries has in recent year; shown a
"In short. this is no time for wantonly
With reference to matters bearing on for-
tendency towards rapid advancement. It
expanding State expenditure. and starting
e'gn relations, the resolutions express the
has already trebled since he resumption
new enternrisesdiscriminatelv. The
t termination to abolish likin and to re-
of diplomatic relations in 1924. While
most urgent need of the moment is to
¿a,ust the domestic and foreign loans.
certain questions still remain undei dis-
foster national resource for the sake of
TRAIL BLAZED BY JAPAN.
cussion between the two Governments. we
are persuaded that the Soviet Government
future development. on the me hand. and
on the other. to consolidate the economic
"In the light of these repeated de-
is as ready as we are to compose them
and fipancial basis of the country.
clarations, it would seem that simultane-
in the light of the larger interests of
ously with the termination of internal
mutual friendship. For the solution of
strife, the National Government has
those questions, it rests with both parties
turned its attention to a line of policy
to discover an equitable basis of common
designed to consolidate the foundations of
accord, with due consideratior: of each
the Republic by the adoption of substan-
other's standpoints. As regards the fishery
tial and constructive administrative re-
rights of our people in Russian waters in
forms, and thus to secure for China her
the Far East, they owe their inc:ption
due position in the family of nations. If
to the Treaty of Portsmouth. That Treaty
this inference is justified, it may be said
is still in force, as explicitly provided for
in the Basic Treaty concluded at Peking
in 1924. Nor is there any reason 'to be-
lieve that the Soviet Government is ac-
tuated by any intention to render it
impossible in practice for Japanese to
exercise those rights. We are therefore
confidently looking forward to a suitable
adjustment of the fishery question.
WAITING FOR AMERICA TO SHOW
GOOD WILL.
"Our friendly relations with the na-
tions of Europe and America are entirely
satisfactory, and will, I am convinced.
continue to grow in strength. On the
question of the United Siates Immigra-
tion Law, which for the past seven years
has been weighing heavily on popular
sentiment in this country, there is no lon-
ger any doubt that our positior. is now
fully understood and appreciated by a lar-
ge majority of the American people. We
shall watch further developments of the
questin with unimpassioned but keen in-
terest."
PREMIER'S SPEECH.
READJUSTMENT WHICH MEANS
MORE THAN ECONOMY.
The speech delivered by Baron Shide-
hara as Premier ad interim in both Houses
on the 22nd instant was as follows:—

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.88)
EMBASSY OF THE
FE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 9, 1931.
o. 135.
Division of
he
FAR EASTEKN AFFAIRS
FEB 25 1981
1.20031
r.
TE
CupnTE
894.032/
9
alstnJourelry
20
of urnte
MR OASTLE
6
9
A 2 1931
FLTLE
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that the Diet assembled
on Jamuary 22nd after the usual New Year recess. Since the
reading of the annual address of the Prime Minister ad
interim and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, copies
of which were transmitted with the Embassy's despatch
740214
No. 127, of January 27, 1931, and of the Minister of
Finanoe, the time of both Houses has been largely taken
up with listening to interpellations. Progress towards
the examination of the Budget and of other legal measures
has

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
has been blooked for several days by a deadleek between
the two major political parties over a matter of trifling
importance; and it is by no mans unfair to say that the
present session has thus far accomplished less than usual.
Immediately after the Lower House reassembled, the Op-
position direoted an attaek, from the constitutional point-
of-view, upon a Government represented in the Diet by an
acting Prime Minister who has no political afriliations.
The representative of the Opposition expressed the opinion
that the provision of law whioh permits the appointment
of a Prime Minister ad interim does not contemplate the
replacement of the Prime Minister for any substantial
period of time. He further emphasized the argument that
the leadership of the Government by a person who is not
a member of any party is disoordant with the parliamentary
system of government. A motion by the Opposition to debate
the right of Baron Shidehara to address the House as Prime
Minister ad interim was then presented by the Opposition;
and the motion was immediately put to a vote and defeated
by a substantial margin.
A few days later two members of the Seiyukai were
forbidden to appear on the floor of the House as a penalty
for the comparatively venal offense of having struck the
speaker's desk with their fists.
These two instanoes have been intensely resented by
the Opposition as evidences of the Minseito's determinati on
summarily to crush any opposition. An opportunity for the
Seiyukai to take its revenge presented itself on February
3rd during a meeting of the Budget Committee of the Lower
House. It appears from the records that a member of the
Seiyukai

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Seiyukai had been askinga number of questions regarding the
adequaoy of the strength allotted to Japan by the London
Naval Treaty. These questions had been answered by Baron
Yabuki , the Parliamentary Vice Minister of Marine. The
interpellator commented somewhat ironioally on the unsatis-
factory nature of the replies which he had received, and
had indicated that he would put no further questions, when
Baron Shidehara arose and volunteered the following state-
ment:
" It is true that in the last session of the Diet,
both Mr. Hamaguchi, the Premier, and myself made
a statement to the effeot that we did not think
that the London Treaty endangered Japan's national
security. As a matter of fact, the Treaty has ben
ratified. The very fact that it has been ratified
is a clear testimony that it does not put national
defence in jeopardy".
The meeting at once fell into disorder, the Opposition
members demanding Baron Shidehara's immediate resignation,
as his statement could be construed to imply that the
Government had transferred its responsibility for the
Treaty to the Emperor. Baron Shidehara apparently saw
at once that he had made a serious slip, and declared
that the Government did not seek to avoid its oonstitutional
responsibility. The damage was done, however, and the
ohairman was obliged to adjourn the meeting. Several
attempts were subsequently made to reopen the meetings
of this Committee, but they were in each case defeated.
by scenes of unpreoedented disorder.
Elders of the two parties conferred upon the possi-
bility of finding a formula satisfactory to both sides,
and

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
and mediators have been working with much industry; but
the deadlock continues. I understand that Baron Shidehare
is anxious to withdraw the statement, but that the aders
of the Minseito take the view that his statement ipsissima
verba is not necessarily objeotionable, and that he should
therefore do nothing whioh would further embarrass the Party.
The Seiyukai, on the other hand, will not hear of a settlement
by a second declaration amplifying or explaining the first,
and insist upon nothing less than a complete retraction and
apology.
The press unites in condemning Baron Shidehara for
his statement as heartily as it denounces the disgraceful
scenes which have been taking place in the Diet. Baron
Shidehara's statement was obviously a slip of the tongue.
In addition to the duties of his proper portfolio and of
the duties of the Prime Minister, he had been spending
the greater part of each day attending bpth Houses and
answering interpellations for hours on end, during a period
of almost two weeks. He was obviously extremely fatigued,
and on this particular ocoasion he appears to have been
visibly annoyed by the interpellator, a former naval
officer. No one doubts that it was a piece of inadvertence;
nevertheless, it has brought about an impasse which may lead
to serious consequences unless the Budget can be passed
by the Lower House and placed in the hands of the House of
Peers by the l7th instant, as required by law.
Most observers are agreed that the present unfortunate
state of affairs is due entirely to the ineptness and in-
experience of the Minseito. The Minseito has thus far been
the minority Party for most of the time, and, as at present
oonstituted

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
eeastituted, about two-thirds or its members have never
before been in Parliament . Enthused by the victory of the
last general eleotions, and somwhat unbalanced by the
pessibility of exeroising power, these new members seem de-
termined to override opposition with a high hand. The Minseito
might well have permitted a debate on the constitutionality
of the appointment of Baron Shidehara as Prime Minister ad
interim, as the arguments which it could have adduced to
support the appointment are quite as good as those advanced
against it, to say nothing of the confidence which it could
place in its substantial majority of votes. Similarly, it
might well have refrained from inflicting a relatively severe
penalty for a comparatitely trivial offense. Instead of erring
upon the side of liberality whioh it might well have afforded
to do by reason of its safe margin of power, and allowing the
Seiyukai to indulge in profitless argumentation, it acted
with a perverseness which appears to have brought its own reward.
However, the genius of the Japanese for compromise should not be
overlooked in a situation of this sort, and it is still premature
to attaoh serious importance to the present diffioulty.
The disoussions in both Chambers, on the foreign policies
of the Government, have not been of much interest. There have
been several references to the so-called American Exolusion
Question, the Naval Conference at London, and relations with
China and Russia. As soon as stenographio reports of the pro-
ceedings of the several committees can be collooted, reports
on these respective subjects will be prepared and forwarded
to the Department.
Respeotfully yours,
Eugone H. Dooman
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
May 1, 1931.
The session of the Japanese Diet,
ended March 27, was not notable for the
amount of work accomplished. Several
important sooial measures introduoed by
the Government,- to regulate trade and
labor unione, to ad just the position of
tenant farmers, and to revise the Eleo-
tion Law partially to enfranohise women,-
failed passage.
In addition to the budget 64 new
laws were passed,-inoluding a group of
bills for the revision of the land tax,
business profits tax, sugar consumption
tax and text ile consumption tax,and
also a group of laws intended to improve
social conditions,- such as the poor
relief law, relief of the unemployed and
other social legislation.
The revision of the land tax gave
rise to considerable disoussion. Únder
the former system land was divided for
purposes of tax into two classes; first,
farm and forest lands, two, residential
lands, whioh were assessed at prices
far below the ir market value. Under the
new system the distinction between farm
lands and residential lands has been re-
moved and the land tax will be assessed
at 3 8/10 per cent of the net rental
value of the property, thus tend ing to
equalize the inoidence of the tax on
lands irrespective of the use to which
they are put.
Rum.
(Desoatch No. 191, April 10, 1931,
from Tokyo)

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.90)
EBASSY OF THE
FE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Apri1 10, 1931.
No. 191.
Divislun 
APH 27 1931
0731
MB
F
OAFE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
894.032/97
17931
DEPALMENC
193
FITLA
The onorable
The Secretary of State,
ashington.
Sir:
I nuve the honor to re:ort that the Fifty-Ninth
Session or the iet, which wus uxtended by tvo days,
ended on .arch z7th.
The amount of business transacted will not make
this one of the historic sessions. it is said that
it can claim one "record", unu t at is, of being the
most prolix. There were several important social
measures introuuceu by the Govermnent- bills to
regulate trade and labor unions, to adjust and re ulute
the

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
the position of tenant farmers, and to revise the Eleotion
Law partially to enfranchise women; but none of them was
enaoted. In audition to the budget, sixty-four new laws
were passed, but it is fairly safe to predict that the
session just ended will be remembered more for the inoident
- us the apanese see it-
arising out of the unfortunate manner in which the Minister
for Foreign Affairs brought the Emperor into the question
of the propriety of Japan's adherence to the Treaty of London,
than for the business actually transacted.
There are two groups of new laws, however, which me rit
some notioe.
As the Embassy reported on several occasions last year,
the Government had been c eating a reserve fund of. over 5o0
million yen to be expended over a period of five years be-
ginning with the current fiscal year, for the construction
of new warships and for the maintenance in other ways of the
naval forces. It will be recalled that the Government decided
eventually to devote about 37o million to the Navy and apply
the remainder to fulfilling one of the avowed purposes of
naval limitation- to decrease taxation. It, therefore, pre-
sented to the Diet bills for the revision or the land tax,
business prorits tax, sugar consumption tax, and textile
consumption tax. These bills ere passed, us was also a bill
authorizing the issuance of bonds to be applied to the
relief of laborers'discharged from navy yards on account of
the Lon.on Naval Ireaty".
The other important group of laws are intended prinoipally
to improve social conditions. .he first o. these is the Poor
Relief

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Relief Law, whioh authorizes the Government to apply, through
the various local governments, not more than six million yen
annually to persons over sixty-five and less than thirteen
years of age, physical and mental defectives, and women with
child, who are without relations obligated by law to give
support. Thirty sen may be granted daily to each person as
a ration allowance, while in case of illness the cost of
medical care is to be borne by the State. The law further
permits the State to advance not more than loo yen to any
individual who desires to carry on a petty trade or to
farmers for the purchase of implements. The funds to carry
out the purposes of tnis law will be further amplified by
increased custom revenues to be brought about by a raising
of the tariff on lumber and rayon. ith the purpose of re-
lieving the unemployed, the issuance of bonds in the sum of
22 million yen has been authorized. The proceeds, together
with an appropriation of 1s million yen irom the exchequer,
will be used for the building of railvays. Other pieces of
social legislation deserving nention is a law for the con-
pensation of innocent persons wo huve suffered imprisonient
on a criminal charge, anu a lul. requiring an employer to
reemploy any person vho has comyleted his tern of service
with the colors. .he latter contains no penal clause, as it is
expected that a moral sanction will be sufricient to protect
discharged soldiers.
ther bills which were passed include a revision of the
Law of author's Rights, us explaineu in the abassy's despatch
No. 1381,

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
No. 1351, dated December 2, 1929. A translation of the new
law will be forwarded to the Department in the near future.
The Diet also took favorable aotion on a Goverrment bill
exempting the International Reparations Bank from taxation.
It does not appear necessary to desoribe the daily pro-
ceedings in the Diet, as a report has already been forwarded
on the discussions regarding the Ireaty of London, and as,
further, & large amount of time was devoted to bills which
failed of passage or which were without political significance.
No review of the session would be complete, however, without
reference to the debates over the revision of the lund tax.
Until 1872, land was consiuered to be the property of
the crown and coulu not be held in fee simple, but in that
year an imperial decree eirected what is known as the "en-
franchisement or the soil". a year later, a cadastre was made
of land throu hout the mpire and the price of each piece of
property was fixed by calculating the value or the principal
amount fron the annual rental vhich had up to that time been
paiu in rice. he land tax wus then fixed as about three per
cent(depenuin upon the registurea classification, of the value
of the land as fixed in that, anu subsequent, caaastres. actual
land values ure almost enerally throughout the towns anu cities
many times greater tnan their registe ed values. Large areas
throughout the city of Tokyo, for example, are registereu us
forest and farm lund, ith a registered value or & few yen
per tsubo , vhile they re now residentiul lund with a market
value of perhaps a hundred times their registered value. on
the other hand, far.: land has not a. preciated in value to any-
thin.: like the sae extent.
This inequality has lon been a
cause

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
cause of complaint by the rural communities.
Ihe nev. law is a definite departure. It establishes
the land tax as 3.8 per cent of the amount which the owners
were to receive if the land v.ere leased, after deducting
taxes, cust of upkeep, and other expenses arising out of
ownership. Thus no distinction will be made in the uses to
which the land will be put, and one of the principal criticisms
of the old law- that it peraitted land to be registered in the
lower tax classification at far below its actual value- will
be avoided. The law furtner provides for a board of land
assessors or appraisers vhich is to determine the rental
value of land.
It was brought out in the debates that the efrect of the
new law would be to bring about an increase, as compared with
present assessnents, of about 6 million in the tax on land
situated in urban comnunities and a decrease of about 18
million in the tax on agricultural land. The nett decrease of
about lz nillion yen each year will thus represent about 60 per
cent or the savings made possible by the London Treaty which the
Goverrmnent desired to turn back to the people. The remaining
40 per cent will be mude u: by the above- entioned decreuses
in the business prorits,textile consumption,and sugar con-
sumption taxes.
as can be perceived, the burden o. the reduction of the
land tax will fall on the urban land-ovners, who tre very
strongly represented in the House of Peers. The bill was
carried

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
carried up to this Chamber comparatively late in the session,
and was severely condemned, the Peers denanding an equalization
of the reduction. The last day of the session arrived with a
complete deadlock with the Government which extended the
session by two days in the hope that the Feers might be
brought to terms. The press severely condemned the attitude of
this Chamber, and public opinion was so strongly in favor of
the bill that the opposition finally broke down and per-
nitted its passage without amend.nent.
The attempt on the life of the Prime Minister had a
serious repercussion in the viet und on the political.
situation as a whole. The opposition strongly objected to the
legality of the procedure by which the Government wus led in
the Diet by a prime minister pro tempore ; and although the
Governnent forces argued that it had the sanction of both
law and precedent, the incident arising out of the use by
Baron Shidehara of the Emp ror's nume in connection with
the rutification or the Lonuon Treaty, appurently made it
necessary for r. amuguchi t resume his uuties berore he
had recuperated.
e uppeared on the fl or or the Lower House
for the first time on march loth, nd was treated b the
opposition on that occasion it: surpris ng c nsiderution.
Durin; subsecuent appearunces, however, he was unavoidably
drawn into the debates, wnd he vas pulpably in no c nuition
to carry his responsibilities.
he fuctional rivalries ithin the Minseito, hich were
so clearly evident i me diutely after the a tenpted ussussination
of

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
-7-
of Mr. Hamaguohi, again revealed themselves. The notorious
Bukichi Miki, who was involved a few years ago in Tokyo
Municipality soandals and who is one of the influential
me mbers of the Minseito, has been heading one faction which
fears a disruption of the party if r. hamaguohi were retired;
a seoond group auvocates the replacement of r. Hamaguchi
by ir. Adachi, the inister of Home Afrairs, while the third
faction, which once supported Dr. Egi, the Linister of
Railways, has joined with a smaller group which wishes
General Ugaki to assume the presidenoy of the party and the
prime ministership.
r. Hamaguchi surfered a relapse a few days ago and
underwent a third operation, which was orficially announced
as having been successful. ihere is, however, a significant
sign of an existing or an impenaing political crisis- the
hurried visiting back and forth of important personages.
Indeed, an extra issue this arternoon stateu that uhe cabinet
had resolved this mornin to resign en bloc and that .r.
Wakatsuki woula be inviteu to form a new Governnent. If
this report proves correct, it can only ..ean that .r.
Wakatsuki, who does not, I believe, desire further political
honors, has been uraftea to preserve the party irom serious
dissension.
Respectfully yours,
Jrhe
". Cameron Forbes.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/98
894.00 PR/40
FOR #192
SEE
Japan( Torbes) DATED Apr.10. 1931.
FROM
TO
NAME
-1172
REGARDING:
hasty legislation at the close of the 59th session
of the Diet.
mb/

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.89)
The soth sessien of the Diet wes to have elesed
on Marek ssth but due to the failure of the Keuse of
.U
Peere to pass the Tax Retmstiem Mll a twe-day
prelangatiem wae found to be mecessary. Ls 1s
usually the case, beth ehambers of the Legislature
passed one bill after another with almost indie-
oriminate haste just before the end of the messlem.
The esaulon camu to a elose on Saturday, Mareh motm
with the ceremeay preregatien. Le Premier Hamegeens
was too weak, due to the atrain of having astended
several sessions of the Diet, he was unable te ay-
pear fer the slesing seremsny, and Gemeral Ugaki,
Limister of War, whe helde the menlority emene the
Ministers, read the Imperial Kaiet elesing the
Besslon.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 5, 1932.
Tokyo Enbassy's despatoh No. 474,
dated February 8, 1932, transmitting
addresses of the Prime Minister,
the Foreign Minister, and the Finance
Minister, delivered be ore the Imperial
Diet on January 21, 1932.
The speech of the Prime Minister clearly
implies that the defense of Japanese rights
and interests is the first consjderation, and
that the Open Door Policy must be interpreted
or shaped along the line of the more funda-
mental polioy.
The Foreign Minister ated that the
anti-Japanese movement in China, aided by the
Chinese autorities, was the basis for the
friction which developed into a situation
where Japan was forced to take action. He
gave an assurance that Japan would "uphol? the
princ iples    o.1 opportunity".
RPB/

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.94)
WE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 8, 1932.
No. 474.
F/HS
Division of
FAR FASTERN
MAR4 1932
894.032/99
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAR 14 1932
WESTERN EURUPEAN AFFAIRS
DIVISION UF
The Honoruble
The Secretury of State,
a hi;ton.
Sir:
1-/.
1 nave the h nor herewith to transmit trunslations
 i u iresses r the rrime inistor, the Forein inister,
d o the sinunce i ister,  iverei at the ooth Sesion
 the I erial Diet, on Junuury 21, 19...
Hr. Tnukai, the Frime inieter, wus the ri st  ker,
uni u lined the policies  the new Goverment. Ept
for cne point his speech is not re rkusle uha culls for
little c unt. I shull, hovever, tuke up the mutter of
the Seiyukai lovernment's olicies, touched upon in r.
Imakui's

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
Inukai's speech, in a later desputch, in the event of a
Seiyukai victory in the coming general election.
The point of interest to Americans in the Premier's
speech is the statement: " Japan does not entertain any
territorial ambition aainst neighboring countries. What
Japan desires is that the tre ties now in force shall be
respected and tat the ri hts and interests already ac-
quired (in manchuria) shall be protected. The rinciple
of the open door in Manchuria , which forms the back-bone
of Japan's policy must be bused upon these, primary, principles".
The fi urutive lunguage used is di ficult of translation
und very vague. Hoever, the meunin: cleurly implies tnat
the defence of Ja unese ri hts una interests is the first
consideration, unu tnut the opel. Door Policy ust be inter-
2
preted or shaped alon. the line of the more fundalentul
olicy.
The Premier's ex sition o the Open Joor Folicy is
not exuctly the sume thut of the Forei n Minister, which
f:l:owed.
The peech o" the new Forei n inister, r. Yoshicawa,
is c oncurned muinl wit the nchurian situation. r.
Yoshinau veices the usnul Ju nese v ew ith re urd to
mehuria, pointin t tne vitul importunce or that reion
to Jupan n to the ri t md interests which Japun has
secured by tr uty or by contruct und which were threutened
oy thinese nisconduct or luck of oo. fuith. a consi eruble
ortien  is s ch is concerned with the as ects or the
anti- mese move nt in hina f wich the chinese uu-
thorities re plumed. This  ove unt, he suates, was the
basic cuise or the riction nich uveloped int situation
Where Japan mus Percei t take action. He declures that a
solution

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
olution of the questions pending between the two countries
must await a complete change of heart and reversal of policy
on the part of china.
The most important part of Lir. Yoshizawa's speech, from
the American viewpoint, is that in whicn he states" " I desire
to aid a word in the connection to make it clear that Japan
harbors no territorial designs in ianchuria nd that she will
uphold the principles of the open door and equal ooportunity....".
This statement in r urd to the "open door" gives an as urance
that was lacking in the Japanese Goverrment's reply to the
Embassy's note of January 8, 1931, und oes uch beyond that
...ade by the Pre.mier.
Little roference is mude to the other Powers exeept in
way o. assing co.ment. r. Yoshizawa notes ith becoming
modesty that " We have succe ded through a careful und complete
presentation of ur case in brin ing them( the United States
and the League of Nations) to a better a preciution or the
position or Jupan und or the vital interests which she possesses
in Manchuria".
A short aruraph, nic. ux resses the sati f ction of
the Jup nese gover ment to aru tae atti ude or Soviet Russia
in the  anc uriun embroglio, is rugurded us huving consiuuraule
signicicance. I luv. tuucited on the stuject of Japan's re-
lations with oviet ussia in a se urute despatch(lo. 47c,
of January 30, 1952).
WE
As for the Disaraament Conference, the F reign inister
states that derinite instructions huve veen given Jupan's
representatives and " e will,  c urse, trive to curry our
points". e expresses the hepe, however, that the snference
will
713.3737
For text vide mbussy's i s utch No. 4ol of Junuary lo, 19.:

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.94)
-4-
will produce tangible results in the direction of
world peaoe.
The speech of the Foreign Minister is noteworthy
for its omission of any reference to the American im-
migration exclusion lavs. In the past a refere ce to
this matter has featured the speeches delivered by the
Foreign Minister at the openin of the iet.
The hird Goveriment speaker before the piet was
Finunce .inister Takahashi. Because of the iaportance
of the Goverment's financial policy ut the present time,
the Japunese press devoted uch more attention to t is
speech than to those of the Prenier and Foreign MMinister.
I have included an unofiicial translation of Mr. Takuhashi's
speech in the a pendices t. this uesputch.
The press criticices this speech us being rather
an attack on the policies or the preceding ministry than
an ex osition o. the policies of the new Government. The
SAHI declures that the s eech is lore bellicose than con-
vincing. he urgument t Jupan s losin its eld
reserve until the new ministry ussuned e ce is not
corect, it declures. he fuct i tut Jupan hud been
aining old u to the tim Brituin suspenied sold puy-
ents, uni ir the eiyukai d not clu ered for an e brgo,
it is toubtrul whether a reat eal t the old uxy rtu-
tiomsw ula have been mude. This cluaer  ainst he sliey
or tot erin ministry un the purt  the chier psition
fri atoned the puslie into convertin their yen helai.s
into u llurs. here is, the l I declures, inereusing
eviice

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.93)
- 5 -
evidence that many of the speculators in foreign exchange
carried on their operutions in the expectauion that the
Seiyukai and its gold e bar o policy would triumph.
Respectfully yours,
Forhes
V. neron Forbes.
nclosures:
Trunsluti ns of
are es of the rine inister,
t.e Forei n  inister i t e
Financeinister.
Ribussy's ile . o.-doc.Japan
WTT

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.75)
poes of rir e Minister Inukai
it .e soth sessio..  uhe Imperi.l Diet,
on Jun  1, 1962.
I ve  Lo o
  overhet's
yorisi
i i Sist.
i.i sory
I
I itsa on
1t

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.91)
place for both Japanese and other foreigners to reside.
We shall proceed to realize t is task without delay. Japan
does not entertain any territorial umbition a ainst neighboring
countries. Whut Japan desires is tnat the treuties no: in
force shall be respected ani t at the ri nts und interests
already ucquired(in Hunchuria) shall be protected. ihe rinci le
of the pen d or in anchuria, which co stitutes the back-bone
of Jupan's policy, must be based on these (primary) principles.
By so loing, it is possible to maintain the peace of the Fur sast
and to enhunce the Oriental civilizution in orier t at friendly
relations beuween Japan und china may be everlasting and thus
contribute to the civili ution i the world. Unless this funda-
.entul policy is firaly established, me feur tlat muy trou-les may
occur in te future.
tuking this opportu ity, the Goveriment. alon with the
eneral public, exoresses its roround r-spects to ufficers
and nen of our army who ure now dischur ing their duties in
the extreme cold or uncluria for the ste o establishing the
above-mentioned policy.he Goverimen. has especially in-
strueted the overnors er ull refeeture. to take meusures
Por the rotection the ru tilies e t ese .l rs, s s
to reluse the ler   etbeeir ily r airs
in view te si touuion ut lome nd uorou,   lovern-
ent, ly no its e rti,  i. it. t  ent
or uli spcie ud shep mme te conversion ol per potes.
i tep ws ia t r ei. te outrlow r s ecie  the
colse or istie tstrie,t view t in a n
 1  iy, t e Gover ment first intellus to i pove the
sitnuti n, non at taadstili, or the uforce ent  te li
e ourco, md then to foriuinte its cconemic und Pin neiul
policies on this in roved founution.
Reurdin

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
3
Regarding the general domeetie policy, the present
Seiyukai Government has alr eady made public its platform
prior to its coming into power.
The Government wi 1l carry out
its policies in an orderly and steady manner, so as to conform
wi th the requireme nt of the times.
The depre ssion in agri cultural, comme rcial ana industrial
circles has now reached its zenith, w ith the result that a
large number of vo rkers have been thrown out
of employment.
The Government is greatly conc erne a over t he issue of s uch a
deplorable situation. The distressed condit ions in the north-
eastern distri ct
are epe cia lly worthy of sympa thy. The
cause of this si tuation is the markea depreciati on in the
price of rice, cocoons, and other pro ducts, as well as to the
stringency of t he money market.
The improvene nt of this
deploruble condition is de mea most urgeit. In formulating
plans for the relief of the situ ation, the Government is goi g
to adjust ana control every section of various oranizations
on the basis of the great principle of ational economy.
The Governmert will adopt a posi tive policy for the impro vement
of domestic indu strie s, and wi ll aajust the
customs tariff for
the deve lopme nt of forein trade.
For the
deve lopme nt of
dome st ic indnstrie s, the Go vernnent will take spe cial care to
maintain a close ∞o nte ct wit h monetary organs and not
to favor
either.
In view of the fact that the openine of the Imperial Diet
was immine nt, the Gov ernment fo und it
impossible to hare the
above desoribed plans embo die d in the
budget for the next
1932-33 fiscal year and was thus obligeà to adopt substantially
the new estimates compiled by the preceding Ministry. However,
the plan of the preceding Ministry to inorease taxation has been
abandoned in view of the condition of the peoples' living.
The Gov er nment

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.95)
4
The Governme it is most cono erne d over the fact that the
instability of living has driven various classes of people to
entertain dangerous ideas and thoughts.
Generally speaking
a sound and wholesome idea is nothing but an idea of mutual
love and prosperity. In fostering this idea, there will be no
alternative but to rely upon religion and eduoation. In the
field of education everything has its origin at home, and is
afterwards culti vated at school. Educationali sts sh oul, there-
fore, take to he art the princi ple and spirit of the Imperial
Rescript on Education, ana behave themselves accordingly.
The improvement of national edn cati on, espe cia lly of normal
education, is most imp rtunt for the autainment of the above-
mentioned obje ct. At t he s me time, efforts should be made
to pr event luxury ana its evils in a section of the people in
order that the masses may enjoy the ole ssings of administra ti on.
As regar ds the refo mati o of acminist rati on, t he
Go ver ment wi ll malke it  point to simplify all official sys tems,
and wi ll cause ufficiule to vu int in cis ci pline wider its
control so that all my vork elici ently in uni ty und concord.
This new polley wi ll no doust afforu  graut convenience to
the people who come in cont ot dth Governmams effices.
Regaroive forei pm proeleme, the Ministm for Fo eign
iffairs wi ll i ve you emplam ti ons. Hth re ara vo economic
questione, espe ciully as to reasons why the shiprent of  old
specie vas prohibite , the Hinist r of Fimnce i ll also speak.
I trust that you wili mppreeiat t Gover me ut 's attitude on
these pro blems.
(Unoffi cial translation)

=== Page 63 === (confidence 1.00)
The Address of Mr. Yoshizawa, Minister for Foreign
Affairs, at the 60th Session of the Imperial
Diet, January 21st, 1932.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
P
It gives me much pleasure to lay before you my views on the
outstanding diplomatic questions that confront the Government today.
The most important of these questions, one which not only
affects this country profoundly, but has engaged the attention of the
entire world, is the Manchurian Aflair.
China, being our neighbor, always stands, both economically
and politically, in intimate relationship with this country. In regard
to Manchuria, in particular, through historical and geographical reasons,
political considerations must become of preponderant interest. It is of
course beyond argument that the welfare of Manchuria is of the greatest
consequence to Japan. There are more than a million Japanese subjects
residing in Manchuria, and we possess in that region, in connection
with leased territories, railways, mines, ete., numerons rights and inter-
ests of vital importance, secured either by treaty or by contract.
In recent years the Chinese anthorities, ignoring the historical
fact that the present development of Manchtria is entirely due to
Japanese efforts, and taking advantage of our complaisance, have pursued
a poliey of oppression towards our country men. and have again and
again set at nanght their treaty rights and interests. The protests and
warnings of our government, despatched from time to time, were of little
avail. Thens the situation becaume politically more and more disquicting.
and the menace to our position mereasingly grave. The patience of

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
一2一
our people was tried to breaking point, when there suddenly exploded
the Railway bombing incident of September 1sth, precipitating a
collision between Japanese and Chinese soldiers, the later developments
of which occurrence are well known to all.
Manchuria holds the key to the peace of the Far East. That
was true before the Russo-Japanese War; it is even more true at the
present time. In the past the Japanese Government have always done
everything in their power to prevent the civil commotions of China
from spreading into Manchuria, because we possess there important
rights and interests rendering the maintenance of peace and order in
Manchuria a matter of absolute necessity to Japan. Thanks to these
untiring efforts, Manchuria was kept free from the constant turmoil of
China Proper, and has been turned into a land of peace and prosperity.
But for the Chinese misconduct of late pears and the Chinese disregard
of treaty and contractual obligations. 1 believe that the incident of
September 1sth wonld never have resulted in the present complications.
At any rate, as we have been chielly aecountable in the past for the
maintenance of peace in Manchuria, so will our responsibilities in this
respect be enhanced rather than lessened in the fnture.
I desire to add a word in this connection to make it clear that
Japan harbors no territoriad desgns in Manchuria pand that she will
uphold the principles of the open door and cpmal opportnity as well
as all existing treaties relating to that territory. W hat Japan desires
is only to secure peace and order for Maunchuria. aond to make that

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
一3一
region safe both for Chinese and foreigners and open to all for economic
development.
P
Now let me turn to the conditions which prevail in China
Proper. There, for these many years past, anti-Japanese agitation has
been carried on withont intermission except for brief intervals of com-
parative calm, which were only followed by agitations of increased
violence and intensity. It should be noted that these agitations represent
not only an economic movement, as in the case of the boycott of
Japanese goods, but bear a psychological aspect, as may be inferred
from the insertion of anti-Japanese matter in various textbooks for the
use of publie schools. However, there exists unmistakable evidence
that this movement is being actively promoted by unollicial organiza-
tions such as the various anti-Japanese societies, under the direct or
indirect direction and encouragement of the government, but quite
against the free will of the Chinese merchants and people in general.
Besides, we know for a fact that there are no small number of
individual Chinese who actually make a profession of agitating against
Japan. Since the advent of the present situation in Manchuria the
anti-dapanese movement has begun to display umpleasant symptoms,
and a number of regrettable ontrages have been committed. Compared
with the complete protection which persons of Chinese nationality are
afforded within our borders, the indeseribable persecution to which our
fellow-countrymen are being subjected in China presents, indeed, a
glaring contrast. The truth is that the foreign relations of China

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
一4一
have often been made a sacrifice to the machinations of domestic
palitics, during these years of continual civil wars and factional strifes.
The anti-Japanese movement undoubtedly derives its origin from the
internal polities of China, and 1 believe that the hostile attitude of
the Manchurian authorities in the period immediately preceding the
recent incident may also be traced to the same source. In short it is
an undeniable fact, that the civil wars and domestic polities of China
have exerted a most harmful influence upon all her foreign relations,
and Japan, her nearest neighbor, has had to suffer from that more
than any other Power.
Thus, unfortunately, our relations with China have for the
moment come under the influence of the complex internal and external
relations of that country, and it is to be apprehended that it will be
some time before we shall be able to effect the necessary readjustments
and to bring back the relations between the two countries to a normal
footing. The Manchurian incident was caused by our being compelled to
resort to immediate measures of self-protection and the anti-Japanese
Movement is due to the misguided views entertained by the Chinese.
Solutions of the issues involved must therefore await a complete change
of heart and reversal of poliey on the part of China. However, I am
convinced that the Chinese people as a whole and their enlightened
leaders are not hostile but, on the contrary, are in their hearts amicably
disposed toward this country, and we need not be over-pessimistic as
to the prospects of the restoration of normal relations between Japan

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
一5一
and China. Undoubtedly it is to the best interests of the two coun-
tries that they should love and respect each other and that between
them friendliness should be the rule and any strained relationship
merely a passing phenomenon.
The Manchurian Incident at the ontset caused a considerable
shock to the Council and the Assembly of the League of Nations
then in session at Geneva. On September 21st the Chinese delegate
having requested the Council, in accordance with Article 11 of the
League Covenant, to take cognizance of the matter, the question was
officially made the subject of investigation by the League Council.
Since then, the Council, as is well known, held three sessions
and passed two resolutions. On the other hand, the United States,
though not a member of the League, acted generally in concert with
that body, evidently because, as a Signatory to the Anti-War Pact
and to the Nine Power Treaty, that Power felt deep concern in the
Far Eastern situation. Our government exercised the utmost efforts to
make their position clear both to the League of Nations and to the
United States. Although there have been occasions when the present
incident seemed to lead our country into more or less delicate relations
with the League and with the American Government, we have sue-
ceeded through a careful and complete presentation of our case in
bringing them both to a better appreciation of the position of Japan
and of the vital interests she possesses in Manchuria.
Towards the Government of the Soviet Republies, which has

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
一6一
steadily maintained an attitude of impartiality and non-interference
throughout the present affair, 1 desire to express the satisfaction of
the Japanese Government.
With regard to the disarmament conference to be opened on
the 2nd of February, 1 wish to say that this government have formed
definite plans, and have given instructions accordingly to the Japanese
Representatives. This most momentous conference being the first to
be held whose deliberations will cover the entire field of armament,
involving land, sea and air forces, the world is looking eagerly forward
to its outcome. As far as concerns this government, we will, of course,
strive to carry our points, but at all events we earnestly hope that
the coming Conference will bring forth tangible results which shall be
alike rational and equitable, and so contribute to the establishment of
permanent peace throughout the world.
The spirit of progress manifested when our country was first
thrown open governs as ever our national poliey. To " seek knowledge
in the wide world," as it is expressed in the oaths taken by the Great
Emperor Meiji, is the living creed of our people. The ideal of our
diplomacy is, while maintaining our just rights, to work in harmony
with all countries and to give our nation its share in the benefits of
universal culture and enlightenment. It is with that ideal that I hope
to work and help to promote the interests of the nation and the
happiness and welfare of our people.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Friday, January 22, 1982.
"I have the honor of explaining to
total debts of the Government. It is
Gold Shipments Begun
you the general budget for the fiscal
explained that the amount of money to
"The first shipment was made by
year 1932-33.
be devoted to sinking funds for the
foreign bank on January 21, 1930, an
"The present Cabinet took office on
next fiscal year therefore, will be ¥26.-
up to June a total of about ,00.-
December 13, and because of the brief
800,000 as compared with 47,000,000 for
000 in gold left the country, contery
time left before the opening of the
the current year."
to the predictions of the Government.
Diet. it was impossible to draw up a
Both Houses Addressed
Finance Minister Junnosuke Inouye
new budget and the Cabinet wus
Mr. Takahashi also addressed the
then at the helm, did not approve
forced to take over the budget of the
House of Peers during the morning ses-
the Yokohama Specie Bank shipping
preceding Cabinet with some modifica-
sion, his remarks in the Upper House
gold and this resulted in the depletion
tion.
being repeated in the Lower House as
of the stocks held in foreign countrie
The total budget involves a sum of
well. The section of his address given
by the bank.
¥1,397,000,000 each in revenue and ex-
in both the Upper and Lower Houses
"Foreign banks gradually gained oon-
penditure. In revenue, the ordinary
yesterday, in unofficial translation, was
trol of the Japanese exchange market
uccounts total 1,238,400,000 and the
as follows:
and reduced the exchange rate betwem
extraordinary accounts 158,600,000. On
"The present Cabinet carried out a
January and April by a small amount.
the side of expenditures. the ordinary
replacement of the gold embargo im-
This tendency did not last and the
accounts amount to ¥1,141,300,000 and
000. Compared with the budget for
accounts show a decrease of 158,500,-
000 in revenue and the extraordinary
accounts and increase of 66,300,000,
side of a decrease.
the extraordinary accounts 255,700,-
the present fiscal year. the ordinary
with a balancc of 92,100,000 on the
Under the heading of expenditures,
Expenditures Also Decrease
cause of the grave situation then pre-
such a position that the maintenance
mediately upon assuming its duties be-
vailing. We not only believed that this
was a step forward economically but it
of the gold standard was impossible,
was realized that the country was in
regardless of whether the public in gen-
eral approved of the step or not. I will
explain in more detail.
"A former Cabinet, for the purpose
Government instructed the Yokohama
Specie Bank to sell exchange and with
the bank started selling yen after July
31, 1930. The bank then sold at a rate
of ¥49% to an unlimited extent, finally
resulting in interference with the pro-
000. the movement away from Japan
the approval of the Finance Minister
per function of the bank and the crem-
end of the year amounted to 308,000.-
tion of a difficult problem. Gold ship-
ments continued and the total at the
ordinary accounts show a decline of
of strengthening Japan's specie posi-
continuing into 1931.
¥41,000,000 and in extraordinary ac-
tion abroad as a preliminary to lifting
"The Cabinet then in power asked
counts a drop of ¥50,700,000, indicating
the embargo on gold, purchased Jap-
for the moral support of leading busi-
a total drop of ¥91,800,000 compared
anese bonds in foreign currencies after
ness men in maintaining the gold
with the current budget. Items which
June. 1929, the amounts purchased be-
standard and the Bank of Japan in-
led to the decrease in revenue were
ing 64,300,000 on the part of the gen-
creased its discount rates twice, once
¥92,600,000 in taxes. 8,600,000 in postal
eral accounts bureau of the Govern-
in October and again in November, in
revenues and 59,400,000 in income
ment and Y152,500.000 by the deposits
an evident attempt to check the specu-
from Government enterprises and
bureau of the Ministry of Finance, a
lative dollar purchases. The Govern-
property. the total decrease amounting
total cf Y216.800,000 up to December of
ment also negotiated with the specula-
to make good the deficit in ordinary
this lack with an issue of bonds. In
to a large sum.
income and therefore decided to meet
"The Government found it difficult
worth of this class of bonds, bringing
Japan purehased more than Y20,000.000
that ycar. In addition. the Bank of
the total transactions to Y237,000,000. The
ernment ordered the Yokohama Specie
time selling contracts involved the
but its efforts failed. Finally, the Gov-
Bank to cease selling yen. but at that
tors in order to check this movement.
addition to transferring some of the
fixed expenditure enterprises, including
telephone and exchange extension,
ernment could freely dispose of Japan's
specie holdings abroad to the amount
Cabinet then declared that the Gov-
enormous sum of ¥754,000,000 with a
total of Y200.000,000 outstanding and still
unsettled.
post-earthquake readjustment and road
of Y304,000.000.
Situation Gets Out of Hand
improvement, to bond accounts, the
Föreign Credit Announced
This created a situation which was
Government has decided to issue bonds
"The Government also annodneed
beyond control and impossible to re-
up to ¥96,400,000 to meet the deficit in
that it had arranged a credit anount-
lieve. but the Wakatsuki Cabinet an-
the budget.
ing 1o Y100.000,000 with Great Britain
nounced that it could effect a com-
"The preceding Cabinet planned to
and the United States. It is evident
promise settlement if allowed to re-
carry out a tax increase which would
that these statements were made for
main in power. But in view of the
add ¥56,0000,000 to revenue. However.
the purpose of assuring the people that
fact that only a small number of com-
the present Cabinet has realized the
exhausted state of public finances and
has come to the decision that the adop-
tion of policies to bring about an eco-
there was no uneertainty to be expect-
d in conn ction with an outflow of gold
in the veni the embargo was lifted.
On the other hand. the Government
promises were effected between July.
1930 and December. 1931, it is quite
clear that no such measures would sue-
nom e revival is a matter of paramount
used sem: of specie holdings abroad
ceed.
importance. The Cabin't doubts if an
for G vermnent payments and also for
"It is evident that the Government
increase in taxes would result in any
the pur pose of inducing the Yokohama
autherities were beyond their legitimate
great increase in revenue. and on the
Speete Bank to sell yen. at a loss to
functions in ordering the Bank of Japan
other hand. the Gov rnment has no
the Governne n!. The selling of the
and the Yokohama Specie Bank to sell
time to investigade the proposed in-
en went on taking advantage of ac-
yen exchange. This was done in secret
crease as outlmed by the last Cabmet.
tive speculative purchases in connee-
and was entirely arbitrary. A note
Increased Taxes Dropped
tion with the pr: speetive lifting of the
from the then Minister of Finance to
"In spite of the fact that the Gov-
gold embargo. When the yen rate rose
the Bank of Japan carried nothing in
ernment has taken over the budget
and speculators had realized their
the way of Cabinet approval and there-
drafted by the Wakatsuki Cabinet. it
profits. the seling of yen and the pur-
fore the present Cabinet can assume
has laid aside the tax inerease plan
chas: of Japanese bonds in foreign
no responsibility for this action and
only. The total bond issues necessary
currtncies took place. In all this the
is entirely independent of the matter.
for the next year will amount to Y191.
Government suffered a loss. as was
In spite of this. the present Cabinet
000.000 in all the general and special
p. inted eut by the board of audit.
premitted the shipment of ¥50,000,000
accounts. These include Y17.500.000 for
"Th: yen-dollar rate went from $48*»
in gold from Japan during December
telephones. Y7.600.000 for the post-earth-
on November 21. 1929. to $49 on De-
and is now giving its deepest atten-
quake and fire accounts. Y1.000.000 for
cember 9 but the market suddenly
tion to the problem in order to effect
road improvement. Y900,000 for tele-
changed from the selling of Japanese
a readjustment.
graphs and Y96,400,000 for making up
bonds in foreign currencies to pur-
"The replacement of the gold em-
the budget deficit. In the special itenms,
chasing. marking the deerease of
bargo. I believe. will relieve the Jap-
bonds will be needed of Y49.000.000 for
Japan's specie strength abroad. The
anese nation from the present economic
the railways. Y14.900.000 for the Korean
Yok: hama Specie Bank bought specie
difficulties. will promote industry and
Government-General. Y3.000,000 for the
abroad from the Bank of Japan and
stabilize living conditions. It is im-
Formosan Government-General. and
sold dollars and pounds sterling. On
portant at the present time that the
Y600.000 for the Kwantung government,
January 11. 1930. when Janan lifted
people co-operate with the Government
a total of ¥67,500,000.
"As has been explained. the budget
the gold embargo. the specie reserve
abroad had already declined to a great
in order to overcome the difficult situa-
tion with the greatest determination."
extent. leaving a balance of about
for the next fiscal year will be featured
Y150,000,000 held by the Government
by a big drop in revenues which must
and the Bank of Japan available for
be met by issuing bonds. As another
xchange transactions. half of the Y300.-
step in this direction. the Government
000,000 announced previously as avail-
has decided to reduce the ratio of
ble. This meant that the Government
funds to be set aside for sinking funds
lad to ship specic abroad to meet the
by one third. from 1.6 per cent of the
lemand.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PLAIN
01b
FROM
Peiping via NR
Dated March 24, 1932
1 
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1A41932
COPIES SENT TO
Seoretary of State
O.NID ANDM.LD
Washington.
mu
Department of State
367, March 24, 10 a.m.
Does the Department desire by naval radio the
894.032/100
English text of Yoshizawa's statement regarding foreign
policy made in the Diet on March twenty-second? It
consists of about 95o words.
For the Minister
PERKINS
JS CIB
Man2 8 1932
UD

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
FE
M
AWABLAMES
CHINESE POR CLASH
NEN YORK TIMES - March 22.
tion to China proper and the
Tolle Dlet That Agreements
Marines' Action Is Defended.
Wère Breken at. Shanghai
making it appear that it was the
"Reports are sometimes ciroulated
people toward the militarist rud
which they have been subjests
and Marines Attacked.
Japanese marines who commenced
fighting in spite of the Chinese ao-
ceptance of our terms of settlement.
local leaders for the maintenam
UPHOLDS THE 'OPEN DOOR'
But the facts of the case are pre-
cisely as I have just stated.
districts graduadly assumed à ferm
"Moreover, we exerted every effort
of movement for autonomy.
"A declaration of independence was
Fereign Minister Says Autonomy in
to prevent any aggrevation of the
made a short time ago by the former
situation, and upon two occasions we
Provincial Governors and other Man-
WASHINGTON, March 21.—Confi-
Manchuria Came Through
Native Leadere Themselves.
Spesial to Ta New Tox Tss.
entered into agreements with the
Chinese authorities for a truce.
But each time the agreement was
rendered nugatory by the action of
the Chinese Army. Our demand
presented, on Feb. 19. that the Chi-
nese, Army should withdraw to a cer-
ment announcing the establishment
of the new independent State of
of March 12 from the Minister for
Fcreign Affairs of the New Goverà-
Manchuria.
churian leaders. Our government re-
ceived a communication under date
dence that "in time the sympathy of
the Western powers will turn gradu-
tain distance, was rejected by the
troops, which had been dispatched as
Chinese. Thereupon, on the 20th, our
"As regards this communication, we
Open Door Is Epsphasised.
ally in favor of Japan" in considering
reinforcement acting in concert with
have gone no further than unoffi-
the Far Eastern erisis was expressed
by Kenkichi Yoshizawa, the Japanese
the navy, undertook to compel the
side the prescribed area and com-
withdrawal of the Chinese forces out-
am certain, however, that it will be
cially to acknowledg itsreceipt. I
Foreign Minister, in an adgress to-
pleted the task on March 3.
in accordance with the best interests
night (tomorro Tokyo tim) before
occurred the Chinese Government.
"As soon as the Shanghai incident
of the new State, if its government
will, as the announcement says will
the special seskion of the Diet in
proposed to the Council of the League
be the case, really respect the exist-
Japan, made publie hara by the Jap-
of Nations to make application of
ing treaties and the rights and inter-
anese Ambassador.
Article 15 of the League covenant
to the Sino-Japanese conflict, and
ests of foreigners and faithfully ad-
here to the principle of the Open
Mr. Yoshizawa's address was as
later, upon the request of China, the
Doot.
follows:
case was transferred to the Assembly
As regards variou questions pend-
"At the last session of the Diet I
of the League.
ing between Japan and the Soviet
had occasion to discuss the more im-
Affair Held to be Local.
in the Northern vaters, negotiations
Union in connectlon witn fisheries
portant of foreign questions con-
"The Japanese Government took the
assiduously condacted a Moscow
the pleasure of reporting and of
fronting the country. Today I have
vlew that the Shanghai incident was
merely a local affair which was not
sincc the end of ast year have so
far failed to bear fruit From a
broad standpoint of friendly rela-
stating my views on various phases
of a nature likely to lead to a rup-
tions between the two countrles it
'that have since developed.
ture, while, as regards the Man-
is most desirable that we should ar-
"As regards the anti-Japanese move-
churian incident, not only had there
ment. In fact, the difference, in the
rive at a fair and suitable settle-
thi
ment in China proper, the Japanese
been no renewal of hostilities but the
view of the two governments, concern-
joGovernment seized every opportunity
matter was already pending in the
ing the basis of settlement, is grad-
Jato urge upon the Chinese authorities
ou
 thoroughgoing suppression of the
hands of the Council under Article
2 of the covenant, and moreover, a
this government to continue their
efforts toward carrying our points
ually narrowing. It is the intention of
of
same. However, China falled to re-
commission of injuiry had indeed
and so to safeguard the legitimate
spond and the movement continued
left for the purpose of conducting
rights and interests secured to us by
or
with increasing intensity and persis-
tence.
actual conditions prevailing in China;
investigations on the spot into the
there was, therefore, no legitimate
treaty.
Political Interests in China.
ground for applying Article 15 to
"I have now given an outline of
who had long endured ceaseless anti-
Japanese movements and whose pa-
tlence had been well-nigh exhausted
either of these cases.
tion based on that view that our
"It was with unequivocal reserva-
the latest developments in the for-
eign affairs of Japan. While inter-
under the trying conditions of more
government participated in the de-
ests of this country in Manchuria are
recent months. The situation thus
liberation of the Council and the As-
certainly of paramount importance
came to assume a grave aspect.
Shanghai, acting under instructions
"The Japanese Consul General at
sembly. However, the Assembly
passed a resolution on March 11
which was in more than one respect
from the political viewpoint, those
in China proper are, in main, eco-
of his government, presented to the
unacceptable to our government. On
nomic rather than political. Conse-
Mayor of Shanghai strong protests
account of this unacceptability, our
quently, if the Nanking Government
the first incident, and, after some
regarding these two incidents and,
at the same time. made various de-
mands for the settlement of affairs.
demur, with our demands relating to
The Mayor complied, without much
delay and much conversation, in the
end accepted our terms regarding
the covenant and abstained from
representatives, under instructions of
the government, expounded the Japa-
nese position, declared a protest em-
to the application of Article 15 of
hodying our contention with regard
voting.
"Autonomy" Move in Manchuria.
room for doubt as to the possibility
prosperity and. progress, there is no
their anti-Japanese policy and direct
their energies towards achieving in-
ternal unity and peace and economic
and the Nationalist party abandon
the second.
Army Had Concentrated Near City.
special position it qcqupies in rela-
"In Manchurla, by reason of the
of restoring complete friendship and
concord between the two countries.
"I may add, on this occaslon, a
"On receipt of the Mayor's reply at
word about the atmosphere of Eu-
rope and America which has not al-
8 o'clock on the 28th, the Japanese
ways been sympathetic to Japan
authorities, anticipating that the
since the outbreak of the Manchuri-
situation would improve, adopted an
an incident and especially since the
attitude of watchfully awaiting the
Shanghai affair. That atmosphere
was created simply through the mis-
fullfilment of the promise on the part
representations of facts emanating
of the Chinese. In the meantime the
from Chinese sonrces or through
Nineteenth Route Army, then concen-
misunderstandings of varieus kinds.
trated in the vicinity of Shanghai,
I am confident that, in time, the
having assumed a disquieting atti-
sentiment of Western powers will
tude and making a display of war-
turn gradually in favor of Japan."
like preparations, the Shanghai Mu-
nicipal Council decided to take due
precautions against the possibility of
disturbances being created within the
Bettlement by undiscipiined Chinese
soldiers or by mobs and radical ele-
ments.
"Accordingly, a council meeting on
the 28th declared a state of siege to
pommence that day at 4 in the after-
As a result, the garrisons of
powers were assigned to duty at
eir respective sectors in accordance
ense. It was while the Japanese
rimes were proceeding to take up
r post in the Chapei district, their
son our forces and compelled them
take measures of defense.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
FE
M
AWABLAMES
EBE FOR CLASH
NEW YORK TIMES • Mareh 22.
tion to China proper andt
Marines' Action Is Defended.
"Reports are sometimes circulated
making it appear that it was the
Japanese marines who commenced
fighting in spite of the Chinese ao-
downfall of the erstwhile Manch
ceptance of our terms of settlement.
But the facts of the case are pre-
cisely as I have just stated.
districts graduadly assumed  ferm
"Moreover, we exerted every effort
of movement for autonomy.
to prevent any aggrevation of the
made a short time ago by the former
"A declaration of independence was
situation, and upon two occasions we
Provincial Governors and other Man-
entered into agreements with the
churian leaders. Our government re-
Chinese authorities for a truce.
ceived a communication under date
But each time the agreement was
of March 12 from the Minister fer
rendered nugatory by the action of
Fcreign Affairs of the New Govern-
the Chinese Army. Our demand
ment announcing the establishment
presented, on Feb. 19. that the Chi-
of the new independent State of
nese, Army should withdraw to a cer-
Manchuria.
tain distance, was rejected by the
Open Door Is Eppphasised.
Chinese. Thereupon, on the 20th, our
troops, which had been dispatched as
"As regards this communication, we
reinforcement acting in concert with
have gone no further than unoffi-
the navy, undertook to compel the
withdrawal of the Chinese forces out-
cially to acknowledge itsreceipt. I
side the prescribed area and com-
am certain, however, that it will be
pleted the task on March 3.
in accordance with the best interests
"As soon as the Shanghai incident
of the new State, if its government
occurred the Chinese Government,
will, as the announcement says will
proposed to the Council of the League
be the case, really respect the exist-
of Nations to make application of
ing treaties and the rights and inter-
Article 15 of the League covenant
ests of foreigners and faithfully ad-
to the Sino-Japanese conflict, and
here to the principle of the Open
later, upon the request of China, the
case was transferred to the Assembly
Doot.
As regards various questions pend-
of the League.
ing between Japan and the Soviet
Affair Held to be Local.
Union in connectlon witn fisheries
in the Northern vaters, negotiations
"The Japanese Government took the
assiduously condacted a Moscow
view that the Shanghai incident was
since the end of ast yesr have so
"In Shanghai, where the agitation
Chinese Paper Is Accused.
of a nature likely to lead to a rup-
ture, while, as regards the Man-
merely a local affair which was not
is most desirable that we should ar-
broad standpoint of Tfiendly rela-
tions between the two countrles it
far failed to bear fruit From a
was conducted with especial vigor,
churian incident, not only had there
rive at a fair and suitable settle-
the Minkuo Jihpao, a vernacular
journal of that city, published on
been no renewal of hostilities but the
matter was already pending in the
view of the two governments, concern-
ing the basis of settlement, is grad-
ment. In fact, the difference, in the
Jan. 9 an article highly abusive of
hands of the Council under Article
ually narrowing. It is the intention of
our Imperial House, and on the 18th
2 of the covenant, and moreover, a
this government to continue their
and his companions were murdered
of the same month a Japanese priest
commission of injuiry had indeed
left for the purpose of conducting
rights and interests secured to us by
and so to safeguard the legitimate
efforts toward carrying our points
or wounded by a Chinese mob.
investigations on the spot into the
treaty.
"The two incidents were sufficient
actual conditions prevailing in China;
there was, therefore, no legitimate
Political Interests in China.
to inflame the Japanese residents,
who had long endured ceaseless anti-
ground for applying Article 15 to
either of these cases.
"I have now given an outline of
Japanese movements and whose pa-
"It was with unequivocal reserva-
the latest developments in the for-
tlence had been well-nigh exhausted
tion based on that view that our
eign affairs of Japan. While inter-
under the trying conditions of more
government participated in the de-
ests of this country in Manchuria are
recent months. The situation thus
came to assume a grave aspect.
liberation of the Council and the As-
sembly. However, the Assembly
certainly of paramount importance
"The Japanese Consul General at
passed a resolution on March 11
from the political viewpoint, those
Shanghai, acting under instructions
which was in more than one respect
in China proper are, in main, eco-
of his government, presented to the
unacceptable to our government. On
nomic rather than political. Conse-
Mayor of Shanghai strong protests
account of this unacceptability, our
regarding these two incidents and,
representatives, under instructions of
quently, if the Nanking Government
at the same time, made various de-
the government, expounded the Japa-
and the Nationalist party abandon
mands for the settlement of affairs.
nese position, declared a protest em-
their anti-Japanese policy and direct
demur, with our demands relating to
The Mayor complied, without much
to the application of Article 15 of
hodying our contention with regard
their energies towards achieving in-
the first incident, and, after some
the covenant and abstained from
ternal unity and peace and economic
delay and much conversation, in the
voting.
prosperity and. progress, there is no
end accepted our terms regarding
"Autonomy" Move In Manchuria.
room for doubt as to the possibility
the second.
"In Manchuria, by reason of the
of restoring complete friendship and
Army Had Concentrated Near City.
"On recelpt of the Mayor's reply at
special position it qcqupies in rela-
word about the atmosphere of Eu-
concord between the two countries.
"I may add, on this occasion, 
8 o'clock on the 28th, the Japanese
rope and America which has not al-
authorities, anticipating that the
ways been sympathetic to Japan
situation would improve, adopted an
an incident and especially since the
since the outbreak of the Manchuri-
attitude of watchfully awaiting the
Shanghai affair. That atmosphere
fullfilment of the promise on the part
was created simply through the mis-
of the Chinese. In the meantime the
representations of facts emanating
Nineteenth Route Army, then concen-
from Chinese somrces or through
trated in the vicinity of Shanghai,
misunderstandinge of varieus kinds.
having assumed a disquieting atti-
I am confident that, in ime, the
tude and making a display of war-
sentiment of Western powers will
like preparations, the Shanghai Mu-
turn gradually in favor af Japan."
nicipal Council decided to take due
precautions against the possibility of
disturbances being created within the
Bettlement by undisciplined Chinese
soldiers or by mobs and radical ele-
ments.
"Accordingly, a council meeting on
the 28th declared a state of siege to
sommence that day at 4 in the after-
meon. As a result. the garrisons of
ke powers were assigned to duty at
eir respective sectors in accordance
tr post in the Chapei district, their
pom our forces and compelled them
take measures of defense.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.88)
TELEGRAM SENT
e
March 24, 1958.
AMERIGAN LEGATION
PBIPING (CHINA).
/100
92-24th
94.032/100
Your 367. Maroh 24, 10 a.m.
Text of statement was published in papers here.
You need met sond it.
Stinono
sut
OF
Ma 24. I0 P..
pMm
FE: RSM: EJL
Enciphered by
M..
19.
Send by operator.
L188
Indezx Bu.—No. 50.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
RECU
OF
EMBASSY OF THE
12
11
TED STATES OF AMERICA
EP
No. 538
8
Subjeot: Proceedohof the Diet.
FILED
APR 980
Divisón of
F/HS
FAR EAS
APR 1 1932
Departmegr ot S
894.032/1
O
The Honorable
181932
The Secretury of itate,
FILED
ushinton.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that the Sixty First
Session of the Imperiul Diet wus convened on arch 18,
and closed on march 24. ihe Session was extraordinary
and was called for tle purpose of pussing on emergency
finuncial .leusures necessituted by the expenses of the
military op rations in china.
The circumstances Which led to the calling of this
Session are interesting and sinificant. The Diet session
in January, See desputch No.471, January 29, 1902, was
dissolved

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
dissolved by an Imperial Ediot before it had taken
action on the Budget bills. To meet the extraordinary
expenses occasioned by the Shanghai and Manchurian
military actions, the Cabinet had obtained the sanction
of the Emperor, after approval by the Privy Council, of
two bond issues totaling Yen 54,910,000. These were
approved as emergency measures under Article 7o of the
Constitution which provides that in case of emergenoy the
Government can undertake finuncial measures by obtaining
Imperial consent. The third request for funds to be raised
in this manner amounting to Yen 22,000,000 encountered
opposition from the Privy council.
This body stated that
there was no need for treating the bond issue as an
energency measure, pointing out that the meusure could
and should be placed before the Diet for a proval in
accordance with the provisions of the constitution.
The
elections, following dissolution of the Diet, had been
held and the Diet could be convened at uny time. The
Privy Council did, however, eventually approve Yen
15,000,000 of the amount requested, which would cover
ex enditures incurred pr vious to the end of the fiscal
year ( March lst), but refused to a prove the remuinder.
This attitude on the part of the Privy Council left
the Goverinent no rocourse but to convene the Diet in order
to obtain u preval fur its finuncial musures.
obvicucly
the govermment would prefer t obtain a proval for its
measures without huving the an oyunce and possiule risk
of Fucing the Diet.
For ucting in defence of purlianentary
pructice the Privy Council hus received the commendation
of

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
of the press.
The Diet met on waroh l8th for organization. The
election of the Speaker and Assistant Speaker of the Lower
House caused the initial confliot. The Opposition insisted
that the two Seiyukai men elected, Messrs Akita and Uehara,
resign from me bership in their party in accordance with a
resolution passed by the Lower House in 1925. Their protests
received no attention beyond catcalls and hisses from the
Governiient Party me.bers.
The formal opening of the Diet was eld on the 2oth
in the presence of the Emperor, in the House of Peers. The
first business of the two Houses, after the Imperial iessage
had been answered, was to pass a resolution thanking the
arned forces of the Empire for their ef orts in China.
Speeches were delivered by the Foreign Minister Mr. Yoshizawa,
the Minister of War, Lieutenant General Araki, the Minister
of the Navy, Admiral Osumi, and the .inister of Finance,
Mr. Takuhashi. Translations of the two speeches first
1,2.
mentioned are a pended hereto. I have taken up the measures
of the Finance Minister in a separate despatch ( See despatch
No. 533 of March 26 .
The Gover. ment, ith its lurge majority in the iet,
anticiputed and encou tered little opposition to its mousures
durin: the short session. The Opposition Party Wus not
inclined to take issue ith the Goverulent on the matter of
war expenses, and the militury budgets ere uccepted with
no debate. other Gover ment bills et some opposition, but
ere all passed.
The bills pussed in tis Session are
outlined in ietuil in the d spatch mentio.ed above.
AS

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
As usual there was considerable excitement and disorder
in the Lower House. As has been expeoted, the Opposition
centered its attaok on the failure of the Gover ment to
resign following the Sakurada Mon attempt on the Emperor.
The Home Ministry und the Ministry of War Were criticized
for lack of care in not preventing the incident. The
Home Ministry received blame for the series of outrages
that include the assassination of ir. Inouye and Baron Dan.
Interpellations in regard to the Cabinet's policy in Manchuria
and china, and regarding alleged pressure on Japan from
the League of Nations were made of the Foreign Minister.
I an unable, so soon after the end of the Session, to
estimate the value of these interpellations.
Respectfully yours,
Edwin L. Neville
chargé d'af aires ad interim
Enclosures:
Copy of Foreign Minister's
speech before the Diet
Copy of War Minister's
speech before the iet
habassy's File Ro.800. Jupan
HTT/SR

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
The Address of Mr. Yoshizawa, Minister-for
Foreign Affairs, at the 6lst Sssion
538
of the Imperial Diet.
March 22nd, 1932.
At the last session of the Diet I had occasion to
discuss the more important of the foreign questions
confronting this country. To-day I have the pleasure
of reporting, and of stating my views, on the various
phases that have since developed.
As regards the Anti-Japanese movement in China Proper,
the Japanese Government seized every opportunity to urge
upon the Chinese authorities the thorough-going suppression
of the same. However. China failed to respond, and the
movement continued with increasing intensity and persistence.
In Shanghai. where the agitation was conducted with especial
vigor, the Minkuo Jihpao, a vernacular journal of that city.
published on J mary 9th an article highly abusive of our
a
Imperial House, and on the 18th of the same month Jepanese
his
pri est and thei companione were murdered or wounded by
a Chinese mob. The two incidents were sufficient to inflame
the Japanese residents. who had long endured the ceaseless
Anti-Ja panese movements and whose patience had been well-nigh
exhausted under th trving conditions of more recent months.
The situation thur came to assume a grave aspect.
The

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
The Japanese Consul-General at Shanghai, acting under
the instructions of the Government, presented to the Mayor
of Shanghai strong protests regarding these two incidents,
and at the same time made various demands for the settlement
of the affairs. The Mayor complied without much demur with
our demands relating to the first incident, and after some
delay and much conversation, in the end acsepted our terms
regarding the second. On receipt of the Myor's reply, at
3 c'clock on the 28th, the Japanese authorities, anticipating
that the situstion would improve. adopted an attitude of
watchfully awaiting the fulfilment of their promise on the
part of the Chinese. In the meantime. the 19th Route Army.
then concentrated in the vicinity of Shanghai, having assumed
a disquieting attitude and making a display of warlike
preparations, the Shanghai Municipal Council had decided
to take due precautions against the possitility of
disturbances being created within the Settlement by
undisciplined Chinese soldiers, or by mobs and radical
elements. Accordingly, the Council, meeting on the 28th,
declared a state of siege, to commence tla" day at 4
o'clock in the afternoon. As a result, the garcisons
of the Poverr were assigred to duty at their respective
seetors in accordnce with a pre-arvanged plan of common
defense. It va while the Japanese marines were proceeding
to tuke up their poit in the Chapei district. their allotted
sector, that the Chinene fired upon our forces, and compelled
them

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
them to take measures of defense. Reports are sometimes
circulated making it appear that it was the Japanese marines
who commenced the fighting, in spite of the Chinese acceptance
of our terms of settlement. But the facts of the case are
precisely as I have just stated.
Moreover, we exerted every effort to prevent any
aggravation of the situation, and upon two occasions we
entered into agreements with the Chinese authorities for a
truce. But each time the agreement vas rendered nugatory
by the action of the Chinese army. Our demand, presented
on the 19th of Febrmary, that the Chinese army should withdraw
to a certain distance, was rejected oy the Chinese. Thereupon,
on the 2oth, our troops which had been dispatched as a rein-
forcement, acting in concert with the navy, undertook to
compel the withdrawal of the Chineee forces outside the
prescribed area, and completed the task on March 3rd.
As soon as the Shanghai Incident occurred. the Chinese
Government proposed to the Council of the League of Nations
to make application of Article 15 of the League Covenant
to the Sino-Japanuge conflict, and later. upon the requent
of China, the case wae transferred to thy Assembly of the
League. The Tapanese Government took ti view that the
Shanghai Incicent was a morely local affair which was not
of a nature likely to lead to a rupture, while as regards the
Manchurian Incidont, nor only had there been no renewal
of

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
of hostilities, but the matter was elready pending in the
hands of the Council under Article 1l of the Covenant and,
moreover, the commission of inquiry had indeed left for the
purpose of conducting investigations on the spot into the
actual conditions prevailing in China; there was therefore
no legitimate ground for applying Article 15 to either of
these cases. It was with an unequivocal reservation based
on that view that our government participated in the delibera-
tions of the Council and the Assembly. However, the Assembly
passed a resolution on March 1lth, which was in more than
one respect unacceptable to our government. On account of
this unacceptability, our representatives under the instruc-
tions of the Government, expounded the Japenese position,
made a reservation
doolared a protost embodying our contention with regard to
the application of Article 15 of the Covenant, and abstained
from voting.
In Manchuria, by reason of the special position it
occupies in relation to China Proper, and the inveterate
antagonism of the Ma churian people towaras the militarist
rule to which they had been subjected, it appe rs that
subsequently to the downfall of the erstwhile Manchurian
authorities 1 st rutumn, the efforts of the local leaders
for the maintenance of peace and order in their respective
districts radually assumed the form of a movement for
autonomy. A decl ration of independence wa: maue
a
short
time

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.91)
一5一
time ago by forrer provincial governors end other Manchurian
leaders. Our gevernment received a comaunication under date
of Merch 12th fron the Minister for Foreign Affeirs of the
nev government, announcing the establishment of a new
independent State of Manchuria. As regards this communication,
we have gone no further than unofficially to ackrowledge its
receipt. I am certain, however, that it will be in accordance
with the best interests of the new state if its government
will, as the announcenent says will be the case, reelly
respect existine treeties and the rights end interests of
foreighers, und faithfully adhere to the principle of the
Qpe! Door.
As regards the vari us quesuions pending between Japan
and the Seviet mion in conneetion vith the fisheries in
northern water, the neyotiations assiduously conducted at
Moseow since the me o lust year have so fer fuiled to bear
Pruit. From the broad stamt-point  Prisndly velations
bevweer the twe ca m ries it is most sesirable that we should
arrive at  fuir ma suitable settlement. In fact, the
differenee i th vie s  the twe overnments e meernins
the basis e settlese  is aduelly arrevins. It is the
inte.tio.
lis sover en o e ti ne their efforts towards
cerryin r ppints a so te safe  pa the le. i i.ate ri hts
ard irte e ts see re us tr reuty.
I  ve pive a tline of the i test levelopments
111

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
-6 -
in the foreign effairs of Jap:n. While the interests of
this country in Manchuria are certainly of paramount impor-
tance from : political view-point, those in China Proper are
in the main economic rather than political. Consequently, if
the Nanking Government and the Nationalist Party abandon
their Anti-Japanese policy and direct their energies towards
achieving internal unity and peace, and economic prosperity
and progress, there is no room for doubt as to the possibility
of restoring complete friendship and concord between the two
countries. I may add on this occasion a word about the
atmosphere of Eurcpe and America, which has not always been
sympathetie. to Japon since the outbreak of the Manchurian
Incident, and especially since the Shanghai Affeir. That
atmosphere was created simply through misrepresentations of
facts emanatin from Chinese sources or through misunder-
standings of various kinds. I am confident that in time
the sentimert of the Western Powers will tur. radually in
favor of Japan.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
538
The Jamn Advertiser.
F1
Tokye, Wednesday, Mareh as, 19se
20.
CAMPAIGN OF ARMY
dangerous forces and maintamea
guard against bandits. The present
peaceful situation in the area is en-
tirely due to the efforts of the Jape-
REVIEWED BY ARAKI
nese. The future, however, is far
from bright, and it is necessary that
we maintain constant vigilance.
"From the standpoint of the national
defense of Japan, peace in Manchuria
War Minister, in Diet, Asks Co-
is essential. It is therefore necessary
for us to maintain our present strength
operation of Nation in Sup-
there and also to send re-enforce-
ments if needed. This point is now
porting Military
being studied by our officials.
Precautions Taken
"Next, in regard to our expedition
VITAL TO DEFENSE, HE SAYS
to Shanghai, here, the situation was
entirely different from that in Man-
churia. Accordingly. we took the
General States That Japanese
greatest precautions and the affair was
handled from the beginning with th:
Troops Are Still Needed to
greatest care.
Keep Peace in Manchuria
"A brigade was sent from Kyushu
to support the naval forces already on
the spot, in accordance with a deci-
The Minister of War. Lieutenant-
sion of the Supreme Military Council.
General Sadao Araki, delivered the fol-
This was followed by the dispatch of
lowing address before the session of
a division.
the Lower Hous of th: Diet yester-
"The army has done its best to avoid
day afternoon:
bloodshed and has made repeated
"The anti-Japanese movement in
overtures toward reaching a perma-
China grew more bitter as a result of
nent settlement of the conflict. Far
definite boycott operations. constitut-
from responding to these overtures in
ing a menace to peace in the Far East.
a peaceful manner. the Chinese re-
The interests of Japan in Manchuria
plied with artillery fire and we were
compelled to retaliate.
and Mongolia were trampled upon by
"Moreover. the Chinese 19th Route
the authorities in power and the op-
Army, all Cantonese. was re-enforced
pression of Japanese nationals was
by the bodyguard of General Chiang
redoubled in ferocity, the situation be-
Kai-shek. In all. six Chinese divisions
ing climaxed by the murder of Japa-
faced the Japanese at Shanghai. and
nese. in particular. the killing of a
therefore, additional Japanese re-en-
party of Japanese army officers.
forcements were sent 1o the scene.
"The situation was such that the
The situation finally became quier
Japanese residents and even the na-
after a general attack by our troops.
tive population of Manchuria and Mon-
Troops Now Returnhng
golia did not know a moment's secu-
"Now that our objectives have been
rity from murder and robbery. Con-
gained. the Japanese are steadily re-
ditions became worse. and finally in
turning by the shipload to Japan. In
the autumn last year. Chinese troops
blew up a section of the South Man-
brief. the foregoing is an outline of
churia Railway at Peitaying. which
the recent activities of the army.
made it necessary to send Japanese
"When we consider the situation
troops to the scene in order to protect
the railway. Since that time. the Jap-
from the standpoint of national de-
anese troops bad to face overwhelm-
fense, the importance and depth of the
ing odds in daily engagements. but it
question are such that it connot be
was largely through wholehearted sup-
considered on the same terms as the
port of the people of Japan that the
Siberian expedition or the Tsinan in-
spirit of our soldiers was sustained
cident. From one point of view. the
and the difficult situation mct and
situation is more serious than the Rus-
overcome over a long period of time.
so-Japanese war and it is natural that
Big Odds Encountered
the officers and men of the Japanese
"For six months only 30,000 troops
forces felt their blood course through
maintained peace and order in an area
their vcins as on no other oceasion
more than two and a half times as
"Through the efforts and co-opera-
large as the Japanese Empire. protect-
tion of the people of Japan we hope
ing the lives and property of 1,000,000
to bring the matter to a successful
Japanese nationals and ensuring the
conclusion.
security of 30.000,000 Manchurians.
"The co-operation of the army and
During this time the army also cover-
navy in the recent operations was such
ed the first line of national defense
is has rarely been seen in our hi
without trouble.
tory and we can be proud of our r
"At the beginning of the Manchurian
cord before the rest of the world.
incident, our troops stationed in Man-
"We hope that you will understand
churia were composed of the 2nd Divi-
the mission of the army and give us
sion and an independent garrison. the
your sympathetic co-operation."
total strength amounting to only 14,400
men. including 4.000 in the Mukden
area. The total Chinese force at the
time was 220,000. with more than 14,000
of them around Mukden. In view of
this difference in strength. a mixed
brigade was dispatched to the scene
from Korea immediately and re-en-
forcements were sent later from time
to time from Korea as the situation
warranted. With this small force, the
Japanese swept before them many

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
EEU
DIVISION OFSOR EASTERN AFFAIRS
I telephoned Mr. Kato
of the Japanese Embassy and
referred to the faot that
the Japanese Ambassador had
left at the Department copies
of Visoount Saito's speech
before the Diet as Foreign
Minister. I inquired whether
the Embassy had the text of
Viscount Saito's speech as
Premier. Mr. Kato replied
that the Embassy did not have
the text of this speech.
As we shall undoubtedly
receive the text of Viscount
Saito's

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Saito's speech as Premier
by mail from our Embassy at
Tokyo, there appears to be
no need to ask that our
Embassy at Tokyo telegraph
the tert of this speech.
m.m./.
FE: MMH: EJL

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.96)
MP
GRAY
U
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Tokyo
3-
Dated June 3, 1932
Rec'd 7:15 a.m.
FROM
Seoretary of State,
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
F/LS
SUN 3- 1932
te
148, June 3, 7 p.m.
Depertment of State
Full text of Saito'
speeches before Diet
as Premier and as Foreign Minister telegraphed to
894.032/102
Japanese Imbassy, Washington, who will be able to
supply text tc the Department.
NEVILLE
KLP RR
JUN:
5

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/103
793.94 Shangha1 Round Table/28 FOR Tel.#593 10am
SEE
FROM ....China
(......Johnaon....) DATED
June 2. 1932
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
meeting of the Imperial Diet. The Diet was formally
opened this norning in the presence of the Emperor.
Premier Saito will probably address the Diet in
reference to the proposed Shanghai round table con-
ference.
1s
in

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
WP
PLAIN
Peiping
Dated June 2, 1932
Rec'd 12:30 a. m.
Seoretary of State,
Washington.
593, June 2, 10 a. m.
Following from Nipon Demog, Tokyo, June first:
"The sixty-second session of Imperial Diet whioh
came into being on the twenty-third of last month but
adjourned due to the assassination of Premier Inukai was
formally opened at two o'clock this morning in the presence
of the Emperor.
It is understood that Premier Saito in his address
to the house of the Diet will refer to the proposed round
table oonference for the settlement of the Shanghai dispute.
He will speak approximately as follows:
The armistice agreement was formally signed on May
first and the expeditionary forces were entirely withdrawn
on May thirty-first. Conditions prior to January twenty-
eight have been restored and this affords an opportunity
for a round table conference to be held. Various aspects
of the Shanghai incident have no doubt stimulated the
powers

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 - No. 593 from Peiping
powers conoerned to study the question and take measures
to see permanent peace established there".
JOHNSON
JS

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
032
MET
2l.t
FROM
GRAY
Division of
Rerp
F/HS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Peiping via NR.
NUN 4-1932
Dated June 4, 1932
Departwment of State
JUN4
1932
Reo'd 7:30 a;m.
894.032/104
Seoketary of State,
Washington
611, June 4, 5 p.m.
Does the Department desire the Legation to transmit
by naval radio text of Admiral Saito's statement in the
Diet on June 3rd?
JOHNSON
KLP-HPD
JUN

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM SENTAM
epartment of
TELEGRAPHT
Jume
1 fom
AMERICAN LEGATION
PEIPING (ONINA).
141
Your 611, June 4, 5 p.m.
No. Japanese Ambassader has furnished Departmemt
with text of Saito's statement as Fereign Mimister.
Sirinom
w
894.032/104
JUN
4
1982
FE: MOH:EJL
FE
Mm.m.H.
Enciphered by
Sent by operator.
M.,
19.
Indes Bu.—No. 50.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/105
SEE
793.94/5302
FOR
Tel.#618 noon
FROM .....Chine
(..Johngon......) DATED
June 6. 1932
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
Viscount Saito's speech to the Diet.
Reuter report from Nanking gives comments of a
sookesman of the Chinese Foreign Office on -.
He states that at first the Japanese Government
denied any active support for Manchuicuo, but now
Viscount Saito openly announced support for the
new state.
1s

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
WP
PLAIN
Peiping
Dated June 6, 1932
Reo'd 2:25 a. m.
Seoretary of State,
Washington.
618, June 6, 12 noon.
Following from Reuter, Nanking June fifth:
"With reference to Viscount Saito's speeoh yester-
day a spokesman of the Chinese Foreign Office today
stated that the Shanghai agreement would not limit the
movements of Chinese troops which have perfeot freedom
to move in Chinese territory. The Chinese troops are
now remaining at their original posts instead of Viscount
Saito's allegation that they are the prescribed distance
from Shanghai.
As regards Viscount Saito's statemont concerning
the origin of the trouble at Shanghai the spokesman said
he regarded the statement as unilateral saying that the
oauses of the Shanghai incident were due to Japaneso
aggrossion and if Japan did not adopt hostile action
nothing untoward could happen at Shanghai.
The spokesman statod that China is willing to
attend

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 - No. 618 from Peiping
attend round table conforenoe if it is of the nature of
tho Washington Conferonoo and aimed at the sottloment of
the Sino-Japan issuo as a wholo.
With reforenco to Manohukuo tho spokesman doolarod
that at first tho Japanese Government denied any aotive
support for Manohukuo but now Viscount Saito openly an-
nounoed support for the new state. This fact is making the
Chineso authoritios moro suspicious of Japanese sincerity
in intornational dealings".
JOHNSON
OIBWP

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/411
Te1.608 2pm
SEE
FOR
894.032/106
China
Johnson....) DATED
June 4. 1932
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
feeling of insecurity and unrest in Japan.
Viscount Saito's address before today's meeting
of the Diet, dealt particularly with the -.
Quotation from news despatch.
18

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
PLAIN
o1b
Peiping via NR
Dated June 4, 1932
Recd 6:15 a.m.
Seoretary of State
Washington.
608, June 4, 2 p.m.
Following from Reuter, Tokyo, June third:
"The urgent necossity of displacing the feeling
of insecurity and unrest and ensuring stability of life
formed the keynote of Admiral Viscount Saito's statoment
of thc new Governmont's administrative policy in the
Diet today.
The new Premier painted a gloomy picture of
the aoute economio depression which is causing severe
misery in the agricultural districts and hard times in
the oities but he pledged his Government to do its
utmost to maintain peace and order, to relievc unemploy-
ment, effect a rcvival of agricultural communitics,
stabilize living conditions and lessen the difficultics
in financial circles.
In laying stress on the need for purifying politios
Admiral Saito declared that tho National Government would
seck the

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- # 608 from Peiping
seek the support of the two big political parties that
would favor neither.
The Government's aim, he wont on, is to exterminate
prevailing ills and to realize thc aspirations of those
clamoring for political reform so as to turn today's
condemnations into the confidenoe of tomorrow."
JOHNSON
OIB

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/107
SEE
793.94/5296
FOR
Memo.
FROM
..State_Dept.
(....Stimson.....) DATED
June 2.1932
Secretary
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Foreign relations of Japan.
Copy of speech to be made by Minister for
Foreign Affairs at the opening of the Diet,
concerning the -.
Copy of speech handed to the Secretary by
the Japanese Ambassador.
1s

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.96)
H
Division
S
4
JUN 6 - 1932
FOR RELEASE FRIDAY, JUNE 3rd, 1932.
9CR
Department of State
f6
ADDRESS OF THE MINISTER FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF JAPAN, VISCOUNT
MAKOTO SAITO, AT THE OPENING OF THE DIET, JUNE 3: 1932.
894.032/108
I have the privilege of reviewing, on this occasion,
the latest developments in the foreign relations of this
country.
We are all gratified to watch the rapid restoration
of peaceful conditions in the Shanghai area following the
conclusion on May 5th of the Sino-Japanese agreement for
the cessation of hostilities. I may say that in the course
of negotiations leading up to this agreement, we encountered
not a few difficulties and that the earnest labors of the
British Minister to China and the representatives of other
friendly powers on the spot as well as our own attitude of
fairness and rectitude largely contributed to the final
happy outcome. And I desire to avail myself of this oppor-
tunity to express my sincere gratitude to the of ficers and
men of our army and navy who fought in the Snanghai area and
rendered signal service to our fatherland. I also desire to
express my profound sympathy with the victims of the ronhing
incident of April 29th and, par icularly, my infinite grief
100
at the death of General Shirakawa, Commander-in-Chief of the
expeditionary force.
According to the terms of the agreement, Chinese troops
are to remain at a prescribed distance from Shanghai and
-1-

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
-2~
Chinese forces are to cease as far as it lies within their
power all hostile actions in Suenghai and its vicinity.
Should action of the Chinese army give occasion for apprehen-
sion, the reprosentatives of the four powers, Great Britain,
the United Suates of Aerica, France and Italy, are to ascer-
ta in the situation. As long as these terns of the agreement
are observed, there is little likelihood, for the present at
least, thet any fresh disturbances will be caused by Crinese
soldiers in the Sanghai district. In these circumstances,
it has been decided to call home the whole of our military
forces, relying as stated in the declaration or the Minister
of War published May ll upon operation of the agreement and
upon such action as friendly powers shall take in order to
insure permanent peace in Shanghai. I cn sure that the com-
plete withdrawel f our troops will demonstrate, as nothing
else could, the truth of the repeated declarations of our
Government as to the absence of any political design in our
recent expeditions. However, it is the only terms for end-
ing hostilities between the Chinese and Jepnece forees that
have so far be en arranged. No measures have yrt been takon
to establish permnont peace in the Shanelai cistrict. It is
absolutely neccss ry to tak- Purther steps in order to establish
such conditions as viil enable both Chinese and foreirners in
Shamvhai te live in safety and purcue tleir buciness in pea e
if the prespority of this great internati nal metropolis bui
up by their beceerul labors for many decaces is to be main-

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.97)
tained. Indeed, if that city could be freed from the men-
ace of such sporadic disturbances of various kinds as have
occurred time and again in the past, it would pove a boon
not only to its residents, Chinese and forein, but also to
China and all the powers interested in Chine. I cannot
therefore but look eagerly forward to the early opening and
complete success of the round table conference which is
desired by the Japanese Government and which was contem-
plated in the resolution of the Council of the League of
Nations adopted with the concurrence of China on February
29th.
In Manchuria we note that the new state is making
steady progress with fresh zeal and resolute will. I am
well aware of the great interest vwhich is naturally manifest-
ed by our people in the future of Manchukao and I believe
thet it is no loner possible to ignore the existenee of that
state in any international read jus tments hich mey be made
with reference to the Manchurian incid nt. I br lieve that it
is of the utmost importance for the tranquillity of the Far
East as well as for the restorutien of the peace and prosp r-
ity in Hanchuria thnt the new state shoula att in h althy
growth.
Cnly the new governi. nt
hos not yet reached the
stage at whi ch it cun cormrnd sufriei nt rerourees for the
restoration of order whil the activities of soldier lundits
and other lawless elrments often instigeted from outsic re
extreme ly cifficult to suppress. Conscqu utly, cur tr ops in
-3-

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
anchuria are compelled to extend their necessary cooperation
to the protective functions of the ner: Governnent and to
guard against.
 any eventualities that might endanger
the lives and property of our countrymen or eventuate, in
general, disturbances on a major scale. Our prcfound thanks
are due the military and police forces serving in Manchuria
in the face of constant danger day and night and at the risk
of their lives.
Precedents con easily be drawn from the history of other
countries to show that political changes such as have taken
place in Manchuria are bound to be accompanied by activities
on the part of malcontents and lawless elements even where no
oxternal institution comes into play and it takes some time
in such cases before governmental machinery of a new state can
be fully set in order. I am strongly orposed to any impatient
and impetuous attitude toward the pro ress of events in lan-
churia. It is essential to give it time anc to address one-
self to effecting a sure solution of problems with which we
are confronted.
In the course of the present affair, it became necessary
for the Japanese arny to operate against soldier randits in
North Manchuria for the protection of the Japanese residents
there.
Thet we have always paid due respeet to the legitimate
rights and interests ef the Soviet "nicn in bat region and
have taken scrupulour care not to infringe or injure them is
clearly proved ly the conduet of our army.
Hereover, the
Japanese Governnent have repeatedly assured the Sovict Govern-
ment as to the true motive of our advance to the North which
-4-

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
does not extend beyond the protection of Japenese life and
property. I am certain that the Moscon Government fully ap-
preciates our position. Nevertheless there are some who
talk as though there were danger of war betveen Jepan and
Russia as a sequel to the Manchuria incident. I am sure I
can appeal to the good sense and discernment of cur people
not to be misled by such rumors.
The League of Nations, as you knov, maintained a close
watch over developments in Shanghai. During a temporary dead-
lock in negotiations for the cessation of hostilities, the
action of China who laid the matter before the League pro-
duced various complications. Nevertheless as the success of
the negotiations becare practically assured, the League de-
cided to tide over the crisis by relying upen the progress of
affairs on the spot. On April 30 the extraordinary session
of the Assenbly was convoked at which a resolution inviting
speedy settlement of the Shanghai negotiations was adopted and
the matter was brought to a close. The Jopanese Governer nt,
as they had previously entered a protest with regard to the
application to the Sino-Japanese disputes of Articlc 15 of
the Covenant, expounded the stand thus talken
end abstair
from voting on the resolution.
As regards the Commiss ion of the Leugue hich is enca
in conducting an invectigation on the spot, we are extend ing
to it all possible facilities at our disposal in order to helr
its members to fulfil their mission. I sincerely hope that
the Commissioners Jill
form a correct cnd feir ceneoption of
-5-

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
the actual conditions in China and Manchuria.
The outstanding issue besides Sino-Japanese affairs in
our foreign relations today is the matter of international,
political and economic readjustment. The Disarmament Confer-
ence which has been in session since last February is largely
concerned with this problem. This being the first great con-
ference ever convened to deal with the problem of disarmament
in general covering land, sea and air forces, it is expected
that its deliberations will last for some time. The Japanese
Government intend to insist
their
own points in accordance
with their settled policy end it is our sincere hope that
the Conference will achieve the desired results in the inter-
est of world economy and peace.
Finally, in regard to our economic relations with other
countries, it cannot be denied that owing to the adoption by
very country in order to protect its own industries of vari-
ous measures without parallel in the past, serious olstacles
have been put in the way of all international trade. The
Government of Japan have spared no efforts towards removing
in as great a degree as possible barriers to our foreign
trade. I am happy to report that within the present year we
have concluded a trade conventior and tariff agreement with
Portugal and French Indo-China, respectively.
Portug:J is a
country with which
since 19ll we have had no commercial
treaty and our trade with that country suffered accordingly,
Japan being placed in a disadvantegecus position as compared
with other powers. Arduous negotiations fruetified at last
-6-

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.96)
in the trade convention of March this year vhich has since
come into actual operation. With French Indo-China, in spite
of her being our very near neighbor, we had no agreement on
customs tariffs, the most important key to trade, since as
long ago us the year le96. It was only in the course of last
year that various obstacles that had protracted negotiations
between the euthorities concerned in Jopan and France one
by one began to be overcome vith the result th.at a conven-
tion was signed May 13 this year which is celculated greatly
to facilitate commerce between Japan and Indo-Chinn and to
strengthen economic ties between the two countries. Both
these conventions are to be hailed as signal contributions
towards the promotion of international uni ty and friendship.
The world is suffering today frim countless ills of
hich the economic depression is most acute. Japan, undergo-
ing the ordeal along vith other powers, faces many probloms
vhich avait international solution. The future of our forei
relations is beset vith grave difficul ties and nationel unity
and solidarity ure needed now more than ever be'ore.
dealing with this difficult situstion, let te pleed fr cum
port and cooperation of you all ond I shel' do the be.!t 
con.
-7-

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 19, 1932.
Tokyo's despatch No. 30 of June 30,
1952, deseribes the proccedings of the
Sixty-secend Session of the Imperial
Diet from June 1 to June 15. The des-
pateh lists the 19 bills which were
passed by the Diet with a brief desorip-
tien of each. All the important
measures have, however, been dealt with
already in previous despatches and in
the press. The session was remarkable
for decorum of conduct and quiok des-
pateh of business, the representatives
apparently recognising that political
parties and the parliamentary system
are being weighed in the balance of
publio opinion.
A preletarian representative was
the only one vigorously to oriticise
the Government. Among other things,
he said that the Inukai Cabinet was
virtually a robot in the hands of the
military and insinuated that the War
Minister was in collusion with the
perpetrators of the assassination of
the Prime Minister.
The matters whigh chiefly ocoupied
the Diet were finandlet, rural distress
and recognition of Manohuria.
The

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
The despatoh enoloses some trans-
lations of statements made in the Diet
on various subjeots. The Prime Minister
said: "It is the intention of the
Government to recognise the new State
as soen as possible. However, it is
not a simple question to be easily
settled, but it requires most oiroum-
speot consideration." He also said:
"The Government is anxious to recognise
Manchukuo speedily. But the matter re-
quires some preparatory arrangements
whioh cannot be expedited so soon", for
instance, the assurance of proteotion
of the safety of the Japanese in
Manchuria. He also said that "Japan's
withdrawal from the League is a problem
of very grave significance" and that
the Japanese Government has not the
least intention to depart from the
prinoiple of the Open Door and oqual
opportunity, and that the revision of
the Nine Power Treaty is another
important problem to be seriously
considered and studied.
2
LES:EJL

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.87)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, June 30, 1932.
No. 30.
Subject:
Proceeding of the 62nd Diet.
Offeo of Ecemomsis, Advianr
WJUL 22 1932
ESPARTMENR OF STATE
HL 162
894.032/109
 REO
01
DEPT
9
DIV
Division of
yle
FAR EASTERH AFFAIRS
894.51
AJUL 18 1932
Department of State
The Honorable
the ecretury of at to,
FLEU
usi.i. ton.
Sir:
he sinty  cond see ion of  e Im criul Diet was
 convened on he 1,
chei on Tme lsth.he e seion
vas tr ordry,
 to eidershe ple
nentury bet t ot ur ne
astres.
Teutur be
lupin: t is see ion
were s flos:
八
Ho. 1) 1. e.t ry

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
No. 1 Sup lementary Budgetary Estimate of
Revenues and Expenditures of the 193?-33
fiscal year of the various Depart ents of
the Government.
Special No. 1. Supple entary Judcetary Ustimates
of Revenues end Expen litures of Special
Accounts.
Extra-Budgetary Expenditures.
These measures have received s ecial attention in
7941.51/868
des patch o. 20 of Jume 17, 2. These bills cre the
subject of so e adverse cc ent, us ecially in the  ouse
of Peers. suron sat t: ni, for exa: le, described the
budget at t.c orst ever conpiled. e stated t at t ere
is a grie vous lack of equilibriu.. bet een revenue nd
expenditure. he Goverment, ei  le to ut fresh
public louns  t e r.et eit ur at ho e or broad, has
arran ed for the unk of Jupan'e tbseri tion t then
th rough the i: sue of inconverti le not s. ll this, e
stated, is due to vaste in t e st. he 27o,coo,000
loune to bo r iced i. t e res nt fime l yor o tuil
an unnual intorest
nt of ,0 , , iut the
coveriment
e o 1 de i n.u duelared that
in t e nex rise l eur t
rs luss out
in d ni or tiv en  re,
nat be a
readi ese 1l rourd opt eree mi n.
 folo ingime n bill re  the Diet:
1. Bill providing for oi t e i. La . 1 of lve
(icl rolates t t  ue   onne to cover ex
enditures i cs. etion it t e mc uri  af ir).
The bill rovitee for te flotation of a loan of Yen
192,500,000, the oney r innl  croby to be lied to
ex enditures

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
expenditures in connection with the Manchurian affair
for seven months( June 1932-January 1933). The amount
includes Yen 20,000,000 to be set aside as a reserve
fund for similar purposes. The issue of the new loan
necessitated a revision in the provision of Law No. 1
of 1932 providing for a Manchurian Affair Loan of
Yen 67,500,000, approved in the last session of the
Diet.
2.
Bill providing for the flotation of loans to cover
expenditures in the General Account for the 1932-33
fiscal year.
The bill provides for the issue of a loan
amounting to over Yen 160,500,000 required for covering
a deficit in the state revenue for the 1932-33 fiscal
year.
3.
Bill providing for the issue of loans to give
retirement allowances to approximately 20,000 officials
and employees dismissed on account of administrative
readjustments. The bill provides for the issue of a
1oan of Yen 25,400,000.
4.
Bill for the suspension of transfer of part of the
previous year's surplus to the national loan amortizabion
fund for the 1932-33 fiscal year and ensuing fiscal years,
and a reduction by two-thirds of the fund to be appro-
priated from the General Account for the same amortization
fund for the 1932-33 year and ensuing fiscal years. This
measure was necessitated by the conspicuous diminution
of state revenues consequent upon the present depression.
5.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
5.
Bill relating to the calculation of the value of
national bonds. The bill provides for the creation of
a standard value for all national loan bonds. It en-
ables holders of government bonds to carry them at a
fixed value, irrespective of the market price, in con-
nection vith the appraisal of properties provided for
in the Comnercial Code. It is designed to protect the
interests of the oimers of such bonds, to facilitate
the future issue of ioans, and to sustain the market
price of bonds.
Bill providing for amendments to the regulations
relating to convertible bank notes. It provides for a
partial revision of the regulations governing the tax-
free fiduciary issue by the Bank of Japan with a view to
authorizing the Bank to issue convertible notes on the
security of Government loan bonds, exchequer notes,
other securities and conmercial bills of a reliable
nature to the maximum mount of Yen 1,000,000,000 in-
stead of to the maximum amount of Yen 120,000,000 as
in the past.
7.
Bill relating to the payment of royalty by the
Bank of Jap n.
The bill provides for the creation of
a contribution or royalty to be paid to the Government
by the Bank of Japan of a sum corres ponding to the
minimum amount of money to be set aside as the reserve
fund of the Bank according to the provisions of Article 10
of the Bank of Japan Law.
This contribution or royalty
is

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
is to be paid to the Gover ment in each business term.
With the enforcement of this law, the former system,
by which the Bank must pay a tax for excess issue of
convertible notes and interest on the Government current
deposit, is abolished.
8.
Bill relating to the creation of a Board of
Councilors of the Bank of Japan, its function being
to act as an advisory body to the Governor on important
business affairs.
9.
Bill for the prevention of the outflow of capital.
This bill authorizes the Minister of Finance to take
measures to restrict or prohibit the sale and purchase
of foreign currencies and foreign exchange bills, trans-
actions or depositing of foreign currencies or contracting
of loans in foreign currencies, sale or purchase or import
of loan bonds, securities and other certificates vith a
value indicated in foreign currency, giving credit to
persons residing in foreign countries, remittances to
foreign c untries, et cetera. his measure is on the
order of an exchange control act and is intendd to
check all transactions intended to expatriate capital .
10.
Bill amending the regulations governing customs
tariff rates. lhe bill provides for increase of duties
on wheat, pig iron nd t.enty-seven other articles with
the object of restricting their importation and protecting
home industries. Chief interest centers on the new duty
on

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.86)
-6-
on pig iron, vhich is designed to chec: importations
from India. e new rates are ux ected to add Yen
16,c00,000 to cover.mment income.
11. ill rel tin to specific luties on im orts. The
bill rovides for a cnge in t  rates of i port duties
on certain articles(sz ite.s n all) sa ject to s ecific
dut at varying rates. pecific duties re r ised
unifor ly by Su in or l.r to  ke t em balnce the
increase in ad valore: tes resulting from the in-
creased rices of i orts due ts t e de reciation of the
ven.
12. ill rovilin for at te ia to com alsory
e uc ti nal cx c itures to e  te to T yo ity
un acu t of its bsor io   ty-tvo to 
vill e Prn ue ober lst.
10.illrovinPtrs
of t e  rioa o. aforce ut o  Pel ic Pi ng
shcour nt  in  aue to en ir t e l of
t
14.i1re
ur 0.1
s11u.
illisin
curtuin cusesto e t ofii l sis i
otrs.
Is. Sill F t c u e.e e. r siIk in. tock
vie to "l ti vices. is oill vrovt to for the
flot tion  a loan ofrox  ly n s, ,e for
t:e

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
the purpose of raising funds for purchasing the
accumulating stocks of raw silk to the amount of
8,831 lots, the purchase price being fixed at
Yen 4,522.25 per lot.
These stocks are held by the
Imperial Raw Silk Company, the Yokohama Specie Bank
et cetera, which advanced loans to the producers on
the guarantee of the Government in 1929-1930. The
Government decided to purchase these accuaulating
stocks of old silk and to dispose of them in such
manner as to avoid upsetting the market.
This bill
and the following bill resulted from the Government's
decision to prevent the proposed sale of silk to the
Asahi Silk Company for delivery to the Gerli Silk
Company.
17. Bill to compensate for losses incurred in regulating
the price of silk.
This bill provides for the issuance
of approximately Yen 52,000,000 in bonds to cover the
losses assumed by the Government due to the severe fall
in the price of silk nd to depreciation of the quality
of the stored silk.
This bill provides for
18.
the
amendment of the Commercial Code to bring practice
in regard to exchange bills and promissory notes into
conformity with practice abroad.
The text of the new law
is a translation of the reconiendations of the conference
held at The Hague in 1912.
19. Bill providing for the appropriation of 50,000 kwamne
of
* Not yet promulgated.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
of silver bullion held by the Mint for the rehabili-
tation of Japanese residents in China.
The Government encountered no great opposition
to its measures, and practically all of the Government
bills ere passed. In addition the Lower House passed
two resolutions of some significance. One calls for
the convocation of an extraordinary session of the Diet
within two months to consider measures to relieve the
distressed farmers and urges the Government to take
prompt measures in this direction.
This bill and the
condition of the farmers ere discussed in the mbassy's
994.61/16
despatch No. 19 f June 17, 1932.
. The other resolution
calls upon the Government to extend i cdiate recognition
193.0rmcamchuriaf 67
to Manchukuo(Vide telegram No. 158, June 17, 7.M.).
These two resolutions created more public interest
than all other proceedings of the Diet. In regard to
farmer relief the Premier has stated that he will call a
special session of the Diet in the near future to deal
with this problem. In reg rd to recognition of Manchu-
kuo, he stated to newspaper men" Recognition of the
Manchukuo regime must be made on en enduring busis.
Preparations re necessary.
Recognition is inevitable
and vill eventually be given no matter who becomes
Foreign Minister".
Many other measures were presented to the Diet
but failed of passage.
of int erest ong these were
one bill to grant suffrage to women presented by
Dr. Isoo Abe, and another calling for a r duction of
taxes on residantial land.
Seldom

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
Seldom if ever has a Diet session in Japan been
conducted with such decorum and despatch. The repre-
sentatives seem to have recognized that the parties
and the parliamentary system were being weighed in
the balance of public opinion. There vere no turbulent
scenes as have marked previous sessions. A dispute bet een
the two major parties at the opening of the session
over the appointment of parliamentary vice-ministers
and councilors called dowm such a storm of criticism
in the press that the matter vas hastily patched by
compromise. The ea erness of the parties to make a
good i pression end their obvious d sire to avoid
the usual partisan bickerings ere somewhat amusing
• to observers who have watched their truculence in the
past.
The only stron criticis of the Government cane from
a proletarian representative, r. Sugiyama, Who churac-
terized it as a re ctionary ministry eibodying the
olitical p rties, the Mitsui an Mitsubishi interests
and other capitalisitc elements. In words very strong
for a Japanese he openly criticized the Army for its
interference in politics, declar d t ai the Inukai
Cabinet was virtually a robot in the hands of the
Hilitary, and even insinuated that the War Minister
was in collusion  ith the young officers involved in
the May 15th outrages.
In reviewing the proceedings of the 62nd Diet
Session and the interpellations made in the two houses,
three matters are found to have occupied most of the
. These are(1)
time and energies of the legislators.
Financial measures, (2) Distress of the farmers,(3)
Recognition of Manchuria. The Embassy has followed
all

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
all of these matters in despátches and telegrams, re-
ferred to above. It would hardly be possible even to
outline the many other matters that came up for discussion
in the Diet, but I mention the following as worthy of
note:
There was some discussion of plans for inmigration
of Japanese to Manchuria . Mr. Nagai, Minister of Overseas
Affairs, stated that the Government had yet to work out
any definite plans for innigration.
The ar Minister, General Araki, was criticized
on several occasions for remaining in office after the
Hay 15th affair. He was asked several times to explain
the apparent lack of control over the younger element in
the Army.
Wis replies were evasive and he attempted to
explain that the whole affair was much exaggerated. The
affair itself was still being investigated, he stated, and he
could not as yet divulge the details. He did state, how-
ever, that he regretted that army officers had been involved
in the assassination of the Prime Minister, vhich he felt
reflected disrace on the Army.
1/2/3
I append hereto excerpts of discussions in the Diet
in regard to various matters such as the recognition of
Manchukuo, national defence and armament reduction, with-
drawal from the League of Nations, revision of the Nine-
Power Tre ty, et cetera. Although the remarks are dis-
jointed and somewhat fragmentary, they may be of some
interest to the Department.
Respectfully yours,
Noah. Jren
nclosures:
1,2,3. Excerpts of
Diet discussions.
Joseph C. Grew.
803.
WTT:sr

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.95)
Belosur No.
pro ipay
7
10230.
:Interpellations in the Lower
House
in regard to:
Recognition of Manchukuo.
Mr. Matsuoka:
"Concerning Manchuria and Mongolia, the present
member feels greatly satisfied at the statement of the
Premier that the Imperial Government considers that
the Manchurian State actually exists nd does not tolerate
any attempt to disregard or ignore its existence.
Now
that the Premier has  ade this explicit statement to the
great satisfaction of not only the present me ber but
the whole Japanese nation, I vonder why the Tremier does
not o a step further anl recognize the new Hanchurian
State. The procrastination of the Government in taking
that step is a matter of great diss tisfaction to the
nation. The solution of the pending questions betveen
Jap n and Manchuria is of course not an easy task and
may require much longer tine to settle, but the recognition
of the new Republic of anchuria should not be delayed.
This
is what the nation requires of the Government to be carried
out at the erliest possible moment".
Viscount Saito replied:
"It is the intention of the Government to recognize the new
State as soon as possible. However, it is not a simple
question to be easily settled, but it requires most circum-
spect

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
spect consideration. In this connection, the Govern ent
is st dying the mutter fron political, economic and other
angles with creat prudence".

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
pa.
2
grom Amerlcan Eabasny
rokyo.
Interpellations in the House of
Peers' Budget Committee on June
13th in regard to:
Recognition of Manchukuo,
Withdrawal from League.
Baron Ida:
" I assume that the present supplementary claim
for the Manchurian affair has for its ultimate
object Japan's support to and recognition of
Manchukuo. In his recent speech before the House,
Premier Saito stated t at the existence of a new
state in Manchuria was a matter of reality and as
such this country could by no means disregard its
existence. This utterance of the Premier is a sort
of political axiom, as I take it. Replying to Mr.
Matsuoka's interpellation in the Lower House the
other day, Premier Saito stated that he wished to
grant recognition to Manchukuo as speedily as ossible,
but since the matter is a uestion of grave significance
having bearings on political and various other phases,
the Government must deliberate carefully and make an
elaborate study on the problem before it to recognize
the new State. From this statement I presume that the
Premier already acknoledges the existence of the new
State and is ready to give it formal recognition.
AS
I have stated before, the claim contained in the
supplcmentary budget has an important bearing on
extending support to Manchukuo and giving it full
recognition. Therefore, the approval of the present
budget by this House would mean such recognition.
To

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
to be more precise, approval of the present supple-
mentary budget by the Diet is an explioit manifestation
of the vhole Japanese nation's will to support and
recognize the new Manchurian State. I should like to
have a clear
statement by the Premier on this parti-
cular point".
(
Premier Saito replied as follows:
"As I stated in the other House the other day, the
Government is anxious to recognize Manchukuo speedily.
But the matter requires some preparetory arran ements
which cannot be expedited so soon.
Mere formal re-
cognition will not do. Until after all necessary
preparatory arrangements, for instance the assurance
of protection of the safety of the Japanese in Manchuria,
et cetera, are com leted, the Government deems it pre-
mature to comply with the request of the new State for
its recognition.
The Government is now pushing on the
work of expediting such preparatory arrangements or
negotiations. It cannot do anything at present unless
those necessary arrancements re completed.
As soon
as they are finished the Government will of course pro-
ceed to give recognition. As regards the sup lementary
budget, the greater amount of the expenditure contained
tierein is the outlay on account of the Army detailed
in Manchuria for the protection of Jap nese and Japan's
interests in the region. You will please understand
t at this forms the most important ite. of the additional
claim".
The

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
The interpellator(Baron Kusuda) again stated as follows:
" I should like the Premier clearly to understand
that the approval of the present claim by the Diet
leads to the conclusion that the Japanese nation
recognizes and supports the new Manchurian State.
Bearing this in mind, the Premier would do well to
proceed to recognize Manchukuo as sp edily as possible
and thereby to satisfy the wish of the nation. Since
the Premier is determined to recognize Manchukuo, I
take it for granted that the Pre ier is naturally
possessed of some counter-measures to deal with the
forthcoming general meeting of the League of Nations next
September in thich the Manchurian issue is to be taken
up for discussion.
On such presumption I should like
to ask the Premier
one ore thing in that connection.
In the newspapers a few days ago I read to the
effect
that, re lyins to a uestion put by the Associated Fress
correspondent in Tokyo, Viscount Saito, in his dual
capacity as Premier and Foreign Minister, stated that
Japan might be obliged to ithdraw from the League
of Nations under certain circumstances, although the
Premier did not vish such circustance to arise. Now
I presume that by "certain circumstances" the Premier
meant the non-reco gnition of Manchukuo against Japan's
intention to recognize it, or insistence by the League
on lacing Manchuria under mandatory rule contrary to
Japan's vishes. May I presume that the Premier has
determined to recognize Manchukuo after taking into
consideration the possibility or inpossibility of
such occurrence as mentioned??
Premier Saito replied:
"I cannot satisfy Baron Ida by setting forth a program
for

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.91)
-4-
for an hypothetical e ergency. hat I stated to
the issoci t d Press correspondent was nothing but
my nswer to his c ery us to vhat course I would
take in cuse such eventuality mi ht occur h renfter.
I wish yu to understa that it vas nything but a
co..cree rc 1y.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.97)
3
Snelosure .
3d
Deapatst 
rom sa bass
Tozyo.
Interpellations on Recognition of
Manchuria, Nine-Power Treaty, et
cetera,
and
Premier Saito's replies
thereto.
At
the
Budget Comnittee
Meeting of
the
Lower House on
June
6th.
(Mr. Kodama(Seiyukai member) put an interpellation
to Premier Saito concerning the report that
in an inter-
view Mith Glen Babb, Tokyo correspondent of the Associated
Press, the Premier expressed his vieys about(1) Japan's
Withdrawal from the League of Nations (2) Recognition of
Manchuria(3) Principles of Open Door and Equal Opportunity
in Manchuria and (4) Revision of the Nine-Power Treaty, and
asked the Prenier to expound his opinions on those subjects
before the committee as he did to the Associated Press
representative).
Premier Saito, replying to the member's interpellations, said:
"The first question, namely, Japan's withdrawal from the
League, is a problem of very grave significance and I
said nothing definite to the American corres ondent in that
respect. Nor am I in &  osition to say anything definite
about that question, and I cannot touch that problem at this
place now. Very important as the atter is I must carefully.
deliberate on the guestion in case Japan is confronted with
such necessity.
"Concerning fanchukuo,I am of the opinion that Japan should
recognize the new State as soon as possible hen the state of
affairs

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
affairs in that country developa to a stage justifying
recognition, but in the opinion of the Japanese Government
recognition is still premature. Then, as regards the
principle of the Open Door and Equal Opportunity in
Manchuria, this is Japan's avowed principle as re-
peat dly declared by the Government. The Imperial Govern-
ment has not the least intention to depart from that
principle it being its sincere intent and purpose
strictly to abide by this principle. Lastly, the re-
vision of the Nine-Power Treaty is another inportant
problem; a uestion to be seriously considered and re-
quiring deliberate study. I myself have to make a thorough
study on the subject if such issue crops up in future, but
so far no concrete opinion or  lan has been formulated on
that subject. In short, That I stated to the Associated
Press correspondent was  sum ary of the principle and
measures pursued by the Imperial Government up to the
present, and did not go beyond what I have just stated. I
said nothing as to what measures Japen was going to take in
future. of course, I an not in a position to sayanything
in that connection, especially as such matters belong to
the sphere of diplomacy and are cuestions to be settled
hereafter".

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
89
SEE
894.00 P. R./55
FOR ....Daspatah..38.
94.032/
FROM .... JaDan
(.....Gram
.) DATED July.l132.
TO
NAME
1-1157
REGARDING:
Convening and ad journment of the 62nd session
of the Imperial Diet and bills passed during
its sessions.
hs

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.94)
7E
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
D:
GRAY
MET
RV
Tokyo
24
F/G
Dated August 24, 1932
Rec'd 10:05 a. m
Division of
220
Secre tary of Sta te,  FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.032/111
AUG 24 1932
Washington.
X
032
218, Augu st 24, 9 p. m.
894.
The Foreign Office has informed foreign press corres-
pondents that about 2, oo0 wo rds of the speech on foreign
affairs which is to be delivered by Count Uchida in the Diet
tomorrow will be cabled to the Japanese Embassies in Wash-
ington and Iondon to be reloased to the press at the same
time that the speech is delivered here. Therefore, as the
important parts of the text will presumably be available
in Washington, I shall not cable its substance unless other-
wise instructed.
GREW
RR-WSB
LLD
193

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.97)
E
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M. I.D
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
WP
FROM
PLAIN
Peiping via N. R.
REUEIVED
25
Dated August 25, 1932
F/G
DIVINION AF
Rec'd 2:45 a. m.
4.00
Division of
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
AUG 25 1932
894.032/112
1006, August 2,
Following fro Reuter, Tokyo, August twenty-fourth:
032
"Speeches of Count Uchida Foreign Minister, Viscount
894.
Saito Premier and Tayahaihi Minister of Finance to Diet
tomorrow are being eagerly awaited. Count Uchida speech
893.01
is understood to be confined to question of Manchukuo and
China.
according to professedly reliable reports Japanese
recognition of Manchukuo will take place about September
seventh but official quarters indicate that recognition
is unlikely before latter half of September as General
Muto Japanese chief representative in Manchuria must first
proceed to Changchun the capital of the new regime after
which it will be necessary for Privy Council to deliberate
FILED
71932
concerning outcome of conversations held there".
JOHNSON
CIB WP

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.91)
A. The G2nd ession of the Imperial iet.
he sixty-second extraordinary sessien of the Diet
was opened on une 1 in the presence of His jesty the
aperar and was olosed on June lsth with remier Viscount
aito ruadint the Imporial resoript orderin the adjourm-
wont.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.97)
COPIES SENT TO
ZE
O.N.I. AND M.I 
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
cib
GRAY
F/HS
Tokyo
Datod August 27, 1932
Rocd 2:07 a.m.
2.00
Division of
894.032/113
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State
AUG 27 1932
Washington.
221
894.032
,ugust 27,oon.
The Japanose neyspapors without excoption cxpress
no
hoarty approval of Count Uchida's speech before the Diet
50
894.
on the 25th. They highly commend the implication that
Japan will recognize Manchukuo without regard to abstract
theories and characterize the speech as being a clear
expression of the national sentiment, conviction and
determinution. They also welcome the speech as indicating
a bold and original Foreign Office policy instead of
previous timid policy.
Repeated to Peiping.
GREW
CTB WP

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/1
893.01-Manohuria/405
Te1.#1012-4 pm.
SEE
FOR
FROM
China
Johnson.....) DATED
Aug.26,1932.
-干G---
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Press comment on Count Uohida's speech before the
Japanese Diet.
fpg

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
FE
MP
PLAIN
Peiping via N.R.
Dated August 26, 1932
Rec'd 7:15 a.m.
Seoretary of State,
Washington.
3
1012, August 26, 4 p.m.
594.
Following Seron Lester, Shanghai, August 26th.
0
"Commenting on the speech made by Count Uchida,
Japanese Foreign Minister, in the Imperial Diet concern-
ing Manchuria, the NORTH CHINA DAIPEN NEWS remarks that
it is not possible to endorse the view that Japan's in-
tervention last year and the subsequent creation of the
quasi-independent state of Manchukuo represented an ex-
pression of the wishes of the poople of Manchuria.
Nor can it be admitted declares the paper that
the course of events in Manchuria suggests the sturdiness
and health of the new state of which Count Uchida dilates
though the journal adds that this does not imply a belief
that Manchukuo cannot survive its infancy or a condemnation 
of present administration at Changchun merely because it
is mainly Japanese.
Of Japanese ability to bring peace to Manchukuo
in a military sense there can be little doubt but the
original views of the Japanesc General Staff in this re-
gard have been greatly modified in respect of the time
required

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
MP
2-#1012 From Peiping August 26, 1933
required for pacifications of disorder now prevailing
which is not entirely the product of influenoes outside
Manohuria.
THE NORTH CHINA DAILY NEWS adds that Count
Uchida's speech is a powerful speech but it shadows the
general tone of a man who ostentatiously turns his back
on the world's efforts to place relations of nations
on a better basis.
It brings the sword once more into full view
not as a final arbiter when all methods of persuasion
have failed but s an instrument for substitution of
those effcrts at the outset. It depreciates the
validity of international agreements by making them
entirely subordinate to material welfare of one party
without regard to sanotity of pledged word.
THE NORTH CHINA DAILY NEWS declares that no
amount of sophistry such as fantastic statement that
'the independence of Manchukuo was achieved through
the spontaneous will of the Manchurians' will cancel
this plain implication in the speech.
Count Uchida's rejedion of 'sentimental
propositions and abstract theories' in favor of so-called
solid realities as a definite declaration that Japan
finds

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
MP
3#1012 From Peiping ugust 26, 1932
finds herself unequal to task of cooperating in the
world's search for praotical solutions of the world
problems along lines of reasoned discussion and generous
compromise and patient negotiation keeping in the fore-
front those eternal principles of justice and honor
without which mankind would find existenoe unendurable,
says the paper in conclusion".
JOHNSON
WSB

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
115
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/430
Te1.#1023. 2pm
SEE
FOR
China
Johnson
Aug.29, 1932
) DATED
FROM
894.032/115
NAME
1--1197
REGARDING:
speeches by Count Uchida, Japanese Foreign Minister, in
the Imperial Diet.
dew

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 15, 1932.
Tokyo's despatoh No. 110 of August 27,
1932 (by Mr. Benninghoff) gives a resume of
the first five days of the recent session
of the Japanese Diet, during which period no
bills were passed.
The despatoh reports briefly Mr.
Kaku Mori's speech advocating the "Back to
Asia" polioy whioh has already been reported
in the press here. He said that the unfortu-
nate plight of Japan can be traced to the
surrender of Japan to oocidental civilization
during the last 60 years. If Japan would
sever its conneotion with the Oocident and
devote its energy toward establishing
permanent peaoe in the East, it also might
serve as a hint to the Western nations of
their degeneration. Recognition of "Manohoukuo"
would be the first step in this direction.
The Foreign Minister stated that Japan is
determined not to compromise in its polioy
toward Manohuria and Mongolia and that the
foreign powers must realize this attitude.
In response to one of several attacks
against the Government's emergenoy relief
measures the rinance Minister said that the
total loan obligations of the Government amount

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
to almost seven billion yen. He said that it
was desirable to buy gold abroad against fu-
ture lifting of the gold embargo but that
conditions were not ripe for suoh action.
There were also interpellations with re-
gard to the assassination of Prime Minister
Inukai and the Government answered that it
hoped to make a report on the assassination
during the present session.
Mr. Seigo Nakano, a member of former
Home Minister Adaohi's new party, said that
the speeoh of the Seoretary of State (of
August 8) was a ohallenge to Japan and that it
charaoterized Japan as the aggressor in the
Sino-Japanese confliot while the matter was
still before the League of Nations. The
Foreign Minister answered that it would serve
no purpose to disouss the Amerioan Seoretary's
speeoh in the Diet.
A copy of the English text of the speeoh
of the Foreign Minister furnished by the
Foreign Office is enclosed. This does not
differ with the copy supplied to the Far
Eastern Division by the Japanese Charge
d'Affaires except for the fact that the copy
supplied by the Foreign Offioe some definite and
indefinite articles not in the copy supplied
by the Japanese Embassy and the faot that in

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
the second sentence of the first paragraph on
page 5, whioh reads "Consequently, the view
expressed in certain quarters that the reoog-
nition by Japan of the new state, thus
created, would constitute a violation of the
stipulations of the Nine Power Treaty, is
in my opinion inoomprehensible", the words
"by Japan" do not appear in the copy received
from the Embassy.
MA
LES:CLS

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Japan, August 27, 1932.
No. 110
SUBJECT: Day-by-day Résumé of the 6Srd Diet.
F/HS
PM RECO
SEP 10 32
C
894.032/1
894.032
CyutE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
9
SEP 12 1932
Department of State
SFP 1 7 1982
Fe Honorablo
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washinton.
Sir:
There follows a day-by-day résumé of the proceedings
Qll
clips
of the cSrd Session of the Imperial Japanese Diet, which
met in entra-orainary session on 1onday, August 22, 1952,
to discuss emerceney relief measures.
Monday, August 22.
Both houses met in the morning and adjourned after
hearing the Imperial Reseript convening them.
Tuesday,

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.95)
UNITED STATES OF
Tokyo, Japan, August 27, 1938.
No. 110
SUBJECT:
Day-by-day Résumé of the 63rd Diet.
PM REC
SEP 10 32
C
894.032/116
894.032
TE
Davision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 12 1932
Fe Honorable
SEP 1 71982
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washin ton.
Sir:
There follows a day-by-day résumé of the proceedings
Ql
clips
of the 63rd Session of the Imperial Japanese Diet, which
met in extra-ordinary session on Monday, August 22, 1932,
to disouss emercency relief measures.
Monday, August 22.
Both houses met in the morning and adjourned after
hearing the Imperial Rescript convening them.
Tuesday,

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
8-
Tuesday, August 23.
The Emperor formally opened the Session, following
which committees of eaoh house were appointed to draft
replies thereto.
Wednesday, August 24.
The day was spent by both houses in nominating
comittees and their chairmen, and otherwise completing
organization for the session.
Thursday, Aucust 25.
The House of Peers was called to order at 1o A. M.
The Premier, Viseount Makoto Saito, made a speech in
whicl he noted that the new nation "mnchuluo" was cetting
along better than exyeeted, and that the Japanese Govern-
mont was talcing stoys to rant it a de jure recognition
as soon as possible. He then referred to the emer ency
relief measures proposed by the Govermment (despatch No.
105, August 25, 1932), and asked the Diet to pass them
speedily. He was followed by the Foreign :inister,
Count Uchida. An Enclish text of his speech, furnished
by the Foreign Office and carefully checked by the Embassy
with the actual speech, is enclosed herewith. It is an
excellent declaration of Japan's policy toward China and
"Manchukuo", but contains nothing which has not already
been said by Japanese protagonists. The Governnent's
relief measures were then attacked by Count Hokei Yana-
gisawa, particularly the proposed cut in interest on
Postal Savings deposits, which was answered by the Premier.
The House of Representatives met at I P. M., and the
Premier and the Foreign Minister read the same speeches
they had presented to the Upper House.
They were follo

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
as outlined in the Embassy's despatoh No. l05 of August
25, 1938. He admitted the inadequacy of the supplementary
budget for the present fiscal year, but laid great stress
on the three year program of rehabilitation, which is also
disoussed in the Embassy's despatch referred to above.
Details of this program, as well as those of the supple-
mentary budget estimates, have not yet been made public.
The totals mentioned by the Finance Minister, however, agree
with those obtained from the press by the mbassy.
Then followed the most interesting interpellation
0
of the day, by ir. Kaku ori, an influential member of
the Seiyukai, and a man having considerable personal in-
fluence. He stated that the speech of the Foreign
Minister indicated that the Governient is approaching the
problem of the recognition of "Manchukuo" from a strictly
legalistic viewpoint, creatine thereby a dangerous feeling
of optimism among the Japanese people and disregarding the
probable actual international results. What has the
Foreign Linister done with regard to the situation abroad
when such recognition is cranted? It is evident that re-
lations with China, the United States, and the League will
get worse rather than better, and preparatory steps must
be made.
He then advocated the "Back to Asia" policy, which
has been the policy of his party ever since the Tanaka
Cabinet of 1928. By this he meant the separation of
Japan from the materialistic civilization of the Ocoident,
and a return to the old spiritual life of Japan. The
Occidental civilization has entered into a period of de-
dence, and the unfortunate plight of Japan can be traced
urrender of Japen to shat oivilization during the

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
last 60 years. If Japan would sever 1ts connection with
the Occident, and devote its energies toward establishing
permanent peace in the East, it also might serve as a
hint to the Western nations of their degeneration.
The
recognition of "anchukuo" is the first step in this
direction, and it should be done inmicdiately. Finally,
he asked the following question:
What are the exact preparutioe te covernent is
makine toward reco nition, and hos near to co pletion
are they?
What will be the possible international
repercussions of sueh action, und what steps has the
covermlent taken to counteract them?
ow does the
covermaent think reco nition vill affeet the international
financial osition of u un?
Is the Govermient fully
prepared to meet the possible crisis that may arise be-
tween Japan and the other nations as a result of such
recognition?
The Foreign linister re lied that preparations for
recognition are under way, but refused to reveal the
nature or de ree of preparations  ade. lc also stated
definitely that Japan is deter ined not to compromise in
its poliey toward  anchuria and Mongolia, and that the
Powers must realize this attitude. ir. Mori replied to
this that the policy toward "ifanohulcuo" is not satisfac-
tory in many respects, and that there was considerable
uneasiness.
He was followed by Ir. Kiroku Okuchi, of the Seiyukai,
who attacked the emergency relief measures as inadequate,
and maintained that more drastic measures should be
adopted.
He also wanted to know what the Government was
going

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.92)
- 5 -
going to do about the drop in the exchange value of the
yen. After a few remarks by the Premier, the Finance
Minister replied that it was aditted that the relief
measures are inadequate, but that the total loan cbliga-
tions of the Govern ent alount to almost soven billion
yen, and vere a souree of worry to the sovermtent.
This
could not be av ided if relief measures vere to be carried
out.
Regaraime e chavu eontvol, he suid there were two
vays;
sote co trles crau r trade, but Jaan
tries to cneoura e lome inaustry ruther than foreign trade.
The low interest rates  o used be the uovere cnt were aimed
in this c reetiou. le also saia thut it vas desiruble to
buy cl a a     c ld r.
but collitions sere mos ri e f sucl action.
.. holu mawasahi o te  seito uslea sev rul sues-
tions wich wese rejlica to by the vina ce, Jo crce  i Indus-
try, una riculture ua Ferestry inisters.
fcr followed .r. numi atou mada, a me ber of the
Seiyukai and re utet to have been a trusted friend and
adviser to the late re ier Inutai.
He remarked on the
uneasiness of the public mind, and called attention to
the Govermment's  rolise to pro:ote national spirit by
guaranteeing a livelihood to the people at large.
He
referred to the death of Irenier Inukai at the hands of
soldiers, and also to the Meiji Sugar Copany scandal
which recently broke out in the press, and said that the
Government should have provided the Diet and the country
with details of these occurrenoes in order to ease the
publio mind. Regarding the Meiji Sugar Company case,
he said that the company since 1928 had evaded taxes to
the amount of forty million yen, but that small businesses
had to pey taxes or have their property attached. He

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.96)
一6.-
then took up the question of prefectural gubernatorial
changes effected by the Saito Cabinet, and aocused it of
trying to strike at the influence of the Seiyukai in the
provinces. He then took up the problem of the dismissal
by the Minister of Overseas Affairs, lr. Nagai, of Ir.
Kishimoto, the Governor of Japanese Saghalien, and wanted
to kno why no answer had bcon iven by the Government to
Ir. Kishimoto's open letter.
In re ly, the rre iur saie he hoped that the Govern-
ment would be in a osition to ake a reyort on r. Inukai's
death durine the present session. ith recurl to the eiji
Sugar Company seandal, he saii that the matter was still
under investigation.
The Overseas .inister re licd to tie interpellation
regarding the dis issal of . kishimoto by asserting that
the state of affairs under his ad inistration necessitated his
dismissal, and that a change in policy vas necessary fol-
lowing the wholosale felling of trees in that territory.
The next interpellation vas by Ir. Seigo Nakano, a
08
member of Adachi's new party.
He referred to the assass-
ination of the late Irenier, and asserted that it was n
indication of the teper of the country, and that such an
incident is one that would embellish the opening chapters
of a revolution. He then referred to the relief measures,
and outspokenly maintained that they were not only wholly
inadequate, but also helped the bankers and finanoiers,
rather than the farmers and small business men, who are
the ones who should be aided the most.
"What is desired
is the inoreased purohasing power of the people."
Turning his attention next to, foreign affairs, r.
mo attacked the polioy regarding the recognition of

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
manohukuo", and asked whether it would take place as
Goon as General Muto arrived in Manohuria.
He then re-
ferred to the "aggressor" speeoh made by the American
Seoretary of State. He said that the speech was a
challenge to Japan, and that it characterized Japan as
the aggressor in the Sino-Japanese conflict while the
matter was still before the ca ue of ations.
He wanted
to know what the authorities of the Foreign Office had
done about that speech. Regarding the League of Nations,
he said that the difficulties of Japan in that quarter had
recently increased, and that Japan, fron present indica-
tions, would probably be defeated 53 to 1 in the forth-
coming meeting of the Assembly. He wanted to know what
preparations had been made to eet this possible outcome.
Replyinc, the Premier explained the policy followed
in formulating the relief measure, and said that a  tudy
of the items would show that the Governient does not lack
plans to deal with the troubles. The Foreign Iinister
then said that all preparations for a de jure recognition
of "Manchukuo" are complete and that there will be recog-
nition in a short time. He also said that it would
serve no purpose to discuss the Alerican Secretary's
speech in the Diet.
Friday, August 26.
The House of Peers met in the morning, and inmediate
attention was given to the assassination of the late
Premier.
The Government stated that a full report would
be given the Diet sometime during the present session.
There followed considerable disoussion, during whioh the
financial policies of the Government were oritioized.
of Representatiyes spent the day disoussing
seel bills which had been presented to

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8-
the Diet. It was objeoted that some of the bills would
benefit the bankers rather than the individual debtors,
and also that the rate of interest on some loans was too
high. The bills were all put in the hands of conmittees.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
E. R. Dickover
First Secretary of habassy.
806.-Japary.
Enclosurd:
Copy, in translation, of
Foreign inister's speech.
Copy to the Legation, Peipinc.
Copy to the Legation, Berne.
IDB/a

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
THE ADDRESS OF COUNT UCHIDA, MINISTER FOR FOREIGN
AFFAIRS, AT THE 63RD SESSION OF THE IMPERIAL DIET
- AUGUST 25. 1932.
At the June Session of the Diet my predecessor took
occasion to report upon and discuss the outstanding
foreign relations of this country.
Today, in view of
the importance of the developments in Manchuria that have
taken place since then, I desire to review the questions
of Manchuria and China proper, and to describe in some
detail the policy of the Japanese Governnent...
We are all ratificd to note that lanchuluo has
entered upon a cureer of sturdy and healthy progress.
The Japanese Gove ment are convinced that the reconition
of this new state is the only means of stabilizing con-
ditions in MManchuria and of establishing a condition of
permanent eace in the Fur ast.
nd it is with a view
to the early extension of formal recocnition to Manchukuo
that we are ma in various arrange ents, upon the expected
com lation of wich in the near future, our plan will be
carried throuch.
However, there are those in other countries who do
not fully comprehend the attitude of Japan toward China
nor the measures she has taken since the Incident of
September 18 of last year, and who, in default of a
correct conception of the &dvent of anchukuo, look upon
any recognition of Manchukuo by Japan as an illegitimate
prooedure. In view of such misunderstanding as still
persists, I avail myself of this opportunity to clarify
Japan's position and to expound to you the reasons why
ornment consider the recognition of Manohukuo to

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.97)
一 8 
be the only means of solving the Manohurian problem, al-
though in doing so I may have to repeat what has already
been set forth in the successive declarations and state-
ments issued in the past by the Japanese Government.
It is an indisputable fact that the ohaotio condition
of China, and the so-called revolutionary policy carried
on by China under t.e enthralling influence of an extra-
vagant political dogna, have been principally responsible
for the unfortunate turn that international relations
have taken of recent yeurs in the lar ast.
Although
Japan has been the chief vieti: of the abnormal state of
affairs in China, other countries have also suffered in-
tolerable indignities and incalculuble matorial loss. At
the sale ti e it is ud itte by those conversant with the
actual conditions in Clina that no reledy can be effocted
by having recourse either to the Covenant of the League of
Nations or to any other organ of what may be terued the
"machinery of peace". In fact, it has beon the practice
of the Powers, as has been demonstrated on innunerable oc-
casions, to repair, or prevent, injuries to their important
rights and interests in China by the direct application of
force, without relying upon those instruments of peace.
For over twenty years Japan continued to exercise
the greatest patience and moderation, in the hope that
some day China might soberly undertake the task of re-
habilitating her fortunes and playing her proper role
in the maintenance of peace in the Far East.
China
failed, however, to show any sincere desire to reciprooate
our good will and kindly sentiments, but inoreased more
than ever in her arroganoe and intolerance. Our govern-
 tock pains time and again to point out to China the
dangor

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
denger she was running in trying too far the patienee of
Japanese people. But China did not heed our warnings.
The Inoident of September 18 ocourred in Manohuria, the
very region regarded as the first bulwark of Japan, at
the precise moment when the feeling of our people had been
wrought up to the highest pitch by repeated provooations.
We had no alternative other than to resort to measures of
self-defence.
There are those who argue as though the aotion of
Japan were a violation of the Kellogc-Eriand Anti-War Pact.
But such a contention has no founuation in fact. As I have
stated, Japan hes been forced to adopt the necessary
measures for the irevention of wanton attacks upon im-
portant richts and interests vital to her national existence.
The Anti-War Pact does not put a restraint upon the exer-
The
cise of the right of self-defence in such a case.
Pact does not prohibit a signatory Power from taking at
its owm discretion whatever steps it finds imperative in
order to renove innediate menaces to its territory and its
rights and interests of whatever kind. And obviously,
the exercise of the right of self-defense may extend
beyond the territory of the Power whioh exeroises that
right.
Japan's action is essentially identical with
the action that other Powers have taken elsewhere in
similar circumstances.
Following upon this action legitimately taken by
Japan in the face of the Chinese attaoks, the officials
of the régime presided over by Chang Hsueh-liang either
flod or resigned, as you know, with the result of the
mstieal extinotion of that régime. In the meantime,
leaaing people of Manehurie, who had long re-
sontoa

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
sonted the tyranny of the Changs and were opposed to
plunging their land into the civil turmoil of China proper,
a projeot for politioal reform was already under way.
It is in every way natural that these leaders should have
taken, as they did, advantage of the opportunity afforded
by the dowmfall of Chang to launoh out upon an aotive move-
ment.
A "Peace Maintenance Connittee" was accordingly
organized in lukden, in llarbin, and in other centres. In
view of our owm responsibility in respeot of the mainten-
ance of peace and order in Manchuria we extended the
necessary co-operation to these comittees. It was the
Manohurian leaders connecteu with these conmittees who de-
cided that the hour had struck for founding a new state.
The establishment of  anchukuo was an outcome of a separatist
movement having for its background the ceo raphic and
historical peculiarities of anchuria as well as the psycho-
logical characteristics of the Manchurian people.
Those who seek to place upon Japan the resporsibility
for the Wanchurian revolution, by tracing the independence
of anchukuo directly to our military operations, simply
labour under an ignorance of the facts, and their opinions
altocether miss the point.
Again, as regards those who
fancy they detect a secret connection of some sort on the
part of Japan with the foundation of the new state, basing
their suspicions on the fact that there are in fact a
number of Japanese in the employ of the Manohukuo Government,
I need only point to the existence of many precedents for
the enlistment by a young government or a newly founded
state of the services of foreigners. Our own government,
since the Meiji Restoration, have employed many foreigners
as advisers or as regular offioials; their number, for
instanoe,

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
noe, in the year 1875 or thereabout exoceded 500.
Those who misoonstrue the presence of Japanese in the
Manchukuo Government in the fashion alluded to, are
placing the responsibility where it does not belong.
Manchukuo has come into being, as I have already
remarked, as a result of separatist movements within
China herself. Consequently, the view expressed in
certain quarters that the recognition by Japan of the
new state, thus created, would constitute a violation
of the stipulations of the Nine-Power Treaty, is in my
opinion incomprehensible. The Nine-Power Treaty does
not forbid all separatist movements in China, or debar
the Chinese in any part of the country from setting up
of their free will an independent state. Hence, should
Japan extend recognition to the existing government of
Manchukuo, founded by the will of the people of Lanchuria,
she would not thereby, as a signatory Power to the Nine-
Power Treaty, violate in any way the stipulations of that
treaty. of course, it would be a different matter on
the assumption that Japan was seeking to annex Manchuria
or otherwise to satisfy a thirst for land. Only I hardly
need to waste words in once more disclaiming at this
juncture any territorial designs on our part in Manohuria
or anywhere else.
Thus far, I have elucidated the theses that the
attitude maintained by Japan toward China, and especially
the measures we have taken since the Inoident of September
18, have been just and preper, that the independence of
been eehieved through the spontaneous will

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
the stipulations of the Nine-Power Treaty. Now let me
proooed further and dwell upon the reasons why the Japanese
Government consider the recognition of Manohukuo as the
sole effeotive means of solving the Manchurian problem.
With regard to the question of finding a solution
for the Manchurian problem, the Japanese Government attaoh
the createst importance to the following two points:
First, that in seeking a satisfactory solution we should
aim at the fulfilment of the legitimate aspirations of
the Manchurian people, - at adequate guarantees for the
rights and interests of Japan, - at the prevention, in
order to make Manchuria a safe Place to live in alike for
Lanchurians and foreigners, of any recrudescence of the
erstwhile anti-foreign policy and movements, and finally
at bringing not only stability to lanchuria but permanent
peace to the Far East; secondly, that such a solution
should be effected by rejecting all ser timental propositions
and abstract theories and arrived at upon the solid basis
of the realities of the situation. In view of the ciroum-
stances that led to the outbreak of last September and the
1mmense sacrifices our country has been compelled to make
in the past, the Japanese Government feel the imp rious
need of arriving at a fundamental solution of the Manchurian
problem on the lines of these two propositions, and of
eliminating for all time the causes of the secular Sino-
Japanese oonflict.
On the other hand, it appears that in certain quarters
a plan is being considered to reaoh a solution by patching
up matters for the moment by investing China Proper in one
form or another with authority over Manchuria. That such
plan would ouly serve so repwoduce the situation precedss

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
have been taught by bitter experienoe in the past.
The
people of Japan can never oonsent to a solution of that
kind. Moreover, it is as olear as day that the invest-
ment of China Proper with power over Manohuria, under
whatever guise, is totally irreconcilable with the politioal
creed enunciated in the Declaration of Independence and
other public stutenents of the Hanchukuo Governlent, and
therefore that the sche e in question has no chance of be-
ing acce ted by the anclurians.
The iposition upon
Manchuria of what is not wanted by anchurians would be
as unjust, as ill-advised, in that it would only end by
sowing the seeds of future trouble in that land.
The
plan to invest China Proper with uuthority over anchuria,
and all measures of a similur te poriing kind, will never
fulfil the object of nakin Manchuria a safe and happy
land for both natives and foreigners, nor do they accord
with our principle of finding a solution upon the basis
of the realities of te situation. Jertainly it is not
the way in which to bring stability to anchuria or perma-
nent peace to the Far East.
Manchukuo has set out upon an honest programme that
is open and above-board.
It has declared its intention
to pursue a policy of justice, peace and friendship toward
other countries, to take over the obligations of existing
treaties accordine to international law and usage, to re-
spect the vested rights and interests of foreigners, and
to protect their lives and property, to welcome all aliens
and to acoord them equal and equitable treatment irrespeo-
tive of their racial origin, to adhere to the prinoiple
of the Open Door, to promote international trade, and to
contribute

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.96)
一 8-
contribute to the economio development of the world;
and Manchukuo's sinoerity of pur ose has been definitely
established. It is plain, therefore, that to extend to
Manohukuo formal recognition and assist its governaent
to carry on their sound policy above referred to, will be
a notable step tovard aking lanchuria a happy and peaceful
land for natives and forei nere alike on the busis of the
realities of the situation. nd it is plain, too, that
such io the only vay to secure a pemanent solution of the
LManchurian problem.
As lone as Manchukuo Putuin the storline spirit in
which it wus founded ane perseveres in its hich purpose,
it is assure: of a future full of pro ise.
Here ana there
we find persone entertai ing un elasctruted fear of the
perils of banditry in mancluria or maline a sloomy fore-
cast recarding the finances of the country. But we refuse
to join the company of these pessimists.
Upheavals brought about by lawless ele c ts are uni-
versal phenomena to be observed in newly established states
anywhere in the world.
Whereas in most of such cases it
takes some considerable time to put the unrest dowm, it is
only fair to say that in IJanchuria the suppression of
banditry is making comparatively rapid strides. As for
the financial status of Manchukuo, I have been told that
it is good, really far better than was anticipated at
first by the Manohurian authorities. In view of the vast
territory, the thriving population, and the inmense natural
resouroes in its possession, there can be no doubt that,
Manchukuo, given a good government, will emerge as a rich
and preeperous country and come to be a great market for
the

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
the world. It is my hope that the healthy development
of Manohukuo will not only bring happiness and prosperity
to thirty million inhabitants of the country but will
serve as a good example for the rehabilitation of China
Proper.
As regards the conditions prevailing in China Proper,
I regret to say that the growing disturbance in her domestio
administration, coupled with the rampant activities of the
com unist bandits throughout an extensive area in the Yangtze
Valley and South China, is casting a gloomy shadow on the
path of the National Coverulent.
osides, as the anti-
foreign, especially anti-Japanese, move ent still continues
unabated, further complications are likely to arise in the
foreign relations of china, which in turn will make her inter-
nal confusion vorse confounded. Truly, our deep syipathy
is due to the Chinese people, who have to suffer under
these troubled conditions. To allow such conditions to
persist as they are, I am firmly convinced, will not only
be deplorable for China herself but will constitute a con-
stant danger of bringing about a serious menace to the
rights and interests of foreign Powers. on the contrary,
the whole world will rejoice, should China realize the
gravity of the situation, cast aside her ill-advised for-
eign polioy and adopt in earnest a constructivo programme
of devotion to the task of internal re-adjustment. It
goes without saying that Japan, always oonscious of the
general interests of the Far East, will spare no effort
to afford all possible assistance to China. Indeed, it
is my fervent hope that the day is not far distant when
Japan, Manohukcuo and China, as three independent Powers
olosely linked together by the bond of cultural and

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/117
SEE
893.01-Manohuria/445
FOR
Despatch #333
FROM
Great Britain
(.Atherton...__..) DATED
Sept.2.1932
NAME
1-1187
REGARDiNG: English Editorial Comment on Cotnt Uchida's
Speeoh before the Diet.
fpg
1:7

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 28, 1932.
JEJ:
Tokyo's despatoh No. 115 of September 7,
1932, gives a day-by-day resume of the last
seven days of the extraordinary session of the
Japanese Diet.
The Finanoe Minister stated that, with re-
gard to the polioy of repayment of national
loans, the Government is not without plans,
but as they are "in the nature of a stratagem",
he thought that it was unwise to make them
publio at present.
The House of Peers, in a seoret session,
heard a report on the assassination of Prime
Minister Inukai, but little is known of what
transpired (page 2).
The Finance Minister indioated that the
Government has no intention of flooding the
country with ourrenoy. He said that artificial
control of the yen would be harmful and that
loss of confidenoe within Japan had caused
its deoline (page 3).
The Foreign Minister stated that he was not
in a position to announoe the future moves of
the Government but that steps were being taken
with regard to a possible defeat of Japan at
the League Assembly (page 4). In case Japan
w. e opposed by all the world on its recognition

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
of "Manohoukuo", he said that adequate steps
would be taken and that the people of Japan
were prepared to meet any eventuality (page 5).
In oonneotion with an advance on Jehol,
the Minister of War stated that it was not
easy to settle matters of that kind beoause
of international questions involved and that
relations with China will have to be con-
sidered in making any deoision in the matter
(page 5). The Minister of War said there is
no knowing when a crisis will ocour in rela-
tions with other countries. So the military
authorities are pushing on with preparations
to meet any emergenoy (page 5).
The four government bills relating to
the budget were passed, slightly reduoed.
Other bills passed are listed on pages l0 and
11.
The Diet session was not a violent one.
The ohief feature was the opposition of the
Seiyukai to two of the Government's proposals
(page 9).
MA
LES:CLS

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, September 7,1932.
No. 115.
SUBJECT:
Day-by-day Résumé of the 63rd Diet.
2.2
F/HS
THE UNDER SECHETARY
ct01
P2132
894.032/1
DEPARTMENT OF BIATE
Division of
X
8
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 26 1932
The Honorable
PJT
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
Continuing my despatch: No. 110 of August 27, 1932, on
the sa e subject as the present, there follows a day-by-day
résumé of the 63rd Session of the Imperial Diet from Satur-
day August 27, 1932, through its last meeting on Sunday
Sept mber 2, 1932.
Saturday August 27.
In the House of Peers Ir. Kazue Shoda, a former Finance
Minister, violently attacked the Government's financial pro-
gram, and denounced the relief measures as mere surface-
scratching. He demanded fundamental reforms in taxation,
control

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
control of the exchange situation, official loans and debt
readjustment. His speech lasted two and one-half hours.
In reply, the Premier said that he could not answer questions
relating to the Bank of Japan without investigation, but that
the relief plans already presented formed the Government's
fundamental policies in that regard. Further plans concerning
rice and silk would be presented to the Diet in December, he
said. The Finance Minister then said that exchange control was
not deemed advis able at the present time, and intimated that the
Government had more than actual financial measures to worry
about. When asked as to the policy with regard to the repayment
of national loans, he answered in general terms that the Govern-
ment is not without plans, but as they are "in the nature of a
stratagem", he thought it unwise to make them public at present.
In the House of Representatires the Law of Mediation of
Debts was discussed first, (see Embassy's despatch No. llo of
August 27, 1932). The Seiyukai and Adachi's party were against
it for various reasons, while the Minseito supported it. It was
put before a committee of 18. Other measures dis cussed were the
bill for the readjustment of debts of agricultural guilds, and
the compulsory education loan bill, which after argument pro and
con were put in the hands of committees, together with opposition
bills of like character..
In the evening, the Cabinet decided to prolong the Session
of the Diet by three days, or through September 2nd.
Sunday August 28.
The House of Peers met in secret session in the morning to
hear a report on the Inukai Assassination. Little is known as
to what transpired, but it is believed that there was no parti-
cular opposition to what was said. In the afternoon the finan-
cial

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
oial polioy of the Government was criticized, but no action
taken.
In the House of Representatives there was no plenary
session, the budget committee spending all day in discussion
of the relief measures. The Finance Minister withstood a
barrage of questions. In answer to which he indicated that the
Government had no intention of flooding the country with cur-
rency. He also defended the official banks, said that the De-
posits Bureau has no intention of selling its bonds to make
more money, and refused to promise any further reduction in
the Bank of Japan's interest rate. He asserted that artificial
control of the yen would be harmful, and said that loss of con-
fidence within Japan brought about its decline. Most of the op-
position came from the Seiyukai, and the Finance Minister, once
a Seiyukai Premier, was harsh toward his quondam associates.
The rice control law revision also came in for attack, the
Minister for Agriculture and Forestry answering.
Monday August 29.
The House of Peers did not meet in plenary session, a meet-
ing of the committee on petitions being the only activity for
the day.
The House of Representatives met in the morning, and various
members' bills were presented, but nothing of importance trans-
pired. Various committee meetings took place in the afternoon.
However, a sharp conflict broke out between the Government
and the Seiyukai over the Rice and Cereal Law. As at present
constituted

=== Page 165 === (confidence 1.00)
constituted, this law provides a high and low price for the
year, the Government buying and selling just enough to keep
the price levels within a predetermined range. Although the
Government for a time advocated a change in this system, it
changed its mind, thereby rousing the ire of the Seiyukai,
which proposes that the Government buy as much as possible and
store it, which practice would keep the price of rice at a
high level.
Though it was rumored that the violent opposition thus
engendered might lead to a possible resignation of the Cabinet
or dissolution of the Diet, competent observers thought that
public opinion would not allow the Seiyukai to bring about any-
thing which would postpone the emergency relief legislation so
seriously needed by the country. It was possible that, in order
to save the face of the Seiyukai, the Minister of Agriculture
and Forestry, Mr. Fumio Goto, might resign and be replaced by a
Seiyukai man.
Tuesday August 30.
The House of Peers met only in various comnittees; nothing
of importance appears to have transpired.
The House of Representatives attempted to meet in the morn-
ing, but could not do so due to a Seiyukai obstruction creating
a lack of a quorum. It succeeded in meeting, however, in the
afternoon and listened to several private bills, all being re-
ferred to committees.
The most important meeting was that of the budget committee.
The Foreign Minister, in answer to an inquiry, said that he was
not in a position to announce the future moves of the Government,
but that steps were being taken with regard to a possible defeat
of Japan at the Assembly of the League; he thought that fore ign
reactions

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
reactions to his speech were showing that other countries were
beginning to understand better the position of Japan. When
asked what Japan would do if opposed by all the world on its
"Manchukuo" recognition, he said that adequate steps would be
taken, and that the people of Japan were prepared to meet any
eventuality.
After further discussion regarding Manchuria and China, it
was asked whether bandit depredations in South Manchuria, pre-
01
sumably at the instigation of Chang Hsueh-liang, necessitated
an advance on Jehol. The Minister of War answered that "it was
not easy to settle matters of that kind because of the inter-
national questions involved", and that "relations with China
will have to be considered in making any decision in the matter".
Following the noon recess various que stions concerning the
alleged insincerity of the Government regarding relief, and de-
fects in the proposed program were put, which were answered more
or less evasively and in general terms. The meeting again turned
its attention to Manchuria, and the Minister of War again said;
"There is no knowing when a crisis will occur in relations with
other countries. So the military authorities are pushing on with
preparations to meet any emergency. On the other hand, we are
working in concert with the authorities of the Foreign Office
for the prevention of a situation which might involve us with
foreign countries. We are acting on the conviction that it is
best to be fully prepared against any emergency."(JAPAN ADVERTISER
translation).
The meeting then again discussed the relief measures, and
the several Ministers were interpellated regarding the working of
the various sections of the Government's proposals.
Wednesday

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Wednesday August 31.
The House of Peers did little, as the Government's bills
were still being debated in the Lower House. The budget com-
mittee, because of the importance of the subject, was increased
from nine to fifteen members. The revision of the Natural Dis-
aster Relief Fund Law was passed, it being introduced here first
to save time. It was sent to the Lower House for consideration.
The House of Representatives finally succeeded in passing
a number of bills. The four budget and extra-budgetary finan-
cial bills were passed unamended, but with a resolution calling
onthe government to exercise great care in their administration,
and advising that the three-year plan be changed to a two year
plan. Details of these bills are not yet available.
The Lower House also passed the extraordinary State subsi-
dy to primary schools without amendment; then it passed the much
moot ed revision of the special account law relating to Rice.
There had been more discussion regarding this proposal of the
Government than on any other, and the bill as finally passed was
amended in such a form that the Government, through the Minister
of Agriculture and Forestry, could not agrec to it. The Seiyukai,
however, had a majority, and the anended bill was passed without
undue trouble. It was e xpected by the evening papers that some
sort of compromise would be patched up, and that a further re-
vision would be made in the House of Peers following a compro-
mise of a joint committee.
Thursday September 1.
The House of Peers opened in the morning with a speech on
finances by the Finance Minister. He said nothing new. Several
bills which had passed the Lower House the previous day were de-
bated on for a short time, and then referred to committees.
The

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
The House of Representatives,meeting in the afternoon,
passed a law for the control of the silk-reeling industry,
amended; a Bill relating to special monetary accommodation
by the Central Bank of Cooperative Societies, and a Government
guarantee for the losses incurred by said bank through such
special accommodation, not amended; a Bill for the partial re-
vision of the Law for the control of Cooperative Societies,
slightly amended; a Bill partially revising the law controling
the Central Bank for Cooperative Societies, unamended; a Bill
concerning monetary accommodation on immovable property, the
Government to guarantee a certain per cent of the loss; a Bill
revising a law of the previous session regarding the flotation
of national loans, necessary for the supplementary budget; a
Bill for additional control of commercial guilds or associations;
a Bill controling the issue of presentation tickets, presumably
for taxation purposes; a Bill providing for the mediation of the
Law Courts for small amount debts.
Frid ay September 2.
In the House of Peers the four Government bills relating to
the budget were passed after being approved by a committee ap-
pointed to examine them. They thus became law, and were trans-
mitted to the Emperor for Imperial sanction. Other bills which
had been ent up from the Lower House were referred to committees.
During the course of the discussion it was pointed out that the
relief plans were inadequate. The Government bills relating to
agrarian debt adjastment and mediation of debts by the law courts,
which had been passed by the Lower House greatly anended, were
discussed at great length, the Minister of Agriculture and
Forestry stating that the Government could in no way accept the
amendments

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
amendments which had been made.
The House of Representatives did nothing important, and
little interest was shown in the session. Petitions were handled.
Late in the day it was announced that the Session of the
Diet had been prolonged for an other day.
Saturday September 3.
The day was spent by both houses in many sessions and
recesses, interpersed with joint committee meetings to try to
discover com romise measures on the rice and the debt adjust-
ment bills which had passed the Lower House. The Upper House
during the day passed its own amendments to those bills, but
they were defeated in the Lower House. Sessions continued in-
termittently during the day, until at ll p.m. the Speaker of
the Lower House anounced that the Session had been extended
another day, September 4.
All bills other than those in dispute were passed early
in the morning by the Upper House as brought from the Lower
House. The only bills left, therefore, to be considered during
the next day were the debt mediation bill and the debt adjust-
ment bill, which hinge on each other, and the rice bill. Whether
or not some sort of compromise could be effected was doubted.
Sunday September 4.
The Sessions of both houses again lasted almost until mid-
night, with frequent recesses for joint conferences. It finally
turned out that the Government's rice bill, with but slight
amendments, passed both houses and became law, while the debt
adjustment bill was rejected by the Upper House in the farm
passed by the joint committee, and thus was shelved. The debt
mediation

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
-9 -
mediation bill, in an amended form, was finally passed, but
its agrarian debt provisions, which hinged on the working of
the rejected bill, were naturally rejected.
As had been anticipated, the Diet session was not a vio-
lent one. There was only one case of a member being attacked
by opposition members, a rather remarkable record. The chief
feature of the Session was the opposition of the Seiyukai to
two of the Government's proposals. At first the Rice Control
Bill was attacked, and virtually a new bill was passed in the
Lower House by the Seiyukai majority. This party, as is well
known, has its strength in the rural districts, and the effect
of its bill would have been to force the price of rice as high
as possible, thus benefiting the farmers. This bill, however,
had in it more than a hint of speculation, and even involved
a system of lotteries. It was accordingly bitterly opposed in
the more conservative Upper House, while the vernacular press
editorially excoriated the Seiyukai for obstructing relief
measures by playing party politics and even, through the specu-
lation provisions, endangering the public moneys. The Rice
Control Bill which finally passed the Upper House was practically
the same as that which was originally introduced by the Govern-
ment, and the Lower House was forced, by public opinion more
than anything else, to back down and agree.
However, during the later days of the Session, when it be-
came more and more apparent that the Government's Rice Control
Bill would eventually be passed, the Seiyukai attacked the
Agrarian Debt Adjustment Bill. A compromise on this was never
reached, and it was finally shelved by the Upper House, which
could not agree to the amendments placed therein by the Lower
House

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
House.
The actual accomplishments of the Diet, therefore, are
as follows:
l. A Bill for the temporary increase of the state subsidy
to public primary school educational funds.
2. A Bill for the control of the silk-reeling industry.
3. A Bill providing for special monetary accommodation
by the Central Bank of Industrial Cooperative Societies,
and a Government guarantee for compensation for losses
incurred by the bank.
4. A Bill for the partial revision of the Law for the con-
trol of industrial cooperative societies.
5. A Bill for the partial revision of the Law for the con-
trol of the Central Bank of Industrial Cooperative
Societies.
6. A Bill for Government guarantees on loans on immovable
property.
7. A Bill, amending a Law of the previous session of the
Diet, to provide for an increase in public loans to
cover the budget deficit.
8. A Bill for the enactment of new legislation pertaining
to comneric al cooperative societies.
9. A Bill for the control of presentation tickets.
10. A Bill for the partial revision of the Law for the re-
gulation of the demand and supply of rice.
1l. A Bill partially revising the Rice and Cereals Law. This
was the one which was attacked by the Seiyukai.
12. A Bill for the enactment of provisionary arbitrary meas-
ures for the settlement of small amount debts.
13

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
13 to 16. These four bills comprised the budget esti-
mates. They were passed with but little
trouble, although the expenditures were
slightly reduced. An outline of the supple-
mentary budget as passed forms the subject
of another despatch forwarded in the same
pouch as the present.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
803. Japan
HMB:g
copy to the Legation, Peiping
copy to the Legation, Berne
X

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00-P.R./57
¥111
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
()r...) DATED...Sept.1.1932.
TEK
NAME
1-1187
894.032/
REGARDING: the 63rd session of the Japanese Imperial Diet. No important
legislation passed during the first part of August.
6
dew

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.96)
- 25 -
7.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION
The esrd session of the Japanese Diet, summoned by
an Imperial rescript of August 5, whioh was called to deal
exelusively with relief measures, was opened on ugust 22.
It was sumoned for a nine-day session but as the determina-
tion of the opposition made long disoussions inevitable it
was soon apparent that the bills could not be passod in
the allotted time nd the sesslon wns extended.
No iaportant legislation was actually passed before
the end of the month. The firat four days wore devoted
to the formal opening by His Majesty he mperor, getting
organized, and listening to the speeches of the remier
and the roreign inister. he last days of the month were
spent in heated discussions between the Government, on the
one side, and a very large faction of the majority party,
the eiyukai, and the new National League, on the other side.
The oppositionists attacked she Govermpemt's budget, ad-
vocated changes in the ice cnd cereals Law and opposed the
Government's project for read just ent of far ers debts.
(Ihe iet session is being thorou hl) troated in a separate
re ort fro. this abassy).
Embassy's despatch o. 110 of ugust 27.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
005.00 P. R./60
FOR Deepeteh / 1746.
SEE
Chime
Jo0n) DATED . 10, 1052.
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Recognition of Manchuria and the establishment
of the new state.
Speech by Count Uchida before the Japanese
Diet concerning the --.
hs

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.94)
-10 -
ment. Its accomplimhments consisted of the passage of
three budget bills, nineteen government bills, and two
important lower house resolutions, whieh are discussed
in another report frem this mbassy*.
On June 3  remler Visoount aito made two addresses,
the first in his capacity of remier and the socond as
roreign Minister**. oplas of ooth these spouches are
enolosed.
The first reaotion of a Largo seotion of the
Japanese press was to deplore the ramier's failure to lay
dom the Jefinite policies whioh the Covernsent would pur-
sue in dealing wit tho problems confronting the c  ntry.
owever, after a lapse of several days comment becamo
more favorable to the renier, it being said ths: he had
inspired the public with confidence that is cabinet would
study the probloms and come to the pest solution posaiule.
in the openins dn of te iet Coneral Araki. the ar
inister, expressed his profound rogret that eleven military
cadets were involved in the assassination of remier inukai
and offered is sincere apologies for his insufficient ef-
forts to prevert such ha panings. in defonse of his re-
tention of ofrice he suid that ho had pondered over his
course vory deeply un: had finally concludod that his duty
in the prosont momentous situation lay in continuing in
ofrice il. defiance of all adverse criticims so that he can
devote his best service to tho stste.
uch an abjuct
ajology seems not to have boen expected from an army of-
ficor trained in the Japanose military codo and lhis su-
orters have not failed to point out the qunlities of
high character displayed by the general in ramaining in
office and accepting moral responsibility for the inoident
instead of resigning or even camittinc suicide, for which
bed many preaedanta.
B.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.86)
.
with Ir. Stimsom's promoumeement befere him it might
reasomebly have been expecsed shat Ceunt Uakida's speeek
in the Jepamese Diet on lugust süth wonld shew a little
leas luability or umwillingmess te see the real primeiples
whien are at stake. ithvugu the Japanese Mmister of
Aureign arfairs umes the exprussion "on the basis of the
realisies of she situmtion" no leas tham three times 1m
two asee, 1t would be dirriculs to find an affioiel doo-
wmems whien glosses over reelities more glibly.
sothimg would be rurther from the truth, for example,
th tm statnt tht "the hri loaders... de
aided that she hour had struck for founding a nor state",
that "tae independenoe or nehuruo has been mokieved
Gurough ths spontaneous will of th anshurians", or that
"amkukme uas entered upon a career or sturdy and healthy
progrums". count Uobida oven goos mo far as to maintain
browoaly thnt "thust who suok to leco upon Japun tho res
poasibility for tns anomrian revolution . . . or who
fanoy tney deteot a souret sonneotion or mome sort on the
part ol Jepan wisn tist foun atioo or the nen stat. ...
simply iavor un er un igpormmoe or the faots mnd their
opislons ultogntler wiss she vuint". The whole world,
iuolwding se Je mnnm Lendere, knuwe thet this is a de-
liberate anu ludiorous dinturtion or rncts, and that
mos dng Dus Japun's iron uanu croated amd is mow support-
1m live anmmic lucal scainisiruslon, whian ie disliked
anu distrusted by the people in mnonuria.
wore verlous is Uonias's deo laration that no romedy
can b efrvoted by havint eoourno el sher so the Coenant
os

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00-P.R./58
145
SEE
FOR
FROM .......Japan
(...Gre.) DATED .Oct..4,1932
xxx
NAME
1-1197
894.032/
REGARDING: session of the Imperial Japanese Diet from August 22nd
until September 3rd, 1932. Sixteen bills were passed.
121
2
dew

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.92)
-18-
IV.COULOILTION
The Imperiel iet was in extreordinary sessios from
August a2nd until eptember Srd." s had been antieipated
the session was mot s violont one. Ther me only one ease
of a member being ettacked by opposltion members, a rather
romarkeble record. The ehief foature of the Session was the
oppsition of the olyukal to two of the overmment's propoeals.
At first the Hico Control Bill was atteoked, and virtually a
new bill was paesed in the Lower House by the eiyukai wajority.
This party, as is well known, has ite strength i" the rural dis-
triets, and the eff et of its bill would have boen to foree the
price of rice as high as possible, thus bemeriting the fermers.
Ths bil , however, had in it more than : hiat of aeculation,
and even lavolved a eystem of lotteries. It wa" eeca dingly
bittorly opposed in the more conmervative Upper Moume, w hile
the vermeeuier pres editorially excoriat d the eiyukai for
obstructing relief moasures by playing party politics and sven,
through the apeouletion provisions, endangering the puhlio
moneys. The Hice Control Bill whies finally passed the Uppor
House was prectieally the same as thet whioh wus originally in-
troduoed by the Covernment, and the Lower Mouse was far ced, by
publio opinion more t an auything else, to beox dowm and agree.
Howover
• Embassy's despate No. 1ls, of September 7,le3s.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.93)
-19-
However, during the la tor deys of the Session, whem is
besame more and more apparent that the Goverament's Riee Com-
trol Bill would evontually be passed, the Seiyukai attaeked
the Agrarien Dett djustmont 1ll. 4 compromise on this was
nover renched, and it was finally nhelved by the Upper House,
whieh could not ngre to the nmendsents plaoed therein by the
Lover House.
The aotual accompliehsents of the Diet wore to pass 16
bills as follows:-
l.  Bill for the temporary inerease of the state mubsidy
to publie primary vohool educatiomal funds.
2. A sill for the control of the m Ik-reelimg industry.
3.  Bill providing for epxeial monetary mocosodatiom by
the Con tral Fank of Industrial Cooperstive Soeieties,
and a Govermment gumrantee for compensetion for losses
ineurred by the hank.
t. a Bill for the prtial revision or the Law for the eom-
trol of industriel cooperative societies.
5. & Bill for the ertial rovision of the iaw fort he eom-
trol of the Central Bank of Industrial Cooperative
Societies.
6. A Bill for Government gurentees on loans on iwwovable
propety.
9. A Bill, amending a aw of the previoun ses ion of the
Diet, to  rovide for an inerease in publie loamm to
cover the budget derieit.
8.

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.92)
一0-
8. A Bill for the enaetmant of new legialasion per-
taining to cowoersial Gooperstive societies.
9. A ßill for the control of presemtation siekotse
10. A Bill for the partial revision of the Law for the
regulation of the demnd and supply of rice.
11. A Bill partis ly revising the Hice and Cereale Lam.
This was the one which was atteckmd by the Seiyukmi.
12. A Bill for thc enactment of  rovisionary arbitrary
measures for the sottlement of small amount debts.
15 to l6. These four bills oom rised the budget estimates.
They were paseed with but little trouble, although
the expenditures were slightly reduced.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/122
894.00 P. R./01
FOR DosDutab23.
SEE
) DATED January41033.
FROM Japan
1-1127
NAME
TO
122
REGARDING:
The 64th Session of the Imperial Diet was
convened for routine organization on
December 24th and was formally opened by
His Majesty the Emperor on December 26th.
hs

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.93)
- 11 -
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
The 64th Session of the Imperial Diet was convened for
routine organization on December i4 and was formally opened
844.032
b H1s Majesty the Emperor on Lecember 26. The party divisiom
in the Lower House was as follows: Seiyukai, £98; Minseito,
116; Kokumin Domei, 33; independent members, 17; vaeant, 7.
After the formal opening the Diet adjourned until Junuary £0.
à

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/1
FOR ...Despatch.#.278.
894.00P.R./62
SEE
(...Grew
) DATED February.2.1933.
1
FROM ....Japan
1-1127
22
NAME
TO
33
REGARDING:
The 64th session of the Japanese Imperial
Diet which was convened on December 26th
and then took a holiday recess, reconvened
on January 20th. No important bills were
passed before the end of the month.
hs

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.94)
-17-
COURSE OF LEOISLATION.
The 64th session of the Japanese Imperis? Liet, which
was convened on December 6th an then took a holl ay re-
1
cess, reconvened or Janusry oth. No important bills were
passed before the end f the onth.
The bil whic nas crawn most of the Diet's pttention
is the budget for th: fiscs1 year 193?-54. As stated else-
where in this report ther  ve been many interpellations
regar ing this pil and the sections covering the expendi-
tures or the erm n navy have received critieal attention.
However, it is believed tat it will eventual!y be passed
wi thout amendment.
The lep rtment for Home Aff irs nas submittec & bill
for the revision of the tlectorel Law. It provi es for
transferri g most of t e ex ense of clection caupaigning
from the artles  c ndidetos t the govern ent. It also
provi os for contro  the prefect rel gove nment of the
electionecrirg, ut ishing t latforms, circulsting cempaign
liter ture wene  he votors, et ceters. Ther is understood
to be cons'derctlc op   tion to this til an it may not
becoce law.
The rerert ert  sic tur For try as submitt d
a bili for gricultur ins r nee, n ther for tor cortrol of
to rice of ric,  f t lustmert of gricul-
trel ects. The second  ir il s c 1 for very irge
ex onditures r te i tst:y f Fie ce ie s i not to sup-
port them.
The wi-istry f Fin -c il sponsor about  dozen ills
the most im ortant f wh ch is the Excherge Coutrol Fill
nich

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/124
006.00.R./
SEE
FORDO.
FROM.
Japem
(G
)DATED1
TO
NAME
1-1127
2
REGARDING:
Diet was in regular session durinf the entire
month but its proceedings were marked neither
by the accomplishment of constructive legis-
lation nor by the bitter detates and "fireworks"
which have sonetimes in the past drawn to it
the attention, as well as the disgust, of the
public.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.94)
- 16 -
1V.
COUREE OP LEGIBLATION
The Diet was in ragular sessiom during the entire
month but its proceedings were marked neither by the
accomplishment of construetive legislation nor by
the bitter debates snd "fireworks" whieh have some-
times in the past drem to it the at ention, as well
894,
"s the disgust, of th: publie. It hes passed several
supplementery budget bil ls , which would be celled
Deficieney Bills in the Huited States, nd other minor
finaneiai meesures. The budget for le33-4 was passed
by the Lower house but had not pussec the House of
Peers when the month ended. Its main provisions have
not been chsnged from whet they were when diseussed in
previous monthly reports of this Eabesay. The Exchange
Control Law hss slso been possed by the Lower House.
It gives wide powers t the Winister of Finanee to
control exchange transsctions.
Diseusai ns in the Diet have been very mild. The
sembers aprnot to h-ve dared to critieize the aporo-
priatioms for the Army end Nevy end have gone no farther
than to express their dlsbelief in the Finance Winister's
theory that government expenditures wil! deeline in future
years.
An sppropristion in the budget for completing the
construetion of : harbor st Bsshin, Kores, wes subjeeted
to some criticism on the grounds that that port was said
to be lee-bound for saverel sonths of the year. The
xinistor

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/ 125
SEE
...894.00.P.R2/64
FOR ...Despatoh-#-348.
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED Apri1.1.1933,
TO
NAME
1127
5
REGARDING:
64th Session of the Japanese Imperial Diet
was brought to a close on March 25th.
Its accomplishments include the passage
of twelve bills relating to the Budget.
hs

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.91)
-14-
311.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFPAIRS.
The Géth Sessiom of the Japenese Imperial
Diet was bronght to a elose on Mareh 25. It was a
very quiet and uneventful aession and at timrs the
country simost forgot its existence. The sbsenes of
the wsual scenes of disorder can be attributed partly
to the desire of the politieal partios to make a
better impressin on the public. If they had taken a
more positive attitude the public might heve been
favorably impressed but the members were entirely pas-
sive. Their inertia was due to a gr it extent to fear
of what the wilitary nd the reactionary socisties
would do te wny wember who should siy wnything not in
Lime with their idess. There were no really snlmated
debetes snd little iuitietive wes shown by the members.
They all foliowed the r ther lstleas lesdership of
the Governmnt.
The rwears of a eh nge of C binet wslen have been
dis mased La prerises  athty reports continued daring
the sast month hmst it eas less end less probable
that Premier Saito  mld be ble to resign. It is
understood that for pers pael ressone he wuld like to
get ut. Hs is ges ing old and he cunsiders nis strength
to be n rdiy equal to the straia of being in offieo.
Fiasmce Minister Takeh shi Weuid Like to resign For sisilar
reasons, However, it is clear that the country has mot
yet coquired enough s mfidence in the palitical parties
to make it advisable th t she of thes take over the
reins

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.88)
-18-
reins of government und 1t would be diffieult to
find wnother coalition governmemt with whieh all
faetions wouic en perate as they have with the Saite
Governmemt. Ihe Toryo NiChI NicHI stated in an edi-
torial of Maren os , It seems thet the Premier is de-
termined to continue in frice at Leasi for the time
being. In this conneetion, it is srong to trase the
rumors about the rosignation of the 8 ito Cabinet to
jolitieni sohemers. It is the Lmck of power and nery
on the part of the Uover ment whiah cuused the impression
that its fall was near ....... I the remler fntenas to
romain in ofrios he muat realize hls res onelbiiity.
The omiy way for him to dispose of rumors obout his
tonure ud obse the ablio min. is to c zisoliuate the
positisn o! his Governwent." It looks us if the two
Nold aen, P. mier Lito nd Flnnoe lainter I kahaahi,
who for to bucxbone i the sovernment will aroo bly
secrifice tneir arssoa dusire au their euith for
the sake of their c untey -no sill corry on until sme
sort of a erisis arises oI until they give out.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.87)
- 18-
1
1V.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
1
The S4th Bession of the Jspanese Imperial Diet
adjourned on Mareh i5, hving been in etive session
about sixty dsys. Itr sccomplishments inolude the
passage of tweive bills r lating to the Budget, inein-
a
ding the Budget estinate for the fimesl year 193ä-4
8
which has been discuzsed in previous reports , the
supplewentery cl lms for the somr fisesl year, nd
derieleney bi s for ths yer a7 -. trol Lw, the
Farm Domt Bmodjhaseemt bumic iswthehllbes Gpetpel hdy,
ahe steedsbeegartazwintheißxrapmgt(Geatarctin V)).
A bill for the rellef of the vietims of the earth-
quake and tidal weve in Northern Honahu vlll imcrexse
the budget dufleit by bout Ten 1,.
an ioterestisg bill F s on: for the "Preserva-
tlou of Art Tressurea", provicin, for the r gistration
of secondery art tr vasures, vhien vere not covered by
existlng laws, nd the ir chibition of their ex ortation
excopt with the ptrwiasi n of the bepartmeat of Edu a
ticn. That Dep Ptmen: mill soad its gents to ell curio
shupa, solos, prlvale col eetor, et cetere, to make
sure that the bjeate c vered by the law sre prgistered.
The aleged canse of the on se ge of the bill was the
aoquisition by the mnseus of Pine irte in Boston of "The
Serell of Xibi's Aév nturs in China", e J pasese mainting
of the toelfth cautury.
The laws pussed in this sossion of the Diet vill be dis-
eusmed in more detail in ncther re ort from this Eobesay.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
WP
GRAY
Tokyo
FROM
Dated January 23, 1934
Rec'd 5:06 a
Division 
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTE AFFAN
Washington,
JAN 23 1934
894.032/126
Department of State
14, January 23, 4 p. m.
894.032
The Foreign Minister's address before the Diet today
has been telegraphed to the Japanese Embassy in Washington
which will be able to furnish copies to the Department.
GREW
JS
FILED

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
RECEIVED
DIVISION OF FAR EASTER
January 24, 1934.
Mr. Seckotary:
Mr. Phillips:
The copy here attached of
Ir. Hirota's address before the Diet
has been marked so that you may
easily note what seem to be of most
interest to us among the statements
which it contains. I think that you
will find of primary interest the
portions which are underlined in red.
SKH
SKH:EJL

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.93)
女
C A U T I C N
TO BE RELEASED FOR THE MORNING NEWSPAPERS OF TUESDAY,
Diviein of'l
F/ESP
JANUARY 23rd.
TEXT OF THE ADDRESS OF FOREIGN MINISTER KOKI HIROTA BEFORE
THE JAPANESE DIET ON JANUARY 23rd,1934.
894.032/127
The Japanese Government was obliged to serve notice
of withdrawal from the League of Nations on March 27 last year
because the Manchurian incident and questions regarding the
State of Manchoukuo showed that there was no agreement between
Japan and the Leacue on fundamental princinles of preserving
the peace ir East Asie.
At the tine when the decisive step was taken, His
Ma jesty the Emperor raciously issuec a Rescript pointing
cut clcarly and precisely the path this nation should henee-
forth pursue.
It reads:
"Now thet Hanehouku has be n founded, our E ire
deons it essential to respe et the independenoe of the
137
rew Sate and to ene curape its hoalthy developrr rt in
FTLED
(rder that sourees of evil in the Par bast  ay be
J
eradicated und endurine peace pherery established."
Further it reeds:
"However, the advaneement of intornetional peace
711
is whut, as ever more, w de sir, und ur attitud
toward the unt rnrises of penee shal? sustain no chane.
Ey quitsing the Lea ue and embarltine or a cours of its
-7-

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.90)
own our Empire does not mean that it will stand al oof
in the extreme Orient, nor that it will isolate itself
thereby from the fraternity of nations.
"It is our desire to promote mutual confidence
between our Empire and all other Powers, and to make known
the justice of its cause throuhout the world."
I am convinced that if we all unite in our en-
deavcrs to act in accordanc vith the vishes of our August
Sovereign the vorld ill surely come to realize the fair-
ness and justice of Japan's position, and britht vill be
the uture of our Empire.
Personally spe kine, in obedience to the Imperial
message, I am d t rmined to use ovory ounce of my unergy to
"carry out our national policy by diplomatic moans in
intorest of orld peace."
Fortunately todey, art r our vithdrawal from the
Lea u:, come reinl as  11 us diplorntic r lations betveen
Jepan end fri ptly Pooors in gen ral have boeom ev n
closer ond tmore ordi.l thon before. I ish t, vai1 mys if
of this eeeasior to d il som met on recent phases of our
r l tions ith es countrihich re situetd in our
inm di. to nejchborheod.
neh ukue,  nke t  ir beee lebors ot Hi
Exee ney uhu   n, nd of v rnr nt e theriti s, nd
1so te th h rt a srist ne n col tor tion ex-
tended to her y this eontry, tru to th eririt of the
dpn- nehoukuo preer, s  n kine st dy rores
一-

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.96)
along all lines of her constructive work.
In ordering various governmental institutions,
especially in the ma intenance of law and order, in develop-
ments of industry and communication, in consolidation of the
national finance and in the advancement of education and
culture, signal success has been achieved.
Moreover a decision is about to be made on the
establishment of a monarchical regime which has been so
eagerly awaited by all her people, and vhich will go far
to solidify the foundations of Manchoukuo as a young in-
dependent nation.
This is a matter of congratulation not from Man-
choukuo alone, but for the peace of the Orient and the
peace of the world. I think it behooves our Government and
people, always mindful of the Imperial Rescript to exert
their efforts unremittingly in ussisting the henlthy growth
of the new State.
The Japanese Government hos serious responsibilities
for the mainten nce of peace in East Asin and has a firm
resolve in thet regard. But whet is more essentil in the
mattor is the stabilization of China herself.
Our Govornment sincerely hopes for the politicel
ind economic rehabilitation of China. It hopes th:t she will
be enabled to unite with Japan in performing the obvious
mission of both Japan nd China- to contribute through
mutunl oid ond cooperation to peoceful development of thcir
part of the globe.
TTn 
:07
-3…
:n.
f

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.90)
Unfortunately the actual situation of present-day
China belies all such hopes. It has been reported that of
late the Chinese Government, realizing the mistake of per-
sisting in its anti-Japanese attitude hes decided to take
steps looking toward rectifications of Sino-Japanese rcla-
tions, but so far no concrete evidence has come to our
notice to confirm the truth of the report.
Should China appreciate our true motives and give
tangible signs of sincerity on her part, Japan would be glad
to reciprocate  nd mest her more then half way in a spirit
of good will. It is gratifying to note that North Chine,
under control of the Peiping politieal committeu, rem ins
compar tively quiet.
In viw of the importont riehts und interests of
Jrpen in that rurion and of its torritorial contiguity wi th
Monchoukuo, nd Iso from the standpoint of th Tongku
ruce ugre ment, the luestion of w inten nee of peace  nd
Menesce
dorder in Horth China is of speeiel conen rn to Jap n. She x-
36
in m...
b cts chin to so to it th t nothing will h ppen th t may
brin chos te th t r.
Mo nohile y re wotehine, not vithout rav mis-
rivings, th  ctivities of th pormunict P rty und th in-
ere sine rmponey of "Red" rmis in Chin.
R rdin J pen 's reI. tions ith th Sovi t Union
it mey be reeul led th t subseom ntly te th conelusion of the
Peking basie trenty in le2b, norrl contact w s m int ined
betwn the t coun'ries, und thtvn fter the nehu-
-1-

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.91)
rian incident there wes thorough mutual understanding be-
tween the two Powers of their respective positions so that no
difficult question was encountered.
However more recently the attitude of the Soviet
Union toward Japun seems to have undergone a change of some
sort.
It is most surprising und regrettable that the Soviet
Union should now take to broadcasting at home and abroad,
through the press and other channels, unwarranted criticisms
directed against Japan, and circulate exaggerated stories
about aggravations of this or that situation evidently for
political and diplomatic purposes which such rumors are
calculated to serve.
Janan hos consistently preserved her feir ane equit-
able attitude to ard the Soviet Union throu heut the years
past, before an' ufter tt : Manchurian incident. Despite
the funcer ne l diffor nees in both the theory und consti-
tution of the tat thet qivide the tuo countries, we have
alvays endeavor d to ke ep on rood neicht orly t ras "ith
Soviut Russin und soucht the solution of l! uestjons by
racific mns.
Espe cially sine th stublishm nt Inehoukuo,
t Jrunese G v n nt has ben etins s ly upen its con-
"ict ion tht a proper  juet nt of i tri-partite ro tion-
ship tut n da, nehoukue s th Sovi nion e of
p ramount importonee or the tromouility or Eust Asi.
depn curtd nly is s ttine up no  mility ustuhlishr nts
lon   ehou uo-Sovi t tronti rs,  seov prop nd. nt-
一-

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.90)
withstanding.
Indeed, it is only as a part of the a bove mentioned
friendly policy that Japan has undertaken since last Jine
er
to act as an int.nediary between Manchoukuo and the Soviet
Union in their negotiations on the proposed transfer of the
North Manchuria Ruilway. Such being the case, I am sure
that before lon, the Soviet Union must come to appreciate
fully the true intentions of Japan.
It is earnestly hoped that the North Hanchuria
Railway negotiations, which have unfortunately been at a
standstill for some time pust, vill soon be resumed.
It may be definitely stated tht between Japan
und the United Stotes of Americo there exists no que stion
thet is intrinsic lly difficult of solution. For from
having ny thought of picking  querrel with Anerice, Jupan
111
fery ntly desires Anerican friendship. At the seme time
I :m confidont th t tho Unitod St tes will not f: il to
appreise correetly Jup n's positi on in East Asi.
only for a time followin th utbree f the
Mpchuriun ineid nt, publie opinion in A rie  s  r used
pa inst J pn, trinrine sbout som thing like tomper ry
pstr prement or he too po ples. It ie horaly m e so ry
to roitor te ht n istut a y nocther
thn r d sir  stblish nd rin in E st
Ai.
Pheref p ir niy Am riee wil el rly p ive
etulonditionfhCrintnrin's r
-1-

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.93)
a stabilizing force in East Asia, whatever emotional tension
may yet linger between the two peoples is bound to disap-
pear.
I sincerely hope that the two great nations across
the Pacific will, in view of their important relations,
commercial and otherwise, continue to join forces in culti-
vating their historical friendship and good understand ing
so as to keep the ocean forever true to its name.
Japan's traditionel amity with the Eritish Empire
remsins unshaken, even to these times. I believe the two
sea Powers occupying geographically similr key positions,
one in the East and the oth r in the Just, can effectively
serve the cause of universal peace through symp: thetic
appreciation of their respective stands and wholehearted
collabor: tion in all querters of th vorld.
It is in this sunse th't our Gev rnment is seeking
to read just vh tover conflict of inturests reluting to ques-
tions of trode there may be  nd to strunethen further the
ties of friendship th't bind cur Eapires. Th t our nego-
tintions with Indi, an importont member of th British Empir,
over knotty prol lums of corm ree h ve now bon sabstonti lly
onelud d is  s ree or rti ie tion on th sids
Nov a curv y et the  orld as   hole rov  ls a
sorry sitruti n in vhich  node disord r, political unrest
nd confusion nd c nri iet or ia s thr ten te du stroy in-
t rnationel qulibrium at ny mo nt, ii th mutul con-
fid nef n ti ne in  noth r ipre te have ilted
not.lit..
一'一

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.92)
I consider that no insuperable difficulties need
be anticipated in settling any question if the nations mani-
fest their sincerity, and with true comprehension of one
another's position meet in a genuine and generous spirit of
universal brotherhood.
What is wanted is the abandonment of bootless
jealousy and antagonism, and reinforcerent of the sense of
unity and mutual interdependence. However, international
trade harriers, instead of decreasin: are fast multiplying.
The World Economic Conference was forced to ed journ with-
out having achieved desired results.
Of lute our industries have taken marked strides
with correspondin, expansion in our oversen trade, while
owing to the urevailint economic nationalism one country
after another hus le un to set up fre:h obstacles against
the advanee of our oxuert industries. our Government is
waking earnest efforts to deal effectively with the situa-
t.ion.
Sinee mutuel understund ing of one n other 's unique
toti nal cul ture is of no soall valuo in fost rin good wil
betreen nations cur ornr nt is pionnint to tae puitble
woesures in coneert wi h private institutions ror facilitat ine
th etur int reurse  r nat len ith t utside world.
In te Ii ht ot at I bave alr nay stated it is
imposoible rar me te deny tt ur for ign rlutions ure now,
and mila  in rutue, bes t "ith uay uripus probl ms.
.01

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.95)
However the path of a rising nation is always strewn with
problems.
As long as our pe ople are uni ted and well prepared
to face courageously vha tever difficulties may arise, and as
long as we retain our composure and sobriety and "stray not
from the path of rectitude and in action always embrace
the golden mean", I am confident that Japan has nothing to
fear und her future vill be full of hope. We should not
forget that Japan, serving as only the cornerstone for the
edifice of peace of East Asie, bears the entire burden of
rosponsibilities.
It is this imnortant position and these vast ro-
sponsibilities in which Japan's diplomacy una nat ional de-
funce are rooted. Cur national def ne. is orranized in its
vory nature for der nsive und solf-protuctiv purposes. At
the sume time our diplomaey h s no cluits to put forth sove
h t is l gitimat nd rit ional und consonent vith our no-
in1 mission.
That y ntaiiy this position in  hih  rn n tur-
ally und  etu lly rinds lo rselr  ill be ritghtly und rsteed
ry ther pe ors is, I P li ve, for cone cerelusion.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/
894.00 P.R./73
Despatch #636
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Jan.9,1934
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
2
8
REGARDING: Proceeding of the Diet of Japan which was convened on
December 23rd and formally opened by the Emperor.It
adjourned on December 27th until January 22nd.Busi-
ness consisted mainly of replies to the Imperial
Rescript and messages of congratulation to the throne
esp

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.94)
6)
The Openine of the Diete
The sixty-fifth session of the Diet convened on Deeem-
ber 23, on December 26 it was formally opened by the Emperor,
and on December 27 both Houses adjourned until January P£.
Replies tc the Imperial Reseript and messages of congratula-
tion to tre throme oonstituted the rief business enacted
prier to the adjournment for the year-end nolidays. while
there has been cons derable telk of  dissolution of the
Diet since ths ailitary jo: ers sre dissatisfied with the
Government's ability to deal wit: pr sent day conditions, a
drastie ste, of this nature would have to be tasen by the
Enporor
*Sec Telegram No. 191, December £8, 1933.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.90)
-16-
Emperor on the arvice of the Prime Minister. Sueh a
request the Prime Minister will not make until there is
strong evidenee thet the present Government is unable to
osrry out its program, and as neither imp rtant politieal
party would gain by an election at the present time the
current opinion is that p !itical leaders wil  refrain from
foreing such aetion, bowever, when it ves reully settle
own to busines the Diet wil e f cer wit
usny knotty
problems including form relief, tre control of foreign
trade, the budget, and the entire question of the May 15
trials, and the disparity of the sentences imp sed on the
militarists and civilians i volver ther in. A less pressing
watter,but one concerning pnich t ere  teen coslderable
agitatlon of late which is cartmin t ce sired,ts the ques
tin of a eformatio of th ceer  e. Cert in  ers of
the peerage have rec ntly be n ceprived of their titles for
eing implicated in a g mblins scumtal :n tevior vhich
was corsi ered coloterious t the orais f t  atin. The
locI jeurralo hav beer strong in cenoumcin t se Dies
for conduct unrecoxing t t eir usiti r un c rtless edi-
trl ls ve a peured rt t last mont vse ting
2
trarrofrsentste

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 2ê, 1934.
RCM:
Tokyo's despatoh No. 673 of February 10
1934, comments on the proceedings of the
Diet since it reconvened on January 23 after
the New Year holidays. The Embassy promises!
to send separate reports on the various
matters which have been engaging the attentin
of the Diet, but I believe the despatoh would
have been far more helpful if it had pro-
vided a narrative of events.
The despatch is nevertheless an
important one and should be read in full.
The attack in the Diet on the military -
element has apparently been more vigorous and
'extensive than press despatches from Tokyo
have indicated. Mr. Grew states that the
younger officcrs of the Army and Navy "are
indignant over the attitude of the political
parties because of their merciless bombard-
ment of questions dealing with military
matters". (Page 4).
The despatch does not appear to call
for comment or explanation.
That there has been more opposition to
the military than is displayed in the Diet
is

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
is confirmed by the first enclosure, an
editorial from the JAPAN ADVERTISER.
A particularly interesting clipping is
the editorial of the AsAHI (No. 3). which.
while it believes complete confidence is
placed by the people in the Army and Navy.
deplores the efforts of those who "clamor
about the 1935-36 crisis".
One of the most important clippings is
an account of the proceedings in the Diet of
January 26 (No. 6), which nepas a
discussion on naval matters. The Navy
Minister indicated that no deoision had been
reached with regard to the serving of notice
of withdrawal from the Washington and London
Naval Treaties. Sec aloo, No. 32
A clipping from the JAPAN ADVERTISER of
January 31 contains the text of a bill
designed to afford protection against dumping
of foreign wheat in Japan. The statement is
made that the Japanese Government"is watching
with some trepidation the operations of the
wheat export indemnification law recently
passed in the United States".
The account given in Clipping No. 14
of Mr. Yoshizawa's discussion of diplomatic
affairs will repay reading in full. Mr.
Yoshizawa advocates, in view of the naval
policies of the principal countries, that the
forthcoming

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
forthgoming naval conference be abandoned.
After referring to the relations between Japar
and Russia, which he described as giving much
concern in a "third country", Mr. Yoshizawa
expresses the opinion that there are no
serious problems pending between the two
countries. The reply of Mr. Hirota is not
without interest. It indicates that the
Japanese Government will oppose the
disoussion of Far Eastern matters at the
forthcoming naval conference, if held.
Clipping No. 20 disousses the foreign re-
action to Mr. Hirota's annual editorial on
foreign relations. It points out that
Count Uchida's policy was to risk the
national existence rather than abandon
Japan's vital interests in China; that Mr.
Hirota has adopted a new policy designed to
meet existing conditions; and that the
inability of foreign countries to understand
Mr. Hirota's policy may be explained by the
fact that the change has been too abrupt.
The editorial advocates that Japan prooeed
slowly about cooperation with other
countries.
AD: REK

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.95)
E
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OFAMERIGA
Tokyo,ebruary310, 1934.
No. 673.
SUBJECT:
Diet.
FEB2434.
894.032/129
Copy in JE
Divigion of
FAR EASTER
FEB 26 1934
Depertment of clate
894.032
AR 12 1934
THE UNDER SECRETARY
1934
OF STALE
DEPAPIN
The Honorable
COPIES SENT TO
The Secretary of State,
O.N.IIP
Washington.
S i r:
I have the honor to inform the Department that the
65th session of the Diet reconvened on January 23rd. The
Embassy plans, at the close of the present session, to
review in separate despatches various matters which ae
FILED
receiving the Diet's attention. In the meantime the
3
ceedings up to the present writing may be of interest
and are set forth as follows.
As soon as the Diet reconvened after the New Year
holidays

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
holidays it became apparent that this session would
not be a repetition of previous sessions in which the
legislators followed the dictates of the military. On
the contrary, the Government came in for a general at-
tack from individual members of both the Minseito and
Seiyukai, the two major political parties, although
there was no definite attack on the Government by the
parties acting as such.
This attack was directed chiefly against the mili-
tary, and the Government was thereby immediately placed
on the defensive by interpellations in connection with
the huge budget for military purposes, and in general for
the reduction in the budget for farm relief in favor of
the military. The attempt has been made by the speakers
to force the Government to admit that the military has
monopolized the budget to the exclusion of appropriations
for farm relief; so far the Government has avoided a
direct reply to these interpellations, but the implication
of the speeches and re lies indicates a tacit admission
that the military has unduly benefitted. The farm prob-
lem is important partly because of the actual distress
in rural communities, and partly because a large number
of parliamentary members represent the country districts.
Foreign Minister Hirota has won much admiration for
his straightforward and moderate replies to questions con-
cerning foreign relations. It is obvious that his is a
policy of peace.and, as far as possible, conciliation.
In the military budget discussions the question of
the

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
the so-called "crisis" in Japan's foreign relations in
1935-36 has been severely criticized, the opposition
contending that the constant cry of "crisis" is liable
to cause a feeling of unrest among the people, affect
the economic world and bring about disadvantages to
Japan in its diplomatic relations. Mr. Hirota, the
Minister for Foreign Affairs, in replying to these
statements said that the talk of a "crisis" in 1935- 36
is regrettable as it invites the contempt of foreign
countries and that he believes Japan should be calm and
take steps to bring about smooth and satisfactory inter-
national relations. This statement is in line with Mr.
Hirota's announced policy to improve Japan's relations
with foreign countries through diplomatic channels.
The attitude of Japan at the forthcoming Naval Con-
ference in 1935-36 was also the subject of questions. In
the course of interpellations on this subject, the Govern-
ment stated that Japan's policy toward this conference
is still in the process of formation. The Foreign Minis-
ter, however, stated that he regards the present naval
ratios as being unsatisfactory and Admiral Osumi, the
Navy Minister, was induced by interpellation to reiterate
the Navy's intention of demanding a change in the present
naval ratios.
These attacks on the military apparently caught them
unaware, because it took them several days to prepare a
general counter-attack. This counter-attack was led by
Admiral Osumi, the Navy Minister, who in a statement in
the

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
the Diet said that the Navy was guiltless of any disad-
vantages Japan may suffer under the 5-5-3 ratio of the
London Naval Treaty, implying under interrogation that
the Minseito was responsible for the pact. He likewise
said that continued inquisitiveness in the Diet on
naval matters would bring disclosures from the military
side concerning the charge that a movement was under way
to alienate the civilian and military populations, and
that such disclosures would make matters extremely un-
comfortable for the Minseito leaders. Regardless of
this threat the Minseito and Seiyukai continued their in-
terpellations on military matters.
The younger elements of the Army and Navy are in-
dignant over the attitude of the political parties be-
cause of their merciless bombardment of questions dealing
with military matters. They have held several meetings
urging that a firm stand be taken by the higher authori-
ties. Whether they will take further action, and in what
form, remains to be seen.
In regard to the finances of Japan, Mr. Takahashi,
the Finance Minister, stated in the Diet that Japan is in
no hurry to revalue the yen, but that Japan intends to
await the practical stabilization of both the pound and
the dollar before action is taken. He stated that the
Government does not intend to move hastily in the matter
because the United States or Great Britain might modify
its attitude on the currency and this would leave Japan
with

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
with a currency too strong to compete in foreign fields.
On the question of taxation Minister Takahashi stated
that the time is not ripe for increasing taxes. It is
generally admitted that the farmers, who are the largest
tax-payers in Japan, are now being taxed to the limit
and that to further increase their taxes at the present
time would only invite trouble from the rural districts.
The interpellations on the Government's bill for
amalgamating the steel industry of Japan into one Govern-
ment-controlled concern is believed to have caused the
resignation of Baron Nakajima, the Minister of Commerce
and Industry, it being alleged that he is closely connect-
ed with the steel interests.
Not since September 193l have members of the Diet
dared to attack the military as is being done in the pre-
sent session, and this attack is characterized by the
close cooperation between the two major political parties
as their interpellations have followed along the same
general lines as if by concerted action. At the same time
the Ministers of State have made much less evasive replies
to the interpellations than they have in any other recent
session.
The foregoing report is not intended to convey the
impression that the present Government is in danger or
that the budget as prepared will not be voted. It merely
indicates that members of the Diet have seized this op-
portunity to air their views and grievances with a frank-
ness and freedom which they have not dared or seen fit
to

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
to exerise since the Manchurian incident of 1931.
11.
There are transmitted herewith clippings selected
from local English language newspapers in regard to the
proceedings in the Diet now in session. Clippings in
connection with the Diet have been omitted from the usual
clippings submitted bi-weekly.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1. Clippings.
803.
JCG/WTT/MNH:g

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
Fnclosure No 
to despa ch
Nn 673 01 2 10,1924.
Erbassy at Toks.
The Japan Advertiser
Tokyo, Friday, January z6, 1934.
While Count Futaara was address-
The Diet Awakens
ing the Upper House on Tuesday,
Mr. Tokonami, prominent Seiyukai
The attitude of the Diet in the first
leader, was speaking in the Lower
House urging the political parties to
few days after it has got down to
unite and support the government.
real business, has come as something
His speech has been regarded as of
of a surprise to those who believed
particular political significance in
this session would witness a mere
view of the various movements at-
tempted before the Diet to bring the
repetition of the docile attitude of
parties together. There will prob-
legislators in recent sessions. Judg-
ably not result any merger of the
ing from this initial showing, the
parties but if his speech gives im-
political parties seem to have taken
petus to a certain amount of coopera-
on new life and to be working not
tion between the parties it will have
so much for their self-preservation
accomplished much.
this time as for their rehabilitation
The interpellations of Mr. Chuji
in the public esteem.
Machida, a leading member of the
No sooner had the Government
Minseito, and of Mr. Masazumi Ando,
spokesmen—Premier' Saito, Foreign
of the Seiyukai, in the Lower House
Minister Hirota, and Finance Min-
on Wednesday, very clearly indicated
ister Takahashi — delivered their
the trend of the session. Mr. Machida
formal addresses to the Diet on
declared that the constant cry of
Tuesday, than the parties opened up
"crisis" raised in connection with
their activities. The bulk of the in-
Japan's foreign relations in 1935-36,
terpellations so far has been directed
"is liable to cause a feeling of unrest
at the military, that is to say that
among the people, affect the economic
they have ventured on ground on
world and bring about some disad-
which they had not dared to tread
vantages to this country in its diplo-
in previous sessions.
matic relations." This statement
Perhaps the most significant feature
elicited the reply from Foreign Min-
of the parliamentary debate to date,
ister Hirota that "this talk of crisis
has been the degree of cooperation
in 1935-36 is regrettable as it invites
evident between the Seiyukai and
the contempt of foreign countries."
the Minseito, the two major political
Mr. Hirota added that he believed
parties and hitherto the two major
Japan should be "calm and take steps
adversaries. Interpellators of both
to bring about smooth and satisfac-
parties have followed much the same
tory international relations."
line as if almost by concerted action.
Mr. Ando was even more outspoken
The parties which have been so fre-
than Mr. Machida. He is reported
quently urged of late to get together
to have declared that since the May
for the sake of national unity, ap-
fifteenth affair the public has sus-
pear to be combining forces for their
pected that the military men were
own welfare in the cause of con-
interfering in political affairs and
stitutionalism and party government.
that the people were beginning to
It happens too that such cooperation
ask whether a dictatorship was im-
will benefit the government so long
: minent. The talk of crisis in 1935-
as the parties support it, and there
36, he said, was increasing public
is no inclination at present to do
unrest. He called upon the military
anything else.
authorities to explain the reasons for
Count Futaara, a former member
the issuance of a joint army and
of the Imperial Household, was the
navy statement before the meeting of
first to be heard from with an inter-
the Diet last month, warning agains
pellation in the Upper House. He
a split between the military and
denounced the publication of books
civilian population. His interpella-
and articles recklessly advocating na-
tion led to a secret session when the
tional defense and war. He declared
Navy Minister became the target of
that the Japanese spirit of today was
interpellators.
rot the true Japanese spirit which
All this goes to show that while
is "to win without fighting."
party polities may have fallen low in
That his speech was effective is
the public esteem, particularly at a
shown by the fact that Government
time when nationalism was most in-
authorities immediately took steps to
tensified, the legislature has not ab-
ban the publication in future of
dicated its prerogatives to anyone.
hypothetical war stories. The For-
The Diet never enjoyed much power
cign Office spokesman made it known
in this country and its power was
on Wednesday that measures were
often misused, but it clings to its
being taken to prevent the publica-
rights and there are chances that the
tion of another war story of the type
parties may live to stage a come-
which has created so much alarm
back.
abroad recently.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
2
The Japan Advertiser
Tokyo, Friday, January z6, 1934.
ser
ACCURATE
and
IMPARTIAL
in News
Price 15 Sen
JAPAN FORMULATING
Diet Speaker
ARMS TREATY PLANS,
OSUMI INFORMS DIET
Lower House Member Asks
Whether Government Planning
Revision or Abolition
WAREHOUSE BILL ENTERED
Military Discipline, Thought
Problem, Soviet Forces in
East, are Discussed
BUDGET COMES UP TODAY
Japan's fundamental policy toward
the 1935 Washington naval conference
is still in process of formation. Navy
Minister Mineo Osumi said yesterday
in replying to an interpellation in the
S
Lower House of the Diet from Mr.
Saburo Yasumi Minseito member and
a rear-admiral on the reserve list,
who wanted to know whether the Gov.
ty
crnment intends to revise or abolish
the London Naval Treaty.
Mr. Yasumi referred to the invest-
ment of American capital in Chinese
aviation. to Soviet military forces in
the Far East and to what he called "a
D
movement intended to estrange the
people at large from the navy and
o
army.
Mr. Gotaro Ogawa of the Minseito
brought up the question of military
discin line in connection with the
politico-military assassinations of 1932.
y
and was assured by Navy Minister
ni
Osumi and the new War Minister.
d
General Senjuro Hayashi, that strict
22
control of actions violating the army
h
and navy criminal codes would be en-
in
forced.
i-
In the House of Peers the day was
ie
devoted largely to interpellations of
al
the Government by Dr. Aikitsu Tana-
kadate on the thought problem. The
le
Agriculture Minister. Mr. Fumio Go-
h
to. replied to questions on the pro-
posed revision of the agricultural
warehouse law. a bill for which was
introduced.
"I wish to express my appreciation
of the fact that the second naval rep-
lenishment program has greatly added
to the feeling of security of the na-

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Gotaro Ogawa of the Minselto
brought up the question of military
discip line in connection with the
politico-military assassinations of 1932,
and was assured by Navy Minister
Osumi and the new War Minister,
d
General Senjuro Hayashi, that strict
control of actions violating the army
and navy criminal codes would be en-
forced.
In the House of Pears the dar was
devoted largely to intesp
the Government by Dr.
kadate on 'the thought pro
de
Agriculture Minister, Mr. Fuilò Gq-
to, replied to questions on the pro-
posed revision of the agricultural
warehouse law, a bill for which was
introduced.
"I wish to express my appreciation
of the fact that the second raval rep-
lenishment program has greatly added
to the feeling of security of the na-
tional defence," "The fundamenta!
question, however, lies in a revision
or abolition of the London Naval
Treaty. Judging by the outcome of
this treaty, it is clear that reduction
of armaments merely for the purpose
of saving expenses will reduce the feel-
ing of security, which in turn will
bring about larger military expenses.
"Armaments incapable of making
the people feel the security of national
defence are not real national defence
forces. In view of this fact, it is ab-
solutely necessary to definitely estab-
lish our fundamental policy toward the
naval conference scheduled to be held
at Washington next year in order to
make the national defence secure. The
Government is requested to clarify its
views of its situation.
Wants Measures Taken
"Is there nothing to be desired in
naval armaments in view of the pres-
ent relations between this country and
its neighbors? I consider it necessary
for the naval authorities to take ade-
quate measures to cope with the sit-
uation arising from the changed condi-
tions of the Soviet forces in the East,
coupled with the air force program of
t
the Nanking Government. I feel this
n
necessity due to the fact that Japan is
d
responsible for the peace in Eastern
Asia. What is the attitude of the naval
n
authorities toward this question?
N
Continuing his interpellation, Mr. Ya-
11
sumi dealt with the report of "a move-
ment intended to estrange the people
at large from the navy and army."
1
The interpellator declared that the
spirit of Japan. existing since the
y
founding of the State, would not tole-
1-
rate the idea of estranging the civi-
:t
lian population from the military.
"There are signs of the military being
separated from the civilian population."
the interpellator went on, "by not al-
lowing discussions of any military af-
fairs. Such a thing is to be regretted
to a large extent. I wish to know the
views of the Minister of the Navy in
this connection.
Minister Makes Reply
In reply. Minister Osumi said that
measures to deal with the next naval
conference are still being studied care-
fully. Realization of the Japanese pro-
posals. presented in 1932 to the general
disarmament conference convened under
the auspices of the League of Nations,
would increase the feeling of security
mong the people, the Minister declar-
ed. adding that it is still undecided,
however. whether the ptroposals will
be maintained in the future or not.
With reference to the changed con-
(itions of the Soviet forces in the East
and the air force program of the Chi-
nese Government at Nanking, Minister
Osumi told his interpellator that the
Navy Office is studying the questions
together with the War Office. The
Navy Minister concluded his reply by
declaring that he has always endeavor-
ed to save the naval expenses as much
as possible.
The next to reply to Mr. Yasumi's
interpellation was Mr. Koki Hirota,
Minister of Foreign Affairs, who said
that the Foreign Office is constantly
co-operating with the Navy Office and
the War Office in the watch for any
treaty-violating activity against the

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
3
The Asahi-
Translted by the Japan Advertiser,
Tokyo, Friday, January z6, 1934.
War Talk Becomes Issue
ASAHI
We have no doubts about the motives
The other day the New York Even-
actuating those who clamor about the
ing Post administered a rebuke to the
1935-36 crisis. They want to improve
Hearst newspapers for the tirades
the morale of the people, prevent for-
against Japan which had appeared in
eign countries from looking on Japan
their columns. The New York paper
with contempt and put the national
said: "Jingoists in Japan and the
foundation on a secure basis, but their
United States are busy. Those in
conduct, unfortunately. is having a re-
Japan are raising the American bogey.
sult quite the opposite of that desired
by them.
The Japanese bogey is being raised in
The statements issued by the army
America. This reminds us of the
and the navy last December about the
conditions which prevailed preceding
alienation of the people from the mili-
the World War."
tary were a shock to the people at
It was the saune question of distrust
large. Intelligent people were worried
between nations which Count Yoshi-
by the passage in the statement to the
nori Futaara attempted to raise in the
effect that there were not a few who
course of his interpellation of th
would alienate the sympathy of the
Government in the Upper House ai
people from the army and the navy in
the re-opening of the Diet session on
connection with the budget and mat-
Tuesday.
ters related to it. At no time has the
Mr. Masazumi Ando. a member of
confidence of the people in the military
been greater than at present. There is
the Seiyukai, in his interrogation of
no danger of the close relations
the Government in the Lower House
between the civilian and military
yesterday, touched on the same ques-
populations suffering, unless the mili-
tion. He mentioned the statements
tary goes to the bad. The people are
issued by the army and the navy late
so confident of the military that they
last year in connection with the alleged
will not allow their attitude to be
attempts of certain persons to separate
changed by anti-war literature.
the civilian and military populations.
Any misunderstanding which may
The introduction of the matter of the
have been created by the statements
military statements was the cceasion
of the army and the navy at home and
for a disturbance on the floor of the
abroad will be dissipated by the as-
Lower House.
surance given by Navy Minister Osumi
There was nothing strange about tak-
in the Diet. That the statements were
ing up the statements of the army and
suggested by the army admits of no
the navy in his interpellations on Gov-
doubt. It is unfortunate that we can-
crnment policies. Talk of the 1935-36
rot hear cxplanations from General
crisis is heard on every hand. The
Araki, who is supi bsed to have known
budget for the next fiscal year was
the cireumstances which led to the
compiled with an eye on the crisis.
issuance of the statements.
One cannot discuss the budget intel-
ligently without re'erence to the atti-
tude of the military.
As Mr. Ando pointed out, there is
increased unrest in the public mind in
proportion to an inereased clamor about
a crisis. Mr. Koki Hirota. the Foreign
Minister. would diseourag, those who
talk of a crisis. In replying to Mr.
Ando's question, the Minister said: "It
is possible to regard the situation which
will confront Japan in 1935 and 1936
in the light of a crisis but I do not
like the people indulge in talk of a
crisis. Such talk hurts the national
spirit and invites foreign countries to
regard Japan with contempt."
As a matter of fact, the elements in
China which are not friendly toward
Japan are consoling themselves by the
thought that two or three years hence
Japan will be faced by a crisis in its
international relations. But they are
not only people who are pleased with
the talk of a crisis in Japan. Ship
builders in the United States are hon-
oring the crisis mongers, and they have
reasons for doing do.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advertiser.
Toxyo, Saturday, January 27, 1934.
"At any rate," said the Jiji, "the
ARMY, NAVY ANGERED
military apparently is preparing for
a clash with the political parties."
Young officers of the army and
BY ATTACKS IN DIET
navy, said the newspaper, are indig-
nant over the attitude of the politioal
parties and are urging that a firmer
stand be taken by the high authori-
ties. The Jiji summarized the attitude
Vigorous Parliamentary Coun-
of the younger element as follows:
"It is the political parties, not the
ter-Offensive Planned Unless
military establishment, that should be
criticized for anti-national and trai-
Interpellation Ceases
torous activities. They are more than
arrogant in forgetting their own mis-
deeds and occurrying themselves with
YOUNG OFFICERS AROUSED
attacks on the military. The mere
fact that the question has arisen in
the Diet in the face of the impending
Seiyukai and Minseito May Be
national crisis is an anti-national deed.
The military should not hesitate to
Accused of Anti-Nationalism
adopt a firmer attitude in the matter."
Before Row Dies Down
The Miyako said the Ministers of
War and Navy are awaiting develop-
ments. determined not to take an ag-
Vernacular press reports yesterday
gressive attitude unless the political
indicated that the army and navy.
parties continue their attacks.
startled and angered by vigorous in-
tcrpellation in the Diet Thursday from
members of both the Seiyukai and the
Minseito, were preparing a vigorous
parliamentary counter-offensive, in
which the two parties may be accused
of acts inimical to the national wel-
fare.
The Jiji yesterday said that when
Mr. Gotaro Ogawa of the Minseito con-
tinued attacks on military policy Thurs-
day. he apparently had the support
of both parties and that for a time it
appeared that the Diet was a session
of a debating society with the army
and navy on the losing side. The Min-
isters of War and Navy. questioned as
to military discipline and policies re-
lating to coming armament treaty re-
visions. returned no definite answ: rs.
but. the Jiji said, military authorities
as a whole believe the replies were
"more than sufficient" at the present
stage of developments.
"If the political parties continue their 
challenging attitude, the military au-
thorities will not hesitate to adopt a
firm attitude of rebuke." the Jiji said.
"In that connection. authorities of the
Military Affairs Bureau were instructed
Thursday to prepare all necessary ma-
terial.
The newspaper continued that the
army and navy may issue statements
clarifying their attitude. similar to
those published when the draft bud-
get was under debate in the Cabinet
last fall. or may publish all details
in connection with reports that at-
tempts are being made to alienate the
civilian population from the army and
navy. All depends. it was stated. on
the future attitude of the political
parties, but it was added that the
military is prepared to point out vari.
ous instances of anti-nationalism on
the part of the the Seiyukai and the
Minseito.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
5
The Japan Aavertiser
Tokyo, Saturday, Jamary 27, 1934.
ACCURATE
and
IMPARTIAL
in News
Price 15 Sen
DIET HEARS CHARGE
PLEDGE OF ECONOMY
IN ARMS IS VIOLATED
Saito Accused on Floor of Lower
House of Breaking Promise
on Navy Budget
MILITARY IS UNDER FIRE
Premier Replies that Interna-
tional Relations Have Changed
Since Last Diet
SECRET SESSION IS HELD
Insistent in his questions as to why
the Government's previous assurances
against increased military expenses have
not been realized for the coming fiscal
year. Mr. Shinya Uchida of the Seiyu-
kai yesterday in the Diet launched a
keen interpellation on national defense
matters, eliciting numerous replies from
Premier Saito and Navy Minister Mi-
neo Osumi. and finally bringing about
a half-hour session in camera to enable
Admiral Osumi to answer queries in-
volving naval secrets.
Premier Saito. according to Nippon
Dempo. was accused by Mr. Uchida of
"deceiving the people at the last Diet
session by telling them that military
expenses would not increase, while he
was aware of the navy's intention to
formulate the second replenishment
program." The Premier replied that
the world situation had changed.
During the course of an extremely
lively day of question and answer, For-
eign Minister Koki Hirota divulged that
the Soviet Government had expressed
regret over the recent "disclosure" of
"secret documents" tending to reveal a
Japanese plan to seize the Chinese East-
ern Railway by force.
Osumi Can't Reply
The session went into camera after
an especially brisk exchange between
Mr. Uchida and Navy Minister Osumi.
Quoting the Navy Minister to the ef-
fect that appropriations allowed in the
new draft budget for the second re-
plenishment program are not sufficient.
the interpellator asked just how much
would be needed. The Navy Minister
replied that the navy. of course, had
its estirnates, but that he was unable
to reveal them pending the conclusion
of present negotiations between the
Navy Office and the Finance Office.
Dissatisfied with the reply. Mr. Uchi-
da reauested the session iu camera

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
During the course of an extremely
lively day of question and answer, For-
eign Minister Koki Hirota divulged that
the Soviet Government had expressed
regret over the recent "disclosure" of
"secret documents" tending to reveal a
Japanese plan to seize the Chinese East-
ern Railway by force.
Osumi Can't Reply
The session went into camera after
an especially brisk exchange between
Mr. Uchida and Navy Minister Osumi.
Quoting the Navy Minister to the ef-
fect that appropriations allowed in the
new draft budget for the second re-
plenishment program are not sufficient,
the interpallator asked just how much
would be needed. The Navy Minister
replied that the navy, of course, had
its estimatos, but that he was unable
to reveal them pending the oonclusion
of present negdtiations between the
Navy Office and the Finance Office.
Dissatisfied with the reply, Mr. Uchi-
da requested the session in camera.
It was the second day on which the
Government has been roundly interro-
gated on military matters by members
of the Seiyukai and the Minseito, a
circumstance which is said to have
aroused the quick resentment of the
military element, causing preparations
for a counter-attack in the Diet if the
civilians continue their line of ques-
tioning.
The House of Peers was adjourned
yesterday so that its members might
attend the Lower House's first session
on the budget. Government bills for
general and special appropriations for
the 1934-35 fiscal year and the measure
providing for expenses not included in
the Cabinet draft budget being pre-
sented. Mr. Masataka Ota of the Sei-
yukai, Mr. Mitsugu Tanaka of the
Minseito and Mr. Hikosaburo Kurihara
of the Kokumin-Domei made formal
requests that the Government submit
data for reference, then Mr. Uchida be-
gan the naval interrogation that was to
consume most of the session.
Conditions Change
"At the previous session of the
Diet." the interpellator began, "the
Premier declared that expenditures for
military preparations would not be in-
creased in the future, but the budget
for the next fiscal year shows that
expenditures of the army and navy are
to be increased by 90.000.000. What
is the reason?"
"The developing situation forced a
change in plans," Premier Saito re-
plied. "Military expenditures must be
increased to cope with new interna-
tional situation. The change in the
situation could not be foreseen at the
time of the previous Diet session."
Thereafter question and answer, ac-
cording to Rengo's translation. ran as
follows:
Mr. Uchida: The Premier stated at
the opening of this plenary session of
the Diet that Japan's friendly rela-
tions with the Powers had increased.
and was continuing to increase. I
would like comment now on that
statement.
The Premier: Our relations with
the Powers are improving. but nation-
al defense is not based entirely on
discord with the Powers. It should
be carried out after taking the de-
fense programs of the various Powers
into consideration.
Mr. Uchida: Was the second naval
replenishment plan anticipated when
the first replenishment plan was
drafted?
Navy Minister Osumi: The second
replenishment plan is almost the same
as the program considered when the
first plan was formulated, but in some
respects it differs.
Mr. Uchida: According to the Navy
Minister. the second supplementary
plan was considered together with the
first. In that case. the second plan
should have been decided when the
budget for the previous fiseal year was
formed.
The Premier: It might have been
considered by the navy. but the Gov-
ernment had no knowledge of it.
Mr. Uchida: The fact that military
expenditures increased in spite of the

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.98)
#6
The Japan Advertiser,
Tokyo, Saturday, January z7, 1934.
vrtiser
ACCURATE
and
IMPARTIAL
in News
(10 Pages Today)
Price 15 Sen
ROOSEVELT CHOOSES
REPLY OF MILITARY
American Producers
Of Cotton Rugs Hit by
EXPERTS TO ASSIST
TO ATTACKS IN DIET
Japanese I m p or t s
WITH STABILIZATION
Nippon Dempo-United Press
LAUNCHED BY OSUMI
WASHINGTON, January 26.—The
Tariff Commission is preparing a re-
port for submission to President
Roosevelt following a demand made
by cotton-rug producers for protec-
Navy Minister Implies Minseito
tion against imports from Japan,
which, it is alleged, are crippling
Wholly Responsible for Lon-
American manufacturers.
don Naval Treaty
SENATE GETS BILL
3
REVELATIONS THREATENED
FOR TREATY NAVY
Promise Is Made that Party
t
Responsibility for Internal Sit-
Trammell Asks for Replacement
uation Will Be Fixed
of Over-Age Ships and Full
MANCHUKUO COSTS ASKED
S
Airplane Complement
BIG CARRIER IS PROVIDED
The military establishment of Japan
e
began shooting back yesterday at eivi-
lian partisan interpellators in the Diet
Henry Roosevelt Speaks in
who have been subjecting the War and
0
Favor of Fleet Inferior to
Navy Ministries to a merciless bom-
bardment of questions since the se-
e
That of No Other
sion resum:d last Tuesday.
it
Declaring that the navy itself was
Nippon Dempo-United Press
entirely guiltless of occasioning any
it
WASHINGTON. January 28.—Senator
disadvantage Japan may suffer under
Park Trammell, Florida Democrat and
the 5-5-3 ratio of the London Naval
e
committee, today introduced ,in the
chairman of the Senate naval affairs
Treaty. War Minister Mineo Osumi
f
Senate a bill. corresponding to that
implied under interrogation that the
pending in the House of Representa-
Minseito was responsible for the pact
tives. permitting the President to build
and warned Minseito members of the
the United States fleet up to London
Diet that continued inquisitiveness as
1
n
treaty strength.
The bill provides for replacing over-
to naval matters would bring disclo-
a
age submarines and other outmoded
sures from the military side concerning
vessels and for the construction of a
the current charge that movement is
full complement of modern naval
under way to alienate the civilian and
planes.
military populations-and such dis-
It specifically provides for building
closures. the Navy Minister emphasiz-
s
a 15,000-ton aircraft carrier to replace
ed in a surprisingly candid speech,
the old Langley, the United Statcs
v'ould make matters "extremely un-
navy's first airplane carrier.
comfortable" for the Minseito leader-
The House is scheduled to consider
ship.
s
its measure. the Vinson bill. on Mon-
Rengo's account of the Navy Min-
e
day.
ister's declaration recalled that recent
e
The Acting Secretary of the Navy.
orders have transferred to comparative
Henry L. Roosevelt, reiterated the Ad-
obscurity high navy officers who ap-
ministration's policy that an adequate
proved the London Navy Treaty, and
navy is the best guarantee of peace in
have placed in commanding positions
an address today to the Women's pat-
any officers who opposed the pact. The
riotic conference. He said that he ap-
Navy Minister's statement, placing en-
proved of the present building pro-
tire responsibility for Japan's inferior
gram, not because he wanted war but
naval position on the Minseito Cabinet
because he did not want it.
of Premier Yuko Hamaguchi. is said
to have been planned at the time the
Wants Navy Second to None
switches in high naval personnel were
Rengo
first decided. Rengo's account said 
WASHINGTON. January 26.—Asscrt-
demands of navy officers foreed A
Ing that a second-best navy is worth
miral Osumi to make the direct char
nothing, since there is no such thing
that the Minseito was responsible for
as a second-best winner of a war. Act-

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
the old Langley, the United States
v'ould make matters
navy's first airplane carrier.
comfortable" for the Minseito
The House is scheduled to consider
chip.
its measure, the Vinson bill, on Mon-
Rengo's account of the Navy Mi
day.
ister's declaration recalled that 
The Acting Secretary of the Navy,
orders have transferred to com
Henry L. Roosevelt, reiterated the Ad-
ministration's policy that an adequate
navy is the best guarantee of peace in
have placed in commanding posk
an address today to the Women's pat-
riotic conference. He said that he ap-
proved of the present building pro-
gram, not because he wanted war but
bessuse'he did not want it.
Wants Navy Secead to None
to have been planned at the time the
switches in high naval personnel wese
Rengo
WASHINGTON. January 26.-Assert-
frst dectded. Remgora account maid
ing that a second-best navy is worth
demands of navy officers foroed -
nothing, since there is no such thing
miral Osumi to make the direct charge
that the Minseito was responsible for
as a second-best winner of a war, Act-
ing Secretary of the Navy Henry L.
the treaty and to hint at sensational
disclosures unless Minseito Dist mem-
Roosevelt today made an urgent plea
in favor of a fleet built up to the maxi-
bers discontinued their attacks.
mum treaty allowance and which will
Regardless of the Navy Minister's
Questions Continued
be inferior to that of no other country.
threat, members of the Minseito as well
said Mr. Roosevelt, is to keep the sea
The principal mission of the navy.
sition yesterday into the Government
as the Seiyukai continued their inqui-
lanes open in time of war regardlcss
military policies, questions late in the
of whether we are neutrals or bellige-
afternoon session seeking to learn the
rents."
amount of money Japan has spent so
far in Manchurian military operations.
FRENCH FIRMS IN AMERICA
The new Minister of War, General
MAY PAY PENALTY TAXES
Senjuro Hayashi, replying to the inter
rogation of Mr. Koku Kawasaki of the
Minseito, was said by Rengo to have
claimed a decrease in the number of
House Committee Favors Meas-
bullets expended in Manchukuo due to
ure to Retaliate Against Dis-
the success of anti-bandit operations.
When the hilarity occasioned by that
criminating Countries
remark had died, War Minister Hayashi
was questioned directly as to when the
expense of the Manchurian Incident
Nippon Dempo-United Press
would end, but the General said he was
WASHINGTON. January 26.—The
unable to give a definite reply.
House ways and means committee to-
"What is the present situation in
day reported favorably on a proposal
Manchukuo as to public order and
to incorporate in the Administration's
peace under the Japan-Manchukuo Pro-
tax revision bill an amendment pro-
tocol?" asked Mr. Kawasaki.
viding for penalty taxes against cer-
General Hayashi replied
briefly,
tain foreign firms with branches in the
"Conditions are satisfactory."
United States. The penalties would be
Then, responding to questions from
imposed on concerns whose home gov-
Mr. Kawasaki, the War Minister re-
ernments imposed discriminatory taxes
vealed that his office plans a general
against American citizens or corpora-
expenditure of ¥120,000,000 in the im-
tions.
provement of the military establish-
The discretion of determining the
ment in 1934. and an expenditure of
firms to be thus penalized would rest
110.000,000 in 1935. The sum so far
with the President.
fixed for 1936 is ¥17,000,000, he said.
Representative Fred M. Vinson. of
Ratio to Be Changed
Kentucky, who supported the measure.
Navy Minister Osumi's charge of
said that it was aimed at France.
Minseito responsibility for the London
Navy Treaty was brought on by
TEACHERS HELD AS REDS
queries from Mr. Shinya Uchida of the
Seiyukai. who had spent the previous
day in inquiring as to naval expendi-
Two of 24 Arrested in Fukuoka Pre-
tures, some of his questions necessitat-
fecture Are Held for Trial
ing answers in camera. Mr. Uchida
yesterday said he believed the London
Naval Treaty to be the entire cause of
hibition. announcement was made at
With the lifting of a censorship pro-
Japan's present "extraordinary situa-
e
Fukuoka. yesterday. according to
Rengo. of the indictment of two pri-
tion" in international relations. The
Navy Minister said he did not consider
mary school teachers. Jin Inenaga. 23
the London pact the scle cause of
and Toyoo Yasutake. 24, on charges
Japan's present uneasiness, but that it
of teaching radical doctrine in their
could be regarded as one of numerous
classes. The two accused were among
causes.
24 primary school teachers in Fukuoka
"Who." asked Mr. Uchida. "is respon-
Prefecture who were arrested in a
sible for the May 15 incident, which
series of raids late last August. The
consequently made the political parties
other 22 suspects were either exonerat-
the target of criticism?"
ed as a result of police examination or
The Navy Minister avoided the direct
were released with warnings.
question. replying. "I do not think
that the political party to which Mr.
-Kaiser Left Undrunk
Uchida belongs is responsible for the
London Naval Treaty."
rash Time-Honored Rite
Replying to a question put by Mr.
Seinen Takagi of the Minseito, Foreign
Minister Koki Hirota said he regards
the officers rose from their seats just
the present naval ratio as being un-
at the stroke of 12 to drink a toast to
satisfactory. and before the meeting
the ex-Kaiser's health in accordance
adjourned Navy Minister Osumi was
with custom, the police suddenly burst
induced by interpellation to reiterate
into the room, crying "hands up." and
the navy's intention of demanding a
ordered the celebrators to return to
change in the present naval ratio..
their homes.
Debate Is Sharp
The officers, many of whom were
Rengo's translation of the debate be-
wearing resplendent uniforms of the
tween Mr. Uchida and Navy Minister
Imperial regime, sadly put down their
Osumi follows:
glasses and disbanded. leaving the
Mr. Uchida: The Japanese disarma-
e
toast unhonored.
ment proposal presented to the Geneva
a
The ceremony in previous years had
Disarmament Conference in December
heen allowed to take place without
of 1932 says it is proper one to replace
interruption.
the Washington and London Disarma-

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advertiser
Tolyo, Sunday, January 28, 1934.
JAPAN IS IN NO HURRY
The market interprets this to mean
that the Government will pay equit-
able prices for the newly-mined gold
produced in the Empire, instead of the
TO REVALUE THE YEN
present ridiculously low quotation of
¥9.94 per momme, when the world
market is more than 30 per cent high-
cr. Gold mining companies in Japan
have been refusing to sell their gold to
Takahashi Says Nation Must
the Government, preferring to borrow
oh it and await a better bargain.
Wait Until Britain and America
Speaking on the revaluation of the
yun. Mr. Takahashi told Dr. Ogawa
Have Taken Action
that Japun has no idea of devaluing
the yen in order to raise prices of
domestic goods artificially. The un-
GOLD PLANS DRAWN UP
derlying idea is that country would
like to perform the operation when the
Anglo-American and other exchange
Nation Intends to Buy Y300,-
rates spontaneously achieve an equilib-
000,000 Worth of Newly-Mined
rium. At that time Japan will be able
to lift its gold embargo and clarity
Gold in Next Three Years
Its position. Mr. Takahashi's statement
is translated from a shorthand report
taken in the Imperial Diet:
Japan's policy with respect to re-es-
Takahashi Talks
tablishment of the gold standard on
"The devaluation of the yen has been
the basis of a lower official gold con-
discussed for some time, probably ever
tent for the yen remains indefinite.
since Japan went off gold. But we
Finance Minister Korekiyo Takahashi
must study carefully the basis and ob-
told Dr. Gotaro Ogawa. member of the
jqct of yen devaluation. The subject
Minseito and former Parliamentary
is best discussed only when circum-
Vice-Minister of Finance under the
stances force Japan to take the step.
late Junnosuke Inouye. in the Diet
We must consider then whether to re-
Thursday. Japan intends to await pra-
vlue the yen on a dollar or sterling
ctical stabilization of both pound and
basis. Even though Japan should re-
dollar. It does not intend to move
value the yen today on the basis of the
hastily. for cither the United States
dollar. there would be no certitude
or Great Britain might modify its at-
that the United States would not cut
titude and leave Japan with a currency
the value of the dollar once more.
worth too much to leave this country
Therefore. even that step would not
definitely competitive in foreign fields.
stabilize the yen. In short, we must
However. policies with regard to the
wait until the situation develops in
acquisition of newly-mined gold by the
such a way that the yen can be de-
Bank of Japan are being whipped into
valued, when we shall be able to make
shape and are expected to be sanetion-
a clear explanation of our policy to
ed by the current session of the Im-
the nation."
perial Diet. The Financial Affairs
Answering another question by Dr.
Ogawa on the policy with respeet to
Bureau of the Finance Bureau has
drafted a tentative plan. This provides
mined gold. Mr. Takahashi said:
"From the viewpoint of Japan's in-
that:
1. The Government shall buy newly-
ternational trade position for 1932 and
mined gold. commeneing with the next
1933. we can see that there should be
fiseal year. at the rate of Y100,000,000
no need for this Government to ex-
port gold to settle foreign accounts.
a year for the next three years.
It is difficult to predict what will be-
Would Issue Bonds
come of this year's foreign trade, but
2. The Government shall issu, bonds
if the situation remains as favorable
to finance the purchases.
as it has been for two years. there
3. The purchase price shall be based
will be a need for the Government to
on the purchase prices of mined gold
keep newly-mined gold in this country
in all countries and shall take into
as much as possible. The Finance Min-
consideration the risk of fluctuation of
istry is studying how to accomplish
prices in the future and the interest
this and the bill will probably be in-
rate.
troduced in the current session of the
4. Any loss ineurred by the devalu-
Diet"
ation of the yen shall be made good
with the profits accruing from the ap-
vr
preciation of the value of the gold now
held in the Bank of Japan.
5. The Government shail (stablish
special accounts for the purchase of
the mined gold and the control of all
gold in its possession.

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
The Asahi
Tranelated by the Japan Idvertiser
Tokyo, Sunday, Jamuary &8, 1934.
the question of protection for famil-
Let Bygones Be Bygones
ies whose bread-earners are in serv-
ASAHI
ice, there should be limitations on
The proceedings of the Diet at the
discussions by soldiers. The question
reopening were exciting. It seemed as
is closely connected with the agricul-
though water long pent up had found
tural problem, social policy and admin-
istrative and financial questions. The
an cutlet. The question of military dis-
War Minister was not clear when he
cipline. which nobody had cared to
told his interrogator that it would be
touch. was broached. The Govern-
permissible for soldiers to concern
ment. anxious for national solidarity.
themselves in a certain phase of na-
attempted to persuade the political par-
tional politics. Unfortunately, Dr.
Ogawa failed to get the Minister to en-
ties not to indulge in utterances in the
lighten him on the point. Surely a
Diet which would excite the military.
closer examination of the matter would
Much can be said for such an agree-
ment. The parties should avoid any-
not have caused unnecessary excite-
ment to the military.
thing likely to excite the military un-
Frankly, the attitude of the political
necessarily. A clash between the par-
parties toward various pressing pro-
ties and the military is to be deprecated
blems before the nation is lukewarm.
and everything should be done to avoid
It seems as though they are debating
it. But matters relating to the military
questions of national moment as a mat-
can be discussed without arousing the
ter of formality. This connotes a seri-
military. Whether a criticism of mili-
ous retrogression in party government.
tary policy is injurious to national in-
But no good purpose would be served
terests is determined by the manner in
by attacking the parties for the lack
which it is made.
of real interest they are showing in
One cannot hope to make himself
national problems. Both the parties
important by pointing out defects in
and the government have been in a
cthers. If party men think that the
state of stagnation during the past
military is in the wrong. there is no
year or two. Thus it has been left to
reason why they should not say so
the military to do what should have
been done by the parties and the Gov-
publiely and call the attention of the
ernment. It is well for the politicians
military to it. But when they point
to accuse the military of interfering in
out defects in the military only to raise
politics, but at the same time they
themsclves in the eyes of others they
should apologize to the people and
are in the wrong and must be dis-
the military for their sabotage. Of late
couraged. To poin out defects in the
the Diet has recovered some of its lost
military is one thing; to recover the
power. This prompts us to question
lost influence of the parties is another.
whether the politicians are occupying
By accusing the military from mixed
themselves usefully by raising an out-
motiwes, party men will only be
cry about the interference of the mili-
provoking the military unnecessarily.
tary in politics. Let bygones be by-
The ublic will not think only the
gones. There is an important task
better of them but on the contrary wil
before the party men. It is to recover
become more disgusted. It is right for
the influence of the parties, which have
the political parties to criticize mili-
been in a paralytical state for some
tary policy, but in doing so they must
time.
be above party considerations. They
must take care not to b: influenced
by mob psychology.
Criticism of military policy cannot
be too heavy if it is made in the right
spirit. In this connection, Dr. Gotaro
Ogawa. a leading member of the Min-
seito. the other day formulated an in-
terpellation in the Lower House on the
question of participation of army and
navy officers in polities. This is a ques-
tion in which the public is closely con-
cerned and which it would have thor-
oughly diseussed from the standpoint
of national interests. Replying to the in-
terrogation, General Senjuro Hayashi,
the new Minister of War. expressed
general agreement with the view that
soldiers should not coneern themselves
in polities. He made an exception. He
said that there are questions in the dis-
cussion of which it would be hard
with the soldiers to expect them not
to take part. As an example, he point-
ed out the question of protecting fam-
ilies whose heads are under the colors.
He said that there would be nothing
particularly wrong about expressing
views on how to make an approach
to such a question. which concerns sol-
diers in general. His arguments are
convincing to a certain extent. It is
unfortunate that he failed to define the
point beyond which soldiers should not
interest themselves in politics without
exposing themselves to the charge of
interfering in politics. Even on

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advartimer
Toyo. Tueuday. Janary 30, 1924.
MINISTER TAKAHASHI
Reproaching the Finance Minister for
"lack of kindneas" in answering the
question, Mr. Kawasaki continued ex-
pressions of anxiety regarding financial
SAYS TIME NOT RIPE
prospects of the Government. The Fin-
ance Minister asked the interpellator
to confine his remarks to the 1934 bud-
FOR INCREASE IN TAX
get. Mr. Kawasaki read from the
minutes of the 1933 Diet to prove that
the Finance Minister had promised to
raise taxes through the 1934-35 budget,
but Mr. Takahashi refused to be drawn
into argument. merely assuring Mr.
Need of Manchukuo's Raw
Kawasaki that the time is not yet ripe
Materials by Japan's In-
for a tax increase.
Premier Evades Question
Then Mr. Kawasaki turned to Pre-
dustry Stressed in Diet
mier Saito, asking his opinion, but the
Premier merely remarked that he con-
TAX MEASURES DISCUSSED
curred with the opinion of the Finance
Minister.
Mr. Kawasaki next turned to the
question of currency control, pointing
Attacks of Military Die Down as
out that the purchase of gold bullion
Order of Business Brings
by the Government was at a price
lower than approximately four yen per
Up Domestic Questions
ounce from the world quotation. and
two yen from quotation in Japan. He
asked the Finance Minister if the Gov.
TAX INCREASE POSTPONED
ernment intended to raise the price,
and received the answer that the Gov
ernment could not do so because the
Diligent effort is being made by the
Government looked upon gold as an
article of merchandise and therefore
Government to establish industrial re-
had to set the price in the view of
lations between Japan and Manchukuo
the danger of a future decline, charge
so that each country may administer
for exportation and other considera-
to the needs of the other. Overseas
tions.
Mr. Kawasaki said the low price of-
Minister Ryutaro Nagai said yesterday
fered by the Government was likely
in the Diet in response to interpella-
to encourage smugglers of gold. Mr.
tion from Mr. Kumeshiro Kato of the
Takahashi assured Mr. Kawasaki that
Seiyukai.
the Government would not buy gold
other than newly-mined.
Manchukuo. the Overseas Minister
Shortly befcre the morning session
said. is rich in raw material, especially
&djourned. Dr. Seiko Ota. Seiyukai.
fuel. while Japan is especially well
tcgan an interpellation on he recent
equipped industrially.
establishment of the Japan Iron Manu-
facturing Company by means of the
The Diet switched yesterday. by
merger of several iron foundries. Noon
routine schedule, from discussion of
recess interrupted his questions. No
military affairs to civil matters. Leav-
answers were returned when the after-
ing behind a wave of resentment
noon session started. and Dr. Ota be-
gan an interpellation on taxes, refer-
among younger naval officers against
ring especially to the business profit.
what they insist was a "weak-kneed"
income tax and other levics. expressing
attitude on the part of Navy Minister
doubt as to the advisability of formu-
Mineo Osumi in replying to interpel-
lating next year's budgetary program
lations of cconomically-minded mem-
on the basis of increased receipts. To
bers of the Seiyukai and the Min-
which Chief Nakajima of the tax bu-
seito. the legislators took up matters of
reau of the Finance Ministry replied.
financial policy. interrogating Minis-
assuring the Seiyukai interpellator that
ters of State on the estimated increase
the Government was convinced esti-
in income tax, the business profit tax.
mates in the budget would not differ
the sake brewery tax and other na-
greatly from next year's receipts.
tional levits. Japan's expenditures in
The discussion entered Manchurian
Manchukuo came in for especial inter-
financial matters when Di. Ota asked
pellation.
War Minister Senjuro Hayashi why
Agreement Is Warm
the reserve fund for expenditures
The third day's session of the Lower
there had been reduced 50 per cent in
House on budgetary matters began at
10:25 o'clock when Mr. Shotaro Yano
the 1934-35 budget while the call for
of the Minseito interpellated Finance
actual expenditures remained the
Minister Takahashi as to the issuance
same. The reply was delivered by Mr.
oi Government bonds. Thereafter Mr.
Chojuro Onodera. chief of the pay-
Katsu Kawasaki, Minseito, took the
floor to continue the party's inquiries
master's burcau. who explained that
as to the financial policy of the Gov-
the reserve fund was largely intended
ernment. Finance Minister Takahashi
to provide for the manufacture of car_
declared that it was not advisable im-
tridges and transportation expenses.
mediately to consider a corporation tax
Dr. Ota said he doubted the statement.
increase merely because a few corpora-
because the area under guard in Man.
tions are reviving because of specific
churia has extended while proposed
reasons.
xpenditures for munitions have de-
Questioned as to his alleged failure
creased. but Mr. Onodera gave assur-
to keep a promise to include an increase
ance that the military authorities could
in postal charges in his budget pro-
manage everything with the reduced
posals for the 1934-35 fiscal year. the
reserve fund of 10,000,000
Finance Minister replied that he had
reconsidered. Asked why by Mr. Ka-
wasaki, the Finance Minister retorted.
"I see no reason why I should answer
a question of vours!"

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
10
The Japan Advertiser,
Tokyo, Meunonday, Junuary s1. 1964.
MINISTRY SCHEMES
Article 1-The Minister concerned is
vested with authority to restrict the
use of foreign wheat by flour mills
and brewers, when such restriction is
TO PROTECT WHEAT
deemed ncessary to maintain the mar-
ket price of wheat.
Article 2—The Minister concerned is
authorized to increase the import tariff
on wheat and wheat flour for a certain
Fears That Foreign Nations
period, when such action is deemed
necessary to maintain the market price
Will Commence Dumping Here
of wheat. This action shall be taken
Unless Bars Are Raised
by Imperial ordinance.
Article 3—Matters necessary for in-
vestigating the cost of wheat produc-
WANT TO HOLD UP PRICE
tion, the present output of wheat flour
and prices shall be regulated by re-
gulation from time to time.
Article 4—When the Minister con-
Idea Is Encouragement of Wheat
cerned deems such investigations neces-
sary, he shall instruct producers.
Growing, to Make Japan
traders and warehouse owners to sub-
Self-Sufficient
mit reports on required items and shall
dispatch officials to make surveys of
books, business offices and warehouses.
A bill for the protection of wheat
Article 5-Persons or concerns using
foreign wheat in violation of Article
growers will be submitted to the pres-
1 shall be subjected to fines not ex-
ent session of the Imperial Diet by the
ceeding ¥5.000. Such wheat used by
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
them shall be confiscated. If the Gov-
The object is to restrict imports of for-
ernment is unable to confiscate part or
eign wheat.
all the wheat a due amount of forfeit
Since the fiseal year of 1932-33 the
shall be placed on it.
Ministry has been encouraging increas-
Rice Crop Reported
ed wheat production on a five-year plan
The first official report on the 1933
with the ultimate idea of making this
rice crop was made by the Ministry of
country self-sufficient. The first year
Agriculture and Forestry yesterday.
of enforcement increased the crop by
The report covered 12 prefectures.
1.500.000 koku (a koku being 5.12 bush-
Data on other prefectures will be issu-
els). The market price of wheat has
ed later. The total for the 12 was 18,-
risen sharply to make good the decline
697,286 koku in contrast to 17,651,170
in the exchange rate and ther: are
koku. the estimate at the end of Octo-
signs that Japanese farmers. who have
ber. The figures cover both paddy and
seen little betterment in the position
upland rice. Actual crops and the
October 31 estimates follow:
of rice in spite of of the heavy ex-
more toward wheat. However. the pre-
change differential, will turn more and
Prefectures
Real crop
(In koku)
on Oct. 31
Estimates
sent prosperity of Japanese wheat de-
Aomori
1.419,370
1.352.300
pends entirely on the exehange rate.
Akita
2.221.911
2.141.870
according to the Ministry, and. at pres-
Gumma
937.961
840.370
ent prices, it is necessary to proteet it
Saitana
1.457.490
1.357.660
still more.
Toyama
1.915,085
1.821.950
If foreign countries have bumper
Shizuoka
1.502.076
1,429.360
to dump on the Japanese market. tie
crops and lower prices, they are apt
Mie
Shigh
Aichi
2.349.069
1,615.634
1.654.538
1.536.040
1,518,110
2.263.010
officials fear. and the wheat farmers
Ehinne
1.106.634
1.044.720
may become discouraged in spite of
Sag.
1.511.161
1.377.150
the efforts of the Government. There-
Miyazaki
1.006.357
978 560
fore, the plan is to provide permanent
Total
18.697.286
17.651.170
protection for the wheat farmers. The
Ministry is, watching with some trepi-
dation the operations of the wheat ex-
port indemnitication law recently pass-
ed in the United States.
Will Hold Conferences
Before the Ministry submits the bill
t. the Imperial Diet. it will hold con-
ferences with officials of the Finance
Ministry. the Foreign Office and the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
Until 1932 imports of wheat into Japan
totaled at least 5,000,000 koku a year.
worth more than Y50,000.000 at that
time. In 1932 imports were 5,599,000
koku. worth Y49.570.000 and 1933 un-
ports were 3.757.000 koku. worth Y44.-
380.000. Details of the draft of the
protection bill follow:

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
The Hochi
Translated by the Japan Advertiser
Tokyo, Wednesday, January 31, 1y34.
Diet Politics Reviving
HOCHI
Diet politics has revived. It has parti-
ally revived, but not wholly, as may
be seen from the progress of the situa-
tion in the Diet. Attacks have been
directed against military discipline,
but the answers of the War and Navy
Ministers have not been sufficiently
thorough to satisfy the people at large.
They simply referred to the military
criminal law. which prohibits officers
on the active list from participating
in politics. When officers break the
law, they said, they are punished. The
Ministers seem to attach importance
to legal matters, but the spiritual signi-
ficance of the question is far greater.
They quoted the Imperial Rescript
awarded to the soldiers and sailors by
the late Emperor Meiji in connec-
tion with participation in politics. The
article which says that "soldiers and
sailors should refrain from politics" is
much dcbated. Its application depends
upon its interpretation, and there is
wide variance of interpretation, depend-
ing on who is doing the interpreting. At
any rate the article is being discussed
seriously. The Diet and the military
must settle the matter. In our opin-
ion. however, the late Emperor Meiji
must have had but one view and ex-
pressed it simply in the Rescript. There
is no reason for the meaning to differ
according to time and circumstances.
Its true meaning must be reffected as
from a clear mirror on the minds of
all soldiers and sailors from the Field-
Marshals and Fleet-Admirals down.
What do the War Minister and the
Navy Minister think of this? It is im-
portant that the Diet have more de-
finite replies from these responsible
Ministers. The military must keep in
touch with active polities. but it must
do so through official channels. There
must be a clear line of distinction be-
tween the military as a whole and offli-
cialdon.
Another seriots issue on the floor of
the Diet is corruption of oflicial dis-
cipline. in which one Cabinet Minister
i, alleged to be involved. It is a
matter of special regret that a mem-
ber of the present Cabinet is suspect-
ed. for the Cabinet stands for purifica-
tien of the political atmosphere. As
it has been exposed in the Diet, the
matter must be discussed thoroughly
and settled. Party Cabinets used to
face this sort of problem with com-
parative frequency. but it is surpris-
ing to see the Saito Cabinet, one of
whose important missions is political
purification. besmirched in the same
manner. The present scandal may be
somewhat different from past seandals.
In the past. divergence of political
opinion would probably have given the
discussion serious proportions. At any
rate. the discussion must be thorough
in order to lift suspicion from the
Cabinet Minister involved.
We also hope that the Diet will take
up corruption of public morals. which
has of late been increasing. Though
the matter may have no diréct bearing
on politics. it affects public discipline.
It is entirely too important to be ignor-
ed by the Diet.

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
12
The Japan Advertiser,
Tokyo, Wednesday, January 31, 1943.
would be premature to tabe aeti
with the most serious one, and I am
steps toward Chine new. It woukd 
INDIAN TRADE PACT
doing my utmost to break the deadlock
in the negotiations for sale of the North
Manchuria (Chinese Eastern) Railway
DENOUNCED IN DIET
to Manchukuo."
propose to do nothing mere theer
Mr. Nagashima then commented that
watch developments."
the Foreign Minister's statement would
Turning to the reakm of inter
seem to give the impression that all ex-
economics, Mr. Nagashima
AS BLOW TO JAPAN
traordinary conditions had been dealt
the opinion that intense m
with. But Mr. Nagashima doubted this.
He declared, on the contrary, that it
was necessary to take defnite measures
had increased the obstacles to a free
to promote friendly relations with the
flow of trade. He wanted to heer t
Interpellators at Budgetary
United States. Mr. Hirota replied to
Foreign Minister's views.
this with the announcement that the
Meeting of Lower House De-
matter was under careful consideration,
but that he was not in a position to
trade probably will continue," Mr. H
rota replied. "In order to co-ordine
clare It Unsuccessful
divulge details.
Relations With Rusia
The interpellator returned to rela-
FOREIGN RELATIONS AIRED
recent speeches by Soviet leaders
tions with the U. S. S. R., saying that
tenance of a practical economic policy
by diplomatic means."
might be taken as indications that
Mr. Nagashima continued, accordi
those leaders anticipated war. Mr.
to Nippon Dempo: "In the backgrot
Hirota, Replying to Questions,
Nagashima feared that, if ignored the
of both Sino-Japanese relations d
Sees no Danger of Trouble
situation might lead to something
serious. He wanted to know whether
American-Japanese relations, there -
ists British activity. In view of this
in Frontier Situation
the Foreign Minister had any definite
program for dealing with the situa-
fact the relations between Japan and
Great Britain are of the utmost 
tion.
portance, and a mere regulation
IMPROVEMENT IS CLAIMED
"their traditional conceptions of fron-
between Japan and the U.S.S.R. in
Mr. Hirota rep lied that differences
tries would seem to be insufflelent"
trade relations between the two oum
Mr. Hirota: "The importance of the
agreement on the score that the recent
negotiations were unsuccessful was
Criticism of the Indo-Japanese trade
that the Soviet leaders have become
tier defense," were one of the causes
of the present situation. "I believe
more moderate in their speeches since
position Great Britain holds among
nations of the world and in their d
plomatic activities, as well as the ne-
cessity of maintaining co-operation be
ween Japan and Great Britain, are too
voiced at yesterday afternoon's session
the resumption of diplomatic relations
of the budget committee of the Lower
between Russia and the United States."
he went on. "I intend to make even
well known to need mention. I am
House of the Diet, by Mr. Ryuji Naga-
greater efforts to alleviate the exist-
op:imistic regarding both the political
shima, one of several Seiyukai inter-
ing atmosphere. In order to do this,
and economic relations between Jape
pellators who held forth at yesterday's
I believe that the border between
and Great Britain. Many Conservasve:
sessions. Interpellation on the trade
Manchukuo and the Soviet should be
left unfortified. as is the border be-
leaders of Great Britain look back at
the Anglo-Japanese Alliance and
situation brought forth replies from
tween the United States and Canada.
wonder why it was ever abrogated. I
the Government's representatives that
I believe this is more necessary than
share that feeling with them. with
the Government was either taking or
considering measures to deal with trade
such abstract steps as concluding a
non-aggresion treaty between Japan
such feeling on both sides I am not
the least anxious about relations, either.
diplomatic or political. Between the
the problem of economie bloes abroad
obstacles raised in the form of increased
working against this country's com-
tariffs against Japanese goods; to solve
and the Soviet."
Hirota said the fact that Japan, in ac-
cordance with the Japan-Manchukuo
According to Rengo's account. Mr.
two nations. I believe it is neces
sary at the present time, however, to
regulate trade relations between them.'
After Session
nerce; and to improve and extend the
arkets for Japanese goods.
Foreign relations came in for an ex-
protocol. has troops along the Soviet-
Manchukuo border. apparently had
caused the Soviet authorities to send
o'clock after the noon recess, Mr. Na-
gashima asked for further details of the
When the session resumed at 1:30
o :e budget committee. Replying to
Mr  agashima and other interpellators.
n ive review at the morning meeting
der. He felt this the sole cause of
troops and munitions toward that bor-
abnormal developments in the dir lo-
Government's foreign policy, and the
Foreign Minister said that the poliey
rneeded now must be capable of making
F gn Minister Koki Hirota and War
ard with Great Britain had improved
Minister Senjuro Hayashi asserted that
in recent months, and denied that there
was danger of war with Russia in the
Siberian frontier situation.
relations with America, with the Soviet
tion in the morning by asking if it were
Mr. Nagashima began his interpella-
Relations Growing Better
matie relations between the countries.
be reached for defense of the border."
but asserted that Japan has no inten-
tion at all of taking the initiative in
making trouble.
he was quoted as saying.
preparations were likely to be of an
whether or not any frontier military
"I am hoping that an agre ment may
The interpellator wanted to know
the will of the people as a whole un-
derstood by foreign countries.
whether the Premier was prepared ful-
ly to regulate matters concerning n-
tional defense. the Ministry's financial
policy. and economic policy and the
foreign: policy. ln repiy Premier Saito
said that the Government's attitude to-
ward regulation of financial affadrs
Mr. Nagashima wanted to know
true that the international situation has
aggresive nature rather than defensive.
just exactly what has been outlined
been developing in favor of Japan since
To this General Hayashi replied. stat-
by Finance Minister Takahashi on seve-
its withdrawal from the League. Mr.
ing that such preparations are pri-
ral occasions. He added that effot
Hirota replied in tre affirmative.
marily of a defensive nature. but that
were being made to lighten the burde
excite opinion for a time immediately
"The Manchurian question served to
certain training in aggressive operation:
are also necessary.
of the farmer.
Mr. Mitsugu Tanaka. Minseito me
after Japan's withdrawal from the
League." the Foreign Minister explain-
Japan's policy toward China next
Poliey Toward China
ber, asked what measures the Forei
ed. "But as the actual state of affairs
was taken up as a subject for ques-
situation arising from the fact that the
has become better understood, the situ-
ation has calmed down, and there have
been increasing signs of improvement
in relations with China. America and
the Soviet."
the Far Eastern policy of the Roose-
Mr. Hirota made specific mention of
Government think the present time was
tioning. Mr. Nagashima pointed out
that the Chinese. owing to domestic
attitude toward Japan. Did not the
troubles, seemed to be changing their
opportune for initiating negotiations in-
better to wait. This does not mean.
country's trade has been developt
unfavorably since last August, due 
abroad.
in:creased tariff's and import restriction
the officials concerned. this matter h
Mr. Hirota: "After discussion amot
velt Administration. pointing out that
the American Atlantic Fleet was re-
iurning to its original base from the
Pacifie.
ing more than idly watch develop-
however, that we propose to do noth-
ments."
Mr. Hirota replied: "Japan and
Committee. which is giving it caref
study." He added that the Governmen
is giving special consideration to t
"We had hoped to solve all questions
China must establish foundations for
situation in Japanese markets abrom
between Japan and the Soviet arising
an unshakeable friendship. but their
its policy being based generally on th
have not been able to do so. To be
out of the Manchurian incident, but we
frank, I should like to solve all such
should be since the Manchurian in-
rehations have not been what they
cident. It is only fair to think that
principle of reciprocity.
was doing to cope with internations
A question on what the Governme
problems now pending by beginning
their improvement must take time. It
economic blocs was answered by
Minister of Commerce and Industr
Baron Kumakichi Nakajima. He thoug
it inevitable that an economic 
must be countered with a similar one
The Trade Treaty
Mr. Nagashima interrupted to 
why the Governnient did not nego
Late directly with the British Govern

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
its withdrawal from the League. Mr.
To this General Hayashi replied. stat-
just exactly what has been
Hirota replied in the affirmative.
ing that such preparations are pri-
"The Manchurian question served to
marily of a defensive nature. but that
ral occasions. He added that
excite opinion for a time immediately
certain training in aggressive operations
were being made to lighten the bu
after Japan's withdrawal from the
are also necessary.
of the farmer.
League." the Foreign Minister explain-
Poliey Toward China
Mr. Mitsugu Tanaka, Minseite
has become better understood, the situ-
ed. "But as the actual state of affairs
was taken up as a subject for ques-
Japan's polioy toward China next
ber. asked what medsures:
Minister contemplated to deak
ation has calmed down, and there have
tioning. Mr. Nagashima pointed out
been increasing signs of improvement
that the Chinese, owing to domestic
in relations with China, America and
troubles, seemed to be changing their
the Soviet."
attitude toward Japan. Did not the
i:creased tariffs and import nestric
Mr. Hirota made specific mention of
Government think the present time was
abroad.
the Far Eastern policy of the Roose-
velt Administration, pointing out that
opportune for initiating negotiations in-
better to wait. This does not mean,
turning to its original base from the
Pacifie.
the American Atlantic Fleet was re-
ing more than idly watch develop-
however, that we propose to do noth-
been referred to the Trade
"We had hoped to solve all questions
ments."
between Japan and the Soviet arising
China must establish foundations fdr
Mr. Hirota replied: "Japan and
have not been able to do so. To be
out of the Manchurian incident, but we
an unshakeable friendahip, but their
frank, I should like to solve all such
relations have not been wbet they
probloms now pending by beginning
cident. It is only fair to think that
should be since the Manchurimet in+
their improvement must take time. It
Baron Kumakichl Wa
must be countered with a similer
The Trade Treety
Mr. Nagashima interrupted.t
why the Government did 
ate directly with the British Govera-
ment on the subject of Inde~Japénsse
trade troubles. The Foreign Mae
replied that the negotiations hed been
carried on with the Indim Govern-
ment because that Government handles
its own political and economie s.
Both interpellators then injected ct-
ticism of the Indo-Japanese trade n
gotiations, asserting that their outoome
had been "unsuccessful."
Mr. Tanaka: "At the recent comfet-
ence of the five Ministers of State,
Government, it was said, dedided 
the first to fix the quota at 400,0
square yards. Have the Ministers
War and the Navy heard anythin
about the decision:
Admiral Mineo Osumi, Navy Mm-
ister: "Nothing can be said about mat
ters discussed at the five Minister
conferences."
Mr. Tanaka: "The industrialists de
manded a quota of 500,000;000 square
yards, but the Government is said to
have overridden their opinion and to
have decided 400,000,000 square yards.
What is the truth about this?
Mr. Hirota: "As the negotiations are
still under way for concluded of a new
commercial treaty, this is not the time
to reveal anything about it.
Mr. Tanaka: "What is the quantity
of Indian raw cotton which Japan will
need yearly in the future."
Baron Nakajima: "About 1,500,000
bales."
Hirota Dissatmfled
Mr. Tanaka: "Does the Government
consider the treaty with India a suc-
cess?"
Mr. Hirota: "I am not astisfed with
it.
In the course of yesterday after-
noon's session a hardy perennial came
up when Mr. Hikosaburo Kurihara of
the Kokumin Domei obtained the floor
and asked the Government about poi-
sonous substances flowing into a riv-
er from the Ashio copper mine. He
has brought up this subject at every
session .or years.
Mr. Kurihara:
"The cor per mine
gives off poisonous mud and sand.
containing arsenic acid. to the quanti-
ty of 700.000 tons annually. When it
rains this poisonous River, causing
flows into the Watarase River, causing
considerable damage in Gumma, To-
chigi and other Prefectures through
which the river flows. Is the Govern-
ment holding the mine operators re-
sponsible for this. or is the Govern-
ment responsible?"
Mr. Takao Saito. Parliamentary Vice.
Minister of Home Affairs, replied: "The
Government and the operators are
spending more than ¥300,000 annually
on measures to prevent poisonous sub-
stances from being introduced into
the stream.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
13
The Nichi-Nichi
Dranslated by the Japan Advertiser
Tokyo, Thursday, February 1, 1934.
Aside from the matter of undesirable
Control Over Books
publications. the Home Office has
FUKUOKA NICHI NICHI
neglected to control other similar
phases of misguided anti-foreignism.
The Ministry of Home Affairs has
particularly mass meetings held in the
decided to control the publication and
large cities ostensibly for spiritual
sale of books and magazines with a
Iromotion. but actually for the pur-
view to check the circulation of po-
pose of leading the popular mind to-
ward militarism. It is. in our opinion,
pular literature containing passages
principally the slackness of the authori-
liable to stimulate the growth of a
ties with regard to such affairs that
warlike sentiment among general rea-
has caused a misunderstanding of
ders. This decision comes as a na-
Japan abroad and the impression in
tural response to the conspicuous in-
foreign countries that Japan is now
crease in the volume of this kind of
embarked on the preparation for a
reading-matter. making capital of the
sccond world war. Had not the Home
n.isundcrstood international position to
Office failed to overlook the importance
which Japan has been reduced and
of these developments in Japan. this
the prcvailing popular belief that an
country would now be in a much
arned confliet in the near future is
happier position in the light of inter-
unavoidable.
national politics. The Home Office.
The unfortunate fact that the
not the Foreign Office. we believe, is
publication of such literature during
also responsible for the foreign rumor
the past few years has been allowed
that Jar an is on the verge of a
to remain uncontrolled bespeaks for
didtatership.
a serious neglect of duty on the Iart
Another serious neglect of duty com-
of the authorities concerned. Matters
mitted by the Home Office has been
have heen handled so loosely that at
its failure to control the rightist move-
the moment even magazines of es-
ments conducted through every avail-
tablished reputation are catering to
able channel in all parts of the coun-
less-infarmed readers by printing
try. These have been allowed to pass
imaginary accounts of a future war
uncenrored, while every comparatively
involving Japan. In most cases the
innocent activity of the Communists
"enemy" country is freely named. re-
has been taken severely to task. We
gardless of the harmful effeets such
ure by no means in favor of the prin-
crudeness may have on international
ciples of Communism. We believe.
relations. In the domestic field such
however. tiat the nationalists can be.
publications have inflamed. unneces-
and are. in many ways quite as dan-
sarily. the psychology and general out-
gerous. We believe very sincerely that
look of the masses.
equal vigor is needed in suppressing the
Ever since the outbreak of Man-
two grouy s.
thurian fighting the Government has
Every step must be taken to sup-
taken an over-generous stand with re-
press the rumor of a Japanese dietator-
gard to the so-called patriotic move-
:hip. It must be remembered that in
ments and their various 1hases of
this country it is a grave constitu-
popular expression. This has stood
tional offence to speak of the possi-
out in sharp contrast to the rigid
Lility of such an eventuality. wrecking
vigilance maintained toward the ac-
the Imperial Constitution.
tivities of Communism.
While the so-called patriotie publica-
tions have inflamed popular military
sentiment on the one hand. on the
other these have fostered anti-foreign
feeling and have directly or indirectly
damaged our international regulation
to a very great degrec. In Iarticular
they have been the cause of reckless
irresponsible criticism against the
Soviet Union and the United States.
the governments of which countries
have stood in frank opposition to our
Manchurian pohcy.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
#14
The Japan Aavertiser,
Tokyo, Thursday, Februar 1, 1934.
DIET SPEAKER SAYS
"On the other hand, what attitude
will the other Powers take? Accord-
ing to British newspapers, the Powers
RUSSIA, JAPAN HAVE
will insist on the present ratio. For
America, the navy has of course decid-
ed its poliey, even if the Government
NO REÁL WAR CAUSE
not yet decided.
"If the Japanese and American Gov-
ernments decide their attitude toward
the conference in accordance with
their navies' decision, the conference is
sure to rupture. Opitimists say even
Even Railway Dispute Not Ade-
if the conference ends in rupture there
will be no danger of war and naval
quate Reason, Declares For-
competition, but others fear that the
failure of the conference will bring
mer Foreign Minister
about keen naval competition, even if
War may be averted. Pessimists fear
one thing after another.
FISHERIES ARE DISCUSSED
"Then, what measures should be
(aken? If the conference is sure to
rupture, it is better not to open it.
Hirota Says in Interpellation
Preliminary negotiations are necessary
prior to the opening of the conference,
Japan's Mandate Status not
and those negotiations should decide
whether the conference be opened or
Subject to Change
not. Not to open the conference, in my
belief. is advisable not only for Japan
but also for America.
REFER TO ARMS PARLEY
Far East Plan Settled
"Next. I consider that the Far East-
ern problems will be taken up again
Argument that no difficulties exist
at the disarmament conference of next
between Japan and Russia serious
ycar, following the example set up at
enough to cause a resort to war. ad-
the previous Washington Conference. In
this respect, the Government should
vice to Japan and the United States
decided its policy. If the Far Eastern
not to hold the 1935 naval conference
problems are takcn up, many diffi-
if preliminary negotiations indicate the
cult questions will be discussed. Japah
possibility of failure, statements that
has no feeling of shame about what it
the Japanese mandatory rule in the
has done up to this day. Japan is ful-
ly responsible for the maintenance of
South Seas will suffer no change be-
peace in the Far East. Accordingly,
cause of Japan's withdrawal from the
there is no need of discussing the Far
League o. Nations. and a prolonged
Eastern problems again. There was no
discussion of the Soviet-Japanese fish-
such discussion at the London Con-
ference.
cries situation in northern waters.
"The next problem is the South-Sea
were salient events in yesterday's ses-
islands under Japan's mandate. Al-
ion of the Diet.
ticugh there is no need of further dis-
Mr. Keniehi Yoshizawa. former For-
cussion of the matter. it may be brought
eign Minister. in the course of a long
up by some country, and Japan should
discussion of diplomatie affairs in the
posse:ses sufficient legal ground. In
House of Peers, deplored the appear-
this connection. the necessity of dip-
ance of recent Japanese-written books
Iomatic negotiations is felt at present.
describing imaginary wars.
and should be used to avoid possible
Mr. Fumio Goto. Minister of Agrl-
nisunderstanding of the Powers."
port that authorities are contemplating
culture and Forestry. denied the re-
ir ternational situation by figures. Japan
"It is difficult to explain the present
joint Soviet-Japanese management of
has never demanded that it have the
fishing grounds in the north. Mandate
right to build a vessel if America builds
atd naval conference matters were
a vessel. However. it is quite natural
touched on in the course of interpel-
to demand a certain increase of the
lations.
naval ratio. taking the present situa-
Mr. Yoshizawa recalled that Premier
tion into consideration. If Japan is
Saito and Foreign Minister Hirota had
unable to maintain peace in the Far
oven assurance of intention to ease
East with the existing 5-5-3 ratio. Japan
thiough diplomatic methods the dif-
should demand the proper ratio to
fi. ul! situation arising from Japan's
maintain the Far Eastern peace. It is
withdrawa! from the League of Na-
my earnest hope that the Government
tions and said he believed many ob-
devise fool-proof measures on the mat-
stacles lav in the patm.
ter.
Effect Ratio Demand
"The next I want to speak about is
"Among other things. as you all
Soviet-Japanese relations. Various re-
know. the terms of the Washington
ports and rumors are in circulation re-
and Londen Treaties wil! expire in
garding the relations between the two:
1935-36, and the next disarmament con-
ference is to open next year. The
Navy Minister. Admiral Osumi. has
stated that Japan would not be satis-
fied with the existing ratio. I don't
know what attitude the Government
will take toward the next disarmament
conference. but the attitude of the navy
is quite clear.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.98)
of the revision of the Soviet-Japanese
sured him that the authorities cone
fishery agreement in 1936, the Foreign
ed were doing all possible to co
Office is considering a possible change
with the spirit expressed by the
of attitude toward the public auction
colution adopted at the th 
system.
The fishery question was brought up
fuel in this country, to which Baren
by Mr. Seiichi Aoki of the Seiyukai.
Sakamoto responded by urging the
Mr. Aoki declared that Jaian's fishery
Government further to do its bes in
rights in the northern waters were
the matter.
"obtained at the cost of precious blood
Other House of Peers members -
shed during the Russo-Japanese War."
pressed doubts similar to those of .
1 spite of this fact, the interpellate
Kamiyama as to the advisability of
declared that present conditions are
merger of the iron foundries. Many
rendcring it difficult to maintain those
factors remain yet to be considered by
cordingly. he urged the Government
rights, due to Soviet oppression. Ac-
the House, they said, and expressed
the hope that the question would be
to enforce strong control of the fishery
taken up at the sessions of the Budget
interests in order to cope with the
Committee of the House of Peers
Sovict systenm, under which the Soviet
which is expected to be held shortly.
fishing grounds are managed by the
Not Well Recelved
State.
Rengo said Baron Nakajima's replies
In reply, Premier Saito expressed in-
to the interpellation by Mr. Kamiyama
tention to protect the vital fishery
today were received with a frown,
rights. The Premier added that, as the
questien concerns relations between
so to speak. by Government delegates
Japan and the Soviet. the Foreign Of-
concerned. In circles close to the Min-
fice is studying the matter carefully.
istry of Commerce and Industry it was
Can't Switch Pollcy
explained that Baron Nakajima com-
The interpellator reiterated his qucs-
mitted a mistake in stating that it was
tion as to whether the Government in-
tends to unify the fishery rights by
impossible to say how much the cost
authority of the State. The Premier
of production could be reduced as the
replied. that the Government has an
result of the formation of the Govern-
already-established policy which can-
ment controlled concern, because the
not be changed hastily.
Government had assured the Diet at
The Foreign Minister then began a
its last session about the estimated re-
reply to Mr. Aoki's questions. Inspite
duction of the cost. It was stated that.
of the Prenier's statement. the For-
in spite of the assistance given him by
eign Minister expressed approval of Mr.
Government delegates in charge at the
Aoki's suggestion that strong control
tine of his speech. that Baron Naka-
of the fishery interests must exercised
jima refused to listen to counsel given
to cope with the Soviet system of state
him and made the statement that it was
management of fishing grounds. The
impossible to estimate the rate of re-
Foreign Minister then revealed that the
duction in the cost of production.
Foreign Office is considering the ad-
Mr. Kamiyama told Rengo that he
visability of the establishment of 
had received a telegram from his na-
tive town. Mitajiri. telling him of the
stmi-official concern for that purpose.
Mr. Aoki: Is it true that the De-
death of his c!der sister this morning.
He referred the matter to the secret-
portment of Agriculture and Forestry
ariat of the House of Peers and asked
Sovi : Uhton. but atso in a thurd coun-
try, much coneern is felt about th, two
countries. No: oniy in Japan and the
intends to place the fishing grounds in
northern waters under joint Soviet-
Japanese management?
Minister Geto: The authorities are
from the House today. but was assur-
if it was not better for him to keep
ed by the secretariat to the contrary,
countries relations. Howover. I do not
consider any serious question impends
be s tled by a resort to arms. True
between the two countri:s w: ich should
the transter of the North Manchuria
not o crioe. that Japon oml the So-
Railway 1 a serions problem. but it is
not contemplating such measure at the
present time.
sted with th, management of the Soviet
Government about Japan's being entru-
fishing grounds? Does the Government
intend to do away with the publie aue-
Mr. Aoki: What is the opinion of the
decision to effect the merger," he said,
have changed so much that assurances
and therefore he continued his inter-
pellation.
"in spite of the fact that conditions
"I cannot agree to the Government
Has Adverse Opinion
viet Union must fight.
tion  ystem, hich I believe should
given at the Budget Committee of the
"It is a matter of regre thot some
be (xcluded under all circunstances.
last s'ssion cf the Diet do not hold
s nsationad books were issued in Japen
when the Soviet-Jaganese fishery agree-
good now."
regarding expeeted war between Japon
ment is revised?
He (xnressed the hope that uneer-
and th: Soviet Umon. Some respon-
Minister Hirota: The question of en-
tainties in the matter would be clari-
sible offietals of the Soviet Govern-
trusting Japan with the management
fied by other members at meeting of
ment and persons of bogh ranks in
of Soviet fishing ground, i, a matter
the Budget Committee of the House of
America. Franee and other countries.
concerning the national poliey of the
Peers.
alk et the pessbithey of tee Japanese
Soviet. Th refore. I am not in a posi-
The House of Peers will epen its
Sovet war. But. I cnnor under tand
tion to say anything about it. As re-
plenary sersion at 10 o'clock this morn-
why the situation i, so acote.
gards the puble anction ystem. 1 d)
ing. Continuing from previous day.
Sense sey thac: thee diflicul: relation
not regard it as a wise measure. 1
inter,peliations to Ministers of State
between Jupan and 1 e Sovitt e. main-
intend to give due consideration to the
will be conducted. Mr. Jinjiro Mizu-
ly due to the diffe rene of heir ne
matter when t e fishery agreement is
no. Keyukai. will quiz the Premitr,
tionadhty. Japan sheuld n:1 ever her
revised.
Home Minister and Justice Minister on
relations witi the Soviet for tha: rea-
Mr. Aoki: Wi at is the Government's
national defense. Mr. Jusha Tsumura,
son.
attitude toward including some repre-
Kenkyukai. will put questions to the
Minister Hirota rephed that an under
sentatives of the tishery intcrests in
Premier. Overs as Minister. War Min-
standing was reached between Japan
the Government's delegation to the
ister. Foreign Minister. Navy Minister
and the Allies to have the islands an-
Soviet-Japanese conference to be call-
and Commeree Minister on Manchurian
nexed to Japan. and he expressed the
d to consider a revision of the fishery
problems and industrial control.
opinion that although Japan was foreed
agreement?
The House of Repres:ntatives will
to agree to the mandate system. her
Minister Hirota: Nothing definite can
hold its budgct meeting at 10 o'clock.
withdrawal from the League of Nations
be said about such a question at the
when Messrs. Sokichi Yata and Eiki-
will cause no change in her position
present time.
chi Hikita. Seivukai members. will be
as the mandatory Power and the fiet
Discuss Foundry Merger
interpellants cn agricultural problems.
that the islands are a part of Japan.
The morning session in the Hotese of
and emergeney relief problems.
Sericus Thought Needed
Peers began with interpellation of the
A system of bounties to agricultural
"The position of the Japanese Empire
Government. continued from the previ-
villages to relieve distress was urged
Is such." said Mr. Hirota. that it re-
cus day. by Mr. Mitsunoshin Kamiyama
by Mr. Masanori Katsu of the Minsei-
quires no mention of the fact that
op the merger of iron foundries into
to. Minister Goto agreed some plan
not only the authorities but the peo-
the Government-controlled Japan Iron
of the kind would be useful. but he
ple as a whole should be serious-
ininded in dealing with the present
situation. We musi bay serious at-
tention if we are to cross an abyss on
Foundry Company. The entire morn-
regatten and the answers by Baron Ku-
ing session was occupied with the inter-
claimed a lack of funds. Thereafter
Mr. Akira Kazami accused the Gov-
crnment of dilatory conduct in draft-
thin iee. but we nust not stand in
makichi Nakajima. Minister of Com-
ing a suitable plan for the lightening
undue fear.
meree and Industry.
of land taxation. The Premier said
"It is essential to enhance Japan's
The Minister took the restrum first.
the plan was under consideration, and
reputation. In oider to do that. we
explainme that he wouid explain the
undoubtedly should be hastened. Mr.
must have coascience. It would be
method o evaluation of the merged
Goto said he believed the strengtening
very unwis, to allow an undue feel-
concerns. "because." he said. "the
of the existing system was better than
ing of unrest or suspicion to exist at
questioner had asked me to go
a change in the cxisting small- scale
home. I believe that our country's
through the stenographie record of
agricultural system to common
reputation in the world wi!t be en-
his questions yesterday. I did so." The
management.
hanced if we hold ounselve with
Minister expressed the belief that ther:
Mr. Kaaami thereafter asked Rail-
justice and moderation.
was no irregularity or injustice in the
Way Minister Chuzo Mitsuchi the pos-
s Covernment has not vet work.
evaluation of the merged concerns.
sibilitics of a reduction of freight

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
Soviet system, under which the Soviet
s  oruer to cope with the
which is expected to be held
fishing grounds are managed by the
Not Well Recelved
State.
Rengo said Baron Nakajima's re
In reply, Premier Saito expressed in-
to the interpellation by Mr. Kamiya
tention to protect the vital fishery
today were received with a fro
rights. The Premier added that, as the
questicn concerns relations between
so to speak, by Government deleg
Japan and the Soviet, the Foreign Of-
concerned. In circles close to the Mi
fice is studying the matter carefully.
istry of Commerce and Industry it w
Can't Switch Policy
explained that Baron Nakajims
The interpellator reiterated his ques-
mitted a mistake in stating that 
ticn as to whether the Government in-
impossible to say how much the
tends to unify the fishery rights by
authority of the State. The Premier
of production could be reduced
replied, that the Government has an
already-established policy which can-
ment controlled concern, becu
not be changed hastily.
The Foreign Minister then began a
reply to Mr. Aoki's questions. Inspite
duction of the cost. It was stated that,
of the Premier's statement, the For-
in spite of the assistance given him by
eign Minister expressed approval of Mr.
Government delegates in charge at the
Aoki's suggestion that strong control
time of his speech, that Baron Naks-
of the fishery interests must exercised
jima refused to listen to counsel given
to cope with the Soviet system of state
him and made the statement that it was
management of fishing grounds. The
impossible to estimate the rate of re
Foreign Minister then revealed that the
duction in the cost of production.
Foreign Office is considering the ad-
Mr. Kamiyama told Rengo that he
visability of the establishment of a
had received a telegram from his na-
scmi-official concern for that purpose.
tive town. Mitajiri, telling him of the
Mr. Aoki: Is it true that the Dc-
death of his elder sister this morning.
partment of Agriculture and Forestry
He referred the matter to the secret-
Sovi:t Union. but also in a third coun-
countries. Not oniy in Japan and the
northern waters under joint Soviet-
ir.tends to place the fishing grounds in
ariat of the House of Peers and asked
if it was not better for him to keep
from the House today, but was assur-
try, much concern is felt about the two
Japanese management?
Minister Gcto: The authorities are
ed by the secretariat to the contrary,
countries relations. However. I do not
and therefore he continued his inter-
consider any serious question impends
not contemplating such measure at the
pellation.
the transfer of the North Manchuria
between the two countries which should
be settled by a resort to arms. True
present time.
Government about Japan's being entru-
Mr. Aoki: What is the opinion of the
decision to effect the merger," he aid,
"I cannot agree to the Government
Has Adverse Opinion
Railway is a serious problem, but it is
fishing grounds? Does the Government
sted with the management of the Soviet
"in spite of the fact that conditions
not so serious that Japam and the So-
viet Union must fight.
tion system. which I believe should
intend to do away with the public aue-
have changed so much that assurances
given at the Budget Committee of the
sensational books were issued in Japan
regarding expected war between Japan
"It is a matter of regret that some
when the Soviet-Japanese fishery agree-
ment is revised?
be excluded under all circumstances,
last scssion of the Diet do not hold
good now."
He expressed the hope that uncer-
and the Soviet Union. Some respon-
Minister Hirota: The question of en-
tainties in the matter would be clari-
sible officials of the Soviet Govern-
trusting Japan with the management
fied by other membcrs at meeting of
ment and persons of high ranks in
alk of the possibility of the Japanese-
America. France and other countries,
concerning the national policy of the
Soviet. Therefore. I am not in a posi-
of Soviet fishing grounds is a matter
the Budget Committee of the House of
Peers.
The House of Peers will op:n its
Soviet war. But. I cannot understand
tion to say anything about it. As re-
plenary session at 10 o'clock this morn-
why the situation i, so acute.
gards the public auetion system. 1 d)
ing. Continuing from previous day.
"Some say that this difficult relation
not regard it as a wise measure. I
interpellations to Ministers of State
between Japan and 1 e Soviet is main-
intend to give due consideration to the
will be conducted. Mr. Jinjiro Mizu-
ly due to the diffcrene" of their na-
matter when the fishery agreement is
no. Koyukal. will quiz the Premier,
tionality. Japan should net sever her
revised.
Home Minister and Justice Minister on
relations with: the Soviet for that rea-
Mr. Aoki: Wiat is the Government's
national defense. Mr. Jusha Tsumura,
son.
attitude toward including some repre-
Kcnkyukai. will put questions to the
Minister Hirota replied that an under
sentatives of the fishery interests in
Premier. Overs:as Minister. War Min-
standing was reached between Japan
the Government's delegation to the
ister. Foreign Minister. Navy Minister
and the Allies to have the islands an-
Soviet-Japanese conference to be call-
and Commerce Minister on Manchurian
nexed to Japan. and he expressed the
d to consider a revision of the fishery
problems and industrial control.
opinion that although Japan was forced
agreement?
The House of Repres:ntatives will
to agree to the mandate system. her
Minister Hirota: Nothing definite can
hold its budget meeting at 10 o'clock,
withdrawal from the League of Nations
be said about such a question at the
when Messrs. Sokichi Yata and Eiki-
will cause no change in her position
present time.
chi Hikita. Seiyukai members. will be
as the mandatory Power and the faet
Discuss Foundry Merger
interpellants on agricultural problems
that the islands are a part of Japan.
"The position of the Japanese Empire
Sericus Thought Needed
Peers began with interpellation of the
The morning session in the Hoise of
and emergeney relief problems.
A system of bounties to agricultural
is such." said Mr. Hirota. that it re-
Government. continued from the previ-
villages to relieve distress was urged
quires no mention of the fact that
not only the authorities but the peo-
cus day. by Mr. Mitsunoshin Kamiyama
on the merger of iron foundries into
by Mr. Masanori Katsu of the Minsei-
to. Minister Goto agreed some plan
ple as a whole should be serious-
the Government-controlled Japan Iron
of the kind would be useful. but he
ininded in dealing with the present
Foundry Ccmpany. The entire morn-
claimed a lack of funds. Thereafter
situation. We must pay serious at-
ing session was occupied with the inter-
Mr. Akira Kazami accused the Gov-
tention if we are to cross an abyss on
regatien and the answers by Baron Ku-
crnment of dilatory conduct in draft-
thin iee. but we nust not stand in
makichi Nakajima. Minister of Com-
ing a suitable plan for the lightening
undue fear.
meree and Industry.
of land taxation. The Premier said
"It is essential to enhance Japan's
The Minister took the restrum first.
the plan was under consideration, and
reputation. In order to do that. we
explaining that he would explain the
undoubtedly should be hastened. Mr.
must have conscience. It would be
method o evaluation of the merged
Goto said he believed the strengtening
very unwis, to allow an undue feel-
concerns. "because." he said. "the
of the existing system was better than
ing of unrest or suspicion to exist at
questioner had asked me to go
a change in the existing sinall- scale
home. I believe that our countiy's
through the stenographie record of
agricultural system
reputation in the werld wi!l be en-
his questions yesterday. I did so." The
management.
hanced if we hold ourselves with
Minister expressed the belief that there
Mr. Kaaami thereafter asked Rail-
justice and modcration.
was no irregularity or injustice in the
way Minister Chuzo Mitsuchi the pos-
"Th, Governmt nt has not yet work-
evaluation of the merged concerns.
sibilities of a reduction of freight
ed out any conerete plan to deal with
Mr. Kamiyama replied that Commerce
charges. receiving the reply that their
the naval ratio question. The ratio
Minister's figures were different thai.
was no possibility for a reduction
system is a new experiment and only
those he had gathered from his own
now.
about 10 years have elapsed since the
investigations. He said that the Gov-
Other speakers urged a revision of
experiment was started. it necds fur-
ernment ought to have discontinued its
the draft budget to include al propria.
ther careful study to determine whe-
effort to bring about the merger be-
tions for agricultural relief.
ther the exi erinment proves a success
cause of the lack of adequate means
or a failure. I do not think that the
of evaluation and other factors which
Far Eastern question will be brought
inclined to minimize the result of the
up at next year's conference.
merger which the Government had hop-
Study Fish Control
ed to achieve.
The Foreign Minister in the Lower
As Mr. Kamiyama closed his inter-
House later said that the advisability
pellation, Navy Minister Admiral Mineo
of ertablishin: a semi-official coneern
Osumi took the floor to reply to an
tc protect Japan's fishery rights in
interpellation by Baron Toshiatsu Saka-
rorthern waters is being studied by
moto who addressed the Government at
his office. He indicated that in view
the last session. Admiral Osumi as-

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
The Japan Advertiser
Tokyo, Thursaay, Fobruary 1, 1934.
NAVAL COMPARISONS
Ratio--0.62
Aircraft Carriers
Japan—Total holdings 5 vessels. 78.420
tons.
OF U. S., JAPAN GIVEN
U.S.A.—Total holdings 6 vessels. 131,300
tons.
Ratio—0.60
Japan—Within age limit 5 vessels. 78.420
tons,
U.S.A.—Within age limit 5 vessels. 119,800
Naval Ministry Approximates
A-Class Cruisers
Ratio—O.65
Japan—Total holdings 12 vessels. 107,800
1936 Strength In Answer to
tons.
U.S.A.—Total holdings 16 vessels, 152.650
Diet Interpellation
tons.
Ratio—0.71
Jrpan—Within age limit 12 vessels. 107.-
AGE-LIMIT SHIPS JUDGED
800 tons.
U.S.A.—Within age limit 16 vessels. 152.-
650 tons.
Ratio0.71
Admiral Osumi Insists Large
B-Class Cruisers
Japan—Total holdings 17 vessels. 98,795
Number of Old Ships in U. S.
tons.
Force Can Yet Fight
U.S.A.—Total holdings 14 vessels, 110.500
tons,
Ratio—0.89
Japan—Within age limit 17 vessels. 98.-
Rengo
795 tons.
The United States navy under pre-
U.S.A.—Within age limit 14 vessels. 110.-
500 tons,
sent limitations at the close of 1936
Ratio—0.89
would have an advantage over the
Destroyers
Japan—Total holdings 76 vessels. 105.111
Japanese navy if vessels beyond the
tons.
age limit were included. but the ratio
U.S.A —Total holdings 116 vessels. 149.400
of power within the age limit would be
tons,
Ratio--0.70
slightly in favor of Japan. according to
Japan—Within age linmit 76 vessels. 105.-
a statement issued yesterday by the
111 tons.
Navy Ministry in response to questions
U.S.A.—Within age limit 46 vessels. 67.-
360 tons.
directed in the Dict by Mr. Shinya
Ratio-1.56
Uchida of the Seiyukai. The state-
Submarine
Japan-Total holdings 35
vtssels. 52,553
ment showed an aggregate ratio of 0.68
tons.
if old vessels are included. and 0.81
U.S.A.-Total holdings 48 vessels. 52.020
if only fighting craft within the age
Ratio—1.00
Japan—Within age limit 35 vessels. 52.-
limit are counted.
553 tons.
"It must be remarked. however.
U.S.A.-Within age limit 24 vessels. 32.-
said Navy Minister Mineo Osumi's ex-
670 tons.
planation. "that the ships which out-
Ratio—1.61
ran the age limit are enlisted in the
Auxiliary Vessels
squadrons of the United States and
(Cruisers. Destroyers. Submarines)
Japan-Total holdings 140 vcssels. 364.259
war training is being applied with
tons.
squadrons thus compos d: als) that
U S A.Total holdings 194 vessels. 464.570
vessels beyond their age limit are not
tons.
in the least diminished in fighting ef-
Ratio0.78
ficieney."
Japan Within age limit 140 vessels. 364.-
Mr. Uchida had asked for compara-
259 tons.
tive figures at the close. of 1936. and
U.S A.—Within age limit 100 vessels. 363.-
180 tons.
these were supplied in writing. The
Ratio—1 00
statement includes the American
Aggregate
three-year construetion plan. 30 ves-
Japan -Total holdings. 154 vessels. 714 749
sels of which are within treaty limi-
tons.
tation. to be built with N.R.A. assign-
U.S A. -Total holdings. 215 vessels. 1.-
051.270 tons.
ments. but not the project of 102 ves-
sels-one aircraft carrier. one A-class
Japan -Within age limit. 150 vessels. 597.-
Ratio -0.68
cruiser. five B-Class cruisers. 65 de-
429 tons.
stroyers and 30 submarines-approved
U S A -Within age limit. 113 vessels. 734.-
by the House of Rei resentatives late
580 tons.
in December. Figures relative to the
Ratio-0.81
Japanese navy are inclusive of the
First Replenishment plan and also for
the Second Replenishment Plan. for
which a bill has been submitted in
the present Diet session.
The Navy Minister's tabulation fol-
lows:
Capital Ships
Japan- Total holdings 9 vessels. 272.070
tons.
U' S.A --Total holdings 15 vessels. 455.400
tons.
Ratio-0.60
Japan—Within age limlt 5 vessels. 154.750
tons.
U S A. -Within age limit 8 vesscls. 251.600
tons.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
19
The Japan Advertiser,
Tokyo, Saturuay, February
1934.
QUESTIONING IN DIET
piloting aircraft and that a plan is
under way to give similar training to
all graduates of mercantile marine
brought disgrace on the military as 
CRITICIZES DEFENSE
schools. He said, however, that the
whole. But I also wish to ask whe-
Navy Office sees no necessity of uni-
ther it is not essential to enforce a
fying army and navy air forces.
strict control of political discussions
Thereafter Premier Saito returned
among military men?"
AND FOREIGN POLICY
the reply that no plan was under way
"On the whole, I have no denial to
to join the War and Navy Offices.
make of what Mr. Hatta said," replied
Mr. Mizuno then directed his ques-
the War Minister. "Personal discus-
tions along educational lines and elimi-
sions of politics among reservists, how-
nation of expensive formalism in fune-
ever. are beyond our control. My
Diplomacy and Military Both
rals, marriages and festivals. Queries
and questions were brief.
opinion is that the criticism by the
military men of the political parties is
Blamed for Isolating Japan
No sooner had Mr. Mizuno ended
a by-blow, so to speak, of the fact that
his interrogation than Mr. Jusha Tsu-
the political situation, both at home
in Manchukuo Plans
niura of the Kenkyukai, took the floor
with new questions as to international
and abroad. greatly excites the mili-
tary mind and badly damages the mili-
relations. He said that though Japan
tary man's phase of life. We intend to
make the military men feel easy there,
MILITARY SILENCE ASKED
League of Nations idea, she was called
was one of the original friends of the
and at the same time control what
should be controlled. The political
an aggressor when she withdrew. He
parties are requcsted to co-operate with
Interpellator Urges Merger of
ed "international crisis."
added he was uneasy as to the expect-
us in that."
Mr. Hatta was also one of the prin-
War and Navy Offices for
Premier Saito replied that although
cipal interpellators during the morning
Better Air Training
Japan's utmost efforts were unsuccess-
ful in seeking the understanding of the
session. this time seeking information
on the rice price, enforcement of the
interested Powers before the with-
rice control act and disposition of sur-
FEASIBILITY IS
DENIED
tinuing its efforts in the interests of
drawal, the Government has been con-
plus rice. He asserted that the low
price of rice was chiefly responsible for
peace. The Manchurian situation. he
the misery in agricultural villages.
ir:sisted, has become better understood
The question of the rice price an-
Continued critical interrogation of
since the retirement from the League.
swered Mr. Fumio Goto. Mnister of
the War and Navy Ministers in the
Publicity Is Needed
Agriculture and Forestry. is being given
face of incrcasing expressions of re-
Also replying to Mr. Tsumura, For-
close attention by the Government and
eign Minister Koki Hirota expressed
study is being nade of means to deal
sentment by reserve officers marked
regret that Japan lacked proper pub-
with surplus rice purchased by the
Diet sessions yesterday devcted al-
licity facilities to explain her position
Government.
most entirely to discussion of Japan's
to the world. Due to conditions aris-
Mr. Seiken Katsu. Minszito urged the
present international situation. mili-
and Americans are extremely nervous
ing from the World War. Europeans
necessity of a tax increase in view
of the ¥700,000,000 in loans proposed in
tary and diplomatic.
and it is difficult, he continued. to
a total budget of Y2.100.000.000. Fin-
In a strict interpellation on defense
transmit understanding of affairs in
ance Minister Korekiyo Takahashi said
matters, in which he criticised bcth
the Far East. He was confident that
it was impossible to reveal now when
Japan's foreign policy and the military
better and better understood by other
the Manchurian situation will become
the tax increase would be effected.
Later in the day Mr. Fikichi Hikida,
authorities for her isolation as the
countries as economic development
Seiyukai. declared that Konichi Naka-
"only friend of Japan," and in which
proceeds. He said no problems exist
cka. assassin of Former Premier Hara,
he urged uniform training of the army
now to necessitate the conclusion of
who has just been released from pri-
and navy air forces. Mr. Jiniro Mizu-
no of the House of Peers drew from
a special treaty between Japan and
Manchukuo.
Questioned as to rumors that Japa-
on. was rceived on his return to
general. Mr. Hikida said such events
Tokyo "as though he was a returning
Premier Saito a statement that his
nese nationals in the service of the
have an undesirable affect on social
Govcrnment has no intention of creat-
Manchukuo Government are resentful
thought. Justice Minister Koyama ex-
ing a ministry of defense to replace
the War and Navy Ministries.
at an allegedly "high-handed attitude"
on the part of their superiors. the
War Minister replied that the director
could be taken o prevent the public
pressed r.gret. but said no legal step
from lauding Nakaoka
Mr. Eikichi Hikita of the Seiyukai
of the general affairs department of
Manchurian incident expenditures
in the afternoon meeting of the budget
the Manchukuo State Council selects
will return to normal after next year,
committee of the Lower House urged
Japanese candidates for government
War Minister Hayashi said in reply to
chukuo, the Government's foreign
ponsible. The history of the world.
competent foreign policy and "self-
necessary public talk." and according
agrcement.
policy had failed and that lack of unity
of military authorities also was res-
he amplified, shows numerous instances
that the military refrain from "un-
to Nippon Dempo, War Minister Sen-
juro Hayashi gave an expression of
tcr of obtaining recognition for Man-
of the downfall of nations through in-
Mr. Mizuno charged that. in the mat-
posts, the names then being referred
sion.
sing the hole that the Government
to the Kwantung Army for final deci-
would do its best to remove the cloud
of suspicion gathering as the result of
rumors that some important Govern-
Lower House. :aid too much publicity
statements by mil:tary men. Mr. Hiki-
ment officials had been guilty of ir-
regulariti.s.
ta. in the afternoon session of the
Mr. Tsumura concluded by expres-
Asking for more reticence in public
cultural warehousing business law will
à question directed by Mr. Hikita.
House of Peer smeets at 10 o'clock
Miyawaki. Sciyukai. will interpellate
he re,ported by committee when the
this morning. Mr. Tsumura will con-
tinue interpellation. followed by Mr.
Naohiko on thought and educational
recent school scandals. Mr. Chokichi
the Government on national defense in
the Lower House after it convenes at
problems. with particular reference to
10 o'clock. Mr. Tokusaburo Takeda,
The bill for the revision of the agri-
fascinated military." He said the army
and navy air forces might not be able
to operate efficiently unless thty were
trained by the same method.
diplonmatic organs because cf possible
influence on relations with other
was being given to various affairs and
that such matters should be left to
Seiyukai. will interrcgate on agricul-
trol and administration; Mr. Tsunejiro
ture; Mr. Hidto Ikcda. Minseito. on
ipanese-Mcnchurian economie con-
Matsuyama. Seiyukai. on colonial mat-
functions were different and they must
General Hayashi replied that their
Functions Different
not familiar with past occasions, but
countries.
General Hayashi replied that he was
ters. and Mr. Ichiro Kawano. Seiyukai.
on fficia! discipline.
be trained in different ways. thus a
that he agreed the military "should
unificaticn would be one in name only.
not say unnecessary things." He added
He judged that the interrogator was
that as the military must p rovide for
emergencies. it may find it necessary
urging amalgamation of the War and
to make public expressions to secure
Navy Offices to bring about unity in
air defense, but he said it would be
understanding concerning national de-
fense matters. although reference to
impossible to make every officer of the
other intcrnational problems should be
army capable of handling aircraft.
Navy Minister Mineo Osumi explain-
avoided.
Mr. Sokichi Hatta. Seiyukai. began
ed that students of the Naval Academy
are all trained for a short time in
interpellation.
"As a former officer." he said. "I
life soldiers. The attack on Premier
Inukai by uniformed military men

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
The Japan Advertiser,
Tokyo, Friday, February z, 1934.
Diet Speaker Claims
Saito Asked to Quit
By Retired Generals
In a session of the Diet marked
by blunt suggestions of members
that r:ilitary men were dabbling too
much in politics and talking :00
freely in public, and at a time when
the Meirinkai, organization of re-
:erve officers. as vigorously at-
tacking the political parties through
published statements. Mr. Fukichi
Hikida, Seivukai, ycsterday said in
the Lo:er Hous? that he understood
several retired generals recently cal-
Icd on P'rcmier Sai'o and asked him
to rsign Mr. Hikida sald such ac-
ticas :rt:d to alienate the military
from civili ns.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advertiser,
Tokyo, Friday, Fabruary z. 1934.
DIET ATTACK AGAINST MILITARY
AIMS AT RESTORING PARTY RULE
Joint Attack by Political Parties is Doubtful of Yield-
ing any Results Beyond Demonstration
By DR. S. WASHIO
Special to The Japan Advertiser
Despite Premier Saito's warning not
been prized by the political parties as
to provoke the military given to the
much as the so-called Supreme Com-
presidents of both political parties, the
mand provision in the constitution has
been prized by the military.
present session of the Diet made a
Dr. Ogawa took advantage of this law
joint attack on the military a special
to condemn the military's interference
feature of its first week. The motive of
in politics in general. It had the
the attack was plain cnough. Ever
strategical advantage of putting the
since the incident of May 15, 1932 the
military technically on the defensive.
political parties have been in such dis-
Both the War and Navy Ministers re-
repute that neither the suggestion of
plied that military men had the right
electoral reform nor a movement for
to be interested in political problems
party purification has had any effect
in so far as they bear on the interests
in redeeming their lost prestige. Es-
of national defense. That rather
pecially they have been cowed by
strengthened the military's position,
the influence of the military. But since
but Dr. Ogawa's object was for the
last fall the idea has been developing
sake of putting the military on the
among party men that the best way
defensive.
to defend is to attack. Various party
coalition movements have been afoot
Uehida's Interpellation
for that end and at the same time
Then came Mr. Uchida's interpella-
freedom of speech has been advocated.
tion on naval expenditure. With the
The internal conditions of both par-
irrefutable evidence of the naval
ties and their inherent rival habits
budget for next year, he criticized
have made party coalition a remote
Premier Saito's observations in the
possibility. but the past gropings have
last session of the Diet that the naval
shown that the bulk of the Seiyukai
expenditure in future would decrease.
and the Minseito can at least unite
He also challenged the Navy Minister
against the common enemy. It ap-
to contradict his assertion that the
pears that they were agreed to de-
navy budget will rise at least to
monstrate this in the Diet. which is
Y600,000,000 in 1936. His interpellation
exclusively their domain. In launch-
had an informative value and. in so
ing this attack on the military. the
far as it put both the Premier and
political parties had not the slightest
the Navy Minister on the defensive.
intention of changing the budget, but
the assertive appearance of the Diet
merely sought to assert themselves.
was vindicated, but in substance the
Hence the attack was princip ally on
increase in the naval expenditure has
such futile and embarrassing subjects
rather been confirmed than criticized
as the declaration the army and navy
by his interpellation.
made some time ago against "a cer-
These assertive demonstrations of the
tain attempt to alienate the people
political parties lested hardly a week
from the military" and the military's
when it became apparent that further
interference in politics.
provocation of the military would 1ro-
duce a reaction outside the Diet that
Parliamentary Offensive
vouki be disadvantageous to the poli-
The parliamentary offensive was
tical parties. Both parties have there-
opened by Mr. Tokonami. who em-
fore, decided not to make any further
phasized the national development of
attacks on the military. The Minseito.
the political parties as the basis of
in particular, has decided not to take
parliamentarism and the need for
up even the veiled suggestion of the
party co-operation in facing such cri-
Navy Minister that that party was
tieal years as are now before this
(hiefly responsible for the London
country. He discreetly omitted any
Naval Treaty.
reference to the military. but the im-
In the beginning of the second week
plication was clear. In vindicating
the temper of the Diet began to turn
parliamentarism with the political
against alleged scandalous dealings in
I arties as the basis. Mr. Tokonami
the sale of the Tcikoku Rayon shares
was seconded by Mr. Machida re-
held by the Taiwan Bank and shares of
presenting the Minseito. So far the
the Kobe Iron Work and also to the
military were not explicitly provoked.
amalgamation of steel and iron busi-
But these two reserved represcntative
nesses. in all of which Mr. Nakajima,
speeches were followed by avowedly
Minister of Industry and Commerce, is
provocative interpellations by lesser
chiefly associated. Here the Diet has
men in both parties. Mr. Ando of
sunk to its usual level of scandalous
the Seiyukai took up especially the
exposures. but this time the exposure
notorious declaration. It had been
is in the name of political purification
foreseen that if this question was
by the political parties of the non-
taken up at all the Diet would in-
party Cabinet that has to come into
evitably go into secret session which
existence with the avowed mission of
would needlessly increase the suspicion
checking the corrup tion in party poli-
of national disunity. That is just the
tics.
point of the criticism of the political
The first weck's attack on the mili-
parties. We remember that at the
tary was bound to be ephemeral and
time of the Tanaka Ministry the Diet
as Premier Saito warned. it would
increased the bad effect of "a certain
have been rather injurious to the in-
grave incident in Manchuria" by tak-
terests of the political parties them-
ing it up for no other purpose than
selves if overdone. but the second
domesiic politics. The present case is
week's attack on the discipline of the
another instance of abusing the
Saito Cabinet. if pressed seriously
strategical advantage the Diet pos-
erough. has the possibility of leading
sesses. The military's shyness on the
to a political change. But to I reci-
subject is taken advantage of. Strate.
p.tate a political change during this
gically it serves the interest of the
session of the Diet can hardly be the
political parties since a sense of dis-
ir.tention of cither of the political

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
peclany they have been cowed by
strengthened the military's position.
the influence of the military. But since
but Dr. Ogawa's object was for the
last fall the idea has been developing
sake of putting the military on the
among party men that the best way
defensive.
to defend is to attack. Various party
coalition movements have been afoot
Uchida's Interpellation
for that end and at the same time
Then came Mr. Uchida's interpella-
freedom of speech has been advocated.
tion on naval expenditure. With the
The internal conditions of both par-
irrefutable evidence of the naval
ties and their inherent rival habits
budget for next year, he criticized
have made party coalition a remote
Premier Saito's observations in the
possibility, but the past gropings have
last session of the Diet that the naval
shown that the bulk of the Seiyukai
expenditure in future would decrease.
and the Minseito can at least unite
He also challenged the Navy Minister
against the common enemy. It ap-
to contradict his assertion that the
pears that they were agreed to de-
navy budget will rise at least to
monstrate this in the Diet. which is
¥600,000,000 in 1936. His interpellation
exclusively their domain. In launch-
had an informative value and, in so
ing this attack on the military, the
far as it put both the Premier and
political parties had not the slightest
the Navy Minister on the defensive,
intention of changing the budget, but
the assertive appearance of the Diet
merely sought to assert themselves.
was vindicated, but in substance the
Hence the attack was principally on
increase in the naval expenditure has
such futile and embarrassing subjects
rather been confirmed than criticized
as the declaration the army and navy
by his interpellation.
made some time ago against "a cer-
These assertive demonstrations of the
tain attempt to alienate the people
political parties lested hardly a week
from the military" and the military's
when it became apparent that further
interference in politics.
provocation of the military would pro-
Parliamentary Offensive
duce a reaction outside the Diet that
would be disadvantageous to the poli-
The parliamentary offensive was
tical parties. Both parties have there.
opened by Mr. Tokonami, who em-
fore, decided not to make any further
phasized the national development of
attacks on the military. The Minseito.
the political parties as the basis of
in particular, has decided not to take
parliamentarism and the need for
up even the veiled suggestion of the
party co-operation in facing such cri-
Navy Minister that that party was
tical years as are now before this
chiefly responsible for the London
country. He discrcetly omitted any
Naval Treaty.
reference to the military, but the im-
In the beginning of the second week
plication was clear. In vindicating
the temper of the Diet began to turn
parliamentarism with the political
against alleged scandalous dealings in
Parties as the basis. Mr. Tokonami
the sale of the Teikoku Rayon shares
was seconded by Mr. Machida re-
held by the Taiwan Bank and shares of
presenting the Minseito. So far the
the Kobe Iron Work and also to the
military were not explicitly provoked.
amalgamation of steel and iron busi-
But these two reserved representative
nesses, in all of which Mr. Nakajima,
speeches were followed by avowedly
Minister of Industry and Commerce, is
provocative interpellations by lesser
chiefly associated. Here the Diet has
men in both parties. Mr. Ando of
sunk to its usual level of scandalous
the Seiyukai took up especially the
exposures, but this time the exposure
notorious declarotion. It had been
is in the name of political purification
foreseen that if this question was
by the political parties of the non-
taken up at all the Diet would in-
party Cabinet that has to come into
evitably go into secret session which
existence with the avowed mission of
would needlessly increase the suspicion
checking the corruption in party poli-
of national disunity. That is just the
tics.
point of the criticism of the political
The first week's attack on the mili-
parties. We remember that at the
tary was bound to be ephemeral and
time of the Tanaka Ministry the Diet
as Premier Saito warned, it would
increased the bad effect of "a certain
have been rather injurious to the in-
grave incident in Manchuria" by tak-
terests of the political parties them-
ing it up for no other purpose than
selves if overdone, but the second
domesiic politics. The present case is
week's attack on the discipline of the
another instance of abusing the
Saito Cabinet, if pressed seriously
strategical advantage the Diet pos-
enough, has the possibility of leading
sesses. The military's shyness on the
to a political change. But to preci-
subject is taken advantage of. Strate.
pitate a political change during this
gically it serves the interest of the
session of the Diet can hardly be the
political parties since a sense of dis-
irtention of cither of the political
cretion compels the military to remain
parties. All they are aiming at is a
on the defensive.
denionstration that political purifica-
Following Mr. Ando. Dr. Ogawa of
tion is not the monooly of a non-
the Minseito took up the question of
party government.
military interference in politics. That
The first assertive demonstration was
the military, particularly in this coun-
attempted at the expense of the mili-
try, has a great political influence and
tary, the second at the expense of the
interferes in one way or another with
non-party Cabinet. whose shelter the
political developments is common
political parties have so far been com_
sense. It is futile to debate it. but it
pelled to seek. Their ultimate aim is
is an embarrassing subject to the
obviously the return to party govern-
military because the laws of the army
taent. but it is very doubtful if this
and navy themselves prohibit military
double demonstration will make any
men from engaging in politics. The
real contribution to that end. It has
prohibition is made in general words;
been a demonstration only possible on
it does not st ecify the kinds of poli-
the floor of the Diet. Elsewhere a
tica! activities that are prohibited. It
latent reaction might have been
is so vague that even General Araki's
stronger. Beside if this development
advocacy of national policy, particular-
were put to a closer test the innate
ly his ineursion into the problems of
rivalry between the two parties might
domestic polities outside of his do-
casily spoil the geme.
main, such as the agrarian problem.
might be interpretted as coming within
this prohibition. Although no explicit
criticism of his activities in this sense
has ever been made. it has been patent
that the political parties have been
feeling resentful regarding the mili-
tary's interference in politics. At any
rate this prohibition of the military has

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.99)
#20
The Hoohi
Translated by the Japan Advebtiser
Tokyo, Friday, February 2, 1934.
Mr. Karl Radek, in an article entitled
"No Change Far Eastern Front" in an
official organ, refuses to see any change
in the foreign policy of Japan. We
might dismiss this as Soviet propa-
ganda, but we cannot so dismiss the
speech made by Mr. Molotov, president
of the Council of People's Commissars,
before the congress of the Communist
Party, in which he stressed the need
of strengthening defenses in the Far
East. The speech made by Mr. Stalin,
secretary-general of the executive
committee of the Communist Party,
made on the same occasion, was equal-
ly unsatisfactory. He dwelt on the.
tension in relations between Japan and
the Soviet Union and spoke as though
he had little confidence in Japan's
policy. It is impossible for us not to
be conccrned over these utterances, for
they indicate that Japan's policy of
co-operation with foreign countries is
not understood in the U.S.S.R. and
Hirota Not Comprehended
that the Soviets regard it dangerous
HOCHI
to act in unison with Japan.
There are reasons assignable for the
The speech made by Mr. Koki Hirota.
inability of foreign countries to under-
the Foreign Minister. before the Diet
stand Mr. Hirota's policy. Chief among
at the re-opening of its session ap-
them is that it connotes a radical de-
parently is not throughly understood
parture from that of his predecessor.
by foreign countries. The Minister said
The change is so abrupt that foreign
that Japan's foreign policy is based on
countries are at a loss to know what
co-operation with other countries. He
to do about it. They would have put
made it plain that Japan will deal
trust in what Mr. Hirota said had he
with foreign countries in a spirit of ac-
followed it up with suitable actions.
commodation.
But how can Japan embark on a pro-
Mr. Hirota's policy differs from that
gram of co-operation while other
followed by his predecessor. Count
countries are unwilling to co-opcrate
Yasuya Uchida. Count Uchida's policy
with it and while they are indulging in
was deliberate. He would see Japan go
provocative utterances?
to rack and ruin rather than sacrific?
Here is a word of advice to the
its vital interests. But there is noth-
Japanese authorities. There is no need
ing strange in this change in foreign
for them to be in a hurry to seek to
poliey. The international situation has
act in accord with other countries.
itself undergone a marked change since
They may co-operate by degrees as the
Count Uchide was at the head of the
ether countries come to understand
foreign administration. The situation
Japan's intentions. A policy to pro-
which confronted Japan while he was
mote friendship that does not take
in office was abnormal, and an abnormal
into accord the attitude of others to-
policy is required to deal with an
ward Janan is liable to degenerate
abnormal situation, such as was broughi
into a subs.rvient policy.
about by the Manchurian incident. As
normal conditions are being restored in
the Far East. it is only naturad for
Japan's diplomacy to be restored 1,
normal
We are in general agreement with
the poliey enunciated by Mr. Hirota in
his Diet speech. It is the right sort of
poliey to be adepted by Japan in it
present cireumstances. when Mr. Hirota
made his speech. we dosired that its
spirit be appreeiated abrond. Unfor-
tunately, foreign comment on the spe ech
is what we feared. It makes it clear
that Japan must make further efforts.
to have its intentions understood to
other countries.
Opinion in the United State, and
Great Britain regards Mr. Hirota.
sptech with favor. This does not mean
that there is confidence in Mr. Hirota's
policy in these countries. The com-
ment. although favorable. is not so
unrescrved as it should be.
As for the manner in which the So-
viet Union has received the speech.
it leaves much to be desired. Its
leaders are not only not satisfied but
ave adopted a challenging attitude.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
21
The Mishi-Michi
Trammlated by the Japan Aavertiser
Tokyo, Saturday, February 3, 19:4.
Yoshizawa Encourages Hirota
NICHI NICHI
The questions put by Mr. Kenkichi
Yoshizawa, former Foreign Minister
and leading member of the Seiyukai.
to Foreign Minister Koki Hirota on
questions of foreign policy in the
House of Peers the other day and the
Ministers replies were very informing.
They served to diminish the anxiety
which is felt by the pople about the
future 1osition of their country in in-
ternational politics.
Mr. Yoshizawa dwelt at length on
the international position of Japan.
Regarding the coming Washington naval
conference, he said that Japan is en-
titled to a higher naval ratio with
America and gave the reasons for
demanding upward revision of the ratio
granted in the London and Washing-
ton naval treaties. He urged on the
Government the necessity of making
diplomatic efforts toward the conclu-
sion of agreements with foreign coun-
tries in this matter.
The Japanese-Soviet situation recelv-
ed a large share of the attention of the
former Foreign Minister. He deplored
the alarmist rumors about future re-
lations between Japan and the Soviet
Union and declared that he could see
nothing about which the two must
fight. He said in effect that the best
interests of Japan demand that every.
thing should be avoided by the Gov-
erninent and people which would caus
misunderstanding in foreign countries.
Mr. Yoshizawa favored stregthening
of national defense. But in the same
breath insisted that diplomatic efforts
should not be neglected.
Mr. Yoshizawa's speech was in per-
feet accord with the statements of
I olicy which have been repeatedly made
by Foreign Minister Hirota. Thus the
speech may be taken as an attempt
to encourage the Foreign Minister in
his policy.
It is easy to see the impression Mr.
Yoshizawa wanted to convey. It is
that Japan must try to improve its
international position by diplomatic
means. It was in the nature of things
that the Foreign Minister expressed
complete agreement with the viws of
his interpellator. In the course of his
reply. he warned the people against
worrying too much about the future
of their country. The Minister said
that worries harm nations as to in-
dividuals. He repeated in different
language what he had said earlier in
deprecating the tendency for a section
of the public to talk about the 1935-36
crisis.
The guiding principle of Mr. Hirota's
policy is that Japan must act in ac-
cordance with the the dictates of justice
and that it must keep within bounds,
Guided by this principle. Japan may
hope to surmount the obstacles that
lie in its way.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
22
The Japan Advertiser
Tokyo, Saturaay, February 3, 1934.
NEED OF CLARIFYING
"The Governor-General of the Kwan-
tung Leased Territory is an administ-
JAPAN'S POSITION IN
rative official there, while the same man,
the Commander of the Kwantung
Army, is a military officer appointed
under the Supreme Command," Mr.
MANCHURIA PRESSED
Ikeda pursued. "Is it not objectlon-
able that the two important posts, of
widely different nature, be held by
the same person?"
"I also consider that the plural-office
Minseito Diet Member Points to
system is objectionable," answered
War Minister Senjuro Hayashi. "but
Ambiguities of Japanese-
it is considered advisable in view of
the present condition in Manchuria."
Manchukuo Relations
Mr. Ikeda, persisting, asked if it is
not advisable to relieve the Command.
er of the Kwantung Army of his ad-
MILITARY AGAIN CRITICISED
ditional posts "for the sake of Man-
chukuo and the Army as well as for
Japan."
" was of that opinion before I took
Matter of Charges by Reserv-
the post of War Minister," said Gen-
ists Against Political Parties
eral Hayashi. At present, however, I
am carefully studying the matter
Comes Up in Session
from every angle because of my
heavy responsibility."
"But," the interpellater went on.
OBJECT TO POLITICAL ACTS
"from the viewpoint of Japan-Man-
chukuo relations, the Commander of
the Kwantung Army is a stern father,
Demand for clarification of alleged
while the Ambassador to that state is
a tender mother. Since the functions
ambiguities in Japan's relation to Man-
are so different, I consider it impos-
churia, including the system by which
sible for one person to occupy the two
one Japanese Army general serves as
posts consistently and well.
Governor-General of the Kwantung
Foreign Minister Koki Hirota an-
Leased Territory. Commander of the
swered. saying that he held the opin-
ions of the Premier and the War Min-
Kwantung Army and Ambassador to
ister.
Manchukuo. was voiced insistently in
Wants Clarification
the Lower House of the Diet yester-
"At a time when Manchukuo is
day by Mr. Hideo Ikeda, member of
about to realize constitutional monar-
the Minseito.
chy. I believe Japan should clarify
It was another day in which Cabinet
her attitude a little more toward Man-
Ministers were called on to answer
chukuo." stated Mr. Ikeda.
many critical queries on matters relat-
"Giving full consideration to the
ing to the military.
independence of Manchukuo, Govern-
Another Lower House interpellater.
ment authorities are devoting their best
Mr. Chokichi Miyawaki of the Seiyu-
efforts to every problem." Mr. Hirota
kai, brought up the question of dic-
replied.
tatorship when he said "It may appear
"As regards police administration in.
to the people that some are trying to
Manchuria." the interpellater continu-
seize the military power and the poli-
ed. "the Japanese Embassy is recently
tical power exclusively if the present
(Continued on Page S)
tendency of military men's participa-
tion in political discussions is allowed
to follow its course." Open reference
was made in the House of Peers to re-
cent vigorous complaints of military
reservists that the political parties
were attempting to alienate the civil
population from the army and navy,
the speaker declaring that the military
men were mistaken.
Complaint was made, also in the
House of Peers. that military cireles
had revealed the plan of the South
Manchurian Railway Company re-
organization before civil officia's con-
cerned knew anything about it. and
that investors subsequetly
become
frightened.
Claims Inconsistency
Asking whether the Government has
any intention of reforming the tem-
porary system of relationship between
Japan and Manchukuo. M:. Ikeda eli-
cited the reply from Premier Saito
that the present is not the proper
time for immediate reform.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.99)
control of that field, but that the Gov-
ernment possibly erred by overvaluing
the properties of privately-owned con-
cerns, which, he said might have
caused large loss to the nation.
The interpellater urged that the Gov-
crnment increase active assistance to
water utilization associations in Korea.
roported to have entrusted the gen-
He asked as to the poasibility of sub-
darmerie of the Kwantung Army with
sidies for the erection of reservoirs.
consular police ndninistration, with
Nagal Makes Reply
the chief of the police bureau cf the
Replying to a query of the previous
Kwantung Government as advisor.
day, Premier Saito then announced
What is the reason for the change?"
that there was no other reason than
To which the Foreign Minister re-
that of ill health for the recent resig-
turncd, "Peace maintenance from the
nation of General Sadao Araki as War
viewpoint cf the army and peace main-
Minister.
tenance from the viewpoint of national
To Mr. Tsumura's question as to the
life cannot be separated there today.
South Manchuria Railway, Overseas
It is considered necessary to unite them
Minister Ryutaro Nagai said he thought
for the time being."
the announcement of Dairen military
"I think the plan inadvisable in view
the excellent purpose of providing a
circles as to the reorganization served
of the example set in Korea at the
reference for the final stages of the
time of the Terauchi Ministry." Mr.
work. Both Mr. Nagai and War Min-
Ikeda declared, receiving the answer
ister Hayashi said there were no in-
from the War Minister that the two
dications of a movement to suppress in-
instances wcre dissimilar.
vestments in Manchuria, the War Min-
The interpellater said that in ordcr
ister adding that, as peace and order
to ccoperate with Manchukuo, the mis-
must be maintained in Manchuria by
sion of the South Manchuria Railway
the military, it was inevitable that the
Company is important. but still the
military must control some of the cco-
railroad was only at the halfway mark
nomic machinery.
in fulfilling its mission for the national
A spokesman for the Ministry of
defense and exploitation of Manchurian
Commerce and Industry assured Mr.
industries.
Tsumura that it was erroneous to say
"As a whole I agrce with you," re-
that authorities had estimated the pro-
plied Overseas Minister Nagai. "Con-
perty of the Government-owned Ya-
sidering the importance of that m's-
wata Iron Works at a lower level than
sion. the company carried out ar in-
similar private concerns.
crease in capital last autunn.'
Wants Official Integrity
Wants Military Reform
When Mr. Tsumura concluded an In-
After expressing concern over a pos-
terpellation of nearly two days by ex-
sible attempt at dictatorship. Mr. Miya-
pressing the hope that authorities
waki urged the military authorities to
would exercise care in the matters he
take advantage of the recen change in
had mentioned. Mr. Nachiko Seki of
War Ministers to effect internal reform.
the Dowakai took the rostrum to inter-
declaring that otherwise the military.
pellate the Government on the issue of
which has been enjoying strong na-
discipline among high public officials.
tional support since the outbreak of
He brought up at once the recent
the Manehurian ineident, may become
charges of military men that the pol-
the object of public resentment.
itical paties were attempting to ali-
He continued that military men be-
cnate the civilian population from the
lieve they may indulge in politics in
military. He declared the belief that,
spite of Imperial commands to the con-
dest ite rumors. the nation is united.
trary. The interpellater criticized Pre-
and the military authorities should
mier Saito and former War Minister
not be misled by such reports, but
Araki for the participation of the lat-
should confine themselves to their
ter in last fall's Cabinet conferences
duties.
on domestic policy.
Encourageiment of patriotic senti-
War Minister Hayashi answered that
ment among young officers and former
there is not the slightest possibility of
service men. he went on. inevitably
military men in active service attemt-
makes thcm polities-conscious to some
ing to scize political power.
extent. and it was similarly inevitable
The interpellater asked whether the
that political groups should raise their
Government is prepared to propose
voices against the military to a cer-
positively the abolition of offensive
arms at the next disarmament confer-
tain degree. but those are matters of
ence. Navy Minister Mineo Osumi
only minor import. he insisted. re-
said that measures regarding the con-
sembling the squabbles of children
ference are now being studied but that
that pass as quickly as they arise.
no conclusion has been reached. He
Mr. Seki dwelt at length on involve.
added that he believed every nation
ment of Government officials in fi-
should be satified with armaments
nancial deals. and urged the necessity
sufficient for defense only.
of strict supervision to see that no
Plyku? Last Ad DIET
irregularities are committed. Premier
Saito and Overseas Minister Nagai as-
Warehouse Bill Studied
sured him that strict control would be
The House of Peers opened its ses-
exercised where 1ossible.
sion by passing on first reading the
The House of Peers will not be in
Government bill revising the Agricul-
session today.
tural Warehouse Law. the session then
In tho lower House. Mr. Motojiro
hearing a criticim of secret diplomacy
Sugiyama of the Socizl Mass party will
by Mr. Shigeya Tsumura of the Ken-
interpellate on social and agricultural
kyukai.
problems. Mr. Tsuguo Nakamura. Ko-
Suggesting that the Government deal
kumin Domei. on the iron foundry
more openly in diplomatic affairs. he
merger. and several others will con-
said the plan for the reorganization of
tinue the interrogation on national de-
the South Manchurian Railway Com-
fense. Comumittees will receive Govern-
pany was made public by military men
mnt bills for revision of the Formosan
"before the Ministry of Overseas Af-
business loan law. revision of the
fairs was aware of the existenee of such
governmental railway supplies fund
a plan." The speaker declared that
special accounting law and for the
tended to cause financial disturbance
abolition of the government iron
as the rtsult of the anxiety it aroused
foundry special account.
among inve ;tors in the railway.
Mr. Tsumura expressed doubt as to
the advisability of transferring control
of the system from civil autohorities of
the Kwantung Army command.
He turned next to the merger of iron
works into a Government-controlled
concern. advancing the opinion that the
purpose was plausible enough in view
of the advisability of state industrial

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.99)
23
The Nioni-Hichi
Translated by the Japan Advertiser
Tokyo, Sunday, February 4, 1934.
Japan to Ask Equality
It must be remembered that the
NICHI NICHI
Washington naval treaty was framed to
meet a temporary situation. It rest-
Japan indicated its intention to ask
ricted the existing strength of the
for a new naval ratio at the second
countries concerned. As it was not
Washington conference in the pro-
based on the priciple of equality, it
posals which it offered at the general
lacked permanency. But this is not the
disarmament conference in Geneva in
only argument that can be adduced
December, 1932. From the speeches
in support of the contention that there
made by Mr. Naotake Sato, one of
should be a change in Japan's ratio.
Japan's delegates to the conference, it
Another argument, equally powerful,
was made clear that Japan intends to
is the change which has occurred in
demand cquality in defensive arma-
the international situation since the
signing of the Washington treaty.
ments. Further light on the policy
We do not know exactly what policy
to be followed by Japan at the naval
Japan will follow at the coming con-
gathering has been shed by the re-
ference, but we are certain that Japan
plies of Foreign Minister Hirota and
will ask for equality in defensive arma-
Navy Minister Osumi to interpella-
ments and a new naval ratio. The
tions in both Houses of the Diet.
proposals made by Japan at the gen-
Speaking in the House of Peers on
eral disarmament conference in Gen-
January 31, Foreign Minister Hirota
eva in December. 1932. show the ex-
indicated, though indirectly, that
tent to which it desires disarmament.
Japan is opposed to the idea of ratios.
As Navy Minister Osumi pointed out in
Speaking in the House of Representa-
the Diet, under the Japanese program
tives on January 25, Navy Minister
the five most heavily armed countries
Osumi referred to the Japanese pro-
would be able to save more than 1,-
posals laid before the general dis-
000,000 tons. The question is whether
armament conference in Geneva.
the other countries understand the dis-
Under the proposals, he said, there
armament policy of this country em-
would be a 70 per cent cut in capital
bodied in the proposals laid before the
hirs and an 80 per cent cut in first-
Geneva conference.
class cruisers. As for other ships, the
As Government spokesmen have
Minister explained that th: Powers
pointed out on several occasions, the
would be able to build a many as
policy of Japan is for maintenance of
they required within limits , e fixed
the peace of the world. The man res-
by agreement. The Minister ocld not
ponsible for the naval defense of the
tell whether the proposals w lid be
country tells us that there is not the
insisted on by Japan at the coming
slightest intention on the part of the
naval conference. saying that the
Japanese authorities to provoke other
matter was receiving the earnest at-
countrics and that they are deter-
tontion of the authorities concerned.
mined to rely on peaceful means to
Both the Forcign Minister and the
settle problems which stand in the way
Navy Minister made similar remarks
of co-operation between Japan and
in answering questions in the budget
other countries.
comnittee of the Lower House the
According to reports, the American
other day.
authorities are studying the possibil-
Now there is not the slightest doubt
ities of negotiations with Japan in pre-
that the Government is firmly resolv-
paration for the 1935 conference. This
ed ask for a new naval ratio at the
is a reminder of the importance of the
conference scheduled to take place next
coming conference. We sincerely hope
vear. and there is nothing remarkable
that not only Japan but every other
in this. More than 10 years elaps-
nation coneerned will act with every
ed since the Washington naval treaty
circumspection in shaping their policies.
was signcd. Much has happened dur-
ing the interval. A demand for a new
naval ratio is the natural result of the
progress made by Japan since it un-
dertook to restrict its naval armaments
at the Washington conference.
Every independent nation has a right
to equality in armaments. As a mat-
ter of principle. disarmament should
be voluntary. The circumstances of
one nation differ from those of an-
other. To bar a nation from building
the defenses which are necessitated by
circumstances is not disarnament in
the true sense of the word. A nation
or a group of nations has no right to
dictate to another nation or another
group of nations in the matter of ar-
maments.

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
24
The Hochi
Translated by the Japan Advertiser
Tokyo, Sunday, Febryary 4, 1934.
Diet Politics Picking Up
HOCHI
The Diet is regaining its former pre-
stige. Even those who used to abhor
Diet politics are beginning to see it
in a new light and to admire the
stand of the Diet against the various
weaknesses of the Government. This
fair attitude is increasing. So far in
the present session there has been only
one unpleasant incident, the interpel-
lation by a Seiyukai member about
the London naval treaty and the
naval replenishment program. which
.was unpleasant because the aim
seemed to be to put the Minseito
in a bad light. It was like the speech
of Dr. Kisaburo Suzuki. president of
the Seiyukai, on the London naval
treaty last fall, which made much
trouble for the party. An attitude of
this nature only affords a good (x-
cuse for outsiders to attack the politi-
cal parties. The parties need to com-
bine against their common enemy in-
stead of quarreling among themselves.
The Minseito have shown themselves
wise by avoiding entanglement in the
interpellation of the Seiyukai member.
It is to be hoped that the favorable
atmosphere of the Diet will continue
throughout the session.
The best thing that the Diet has done
so far is its correction of the general
notion that there is an emergency that
will reach its crisis in 1935 and 1936.
The Cabinet Ministers and Diet mem-
bers have agreed that Japan's inter-
naticnal difficulties must be :olved by
peaceful means. This is a very good
policy. and it should favorably im-
press the Powers. No one in the pres-
ent session has advocated the precipi-
ate policy of Count Yasuya Uchida.
the former Foreign Minister. Sound
commonsense is taking the place of the
extreme ideas that carried everything
before them a ycar ago.
Credit is also due to the Diet for
the manner in which the iron merger
has been discussed. This does not
mean, however, that the Minister of
Commerce and Industry, Baron Kuma-
kichi Nakajima. has been reasonable.
That is something else again. What
we mean is that the actions of a limit-
ed few were criticized. It has been
charged that the interpellation by Mr.
Mannoshin Kamiyama in the House of
Peers lacked substance. It would not
be fair to expect him to deliver an
impeachment speech. however, for the
facts of the merger issue have not yet
been clarified. There is no need for
impeachment at this nioment. Wha*
we want is clarification of what has
taken place. Only as a last resort
should judgment be passed on Baron
Nakajima as a State Minister. For
the Diet to launch reckless attacks
merely for the sake of attacking
would invite loss of credit.
We are satisfied with the atitudes of
Foreign Minister Koki Hirota and War
Minister General Senjuro Hayashi. Mr.
Hirota has done well to express his
views without the least sign of cater-
ing to the public. General Hayashi
has answered questions simply but
i clearly.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
The Japen Advertiser.
Tokyo, Sunday, February 4, 1934.
GOVERNMENT GIVES
Nos. of
Prefectures
banks
Deposits
Loans
(In ¥1,000)
Hokkaido
7
99,428
64.451
STATISTICS TO DIET
Miyagi
5
87,587
68,758
Saitama
15
87.538
55.449
Tokyo
29
4.597.567
3.738,356
Niigata
18
177,614
148.010
Toyama
23
114.338
103,719
Shizuoka
29
218.454
160.472
Alchi
22
390.419
199,941
Reports on Secret Funds Allot-
Osaka
27
2,441,450
1,436,762
Hyogo
45
238,714
167,288
ted to Each Ministry in
Okayana
4
127,808
81,964
Hiroshima
6
129.462
62,244
1934.35 Budgt
Yamaguchi
6
96.120
34.235
Ehime
13
85.579
63.844
Fukuoka
33
97,906
75,877
ANALYZES SALARY FIGURES
The Government has also made pub-
lic a report on amount of Japanese
securities in foreign currencies, for-
cign securities, overseas deposits and
Shows Japanese Holdings of
loans on October 1, 1933. The report
Securities in Foreign Curren-
is also for the Diet. Details follow:
Japanese Securities in Foreign
cies, Deposits Abroad
Currencies
Held
Held
at home abroad
Total
—(In V1,000)-
Many kinds of statisties are prepsred
National bonds ...264.378
283,900
548.278
each year by the Government for the
Prefectural
bonds. 21,706
18.766
40.472
Diet, because Diet menbers ask for
Debentures
85.789
28.531
114.320
exact figures on matters coneerning
Total
.371,873
331.197
703,070
Government business. At the request
Foreign Securitles
of the plenary budget committee of
Held
Held
the Diet. the Government has made
at home abroad
Total
-(In Y1.000)
public the anount of salaries, bonuses
National bonds
12.618
227.828
240.446
and allowances paid Governnent of-
Prefectural bonds
239
13.052
13,291
ficials and employes for the 1931-32
Debentures
1.527
24.946
26.473
fiscal year. Bonuses to Government
Stocks
38.780
39.984
78.764
offcials have been discussed by the
Total
53.164
305.810
358.974
Diet in connection with the financial
Overseas deposits of Japan totaled
Y242,853.000 and the outstanding bal-
depression.
According to the report. the bonus
ance of loans totaled Y142.105,000.
and solatium payment for the year
At the request of the plenary budget
committee the Government has made
under review amounted to ¥25,583.000.
or 15.1 per ent of salary list. Details
publie the figures on secret funds al-
lotted to various Ministries for the 1934-
follow:
35 fiscal year. The amount is ¥13.-
Bonus and Per-
814,800. of which Y12.683,000 comes from
Salary solatium centage
general accounts and ¥1.131,000 from
Ministrics
(In Y1.000)
Foreign
2.530
138
5.5
special accounts. The War Ministry is
Home
11,303
1.195
132
given the largest amount of Y7.334.000.
Finance
12.398
2.506
20.2
of which ¥7.060,000 is to be employed
War
40.938
4.619
111
for the Manchurian incident. Details
Navy
32.756
3.149
96
of secret funds distributed to differ-
Justice
14.629
1.491
10.2
ent Ministries follow:
Education
15.266
1.656
10.8
General Accounts
Agriculture
4.550
1.117
24.6
Foreign Office
12.558.568
Commerce
2.617
720
275
Hom Ministry
822,232
Communications
7.292
2.082
24.6
Finance Ministry
47.475
Rallways
Overseas Affairs
24.544
229
6521
51
26.6
223
Navy Ministry
War Ministry
7.334,405
1.713,300
Tetal
169,058
25.583
151
Justice Ministry
130.654
The Government also announced for
Overseas Ministry
46.550
the Diet its statisties on banking in
Total
12.683,181
Japan Proper. Formosa and Karafuto
Special Accounts
at the end of 1933. The number of
Monopoly Bureau
803
ordinary
and savings
Communications enterprises
18.965
December 31. 1933. was 601. with
Korean Government-Gent ral
Imperial Railways
614.578
27.410
aggregate
deposits of ¥10.552.571.000
Formosan Government-General
203.590
and aggregate loans of Y6.694,029.000.
Kwantung Government
239.321
Of these. ordinary banks numbered
Karafuto Government
19,580
516, with deposits of Y8,727.313,000 and
Mandated South Seas Gove rnment
7.480
loans of Y6.344.070,000. and aving
Total
1.131.757
banks 85. with deposits of Y1.825,-
258,000 and loans of Y349.959.000. Prin-
cipal prefectures were:

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advertiser
26
Tokyo, Sunday, February 4, 1934.
MINISTRY CRITICIZED
BY KOKUMIN DOMEI
Adachi's Party Issues Statement
Deploring Delay in Introduc-
ing Important Bills
THIRD OF SESSION ELAPSED
Government Warned Its Attitude
May Cause People to Doubt
Loyalty to Parliamentarism
Criticism of the Government and the
other political partics in the Diet on
the score that no bills of any impor-
tance have yet been taken up in the
present session. was voired by leaders
of the Kokumin Domei. or National
League, Mr. Kenzo Adachi's political
party. at a meeting held Friday aftcr-
noon. The meeting took place in the
Diet building and was a private one.
The Asahi reported that the principa!
subject discussed was the attitude c.
the Government and of the two major
political parties. the Seiyukai and the
Minseito. All the Kokumin Domei
eaders. it was reported. agrecd in
criticizing the manner in which the
Government. with the assistance of the
Seiyukai and Minseito. is handling af-
tairs in the Diet.
Following the meeting a statement
was issued in the name of the party.
It began by pointing out that about
one-third of the present session of the
Diet already has elapsed. Yet. it adds.
no bills relating to farm relief. to re-
vision of the election law or to other
inportant matters have been laid be-
fore the Diet, despite a previous pro-
mise by the Government that such
measures would be introduced during
the present session.
"There is no excuse for the Govern.
ment's delay in introducing important
measures." the statement contirued.
"As a result of this neglect of its
duty by the Government. the Lower
House has been left with no important
bills to discuss. How are we to ex-
1 lain this situation except on the
theory that the Government is indif-
ferent to the wishes of the people.
being concerned only with temporiz-
ing?
"We hereby call the attention of the
Government and of the two major
political parties which are supporting
it to the fact that their attitude in
the Diet is contrary to their profes-
sions of loyalty to the cause of rarlia-
mentary government. We also warn
them that this attitude is giving cause
to the people to doubt whether the
Diet is performing its functions pro-
perly."
The Kokumin Domei leaders during
the meeting also discussed the attitude
of the party toward the bill revising
the peace preservation law. which was
sheduled to be introduced into the
Diet yesterday. It was decided that
Mr. Yojiro Matsutani should speak for
the party when debate on the mea-
ure was held.
111

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
27
The Japan Advertiser
Tokyo, Sunday, February 4, 19t4.
CAN'T BRAG OR SHOW
Iroblem, but 4 permenent agensy 
Agriculture Minister Goto said se-
not yet been decided.
veral possible policies required ttle
Seek to All Re
FEAR ON NAVY PACT,
money and yet would assist the agri-
In reply to a query frem Mr. Olshi
cultural population, and that the Gov-
ernment was studying possibilities.
OSUMI INFORMS DIET
military authorities with the direct
Mr. Sugiyama then turned on the
ister Ryutaro Nagal said he
question as to whether they did not
think it advisable to turn over portions
been imposed on millet for
of military appropriations for the mo-
ral education of the agricultural popu-
and other utilizations ef rice a
Either Confidence or Concilia-
lation, "seeing that the vital factor in
encouraged in Formom.
warfare is the spiritual morale of the
Answering a question, Edueat
tion Would Be Misunderstood
men." The Navy Minister answered
Minister Ichiro Hatoyama assured Mr.
that. although the military authorities
Seizaburo Tsuchiya, Minseito, that
Now, Minister Says
concurred in necessity of spiritual
quality in the fighting forces, new
election law would be introduced
equipment was necessary and the ap-
the present Diet. He continued, tha
ARMY REORGANIZATION DUE
propriations included in the budgetary
the Government has no plan. at pre
plan were the mininium to cover pre-
sent for the reconstruction of the
scnt requirements.
House of Peers or the reformation of
Hayashi Says Plans Under Way
Osaka Fight Recalled
the Peerage system so as to perfect
The interpellator referred to the cele-
Parliamentary politics.
for Reform as Result of New
brated "Go-Stop" case of Osaka, in
Mr. Kazuo Nakal, Seiyukai, sugest.
which a soldier and a traffic policeman
ed that light sentences for military
Situation in World
engaged in fight. with the result that
men and heavy penalties for civilians
it was argued and deliberated in high
in the May 15 incident may have an
official quarters as representing a con-
MILITARY AGAIN CRITICIZED
flict between the military and civilian
mier Saito and Justice Minister Ko-
adverse effect on public thought. Pre-
populations. Such incidents. the speak-
yama said the matter was receiving
er said. are likely to cause alienation
Navy Minister Mineo Osumi yester-
military authorities should seek to pre-
between the military and civilians, and
attention.
The House of Peers was not in ses
day in the budget committee session
vent them.
slon yesterday.
of Lower House of the Diet set forth
Mr. Hikosaburo Kurihara of the Ko-
At the plenary session of the Lower
in a sentence the present position of
makichi Nakajima. Minister of Com-
kumin Domei interpellated Baron Ku-
House. Mr. Tajichi Kato accused the
Government of negligent delay in in-
his office toward open discussion of
merce and Industry. on an article ap-
troducing measures for the revision of
Japan's attitude toward the 1935 Wa-
pearing under the Baron's name in the
the election law and for the relief of
shington disarmament conference.
With immediate conditions extrentdy
February issue of the Gendai. which,
Mr. Kurihara charged. praised Takauji
farmers and industrialists of the small
stated the Government was applying
and middle classes. Premier Saito
delicate, he said. it is best to main-
tain the utmost silence. because if
cause of his day." Minister Nakajima
replied that the article was a reprint
Ashikaga. "a traitor to the Imperial
speed and that the bills would be in-
troduced shortly.
The bill for the revision of the peace
Japan says she is not afraid to enter
of one he had written 10 years ago.
preservation law was then introduced.
a naval construction race she will be
and that his ideas since then had
undergone change. He expressed re-
Justice Minister Koyama explaining
that it was aimed at the extermination
accused of adopting a challenging at-
gret. but Mr. Kurihara demanded that
of radical thought. both Communistis
titude, and if she says she desires a
he assume responsibility for the pres-
and reactionary.
satisfactory agreement at any price. she
reply from Minister Nakajima. the in-
ent publication. Drawing no further
reorganization law will be discussed at
A bill for the revision of the court
might be considered timid.
terpellator asked the War and Navy
the plenary session of the House of
That ended. temporarily at least, a
Ministers what they thought of the
Peers tomorrow. The schedule calls
line of interpellation which had been
matter. They gave no answers.
for . interpellation by Mr. H. Seki,
proceeding more or less steadily for
Problems relating to fishing distriets
Dowakai. on governmental discipline
several days, and the reply was termed
came up immediately after the noon
with special reference to present
by Nippon Dempo the clearest state-
recess. Mr. Kenzo Aoyama of the Sei-
school scandals and by Viscount Kiko
ment Admiral Osumi has yet made on
yukai quizzing the Government as to
Okawachi. Kenkyukai. on general ad-
the Navy's pesi'ion relative to th: con-
the impending revision of the Japa-
ministration. The House will continue
ference.
nese-Soviet fishery agreement affecting
budget committee sessions tomorrow.
The question was directed Ly Mr.
northern waters. Foreign Minister
Teikichi Kageyama of the Seiyukai
Hirota replied that solution of fishing
midway in a discussion of educational.
problems must be preceded by better-
railway and agricultural matters. Mr.
ment in the friendship between the
Kageyama wanted to know whether the
Navy Minister had any intention of re-
two countries.
Stating that the fundamental policy
vising the existing naval quota at the
of present rice control steps should be
to increase the consumption of rice.
Washington meeting.
War Minister Senjuro Hayashi there-
Mr. Rinji Oishi. Seiyukai. asked if
after told the Lower House that the
the Gov rnment planned a special or-
military organization faced the neces-
ran of investigation toward that end.
sity of fundamental reform in the near
He was told by Minister Goto that
future "in view of the latest inter-
conferences were often held on the
national situation. specially the latest
developments in the Far East." He
added that the reorganization will be
carried out when plans are completed.
Speaking critically of predominating
military appropriations in the draft
budget for 1934-35. Mr. Motojiro Sugi-
yama of the Social Mass Party directed
attention to Government plans to cut
appropriations of the Home and Agri-
cultural Ministries by about ¥100,000.-
000 and asked if the authorities
thought it possible after that reduc-
tion to enforce the 10 major policies
adopted by the conference of Ministers
last fall.

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
28
The Japan Advertiser,
Tokyo, Sunaay, Februmry 4, 1934.
COMMENT STRESSES
Said Mr. Naoyoshi Tsukazaki, one of
the defense attorneys in the naval
court-martial at Yokosuka:
"These defendants, who had planned
SEVERITY OF TERMS
such a great incident, were surely
prepared to meet death in carrying
out their deed. Therefore I believe
that the defendants themselves will
not raise the question of the severity
of their sentences. Such a view can
Difference Cited in Punishment
be gathered from their testimony and
Imposed on Civilians Com-
conduct at their trial. In the verdict
as delivered, however, I am unable to
pared With Service Men
find comment by the court in regard
to the motives of the defendants. I
was disappointed to see that the court
MATTER IS AIRED IN DIET
was unable clearly to understand the
great attitude of the defendants.
They would be satisfied if the court
interpellator Believes Discre-
had given consideration to this, and
it is to be regretted that the court
ancy in Sentences Will Af-
disregarded that aspect of the case.
fect Public Thought
The sentences imposed are practically
the same as the procurator had de-
manded; compared with the sentences
Although not a great deal of com-
imposed on the service defendants
there is a great difference."
ment on the sentences imposed in the
Judge Hideroku Kamigaki, who pre-
civilian trial arising out of the May 15
sided at the civil trial. was quoted as
incident had made its way into print
saying that the proceedings had been
by last night. virtually all of what
conducted on a basis of "strict fair-
comment there was stressed the sever-
ity of the sentences imposed upon the
ness."
"I did not impose any restrictions
the sentences imposed upon the naval
civilian defendants, as compared with
upon the utterances of the accused in
and army defendants by naval and
court." he continued. "This fact con-
tributed in no small measure to the
armycourts-martialrespectively.
Rengo reported last night that political
smooth conduct of the case. The
circles were inclined to remain silent
trouble is that the accused all feel
in the matter, but that it had "gen-
that there was justification for their
erally been noted" that the sentences
actions."
imposed by the civil court were heavi-
er. and that the necessity was pointed
out of co-ordinating the civil nd mili-
tary criminal codes.
One of the first scenes of public
comment on the sentences was the
Lower House of the Diet. There Mr.
Kazuo Nagai, Seiyukai member. took
oce sion to point out that the civil of-
fenders in the May 15 outrages seemed
to have been subjected to heavier
punishment than the service men. He
expressed fear that such a difference
in punishment would have an "un-
desired effect" upon public thought.
Premier Saito and Justice Minister
Matsukichi Koyama replied vaguely
that close attention would be given to
the matter. The War Minister. Gen-
cral Senjuro Hayashi. replied that it
was necessary for the army to have
military administrative powers, and the
Navy Minister, Admiral Mineo Osumi,
retorted that he could not coment on
the decision of a court-martial holding
independent authority.
Mr. Hanzo Yamada, an attorney who
defended the army conspirators at the
1st Division court-matial, was quoted
by Rengo as commenting:
"As I did not attend the trial of the
civilian defendants I am not in a posi-
tion to comment in any detail. How-
ever. I have a general idea of the case
because the incident centered more or
less around the army defcndants. The
severity of the sentences imposed by
the civil court can be commented upon
from various angles. I personally think
the sentences were too heavy. This
was especially true in the case of the
defendant Takeshi Ikematsu. He was
involved to an extent similar to the
army cadets who were tried by court-
martial. Yet, Ikematsu's sentence is
15 years. compared with four years
imposed on the army cadets. This is
too heavy a sentence and is to be reg-
retted."

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
29
The Japan Advertiser,
Tokyo, Tuesday, February 6, 1934.
ACCURATE
and
IMPARTIAL
in News
Price 15 Sen
ADMIRAL'S MENTION
OF LINDBERGH VISIT
DRAWS FIRE IN DIET
Osumi Says Reference to Lind-
bergh as Spy, Credited to
Suetsugu, Went too Far
NEWS 'LEAK' IS CHARGED
Member Claims Amnesty Publi-
shed Without Announcement
from Official Quarters
INDIAN
TARIFF
DEBATED
Published charges attributed to Vice-
Admiral Nobumasa Suetsugu that Co-
lonel Charles A. Lindbergh may have
made his flight to Japan as an Ameri-
can spy "seem to have gone too far."
Navy Minister Mineo Osumi declared
in the Lower House of the Diet yes-
terday afternoon under a keen inter-
pellation from Mr. Kikuo Kiyose, Sei-
yukai.
The statement appeared in an in-
terview with Vice-Admiral Suctsugu.
Commander-in-Chief of the Combined
Fleet. in the magazine Gendai, and
created exeitement both here and in
the United States. coupled as it was
with conjectures as to eventualities in
a possible war between Japan and
America.
"This article, attributed to Vice-Ad-
miral Suetsugu. has caused a great
sensation in America and other parts."
Mr. Kivose stated. "What step has
been taken by the Navy Minister?"
"The article was not written by
Vice-Admiral Suetsugu himself." said
the Navy Minister. "However. the
s
matter is recciving attention. as it has
n
had effects unexpected by Vice-Admi-
h
ral Suetsugu."
"The article said Colonel Lindbergh
.s
acted as a spy when he flew over the
h
Chishima Ialands." persisted the inter-
pellator. "What is the view of the
authorities on that matter."
e
Rengo said Admiral Osumi replied.
y
"The writing seems to have gone too
far." and that. "An explanation has
been made through American news-
papermen and correspondents in order
that possible misunderstanding may be
removed."
Treaty Costs Discussed
Then Mr. Kiyose turned to naval

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
America.
"This article, attributed to Vice-Ad-
miral Suetsugu, has caused a great
sensation in America and other parts,"
Mr. Kiyose stated. "What step has
been taken by the Navy Minister?"
"The article was not written by
Vice-Admiral Suetsugu himself," said
the Navy Minister. "However, the
matter is receiving attention, as it has
had effects unexpected by Vice-Admi-
h
ral Suetsugu."
"The article said Colonel Lindbergh
acted as a spy when he flew over the
Chishima Ialands," persisted the inter-
pellator. "What is the view of the
authorities on that matter."
Rengo said Admiral Osumi replied,
"The writing seems to have gone too
far," and that, "An explanation has
been made through American news-
papermen and correspondents in order
that possible misunderstanding may be
removed."
Treaty Costs Discuseed
Then Mr. Kiyose turned to naval
disarmament.
"There are many." said he, "who
consider that the navy treaty should
not be revised. because such treaties
serve to increase expenditures rather
than lessen them. What is the opinion
of the navy on that?"
"It depends on the contents of the
treaty," replied the Navy Minister.
"Do the naval authorities consider
that military expenditures have been
decreased as a result of the London
Treaty?"
"The demand for military expendi-
tures must change in accordance with
various conditions other than disarma-
ment treaties."
"It is considered," Mr. Kiyose con-
tinued, "that the continued existence
of the London Treaty encourages ship
building competition between Japan
and America."
"Efforts will be made to prevent the
occurrence of such a state of affairs."
the Navy Minister said.
"Beyond naval competition," asked
Mr. Kiyose bluntly, "is there fear of
a serious state between the two coun-
tries?"
"I must refrain from commenting on
the future." Admiral Osumi replicd.
Mr. Kiyose next wanted to know the
number and kini of vessels in the first
replenishment plan. construction of
which has not yet been undertaken.
"The vessels not yet constructed."
said the Navy Minister. "are one cruis-
er, one destroyer, two submarine boats
and two mine sweepers."
Vessels Are Listed
"What is the allotment of ship con-
struetion to the naval yards and civil
yards?"
"The allotments have hitherto been
half-and-half. but as the naval arse-
nals have been engaging recently in
the reconstruction of capital ships. the
allotments of new ship construction at
present are two-thirds to civil yards
and one-third to non-civil yards."
"What are the items and prices of
main artieles to be imported with the
naval appropriations of 1934," asked
Mr. Kiyose.
Paymaster Rear-Admiral Haruichi
Murakami, chief of the accountant and
supply bureau. listed them as fuel oil.
arms. nickel. Chilean nitrate and
others, the total expenditure being es-
timated at Y23,000,000.
Hope for Solution
Answers by Cabinet Ministers under
interpellation at other periods of the
day indicated that the Government still
has hope of inducing the Indian Gov-
ernment to modify its recent tariff in-
crease on sundry goods. and indicated
that protests of mail pilots will bring
about a change in the location of the
Osaka airport.
In the budget session of the Lower
House Mr. Teikichi Ichimatsu. Minsei-
to. complained that a "news leak" had
taken place Sunday in announcement
of Government decision to petition the
Emperor to proclaim an amnesty in
celebration of the birth of the Crown
Prince. Mr. Ichimatsu said that no
formal announcement had been made
by the authorities. yet the decision re-
ceived general publicity.
Replying to questions by Mr. Tsuguo
Nakamura of the Kokumin-Domei on
the iron merger question, in which it

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
30
The Asahi
Translated by the Japan Advertiser,
Tokyo, Tuesday, February 6, 1936.
remember that the Central Govern-!
China's Policy Uncertain
ment has appointed General Chen I to
ASAHI
the task of settling the situation in
The speech made by Mr. Koki Hirota,
Fukien Province. General Chen, it will
the Foreign Minister, at the re-opening
be recalled. has been friendly toward
of the Diet session and the replies
Japan. It is easy to see that the same
returned by him to interpellations in
elements which put Mr. Huang Fu at
both Houses on the foreign policy of
the head of the civil administration in
the Government are reassuring. Their
North China were behind the appoint-
moderation has inspired a certain mea-
ment of General Chen to the post in
sure of confidence.
Fukien, which is in close proximity
Relations with Great Britain, the
with Formosa. It is impossible not to
United States, the Soviet Union and
admit that the course followed by the
other foreign countries are all impor-
Nanking Government in North China
tant. Moreover, these relations are
and Fukien is indicative of a certain
complex. Thus it is no easy matter to
amount of pro-Japanese sentiment on
keep Japan on correct terms with all
the part of the leaders of the Nanking
of them. There is opportunity for Mr.
Government. According to reports,
Hirota to work, relying on diplomatic
Marshal Chang Hsueh-liang, the old
means. and we think we are not wide
warlord of Mukden. who has returned
of the mark when we assume that Mr.
from an extensive trip abroad, is going
Hirota sees much room for the play o.
to be appointed commander of forces
diplomacy in adjusting Japan's for-
to fight the bandits in Honan, Anhui,
eign relations.
and Hupei. It is easy to see in the
There are many problems awaiting
proposed appointment an indication of
the attention of the Foreign Minister.
1 desire on the part of the National
He must improve relations with the
Government to keep the Marshal from
United States, for instance, but the first
North China out of deference to the
thing he is called upon to do is to put
wishes of Japan.
an end to the present situation between
Another friendly gesture'was made
Japan and the Soviet Union. By put-
by China to Japan when General
ting a new face on the situation be-
Chiang Kai-shek received Lieutenant-
tween Japan and the Soviet Union, he
General Suzuki. attached to the Japan-
may hope for successful conclusion of
ese Legation in Peiping. During the
the negotiations for sale of the Soviet
interview, the Chinese leader was re-
interests in the Chinese Eastern Rail-
ported to have discussed relations be-
way. Japan is willing to use its good
tween Japan and China and measures
offices to bring about a successful con-
clusion of the negotiations, but its will-
to be taken for dealing with the Red
menace in China. It would be rash.
ingness will help little unless the So-
viet Union displays more sineerity.
however to jump to the conclusion
The next task for the Foreign Min-
that there is an intention on the part
of the National Government and Gen-
ister is that of restoring normal re-
cral Chiang to seek better relations
lations with China. We desire a gen-
with Japan.
eral improvement in the Sino-Japanese
situation. Unfortunately. it seems im-
Nothing is more difficult to predict
possible to hope for such improvement.
than the future policy of China toward
Indeed. it is doubtful whether close
Japan. China's policy is not definitely
relations between the two countries
fixed. It is influenced by internal con-
can be restored in the measurable
ditions. The National Government has
future.
come to realize that continuance of the
It is fortunate that the Central Gov-
anti-Japanese policy only make things
ernment has done remarkably well
difficult for it in dealing with the do-
in dealing with the situation arising
mestic situation. Hence the present
out of the declaration of independence
friendly gesture of the Nanking Gov-
by the Fukienese. If the anti-Fukien
ernment and General Chiang toward
campaign had failed. Sino-Japanese re-
Japar. Nanking would resume its
dations would have been aggravated.
anti-Japanese policy were it sure that
The Central Government would have
such a step wou!d put it in good stand-
been reorganized, and the elements
ing with the people. We appreciate the
opposed to Japan would have risen
change for the better which is coming
to power.
over the attitude of the Nanking Gov-
With the defeat of the Fukien re-
ernment toward Japan. but it would
volutionaries. the plan of Mr. Hu Han-
be too much to expect China to as-
min. a leader of the right-wing of the
sume the whole responsibility for end-
Kuomintang. and his associaties for re-
ing the present Sino-Japanese situation.
organization o? the National Govern-
ment fell through. General Chiang
Kai-shek. chairman of the military af-
fairs committee. and Mr. Wang Ching-
wei, chairman of the Executive Yuan.
re left with the task of running the
government. The fourth plenary meet-
ing of the central committee of the
Kuomintang has strengthened the posi-
tion of the Chiang-Wang combination
In this connection, it is important to

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advertiser,
3
Tokyo, Wednesday, February 7, 1934.
Powers Ignore Hirota
KOKUMIN
There is heated discussion of Japan's
foreign policy in both Houses of the
Diet. It seems that the people are de-
termined that diplomacy should be
taken from the ground in which it has
lain for years and given a new start.
Much credit goes to Foreign Minister
Hirota for the revival of the interest
of the people in foreign policy. He has
successfully resisted the elements which
would keep diplomacy subservient or
in the background.
Mr. Hirota's speech before the Diet
was for both domestic and foreign con-
sumption. The effect was unfortunate.
It tampered with the spirit of the peo-
ple at home. Abroad it had the op-
posite result from that desired by him.
He deprecated the talk about the crisis
of 1935 and 1936, but he failed to make
clear what he proposes to do to tide
over the crisis. The people are feeling
the gravity of the situation which will
confront the country when the naval
treaties expire. The uncertainty felt
by them about the future is too great
to be dispelled by the statement that
diplomacy may be counted on to cope
successfully with the anticipated crisis.
As for the effect oi Mr. Hirota's Diet
speech in foreign countries. it has been
disconcerting. The speech did not
evoke serious reactions. The foreign
press was interested more in the re-
signation of General Araki as War Min-
ister than in the Hirota speech. Mr.
Hirota had much to say regarding
America, the Soviet Union and China.
The effect of his speech in these coun-
tries was discouraging. China did not
respond to what the Minister said
about it. In the United States, the
specch was the occasion for discussion
of relations between Japan and the
U.S.S.R. Some commentators went the
length of declaring that a war between
them was inevitable. In Moscow. the
speech was most unpopular. High
Soviet officials concluded that there was
no intention on the part of Japan to
alter its policy toward the Soviet Union.
which they held was responsible for
the tension in relations between them.
Mr. Hirota would promote friendly re-
lations with America, the Soviet Union
and China. But these countries refuse
to listen to him. The task before Mr.
Hirota is difficult.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.99)
32
The Japan Advertiser,
"One is termed anti-military when
one says that the budget for the next
Tokyo, Wednesday, February 7,
flscal year includes military exp
DIET MEMBER CALLS
whether Japan's relations with the
Soviet actually warranted the pessimism
is a mistake to think that suck
with which the public seems to view
them. The Viscount also recalled the
the people against the military
CHINESE AIR SERVICE
Government's statement that relations
with China had been improving of
speech are too numerous to be
stances of restriction of l
late, and suggested that, as trade rela-
rated here. Party government
tions had improved, diplomatic relations
evils but it also has its merits.
VIOLATION OF PACT
should do likewise.
In reply Mr. Hirota said that his-
is the view of the Home Minister
tory showed the Japanese people to
this question?"
be ever ready to respond to the call
In reply, Baron Tatsuo Yamam
of patriotic duty and fight for the ex-
istence of their country whenever the
Minister of Home Affairs, id
Interpellator in Upper House
nation is menaced to a great extent.
the Government had been "vin
But, he. added, there is no fear of war
careful consideration" to freedam of
Airs Stale Rumors About Sec-
at present. Relations with the Soviet
speech and liberty of the preis, and
do not warrant pessimism. he said.
ret Treaty With U. S.
Mr. Hirota expressed agreement with
that only such speeches or publications
Viscount Okochi's opinion that Sino-
as "are injurious to the political sy
FREEDOM OF SPEECH ASKED
Japanese relations ought to improve.
War Agitation Denied
tem and public peace and order" àre
controlled. The Minister added that.
The interpellator next asked for the
views of the War Minister and the
the Government has been considering
Questioner Charges Governmen
Navy Minister on talk about agitation
every possible measure to cope with
With Infringing Upon Rights
for war. He also requested an ex-
popular unrest.
planation dispelling all suspicion that
At the close of the morning session
of Speech and of Press
the military disapproved of party gov-
Mr. Akaike took over interpollation.
crnment, and asked about the etiquet.
te of military men discussing politics.
"I consider the Sino-Japanas Treaty
WAR TALK DENIED AGAIN
Admiral Osumi replied that the
for non-cession of Fukien Province to
Japanese military has not the least
have been violated for two reasons,"
intention to provoke any kind of war,
he declared, according to Rengo's ac
Assertion that the establishment o
but that the military must always be
count. "The first reason is the Chine
prepared for emergencies. The Navy
the China Aviation Company's air ser-
Minister refrained from expressing
Aviation Company. A large part of
vices in that country has violated the
his opinion on the military criticism
the company's capital has been put up
treaty for preservation of China's ter-
of party government, merely hoping
by America. Of the three air lines
ritorial integrity because the company
for "strong and fair policies."
operated by the company I wish to
was financed partly with American
Minister pointed out that military men
In supplementing his reply the Navy
hai and Canton. The object of the air
call attention to that between Shang-
money and because its services have
in active service are forbidden to parti-
service is,avowedly commercial, but in
'a bearing on the defense of Formosa,"
cipate directly in politics. Serious-
fact is intended for military purposes,
was made in the House of Peers yester-
minded military men, however, cannot
Violation Charged
day. The subject was brought up at the
studying political affairs because, unlike
help taking an interest in politics and
military purposes, and of the foreign
"The facts of its intended use for
tail-end of the day's plenary session by
the past. political situations now have
capital. clearly violate the Sino-Japs-
Mr. Atsushi Akaike. former chief of
an important bearing upon the success
nese Treaty. If planes were to fly
the Metropolitan Police Board and a
or failure of any future war. Admiral
from the base at Amoy they could
given wide publicity in the Japanese
member of the Dowakai group, who
also took occasion to revive the canard.
press some months ago. to the effect
that a secret treaty existed between
the United States and China by which.
he was of the same opinion with the
Navy Minister regarding the criticisn
of party government and agreed with
Osumi, said.
the Foreign Minister on the questior
The Minister of War in replying saic
reach Formosa in a few hours. This
matter is of concern from the stand-
point of the national defense of Japan."
He then made reference to the rumars
of an American-Chinese secret treaty.
"The second violation is the enlarge-
in return for aviation capital, Amer-
of avoiding war. Tie War Minister de.
clared that to be bellicose and to bc
ment of Communized territory in
ica acquired landing rights for mili-
prepared to defend the country were
China." he went on. "Development of
tary planes. a naval base on the China
two entirely different questions. and
sovietized territory neans the division
(oast and a host of other things im-
that the conviction of the military tha!
of China; it means. in effect, (he estab-
portant :trategically. The interpella-
national defense cannot be neglected
lishment of a new state in China which
toi also claimed that the treaty had
been violated by the Communization
was absolutely right.
Referring to the prevailing feeling of
Internationale. There may not be
will receive its orders from the Third
of a con:iderable area in Fukien Pro-
unrest. Viscount Okochi declared that
serious results today, but they will
vince.
the restriction of the liberty of the
come in the future. We cannot afford
Foreign Minister Koki Hirota in re-
press is responsible to a great extent
to overlook this condition in China."
plying merely said he did not think
for the situation.
Foreign Minister Hirota's reply, given
Communization of an arca in China
"It is said that the Premier has ask-
when the session resumed after a briet
could be regarded as cession of ter-
ed the president of the Seiyukai and
noon recess. was translated by Rengo
ritory by China. In regard to talk of
the president of the Minseito to re-
as follows:
the secret treaty he gave the customary
frain from making such speeches as
"Sino-Japanese relations as concern-
reply that the Fcreign Office was "keep-
may excite the military." Nippon Dem-
ed with the non-cession treaty come
ing in touch with the military authori-
po quoted him as saying "As a mat-
under two heads. The first is in re-
ties."
ter of fact, 70 per cent of the budget
gard to non-cession of land, and the
Many Subjects Taken Up
estimates for the next fiscal year are
stcond has to do with military affairs.
Yesterday's session of the Upper
military expenses. which gives the im-
If the China Aviation Company has
House. devoted entirely to interpella-
pression that the present Diet session
been established for military purposes,
tion. brougct up a variety of subjects
is a military Diet session. It is a
as Mr. Akaike asserted. it violates the
for discussion and criticism. In the
matter for regret that the liberty of the
st cond article of the treaty; but 
course of 1eplies Foreign Minister Hi-
press and of speech is restricted. in
tl:orough invcstigation should be mada
rota. War Minister Senjuro Hayashi
spite of the aforementioned fact and
in view of the existing social condi-
to decide whether or not the com-
and Navy Minister Admiral Osumi as-
pany has any military purpose.
serted that Japan's armaments were
tions.
Can't Criticize Military
"At the some time it is reported that
not for aggressive purposes.
"It is inevitable" Viscount Okochi
a secret treaty has been concluded be
Criticism was made of the alleged
continued. "that Japan should be mis-
tween China and America. As much
tendency of the authorities to violate
understood by foreign countries. be-
attention as possible has been given
the right of free speech and the free-
cause one section has been frequently
this point by the Foreign Office, which
dom of the press. the interpellator.
expressing its views while the other
has co-operated with the military au-
Viscount Kiko Okochi of the Kenkyu-
has been unable to discuss matters con-
thorities.
kat, asserting that this tendency had a
cerning relations with other countries.
"In regard to Communist bandits in
bad effect upon the public mind.
That wild rumors have been frequent-
China. what Mr. Akaike has said is
when the session opened shortly before
10:30 o'clock. with  question as to
Viscount Okochi began interpellating
ly circulated also is attributable to the
lack of freedom of speech.
n.unist theory. However. I do not know
logical from the viewpoint of Com-
what has been done to be equivalent

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
33
The Jupan Advertiser,
Tokyo, Yednesday, rebruary 7, 1924.
IRON MERGER BILL
Debate began yesterday morning be-
fore the First Budget Sub-committee
of the Lower House, charged with re-
porting on the budget estimates for
IS ATTACKED AGAIN
the Foreign, Justice and Overseas Min-
istries. Mr. Yoichi Sato of the Min-
seito, who opened debate, had little
to say about the budget, but wanted
to know if the Government had any
Kokumin Domei Criticizes Mea-
intention of advising the Manchukuo
government to teach the Japanese
sure as It Is Submitted to
language in Manchukuo schools; whe-
ther the Government intended to unify
Lower House of Diet
the Japanese religions in Manchukuo,
and whether the Government intend-
ed to request foreign nations hereafter
TRADE TREATY UP AGAIN
to call Japan "Nippon" instead of
Japan.
Not Japan's Affair
First Sub-Committee on Budget
Mr. Taki replied that Japan had
nothing to do with Manchukuo's edu-
Opens Debate Which Wanders
cational policies; that freedom of be-
Away From Finances
lief should be recognized in Manchu-
kuo; and that the name of a country
in foreign languages is a matter of
An attack on the Government's bill
custom.
Rcplying to a question by Mr. Kazuo
for amalgamating the iron industry of
Nakai of the Seiyukai regarding per-
Japan into one government-controlled
manent leases in Japan. Foreign Min-
concern was made in the House of
ister Koki Hirota said that the Govern-
Representatives yesterday afternoon at
ment intended to impose property, in-
a plenary session during which the
come and business profit taxes in all
bill was introduced. The measure was
cases except those of privileges accord.
offered with a long explanation by
ed by treaty or by dccision of the In-
Mr. Zembei Horikiri. Parliamentary
ternational Court of Arbitration.
Vice-Minister of Finance.
Mr. Hideo Ikeda of the Minseito
Mr. Tsuguo Nakamura, of the Koku-
wanted to know why Japan was mak-
min Domei, immediately rose to de-
ing efforts as an intermediary for the
bate and dclivered a long speech at-
establishments of foreign consulates
tacking the Government on the basis
in Manchukuo. Mr. Hirota replied that
of the merger bill. His attack follow-
some countries already had "practical-
ed closely that made in the House of
ly recognized" Manchukuo and that
Peers last week by Mr. Mannoshin
two or three more were on the point
Kamiyama of the Dowakai. Mr. Na-
of doing so.
kamura based his attack chiefly on the
Government's method of evaluating
the private plants to be taken over
under the merger bill. which method.
he intimated. resulted in too high an
evaluation of the private plants com-
pared with others. The measure even-
tually was referred to a special com-
nittee.
Two Other Measures
Two other government bills were
introduced. one providing for the con-
struction of 26 short railway lines in
local districts. and the other, already
approved by the Upper House. pro-
viding for government-ol erated agri-
cultural warehouses. Both were re-
ferred to committee.
Mr. Mamoru Kishi of the Kokumin
Domei opened interpellation at the
plenary session by attacking the im-
pending Indo-Japanese
commercial
agreement. Negotiations leading to
this were a failure from Japan's point
of view. he contended.
Mr. Kichinojo Tamaki of the Seiyu-
kai, after a brief criticism or two of
the trade negotiations, wanted to know
what was being done to control the
import into Japan of coal from Man-
chukuo. Mr. Masao Taki, Parliamen-
tary Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs.
replied that the trade agreement with
India was not considered an ideal one.
but that every opportunity would
be made to improve trade relations
with India. The Parliamentary Vice-
Minister of Overseas Affairs replied
that the price of coal in Japan had
risen somewhat as a result of limita-
tion of imports of Fushun coal.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.99)
3y
The Jann Aavertiner.
Tokyo, Thurstsy, February 8. 1938.
DENIAL OF INTENTION
Agricultural Minister Fumio Goto
aid that the fertilizer problem con-
stitutes one of the most serious to the
agricultural population of the country,
TO QUIT IS MADE BY
as most of the farmer's money is spent
for fertilizer. Japan is not self-suffici.
ent in fertilizer supply, he said, and
must be practleal in obtaining it.
MINISTER TAKAHASHI
Foreign Minister Koki Hirota added
tha! the authorities concerned are tak-
ing steps to promote economic co-ope-
ration between Japan and the other
Powers.
Head of Finance Office Finally
Baron Takeo Kikuchi, Koseikai, then
brought up the question of the maga-
Replies Directly to Interpella-
zine article written by Baron Naka-
jima in 1924, referring in what are
tion In Diet
considered complimentary terms to Ta-
kauji Ashikaga, the Benedict Arnold of
Japan, who, as a powerful military
leader, sent the Emperor Godaigo into
AKAJIMA AGAIN ASSAILED
exile in the 12th Century and enthron-
ed Kogen as Emperor thus creating
two contesting courts for nearly a cen-
Further Attack Launched on
tury.
Apology Is Made
Commerce Minister Because of
Raron Kikuchi, a descendant of a
Article in Magazine
royalist who defended the true Em-
peror in those stormy times, delivered
vigorous speech. cmphasizing the
necessity of propagating the real Japa-
DISCUSS TRADE CONTROL
nese spirit both in politics and diplo-
macy. Everyone expects the Ministers
of State to uphold the Japanese spirit.
A direct question prompted by many
he said.
recent rumors yesterday in a Diet com-
"I want to tell Commerce Minister
mittee meeting drew from Finance Min-
Nakajima," he shouted, "that Taka-
ister Kcrekiyo Takahashi the flat state-
uji Ashikaga was a traitor. Any praise
accorded him is incompatible with the
ment that he had no intention of re-
facts of history and the Japanese spi-
signing after the present session.
rit."
The interpellation. by Mr. Kozo Ma-
Supporting Baron Kikuchi, Viscount
Takamitsu Mimurudo demanded the
kiyama, Minseito, was an incident in a
presence of the Home and Navy Min-
day marked by discussion of fertilizer
isters in connection with the interpella-
control, foreign trade control and con-
tion, but was informed that both were
tinued attacks on Baron Kumakichi
on business elscwhere.
Nakajima, Minister of Commerce and
Baron Nakajima, Rengo said. listen-
Industry. for a magazine article penned
ed with bowed head, then replied, as
10 years ago and reprinted lately in a
he had on other occasions when the
Tokyo magazine.
matter came up. that the article was
Before asking directly whether the
written a decade ago. was reprinted
Finance Minister intended to resign.
without his "careful knowledge." and
Mr. Makiyama said he had had heard
represented thought that had changed.
many rumors to that effect and that
He said it was possible to study his.
Mr. Takahashi, in replying to interpel-
tory from several angles. but that he
lation. appeared to avoid answers bear-
had no intention of according praise to
ing on the future. thus creating the be
Ashikaga.
lief that he was endeavoring to leave
Premier Saito replied in defense of
the way clear for a successor.
Baron Nakajima.
"I am in office with no thought to
Baron Kikuchi, commenting caustical-
spare even to life and death." the Fin- ly on the influence of such articles on
ance Minister said. "I intend to remain the patriotism of children. then referred
in office until next year. or the year briefly to a rumor connecting Railway
after next."
Minister Chuzo Mitsuchi with a fin-
Trade Is Dellcate
ancial deal involved in the transfer of
Beginning an interpellation un fer- Kobe Steel Works shares. If the
t'izer control and foreign trade in the rumor is untrue. he asked. why does
plenal: session of the House of Peers, not the Government exercise control
ron Lanehide Kimotsuki. Koseikai, over such fabricated reports?
referred to Japan's rapid industrial pro-
A question that has come up before
gress in cent years. He quoted for-
since the Diet convened was asked by
eign export figures since 1875 and urg-
Mr. Eizo Ishizuka when will the Man-
eà State conirol of exports. He asked
churian incident come to an end? He
we Government directly if it intended
also repeated questions asked by previ-
to enforce State control of artificial
ous interpellators as to the Japanese-
iertilizer.
Manchukuo economic bloc. reorganiza-
Baron Nakajima replied that the au-
tion of the South Manchurian Railwy
thorities of the Ministry of Commerce
Company. and the "trinity system" of
and Industry. Foreign Affairs and Agri-
Japanese administrative organizations
culture and Foresty were conferring on
in Manchuria.
the advisability of enacting a law cal-
War Minister Senjuro Hayashi re.
culated to control foreign trade. He
plied that a peaceful era is approach-
said intensive study of the matter must
ing in Manchuria, but that it was still
be made before any decision can be
impossible to return definite answers
reached. because errors might damage
to questions concerning military affairs
tie country's trade opportunities. The
there.
Commerce Ministry, he said, is acting
Replying to Baron Kikuchi's question,
in concert with the Ministry of Agri-
Railway Minister Mitsuchi denied re-
ulture and Forestry to better the sit-
ports connecting the former Navy Min-
uation.
ister. Admiral Keisuke Okade, with the
Kobe Sl

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
35
The Kokumin,
Translsted by the Japan Advertiser.
Toryo, Thuredey, Pebrwory 8. 19?4.
Takauji Ashikaga
KOKUMIN
Baron Kumakichi Nakajima, the Min-
ister of Commerce and Industry, has
again exposed himself to widespread
criticism, this time, over a magazine
article he has written on the life of
Takauji Ashikaga. sometimes known as
the most disloyal figure in Japanes
history. This developmen: follows im-
mediately the violent Diet bradside
let loose on the person of Baron Na-
kajima over his alleged participation in
the iron merger scandal. It is most de-
plorable that a Minister of the National
Cabinet should have written in praise
of a historic figure remembered for his
disloyalty to the Emperor. It is quite
as much unfortunate that a group of
minor politicians have taken this op-
portunity to stir up an incident and
lead a movement toward a rupture of
the Cabinet.
Japanese history tells us that Takauji
Ashikaga was a traitor. There is no
need now for any to come forward and
tell us this was not so. An indiscre-
tion committed by the Commerce Min-
ister is much to be regretted; but at
the same time the attitude of the Diet
clique of making political capital of
this is even harder to forgive. It is
less courageous, more selfish.
In any case, the Diet session as it is,
being he!d today has no room for dle
talk about the character. traitor or no
traitor, of an ancient historical hero.
Military reform and improvement of
our foreign relations are incomparably
more important. The questions of
passing the budget and of the possi-
bility of inflation in Japan are waiting
for immediate solution, and, besides
these, there is the burning question of
agricultural relief. Due to the prolong-
ed economic depression, the farmers of
Japan have almost lost hope in the
future. Meantime the rice crop of 1934
is likely to be another bumper yield.
causing further despair and suffering.
Last year Korean and Formosan rice
also were harvc:ted in record quanti-
ties. thereby complicating the already
exasperating situation. While the far-
mer's debt is mounting and large relic!
funds are needed. there are no signs
that the military budget may be re-
duccd. Import restriction may be ne-
cessary for colonial rice.
All these vital questions are con-
fronting the Diet. The minute sooner
they are solved the greater will be
the extent of relief and benefit. And
yet the members have engaged them-
selves in a debate on the moral in-
tegrity of Takauji Ashikaga-the man
long dead and gone.
In conclusion. we wish to make it
clear that we are in no way obliged
to defend the conduct of Baron Naka-
jima. in whatever private action he
may take. We believe in common
sense in political honesty and, above
all. in loyalty to His Majesty the Em-
peror.

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032
611.9417/17
FORTe1.30.7pm
SEE
)DATED .Mar141934.
Japan
TO
NAME
1—1127
130
REGARDING:
Instructs to repart eny legislative action bearing on grants in aid,
direct or indirect, handed out by the Japanese Government to
promote exports of Japanese goods.
bo
12

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/13
804.00 P.R./76
1745
SEE
FOR
Jayen
Grew
April 16,1934
3
FROM
--) DATED
31
TO
NAME
1127
REGARDING:
Reports acoomplishments of the Diet which adjourned its
85th Session on March 26,1934.
esp

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.96)
The Diet Adjourns After Passing Many Bills.
In accoreance wit. earlier plans, the niet adjourned its
In session on % rch c6, although a few days previously it
was thought th t perh ps the session night have to be pro-
longed because many important bills has not be n passed. How-
ever, by dint of hard work both houses got their forces in
line ans the more Im ortant measures were put through. The
passage of the Budg t was ths principsl worry of the Premier
and now that it has become law, he is grestly relieved. Be-
cruse it called ror sucn enormous military ppropriations the
Premier fesred serious op osition, an:  pos ible elay of the
Liet session. However, the opposit on apparently found their
st nd was not popular with the public anc were unable to modify
the bill or stop its passage.
Forty-cight of th fifty bills prezentcd wer ossed during
t session, but only the Bucgct bill. eccording to the OsAk
Ashll, was worthy of note. Messures for th: rolief of the
f rmer, wore cisappointine and ineffectual, the AsAhl continues,
and the Elect:on Revision Bill, aiming at pmification of
politics, has net even r cher a vote, lthough it was considered
 some as on of o urineipal misions of tne sovernment.
The rice problem ar t set led; th measures pessed
are
cons cer  oniy temporizing af  irs.
Hegar ine t politieal purties in the Liet, uring the
initi 1 sesslons it was thought that ther was some improvement;
however

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.97)
-27 -
however, after a time the customary mud-slinging began, cul-
minating in the resignation of Mr. Hatoyama, and accusations
against the Minist rs of Justice and Finance. The principal
accuser, Mr. Okamoto, apparently outdi, himself, as he was
suspended for two weeks from the sessions because his accusa-
tions were foun not to be entirely true, and he was consider-
ed to be trying to make trouble for personal reasons.
While the Diet appeared to be much less under the control
o the military t  w:s formerly the c se, the large military
a propriations were passed, much to the regret of the agri-
culturists, and th: promised Peace Preservation Bill for the
purpose of stamping out subversive and jingoistic action, was
not passed. The latter bill wouls undoubtedly have helped the
Government to control too aggressive military gitation, as
well as purely destructive Jingoism, an: the HOCHI thinks
that an unf vorable impres ion has ben made on the public
by failure to pass the bill. Of course al other legislation
wa eclipsed toward t e end of the session by the considera-
tion o the Bu get, and t  was little c nce to pass any
measure uring th erl days because of th corrurtion charges
against Cabinet membere, which r uired 1 of th Diet!
time. Alth ugh some of th news apers clamor thut theDiet
accomplished very little in its 65th session, perhaps the
more influential ones ar inclined to be mor c rit ble,
realizing the ifficult problems an th obstacles that beset
the Diet. At least nearly al: bills wer passed, even if
their provisions do not satisfy t e public.
(c) Army any Navy.
1. The TOMOZURU Disaster.
Qn March 12

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.95)
-31 -
COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
In the 65th Session of the Imperial Diet which closed
on March 8, thirteen budgetary bills were passed, forty-one
other bills wer passed without amendment, seven were passed
vith amendments, and tvo were shelved. Among the forty-one
bills passed without amendment were the following:
A bill modifying the mining law.
A bill provi ing for the control of th exportation
of marine pro ucts.
& bill for th. prevention of unfair competition.
A. bill for th control of the Oil Industry (Soe Section
VI, subdivision (c).)
A bil! morlfying the law relating to wil'tary service.
A bill provi ing for th purchase of gold end bullion
by the Bank of Japan. (see Section V.)
A bill rovi ing for th issue of Loans to orsrily
to military men  n others  connection with the
Manchurian incicent.
A bill rov: i-a for exe  ti n fro th payment of taxes
b pursons h suffe d fro the lakoda fire.
A bill to eu  te ter or   ly te in rt ton of rice.
A bill provi ing for t
Isposal of Gove nment-owned
rice in " special manner.
A bill provi i for t co rol of t sole of raw silk
vest ned for ex ortstion.
The Fo egin Tra  A juatm nt n rotrction bill
(See Section VI, subdivision (s).)
GDS.
7.

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.91)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
804.0 P.R./76
SEE
FOR
Japem
Grow
Pobrunry 6,1934
FROM
..) DATED
TO
NAME
3
REGARDING:
Opening of the Diet on January 23, reported and party
aligment is prøéd reported in press as follows;
(seo copy attachod)

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.96)
HOUSE OF PEERS
Members of the Imperial Family
18
Keakyukai
4
110
59胃男支品
Koseikai
Keyu Club
Kayokai
Dowakai
Dosekai
Indopendents
Vacancies
6
Total...
366
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Seiyakai
291
Minssito
120
Kokumin Domei
32
First Lobby Group
8
Vacancies
15
Total...
466

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032
894.00 P.R./88
Despatoh 1007
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
0ct. 11, 1934.
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
33
REGARDING: The proceedings of the Diet, during the month of September, 1934. 
FRG.

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.93)
ThaD1et
Various political elements rove for some time been
omanding the convocation of a special session of the
Diet before the holging of th: regular session in December,
notably the Seiyukal, the majority politieal party.* Rea-
sons advanced for the extraordinary session have eentered
around the necessity for the enactment of legislation to
relieve the rice an" sily cocoon f rmers, though the Se1-
yukai, in a lition, has harbored the idea of injecting
politic l iscucsions into th: Diet session, if oalled,
for th s party is sti l at od  with the C binet. The
Government, which he hitherto turner a deaf ear to such
cemar s, was placed in a posit on where it could no
longer  fuse to c 1: a spocial session whe the results
of th. dev stution wrought by the Osaka typhoon an tiral
WAY0
*See previous onthly henorts.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.97)
-48
wave of Beptember l became known. The press reported
that on the rocommen atlon of Home Ninister Goto, who had
made & tour of nspection in an aroun Osaka, the Cabinet
hud on September 28 resolved to c ll a special session of
the Diet in October or November. The concensus of news-
paper opinion was to the effect that the Government had
decided upon this ste? solely because of ths pressing need
for finanei.l relief in the districts revaged by the typhoom
and tidal wave, and not in response to the entreaties of the
Seiyukai for the enactment of farm relief measures. There
was a great deal o! speculat'on ir the pres: as to whether
the Government weuls be able to confine the ciscussions of
the extruordinary Diet se sion to relief measures and pre-
vert di cus ton of such political cuestions as naval dis-
armament, th reor  nizat on of the administrative system
in Manchuria, an  ssolution of the Diet with consequent
gerera! slections. Most of the newspapers ars of the opinion,
however, that in any c se the political partles will not use
the special session t criticize or attack the Government,
and that even if the isarmament  uest on 1s broumht to
the fore, th purpose of this nove wil e only to strengthen
the Covernment's pan an unify public opinion on this issue.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JS
GRAY
RECEIVED
TOKYO
NOV 30 1934
Datod Novombor 30, 1934
DIVISION OF
Rcc'd 29th 11:52 p.m.
tre
Division of
Socrctary of Stato,
NOV 30 1934
Washington, D.C.
264, Novomber 30, 11 .m.
Amau informed a mumber of my staff that tho spoech
of thc Ministor for Foreign Affairs bcforo tho Dict
894.032/134
this morning has boon telugraphcd in full to the
Japanose Embassy at Washington for distribution to
the pross. I shall not thorofore tolograph a summary
of the spcoch.
GREW
JS
DEC3-1
FILED
1934

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 3, 1935.
LDS:
Tokyo's despatch No. 1088, dated
December 10, 1934:
This despatch discusses the proceedings
of an estraordinary session of the-Diet
convened on November 28 to enact relief
measures for districts which are suffering
from depression and from natural calamities.
Two supplementary budget bills were passed
providing for a total appropriation of
Yen 81,202,513. Other relief measures were
enacted.
The Government was not able to confine
discussion to relief measures. Interpella-
tions were addressed to the Government
regarding the preponderance of military
appropriations in the national budget;
increased expenditures in Manchuria; con-
tinued issuance of deficiency bonds, etc.
Aside from the measures finally adopted,
the following developments were important:
the defeat of the Seiyukai by the Government
and a consequent loss of prestige by that
Party, the failure of efforts to restore the
functioning of constitutional Government, and
further manifestations of the seemingly un-
assailable position of the military in the
political life of the country.
WTT/DLY
894.032/135

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 10, 1934.
No. 1088.
Subject: Proceedings of the Extraordinary Session
of the Diet.
894.032
Cofdin FE (381)
11.2
00
11M
CMUNICATIONS
934  2  3
 DS
Divin of
FAR EASTERR AFFAIRS
DEC 29 1934
Tilo
Dapartmant of Srite
894.032/135
Falb
cm
Grade 
For
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
As forecasted by the press,* the Government was
not able to confine the discussions of the Extraordinary
Session of the Diet to relief measures, the enactment of
which was the reason for calling a special session. Such
troublesome subjects were brought up for iscussion as the
preponderance of Army and Navy appropriations in the 1935-
JAN 8 11995
36 national budget, increased expenditures in Manchuria,
the continued issuance of red ink bonds, the pamphlet re-
cently issued by the Army, the dependence of national se-
curity
*See Section III, (f) The Diet, of the Monthly Report for
October, 1934.
** Embassy's despatch No. 1031, November 1, 1934.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
curity upon sound financial, industrial, and commercial
conditions, dissolution of the Diet with consequent
general elections, and the failure of the Government to
convene the special session at an earlier date. Never-
theless, the Government accomplished its main aims, which
were success in withstanding the attack of the majority
party in the Lower House and the approval of a tolerably
small supplementary budget for relief.* Aside from the
five measures finally enacted, the following were the
most important developments and results of the Diet pro-
ceedings: the defeat of the Seiyukai by the Government
and a consequent loss of prestige by that Party; the fail-
ure at present of efforts to restore the functioning of
constitutional Government in Japan;** a renewed manifesta-
tion of the seemingly unassailable position of the mili-
tary in the political life of the country; and a further
demonstration of the political astuteness and skill of Mr.
Takahashi, who was taken into the Cabinet one day prior
to the formal opening of the Diet.
The extraordinary session of the Diet was formally
convened by the Emperor on November 28 in the House of
Peers with the reading of an Imperial Rescript. The fol-
lowing day Premier Okada delivered an ad ress before a
plenary session of the House of Peers in which he reas. ert-
ed Japan's naval policy in general terms, touched on the
urgent need for the relief of those rural districts which
were suffering from the economic depression or had been
visited with natural calamities, stated that the funds
reguired
*See previous Monthly Reports.
**Embassy's despatches No. 308,July 31, 1934, and No.
1068, November 30, 1934.

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
required for relief of the distressed districts would
be raised solely by the issuance of Government Bonds,
emphasized the need for bringing about a solution of
the rice problem, and expressed regret that there had
been trouble over the project for reorganization in
Manchuria, at the same time remarking that this diffi-
culty had been settled amicably and that the reorgani-
zation plan was operating with success. On November
30 the Minister for Foreign Affairs read a speech on
Japan's foreign policy before the Upper House and later
before the Lower House. In his speech Mr. Hirota remark-
ed on the improvement in the relations with Soviet Rus-
sia, expressed gratification over the satisfactory trade
relations with India following the conclusion of the
Trade Convention, gave voice to the hope that the trade
conference at Batavia would end in an agreement, and
stated th t Japan's naval desires were a naval force
adequate for national security and at the same time the
establishment of the principle of non-menace and non-ag-
gression. This speech contained no specific discussion
of the London naval conversations, Sino-Japanese relations,
and Japan's difficulties in the matter of foreign commerce.
Interpellations conmenced on Dec mber 1 and severe! days
later the Lower House vegan to discuss the Government's
supplementary relief budget. On December 5 these budget
discussions were delayed by a Seiyukai motion that a sum
of ¥180,000,000 be ad ed to the relief budget. As a result
of this delay the deliberations of the Diet were extended
twice by Imperial decree. The Diet was formally adjourned
on

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.97)
-4 -.
on December 10, after it had passed the relief budget
as submitted by the Government and after 12 days of re-
portedly intense discussion, although the duration of the
session had originally been fixed at seven days.
Interpellations.
A
Among the many outstanding interpellations and Cabinet
answers in the House of Represenatives were the following:
Mr. Yamamoto, the leading interpellator of the Seiyukai,
asserted that the present Government was bureaucratic and
accused Premier Okada of desiring a dictatorship and of
ignoring the political Parties, to which Premier Okada re-
plied that he favored constitutional Government an had not
disregarded the political Parties; Mr. Nakashima, of the
Minseito, asked if the Army intended to carry out its ideas
concerning the economic reform of Japan, and in reply
General Hayashi declared that the Army had no intention of
putting its economic theories into practice at once, thus
leaving the Lower House in ignorance as to whether such
an intention existed with regard to the future; and another
Minseito member stated in an interpellation that national
security could not be achieved, n matter how large the
military appropriation might be, if the farmers remained
in their istressed condition, to which Admiral Okada
responded that he was in agreement with the view that the
farmers should be afforded relief; and, upon being ques-
tioned concerning the Government's recently announced
emergency tax plan, the Premier saic that the Government
did not consider the present time favorable for a general
tax

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
tax increase.
Legislation Enacted.
Two supplementary budget bills were passed providing
for a total appropriation of ¥81,202,513 (about $24,360,754)
to be spent over a period of 16 months: ¥80,954,814 for
relief in the districts affected by natural disasters,
¥187,536 for sending delegates to the trade conference
at Batavia, and ¥60,163 for the creation of the proposed
Manchurian Affairs Bureau in the Cabinet(the last named
sum is to be approriated only if the Diet in its regular
1935 session approves the Government's bill for the re-
organization of Japanese administration and representation
in Manchuria). Another bill was passed providing for a
reduction of taxes for the benefit of persons wh suffered
from the storm and flood disasters of July 1l and September
21, respectively. A fourth bill enacted provides for the
distribution of Government-owned rice to the inhabitants
of those northeastern prefectures which are suffering
from a small rice crop. A further bill was passed providing
that Law No. 5 of 1934, which authorizes the Government
to issue a national loan to the amount of ¥606,900,000 for
financing the general account expenditures for the 1935-36
fiscal year, shall be amended to the end that the Govern-
ment may increase this national 1oan to ¥676,100,000.
The two budget bills caused a great deal of discussion
in the House of Representatives but met with relatively
little difficulty in the House of Peers. Viscount Maeda,
however, st ted to the Peers before their approval of the
bill had been given, that compared with other expenditures
in the 1935-36 budget the relief budget was too small,
that the Government had neglected its duty by not conven-
ing

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
ing the session at an earlier date, and that he doubted
the sincerity of a statement made by the Government to
the effect that additional relief measures would be taken
in the future, if necessary.
Loss of Prestige by the Seiyukai as a Result of its
Actions in the Course of the Diet Proceedings.
According to newspaper reports, the Seiyukai employ-
ed political tactics that caused resentment on the part
of the Government and wide-spread derrogatory criticism
of the Party. In the first place, this Party took up
a considerable amount of time in attacking the Minister
of Justice for the employment of alleged third degree
methods in the examination by the judicial authorities of
persons suspected of bribery. Several Seiyukai members
called attention to the discrepancies between military
appropriations and non-military appropriations in the 1935-
36 budget and then roceeded to change the subject in de-
feren. to or in fear of the military. The final fatal
step t: en by the Seiyukai was the presentation of a motion
in the h  se of Representatives Budgetary Committee which
demanded une addition of ¥130,000,000 to the relief funds
under oiscussion, with the provision that if the Government
did not accede to this demand the Seiyukai Party "would
not permit" the continuance of celiber&tions on th relief
budget. This sum seemed abnormally high to the Government
in view of the fact th t it would have been difficult, if
not impossible, to find the mechanical means of handling
such an amount. The principal feature of the demand that
incensed the Cabinet, however, was that the motion came
as

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
as a complete surprise and was obviously an attempt at
filibustering. The Cabinet unanimously decided to reject
the Seiyukai motion and informed the Seiyukai that it would
dissolve the Diet and call for new elections rather than
agree to the demand in question, whereupon the Seiyukai
yielded and agreed that the relief budget deliberations
should proceed. Apparently the majority party was appre-
hensive concerning its ability to maintain its majority
in the Lower House if new elections sno ld be held.
The action of the Seiyukai was criticised by the Koku-
min Domei. Since the motion had been presented without
the knowledge of the Minseito, that Party was, according
to reports, indignant and it even threatened to abandon
the Seiyukai-Minseito "coalition". It will be remembered
that when the cooperation plan was announced on November
26, the so-called coalition was pregnant of little prorise
of concerted action between th to purtics.*
The Failure at Present of Efforts on the Part of the
Political Parties to Restore the Functioning of Consti-
tutional Government in Japan.
When the Government issued its above-mentione ultima-
tum to the Seiyukai, it ap arently fclt sure of its position,
and the f ct that that Party promptly capitul ted strengthened
tie entrenchment of th present nat oral C: binct and lessen-
ed thc ch nces of : returr t constitut:onal party govorn-
ment iu the near future. The G vernment's st: tus was also
enhnced by the dissaffection of the Minseito from the Sei-
yukai. The bulk of editorial comnent vigorously attacked
the Seiyukai for its attempt at obstruction an: for its
other
*Embassy's despatch No. 10c8, November 70, 1974.

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
other ill-chosen maneuvers, one newspaper branding the
party's meekness as "abject", another describing it as a
threat not backed up by action. RENGO of December 7 re-
marked that for the first time since its organization,
the Okada Cabinet ha: enjoyed the solid support of the
press in its parliamentary struggle with the Seiyukai.
A Renewed Manifestation of the Supromacy of the Mili-
tary in Political Affairs.
Although several interpellations in the Diet contain-
ed criticisms of the large appropriations for the Army and
the Navy in the 1935-36 budget, the attacks were made half-
heartedly and the Government seems to have successfully
withstood them.
General Hayashi stated in answer to an interpellation
concerning the latest Army pamphlet that it had been is-
sued chiefly to persuade the population to sink domestic
conflicts and give attention to the general problem of
defense. The Army's success in crcating among the people
a feeling that Japan is threat ned by other Powers was ta-
citly admitted by Mr. Takahashi, wh  is reportec to have
state in the Diet proceedings that the propaganda about
the 1955-36 crisis hac crcated an atmosphere of uneasi-
ness which in itself constituted a crisis.* In reply to
an interpellation concerning th preponderance of mili-
tary appropri tions over other appropriations in the next
budget, the Finance Minister is alleged to have said that
the Okada Cabinet inherited the policies of the Saito
Cahinet, one of then being the principle that Japan should
maintain
*In this connection refercnce is made to the Embas. y's
despatc). No. 1079, Dec(mber 11, 1934.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
maintain a strong foreign policy, the backbone of which
was national defense.
Mr. Nakashima of the Minseito asserted that General
Araki, at the time he was War Minister, had promised that
by 1934 the military expenditures in "Manchukuo" would
have been reduced to a normal figure, whereupon General
Hayashi remarked that "circumstances had changed". Both
the War and Navy Ministers, in answer to questions con-
cerning the large 1935-36 military expenditures, stated
emphatically that all the reductions had been made that
could possibly be made in their respective budgets.
An instance of the weak manner in which the extra-
vagance of the military was queried by Diet members may be
found in statements attributed to Mr. Seigo Nakano of the
Kokumin Domei by the JAPAN CHRONICLE. Mr. Nakano is re-
ported to have asked whether the urgent questions of farm
relief and the food of the people were to be sacrificed
on the altar of military expenditure, and to have followed
this interrogation immediately with a lengthy defense of
the Army pamphlet. Accor ing to this newspaper, the Kokumin
Domei member steted that the Army had a right to express
itself pub icly as it had done and that neither General
Araki nor General Hayashi could have prevented its doing so.
As further evidence of the alleged timorousness with which
the Diet took up the cuestion of the relatively large mili-
tary appropriations, the following comment: ry from the KOKUMIN
SHIMBUN of December 1 may be citcd, as it appeared in trans-
lation:

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
lation: "When he(Mr. Yamamoto, chief interpellator of
the Seiyukai) referred to the huge military budgets in
comparison with relief measures, Mr. Yamamoto was doing
it while carefully looking at the faces of the military
and naval officers to see if they were not angry with him."
There is quoted below an excerpt from an editorial
on the Diet session which appeared in the JAPAN CHRONICLE
of December 5:
" The propaganda for the army and the "nation-
al crisis" is so intense and voluminous that
there are few indeed who can retain a complete
detachment of thought on the subject or apply
to it the usual standards that have to be ap-
plied when deciding on questions of expendi-
ture. In comparison with the magnitude of the
subject - the contrast between the expenditure
on defence in a time of undisturbed peace and
the paucity  funds available for the financial
and even the alimentary relief of the most im-
portant community in the nat:onal economy - the
remonstrances in the Diet werc few and feeble
indeed."
A Further Demonstration of Takahashi's Political As=
tuteness ard Skill.
Mr. Takahashi's adroit replies to inte pellations
in the Diet tended to increase his long standing prestige.
For example, Mr. Horikiri, a Se yukai member, severely
criticised the Finance Ministry for the manner in which
the budget had been fixed and Mr. Takahashi replied with
the remark that the interpellator had once becn Parlia-
mentary Vice Minister in the Finance Ministry and should
have the fullest understanding of budget making. After the
relief budget had been decided upon, the Finance Minister
stated that official efforts to make relief measures ef-
fective would be useles? unless the people in the afflicted
districts

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
districts exerted themselves. The success with which the
new Minister for Finance parried questions put to the
Cabinet would appear to lend weight to the opinion express-
ed at the time of his appointment to the effect that his
induction into the Cabinet would definitely strengthen
the Government's position.*
Inasmuch as there was not sufficient time after ad-
journment to translate the Diet proceedings as announced in
the OFFICTAL GAZETTE of the Japanese Government, the Embassy
had to rely on the newspapers for reports concerning the
various interpellations. The provisions of the bills enact-
ed, however, were obtained directly from the OFFICIAL
GAZETTE.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
803.
GDA:g
*Embassy's despatcr No. 1068, November 30, 1934.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM REOEIVED
JS
GRAY
RECEIVED
JAN 28 1935
DIVIBIUN I
Dated January 22, 1935
Reç'd 5:43 a.m
Secretary of State,
lus
Washington, D.C.
894.032/136
Department of State
12, January 22, 3 p.m.
Am informed that text of address of Minister
for Forcim Affairs delivered today before the Diet
is available in the Japanese Embassy in Washington,
GREW
JS
JAN 2 3 1935
FILED
F

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.90)
7
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
VNE
No.1178
London, January 22
DEBABTMENT OF STATE
PH
SUBJECT: Press reporting on Japanese
L
Foreien Secretary's Annual
Speech to the Diet.
shim t Nmman Darro
894.732
Division
FAR EASTERN AFF
772
COLFIDENTIAL.
AN 31 1935
Department of State
894.032/137
335 A 13
S
D RECRDS
For Distribution Check
Yes
No
Grile
To fi ll
For
In U.S.A.
CN1
MID
The Honorable
COPIES SENT T
The Secretary of St.te,
O.N.L ANDM ID.
Washint,
19195
Sir:
FILED
I ir ve the Lonor t. stete tiet t e Ireus this
E
roin very verer liy curr reports ufr. irote's
anm ual speech to tie Diet ot foreig policy, t e text
of whieh was ivei out y the Japanese Lubassy. The
editorial comment has beer almost negligible, with
the exception of the TI is, nd in viow of the semi-
orricial co mection of this paper, t.ere are attached
1/
hereto a resumé of :r. : irota's speech from the Tokyo
2/ 3/ correspondent, a pertinent editorial, :nd tie text as
R/G
given out by the Japenese imbessy. I venture the
opinion /

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
opinion that the two former ere well worthy of care-
ful reading. Other pepers carrying editorials on
this subject are limited to tle Opposition papers,
the DAILY HERALD, which in a very brief article inter-
prets Mr. Hirota's remarks as "Japen gives another
warning to China", and the MAi CHSTER GuhRDIAN which,
although it makes no reference to Mr. Hirota on the
editorial page, does in an editorial article entitled
"An Elastic Frontier" state:
"It is reported from China (and ad-
mitted by Japanese authorities in Peking)
that troops are concentrating in the south-
west corner of 'Manchukuo'. Japan is at
present indulging ii a little 'frontier
rectification' in t is area, and, though
it is announced that uny difriculties will
be solved by diplomatic means, the troops
will no doubt te useful if the Chinese fail
to understend the argunents of the Japanese
diplomats."
What is worthy of notice, however, in :r. Hirota's
remarks :nd their interpretation by the TIlis is the
fact that certain usually well-inforned observers find
color ti erein for tl eir oiii ion thet while Ambassador
Matsudaira was publicly carryine on navul re otietions
with Sir John Simon nd the Lritish delegates in 1934,
he was ut tie e tine havim secret ana allegealy
unofficial conver.: ti ns, unbeknownst certeinly to the
Foreian Secretary and the brile inister, with  embers
of the Govern ent us to Tepunese policy in the Tar
Mast ard A. lo-Tapane: : cooperetion. (I this connec-
694.H115/3
tion, see Embassy's despatch :o.1169 or January 17,1935.)
Respectfully yours,
RayA
Charpé d'Afraires ad interim.
Enclosures:/

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
Enclosures:
1. Resumé of l.r. irota's speech,
from the TIMMS of Jan.22,1935;
2. Editorial from the TIMES of Jan.22;
3. Text of :r. Hirota's speech, from
the TIMES of Jan.22.
R/NW
T1

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
1178 Jam 22 1935
PAPER THE TD ES
NUMBER
CITY
LONDON
DATE
Jan. 22, 1935.
JAPANESE ROLE IN
ASIA
FOREIGN MINISTER'S
SPEECH
RELATIONS WITH CHINA
FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT
TOKYO, JAN. 22
Press predictions that 1935 will see a
new China policy launched gave special
interest to Mr. Hirota's references to
China to-day in his annual speech to the
Diet on foreign policy. Both warning and
invitation may be read into his carefully
chosen expressions. China was told that
her condition still gives Japan cause for
anxiety. She was invited to share with
Japan responsibility for peace and order
in the Far East. The hope was expressed
that she would awake to the realities of
the situation and realize Japan's power to
·assist her.
Those rounded phrases can hardly be
regarded as a contradiction of recent
rumours that China may be asked to free
herself from Western trammels and rely
on Japan instead. The speech seemed to
be inspired by the guiding principle of
"Eastern Asia first " and " Japan first in
Eastern Asia." It assumed that the power
of Japan as well as her interests give her
primacy in the Far East. With the rest
of the world she will cultivate friendship.
but Mr. Hirota's silences even more than
his words implied that she regards the Far
East as her sphere.
BRITAIN AND AMERICA
Great Britain and America came in for
special mention, each in the friendliest
manner, but with a significant difference
of tone. Conflict with the United States
was unimaginable, said the Minister, but
when he added that cooperation between
Japan and Great Britain would be a
really important contribution to world
peace, he seemed to be thinking of more
than the mere continuance of peaceful
relations.
The hope Mr. Hirota expressed once
before that demilitarized frontiers would
be established between Russia and Japan
reappeared in his suggestion that the
Moscow Government should consider the
military works it has erected near the
Manchurian border. The Soviet Govern-
ment will easily perceive that fortifications
along the Amur are less important than
submarine and air bases at Vladivostok.
Mr. Hirota repeated that Japan did not
propose to launch out in naval construc-
tion, but hoped to reach agreement based
on a new formula. The speech concluded
with an admonition addressed to Mr.
Hirota's countrymen that if Japan was to
consolidate her position and realize her
purposes extreme caution would be
necessary as well as strong determination.
A report of Mr. Hirota's speecht appears
on the preceding page.
JEHOL BORDER DISPUTE
FROM OUR CORRESPONDENT

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
invitation may be read into his carefully
chosen expressions. China was told that
her condition still gives Japan cause for
anxiety. She was invited to share with
Japan responsibility for peace and order
in the Far East. The hope was expressed
that she would awake to the realities of
the situation and realize Japan's power to
· assist her.
Those rounded phrases can hardly be
regarded as a contradiction of recent
rumours that China may be asked to free
herself from Western trammels and rely
on Japan instead. The speech seemed to
be inspired by the guiding principle of
"Eastern Asia first" and " Japan first in
Eastern Asia." It assumed that the power
of Japan as well as her interests give her
primacy in the Far East. With the rest
of the world she will cultivate friendship,
but Mr. Hirota's silences even more than
his words implied that she regards the Far
East as her sphere.
BRITAIN AND AMERICA
Great Britain and Amerioa came in for
special mention, cach in the friendliest
manner, but with a significant difference
of tone. Conflict with the United States
was unimaginable, said the Minister, but
when he added that cooperation between
Japan and Great Britain would be a
really important contribution to world
peace, he seemed to be thinking of more
than the mere continuance of peaceful
relations.
The hope Mr. Hirota expressed once
before that demilitarized frontiers would
be established between Russia and Japan
reappeared in his suggestion that the
Moscow Government should consider the
military works it has erected near the
Manchurian border. The Soviet Govern-
ment will easily perceive that fortifications
along the Amur are less important than
submarine and air bases at Vladivostok.
Mr. Hirota repeated that Japan did not
propose to launch out in naval construc-
tion, but hoped to reach agreement based
on a new formula. The speech concluded
with an admonition addressed to Mr.
Hirota's countrymen that if Japan was to
consolidate her position and realize her
purposes extreme caution would be
necessary as well as strong determination.
A report of Mr. Hirota's speech appears
on the preceding page.
JEHOL BORDER DISPUTE
FROM OUR CORRESPONDENT
PEKING, JAN. 21
The Jehol Deader incident, which both
sides have beer reating as a local issue,
has been virtually settled without resort
to force, but the general problem of the
western border of Jehol north of the
Great Wall remains. The Japanese are
not pressing the matter at present, how-
ever, in view of Chinese reluctance to
discuss the question.
The Chinese complained that Japanese and
Manchukuo troops were concentrating in
Western Jehol for the purpose of expelling
Chinese militia from a disputed area of the
adjoining province of Chahar.

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
1178 Jan 22 1935
PAPER
THE TIMES
NUMBER
CITY
LONDON
DATE
Jan. 22, 1935.
Japanese Foreign Policy
Vladivostock are to Russia; but the Soviet
Little exception can be taken to the tone of Government are likely to think more than twice
Mr. Himota's latest statement of the policy of before they divest themselves of all power to
member. Even in China, where the forcible In the analogous case of China no one denies
seizure of Manchuria and its conversion into that Japan stands in a special relationship
the client-State of Manchukuo have left bitter to that country. But other nations, Great
Tokyo. In this, the most important section of his
question, more than ever insistent since the
carefully prepared speech, he has fulfilled his
denunciation of the Washington Treaty by
countrymen's expectation that the present year
a Power which is about to withdraw from the
would be marked by an attempt to place Japano-
League, how these Powers can defend their
Chinese relations on a firmer and friendlier
great Far Eastern interests if they accept the
footing. He admitted, as no statesman with
Japanese suggestions for the abolition of naval
a sense of reality could fail to admit,
"offensive weapons," such as large battleships
that the state of China still gave some cause
and aircraft carriers. On this subject, it may be
for anxiety. But it may be noted that the dis-
hoped, the Japanese Government will have more
turbing element to which he referred in par-
to say at a later date. In the meantime their
ticular was precisely that with which the Chinese
spokesman's statement of policy, if it does not
Government are still engaged in a truceless war
offer an acceptable solution of the problem of
—the Communist party and its armies; and
naval disarmament, is couched in terms which
that in the same context he included the
may dissipate the immediate anxieties of the
"Sovietization "—the use of this word is sug-
other two chief naval Powers. Mr. HiroTA's
gestive—of Sinkiang or Chinese Turkestan
explicit denial that Japan intends to expand her
among the causes of Japanese concern. The
naval armaments is particularly important.
desire to affirm his country's intention of retain-
ing its political primacy in the Far East, to
impress the Nanking Government with the
advantages of cooperation with their mighty
neighbour, and at the same time to dispel Chinese
(and other) suspicions of aggressive Japanese
designs on Chinese territory appear to have
inspired the "new policy" which he has
outlined.
While the JAPANESE FOREIGN MINISTER'S
invitation to China is obviously the chief feature
of his speech, his conciliatory references to
Russo-Japanese relations are little less im-
portant. They mark the relaxation, if not the
disappearance, of the tension between Japan and
the Soviet Union which aroused general
anxiety last year. Their tone is strikingly
conciliatory. The possibility of the "hearty
"cooperation" of the U.S.S.R. with Japan (or,
for that matter. with any non-Communist
Government) seems a little nebulous, but con-
siderations of economy and prudence should
dictate to both at least a temporary affectation
of neighbourliness. At the same time MR.
HiRoTA's suggestion that the frontiers between
Russia and Manchukuo might with advantage
be demilitarized seems under realistic examina-
tion to be open to the same criticism as the
Japanese proposals which were discussed
during the recent conversations on naval
disarmament. Manchukuo and, still more,
Korea are admittedly of greater relative
importance to Japan than the Amur Valley and

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.99)
3
1110dan 22 19 35
PAPER
THE TIMES
NUMBER
CITY
OATF
LONDON
Jan. 22, 1935.
Imperial and Foreign
many long years. Of course we are resorting to
no unfair devices for the expansion of our trade,
while the development of our industries confers
substantial benefits on many countries which pro-
JAPAN'S AIMS
duce raw material, and at the same time ministers
directly to the welfare of multitudes of con-
sumers throughout the world. Moreover, our
foreign trade, expanded as it is, actually amounts
ABROAD
country oscupies only seventh or eighth place
among the principal trading nations of the
world.
HOPE OF NEW
more and more by the intelligent public of all
Fortunately these facts are being understood
countries. While cultivating such understanding
NAVAL PACT
to a greater degree and upholding our position
on an absolutely fair and just basis, we shall
strive to obtain an adjustment of mutual interests
The Japanese Embassy in London has
with every one of the Powers concerned.
issued the text of a speech made before
WITHDRAWAL FROM LEAGUE
In conclusion Mr. Hirota said he wished
the Diet in Tokyo this morning by Mr.
to emphasize the need of extreme caution
Hirota, the Japanese Foreign Minister.
as well as strong determination on the
It is a cardinal principle of our foreign policy
part of their people if in the midst of the
(Mr. Hirota said) to promote Japan's peaceful
complicated and unsettled conditions
and friendly relations with every country of the
which nowadays universally characterized
world and to develop further cultural and com-
mercial intercourse.
international relationships they were to
Now that the work of laying the national
consolidate their position and to realize
foundations of Manchukuo has been completed
the consummation of their policy and
her future progress will largely depend, I believe,
purpose.
on unreserved cooperation between her people
Japan's withdrawal from the League of
and ours. Especially in the economic field it may
Nations will become effective on March 27 next
well be expected that by ministering to each
(he said), and ours will be a greater burden of
other's wanis we shall be able to achieve an ample
responsibility. But the road for Japan to take
these circumstances one cannot but be moved
measure of mutual well-being and prosperity. In
has long been chosen.
Our foreign policy is such as I have stated.
greatly by the announcement that his Majesty the
After all, the foreign relations of a country are
Emperor of Manchukuo will visit his Majesty the
the reflection of the moral power and material
add to the ties of amity between the two imperial
Emperor of Japan at Tokyo this spring and thus
ance with the august will of his Majesty, fall
strength of its people. If all of us, in conform-
houses.
to work together and do what lies in our power
WASHINGTON TREATY
it will not be difficult, I am sure, to surmount
Coming to the question of naval disarm-
any obstacles we may encounter. In face of the
ament, Mr. Hirota said the fundamental
gravity of the present international situation
I wish to appeal specially for the united support
policy of the Japanese Government in the
of the whole nation.
present negotiation was to carry out in full
a sweeping reduction of armaments and
to effect the total abolition or drastic limi-
tation of offensive armaments so as to free
each Power from the menace of other
Powers, and, in fact, to make it impossible
for any Power to menace another.
The Washington Treaty of Naval Limitation
of 1922 having now become incompatible with
our basic policy (he continued), our Govern-
ment notified the Government of the United
States on December 29 last year of Japan's in-
tention to terminate that Treaty in accordance
with its provisions. In consequence the Wash-
ington Treaty ceases to be in force as from the
last day of December, 1936. This step must
not be taken to mean that we intend to launch
out on any expansion of our armaments, which
is far from our thoughts. On the contrary, we
look forward to the conclusion of another pact
to supersede the Washington Treaty, a pact basej
on a new formula which shall be truly consonant
with the spirit of disarmament.
We sincerely hope—and are devoting our best
efforts—to bring about an early resumption of
the negotiations for the achievement of a new
and equitable agreement which will embody the
principles of non-aggression and non-menace and
effect an actual and sweeping reduction of arma-
ments, and advance thereby the cause of world
peace.
Japan and the United States have been bound
not only by the vital economic relationship of a
mutual interdependence unparalleled elsewhere,
but also by the historical bond of friendship
ever since the commencement of their inter-
course.
There exists no question between
the two countries which it is intrinsically
difficult to solve amicably. Certainly it is un-
imaginable that there should be any cause of
conflict between two countries separated by the
vast expanse of the Pacific.
RELATIONS WITH BRITAIN
As for our former ally Great Britain, while it
is certain that in order to safeguard our over-
seas trade we have yet to discuss various matters
with that country, I cannot think of any part
of the globe where an adjustment of interest
between us might be considered in any way un-
attainable. It is needless to say that good un-
derstanding and cooperation between Japan and
Great Britain constitutes a really important con-
tribution to the peace of the world.
It is in consideration of these relationships
that the Japanese Government have carried on
pesotiations with America and Great Britain in

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
confict between two countries separated by the
vast expanse of the Pacific.
RELATIONS WITH BRITAIN
As for our former ally Greet Britain, while it
seas trade we have yet to discuss various matters
between us might be
attainable. It is neadlese to say that good un-
derstanding and cooperation between Japan and
Great Britain constitutes a really important con-
tribution to the peace of the world.
It is in donsideration of these relationships
that the Japaness Governmess have carried on
negotiations with America and Great Britain in
accordeace with the spirit expressed above. And
it is im the apirit of this policy that we wish to
deal with all other countries, espocially with our
neighbour States, with which we are anxious to
foster good will and fraternal santiments with-
out agy mutual menace.
"We have been guided wholly by the
same spirit in all our negotiations with the
Soviet Union," Mr. Hirota went on.
The present negotiations on the transfer of the
North Manchurian Railway have made further
progress since I last spoke, and it will not perhaps
be long before agreement is reached. If the
transfer serves to eliminate a source of such dis-
putes as have occurred hitherto so frequently
along that railway, and to strengthen the friend-
ship between Japan, Manchukuo, and the Soviet
Union, the prime objective of the present negotia-
tions will have been attained.
Our Government are planning to accelerate the
peaceful development of Soviet-Japanese rela-
tions by redoubling their efforts for a solution of
other pending problems. To that end hearty
cooperation on the part of the Soviet Union is, of
course, essential. In this connexion I cannot but
hope that the Soviet Government will give special
consideration to 'the question of military works
in the Far East, especially along the Soviet-
Manchukuo frontiers, with a view to promoting
mutual trust and assurance.
GOOD WILL TO CHINA
Mr. Hirota said that in the Chinese
political situation many serious possi-
bilities were still latent.
While fortunately the main strength of the Red
armies in the region of Kiangsi and Fukien
appears to have been driven away from those
territories by the expeditionary forces sent by the
Government (he said) remaining units of these
armies are said to be establishing contact with
their allies in Kweichow and Szechwan and there-
abouts and moving westward into remoter
regions. In view of this fact, coupled with
reports of the Sovietization of Sinkiang, the
Japanese Government will be obliged to continue
to watch with concern the activities of the Com-
munist Party and armies in China.
Again, it is to be regretted that even now in
certain localities of China anti-Japanese agitation
has not yet been completely brought to an end.
Japan attaches great importance to her friend-
ship with other States in Eastern Asia, and counts
on their participation in bearing the serious
responsibilities for the maintenance of peace and
order in this part of the world.
I fervently hope therefore not only that China
will soon recover her stability but that she will
awaken to a realization of the whole situation
of Eastern Asia and undertake to meet the
genuine aspirations of our country. In view of
our position as China's neighbour and the stabiliz-
ing force in Eastern Asia it is our policy to try
to assist China in the attainment of this goal.
I may add that the Japanese Government are
glad to acknowledge the fact that, as has been
pending questions, there is to-day a growing
trend among the Chinese people to appreciate
the true motive of Japan.
While we will do everything to encourage that
us further in that direction.
FOREIGN TRADE
Turning to Japan's trade relations
Mr. Hirota said that the policy of trade
restriction exemplified in the promulga-
tion of high Customs tariffs, import
restrictions, exchange control, and ex-
change compensation duties, &c., was as
prevalent as ever among foreign countries.
Some of them have even gone so far as to
abrogate their commercial treaties with our
country (he continued). Such a situation is
extremely regrettable not only for the sake of
Japan, but also from the broader point of view
of the world's economic rehabilitation. Our
Government are endeavouring to come to a fair
agreement with each one of the Powers con-
cerned in order to have such measures of trade
restriction either modified or removed as far as
possible, and to promote the mutual interests of
both.
For a country like Japan, with a vast popula-
tion on the one、hand and meagre natural
resources on the other, foreign trade constitutes
an important peaceful means of livelihood. The
advance of Japanese commodities on the markets
of the world to-day is only the fruit of our
tion's united and indefatigable labours for

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.96)
DCR
DEPAH
PECEIVED
FEB 71935
JAN 23 1935
DIVISION OF
2251
AR-EASTERN AFFAIRS
tanuary 22, 1935.
JAN 24 1935
Degartment of State
Mr. Sdoretary:
fent you)
There is tn
herewith a
marked clipping containing the text
of the speech delivered today in the
Diet by the Japanese Minister for
Foreign Affairs. There is also
attached a memorandum which points
out those features of the speech that
are believed to be of special interest
to the Department and which, in the
final paragraph, sets forth FE's con-
clusions in regard to the significance
that should be attached to the speech.
nat
SKH/DLY

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.96)
226
BCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Divilic
FAR EASTERNRS
1935
FECEIVED
FEB 71935
January 22, 1935.
DIVISION OF
1n the Diet on January 22, 1935.
894,032
The speech reviewing Japan's foreign relations
delivered in the Diet today by the Minister for Foreign
Affairs gives marked indication of having been addressed
more to the world at large than to the Japanese people
894.032/1
and having been formulated with an eye primarily on
creating a certain desired effect on overseas opinion.
It contains at the same time a firm restatement of Japanese
foreign policy ("The road for Japan to take has long been
33
chosen.") and a plea for the restitution to Japan of the
8
good-will of other nations. It may thus in effect be
regarded as a declaration of desire to work toward the re-
sumption of Japan's former relations with its neighbors,
but on a basis acceptable to Japan.
The speech may be analyzed as follows:
1. At the forefront, there is the effusive
reference to the forthcoming visit to Japan of the "Emperor
of Manchukuo". In times not marked by stress, it would be
F
1
usual for the Minister for Foreign Affairs to make some
G
felicitous reference to the contemplated visit to Japan of
a foreign monarch; but, in view of the existing situation
in the Far East, the reference is obviously intended to
have a definite significance. It may be surmised that the
portion

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.98)
227
- 2 -
portion of the speech dealing with "Manchukuo" had a
two-fold purpose: one, to allay any suspicion likely to
arise in Japanese nationalistic quarters of the existence
of any divergence of opinion between the military element
and the civil government, and, two, to reaffirm to foreign
governments Japan's determination to maintain the situation
which it has brought about in Manchuria.
2. The portion devoted to naval limitation is a
restatement of previous Japanese declarations and contains
nothing new; but even as a restatement it usefully serves
Japan's purposes, for the reason that it operates to keep
alive the Japanese thesis in regard to "security",
"non-aggression" and"reduction of offensive categories"
which has undeniably made an impression upon the unthinking
both in this country and in Great Britain.
3. The reference to relations with the United States
1s brief, but it is of distinct interest to note that
Mr. Hirota has, by stating that "there exists no question
between the two countries which is intrinsically difficult
of amicable solution", sought to express assent to the
view set forth in the Secretary's reply to Mr. Hirota's
personal message of February last, that "there are in fact
no questions lying between our two countries which if they
be viewed in proper perspective in both countries can with
any warrant be regarded as not readily susceptible to
adjustment by pacific processes".
4.As

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
358
- 3. -
4. As predicted in press despatches from Tokyo,
Mr. Hirota's references to relations with the Soviet Union
are couched in substantially more friendly language than
was the case in his last two addresses to the Diet. It
will be noticed that Mr. Hirota concludes an apparently
optimistic forecast of developments in the relations between
the two countries with a request which is not of a reassur-
ing character -- that the construction by the Soviets of
fortifications along the Manchurian frontier cease.
5. Considerable space was devoted by Mr. Hirota to
Japanese relations with China. The language which he
used in urging China to collaborate with Japan in main-
taining peace in the Far East is unobjectionable, but
there is nothing in the statement which rules out the
plausibility of the prediction made by the Japanese press
that he would suggest to China cooperation with a view to
eliminating western political influence from the Far East.
Conclusion:
The speech does not offer any basis to suppose that
there has occurred any substantial change in Japan's
foreign policy. It contains material which may suggest de-
velopment of an unfavorable character (Sino-Japanese
relations) as well as of a favorable character (Soviet-
Japanese relations). The speech does not appear to warrant
any relaxation in the attitude of caution and reserve which
has been assumed by this Government in the conduct of
relations with the Japanese Government.

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.96)
229
JAN 22 1935
net
Assostated Press phote
to comé to
Foreign Minister Kad Mirete
me partioular attention to the naval
The Jepansee government is pay-
marmaament question. I had oc-
tween Japan and Great Britain con-
stitute a really important contribu-
tion to the peace of the world.
casion at the last messton to speak
It is in consideration of these re-
about the preliminary naval conver-
pations whlcn tobk plase at London
lationships that the Japanese gov-
ernrhent have carried on negotia-
portant péssetul means of livelé
between Japan, Great Britain and
tions with America and Great Brit-
the Umited States of America. The
ain in accordanee with the spirit
fundamental policy of, the Japanese
expreesed above. And it is in the
Géenaive arms so ap to free each
possible for any power to menace
abolition or drastic limitation pf
powers and, in fact, to make it im-
government in the present negotia-
tions is, as I then explained in full.
power from the menace of other
to arry out a sweeping reduction
of maments and  to effect total
with our neighbor states, with which
we are anxious to foster good will
and fraternal sentiments without
the same spirit in all our negotia-
tions with the Soviet Unlon. Pend-
spirit of this that we wish to deal
any mutual menace.
with all other countries, especially
We have been guided wholly by
fits on many countries which pro-
duce raw material and at the same
time minister directly to the wel-
trade while the development of our
industries conters substantial bene-
many lone years.
unfair devioss for expansion of our
Of course we are resorting to no
another.
ing negotiations on the transfer of
odme incompatible with our basic
limitation of 1s2s, having now be-
The Washington treaty of naval
the North Manchuria Railway have
made further progress since I last
spoke and it will not perhaps be
our foreign trade, expanded as it is,
actually amounts in volume to the
polley, our government notifed the
long before an agreement is reached.
government of the United States on
in accordance with ite provisionis.
intention to terminate that treaty
In consequence, the Washington
December 29 last year of Japan's
If transfer serves to eliminate the
source of such disputes as have oc-
friendahip between Japan, Man-
curred hitherto so frequently along
that railway and to strengthen
among the principal trading nations
trade, and our country occuples
only the seventh or eighth place
of the world.
chukuo and the Soviet Union. the
Negesiations With Holland
prime objective of the present ne-
gotiations will have been attained.
understood more and more by in-
Fortunately, these facts are being
Soviet-Japanese Relations
while oultivating such underatand-
to obtain adjustment of mutual in-
known their respective views more
or less definitely were adjourned on
espeeteyon sovo
December 20 as it was then deemed
tions
powers to consult their home gov-
sdvisable to enable delegates of the
fng mutual trust and ansurance.
or Tate the political arttiation in
ernments on results of the conver-
ranged. however. that close contact
sations mo far attained. It was ar-
That, except for nghsing between
China has been somewhat quist.
ing
dons for
pagotlations
follow
cancerned. Mowever, it sannot be
hereafter.
denied, if only in the light of his-
In conclusion, I wish to strems the
tory alone. that in the Chinese po-
need of extreme caution as well as
litical attuation many serious pos-
strong determination on the partof
will embody the pripaiples of non-
sibilities are still latent.
our people if in the midst of com-
and
While fortunately
main
plicated and unsettled conditions
strength of she Red armies in the
which nowadays universally char-
direction of Kiangai and Pukien ap-
acterize international relationship
by the eam
pears to have been driven away
we are to consolidate our position
from those tarritories by expedi-
tionary foross sent by the govern-
memt, remaining units of these
There
contact with sheir allles in Kwei-
abouts, and moving westward into
remoter reglons. fn view of this
fact, coupled with renorta of hoviat.
armies are said to be establishing
chow and Beechwan and there-
be a greater busden of responstbility.
The road for degan to take has lons
beéh chosen.
tions will beodme efßective om the
27th of March nest and ours will

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.96)
deliberation. However, the lal
te the political ntuation In
friendahip ever since the commence
ment of their intercourse. There
fact, coupled with reporte of bovist-
have stated. After all. foreign re-
government will be obliged to con-
latione of a opantry are the reflestion
tinue to watch with concern activi-
tles of the Communist party and
of the moral power and matarl
should be any cause df conflict be-
its armies in China.
strengta of its people. If all of ts
in congormance to the august will
Again it is to be regretted that
of nis majesty fall to work together
nse of the Pacific.
even now in certain looalitles of
and do whatlles in our power, it wilf
former ally, Great Brit-
China anti-Japanese agitation has
not be dimdult, I am sure, to sur-
is true that in order to
not yet been completely brought to
mount any obetátles we máy en
overseas trade we have
"atious matters with
an end.
portance
counter. In the face of presant in-
ternational situafton, I wiah to ap:
annot think of any
peal especially for the united sup
ween us might be
where adjustment
port of the whole mation.
I way unattainable.
The address of the Consulate Gen-
that good un-
eral of Japah in New York is so0 Pirth
meration be-
Avenue.

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.85)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Feb.25.1935.
9
S Moseoco's No.3 79 0
Tebruary 5,1935, sidical that
Hrota's Speech in the Drch
received more favorafle respouse
im the Soviel whion thaw prees
Respaletes frow Moscoid scesfested.
I sugtsh that it bo read.
20

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Moscow, February 5, 1935.
379
MAR13 1935
No.
Subjact: Soviet Reaction to Hirota's Speech
on Foreign Affairs.
200
DIVISION
OF EASTERN
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
MAR 11 1935
894.032/139
5
1101
For
ON1
14ID
COPIES SENT T
C V.I. AND M.ID
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
n1935
Washington, D.C.
FILED
Sir:
I have the honor to report that the speech of
the Japanese Foreign Minister, iirota, received in
general conciliatory comment in the Soviet press.
His allusions to the desire of the Japanese Government
to develop peaceful relations with the Soviet Union
and his remarks regarding the successful trend of the
negotiations for the sale of the Chinese Eastern Rail-
way were greeted with approval. However, the hope
which Mr. Hirota expressed thet the Soviet Government
would find it possible to examine the question of
Soviet
F
G

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Soviet fortifications in the Far Bast was criticized
as contradicting the expressed desire for friendly
relations.
PRAVDA on January 24th, after pointing out this
alleged contradiction, wrote: "We understand that
Japanese imperialistic circles, whose aims are to
prepare war on the U.S.S.R., are discontented with
the measures taken by the Soviet Government to protect
its frontiers against elements which have made 'easy
conquests' their specialty during the last years. It
is, however, difficult to understand how statesmen in
favor of 'acceleration of the development of peaceful
relations' can share this discontent."
Mr. Hirota's allusion to the "Sovietization" of
Sinkiang and to the presence of troops of the Red Army
there were denied with indignation by the Soviet press,
which ex, essed "astonishment in hearing the Japanese
Minister f- Foreign Affairs making use of these inven-
tions, whose cource is mostly Japanese."
The occasion
was used to restate Soviet policy in opposing any im-
perialistic conquest, especially in regard to China.
On January 29th PRAVDA printed a Reuter dispatch to
the effect that the military and civil governors of
Sinkiang had telegraphed Nanking denying the insinua-
tions contained in Mr. Hirota's speech and reaffirming
their loyalty to the Nanking Government.
The govern-
ors were reported as having stated that while foreign
advisers were employed in Sinkiang, their duties were
of a purely commercial and technical character.
They
admitted

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
admitted, however, that a loan from the Soviet Govern-
ment was under consideration. The Soviet sensitiveness
to Mr. Hirota's allusions in regard to Sinkiang and the
speedy denial of Soviet influence is in all probability
based on fear of arousing British apprehensions of
Soviet penetration in the proximity of India.
The Sowiet press has given publicity to unfavor-
able foreign comment on Mr. Hirota's speech and in par-
ticular to the observation of the London TIMES of January
22nd that Mr. Hirota's remarks regarding Soviet military
preparations in the Far East were open to the same criti-
cism from a realistic point of view as the Japanese
proposals regarding naval arms.
The conciliatory tone
of Mr. Hirota's speech in respect of relations with the
Soviet Union and the comparatively favorable comment of
the Soviet press are indicative, however of the recent
relaxation in tension which has lately characterized
Soviet-Japanese relations.
Indications are not lacking
that the Kremlin is tending to regard the West rather
than the East as the most dangerous so urce of war
against the Soviet Union.
Mr. Molotov's speech at
the opening of the VII All-Union Congress of Soviets
in respect of Japan reflected this tendency.
His
concluding remarks. however, on January 3l, were of
a distinctly more hostile tone.
Replying to Mr.
Hirota's speech to the Japanese Diet on January 25th
on the demilitarization of the Soviet-Manchurian fron-
tier in the spirit of the Treaty of Portsmouth, Mr.
Molotov cited numerous instances of Japanese failure
to

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.95)
to observe the provisions of this treaty, eapecially
concerning the return of Manchuria to China and the
removal of Japanese troops from the province. while
Mr. Molotov's remarks were critical in tone, it is not
expected that they will have much bearing on the present
course of Soviet-Japanese relations.
Respectfully yours,
Shne.nil
John C. Wley
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
qn
COPY TO RIGA AND TOKYO
File No. 710
CEB/HLA
X

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.93)
230
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 7, 1935.
No. 1162.
Subject:
Speech of the Foreign Minister, Mr.
Koki Hirota, Before the Regular Session
of the Diet.
D-PARTMENT OF SIA.E
Copy n H
20
894.032
STERU
894.032/140
ASS1b1A
ONI
2心
MID
1935
2
TO
O.N.1.A.1.D
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
MAR 13 1935
Sir:
FILED
I have the honor to observe that for the first time
since 1930 a For ign Minister of Japan has been able to
deliver a speech* on the country's foreign relations, as
Mr. Hirota did on January 2, 1935, at the opening of
the regular session of the Diet, and point with gratifi-
cation to a real improvement - at least in one direction.
F/FG.
The recent conclusion of the negotiations for the sale of
the North Manchuria Railway has made this possible with
respect to Sovict Russia.
*Embassy's telegram No. 12, January 22, 3 p.m.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
331
- 2 -
In form Mr. Hirota's speech was orthodox; in tone
perhaps more than ordinarily optimistic; and in substance
a model of carefully chosen expression cloaking at the same
time a purposeful policy of undisputed leadership in the
Far East. This policy, which is described by the Japanese
as "the preservation of peace in East Asia", has been enun-
ciated so often that it hardly seems necessary to repeat it.
Nevertheless, inasmuch as it is the basic factor with which
all nations have to contend in dealing with Japan, whether
it be in the field of naval disarmament, political questions
or commercial and economic problems, it may be found of in-
terest to review several of the public announcements made
in this connection during the past year.
In his speech to the Diet on January 23, 1934, Mr.
Hirota said: "We should not forget for a moment that Japan,
serving as the only cornerstone for the edifice of peace
of East Asia, bears the entire burden of responsibilities".
While this statement did not pass unnoticed, it was not
generally taken up until repeated in more direct form by
Mr. Amau in his now famous statement of April 17, 1934. He
said: "...at the same time we consider it only natural that,
to keep peace and order in East Asia, we must even act alone
on our own responsibility..." Nothing could be clearer than
these two announcements, following one another as they do.
The next reference to this policy is found in Mr. Hi-
rota's statement in his specch before the extraordinary ses-
sion of the Diet on November 30, 1934: "I am very pleased
to say that on the whole our relations with the various
countries of Asia, Europe and America have grown increasing-
ly cordial because better understanding now prevails among
the

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
232
- 3 -
the Powers regarding Japan's position in East Asia". This
is of particular interest in that it carries the implica-
tion of acceptance by the rest of the world of Japan's
policy and this is supported by Mr. Hirota's remarks before
the Diet two weeksago in which he said: "Japan attaches
great importance to her friendship with other states in
East Asia, and counts on their participation in bearing the
serious responsibilities for thc maintenance of peace in
this part of the world".
Bearing in mind, then, the nature of this announced
policy in the pursuit of which Japan has not hesitated to
resort to force of arms and presumably will not hesitate
to do so in the future, the repeatcd expressions by Mr.
Hirota in the speech under consideration of good will,
fraternal sentiments, non-aggression pects, friendship,
collaboration, cooperation anc peaceful purposes may be
viewed with perhaps a keener perception of the realities
involved.
Paragraph by paragraph Mr. Hirota in his speech takes
up Japan's relations with the various countries important
to her and with thc outstanding question of naval isarma-
ment. In most cases he deals with generalities and em-
phasizes Japan's peaceful puroo. es; the same time, however,
it is often possible to extract a kernel of fact from which
a conclusion may be dravm as to the Government's real in-
tentions regarding the various problems.
In dealing with "Manchukuo" Mr. Hirota avoids any di-
rect or indirect suggestion of recognition by other powers
and contents himself with the simple statcment that "the
work of laying th national foundations of Manchukuo has
been

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
233
4 -
been completed." By implication the question of recogni-
tion is for the time being at least a matter of indifference
to Japan. He emphasizes the economic importance of the
new state to Japan as well as the ties of friendship which
bind the two countries together.
Touching the question of the suspension of the preli-
minary naval conversations he says: "We sincerely hope for...
the achievement of a new equitable agreement which will
embody the principles of non-aggression and non-menace and
effect an actual and sweeping armament reduction..."
With the United States "there exists no question....
which is intrinsically difficult of an amicable solution",
and the "good understanding and cooperation betvween Japan
and Great Britain constitute really an important contribu-
tion to the peace of the world".
For the first time since his incumbency Mr. Hirota has
been able to speak vith a measure of guarded optimism about
the relations with the Soviet Union. Referring to the im-
pending settlement of the North Manchuria Railway question
he says that the Japanese Government is planning "to acce-
lerate the peaceful develorment of Soviet-Japanese relat:ons
by redoubling their efforts for the solution of other pend-
ing pro lems!, and he indicates thet the first problem to
be undertaken will be that of the establishment of a demili-
tar zed zone along the "Manchukuo"-Soviet frontier. That
this question is uppermost in the minds of the Japanese will
be found by reference to Mr. Hirota's speech before the Diet
in January of last year in which he said that no difficult
questions were encountered in Soviet-Japanese relations
fron the conclusion of the Peking Basic Treaty of 1925
even

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
234
even through the Manchurian Incident but that "recently
the attitude of Soviet Russia toward Japan seems to have
undergone a change... Japan is certainly setting up no
new military establishments along the Manchukuo-Soviet
frontiers". And recently, in reply to an interpellation
in the Diet on January 25, 1935, Mr. Hirota said: "I con-
template calling the attention of the Soviet Government
to the status of Soviet defense in the Far East, particu-
larly on the Soviet-Manchukuo frontier".
At this point it is highly significant to note that
the remarkable progress which Mr. Hirota has been able to
achieve in the improvement of relations with Soviet Russia
during the past year has come about only after the energetic
militarization and defense of the Eastern Provinces by the
Soviet Government and tlis fact may prove an object lesson
from which other nations may well profit in dealing with
Japan.
In describing Japan's problems in relation to China,
the Foreign Minister emphasizes the communist dangers
abroad in that country, possibly wit the intention of ap-
pe:ling to the othcr foreign countries. He also makes an
indirect appeal for a terminat on of the anti-Japanese boy-
cott in China. In connection with recent tele rams from
Peiping regar ing the runor thut Chiang Kai Shek has de-
cided to adopt a policy of "coorcination" with Japan, there
may be a int in this direction in Mr. Hirota's statement:
"I may ad? that the Japanese Government are glad to acknow-
ledge the fact that....there is today a growing trend among
the Chinese people to appreciate the true otive of Japan.
While we will do everything to encourage this tendency,
I

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
-6 -
235
I hope that China will collaborate with us further in
that direction".
He finds the foreign trade situation, in which some
countries have abrogated their commercial treaties with
Japan to be "extremely regrettable" and he makes the fol-
lowing statement which in some ways may be considered as
the most important statement in his speech: "For a country
like Japan with a vast population on the one hand and meagre
natural resources on the other, foreign trade constitutes
an important peaceful means of livelihood". The word "peace-
ful" gives this sentence its significance for it brings
to mind the only possible alternative, namely that Japan
would otherwise be driven to seck means of livelihood by
force.
There follows a reference to the failure of the Batavia
Trade parley and a conventional expression to the effect that
it removed misunderstandings and clarified the respective
positions of Japan and the Netherlands.
In conclusion Mr. Hirota mentions thc foct that Japan's
withdrawal from the League of Nations will become effective
on March 27, next, and exhorts the nation to exert itself
in the pursuance of its p licy and purpose.
Careful reading of the Foreign Minister's address will
reveal that however important may be the varied and widely
diffused problems with which Japan has to deal, the all-
import nt, the vital, inescapable f ctor in eac! one is China.
It is Japan's relationship to China and her intense pre-occupa-
tion vith the chaotic political con it ons thcre which basi-
cally govern her relations with other nations; and it is the
policy of those nations in dealing with China which affects
their

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
236
- 7 -
their relationship with Japan. It is this question which
is at the root of Japan's "preservation of peace in East
Asia" policy; it is this question which has determined the
course of the naval conversations at London; it is this
question which all but brought Soviet Russia into open
conflict with Japan and which, indeed, has done so in the
past. The politico-economic struggle with which both the
United States and Great Britain are engaged with Japan has
its basis fundamentally in the question of China. Remove
that guestion and Japan's relations with the rest of the
world would be as normal as those of other nations with
each other.
1/
In this connection I enclose an article by Baron Yoshiro
Sakatani, member of the House of Peers, as it appeared in
the JAPAN ADVERTISER of January 9, 1935. He develops this
thesis in an interesting manner and makes several statements
which assume considerable importance, especially when read
in conjunction with the Foreign Minister's speech. Baron
Sakatani says that no close student of the preliminary
naval conversations at London car fail to note "a dark un-
dercurrent which poisons the minds of the delegations; and
that current has its fountain-head in the discrepancies of
opinions regarding the policy toward China".
He claims
that the United States places over-emphasis upon the "so-
called Open Door" in China an maintains that those British
and American stat smen who fear that to give Japan complete
freedom of cction in the East would jeopardize their in-
terests in China are under a grave misapprehension.
To those who may feel that Mr. Hirota's avowal of
peaceful purposes and concilictory methods are to be taken
at

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
237
-8-
at their face value, the following passages in Baron
Sakatani's article should be studied: "If England and
America aim to form their own policies toward China in-
dependently of Japan, the two nations would be attempt-
ing a thing imprudent and unwise". And, again: "One
can imagine no greater obstacle to the peace of the world
than that England and America, backed by their powerful
navies, should assume the leadership in the Far East".
Thinly veiled threats, these, and clothed in the
language of diplo acy, but not to be in any sense ignored.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1/Clipping, JAPAN ADVERTISER,
January 9, 1935.
710.
ESC:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
to despatch
Tokyo, Wednesday, January 9, 1935.
basey at sokvo
238
NAVY IMPASSE LAID
co-operatibh atong the Chiniese peo-
ple are d becolaary makashift td coun-
ternct séé strust and suspician
TO CHINA POLICIES
whish extet between the ruler and the
ruled.
Under the circumstances, it is no
easy task to lend China into modern
civilization and make her enjoy s'good
Baron Yoshiro Sakatani Blames
government. Japan drank a cup of
bitter experience in this regard. I
Clash of Powers' Attitudes
myeelf, as a fnancial adviser to her.
underwent the similar experience.
. on Interests There
What I had in mind to do in the in-
terest of China. was most successfully
açhieved by my son. Kichi Sakatani.
DENIES DESIGNS BY JAPAN
in the new Empire of Manchukuo in
a year or two. because he was able to
work single handed, backed only by
Closing of Open Door in China
one country-Japan. Of course it
should clearly be understood that it
Would Hurt This Country
is up to the Chinese himself to feel
the deepest concern for the welfare
Too, He Asserts
and development of Chins, his own
country: but it should also be under-
stood that the Japanese is no less
The following article by Baron Yo-
anxious to see the establishment of a
shiro Sakatani, wellknown former
stable goverument in China. In this
statesman and diplomat, and a stu-
desire the Japanese might perhaps
dent of international aftairs, was writ-
outstrip the Chinese, for the obvious
the title, About the Disarmament Con-
Japan. England and America.
ten for The Japan Advertiser under
ference of the Three Countries:
reason that the Chinese market. which
cen be stabilized and rehabilitated by
the Japanese policy to promote the
prosperity and intergrity of China, is
By BARON Y. SAKATANI
a most important incentive to Japan-
Viewed from the standpoint of their
ese industry. The result would na-
geographical positions, Japan, England
turally redound to the profilt of not
and America have a heaven-ordained
only England and America but also of
all other countries. because the market
mission for maintaining peace and or-
of China is too vast a field for any one
der within the spheres where their
country to monopolize.
influence extends. The three count-
Obstacle to Peace Seen
ries occupy the highest position among
One can imagine no greater obsta-
the nations on earth in the develop-
cle to the peace of the world than
ment of civilization; in scientific, in-
that England and America. backed by
dustrial and commercial accomplish-
their powerful navies. should assume
ments; and in the possession of power-
their leadership in the Far East. As
ful navies.
long as the two great Powers remain
Very fortunately. these three count-
catering to the customary tactics of
ries are pecularly interrelated, in that
exploitation of Chinese statesmen to
England and America are racially
put one country over against another.
bound up; that Japan and America
the peace of the Orient cannot be as-
have historically maintained friendly
sured: the restoration of peace and
relations from the time of Japan's
order in the interior parts of China i
opening; and that Japan and England
impossible: and the progress of civili-
were once allied nations. It seems that
zation, development of industry an 
there can arise no serious problem
commerce are almost hopeless.
which may disrupt the established
Some of the statesmen of Englan't
prestige and create a political and
and America seem to harbor the idea
economicsituation
irreconcilable
that Japan may hold down Chinu.
among them. Hence, if the tripartite
jeopardize the interests of the two na-
delegates deliberate on the disarma-
tions in the Far East and tightly cios:
ment question in the London confe-
up the door of China, if Japan's free-
rence good-naturedly and tactfully,
dom of action is tolerated in the East;
their negotiations occasionally inter-
but this is a grave misapprehension
spersed with such socia! contacts as
on their part. It is an empty dream.
games of golf, the conference now at
and no benefit would accrue to Japan
a recess might be able in the end to
even if she were to adopt such an
reach a solution satisfactory to the
absurd policy toward China.
parties concerned and indispensable
The American is placing an over-
to the peace of the world.
emphasis on the vague notion of the
An Undercurrent Seen
so called Open Door in China. The
So far. so good. But no close stu-
open door or closed door is not the
dent of the proceedings of the pre-
kernel of the question. The real
liminary disarmament conference in
question is the maintenance of peace
London can fail to notice the fact that
and order in China, and the prosperity
there runs through them a dark un-
of the Chinese nation. Suppose that
dercurrent which poisons the minds
the gate is widely open there. but
of the delegations; and that current
what profit can one gain if the interior
has its fountain-head in the discre-
to which the gate leads is so confused
pancy of opinions regarding the policy
that one hardly dares to enter, and if
toward China. The nations seem to
the people are so miserably poor that
vie with each other, believing perhaps
no business can be carried out with
that each has its own best to contri-
them? Let it be understood that Ja.
bute to China, if left alone. This
pan has no intention to close the door
self-thrusting attitude is the sole cause
of China. What Japan sincerely de-
of trouble in treating the Chinese
sires for China is its integrity, and the
affairs. Conciliatory and compromis-
maintenance of peace and order there.
ing spirit is the need of the day.
The solution of the disarmament
The phrase Monroe Doctrine was
question will be easier if the three
surrounded by and bordering to on
coined in America. but each country
nstions should thoroughly understand
al this, and a treety of some form on
weaker countries has its natural right
disarmament is better than no treaty.
of self-preservation which is a Monroe
Doctrine to that particular country;
and Japan is so situated that she is
the holder of the same doctrine in this
part of the world. Indeed. the in-
terests of the three countries regard-
ing China are not conflicting. Japan
never intends to spoil the interests of
England and America in China.
Japan's policy toward China would

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
DENIES DESIGNS BY JAPAN
in the new Empire of Manchukuo In
a year or two, bécause he was able to
work single handed, backed only by
Closing of Open Door in China
one country-Japen. Of course it
should clearly be understood that it
Would Hurt This Country
is up to the Chinese himself to feel
the deepest concern for the welfare
Too, He Asserts
and development of Chins, his own
country: but it should also be under-
stood that the Japanese is no lems
The following article by Baron Yo-
anxious to e the establishment of 
shiro Sakatani, wellknown former
stable government in Chins. In this
statesman and diplomat, and a stu-
desire the Japanese might perhaps
the title, About the Disarmament Con-
ten for The Japan Advertiser under
dent of international affairs. was writ-
outstrip the Chinese, for the obvigus
reason that the Chinese market. which
ference of the Three Countries:
cen be stabilised and rehabilitated by
Japan, England and America.
the Japanese policy to promote the
prosperity and intergrity of China, is
By BARON Y. SAKATANI
a most importent incentive to Japan-
Viewed from the standpoint of their
ese industry. The result would na-
geographical positions, Japan, England
turally redound to the profft of not
and America have a heaven-ordained
only England and America but also of
mission for maintaining peace and or-
all other countries, because the market
der within the spheres where their
of China is too vast a fleld for any one
country to monopolize.
influence extends. The three count-
Obstacle to Peace Seen
ries occupy the highest position among
One can imagine no greater obsta-
the nations on earth in the develop-
cle to the peace of the world than
ment of civilization; in scientific, in-
that England and America, backed by
dustrial and commercial accomplish-
their powerful navies. should assume
ments; and in the possession of power-
their leadership in the Far East. As
ful navies.
long as the two great Powers remain
Very fortunately, these three count-
catering to the customary tactics of
ries are pecularly interrelated, in that
exploitation of Chinese statesmen to
England and America are racially
put one country over against another.
bound up; that Japan and America
the peace of the Orient éannot be as-
have historically maintained friendly
sured; the restoration of peace and
relations from the time of Japan's
order in the interior parts of China is
opening; and that Japan and England
impossible; and the progress of civili-
were once allied nations. It seems that
zation, development of industry ani
there can arise no serious problem
commerce are almost hopeless.
which may disrupt the established
Some of the statesmen of England
prestige and create a political and
and America seem to harbor the idea
economicsituationirreconcilable
that Japen may hold down Chinu.
among them. Hence, if the tripartite
jeopardize the interests of the two na-
delegates deliberate on the disarma-
tions in the Far East and tightly clos?
ment question in the London confe-
up the door of China, if Japan's free-
rence good-naturedly and tactfully,
dom of action is tolerated in the East;
their negotiations occasionally inter-
but this is a grave misapprehension
spersed with such social contacts as
on their part. It is an empty dream.
games of golf, the conference now at
and no benefit would accrue to Japan.
a recess might be able in the end to
even if she were to adopt such an
reach a solution satisfactory to the
absurd policy toward China.
parties concerned and indispensable
The American is placing an over-
to the peace of the world.
emphasis on the vague notion of the
An Undercurrent Seen
so called Open Door in China. The
So far, so good. But no close stu-
open door or closed door is not the
dent of the proceedings of the pre-
kernel of the question. The real
liminary disarmament conference in
question is the maintenance of peace
London can fail to notice the fact that
and order in China, and the prosperity
there runs through them a dark un-
of the Chinese nation. Suppose that
dercurrent which poisons the minds
the gate is widely open there. but
of the delegations; and that current
what profit can one gain if the interior
has its fountain-head in the discre-
to which the gate leads is so confused
pancy of opinions regarding the policy
that one hardly dares to enter, and if
toward China. The nations seem to
the people are so miserably poor that
vie with each other, believing perhaps
no business can be carried out with
that each has its own best to contri-
them? Let it be understood that Ja-
bute to China, if left alone. This
pan has no intention to close the door
self-thrusting attitude is the sole cause
of China. What Japan sincerely de-
of trouble in treating the Chinese
sires for China is its integrity. and the
affairs. Conciliatory and compromis-
maintenance of peace and order there.
ing spirit is the need of the day.
The solution of the disarmament
The phrase Monroe Doctrine was
question will be easier if the three
coined in America. but each country
nations should thoroughly understand
surrounded by and bordering to on
all this, and a treaty of some form on
weaker countries has its natural right
disarmament is better than no treaty.
of self-preservation which is a Monroe
Doctrine to that particular country;
and Japan is so situated that she is
the holder of the same doctrine in this
part of the world. Indeed. the in-
terests of the three countries regard-
ing China are not conflicting. Japan
never intends to spoil the interests of
England and America in China.
Japan's policy toward China would
ultimately coincide with those of the
other two nations. If England and
America aim to form their own poli-
cies toward China. independent of
Japan. the twa nations would be at-
tempting a thing imprudent and un-
wise.
To deal with the Chinese question
is like eating a big slice of tough beef-
steak. One cuts a piece off and takes
a bite. The longer one chews it the
more tasteless it gets. The English-
man never hurried. and sat down to
take his time. He began to eat the
steak little by little. In other words.
he started with the system of Custom-
houses. and tried to go on further and
further into deeper places, trying this
or that, and often changing his tactics
(Continned on Page 2)

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 27, 1935.
S
Tokyo's 1150 of February 8, 1935,
reviews the proceedings of the Diet from
January 22, when the Diet resumed session
after the New Year holidays, to February 7.
The despatch unfortunately contains
considerable material which might have been
used to better advantage in separate
despatches. It not only describes the
tactics of the Seiyukai in attempting to
weaken the position of the Government and
the methods of the government in meeting
attacks, but it outlines and discusses
debates and statements in the Diet in
regard to Japan's foreign relations. Con-
sequently, the despatch does not present
an adequate and clear account of the
domestic political situation nor does it
give a clear picture of the attitude of the
political parties toward the foreign
policies of the Government.
The most important portion of the
despatch is its last paragraph, in which
it is stated that there are no indications
of any material change taking place in
the near future in the domestic political
situation.
FE:HD/DLY
894.032/141

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.97)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 8, 1935
No. 1154
Subject:
Proceedings of the Imperial Diet from
January 22 to February 7.
Copyp in TE
894.032
4
894.032/141
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M. I.D
The
Hohorable
OF STATE
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
10
Thus far there have been few important developments,
other than constant political maneuvering by the Government
MAR·12 1935
and by the Seiyukai, during the course of the 67th regular
FILED
Diet session, which was convoked on December 26, adjourned
on the following day, and resumed on January 22. A resumé
of the Diet proceedings during the past two weeks may,
F/FG.
however, be of interest to the Department in showing the
trend of parliamentary government, semi-defunct at present,
and also the anomalous relationship which continues to
exist

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
exist between the Government and the political parties.
As in the ertraordinary session of the Diet held from
November 28 to December 10, 1934,* in the present session
the interpellations have not, for the most part, been
energetically followed up by Diet members, and Cabinet
Ministers have in most cases answered potentially
embarrassing interpellations in an evasive or equivocal
manner or with assumed righteous acquiescence.
Perhaps the most striking example of the curious
functioning of so-called parliamentary government in
Japan that has come to light in the present Diet pro-
ceedings is the manner in which the Government has
handled the "bomb-shell" motion of the Seiyukai for
the appropriation of an additional 180,000,000 for
relief purposes. This motion was originally presented
in November at the extraordinary session in a manner
that gave rise to widespread doubt as to whether the
Seiyukai was really concerned over rural economic con-
ditions or was merely attempting to make political capital
out of the motion. On the day of resumption of the
current Diet session, the Seiyukai resuscitated its
motion for an increased relief fund of ¥180,000,000,
launching an attack against the Government for failure
to provide adequate relief for agricultural regions and
those districts that suffered from natural calamities.
Premier Okada, according to press reports, retorted that
the appropriation sanctioned at the extraordinary session
was adequate for relief purposes. The Minister for Finance
stated that he had no idea at present of asking the Diet
for an additional relief appropriation and that he would
recommend
* Embassy's despatch No. 1088 of December 10, 1934.

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
recommend such an inorease only if there should exist
an actual need for it, not merely for the political
purpose of assuaging the Seiyukai. Notwithstanding
these declarations, the Government subsequently stated
its willingness to grant further relief funds amounting
to ¥30,000,000. The newspapers state that the Cabinet's
proposal to provide such increased relief is primarily
a move to conciliate the Seiyukai and that the plan
only awaits the formal meeting of the Cabinet on February
9 for final approval. The vernacular press has been
vigorous in denouncing the Government's efforts at a
compromise with the Seiyukai. The TOKYO ASAHI states
that the Government ought to dissolve the Diet rather
than temporize with the stagnant political situation,
the NICHI NICHI believes that such a settlement of the
controversy would not be a compromise but a defeat for
the Government, the OSAKA MAINICHI says that the pro-
posed compromise is a Government attempt to prolong its
tenure of office and a scheme to save the Seiyukai's
face, the KOkUMIN remarks that compromises must be
rejected for the sake of parliamentary government, and
the OSAKA ASAHI concludes that Premier Okada is opposed
to dissolution of the Diet because it might be inter-
preted as lack of "unanimous cooperation" in the nation.
Several of the interpellations directed against the
Army in the regular session of the Diet have been more
resolutely framed than those put forth at the extra-
ordinary session. The War and Navy Ministers, however,
have shown no sign that they are willing to compromise
in

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
in any way. Mr. Takao Saito, of the Minseito (temporarily
a pro-Government party) censured the War Minister for the
publication of the mmch-disoussed Army pamphlet* in
November, 1934, asserting that the pamphlet had been issued
apparently for the purpose of implanting jingoiam in the
minds of the nation and had caused misgivings abroad with
respect to Japan's real intentions. According to the
JAPAN TIMES of January 25, General Hayashi did not reply
to this interpellation. Mr. Saito also attacked the
Government for laying too much emphasis on national defense,
too little on peaceful diplomaoy. A Kokumin Domei inter-
pellator assailed the Cabinet for approving large military
funds to the detriment of industrial appropriations. Mr.
Ashida, a Seiyukai leader, referring to a statement made
by Mr. Takahashi in the extraordinary session of the Diet
to the effect that a "diplomacy-first and defense-second"
polioy should be the guiding principle of the Okada Govern-
ment, remarked that, if one judged from the draft budget
for 1935-36, the Government had been totally indifferent
to the avowed policy. In answer to an interpellation as
to what Japan's naval policy would be after the expiration
of the Washington and London Naval Treaties if these
treaties were not replaced, Admiral Osumi said that he
did not in the least expect a naval race to develop even
if no new naval limitation agreement should be conoluded
and that the present building program of the Japanese
Navy would not have to be materially increased in the
event of a non-treaty situation. A member of the Seiyukai
warned
* Embassy's despatch No. 1031 of November 1, 1934.

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
一5-
warned the Army against too much interference in politics,
whereupon the War Minister stated that the Army should not
interfere in politics.
Some of the interpellations were apparently made with
a view to currying favor with the military. For example,
a member of the House of Peers raised the question of the
adequacy or inadequacy of Japan's air defense and both the
War and Navy Ministers admitted that Japan's air force was
inadequate, particularly in comparison with the aviation
equipments of the other Powers. Again, Mr. Yasumi of the
Seiyukai asked the Premier if he had adopted the slogan
of the Saito Government "diplomacy first and defense
measures second". Upon being answered in the affirmative,
the interpellator went on to say that in his opinion defense
was at least equal in importance to diplomacy. Premier
Okada then explained that the order of the words in the
slogan was intended not to indicate the relative importance
of the two matters but to signify that defense was to be
invoked only in case diplomacy had failed. According to
the JAPAN ADVERTISER of February 1, the Navy Minister
did not consider the Premier's answer sufficiently clear
and therefore supplemented it with the assertion that
diplomatic negotiations could not be effective unless
supported by the power of armaments. The War Minister
endorsed the Navy Minister's statement. In this conneotion,
it may be remarked that Admiral Osumi's opinion is almost
a national credo.
Kak.
Mr. Hirota's address on Japan's foreign policy
delivered before the Diet on January 22* attracted con-
siderable attention in the newspapers, both in Japan and
abroad
* Embassy's despatoh No. 1l62 of February 7, 1935.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6-
A abroad, and brought forth a certain amount of comment
in the Diet. His statements concerning American-Japanese
and Anglo-Japanese relations contained nothing new, only
reiterating that the relationship in each case was satis-
factorily friendly. There seemed to be a note of optimism
regarding China in the somewhat equivocal statement that
there was a growing tendenoy among the Chinese to appreciate
Japan's intentions in East Asia and that while Japan would
do everything to encourage this tendency, he hoped that
China would collaborate with Japan further in that direotion.
With regard to Soviet Russia, the Minister for Foreign
Affairs stated that Japan had been guided by a spirit of
goodwill in its relations with that country and expressed
the hope that the Soviet Government would "give special
consideration to the creation of military works in the
Far East, especially along the Soviet-Manchukuo frontiers,
with a view to promoting mutual trust and confidence".
A member of the Kokumin Domei, Mr. Yamanichi, ques-
tioned the assurances contained in Mr. Hirota's address
to the effeot that Japan's foreign relations were favorable,
particularly in the case of China, of the Soviet Union,
and of Great Britain. Mr. Ashida of the Seiyukai inter-
pellated the Minister for Foreign Affairs on Japan's future
foreign policy, asking specifically if Mr. Hirota had any
concrete plans regarding Japan's policy toward Russia and
Japan's future course of action after the expiration of
the Washington Naval Treaty. According to the ASAHI SHIMBUN
of January 26, Mr. Hirota's reply, alleged to have been
taken from the stenographic records, was to the effect
that he intended to propose to the Soviet Government a
limitation

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
-7 -
limitation of defense preparations on the Soviet-
Manehukuo border and, with respeot to Japan's relation
to the international situation, that he was confident
that there would never be war during his tenure of office.
The broad promise of the Minister for Foreign Affairs
about war received considerable favorable comment in
the Japanese newspapers.
The political tactics of the Seiyukai are amply
illustrated by the party's efforts to disoredit the
Okada Government through an impugnment of the patriotism
of Mr. Tokonami, Minister for Communioations. Seizing
upon an isolated and unfounded report that had apparently
rested in oblivion for six months, on January 23 a Sei-
yukai interpellator accused the Communications Minister
of having accepted a bribe of 500,000 yuan from Marshal
Chang Hsueh-liang in 1928. It was alleged that a pam-
phlet emanating from the Japanese military authorities
in Auguat, 1934, had stated that Chang Hsueh-liang had
issued a receipt for the amount of 500,000 yuan to Messrs.
Akatsuka and Tsuruoka as the agents of Mr. Tokonami. At
first the military authorities indignantly denied that
they had had anything to do with the pamphlet in question
and accused the Seiyukai interpellator of trying to injure
the Army's prestige. Subsequently, however, the War Office
was reported to have instituted a search for the receipt
said to have been signed by Chang Hsueh-liang and believed
to be at present in a warehouse of the Kwantung Army at
Hsinking. According to press reports, the charge against
the Communications Minister is still under investigation.
There have been no indications that any material
change

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8 -
change in the internal politioal situation is likely to
take place in the immediate future or that the desuetude
into whioh party government has fallen in Japan will be
altered, despite the frantic efforts of the Seiyukai to
enfeeble the present Government without going to the
length of demanding a dissolution of the Diet. Nor has
the Cabinet manifested any weakening of its position,
unless one construes as weakness the proposal now under
advisement for the granting of slightly inoreased relief
funds in the 1935-36 budget.
Respeotfully yours,
Pos . Jan
Joseph C. Grew
GDA:m
803

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.89)
E
Coly in FE
No. 9843
lus
H/M9
5 1935
Department of State
AMERICAN CONSULAR SERVICE.
894.032
Amerioan Consulate General,
Shanghai, China, January 26, 1935.
Subject:
Chinese Press Comments on
Speech by Japenese Foreign
Minister, Mr. K. Hirota.
8.
894.032/142
For
THE HONORABLE
fee.l
IONIAID
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
lu
C
C2
111
2
COPIES SENT TO
1.2
C.1
O.N.I. ANDM.I.
sir:
I have the honor to summarize herein the rather
len thy comments on the recent address made by Mr. K.
Hdrota, Japanese Foreign Minister, before the Imperial
Japanese Diet, which appeared in T E CI PAo (The
Morning Post) and TI SHUI PAO (Chinese independent
dailies) of J nuary 24, 1935.
TE Ci PAO describes Mr. Hirota's address as
1935
master-piece of dinlomatic eloquence, glossin over
Japan's relations With Great Brit: in, t. United States
UE'11
AR 4-
vith a view to mitigatinc possi'le repera ssions.
to embark upon a pro ram of naval expansion, notwith-
standing the denunciation of the Washington Treaty, is
F/F
particularly worthy of notice. It is the journal's belief
that Japan will endeavor to maint&in the status quo in
G
the
11

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the Far East, as she now realizes that it will be far
more advantageous to act on the defensive than on the
offensive in so far as her diploma tic relations with
Europe and America are concerned. This accounts for
the fact that, the comment continues, instead of using
provocative language Mr. Hirota has so sketchily re-
viewed the policy of Japan - as though her relations
with the powers mentioned above were entirely untroubled.
The journal then coes on to say that Mr. Hirote's.
negativism toward Europe and America rather manifests
his positivism toward China and that, while defending
Japan aginst Europe and America. he Will redb uble his
efforts to act on the offensive ag&inst China. After
quoting that part of his speech in regerd to the
necessity for Japan to watch the progress of communism
in China, exception is taken to the manner in Wiich he,
as Minister of Forein Affairs. critcizes internal
affairs in : neighboring sovereign state. Attention is
then directe? to Mr. Hirota's st: tement anent the anti-
Japanese a ita : on in China, the desire of Japan to
maintain pe ce n order in the Orient, and the necessity
for China to regain stability with Japan's assistance.
The journal points out that this part of his speech is
presumptiously si nificant, indic ting (1) the type of
diplomatic gestures Japan may make though actin on the
offensive ainst China during 1935, and (2) Japan's
intention of asserting her position as a stabilizing
force in Eastern Asia - Which meuns the t Japan is putting
in force a "Monroe Doctrine for the East" and is assuming
to

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
to be the only stabilizing power in this area. Reading
between the lines the journal sums up this section as
intimating that no country in Europe or America may
intervene in Eastern Asia unless and until the consent
of Japan is given and that China cannot take measures
to safeguard herself without previcus arrengements with
Japan. The coercion and intimidation of China during
the past three years is now crystallized in a dangerous
diplomatic policy. In conclusion, the journal refers
to the proposed corclusion of a non-ag ression pact
between China and Japan and states that no such under-
takinc can be surely founded without "faith" and
"sincerity."
TIM S U: PAO'S coments were much more restrained
and less disposed to find faults and f: llacies, findin
Hirota's speech a reiteration of his usual policy and
an expression of oodwill tovard the other powers,
especially toward Great Britein und the United States.
ith which natinns it is his professed desire to settle
ma'ters b diplomatic cuesion. Tie journal quite
naturt lly c sidors thet part of is speech wich desls
vith Sino-Jupenese rolations of primary interest, as
Minister Hirota professes to fi a t' at tese relations
are v stly i proved  a as he re tedl: umphasizes
the importance of a closer un erst: ndin . The journal
coes on to say tiut. soure hicully und  istor celly,
china u d Japen aure so i terlinhed th t ther cn hardly
be separated. It the. reors to Dr. Sun Yat-sen's
"Pri ciple of Sreuter Asia" o  ic. curt: in Japanese
notables

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
notcbles pinned thcir fuith in earlier days and the
most importint phase of which is the removing of the
unwarranted restrictions upon the Chinese peoples as
an independent state. Consequently, the journal con-
tinues, Sino-Japanese relations must be improved but
without any prejudice to the sovereignty of China and
with "faith" and "sincerity" on the part of Japan.
It is declered that, if Japan will vork along the lines
of "diplomacy of ri ht and justice" without impairing
the interests of the Chinese nation or abridging the
liberty of China, the Chinese Government und people will
be pleased to join he nds with Mr. Hirota in maintaining
the peace of the Far East. If Mr. Hirota's interpretation
of the trend in Sino-Japanese relations is correct and
if Japan vill continue to procced alon the lines
irdicated, C ina, as an important nation bordering on the
Pacific, should enueavor i. cood faith to settle out-
stundine matters t rou  diplomatie c annels so that the
loweriny clouds may be swept away in the interest of
vorld peace.
The E lis lan w ce press, notably Tm eI
TI.ES (British) und T  C IA TR3S (Chinese independent
d: ily), editorialined the a dre. s alonc well defined
lines - t'e first finain much ood in Mr. Hirota's
enunciatio. s and the second hesituting to unreservedly
accept Japan's bona fides. However, While admittine the
bias displayed by t' press, it cannot be overlooked
that "the Jap mese Forein Office may propose ut it is
the

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
the Mar Office that disposes, " a China Press observati on
which finds a measure of confirmation in the recent
Chahar adventure.
Respectfully yours,
Edwin S. Cunningham,
Anerican Consul General.
800
CSR MB
In Quintuplice te.
Copy to Legation.
1

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.95)
894.032
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/ 143
SEE....824.00..P.R./86
#1161
FOR
FROM ..Japan
(...Grew
-) DATED
Feb.7,1935.
一
TO
NAME
Proceedings of the Diet; The 67th regular session of the Diet,
REGARDING:
which had been adjourned on Dec. 27, was re-opened on January
22. The salient features of the proceedings up to the close
of the morth were the following: (listed)
FRG.

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
JGP
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a)
Proceedings of the Diet.
The 67th regular session of the Diet, which had been
adjourned on December 27, was re-opened on January 22.
The salient features of the proceedings up to the close
of the month were the following: Mr. Hirota's speech on
foreign

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.98)
-16 -
foreign affairs, particularly that part which deelt with
Sino-Japanese relstions; a soewhat irresolute attack by
members of the Seiyukai against the Governnent for its
failure to provide adequate relief funds during the extra-
ordinary session of the Dict for Tohoku and the typhoon
stricken districts;* censure of the War Minister by a
Minseito (at present pro-Government) member for the
issuance of the Army pamphlet of November 1, 1934; queries
concerning the disproportionate amounts allotted to the
War and Navy Ministries in the 1935-36 budget; and the
statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in reply
to interpellations concerning Japan's future foreign policy
in view of the abrogation of the Washington Naval Treaty,
to the effect that he was confident t
that there would be
no war involving Japan during his tenure of office.**

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apri1 9, 1935.
EHD:
MCH:
Tokyo's No. 1217 of March 22, 1935.
This despatch outlines briefly the
proceedings of the Imperial Diet up to
March 21st.
At the time this despatch was written
the Diet had failed to act on important
bills, with the exception of the budget bill.
Two controversles have occupled much
attention recently in the Diet and press.
The first concerns theories regarding the
position of the Emperor -- an extremely
touchy subject in Japan -- expressed in a
book by Dr. Minobe, who is an eminent
scholar and Imperial appointee to the Ilouse
of Peers. A separate despatch deals with
this subject.
Another controversy has raged over
official leniency extended toward reactionary
violence. It was charged in the Diet that
the peril of radicalism had been replaced
by the peril of violent reaction, and that
if any group of ruffians call themselves
a patriotic organization, the Government
lifts the hand of vigilance from them.
WTT/DLY
894.032/144

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
alk
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Maroh 22, 1935
No. 1217
Sub ject:
Proceedings of the Imperial Diet from
February 8 to March 21, 1935.
182
A
894.032/144
5
No
For Distrbuet m Ch
Tof1!
Grade
Ln U S A
For
ON1
MID
COPIES SENT TO
The Honorable
O.N.1AD ID.
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's
APR 13 1935
despatches No. 1088/of December 10, 1934, and No.
FILED
11111
1154 of February 8, 1935, and to submit the following
report on the proceedings of the Imperial Diet from
February 8 to Larch 21.
Of the fifty-five Government bills introduced in
the Diet, only two have thus far been approved by both
Houses. The budget for the fiscal year 1935-1936,
amounting to ¥2,193,414,000, was passed by the House
of
F

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
of Representatives on February 14 and by the House of
Peers on arch 8, and on the latter day both Houses
gave their approval to the extra budget for the year
1934-1935, amounting to approximately ¥18,000,000.
The Government has made the charge that the Seiyukai
are deliberately obstructing the passage of legislation
in the Lower House in an effort to eibarrass the Cabinet,
while the Seiyukai claim that the Govermment is to blame
for having delayed the introduction of its bills. among
the more important bills not acted upon by the Diet up
to the present writing are the following: A bill pro-
viding for the establishment of a National Policy
Investigation Commission;* a bill revising the Peace
Preservation Law to the end that stricter control shall
be established over reacticnary orunizations;** three
rice control measures; a bill providing for the control
of the production of fertilizers; a bill providing for
the adjustment of silk cocoon production; a bill designed
to control fisheries in northern wuters;*** and a bill
amending the turiff on iron. On March 12 the House of
hepresentatives pussed the Governnent's Special Business
Profits Tux sill **** as amended the day before by the
majority urty, but this bill has not yet been pproved
by the House of Peers.
There has been talk in the newspupers that the
present s ssion of the siet, hicl is te to close on
Murch
*
See Monthly Report fcr uctober, 1934, Section III (a).
**
See Monthly Report for January, 1935, Section 1II (a).
***
Embassy's desputch .o. 1198 of march 8, 1955.
****
See Monthly Report for Hovember, l954, Section V (i).

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
March 25, may have to be prolonged for the passage of
needed legislation. On the other hand, Nippon Dempo
(News Agency) of Maroh 17th reported that with only one
week of the session remaining and with the Lower House
still refusing to act on important Government bills, a
crisis was rapidly developing which might result either
in dissolution of the Diet or resignation of the Cabinet.
Opinion on this subject seems to be divided.
A number of rather significant statements have been
made in the Diet since the Embassy's last despatch on
this subject was written. Several of these statements
are given herewith in some detail because of their peculiar
bearing on certain phases of the present political situation.
On March 5 Mr. Seijun Ando of the Seiyukai issued a scathing
denunciation of reactionary violence in Japan and of the
Government for not only peraitting such violence but also
for using its exponents for Government ends. According
to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of March 6, he said that the
peril of radicalism had been replaced by the peril of
violent reactionism; that unlawful acts and the use of
violence had occurred with remarkable frequency during
the past two years; that the public could hardly continue
to go about its business with ease of mind under such
conditions; and that the recurrence of such events was a
disgraceful blot upon the Showa era. The interpellator
recounted a number of incidents of reectionary violence
that had occurred since the May 15 incident of 1932,
asked the Government's views on crimes that involve
so-called patriots, and enquired as to what steps the
Premier and the Home, Justice, War, and Navy Ministers
intended to take toward the prevention of such happenings
in

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
in future. Mr. Ando stated that of late the press had
failed to publish the information on diplomatic and
military subjects in which the people were most interested
for fear of violence from reactionary terrorists who go
unmolested. He also remarked that if any member of the
House of Representatives spoke in the Diet against the
wishes of the military, his name was written down on the
list of persons against whom the hand of violence was ever
ready to act. He summed up his assertions as follows:
"If a group of vagabonds gives itself some such name as
Aikoku ("Patriotic") or Kokka ("National Family"), the
Government lifts the hand of vigilance and even goes to
the extreme of utilizing such a group for its own purposes.
I resent this neglect to exercise proper vigilance against
such groups of ruffians". The replies received by the
interpellator from the Premier and the Ministers of Justice,
Home Affairs, and the Navy, as reported by the JAPAN
ADVERTISER of the 6th, were routine in nature and extremely
vague.
 Mr. Ando expressed his dissatisfaction with all
these replies and added that the Navy Minister's answer
sounded like a passage from a school text book.
Mr. Yukio Ozaki, doyen of the House of Representatives
and a veteran exponent of parliamentary government in
Japan, made a speech on March 16 in response to the
Lower House's action in voting a special expression of
gratitude and recognition to him and to five other
Representatives for their services over many years in
the cause of parliamentary administration. He deplored
the death of .r. Tsuyoshi Inukai who had striven with
him for the cause of constitutional administration from
the time the Diet was first organized in 1890. He said
that

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
that he felt humiliated to be honored at this time, when
party politics had failed so miserably to meet the ex-
pectations of the people, and that the chief reasons for
the loss of confidence in the political parties were their
abuse of political power and the influence of money in the
elections. Furthermore, he stated that it was vain to hope
that any confidence in the political parties could be
restored as long as the custom existed of giving prepon-
derance to official power, which placed the Government
above the people. He went on to remark that members of
parliamentary bodies in foreign countries, specifically
England, were accorded high esteem and he apologized
ironically for citing a foreign country as an example,
since he knew that the trend of the time in Japan was to
reject examples from abroad.
Vith reference to criticisms directed against Dr.
Minobe in the House of Peers for the theory expressed in
his book that the Emperor is an institution,* the Premier
stated on March 4 in the Upper House, according to the
NICHI MICHI of March 5, that the dignity and sanctity of
the Japanese national cheracter could not be expressed in
words and would not be disturbed by academic theory, and
thet he disapproved of the theory that the Emperor is an
institution. On March 20, the House of Peers passed a
resolution, aimed obviously at r. inobe, which deprecates
the tendency in Japan to imitate Western civilization and
thus to disregard the "national spirit" of Japan, und
reconmends that the Government take drastic steps tgainst
persons who enunciate theories that are detrimental to
the national structure of the country. It is interesting
to
Embassy's desp: tch o. 1208 of arch :2, 1935.

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.91)
-6 -
to note the similarity between this resolution and the
Army's direct criticism of Dr. Linobe's book as reported
by the press.*
Respectfully yours,
NosifLJu
Joseph C. Grew
803
GDA:m
X
Jee : ontily Report for February, lo35, section III (b).

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.97)
4
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 23, 1935.
EMD:
Tokyo's 1233 of April 5, 1935.
The Diet was adjourned on March 26,
nothing having been accomplished in the
way of legislation except the passage of
the budget bills and a bill to impose a
special business profits tax.
No action was taken in a number of
important bills introduced by the Govern-
ment, such as a voluntary rice control
bill, a bill to control reactionary organ-
izations, a bill to control fisheries in
northern waters, a bill to control the
fertilizer industry, a bill to reduce the
tariff on pig-iron, and a bill to
stabilize cocoon production.
Much of the session seems to have been
devoted to debating Dr. Minobe's constitu-
tional theories. Both Houses passed
resolutions urging the Government to take
steps against ideas calculated to damage
the national structure.
The internal political situation
remains unchanged after the close of the
session. The political parties are
largely discredited, and the Government
seems disinclined to force any issues
as

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
as long as its budgets are approved. The
Cabinet apparently continues to enjoy the
backing of the military and is not expected
to fall.
WTT/DLY

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, April 5, 1935.
No. 1233.
Subject:
Proceedings of the Imperial Diet
from March 21 to the Close of th
COPIES SENT TO
Session, March 26.
O. S.LANDM.I.D
F.
Grade
N
Por
UA
ON
894.032
IMID
copy um TE-381
894.032/145
70
THE UNDER SECRETARY
cn
APH 28 1936
DEPAPTMENT OF SIAIE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
MAY 2
FILED
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Embassy's despatches No. 1088
114.
of Decomber 10, 1934, No. 1154 of February 8, 1935, and
142
No. 1217/of March 22, 1935, I have the honor to report
that the 67th session of the Imperial Diet was adjourned
on March 26, nothing having been accomplished in the way
of legislation other than the passage of the Government's
regular and supplementary budget bills for the fiscal year
1935-1936, the extra budget for 1934-1935, and the Govern-
F
ment's Special Business Profits Tax Bill* as amended by
both
*See Monthly Report for November,1934, Section V (1).

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
both Houses.
It is true that the last-mentioned bill was one of
the Government's major measures, and one that had been
opposed by the political parties since its drafting in
November, 1934. It is likewise true that the supple-
mentary budget bill for 1935-36 includes a provision
which authorizes an appropriation for the organization
of a National Policy Investigation Comnission, another
of the Government's principal projects in the recent
Diet session. However, the Seiyukai majority party have
announced their unwillingness to participate in the mem-
bership of the proposed National Policy Investigation
Commission, although one of the Government's aims in
desiring its establishment is reportedly to create an
impression, at least, of wholehearted national support
of the Cabinet by granting wide representation in the
Comnission.* Furthermore, a nunber of bills which were
introduced by the Government and which the Government
especially desired to have passed were not approved by
the Diet, inclu ing the folloving: the Voluntary Rice
Control Bill providing for State encouragement of co-
operative marketing by farmers; a bill revising the Peace
Preservation Law in order to establish stricter control
over reactionary organizations; a bill for the Control
of fisheries in northern waters; the Fertilizer Industry
Control Bill, designed to regulate prices in the interests
of farmers; a bill for the reduction of the import tariff
on pig-iron in view of the existing shortage of that commo-
dity; and a bill providing for the stabilization of silk
cocoon
*See Monthly Report for January, 1935, Section III (b).

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
cocoon production. Of these unpassed bills, perhaps the
one that came in for the most heated debate was the Volun-
tary Rice Control Bill, since discussion of it brought out
the divergencies in the interests of the rice dealers and
of the farmers' cooperatives. The bill was finally passed
with slight amendments by the Lower House but the House of
Peers shelved it, alleging that there was not sufficient
time for discussion of the measure.
It will be recalled that on March 20 the Upper House
passed a resolution which recommended that the Government
take drastic steps against enunciators of theories detri-
mental to the national structure of Japan. This resolution
was aimed at Dr. Minobe, who ha? stated in his books on the
Constitution that the Emperor was an institution.* Four
days later the House of Representatives passed a similar
resolution urging the Government to take "drastic steps"
against any speeches or theories that may be deemed incom-
patible with the Empire's national structure. The news-
papers report that the Cabinet will ask Dr. Minobe to re-
vise or delete the passages in his books that arc considered
obnoxious. However, the Cabinet has apparently been unable
to reach a decision on this matter and it is possible that
the whole thing may be dropped.
Although the Cabinet was reported to have considered
prolonging the Diet session for the passage of necessary
legislation, this step was not taken, and despite news-
paper predictions** neither was the Diet dissolved nor
has
*Embassy's despatches No. 1208 of March 29 and No. 1217 of
March 2, 1935.
**Embassy's despatch No. 1217 of March 22, 1935.

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
has the Cabinet resigned. Thus, the internal political
situation as regards the Government in its relation to the
political parties remains essentially the same as reported
in the Embassy's despatches during the past several months,
namely, a situation characterized by the weakness of the
parties and by the unwillingness of the Government to take
any clear-cut and possibly dangerous action as long as its
budgets are voted, particularly its military appropriations.
It would not appear likely that the Government will fall
through lack of support from the political parties, since
it apparently continues to enjoy the backing of the mili-
tary, in whom the public still has more confidence than it
has in the politicl parties.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
803.
GDA:g

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.95)
6-3
2657-H-456
TORICIADUS
3000 - Fol1tienl Iseuss & Probly
FAR EASTERN AFE
THE G7TH DIET - HESUL TS OF THDE SESSTONS
Department of State
1. The 67th Diet ended March 26. the ninoty day
session be un in December of shioh about one month re-
presented Hew Year Holidays. The session ended some-
what suddenly and unexpeotedly, and even the members
themselves were surprised at the reading of the Imperial
Resoript closing the Diet, as it was generally expeeted
that the Covermment would prolong the session a few days
until the important bills had been passed. mong the
bills that failed enaotment were:
894.03
a. Rice Control Billg: These bi ls, three
in number, were In effest  tate enoo ragement of co-
operative arketing by farmers with assistanoe in the
032/146
shape of subsidies for warehousing. In contrast to the
existing system of rioe distribution by rioe mmrohants,
the bill was in the direetion of controlled economy for
the reliof of farmers.
b. Cocoon Billa: lso three in number. one
of whion called for dohydration of coesons, thas permit-
ting storage and consequent stabilization of prioes.
Q. Iron and teel ariff 11l: his 511l
would r duoe duties on ig iron nd steel in vie of
shortage in Japan.
d. Peage revervation ill: ould ane the
present law by calling for greater control of 1ghtists'
organizationa. 1 ied wlth t is bill was ncther pro-
viding more severe punishmont lor reaotionary violenee,
especially for those inoitf s or aidin others in the
commission of violent acts.
. Fertilizer Bill: ould control rice of
fertilizer in Favor of farmers.
f. ineriea ill: his bill would uniry and
consolidate Japanese efforts in the lishing rounds in
Soviet waters.
2. Political artice.
The overnment blames the eiyukai's delaying
tacties, such an the int roduotion of the so cal led
"bombshell" mot1on (a b1ll alling for ¥180,000,000 for
the relief of farmers), and the abortive attempt to con-
neat the Winister of Commumicat1ons w1th the 500, 000 Yuan
"loan" by Chang Hmueh-L.1ang to two Japanese, for the
failure of ite legislative program. hile tese tactios
took up a groat doal f time, as did the disoumaion of
u/A.Tokyo.
eport o. 7734
r11 4,135

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.96)
Minobe Theory, it was really the Seiyukai poliey
mem-cooperation wi th the Govermment that wasted so
named above had been prepared in consultatiom w1th the
Seiyeiai, but shem they resehed the floor of the House.
quiet bus firm oppositiom by this party hed to be com-
tanded wi th, not to mantiom outright obetruetiomist teo-
sies. The Mimseito, is also pertly blamed for the Diet's
comparatively fruitless efforts besause of its lukewarm
attitude in support of the Cabimet.
3. The Houm of Poere.
hile supposed to be friendly to the Covern-
meat, the Mouse of Peers suddenly hardened in its atti-
tule towards the and of the sesslon. This eccoumts for
the sudden ending of the session es Premier Okade, after
a Cabinet co ference following inquiries as to the Peers'
stand, beoame convinoed that even though the Diet be pro-
Longed, the llouse of Peers would not be too amieable
towards the remaining bills to be presented. Ome reason
for this was the iack of time given the Peers to consider
sueh important legislation, partisularly the riee bills.
The strong lobby of the riee dealers' organimation (plus
hinted bribery) was a factor in the Peers' sudden about
faee.
4. The Oreda Cabinet.
The makoup of the Cabinet iteelf, however, is
the real reasom for the Diet feilure. Being non-party
(but sith suppesed Miaseito leanings), it drew enthusias-
tie support from no one group. 11 seotions of the ver-
nacular press agree that the failure to pass impor tent
legimlation spells the doom of the Cabinet, nd that it
is only a atter of time before it will be foroed to
resign. If the Minobe qumstion does not foroe it sooner,
some competent observers believe that the Cabinet will
resign immodiately after the visit of the Manohoukuo
Emperor. Premier Ckade hns indioated, however, that he
will not resign and that "oriticim falls off me like
water dashed into a crooodile's face." Certainly, all
observers agree, the Cabinet ill not face the next Diet.
The press generally reflects the feeling of the avorege
man that e Cabinet !s not able o efricient ly conduot
the administration of the nation.
5.issolution.
Japanese politicel obeervers now agree that
dissolution, which he Cabinet aotually contemplated.
would have been the best strategy. In fact, as far as
the Lower louse was conoerned, the Cabinet was able to
expedite the deliberation on the riee control bills by a
threat of disaolution, which did not, however, suffioe
to induee the passage of other important Coverament bills
during the presoribed period of the ordinary aession.
It would ap ear tat tho oppoe1tion of the eiyukai was
caloulated to disar dit the Covernment wi thout being
sur ioiently unyielding to bri g about a dissolution,
and consequent general eleotion, desired by neither of
the principal parties at the time. he Upper House can-
not be dlanolved, but the dissolution of the Lomer House
/A.Tokyo.
Report No. 7734.
Anr11 4, 1935
-2-

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.95)
followed by a general election returming a mjority in suppegs
of the Cabimet would dissipate the opposition of the House of
Peers to that sabinet simee the Upper House would feel eame
pelled by eustom to support a covernment appro ved by the people
at the polls. The opposition of she House of Peers to the
Goverament's propeeed legislation; the desision of the Premiee
not to risk an extension of the Diet sesaiom whiek would prck-
Govermment amd the taoties of the politieal partiss im the
House of Representatives indicate a government incapable of
controling the iet although not desirous of dissolving it amd
politicians content to oppose the government to a degree short
ef sufficient to force : dissolution end genernl eleetion.
6. ooomie Reute.
The Government therefore thru the mem-pessage of
these tille has emocuntered an obstaele in the path from
sconomic liberalism to controlled economy and is foreed to
mark time. The farmers will be especially affeeted as the
rice control, cocoon and fertilizer bills were introdused
with the idea of aiding a very aggravated agrariam mitmatiem.
Mr. Yamazaki, the Minister of Agrioulture and Forestry, hals-
ing himselr reaponsible for the failure of these bills, of-
fered to resign but he was persuaded to withdraw his resis-
nation very hurriedly (if it uetuelly wms writtem). The
coasensus of opinion of the press is that his resigmation
would certainly force a Cabinet change.
7..
of the 55 bills introduced, 44 were passed. Mamy
of the latter were comparatively unimportant, however, and
the eleven bills whioh failed of enactment were of paramount
interest to the nation. uch meusures s the Budget, the
Supplement ry udget, pecial rorit (ineome) Tax and the
revision or the ilitary eryice egulations passed. The
Latter bill contains revised regulations with reference to
coneoription and to a new motor transportation unit whioh
will be reported upon loter.
It seems cert in that the nati n's faith in a non-rarty
or  coalition cabinet h s been mhaken but whesher or not the
poople are re:dy for a drastic change remmine to be meen. 
party Cabinet in the present state of polieical turmoil is,
however, believed to be an impossibility. The rmy is dis-
pleased at the failure of the agrioultur l meusures whlon
means the continuation of unsatisfactory provisions of law now
in effect. . bad agrarian situation affects the source of
supply of men as the majority of men consoripted come from the
farming districts.
Source:. ress.
John weokerling,
Captain, Infantry, OL.,
Asst., ilitary ttache.
. Tokyo.
Report No. 7754
Apr11 4, 1935.

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.94)
lat Ind.
The Military Attache, merican mbassy, Tokyo, Japan.
To: The Chief, Military Intelligenoe Division.
1. pproved.
William C. Crane,
Major, General Staff,
Military Attnebe.
istribution:
XID
6
File
M/. Tokyo.
Re port c. 7734
pr11 4, 1935.

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.96)
XE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
of parafphrace
COPIESISENT TO
1-1886
FROM
O.N.I. ANDM. I.D.
FS
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraplrased be-
fore being communicated
Dated January 21, 1936
to anyono. (A)
Reo'd 9:20 a. m.
894.032/147
e
Secretary of State,
a.ge.
C
Washington.
894.032
18, Januery 21, 6 p. m. 
811.032
One. The Diet reconvened today and Hirota delivered
an address in the concludin: part of which he apparently
attompts to answor cortain passages of tho President's
messago to Congross of January 3. Tho Embassy is informed
by the Foreign Office that the toxt of Hirota's address
was tolcgraphod to important Japaneso diplomatic missions
and is availablo at tho Japanese mbassy in Washington
FILED
Two. Tho Diet was dissolved this afternoon before
cin
a rosolution of non-confidcnce could bo introduced.
general clection will be hold February 20 and it is goner-
ally exnected thet an extraordincry sossion of the now Diet
will be called within ono or two months after tho cluc-
tion primarily to consider fiscal measures.
CSB
GREW
F/G

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.89)
A tole (No. 10) e y n. 19se,  
Ameriesm Amtasseder at Tokye, reads sabstemtsally as
followe:
On Janwary n, the Japanese Diet recsnvened and the
MMaseter fer Tereige Afratre (Mirete) made a epesee, tommre
OBF
the end ef which he tried eppareatly to reply te eestaín
parts of the President's message to Ceagress of Jameary s.
The tent of Hirote's address is umderstoed te be evailable
at the Japenese Imbessy in wackingten. In the afterseen
of Jamuary al, before & resolution of mem-sonfidemee ceuld
be introdueed, the Mes was disselved. It is expested
gemerelly thet within one or twe months efter the gemerel
elestiom whien will be hold cn February so as extreerdimary
session of the mew Diet will be sonvened for the purpese
of eonsidering fiseal measures primarily.
894.058/149
e.9.S.
C
FE:EOC
FE
I-22-36

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.93)
894.032
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE793.94/7688
FOR
Tel#23, Noon
894.032/
FROM China (Nanking)
Pock
-.) DATED
Jan 23, 1936
TO
NAME
1-1187
48
Interview by press correspondents concerning Mr. Koki Hirota's
REGARDING:
reference, in his apeech before the Japanese House of Peers,
to alleged concurrence by China to Japanese three principles
vis a vis China.
FRG.
H
8

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
FS
PLAIN
Manking via U.R.
Dated January 23, 1936
Rec'd 9 a. n.
894.032
Secretary of State,
Washington.
23, January 23, noon.
One. ollowin statoment for the press has been
793.94
received from the Foreim Office:
"Interview by press correspondents concerning
r ki rota's pe e ene, n his speech before
/7688
the Jananese ousc of Peere lant Tuesday, to alleged
concurrenco  Chinn to Japanese tree princinles vis a
vis China, one of which is stated to be China's recogni-
tion of the ouppet state of Hancruluo', a spokesuan of
the ciehconu stated as follov: 'oy the three prinei-
ples
Mr. irota ust have meant those three points
which he mut orward to General hiany Tzo Pin, then
Chumese mbre ador to Tokyo,  smtember 1935 by way
of renl: to bhe Lattu r's proposcle. It vill be recalled
that in the all of last year tre Chinese Coverrment pre-
posed, throu h mbassador Chien , to the Japanese tovern-
ment certein fundamen'al measuren or the umprovenent of
the relat ons of the two countr. In renly, r.
irota

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.92)
FS
2-No. 23, January 23, noon from Nanking
"irota informed Ambassador Ch ang to the offect that the
Chinese proposals, in princinle, were not unacceptable to
Janan but thet before Janan's acceptance of the same China
must agree to three things:
One. China must abandon her policy of playing one
foreign country against another;
Two. Chine must respect the fact of the oxistence
of the vanehuued;
Three. China end Japan must jointly devise effective
measures for preventing the  ea of Comnrinism in reg-
ions in the northuru nart of hin.
Vowever, these three points were considered by the
Chanose overnment as being too vague in their phrase-
ology, to serve as a subject for useful discussion. So
the enanece 'ovurnrent was requested to state the con-
crete terms uabodiud in these pointe, but un to the
present tve Jepanese lovern pent ave not yot done so.
r, arot's recent stet  te the efrect thnt
Chine bs n u cated er coneurr uee to these points is,
therefere, uthout rounletion.
in the stber and, lenerel vn: Chun shortly after
asu.in
bis cuties as Tinisber toe Fore m Apoairs, bas
proposec thy t sino-Jananese ne phi. tions should be con-
due ted aecoad ung to re pl r proceiure nd turough
diplomatic

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.96)
FS
3-No. 23, January 33, noon from Nanking
diplomatic channels with a view to the fundamental
readjustment of the relations between the two countries.
Now in his recent speech before the Touse of Peers,
Mr. irota not only expressed concurrence to Gen-
eral Chang's proposal but also reiterated Japanese
fundamental policy of non-menace and non-aggression
against nei hborin: countries in the hope of restoring
the reletions of the two countries to normalcy as well
as ad justing their mutual interests. Fron this standpoint,
there seems to be no ivergence of views between the two
sides.
ith these as a st rtin, point in the negotia-
tions between C'ina and Japan thcre can be no doubt that
the relations between the two countries will be greatly
improved'.
G::C
P.C.

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 12, 1936
JOMTT
SKH.
Tokyo's No. 1649 of January 22,
1936, gives an account of the dissolution
of the Diet and describes the political
situation.
The reasons for the decision of the
Cabinet to dissolve the Diet were the
obstructive tactics of the Seiyukai party,
which had successfully blocked the Cabinets
program of legislation in the two previous
sessions of the Diet, and the desire of the
Government to avoid a vote on a non-con-
fidence motion, which the Seiyukai was
prepared to present, censoring the
Government for its action with regard to
the Minobe affair.
In any event general elections would
have been called for shortly after the
Diet session, probably in March.
February 20 is set as the date for
elections. The Embassy considers that
the Seiyukai will maintain if not improve
its position in the Diet as the result
of the impending elections.
In any case there appears to be no
expectation of any material change in
Japan's nationalistic foreign policy.
894.032/149
WT
WTT/DLY

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.84)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 22, 1936.
NO. 1649.
SUBJECT:
DISSOLUTIO CF T DIET AID THE INTERNAL
POLITICAL SITUATION.
Crpaygin FE(381)
31119
A
894.032/149
094.:37
1011
For⊥
Fib
In U S A.
89400
The Hantrpble
The Secretary of Jt.to,
Wasnington.
Jir:
Yesterday arternoon the ov ment aissolved the
FE2 25 1936
FILED
Diet, .icn nnd seen rormall convenea in its o3t..
session on cr   n t tollomin uy
adjourneu until tmuory slst.*
Phe Tperi: 1 neserist
of dissolution was resd in vne .ouse  c
Rtiv.
followin auaresses oy iromler Chtuu, tue micieter for
Ferei m
*
Boasey's telegrem to. lo of cuor Ll ond ont.ly
F/FG
Report ror sece.ber.
71

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
Foreign Affairs, and the Minister for Finance. On the
first and only day of session after the Hew Year's
holidays, the only positive action taken in the Lower
House was the approvel of a ..essage of condolence to
the British Royal Ftmily on King George's death and of
a message of spprecie tion t. the Japtnose delogation to
the London Naval Conference. In the Mouse of Feers
addresses were mede by the Pre..ier and the Minister for
Forein Affairs, e messt ce of cppreciation to the
Japanese naval del gation was ap roved, and the session
was adjourned in.ediately cfter an interpelletion on
the necessity of urt er developin the fishery in-
dustry, which was favore ly responded to by the Pre ier
and by the Hevy and Acrieulture Ministers.
As trunslatea by Domei (news ageney), the Goverm.ent's
ste temcnt o dissolution was as follows:
"With the co viction tas t notionel co-
operetion is t e vole means e coping with
the pre ent rave situation, t.e Government
hos mede every efrort to uxec te its plo tform
since the foton of the prusunt Csbinet in
aceordcnce wit tais olicy.
"Judging from the  roceedings of the two
provious sessions of the Inperiel Diet, and
the recent polit e situt.., owever, the
Sovemment is co vinced thet conditions in t.
Ho we of Relrentetives do not faver the smooth
exec tion of 'ie covermment's neministretive
policies.
"The Govermient hopes to conduct the clection
on a busis of strict fairness and to carry out
its policies under a rresh politic:l situ: t on.
Accordin hy, the sovernnent tas reconcended the
dissclution of the present Diet."
In

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
In the two previous sessions of the Diet, neld
from November 28 to December 10, 1934, and from Decem-
ber 26, 1934, to March 26, 1935, the Okada Cabinet's
progrem of leislation had been successfully blocked
by the Seiyukai, the majority purty in the House of
Representatives, and tncre was no reason to believe
that this party would lend its supp rt to the Govern-
ment's legislative progrun in the Diet session just
adjourned. In aadition, during the ten months following
the last session of the Diet, the Seiyukai had con-
sistently attacked the Government on many issues,
purticularly on the way in which the Government had
handled the Minobe contreverey.*
The Government was
faced with an impending motion of non-conridence which,
accordin to press reports, the Se iyukai leaders had
drawm up on January 19th on the basis of the Government's
alleged lack of sincerity und responsibility in combatting
the Minobe theory of the Maperer as an institution.
Moreover, even ir the Governient had allowed the Diet
session to p ocecd, cen ral elections would have nad to
be held shortly after adjournnent, which usuelly takes
place in the latter part of ferch.
In view of the above conmiderations, the Cabinet
decided to dissolve the Die: at once and tke its chances
in ceneral elections, r ther tm epose Lsselr to a
situation that nad ro..ise of not..  but ifrieulties.
In accordance wit. the tes of tie lection Law as
revised
*
 d. 1   , l.

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
revised in 1925, the general elections must now be held
within thirty days after the dissolution of theDiet or
before February 21, 193o. The Official Gazette today
set February 20 as the date of this election. The
present Government's position is poculiar and its prospects
problematic in the face of an election. It is "National"
and dependent upon no political support in the Diet,
and in fact has held office the pust year in spite of
marked inability to obtain legislation. It had its
origin in the political crisis that followed the murder
of the Prime Minister on May 15, 1932, and in the nature
of things cannot be more than an emergency cabinet,
although it has lasted for nearly four years and has
weathered the resicnation of Prime Minister Saito.
Now that the domestic polit cal situation is less
tense, it is to be expected thet normal political
forces will be more in evidence. Even such a stanch
supporter of tie Governent a Fin nce Minister
Takehesni is e ted as  aveea  a re arn to rty
cevermment. The eleet. on res its will trer fove 
w tened wit. iterest,  s some  servers irediet
resi motion of the present sovepnt if t e cl ction
ret rns ive one of the politie l  reles,  rticul rly
te Seiyukai,  uecided  rity in the louse.
resalts of the refectar i clections compl ted in
Hovenber, loss, would i ic: te thct the seiyukai should
maintain ir not enht nce t ir pocition in the Lower
House of the Diet. These elections showed a cain
for the Seiyuk i, as comp rea with ose held four
years

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
years previously, and a loss for the Minseito, which
party has generally supported the Okada Cabinet. However,
as has happened in the past, the Okada Cabinet may make
such compromise overtures to the Se iyukai or such changes
in its own personnel as to avert a crisis in the next
Diet session, which the Constitution provides shall be
opened within five months of the date of dissolution or
before June 21, 1936.
There would appear to be no cause to look for any
material change in Japan's present nationalistic foreign
policy in the event of a victory for the Seiyukai at
the forthcoming elections and a subseguent overthrow
of the Government. The only criticisn by the Seiyukai
of the Okada Government's forein policy has heretofore
been that it has not been positive enough, especially
wi: rerd to China.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
3
303
GDA:C

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.00 P.R./99
1648
894.032/150
FOR
FROM.
Japun
(
) DATED .Jan. 18.1906.
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Legialature and internal politica.
Report on -.
Bills before the legislature.
b
150

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.98)
- 12 -
(j) Siam.
It was announced by the Ministry of Communications
on Decenber lst that Japan's first international air line,
which would connect Taihoku, Formosa, with Banckok, Sian,
would be onened in 1936.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a)
The Diet.
The 68th session of the Imperial Diet was formally
94032
opened by the Emperor on December 26th with an Imperial
Rescript. A second meeting was held on the follcwing day
and the Diet was adjourned until January 21, 1936. There
has been a great deal of discussion in the press as to
whether the Seiyukai would present a motion of non-confidence
in the Government over its handling cf the institutional
theory of the Emperor; whether the Jeiyukai, which is stated
to hold 252 seats in the louse of kepresentatives as acainst
125 by the Minseito,would ask fer a dissolution of the Diet;
or whether the Government would dissolve the Diet should
its legislative pro ram be blocked in the forthcoming Diet
session. It would be premcture at the mement to make any
forecast concernint these matters. however, it may be
stated that nc weakenin of the Gevernment has been apparent
since the last session of the Diet.*
(b)
The Cabinet.
A celebration was held on December 2nd tc ccmmemorate
the 5oth anniversary of the establishment of the cabinet
systen of government in Janan.
(c)
*
Embas y's desvateh no. 1233 of April 5, 1935.

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.98)
- 13 -
(c) Folitical Farties.
In a speech to members of the newly created Showakai
political party Mr. Takahashi, the Finance Minister, stated
that a speedy return to party politics was essential; that
he, Fremier Okada, and ex-Fremier aito were workin hard
to retore party politics; and that he was opposed to a
Fascist régime or any kind of dictatorship.
(d) The Emneror.
Count Makino, Lord Keeper of the Frivy Seal, resigned
and Viscount Saito, ex-Premier, was anpointed in his position
on December 26th. The appointment of Viscount Saito
indicated that there were likely tc be no new influences
affecting the Throne in the near future.*
(e) Forein Service.
Accordin to the JAFAN TIMES of December 18th, the
Minister for Foreicn Affairs has decided to send Mr. Nao-
kichi Matsunaga, Minister to Austria, on ar insnection tour
of ten months in North and South America, where he is to
confer with Japanese diplomatic officials on the political
and economic conditions of the vrrious countries visited.
It is stated that r. Hatsunara will leave Janan in the
early art of April for ashin ton and tn t subsecuently
he will visit Canada, Mexico, and Central and South American
countries.
(5)
The Press.
A new national news acency, the Domei Tsushinsha
(United News Ar ency), established at the instance of the
Jananese Government, held its first meeting on December 17
and decided to beein operations on January 1, 1936.**
The
*
Embassy's tcle,ram No. 234 of December 28, 1935.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1503 of December 27, 1935.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
The Japanese Government had lon desired to establish
such strict control over the news published in Janan that
nly the a proved patriotic point of view shculd be
presented. The establishment of the new orcanization
appeared to be only a reorganization and strengthening of
Rengo under a new name, with the object of compelling
Nippon Dempo to sell out in order that there might be
nly one news agency in Japan
IV. COURSE F LEGISLATION.
According to press reports, the following bills have
been drafted by the Government for presentation in the
Diet after its reconvening on January 2lst:
A bill to place the automobile manufacturing industry
f Janan under a system of control by means of licenses
for the protection of the Japanese industry and for the
prevention of expansion of the foreign automobile com-
panies in Japan.*
A bill providing for a national subsidy to im-
poverished towns and villages of ¥20,00,000 a year.
A bill providing for a revision of the Staple
Industries Control Law to the end that there shall be
more effective control of industries by means of a
permit system.
A bill for the organization of rice control guilds
which shall carry out autonomous control f surolus rice
in Japan, Korea, aná Formosa.
A bill to empower the Government to fix maximum
and minimum rice prices once a month instead of once
a year as formerly.
A
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1431 of August 10, 1935, and
subsequent despatches.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
A bill for the regulation of the amount of rice
marketed for the purpose of lessening the financial
buraens of the state caused by purchases of rice, with
the further provision that the Government will cause
cooperative societies, agricultural societies and city,
town and village oreanizations jointly to store unhulled
rice.
A bill for the control of raw silk cocoon trans-
actions.
A bill for the revision of the present Silk Business
Law to make it applicaole to cocoon raisers as well as
silk reelers.
A bill for the control of the manufacture and sale
of fertilizers.
A bill providin for the founding of a Central ank
for Commercial and Industrial Guilds with a capitalization
of ¥5,000,000, of which ¥2,000,000 shall be paid by the
Government.
A bill providin for an increase in the custons
tariff on asoline by 1.7 sen per allon and on other
petroleum products to enable the Government to provide
compensation for compulsory storare of six months' oil
supplies by the oil companies operctin in Japan.
A bill providing for an increase in the tariff on
aluminum for the protection of the domestic inaustry.
A bill providin for the establishment of control
over religious bodies for the purnose of maintaining
"public oraer and eood custons".
V.

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.96)
-15-
V.
GOVE.NINT FINANCE.
The YOLIURI and the KOKUIN of December 19th reported
that an agreement to put tax increases into effect in the
fisca1 year 1937-1938 had been reached by the Cabinet
Inquiry Council and the Finance Ministry. Acccrding to the
TOKYO NICHI NICHI & OSA MAIICII of December 29th, the
Ministry of Finance decided on Dece ber 27th to fix the
issue of bonds for the fiscal year 1937 at ¥755,000,000,
which represents e reducticn of ¥74,000,000 from the bond
issue for the fiscal year 1935-1935.
VI.
GELERL.. ECOO.IC A D FI...ACIAL CO.LITIONS.
(a)
Foreign Trade.
Japanese exports for December amounted to ¥222,796,000
and imports into this countr were ¥246,338,c00 as compared
with November exports of ¥218,386,000 and imports of
¥212,236,000.
The exports from Janan for the year 1935 were
¥2,499,073,000 and inorts wer ¥2, 472,233,000, renresentin
a favorable balance of trade of ¥25,837,000, while exports
for the year 1934 amounted to ¥2,171, 923,000and imperts
for th.t year amounted to ¥2,282,531,000, renresenting an
unfavorable balance of trade of vll0,s0s,o00.*
According to the SA MAIIC.I of Dece ber 27th,
Japanese tin plate is now welcomed in Australia as &
result of
a test exnortation of about fifty tons in the
spring of 1935, and this product will be exported to
Cantrcl and South American countries and to Mexico durine
the early part of the yeer 193o to compet• with the
American and British tin plate.
(b)
* Figures obtained from the Commercial Attaché.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.92)
- 17 -
(b) Financial Trends.
During the month of December the note issue reeched
a hich level for the yeai; bank denosits and lcans inc eased
over those for Noveiber; the steel marhet ves very active,
stock prices reachin the hi hest level for the year; and
the avera e yen sellin rete wes 0.28625.*
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICA. COMMERCIAL INT.STS.
Nothing to renort.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIC. COMERCIA I. TERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR AD ENICRATIO...
Notlhing to renort.
X. MICCELLAMOUS.
It was renorted by the JAialt DVTISLR or Dececber 18th
thet the Kyoto District Court had established the fuct that
the Omotokye sect w's workine for the reconstructicn of the
Jananese State, wiich is founded on the sovereirnt: of tho
Emperor. For some time the uulcial authorities have been
investiratin the alle ei rrauaulent aetivitics ci the
Omotokys sect ia cellecti cautribut:o. cn the t en th
of the sect' ruture ecene ie ie r fer tr enter  tioa
of unenpl yment.
72A

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/625
#1706
SEE
FOR
894.032/
Japan
Grew
Mar. 5, 1936
FROM
--) DATED
XTOX
NAME
1-1187
15
REGARDING: the Diet election of February 20, 1936. Report concerning
-, and its bearing on the attempted coup d'etat of February 26, 1936.
dew
11

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.77)
. 1708.
Toxyo, Mareh 5, i9ns.
OUBJECT1
TUE DIET KLRCTI E SF FEBRUARY GO LONG,
AND ITO BEARLNG ON THE UPNIBING OF
FRBRUAEY E6, 1935.
The Bouorable
The Seoretory of State,
wasnindton.
sir1
The resulte f the Diet eleeti n meld on Pebrusry
 aper to ve n n of the iedlete couos of
the u rising thet roxe cut aix trys lstur vltn the
murder of Aémiral Viseount Seits, Finanee simtster
Tekahambi, Generel Prta a e, snd Colooel Matsuo, the
"romier  brother-l lan." Boever, the Suadsmental
gaueee boneetn the uthpeed Cst mos ovsrs yeare snd
are bound uy witt a fesling of discontent in the Army
over politleel snd socisl condirias is Japen.
In
FEmbessy e tolegra No. f of Februmry a, Trd.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.83)
一-
In their campsigming before the elsetion the two
prineipal  olitieml pertier ers at verience in severel
important ints. Althowh both eppoured to stend for e
"positive forelg poliey", for the im rovement sf egri-
cultural interests, und for the reliof of looel fim nee,
the Belyukat advoonted poli loel reform for the sbolish-
ment or buresuereey snd Inmisted u on the resignetion of
the Sxade Cobinet, whi eh the Minmeito continued t, su port.
The Seiyukel wae re prted to re desirome f the abolition
of the "senior atatcsuen blne", while there was no evidenes
that the Minmeito was  eed t c nsultetlon af the
senier atstemmen by tne Smperer and the Sovernment, & prae-
tlee salutalned doring thr Lmoumbery of the Geito and
Oxedn Cabinets *In a speeen de:ivered on February B Mr.
Chuji Weehide, President of the Minsoito Party snd Minister
for Comceree end Industry, it ted thnt in tan  alief of
h y tr Joale 
ty t ive J rl tht t situat n
cutd t be andled by a slmgle foction, at that the
whole nat:an aust set its wind tu its and tart to who its
eoavletlon in thie hollef a d to eerrs out its funetlen an
a netiome! porty the Minseito sed mu  orted the saito
Cobinet ann later the Oredt Co net. as a part of ito
pletform ths Kokumin Comel "dvecs ted consistohey between
militery and diplometle oti n, ndros ttan f publlo
neelth. The Chomakal, the eely org niaed pre-Government
perty, hed the slogans "Down mith thove whe disturs
0201

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.83)
一第一
mationsl unity" snd "From Tagaheshl finance springs
business pros erity". The Shaxei Telsbute, or Social
Mess Farty, was sald to favor mat b  shment of demo-
oretic porlsamentary politios,  sitin t, igher
tazes on the manses, immedinte sdoption of she metiun-
el penslon syatez, nd st te mrnagerent of im  rtent
indust:los ae p sed t, Copitelistie menageeent.
Various moabere of Sne Costmet mndr spoeking toure
durlng tae lest week of thr Diet com aign ond on Pebreary
i7 the Fremler sd reasee a ublie vesting at the Mibiye
Publle Bell hold under the eumriees or the Cabinet, on
aotion walon ths ahaal tereed unpreeedanted in the history
of Jo ane Premler Ohano reiteratwd the pletrorm of the
Goferomont mdo ted at the formetlon of the Cabinet*, set
forth the Oovernsent's reasons for dls olution of the
Diet an Januery l, snd ttri te thr sund als af
de ants fin nees t the untirtg wrrts of Pioanee inle
tar Tsesha oht.
The Aray snd tr Vavy we re rted t desiro e 
reuit or ta leetine rrsietlon f she Crbinst snd
the formstion of a "atrorser" Governeent.
cordiagto
the Wichi Wicki of Februery la,  th sorvices moped for
the emergenoe of
strong cebinet "refleoting the revall-
ins internstionel aitust an" cnd  eld the telief thet the
netlen oo d not solve its preeent diffienlties so long as
the Ousde Cat net felled t srsap tho emergoney mature of
the tatorast mal situetion and remai ed wnder the restreine
of ths politieel parties "and other ferees at orde with
SEmbesay's deepateh No. sis af August S, Tmad.

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.80)
一4-
mational defense and ths ezeoution of the nstlonel
polity". It was reportse by MIr s Dhero on Pebrwary
l0 thet the military inslatet that regardless of the
sutoome of the election the Ouvernment ahorld romigm
heeeuse "it ws too weax".
Before Febrnery o Osservers goner lly wers of the
opinion that tor Beiusi wo rintain its position
in tue ouse of he resent tve snd thet the Government
woud a foreed to reelgn. In wny o se, the proneunoed
gins ar te ieito e s a rlee the leotion
redweed tns Sei akel siet sests fros tar to l7a snd ln
cressed the dinseito sente from l27 tn  On, henoraing
t ths figuree vut laned by the sarks Flss of Februaty
s when ere elleved t friciel, the cndidnt
sleeted wers as fo lowss
174
19
Shaxmi Tatmauto .......
19
25
The eleetin t s reeu ted n sivims n arty  mmrity
is tt Diet. In edeition to tn roletive god fortene or
the kinmeito, the other sur rlses afforded ty ths oleetlon
were the defest of Dr. Sisaburs Susuks, Fresident of the
Geiyanal, snd the sucocen of the Shakmt Talonnto, whose
Peproseetstion was nernssed from  mombets ts it. In
this conmeetion it is rertiment to remsrk thet t ls politioal

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.83)
一5一
party is in no way comsunistie and thel the closest
parallel to it in for-ign countries would epcear tu be
She British Lebor Party.
Sn rtly sfter the sleetion remults bee me known,
Mr, Adeenl, President of ths Korumin Dosei, was Poported
to hove sroposed to Fremier Oxadn the remigmetlen of the
Cebinet "en bloo" and ite reewnstr wot: on in cos, eration
with the solfoxel for the pur ore of formlng a natlonel
ACSTOLNE O HO JAFAN ADVEATIOEN
of Yebruary Lo, the Sovernment deelced on Peoruary Ts to
rejeet r. Adreni's sugscation scd ts defer considoratiom
of tns question or Ceblnet rogonst wotion untl! sfter the
sdjourmment of the extrmordimery session ef the Diet,
soneduled to cunvene on A ri. to. Th s nowspaper almo
stused that at th mee tle the Ca ihet rriwed a
the belief thst the Sovernment w  d  e sble tr contrel
the Diet without havimg to rely on the surport of the Lokmmin
Domei.
For the mopt pert, ub io opimlon  sared t pe opti
mistie ater tas pesu ts of e Diet slectione There was
nevertnelose a c tieesble dirfer nee or ppinion as to
whether the palitical xituat n wold be stabillmod y the
lootiun. The Jaau Fls of Fabruary a at ted soat
finanolal
and ecmic cireles wer annguine sver the
eleotlon resu te on ths sround tast Nr. Tasahombi'e finan-
elel policy s uld be calcteined by ths sontinusnee in offiee
of toe Okede Cabinet through the su  ort of the Minseito.
Jn the other nand, the TukYo Aeall of Februery 25 aad the
200

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.77)
--
xa aßanX of Yeorusry #f eltributed the vietory of
Selyuret end expressed doubt shet the poliey of the
Oxade Cebinet hnd von the crafidonoe of the matiom.
Amid al! this specuiet on the outhroak of Fobruary
re ocourred. It is robanle tast the plot of the younger
Army ofrioers wae exrried ut at tais juneture partly
becsuse af des,air "ver thn livseito vietory, onspled
sith tlodge thst s ahd Oovernment woid com
cimwe in
ver. Ther ts little ialihoed tmat the
plotters wor slareed over the succese f the shnael
Telsaato, r po-elled roletrin varty.
in the on
trory, some of t r wlms of t ls Party were nown to coineido
with the objeetiwee of the redloel slemens in the aray.
soon as control of induatry oy tue etate rather than by
aepitaliets, less taxutlon of thr sasses, and therraeed
tin r t tlt
Tae oi r to ha
Taishuto mas later
ae aleerer witn tne lraoe of
stato ent ou Warch : by Yr. Bisashi Sso, » Diet member of
the farty. Aocoraing ts Domel (novs egney), after statine
that hesty eomeent un thr Pebpunry re Imcldent poa d be
l
t platform  fo:low
(1) atote managoment os is
1n01  
ootrolf r mee ir  
Foei trede () tate
msnsgement of land, mitn tnr risht wf tillege rewelning sith
the hlder of ts Land: (a) stet contrel  staple eri
oulturel  rodnetss; (a) A fondsmeate refore ln soxation
to inerease the levy n espiteliste: ( ) Creat on as s
00001

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.82)
—7-
mationel ponsion syetem, (a) Bstabllshment of oredis im-
stitutions or smsller industriallats and usinessmon;
(7) Radieal readjustment of «grerian debts; (*) Enset-
mont of e labor nnlon Law and a tonency law, anc (o)
Publle manag semt of medical institutions. A comyerisom
of the Farty's platform with the desideratm of the Army,
an ompropsed in tn vari us Army pam hlets, reweals the
feot thet ratn hswe Wery similer soolu istie alme.*
To returm to the question of the Winselse, it may be
reiterated shet tiiz Party as ct ox ressed sppositiom
to the senlor stetesmen whiie the Be yukni, like the in-
surgeats, desired the abelirion f ths whele sonior stetes-
won aystem. In the an muncoment of Sue sar Ofriee lssued
an the eranlng of Fobruery ca, it was ststedi "Agcorains
to the written dooumente of thure af iosrs, the purpose
of the  rizing wes t elist ste th ss erpetrating the
d tt,   , the
tatsn cloe t ts thro, tihnciel mogstos, the
mi iter e iomes, ths rureauoretn, mad the po lclesl porties
at ths s woneat of sert ts risis at sae and ebread in
oreer to clerify sroat  rinui lem and to pr toot and make
ifethe xl
Respectral y rours,
Jeseyh C. Grew
800.
A true copy of
GDASE
the signed origi-
Copy to Smbersr. Peiping.
nal.
粉
Bbassy, Moscow.
Mabesmy's despatch No. lösl o? November 1, lase.

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.95)
239
E2A
TELEGRAM RECEIV
OFAOE OF EDOMONIC ADYISER
A MAY 7 1936
DEPARTMENT OF 8TUIE
3
1-1886
0
FS
FROM
GRAY
94.
Tokyo
Al
Dated May 6, 1936
Division of
REc'd 8:20 a. m.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEcretary of StatE
MAY 6-1936
COPIES SENT TO
Washington.
Department of State
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.
95, 1ay 6, 6 p. m.
OnE. In his spEEch bEforE the HousE of PEers this
894.032/15
morning framier Hirota said that in rm oving the causes
of national unrest hE would avoid ExtrEmEs and would
adhere to constitutional government under the Emperor.
HE avoided concretE ExprEssions of policy but said that
the Government would clarify the national policy; would
52
perfect national defmsE whilE watching deve opmEnts in
China and Soviet Russia, would mEet nEw ExpEnditures by
strengthening national finances and improving thE taxa-
tion system; would takE drastic steps if nEed bE to er-
comE the barriers bElng Erected against JapanEsE, tradE;
2
and would if desirablE abolish somE governmental orga
or mErgE them with others in order to Effect administra
1936.
tivE reforms.
Two. The ForEgn OfficE states that thE speech of
the Minister for Fored gn Affairs was transmitted practically
in toto to thE JananEsE Embassy in Washington where it will
Speuche
bE availablE to the DEpartment.
aype
G
ThrEE.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
240
FS
2-No. 95, May 6, 6 p. m. from Tokyo
ThreE. Contrary to Expectations the Minister for
War did not givE a dEtailed account of thE causes of thE
recent incident but stated that thE causes would bE. made
public at thE proper time. HE stated that the discipline
of the army as a wholE was not affected by thE affair
and that thE troublE was caused by radicals working
bEhind thE scenes.
RR:HPD
GREW

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.96)
Received prony The Japamese
Eenikaesy, Mey 7. 1936.
∴41
FE/HTT
∴) TEXT OF FOREIGN MINISTER ARITA'S SPEECH BEFORE THE
DIET , MAY 6, 1936. RELEASABLE FOR  EDNESDAY MORNING PAPERS.
TEXT FOLLOWS:
"To insure stability in East Asia contributing thereby
to the cause of world peace and at the same time to promote the
happiness and welfare of mankind by upholding firmly interna-
tional justice has always been our rational policy.
In execution of this policy it should be, I believe,
the guiding spirit of our diplomacy to seek security and develop-
M
ment of our national life as well as to work for concord and co-
operation among all nations aná especially to maintain upon the
894.0
basis of our special and inseperable relationship with Manchoukuo
our position as stabilizing force in East Asia.
We shall of course be independent and positive in dealing
with international questions but we must take care not to impair
the honor and dignity of Japan as a great power and to strive
assiduously to conform to the august wishes of our Sovereign
2
by cultivating as set forth in the Inperial Reserint issued at
the time of Japan's withdrawal from tp Lea ue of Nations mutual
confidence between our mpire und ail other Powers and to make
known the justice of its cause throughout tie world.
Nowadays there prevuils all over the vorld un atmosphere
of aissatisfuction und unrest und tend ncies ure rife every-
where that are threatenine to the preservuation of peace. e
must first of all liminate the causes that u derlie tais
atmosphere of unrest und dissatisf etion if  ure to insure
the peace of the world.
Thile it is only natural that all nations should try to
-1-

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
42
safeguard their own interests, excess ardor in that attempt of-
ten leads a country to disregard the position of others. This
is one of the prime causes of universal unrest ma today.
One
of
cannot but hope that statesmen/the world will give serious
thought to this point as they address themselves to the task
of readjusting international relations political and economic.
We desire the maintenance of normal and peaceful rela-
tions between Japan and Manchoukuo on the one hund and the
Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics on the other. It is
unnecessary to say that ncither Jupun nor Manchoukuo harbors
any aggressive designs. That there should have occurred
nevertheless ineidents so frequently along frontiers both
between Manchoukuo and the Soviet Union and between lancnoukuo
and Outer Mongolia is most rogrettab!e.
Our Government has already called the attention of the
Soviet authorities to the fact that wunton resort to arms on
the dogmatic ussumption thut trespass has been committed upon
their territories, where there exists no clcar border demarea-
tion, cun serve no useful purpose und only injure friendly
relations between the netions concerned. I umphasize this
point aguin rost stronrly.
The Jupunese Gove rnment after consultetion with the
Governnent of Manehoukuo proposed in the midd le of Mareh
i plun
for tukin: prbper und ffective me sures for tlhe clarifieation
of the border line ull long the Sovi t Muneloukuo frontior
and simultuneously for setting up un ortun for pcacofui solution
of all torder disputes. We proposed to put this plun into
-2-

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
43
execution beginning with the Eastern frontier where disputes
have been most frequent. Now that the Soviet Union has indicat-
ed her concurrence with our views I hope that discussions on
concrete questions will begin in due course.
Direct negotiations are now in progress between Man-
choukuo and Outer Mongolia. Along with the progress of these
negotiations it is, I am told, the intention of the Government
of Manchoukuo to solve amicably various pending questions and to
establish good neighborly relations with Outer Mongolia. It is
hoped that these direct negotiations will result in an eurly
solution of all questions and particularly in the exchange of
representatives between Manchoukuo and Outer Mongolia.
The present relations between Japan and the Soviet Union
cannot be said to be altogether felicitous. Its fundamental
cause lies in the lack of comprehension on the part of Soviet
statesmen of Jupan's position in East Asiu coupled with their
baseless fears und suspicion.
The fact that the Soviet Union maintains excessive arma-
ments at remote outposts in the Far East constitutes a real
menace to th peace in this part of the world. I desire to
state definitely on this occasion that Japan in her solicitude
for peace in East Asia cunnot remuin indifferont to that fuot.
As regards Munchoukuo we continuc to ussist us much as
possible in the cconomic development of Mnehoukuo. We ure
also making pruparations for curryine out step by step the
abolition of oxtraterritoriality and adjustment and transfer of
the
administrative rights in/South Munehuria Railway Zone.
-3-

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.98)
44
With China we are to proceed witin negotiations on the
basis of the three principles expounded at the last session
of the Diet by the then Foreign Minister Mr. hirota. Only it
is essential in order to expedite these negotiations that
Chinese authorities should take a truly broad view of the
situation in Eust sia and enter upon them with firm resolve.
It is very unfortunate that apparently China as yet has
not come to a full decision. However in the face of the obvi-
ous and imperious necessity of adjusting Sino-Japanese relations
in the interest not only of our two countries but also of the
peace of East Asia it is our intention to urge the Chinese
Government to make up their mind and ut the same time to do
everything possible on our part to trin about the read justment
of our relations along all lines.
The J-p nese Government are reatly concerned over the
inroads of communist influence into East Asiu. In view of the
likelihood that red armies may march on northwards at any favor-
able moment we are awaiting developments with particular uttention
On January 22 King Georre V passed away - illustrious
monareh universally loved anu adnired for wisdom and a person-
al ity which during his long reign of twenty-five yeurs enat led
him to suide his people tirourh reat trials including the Worla
War. The new rine Edward VIII who onee visited Japan is
thoroughly conversant with the intricucies of the internetional
situation.
I desire to express our pountry's best wishes that
the British Empire may prosper as ever under King Edward's rulc
-4-

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.97)
245
and our confident hope that the traditional friondship of our
two countries will continue to grow. Thare are a number of
questions in various parts of the world which affect our mutual
interests und which aw it settlument in one way or nother.
However if Gr at Eritain and Jupan keeping in mind their old
friendship und their common responsibilities toward world peace
will give full consideration to cach other's special necds,
adjustment of their interests should not, I believe, prove too
difficult.
In Jupanese-American friendship lies the very key to
the mainten nce of peuce in the Facific. It is most fortunate
that not only re the economic relations of our two countries
complemcntary but their mutual understanding is being steadily
deepened. I belicve tht the two nutions always respecting
euch other's position nd aims should colluborate more und more
for insuring peace in the Pucific. I sh ll devote my best
efforts to the furtherunce of Jop neso-mericun emity and
understanding.
the
In the ficld of intern tional trade tend mey is more in
evid nee than ever  one mny countries brod to ttempt
exclusion of foreirn prouucts und r on: pretext or nother or
to form so-c lled cconomic blocs heavily rn d with we pons
of trade w'r. If this tend mey is left uneh ehed it will serve
only to apgravate th werld-vid depression ultim.tely puralyz-
ing intern: tion.l comneree nd sh tt rine the economio life
of ll poples.
We have tuken v ry vilahle oce sion to uree upon
-5-

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.97)
244
those countrics ubolition of their cconomic armuments as
the true and only means of suving the world from the throes
of en economic deprossion, of reulizing the common prosperity
and happiness of ull peoples und of promoting the peace of
the world.
Since our nation cannot sustain its economic life except
by securing abroad a supply of ruw matorials nd &. markct for
finished products wo shtll have to continue our efforts by
FW
friondly mouns for the abolition of cconomic armanonts but
should conditions fail to improve d spitc our endcuvours we
894,
might be compelled to dopt nocoss ry meusures in order to
meet thc situation.
Knowledge und ppreci: tion of one nother's culture
and civilizution being essential in promoting mity and good
understunding umong nutions we shall continue to foster
cultural onterprises contributing to the udvuneement of the
the
world's civilizution tlirough the dissomin tion of/noble na
profound culture of the Orient."
-6-

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 9, 1936.
Tokyo's No. 1830 of May 14 discusses
the proceedings of the extraordinary
session of the Diet opened on May 1.
The Emperor's message, usually purely
formal and perfunctory, was of unusual
significance in that it specifically
mentioned the Emperor's regret over the
February 26 incident.
The strength of the various parties
in the Lower House was as follows:
Minseito, 205; Se1yuka1, 171; Showaki, 25;
Shokai Taishuto, 18; Kokumin Dome1, 15;
others 32. A Minseito member, Mr. Kojiro
Tomita, was elected Speaker.
If you have not already read the
speeches of the Premier and the Foreign
Minister you may wish to read the trans-
lations in the clippings appended to the
despatch.
Interpellations were characterized
by unusual frankness and boldness. Much
of the interpellations were directed
against the army and its responsibility
for the February 26 incident. Other
important interpellations criticised the
vagueness of the Government's program for
sound reform and economic renovation. The
Government's replies to questions were
generally

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
generally evasive and equivocal.
The three largest political parties
vigorously assailed the Government, but
have shown no disposition to attempt to
overthrow the Cabinet. Their aim seemed
to be to make the Cabinet live up to its
responsibilities.
The Embassy comments, in conclusion,
that the bills introduced by the Government,
even if passed, will not go very far toward
allaying public unrest or effecting the
desired reformation in economic and social
matters.
894.032/153
11
FE:WTT/DLY

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.89)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 14, 1936.
874.032
No. 1830.
SUBJECT: PROCEEDINGS OF THE DIET FROM MAY & TO MAY 13,
INCLUSIVE.
AIV
136 UU 1M1 47
011
894.032/1
IS
ST
CCMATIO
N
S
A OD
C
30
6
C
COPIES SENT TO
11
R
O.N.1. AND M.I.D.
(381)
FAR LAST S
213
5
1936
I
The Honorable
EA
The Secretary of State,
washington.
A0/C
The extraordinary session of the Diet was opened
onMay 1 and the Emperor's Message was read before both
Houses on May 4. This Message, which had probably been
suggested by Premier Hirota, was of unusual significance
39
in that it specifically mentioned the Emperor's regret
over the February 26 Incident. The Emperor's concern
over political and military affairs had already been
expressed in a statement issued by Mr. Matsudaira, the
7
Imperial Household Minister, to the effect that His
Majesty had spent sleepless nights in receiving officials
and hearing reports on the development of the Incident.
The JAPAN ADVERTISER of April 28 reported that the Govern-
ment planned to allow free debate in the forthcoming Diet
session,

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
session, with the primary object of allaying public
unrest.
THE POLITICAL PARTIES
Before the convening of the Diet the Minseito
Party, which had supported the Okada Government and
which has the greatest numerical strength in the pre-
sent session, announced the following platform: (1)
an
establishment ofaindependent foreign polioy; (2) formu-
lation of a national defense program for the maintenance
of peace in the Far East; (3) stabilization of the
"living of the masses"; (4) reformation of financial
and taxation policies; (5) establishment of a new par-
liamentary system to meet all national needs; (6) funda-
mental reorganization of central and local administrative
systems; (7) reformation of the judicial system; and
(8) a reorganization of the system of education to make
it more practical. This statement of policies represents
an orientation to the changed situation after the in-
surrection of February 26 and would appear to be a re-
vision of ideas to meet the platform of the new Government.
The Minseito and the Seiyukai (the next party in
the Diet in nunerical strength) were reported to have
reached an agreement to comply with the Imperial Wish,
as expressed in the Emperor's Message of May 4, for the
cooperation of the Government and the people to effeot
national progress. On the other hand, both the Kokumin
Domei and the Shakai Taishuto (Social Mass Party) were
said to be in opposition to the Government on the ground
of the continuance of Martial Law. Declaring itself the
sole opposition party in the Diet, the Shakei Taishuto
1ssued

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.98)
一 3-
issued a statement on May 1 charging the Govermment
with failure to recognize the fact that the present
social unrest is due to "the conflicting elements of
capitalism in Japan" and to neglect of the masses. This
party also reiterated its February electoral platform,
namely, the establishment of labor parlimmentary poli-
tics, opposition to increased tares on the masses and
advocacy of increased taxes on capitalists, establishment
of a national pension system, State management of major in-
dustries, and state compensation for agrioultural losses.*
According to press reports, the strength of the
various Parties in the House of Representatives at the
opening of the Diet session was as follows: Minseito....205;
Seiyukai....171; Showakai....25; Shakai Taishuto....18;
Kokumin Domei....15; others....32. Mr. Kojiro Tomita,
as a representative of the Minseito, the party with the
largest representation in the Lower House, was elected
Speaker of that body on the day of the Die t's opening.
BILLS INTRODUCED
The most important bills thus far introduced in the
Diet are the following: a bill for the control of seditious
publications harmful to public peace and order providing
for a three years' prison term for those persons guilty
of putting forth documents and illustrations for the pur-
pose of disturbing peace and order, such as stirring up
the public mind, unsettling military discipline, and dis-
turbing financial circles" and likewise for persons guilty
of
*Imbassy's despatch No. 1706 of March 5, 1936.

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
一4 -
of circulating *rumors or false reports for the purpose
of disturbing peace and order, regardless of the methods
used"; a bill requiring that industrialists establish
retirement fund allowances for their employees; a bill
for the eatablishment of monetary organs for the benefit
of small merohants and industrialists; a bill for the
control of staple industries; a bill for the control of
the fertilizer industry; a bill to extend the life of the
Trade Protection Law, which provides for retaliatory mea-
sures against countries that restrict Japanese imports,
and as a counterbalance three bills providing for the
voluntary control of Japanese exports; a bill for the
control of the automobile industry in Japan by the es-
tablishment of a license system under which foreign auto-
mobile firms shall not be allowed to operate in Japan un-
less Japanese are admitted to ownership of a majority of
the stock;* a bill for the control of shipping routes; and
a bill revising the Iron Industry Protection Law.
The JAPAN ADVERTISER of April 8 reported that the
Cabinet mould introduce a bill providing for a broader
and more rigid protection of military secrets with stricter
provisions for the restriction on surveying, photographing,
and sketching of certain areas on land and sea to be de-
signated by the Government. The text of those bills enacted
into law will be reported to the Department as soon as
they have been promulgated in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE.
The seditious publications bill mas attacked in the
House of Represen tatives by the Minseito, the Seiyukai,
and the Shakai Taishuto on the ground that it would be
arbitrarily
*Embassy's telegram No. 165 of August 10,1935 and Embassy's
despatohes No. 1431 of August 10,1935 and No. 1440 of
August 22, 1935.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.98)
一 5 -
arbitrarily used for the restraining of freedom of
speech. This bill was also opposed in the House of
Peers. Members of the House of Representatives assailed
the three rice control bills, asserting that they were
antiquated in character.
CABINET MRMBERS' SPEECHES
The initial addresses delivered before the Diet on
May 6 by the Premier and the Ministers for Foreign Af-
fairs, War, and Finance were along the same lines as
the public utterances made by these officials since
the formation of the Hirota Cabinet on March 9, i.e.,
in consonance with the demands issued by the Army as a
condition for the formation of a new Cabinet.* Premier
Hirota deplored the February 26 Incident on account of the
anxiety caused thereby to the Throne as well as the re-
grettable deaths of high officials of State, attributed the
affair to subversive activities on the part of unruly ele-
ments inside and outside the Army, and expressed the
opinion that the Incident mould not cause the foundation
of the Army to be affected in the slightest way. He went
on to state that the Army mas enforcing stricter discipline
and that at the same time the Cabinet was determined to
eliminate the "deep-rooted evils of the situation" to
bring about a renovation of the national administration;
that the Government and Diet must avoid extremes and follow
the parliamentary system of politics created by the Consti-
tution which the Rmperor Meiji granted; that a faulty appli-
cation of constitutional politics had induced some people
to
*Rmbassy's despatches No. 1736 of March 18,1936, No. 1733 of
March 19, 1936 and No. 1803 of May 1,1936.

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
to resort to violence; that the Government was deter-
mined to devise effective measures to clarify the na-
tional policy; that Western culture had contributed
greatly to Japan's advancement but had given rise to
various evils that must now be remedied through edu-
cational changes; that as the stabilizing force in
East Asia Japan must strive for the welfare of humanity
on the basis of co-existence and co-prosperity dth
various nations in the Orient, and especially on the
basis of the inseparable relations between Japan and
"Manchukuo"; that Japan could not understand the real
intentions of the Soviet Union with respect to border
disputes and the excessive armaments of that country in
the Far East; that it was gratifying to note the peaceful
political situation in China but that one could not ignore
that this situation was fraught with difficulties; that
the Government had to replenish national defense in view
of the actions of foreign pomers; that Japan must be pre-
pared for inoreased national expendi tures and that a new
revenue policy would have to be established with this in
view; that Japan's trade with foreign countries continued
to be favorable but that the Government would have to take
proper steps to combat the obstacles confronting Japan's
trade; that the enforcement of stricter official discipline
and the renovation of administrative affairs were urgently
necessary from the far-sighted point of view; and that the
existing situation was "grave indeed". A copy of the JAPAN
1/
ADVERTISER's translation of Mr. Hirota's speech is enclosed.
The speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, a
translation

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
z/ translation of which is enclosed as published by the
JAPAN TIMES of May 6, stressed the necessity of main-
taining normal and peaceful relations between Japan and
"Manchukuo" on the one hand and the Soviet Union on the
other, relations which could not be called felicitous
at present; that Japen would expedite negotiations with
China on the basis of the three principles expounded at
the last session of the Diet by the then Foreign Minister,
Mr. Hirota; that Japan was anxiously watching the influx
of communist influence into east Asia; that the adjustment
of the respective interests of Japan and Great Britain
should not prove difficult if the two countries kept in
mind their old friendship and their common responsibilities
toward morld peace; and that the "recent unfortunate In-
cident in Tokyo" might have caused untoward consequences
in Japan's foreign relations but for the august virtue
of the Emperor and the spirit of loyalty and solidarity
manifested by the Japanese people. With regard to the
United States, Mr. Arita avomed that he would exert his
I best efforts toward the furtherance of Japanese-American
A
amity and understandi ng; asserted that in Japanese-American
friendship lay the very key to the maintenance of peace
in the Pacific; and remarked that not only mere the economic
relations of the two countries complementary but that also
mutual understanding between the two countries was becom-
ing deeper.
The substance of the War Minister's speech was that
discipline in the Army remained entirely unaffected by the
February 26 Incident; that the military authorities were
taking

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
taking every precaution to control any aftermath which
might result from the uprising; that the soldiers involved
in the affair were conscious of the gravity of their
actions and were showing signs of penitence; and that the
Army mould make known the particulars of the Inoident
at the proper time.
Mr. Baba, the Finance Minister, said that national
expenditures were bound to increase; that some of this
increase could be met by the issuance of deficit bonds;
but that more revenue must be sought through a reforma-
tion of the tax system.
INTERPELLATIONS AND GOVERNMENT REPLIES
Interpellations during the present session of the
Diet have been characterized by a frankness and a boldness
which were lacking in those made during previous sessions.
As was to have been expected, provided the Government car-
ried out the promise mentioned above to allo free debate,
a great part of the interpellations have been directed
against the Army in general and the responsibility of the
military for the February 26 Incident in particular.
Other important interpellations have been critical of the
vagueness of the Government's program and the lack of con-
crete measures for social reform. The most striking speech
yet delivered in the Diet was that made on May 7 by Mr.
Takao Saito of the Minseito, who spoke courageously for
liberaliam and roundly berated the Army for its responsi-
bility for the February 26 assassinations.* In an inter-
view with the JAPAN ADVERTISER on May 13 Mr. Saito was
guoted
*Embassy's despatch No. 1826 of May 13, 1936.

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
quoted by this newspaper as having said that he would
even give his life in the name of constitutional govern-
ment in Japan; that he was fundamentally a liberal; that
he had studied in the United States at Yale University
and that in his opinion merican liberalism had had
some effect on him, al though he had been a liberal since
hia student days in Japan; that in his 25 years as a
member of the Diet he had never seen a time when consti-
tutional government in Japan needed to be championed
more than it did today; and that parliamentarianimm and
political and economic freedom must be preserved if Japan
was to raise the standard of national life and to become
a real force in the advance of human civilization.
Mr. Hisashi Aso of the Shakai Taishuto endorsed Mr.
Saito's opinions on the day following the latter's speech
and added that social unrest mas one of the contributory
causes of the Incident and that the Government had no
concrete plans for social and economio renovation. On
March 12 Mr. Chokichi Miyamak: of the Seiyukai blamed the
military authorities for not l..ving watched the actions
of the rebellious officers, sinc- the latter were known
to hold subversive ideas; censured the Army for discussing
such a wide range of subjects as political, economic, agri-
cultural and other questions, which are under the juris-
diotion of various Departments; asserted that the public
was laughing at the Army because such questions could not
be so easily understood; and severely criticized the Army
for

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
for having supplied food to the rebels during the
February 26 Inoident and for not having suppressed
the inmurrectionary movement at once by armed force.
The reply of the War Minister to these criticisms was
that he would do his best. On the same day Mr. Takeo
Sugiura, Independent, asked the War Minister if the
recent outbreak had not been due to the lenient atti-
tude taken by the authorities concerned toward the men
involved in the May 15 Incident, to which General Tera-
uchi replied that this may have been one of the causes
but that it had not been the single cause of the Incident.
Mr. Kojiro Iwasaki of the Seiyukai charged that
since the beginning of the Showe era the military schools
had been inculcating extreme ideas in the students and
the War Minister emphatically denied this allegation. Mr.
Kojiro Tsutsumi of the Minseito took strong exception to
the Friday conferences of the Ministers of War, Navy, and
Foreign Affairs decided upon on April 24* on the score that
such conferences would have an unfavorable infl uence on
the national mind for the reason that they would give the
impression that diplomacy was controlled by the War and
Navy Ministers. Dr. Etsujiro Uehara of the Seiyukai cri-
ticized the present system of appointing a War Minister
only upon the recommendation of the Army, saying that
such a procedure was contrary to the interests of parlia-
mentary government. Furthermore, he told the Minister for
Foreign Affairs that it was the latter's duty to make it
clear to various countries that Japan's commercial advance-
ment abroad mas not for the purpose of territorial
ambition
*See Monthly Report for April,1936, Section III (a)

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
-11 -
ambition.
Secret sessions were held in both Houses at which
the War Minister replied to pointed questions concern-
ing the February 26 Incident. Nothing definite is
known concerning General Terauchi's replies in the Lower
House, other than the report that he stated that it was
not a fundamental defect in the Army's system of train-
ing that had been responsible for the Incident. However,
according to DOMEI of May 7, when questioned on inter-
ferenoe in political affairs by the military the War
Minister replied that the political views of thm Army men
should be expressed through the War Office. According
to the same news agenoy, Viscount Yukimitsu of the
House of Peers put the following questions to the War
Minister: what are the prospects for the trial of the
guilty officers?; about when was the rebellious nature
of the Incident recognized?; why mas a plot of such an
extensive nature not detected beforehand? General Tere-
uchi's replies were reported to have been the following:
that he could say nothing as to the date of the trial;
that he felt deep regret over the Army's failure to de-
tect the plot; and that the rebellious nature of the In-
cident had been recognized by the authorities "from the
time the barracks were left".
On May 12 the War Minister refused to disclose more
details of the causes of the February 26 Incident, after
having been asked to do so by Mr. Chokichi Miyawaki of
the Minseito, whereupon the interpellator issued the
warning that refusal to divulge facts concerning the
Incident

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Incident was likely to estrange the Army from the people.
Premier Hirota was questioned by several Diet mem-
bers concerning the actual steps being taken by him to
settle Japanese-Soviet Russian difficulties peacefully
and his replies were evasive. On May 13 Mr. Tomesaburo
Shimizu of the Minseito asked Admiral Nagano, the Navy
Minister, whether there would be competition in naval
building as a result of the non-treaty status and what
the ship buildi ng capacities of Japan and the United
States were. The Navy Minister's reply mas that he was
not in a position to answer this question.
There have been a number of frank interpellations
on the Government's economic and social policies. For
example, on May 8 Mr. Hisayoshi Muramatsu of the Minseito
stated that any controlled economy not used to stabilize
the people's living would fail and issued a marning
against an increase in taxes on the masses. Similar in-
terpellations elicited from Mr. Baba, the Finance Minister,
the statement that he mouid avoid as much as possible the
imposition of taxes on the masses in effecting a revision
of the existing taxation system. In interpellating the
War Minister on the unsatisfactory state of Japan's in-
dustries from the viempoint of national defense, Mr.
Kanichiro Kamei of the Social Mass Party asserted that
the present capitalistic system of profit-seeking was
inadequate for rectifying this condition and inquired if
General Terauchi did not consider it necessary to resort
to planned economic measures backed by national control.
The War Minister replied vaguely that he agreed with the
interpellator

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
interpellator on some points but that he mished to pro-
ceed only after conferring with various circles.
A member of the Seiyukai accused the police of
having violated the Consti tution in their treatment of
persons arrested for alleged violation of the election
laws, adding that many persons had been arrested and
even punished for crimes which they had not committed
and that for this reason people had resolved to have
nothing to do with the eleotions in the future. Accord-
ing to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of May 9, the Home Minister
began his reply as follows: "It may be that many police-
men, out of too much zeal....", whereupon he was inter-
rupted by shouts of disapproval from a large part of
the members of the House of Representatives present.
It will be observed from the interpellations reported
above that they covered a wide variety of subjects; that
they dealt with the most pertinent and fundamental issues
of the moment; that they applied especially to the after-
math of the February 26 Incident; that the hitherto
dreaded military circles were freely criticized; that the
Government's replies to clearly-morded queries were
generally evasive and equivocal; and that three political
parties (the Minseito, the Seiyukmi, and the Shakai Tai-
shuto) vigorously assailed the Government.
Editorial comment in general concerning the Diet pro-
ceedings was critical of the Army and skeptical of the
new Cabinet's announced intention of bringing about the
necessary reforms. This fact may be taken as at least
二

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
a temporary indication of a more liberal atmosphere
in Japanese politics.
CONCLUSION
The conclusions to be drawn from the Diet pro-
ceedings up to date may be summarized as folloms: the
Government's bills, even if passed, will not go very
far toward allaying public unrest or the suspicions
of the Army and another "Incident* of some sort is a
possibility,in view of the new Government's apparent
unwillingness or inability to carry out reforms hoped
for by a large section of the Army and of the people.*
In this connection it is interesting to note that, ac-
cording to the NICHI NICHI of May 13, dissatisfaction
is becoming vocal in the Army over what is termed lack
of proper zeal among members of the Diet and of the
Government to cooperate with the military in dealing
with the emergency situation, as evidenced by the in-
terpellations of members of the Lower House and the
Government's replies thereto, a situation considered
by the Army to be very regrettable in viem of the "fact
that disoipline in the Army has now been restored to
normal".
While the political parties have criticized the
Government wholeheartedly they have so far not done this
with the idea of ousting the Cabinet, as did the Seiyukai
in the February session of the Diet. There has as yet
been no intimation of a motion of non-confidence in the
Government. The parties have attacked the Cabinet es-
sentially with a view to making it live up to its res-
ponsibilities, ance it has been accepted, willy-nilly,
a8
*Embassy's despatch No. 1833 of May 14, 1936.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.97)
-15-
as an emergenoy Government forced upon the nation to
tide over the situation created by the recent Incident.
It is true that the War Minister has to some extent correct-
ly voiced the intent of the present military authorities
to wipe out subversive elements in the Army, as illustrated
by the trial and death sentence of Lieutenant-Colonel Ai-
zawa.* Nevertheless, the evasiveness of General Terauchi's
replies to interpellations and his refusal to give speci-
fic details on the causesof the February 26 Incident and on
the trial of the officers involved therein give rise in
some quarters to the belier that the belligerently chau-
vinist element in the Army has not been definitely dis-
covered or eliminated. The Embassy will continue to ob-
serve and report on the Diet proceedings.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
1/2 As stated above.
80B.
GDA:g
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
n
n
MOSCO

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. /
to despatch
No.1830
dated May 13, 1936.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Thursday, May 7, 1936.
Full Text Given
conception is not well understood by
The text of the Premier's address.
the nation. Faulty application of it has
given by Domei, follows:
given a chance for various evils to ap-
"Gentlemen, the 69th session of the
pear and eventually induced some peo-
Imperial Diet was to have been con-
ple to resort to violence. The Govern-
voked carlier. Because of the recent
ment therefore means to strive for the
incident, howcver, the Cabinet chanyed
promotion of politics in accordance
hands, and upon myself descended the
with the needs of society and to carry
Imperial command to form the present
out its policies on various administra-
Government. It is an honor for me to
tive reforms in accordance with the
express before you the convictions with
stipulations of the Constitution, there-
which the Government means to break
by upholding its prestige.
through the current emergency situa-
Platform Recalled
tion in co-operation with you, thereby
"The platform of the Government
living up to the wishes of the Throne
was announced at the time of its for-
regarding promotion of the nation's
nation. The fundamentals of our po-
fortunes. We are filled with awe at
litics. internal and external, are bas-
the granting by His Majesty the Em-
ed on the upholding of the ideals with
peror of the especially gracious mes-
which the country was founded and
sage to the Diet at the opening cere-
the principle of 'one sovereign and
mony the day before yesterdsy. I am
millions of subjects united in one
resolved to act in accordance with the
body.' All Government policies must
August wishes of the Throne and to
necessarily be in accord with this in-
live up to the expectations of His
flexible idea of the national structure.
Majesty.
In executing its platform. the Govern-
"The unfortunate ircident of Feb-
ment expects to move as this idea dic-
rua:y 26 has caused the Throne deep
tates.
"Clarification of the national polity
anxiety and severely shocked the pub
lic mind. The outbreak necessitated
should always be borne in mind, es-
application of part of the martial law
pecially because of the existing situa-
tion. The Government is determined
regulations. The thought of having
to devise various effective measures in
caused a: xioty to the Throne fills us
this connection. It hopes to achieve
with trepidution. It is regrettable in
educational renovations. to cultivae
deed for the nation that high official
the national spirit and eradicate any
of the State charged with such im-
ideas detrimental to the Constitution.
portant duties should have met death
The Western culture imported from
so suddenly. The occurrence of thr
te beginning of the Meiji era. it goes
incident at the very time when the
without saying. contributed greatly to
cou"t: y had not yet suceeeded in tid-
the culture of Japan. It gave rise,
ing over its difficulties testifies to the
however, to various evils that now ne-
eventual nature of the current situa-
tion and the deep-rootedness of its
cessitate educational changes. It is
causes. The entire nation regrets what
the Government's hope to place the
happered which was unprecedented in
cducational system on a firm basis by
our history.
taking in Western culture in a man-
Army Not Shaken
ner that is not contrary to the national
"It came about because of subversive
spirit. thereby helping the develop-
activities on the part of unruly ele-
ment of Japan's own culture.
ments inside and outside the army. 1
"It hardly requires restatement that
do not believe that it will cause the
the aim of the Government's coherent
foundation of the a: my to be affected
diplomatic policy is to promote rela-
in the slightest. Had it caused th
tions with other countries in accordance
people to doubt their serse of duty
with international justice and to strive.
with regard to conscription or under.
is the stabilizing force in East Asia.
mined public support of the army. 1
for the welfare of humanity on the
would have assumed great seriousness
basis of co-existence and co-prosperity
of national import.
with various States in the Orient and
"For its part, the army is assiduously
especially on the basis of the insepar-
enforcing stricter discipline by clarify-
ab'e relations between Japan and Man-
ing the fundamental principles on
chukuo. The Government thus ex-
which it was founded. Side by side
pects to pursue a unified. independent
with it. the Government is determined
and positive diplomatic policy.
to eliminate the deep-rooted evils of
Soviet at Fault
the situation and thereby to effect re-
"The situation makes it incumbent
novation of the national administra-
on the Government to drive home to
tion.
the publie the necessity for giving full
"To do this, we must give full cog-
cognizance to Manchukuo and to make
nizance to the situation, co-operate in
even closer the economie and other
eradicating evils and proceed whole-
ties of the two countries. Unfortunate-
heartedly with the establishment and
ly. the Soviet Union. by making un-
execution of immutable national poli-
warranted conjecture regarding the in-
cies. In this spirit. the Government
tentions of the Government. has est-
expects to live up to the wishes of the
ablished excessive armaments in the
Throne and the nation through co-
Far East.
operation and unyielding faith. We
"We fail to understand the real in-
must be on our guard against resorting
tention of the Moscow Government in
to extremes and adopt the golden mean.
this connection. The Government is
I believe firmly that to meet properly
negotiating with the Soviet Union re-
the current situation it is essential to
garding the establishment of proper
maintain the prestige of the Imperial
and effective measures to prevent bor-
Constitution. The parliamentary politics
der disputes. We expect that the Soviet
of Japan were created in accordance
Government will co-operate with us
with the Constitution which the
in settling various problems to ease the
Emperor granted and are characterized
by moderation and restraint. This
situation.

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
"It is very gratifying to note that the
Trade Still Favorable
eliminated. It goes without saying that
political situation in China continues
"As regards Japan's trade with for-
the Government will strive to eradicato
comparatively peaceful. However, in
eign countries, favorable tendencies
the evils resulting from fixed systems.
the light of past experience, one cannot
have continued to characterize it in re-
Of late, the various Government de-
ignore that it is fraught with various
cent years. The advance results pri-
partments have come to lack -liaisou
difficulties. The Government hopes to
marily from the efforts made by the
among 'hemselves, It is urgently
leave nothing to be desired in devising
nation during past years. However,
necessary to eradicate this evil and
measures to encourage the promotion
in view of the marked tendency for
thereby to establish a comprehersive:
of relations between China and Japan
various obstacles to come in the way
and unified policy to be translated into
and Manchukuo by having China for-
of promotion of international trade, the
action.
sake its unwarranted attitude against
Government is making every effort to
"The Government believes, therefore,
Japan and Manchukuo. It hopes that
maintain a conciliatory attitude toward
that it is urgently necessary to re- ex-
the Chinese Government will make re-
various foreign nations in order to ease
amine its aministrative machinery and
he trade situation. If the situation
doubled efforts to co-operate with Ja-
to devise adequate measures to meet
does not improve despite our efforts.
pan toward our common aim by living
however, the Government will have to
the trend of tre times. It expects to
up to the sincere expectations of the
take proper steps to meet the situation.
set to work on measures regarding ne-
Japanese Government.
Of late, oppression has been brought
cessary renovations.
"In view of the existing international
to bear upon national life, and interests
Budget Summarized
situation. it is necessary for the Gov-
clash frequently. Under the circum-
"The budget estimates national ex-
ernment to take into consideration the
stances, the Government expects to re-
penditure and revenue for the 1936-37
movemerts of fo:eign Powers in re-
novate administration to stabilize na-
flscal year have died because of the
plenishing national defense. Efforts
tional life in its every field. Side by
dissolution of the last Diet. In ac-
must be made to adjust and strengthen
side with replenishment of commercial
cordance with the stipulations of the
nation of its fears on this score. From
various defense facilities to relieve the
and economic facilities, the Government
will adjust the social policies applied
Constitution, the estimates for the pre-
a broader defense standpoint. resources
at present to cities, towns and villages.
ceding fiscal year will be put into ef-
must be cultviated and their control
It is giving serious consideration to
fect. As the formation of the Cabinet
encouraged.
this.
came only a short time ago, the Gov-
"With the advance of the national
Spending to Increase
"Autonomoy control of rice, im-
ernment had no time to have its poli-
cies reflected in the estimates f.,r the
at home and• ab:oad, many important
tice. We must be prepared for an in-
fortunes and in view of the situations
national policies must be put into prac-
sactions. the production and sale of
a central bank for the commercial and
provement and control of cocoon tran-
important/fertilizers. establishment of
industrial guilds. stabilization of the
current fiscal year. Under the circum-
stances. was forced to resort to the
estimates which died in the last Diet
in the compilation of the budget. The
Government therefore must have far-
crease in rational expenditure. The
automopile industry, proyision for a
self-supply of liquid fuels encourage-
working budget calls for revenue of
¥2,303,300,0 0 and expenditure of the
sighted views regarding expenditure
ment of civil aviation. strengthening
same amount.
and establish a new reve ue policy to
of management in the shipping busi-
"Gentlemen, the existing situation is
place national finances on a firm basis.
ness. the laying of raihway lines and
grave indeed. The Government has be-
To do this. it is neces ary to renovate
the protection of emigration and co-
fore it a nunber of important problems
the taxation system. the ba:king sys-
lonial enterprises. al combine to con-
which demand settlement." It expects
tem and lastly finance and economy.
tribute to the deveolpment of com-
not to err in taking measures to meet
is such that local taxes have increased
"The existing state of local finances
merce. They will also contribute to
stabilization of national life.
the eventful and difficult situation."
"It fears that its efforts may not bear
year after yeal becausc of the in-
crease in national expenditure and re-
venue. Organizations destitute of n-
nancial power have been driven to the
verge of collapse. The financial bur-
dens and oppression brought to bear
tion of a special company in the To-
natural resources under a unified
hoku district with a view to exploit
policy. It also hopes to make further
"The Government contemplates crea-
Farm Aid Promised
development of the nationai fortunes
giving full cognizance to the needs of
fruit, but it hopes to contr'bute toward
through co-operation and unification by
the times.
"I trust that you will appreciate the
on them have deprived them of en-
cr:y. The Governmeni has devised
measures to relieve them with money
tisbursed from the national treasury.
efforts toward resuscitating the agri-
cultural and fishing villages and to
devise measures to relieve them
"Renovation of administrative affairs
speedy approved to various measures
intentions of the Government snd give
to be introduced into the present ses-
sion of the Diet."
It further promises to work out a
canrot be done by the application of
policy to effect fundamental improve-
Governmen: polices alone. Enforce
ment of local finances.
ment of stricter official discipline and
"Side by side with the execution of
renovation of adninistrative machinery
this policy. the Government hopes to
are urgently necessary. The Govern-
develop trade and commerce to foster
ment has decided not to be swayed by
national power. This is urgently ne-
old traditions and expects to have far-
cessary in view of the situation. In
sighted views tegarding administration.
this connection. harmony between na-
By giving full congnizance to the situa-
tional defense and commerce is neces-
tions both at home and abroad. it pro-
sary. On the other hand. the Govern-
poses to effect renovations in a such a
ment deems it advisable to work out
way as to meet the Leeds of the times.
measures in accordance with the needs
The aim of renovating the administra-
of the times regarding strengthening of
tive machinery lies in materializing ac-
essential commercial facilities. resus-
tual renovations to meet. the situation.
ciation of the farming villages, encour
To deal adequately with transitio's.
agement of medium and minor-sized
the discrepancy between social condi-
industries and improvement of the
tions and social machinery must be
banking system.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.
to despatch
No.1830 dated May 13, 1936.
from the Embassy at Tokyo..
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Wednesday, May 6, 1936.
elations. follows:
sumption that a trespass has bee
"Having aumed the responsibility
ommitted upon their territorie
lese eventful times both at home
iemarcation, can serve no usefl
ad abroad. I have the honor today
ourpome and only injure the friend
: stating my views concerning the
y relations between the nations con
reign policy of Japan.
crned. I take this occasion to em
"To insure the stability of East
phasize this point again most
sia, contributing thereby to the
strongly.
ause of world peace, and at the
Japanese Proposal
ame time to promote the happiness
"The Japanese Government, aftor
nd welfare of mankind by upholding
onsultation with the Government
rmly international justice, has al-
Manchoukuo, proposed in tho middle
vays been our national policy. And
of March last a plan for taking peo-
n the execution of this policy it
per and effective measures for the
hould be, I believe, the guiding spirit
clarification of the border line all
f our diplomacy to seek the security
along the Soviet:Manchoukuo fronti-
nd development of our national life
er, and, simultaneously, for setting
(s well as to work for conoord and
up an organ for the peacaful solu-
o-operation among all the nation
tion of all border disputes. We pro-
tnd especially to maintain. upon the
posed to put this plan into execu-
asis of our special and inseparable
tion, beginning with the sone be-
elationship with Manchoukuo. our
tween Lake Khanka and the Tumen
xosition as the stabilizing force in
Hiver on the eastern frontler, where
East Asia.
disputes have been most frequent.
Independent Attitude
And in view of the fact that nearly
"Under such a policy animated by
all of the recent incidents have taken
uch a spirit we shall of course be
place in this region, it was thought
ndependent and positive in dealing
that our practical proposal would
vith various international questions.
speedily be accepted by the Govern-
)n the other hand. we must take
ment of the Soviet Union. Now that
are not to inpair the honor and
they have indicated their concurrence
lignity of Japan as a great Power
with our views, I hope that discus-
out strive assiduously to conform to
sions of concrete qucstlons will begin
he august wishes of our Sovereign
in due course.
y cultivating, as is set forth in the
"Direct negotiations are now in
mperial Rescript issued at the timo
progross between Manchoukuo and
if Japan's withdrawal from the
Outer Mongolia. Along with the
eague of Nations, 'imutual confidence
progress of these negotiations it  is,
etween Our Empire and all the other
I am told, the intention of the Gov-
owers and make known the justice
ernment of Manchoukuo to solve
of its cause throughout the wor!d.'
amicably the various pending quem-
"Nowadays there prevails all over
tions and to establish good neigh-
he world an atmosphere of dissatis-
borly relations with Outer Mongolia.
action and unrest, and tendencies
It is hoped that theso direct negotia-
tre rife everywhere that are threaten-
tions will result in an early solution
ng to the preservation of peace. We
of all questions, and particularly in
nust fiist of all eliminate the causes
the exchange of representatives be-
est and dissatisfaction if we are to
hat underlie this atmosphere of un-
golia.
tween Manchoukuo and Outer Mon-
nsure the peace of the world. While
"As may be surmised from whai
( is (nly natural that all nations
I have said so far, the present re-
should try to safeguard their own
lations between Japan and the So-
nterests, excess of ardour in that at-
viet Union cannot be said to be al-
empt often leads a country to dis-
together felicitous The fundamen-
egard the position of others. This
tal cause of this unfortunato state
s one of the prime causes of the
of things lies, if I may may so frank-
iniversal unrest today. One cannot
out hope that the statesmen of the
ly, in the lack of comprehension on
world will give serious thoughts to
his point as they address themselves
Japan's position in East Asia, coup!-
the part of the Soviet statesmen of
o the task of readjusting internation-
ed with their baseless fears and sus-
il relations. political and economic.
piclona The fact that Soviet Union
"With those preliminary remarks
maintains excessive armaments at
1 shall now speak on our relations
her remote outposts in the Far Eas
with the Powers.
constitutes a real menace to peace in
"We desire for the sake of the
this part of the world. I desire to
peace f East Asia the maintenance
state definitely on this occaston that
of normal and peaceful relations be-
Japan in her solicitude for the peace
tween Japan and Manchoukuo on the
of East Asia cannot remain indiffer
one hand and the U.S.S.R. on the
ent to that fact.
other. It is scarcely necessary to
Policy Towards Hsinking
say that neither Japan nor Mam-
"As regards Manchoukuo, we are
houkuo harbors any aggressive de-
pursuing our immutable policy which
'gns. That there should occux
is rooted in the insperable relation-
nevertheles», incidents, such es
ship between gur two qountries, and
lave so frequently occurred in re-
alms consistently a he establiah-
suo and Outer Mongolia, is most r
statmuch 
rrettable.

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.98)
2
administrative rights in the South
Maschuria Rallway sone.
"With Chine we are to proosed with
negotiations on the besds of the three
neroe and
principles expounded at the last ses-
slos of the Diet by the then Bpreign
Minister, Mr. Hirota. Only it is -
séntial in order to expedite these ne-
gotiations that the Chinese authori-
armaments as the true and only
ties should take a truly broed view
means of mving the world from,
of tho situation in East Asia and
the throes of cconomic depresslon, of
enter upon them with a firm resolve.
realising the common prospesity and
It is very unfortunate that apparent-
happinems of all peoples and of prs-
ly China as yet has not come to a full
moting peaco in the world. Hew.
decision However, in the face of the
ever. I regret to say that our just
obvious and imperious necessity of
claims have not been acoepted by
adjusting the Sino-Japanese relations
most countries, which are expanding
in the interest not only of the two
the scope of their obatructive mee-
countries but also of the peace of
sures against trade more widely than
East Asia, it is our intention to urge
over-in some cases apparently for
the Chinese Government to make up
the sole purpose of excluding Japa-
their mind and at the ame time to
nese goods. This is a sarious mst
do everything poesible on our part
ter for our nation, which cannet sus-
to bring about the readjumtment of
tain its economic life except by secur-
our relations along all lines.
ing abroad a supply of raw material
"The Japanese Government are
and a market, for finished products.
greatly concerned over the inroads of
We shall have to continve our of-
the communist influence into East
forts by friendly means for the mitl-
Asia. It is reported that a part of
gation or abolition of econom'c arma-
the main force of the Red armies,
ment. But should the conditions fall
that moved into Shensi from Szechuan
to improve despite our endeavors, we
sometime ago, has recently invaded
might be compelled to adopt the ne-
Shansi, and is still active in that
cemsary measures in order to neet
province. Moreover, in view of the
the situation. Even then, we would,
of course, have no other end in vlew
likelihood that they may march on
than that of causing the Powers con-
northwards at any favorable moment,
cerned to roconsider their policies and
we are watching the developmonts
of placing international trade rala-
with particular attention.
tions in a free and wholesome at-
Best Wishes To Britain
mosphere.
"On the 22nd of January last King
"Finally. I should like to say a few
George V passed away-an illustrious
words on international cultural rela-
monarch, universally loved and ad-
tiona. The knowledge and apprecia-
mired for his wisdom and the rare
tion of one another's culture and
personality which, during his long
civilization is essential for promoting
reign of twenty-five years, enabled
amity and good understanding among
him to guide his people through great
nations. Since 1934 the Japanese
trials including the World War. The
(Government have given their support
new King. Edward VIII, who once
to the inauguration of various inter-
visited Japan, is thoroughly conversant
national cultural enterprises and have
with the intricacies of the inter-
encouraged their expansion besides
national situation. I desire to express
carrying on as hitherto the activities
our country's best wishes that the
In China of the Cultural Work
British Empire may prosper as ever
Bureau. As a result, a marked
under His Majesty's rule, and our
growth of interest in the study of
confident hope that the traditional
things Japanese has been recently
seen abroad. We shall continue to
friendship of our two countries will
foster the enterprises in this feld in
continue to grow. There are a num-
order to advance the cause of inter-
ber of questions in varous parts of
national understanding and human
the world, which affect our mutual
well-being. It is also our plan to
interests and which await settlement
improve and expand the various
in one way or another. However. if
facilities and institutions now under
the two countries, keeping in mind
the auspices o? the Cultural Work
their old friendship and their common
Eureau for fostering cultural co-
responsibilities toward world peace,
operation among Japan, Manchoukuo
give full consideration to each other's
and China, and for contributing to
special needs, the adjustment of their
the advancement of the world's civili-
interests should not, I belleve, prove
zation through the dissemination of
toc difficult.
'he noble and prcfound culture of the
"In the Japanese-American friend-
Orient.
hip lies the very key to the
Asks Cooperation
naintenance of peace in the Pacific.
"The recent unfortunate incident
t is most fortunate that not only
in Tokyo seems to have shocked the
ure the economic relations of the two
whole world. But for the august
countries complementary, but their
virtue of our Sovereign and the
nutual understanding is being
spirit of loyalty and solidarity mani-
steadily deepened. T believe that the
fested by our people on that occa-
Itwo nations always respecting each
sion, Japan's foreign relations might
other's pomition and aims. should
have suffered untoward conse-
collaborate more and more for in-
quences. I firmly believe that our
suring the peace of the Pacific. I
people in all walks of life should.
shall devote my best efforts to the
with a full grasp of the international
furtherance of Japanese-American
situation, work together with courage
amity and understanding.
and determination if we are to sur-
International Trade
mount the diffculties now before us
"In the Held of international trade
and to put into ezecutien the national
the tendency ls more in evidence
policy of our emmpire. Let me rely
than ever among many countrie
abroad to attempt the exclusion of
ccoperation
foreiga producta under one pretext or
another, or to form the so-calied ano-

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.91)
Cony for Department of stute.
AMBRICAN CON3ULATE
03
Teingtao, China, May 8, 1936.
M
37
Sotbin oN 1
QIAONS
1.8
 RS
0
Japunese oreign Minister's Address.
RECEIN
NOISIAO
5
COPIES SENT TO
Honorable
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.
894.032/154
Cobyin FE
Nelson Prusier Johnson.
Amerioan Ambassador,
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Feiping, ohina.
NUN 3-1936
Department of State
sir:
I have the nonor to refer to the address of
the Japanese oreign inister bofore the Diet on
2]
Hat 6, on forein affnirs. In raingtao  extra-
ordinary interest nas been aronsed v/ the speech
lther amone the Japenese or the hinese comnunity.
In fact, some Juranese fe 1 that the nost atri ing
roferences to chinu. he seotion de li, itn ussia
was longer then that wion dealt with ihina. 'he
coneulate gatners that the Jannese here feel thet
the speech indicates that Japan feels its po ioy
toward nlne is clear ensugh; little is to be g ined
by speeohes or counsel of perfeotion, whut remains
to be done lor the aohievement or Jupan' po icy
must come fro the chinese: more t lk from the
7
Jacnese...

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Japanese Foreign Office will not improve the situation.
There is no evideme in Tsingtao of any ohange in
the Japanese polioy vis-a-vis Taingteo or Shantung.
The question of a grant to the Tsingtao unicipal Tovern-
ment of 20: of the not import revenue collection at
Teingtao is again being raised by the Japunese Chamber
of Commeroe. out that will be made the subjeot of un-
other desputoh.
The Japanese community shows no partioular aotivity
nor is it giving vent to any radioal expression of oppo-
sition to the chinese. rhe losses suffered by legitimate
Japanese tradors in this city as & result of the amug-
gling in the Tientain area are keeping the Japanese com-
munity sufficiently occupied and pc hapa for that reason
poiitical questione are sept in the baokground for the
time being.
Respeotfully yours.
jaunuel 3okobin,
erinonul.
800
33/CML
Original to Embassy. .eiping.
Copy to Embasay, Nanking.
ive oopies to Department of itute.
Copy to Tsinan-iheloo.

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 6, 1936.
The Tokyo Embassy's despatch No. 1869,
May 29, 1936, outlines the proceedings of
the 69th Diet session. This session was
characterized by a freedom of speech, a
seriousness of purpose, and a lack of
political manoeuvering that were foreign
to other sessions in the immediate past.
There were many sharp criticisms voiced
of the lack of discipline in the army
and of the failure of the government to
carry out its pledges of administrative
and economic reform.
Forty-five bills were passed in the
session. The Embassy has stated that it
will submit further reports on the
legislation enacted after publication
in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE. Most of the
bills passed have little political, economic,
or social significance. From the American
standpoint the bill for the control of
the automobile industry is most important.
As the despatch is largely an account
of the "high lights" of the Diet session
you probably will not care to read it.
894.032/155
W1T
WTT/DLY

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.032
Tokyo, May 29, 1936.
No. 1869.
SUBJECT:
THE 69TH DIET SESSION FROM MAY 14 TO ITS
CLOSE ON MAY 27.
JIVIS
936 1  15111 57
OQUNICATINS
ND S
For Dastrtution-Chock
Yer
Grade1
For
Io U S A
MID
C
6N
894.032/1
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
skyin F E(3 81)
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
520m
4
Washington.
5
Sir:
5
I have the honor to submit a report on the last
two weeks of the Diet session which opened on May 1
and was formally closed on the morning of May 27.*
The session was scheduled to end on May 25 but was
extended for two days by Imperial Ordinances to per-
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
pit the passage of the employees' retirement allowance
13
OFSTATE
Interpellations and Resolutions
As reported in the Embassy's last despatch on the
cr
political parties were unusually frank and unhampered
in their criticisms of both the Army and the Government.
In the latter half of the session there were further
F/FG
interpellations
*Embassy's despatch No. 1830 of May 14, 1936.

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
interpellations concerning the lack of discipline in
the Army and the failure of the Government to provide
concrete measures for the reform of social and economic
conditions and for the clarification of the national
polity. On May 15 the Kokumin Domei, the Shakai Taishuto
(the Social Mass Party), and the Independents introduced
a resolution in the House of Representatives asking the
Government to call another special session of the Diet
for the reason that the bills thus far introduced by the
Government, including the budget bill, failed to meet the
need for the "renovation of Japan's administration in
all branches".
A few of the more interesting interpellations, which
illustrate the atmosphere of the Diet session just passed,
aregiven below as of possible interest to the Departaent.
On May 18 Mr. Uchida of the Koyukai asked the Premier if
his present advocacy of administrative reforms was not
due to the fact that he shared the views of the men in-
volved in the February 26 Incident, which question Mr.
Hirota was reported by the press to have ignored. Several
interpellations were made concerning the police precautions
that were being taken to prevent the occurrence of similar
outbreaks. Mr. Kanju Kato of the Shakai Taishuto demanded
of the Government that the Army remove the cause of possi-
ble scandals in connection with the allotment of orders
to munitions firms and at the same time made the charge
that the profits of munitions manufacturers were increasi ng
while the wages of laborers were decreasing. The Sei yukai
attacked

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.98)
一 3 -
attacked the bill for the control of seditious publica-
tions on the ground that it would be used arbitrarily
by the Government against the civilian population when
all the so-called seditious literature in question came
from the ranks of the Army. Mr. Riyo Koyama, Independent,
refused to support the resolution of the House of Repre-
sentatives which pledged faithful observance of the Im-
perial wishes set forth in the Rescript for the Diet
opening. After this act of negation, Mr. Koyama was
reported to have stated to the press that neither the
Government nor the political parties had given sufficient
evidence of their sincerity of purpose, parti cularly d th
regard to the welfare of Japanese laborers and farmers.
One of the interpellations that created a furor in
1
the House of Peers was that made by Mr. Jusha Tsumura,
who questioned the courage of Japanese Army and Navy offi-
cers and remarked that the men in the ranks seemed to be
more loyal than their superiors. Mr. Tsumura stated fur-
ther that Lieutenant Colonel Aizawa had murdered Ma jor
General Nagata and had afterward believed that he would
be allowed to proceed to his post in Formosa without
punishment; that the Arny had purposely delayed Aizawa's
trial and had given him a pension; that after the sentence
of death pronounced upon him by the Court Martial he had
gone so far as to appeal the decision; and that a matter
such as this would undoubtedly have a bad influence on
public opinion. Mr. Tsumura formally apologized for his
rash words and resigned is seat under pressure, reported-
ly because of the ire of the Army and the Navy over his
8lur

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.98)
一4 -
slur about officers in the two services. Homever, a
member of the House of Peers told the Counselor of
the Embassy confidentially that Tsumura had been in
bad odor with his colleagues; that he had been ap-
pointed to the House of Peers as a representative of
the highest taxpayers; that he had for some time used
his position in the House of Peers as a moans of in-
creasing the sale of his patent medicine: and that
members of the Upper House had been anxious to get rid
of him on almost any pretext.
Legislation Enacted
The most important debates centered around the
bills for the protection of national mobilization secrets,
the control of seditious publications, and the establish-
ment of retirement allowance funds for employees by
their employers. According to the newspapers, the first-
named bill failed of passage since the political parties
were bitterly opposed to the vagueness of its terms and
consequently held the suspicion that the Government woul d
be able to use the bill, if enacted into law, in an arbi-
trary and dictatorial fashion. After much discussion
and amendment the employees' retirement al lowance bill,
the only social measure of importance introduced in the
Diet, and the seditious publications bill were passed.
The latter bill, as amended in the Diet, forbids the
publication of "mysterious literature", which includes
anonymous documents and letters tending to disturb mili-
tary order, financial circles, or public thoughts, and
which

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
whioh provides imprisonment for not more than three
years if such literature is deliberately circulated
for the purpose of creating a disturbance and a maxi-
mum penalty of two years if the intent to create a
disturbance is la cking.
Of the forty-five bills passed by the Diet forty-
three were measures drafted by the Okada Cabinet and
the other two, drafted by the present Cabinet, were
those mentioned above. Among the other more important
enactions were the following: a bill for the control
of the automobile industry in Japan by the establish-
ment of a license system under which new foreign auto-
mobile firms shall not be allowed to operate in Japan
unless Japanese subjects are admitted to ownership of
a majority of the stock;* a bill extending the life of
2
the lam for the control of basic industries; a bill for
3
the creation of a central bank for commercial and in-
4
dustrial guilds; a shipping service control bill pro-
viding that when the Government recognizes the existence
of ruinous competition in a steamship service it will
have the authority to advise the interested parties to
stop com eticion and in the event of refusal the Govern-
ment will be empowered to prohibit navigation; a bill
for the control of the fertilizer industry; three rice
control bills; a bill for the control of exports of
1
cotton textiles, silk and rayon textiles, procelain, rubber
shoes, matches, electric lamps, and other commodities.
The Government's general budget bill amounting to
¥2,310,529,000 for the fiscal year 1936-37, about
¥28,000,000
*Embassy's telegram No. 11a of May 23, 1936.
114:197/23

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.98)
一 6 -
¥28,000,000 in excess of the l936-37 budget drafted
by former Finance Minister Takahashi, was approved by
both Houses. This excess is principally accounted for
by increased military expenditures, which the Army demanded
as a condition for participating in the recently formed
Hirota Cabinet. Thus, the budget for the coming fiscal
year is more than the 1935-36 budget by 195,115,000. The
general budget figure does not include the Special Accounts,
such as expenditures for Chosen, Taiwan, the Kwantung
Leased Territory, communications, etc., which it is thought
111 amount to about ¥829,000,000.
All five political parties of the Lower House made
statements on May 26 commenting upon the Diet session.
The Minseito announced its decision to maintain a permanent
committee to see that the Government fulfils its promises
to carry out certain resolutions attached to various laws
enacted. In the Seiyukci announcement it was asserted that
the party had co-operated with the Government and with the
Army during the Diet session and that it was now up to the
Government and the Army to show what they would do; that
if administrative reforms and strict Aray discipline were
not achieved the Government and the Army would be responsi-
ble to the peoples' representatives at the next Diet session.
The Kokunin Domei atated that the ma jor political parties
seemed to be paying only lip service to the cause of
administrative and economic reform. The Shakai Taishuto
stated that the present Cabinet seemed to be little different
from the Saito and Okada régimes. The Showakai statement
praised

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.99)
-7 -
praised the Government for the passage of its bills
in the Diet and in general was more favorable toward
the Government than the statements of the other poli-
tical parties.
Conolusion
The recent session of the Diet was charaoterized
by a freedom of speech, a seriousness of purpose, and
a lack of political maneuvering that were foreign to
other sessions in the immediate past. This session dif-
fered from other recent sessions in two distinct respects:
Diet members criticized the Army and the Government
bluntly yet at the same time approved all of the Govern-
ment's bills, save one, whereas in the two prior sessions
the Government's program of legislation was blocked for
the ends of the political parties and the parties criti-
cized the Government only mildly. Most of the bills
passed in the recent session have little political, economic,
or social significance. In the Diet session just ended
the political parties consistently censured the Government
for past evils and warned it with regard to the future.
This anomolous situation can be largely explained by
the February 26 Incident, which overthrew t.e Okada Cabinet
and brought about the formation of a new Government, whose
announced policy is one of social and economic reform to
remedy certain maladjustments. Apparently the political
parties decided to exert one more effort for parliamentary
politics and at the same time to be tolerant of the obvicus-
ly vague measures thus far adopted by the Government for
"renovation",

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
"renovation", thus giving the present Cabinet a chance
to carry out its promises in the course of time. As
stated in previous despatches, there is a definite possi-
bility of further internal political disturbances if the
Army does not execute its pledge to establish stricter
discipline in its ranks and if the Government does not
fulfil its promises of reform in economic and social
matters.*
The Embassy will submit a further report on the
legislation enacted during the recent Diet session hen
published in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
803.
GDA:c:g
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
n
n
Moscow.
*Embassy's despatches Nos. 1830 and 1833 of May 14,1936.

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./101
Deap.#1829
SEE
FOR
894.0321
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
May 13,1936.
11111
NAME
1-1197
156
REGARDING:
The Diet: Premier Hirota predicted a quiet session
of the Diet to be opened on May 1,1936. Gives
representation of the various political parties
as reported by the OSAKA MAINICHI.
0
fpe

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 14, 1936.
Tokyo's No. 1998 of August 21, 1936,
contains a digest of the forty-five laws
passed at the extraordinary session of the
Diet in May.
The Embassy states that translations of
the more important laws not already reported
are being prepared, and will be sent in the
near future.
Note that laws as follows were enacted:
(a) a law extending the term of
the Law for the Regulation and
Protection of Foreign Trade;
(b) a law requiring a permit to
export certain important staples;
(c) a law amending the Aviation
Law so as to prohibit foreign airplanes
from transporting passengers or
freight for pay between Japan and any
foreign country. This law seals Japan
against foreign commercial air
transportation.
T
WTT/DLY

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
72335
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
公E
No. 1998.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, August 21, 1936.
PC
894.032
SUBJECT:
LEGISLATION ENACTED AT THE MAY 1- MAY 27
DIET SESSION.
dile
15 1936
DEPARTMENT UF STAN
File
ion of
is
FAN AFAIRS
11
SNO:
4S-1936
SORC
Col. Johrern
epartment of
10-2-36
SBS:UW
8
For Di-trbution Check
394.032/157
Grle
A-C/C
For
No
LIA
J
HR
BECORDING D'S
Cammiva
A-C/0
SFP 17 1936
onprable
Secretary of State,
Mashington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the last aragraph of
1936
the mbassy's desputci .o. 1 of/ay 29, 1936, in which
it was stated thut the mbassy rould submit a urther
re ort on te legislation enacted durin the recent Diet
session.
1/
There is enclosed  dicest of the forty-five laws
passed at the Diet session which closed on y 27, last.
It is thouht tiat this su nary may be of use as a re-
ference.
F/FG
Translations

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.95)
Translations of the texts of the Automobile Manu-
facturing Industry Law and the La: or the Temporary
Control of Jeditious Documents heve already been trens-
mitted to the Department*. In the near future the Embassy
will trensmit translations of the other measures of interest
enacted ut the rece t iet session.
Respect ull ours,
2
Joseph . Grew.
J
inclosure: igest of forty-five las us stated.
803.
GDA:r
*Embussy's dospat . 1891 of June 11, 193,
c. 191 of June 3, 19., 
ively.

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.
to despatch
No.
of
from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
DIGEST OF TE FORTY-FIVE LANS LASSED AT TE DIET SESSION
W. ICT CLOSED ON LMAY 27, 1936.
Law No. 1 (Promulgated May 22, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Amendment of Law No. 45 of 1934,
namely, a Law Providing for the Regulation and Protection of
Foreign Trade.
The original law as promulgated in April, 1934, was ef-
fective only for a period of three years from the date of
its enforcement. By the new measure, the period of the
effectiveness of the Law has been extended from three years
to six years. In other words, the Law remains effective
until April 30, 1940.
Law No. 2 (Promulgated May 22, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Amendment of the National Tax
Collection Law (Promulgated on April 1, 1897).
An amendment made to the original Law (2nd Paragraph,
Article 5) provides that to meet the expenses necessary
for collecting national taxes (land tax and other taxes
imposed by Imperial ordinance. in cities, towns, and villa-
ges the Government shall grant to such cities, tovms, and
villages a certain amount to be determined by Imperial
ordinance. Under the former system, the amount of the
grant-in-aid by the Government to cities, towms, and villa-
ges for defraying the exoenses necessary for the collection
of such taxes vas fixed at 3. of the amount of taxes collect-
ed by the respective cities, tovms, end villages.
Law No. 3 (Promulgated May 25, 1936)
A Law Providing ror the Issuance of a etional Loan in
Order to Meet the xpenditures Stipulated in the General
Budget for the Fiscal Year 193o-37.
Article 1 of this Law provides that for the purpose
stated above, the Government  ay issue public bonds or borrow
money to the extent of Yen 513,000,000 apart from the amount
of public loans which the Government is authorized to issue
under the terms of laws other than the present Law. Article
2 provides that for the purpose of obtaining the amount of
money which must be carried forward to the fiscal year
1937-33 in the General Budget for 1936-37, the Government
may issue public 1 ans or borrrow money a art irom the
amount of loans the Government is authorized to issue under
law: other than the present one but that the total emount
of money to be raised under Articles 1 and 2 of the present
Law shall not exceed Yen 513,C00,000.
The Law further provides that in case there is a necessity
to cover the difference in the face value end the iscue value
of such loans issued under Articles 1 and 2, the Government may
issue

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
issue public loans or borrow money beyond the pre-
scribed limit of Yen 513,000,000.
Law No. 4 (Promulgated May 25, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Transfer of Special Accounts
Funds to the General Accounts for the Purpose of Meeting
the Expenditures Stipulated in the General Budget for
the Fiscal Year 1936-37.
For the purpose stated above this law authorizes the
Government to transfer to the general accounts funds
belonging to the special accounts for Communications,
Railways, the Kwantung Bureau, the Chosen Government-
General, the Taiwan Government-General, the Karafuto
Office, and the South Seas Office.
Law No. 5. (Promulgated Liay 25, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Amendment of Law Mo. 1 of 1932.
Law No. 1 of 1932 authorized the Government to issue
a public loan or borrow money to the extent of Yen 820,
600,o00 for the purpose of defraying the expenses of the
Manchurian Incident, apart from the amount of the loans
which the Government was authorized to raise under Im-
perial ordinances o. 6, .o. 14 and No. 19 of 1932.
Under the tems of the new Lew, the limit of the amount
of loans to be raised or money to be borrowed by the
Government in connection with the Manchurian Incident
has been increased from Yen 820,600,000 t0¥994,500,000.
Law No. 6 (Pronulgated ..ay 25, 1936)
A Lew Providing for the Amendment of Law Ho. 7 of 1934.
Law o. 7 of 1934 provided for the issuance of a
national loan to the amount of Yen 50,0c0,000 for the
purpose of granting cash gratuities to officers and
others who rendered meritorious services in connection
with the .anchurian Incident. Under the terms of the
present amendment law, the limit of the loan to be
issued by the Government has been incret sed from
Yen 50,C00,000 to Yen 58,4c0,000.
Law No. 7 (Pronulgated …ay 25, 1936)
A Law -rovi ing for the Amendment of Law  o. 52 of
1923 (A Law Concerning the ualifications of Judicial
Probationers and Lawyers.)
The amendment has no significance, it being merely
an alteration of e few words used in the text of the
ola law.
Law No. 8 (Promulgated May 25, 1936)
A Law rroviding for the Amendment of the Law Re-
lating to the Special Loans made by, the Bank of Japan
during the financial anic of 1927 Andemnification of
losses incurred thereby.

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
To relieve the banks in distress which were involved
in the financial panic of the spring of 1927, the Govern-
ment enacted the Special Aocommodation Act authorising
the Bank of Japan to advance loans to those hanks which
were in distress in May, 1927, with the guaranty of the
Government to indemnify the losses incurred by the
Bank on that account. The ten-year period for the special
accomodation by means of discount of bills drawn for
the purpose of rewriting the bills mentioned in Article
1 of the old lew is extended by the new law to twenty
years.
Law No. 9 (Promulgated May 25, 1936)
A Law Relating to the Control of the Method of Dis-
posal of Silk Worm Cocoons.
This is a new act defining the methods of disposing
of silk worm cocoons raised by sericulturists as follows:
(1) transactions in dried cocoons, (2) transactions in
raw cocoons according to contracts made before the har-
vesting of the cocoon crop, (3) reeling into yarns by
sericultural or other industrial associations, end (4)
other vays specially designated by Imperial ordinance.
The law further provides for detailed rules for the
official examination of cocoons.
Law o. 10 (1romulgated May 25, 1936)
A Law -roviding for the Amendment of the Law of Seri-
cultural Associations (originelly enacted as Law o. 24 of
1931 and promulgated on March 30 of that year).
The revised measure affects 19 articles of the original
Law Providing for the Organization of Sericultural Asso-
ciations, qualifications of the members thereof, rules
relating to the dissolution of such associations, etc.,etc.
Law No. 11 (Promulgated ay 25, 1936)
A Law Froviding for the Amendment of the Sericultural
Industry Law (originally enacted as Lew Ho. 47 of lall
and promulated on iarch 29 of that year).
The revised law affects several articles of the original
Law Concerning the steblishment of Joint Sericultural
Associations for the Purpose of Promoting the Develonment
of Sericultural Interests and accelerating the improvement
of sericultural products through the cooperation of
members. The revision does not in the least affect the
fundamental nature of the original law.
Law No. 1 (Promulgated May , 1936)
A Law Iroviding for the Amendment of the Labor xchange
Law (originally promulgated as Law No. 55 of April 9, 1921)
The new law provides merely for slight changes in the
phraseology of eight articles of the old law.
Law

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
Law No. 13 (Promulgated May 26, 1936)
A Law Proviuing for the Amendment of the Chinese
Cultural Undertakings Special Account Law (originally
promulgated as Law No. 36 of arch 31, 1923).
The amendment adds a new paragraph to the supple-
mentary rules of the law, the additional paragraph
re: ding, "For the time being, commencing with the
1936-37 fiscal year, the amount of the expenditure
from the Special Account for Chinese Cultural Under-
takings may exceed the limit specified in Article
7 of this law, but not by more than Yen 1,000,000"
(Article 7 referred to reads, "The expenditure to be
disbursed from the Special Account shall not exceed
Yen 3,000,000 a year, excluding the funds contributed".)
Law No. 14 (Promulgated ey 26, 1936)
A Law Froviding for the Establishment of a Central
Bank for Comnercial and Industrial Cooperative Societies.
The purpose of the new law is to afford monetary
facilities for the benefit of commercial cooperative
societies, industrial coonerative societies, end export
associations. The principal provisions of this law are
the following: the Central Bank for Commercial and In-
dustrial Cooperative Societies shall be a juridical
person and its head uarters shall be established in
Tokyo; the Bank shall have a capital of Yen 10,O00,000
end shall remain in existence for a period of fifty
years, which period may be extended subject to the
permission of the competent minister of tate; and
for obtaining funds the unk may issue commercial
and industrial debentures to an amount not exceeding
ten times its paid up cupital.
Law No. 15 (Promulgated may 2, 1936)
A Law Providing for the stablisiment of the North-
eastern Industrial Company.
This uct provides for the organization of a seni-
official, joint stock company to be knovm as the North-
eastern Industrial Company, the ur ose of which will be
to further the dcvelopment of industrial enterprises
in the northeastern districts of Japan. According to the
terms of the law, the Northeastern Industrial Compeny
shall be cepitalized at Yen 30,000,000, which is to be
subscribed by the Government, by public corporations,
and by juridical persons and individuals; the term of
existence of the Company shall be limited to 50 years,
with the provision that its life may be extended by the
Gover. ment; cnd the Company shell be concerned ith such
enterprises as fertilizers and chemical industries, the
exploitation and develo ment of merine and mineral
products, lund reclamation work, etc.
Law.

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
Law No. 16 (Promul ated May 26, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Establishment of the
Northeastern Eloctric Power Development Company.
This law provides that a semi-official, joint stock
Tohiker
company known as the Northeastern lectric Power
Development Company shall be established for the
generation of electric power to be used by industrial
enterprises in the northeastern district with a view
to accelerating the economic nd industrial development
of that region; that the Company shall be capitalized
at Yen 30,Oc0,Oc0, which shall be subscribed by the
Government, by public corporations and by juridical
persons or individuals; that the period of existence
of the Company shall be limited to fifty years, al-
though this period may be extended with the permission
of the Gover ment; and that all the aff irs of the
Company shall be placed under the control of the
Gover:ment.
Law No. 17 (Promulgated May 26, 1936)
A Law Froviding for the Amendment of the Railway
Construction Law (promulgated as aw 1o. 37 of 1922).
This law provides for the audition of five new
lines to the state railvay lines to be newly con-
structed under the state ilway Construction Law
promulgated in 1922. The new lines to be added to
the construction program are to be built in Fukuoka,
Hyogo, Saga, Hokkaido, and other prefectures.
Law No. 18 (Promulgated .ay 26, 1930)
. Law -roviding for the Issu nce of e Public Loan
for the urpose of Government Purchese of four pri-
vately ovmed railway lines.
The measure authorizes the Government to issue a new
public loan in connection with the purchase of the fol-
lowing railway lines: Iwate lectric ilway, irohama
Railvay, Anan ailway, nd usebo ailway.
Law No. 19. (Promul ated Hay 20, 1936)
Compensation
A Law Providing ror the to lectric Railvay Compeny.
This measure authorizes the Government to issue
new public loan in order to rise funds vith which to
compensate the to lectric ailway Company for the loss
of its business resulting irom the construction of e new
state railway line which will run parallel to the Com-
pany's line.
Law No. 20 (Promulgated may 7, 1936).
A Law Providing for Revision of the Chosen Under-
takings Loan Law ( originally promul.uted as aw .o. 11
of 1927).
The

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
The measure provides for an increase in the
amount of the loan for financing various business
undertakings in Chosen from Yen 615,800,000 to
Yen 696,200,000.
Law No. 21 (Promulgated May 27, 1936)
A Law Providing for Revision of the Law Amending
the Agrarian Debt Adjustment Cooperative Societies
Law (originally promulgated as Law No. 21 of March
29,1933.
The latest amendment extends from three to six
years the period of existence of these societies.
Law No. 22 (Promulgated May 27, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Autonomous Control of
Rice and Cereals.
This act provides for the autonomous control
of rice and other cereals in Japan Proper, Chosen,
and Taiwan for the purpose of regulating supply
and demand in connection with the present over-
supply. To the above-mentionedrice and cereal
control societies are to be organized in all dis-
tricts throughout Japan Proper, Chosen and Taiwan
by rice producers and owners of rice producing
land who shall hold under joint control any super-
fluous supplies of rice or other cereals.
Law No. 23 (Promulgated May 27, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Amendment of the Law for
the Control of Rice and Cereals (promulgated as
Law No. 23 of 1933).
Most of the amendments are unimportant in char-
acter. However, the law provides that wheat and
wheat flour shail be added to the items mentioned
in Articles 8, 9, and 12 of the law of 1933. The
Articles of the old law in question provide that
the Government might for a certain limited period
restrict imports of, or increase, decrease or abolish
import duties on rice, millet, Kaoliang millet, panicum
and panicum millet. The addition of wheat and wheat
flour to this list of cereals may possibly be ex-
plained by the restrictive tariff measures against
Japanese impor ts recently adopted by the Australian
Government.
Law No. 24 (Promulgated May 27, 1936)
A Law Providing Subvention for Joint Storing of
Unhulled Rice.
This measure provides that, when industrial co-
operative societies, agricultural associations, or
other similar bodies designated by Imperial Ordinance
store unhulled rice for the purpose of regulating

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
the quantity of rice arriving on the market from
producing districts or for the purpose of providing
for short crop or famine, the Government may deliver
to such bodies a quantity of rice belonging to the
Special Account for Rice Demand and Supply Control,
not exceeding 300,000 koku a year.
Law No. 25 (Promulgated May 27, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Amendment of the Law
Relating to the Control of Important Industries
(promulgated as Law No. 40 on April 1, 1931).
The new law extends the life of the old one for
five years or from June 193o to June 194l. The other
amendments are unimportant, since they are merely
minor changes in phraseology.
Law No. 26 (Promulgated May 27, 1936)
A Law for the Control of Important Expor ts.
This measure provides that important staple goods
shall not be exported for sale in foreign markets
unless a pernit for such exportation has been obtained
from the competent Ministry after a proper official
examination. It is also provided that the classes of
important export goods to which this law applies shall
be designated by separate order or ordinance.
Law No. 27 (Promulgated May 27, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Amendment of the Law
Pertaining to the Control of Expor ts of Silk Textiles
(originally promulgated on ∆pri1 1, 1927).
This amendment measure changes five articles of
the original law so that now they do not conflict
with the new Law for the Control of Important Export
Goods (mentioned above).
Law No. 28 (Promulgated May 27, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Revision of the Export
Association Law (originally promulgated March, 1925).
The amendments contained in this law are un-
important, affecting the penal clauses of the law
principaliy.
Law No. 29 (Promulgated May 28, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Protective Observation
of Persons Charged with Crimes Involving Dangerous
Thought.
This law provides that persons charged with crimes
involving dangerous. thought whose sentences are pend-
ing or who have served their terms or who have been
provisionally released, shall be placed under the "pro-
tection" and surveillance of the competent authorities
for a period of two years. During this period special

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
officers shall be designated to observe the
thoughts and actions of such persons lest the
latter should commit crimes of the sort already
committed.*
Law No. 30 (Promulgated May 28, 1936)
A Law for the Control of the Fertilizer
Industry.
This new enactment aims, as stated in
Article 1, at maintaining a smooth relation
between demand and supply of fertilizers, at
regula ting their market price, and at helping
in the improvement and development of the fer-
tilizer manufacturing industry. For the further-
ance of these objects, the law empowers the
Government to order manufacturers to organize as-
sociations for the control of the quantity of
fertilizers to be manufactured by its members,
of sales prices, and of other matters connected
with production, supply, demand, etc. The kinds
of fertilizers to which the law applies are to
be determined by separa te order of ordinance.
Law No. 31 (Promulgated May 28, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Revision of the
Horse Racing Law (promulgated April 10, 1936
as Law No. 47).
The revised law provides that the only as-
sociation authorized to hold professional horse
races shall be the Nippon Race Association, which
shall be reorganized as a juridical person with
the object of promoting the improvement of horses
and the spreading of knowledge relating to horses.
It is further provided by the new law that
one year after the reorganization of the Nippon
Race Association all other horse racing associa-
tions shall be dissolved.
Law No. 32 (Promul gated May 28, 1956)
A Law Providing for the Revision of the Iron
Industry Encouragement Law (promulgated as Law
No. 49 of 1926).
The revisions made in the old law are un-
important, consisting principally of minor alter-
ations of a few phrases in the text.
Law No. 33 (Promulgated May 29, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Control of the
Automobile Manufacturing Industry.
This law provides for the control of the
automobile industry in Japan by the establishment
of a license system under which new foreign auto-
mobile firms shall not be allowed to operate in
* A translation of this law will be transmitted to the
Department in the near future.

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Japan and already existing foreign firms shall
not be allowed to increase their businesses
unless Japanese subjects are admitted to owner-
ship of a majority of stock. The purpose of
this law, as stated in Article 1, is to strengthen
national defense and to promote industrial progress
by establishing an automobile manufacturing in-
dustry in Japan.
A translation of the complete text of the law
was transmitted to the Department with the Embassy's
despatch No. 1891 of June 11, 1936. Translations
of the texts of three Inperial Ordinances relative
to the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law, as
published in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE of July 10, 1936,
were transmitted to the Department with the Embassy's
desp: tch No. 1944 of July 4, 1936.
Law No. 34 (Promulgated May 28, 1956)
A Law Providing for the Revision of the Aviation
Law (Promulgated as Law No. 54 of 1921).
The revision covers ten articles of the law,
nine of which have been only sli htly amended. An
important amendment, however, has been made in the
text of Article S5, vhich as revised reads: "No
aeroplanes Which aie not Japanese aeroplanes shall
engage in the transportation of passengers or
freight receiving fare therefor between a place
outside Japan and a place in Japan," whereas the
former text read, "No aeroplanes which are not
Japanese aeroplanes shall enguge in the transporta-
tion of passengers or freight receiving fare there-
for between a place in Japan and another place in
Japan."
Law No. 35 (Promulgated May 29, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Control of Shipping
Services.
This act stipulates that when the Government
recognizes the existence of ruinous competition in
a steamship service it shall be empowered to ad-
vise the interested parties to stop the competition
and in the event of refusal shall be authorized to
prohibit navigation.
Law No. 36 (Promulcated June 1, 1936)
A Law Pertaining to the Revaluation of the
Rentel Value of Land.
Under authority of Clause I of Article 9 of
the Land Tax Law, the present law provides de-
tailed regulations for the revaluation of the
rental value of land and stipulates that new
taxes based on this revaluation shall go into
effect on January 1, 1937.

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.97)
- 10 -
Law No. 37 (Promulgated on may 3u, 1936)
A Law Relating to Enforcereut of the Law for the
Revaluation of the Rental Value of Land in Connection
with the Arable Land Adjustment Law.
This is a companion law of Law No. 36 mentioned above.
It sets forth regulations for the enforcement of those
provisions of Law o. 36 that come within the purview of
the Arable Land Adjustment Law.
Law o. 38 (Promulgated may 30, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Amendment of the Customs
Tariff Law.
The measure affects ten items of the import articles
enumerated in the Import Tariff Schedule annexed to the
Customs Tariff Law. It increases the duty on vegetable
volatile oil (Tariff o. 95), mineral oil (Tariff o.
112), paraffin oil (Tariff No. ll4), acety1 salicylic
acid (Tariff 1o. 158), antifebrin (Tariff 1o. 209),
pyramidon (Tariff o. 209-3), carbonate of guiaico1
(Tariff No. 216-2), iron (Tariff o. 462), aluminum
(Tariff o. 463), etc.
A separate despatch dealing with the exact amounts
of the various increases in duty will be forwarded to
the Department in the next pouch.
Law No. 39 (Pronulgated may 30, 1936)
A Law -roviding for the Amendment of Law No. 4 of 1932,
or the Law Relatin.; to the Specific Tariff of Import
Duties (1roul teu as Lav o. 4 of June 16, 1932).
This Law revises the following tariff items in
the Law elating to the pecific Tariff of mport Duties:
Tariff N0s. 95, 112, 114, 158-2, 209-2, 209-3, 216-,
~20-2, and 462.
 despatch setting fort: the s ecific chenges in
these tariff items will be forvarded to the Departnent
in the next pouch.
Law .o. 40 (Pro...ul uted .ay 3c, 1930)
 aw Troviding ror the A endment of Lav o. 24 of
1924, or the Law .elating to Tmport Duties on uxuries
(Promulguted July 31, 1934).
Consequent upon the anendment made to the Import
Tariff Schedule annexed to the Justoms Duty Law of 1910
by Law .o. 38 of June 1, 1J36 (see above), some 1-
terations have been made in the items of articles sub-
ject to the lv0 percent ad valorem duty provided for by
the Law for Import Juties on Luxuries (Lew o. 4 of lu24).

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.95)
- 11 -
A separate despatch on this Law will be for-
warded to the Department in the next pouch.
Law No. 41 (Promulgated May 30, 1936)
A Law Providing for the Amendment of the Law Re-
lating to Subsidies to Irivate Railways in Taiwan
(Promulgated as Law No. 24 of -arch 30, 1922).
The principal emendment of the present law extends
for five years the original fifteen-year period for
the granting of subsidies to private railways in Taiwan,
provided the Governor-General of Taiwan deems such
extension to be necessary. Slight amendments are
made in a few articles of the original law relating to
the limit of the amount of subsidies and other matters.
Law No. 42 (Pro ulgated June 2, 1936).
A Law Iroviding for the stablishment of Retirement
Allowance Funds for Employees by their Employers.
This s the only important social measure presented
at the recent session of the  iet which closed on May
27, 1936.*
A translation of the text of tis lav vill be trans-
initted to the Depurtment in the next pouch.
Law No. 43 (Fromulgated June , 1936).
A Law Relatin to the ivan Development Compeny.
This law provides that the nevly or, tnized se. i-
orficial joint stock compuny knowm as the Tuiwan De-
veloment company shall conduct wndertakings ror the
develo ment of aiwan and shall sup ly funds ror that
purpose; that the jompany shall be uthorized to issue
dubentures td to tuke ce osits as in the case of
orainary banks; that the onptmny shall he ve  co itali-
cotion of ren , 0,co, subseribed by te tovermment,
ublie cor or tions, au anese s bjecte and juridical
ersons; a that the a sirs o. the Jompany sh ll be
under the control of the rover cent.
Luw :0.44 (rro.u1 :ted cume 3, 1.3).
A uw  rovidir Por the edment or the pvi s ank
Law (orici: 1ly ro ul tou as -aw o. 74 o: A ril 14,
1921.
nder the basic l the avings punks ere cuthorized
to invest funds in their  oun ion only in national
loan bonds, local loan bo ts, cr oration bonds, un
share-stocks.he
mt has slightly enlargeu the
sphere of invest ent y auding the ite.. negotiavle
sccurities
* mbassy's despatch o. 183 of y 2., 193e.

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
securities of Manchoukuo" to the list mentioned.
Law No. 45 (Promulgated June 13, 1936)
A Law for the Temporary Control of Seditious
Documents.
This law is imortant, even though temporary and of
an emergency nature. It provides for strict con-
trol of all pamphlets, "secret documents", and unsigned
or uncensored literature tending tc subvert army disci-
pline, disturb the existing financial organizution of
Janen, or provoke unrest.
A trunslation of the text of the law vas transmitted
to the epartment with the mb: ssy's des atch No. 1912
o1 June 25, 1930.

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
811.43 Insitute of Pacific
FOR
Memorandum.
894.082/
Relations/104
FROM
State Department
Hamilton
) DATED
September 26,1936
Divis on of Far
TO
NAME
1-1127
Eastern Affairs
CG
REGARDING: Brief biographic data regarding Kenkichi Yoshizawa,now a meiber of
8
House of Pecrs of the Japanese Imperial Diet,who attended the
conference of the Institute at Yosemite.
drp
158

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.93)
Sentember 20, 1936.
S:
r. en':ichi Yoshizawa,
former Jananese inister for Foreign Affairs.
Mr. Yoshizawa, who retired as  inister for oreign
Affairs in May 1932, is now a ember of tle  ouse of eers
of the Japarese Imperial "iet.
This is r. Yrshizawa's first visit to the 'nited
tates. e attended tle recent conference at Yosemite of
tle nstit te f Pacific helations, which is a non-govern-
mental body, and ie is returning to Japan b. way of urone.
Forn In 1u74, he gracuated from tl e Tokyo imperlal
University and entered tle a a ese crei n vervice.
iti tle excetion of an as:: mment tc ti o rbassy at
o cr as ipst ccretary,al f assimments a road
were at varlous osts in  ina.  1920, le was a ncinto
clief of tic s'a  ureau (f t'e oreign frice. ad fron
tiat st le was acinted inister to Iine,  ere le
served until transferred in ls to aris as mbassacor.
e was tle Jaranese  rincinal reoresentative on t'c ouncil
of the ea ue of latlons Ion tie inc-a anese conflict
heran on te ber i, i ol, m as thus the rin i al
Ja anese sockesr w) en tho ea ue took co micance ef t: at
conflict.
in ecember l 31, 1 is Pat or-in-law, r.  ai, tock
office as rime inister a s an, end P.  sl izawa was
ancinted

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2129.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, November 13, 1936.
894.032
SUBJECT: JAPANESE DIET TO CONVENE DECEMBER 24, 1936.
SIVIE
936 M  1 3
UN.CATIONS
30x
ANDREC
RECE
1936
ONI
un
MID
Fele
894.032/1
ÉETARY
9n
The Honorable
T
The Secretary of State,
59
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report the publication of an
Imperial ordinance in the Japanese official gazette of
November 9, 1936, convoking the 70th session of the Diet
ceremonially on December 26, according to the press.
Respectfully yours,
803.
E.R. Dickover
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
CC:r
F/FG

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.91)
437.6/33)
894.032
CHARGE SLIP
File No.
ENCLOSURE
CHARGE TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
Remarks
0.24.5627.29
9901
Pe-Beers
688-
690
1PE Pringg
113-47
C
RE heid
159
4.1197

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.97)
894.032
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE.894.00 P.R./109
FOR
#2221
894.032/160
FROM Japan
Grew
--) DATED
Jan 21, 1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
The Diet: Summary of developments during month of Dec., 1936.
REGARDING:
FRG.

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.99)
(c) The Diet.
The Diet System Investigetion Commission was re-
ported to heve decided on November 22 to recomrend to
the Cabinet that the Diet be convened in t e middle part
of November instead of in December. Also, on December 23
the Cabinet approved the Diet System Investigation Com-
mission's dreft of a bill, to be presented at the forth-
coming session of the Diet, providing that the Diet shall
have twenty-five days for the exanination of the budget
instead of twenty-one days as heretofore.
It

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.93)
-15-
It has already been mentioned that the major political
parties were conside rins e course of opposition ayainst the
Government in the iet seseion.* On Pecember l6 the
Seiyukei anproved a resolutlon demand ing that the politi-
cal  urties be al loved  ore freedom of s cech in the iet
sossion. Tt vill be r called that durin the May 1-Hay 7
s ceiel session of the Piet in l93e the political  arties
wore umunue ll frank in teeir critieism of both the rmy
and tie Gov. rn ent.* It seons prob . le thet criticism
of the Army tand of the government will be just as atrone
as if net stron r than it was curin the session above-
montioned.

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/703
Desp.#2271
SEE
FOR
894.032/ 161
Japan
Grew
Fob.17,1937
FROM
..) DATED
11+6/1111
NAMC
1—1127
REGARDING:
Interpellations in Beb.15 and 16,sessions of the
Diet,in regard to political sitmation:Reports -.
fpg
()

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/705
Desp·#2274
SEE
FOR
Jepan
Grew
Fob.18,1937.
FROM
) DATED
NAME
1-1127
2
REGARDING:
Interpellation by Mr.Yukio Ozaki in Japanese Diet
on Feb.17,1937:Speech was received with rapt
attention and the Government's reply was restrained.
Substance of speech.which dealt with politicel
affairs.
fpg
162

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.96)
894.022
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE ...794.00/109
FOR ....Te1/B5.,6pm
894.032/ 163
FROM ...Japan
(... Grew
..) DATED ...March.11,..1937
TO
NAME
1--1127
Statement on Japan's foreign relations made on March 8, 1937,
REGARDING:
by Minister for Foreign Affairs, in House of Peers.
CN
FRG.
16

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.96)
HE
BC
Grny
Tokyo
Dated March 11,1937
Received 11:O5 AM
Secretary of State,
shing ton.
794.00
mote
85 arch 11, 6 p.m.
032
Department's 44 March 10, 6 p.m.
894.
(ne. No officinl English version of Sato's apeech was
issued by the Foreign Office. The Embassy understood that
unofficinl translations of practicnlly the entire speech
hcd been transmitted to the United States by press corres-
pondents. The mbassy had proposed to comment by ma1l.
Two. The first part of the speech denlt with the
0
advisa ility of continuity of diplomatic policy (paragraph
three of Fmbassy's 69 March 4, 2 p.m.) but also stated
that it wns necessary at times to revise foreign policies
to meet changed conditions.
Three. Soviet Japanese relations. Snto admitted that
761.94
conditions at present are undesirable nd placed the blme
for such conditions primarily upon the existence within the
Soviet Union of the Comintern. He suggested that if the
Soviets should refuse longer to recognize the existence
of the

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.95)
Page No 85 from Tokyo.
of the Comintern within its territory or if the organiza-
tion should be transferred outside the country Soviet rela-
tions :th Japan as well as with other countries would be
brightcr.
741.94
Four. Anglo-Japanese relations. Sato emphnsized the
intention of the entire Jap nese nation to promote harmony
botween the two nations and m ntioned points of friction.
e rtimated thnt the chief point of friction lay in Sino-
Jrpt se relations. (paragraph one of Embassy's 77 March 5,
6 pen.) because of British fear that their interests in
Chine cre menaced by the Japanese advence. He said that
Japan does not wish to cause anxiety to Britain or other
countriea and tint Jepan should ascertain the causes of
such anxicty, should consi er such (uses and should
indeavop to respect the ri hts of other countries in China.
  ded that if Japan devel ps peacefully her interests
in hins it will win the full understanding of other coun'ri-
Five. Sino-Japnese re i tions. Sato admitted the
773.94
present imp sse which ho e. recterized as inevitoble. He
to ud tint en idenl auluti n er ld not be found at once
ri that it would bo nocoanory to stort with e new point
 vit w. e seid that diplem tic negotiations re normally
conluct i un a basis ef equ lity botween nations nd
intimetd rt

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.92)
Page 3 from Tokyo o 85
intimated that the difficulties in Sino-Japanese
relations have been due to Japan's sense of superiority
over Chinc. He proposed to give consideration to China's
deaands nd vital interests nd to negotinte with China
on a b sis of equality end in n conciliatory spirit whilo
mainta ning Japonese interests intact.
Six. Sato did not mention the United St tes in the
speech, a favorable indication.
usven. The speech was sonerally well received in
Joprn but only two vernacular newspapers commented on it
editcri lly. The ASAHI praised its cutspoken tone nd
charoctorized it as highly creditable but criticis:d as
impessible of vchievement Sato's suggestion that Soviet
Rusaic suparate itself from the Com ntern. The YOMIURI
praised srto's deturmination to brenk the dendlock in
Jopan's crein relations but clso ndversely criticised
th u sestion regardins Joviet Russia. The AnyrRTISuR,
TrM nd CHRorICL elso pblished cditorials commenting
favorbly on th sp ech.
"i ht. Tho mbassy  as en informed that Japanese
finanei-i nl busin ss cireles w rmly approve of Beto's
crerat on or pclicy.
 in. ( nd of section one)
GREW
CC

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.99)
1w
Tokyo
A portion of this telegram must
Dated March 11, 1937
be closely paraphrased before
beirg communicated to anyone.(B)
Rec'd 9:25 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washinton
85, March 11, 6 p.m. SECTI0J TWO
To the Embassy it appears that the significant points
in Sato's speech are (a) the emphasis upon the fact that
improvenent of relations with China will react favorably
upon relations with other countries, and (b) the intination
revealed by the tone of frierdliness and peaceful coopera-
tion on tle basis of equality in the specch that Sato dip-
lomacy w:ll asnume a more conciliatory tone than previous
diplomacy especially in regard to China. Observers point
out, however, that the Kwantung army may upset Sato's olans,
Ten. s of significance in this connection one of my
colleaues has informed me that Sato told him that before
returning to Japan he did mot think he could accept the
position of Minister for Foreign ffairs owing to the dif-
ficulty of reconciling his views with those of other members
of the Cahinet, especially those of the War Minister. To
his surprise upon consultin with the Ca inet he found that
their lews and his practically coincided resulting in his
acceptar ce of the position. This indicates a change of
policy

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.93)
1w, 2, o. 85, March 11, 6 p.m., Section Two from Tokyo
policy on the part of the military probably resulting from
their past mistakes and failures. It has also been suggested
by observers that increasing difficulties between Japan and
Soviet lussia with renewed risk of eventual war has dic-
tated the w:sdom of improving Sino-Jap an ese relations.
"leven. (Gray) Satois being interpellated a ain in the
Dic is afternoon. The abassy will report any signifi-
can elopments arisin: from the interp llations.
ated by mail to Poi. ins.
(0fes3age)
G!!

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/712
FOR
Daap.#2283
894.032/
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED Feb. 26.1337
199111
NAME
REGARDING:
164
Diet Interpellation,Mr.Yukio Ozaki:Reports -,in
lower bouse of the Diet on Feb.17,1937,and
submits translation from the official report.
fpg
9
C

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/713
Desp.#2290
SEE
FOR
894.032/ 165
Japan
Brew
Feb.27,1937
FROM
) DATED
Ho111
NAME
11.27
REGARDING:
Diet Intorpellation of Mr.Seigo Nakano: Reports -,
and gives some information identifying Mr.
Nakano.
fpg
165

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/715
Desp.#2293
SEE
FOR
894.032/166
FROM
Japen
Grew
...) DATED
Mar.1,1937.
17A111
NAME
127
REGARDING:
Diet Int erpellations from February 17 to 28,
1937,inclusive: Reports regarding the
more important - .
fpg
166

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.95)
EA
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
GRAY
Tokyo
OFFICE OF EDONNC ADVISROM
Dated March 30, 1937
APR 7 1937
Reg'd 31st, 8:45 a.m.
PEPARTMENT OF STITE
Secretary of State
Washington
A
COPIES SENT TO
894.032
O.N.I AND M.I.D.
101, March 30, 4 p.m.
894.032/167
894 0312
One. The Government has today dissolved the Lower
House and a general election is set for April 30.
Two. Of the Government bills which fail of passage
by reason of dissolutior the most important from the point
of view of Government finance is the tariff bill. Less im-
portant are bills on farming lands, xport control tax and
revision of iron manufacturing law. The budget was passed.
Three. During the last few days the Lower House has
shown itseli recalcitrant because of the Government's failure
actively to push the election revision bill through the
Upper House. This bill is not radical hut would relieve
tho parties from certain election restrictions which have
been enforced since the Inukai cabinet. The Government's
excuse for not pushing the bill is that the bill while
FULED
embodying some of the reco mondations of the election law
revision com.ission does not embody all such recommendations.
197
Four. The superficial issue on which dissolution is
based is of small importance. Dissolution is an indication
F
rather that the present government does not wish to hicker
1
G
with

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.98)
 -2- #101, Mar. 30, 4 p.m. from Toi:yo
with parties. It suggests that the Government looks with
some hope to the army-led party movement referred to in
despatches numbers 2268 and 2273 of February 18.
GREW
RR: WWC

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.96)
894.032
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/719
FOR
#2316-
894.032/ 168
FROM Japan
Grew
) DATED
March 18, 1937
TO
NAME
1--1127
Diet proceedings from Larch 1 to March 16, 1937
REGARDING:
FRG.
81

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apr11 22, 1937
Tokyo's No. 2339 of April 1, 1937,
recounts proceedings in the Diet during
the period March 17 to March 31.
It was during the period under review
that the Lower House was dissolved, a
situation which was described in another
despatch. As stated by Premier Hayashi
this action was accounted for by the
failure of the parties to "appreciate the
current situation". It is difficult to
see how the coming election returns can
appreciably alter the present composition
of the Diet. It may be, however, that
the Cabinet is hoping to make a deal
with one of the major parties, possibly
the Minseito.
Among the Government's legislative
projects which the Diet failed to approve,
to the displeasure of the Government,
were bills relating to the following:
import tariff, exemption of import duty
on iron, revision of the law on cases
entrusted to Japanese courts by foreign
courts, revision of the law for the pro-
tection of military secrets, establish-
ment of national health insurance system,
establishment of the Imperial Fuel Develop-
ment Company, etc.
TT/DLY

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
OFFIOE OF EDOCNONIC ADVISER
APR 23 1937
THE FOREIGN SEVICE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.032
Tokyo, April 1, 1937.
No. 2339.
SUBJECT:
DIET PROCEEDILGS FROL :RCH 17 TO MARCH 31,
1937.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.LDM.LD.
0M 2 0
937 AR 
641
miD
894.032/1
CopemFE(EX1)
B
A
69
The Honcrable
The Secretery of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the non'r to report th't the iet session which
re-opened on Febru ry 15 ended on Ligrch 31 with the dis-
solution of the Lower House and the tenporery suspension of
the House of Peers by t.e Government.
The Cabinet mcint ined its attitude of conciliation
long enough to obtain approvel by the Lower House of the
all-important

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
all-important budget bill but dissolved this body yester-
day, ostensibly for the reason that the Minseito and the
Seiyukai were obstructing legislation in retaliation
against the Government's failure to urge the House of
Peers to pass the election revision bills introduced by
the two parties. In ordering the dissolution of the House
of Representatives Premier Hayashi asserted that this ac-
tion was intended as a step toward a reform of the Diet
made necessary by the political perties' failure to
"appreciate the current situation". Thus it would seem
thet the real reason for the dissolution of the Diet was
the Cabinet's desire to control the affairs of the nation
in its owm way and without compromising with the political
parties.
Little can be hoped for by the Cabinet in the general
election ordered for April 30, barring a chenge of atti-
tude by the political pirties.
In the scheduled general
election the possibilities are that the Minseito and the
Seiyukai will retain the combined majority which they now
enjoy. According to the Premier's statement of yesterday,
as given by Domei, it would appeer thet he expects support
for the Government through the formation of the new politi-
cel party sponsored by the Army.* It is difficult to see,
however, how a new party could appreciably alter the pres-
ent composition of the Diet. The chences are that the new
party, if hastily organized, would be able to obtain only
a few seats in the Lower House in the coming election, and
certainly not enough to control the House. It may be,
therefore, that the Cabinet is hoping to make a deal with
one of the existing mejor parties (probably the Minseito)
874.11722
24
in
*Embassy's desyatches os. 2268 and 2273, February 1,1937.

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
in an effort to obtain control of the Diet.
The dissolution of the Diet is reported to have pleased
the militery and also the Shakai Taishuto, or Social Mass
Party. According to yesterday's OSAKA LAINICHI, the Army
feels that the Cabinet had to dissolve the Lower House to
compel the Minseito and the Seiyukai to think over the
"errors of their ways", since they had demonstrated that they
had not outgrown their old practice of putting their own in-
terests above those of the State. (There is some truth in
this assertion of the Army.) In a statement issued yesterday,
the Social Mass Party assailed the political parties for having
allegedly desired "degeneretion" of the Election Law to aid
election violators and for having passed "a huge budget
that totally ignores stabilization of the national livelihood."
Among te legislative projects which the political perties
did not approve, to the displeasure of the Government, the
following are deemed to be the most important:
the tariff
revision bill; the bill for the  reservation of military
secrets; the bill providing for state control of the elec-
tric power industry; end the bill for the regulation of the
1/
iron industr.
There is enclosed e clipping from the JAPA
ADVERTISER of ipril 1 siving a list of the Government bills
which were not enacted. As already repor ted, during the recent
session of the Diet the politic'l p: rties consistently criti-
cized the Governnent yet passed the lat er's budget bill.
While the interpellations of the pist two weeks have had
little or no bearing on the Govermnent's final decision to
dissolve the Diet, they illustrcte recent politicel tendencies
and therefore may be mentioned briefly. Most of these inter-
pellations

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
pellations have had to do with Japan's foreign policy, which
have been reported in other despatches and need not be repeated
here.
However, there were interpellations on other subjects
which are of interest. On March 22 Lir. Sato denied that Mr.
Hirota, his predecessor, had asserted to the Privy Council
tlat free fishing would be resorted to by Jepan in the event
of failure to achieve revision of the fishery convention with
the Soviet Union. It appeared fron further remarks made by
ir. Sato concerning the USsR that . apan had not changed its
policy of insisting on tri-partite representation by Japan,
"Manchukuo", and the Soviet Union on any border commission
that might be organized.
At a plenary session of the lioase of Representatives on
LMarch 19 the Chief of the Comnercicl Affairs Bureau of the
Foreign Office told an interpellator th t if te United States
should pro ose negotinti ns with apen for the canclusi n of a
reciprocal trade agreemont, such a proposal would receive the
careful consideration of the Japanese Governnent. In reply
to n interpellation in the House of Peers on March 19 to the
effect thet Japan was backw rd in civil aviati n, the omauni-
cations Minister s: id that Jopan hed not yet been able to
reach a complete settlement of the cuestion of international
airways "because of reletions with the United St tes over the
South Seas routes."
In further reference to his rem rks on Japan's foreign
policy, Mr. Sato stated on Murch 20 thet in  king his supple-
mentary explan tions on .t rcn ls* he had had no intention of
revising his original s eech.
.nree doys later te 1renier
cnd
* Eabassy's teleurun No. 90 of Murch 13, 1937.
724.00111

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
and the War Minister asserted that they were completely in
accord with the ideas of the Minister for Foreign Affairs
in the matter of Japan's foreign policy.
An interpellation by Count Yoshinori Futare in the
Nep
House of Peers on March 19 brought about an interesting dis-
cussion of Japan's political structure in its relation to for-
Huti
eign countries. Count Futara made the declaration that the
national spirit of Jepan alone could save world thought from
the chaos into which it had fallen. In reply Mr. Sato said
that the Japanese Government would do its utmost for the devel-
opment of Japanese culture and the manifestation of the Japan-
ese spirit abroad. In further explanation, Premier Hayashi
stated that the ideals on which Japan was founded were not
yet fully understood in foreign countries and that there still
existed a need to convince the world that "all of Japan's
actions are motivated by the Imperi al Way". At the same
session of the House of Peers, Baron Ryoichi Asada made the
statement that unity between the Japanese Army and the Japan-
ese people seemed to be lacking at the present time, as con-
trasted with the situ: tion at the time of the Russo-Japanese
war, which Japen was able to win because of the perfect unity
between the Army and the people.
In conclusion, it may be stated that little of a practicel
nature wes accomplished during tne Diet session under review
o ther than the approval of the Government's budget bill by the
Lower House on Me rch 8 and by the House of Peers on Merch 29.
rforts were made by the politicel rties to assert their
independence, und their opposition to the Cubinet was volubly
expressed

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
expressed, yet the Governnent's policies do not seem to
have been altered thereby. In other words, nothing appears
to have been gained by the political parties in their efforts
to establish parliamentary politics as known in other countries.*
Resyectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
803
GDA:C
Enclosure:
1/ As stated.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping;
11
Moscow.
894.832
141
* Embassy's despatch No. 1lui, Febru ry 8, 1935.

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1, to despatch
No.2339, dated April 1, 1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Thursday, April 1, 1937.
NEXT DIET TO GET
Sixteen bills passed by the Upper
House but not acted on by the Lower
House are on:
1. Revision of the Patent Law.
35 SHELVED BILLS
2. Revision of the Trademark Law.
3. Revision of the law for preven-
tion of illega! competition.
4. Revision of the Commercial Code.
5. Revision of the law governing the
organization of courts.
Dissolution Prevents Action on
6. Revision of the law on pension-
Tariff, Health Insurance.
ing of judges and procurators.
7. Revision of the Criminal Proce-
Farming Measures
dure Law.
8. Revision of the law on control of
fertilizers.
FUEL COMPANY HELD UP
9. Revision of the Conscription Law.
10. Revision of the law on protection
of military secrets.
Imperial Ordinance May Alter
12. Revision of the law on the Cen-
tral Bank for Co-operative Societies.
Law on Protection of Mili-
13. Self-auditing by co-operative
societies.
tary Secrets
14. Revision of the law on cases
entrusted to Japanese courts by for-
eign courts.
Termination by Imperial order yester-
15. Revision of the law concerning
day of the 70th Diet session left un-
attornies.
adopted 35 of the 83 bills submitted by
16. Regulation of department stores.
the Government, five of them in the
The bills not acted on by either
House of Peers and the remainder in
House are in part on:
the House of Representatives. Domei
1. Revision of the Import Tariff
understands that all of them will be
Law.
introduced in the special semion of the
2. Revision of the law on the levy-
Diet that the Government must convoke
ing of ad valorem duties.
within five months from the date of
3. Revision of the law regarding
dissolution in accordance with Articke
imports from the Kwantung Leased
45 of the Constitution. the duration of
Territory.
which will be specified in the Imperial
4. Exemption of the import duty
Rescript convoking it.
The revision of the law on protection
on iron.
5. Regulation of foreign trade
of military secrets. which the Lower
House had not yet approved. will be
guilds
enforced by an Imperial ordinance be-
6. Revision of the law on industrial
cause considered of urgent importance.
guilds.
the news agency suggests.
7. Revision of the law on Korean
The bills left in the Upper House are
tariffs.
those on:
8. Regulation of iron manifacturing.
1. Establishment of a national health
9 Establishment of the export con-
insurance system.
trol tax.
2. Provision of loans and indemnities
10. Revision of the law on pen-
for adjustment of debts in farming vil-
sions.
lages.
11. Establishment of a pension bank.
3. Establishment of the Imperial Fuel
12. Regulation of farming land
Development Company.
Also shelved were the Seiyukai and
4. Regulation of enterprises for the
Minseito measures on revision of the
liquefaction of coal.
Election Law. which had been sent to
5. Reviston of the Seamen's Law
the House of Peers.

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apri1 22, 1937
T
Tokyo's No. 2350 of Apr11 2, 1937, 1s
a well written appraisal of the situation
in conneotion with the dissolution of the
Diet. It is suggested that you will wish
to read in toto.
Following the passage by the Diet of
the budget bill, the Government was in
position to be loss conciliatory in its
attitude toward the Diet. The two major
parties had joined forces in support of a
bill for the revision of the olection law
whioh was distasteful to the Government.
With the budget bill out of the way the
parties asked the Government, in return
for support of the remaining Government
bills, to give support to their election
revision bill. When the Government showed
no indication of doing so the Lower House
recessed. This seemed to the Cabinet an
unwarranted provocation.
The following day the Diet was ordered
dissolved, and April 30 was named as the
date for a new election.
The Cabinet's purpose in obtaining an
order for dissolution was obviously to dis-
cipline the Diet for having showed a
recalcitrant attitude toward the remaining
Government

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Government bills. In a larger sense the
order for dissolution was a manoeuver by
the military leaders to overcome the grow-
ing opposition of the Diet to military
dominanoe in the Government. It was a
disciplinary action taken by the Cabinet
against the Diet -- the very reverse of
anything whioh could happen under a
parliamentary form of government. There
has been little popular outcry against the
Government's action, chiefly because of the
fact that the people have no great respeot
for the politicians and are apt to share
the Government's distrust of the Diet.
It appears that the Government is hop-
ing that a new government party will be
created to which it might throw the full
weight of its support. The Embassy suggests
that this may mark the beginning of an
attempt to form a fascist party. However,
recent press reports from Tokyo indicate
that there is little popular support of
any effort to form a new military-fostered
party.
84032/170
FE:WTT/DLY

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.92)
E
AE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.032
Tokyo, April 2, 1937.
No. 2350.
SUBJECT: AN APPRAISAL OF THE DIET DISSOLUTION.
41!
2
11
1937 1PR
894.032/170
miD
COPIES SENT TO
C.N.I. AND M.I.D.
FE (381)
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Fub
ashington.
sir:
March 31, 4 p. m., reporting the dissolution of the Japan-
ese House of Representatives on that day and reporting the
fixing of April 30 for a general election of a new House,
I have

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
I have the honor to submit the following comments with
regard to the dissolution and the present political
outlook.
Following the passage by the House of Peers on
March 29 of the five bills embodying the new budget,
previously passed by the House of Representatives, the
Government was in position to be less conciliatory in
its attitude toward the Diet.
A number of Government
bills had not been acted upon, but, with the budget passed,
none were vital.
The Minseito and Seiyukai parties mean-
time had joined foroes in support of a bill for the re-
vision of the election law, and they had sucoeeded in
passing it through the Lower House.
This bill contains
no radical features but would free the parties from a
number of hampering restrictions which have been enforoed
during the past five years. It is probably true, as the
Shakai Taishuto (proletarian or social mass party) has
since charged in a campaign statement, that the freer pro-
visions of the bill would offer greater opportunity than
now exists for abuse by the parties; but nevertheless the
proposed election law revision is not extreme and the Gov-
ernment, even since dissolution, has not chosen to attack it.
The parties would be far from free even with the passage of
the bill.
Although they had not risked an attempt to drive bar-
gains with the Government in return for the passage of the
budget, when the budget was out of the way the Seiyukai and
Minseito did ask the Government, in return for support of
the remaining Government bills, to press their election
revision bill through the House of Peers.
.On Tuesday,
March 30, the Upper House committee having jurisdiction
of the

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
of the bill met briefly and adjourned.
The Cabinet's
attitude on putting the bill through was not indicated,
but the Seiyukai and Minseito deduced, probably rightly,
that the Government would not assist.
When the Lower
House met in the afternoon of the same day it immediately
recessed.
The Cabinet met later in the afternoon and discussed
dissolution.
There was little enough provocation to the
Government in the recessing of that day's session of the
House of Representatives, but the Cabinet seemed intent on
making the most of it.
The meeting of the Cabinet was
concluded by statements to the press in which Navy Minister
Yonai (not the War Minister, be it noted) was represented
as favoring dissolution. Domei translated Yonai's words
thus: "The Minseito and the Seiyukai, in tryins to force
the Government into having their election bills passed by
delaying the proceedings in the Diet can not be ragarded
as having any sincerity.
. To make them reflect on their
attitude we should dissolve the Diet."
It was thus stated
as a disciplinary matter. Politically speaking, the Cabi-
net was well advised to have this come fron Yonai, wh is
a popular and greatly respeoted member of the Cabinet.
consequence the attack on the Diet appears as a Government
matter, not merely an Army matter; and it indioates also
that the Navy group, however opposed to Itagaki and his
followers, is not less opposed to the existing political
parties.
Next morning, Wednesday March 31, the Cabinet obtained
an order from the Emperor for dissolution. It was the
final

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
final day of the six-day prolongation of the session.
The
70th session of the Diet was thereby brought to a olose, and
April 30 was named in the order as the date for election of
members of a new Lower House. (Artiole 45 of the constitu-
tion, article 18 of the election law.)
Premier Hayashi accompanied this action with a statement
to the press in words of astonishingly frank sermonizing to
the Diet.
The following passages are quoted from the Domei
translation:
We have carried out dissolution
of the House of Representatives as a step toward reform of
the Diet.
I expected the parties to give us
more positive assistance in the execution of our convictions
and to appreciate the current situation as it is appreciated
by us.
In the final analysis, it is the question
of appreciation of the current situation that is separating
us from the parties.
I desire that the parties
think over the points on which they differ from us.
I think there would be nothing wrong should the Government
decide to cooperate with a new party that might come into
existence and would support it.
The Government has not yet
considered whether it should take positive action in the di-
rection of forming a new party.
It would be good if a party
ready to support the Government came into being of its own
accord.
There is no intention on my part to take the initi-
ative in forming such a party. I am afraid I have yet to
make up my mind regarding the matter. It is impossible to
make any forecast about the outcome of the election.
We shall determine our attitude toward the situation when the
election is over."
Up to

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Up to the present time this statement by the Premier
remains the most authoritative olue. Dissolution was a
cool, disciplinary decision of polioy, not necessitated by
any active opposition.
. The Premier's statement is the state-
ment of a man innately distristful of party government and
yet not clear what is the next step. He has practically
nothing to say in justification of dissolution; it follows
from conviction rather than for cause.
The action is for
discipline, taken by the Cabinet against the Diet -- the
very reverse of anything which could occur under a parlia-
mentary form of government.
Then, uncertain of the capacity
of the Government to set up a party itself, the Premier in-
vites an approach to the Government by any new group which
may wish to take up the Government's cause. In an interview
with newspaper men on the day of dissolution he further said:
"The Government hopes most earnestly that a party will ap-
pear, or that men will appear in politics, who are awake to
the times. We should probably be sympathetic toward each
other.
More can not be said until things take
on more definite shape."
1/
▲ clipping of the most recent press orticle on campaign
preparations is enclosed herewith.
Premier Hayashi, as an rmy man, has without doubt
given careful thought to proposals of such a new party as
was discussed in the mbassy's despatches Nos. 2268 and
273 of February 18, 1937.
. The great difficulty of making
such a new party effective in an election in the near future
appears to have been weighed and conceded.
But within the
field of politics are there not individuals or groups to
serve temporarily in a similar way?
The Government holds
out an invitation -- not sure even in its own mind what
would

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
would be the direction of events if it oould direot them,
but desiring to build up something to replace the existing
parties. Meantime, for safety, the Premier refuses to
state what sort of result in the elections would be taken
as defeat of this non-party Cabinet.
In bringing on this unnecessary and anomalous election
the Government has certain advantages in its favor.
people have no great respect for the political parties,
and condone the Government's distruct of them: there has
been no popular outory against the Cabinet's tactics in the
dissolution, nor against causing an eleotion which offers the
people no effeotive choice in anything. Second, the Govern-
ment has little to los. If a new Lower House is returned
even in about the present proportions, the Government would
simply have gained a few months' time. Third, any new
party development holds the possibility of working to the
Government's advantage.
The next four weeks will probably witness an effort by
the Government to draw, from existing political circles,
what supporters it can induce to give up the old alignments.
To these perhaps a few candidates put up by a military-
fostered party will be added. It is likely that, in an
opportunist way, the beginnings of a fascist party will be
pieced together.
.The Government is ready to assist any
talent that offers.
Respectfully yours,
2.
Joseph C. Grew.
803
CC
Enclosure
Clipping, JAPAN TIMkS, April 2, 1937.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Copy to Embassy, Moscow.

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.l, to despatch
No.2350, dated April 2, 1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Friday, April 2, 1937.
Political Parties
be en. their
vlew of the fact that sagpre or
Getting Ready For
concerning such ca
General Election
the Houne of Reprepeatatives.
8. The Governmént will be guidet
by the principle of fostering soukd
Govt. Instructs Prefectu-
development of constitutional politic
and awakening of the polkical par-
ral Authorities To Curb
ties in supervising the coming elen-
tion.
Illegal Campaigns
14,618,298.
The voters at the comins saneral
clection willnumber  
GOVERNORS MEET APRIL 5
cording to the fgures siven out b
the Home Ofce. This igure shews
an increase of 138,745 over the nuin-
14,618,298 Voters Eligible To
ber, of electors at the last general
election.
Vote, Increase Of 138,745
The holders of franchise classified
by prefectures are as followa:
Over Last Ballotting
Hokkaido
577,946
Aomori
187,752
Iwate
214.895
Both the Government and
Miyagi
288,024
political parties have started
Akita
211,829
activities for the general election
Yamagata
229,894
to be held on April 30.
Fukushima
212,894
The Government has already in-
Ibaragi
330,525
Tochigi
240,583
structed prefectural and other
Gumma
256,905
authorities to enforce election
Saitama
317:814
laws and to prevent illegal cam-
Chiba
842,192
92
paigns so that "unselfish" candi-
Tokyo
1,819,545
Kanagawa
376,087
dates will be elected.
Niigata
425,085
The Minseito and the Seiyukal, the
Toyama
176,373
two major parties. are reported to
Ishikawa
169,128
have decided to cooperate for
Fukui
142,676
strengthening their mutual positions
Yamanashi
135,851
with alms to bring about true con-
Nagano
371,381
stitutional administration. The Gov-
Gifu
268,515
einment having no support of the
Shizuoka
404,508
existing parties, is said to be aiming
Aichi
596,572
to organize a new party.
Miye
268,736
Not Many New Names
Shiga
160,927
As soon as the Diet diasolution
Kyoto
369,394
announced their intention were most-
not many new names have yet ap-
was announced, many candidates
ly former mombers of the House, and
formally announced their candidacy.
But in the past two days, those who
Hyogo
Nara
Osaka
Wakayama
Tottori
642,641
137,950
197,098
106,675
922,928
peared.
Shimane
106,033
As the first activity, the Govern-
Okayama
304,046
ment proposed the holding of the
Hiroshima
394,105
Prefectural Governors' Conference on
Yamaguchi
264,793
April b. At this conference, the
Tokushima
164,674
Governnient will fully instruct Gov-
Kagawa
166,732
ernors on the policy for controlling
Ehime
251,996
election campalgns. The following
Kochi
164,256
three potnts are believed will be
Fukuoka
566.493
enphasized at the coming confer-
Saga
139.273
ence:--
Nagasaki
256,727
1. The Government will make
Kumamoto
286,019
every effort to drive home to the
Oita
209,834
people the reasons for recommending
Miyazaki
168,776
to the Throne the dissolution of the
Kagoshima
314,527
Hcusc of Representatives.
Okinawa
136,59
2. Efforts will be made by the
Government to purify the forthcom-
Total
14,618.20
ing general electlon and to demand

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
8
August 25, 1937.
6
4
0
3
e
This despatch from Tokyo discusses pro-
ceedings of the special session of the Japanese
Diet which convened on July 23.
Discussions in the Diet have been dominated
by the state of affalrs in China which have con-
firmed the view that there exists no body of.
opinion opposed to the use of force by Japan in
China. Premier Konoe stated that Japan has been
compelled to make an important decision in re-
gard to the North China Incident, in view of
Japan's desire to preserve peace in Eastern Asia.
He declared that the present crisis is one of
those trials that will enable Japan to rise to
greater heights of prosperity and power.
In a speech before the Diet Foreign Minister
Hirota declared: "Japan-American relations have
been of late really good, being marked by ever-
growing amity and good will. I am glad to say
that the economic mission which visited the
United States some weeks ago has by its candid
exchange of views with various circles accom-
plished much toward establishing closer contact
between our two nations economically and other-
wise." He also stated: "It is gratifying to note
the growth of certain tendencies favorable to
restoration of the freedom of trade. I desire
to take this opportunity to declare the readiness
of the Japanese Government to participate
heartily in any international undertakin to con.
vert these tendenoies into reality."
The

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
The session gave favorable consideration
to a large number of appropriations, mostly for
military purposes in China. Direct expenditures
for the current North China Incident amount to
approximately one-half billion yen, according
to a statement by the Finance Minister. He
reported that during the first six months of
1937 imports were in excess of exports by
yen 641,000,000, which 1s double the adverse
excess of the same period of 1936.
In reply to an interpellation in t he House
of Peers the Premier defined international jus-
tice as a state of fair distribution of territory
and natural resources.
FE:WTTIVC

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.90)
76-1
EA
Bage 6-7
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
Page 5 s
Emclause R
OF THE
Eu
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Page s47 Endome 2.
AMERICAN EMBÀSSY
Tokyo, August 6, 1937
No. 2525
CCD
SUBJECT: SEVENTY-FIRST JAPANESE DIET, PRELIMINARY REPORT.
894.032/171
FIVE
早937A     23
SNONNWWO
AND NLHDS
JO NCISIAIG
2107
894.032
AUG1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Zil
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
On July 23, 1937, the seventy-first session of the
Japanese Diet convened. This is a session required by the
45th article of the Japanese constitution, which states that
when the House of Representatives has been ordered to dissolve,
members shall be caused by imperial order to be newly elected,
and
F/G

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.99)
76-2
-2-
and the new House shall be convoked within five months from
the day of dissolution. The previous House was dissolved
at the close of March by the Hayashi Cabinet, and the present
seventy-first session is the first convocation of the member-
ship ohosen by the general election of April.
Organizing activities occupied the first days. On
July 25 the Emperor formally opened the session. The Cabinet
had announoed that the session would be for two weeks, which
expires on August 8.
The seventy-first session thus far has uncovered no sur-
prises, and no surprises are expected in the remaining days.
The state of affairs in China has dominated the discussions,
which have confirmed the view that there exists no body of
opinion opposed to the prevailing belief that, failing a
modification of Chinese attitude, resort to force by Japan
is justified. Addresses of Government leaders, and the re-
action to such addresses, have served as an important inder
to Japanese policy. Secondly, the session has given favor-
able consideration to a number of large appropriations, dom-
inantly for the China incident. Thirdly, a number of Govern-
ment bills have been submitted, though not yet acted upon.
I. Addresses by Government leaders.
On July 27 Premier Konoe delivered his opening address to
the seventy-first session of the Diet and asked for support in
the national emergency; stated that the Government is pre-
pared to carry out reforms where reforms are needed, accom-
plishing them one by one; and explained that bills ready for
presentation to this Diet, following so closely on formation
of his Cabinet, must of necessity be few. He expressed regret
for the north China incident, said that the Japanese Govern-
ment has been compelled to make an important decision with re-
gard

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
76-3
- 3 -
gard to it, asserted that Japan's object is the preservation of
peace in eastern Asia, spoke on behalf of national defense
measures, a comprehensive national economic plan, and the con-
ception of Japan and Manchuria as a single unit, deferred the
question of administrative, parliamentary and educational re-
form, and announced that a bill is being submitted to provide
for a separate department of health and social affairs. He
said that the present crisis will lead to greater heights of
1/
power and prosperity. Text of the address is given in trans-
lation in enclosure.
In replying to an interpellation in the House of Peers on
July 28 the Premier defined social justice as a state under
which all persons can earn a living, and defined international
justice as a state of fair distribution of territory and nat-
ural resources.
Foreign Minister Hirota also delivered an address to the
Diet on July 27. The translation supplied by the Foreign Office
2/
is emboded in enclosure 2. In referring to relations with China
Mr. Hirota spoke of the necessity of harmony between Japan,
"Manchukuo", China, and the Soviet Union; in connection with
anti-Japanese sentiment in China mentioned past recalcitrance
of the Nanking Government in negotiations with regard to it;
alluded to Japan's policy of stopping the communist invasion
of the Orient; repeated that Japan desires to settle the north
China incident by local settlement and without aggravation;
pleaded for Chinese reconsideration and faithful execution of
the settlement of July ll; asserted that China has it in her
hands either to settle the issue or to make it more serious;
and declared that Japan is prepared to use all available means
which may be called for in the defense of Japanese nationals.
With regard to the Soviet Union the Foreign Minister again
favored

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.99)
76-4
一 4 -
favored a commission to determine the Manohurian frontier and
a commission on border incidents, and in reference to fishery
rights made the declaration that it is Japanese polioy never
to tolerate anything in substance destroying enterprises
sanctioned by treaty. In reference to Great Britain he spoke
highly of the Chichibu visit to London and of an agreement of
view between the two Governments concerning the advisability
of frank conversations to adjust relations (Mr. Hirota ignored
reports of British breaking off of such conversations). His
remarks about relations with the United States were in trans-
lation as follows: "Japanese-American relations have been of
late really good, being marked by ever-growing amity and good
will. I am glad to say that the economic mission which visited
the United States some weeks ago has by its candid exchange of
views with various circles. accomplished much toward establish-
ing closer contaot between our two nations economically and
otherwise."
The Foreign Minister concluded his address with a dis-
cussion of the necessity of expansion of Japan's export trade.
He pledged the Government to furtherance of such commercial
interests and to endeavors to insure freedom of trade and free
access to natural resources. He also said: "It is gratifying
to note the growth of certain tendencies favorable to re-
storation of the freedom of trade. I desire to take this
opportunity to declare the readiness of the Japanese Govern-
ment to participate heartily in any international under-
taking to convert these tendencies into reality."
The following day, July 28, in response to an interpel-
lation in the House of Representatives, Foreign Minister
Hirota made a further statement on the subject of the con-
versations with Great Britain, as follows:
Embassy's

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.99)
76-5
- 5 -
(Embassy's translation): "Our Foreign policy, as I stated
in my acdress yesterday, has as its background the maintenance
of peace and order in the Far East; and to effect such maintence
close association between Japan, Manchukuo and China is
necessary. It is, therefore, greatly to be regretted that the
present situation has developed. The fact is that before the
situation arose conversations between Japan and Great Britain
with regard to Far Eastern questions had made substantial pro-
gress. However, even though methods were devised for the ren-
dering of assistance to China by Japan and Great Britain, such
methods would be entirely inapplicable in the existing cir-
cumstances, and due to the deplorable situation which has
arisen the conversations have terminated for the time being."
To another interpellation in the House of Representatives
on July 28 Mr. Hirota said (Embassy's translation): "Replying
to a request by Dr. Akamatsu for expression of view with re-
gard to the future development of the situation in North China,
I may say that the policy of the Government thus far has been
to seek settlement locally and to prevent aggravation of the
situation. We have had in the past various agreements with
Sung Che Yuan and with other Chinese authorities, and if these
agreements had been carefully observed peace and order in North
China could have been maintained; but unfortunately the Chinese
did not carry out their obligations. And the latest reports
indicate that disorder has broken out in North China, and anxiety
is felt not only for Japanese nationals but for nationals of
Western countries as well. In the present state of mind of the
people of China, improvement in relations between Japan and China
is a matter of extreme difficulty. With reference to the state
of feeling in China, it may be stated that of course there has
been animosity toward Japan, and from that there is developing
a

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.99)
76-6
-6-
a feeling of contempt toward this country. We feel that some
method must be devised to urge reconsideration of such an attitude".
Finance Minister Kaya also addressed the Diet on July 27.
EA
He proposed a revaluation of specie reserves of the Bank of
Japan, stating nevertheless that the Government has no intention
of changing the present foreign exchange value of the yen, one
shilling and two pence (Embassy's telegram No. 215, July 21, 4 p.m.).
He reported that, for the Japanese Empire including colonies,
exports during the first six months of 1937 were ¥1,602,000,000
and imports ¥2,243,000,000 an adverse excess of 641,000,000
which is double the adverse excess of the same period of 1936.
He went on to refer to gold shipments and stated that for the
future the Government desires to limit the amount of annual gold
shipped within the limits of the annual domestic production of
gold. He mentioned the striking rise of commodity prices since
December l936 and said that the matter is being referred to the
price control commission. He enumerated certain appropriations
necessary for the north China incident (which are referred to
hereunder).
II. Appropriations.
The seventy-first Diet has taken partial action, ex-
pected shortly to be complete approval, of three supplementary
budgets (Embassy's despatch No. 2531, August 6, 1937).
Including the fourth supplementary budget submitted by the
Cabinet on August 6, passage of which without amendment is ex-
pected, direct expenditures for the current north China in-
cident are:
From

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
From reserve,
¥10,100,000
First appropriation, 96,800,000
Proposed
419,600,000
894.032
Total
￥526,500,000
This figure is of course subject to later correction.
There has been some Diet disoussion of the need of
171
further taxation to assist in raising the necessary funds,
but no taxation bill has yet passed.
III. Government bills.
Other than budget bills, legislation has not been en-
acted by the seventy-first session.
Government bills have, however, been presented to the
two houses for approval. Among them are bills for:
Revision of military secrets law.
Synthetic oil industry.
Farm debt readjustment.
Teikoku fuel company.
Iron manufacturing industry.
Revision of marine law.
Revision of jury system.
Pensions of judges and procurators.
Foreign trade guild.
Revision of industrial guild law.
Control of industry to implement
foreign exchange control (Embassy's despatch
No. 2529, August 6, 1937).
psetn 6. fre
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
Enclosure
1. Clipping, "Konoe Sets Forth Cabinet's Policies,
"JAPAN ADVERTISER, July 28, 1937.
2. Address of Foreign Minister Hirota to the
Japanese Diet, July 27, 1937
Copy to Embassy, Nanking.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Copy to Embassy, London.
Cory to Embassy, Moscow.
803
CC:f

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.99)
Ecclosure No
to despatch
No2525of aug 6, 1937 rom the
Embassy at Tokyej
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, July 28, 1937.
KONOE SETS FORTH
"In view of the current circumstances
at home and abroad, it is of the most
urgent necessity for us to perfect our
national defense and develop the eco-
CABINET'S POLICIES
nomic power of our country. Ae-
cordingly, as the basic means of carry-
ing out our national policy, the Gov-
ernment feels imperative need to de-
vise a comprehensive scheme aiming
Premier Tells Diet All Endea-
principally at expansion of the nation's
productive power, establishment of
vors Must Stem From Spirit
equilibrium in international accounts
of National Polity
and adjustment of the supply of and
demand for commodities. Investigations
are in progress with a view to formu-
lating a concrete program based on the
REGRETS CHINA OUTBREAK
conception of Japan and Manchukuo
as a single unit.
"Various other plans, including re-
Majority of Intended Reforms
form of the administrative machinery
and the parliamentary system, have
Left for Action at Next
been reserved for later consideration.
Regular Session
There are a few, of course, that have
already been worked out defnitely or
are under investigation. The Gov-
The Premier's administrative ad-
ernment has definitely decided, for in-
stance, to establish the Ministry of
dress in the Diet, as given by Domei.
Health and Social Affairs, and the
follows:
appropriation needed for it is being
"At this 71st session of the Imperial
submitted to the Diet for your ap-
Diet, I have the honor of stating the
proval.
"As regards education, I am con-
views of the Government.
vinced of the great importance of lay-
"At a time when our nation is con-
ing down anew foundations of our
fronted by serious problems and diffi-
educational system that will be in ac-
culties, I have been most unexpectedly
cord with the principle of our national
appointed Premier, and I am keenly
polity. But it is extremely difficult to
aware of the heavy burden I have
accomplish in a brief period reform
taken on my shoulders.
of our educational system. The Gov-
"I desire to elucidate, first of al!, the
erninent intends to appoint an edu-
principle which underlies the endeavors
cational council and to continue care-
of the Government to fulfill its im-
ful deliberations on the question.
mense responsibilities. This principle
"Japan is at present passing through
m
is to make all our policies stem from
one of those trials that 、will enable
a single source, namely, the spirit of
it to rise to greater heights of prosper-
the solemn and superb polity of our
ify and power. To achieve such epec-
Empire. Expression of this spirit means
tacular progress. or to execute the
that externally we should. in concert
various attendant reform measures, I
with other Powers. strive to establish
believe there is no other way than to
true peace firm y in the world in ac-
have all our people act as one with a
cordance with international justice and
firm resolve and the utmost persever-
to enhance more and more the prestige
ance. Internal friction or rivalry not
of our nation abroad and that intern-
only will frustrate that purpose but is
ally we should define clearly the re-
likely to bring national humiliation
lationship between Sovereign and sub-
upon us. At the time of forming the
jects and enable each of the people
Cabinet. I thus followed a policy cal-
to find his proper place in accordance
culated to promote as much as possible
with social justize, bringing abou!
the unity and co-operation of the na-
thereby a steady and healthy advance
tion.
of the national fortunes. Such, then.
Reforms Intended
i、 the principle the Government ex-
"In consonance with the spirit of
pe.! to observe in formula.ng and
national unity, the Government is pre-
carrying out its policies along various
pared to carry out reforms where
lines.
reforms are needed and to go the way
Trouble Regretted
that is 'new and ever new.' It is its
"It is a ource of profound regret
intention, moreover. to take up and
that. with the troublesome question
solve, one by one, those questions that
with the Soviet Union brought to a
hitherto have been considered diff-
peaceful settlement and relations with
cult of solution.
other Powers increasingly amicable,
"These are what the Government
there has occurred the present inci-
proposes to do. But at this session of
dent in China and that the Government
the Diet, which follows so closely the
has been compelled to make an im-
formation of the Cabinet, the bills to
portant decision. I am vvery grateful,
be submitted for your approval have
however. that the Government has been
been confined to some of those on
accorded the united support of the na-
which deliberations were not complet-
tion at this critical moment. In send-
ed in the past:melon and to those on
ing troops to North China, of course,
which immediafe action is required.
the Government has no other purpose,
"I hope that I have made clear to
as was explained in its recent state-
you the outline  the Government's
ment, than to preserve the peace of
views. Your collamoration is essential
East Asia. I cannot but hope most
in the task of aurmounting the pre-
ferven'ly that recensideration and self-
discipline on the part of the Govern-
ment and people of China will make
to you for generous support and co-
speedily possible a fundamental ad-
operation."
justment of Sino-Japanese relations.

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.98)
.No 2
to respatch
No25250:Cng 6,1937 irom th
Embassy nt Tay
Copy by the American Embassy, Tokyo, of a release in English
1ssued July 28, 1937, by the press section of the Japanese
Foreign Orfice.
CC:f
Address of Mr. Koki Hirota, Minister
for Foreign Affairs, at the Seventy-
first (Extraordinary) Session of the
Diet, on July 27, 1937.
I am happy to have this opportunity today of stating my
views concerning the foreign relations of Japan.
It is not necessary for me to expatiate afresh on our
national policy, which aims at securing Japan's position as
a stabilizing force in East Asia, and contributing toward the
establishment of true peace throughout the world. I believe
that in order to carry out this policy we should, first of all,
consider the relations between Japan, Manchoukuo, China, and
the Soviet Union.
In surveying the conditions of present day China, our
Government can not but profoundly regret to note that anti-
Japanese sentiments and movements have been encouraged and
systematically exploited for the purpose of unifying public
opinion and arousing nationalistic consciousness, and that
untoward incidents evidently resulting therefrom are taking
place in various quarters in China. At the time of the
Chengtu Incident Iast year, the Japanese Government took
occasion to ask the Chinese to rectify their attitude toward
Japan, which constituted the fundamental obstacle to friendly
intercourse between Japan and China, and to invite the Nanking
Government to demonstrate their sincerity regarding the concrete
questions bound up with the amelioration of the relations
between the two countries. Unfortunately, as you know, the
negotiations came to an impasse, owing to Chinese recalcitrance.
Since then, Sino-Japanese relations have been, frankly speaking,
far

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
far from satisfactory. I need not repeat here that Japanese
policy in East Asia is directed solely toward the realization
of the stability of that region through conciliation and co-
operation between Japan, Manchoukuo and China, and by stopping
the Communist invasion of the Orient. The Japanese Government
therefore earnestly hope that China will as soon as possible
come to have a full understanding and appreciation of our
basic policy.
Today in China not only is such understanding or
appreciation absent, but anti-Japanese sentiments have been
still more intensified, of which the Lukouchiao Incident of
the 7th of this month, was only the logical consequence. As
regards the present incident, the Japanese Government have
maintained, as announced in their official statement of July
llth, a policy of seeking a settlement on the spot and non-
ageravation of the situation. Accordingly, the Government
have been doing thoir best to effect a peaceful local solution.
and at the same time to induce the Nanking Government to t ake
proper steps for an early settlement of the question. It is
my earnest hope that prompt reconsideration on the part of
the Chinese authorities will lead to a faithful execution of
the terms of settlement arrived at on the night of July llth.
The governments of the Powers have been informed in detail
through our diplomatic representatives of this policy of the
Japanese Government, and I believe they understand fully
Japan's attitude of patience and self-restraint. On the other
the
hand, there is no knowing what will be possible repercus-
sions among the Chinese masses, dependent as this is upon
what stand the Nanking Government may take. There exists,
it must be admitted, the danger of an untoward outbreak at
any

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
any moment. We have more than once called the attention of
both the Chinese central government and the local authorities
to the necessity of control of anti-Japanese activities and
proteotion of our nationals in China. In order to insure the
safety, of our fellow-countrymen the Japanese Government are
prepared to use all available means which may be called for
by the development of the situation. Thus, in a word, China
holds the key of the settlement of the present incident, as
it depends entirely upon what course she may choose to follow.
I confidently hope that the Nanking Government will adopt
such effective and appropriate measures as will accord with
our desire and bring about an early and amicable settlement.
Eu
The Government are giving careful consideration to our
relations with the Soviet Union. Incidents have continued
to occur along the ManchoukuoSoviet frontier. The most
serious case was the recent illicit invasion and occupation
of Manchoukuo islands in the Amur, which led to an armed clash
of the Japanese-Manchoukuo forces with the Soviet intruders.
The situation threatened for a time to develop into one of
ortreme gravity. However, the affair ended, as you know, in
a peaceful settlement, the Soviet Government agreeing to
restore the stetus quo ante in that region. The Japanese
Government are deeply concerned over the state of things on
the Manchoukuo-Soviet frontier, which gives rise to frequent
friction. What is needed first of all is to take practical
steps to prevent these border disputes. For that purpose,
we should lose no time in setting up those two commissions
for the demarkation of the border line and the settlement of
disputes, which for some years past have been under con-
sideration, and also devise other means of removing the tension
all along the frontier. I cannot but urge most strongly upon
the Soviet Government to co-operate freely and unreservedly
with

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.98)
EU
- 4 -
with us in this task for the sake of the peace of East Asia.
Again, it is a matter of no small concern for the Govern-
ment whether or not our nationals engaged in fishery in the
northern waters and those having oil and coal concessions in
North Saghalien are to be accorded full guarantees for the
legitimate operation of their enterprises. It is our policy
never to tolerate the creation of any such circumstances as
will in substance destroy those enterprises sanctioned, as
they are, by treaty. In short, there remains between Japan
and the Soviet Union a number of issues stillpending, for
the solution of which the Government will do their utmost.
As for our relations with Great Britain, I am deeply
moved when I say that a short while ago on behalf of His
Majesty the Emperor, His Imperial Highness Prince Chichibu,
accompanied by Princess Chichibu, attended the Coronation
ceremonies of the King and Queen of England, and by their
mission they have enchanced the traditional friendship that
binds our two nations. It has always been the consistent
policy of the Government to promote Anglo-Japanese friend-
ship, and more recently the two governments have come to an
agreement of views regarding the advisability of ontering
into frank conversations with the object of adjusting the
relations of the two countries. We hope to bring about an
early attainment of that aim.
Japanese-American relations have been of late really
good, being marked by evergrowing amity and good will. I am
glad to say that the Econonic Mission which visited the United
States some weeks ago, have by their candid exchange of
views with various circles accomplished much toward establish-
ing closer contact between our two nations economically and
otherwise.
Last

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
Last year this country concluded the Anti-Comintern
Agreement with Germany. The Government are striving for an
effective application of the said agreement, and at the same
time for the furtherance of friendly and intimate relations
between Japan and Germany.
Now to turn to our trade relations with other countries.
Obviously the expansion of our xport trade constitutes
not only an indispensable condition of our national existence,
but one of the most important means of balancing our inter-
national accounts under the present economic circumstances of
the country. But as a matter of fact, the foreign Powers, for
economic, financial, or other reasons, still continue to main-
tain commercial barriers of various kinds against Japanese
goods. The Government are working for a smooth development
of our export trade by concluding suoh individual agreements
with the governments of those countries as may be best suited
to their respective circumstances, or by arranging for private
agreements to be arrived at between our business interests
and those of other countries. I am glad to say that since
last spring our trade negotiations with India, Burma, the
Netherlands East Indies, and Turkey, have all been brought to
a successful conclusion. The Government will strive more
energetically than ever for the maintenance and furtherance
of Japan's commercial interests, and at the same time make
all possible endeavours to insure free access to raw material
and natural resources, and to promote the freedom of inter-
national trade. It is gratifying to note the growth of centain
tendencies favourable to the restoration of the freedom of
trade. I desire to take this opportunity to declar the
readiness of the Japanese Governnent to participate heartily
in any international undertaking to convert these tendencies
into a reality.
As

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.95)
一 6 -
As may be seen from what I have stated above, Japan's
foreign relations at present are fraught with problems of
great difficulty. For an effective execution of our foreign
policy at this time a true national unity is required - a
unity which is based upon a full comprehension of the inter-
national situation. And I appeal to you for support and
co-operation.

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./116
Despatch #2524
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grow
) DATED August 5.1937.
894.032/172
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Japanese Diot.
Special-, which was convened July 23, was mostly concerned with
the North Chine situation.
hc

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.98)
(b) The Diet.
Until the close of the month the proceedings of the special Diet :
sic, which was convened on July 23, were concerned largely with
the North China situation.* The Government's supplementary budgets
for financing Japanese military operations in China were quickly
passed by both Houses.**
In an address delivered before the Diet on July 27 Premier
Konoe stated that in sending troops to North China the Japanese
Government had no other purpose than to "preserve the peace of
East Asia" and that he hoped most fervently that reconsideration
and self-discipline on the part of the Government and people of
Chine would make speedily possible a fundamental adjustment of
Sino-Japanese relations. Subsequently, in reply to an interpellation,
the Premier said that what Jepan wanted of China was not territory
but cooperation.
Mr. Hirota, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, delivered an
address to the Diet in which he said that he believed that foreign
governments understood fully Japan's attitude of "patience and self-
restraint" with regard to North China. General Sugiyama, the War
Minister, told the Diet that the origin of the present North China
Jificulties was the general anti-Japanese movement in China which
"as an outcome of the Nanking Government's thorough anti-Japanese
rolicy and of China's over-estimation of its national strength.
On July 28 Premier Konoe stated in reply to an interpellation
that in his oninion it was premature to talk at the present time of
erthrowing the National Government since there were many persons
i1 that Government who understood Japan, including General Chiang
Kai-shek.
Enbassy's despatch No. 2525, August 6, 1937.
★.F
Sec Section V, GOVERNMENT FINANCE, of the present report.

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/173
793.94/9898
Tel#-340, Noon
SEE
FOR
Japan
Sept 3, 1937
FROM
DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
Sino-Japanese conflict: Japan's policy.
REGARDING:
Foreign Minister Kokd Hirota's address to be delivered tomorrow
at seventy-second seasion of the Diet: Text of-, given. Ad-
dresses of the Premier and Finance Minister not yet available.
7
FRG.

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.94)
9
GRAY
MBO
Tokyo
Dated SEptember 3, 1937
Rec'd. 11:15am. 4th.
SEcrEtary of State,
Washington.
4.
TRIPLE FRIORITY. 34O, SEntEmbEr 3, noon.
94.
DEpartmEnts 188,/SEptEmbEr 3, 1 p.m.
The orEign OfficE has sum lied the English tExt
given bEl of thE Foreign Tininter's acirEss tomorrow
to thE Dist. it is for relEast SErtember 5, 11 a.m.
Tokyo ti E. As the full purport of the policy (?)
can ot :E apprcclated without thE narretive porti the
complEtE text is transmitted. Adarrsses of tht TremiEr
and FinancE Minister arE not yet available.
"AddrEss of Mr. Koki Hirota, 'inister for ForEign
Affairf,  thE sEventy-sEcond SEssion of thE DiEt, SEp-
tembrr 5, 1937.
As  had occasion a short wulE ago at the sEventy-
firat ceeu n ef the rict t socak on Japan's forem re-
latn cEneral,  shall ns myself today to a
rev tr  tht developments siret hen of the China affair.
Evir sincE thE bErinnir f thE PEsEnt affair, thE
Japners overnment, in pureuerE of their policy of loee
sett  r  and non-agpravation, have exerted Every effort
to Effeet

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.97)
MBo 2- No. 340, SEptembEr 3, from Tokyo
9
to EffEct a spEEdy solution. ThE Nanking Government, whosE
prompt rEconsideration was invitEd, failed to manifEst a
grain of sincerity, but concentrated their armies in
North China to challengE Japan, whilε in thE YangtzE VallEy
and ElsEwherE in South and CEntral China thEy EmbarkEd
upon an anti-JapanesE campaign of the most vicious kind,
which not only prevented our nationals in that rEgion
from Engaging in their pEaceful pursuit, but also jEopar-
dizEd thEir very ExistencE. In thEsE circumstancEs, thE
JapanesE Gover ument still dEsiring to avoid thE distur-
bancE of pEacE ns far as possiblE, orderEd thE Evacuation
of all JaoanEsE rEsidents in Hankow and othEr noints along
thE YangtzE River. Shortly efter that, on August 9 at
Shanghai, SubjiEutenant Oyama nd staman Saito of thE
landing party wErE murdErEd at thE hands of thE ChinEsE
PeacE frEservation Corps. EvEn thEn, Japan, adhering to
a pEacEf 1 coursE, sought to sEttlE thE affair through thE
withdravel of thE PeacE PrEsErvation Corps and thE rEmoval
of all military works that had hEEn ErEcted in violation
of thE 1932 trucE agreenEnt. China rEfusEd to comply with
our dEmands under onE prEtext or another, and procEEdEd,
instead, to incrEasE her troops and multiply hEr military
works in thE prohibited zonε, and finally launched an un-
warranted attack upon the Japantst. Thereupon, as a matter
of duty our GovErnment dEspatchEd a small naval rEenforcE-
ment

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.97)
MBo 3 - No. 34o, SEptEmbEr 3, from Tokyo
ment to Shanghai as an Emergency mEasurE to insurE the pro-
tection of our nationals in that city.
In viEw of thEsE disquiεting dEvElopments in Shanghai
thE Ambassadors at Nanking of thE fivE power Great Brit-
ain, AmErica, FrancE, GErmany, and Italy - sEnt a joint
rEquEst on August 1l both to Japan and China that thE two
countriEs do all in their power to carry out Effectively
a plan to ExcludE Shanghai from thE (*) of any possiblE
hostilitiEs so ns to safEguard thE livEs and propErty of
foreigners therein. Our Government renlied through Am-
bassador KawagoE to thE Effect that whilE Japan was most
solicitously concernEd over thE safEty of thE livEs of all
forEigners as wEll as of thE JapanEsE in Shanghai, China
should, as thE first prerEquisitt, withiraw outsidE strik-
ing distancE her rEgular troops and thE PeacE PresErvation
Corps that wErE advancing on thE SEttlEmEnt and mEnacing
thE JapiEsE, and rEmovE thE mil itary works in thE vi-
cinity of thE intErnational sEttlEmEnt, and that Janan
would bE prepared to restorE her forcEs to their original
positions provided China agrEEd to takE thE abovE steps.
ThE Amoassador was also instructed to rEquest thE powers
concerned to Exert thE ir influEncE toward inducing China
to ExEcutE thosE urgent and appropriatE measures, which,
howEver, WEr: flatly rEjEctEd by China. On August 13 thE
Consuls

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.97)
MBo
o4- No. 340, SEptEmbEr 3, from Tokyo.
GenEral at Shanghai of Great Britain, America and FrancE
submitted a certain concretE plan, proposing that Japan
and China Enter into dirEct nEgotiations for thE purposE
of averting thE impEnding crisis. ThE text of thE Pro-
posal was rEcEivEd in Tokyo at midnight, August 13. But
ir. thE afternoon of that vEry day, thE ChinEsE armies,
that had bEen pouring into thE Shanghai area, took thE
offEnsivE, and on thE fourtEenth thEir war planEs drop-
pEd bombs not only on the hEadquarters of our landing
party, our warship and our ConsulatE GEneral, but also
all over thE International SEttlemEnt. No longEr could
wE do anything but abandon all hopEs for pEacEful sEttlE-
mEnt and fight for thE protection of our thirty thousand
nationals in Shanghai. I rEgret to say that thE EarnEst
Efforts of thE powErs concerned wErE thus nullified by
Chinese outrages.
Shanrhai, having bEen converted into a theatrE of
hostilitiEs, gravE concern was naturally shown by the
powers who hnd vast amounts of capital invEsted and
largE numnErs of thEir nationals rEsiding in thE city.
Great Britain notifiEd both Japan and China under datE of
August 18, that if thE govErnmEnts of thE two countriEs
agreed to withdraw their forces rutually and to entrust
to forEign aut.oritiEs thE protection of JapanesE sub-
jEcts

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.96)
MBo
5- No. 340, SEptember 3, from Tokyo.
jEcts rEsiding in thE IntErnational SEttlEment and on
thE abovE mEntioned Extra SEttlement roads, thE British
GovErnment werE prepared to undErtakE thE rEsponsibility
providEd that other powers would cooperatE. NExt day -
on thE 19th - wE wErE advisEd by thE French GovErnment
of thEir readinEss to support thE British proposal. ThE
American GovErnment also had previously ExprEssed their
hopE for thE suspEnsion of hostilities in thE Shanghai
area. Japan, having as grEat interEsts in Shanghai as
thEsE powErs, is Equally solicitous for thE pEacE of thE
city. But as has been stated ahovE, thE actions taken by
the ChinecE in and around Shanghai arE plainly in violation
of thE trucE agreEment of 1932, in that thEy illEgitimatE-
1y movEd thEir rEgular troops into thE zonE prEscribEd by
that a reEment, and incrEasEd  oth thE nuaber and armamEnta
of thE PE cE PrEsErvation Corps, and in that, rElying upon
their nucrical supcriority, tEy challenged thE landin
party and civilian population of cur country. Therefore,
in thtir rEply to the British proposal our GovErnment Ex-
plainrd in dEtail Japan's succEsuivE Efforts toward a
pEacEful solution as wEll as thE truth rEgarding thE law-
lEss ChinEsE' attacks, and stated that thE hostilitiEs at
Shanghai could not bE brought to an End savE through thE
withdrawal of thE ChinEsE rE ular troops from thE prohibitEd
zonE, and of thE PEacE PrEsErvation Corps from thE front
linEs

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.96)
MBo
6-
No. 340, SEptEmbEr 3, from Tokyo
linEs. At thE samE timE, our sincErE hopE was ExprEssEd
that GrEat Britain as onE of thE partiEs to thE trucE
agreEment would usE her good offices to bring about thE
withdrawal of thE ChinEsE troops outsidE thE prEscribEd
zonE. Similar rEpliEs wErE sEnt to Franos and AmErica.
As for North China, in wilful disrEgard of thE various
plEdgEs and agrEEments, ChinEsE Central armiEs wErE movEd
northward to indulgE in a sEries of provocativE actions,
and largE forcEs bEgan to pour into thE provincE of Chahar.
Our GovErnment, therEforE, havE had to takE dEtErminEd stEpe
to mEet thE situation.
Thus hostilities havE now sprEad from North to CEntr:.
China, and Japan finds hErsElf tngagEd in a major conflict
with China on ExtEndEd fiElds. I am dEEply painEd to say
that somE 50,000 JapanEsE rEsidEnts in various parts of
China havE bEEn forcEd to EvacuatE, leaving bEhind them
their huE invEstments, thEir businEss intErEsts acquirEd
through y=ars of arduous toil, and other rights and
interEsts, whilE not a fEw of thEst havE bEen made
victims of hostilitiEs.
It is

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.97)
MM 340, SEptembEr 3 from Tokyo.
-7-
It is also to bE rEgrEtted that nationals of third
countries in China arE bEing subjected to similar trials
and tribulations. All this is duE to no other causE than
that thE Nanking Government and also thE local militarist
regimes in China havE for many years past dEliberatEly
undErtaken to incitE public opinion against Japan as a
mEans of strengthening their own political powers, and in
collusion with Communist εlements they havE still further
impairEd Sino-JapanEsE rElations. Now our loyal end
valiant soldi:rs, with the united support of the nation
behind them, arE Engaged in strenuous campaigns night and
day amid indEseribablE hardshins and privations. TE
cannot but bE moved to hear of thEir hEroic sacrifices
as wEll as their brilliant achievEments.
It is hardly necEssary to say that thE basic policy
of thE JapanEsE GovErnment aims at thE stabilization of
East Asin through conciliation and cooperation bEtwEen
Japan, Manchukuo and China for their common prospErity
and wEll bEing. SincE China, ignoring our truE motivE,
has mobilized her vast armies against us, wE can do no
other than counter it by forcE of arms. ThE urgent nEed
at this momEnt is that wE takE a rEsolutE attitudE and
compEl China to mEnd her ways. Japan has no other objec-
tivE than to sEE a happy and tranquil North China,
and all

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.97)
M3O
8- No. 340, SEptembEr 3, from Tokyo.
and all China frEed from thE danger of a rEcurrencE of
such calamitous hostilitiEs as thE prEsent, and Sino-
JapanEsE rElations so adjusted as will EnablE us to put
into practicE our abovE mEntionEd policy. LEt us hopE
that thE statEsmen of China will bE brought to takE a
broad viEw of East Asia; that thEy will spEEdily rEalizE
their mistakes; and that, turning over a nEw leaf, they
will act in unison with the hih ai: and aspirations of
Japan!"
GREW
IHPD

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.98)
894.037
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/174
Tel#343, Noon
793.94/9914
FOR
SEE
Sept 5, 1937
FROM
Japan
Grew
DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
Sino-Japanese situation: Japan's policy.
REGARDING:
Address of Prime Minister to seventy-second session of the
Diet.
π
FRG.

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
PA/H
MP
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated September 5, 1937
Rec'd 2:16 a.m.
SEcretary of State,
Washington.
RUSH
343, SEptember 5, noon.
note
Department's 188, SEptember 3, 1 p.m.
894.032
OnE. PrimE Minister's address beforE the Diet opens
with referencE to Emperor's speech from thE thronE and
continues as follows:
"SincE the outbreak of the affair in North China
on JunE 7th thE fundamental policy of thE JapanEsE
Government toward China has bEen sEttled simply and
purEly to sEek the reconsideration of thE ChinesE Govern-
ment and thE abandonment of its erroneous anti-JapanEsE
policies with the view of making a basic readjustment in
relations bEtween Japan and China. This policy as never
undergone a changE; Even today it rEmains thE same. The
JapanesE Government has endeavored to save the situation
by prevenging aggravation of the incident and by limiting
its scopE. This has been repeatedly Enunciated; I trust
that it is fully understood by you gentlemen.
The ChinesE however not only fail to understand the
truE motives of thE JapanesE Government but havE
increasingly

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.96)
MP
2-/343 from Tokyo, Sept. 5, noon.
incrEasingly aroused a spirit of contempt and havE offered
rEsistancE toward Japan, taking advantagE of the patience
of our government. T hus by the outourst of uncontrolled
national sentiment thE situation ms fast been aggravated
sprcading in scopE to CEntral and South China. And now
our government which has been patient to the utmost has
acnovledged the impossibility of sEttling thE incident
passively and locelly and has bEen forced to deal a firm
and decisivE lov egainst thE ChinesE Government in an
activE and comprehensive manner.
In point of fact for onE country to adopt is its
national policy the antagonizing of and thE showing of
contempt for som: particular country and to malte these the
underlying principlE of na ti onal Education by implanting
vuch idEas in the minds of the young is unprecedented in
the history of the world. Thus when wE consider the
outcome o cuch policies on thE pert of ChinesE ve feel
grave coneErn not only for thc future of Sino-Japancse
relations but for the peacE of the Orient and consecuently
for thE peace of the Entirt "orld.
The JanancsE Governnent
therefore has repratedly requerted the Chinese Governnent
to reconsider and to changE its attitude but all in vain.
T s fau lure of tht Chinest Govermment has finally caused
the present affeir. (End section one).
JTS
GREW

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.97)
VM
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated
SEptEmbEr,1937
Recid
2:59 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washington.
RUSH
343, SEpt Ember 5, Noon (SEction two).
WE firmly bEliEvE that it is in accordancE with
thE right of and as well as with thE causE of right-
EousnEss and humanity that our country had detErmined
to givE a decisivE blow to such a country, so that it
may reflect upon the Errorsof its ways. For thE peoples
of East Asia, therE can bE no happinEss without a just
pEacE in this part of thE world. ThE ChinEsE pEoplE
t:EmsElvEs by no means form thE objEctivE of our
actions, which objectivE is dirEcted against the
ChinesE Government and its army who arE carrying out
such Erroneous, anti-foreign policies. If, therefore,
the ChinEsE Government truly and fully rEExamines its
attitudE and in real sincerity makes Endeavors for the
Establishment of pEacE and for the devElopments of
culture in the Orient in collaboration with our country,
our Enpire intends to press no further.
At thE pregent moment, however, thE sole measure
for

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.93)
VM -2- 343, SEptembEr 5, Noon from Tokyo
for thE JapanesE EmpirE to adopt is to administer a
thorough going blow to the ChinesE army so that it may
lost completely its will to fight. And if, at thE samE
timE, China fails to rEalizE its mistakE and pErsists in
its stubborn resistancE our empirE is fully prepared for
protracted hostilities until wE accomplish our great
mission of Establishing pEacE in thE Orient, wE must
facE many sErious difficulties, and, in order to over-
come the, wE must proceed steadily with our rask,
adherEin: to thE spirit of pareEverance and fortitudE
in onE united body".
Two. The address closcs with reference bo loyalty
of armed forces and warning  ainst intoxication our
vietories, and with request  or approval of budeetary
and lEgiclativE mEasures. (End of messagE).
(REW
i1S

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.98)
894.032
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.032/175
SEE
793.94/9916
FOR.
Tel#347,5pm
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATEDSept.5..1937.
TO
NAME
1-1127
Sino-Japanese situation: Japan's policy.
REGARDING:
Addresses of the Ministers of War and of the Navy to the
seventy-second session of the Diet.
FRG.

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
PA/H
GRAY
MiP
TOKYO
Dated September 5, 1937
Rec'd 6:18 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
ru t
TRIPLE PRIORITY
894.032
347, SEptember 5, 5 pom.
793.94112
DEpartment's 188, SEptember 3, 1 p.m.
ThE addreeses of both thE Ministers of War and of
the Navy consisted almost Entirely of narrative of naval
and ilitary operations. The former concluded his address
as follows: "The Situation in all its phases has become
9916
aggravated, and no relaxation of caution with regard to
futre developments is warranted. However, the army is
dEtElmined to overcomE whatever difficulties may arisE
hErEefter, to punish the lawless ChinesE army, and to
attain our objectives as quickly as possible. Even though
the ChinesE may plan to draw out the hostilities for an
Extended pEriod of timE, it is our intention to deal with
the ChinesE thoroughily and completely, Eliminate ChinesE
hostility toward Japan and to destroy their fighting spirit.
We arE firmly rEsolved not to let up until our purmosE has
been achieved".
The

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.98)
MP
2-#347 From Tokyo SEpt. 5, 5 p.m.
ThE Navy Minister's address contained a brief
declaration that therE would bE no interfErencE with the
pEaceful commercE of third countries with China.
GREW
JLS
