894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., June 23, 1949 - December 29, 1949 (File 1833), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.00-1833-1   Pages: 396   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-30/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20June%2023%2C%201949%20-%20December%2029%2C%201949%201833-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.73)
M. Bichsp
TOP AGGREE
ARAODASDUE
June 23, 1949.
心
Two major courses of actin are open to this Government
at present in conmectien vit? tne uestion of a Japanese
peace se at. e mey  ciue to wore ror the orenlce of
maltipartite ne otiations in me near ruture for che conelu
slon cr a setrlement or we suy ceclee  defer for the preo
ent all efforts to coen suon ceautlat ons. in in lementing
these tro air sl sv,  pueoer of receeures snd com
l  ry  
he ceclslen methe or vot to vore for the oventns of
multijertite re otaotios reete salnly pn t vei ndeg of
certuin voritier e ctoro rominent
w  the  e u
   s  reio
t    
u    
1int.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.90)
TOP BRGRKT
-2-
light, we oan withstand pressure for an early peaee sottle-
msnt which may develop--for different reasons--en the part
of friendly FEC Powers, Japan, and the Usan.
In consicerin the prospects for suceessful multipartite
negotiations it hes to be rememvered that some Powers, while
friuraly to the S, do not s are American objeetives coneerm-
ine Japan's ruture. conlident thet the Us will under any
concitions assume responsibility for the security of the
Pacific snu for maintaining at lunst minimum subsistenee con-
ditions in Japan, they o not feel the same urgency in get-
ting Japan on its feet scsnomically or in bringind Jupan beok
into the Temily of nations.
as far us the a tituce of the
tusa is concerned, a barrier of large anc perhaps insurmount-
aule vimensions will exist in connection with as urlng our
stratogic neeus with respect to Japan anu Japan's security
aguinst external rln
she entent cr  is barrier can
be etermines only efter tre full meunims ono intent of the
o's estlet es or cur strateeic neaus with respect to Japan
nave been clarilied.
we way be able to werk t one or ur cifferences of
viees wltn friealy  roverecemeul subaission
of roposala to the o or ro a campian of conversion
baseo upon a cas ln exelunatios of Japen's : lace in future
plonning tor the Paci:ie.
e have aae a start an tois
unuertaking

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.93)
-3
undertaking as, fer example, im connectiem with the espess-
tien te the Pkc Povers of our pesitien em reparatioms.
At the same time it is to be resogmises thss e leme sme
timmed occupation creates preblems of its own. with the pas-
sage of time an occupation tands to lose in popularity and im
effectiveness. Serious problems--ssonomie and politieal--are
anead, for which no selution generelly popular in Japan is
likely to be available and ulame wil. almost inevitably 
trunsferred to the occupation autnorities. Jepanese disap-
pointment over the celey in the sstilerent und secompanyims
payeholcgieel letcown will have to be reckoned sith. the
Japenese will cotinue to be dependent in larae measure 
tais Government for making a place for Japan in internatiemel
trade ahannels. inese isadvantages mi ht be offset, if not
entirely overcome, by a urustic reorga.ization of the oceupe-
tion involving & transier of increasing responsibility in
economie uic politicul mutters to Japa..ese uuthorities, the
reanction or sCat lean uerters to a small staff with advisory
and supervisory functions, anc tro recuction of oceupation
forees turourh witruraxai or sll uut token forces frca the
aain i:lancs to other bases, pousicly on nearly islands. By
suen ceans, the japt ese oulc coze to :eel more directly
responsible for *orkine out tceir o future.
The

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.94)
The ether Füc Powers may, however, alse beesme pestive
and arge a pease settlenent in the hope of bringins a meesare
of certainty to the situs tien in the Serth Pacifie and im the
belief that their bargaining strength would be greater is the
give-and-take of a ceneral conferenes than through piesemeal
adjustments worked out in the existing framework of the seem-
pation. If the ss, believos that we are reluetant to move
toward a settlecent it may, for its part, initiate propesals
to thst end as a means of eabarrassin: us. Pressure to sen-
elude a settlement may thsrefore come fros several direetiens
and  rove Inereasingly cifliclt to ithstand.
An saded complication is presented by China's tenuous
ana eyuivocal position. & Communist national sovermment is
likely to emerge whil* tre established jational Government
still continues, ponsibly civlued. controversy as to what
government constitutes "Cnina" might rosult, with the UssR
atteuptiny to rorce premature recognition of a Comnunist gov-
ernment by t is weans. If we vucie to carry on multipartite
negotintions wit the  atlonal Govern ent as one or the par-
tisipants, there would be te prospect that even if a sottle-
mont were reaohed the wucceeding comxunist government might
decline to so bound tereby. If, nowever, se postpone nogo-
tiations until a Communist govornment nas become established,
wo

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.92)
-5-
we will be faced with the prospest of wegetisting with a mese
tile China whieh would be likely te align its peliey wisn
that of uus.
A peaee settlement reashod through multipartite megetis-
tions is clearly to be desirec for many reesons if a treaty
givin: satisfsction to our minimum reyuirements with respest
to Jepan can be obtained. If trere is e reasonable prespeet
of suoh e result, it is velieved tnat we should prees for the
Opening of negetixtions. If, hosever, reasonable prospeet of
our being abls to obtain sucn * treaty sous not exist, thon
we snould consider wether our interests woula be better
served by continuing with the occupation drastically reorgan-
ized or by adopting procedures wi ich might approximate a set-
tloment vut woula no: involve wultipartite nogotiatioms. we
eannot, of course, ullcer any circumstanees expect to obtain
everything we woulu like. Accoruingly, we should beee our
position on our minimum requirements.
In July 1947 we proposeu tho caliing of an eleven-Power
conferance w lcl: vu lu operate by a two-thirus vote, without
* veto. Under condilions as tiey now exist, it seums probe-
ble that we woul. no. wish tc retain tne veto power. Deei-
sion on t is point nsturally afiects tc .ole .uestion of
proeedures.
10LS5CAES

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.91)
6
presedares. Fer the purpeses ef this memeranaum it hes bemn
assumed thet we would wish to retain the rete.
It is to be neted trat the conclusion of e pemse seeety
is not ebaolutely esssntlal to the termination of a state of
wur. Peace may be restored by a variety of procedures. Is
is also to be noted t at tocrnicelly the conclusion of a sen-
eral peace settlecent would not necessarily be ineompatible
with the continuance of an occuyation.
From a review of techni ues followeo or attempted in the
case or resnt suropeell peece se clements, it appeurs thet
tre process of nogotiscint a set:lument has involved several
stagess the preperstion of a dral't, the disoussion of the
drait, the crawine up of t e finel text, the signature of the
text, and the subg: sion of the text to non-si natories for
achorence. The iirst ste, in. tis procouure--the preparetion
of the initial draft--rus provec io be oy mll odds tre most
importart. For tuat rouson, rererences in t is memorandum to
neuotictions :or a peace se:: le.ent relate, except wlere oth-
orwise inuicated, to noccliatio.s ror the preparation of the
initisl uraft.
Inere are inuioated bolow te more important procedures
which mint be followeu in lpiece: tin, the two main courses
of action aescribed above, =it: a orlef indication of the
advantages
1420

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.84)
-7-
advantages and disadvantages likely to result in saah sess.
These procedures ares
(1) Negotiations in the CFm
(2) Hegotintions among the F C Powers
(3) legotintions smong the F c Powors without the Uasn
(and possibly China)
(4) deference to the U
() Parullel biluteral treaties
(6) Contingance of the occugstion, drestically reorgan-
iaod, witnout a goneral seltlement but with a vlew
to crouting a we fectg situntion wlcn might be
converted by a trecty into a ge jure situution
wenever o, ortunity of fered
(7) Joint rosolulion of the congress, terminatins the
wer and cefarris set: lesent o ain sestions until
a ceneral treaty
a prief sum ury u e more important cevelopcents bear
ing on the arer tin  aeuce seslement :or sapar ls also
gver. for uecoss.
ehict sar v2on 1ne retin l  Peace
dettlement  or Japeo
setabllebment o LouclLoce niters
at the lrotsos coulere cu, duly-au ust l, agreeent
wes reaeee on tne estallshnent or  councir of Foreign Minis-
ters, composeu or te te ri  al  evere to contlnee "the
necessary proparatory or tor Lhe  eue t loments" snd to
tare up ofrer matters oy ser vrest or e participetins
overeents.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.93)
8
Governments. It was further agresd thst in prepasing pesee
tresties with Italy, Hamania, Bulgaris, Hungary,ané Fimland
the Couneil would be composed of the membere represemtimg
those statss wnich were signatories to the terms of swrreneer
imposed upon the enomy state coneerned. The preparatiem of
these tresties and the proposing of settlements of territe-
rial questions outstanding on the termination of the war im
burope was described as the "incediate important task" of the
Council. It was also stated tns: the Council should bo util-
iseo for the preparstion of a peace set:lement for dermany.
No specific mer tion of Ja, an is containec in the communiqué
of the Confererce.
krarlingof_oetellito.Xre-ties
Subseyuently at Soscow the procedure for drawing up the
matellite tres ies was rurther uerined. Provision was made,
for example, that aiter the pro;ere ion of the drafts hed
been completed, the counci! or rorei n sinisters would con-
voke a conferonce to consicer the treatics of pemce which
wouln consist of all : ive momcers of the Council of forelgn
Ministers together il, all se.bers of tne uniteo at:ons
which actively weged war with, substantial military fores
against European enemy states. Thereafter the states signa-
tory to the terms of the armistice would dras up the final
texts
LUP CDE

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.92)
-9
tonts of the tresties and those texte weuld be sigaed  rape
resentatives of the states represemted at the sonfesenss
whieh are at war witn the enemy states in questiem and the
signed text would be submitted to the other United Satiems as
war with the enemy atates in question.
This involved procedure was followed in negotiatins the
treaties in question. Use of the CFk as a drafting bedy for
treaties of peace with Germany and Austria has to date proved
unsuccessful.
Sotabliohmeat_of rEc
The Moscow Conference of 1945 also provided for the es-
tablishment of the Far Lastern Commission composed of eleven
Powers with fwnctions including ine formuletion of polieies,
prineiples, and standards in conformity *ith wnion Japan
might fulfill iis ouligations under the terms of surrender.
U8 Propoesl_of_1942
On July 11, 1947, this Gov+rnment proposed that e con-
ference to siscuss a peace treaty wits Japen be held composed
of representatives fren the eleven states members of the Far
üastern Commiseion, that other states &t wer with Japan
should be siven an opportunity to present treir views while
the treaty was being drartad, and that after the treaty had
reached a sufficiently advanced stage it shoulc be considered
by a general conference of all the stales at war with Japan.
It
IULS

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
20
It wes added that with regard to veting presedure this sove
ermment wes disposed to favor votins my a simple tme-thirds
majority. In reply to this proposal ths Ussn steted im iss
Ministers was "organized particularly for preparatory work
of drawing up peuce treaties and therefore it eammet be
1gnored in preparstion of a pease tresty with Japan".
This Government explainec in an aide-memoire of Am-
gust 12, 1947, that "although tne cFy was constituted on a
basis whien would nave permitted its use for the preperatiem
of a Treaty of Peace *ith Jupan, provided the members of
the Couneil subsequently agreed, tnis Government does not
believe it appropriate for this matter to be referred to
the Council . . .". Latablishment of tne Far Eastern Cem-
mission constituted in nis Government's view "a recogni-
tion of the rimary interests o! trese Powers in post-
surrender policy matters ior Japar and hence in the pease
settlement. Accorcingly, tno specisi interest of other
Pacirie rovers in the Jap: nuso se:  lement reyuires the Gov-
ornments which coxpossa the couneil of Foreign Ministers to
recognizs trat a conference now to consider that settlement
even prcvisionally should be larger in composition than the
Counell".

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.94)
12
Coumeil." The aide-memeire added that this Gevermmast dss
cot selleve that the Crs as established at Petedam or e
Counoil composed o. the Us, Ux, Ussß and Chine as preposed
by the osn was the appropriate pody to consider the ques-
tion of a Japanese treaty. It was also peinted ous that
the conference would of course be free to decide its om
proeedure.
The other nine Governments to which our proposal had
been eddressed incicated tneir agreement to en elevom-
Power conferencu on the Japanese peace settloment although
severel of them were unwilling to mecept the date of An-
gust 19, 1947, which ve had suggested. The Chinese Ceverm-
ment in its reply said that Chine heo no special desire to
retain the right of veto but that because or China's great
sacrifices anc sufferin: from Japanose aggression Chine at-
tached the xrestest importance to the peace set:lement for
Japan, that, accoruingly, China proposed a compromise for-
mula of oting procedure, naxely, that cecisions at the
conference be mace by twc-thiras zajority of the members of
the conforence present and votin., incluuing the affirma-
tive votes of three of the representatives of China, the
Us, tne Uk, and the Joviet Union. china reserved its deei-
sion to reconsider the question of .oting proeeaure for the
conference
TULCHET

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.92)
-2.2-
conference in the event that the Chimese proposal was mes
found acceptable. Later, China  fermally amd puklialy
suggested acceptanee of the F#C voting rormula.
At the recent meetins of the CFz 1n Paris on May 23
the ss? inaicsten tnet it wished to ruise for considere-
tion the proolem of the treaty with Japan and in partienlar
the question of wren the Crs should meet again with Chime
atteruing as provided in the Potedam Agreement. At the
olosing session on June 20 the cosh reverted to the matter,
asking that agreement be reaened concernins setting e dete
for a special session of the Crs to consider the Japanese
peace treaty. ur. Aaheson suid trst this Government had
repeatedly shown its desire for the early consideration of
e Japanese peace treaty bu: it ciu not consider the CrM an
appropriate bcay for this purpose, that we still favor a
conference of Fac countries  hich would allow netions
olosely associted wi:n tre ucfost of Jupan to express
treir views, and that we were always renuy to disouss pro-
cedural questions involvec t rugn iplomatic channels.
Franee and the UA gave generei support to tne Us position.
r. Visninsky tren argued c st te Fotsuam Agrsement
speeirioully envisaceu that tne Cru woul: prepere the Japa-
nese treaty, tat nina hsd reserveu tne rignt to
participato
102006001

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.91)
TOL_AEGBEE
-23-
participate in the Cry, and thet ether interested Pewers
should be consulted in the same manner as they were on she
satellite peaee treaties. In reply Mr. Aoheson ststed that
the U3 views nad been set forth in 1947, tnat Potsdam did not
mention the Japanese peace treaty in amy way, that the Peta-
dam Agreement was actuully signed before the s3s was at wer
with Japan, anc that the Us insisted that countries which
bore the brunt of the war vith Japan should participate in
crafting that treaty as major participants, not just as
consuitants.
It is against tais vackground that the possible alternm-
tive procecures are to be considered.
I. Becoti tionz in the Cru.
composition of the CFe
As has been indicated above, the viSA nas wai: tained
that the Cra shoulo ce utilized ir. preparing the peace set-
tloment for Japan. The Usin has helu that the Cfu for this
purpose shoulo consist of the i, iin, china, and Great
Britain as the : owers vlicn "sacured victory over asgressive
Japan with their armed forces and stiil curing tne course of
the war with Japan reacheu speciiic agreaments nmong them-
seives both on questions of concuct of the war as well as on
questions or post-er settlewent". (soviet eide-memoire of
July
TOCRE1

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.84)
XQF_BEGBAT
-140
July 22, 1947.) In our reply of august 12, 1947, we bave
taken the position that "neither the Conneil of Poreign Mim-
lsters, us establlsned at Potsdam, nor a Couneil compemed ef
the representatives of tne four Powers mentioned by the
Soviet Government" is too appropriate body for taking up the
question or a vapanese penca tresty.
In consicering then the use of the Cra for proparation
of a Japane e peace treuty un initial uestion would arise
whetrer France sncule or shoule not se includeu. Franee made
no susstential cor tr! sulion to the wi ing of the war in the
Paciilebut neitner id the.
runce toget er witn all
the other F C Posers signed the it sirument of surrender on
deptember 2, l94. It is believs tass we esule make e case
for inclucine rance if it snoule mspear to we to sur inter
ost to co so. o si ori te sitionprese t and potn
telwt ro a to nn   elt rove so de ts cur
aventae
welslon on tals point
olltical comeitions es
they cevelop.
lnee ur co osl tor  elever ver conlereee witn
out to vot wes eoe n l94?.olieiee cor ltlons ave
 s.
he seyr e o support to be
uncicipeted

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.94)
-25
entieipated from the ether rsc Pewers would appear to be evam
less than in 1947, we would probably wish te retaim a vate
pewer ourselves, and China's positien has intreduoed new
compliestions.
Use of the Cfs as a negotiating cecium would offer the
rolloxing advantagess
(1) se would mutosatically obtain a veto.
(2) rhe procedure woula undoubtedly be accoptable to the
USSs whose objection to our previous propesal pre-
vected the initiation of «iscussions 1n 19h7.
(3) Concluslon of e peace se:tlenent would bring the ae-
vantages of reestablishment o: pesce both to the
Japanese anu to other countries directly eoneermed
with the Pacific. so far us the Japanese are eom-
cerned tnese advauteges woula be partly psyeholosi-
cal and partly practical. Uncertainty ooneerming
the possible fature of the setilement would be
ended. Japen woulu cease to be an enemy state and
would resume & sest sworg the nations. The Japa-
nese would also be in position to go out on thoir
own into the wo: lc marxets and make a place for
themselves. If pro ision were made for the termina-
tion or curtailment of the present ocoupation there
would also result a lesseniig of tne us burden of
responsi: ility--financial and otnerwise--in connee-
tion with Japan. (These aavantages would also re-
sult from the use of any other Medium sf negotiation
which brcught about a peace set loment.)
On the other rand, use or the Cre would seem likely to
result in the iollowin iuudvuntagess
(1) The CFE has proved a cwmbersome and diificult nego-
tiating bocy. The recently concluded CF has onee
again coniirmec this conclusion.
(2)
LUE SSC

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.94)
TOP_SICBE
-16
(2) The ether FEC Pewers desire and expest to be im-
eluded in the drarting of the peaee settlement fer
Japan. Political dirricultiss woule resuls frem
their exelusion. It is possible that the Ux weald
feel that it could not subseribe to the wse of the
CFM for drafting the peace treaty in the light of
Austrulian and New Zoaland objoctions.
(3) Although we cannot count on the full support of
other Fec Powers, we would still probably stand to
gain by negotiutini in the larger body, especially
if China's position becomes increasingiy equivocal,
if not nostile. It is here assumed that we would
not wish to onter into negotiations unless we sould
count on & large measure of support from friendly
Powers. He might not wish to enter into negetia-
tions incluuins the ush ir it was cortain that thet
country woulá be opposed to provisions which we re-
garu as essential, except possibly as a means of
making clear that all re sonable efforts to work out
e set lenent inclucing the UsSh had been exhausted
and thut the uecks were ac ordingly clear for nege-
tiatlons without the ussk. This question wikl be
discussed more ful y in conneetion with alternative
liI, below, "gegotistlons amons the Fec Powers vith-
out the Lusn (and Possibly China)".
(4) having clearly expressed our op osition to the use
of the Ctm for this purposo, we coulo not now aceept
it without loss of prestige except in return for
some evident consiceration.
Although ror the above reusons the Cs aight not be con-
sidered acceptable us a aect ur ism for the arafting of the
treaty, reneweo explorntions of views xignt be carried out
through the uiplomatic enannel or otherwise cmong the CFe
Fowers to ascertain whether a common basis exists which sight
wake tie calling of a peece conierence feasible. Cur willing-
ness to accept tne veto--if s-c: is our policy-omight
facilitate
20251

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.93)
27-
facilitate the reashing of an agreemsnt. Ihe Seviet eiés-
memeire ef July 22, 19b7, ssemed to leave the doer opem fer
a mere diseussion within the Cry of the question of eamven-
ing a conference rather than of the substanee of the treaty
itself. The Soviet approach on this question in the Cru om
June 20, 1949, however, was apparently spec1fic on the peint
that the Cis itself would prepare the initial draft of the
treaty. If we desire to enter into multipartite negotimtions
and ir the ish so desires also, it might be possible to work
out some mutually accepteble arrungement by which the Cry
Powers aceting outside the CF& sight agree to the calling of
an eleven-Fower conference or soze otner acceptable arrange-
mont.
11. hecotlations among toe  c Povers.
Ne might propose nesotiations amon the FEc Powers. In-
stead of sugsestins, horever, as we uid in l947 that these
Powers anoulu oporate by a two-triras vote without a veto we
might propose, or make uvicent our -i lingioss to agree to,
use of the . C votins formuls. This formula as stated in the
Terms of heference or the F C, agreed u on at the wcscow Con-
ference in Decesber 1945, provices "the Conmiss1on ay take
actio., by less than unanimous vote provided that action shall
have the concurrence of at least a majority of ali tre
representatives
1U120

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.94)
r
28-
representatives ineluding the representatives of the four
following powers (Us, Ux, Ussa and Chima)."
Legel situation
In conneetion with sueh a propesal, question might agsin
be raised by the UsSh coneerning the competenee of a confer-
enee composed of the FEC Powers to consider the settlement.
It might be argued that the great Powers are bound on the
basis of the Potsdam Agreement to proceed through the Crm in
the ease of the Jap  ase treaty as in the cese of the
Europeas: treaties.
This question hes bes: studied by the Legal Adviser's
offiee in a momorandum of August 7, 1947, entitled "Menner
of Preparetlon of the Ireaty of feace w1th Japan". In that
memorandum te conclusion is reached that "it may therefore
be concluded at most thet :here was & politicel uncorstanding
or intention but not an internstional agreement at Potsdem to
the effect that the couneil oi rorei,n winisters would be the
body for preparing the Japanese peace trenty. No more ean be
said. It is impossible froa the minutes to be precise as to
how fer thore was a weeting of minds even on such a politieal
understenaing. . . . Ihis situation, coupled with the al-
tered politicul circumstunces, two years urter Potscam, would
warrant the Us in feeling thst it is not bound by such a
doubtful

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
-19-
dombtful pelitical understandins, mot inssrperated in the
agresment arrived at, if it is deemed that, in the lighs of
subssquent politicsl experionce, the Couneil is ast as offes-
tive or proper agency for concluuing the Sapanese peaee set-
tlenent, and if political consiserations now neeessitate the
adoption of a different proceaure."
Posslble Expancie of rc Poners
In conneetion witn sucn a proposal pressure might be ex-
erted to expanu tne conference nct only to inciude tne F&c
Powers but also countries wlian #re irectly concerned in the
futurs status of Japan but woich were not included in the Fec
at 1 s establishment in ls4 beceuse they were not then inde-
poncent or for otner reesons. ost prominent among these coun-
tries is Pakistan, but a case mixht elso be mede for Kores,
Burma, ana Ceylon. Constitutional developments in conuection
with Indonesie anu inuocnina ay in the future also provide a
basis for assertine snal ou or voti of tnose areus shoulu
also be included. ihe ssn woulu ciso prosably see to in-
sist thet the mongolian reople's me uolic be included.
Ihese questions wculc present politica! complicstions,
both in reeching agreesent on the compu tion or the negotiat-
ing srou, anu olso li. con:ection i the cegree of support
upon whicn we mi, nt be aole to count frox tns nogotiating
group.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.95)
-20-
group. The advantages and disedventages listed below, es-
eerdingly, will have to be regarded as subjeet to qualifies-
tion depending upon he politicel inelination ef any states
which may be added to the r C group.
Advanteges snd disndvantages
Use or the yic Powers to draft the Japanese treaty woule
offer the following edvantages:
(2) Buch a confere.ce would proviae a broad besis for
the Japanese setllement. It would associate in the
negotiations the Powers which hsve been, cooperatins
with regare :o racific problccs since the surrender
of Japer.
(2) sucr a conference woulu et the same tixe constitute
e body of reasonable size for necotlatins purposes.
(3) sven if we coulu not count on the full support of
the other F:C Powers, we wculd still probably stand
to gain by negotioting smong tnose Fowers es eom-
pared with nogotiatins only among the great Powors,
where--depancine on the ituetion in China--two out
of five votes wignt be against us.
(4) through use o: the F c voting formula we would re-
tuin the veto.
(o) ven ir use or the vete by the sn should prevent
the ado: tion of & treaty, negoti tions among the Fsc
Poners mirrt serve a usoi l purpose as demonstrating
that we wre wiliing t muke every reasonable effort
to cbtain e peace settloment terough multipartite
rogotietions. Ihe cemonstretion of nuch. en attitude
on our part mignt be desirable--both legally and
politically--if we s!.ouls contem: late taking action,
if need oe, mitnout the  oh (and possibly China,
aiso) at a later cate, tiruugh Jilateral negotia-
tions or othorwise.
(6)

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.90)
ZOPAAGANX
-21-
(6) If, however, use of the rsc Powers should result im
the conclusiom of a pease settlement, sush a sestle-
ment would bring the henefits alreasy disemssed
above in conneetion with the Cr (advantage mo. 3.
page 15).
On the other hand, a proposal to use the Fac Powers for
arawing up the draft treaty would seem likely to result in
the following cisadvantages:
(l) The cssh might continue to insist that we were obli-
gated to negotiate throu n the Cry and might aseord-
ingly decline to participate in negotiations on a
broacer basis. The Soviet attitude on this question
would probably cepenu upon its political objoctives
at the moment. Assuming thst it actually dssired
the openin or negotiations for a Japanese settlo-
ment, it mi ht be possi le, as slready suagested, to
obviate this objsction Dy explorations among the CFy
Powers through the aiplomatic chsnnel. Our willing-
ness to accept the Fat voting formule with the veto
rotainou i:ht also lessen Soviet objection.
(2) Australia and some other F C Fowe's «ould almost
certainly object to the retention of the great Power
veto in tho negocietions. it is protable, however,
tret trey oulc not curry toeir objection to the
point of ceclining t, attene the conterence.
(3) The .L has not proved a notably succossful negoti-
atinn docy anc it might ce areued that for that
reason re otlations shoule be oither on a more re-
strictec basis or u brocder basis.
III. dogotietions smone he  c Egnera  ithout the tssa (and
Lossiblx Chine)
If the   shoule aocline to nter into nesoti: tions
ith whe other .C Powers for a ci se peace settleuent
co.siueration miaht be . iven to rceacin. it: stch nerotia-
tions :ithout ts .R.
L0602
10

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.92)
-22-
Lesalsituet1o
The questien of our legal coxpetenee to preceed im eeme
pany with other Fic Powers but wit hout the Ussn to semelude a
peace settlement with Japen has been stuaied by the Legal As-
viser's office in & memorandum of August 7, 1947, entitled
"Manner of Preparation of the Treaty of Peace with Japan".
In trat mezorandun the vuricus wartime declaratlons and
agreemerts beariny un  ity of action among the allied Pewers
are examined. The memorandus concluces that "these state-
ments of a genersl character exp essed e determinetion on the
part of the participetine rowers to vork cogether in organis-
ina peace after the war. There was no specific comiitmont to
make treaties or peece only by joint action if friendly co-
operatior. to that enc shoulc not prove possible or be condu-
cive to a just peuce. In fact t.e in eerts could be inter-
preted as meanitg only that te participating Governmonts
woulc cooperate in estcbiis irs : worlc systes or organiza-
tion for waintainin peece witer the ar." The wemorandum
then refers to several psragraphs ci tie Teheran Leclaretion
and of the Crimes Conference eport an continues "tlese
statexents mace in declarations by the rect Foxers at inter-
national conferer ces, cosprinc politiccl unccrtakins by
those Fowers to sct in concert after the ar, with raspeet
to the negoticticn of pesce treaties as weli as other matters
1n
1UPSECT

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.81)
IOPSSCAST
-23~
in the organisation of peace. But direet commitments regare-
less of circumstunees to make treaties of pesce only Jojntly
ere not found in the statements. Ir it is the view of this
Government that the accord of purpose represented by earlier
stetements has been breachec, it is clear thot there is no
internatiol agreement wnic olus the United stetes to a
course of conauct it is curvinceu nus become an inef ective
and impracticable wetno of settlement of post-war probloms."
Memoranua unalyzingy the legui comylications which might
result from a separete pecce sere ais pro, sreo in the Logel
Adviser's orfice en uglst 2, 194?, ane the subject was
touched upon in aduitio al senorenr by the wegal sdviser's
o. iice of ereh 2 anc prii 1, 14. in t ese memoranda it
wes concluuee that the ot  oule not oe sound to recounize
the Jepe eee covernwent its wten he peace settlemont was
conclucu  te ot r it tlon cor any interin syatem
or lli control ver pan cor a ro atles setlements
wee athout sovlet a iong tat she o let tnion
woul proably be ertitlo e att t sts wio rgr
to depen as it eistes a   f s war ass tor exesple.
   y
be opligeu simllerly t peeo vlze e  a of other aited
we sopr tra
2

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
their situstion with respeet to Japan as it ezisted at the
end of the war! and that a number of questioms womld romaím
unsettled such as, for example, the revival or extimgulshmemt
of bilateral treaties between Japan and the Ussm.
If this Government and other conoerned Gevernments make
all reasonable efforts to reach a general settlement through
multipartite negotiations among concerned Powers and these
efforts prove unsuccessful because of intransigeanee on the
part of the uisn, we miant consicer entering into negotia-
tions without the UssR. He have also to contomplate the
possibility that China es well as the CsöR may be unfriondly
and accordingly to consider the feesi ility of negotiations
without Chins ena the Ussk.
Lavantages
Negotiations for thc conclusion of a Jupunese pemes set-
tloment among the FaC Powers, but excluding the uSSH and
China, might be expectec to have the following advantages:
(1) A eonference of the  c i owers, even if minus the
UssR sno Chine, voulc as ociste in the nogotietions
For the Japunese dettlewent * iarge number of Powers
primarily concerned wit. tne :uture status of Japan
and iully ftmiliar with the proolems to be dealt
with. The r. c Powers might be expanded by tne addi-
tion or otner Powers also uirectly intereated in the
Pacific that uiu vot possess internationel status
when the :C was createu in 19hs or that were not
inciied in the r C (see above, page 19).
(2)

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.86)
KOP_LEGRET
-25-
(2) Suah a conferenes would constituts a body of remsom-
able size for negotiating purposes.
(3) afeguerding of s strategic needs with respest to
Jepan woulc be simplified if negotistions were ear-
ried out in a mecium free frum the soviet (and Chi-
nese Comaunist, veto power. If, in fact, our miml-
aum strategic re uirements are certain to meet with
soviet (snd Chinese Communist) opposition, then ez-
clusion of China unu the ussh from negotiations
would be essenti l if a sectlemont is to be reached.
(4) Conel sion of a so tlement soula bring to Japen the
adv ntuges of reestablishment of peece in so far es
the contrsctins Poxers were concerned. These ad-
vantages woul, or course, be tempered to a dosree
by the lacn of se:tlement of problews between Japan
and the s (an Chine). ihe settlement wouls elso
lesser the o purcen of responsipility--finanetal and
otherwise--in connection iih Japan, but the us would
nave to continue e lurcer measure of responsibility
if the sn une chine are cutsice the settlement than
if those lowers vere incluued.
() 1f the  ssß (ane Chine) shoule decline to participato
in sultipartite ne o iations ano we shoulo then vro-
ceeo to reacn a renson le settleeont withcut them,
the efroct al nt be to stre thes tae orientetion of
the da  esr veo le to are the ts and other friondly
r yrt
h(am Communist
un the otuer hare, ego tlons lthout the n (and
chine) woule eutesl ser  sovante o. whe wuestlon to
be consler s eer e se n o n the n and
wie are t prts  e vrt wl.
orthh
(l) - :eace se tleaent por  not partlcipate in by
the u e  b  ral setl
ment. miteu sros e sot lent ulo be a vst
aree en se of  y, ecnies, and
politics

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.88)
TOPSECAKX
-26-
polities is of partieular importanse to the future
of Japan. The question of the relationship betweem
Japan anú the  Sn and Chine would remain to be
settled.
If Chine mnd the in continue in a state of war
with Jupan trade relutlone woule be hampered, if not
completely thwarted. Liplomatic wnd consular rela-
tions woulc probably not de establisheu, although
political infiltration woulo of course still be
possible. if we desi e to ensure that Japen not be-
come too closely relateu eccnomically with that part
of the Asiatic continent which is under Communist
contrul ane to reuuce politic l exchanges betweon
suci urees and Japan, tne above result might be to
our euvantage. Japan woulu be .orced to make
greeter efforts to buil up econozic relations with
other areas such as, sor exemple, Latin Aserice.
Consicerig the con tion or incuatry in wanehurla
and sorth Chine res lting both from war and Soviet
deprecations, und ccnsicering the ceficiency among
the chinese cousurists of technical competence and
economic lesdersnip, it may ce tlut manchuria and
Nortn chine canot be counteu upon witnin the fore-
seeable future o proviue suudtantial merkets for
Japanese zoous or suterials for Japunese industry.
in such case the loss or these auvanteses would not
constitute a urawbach. un the other hund, it is
possible thst woviet techiciuns cay be furnished to
the chinhese communests, mmlch may emesle tave to
mee a start in sccosie reconstruction or mancnurie
an ort chi.   e extot or Japan'
needs in terms or exp ort carkets, it may be essen-
tial, if Je an is to cscme veun leclly self
surflcient, er Jape t ex.lolt all  ossiole mar
wets, lnelt ine ths sovtet and oni ese. es well es
marnets farther efieie.
(a) The bosh ane china woale tot, of e urse, de boune to
recognize eny of the arraeents reacnee by the
other wers in rel tien t dereh he on and
China mi nt chailenae tre leesl basia of t ls set-
tlement s m nt clamat e had cerogatee from
internebloar uneeruterl o com itments in
makins the setllesent.
(3)

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.86)
IOP_BSCANZ
-27-
(3) The USSa and Chine wight then proceed to carry the
questlon of the validity of the settlement befere
the internationsl Court of Justiee or possibly even
before the U&--although the latter step would pro-
bably encounter legal oustaeles in conneetion with
article l07 of the Charter. (See alternetive IV,
below, Beference to the Vh.) Bither of these stops
would pro lde forums and exploitetion for propagamde
purposes uy the USuR ano the Chinese Commanists. De-
penaing on the ature of the settlement, they would
protably attempt to create Gissatisfection in Japen
witr. the terms reac eu, uncertainty concerning the
legel validity or the arrangenents, and a movoment
for revislon or tre setilement.
(4) The cslh and china mignt t proceed to conclude 
treaty witn Japax. on a most generous basis, thus
seeking to appeur in the uise of a friend of the
Jepanese poople a so cene tre Us and other FEc
rowers appeur vengerful snd grasping. as the sk
and chins coule no: hope to obtain be efits fron the
settlement reacheo by the other f C Powere, they
coulu afi ore to meke the cesture of not asking for
suct bet erits. he, coulc, ror example, provide in
the treaty thet the yukyus shoulo e returned to
Japan, renounce reperstiuns, dennunce any effort to
establisn a level of incustry, oecline to taxe part
in any resime of control, ofler trace concessions
(probably on & oerter basis),sivo a non-ageression
leaee to Jup, s recore Cheir ire for the de
velopet er tr uly v mutually ceneficlel rele-
tions between the
he erleetive as or sel a taetle woule dspee in
art n the moture I ne oeral peace set lement
win w t theh if it c 
contals provtslons for re orations or attemet to
estaelis e lo of leuts or a reelce or con
trol, she efrectiveses or r woviet tectle would
e ls     wv f 
re to proceeu ithst the
nitottmp
to evoie pur itive-sounelre vi lo s in wur settle
men e   le th ete cbont roprty
r
OnerouB.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.83)
ZOP SHCHET
-28-
onerous. The offeotiveness of the Soviet teetie
would also be reduced if we were in position to of-
fer substa tiel material aid to the Japanese at the
mace tise the peace settlecent was concluded.
The ws R misht be deterred fros concluding too
friendly : resty in Japan by a consideration of
the posslele auverse ef oct of suct a wove on Boviet
influence in therrts of sia vhere the s is ae-
cused f overfriendliness t Jupen and an opposite
policy has cersid rabie popular appeal.
() The san i ht slso  rocece to tme uirect counter-
measures. ins occupation or points in Jepan might
be untertaken, for exanpls, if uncer the peace set-
tloment or se,aretely the s hed obtained base
rignts or e uivelent facilities n te wain islands
of Japan. The lixelincoc of the sSh's adopting
counterceusures wouls be afrectes robably by
(a) The over-sil politice vit tion, including the
question hetr the n desired e heve the
sit tlo in te rar ast rouc a crlis nd
(b) The size of cur wiap  sable lorces in the vicin-
ity, couplec with s -ovlet eutimate of the ex-
tent  vlo  oul ooably go t meet
their countermeusures.
 aaitionl lactor mi bt de t olon of the
efleet or co tersar   ovlet poplarity in
  re lo localy to ovlet
weo m of to  ot,  ever prevented
olren, or exmmple.
bles, ,  vt e to nre u
presoie y resein    ehellene in the
ser st   or llin t d
 S
rely
fr t         
the eupati of p  ln  an, w ess they wer
convleeee w meutre latt o of sur wases on the
p  ne k.
(0)

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.86)
TOP SECRST
-29-
(6) Finally, the questien of territorial settlements of-
fected without the conourrenee of two of the five
great Powers might create problems. It would, for
example, be diificult to arrange for the future of
Formosa without China's consent by any means other
thar recognising China's sovereignty over it, unless
we should de prepareu to consider measures of direet
military intervention. If we should decide that the
nyunyus, sonins, Volcanos und darcus Island should
be placed unuer a strategic trusteeship, the UssR
and Cnina would be in posit on to bloch any such
proposal in the security cou cil if they had not
reviously egreed to it. It is, however, improbable
that they woulc be vil ine o agree to it in any
case. Otner arre..gemer.ts for the uisposi ion of
these islancs woulc be open to legal chellenge, al-
thoue as a precticul matter tae power in actual
possession woulu, or course, onjoy a position diffi-
cult to uisturb.
in consicerils  etrer to pro ose negotiations without
the  ssh ane china, an a ditlunel lactor to be consiuered is
the extent to  ich  e count in such megotistlons upon
friundly F roners sorpport in o aining sur cvectives
vitn rearu to Japan.
o bt t c  sot o suot f rlnly
pao Posers in szotictlons athout the on and Chine?
lec yeare an0, in l94/, we is covernment mde its
proposel for  pe     s for e Japese set
tlement we provosee megotievtons amoos thw re Powe s and in
cleteo our tll   so ore yo the ve t wat time
ts ver t   t n sup
ort o ber
peece trey or pie
i
1
40

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.95)
TOP SEGANZ
-30-
At the prosent time there woulo seem to be doubt
whether a similar situation now exists. The chenge, it is
believeu, i. due in large part to developxents in the world
situatior. and in particular to increasing evidences of
Soviet intentions an- -salization of the means neeessary to
counter those intentions. The derlin irlift was insti-
tuteo, e lurts to reich agreerent on he sorman snd Austrimn
se:tlements have proveu unsuccessful, anu the Chinese Com-
munists have spreas over a large part of china.
The
Truman uoctrine an: ne Marshsll Plen, announced earlior in
1947, nave bren ceveloped to west the esergeney. It has
become incre singly evident that :or the security of the
Pacific unu for our on security we must enaure Japan's
alignment wit e estern owers.
hile the other fri nuly Far astern Commission Powors
are aware of c is situction, tneir reaction to it has
oiffered from that of tis Gov rnment. Desirous of ensur-
ing tnat Japu: snoulc not in Iuture again become an economle
competitor, tnose  owers prefer to c slowly in building up
Jepan's traue and otnor economic relationships.
They
accept

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.93)
ZOP_SEGRER
-32-
acoept Japan's pacifist status as reassuranee that Japen will
not egain be in position to earry on aagressive wsr. While
appreciating the necessity for assuring Japan's security and
reslizins the seriousness of Japan's economie prospeets, they
are confiuent hat unde uny cunditions the United states
will as ure thu securi:y of c'e Fecific mnd will ensure that
at loast a minimux ata utrd of iivin iu maintained in Japan.
There is thus e basle uifference in epproaon to the questiem
of Japan's Suture status cetween trhe ited states and the
other P.C Fowers. The other F C Porers are likely to be
willing to acguiosce in uny ressocable proposals on our part
in com:ection witn proviuins our minimue strategic re uire-
monts with respect to Jupan. Un the otner nane, they are
likely to dirfer witn us on re,arations, level or industry,
regize of control, und visarsaset snd cenilitarization of
Japan. On al. those watters they are likely to favor a far
more stringent attituueun tt  icr. t: is Covernment be-
lieves to oe fausibie or desiravis in tre circwastences.
These are all matters of basic importa ce to the pease
settlesent. It is possi le  at a virorous effort on our
part to prese t e c  cio picture of the situation ith ro-
spect to Japan wi L cuuso he fris uly  C Powers to alter
troir positions anu orin
tum into accord vith ours. It
ay

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.93)
-32-
may, however, be neeessary for us et the same sime te make
some concessions in our position--as, for exmmple, om the
level of industry--if we ere to so ieve agreement sith she
other Fsc Powers. Efrorts on our part to win mhoir suppert
in conneotion with resuwption or Japanese aativities in tee
cical organisations such: as the Ifu and the UPu have not to
cate been successful. It is evident that to be suecessful
our eflorts to wir support for our position will have to be
more intensive ana iu: -reaching.
It is also to be kept in mind thet in negotiations among
the Fut Powere without the ussn and China our friends may
feel grealer freecom in op osing our wishes toan they would
in tne presence of a compon opponent.
The whole yuestion of reaahing agrescent between our
vlews and those of the o:her i C Powers woulu clourly have to
be fuliy exploren t..r u.r. iplomatic canvels sefore negotia-
tions in & conference coula e underteken.
IV. Baferense to the u
The U. nctine uruer Article 14 of the Charter of the
United hatiors mignt brin, trv failure to roach s peace sot-
tlement with Jepen to the attentics: o! the General Asssmbly
as a situation lixely to 1mpair fric.uly relations emong na-
tions. The us sight at te sase ime sumit a uraft
resolution

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.93)
-33-
reselutien deslaring that the reaching of & pease mettlemems
wish Japan in the near future was essential to the pease of
the Pacific ares and recamnsnding that the coneerned Füs
Powers (together #ith oteer Powers whion we might suggest)
make ronexeu ei: orts toward reaching a peace settlement witm
Japan, along the lines of a working formule which we might
spaciry. sucn a proceuure voula os roughly analagous to that
followed in the cuse of aorea.
Locslitustion
article 107 of he Charto: or the uN provides as fol-
lows:
"Hothing in the present Charter shall invalidate or
preclude action, in relatio. to eny state which during
the Second worl: Nar has been an enemy of any signatory
to the present Charter, taken or autuorised as a result
of that wur by she dovernments having responsibility for
such action."
A strict interpretation or tuis Arlicle would not pre-
clude our bringing bofore the Us the uestion of inection--ms
contrasted wicn actiun--xith re s u t: Japan. There appears.
nowever, to nave beer an informal wnderstonding at San
Franoisso that matters releting o the hanaling of enomy
countries wolu e oxcluded from consiceration by the Un un-
til such time as the vi torious Fovers concerned determined
to transfer sucn questions to le cr asization. Ihe exact
extent
TOFSC

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.92)
-34
extent ef this understanding has been veriemsly reperted y
persons prezent at the San Francisco Conferemse. Om the em-
istenee of the understanuins, however, there would seem se be
general agreement.
Adventszes and_kiaadvantskes
Referring tre metter to tne th would offer the fellowing
advantagos:
(1) If conerai support for tsis course of action could
be obtaineu, it woulu provide a generally agrosd
legal pasis for a lew atart on the Japanese pease
setiesntuostion
(2) e wignt obtuin a wiuer mensure of support in the
General Assamply ror our upproach to the Japanese
treaty probieu than in the Cr or other small body.
(3) Japan woul. obtuin tre advantages oi tho conciusion
of  peace settlemont  cussed above.
On the other hanm, the proceduro misnt be open to the
rollowiry isadventaes:
(1) As indicated in the uiscussion of tne logul situm-
tion, several countries voulc prooably be reluctent
to have prosless relatirs to the pesce settlement
referred to the Us. The . SsR woulu u coubtedly
charce a oreacu o: ooli, atior. on cur part if wo made
such s proposal. It,  osever, the ua supported the
proposal the valluity c: te lezal oujectlons would
becore less conseguentlal. Tne   R might disassoei-
ate itselr Irun any proceaure ror peacomaking adopted
by the GA and we xi nt ceet uceordingly some of the
cisauvanteses uiscussea socve in con eotion with ne-
gotiations smons the F t hations sithout the ussk.
(2) if the proceuure were ciscuss a in the Goneral ns-
somuls s. eilor. wignt De ade tt associate in the
peace

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.92)
-35-
peaes treaty prosedure all countries at war with
Jepan. It is believed that we would fare as wall im
negetietions in this larger body as im negotiatiems
amons the FC or CPk sroup of states. At the reeemt
International Telegraph and Telophene Conferense of
the International Telecommunieations Unien at Paris
in June or this year a U3 proposal that Japan be má-
mitted to the conference ss an independent delega-
lion wes rejeeted by a vote of 24 to 23 with 7 ab-
stentions. It is believed, nowever, that this pre-
posal does not conatitute à clearaoutttestobr:the
support which our policy tomard Japan might reeoivo
in è Un rorum because a number of states whioh hed
througn ciplowatio clannsls iidiouteu that they wore
favorably disposed towaru che Us proposal either
failed to instruc: their delexation in Paris in timo
or friled to be represented at the conferenee. In
general the Lutin nwericun nd rab states have
shown tremsuives favorebly lisposed toward bringing
Japan pac: into 1.ternattonal trace relationships.
In a larger couy, of course, it would, howover,
probably pe more di: ficult to retain the veto power.
v. Parallel cilateral treuties
The Us and other friencly Fowors might conclude bilateral
treaties in liet or è cenerul, ecce se tlcmont n a multilat-
eral basis. Uncer t.is procecure no zeniorul peace sottlement
woulc be ro,ircd, wes iuns of the vete woulu not arise, and
the  woule be : ree t cencicce a airilar treaty i it so
desirec. hese cileteral tren is mi, nt be :olloweo by 
base aureament vetween the ls and vapan if such ere reguired.
Legal_situation
The legel ition wiin rega d to the conelusion of
separate bilatoral troaties #itl Japan nas been stucied by
the
TUFOSCAST

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.90)
1OPSACH
-36-
the Legal Adviser's offies in memoranda of Mareh 23 mmd
April 1, 1949. In these memoranda refarence is made to the
agreements und understuldings conoluded durins the was amns
the lliec Porers with resurs to cooperation. it is foumd
thet ti.ese ucuments lis not involve an obligation not to
conclude a separate peece "regercless of tro impossibility of
concluuing a joint Lnited stlons petce witn eaen enemy". t
the same time it 1o founu that the Us would not be logally
justiried in abanccnin. sll el. orts to ccoperate in the peaee
and working unilate aily for the attainmont of its own objee-
tives. It was pointed out aiso hat the trsaty would leave
unresclved nuxarous and vital issues, but that, "except for
our cozritre:: :. unity of purpose and action in the peace,
there appear to be nc locl conplicmtions .ecessurily ine1-
dent to a separate peace exceptine trose cue to our participa-
tion in the rezime of c ntrol set up te scminister the ocoupm-
tion of Japan by ths alliee  mers". it was anced, however.
that it was ithin u undoubt d power to efiect for praotieal
purposus a drastic c ange in the present yaten of occupation
in Japan. o could ct in theory, however, termin: to that
systom.
The momoranaum of arch  conciuced as follows:
"7. Ihe opinion giver. ebove ic, of course, subjeet
to mocification for all scrts or possible variants of
the
1UF2C.51

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
-37-
the propesitien put. It is quite pessible, f=r ss=
stanee, that so many of the 'friendly Fmc eountries'
notified of the substanee of our proposed treaty?
would go alons with it, in the conelusion or similar
treaties, as to make it a watter of gonsrel asfesment.
It As possible that our bilateral treaty mould contain
previsions for a cortinuance of the ocoupation mnsil the
otne: countries hed individually concluded their trem-
ties with Japun. It is quite impossible to judge as to
the legality of all possi le variants of the sitmtion
without knosins the terms of the proposed Us-Japan
Treaty of Peace."
It is accorcingly clear thet this approaon woula be een-
sidered only i: all reasoncole elierts (o reach a peace set-
tlement tnrough multipartite negotistions hed proved futile
and it wes eviue: t trat & general pecce settlement could not
be reacned by s..ci. mea.s.
Ruestion might be raised concecning Japun's competenee
to enter into ciluteral tresti s o: tnis sype xithout express
authorization from the FeC--suthorization which it is to be
assumed voula not te fortrconin uner pre ent ciroumstanees.
The asic cocuments relstin  tc cccu; utin of Japen de
not appear to provice a clear-cut answer to the question
whethor control of capan's rorelrn reiations res's primariiy
with scAp or xith the  t. the issuance or the otarIn's in
l94y concerning Jepan's roreign roictic's woul, seew to in-
dieate that sthi hac contrci of :oreign relations at least
In the abserce of any contrury cec.. ion by te rt. ubse-
quently, however, so.e r c states have queslioned tnis viow
and

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.92)
TOPSECB
-380
and have held that authorixation by the FzC was neeessasy.
Recently the Us Government submitted to the sC a proposed
policy under wrich the PC would decide thet soaP, subjeet to
his ciscretion snd continued control, shoulc permit Japan to
participate in suct irternational relations as Japen might be
invited to inter i tc or cs CA should consider to be in the
best irteres's of the occupation. Even if this policy state-
cent were ado, ted, nowever, sr e rcom mignt be left for argu-
ment trat ths canclusion of  oiiticel treaties was not in-
oludea within trs scope of te policy statewert.
It is believed, however, thst & cse coul: be made for
Japen's cerscity to enter intc bipartite political treaties
with sCa"'s consent. The stre' gth or this case would dopond
in part upor tne degree of support received from other eon-
cerned Frc Powers and from other Posers et rar sith Japan.
If the procacure of parellel bipartite treatins is to bo fol-
lowec, such su port  o le cloerly nave to be fortncoming. We
woulc probebly wish to ulucur: zhe proposrl inrormally with
several otner (oncerned rovers sc es to reach a reasoneble
aojustment of viens before uncertakins to conclude the
treatios.
contont

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.87)
ROPBCAET
-39
Contant_oi_she_Treatien
Jome problems would arise in conneetion with the ssmtems
of the treaties. Provision for the resstebllabment of diple-
matic ene consular relations couls, oi course, be made. In
connection sitn a pro ision for tne termisation of the wer,
however, in woul have to be fept in sinu that under the gon-
eral principies oi intornatic.al law questions not speclfically
treuteu ut the ti.s oi tne retslacliunment of reace would re-
main us at tne conciuslor. oi tre ponce. ccoruingly all mat-
tors, the pressnt status o. w ics we uosire to see sltered,
should be up=cilically cealt /tn in the Diluteral agroements
or reservec for iuture setcloment. wome of ine suujects nor-
mally inciud a wiclin the terns cs : peace treaty ure not
susceptisle tc settlement on & dilaterul sasis. This diffi-
culty sint ce osviatua by prcviuing i. she bilateral tresties
that he contractine parti s uar. e chut a speciric quostion
shoulc be settled it a upecific mtier. ror example, the us
ane dapan, vot treaseives havin me rient to sispose rinally
of torrlturiul queslicns, coulu, Lowever, atree that Japer.
ives up its ries to norea une certcin islunds. In the
ease of the iaiencs, the two coun ries coulc also agree that
the islznes shutlt  wer t sovereity o! a state (which
woulc be nuuu in tre ugreelert). if e consiuerable number
of bilaterai treali s oet eer Japen and states at war contain
th1
10上2

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.91)
TOPSECRMT
40
this same provislon the effeot would be to all iatemts and
purposes the samo as a provision in a seneral settlement.
This teehnigue for making bilateral disposition of rights of
generel interest was followed in con ection with the relin-
quishment of extrate I orial :ights in China by various
Powere uri and urter the war.
The regime o: contrel woulo presert speciel probloms in
conmcction it bileteral rocefure. It is selieved that in
viow of the speci: ic provision in the oasic cocuments roquir-
ing Fac consent to any basic chenge in the regine of control,
the oipartite egr-ewen's wculd pre'a: ly nave either specifi-
cally or by ioferenco to untinue the present regime of con-
trol unless we were preperec to fracture the basic under-
stendinfs now in force. of cours", as a ,ractics! catter a
number of seesures co.lc be t ke graduelly by this Govorn-
mont sch woul suustentiully elter t oxisting regime of
eontrel anc for s icn no trecty orovtslon we-le ce reuuired.
The sltuation iin regare to ti woul create : roblezs.
A possivle preceuent, insicating trut toraination or the
state of war is cot inccnsiste t wit: ro in ation of an oe-
cupstion or evar ci con rol aut rities, ls to ve found in
the sritisn notific: tior oi sestecer lo, l947, deciaring
torginateu tne  ormal tate . wsr cetxeen the ik anc Austria.
Austrim

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.92)
KOP_ANGREK
2-
Austria, of course, as far as the Us is seneermed, mas besm
regarded as a liberated state and we did not deslare wr 
Austria.
Under the Treaty of Yersailles a part of Cermany was to
be oecupiea for a perioc of years as a ruarantee for the
ozecution or the tresty.
If it is concluded that no fundamental change in the ox-
istins regime of cortrol c uld ba legally effectee through
parallel bileterel egreements less the required Fic Powers
incjuding he bolt were perty theretc, the recessity for a
soparate bases agrsenent Dy the  d Japen would be re-
dueed. The u3 would zerely re ain In ccu etion of desired
bases t rough the powero now vested in Sc:f.
Agvantages_uisadventaces
Assuming that il reesonable e:rorts to co clude a sot-
tloment en a xultipartite "asis  ave preved fruitless, the
prococure oi pa  llel blluteral ne otiations micht have the
followirv:ntses:
(1) It mi lit sffor a practica) teans of making progress.
Aruments over the states wiich sr.ould be invitea to
a conferce, voting "ccecures, and other details
would ce cbviatou. ihe s n woulu lot be pointodly
excluned :or thet country votl: s free to conclude
a tresty like the others.
(2) if prsusures for a peace treaty incrause in Japan
enu nmony the other F C Pove"s it may become essen-
tisl to rinc soae mea.s of reaching a settlement
rapidly.
(3)
TOP C

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.91)
ZOL&EGEES
2-
(3) Sueh a procedure might help te oriemtate Japanese
feeline more strongly toward the West, for is woals
be clear thet we and ether friendly Powers ware
working for a peacs ssttlement for Japan.
(4) soms of the benefits resulting from a peaee settle-
ment--both for Japan, the Us, and other Powers
generelly--would resuit from suon * procedure.
Un the other hand, such a procedure might have the fol-
lowing uisadvantaes:
(1) The legality of the proceura witht be quostioned
with results similer to  ose discuss d above in
connection witn the conciusion of a treaty without
the:.
(2) The success of the   roceaure vould de end upon the
cooperation of a nuncer or other friendly Fowers.
such cooperation micnt so cifricuit to obtain. 
vigorous campaisn on our part to educate,, with a
viex to convertine, the other f'risndly Powers to the
need for adopting such procedure would have to be
uncertaken. If the reparations ugstion is settled
through discussions in tne  C tnere would be
greater hope for sutcess. Tne otner friendly Powers
woulo probably not o joct to measures which we might
propose viti. resaru to te: itoriai set lements,
property matters, reestablisnment of relations, et
cetera, or to the co.tii.mance of t.e occupation in
drasticaliy reoruanizec form for a purioi of years.
The xuescion of tne iuvei or inuustry mignt create
à matter or contention. Ihe problen of SCAp might
also be uifiicult to le e   legal und
practical grounus.
vI. coctinunnge of tno vsgunstign_xcazticulai nnocculizad
Ir it shoulu be founc thet .o. oilaticns on & multipar-
tite basis were impracticable or uncesirable at the present
time, consiuerution sight oo siven t. continuine the pres-
ent occupation on a crastic lly reorzullizeu basia.
01

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.93)
3-
Lecal_disuation
Within the framewerk of the basie doeumemts relasims te
the ocoupation, there is considerable leeway for substastially
meeomplishing many of our objectives with respeet to Japam
without muditional Fzc policy decisions.
wit. regaru to territorial provisions, we are now in
military cccupulion of the Ryukyus, the ponins, Volcanos, and
Merous Island. e coulc continue to remain in occupation of
these arers, could institute a civilian fora of covernment in
the islanes, ostablish cuses or take similar steps wrich
would give clear incication of cur intention that the lslands
shall remmin under s control. e coul. not, of course, take
any steps with respect tc the permanent cisptsition of the
turiles or ormose.
In so far as our occupation forces are concerned, the
occupation oi Janan is now carri d almost exclusively by
Amorican forces. e coulc gracuelly rouuce tnese occupation
foroes by withorewis trom fror tee muin islenus or station-
ing t em on ukinewe or otner aporo rlate location outside the
msin islands of Japan. A s-eleton force voulo probably have
to be reteined in uanan, in vien or  he "ovision in the
Potsdam veclrs ion tnat until a ne order is establianed in
Japan enc t ere is convincing prcof at apan's war-making
power is destroyen--matters nich it is believou the F C
would

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.91)
would heve te determine--"peints in Japanese territery to be
desigmated by the Allies shell be occupied to seeure the
sehievement" of our basic objectives. It is understoed that
the "points" to be cccupied have been selected by scap and he
sould sccoruingly reduce tne number of points to be oeoupied
and coulc occupy them with e ;urely token force. similarly,
sCap heacyuarters coulo be reduced so that only a very
limitec stair wouln remein in an auvisory und supervisory
capacity while the Ja . oue aulo: itius tremselves assumed
precticully complete responsioility :or ovornmentel
functions.
In so far as foreigi relctions are concerleu, as nas
beon inuicaleu above, tne uasic cccuxents are not clear on
the question wnut..er a peramoun. su.ority  control Japan's
foreign relations ress with scnr or with the rt. if the
policy paper wr.ien we recentl, suomitceo to the r.c is up-
proved t ls vuestion ouic us cleared up ts a cegree. Its
toras, however, pre susceptiole or varlcus interpretations
and controversy wolo stil. r al. iti reguru to loreign re-
lations not belleveu to D= coverec by the policy statement.
scar coulu, hoxever, probubly parmit jupan co unter into con-
sular ane ossluly limlted uislowatic utiuns wic cther
countris sssirine to car  on sucn selations ane  enter
into aaroemencs reiatine to cruce ane tecimlcal mattars.
japanese

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.84)
2OP_ARGRE2
5-
Japanese disarmaxent is now virtually completed. Im the
absence of e peace settlement SCaf could conauot whstevor ime
speotions might be necessary to unsure that Japan remained
disarsec and demiliturized. Lnder existing FsC poliey doci-
slons the civii police force may be crmuu oly sitn amall
arms anc the co st cuaru is limited poth as ts aruamont and
as to sceec or vessel. Trese restrictions would prouably
ereste prorlems. vuor exiating   policy  cisions alse
the Jupa ese could not operaty ci il nireraft for essential
dozeatic ;urposes.
The us poliey witn regaro to rep«ratlons nas aiready
boon ai.ounctu. it is still too sarly to .ranict slut set-
tlement or tne re vrations prouieu viil cu reucise. In any
case, uncer recent v uirectiv.s to  , re, a tions remov-
als iil be lelted.
ihe econocic ane voiitice relo.m prograns ill have to
continue itnin the frae volics cecisio.
scaris irecdon oi cctic in c. ctis ith coneic ane
politicas wat lora is acc cins lis te   vary cnsider
l u y  i. ,ve
initlate hea .siore sasures, tr  r rse sut orities
to ilwe uitine ss r.
SCAP

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.93)
TOPLEBET
-4
SCAP could, hovever, operate inereasingly im an mdvisery
or supervisory capaoity, leaving the implementation of the
declsins to the Jupanese authorities.
Advantages and Diesdvantages
If we should deoide to contimue with the ocoupation in
a dr»stienlly reorganized fore, the followine mdvantages
might result:
(1) we should be in position to continue our influenee
in Jopan, enoourage Japan to continue aleng the
forward-looking path whloh it has adopted, and pre-
vent untoward developments to a grenter degree than
would be posslble ir the ocoupntlon were torminated
and some form of Allied supervislon substituted.
(2) Suoh a prooedure would correot many of the operm-
tional defests of the oooupstion ss now constiteted.
(3) We would be incre:sing Japan's rasponsibility and
to a degree ut leust reduoing the extent of our
finanoial nommitments. Japun would be able gradu-
ally to assume the attributcs of a sovereign state
to a large mensurs. It  ould t the same time en-
joy the ndv ntaces of as nci tion with the Us at a
time when it needs roteotion both against internal
4isorders and ossible infiltration from without.
On the other hand, a continu noe of the ooou ation,
even in dr stio lly reorranizea corm might be expeoted to
have the following lisa ly ntapes:
(1) The advantares resulting from e peuce settlement as
deso ibed earlier would not be enjoyed by Japan,
the Us, or the other conoerned Powere.
(2) The altuntion of ScAr and the oooupation generally
may be expeotrd to beoome inore eingly difricult as
time goes on. "ven if al: s foroes were withdrawn
frow J pan, the US as raotic lly the sole ocoupying
Power
TOP DROHET

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.93)
TOP SEBEX
-47-
Power would retain a very large measure ef legal
responsibility. If diserders in Japan fellew the
reduction of our forees mnd if the poliee foree
were unable to handle the situatiwn, we wowid, of
course, have to intervene vish attendent eonpliea-
tions.
(3) res ures both within Japan, amonk other Fmo Powers,
and on th- art of the ussp for the conolusion of e
peane settlement mny inore:se so that we would have
as a politinol matter to seek sone other solutiem.
we mliht be in better ooitlon to seek that solutiem
at a time of our ohonsing rather than in response to
outside ressure.
vII. Joint Resolution of the Congress Terminating the War and
Deferring Settlmment of Main Questions until a General
Treaty
If the proapent of obtaining a peneral pesoe settlement
for Jspan appears remote, ve might wian to sive consideration
to termin tins the state of war betveen the 1s and Japan by
Joint resolution of the Congrees.
Legal Situ:tion
At the ant or the Firat orld ir the Us helped negoti-
ate and sirn the Tre ty of Vere 1lles but did not ratiry the
treaty.n July , la, the Presldent roved  joint
resolution of the Co gress which resolved that the state of
war between Derm ny n" the uo "1n bereby deelaren at an end;
that in making tris denl r tion there vere ex resaly reserved
to the a and its nation ls, any and ll rirhte, privileres,
indemnitlrr, ren r:tlons or sdy ntaees together wiel the
rlrht to anforee the same, to whsnt they tave benome entitled
under

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.91)
TOP.SEORET
under the Armistice of November 1l, l9ls or whiek were ms-
quired by the Us by reason or ite participation im the wer
or to whioh its nationals have thereby beoome rightfmlly em-
titlen or whioh under the Treaty or Vereallles have been
stipulated for their benefit or to whion the Us is ontisled
as one of thr principal Allled and Assooiated Powers or is
entitled by virtue of an aot or pote of Congrees or other-
wise." Aleo ineluded  ithin the r-solution were certain
sti pul tions nonnerninr Cerman oroperty in the ns, et oetore.
On Auguat , 92l, a treaty between the 1s und Germany wao
signed and entered into foroe upon eroh nge of ratifio tions
on November 11, 1921.
The Chinese Government, vnlch aid not sin the Versailles
Treaty, termin ted the etat- of war ith termeny by similar
means.
In both these o ses, hosever, a multilateral treaty--
the Tre ty of Versailles--hd lre dy been sirned whioh con-
stituted  stund rd of treatment for Amerioan nd ahinese
interogta r ell.
In t a sn eve. it vould obably
be neoese ry to reserve our pirte in councotlon with matters
whioh we do not 1ch to renein
etm rantly in the statue of
the time of terminatlon of the war.
The ritlel Oovernment on "ember le, 1947, sent a
informine that
commu.le tion to +he ustrin rovernment
Govarnment
TOP H

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.90)
TOP SKCHET
-40-
Government that the British Government had determined "thas.
without rejudioe to the provisions of the sald Deelaratiem
regerting the Surrender of the German Reioh. or of the Agvee-
ment or the 28th June, 1946 relating to the Control Mmehinery
for Austri , or to the deol ion of que. tions the settlement
of wh lch must await the conelusion of a Treaty, the formal
state of var bet: een the United Kinpdom and Austria shall be
immedi. tely terminated and the rel, tlone between themselves
and the Austrian Government forthsith br urht into oonformity
"itr the mmtty which etiated bat ern then bafore the abeve
mentiones ineorpor tion of Austrie into the German Reick.
Advantacee end Diaadv ntages
Dse of thio pronelure mikht ofrer the following
advuntages:
(1) 1 woul ho thot ve were no' merely villing but
eager to brinf about a termi i n or Japan's enemy
atatus and to move toward a se'tlement in the
Paciri. It mirht wcrordinrly be uarful both with
res eot t J n nd ih res eot to countering
oae1?ovir.p na.
(a) ur  ster oul ave the y ror the resum tion
as rialy ns our r tions with the Frc might per-
mit--of i lomatlc as ell ss congular reltions
with Ja an.hile not bri in1 the bonefite of
a peneral e oe so tlrment.  ula nevertheless
Five nope to thr Jnee.
() By sowine th t a intanded to improve Jn an's ata-
tus by such means ae were ogen to us, it might make
other countri.s more 1l inp to uttem t a reasonmble
eftitude jeh mi ht ke oreile  general peaoe
gett lement.
on
TOP SFOEEE

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.90)
TOPSESBET
-80
On the other hand, such a preeedure might have me fu-
lewing disadv integes!
(1) Important mattors bearing on Japan'e future stetus
would be left uneettled.
(?) The argument might be raised that sinoe we have
terminated the state of war with Japan we should
not be entitled to partinipnte in negotiations among
belligerents looking toward a general peace settle-
ment. Vhile stutes frienily to us would probably
not ress this arrument, it might nevertheless oom-
stitute a nomplionting faotor in efforts to remeh a
rrnerally agreed settlrment.
Separate Baacs Agr ement.
In conneotion xith the pue tion of pnfeguarding Japan'e
seourity, cnsiderution might be given to the possibility of
negotl- ing a b ere a. r ement betuern the s and Japan sopa-
rate from and subseguent to the Beneral settlement.
If, for exampl, it should prove that our minimum stra-
tegio requiremente  it  res peot to J pan nenescitate the re-
tention by the us of b ses or ether fsoiliti s on the main
lelonde of a an nni if it is alear Tso t t peueral ugree
ment couls not br o tain  fo our ossersinr sue faollities,
coneldersti n micat be viver to a ua vlin a se arete us-
Japan agrccment un b aes arter the coue usion of the multi-
artite nexotlations. If the Ja  ne • Gov rnment remaine
upon a paciris courae nt ir he over- l internationel
situ tlon continues as troubl.a as at resrat, the Jasnese
Government misht be lis ona o conclud sur an srrrerent.
1t

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.88)
LOP
-81-
It would of couree be nesessary to onsure that the gemerel
settlsment nontained no provisione whieh wowld eperate as a
bar fo such a subsequent bilateral srrangement.
On the other hand, other friendly Powers are likely to
be congern-d in nonngoti n xith the geners! peaee settlememt
over rovi ine for J
an's arcurity and unlres informed of
our intentlons mipht
th t some senurity measures on an
intern tional basie
shiet voul conrliot 1tn our strategio
revuirrments should be inoluded.
If we ex lained our inten-
tinne the information mlrht easily broome penerally known
within a short tise.
Ifc l not ey Jain our intentions
anl a perersl settlement
were n netheles nono uded we might
be open to e o'  rge of b s fuith or at least of unfrirndli-
neea in not baving isolos-d
ur intontions on  oint of
sucn direot pener interest.
The UssF, if inaluded in the
multi artite nex ti tinns, mirht be x coted to teke oare
that the Feneral ao'tlmment ros
so drnft.d that we could not
btain bnes or fanil 'is
subee rently rom Jaan.
if the
 sn in
tuin efrort orae not inoluded
in te mults artite aeroitons sss he us
obtsinrd beee
rishts
in lan on
rtite buei,thp
misht also
attemto
tain  uvent riphte from Ja on.
If our 1s-
osmblr foraes
in the ure
care siaabie ona the 
did not
wish to
rovke in o en risie over tie i aur, thesr
misht

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.88)
TOP BICPET
-52
might not ko to the extent of taking aireot countermeaswres,
sueh as nooupying b ses for iteelf, in the event of a Japa-
nese refusul. it mtpht nonetheless fint numerous waye of
o kin the position of Ju an as a member of the family of
natione irflouls nd of re arjinr its efforte to recover
coonornally.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
TOP SECRET
ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF
INDEFINITELY CONTINUED OCCUPATION OR
CONCLUSION OF A PEACE SETTLEMENT
The underlyine 'psper is a section from a larger study in
preparation in NA, and is only a rough end preliminery draft
of that section.
It is noted in the paper that a multilateral agreement,
bilate al agreements, or both, suerenteeing Japan's security
from external ettack end promotine the security of the Pacific
aree as e whole should be concluded simulteneously with or
following & peace treety vith apan. It is also stated that the
treety should not prohibit Janen from entering into bilateral
or multilaterel base and defense agreements with other stat es.
erald uy,
No attempt is mede in this section of the pape however, to
describe just what sort ofmultilaterel or bilaterel agreements
should be included in the interests of U.S. security, Japenese
security, snc eneral Far E stern security. The thought is
that these security eereements woulo ce discussed es compenion
parts ccompanyine discussion with friendly powers of the
proposed tresty vith Jspan, cnt vould thereby serve to meet the
recuirements of our Ter stern alli s reecroine security in
the Pacific snd fear of possible revivel or the Jrn nese militery
threet. Teese securi ty erreneemente voulo tuereby eneble other
powers such es the F..ili pines, xustrelie, Mel Eerl nd, the U.K.
end the Netherlenes to accept vithout too gr st modirication the
non-punitive, liberel tresty whic we woulc wish to propose.
TOF SECHET

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP SECRET
ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF
INDEFINITELY CONTINUED OCCUPATION OR
CONCLUSION OF A PEACE SETTLEMENT
I. Indefinite Continuation of the Occupation
Under this course the United States would publicly announce
that it planned to remain in occupation in Japan until Japanese
security could be effectively ensured, by the UN or by other
meens, without our presence. A drastic reorganization of
the occupation, along the lines of NSC 13/3 but cerried further,
would be instituted in light of this decision. Necessary U.S.
economic eid vould be continued. Expension of Japanese foreign
trade, includine trede with Communist-dominated areas subject to
minimum security safeguarus, would be encoureged and assisted.
When it beceme apparent thst continuation of direct U.S. control
in Japan was no longer necessary--effective UN security forces
having been established, Jrpen being firmly "on our side", or
the U.S.-UssR strugle having sufficiently eesed--we would
egsin consider the desirebility of e pesce settlement.
Advento es
The puvent: es of this course would se as follows:
1. The United States would r main in actual control
throughout Japen, in c le al position enebling it to ensure
Japanese stcurity fron externe or internal steression, pro-
viding we were prepered to conmit whatever forees might be
necess ry, end to t ke eny other meesures in Janen dictated by
U.s. security needs.
2. It is likely th t stronger Justification could be
mede before Coner ss for necessary ruture relief end rehabili-
tation sid for uaren if Jepen remeins uncer V.S. occupetion
than if it regrins en indenendent, sovereign ststus.
Japan

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
TOP SECRET
-2-
Japen will continue to require. U.s. economic aid for an
indefinite period if U.S. objectives in that country are not to
be sacrificed. Justification for provision of this eid will
probably seem considerably greater in Congress if U.S. troops
are still in occun: tion there then if they have been withdrawn
and Jepan exists merely as one of a number of countries important
to U.S. security on the Soviet periphery.
Lissdventares
1. The strong nsturel desire in Japan for a peace treaty
vould be thwerted, viti. the bleme ettaching mainly to the U.s. in
Jepanese eyes.
Virtually all elements of the Jenenese porulation would con-
tinue to desire : pe: ce tre: ty and full entonomy, even though
much of what they hope to echieve tirough a peace settlement might
have been efrected by reorgenizntion of the occupetion. Ponular
resentment ratinst the oce ction corle te expected to grow, with
the porsiuilit. thet the  posent s ll te r e of tostility towerd
the United Stet s, lre  lesine socor ine to some reports,
would be ma nified. If tie occuoetior once "turned the corner"
from obedience to r sistence, the situ:tion coulc quickly become
unmeneyeable. It mi ht become stesdily more questionrole, es we
were compelled to cdont counter-measures, Whether we could count
on the Japanese to side wit! us in a U.3.-UssR conflict, notwith-
stending our continued economic eid.
2. The Japanese would feil to develoo recuisite resnonsibility
end initi: tive for the solution of the difficult problems with
which their country is faced.
The Jepcnese, even following the occunation reorgenization,
would still not be entirely their ovn mesters ene, as a result,
might be little, if eny, more villing to sssume
responsibility
TOF SECAET

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
3
TOP SECRET
-3-
responsibility and devote themselves wholeheartedly to the solution
of their country's problems than they are today. Their freedom
of action to solve these problems in their own way would continue
to be restricted, even if in reduoed degree.
The tendeney of many
Japenese governmental leaders to hide behind the occupation and
transfer the blume for unpopular measures to it could be expeoted
to remain.
3. Japan would continue to be denied international recognition
and status.
Other countries have shown that they are unwilling to receive
Japan back as a member of the community of nations in the absence
of a peace settlement.
If this attitude is maintained under con-
tinued occupation, as seems probable, it will constitute an
important obstacle to Japan's political reformation and to the
revival of Japanese foreign trade.
4. Increasing dissatiefaction with our failure to proceed
with a treaty and continued virtually exclusive control in Japan
could be expected from at least some of our Allies.
Recent months have witnessed renewed interest in a peace
treaty not only by the Soviets but also by the British, Australians
and other of cur Allies, who have shown increasing dissatisfaction
with what they regard as U.S. unilateralism under the present
regime of control for Japan. Perpetuation of this regime throughout
an indefinitely continued occupation would probably be opposed by
our Allies, but no plan for its alteration could be expected to
win majority acceptance including the four veto powers. Disappear-
ance of Nationalist China would further complicate our problems.
Although most friendly FEC nations would probably end by accommodating
themselves to our position, ill-feeling would be unavoidable
unless
TOP SECRET

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP.SECRET
-4-
unless we were prepared to accord them a far greater role,
outeide the FEC, in policy-making for Japan than we have been
willing to do thus far.
It might be said on balance that this first alternative
course should be followed only if security considerations and
justification of necessary future aid appropriations require.
As to the firot, it can be strongly argued that the basio
U.S. militery objective in Japan--to eneure that in the event
of a U.S.-USSR conflict Japan is "on cur side" with its resources
available to us and denied to tne Soviets--ie more likely to
be achieved througn a peace settlement of the type described
below than through continued occupation. The second of the
above two considerations, altnough important, is not the type
d d  a b d iint es. odicy.
of consiceration en whieh U. S. poltcy. ehould bestcaliy reet.
In all otner respects this first course would appear clearly
contrary to U.s. policy interests for Japan.
II. Conclusion of a Peace Settlement
Under this course the United States would undertake to
conclude a peace treaty with Japan oarticipated in by as many
nations at war with Japan es would accept our minimum desiderata.
The United States would first discuss the content and
procedures of a treaty with the Governments of the ten other
FEC nations, explaining our position on the major issues in a
manner and to a degree appropriate to each nation. If assurances
vere forthcoming from at lesst six of these nations not necessarily
including the Soviet Union and China) that they would sign a peace
treaty which we felt embodied our minimum desiderata, we would
convene a conference of these FEC nations to draft the treaty,
which would subsequently be submitted to the other nations at
war with Japan. The U.S. would decide before convening the
conference
TOP SECRET

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP SECRET
-5-
conference whether it was necessary in view of the assurances
received for the U.S. to insiet on veto voting rights. If the
requisite essurances were not forthcoming from at least six FEC
nations the U.S. would draft a treaty and obtain the concurrence
to it of as many countries at war with Japan as possible.
Our position on the major points of content in a treaty
during the diplomatic discussions with the FEC nations and other
nations wo ld be (1) that the treaty be brief and general;
(2) that it contain e statement of general principles, possibly.
patterned on the principles of the United Nations Charter, to
1i2
which all parties would subscribe; (3) that it provido for
detachment of the Ryukyus below 290 N. Lat.; end other appropriata
internattonal territorial settlements; (4) that it provide for
the settlement of outstanding property claims or for general
principles governing this subject, leaving details for later
individual negotiation; (5) that it record the fulfillment
by Japan of its industrial reparations obligations; (6) that
it obligate Japan to  rant all rights to foreign nationals
in Jepen reciprocally granted to Jepan by other states; (7)
that it not prohibit the establishment of defense forces by
Japan, nor restrict Japanese industriel capacity or production;
(8) that it not provide for any post-treaty controls in Japan;
(9) and that it not prohibit Japan from entering into bilateral o
1..t.。..
pase and defense agreements witn other states.
人
It would also be the U.s. position th't a multilateral
agreement, bilateral agreements, or both, whicn would guarantee
Japen's security from external ettack and promote the security
of the Pacific area as a whole should be concluded simulteneously
with or following the pesce treaty with Japan.
Advantages
TOP SLCRET

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
TOP SECRET
-6-
Advantagee
The advantages of such a peace settlement would be as
follows:
1. The Jepanese Government and people would recover an
indepencent status with full control over end responsibility
for their own sirgirs. In this nosition they could be expected
to work toward e solution of their netion's pro lems with a
determination end singleness of purpose whicn they have never
exhibited, end ere not likely to exnibit, under occupation,
vut which ar essential if these problems are to be met. The
Japanese cen do much better in making the best of the bad situ-
&tion with which they ar feced then we cen possibly do for them.
2. The present smell degree of hostility toward the
United States in Japan co ld be expected not to increase end
might ciminish as & consecuence or U.s. initirtive for the
conclusion of a terce suttlement nt o position to "unegusl"
provisions in th:t settlement.
There is strong ropson to
believe th:t J: pen's cligament "on our side" co ld be more
effectively ensured through  pe ce settlement of the type
described suove then by continued occunetien. Japenese friend-
ship end willinyness to rigit on our sice cannot be compelled
by the pr sence of occunstion forces tut must srise from the
feelines end considereu inter sts of the  eo le.
3. Jrmen's recovery of  normal stetus in tme community of
netions, eesuming thet trerty prren ements vere concluded with
 larte number of nations, Woule esrist its devolopment as a
pe: ceful anc cemocratic stete end better enable it to revive its
foreign trete to speed the dey of self-suprort.
War bitterness
would
TOF SEORT

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.96)
TOP SECRET
-7-
would tend to disappear more quickly through the re-establish-
ment of normal international contacts. The Japanese must be per-
mitted to reach out economically and socially as en equal, self-
respecting member of the community of nations or they will
eventuelly break out militerily es the elly of a professedly
sympethetic and powerful neighbor.
redue
4. The settlement would rediee present U.S. military costs
in Japan. Even if security forces were retained in U.S. bases
in apen, they would presumably be on e more economic basie than
at pr sent, and the Wiole SCAP machinery would be eliminated.
The burden of continued U.S: economic aid to Jao:n could be
expected to be reduced and eliminated et an earlier date then
would othervise be possible, uue to the in proved economic per-
formance of en independent end responsible Japan.
Disadvantares
1.
. The United States vould no lon er be in sctual control
throughout Jepen, and would be restricted in its freedom of
action to ensure Jartn-se security from external or internel
agtression end to trke other mensures in Japen Which might be
dictated by U.S. security interests . 1t.
This disedvantege mi ht be considerably mitigstee if per-
mission were granted the Jap nese to builo u defense forces,
and if  U.s. bese or bsses vere esteblished in Japen either
by internationel :greement or througn a bilsteral egreement
between the U.S. end Jspen.
2. Justificrtion for necese r future relief end rehabili-
tation aid for Japan might not appear as strong to Congress
efter Jepen hes regcined n indenendent, sovereign status as
under continued U.s. occupction.
3. There
TOP SLCAET

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP SECRET
-8-
3. There is danger that a U.S. decision to conclude a
peace settlement with Japen participated in only by those
FEC and other nations at war with Japan as are willing to
accept our minimum desiderate might result in the conclusion
of a treaty not participated in by countries having direct and
vital interests in Japen, to the detriment of our relations
with those countries and unity in the treatment of Japan.
Although this possibility exists, prsent indications
are that most if not all the FC nations except the Soviet
Union and Communist China would follow our lead.
Evaluation
It appears on balance that this second alternetive course
would be more likely to ensure the central objective of a Japan
aligned with the U.S. in the event of war with the Soviet Union
than would an indefinitely continued occupstion. Tais course
appears cleerly preferable to the first from the point of view
of the cttsinment of United Stotes politicrl, economic end social
olicy objectives in Japan.
TOP SECRET
FE:NA:hnFearey :db

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.95)
TO
DATE: August 11,1
Off cefof
FAR EASTEREAFFAIRS
SUBJECT: Tokyo's 450 of July 11, 1949
11949
With reference to the Soviet chirges or "police
brutality" in handling the Tokyo Assembly demonstrations
on May 30-3l, POLAD encloses an official summary of a
detailed investigation of the inoidents. Police specialists
of 3Cap's Publio Safety Division who witnessed the demon-
strations are only critical that the Japanese police were
too lenient in handling the demonstration. Witnesses
attest that there was no brutality or use of unnecessary
coercion.
Comment
This material was used in part in refuting the Soviet
member's charges before the FEC last month. I am attaohing
FW
an appraisal stressing the importance of continuing to
receive similar information on "incidents" likely to be
the subjeot of Soviet charges.
(SenT To FR 8/12/49)
894
smg.
 00
7-111

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.92)
JUL 2 7 1949
for Japan
REC'D
Ammainal shctpoins
JULY 25
No. 450
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION
817:149.
FE
INFO
DCR
Subject:
Polioe Action in Labor Demonstrations of
ITP
ay 30-31, 1949.
OLI
POS
s/s
EUR
The Fonor. lc
The Secr stery of State,
ashington.
Sir:
T
the honor to refer to tlis Mission's
desptto
385 of Jun 14, 1040, oncerning the
protest
y t oviet emb, llied Council
for Ja
.olice bru lities in con
nection
i tet  Inlor  emonstrt tions before the
-51, 1949, and
Tokyo  ropo it  bly on y
1/2/8
to tram i   tes of
ec:1 Japane reports
on tle iots bt Lred ti poupi the
ilitary Inteliigence
Section, Goneral Fcadpo
7-1149
Returned To
:ies of
ports de by the
ropolitan Police
Guard
 on May 30,
civing
I c Kinji, oné
which
11
or the
 tie Cuard and
Trarfie eetion, voverin ev ts or  ts 1 which led
to seri les betw ile lemonstrstors,
sixty-ul of who. vere arosted.
Enciosure e ts u stu ma y or the invustigation
made into the deati. or Hushimoto by the Tokyo Distriot
894
Procurator's office, which v releused to the Japanese
press on June 6, 1: 49. The complete report of this
investication covors several hundred pages of close
Jupanese hundwriting, with ecatui.cs, building plens,
und photosrarhs. It is evu: blo tor translation in
the files oe the Publie Jufuty Division, General
Headquarters
JAN 1 6 1952
CONDIDENTIAL
FILED
ZX
ACTION CIPY
RETURN TO DOB FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OP AOTION TAB

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatoh No.
50, July 11, 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Headquarters. The results of this investigation
according to the Tokyc District Procurator's office,
lead to the conclusion that Hashimoto's death was
not the result of criminal action but was accidental
and incidental to the general meleeand confusion during
the riot on the evening of May 30. He apparently died
from injuries received when trampled upon by the crowds
milling about the building.
Police specialists of the Public Safety Division
of General Headquarters who witnessed the methods
employed by the Jananese police in dealing with these
demonstretions
the oninion that any criticism
of police action is inappropriate except that the
police were. too lenient in handling the demonstration.
Accordins to these witnesses, there is no indication
of police brutelity or the use of unnecessery force.
A General Headquarters su.mmary of the incident
was sent by telegram to the Depe t ent of the Army
only July 4, 1949 ( 0-511198).
Respectfully poure.
Clcyce K. Huston
Charge d Affuiren ad interim
Enclosures: att
1。
Series of reports made by
 rd and Trarrde Seevion
Tokyo Metropolitan Police.
2。
Re ort of Guaal und Traffie
Section coverin evente of
May 31.
3。
Summary of investigeslor into
death of Mr. Hashimoto made by
Tokyo District Preourator's
Office.
Parohment Mat to Denarument
310
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure no. 1 to Despatch
no. 450 dated uly 11, 1949
from the United States Politioal
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject "Police Action in
Labor Demonstrations of May 30-81,
1949".
(COPY)
MPD DAILY REFORT
FILE: Kei Ko Ri
30 May 1949
To:
Whom it may concern
From:
Director, Guard and Traffic Section
Subj:
Filibuster at Metropolitan Assembly
Sirs:
With reference to the above subject, which occurred
today, I beg to report the outline thereof hereunder.
The Metropolitan Assembly now in session was slated
to be convwened t lzoo hours today However, disturbed
by the representatives or the  blie Jafety Ordinance
Opposition Rally" of the Metropolitan Workers Union end
about 200 free laborers who esse bleu at the square in
the compound of the Metropolitan Office, the Assembly
barely convened the session at 1e45 hours It was
obliged to go into recess some len pinutes later. This
was due to the confusien whien vas brought about by
members of unione belonging to he Metrorolitan Workers
Union and free lane era, turve hundred in all, who
suddenly demanded to sttend sivsings of the Assembly.
Since the majority of t ebjeeuors exce t about forty
of those members of the Polye Trarri. Workere Union und
students retired from t st late. the speeker ordered
the remaining ones to
e ceutn at about leoo tours
None of them obeyed the crue
On the other hand, Pret Taaoere w thered to
the square in front or t y bol! ver do ndng
an intervi ew witn the coorror
Comp Ang  to
request of the Speaher, t r Pollee Setou,
the competent poliee, sent forty oliee en to the
scene to provide inst
The peoole whe remained
there as or l9s0 hours were to in the soate for the
public, 20 or s0 do the oortlor. mna s ot mo outlde
the buiiding.
As for the Metropeltn ssembly. un er the unticipation
that the objectors nisht ril uster. uhe poliey was
decided (1) to convene  sston efter teclering that
the objectors should listen vietly, and in case they
should filibuster they chould be removed from the seats
and (2) in case they should refuse to leave, thoy should
be referred to the rolice
The poliey was agreed upon
with the competent police.
About

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.92)
nclosure no. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 450,
July 11, 1949.
-2~
About 1950 hours (uwenty minutes later) thenumber
of filitusters inereasel to sbout zoo in the pubic seats,
abont 00 1n the corridois, and from 300 to 400 e11
students) outside. o, on the request of the Ma unouchi
Pol ce for ussistanee y two companies of reservs, the
Guard Section disputeheu a company of police to he scene.
The luter stese or atfelrs was as follows:
1 bout coso hours, mombers of the Communst Party
in e jurdsdiecion or the Honden Police Station and
u roup cf studente from a othering at the Kyor tsu Hall,
hallde. a  pourod to ussist The totel number of eople
massel at the Fctropalisan orrice reached soo, at they
wade s great noiss in the corridors and outside he hall.
2 At cbout oo I ures the session was covened
after the deel rat s of wsrhings by the speakerin
tecordence with the policy teeided before. In v ew,
however, of the hills  o be introdu ced at the se sion,
since not a sll Jateiuptlon might be expected, ve
dispatehcd e compemy o. police from the Central leserve
Unit and a compy  m the Jouthern Reserve Unit. This
was as Tao hou s was based on the request o! the
competent police station plus the judgment of the situation
by this Bu.
t. About sles tours, though the inside of tie hall
was very calm, tre  ople in the corridor and outiide
were uproariotsly  mglng the song of revolution nd others,
and showed a state to rilibuster The Governor c dered
them to withdraw frem the place but they did not bey him.
At 2l52 hours the e:verner again issued an order io the
same effect, and at the same time posted a writter notice
to convinee tles of is ovder Eowever they not nly
I nored the ordes b  beoume more uproaricus. As a result
the Gover or ordered the police to tse foree He eupon the
poliee used foree and uavineed to the mase, who literrupted
the pollce aetion by linime up in a seruntage for ation.
he about soso houre tre nolice succeeded in ousting the
mass out of the compoune However, the people of labor
unions vho were wxpetla ecsme more pna more upruarious.
4. At 2237 hours 11 companies of the Southden and
Mastern Reserve Wnit  re crdered mobilized, and at the
pame time atugo, Teu , Randa Kyobashi, Nihonbashi,
Kojimachi, Ahasana, c Yotsuya Police Stationswere
ordered to suli p thelr police for emergeney duty end to
assist the urunoueli Ststion
5. At ssoe hours the Asseably was closed and the
students outside the hall, knowing this fact, begen to
aisperse end returm home.
6。 At

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
sosure no. 1 to
ro's Despatoh No. 450,
11,1949.
-3-
6. At about 2330 hours, most of the mass left
: soene, but the information was reoeived from
I. houohi Police Station that there was fear that some
 hem might attack MPD Hq and the Marunouohi Polioe
S.lon. so the Guard Section issued orders to withdraw
c two companies from the soene in order to meet the
e cted omergenoy.
7. At about 2355 hours a group of demonstrators
( peruons) who nogleoted to report the demonstration
 h, urrived in front of the entranoe to the MPD Hq.
T. fuiled to enter the building because the entrance
w strongly cuarded, so they withdrew in the direotion
ol he Imporial Palace Plaza. The Guard Seotion reported
ti fuot at onee to the MPD Hq and at the same time
pi ared to control the denonstration.
8. At abuut 0010 hours (31 May 1949) five companies
of olioe had been mobilized, but no control was necessary
as he marchers had disbanded in front of the Imperial
Pu se. By this time no demonstrators were left outside
th.etropolitan Orfice, so the guard was dismissed.
9. Earlier 1 the evening, at about 2205 hours,
FA.T OTo, Kinji (. treet car conductor), age 25, who was
sa: to have been lowing his spirit in the haliway of
th hird floor of the Assenbly Hall, fell to the ground.
Le is taken to the hospital, but died soon after. The
ca. wes reported by the Marunouchi Police Station and is
un  investigation It was slso reported thattwo police-
me received incupacitatins injuries and fourteen other
po pe were injured in various parts of their bodies.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure No. 2 to Toky
Despatch No. 450 dated 
1949 from the Office of 
Political Adviser for
Tokyo, on the subjeot,
Action in Labor Demonstrations
of May 30-31, 1949.
(COPY)
MPD DAILY REPORT
FILE: Kei Ko Bi
31 May 1949
TO:
Whom it may concern
FROM:
Chief, Guard and Traffic Division, MPD
SUBJ:
Detaiis of the Meeting at Tokyo Metropolitan
Office to Demonstrate Opposition to Publio
Safety Ordinance Bill
Sirs:
We beg to report about the above meeting held
on May 31.
1. Date and time: 11:00 a.m. 0 4:00 p.m., May 31.
2. Sponsor: Federation of Tokyo Municipal Workers'
Unions (TO-ROREN)
3. Objective: Demonstrating opposition to Public
Safety Ordinance Bill.
4. Attendants: About 10,000 workers.
5. Details of the meeting: While the meeting was
scheduled as stated above, about 2,ooo members of
Federation of Tokyo Municipal Workers' Unions (TO-RoREN),
All-Japan Newspapermen Union (ZEN-SHIMBUN), All-Japan
Metal Industry Workers' Union (ZEN-KINZOKU), All-Japan
Pressmen Union (ZEN-INSATSU), General Federation of
Private Railroad Woriers' Union (SHITETSU-SOREN), All
Japan Government and Munioipal Workers' Union (ZEN-KANKO),
and Eleotrio Industry Workers' Union (DEN-SAn), asscmhled
about noon and held a meeting in considerably high spirits
to demonstrate their opposition to Publio Safety Ordinance
Bill and about the poor HASHIMOTO, Kinj1, of Tokyo
Street-car Workers' Union (TOko) injured to death at the
meeting held on May 30, and the meeting adjourned at 2:25
p.m. Some of the attendants who refused to disperse rushed
into a seotion where no traffic was permitted to inspeot
the soene of the above stated Hashimoto case, and provoked
the watchmen of the scene. In a sorummage formation they
started to sing the "International" in chorus, the rest
of the attendants set to demonstrate in the square of the
Metropolitan Office without previously reporting, and
as the circumstances gradually beceme confused the demon-
strators rushed to the Metropolitan Assembly Hall to
interfere with the assembly which was slated to be held
in the

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure no. 3 to
Tokyo's Despatoh no. 450,
July 11, 1949.
-2-
in the afternoon. The reinforoed demonstrators amounted
to about 3,000 at about 3:00 p.m. in a state of disorder.
6. Proolamation of adjournment, arrest and other
matters: At 4:l0 p.m. Chief of Marunouohi station
ordered all the demonstrators to be dispersed on the grounds
that suoh demonstration wi thout permission was illegal
nd that seriously disquieting state disturbed publio
peace end showed the proolamation written in big letters
to drive then away. But the disobedienoe of the demonstrators
and the more confused state of demonstration had the police
ohief disperse them by force, ordering his men and the
MPD reserve foroe to take aotion, and the polioe was
compelled to arrest some of the demonstrators who.
interfered with the execution of official business. About
4:50 p.m. all the demonstrators were dispersed and peace
was almost recovered.
7. Guard Action:
1. At 9:30 Marunouchi police authorities threw
its polioe cordon with 199 personnel of its own in
conformity with the experience in the last meeting and
various circumstances. And at 1l:0o a.m. a company of
reserve force was dispatched to respond to the request.
2. Around 1500 persons gathered at the
meeting place at 1l:30 a.m. However, there was a sign
that the participants were increasing in number, so,
three companies were dispatched in response to the request.
3. All members of each squad of the East and
South District were mobilized at 1l:30 a.m. to join
the Central District squad and prepared for emergency.
4. At 1l:30 a.m., an order was issued to
alert the day duty men of each police station, members
of the Guard and Traffic Division, the Criminal Affairs
Division and the Police Affairs Division to stand by
for emergency.
5. Anticipating mass arrest of participants,
the MPD Hqs. instructed the following police stations
to have cells available:
Marunouc hi
Takanawa
Kyobashi
Otsuka
Kojimachi
Azabu
Hisamatsu
Kuramae
Kanda
Akasaka
Manseibashi
Atago
Yotsuga
Tomisaka
Tsukiji
Kagurazaka
Motifuji
Mita
Nihonbashi
Waseda
6. At 3:00

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
Wholosure no. 8 to
Tokyo's Despatoh no. 450,
July 11, 1949.
-3-
6. At 3:00 p.m., four oompanies were dispatched
by the request of the police station.
7. Five companies were dispatohed again, because
the meeting plaoe was in an uproar at 3:30 p.m. and beoause
the oircumstanoes were thet it needed order for disbandment
at 4:00 p.m.
8. In view of the ciroumstances at that time,
MPD Hqs. gave inatructions to eaoh ohief of police stations
and told that all men on duty should wait for emergenoy
call.
9. At 4:40 p.m., the situation was known to
each ohief of polioe stations. At the same time, it
was anticipated that the rally partioipants who were
dispersing under the pressure of policemen who used
force, might launch a demonstretion maroh without
permit again, so the instructions were given regarding
the steps to be taken to control such movement.s
10. At 4:50 p.m., the instructions were given
to the following polioe stations to mobilize day-time
duty members to the middle court of MPD Hqs.
11. At 4:50 p.m. the above-mentioned day
time duty members were mobilized together at the
inner court of IPD Hqs. and prepare for emergency.
12. As all participants withdrew from the
meeting place et about 5:00 p.m., .PD Hqs. ordered each
police station to rake day-duty policemen who waited
for order back to each police station concerned and wait
for emergency at their own police stations.
13. At 9:30 p.m., the meeting place recovered
peace so,  PD Hqs. ordered each chief of police stations,
each member for emergency of the Guard and Traffic
Division, Criminal Affairs Division and the Police Affairs
Division to demobilize them and at the same time instructed
them to collect various information and to prepare for any
emergency call as the caution was still thought necessary.
14. At 9:30 p.m., EPD Hqs. dispatched one
company of the reserved corps to the Marunouchi Police
Station for emergency and made them stay there until
next day.
8. Number of persons arrested and the detention houses:
66 persons
Kojimachi (17 persons)
Marunouchi (15 persons)
Atago
(8 persons)
Azabu

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure no. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatoh no. 450,
July 11, 1949.
-4-
Azabu
(7 persons)
Mita
(5 persons)
Kanda
(14 persons)
9. Other iteme.
1. About 5:50 p.m., three hundred students
who withdrew from the above-mentioned Tokyo-to office
began to gather at the plaza in front of the Imperial
Palace and intended to hold a rally. Captain Burns of
the Tokyo MP Hqs. gave instruotion that the rally would
be inmodiately disbanded. This instruotirn was told soon
to the students, so they disbanded and no rally was held
there.
2. At 8:20 p.m., a rally was being held at the
Kanda Kyoritsu Auditorium by the National Communications
Workers' Union with 2,O00 persons attended. An informa-
tion was reoeived, then, that the participants would
maroh against the Tokyo-to office with the olose of the
rally, but no suoh action was seen and they dispersed
quietly.
3. Injured parsons among the policemen: Sixty-
six policemen were slightly injured as the demonstrators
did not obey the order for disbandment and as they
committed violence resisting against policemen.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.92)
Enclosure no. 3 to Desatoh
no. 450 dated July 11 1949
from the United Statel Politioal
Adviser for Jepan, Tokp, on
the subjeot "Police Acton in
Labor Demonstrations of May 30-3
1949".
(CCPY)
  NS    F   
AT TH TOKYO TROPOLITN OFFICE
(Press release or the okyo District Procurator's e)
6 June 1949
Concerning the death cese of Kinji HAsEDoTo
un employee of the Traffie ureau of the Tokyo Met poli
who was injured on the eve ins of 30 Lay 1949 in 1
compound of the Letropolit n Office, and died on 
same night. An  sertio uhit le was precipitated.
from the second or thira floor of the Metropoliter
sely
Bullding b olice oftisers wae being made. The 
Office found it necessar: to investigate the case
so, deemine the insdlent as a cese of bocily  y
resultine in leath by unknown suspeets, the prosecttion
authcrities mede efforts to clarify the aotuel fac of
che case in suen wey es sending a procurator on in
iate
night duty to th.e seene to hold an inquest over th
orpee
entrustins the Legal-l edi, i e Room of the tokyo t rsi ty
with the judgrent o? the cause of desta. Verifi
on
o the corpse cad scene was made by procurators
nd the state of the misht was heard from Pe pc
ersonnel, more than ifty perticipants  the
and
en other misoellanecus witnesses. As a peeul
atters
le clear to date weve s follows:
1. The cause of Has imoto's death  b/
ved
t. be internal heemorhee due to run.
]
but
t edic l examination lia not s o. the rin
of the
 cr. However as ftr es the coroner's in
6.nd
verificstlon of the corp were concerasd,
r was no
fracture or bone, no  of bruise, n
1
blcedimm, sto., which ul conmmonly believ.
take place
in she case of fall fro. height.
2. According to the state.ent aee jenitor,
two rocas cre on the t ird floor of e  ropolitan
Asseubly Fall on the side of the   ilaing here it was
said that Lashimoto had f llen. une room s pesupied
by the Aruble Land hit o the urm Lend Sction, and
the cther by the Tokye Tetropelitan Arable soeiution.
Roth lcors vere looked tis t tey, end nobo?
 found
to huve entered the reous.
3. Accoru1

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
nolosure no. 3 to
Despatoh no. 450,
July 11, 1949.
-2-
3. Aocording to the statements made,by witness
IKU, Juichi (olerk of the meeting for the Chairmen
of the Prefectural Assembly) and SUGaNUMA Tokuzo (police
o"ficer), nobody wes found to have entered the reoeption
r:om for Assembly Members which occupies the second floor
o the soneernod side of the building.
4. creover, tcooriin to the staterent ade by
TeYa Llroshi (o the Tokyo Letropolitan Trafrio Union),
ho was stunding on the window of the lavatory whioh is
sicuated in the first floor on the concerred side of the
Ill. Consequently, it is not ackuowledged that Hashimoto
fell from thls window.
5. The above Tcym., Is ImnkI Shigeru (Metropolitan
Te ehers Union), and IIYó, Kiiclhi (same union) made
statements enough to suspect that he might have fallen
from a high place, but they did not see the falling. Their
statement re nothing but to say that they touched
clothing I ing from above, or the posture of the sufferer
seemed like one which fell. However these statements
are not suifioient as testimony of a fall.
6. There is not evidence enough to testify the
fact that someone gave a severe blow or kick to Hashimoto's
right back or abdomen which would cause rupture of his
liver around the scene where he fell.
7. In consideration of the statements made by
ISIHalta Coro (Tokyo Metropolitan Traffic Union)
IYAO Kiichi (Tokyo Teachers Union)
ABE Seiichi (Police officer)
KATO Ichizo (Police officer)
URABE Isaku (Traffic Union)
HARUYAKA Kazuo (Traffic Union)
NOZAKI Hoji (Traffic Union)
IOSUGI Kan (Police Officer)
ai others, when the police tried to oust the mass of
people in the hall of the Metropolitan Assembly from
its back door, there occurred a hustle and ustle between
the pclice and people who tried to stay inaide or enter
from otuside. Just at this time Heshimote ell down on
the place about three meters westward fro. the back door
and such fact is acknowledged that he was trodden on by
many people before getting up. Conseguently it is guessed
that at this time his liver was ruptured together with
scratches on the face. It would have been impossible
for people to restrain from tranpling the :ufferer's body
in such confusion, end it is not acknowled ed that some
one person killed him by accident.
According to the above-mentioned reason, it is not
aclnowledged that the death of Hashimoto was caused by
some one's criminel act.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITED STAT OF A
Aotion Assigned to
es achni
Office of the United States
Political Adviser for Japan
Action Taken
Tolo13 1949.
No. 455
THEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Action
UNCLASSIFIED ce Symbol NA
JUL201949
REC D
JULY 18
1ricer
ATMENT OF STAT
to DC/R
ACTION
FE-enc
Subject: Japanese Opinion Poll concerning Basic Attitudes toward
Foreign Countries.
INFO
DCR
OLI-enc
POS-enc
S/S-enc
The Chargé d'Affaires ad interim has the honor to enclose
EUR
five copies of a report dated June 23, 1949, prepared by the
894.00/7-1349
Civil Information and Education Section of Headquarters on the
basis of a survey conducted by the Jiji News Agency. The survey
consisted of a nationwide sampling of opinion in which 8,000
adults were asked two direct questions: "What foreign country
do you like the most?" and "What foreign country do you dislike
the most?" America is according to the poll the country liked
J
most and Russia the country disliked most, in each case by a
substantial margin.
att'
Enclosure:
Five copies cf a report
dated June 23, 1949,
entitled "Basic Attitudes
toward Foreign Countries".
350
RBFinn:hh
Parchment mat to Department.
UNCLASSIFIED
2
er.
8312
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 455 dated July 13, 1949
subject: "Japanese Opinion Poll concerning Basic
Countries.
GENERAL HEADOUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER - FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
URVEY SHRIL
23 June 1949
BASIC ATTITUDES TO ARD
FOREIGN COUNTRIES
PUBLIC OPINION AND
SOCIOLOGICAL RESEARCH
DIVISION

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
FOREWORD
This report is an annlysis of the results
of two questions asked during a survey
conducted by the Jiji Nows Agency Public
Opinion Room. It is one of a s eries of
brief analyses of surveys conducted by
Japanese agencies of the attitudes of the
Japanese peopio tovard significent cur-
rent issues. Thoso analyses of surveys
conducted by Japanese public opinion
agencies do not constitute either an in-
dorsement of the agency or approval of
its findings.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
Basic Attitudes Toward Foreign Countrios
INTRODUCTION
During the first four days of May 1949, the Jiji News Agency Public
Opinion Room -- during the course of a survey on tax problems - asked a
nationwide sample of 8,Oll adults two direct questions: "What foreign
country do you like the most?" and "What foreign country do you dislike the
most?" This direct technique, although incapable of revealing nuances of
meaning, or of examining the assumptions upon which people made their se
lections, nevertheless did reveal a polarization of attitudes toward the
United States and the Soviet Union whiah is considered to be of considerable
significance.
Several limitations of the survey should be noted. First, the proper
interpretation of "like? was left up to the respondent. He could construe
it to mean "I would like to live in that country, " "I think that country has
a good government, a fine way of life, an ideologically sound political
organizetion, or a commendable forcign policy, " "I liko the people and the
culturo of that country," etc. Similar intorprotations could be mado for
"dislike" as woll.
Secondly, respondents were not offercd the opportunity to statc second
choices. If this had boen done, a. moro accurato interpretation might have
been made of some of the first choices. Third, the facts that the survey
was conducted in a country under American cccupation, and that outstanding
and fundamental differences in viowpoints oxist betwoon the U.S. and the
U.S.S.R. undoubtedly had some influonco over the selection of favored and
nonfavorod foreign countries. Somo persons who likod Russia might have
hositated to say so oponly to an intorviewer, and the same (or other) per-
sons might similarly have reen disinclinod to state a dislike for the United
States. However, even if (as noted bolow) tho porcontages liking America
and disliking Russia are taken as maximum and minimum figures, respcctively,
they indicate a very substantial amount of favorablo public opinion toward
America, and, indirectly, theyprovido a usoful index of the success of tho
Occupation in fostcring an interost in and an approval of democracy and the
domocratic way of life.
1. Seo APPENuIx for an uxpl n tien or t! is nunb r nu  brief lescription
of tho sampling method used.
2. Suki -- to liko
3. Kirau -- to dislike

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
FINDINGS
A majority of the Japancso poople
like America and dislike Russia
Sixty-two percent of all respondents stated that thoy liked America
moro than any other foroign country, and 53 percent that they disliked
Russia more than any other. Other countries wore mentioned as boing either
liked or disliked by rolatively small porcentages.
It should bo noted that because of the dynamics of the testing situation
(sec Introduction), the porcentages favoring America and disliking Russia
are probably maximum figures, whilo the percentages disliking Amcrica and
favoring Russia are pr bably minimum figures. Furthermore, some of tho
relatively large mumber of peoplc who stated that they disliked no country
(34 percent) might have given this answer because of a disinclination to
state a dislike for America.
Quostion: What foreign country do you like the most?
Amorica
62
Great Britain
4
Switzorland
2
France
1
China
1
Russia
1
Others
3
Nono
26
100
Yumber of
respondonts: 8,oll

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
SURVEY SERIES
Questiont What foreign country do you-dislike the moet?
Ruesia
53%
China
7
Korea
3
America
1
Great Britain
1
Others
1
None
34
100%
Number of
respondents: 8,011
Poople who like eithcr America or
Russia tend to dislike tho other
There is a very high degree of correlation betwoen liking America and
disliking Russia, and betweer liking Russia and disliking America. Of the
small number of pooplo whc liked Russia, however, tho percentage who stated
that they disliked no country was double the percentago who disliked no
country and liked America, which suggosts again that somo Japaneso are re-
luctant to stete a dislike for America. The small number of cases involved
(85) makes these percentages subject to a rathor large margin of orror.
Countrics
Countries likod
disliked
America
Russia
Amorica
X
30%
Great Britain
8*%
2
Russia
68
x
France
0*
2
China
8
21
Others
4
4
Nono
20
41
100%
100%
Number of
Number of
rospondents: 5,003 respondente: 85
* Loss than .5 percent

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
Basic Attitudes Toward. Forelen Count
People who liko Groat Britain, France.
and China also tend to diglike Russia
In addition to the corrolations noted above, there is a substantial
corrolation botweon liking Great Britain, France, and China, and dialikings
Russia. Although only a small number of rospondents stated that they like
Groat Britain more than any other foreign country (four percont), 61 porcont
of this group disliked Russia. Tho rosponses of people liking China are
more ovenly divided with respect to dislikes, ae thc interviowers did not
note whether preferences were for Nationalist or Communist China. However,
givon the assumption that perscns liking Nationalist China would tend to
dislike Russia, and its corollary, that persons liking Communist China would
tend to dislike Amorica, tho correlations shown below suggest that tho prof-
erence for Nationalist China is thrice that of the preferenco for Comminist
China. However, tho relatively large porcantage of peoplo liking China and
disliking no country (32 porcent) suggests again a disinclination to state
a disliko for America. The smell numbor of cases involved (108) makes theso
porcentages subject to a rather large margin of error.
Countries
Countrics liked
digliked
Great Britain
Franco
China
America
1%
8%
12%
Creat Britain
X
1
7
Russia
61
49
36
Franco
1
X
2
China
14
10
X
Others
5
10
11
. one
18
22
32
100%
100%
100%
No. of ro-
No. of re-
No. of re-
spondents: 286
spondents: 112
spondents: 108
Thero are some differenccs in attitude
betweon v-rious groups in the popul tion
In addition to the findings noted above, it was alco found that in com-
parison with tho cntire popul tion:
Older mon and women tended to state more often that they
liked America and dislik-d Russie.
Older women tended to state more often that they liked
or disliked no country.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.94)
Survey Seriee
A180:
Higher porcentages of farmers, fishermen, businessmen, and
managers than housewives and the nonemployed liked
America and disliked Russia.
Higher percentages of men than women liked America and
disliked Russia.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.95)
Question: hat foreign country do you dislike the most?
Great
Number of
Category
Russia
China
Korea
America
Britain
Others
None
Total
respondents
TOTAL
535 (00)
7
3
1
1
1
34
100%
0,001
Urban
54(77)
8
1.
2
1
1
30
100%
2,923
Rural
52%(80)
7
3
1
1
1
35
100%
5,088
By sex and age
en, 21–30
57%(78)
9
3
2
1
7
27
100%
965
en, 31-40
533 (79)
2
7
1
29
100%
1,009
Men, 41-50
600(61)
7
L
1
1
1
26
100%
1,052
Yen, over 50
613(00)
5
1
0÷
0÷
31
100%
1,226
Total men
59 (2)
7
3
1
1
1
28
100%
4,253
omen, 21-30
52% (76)
12
2
1
1
0÷
32
100%
1,051
onen, 31-40
42% (71.)
9
C
1
1
1
43
100%
872
omen, 41-50
403 (73)
S
i
1
0
0*
45
100%
577
omen, over 50
30(4)
5
2
0÷
0
0÷
55
100%
1,148
Total
vomen
497 (77)
9
3
1
0÷
0%
44
100%
3,758
By occupation
Farming, forestry,
55% (85)
6
2
1
1
0÷
35
100%
1,558
fishing
Business ormers
50%(82)
6
4
1
1
1
27
100%
1,561
and managers
Salaried workers and
56%(79)
7
2
1
1
29
100%
2,241
profescionals
Housewives and
46%(77)
9
3
1
0*
1
40
100%
2,651
nonemployed
The fi ures in parentheses represent the percentage of all respondents giving a positive 
who stated "Russia." It vas calculated by excluding the "none" responses.
Less than 0.5 percent.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
Quastion: hat foreign country do you like the most?
Creet
Swite-
Number of
Category
merica
Britain
erlend
France
China
Russia
Others
None
Total
respondents
TOLLL
62% (84)
4
2
1
1
1
3
26
100%
8,001
Uroan
615 (00)
5
3
2
1
1
3
24
100%
2,923
Rural
63% (06)
2
1...
1
1
2
27
100%
5,080
Br sex and age
en, 21-30
60%(77)
3
4
2
1
4
4
22
100%
966
en, 31-40
63% (78)
5
14
1
2
2
4
19
100%
1;009
Len, 41-50
5710 (04)
5
2
1
2
1
2
20
100%
1,052
Ien, over 50
67% (88)
L
1
1
1
0%
2
24
100%
1,226
Total men
66%(84)
2
1
2
1
3
21
100%
4,253
.omen, 21-30
63%(80)
l4
1
14
1
1
2
21
100%
1,051
"omen, 31-40
50%(S5)
2
1
3
1
1
2
32
1003
872
Tomen, 41-50
573 (09)
C
1
1
0÷
0÷
2
36
100%
877
omen, over 50
50%(93)
1
7
0÷
1
0÷
1
14.5
100%
1,143
Total women
575 (85)
2
2
2
1
1
2
33
100%
3,758
By occunation
Farming, forestry,
67%(91)
2
1
0÷
1
3
26
100%
1,558
fishing
Jusiness owners
65%(C1)
5
3
1
2
1
3
20
100%
1,561
and managers
Salaried workers
613(78)
5
3
2
2
2
3
22
100%
2,241
and professionals
Housewives and
50%(84)
3
2
2
1
1
2
31
100%
nonemployed
# The figures in parentheses represent the percentage of all respondents giving a positive anr
stated "America." It was caculated by excluding the "none" responses.
*
Less than 0.5 pereent.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
ATTENDIX
The Survey Mothod
A total of 5,998 respondents were interviewed during the period
1-4 May 1949. The sample was dravn from those porsons in the Japanese
population over 20 years of age, and is a cross section of that group.
Since rural areas are so large, adequate sampling can be obtained by
using fewer cases than is possible in urban areas. Therefore, the ratios
used wero one respcndent to every 5,000 persons of this age group in citiea
and one responient to every 10,000 persons in rural areas. The number of
interviows mado in rural areas was not in proportion to tho population of
Japan, so a standard statistical weighting system was usod. The woighted
sample numbered 8,0ll, nd ali rofernces to "nuabor of respondents" in
the text of this analysis refer to the weighted sample.
The sample wes construeted by using the "1948 Ration Ledger Census
of Nonmigrant Persons" as a baso. The area-random-sampling-method was
utilized in selocting respondents. A total of 3l6 sample points was used:
124 cities (including Tokyo), 86 tovms, and 106 villages.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
CURRENT JAPANESE PUBLIC OPINION SURVEYS
Attitudes of Tokyo Residents toward the Ashida Cabinet
29 May 1948
Attitudes in Kyoto toward Coeducation in the New Lower
Secondary Schools
5 June 1948
Attitudes toward tho Ashida Cabinet and Rolated Political
Matters
12 June 1948
Attitudes of Union Members in tho Tokyo Area
28 Juno 1948
Attitudes in Osakn toward Current Political Problems
30 June 1948
Attitudes in Tokyo toward the Nev Lower Secondnry Schools
17 July 1948
A National Survey of Attitudes toward the Ashida Cabinet
9 August 1948
Attitudes of Tokyo and Kyoto Residonts toard Strikes of
Government Workers
10 August 1948
Attitudes of Osaka Consumers tovard Vegetable Rationing
11 August 1948
Attitudes in the Knnsai District tovard Democrctization
of Securities
26 August 1948
Attitudes toward the Inflation Froblem
3 September 1948
Attitudes toward the Emperor System
18 September 1948
Attitudes toward Higher Denomination Currency
21 September 1948
Attitudes of Resettlers toverd the Land Reclamation
Program
27 September 1948
Attitudes on th:e Jemocratization of Japan
25October 1948
Japanese Reactions in an International Survey
11 January 1949
Politicnl Trends Through October 1948
11 January 1949
Attitudes of the Urban Consumer toward Food Problems
19 February 1949
Urban Consumer Froblems: liousing, Clothing, Sanitation,.
and Medical Care
17 March 1949
SURVEY SERIES
Some Aspects of the Fishery Right System in Selected
Japnese Fishing Communities
November 1948
Reactions to a Traffic Safety Weok Leaflet
22 January 1949
Attitudestoward the Labor Movement
31 January 1949
Problems of Working Women in Tokyo
26 March 1949
4ttitudes of Farmers tovard Rural Problems
20 May 1949
Basic Attitudos towara Forcign Countries
23 June 1949

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTION
N2 10 18
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
on Taken
[Shoorn To Mh. Rusk]
United
sRolitical Adviser
for Ja
DC/R
tion
Tokyo, Jy19; 1949.
9 Symbol N/A
No. 467
nodist B
SECRET (For Department Use Only)
not Phocumed
Subject:
: Threats Against the Lives of General Machrthur and Prime
Hinister Yoshids.
011.221
The Eonorable
Secretory of S tate,
Washington.
Sir:
894.00/7-1949
I have the honer to report that I nave learned on the best
possible authority that Lientenent Jol nel C. C. CANADA, General
MacanTEUR's physician, wos a few dats sgo under urgent instructions
from Generel Macarthur to obtein inmediately samples of Prime Minister
YOSHIDa's blood in prepara lion for possible transfusions in the case
of an attack on the Prime Minister's life. The Prime Minister has
recently reccived so mamy threetening letters in connection with
current personnel reductios and labor unrest (pleese see my confidential
despatch no. 45l of July 11, l94) that tese extreordinary measures
vore considered desirable.
The same source st tee that, as  result of threets received by
Gencral Mecarthur, he was urged ly his advisors to double or treble
his escort, but has menirested his disdr in for personal danger of
this sort y climinatiny entirely the escort which les heretofore
accopani-d him on his deily trips betveew bis residence end office.
ut
3
nespectfully yours,
BRANCH
L
Ceenunmtumu
C
R
SECRET FILE
5
Cloyce K. Hus ton
Cherge d'affcires ad interim
L:J
R
S C40
SkEus ten: and
In triplicrte to the Deportment
SHOkET (For Deperteent Use Unly)
Q1312

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.93)
REC 'D
ADG 17
for Jer
ACTION
No. 530
Tokyo, August5,
FE
CONFIDENTIAL
INFO
FR
DCR
OLI
ITP@
Subject: Rccent Developont: in the Democratization Leagu
EUR/X
The u ing Lolivical mdvicer has the honor to
ALDEN
transmit a memorandu prepared by Irs
June 15, 1949  concerning recert dey
ats in the
Democratizatlon League (iinghu 
mei, or Mindo
The League was crganiza in 1947 within the National
Congress of Industria! Urtons by union leeders who were
opposed to comunist omination of the NCIU and the
authoritarian manner of omunist control. A number of
former Colmunist Perty members have joined the League,
and its activities since tne generel election of
January 25, 1s49, have becoms more esgressive. The
League appears to be the only non-comaunist element in
the labor movement  hich is capable of combatting the
Communists on their own grouni and with their own choice
of weepons.
Since the last general eleccior the League has become
closely sfrilisted with she Sociclist Party. Mindo elements
gave a consilerable disrlay of strength and influence at
the last congrece c:  so i 1is Party (Merch 15-17, 1949)
as a result or viie  or n uhieved a much larger voice
lesmatch ho. 242 of
in party effuirr 
April s1. 19:9)
While the Denocrasizntier tes cue has cained remarkably
in strenst since the fire: p'e year, its leadership
spparently pealizes its lil.talens. Except in a few
unions, the League joss net ag ret heve a commanding
na its cloes rrinatics witt the Socialist
posit
t. The
Party is still in une neture ar vn exy
League hopes to take over evens ly the leadership of
the Soeisllets aad mould s prp nto a real labor
party, uu Mindo is Geter ined vos to be used by the
Soc lalles Party as en seeoey
the party a convenient
smunist sectors of the
new besis for wupunet a th
labor lovment
whe lore sr beco e afriliated with
the Soei lint Paray pri r pipr hee use it is the only party it
FILED
FAP
can
22V
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.90)
CONFIDENTIAL
be to convest into a true labor party. If this
r siment  ils, the only pomeining alternative would be
c autempt to orgnize another labor party. The preferable
Moice, however, is o take ever an already-established
organization.
It is too euriy to tesor ine how successfully the
ls peratization League will operste as a propellant
orre within the Soeialiet Party Mindo's record to
iste in the laber movenent however Indicates that its
a Lave a lynamie. asgrwesive oharecter which has
wre prore been conspiouously tacking cutside the comsunis
Recent Developments in the
De: locratiza tion League. a
emorandun prepared by Jane M
Alden June 15 1949
Faretmeat Mas to Derartment
Giaw
COYTEDENTLAL

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.78)
RESTRICTED
Devslcpments 3n
Legue
she Memeevetization
TE
L.
 ceri zation
bweu Lrsreasingly
vo etcntfied
obivity
Cae affilia-
Sear laot furty, the
fors trou the
 (usbotsu) and
hrooo still wi thin
 hi leant develop-
Jou tel Lse Paroy and
in e trade
 r
po aereisedjby
The growth
 arly 1949
 on 
10 1040 Sanbeusu
lesst
eli

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRIOTED
bloc within the lccal unicn but its adherents remain
members of the local. Theie is no formal Mindo prgem
tion on this level apart fro the local union and Mindo
collects no dues fron its affiliates. The object of the
Mindo group in the local union is to  ain a sufficient
number of adherents to take over control of the loeal.
After this is accomplished the Mindo-controlled locel
inions attempt to gain ccntrol over ure national headquartere
of the union and to withdraw the entire union from the
Sanbetsu, Mindo has been reletively successful in
avoiding splits between Mindo groups and local union
leaaership, except in cases Where a aispute issue has forccd
the indo roup to withdraw and cet up a rival local, thus
sacrificing the advantages of capturing the entire member-
shir of the locel. In the recent convention the Japenese
Express Workers Union (Mittsu) the Mindo leadership was
dofeated on the vote to withdraw
from Sanbetsu
 a vote of 175 to l60. Following the convention
the Mindo lesders of the Kansai, Chugoku and Shikoku regionsI
federations of Nittsu met to decide vhether these resions
wouli withdraw from Nittsu or whether they would remein
within the national unlon snd a ttempt to win over the
elcire union. Presont indications are that these leulers
have decided not to withdraw from Mittsu but to coll a
speci l Hittsu convention in July for the purpose of ra-  -
miutinr tre resolution to vithdraw from Sanbetsu. Tho
Mindo leaders think that by July they say be in a positin.
to c. rry the speoial convention ana brins ebout the witr-
aval of the entire union from Janbetsu.
In ceneral, Lindo leaders have shcwn a remac able
villinghess to defer any attempt to split off from locel
cnd nctional unions until such tie ss they can c rry the
ulk of the union membership with tiem, unlese, of eourse,
viretistances force tieir hsnd. This roliey has essured
che Tindo houps the t when they do wi thdrew feom the
no bioncl union they a re sufficiently strony to s tani
s tn independent union until such ti e as they can joi.
with otiler Lindo-led unions in a nationel federstion.
Thile the Mindo move ent was st uruea wi shin  steu-
aerilicted unicns it has spread in recert months so
independent uniens, both looel sna na sional Whea a
Lindo federation is or unized it Ls anticirutei thst co.
of these i dependent unions vill Join tne federauion.
indo in Osska.
Cseka has been one of the prineipal centers of she
Mindo move ent and at the present tine the activitiss
of Lindo are coordinated by the Osta esional De.o  ii-
tien Le  jue or Lator nions. hls Les ue includes sot
only t e Csike indo leaders but also reyresentatives of
the Ju an Jeder tion or Tabor (So to ei). (i list o?
the lesaers of this Leugue is attached). The Lindo le. lers
in Os a are emperiemcea in trade nion werk, ana my
of the cr well versed in Jonmunist teshniques of
orgenication.
RLSEOED

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
All of the tinao  aders ers active in their respeotive
unions, in contrast to some vupanese labor leaders who
have l since raduated to positions far removed from
actual trade union work. For the most part these Mindo
leaders are products of  st-war period, in so far as
assuming positions of responsibility is concerned, and
they have had little if eny experieree in politics. They
represent therefore primarily the interest of the trade
union movement, perhaps in its narrower sense. They take
the position, however, thot the growth of a healthy, and
politically conscious union movement will contribute to the
natural welfare, although they are concerned first and fore-
most with the roblems of labor.
The Sanbetsu affiliated unions in Osaka had a member-
ship of about 70,000 as of December 1948. The National
Communications orkers Unnon (Zentei) with about 20,000
members is the nucleus of Sanbetsu in this area. About
3,O0o of the Zentei members are aIso members of Mindo,
according to ITsi Jinsuke, the leader of Mindo in
Zentei. mitsumura also pointed out that in addition to
this Mindo group within Zentei, a number of locals in
Osaka have recently withdrawn from Zentei, although they
have no yet joined Mindo.
Another important union rormerly affiliated with
Sanbetsu and now in the Mindo roup is the Railway Rolling
Stock Workers Union (Sharyo Kumai) led by HIRAYAivA Haruo.
Sharyo was formed as a result of a split in Kinzoku,
a sanbetsu affiliated amelganated metal workers union.
At the time Kinzoku was formed, by the amalgamation of
three industrial unions, 8,O00 members left Kinzoku
and formed Sharyo under indo leadership. The Osaka
branch or Nittsu is controlled by Mindo leaders
 Hi.s
iroin present plans to bring about one
withdrawal of Hittsu from Sanbetsu.
Two of tre large Csaka unions affiliated with the
national chemical union of Sanbetsu have recently with-
drawn from the nationnl unioa. Une or these locals is
now affiliated with indo.
In addition, to the Sanbetsu-aifiliated unions,
Mindo has made considerable progress within independent
unions in Oseka. The Hansai Federstion of Private Railway
Workers Unions, with 50, 0o0 members has a Mindo roup of
15, o00. In this union the neme mindo is not used, instead
the roup comparable to mindo is c Iled the League for
Protection of Union Autonomy. The resson benind the use
of a different name for the minde prop in tais union
apparently s tems from the ion's uesire not to commi
itself to joining any federation, but its lesder,
YAmAtUchI Jotaro is cooperating With indo leaders.
In he
RESTRICTED

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
In the coming elec ion of union officers in the zeyido
it is expected that 65 to 70% of the newly eleoted
officers will be from the League, 10 to 15% wil1 be Comiun
or Conunist inclined and lo to ls% will be neutrals.
The Osake Cherter of the Seamen!s Union with 6,O00
to 7,O00 members is controlled by Miado. The Osaka
Federation of Self-Govern ent Organizations with 20,o0o
members has a Lindo group of 14, 000 to 15,000 members.
Mindo also clains 40, of the 8,0o0 members of the Osaka
Municipal Employees Union while the remaining membership
in this union is divided between opponents of Mindo and
neutrals.
There are 84,O00 meabers of the Government Railway
Horkers Union (Kokutetsu) in Osaka, who are about equally
divided anong indo adherents, communists and ne trals.
In the 
Vorkers Union in Csaka Mindo has not made
any
 and shis union continues to be under the
influence of the Coaunists who form the only organized
group wi thin the union.
indo Affiliation with the Socialist Party in Osaka.
Since the general election a nuiber of indo leaders
in Osaka have
1 tre Socialist Party. These leaders
state quite frankly that it is their intention to reconstruct
the party as a representative of the non-comunist labor
movement in politics, and that they. are oprosed to the
domination of the unions by the Socialist Party. This
deternination to have a political voice is especially
strong amonc the Iindo leaders of unions, such as Zentei,
that fall under the provisions of the National Public Service
Law which deny to governient vorkers' unions the rights
of collective bargsining. Cn the cther hand, there are
Mindo leaders in Osaka who have not joined the Socialist
Party. Some of these leaders are oprosed in principle
to the linking of their unions with any political party,
end oth rs are veluctant to enter into eny relationship
with the Sociclists which  ight leed to party domination
ofthe union.
Che attitude of Mindo leaders toward political perty-
labor union relations is understenduble in view of the
faot that some of the  indo leaders are former Con unists,
and that all of them have had emperience in Comaunist
Party ccntrolled labor unions. The majority of these
leaiers are aware of the benefits th't can be obtained by
labor through political action, but they are also aware
of the disadvanta es from the union point of view if a
political party controls the union mnd subverts union
interests to broader consideraticns of Larty politics and
other interested groups. The Mindo leaders in Osaka
also view the Socialist party with considerable skepticism.
They have joined the party because it is virtually the.
only party they cen hope to convert into a laoor party.
Their only oti er alternctive is to or unize a new party
of their own hici would mean that they would be confronted
simultaneously
RESTRICTED

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
simulteneously wi pha or anizational probiema
federation and a political purty. In additiorf
leadership, at least in Osaka, does not incruda
individuals with surficient practical experiendevintt
political field t oranize a major party and of o
any newly-organize: indo political party would not have
representation in the present House of Representatives
Mindc liation vith the Socialists is therefore largely
a matter of expediency. They are well aware of the taot
that within the Socialist Party in Osaka they will be
competing for party leadershio vith a strong, well entrenohed
right-wing element which will resist any inroads on its
leadership.
The Socialist Farty on he other hand is preoccupied
at the present time with reblilding its strength in Osaka.
The Mindo movement is the best and quickest means to this
end and the Socialists neve peen careful to refrain from
antagonizing Lindo lesders by raisins the issue of party
vs. union. Discussions wit: Socialist Party leaders
did bring out the point that tie party leaders are not
contemplating the dominations of the Osaka branch of the party
by the labor elements. These party leaders pointed out
that the Socialist Party in Osaka is comrosed not only
of represehtatives f labor but also of farmers, small
businessmen and the intelli entsia; and it is their'belief
that these various elements can share party leadership.
The real test of this will come when there is a clash of
interests among the components of the leadership group.
Mindo leaders at the present time seem determined not to
permit labor's interests to be subverted within the
Socialist Party, and have indicated that if this does not
happen the Mindo group will withdraw from the Party.
National Council of Labor Lnions.
The National Council of Labor tnions (Zenro Kaigi)
was organized by the leaders of Sanbetsu Mindo, Kokutetsu
Mindo and the left-wing leaders of the Sodomei. Leaders
of independent national unions have expressed an interest
in Zenro Kaigi and have from time to time participated
in its meetings, but to dete these leaders have been.
reluctant to officielly join the orgnization.
ZenroKaigi is comparable to the National Liaison
Council of Labor Unions (Zenroren), the comunist-
controlled council composed of sanbetsu and independent
national unions such as Kokutetsu. reniing the organization
of the Mindo unions into a federation which will be
comparable to Sodomei, the plans Tor tne formal organization
of Zenro Kaigi have not gone uch beyond the paper stage.
Until the present time neither the Socialist Party
nor the right vwing of the Sodomei have taken uch interest
in the Zenro Laigi and the leadership cf Zenro Kaigi
will
ESTRICTED

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
-6~
will oppose any attempts by the Socialists to dominate
the Council. Although the organization of Zenro Kaigi
is still in a formative stage, it is a potential field
of conflict between the Sodomei and the Mindo federation
on the one hand, and between the leaders of these two
federations and the Socialist Party on the other.
The Mindo unions will te organized into an industrial
labor federation whose leaders will be affiliated with
the Socialist Party. Within the party Mindo will be
associated with left-wing party leaders which will strengthen
this group vis-a-vis the right wing of the party. Sodomei
is also an industrial labor federation with close tles to
the Socialist Farty but Sodomei is divided between right
and left wing factions of which the right wing appears.
to be stronger. To date the leaders of Mindo and Sodomei
have cooperated with each other and Mindo has refrained
from working within Sodomei unions. In the formation of
Zenro Kaigi the two federations will be in direct competition
for Teadership of the Council and this competition will.
be accentuated if Sodomei is controlled by its right wing.
If the right wing in Sodomei succeeds in dominating that
federation it is possible that not only the Sodomei but
also the Socialist Party will split and the left wing of
both party and federation would join with Mindo to form
a new political group. Lindo leaders estimate now that
this situation will not come to a head for about a year.
Meanwhile, Mindo, working with the left-wing of the Sodomei,
will attempt to reconstruct the Socialist Party as a
political instrument of. the non-communist. labor movement
using the same tactics of working from within therparty
organization as they are"now using within the labd unions.
anem. aldin
Ja..e M。Alden

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.92)
Leaders of the Os n Region Decocratization Lea
of Labor Unions.
Chairian:
ideo (Government RaiIway
kers Union)
Vice Chairuan:
C (Jpan Seamen's Union)
Iisaburo(Japan Federation
of Lubor)
S  I shi co (Japan Federation of
xecutive Comittee: T
yeieni (Japan Aluminum Worker
n
  ivosni (National Federatica
. Texsile Vorkers Unions)
oycs (Osaka Municipal Office
or rs Phicn)
 KikuPiro (Osaka Transporta-
tipn or'ers Union)

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.95)
DATE: August
TO
: NA - Mr. B
Office 01
FAR EASTERN ATIRS
AUG 9-199
SUBJECT: Tokyo'6 451 of July 11, 1949
DIRECT
Departmentotate
Mr. Spinks commente on the current gommunist danger
in Japan. The Japanese no longer doubt that the seriee
Central
OC/R
of violent episodes (inoluding Railway President Shimoya
presumed murder) is Communist organized and directed. Th
194.008
JCP is believed to haye postponed any plans for an all-out
general strike but to provokecontinuous local incidents
on a wide front, the acoumulated effect of which has
already led to more uncertainty and tension than has
hitherto been experienced under the occupation. The
railway workers suffering mass lay-offs have been the
focue of JCP effort, with the local police often incapable
6
of handling the organized Communists, as at Taira on June 30.
0078
The objective of JCP promotion of violent outbursts
may well be to provoke SCAP and the Japanese Government
to take coercive mcaeures to restore order, measures whi
will then be exploited by the JCP as evidence that SCAP
abusing the rights of the Japanese people. However, ther
6
is already a noteworthy moral revulsion in many Japanese
49
quarters against the violence employed by the Communists,
especially the assassination of Shimoyama.
S
1
E
An
Rev.
FE:NA:MGreen:clh

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.91)
DIVISION OF
MC
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPHBRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
NA
11
Action Assigned to
noaction
PLAIN
C CIVISION OF
Action Taken
Action:
FE
Office of
Info:
FAR EASTERN AFFNBRTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
P
101949
Centrot-3899
AUG1C1949
SAM
gINBeteR
EUR
Department of Biaty
2A49
OLI
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CTA
POS
Name of Officer
FROM:
MOSSON
PA
Direction to DC/R
DCR
Searesary of State
TC:
205
AUGUED NO
TavrmlA Auguor ? prlnts eltrd corumn Ponyane Tass diapatch
Layins repores cri g nstion Jepan phow Hoohide governoent's
Miesaaion simears rmrdered by Co amuniste is provece
cacn : inoo he dr iven suieide by feeling guilt For
894.00/8-1049
nees patroed diemlnsels.
sent pepartma), repeated Polry ?
KIRK
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.96)
THE POREON SMES
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMSRRA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
No。 549
xecenny. Tile.
CONFIDENTIAL
REC 'D
J. sted.
AUG 22
ACTION
FE
Subjeot: Factions in the Democratic Liberal Party.
INFO
DCR
OLI
s/s
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
1
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to transmit a copy of a memorandum
8
C
en itled "Factions in the Democratic Liberal Party"
6
prupared by Mrs. Jane M. ALDEN, and dated June 15, 1949,
4.
at that time on temporary assignment to this Mission from
the Department. Transmission of the memorandum has been
8
delayed due to pressure of work upon this Mission's
stenographic personnel.
00
The information in this memorandum and the appended
list of Democratic Liberal members of the House of
Representatives indicating affiliation with intra-party
faotions were secured from a reliable Japanese source
49
olose to the Demooretic Liberel Party. Due to the
intangible character of fcctional affiliation as
contrasted with party membership, it is necessary,
however, to allow for some inaccuracies of classification.
Two signifioant points stand out from the enolosed
momorandun. In spite of the rather sharp factional
alignmonte within the Demooratio Liberal Party and the
friotion this situation engenders, Prime Minister YOSHIDA
eru has continued to strengthen his position; and,
secondly the power of the political bosses within the
party has considerubly declined. The success of the
Prime Minister, who is not a professional politician, in
strengthening his hold over the party whioh, by virtue
of ite commanding majority as a result of the last general
electior
of ruther unwioldly character, is the more
re mrable in view of the necessity to compromise the
 oampaign promines in formulating a balanced budget.
The
FAP
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch no. 549,
August 11, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
The rise of the Yoshida Faction, concomitant with
the aecline of the other party factions, is tending
to . attention to the problem of Mr. Yoshida's
eventual successor as head of the Democratic Liberal
Party. In replacing old-line politicians, ome of whom
have had potentialities for party leadership, Mr. Yoshida
has brought into the party large numbers of new men many
of whom at present lack sufficient political experience
to qualify for effective party leadership. This situation
might lead to difficult complioations if Mr. Toshida were
forced to withdraw for health or other reasons. In view.
of the Prime Minister's advanced age and several recent
illnesses such possibilities are creating some concern
and speculation in political circles.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
att
Enclosure:
Memorandun dated June 15, 1949,
"Factions in the Democratio
Liberal Party", by Jane M. Alden.
Parohment Mat to Department.
350.1
CNSpinks:nhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
deted August 11, 194gifmm
United States PoliticalAd
for Japan, Tokyo, on the
"Factions in the Demoeratio Li
CONFIDENTIAL
Party"
MEMORANDUM
June 15, 1949.
Subject: Factions in the Demooratio Liberal Party
Attached is a list of Democratic Party (DLP members
of the House of Representatives indicating affiliation
with the intra-party factions as of May 1, 1949 and previous
factional affiliations in cases where shifts have been
made since March 31, 1949. This list was oompiled by a
reliable Japanese source close to the Demooratic Liberal
Party. It should be borne in mind, however, that any
listing of fcctional affiliations is subject to some.
inaccuracies arising out of the intangible oharaoter of
factional affiliations as contrasted to party membership.
This list of the members of the various intra-party
factions in the DIP indicates. two significant develop-
ments. First, Prime Minister YOSHIDA Shigeru is continuing
to strengthen his position within the party despite the
fact that he has been forced to compromise the party's
campaign promises in formulating a balanoed budget.
Secondly, the power of the politioal bosses in the party
is rapidiy dwindling to insignifioant oppositions. There
remain within the party dissident factions opposed for
various reaons to Yoshida, but these opposition factions
are losing adherents and their positions have been con-
siderably weakened.
This situation is further borne out by the feot that
opposition within the DLP to the inolusion of Mr: IUKAI
Ken and his Demooratic Party faotion in the DLP has been
defeated and there appeurs to be little possibility that
the inolusion of Inukai in the DLP will have any serious
consequenoes on party unity. Yoshida, who has consistently
supported the Inukai merger against strong opposition
within his own party, hes finally won out. Furthermore,
he has suoceeded in obtaining his party's approval to the
proposal that the Mshida faotion of the Demooratio Party
be invited to join the DLP. This invitation was e: nded
not to Mr. Ashida, who is temporarily inaotive pending
the sottlement of his indiotment, but to Mr. TOMABECHI
Gizo the present leader of the Ashida faotion.
The inoret ing strength of Yoshida within the DLP
in turn raises two problems of oonsiderable importance
to the party in the future. Will Yoshida sucoeed in
developing new political leaders from among the ranks
of his party, and secondly, who will succeed Yoshida
as president of the party? Yoshida has been foroed to
gather around him men who re relatively new to politios,
although these men in most istances have had oonsiderable
experience in government service or in business. In this
sense Yoshida is bringing to the fore men new to party
politios to replace the longtime politicians who have
attempted
CONF IDENTIAL

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure to Tokyo's
549, August 11, 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
attempted to oontinue their hold on the party either
directly or through their proteges. The problem of who
will succeed Yoshida as leader of the party, especially
if in the near future he should be unable to continuo
actively in the party, is more than a question of the
development of new leadership. Although there is within
the party a number of able men who are potential party
leaders, there appears at this time to be no suitable
candidate who could qualify in terms of political
experience or ability and who at the same time has
sufficient political power to maintain party unity.
Although Yoshide has succeeded in dominating the party
and reducing the power of the opposition factions, his
removal from the leadership of the party would be a
signal for the recons titution of many of the factional
groups that are now relatively impotent. If, on the
other hand, Yoshida continues as party leader for two
or three years he would probably be able to develop a
core of new experienced leadership capable of taking
over the party.
The Yoshida Faction
At the present time this faction consists of about
eighty-six members, as compared to twenty members prior
to March 31, 1949. In addition to this core of close
and fairly reliable supporters, Yoshida still draws
considerable support from the so-called neutral members
of the party, who remain outside factional groups primarily
because they a re new to party politios. The new members
of the Yoshida group ha ve ocme from all of the other
factions, but primarily from the neutral group and from
the Ono and Shidehara factions.
The adherenoe of former neutrals to the Yoshida
Faction is not in itself of any special signifioance.
These members were either newly elected, and therefore
potentially Yoshida men, or were second or third term
party members who were not neoessarily opposed to
Yoshida but were merely unwilling to commit themselves
in terme of intra-party groups.
The addition of members of the Ono faotion to
Yoshida's group is, on the other hand, a reflection of
the deoline in power of the oldline party bosses, and
indireotly of HAToYAiA Iohiro, the purged former president
of the party, and represents a strengthening of Yoshida's
party position that is out of proportion to the members
of Ono men who have joined his group. Nineteen former
members of the Ono faotion are now considered to belong
to Yoshida's group. Ono's connection with Hatoyama and
other oldtime party leaders has been the source of his
power within the DLP, as well as the faot that Yoshida
in the early days of his party leadership needed the
support of experienced politicians. Ono's indictment
and
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolomure to Tokyo's
549, August 11, 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
and recent sentence to ten months in prison for accepting
bribes has been an immediate cause for his deoline in
power within the party. Yoshida was at least relieved
to have Ono out of a position of influence within the
party, and while there is no evidence, despite the many
rumors,tt t Yoshida exerted any pressure to bring about
Ono's conviction, he did nothing to assist Ono in his
trial.
The Ono Faction
The Ono faction has been the stronghold.of the
influence and power of prewar political leaders within
the DIP. It was, prior to its recent deoline, composed
of oldtime political leaders still in public life, along
with a few younger members who looked to the older
politicians as their mentors. This group has been
opposed to Yoshida as an interloper who instead of
considering himself merely the temporary custodian of
Hatoyama's power began to build up his own political
power independent of Hatoyama, and gradually freed himself
of dependence upon the Ono faction for support and advice.
It was this group that strongly opposed the ooncessions
Yoshida made in the formulation of the recent budget,
the coalition cabinet with the Demoorats, and the proposal
that Inukai enter the DLP.
At the present the Ono faction consists of about
ulirty-rlye er bore  ompared to forty-eight at the
end ofmyaroh: although the deoline in terms of numbers
is not large, the grcup has been deprived of Ono's
leadership and. Yoshida has removed most of its members
from positions of party responsibility thereby depriving
them of their ability to control the polioies of the
party, whioh in turn weakens their position to attraot
new Diet and party members to their group.
The Yamazaki Faotion
This group has any of the ohardoteristios of the
Ono fuotion and is in fuot fairly olose to the latter
group on mattere of purty polioy. Yumazaki and Yoshida
have been on very bad terms sinoe the attempt last.
fall by dissidonts within the DLP and elements with in
the Demooratio Party to nominate Yamazaki instead of
Yoshida as Premier. Although Yamazaki resigned from the
Diet to avoid being a oandidate against Yoshida and
stated publioally thet he was an innooent viotim of. the
maohinations of other groups, Yoshida has been unfriendly
toward him cvor since. Yamazaki's faotion has gained
four members sinoe Maroh, but he has lost the support
of Mr. HOSHIJIMA Jiro, who, although still considered
a member of this faotion, is leaning more and more toward
Yoshida.
The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Tra Shidehara Faction
This faction consisted of those former Demoorats
who joined the DIP in March 1948 after seceding from
the Democratio Party over such issues as the coal bill
and the formation of the Ashida Cabinet. The faction
was primarily interested in assuring the former Demoorats
a position of influence in the DIP. With the elevation
of Shidehara to the speakership of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and with the gradual assimilation of the
members of this faotion into the DLP, the Shidehara
faction is declining in importance and its members are
drawing closer to Yoshida.
The Shukuto Faction
The Shukuto, or Party Cleaning Faction, presently
consists of thirteen members as opposed to twenty-two
members earlier this year.It is composed largely of
younger Diet members who desire to reform the party
by eliminating the control of the older politioians and
giving the younger members an opportunity to hold
influential positions. This group has been in opposition
to Yoshida and has čonstituted a dissident element
within the party on almost every issue. The decline of
this group and the defection of some of its members to
the Yoshida, Yamazaki and Ono factions is indicative
of the mixed composition of the original group and also
of its failure to attain any influence within the party.
The Neutral Group
This group is primarily composed of the newer Diet
members who have not formed olose politioal friendships
and are generally inexperienced in party politios. Since
the general eleotion of January 23, 1949, the group has
been reduced by some thirty-three members most of whom
joined the Yoshida faotion. In intra-party affairs the
neutral group is not oonsidered a faction. The name is
merely a conveinient designation for all party members
who are not affiliated with the existing faotions. The
various faotions seek the support of these neutral
members to strengthen their intra-party positions, but
the majority of the neutrals usually support the dominant
group within the party, whioh is now the Voshida faction.
Yoshida's Negotiations with the Demoorats
Yoshida 1s continuing to strengthen his position
within theparty by drawing into its ranks themembers
of both fuotions of the Demooratic Party." Initially
he insisted on the formation of a coalition cabinst
with Inukai and his Democratio party supporters. This
effort failed, and more recently Yoshida has succeeded
in winning the DLP over to accepting Inukai and his
followers into the DLF. Originally the Ono, Yamazaki
and Shukuto fuctions strongly opposed any merger with
the coalition Democrats and it apreared that if Yoshida
foroed the issue he might parcipitate a split in his
own
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
Enolosure to Tokyo's
no. 549, August. 11, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-5
own party. The decline of the opposition factions within
the DLP, has resulted in a viotory for Yoshida, although
he has agreed that Inukai will not be given the vice-
presidency of the DLP.
Yoshida is now trying to bring the opposition Demoorats
or the Ashida faction, into. the DLP. He has obtained
the approval of the DIP members to extend an invitation
to Tomabechi, leader of the Ashida Democrats. It is
reliably reported that Tomabechi has agreed to join the
DLP if an when he can persuade a large enough group of
his associates to follow him. Failing this, Tomabeohi
will probably remain outside the DLP. Although it can
be assumed that, in the event he is cleared of: charges of
accepting political bribes for which he is now awaiting
trial, Ashida will not. join or be welcomed in the. DLP
The opposition Democrats are finding it increasingly
difficult to obtain financial support, and this has
probably been the motivating force behind the:recent
rapproachment between Tomabechi and Yoshida.
game m aldin
Jane M. Alden
JMAlden:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.97)
Factional Affiliations of Diet Members of Dumoort
Liberal Party as of May 1, 1949.
1。
President Faction (86)
YOSHIDA Shigeru
HASHIMOTO Ryugo
TKEDA Hayato
MASUDA Kanehichi
FUKUDA Tokutai
YOSHITAKE Keiichi
HAYASHI JoJi
SHUTO Hideo
SATO Eisaku
NISHIMURA Naomi
AMANO Kimiyoshi
OKAZAKI Katsuo
KONDO Tsuruyo
TSUT PARA Toshio
WAT... Yoshio
ASO Takakichi
MAEO Shigesaburo
MAKINO Kansaku
TAKAGI Akira
EZAKI Masami
HIROKAWA Kozen
KASHIWARA Yoshinori
Former Members
KAJI Ryosaku
of the
MIZUTA Mikio
Ono Faction
AOKI Takayoshi
IWAMOTO Nobuyuki
ISHIDA Hirohide
OMURA Seiiohi
OKA Nobuemon
MORI Kotaro
OZAWA Saeki
TOMABECHI Hidetosh1
ARITA Jiro
MASUTANI Shuji
OGAWARA Masanobu
KAWANISHI Kyoshi
MATSUURA ToBuke
T Joiohi
"GAI Senzo
SAhAMOTO Minoru
SASAKI H1deo
Former Members
SENGA Koj1
of the
KAWANO Homan
Shidehara Faction
NEMOTO Ryutaro
YAGI Iohiro
OKAMI Taukasa
YAMMOTO Takeo
IIZUKA Sadasuke
OSAWA KaeJ1
HOMMA Shunich1
MATSUMOTO Ichiro
ONOSE Chubei
AOYAGI Ichiro

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
President Faotion (continued)
SAKATA Miohita
Former Members
NAKAUCHI Kenj1
of the
NOHARA Masakatsu
Shukuto Faotion
FUKUNAGA Kenji
Former Neutrals
MORI Satoru
TAMAKI Shinichi
OISHI Takeichi
FUKUNAGA Ishhin
TAKAHASHI Eikichi
Former Members
SUZUKI Masafumi
of the
Shukuto Faction
NAKANO Takeo
Former Neutrals
SAKATA Hideichi
TATSUNO Kiichiro
MAEDA Iku
SHINODA Kosaku
SHIDA Yoshinobu
NAKAMURA Yiyoshi
NISHIMURA Hideichi
OKADA Goro
TAMURA Tetsuzo
MINAMI Yos:10
FUKUI Isamu
NAKAMURA Kohachi
TSUKADA Juiohiro
TANAKA Keiiohi
YAMAMOTO Hisao
TAKAHASHI Hitoshi
TOBISHIMA Shigeru
MIYAHARA Kosaburo
NAKAMURA Juniohi
KITAZAWA Naokiohi
ENDO Saburo
KOGANE Yoshiteru
Independent who
recently joined
the DLP.
20
Ono Faction (35)
KAMBAYASHIYANA Eikiohi
YAiAMURA Shinjiro
UEHLARA Etsujiro
OUCHI Ichiro
OZEKI Giiohi
INATA Naomiohi
ISHIHARA Enkiohi
INAMURA Shiro
SOJI Ichiro
MATSUMOTO Hiroshi
NIWA Hyokiohi
OGASAWARA Yasomi
OIZUMI Kanzo
NISHIMURA Hisayuki
YAKUSHIJIN Iwataro
KONISHI Hideo
KATAOKA Isaburo
HONDA Ichiro
TAKAGI Matsuyoshi

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Ono Faction (continued)
MANABE Masaru
MURAKAMI Isamu
WATARI Shiro
SHIMAMURA Ichiro
SUZUKI Sempachi
HIRAI Giiohi
NOMURA Sentaro
ONO Bamboku
KONO Kenzo
TANAKA Kakue1
Formerly Shidehara Faction.
KIKUCHI Yoshiro
Formerly Shukuto Faction.
YAMAGUCHI Kokuroji
Porly Neutrals.
SHUTO. Shimpachi
TABUCHI Koichi
NAGATA Setsu
SASE Shozo
3. Yamazaki Faction (13)
YAMAZAKI Takeshi
HOSHIJIMA Jiro:(Partly Yoshida)
YAMAGUCHI Kikuichiro
KANDA Hiroshi (Partly Yoshida)
NAKAJIMA MOritoshi
IWAILLATSU ToraO
KURIYAMA .
YOSHIDA Yoshitaro
SHIBUYA Yutaro
IMAMURA Chusuke
Formerly Shukuto Faoti on
KURAISHI Tadao
MATSUNO Raizo
Formerly Neutrals.
TSUMURAYA Mitsue
Comrade Club (Doshi Kai) - Shidehara Faction (19)
SHIDEHARA K1Juro
HIRASAWA Chokiohi
SAITO Takao
MORISHIMA Goro
FURUHATA Tokuya
NIKAIDO Susumu
INOUE Tomoharu
KAWABATA Yoshio
OZAKI Suekichi
MATSUI Toyokiohi
TANAKA Manitsu
NAGAO Tatsuo
NAKAYAA Masa
YOSHIDA Shozo
MUTO Kaiohi
KODAIRO Hisao
SEKIYA Katsutoshi
HARA Kensaburo
SUZUKI Akira

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.97)
Shúkuto Faotion (Party Cleaning Faction) (15)
SABAKI Norio
TADA Isamu
YAMAGUCHI Koichi
OKAMURA. Rinemon
NATSUBORI Gensaburo
MURAKAMI Se1J1
KATO Ryutaro
ISHIHARA Noboru
FURUSHIMA Gie1
KAMINE Ryuta
KAKUTA Kokiohí
TOMINAGA Kakugoro
TSUJI Kanichi
6. Neutral Group (99)
IDE Mitsuji
TAKASHIO Saburo
AOKI Tadashi
NARA Haruji
MATSUMOTO ZenJu
KANKE Kiroku
TAKAKI Kichonosuke
KONISHI. Toramatsu
MAEDA Masao
NAITO Takashi
KAWAMOTO Sue J1
HATAKEYAMA Tsurukichi
SUZUKI Zenko
UTSUMI Yasukiohi
IMAIZUMI Sadao
HIRASHIMA Ryoiohi
FUJII Heiji
MIYAKE Noriyoshi
!TmmTA Yasushi
MARUYAMA Naotomo
OGAWA He1J1
WAKABAYASHI Yoshitake
UDA Wataru
ONISHI Hiroshi
MIYAKE Nobu
KODAMA Haruyuki
FUCHI Miohiyoshi
OKANO Kiyohide
HASHIMOTO Tomisaburo
SATO Chikahiro
HOSODA E1zo
FUJIEDA Sensuke
YANAGISAWA Yoshio
SHIOTA Kashiro
TAJIMA Yoshibumi
KIMBARA ShunJ1
HIRANO Saburo
TAKAHASHI Sadaioh1
EDA Tomekichi
TANAKA Shigeya
OBUCHI Mitsuhei
TAKEO HaJime
TAGUCHI Chojiro

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.97)
-5
SETOYAMA Mitsuo
TAKAMA Matsukichi
UNO Hidejiro
ABE Shungo
OWADA Yoshiei
MATSUNAGA Bukkotsu
KUROSAWA Tomijiro
OHASHI Takeo
FUNAKOSHI Hiroshi
TAMAKI Minoru
FUCHIGAMI Fusataro
KITAGAWA Sadamu
HARADA Yukimatsu.
SATO Shigeto
CHUMAN Tatsui
KIMURA Kóhei
MORISHITA Takashi
ODAKA Tshiro
TANAA H e
MATSUDA. Te tsuzo
IKEDA Masanosuke
KAWAHARA Isaburo
ADACHI Tokuro
KADOWAKI Katsutaro
IKUTA Wahei
NAGAI Eishu
SAKUA Toru.
LIURA Toranosuke
KAWAMURA Kihachiro
ASARI Saburo
KANO Hikokichi
SEKIUCHI Shoichi
MIZUTANI Noberu
OSIITANI Tomizo
IMAMURA Chotaro
OCHI Shigeru
KATSUKI Tamotsu
TSUBOUCHI Hachiro
FURUDA Yoshiharu
KOGAlA Naganori
IWAKAWA Yosuke
HATAYA SenJiro
SH Ipei
SHIRAI Sakiohi
TAKADA Yaiohi
EBANA Shizuka
ASAKA Tadao
GOJIMA (GOTO),
Hideji
TANAKA ShoJi
FUKUDA Ha Jime
NAKAGAWA Shunj1
IKEMI Shigetaka
OKANISHI Akisada
TSUCHIKURA Somei
MITSUO Kimisuke
KAZAlA Keikichi

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
7. Independents who Recently joined the party
ASAMI Hiroji
INOUE Shikio
TAKAHASHI Gonroku
OSE Hisaichi

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.94)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
TELEGRAPH BRANDY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
NA
DIVISION OF
office of
Noil
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ORTHFAST ASIAN AFFAUR
tion
AUG 83 1313
4555
Action Talen
bIRRTR
2
n of Blate
BA
ACTION: FE
INFO
DC/R
From
USPOLAD, Tolyo.
s/s
Action Cilice
G
Dated:
August 17, 1949.
894.
EUR/X
Nome of offic
Date of
SY
mailing
OLI
Dirsctien to DC/R
Unknown
CIA
SECRET
Received:
/8-1749
The Honorable
Secretary of State,
Washington.
A-203. August 17, 19.19.
The Departnent's attention is invited to pages five and ix
of the August 15, 1949 issue (no. 2532) of the Intelligencs
Summary published dai.ly by General Headaaerters Far Was Co l,
which describes current relations between members of the Co a ist
Party and the Japanese police, noting particularly conmunis ors
at infiltration into police ranks, proselytization of membes  the
police force, intimidation of the police and hostility  " gve
ment's plot to create a police state".
SEBALY
SECRET FILE
SEP1219
S 350.21
CKEus ton:md
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
SHRET

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FORIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATDD CP AMGRICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
No. 589
Tokyo, August 27, 1949
REC
UNCLASSIFIED
DC/R
SEPT
act
/8-2749
OLI
(4) ENC
TNFO
Subject:
Transmittal of Japanese Publications on
DCR
Sahalin, South Kuril Islands, Habomai
FE EN
Island, and Shikotan Island.
EUR ENG
L ENC
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to
1/2/
transmit eight copies each of two publications
prepared by the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
entitled Saghalien (Karafuto) Island and South Kuriles;
Habomei Islands; Shikotan Island.
The publications review the historical basis of
Japanese territorial claims to these areas.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIYED
SEP 0 1949
OFFICE CF LIORARIES
AND INTELLIGENCE ACQUISITION
1
Saghalien (Karafuto)
Island prepared by
Leigatonchs to:
Japanese Ministry of
Foreign Affairs (eight
copies)
LRCIH,CH M + DRF/
9/12/Y3
2.
South Kuriles; Habomai
Islands; Shikotan Island
prepared by Japanese
Ministry of Foreign
Affairs ( eight copies)
/
FILED
6
Parehment Mat to Department
FA
969
020
CNSpinks:mhp
a
UNCLASSIFIED
8-279
C
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH XNOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.
C

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.96)
United States Political Advia
for Japan
1×R
No. 590
Tokyo, August 27, 1949.
RESTRICTED
REC'D
1949
m grear/Nk)
SEP 2
ACTION
FE
Subject: Communist Situation in Hokkaido.
DNFO
DCR
OLI
s/s
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to
1
transmit to the Department a summary of observations
894.00/8-2749
EUR/X
made by an official of the Japanese Ministry of Foreign
POS
Affairs after a recent lecture trip to Hokkaido. The
UNESCO
official made this trip as part of a lecture program
UNA
undertaken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This
EUR
program is concerned primarily with foreign affairs
and has been undertaken in response to requests for
speakers from numerous organizations throughout the
XIR
country. Heretofore, speakers have taken a tolerant
attitude toward the Communists, but no effort is now
being made to win over persons of communist sympathy,
894.00B
and speakers are desoribing with frankness the harsh
realities of communist regimes and the treacherous
taotios of international communism.
The Foreign Office official was impressed with the
faot that communist activity in Hokkaido appears weaker
than in other parts of Japan and that there is a definite
and conspicuous anti-communist tendency among the people.
One of the most active of ecently organized anti-communist
groups is the Heiwa Domei (Peace Alliance), which has
successfully penetrated Tabor unions in several coal
mines. In some instances, there is a tendency for the
Heiwa Domei to become affiliated with local UNEsco chapters.
Hokkaido Counter Intelligence Corps informed the
Japanese official that there are believed to be about
nine thousand communist party members on the island, along
with some thirty thousand communist sympathizers.
The official also found great enthusiasm for and
interest in the UNESco movement, the meetings of the
local UNEsco chapters being exceptionally well attended.
Throughout the lecture tour the official found
3E
Hokkaido Japanese fully alive to the communist danger
FILED
P
and well acquainted with the subversive character of
22
communist tactics. Most people attending the official's
leotures appeared well informed on American affairs,
18
949
but
RESTRICTED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatoh no.
590, August 27, 1949.
RESTRICTED
-2-
but were particularly anxious to learn more about true
conditions in the Soviet Union. Among questions asked
the speaker was thc requent query as to whether the
United States would withdraw from Japan in the event
of war with the Soviet Union. Aocording to communist
propaganda in Hokkaido, the Soviet Army will quiokly
occupy the island in the event of a Soviet-American
war, and the people had best therefore join the Japan
Communist Party.
Enclosure: at
Summary of observations made
by an official of Japanese
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
after recent lecture trip to
Hokkaido.
Parchment Mat to Department.
350.21
CNSpinks:thp
RESTRICTED
312
uu

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatoh nov
dated August 27, 1949 from
the United States Politioal
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
on the subject, "Communist
Situation in Hokkaido
(COPY)
Received from K, Ohno, Japanese Foreign Office, August 19,
1949。
Recent Information Concerning Hokkaido
Observation Made by the Foreign Office Official
From 5th to l0th of this month, and official of
the Foreign Office made a tour of Hokkaido and spoke
before the Sapporo Gaiko-Kodankai (Sapnoro UNESco
Chapter, Sapporo Nittsu, Bibai UNESco, and before the
joint meeting sponsored by Hakodate Chamber of Commerce
and Industry, Hakodate Operators' Associacion and
Hakodate Shimbun. Following is the impression which
the lecturer acquired from his brief tour.
1. General Impression
In comparison with the communist activities in
Honshu and other parts of Japan, the leftist influence.
is not so strong in Hokkeido aná condition there is
far more stable then what is senerally felt in Tokyo.
Actually anti-communist movements are very conspicuous
and this tendency is daily increasing, particularly
since the establishment of Heiwa Domei (Peace Alliance)
which has penetrated into various coal mines. However,
there are rumours to the effect that this Alliance is
inclining towards the rightist ideology and may amalgamate
various UNEsco chapters (as in the case of Bibai).
According to the chief of Counter Intelligence Corps
in Hokkaido, Lt. Col. De Loach, "Communism will not
flourish where people enjoy three square meals a day."
This is true for the standard of living in Hokkaido is
much higher than in the main island of Japan. Colonel
De Loach also added that according to the rough estimation
by the Japanese police, there are roughly 9ooo communists
and 30,oo0 sympathizers in Hokkaido. Although communists
are rather weak in Hokkaido, they still maintain far
stronger organization than the Peace Alliance Group.
Cne ver distinct tendency in Hokkaido is that the
UNESCO movement is very popular there. For example a
very old man over 80 years of age regularly attends the
UNESCO

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo!s
590, August 27, 1949.
-2-
UNESCO gathering in Sapporo and a man over 60 is the
President of Bibai Chapter of UNESCo.  At Bibai young
men and women as well as mothers attend the meeting,
even carrying babies cn their backs.
The Hokkaido Liaison Office of the Foreign Office
is exerting its great efforts in fostering UNESCo
movement. Perhaps this is accomplished because of the
peoples responsi ve attitude to new things in Hokkaido.
2. Attitude of the People Attending Lecture Meetings.
Peoples in various places in Hokkaido are very
earnest and many questions were asked at the gatherings.
Also it could be said that people in Hokkaido are nowwell
acquainted with the communistic tactics in various labor
unions and they are aware of the dangerous objectives
of the Communist Party.
3. Further Desires for Hokkaido.
Although anti-communist measures are already set
up in Hokkaido, there is a possibility that the Communists
may recover their lost influence in that locality. As
a consequence, the laborers in coal mines especially were
very anxious to know about the actual conditions existing
in USSR.
The Foreign Office official spoke mainly on the
history, politics, economics and social condition of the
United States, but he was showered with questions concern-
ing USSR. One of the interpellators stated that they
are well informed on American affairs, but on Russian
affairs their knowledge is limited. It is felt therefore
that further lectures on Russian affairs are necessary
in Hokkaido area to consolidate the anti-communist
movement. The workers in Hokkaido pointed out that they
are fully aware of the American labor problems and they
are looking forward to having an opportunity of listening
to an expert on Russian labor problems.
4. Questions Asked by the Audience.
(a) Will America withdraw from Japan in event of war
with Russia? The comm nists are saying that in case of
shooting war between the Russians and Americans, the
Russian Army will land in Hokkaido and therefore it is
better to join the Japan Communist Party.
(b) Will the Japan Communist Party resort to
violence? The Japan Communist Party apparently says no,
but what is the truth?
(c) Communist

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
Enolosure to Tokyo's
590, August 27, 1949.
-3-
(c) Communist activities in American Labor Unions.
(a) In Japan labor strikes are being looked upon
as a crime, but what is the real attitude of the people
towards strike in America?
(e) Wha: is the relation between capital and labor
in USA?
(f)
The relation between CIO and AFL in America.
(g)
Cuest ons on Manchuria and Communist held China.
(h)
Future status of Okinawe and Formosa.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.96)
INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH CORPORATION
67 BROAD STREET, NEW YORK 4, N. Y.
REOFIVED
OCT 2 7 1949
Aúgust 29, 1949
DIVISION CF
VISION OF
1×R
Mr. W. Walton Butterworth
Director, Office of Far Eastern Affains
ATN AFFAI
Room 3152, New State Department Building
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Butterworth:
Please find enclosed excerpts from
Monthly Reports received from our overseas subsidiaries
894.00/8-2949
and associated companies, which may prove of interest
0
to your office.
Sincerely yours,
218574
Leonard Jaco II
Vice President
0
0C1 27 1949
FILED
Us/H

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
JULY 1949 REPORT FROM
AUSTRALIA
xR
POLITICAL SITUATION:
847.00
The total ban on the use of power to Industry imposed by the
N.S.W. Governaent, as from June 20th, continued during July. After
protracted negotiations had failed to achieve a settlement the
Federal Government called in the Army to operate Open Cut Mines in
N.S.W. as from lst August. Restrictions are now being relaxed in
respect of certain essential industries.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
JUME 1949 REPORT FROM
JAPAN
POLITICAL SITUATION:
Elections and Changes in Government
The Government has formally decided to appoint Mr. Kaneshichi Masuda,
present Chief Cabinet Secretary, to the State Minister at the Cabinet Meeting hold
on June 24. The inauguration ceremony was taken place on the same day.
The Ministry of Communications became divided into two Ministries
of Postal Administration and Telecommunications upon the principle of its
complete reorganization stated in the General Mao Arthur's letter dated on June
22nd, 1948 relative to the fundamental revision of National Publio Service Law,
for the purposenof more efficient and powerful management of its business --
the former administrates postal affairs, savings and insurance, the latter
administrates telegraph and telephone communications. These two Ministries
have started on June lst in accordance with the Establishment Law of Postal
Administration Ministry and Telecommunications Ministry.
Mr. Saeki Osawa, former Minister of Communications has been appointed
to head the both Ministries concurrently on June lst.
International relations, including particularly commercial
agreement and trade treaties
According to the telegram from Buenos Aires a new commercial finanoe
agreement was made on June 8, between Argentina Government and Japanese trade
mission while on their inspection trip to Central and South America. Although
dotails are not disclosed, commercial circles in Buenos Aires are said to be
making the following conjectures:
(1) Argentina will send to Japan cereals, raw wool and hides in
exchange for tea, silk, rice and machinery.
(2) Payments will be in U.S. dollars when the balance on one
side or the other reaches $ 3,000,000.
(3) Each country, under the agreement, is to use its own ships
as much as possible in the two-way trade.
It was announced on June 9th by the Public Relations Section, G.H.Q.
that a trade arrangement totalling  2,500,000 was signed between the French
Union and Occupied Japan. The arrangement will cover trade between the two
countries from March 1st, 1949 to Februery 28th, 1950 and will be conducted
in accordance with the terms of the financial arrangement in effect between
the French Union and Ocoupied Japan since July 7th, 1948.
AUG 10 1919

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2-
JUNE 1949 REPORT FROM JAPAN
All matters pertaining to both the trade arrangement and the finas-
cial plan, have the approval bcth of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
and of the French Government.
It was announced formally by the Ministry of Finance of Peru that a
commercial arrangement was made on June 24th, in Lima, between Japanese trade
mission and Peru officials concerned.
The arrangement contains that the trade is based on dollar account
and Japan will import raw cotton, sugar and metals in exchange for ordinary
machines, steel products, paper, cement and fibre products not manufactured
in Peru.
It was announced by the Public Relations Section, G.H.Q. that a
commercial arrangement totalling $ 5 million was signed between Finland and
Japan on June 2lst.
The term of validity of this arrangement is one year from July lst
this year, and the American dollar settlement of open account system is adopted.
According to information from the Government circles of Pakistan
obtained on June l6th, a seven-point trade agreement was reached by Pakistan
and Japan and would be effective July lst.
Under its terms Japan will export cloth, cotton yarn, rayons, elect-
rical goods, glassware, iron products, clocks and watohes. Japan will receive
85,000 bales of ran jute, 20,000 tons of salt, 500,000 bales of wood,
1,500,000 pounds of hemp and other erticles.
Attitude of Government towards business
As the Ministry of Communications was divided into the Ministries of
Postal Administration and Telecommnications on June lst, and at the same time
the self-supporting accounting system has definitely been adopted by them, their
policy of purchasing from manufacturers would be much influonced.
The Communications Bureau of Economic Stabilisation Board was
abolished and the business belcnging to it has been succeeded by the Traffio
Section of Construction and Traffic Bureau of the Board.
Specific legislation introduced which may affect Companies
interests
The Law amending the Anti-Monopoly Law was promulgated on June 18th.
The salient points of the revision are as follows:

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
JUNE 1949 REPORT PROM JAPAN
(1)
Under the provisions of the original law, any international
agreements or contracts placing "restrictions on import of technique,
agreement on production and sales" by Japanese Companies were requir-
ed to be previously approved by the Fair Trade Commission, and the
"restrictions on the exchange of kmowledge or information regarding
science or technique" were also banned.
The revised law has removed these prohibitions of the restriot-
ions on the exchange or knowledge or information regarding science
or technique, changed the requirement of obtaining approval before-
hand to an ex post facto report on the international agreements or
contracts, ana prohibited only such ones as would violate the anti-
trust-and-cartel principle. (Article 6).
(2)
The original lew, as a principie, prohibited enterprises except
banking business to own ahares of other industries and so obstructed
the foreign countries of the revival of pre-war investment and their
new investments. The revision has allowed altogether the business
enterprises to own shares of other industries except when they are
competitive ones, restrict the transactions, and result in monopoly.
(Article 10).
(3)
The original law restricted the floatation of debentures ex-
pressed by foreign currency basing upon the restrictions on holding
debentures; whereas the revision deleted the clause which states that
no one can hold debentures of more than 25% of the capital of the
company. (Article 12).
(4)
The revised law has banned the concurrent assumption of
officlals only when the Companies are competitive. (Article 13).

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
894.00/9-949
IVISION 
United States Politioal Adviser
for Japan
THAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
REC 'D
SEPT 23
No. 620
SP 1949
Sentember 9, 1949
RESTRICTED
ACTION
FE
INFO
DCR
EUR
Subject:
Article by FUSE Katsuji on "Chances for a
EURX
Bolshevik Revolution in Japan".
894.00/9-949
s/s
OLI
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
m
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit to the Department a
copy (in English translation) of an article by Mr. FUSE
Katsuji entitled "Chances for a Bolshevik Revolution
in Japen", which appeared in the August 1, 1949, issue
of Nippon Shudo. The English text is taken fron Rengo's
Digest Service, (no. 124) of August 24. Mr. Fuse, author
of the article, is a noted Japanese authority on Soviet
affairs and was once Moscow correspondent of Mainichi
Shimbun. Except for several communist leaders, Mr. Fuse
is among the exceedingly few Japanese who ever conversed
with both Lenin and Stalin. Mr. Fuse's famous interview
with Stalin on July 1, 1925 is the subject of considerable
comment by Dr. B. NICOLAEVSKY in his article "Russia,
Japan, and the Pan-Asiatic Movements to 1925", published
in the May 1949 issue of The Far Eastern Cuarterly.
Mr. Fuse contends that the views expressed to him
by Lenin in 1920 and by Stalin in 1925 were unusually
prophetic of the present situation. In 1920 Lenin,
according to the author, declared that at that stage real
communism had little possibility of success except in
already digging their own future graves. Stalin in 1925
X
told the author that the West formed the strategic front
of imperielism while the East was the strategic rear of
communism. Stalin believed that imperielism subjected
5
893.00
to cross-fire from both sides was doomed.
5
on
According to Mr. Fuse, it was Stalin who first
endeavored to focus the forces of international communism
LWC
on the Far East, and Stalin's rise to power after the
0
dovnfall of Zinoviev gave a more positive character to the
14
Asiatic
RESTRICTED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FLS
A NOTATION
TION

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.95)
620, 8eptember 9, 1949.
RESTRICTED
-2-
Asiatic revolution. The first important result was the
short-lived communist alliance with the Chinese Nationalists
Generalissimo CHIANG Kai-shek's break with the Chinese
Communists and the Soviet Union in the period 1926-1927
had a profound effect, in the author's opinion, on China's
subseguent development, being regerded as a "glaring
betrayal" which the Kremlin never forgave. Mr. Fuse
believes that the Sian coup in 1936, when CHNG Hsueh-liang
kidnapped the Ce cralissimo and induced him to commit
himself to a poliey of full-scele resistence a ainst the
Japanese, was a move engineered by Stalin for the twofold
purpose of winning for the Chinese Communists a more
influential place in China and undermining the strength
of the Chinese Nationalists through a costly war with
Japan. If such a policy were consciously conceived and
executed by Stclin, as Mr Fuse maintsins, the ultimate
results of wajor hostilities vith Japen certainly attained
such objectives.
Mr. Fuse believes thot Soviet policw over the past
twenty years has consistently aveided sii u'ten ous operations
in both the East and the West. On the bas of this theory.
Mr. Fuse centends thet the Perlin Blociade was a move
designed primarily to sereen the large-seale sweep of the
Chinese Communists, which has brought North and Central
China under conmunist control, by tying the United States
and pritain down in the West.
In Mr. Fuse's view. the Chinese Communists accepted
United States medietion for rec siliatio. vith the
Koumintang primarily for the purpose or ininy time,
since communist military strength at the close of the
war was still inferior to that of the Nasionelists.
Turning to the cormuniat situ clon tn Fapan
Mr. puse draws a compuricon betwme pr sont-aay Jupamone
conditions and these whieh preval led in lussia in is17.
Poth countries had suffered severe militery reverees
resulting in scute econonie dislocetion The Tarm.
Revolution of 1917 cesily overohrow tre Romanerr poxime.
but ti e provi slonal sovermsent seou wavered amder laber
and agrerian unrest end fell to the Bolstevik Revolution
of November. Postwar Jupen, Ir. Tuse indieates in
passing through a somewhet similur set of conlitions.
The old order, es represented by the resetionevy militerluo
bureaueracy, has been replaced by e moderenely liheral
regime under the Occupatlon whieh the Cormunisos might
well regard ae the comparable "provicional yov pnpent"
This liberal regime is also jeoperdized b: labor unrest
and economie difficulties, and it would sees reesonable
to assume thet the conaunists are a in aweiti the
opportunity for enother Nevewbor Ravalution.
Fuse
RESTPTOTED

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch no.
620, September 9, 1949.
RESTRICTED
-3-
Mr. Fuse also makes an interesting point of the
Soviet conception and use of prisoners of wer, comparing
Lenin's use of German and Austrian prisoners in Russia
to overcome resistance of the provisional government to
present-day Soviet policy with respect to Japanese
repatriates.
Mr. Fuse is convinced that Mikoyan is the real leader
behind Soviet efforts to communize the Fer East. He
believes that Mikoyan has three mejor objectives: first,
to prevent MAo Tze-tung fron espousing Titoism; secord,
to accomplish the complete comnunization of Koree; end
finally, to realize the Bolshevization of Japen. The
close of the war, Mr. Fuse writes, "merked the reversion
of the Kremlin's strategic policy towerd Japan". Japan
is no longer the frent of imperislism but its rear.
Soviet policy toward Japan sinee the end of the war has
accordingly s tressed Japan's role as an opprecsed nation,
oppressed, of course, by what Japanese Conmunists now
frequently refer to us the impericlistic colonimation
policies of the United Stetes While Mr Fuse's article
does not attempt to chart with any exeetitude the possible
course of a Bolshevik revolution in Japan, he does imply
that the reversion of the Iremlin's strategie policy
toward Japan is premised upon workable prineiples, for,
in his opinion, the "oppressed nation" concept hes
unguestionably been an important element in the success
of the Chinese Comeuniets.
Respectfully yours.
Cebuld
Article by Fuse Katsuji
"Chances for a Polshevik
Revolution in Japan"
Copy to: American Mnlessy. Moseow
Parchment Mat to Department
350..21
CNSpinks:mhp
RESTRICTUD

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.93)
for Japen, Tokyo, on t
"Artiole by FusE Kataua
"Chances for a Bolahavtk
in Japan".
CHANCES FOR A BOLSHEVIK REVOLUTION OF JAPAN
By Katsuji Fuse
(From Nippon Shudo, August 1, 1949 Issue)
(Editor's Note: Having stayed for many years in
Mosoow as the correspondent of the Mainichi and associated
with Lenin and other leaders of the Soviet Union, Mr. Fuse
is the No. 1 authority on Soviet affairs and is one of the
two existing Japanese, except some Communists, who have
directly conversed with Stslin. The other person is
Mr. Fusanosuke Kuhara.)
It was on June 4. 1920 thas I visited Lenin at
the Kremlin. and on July 1. 1925 I alse had an interview
with Stalin at the Headquarters of the Soviet Communist
Party. on beth oecasions. I was strongly impressed
by their Asiatic appearance. Especially, Stalin, who
at the outset of our interview deelared himselr to be
an Asiatic, is indeed a senuine Asiatic hailing from
Georgia of Ceucasia It was therefore natural that they
both should have direeted especial attention the the
revolution of the Aaiatic peoples since during the Bolshevik
Revolution of November, 1917
The opinion these twe great pevelus onacy leaders
expressed on those occasions were exectly in predicting
the present situation or the werld. To my question of
whether in the West or the Wast communism would nave
more chance for success, Lenin replied that although in
the present stege real communlum ted little possibility
of sueceas excees in the West the Wessere powers were
now digel. thel swes sreves tn the bast
Repying
to the same questiem, stlulin sald thas she West formed
the strategis sront of amperhaliem and sbe Hest ats
strategis rear for yom uriem cnd bjertee to a crosee
fire Srem poth sides bmperlallem war deomed
TE BOLSHUVTATTOE OP ASLA OTHTE
PRUMARY
It was in the earlier years of the Bolshevik
Revolution when Lenin wes still living vhet the Kremlin
began to exert its "red" inflvenees on the Fer Wast.
When in l920 I succeeded in emuegling myaelf into Soviet
Russia and was quartered in a billet velonaing to the
People s Commisariat or Foreirn Affairs. I soon found that
the place was haunted by many revolutiohiats comine from
other countries, chierly such Asiatic countrivs as China,
India, Afghenistan. Korea, ete Mr en Katuyama the
first Japenese who represented in loscow the Japunese
Communist Party, came to the Sovict capital in 1921
followed by Mr. Mosaburo Suzuri present Chairmen of the
Central Executive Conmittee of mnt Social Demseretic Perty.
Mr Katayama

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch no. 620,
September 9, 1949.
-2
Mr. Katayama seems to have called many Japanese communist
members to Soviet Russia, but for some reason or other,
these Japanese communists in Moscow were all under assumed
names and averted getting in contact with the "White
Japanese" there.
In the summer of 1925 when I was travelling from Peking
to Moscow by taking advantage of the resumption of the
Japanese-Soviet diplomatic relations, I met by chance
Mr. Katayama in the train. Hs was then on his way back to
Moscow from his victorious activities in the Chinese
revolution and was at the summit of his prosperity. But
later he was branded as a Trotzkyite and considerable
pressure seems to have been brought to bear upon him. In
his later yeare, the old Ketayama was much in straightened
circumstances The person who represented the Japanese
Communist Party at t hat time in place of Katayama was
Mr. Sanzo Nozaka. alias Okeno. He also seems to have
averted intercourse with the "yhite Japanese".
STALIN DIRECTE EIS ATTENTION TO CHINA
About 1923 tc 192. the Oriental Communist University
was established in Moscow for the edueation and training
of young Communist members who were called together from
verious Asiatic ccontries
This institution for the
training of leaders of the future comnunist revolution
in Asia, was for some time ohristened Sun Yat sen University,
when the Chinese revolution was in full swing The
honary president of this university was Stalin, who himself
from time to time d livered a special lecture to the students.
Soon after the estabiishment of this university revolutionary
movements in various Asiatic countries rlared up, Vhen
the Chinese revoluvaon was progressing an l92s 26. Bucharin
was acting as Chairman ct the Cominteru veplacing Zinoviev
the first Chairman. He was however a theortet out
essentially not fit for prectical movement, and therefore.
while he was vainly Revoting himself to eloguent speeches
in many meetinge the actual leaderahip of the Comintern
was in the hands or Stalin who was then the Chief Secretary-
of the Communist Party. The dewnfall of Zinoviev suggested
the revolution in the West being at a low ebb. while the
rising of Stalin meant the Asictie revolution taking on
a positive character
Stalin's first aitention was directed to Ching.
just at the time when Sun Yet sen reverted his poliey for
cooperating with the Communist Party and affiliating with
Soviet Russie for the first time sinee his nemotlatiens
with Joffe. He never missed this opportunity. and the
Contern

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.94)
Enelosure to Tokyo's
Despatch no. 620,
September-9, 1949.
-3-
Comintern ordered the Chinese Communist Party to cooperate
with the Kuomintang. When Chiang Kai-shek established the
Huang Military Academy, the Kremlin assisted him by
supplying considerable funds and furnishing advisors and
teachers to the academy. The Nationalist revolutionary
army who set out from Canton under Chiang's leadership on
the Northern expedition in 1926, swept away all the war
lords in the north and seized the Wu-Hen district. This
great military success doubtlessly owed much to the Soviet
Union. At that time. Chiang was assisted oy Borodin as his
political advisor and Galen (which was the assumed name of
Marshal Bluecher) as his military advisor. Moreover, most.
of the young and energetic officers were graduates from
the Huang Military Academy and energetic ofricers were
graduates from the Huang Military Aoademy and students of
Galen.
However, when the revolutionary armies began to
proceed farther down th Yagtz iver complicated
internal strife took place between the Kuomiatang and the
Communist Party and besween the right and left factions
of the Kuomintang. By the vime the Nationalist armies
occupied and thresren so atrack Shanghai. this situation
had reached the werst At th:s chieng resolutely carried
out the so-called Shanghai coup d etet m Aprm: 12, 1926,
on the strength of the rightiat elements of the party.
By this coup a etet eniang not only brought the
Communist Paruy uader pressure. hut alse wens to the length
of declaring severance cf diplomatie relations with Soviet
Russia, simultaneousiy arresimg Borcain and expelling Galen
out of China
Althongn Chr sag hsd once studied in Moscow,
he was not e commnumust member
the cy peason ror his
adoption of the po ley of croperatirs wath the communists
and the Sovi et lhspired tormer end Laber poliey was a
temporary expedieat whien ne found neceseary in pursuing
the late Dr Sun Yat eee's reve lup nery poltey Lt was
therefore nature: that ne sheuld sever relabions with the
Communists eny time they were censidered areiest this policy.
However, for the Kremlin the mhamghas action was s glaring
betrayal of chiang'a, s nd Russia vas furiously indignant
with Chiang, whom it retntred as reguiting kindness with evil.
CTLANG FOROND DNNO ANTL YARATLMAA MAR BY GLAN COUP
The Shanghai coup d etas added much to the disadvantage
of the Stalin faction in Soviet Russia whien wae then
emerging unfavoraoly cut of theorevacel struggle wdth the
Trotzky faction
The Trotzky feetjon aboacked Bualin. by aotributing
the failure in china to his atcemps at cooperating with
the Kuomintang which was sssentially a beurgeois party.
How far-reaching was mis enmity incurred by the Shanghai
action can be imagined frew she faet that Stalin took
Chiang Ching-kuo caiang's eidest son then studying in
Moscow, as nostage end let him declare severauce of his
connection

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.93)
ptember 9,1949
connection with his father, whom he oondemned as 
"betrayer".
But Stalin was a crarty politician, who seldom
betrays his sentiments. It was before long that he, con-
cealing his bitter enmity at the back of his heart,
stretched in pretended innocence his hand to the Nanking
Government for cooperation, sending an ambassador to
Nanking or proposing the Sino Soviet Non-Agression Paot.
For twenty years following the Shanghai event, a thrilling
diplomacy, which filled the third party with keen anxiety,
has been maintained between Stalin and Chiang, who were
at once friend and enemy. While they were cooperating
with each other in friendly verms, they were mutually
watching for an unguarded moment for gripping the other's
throat. The Slan coup was one ef the cesee which saliently
betrayed their relati ons. It was indee. +he imevoc ble slip.
committed by Chiang tnat he visited single haled Chang
Hsueh-liang at Sian who wes then already under the
influence of Moscow througn the Chinese Conununist Party.
But hiang Kai shek was no nferior to Stalin in
astuteness. on returmin  Manking from Sian, where he
accepted the waging of ful! suope wer against Japan as
conditions for his satety or lifs which were proposed
by Stalin through Chane Hauet iang he started the anti-
Japanese war in the foIfiI imeat of the conditions. However,
Chiang. while conseiously yiaying jn the hands of Stalin,
was considering to mak the mast of the Chinese Communists
and Soviet Russia in brangins this war to victory.
MANCHURIA
PY AL  LOSE
The impreesien r sa Kas shek I ceeeived while
ir erviewing him in Pekis
 suraneely similar to that
I guined from talin
n were Kirdly and courteous
in attitude and  peke in em  rve and in e lov voiee.
They pretended to be med:  on ealles their greatness.
But what most remareebly cne rarteri zed vout of them was
their adamant wili and e tnacity. Nethingwas stranger
than the relationship netween these two sworn enemies,
Stalin cheriehing an mplacable hostility towards Chiang
since he chiang  e's: n smas tarins a blood feud
vith Staj..
we we saaw coup Ts was ihdeed more then
what the simple Japanese  oult understcrd. Whn le Chiang's
policy of depending on Seviet Mus ma was hinging on the
said ulterier motlre Stalin s po y of assisting Chiang
had a hidden moti: or miving him into the anti Japanese
war until he beccme se satenad es ceuld successfully be
ettacked

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.88)
holosure to Tokyd
deapaton no. 620,
eptember 9, 1949.
-5-
attacked by the Chinese Communist Party 1n the rear
The Sino-Japanese was protracted and eventually deveto
into the Pacific War, thus creating a favorable situat
in the Far East to Stalin. At the close of the war
Manchuria with all its induetry fell into the hande of the
Chinese Communist Party and Soviet Russia, to the great
satisfaction of Stalin.
BLOCKADE OF BURLLH HOD DIVERTING TIE WORLD'S
ATPE.MTON
The greatese suecess cf the werla policy of the
Communist Party in pest war years is no doubt the over-
whelming vietory of ths chrceas Commuaists. However.
when in the spring of ast year the problem of the
Berlin bloekade arese  jud ea t at this move on the
part of Soviet Russis mnst ha a a nidden metive. In the
past twenty yeare tre wocrt pelisy ot the Kremlin has
continuously been hn en svoidance of engaging in
operatiens simnitenely u tre eastern and western
fronts Accoralmy  tais  asie policy. whenever Soviet
Ruseia Took tre Prenrrve e whe west i never failed to
take the derans  s vas ws vive veras. as it
was notably pereeives   t peica from the conclusion
of the Japanese ss os Noutretrty Fart to that of the
Yalta agreemest Tarr pes or ween paanea even after the
close of the war
meo arvny cat in a Targe seale the
Bolshevization ei mne  msidered in neeessery first
to restrain the ires ases wd sritein r the west.
Viewed in thi
as lersede sr Ferlin was motivated
by the Sovint o
 tstakably
consisted 
MDLATLON
After the
se ditea states was
most anxious t
ator batween the Kounintang
and the Chinese Commmmero Par  Pee bats purp se ceneral
Marshall himselr wen ver  cra ad Pa Gon. Hurley
was sent to Chunks
General Marlev went to Yenan in
order to pursuade Mar Tae mua umu ho Te te cooperate
with the National ovemenr n a ou ertort Considering
that their mis tory stremor wos sill intericr to that
of the Natiorar Goverrment pooy willupiy vecspted his
recommendatier.
ationa wi ch tne National
Government for reco ilnatror but renly witn en objeot
of sparring for simeCn th- cther cand Generel Marshall
at Nanking eneerty eoviaee nns Tst-res ts ive up the
suppression ef ste ohinese  mit Pey However, the
Natlonal dovernmeee emt  he cormmeiet Parry whieh were
respectively rerr srnted by iar Ke  er and Mao Tse-tung,
or more truly stalin whe ware the sworn enemles. could have
no possibility of reconeiling their differences chiang
himself forsaw from the rirst the umpossibility of reaching
reconciliation

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.90)
9,1949。
reconciliation with the Communist Party Thaain
in defiance of U. S. mediation efforts, he started
against the Communists.
Knowingly or unknowingly, Chiang was sowing then
seeds for being rebuked later by the United States that
he invited the present situation of China by feiling to
follow General Marshall's recommendations. On his part
however, he attributes the failure of the Communist
suppression to fruitless negotiations for reconciliation
which ceused him to miss an opportunity for military
operations. Beceuse when he comnenced the attack against
Yenan, the Communist aray hai been considerably strengthened
in arms and emmunition
Proceeding to Manchuria, the
army was abundantly and etronvly equipped with arms of
industries left there by Japan. before it swept over a
greater part of China
"BOLSHEVIK REVOLUPEOM OF CHINA" REALIZND IN 2O YEARS
At the unexpected success of the present Chinese
revolution I canuot tut rememher the speech delivered
by Stalin at a meelins  Sominpere leaders twenty years
ago just after the anaugei scup a'etat. He said in
part: "The failure of the present Chinese revolution
1s only of a temporery nature if it should be likened
to the Russian Revo ntion or los. it will take more than
ten years hefore enot hev atsempt at revolution can be
made. But I believe it sheuld te deemed to be more
coineident ia vharacter with the kuseie Revolution of
July l917. whie see to preaLae
evik Revolution
of China in heif
This fereceet trojoo
an tweaty years the
Bolshevik Revelutlo r chins wes risaly reslized us he
expected
PROELT
 2F
Before the Cb)neae Reveta
wee carri es sut
successfully however
hosea  se pan brought
under ovi et int loer e ss
ay pd phe Pron
Curtain There are many 
say she: seographically
Japan will be the wex:
Fe'shovizasron rollowing
North Korea end China
afrale of the cccurrence
of the July aisturbare :n
whiv ey develop into a
Bolshevik Revslution
pairtaie of them
point cut strik.ns rr: eat
berwwen the situetion in
Tzarist Russia in ne lan
Tor' ar I and that
in Japan folloi
that

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.89)
At that time, heavily damaged by war end sufr
from shortage of food, unrest began to prevail amomat
people of Russia. The March Revolution which took pun
1n l917 under this situation easily overthrew the Romm
dynasty, and created the provisional government in ita
place. But when this government was wavering at the y
attack of labor and farmer influences, the Bolshevists
carried out the July disturbance, which developed in
November into the Bolshevik Revolution to seize the entire
political power of the country. Comparing the postwar
situation of defeated Jepan, where the Government is not
sufficiently powerful apd ofaen jeopardized by labor
attack:to
he situetion  Tearist Russie on the eve of
revolution
the rumer punts that the Communist Party
schemes to sive rise to  Juty uprisins of Japan and
develop it into the Bolanevix Revelution
SUCCESS
When tae e
pluse Lenin and
many other Bolens?
steying in Switzerlan.
Impatient as they wre
to ceturn ts their home country
in the turmoil of re
bre wes no pessace
available fer th
wae sil yoing on It was
Germany their en
who rnished them with
transportati on :a
Muaeie through her own
territories
waen on reachine Petersburg,
Lenin and his r
y eitated the people
for
 untc ast ked by
the proyi: one
pies of sarmany. This
Governmen p
andi spped their activities,
and when hey a
Tir Revclatlon phey.
willingly 
n the priseners
of war deteisu
aas aey had lost
confidence f tr
Polshrvsts approached
the germen os
wsewers ef war who
wo detaines
f Russia for cooperation
and reoommnerled
to treir party
The
Germen and
i ereetr nwnbers
their party
 some pf them really
responded to tre 
! s sad sertously vorked
for the Dolshovi e
bhoco foreice prisoners
of war, who n later
i fi uree ia the Soviet
scene, is Marsha 
thon a ajor of the
Austrian Army
sls an and Austrian
prisoners in th t
Be anevas Revelution
was so creat that ty
suecess was
attributed to then
with ths bi wor
i.t Mremlin's
concept of iena
noce l ly be different
from those possonsed
These whe cen
be won over e 
vti at ecueati on are well
treated es the co. tad
while
those
refusing

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosnre to Tokyo's
Despatch no. 620
September 9, 1949.
-8
refusing to accept olshevization are placed under oompulsory
labor because of their labor value, if not, of their politioal
value. It is for this reason that Soviet Russia would not
report the names of the prisoners of war under her control
to the countries to which they belong and easily return
them to their home countries, except in the case where the
repatriates ere so well trained as to be firmly determined
to engage in the revolution of their countries.
It is no wonder that the Kremlin should be intending
to accelerate the Bolshevik Revolution of Japan by returning
the Bolshevized repatriates as their agents.
MIKOYAN IS LMADER OF FOLSHEVIZATION OF JAPAN
It was recently reported thst former Foreign Minister
Molotov wes appointed the supreme leader of the Comaunist
Parties in Asiatic countries
But so far as I know, the
real leader of Asiatic Belshevization is Mikoyan, who
hails frem Armenia cext to Georgia, the native country
of Stalin
The first er the mi asior imposed upon Mikoyan ie.
it is said, te prevent Mao Tze tung from treading the
steps of Tits ef Yugoslevia. the second to Bolshevize
the entire Korea elong the  ines of North Korea, and the
third to realize the Beishev zetion ef Japan. What should
be noted in chis connechion is the fact that the close of
the late wer marked the reveraion ef the Kremlin's strategic
policy towaras Japan Tapen who had been regarded as
forming the front
erieliam, hes become its rear
since her dereat
 sing Japan, e fommer oppressing
nation, as an oppreabed meticn on tae same status with
China. Koree. eto
to is intended to pleee her under the
leadership or Milkoyae, we mimself hails from an oppressed
nation in Asie
The Pslebevtk Mevolotton of china ls already an
established feat.
Bat  ie extremely difficulb to foretell
whether there wiil take place this revolution in Japan.
However. one thing whieh I can predict with certainty
is that if Mikoyan himself should come to stay in the Far
Last, it will be when the Kremlin has gone a step foreward
for enforcing the Belahevik Revolution in Japan beyond
China and Korea

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.90)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAFN
NORTHEAST ASIAN
Action Assigned to
SEP20 1949
Action Takon Noadin
DEPNNTMENT OF STATE
Date of Action
ACTION: FE
NA
U CT.D, oyo
IFO
Action Office S.
Date of
894.00/9-
OLI
Name of Offiver
vo1lin: etecber 12, 1949
CIA
11.N
7ec'd: Sept. 19, 1949 3:12 p.m
fccretu y of Stete,
ashinton.
1049
1-230, Ses0rber 10, 1949.
On optember & the ttorney General's orfice of
the Jopanose overn :cnt ordured the dissolution ef thrce
left-win Forean oratnizetions; The Lee ue of : orcons
Residing in Japen (Zainichi Chosenjin emmei's che
iyagi refecture bren ch of the Hemocr tie Youth Lea ne
of Roreens in Janen ( uinichi chosen inshu  einen o ei),
tnd the iyeci bronch cf the Jorporstioi of Resiatnta n
Japen of she Korean Republic (Zainichi Taikan inkcku
Kyoryumin Den), alon with  hiogeme ( iyami Prohectre)
branch of the ri It-wine Korean Youth Lea uc for
Lstablishin: the Rorean Republic (Toikon : inkou eptoku
Meinen Domei).
According to the . ttorney General, this sosi
was tskeri because of the terroristic activilies f
these or: anizations which are detrimental to
tian of Japan. All  etropoliten Police wer 
in pokyo in anticipation ot violence es e reeu the
order for dissclution. No resistence hes bee
so far, bet "oreae leaders heve indicsted thct 
to opnose threurtrleral means the diusolution of 
organizetions. ith the cissolution order, i
Foreon le:dere were slso pleced under the eat 
purre mekine them ineliyible to hold pul lie erire
(Forcons in Jesan are subject to the purre if 
influentiei mor bers in desi neted ultr. -netlo li
terroristic, :r seoret patriotic scsieties sa
by r0t She ond 550, pnd in vle. mi the
of ore pe in aepen, ore subjeet to ce  nese
in n
ttheposs
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokyo's A-230,
September10,1.949.
RLSTU CTD
-2-
Phe League of Yoreans Residing in Janen is t'e
lergest end jost powerful Korean orgenizstisn, vi' a
membershin of 365,c00. It hes long been urder eo.s dercble
communist influence and its wembers, vith its auti! ery
youth body, the Democratic Youth Lesrue of Ievash. n
Jepen (the I iyeri brench of which was orterel di seivel).
heve f rectently spearheeded disorders end vioe in
clashes with rirht-win Korean organimeticns d he Jese lese
police.
Accordin to the press, ir. L io e   ire
Peod of tic Foreen Dipiomatic  ission in Jepon, as exptessca
approvel of ile Japanese Govern ent's action in prderise
the dissolution of these Yorean oranizatior.
mont thc thirty-six Morean leeders disguel. icI from
holdin public ofcice is Ir. Fin res  ai, meaber f tho
Central ommittee of the Jepan Commanisr Purny end  iviser
to the Lce ue of roreens Residing i Jupon. . in will
be re.uired to resicn bis position with the lomm int
Party within twenty days end is prohibited fcom  in
in any further politicel activity es from c.
SBALD
350
chapinke:mhp

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
SEP2819497
THE
American Embassy,
lile
894.00/9-1249
No. 781
Manila, Philippines, September 12, 1949
RESTRICTED
REC D
Subject:
Filipino Attitude towards Post-war Japan as Exemplified
SEP 22
by Speech of Filipino Diplomat and Comment of Terspaper
Columnist.
894.00/9-1249
ACTION
FE-encs2
INFC
me(NA)
DCR
The Honorable
FoS-ens
T.e Secretary of State,
ITP
Washington, D. C.
OFD
Sir :
1!
I have the honor to transmit herewith the published text of a
statement of September 1, 1949 made by Dr. Bernabe AFRICA, Philippine
Envoy accredited to SCAP, in regard to progress made in Japan in the
four years since that nation's surrender, As Dr. Africa formerly was
Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs his views are likely to carry a
measure of weight within the Philippine Government. Moreover, as the
statement of an informed Filipino official, his words may have
greater influence on Philippine attitudes vis-a-vis Japan than simi-
lar statements released by SCAP or by the United States Government.
In his statement, which is almost entirely laudatory of the
poli ies and accomplishments of SCAP and which evinces a sympathetic
attitude toward Japanese problems, Dr. frica makes statements about
Japan which include the following: Japan has been disarmed and de-
militarized, and those Japanese groups responsible for launching the
country on a career of aggression have been broken up and deprived of
power. Under SCAP's guidance, a democratic constitution has been
adopted and accompanying changes have been made in the country's po-
litical organization. The educational system has been reorganized
and its methods and content redirected along democratic lines. Shin-
toism has been disestablished as a state religion. Equality of the
sexes has become an established fact. Labor unions have been en-
C
ouraged and sweeping land-reforms have been accomplished. (Dr.
FILED
Africa's only unfavorable comment was an assertion that the United
States policy in regard to reparations, though understandable, is re-
grettable because it overlooks the interests of the countries which
suffered most and because it removes a deterrent to future aggressors
Dr. Africa also describes the problems of overpopulation and foodstuf
shortages, points out the related necessity for restoring industry and
FAP
foreign trade, and cites progress made in the direction of restoring
the national economy.
While the passage of time and helpful statements by Filipinos
like Dr. Africa may be expected eventually to soften Filipino atti-
udes toward Japan, it would be a mistake to assume that hatred of the
Japanese by the people of this country has yet been greatly diminished.
Indeed, conversation with numerous Filipinos leaves the impression
that it will be a long time before the people of this country forget
Tnige
RESTRICTED
the
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
American Embassy,
RESTRICTED
Manila, September 12
1949, Despatch no. 781.
the treatment accorded them during the years of Japanese ocoupation.
As an example of this enduring Filipino bitterness, there is en-
2/
closed a column from the Manila Daily News of September 9, 1949, in
regard to three Japanese who are reported to have spent the night of
September 7-8 in Manila while en route to Tokyo from Bangkok, where
two of them attended an ECAFFE meeting and the other a YuCA con-
ference. The author of this column is noted for intemperate language,
but he is probably correct in his exp ased belief that Manila is
not yet a safe place for Japanese.
Respectfully yours,
Myron M. Cowen
Enclosures: att
1. Article by Dr. Bernabe
Africa published in
Manila Bulletin
September 5, 1949.
2. Column "Issues and Men"
by Pedro PADILLA pub-
lished in Manila Daily
News, September 9, 1949.
350
William B. Cobb/Edward E. Rice/pb
RESTRICTED

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRIUTED
Enclosure no. 1 to Despatch no. 781,
dated September 12, 1949, from AmEmbassy,
Manila, entitled "Filipino Attitude
toward Post-war Japan..."
Manila Bulletin 9/5/49
Africa Discusses Japanese Situation
fore any real progreas can be
achieyed in the democratization
On Fourth Anniversary of Occupation
of Japan.
In the field of education, much
has already been accomplished
By DR. BERNABE AFRICA
The old system was discarded.
Philippine Envoy to SCAP, Japan
The educational reforms cover
(Written for the United Press)
the entire system from the elem-
Today (Sept. 1) marks the
Some aspects of the American
entary grades to the universities.
fourth anniversary of the surren-
and British systems have been
New techniques have been intro-
der of Japan to the Allied pow-
adopted by the constitution mak-
duced. The students are taught
ers. Once a mighty and proud em-
The tripartite division of
the basic principle of democracy.
pire, Japan has been defeated and
authority the bill of rights, the
Human dignity is emphasized.
is now under Alied occupation.
The terms of surrender and the
pendent judiciary with power to
bi-cam
system and an inde-
state, but rather the state exists
The people do not exist for the
basic post-surrender policy for Ja-
pass upp the constitutionality
for the people.
pan are harsh, but they are just
of any w, order, regulation or
Institutions of higher learning
for a nation which had embarked
officialt, follow the American
were made co-educational. The
upon aggression and ruthless
pattern. On the other hand, a
new system is đecentralized. The
treatment of thepeople of those
ceremonial chief. executive, the
management of schools is en-
countries occupiè by her armed
choice of the premier, the cabinet
trusted to popularly elected com-
forces.
responsibility to the diet, the po-
missions, making it impossible
There can be no serious dis-
wer of the cabinet to dissolve
for the national government to
pute that Japan has been com-
the diet and the predominance
control educations as was- for-
pletely disarmed and demilitar-
of the house of representatives
merly the case. Persons who sup-
ized. Some Americans, in fact,
over the house of counselors in
ported the militarists and mem-
feel that the disarmament had
bers of ultra-nationalistic organ-
been carried a little too far so
izations have been purged and
that at present there are not
barred from teaching.
enough well-armed police forces
Shrine Shinto, which was a
to maintain internal peace and
state religion before the war and
order.
The Japanese military
responsible for teaching the doc-
machine has been destroyed. War
trine of the divinity-of the em-
criminals have been hanged.
peror and the divine origin、 of
Members of the army, navy and
the Yamato race, was disestab-
air forces and those who had
lished. There is now complete
anything to do with the promo-
separation of church and state in
tion of war of aggression as well
Japan. The Shinto directive pro-
as members of ultra-nationalistic
hibits certain acts of government
organizations have been purged
officials such as sponsorship and
and barred from holding public
support of Shinto, disseminetion
office.
of its doctrine, circulation o of-
The Zaibatsu which, in the
ficial volumes pf Shinto and vi-
past, had supported the military
sits to shrines by Japanese offi-
clique in their expansionist poli-
cials to report on assumption of
cy has been broken up. These
office o on conditions of the
punitive measures have rendered
government.
highly improbable the emergence
Equality of sexes in Japan is
in Japan of another Tojo who
now an accomplished fact. Wom-
may drag the country again into
en are now admitted to institu-
another war of aggression.
DR. BERNABE AE
tions of higher learning. hey
ly from the ashes of war. The
A new Japan is rising gradual-
legislation and
othermatters
rights as men. They can vote
possess cqual civil and political
country is provided with a new
have apparently been borrowed
and be voted upon for any public
ship that is pulling Japan out of
finance and industry —-a leader-
leadership in politics, education,
nese people are duly protected
from the British system.
For the first time, the Japa-
elected to the house of represen-
office. In the last elections se-
veral
women
members were
the chaos into which her pre-war
leaders had driven her to her
rightful place among the free
peoples of the world
The reforms that have been
officials. Japan has revamped
its code of criminal procedure so
against arbitrary acts of public
that the constitutional guaran-
tees can be more effectively en-
forced.
allowing workingmen to union-
labor legislation has been enacted
ize'and giving them shorter hours
tatives.
Under therguidance of SCAP,
put into effect during the last
There is some controversy as
of Jabor and the power of collec-
four years are truly remarkable.
to the wisdom of retaining the
tive bargaining. Japanese work-
They touch all phases of Japa-
emperor institution. Undoubted-
ingmen are no longer exploited
nese life. I can only describe in
ly, SCAP was motivated by prac-
by heartless capitalists as they
a very general way some of these
tical considerations in favoring
were before the war. They now
changes. The task of carrying
the retention of the emperor as
enjoy almost the same privileges
out these reforms is not easy in
chief of state. The emperor to-
as their brothers in the West. In
view of the deep-rooted traditions
day is no longer invested with
spite of these gains, communists
of the Japanese and their feudal
divinity as he was under the Mei-
have infiltered certain labor
background.
ji onstitution. He no longer ex-
unions. It is believed, however,
Under the friendly guidance of
ercises sovereign powers. He is
that communist influence is on
SCAP, the Japanese adopted a
a nominal head, the symbol of
the wane, although for a time
democratic constitution to re-
the state and the unity of his
the situation appeared serious.
place the Meiji Constitution of
people.
The growth of communist influ-
1889 which made it possible for
Before Japan's surrender, the
ence has been arrested. At pre-
the militarists and bureaucrats to
emperor was looked upon as a
sent there are not probably more
establish a totalitarian system.
god by his people.. This attitude
than 100,000 communists in Ja-
For the first time in their long
was assiduously fostered by the
pan. These are found in certain
history, the people of Japan,
militarists and ultra-nationalists
labor unions, among students and
through
their representatives,
since the restoration, especially
teachers and among repatriates
had a say in the making of their
during the decade immediately
from Siberia.
Japanese constitution, sovereign
organic law.
Under the new
to kohesd eut of the
preceding the war. It is necessary
RESTRICTED
powers reside in the people.
head of the Japanese people be-

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRI CTED
(2)
Enclosure no. 1 to Despatch no. 781,
dated September 12, 1949, from AmEmbassy,
Manila, entitled "Filipino Attitude
toward Post-war Japan.. ."
The democratization program
The SCAP program is to elim-
has been extended to the Japa-
inate this American subsidy grad-
nese system of land tenure. The
ually. As food production has
land reforms have two principal
reached probably the saturation
objectives. First, the transfer of
point, Japan will have to stim-
ownership to farmers who actual-
ulate her exports in order to be-
ly till the soil. Second, the im-
come self-supporting.
provement of tenancy practices
SCAP was encouraged by the
for those who cotinue as ten-
steady increase of exportIn
ants. The program is admin-
1947, the total exports of Japan
istered by locally elected com-
amounted to $176,000,000.In
missions representing the ten-
1948, exports jumped to $277,-
ants, owner-cultivators and own-
000,000. In 1949, it is estimated
ers. The local commissions are
that the total exports will ap-
supervised by prefectural com-
proximate $525,000.000. Japan
missions. The central land com-
must have dollar exchange to
mission exercises an over-all su-
buy food and raw materials from
pervision over the carrying out
foreign countries.
of the program of land reforms.
In March, 1949, her industrial
By March 2, 1949, the Japanese
production reached 69 per cent
government had acquired 4,581,-
of the 1930-1934 levels. This is
073 acres, of which 4,389,344
most noticeable in the case of
acres had been sold. Additional
coal, steel industry, chemicals
lands had been acquired by the
and textiles. In order to acquire
government and had been sold to
a balance of payment, Japan has
farmers. The land reforms have
to increase her exports by 600
not totally eliminated the ten-
per cent, or 1.5 billion dollars. It
ancy system but it provides safe-
is doubtful if Japan can realize
guards against objectionable
this objective in view of commu-
practices. Land owners are paid
nist victories in the Asiatic main-
in government bonds, while ten-
land and other obstacles to the
ants are allowed to pay in cash
expansion of her foreign trade.
or on easy installment plan.
The United States policy to-
The land reforms are of far-
wards the reparation is unfor-
reaching significance. It would
tunate. The reason that prompted
be impossible for democracy to
the policy is understandabie. But
take deep root in Japan unless
the policy ignores completely the
the farmers are happy and con-
interests of those countries which
tented. In the past, the political
had suffered most from the last
party that promised amelioration
war. What is worse is that it
of the farmer's lot received his
removes a powerful deterrent to
support.
Communism today
future aggressors. It is hoped
makes very little headway among
that a satisfactory solution may
the farming class.
yet be tound to these controver-
The food situation in Japan is
sial issues.
very serious. Only 16 per cent of
the total area of Japan is arable.
The Pickelle mission has suc-
She has to support a population
ceeded in opening new markets
of 81,600,000 which is increasing
for Japanese products in Latin
roughlyby 1,000,000 every year.
America upon a give-and-take ba-
The Japanese are a very prolific
sis. During the last four years.
race. Women with babies strap-
the progress of Japan towards
ped on their backs are a com-
reconstruction is little short of
mon sight in Japan. The pres-
remarkable. She has adopted the
sure of population upon the land
nine-point stabilization program
is tremendous. Without Amer-
aimed at complete rehabilitation
ican aid, the Japanese will starve.
of her national economy. For
Japan has adopted a system of
the first time since the occupa-
food distributionand rationing
tion, the budget has been ba-
to prevent black market opera-
lanced and inflation checked. In-
tions. Some experts believe that
dustrial production has been
Hokkaido can absorb 6,000,000
bolstered up. Whether she will
Japanese which may: provide a
be entirely self-supporting in a
temporary relief. The Japanese
couple of years is open to serious
wilf have to devise some way to
doubt. SCAP's policy has en-
stop the annual increment of
tered upon the stage of friendly
population. At present Japan is
guidance.
receiving from the United States
The Philippines is naturally
a financial aid of roughly $1,-
interested in the progress of dem-
000,000 daily.
ocratization in Japan. It is hoped
that the Japanese people will
repudiate communism which has
sought the destruction of the ex-
isting order and the enslavement

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
Frelosure no. 2 to Despatch no. 781
dated September 12, 1949, from AmEmbasay,
Manila, entitled "Filipino Attitude
toward Post-war Japan .. ."
Daily News 8/21/49
SSUES AND ME N--Bu Pedro Padilla
Personally, I am willing to
other Liberal, claimed at the
give Senator Carlos Tan credit
time that he got more vafss
for the unfailing consistency of
than. Tan, Lovina was for for-
his political behavior whose cre-
mally protesting Tan's election.
do is simple loyalty.
Bu Tan got to working haed.
Senator Tan has just come
He kept seeing Senate President
from an extensive trip abroad
Avelino again and pleading
because of Elpidio Quirino's so-
with him to do something about
licitude for his good health, and
Lovina's protest. And again
Senator Tan is grateful to El-
Senate President Avelino took
pidio. And to show that he, is
pity on him. In the end Senate
grateful for the trip, Tan. has
President Avelino prevailed on
switched his political loyalty to
Lovina to withdraw his protest
the Keeper of the Orinola.
and let Tan keep kis seat in the
In the near future someone
senate.
else might send Tan on a junket
Tan was grateful to Avelino:
to Paris, all expenses paid, and
for that. During the last tu
Tan would certainly switch his
mitttuous session of the senate,
loyalty to him, consigning El-
when Senate President Avelino
pidio to the blazes. And Tan
was being kicked around by the
would do all that with a straight
very men whom hè had helped
face. He could always find
to power, Tan stuck by him.
good reasons, too, for his change
He admitted openly that he
of allegiance.
could not go against Senator
I recall Tan's political begin-
Avelino because Senator Ave-
nings. In the days preceding
lino had been responsible for
the last senatorial elections Tan
his election to the senate.
was an unknown figure. There
Then when Congress had ad-
were those who thought that-he
journed, Tan began to grow.
wasn't: bright enagh to be a
restive. He wanted & change of
member of Coni Phere
were those too whosthought that
U. S. would be fugt the thind,
he talked too muche
provided it be free and in red.
At any raté, "Tan-had ambi
tions. At that time he wanted
sonable style.
very badly to bécoms a senator.
shmElpinio heard of Tan's pre-
He talked to President Rexas
icament, and forthwith offered
about drafting him as a Liberal
him a berth in the Philippine
United Nations dolegation. It
party senatorial candidate, and
the President merely laughed
didn't take much,effort to per-
at him: Then he came-to Senate-
suade Tan to accept the offer.
President Avelino, and Avelino
When he did accept the offer
laughed at him.
hexplained that h had been
But Tan is a persistent cret-
pesugited upon to do so out of
tured. He started hringinga
his desirc to serve his country.
whole lechon once eweek to the
And now that he is safely
home of Senate Prysident Ave-
batk at home after a most
lino and pleading or his inelu-
ivhotesome vacation at govern-
sion in the senatorial tialet.
mant. expense, he declares that
Out of the simgle goodness of
he will mmpport Elpidio Quéri-
his heart Senats President Ave-
no's candidacy.
lino relented, obarldóked Tan's
Tan hagn't offered any va-
miserable shortoings, and
lid reason for his new love for
managed to get him in the tic-
Elpidio, but I think I know why.
ket.
Elpidio is willing to give him
Then came the election re-
anythiagls and he doesn't have
sults. Tan's election looked
to bring evon a measly leg of
mightly doubtful and shaky be-
lechon to the Place to get what
cause Primitivo Lovina,
an-
he wants.
EST LCTED

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
My dear Mr. Morgam:
Your letter of September 22 to M
a copy of "The Future of Japan" by former
Momura, has been referred to me for reply.
A number of the arguments advanced ky the
(such as those bearing on reparations) have, 
been overtaken by events, but it is of interoms
Division to have the confidential views of a Jameme
of Mr. Nomura's standing. I wish to thank you for 
thoughtfulness in making this article available to us.
Sincerely yours,
-2249
DOR - NE Unit
Anal.
Miles W. Bond
Rev.
Acting Chief
Division of Northeast
Oat.
Asian Affairs
Dist.
Mr. Roy L. Morgan,
Attorney at Law
Banner Buiiding,
Greensboro, North Carolina.
OCT
FE: NA:MGreen: jh
9/29/49
X

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTIO
ROY L. MORGAN
ATTORNEY AT LAW
OIVISION OF BANNER BUILDING
fele
EPARTMEA
9/1.19/49
Personal and Confldential
Honorable James Webb
Under Secretary of State
State Department
Washington, D. C.
894.00/9-2249
Dear Mr. Webb:
I am enclosing a typewritten copy of "The Future of
Japan", written by Kischasaburo Nomura, former Japanese
Ambassador to the United States, who assisted the prose-
cution in some respects during the trial of the Major War
Criminals in Japan.
As you are probably aware, I participated in the
trials as Assistant Counsel in charge of the Investigative
ww
Division of the Prosecution
Sometime ago Admiral Nomura wrote me and enclosed
his article on "The Future of Japan." I paid little atten-
tion to it on receipt. However, having read it in detail
the other day, I thought it might be of interest to the
State Department and I am submitting it for your information.
With kindest regards, I remain,
Sincerely,
OCT111
FILED
RIM:vc
Roy L. Llorgan
1949
Enclosure
OK.
End. neid 9 126/19.
c.ins
S
d

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.96)
Deo 1 1946
This article speaks my common sense view without con-
sulting with any other people.
One of my best freinds of thirty years who was in the
top position of U.S. Navy when the Supreme Commander was U. S.
Army's Chief of Staff wrote me saying "you have a d-- good
man in your country today - Macarthur - He is big and he is
friendly. I can't think of a better man for the job he is
M
now doing." An American who came to Tokio recently, told me
that everyone did know Macarthur is a very fine soldier, but
now understands he is as well an
excellent statesman. whose
record will be written in the world's history. I knew the
General at Jashington, D. C., when he was Captain attached to
the ar Department and I was impressed with his personality
G
3
and thereafter foll wed his careers with interests and I share
these two views mentioned above completely.
6
1
Yow, ab ut my own country, I am sure of such opinion,
-2249
that Japan is destined to collapse financiully ind economically,
in comparatively near future, if we follow the present course,
as surely as the sun rise in the east ind set in the west.
Only way of saving from this calamity is by the concentration
of all efforts by Japanese in every walk of life for the single
urpose of savin the country, under the timely and most able
leadership of the Supreme Jonmander.
Jupan may be in better shape,
some yeurs hence, if helped by U.S.A.
I can't see no other way
left.
Needless to say, Japanese must do everything humanly
possible to help themselves but so ry to say, they are rather
going to precipice.
K. Nomura

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
The Future of Japan
Once we start war, there is a danger of bringing about
anaroly and bankruptoy in the post-war situation even if we
win the war.
The terrorism of Hitler is not something that last
forever.
We must
prepare the post-war plans. The World War II
occurred because of our mistake both in drafting the Versailles
Treaty and in managing the post-war situation.
This
time we must
not repeat the same mistake as we did before.
These were the opinions
of American statesmen.
They studied the post-war problems, step by
step, even in war-time.
This is what they call "Win the war, win
the peace!"
On the contrary, however, we Japanese determined to die
with our backs to
the wall if we couldn't win the war, and never
gave
a thought to post-war plans.
That is the economic situation of our contry today?
The production of commodities in Japan falls, far short of
the amount neceusury to maintain the minimum standard of living
for 80,000,000 peop1e.
As regards our food situation, we are no
longer in a position to import rice from Korea and Formosa, soya
beans (miso, soy sauce, and tofu
are
made from this bean) from
Manchuria and sugar from Formosa and
the ex-mandated South Sea
islands.
In Hokkaido and other home areas we have started to bring
waste land under cultivation. However, setting aside for the
moment the
scheduled cultivation of 1, 500,000 cho-bu (acres) of
land it is almost impossible to
expect a great contribution to
the urgent solution of our food problem if we, officials and
civilians alike, do not make geeat efforts to establish houses,
hospitals, schools, etc., grantin: that the use of machinery for
cultivation is not a problem as hitherto.
For the
time being
we must estimate the food shortage as being for one
or
two mon ths
a year in spite of the good hurvest this year.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
There is a shortage of 4 million houses because, in addition
to the aoute shortage of 2 million homes, 2 million more were
burnt.
To build these houses is a task whioh would be difficult
to accomplish in 10 or 20 years.
Japan lost everything and became extremely fatigued during
this long drawn-out war. Furthermore, we have to roam under the
heavy burden of reparations. We must acknowledge that the
reparations is a really heavy burden. It is known to all that
the coal production today is a great bottleneck in the reconst-
ruction of industries and the operation of railways. Te are now
trying to make up for this coal shortage partly by electric power,
but half of the thermal electric generators have been earmarked
for reparations.
Iron and steel as well as coal are the fundamental elements
of every industry, but their output is now very small in Japan.
Moreover, 70 or 80 of the production capacity will go towards
reparations. We cannot predict when we can again build ferro-
concrete houses or iron bridges by ourselves.
It is hard to repair the worn-out railways. More than 90
of the ship-building fucilities will go for reparations, leaving
construction facilities for only 150, 000 tons.
Before the var, shippin Was one of Jupan's rides, second
only to that of the Us: and Britain. e c uld see our slips with
the rising-sun flag all over the world, London, New York, Rio de
Janeiro, uenos lires, Sydney, Lelbourne, etc.
But this is now an
old tale.
en shall we again see the risin -sun lc in these
ports?
All the aluminium  rotrein facilities will o for reparations,
and the lo ses to our chemical industry are reat.
Our spianin industry has just be un to revive by importing
American raw cotton. Kowever, it is just like job-working because it
is controlled by the V. S. Army.
But even then we must be thankful
because it is helping us to recover.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
3.
In short, post-war Japan with a population far greater than
its ability to support is in a position not unlike that of a head
of a household trying to support a large family, although lacking
the ability to do so.
This gives rise to the population problem.
Together with the necessity of cultivating national strength and of
supporting as great a population as possible, there arises the prob-
lem of ad justing the population so that it will not be increased
beyond the capacity of the nation to sulport.
We must realize that
Japan is today in a very weakened condition and sorely in need of
some
effective remedy which will bring her back to normal condi tions.
This effective remedy is nothing other than our wholehearted efforts
to increase production and to strive daily for the improvement of
our minimum livelihood.
Since remaining post-war stocks of various
commodities today have already touched bottom, we must at all costs
look to
the Uni ted States and other countries for aid in supplying
us wi th
those commodities which we are not able to provide for our-
selves.
It is of no use to raise wages if commodities are lacking.
Even though the 5o0-yen limit is raised to a thousand, this would
mean nothing, so long as it merely meant that the prices of commo-
dities doubled also, or it would mean that even a
thousand yen would
be insufficient if the prices tripled.
The prices
of commodities
today are continuing to rise.
At a time when even
the absolute
minimum requirements are lacking, the risin: wages in all fields
naturally means
an increase in the prices of commodities also. Thus,
wages and
the prices of commodities are playing a sort of see-saw
game and gradually developing into endless inflation.
The raising
of wages, therefore, does not by any means
serve as a fundamental
settlement of the question.
In a vost-war Japan which is unable to produce even one-fifth
of its pre-war production, we must first of all awaken spiritually

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
4.
and strive to inorease prodution, while realizing that there will
always be a shortage of commodities which must be endured. This is
the only road towards the revival of Japan.
Thoughtless strikes and
sabotage only mean that production will be further lowered and that
inflation will become increasingly severe, until finally it will
result in
the disgraceful enactment of a stru,gle in which society
finds itself at odds with one another for selfish gains.
Japan will
thus fall into a bottomless pit from which it will be impossible for
her to arise.
Heretofore, our foresight into the future has not always been
accurate.
In the European war, Japan was too eager in her attempts
lest she "miss the bus", so to speak.
She did not even have the
patience to verify clearly the destination of the bus.
There should
have been two views with regards to
the results of the Russo-German
war.
One of
these was that the war
would end in a complete victory
for Cermany within a few months, as Germany claimed.
The o ther was
that it would be a repetition of Mapoleon's failure or a repetition
of the failure of the war against Chungking.
However, our Government
subjectively took
the
former view.
This was
one of
the reasons for
its eagerness not to
"miss the bus".
gain, another example of
the same kind, because the Anglo-Saxon peoples hate war, we felt that
we could win
the war if we possessed a determined spirit, success-
fully managed
the "co-prosperity sphere" und attained self-sufficiency.
This was
one way of lookin at it.
In addition to
this hatred of war,
the democracies would be placed at a disadvan tage in the early stages
of the war because of
their psycholo ical unpreparedness for war.
But they do not acknowledge defeat because of one or two failures.
On the contrary, they would solidify their fighting spirit, conduet
a vast mobilisation of their natural resources and make a large-
scale counter-offensive.
This is a fact wiich is borne out by history.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
5.
Therefore, it is dangerous to start a war thoughtlessly taking into
consideration only the victories in the early stages of the war.
Unless there exist well-founded plans for a long drawn-out war, it
is impossible to start a war so easily. If it is to be a long
dwawn-out war, it wauld become very disadvantageous to a country who
is poor in natural resources such as ours. Not only that but
politically it is clear that it would be affording an opportunity
to third-power nations such as the Soviet Union. This is also
another way of looking at the question.
An imerican admiral, a friend of mine, pointed out that the
Tri-Partite iact was unnatural.
He doubted that a military power
and a naval power which were
so far apart geographically could
effectively help each other.
It would be merely natural for Japan
to ally herself with nations possessing sea power such as the
United States and reat Britain. He went on to say that Japan, by
preservin intact one of the three most powerful navies, could by
that fact al ne possess an influential voice in any peace conference.
I myself was quite in agreement vith his views but because of my
position as ambassacor, I refrained from
expressing vooal agreement.
Cur country,in considering the several alternatives offered, made
its decision suhjectively based on wishful thinking rather than by
calmly grasping the true facts.
It became evident later that this
method was based on an illusion.
Similar to her views with regard
to war, her views with regard to peace are a lso very naive.
There
existed considerable evidence that Japan considered the -otsdam
Declaration
to suit her own advantage.
Then it gradually became
known to
the general public that this declaration was one which
possessed a severity hitherto unknown with regard to a defeated
nation. This is seen in the fact that official and private property
in foreign countries amounting to more than one hundred billion yen
have entirely been lost; that Japan's territory has been reduced to

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
6.
half; that the army, navy and airforce have been prohibited; that all
military and naval arsenals, all facilities for manufaoturing arms
and airplanes, 80% of steel producing facilities, more than 90% of
ball bearing, 50% of machine tools, in other words about 75% of
all her heavy industries, have become the object to reparations.
Facking and crating for shipping plants of maohinery for reparations
alone involve a great task costing forty billion yen.
We also lack the quality of thinking rationally of things.
It is also true in school education wherein the pupils are only made
to memorise. No efforts are made to go beyond this, to enable the
pupils to grasp the truth as a result of meditation. It is indeed,
a very out-moded system, especially when it comes to political
matters. It is regretful but true that those who study the new
Constitution and are interested in it number only a sad few among
the people.
As a result of this fact the people are always dragged along
by a few active leaders--regardless of whether these leaders be
good or bad. Viewed politically, the people are led like sheep
by the old feudal clans, or ut other times, by the political parties
or by the militury clique.
The present numerous labor movements
mi ht be classified as just one of these instances. and today they
are content to let matters go on just as the occupation army directs.
However, the occupution forces no doubt cannot depend on such
people.
We must abandon our old opportunist policy, possess a new
strong belief, and foster our ability to decide properly between
right and wrong. e are however, not so evil as a few foreigners
seem
believe nor are we people entirely lacking in common sense.
If we
ire dra ged uround in the wron direction so much, there comes
a time when we will gradually uwaken from the errors we have made.
The pendulum today is swining from the right to
the extreme left
but in a year or two it will no doubt swing back to the right.
during this time, nitional society will increasingly crumble, and

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
7.
economic difficulties will continue with serious conditions
aggravating.
Therefore, before we are pulled around too much, we
must regain our common sense.
Some of the high Covernment officials
are saying in a breezy manner thut the  rices of commodities are
stablised, that currency in circulation is not as great as the
figures vould show because lar e part seems to lie hoarded in
the homes of
the people and that
therefore there is nothing to
worry about.
If we really could
be so optimistic, it would be
most fortunite indeed.
Lowever,
they are setting up a very loose
financial plan which exceeds l00 billion yen.
They claim they can
cope with the revenue in this regard from the capital levy this year,
which is
be collected all at one time.
For the next fisoal year,
they say that by encouraging sivins from now they will make up the
deficit -- I don't know what this would amount to but considering
the
tremendous occupation costs as well as the
transportation costs
for
removin the facilities set aside for reparations, the figures
are bound to astronomical.
If the savings campaign does not
succeed,
there would he no
o ther way left but
to resort to excessive
issue of
bank notes as is practiced in Uhina.
The rate
of the
Chinese
currency to
the American dollar is some 5,000 to
1 at present.
Who can uarantee that Japan will not be pluced in a similar
condition?
Did not the Russian ruble and the German
mark become
almost valueless followiny the first World War?
In the United States, it is reported
that discussions are
taking place to alleviate taxes and to redeem public bonds, aiming
at a so und budget of about 30 billion dollars.
Japan's financial
and economic ability amounts to perhaps 1/20 of that of
the United
States.
There exist,
therefore, natural limits
to
the amount of
the budget which she can use during one year.
Can we remain
indifferent and allow the
compiling of a budget including occupation
costs and transportation costs for removing reparation facilities
which far
exceeds
the national ability?

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
8.
In Soviet Russia also the fourth five-year plan has already
been announoed and the results of its first year have been
officially reported. When sovereignty was restored to the Emperor
by the Meiji Restoration and the feudal system gave away to the new
prefectural system, there was a short period of domestio confusion.
About this time, Koin Kido, one of the three big heroes of the
Restoration and grand father's of war guilt Kido, who is now facing
the trial at the International Military Tribunal, dedicated an ode
to a dead friend. This ode became a favorite of later generations.
I happened to see it written on a scroll when I travelled through
Sapporo the other day and I copied it.
The lone candle shines cold and bright before my eyes
As it sit and think with infinite feeling.
I turn my head and look for my old friend,
But he is no more.
Should not man necessarily strive for fame?
"ith the country in turmoil for long years
And tens of thousands dead,
The Imperial lalace has changed its aspects a number of times.
The years are flowing like water, never to return,
And man resembles grass or tree, competing for the fleeting
glory of spring.
The future fate of our conntry is by no means an easy one.
What shoul be done with the thirty millions of our people?
I sit in the mounta ins in the middle of the night,
Unable to sleep;
And the mountains are filled vith the sound of wind and rain.
At that time, our population vas some 30 millions, but now it
is about 80 millions. Furthermore, our territory has been reduced.
Even at the time of the Ieiji Restoration, Kido entertained grave
apprehensions with regurd to the future of the country, but now our
difficulties are ten times reater than at that time.
We must deeply reflect and repent on this tragic situation Which
is the result of our past crimes, and we must proceed on the road to
a new peace with valour.
Ever since the termination of War, we have been more or less
dumbfounded und have done nothing. This may be an inevitable situa-
tion. But let us not talk of the past, and as for the future, let

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
9.
us utilise to the utmost our productive powers and our land both
of which have been reduced to half. By doubling and tripling our
efforts let us aim for self-sufficienoy and make up for the
inevitable deficit by trade. The situation is there is a lack of
materials and a surplus of manpower. Therefore, we must for the next
few years be resigned to the fact that the insufficiency will last
for some time. Thus we must try to promote our production as much
as possible and obtain the help of the occupation foroes in things
which we cannot by ourselves accomplish and put up with the minimum
standard of living. Ye must proceed step by step by our
own sweat
and strive to improve the situation.
At a time when the absolute quantity is insufficient, the
social equilibrium would be wrecked and the whole nation would be
thrown into confusion if one group shauld pursue their own selfish
ends.
It is a time in which morality in Japan has degraded and the
honest are always losing. Iropriety and courtesy have vanished and
freedom is practised as license. Burglary has increased and no
doubt this reveals the actual situation in all strata of society.
This situation can be a source of social revolution. Therefore, we
must develop our ability in order to be able to judge all kinds of
ideologies and their merits and demerits. I feel greatly encouraged
that there are a few partiots who do not lose their self-respect and
will to help themselves and who by this are trying to improve the
national and social situation.
There are aspects in which we must
proceed with caution but on the other hand we must not be
overly
pessimistic.
After t e first Morld Tar, Russia, Italy, ind Germany vere
hit to the depths by poverty and internal confusion and the
necessity for the
iron-handed policy of Stalin, Mussolini and
Hitler was felt.
These countries invariably adopted totalitarian
policies.
But after seeing that Stalin was the only one who succeeded

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.96)
10.
there are factions that claim there can be reconstruotion only after
destruction. As there would be many dying of starvation after the
destruction and this would necessitate many years even to initiate
reconstruction, we can not by any means agree with such an opinion.
Fost-war management is indeed difficult
but this diffioulty is
the responsibility imposed on our generation. According to the new
Constitution the sovereignty lies with the people and the Diet is
the Supreme organ of the national power. If that is the case, the
great work of reconstruction of the country lies in the responsibility
of the entire nation. The old and young, men and women, all in
accord, must survive the difficulty and poverty and proceed in their
endeavour for a just peace. In order to attain this objective it
is necessary for the time being to have a truce between labour and
FW
capital and to suspend the right to strike. The Cabinet and the
Diet, which represent the nation, must in view of the present
situation in Japan quit fighting until definite prospec:s for the
reconstruction of Japan are in sight, und set up a coalition Cabinet.
18
We must all cast aside petty differences and work for a great
为
unity for the reater cause and thus, throug the concerted
G
efforts of the entire nation, inerease the chances for overcoming
6
the difficulties.
1
2
2

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.97)
Office of the United States
C
Political Adviser for Japan
fel
Tokyo, September 27, 1949
No。 673
RESTRICTED (For Department use only).
REC D
OCT 31
Subject: Agricultural Land Commission Elections.
ACTION
FE
INFO
894.00/9-2749
DCR
OLI
The Honorable
ITP
The Secretary of State,
EUR'x
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose (1) a copy of a memorandum for
record on the results of the August 18, 1949, election of local
Jand comaissions prepared by the Argiculture Division of the Natural
2/
Resources Section, General Headquarters, and (2) a tabulation of
the results of the September 20, 1049, election of prefectural land
commissions. In as much as the memorandum was provided on a personal
basis without official clearance, it is requested that no reference
ho made to the memonandum as such outalde the Department.
While the Department may wish to mubject the electlon data to
detailed analysis by the Division of Research for Far East, attention
is invited to the following points.
1. Both the local and prefectural elections evoked a high degree
of interast and participation, not only vignifying a vital interest
in the land reform program but also providing some indication of
present political trende at mid-point between the January 1949 House
of Represontatives election and the April 1950 House of Councillors
election.
2. In the local olections, independent candidates won more than
ei ghty per cent of the meats. with the bulk of the balance going to
candidatee clearly affiliated with conservative political parties.
In the profectural elections, however, independent candidates won
less than sixty per cent of the seats, with Socialist Party candidates
leading Conservative Party candidates in the balance. Therefore it
FILED
would appear that many of the indeponients elected in the local elec.
tions threw their support to Socialist Party candidates in the pre
fecturl clections. (The prefectural land commissioners are elected
by vote of the lccal land commiesioners.)
3. Communist
FAP
RESTRICTED (For Department use only).
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 673,
September 27, 1949.
-2-
3. Communist returns in both elections were negligible.
4. It is understood that both the Democratic Liberal and the
Comunist Parties campaigned strenuously for the election of their
oandidates.. However, the political significance of the election
returns may be somewhat muted by the fact that in these elections the
political platform of the parties concerned apparently carried less
weight than the personal qualifications of the individual candidate.
The Mission will endeavor to procure further data on the elections,
particularly on the breakdown of the vote by category of those eligible,
so that a more detailed analysis will be possible. However, it is
understood that such data customarily take some time to compile.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1. Copy of memorandum for
record dated September 8,
1949, subject: "Results
of Second Election of
Local Agricultural Land
Commissions, 18 August
1949". prepared by Nat ural
Resources Section, General
Headquarters.
2. Copy of tabulation on
"Election of Prefectural
Land Commiseion", September 20
1949。
350/502
BCoolidgeshh
Parohment mat to Department.
RESTRICTED (For Department use oniy).

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED (For Department use only).
No. 673 dated 8
1949, frém Office of t
States Political Advi
Japan, Tokyo, subjeot
cultural Land Comaission
Elections".
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Resources Section
8 September 1949
SUBJECT: Results of Second Election of Local Agricultural Land
Commissions, 18 August 1949
1. On 3 September 1949, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
furnished NR/A the preliminary official summary of the results of
the election of city, town, and village agricultural land commissions.
Election was held 18 August 1949 (as provided by Cabinet Order 224,
20 June 1949) to choose 10 commissioners for each of 11,O43 local
commissions. Under Agricultural Land Adjustment Law these local
commissions are entrusted with primary responsibility for control
of purchase. sale, and rental of agricultural lands, as well as for
classlfication and consolidation of holdings.
2. Eligible voters were divided into three categories:
a. Category 1:  farmers who lease and cultivate more than
2 tan (Hokkaido, 5 tan) of agricultural
land.
b. Category 2: farmers who lease to cultivators more than
2 tan (Hokkaido, 5 tan) of agrieultural
land.
c. Category 3:
cultivators not inoluded under Category 1
or 20
These categories replace the old categories of tenants, landlords, and
owner cultivators, who, in the original elections of land commissions
held between 20 and 31 December 1946, were represented by 5. 3, and 2
commisstoners, respectively. The shift in ownership of agrioultural
land which resulted from the land reform program reduced the peroentage
of agricultural land cultivated by tenant farmers from 46 to 12 per-
cent. This change required that categories be re-defined and repre-
sentation on commissions be changed to conform to the new pattern of
ownership and cultivation.
3. The Local Autonomy Law (Law No. 67, 17 April 1947, as amended)
provides that:
a。
Where
RESTRICTED (For Department use only).

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 673, September 27,
1949.
a. Where the number of eligible candidates for each category
equals the number of vacancies, no election shall be held, and the
candidates shall be declared automatically elected.
b. Where fewer candidates run for a given category than the
number of vacancies, a subsequent re-election must be held.
4. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry report summarized
as inclosures 1 and 2, is a preliminary report and contains a few
minor inconsistencies but is substantially correct.
. 5. Of a total of 11, O43 city, town, and village precincts, no
election took place (in accordance with par 3r. above) in 4,625 pre-
cincts, or 42 percent of the total (see inclc re 1). The number of
precincts in which no vot ing occurred varied widely by prefectures,
ranging from 10 percent in Akita to 73 percent in Shiga. Details are
not now available, but Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry estimates
on the basis of data received that in approximately 30 percent of the
precincts, elections were held for all three categories. The high
percentage of automatic elections of candidates should not be assumed
to indicate necessarily either lack of interest or failure to achieve
a reasonably democratic choice of representatives. It is reported that
burakus generally appeared more concerned to secure representation on
a geographic basis than on the basis of the three categories,.and ac-
cordingly, in many instances decided in informal pre-election agreements
to throw their support solidly to selected candidates. The balanse of
the candidates usually withdrew promptly to avoid probable defeat and
conseguent loss of face. In general, competition for office. was most
active in outlying districts.
6. In further support of the belief thet intorest ran high despite
the large number of non-contest ed electione, it should be pointed out
that where electians were held, approximately 78 peroent of all those
eligible voted. The percent of eligible men who voted exceeded women
in the same catogory by a substantial amount, though of the votes cast,
approximately 45 percent were cast by women. As in the first election,
about l00 women geined seats. almost without exception representing.
category 2, the owner class.
7. 1n 435 precincts, a re-election will be required in accordance
with par 3u above, aince there were fewer candidates than vacancies.
8. On the average, four of the ten newly elected commission mem-
bere served on the original commisslon. About 90 peroent of the in-
cumbent candidates were re-elected.
9. The election aleo demonstrated that Japanese farmers apparently
were unimpressed
RESTRICTED (For Department use only).

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 673, September 27,
1949
-3-
were unimpressed by the extensive propaganda campaigns of leftist
and communist elements. The communists elected only 953 commissipners
of a total of l10,723, or substantially less than one percent. (See
inclosure 2.) The Denocratic Socialists elected 4,532 commissioners,
while the combined total of successful candidates of the People's
Cooperative, Labor Farmer, Reformative, Farmers Union, and New Liberal
parties was 1, 200. By far the strongest party showing was made by the
Democratic Liberal and Democrat parties, where combined total was
12,850 commissioners, but the total of successful independent candidates,
91,188, accounted for 82.3 percent of all commiseioners elected.
10. The results of the election indicate that (a) despite non-
conformity to the U.S. pattern of election procedure, the elections
may, as claimed, have resulted in choice of representatives in an
essentially democratic spirit, and (b) Japanese farmers have expressed
themselves as overwhelming conservative in political philosophy.
2·Incls
as indic in par 4
Preliminary Results
RESTRICTED (For Department use only).

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
Deapatch No. 673, Septembar 27,
1949.
COPY
PRELIMINARY RESULTS OF THE 2ND ELECTION OF THE LOCAL AGRICULTURAL
LAND COMMISSION
Num-
Number
Number
Number
Percent
Percent
ber
of Pre-
of Pre
of com-
of
of new
of
cincts
cincts
missions
non-
members
com-
where
where re-
vot ed
voters
on com-
mis-
no voting
election
missions
sions
for any
(B)
required
(A)
category
Prefecture
(B)
Hokkaido
273
100
37
31
171
27
55
Aomori
162
35
22
7
127
24
60
Iwate
231
84
36
21
147
25
54
Miyagi
204
26
13
1
178
20
54
Akita
224
22
10
3
201
15.
55.
Yamagata
230
32
14
6
197
16
55
Fukushima
390
74
19
5
316
16
59
Ibaraki
371
146
39
36
224
25
61
Tochigi
177
61
34
2
116
18
64
Gumma
208
80
38
2
128
18
63
Saitama
338
71
21
4
267
20
54
Chiba
313
149
48
12
164
31
67
Tokyo
102
53
52
5
48
28
52
Kanagawa
150
77
51
56
73
19
60
Niigata
395
124
31
271
18
62
7
Toyama
257
170
66
19
86
15
61
Ishikawa
204
134
66
6
70
20
63
Fukui
174
33
19
1
241
12
(2)
Yamanashi
206
97
47
24
109
15
62
Naganc
383
194
51
10
189
19
71
Gifu
330
174
53
2
156
24
65
Shizuoka
310
196
63
26
114
19
66
Aichi
229
168
73
9
61
19
69
Mie
320
171
53
16
249
23
57
Shiga
166
122
73
3
44
4
80
Kyoto
224
127
57
698
97
32
66
Osaka
215
149
69
65
22
55
Hyogc
381
213
56
168
23
58
Nara
143
92
64
3
51
20
60
Wakayama
211
149
71
7
62
26
62
Tottori
181
89
48
6
92
18
61
Shimane
265
94
35
7
171
14
59
Okayama
380
55
14
18
324
30
49
Hiroshima
354
149
42
26
204
25
53
Yamaguchi
211
48
23
8
163
29
62
RESTRICTED
(For Department use only).
Tokushima

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
EncIosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
673. September. 27, 1949.
-5-
PRELIMINARY RESULTS OF THE 2ND ELECTION OF THE: LOCAL AGRICULTURAL
LAND COMMISSION (Continued)
Num-
Number
Number
Number
Percent : Percent
ber
of Pre-
of Pre-
of com-
of
of new
of
cincts
cincts
missions
-non-
members
com~
where
where re-
voted
voters
on com-
mis
no voting
election
missions
sions
for any
(B)
required
(A)
category
Prefecture
(B)
%
Tokushima
139
50
36
1
82
30
60
Kagwa
172
84
49
11
87
21
57
Ehime
263
144
55
7
119
25
54
Koshi
186
87
47
20
94
29
50
Fukuoka
302
165
55
10
137
18
65
Saga
1131/
44
39
3
69
19
60
Nagasaki
174
67
39
7
107
41(?)
(?)
Kumamoto
320
129
40
7
186
18
60
Oita
246
74
30
4
172
12
(2)
Miyazaki
9.5
10
11
1
85
27
55
Kagoshima 122
13
11
108
38
76
TOTAL
11.043
4625
42
435
6,390
222/
602/
Note:
Exclusive Ogi-gun.
2
Arithmetic means of the ratio of all prefectures.
47
Classification
RESTRICTED (For Department use only).

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
673, September 27, 1949.
CLASSIFICATION OF COMMISSIONERS BY POLITICAL INCLINATION
People's
Democratic Demo- Social- Com-
Cooperative;
Prefecture
Liberal
crat
ist
m-
Labor
Inde-
nist
Farmer
pendent
TOTAL
Reformative;
Farmers
Union;
New Liberal;
Others.
Hokkaido
8
7
15
66
2,501
2,597
Aomori
226
159
63
34
15
1,112
1,609.
Iwate
24
15
1
2,236
2,280
Miyagi
7
13
6
2,063
2,089
Akita
1,247
454
33
523
2,257
Yamagata
139
13
123
25
1,990
2,292
Fukushima
1,670
512
29
1,682
3,893
Ibaraki
194
17
64
33
161
3,161
3,630
Tochigi
185
37
134
19
30.
1,362
1.767
Gumma
169
406
235
20
9
1,254
2,093
Saitama
340
54
172
31
2
2,826
3,425
Chiba
588
122
40
2,380
3,130
Tokyo
380
98
8
569
1,055
Kanagawa
509
43
137
4
4
817
1,514
Niigata
216
51
494
53
9
3,420
40243
Toyama
619
313
207
11
650
716
2,516
Ishikawa
369
399
68
23
1,238
2,097
一m
Fukui
36
4
3
1,630
1,713
Yamanaahi
85
36
254
43
38
1,573
2,029
Nagano
249
123
208
129
33
3,103
3,845
Gifu
83
4
45
32
3,181
3,345
Shizuoka
208
10
71
18
35
2,707
3,049
Aichi
6
4
10
7
2,582
20614
Mie
243
60
31
2,840
3,174
Shiga
62
8
19
3
1,565
1,656
Kyoto
10
13
4
1
2,222
2,250
Osaka
19
5
23
11
1
2,047
2,106
Hyogo
747
229
65
anve
2,780
3,821
Nara
16
11
9
2
1,398
1,436
Wakayama
76
19
4
1
1,994
2,094
Tottori
6
23
19
4
1.753
1,805
Shimane
3
4561
32
28
2,560
2,627
Okayama
18
28
32
7
3,738
3,828
Hiroshima
22
27
12
3
3,480
3,550
Yamaguchi
61
9
19
1
2,009
2,100
Tokushima
RESTRICTED (For Department use only).

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's. Despatch No.
673, Sept.ember 27, 1949.
-7-
CLASSIFICATION OF COMMISSIONERS BY POLITICAL INCLINATION (ContInued)
People's
Democratic Demo- Social- Com-
Cooperative;
Prefecture Liberal
crat
ist
mu-
Labor
Inde-
nist
Farmer; pendent
Reformative;
TOTAL
Farmers
Union;
New Liberal;
Others.
Tokushima
15
67
9
19
1,210
1,320
Kagwa
2
15.
16
1
1,657
1,691
Ehime
28
18
96
10
3.648
2,713
Kochi
50
13
10
4.
1,709
1,792
Fukuoka
156
25
84
25
79
2,813
3,182
Saga
71
44
2
974
1,095
Nagasaki
12
3
1,662
1,681
Kumamoto
1,098
94
11
1,923
3,126
Oita
486
95
17
1,834
2.432
Miyazaki
244
39
3.8
673
959
Kagoshima
58
59
1
1,073
1,203
TOTAL
12,850
4,532
953
1,200
91,188 110,723
RESTRICTED (For Department use only).

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED (For Departmet use only)
Enclosure No,-2 to D
No. 673 dated Be
1949, from Office of U
States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, subject:
cultural'Land Commission
Elections"
COPY
ELECTION OF PREFECTURAL LAND COMMISSION
Prefecturea
Candidates
New Commissioners
Total
BCDEFGH
J
Grand Total 1633 202 264 63 110 9 55
58 88 21 2 1 0 3 4 17 263
Hokkaido.......25
1
4
2
1
3
616754？
Aomori..50
11
8
7
2
2
6
2
1
Iwate.48
16
6
224141
1
2
2
Miyagi..37
1
4
エ4
2331
12
2
Yamagata.......38
8647
1
32
Fukushima.......39
1
Ibaraki.......44
2
10
Tochigi.26
1
2
1
6
1
2
Gunma.
121121
4227
421251113423
4
2667147384655794834
Saitama36
Chiba34
Toky...28
5
2
Kanagawa.......23
12
4
Niigata34
3
2
1
Toyama23
6
1
1
3
1
1
Ishikawa......31
5
2
13 32
5
Fukui28
1
Yamanashi......37
6
3
Naganc43
1
11
3
12
1
1
Gifu45
11
6
Shizuoka49
6
12
51333371322364212
42
Aichi.27
1
2
Mie4
2
Shiga45
424938
81163
Kyoto40
2
1
Oska26
1
Hygo4
1
4
1
Nara27
10
Wakayama.......39
3
7
Tottorio.20
10
8
2
Shimane..38
8.5
3
2
3
2.
5786769
Okayama....38
1
2
1
Hiroshima......52
1
36452
1
2333
Yamaguchi......39
2
2
Tokushima.....34
HH
1
Kagawa..20
Ehime.35
1
Kochi
RESTRICTED (Fer Department use only).

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyb!s
Despatch No. 673, September 27,
1949.
ELECTION OF PREFECTURAL LAND COMMISSION (Continued)
Prefectures
Candidates
New Commissionera
Total A B C D E F A B C D E F G H I J
Kochi.42
12336
19.42
121 52
311
33126
11114
Fukuoka........23
131
Saga。。。。。。。。。。33
Nagasaki.......28
Kumamoto.......45
Oita。44
4
Miyazaki.......24
3
1
Kagoshima......46 21 17
2
5
Remarks: No data for G, H, I, and J in Candidates' column.
Ao
Democratic Liberal
B。
Socialist
Democrat,
Communist
People's Cooperatives
Reformist
Labor & Farmer
New Farmer
Miscellaneous
J。
Independent.
RESTRICTED (For Department use only).

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRICTED
orficaor
FAR EASTERN AFFALRS
881
BATE: September 28
TO
NA - Mr. Bond
BIRECION
Aomartment of Stata
FROM : NA - Mr. Green NUG
SUBJECT:
Tokyo's 620, September 9, 1949
POLAD forwards a significant article in a Japanese
periodical by Fuse Katsuji on "Chances for a Bolshevik Revo-
lution in Japan". Fuse is a noted authority on Soviet affafrg
OC/R
This Document
and has had interviews with both Lenin and Stalin. After
reviewing Soviet policy objectives on the Asiatic mainland,
Japanese conditions and those which prevailed in Russia in l9i7.
Both countries, he points out, had emerged from disastrous mili-
tary adventures resulting in acute economic dislocation.
In both instances, he says, the discredited militaristic
bureaucracies were supplanted by liberal regimes (Kerensky
Government and the Japanese occupation. As the Kerensky
Government succumbed to the Bolshevik revolution in Novembet, 19l
in the face of labor and agrarian unrest, so do the Communists
hope that through an all-out labor offensive the Communists ll
come to power in Japan. Fuse also sees & parallel between
Lenin's use of German PoW's in Russia to undermine the Kerene
Government and present Soviet use of Japanese repatriates in
8
Japan.
49
According to Fuse, the Soviets will concentrate upon the
oppressed nation concept--oppressed by U.S. "imperialist
colonization"--in setting the stage for their all-out effort
at bolshevizing Japan.
S
1
m
DC.
A1
Reい
Ce:
RESTRICTED
FE:NA:MGrecn:db

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.98)
THE FOREIGN SIRVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, October 4, 1949
ASIAN AFFAIRS
No。 687
1949
RESTRICTED
REC'D
894.00/10-449
OCT 14
Subject: Foreign Office Populer Lecture Program.
ACTION
FE
The Acting Folitical Adviser has the honor to refer
to his despatch no. 590 cf August 27, 1949, transmitting
INFOR
a memorandum regarding the Foreign Ministry's lecture
DCR
progrem in Hokkaido, and to enclose a second memorandum
OLI
prepared by a member of the Japanese Ministry of Foreign
POS
Affairs summarizing observations made during the course
EUR/x
of further lectures on the international situation. The
EUR
purpose of these lectures is to combat Soviet propaganda,
OFD
which is directed chiefly against the United States and
ITP
spread by "Akahata" and other Communist publications, by
Party meetings, and in various other ways.
c
During the period from July 20 to August 31, the
Foreign Office sent out 56 lecturers, who gave 3i2 lec-
tures. These meetings have apparentiy been well received
and have excited lively interest.
As is natural, many of the questions put to the
speakers coincided with those put in Hokkaido In addi-
tion to such questions as whether the United States would
withdraw from Japan in the event of war with the Soviet
Union, questioners manifested considerable preoccupation
with Occupation and economic problems. Identical ques-
tions were raised in different places as to the compara-
tive figures for the costs of American aid to Japen and
of the costs of the Occupation to Japan, and severel
queries revealed a fear that Japan might become a mercan-
tile colony of the United States. Questions on the
United States dealt largely with labor problems, while
those on the U.S. S.R. showed the effect of the plausible
half-truths of Communist propaganda.
Enclosure:
FILED
Summary of observations made
by an official of Japanese
FAP
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
after recent lectures in
Japan.
Parchment Mat to Department.
350.21
FHawley:keb
RESTRICTED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
dated 0otober 4, 1949 1r0
the United States Political
RESTRICTED
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
on the subject "Foreign
Office Popular Lecture Pro-
gram".
(COPY)
LECTURE-MEETING FOR PUBLIC ENLIGHTENMENT
ON INTERNATIONAL SITUATION
In response to recuests from various local communities
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has sent out lecturers
from tine to time since August l946, in an effort contribute
to a more corred public understanding of the drift of the
world situation (See Annex A).. In view of the fact that
a group of extremists have been spreading, of late, false
and biased information on the international situation for
propaganda purposes (through "The Akahata" and similar
publications) with the intention of creating confusion in
the public mind and aggravating the social situation in
this country, the Ministry has made a plan, which it is
now carrying out, to send out lecturers to lecture-meet-
ings throughout the country to enlighten the public on
the international situation. with the aim of enabling the
general public more effectively to have a clearer objective
understanding of how the world is moving.
1。
The first lecture-meetings are to be held between
the end of July and October.
2。
As a rule, meetings will be held at 15 to 16 commu-
nities in each prefecture. In addition to meetings
in large cities, much stress will be laid on lec-
tures in smaller cities and towns as well as farm-
villages.
3。
Meetings will be held under the auspices of cities,
towns, or villages or cultural and other organi-
zations and to these meetings the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs will send speakers.
As regards the lectures given between 20 July amd the
end of August. 56 lecturers were sent out and 312 lectures
were given in all as will be seen from Annex B. The
schedule of lectures for September is shown in Annex C.
The lecture-meetings have been favourably received and the
local public have been deeply impressed with the lectures.
Accordingly. the Ministry is planning to hold meetings of
a more effective nature, in resnonse to local requests,
as many times as the budgetary condition permits in order
to keep the public informed of current international events
and trends.
In Annex D
RESTRICTED

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatoh No. 687
October 4, 1949.
-2-
In Annex D are listed some of the typical uestions
asked the speakers during the question-and-answer period.
Annex A.
Numbers of lectures given and lecturers ent between
August, 1946 and 31 July, 1949.
(Results of investigations conduoted by
the Press Section, the Public Inforeation
Division, as of 15 August, 1949)
Calendar
Tokyo-to
Local
Total number of lectures
year
district
(number of Licturers sent)
Aug.--Dec.,
4
122
126(56)
1946
Jan.--Dec.,
142
270
416(228)
1947
Jan.--Dec。,
160
353
513(258)
1948
Jan.--July.
104
340
444(170)
1949
Total
410
1,085
1,495(712)
Annex B.
Number, places, subjects, and dates of lectures given between 20
& 31 July
1. Local districts:
Date
Place
Number
Subject
17--20 July
Matsumoto
1
The latest interna-
Nagano Pref.
tional situation.
18--31
Nagasaki &
The Question of
6 other places
Soviet Russia.
(towns & villa-
ges) in Nagasaki
Pref. and Saga &
4 other plec:s
(towns & villages)
in Saga-Pref.
18-20
Amatsu--mechi,
1
The latest interna-
Chiba Pref.
tional situation.
23-25
Kofu, Yamanashi
2
do
Pref.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
October 4, 1949.
-3-
Annex B. (Con't)
Date
Place
Number
Subject
22-27
Akita & 2 other
3
do
places (1 town &
village) in Akita
Pref.
22--28
Kyoto-Osaka-Kobe 3
do
District & Shi-
koku
25--27
Mito, Ibaraki
1
The Question of
Pref.
Soviet Russia.
26
Atami, Shizuoka
do
Pref.
2。 Tokyo-to
Date
Place
Number
Subject
22 July
World Economy
1
The latest situa-
Research Assn.
tion concerning
repatriation of
Japanese nationals.
23
Maritime Safety
1
The situation in
Agency
Soviet Russia.
25
Sino-Japanese
1
The internal and
Economic Assn.
external situation
of Soviet Russia.
27
Japan Trans-
1
The internal and
portation Co.,
external situation
Ltd.
of Soviet Russia.
27
Kodaira-machi,
1
The question of
Kita Tama-gun,
Soviet Russia.
Tokyo-to
RESTRICTED

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
Oetober 4, 1949.
-4-
Number, places, subjects and dates of lecturea given in
August
1. Local districts:
Date
Place
Number
Subjeot
27 July.--
Kyoto, & 7 other
8
The latest interna-
5 Aug.
places (towns &
tional situatior
villages) in Kyoto
centering around
Pref., Osaka & Ma-
Soviet Russia
tsuye
1--12 Aug。
Bofu, & 5 other
10
The latest interna-
places (towns &
tional situation
villages) in
Yamegichi Pref., and
Saga & 3 other places
(towns & villages)
in Saga Pref.
27 July.-
Osaka & 3 other
4
do
3 Aug。
places (Towns &
villages) in Osaka
Pref. and Kyoto
Date
Place
Number
Subject
2 Aug。
Yokohama
1
The latest interna-
tional situation cen-
tering around Soviet
Russia
3--13 Aug。
Fukuoka & 8 other 12
do
places (towne & villa-
ges) in Fukuoka Pref.
and Bofu & 2 other places
(1 town & village) in
Yamaguchi Pref.
3--15 Aug。
Sapporo & 5 other 5
The latest political
places (towns &
& economic situation
villages) in Hokk
in America
aido
5--14 Aug。
Fukumitsu-cho &
7
The latest interna-
6 other places
tional situation
(towns & villages)
in Toyama Pref.
7--26 Aug.
Koch:. & 13 other
14
The latest interna-
placas (towns &
tional situation
villages) in Kochi
fref.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
 .
October 4, 1949.
-5-
1. Local districts: (Con't)
Date
Place
Number
Subject
8--14 Aug。
Yahatahama & Ozu, 4
do
Ehime Pref.
9--15 Aug。
Nagano & Niigata
7
On the UNESCO cultural
movement
9--24 Aug。
Sakada & 14 other 15
The question of Soviet
places (towns &
Russia
villages) in Yama-
gata Pref.
11--13 Aug。
Hamamatsu, Shi-
1
The latest interna-
zuoka Pref.
tional situation
11--16 Aug.
Fukushima-machi &
8
do
7 other places
(towns & villages)
in Miyagi Pref.
Date
Place
Number
Sub jeet
15--26 Aug。
Places in Ishi-
13
The question of Soviet
kawa Pref.
Russia
15--23 Aug。
Kanazawa & 11 other-12
The latest interna-
places (towns & vil-
tional situation
lages) in Ishikawa
Pref.
15 Aug。
Mito, Ibaragi Pref. 1
do
15--16 Aug。
Yokosuka, Kanagawa 1
do
Pref.
18--28 Aug.
Shiraishi-mura &
14
do
13 other places
(towns & villages)
in Miyagi Pref.
16--28 Aug。
Tsukinoki-machi & 11
do
10 other places
(towns & villages)
in Miyagi Pref.
19 Aug。
Urawa Saitama
1
do
Pref.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.98)
5en NO. 0O!
Öctober 4, 1949
-6-
1. Local Districts: (Con't)
Date
Place
Number
Subject
19--31 Aug.
Some 15 places
15
The question of China
(towns & villages)
in Hokkaido
20--31 Aug。
Akita & 13 other
14
The latest interna-
places (towns &
tional situation
villages) in Akita
Pref.
20-22 Aug。
Places in Hyogo
2
The latest interna-
Pref.
tional situation
22-31 Aug。
Taira & 5 other
7
The question of Soviet
places (towns &
villages) in Fuku-
shima Pref.
22-31 Aug。
Inawashiro-machi
7
The latest interna-
& 6 other places
tional situation
(towns & villages)
in Fukushima Pref.
22-31 Aug.
Fukushima & 6
7
The question of Soviet
other places (towns
Russia
& villages) in Fuku-
shima Pref.
23-31 Aug。
Kyoto & Maizuru
11
The latest interna-
and 5 other places
tional situation
(towns & villages)
in Kyoto Pref.
24 Aug。--8
Fukuoka, Saga &
17
The question of Soviet
Sept.
6 other places
Russia
(towns & villages)
in Fukuoka & Saga
Pref's, Nagasaki &
9 other places
(towns & villages)
in Nagasaki Pref.
& Kumamoto
24 Aug.-—2
Akita & 8 other
10
The latest interna-
Sept.
places (towns &
tional situation
villages) in Akita
Pref. & Sendai
25-31 Aug。
Morioka & 6 other 6
do
places (towns &
villages) in Iwate
Pref.
25 Aug.-7
Places in Kagawa
9
The latest situation
Sept.
Pref.
in China
29 Aug.
Mito, Ibaragi Pref. 1
Post-war situation in
Germany
RESTRICTED

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
7
Local Districts:
(Con't)
Number
Subjest
Date
Place
29--30 Aug.
Zushi, Kenagawa
1
The latest intorna-
Pref.
tional situation
28 Aug.--5
Places in Ehime
do
Sept.
Pref.
29. Aug。--14
Places in Kumamoto 14
The question of Soviet
Sept.
Pref.
Russia
2。Tokyo-to:
Date
Applicant for
Number of
lecture
lectures
Subject
3 Aug.
Finance Bureau,
1
The present politi-
cal situation of
Tokyo-to
the world
16
Yotsuya Fire-
1
The international
situation around
Brigade Station
Soviet Russia.
22
Mejiro Police
1
Communism and situ-
ation in Soviet
Station
Russia
22
Labor Cultural
1
Things in America
League
The latest inter-
23
South Sea Associ- 1
national situation
ation
and the question of
trade
The expounding of the
23
Ministry of Labor 1
international situ-
ation
31
Hitachi Dockyard
1
The international.
situation center-
ing around Soviet
Russia
9
Kodaira-machi,
1
The question of
Soviet Russia
Kita Tama-gun
RESTRICTED

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatch No..687,
Ootober 4, 1949.
-8-
Annex C.
I. The program of lectures in local distriots for September:
1-12 Sept.
Placos in Hiroshima Pref.
The latest inter-
national situatim
1-12
Pleses in Tokushima Pref.
do
1-12
do
do
30 Aug.-10 Sept.
Places in Toyama Pref.
do
1-14 Sept.
Places in Niigata Pref.
do
1-17 Sept.
Places in Oita Pref.
do
31 Aug.-9 Sept.
Places in Miye Pref.
do
6-15 Sept.
Places in Aichi Pref. and
Gifu & Ogaki, Gifu Pref.
do
5-12
Places in Aichi Pref.
do
15-29
Places in Okayama Pref.
do
14-22
Kegoshima
do
17-25
Nagasaki
do
15-24
Saga
do
20-30
Fukuoka
do
19-24
Tottori.
do
12-20
Hiroshima
do
15-30
Shimane & Tottori
do
13
Hokkaido
do
10-19
Miyazaki
do
20-30
Aomori
do
do
14-20
Kyoto
21-27
Yemaguchi
do
2。
Program of lectures in Tokyo-to for September:
5 Sept.
Folice College
The question of Soviet
Russia
12
do
Things in China
RESTRICTED

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatch No. 687,
0otober 4, 1949.
Annex D.
Important questions asked at lecture-meetings
---31 Aug., 1949, the Press Section, the Public Infor-
mation Division---
(Of the questions put to the lecturers sent by the
Ministry of Foreign Affairsto the lecture-meetings held
between 20 July and 31 August, those asked from a particular
thought point of view are shown hereunder.)
I. Political questions concerning Japan:
a。
Is the change of capitalistic countries to commu-
nistic countries not a natural consequence of
social evolution? (Nagasaki Prefecture)
b。
For what reasons has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
planned lectures like the present one? (Fukushima
Prefecture)
c.
The lecturer is siding with America, but is it not
possible for us to try to understand our neighbour-
ing country Soviet Russia with a good will?
(Fukushima Prefecture)
d. Is it possible for the Communist Party of Japan to
come into power if they can hold an overwhelming
ma jority as a result of a future election? (Kochi
Prefecture)
e。
The Communist Party says that they would absolutely
not use violence in carrying out a revolution, but
are they really thinking so? (Sapporo)
f。
How does the American a id to Japan bear comparison
with the occupation expenditure we are paying?
(Ishikawa Pref.)
Note: The same question was asked at three other
places.
g。
Will America and Soviet Russia fight with each other
eventually? (Kochi Pref., Hokkaido, and Fukushima
Pref.)
h。
Will the U.S. Army evacuate from Japan in case of war
between America and Soviet Russia? (Bibai-machi,
Hokkaido)
1。
Soviet Russie is on the defensive in respect to
America and it is America, I feel, who is a warlike
nation. but Soviet Russia appears to be pacific.
What is your view on that point? (Nagasaki)
2. Questions concerning Asia:
It is felt that the occupation of South Korea by
North Korea may have an important bearing upon Japan.
How do you think about it? (Ishikawa Pref.)--the
same question was asked at two other
places.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
Despaten No. 08?,
October 4, 1949.
-10-
b. Do cooperate with China immediately in defiance or
the question of political principles. (Kochi Prer)
c. Is the trade with China possible under the Yoshida
Cabinet? (Fukuoka & Saga Pref's)
3. Question of repatriation of Japanese nationals:
a。
Is it not an error on the part of Japan which is
responsible for the difference as to the number of
Japanese detainees in Soviet Russia? (Fukuoka Pref.)
b。
Repatriates from Soviet Russia say as follows, but
what is the actual state of affairs in that country?
(1)
Soviet Russia is united as one nation under
the Communist Party and people are working
cheerfully.
(2)
She is really abundant in foodstuffs.
(3)
In Soviet Russia the right to labor is guaran-
teed under the Constitution and there is no
such thing as unemployment. (Ishikawa Pref.)
4. Economic questions:
a.
Is not the present economic difficulty of Japan
attributable to the impasse in which capitalism now
finds itself all over the world &nd also to an
economic panic which is taking place in America?
(Ishikawa Pref. )
b。
Is there no fear of the introduction of foreign
capital reducing Japan to a colony of a foreign
country?
C。
Is it not necessary to mortgage something for the
introduction of foreign capital? (for instance
railways and tobacco monopoly enterprise)--
(IshikawaPref.)
Note:
The same question was asked at two
other places.
do
Is it for the sake of the introduction of foreign
capital that the Government intends to transfer
its monopoly enterprises to business firms for
operation? Is there no fear that all profitable
enterprises may be taken by America in consequence?
(Ishikawa Pref.)--the same question was asked.
at 3 other places.
e。
It is said that the prices of goods for export are
becoming too cheap. How things are actually stand-
ing? (Ishikawa Pref.)
f。
For what reasons the costly nitrate of ammonia is
imported to this country and cheap ammonium sulphate
is exported to America? (Ishikawe Pref.)--the same
question was asked at two other places.
go
Why the costly coal (T17,000--18.000 per ton) is
imported from America while cheap coal (7000-8,000
per ton) is piled in Japan?
RESTRICTED

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.97)
Despatch No. 687,
Ootober 4, 1949.
-11
h. Is such non-parity t:ade in practice anywhere el
(Ishikawa Pref. & two other pla
1.
It is said that some of goods for export are exported
at prices below cost and the deficit is made good
with the Government :ubsidy. Is it true? (Ishikawa
Pref.)
j。
It is thought that, if Government subsidies are
given to farmers, the increased production of rice
will become possible making it unnecessary to
buy high-priced flou: and others from America.
How do you think about it?
k.
For what reasons ca:not Japan build ships despite
the order placed by foreign countries? Ishikawa
Pref. and two other places)
1. Has the Government offered anything as a security
for the U.S. econonic aid? (Ishikawa Pref. and two
other places.)
5.. The question of America.
a. What are the political colours of AFL and CIC?
(Hokkaido)
b. How is the communist movement within American
labor unions? (F.ikodate)
C。
Why does not the labor-union movement in America
proceed to have political struggles?
d。
It is siad that the American labor-union movement
is conducted tlrrough election campaigns. Cannot
this be regard:d as & political struggle? (Sapporo
& Bibai-machi)
e。
A walk-cut is thought to be something like a sin
in Japan, but do they think in the same way in
America?(Bipai-machi)
f。
What sre the causes of strikes on a large scale
in America, and how is public opinion on the
matter? (Bibai-machi)
6. The question of Soviet Russia:
a。
It has been said that the date for investigations
concerning Soviet Russie are accurate, but what
kind of materials are used for that purpose?
(Fukuoka Pref.)
b。
It has been said that trials by the Soviet law-court
are made in a dictatorial way. but are they not much
more democratic in comparison with trials under the
system for capitalists control in capitalistic
countries, inasmuch as the policies in Soviet
Russia are based on the masses? (Nagasaki Pref.)
RESTRICTED

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.98)
Despatch No. 687
Ootober 4, 1949.
-12-
Supposing that the people in Soviet Russia are
dissatiafied with their Government, how could
they gain such a glorious viotory in the last
Russo-German war? (Fukuoka Pref.)
d. You have said that there are compulsory laborers
in Soviet Russia, but on what ground could you
say so? (Fukuoka Pref.)
e。
You have said that, in Soviet Russia the members of
the Communist Party draw high salaries and are
treated well, but do you not think it wrong in view
of the fact that there are non-members of the party
among the high class technical experts and members
of the Council of the Union? (Fukuoka Pref.)
f。
You have said that Soviet Russia is forcing a pri-
vation-endurance life to the people, but how can
you explain the fact that the repatriates from
that country are quite stout? (Fukuoka & Nagasaki
Pref's)
g。
As far as we, repatriates, witnessed, the life of the
masses there was happy and they were working cheerfully,
what will you say about it? (Fukushima Pref.)
h。
It is said that the prices in Soviet Russia have
fallen after the revision of the currency system,
but how is the actual state of affairs there?
(Fukuoka Pref.)
i. In what way commerce is conducted in Soviet Russia?
(Imari)
j. Are the profits of business recognized in that
country?(Imari)
k。
What is the proportion of food expenses to the aver-
age total amount of wages of a Soviet laborer
amounting to 500-600 roubles? (Fukuoka Pref.)
RESTRICTED

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.95)
OF THE
UNITED STATIS OF AMERICA
DIVISION OF
ORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Office of the United States
lit
1949 Political Adviser for Japan
EG D4
No. 703
Tokyo, October 8, 1949.
PETION
RESTRICTED
INFO
DCR
OLI
IC
Subject: Foreign Office Primacy over Missions Performed Abroad.
894.00/10-849
2XRs
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/ 2/
I have the honer to enclose a deision of the Japanese Cabinet
indicating that the Foreig: Offire, in its effort to unify the super
vision of Japanese participation in foreign relations (an effort in
which Mr. YOSHIDA, as both Prime Minister ond Foreign Minister, is
notably interested), has bm able is pbtain a determination which,
though brief and werled in general ras, does provide for agreement
with the Foreign Minister befcre cfficals of any ministries are sent
abroad to international conferences co for ther official duties.
The Foreign Office is favorably iapreused by the United States
practice of unified handling cf al fereign relations by and through
the Department of State The present Cahinet decision is a step
consciously taken in the same liretion.
794.021
Respeet fully yoursy
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures 
0CT281949
1. Copy of letter of
FILED
October 6, 1949, fxm
the Foreigu Cfficey
Mr. Ohno to ir. Coville.
2. Copy of Japenese Cebinet
decision of Octcber 4.
FAP
1949, regarling dg
of official perconne
abroad (in English rn
lation by the Fereign ?rice).
301
CCoville:hh
Parchment Mat to Departnert.
RESTRICTED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch
No. 703 dated October 8, 1949,
from Office of the United States
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subject: "Foreign Office
Primacy over Missions Performed
Abroad"
COPY
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
October 6, 1949.
Dear Mr. Coville,
I have the plea sure to inform you herewith that the
decision was reached at the Cabinet meeting held on
October 4, 1949 on the subject "Re Dispatch of Personnel
Abroad for Participation in International Conferences and
for Discharge of Other Official Duties." A copy of the
decision is enclosed herewith.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ Katsumi Ohno
/t/ Katsumi Ohno,
Chief,
Political Affairs Bureau.
Mr. Cabot Coville,
First Secretary,
Chief, Division of General Affairs,
Diplomatic Section, GHQ, SCAP.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure No. 2 to Des
703 dated Oatober 8,19
Office of the United Stal
Political Adviser for Jap
Tokyo, subject: "Forelgn Offine
Primacy.over Missions Perforaed
Abroadi
COPY
DECISION OF CABINET MEÉTING
October 4th, 1949.
Re Dispatch of Personnel Abroad for Participation in
International Conferences and for Discharge of Other
Official Duties.
In case Government officials or corresponding personnel thereof
are to be dispatched abroad for the purpose of participating in
international conferences and of discharging other official duties,
the Ministers concermed shall reach a mutual agreement prior to its
operation with the Minister for Foreign. Affairs.
(Reasons)
It is believed that the occasion will gradually increase in
the future to dispatch Government officials or corresponding per-
sonnel thereof to attend international conferences and to discharge
other official duties and, therefore, it is not only essential to
obtain a maximum efficiency and to avoid duplication in appropriating
the necessary funds, but it is also urgently needed, in view of the
delicate international situation, to carry out the handling of the
matter with utmost discretion and in complete unity of action among
Japanese Government Agencies concerned.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.93)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
4wm
DEPARTMÈNT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TEL
DIVISION OF
ORTHLASTISgar aFFaiho
2
0CT11949
BA
2713
ACTION: FE
INFO
CeFOL.O, Pok/o.
DCR
OLI
Dated:
cctoter 10,1949.
CIA
Action on Ama
Date of
AAN
meiling:
Unikohown
P
POS
UNCLASSIEIED
10/18
Received:
0ot. 17, 1949 12:06 p.m.
Dato c.!
NA
894.00/10-1049
secretarytof.State
A public opinion survey candueted on Cctober 1 a 2 y Asahi
Shimbun, one of Tokyo's two leading newspapers, indicates nut the
894.002
Yoshida Cabinet is supported by 43.l per cer: of the persas polled
and that 37.4 per cent of them would vote for the Demoeratsc hiteral
XR.
Party in case a general election were to be reid noi.  ceount of
the poll as published in the Irglish language ipo  s f Octo
ber 10, 1949, is juoted below:
"The Yoshida Cabinet is supported by a th
people, according to the rational publie pin.  con
ducted by the asahi Shimbun on October I ne
"The suxvey showed that 43.l per c   Yoshic
Cabinet, while 17.1 per cent do not. Thcse o   ccido
totaled 20.5 per cent, and others who did nct
aper
cent.
"If a general election is held now, 37.4 p et wouli
vote for the Democratic-Liberal Purty, 7.3 per pent for the
Democratic Party, 16.o per cent for the 3ocial 
Party, 1.7 per cent for the Comaunist Party, 1.?  t fo
the People's Cooperative Party. 2.2 per csat fo: c h : trti
and independents, 3.2 per ceni will not vote, 2,5 r nt de
not wish to answer, and 2?.9 per cent remain silen.
OCT 21 1949
"Eighty-six per cent of shose who vold vote c 
F
ocratic-liberal rarty, 45 per ccnt of t se for the
Party, and 15 per cent of those for the ci orr
Party are supporting the Yosrids Cabinei.
PERMANENT RECQRD COPY.—ThIs copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.79)
Tokyo 3 -203,
Setober 10, 1949.
"on the ouner hand, to por pont or s. vote
z0 per cent are now Cor the Yose 
17
voted ror Connnnist canaicates  he
cent rav sutfeet their suppor. o u
23
Chouston rd

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT D
DETACH
THIS FORM
894.00/10-2049
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
DEBP.
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH  TELEGRAM  AIRGRAM
731 FROM TOKYO
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
GOD
M-184

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
DC/R
CONTROL COPY
UNTED STATS OP AMN
NOV 7 1949
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
REC D
Tokyo, October 20, 1949.
NOV T
ACTION
No. 731
FE ENC
RESTRICTED (For Department use only)
INFO
DCR
OLI
Subject:
Transmitting Copy of "Brief Progress Report
on Political Reorientation of Japan", Pre-
scm
pared by Government Section- of General Head-
quarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to
transmit herewith a single copy of a document entitled
"Brief Progress Report on the Political Reorientetion
of Japan" prepared by the Government Section, General
Headquarters Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
and released October 12. 1949 It is understood that
additional copies will be made available to the Depart-
ment through the usual distribution channels of the
Department of the Army.
The first six chapters of the report, covering pages
1-3l contain considerable f ctual data on the pre-war
government of Japan and the major changes that have taken
place since the surrender in the direction of represen-
tative democracy. The last two chapters (pages 32-47)
describe and illustrate the underlying philosophy that
has guided General MacArthur as well as his modus oper-
andi under that philosophy. The report also reproduces
(pages 48 62) the Constitution of Japan.
Evaluations of the political reorientation of the
Japanese occur from time to time in the report, of which
the two most comprehensive are as follows:
".. the political reorientation of Japanhas
progressed far beyond the initial and necessary
stages of changes in leadership, revision of
governmental processes and institutions and has
2
now reached
RESTRICTED

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 731,
Octoher 20, 1949.
RESTRICTED
-2-
now reached the stage where stability derives from
an increasingly informed electorate conscious of its
political power and responsibility." (Page 31)
"Few of the measures taken in the reformation of
the Japanese governmental structure or body of
law. to conform to the requirements of a free
and democratic society, bear the stamp or 'stigma:
of Allied force. Those high concepts thus injected
into Japanese life institutiona and thought should
endure long after the occupation has been with-
drawn and MacArthur's philosophy, without prece-
dent in the annals of military occupations of the
past. will live as a standurd and a challenge to mili-
tary occupat ions of the future." (Page 36.)
Without disparaging in any way the achievements actu-
ally made in the politicel reorientation of Japan, it is
apparent thst the reforms outlined are as yet too new to
have proved their permanence. It also appears that the
Government Section has somewhat minimized its role in
the revision of governmental processes and institutions.
Moreover the great role played by General MacArthur's
personal leadership, as well as the inclination of the
Japanese to follow the lead of the Occupation while it
continues, must be regarded as contributing to the pre-
sent cooperativeness of the Japanese, but which will not
necessarily assure the permanence of the reforms now being
carried out under the Occupation.
Enclosure att
Copy of document entitled
Brief Progress Report on
the Political Reorienta-
tion of Japan, Government
Section. GHQ SCAP, 1949.
Farchment Mat to Department
350
BCooliuge: keb
RESTRIC PED
hog
17152

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.92)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DIVISION OF
AITHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
1949
From:
UOLAD, Tok
IMENT OF STATE
Date of
mailing: 0ctober 26, 1949
Action Taken Yw ast
. ID.TLL
Rcc'd: Nov. 3, 1949 3:53 pm
1
nord 4, 1949
M
ACTION
Secretafy of State,
NA
FE
INFO
ashinton.
lile
DCR
OLI
-277, 0ctober 22,-949.
CIA
894.00/10-2249
AAN
ith reference to this ission's uir re. lie o
2
June 4, 1949 conceruins disorders vhich took place at
POS
the Tokyo .etropolita:. .ssenbly on  ay 30, 1949 in
connectlon vith delibcrations on tic vublic security
.ordinence, tie Tokyo . etropolitan ssebly ap roved the
long debuted ordincace on Cctober 19 by & vote of sixty-
six to one, wlth all socialist asse..bly en atsenbing
themselves.
The new ordinance .rovides that t e a ro.ri ve
authoritics  ust rcc ive notirication Torty-cl s hours
in advenee for ass deronstrations d purades. Phe
Socialist ussemblymen vi orously opposad tue ordi pance
as "supressin the political sctivities or ths orking
reople", while Des.oeratic Liberal and De oers tie purty
assembly..en strongly favored the easure. Tee ciinance
was promulgated on October 20 and beca.e exfcot
i ..ediately.
In view of thc tension whioh initially olermsterize
the Tokyo .etropoliten asse..bly's first consileation of
the public securit rdinanee, which rosultu  ths
death of a de lonstrator durin isor ere sutni  e tre
Letropolitan ssebly on ay o, tse last tvo  of
publio euriy.s on the ordinance wure the oece slo.
for further delonstretions in the cowntown texyo aree.
Several claches ocvulred between cmonstratore a the
Japanese police put ro serious inuidente res lsss.
H
NOV 9
S
FILED
365.5
JNSpinks:.hp
169
PERMANENT RECORD COP:Y—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
69

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT D
H THIS FORM
DETACH
894.00/10-2249
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
DESP.
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A 
DESPATCH TELEGRAM
AIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
738 FROM TOKYO
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
G
FTD

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
NOV 3 0 1949
DC/R
CONTROL COPY
OCR
No. 738
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
CONFIDENTIAL
Tokyo, October 22, 1949
(For Department Use Only)
REC 0D
NOV 3
ACTION
Subject:
Transmitting Memorandum on "Local Autonomy
FE ENC
Progran for the Cities of Japan".
INFO
DCR
OLI
894.101
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State
Washington.
Sir
I have the honer to transmit to the Department
two copies cf a memorandum. together with its enclosures,
prepared by Foreign Serviee Officer William L. MAGISTRETTI
of the Yokohama Braneh of this Mission concerning the
local autoncry rrogram for the cities of Japan as conducted
by the Legal and Govern ent Division of the Civil Affairs
Section. Headquarters Sighth Army.
The part of the program deseribed in detail in
the enclosed memorandun relates to a conference held
at Uji-Yasada under the auspices of the Mie Prefectural
Civil ffairs Tean vhieh Mr Magistretti atterded The
conference is typical of the series now being conducted
through ut the country by the Legal and Govern ent
Division.
In addition to attending the Civil Affairs Team
conference Mr Magistretti also had the opportunity
to talk directly with Japanese of various classes and
894.00
was able to ascertain some reactions to certain aspects
of the Occupation In these discussions the Japanese
HS
manifested a definite decire to learn about democratic
practices and principles
y phases however
this desire is impeded by traditional political and
sociological patterns The ultinate success of democracy
in Japan appears in Magistretti's opinion, to be con-
tingent on three factors: (1) the present-day ground-
work now being laid, (2) the education of school children
in democracy and (3! the solution of Japan's basic
economic problems
Additionally of course, the success
of democracy in Japan will depend to a considerable
extent
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.96)
738Octobe22,1949
CONFIDENTIAI
-2-
extent upon how ell the Japanese themselves come to
realize its benefits and actually endeavor to put it
into practice. At present there is a somewhat non-
critical acceptance of democratic.teachings, although
some disagreement has been apparent as to whether gertain
aspects of democracy are applicable to Japan. While the
test will unquestionably come with the termination of
 Occupation, on the basis of what he was able to observe
in Mie Prefecture Mr. Magistretti feels that there will
ultimately emerge in Japan a Japanese type ofdamocracy
suited to Japanese needs.
While most of the conclusions concerning democratic
prospects in Japan as presented in this memorandum must
of necessity be speculative, Mr Magistretti is to be
commended for his careful and penetrating investigation.
Respectfully yours,
in Selaed
W J Sebald
Memorandum on Local Autonomy
Propram Tor the Civies of Japan
Cetober 10 1949
prepured by
FSo kagistretti. together with
its enelosures
Copy to:
Diplometie See
Yekehama Branch
Parehment Mat te Depurt ent
350
CNSpinks:mhp
CO
ENTIAL

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
le
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
NOV-81949
No。 738
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, October 22, 1949
894.00/16.2249 CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
REC. 0D
NOV 3
ACTION
Transitting Memorandum on "Local Autonomy
FE ENC
Program for the Cities of Japan".
INFO
DCR
OLI
WSTRUE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington..
Filea
Central
DC/R
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit to the Department
894.00/10-2249
two ccpies of a memorandum. together with its enclosures
prepared by Foreign Service Officer William L. MAGISTRETTI
of the Yokohama Branch of this Mission concerning the
local autonemy progran for the cities of Japan as conducted
by the Legal and Government Division of the Civil Affairs
Section, Headauarters Eighth Army
The part of the program deseribed in detail in
the enelosed memorandun relates to a conference held
at Uji-Yamada under the auspices of the Mie Prefectural
Civil ffairs Teaa vhich Mr Magistretti atterded The
conference is typicul of the series now being conducted
throughout the country by the Legal and Govern ent
Division
In addition to attending the Civil Affairs Team
conference Ir. Magistretti also had the opportunity
to talk directly with Japanese of various classes and
was able to ascertain some reactions to certain aspects
of the Occupation In these discussions the Japanese
manifested a definite desire to learn about democratic
practices and principles
my phases, however
this desire is impeded by traditional political and
sociological patterns The ultimate success of democracy
in Japan appears. in Magistretti's opinion, to be con-
tingent on three factors: (1) the present-day ground-
work now being laid, (2) the education of school children
a
in denocracy and (3) the solution of Japan's basic
economic problems
Additionally of course, the success
of democracy in Japan will depend to a considerable
CS
extent
工
FILED
CONFIDENTIAL
19
52
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN,

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.96)
750, Oetobal
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
extent upon how well the Japanese themselves come to
realize its benefits and actually endeavor to put it
into practice. At present, there is a somewhat nom-
critical acceptance of democratic.teachings, although
some disagreement has been apparent as to whether certain
aspects of democracy are applicable to Japan. While the
test will unquestionably come with the termination of
t Occupation, on the basis of what he was able to observe
in Mie Prefecture Mr. Magistretti feels that thero will
ultimately emerge in Japan a Japanese type or damberacy
suited to Japanese needs..
While most of the conclusions concerning democratic
prospects in Japan as presented in this memorandum must
of necessity be speculative, Mr. Magistretti is to be
commended for his careful and penetrating investigation.
Respectfully yours,
ir.Bebred
W. J. Sebald
Memorandum on Local Autonomy
Program for the Cities of Japan
Cctober 10. 1949 prepared by
FSo Magistretti, together with
its enclosures
awm
Copy to: Diplometic Section Yokohama Branch.
Parchment Mat to Department.
350
CNSpinks:mhp

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch no. 738
dated October 22, 1949 from
the United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Transmitting Memorandum on "Local
Autonomy Program for the cities of
Ja an".
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department's use only)
MEMORANDUM REPORT
October 10, 1949
SUBJECT:
Local Autonomy Program for the Cities of Japan
as Conducted by Legal and Government Division,
Civil Affairs Section, Headquarters Eighth Army
-- Conference at City of Uji-Yamada
The Legal and Government Division of the Civil Affairs
Section, Headquarters Eighth Army, has been engaged in
presenting a series of conferences to educate Japanese
officials and the general public in their rights and duties
under democracy. These conferences were first held on the
Prefectural level in the early part of this year. The pre-
sent series, devoted to the local autonomy program for the
cities of Japan, began in mid-September and will continue
until the end of December. They are being held at princi-
pal cities not covered previously on the Prefectural level.
The program is implemented by two teams whose leaders
are high-ranking officials in the Legal and Government
Division. In some cases the Chief of the Division, Mr.
Cecil B. Tilton, has been in charge. Additional persons
are drawn either from the Division or from personnel of the
local Military Government Tean. In order to insure the
proper presentation of certain basic principles of local
autonomous government, the Legal and Government Division
has prepared five speeches which are delivered on the first
day of the conference.
The first speech (Enclosure 1), entitled "The Citizen
in Japan", is devoted to a discussion of the rights and
duties of the citizen toward his city as a voter and as a
tax payer. The subject is developed in light of the Anglo-
American tradition, the new Japanese constitution and the
new local autonomy law (Chiho Jichi Ho). The second speech
(Enclosure 2) is devoted to the office of mayor with parti-
cular reference to the historical background and to the
various powers and functions of the mayor in Japan under
the local autonomy law. Particular emphasis is laid on
the relationship between the mayor and the city assembly,
and the mayor and the governor, both of which have been a
major source of trouble in the new Japan. The third speech
(Enclosure 3) treats of the City Assembly in Japan under
the new local autonomy law, with emphasis on the powers of
the Assembly, the people's duty toward the Assembly and
the Assembly's relation with the mayor, city committees
boards and commissions. The fourth speech (Enclosure 4)
is a discussion of municipal administration in terms of
policy, relationship with the people, specific services,
general
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
general principles of organization and specific instances
of city practices in Japan. The final speech (Enclosure
5) is devoted to committees, commissions, boards as inde-
pendent agencies in local government. Because these
organizations are new to Japan, considerable space is
given to their definition, their character, their legal
functions, their place in local government, and their
relationship with the courts in terms of specific boards
and commissions.
Subsequent to the preparation of these speeches in
the Division, they were translated into Japanese by a
Japanese judge and reviewed by a former Japanese diplo-
mat. It is the policy of the Division that these speeches
shall be presented as nearly verbatim as possible with
interpreters reading only the approved translations.
Conference at Uji-Yamada
The conference at Uji-Yamada which I attended is
typical of the series now being conducted by the Division.
It will be of interest to note the methods used, the prob-
lems broached in discus sion and audience reaction. By
this means some judgement can be made regarding the effect-
iveness of the conferences and the .progress of democratiza-
tion in Japan.
The Team at the present conference was headed by Mr.
Howard D, Porter, a Cincinnati lawyer in private life and
now one of the high-ranking Department of the Army civil-
ian employees in the Legal and Government Division. His
second in command was Major Charles R. Thomas, Jr., a
younger, regular Army officer whom I found to be both com-
petent and very sympathetically int erested in the work.
Sergeant First Class William E. Hurtig, who has spent
approximately three years with the Miye Prefecture Mili-
tary Government Team, also took part in the conference.
Because of an unforeseen shorta e in team personnel, the
writer, originally an observer, was asked to participate
in the work and was asked to read the first speech in
Japanese and to lead the discussion roups relative to
Speech No. 1.
The quality of inter retin was in general very good.
An accomplished interpreter, educated at the University of
Southern California and Keio University, Tokyo, was pro-
vided for Major Thomas. The Miye Military Government Team
supplied two additional interpreters, one a Japanese
graduate of Harvard, the other a former banker.
Initial preparations had been made by letter inform-
ing the mayor of Uji-Yamada of the Conference, its contents
and necessary groundwork. The group arrived at Uji-Yamada
on Saturday, October 1, and was met at the train by the
mayor, assistant mayor and police chief. After exchange of
greetings we proceeded to the City Hall. We then spent
about an hour and a half coing over the preparations the
city officials had made. One of the problems, Mr. Porter
informed me, is the tendency of city officials to adhere
to the old
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 3 -
to the old practice of featuring short speeches from
Prefectural officials at these meetings. Porter attempted
to dissuade the mayor from having too many of these
speeches but in the end the governor and the head of the
Prefectural Assembly did make speeches at the opening
ceremony on Monday morning. The mayor explained that
he had already sent out invitations for a short speech
from them and could not withdraw these invitations.
During the course of the day the writer had an opport-
unity to discuss the city and its affairs with the mayor
and vice-mayor. The Mayor, Mr. Takao Keiya, was elected
less than one month ago. Although born in Uji-Yamada, he
has spent about twenty years as a Japanese government offic-
ial in Formosa, and served in all parts of the Island. Prior
to becoming mayor he was a member of the City Works Com-
mittee. Judging fron the way they handled the conference,
both the mayor and his assistant seemed to be fairly com-
petent city officials. The Vice-Mayor, Mr. Misao Nagasumi,
first lived in Kyoto and moved to Uji-Yamada more than
thirty years ago. He has spent approximately thirty years
in various positions at the City Office. According to
these gentlemen, Uji-Yamada's principal business has con-
sisted in catering to visitors to the Grand Shrine of Ise
(first shrine of Japan) which adjoins the city. There is
no industry to speak of; most of the limited land is de-
voted to hotels and smail shops. During the latter part
of the war the city was bombed and although by area only
forty-seven percent was demolished, the city officials
claim that this area accounted for about eighty percent of
the town's income. At the present time they said they
have only forty percent of their pre-war tourist trade.
This is causing a very acute eccnomic problem among the
city inhabitants.
The city officials also told me the Grand Shrine of
Ise is suffering financial difficulties. In normal times
the shrine is rebuilt every twenty years. This year, be-
cause of lack of funds, the new shrine is not being con-
structed. Only the bridge crossing the river to the shrine
is being rebuilt. It might be noted parenthetically that
as an aftermath of the war and laws separating church and.
state, Ise, along with other Shinto shrines, has experienced
a severe drop in the number of visitors.
Turning to politics the city officials stated that
there were only two thousand Communist votes at the last
election and tihat the party is on the decrease. This was
particularly noticable after the Communists refused to allow
one repatriot from Siberia to see his family prior to going
to Communist Farty headquarters. The strongest party is
the Conservative Democratic Liberal Party.
During the weekend I had the opportunity to talk in-
formally with n. Forter and Major Thomas about the evalua-
tion of the speeches and their effectiveness. Both took me
completely
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 4 -
completely into their confidence and gave me all possible
assistance during this trip. Porter and Thomas felt some
of the speeches were over the heads of the people. They
believed that material of about the standard of sth grade
civics lessions was needed; that the papers tended to give
too much historical background. They also said utilisa-
tion of the prepared speeches tended to put people to sleep
while the use of a living speech more directly related to
the daily problems of the people kept them interested.
They cautioned against being drawn into rendering an opin-
ion on some phase of local political contention in the
discussion groups.
The Conference: First Day
The conference convened on Monday, October 3, at
10:30 in the morning. Approximately 1,300 people assembled
in the Girls' High School auditorium for the opening cere-
monies and first day speeches. The audience included mayors
of the principal cities in Miye Prefecture, city assembly-
men, civic leaders and the interested general public. Many
were present by invitation of the mayor of Uji-Yamada. To
the left of the speakers' rostrum and facing the audience
were gathered city and prefectural officials. To the right
were seated members of the Team, the commanding officer of
Miye Military Government Team, Lt. Colonel Meek, and the
interpreters. Behind the speakers' rostrum were prominent-
ly posted two large charts with captions in both Japanese
and English, one entitled "Outline of City Government" and
the other, "The Arch of Good City Government." To the left
and right, attached to the top of the proscenium, was the
progran for the day. The Mayor of Uji-Yamada opened the
meeting with a short speech about the necessity for know-
ledge of regional autonomy under the new law. This was
followed by short speeches from Governor Osamu Aoki, Kyukichi
Kokubo, Chief of the City Assembly, the Chief of the Pre-
fectural Assembly, and a representative of the other Miye
Prefecture city mayors and assembly heads who were merely
introduced. Next, Lt. Colonel Meek was introduced and made
a brief speech about his confidence in Miye Prefecture and
in the progress which it has made under his predecessor and
himself. He then briefly introduced the members of the Team.
Mr. Porter followed with a speech in which he told of
General MacArthur's reat interest in this type of confer-
ence. He stressed the fact that it was only two years since
local autonomy, that good progress had been made and that
the people should not be discouraged at any difficulties or
errors which night have been encountered, but rather should
keep striving to correct them and strugle to achieve true
local autonomy. He pointed out that the first day would be
devoted to speeches, but the most inportant part was the
second day during which the people could and should ask all
possible questions. Upon conclusion of Mr. Porter's re-
marks, the writer was introduced and read Speech No. 1 in
Japanese. This consists of twenty-one pages and the read-
ing time was approximately one hour and ten minutes. With
the conclusion
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 5 -
the conclusion of this speech, at about 12:40, the meet-
ing adjourned for luncheon.
The afternoon was devoted to a speech by Major Thomas
which, because of shortage of personnel and time, combined.
Speeches Nos. 2 and 4. He was followed by Sergeant Hurtig
who gave Speech No. 3 on the Assembly in Japan, omitting
a good part of the history and interposing two points of
particular local relevance. Considerable trouble has been
encountered through criticism by the public of assemblymen
in Miye Prefecture and attempts to oust them summarily from
office. Sergeant Hurtig pointed out that assemblymen were
not to be relieved from office until a trial by court had
been held. He also indicated that too many assemblymen
were resigning their positions for trivial or meaningless
reasons. He maue an addit ional point of the duties of city
officials in government assemblies with reference to dis-
orderly demonstrations. This portion of the speech was
primarily directed at the anti-tax demonstrations which
were frequent occurences in Japan last year.
The final speech of the day was made by Mr. Porter on
committees, commissions and boards. Porter followed the
content of Speech No. 5 but revised it considerably and
spoke as if extemporaneously without reference to the pre-
pared speech. He analyzed the various types of committees
and independent agencies (boards of education, public safe-
ty committee, etc.) found in the United States and indi-
cated whether or not they might better the local government
situation in Japan. He concluded his speech with a brief
reference to the Shoup report (proposing a new taxation
system for Japan) and point ed out the report sought to de-
vote a much larger percenta e of the tax income to local
government than to the prefectural covernments. Mr. Porter
privately explained to me that one of the most acute prob-
lems faced by local government has been the lack of income.
The local autonomy law has imposed new and heavier burdens
upon local goverament but the tax structure has not been
revised to provide the necessary funds. The police and
fire departments in particular have been having a very
difficult time for the past two years. In some instances
gasoline for fire trucks was lacking and there have been
other equally disturbin circumstances. Porter told me
that wherever possible he tried to commend these struggl-
ing agencies and point out to the public the difficult
problems they were facing, and thereby alleviate the tend-
ency of the people to be unduly critical of their officials.
Conference: Second Day
On the second day of the conference the audience, well
over 1,300 persons, was divided into four separate roups.
The four speakers moved from room to room and met with each
group for one hour and twenty minutes. The discussions
began at 9:20 in the morning and were oncluded at 3:50 in
the afternoon
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 6 -
the afternoon. One of the most interesting facts to
come out of the four discussion groups was the evident
tendency, particularly in the rural areas, to label as
"red" those who opposed the majority view in a free and
lawful discussion group. This would seem to be fairly
deep-rooted even at the present time. In order to coun-
ter this trend it was emphasized that all progressive
steps in democracy were based on free and lawful inter-
change of opinions and ultimately resulted in the bost
possible view bein. utilized for the good of the city.
Despite the fact that this area had considerable
indoctrination in democratic politics because one of the
grand old men of Japanese politics, Osaki, lived there,
it was still apparent a sense of civic duty and responsi-
bility was not well developed. The questions disclosed a
marked propensity on the part of the voters to lay civic
difficulties completely at the door of the officials and
a tendency to overlook the fact that they, themselves, were
responsible for electing such officials. It was also appar-
ent that there was a definite inclination on the part of
the people to be unduly critical of the city officials,
and a lack of appreciation that, regardless of the men in
office, a large number of their present-day problems, such
as taxation, are due to acute economic dislocations result-
ing from the war and, at the present time, that it is
impossible for anyone to offer a complete solution.
In connection with city administration, the most
poignant question pertained to taxation. To say the least,
the tax system in the city areas is extremely haphazard.
In every discussion roup one or nore persons revealed
that assessments varied extremely between individuals liv-
ing in the same area and enjoyin the same status. Appeals
to tax officials brought not even the courtesy of a hear-
ing. The problem is particularly ucute because, in many
instances, the people literally do not have funds avail-
able with which to pay the taxes.
Another problem of city dainistration is the lack
of funds. Under the present tax system relatively little
money is channeled to the city, the majority going to the
prefecture and the central overnment. The local autonomy
law imposes great net ourdens and responsibilities on the
city administration ith the result that many of the new
responsibilities go berins for the financial means to
carry them out. At least one question was directed to me
on this subject by a member of a fire department. Members
of the Team answered questions relative to tax problems by
citing the Shoup report and explained the new tax system
for Japan would allocate a much more substantial portion
of the tax income to the city anu, thereby, considerably
alleviate these difficulties.
Ot .er que tions showed the people had an incomplete
realization of the functions and duties of the mayor as
opposed to the city council. In some instances the mayor
and city
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 7 -
and city council are at complete loggerheads and the
mayor has been placed in an almost impossible position
through inability to claim the right to be present at
city meetings and to explain the course of action he
desires put into effect. The Mayor of Uji-Yamada said
he had difficulty with his Assembly and it refused to
authorize an official car, forcing him to ride a bicycle.
One problem of considerable interest reflecting the
separation of church and state concerned the right of
the city to preempt land belonging to the Ise Shrine for
a children's playground. The questioners claimed that
no other suitable land was available and the shrine
authorities had been approached but were unwilling to de-
vote any portion of their extensive land for this purpose.
A suggested solution was a compromise with the shrine
officials.
About eight percent of the audience consisted of
women. Not many asked questions. However, several asked
about the new position of women in Japan and the problems
they are encountering. The women seemed to feel the major
portion of their problem was sociological. Since the
social or family pattern in Japan has, up to very recently,
given the woman a very subordinate position in the home
and in society, the men do not recognize the woman's new
freedom under the law. The women feel it is most essential
for the men to change their way of thinking. They were
particularly interested in omen's political organizations
in the United States, the type of organization and scope of
activities. At the request of the local women's club, the
writer held a special meeting after the Conference ad-
journed for the purpose of a fuller expression and dis-
cussion of the se topics. The women apparently welcomed
one who could speak directly to them in Japanese. In brief,
the iapression is that women' organizations in Japan are
taking their first faltering step and will need some very
active pushing from ardent Japanese feminists if they are to
achieve for Japanese women what American women's civic
organizations have accouplished.
Ir. Porter reported he founa the people rather unre-
sponsive with questions. However, major Thomas encountered
a large number of stimulatin questions as did Sergeant
Hurtig and the riter. It is not surprisin that Porter
found this conditio. because committees and commissions
are not widely used at tne present time.
One of the particular problems the Team wi shed to
support was a ainst recall of city officials. Major
Thomas told me in private that last year r. Cecil Tilton,
Chief of the Legal and Government Division, had spoken
widely urgin utilization of the recall where the people
encountered
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 8 -
encountered bad officials. As a result of this campaign
some two hundred mayors were recalled before it was
realized the people were misusing this political device.
Now the emphasis is on moderation with the recall as a
last resort as in the United States. This is, in part,
a commentary on the still present responsiveness of the
people to direction.
The Conference closed with greetings from the Mayor,
from Lt. Colonel Meek and from Major Thomas of the Team
who read a letter indicating interest and support of the
problem from Major General Walton H. Walker, Commanding
General of the ighth Army.
Conclusions
From the above it may readily be seen that there is
an interest and desire among the people to learn about
and institute democratic practices and principles. How-
ever, in many phases this desire is impeded by old poli-
tical and sociological patterns. Thus, it may be anti-
cipated that the ultimate success of democracy in Japan
will be contingent on three factors (1) the present day
groundwork being laid, (2) education of school children
in democracy, and (3) solution of basic economic problems.
For the present it may be said that democracy is growing
but will require careful nurturing for a considerable
period. Its success will depend on the extent to which
the Japanese, themselves, have realized its benefits and
endeavor to put it into practice. At present there is a
somewhat noncritical acceptance of democratic teachings
but some segments seem critical about whether certain
aspects are applicaule to Japan. The crucial point will
come when the occupation leaves and reaction against the
period of military rule may ve anticipated. As far as
Miye Prefecture is concerned, I feel it will ultimately
emerge with a Japanese brand of democracy suited to
Japanese needs. In this context I feel the Occupation
will be successful in its democratization activities.
w0213
William L. Ma istretti
American Vice Consul
WLf: fa
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure#1
BEADQU/RTERS EIGHTI UITED SOATES RY
MCiVidry Affairert Section
Legei Ena Goreriment Division
THE LOCA AUTOUOMY PROGRAM FOR THE CITIES OF JAPAN
Paper No. 1.
The Citizen in Japan
Todry the men end women of this countiy are making the foundetions
of a new government, a new Janea. Dry by dey they ere creating a heri-
tage for which their grandcrildron wiii sive them their great thanks.
There is in Jepan o new life opening for all today; there can be a
greater and better life in Janen in the future. And this will be pre-
cisely as it should be. Ten s vusha o tasuku. Fortune fevors the brave.
Hard and steady work, to ether with fear less honesty and strong leader-
ship will essure good government. This good government in turn will en-
rich the lives of its makers ard ell others as well.
Some Famous Cities
FW 894
In world history the government of cities is old; it is very old.
The national government of various grent states hes risen end fallen
many times while the city governnents within those very national bounde-
ries heve remained, heving but slight interruntions to their cherecter
end affairs.
In the western world the very early cities with great governments
were not lile the later ones which heve existed es we Inow them in the
past 400 years, in particuler, the pest century. Only a few eerly cities
which developed gre t goverrments need be mentioned. Some centuries be-
fore the Christian Er , Pabylon erd lineveh singled themselves out because
0
of their religious a: " noliticsl Came. Leter, Sperta, Athens, Rome,
Genoa and Venice ceveloped groet governments. Still later, Paris,
Amsterdam end London beceme powerful; they re cities vith relatively
late histories in both government and usiress. Lexico City, in Mexico;
Lime, in Peru; Puenos Aires, in rgontina; nd Rio de Janiero, in Brezil
ere cities estatlished much later. They reprosent cntities in which the
Roman or civil law strictly prc vailed; yet the peonle within them made
sufficient chenges graduelly to :ren t'ierselves trom tne legal vice of
the old world's idens. horeover. these particuler cities vere flourishing
loenlities before Quebec and Fontreal in Can de, or Foston, Philadelphia,
New York, New Orlerns end Son Frarcisco in tne colonies in America were
founded. Great cities such es :elbournc end Sydney have gro m in
Iastralia, end Wellington nd Christchurch in New Zorlund. Of course,
while all these ronoumed cities vere ecquiring their great fume, thou-
sands of others developod nd grew to neet the deily needs of humenity.
Two Principles Produced
"hut c n be learned from the cevelonment end erperiences of all
these city-states, cities ond what ve 1 tely ave celled municipelities?
At once e most imrortent f: et is th t the old prinsiple ant belief of
government which stated: , lord or group of lords as he or they pleased
rule the reople as serfs ant vese 1s within the city or orovince bounde-
ries nroved to most of those very reonle who vere forced to live under
such tyreny to be not only wron tut vlso harmful. The lords or kings
had ordered their neople et will: To this! Go there! Pey now! Give
this! Pay sgein! Fight now! Forsake this nd stop thet! Through
great efforts and stru les o" getuelly millions of reorle, the princi-
ple rnd lelief of Ki: end Sut jeet or the Lord and Serf were thrown off
and phendoned. Thy? rcnuse thece reople cherishing real frecdom and
cctual liberty foundod new und better princinles of government ond ed-
ministration. These millions of reoplo lifted themselves out of con-
ditions of opprescion. In doin so they made progress in government for
the world.
That did these people in their search to be free produce at the same
time? The first fact which can be lenrned is that the reople produced a
superior princirle of government which states: ith the exception of 

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.96)
minor peroentage of the nopulution for ressons to be made wfa
all the people within the boundaries of tho established area emmpos
that area's governing authority. Tho sovereignty of government, ther
fore, is placed in the people. No longer was the old evil relationship
of the governors an the governed to be either King and Subjeot or Lord
and Sorf. Hence, it was a straight matter of the people being citizens
and quelified voters and in so being of sctually governing themselves.
In this position they could and would nll covern themselves. Because
of the very large numl ers of people ru ing this diroct participation in
government impracticnl, they then decided themselyes that representatives
from among themselves freely c' oson end frecly elected, would compose the
government for thomselves.
Thus, in the western world living through the progress and develop-
ment of their citics, tho millions of people took the best of their work-
able results to build grcat principlus of government. The people did
not stop with this splendid chiovoment. Heving made this great pro-
gress they could not stop! They wcnt forcefully and courageously to
the rightful end. They built great states in tho world to function on
those democretic principles. The United States of America was so built
and today the government so funetions. England had evolved the same
result before and has continued w:th it. Australin, Canada ond New
Zenland breathe in thut same life, too,
A socond fnct which con be learned from the history and experience
of these cities. grent nd small, of tho wostern world, is that these
prople produced another princirle of government which states: Public
Lodies develop perticular cuthority and machinery to deal with the
particulur problcms within their jurisdictions. There were local pro-
blems within the cities in which most cll people of the cities were
interested. Indeed, the issues nd problems were confined within the
cities' voundaries. Th. citius d velepcd perticular powers and estub-
lished spcciel suthor'ty to adninist r their affairs and solve their
protlems. Naturally, the specicl adinistrative machinery produced
workable and proper solutions. Not .lways wns this truc, but most of
the time! These particular povers wer nooded; they wore indispensablo.
So, too, are they neoded and are indiepenselle todey. When the people
combined tho citios and surrounding re ns nd many hamlets to form a
now gov rnment or the grcat st te itself, they plec d such powers of
government logicslly in the natiornl body as vould control and regulate
in the lend all the affairs of conmon interest. They did'rot place
such powers es would control locolized afftirs of particuler locelities
in the national body; they left trose powers logicolly with the locel
governrents for the local nuthoritis. Th's, the state secured its
proper found: tion rnd grcat stren th. Powers for common interests,
to solve nationally, lound the peorle nationally. Powers for locel
interests, to solve locnlly, bound the people locrlly. In their loce-
lity the people vitalized the state ns n whole.
Penefits in Jepen
In the cities of J: pan todey the rich fruits of all these experie-
rees cen le utilized. Accomplisirent is bogun py charting the clear
course for the future.
The Constitution of Jepon estnelishes for all Japinese the fulfil-
Iment of tne Pirst greet prine ple which it took the puople in the
western world so lon to achieve. The Jonstitution gives end insures
to tho peonle of Japun the sovereignty of Japen. The old concept of
King und Sunjoct or Lord and serf no a nrineinle with which to ponduct
government in Jrpir, not only hns be n denied but also atendoned.
The thirty one ticles conorising Chepter TII of the Constitution
set forward the righ. und duties of the people. ll Japanese should
know what these richos and duties are, whet they mean end above all else,
how procious they ure. Colemn perform mce of them will domonstrete
their velue to ll.
The Chihojichiho is the imnl monting ct of Chontor VIII of the
Constitution. As is inown to Il tod y, it is the org nic law which
creetos : nd cstoblishes tho g ner: l outhority tnd structure of ell the
local public bodius. In its vorious rticlcs denling with ruthority
to handle local problems locn lly. th: L'w giv s fulfillment to the

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.96)
minor percentage ofr the noBallaten for
all the people within the boundaries or the eetablikmed
that area's governing authority. Tho soverefgnty of god
fore, is placed in the people. No longer was the old wi
end Sorf. Hence, it wes a straight mat, of the peopao po
and quelified voters and in r. being of sctually governing themeeives
In this position they could and would all covorn themselves. Bocruo
of the very large numl ers of pcople u ing this direct participation in
government impractical, they then decided themselves that representabives
from among themselves freely closon end freely elected, would compome the
government for thomselves.
Thus, in the western world living through the progress and develop-
ment of their citics, the millions of people took the best of their work-
able results to build grcat principles of government. The people did
not stop with this splendid chievement. Heving made this great pro-
gress they could not stop! They wcnt forcefully and courageously to
the rightful end. They built great states in the world to function on
those democretic principles. The United States of America was so built
and today the government so functions. England had evolved the same
result before and has continued with it. Australin, Canada and New
Zenland breathe in thet same life, too,
A second fact which con be learned from the history and experience
of these cities. grent and small, of the wostorn world, is that these
poople produced another princinle of government which states: Public
todios develop perticul uthority and machinery to deal with the
particular problems wic. n their jurisdictions. There were local pro-
bloms within the cities in which most cll pcople of the cities wore
interested. Indeed, the issues nd problems were confined within the
cities' voundaries. Th. citios d veloped perticuler powers and estab-
lished special author'ty to adninist r their aff irs and solve their
problems. Naturelly, the specicl adninistrative machinery produced
workable and proper solutions. Not ulways wns this truc, but most of
the time! These particular powers wer nooded; they were indispensablo.
So, too, are they ne ded and are indispenselle todey. When the people
combined the cities and surrounding rens nd many hamlets to form a
now government or the grcat st te itself, they pleced such powers of
government logically in the noiioral body as vould control and regulate
in the land all the ffnirs of common interest. They did'not place
such powers es would control locolized afftirs of narticuler locelities
in the national body; they Jeft those povers logicnlly with the locel
governrents for the locul nuthoriti s. Th's, the state secured its
proper found tion nd grcat strenth. Powers for common interests,
t solve nationally, lourd the peorle nationally. Powors for local
interests, to solve locnlly, bound the people locally. In their loce-
lity the people vitelized the state as a whole.
Penefits in Jepen
In the cities of J: pan todey the rich fruits of all these experie-
rees cen le utilized. Accomplisimnt: in bogun by charting the clear
course for the future.
The Constitution of Je an esiae'ishes for all Japinese the fulfil-
Iment of the Pirst greet prineiple which it took the puople in the
western world so lon to schieve. The Jonstitution gives end insures
to the peonle of Jnpun the soveroignty of Japan. The old concept of
King und Sub joct or Lord and Jerf no a nrincinle with which to conduct
government in Japir, not only has be n denied but also atandoned.
The thirty one ticles conorising Chepter TII of the Constitution
set forward the rich. und duties of the people. ll Japanese should
know what these rithos and duties ere, whet they mean nd above all else,
how precious they are. Colemn perform nce of them will domonstrete
their vulue to ll.
The Chihojichiho is the imnl menting ct of Chentor VIII of the
Constitution. As is lnown to ull todey, it is the org nic low which
creetes : nd cstoblishes the g nor:1 ruthority tnd structurc of ell the
local publie bodies. In its various rticlcs denling with ruthority
to handle local problems l cr lly, th: Lw giv s fulfillmont to the
second greet principle ovolved ty th long exp ri, nees of the cities.

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.97)
In Chapter I, Artiolo 2. t.ero are the spscific powers givem to
local publio bodies. The Lew, siso, of course, is the gor
rity for additional or spscial powere.
The City Definod
A city is en eggregate of peoplo vithin definite boundaries, estab
lishcd es a legal body to cerry on. eni mansge its affairs. It is a
municipality with definite agencies and cfficials whether elected or
appoirted. Cities e t under.creaticn by special or general charters
or special or general laws.
All city governments in the United Strtes are not organized in
the same structural fashion. Some cities have the commission form,
some the mayor-council, and others, the city manager. Generally, there
will be found the three brnches of government: Executive, legislative
and judicial. Generally, clso, these three brenches are separated legally;
the mayor has his or her own office, the assembly has its offices and the
courts have their offices. This organizationel pattern is the same in
Japan as established in the Chihojichiho except th't the judicial system
is nntional. In the English cities, the mayor is s meriber of the council
of the city or borough.
In most Americen citics there are agoncies which are independent in
charector. Thus the school boarc, the police commission, the prrk autho-
rity aro responsible directly to the electorate.
In the municipalities of the westorn democracies most oll the citi-
zens own their own homes, their farns, their lands and their factories.
They have teken great pride in privite property. The citizens have en-
joyed remarkable frocdom in priv to property when compared to other
pooples' stetus in othor countries, Cities in the United States do own
and oper te for the benefit of the neonle certain enterprises. These
are strictly public utilities such s transport-tion, water, gas, light
and distribution systems. However, th re has n ver been cny thought
that the state itself would rench out tnd over the cities to own end
manage property end enterprises. Indeed, the citizens in thc United
States would not permit  status to exist in vhich there wes stote
ovmership of all pro "ty or enterprises. A st tus such s that would
allow the existonce of : dictrtorship ind tne rosultant cancellution
of individunl rights.
The Citizen and Citizenship
In Chapter II of the Chihojichiho tho strtus of citizenship is
defined in large metsure. Cnly  stat con crente end give the status
of citizenship. For the New Jonrn the Constitution does this nd the
Chilojichiho p.rticulorizes it nt the s me time.
Tho turms citizen ond citizenship re imrortent. Th. torm citizon
has a number of countcrperts and some t chnic lities depending upon the
appronch to various subject m ttors. Howover, the essential clements
are these. The word citizen h's  long history becauss it comes from
the deys when Rome grew nd was powurful. Hence, it comes from the
Litin word civis. The citizen in Rone wes in the high:st class'of per-
sons who enjoyed tho full benefits of tlc jus civitatis or the Letin
phrnsc merning the citizen cxorcised ll the rights ind privileges of
the city wh ther they were religious, civil or politicrl in charecter.
The citicen wos  free nn. Over  long period of time the word citizen
was used only wh n murning th inhabitant of  city. It was distinctly
 term belonging to th: city. Moreover, nd of tremendous importence,
is the fnct thrt the citiz n w:s : pert of the sovereign power of the
city. ll the citizens were the sovereign power of the city. As time
passed and republics were formed, thus kceping the reletionship totween
people end sovereignty the sume, the term citizon wrs used rnd is used
todsy es applicd to the stato. It morns that tho puople as citizons of
the stete are the sovereignty of the st te. There crnnot be citizonship
in ny democrntic so  or r stntus of citizonship in  dictatorship.
This fact is certain whether the dictator is a good or en evil person or
is a political party which poses majestically as the people!

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.97)
In Chester I, Artiolo-E, tero are the spaaifis
to enforce the powers, Other laws mey give ad
rity for additional or special powers.
The City Defined
A city is en eggregate of peoplo within definite boundaries.
lishod as a legel body to cerry on ani manege its affaire. I6 1s
municipality with definite agencies and cfficials whether elebted or
appoirted. Cities e t under.creaticn by spedial or general charter
or special or general lews..
All city governments in the United Ststes are not organized in
the same structural fashion. Some cities have the commission form,
some the mayor-council, and others, the city manager. Generally, there
will be found the three brnches of government: Executive, legislative
and judicial. Generally, clso, these three branches are separated legally;
the mayor has his or her own office, the assembly has its offices and the
courts have their offices. This organizationel pattern is the same in
Japan as established in the Chihojichiho except thet the judicial system
is nntional. In the English cities, the mayor is s meiber of the counoil
of the city or borough.
In most Americen citics there are agencies which are independent in
charecter. Thus the school board, the police commission, the park eutho-
rity aro responsible directly to the electorate.
In the municipalities of the westorn democrncies most pll the citi-
zens own their own homes, their farns, their lands and their factories.
They have taken great pride in privte property. The citizens have en-
joyed renarkable frocdom in priv te property when compered to other
pooples' stetus in othor countries. Cities in the United States do own
and oper:to for the benefit of the neonle certain enterprises. These
are strictly public utilities such rs transportation, water, gas, light
and distribution systems. However, there has n ver boen cny thought
that the state itself would rench out tnd over the cities to own and
manage property ond enterprises. Indeed, the citizens in thc United
Statos would not permit e status to exist in which there wes state
ovnership of all pro; ty or entcrprises. A st tus such us that would
allow the existence of c dictrtorship cnd the rosultant cancellation
of individunl rights.
The Citizen and Citizenship
In Chapter II of the Chihojichiho the status of citizenship is
defined in large metsure. Cnly  stat con crente end give the status
of citizenship. For thc New J'nrn the Constitution does this nd the
Chihojichiho p.rticul:rizes it at the s me time.
The torms citizen end citizenship re imrortent. The torm citizon
has a number of counterperts and some t chnic lities depending upon the
approach to various subject m tters. Howover, the essential clements
are these. The word citizon h s " long history because it comes from
the deys when Rome grew nd was pow rful. Hence, it comes from the
Litin word civis. The citizen in Rone wes in the high:st class'of per-
sons who enjoyed tho full benefits of the jus civitatis or the Letin
phrasc merning the citizen cxercised cll the rights nd privileges of
the city wh ther they were religious, civil or politicrl in charecter.
The citiaen ws  froc un. Over  long period of time the word citizen
was used only wh n m oning th inhabitant of  city. It wns distinctly
 term belonging to th: city. Moroover, and of tremendous importance,
is the fnct thet the citiz n wis : pert of the sovereign power of the
city. All the citizens were the sovereign power of the city. As time
passed and republics were formed, thus keeping the relationship totween
people and sovereignty the sume, the term citizon ws used end is used
todsy es applicd to the stato. It merns that tho puoplc as citizons of
the stete are the sov reignty of the st te. There crnnot be citizonship
in ny democratic s  or r stotus of citizonship in  dictatorship.
This fact is certain whether the dictator is a good or en evil person or
is a political party which poses majestically es the people's choice or
the pconle's representatives such as a "Tictetorship of the Proletariat"
is trumpeted to bo.
3

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.97)
The status of citizenship carries with it a number of d
be most truthful, the iustant c Jrparese states, "I an  oitian of
the man or woman will say within his or her heart and than. aot upon
"I have many duties to perform. I have many responsibilfties. I have
these to perform. becauso they will benefit my government. They will bene
fit my lellow neighbor at the same instnnt!" Why does the good Japanese
say this? Thy must the man or woman feol so disposed? The reason is
bocause he knows that the whole iden of renresentative and democratio
government crontes und demands duties nd rights for others as well as
himself. The governments of the western democracies could not be what
they are today were ihe citizons thinking end acting only in terms of
themsclves or uheir immedinte family. of course, in western countries
many persons are sellish and coli horrted. There is little question but
that these peonle go from dry to day living in terms of just what they
can obtain from society for thcmsclves. However, the reat mass of
people live thcir daily lives, in and out, for the benefit of all the
people in their city, their ststo or their netional government. They
do not, nor have those before thom livad a puny little life just for
themselves, then for their family and then for their relatives! In the
new Japan in which the citizen, man or womnn, closes the genkan no to
behind and steps into the strect, he or she can and must say, "This is
our street. It is a part of our good city. e must do well for both!"
What does a citizen do in the community? What can he or she do?
What nust the citizen do? Why?
The Citinen es Voter
The most important duty which thc citizen performs is to vote not
only on the proper elcction ays for which laws or by-laws provide but
also in great public or privot m etinge on all issues of the day.
 To cast e ballot is ? privilufe derived from the state itself--the
strte, that is the governmont en) all the pcople contained within its
bounderies. The state gives this privilege to the qualified man or woman
because the exercice of it is of henorit for the state. The state must
Le : living orgunism giv n lif by cll its peonle, sll the people who
compose it. The orderly and proper conduct of r presentative government
is entiroly dependent upon the regular uxercise of this privilege to vote.
The term privilore has bour misused, bedly misuscd, by many. It is
froquently ref rr d to s th rigit to vot. with the ides thet this right
is some moral right as though t vire inl rit d by the individuel or was
to be essumed automnticslly by the individu l when ho'or she becomes e
Fan or women of age s the law proscribes. Such  concopt is wrong com-
plotely. The torm right should only bo thoucht of or used in the speci-
fie sonse of en act or a function. Moreover, the citizen in the nited
States or in England knows th t accordinr to lows applicable to all, he
or sho must qualify in sono way to obtain this "right to vote." Legal
requiromonts open to nll like must b. met.
In auy perticulur locelity the qurlificetions for voting re estab-
lished to form a properly finctionin; clectorate which will benefit the
government concerned. The electornte is not formed with the idea of what
will benefit one person, one far ily or "particular" peonle. In a pro-
found volume entitled Ceneral Prin inles of Constitutional Law as epplied
to the United Statos, Judge Co ley statou " uffrage cannot be a national
right of the individul vecouse il does not exist for the tenefit of the
individu 1 but for the benefit of the state itself." The structure of
the electorate is built in the interest of the stote.
A cardin:l principle of democratic or representative government is
the citizen's absolute rirht, his or lier unchallenged right, to select
and nomin te rs tho laws require any and ll candidates who are to run
for clective ofiice. What would this nean? Why? It merns only the
following: That the citizens themselves determine who the candidetes
nre to le for clcction.
In the nited States in the election of city officinls, cendidates
run for office os indonendents or as politicrl party nominees. , Although
the party may propose a number of n mes ns the party candidates the party

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.97)
The status of citizenship carries with it a 
be most truthful.the instant.c Jepunese states. "I aa,o
the man or woman will say within his or her hoart and the
"I have many duties to perferm. I have many.responsivilfties
these to perform. beoauso they will benefit my government. They will
fit my fellow neighbor at the same instnnt!" Why does the good Japane
say this? Why must the man or woman feol so disposed? The reason is
bocause he knows that the whole iden of representative and demooratio
government crentes and demends duties and rights for others as well as
himself. The governments of the western democracies could not be what
they ure today were the citizons thinking and acting only in terms of
themsclves or their immedinte fenily. of course, in western countries
many persons are selfish nud cold herrted. There is little question but
that these peonle go from dry to day living in terms of just what they
can obtain from society for thcmsclves. However, the great mass of
people live thoir daily lives, in and out, for the benefit of all the
people in their city, their stato or their national government. They
do not, nor have those before thom livad a puny little life just for
themselves, then for their family and then for their relatives! In the
new Japan in which the citizen, man or womnn, closes the genkan no to
behind and steps into the strect, he or she can and must say, "This is
our street. It is a part of our good city. e must do well for both!"
What does a citizen do in the community? What can he or she do?
What nust the citizen do? Why?
The Citinen as Voter
The most important duty which thc citizen performs is to vote not
only on the proper elcction cays for which laws or by-laws provide but
also in grent public or privat m etings on all issucs of the day.
. To cast & ballot in ? privilure derived from the state itself--the
starte, that is the goverrmont end ll the pcople contained within its
bounderius. The state gives this privilege to thc qualificd man or woman
because the exercise of it is of benofit for the state. The state must
be & living organism givon lif. by cll its peoplc, sll the people who
compose it. The orderly and propor conduct of r presentative government
is entiroly dependent upon the regular uxercise of this privilege to vote.
The term privilore has beer misused, badly misuscd, by many. It is
froquently reforr d to as the rigit to vot with the ides thst this right
is some moral right as though t were inl orit d py the individuel or was
to be essumed automaticslly by the individul when he'or she becomes e
ran or women of age as the law proscribos. Such a concopt is wrong com-
plotely. The torm right should only be thought of or used in the speci-
fie sonse of en act or a function. Horeover, the citizen in the nited
States or in England knows th t accordinr to lows applicable to all, he
or sho must qunlify in some way to obtain this "right to vote." Logal
requiromonts open to nll ,like must b. m t.
In auy perticulur locality the qurlificstions for voting rre estab-
lished to form a properly fnotionin clectorate which will benefit the
govornment concerned. The electorote is not formed with the idee of what
will benefit one person, one fer ily or "particuler" peonle. In a pro-
found volume entitled Ceneral Prin inles of Constitutionel Law as epplied
to the United Statos, Judge Co ley stutay " uffrage cennot be a national
right of the individual pecnuse il does not exist for the tenefit of the
individu 1 but for the benefit of the state itself." The structure of
the electorate is built in the interest of the state.
A cardin.l principle of democratic or representative government is
the citizen's absolute riht, his or her unchallenged right, to select
and nomin te as tho laws require any and ell candidates who aro to run
for elective ofrice. Whet would this meen? Why? It merns only the
following: That the citizons themselves determine who the candidetes
nre to le for clcction.
In the nited States in the clection of city officinls, condidates
run for office os indonendents or as volitiorl party nominees.  Although
the party may propose  number of nomes ns the party candidates, the party
4

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.97)
does not make tho final nomination. This the voters do in the dirons
primury eluctions which, of course, come before the regular elections.
These two separate eleotions naturally are more expensive than just,one
for the taxpayors.
In Janen, candid:tes are elso independents and political party
nominees. Howevor, in Japan the final celeotion and final ohoice of can-
didates has generally become e function of the noliticsl parties. Begause
of this different system, the inrividu:l Japenese citizen must exert his
or her influence in rarty reetin's to secure tho selection of good candi-
dates. If this work is left to "oters" then the results will not always
be plensin.
As a principle this fre dom of choice of candidates must be followed
and made real by freedom of cesting the brllot in clections. The voter
in Japan today can elect whom he pleses in n free, peacoful and orderly
manner.
Entirely different from the.demoerstic methods in the state just
described in which the citizen hes free choice of candidates end e free
election, is the stato in vhich the citizon is told out right just whom
the specific candidates can b ar.d will bo. After this autocratic squeeze
the citizen is then told or forced to vote for these persons and only these
persons. Thus, the choices are mede by the officials or those in power
of the state; they certainly ure rot made ty the people or goneral popu-
lace. It is self-evident that the controlling group in this kind of n
stete through such dictetorial manipulations, perpetuate themselves or
their kind in power. Ac brazenly as they do this, they cunningly use .
the terms citizen, citizenship nnd democr cy. It is  tragody to have
given to the world such norvarsions in this manner. However, the Japanese
old proverb warns us Tore no menzen ni oni ga suru. Domons live in front
of Buddhist temples.
An informed vot in the goel of all emocrntic people. Citizens
must find out the why of clections. There is as much responsibility upon
the voter to find out whet the issu s are as upon the candidrte for office
on his or her part to oxplain to ,ll thc icsucs of the campaign. No voter
can sey honestly, "I do not knon why ho st nds for lection," or "I do not
know eny of the crndidates." A rest citizen will make it his or her busi-
ness to find out what problemr and questions ar boing discussed in the
campaign and for what prin inles tue mn or woman stands. The citizon as
voter must meke cortain the cihar cter nd cu lity o" the candidates. The
voter must be certein of good c ndidetes us the furmer is when he picks
choiee  pples or pe rs from the tree. Nother Nature pleys a trick on tho
furmer now cnd then beerust olthough the apple or peer appears to be sound
and good, they soretimen ure ped inside. So it is with candidates. Some
candidates have hollow heads nd all voters must bo narre not to lect
them! Boing a good citizen in reprusentative government is serious; it
is not common-place. Citizenship is certainly not  metter of shikata gn
nai! Citizenchip is a living thing. The men or woman males it what it
is; the result of this muke's good or bed govorru.ent.
Citizen as Taxrayer
Singled out, the next nost innortnit duty of a citizen is to pay
texes as the laws prescribe. In no country are taxes ponular but in all
countries texes are necessery to keop covernnent functioning. Good gov-
ernment renderin services is not just a matter of being efficient; it
is a matter concernod also with the humenitarien affairs. It costs money
to be efficient in overnment. It costs money to br humanitarinn in gover-
nment. Efficieney und humanitarirnism are both needed.
What do all ther things mein? They mean only one thing: Good govern-
ment must serve the sizenry faithfully and regulerly. It must build good
streets, public buildings, schools, heulth centers, water sunply systems,
hospitals and many other sanitational t cilities. It must provide police
and Pire protection. In addition, it must insurc reliof for the needy, the
aged, the crippled und infirmed. All of these services cost money end this
money comes genernlly from taxes. In order to livo in a free society, the
good citizen is willing to pay his or her shure of the costs of all the
  nrtntion nei

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.96)
does not make tho final nomination. This the votere do in
primury eloctions which, of course, come before the regular eleot
These two separate eleotions naturally are more expensive thmn gust
for the taxpayors.
In Janen, condidr tes are elso independents and political party 
nominees. However, in Japan the final seleotion and final choiee of oan
didates has generally become e function of the nolitical parties. Begauso
of this different system, the inrividu:l Japenese citizen must exert hi
or her influence in party meetins to secure tho selection of good candi-
dates. If this work is left to "others" then the results will not alweys
be pleasing.
As a principle this fre dom of choice of candidates must be followed
and made real by freedom of cesting the brllot in eleotions. The voter
in Japan todsy can elect whom he plo..scs in a free, peecoful and orderly
manner.
Entirely different from the.demoeretic methods in the state just
described in which the citizen hes free choice of candidates and a free
election, is the state in which the citizon is told out right just whom
the specific candidates can b ar.d will bo. After this autocratic squeeze
the citizen is then told or forced to vote for these persons and only these
persons. Thus, the choices are mede by the officials or those in power
of the state; they certainly ure rot made ly the people or goneral popu-
loce. It is self-evident that the controlling group in this kind of n
stete through such dictntorial manipulations, perpetuate themselves or
their kind in power. Ac brazenly an they do th's, they cunningly use .
the terms citizen, citizenship nid democr.cy. It is a tragody to have
given to the world such porvarsions in this manner. However, the Japanese
old proverb warns us Tore no monzen ni oni ga suru. Domons live in front
of Buddhist tomples.
An informed vot in the goel of all cemocrntic poople. Citizens
must find out the why of clectious. There is as much responsibility upon
the voter to find out whet the issu s are as upon the candidrte for office
on his or her pert to explain to Il tic issucs of the campaign. Ho voter
can sey honestly, "I do not knon why ho st:nds for (lection," or "I do not
know eny of the condidates." A rcn? citizen will rake it his or her busi-
ness to find out what problemt and questions ar boing discussed in the
campaign and for whnt prin inle t m'n or woman stands. The citizen as
voter must meke cortain the cir cter nd cu lity of the candidates. The
voter must be cortein of good c ndidctes us the furmer is when he picks
choiee  pnles or pe.rs from the tree. Nother Neture pleys a trick on tho
furmer now tnd then bec ust olthough the apple or peer anpears to be sound
and good, they soretimen ure ped incide. So it is with candidates. Some
candidates have hollon heads nd ali voters must be narre not to lect
them! Boing a good citizen in rerresentative goverrment is serious; it
is not common-plnce. Citizenship is certainly not e metter of shikata gn
nai! Citizenchip is a living thirg. The ren or woman males it what it
is; the result of this mate's good or brd goveraent.
Citizen as Taxrayer
Singled out, the next nont imnortmt cuty of a citizen is to pay
taxes es the laws prescribe. In no country are taxes ponular but'in all
countries tnxes are recessery to keop governnent funetioning. Good gov-
ernment rencorinr services is not just a matter of being efficient; it
is a matter concerned olso vith the humanitarion affairs. It costs money
to bo efficiont in covernment. It costs money to br humanitarien in gover-
nment. Efficieney nd huannitarirnism are both needed.
What do all ther things mean? They mean only one thing: Good govern-
ment must serve the sizenry faithfully and regularly. It must build good
streets, public builuinps, schools, heulth centers, wuter sunply systems,
hospitals ind meny other saritational i'cilities. It must provide police
and Pire protection. In nddition, it must insure relicf for the noedy, the
aged, the crippled und infirmed. All of these services cost money and this
money comes gener lly from taxes. In order to livo in & free society, the
good citizen is willing to pay his or her shure of the costs of tll the
services and protection rendered to the f mily or to the individual. In
the western democrscies millions of citizurs may their taxes in solemn duty
5

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
even at reat saorifice to themselves in order to maintain their demdoratie
way of life. In Japan millions are meeting their tax assessments promptly
notwithstanding the difficult conditions resulting from the war.
Just because taxes are unpopular there is e tendenoy among peoplo t
feel that if, by some meens, they can avoid paying them, they have done
something clever. On the other hand, there sometimes develops among tax
collectors a tendency not to get tex assessments right but simply to get
as much out of the tax payers as thev cen. We thus get a situation in
which tax assessmert end tex naying is regarded as e sort of battle of
wits between the collector end the citizen. This is ell wrong. To avoid
paying taxes is not a clover iut sn unsocial act. The good citizen is as
proud to ney his tnxes ns he is to do any other service to the community.
A good government is nroud to get its tax assessments right. It is par-
ticularly imnortant for the citizen to develop this right attitude of
mind towards taxes and in most of the western countries, by and large,
this attitude has been developed. For exemple, the British Treasury re
ceives several thousands of pounds every yeer from neople who say "I made
a false tax return some time ago and therefore defrauded the Government
of so much money. I feel that I should pay it back end here is the money."
This money is called "conscience money" rnd, of course, it would be far
better if everybody prid the right taxes at the right time end never had
to pay "conscience money". But the frct that people do send "conscience
money" to the government nroves that there is the right spirit of tax
morality emong them.
There ure three spects of immediate interest to the tax question.
In the first l .ce, no systen of tayation hus ever been heralded as
just, much less perfect. In the second place, the tax lews are passed
by the sction and vote of your representatives in the Diet and local
assemblies. The citizen must look to these representatives constantly
for either corrections or imrrovements in the tax lews. Your represen-
tetives are the law mekers; it is their funetion to chenge end improve
the lews. In the third vlace, every citizen must be concerned with
sensitle and worksble arswers to three pr: cticel tex questions: Where
does my tex money go? ho hordles my tex money? How is my tax money
spent: No citizen crn take these questions lightly or ellow them to
become of no concern. hen public money is collected nd spent in the
municipality, sll the people in the city have an interest.
In terms of these thrce  spoctr, somo further importent points for
the citizen must be kent in mind const ntly.
F. Then taxes ere levied, they cre levied by the luwmakers for
p'rticul:r reasons und purposes. fhe citizen should leern to the best
of his or her bi lity what these rensons nd purposes re; such is their
duty. The city officials nd the mombers of the municipal assembly should
mrke the reusons snd purposes cle r to the citizens; such is their duty.
The reel citizen is not concerned wish rumors, wild statements, trumpet-
ing and gre t noise o be substitutes for cither the resson or the rur-
pose for the tax. ll neonle who persist in fabric ting anything but
the truth of the tax law or bv-law should have their speeches challenged
and refuted on the snot. This is the democratic way to heve these evil
rumors and gossin stopned and rt tho same time to cave the fact and truth
given to all. Good Jaranese will shun these peonle who persist in bear-
ing false tidings.
b. When taxes are collected, they are to be paid by the citizen as
the laws or by-laws provide. The citizen is concerned directly, first
with the mount of the tax to be weid, and, second with the system of
actually making the assessment. In other words the citizen is concerned
with the amount the government his the right to receive as well as the
method of obtaining it. The total emount of yen is one thing to the citi-
zen; the edministretion by the tex collectors is something else.
The voluntary return cnd reassessment system nroviced in the present
Jepanese tax laws leaves much to be desired. lowever, the evils of the
reassessment system will diminish when the public in general learns to make
a more realistic return. Imnrovements should constently be sought to eli-
minate inequities and injustices, but agrin this should be done through the
elected represent tives of the reople and not by the minority pressure
groups whose m in oojcctive is to sprend discontent and political propa-

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
even at great sacrifice to thomselves in order to maintgin their
way of life. In Japan millions are meeting their tax assessm
notwithstanding the difficult conditions resulting from the we
Just because taxes are unpopular there is e tendenoy among peoplen
feel that if, by some meens, they can avoid paying them, they have donm
something clever. On the other hand, there sometimes develops among tax
collectors a tendency not to get tex assessments right but simply to get
as much out of the tax payers as they cen. We thus get a situation im
which tax assessment and tex naying is regarded as e sort of battle of
wits between the collector and tho citizen. This is all wrong. To avoid
paying taxes is not a clever lut an unsocial act. The good citizen is a
proud to ney his taxes as he is to do any other service to the community.
A good government is proud to get its tax assessments right. It is par
ticularly import nt for the citizen to develop this right attitude of
mind towards taxes and in most of the western countries, by and large,
this attitude has been developed. For example, the British Treasury re
ceives several thousands of pounds every yeer from people who say "I made
a false tax return some time ego and therefore defrauded the Government
of so much money. I feel that I should pey it back end here is the money."
This money is callec "conscience money" nd, of course, it would be fer
better if everybody prid the right taxes at the right time end never had
to pay "conscience money". But the fact that people do send "conscience
money" to the government nroves that there is the right spirit of tax
morality among them.
There ure three :spects of immediate interest to the tax question.
In the first l ce, no systen of taxation hus ever been heralded as
just, much less perfect. In the second pluce, the tax lews are pessed
by the sction and vote of your representatives in the Diet and local
assenblies. The citizen must look to these representatives constantly
for either corrections or imrrovements in the tax lews. Your represen-
tetives are the lew mekers; it is their function to chenge and improve
the lews. In the third vlace, every citizen must be concerned with
sensitle and worksble answers to three prectical tex questions: Where
does my tex money go? ho h'rdles my tex money? How is my tax money
spent: No citizen cn take these questions lightly or ellow them to
become of no concern. hen public money is collected nd spent in the
municipality, sll the people in the city have en interest.
In terms of these thrce .spocts, somo further importent points for
the citizen must be kent in mind const ntly.
8. hen tuxes ere lovied, they pre levied by the luwmakers for
p'rticul: r reasons und purposes. The citizen should lesrn to the best
of his or her bility what these rensons nd purposes re; such is their
duty. The city officials nd the mombers of the municipal assembly should
mike the reusons snd purposes cle r to the citizens; such is their duty.
The reel citizen is not concerned wish rumors, wild statements, trumpet-
ing and gre t noise o be substitutes for either the rerson or the nur-
pose for the tax. ll neonle who persist in fabric ting anything but
the truth of the tax law or bv-law should hove their speeches challenged
end refuted on the spot. Thi: is the deroeratic way to heve these evil
runors and gossip stopned end et the same time to cave the fact and truth
given to all. Good Ja anese will shun these peonle who persist in bear-
ing false tidings.
b. When taxes are collected, they are to be paid by the citizen as
the laws or by-laws provide. The citizen is concerned directly, first
with the smount of the tax to be rrid, und, second with the system of
actually makins the assessment. In other words the citizen is concerned
with the amount the government his the right to receive as well as the
method of obtaining it. The total emount of yen is one thing to the citi-
zen; the edministrntion ty the tex collectors is something else.
The voluntary return and reassessment system proviced in the present
Jepanese tax laws leaves much to be desired. lowever, the evils of the
renssessment system will diminish when the public in general learns to make
a more renlistic return. Imnrovements should constantly be sought to eli-
minate inequities and injustices, but agrin this should be done through the
elected reprcsent:tives of the reople and not by the minority pressure
grouns whose m in ob joctive is to sprend discontent end political propa-
ganda. Tax officiels and the public should approach this serious problem
in a democratic and legal manner.
6

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.96)
o? When the citizen is not satisried with the-tax assesement the
amounts to be paid or the methcds used in their collection, he on she
can seek relief from the bad or unfair condition; he or she can make an
appeal precisely es the law provices. The makers of the lews and by-lawe
established the provisions end moans whereby just those appeals and re
views could be made by any citizon. Thero is a definite and olear road
open to euch person who has n complaint. Legel end orderly action to seek
relief as the la: doclares is the only course to be followed. Physical
attacks on tax officials is anerchy. Mob violence egainst tax offioials
is anarchy. Both nro violrtions of tho Constitution and the laws. All
guilty offenders should be pu ished and punished swiftly. Mass demonstre-
tions and prrading to produce th: intinid tion of tex officials ere re-
sorting to annrchy ud those  cts, too, are violntions of the lnws. More-
over, their perpotritors should be punished swiftly eccording to the law.
On these serious matters let therc be no equivocation. Police, proouretors
and judges act on the frcts cefore them. The polico on good evidence ar-
rest. The procurators on marshalled focts prosecute. The judges in terms
of the evidence tlhe procurators nd defense nttornies present to them,
sentence snd mete out the punishment to the guilty or release and discharge
thoso proven not guilty.
Thus, the citizen cannot have the govornment of which he is a party
pl yed with or tinkered with hy ny one or pny group. Responsible govern-
mort has never been . toy nor will it be so.
d. ihen tex of' cials give illegal concossions outside the law to
people, show doliberate favoritism or m ke illegal and fraudulent assess-
ments, equally switt should be their punishment. They have broken the
very law which they, es officiels, hev sworn to uphold. Here again,
this action for determinstion of fuilt und proper punishment must bo with-
in the process of the luw; that is, in th. duly constituted courts in 
legal and orderly fashion. Excus, mitigation and stultificntion are
wrong. Thoy damage pood gover: t.
In Japen, ns in ev ry country in he world today, tho question of
what is  just and fiir tex low is rec iving the s rious ettention of
government. In Jepan purticulerly, th prot l n of udequate sources of
r'venue for local governnonts is prenontine & problom thet must be solved
promptly. In the hands of your eleci d reprecenbstives in the Diet re-
poses tho legal euthority to colv thes. knotty problens. By your vote
in the recent House of Repre sontatives cleetior you, yourself, heve shoped
the solution thet will be forthcoming.
Local nublic officicls owe a duty to their peonle to economize end
seve every possible yen of texes in the operation of locel governments.
Thoir duty is rs important s uho tnxpayer's duty is to pay taxes, and
the citizens themaelves should see thet ecoromy is cerried out. Only by
this close cooperation betvean citizen and gov rnmen', will denocracy
become a desirable syster in Jp .
Citizen's Day to Day Living
Voting regularly nd payin ti xur regularly stand out as the two
rost important duties of the citizcn. However, these two duties are but
caretully integrater arts of t). citizon's dey to day living, doy to dey
intrrert in the city's affeirs, or the day to dey cctions with the city
offici, ls end other citiccns.
Tod y in Jupan there are 2z2 city governments which range in popula-
tion from 26,101 poplt in Aioi in Hyogo Ken to the metropolitan system
within Tokyo-To with 4, 555, St5 people. Lorcover, there ere 50 cities of
over 100, 000 popul tion in Jepan or in percentage, about one quarter of
the total popul tion. The siz of the city is oftcn s key to the rele-
tivo complexity of both the politicnl ond industrirl or cconomic tffairs
in which tho citizen will purticipate. In the metropoliten cities the
comnloxity is most pronounced. In the smnll cities the v riety of pro-
bloms cre fewer in number. Ithough this is true generolly, it does not
follow that r given problom in a smell city mey not be just ss intense
or just as pressins for un immodiata

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.96)
o. When tho citizen is not satisried with the tax msaemm
amounts to be paid or the mekhcds used in their colleotion he om
appeal precisely es the law provices. The makers of the lews and by-law
established the provisions end moans whereby just those appeals and re
views could be made by any citizcn. Thero is a definite and olear road
open to each person who has a complaint. Legel and orderly aotion to eoek
relief is the law doclares is the only course to be followed. Physical
attacks on tax officials is anerchy. Mob violence egainst tax officials
is enarchy. Both arc violrtions of tho Constitution end the laws. All
guilty offenders should be pu ished and punished swiftly. Mass demonstre-
tions end perading to produce th: intinid tion of tex officials ere re-
sorting to unnrchy nnd those pcts, too, nre violations of the lnws. More-
over, their perretritors should be punished sviftly eccording to the law.
On these serious matters let therc bc no equivocation. Police, proourators
and judges act on the frcts before them. The polico on good evidence er-
rest. The procurators on mnrshalled focts prosecute. The judges in terms
of the evidence the procurators nd defense attornies present to them,
sentence end mete out the punishment to the guilty or release and discharge
thoso proven not guilty.
Thus, the citizen cannot have the govcrnment of which he is a party
pl: yed with or tinkered with hy ny one or ony group. Responsible govern-
mort has never been t toy nor will it be so.
d. ihen tax of' cials give illegal concessions ontside the law to
peonle, show deliberate favoritism or mke illegal and fraudulent assess-
ments, equally switt should be their punishment. They have broken the
very law which they, es officiels, hev sworn to uphold. Here again,
this action for dcterminstion of fuilt and proper punishment must bo with-
in the process of the luw; that in, in th. duly constituted courts in e
legal and orderly fashion. Excus, mitigation and stultification are
wrong. Thoy damage pood gover: t.
In Japen, as in ev ry courtry in che world today, the question of
what is a just and frir tex lrw is rec iving the s rious ettention of
government. In Jupon prticulorly, th prol Im of udequato sources of
rovenue for loctl governnents is precintine & problom thet must be solved
promptly. In the hands of your elecled reprecentutives in the Diet re-
poses the legal euthority to colv thes. kuotty problens. By your vote
in the rocent House of Repre sontatives clectior you, yoursclf, heve shoped
the solution thet will be forthcoming.
Local nublic officicls owo a duty to their peonle to economize end
seve every possible yen of texes in the oporation of locel governments.
Thoir duty is es importrnt s uho texpnyer's duty is to pay texes, end
the citizens themaelves should see thet ecoromy is cerried out. Only by
this close cooperation betveen citizen and cov rnmen', will denocracy
become a desirable system in J p n.
Citizen's Day to Day Living
Voting regularly nd puying t xur regularly etand out as the two
nost important dutirs of the citizcn. However, these two duties are but
carctully integrate arts or tl citizon's dey to day livins, dey to dey
intcrert n the city'n affeire, or the day to dey cetions with the city
offici: ls end other citizens.
Tod y in Jepan there sre 2z? city governmants which range in popula-
tion from 26,101 p ople in Aioi in Hyogo Ken to the metropolitan system
within Tokyo-To with 4, S55, 505 people. Loreover, there ere 50 citios of
ovar 100, 000 popul tion in Jen n or in porcuntage, about one quarter of
the total populition. The siz: of the city is ofton s key to the rele-
tiv: complexity of both the politicrl nd industrirl or cconomic tffairs
in which tho citizen will purticipate. In the metropoliten cities the
comnloxity is most prorounced. In the small cities the viriety of pro-
blems cre fewer in number. Ithough this is true generolly, it does not
follow that r given problom in a small city mey not bo just as intense
or just as pressing for an immodiato solution es that in e metropolitan
nrou.
7

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.97)
The citizen is in mary ways more concerned with excellent lead
ship for the city government th'n for the national government: With
little or no positive design or pattern. For many citiea, ali tha
be said of them once a visitor hes passed through and observed thoir 
empty character is, "ell, this is Lig all right!" One oannot say, h
a splendid city this is! It has much to offer." The citizen dan not 
ford to have the very city in which ho or she lives, grow up and by sho
size cover everyone over with its bigness.
Tie ood Jap nese cannot be conplecent in attitude for his city ar
feirs. hat was excellent for his vother and father as well as for his
grandmother and grandfatner is in ll likelihood most undesirable todey.
ie cannot keen ragging th? decades behind us as though they are
our own! New brains, new ideps only can answer today's problems.
Whether or not we like to contemnlate the dramatic advances in poli-
tical and economic effeirs, these more than likely have moved the props
and supports from underneeth the sleepy citizen: the effect politically
to good government is like an earthquake.
The citizens vith their leeders must determine a goal for their city.
They must establish a policy and some procedure to obtain it. They must
then work unitedly for full rccomplishment. The goal must be within a
reasonable bucget. We can ncver over extend ourselves without surprise.
le must use what we have before us. h very fat man left with his tailor
some cloth out of which he supposed there was enough to have a kimono
made. Later, when he returned to the tailor shop, he was shocked. The
tailor had handed him instead of a kimono two abbreviated pair of swim-
ming trunks, saying, "Dear friend, I heve to make my garments according
to the cloth!"
The citizen's duties  cuually begin with his or her voting a good
cendidate to offico. As uhe noycr &nnounces his policies and the assembly
either does or does not express its confidence in thece policics, the citi-
zen has a definite part to contribute. He or she mey support or reject
the iders.
The important point tor the citizen is to take a stand. In doing so
he must then inform the meyor and asserblymen ot his or her stand.
In the United States, England, Australis and New Zealand not to say
other grent domoera c countrie, the citiz ns trke both personal end in-
direct neans of telling their officials hether clected or not, just what
they think on what ever the issue is. If the distonce to the proper office
is not too great in either time or ron y. th: citizen in all likelihood
goos to cull upon the mayor, his assistant, the administretors or essembly-
men. fhe citizen l avos his vi ws orolly or in writing, depending upon
how serious the issue is concidured to be. If the occrsion is a public
meeting, the officials end represntatives ore celled upon by the citizens
to oxpluin their course of cction. The se putlic mctings of the citizen
with the members of th ir govornnent h ve been thoroughly b neficial to
the maintenance of good gov rimont. hon th se n rsonal relations can
net be efrcctuat d, th citizen, dapending upon the urgency of the occa-
sion uses the telephon, the tolegraph, lotters nd petitions. Communi-
cetions are ll sent direetly to the members of government concerned.
They are not left for some dullard to relsy.
No more important right is opon to the Jap nese than thet of petitions,
whether it is to be us d or initiating a progrum or un action for & by-
lew or for th: r cn'l of som. mombor of the local government. The
Chihojichino orovid.s he means for accomplishing this right for either
purpos. The citizon should nd must be most car ful in uffixing his han
and name to any and all petitions. Cranks, discontents, trouble-makers
und many subversive cloments start petitions es well es reesonablo good
Jopanese who endesvor to bettor, to develop or to remody rffeirs. A
shop keeper one dey wes cnnoyed with the world in goneral and his poor
business conditions in particular. A gentlomrn and r lady called upon
him in the midst of his troubled feelings. They showed him some pages
of a potition and discussod city streota ond tho

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.97)
The oitizen is in mary ways more concerned witho
few exoeptions, most cities havu just grown up
little or no positive design or pattern. For many otsiowa
be said of them once a visitor has passed through end obeer
empty character is, "vell, this is tig all rightl" Ohe cmm 
a splendid city this is! It has mich to offer." The oitisah dam
ford to have the very city in which ho or she lives, grow up and by
size cover everyone over with its bigness.
The good Jap nese cannot be complacent in attitude for his bity 
feirs. what was excellent for his mother and father as well as for his
granmother and grandfatner is in sll likelihood most undesirable today
Ve cannot keep ragging th? docades behind us as though they are
our own! New brains, new idess only cen answer today's problems.
Whether or not we like to contemnlate the dramatic advances in poli-
tical and economic effairs, these more than likely have moved the props
and supports from underneath the sleepy citizen: the effect politically
to good government is like an earthquake.
The citizens with their leeders must determine a goal for their city.
They must establish a policy and some procedure to obtain it. They must
then work unitedly for full cccomplishment. The goal must be within a
reasonable budget. We can never over extend ourselves without surprise.
le must use what we have before us. A very fat man left with his tailor
some cloth out of which he supposed there was enough to have a kimono
made. Later, when he returned to the tailor shop, he was shocked. The
tailor had hunded him instead of e kimono two abbreviated pair of swim-
ming trunks, saying, "Dear friend, I heve to make my garments eccording
to the cloth!"
The citizen's duties ccuunlly begin with his or her voting a good
cendidate to officc. As uhe nnyor &nnounces his policies and the assembly
either does or does rot express its confidence in thece policics, the citi-
zen has a definite part to contribute. He or she mey support or rejuct
the ides.
The important point r'or the citizen is to take e stand. In doing so
he must then inform the meyor and asserblymen of his or her stand.
In the United States, England, Australia and New Ze.aland not to say
other great domocre c countrice, the citiz ns take both personal end in-
direct neans of telling their officials thether clected or not, just what
they think on what ever the issue is. If the distonce to the proper office
is not too great in either time or ron y. th: citizen in ell likelihood
goos to coll upon the mayor, his assistant, tho administretors or essembly-
men. fhe citizen l evos his vi ws orolly or in writing, depending upon
how serious the issue is considered to be. If the occrsion is a public
meeting, the officials end repr sontatives re crlled upon by the citizens
to oxplain their course of action. These putlic m etings of the citizen
with the members of their governnent n ve been thoroughly bineficiel to
the maintunance of good gov runont. hen th s nrsonal relations can
net be effectuat d, th citizen, dapending upon the urgency of the occe-
sion uses the tolephon, the tolegraph, letters nd petitions. Communi-
cetions are all sent direetly to the members of government concerned.
They are not left for some dullard to re lry.
No more important right is opon to the Jep nese than thet of petitions,
whether it is to be us d or initiating a progrum or un action for a by-
lew or for th r cn'l of som: membor of the local government. The
Chihojichiho provid's he mecns for accomplishing this right for either
purpos. The citizen should nd must be most car ful in affixing his han
and name to nny and all petitions. Cranks, diseontents, trouble-mekers
und many subversive cloments start petitions es well es reesonable good
Jepanese who endervor to better, to dovelop or to remedy rffeirs. A
shop keoper one doy wes cnnoyed with the world in goneral and his poor
business conditions in particular. A gentlomrn and r lady called upon
him in tho midst of his troubled feelings. They showed him some pages
of  petition nd discusscd city streets end th ir improvements, new
dreins, new ditohes, bigger c nsls, more sprce. The shop kecper was

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
irritated with what wes said. To get rid of the persons, he signed
: papers.
Some deys later, to his amazement, the engineers of the city along
with carpenters, nechanics and many other workmen came and tore down the
whole front portion of his shop. "Hold off! What is this?" he cried..
"We are doing over this section of the street," the engineers said. "The
city will send you a till leter!"
The shop keeper realined too late whet he had signed.
loreover, e wealthy gentleman hed e secretary whose normal business
it was to presert letters, conmunications, financial papers and checks
for him. to sign. The master asked only one question usually, "Where do
I sign?" The secretary εlways had to indicete the line. On some occa-
sions the mnster became imnatient with the secretary for one reason or
another and would address him, "You are e fool!" Soon the secretary
left and the master did not hear from him agrin. But the master all too
soon heard from his benker. "vou have little money left!" the benker
warned. "Thy did you do this to me:" asked the alermed master. "You
have done this to yc 'self!" returned the banker.
Then the banker showed the master the letter of directions which
his secretary lad him sign so unwittingly. The letter addressed to the
ranker and signed by the master read:
"You will please oblige me promptly and streight way meke
all payments to my secretary as he has arranged so.well. I
have thou ht for  long time that I was a little fool. I'm not.
I'm  big fool."
The citizen in J:pan shoul be in the unassailable position of being
proud to have his or her han and nome effixed to a petition. Affixing
the hon in anger, in dists ste, in innocence, or worse, in just simple
friendship because a friend desires it, is to rind one's solf publicly
as nn unthinking ne'er-do-well. The citizen can heve years of regret
nd embarrrssment to faco rogul rly by empty headud nction end stupidity.
Civic Orgonizrtions
In drily life the citizen need not be confined to nssocintions with
only politic-l organizi tions. Crent prestige can be brought to a city
through the thoughtful work of civic societies, councils or organizations.
In the United states in over 600 cities, perrenent civic organizations
i vo been founded by ohoughtful nd progressively minded people.
These civic essocietions seck only retter government. They ure
non-political in purpose nd ectivity despite the fact thet many of their
members are also arcont polivicians and memuers of political parties.
In fuct, it can be  id that many nolitic.l leaders have taken their cues
for their cempaigns and porty plateorms from the strong, progressive,
civic programs of these varicd city or: nizntions. Exemples of some
outstanding associatiors are: "he Ho ston Citizens Charter Committee,
The Kansas City Civil Leapue, T e Los Angeles Civic Committee, The
Citizens League of Clevelerd and The Saattle Municipal League.
The purposes of the orgoni? tion cre quite varied. Sone leegues
devote their endcsvors to securing und distributing information of an
objective nature on the coreers and lives of candidstes seeking public
office. Tle emiers meke it thoir business to inform the electorate,
especially durin: the three or four months of the campaigning. Other
organiaations expend their main efforts upon getting enuctment of spe-
cific programs or upon roform movements. Some societies have engaged
solely in reseerch and anelysis of conditions in government; such in-
formetion is usually given to the public in printed form for general
consumption.
Orgenizstions of a national character as well us these local ones
oxist, too, such os the famous Fotional Lorgue of omen Voters and the
 Cil f WomenBoth of those nationels euide

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.97)
irritated with what wes said. To get rid of the persons, he
: papers.
Some deys later, to his amazement, the engineers of the oity mfong
with carpenters, nechanics and many other workmen came and tore down th
whole front portion of his shop. "Hold off! What is this?" he oroo
"We are doing over this section of the street," the engineers said.
city will send you a till leter!"
The shop keeper realized too late what he had signed.
Moreover, a weelthy gentleman had e secretary whose normal business
it was to presert letters, conmunications, financial papers and cheoks
for him. to sign. The master asked only one question usually, "Where do
I sign?" The secretary εlways had to indicate the line. On some occa-
sions the mnster became imnatient with the secretary for one reason or
another and would address him, "You are e fool!" Soon the secretary
left and the master did not hear from him agein. Rut the master all too
soon heard from his benker. "You have little money left!" the banker
warned. "Thy did you do this to me:" asked the alarmed. master. You
have done this to yc 'self!" returned the tanker.
Then the banker showed the master the letter of directions which
his secretary had him sign so unwittingly. The letter addressed to the
canker and signed by the master read:
"You will pleace oblige me promptly and streight way meke
all payments to my secretary as he has arranged so.well. I
have thought for a long time that I was a little fool. I'm not.
I'm  big fool."
The citizen in J:pen shoul be in the unassnilable position of being
proud to have his or her han and nrme elfixed to a petition. Affixing
the han in anger, in dist ste, in innocence, or worse, in just simple
friendship because  friend desires it, is to rind one's self publicly
as nn unthinking ne'er-do-well. The citizen can hsve years of rogret
end embarrrssment to face rogul rly by empty headed action end stupidity.
Civic Orgonizations
In drily life the citizen need not be confined to associntions with
only politic-l organiz: tions. Crent prestige can be brought to n city
through the thoughtful work of civic societies, couneils or organizations.
In the United stntes in over 600 cities, permenent civic organizations
i vo been founded by ohoughtful nd progressively ninded people.
These civic sssociations seck only rettor government. They re
non-political in purpose nd ectivity despite the fact thet meny of their
members are also arcont polivicians and memuers of political parties.
In fact, it can be  id that many nolitic.l leaders have taken their cues
for their cempaigns and porty plstf rms trom the strong, progressive,
civic programs of these verice city orgnizntions. Exemples of some
outstanding associatiors re: The Ho ston Citizens Charter Committee,
The Kansas City Civil Leapue, Te Los Angeles Civic Committee, The
Citizens Lengue of Clevelerd and Tue eattle Kunicipal League.
The purposes of the organizution cre quite varied. Some leagues
devote their cndeavors to securing und distributing information of an
objective nature on the coreors und lives of candidstes seeking public
office. The emiere mike it their business to inform the electorate,
especinlly durin: the three or four months of the campaigning. Other
organiaations expene their main efforts upon getting enactment of spe-
cific programs or upon rotorm movements. Some societies have engaged
solely in reseerch and anelysis of conditions in government; such in-
formetion is usually given to the public in printed form for general
consumption.
Orgenizstions of a national character as well as these locel ones
exist, too, such ns the famous Fotional Lorgue of omen Voters and the
Notional Council of Bomen. Both of these nationels guide the local
club memberships. The Nation:l Yunicipal Lerguo in New York is one of

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.95)
the most femous organizetions for Letter government in the United
it has a long and outstending record of service to organiaat
individuals.
Tur tho citizen is f member of political party and alpu imrmme
or mor. civic orranizetions, he or she is tompted only too orten when
desjring laws changed or programs enacted to lean upon either as thouch
it rig'c become a substitute for the cl cted legal representative i
gover ment. In the larger sense this  otion is elways wrong. In repre
sen ativo povernmon' no politic 1 nirty or any organization is ever a
substitut for ho : uly clected oicial. This man or woman is the
leg l represcntstiv und no ther crson or association can ever assume
thet vost vhile le or she is in ofiicc. Sometimes politicel orginizations
by he cunnine advances of their ofricials or members are held out to the
votors es panacean substitutes not only for the representative but also
for the actunl government. The thiiking Japanese need nover be duped or
trepped by such political witoncr: fi!
As  leeder, n city, large or smill, can ulways be singled out be-
cause of its community spirit. hen the citizens re activc and parti-
cipate in the affairs of tho city, they m ke th: city alive and it there-
fore hus n atmosphere compelling to rll.
A groat city does not achiove its ruputation merely on the strength
of its teing the capital city or from the fact that great buildings.
financial und industrial houses, lurgu markets, electric trensnortational
fecilities and harbor facilities xist. A city must heve its rrtistic
attributes--thore must to rt, dramr and music. Thesc will be found in
the grert pordens, river or canrl parkweys, the churches, shrines end
temples--all vith thei: splendid sculpture of stone nd bronze, the art
studios, gallcrius nd museuis, the musierl acedemics, smell or large,
L nds and the oh mber and symphory orchestres. Muny Japonese have been
netrons of the orts; the rosults of their civic mindedness can be seon
in meny municip lities. any loenlitis bas onk the good and friendly
characters who hove lived th re. Their bonefactions should be taken.ss
standards for others to do likewis.
Citizen in the New Jonon
In the now  pen the citiz n cin :nd must be mor. independent in
his or her thinkin and vction n city s'frirs. Ench citizen hes 
vry definite contribution to m ko in th. city's cffcirs; it should
vield a good result for the comunity. Erc: citizen is a taxpeyer; the
toxes are the cssentiol sourc Ior the officiul's sslarirs and the city's
roperty. Each citizen is  voter; regul:r lrlloting mainteins govern-
mont. Each citizen is . memb,r of the sover ignty of the city; e ch is
s woll c momber of the notionel povernmout.
Good city gov rnment dnends grent servic of ench of its citizens.
Also, good city sovorrmont chould b of ns gre sarvice to sch of
its citizens.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure
READQUARTERS EIGHTH UNITED STATES
Civil Affairs Section
Legel end Government Division
THE LOCAL AUTONOMY PROGRAM FOR THE CITIES OF JAPAN
Peper No. 2.
The Office of Mayer
The Office of Mayor in Jepan is the chief executive division of
city government. In the Office rests the authority for directing and
supervising the cperation of civic affairs. The man or woman, there-
fore, who becomes the meyor, is the controller of the execution of city
policy for the people. The men or woman who is elected mayor does not
FW 894.00
own this important office, nor does either own the municipal government.
By virtue of being elected to the Office, by the texpeyers and voters,
all the nayor can be is the chief edministretor in city government for
the given period of tine.
Moreover, end of great irportance to good government locally, is
the fact that the incuribent in the.Office is the person responaible un-
der the Chihojichiho, Article l47, for coordination of the city govern-
nent. The provisions of the sane Article can never be interpreted as en
idle legal wish. The neyor nust be a creative, responsible civic leader
to achieve workable coordination and to give to the citizenry a service-
able administration.
Developnent in the Office of Mavor
In different leading countries of the world there are varied forms
of municipal governnent. The issues of (1) the precise position in which
the executive authority is vested, (2) by waat peruon or persons it is
executed, end (3) through what administretive machinery it is channeled,
are of the utnost importance. In most countries in continental Europe
the central autocrats thenselves mede the decision for the nunicipalities
for each of the thrce issues just given. Certain adventages natured by
having the central actcurats rake the significent decision. Certainly
some undenocretic end bad results developed also. In the British Empire
and the United States, through long historic processes, the votors and

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.96)
taxpayers have made the decisions on the three issues. Not all that
has cone forwerd in these countries has been expedient or successful.
However, what has occurred and what has developed has been, for the
nost part, the businoss of the people thenselves; whet has developed
has been denogratis and what has netured has been known by nost of the
citizenry nost of the tine. Representative government has to heve such
foundations.
1. The Gernan Mnicipalities. In the Rhineland provinces the exec-
utive authority has traditionally adninistcred the nunicipality's affairs
end ex cuted whatever natters have been charged to the municipality by
the central government. The executive who filled the office was the Bur-
gerneister. The Prussien statutes provided that the Burgerneister would
be the chairman of the unicaneral municipel council end that he would
have full voting rights. By legal position, he was the executive author-
ity. By legal positicn. and because of his reletionship with the council,
he could easily dominate in the legisletive brench of governnent. The
i
legislative body under the Purgerneister has the authority in policy mak-
ing for (1) utilization of the nunicipality's property, (2) enactment of
by-laws, and (7) taxation nd the budget. The council's power in each of
these has alweys been linited. These limitations were always in favor of
the Burgerneister who wes en eppointed officiel. His tern of office in
sone Prussien towms vas as much as for a 12-yeer period end he was always
eligible for reeppointments.
For the provinces which were not in the Rhineland, the Magistrat sys-
existed in which the executive authority is in the Magistret or a body con-
posed of unpaid and paid menbers with a Burgerneister and a vice-Burger-
meister. The paid nembers were the nunicipal departnental heads, as for
exemple, educetion, chosen for technical and administrative qualifications.
2
Their appointnent had to be approved in nany cases by sone higher euthority.
All menbers of the Magistret were elected by the municipal council for a
12-year tern. The councillor's tern wes but for a period of 4 yeers. By
atatute the Magistrat with the Burgormeister as its chief was more than
executive in nature. It resolved matters also and its consent or ratifica-

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.97)
tion was necessary to make the council's actions valid end
tive. Hence, the council in Germany was always in a subordinate po
tion and, therefore, quite the opposite fron those in the Imglish or
American governments.
The Burgermeister in both of the Prussian systens could and did
A
nove fron plece to plece. A good racord in one city brought hin invi-
tations to be appointed elsewhere. He could give and did give good
technical solutions to nunicipel affairs and thereby gain promotion and
reputation. Ho also forced en autocratic solution to nany problems which
the Gernan people beceme used to taking. The two principles: (1) ef-
ficiency in executing city effeirs and (2) administrative nicety in solv-
ing municipel matters, however, do not meke good governnent conplete by
the results of their epplicetion plone. More is needed. Much nore is
nseded. The principle thet the people thenselves nust participate di-
rectly in the solution of their affairs must be present, too. The con-
tinental systen with ell its efficiency end centrelism produced en overly-
guided, reginented people.
Justified criticis: con be nede that the Megistret systen as com-
pared to the Burgormeister systen of municipel dninistration in Prussie
is unwieldy and complex and that the officiels of it cennot secure the
regularly needed fluid coordinatior for city affeirs. The Burgerneister
systen is nuch simpler and nore direct for action.
Fron the point of view, hovever, of representative governnent and
of people taking part in their own affeirs, both systens are faulty. Also,
the municipalities are forced into a position of dependence upon higher
levels, even to the central government, for many of their powers end opera-
tions.
2.
The Enalich Seten
It hes long been settled that ell local
public bodies in Eng me ild be governed by neons of councils whose
members ere elected di. vuiy by the citisenry
I euthority is vested
in the council end th yra us eets of Parlirment state how the author-
ity of these councils n be caninistered. Each of these local govern-
3

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.98)
ment councils has en elected presiding officert in
ough and the County Borough, the officer is called the
Parish, Urben District, Rural District and County, he is catled
chairnen. In 17 cities the officer is called the Lord Mayor as ih
don, Manchester, Leeds, Norwich or York. All decisions of the local
governnents are made by the councils and the acts of Parliament state
this to be so. The administration of the coancil's authority is car
ried out by neans of either statutory required or pernissive committees
which work with the verious departmental chiefs.
The mayor, cheirnen or lord mayor (as the local government's title
prescribes) hes no nore power or no more authority than any other men-
ber of the council, except that necessary to conduct the procedure of
the councii's sessions. This legal fect and long custon are important.
They nean that the nayor hes no seperate executive authority as is the
case of both the Burgerneister and Megistrat systens. The various con-
nittees, required or pernissive, not only legislete and resolve natters,
but also execute end generally supervise the workedey administration.
These connittees, of course, deal with the technical heads of the depart-
ments rather then with the officials of the departnents and their various
activities are in prectice coordineted by the town clerk who is tho chief
permanent official of the municipelity. He, then, subject to the policy
direction of the council, is the "chief executive." The mayor. in Eng-
lish governnent is a presiding official and one who represents the city
governnent on important social or official occasions.
The council-conmittee method of exercising executive authority in
the English locel governnents can be criticized on the grounds of awk-
werd coordination, but even so, it is denocratic end autonomous. The
councillors and the eldernen ere elected locally end the nayor is ele
ted locelly and the committee chairnen are elected locelly by najority
party representatives. The town clerk is appointed locally. Nearly all
the problems and affairs, born locally, therefore, are settled locally.
Indeed, the two continuous questions present in the continental systen,
4

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.97)
"Can we do thist" "Dare we do this by ourselvemt are not
the Inglish systen. The English systen in locel governnenth
tact a citizenry who, with their political and lagal boliefe, have
tered denocratie tradition and life.
3. In the United States. The Office of Mayor of the city govern
ments in the United Stetes of America is charged by statutes with the
-1
executive authority prinerily for the adninistration and enforcement of
laws and municipel ordinences. By stetute, the Office is separated
functionally fron the legislative and judicial brenches of the city's
governnent. In the approximete 200 cities of over 50,000 population, in
particularly the approxinate 100 cities of over 100,000 population, end
nost certeinly in the approximate 45 cities of 200,000 population, the
elections generally follow the recognized netionel political perty lines.
This fect results fron the existence in these cities of the national po
litical parties' orgenizations and machinery which are utilized to the
fullest extent on a nunicipal level for locel issues. In the epproxi-
nate 5,000 conmunities under 50,000 populetion but above 2,000 popula-
tion, even though the elections generelly follow an independent or non-
partisan pattern, there is an influence exert.d in the cenpaigns by nem-
bers of the recognized national parties. Little of the great organiza-
tions exist in these cities; only the small canpaign offices are usually
there. In these smell conmunities, noreover, the elections involve al-
nost entirely purely locnl issuss which heve little or no relation to
the platforn of the national parties. Moreover, cendidates as individuals
are nore easily known to the voters in these locel elections and the party
orgenizetion is not needed to any degree es it is in the lerger cities.
The nayor, in either the large or snall city, runs on a platform
essentially of city issues end his election, therefore, reflects the wish-
es end will of the r joity of the citizens cf thet conmunity.
The legel posili of the neyor in the cities of Jepan is quite sini-
lar to that in nost iiles in the United States. Some stetements about
American mayors and their offizes will be inforrative.
5

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
American mayors are everywhere elected by direct vote of the po
ple. The Anericen voters are brought into the mayorst elections as well
as the councillors' elections. This is in sharp contrest with all Euro-
pean practices. In Englend the mayor. as has been shown, is chosen by
the single and powerful council in each looal governnent. In France the
nayor is likewise selected by the municipal council. In Germany, until
1935, when local self-government was virtually abolished by the Netional
Socialists, the Burgerneister. as has been shown, was also chosen by the
traditional German plen of councilnanic eppointnent. Moreover, in Aner-
ica nany nore city officials ere elected directly by the people than in
any other denocretic country.
The mayor's legal qualifications vary widely from city to city. Al-
ways he must be a qualified voter, and occasionally he must be a texpayer.
Sometines a ninimun age linit is fixed end this is most connonly at 25
or 30 years of ege. Often there is a nininun residence requirenent of
fron 3 to 5 years. The factors upon which the mayor is to be elected are
not just the qualificetions written into the cherters of laws. Other
requisites are of prectical end political inportence. Usually a man to
be elected nayor of e good-sized city must be an important and well known
person in the doninent political party. He nust heve denonstreted tine
and again his willingness to serve the orgenization. Above all. he nust.
be acceptable to e wide variety of interests, especially civic organize-
tions and clubs. He nust be "all things to all nen." In his career he
must have avoided naking powerful politicel enenies. Occasionally, even
in sone of the largest of Americen cities. an independent candidate with
no political connections is elected by the people when they ere in revolt
ageinst the abuses of bosses and a machine-controlled nayor. An indepen-
dent mayor without the becking of the city council end administretive
5
heads cannot bring about pronised reforns unless he has great popular sup-
port and strong powers in his office, including the power to remove admin-
istrative heads and other officials.
The tern of office in the large American cities of 100, 000 or up-
6

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.98)
wards is more favorable to the 4-yeer period than the Baye
election is the rule in Englend although the nayor or lord mpyot
not chief executives. The 2-year term is still retained in mome of
the sneller American cities, but the trend in America has been towards
longer terns. The longer tern is nuch nore prectical for one who is
called upon to perfor chief executive functions. It gives the nayor
time to attend to the business of governnent without having to keep
constant vigil on the politicel beroneter.
In sone cities in Anerica the mnyor cen be recelled from office
by the electors. In a great nunber of cities he cennnt be recalled.
He is, of course, alvays subject to crininal ection by the state. A
few Anericen stetes heve followed the French procedure of letting the
Mayor be renoved by the central authorities. In the City of New York,
for exarmple, the governor can renove for cause. He nust prefer charges
end hold e public heering. but his dacision is then finel. This is ad-
ninistrative action and the courts do not step in. The states using
this systen usually provide by ststute the specific grounds for removel.
The governors have used this pover very sparingly thus fer in city his-
tory.
The meyor in Arerics is the chief execative cherged prinarily with
the enforcenent of laws. However, in exercising his powers es the chief
adninistretor of the city, he enters the legisletive end judicial fields.
He, of course, does not enter these fields very far but he nevertheless
enters. A short surmery illustretes these well kmown acts of the mayor.
He enters the legislative field when he nekes his reconnendetions to the
council to pess ordinences and regul=tions for the inprovenent and ad-
vancenent of the city's affeirs, end especially its finences. There is
nothing but public cnirion to prevent the council fron ignoring his rec-
ormendations if the ntte:s so desire. However nayor with a good
progran cen usucliy poblic opinion to sic e point thet dallying
councilnen will support his pens. f the rayor hes the support of
the newspepers, radio. end civic minded groups, his plens and recommen-
7

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.96)
dations will doubtless meture. A courageous nayor with a wital mes
sage cen becone the city's leeder by taking his ideas direotly to the
people in the fight for good government. The nayer also enters the
legislative field when hs exercises bis pover to vato proposed ordi-
nances or by-lavs, this pover is everywhere iven to nmayors. After. a
measure is passed by the coupci?, it goes to the meyor f approval or
rejection. Shoud he di aoprove the bill, he returns it to the council
with his objections. Unless it is repessei there by nore than a majority
vote, the bill fails to becone iaw. Usually a two-thirds vote is the
required perc age to overrile the nayor's veto, but in some instances
cities have e three-rifths vcte or  three-fourths vote. The judicial
powers of the nayor in the Tinited States are no longer of any great prac-
tical inportance becruse he no longer serves concurrently as justice of
the peece or locel megistrate in nost ereas. The nayor's power to pass
on appeals or complaints and to levy adninistrative fines are instances
of the exercise of judicial powers, although not in the technicel sense
of a judge doing so.
C
As the chief executive and city adninistrator. the mayor is charged
with the conduct of the city's day-to-d affairs. The nayor supervises
the work of adninistration. He has the duties of (1) moulding the citi-
zen's wishes into good city policy, (2) coordineting the city's services,
end (3) reising the standerds of city efficiency. Most all of the pro
fessional men end wonen in the nunicipal services ere at least nominally
responsible to hin. The neyor with all these officials is held responsi-
ble for the manner in which the policies of the city council will be car-
ried out. Obviously, such duties are only noninel unless the mayor has
the authority to appoint and renove departnent heads. In ell fairness.
no nen cen be held responsible for the actions of officers o of those
not under or beyond his control. Nearly everywhere, therefore, he is
given rether large powers of appointnent. In neny cities the eppoint
nents must be approved by the council. Yet in other cities the charters
and some by-lews have given the nayor complete power of appointment of
8

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.95)
depertnent chiefs end other executive officials. The great mejority
of cities, however, now heve some forn of civil service or personnel
systen based on the nerit systen. Hence, the nayor does not act or ep
point merely at will. Quite as importent as the power to appoint is
the power to relove. Nearly everywhere the nayor has authority to dis-
niss all officirls eppcinted by hin without tho consent of the council
being neccssary. In sone cities concurrence of the council is required.
7
In New York City, which follows the strong executive plan of governnent,
the mayor can rerove at nis pleasure. In Chicego the nayor nust submit
his reasons to the concil, which if it overrides his actions must do
so by a two-thirds vote. In most cities civing tne nayor a free hand
in appointrent end dis iseal, en eleborete method through the nerit sys-
ten or by-laws goverring the disnissel is set up. These methods usually
provide for (1) the filing of a statenent of written reasons. (2) an op-
portunity for the person to be discharged to enswer end (3) the holding
of a hearing. The reyor's decision in the end is then final. The pur-
pose of ell these required prccecdings is to prevent bureaucratic or
hasty, arbitrary action in dismiss-ls. However, these proceedings can
result in allowing neny incompstent people to rerain in office as mayors
are often reluctant to get involved in a public hearing for these cen
produce huiliating recrinminctions.
The mayor's responsibility for the onforcenent of city ordinances
and state laws is of greatest inporience in mesic It forces as well
as enables hin to daternine when ehe in whe t neer er the lows will be en-
forced. Obedience by the citizenry to sli lovs choild be conpelled at
ell tines. No laws of eny govermont sho-ld be tietiont every lew
should effect sone gainful end. As  metuer cf feet, however, no gov-
ernment--city.state or nation -cen rpprchend cli the violetors of its
statutes completely et the sare tine twenty-foar hours e dey. To do so
the city government would heve to mare every cit'zen an officiel or a
policenan. The mumber of laws that the everage oity is to enforce is
staggering end hence, beceise of sinple leck of manpower, the laws can-
9

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
not all be enforced effectively at the sane time. Son
ment must reside the official whose duty it is to see whish le
being violated the most and how seriously. Obviously some person
be given the discretion to decide which lews, bebause of their being
violeted and the seriousness of the violetions; shall be more vigorously
enforced than others. This tesk usually fells upon the mayor. his depu
ty or his subordinate, the chief of police. In generai, the mayor is
the proper nan for he alweys holds the spotlight of the cityis politi
cal stage.
During the last helf century nore experimentetion in the structure
and forn of city governnent hes occurred in the United Stetes than in
other countries.
In the early deys in the United States the nayor was merely the
presiding officer of the council, possessing little independent author-
ity because his position wes a cerry-over fron Englend. However, his
office soon became separate from the council end by the close of the
nineteenth century, the neyor had becone a very influential person. As
the head of the city governnent, he wes elected by all the people and he
could claim to represent all the people of the city. Unlike the menbers
of the essembly his viewpoint and his interests, beceuse of his elector-
ate, extended beyond the boundaries of e single ward electorate or dis-
trict electorate. Many battles developed between strong nayors end the
councils or assemblies which were bent on furthering nerrow ward poli-
tics or selfish interests as against the interest of the city as a
whole. In nany cases competent neyors were cut off in their efforts to
carry out a good city program by selfish councilnen and insincere de-
partment heads. In many cases the opposite was true in that it was the
meyor who was corrupt and interested only in furthering his political
fortune as against the voters' and taxpeyers' interests. As a result,
different groups of reforners developed to meet the situation. The
first group advoceted strengthening the office of mayor by a statute -
to give the mayor complete control over administration and to have the
10

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
electorate hold hin personelly responsible at the poll
by this mathod to attrect men of outstanding ability to the orri
would oppose the forces of corruption and more truly represent
opinion of the public. In numerous locelities laws were passed giving
mayors more authority over budgets, local taxes, end administration
Even with the election of a good mayor many instances of failure o
curred because the mayor was powerless to overcome hostile subordinates
and a boss controlled council.
The second group of reformers developed in Gelveston, Texas, in
1900, advocating a commission type of government. Under this system
the mayor was reduced to a position of minor importance. He became
merely the chairman of a board of five members, possessed only the seme
voting power as his fellow commissioners. he was charged, as was each
commissioner, with the administration of but one of the city's depart-
ments. This commission system proved populer end by 194l. 400 cities
and towns followed the plan. Shortly after, another group, the com
mission group, launched its idee, developed the council-manager plan of
city government in Dayton, Ohio vhich took administretive control com-
pletely out of the hands of the mayor and made him little more then a
presiding officer with certein social duties. The city manager is a
businessman and the fow elected councillors who eppoint him set the
policy for him to carry out with his menegerirl cbility. He is a mod-
ern version of the English tom clerk without the relative security of
tenure which the latter enjoys by virtue of the personnel system under
which he is employed.
The commission plan and the council-meneger plen have great advan-
tages and as types of government they exist in meny municipelities. The
lerge majority of Americen cities, however. have kept the strong mayor
type of city governnent. As egainst the denger thet the neyor will be-
come an eutocrat end unresponsive to the public will, actuel experience
has shown cleerly that diffused edministration and scattered authorities
are not es effective or ef icieat as vhe responsibility is lodged in the
11

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
office of mayor. When executive end administrative responsibility are
acettered in too many offices, boards end commissions, responsibility
is difficult to coordinate and is really non-existent on many occasions.
Under the strong mayor plan, the executive authority is soncentrated,
and not diffused. A responsible executive is placed in charge of admin-
istrative matters. Government is made intelligible to the average citi-
zen. pportunities for shifting the blame in bobbled matters are vir-
tually eliminated. The council is given just one task, that of policy
determination or legislation end is not permitted to interfere with the
technical details of administration. Concentration, simplicity and con-
fidence, principles of good government, are all embodied in the strong
mayor plan.
In the United Stetes during the past generation the federal, state
end municipel governments heve increesed vastly not only the orthodox
activities, but also new end more timely activities. This tremendous
increese in governmental ection is in keeping with greetly altered
social conditions. Indeed government cannot "stay put"; it must meet.
by edequate laws and structure, new situations. Good government must be
a positivo government.
In ecent years, therefore, the progressive mayors, with great zest
and chellenge, heve accepted their new role of relations with both the
city's imte stete government and its more distant federal government.
The intorlocking relationship between the verious state edministra-
tive depertments on the one hand, as for exemple (1) the state tax com-
mission, (2) the utility commission, (3) health commission, (4) the
liquor commission, and (5) the seles tex division, end the city govern-
ment on the other hand, create a new field of responsibility for the
mayor in Americen cities. The locel tax board of review sets real es-
tate values in the city subject in some states to the review of the
state tex commission which ceuse negotietions to be carried on in this
field. The railroad compeny's end nining compeny's values are set by
the state tex commission but nevertheless, the mayor can demend end
certeinly should cell for ? heering on these veluetions to protect the
12

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.98)
interests of the city. Litigation in this field is frequent end
meyor must carry the responsibility of deciding when the legal dmpart
ment and city attorney are to take action. The stete utility commission
sets the retes on electricity, freight, pessenger snd telephene service.
When a mayor thinks that these rates are unfair for his locality, does.
he sit idly by and bow to the will of the state egency? Certainly an
Anericen nayor does not. He files a petition at once with the utility
comnission for a review of the retes. If dissatisfied there, he then
carries that decision to the courts. Constant negotietions with the
state board of health ere reguired to secure epprovel of water sources
or sewage disposal plants or lands or streems into which sewage can be
piped without injury to other comrunities. In some stetes the state
fire narshal's office hes the authority to condenn buildings and oil
storage tenks anywhere in the state and this gives rise to constant con-
flicts between the interests of the city end the rulings of the state
board which require the attention of the nayor to iron out. In some
states liquor licenses for taverns, hotels and bers are usually con-
trolled by a state board leaving onl secondary control in the hands of
the local assombly. Nunerous conflicts arise between the city and the
state board's rulings. Here pgain the mayor must teke the initiative
in bringing action to correct rulings which affect the financial income
of the city or the velue of reel estate within the city. No other coun-
try in the world hes enywhere near the nunber of eutonobiles as does
Arerica; most of the 48 states have notor vehicle registrations approx-
imating 500,000 or more. Passenger autonobile end truck traffic are a
trenendous element in Anerican city life. At specific times therefore,
the meyor nust be on guard constently against the activities of the
state highwey cormission or he will find the new state highvays con-
pletely by-passing his city with e great loss in tourist business. At
other times the nayor must constently prod the highwey connission to
build new stete highways or improve oxisting highweys, trestles and
13

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
bridges leading into his city. The progressive mayor is alwaye on
alert in these matters dealing with state agencies to insure that his
city receives the attention and consideretion which it deserves in
these matters from the state.
In these same changing past thirty years the relationships between
the city and the federal governnent have been altered sharply because.
of the extension of more services directly to municipalities.
The federal government has noved nuch closer to the cities regard-
less of their size. But of course, the mayors of the cities with greater
resources have been able to achieve more for their localities than the
mayors of cities of lesser advantages.
During those trying years meyors with ability and initiative dis-
tinguished themselves. The Mayor of the City of Detroit proposed a
bond issue to provide funds to grant direct relief to the unemployed.
This financial move was considered radical at the time but he carried
the fight to the public and won. The precedent was later followed on a
nation-wide basis. The mayor was elected Governor of the State of Michi-
gan and was then appointed to the Suprene Court of the United States.
Many other mayors took courageous action to meet the problems of their
people. In most cases there was no precedent in city administration
loceily for their plans let alone getting instructions from any branch
of governnent above. These mayors had a problen to meet then and there
and they, with their locel group. set about meeting it.
Many lerge scale projects in the cities were completed against the
active opposition of real estete lobbyists and political enemies who
criticized these active mayors. During the war years the real velue of
some of these projects to the conmunity and the citizens becone apparent.
Many mayors, on the other hand, beceuse they were not in sympathy with
the national program, refused outright to engage in siniler projects.
This resulted in these benefits being lost to the people of their com-
munities.
The federal government by-laws nede availeble to the cities such
14

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
natters as programs on (1) unemployment relief, (3) food
direct loans, (4) roed, street, public building construction, and 
light plant and utility distributionel eystems. These progrems ware
launched in the cities with the eid of federal funds. These were goy
ernnent grants-in-aid, eimed at relieving unemployment. They wsre not
hendouts or simple subsidies. Progrems of another character were for.
the elininetion of city slums and for the renovation and modernization
of hones. These were financed also in part through grants-in-aid end
by the peyment of mortgages being guerenteed by the federal government.
This new phase of nunicipel administration in America hes completely
chenged and enhanced the position of every mayor and the opportunities
for an active and progressive mayor to contribute inmensely to the
welfare of his community.
The Anericen mayor in his dealings with the state and federal gov-
ernment is in quite a different position fron the nayor in Japan in his
dealings with the prefecture end centrel governnent. The besic dif-
ference lies in the constitutionel provision on separetion of federel
end state powers in the United States. The provisions of the Chihojichiho
dealing with the relationship of the prefectures to the central govern-
ment can be corpared loosely with constitutional provisions of the Uni-
ted States, dealing with the relationship of the state government to the
foderal government. Moreover, the provisions in the Chihojichiho in
sone respects cen be compered to provisions in the state constitutions
in relation to powers and funetions provided for local governnents.
One of the sharpest differences in the status of the nayor in Jepen is
in finance. This difference arises out of laws rather than constitu-
tions. The systen of taxation end the prograns for the fixed grants-in-
aid of the federal laws in the United States ere completely different
from those in Japen.
Cities in Americe are financed principelly fron real estete and
personal property texes, licenses fron business establishments operating
within the city, profit from utilities, returns fron gasoline tax and
15

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.98)
and automobile license fees collected by the state. The perown
of return to the cities of the taxes and fees collected by the state
are all written into 1aw as to how much they ere and how they will be
paid. They are not left to the discretion of some state official or
ageney to figure out when he has a stomech ache or after his wife has
scolded him. Nor are the percentages left to be bargained about in
each case. Further the rights and duties of a city are enumerated in
the state statutes and are also found in court decisions. When a set-
tlement is not reached between the city end the state agency, the meyor
on behalf of the city goes into court then and there to fight the issue
through to a final decision.
Each city has its own city attorney and legal department'for all
city litigation. Generally speaking, however, the state officials co-
operate with the city officials as far as they believe that the law
allows then to do so. Both city and state officials work together as
partners in a common enterprise of public service. The idea, neverthe-
less, that the cities must at all times take orders from the state of-
二
ficials without their being questioned does not exist in the United
States. In the mevcris buviness relations with the federal government
in America. ho liie vise hes a less difficult problen than the mayor in
Japan has in his daling w'th the Japanese central government. In the
matter of grants-i cid for exauple on public building construction, the
American federal governnent offers a fixed percentege of the cost of the
project. This percentage to be granted and method of payment are stipu-
lated in the national law passed by Congress setting up the fund to be
used whether in building a municipal light plent or some sewage treat-
ment plant. A city néed only file an applicetion with the federal author-
ity showing the need for the project and evidence that the project is
sound from an engineering and financial point of view. If the city's
project is approved. the amount of the federal grant is certain; it is
not subject to the whim of the officials of treasury department or some
other department supposedly concerned. Again the nayor in dealing with
16

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
the federal authorities approaches the problem as a parsne
ment. If the federal officials are arbitrary or cappieieue 
handling of the applicetion, the meyor can easily take the matter te
court to determine the rights of the city under the terms of the fede
ral statute involved. In the American system the courts are used regu.
larly; they are not idle. There is no hat-in-hend manner or awe stric
ken, fearful approach on the part of the mayor or other officiale of aities
when they confer with the federal government. There is absolutely no
need to do so. This situation exists because the law is the law and of-
ficials are bound in duty to execute the law as written, and when they
hesitate, the courts upeek end the people know.
The Office of Mayor in Jaran
The Office of Mayor in Japan resembles that in the United States
much more than that in other countries. As contrasted with the varying
powers of the mayor in different cities of the United States, however,
in Japan the legel powers and functions of all meyors ere precisely the
samo rcgardless of the city or its size. The position of the mayor in
Jepan can be understood and appreciated by a summary anelysis.
1. The Mavoris Fligibility.
The provisions of the Chirojichiho
foilow the British practice in that Article 19 allows any Japanese citi-
zen who is 25 years of age and eligible to vote to be a. cendidate for
mayor. To meet the legal quelifications for mayor, unlike those for
an assemblyman, the candidete need not be a risident of the city in
which he is a candidate. After election the mayor is not concurrontly
to hold the office of assemblymen nor hold a paid position in the lccal
body.
These two restrictions are commonly found in most Western count-
ries. Neither is the mayor to have. any interest in any contract, di-
rectly or indirectly, with the city or any of its agencies. This provi-
s en is also commonly fcund in the United States.
In disputes involving the eligibility of a mayor to hold his office,
the mayor is entitlad to remain in office until efter the final appeal
in the proceedings is dccided by the courts as prcvided in rticle l44.
17

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
The Diet also provided egainst hasty or premature ramis
quiring in Article 145 that the mayor must, give twenty dayal motigs
his proposed resignation unless the assembly accepts the resignation
prior to the twenty day period. The statement in the following Paper
No. 3, "The Assembly in Japan," that hasty resignations of assemblymen
are contrary to the public's good, the intont of the law, costly to
the taxpayers and thoroughly undemocratic is equally true for mayors.
A mayor once elected should certainly not submit to minority pressure
groups. He is elected to represent all the citizens and to protect
the interests of the city es a whole. Article 15, The Constitution.
The speciel pleedings of minorities do not represent the will of the
whole public at all. A mayor should stick to his post. I the issues
are worth it, he should, through the courts. fight them. The courts in
handling cases involving public officials should bear in mind that pub-
lic officials are just es much entitled to all legal righte as are any
private citizens.
2. The Mayor's powers. The legal powers of the meyor for the
normel administration of the city ere given in the Chihojichiho. Al-
though this Lew is the organic act for sueh metters, other laws end cabi-
net orders are controlling for narticuler functions.
The mayor under the Chihojichiho is given the power to "coordinete"
and "administer" the affairs of the city in local matters and also such
national or prefectural policies as are delegeted to him by laws, ordi-
nances or by-laws. This grant of authority places the mayor in Japan
in the class of cities which heve the strong meyor type of administra
tion in Americe. Specifically. the meyor is named to perform the enume-
rated functions in Article 149:
(1) To execute any of such matters as shall be defrayed from
the expenditure of the ordinary public body:
(2)
To present a bill in respect of any of such matters as
are required to be decided by the assembly of the city:
(3)
To manege property and establishments;
(4)
To make order for receipt end peyment and to supevise
accounte.
18

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
(5) To teke custody of instrunents end official paperet
(6)
To levy and collect rerts, fees, local texes, allotted
charges, entience fees or stetutory Iabor end actual
crticles in accordonce with lews,, cebinet orders or
resolutions of the cssembly of the locel publie body;
(7)
Except those vhich cre prescribed in the preceding itens.
to execute the affairs of the locel body:
(8)
Any other matter which falls within his powers under
lews or ordinances.
In addition to the povers enunereted above the nayor is given spec-
ial euthority in Article l60 to teke over lands and personal property
temporarily in the event of en emergency and later to pay the owner a
fair compensation for the same. .In the same Article the nayor is given
authority to require the citizens to engege in the defense of the city
in case of emergencies or calamities. This provision is similar to the
right of e meyor or cheriff in Wostern countries to denend the services of
citizens to join e posse in an innediste or intense search of criminals
or other disorders effecting the public peace.
3. The Meror's Staff, The Mayor is entitled to an inmediate of-
ficial femily which is compesed usually of his executive assistents and
the sccrcterist.
The Chihojichiho provides for the appointrient of one assistent
mayor or two essistent mayors in the event o. by-law is enacted by the
assenbly authorizing two. When delegeted to ect, the assistent nayor can
be clothed temporerily with the nayor's powers. However, when the Office
of Mayor is vacent, the essistant does nct succeed to it; he does not
beccne nayor except by election. In many Anericen cities, no office of
vice- or deputy-mayor exists because when the Office of Mayor is vacent
the president of the city council acts as nayor until enother is elected.
When he does so act, he is called the "nayor proten", (pre tennore). Sone
cities like New York have the vice- or deputy-nayor's office as one to
furnish continuity for the city:s adninistration, even though the vice-
mayor does not ever ect s nayor. Other cities, for exemple, Cincinnatti.
Ohio, designete a council merber es the vice-mayor. He must be a men-
ber of the council end can act only in the absence of the nayor. He
19

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
receives no extra compensation for his work or as a result of holdt
the title. These positions of vice-mayor ere not e full time callins
as here in Japen.  Compprable in the United Stetes to the position of
vice-meyor in Jepen however, ere the verious positions of the meyor's
secreteries provided for in many cities. These are full time positions
end the secretarics represent the mayor on occesions, although they cen
ect in an informal carecity only.
The mayor assistant mayor in Japen can act as city accountant or
treasurer when the asseibly so provides through a by-law. The mayors
in the United States cannot so act. However, if the mayor or assistant
mayor does not act in this capacity, he mey not then appoint a close
relative to either of the positions or to an inspection commissioner-
ship.
4. The Mayor and the Administration. The city's personnel end
structural organization of the city's offices sre supervised and con-
trolled by the mayor. By the provisions of Article 172, the mayor in
Japan is given eneral pcwer to appoint end remove officiels of his ad-
ministration. Moreover: the meyor is given generel power to "annul or
suspend" the disposition of eny edministrative office under his super-
vision in Article 15l. This gives the meyor en effective check on the
actions of subordinete officials which mayors in meny other countries do
not possess. It certeinly strengthens his position and responsibility.
The mayor in Article 154 is given the specific authority to "direct end
supervise" the officiels under him. These powers are essential, for
eny mayor is going to be held responsible personally et the election
polls for a good administretion. Moreover, when a mayor has such con-
trol, he should not be allowed by the public to shift or try to escape
responsibility or to excuse himself when the adninistration felters or
his officials fail to act.
The meyor cen create by meens of a by-law the necessary divisions
or sections for carrying on the city governnent--that is, "for the pur-
pose of allotting the affeirs which fall vithin his powers." Thus,
20

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
through by-lews the ka and kekeri are esteblished for the
in general affeirs, engineering, welfare, economics, health,
or agriculture. This prerogetive, too, is of e marked adventage to
the mayor in Japen.
Depending entirely on the erea of the city, the density. of popu-
lation as to either business districts or residential, and avsilable
transportetion, the city's administretive offices will not be in one
central compound. Branch offices of the city government mey be vital
to good sorvice or administretion, end when this fact is in evidence,
they should be installed. However, the city:s branch offices need not
be established next door to every shop! They should be few, carefully
located and the activities executed therein carefully determined. In
Article l55 the neyor is given this power to establish branch office
through by-le's. In the same Article, provision is mede that after
the city's designation by e crbinet order, the meyor agein by meens of
a by-law cen create werds end ward offices.
Once the structure of offices is constructed and once the personnel
is selected, the meyor cen execute the meny duties assigned to him. The
meyor's selcction of persornel ought to be in torms of the merit system,
especially for technical offices.
5. The Mryor and the Assembly. Although the neyor hes come into
office by populer vote on his policy or pletform, he nust get the as-
sembly to cooperate, The asserbly hes to put his policy into by-laws
before it cen be a lcgal reality for his administration to execute. If
the meyor is creative and hes & good program, he can doubtless secure
the proper support from the assemblynen. Otherwise he may not be able
to obtain this; in fect, he may actually get real opposition instead.
The assembly itself ney have devoloped some city policy also, or doubt-
less is launching e program of its om, or it may desire substantial
changes in the meyor's bills and budget. Every effort should be made
to solve differences of opinion, end even where egreement is not reached,
these should be brought forwerd in the asserbly for a majority vote as
21

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
provided in Article 116.
When the mayor end assenbly cannot agree, the procedures of veto
end non-confidence: es given in Articles 176 to 180, apply. The meyor
nust exercise his veto power within 10 days efter passage of the by-law
or resolution by the assenbly. He must state his reasons in writing and
ettach ther: to tl.e vetoed mensure. Where the meesure is repassed by a
two-thirds vote of ihe essenbly, it becones lew end the mayor must carry
it out. When the nayor considers a meesure ultra vires or that it con-
travenes the Constitition or other lews or orders, he can veto if giving
his reasons therefcr. Where this issue of legality is reised and the
assembly repasses the measure over the veto, the mayor cen bring an.
ection egainst the assenbly in the courts to test out the legel question
involved. He also nay veto measures relating to revenue or expenditure
when he considers the proposals impossible to execute. Where the meesure
is repassed over his veto, the mayor is euthorized to appropriate and
expend the funds notvithstending the veto. When this is done the items
must relete to, "expenses to be borne by laws or ordinances duly euth-
orized by laws, expenses ordered ex cethedra by the compatent edninis-
trative offices or any other expenses falling under the duties of the
ordinary local public body." The mayor nay consider the action of the
essenbly es e vote of non-confidence if it repesses e bill over his
veto which provides for, "expenses necessary for emergency or recovery
facilities caused by emergency disasters, or expenses necessary for the
prevention of epidemics." Where the assenbly pesses a resolution of non-
confidence or where the neyor elects to deem a repessege of a measure,
as stated above, to anount to a vote of non-confiden e, then he has to
dissolve the assembly within ten deys.
If he fails to dissolve the as-
sembly, he then is required to resign.
Where the rayor elects to dis-
solve the esserbly end the now essenbly efter convening repasses the
meesure in controversy, then the mayor must resign as provided in Artiele
178. As a warning it should be kept in mind the procedure of non-confi-
dence and dissolution of the assembly is costly end should be exercised
22

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
as a lest resort.
6. The Mayor and the Governor. The mayor in Japan doe
stand in the seme relation to the governor or prefecture as doee n
American mayor to the state governnent. The prefectural government
have never been esteblished to render the type and kind of services.
perticulerly finencial, to the cities within the prefectural bounda-
ries as have esch of the state governments in the United States. The
ossential feetures of the eerly regulations of the Meili Isshin end 
of the later Chihokenkensei, Shisei, Gunsei end Chosonsei were draft-
ed in such a manner as to place securely in the Naimusho and the cen-
tral government all the powers of control except those such as the
bureeucrats felt would be the least convenient for them to exercise.
The Fukenchiji. when he desired. telked to the Shicho end Guncho. The
Chocho and Soncho had to gaze in wonder at hin through the Guncho. The
Fukenchiji as a chc munin official of the Naimsho told the Shicho what
was demanded and what must be done. Prince Ito and Prince Yamagata with
their inmediatc conferees adopted and adapted for the control of cities.
towns and villeges the Prussian system of burcaucratic and technical
edministration. From the people's status end point of view in Prussia,
bed r sults developed. From the people's and mayor's point of view,
bad results netured in Jepen also.
Under the Chiho fichino the lcgnl relations of the mayor with the
governor have been chenged.
The amount of change in the practicel day
by-day reletions will depend entirely upon the originality and creative-
ness of the individual nayors and the civic-nindedness of the citizens
of each city.
As the prefecturel assemblies recognize situetions and assume their
rusponsibilities by the proper and prompt pessage of by-laws for the aid
of the prefecture as a whole, the city governnent relationehips will be-
come more and nore beneficiel.
7. The Mayor end the Central Government. The relationship of the
mayors of Jepan with the contral government in mokyn for nearly all city
23

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
matters is indirect. On some affairs the meyor has a direct intereste
Every meyor should certainly kmow the members of the Committee for Lo-
4
cal Administration in both the House of Representatives end the House
of Councillors. hiech mayor should likewise know the nenbers of the Lo-
cal Autoncmy Agency. Alno, end of major importance, is the fact that
the mayor should have the best of working relationships with the men
bers of the Diet who are elected fron the city or nearby electoral dis-
trict. These representatives and councillors should mean much to the
meyor but not any nore so then the mayor end the city government should
mean to them.
Just like the me urs of cities in the United States, the mayors in .
Japan heve a greet many relatively new lews and cabinet orders to en-
force. A quick surmary then gives a totel of at least 90. These laws
are to be contr sted with the Chihojichiho. Certain provisions of
these other lews and crbinet orders provide the mayor with particular
authority end resporsitility. Cther laws charge the city governnent
with duties rether thon the mayor hinself which fact, of course, makes
him indirectly responsible. The following laws are illustrative of how
all of then charge the mayor with certain duties.
(1)
The Fire Defense Organization Lew, Law No. 226 es of
23 December 1947, elnost complete euthority is given to
the mayor wider this Law to organize and set up the
operation of the fire depertment.
(2)
The Crbinet Order No. 64 of 1949 entitled, "Orgenizations'
Control Order" in which the mayor is charged to register
all the political parties in the city.
(3)
The Imperial Ordinence No. 207 of 2 Mey 1947 entitled,
"Registration of Aliens" by which the mayor is required
to register all aliens within the city.
(4)
The Child Welfare Law. Law No. 164 as of 12 Decenber
1947, in vhich Articles 11, 13, 20, 22, 23, 24, 35
end especially 51 inpose on the nayor end city Child
Welfare responsibilities.
(5)
The Lew Regarding Greveyards, Burials end Others, Law
No. 48 as of 1948 in which the mayor end the city must
take care of these importent duties.
(6)
Census Registr-tion Lew, Law No. 324 es of 22 December
1947 in which the business of registration will be
maneged by the meyor.
24

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
(7) The Local Tex Lew, Law No. 110 as of 7 July 1948.
permits the mayor end city government to levy
locel texes.
(8)
The School Educetion Lew, Law No. 207 as of 10 June
1947, the mayor is given authority in Article 26 as
the meneging agency of the prinary school established
in the city to suspend those children fron attending
school who ere suffering from infectious diseeses or
feered to be in darger of suffering from then, or to
sucpend children whose bad conduct does or may ob-
struct the orderly educetion of the other children.
Article 5 is elso importent.
In eddition to such lews as just named the mayors heve the responsi-
bility of executing the verious Ministry Orders essigned by the governor
in the econonic field involving rice, wheet, and other crop quotes. In
this connection, e necessary enendnent to eny such lews should be made
to provide the city or the operating authority with a procedure to de-
ternine the reesonableness of e quota for eny given area. Inportent
mitigating factors rust be taken into consideration; storn, danege to
the crops or other calerities effecting the physical ebility of the
ferners to meet the quotas previcusly set. lthough no court decisions
on this point ere presently eveilable, it is quite possible thet the
8
reasonableness of these quota orders in this economic field could be
tested in the Mandenus procedure provided for in Article 146.
Wnile the meyor acts in these netionel or prefectural matters, he
is subject to the supervision of the governor. Moreover, when he is
delegeted to act in a perticuler matter, he hes no discretion and must
cerry out the essignment. Article 146 of the Chiholichino gives the
governor the supervisory powers. The proceeding is in the nature of
mandanus through which a governor cen bring en action against a mayor
to compel him to carry out e national lew. In this proceeding the
rights of the mayor ere fully protected. He is given an opportunity
to present his enswer in the first stege or man amus proceeding end
again to present his defense in the second stege or contempt proceed-
ing. It is only fter the meyor has been ordered by the court to carry
out the national law ena hes vilfully refused to do so end is, therefore,
found guilty in a court proceeding of wilfully refusing, that the gov-
ernor can consider action for removel of the meyor fron office. The
25

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.99)
constitutionality of any law or order can elweys be tested in thim
proceeding es a natter of defense by the meyor. He should never
afraid to do this. The governor is given the authority to carry out
end execute the lew involved once the mayor refuses. However, if the
law is declered unconstitutionel then the governor has no further right
to execute the.lsw. Any neyor removed under this provision cannot hold
office for two years thereefter. It must be remembered thet the pro-
visions of Article 146 do not apply to the mayor's relationships with
the governor on locel affeirs in any manner. When the mayor is acting
on local effairs, he is responsible to the city's electorate.
8. The Mayor Prd the Public. The Mayor's Office must be open to
the public. It must be open to the public most of the time. The mayor
can and should receive citizens, out of town visitors, representatives
fron civic organizations end clubs. Most of these people cen be end
will be helpful if the mayor will allow then to be. Some people will
be representing pressure groups. These people cen be nost disconcert-
ing. Other pecple will be the usuel cranks or extra brillient persons
who desire to set the whole world afire with their unique ideas! They
cen plen enything end they know precisely how to run ell offices! Every
city in the world, unfortunetely, hes its percentege of these zestful,
yet wierd reformers! Even though deelt with firnly and are disnissed
fron the office, they do not heve to be sent way offended. Nivatori
o sakuni gvuto o rochiyu.
The public's right of petition end right of recell ere fundanental.
Neither of these rights should be abused. The recall proceeding is pro-
vided for in Articles 81, 82, 83 and 84. The recall systen is a good
legal procedure of governnent because it gives the people thenselves
a direct check on public officials. Unfortunately, in Japan the ex-
perience of the past two years shows thet the systen is being abused.
It should only be used in extrene cases. In Anerice. in which the
systen hes been used for sone thirty yeers, only a few actual ceses
have crisen. In Japen the systen is abused by being used ell too fre-
quently end by ninority groups who cannot otherwise impress their
26

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.98)
a
will upon the public officials. It is up to the citizens to under
stand this danger and not sign one petition, two petitions or any
number of petitions, reedily against any official. It is up to the
citizens to understend whet they ere doing and not be mislead into
signing by felse pronises of tex reductions end one hundred and one
other dreeny issues. Above all, they should not sign petitions sim-
ply "in order not to offend friends" who ask for such signatures.
Again, neny of the compleints egainst neyors have arisen over their
enforcement of the rice end other grain quotes. These ere netional
demands, not local at oll. The public should understend that the mayor
has no discretion in these national matters. Certainly he does not set
the quote.
The mein source of difficulty for mayors in Japan end en indirect
cause of many recall proceedings grous out of the lack of adequate fi-
nence. While Article 234 gives to the mayor the responsibility of
drewing up & budget to present to the assenbly, the tax structure of
Jepan as fixed in other laws is such thet there is no guerentee that
the funds anticipated will be received. Incrcasing labor end material
costs heve no respect for the best plenned budget. This results in
having to pass a revised or supplemental budget within a short time
after the general budget hes been passed. In addition to the diffi-
culty of these labor and neterial costs, the central government re-
duced the locel governnents' share of the incone end corporetion
taxes from 33 percent to 16 percent and reduced the anount available
for subsidies drastically. Planned progrens for the local governments
are, therefore, impossible. Needed public services cennot be supplied.
The citizens most unfortunately look to the mayor for ection and hold
hin responsible. This is & great mistake and wrong. It should be
clear that neither the nayor nor the assembly is responsible for this
financiel impesse, The responsibility of the financiel tregedy of the
lodal governnents lies with the Cebinet nd the Diet. They must re-
vise the tax laws of Japen so as to put a firm finencial foundation

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
existing situation, the public should not meke the nistake of taking
action egainst the localofficials over a problen which their local
officials can neither control locally nor solve locally. The mayor
nust put on en agguessive canpaign of public information for the citi-
zens acqurinting then with the financiel linitations under which the
city fethers must. operate.
The City's Reletions to Other Locel Governnents
Every locel givernment is an intergal pert of the prefecture.
Each city has e finaenental reletion to all the local governments as a
whole. No city of its owm accord and by its own action can break eway
from the prefecture. No. city can tell the other cities, towms and vil-
leges, "Good morning end good-bye. We have broken awey to form our own
separate special status?" Such grave proceedings demend the referendum
of the entire profe ture. The Constitution in Article 95 states that a
referenduri of "the locel public body concerned" must be teken when a
city is attempting to breek ewey to have special stetus. The city is
not "the local public body concorned" within thet specific meaning. The
prefecture is that "loc:1 public body concerned" beceuse the city is a
part of the prefecture. No werd within a city can breek ewey from the
rest of the city government nerely by seying. "ve heve deoided anong
ourselves to take speciel independent status of our owm, good-bye!"
The city is "the local public body concerned" and not the ward beceuse
the ward is an intergal part of the city. What would happen to all of
government if all ontities could do es they pleesed with no regerd for
their counter perts? Whet would the city do? The mayor would take ed-
ministretive ection at once. A court if eppeeled to would be bound to
say to the ward "the city is the primary party, even though you desire
to separate, you are the secondery perty!" To the city elso the court
would be bound to stete, "For you to breek awey to get special separate
status requires a referendun of the prefecture. The prefecture is the
prinery party concerned. Even though you sterted and desire this, you
28

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.96)
are the secondary party."
The neyors of ell cities heve the responsibility for the prpy
initietion end proper execution of the referendun on such natters.
The mayors heve nost significent relationships with the problen
of dissolution, division, union or alteration of bounderies.
a
Article 7 provides for the creetion of a city, town or villege
as well es its dissolution, division, or union or alteration of the
boundary by the governor besed on the applicetion of the cities, towns
or villeges concerned. upon the passage of a resolution by the prefec
tural assembly, folioved by notificetion to the Prime Minister. Where
the change in bounl-ries effects the prefecturel boundary then the
Prine Minister nekec the deternination. Disposition of property in the
affected erea shell be deternined by the mutuel agreenent of the cities.
towns or villeges concerned.
 These agreerents shall be mede by resolu-
tions adopted by the es enblies of the ordinsry public bodies concerned.
When the Prine Minister receives the notification of a change of bounda-
1
ries not affecting the prefectural boundary, or when he epproves an ap-
plication resulting in e change of prefectural bounderies, he nust give
public notice therecf. Article 7 is appliceble only when complete egree-
nent is reached anong the various entities involved in the proposed
chenge in status.
In cases in which e dispute exists releting to the boundaries then
Article 9 epplies. This Article provides for the local bodies concerned
to bring an action into court for a decision. Where the boundary is in-
distinct but no dispute exists anong the cities then the governor nay
bring an ection in court to deternine the correct boundery. The latter
cases unless ospecially provided for in cabinet orders, must be brought
under the Lew Concerning the Procedures of Nor-lcgal Cases.
1
In Decenber 1947 the Diet enacted Law No. 196 anending Article 7
of the Lew Concerning Local Autonony end providing thet where alterations
in tne areas of a city, tovn or village were mede by war causes during
the period fron July 7, 1947 to Septerber 2, 1945, that the inhabitents
29

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
of the former ereas may reestablish the former bounderies notwit
standing the provisions of Article 7. This Law specifically provide
that the majority vote of the inhabitants of the forner area is re
quired to establish the former bounderies. This provision is an ex
ception to the generel rule requiring e vote of the whole erea con-
cerned end is based on that fect that the problem is not to create
sorething new but rather to reesteblish bounderies that existed during
a stated period of tine. This speciel provision expires within two
years from its passpge.
Paregreph 5 of this provision has given rise to a serious legal
problen involving the right of the prefectural assembly to disregard
the result of the locsl election. To date no court decision has clari-
fied the meening of the peragraph on this point. Beceuse of the
serious econonic problens arising in sone twenty-four ceses involving
this question the Liet should clerify the issue in the next session.
The meyor hes edditional responsibilities when the city hes
pertiel affairs which cen be worked out in conmon with other cities.
towns end villeges. In such situations according to Articles 284
through 293 of the Chinjichiho. the locel governments concerned can
have their partial affairs executed by a opeciglly forned. association
which is a juridicel person. The associetion maneges the project for
all the cities, towns or villages involved. The partial affeirs for
the city nay be a project in weter, road or senitation.
Progressive Mayors
Why is it that going into some cities, as compered to others,
there are such noticeeble differences in their atrospheres end ap-
pearances? One looks at their outskirts end approaches, railroads
and grade crossings, the crnels and bridges or overpasses. the public
buildings, the business buildings, the docks and waterfronts, the
wholesele fish end vegetable narkets, the paved and lighted streets,
the parks and gardens, the terples and shrines, libreries and art
galleries, end even the zoos end entertainment esteblishnents. Why
30

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
are eone cities so beantiful that the incoming visitore
where we wish to livel" why in other cities does the sar
pressed and sey, "I must get out of here!" Do you remember th
remerks made ebout the poor owner of the gete and zori shopt He wowk
hard and had long hours. Yet, as he sat in his shop cutting and she
ing the gete end seving the zori and now end then making loving re-
nerks to his five little children, people pessing along would say, "No,
he has little money. The kinono for the fenily are very poor quality.
But they are never dirty. The little petches are so neatly sewed over
the holes. The kinono slweys have the fresh and clean look." Just so -
exactly so with the city. Regerdless of the resources of the munici-
pelity, regerdless of 30,000 people living there or 4,000,000, the city
cen always be kept cleen. It cen alweys be well nainteined. This
should be the desire end goal for ell cities.
Why are there such grert differences? Why do some localities look
like the discerded worn-out geta lying in the street? They should not
have the tern city applied to them at all. Doubtless there is no leeder-
.ship in the pleces'at ell. Doubtless, too, there is no civic-mindedness
in the places. Such unfortunate conditions in eny locelity cen easily
be changed.
A good mayor with a strong progran cannot only be the leader within
his city, but clso he con neke his city e leeding one in Jepen. A good
nayor will eesily secure the cooperation of all civic organizations,
and if they do not exist, he cen launch then.
City planning is of the utmost inportance for good city edninistra-
tion. City planning produces needed changes in the physicel develop-
nent of a city. City plenning rests on a legel basis fron which compre-
hensive beneficial chenges can be achieved. City plenning includes
zoning, which neens thet regulations for all buildings end use of land
cre the sane for all irers of the sane type. Zoning reduces expenses
end texes and protects herlth end properties. Every nayor in Japan can
institute a workable city plenning progren. The City Planning Law and
31

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
the Speciel City Pranning Law provide ample opportin
gressive nayors with the aid of civic grouns to develop
into better business, nenufecturing, cultural end residentielp
palities. The major portion of the city populetion in the United
States lives under zoning regulations which they thenselves have enented.
A progressive mayor always gives an annual report to the people of
the city. In the United Stetes sone of these reports are so exeellent
in content and the type of presentation that they are in great denand,
not only by the taxpayers of the city, but also by officials and gov-
ernnent specialists of other municipelities and even state governnents.
Whether or not the city by-lew requires an ennual report is not the
question at ell. A civic-ninded neyor will elweys give a report end
in it he will always give e good statenent of the entire affairs of the
city's difficulties or progress. In the United States many cities heve
their own municipel redio stetions end cinere studios which are used
solely for inforning the citizenry of city governnent affeirs.
The executive's report for Honolulu. Hewaii, bears the title, "The
Mayor of Honolulu Reports to the People for 1948." The City of Hono-
lulu hes a populetion of 268, 913 persons and all of these citizens are
interested in where their taxes go and how they are spent. The mayor
told them in grephic style how their municipel tax dollar had been spent
which was as follows:
(1) Public Safety, which includes police protection,
fire protection, traffic control, and other protective ec-
tivities. Total cost: ------------
22¢
(2) Highways, which includes supervision, maintenance,
new construction end reconstruction, street lighting: --- 19¢
(3) Senitation and Weste Removal, which includes
sewer systems, storm drains, cesspool pumping, refuse
(4) Schools, which includes construction end
maintenence of buildings and grounds, jenitorial serv-
9¢
(5) Recreation, which includes parks, organized
recreation end band: - - --
9¢
32

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.97)
(6) Retirement Provisions, which includes pene
sion payments, retirement contributions;
(7) General Government - Staff Agencies. which
includes elections, finence, law, recording end re-
porting, plenning and zoning, personnel, general gov-
ernment buildings: ----------------
6
(8) Conservation of Public Health and Morale,
which includee health activities, ambulence service,
indigent convalescent home, correction: - --- - --
6φ
(9) Miscelleneous, which includes employeest
bonus, damage cleims, workmen's compensation, rent
control, unclessified services: - -- - - - -- - -
5¢
(10) Debi Service, which includes interest pay-
ments, retiremen' contributions: -----------
4¢
(11) General Covernment Control, which includes
legisletive, executive, judicial: -- --- ----- 2
Total:
1~$1.00
This illustrated Report is filled with details of edministration
in pictures, meps, end informetive tables and charts. Such reports
are of direct informetion to the citizen. Moreover, over e period of
years the reports nake en invalueble chronicle of the activities of the
city government.
In Englend the official locel government's report on its effairs
to the citizens would show that its income was derived meinly from fees.
tolls or rentals, from its properties, from taxes, from public utilities
such as water and from grants-in-aid from Parliement. The report would
elso show where these funds went. In the Administrative country. for
example, which is the lergest territorial area of local government, 90%
of the taxpayers' noney is spent on elementery end secondery educetion.
some kind of public essistance in relief of the poor, highweys and the
police.
The Mayor's Congress of All Japan
The Meyor's Congress Association in Japen is the organization to
which ell meyors of cities mey belong to further the mutual interests
of their cities as well as themselves. An organization of this nature
is always needed. Through this C.ongress the mayors heve sessions. and
conferences to discuss their problens of city government. Ideas are
33

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
exchanged on methoda of solving verious diffiotits
New lews or the necessery chenges in the existing laws ere
by resoluticns to the Cabinet and to the various stending committeee
in the Diet. Nationwide problens of relief, disaster and rehebilite
tion are coordinated and presented to the verious Ministries involved.
The Shin To Shi of. the. gongress is a most useful magazine. Its editore
beer a great re'sponsibility by seeing thet all issues of inportance as
they arise through Japan ere brought to the attention of the Congress.
The president of the Meyor's Congress served x-officio es a nenber
of the original Local Finence Connittee which rendered excellent Bervice
to all cities in obtaining. the transfer of. ad:ission taxes and e five
percent tax on alcohol for local bodies. Hed the full recommendations
of this connittee been adopted by the Cabinet the present finencial
plight of cities would not be so severe.
The Mayor's Congress hes. its counterpert of state, regional and
nationel orgenizations in the United States and in other western demo-
cratic countries. Ningen iteru-tokoro seizen eri.
 The Congress shoula continue its services as a greet civic órgani-
zation for the betternent of locel autonony in Jepen.
July 1949
34

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.97)
Enelosuve'#3
HEADQUARTERS EIGHTH UNITED STATES ARMY
Civil Affairs Section
Legal and Goverrment Division
THE LOCAL AUTONOMY PROGRAM FOR THE CITIES OF JAPAN
Paper No. 3.
The Assembly in Japan
Thc successful operation of city assemblies in the nation is of
vital importance to the long range objective for Japan to implant and
keep sound and healthy representetive covernont. The new assemblies
have real power and authority as contrasted with the impotent and weak
character of pre-war assemblies. To the extent that the assemblies
actuelly use end exorcise their presently established functions, can
the success of representative govemnent be measured in cities. To
the extent that they develep denocratic leadership in local govemnent,
cen the cities command respect and secure desirable reputations. The
Chihojichiho or Law Concerning Local Autoncmy creates assemblies as de-
liberative argans conposed of rerresentatives clected by direct popular
vote of the pecple. The old lsws provided for direct elective represen-
tetion but they certainly did not prcvice for the assemblyman to do any-
thing after he was eleeted. The assembl ies are vested with a range of
local functions to permit and enecurege a maximun of individual thought.
initiative and judgment in the management of their local comunity affairs.
One significant fact vill be renembered. The assombly as an insti-
tution in the United States and Inglish countries, is the foundation of
representative covermment. In England and in the United States the
greatest interest has been generated by the position in governnent of
the assembly as a deliberative body. In England the very existence of
the national and lecal governments rosts upon the power and funetions
of the free assembly - the perliament and the Iccel council. In the
4.
United States creat stress has been laid on the character and power of
the legislative bely in all govornmental unite, the federal govermment,
the state, the county, special cistricts, cities, towns and villages.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
The exercise and concentration of all the power of government
man, or in one man and a amell clique of men, orin just a oliquo or
is dangerous inherently to tho people who comprise the populace or oiti
zenry of the svate. The United States has never countenanced such a con-
dition. Fngjand drcpped the condition in the year A.D. 1215 when the
people secured from vilful King John, the Magna Carta or charter of
liberties. A strong deliberaiive assenbly as a branch of government as
it exists today in the United States and in England is a guard against
a powerful oxecut ive branch wlich far toc orten in European and South
American experience has led to evil authoritarianism or dictatorship.
The good conduct of city covernment in Jaran is fundamental to the
welfare of the whole nation. The conditions in the cities affect the
welfare of rural dvellers as well. Epidemics, water pollution, policing
and law enforcement within the city affects the neighboring communities.
No city can live for itself; the welfare, prosrerity and good govern-
ment of the nation as a thole deponds in great measure upon the condition
of the city governnents vithin its borders.
In this Puper the ganization and operation of the assembly will
be discussed with emphasis not so much on the variety of funetions but
rather on the way in vhich they are being executed. It is from the city
assembly that the by-laws are obtained by the wayer which empower him
to execute the desired affairs of the comvity for the citizenry.
City Governments and Asserblies
Under English and Auerican law a city is c municipality authorized
to exist and to camy on its affairs as a putlic corporation. The state
as the central gover n.ent creates the municipality and clothes it with
many legal rights. It has ccnvinuity of life; it can own and dispose
of property.
What is the purpose of the creation and establishment of cities?
In European countries like Fance, Germany and Ituly, cities have func-
tioned as agencies of the coniral sovernment. In such a capacity the
municipality has only a fow legal rights of its owm. However, in France
C

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
the city has more local authority than in either Corma
In the latter countries the city assembly or counoil morely
members barely have pover to greet each other and then say
The assembly can do little freely; it is under the central governmont
rigid control. In Fascist Italy the cities were an absolute part of
tho central administrative system. In Fascist Italy, city counoils had
no authority. They did not meet to carry on city affairs; they merely
net to say "Yes!" to enything civen them by an overpowering one man 
one party central governn.ent.
Another purpose for the creation and establislment of cities is
demonstrated by English end Aacrican experiences. The people or citi-
zens largely settle all their own problems which arise within the city's
area. The elected representatives hold the peoples' trust and therefore
are the public corporation's trustees. As shovm in Paper No. 1, these
elected officials render the sorvices of city government. American and
English cxperiences demonstrate also that tho city is not an isolated
unit of government in the state. The city is given state duties and ob-
ligations. The city has a definite covernnontal relationship with all
the other municipalities vithin the state's boundaries. Within this
state governmental sphere, the city exercises its powers and responsi-
bilities.
Thus, in England the great acts cf Parlianent create all local
governments which are the County, the County Borouch, the Municipal
Borough. the Municipal District, the Urban District and the Parish.
Each of these local governments has a council and each council exercises
specific powers of its om. The County Council's powers extend over all
the units within the County except (1) for ths County Borough which has
independont status, and (2) for linitations on police, elementary edu-
cation and roads which rosult from certain permissive conditions.
In the United States with but one sole exception, all municipali-
tios are creatures of laws or s cciel acts of some one of the 48 states.
The District of Colusbia contains the City of Washington and the capital
3

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.97)
of the United States; it is a special governmental agenoy orea
particular act of the United States Congress. Eeceuse of its min
legal character, neithor Washington, as a city, nor the District of Colum
bia, as a fedoral municipality, is ever in the seme classification of regu-
ler municipalities as is being discussed in this Paper. With this exoep-
tion then, the powers which all cities exercise are specified in the state
laws a tho particuler charter granted to tho city by the state. It also
occurs that one city may have legal variations from another oity within
the same state, because all incorporators seeking status for thcir area
as a municipality do not arply for the same powers to be put in the
various charters. lorcover, all city charters are not amended at the
same tine. Certainly there is wide legal variation among the govern-
mental povers exerci:ed by the cities of the 48 states. The great prin-
ciplo of governnont controlline the constitutionality of state laws or
charters creating nunicipalitics was settled in the United States by the
Supreme Court in the case of Stoutenburg vs. Honnick many years ago.
The decision makes clcar the legal position in the municipality's govern-
mental structure of t celiborative legisletive body whether it is
large or small in m be ship. The decision shews further why the city
asseably can oncet its lccal by-lavs (the first underlining of words be-
low) end what the legal nature of the local by-lavs is considered to be
(the second underlining of wards below). Ths famous decision, in part,
reads, "It is a cardinal principle of our system of tovernment, that
local affairs shall be mamvea ly lpeel susheities and general affairs
by the central euthcrity, und, hunce, while the rule is also fundamental
that the power to mece laws cannot be dologeted, the creation of munici-
palities exercising local sulf-covernnent has never been held to breach
that rule. Such l islation is not regarded as a transfer of general
legislative power, but rather as a prant of euth xity to prosoribe local
regulations."
Because the city is created and ustablished by the state, it, there-
fore, uxists solely under the poor or will of the state. Out of this
4

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.97)
fact and of fundamentel importance to the whole system of
government, is another fact: the will of the state can only be
by the assembly. This means that "the grant of authority to presoribe
local regulations" is expressed neither by the executive nor the pourt
So, too, in Japan today tho contral government through a national law
the Chihojichiho, has created the municipality. The law has created the
city as a juridical person, a public corporation. The municipality is
e public carporation because the state establishod it as an aiding in-
strumentality for government to benefit the public and to further the
good of the public. The term public, of course, means the people. The
term corporation here meens the body or legal azenay which is to act for
all the people in the desigrated aree. The two terms used frequently,
civil corporation and political cornoration, mean the same thing as pub-
lic corporation. In older language, very real and very practical language,
the municipal corporation is a body politic. This term means that all
the people of the district are braught togother legally by the state to
be one person, to bo one body, and that this person, this body, will act
to benefit and to assist all of those poople. In doing this very thing.
it will benefit and assist the stato's overnent as a whole. Moreover,
the body politic has life. It, therofore. lives. It has continuity;
its legal nature permits it to go right along goverming and acting for
the people yuar after year. The municipality in Japan is a juridical
porson under the Chihojichihn; hence, th city has a life of its own.
It can ovm property and exercise its legal rights and responsibilities
like a city in Aericu or in England, Australia, New Zealand or Canada.
The Law Concernina Locel hutonomy
The character and extent of the granted povers for city assemblies
to pess local r-culations are found in Chepter I, Article 2 of the Chiho-
jichiho.
The character and strueture of the city aseeablies are stated in
 Chaptar VI of the law beginning vith Article 89 extending through and
ending vith Article 138.
2

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.95)
Othor nattors rolating to the assonbly, suoh as eloation of
nenbors and its rolation to othor divisions of govornnont, are fo
other articloss
Additional lavs pesscd fran tin to tino vhich roquiro tho city go
orniont to tako dircotcd action in particular affairs, such as for exarple.
hoalth, financo or public wolfaro. can ompover tho assonbly with nore.
authority, Thosc lavs are important and should be carefully reforoncod
by tho city offic ials.
In this Paper certain aspects of tho cloracter and position of tho
assonbly aro discussed. A point for point treatmont of all tho articles
of tho lavs is not given.
Organization of tho hssenbly
The city assembly of tho presont 232 citios in Japan has a ninirun
nombership of 30 directly clected reprosontatives; the maximun number is
100. The monbers are clocted for a period of four years. Whon. for any
reason, a momber fails to sorve his full torm. a by-clcction is hold and
tho vinning candidato fills out tho unexpired portion of it.
Upon convocation tho csoonbly fron anong its noibcrs clccts a chair-
man and a vice-chaim an, beth of whon have a four year torm. If for any
reason neithor of those can serve, nor an clected ceting chairrnn, thon
the Sonior Assorblymen does so. Tho assembly also has a clerk and socre-
tarial assistants who are appointed by the chaiman. As givon later in
this Paper the asso bly is further organized by its creation of standing
cormittees and, for perticular purposes, spccial com ittoos.
The Chihojichiho did not alter the long custcn handed dowm in the
threo old laws coneorn ing proicetures, citios and torms and villages with
their unicaneral system. Tho provision for the one chember in city govorn-
nont in Japen is like that in the borough and city covernnents in England
and that in noarly a'l the city governmonts in the United Statos. In
fact, loss than 20 citios in the United States have the bicameral syston.
Hovever, two examples con be givon of great cities with this systen:
2
tho City of New York, with c populctien today of 7.900,000 porsons, (Metro-
politan District arprexi atcly 12, 000, C00) has a Board of Estimato of 8
nenbors end the Council of 25 mombers; and the City of Ltlanta, Goorgia.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.97)
with a population of 302,288 porsons in 1940, has 12 coumoflmen
aldermen. Virtually all English citios have aldermon but thoir aldo
mon do not constituto a separate chamber. Tho English administration in
local governmont calls fcr the unicameral system.
The sizc of the city assembly in Japan, both in number of mombers
and in proportion to tho city's population, is substantially larger than
that in tho United States. Thus, Chicago, with its population of 3,396,808
in 1940, has a council of but 50 members; Sen Frarcisco: with a population
of 634.536, has a council of but 1l monbers; and Lotroit, tho automobile
capital of tho world, with a population of 1.623,452, has a council of
but 9 members.
In Englend the sizo of the Council of the local governments in rela-
tion to tho population is rolativoly cmall, cspecially when ono considers
that the Council is a "combinod" lc giclative and cxecutive authority.
Thus, London proper, vith its 28 motropolitan boroughs of 8,700,000 per-
sons, an area of 117 squ re miles. governed by the "Mayor and Commonality
and Citizen of tho City of Lenden," hos a counc il of 226 members. Tho
City of Birningham, vith a population of 1.076, 00c. has a ccuncil of 136
mombers.
In Australia, too, the courcils cre smrll as, for cxample, Sidney
with a population of 1,336.520 is a city ca posed of 13 vards, each of
which clects two councillors to the couicil; and Melbourne, with a popu-
lation of 1,115,200, is a city of 11 vards, cach of vhich clects thrco
eldermen to tho com.cil.
There is little question but that the size of the city assembly as
well as the profcctural acsan.bly in Japan coula be reduccd 50 percent.
This reduction vould vield creat savings in city expenses and the tax-
payers' money as well es inercase the officieney of the assumbly's opera-
tion.
The Sonsions of the Assembly
The Chihojichihe provides fer not less than six regular sessions of
the assembly a y ar and such sp cial sessions as are callcd cither by the
7

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.97)
mayar or members of tho assombly. Tho old Shisei. bocauso the
did not have much legiclative power and was not supposed to have many
affairs to pass upon, required only the yearly short session and such
speoial scssions as the reyor would call. By wiso and careful planning
of tho assembly's agenda in edvance, the number of special or extre ses-
sions could bo reduced to no more than one or two a year. Every sossion
is costly for tho taxpaycrs. The cost of theso sessions. regular as well
as extra, should be or cancern to the assomblymen as they should set an
oxample for cconomy to tho ontiro city administration. The longth of the
session and its adjournmonts are mattors the assombly today decides for
itself, Articlc 102. The assombly could not do so previously.
It is important at thc convening of the scssion that the assembly
go through a number of established procedures before the regular or spe-
cial business is takon up.
The Chihojichiho provides that the session of the assembly, although
normally called by tho mayer, Article l0l, is oponcd by the chairman.
Article 106. Howover, in Article 114 the mmbers are given the right to
elect an acting chairmen to of on the scssion if the regular chairman or
vice-chairman is incapacitated. The closing of this session is accom-
plished by resoluticn of the members.
Before business can be transacted lcgally, a quorum must be present
and the Law stipulates thrt a majority of the full mombership constitutes
a quorum. However, in ordor to provent non-operation of the assembly by
absentecism, the Luw ailows a losser number than a majority of the full
mambership to constitute & quorum in the uvent a sufficient number are
not in attendance sutsucuent to full notice being given of the session
as stated in Article ll3. The quorum is dircctly affoctcd by tho eligi-
bility of membarship anā by rosignation, Article ll3. The assembly is
the judgo of the qualifications of its cim menmburs end Article 127 gives
it the right by a two-thircs voto to deteimine the eligibility of its
members on throe grounds: (1) rertal cepetoncy, (2) court sentonces which
may have been ad judged, and (3) eny contence in an cloction law violation
case. In this proceeding the moiber can appear and speak in his own behalf
8

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.96)
but cannot vote on tho issuc, It is important to note
passing tho Chihojichiro provides in Article 128 that the
not to be susponded fram offico until after final court action ha
completed. This provision rightly presumes the official to be innooant
ponding his or hor triel and possible appeal proceodings. It is nocoasary
to do so not only from the standpoint of principle but also from that of
maintaining stability in goverment. The prcvision in Articlo 126 of pro-
hibiting an asscmblyman from rosigning until he scoures the permission of
the assaably or of the chairman if the asscmbly is not in session, is like-
viso a stipulation to secure stability. Tho Japanese custom to rosign
on a moment's notice is, thorefore, not only contrary to democratic prin-
ciples but also counter to tho cloar intontion of tho Dict. Many instances
have occurred in which asscmblymen, in simple enotion, have needlessly ro-
signed. This tendoncy is not only vrong, but also is a waste of the tax-
payers' money in tho cost of furthor by-slectiors.
After the session is opened the clork of the essembly must keep an
official record of the bucincss of the sossion. A copy of this report
signed by the chaiiman and two lembers is r quired by Artiele 123 to be
del ivered to the mayor as well as the governer. Ir the United States no
report from the cities is requived to be cont to the governor.
Standing camittoes for rarticular funetions cre, of course, formed
and mect to discuss the affairs which have been sont to them or which
the mambers have origirated thenselves. Whon the standing committee
fumctions properly, it is n essential element in the life of the assem-
bly. The standing ccimittce must do all tho prelininary work on bills
or resolutions and present its best findings and rosults to the plonary
sc3sion.
Both in England and in the United States the committee system in
lccal. govermnont is fundanental. In England, as as been given above,
the couneil onasts all decisions in local govermont. The cammittees
which augnent the work of the council as it governs are of two types:
there is the statutory or obligatory camnittee which, by en act of Parlia-
mont, the local governments must create. Thore is the permissive committee
9

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.98)
which the local govornments at their discretion aan establish
of the statutory committees are the Education Committees of the Bo
Councils required by the Education Act. the Agricultural Committoes. also
for the Counties, roquired by the Ministry of Agriculture Act, and very
important, the Finance Comittees of the County Council and the Motro-
politan Boroughs established by tho Local Government Act of 1888 and the
London Government Act of 1889. The acts frequently require certain par-
ticulars regarding the cormittces, such as (1) before the council itself
can act on the special function it must recoive and study the specially
charged committee's reports, and (2) the committee's structure must be
of a particular charaster; thus, the Child Welfere Conmittee roquired by
the Maternity and Child Welfaro Act, mist have two-thirds of membership
composed of members of the councii and one-third from outside representa-
tion of specialists, at loast two of vwhom must be women.
The pormissive committeus thich the councils of the local govern-
ment create have delegated authority. The delegated powers vary in de-
gree among the different local governments. Although they have varied
delogated povers, finance is one which they do nct have. It is not the
practice for councils ever to allow these conmittees to levy taxes or
reise funds by means of loans.
In England, the commuttees, because of their smooth functioning and
important rendering of :erviccs, have for moet practical purposes become
autonomous thenmselves so that the action which they produce is normally
final for the couneil. Thus, the committec systam is a fundamental part
of the council.
In the United States, committees are part and parcel of the city
assemblies. Those ccmmit tees wWhich ere creatcd ly the assembly funetion
solely for the ascombly, rathor than for the ntire city administration
as is the English custom. This difference is the result of the separation
in the United States of the executive power fion t.c council's or assem-
bly's legislative po.er. The comittee system is discussed at some length
in Paper No. 5 of the Local Autonomy Progrem for the Prefectures of Japan.
10

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.97)
The cammittee system for the assemblies in 
Chiholichiho follovs the proceduro in the United States mane 
that in the United Kingdom.
The majority vote to sottlo virtually ell issues of the assembly
the parlicmentary practice closest to the heart of representative governe
ment. Tho majority vote is e mechanism of political scienoo by whioh the
divergent wishes of the people aro exprossed through their elected repre-
centatives. Some instences hevc occurred of late in various assemblies
which indicate that sone memhers are trying to avoid the principle and
to circuvent its practical cpplication. In some assemblies particuler
issues have caused tho most heatcd kind of argurnts and debates. The
number of assembl ymen taking opposite views has been approximately
equally divided. Where scmpromise has seemirgly been impossible to
reach, some members have threctcned recall of those net in agrcement
with them. Othors have gene farther and tried actually to have a peti-
tion started for dissolution of the esseibly! Thoy have done this rather
than lot the is ue come to a vote - that is to lave it settled by the
mejority, settled by tle traditionally corroct ma jority vete. This ac-
tion and type of thinking dofcat the very purpose of representative gov-
ernnent.
As assemblyman, you have only to do tho bost that you cen. You have
only to support you position and then cast your vote cven though the
other side may out-nunber yor side. As tassemblyman, you vote tho issue
as you see it. This also moims that you vcte the issue in tems of the
desires of the constitacncy or district that you represent. Having
voted the issue, you und your group may have won or may have lost. When
you lose, the result is simply cnd only that in this perticular "political
fight" the opposition hes won. The fact that you and your group have
lost an issue is never rounds to attempt to turn the assembly chambor
into a circus, to cet crowds outsido to run erou.d vith signs and banners
or to attenpt seme other etr ia trick vhich is indicative of a bad heart.
Such actions are not roflections of a good heart - a loyal heart for
good goverment. The loser of a political isrue today is often the winner
11

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.95)
of another tanorrow, In tho vestorn world political dofeete ere
with  smilo as voll as political victorioso
While it is your duty to acccpt tho docision of tho majority. it is
also your duty to mako your opinicn cloar beforo tho voto is talon and to
rogistor your votc on bohalf of that opinion. Corproniso is a good thing
but it must be roal compraniso: not just tinidity or a dosiro to "bo in
with tho stronger sidc." Thorcforo. if you aro absolutely suro that you
aro right, mako suro to voto in lat sonso, sven though you know that your
opinion is a nirority onc. Mirority opinions in vostern donocratic coun-
trios vory ofton exorcisc an iiportnt rodorating influonco on the action
of majoritics and aro tus extro ely valuable. Do not be afreid thon, of
boing in tho ninority
To a dogrec tho winning and losing of issues in politics and govorn-
nent can bo conpared to winning and losing in tho groat and manly gano of
baseball. There is but ono principlo in tho gaio of basoball. That prin-
ciple is good sportsrenship. lio basobell player is particularly fond of
losing gamos but vhen ho does lcse, he doosn't fccd the basebell to tho cle-
phants or use the ball bets for fire woodi Goed sportsi anship is donand-
od from overy player on the team whether pleying in the fiold or sitting
on the bonch. All of you asse blyren knew thic feet. Thorofore, carry
out the city's affeirs vitnin the rules of represontetive gevernment.
Tho sessions of the aseeribly in reprosentetive covernnent must vithout
oxception bo conducted in an ordorly end dicnified ft shion. This is a cer-
dinal principlo to which the anee tly must sdhure. As to the conduct in
the assombly chamber of uhe essenblyien thoneelves. the Chihojichiho nakos
cloar that that conduct shonla be cxe plary. The cheinman can rulo an as 
senblynan out of order and stop hir fron speakinge The chairman, if nec-
ossary. can have the asserblyan renoved fran the chamber for tho balance
of tho day. Should tre ocension be an oxtr,ordintry one, the chairman
can order the sessien closed for tho deye Asse blme are prohibited
fron rnking persenal cr insol nt stet ronts cgainst one another. Prop-
pr discipline in case such offenses are comitted must be moted out.
The cheirinn hos t e pover of dizeirlining esserbly rembers. Dise iplino
12

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.97)
can result in expulsion, if approved by e threa-fo
thirds of the membere. Lesser action can consist of (1)
mand, (2) public apology, or (3) suspension for a fixed parid
134 and 135.
Powers of the City Ansembly
The povers and authcrity of the city assembly are essentially
legislative, they are also investigative. In the conduct of the city's
affairs the assembly is often in need of facts to enact effectivo by-laws
or to obtein infomation on the results of action taken by the administra-
tion. Although the lcgiclative and investigative powers are different
functionally, almost universelly the investigative is used as supplo-
mentary to the legislative.
It should be stated at the outset that the assenbly passes giketsu
or resolutions and jorei or by-laws. The giketsu is an intention of
the assembly; it is an interral affair of the assembly and under normal
conditions the duties or rights of the citizcn are not affected. The
oxeeption occurs only when the riketsu has been promulgated in a fixed
form; in this special cheracter it can heve similer cffects to the by-
law. The jorei is the by-law. The purpose in enacting it is to produco
same type of public action. It, therefore, does affect the rights or
cuties of the citizon.
In Article 2 of the Chihojichiho the onunorated povers are stipu-
lated under vhich the city acsombly can pass needed by-lavs for city's
affairs:
1. To maeintain local public order, protect cnd presorve the
safety. health, and welfare of the inhabitents and visitors
thereto;
2. To establish and ranege parks. playcrounds, open spaces,
greens, roads, bricges, rivers, cenals, reservoirs, irriga-
tion and dreinege vaterveys, and dykes and sinilar matters,
and to regulate the rights to use them;
3. To mamage water plants and other vater supplies. seve -
age systors, elcctric plents, gas plants, street-car services,
autamobile services, vessels and other transportation systems,
and other services;
4. To establish and inage docks, moles, piers, wharves,
warehouses, sheda and other establishments necescery for
13

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.96)
other maritimo and land transportation and to regulate
the rights to uso them;
5. To cstablish and managc schools, laboratcrios, ex-
porimental stations, libraries, art museus, goods ex-
hibitions, auditoriums, theaters, mussiel pavilions and
othor ostablishments relating to education, science,
culturo and promotion of industries, and to regulate the
rights to use them;
6. To ostablish and manage hospitals. isolated wards.
sanatoriums, disinfecting stavions, maternity hospitals,
residences, hostcls, dining-halls, baths, public latrines,
pawn-shops, workhcuses, public nurseries. asyla for the
aged, alrshcuses, refera orios, ja:is, butcheries, dust-
disposing stations, dirt-lieposing svaticns, crematories,
cometerics: and otler establironts relating to health
and sanitation and social velfere and to regulate the
rights to use thom;
7. To clean, disinfect, beautify, and prevent noises or
to restrain acts injurious to public morals and acts
staining cleanliness and besides to deal vith the matters
relating to health and senitation and refinement of public
morals;
8. To prevent crime, to prevent disastors, and to carry
out relief and protection of victims of disasters and to
deal vith similer affεivs;
9. To relieve, prctect and care for miors, the poor.
the sick, the old end veak, widows, defocvive persons,
vagrants, insane or incbriate persons and similar persons;
10. To manage forests, readous, land, rarliets. fishing
watersurfece, public vorkhouses and lesidor to undertake
profit enterprisen decmed to be neceseemy for the promo-
tion of public welfare;
ll. To cerry out hill-and-river-impovements, agricul-
tural land developront, edjusuments of arable land, re-
clanations of land frcn public vater surfacc, city-plan-
ning, iaprovomentn of dictricts undor poor conditions and
other improvements of land;
12. To deal with aflairs relating to fostoring and pro-
motion of invontions, in rovenonts of special products
and other inereese and mprovements in profuction;
13. To protect and manage historic places, places of
scenic beauty, and monunents;
14. To investicate the natters necessary for disposi-
tion of affairs of an ordinary local public body and to
make statistics of thom;
15. To deal with the affairs relating to officiel regis-
ters, identification and registering and other similar
matters relating to the inhabitants, visitors thereto
and other persons deened necessary;
16. To inspect, carry out inc ection with respect to
such matters as relate to meters, various products,
domestic enirals;
14

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.97)
17. To establish limitations relating to stru
buildings, facilities, the area of yards, court dondl
open spaco districts, the areas on the basis of dwel
trade, industry and other state of business of inhabitants
in accordance with the determination of laws:
18. To appropriate, enter upon and hold personal or real
property for any public purposo in eccordance with the de-
temninetion of laws;
19. To adjust and coordinate the activities of the public
bodies and other similar lodies within the arec of an
ordinary local public body;
20. To levy and colloct local taxeo,,rents. fees, alloted
charges, ontrance fees, or statutory labor and actual
articles in accordarce with the determinction of laws;
21. To create end nenage the pormanent property, sinking
funds end besides the reserve fund and grain and similar
matters;
An ordinary local public body may not deal with such
national affairs including but not li ited to those men-
tioned as follows;
1. Affcirs relating to all judicii matters;
2. Affairs relatiny to penel punisiment and
national disciplinary punishuent;
3. Affairs relatine to national transpartation
and comunic ti;
4. Affairs relating to post;
5.
Affairs relcting to nationel institutions of
Learmine, and research;
6.
Affuirs relating to rationel hompitals and
scnatorium;
7. Affairs rolating to rationcl ravigation,
neteorolcgical and hydrcgre phic institutions;
8。
Affairs role ting to naticnal uscuns and
librerics;
A spocial loxel public body shell, in accordance with
this Law, deal with its affairs.
The by-laws which are enacted by the city assembly must legally
come within the Constitution, the laws passed by the Diet and the by-
laws enacted by the prefectural covermnents. This legal position in
Japan of the city's by-laus is similer to that in the United States and
in Englend. The Constitution of the United States establishes certain
powers and affairs for the federal or national government end lodges
all remaining povers in the state governments. The State Constitutions
and laws in their turn, make divisions and refinements. They do so in
15

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.98)
the creation of the cities by enumeration and saparation
from the greator state authority.
In England, the Administrative County, of which there are 62 in-
cluding London, was created by the Act of 1888 as the largest terri-
torial area of local governnent. The extent of the County Counoil's
powers in some functions is limited within its territory because of
(1) other local entities and (2) established legal relations among all
the autonomous bodies. Thus, the County Council's power in Elementary
Education "stops short" of the Municipal Boroughs whose population is
10,000 or over and of the Urban Districts vhose population is 20,000
or over. The County Council's police powers "stop short" of Municipal
Boroughs whose population is over 10,O00. The County Council's powers
on important road matters "stop short" of Boroughs, of Urban Districts
and Rural Districts. Stated in another way as betveen the various local
governnents within the county on the one hand and the county government
itself on the other hand, there is a division and separation of some
administrative and financial affairs.
This situation is sinrilar to that of the police system in Japan
in which the power of tho National Rural Folice "stops short" of all
toms and villcges of 5.o0o or more. Many similar caparisons will be
found in the United Statos.
The assembly confirms tho appointmont of the deputy mayor and can
authorize more than one deputy mayor. It can dispense vith the office
of treasurer, transfer the funetions to the office of deputy mayor or
it can increase the nu ber of treasurers if deoned necessary, Articles
161 and 169. It confirms the appointient of the inspection cormissioners,
Article 199. Not only does the assembly have authority to confirm ap-
pointment, but it also sets the rate of comunsation and expense allow-
ance. and in case of a coiplaint it passes cn the issue within twenty
days after the complaint is submitted by tho muyor, Article 206. The
assembly alone by resolution can change the uscre of public property or
establishments vhen a question of old customs and usage is involved.
Likewise, the creating of an ostablishment outside the boundaries of
16

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.97)
the city is an ancenbly prorogative. Articlcs 209-2lle Comol
of citizens on theso matters are finally settled after hemring ba
assembly. Leases and franchises aro likevise granted by the assembly
however, vhen the term is for a period of teu years or more the proposi-
tion must be subnitted to a vote of the citizens. For periods of less
than ton years a vote of tho people is also required unless the lease
or franchise reccives an approval of tvo-thirds of the assembly, Arti-
c1e 213.
Allotted charges (special assensments) can be levied by the assem-
bly but only after public hearings have been held by the assembly or by
a comittee so delegated. Trenty days notice to the public is required
and in case the notice is published in a newopeper the notice must be
repeeted every seven days after the first publication, Article 217.
In cases of energency, disaster or spccial neccssity the assembly
may impose statutory labor end appropriate personal property which can
be computed in terms cf moncy end levied as a city inhabitants' tax.
An appeal can be rede in t is instance for reguler rents and charges.
but again the assombly cecision after review is final, end there is no
appeal to the comts, Articles 218-224. T1e scccmbly is prohibited.
hovever, from using public funds or property for the use, benefit or
maintonance of any religious institution or association, or for any
charitable, educationel or bonevolent onterprise not under the control
of the public euthcrity, Articlo 212, Article 230. Article 231 pro-
vides an exception to ti.is rule, "if it is recessery to do so for the
public interest therecf," Local assemblies now appropriate 10 percent
of the welfare funds spont in the commmity. This money is allocated
to tho various agoncies on the basis of actual need of all institutions.
public or private, Lump sum arpropriations direct to private institu-
tions should not be mmde under Articles 230 and 231. A11 such grants
should be mide to the local welfare agoncies to be administered in
accordance with tne Volfure Ir  repulations.
Normally, contracts vith the city should be let by competitive
bidding. Hovever, the assently is authoriscd in certain cases of
17

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.98)
urgency or. when the cost of the bidding procedure makos i 
to do so, to waive tho roquirement, Article 243.
An audit of the city books is required to be nade onoo each month
and en extraordinary audit is required twice a yoar. At this tino two
members of the assembly must be present and participate. A roport of
this audit must be rado to tlhe assembly. Artiole 240.
Cities havo been staggering under the financial burden imposed by
Articlo 228, vhich provides that the local public body "is bound to pay
its necessary expenses and such expenses as havc hitherto fallen thereon
under laws or ordinancos duly authorized by laws . . ." Lctual oxperi-
onco in the past two years has proved the fallacy of this provision. It
is impossiblo with the present limited sources of locel rovonue to meet
the requirements of thc school law, polico lev, public hoalth law, and
welfare law, just to narne a fer. Not only normal local functions but
national functions as vell have been throm on the shoulders of city
governments in Article 229. While it was believed that the transfer of
the admission tax, the five percent levy on elcohol and the inorease in
local taxes provided for in July 1948 would te adequate to maintain this
burden, it is quite cbvious now that this is not truc. Now that local
loans have beon restricted, the local governnonts aro indeed facing a
crisis. The dosperate resort to contributions, lotterics, horse racing
and now dog racing as a saurco of revenue is a sad spoctaclo. Upon such
foundation a sound lccal covernnent cannot be constructed. Evory effort
must be made to correct the existing situation.
The assembly not only has the right to pass rosolutions and by-laws,
levy local taxes and fees, approve contracts, lct franchiscs or leases.
but it also may inquire into the manner in vhich those policies aro being
carried out by the erpcutive and administrativo branches of the city.
Thus, the chairman of the clection conittee, a rember of tho inspection
commission. a member of tho public safety comiscion, or any other group
or person delogated by the ascembly to perform a function, may be sum-
moned to appear before the assembly and nke a report on the progress
of any matter with which it is concerned. This right is not limited to
18

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.92)
5
rurely local affairs but it is extended to netional effairg vtiah 'eve
been delegated to local officials as provided in Article 99. In addi-
tion to asking for reports of explanations, tho assenbly may issue
written opinions of its om for the guidance of the adninistrative of-
ficors, notwithstanding tho faot that the primary right of supervision
rests with the mayor. Inspectiors can be made by the assembly itself
or the assembly can delegate tho function to tho inspection commissioners
and reccivo thoir report.
The assoiblies today tre not Jinited merely to asking for reports
or explanations fron the city goverment, They now have the autharity
under the new Article 1oo to conduct the ir own invostigation, either
acting as a comittee of the whole, or authorizing a standing or special
comitteo to conduet an invostigatien. This Articlo cmpowers the assem-
bly or its comitteo to suboponn witnosees as previded for in the Code
of Civil Proccdure. Exccpt fer official secrctn or intters determined
to be of a confidential nature, the vitnesses must testify or produce
records as requived, end in cnse of refusal, the assembly or its com-
mittee can file un i lictirnt against the witnens. The subnoena is a
new and poveritul wenpon in the hende of asse: blies. Extrenme discretion
should be used in e mm ction with it. Above cll, tie gubroena should
not be used sirply to go on "fish ing opunitions." It should be based
on definito facts or iscu.
The Public's Duty to the ospll
The sessions of the anee bly are noraally opmed to the public.
This procedure is corm et cad ae it phould bes Whm the citizens of
the city cone to vi the asse.bly in seneion. they muet at all tincs
be able to obeerve that tiy uesenblymuan not ouly kmows what he is doing.
but also that he lan a true interest in discharging his responsibilities.
The public has a rigit to ettnd the sossions. but at the same tine that
the public accopte this right, all the merbers c the public automaticelly
ove an abeolute duty not to dist ub the assemblymen in the process of
their deliberatiors. What coes this fect pean? It means that the assen-
blymen nmust almys bo free to dinchargo thoir duties in an orderly and
rational fashion. Further, it meann that the citizons in the visitors

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
galleries must remain quiet; it means specifically that they only ob-
sorve the processes by which the city's affairs aro conducted. Repre-
sentative govornnent is a series of orderly processes. No interference
with these crderly processes can bo tolerated by anyone, officicls or
citizens.
When the assembly's sescions are disturbed by disorderly acts of
disgruntled citizens, agitators or organized hocklers, instantly the
chairman must rap for order. If he doos not obtain order irwndiately
and tho occasion is in tho slightest degree corious to obstruct govern-
mental functioning, the chaiman under the pover givenin the Chihojichiho.
Article 130. should send for cnd then roquest the police to renove the
offending individual or entire group fron the assenbly chamber.
The Police Low gives the police all the pover that is necessary to
act in such serious cascs. Tho polico, too, should act promptly. They
should not hesitate or veit around. Every effart should be carefully
mado to maintain order in an assembly without closing the session to the
public. Hovever, when the vaintenence of order does becone impossible
because of visitors or of a prearranged plen on the part of individuals
or on the part of minerity croups who are lent or obstructing work of
the assembly end, therefore, orderly govemment, then justification fully
oxists for the cxecution of any erd cll discinlinary neasures as are
ostablished by the lavs. There is no course f action but that the ejec-
tion of these people from the assenbly chaaber should be made imodiatoly.
Denonstrations and rabbic-rousing incidents ure not a part of representa-
tive governnent under any condition. Mess de onetrations inside govern-
montal buildings and officcs, or ovon vorae the foreible ontry into the
asserbly chaiber itcelf, are acts no official of representative govern-
mont can countonarce.
For ascoablynon to sit limply and to submit to such pressure and
enarchism means thnt the majority of loyal citicns und voters who elected
you to carry on or rly covermment have been robbed as a recult of your
eloction. The cheirxn of the asse bly es well as the ombers of the
assenbly itself should be ost fiun in such serious affairs. None ought
20

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.97)
 to yield to agitation or such intinidation by milling or paradin
even outside the buildinga. Real citizens in Japan seekinghrodxasaot
grievances or changes in government have but one course for suah affairs
and oe courso only to pursue. They seek only legitinate means pet
suasion not coercion. The loyal people of gcod government must take up
their ratters with their reprosentatives, who, in turn, will resent the
issues es thoy seo cr understand then to tho propor legislative body.
Certainly, too. they can write to their locel newspapers and explain
their vievs. Moreover, orly rational deliberations in the assembly can
produce the proper course far corrcction.
A cit izenry loyal to good governrent spealks its nind and authority
at the polls vith a ballot, or if not that, then by means of letters,
comunications and interviews vith elected or appointed officials. The
assomblymen are the law makers and they must be ent irely unhapered as
they make the laws.
Assorbly's Rclation with the Mavor
The Chihojichilo providos that all financicl neasurcs or estinates
of budgets ere proposed to the asscnbly by the rayor. Custon and practice
in Japan have dictated tlyt practically all neacures going before the
assombly be proposed by the rayor. The custem end practice need not con-
tinue so rigidly. Articlo 112 of the Law provides that members can in-
troduce their ovn bills. In western democracies this practice is general
and should be gradually devoleped in Jepan. Horever, it is recognized
that wntil a definite source of rovenue is available to cities which is
anmple to carry out noval cperations, the more right to introduco a bill
is, of course. meaningloss. If the money to su port the moasure is not
in the treasury or fortheoning fron positive levy, the by-law will have
little substance. A remodeling of the national tax structure by the Diet
can reredy this evil condition.
Tho provisions of Articlcs 176 to 180, dofining the relationship of
the asscmblios with the mayor: should be thoroughly understood by the
ontire city's covernmont. my resolution ar by-lav. or any amendnent to
or repeal of the sae, unless the subject matter is specifically provided
for in the law, can be vetoed by the mayor or he can causo it to bo
21

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
roconsidored by the assombly. The mayor must specify his peasons and
give notice of his action to the assembly vithin ten days after passage
of the resolution or by-law. The asserbly can honor the veto mossago
or it can refuse it. In refusing the veto the assembly generally repasses
the measure. To overcome the voto a two-thirds vote of the assembly is
required. When the by-law is so repassed, the moasure becones legally
final. The first paragraph of Article 176 contemplates a vide latitude
on the part of the rayor in selecting a reason to veto. Any reason he
deems appropriate is pernissible but he should be rational about it.
Paragraph four of this Article provides for a special veto on the
grounds that tho section is ultra vires, that is, that the action taken
is beyond the legal jurisdiction of the asserbly or that it contravenes
existing laws or regulations. In this latter type of veto in which the
assombly over-rides the mayor's veto, ho may bring an action in court to
test the legal quostion involved. This he should do vithout delay.
Where the resolution or by-law concerns revenue or expenditure of
funds and the mayor considers the action irpossible to exccute, he also
files his veto with the reasons therefor. This provision particularly
applies to resolutions to striko out or reduce expenses or appropriations
for the following purposes: (1) expenses to be paid by laws or ordinances.
expenses ordered to be paid  cathodra by administrative authorities
or expenses required to be paid by local ontitics, (2) expenses necessary
for emorgoncy or recovery facilities caused by energency disasters, or
expenses necessary for the prevention of cpidenics.
Where a resolution involving one of the iteins naned above is re-
passed by the assembly, the meyor can nevertheless order the expenses
paid or arder the appropriation made. The rayor mmy in his discretion
consider repassege of this type of resolution as a vote of non-confidence.
When he takes such a stand he must dissolvo the assembly vithin ten days.
Likevise, whero a formal rosolution of non-confidence is passed by the
assembly he must dissolve the assembly vithin ten days or resign. Whore
the assenbly is dissolved and the nev assembly repasses the original
neasure, then the mayor must resign. On a farral vote of non-confidence,
a threc-fourths vote is required vith two-thirds of tho moibers present.
22

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.97)
It is apparent that the Diet in requiring a theeewfotrtha
tended that the procedure be a real expression of a mmber o
people. Normally the parlianentery prccedure of over-riding the exoou-
tive's veto is sufficient for all issues coning between the oxecutive ant
the assenbly. The vote of non-confidence procedure should only be used
in extrone cases and as a last resort. It is the more porerful prooedure
of tho tvo. It should never be used on trumped-up charges.
It must never bo used unloss the asscnblynon can say frankly and
sincerely. "We cannot decide this issue ourselves. Tho mayor has an
opposite view. Therefore, ve must take this serious issue back to the
taxpayers and votcrs for then to decido by ro-clecting us or other repre-
sentatives!" Administration of local governronts is extremely difficult
today because of lack of finance, scarcity of mterials and other factors
which should be taken into consideration by the assembly at all times.
The taxpayers should not be burdened with oxtra clection exponses caused
by emotional votes of non-confidence every tine a dispute arises between
the mayor and the assenbly. Aside from the consideration of expense in-
volved, the instability of local governments should be considered. The
public will soon lose cor.fidence in their represuntutives and probably
should do so if they develop cach issue into ole election after the other.
Sorious thought should be given to this problem by all assemblies through-
out Japan. not just tho city asscnblics.
Assembly's Relation with the City's Con it toes, Boards and Cormissions
The assembly clects the mmbers of the four-man Elcction Administra-
tion Committee. The assombly must exercise extrere care to select quali-
fied candidates who can dischargo the duties of the office. The work of
the cormittee will bocane increasingly more iapartant. Because the as-
sembly does appoint the Comittee, it can be stated that the assembly
has an indirect rosponsibility for its actions. This responsibility is
noral only; it is not legally so.
Financ ially and adninistratively the assenbly will have relations
not only with the Election Adninistration Comittee but also with a nun-
ber of others, such as the Police Comission. the Board of Education and
other agone ios which are created as part of tho city government to be
23

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
responsible directly to the publio and, hence, not at all like those
committees which are a part of the assembly itself. In many instanoes
the assembly may bo called upon to settle disputes among those agenoies.
Problens of budget drafting for their personnel and their supplios will
nomally arise.. Reciprocal dispatch of reports and communications will
also be normal. The relations should alvays be cooperative and in good
time.
Surmary
The assembly as an organ of city governrent vill and nust become
more and more important, espocially as financial conditions in Japan be-
come better. With better finances nore povers can be exercised by the
assembly for better or varied services to the city. In the neantime,
through exemplary decorum and dignity, the assembly can cormand respect.
Neither dignity nor respect is dependent upon financial or other power.
Assemblymen should be creative and quick to take action for the city's
needs. Many assenblymen in Japan, seemingly for want of else to do.
like the ir distant brothers in other parts of the world, have been con-
tent, far too contont, to attend tho assembly meroly for purposes of
voting thenselves a salary and expense funds. Thoy have contributed
nothing; they have loft no rocord of progress. For such guilty persons,
of course, only recall or a blank ballot should be their revard.
That the Chihojichiho provides that the city by-laws should not con-
travene the Constitution, the lews of the Dict or rrefectural by-laws,
should not be misconstrued to mean thet the assembly has no work of its
own - that the asseibly can pass no by-lavs at all. Many assenblies have
done well thus fer. Many assemblies have passed by-laws on matters of
fishing, sanitation, public safety and policing, fire prevention, health
and welfare. That sore arguront and discussion have arisen about the
validity of sone of the by-laws cannot in any monner whatever be a causo
for discouragenont. The courts and only the courts vill docide the valid-
ity of the by-law after it is passed. Neither bureaucrats. hungry for
keeping control to thensolvos, vhether residing in Tōkyō or locally. nor
the procurators overzealous as sore are, have any legal power whatever
24

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.96)
to docido a by-lav valid or invalid oithor in tho proposal and dr
or aftor onactnont. Evon thoir advico nany tires is faulty.
The asso
himsolf must act. Thc assoblyron should procood in firr: doliboration to
onact propor by-lavs cithor for abolishing and corrocting outmodod and old
issuos or for socuring now, bettor or norc tinoly sorviccs.
In my travols around tho profoctures in Japan I have boon groatly in-
prossod with tho variod sights vhich I have soon. I have boon irprossod
noro than cll clso with tho rico-planting scason - tho planting of rico it-
solf and tho hard working farer and his fanily and frionds who do it. I
an irprossod with tho way the paddy ficld is laid cut. I like to soo tho
hoavy carth and nud cdcos neatly banked to block off and hold tho water to
make roady to roccivo tho littlo groon rico plants. I liko oven noro to
wetch this farier rxasure off the land for tho spacos in which tho groon.
ricc spoars aro to be planted. Ho uses his cauo with great carc. Ho puts
cech littlc rice plant in its oxact pleco with loving caro. Abovc all olso.
I an inprossod with the manner in which tho fan cr surveys his vork when it
is done. how he walks fron ono ccrner of the ficld to tho other to survey
it. how ho stands now and tien to givo it tic one last ceroful casuring
look before he trudgos hanc.rerd. And there it is! Each littlo groen plant
is in lino, row for row, no :attcr low you look at tho fiold. Moroover,
these green little rows above the shallcw water : ake in pattcrn a goonetric
nicety of angles and seuares. Had I never secn the farmor at work but only tho
planted ficld which shovs those planned and caroful results, I would. in
vieving it as I passed clong, bo bound to say in happiness, "This nan knew
oxactly wiy ho did what he did! This an has dono his bost." You assenbly-
mon lmow this fact, too. You asse bly on have vatehed and seon tho plnnt-
ing. Even more than I. st.o of ycu assoiblyen have been a part of this
ferm lifo with its cxactins work. Also you asse blymon know full woll, as
do I, that the abundantly rich harvest is tho far ur's rovard, his right-
ful reward.
So far as tho city is concornod, so fer as the asseibly within it is
concorned, and so far as oach of you assenmblyron is concorned, in tho most
preciselike mnnner - the sare rost careful manner of the farmer's courso -
good govornnont in the Now Japan can bo achieved with careful planning and
action.
July 1949
25

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure#4
D-738
7
R
Yohyo
HEADQUARTERS EIGHTH UNITED STATES ARMY
Civil Affeirs Section
Legel end Government Division
THE LOCAL AUTONOLY PROGR:N FOR THE CITIES OF JAPAN
Paper No. 4.
Municipal Administration
Adninistretion is the heect of the execative brench of government.
The universel use cf che tern anministreli  in municipal government meens
not only the officers and other employees of the city's organization but
also the structure of offices in which all these people perforn their duties.
People can frequently be heard to say, "I think thet the edministration hes
done well this year," or "Kobayashi-Kun belongs to the edministration." In
this case people ere tolking ebout the mayor's policy end the chief assis-
tants. In enother situation, the people ney say, "This city's edministration
is very simply formed," or "What does the edninistretion look like?" In this
situetion they ere talking about the departments, bureaus, sections or units
1
and offices into which the city government is divided.
hile the orgenization of sections end units end office structure of
7
municipal government is inportent, no guarentee in them alone exists that
perfection can be achieved. However good the crganization and structure may
be, the ultinate success of good adninistretion depends upon the officials
end enployees. In city government, as in ell forms of hunan activity, good
results are the factors that count. The nuaber of edministrative officials,
assenbly mer bers, stending conmittees or indenendent conmissions or boerds,
while inportant, are not the imnediate euides to rating or ranking the suc-
cess of the city administration. Factors such as schools, low crime retes,
the decrease of illiteracy, the number of well paved, cleened end lighted
streets, well cleaned street drairs, sidewalks, sanitational systems, well
operated fish stells end vegeteble nerkets, dock arees, a lower death rate
and cultural developments nark good municipal governnent. More then the
mere passage of levs or by-laws hes to be acconplished regulerly to meintain
schools, prevent fires when possible enl fight then when they occur, to ward
off epidenics, to lower a death or diseese rate or to provide a pure water

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
4
supply. All such accomplishments are the produpts of skillful administra-
tion over a period of years. These great services are made pozsible chiefly
by the efficiency end loyelty of tpained techniciens. They depend elso in
part upon the extent of intelligent public cooperation, Indeed, civic minded-
ness is the great life-giving bese to all representative goverpment.
Municipal Policy end the Adminiotretion
The duty or obligation of the city edministretion is to execute end to
give real life to the expressed public policy of municipal effeirs. Whet is
meant by public municipel policy? How is it forned? Through whet steps do
the elected representatives go to produce this public polioy into final work-
eble form? How do the civic minded people end texpeyers see the results for
which they voted?
Simply put and of cardinal importance as the foundetion to representative
government, locel governmental policy or netional governmentel policy, is the
voters' and taxpeyers' expressed wishes and mendates to eccomplish a giyen
objective or goal. Public policy is settled at the ballot box with a ballot -
not with an assissan's bullet or by "a glorious dictator." To everyone it
must be clear that public policy is the citizens' ideas of what they believe
should be done. Their payment of taxes or their raising of special funds is
the means by which whatever they went done, can be done. It is also clear
that public policy begins and is generated by the people. Municipel policy
or nationel policy in representative government is never the conjured dictates
of sone one man, never the wilful arbitrary action of one or two men coupled
with a small "wilful group of little men." Never for certain is it one or a
series of cunning ects of a party of graeping rogues, labeling themselves
to disguise or to mystify busy and unsuspecting voters and taxpayers with
such magnetic titles as: "The Noble Lovers of Freedom Party" or "The Splen-
did Perty for the Peoples' Dictatorship" or "The Great Dictatorship Party of
Government for No Cost to the People" or "The Party for Government of Free
Service to Everyone," or "we are the People Who Have the Only Right Idea
Party."
Municipal policy in representative government is formed in the following
democratic steps:
first. the civic minded citizens in their homes or in

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.97)
9
e
private or public meetings discuss what they went done; for example, some new
act or change in public ssfey, education, senitetion or a reduction of all
city expenditures. In this stage, nct alweys, but generally, these desires
and statements of whet "shouid be done at once by soneone" ere indefinite;
they are not too well shaped: second, these people end other citizens who are
members or executives of politicel parties of the public group which is spon-
soring a candidate for mayor, take up these ideas and plans and put them all
into much nmore meening il form end lenguage. The politicel parties and even
the civic organizations can meke these nore definite statements because in
their executive sessions and general neetings, they have worked out the in-
consistencies and have taken the feesible isues and put them into a practical
status; third, candidates and party menbers put these issues and questions
in practical and final form to the voters, and the elections are held on the
basis of them; and fourih, the public's selaction results in (1) a candidate
being elected nayor, (2) if up for election, as iven in Paper No. 5 of this
City Progran, sone cendidates for the boards, committees or commissions, and
(3) some cendidates for the assenbly.
Municipal policy thus formed is molded in final legel form as jorei by
the elected representetives in a few denocratic steps: first, elthough any
assenblyman CAN and a great meny do so in Englend and especially the United
Stetes, the mayor, because he is the exccutive, usually takes ell these
statenents of policy and hes them introducsd into the esserbly for action,
as for exanple, a bill for public safety or a bill for construction of city
properties; second, the assembly as the true deliberative body, puts the bills
or series of then through its own procedures: (1) the referring of the bills
to the proper stending or special cormittees, (2) the committees' public hear-
ings end discussions, and their final drafting and reporting of the bill back
to the assembly's general session, and (3) the bill's final enactment into a
jurei with the mayor's signature (or repassage over his veto); third, the
placenent through the Office of Mayor of the duties given in the jorei to the
proper section, board or off ce of the edrinistretion which is to have speci-
fic authority to execute the duties in n orderly professional nanner.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
The municipal policy thus in its completed form as a city jorei. the
 voters end texpeyers can see. Moreover, they cen observe for themselves how
the policy is being executed end with what results: (1) watch for chenges in
the section or office as to its revised or new services offered, (2) see daily
the construction or reconstruction of the buildings, bouleverds, docks or
bridges and, (3) read and study the meyor's ennuel report end official re-
leases.
The denocratic formation of the municipal policy and its enactment into
final jorei for the peoples' benefit are the reesons why the adninistration
hes this one solenn duty, and only this one solemn duty, of executing the policy
through the means of the orderly processes and procedures.
What is the exact meening of this principle thet the administretion exe-
cute the provisions of the horitsu and jorei?
What is the meaning of the
phrase, the orderly processes of governnent?
The neaning of the principle is
that the voters have spoken lawfully fcr the achievement of e nemed result and
because of their having done so, thet exect naned result must be secured.
The meaning of the principle can never be that the chief edministrators and
public civil servants can at enytime insert their own idees of ection as sub-
stitutes for those embodied in the voters' policy. The principle's meaning
can never be that the chief edninistrators and public civil servents can alter
the provisions of law or jōrei at their will. If upon solid evidence it is
found that the administrators end civil servants are perverting the voters!
nendates as stated in the provisions of the law, they should be disciplined
adninistratively by the neyor inmediately. If he finds the violations grave,
he should disniss then immediately fron all governnental service because they
certainly are unfit to adrinister the public trust.
The phrase, "the orderly process of government" neans thet voters of the
govarnnent have established in a denocratic and lawful menner, the foundations
or structural framework of offices, the needed legal procedures between of-
fices or officials, the vital machinery end the necessary edninistrative chan-
nels anong offices end persons through which, and only through which, the
governnental powers and funotions can possibly be allowed to flow evenly and
regulerly or cen possibly be adninistered and carried out.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.97)
2
nessing a mighty river which otherwise would rush devastatingly to the sea.
The uncontrolled river would expend its energies uselessly and therefore deny
2
to nan both, on the one hend, power and light for his factories, trains, farms
end home, and on the other the rich and abundent all year round hervests.
The great dam can be neny meters high, many neters thick end many neters
ecross, fron one side of the mountein to the other. The nelting snows end
the reins make this rushing river quickly form a great lake behind the dam.
With good mechanical equipnent end by flexible reguletion, power and light
cèn be genereted. By the proper opening end closing of the water compartments
and getes, a known given volume of water can be utilized properly and econom-
ically by the farmers and others who need it. In government the voters' man-
dates end desires ere, in results, like those of the melting snows and rains.
The orderly processes of government in having policy, laws and jorei flow
through then end enforced through then ere like the great dam having the
pressured volunes of vater go through all its fixtures and equipment. When
the competent section or office of adninistration functions properly as the
compartment or gate in the den allows water to go over the spillwey, a good
municipal progran results for the schools, or the police force acts with
promptness to apprehend the criminals and violators of the lew. As the lake
behind the den builds up higher and higher, the pressure generated against
the dam is terrific. The pressure can be extrenely dengerous. In governnent,
so the denands end urgings of the citizens for immediate ection build trenen-
dous pressures egainst and even within the orderly processes.
On the leke's
edge and in parts of the river dangerous whirlpools and eddiss
develop and
after herd torrents, tonneges of detritus float around and ugly dirty water
is everywhere. In government, too, there are ugly, ulcerous conditions at-
tacking and corroding the orderly processes. Criminels, pressure groups,
end concerted subversive parties loyel to & government other then the one
under which they profess loyalty comit these evil ects. They are bent on
the outright destruction of any and all things which stend in front of their
evil goals that they are directed to attain by eny meens. Sonetines in the
dan the mechinery breaks or stells, end all gates fly open to remain Jenmed.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
9
Hence, uncontrolled volumes of water in terrifying roar to everyone gush
forth all over land, wash away hones and drown people. In government also,
now and then these crininals, pressure groups end subversive elements ceuse
wilful disturbances end provoke riots which break down the orderly processes
monenterily so thet sone citizens end officials are beaten and injured; some
of then frequently are shot or killed. The damage to the dam and hunanity
can result fron no action at all through sheer ignorance of the dam's control
operetors. The damege to governnent can, end nearly alweys does, result from
indecisive, late or stupid ections of weak-willed, compromising or limp offi-
ciels. Just as it is so in the law of neture that the river will in certainty
reech the sea, is it so that the overwhelming najority of people went the
orderly processes of governnent. They do not went snothered, dictated and
stifling order and poace, but they do want order and government which they
can make with others, and in which they can have a part in living with others.
When the dam's nachinery goes wrong end must be changed or repaired, the
engineers do not stay up ell night or neet in mountain yadoya derising cunning
plans to throw bombs or dynenite at the dan or sabotage the rest of it. The
engineers eppraise.
. They get at the ceuses. They reconstruct. Just so in
government, the najority of civic minded citizens end loyal officials seek
out the causes end produce denocratic renedies. They will not allow parties
with cancerous tactics to continue living or attempting to wreck the orderly
processes of gocd covernnent.
Fer ewey from the dam, the nills operate and hones are lighted; inmedi-
ately below the dan, the terraces and paddies yield a harvest. The products
of both the mills and the harvest enrich the owmers, the nearby comnunity and
the country as a whole. The factory owners end the ferners, their families
and friends appreciste the den; they understand its function. They are in-
pressed by its enormousness. They kmow that its equipnent cen be operated
properly by schedule. They know that the results of orderly operation are
beneficial. None of then, however, will ever stand in awe of the der. All are
thankful that nan with his engineering and architeeture has triunphed.
For
the orderly processes of governnent the citizenst same epprecietion is true.
The sene understanding is true. The sene inprossiveness with governnent's

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
enornousness is true. Moreover, none of the citizens need stand in we of
governnent. They all know that governnent is man nade. Moreover, they ell
know that an honest, loyel and intelligent officialdon will always execute
and adninister the municipal policy for the benefit of the conmunity.
The Adninistration's Impression en the Public
In a major degree the citizens make their judgnent of the city govern-
nent by the cheracter end menner in which the officiels end employees greet
then in daily business. This fact in gorernnent is of great inportance.
There has been en ever increesing and direct attention paid to the selection
of officials and employees and to their conduct not only by the candidates
for nayors or assenblynen but slso by the voters thenselves. They desire
more efficient, less costly and nore courteous ecconplishnent of municipal
affairs. As a group the putlic servants are called the bureaucracy. As in-
dividuals they are called hereeiorats.
Because of their contact or association day by day with the public, the
officials and public servants are the people of whom the voters and texpayers
think first when the question is asked, "Is your city good or bad?" Taken
as a group these officiels and enployees are the ones who impress the citizen
more then the mayor or the assenblyman year in end year out. Who are these
officials end employees?
They are not the chiefs or policy heads of bureaus,
departments or sections, because these persons the public rarely sees. They
are the officiels in the verious offices to whon all kinds of bills are paid,
especielly, the tax collectors and the registration officials who es a class
have long been called the "white collar group." They are also the policenen
in the keisatsusht or koban, the firemen in the shoboshy and the officials or
employees in the city ovned utility, whether it is the power end light plant,
the gas works, the transportation systen or water works. These ere the public
servants who rub shoulders with the public daily. The actions, nanners or
courtesies shown or not shown by these public officials and civil servants,
politically fortunete or unfortunate for the meyor end the assenblynan, have
lasting effects on the citizen who lives within the city end on the visitor
end stranger who cone f on without.
7

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
For many years the terns, bureancracy end bureaucrats when used, heve
not neant anything fevorable. They are not terms used to convey a compliment.
The unpleasent general neaning in Jepan has arisen because many bureaucrats
over the years have been eustere, uncorrnnicative and haughty persons: they
have nanaged to secure positions and to renein in them. These bureaucrats
have ceused the pullic disconfiture. These bureeucrats are the people who
when challenged for improper acts always menage to shunt the responsibility
on sone other person. This stigma to the tern bureaucrat is rightfully de-
served by these people. Unfortunately this stiema has been loosely trens-
ferred over end applied to greater nuiber of bureaucrats and to good adnini-
strators also. Therefore, it is easily seen that the decorun and conduct
of these officials and enployees of the city must at all times be beyond re-
proach. That this task is nost difficult goes without saying. In the United
States, England and Australia, this factor has been partially solved by in-
stitutes and associations of civil servants which seek to raise the status of
members in the conmunity by inculcating the principle that service to the
public is the highest idea of the public official.
Specific Services of the Aaninistration
It is clear from what has been stated thus far that in representative
governnent the elected officials serve to carry out the popular wishes. The
elected officials, therefore, have the duty of executing responsibilities
which generate fron and change with public policy.
. The foundations of representative govermment support not only the general
roons in which these political responsibilites are exercised but also a par-
ticular series of roons in which adninistrative responsibilities are carried
out. This series of rooms is constructed in such a menner that the factor
of stability can be maintained by the civil servants.
Thus, the first great
service of administration in the orderly processes of government is supplying
staff and organizational stability. The adninistration performs the work
which elected officials are not fitted to perform, do not have time to perform
and are not inclined to perforn if they did have time.
The adninistralion contributes the service of stability because it is
pernanent. It is permanent in the sense that it does not change materially
8

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
a
from one election to another as is the general cese for mayors, asemt
and other elected officials. The great body of civil servants remains tot
gether year in end yeer out. The changes which do take place within it a
caused by the exceptional "shake-up" in organization every so often, and the
nornal:factors of discipline, resignation, sickmess or death.
The second service furnished by adninistration is continuity of polioy
and operation. The service of continuity must be furnished somewhere in any
governnent to insure its functioning regulerly. The administration records
the city's effeirs, function by function, year by year. Moreover, this re-
cording of "what goes on" is as much an oral and personal affair as it is a
written end documentary natter. These public servents in their workaday
duties live with somewhet the same procedures and practices. Innovations
end new changes ere, of course, brought forth. The public servants invent
things thenselves. The officirls work with laws, by-laws and rules day by
dey. They are thus the source for regular infornetion for ell inconing elec-
ted or appointed persons.
A third service made by the adrinistration is its daily performence with
professional and technical ability. The great percentage of the public serv-
ents are people with ability; they are trained end have experience in perticu-
lar work. For example, on exenination of the egriculturel offices, the agri-
culturel officials are found with their speciel knowledge end experience in
aninel husbendry, in soils end chenistry of the soils, or in ground end tree
crops. In the public hoalth office a person should not be found posine es a
health technician who hed spent all his former life selling whiskey end sake.
He would be ept to be too enthusiastic ebout giving edvice to people of deli-
cate constitutions on the use of alcohol.
Within the administretion, of course, there is the usual percentege of
people who do little. They stacnate in position. A sinilar percentage of
incompetent people exists in ell organizations cf any size. Therefore, ad-
ninistration cannot bo singled out elone for sherp criticisn any more than
any other orgenization. Thet this fect exists, hovever, is never an excuse
for the neyor as the law now reacs, or personnel euthority es the law should
read, not to weed out incompetent persons. Neither is this sane fact an exouse

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
for the neyor, who now exercises the power of. personnel, not to replace the
incorpetents regularly with people of ability. It is a vital principle of
adninistration that noney should be spent only on the purpose for which the
elected representatives allocated it. Retaining of inconpetent or negligent
officers for compassionate reasons is diverting money to relief and welfere
7
purposes. This type of diversion should not take place because this alloce-
tion of funds hes been voted for the technical work of governnent.
Representative governnent is dynenic. Its entire fabric is nade of
people, end people are not nachines. People end conditions change; so does
tovernnent itself. Too few people understend how much governnent ought to
change. Representetive governnent requires the politicel services of poli-
ticians end political parties to keep abreast of these fast moving social and
industrial actions. In the same degree of necessity, representative govern-
nent has to have the professional services of good adninistrators and officials
trained scientifically end technically to execute the public's action as ex-
pressed in laws or codes. These two groups - the elected representatives end
the civil servants - harnonize the continuing actions and reactions of the
municipality for the benefit of the
cornunity.
General Principles of Organization
All the city adninistrations of Japen whether in large cities or smell
cities need some typo of uniforn rules to be epplied when people enter the
public service, when they renain in it and, for sone reason, when they leave
it. Sone forn of the mcrit systern in each municipality should be in operation.
A law passed by the Diet could establish the ninirun requirements for a good
merit systen for all cities. Whether or not an independent separate agency,
or a separate office in the adrinistration publicly charged to adrinister the
merit systen of minirnum requirenents, would be needed instead of having this
function centered in the Offico of Meyor, is a matter to be decided nore on a
scientific basis than on a political one. A merit system cannot function as
a merit systen should uner political control. In fact, the municipel merit
systen and whatever the authority for administering it, should be renoved as
far as possible fron politics and political maneuverings. Such non-political
factors include (1) the variety of functions end services the people desire
10

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
the municipality to perfom, (2) financial resources end support sor sachss
of these functions and services, (3) the city's total population, end f)
the city's territory end area.
The elenents of a simple yet workable and practical municipal nerit sys-
ten must be defined in the law end irplenenting regulations, or by the authori-
ty duly created to adninister it, in clear, precise language; the system must
include the elenents cf: (1) a classification systen for all the positions in
the municipelity with fixed edecuate salary or pay scales for each class; no
ungraded positions should be left, (2) specified, enumerated entrance quali-
fications for each class, (3) a positive systen of recruitnent within the
administration as well as without for each class, followed by competitive
exaninations and personel interviews pointed to eveluete the candidate's
knowledge and use of the speci ied qualifications for the position to be
filled, (4) a specified prcbationary period for new entrants, the conditions
of which can be thoroughly nade plain to the candidate, (5) a definite pro-
cedure for advancenent in salery and position by a nethod of efficiency de-
ternination through proper training, safety factors, health factors, welfare
factors, recreation, erployee eveluation end employee utilization, (6) pro-
tection fron discrinination or disnissal beceuse of "triviel, personel, re-
ligious, racial, political or other arbitrary or extraneous reasons," (7) well
defined procedures for discipline and disnissel in terns of an established
and known mininu: stendard of performance, and (8) a workable system for re-
tirenen with sdequate, specified pay ranges.
Some cities in the United States have nunicipal nerit systems which in-
corporate ell these well knovm elenents. Sone cities for reesons of their
own have procrastinated and legged behind in enecting good nunicipel civil
service regulations.
In the United States cities of large size, beceuse of lerge nunbers of
civil servents end erployoes, there exists the definite opportunity to utilize
in full tine a separate personnel authority staffed with persons professionelly
trained in personnel monagenent.
In the United States a large and growing
number of nunicipelitios werren  ng oniy a snell grcup or steff of adninistra-
tors and officials with experien e in personnel relations, have placed the
11

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
edninistration of tho merit systen out of direct politicel control under a
personnel office which secures advice for personnel nenagement from their
municipal league which they, thenselves, control es a professional organiza-
tion in public edninistretion. The cities therselves make up the league.
When a city needs personnel assistance, the personnel office gets it from a
professionel treined and experienced staff.
In Australia there is a legal contrectuel relationship between the
Municipal Officers Assccietion and the Municipal Associetion which is an or-
genization corparable with the City, Town end Villege Association in Japan.
It broedly incorporates these aght elenents. Another edvantage of this sys-
tem is its uniformity so that a brilliant end aibitious officer is not hendi-
capped beceuse he cormenced work in a srall runicipel office.
In the United States e. bipartisan city civil service conmission with
either three of five cornissioners is the systen nost widely used. The very-
ing methods of electing or eppointing the connissioners ere discussed in
Paper No.  of this series. The cornissioners have over-lapping terns of
office to secure continuity of policy end to prevent political tinkering
fron one mayor's election to another mayor's election. The commissioners
have euthority, they kaew their euthority and they use it.
The New York City Municipal Civil Service Connission consists of three
nenbers appointed by the mayor for six year terns until a successor is ap-
pointed and quelified. Not nore than two menbers can be fron one political
perty. The neyor has the power to renove a connissioner for cause after
public hearing. Appointnent to the vacency is for the unexpired term. The
State of New York Civil Service Conmission also has the power to renove any
Municipal Connissioner but cen only do so on charges after a hearing, by unan-
inous vote, end the overnor's written approval. The Municipal Conmission
has a secretary, a director of the exenining division, a cheirman, an adnini-
strative assistant, a cornittee on laws and rules, end seven bureaus as follows:
Certification, Exaninin  Service, Fiscal, Inforration end Record, Investica-
tion, Payroll and Service Rating. Moreover, the budget for New York City for
the fiscal year 1947-1948 providea for 157,419 positions of which 42,596 were
full-tine teechers, 19, 801 were in the Police Department, 12, 935 in the Sani-

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.98)
tation Department, 6, 757 in the Welfere Departnent end 2, 691 were in the
Department of Water Supply, Ges end Electricity.
In the United States. the municipel nerit systens generally in use have
four classificeticns for the positions. First is a snell clessification
reserved for the major office chiefs. This classificetion is fixed upon
the principle that if the chief executive is held responsible personally
for adninistretion, he must be ellowei to choose at least the first level
of executive subordinates. The meyor cen say, "I will best carry out ny
duties with the staff of persons whon I know." This is connon sense as well
as good nanegement. Second is a clessificetion relatively small which is
nornally called "the non-competitive cless," end reserved for the few posi-
tions requiring personnel who are specialized end possess adninistrative or
technicel ability. The persornel authority selects these people by means
of speciel reconnendations, long interviews and evaluations of the candidates'
forner successful experiences. Nornal exaninations for selecting persons of
these qualificetions would be inedequate. Third is the classification for
conpetitive positions vhich are filled by neans of the personnel passing
quelifying exaninations end having personal interviews. This class is the
large seni-technicel end clericel class. It is not composed of highly
trained technicians or people vith great professional ability end experi-
ences. Fourth is the classificetion reserved for skilled and unskilled labor.
Here, elthough competitive examinations are not required, personal history
qualifications end physical tests must be net by each enployee.
On the basis of the position or job descriptions within the classifi-
cations as to what duties are required, the officiel's or enployee's salery
or wage is deternined. In the United States, enong the 200 lergest cities,
sharp varietions for saleries exist enong particuler positions. However,
the salary group renges es a whole for most municipelities are epproxinately
the seme; particularly is this so in regional arees composed of a number of
states.
In the municipel nort systen, standards shonid be exacting and quali-
ficetions high. Such go d anaerds cannot be naintained without conpen-
sating factors, not ll cf i ill be found in salaries. However, seleries

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
in Jepan of municipel officiels end erployees are at present so fer below
those of the average private businesses that sufficient cepable personnel
ere most difficult to ettract even when there are no civil service exemina-
2
tions and though required quelifications are low. The impoverished state
of municipel finence today in Japan dces not permit the municipality to com-
pete with the salery reages of commercial firms as it ought to be able to do.
Selaries eguivalent to those vithin the city's region, enforced selection
and weeding out processes and good morele factors meke for real insureace
against waste end inefficiency in municipal governnent. At present in many
cities in Japen, firm measures es a meens of curbing breaches of discipline
are tempered somewhat because of the unavailability of suitable replacements.
Hence, cities contemplating the esteblishment of a truly effective system
of civil service when they are financirlly more able, should consider es a.
prerequisite the best salay stendards possible to attract the ablest citi-
zens in the community and nearby region.
From the point of view of public administration end personnel manage-
ment, the public generally clpssifies personnel into two groups. The first
group is composed of the planning end policy officials. This is normally
small in numbers and small in ratio to the second group. The plenning end
policy groups pre given derogatory nickmemes frequently by the press and
others es "red tape spinners," "desk crouchers," "desk plenners" end the
"signature boys." At times because of particuler actions these "pen pushers"
deserve this type of caistic criticism. Generally they do not deserve this
stiema. This group normelly provides the plens end supervises their execu-
tion either directly or indirectly through inspection. The second group is
the very large number who actuelly carry out the particuler function and
execute the duties day by dey. These are the officials and employees who
meet the public daily.
 These are the public servants to whom attention was
directed earlier in this paper. These persons also rightly or wrongly get
their share of nickmmes.
they ere called the "wood butchers," end "the
payment pounders," "the wronch throwers." "the pick and shovel boys" and
"the field generals i Ho ever, the pubiie should kmow before it brands the
administratron. Proper coorainction, through instructions being sent and

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
reporting of the city's problems as they arise, cen keep the meyor from be
ing embarrassed both publicly end within the offices, as well as protect the
administration from public censure.
Careers es goals in the public service ere not only desired.but are also
followed by hundreds of thousands of quelified persons. The merit system
must be constructed to provide ell people with an equel opportunity to serve
in public office on their denonstrated abilities whenever the position exists.
The merit system must provide the correct incentives and advantages if people
of ability and high character are to meke the field of public administration
their career. Moreover, the fact that some people can and do make careers
in municipal governnent is of great benefit to society as a whole, not just
to the city concerned. Of great importance to the whcle merit systen also
is the fector of morale, Conditicns must be so arranged in the public serv-
ice thet a position of high ncrale can be maintained. Continuing leadership
within the adninistretion has to be available. Armies or units of ermies
upon the field of battle are by no neens the only lerge or small organiza-
tions dependent upon leaders and high morale. The city administration as a
whole must have then. So must the various offices, departnents, sections
and their component parts. As compered to the municipal officiel affairs,
those on the bettlefield are certainly more draratic; they necessitate great
decisions by officers in short, cramped intervels of time; they can and have
turned courses of history. The official effairs of the workaday world of
the public servant are not dramatic but they can be pleasant for ali. They
necessitate a continuing series of decisions which nust be given in varying
spaces of tine, sometines after deliberation, sometimes "off the cuff."
They too can be monentous; they can turn a costly, incompetent and cold
nunicipal adninistration into en efficient, well balenced city governnent.
However, to echieve this, leaders end leedership nust be there. There nust
exist within the administration a living potential to supply leaders and
leadership. There nust certeinly exist within the citizenry likewise, a
living potentiel to be everlasiingly vigilant to keep the whole of edmini-
stration fruitful end proeresciv.
15

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
Structural Factors of Adninistration
When the elected representetives of the city governrient decide how many
functions and services and which ones will be performed, the problem arisee
autonatically as to the nanner and neans by which they can be carried out.
There must be some prectical end economicel arrangenent of the administra-
tion's offices and divisions. Thare must be some logic and a purpose to the
arrangement. The arrangenent is the mechanicel elenent of the adninistretion.
While the arrangenent is nechenical, its planning cennot be passed over light-
ly. Its structure requires that continuing and the nost careful thought be
put upon it.
The greatest nunber of municipal administrations in all the western
countries shows the arrengement to be on a functional basis. The effort is
constantly made to keep the performence of the function within the specific
office or division determined for it. This is not en easy matter to keep
under control. In the execution of a given function, other functions emerge
fron it and still other functions are related to it.
Without cere end pre-
cision in arrengerent, overlepping functions develop. They are always cost-
ly; they are for most of the personnel the source of confusion and jealousy.
Examples of a function with such offshoots of other end related funations
can be found in: (1) the finance departnent which if set up as e complete
function could include (a) taxetion, (b) other revenue producers, (c) bonds,
(d) the budget, (e) purchasing, (f) disbursement, (g) insurence, (h) auditing;
and (2) a public safety departnent which could inelude (a) police, (b) fire.
and (c) sanitation. It is obvious in both of these examples that while the
sub-divisions ere functionally related, at the sane tine some are function-
ally different enough to be singled out. They should be adninistered in par-
ticuler divisions end channels of their own. In Australia end in neny cities
in the United States the function of euditing is separated fron the general
administration.
Following the decision thet the arrangement of services will be upon
functional lines, there is next the specific task of organizing not only the
total nunber of divisions or offices within the administration but elso the
total number of levels of puthority which will operate it.
The nathenatics
16

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
for arriving at the solution to the nunber of levels of authority p
to some bureaucrats' desires, need not involve georetric progressionm 
number of levels should be kept few and the channel of authority within ths
division, as well as fron the division to the Office of Mayor, should be
direct and clear. The divisions of the adninistration may be called bureaus
or departments; these may be divided into sections, these into sub-sections
and these further into branches. Thus it is that a hierarchy of authority
has been created naturally and eutonaticelly; the branch chiefs report to
the sub-section chief and the sub-section chiefs to the section chief. and
these finally report to the department chief. The department chiefs. as the
highest in the adninistration, constitute the meyor's first level of execu-.....
tive subordinates; hence, they consult with end take direction personally
fron the mayor. The hierarchy of authority must be friendly and clear to
ell, not aloof and nystical.
A fourth end final decision to be nade by the city governnent in deter-
nining the structure of the administration concerns the nunber of officials
to control the departrent or office. Will the number be just one person or
several persons?
In addition to the four reasons given in Paper No. 5 of
this series for several persons by the establishnent of conmittees, conmis-
sions and boards to adninister certain functions insteed of just one person.
there is another significant reason which cones directly fron a principle
of public administration end personnel managenent. The principle is stated:
When the function to be administered is of a quasi-judicial or deliberative
cheracter, divided responsibility or group decision cen best be utilized.
Sone functions by their very nature can be executed in a more practical and
useful nanner by a plural suthority. Orders of the office are arrived at
more judiciously by e plurel euthority than by an egency of one person. Ad-
ministrators and officiels with long public experience state that for such
a particuler function and for the decisions naking the orders to execute it
"the balanced judenent of three or nore qualified persons" must be used.
This principle can re stated fron the opposite point of view: When
the function to be exocated is pirely adninistrative - that is, quite opera-
tional in character - or at l ast nore adninistrative than deliberative in
nature, undivided responsibility or single conrand or a single body can best

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
be utilized. This neans the t the poliey or the decision making and the es
sential course for action have been deternined somewhat in advance. Also it
means that the execution is charactorized by straight supervision or direc-
tion. At the same time, however, this does not mean that the single conmand
does not have the power of discretion to use as he administers the function.
Thus it is that decisions for. the order to execute a non-deliberative func-
tion are arrived at more judiciously by one person rather than three or more.
Arising from this comes the modern doctrine of individual responsibility
of a public servant for his own executive actions. In most countries this
is in force only on the higher levels but the idea is gradually being applied
lower down. Institutes of public administration have done much to propagate
this.
Municipal Organization in Japan
The executive authority of the city in Jepan either supervises or co-
ordinates all the offices of the administration, the independent committees,
commissions and boards and Office of the City Treasurer. In order to observe
how the city "keeps house" for the citizenry, the executive branch will be
shown and discussed in its three essential parts.
1.
The Office of Mayor. The major functions of this Office are given in
Paper No. 3 of this series. Discussion here is ontirely on the coordinetive
and supervisory manner in which the mayor directs the city administration.
The mayor of the city must devote his full time to policy issues: (1)
the overall policy for the municipality es determined by the electorate at
the ballot box, (2) the divisions of thet policy as expressed legally in
jorei and resolutions, and (3) the implementing policy and plans which the
mayor himself establishes to execute the jurei and resolutions. His imple-
menting plans and policies must be goered within the city's overall policy
and the specific requircments of the laws and jurei.
Therefore, the carry-
ing of this policy respcnsibility is difficult and it requires long, busy
hours outside the business day. On specific occasions, results caused by
the execution of particular policies will develop in the city that will make
the mayor alter his implementing plens end take a new course of action.
The
mayor through prompt edvice from his executive subordinates will know how
his plans are working out. Thus the mayor can foresee the development of

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
ped-or poor results. He will, of course, chenge his course of ection to
prevent the errors from occurring. To be eble to do this amoothly requitom
a flexible policy with which to stert.
The sefer principle elweye
which the Office of Mayor should be guided is: "Eveluate conditions care
fully beforehend and thus prevent improvidence." The other principle.
"Eliminete all those who oppose, " has certein merits to it but, even with
these, the principle is limited. Should the meyor practice this principle
too freely, he will find that the number of those whom he has eliminated
will soon grow in sufficiency so that he himself will be eliminated!
Certain euthority for the disposition of particuler affeirs should be
lodged with the assistant meyors. The competency of the assistent mayors
can best be mede clear to sll by heving it set forward in the city's by-laws.
The degree to which end the affeirs in which the assistant meyors assume
the actual powers of the meyor, ought to be defined end enumerated in writing.
Some cities have accomplished this necessity elready. In other cities the
mayors on this matter heve acted only edministratively within their office.
Although this latter practice is not as finished a piece of executive work
es the former, it is better then the prectice yet found in which only oral
delegations end instructions oxist between the mryor end the assistent mayors.
Article 152 and Article 153 of the Chihojichiho provide the authority for
the city government to define the assistent mayor's duties. Articles 122.
127, 130 end 133 of the Cebinet Order also relate to the assistent nayors
assuming the meyor's duties.
The essistent meyors should make the decisions on the defined delegations
and be held responsible for them. The duty of such important officers is to
assume most of the executive responsibilities for the finel action on the
city governnent's affairs. Assistant meyors cennot be mere executive ad-
visors; they must be evaluators and seloctors in exercising their executive
authority. Their duty is to select and to give only the more important papers
to the mayor for his personal attention and decision.
Moreover, when the assis'ent mayors make their decisions, the nayor should
give them his support.
ee is the ebsolute presumption that when the mayor
appoints the assistan: mayo:s: he cen state at all times, "I appointed this
19

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.98)
men or woman. He or she has made a decision within the city's policy. s
an executive subordinate of nine, I will take the consequences of that de-
cision." The assistant mayors will; in their deily course of business, re-
2
ceive natters of detail. They too, however, cannot be bound down by this
detail. They should always insist that bureau, department or section chiefs
bring then completed studies or reconnendations for specific things to be
done. They should insist that the studies show that the chief with his staff
has solved the natters to the best of his ability and that he has pointed out
alternative courses of action with specific edvantages and disadvantages for
following each. The assistant mayors should make it clear to the kyokucha,
buchō and kachō that half finished work cannot be accepted. The top execu-
tive level cannot be performing what the lower level is bound and paid to
oxplore and recormend. The assistant meyors should maintein a working re-
lationship with the bucho nd kachā in which the latter officials have made
their own decisions upon the normal host of details and disposed of all but
the more important.
By the regular exercise of such coordination end supervision in the
daily nenagement of the city's affeirs with the administration, the Office
of Meyor actually is the significent function which the law creetes it to be.
2.
Central Adninistration of the Municipal Government.
The central adninis-
trative divisions and offices underwent little structural changes by the en-
actnent of the Chihojichiho. However, meny cities have made progressive re-
organizations of their own in terms of the increased activity of city effeirs.
Offices and divisions have been rearranged. With the exception of lew en-
forcerent, which is edninistered by the Public Safety Conmission end does not
come under the jurisdiction of the orthodox series of city offices, end ed-
ucetion, which is supervised and controlled in some cities by the Boerd of
Education and should eventually be placed in local school boards in all cities,
Jepanese municipal adninistretion is charged with executing the duties pre-
scribed in laws and the functions and services enunerated in Article 2 of the
Chiho,jichiho.
Article 158 of the Chihojichiho stetes that the nayor cen create under
authority of by-lew eny necessary divisions or sections for the purpose of

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.98)
allotting the affairs which fall within his powers. Although the munber and
types of bureaus, departments and sections differ widely among the Jepanese
cities according to the size, financiel position and needs of each city.
similar nemes for most of them exist in comnon enong many cities. This simi-
larity results in pert from the functions delegated to the municipalities by
national laws or cebinet orders. Therefore, there will be found usually:
(1) A Generel Affeirs Section, responsible for persomal matters,
coliection of statistics, custoiy of orficial docunents, end often for the
compilation of the budget;
(2) A Census Section, which collects populetion statistics in accor-
dence with the Census Lew;
(3) A section deeling with the levy end collection of local texes in
eccordence with netional tex laws and Article 2?6 of the Chihojichiho. Types
end rates of surtexes of prefectural texes end so-celled "independent taxes"
are prescribed by city by-law in accordence with the Local Finance Law which
defines the present narrow and cremped scope of the municipal tax power. Ad-
ditional finencial functions are also provided in Article 217 empowering the
city to collect certein ellotted charges, in Article 226 euthorizing locel
bond issues in accordance with the law, end in Article 243 on competitive
bidding when disposing of city preperty or letting municipel contracts;
(4) A section on cormerce and industry, hendling among other things,
rationing of conmodities in criticel supply according to the provisions of
the Temporery Supply end Denand Adjustnent Lew;
(5) A Water Service Section, to insure an adequate and sanitary water
supply to the conmunity. In nost cases the water system is a municipally-
owned enterpriso requiring the services of a lerge number of technical as well
as administrative employees;
(6) A section entrusted with rationing of foodstuffs, even though
actual distribution lies in the hends of governnent corporetions;
(7) A city planning section, to adninister the City Planning Law and
city by-laws. City pianring his beon and ought to be increased in scope be-
cause of the extensive damage to irge industrial conters during the war;
21

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
(8) À section devote to the i. provenent of egriculture, drainags
and irrigetion systems. This section is a prine requisite in elmost all
cities, beceuse all aveilable agricultural lend within municipel boundaries
must be utilized to the maxirum in the light of the present food situation;
(9) A spociel section devoted to rehabilitation in plece of the usual
public works section, because some cities were as much as 80% to 90% destroyed
during the wer;
(10) A Lebor Section in sone municipalities, established to emphasize
the increased role of good labor relations enong its employees. It is en-
tirely separate from the Generel Affairs Section, es it deals with employee
benefits, enployee welfere essocietions, personal loans for marriage or hos-
pital expenses;
(11) A Senitation Section, adninistering such laws as the Conmunicable
Disease Prevention Law, Tuberculosis Prevention Lew, National Health Law, end
many others; and
(12) A Welfere ection to edninister such nationel legisletion es the
Child Welfare Lew, the Social Enterprise Law, the Daily Life Protection Law,
and the law prescribing the activities of the Minsci Iin, as well as the local
social welfare by-lews.
Sections dealing with educetion in nany cities remain a necessity until
the establishment of city boards of education. In the United States decen-
tralization of educetion to the local boerds includes ownership of properties
and separate taxation, es well as the responsibility for school administration.
Education is completely in the hends of the local school boerds in America.
Most municipal by-lews provide only the skeleton of municipal government
structure, nerely stipuleting the neres of the executive departments and their
principal functions. It is essential thet the executive brench maintain a
wide degree of initiative and discretion in enforcing legislation. Undue
interference in the city adrinistration ties the hends of the executive and
results in conflicts in edninistrative euthority.
The City of Matsumoto, Nageno-ken, hes & population of 85, 681. The total
nunber of adninistrative personnel is 377. The city's centrel adninistrative
structure is given as follovs:

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.94)
Section
Brench
Functions Performed
(1) Gencrel Affeirs
(c) Genorel 'ffrirs.......Generel cnd personnel effeirs.
(b) Licison.
.Linison sffrirs.
(c) Documents.
.Documents nd ordinances.
(a) Registrer...........
.Registration.
(e) Civil ffrirs.......
.Distribution of goods, resi-
dents books. Supervision
of the five brenches of
city : dministrstion.
(2) Finance
(n) Trxetion )
(Toxrtion and clerrence
(b) djustrent)..
of
(c) Lrnd
arrearege.
(d) Estirates........
(e) Property Irnogenent.....Managing property of city.
(3) ccounts
(-) Cashior
..Pryment to public.
(b) Pay.ents.
.Pryront for erployees.
(c) Purchasing........
.Purchasing goods for office.
(4) Development
(a) Plenning.
Planning for civic promotion.
(b) Comerce & Industry...Instruction for cormerce and
industry.
(c) Str tistics............Statistics.
(5) Education nd
() Gener-l ffrirs.......Gencrel affrirs of schools.
Culture
(b) Educrtion....School-educntion.
(c) Socirl Educ tion......Socirl educntion nd culture.
Korinkan I, II......Civic  uditoriun.
Libr ry
Huseur
CIE Recding Room
(d) Physicrl Culturc......Gonerol advice on physicr1
B-sebr1l grounds
culture of citizens.
Srimming pool
Tennis court
(6) Welfore
(r) clfre of Citizens...Telfre for citizens.
(b) esidencc......esidence for citizens.
(c) Tolfere Leborers......elf re for workers.
funiciprl Houses....Houscs for citizons built nd
monnged by city office.
huricipol Prwn......Pown shop for citizons monoged
Shop
by city office.
(7) Sonitrtion
() Herlth..Gonerel for section.
(b) Prevention.........
.Prevention for disrster.
(c) Clerming..
.Cle ning "or city.
Public Snitction
Hell
Slrug tor House
Dirt Disposirg Plont
Funerel Fouse
(8) Agriculture
() gricultureo.......... gricultur I products, quote.
(b) Ir.struction.........
Irstruction for improveronts.
(9) Engineering
(:) Gener1 f irs.......Rogistr tion of houses and
lnds.
(b) Parnring
City building plon.
(a) er ar
p iring.
23

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.97)
Section
Branch
Functions Performed.
(10) Water Sorvice
(a)
General Affairs..... Estimates and materials.
(n)
Bueiness.
Water-service fee.
Construction and repairing
for water supply.
(11) Sight-Seeing
(a) Sight-Seeing........ All for sight-seeing.
(12) Womon and Child (a)
Women's affairs, general
Welfare
Wonon's Consulta-
cultural development plan-
tion Conter
ning.
(b) Chili Welfare....... Welfare of children.
Mother and Children
House.
In addition to the officos givon above, the City of Matsumoto has the
following additional agencies:
(1) City Assembly Office..
..(a) General Affairs Section
(b) Proceedings Section
(2) Auditing Committee's Room
(3) Election Administration Committee
(4) Farm Lands Committee
(5) Public Safety Commiesion.........
.(a) Matsumoto Police Station
(b) Matsumoto Fire-Brigade Station
(6) The Civic Promotion Conferonce......(a) Finance
(b) Welfere
(c) City Planning
(a) Agcicuisural Products
(e) Commerse and Industry
(r) Culture and Education
The administrative organization of the city is, thorefore, simple and
direct. It can be easily understood by the citizens, which fact is a favor
able attribute in itself for a municipal administration to possess.
The following examples show the variations in the number and types of
bureaus, departments, sections and branches through which the city's affairs
are administered:
1. Tho City of Miyakonajo, Mivazaki-ken, has a population of
34,008 and an adainistrative persenmel tosal ct C4s. Its central adminis.
tration is organized into eleven sections; (i) General Affairs, (2)
Registration, (z) Accounts. (4) Commorco and Industry, (5) Taxation,
(6)Wolfare. (7) Agriculiur, (8) Statistics, (9) Education, (1C)
Health, and (1l) Constuction.
2. The City of Kochiwargki, Niirata-ken, has a population of
35, 963 and its central ada mistrat on orsaac into rine sections:
(1) General Affaire, (a) Wx Arta ru. () c Welfare, (4) House Reg-
istration, (5) Tacation, (c) Scononics. (7) Civil Engineering and Water
Works, (G) Gas, (9) Finance, with one special section, Recovery Council
Meeting Room.
24

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.98)
3. The City of Miyako, Iwate-ken, has a population of ST s and
its central administration organized into twelve sections: (1) Sebrv
(11) Investigation, and (i2) Civil Engineering.
4. The City of Sendei, Kogoshine-ken, has a population of 41. O2a
and its central adninistration organized into three departments: (1) General
Affeirs Department, with seven secticns: (a) General Affeirs, (b) Planning.
(c) Registration, (a) Texetion, (e) Welfere, (f) School, end (g) Social Md-
ucation; (2) Econonies Depertment, with four sections: (a) Mining Products.
(b) Livestock, (c) Cultivated Lends, end (d) Commerce and Industry; (3) Con-
struction Depertment, with three sectiors: (a) Public Works, (b) Construction,
end (c) Planning. The personnel totsl for the City's edninistration is 219.
5. The City of Noshiro, Akita-ken, has a population of 47, 339 and
an edministrative personnel total of 2y. Its centrel edministration is or-
ganized into eight sections: (1) Generel Affairs, (2) Public Welfare, (3)
Education Affeirs, (4) Industry and Economics. (5) Finance, (6) Tax Affeirs.
(7) Civil Engineering, (8) Peace Freservetion: with two speciel sections:
(1) Investigation, and (2) Temporery Rehabilitation.
6. The City of Yatsushiro, Kunanoto-ken, has a populetion of 50, 737
and an edninistrative persunnel total oi 19l. Its centrel adninistretion is
orgenized into eleven sections: (1) Generel Affeirs, with four units: (a)
Secreteriat Affeirs, (3) Miscelleneous Affeirs, (c) Documentary Affeirs, and
(d) Plenning Affairs: (2) Finence, with two units: (a) Tax Imposition, end
(b) Tax Collection; (3) Social Affeirs, with two units: (a) Assistance, and
(b) Livelihood Protection: (4) Construction, with three units: (a) Public Works.
(b) Buildings, (c) Town Planning; (5) Econonics, with threo units: (a) Food-
stuffs, (b) Comerce end Industry, and (c) Meteriels, (6) Accountants Affairs,
with two units: (a) Accounts. and (b) Supply; (7) Agriculture Affeirs, with
four units: (a) Products, (3) Agriculture Adninistration, (c) Statistics, end
(d) Cultivated Lands: (8) Registration, with three units: (a) Census Registra-
tion, (b) Certificetion, end (c) Tempcrary Residents; (9) Sanitation, with
three units: (a) Heelth, (b) Cleaning, end (c) Prevention; (10) Schoo1 Affeirs,
with two units: (e) School Affrirs, end (b) Social Educetion; end (1l) Fire
Fighting, with one unit: Fire Fighting nd Cooperation.
7. The City of Makaiga, Oita ken, has  population of 51, 643 and en
administrative personnel total of 208. Its central adninistretion is organized
into eight sections: (1) General Affairs, with eight units: (a) Miscellaneous.
(b) Investigetion, (c) Accounts, (d) Texaticn, (s) Tex Collections, (f) Tax
Improvision, (g) Family Registration, (h) Temporary Family Registration; (2)
Education, with two units: (a) Educetion, end (b) Social; (3) Industry, with
three units: (e) Agriculture end Forestry, (b) Fishing Products, end (c) Com-
nerce end Industry; (4) Social Affairs. with two units: (a) Social Affeirs, and
(b) Protection; (5) Civil Engineering, with five units: (a) Land and House,
(b) 1st Public Works, (c) 2nd Public Works, (d) Business, end (e) Construction;
(6) Water Supply, with one unit: Supplies and Engineering; (7) Public Health,
with two units: (e) Health, and (b) Police end Fire Fighting; (8) Citizens,
with three units: (a) Citizens, (b) Distribution, end (c) Branch Offices.
8. The City of Yonezewa, Yampgata-ken, has a population of 55, 405
end its central edministration is orgarized into nine sections: (1) Gereral
Affeirs, (2) Tax Affpirs, (5) Public Welfere, (4) Health, (5) Education, (6)
Industry, (7) Civil Engineering, (8) House Registration, and (9) Investigation
end Peper.
9. The City of Beppu, Oita-ken, has a population of 95, O36 and an
edninistrative personrel total of 549. Its central administration is organized
into three departrents: (1) General Affairs Depertnent, with five sections:
(a) General Affgirs, (b) Investigetior, (c) Education, (d) Fenily Registrar, and
(e) Taxation; (2) Social and Econenio Lepartment, with seven sections: (a) Agri-
culture end Forestry, (b) Trade and Comerce, (c) Tourist, (a) Distribution.
25

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.98)
(e) Senitation, (f) Social, and (g) Citizens' Section; (3) Inatallation
Department, with four sections; (a) Water Works, (b) Civil Engineering, (c)
Construction, and (a) Hotsprings.
10. The City of Aomori, Aomori-ken, hes a population of 95,904
and its central administration orgenized into four divisions: (1) Rehabilite-
tion Division. with four sections: (a) Supervision, (b) River Cenals and Ports,
(c) Civil Enginearing, (d) Farm Land Planning: (2) Generel Affairs Division,
with seven sections: (a) Generel Affairs, (b) Tex Affeirs, (c) House Regis-
tration,:(d) Finance, (e) Statistics, (f) Education, and (g) Industry:
(3) Health Preservetion Division, with five sections: (a) Epidemic Prevention,
(b) Eealth Section, (c) Welfare Section, (a) Fire Section, (e) Water Works
Section: and (4) Traffic Division.
11. The City of Morioka, Iwate-ken, hes a population of lll, 899 end
its centrel edministration organized into fourteen sections: (1) General Af-
feirs, (2) House Registration, (3) Educetion, (4) Stetistics end Investiga-
tion, (5) Health. (6) Agriculture end Forestry, (7) Conmerce end Industry,
(8) Livelihood, (9) Tex Affairs, (10) Repeirs, (11) Finence, (12) Welfere,
(13) Civil Engineering. and (14) Weter "orks. The city elso has eleven
Shisho or brench offices, end the following speciel sections: (1) lunicipal
Hospitel, end (2) Equipment for Public "elfare.
12. The City of Asehigewa. Eokkeida, has a populetion of 11l, 988
end its centrel administration orgenized into eleven sections: (1) General
Affairs, (2) Secretariat, (3) Senitation, (4) Industry, (5) Texation, (6)
Materiels, (7) Engineering Business, (8) City Planning, (9) Social, (10)
Education. and (ll) Accounting; also a speciel section, Asahigewa City Hos-
pitel. The personnel total for the Cityis administration is 451.
13. The City of Hokodete. Hokkaido, has a populetion of 213, 034
and its centrel administration orgenized into six depertments: (1) General
Affeirs Depertment, with nine sections: (e) Secretariat, (b) Accounting,
(c) Investigation, (d) Taxation, (e) Education, (f) Welfere, (g) Finence,
(h) Registration, (i) Generel Affeirs; (2) Engineering Department, with three
sections: (a) Public Works, (b) Construction, and (c) Port and Harbor; (3)
Weter Supply Depertment, with three sections: (e) Generel Affeirs, (b) Bus-
iness, and (c) Engineering: (e) Transportetion Department, with four sections:
(a) General Affeirs, (b) Treffic, (c) Accounting, and (d) Engineering; (5)
Senitetion Depertment, with two sections: (a) Sanitetion, end (b) Diseese Pre-
vention; (6) Econonics Department, with three sections: (a) Conmerce end Ind-
ustry, (b) Agriculture end Marine Products, end (c) Meteriels Section. The
personnel total for the Cityts acninistration is 1,382.
Excluding metropoliten mokya composed of the 25 autononous wards, the
five largest cities of Jepan exhibit variations in the number end titles of
the bureaus, departnents end sections. The following figures indicate the
nature of the varietions:
1. The City of Osake, Osaka-fu, has an area of 187.44 sq. kilometers
and a population of 1,822, 050. Its administretion is composed of 14 bureaus,
16 departnents, 96 sections end 344 branches. The personnel totel is 8, 272.
The City is divided into 22 wards, but there is a totel of 25 ward end brench
ward offices.
2. The City of Kyato, Kyato-fu, has an grea of 325.31 sq. kilo-
neters, end a populetion of 1,052, 624. Its edministretion is conposed of 10
bureaus, 1 departnent and 50 sections. The personnel total is 3, 455. The
City is divided into 7 vards, but there is e total of 90 werd and branch werd
offices.
3. The City of Hagova, Aichi-ken. has en area of 161.73 sq. kilo-
maters, end a totel pcpulation of 971, 884, Its edninistretion is composed of
10 bureeus, 3 divisions end 2 sections. The tota1 personnel is 3, 546. The
City is divided into 12 wards.

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
kiloneters, and a total population of 902,660. Its adninidtration 1s com-
Wholesale Merket. Its total personnel is 1, 677. The City is divided inso
10 wards, with 68 sub-branches which perforn partial city affairs. 
5. The City of Kobe, Hyogo-ken, has en area of 390.50 sq. kilo-
meters, and a population of 678,201. Its adninistration is composed of 14
bureaus, 72 sections and 222 branches. Its total personnel is 7,626. The
City is divided into 7 wards, but there is a total of 17 ward end brench
ward offices.
From en overall point of view meny of the nanes of the bureaus, depart-
ments and sections used in Japen are siniler to those used in the United
Stetes, England, end Australia. However, variations in perfornence of the
complete function, as indicated by the title, will be found. Contrary to
the municipal organizetion in Jepen todey, end even historically, is the
practice in each city of the United States of mainteining the Office of the
City Attorney or a Legal Bureau. This is essentiel to city governnent. The
office or bureau is charged with the edninistration of the city's legal af-
fairs. The chief attorney and the two or three deputy attorneys and the
staff of lewyers perforn ell services in which legel counsel end work ere
required or are needed in advisory cepacity by the city governnent. Aus-
tralien municipalities practice different nethods for legal matters. The
smaller cities retain outside practitioners for city contracts end, in gen-
eral, the runicipal officiels possess qualifications in legal studies. The
larger cities heve, in addition, not only qualified legel practitioners em-
ployed on the payroll for legal counsel, but also accountants end other of-
ficials with legal degrees. The Municipal Association will retain lawyers
and obtain opinions on natters of common interest which are available then
to ell municipelities.
The cities of Jepan, as their affairs expand more and more, could well
(1) create legel bureaus, departnents or sections and staff them with good
legel talent, or (2) adopt the systen of securing the best professional law-
yers by neans of a municipal association.
The various bureaus, departments or sections, and the brenches within
then, cannot merely have a nameplete attached, be just a series of roons,
end eppear officielly in sone direstcry list. Each must be made a daily
functioning organ of municipal governrent end each nust contribute with the

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
others collectively as en entire organization for the execution of the
city's policy. To obtain unity of public adninistretion, no bureau is to
be favored as compared to enother; no department is to be overloaded as
2
compared to another. The mayor end his whole executive staff must strive
for a balenced administretion.
The chief of the lureau, departnent or section, because of proper
training and experience, should be the responsible laader as well es the
adninistrator. Personalities cone forward, cthers retire. Should occasion
denend, the chief must also be a professional person end take the lead in
shering his knowledge with his associetes. A prine essentiel which the
chief hes the duty to instill in those who compose his bureeu, department
or section, is the linits of his corpetency. All within the bureau must
know its policy: the kyokucho must so inforn the buchō end they must inform
the kachō. In so doing, administrative difficulties ere few to arise.
Knowledge of policy aids all.
It is elmost as important for the chief of one bureau to know the
competency of each of the other bureeus as it is to know his or her own.
What is of prinary interest to one bureau nay be a strong secondary interest
to three or four other bureaus or departments. Concurrence or non-concurrence
of the intere'sted buraaus is the correct procedure; it yields finished work
and produces the best results of a. professionel group of people. The rayor
as the chief executive responsible fcr final policy execution is entitled
to best inter-bureau, inter-departnental or inter-sectional procedure and
work.
Without the proper coordination of ell the departnental chiefs, funde-
mental nistakes will be bound to occur. It is extrenely easy for one chief
working in blind isolation frcm the others to advocate, if not actually to
produce, a course of action which, even though satisfying to his or her
bureau, is in terns of the city:s essential plenning needs not only stupidly
impractical but elso excellent reeson tcday for the mayor, end in the future
the perscnnel euthority, to take the proper procedure to relieve hin or her
.
fron office.
The chief has professional public servents to supervise. He should
study end know their abilities end linitations.
The career public servant
is soon inbued with a definite service loyelty.
The hichest of professional

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
ethics or professionel morals belongs in public administration and personnel
management just as claimed so long to exist in the medical and legal worids.
The chief must know what he is doing to bring forward the best efforts of
his staff. The chief cannot be "a meddler in effairs" once he makes his as-
signments.
He ought never to attempt "running" subordinate offices and his
own too. Certain detalls should never be his to see or hear much less to
decide. Even though there is great turnover in staff and other personnel.
the menbers of the bureau, department or section should be made to realize
early that a given assignment is their duty to execute and complete and that
he or she "must sink or swim" in terns of how they completed it and sent it
to the chief as their best work. The supervision must be friendly and firm,
not cold end overhearing; the work must be gotten out. Who cares rogardless
of salary paid to be a member of the Red Tape Bureau which is presided over
by Mr. Know-it-all?
Who cares to work in the Frantic Department headed up
by Mr. Clock Watcher?
Who does not relish leaving the High Pressure Section
overlorded by Mr. Snooper?
Obviously, organizations of such bed etmosphere
and poor menagement make municipel administretion dismal end expensive to
operate both in manpower end money. The chief must have ideas and inculcate
the desires in his staff for them to produce their ideas or solutions. Al-
though the chief needs to produce new ideas end chenged ideas, he cennot
lead by being a person of a chengeable mind. Indeed, Milke bozu. To be broaza
for three days only. Such a person is difficult to work for.
3.
Brench Offices of the Municipal Government.
In cities of lerge area
as well as largo populetion, the centrel edministretive offices are not
sufficient for the adequate service of all municinel affairs. The establish-
ment of branch offices is necessery for the rendition of many services. The
provisions of Article 155 of the Chihojichiho are the legal basis for creating
the city's branch offices. These are established "for the purpose of ellot-
ting the affairs which fall within" the mayor's powers.
The location, area
of jurisdiction, end name are defined in the by-laws.
When a city is designated by cabinet order, the nayor, again by means
of by-laws, divides the municipaliuy mto L or wards. These are not the
special wards such as tho twenty-threo lerge ones in the Metropolis of Tokyō.
29

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
They ere edninistretive werds, each with en office end personnel directed by
a kucho or werd chief eppointed by the meyor. Most wards are orgenized to
perforn the city's reguler work or the duties prescribed in netional lews for
the city to carry out, such es in the census, collection of "business" sta-
tistics, or in the conduct of welfere and social work, including aid to wer
sufferers, unerployed end disebled, end physicelly hendicepped persons. Branch
or ward offices are also engaged in the deteiled edministretion of retioning.
excluding actuel distribution, supervision of the schools, prevention of epi-
demics end other senitary neesures, es well as tax collections. Frequently
these edninistretive werds have been forned fron former towns or villeges
which hed been ebsorbed by surrounding cities beceuse of finenciel difficulties.
This trend became pronounced because of Japan's econonic condition end in view
of the inordinate costs of some locel governnents.
In the larger cities, because of the greet population in then, brenches
of the wards also exist. They perform essentially the sene functions es the
werd itself. Abolished in 1947 by the Nainushg, the forner rengokai, chonai-
kai and toneri-gumi existed as districted offices in the municipel governnent
to compel the enforcenent of deteiled adninistrative natters. Their creation
and existence were ecconpenied unfortunately by too nany sinister aspects of
thought control, reginentation, end undue interference in the private life of
the individual citizen to warrent their continuence as an orgen of represente-
tive government.
No such organization has any place in a derocracy.
The chiefs of the branch or ward offices in nost cities in Jepen are
under the immediete supervision of the Chief, Generel Affairs Section; in
other cities they report to the Assistant Mayor. Coordination of the brench
or ward offices with the city's central adninistraticn is vital to a workable
overall policy for the city. How is it established end nainteined?
Those
matters outside the reguler routine, the chief of the brench office can end
should take up with his innediate superior.
The Chief, Generel Affairs Sec-
tion, or Assistant Mayor should have reguler conferences with all the brench
office or ward chiefs to discuss nutually the latter's affeirs. Inportant
information fron these conferences shorld be passed to the neyor at once. At
stated intervels the mayor should meet with these chiefs to leern at first
hand the result of his existine policy in the various prees of the city end

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
to give to then personelly eny chenges in policy or new plens. Moreover
the nayor and assistent neyor, particulerly if he is not the innediate
superior to the chiefs, should on occesions meke inspections of the pranch
offices or wards. Such visits ere morale building factors to the subordi-
nates concerned if nothing more. Once the city's brench offices ere created
that fact does not prevent, end it should not prevent, the neyor or assenbly-
nen fron re-exanining end re-evelueting the need for them. The city should
not follow the exarple nor the prefectural governnent should not follow the
example set by the naticnel bureaucrats during the past two yeers in spider-
webbing Jepan with costly duplicating, overlepping brench offices stuffed
end overloaded with personnel.
Whenever a supposedly functionel service or opereting office starts to
decey or to becone so mechanically routine that the work and the administra-
tive procedures require little thought to exercise in their one, two end
three order, end the administrators are restricted and cut off from exercising
discretion, the taxpeyers should see that the neyor or the assenblynen take
specific ection to save runicipal expenses by (1) replacing the professional
officials with clerks, or (2) elininating perscanel, or (3) ebolishing the
office eltogether and having the services performed through the post office.
Branch offices must serve & real governnental service to justify continued
existence. Bureaucratic empire building is dengerous to good government.
Use of branch or ward offices is not usual in Australia. With one ex-
ception, Brisbene, cormunities which ere too unvieldy for centralized adnini-
stration are divided into separate municipalities. In such cases, however,
metropolitan boards nade up of representatives fron ell municipalities con-
cerned nay be used to operete public utilities for the benefit of all. Thus,
Melbourne, with a population of 1,115, 200, has a Boerd of Vorks to provide
water supply end sewerage, a Tranways Bcard to operate bus and streetcar
transportation for the group of cities, towns end boroughs of which it is
D
conprised. In Australia this is then considered a better meers of obtaining
policy control by electors in locel effeirs then through the branch office
systen. Much good exists in the applica on of this principle of government.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
Fundemental Reletionships of the Adninistretion
1. Relationship with the Assembly. City officc personnel are called
upon to perforn clericel work for the Assenbly Affairs Office, en organiza-
tion siniler in purpose to the Diet Secretariat. This should continue as
long as municipel assembly sessions are brief end the volune of clerical
work required is snall. As the expansion of local governnent services tekes
place, the use of personnel on a full tine basis by the assembly will be re-
quired. The city asserbly should employ its own personnel to provide itself
with a staff whose interests and loyalty will lie prinerily with the assembly
end, therefore, not leave the normal adninistrative offices with extra burdens.
It is the rule in denocratic countries that officiels in the executive
branches of the government when called, appear before the assembly committees
to talk on bills end measures relating to the public which they adninister
as the conpetent municipal officials. In eddition, they cen be sent for to
produce books end documents or to pass upon the technical correctness end
advisability of projected legislation. In general, they can be asked to
answer eny non-confidentiel question relating to municipal edninistration.
When the mayor or assistant meyor is unevailable, it is the duty of the chief
officiels, or those directly responsible for the compilation of the budget, to
give full explanations of the items conteined therein to the assenbly. They
nust avoid eny atterpt to conceal expenditures or executive naneuvers which
might leter becone the basis for criticisn of the meyor end other subordinates.
For the assembly to fulfill its obligations wisely end efficiently, it must
gain a true picture of every phase of municipal adninistretion. This can be
accomplished best by close cooperation between assembly committees, set up
to specialize in certain functions, and the corresponding or eppropriete ex-
ecutive department.
As a warning, it should be recelled that Article 100 of
the Chihojichiho provides severe punishment for false statements made by
persons, including governnent officials, before assenbly comnittees.
In order to promote greater harnony end understending between the ed-
ministration end the municipal assembly, it is imperative that the heads of
the executive departments, aiter clearing with the Office of Mayor, confer
with the assembly leeders to the greatest practicable extent concerning the
functions end problens under their jurisdiction. Failure to keep the assembly

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
to the mayor as well as bring forth cherges of errogance end bureaueratio
callousness. Many times this severe censure is well deserved.
2.
Reletionship to the Independent Agencies. The edministretion is a
service body. Unless the work of the cormittee, cormission or board is suf-
ficient to justify the full time employment of a secretariet or clerical
steff, the persennel fron the appropriate lureau, depertment or section in
the adninistration, or those persons assigned through the Office of Mayor,
will be the part time assistants and clerks. This work is important. The
records end files should be kept by the independent egency even though worked
upon by personnel not strictly its own. Hence, during the period of elsctions,
audits of city accounts or similar speciel work, the adrinistration nust per-
form edditional duties. Plens can be nade ahead of time to allot this work.
Insofar as some administrative sections ere responsible for the final
stages of municipal budget drafting, the Chief, Generel Affeirs Section, or
Finence Section end essistants must hold frequent conferences with the Public
Safety Commission, Election Administration Comnittee and the Boerd of Educa-
tion.
It is not the function of the adninistration to do all the estimating
and calculating for the budget of each of these agencies. Each of the three
euthorities is duty bound to produce its finished budget which, when coordin-
ated with others, becores the city's general or special budget.
3.
Relationship with the Prefectural Government. Most official rela-
tionships between the city government and the prefectural government are
carried on between the mayor end the governor and this is a correct procedure.
Some relations, es well as contacts end conferences between the city edminis-
tration and prefectural administretion, are not only necessery but also most
desirable. City officiels crn go either to the central prefectural offices
or to the prefectural branch offices. The latter offices et present ere too
rostricted as to competency to justify much tine on the part of the top city
officials. Moreover, as long as the prefecturel brench offices are of this
nature, they should be curtailed and  r mmber kept few.
The relationships existing present cen doubtless be strengthened to
the benefit of both groups. Exemples of functions in which the corresponding
33

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.98)
，
working level relationships cen alweys be improved are in finance end publio
works projects.
In today's hard system of texetion, a close relationship
must exist between the prefectural euthorities end the municipal governments
which have to levy surtaxes upon the prefectural taxes; unnecessary duplica-
tion of effort can be evoided. The public works projects which require joint
participetion by the prefectural and municipel governments necessitate close
coordination for maximum effectiveness. From such working level collabora-
tion, many if not most, otherwise troublesome issues cen be settled satis-
factorily before they reach the mayor or the governor for finel arrangements.
4.
Relationship with the National Government. Most mayors end city
officials in Japan prior to the enactment of the Chihojichiho had very little
dealing with the central government directly. Under the old Shisei and the
many related ordinances, the prefectural governments were the strong regula-
ting, regimenting arms of the Nainushy and nationel government. They per-
formed most of the functions trensferred, suddenly end unwerrentedly by the
national ministries bent upon reteining their grasping authority, to an
overly lerge number of newly established brench offices. The celculating
bureeucracy in this vicious expansion attempted a wholessle usurpetion of
local government powers and responsibilities which they can perform most
reasonably. The nationel bureeucracy in this cese was precticing egain in
its customary happy fashion the feudalistic principle of power, Kenson Mimpi.
Under the old Shisei and the Chihokenkansei, instructions received from
the Maimusha and other ministries were handed down by the governors to the
meyors.
Today, elthough some categories of conmodities and foodstuffs con-
tinue to be allocated by the conpetent ministries to the prefectural govern-
nents, end then to the cities, other categories ere now alloceted by the
local office of the nationel branches. As long es these offices exist, the
officers of the city government must exert their utmost for prompt execution
and complience of laws. The netional bureeucracy invented the idea and per-
petrated the costly duplicating offices end systen upon the elleged grounds
that municipal authorities ere incapable of edministering national laws as
thoroughly end efficiently as they would vith their owm personnel in their
own branch offices.
Most ell city edn nistrations in Japen cen demonstrate
the folly of this flimsy prenise!
Fevertheless, in order to forestall further

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.97)
●
7
hooves the city administration to give close attention to faithful, effieient
execution of all netionel affairs coming to the city's jurisdiction.
Some working level ralationships between the city edministrators end
the netional bureeucracy ere, as with tho prefectural governments, needed
and desirable. Many a national buregucrat can get good advice from a muni-
cipal official if he only will do so instead of thinking that he has the
answer before he knows the problen. The stupidity of arbitrery quotes end
meny other distesteful actions shunted to the local governments end impossi-
ble of sensible execution could be avoided. Tho ministry could be saved
possible emberressment.
The meyor end the cheirmen of the city assembly,
beyond their own necessery officiel trirs, should see thet those of the
other city officiels ere likewise officielly mado and that
the number taken
is mot to become symptomatic of a chronic disease! Perticular attention
should be given to the fector of rotation of personnel meking the officiel
trips, unless continuity of operetion on a projact is deemed vital.
The
total nunber of ell trips to mokyō, directly or indirectly relating to offi-
cial business, should be few.
City officisls should be deciding issues lo-
cally on their om judgment.
The various national lews, exemples of which are given in Peper No. 2
of this series, assign either the mayor or the city governnent with definite
responsibilities. Study of the neterial provisions show the duties snd serv-
ices which require continuous coordination between the city edministration
and the central government cither in Tākyo or its regionel agencies.
Saving the Texpeyers! Money
The cry to save city epenses is chronic. Seemingly individuels and
all parties takc up the slogen, "Seve the taxpeyers' noney!"
The voters heve
to hear this megic phrase over end over eain.
Some people mean what they
sey when they use the slogan.
Others cen meen to eccomplish savings when
they declere nd promise so. but somehow on assuning the reins of office
they manage to pile up still larger budgets!
The savings of tax nonies cen be't e accomplished by carefully planned
courses of action.
They ought to be the most careful courses of ell.
There
should be thorough studies end snalyses with execting evaluations of (1). the
35

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.98)
city's functions or services, (2) all the property, equipment and mechenichl
devices of either fixed or moveeble types, from Diesel, gasoline or steam
power generating equipnent down to typewriters end dictaphones, end (3) the
procedures and practices within the whole city government. Saving money is
9
a science. It is not a hit or miss operation. A farmer nakes his mikan no
9
ki, nashi no ki or mono no ki beer their delicious fruits by his careful
pruning of their brenches year after year. The uekiye end the niwashi, who
produce the beautiful hānsai, study and evaluate each of their actions most
carefully before they touch the roots or epply the knife. Even when the
farmer wants to cut the tree down completely end to do away with it, he does
not stend off a distence and throw the axe at it! The uekiya and the fermer
perform their work with a purpose, which produces excellent results.
Too meny people with savings of expenses in mind approach the governmentel
budget with the idea of cutting drastically here end whecking wildly there.
Therefore, they force the principle of "pinch penny finence" into operation
in government. Where this odd principle of finance belongs, if it belongs
anywhere, is in our childhood when we save our sen in momentery mejesty in
order to make the grave decision of whether to spend all our money on ice
candy or to squeeze a little out for another ticket to have one more look at
the monkey! When we nake our recommendations for saving expenses in govern-
ment, we must use only the most careful methods, the best planned end calcu-
leted actions as does the niwashi and farmer in their work.
The following illustrations show how study end investigation cen produce
savings in money and manpower:
1. A city police department meintained an office for emergency services
for ell types of eccidents: automobiles, trains, gas leaks, asphyxia, fires,
and for assistance to police authorities in difficulties. The personnel
strength was epproximately 500 policemen and the office had 20 emergency
trucks. The fire depertnent mainteined a staff of l00 firemen and 4 rescue
trucks to do almost precisely the sane duties. By consolideting the function
in the fire department, (1) no additionel men hed to be added to the fire de-
partment, (2) more then 350 policemen were freed for reguler police duty,
(3) three-fourths of the trucks were trensferred from the police department,
end (4) over one million dollers e year in salery end police service time were
seved.
2. A city had three very lerge departnents, which over a period of years
had grown up with no particuler pinir. Each departnent maintained separate
medical staffs end laboratcries. T.  personnel of all three departments
was over 35, Oo0 men end women. On (..  vion, many bad prectices end condi-
tions found among the three were: : coctors' and nurses' salaries varied
meterially from one depertment service to the other, end some subordinate
medical doctors actually received more money then their supervisors. (2) the

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.98)
work load of some of the doctors and nurses wes greatly out of proportion
to others, not only emong the three departments, but elso within two of
them, (3) the quality of services rendered end the treatment time to the
individual allowed wero not the sene recause of physical equipment end clinio
policy, and (4) sick leave pcliy end ccmpeneation payments to employees
were sharply different. A consolidated system renedied these ills, produced
better morale in the whole city adninistration end made savings of over one-
half million dollers.
3. In a city of relatively small size, eech of five departments main-
teined a small fleet of passenger cars and trucks end each attempted to op-
crete a repeir shop of its own. This was e cestly operation for all depart-
ments and bed service tc the city enylcyees resulted frequently. Infrequent
breakdowns, different types of repairs necessery, pert-time employnent of
mechenics end reletive y poor equipront were the causes. Although the immedi-
ete outlay for nachineay end repairing equipment was costly, the sum spent
was the proper invesmmt for the city, for it: (1) centrelized repeir work,
(2) provided reguler repair services, and (3) gave regular end better mein-
tenance for ell vehicles.
4. In many large cities in the United Stetes, hand labor when used
regulerly end in consideralle quantity becomes very expensive in conparison
to mechine operation. A city in this category, after much experimentation,
invested in a mechanical snow end broon sweepers because one operator of a
mechenicel broom sweeper could roplace eight hand sweepers. The machine
could sweep eight miles of streets while the hand sweeper did less than a
mile. In localities in which hand lebor is very cheep as compared to mechan-
icel equipment, such savings could not be gained.
5. Some cities have found that the equipment which they possess is not
only out of date but also that it is costly to operete in man hours and money,
in power bills and building space to house it. One 30-yeer-old printing ma-
chine was used by two city depertments Jointly. The nachine opereted slowly
and avloverdly. It necessiteted 32 mon, 9 of whon were uniformed firemen.
Only rough calculations convinced the neyor that for the printing work of
the two derertments, he cotid, case for case, save the city substential sums
by having the printing doue conmercially outsido end returning the firemen
to their proper dutics rather than neke printers out of them. The city had
hired the firenen to be firemen not printers!
6. Many cities frequently "clean house" regularly of old or bad office
equipment. The mayors and departmont chiefs nako improvements by securing
(1) good typewriters, (2) good nimcographing eguipment, (3) dictephones,
(4) steel record cases, (5) microrilming equipment to replace tons of city
pepers and many tsubo of space, end (6) dosks, desk equipment and practical
office furniture. Regularized savings can accrue by such regular methods.
7. In ell cities savings in personnel are femiliar. There is little
question but that many offices ere overstaffed or thet sone offices should,
along with ell the personnol, be abolished. Surveys of positions, jobs,
services and whole bureaus, depertments or sections yield the proper answers.
Many neyors in Jepen have discussed their need for nore practicel, less
costly end nore usoful cquipment. Similer action in the types of cases shown
above can be taken in most any city in Jepan.
Sunmary Conclusion
In the New Jepan the cities will unquestionably perform more services
and execute more functions. The role f the adninistration will be more de-
manding of the civil seryents. Specielized treining will bo preperetory for
this.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.98)
a
The edministration of the cities with new incentives for all of its
work must render a yen's worth of effort for each yen spent in the municipal
payroll.
Moreover, in order to insure impartial execution of all laws end to ex-
clude partisan influences, the individuel civil servant must keep his poli-
tical ectivities to himself. He or she certeinly can and each certainly
should vote. He and she cen attend politicel meetings end be a member of a
political party, but neither can campaign for anyone, even indirectly. Nor
cen the public servent escept outside employment whether for private busi-
nesses, political organizations or for employee associations. His or her
sole employment is thet in the public service.
The municipal officiels can help themselves by themselves. In England
the National Association of Local Government Officials has 70,O00 members.
It is en organization designed to improve the professional status of the locel
government employees. It has developed its Preliminary Test for which public
examinations are held twice a yeer. It hes convinced many local governments
to require the Prelininary Test as en entrance qualification of incoming en-
ployees. The Associetion gives exaninations for edvanced certificetes in
public administration. It conducts correspondence courses for higher pro-
fessional examinations and in siniler manner, by agreenent with universities,
hes the latter award the Diplona of Public Adninistretion to qualifying can-
didates. The Associetion elso has errangenents which foster inproved end
better civil service. Organized on an entirely different basis is the Civil
Service Assembly of the United States and Cenada, femous for the type of
professional services rendered beceuse of its weelth of experiences with
public administration. Both national end local governnents eveil themselves
of the Assenbly's services. For most municipelities such work is difficult.
Nevertheless, the work is good, end in sinilar feshion it cen be done well
in Jepan today.
The menbers of the municipel adninistretions of Japan cen echieve great
service in loyelty to good govenment and its orderly processes. The city
enployees do not need to be in a pes !  of disdain in which so meny of
the national smug bureeuerais have heid then so long. The netional bureau-
crets might weli chenee: Yo wa aimochi.

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.97)
For the first time in Japanese history the Chihojichiho provides the
legel framework for real popular participation in government. The municipal
edministrations cen give vitelity to the framework. There is no question
會
here, Seishin itto nanigoto ka narazaran. For generations the Japanese
people have desired a system of bureaucracy which insured and perpetuated
the principle that es long as the governnent needed services, opportunities
open and equel to all would exist for those of demonstrated abilities. In
attaining the legal structure for such a merit system today, the Japanese
people in certein civic mindedness must be vigilant to support it.and to keep
it functioning at all levels of government, whether village, town, city,
prefectural or national.
July1949

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure#
HEADQUARTERS EIGRTH UNITED STATES ARMY
Civil Affaire Section
Legal ant Goveranent:Division
THE LOCAL AUTONONT PROGRAM FOR THE CITINS OF JPA
Peper No. 5.
Comnittees, Commissiona and Boards
As Independent Agencies in Local Government
The developnent and use of committees, cormissions or boards as in-.
dependent or nearly independent agencies in government, functioning for
perticuler purposes, are reletively new in Jepan. As orgens of local
governnent, they are absolutely new. Only during the irmediate past
years have these agencles been established in the locel goveriments as
FW
functioning bodies responsible to the public. The fact that they have
already demonetrated their values in the operation of city governments
8
all over Japan is significent. Most definitely they can become of even
5
greater service in all the local public entities. These new agencies
will function at their best when: (1) the taxpayers and voters see that
C
a particular function, whatever it may be, requires such a special method
of execution es to have it separated from the regular city edministrative
offices and made directly responsible to them; (2) the members of the
perticuler cormittee, conmission or board understand thet tley ere per-
forming their legel functions in the public interest; (3) the mayor end
staff. members of the assembly and the entire city administration compre-
hend thoroughly that the menbers of the agency have the responsibility
in law to carry out the specified function. This fact definitely means
that the nayors and other governmental officials do not have that respon-
sibility and. therefore, thet the agency's business is not their affair;
and (4) the eourts as judicial architects of governnent through careful
decisions draw the egency in its proper perspective. Indeed. the judges
in this entire matter of dealing with the agencies directly responsible
to the public heve a grave responsibility which they must discharge in
certain precision.
Under the old end now abolished Shisei, or Lew Concerning the Organi-
zation of Cities, the municipalities es a group were styled the autonomous
syetem. However. nost all Jepanese realized that reel eutonony did not

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.98)
exist. The bureaucrats of Heirusht, or Ministry of Hons ffairs, and
others too, with a smug indifference knew that there were very few fumo-
tions of governnent which the runicipelities could carry out by themselves
without the direct consent, supervision or interference of the governor.
as en officiel in the prefecture or Neimusho, or of other officials in
Tokyō of Nairi? i self. In tho execution of the inportant affeirs of
the city, the meyor in deference to the governor always had:to yield and
make the best of it. Rale is the cese -in the entire history of the old
"Local Autonomy Systen" that a city nayor could stend on his legal rights,
face the governor or ruch less Naimusha, end sey, "Unier the Shisei, this
affair is our city's aitair. We do not want your supervision or interfer
encel We here in the city oan and will settle this natter ourselves."
Because of the very small sphere of municipal authority in which the
nayor could ect independently, he hed little need to seek out the advice
of people or to learn the opinions of representetive groups of citizens.
Indeed, with such a snall anount of independence, the city's government
of affairs was quite routine. Beceuse routine in governrent ellowed little
or no varietion in sdninistretion, the meyor by means of a relatively small
series of sections, branhes end units could execute end conduct the simple
affairs. No function of ci y government was inportant enouch to single
out for special adninistration. The inportent fuictions were edministered
by the bureaucrets in Tokya. The city goveinnent had no need for other
agencies as independent comnittees, cornissions or boerds. Moreover, what
city services existed were few; funds to conduct these were never plenti-
ful. :The brunt for ell city living was borne by the texpayers who hed so
little to say. The condition in which city governnent and manegenent,
with but slight routine exception, were controlled so authoritatively by
Naimushō or Ministry of Home Affairs, should end must be relegated to the
pest. The condition should not be draeged out egain except as a bad ex-
ample of what not to repeat. Today, nunicipel government has the unique
opportunity to be resourceful end creative.
Reasons for Esteblishnent
The creation end setting into operation of conmittees, conmissions

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
or boards sither completely or reletively independent of the reguiar
depertments of city government to administer e partiouler function,
heve been the result of some specific causes end conditions. The hi
tory of these bodies in the United States is replete with facts and
causes for their establishment on the pert of the citizens es texpayqrs
end voters, end thet of the officiels es legislators end edministrators.
In Jepan today the legel position of ell local public bodies is
markedly chenged end different from that of a very few years past., The
legal difference todey automatically hes pleced some functions of gov-
ernment on new levels for operetion and in new positions for administra-
tion. The specific result of thege changes neens thet the structure or
organization of municipal government can end ought to chenge. Not only
are there these legel differences but also meny social end economic dif-
ferences, not to say variations. As the finencial conditions of the lo-
cal governments are bettered through a reorganized tax structure and the
present evils remedied, more substantive benefits from these social and.
economic differences can be gained by the citizens.
Specific reasons for the esteblishnent of these independent or
relatively independent bodies in local governnent can best be tabulated
here in the following four:
First, a nation whose society is besic lly mirel and agricultural
undergoes real sociel end economic chenges wher it either gredually or
quickly turns a substential portion of its pcpulation into en industriel
course. During the pest 30 yeers this situaticn took place in Jepan.
If the turnover is forced and rapid, many new end veried demends by
society upon governnent for more eid end services ere in evidence. Many
aspects of this,too, cen be seen in Jepan. In adlilion to these factors,
the past wer yoers heve brought socio-econonic changes of their own into
Jepen; these chenges have elso genereted strong pressure on government
for additionel aid and services. In terms of a nation's life, what has
taken place so suddendly end with whet result? The volume end variety
of demands and needs of the new groups end the chenging society as a
whole upon government ere so overwhelmingly out of proportion to its or-

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
ganizational and structural ability to comply thet chenge in govern-
ment's orgenizetion must be nade. The old organization. the ola pro-
cedures are outmoded end wholly ineffectuel. To attempt to maintain
the old organizeticn or the cid procedure is not only politicel folly
but also govermmentel blundering. In Jepan the Diet acted promptly.
Sensible changes in governnentel structure end procedure have been
achieved. The usuei bureaucratic red.tape ran out. Moreover the Diet
in altering gcvernmental orgenization of the local governnent proceeded
correctly by enacting laws which established cucstantive rether then ed-
ministretive achievenents.
Second, the citizens and officials may desire to take one function
of government beceuse of. its great importence and separate it for special
treatment fron the cther functions of government. Why would they do
this? The enswer for meny ceses has been a political one. The playing
of bed politics anywhere in government completely distorts good adminis-
tration end ection which otherwise left alone would produce e just or
rightful result for the pubiic. If ell functions of government ere ed-
ministered through the re offices, quick discernment cen be most diffi-
cult as from which office the bad politics is genereting. For the sake
of politics, therefore, a function of governnont may be singled out by a
law so drefted end enected thet a particuler agency will be established
to edminister it under a given set of stenderds end regulations. Thus
it will differ fron the reruler administrative oifices. The erection of
this type of a legel fort mekes political tinkering difficult to cover
up. In most cases it lets the public see precisely where the responsi-
bility lies. In other words the function and the body to operate it ere
in such a governmentel position thet the public hes little trouble in
knowing and seeing that the cornitteenan or commissioners cerry out the
law as conmanded. This is ex ctly whet is needed. The good jeweler
places his pearls on & piece of derk lavender or black velvet so that
the customer's eyes can concentrete on the precious gen with no distrac-
tion. In similar menner the assembly through special enactment draws
the public's eyes to the particular governmentel effrir and egency.
4

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.97)
Third,. a particuler service of gavernment may demand segr
neqted therewith because of its highly technical operation as well
its greet end extensive need by the public. The texpayers and legib
lators in each stete of the United States have felt that such great
2
services which heve to be developed with water end trensportation and
3
especially with electricity end eas for light or power, could best be
1
administered for the public good by a particuler instrumentality. Pub-
lic utility conmissions ere the standard special agencies for those four
services in the United States in federel, state end municipal govern-
ments. It must be stated here, too, thet in the United Stetes the pri-
vate citizen as an individual end the large or small corporation own
and operate virtually ell of the greet enterprises in water, trensporta-
tion, electricity and ges which serve the public; the individual and
the corporation in their privetely operated end owmed business are
regulated by the state for the public interest and benefit. The govern-
mentel regulatory body which tells the verious business enterprises how
to sell their products end at what prices or rates is the public utility
comnission or boerd. Meny edventages accrue to the government through
such special egencies; finencial savings end better use of personnel
have resulted.
Fourth, for sone functions of governnent mora then all others com-
bined. the individuel citizen hes a direct and continuing interest. It
is so immediate, so continuing end so much a part of his or her daily
life thet en agency created specially to handle it is the only answer
for proper solution. This: is because the function must be administered
close to the people for it is sensitive to their nceds. An independent
egency is fer mere flexible from the point of viey of simple edministre-
tion or management than vere it left as just another pert of the regu-
lar governnental offices. The acency is esteblished with specific pow-
ers to administer one function; it can act end meke decisions quickly,
fer more quickly then were it forced to be dependent upon other offices,
5

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.98)
depertments or bureaus for concurrences and ratificetions for actions
and decisions. For this one regson alone thousends of nunicipalities
heve singled out the functions of police end educetion for special treat=
ment.
All fou: of these reesons heve been causes for the Diet to create
independent or relntively independent conmittees, conmissions end boards
from the regular adminisiretion not only for the nationel government but
elso for the locel governments. The Election Adninistration Conmittee
in the Chihojichiho, the Public Safety Cornission in the Police Law
end Locel Boerd of Eaucetion in the Board of Education Lew were created
as a result of the first, second end fourth rersons.
Definition and Charecter
In the foregoine peges the inportence to the taxpayers of the
committee, conmission or board es en essentiel agency of government
hes been mede clear. As en egency cherged to cerry out e perticular
duty or sot of duties under the lew. elthough it is independent or rela-
tively independent of the city's regular offices, bureeus, depertments
or divisions, it nevertheless must be remembered thet the agency is a
definite element of the city's governnent, Under no circunstances is
the egency seperated fron the whole of the municipelity, Sone defini-
tions should be given end some charecterizations expleined.
Before either the definitions or characterizations cen be made
meeningful,however, sore importent governmentel facts nust be under-
stood. Under the Jepanese Constitution separation of the three branches
of government is made; there is the executive brench which is the cabi-
net, the legisletive branch which is the Diet end the judiciel brench
which is the court system. This separetion of powers in Japen is simi-
ler to thet in the United States found in the Federel Constitution and
·the constitutions in each of the 48 stetes. Although the separation
of powers exists in Englend, it is not so sherply drewn.
It is cleer, toc, thet for nearly ell effairs neerly ell the time,
each of the brenches nust as a whole be kept end exercised separately
6

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.98)
a
fron the others; thus the competent officiel of one cannot perfdrm
nore than the whole of his own; he or she does not perform either of
the others. Specifically, the cebinet. would not be e eourt pronoune-
ing judements or it would not be an assenbly enecting legielation; the
Diet would not be a court pronouncing judgments or it would not be an
executive edministering lews; the court would be neither the executive
nor the legisleture. Moreover, end of just es greet inportance, are
8
the facts that (1) the legisletive authority with its creative powers
of enacting laws could not delegate ell or even e substantial portion
of its powers to an agency which it might esteblish. (2) the legisla-
tive authority cennet creete a punitive body pronouncing finel judg-
ments and imposing sentences of punishments without appeal, or (3) the
legisletive authority cannot establish an independent administretive
egency such es cóuld usurp or encroech substentially upon the execu-
tive's powers. It is obvious also thet because an agency cannot be
creeted to perform eny single function of the siven three in eny sub-
stantial manner, no arency could be creeted to perforn all of these
functions in eny substential nanner.. Thus, it is importent to renem-
ber continuously the principle thet no one person, no one political
perty, clique or groups or no one authority or office of government
can be ellowed to exercise the whole of rore then one of the powers;
never should the whole of two or of the three powers cone under one
and the sene authority. Reflection must be mede continuously upon
this greet principle.
Defined then,a cormittee, a conmission or board is a tribunal of
linited jurisdiction because the particuler powers ere enumerated in
the law or by-law establishing it. As en official or representetive
body it is organized outside the roguler administretive offices to per-
form a public trust end to execute officiel or representetive functions.
Further, it is esteblished to have the menegement of a public office
responsible to the public directly for the exercise of governnental
and edninistretive functions.
7

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.98)
Having defined wiat the agency is in a general positive statement
can define whet it is not in a general negative statement. By creation,
the committee, commission or boerd cannot be e court or judiciel body in
Japan because by the Jonstitution it could not have the power that would
allow it to regulate its own proceedings completely or enforce its own de-
cision with finlily. Also because of the Constitution, on the basis of
whole or complete powers for each branch of governnent, the egency cannot
be a legisletive body enacting laws at will. Neither can it be the execu-
tive authority exercising final administretive ection for the same reason.
In each case of establishment, the agency's powers are similar to
those of the central government's powers. They approxinate the central
government's powers; they never ere, however, the seme in degree. Speci-
fically, the egency cannot go beyond its statutory powers. The agency is
responsible in court for its judements. This means thet it can sue and be
sued. The egency furnishes a method, mechine or vehicle of government to
accomplish an object for the public. It certeinly furnishes manegenent for
a service of a given area or district. Within the law creating it, the
agency can set stenderde and generel rules for the conduct of effairs of
the citizen which reach a public interest. Being created for the public
interest, the egency cen never take the legal charecter of a private indi-
vidual. Therefore, it must never attenpt to act, like a private individual.
Nor should its menbers represent it es e privete individual. Its nembers
duly qualified and duly sitting, either by totel membership or legal
quorum, are a legel collective public body. Therefore, they should fune-
tion as a. public body.
The Legal Functions
The basic function of the comnittee, commission or board cen be en-
tirely different in each cese.
This fact is generel. The lews ere enacted
purposefully in this menner.
For the correct terminology vhen giving e functionel title to these
special agencies, the word guasi nust be used; it meens similar to, not
quite the sane, epproximeting the power or cheracter of something. Specifi-
cally, the agency is qursi-judiciel, quesi-legisletive, or quesi-adminis-
trative in charecter.

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.98)
First, an agency den be quesi-judicfal. This legal feotme
that it is a body which can make certain'decisions on issues or fabt
brought before it which are bindine upon the people concerned. It is-
sues orders which must be obeyed unless an eppeel from the decision is
taken to a court and there eltered. Thus the quesi-judicial body act
like a. court yet it is not a court as it has no final judiciel authority.
Second, an egency can be a quesi-legislative body. This legel fact
means that it is a body empowered to pass rrles and regulations which
are binding upon people. But these rules and regulations must always.
be only those which implenent the orgenic ect which esteblishes the body.
They can never be outside the ect, that is new rules, or any series of .
regulations which the conmissioners think that they would like to pass.
Here again the quasi-legislative body ects like a legislature but it is
not one as it cennot enact laws at will.
Third, an agency can be quesi-edministrative. This legal fact
meens that the body perforns executive end edninistretive functions.
In doing so the body, like the reguler departnonts or bureaus, is in a
channel of euthority. The egency cen be meking executive decisions for
administretive action of e high or reletively high level. But even so,
the legel possibility is elweys open to the reel executive euthority
(1) to over-rule the administrative acticn or (2) to give e finel sig-
nature.
Fourth, in some cases depending upon the functional authority, it
would seem thet the agency has all of these gursi powers although ac-
tually only one quesi power predominetes.
Fifth, fully epart fron the type of agency given above, is the
body established by law or by-lew with the special function to give ed-
vice to some governmental office. The certein effairs on which the ed-
vice is given are enumereted in the law in either general or specific
manner. Obviously, the agency's advice is merely an opinion. The
agency's advice is never en order or e decision of the legelly forceful
character effecting people es are those of the guesi-type body given
above. Moreover. the office to which the edvice is given cen accept
9

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
or reject it. The office is not legally bound to take the agemay
opinions, although, of course, in governmentel prectice the office does
take the advice.
In addition and of importance is the fact thet these advisory bodies
are nearly alvsys composed of highly qualified persons who because of
training and e perience cen give technicel. professionel end sound opinions.
The legislative authority is duly bound to specify in the law the
jurisdiction of the agency. The assembly should pass an act defining
clearly end specifying what the conmittee, commission or board is to do.
The lew should specify whet the powers of the gency are. Most inpor
tant is the extent of the agency's power of discretion. Such important
legal matters should never be left vague, mystical or mixed up.
Committees, Cormissions end Boerds in the Local Commnities
In Japan the authority which establishes these egencies is contained
in the lews or the locel governnent by-laws. For the proper operation end
functioning of these agencies, not only do the laws end by-lews apply but
also the Cabinet Crders, lhe ministeriel regulations end the announced
rules made by the agencics thenselves.
In Jepan classification of these agencies should be nade es to
whether they are estatlished out of a provieion of law or through a by-
law originated end passed solely under organic euthority of a local gov-
ernment.
The Diet has provided that a committee, conmission or board will be
created in the local governnents by outright requirement in the law or by
a grant of authority which the locel public bodies cen exercise at will.
through enactment of locel by-lews. Exemples of the agencies established
by requirement of the lews are:
1.  The Election Administration Committee established by the
Chihojichtho,
20
The Public Safety Connission esteblished by the Police Law.
3.
The Local Board of Educetion established by the Bowrd of
Education Law.
10

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.99)
4. The Agricultural Land Commission established by the
Land Adjustment Law.
5. The Agricultural Ad justment Committee established by the Food
Maintenence Tamporery Measures Law.
6. Committee for the Prevention of Infeotious Diseases under tho
Law for tne Prevention of Infectious Diseases, Law No. 36, as
of 1897, amended 1905 and 1949. Article 15.
Two exemples of egencies provided for in laws by grant of authority
which the locel governnent can establish through en implementing by-lew
as they desire, are:
1. . The Inspection Conmittee es granted in the Chihojichiho.
2. The Prefectural Agricultural Improvement Committee es granted
in the Lew Concerning Improvement end Promotion of Agriculture.
Examples of committees, commissions or boerds esteblished only by
enactment of a local by-lew could be given from most any city in Japan
whether lerge or small. The following are advisory in function appointed
by the mayor:
1. In Morioka, the Committee on Tex Peyment, the Committee on Sani-
tation, end the Committee on Distribution.
2. In Osaka, the Committee on Public Works end the Committee on the
Operationel Menegement of the Port Area.
3. In Kobe, the Committee on Property Eveluation end the Committee
for Coordinetion of Municipal Enterprises.
In Jepan today from the standpoint of membership two types of egencies
have been developed, the bi-pertisan body: for exemple, the Election Ad-
ministration Committee, which is composed of members from two political
parties; end the non-partisen body; for exemple, the Inspection Committee,
in which membership is not determined by politicel affilietion of the mem-
bers but by the expert knowledge or experience of the members.
Of the two types of agencies, the non-partisan type perheps, should
be developed more beceuse & given progrem cen be accomplished with less
difficulty when members ere not bound by perty policies end alignments.
11

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.98)
Generally the members of non-pertisan bodies are prompted by opinions
based on their own or ecquired knowledge end experience. Bi-partisan
egencies efford too great an opportunity for political party influence
to determine the course of public affairs. Frequently, because of politi-
cally minded members, deadlocks result, squabbles cen be ourrent, and
hence at times, little can be accomplished by the body. However, bi-
pertisan agencies do not elweys "go bad."
In the locel governments of Jepan todey, nethods very as to manner
in which members are selected for the differeni egencies. Some commit-
tee members are electeu by all the voters fron the citizens in general,
for exemple: Local Soard of Educetion. Some nay be elected by e select
group of electors fron a select group of citizens, for example: Agri-
cultural Lend Commission or Locel Agriculturel Adjustment Committee and
Conmittee for Land Readjustment. Sone mey be appointed by the meyor with
the consent of the essembly, for exemple: the Public Safety Commission.
the Inspection Connission, the Welfere Cormissioner Nominetion Conference.
Some may be appointed by the mayor alone, for esmple: the Human Excre-
ment Disposel Conmittee, nd the Construction Planning Committee.
Sone mey be appointed by the mayor with the airice of. en organization
outside the city government such as the Agriculturel Cooperative Associa-
tion of similer group, es for exemple:
the City Election Commission on
Agricultural Lend Comnissioners provided in Imperial Ordinance No. 38 of
25 Jenuary 1946 as the Ordinance Concerning the Operation of the Agri-
culturel Land Adjustment Law. Some may be eppointed by the assembly alone,
for exemple: the Election Administretion Conmittee. The number of the
members on these agencies todey renge from three to one hundred, depend-
ing on the kind or purpose of the comnittee.
As has been mentioned, the law or by-law cresting a perticular
agency deternines its functions end its composition, whether bi-partisen
or non-partisen. The law or by-lew usuelly provides elso for the nuaber
of nembers to serve on the cormittee. The issue in government of determ-
ining the practical or menageeble number of members who are to compose
the egency is en importent matter. The membership must not be so large
12

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
as to meke the committes unvieldy. Decisions are hard to arrive 
governmental bodies of unwieldy membership. Moreover, when any a
is large. it is common practice for members to feel that their own
presence at the sessions or work outside is not necessary because there
are so many other members to participete in the activities. In this way
many menbers avoid their responsibility; some in a selfish manner, others
unwittingly. Membership of a cormittee should be just large nough to
make each member feel that he or she shares an equal responsibility with
every other menber of the egency in meking the decisions. In the United
States the cormon totals for the number of members of nearly all import-
ant public commissions or boards are 3, 5, 7 and 9; by far the greater
number of independent egencies is conposed of but 5 nembers.
In Jepan a member mey or may not heve to devote his full time to
the work of the locel governnent agency. For e great nany agencies no
fixed or definite period of time cen be clocked out beforehand to be
devoted to the work of the committee. These facts are found in the
United States slso. The anount of time he or she spends in comnittee
work depends entirely on the function, its reletive inportance and the
anount of work required by it. Police comnissions neet regularly all
year long; boards of education neet regulerly during the school year;
election adninistretion committees neet infrequently end advisory bodies
meet infrequently.
Committees, conmissions or boerds, have regulations and rules of
procedure by which they edminister their function end conduct their ses-
sions. In Japen quite detailed rules of procedure are provided for by
the Diet or locel governnent organizing the agency, that is, the law,
cebinet order, ninisteriel rule or local by-law will enunerete most all
the essentiels. The training and fondness of the Japenese bureeucracy
in Tokyo to supervise, to control end to regulate enything end every-
thing that they cen lay clutching hands upon, has led then to prescribe
for thenselves to execute matters and effeirs which are fundementel to
the established egency. Only the fewest funaenentels belong in the or-
ganic law or locel government by-law.
13

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
Discretion in exercised powers and flexibility of manarement de
that rules of procedure be adopted and promulgated by the agency itself
under its own authority; thus the agency itself can cope with moderating
or altered situaticns. Steted in another manner, such an egency has the
inherent authocity or puwer to formulate its own rules to administer the
function for which it is created.
Universel practice demands that the regulation and rules of procedure
should contain all of the details necessary for the agency to function
properly. Among the more important items these should provide for:
1. The selection of e cheirman and a vice cheirman from emong
the members.
2.
The proper notice of celling a meeting.
3. The establishment end schedule of reeular meetings.
4. The authority to call special sessions.
5. The keeping of minutes.
6.
The percentage of members to constitute & quorum.
4
7. The method or methods of voting.
8. The disciplineiy action egainst membors.
9. Orgenization of the secretariat and personnel.
10. Policy relations with executive subordinate steff.
11.
The esteblishment of sub-conmittees.
12.
The preparation of its budget.
13.
The making of an agenda.
14.
The presentation of matters by eny person to the agency.
15.
The conduct of hearings.
16.
The announcement of decisions.
17.
The issuance of orders.
18.
The preparation of reports.
19. Recording of criminal and civil cases in which committee is involved.
20.
The relations with cther governmental agencies, in particular,
the offices of the procurator end the ccurts.
21. The use ci nin-use of its properties by the public.
14

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
22. The attendance of visitors at the sessions.
23. Relations with the press.
A conmittee, cormission or board, is nornnlly presided over by the
chairman, or in his bsonce by the vice chairmen in the regular scheduled
sessions or special weetings. The chairman or person authorized to call
the speciel neeting has the secretariat send out notices to the members
stating the time and the business to be discussed. Special matters are
always specified in the call notice to allow members ample opportunity
to prepare for the mecting.
The agency's neetin's, es e rule, should be open so that the public
can have en opportunity to attend. The press, also, should have free
access to the sessions to observe their activities so that they can keep
the public informed. The members of the body can never forget that it is
responsible for its ects elther directly or through a public official to
the public.
In Jepan, unlike meny agencies in the United States, particularly
boards of education, nost coraittees or boards have to look to the as-
sembly for the funds cn vhich they have to operete. However, it is nec-
essary for the agency in Japen to prepare a budget.
It then submits it
either directly or through en adninistrative section head, to the mayor,
who in turn, includes it in his reguler budget which he subnits to the
assembly. This budget includes renuneration for its members, salary for
the secretery, for any other clerks that the committee needs, end other
operating expenses thet ney legally be required. There is little ques-
tion but that these independent agencies should heve more control over
their budgets.
The independent egencies of governnent which have the greater author
ity and more enunereted powers nornally make meny decisions, issue orders
end have court ceses, criminel end civil. The chronological record of all
these is. the heart of the egency's work. These decisions, orders and
cases become the furdarental guide for future ection. They should be
printed end issued yearly with en appropriate title sudh es "The Report
15

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.97)
-
of Such and Such an Agency, 1949."
Minutes of the agency's neetings comprise its "little policy and.
operational file; they are kept by the secretery. Such ninutes are kept
as a matter of record.
This record is most important for the purpose of.
member reference. Verificetion of ection at a previous session is re-
quired frequently. Also, because of membership changes through death,
resienation, and expiretion of office, the agency's continuity of opera-
tion is interrupted, hence, e proper record provided by the minutes fur-
nishes the new nembers their knowledge of whet the board or conmission
has done previously. Moreover, minutes elso cen provide a meens by which
officials or people interested in the effeirs of the egency cen study its
activities.
Much of the work of a committee is done other then in the regular
session. It is in. the neeting that discussion takes place, that votes
are taken and that decisions are nade. However. much work and study
have to be done by the individuel menbers outside the confines of their
offices. They have to euconplish nuch before they can discuss intelli-
gently the problen at hand and nake a wise and sound decision concerning
it. Members often must nrke investigetions of their own. They certainly
should verify evidence as well es get the opinions of persons who know
something about the matter. In searehing and seeting out these opinions
a cross section of the citizenry cen be interviewed to adventage. Small
shopkeepers, fermers, and the like have crystallized opinions of their
own just es do professionel nen and persons of academic treining. Their
practical views of city affeirs ought not to be overlooked.
It sometimes happens that the ground work for a finished discussion
et a regular or specicl session has to be done by a sub-committee appoint-
ed for that purpose and to bring in inforration on which the comnittee
can act.
Releticns with the Courts
Because of the most inportant relationship, of the comnittee, the
1
conmission or the board, directly or indirectly with the courts, special
attention must be directed to it.
16

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
The orders and decisions of the guasi-legislativs, quasi-jud
and quasi-administrative agencies are binding on the people. The orde
and decisions heve to be obeyed by citizens. The precise reason why the
law created the egeney was. that it would regulate and supervise some a
tivity and that citizens would conforn. However, the person whose con
duct is affected by the orders end decision and who feels that he or she
does not heve to conform to the order or rulings, certeinly hes the right
under law to contest the agency's rulings. Meny legel disputes end law
suits will teke place.
The eggrieved pariy comes to court complaining that the conmittee's,
conmission's or board!s orders or rulings ere oppressive and unreasonable.
These two terms meen thet the plaintiff feels the rulings to be arbitrary,
capricious or outright confiscatory of his or her rights.
The court's furctions ere (1) to determine whether the commission has
statutory authority to act, whether its acts were reasonable, and then. (2)
to tell the parties what they must do, either plaintiff or defendent.
When the orgenic act setting up the egency is well drefted and clear, the
judge has little difficuity in deciding the competency of the board. The
judge may then decide whether the boerd's action was reesonable. He does
so by finding out (1) whether or not the action conforms to the law, (2)
whether or not the action wes, before being teken, besed upon competent
evidence or findings, and (3) whether or not it was issued arbitrarily.
Thus it is that the decisions of committees, boerds end commissions
are subject to judiciel review in the courts of Jepan. Not only can their
decisions be reviewed but in certein cases they cen be restrained. The
agencies can be enjoined by injunctive relief from having their orders
cerried out pending the final decision in the proceeding for review. The
authority for such legal ection is found in "The Lew for Speciel Regula-
tions concerning the Procedure of Adninistretive Litigetions" being Law
j
No. 81 of 1948. Article 10 of the Lew provides for injunctive relief.
For example, an election connittee can be enjoined fron holding a recall
election when a showing of irreparable damege can be made. Injunctions
17

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
granted in the Okayama district court. Injunctions were denied in
cases in Hiroshina and Mito district court. In this type of case the
conmittee,' board or cormission is mado the defendent. It is purely a
civil procseding end the plaintiff or moving party is represented by
his or her own private lawyer and not by the public procuretor. The
courts in Japen should not hesitate at any time to grant relief against
all such agencies which act illegally, exceed their authority, do not
have their decisions supported by the lew or elequete evidence.
When the case is being decided in court, the judges rerely will
substitute their judgment for those of the pariies et court when they
find only good feith end no irprovidence or inefficiency, Furthermore,
in deciding such irportent cases, the judges must edjudicete the full
rights of both the public end the compleining perties. The public as
one litigant is entitled to no more fron the other litigent then fair
protection to the governmont's authority or to no more return than the
services given ere reasonably worth. The individurl or company as the
other litigant is entitled to fair action or vate from the public on
what has been perforred ior the public's convenience. Very importent
for the judge in makine his decision is whether the litigent on his or
her part has acted wilfully. However, it nust not be forgotten at all
that one of the great duties of eny court in representative government
is to protect the individial citizen fron illegal, arbitrery and cepri-
cious acts of public officials. Upon meking decision the judge then
instructs the plaintiff or the defendent that the order must be or need
not be carried out.
When asgrieved parties cone to court, involving these quasi-agencies,
badly drafted laws regarding their powers end athority confuse everyone.
The agency's position and the action taken by it are challengeable and
weak. The compleinins partyis position is not too clear either; it can
be placed in confusicn. hen such bediy drefted laws mix the govern-
ment's position and citizen's rights and a suit started by either arises
18

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.98)
●
in court, an evil day results for many. Pity the fudge who, bed
of weird provisions in the lew, must sit alone in his chambers with 
ice pack and towels round his dizzy head attempting to fathom a legis
letive blunder which instead should heve been a correctly drafted arti-.
cle of law: The legal snarl and kink in the bedly drafted law vex and
torment the best of legel minds. The judge has before him the plain-.. 
tiff's brief which at first appears alright, end then suddenly they be-
come blurred as does the photograph in the pan of bed developer fluid.
This diseppointment ceuses the judge to send for more ice and on secur-
ing it. he ad justs it and the towels round his heed! He then picks up
the brief of the attorneys for the defendent. This brief at first looks
tenable, then unfortunately,it too becomes murkey because of the plurel
interpretations erising from the erticles of the badly drafted law. The
judge does not hesitete, he orders more icel With fatigue; the. judge
puts both briefs eside, picks up his brush end with his deep conviction,
begins to write and declare his owm mind. Herdly hes he begun when he
realizes that his interpretstions of the lew ere quite et variance from
those of either of the contending parties' ettorneys.
After a slight hesitetion the judge decides that there cen be no
reconciling of these possible interpretetions. Suddenly, right through
his chember door, comes a hollow but sincere voice!
It is the voice of
the assembly! The voice resps out, "Whet we really meant, when we
passed this bill is this, only this!" The judge quickly answers the
voice, "But you did not stete it so!" However, the voice is gone and
there is no reply! The judge hes no help from anyone; he finds himself
in e futile situetion, Gun-vo o Karite, Moko o Semu. To atteck the.
wild tiger with & herd of sheep, all the judge cen do is to order more
ice end then finish his work as he views it himself. This irksome but
solemn tesk is his responsibility.
Fully epert from all of the cases in civil litigetion in which the
committees, boards and conmissions may become involved, there is the
wide field of criminel violations.
These ere elweys handled by the
19

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.97)
procuratorst office. Violations of the organic act, cabinet orderd
regulation of the agency carrying a criminel penalty should be rigorm
ously enforced in the criminal courts by the procurators. For exemple.
circulators of a recail petition who obtain signatures through freud or
forged signetures, vilfully or unintentionally, to the petition, violate
the cebinet order and should be prosecuted by the procurator's office.
When the egency cen furnish the evidence to secure the conviction, it
certainly is duty bound to do so. In all instances in which the agency
does furnish the evidence, it of course is not a direct party in the
criminal proceedings.
The committee, commission or board mey or may not win its cese in
court. The imoortent facts are that the agency goes to court to have its
orders enforced end thet, regerdless of outcome, the orderly processes
of government are carried out. These orderly processes of government de-
mand the continuous use of the principle mede cleer in the Japanese pro-
verb, Horitsu wa. Hito o erabazu: The law mekes no choice of persons.
●
Required Committees. Commissions end Boards under Ley
In Japan todey a sound beginning has been made in the use of inde-
pendent agencies for the edministration of particular functions in local
government. Hajime ga deiii. Some exemples will be cited es to what the
laws provide, both for the type whose ectivibies directly affect the
people  the quasi-judicial, the quesi-legislative and the quasi-edminis-
trative, and the type whose activities affect only an office and are
wholly edvisory. Moreover, some commenteries will be advanced.
The Election Aaministration Committee. This egency, required
to be a part of the locel public entities of Japan, is the only one of
its type provided for in the Chihojichiho.
It is established in Chapter
VII, Section II in the provisions of Article 181.
The totel functions of this Committee are derived from the Chihojichiho
and other laws and their cebinet orders.
The Lew for the Licction of Members of the House of Councillors and
its Cabinet Order No. 191 of 29 July 1948: the Law Concerning the National
20

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.97)
n
Election Management Conmission, Lnw No. 15kror?
Concerning the Provisional Exception to Eleotion 
Law No. 196 of 29 July 1948, and the Law for mleation
of Representatives. Lew No. 47 as of 5 May 1923 and, amandment
Thus the functions of the city Committee are to conduat all
elections, end all prefectural and city elections within the cityl
and to deolare each election, These involve (1) proper registration of
voters, proper voting, counting of votes, dotermination of valid votem
announcements of results, receiving compleints end eppeals and making of
decisions.
In executing these functions, the city Committee in addition to en-
forcing materiel articles of the laws, cabinet orders end instructions.
from the Netional Election Manegement Commission. formulates rules and
regulations of its own under Article 194 of the Chihojichiho which the
candidates for elections, the political parties and the voters at large
must obey. Complaining parties cen appeal to the courts for relief from
these decisions. The city Committee. therefore, has many elements Just
like those of the quesi-judicial and quasi-legislative types of egencies.
As was stated above, these particular types meke decisions and formulate
policies in the edministration of their affairs.
The city Committee, like others in the prefectural. town end villege
governments, is responsible under the Chihojichiho to the public directly
for its conduct of ell locel elections. Article 4 of the Lew Concerning
National Election Management Commission is contrary to the Chihojichiho
for this local menegement; it elso cleerly violates the intent and pur-
poses of Chepter VIII of the Constitution for administering local effairs.
This portion of Article 4 should be deleted fron the Lew.
When the city Committee is conducting netionel elections, the four
lews as given above apply; national supervision cen be exercised. The
city Committee is mede up of four members elected by the city assembly
for a term of 2 years from emong those persons who heve a right to vote.
They are subject to recall procedure. The legel quorum necessary for the
Committee to conduct ite affeirs is three. The city essembly can. if it.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
desires, elect en equal number of supplementary members,
cannot be more then one from eny one political party. A dommit
cannot be concurrently a member of the Diet, a public procuratom. a go
ernment police offisirl or e member of the Public Safety Commission.
Furthermore, he or she cennot be a cendidate for any elective position in
the city.
These requiremonts ere similer to those under which the Board of
Elections functions in the City of New York. The Commissioners are ap-
pointed by the city concil upon the recommenaetion of the two major
political perties; they serve a term of four years end continue until.
their successor is appointed end has qualified. The president end the
secretary ere selected by the Board end cennot be of the same political
organization. The Boerd has a chief clerk, a deputy end en office in
each one of New York City's five boroughs.
The city Committee in the administration of the elections has great
responsibility. The problens erising fron candidetes' excessive campaign
expenditures or use of literature on speeking, call for patience, common
sense and rigorous enforcement of the laws. The conmitteenen cannot be
timid with these public duties.
This-is the Committee which receives petitions for recall. The com-
mitteenen before eccepting the petition fror: the responsible parties
should make these people testify that the petition is in complete con-
fornity with the Chihojichino end its Cabinet Orders. People starting
petitions cennot feien ignorence of their legel requirenents; they must
be held responsible under the lew. The conmitteemen only invoke an
election if the petition celling for it
hes the velid signatures of the
registered voters of the city. Husbends cannot sign petitions legally
for their wives nor cen wives sign petitions for their husbands.
The signing of e petition by & citizen to cell en election is a
public act in the seme sense thet voting is. The individual citizen as
e voter is the only person who cen place his or her bellot in the box;
no other person can do this for hin or her. Under Article 94 of the
22

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.97)
Gabinst Order No. 16 of 3 Nay 1947 as ama
tration Committee must examino the eignatures egeinst
ter. It is not enough for the cormitteemen simply to find that
name is in the votere: register. This, of course, doee not mean th
Committee go for deys checking each signature house by housel. Thay r
quired to be and they must be gatisfied that the signing and sealing as
demanded by Article 93 of the Chihojichiho is performed individually by
the voter. Whet cen the Comnittee do in suspicious ceses? It can in-
vestigate, teke testimony and call in writing experts to confirm genuine-
ness of signatures. The Connittee should not accept petitions which.do
not heve the required number or percentege of slanatures. Petitions in
which the signatures ere forged wilfully or unintentionally, and in
which insufficient velid sienatures exist for the requirement, should be re-
Jected; the Committee should then turn these papers over to the procurater.
immediately for prosecution.
The Election Administration Committee hes definite relations with
the Office of the Mayor end wich the city assembly. The Committee must
meke out its own budget for its nornal operations end for those extra ex-
penses which are ceused by the elections thenselves. The Lew provides
that the budget will be submitted through the Cffice of the Mayor to the
essembly. The members of the Comnittee shoul? be interested to follow
their budget through the various offices and to final enectment of the
general or speciel buaget by the city assembly.
The Committee's relation with the assenbly is not only the financial
one to which reference has just been given es coning from the Office of
the Mayor with regard to the budget. but also in terms of the provisions
in Article 121 ond Article 125 of the Chiho jichihe. Menbers of the Com-
mittee must appeer before the city assembly to mako explenations with re-
gard to the work of the Committee if the cheirnen of the essembly requests.
own
Moreover, the city essembly ney sdopt petitions of its end forward them to
the Conmittee for action end the Cormittee is duty bound to make a report to.
the assembly of its progress and of the ection taken with regard to this
request.
oz

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
The Election A': inistration Comnittees should amsert the
in adniniatration nore forcefully. The members of the administ
fairs departments or sections are the subordinate officials for the Co
mittee. These officiels iske direction and supervision from the Committee
on adninistering the elections and on preparing financial statements and
the budget. The Cornittee's rules and regulations for the personnel af-
fairs of the subordinate executive staff should be unmistakably clear.
The Public Safety Comnission
The Police Law in Chepter III, Section 1, Article 40, places cleerly
the authority and power of law enforcement and policing in every city of
Japan and certain other autonomous entities: "Cities and urban communi-
ties having five thousand population or over (hereinafter called cities,
towns and villages) shall be resporsible for the naintenance of police
end enforcement of law end order within their boundaries."
In the sane clear manner, Article 43 pleces the control of the police
authorities in the Public Safety Commission: "There shall be established.
under the jurisdiction of the mayors of cities end headnen of towns and
villages Public Safety Connissions of cities, towns and villages to control
the police within the boundaries of the respective cities, towns and vil-
lages."
It is absolutely fundamental to the understending and solving of law
enforcenent problens in Japan that Article 54 of the Police Law be kept
in mind: "There shall exist neither administrative nor operational control
by the Netional Rural Police over the police of cities, towns end villages.
These police shall be obligated to cocperate with each other."
Thus it is that the purposes of this nunicipal systen ere (1) to place
the responsibility of policing in local jurisdiutions; (2) to repose in the
local conmunities one of the nost impoe tent govonmental functions; and (3)
to have the Public Sefety Connission control the police within the boundaries
of the city.
The Conmission, thercfore, because of its polisy-making authority be-
ing within the executive channel - that is, under the meyor's jurisdiction -
is a guasi-adninistrative agency. However, it also has rule-meking power
of its own for the establishnent of certain policies of law enforcement

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
which the chief of police will, cause the police force to
The Diet,, in 'enacting this Lew, has taken every preoauttur
that the members of the Commission are (1) persons who have at
record, (2) free of puy pressure which might influence their decisid
and (3) persons in whom the taxpayers cen have the utnost confidence 
their integri'y snd honesty. It is these conmissioners who determine the
type of police officers and the police force that the city both can and
will possess.
The neyor of. the city appoints, with the consent of the city assenbly,
the three connissioners, each of different politicel party affiliations.
fron among those persons who have the right to be elected to the assembly
and who do not come within the restrictions of (1) having been in the police
service (2) having held a public appointive office, (3) being a non-rehabil-
itated bankrupt, (4) heving been sentenced to inprisonment, (5) being con-
currently a nember of an essembly, (6) being on the peyroll of a metropolis,
district or prefecture, (7) being en officiel of a politicel party or other
political organization, end (8) being e person, who, on or- after the date
of the enforcement of the ccnstitution of Japen, has orgenized or joined
a political party or any other organization advoceting destruction by vio-
lence of the Constitution of the government created thereunder.
A member of the Public Safety Conmission rolas office for a period of
three years. He may, however, be reappointed. In case of vacancy for any
reason, the new comnissioner eppointed to fill the vacancy serves only
during the unexpired term of his predecessor. Moreover, a connissioner
automatically loses his soat on the Conmission if he (1) becones a non-
rehabilitated bankrupt, is sentenced to inprisonnent, (2) joins a political
perty to which another nenber belones, (3) becomes a member of a political
party or other organization edvocating the overthrow of the Constitution
or government by force, or (4) is recalled under the recall provisiuns of
the Law Concerning Local Autonomy. No nenber nay be disnissed against his
will unless disnissed by the meyor with the consent of the assembly because
he has becone incepaciteted, hes violated his official obligations or con-
nitted "an act ill befitting e menber" of the cornittee. The escertainnent
25

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.97)
the Lew it is an issue which the mayor end essembly miet detarrine jai
For purposes of comparison of some of the provisions of the Police
Law just enumerated, a snort statenent regarding the police struoture in
New York City can be made.
The police cormissioner es heed of the police department is eppointed
by the mayor for a 5 year tern end is removable at the pleasure of the mayor
or the govemor of the state. Any commissioner so renoved cannot be re
eppointed. Vecancies must be filled within 10 days. Neither tho commis-
sioner, nor eny member of the force, can accept eny other public office or
any nomination for en elective office. No member of the police force can
contribute any money to any politicel fund or become a member of any club
or association either directly or indirectly intended to affect legislature
dealing with the police department or any particuler member. The police
commissioner is assisted by 6 deputies. For the executive offices elso.
there is a secretary, e chief engineer, e secretary to the police conmis-
sioner, a chief surgeon, ε property clerk, a superintendent of buildings
end a superintendent of telegreph. Moreover, the police force is one of
slightly more than 15,000 men.
In every city of Japen the functions of tre police for law enforcenent
are provided for through Article 41 and entuieraied in paragraph 2 of Arti-
cle 2:
"1. Maintenance of public order;
2.
Protection of life end prcperty;
3.
Prevention end suppression of crines;
4.
Detecion of crimes and apprehension of suspects;
5.
Contrel of trefric:
6.
Serving of watreats of arrest end of detention
and other affairs ordored y the Gout, uage or
Public Procurator end provaded for by o."
The Commission through its own rules of procedure and its reguletions
should inplenent. each of these six povers explisitiy to show its own duties.
The Commission's ovm athhority is thus mede clear as to what it can and as
to what it will do in ceriying out its funetions.
The Connission's executive subordinate is the chief of police. The
Commission appoints hin, end for cause dismisses him, in accordence with
26

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.98)
the city's by-lews as provided in Article 47. The to
and dismissal belongs to the Conmission - not to the rayor
assembly. The Commission approves the chief's eppointment and at
of the junior police officers. The Conmission at regular interval
sit in review of its policies which it hes instructed end directed that
the chief of police carry out. This the Conmission can do by having the
chief report directly on such natters. The Comnission should have real
confidence in the chief; it should give the chief responsibility and then
hold hin liable for ell of it. As the highest operational officer, the
chief must be held liable.for these duties. If he cannot perform then,
the Conmission hes tte duty to dianiss him end not keep hin in offige be-
cause es a little boy he wes once very kind to cets or because his father
one tine received a very nice letter fron some Deijin. The Commission
must deel with the police force through the police chief. It nust beck
up the chief's decisions. If these should be wrone, the Conmission should
correct then with the chief personally end not with the police force.
The Police Law in Article 54 provides that the National Rural Police
end Municipal Police will cooperate end coordinate on lew enforcement af-
fairs; in Article 56 it provides thet the chiefs of police of the respec-
tive systens will be the liaison officers. In tines of stress or emergency,
the Commission, not the meyor nor the assembly. has the legal power and
must meke the decision of whether or not to call in the Nationel Rurel
Police for essistence, Article 55.
Like other committees or boerds, the Commission has definite relations
with the Office of the Mayor end the assembly. Sone of these ere executive
in character, others ere edvisory or of a recommendationel nature.
On matters of finance, especially the budget for the police, the Com-
mission sends its budget to the Office of the Mayor for transmittel to the
assembly. The police budget end police financing heve to be studied care-
fully by the Connission. Moreover, the Commission should follow the police
budget through to finel enectrent of the city's generel or special budgets.
The financing of the municipel police force for adequate administra-
tion needs concerted and direct attention. A conplete overhauling of the

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.98)
tax struoture has to be nade so as to allow the local publié
quate sources of revenue. They have been forced to take the t
left-overs from the centrel government for 50 years and that period is
long enough! Their finencial condition todey is most critical.
In its recommendetional capacity the Conmission should adviss the
nayor on generel conditions of lew end order in the city. The informe-
tion should not be guesswork; the nayor should be given a good account.
Because the mayor is the executive authority in the city, he has ideas
end develops plans in connection with law enforcenent. The Conmission
can well meke reconmendations for chenges in or further enactment of new.
by-laws on law enforcenent.
The Comnission's reletions with the assenbly, other than those aris-
ing in terms of its work on which communication is desired, ere specified
in the laws. In the Police Law in Article 45 the municipal governnents,
by neans of by-laws, establish within thcir boundaries "the looation, name
and jurisdiction of eech police station end the nene and organization of
the headquarters of the police." The Connission nust advise the assenbly
on all these importent af:airs.
In terms of the Chihojichiho, Article 121 end Article 125, the con-
missioners can be asked by the assembly chairman to appear before the as-
sembly end there explain particular natters. Also, if the assembly sends
e petition of its own to the Conission for ection, the Conmission has
to report back not only its work of progress but also its finel results.
It is most importent that Jepen develop governmental responsibility
in the locel administration of police affeirs end law enforcenent. It is
vital to sound locel zovernment. Englend in its long renerkable history
hes not had a national unified police systen eppointed and controlled by
the centrel governnent. The police systen in Englend is a series of local
police forces, each with e proud end singuler history. In the United
States each city, town end villege has its local police authority. Viewed
by democratic stendards, the spy systen which developed end stands out on
the Continent of Europe is a bad substitute for a police force. In repre-
sentative government each citizen has the opportunity of perticipating in
28

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
the preservation of lew enforcement end maintone
herrowing days of local povernment finencing in Jepen 
rent or used as an excuse to bungle or nisuse. the locel munigips
systen. Local government financing is poor today; it can and mst be
died.
The Looal Bosrd of Bducation
The Locel Board of Education is a quasi-legislative authority. This
legel fact is mede plain in Article 53 of the Boerd of Education Law:
"The Board of Educetion may legislate the regulations of
the Board of Educetion concerning the affairs under their con-
trol, as long as such regulations are not contrary to the laws
end ordinances.
"The reguletions of the Boerd of Education shall be publicly
ennounced in confornity to a stated form of public notice."
The Board is responsible directly to the public for its educational
progran. It is not under the jurisdiction of the nayor nor is it responpi-
ble to hin. It is not under the jurisdiction of the assenbly, but it has
certain responsibilites to the assenbly.
The Locel Board of Education, established by the Diet, should be or-
ganized in all cities, towns and villages by J November 1952. The Board
is composed of five nerbers, four of whom are elected by the people and one
is elected by the city assenbly from among is menbers. The tern of office
is four years. Half of the members are elocted every two yeers but the
assembly menber holds his seet only during his term of office. Those per-
sons who have the right to vote for or who are eligible for membership in
the city assembly nay vote for or be e member of the Locel Board of Educa-
tion. However, a nenber cannot concurrertly be a member of an assembly,
e netional public official or a paid member of a local public body or a
menber of a Prefectural Boerd of Educetion.
The election of meribers of the Local Boerd of Education generally
follows the provisions in the Law Concerning Locel Autonomy which control
the election of meribers of the city assembly. There ere sone exceptions;
however. For example, e. candidate for this Board nust be reconmended by
sixty voters but he does not have to make a deposit with the Election Ad-
ministration Conmittee. At the election, those candidates receiving the
29

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
greatest number of effective votes become elected members of
The members of the Local Boerd of Education are subject to reoall just
as the menbers of the city assenbly are, the same rules epplying for each.
The Board of Educetion is a most importent one. It takes charge of
and executes affairs concerning education, science, and culture, Article4.
2
However, it has no jurisdiction over higher educetional institutions or
private schools unless so authorized by law. As Article 55 in paregraph 2
provides, the Local Boerd of Education is not under the direction of the .
Mombusho or the Profectural Board of Educetion. Its nain purpose is to see.
that the adninistration of education is free of undue pressure end based
upon the popular will: also that its educetionel progran neets the actual
needs of the connunity.
Under Article 49 of the Law, the Board is charged with 18 enunerated
fuctions. Sunmerized, these have to do with (1) the establishnent, manage-
ment, operation and control of schools, (2) the selection of text books,
(3) the appointment and disnissal of teachers, (4) the curriculum to be
taught, (5) the preparaticn of the budget, and (6) sociel education. Other
such subjects fall within the consideration end determination of this Board.
Since all these matters cre of prinary concern to the people in a connunity.
the meetings of the Boerd are generelly open to the public, so that the
public can listen to the deliberetions and cen have an opportunity to hear
the entire discussion on matters which affect then so vitally.
Broadly speakinz, this Board is responsible to the citizens as a whole
for its entire program. This is the cese despite the fact that the opera-
tionel affairs seen entirely directed to school children and their parents
or concerned relatives.
The executive subordinate to the Board is the Superintendent of Educa-
tion. He is eppointed by the Board end becomes its chief executive officer.
Special confidence should be reposed in hin es a technically trained person.
The policy of the Boerd is to be executed by the Superintendent in coopere-
tion with the staff. He should meke recomnendetions. on the progress and
results of his work and the Board should "sit in review" in terms of these
reports as well as its whole progrem. Should the Superintendent becone
30

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.98)
incapacitated or incompetent, he should be diemissed.
police function, the educational function is too sigmificent in tha
of the country to permit poor administrators to perform it.
The Board of Educstion hes reletions with the Office of Mayor and
assembly. The most sienificent one with the former is the budget. Unlike
the condition in the United States the Board in Jepan does not possess in-
dependent financial status. This power it should have; if not that, then
at least separetion from Okurasho and Mombusho. On finencial affairs the
Board must work up its own budget carefully. After sending it to the Office
of Mayor, the Board should follow it through to final passage in the general
or special budget. Although the Board has jurisdiction in operetion and con-
trol of school properties under the Lew in Article 49, it must consult on
matters of ownership with the mayor on school builcines end construction
beceuse he is responsible for city government's owmership of all public
buildings. Once the properties ere assigned for school purposes, the Board
essumes the control which includes ebolishment of schools or their use by
political or religious groups. For the latter purposes the Boerd must ex-
ercise greet discretion end insure equel trestment.
The Board's reletions with the essembly ere not only such matters as
local bonds for educetion, Article 61, end besic property and reserve funds,
Article 6l, but elso others. In dealinz with the assembly the Boerd should
discuss its budget at the assembly's mein budget hearings, Articles 56-60.
The assembly determines the emount of remuneration tho Boerd's members can
receive, Article 61. It is the assembly that decides upon the number of
teachers and of other pe:sonnel connected with educational edninistration,
Articles 31, 45, 61 end 66. The Board, like al1 committees or commissions
in their relations with the assembly, must edhere to ticle 12l and Arti-
cle 125 of the Chihojichiho.
Permissive Agencies under Lnw Established throurh By-Jaws
As hes been explained earlicr, the national laws cen either require
the esteblishment of cormittees, commissions end boards in the local govern-
ments or grant euthority to the locel fovernment to creete them et will.
The Inspection Committee, es provided for in Article 195 of the Lew
Concerning Locel Autonomy, is not compulsory in e city. es ere the three

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.97)
agencies discussed above. This Cormaittee must be eetabl
1aws.
This Conmittee hes for its function the inspection of any ents
cerried on by the city nnd of the edninistration of the financial affalve
of the city. The inspection must be perforned as least once a year
competent administrative official of the city or the assembly can make
demand upon the Cormittae for en inspection at eny time. The Committee.
on the other hand, can initiate its own investigation at any time. The
result or reporc of the inspection is nade to th officiel or assembly re-
questing it, after which it is made public.
In a city in which an Inspection Committee is established. it is com-
posed of either two or four nembers. They ere eppointed for two years by
the mayor with the consent of the essembly. Moreover, the nembership is
divided equally fron anong the menbers of the assembly end fron among per-
sons having srecial knowledge and experience. An Inmspection Connittee
member cannot concurrently be e paid official of a lccel public body, a
public procurator, & zovernment or local police official,  a revenue offi-
cial. or A menber of a Public Safety Conmission.
The Inspection Committee hes enother very importent function to per-
form in case e citizen of the city is of the opinion that the meyor, the
chief accountent or treesurer or other public officiel, has made en unlaw-
ful expenditure or hes squandered public funds or wasted public property
or has executed or perforned an unlawful or ul  a vires contract. The
citizen can nake a denend upon the Inspection Connissioners to meke an in-
spection end to restrain, enjoin and prohibit the act. The citizen in do-
ing so attaches to the denand his or her written proof of the charges.
For this particular type of case the Cornittee has to nake an inspection
within twenty days. If it determines that the derand is correct, it orders
the mayor to restrain, enjoin or prohibit the ect. If it finds that there
is no justificetion for the demend, it notifies the person who hes nede the
denend to that effect.
By provisions. of the Chihojichiho, Article 12l end Article 125, this
Comnittee cen elso be celled for questioning before the essenbly, and it

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
can be made to meke a report tovthe nssambly on-ma
as a result of an assembly's petition. The menbers of thi
are also subject to recell by the people.
The Inspectior Comnittee has great power to see that the arfain
of the city ere prcperly adninistered end to see that the interests of
 the people of the city are protected.
Agencies Esteblished under Municipal Powere
Fron what has been stated already, the issue is clear that the city
government has enureeted powers under Article 2. For the execution of
any one of these functions, both the mayor end the assenbly mey desire
a conmittee, cornission or board created in connection with it.  Any of
these cen be quesi-legislative, quesi-judicial or quasi-adninistrative;
they can, of course, be edvisory also.
The city government hes this authority end power to establish the
agency either with or without the assembly's ratificetion. The initia-
tive for esteblishment of the egency would nornelly be taken by the mayor.
but the assembly need not be too content to weit on the mayor should the
occasion in its judgnent denend solution by a covittee.
A number of cities in Jepen have established these conmittees for
varied purposes. A few exerples ere illustretive:
In Fukuoke there is the City Owned Evaluation Conmittee end the
Police Personnel Conmittee; in Kurune there is the Connittee for Hand-
ling Conpleints of City Employeos. In both cities the conmittees are
appointed by the nayor and are advisory to hin.
Summery:
Three Conelusions
The power and suthority of ell the local governments in Japen to es-
tablish independent egencies to perforn e perticular function should end
must be used with intelligence end real noderation. Good causes end good
reasons ought to be in evidence before connittees, commissions or boerds
are established. These egencies need not be esteblished simply to nake.
roon for sone person's forty.fifth cousin, especielly when the other forty-
four cousins ere already having lunch off the municipelity's unknowing
33

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.98)
taxpayersl Indeed, these egencies need not be eetalliahed aat
Monopoly or the Friends' Institution! A nunicipal government 
ment can easily be harpered or its euthority dissipated wilaly by amalsi-
plicity of offices end agencies. Friction dovelops, diecontent matures
and inter-deparinental jealousies becone rife; good governnent is vitiated
quickly and easily by overdoing the egencies. Moderation in nuiber or
function of agencies will produce no public censure or bad politicel re-
percussions.
When connittees, conmissions or boards ere created, their function
most assuredly is to perform the given task, to do the work; in short, they
are duty bound to produce: Who is to see that the agencies do produce?
How is it done? Does the checker or inspector close his eyes, squint with
one, or open both? Sone agencies report to the public, some to the mayor,
some to the assembly and sone to edministrative offices. Each of these
parties to whon the agency is responsible has the duty to check and to
evaluate results. If an egency does not or cannot produce, even after
change of personnel, the nayor nust abolish it or the essenbly legislate
it off the books. The keeping of useless agencies is just grounds for
wholesale criticism of tho city's governnent.
What should the nayor, the particular cifice, the assembly or the
city governnent as a whole do with the cornittee's, the connission's or
board's technical advice or professional recommendetion? Throw it away?
Use it to start an argument? Or file it safely in sone little dark corner
where none need see it? When an agency of technicelly experienced or pro-
fessionally trained persormel presents its findings and recormendations,
the public, the asserbly, the mayor or the adninistrative office - each is
duty obligated to reccive, to anelyze and to give the most careful atten-
tion. To go counter to a qualified agency's report, the burden is on the
perty doing so to produce the strongest evidence. Why have the agency
otherwise? Why use the texpeyerst money? Indeed, Honeori zon no katabire
moke: To lebor hard but to gain nothing but fatigue.
July 1949
34

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.81)
6
第八
市
地
方
計
FW 894.00
と
間
0
府
4
は
過
4
大
F
G
2
x
世

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.86)
2
共
内
の人民
6
0
2.
求めたこれ等の人民は同時に何を生

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.86)
人民は政府についてのこり優つた原則を生み出したとと
十それ故政府の主臣は人民欽志小れるのであります
治者と被治者の古い邪惡左臨係は王と臣民とゆ關係で
あろうが領主と忠とゆう關係であろうがすべてなく
なつたのてあります。新くして市民であり資格のあ
る選舉人であり斯くすることによいて實際に自らを
治めるとゆうことは人民にとつて正しい事となつたのて
あります。併し非當に分數の入民ぶ政府に直接に加す
ることは非實際的でありますので彼等の間から自由に
選擇し自由に選舉した代表者をして彼等のための政府を
織せしめることに決したのでありました。
斯くして西洋諸國に於てはこれらの都市が進歩し
發達する間に生活していた幾百為の人民は政府のとの
偉大なる原則を築き上げるために彼等の爲しとげた役
した。彼等は乙の偉大忘る道步定爲し遂げた以上止まる
ことがでをなかつたのでりまた彼等は力強く且勇
氣をもつて正しい目的に向いて前通したのでありました。
彼等は民主的諸原剛紀立定改府の註務之實行才る九め
に發達させ且乙れを更に發達させたのであります。才
ーストラリアカナダ二ュージーランドも亦同じ形の
生活を現に爲しつつありまか。
西洋諸國のとれらの大小の都市の歴史と經驗から學ぶ
ことのでをる第二の事實はこれらの人民が政府につい
ての他の原則を作り出したことであります。卽ち公共
3
特殊な權力と機構とを發達させたとゆうことであります
都市の住民の殆んどすべての者が興味を持つた都市内の

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.79)
した。諸都言はその事務を處理しその問を誤
ために時殊分緒力左遊注さ也特別の識題を作り上げ
たのでありましたい勿論この待別な行政機構は實的
な正しい解決をもたらしたのであります。との事は
そうだとゆう語では志りませんが多くの場合そうだっ
たのてす。これらの殊の齋力が必要でした。それらは
缺くことのできないのでした口同じ様に今日も亦とれ
らは必要であり缺くことのむきたいものてす人民が
都市とその周邊の區墳と多くの村々とを結合し新しい
政府又は大きな國家之作光とき紀彼等は論理的に
考えてその上う法改府四體力を國家に與えその領土
内に於て共通の利言關係のあるすべての事項を統制し
規律しようとしたのであうます。
併し彼等は特殊な地方の地方的問題を處理する權力は國
家に與えませんでした彼等は論理的に考えてとれら
の體力を地方的政府に遺しこれを地方的機關としたの
てありました。斯くして國家はその本來の基礎と偉大な
る力とを確保したのでありました。共通の利益のために
國家的に解決す催力は人民を國家的に結合します。
その地方地方に於て人民はとしての國家に生命
を次き込んだのでりました。
日に於て益あること
今日日本の諸都市に於てはすべてこれらの經驗の豊か
には先づ將來の筋之控いて見る乙之から仕事を初め
なければなりません
日本國憲法は西洋諸國の人民ぶ長い間かつて獲得
した第一の偉大原而卷日本の今ての人民のために
實行する乙と當混たので為日言今憲法は日本の主
本記於て政府巡卷○王之民又は領主之
奴とゆう古い觀念は否宗定詩でなく放棄された
憲法第三章を構成している三十一個餘は人民の權利

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.86)
なかんづくとれらの臨利義務が如何に貴重なものて
務を嚴肅に行うならばすべての人に對しその價値を示
すでしよう。
地方自治法は憲法煞八章充施行方るための法律であ
ます今日私共皆ぶ知つています上うに地方自治法は
地方公共團体の從的な僧力とその機帶を案出規定した
則を實現しているのであります増方自治法第一章第二
發動する一般的な機關を規定しています。他の法律で
附加的法又特別左德力を發動寸る附加的左又は特別な機
關を規定することもできます。
都市の定義
都市は一定の境域内の人民の集合体でその事務を處理
し經營する法人としで設立されたものであります。都
市は選舉さ九るか任命之九るか玄る一定の機關又は吏
員を持つている自治体であります。都市は特別の又は
一般的の認可又は特別の又は一般的の法律によつて作り
出されるもの為言す。
米國の市政府はふんな同じよう形の構造にはなつて
いません。ある市は委員會とゆう形式の機構をもつて
います。ある吉記は市長語問委員會於あ身ます又他
の市には市マネデアー支配人一がおふれています。一
般的に言つて市の政治機には三つの部門があると言え
ましよう。行政立法司法の三部門であります。又一
般的に言つてこの三部門は法律的には分離されていま
す。卽ち市長は彼又は彼女自身の事務所をもつています
議會もその事務所をもち裁判所もその事務所をもつ
5
ています。とうゆう組織の様式は司法制度以外は地方
自治法に規定されている日本の様式と同じです。日本で

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.72)
t。
英國の都市では市長は市又はボ口ー自治町
の一員であうさ。
多くのアメッ力の郡市ではその性格にだて獨立な機
於あり去寸即古教育委員會徑察委員會公國管理機
關は選舉民に對して直渡に貢任を員っています。
西洋の民主主義謂の自治恭では殆んとすべての市民が
後等自身の家庭の本而家屋農場土經工場老所有し之
その市民達は他の國人の監の人民に出べると私有財產
とゆう點で善し言出定言してきました米國の都市
はその住民の利金之忌之め為る事業之所有し乙れを經
營していま丈乙九合は通機開道ガス發電と
配電の組織の上ら左嚴密云益事業必ります。餅し
未だ曾って國家自身ぶ都言に手を無しその財產や事藥
を管理しようと考えたことはありません。實際米國の
市民はすべての財産や事業の國有とゆう狀態の存在を
許さないでしよう。そのような狀態は獨裁政治を許答し
その結果として個人の僧利が挨殺されて了うてしよう。
市民及び市民た石地位
地方自治法第二は市民たる地位について主として
定義を揭げてい之寸。た國家のみ市民たる地位を作
り出し乙九を與えることぶで言玄今。新日本のために
がこのように親定し同時に方自治法が乙れを詳
細に規定しています。
市民及び市民定之地位之功言葉は重要で為り亥
いろの意味もあま方○重要頭素は次の通りであ
ります市民と沙ら言は口一異り強大となつた
時代から今日巡長い匿處をもつていす卽ちそれはラ
テ語のとう言ふら由來したもの
であります民は而民のゆる利益を享
有していた人の張言屬ました市民權
とゆうラテン語ろべの權利及び特權
ーその性質ぶ宗欽的のものでも私法的のものでも

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.87)
政治的のものでもどれでもを行使する市民とゆ
意味であります。長い問市民とゆう言葉は市の住民と
ゆう意味に使われてぶらました。これは正しく都市に
方る言葉で六。更に非常に重要汝之とは市民は都市の主
僧の一部であるとゆう事實であります。すべての市民が
都市の主留者であつたのであり亥した。時代が移り都市
における人民と主霊との闆係と同様の關係を保ちつつ共
和國が出來上るに及んで市民とゆう言葉は國家にあ
てはめられるとうになり今日でもその意味に使われて
います。國家の市民としての人民は園家の主權者であり
位又は市民たる地位に相宮する地位があり得ないのであ
ります。此の事實は獨者が善い人で為るか惡い人であ
るか又はプごレタリヤの彌裁として宣傳されてい
るような人民の選擇したもの反は人民の代表者であるか
の如く堂々と氣取つている政爲であるかに關係なく常
に同じであります。
市民たる地位は多くの義務を伴つています。實際日
本人が「私は日本の市民であろ」と言う瞬問にその男
私の政府の利益に宏るからそれ等定實行しなければなら
ない。それ等は同詩に私の降八のになるであろう」
と言わなけれはならないし及その通り實行しなければな
らないのてありま口善良日本人ぶ何故こう言うので
しようか男又は女は何故その言うだしなければなら
ないと感じるのでしようか。その理中は代議的民主
的政府とゆう觀念ぶ他人に對してと同樣自分自身に對
し權利と義務とを作り出したのであり又それを實行す
ま女。西洋の民主主義國に於てその人民が彼等自身又
は彼等の近親のためばかりを考えそのためにのみ行動
したならばこれら諸國の政府は今日のようなものにな
るととがでをなかつたでしよう。勿論西洋諸國でも
5
多くの人は利己的であり冷い心を持つています。とれ
らの人が自分自身のために社會から得るととが出來ると

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.69)
ゆりような考えで毎日を送つているととは疑聞の
ために次に彼等の家族のたやに次に彼等の親戚のた
男でも女でも去闕のろ詩為て通り記出ると
きには彼又は經六注近姓私共の頭だ乙九は私共
のよい市の一こ共は市のためとも町のために
何かよいことをならと言うことおて
その團体の注で書民は何をするのてすか。彼又は
彼女は何をするこ心ぶ言るので方又市民は何をし
投票者としての市民
市民の左さね云ぬ議務の中で晨靈要左ものは法
律又は條例の規定に基く正規の選舉日に投票をすること
ばかりでなく公の父は私的の集會でその日のすべて
投票を寸るとゆ事は國家自依由來方る特權であ
ります。その國家はその結域内のすべての人民とそ
の府とから成立いているのです家はこの特權を資
格ある男女此與充六何之安乙の特權を行使さ
そのすべての人民節國成るすべての人民
上つて生命與之言三有機體でけ孔
ならないのでま方代歐の序ある正しい行動
は至くこの投さると沙の時權の正しい行使が法され
乙の時權と言多くの人問違て用
が承繼した又は男女法律の定為る年歸に達したときに
8
その個人が自動的取得今る為道經的の體利と考充ら
れるものーであると言わ礼てい玄

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.85)
具えなけれ
6
とつてより多く費用がかります。
日本に於ても候補者は同様無所屬のこともあり政黨

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.69)
から指名せられていることもあります。し日本
は侯補者を終局的に選擇し終局的に選披するととは
ますから日は個之の日本の市民は善い侯補者を
左りません乙の行事至彼人院任せてしまうならばぞ
は今日白
は誰であ身そ學曰候者然語るかとゆう乙と
老他から告げ九石國註今通心之上參卷市民於侯補者を
自由に決定し自由記方る國民主的左方法とは全
く違つた方法たとつているのでありま今。その國では事
制的歴迫紀つては誰此の人にのみ
投票也上之且そ九を強劉れているのて
あります。その上うに候補者の選擇は官吏か國家の
又は一般の人々によつてなされることは決してないので
あります。との上うな國では玄言沈る一群の人々が
の門前に鬼が住とうのはこの華差しめたもので
ありまず。
十分事情知三一票卷授衍之師う乙七は民
主主義の目標之方市民は選學行わ九る理由を
0
すべての者ことそ之公識の候補者の責任で
責任であります一彼のこの選丞國における立場を知ら

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.54)
77

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.82)
るよS
ん。同
X
府とゆうものは市
G
9
G
らず彼等
9
5
12

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.84)
としています。納稅に對する者え方を進步させると
市民のために縣に思次ことであり玄方。西洋諸に
ては概してこの考え方を進歩させました。例えば英の
大藏省は「私は以前遺爵の税金の中告書を田して職府を
欺しとれだけの金をとうました。私は今それを辨償し
なければ次らないとじていをすこれがその金であ
りま丈と如う上に求出忌八民ら每年數千术ン下の
金を受取つていとれらは「良心の金」と呼ぱれて
います。勿論誰で正しい時に正しい稅金を支拂い良
心の金りを決してい方ぶもっとよいのでありす
併し人民が政府に對して「良心の金一を送るとゆう事實
は彼等の間に納稅道德に對方る正しい觀念があるととの
證明であります。
納稅問題に關して直接關係のることが三點あります
第一に未だ會って公正だと言ねれた稅制はありませんで
した。ましてや完全だと稱せられたものはありません。
第二に稅法は國言又は地方議會に於て貴方方の代表者の
行動と投票とによつて制定されたものでありますっ市民
は絕えずその代表者に注視し混法の改正又は改良を求め
友ければ左りません。貴方方の代表者が立法者左のです
法律を遊更したり改正したりすのは彼等の職務なので
あります。第三に吉民は誰でも三つの寶際的を稅の問題
の常識的且實行され得る答に關心を持た去ければなりま
せん私の稅全は何意紀行言ま文ふ誰が私の稅金を取
扱いますか。私の税金はとんな風に便われていますか。
市民はとの問題を輕々しく取扱つたり又はとれに闘心を
失つたりしては方りません。自治体の中で公金が集めら
れ使めれる場合にはとその都市のすべての人民はこれ
に關心を持た急ければ忘りません。
この三點に開速して市民にとつて更に重要を問題のある
ことを絕えず心にとめ次ければ次りません。
囚稅が課せられる場合はそれは立法者によつてある特
別の理由と目的の下に誤せられているのであります。市
3
民はその能力の許す限りこれ等の理由と目的とが何で
あるかを學ばなければなり交せん。とれは彼等の義務で
あります。市の吏員市會議員は市民に對しとれ等の

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.78)
理由と目的とを明かにしなけれはなりませんっ
等の義若であり立方。頃の市民は稅金の理由目
明する代りに陰を玄き散らしたり亂暴な議論をした
ラッパをいたり言立てたり方ることに心
ません稅法中說候例紀對方る處實で左い事實を作出
そうと方る人に對してはその演説に對しその場で飛
人々に知らせる民主的な方法でおります○書い日本人は
何稅の徵改に必たっては市民は法律や條例の規定通り
には支拂うべ言稅の額に第二には現寶に課稅方る組織
に聞心持た交けれはたりません換言丈れば市民は政
總額が市民にとって一つの問題であり收稅吏の行政が集
の問題であります。
現在日本の稅法に裁定之れている任意申告と更正決定の
制度にはたくさんの缺點がありま併し更正決定制度
の弊害は一般の公衆がもつと現寶的定申告をすることを
ん。併し再び申し
ますがこの事は選親さ九た人民の代表者を通じてなさる
空さるぺ言のでは京也ん○視務官吏も一般公衆も
乙の重大安間題之民主的法合法的亥方法で解決し友け九
ななりませんっ
回市民が誤交部うべ言額や頭立てに用いられた方
44
す不平を持っ人に謝しては誰記でふ開かれている決定
的の明か左道があり玄少法衛四親定通り救濟を求め

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.83)
九は憶法遺定で法ると共記法律違民でありま方口すべて
は許されません警察官、檢察官裁判官は彼等の眼前
つて有罪である者に對して有罪の宣告を下し刑罰を課し
有罪の證明友き者を釋放し放免します
斯くして市民は自らがその一部である政時をある一人
又はある一目の人が弄んだりいじくつたりするととを
許しては友らたいのであります。責任ある政府は今迄も
玩具にされたことは交かつたし又今後もそうされると
とはなSでさら。
回收稅官吏が人民記對して法律の許之ぬ不正定議步を
したり故意にえこひいき不公正腹扱をしたり不法
左又は詐欺的交課稅をしたりした次ら以上と同樣に迅
速に處罰さるべ言もので高りま方。彼等は官公吏として
定するこの行爲は法律で定められた手續に從らべきもの
です。卽ち正當に權成された裁判所で合法的の秩序ある
方法で交さるべ言なものであります。納稅者に稅を納め
ぬ口實を教えたり勝手に税を輕くしてやつたり納稅
關心を惹いています。日本に於ては殊に地方自治園体の
政府が十分交財源をもって居ら方いといら問

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.78)
衆議院議貞還舉の之きの貴方方の投票に上つて貴方方
自身でいけられた傳決が今や寶現せんとしつつあるのて
地方自治体の吏員は通方の政府之運營方るに當つて使
わ九る稅金を出來る丈經清的記德い之左節約方為義
務を人民に對してつていま方彼等の義務は稅金を支
拂う納稅者の義務と同じ上之重要であり玄す口又市民
も自ら經濟が如何に質行されているかを注意していなけ
れば左りません言民と陵府との己のよう交密接友協力
によってのみ民主主義は日本に於て望ましい制度と左る
でせう。
市民の日常生活
規則正しく投票し規則正しく飛金を拂うことは二つ
の最も重要左宿民の義務であることは明かであります。
併しとの二つの義務は市民の日常生活市の事務に關す
る每日の關心又は市の吏員と億の前民とに對方る每日
の行動を注意深く統合した一部に過言ません。
今日日本には二百三十二の市後所がり市の人日
は小さいのは兵庫隔紹生市の二萬六千百九十一人から大
きいのは都と言う例度に方つてる京京都の四百五十五萬
五千五百六十五人迄凶り末方更比日本には十萬人以上
の人口を持つている市が五十ありその總計は全人口の
四分の一を占めてい玄六都京の六言さが市民が參加し
ている政治的產業的經濟的事務丞比較的復雜である
大都市に於ては最も復雜でありま方小さ都市では問
題の種類も小です一般的には今逆べた通りでありま
すけれど本小さ亥郡方に於ける具体約問題でもその重要
さに於て速ふ方る解決過まられていることに於て首都
地域の問四とらいあ得るのでありま
16
市民は多くの點で中兵よりも市役所のために優秀
交指導が公されること心をもつています小數の例
外を除き多くの都市は漸く一人前に忘つたばかりであり

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.82)
ま方。それ等の都市は積極的交計盛や型が
又はほんの僕かしかない狀顔で發達してりまし
くの都市に開しては旅行者が通り過ぎいその都市の
大きい」と言う言葉に證きています誰もこれは何と
立派交都市だろうこの郡市は多くの奉仕を提供してい
る」と言うものは次いでしよう。古民は彼等ぶ生活する
市が成育し單此六言さの點で魯人玄包含丈ると言うだ
善い日本人はる京の事務のやり方について無關心であ
ることは出來ません彼の母や父にとつて又彼の祖母
や祖父にとつてはれでいると孝えられたととでも今
日は大抵望ましくないことになつています。
私共は過去を私共自身のものであるかの如くいつ迄も
曳きづつていることは方いことです。新しい頭腦
新しい考えのみが今日の問題記解答室與えることができ
るのです。
私共が政治的經濟的の事柄に於竹る劇的交進步に
いて考えることた好むと好まぬと記持らずこれ等は寢
ほけ眼の市民に之つて地下から彼等を交えていた土台が
動いた以上の愛化でありました。よい政府に對する政治
的影響は地震のようであります
市民もその指導者も共雨にとっての目標を決定しな
左豫算の範團內で定必汝け龍好冷りません私共にとつ
て私共の持つている以上のことが決して出來ないことは
驚くに當りません私共は私共の目の前に持つている物
だけを使わ空け注ら從いのであります。ある大變に
肥つた人が仕立國記着物丞作れると思うだけの布地を
いて行きました後に彼が仕立屋の店に戻つて見ますと
彼はびつくりしました仕立屋は彼に着物を渡す代りに
二枚の簡單方水泳着をして言うには「旦那樣私は布地
47
の大きさだけの衣服しふ作ることが出來ません」と
市民の義務は事實上ある職務に對する候補者の內よい
人に投票するととから始まります。市長が彼の政策を公

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.78)
斥することもできます。
市民にとつて六切交事は立場を明かに方ること
ます。そうすることによって彼は市長又は市會議員比
彼の立場欲告げ左け九ば交りません
米國英國方ース卜リアユージーランドで
は一他の偉大な民主主義諸國のことはここでは申しませ
ん市民は個人的記亦又間授的に彼等の吏員に選
問題についてでら彼等ぶ何と考えているかと言うととを
告げるのであり言六當該の役所返の距離が時間から言
つてあ費用から言ってあまり通くないならは市民
は大低市長知そ補防者示行政官吏か議員を訪問
します。古民はそうして問題の重要性に應じて或いは口
頭或いは文書で彼の見解を傳允るのであります又公
動の道筋を說明する上う求められます。乙の市民と彼等
の政府の吏員との公開の集會は善い政府を維持する上に
全く有益でありました。との様交個入的接觸が不可能の
場合は市民は事柄の重要住に應じて電話電報手紙
請願左との方法を用います。通信は直接に當該役所の職
員に對して左されます。それらの通信を慰かな者に對し
て他に傳達するように頼んでおいて行くような事をする
者はありません。
日本人に與えられた權利の中で請願權ほど羅要方もの
はあ貞ま世ん口亂於尚る許盡密初めるために友される
か條例に對する行動であるか又は地方政府のある職
員の解職を求めるために爲されるふ等によつて變りはあ
りません。地方目治法はこれらの目的のためにこの權利
を實行丈る手段之規定していま方書民は丈べて關願書
に判を押文と言反氏名左自署丈ると言最百注意し方け
れば方り玄せん通之者不滿而凶る者歸言を起才者
18
その相多くの破壞的分子請願運動を始めるし又事態
を改善し發達之せ又は矯正しようと努力方る理性的
左善良交日本人も請願過動を始めるのでありま方口ある

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.92)
改良
人は
化
しま
は常
判
署名
指
に宛てられ
た
29
は大馬鹿で

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.89)
情から判を押すことは無考えの繰でない者として
した行為や愚か交行爲によつて長い間後悔したり逮
なければならぬよらに次るのであります
公共團体
日常生活では市民はただ政治的團体とばかり係を持
つているとは限らないのであります。公共の協會審議
會及び團体の考え深い仕事を通じて都市の名聲を高ぬる
ことがでをるのであります。米國に於ては六百以上の宿
に於て永續的の公共團体が考え深い進步的な考光の人民
によって設立されました。
これらの公共團体はただより善い政府を求めているの
です。この風体の目的と活動とは非政治的なものであり
ますっ尤もとの圓体の會員の多くは熱心な政治家であり
政黨員でもありますけれども。事貸多くの政治上の指導
者達はとれらいろいろの都市の体の強い、進歩的な
公共の計書を通じ彼等の選舉戰や彼等の政黨の綱要を作
るための手がかりを得ていると言つて差支先ありません
有名友團体の實例ともでは次のものがあります
ヒユートン市民憲章委員會カンザス市民連盟ロサン
ジエルス公共委員會クリープランド市民連盟シアト
ル市連盟などであります。
との組織の目的は全く多種多樣でありますある連盟
は公職を求めて立候補したものの經歴や傳記について
客觀的性質を有する資料を確保し且配布才るととに努
力しています。その會員は主として選舉戦の三月乃至四
月の間選譽民に情報を提供することを仕事にして居ます
外の團体では特定の計書の立案や又は改革運動などに主
たる努力を注いでいます。おる協會では事ら政府の狀態
0
の研究と報告に從事しています。そのような報告は通常
印刷物にして一般公衆に頒布されます。
地方的方國体と同じように國家的方性質の團体も存在し

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.76)
ていま方。有名交婦人投票者全國連盟婦人全國
等はこれです。との全國的な四体は二つとも地方の
部の會員を指導しています。ニユーヨークの全國自
連盟は米國によりよ言之作るために活動している
立てることを君望す為とをその政黨又は公共國体が政
府における選
都市は大きいふのでも小いので常にその國体
活動的で市の事務之參加六る度その市を生々した
公C
22
う。多くの日本人は美術の保護者でありました彼等の

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.77)
の方はそ乙住んでん
を示しています。彼等の行は
ればなりません。
新日本の市民
新日本に於ては市民は郡古の事務にっいて
及び行助に於て從來上り獨立的であることが書る
ですしい刃そうでたいれぱなりません。市民は布の事
の上で決定的定貢獄空しなけれは沒ら在いのであり
この事は市とゆう國休のためによい結果を生み出すに
違いありません。どの京民も納稅者です。稅金は東の東
員の奉給並びに市の財産の重要次財源であります。
との市民も投票者であり去方。正親の投票が政府一役所
一を維持しますとの市氏も都市○主權者の一人です
又どの市民も同時に中央政府の一員でもあるのです。
よい市役所はその市云の誰からも六きな奉仕を要求し
ています。
又よい市役所はその市民に大き奉仕をしなけれぱな
らないのであります。
一をわり」
2

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.96)
Viee Consul Hagistretti at
last month at Uji-Tamada in Mie-Xer
two days and was attended by over lt
ever the prefecture.The disoussioms
a series of prepared speeches delivere
officers, the conference then bremking vi
groups.
These disoussions disolosed a marke
the part of the average Japanese to lay aly
complately at the door of the eleoted effs
leoking the basio sconomic causes of the di
which no officials could completely solve.
partioularly the haphazard, arbitrary tex
system -- came in for wide critioism durin
ence. Conferees pointed out that the lodal
Law imposed new, heavy burdens on the citiem
but that under the present tax system almost ail
are channelled to the prefeoture and cantral
oiting the remedies offerred in the Shoup tarr
Magistretti conoludes that there is at present
somewhat non-oritical acceptanoe of demooratis te
although some segments seem critioal about whether omr
aspeots are applicable to Japan; that ultimately, folie
a period of assimilation, a Japanese brand of demoormor
likely to emerge, whioh is suited to Japanese meods.
success of democrasy in Japan will, he believes, be een
tingent upon the solid quality of the groundwork now being
laid, the education of Japan's children in demooratio waye
and the solution of Japan s basic economic problem.
A rating sheet is attaohed.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOR
UNITED STAT OF
United States Political Adviser
REC °D
for Japan
NOV. 3
Tokyo, Octeber 27, 1949.
No. 745
ACTION
RESTRICTED
FE
INFO
DCR
OLT
Subject: Opening of Sixth Special Diet Session.
OFD
894.00/10-2749
TP
EUR/x
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
ZXR's
Sir:
I have the honor to bring to the Department's
attention some of the political developments which have
arisen in connection with the opening of the sixth
special session of the Japanese National Diet.
The two houses of the Diet convened on October 25
with the Government of Prime Minister YOSHIDA Shigeru
indicating its intention to introduce forty-three
bills, several of which are concerned with supplementary
revisions of the 1949-1950 budget in order to meet the
tox reforms recom  ded
the Shoup Mission. It is
oxpected that the coming session will test the Yoshida
Cabinet's ability to effect its long-term economic
stabilization program
The Prime Minister's administrative
speech is scheduled to be delivered on Novemb  8.
Economic problems will unquestionably dominate
the sixth special session In addition to implementing
the tax reduction reforms recom ended by the Shoup Mission,
the government will present a number of important bills
to supplement the measures concerned with the Nine-Point
Economic Stabilization Program enacted at the fifth special
session. It is expected that the pending visit of
r. Joseph M. DODGE, financial adviser to SCAP,at the
end of October will delay deliberations on economic legisla-
tion. The special session, however, is presently scheduled
to close before the end of November.
From the partisan standpoint it is not expected that
the Yoshida Cabinet will experience much difficulty in
FILED
guiding its legislative program through the Diet. In the
C
House
RESTRICTED
FAP
ACTIÓN COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch
no. 745, October 27
1949。
RESTRICTED
-2-
House of Representatives the Democratic-Liberal Party
holds 266 out of the House's 466 seats. Additionally,
the government party can count to some extent upon the.
support of 33 coalition Democrats. The prinoipal opposi-
tion will come from the Social Democratic Party (which
however, holds only 48 seats) and the 37 opposition
Democrats. A noisy Communist contingent of 36 members
will, of course, oppose practically every government
measure, but it is doubtful if the Communists can
effectively collaborate with the other opposition parties.
XR
The remaining seats of the House of Representatives
consist of the New Political Council, 32, the Labor-
894.00B
Farmer Party, 6, and the Kosei Club, 4, with 1 Independent
and 3 vacancies.
While the Democratic-Liberal Party thus dominates
the House of Representatives, the Yoshida Cabinet does
not enjoy such an advantageous position in the House of
Councillors. Of the 250 seats, the Democratio Liberals
hold only 52 and will, accordingly, have to depend upon
support from the 75 Ryokufukai members. The Democrats
and Socialists each hold 42 seats, with 16 seats for the
Mushozoku Kodankai (an affiliation of Independents),
7 f. the Shinsei Club, 6 for the Communists, 3 Independents,
and 7 vacancies. Councillors holding three-year terms.
XR
come up for election next year and it is expected that.
many of them will seek the limelight for campaign purposes
894.002
by loud ettack against the government.
In a statement to. the press on October 22, Chief
Cabinet Secretary MASUDA Kaneshichi gave some indication
of the character of the Government's legislative program.
Looming large in the budget for the 1950-5l fiscal year
are appropriations for relief funds under a public works
program: thirty billion yen for emergency relief, twenty-
four billion for permanent relief, and ten billion as a
reserve The Government will endeavor, according to
Mr asuda. to set the new base wage at ¥6, 3o7, but it
will not be possible to revise the base wage for public
servants at the present session. An 80 percent increase
in railway freight rates is contemplated in an attempt
to adjust those rates with the increased passenger fares
enacted at the last session. While some consideration
is being given to increasing rates for electricity, no
definite decision on this question has yet been reached.
It is possible that t he opposition in both houses
of the Diet will center its attacks more on what the
Govern ent does not propose to undertake than upon the
legislative program the Government introduces. It is
unlikely, for example, that the Yoshida Cabinet will
attempt to revive the year-end bonus system for government
personnel
RESTRICTED

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch
no: 745, October 27
1949。
RESTRICTED
-3-
personnel, an issue which is certain to arouse the
opposition. There is also considerable demand for a
revision of the foreign exchange rate of 360 yen to
one U. S. dollar, and strong opposition to the present
deflationary policies which have brought about a tight
money situation. These are problems which it is not
expected that the Yoshida Cabinet will. or can deal with
directly in its new legislative program, and failure to
do so will likely provide the opposition with effective
issues to criticize the Cabinet. Since many of these
issues have a direct bearing on the labor situation,
opposition leaders will most probably endeavor to channel
discussion and debate, especially in the House of Repre-
sentatives, to questions which arouse such popular
interest.
It is also expected that some of the opposition parties
will attempt to bring up the question of a peace conference
at the present session, primarily as a deviceto embarrass
the Yoshida Cabinet.
While the Democratic-Liberal Party enjoys a commanding
position in the House of Representatives and it is the
general belief that the Yoshida Cabinet's legislative
program can be successfully carried through the speoial
session, there are indications that the center parties
may hereafter present a better organized and more effective
opposition. The most conspicuous political feature of the
fifth special session of the Diet which met. from February 11
to May 31, 1949, was the so-called polarization of Japanese
parliamentary politics as a result of the general election
in January, In the fifth session the majority Demoeratic-
Liberal Party was primarily pitted against an ineffective
but noisy Communist minority with the other parties of
the center in a state of confusion and disorganization as
a result of internal strife.
As the present sixth special session convenes,
however, the polarized character of the Diet is much
less evident, The Democratic Party has virtually split
into two parties. One, the so-called coalition faction
which is of conservative temperament, appears prepared to
work closely with the majority Democratic-Liberal Party.
The other faction, the anti-coalitionists, will probably
not cooperate with the Socialists, but on October 24 this
group entered into a working agreement with the New
Political Council for the purpose of waging a joint fight
in the Diet on such problems as the rice coupon system,
the proposed transfer of the government tobacco monopoly
system to private industry, and the revision of legislation
concerning the distribution and sale of foodstuffs. This
may, of course, lead to an all-round coalition between
these two opposition parties.
At the
RESTRICTED

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch
no。 745, 0ctober 27,
1949。
RESTRICTED
At the same time, the Social Democratic Party has
begun to show indications of some rejuvenation whioh
may make it a more effective opposition party with or
without cooperation from the anti-coalition Demoorats
the Communists, or any of the other minor groups. At
its National Congress in March 1949, the Social Democratic
Party attempted a far-reaching reorganization whioh may
result, in the coming session, in a more aggressive type
of opposition than the moribund appearance the party
presented in the last session (this Mission's despatch
no. 242 of April 21, 1949). Under the leftist leadership
of Mr, SUZukI Losaburo and as the result of the infiltration
o. Democratization League Members into the party, some
of whom are former Communists and have all the Communists'
ability for rough-and-tumble politics, the Socialists
have begun to assume a new character. The program the
party has announced for the sixth special session calls
for the introduction of a vote of non-confidence in the
Yoshida Cabinet and the adoption of typically communist
"struggle" policies, which will include an effort to
"seek a concentration of forces outside the Diet with.
the labor-farmer front as their axis". In other words
according to a policy program adopted by Socialist
leaders at a meeting on October 24, the Social Democratic
Party will take a leaf from the Communists' book and
attempt to organize a farmer-labor offensive to parallel
its anti Yoshida activities in the Diet. How far the
party intends to implement this offensive with strikes and
labor agitation is not clear, but it is unlikely that
the party. even with the assistance of its Democratization
League foilowers, has yet been able to develop "struggle"
techniques which would produce the type of labor offensives
leunched by the Communists in the last three years. Never-
theless, these developments at least indicate the intention
of the Social Democratic Party to play a more aggressive
role in and outside the Diet, using non-communist segments.
of the labor movement as the basis for its activity.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Parchment Mat to Depart ent
362
CN3pinks:mhp
RESTRICTED

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FORIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIGA
DIVISION OF
Office of the United States
Tokyo, November 10, 1949.
13
RECD
NOV.18
No. 780
ACTION
FEven:
1NFC
DCR
FER
Sut ject: Civil Affaurs Cenference at Ogalci.
OLI
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
Washington.
Sir:
894.00/1
I lwve the honer te enelese herewith two cepies of a report
made ly Fereign Service Offi: er Richari E. FINN (Yokchama) after
he had t aken part in a cor ference arranged et Ogaki, Gifu Pre-
fecture, for the pronction of local participation in the condu.t
of peliti al affaire. In thas connestion referen: e is also made
to the report of a simular meeting attended by Fereigr Servir:
Offi cer Williem L. MAGIsTREmTI (Yokchame) which was enc ic sed wath
the Missien s confidentaal despatch ne. 738 of 0rtcker 22, 1949.
-1049
The Department may find interest in the fart that r. Finn,
while not being much impressed by either the ability or effozt of
the Sivil Affairs persennel who were engaged i the conduet of he
sonference, does feel that the lecal autenomy pregram conferms
sufficiently with Japenese practix e and ideas to give promist of
:onsiderable success despite financial difficulties. It is alss
Mr. Finn s cpinion thet the appreashing contraction in Civil Affairs
(military governmet) activities by the Cecupatien througheut Japan
is lik-ly t beight en lecel responsibility in lecal affairs. It is
his viw that Civil Affairs teams have tended to beceme unduly in-
velved in local Japanese operations to the detriment of lecal autenomy.
The Mi sion considers Mr. Finn s repert. and his partieipation
in the conference cut of which the I pert developed, to be exeellent
and worthy of connendation. The of fir ers in charge of the conference
have expressed
CONFDENPIAL (Por Department use only).
工
N
FILED
2
D0
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 780,
November 10, 1949.
-2
have expressed particular thanks for Mr. Finn"s part in it. The
Consul General at Tokohama has expressed his own commendation in
transmitting the report to the Mission.
Respectfully yours,
W.J. Sebald
Enclosure: litl
Two copies of memorandum
report dat ed November 1,
1949, entitled Civil
Affairs Conference at Ogaki,
prepared by Foreign Service
Officer Riclard B. FINN..
350 Japen/123FINN.
CCovilleshh
Copy to USPOLAD, Yokohama
(without enclosure).
Parchment mat to Department.
CONFIDENTIAL (Fer Department use only).

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.83)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 780 dated November 10, 1949, from USPOLAD,
Tokyo, subject: Civil Affairs Conference at Ogaki".
CONFIDENTIAL (For Jepartment 's use only)
MEMORANDUM REPORT
November 1, 1949
SUnJiCT: Civil ffairs Conference at Ogaki
On October 21 an i 22, 1y4, I attended a conference
in t o citr or, i r rr recture, conducted by the
Leval n overnent Jivision of the Civil affairs Section,
Her quarters, i hth r y. This corference, which was
si  r i  r see  or mmization to the one at Uji-
 , de porites i ts Hempmw un e ort of October 10,
1949, Pre Ared y Viee Concul illiam L. MaGISThETTI, was
conducted y  t hen i by r. Jocil . TILron, Chief
of th Le ml a ov t Sivision, assisted by two
officials Prom the Tokai erioal Civil ffairs Team and
by tue unterei ,etro Juced  a uest not con-
nicten wit'h the civil efrsce  ro ru..
The confer nce s hol i me of sne primary schools
i  aki, t cisy  ut twenty-five uiles northwest of Nagaya,
with a populetisn or mrout 7s, oo people; the area around
Uvaki is rime pily  ricnltural.  at  ji-Yamada the Local
wuto oay   e the s ogees of e confer nee, with parti-
cular enph sis on the i hts u hut ies of the citizen and
locally electei orricials  pmbl ie toties. On the first
day rour 1 ctures wer iv n, e lin it. the citizen, the
office or ayor,  loeu vssembly, sn. commlttees and com-
missions.h
citi: : s r i fual in
Japre eithemt  rpreu tioe, i the oth-r three papers
were errrived y c  is spener nd cransleted into
Jap eee.  secom  ur  ouf wee comr isted of a
sertp of "roum l-tatue Jscuerlors" or the Pour sul jects,
cou tuetei by e speakere or  previous day. The purpose
has dir e  pee  eoeeee po ram, is to brin the
rohter of Loecd autono   fFoa t wtfene iu i fprmal
ort or t wrfeuee weseese brrnslatew cos, as e re-
Porenee vor or eur er :i
t,e
ebasives of
wne ral :teet-
ut attena ce pte a ropu to  t were oy a o
coufurrnees
holi ay r 'ie orrielals; l t ctoiar le plce-narvesting
se son; u ri , te e re i o seem to succeed
resentation

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.87)
2
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
The presentation of papers to the general meeting
varied greatly in quality: the one regarding the citizen
was read very rapidly; the paper on the office of mayor
contained a  reat deal of historical and irrelevant matter
and was ineptly done, larpely because of the inability of
tue iaterpretor to understua or traislate English spoken
extemporaneously; ti l st two papers were very ably sum-
arized and iaterpreted. For the discussion on the second
day th- ulisnce ic livi jed rouchly by profession into
four roups - mayors, ssemblymen, school teachers and
scl ool co ittee en, o i iscmllan eous roup of pro-
curators, local ofciciais, civic roup representatives,
tna th- enerol p ic. It was impossible to uchieve
arinated i sc selon i. any or the rpups and although
occavion llya s ri s of puesti ons would be asked spont-
aneously, too often ti l scussion degenerated into de-
sultory exte porizin- iy the lender. The miscellaneous
-roup ani the co mects is: education were the most
inter tl  ris, il the mayors and assemblymen
were at best rat. et ic; thie enurel eveluation of audience
reacti was arreo to by l Coir discussi on leaders.
althourn the discussin included a variety of topics,
the ma jor interest o." the aulie ice appearad to be in Ameri-
can customs oni  olitic l rsthods; a number of questions
were asked aout merican prectice or condi tions in regard
to bosses in  nited tat s ciries, the operation of city
courts, differences i.. orva.izetion between large and small
cities, tnd the political awareness of the rarmer. I found
that ay ef ort- t describe the strueture of my own home
tom, iaara Falls,  Yor, city slightly laryer than
o aki, aroptod sever puesti s by each roup and seemed
to satisfy the audionce's uesire Por examples from American
expri nee. There s rtieul r inter yt i. the lace of
women i arie coei ty,  t o e ol ler san want ed to know
whet.  ro c.ilare i.'t itsd ttes took care of
their parte.  taet er o ecer  with waye o re-
tutsins compeict wrt w at, oi tin out thet on radio
roun tat e isc sio ro ra  tlic detates con-
muniate al pye  posr ot stron er pe tfs t treir oppronents
sese mle tute.
Phese in or yl m  tin salea cerved to reveal the utti-
tude of what ir . robably on avera e dapnese commcnity to-
ward certnin protlemm o ctarret sortaice in the country.
Several tonenere stated thei. o in 1am saat the new 6-3-3
educatioo syst e a i  vet over the pre-var system
and mr t it war orkin  ell.  clice of ricials in licated
that te round no p rt teui r tirriculty in the new police
system dor ite t se i o? loeel. atial police.
eop le Proh er et of ts vrour roupr waio that the local
antonoy rorma P vn  eetive i tht local politi-
ca o tier  o  i t ir o fteirs and in that
locnl citiss e ere et r rise e their ri hts and
olilie stotur; tley ote rtienl roy the vorh of the
ne. committees

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.88)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 3 -
new committees, especially the boards of education. All
groups agreed that the most pressins problem in local
covernment was financial; the amount of money available to
finance the incre sed activities of local groups is inade-
quate, in s ite of heavy taxes. The feeling appeared
eneral, owever, that depressed economic conditions in
Japan were the cusic cause of this difficulty and that
there neei o ro Pear that these conditions would be a
permanent obstacle to the local autonomy movenent.
Uther incuesion laaders reported tit the ir croups
vere cuncernad wit. fiancial ani tax problems and also
vith er'forts by comunist e emeuts to use the new powers
of local ov:rinent, es ecially pititions for recall, to
force deocratic lly elected orficils from their positions
and to disturi t  normal fonetionin of overnnent. ili-
tary -overment of:ici ls saiu, it mi ht be noted paren-
thetically, t mt t r  v been several cases in the Tokai
re ion  ere mayo. s bave resi med fror. o iee as a result
o com uni t patitions or charces of corruption, not because
they acknowled ed the troth ? the attacks but apparently
because their honer h u been imprned.
.s a gene ral observutlon, - was impreasei by the
un lerstanlin shown uy the d nese of t.e purpose of the
local autonony prorrah, ir spits of the shortcomings of this
conferonce. efricials it Whom  liscussed the matter,
incl wliu the ovar or of iru . refecture and the mayors of
Difu City and Oraki City, saiI chey felt tn t sul stautial
separat ion o pre "ectura overmments fros che central
covernment ud or city poverre ts from prefectural vovern-
dents had een nceomplished, sl that the new system was
reasonably efficient; ae she ca e ti t ey sei that they
still had to make freoment tri,s to Toliyo to lobby for funds
and local i  r ve. eut". t  so appeared to me tha t the
otner peo le atue di t.e conroreuee, who nre political
and civic leaders o? ifu . rePoeture,  i a fairly  ood
-resp of the role o t e ry ct om, rarticulurly his
 ri-ht to petition ror referendiaa or recali, oni his parti-
ci: ntion i the x  mlie coittess sri civic  roups.
inspired, tppenre t co or. cur iclentl,  ith capnese
practice en ideas pa ivsr ire of e ei porabe success,
Jes ite fihmncia dirricutties.
The retuction of civil crraire, to r.erly called mili-
tary vovermment, unctione will ive  loe l autonomy
pro ram ius rirst rei test.. rs ecuur-l civil affairs
bere ee t a dissolvea y vauber 2), 1, leaving
only at re tonal tee t  at  m te survey und
re ort on saprpose per iyistop. pe rapreesto riven by
prefeetures wal p ave Jro y ceeses e er ttone ps that
reaon te r  i  stte o eel risin Froe re-
!enr: thr.t

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.81)
CONFIDENT IAL
-4-
appears that the eight regional teams are not to be ex-
panded reatly in size, that the area which each is to
survey is far too larve for more than cursory examination
of crucial problens, and that the reason for not dissolving
regional teams at this time was simply to make the process
of reductior of cccupation control more gradual.
The table of or anization for the new civil affairs
set-up hus ot t bee leterined, lut it seens probable
tat th recior. 1 teas ill cep ist of an average of about
30 of icinl., nll civil laes ercept Cor ta commmanding
officer r ar & P stlor ry oficers and men, and
a lar e nut r, ra. o oe unired, Jepanese employees. A
very smsll unit ill be ert  isnea in Seneral Headquarters,
Tokye, to oversee civil mf airs ae ivities mnd to serve as
the clhannel of cu rsurications betweer neadquarters and the
tea.s. It is i me eerir t, cte that each of the 46 pre-
fectural to
rn vera e of about 25 people
of officer rans, 1 e lacted men und ierican clerks, and
about lso dp an ee or forei  oatioml empleyees.
The puality or to ss roal oely si at ui her ranking
civil a?rsire orricial. chunected vit: t.e conference at
Oraki wae  et i weseive. re er ieers, who with few. ex-
ceptions ial iv or ler ts othor duty as a result of the
reorranizati,ear! so  vo  most no interest in the
wor' or in te da aaese reo , tIt' o  b ey seemed to be
perfor in treir sesimei thties conneientioisly even if
withont au trpoins giva rten or cuet ps tikewise seemed to
iy aitre iotoraet 't te ve oin an ave the
iprasrio   r expecte: tn e.tire civil affairs
operation  lol  rty. t the conferance itself
wore rp iuesre couference.
beecoo e  the field
er erawo  t, peryee a e or he sepional
 ere, and
sa:in
ororaens coction
Pedue
 clvalinn pifer.
Pilton 
inetraetor i
pity s to neet cut; i t.r  pe ue dlitary overn-
ent orricer perver a or. r. Filton
  n hr.He
orec refric-
oty eir iel o n on sis_
it
1 e knows
eva.ei. mnr r sr eak-
trou
,ruee lotal method
ibaulience.He
 nt erst in or
sy aty

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.88)
OZ2eNI 81 NAL
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
sympathy with the Japunese, and I could not escape the
fecliny tlhat his effectiveness derived more from a certain
dramatic skill than fron concern for the cause of demo-
cracy anl local reform i: Japan. r. Tilton stated in-
cidentally that he thou ht the usefulness of the civil
afeairs prorrda in Ja an was en lin, and that he was ser-
iously consi leri n offer to assume the position of chief
covernwent an! le l officer on ukinawa, vhere he said
there would shortly ie a larre expansion of rilitary govern-
rent activity.
it is ny feel in hat the reduction of civil affairs
activity vas a necessary mi desirctle stsp. The impress-
ion roin ti.is trip an sthr observati on is unavoidable
that militery rovermment or civil ffairs teams tended to
become un in invol von in lscnl Japanese operati ons to the
detriment or jocal tutouony, nd tlat local cccupation teams
did ot, or nost pur, oses, ve sufficient competence or
interest either to rport  or ussist local Japanese acti-
vities in an efactive ay, len ite direct action in emer-
ency si uu tio invel in c llectio. of taxes and meeting
rice quotas. at present tue ci vil affairs program is con-
fused un: it, erasnnes le ora ized Ly the reor anization
of its nctivities, with  result that efriciency is further
roduce .
netention of re ioa ve.ns is protubly desirable as
a te, crery meas aro to ensure some surveillance and report-
in on local condition mnd to cushion what vill doubtless
he a reat shock to loca Jap rese of icials in losing their
su port  : ti.rir scape oat - ue i itary overnment team.
Loeal J n se of ic iais  il? no. ve to make more of
their o n deci ions  m  r more pespons ibility for local
oper i s.  t ou r p  control exercised by the
occup tion forcer n iil iecu ore centralized and
unless ti e uccupanio. csrres. miorlp peduces ite control
over the contral dape p oy rar, the Japy nese tendency
on a local and nationsl l-vel to rel, on the cccupation vill
endanrer th loeei sutoeepr r meral Leadguarters
cae aithull carry out as en pnee' ur ose of transfer-
rine control ro"reecivel, t t du,n ea overment, the
opmece lil ve wm orportm iep so run treir own affairs
Jocally en. nati mal.y,
thcc.vvie :ill ve some
chanee to rau e the electivenerr r parmanence of the
Pocal mutme y pro res.
Richard B. Sinin
nichar. rinn
mevicun rice Consul

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.92)
6
UNITED STATES
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
No. 789
Of fice of the U. S. Political lviser
Nov2.19
for Japan
UNCLASSIFIED
PaRMENF SA Fokyo, November 14. 1949.
o actin reqni
nig (NA)
13
NOV 25 1949
RECED Subject: Transmittin, Gopy co Survey of Po aal
STATE
NOV 2
ACTION
INFO
DGR
 Artias P ieal Aivisee hes tre honor to trans ir erewdth
OLI
 por of lata taker. fr. a recent survey o political trenls con-
POS
 ted y the P lio Op nien Poom of the Asahi Neusptoer on Cstober
894.00/
tos. This pepore vas prepared and a copy suppliod te the
e P ic Opinion an Jociclogical seseare'. vision ef
pa n detion of deneral Heau ters.
π;
49
Parchnent Mat to Department.
FILED
A
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WÍTHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch no. 789 dated
November 1, 1949 from the Office of the
U. S. Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
entitled: uTransmittin Copy of Survey of
Political Trends".
(Copy)
GENLRAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRIE COIELANDER FOR THE ALLÉED POUERS
Civil Infomation and Education*Section
Public Opinion and Sociolocical Research Division
3 November 1949.
Data From
A RECENT SURVEY OF POLITICAL TRINDS
On 11-12 October 1949, the Asahi Newspaper Public Opinion Room con-
ducted a nation-wide survey of current political attitudes. In the course
of this survey, a sample of over 3000ipersons, selected by systematic
random methods from election rosters, was intervieved.
The principal findings of this survey are given below with the sup-
porting data from the interviews.
1. Yoshida Jabinet retains substantial public support. Mhile more
than 4 out of every 10 veters indicated support of the Cabinet, less than
2 out of evory 10 were definitely opposed to it.
Suppert.
43%
Oppose
17
Cannot decide 21
Don't know
19
100%
2. This support is composed primarily of persons ho currently sup-
port the Democratic Liberal Party, but some comes from adherents of other
parties.
Of the supporters of the prasent Cabinet:
75 percent are supporters of the Democrati: Liberal Party
8 percent are supporters ofathe Democratic Party
6 percent are supporters of the Social Demoeratic Party
11 percent are supporters of, other parties
That the Cabinet depends primarily upon supporters of the Democratic
Liberal Party nay also be seen in the following table:
Attitude
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 789
N:v. 14, 1949
-2
UNCLASSIFIED
Attitude Toward the Cabinet by
Political Party Support
(1)
Party Supporters
Attitude Teward
the Cabinet
DLP
DP
SDP
CP
PCP
Misc
Support
8ó%
45.5
153
23
43π
29%
Oppose
1
24
60
86
35
31
Undecided
9
21
20
10
11
28
Don't know
10
2
11
12
100%
100%
100
100%
100
100%
The present Jabinet receives its highest rate of support among
business managere and small business men; the hi hest rate of opposition
comes fron oranized vorkers.
Support for the Cabinet Among
Selected Groups
Support
Oppos:
Undec ided
Organizei vorkers
2
38
183
taoreenized vorkers
21
23
siness mmamagers
12
10
bs'nessmen
13
15
14
21.
(2)
The following abireviations wii be used.
DLP
Denceratic Liberal Party
JP
Demceratie Party
SDP
Social Denocratic Party
CP
Communist Party
PCP
People's Cooperative Party
Misc.
Miscellancous Sall Parties
4. The Democratic
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.96)
Edcl. to
Tokyo's 789,
Nov. 14,1949
-3-
UNCLASSIFIED
4. The Democratic Liberal Party remains the leading party in publio
favor, and the Social Democratic. Party seems to have replaced the Demo-
cratic Party in second place. The Communist Rarty seems to have declined
somewhat from its hih point at the time of the general elections of
January 1949.(2)
Question: If there were a eneral election right now, for vhich party
would yon vote?
Democratic Liberal
376
Social Democratic
17
Denocratic
7
Coramunist
2
Pecple s Cooperative
1
Hiscellancous snall.
parties
2
Would not vote
3
Undecided
28
Refused to ansver
3
100.3
5. The highest suppert for the Democratic Liberal Purty as in the
case of Cabinet support is found ameng business people. The highest supper
for the Social Demoaratic Party is found among workers.
wich the respondent is ashel to irdicate his politieal sentiments to a
relative stranger ther t al vays a tendeney for pe eene vhe support non-
pformist parties to poms eat rhreir true feelings. as a ponseguence. puoli
pinten surveye have a teniency  underestimate Communist strength. This
eni msy is systenatir ber s of the dynamics of the poll iny situation and
po l alwaye be taken ants consideration in readiny the results of polls as
they pefer to Conmuniste. How nueh concealment there i, cannot be mown with
ertainty.. but if a constant rate of concealment over a period of time is as-
sumed, we can estinat someuhere in the neighborhood of 40s concealment or
anlerest imate. That is. any ligure concerning Comauni t support in a publie
pinicn poll, if mult iplied by l6, will tend to be slose to the true support.
Thus the day after the eneral elections, vhen the Communists polled approxi-
mately 9.8 pere nt of the popular vote, a Mainichi Newspaper Pulilic Opinion
Rorm survey cbtained a figure of 6.1 percent. Multiplying the obtained 6.1
perrent by 1.6, we reach the true election figure. If the same logic is ap-
plied in the case of the current survey, we obtain an estinate of appreximately
3 per ent for current Communist suppert. This estimate may still be low, be-
wase by this time, the attacks on the Communist Party may have inereased the
fat crs bringin about cond ealment co that the 1.6 multiplier may be somewhat
L. - - Mr. Passin, CIE
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.91)
Encl. to
Tokyc's 789,
Nov. 24 1949.
-4
UNCLASSIFIED
Support for Various Parties
Alon: Selected Groups
DLP
SDP
Orgeni sed vorkers
303
39.3
Unorsanized workere
37
28
neos ngers
61
14
ail businessmen
54
12
Farmers
35
12
The Democratic Liberal Party and the Social De ocratic Party
showed nest stability amons the major parties, the Communiot Party least.
Mnile almost 3 out of every 4 persons who voted for the Demoeratic Liberai
Party or the Jocial Denocratic Party in Jammary 1949 reported that they
  still vote the sme way. only 2 out of every 5 acknokledged Com-
uumm st Party cupporters felt the same way. The Social Deoporatic Party
sems te s the priveipal ainer fron the droppin off of Comunist Party
stpeect.
Shifts in Party Support from
January 1949 to the Present
35
In January 1942. voted as fcllows:
DLP
3DP
DP
CP
PCP
DLF
74
7%
9%
125
10
5
71
18
10
F
2
2
58
C
P
2
0
42
2
O
O
0
ló
23
18
23
2
2
100%
100
100%
100%
200

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.90)
SEOIRITY: UNCLASSIFIED
PRIORITY:
DIVISION OF PHILIPPINE AFFAIB NOW
ION
T0 : Department of State
cal
NOV181949
FROM : MANILA
closure
ACTI
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REF: Desp No. 781, Sept 12, 1949
ENC
I
DCR
N
F
OLI-
o
ENC
I h ve the honor to ref r to my dusputch lHo. 781 of September 12, 1949
POS
entitled "Fili ino Attitude Toward Ibst-war Japan" and to transmit herewith
UNA
cop ies of a talk on the objectives of hilippine Foreign Tolicy given on
IC
Octoler 17 by Uneersecretary ERI of the Depurtment of Foreign Affairs in
OFD
"early and materiul reco nition of our just cluims against Japan" and that
the Re, ublic takes "an unequivocal position aguinst Japan's resurgence in
m
the future as a dominunt oler cupuble once more of threatening the peace
jf
of this  art of the torld."
The Une ereceretur Is ddress us one in a series entitled "The Cabinet
Re orts" which huve been broadcust during the past eight weeks ostensibly
to bring the cabinet members closer to the people by affording an
orportunity for cuch member of te cu in t to come before the radio
audience. Several of the "cabinet re orts" have been nothing more than
894.0
campaign speech as supy ortine the UIRIno administration. Hovever Mr. Neri's
talk is devoid of  artisan p lities und his remarks, particularly with
respect to  hilippine policy tovard Jupun, may serve as a useful guide.
The Underseeret ry states t t, t cugh the Thilipy ines favor measures
designed to elp Jupun uttain self-support, it rejects measures which vould
enable that courtry to  ttain  doninant  osition in Asia which might
allor r to th cuten the scrnonic stability unt territorial integrity of her
neighbors. He pcints ou  ut e fhilir. ines has or osed und will continue
to object to Jupunese mombers iy in internatiunal confurences until conclusion
of a peace treate for Ja  von  cuturtry "intern bi nal personality."
He furt or stabue tat frr op setave of t U. s. policy tireetave of Day 12
Tustene a stop to o o pro ram or anterim reparasion raymonts, the
Poilip soes waml contrhu  to pus feroare ste cusme sguinet Jupan.
()
Er. Mori stateo oy e hils  n o vall cum ort Japan's readmission
to e family of mobaone w en t ftihovin condtao ure fulfilled:
1. Cneree montrar e  t
cefrl ento of  Junese
people  m ev rrm nt.
2. ssum.c
last vestig o of militarietic und eupuncionist
FILED
11//49
ACTION COPY — DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The action office must return this permanent record copy to DC/R files with an endorsement of action taken.

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.93)
UNCLASSIFIED
2 MANILA
thinking have been abolished in Japan's ruling clique, thus creating a
climate thoroughly congenial for the growth of free, democratic institutions
3. Villingness of Japan to assume her international obligations to
the Allies pursuant to the provisions of the Potsdam Declaration and
the terms of the Post-surrender Policy agreement.
Other objcctives of  hilippine foreign policy as stated by Mr. Neri
are as follows:
1. The promotion and maint nance of friendly relati ns with all nations
of the vorld;
2. Adh r nee to the principles of e United Hutions Charter and
cupport of the measures taken b that international orgunization to
maintain internat onal  ace and security, solve ressing economic, social
and cultural problems of international importance and promote fundamental
human rights for all;
3. Iromotion of the mutually advantageous special relations between
the ihilippines and the United States;
4. Adherence tc the .rinci les of democracy and the  reservation
of lhe democretic uy cf life;
5. Sup ort of the usy irutions for self-determination of dependent
and non-self-governing  coples; und
6. Develo ment ( the lte ublic's niti nal cconomy aleng lines of
interm tional cooperution und r gienal integration.
Evett D. Hester
Charge d'Affuires a. i.
Enclosure:
Cctel or 17 umress of
I nderoecretary Heri
W
9p4

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despaton
1949, entitled
Towards Japan,"
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
OFFICE OF PUBLIC INFORMATION
Malacañan, Manila
PRESS RELEASE NO. 10-17-2
October 17, 1949
SUBJECT: SEC. NERI'S RADIO TALK ON
7:20 P.M.
"CABINET REPORTS SERIES"
SHEET 2.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
During the last four weeks or so, events of far-reaching conse-
quence have occurred which have radically altered the political and
economic climate of the post-war world. In the Philippines, these
developments have registered with telling effect. Press dispatches
from London, Moscow, Peiping and Washington have bewildered the man
on the street. He began to ask a few pointed questions which demand
straightforward answers.
It might, therefore, be worth our while to recall a few of these
events.
On September 19 an announcement from London told the world that
Great Britain had devalued the pound. On September 23, President Tru-
man made the historic announcement in Washington that Russia had ex-
ploded her first atomic bomb, thus ending the American monopoly of this
dreaded weapon. On October 1, Red leader Mao Tze-Tung proclaimed in
Peiping the establishment of the People's Republic of China and simul-
taneously made a bid for international recognition of the new Chinese
regime.
I cite these three world-shaking events not merely because they
will certainly influence the future trend of international diplomacy
but also because they are typical examples of the world-forces which
affect the developmental pattern of the Republic's foreign policy.
Let me illustrate how this series of events exert their influence
on the changing pattern of our foreign policy, the task of charting
which is the primary responsibility of the Department of Foreign Af.
fairs. When Great Britain devalued the pound, policy-makers in the
Philippines re-evaluated the position of the young Republic within the
context of Britain's currency devaluation and its probable effects on
our economy. There were strong and basic differences of opinion in the
ensuing discussion on the subject. However, despite the resulting at-
mosphere of spirited controversy the participants in this discussion
(more)

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
shared a marked identity of views on the "incalculable" effecte
ther good or bad, that the devaluation would have on Philippine
I have often been confronted by questions like, "What is the
reign policy of the Philippines?" or "How would you define a nati
foreign policy?" Frankly, these questions beggar any categorical
answer. It is next to impossible to define exactly what the Repub-
lic's foreign policy is nor to delimit the scope of that policy. It
would be much easier, however, to understand the character and pat-
tern of that foreign policy by evaluating it against a broad outline
of its cardinal objectives.
Within the brief life of the Republic, the Philippines has evol-
ved the following salient objectives of her foreign policy:
1. The promotion and maintenance of friendly relations with all
nations of the world;
2. Adherence to the principles of the United Nations Charter and
support of the measures takcn by that international organization to
maintain international pecce and security, solve pressing economic,
social and cultur al problems of international importance and promote
fundamental human rights for all;
3. Promotin of the mutually advantageous special relatin s bet-
ween the Philippines and the United Statcs;
4. Adherence to the principles of democracy and the preservation
of our d emocratic way of life;
5. Support of the asrirations of dependent and non-self-governing
peoples to solf-determination;
6. Early and mater ial recognition of our just claims against Ja-
pan and an unequivocal position against Japan's resurgence in the
future as a dominant pover capable once more of threatening the peace
of this part of the world; and
7. Development of the Republic's national economy along lines of
international cooperation and regional integration.
In the implementation of the first objective of our foreign policy,
the Republic is cnergetically lining up new friends all over the world
and in turn is the object of gestur es of f riendship f rom countrie s big
and small. Evidence of this is t he conglomerate of bilateral treaties
and pacts concluded by t he Republic and the multila teral conventin s
(more)

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
SHEET
and protocols to which the Republic is a signatory. Altogether,
the Philippines has concluded 70 different treaties with various
countries all over the world while 20 pacts of differing character
are now under negotiation. Of these treaties, 8 are pacts of amity
with the United States, China, France, Italy, Spain, Ecuador, Turkey
and Thailand, while similar pacts are currently under negotiation
with 6 countries, namely: India, Brazil, Greece, Mexico, Pakistan
and Burma. We are at present conducting negotiations for the purpose
of concluding treaties of commerce and navigation with the United
States, Argentina, Italy, China and Egypt. In addition, the Philip-
pines has already signed 8 air transport agreements with 8 different
countries. Nine similar agreements are scheduled for early signature.
The Philippines is furthermore a signatory to 7 conventions and pro-
tocols with humanitarian objectives and 5 conventions and protocols
on communications.
Proof of the Republic's zealous bid for the friendship of other
countries is the number of iplomatic and consular offices that the
Philippines has been able to establish all over the world despite
budgetary limitations. Today, the Republic maintains an embassy in
Washington; two special missions consisting of the Philippine mission
in the Unite? Nations an? the special mission to SCaP in Tokyo; 6
legations, namely in Lon on, Buenos Aires, Rome, Bangkok, Madrid and
Nanking; 6 consulates general in San Francisco, Honolulu, New York,
Sydney, Calcutta, and Shanghai; 8 consulates including an honorary
consular office in Guam.
It may be pertinent to mention that the Philippines has given
importance to the establishment of new consular offices in Asia and
the Far East. For this renson, e consulate general has been recently
opened in Calcutta and consulates est blished in Karachi, and in
Batavia esp&te the inadequacy of the Department's appropriations in
this year's budget.
Plans are unler consideration to complete this
network of consular posts in Southeast Asia by the establishment of
offices in Singapore an Rangoon.
(more)

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
SHEET 5.
Most of these consular establishments have since become se
supporting although, by their very nature, they are not supposed to
be revenue-producing offices. For every peso invested by our govern-
ment in their maintenance, we have earned back 40 cents in consular
fees.
The opening of these new offices reflects the increasing pre-
occupation of the Repuhlic with the affairs of her neighbors and sig-
nificantly underscores our esire not only to stabilize our relations
with these neighbors but to integrate our infant economy with the
overall regional economy
of Asia and the Far East.
The Philippines has faith in the principles of the United Na-
tions Charter. That faith has found
eloquent expression in the ac-
complishments of
our delegations to that international organization,
its organs and specialized agencies, particularly our delegation to
the Generel Assembly under the able leadership of Ambassador Carlos
P. Romulo.
Ambassador Romulo, in his brief speech before the General
Assembly shortly after his election as president echoed that faith
which is now manifest in his current efforts to bring about an early
settlement of the United States-Soviet impasse on the control of
atomic emergy.
The four years of Philippine participation in the Councils of the
United Nations is a proud record of initiative if not leadership in
the field of international cooperation. A recapitulation of the long
list of Philippine contributions in the shaping of vital policy deci-
sions adopted at the meetings of the United Nations' specialized agen-
cies such as the ECAFE, FAO, UNESCO, ILO, WHO, ICAO, the World Bank,
non-United Nati ns agencies such as the now defunct IEFC in Washing-
ton would be superfluous. They are a matter of common knowledge.
In this connection, I shoula like to echo President Quirino's
reiteration of the fact that our initiative in the formation of the
projected Southeast Asia Union, was not, as a few originally suspected,
designed to make the Union operate outsile of but within the framework
of the United Nations.
(more)

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
SHEET 6.
The mutually advantageous relationship that exists at presen
between the Philippines and the United States has a background of
years of fruitful association between the two countries.
It is pre
cisely the existence of these
special ties that sometimes exposes
Philippine foreign policy to the criticism that our foreign policy
follows the pattern set in Washington. This criticism has no founda-
tion in fact.
Philippine foreign policy has not been dependent upon that of the
United States. The sharply livergent lines occasionally pursued by
the two governments on a broad field of issues clearly prove this
assertion. I cite our position as regards Franco Spain and Japan on
which the Philippines presented different views.
Staunch, unswerving support of the aspirations of non-self-
governing peoples towards independence has become a moral commitment
of our Republic in the field of international diplomacy. As the first
nation in this part of the world to attain independent status since
the War, the Philippines stands out as an example of a nation which
attained freedom through peaceful and progressive evolution.
This as-
pect of the foreign policy structure of the Republic is easily mani-
fest in the
Philippines' espousal of the
cause of
Indonesia in the
councils of the United Nations. Recently, we approved a credit line
for the Republic of Indonesia to enable her to hasten her rehabilita-
tion and we voted for her admission as
an associate member of the
ECAFE.
Only the other day at the United Nations trusteeship committee
meeting in Lake Success the Philippine resolution binding "governments
which have colonial responsibilities" to immediately set programs lead-
ing to the "ultimete independence of territories under trusteeship
control" was approved.
This sympathy for the so-called "unredeemed minorities" also ex-
plains the Philippine position on the problem of the disposition of the
former Italian colonies of Libya, Somaliland and Eritrea. This posi-
tion may be described as
one
of strict observance of the fundamental
wishes of the peoples of
the
areas
concerned.
The same ardent sympathy
for the cause of colonial peoples is evident in the Philippine stand
(more)
