894.911 Public Press., Japan, Newspapers., September 5, 1945 - January 18, 1949 (File 1685)
ID: 894.911-1685   Pages: 97   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.911-public-press-japan-7
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT
CENTRAL SERVICES
OF
TELEGRAPHSECTION
TELEGRAM
STATE
OFFICE OI
ACTION - RPA
INFO:
1945
S
Buenos Aires
U
VII-1299-W
EUR
This tolegram must be
Dated Sopt. 5, 1945
DC/R
ARA
closcly paraphrascd bep
FE
forc boing communic ted
Rec8d 3:40 p.m.
DC/L-K to anyone. (CONFIDENTIAL)
ES
FC
OPI
Secrctary of State
INI
A-M
Washington
SPA
SA
SA/M
2073, Soptembor 5, 2 p.m.
894.9
EUR/x
Govcrnment decrée published -Sept 4 has ordered closure
of all Japanose publications and print shops listed
in my note vorbale of July 17 to Foroign Office: and
9-545
in addition LA OTR. ALE IA and EVANGELISCHE
GERIMINBL..T. R EMBDES 34l, July 17 entitled "Roappearance
of Japanoso Tross in Argontine". Details by airmail.
Failure to close DIE ZEITunG being brought to attontion
of Forcign Office.
BR. DEN
CONFIDENTIAL
TD
B3
8
are
6
Anal
4.911
Cni
Di:
85

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
JAN221946
RESTRICTED
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Lima.
Acting
The Beeretary of State recently received from the
American Consulate General at Sao Paulo, Brazil, a re-
quest for copies of current newspapers published in
Japan in Japanese for distribution among the Japanese
0
94.911/12-1545
colony in Brazil with a view to convincing the members
of the colony of the reality of the defeat of their
home country.
A collection of Tokyo newspapers issued since the
surrender has been forwarded to the Department by the
Acting United States Political Adviser at Tokyo. The
Political Adviser has suggested that in addition to
distributing these newspapers in Brazil, it might be
well to furnish coples to the Embassy at Lima in view
of the large Japanese population in Peru and the like-
lihood that the Japanese there may also remain uncon-
vinced of the fact of defeat and ignorant of conditions
in Japan since the surrender. Accordingly, there are
transmitted herewith a collection of such newspapers
for distribution, in the Embassys disoretion, among the
CS/LE
Japanese resident in Peru.
JAN 2.
Enclosures:
Japanese newspapers.
AN18
894.911/12-1545
NNC
SPD:EDKupp1nger:EHJ
1-10-46
INI

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
JAN171948
RESTRICTED
To the
American Consular Officer in Charge,
Sao Paulo (Brazil).
The Acting Secretary of State refers to the second
paragraph of the Department's airgram 219 of November 30,
1945 regarding the Consulate General's suggestion that
copies of recent Japanese newspapers be obtained for
distribution among the Japanese colony in Brazil.
894.911/12-1545
A number of copies of current Tokyo newspapers
1ssued since the surrender have been obtained from
the Acting United States Politifal Adviser and are be-
ing forwarded to the ConsulatgSunder separate cover.
The Department will be interested in receiving
the Consulate General's evaluation of the effeet of
these newspapers on tha Japanese colony in Brazil.
The question of relief shipments to Japan has not
as yet been clarified and the Department wiil communi-
cate subsequently with the Consulate General in that
regard.
894.911/12-1545
CS/VJ
894.911
CORV
A true sept
JAN 16 26
44
Quwr
2
SPD:EDKuppinger:EHJ 1-10-46
JA
ININ

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVI
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMEI
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLI.
5A
Tokyo,Je
JABA
NO. 106
SUBJECT:
Transmission of Japanese Newspapers for
DOIR
Distribution to Japanese Colonis in
South America.
SPECIAL PROJECTS
JAN 5 1946 681:82
The HonorabJe
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BA
The Secretary of State,
JA
Washington.
10-2945
xx894911
Sir
894.48
I have the honor to refer to/the sec ond paragraph
894.911/
of the Department's telegram No. 172, November 30, 7 p.m.,
stating that leaders of the Japanese colony in Brazil
have requested copies of current Japanese newspapers,
and to forward under separate cover a collection of Tokyo
newspapers issued since the surrender.
In connection with the distribution of these news-
papers in Brazil, it is suggested that part of the
collection might be forwarded to the Embassy in Lima,
2
Peru, in view of the large Japanese population in Peru
1545
and the likelihood that Japanese there may also remain
unconvinced of the fact of defeat and ignorant of con-
ditions in Japan since the surrender. It is believed
that the distribution of such newspapers will have a
salutary propaganda effect upon the Japanese in Latin
America, revealing to them the progress toward democra-
tization now taking place in their homeland.
Respectfully yours,
at H3
CS
Accompaniment:
One package containing
Japanese newspapers.
Copy to Consulate General, Sao Paolo, Brazil.
Copy to Embassy, Lima, Peru.
Original and duplicate, with reverse
carbon, to Department.
DOR V Unit
891
JKEmmerson:dm
B.R.T.
Uat
Dist

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, December 15, 194s.
NO. 106
SUBJECT: Transmission of Japanese Newspapers for
Distribution to Japanese Colonies in
South America.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the seeond paragraph
of the Department's telegram No. 172, November 80, 7 p.m.,
stating that leaders of the Japanese coleny in Brazil
have requested copies of current Japanese newspapers,
and to forward under separate cover a collection of Tokyo
newspapers issued since the surrender.
In conneotion with the distribution of these news-
papers in Brazil, it is suggested that part of the
colleotion might be forwarded to the Embassy in Limm,
Peru, in view of the large Japanese population in Peru
and the likelihood that Japanese there may also remain
unconvinced of the faot of defeat and ignorant of con-
ditions in Japan since the surrender. It is believed
that the distribution of such newspapers will have a
salutary propaganda effect upon the Japanese in Latin
America, revealing to them the progress toward demoora-
tization now taking plaoe in their homeland.
Respectfully yours,
George Atoheson, Jr.
Accompaniment:
One package containing
Japanese newspapers.
Copy to Consulate General, Sao Paolo, Brazil.
Copy to Embassy, Lima, Peru.
Original and duplicate, with reverse
carben, to Department.
891
JKEamers on: dm

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
D13
RPA
BY COURIER
EMBASSY OF THE
gesg,
SA/M
Buenos Aires, Argentina, July /7, 1945,
Central Information Office
(C.I.O.) Report.
wely
341
No.
Subject: Reappearance of Japanese Press in Argentina.
S
CONFIDENTIAL
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
gir:
894.911/7-1745
I have the honor to report that two of the three
Japanese language dailies which suspended publication
i Buenos Aires on March 27, 1945, at the time of the
Argentine declaration of war on Japan, have reappeared
In Spanish. In this connection I made representations
to the Foreign Office today on the basis of Chapultepeo
Resolution VII and Rio Resolution XVII, looking to the
further closure of these enemy papers which were nomi-
nally intervened by decree on April 2, 1945.
1/
A copy of my note verbale is enclosed in which it
is recommended that these newspaper businesses be li-
quidated and their records and books be confiscated for
examination, and their type be taken over; that other
Japanese print shops be closed; that Japanese sponsored
Spanish language magazines be closed; that the Japanese
Church Bulletin be suspended; and that action be taken
to restrain from further activity the Japanese propa-
gandists who are known to operate on behalf of Japanese
interests.
If these newspapers in particular are allowed to
continue they will assist in maintaining a unified
Japanese colony and will serve as centers of Japanese
propaganda in addition to the possibility of their use
CS/MAJ
by the enemy for espionage purposes. To date they have
carried what appear to be articles and advertisements
but if allowed to continue may soon resume viciously
anti-American Tokyo propaganda.
One of these newspapers reappeared in June in
Japanese clandestinely and was mailed to former sub-
scribers as a test to see whether it would be stopped.
Apparently it was stopped inasmuch as subsequent is-
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REPRODUCTION SÉCTION
sues have been in Spanish. It will be recalled that
894..911
the three
01110
Fr

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
AIR MAIL
-2-
the three dailies petitioned the Argentine Government
in March immediately after suspension to be allowed
to reappear in Japanese or Spanish in a form approved
by the Argentine Government. These petitions were
ignored for a long time, but have now quite apparently
been approved by the Government.
Respectfully yours,
Spruike Braden
Enclosure:
1. Copy of Note Verbale of July 17, 1945, to the
Foreign Office Regarding Stoppage of Japanese
Propaganda.
Original (for Ozalid machine) to Department.
File No. 820.02.
GW: jad

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 34
dated July 7 , 1945, from the Ameriean
AIR MAIL
Embassy at Buenos Aires, Argentina.
NOTE
VERBALE
The Embassy of the United States of America
presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and Worship and has the honor to refer to
Resolution VII of the Act of Chapultepec and to
Resolution XVII of the Rio Conference on the subjeot
of suppression of Axis subversive and propaganda
activities.
In this connection it is pointed out that two
of the three Japanese newspapers which suspended
publication at the time Argentina declared war on
Japan on March 27, 1945, have reappeared. If these
enemy papers are allowed to continue they will not
only assist in maintaining a unified Japanese colony,
but will serve once again as centers of Japanese
propaganda and subversive influence, and may well be
used by the enemy for espionage purposes. One of
the papers (the former El Argentin Djijo) appeared
in the Japanese language in a clandestine manner in
June, but was converted to Spanish in July, four bi-
weekly numbers having been published through July 10,
1945, under the name of Sol de Mañana. Another, the
former El Nichia Djidji appeared on July 9, 1945 as
a Spanish Tanguage weekly called Senda. Both papers
are being printed on the premises of the Japanese
language dailies.
In addition to the foregoing cases there are
other centers of Japanese subversive propaganda still
operating in Argentina. A list of some of these
centers and the persons involved together with ad-
dresses is herewith furnished to the Ministry for its
assistance in the liquidation of their activities and
the confiscation of their records and books for exa-
mination, and the confiscation of Japanese printing
type. Pertinent names and addresses are as follows:
Japanese Newspapers
Sol de Mañana (El Argentin Djijo), Uspallata 981,
operated under cover of Hirokichi HoNDA, former press
room and collection man of El Argentin Djijo. Tele-
phone: 23-1480 (Nueva Japón tintoreria). Registro
Nacional de la Propiedad Intelectual..No. 190,416.
Also formerly known as Noticiario Argentino. Director
and proprietor: Tsutomu MIZUNO (MIDZUNO). Editor:
Hitoshi YOKoo. Employees: Mrs. Kaneko YOKoo, Tatsuo
SAITO, Masayoshi SAKAMOTO, Yojiro MATSUI, Hirokichi
HONDA.
Senda (El Nichia Djidji), Melincué 3124, Villa
del Parque, operated under cover of Martin A.
Mackintosh
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Worship
of the Argentine Republic.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
AIR MAIL
Mackintosh, P.0. Box 9, Branch 17, Villa del Parque,
Telephone 50-7280 (provisorio). Mackintosh is also
President of the Association of Friends of the Japa-
nese Language and is a Japanese collaborationist.
Formerly known also as Diario Nipón de Buenos Aires.
Editor: Yasuhiko NIIMURA. Employees: Yoshikazu (?)
KAWADA; Suchiro SUZUKI, a correspondent; Zenshichi
SHOJI.
Diario Nan-A (Diario Japonés en la Argentina),
Méjico 2044. Publisher-Editor: Takaichi SHINTAkU.
Employees: Eishi TSUBOI, Seitaro NAKANO, Tadada (?)
ABE, Toshio MASUDA.
Japanese Magazines
Nuestra Unión, Uruguay 763, 4th floor (law of-
fices of Dr. Tsugimaru TANOUE, president of Nuestra
Unión Club Magazine is published by the Cultural
Section of  le Club, organized by Japanese youth.
La Aurora, magazine published by the Institución
Cultural "Sadao Ando", Defensa 5lo. It is mainly
designed for Japanese youth born in Argentina and
contains propaganda articles. The magazine also sets
forth the work done by the Institution and advises
the students on their careers.
La Floricultura, organ of the Buenos Aires Horti-
culturalists Association (Sociedad Cooperativa de
Floricultores de Buenos Aires Ltda.), Leandro N. Alem
15l8-l536, which association is controlled by Japanese
interests but includes many Argentine members in the
organization.
Japanese Church Propaganda Sheet
La Epistola del Pastor (Japanese Church bulletin),
Magallanes. 1238. Weekly or bi-monthly bulletin in
Spanish and Japanese. The two texts differ widely.
Editor: Pastor Chikara TANI is reportedly a Buddhist
priest.
Japanese Print Shops
Nippon Do, Santiago del Estero 975. Bookstore
and printing. Prints Japanese Association lists.
Proprietor: Minoru KITAGAWA, head of the Black Dragon
Society in Argentina.
Taho Do, Belgrano 1470. Print shop on Hara and
Company premises with clandestine Japanese bookstore
in the basement.
Some Leading Propagandists
Sadao ANDO, Institución Cultural Sadao Ando,
Defensa 5Io, arranges school facilities for Japanese
students

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
AIR MAIL
- 3 -
students. He is a leading Japanese businessman in
Buenos Aires, and publishes Japanese propaganda tracts
from time to time, including in October 1942, a plan
for Japanese post-war economic domination of Argentina.
George Yoshio SHINYA, Serrano 553, agent of the
International Cultural Promotion Society, 25 de Mayo
l45, 4th floor, and founder of the Instituto Cultural
Argentino-Japonés, Viamonte 1435, telephone 44-6030.
Rikuro SHIMIZU and Takeshi EHARA of the former
Japanese Tourist Bureau, renamed the Toa Communications
Company, 25 de Mayo 145, 4th floor, are active Japanese
propagandists.
Gensuke SHIBUYA, director of Asociación de Estudios
Japoneses, Chacabuco ll95, 1st floor.
Kiyoshi ARAKAMI, Japanese propagandist, c/o Japa-
nese newspaper at Uspallata 98l. Has connections with
Japanese Army.
Dr. Albino PUGNALIN, Corrientes 330, 5th floor,
former editor of Oriente y Occidente which he published
for the Japanese Embassy until Embassy closed early in
1944. Dr. Pugnalin was formerly Argentine Minister to
Tokyo and has continued to occupy one of the former
offices of the Japanese Embassy at Corrientes 33o, and
has worked consistently for Japanese interests, being
instrumental in securing the reappearance of the Japa-
nese press.
Dr. Martin A. MACKINTOSH, Río Bamba 178, president
of the Association of the Friends of the Japanese
Language, 25 de Mayo 145, 4th floor. Other offioors
of this organization are Vice President: Arturo DURSELEN;
Secretary: Elena AKTYOSHI; Treasurer: Julio NIENSTEDT;
Counselors: Takeshi EHARA and Rikuro SHIMIZU; Librarian:
José WEBER; Professor: Emilio HOSHI.
Antonio José de Silva SOUZA, Esmeralda 570, 12th
floor, former passenger agent for Osaka Shosen Kaisha,
active propaganda agent for Japanese.
Buenos Aires, July 17, 1945.
File No. 820.02.
GW: jad

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
JAS
DOVISION OF CULTA
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
JAN 261946
Tokyo, Japan, January
DC
RESTRICTED
NO. 172
SUBJECT: Report on the Yomiuri-Hochi.
NC
JA
1FE/R
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
C
Washington.
C
sir:
I have the honor to transmit a copy of a report on the
influential Japanese ne wspaper, Yomiuri-Hochi, by General
Headquartors, Supreme Conmander for the Allied Powers.
The Yomiuri-Hochi is of interest because of its trans-
form ation, during the past two months, into the most liberal
of the great Japanese dailies. Under its former President
and majority owner, SHORIKI Matsutaro, it hed been ultra-
militaristic and aggressively pro-Axis. The management at-
tompted to resist democratic change until late in October,
1945, when the employees, encoureged by SCAP directives on
froedom of the press, seized control of the paper. Though
ousted from actual control by this unigue "strike", SHORIKI
refused compromise until after pub lication of the SCAP order
on December l, 1945 for his arrest as a ma jor war criminal
suspect. On Decemb er 11, 1945, SHORIKI resigned and a sweep-
ing reorganization of the paper, in general accordance with the
demands of the employees, was carried out and BABA Tsunego, a
publicist of liberal beckground became president. As these dev-
elopments took place subseguent to the preparation of the SCAP
report on Deceniber 8, there is enc losed a copy of a news article
in the JIJI News Service of December 1l.
C
Although the radical tone of the paper seems to have modera-
ted slightly since the conclusion of the "strike"—presumably due
to the influence of Mr. BABa-left wing influence is still strong.
SUSUKI Tomin, leader of the employees' organization and chief of
the editorial department, has been announced as a candidate for
the Diet on the Communist ticket. Circulation is continuing to
894.911
grow. Recently the paper has ce ried a series of articles rfut-
ing the mythical version of Ja nese history.
儿101946
FIL.ED
Respectfully yours,
7-1
Gearge Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosures:
HEOTO
SENT TO FR
CZALID
EB131946

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
1. Special Report on the Yomiuri-
Hochi Newspaper.
2. News Article, JIJI News Service,
Decamb er 11, 1945.
Original and hectograph to Department.
891
JSService:anl

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 172 of January 7, 1946 from the
United States Political adviser, Tokyo, Japan, on the subject
"Report on the Yomiuri-Hochi".
RESTRICTED
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNTTED STATES ARMY FORCESPACIFIC
Office of the Chief of Counter Intelligence
Civil Censorship Detachment
8 Decamber 1945
SPECIAL REPORT ON YOMIURI-HOCHI NEWSPAPER
GENERAL:
The YOMIURI-HOCHI newspaper, usually referred to merely as
"Yomiuri", is the result of the merger of YOMIURI SHIMBUN and HOCHI
SHIMBUN in 1942. Prior to and during the war, it was the most na-
tionalistic of all big daily papers. YOMIURI has the highest dec-
lared circulation of the great Tokyo dailies, but is not regarded
as equal to Asahi or Mainichi in news service, facilities, reliabi-
lity or dignity of reporting and editing. At present, revolution
in the management promises to make great changes in YOMIURI.
History:
HOCHI SHIMBUN was started in 1872. uring its long history it
encountered banning and suspension for advocating freedom and consti-
tutional government. Several editors became high government offi-
cials, including Tsuyoshi Inukai, who as Premier was assassinated in
May, 1932.
The paper had financial difficulties and in l930 was taken over
by Seiji Noma, a successful putlisher of monthly magazines. Circula-
tion wes only 230,000 in 1938. H0CHI failed to prosper and was taken
over by Matsutaro Shoriki as president in l94l. HOCHI became known
as a loud fascist organ, a ready medium of expression for Germen of-
ficials in Japan. Absorption by YOMIURI in 1942 ended HOCHI's life
as a separate paper.
YOMIURI SHIMBUN is one of Tokyo's oldest newspapers, being est-
ablished in 1874, but until the early 1930's it was only a supplemen-
tary paper to subscribers of Asahi or Nichinichi. Before Matsutaro
Shoriki, the "Japanese Hearst", president since 5 February 1924, made
it a political paper, YOMIURI's chief appeal was in literary and
women's columns.
Growth Under Shoriki:
Shoriki, who was ordered arrested as a war criminal 3 December
1945, began his career as a police inspector for the Metropolitan
Police Board in l9l3, rising to Director of the Police Department
ten years later. An ultra-nationalist, Shoriki became a leading
figure in the Japanese publishing field, and the Japan Tourist Bureau.
He became general director of the Imperial .Rule Assistance Associa-
tion, which he helped organize. He he ld membership in many other
influential

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
influential nationalistic organizations, including the House of
Peers, and the Thought Investigating Committee of the Education
Ministry, and was councillor to the cabinet in l944.
Shoriki built YOMIURI's circulation from 70,000 to 1,800,000,
the highest in Tokyo. His policy was to play up sensational news,
in a free and unconventional style. With the China war, he changed
the single eight page evening edition to two evening edition of
four pages for late news coverage. Japanese papers are like the
English, with ads on the front page. YOMIURI adopted the american
style, with news and bold headlines on the front page. YOMIURI
lacled the staff correspondents abroad, foreign cables, ezclusive
wires and aeroplanes of Asahi and Mainichi, and the news was less
accurate, but Japanese found YOMIURI readable and interesting.
Stunts which helped promote circulation included photograph-
ing the sea bed, exploration of active volcano craters, tournaments
of Japanese chess and "go". Suggestive novels end personal advice
columns for readers also lured subscribers.
Circulation:
In 1938, HOCHI had a circulation of 230,000 compared to YOMIURI's
950,O00. YOMIURI-HCCHI circulation figures after the merger are
tabulated below. 1he drop during mid-l945 accompanied american bomb-
ing.
10 Dec. 1942
1,728,194
10 Dec. 1943
1,838,134
10 Dec. 1944
1,413,439
10 Mar. 1945
1,826,438
10 Apr. 1945
1,619,813
10 May 1945
1,126,796
10 June 1945
849,418
10 July 1945
826,048
10 Aug. 1945
993,215
10 Sept 1945
970,617
10 Oct. 1945
1,163,326
10 Nov. 1945
1,627,676
Note: Japenese circulation claims are not always reliable,
as they are not verified by an auditing bureau, as in america.
Control and Ownership:
No large Japanese paper was so dominated by one man as YOMIURI,
under Shoriki as president and chief stockholder. YOMIURI stock-
holders owning more than lo00 shares are listed below:
President Matsutaro Shoriki
36,996
Shoriki Koseikai (a corporate
person, or holding company,
owned and controlled by
Matsutaro Shoriki)
20,150
Osamu Takenaka
9,004
Vice President Yusai Takahashi
4,550
Others
10,300
Total Yomiuri Stock
81,000
Like Shoriki

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Like Shoriki, Vice President Takahashi is a former police
official.
Finance:
The following information is extracted from YOMIURI's balance
sheet, as of 30 april 1945.
Fixed assets
Tangible Assets
6,167,109.78
Intangible assets
1,812,462.00
Floating Assets
6,442,020.76
TO TAL DEBITS
14,421,592.54
Capital
8,100,000.00
Ordinary shares
260,000.00
Legal Reserve
550,000.00
Optional Reserve
3,962,294.22
Liabilities
673,151.43
Reserve Funds
Profits
202,205.96
Profits carried forward
Current terms profits
673,940.93
TOTAL CREDITS
14,421,592.54
Organizational Structure:
YOMIURI's organization is indicated in the following outline.
President*
Vice President*
Executives*
Clerical Department
Includes clerical, personnel, finance and
supply sections.
Editorial Department
Includes arranging (make up), political,
economic, city, foreign news, proof
reading, inter-liaison, and pictorial
sections.
Planning Department
Includes telegraphic section, and enter-
prise section.
Managing Department
Includes publicity, distributing, printing,
accounting, braille, magazines**, and
magazine printing** sections.
 At present being ignored in operation of paper
**YOMIURI formerly printed several periodicals, but at present
publishes only the daily newspaper.
Technical

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
Technical Department
Plating, planting, printing, and technical
sections are included.
Library Department
Includes investigating section and filing
section.
Post war Policy under Shoriki:
Having made YOMIURI ultra-militaristic and anti-democratic before
and during the war, the paper's owners were opposed to any liberal,
anti-bureaucratic policy following Japan's surrender. At an editorial
committee meeting on 18 August 1945, Shoriki's henchman, vice-presi-
dent and chief editor Takahashi stated the policy to be "not to play
up liberalism too much because right wingers will be sure to make a
comeback in the future."
With threats of dismissal or transfer, he suppressed editorials
calling for clarification of Shoriki's war-responsibility, democratiz-
ing of YOMIURI's organization and distribution of stocks and supplies
hoarded by militarists and bureaucrats. On 20 October discussion of
the Imperial institution was banned.
News articles denied publication include discussion of the Im-
perial Rule Assistance Association, criticism of Tojo Cabinet power
politics, discussion of constitutional revision, facts about Japan's
pre-war foreign policy, information on the treatment of Japanese sol-
diers taken prisoner, proposal to dissolve the Zaibatsu, and other
pro-democratic sentiments.. In early October attempt was made to pro-
vent publication of the Macarthur-Hirohito photograph.
Employees Seize Control:
On 23 October 1945 a meeting of all YOMIURI employees decided to:
1.
Organize a union.
2.
Democratize the company.
3.
Better working conditions.
4.
Establish a fraternal society and
cooperative store.
The resulting organization, YOMIURI SHIMBUN SHA JUGYO-IN KUMIAI
(Yomiuri Newspaper Company Employees Organization) was organized in
Novenber, with the following temporary offices.
TOMIN SUZUKI
Chairman
TOKUNOSHUKE MIKAWA
Treasurer
KOMI TOKIZAWA
Recording Secretary of the
Round Table
Note: On 10 November 1945, YQ4IURI had 1875 employees, 1731
male and 144 female.
after the October &3rd meeting, the employees seized control of
the paper, and ceased to follow instructions of Shoriki and his
sympathizers.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5-
sympathizers. Efforts to arbitrate the dispute are being made.
Encouraged by SCAP directives on freedom of the press the employees
revolutionized the policy of YOMIURI. They have the support of other
newspapers. Conmented Asahi editorially: "This problem is a movement
to build up the newspapers as organs of true democratic public opinion
at the hands of the newspapers themselves."
Attacks on Shoriki:
From late October until Shoriki was ordered arrested 3 December,
YOMIURI printed attacks on Shoriki and called for his resignation
along with the vice president, bureau chiefs and the directorate, "A
rearguard of feudalism." Editorial writers denounced the Japanese
press and called for punishment of those responsible for the war press,
described as "a cat's paw for the military, financial cliques and the
bureaucracy", which deliberately deceived the people regarding the
war. The press financial cliques "have decided to patch up the situa-
tion in the garb of Democracy, but they have frequently allowed their
will to defend the military and favor the bureaucracy to be manifested
as you see such examples in our paper."
Shoriki promised a 30% pay raise in December, demotion of Taka-
hashi and Managing Editor Nakamitsu, and assumption of war responsi-
bility "in some form or other at a suiteble time." Employee leader
Suzuki termed the offer "immaterial" and "attempted appeasement."
YOMIURI quoted Shoriki as saying "The present tendency is a
temporary trend, and rightista or ultra-nationalists will soon regain
their power." The writer declared, "This shows that he is not only
anti-democratic, but an ultra-nationalist." On 9 November in a pro-
minent spot in the paper an article accused President Shoriki of
"admiring and imitating nazis and of supporting the Army, Navy and
General Tojo for personal benefit." YOMIURI printed a letter reading
in part: "Employees of YOMIURI are striving for democratization of
the firm and ress....Shoriki has used his paper as an organ for the
Zaibatsu and as a tool for his political ambitions....Through his ac-
tions and policies, much suffering has been caused in society".
Policy on Current Questions:
On current problems YOMIURI policy supports a peaceful but sweep-
ing revolution in Japanese econony, government, politics, land owner-
ship, education, industry and social structure. YOMIURI supported
editorially the SCAP "war doesn't pay" directive to "squeeze the wealth
from industrialists and capitalists." It also supports the land reform
plan. In educational reform, YoMIURI advocated not only removal of mili-
tary indoctrinators, but weeding out of inc ompetents as well. The
"Japanese Liberal Party" is criticised as "liberal in name only." In
attacking the present Diet and House of Peers, the papers said, "It is
hard to find a present member knowing the meaning of the word "freedom".
Policy on War Responsibility:
YOMIURI criticism extends to all persons active during the war.
In a series of articles, it took the lead in presenting the people the
truth about events leading up to the war. YOMIURI's "History of the
Fall of Japan" is fectual and accurate. The front page for December 6
carried

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
carried detailed information that the Emperor attended two secret
meeting where war with the United States was definitely decided at
least three months before Pearl Herbor. Prince Konoye and General
Nishio were quoted as the paper's source of information.
Powerless officials:
The following are officials of YOMIURI who maintain a nominal
position only, their "authority" being disregarded by the employees
now in control of the paper, because of their support of Shoriki's
policies.
Matsutaro Shoriki
President
Yusai Taka hashi
Vice President and Chief Editor
Mitsue Mutai
Director, YOMIURI, and Chairman,
Japanese Press Association.
(Wartice body which controlled
allocation of newsprint)
Yoshichika Nakemitsu
Administrator, Editorial Dept.
Zenhachi Sanui
Chief, Welfare Section
Shigeo Miura
Chief, Editorial Dept., and Chief,
Arranging Section
Kiyoshi Ogawa
Chief, City Section
Toyokichi Matsumoto
Chief, Telegraphic Section
Do jun Hashimoto
Chief, Enterprise Section
Fumio Kojima
Chief, Technical Dept.
Shutoku Magara
Asst. Chief, Technical Dept.
Yataro Kenmochi
Councillor to Technical Dept., and
Chief, Plating Section
Isao Fukunaga
Chief, Printing Section
Iwao Kaji
Chief, Technical Section
Personnel, Pro-Dhoriki, but Still Working:
The following men are regarded by the employees as pro-shoriki,
but are allowed to perform a technical job not affecting the policy
of the paper.
Mitsumasa Kobayashi
Director, YOMIURI, and Head of the
General Dept. (Makes out pay
checks, etc.) also former Mng.
Director of the Japanese Broad-
casting Corp. and official in the
Imperial Rule assistance association
Jiro Kane saka
Chief, Clerical Section
Kakuichi ro Hatanda
Chief, Managing Dept.
Atami Haruna
Chief, Printing Section, and Chief,
Magazine Printing Section
Soshu Gunshi
Chief, Accounting Section
Tetsuzo Naka jima
Chief, Library Dept.
"Neutrals" Still Working:
The following men are regarded as neutral in the employee-manage-
mont dispute, and are still working.
Yukichi Kuroki
Member, Editorial Dept.
Shoji Uno

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
Shoji Uno
Chief, Sports Section
Yoshio Ikegami
chief, Plating Section
Toyo Madachi
Councillor, Managing Dept.
YOMIURI Personnel in Actual Power:
at present time, the policy and operation of YOMIURI is con-
trolled by the following men, members of the employees organization.
Tomia Suzuki
Head of Labor Urganization; Chief,
Editorial Dept., and Chairman of
Round Table Discussion
Ikutaro Shimizu
Member, sditorial vept.
Kanichi Yamaura
Member, Editorial Dept.
Toshiyuki Ishihama
Member, Editorial Dept.
Takahashi Oyebara
Asst. chief, General Dept.
Tatsuichi Hishiyama
Editorial Writer
Hikohichiro Okada
Chief, Personnel Section, and
Member, Labor Advisory Committee
Hakaru Suguro
chief, supply Section
Naokatsu Yamada
Head Doctor, YOMIURI infirmary
Mikie Kimura
Chief, Arranging (Make-up) Section
Todoroki Sakai
Chief, Political Section
Shigayo shi nikawa
Writer on domestic politics, for-
merly Chief, Political Section
Yosh iro Banno
Chief, Economic Section
Yukitoshi Tanaka
Chief, Foreign News Section
Zen juro Matsumura
Chief, Proof Reeding Section
Taka shi Taka hashi
Chief, Inter-Liaison Section
Zenkichi rujisawa
Chief, Pictorial Section
Shigetaka Yamaoka
Asst. Chief, Managing vept. and
Chief, Publicity Section
Norio Tanabe
Asst. Chief, Proof Reading Section
Yoshikazu Koyama
Chief, Magazine Section
Yasushi Kanachika
Member, News Selecting committee
Nachiko Doki
Member, News Selecting Committee
Yataro Shimizu
Asst. chief, Library Dept;
Chief, Library Section and
Member, Japanese Language Inves-
tigating committee of the sduca-
tional Ministry
(Defunct since the war)
Kagekatsu Uzawa
Head, Company Record Editing Committee
Yuichi Kobaya shi
Member, Editorial Dept. (Has been on
sick leave for a year)

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to vespatch No. 172 of January 7, 1946 from the
United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan, on the sub ject
"Report on the Yomiuri-Hochi".
LMPLOYEES GAIN VICTORY
IN YOMIURI DISPUTK
JIJI PRESS
TOkYO, vec. ll.-The seven-week old dispute of the Yomiuri
Shimbun was finally settled in a victory for the employees early
this morning when a memorandum was signed by representatives of
employers and employees in the presence of Hisatada Hirose, Gov-
ernor of Tokyo Metropolis.
The special committee set up for settlement of the dispute
worked overnight last night in an effort to find a formula of
settloment prior to the surrender tomorrow of Matsutaro Shoriki,
President of the journal, to the Sugamo Prison as a war criminal
suspect.
The negotiations came to a hit ch three times during the night
and a settlement appeared hopeless, but Mr. Shoriki finally com-
plied with most of his employees' demands and a memorandum was
drawn up at 8:00 o'clock this morning.
The memorandum was immediately referred to the official media-
tion committee set up by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and in
the presence of Governor Hirose and other witnesses the agreement
was signed by Mr. Shoriki and Tomin Suzuki on behalf of the em-
ployers and employees respectively.
Salient points in the memorandum follow:
1. Matsutaro Shoriki, president, Yusai Takahashi, vice-
president, Yoshiohika Nakamitsu, chief editor and other executive
loaders of the journal will resign and Tsunego Baba, well-known
political critic of liberal leaning, will be asked to assume the
presidency of the paper. However, Mitsumasa kobayashi, managing
director, and rumio kobayashi, director, will retain their posts
in accordance with Mr. Shoriki's wishes.
2. out of the 36, 000 shares of the journal owned by Mr.
Shoriki, 25,000 shares will be contributed to the Shoriki welfare
Society in whose operation the employers will be allowed to par-
ticipate. the remaining shares will be disposed of at the dis-
cretion of Mr. Shoriki.
3.  council will be formed by representatives of both
employers and employees as the supreme organ of management of the
paper. The council will be empowered to take decisions on both
the editorial policy and business management.
4. The employers will recognize the employees' union,
with which they will conclude a collective bargaining contract.
The dispute got under way on October 24, when employees of
the Yomiuri shimbun took over the management of the journal because
Mr. Shoriki and other directors refused to comply wit h the demands
for clarification of the paper's war guilts and democratization of
its editorial

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
5
- 2 -
its editorial policy and management.
Since then the Yomiuri dispute has attracted a widespread
interest as an important event in the democratization of labor
relations as well as journalism in Japan. Despite efforts for
mediation exerted by various quarters concerming both Mr. Sho-
riki and the employees remaimed adamant in their respective
stands.
The situation took a turn for settlement, however, when
Mr. Shoriki was designated by the Supreme Allied Headquarters
as a suspected war criminal.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.89)
DC/R
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISIOIDF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
244
FROY
241
E
244
LOT.DOI
0
1
OF EURO
MES:
CJ
DATED Fobruary 27, 1948
2
ACTION: EUR
UNCLASSIF IED
RSCD.
March 1, 1948
INPO:
2:41 p.m.
DC/R
Secretary of Stata,
A-A
A-B
A-S
vashington
FE
A-520, Fe0ruary 27, 1048
CIA
894
C N
FC
Followin questions and answers in regard to
receipt of Unitad States caily newspapory at the United
OIE
Kingdom Liaison Hission in Toityo exchanged in House of
6
Comaons on Fobruary 25, 2040:
Ir. wllliam Teeline (Consurvative U.P. for
Brighton) asked tho Secretary of State for Foreign
2
Afrairs how many mited Stnses da ly newspapers are
-2748
recaivod at the ofi ices of he united Kinrdom Lieison
"isslon in wokyo, mor much money is allocated by the
Treasury fop thoir purchese: het lon it takes Yor
thom to arrive, na vhat momitorin systom is in
oporation fcom as irgton or ew ork for the ission
to be immedietely  formed of Preas and Conpress state-
monts and eorments  Jaean
 crabsrp or State for Poreign
m colssion i
Tokye ree ros
ot ps poulerly by
couptaspy  thoiel sos eaper corter no money is
toeref po alloee
ma y for their purchase;
thop toe yoive o soo
dey in tponcitLo
woultyte
 frem ashington or
 mediately
OU PreE A
e comonte on apan,
ose and Inter
itome of out-
vtlerraphed
8
Mr. Toelin : "Is the pi ht hon. Cortleman awai
that whils the Purliementary dslogetion wus in To
HH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be ébithed DR/R cemtral files with notion of actiomtaken.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 2.
UNCLASSIFTED
A-520
February 27 , 1348
from London
a most important piacu of information appoared in the
Chica o papors and the britiah Enbassy wus quite
unable to obtain any such copy, whoreas S.C.A P.
had alreedy rucoived it by wire from washington? Does
it not somotimes nako it very difficult for the Amb-
ascador to carry out his functions whon he does not
know what is gcing on?"
Mr. Sovin: "I have not tho slightest idea what
happenod whild tho con. Gontloman was in Tokyo. I
was hero. If the hon. Gentleman had let me or the
Ambassador know at once, I would have seer. whether a
remady could havo beun applied. I had nover heard of
thhis until the hon. abar put it to me just now."
ir. Tsaling: "Can sone romedy be applied whereby
somo monitcr in systen can va arrar ged so that the
A abessador can bo keps rogularly informod?"
Lr. Deyin: "tt the Ambascador is in a difficulty,
I oxpoct him to comnmicate with mo. That is only
right and pro er. I will tako up quite strongly why
he shoull complain to Mombers of rarliamont heforo
tellin wo that he is in difriculties."
Ur. Stanley Proscout (Conservative M.P. for
Darwon): " o, that is not fair. Could the right hon.
Centleman ivo tho remos of tho four papers which are
delivered to tho united  in dom ission in Tokyo?"
r. Levin:
"British papors?"
Ir. Proscott: " o, the Amorican papers."
r. Bevi: "I do not seem to have a copy of them
hore. I will let tho hor. Gentloman know."
Ir. Teeling asl:ed the Sccretary of State for
Foreign Aifalrs how many United Ain dom daily news-
papers ere reeslved at the offices of tho United Zing-
don  isslon in Tokyo; hov lon it takos for tham to
arrivo; and what systen is in operation to keep the
UNCLASSIFTED
head/

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.94)
U.CLASSIFTED
Page 3.
A=520
February 27, 1948
from London
head of the Vieslon immediatoly informod of all artioles
ir the Press or rofererces in Parliamant to Jupan.
Ir. Cavin: "Five daily papers und in addition
thrae Sunday papers ane throo weoklies are roceived
at the Officgs of the United Kin dom Liaison Mission
in Tokyo. Thoy are sont by air and take from 15 to
25 days. A summary of important 1tems appearing in
tho Pross is telegraphsd weskly. Any itom of spocial
importanes is imnediatoly suanarisedand tolegraphed
as are all impcrtant Parliamontary referenoes. In
adsition, ta  lsslon poceives cuttings of all Press
and Perliumentary reforoncas by air bag and tho
London Press Sarvico 1s also availabie."
r. Teelin: "Is tho ri ht hon. Jontloman aware
that The AansFican Anibassador in London sende regularly
by monitorin  any nowspaper articles contectod with
Japen from this country to General YacArthur and they
are reccivod by lhim tie next day? lay I also ask if
he is tully aware that in nc circumstances at any
momont did tme Lmbasey in Tokyo put thio to us as a
mattor cf cc.plaint. o found it out for oursolves
hav in lived thure jor throe weel's and kopt our oyes
open."
"r. Dovin: "I have looked throu h what the
office is doin : in son in informatlon und I am quite
satasfjea that wo ero Looning cur mbassles thoroughly
inforsed."
DOUGLAS
Copy to U.o. Polltical Adviser, ScaP, Tokyo
FDrumriht/
.2/26/43
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
DCL
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Politieal Adviser
DCIR
for Japan
DIVISION
JUN41948
No. 288
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: Transmittal of Special Report "The Yomiuri Newspaper"
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to forward herewith,
two copies of report Nc. AR-276-IM-95-PP-B-26 of the Analysis and
Researoh Division, Civil Information and Education Section of this
.911/5-1748
Headquarters, concerning the recent history and organization of the
Yomiuri newspaper, the third largest newspaper in Japan. Approxi-
mately one-half of the report is devoted to a discussion of the
presidency of SHORIKI Matsutaro, his replacement by HABA Taunego,
and the latter's controveray with chief editor, SUZUkI Tomin. In
FE
the course of this discussion, considerable attention is paid to
employee-management relations and the activities of the Yomiuri
Newspaper Company Employees Union.
TC
01E
OCD
SA/M
Enclosure:
Two copies of Report
pc/R
No. AR-276-IM-95-PP-B-26
dated 22 April 1948.
CS/A
Original and ozalid to Department
020
1918 JUN 2 PM 12 00
PARTMERT OF STAEN 21 1948
JDEdwards:emn
RECEIVED
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANIER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
THE
YOMIURI
NEWSPAPER
Special Report Prepared by
Information Media Branch
Research Unit
AR-276-IM-95-PP-B-26
22 April 1948

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
SPECIAL REPORT
SERIAL NUMBER
AR-276-IM-95-PP-B-26
22 April 1948
TITLE
The Yomiuri Newspaper
SUBJECT
A detailed description of the Yomiuri News-
paper
Publishing Company,
its history,
legal structure, organization, finances,
personnel, editorial policy, news sources,
distribution, equipment, and the newspaper
employees' union.
PREPARED BY
Information Media Branch, Research Unit.
DATFS OF STUDY
This report is based on a study "originally
made between 15 April 1946 and 12 Januery
1947, revised and edited with necessary
additions between 1 and 15 January 1948.
CONTENTS
Introduction
ii
History of Yomiuri Newspeper
1
Legal Structure
13
Operating Organization
15
Finencial Affairs
15
Personnel
16
Editorial Policy
18
Sources of News
20
Distribution
21
Equipment
21
The Newspaper Employees' Union
23
Appendices
Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss Statement
25
Employee Labor Contract
28
Sources
31
Charts and Tables
Cwnership of Yomiuri Stock
13
Organization Structure of the Company
14
Circulation of Yomiuri Newspaper
22
Press and Printing Equipment
23

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
INTRODUCTION
BACKGROUND
As the third largest Japanese newspaper, with perhaps the
most turbulent history of any daily journal in the country, the
Yomiuri at present occupies a position which makes a knowledge
of the newspaper's development important to an understanding of
conditions in the Japanese press. This report attempts to as-
semble ell available deta pertinent to such knowledge.
SCOPE
This report covers in detail various aspects of the Yomiuri
newspaper publishing enterprise, with further data on such re-
leted metters as the newspaper's reputation and its impact on
the reading public.
SOURCES OF DATA
A large part of the information included in this report was
obtained from interviews with many principal personelities in
Yomiuri's postwar history, from documents furnished by these in-
dividuels, from records of the firm, and from labor unions and
Japanese Government agencies. Other data were obtained from the
records of Civil Information and Education Section, Civil Cen-
sorship Detachment of G-2 Section, and Economic and Scientific
Section, General He dquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, and from other Occupetion arencies.
EVALUATION OF DATA
All factual statements included herein have been verified
by a concurrence of sources. Statements of opinion and evalua-
tion by members of the Yomiuri staff and the Tokyo press are re-
corded as ccllateral data useful in illustrating the motivations
of those concerned with the problems which arose within the
Yomiuri after the Japanese surrender.
11

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
THE YOMIURI NE SPAPER
IISTCRY
This report is conccrncd primorily with the present
Yomiuri, ond only the circurstances directly ffecting its
operation are described.
The first rajor development in this connection was as-
sumption of control by Matsutoro SHOnIKI, which completely
transforned the previcus character of the newspaper. SHoRIkI's
ouster in 1945 resulted in another reversal of policy and is
described in some detcil, because these events were perhaps
unique in the Jopanese press and lied inportant repercussions
throughout the no spaper ficld. Put the subsequent policy
of the newspaper was not stabilized until the disnute between
President Tsunego BAFA and Chief Editor Tomin SUZUI wes set-
tled, end the menns by which this settlement was reached were
the foundation of future developr ent of the newspaper.
Before and During SHoRIKI's Regire
The postwar Yoriuri Shirbun is the product of the merger
in 1942 of the ccrlier Yoriuri Vith Hochi Shimbun. Hochi,
the older of the two newspopers, was founded in 1872, and dur-
ing its long history suffered banning cnd suspension at varicus
times for advocating freeden end constitutional governrent.
Several of its oditers becrne high governrental officicls, in-
cluding Tsuycshi INUiAI, Whe as Prerier was assessinsted in
Key 1932.
Hochi's difficul tics included finencicl problems, and in
1930 the newspaper was token over by Seiji Noi4,  successful
magozine publisher, vho otterpted to put the paper cn c poying
Stotements in this history ore from Specirl Report, Yomiuri
Hochi Hewspaper, Civil Censorship Detachrent, Civil Intel-
ligence Section, G-2, General Hendaucrters, Supreme Com-
ronder for the Allied Povers, Tokyc, 8 Decenber 1945, un-
less otherwise specified.
1

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
2
TIE YOMIURI NEWSPAPER
basis. Circulation as only 230,000 by 1938, however, and the
journal fciled to prosper until taken over by Matsutaro SHORIkI
in 1941.
As president of the publishing firm, SHoRIkI proceeded to
make Hochi c vocrl Nazi crgon, a roady rediun for expression by
German officials in Japan. When he took over Hochi, SOHIkI hed
been president of the Yomiuri Shirbun for 18 years, end in 1942
the two drilies were combined, ending Hochi's existence as a sep-
arate newspaper. Tihe cor bined daily was called Yoriuri-Hochi
until 1 l'oy j946, when Ecchi was dropped fron the rasthead, and
the paper care to bo known officiclly by its popular title,
Yomiuri.
Yomiuri Shinbun was clso one of Tokyr's cldest neuspapers,
established in 1874; but until the early 1930's it wcs regerded
only as a supplenentary paper by subscribers to Asahi end Mai-
nichi(then known as Michi-nichi). Before it was made a political
organ by S ORIkI, Yoniuri's chief eppeal was in its literary and
women's colurns.
In 1923, when SHoRIXI assumed the presidency of the firm,
Yoriuri's drily circulrtion vs 50,000 copies. At its peak in
1945, SF0RIKI had increcsed the figure to 1, 800,000.
Nothods by which he cchieved this included free and unconven-
tional treatrent of sensctional news, special evening editions,
and typograrhiccl fornet new to the Jopanese newspaper field.
Until the outbreak of the China War, Yoniuri published one even-
ing edition drily, in addition te the regular morning "final"
edition, as did the other leading deilies, but subsequently
Yoniuri split the eight-page evening edition into two four-pege
editions, for lcte news coverege. Jopanese nevspapers tredition-
ally corried advertiserents cn the first page, as do British
newspapers. Yomiuri adopted the Americen style, with bold hend-
lines highlighting the rajor news developments on the front page,
advertiserents and snnller iters being relegated to succeeding
pages. Yomiuri lacked the staff correspondonts abrond, foreign
cables, exclusive wires, and cirplanes for which the Lschi and
Mainichi were noted, but tho Japanese found Yoniuri readable and
interesting, although its news was less occurato than its com-
petitors'.
2
Stunts which helpcd preroto cireulation included photograph-
ing the see bed, explorction of cctive volcano craters, and
tournaments of chess end Jepanose go. Suggestive novels end per-

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
HISTORY
sonal advice also lured subscribers.
SHORIKI, with his aides, made Yomiuri ultranationelistic
and antiderocratic before and during the war, end opposed any
liberal, antiburecucratic policy following Japan's surrender.
At an editorial meeting on 18 August 1945, SHORIKI's henchman,
the vice-president and chief editor, Yusei TAKAHASHI, stated
the policy of the newspaper wos not to play up liberalism,
because right-wingers would be sure to make a coneback. He
also terned governmental burecucracy reforr unnecessary. On
5 September 1945 he refused to publish an article by an edi-
torial writer, NISHIYLMA, calling for revision of the feud-
alistic Governnent Officicl Appointnent Law; and later, with
threats of dismissal or transfer, he refused to publish editor-
ials calling for clarification of SHORIKI's war responsibility,
democretization of Yoriuri's organization, and the distribu-
tion of stocks and materiel supplies hcarded by militarists
and bureaucrats.
Material denied publication also included discussion of
the Imperial Rule Assistance Asscciation, criticism of the
ToJo Cabinet's power pclitics, discussion of constitutional
revision, facts about Japan's prewar foreign policy, infor-
mation on the treatment of Japanese soldiers taken prisoner,
proposals to dissolve the zeibatsu, and other prodemocratic
articles. On 20 Cctober the managenent prohibited discussion
of the Imperial Institution.
The Employee-SHORIKI Dispute
In the face of this situation, a number of dissident
employecs, principally menbers of the editorial staff, ar-
renged an extraordinary meeting of all Yoniuri employees to
take place on the 23rd of Cctober 1945. At this meeting it
was resolved that the erployees would:
1.
Organize a union.
2.
Attempt to derocratize the operation of the firm.
3.
Attempt to secure better working conditions.
4.
Establish a fraternal society and cooperative store.
The resulting organization, Yomiuri Shimbun Sha Jugyo-
in Kumiai (Yomiuri Newspaper Company Empleyees' Union), took
form in November. Tomin SUZUKI was clected temporary chair-
man, Tokunosuke MIKAWA, treasurer, and Koji TOKIZAWA, record-

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
4
THE YOMIURI NEWSPAPER
ing secretary.
Immediately after the 23 October meeting the enployees in
general ceased fcllowing the instructions of SHORIkI and his ex-
ecutives. The more aggressive among them took charge of the
various departments, and SUZUKI assumed actual administretive
duties as editor-in-chief.
Encouraged by Suprere Cormander for the Allied Powers'
directives on freedom of the press, the employees continued
operation of the paper according to their own policies, without
reference to SHORIKI or his supporters. In this the majority
of the Yoniuri employees hed the support of other newspepers.
An Asahi writer termed the developments at the Yoniuri pert of
"a movement to reconstruct the press as an organ of true demo-
cratic public opinicn, in the hands of the newspaper (employees)
thenselves."
The Yo Luri continued to print attacks on SHORIKI until he
was designat ad a najor war crimes suspect on 3 December 1945.
Many of the attacks called for the resignations of the direc-
torate, bureau chiefs, and other cxecutives, as well as the re-
tirement of SHORIKI. Yoniuri editorial writers denounced the
Japanese war press and SHoRIkI, calling for punishnent of all
those responsible for the wholosale deception of the Jepanese
people regarding the wor by means of the controlled press.
Vice-Prosident TAKAHASHI's antiliberal views wore exposed
in the newspaper's columns on 5 November 1945, and in the 9 Novem-
ber . issue an article appeared in e prominent position accusing
SHORIKI of "adniring an? initeting Hazis end of supporting the
Army, Navy, and General TOJO for personal benefit." Another
item on the sere date contended that SHoRIKI had cbused the en-
tire nation's press through his governnent positions.2
2. SHORIKI's positions included renbership in the Thought In-
vestigating Connittee of the Education Hinistry, the Gen-
eral Directorship of the Irperial Rule Assistance Associa-
tion, and e post of counsellor to the Cabinet in 1944.
Ibid. These examrles of articles criticizing SFORIKI, and
others, ray be found in English in the files of press
translations, vols. I through IV, Translators' and Inter-
preters' Section, G-2, General Headquarters, Suprere Com-
nander for the Ailied Powers.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
HISTORY.
Discussions continued during this period between the
employee representatives, led by SUZUKI, and SHORIKI and his
supporters, to reech a workable agreement. A report was car-
ried in the paper on 7 November 1945 that SHORIKI had offered
to raise wages and salaries 30 percent, to add a 20 percent
bonus, to derote his unpopuler vice-president, TAKAHASHI, and
menaging editor, NAKAMITSU, end to assume war respcnsibility
"in some forn or other at a suitable time." SUZUkI terned
this offer "immaterial" and "attempted appeasement."3 SHORI-
KI's naneuver was particularly ineffective as the employees
of the Asahi end Mainichi secured pay increases of lo0 percent
at abcut the same time.4
Agreenent finally was reached largely through virtual
capitulation of the SHORIkI faction, weakened by his impending
arrest. The terns provided that ali SHORIKI's executives re-
tire, with the exception of Mitsumasa KOBAYASHI,5 who was re-
tained as ranaging director of the business department and ad-
visor to the president; and that nanagement of the firm be
placed in the hands of e management council. This council
consisted of six bureau chiefs, at that time members of the
union, and an equal number of representatives elected by the
union. Tonin SuzUkI, who was confirmed as, concurrently,
leader of the union and editor-in-chief, beceme also a member
of the management council, while Tsunego BABA, senior jour-.
nalist end recognized liberal, was appointed president of the
company. BABA Was instelled on 12 December 1945, the day be-
fore SHORIKI was confined to prison.
The BIBA-SUZUKI Dispute
Under this arrangenent SUZUKI was in closer contect with
the daily activities of the journal than President BABA, Due
lergely to this circumstance and his personal assumption of
the duties of political news editor in addition to his other
positions, SUzUkI formulated much of the newspaper's editorial
policy. In spite of fundarental differences in viewpoint be-.
tween BABI. end SUZUKI, the newspaper continued to function,
but not vithout considerable friction generated by the rival
Ibid.
4.
Mainichi Shimbun Sha, Report #1, unpublished report, Civil
Inforration and Education Section, General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the A1lied Powers, 15 January 1946.
5. Later purged under Imperial Ordinance #1 of 1947.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
6
THE YOIURI NEWSPAPER
claims to authority of the two men.
SUZUKI clained the right to formulate editoriel policy, on
the premise that a "denccratic press" meent determination of pol-
icy and scloction of top editorial personnel by the body of em-
ployees, through the union.
On 12 June 1946 SUZUKI said to BABA: "I am working as editor-
in-chief renresenting the union."
This view was a not illogical outgrowth of the neans by
which control of the paper had been wrested fron SHoRIKI. Sub-
sequent developments, however, indicated that SUZUKI's political
outlook, as a widcly recognized Connunist synpathizer,7 was at
veriance not only with the political sontiments of BABA, but with
those of e majority of the firm's erployees as well. In addition,
suZUKI hed pernitted the publication of soveral unverified reperts
of such nature that nany erployees ferred the newspaper's involve-
ment in difficulties with the Japanese Gevernment or Occupation
cuthorities.8
The publication of thesc roports brought the BABA-SUZUKI
disagreenent to a hend. In the discussion between BABA end
6. Conference: Fumitaro WATANABE, editoricl writer of the
Yomiuri, whe later beceme the leader of the independent
Yomiuri Employees' Unicn, 10 January 1947.
7. SuzukI was a condidate for governor of Niigate Prefecture
on the Communist ticket in April 1947.
8. According to Hidetoshi SHIBATA, sccretary to President BABA,
there vere twc serious instences. The first was a reprint
of an article originally carried by the Mainichi on Occupa-
tion use of the Wer Winistry Building, stating that exor-
bitant sums were spent on a ballroon, lounge, etc., al-
though no such exponditures were made. The Chief, Press and
Publications Unit, Civil Infcrmation and Education Section,
Generel Headquarters, Suprene Commander for the Allied
Powers, stoted (in an eddress to the Yomiuri employees on
26 June 1946) that the Yoniuri cditors had been appraised
of the inaccuracy of the account before the reprint. The
second was e story of Yukio ONaki alleging that Chief Sec-
retary of the SHIDEHARA Cabinet NARAHASHI was permitted to
operate and profit fren tho ownership cf tho Hotel Peking,
in defiance of Occupation regulations to the contrary, c1-
though such was not the case. Interview 12 January 1947.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
HISTORY
SUZUKI which these incidents provoked, SUZUKI contended that
an additional editorial assistant to check the factual ac-
curacy of news would be a sufficient safeguard for the future
BABA, however, felt that the errors were more the result of
SUZUkI's political sentiments than of insufficient care in
preparing news material.9
Thus unable to concur in SUZUkI's policies, or advance
his own, Presidont BABA, stating that he could no longer ac-
cept responsibility for the nowspaper under tho circunstances,
offered his resignation to the board of directors. The diree-
tors refused to accept it. With this support, BABA announced
his intention to ask for the resignation of suzUkI and several
staff members who collaborated closely with him. They were
Yoshio BANNO, vice-managing cditor, Toshio YAMNUsHI, headline
editor, Yoshio SHIGA,10 and Satoshi KATAYAMu, editorial writ-
ers, and Nichio IWAMURA, editor of the Yomiuri-published maga-
zine, Rodo Gekkan (Labor Monthly).1l When the resignations
were not forthcoming, BABA announced on 14 June 1946 that all
were discharged.
This action imnediately was challenged by the dischargees
who insisted they bo pernitted to continue in their positions
until President BABA took the natter to the management council
(of which most of the dischargees were members) and secured
the council's approval of the dismissels.12
It nust be noted that full particulars of the original
agreement between the Yomiuri Union and SHORIkI et al, never
have been publicly stated. Regarding the functions of the
managenent council especially, the two factions of the BABA-
SUZUKI dispute held divergont opinions. The SUZUKI faction
held that the agreement, ond subsequent practise, prescribed
9. BABA and the Chief, Press and Publications Unit, Civil
Information and Education Section, General Headquarters,
Supreme Comnander for the Allied Powers, brth suggested
that SUZUKI possibly might obviate the difficulties by
devoting hinself to writing a. signed colurn, where his
naterial would not be presented as representing the Yomi
uri, but this SUZUKI declined to dc, BABA said in an
interview.
10. Not to be confused vith Yoshio SHIGA, editor of Akahata.
11. Conference: Sudo KhNDA, Goneral Affairs Office, in the
Yoniuri offices.
12. Conference: Hidetoshi SHIBATA.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
8
THE YOMIURI NEWSPAPER
that eny discharge action be cleared with the council. BABA
and his supporters contended that by the agreement BABA reteined
complete authority to hire or fire, when he chose to exercise
1t.13
A violent incidont occurred on 21 June 1946, when the sUZUkI
party was prevented by Yomiuri employees fron entering the build-
ing. With about 100 sympathizers, SUzUKI assailed the main en-
trance; in the ensuing scuffle the police were sumnoned, and 60
of the suzukI partisans were arrested for disturbing the peace.14
It was charged that some employees in the building pointed out
persons, some of whon were not taking part in the violence, to
the police, as conspirators in the disturbance,15 All but four
of those arrested were released the same day.16 On the 23rd the
Tokyc City Labor Relations Conrittec began an investigation of
the dispute.
Three days later the Chief of Press and Publications Unit,
Civil Infornation and Education Section, General Headquarters,
Suprene Commonder fcr the Allied Powers, in a speech to the
firn's employees, clearly defined (1) the nature of cditorial
responsibility, and (2) the neture of varicus pressure groups.
He pointed out that to neintain the editorial dctachment neces-
sary to accurate end impartial nevs coverage, responsibility must
rest with qualified executives chosen by the ovners and directors
of the publishing firm for their exreriencc, integrity, and open-
mindedness. The firm's responsibility in furnishing accurato
news to the public also was clarificd, as was the function of a
trade union as understood in the newspener industry in England
and the United States.17
13. 4 staterent in suprort of this contention was published by
the "Yomiuri Employees' Reforn Committce" on 12 June 1946
purportedly quoting articles of the agreerent which spe-
cifically gave BABA this cuthority.
14. Conference: Furitarc WATANLBE
15. Conference: Fide YOSHIIURA, leader of the Central Conmittee
of the All Japan Cennuniccticns, Newspaper and Radio
Vorkers' Union at the time of the Yoniuri strike; 12 Jan-
uary 1947.
16. Those held were dischargees. Charges of illegel entry sub-
sequently filed against ther vore dropred, end the men
released on 2 July 1946.
17. Chief, Press and Publicctions Unit, Civil Infcrnation and
Education Section, Goneral Headquarters, Suprene Conmander

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
HISTORY
On 29 June 1946, SUZUKI formally appealed to the nation-
al headquarters of the All Japen Communicetions, Newspaper,
and Radio Workers' Union (AJCNRWU),18 on the grounds that he
had been discharged without regard for his rights as a union
nember.19 It is worth observing that Yoriuri employees, as
individuals, were members of the national union, end that
technically SUZUKI's position was chief of the Yomiuri local.
The national unicn hendquarters proved very persistent in sup-
port of SUZUKI et at.20
On 1l July SUZUKI synpathizers declcred a strike in pro-
test against thc management's handling of the discharge matter.
The strikers were successful in interrupting publicetion on
the following day, through threats of 3i print shop employees,
led by Toyoichi KOBAYASHI, to pie the type. Neither on this
occasion nor at eny other time was a motion to strike put to
a vote of the nenbership of the Yomiuri local, as constituted
under SUZUKI.21
A neeting of the local was called for 14 July 1946 by a
Reforn Comrittee consisting of several employees who concurred
with the management. A resolution was passed at this meeting
to adapt the local's policies to the ideas of a najority of
the nembers. In the voting, approxinately 1,300 of the near-
ly 1,8o0 erployees present indicated their desire for a more
definite voice in union decisions than they hed had thereto-
fore.22 Particularly, a majority of the Yomiuri employees
for the Allied Povers, speech given at Yomiuri Hall,
26 June.1946.
18.
Referred to hereafter as the national union.
19.
Conference: Hide YOSHINURA.
20.
A clue to the reason for this can be derived from the
AJCNRWU leadership. Chairmen of the union was Katsumi
KIKUNAMI, an Asahi writer who was active with SUZUKI
and others in fornation of the national union on 9 Feb-
ruary 1946. KIKUNAII was generally considered to be
a Communist syrpathizer, taking prominent parts in the
Conmunist-sponsored "May Day" and "Food May Day" demon-
strations of 1946, although he stated in an interview
that while he sympathized with Comrunist principles,
he had. not becore a party member because he wished to
take a "neutral stend" as union chairman.
21. Conference: Funitaro WATANABE.
22. During SUZUKI's tenure as labor leader, general meetings

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
THE YOMIURI NEWSPAPER
did not concur in what they believed to be the national union's
view of the SUzUKI dispute. The Reforn Committee consisted of
men who felt that President BABA was acting in the best interests
of the firm and the workers, and that the Yomiuri locel member-
ship, if consulted, would show a substantial support of his
action.23
On the 16th the 500 employees in the minority walked out
and set up a strike headquarters in the Kanto Haiden Building,
with SUZUkI as chief spokesman.24 The print shop employees re-
sponsible for suspension of publication were among the 500, and
the management announced that they were discharged for the same
reasons as SUZUKI.25 Publication was resumed on the 17th.
The employees remaining with the company formally declared
secession from the naticnal union on 22 July, and an independent
union was set up with Fumitaro WATANABE as chairman. The publish.
ing company representatives subsequently dealt only with this
union.26
With the above events to clarify the situation, both perties
to the dispute shortly presented statements of their positions
to the Tokyo City Central Labor Comnittee.
The national union contended that:
1. The company had had a hand in the police incident
of 21 June, and that this action was an attempt to suppress the
union.
2. The independent Yoniuri erployees' union should
be regarded as a "company union" because it had attempted to
break the "strike" by a) attempting to have certain employees
arrested, and b) physically excluding national union represent-
atives from Yomiuri executive offices, when the former were
of the employees were held only to elect union officials,
who made all subsequent decisions in the name of the
employees. Many Yomiuri workers felt that the union was
autocratically administered under this system, according
to WATANABE.
23.
Conference: Funitaro WATANABE.
24.
Conference: Fumitaro WATANABE.
25.
Conference: Sudo KANDA.
26.
Conference: Hide YOSHIMURA.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
HISTORY
11
seeking to discuss the dispute.27
The company based its attitude on the contentions that:
1. SUZUKI and five others used the union as a means to
maintain therselves in a position to advance political views,
which moreover were not those of the enployees; usurping
renagement prerogatives in the process.
2. A najority of the enployees voluntarily forned a
new union which the management duly recognized as a bargaining
agent.28
In a decision of 3 August 1946 the Labor Committee held
that "the disnissal of SUZÜkI and the other five executives
was prorpted by unavoidablc circurstances," i.e., was jus-
tified because they had infringed the editorial responsibility
of the nanagenent. As for the 31 other dischargees, however,
the Labor Comnittee found that "it is necessary to investi-
gato whether.... (their discharge) involves an 'unavoidable
reason.'"29 In effect, the Conmittee wanted the management
to prove its contention that the 31 nen had exceeded proper
union cctivities and constituted a threat to the managenent's
editorial resuonsibility. The Cormittee recommonded that
SUZUKI and five othors be considered as having "retired at
their own request...and...be corponsated for the loss in-
curred."30 The compensation was pey for the time between the
discharge (14 June) end the Connittee decision (3 August).
In September the national union headquarters planned an
industry-wide strike, the first purpose being settiement of
the Ycmiuri dispute "along the lines of" the 3 August Labor
Conmitteo decision,31 i.c., to win reinstatement of the second
group of 31 dischargecs. It was thought by some Yoniuri en-
ployces that the activities of the national union in this
connection Were to be integrated with the October Labor Of-
fensive of the Japan Congress of Industrial Organizations,
a national federation of labor unions.32
27.
Conforence: Hidc YOSHIMURA.
28.
Conferencc: Hidetoshi SHIBATA.
29.
Tokyo City Labor Connittec, "Statenent on the Yomiuri
Case," issued on 3 August 1946.
30.
Ibic.
31.
Kycdo release, 25 September 1946.
32.
Conferonce: Funitaro WATANABE. The "Cctober Lebor

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
12
THE YOMIURI NEWSPAPER
The press strike collapsed33 on:5 .October, and on the 8th
the Yoniuri publishers and independent union signed a contract
apparently much more specific on the points of disagreenent be-
tween BLBA and SUZUKI than the previous one had been. (See
Appendix B.) Meanwhile the majority of the employees taking
part in the 16 July walk-cut returned to their jobs, and the 31
dischargees were reinsteted with the understanging that they
would retire irnediately with back pey, as SuzÜkI was considered
to have done in accordance with the Labor Connittee recommen-
dation.34 The Yoniuri union since has rerained outside the
national union.
On 30 August 1947 SHORIKI was released fron prison follow-
ing a decision not to prosecute him as a war crinincl, thus re-
opening the problen of the disposel of his interest in the Yomi-
uri. This problen had been in abeyance during SHORIKI's confine-
ment, but en cerly settlerent was required by the application
of Section 10, Paragraph III, Appendix I to Imperial Ordinance
#1 of 1947 (the purge crdinance), under which SHORIKI was barred
fron further participotion in press activities or connection
with a publishing firm.
A tenative stipulation of the December 1945 agreement pro-
vided that SHORIkI dispose of his holdings in excess of 30 per-
cent of the total Yoriuri stock issued,35 but this plan was drop-
ped with the purge ruling. Instead it was proposed that a new
firn, the Yomiuri Kogyo Kabushiki Keisha (Yoniuri Enterprise
Corporation), be forred to purchase SHoRIkI's interest end hold
the shares for purchase by employees of the newspaper. This pro-
cedure was conterplated by those concerned to prevent dissipation
of the financial control pending accumulation of sufficient cap-
ital by individurl employees to purchase (collectively) a con-
trolling interest.36
Offensive" was part of e campaign by the Japan Congress of
Industrial Orgonizations to overthrow the YOSHIDA Cabinet,
according to a Kyodo news relcase of 24 October 1946.
33. The collapse wes begun by the decision of the Lsahi en-
ployees on 4 October not to strike, according to a Kyodo
news release, 4 0ctcber 1946.
34.
Conferencc: Funitaro WATANABE.
35.
UYEMURA, Tekashiyo: "Denocracy and Journalism," page 74 et
seq., Contenporary Janan, issue of January-April, Tokyo,
1946.
36. Conference: Shinichi KOBAYASHI, 15 Jenuary 1948.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
LEGAL STRUCTURE
13
LEGAL STRUCTURE
No large Japenese newspaper was so dominated by one man
as was Yoniuri under SHORIkI es president end chief stock-
holder. Ownership of Yomiuri stock as of 8 December 1945 1s
shown in the table below.37 All persons listed in the column
for 8 Decenber 1945 have 1eft the firn, but as of 31 December
1947 SHORIKI and TANANAKA had increcsed holdings, while TAKA-
HAsHI had disposed of 3,650 of his 4,550 shares.38
OWNERSHIP OF YOMIURI STOCK IN 1945 AND 1947
Shares held Shares held
Registered Owner of Stock
8 Dec 1945
31 Dec 1947
Matsutaro SHORIKI
36.996
40,650
Shoriki Kosekai*
20,150
20,150
O sanu TANANAKA
9.004
9.100
Yusai TAKAHASHI
4.550
900
16 retired members of the firm
17,800
11 active members of the firm
2.000
Shizuro SHIMIZU (retired staff member)#
5,000
Others
10,300
Total
81,000
95.600
* A corporate person or holding company owned and controlled by
Matsutaro SHORIKI.
# Held in SHI IZU's name for 14 retirec staff members or their
heirs.
The three major stockholders still retain their owner-
ship, but any atterpts on thcir part to influence Yomiuri's
policies make ther liable to prosecution under the purge
ordinance and related regulations.39 Virtually conplete con-
trel of the company consequently rests with President BABA
and the board of directors.
37. Yomiuri Shinbun Sha: "Stetonent of Stock Ownership,"
Tokyo, 31 Decenber 1945.
38. Yomiuri Shimbun Sha: "Statenent of Stock Owmership,"
Tokyo, 31 Decenber 1947.
39.
Yoniuri Editorials, Research Memorandun, IM-213, Civil
Infornation and Education Section, General Head-
quarters, Suprere Cormander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo 22 Septenber 1947.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF THE YOMIURI PUBLISHING COMPANY
President
A, Tsunego
Directors.
KOJIMA, Funio
Chief, Generel Affeirs Bureeu; Director
of Relief for Repatriated Enployees
MUTO, Santoku
Chief, Business Bureau
SHINAGAWA, Kazue
Chairman of Shoriki Koseikai
YASUDA, Shoji
Managing Editor; Political Economy News Editor
YOMOTA, Yoshishige
Chief. Publication Bureau
EDITORIAL COMMITTEE
BUSINESS BUREAU
Administrative Section
Managing Editor
Accounting Section
Advertising Space Sales Section
Editorial Planning Conmittee
Advertising and Promotion
Promotion Committee
GEIERAL AFFAIRS BUREAU
Administrative Section
Editorial Bureau
Account and Supply Section
Administrative Section
Incidental Affairs Section
Board of Survey for Pe-
(nessenger and janitor ser-
patriated Staff
vices, utilities, etc.)
City Desk
Materials Section
"Culture" Desk
Medical Section
Evaluating Unit
Personnel Section
Education Unit (suspended
Welfare Section
October 1947)
Foreign News Desk
PRINTING BUREAU
Local News Desk
Administrative Section
Makeup
Engineering Section
Materials Unit
Job Printing Section
Photographic Unit
Newspaper Printing Section
Political Economy News Desk
Stereotype Section
Proofreading Unit
Type. Founding Section
Public Relations Unit
Sports Desk
PUBLICATION SECTION
Survey Unit
Magazine Editorial Bureau
Yomiuri Weekly
Planning Bureau (suspended
Yomiuri Monthly
October 1947)
Yomiuri Yearbook
Administrative Section
Kodomo Yoniuri (Children's
Special Projects Section
Yomiuri)
Telegraph Section
Publication Business Bureau
Administrative Section
General Affairs Section
Chief Editor, Yomiuri History
14

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
OPERATING ORGANIZATION and FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
15
OPERATING ORGANIZATION
The operating organization outlined on the opposite
page40 is that set in notion by the Enployees' Union at the
tine of the reorganizetion accompanying the ousting of
SHORIKI, although at that time there were nore changes in
personnel than in the structure of the organization. Operation
of the enployec-ranagerent council (the najor change effected
by the reorganization) is described on page 23 and in Appen-
dix B.
The planning bureau is a relatively unusual feature of
Japanese newspaper organization. Its notto might well be,
"If there's no news, we'll rake it." Principal activities
are the large scale pronotion activities for which the largor
Japanese newspapers have been noted. Yoniuri's planning
bureau has not been allocated funds since October 1947, and
while chess and go corpetitions ere still actively cncouraged,
it ray be inferred that with the newspaper's circuletion
closely regulated by paper rotioning, the operation of the
burcau is temporarily unnecessary. The cducation unit of
the editorial bureau, another interesting product of Yoriuri's
operating systen, is scheduled to begin functioning again in
April 1948. The unit per se conprises onc or two journalists
assigned to superviso the apprenticeship of new writers in
the editorial department. Most of the actual training of
the fledgling cditors consists of working in rotation with
more exporienced personnel on the various news desks of the
editorial burcau, with the guidance cf the education unit,
which also arranges programs of instruction by the head of
the unit and other recognized experts.41
FINANCIAL IFFAIRS
Yoniuri has found expenses clirbing steadily since the
surrender. Total disburserents were apprcximately ¥2,373,-
679.39 in Noverber 1945, ¥11,635,127.72 in Noverber 1946,
and ¥40,302,216.82 in November 1947. (Sce Appendix 1). In-
come has nannged to keep pace fairly well through repeated
40. Yoniuri Shinbun Sha: "Outline of the Corperation Or-
ganization," Tokyo, 30 April 1946.
41. Conference: Shinichi KOBAYLSHI.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
16
THE YOMIURI NEWSPAPER
increases in subscription and advertising rates. The amount
of declared profit rerained nearly constant throuch 1946, al-
though the profits represented a progressively sraller per-
centage of the volure of business cach nonth. Septerber,
October, and November of 1947 showed a current loss of ¥2,639-
480.30. This represents a portion of extraordinary disburse-
monts for rehabilitation of the Yoniuri building, which was
completely gutted by firc during the war, with a considerable
loss of equipnent. Using the Hochi building, which was rel-
atively undanaged, until Decerber 1947, thc firr has reoccupied
its restored headquarters and reconstruction costs have been
paid almost conpletely. These expenditures totalled ¥6,239,-
485.49 in September, Octcber, and Neverber 1947, or ¥3,600,-
005.19 more than the recorded loss for the poriod. The neces-
sary cash for this purpose was obtained through two loans
fron the Bank of Japan, totalling V18 nillion, the bank hold-
ing a first rortgage on both the Ycriuri and Hochi buildings.
It thus appears that, relieved of further building expenses,
Yoniuri reasonably ray cxpect to operate at a gross profit
of apprcxinatcly ¥1 rillion renthly, raking fecsible repay-
rent on the loon.42
Operating expenses which hove shown the greatest increase
in the two years frer the end of 1945 to the beginning of 1948
are salaries and raterials. Salary isburscrents in all de-
partments were approxirotely ¥354,563.18 in Neverber 1945,
¥4,456,269 in Noverber 1946, nd ¥11,699,667.35 in Noverber
1947. Materia1s ccst ¥383,454.55 in November 1945, ¥2,297
750 in Noverber 1946, and ¥11,373,261.16 in Noverber 1947.43
Al1 these expenditures heve been ret frer current re-
ceipts, as hove equiprent repcir cnd restoraticn.
PERSONNEL
The editorial character of Yoriuri sincc the discherge
of suzUkI has been in considerable degrce the reflection of
42. Confercnce: Shinichi KOBAYASHI.
43. These figures ore the totals cf ll entries under the
terrs: wages, salaries, bonuses, (er) porsonnel (ex-
penses) for the ronth in question, as listed in Profit
and Loss Staterents, 1945-1947; the 1947 staterent
appoars in Appondix A.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
PERSONIEL
17
the personalities of President BlBA and Shoji YASUDA, nan-
cging cditor. In a long and distinguished crreer, Tsunego
BLBA, uducntcd at Doshisha and Waseda Universities (Kyoto
and Tokyo), Was successively a writer for the Nippon Tines
(Tokye, 1900-1909), chicf cditor of the Oriental Review
(Nev York 1909-1o13), chief cditor of the Nirron Tires
(Tokyo, 1913-1919), spccicl correspcndent of the Kokurin
Shinbun (to ttend the Faris Peace Conference); chief cditor
of the politicrl news desk, ond  directer of Kokurin Shirbun
(Tokyc, 1919-1924). Ho resurcd newspaper work in 1934 es a
colurnist ("Sunday Corr cnt") in the Yoriuri. In 1939, BABA
agein rotired frer: thc rress ficld, to return as president
of the Yoniuri in 1945. BABi's post-war cctivities have in-
cluded, busides the prcsideney of the Yoriuri, n post of
counciilor to the Naticnal Railwey Conferencc and membership
in the Fouse of Pecrs, to which he vas clevated during the
SHIDHHLRA C-binet. A prclific auther n pclitics end recent
history os secn fror. the vontege roint of a leading jour-
nalist, BlBl's werks include rany inportant treatises on the
doveloprent en! vicissitudes cf liberol politics in Japen.44
4. newspoper ron for 28 years, Y4sUDA wes erpleyed by
the Tokyo Tsushin Icws Scrvice (1920-1923), Tokyc Jniyu
Shirbun (1923-1924), Kokurin Shirbun (1924-1927), and Jiji
Shirne (1927-1930). Entering Yoriuri in 1930, YASUDA be-
care ccenoric news cditor in 1935, essistant chief cditer
in 1940, one chicf cditor on the dcparture of SUZUKI in 1946,
also hollin rlliticnal posts as rolitical econory cditor,
nenber of the Yoriuri rerorter cducatirn cornittee, chicf of
the publicetions departrent, nd  directorship.45
Yoriuri recularly crploys between 2, 250 and 2,300 per-
sons, Icss thon helf the staff of, for cxarple, the Aschi.46
of this nurber arproxinstely 1,Oló cre engeged in news
Fothering nd liting; 210 in business functicns; 670 in the
print shop, 225 in clerical work (rossengers, copy boys, etc.),
4. Personal Profilos, Civil Inforration and Education
Section, Generai Herdquarters, Suprene Connander
for the lllied Povers.
45.
Ibid.
46.
The Aschi Shirbun Publishins Ccrnany, RI-162-PP-B-15,
Civil Inforrction and Education Section, General
Headquarters, Suprere Conrander for the Allied Powers,
Toky, 10 y 1946.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
18
THE YO IURI NEWSPLPER
and 69 in publishing (other then the newspaper). The firn's
planning bureau norrally erploys 85 persons to devise and
carry out srecial projects, prorotion ectivities, etc., and
there is alsn a corrent cormittee of 14 to cvalunte the news
cevernge on  day-to-day basis, while 10 exariners daily
verify the accuracy cf news stories. The total nurber of
crployecs averaged 2,288 per ronth during the last quarter
of 1946.47 Wages everaged ¥5,113.49 per person in Noverber
1947.48
Of the stoff of reporters, approxirately 50 cover busi-
ness and politics, 50 city news, three foreifn news (largely
obtained thr ugh news services), thrcc social topics, five
local news, and five public relations. In addition the firn
employs epproxinately 20 photographers.49
EDITORIAL POLICY
Following the surrender, Yoniuri favored a peaceful but
sweeping revolutien in Japenese cconory, governnont, politics,
land ownership, education, industry, and sccial structure.
Yoniuri supported cditorially the Suprere Connander for the
Allied Powers' directive cf 6 Novenber 1945 (SCAPIN 244),
"Dissolution of Holding Companies," to "pernit a wider dis-
tribution of incone and ownership of the rerns of prcduction
and trede." other reforrs herelded and encouraged by the
Yoniuri included the Land Reforn Plan, and the removal from
the educational field not only of militery indcctrinators,
but of incompetents as well.
Ycniuri criticisr: extended to persons who, in the opinion
of the peper, were ective in plotting the war. In e series
of articles, the newspaper led the Tokye press in presenting
renders the truth chout cvents leading to the confiict. Yomi-
uri's "History of the Fall of Japan"50 is factuel end accurate.
47. Yoniuri Shirbun Sha: "List of E plcyees," 15 January 1947.
48. The overage monthly wage is crlculated:
¥11.699,667.35 - totol nonthly payrents to personnel
2,288
- verage nuuiber ef erplyees.
49. Yoniuri Shirbun Sha: "Statenont of Duties of Erplcyees,"
15 January 1947.
50. Translators' end Interproters' Sectien, G-2, op. cit.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
EDITORIAL POLICY
19
The frent page of the 6 December 1945 issue carried detailed
infornation that tho Emperor attended two secret meetings at
least three nonths before 7 December 1941 in which it def-
initely was decided tc carry cut acts of war against the
United States. Prince KONOYE and General NISHIO were quoted
as the paper's source of infornation.51
During the first part of 1946 the accuracy of Yomiuri
reports was less carefully reintained, resulting in the
events described earlier in this report. It has been esteb-
lished clearly that the cims of many ter editors of Ycmiuri
during this period were besically propegandistic.
Since July. 1946 the editors have sought to free the
Japenese reople frem bureaucratic government influence, and
have opposed nost of the Secial-Denccrctic Perty's plans for
sccialization. hile the Yonuri cmplcyees disoffilicted
thenselves fron the onti-YosHIDh Cobinet cerpaign of the
National Congress of Industrial Crganizations in July 1946,
the paper cditorially i pliel that the conscervative Cobinet's
policies end actions were not supported by populer nandate.
Thus on 5 Hovember 1946, Yoniuri scored the Government for
its "present solicitation of popular supnort when 'the
Government hed not listened to (the peoplc) in the past."52
But when the paper egcin raised this point (by suggest-
ing "dissclutien of the Diet to clect a Governrent of the
pecple and the verkers")53 on 18 Decerber 1946, the article
also cxpresso? a desire for the Socialist Party particularly
to anncunce "concrete policies, "54 presunably for evaluation
51. Yoriuri Hochi Nowsnaper, Civil Intelligence Section,
General Headquarters, Suprere Corrander for the
A1lied Powers, Tokyc, 8 December 1945, unless other-
ise spccified.
52. Press Inalysis, 5 Noverber 1946, Civil Inforration
and Education Section, Generai Headquarters, Suprene
Commender for the Allied Powers, Tokyc.
53. Press Analysis, 18 December 1946, Civil Inforration and
Education Section, Gcneral Hecdquarters, Suprere
Conrander for the Lllied Powers, Tokyo.
54. Press Trenslations, Translators' ena Interproters'
Section, G-2, General Headquarters, Suprere Command-
er for the Allied Powers, Tokyc, 18 Decerber 1946.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
20
THE YOMIURI NEWSPAPER
by the electcrate. As early as December 1946 Ycmiuri ap-
parently felt some doubt concerning the cbjectives of leftist
elements in this party, their recent rise placing right-wing
Socialists in the position of being "driven against their will"
in their opposition to YOSHIDA.55 On 4 January 1947 the
newspaper expressed itself as opposed to the scciclization
of the coal industry.56
During August 1947 Yomiuri criticized the Socialist-
led KATAYAMA Cabinet, which succeeded the YOSHIDA Cabinet
on May 1947, for not having nade greater efforts to alter
the bureaucratic charecter of the Japanese Governnent; and
in September the newspaper becamc critical of the Cabinet's
methods, as well es the sociclization plens of Social-Demo-
crat Party left-wingers.57
After thc first of Jenuary 1948 this criticism was further
developed by two lines of argurent. The first was that a
coalition such as the KATAYAMA Cabinet does not hold a pop-
ular nandatc for the execution of an extrene progrer formulated
by any party to the coalition. The second was that the Cab-
inet's progran until the end of 1947 was essentially fornulated
by the Democratic Party, and that a radical change should
SOURCES OF HES
Yomiuri uses Kyodo, Jiji, Radio Press, and the Inter-
national News Services. The paper generally prints two or
three articles of varying length fron cach of these scurces
55. Press Analysis, Civil Infcrration and Education Section,
General Heedquarters, Supreme Conmander for the Allied
Powers, Tokyo, 4 Decerber 1946.
56. Press Analysis, 4 January 1947, Civil Information end
Education Section, General Headquarters, Suprere Con-
nander for the Allied Powers, Tokyo.
57. Yomiuri Editorials, 1-20 September 1947, Research Men-
orandum, IM-213, Civil Infornation and Education
Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Cormender for
the Allied Powers, Tokyo, 22 September 1947.
58. Press Translations, Translators' end Interpreters'
Section, G-2, General Headquarters, Suprono Connander
for the Allied Powers, Tokyc, 1-15 January 1948.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
SOURCES OF NEWS, DISTRIBUTION and EQUIPIENT
21
in each issue. In spite of this, news services do nct re-
present the same proportion of expenditure with Yomiuri
that they do with Asahi or Mainichi, Japan's two foremost
newspapers.
Yomiuri's staff of reporters is also snaller then the
staff of either of the other two nenbers of Japan's news-
paper "big three," although Yoniuri places heevier reliance
on its reporting staff than do the other two.59
DISTRIBUTION
Distributicn of Yoniuri's daily circulation of approx-
imately 1,700,000 copies, ccmprising five complete ncrning
editions, is effected by the Nippon Shimbun Hambai Kuniai
Rengckai (Allied Japanese Cooperative Newspaper Distributors'
Association) thrcughout 41 of the 46 prefectures of Japan.
This distributing organization handles the 75 largest daily
papers in the ccuntry.60 Outside of approxinately 617,000
copies of Yomiuri sold in the Tokyc-Yckohama area, distri-
bution favors the northern end of Honshu island (see chart
on page 22), being notably thin in the Kyoto-Osaka region
(strcnghold of both the Asahi and Mainichi). Approximately
49 percent of Yomiuri circulation is in rural areas.61
EQUIPMENT
Yomiuri, by current standerds, is excellently equipped
to handle a much larger editicn than it presently has paper
to print. The plant is able to print a very large nurber of
copies of the two-page paper, and casily could furnish its
present circulation with a ló-page paper. The firr derives
59. Conference; Sudo KANDA.
60.
Nippon Shimbun Hanbai Kumiai Rengokai, nineographed
Special Report, AR-254-IM-84-PP-B-24, Civil Informa-
tion end Education Section, General Headquarters,
Suprene Conmender for the Allied Powers, Tokyo, 15
November 1946.
61. Rural-Urban Circulation of Principal Dailies in Japan,
unpublished report, Civil Information and Education
Section, General Headquarters, Suprere Cermander for
the Allied Powers, Tokyo, 22 Decenber 1947.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.94)
CIRCULATION OF YOMIURI
SHIMBUN
1 September 1947
SUBSCRIPTIONS PER IOOO PERSONS
Legend
Nane
1-10
11-20
HOKKAIDO
21-30
31-40
41-50
51-60
Over 60
SHIMANE
TOTTOR
ISNIKANA
OrTA
ancoous
EHIME
SHASA
61FU
PERCENT OF TOTAL CIRCULATION
IN EACH PREFECTURE
Legend
Under 1
1-5
HOKKAIDO
6-10
11-15
16-20
21-25
26-30
Sumeent
TOTTORI
DITA
OKAYANA
GIFU
22

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
THE NE SPAFER EI PLOYEES' UNION
23
sore revenue from this press capacity by printing other
newspapers and by doing work on a jobbing basis. ! uch of
Yomiuri's equipment has been rebuilt recently, as appears
below.
Re-
Out of
Machines
New
old
Total
built
Order
High-Speed Cylinder Presses
1
4
532
10
Automatic Printing Cylinder Finishers
1
4
Mat Rolling Machines
2
4
Page Proof Presses
4
4
一
Stereotype Casting Machines
3
3
Stereotype Plate Finishers
2
1
3
Autonatic Type Founding Kachines
22
1
23
Low Pressure Mat Drying Machines
3
1
4
Paper Cutters
2
2
Flat Presses
2
2
一
THE IE SFAPER EPLOYEES: UNION
The Yomiuri Employees' Union, vhich took over operation
of the newspaper from the owner, SHORIKI, set up a menage-
ment council as already described. This body had a large
part in the renagement of the firm until SUZUkI was dis-
charged. The matter "as reopened when Yomiuri employees
formed their independent union; and in the contract nego-
tiated with the company, the scope of the council's prerog-
atives is specifically defined, thus clarifying both the
particular and implied authority of the executive managerent.
(See Appendix B). Poth the company and the union are bound
to abide by the decisicns of the council, and the matters,
which recuire & decision of the council ere stipulated.
In addition to rage and hour regulations, & closed
shop, and other regular objectives of collective bargaining,
the contract specifically provides that 1) persons holding
certain executive posts, and such others as may be specified
62. Yomiuri Shinbun Sha: "List of Equiprent," 10 January 1948.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
24
THE YOMIURI NEWSPAPER
by errangerent between the menegement end the union, may be
exempt from the recuirement of union membership (under SUZUKI
all personnel except the president and directors "ere union
members); end 2) the firm be strictly forbidden any attempt to
influence an enployee's political effilistion.
Three union elections had been held by the end of 1947.
The first elected Tomin SUZUKI, et. el. The second resulted
from SUZUKI's discharge, and appointed Takeo MIURA interim
chairman. The third vas to elect officers of the independent
Yomiuri Enployees' Union on withdrawal from the AJNRCWU, et
Which time Fumitaro WATANABE, leader of the Reform Committee,
was elected chairman, and two vice-cheirren and a stending
executive conmittee of 15 merbers were selected.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX A
BALANCE SHEET FOR 1946, AND PROFIT
AND LOSS STATEMENTS FOR THE LAST QUARTER OF 1947
Balance Sheet as of 30 April 1946
Assets
Land and Buildings
￥2,022,410.37
Machines and Furniture
2,849,827.00
Goodwill
800,000.00
Investments
649,250.00
Bonds
448,581.66
Accounts Receivable
4,856,427.36
Materials
582,466.30
Short Term Paper
1,103,420.00
Bank Deposits and Cash
6,229,282.01
Employee Deposits
22,147.70
Retirement Fund Employee Contributions
63,151.43
Bonds Received as Security
12,455.00
Advance Payment
4,683,002.04
Publication License Deposit
74.867.36
TOTAL
￥24,397,288.23
Liabilities
Capital
¥8,100,000.00
Legal Regerve
300,000.00
Special Deposit
650,000.00
Energency Fund
350,000.00
Retirement Allowance Fund
230,000.00
Tax Account
230,000.00
Long Term Account
1,399.13
Accounts Payable
3,771,894.52
Employee Deposits
22,147.70
Retirement Fund Employee Contributions
63,151.43
Pending Account
9,428,521.28
Distributors Deposit (Bond with Company)
99,192.11
Account brought forward
261,876.89
Profit in Present Period
889.105.17
TOTAL
￥24,397,288.23
25

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
26
THE YOMIURI NEWSPAPER
PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT, SEPTEMBER THROUGH NOVEMBER 1947
Income
September 1947
October 1947
November 1947
Subscription
¥14,920,424.70
¥25,552,950.50
¥25,553,034.50
Advertising
5,975,794.29
7,508,309.16
10,357,841.84
Job Printing
2,579,120.07
3,255,789.43
3,584,361.50
Miscellaneous
254,658.86
194.516.92
413,955.21
TOTAL
23,729,997.92
36,511,566.01
39,909,193.05
Epenses
Administration Dept.
Salaries and Wages
978,942.67
1,423,050.00
1,386,550.00
Incidentals
99,120.68
136,820.14
206,520.07
SUBTOTAL
1,073,063.35
1,559,870.14
1,593,070.07
Business Department
Salaries and Wages
903,991ç68
1,445,288.00
1,347,608.00
Delivery Expenses
688,101.64
569,875.54
651,321.66
"Kyohan" Distribu-
tors' Commission
556,090.51
839,375.77
677,584.16
Commission on Ad-
vertisements
1,152,409.69
1,472,925.69
1,976,552.80
Incidentals
614,219.67
692,927.01
985,575.51
SUBTOTAL
3,914,813.19
5,020,392.01
5,638,642.13
Editorial Room
Salaries and Wages
3,673,870.78
5,353,759.00
5,255,912.00
News Services
721,042.00
753,570.80
933,252.75
Telegrams, Telephones
49,710.10
321,149.01
149,103.38
Communication (Local
Branches)
473,526.23
1,311,846.02
1,275,667.29
Special Articles
38,695.00
67,210.00
29,650.00
Go, Shogi
19,880.00
66,300.00
84,530.00
Incidentals
647,052.07
741,276.90
1.149,658.40
SUBTOTAL
5,623,776.18
8,615,111.43
8,877,873.82
Planning Department
Salaries and Wages
213,947.50
265,798.00
Project Budget
301,572.73
138,433.05
Mechanical Reports
178,342.05
179,878.00
Incidentals
26,694.25
56,247.12
SUBTOTAL
圣
720,556.53
至
640,356.17

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX A
27
Publication Department
Salaries and Wages
圣
287,215.50
圣
445,016.00
圣
432,462.00
Material
550,086.68
665,663.44
1,710,109.29
Articles
124,605.00
198,880.50
164,294.00
Incidentals
111.808.13
185,958.13
210,128.09
SUBTOTAL
1,073,715.31
1,495,518.07
2,516,993.38
Work Shop
Salaries and Wages
2,447,225.11
3,539,486.20
3,277,135.35
Machine Maintenance
1,466,419.73
2,296,919.39
2,987,292.68
Incidentals
118,902.06
97.948.54
76,837.06
SUBTOTAL
4,032,546.90
5,934,354.13
6,341,265.09
General Epenses
Paper
4,116,910.51
8,167,135.35
8,098,842.67
Cars
272,431.96
447,852.07
408,371.37
Material in Storage
248,905.20
510,514.40
1,564,309.20
Repairs
101,014.00
481,325.03
421,397.01
Reconstruction
2,207,459.16
2,013,845.83
2,018,180.50
Lights and Heat
51,133.20
18,646.40
43,790.50
Welfare
425,427.48
588,439.83
551,384.80
Retirement Allowance
146,967.00
85,013.00
146,443.75
Liscellaneous
566,553.37
729,273.26
631,652.53
Reserve Fund
800.000.00
800,000.00
SUBTOTAL
8,136,801.88
13,842,145.17
14,584,372.32
Security Fund
150,000.00
650,000.00
650,000.00
GRAND TOTAL
¥24,730,273.34
¥37,757,747.12
¥40,302,216.81
LOSS
￥1,000,275.42
¥1,245,818.11
圣
393,023.76

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX B
EMPLOYEE LABOR CONTRACT, OCTOBER 1946
Yomiuri Snimoun (mentioned hereinafter as "company") has entered
into the following contract with the Yomiwi Employees! Union (men-
tioned hereinafter as "union"), according to Article XIx of the Labor
Union Law.
I.
The company shall recognize only this labor union.
II.
Yomiui employees shall be members of this union, but the
editor-in-chief, chiefs of company bureaus, and others who are
indicated by mutual agreement between the company and the union,
may be exceptions.
III.
The compary shall consult the union through the Management
Council, about personnel matters affecting union members. The
particulars are provided for separately.1
IV.
The company shall be expected to stabilize the living of union
members by furnishing them salaries based on living costs and
by utilizing welfare facilities.
v.
The company shall consult the union on salary raises, allow-
ances, and other pay matters.
VI.
The company shall consult the union about employee relations
matters, hiring methods, and performances of the cmployees.
VII.
Woriing hours and holidays are fixed as follows!
A. Seven worling hours a day.
B. Thirty paid holidays annually, in addition to Sundays.
C. Two paid holidays per month for women for physical reasons.
D. Leave of absence of l00 days for childbirth.
VIII.
The company shall not discriminate against any member of the
union for participation in union activities.
1. See below.
28

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
APPENDIX B
29
IX.
The company shall permit affiliation of the members with polit-
ical parties or participation of the members in political activ-
ities, but in this instance, members shall be careful that such
participation ddes not interfere with the execution of their
duties or do violence to the editorial policy of the company.
x.
The company shall establish the Management Council to consult
the union about labor conditions and other problems. The
Half the members of the Council shall be representatives of
the union. The present contract shell be valid for a year,
but it may be chonged through an understanding of both parties
during the term. When neither party expresses an intent to
revise or cancel the contrect, the contract shall automat-
ically remain in effect for one more year. Three copies of
the present contract are prepared, of which one shali be kept
by the company, one by the union, and the remaining one shall
be suonitted to the govermment office concerned.
PARTICULARS FOR ARTICLE III OF LABOR CONTRACT
I.
The conpany shall not invade unlawfully the privileges of the
members of the union even in the exercise of its (the compa-
ny's) publishing rights; and in personnel affairs of impor-
tance, the company, through the Management Council, shall ask
an expression of the union.
II.
Concerning the hiring and discharge of union menbers, the con-
pany, through the Management Council, shall ask for approval,
and through the Managenent Council, shall consult with the
wrion about transfers, punishment, and rewards of union men-
bers; but concerning matters of less inportance, the proceed-
ings stated above may be onitted by mutual agreement between
the company and the union.
BY-LAWS OF THE MANAGEMENT COUICIL
I.
The Management Council is established according to the Labor
contract concluded between the Yomiuri Newspaper Company and
its employees' union.
2. See below.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
30
THE YOMIURI NEWSPAPER
II.
The purpose of the present Management Council is to contribute
to democratic management of the Yomiuri Newspaper Company.
III.
The Management Council shall confer concerning the following:
A. Labor conditions of the employees.
B. Welfare facilities of the employees.
C.
Hiring, discharge, transfer, punishment, and reward, of the
employees, and other personnel matters.
D.
Raising of wages, allowances, and other benefits.
E
Principal regulations.
F.
The business policy of the company and other policies which
help achieve the aims stated above.
IV.
Both the company and the union shall be obliged to carry into
execution decisions of the present Council.
V.
The Management Council consists of 12 members, six represent-
ing the company and six representing the union. wnen a vacancy
occurs, it shall be filled immediately, the appointee to serve
the remaining term of his predecessor.
VI.
The term of office of the committee of the present Management
Council shall be six months, and reappointment is permitted.
VII.
The Management Council shall choose two managers, one from the
company and the other from the union, who shall perform business
and executive secretarial services for the Council.
VIII.
The present Management Council, as occasion arises, may. estab-
lish special committees as advisory organs.
IX.
The present Management Council shall meet at a fixed time
every month. Every member of the Council shall be notified
of the agenda in advance. The present Management Council may
be called in extra session on demand by either the company or
the union.
x.
The proceedings of the present Management Council shall be put
on record and published as far as circumstances permit. Other
wise the members shall preserve the secrecy of the proceedings.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
SOURCES
Bibliography
Civil Information and Education Section, General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers
Asahi Shimbun Publishing Company, Special Report,
AR-162-PP-B-15, 10 May 1946
Mainichi Shimbun Publishing Company, Report No. 1, unpublished
report, 15 January 1946.
Nippon Shimbun Hambai Kumiai Rengokai, Special Report,
AR-254-D-88-PP-B-24, 15 November 1946.
Personal Profiles
Press Analyses, 5 November, 4 and 18 December, 1946;
4 January 1947.
Rural-Urban Oirculation of Principal Dailies in Japan, unpub-
lished report, 22 December 1947.
Some Aspects of Labor Organization in the Press and Radio in
Postwar Japan, Special Report, AR-292-DM-99-PP-E-24,
23 September 1947.
Yomiuri Editorials, Research Memorandum, 22 September 1947.
Civil Intelligence Section, G-2, General Headquarters, Supreme Com-
mander for the Allied Powers, Yomiuri-Hochi Newspaper, Special
Report, 8 December 1945.
Kyodo News Service, news releases, 25 September end 4 October, 1946.
Tolyo City Labor Committee, "Statement on the Yomiuri Dispute,"
3 August 1946.
Translators' and Interpreters' Section, G-2, General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, Press Translations,
vols. I-IV, and 18 December 1947; I to Xv, January 1948.
UE:URA, Takashiyo, "Democracy end Journalism," Contemporary Japan,
Tokyo, issue of January-April 1946.
31

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
32
THE YOMTURI NEWSPAPER
Yomiuri Employees! Union, Reform Committee, "On the Relation Between
the Discharges of SuzukI et al and the Management Council,"
12 June 1946.
Yomiuri Shimbun Sha
"Last of Employees," 15 January 1947.
"Last of Equipment,n 10 January 1948.
"Outline of the Corporation Organization, " 30 April 1946.
"Statement of Duties of Employees, " 15 January 1947.
"Statement of Profit and Loss," last quarters 1945-6-7.
"Statement of Stock Owmership," 31 December 1945 and 1947.
Conferences
BABA, Tsunego, president, Yomiuri Shimbun Sha, Yomiuri offices, 15, 18,
and 26 Apri1, 3 and 12 June, 1946.
KANDA, Sudo, General Affairs Office, Yomiuri Shimbun Sha, Yomiuri of-
fices, 15, 18, and 26 April, 3 and 12 June, 1946; 3 January 1947.
KOBAYASHI, Shinichi, Business Bureau, Yomiuri Shinbun Sha, Yomiuri
offices, 15 January 1948.
SHIBATA, Hidetoshi, secretery to President BABA, Yomiuri offices,
12 January 1947.
WaTANABE, Fumitaro, editorial writer, leader of the Yomiuri Eaployees!
Union, Yomiuri offices, 10 January 1947.
YOSHMMURA, Hide, member of the Japen Communications, Newspaper, end
Radio Workers' Union Central Committee, former leader of the
Committee (at the tine of the Yomiuri dispute), Mainichi Kaikan,
12 January 1947.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
016
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Zic
Tokyo, May 25, 1948
No. 301
UNCLASSIFIED
894.911/5-2548
SUBJECT: Rural-Urban Circulation of Principal Dailies in Japan.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose two
copies of a special report prepared by the Analysis and Research
Division of the Civil Information and Education Seotion of this
Headquarters, entitled, "Rural-Urgan Circulation of Principal
Dailies 1n Jepan", No. AR-310-IM-102-PP-B-28 dated May 5, 1948.
01E
1cy taiten
DIC OCOUPIED AREAS DIVISION
No additional copies are available.
(ADO)
aG
FE
31948
0
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
OCD
Enclosures:
8No astoni
2 copies of special report
DCK
entitled "Rural-Urban Circula-
tion of Principal Dailies in
CS/A
Japan, No. AR-310-IM-102-PP-B-28,
dated May 5, 1948.
Original and ozalid to Department
842
JDEdwards: emn
11948
FILED
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME CORMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
RURAL-URBAN
C I R C U L A T I O N
O F P R I N C I P A L D A I L I E S
I N J A P A N
Special Report Prepared by
Information Media Branch
Research Unit
AR-310-IM-102-PP-B-28
5 May 1948

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
SPECIAL REPORT
SERIAL NUMBER
AR-310-IM-102-PP-B-28
5 May 1948
TITLE
Rural-Urban Circulation of Principal Dailics
in Japan
SUBJECT
Tho rural and urban circulations (as of
1 Septcmber 1947) of each of 113 important
daily newspepers, members of Nippon Shimbun
Kyokai (Japan Press Association), throughout
Japan, tabulated by prefecture, also indi-
cating urban and rural circulation of all
papers per 1,000 population.
PREPARED BY
Information Media Branch, Research Unit.
DATES OF STUDY
1 Septomber 1947 to 12 December 1947.
CONTENTS
Scope of Study
1
Sources of Data
1
Evaluation of Data
2
Methods
2
Summary
3
Table 1 - Average Number of Newspapers Per
1,O00 Residents in Rura1 and Urban Regions
3
Tabie 2 - Rural and Urban Distribution of
Principal Japenesc Daily Nowspapers
6
Chart 1 - Donsity of Urban and Rural Nowspaper
Subscriptions
4
Chart 2 - Range of Prefectural Densitics of
Urben and Rural Newspaper Subscriptions
5
Chart 3 - Circulation of Principal Japanese
Daily Nowspapers
22
Appendix 1 - li3 Principal Japanese Daily
Newspapcrs Ranked According to Circulation
23
Appendix 2 - Rural and Urban Circulation of
Newspapers, and Area of Distribution
25
Index to Prefectures and Regions in Table 2
28

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
RURAL-URBAN CIRCULATION OF PRINCIPAL DAILIES JN JAPAN
SCOPE
This study includes 113 important deily Japenese-lan-
puege newspepers, which are members of the Nippon Shimbun
Kyokai, and which print an aggregate of epproximstely
17,776,000 copies da1ly. This is over 98% of the totel
circuletion of all deily newspepers of generel news cover-
This report was confined to newspapers belonging to the
Nippon Shimbun Kyokei beceuse it wes felt that tre 17 news-
papers omitted were not of sufficient importance to justify
the edditionel time necessary for their inclusion. Deily
newspepers publishing without a paper allocation ere elso of
negligible importence.
EOURCES OF DATA
The circuletion figures in this report are those re-
ported by the individuel publishers from their circuletion
records of 1 September 194?, trough the centrel offices of
the Nippon Shimbun Kyokei. Tre circuletion figures ere
those. upon which the newspapers' peper ellocstion is besed,
end represent εt leest 90% paid in edvance subscriptjons,
recorded by the Nipon Shimbun Hambai Kumiei Rengokei
1. Newspapers confined to or sneciεlizing in news of one
or & few relstively nerrow subject fields heve been
excluded from consideration in this report.
2. Informetion Media Research lists 130 newspepers of
ceneral coverage receiving official peper allocatione.
Their totel circuletion 1s approximetely 18,264,100
copies deily. Of this totsl the 17 newspepers not
included in Table 2 distribute 347,355 copies deily
or 2% of the total. There εre 21.deily newspepers
of special coverege receiving official peper ello-
cations, not included in the 130 ehove. See Tn-
forration Media Research "Dsily Newspepers in Jepen
Wrich Receive An Of-icial Paper Ration," Feseerch
Memorandum, Anelysis end Reseerch Division, CTE
Section, Tokyo, E September 1947.
-1-

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
(Jepen Allied Newspeper Dealers' Associetion), en independent
organizetion.
The population figures used to compute the circulation-
to-populstion ratios ere shown from the table "Preliminery
Results; Populetion Census of Japen, 1 Octoher 1o47" prepered
by the Resesrch and &tstistics Division, Fconomic snd scientif-
ic Section, (published 25 November 1947  Ecoromic end Scientif-
ic Section, General Headcuerters) from the summery check sheets
of the enumeretion districts in Japen compiled by the Cebinet
Bureev of Ststistics, Imperiel Jepenese Covernment. These ere
unedjusted figures, and differ from the estimeted true figures
by .ó2% on a national basis, eccording to Economic nd Scientif-
ic Section. Since, however, no breekdon of the eggregete
error is feasible, the unadjusted figures are employed.
EVALU/TION OF DATA
The figures from which the date of this renort are compiled
ere the most eccurate obtainable, circulation figures sre l00%
complete for 98% of Jenen's ceily newspeper circulεtion and
census figures ere 99.3e% compl-te for the entire netion. Trey
may thus be considered to afford an indicstion of Jepanese news-
reacing hebits en e comperison of the effectiveness of deily
generel newspepers as irformation mecia in the verious prefect-
ures end reographic regjons of the country. The rurel-urban
breek is brsed on the legel definition employed in the census.
Urben erees ere cefined s the incorporated &rees of cities of
30,000 prsons or over, εnc ε few others (e.g. ε prefectural
capital is usually designted a city regardless of population.
Very few such canitals, however, εre smeller then 30,000
residents in size.) fll other aress and locelities ere in-
cluded in the rural clessificetion.
MTTFODS
Eech responding newspaper submitted & list of copies cis-
tributec by prefecture, subdivided into rurel end urhan groups,
through the Tokyo offices of the Nippon Shimbun yokei.
Table 2 of this report, "Rural-Urban Breakdown of the
Distribution of Principel Jepenese Daily Newspepers," presents
the ∂ete of this study in detail. Tre teble includes the
circuletion of each individual newsneper distributirg over
1,o00 copies in that ares: (those of less ere grouped under
"others"), the prefecturel end percentage totals; end the
number of copies of all newspepers per 1,000 rurel and per
1,ooo urben residents of the prefecture. Nespepers ere
listed alphabetically in esch prefecture, and rrefectures ere
-2-

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
elso listed slphsbeticelly within six geogrephic regions,
similarly errenged in the table.
Comperisons of urben end rurεl rcgionel εverege dis-
tribution densities sre presented in Ta:le 1 end Crert 1.
Chert 2 shows the renge of prefecturel subscriptions per
thousend populetion, from the prefecture with the lowest
density of subscriptions to the prefecture with the highest
density of subscriptions for esch of tre seven geogrepricel
repions, for urben end rursl cormunities seneretely.
The two sppendices should prove useful reference sids.
Appendix 1 lists the 113 newspepers in order of circuletion
size. Appendix 2 is en slprabeticel list of the Jepεnese
nemes of the newspepers with the prefecture or refion of
distribution.
SIMMARY
In generel, the poorer the totel newspaper supply of
 geographical refion, the greater the discrepency between
rurel εnd urban distribution densities. With tre exception
of the Chubu region, however, tre rural supply is consistent-
1y less than haif (εbout 45%) of the urhan, on ε per cεpite
bisis. Generelly elso, the better the over-εll supply of e
re ion, the larper the differences in the supplies of the
incivicual prefectures. This is perticularly noticechle in
Kansei and Lanto wrich enjoy the largest and second lerfest
ur en supplies of the seven regions. The rural cistribution
in Kansei is &lso larrest, but both Chubu and Tohoku (in-
cluding Pokkaido) regions have wider rurel distribution
then the Kanto εree. Southern Japen, (the Crugoku resion,
εnc the islends of Kyushu anc Shiicoku) res the spersest
cistribution of daily newspapers. The Crugoku ropion,
with the largost supply of the three, rec ives en urben
distribution equal to only 72% of tre Kensai urhan supply.
Average regional rural and urban distributions are listed
helow, in order of sizc.
TEble 1. AVTRICE NU BEE OF NEWSPAPTTS PTE 1,OOO
PTSTDEITS TN FITAL PIT IRBAN RUCTOUS
Urben
Rure1
Rcgion
Fumber
Rerion
Number
Kansei
429
Kansei
190
Vento
398
Chubu
178
Tohoku
394
Toroku
173
Crubu
336
Kento
171
Chugoku
311
Chugoku
139
Kyushu
297
Kyushu
136
Shikoku
269
Shikoku
122
-3-

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
CHART 1. DENSITY
OF URBAN & RURAL NEWSPAPER SUBSCRIPTIONS
WITHIN MAJOR GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS
Subscriptions Per 1ooo Persans
Region
100
200
300
400
Urban
Kansai
Ruro
Kanto
Tohoku & Hokkaiao
Chubu
Avg. All Regions
Chugoku
Kyushu
Shikoku
-4-

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
CHART2. RANGE OF PREFECTURAL DENSITIES
OF URBAN & RURAL NEWSPAPER SUBSCRIPTIONS
WITHIN MAJOR GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS
Subscriptions Per 1ooo Persons
100
200
300
400
Region
Kansai
Least Dense
Arg
Most Dense
Runa/
Kanto
Chubu
Tohoku and
Hokkaido
Chugoku
Kyushu
Shikoku
-5-

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 2. RURAL AND URBAN DISTRIBUTION
OF PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS
1 September 1947
Newspaper Circulation
Nevspapers
Rural Subscribers
Urban Subscribers
by
Percent
Percent
Region and Prefecture
Number
of Total
Humber
of Totel
CHUBU REGION
Aichi Prefecture
Asahi Shimbun
44,064
13.5
39,336
7.7
Chubu Keizai
4,794
1.5
10,268
2.0
Chubu Nippon
202,375
62.1
234,689
45.6
Chulkyo Shimbun
15,042
4.6
42,351
8.2
Mainichi Shimbun
26,963
8.9
22,463
4.4
Nagoya Times
9,770
3.0
52,533
10.2
ppon Keizai
1,488
0.5
12,504
2.4
Sangyo Keizai
0
0.0
7,452
1.5
Tokai Mainichi
10,459
3.2
15,224
3.0
Tokai Yukan
0
0.0
4,250
0.8
Yomiuri Shimbun
1,034
0.3
11,537
2.2
Yukan Shin Tokai
7,294
2.2
56.813
11.1
Others
609
0.2
4.875
0.9
Total
325,892
100.0
514,295
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
185
375
XXXX
Furui
Asahi Shimbun
22,247
23.9
ε,725
18.7
Chubu Nippon
10,362
11.1
3,755
8.1
Furui Shimbun
38,194
40.9
24,335
52.3
Mainichi Shimbun
19,345
20.7
5,137
13.2
Sangyo Kei zai
1,334
1.4
1,191
2.5
Others
1,886
2.0
2.403
5.2
Total
93,368
100.0
46,546
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
150
440
XXX
Gifu
Asahi Shimbun
26,182
11.3
10,254
9.8
Chubu Keizai
2,540
1.1
1,464
1.4
Chubu Nippon
102,685
44.3
25,308
24.1
Chulyo Shimbun
6,139
2.6
3,152
3.0
Gifu Times
39,987
17.2
25,885
24.6
Mainichi Shimbun
22,005
9:5
7,120
6.8
IHagoya Times
1,422
0.6
1,191
1.1
Mippon Keizai
1,082
0.5
1,935
1.8
Nohi Shimbun
12,846
5.5
5,864
5.6
Sangyo Kei zai
0
0.0
1,200
1.1
Tokai Mainichi
5,579
2.4
1,960
1.9
Tolai Yulan
10,043
4.3
15,390
14.6
Yuian Shin Tokai
0
0.0
2,941
2.8
Others
1,547
0.7
1.457
1.4
Total
232,062
100.0
105,122
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
196
342
-6

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
Table 2. RURAL AID URBAN DISTRIBUTION OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS - Continued
Newspaper
Circulation
Newspapers
Rural Subscribers
Urban Subscribers
by
Percent
Percent
Region and Prefecture
Number
of Total
Number
of Total
CHUBU REGION - Cont.
Ishikava
Asahi Shimbun
7,481
7.0
8,479
8.2
HoMtoku Mainichi
68,972
64.5
62,896
60.8
Ishikawa Shimbun
18,900
17.7
20,100
19.4
Mainichi Shimbun
7,174
6.7
6,251
6.1
Hippon Keizai
0
0.0
1,379
1.3
Sangyo Keizai
0
0.0
1,596
1.5
Yomiui Shimbun
2,392
2.2
1,154
1.1
Others
2,066
1.9
1,678
1.6
Total
106,935
100.0
103,543
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
180
311
xox
Mie
Asahi Shinbun
46,183
27.6
27,549
22.3
Chubu Keizai
1,383
0.8
2,251
1.8
Chubu Hippon
42,411
25.4
37,043
30.1
Chulyo Shimbun
3,317
2.3
4,493
3.6
Ise Shimbun
23,521
14.1
19,433
15.8
Meinichi Shimbun
34,424
20.6
2,000
1.6
Magoya Tines
0
0.0
2,853
2.3
Sangyo Keizai
0
0.0
1,590
1.5
Tokai Mainichi
4,993
3.0
1,755
1.4
Yulten Mie
8,647
5.2
20,290
16.5
Yutan Shin Tokai
0
0.0
2,954
2.4
Others
1,687
1.0
824
0.7
Total
167,066
100.0
123,340
100.0
Per, 1,000 Residents
169
236
XX
Shizuoke
Asahi
Shimbun
48,581
17.3
37,361
13.1
Chubu Keizai
1,610
0.6
1,320
0.7
Chubu Nippon
47,562
17.4
10,400
5.8
Chulkyo Shinbun
2,454
0.9
1,908
1.0
Jiji Shinpo
4,479
1.6
5,335
3.6
Maini chi Shimbun
57,698
21.1
37,006
20.6
Hippon Keizai
8,473
3.1
6,929
5.0
Selai Hippo
0
0.0
2,400
1.3
Sizuoka Shimbun
39,484
14.5
43,168
24.1
Tokai Mainichi
2,863
1.0
1,333
0.7
Yomi ui Shinbun
59,960
21.9
31,955
17.8
Others
274
0.1
2.400
1.3
Total
273,438
100.0
179,473
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
162
272
-7-

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
Table 2. RURAL AID URBAN DISTRIBUTION OF
PRI ICIPAL JAPANESE DAILY HEWSPAPERS - Continued
Newspaper Circulation
Newspapers
Rural Subscribers
Urban Subscribers
by
Percent
Pcrcent
Region and Prefecture
Number
of Total
Humber
of Total
CHUBU REGION - Cont.
Toyama
Asahi Shimbun
11,530
8.0
4,520
4.7
Chubu Mippon
2,088
1.4
1,327
1.4
Hokuriku Yukan
12,193
8.4
21,007
21.8
Kita Iippon
64,019
44.2
30,135
31.3
Maihichi Shimbun
9,682
6.7
6,275
6.5
Fippon Keizai
2,425
1.7
1,602
1.6
Sangyo Keizai
1,256
0.9
2,180
2.3
Toyama Shimbun
30,128
20.8
23,730
24.6
Yomiuri Shimbun
10,603
7.3
4,131
4.3
Others
793
0.6
1,440
1.5
Total
144,717
100.0
96,347
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
205
xxx
355
00
CHUGOKU REGION
Hiroshima
Asahi Shimbun
46,781
29.2
40,413
18.5
Chugolu Shimbun
85,633
53.4
96,087
44.0
Godo Shimbun
0
0.0
2,611
1.2
Kogyo Shimbun
0
0.0
1,562
0.7
Mainichi Shimbun
14,911
9.3
36,307
16.6
Hippon Keizai
1,636
1.0
1,046
0.5
Sangyo Keizai
2,925
1.8
5,070
2.3
Sanyo Choho
0
0.0
1,660
0.8
Yomiuri Shimbun
1,403
0.9
2,322
1.1
Yulan Hiroshima
4,566
2.8
28,571
13.1
Others
2,535
1.6
2,595
1.2
Total
160,390
100.0
218,244
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
112
XXXX
378
Okayama
Asahi Shimbun
40,736
17.9
17,247
18.3
Godo Shimbun
117,369
51.7
31,197
33.0
Mainichi Shimbun
36,192
15.9
16,740
17.7
Sangyo Keizai
4,093
1.8
2,030
2.2
Sanyo Choho
17,028
7.5
7,964
8.4
Yultan Okayama
10,803
4.8
17,047
18.0
Others
1,024
0.4
2,281
2.4
Total
227,245
100.0
94,506
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
170
2000
336
0x
Shimane
Asahi Shimbun
31,723
36.0
8,373
26.3
Chugolu Shimbun
1,091
1.2
0
0.0
Mainichi Shimbun
11,151
12.6
10,869
34.1
-8

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.96)
Table 2. RURAL AID URBA DISTRIBUTIOL OF
PRINCIPAL JAPAIESE DAILY ENSPAPERS - Continued
Hewspaper Circulation
Tevspapers
Rural Subscribers
Urban Subscribers
by
Porcent
Percent
Re ion and Prefecture
Rumber
of Total
unber
of Total
CHUGOKU REGION - Cont.
Chimane - Continued
i shi Hippon
1,492
1.7
0
0.0
Sanin Michinichi
8,036
9.1
2,371
7.4
Shimane Shimbun
33,883
38.4
7,984
25.0
Others
536
1.0
2.96
7.2
Total
88,212
100.0
31,093
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
118
219
XY
Tottori
isali Shimbun
19,377
28.7
7,192
20.2
Hainichi Shimbun
16,257
24.0
7,683
21.6
ippon Kai
18,719
27.7
12,150
34.1
langyo Keizai
844
1.2
0
0.0
Sonin ichinichi
11,935
17.7
6,142
17.2
Others
507
0.7
2.478
6.9
Cotal
67,639
100.0
35,52.5
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
143
315
Yameguchi
sai Shinbun
41,429
37.2
69,112
34.3
Docho himbun
15,614
14.0
31,74
15.7
Chugolu Shimbun
6,948
6.2
ε,659
4.3
yushu Tines
0
0.0
7,401
3.7
cinichi Shimbun
39,324
35.
65,952
32.7
Tishi Hippon
5,859
5.3
5,120
2.5
hin yushu
0
0.0
6,400
4.2
Yuan Fulunichi
0
0.0
1,000
0.9
Yultn Firoshima
0
0.0
1,150
0.6
Ot:ers
2,104
1.9
2.058
1.1
Total
171
278
100.0
201,71
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
153
260
MLYSAI REGION
700
isahi Shimbun
110,260
39.9
121,149
25.9
Dai Ichi
0
0.0
6,000
0.4
Tobe Shimbun
78,891
28.5
74,653
15.9
Hairichi Shimbun
45,668
16.5
103,051
22.0
:iyako Shimbun
0
0.0
3,000
0.6
ippon Keizai
0
0.0
1,434
0.3
Caclke
T44
4,540
7.6
0,363
1.8
Osaka Michinichi
3,000
7.1
10,700
2.7
Osaka Shimbun
1,532
0.6
37,333
8.0
Osaka Times
0
0.0
5,000
1.1
Sengro Meizai
3,647
1.3
10,511
?.2
-2

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 2. RURAL AID URBAN DISTRIBUTION OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS - Continued
Newspaper Circulation
llewspapers
Rural Subscribers
Urban Subscribers
by
Percent
Percent
Region and Prefecture
Number
of Total
Number
of Total
KANSAI REGION - Cont.
Hyogo - Continued
Shinko Ywtan
23,505
8.5
52,007
21.1
Shin Hippon
1,400
0.5
19,200
4.1
Shin Osaka
1,562
0.5
12,570
2.7
Yomiuri Shimbun
0
0.0
3,751
0.3
Others
2,336
0.9
1.895
0.4
Total
276,391
100.0
468,617
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
163
345
Kyoto
Asahi Shimbun
42,213
34.9
105,762
19.6
Dai Ichi
0
0.0
1,000
0.2
Kyoto Fichini chi
2,851
2.4
64,940
22.0
Evoto Shimbun
25,253
20.9
104,306
19.4
Mainichi Shimbun
42,938
35.5
89,447
1ó.6
Miyako Shimbun
1,720
1.4
53,900
10.0
Kippon Keizai
0
0.0
1,350
0.3
Osaka Jiji
0
0.0
1,815
0.3
Osaka Michinichi
0
0.0
1,600
0.3
Osaka Shimbun
0
0.0
4,456
0.8
Sangyo Keizai
1,102
0.9
5,347
1.0
Shiga Shimbun
0
0.0
5,220
1.0
Shin Tippon
2,100
1.7
27,900
5.2
Shin Osaka
0
0.0
8,327
1.5
Yomiuri Shimbun
0
0.0
2,177
0.4
Yuitan Kyoto
1,385
1.1
60,370
11.2
Others
1.453
1.2
1,280
0.2
Total
121,015
100.0
539,197
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
199
XX
477
JCD:
Nara
Asahi Shimbun
49,505
37.3
7,567
19.9
Kyoto Michinichi
0
0.0
1,400
3.7
LMaini chi Shimbun
50,380
37.9
7,255
19.1
Nara Maini chi
8,816
6.6
7,800
20.5
Osaka Ji ji
5,435
4.1
0
0.0
Osate Fichinichi
0
0.0
1,300
3.4
Osaka Shimbun
1,106
0.ε
0
0.0
Shin Jäppon
0
0.0
2,000
5.2
Sangyo Kei zai
2,955
2.2
0
0.0
Yamato Tines
12,927
9.7
5,892
15.5
Others
1,885
1.4
4.819
12.7
Total
133,009
100.0
36,033
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
191
462
-10-

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.97)
Table 2. RURAL AND URBAN DISTRIBUTION OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS - Continued
llewspaper Circulation
Hevspapers.
Rural Subscribers
Urban Subscribers
by
Percent
Percent
Region and Prefecture
Humber
of Total
Number
of Total
KANSAI REGION - Cont.
Osaka
Asahi Shimbun
87,222
35.3
284,900
25.4
Dai Ichi
0
0.0
2,000
0.2
Kogyo Shimbun
0
0.0
5,300
0.5
Kyoto Hchinichi
0
0.0
3,700
0.3
yoto Shimbun
0
0.0
1,200
0.1
Mainichi Shimbun
82,361
33.3
251,605
22.5
Miyako Shimbun
0
0.0
15,300
1.4
Hippon Keizai
0
0.0
6,986
0.6
Osaia Jiji
12,520
5.0
43,919
3.9
Osaka Michinichi
27,500
21.1
64,400
5.7
Oscita Shimbun
24,160
9.8
236,685
21.3
Osaka Times
0
0.0
22,500
2.0
Sangyo Keizai
4,451
1.8
42,173
3.8
Shinano Michinichi
0
0.0
1,000
0.1
Shin Hippon
3,400
1.4
36,100
3.2
Shin Osaka
4,150
1.7
80,450
7.2
Tolgo Shimbun
O
0.0
6,020
0.5
Yomiuri Shimbun
O
0.0
10,020
0.9
Others
1,558
0.6
4.133
0.4
Total
247,322
100.0
1,120,471
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
258
472
Shica
Aschi Shimbun
40,036
31.4
14,747
28.4
Chubu Hippon
16,920
13.3
3,951
7.6
Kyoto Fichinichi
0
0.0
1,100
2.1
Kyoto Shimbun
4,191
3.3
3,004
5.ε
Mainichi Shimbun
39,751
31.2
14,664
28.2
Osaka Jiji
2,806
2.2
0
0.0
Sangyo Keizai
1,070
0.8
1,045
2.0
Shiga Shimbun
15,852
12.4
7,835
15.1
Shin Hippon
2,300
1.8
0
0.0
Tokai Mainichi
1,005
0.8
0
0.0
Yulan Kyoto
0
0.0
1,200
2.3
Others
3.623
2.8
4.444
8.5
Total
107,554
100.0
51,990
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
18ó
XX
299
Wakeyama
Asahi Shimbun
42,692
40.1
28,283
29.5
Mainichi Shinbun
39,276
36.9
30,C10
3?.2
Osaia Ji ji
8,768
3.2
3,837
4.1
Sangyo Kei zai
1,977
1.9
2,394
25
-17-

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
Table 2. RURAL AND URBAN DISTRIBUTION OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS - Continued
Newspaper
Circulation
Tewspapers
Rural
Subscribers
Urban Subscribers
by
Percent
Percent
Reion end Prefecture
Number
of Total
Iumber
of Total
KANGAI REGION - Cont.
Waltayana - Continued
Walayama Shiubun
13,575
12.8
29,250
30.5
Others
66
0.1
1,131
1.2
Total
106,354
100.0
95,755
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
155
350
KAITO REOL ON
Chiba
Asahi Shimbun
72,819
22.3
23,921
17.4
Chiba Shimbun
20,660
6.3
11,432
8.3
Dai Ichi
4,300
1.3
0
0.0
Jiji shimpo
7,285
2.2
9,848
7.1
Moinichi Chimbun
106,517
32.6
29,747
21.6
ippon Keizai
14,988
4.6
4,980
3.6
Sekai Hippo
0
0.0
2,564
1.9
Shin Fochi
0
0.0
1,000
0.7
Shin Yultan
0
0.0
5,200
3.8
Tokyo Shimbun
8,592
2.6
12,225
6.9
Tokyo Tines
0
0.0
2,700
2.0
Yomiuri Chimbun
88,973
27.3
31,375
27.8
Yultan Miyako
0
0.0
1,500
1.1
Others
2,577
0.8
1,155
0.8
Total
326,645
100.0
137,547
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
20?
2000
200
Gumma
Asahi Chimbun
42,249
23.5
28,456
22.9
Jiji Shimpo
1,713
0.9
3,946
3.2
Jomo Shimbun
35,363
19.6
28,621
3.1
Rogyo Shimbun
0
0.0
1,292
1.0
Mainichi Shimbun
46,345
25.7
31,265
25.2
Hippon Keizai
3,610
2.0
4,138
3.3
To yo simbun
2,078
1.2
4,060
3.3
Yomi ui Shimbun
48,625
27.0
21,304
17.6
Others
159
0,1
482
0.4
Total
180,142
100.0
124,064
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
143
392
Ibarali
Asahi Shimbun
55,755
22.8
10,781
18.7
Ibarali Chinbun
26,847
11.0
5,774
10.0
Ji ji chimpo
10,220
4.2
5,902
10.3
Mcinichi Shimbun
60,160
24.5
15,424
26.8
Hippon Keizai
3,689
3.5
2,899
5.0
-13

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 2. RURAL AND URBAN DISTRIBUTION OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS - Continued
Newspaper Circulation
Newspapers
Rural Subscribers
Urban Subscribers
by
Percent
Percent
Region and Prefecture
Number
of Total
Number
of Total
KANTO REGION - Cont.
Ibara'i - Continued
Tolyo Shimbun
8,107
3.3
2,460
4.3
Yomiui Shimbun
74,595
30.4
14,202
24.7
Others
842
0.3
132
0.2
Total
245,215
100.0
57,574
100.0
Fer 1,000 Residents
133
ex
349
Kanagawa
Asahi Shimbun
44,419
19.7
106,071
20.8
Dai Ichi
2,120
0.9
18,280
3.6
Jiji Shimpo
3,852
1.7
26,238
5.2
Kanagawa Shimbun
3,588
1.6
56,477
11.1
Kogyo himbun
0
0.0
2,526
0.5
Mainichi Thinbun
82,572
36.6
62,201
2.2
Iildtan Sports
0
0.0
4,750
0.9
Hippon Keizai
4,691
2.1
18,013
3.5
Gelmi Tippo
0
0.0
19,788
3.9
Chinano Gchinichi
0
0.0
1,000
0.2
Chin Hochi
0
0.0
4,000
0.8
Shin Yukan
1,800
0.8
13.200
2.6
Tolyo Himpo
0
0.0
5,650
1.1
Tolvo Shimbun
9,222
4.1
41,871
8.2
Tolyo Times
1,050
0.5
43,063
8.5
Yomiuri Shimbun
70,715
31.4
81,038
15.9
Yulan Miyako
0
0.0
4,500
0.9
Others
1,474
0.6
981
0.2
Total
225,503
100.0
509,697
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
377
2000
315
Nacano
Asahi Shimbun
42,952
15.4
18,376
13.8
Chubu ißppon
25,625
9.5
11,038
8.3
Jiji Chimpo
5,197
1.8
0
0.0
Mainichi Shimbun
47,184
16.9
21,227
15.9
Kanshin Michinichi
11,390
4.1
9,262
6.9
Hippon Keizai
7,988
2.9
5,593
4.2
Chinano Maini chi
89,690
32.1
23,669
17.7
Chinyo Shimbun
4,381
1.6
7,034
5.3
Yomiuri Shimbun
45,994
7.4
20,763
15.5
Yultan Chinshu
20,536
7.4
13,459
10.1
Others
2.441
0.9
3,138
2.3
Total
304,378
100.0
133,569
100.0
 Per 1,000 Residents
175
XCX
414
-13

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 2. RURAL AND URBAN.DISTRIBUTION OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY MEMSPAPERS - Continued
Newspaper Circulation
lNew spapers
Rural Subscribers
Urban Subscribers
by
Percent
Percent
Regior and Prefecture
Number
of Total
Number
of Total
KAITO REGION - Cont.
liiga'a
Asahi Shimbun
48,389
17.4
19,478
14.1
Ji.ji Shimpo
13,045
4.7
2,182
1.6
Minichi Shimbun
57,868
20.8
17,182
12.4
Fligata Hippo
76,433
27.5
46,518
33.7
iAppon Keizai
13,001
4.7
6,583
4.8
Tolyo Tines
1,160
0.4
2,120
1.5
Yomiuri Shimbun
54,956
19.8
20,921
15.2
Yukan Miigata
11,889
4.3
21,734
15.3
Others
1,076
0.4
1.263
0.9
Total
277,817
100.0
137,981
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
139
XX
333
200:
Saitana
Agahi Shimbun
61,929
20.5
26,776
17.3
Dei Ichi
0
0.0
4,044
2.6
J.i Shimpo
3,814
2.9
9,053
5.8
Mainichi Shimbun
72,792
24.1
29,815
19.2
Nippon Keizai
14,991
5.0
5,680
3.7
Faitama Shimbun
49,448
16.4
21,382
13.8
Cekai Nippo
0
0.0
2,061
1.3
hin Kochi
0
0.0
1,500
1.0
Shin Yukan
0
0.0
4,000
26
Tokyo Limpo
0
0.0
1,610
1.0
Tokyo Shimbun
12,337
4.1
11,102
7.2
Tolyo Times
0
0.0
2,200
1.4
Yomiuri Shimbun
79,869
26.4
32,152
20.7
Yultan Miyako
0
0.0
2,000
1.3
Others
1.922
0.6
1,720
1.1
Total
302,102
100.0
155,095
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
181
xxx
363
x
Tochi
Asahi Shimbun
36,980
22.9
19,353
20.1
Jiji Shimpo
3,198
2.0
4,585
4.8
Mainichi Shimbun
37,380
23.1
23,376
24.3
Mippon Keizai
5,303
3.3
4,224
4.4
Shimozuke Shimbun
23,343
14.4
12,586
13.1
Tokyo Shimbun
4,863
3.0
7,030
7.3
-14

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 2. RURAL AID URBAN DISTRIBUTION OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS - Continued
Newspaper Circulation
Hewspepers
Rural Subscribers
Urban Sutscribers
by
Percent
Percent
Region and Prefecture
Humber
of Total
Number
of Total
KAITO REGION - Cont.
Tochigi - Continued
Yomiuri Shimbun
50,021
30.9
24,077
25.1
Others
720
0.4
832
0.9
Total
161,803
100.0
96,063
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
126
ox
390
Toisyo
Asahi Shimbun
39,848
22.9
363,156
18.5
Dai Ichi
8,700
5.0
37,556
1.9
Jiji Shimpo
8,324
4.8
68,777
3.5
Kogyo Shinbun
0
0.0
7,381
0.4
Mainichi Shimbun
46,466
26.7
319,343
16.2
Mikan Sports
1,600
0.9
21,400
1.1
Tippon Keizai
7,906
4.6
86,215
4.4
Sangyo Keizai
0
0.0
1,464
0.1
Seiji Shimbun
0
0.0
12,000
0.6
Sekai Nippo
0
0.0
39,681
2.0
Shinano Nichinichi
0
0.0
1,000
0.1
Shin Hochi
0
0.0
29,300
1.5
Shin Yukan
0
0.0
39,950
2.0
Tolyo Timpo
3,500
2.0
50,220
2.6
Tokyo Shimbun
5,534
3.2
336,470
17.1
Tolyo Times
3,460
2.0
113,139
5.8
Tolyo Tomin
0
0.0
26,479
1.3
Yomiuri Shimbun
48,000
27.6
385,053
19.6
Yukan Miyako
0
0.0
21,600
1.1
Others
437
0.3
4.463
0.2
Total
173,775
100.0
1,964,647
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
246
xx
458
Yamanashi
Asahi Shimbun
22,544
17.4
4,349
14.6
Jiji Shimpo
3,036
2.3
0
0.0
Mainichi Shimbun
24,432
18.8
3,441
11.5
Nippon Keizai
2,712
2.1
0
0.0
Yamanashi Jiji
22,948
17.7
7,730
25.9
Yamanashi Nichinichi
29,278
22.5
6,600
28.8
Yomiuri Shimbun
24,189
18.6
3,288
11.0
Others
731
0.6
2,458
8.2
Total
129,870
100.0
29,866
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
185
284
DX
-15

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
Table 2. RURAL AND URBAN.DISTRIBUTTON OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE BAILY LEWSPAPERS - Continued
Newspaper Circulation
Newspapers
Rura1 Subscribers
Urban Subscrioers
by
Percent
Percent
Region and Prefecture
Number
of Total
Number
of Total
KYUSHU REGION
Fukuoka
Asahi Shimbun
79,194
24.2
107,745.
21.9
Kyushu Times
6,297
1.9
54,872
11.2
Mainichi Shimbun
69,965
21.4
101,412
20.6
Mippon Keizai
0
0.0
1,325
0.3
Wi shi ippon
142,499
43.5
110,111
22.4
Shin Kyushu
6,287
2.5
46,809
9.5
Yuk n. Futuni chi
20,208
6.2
67,572
13.7
Others
941
0.3
2.456
0.5
Total
327,391
100.0
492,302
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
179
J0Y
365
20x
Kagoshine
Asahi Shimbun
29,750
17.9
9,437
15.9
Maini.chi Shinbun
28,063
16.8
10,019
16.8
Minami Tippon
81,452
48.9
30,903
51.9
Lishi Mippon
26,620
16.0
3,540
14.5
Others
638
0.4
517
0.9
Total
166,523
100.0
59,521
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
113
218
Kunanoto
Asahi Shimbun
26,639
18.7
17,385
17.3
Kumanoto Michinichi
66,904
46.9
42,500
43.6
Mainichi Shimbun
25,639
18.0
18,268
18.8
Ini shi Vippon
23,156
16.2
15,496
15.9
Yukan Fulunichi
0
0.0
2,204
2.3
Others
253
0.2
1,598
1.6
Total
142,641
100.0
97,451
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
104
00
249
Miyazai
Asahi Shimbun
20,893
23.9
12,300
21.5
Hyuga lichinichi
25,782
29.5
17,413
30.5
Maini chi Shimbun
17,984
20.5
10,934
19.2
Minami Mippon
1,160
1.3
3,390
5.9
Hishi Jippon
20,805
23.8
11,876
20.8
Others
930
1.0
1,203
2.1
Total
87,554
100.0
57,116
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
117
XC
240
-16

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 2. RURAL AID URBAN DISTRIBUTION OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY NERSPAPERS - Continued
Newspaper Circulation
Nowspapors
Rural Subscribers
Urban Subscribers
by
Percent
Percent
Region and. Prefecture
Number
of Total
Humber
of Total
KYUSHU REGION - Cont.
Hagasaki
Asahi Shimbun
24,690
17.8
26,770
18.5
Mainichi Shimbun
24,330
17.6
26,171
18.0
Hagasaldi Minyu
19,550
14.1
25,210
17.4
Magasali Nichinichi
17,557
12.7
24,218
16.7
Hppon Keizai
0
0.0
1,090
0.7
Mishi Tippon
44,429
32.0
28,796
19.9
Sasebo Jiji
1,601
1.2
5,180
3.6
Shin Shimabara
5,022
3.6
2,820
1.9
Yomiuri Shimbun
0
0.0
1,252
0.9
Yutan Futunichi
1,140
0.8
1,652
1.1
Others
337
0.2
1.874
1.3
Total
138,656
100.0
144,973
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
139
XXX
271
x
Oita
Asahi Shimbun
27,878
23.3
19,672
26.5
Mainichi Shimbun
21,692
18.2
18,609
25.1
Mishi Hippon
18,556
15.5
11,624
15.7
Oita Godo
50,810
42.5
19,389
26.2
Shin yushu
0
0.0
2,905
3.9
Others
614
0.5
1,898
2.6
Total
119,550
100.0
74,097
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
131
XOX
231
Saga
Asahi Shimbun
21,222
16.1
5,433
17.1
Mainichi Shimbun
17,152
13.0
5,130
16.2
Hishi Hippon
61,306
46.5
10,184
32.1
Saga Shimbun
29,311
22.2
8,664
27.3
Yutan Furunichi
2,055
1.6
1,402
4.4
Others
793
0.6
93ó
2.9
Total
131,839
100.0
31,749
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
164
277
-17-

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 2. RURAL AND URBAN DISTRIBUTION OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS - Continued
Newspeper Circulation
Newspapers
Rural Subscribers
Urban Subscribers
by
Percent
Percent
Region and Prefecture
Number
of Total
Number
of Total
TOHOKU RGION AND HOKKAIDO
Alita
Akita Saigake
52,958
37.5
11,442
39.9
Asahi Shimbun
23,812
16.9
4,444
15.5
Jiji Shimpo
5,516
3.9
1,981
6.9
Meinichi Shimbun
23,632
16.7
3,535
12.4
Mippon Keizai
3,593
2.5
1,572
5.5
Yomiuri Shimbun
30,596
21.7
5,196
10.1
Others
1,095
0.8
483
1.7
Total
141,202
100.0
28,653
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
129
176
Aomori
Asala Shimbun
12,176
9.6
6,413
9.
Daily Toholu
7,816
6.2
14,786
21.1
Hakodate Shimbun
4,304
3.8
5,330
7.6
Jiji Shimpo
4,112
3.3
2,040
2.9
Kaholtu Shimpo
1,623
1.3
0
0.0
Kogyo Shimbun
0
0.0
1,100
1.6
Mainichi Shimbun
16,397
12.9
5,812
3.3
Hippon Keizai
3,300
2.6
1,900
7.7
Too Hippo
59,546
47.0
19,763
28.4
Yomiuri Shinbun
16,906
13.3
11,305
16.2
Others
40
*
1.387
2.0
Total
126,720
100.0
69,836
100.0
Pcr 1,000 Residents
136
284
Fulushima
Asahi Shinbun
57,443
25.7
15,756
20.6
Fulushima Mimpo
33,879
15.1
16,306
21.3
Fukushima Xinyu
25,343
11.3
4,657
6.1
Jiji Shimpo
7,749
3.5
2,607
3.4
Mainichi Shimbun
44,443
19.8
16,894
22.1
Ißppon Keizai
6,815
3.0
4,410
5.8
Yomiuri Snimbun
47,879
21.4
15,664
20.5
Others
376
0.2
162
0.2
Total
223,927
100.0
76,456
100.0
Fer 1,000 Residents
128
316
* Less than 0.05 percent
-18

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 2. RURAL AND URBAF DISTRIBUTION OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS - Continued
Newspaper Circulation
Newspapers
Rural Subscribers
Urban Subscribers
by
Percent
Percent
Region and Prefecture
Number
of Total
Number
of Total
TOHOKU REGION
and HOKKAIDO - Cont.
Hok:aido
Asahi Shimbun
19,892
4.1
20,176
3.9
Halodate Shimbun
12,701
2.6
37,253
7.2
HoLieido Shimbun
335,069
68.2
292,374
56.5
Hokai Michinichi
40,002
8.1
31,050
6.0
Holkai Times
4,662
1.0
45,519
8.8
Mainichi Shimbun
16,479
3.3
12,432
2.4
Muroran Mimpo
3,176
0.6
10,176
2.0
Hippon Keizai
4,208
0.9
7,124
1.4
Shin Holitai
36,768
7.5
41,172
3.0
Yomiuri Chimbun
17,360
3.5
18,236
3.5
Others
912
0.2
1.435
0.3
Total
491,229
100.0
516,947
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
134
2020
43ε
2000
Iwate
Asahi Crimbun
23,311
16.0
5,541
13.0
Iwate Shimpo
25,048
17.1
6,787
13.5
Jiji Shimpo
2,768
1.9
0
0.0
Mainichi Shimbun
25,062
17.2
11,707
23.3
Hippon Keizai
3,845
2.6
1,157
?.3
Shin Iwate. Nippo
43,223
29.6
16,595
33.0
Yomiuri Shimbun
22,688
15.5
6,974
13.9
Others
185
0.1
527
1.0
Total
146,130
100.0
50,288
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
134
XX
291
iyagi
Asahi Shimbun
19,422
13.1
13,75?
11.0
Iwato Shimpo
0
0.0
3,000
2.4
Jiji Shimpo
3,465
2.3
3,652
2.9
Kaholau Shimpo
73,600
49.8
57,217
45.6
Mainichi Shimbun
19,424
13.2
10,944
8.7
Lippon Keizai
2,345
1.6
3,721
3.0
Yomiui Shimbun
24,620
16.7
7,205
5.7
Yutan Toholu
4,668
3.2
25,38?
20.2
Others
156
0.1
702
0.5
Total
147,700
100.0
125,575
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
125
328
-1

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 2. RURAL AND URBAN DISTRIBUTION OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS - Continued
Newspaper Ciroulation
Nowspapers
Rural Subscribers
Urban
Subscribers
by
Percent
Percent
Region and Frcfecture
Number
of Total
Number
of Total
TOHOKU REGION
and HOITAIDO - Cont.
Yamagata
Asahi Shinbun
18,221
15.7
12,576
17.1
Jiji Shimpo
5,837
5.1
2,482
3.4
Mai:ichi Shimbun
20,387
17.5
15,961
21.7
ilippon Keizai
3,033
2.6
3,561
4.9
Yamagata Shimbun
43,299
37.2
25,589
34.9
Yoniuri Shinbun
24,801
21.3
12,658
17.2
Others
658
0.6
606
0.6
Total
116,286
100.0
73,433
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
107
YOOX
298
SIIKOKU REGION
Ehime
Asahi Shimbun
28,989
22.8
22,627
20.8
Enime Shimbun
46,444
36.5
33,935
31.3
Mainichi Shimbun
24,061
18.9
18,569
17.1
Mankai Times
7,786
6.1
13,690
12.6
Osala Ji ji
0
0.0
1,550
1.4
Sangyo Keizai
1,699
1.3
1,760
1.6
Shin hine
17,079
13.5
14,190
13.1
Others
1,074
0.9
2,238
2.1
Total
127,132
100.0
108,559
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
119
XX
281
Kagawa
Asahi uhimbun
24,128
38.0
12,758
36.5
Maini chi Shimbun
14,542
22.9
10,130
25.9
Osala Ji ji
1,501
2.3
1,200
3.4
Sangyo Keizai
1,040
1.6
1,043
3.0
Shilolu Shimbun
21,783
34.3
9,424
26.9
Others
558
0.9
461
1.3
Total
63,552
100.0
35,016
100.0
Por 1,000 Residents
86
00
197
-201

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 2. RURAL AND URBAN DISTRIBUTION OF
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY IIEWSPAPERS - Continued
Newspaper Circulation
Hewspapers
Rural Subscribers
Urban Jubscribers
by
Percent
Porcent
Region and Prefecture
Number
of Total
Number
of Total
SHIKOKU REGION - Cont.
Kochi
Asahi Shimbun
8,760
8.0
4,290
9.2
Kochi tippo
18,880
17.2
12,129
26.1
Kochi Shimbun
70,934
64.6
23,637
50.8
Mainichi Shimbun
10,348
9.4
4,023
8.7
Sangyo Keizai
0
0.0
1,065
2.3
Others
875
0.8
1.358
2.9
Total
109,797
100.0
26,507
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
156
XX
316
Tokushima
Asahi Shimbun
16,446
18.1
6,931
16.9
Mainichi Shimbun
16,206
17.9
5,933
14.5
Tolushima Kimpo
20,471
22.5
10,045
24.6
Tolrushima Shinbun
35,942
39.6
14,829
36.3
Others
1,709
1.9
3,169
7.7
Total
90,774
100.0
20,907
100.0
Per 1,000 Residents
128
2000
280
-21-

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.91)
CHART 3. CIRCULATION
OF PRINCIPAL JAPANESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS
1 September 1947
URBAN
ihe wdn dsdoton es seiyto ndn
distxh, aboch caatoraly ansy musrtrey seall
RURAL
AXTTA
LEGEND
Nurmber or Nemspaper Sooscriptions
Per 10oo Persans
Less Then 100
100-149
150-199
200-240
250-299
300-344
350-399
aver 399
-22-

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
Appendix 1
113 PRINCIPAL JAPAIESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS
RANKED ACCORDING TO TOTAL CIRCULATION
1 September 1947
Newspaper
Circulation
Newspaper (cont.)
Circulation
Asahi Shimbun
3.490.814
Ehime Shimbun
80,379
Mainichi Shimbun
3.196,136
Dai Ichi
80,000
Yomiuri Shimbun
1,626,449
Too Nippo
79.309
Chubu Nippon
778,552
Chukyo Shimbun
79.256
Hokkaido Shimbun
627.443
Shin Hokkai
77.940
Nishi Nippon
546.577
Shinko Yukan
75.512
Tokyo Shimbun
471.971
Kyoto Nichinichi
73.991
Nippon Keizai
327.472
Miyako Shimbun
73,920
Osaka Shimbun
307,272
Hokkai Nichinichi
71.052
Jiji Shimpo
248,338
Saitama Shimbun
70.830
Chugoku Shimbun
198.418
Oita Godo
70,199
Tokyo Times
168,892
Yukan Shin Tokai
70,002
Kobe Shimbun
153.544
Yamagata Shimbun
68,888
Godo Shimbun
151,177
Kyushu Times
68.570
Kyoto Shimbun
137.954
Nagoya Times
67.769
Kahoku Shimpo
132,140
Sekai Nippo
66.494
Hokkoku Mainichi
131.868
Shin Kyushu
66.481
Niigata Nippo
122,951
Gifu Times
65,873
Sangyo Keizai
217,804
Akita Sakigake
64,400
Minami Nippon
116,910
Shin Yukan
64,150
Shinano Mainichi
113.359
Jomo Shimbun
63.984
Osaka Nichinichi
110,500
Yukan Kyoto
62,955
Kumamoto Nichinichi
109.404
Fukui Shimbun
62,520
Shin Osaka
107,059
Tokyo Mimpo
60,980
Yukan Fukunichi
98,033
Hakodate Shimbun
60,088
Osaka Jiji
96,304
Kanagawa Shimbun
60,065
Kochi Shimbun
94.571
Shin Iwate Nippo
59.818
Shin Nippon
04.400
Toyama Shimbun
53.858
04.154
Kita Nippon
Tokushima Shimbun
50.771
Shizuoka Shimbun
82.052
Fukushima Mimpo
50,185
-23

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix 1. 113 PRINCIFAL JAPANESE DAILY NEWSPAPERS
RANKED ACCORDING TO TOTAL CIRCULATION - Continued
Newspeper
Circulation
Newspaper (cont.)
Circulation
Hokkai Times
50,181
Yukan Miyako
29,600
Bocho Shimbun
47,358
Yukan Mie
28,937
Tokai Mainichi
45.171
Shiga Shimbun
28,907
Nagasaki Minyu
44.760
Sanin Nichinichi
28,484
Hyuga Nichinichi
43.195
Yukan Okayama
27.850
Ise Shimbun
42,954
Nikkan Sports
27.750
Wakayama Shimbun
42,825
Osaka Times
27,500
Shimane Shimbun
41.867
Sanyo Choho
26.652
Nagasaki Nichinichi
41.775
Tokyo Tomin
26.479
Ishikawa Shimbun
39,000
Chubu Keizai
25.630
Saga Shimbun
37.975
Daily Tohoku
22,602
Yamanashi Nichinichi
37.878
Nankai Times
21.476
Shimozuke Shimbun
35.929
Nanshin Nichinichi
20,652
Shin Hochi
35,800
Kogyo Shimbun
19.161
Iwate Shimpo
34.835
Yamato Times
18,819
Yukan Hiroshima
34,287
Nohi Shimbun
18.710
Yukan Shinshu
34.005
Nara Nichinichi
16,616
Yukan Niigata
33.623
Muroran Mimpo
13,352
Hokuriku Yukan
33,200
Seiji Shimbun
12,000
Ibaraki Shimbun
32.621
Shinyo Shimbun
11,415
Chiba Shimbun
32,092
Shin Shimabara
7.842
Shin Ehime
31,269
Sasebo Jiji
6.781
Shikoku Shimbun
31,207
Shinano Nichinichi
3,000
Kochi Nippo
31,009
Nippon Kai
30,869
Additional
Yamanashi Jiji
30,678
Circulation
135,617
Tokushima Mimpo
30.516
Yukan Tohoku
30,050
Fukushima Minyu
30,000
Grand Total
17,776,115
Tokai Yukan
29.688
*
This figure represents cumulative circulations of ll3 newspapers
distributing less than 1,000 copies in any prefecture and shown
in "others" in Table 2.
-24

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
Appendix 2
TOTAL CIRCULATION OF NEWSPAPERS
1 September 1947
Name of Newspaper
Area of Distribution
Rural
Urban
Akita Sakigake
Akita Prefecture
52,958
11,442
Asahi Shimbun
Nation-wide
1,709.042
1,781,772
Bocho Shimbun
Yamaguchi Prefecture
15,614
31.744
Chiba Shimbun
Chiba Frefecture
20,660
11,432
Chubu Keizai
Chubu Region
10,327
15.303
Chubu Nippon
Chubu Region, Shiga and
Nagano Prefectures
451,028
327.524
Chugoku Shimoun
Chugoku Region
03,672
104.746
Chukyo Shimbun
Chubu Region
27.452
51,804
Dai Ichi
Kansai and Kanto Regions
15,120
64,880
Daily Tohoku
Aomori Prefecture
7.816
14.786
Ehime Shimbun
Ehime Prefecture
46,444
33,935
Fukui Shimbun
Fukui Prefecture
38,104
24.335
Fukushima limpo
Fukushima Prefecture
33,879
16.306
Fukushima Minyu
Fukushima Prefecture
25.343
4.657
Gifu Times
Gifu Prefecture
39,987
25,886
Godo Shimbun
Hiroshima, Ckayama Prefs.
117.369
33,808
Hakodate Shimbun
Hokkaido, Aomori Fref.
17,505
42,583
Hokkaido Shimbun
Hokkaido
335.069
292,374
Hokkai Nichinichi
Hokkaido
40,002
31.050
Hokkai Times
Hokkaido
4,662
45.519
Hokkoku Mainichi
Ishikawa Prefecture
68.972
62,896
Hokuriku Yukan
Toyama Prefecture
12,193
21,007
Hyuga Nichinichi
Miyazaki Prefecture
25.782
17.413
Ibaraki Shimbun
Ibaraki Prefecture
26,847
5.774
Ise Shimbun
Mie Prefecture
23.521
10.433
Ishikawa Shimbun
Ishikawa Prefecture
18,000
20,100
Iwate Shimpo
Iwate, Miyagi Prefectures
25.048
0.787
Jiji Shimpo
Nation-wide
98,660
140,678
Jomo Shimbun
Gumma Prefecture
35.363
28,621
-25-

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
Append1x 2. TOTAL CIRCULATION OF NEWSPAPERS - Continued
1 September 1947
Circulation
Name of Newspaper
Area of Distribution
Rural
Urban
Kahoku Shimpo
Aomori, Miyagi Prefectures
75,223
57,217
Kanagawa Shimbun
Kanagawa Prefecture
3,588
56,477
Kita Nippon
Toyama Prefecture
64,019
30,135
Kobe Shimbun
Hyogo Prefecture
78,891
74,653
Kochi Nippo
Kochi Prefecture
18,880
12,129
Kochi Shimbun
Kochi Prefecture
70,934
23,637
Kogyo Shimbun
Nation-wide
0
19,161
Kumamoto Nichinichi
Kumamoto Prefecture
66,904
42,500
Kyoto Michinichi
Kansai Region
2,851
71,140
Kyoto Shimbun
Kansai Region
29,444
108,510
Kyushu Times
Fukuoka, Yamaguchi Prefs.
6,297
62,273
Mainichi Shimbun
Nation-wide
1,515,022
1,581,114
Minami Mppon
Kagoshima, Miyazaki Prefs.
82,612
34,298
Miyako Shimbun
Kansai Region
1,720
72,200
Muroran Mimpo
Holkaido
3,176
10,176
Nagasali Minyu
Nagasald Prefecture
19,550
25,210
Nagasali ächinichi
Nagasakd Prefecture
17,557
24,218
Nagoya Times
Chubu Region
11,192
56,577
Nankai Times
Ehime Prefecture
7,786
13,690
Nanshin Michinichi
Nagano Prefecture
11,390
9,262
Nara Nichinichi
Nara Prefecture
8,816
7,300
Niigata Nippo
Niigata Prefecture
76,433
46,518
Nikkan Sports
Nation-wide
1,600
26,150
Nippon Kai
To tori Prefecture
18,719
12,150
Nippon Keizai
Nation-wide
126,122
201,350
Ni shi Nippon
Kyushu Region, Shimane and
Yamaguchi Prefectures
344,722
201,855
Nohi Shimbun
ifu Prefecture
12,846
5,864
Oita Godo
Oita Prefecture
50,810
19,389
Osaka Jiji
Kansai Region, Ehime and
Kagawa Prefectures
35,570
60,734
Osaka Michinichi
Kansai Region
30,500
80,000
Osaka Shimbun
Kansai Region
26,798
280,474
Osaka Times
Hyogo, Osaka Prefectures
0
.27,500
Saga Shimbun
Saga Prefecture
29,311
8,664
Saitama Shimbun
Saitama Prefecture
49,448
21,382
Sangyo Keizei
Nation-wide
28,393
89,411
Sanin Nichinichi
Shimane, Tottori Prefectures
19,971
8,513
Sanyo Choho
Okayama, Hiroshima Prefs.
17,028
9,624
Sasebo Jiji
Nagasald Prefecture
1,601
5,130
Seiji Shimbun
Tokyo Prefecture
0
12,000
Sekai Nippo
Kanto Reg., Shizuoka Pref.
0
66,494
Shiga Shimbun
Kyoto, Shiga Prefectures
15,852
13,055
Shikoku Shimbun
Kagawa Prefecture
21,783
9,424
Shimane Shinbun
Shimane Prefecture
33,883
7,984
-26

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
TOTAL CIRCULATION OF NEWSPAPERS - Continued
Appendix 2.
1 September 1947
Groulation
Name of Newspaper
Area of Distribution
Rural
Urban
Shimozuke Shimbun
Tochigi Prefecture
23,343
12,586
Shinano Mainichi
Nagano Prefecture
89,690
23,669
Shinano Nichinichi
Kanagawa, Osaka and
Tokyo Prefectures
0
3,000
Shin Ehime
Ehime Prefecture
17,079
14,190
Shin Hochi
Kanto Region
0
35,800
Shin Holtai
Hokaido
36,768
41,172
Shin Iwate Nippo
Iwate Prefecture
43,223
16,595
Shinko Yukan
Hyogo Prefecture
23,505
52,007
Shin Kyushu
Fukuoka, Oita, and
Yamaguchi Prefectures
8,287
58,194
Shin Hippon
Kansai Region
9,200
85,200
Shin Osaka
Kansai Region
5,712
101,347
Shin Shimabara
Nagasaki Prefecture
5,022
2,820
Shinyo Shimbun
Magano Prefecture
4,381
7,034
Shin Yukan
Kanto Region
1,800
62,350
Shi zuoka Shimbun
Shizuoka Prefecture
39,484
43,168
Tokai Mainichi
Chubu Reg., Shiga Pref.
24,899
20,272
Tokai Yukan
Aichi, Gifu Prefectures
10,048
19,640
Tokushima Mimpo
Tokushima Prefecture
20,471
10,045
Tokushima Shimbun
Tokushima Prefecture
35,942
14,829
Tokyo Mimpo
Kanto Region
3,500
57,480
Tokyo Shimbun
Kanto Reg., Osala Pref.
50,733
421,238
Tokyo Times
Kanto Region
5,670
163,222
Tolyo Tomin
Tolyo Prefecture
0
26,479
Too lippo
Aomori Prefecture
59,546
19,763
Toyama Shimbun
Toyama Prefecture
30,128
23,730
Wakayama Shimbun
Wakayama Prefecture
13,575
29,250
Yamagata Shimbun
Yamagata Prefecture
43,299
25,589
Yamanashi Ji ji
Yamanashi Prefecture
22,948
7,730
Yamanashi Nichinichi
Yamanashi Prefecture
29,278
3,600
Yamato Times
IHara Prefecture
12,927
5,892
Yomiuri Shimbun
Nation-wide
846,179
780,270
Yultan Fulrunichi
Kyushu Region and
Yamaguchi Prefecture
23,403
74,530
Yukan Hiroshima
Yamaguchi, Hiroshima Prefs.
4,566
29,721
Yukan Kyoto
Kyoto, Shiga Prefectures
1,385
61,570
Yukan ie
Mie Prefecture
8,647
20,290
Yuktan Miyako
Kanto Region
0
29,600
Yukan Higata
Miigata Prefecture
11,889
21,734
Yultan Okayama
Okeyama Prefecture
10,803
17,047
Yukan Shin Tokai
Chubu Region
7,294
62,708
Yultan Shinshu
Hagano Prefecture
20,536
13,469
Yukan Toholu
Miyagi Prefecture
4,668
25,382
-27

=== Page 91 === (confidence 1.00)
INDEX TO PREFECTURES AND REGIONS IN TABLE 2
Prefecture
Page
Prefecture
Page
Prefecture
Page
Aichi
6
Kochi
21
Tokushima
21
Akita
18
Kumamoto
16
Tokyo
15
Aomori
18
Kyoto
10
Tottori
9
Chiba
12
Mie
7
Toyama
8
Ehime
20
Miyagi
19
Wakayama
11
Fukui
6
Miyazaki
16
Yamagata
20
Fukuoka
16
Nagano
13
Yamaguchi
9
Fukushima
18
Nagasaki
17
Yamanashi
15
Gifu
6
Nara
10
Gumma
12
Niigata
14
Region
Hiroshima
8
Oita
17
Hokkaido
19
Okayama
8
Kyogo
9
Osaka
11
Chubu
6
Ibaraki
12
Saga
17
Chugoku
8
Ishikawa
7
Saitama
14
Hokkaido
19
Kansai
9
Iwate
19
Shiga
11
Kanto
12
Kagawa
20
Shimane
8
Kyushu
16
Kagoshima
16
Shizuoka
7
Tohoku
18
Kanagava
13
Tochigi
14
Shikoku
20
-28-

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.96)
fos
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tde DC/R
Tokyo, November 18, 1948
PERSONAL
M almeond
Hoover hedrany on
War, Revolution,
Dear Frank:
and Peace
A friend of mine has asked me whether I know anyone who might
C
be interested in purchasing a complete file of the Mainichi Shimbun
(Japanese edition) from June 17, 1917 to date. I am told that the
collection is in excellent condition, except for very slight singed
edges caused by a fire durin- the bombing of Tokyo. I am assured
that the only copies which are missing are on press holidays, two
days during the 1923 earthquake, and several issues during the war
894.911
when the paper was unobtainable, but for these days issues of other
papers were inserted. Apparently, the total number of days missing
is about fifteen.
It has occurred to me that the Library of Congress or one of
the major universities might be interested in purchasing this col-
lection. The price asked is something around 400 or 500 thousand
yen. I have no way of jud ging whether this is expensive or not, but
at an exchange rate of approximately 300 yen for one Us dollar, it
doesn't seem too high, and of course there is always the possibility
1
of bargaining, although guite naturally I would not like to be placed
in the position of striking a hard bargain.
8
48
I hope that vou will not consider me in the second-hand business
but some of my Japanese friends appear to think that I am the only
person in the world who can help them. My own reaction, of course,
is to increase cultural acquisitions in appropriate institutions in
the United States.
With best regards.
Sincerely yours,
Bil
894.
CS
40
. J. ebald
S/H
1 
Frank A.chuler, Jr., Esquire,
Chief, Japan and Korea Branch,
Office of Information and Education Exchange,
Department of State,
Washington 25, D.C.
hetlysvermar
-11-7j-fa

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
Pos
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
DR
TO
: POS/J - Dr. D. C. Buchanan
DATE December 30, 1948
via ILi: CA Sher
FROM : ILI - C. E. Walton
SUBJECT:
Attached Letter
Following our conversation of two days ago, I telephoned
Mr. Keyes Metcalf, the director of the Harvard University Library
at Cambridge, Massachusetts, and informed him of the offer contained
in Mr. Sebald's letter from Tokyo of November 18.
In Mr. Metcalf's absence from his office, the actual conver-
sation wes held with Dr. Andrew Osborn, one of the bibliographic
experts on the staff who is in charge of the ordering and cataloging
of Harvard books. Dr. Osborn showed considerable interest in this
offer; agreed that the price was reasonable; and stated that, in
FW 894.911
view of the building up of a study program in the Japanese area,
Harvard wished to acquire as much original source material as
possible.
The opinion of Mr. Fairbanks (formerly of our staff in China)
was desired before giving us an answer to Mr. Sebald's letter.
Dr. Osborn therefore requested that this matter be held in abeyance
by the Department for a week or ten days at most and promised to
advise me as soon as possible of developments at Cembridge.
-1848
POBLIC AFFAIRB OTERSEAS PROGRAN STAFF
Japan-Korean Branch
POS/J
DEC 3 1 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
F0894.911
C
S
H
OEX: ILI: CEWAton: bvw
036145

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Jnited States Political Adviser
for Japan
DCR
Tokyo, December 20, 1948
Na794
TASTAN AFFAIRS
1う
DEC 35 1948
3.
RESTRICTED
DIPARIMENT OF STATE
29
ubjeet: new nead for rucific stars and Stripes.
8
A9
89
The nonorable
The secretary of stete,
ashington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that Hajor Fred W.
Y of issouri las been ausigned as of ficer in charge
FE
of racific stars and stripes s of December 13, 1948.
2-2048
stars and ptripes is locally rated by professional
newsmen as the worst or the four n lish language news-
pos
papers published in Ja, an and is outclassed, in their
Opinion, by Cer, published by the British Commonwealth
oLl
vecupation Forces; the n lish edition of Mainichi, pub-
SA/M
lished in Uska; and ippon Times, published in Tokyo.
In the opinion of these newsnen, poor make-up and
careless captionins in stars and Stripes, while most eye-
DK
cutchins to the lsyman, are subordinate in importance to
the demonstrated in bility of the editors of Stars and
Stripes to choose the lead story of the day. This lack
of flair combined ith intramural administrative troubles
finally moved the Chief of Staff to replace the army officer
S5
in charge of Stars ane Stripes with a competent admini-
strator and editor in the person of Major May.
A1
It is understood that Major ay vill have supervision
over editorial practices on the newsmper, although he
will still leave actual editins to M.h. HiTaalwaY, as
894.911
Munagins ditor, and deorge W. Hu, us City Editor. Major
May in civilian life is a workins newspaperman. A grad-
uate of the University of i issouri School of Journalism
and cometime trustee of the University, he was unti1 1941
editor
RSERICTED
FEB1
12-2048
FILED
3

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 794,
December 20, 1948
-2-
editor and publisher of the Lebanon (Missouri) Daily
News, in which he is understood to retain his financial
interest. Major May is also  past president of the
Associated Dailies of Missouri.
Major may ias for the past ten months been chief
of tne news division of the Public Information Office
durins which time relations with the working press have
improved considerably. In that position he replaced
mr. be SIhiIN in the general reorganization of the Pub-
lic Inform tion Office when Colonel Michael Patrick
CnoS was installed as Public Information Officer.
Major May's ssisnment to Stars and Stripes can be expected
to improve the relations of the paper with those persons
who are currently in charge of the public relations policy
of Headquarters.
Respectfully yours,
.
W.J. Sebald
091
Amaden: hh
Original tnd hectograph
to Department.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.94)
POS
DCIR
THE LIBRARIAN OF CONGRESS
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
lile
1948
Dear Mr. Schuler:
Thank you for your kind letter of November 26, 1948,
reporting that there exists a complete file in Tokyo of the
894.911/12-2148
Mainichi Shimbun (Japanese Edition) June 17, 1917, to date.
In view of the likelihood that we shall be able to
obtain a microfilm reproduction of this paper and in view of
the extreme perishability of most Japanese newsprint, we do not
x
feel that we should purchase this file at this time. We may
possibly wish to reconsider the purchase of an original set of
the Mainichi Shimbun if we find that it is impossible to film a
complete file. If the file offered is still available, we shall
then reconsider its purchase.
Your interest in offering this important file to the
Library is deeply appreciated.
Sinçerely yours,
Luther A. vans
Luther H. Evans
Librarian of Congress
Mr. Frank A. Schuler, Jr.
Chief, Japan-Korea Branch
X
Public Affairs Overseas Program Staff
Copy Bul dhued
S
94.911
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
  ELS  
Japan-Korean Branch
POS/I
DEC 23 1948
12-214
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
DC/R
HARVARD·COLLEGE·LIBRARY
CAMBRIDGE 38·MASSACHUSETTS
fel
Man 25 1949
January 18, 1949
Mr. Clarence E. Walton
Libraries Section
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Clarence:
894.911/1-1849
Sorry, I cannot persuade our Chinese people to buy
the newspaper Mainichi Shimbun about which you telephoned.
They very much hope that some other library in this
country will buy it, and suggest Yale as the most likely
place. Perhaps the Hoover Library will be interested if
8
Yale is not.
We have Asahi Shimbun, vhich is the newspaper Dr. Chiu
prefers.
Sincerely yours,
Andres
Andrew D. Osborn
Assistant Librarian
ADO:nf
CS/H
JUN291949
Et
FILED
036148
