894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., September 17, 1934 - January 18, 1938 (File 997), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.00-997-2   Pages: 644   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-20/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20September%2017%2C%201934%20-%20January%2018%2C%201938%20997-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
war while he was in office. However, the material increase
in the Japanese forces in Manchuria planned by the Army
would eventually bring about a serious situation through
the proximity of large numbers of Japanese and Soviet
troops and through the consequent augmentation of Japan's
chances of waging a successful war against the USSR.*
Nevertheless, at the end of the month it did not seem that
war between the two countries would break out in the near
future as a result of any desire on the part of either
nation to start a war.
(b). China.
Sino-Japanese relations were somewhat eclipsed by
5
the increased tension in Soviet-Japanese relations and by
the internal situation in Japan which arose from the
incident of February 26. The only important development
in the relations between the two countries was the decision
to increase the Japanese  arrison in North China. According
to the NICHI ICHI of March 12 it is contemplated that
about ¥1,000,000 will be spent on the reinforcement of the
Japanese garrison in North China. The four-day conversa-
tions between Ambassador Hachiro Arita and Foreien Minister
Chang Chun appeared to have accomplished very little,
judgine from the communiqué issued on March 19:
"The talks were intended to pave the way for
future negotiations to adjust relations between
the two countries. It followed, therefore, that
no definite date had been set beforehand, nor any
limit set to the topics.
"Freely
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1741
of March 18, 1936.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
"Freely launching on various phases of the
Sino-Japanese situation, the conferees have not
attempted, however, to come to any special con-
clusions during the conversations."
Of more interest is the interview given to newspaper
correspondents by Major General Rensuke Isogai, Military
Attaché to the Japanese Embassy in China, after his con-
versation with General Sung Che-yuan, Chairman of the
Hopei-Chahar Political Council. According to a Domei
(news agench) despatch from Peiping dated March 14, the
conversation dealt with the relations among China, "Manchu-
kuo", and Japan in North China and with the Chinese Com-
munist invasion of Shensi Province, and Major General
Isogai afterwards stated in his interview that he was
greatly disappointed with the lack of improvement in
general conditions in the North of China since his visit
of February, l935; that he had anticipated real improve-
ments in general conditions in that region as well as in
relations among Japan, China, and "Manchukuo" as a result
of the establishment of the Hopei-Chahar Political Council;
that the Japanese military authorities should firmly
determine to arrive at effective measures to improve the
situation, which in his opinion they were fully prepared
to do; and that General Sung Che-yuan must drastically
revise his opinions concerning the general situation in
the Far East and the relationship among China, Japan, and
"Manchukuo".
As early as March 14 it was reported by the press that
Mr. Hachiro Arita, Ambassador to China, would be chosen
as the Minister for Foreign Affairs to take the portfolio
held

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
held temporarily by Hirota, the Premier. Mr. Arita left
Shanghai for Japan on March 23 and before his departure
was reported by Domei of March 2l to have declined to
express en opinion as to what extent the Chinese were
prepared to cooperate with Japan. In any case, the
Japanese newspapers reported that Mr. Arita had been
unsuccessful in persuadine the Chinese to fall in with
Mr. Hirota's three-point policy. This policy was again
outlined to the Embassy as follows on March 13:* Cessation
of anti-Japanese activities and propaganda; recognition of
the fact of "Manchukuo" through regularization of such
relations as communications, transit, customs, etc.; and
cooperation between Japan and China to combat the expansion
of communism in the latter country. Although Premier Hirota
told the Ambassador that this program had been accepted in
principle by the Chinese Government, reports emanating from
China continued to deny that the Nanking Government was in
accord with such a policy.
In a word, the gradual advance of Janan into North
China seemed to have been held in abeyance during the
month.
(c). "Manchukuo".
General Jiro Minami, retiring Japanese Ambassador to
"Manchukuo" ana conjointly Commander-in-Chief of the Kwan-
tung Army, paid a farewell call on the "Emperor Kangte"
on March 7 preparatory to his withdrawal from "Manchukuo".
General Minami departed for Japan on March 29. General
Kenkichi Ueda, who was appointed Japanese Ambassador to
"Manchukuo" and Commander-in-Chief of the Kwantung Army
on
*
Embassy's telegram No. 74 of March 13, 1936.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
on March 6, 1936, to succeed Minami, presented his
credentials to the "Emperor of Manchukuo" on March 30.
The reason for General Minami's retirement was his formal
assumption of responsibility for the February 26 incident
as the senior General in the Army and as a member of the
Supreme War Council.*
(d). Great Britain.
WE
On March 2 the British Ambassador addressed a letter
to the Minister for Foreign Affairs expressing his pleasure
over the news of the safety of Premier Okada (the con-
dolences of the British Government over the death of the
Premier had been conveyed to Mr. Hirota on February 27).
Sir Robert Clive also expressed his admiration for the
"tact and skill" with which the situation arising on
February 26 had been handled and his appreciation over
the measures which had been taken to protect the British
Embassy.**
On March 14, the Japanese authorities deported Mr.
Gerald Sampson, a British writer who had been arrested
on February 27 on a charge of spreading harmful rumors
during the incident. Upon his arrival in Shanghai on
March 17, he expressed the thought that his trip to Janan's
mandated islands in l934, which had been disapproved of
by Mr. Amau beforehand, may have made him an object of
suspicion.***
(e). Germany.
When asked by foreign correspondents on March 9 to
comment on Germany's unilateral abrogation of the Locarno
Treaty
Embassy's telegram No. 63 of March 7, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1719 of March 6, 1936.
***
Despatch No. 85 of March 19, 1936, from the Consulate
General at Shanghai.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Treaty, the spokesman of the Japanese Foreign Office
stated that Japan had no intention of interfering at
present because the matter was purely a European affair
and Japan had not been approached on the question by any
country.
(f). Ethiopia.
WE
The JAFAN ADVERTISER of March 28 reported that Tomo-
yoshi Sumioka, the Japanese attorney who was the negotiator
in the attempt to arrange a marriage between Miss Masako
Kuroda and Prince Araya of Ethiopia,* had been awarded
the Commander Class of the Order of Menelik II by Emperor
Haile Selassie. In his letter of thanks to the Ethiopian
ruler Mr. Sumioka commended the activities in Japan of
Mr. Ato Daba Biru, the self-styled diplomatic negotiator
for Ethiopia who arrived in this country on September 13,
1935,** and who, according to Sumioka, had been able to
"push negotiations with the Japanese authorities to a
point where agreement on principles" had been reached.
The neture of the "ncgotiations" was not revealed. Mr.
Sumioka also remarked on the good will of the Japanese
people tovard Ethiopia and his own conviction that the
brave army of Ethiopia would defeat its enemy. In addition,
the Japanese attorney addressed a letter to the Ethiopian
Minister for Foreign Affairs urging him to establish a
Legation in Tokyo as soon as possible.
(g). Siam.
An economic mission headed by Mr. Yunosuke Yasukawa,
former Managing Director of the Mitsui interests, left
Tokyo
*
Monthly Report for June, 1933.
Despatch No. 1504 of October 3, 1935.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
Tokyo on March 13 for Sian. According to statements
made by Mr. Yasukawa, the purposes of the mission are
as follows: (1) to return the recent visits of the
Siamese Home Minister and other officials; (2) to study
economic conditions in Siam with a view to increasing
direct imports of Siamese products into Japan, whose
exports to Siam at present creatly exceed imports from
that country. The Chairman of the fission also stated
that after the visit to Siam the members of his party
would be divided into severel sections, which would make
respective trips to various other regions in the South
Seas including the Philippines and the Netherland East
Indies. The ASAHI of March 14 stated that other reasons
for sending the mission were the facts that Siam, "hither-
to ruled by British canital and under Chinese influence",
had sought assistance from Japan end that the Mission
answered the popular demand in Japan for an economic
advance in the South. The JAPAN CHRONICLE of March 15
remarked in connection witn the Mission that after his
recent investigations, Dr. Mihara had expressed the belief
thet Siam could annually proauce 1,000,000 bales of cotton
suitable for Japan's needs.
(h).
International.
(1).
The New Government's Forein Policy.
According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of March 14, on
794.10
the previous day Mr. Hirota, Premier and Minister for
Foreign Affairs, informed the Soviet, French, and American
Ambassadors that the foreign policy of the Japanese Govern-
ment had not undergone any basic change but that changes
in the internal conditions of Japan as well as in the
situation

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
situation in East Asia might cause the Government to be
more positive in its policies and that Japan might act
vigorously in negotiations with foreign Powers who showed
a lack of sincerity by delaying settlement of issues
pending with Japan.* Mr. Hirota's reference to changes
in internal conditions is explained by the Army's dis-
satisfaction with what they term the "weak-kneed" diplo-
matic methods employed before the February 26 incident
in dealing with China and the USSR. The Premier made
similar remarks to foreign newspaper men whomhe enter-
tained at tea in his Official Residence on March 25.
He stated that although there was no change in Japan's
foreign policy the process of adjusting relations with
other countries would be speeded up to meet the criticism
that diplomacy had been conducted with slowness. He
added that this was the meaning of a "positive" foreign
policy and that the meaning of an "independent" foreign
policy was that Japan had no alliances with foreign
countries and would therefore conduct its foreign policy
in an independent manner.
(2).
Count Baillet-Latour's Visit in Con-
nection with Japan's Bid for the 1940
Olympic Games.
Count Baillet-Latour, Chairman of the International
Olympic Games Committee, arrived in Japan on March 19.
Upon his arrival he stated, according to newspaper reports,
that he had come to Japan to survey the possible site for
the Twelfth Olympic Games and that he personally hoped
that the Games would be held in this country. In an
interview with a representative of the JAPAN ADVERTISER
on March 25, Count Baillet-Latour was quoted as having
said
Section II (a) of the present report.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
said that he would present a favorable report on Tokyo
to the International Olympic Games Committee.
(3). Foreigners Suspected of Anti-Japanese
Activities.
The ASAHI of March 13 reported thet the Foreign Office
desired the adoption by the competent authorities of a
firm attitude in dealing with foreigners found engaged
in anti-Japanese activities and that foreigners whose
thoughts and actions were considered dangerous to peace
and order in Japan would be advised by the Japanese con-
sular officers in their respective countries not to come
to Japan.
This newspaper attributed the Foreign Office's
attitude to the recent case of Mr. Gerald Sampson.*
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). Formation of the Hirota Cabinet and its
Statement of Policy.
The Okada Cabinet resigned en bloc on the evening of
19)
February 26 but continued provisionally in office until
March 9 in accordance with the orders of the Emperor.**
The Acting Premier during the first nine days of March was
Admiral Okada whose resignation, submitted to the Emperor
on February 28, was not accepted until the formation of
the Hirota Cabinet on March 9. On March 4 Prince Konoe,
President of the House of Peers, declined the Imperial
Command to form a Cabinet,, alleging ill health as his
reason, and on the followine day Mr. Hirota was given
the same command. On March 6 Mr. Hirota tentatively
chose General Count Juichi Terauchi as Minister for
War and between these two men negotiations took place
from March 6 to March 9. Although the newspapers reported
that the Army was opposed to Mr. Hirota as Premier, the
real
See Section III (d) of this report.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1736 of March 18, 1936.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16 -
real hindrance to him in forming a Cabinet was the
objection that he met with on the part of the Army over
certain individuals chosen for posts in the new Cabinet.
According to the press, the Army objected to Mr. Shigeru
Yoshida as Minister. for Foreign Affairs because of his
well-known liberalism and because of his being a son-in-
law of Count Makino, one of the senior statesmen; to Dr.
Hiroshi Shimomura as Overseas Minister because of his
position as Vice President of the ASAHI, which was con-
sidered to be too capitalistic and which had been attacked
by the mutineers on February 26; to Takukichi Kawasaki
as Minister for Education because he was a political
party man; to retention of Mr. Naoshi Ohara as Justice
Minister because he had not been sincere in efforts to
clarify the national polity; and to Mr. Chikuhei Nakajima
as Commerce and Industry Minister because of his interest
in the manufacture of munitions. The Army authorities,
represented by General Terauchi, agreed to cooperate with
Mir. Hirota in the formation of a new Cabinet if the latter
acceded to the four principal demands of the Army, which
were: (1) clarification of the national polity, i. e.
the complete suppression of the Minobe theory and of
liberalism in Japan; (2) an increase in the Army budget
for the building up of a better air force, for the com-
pletion of the mechanization of the Army, and for the
strengthening of the Japanese forces in "Manchukuo" and
at home; (3) stabilization of the livelihood of the people,
thet is, economic and political reforms, the establishment
of state control of industries and finance, and readjust-
ment of taxation with an increase of taxes on capitalists
and a decrease cn the poorer classes; and (4) the adoption
of a "positive" foreign policy. Although these policies
were

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
- 17 -
were labelled "Army demands" by the press generally, it
should be noted that they were supported by large elements
in and out of Government circles who have no affiliations
with the Army. These elements also were opposed to a
certain extent to the appointment of the men to whom the
Army is reported to have objected. Mr. Hirota finally
succeeded in choosing a Cabinet acceptable to the Army.*
Apparently the only point on which he resisted the demands
of the Army was his insistence that the political parties
be substantially represented in the Cabinet. He was
formally installed as Premier by the Emperor on the evening
of March 9 and the complete Cabinet was announced in an
Official Gazette extra of that day as follows: Prime
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Koki Hirota;
Minister for Home Affairs and concurrently Minister for
Education, Shigenosuke Ushio; Minister for Finance, Eiichi
Baba; Minister for War and President of the Manchurian
Affairs Bureau, General Count Juichi Terauchi; Navy Minister,
Admiral Osami Nagano; Justice Minister, Raisaburo Hayashi;
Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Toshio Shimada;
Minister for Commerce and Industry, Takukichi Kawasaki;
Communications Minister, Keikichi Tanomogi; Railways
Minister, Yonezo Maeda; and Overseas Minister, Hidejiro
Nagata. Ushio, a member of the House of Peers, had held
a number of important positions in the Home Ministry and
had the reputation of being a very capable administrator.
Baba, a well-known banker and for several years President
of the Hypothec Bank, had no decided affiliations with
any political or financial group and was well versed in
the
* Embassy's despatch No. 1736 of March 18, 193s.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
the agricultural land situation. General Terauchi was
popular in Army circles and had the reputation of having
affiliations with no Army faction and with none of the
political parties. Nagano was known for being a highly
capable naval officer, a direct and patriotic negotiator
(he was one of the two delegates to the London Naval
Conference which opened in December, 1935), and a man of
independent leanings from the political point of view.
Hayashi had had a distinguished career in the Ministry
of Justice.* The remaining members of the Cabinet had
not had outstanding careers and were chosen for their
respective posts largely for reasons of expediency and
compromise. The Minseito appointees to the new Cabinet
were Commerce and Industry Minister Kawasaki and Communi-
cations Minister Tanomogi, while the Seiyukai appointees
were Railways Minister Maeda and Minister of Agriculture
and Forestry Shimada. Mr. Hachiro Arita, recently appointed
Ambassador to China, was prominently mentioned by the news-
papers as Mr. Hirota's probable choice for Minister for
Foreign Affairs.
The statement of policy issued by Premier Hirota on
March 17 contained in essence the four basic demands of
the Army which were listed above.**
Furthermore, the statement of policy clearly reflects
the views of the February 26 insurrectionists because
these views were also held by a very considerable part
of the Army and by a large part of the population. The
fundamental desire of the insurgents was a change in the
political status quo. This was brought about.***
Several
of
*
Embassy's telegram No. 65 of March 9, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1733 of March 19, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 1735 of March 19, 1936.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-19 -
of the aims of the rebel officers were accomplished and
others appeared definitely to be a part of the new Govern-
ment's program. At the end of the month it could be safely
predicted that the new Government would be more national-
istic than previous Governments, that it would endeavor
to effect many of the economic, political, and social
reforms so eagerly desired by the February 26 mutineers
and by a large part of the Army, and that on the other
hand, no hasty or radical reforms would be adopted.*
Mr. Takukichi Kawasaki, the Minister for Commerce and
Industry, a member of the Minseito and the only hold -over
besides Mr. Hirota in the new Government, died on March 27
and was succeeded by Dr. Gotaro Ogawa, one of the leaders
of the Minseito, a member of the Diet, and Parliamentary
Vice Minister in the Hamaguchi Cabinet. The post of
Education Minister, which had been held concurrently by
Mr. Ushio, Home Minister, was taken over on March 25 by
Dr. Hachisaburo Hirao, a Member of the House of Peers,
President of the Kavasaki Dockyards, and the Chairman of
the Japanese Economic Mission which went to Brazil last year.
Count Yasuya Uchida, who had five times held the
portfolio of Minister for Foreign Affairs and had also
been President of the South Manchuria Railway, died in
Tokyo on March 12 at the age of 71. As Minister for
Foreign Affairs he was known for his chauvinist tendencies.
(b).
Consequences of the February 26 Incident in
their Relation to the Army.
Almost normal conditions prevailed in Tokyo on the
afternoon of March 1, the insurgent movement having been
suppressed on the day before. On March 1 the Cabinet
announced
Embassy's despatch No. 1733 of March 19, 1936.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
announced that Imperial Sanction had been obtained for
depriving the younger officers involved in the February 26
revolt of their Court ranks and medals and on the same day
the Martial Law Headquarters announced that these officers
had been expelled from the Army on February 29, that the
non-commissioned officers and enlisted men who had sur-
rendered had been confined to their barracks, and that
the majority of the officers who had participated in the
revolt had been put in prison, together with the ex-officers
Koji Muranaka, Isaichi Isobe, and Zensuke Isobe.* It will
be recalled that the three above-mentioned ex-officers had
been closely connected with the trial of Lieutenant Colonel
Aizawa.** On March 3 General Senjuro Hayashi called on the
War Minister, General Kawashima, and handed in the resigna-
tions of himself and the following members of the Supreme
War Council, all of whom assumed responsibility for the
incident: General Nobuyuki Abe, General Jinsaburo Masaki,
General Baron Sadao Araki, General Kenkichi Ueda, General
Giichi Nishi, and General Juichi Ueda. General Giichi Nishi,
a member of the Supreme War Council, was on March 4 appointed
to the important post of Inspector General of Military
Education to succeed General Jotaro Watanabe, who had been
assassinated on February 26. General Kenkichi Ueda was
appointed Ambassador to "Manchukuo" and Commander-in-Chief
of the Kwantung Army on March 6 to succeed General Minami.
Of the 1,360 enlisted men who took part in the military
revolt and were subsequently detained for examination in
barracks, more than 1,320 had been released by March 19.
Twenty
Embassy's despatch No. 1721 of March 6, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1707 of March 5, 1936.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
- 21 -
Twenty odd guilty officers were still under arrest at the
close of the month. Three of the rebel officers committed
suicide shortly after the incident.* An officer of the
Japanese General Staff informed the Military Attaché on
March 7 that more suicides by the insurgent officers were
expected later but that for the moment the officers under
investigation by the Military Police were prevented from
taking their own lives.
Details of the Army's demand for increased funds, which
was made as a condition for the Army's assent to the forma-
tion of the Hirota Cabinet, were not fully known at the end
of the month. However, Nippon Dempo reported that the Army
had asked for additional budget appropriations of about
¥2,000,000,000 to be spent from 1937 to 1942 and that this
money would be used for the expansion of the air force, for
the completion of the mechanization of the Army, for the
addition of several divisions to the Army, and for arrange-
ments to mobilize industries in war times. This news agency
further stated that the funds for the Army's program would
be obtained by the issuance of additional "red ink" bonds
and by an increase in taxation.** The press reported that
a consideratle increase in the Army's budget would take
place and some newspapers stated that the Army would
probably demand that funds be appropriated for the carrying
out of its program in a shorter space of time than five years.
It was reported by the JAPAN TIMES of March 26 that the
Japanese military authorities had decided to establish
additional aviation bases during the present year at
Shikaya, at Yokohama, at Kisaragu, and at Chinkai (in
Chosen).
It
*
Embassy's telegram No. 63 of March 7, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1733 of March 19, 1936.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-22 -
It was reported by the press during the month that
Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa, whose trial for the murder of
General Nagata on January 28, 1936, had been suspended
on February 26, would have to be completely retried in
accordance with the provisions of the Court Martial Law
and that no date for the retrial had been set. According
to information received by the Military Attaché from an
official of the War Office, the trial of the officers and
civilians involved in the February 26 incident will be
different from the Aizawa trial and from the trial of the
persons connected with the assassination of Premier Inukai
on May 15, 1932, in the following respects: the accused
will not have the benefit of counsel, no appeal will be
allowed on the decisions reached, and more emphasis will
be placed on establishing euilt and punishment with less
opportunity for the exposition of the political views of
the persons under trial.*
On March 26 the prefectural Governors were summoned
to Tokyo to receive instructions from the new Cabinet.
General Terauchi, Minister for War, made an address at
this meeting in which he asked the Government to cooperate
with the militery in eradicating the growing tendency
among the people to question their duty as regards con-
scription and support of the Army at all times; asked
for the "suppression of criticisms" which tended to
estrange the civilian population from the Army, such as
the rumor that the February 26 insurgents had been supported
by high Army officers or even by the whole Army; and
requested the local officials to cooperate with the Army
in
* Embassy's despatch No. 1746 of March 20, 1936.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
- 23 -
in eliminating the lawless elements which were exhorting
the younger officers to direct action and also in
suppressing the "mysterious documents" which added to the
unrest in the Army.* (An example of these mysterious
documents was the secret pamphlet issued by Captains
Muranaka and Isobe in the sumner of 1935, in which they
defended General Masaki, Inspector General of Education,
who had been dismissed on July 16, 1935, and accused
General Nagata of being connected with the capitalists
and of being a spy for the senior statesmen.**)
The War Office announced extensive shifts in the
higher positions in the Army following the resignations,
referred to above, of Generals Hayashi, Masaki, Abe,
Araki, and Kawashima. It would appear that the purpose
of the shifts was to allow the hiher officers to show
their formal responsibility for the February 26 incident
by either being transferred to other posts or being retired
from the Army and also to freshen the atmosphere in the
Army. Among the changes made, Lieutenant General Hajime
Sugiyama, Vice Chief of the General Staff, Lieutenant
General Moto-o Furusho, Vice Minister for War, and Major
General Kiyoshi Imamura, Chief of the Military Affairs
Bureau, were transferred to other posts, and Lieutenant
General Toranosuke iashimoto, Commander of the Imperial
Bodyguard Division, was placed on the "waiting list" as
having been formally responsible for the February 26
incident. The posts of Vice Chief of the General Staff,
Vice Minister for War, and Chief of the Military Affairs
Bureau were filled by officers who had rendered meritorious
service
Embassy's despatch No. 1759 of April 1, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1707 of March 5, 1936.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
- 24 -
service in "Manchukuo" or North China; Lieutenant General
Hisazo Nishio, former Chief of Staff of the Kwantung Army,
was appointed Vice Chief of the General Staff; Lieutenant
General Yoshijiro Umezu, at one time Commander of the
North China garrison, was made Vice Minister for War;
and Major General Rensuke Isogai, formerly Military Attaché
to the Japanese Embassy in China, was chosen to be the
Chief of the Military Affairs Bureau. General Shigeru
Honjo resigned as Chief Aide-de-Camp and Lieutenant General
Okiie Usami was appointed to succeed him. It is understood
that the promotion of Usami was made over the heads of
many other Lieutenant Generals, his seniors in service,
and that the reason for this choice was to put new blood
into this high command.
Martial law was in effect throughout the month.
(c). The Throne.
Mr. Kurakei Yuasa, Minister of the Imperial Household,
resigned from that post and was appointed Lord Keeper of
the Privy Seal on March 6 to succeed Viscount Admiral
Saito, a victim of the incident. Mr. Yuasa was replaced
as Minister of the Imperial Household by Mr. Tsuneo
Matsudaira, former Ambassador to Great Britain, on March 6.
Baron Kiichiro Hiranuma, Vice President of the Privy Council
and well-known for his chauvinism, was appointed President
of the Privy Council on March 13, 1936, to succeed Baron
Ikki, who had resigned several days previously, alleging
ill health as the reason. It may be remarked that Baron
Ikki is advanced in years, that he had been severely
criticized for the past year because of his alleged
sympathy with the Minobe theory, and that he was one of
the liberal leaders disliked by a large part of the Army.
These

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
- 25 -
These may perhaps have been contributory causes of his
desire to resign.
The JAPAN TIMES of March 20 reported that Admiral
Kantaro Suzuki, Court Chamberlain, who was badly wounded
by the February 26 assassins, had expressed to Imperial
Household Minister Tsuneo Matsudaira his wish to resign
from his post. According to this newspaper, the reason
given by Admiral Suzuki for the desired resignation was
that anyone who had been attacked, whatever the cause,
should not remain in such an important position.
Embassy is unaware of Admiral Suzuki's real intentions
regarding his position of Court Chamberlain.
(a). The Navy.
In order to assist the Cabinet in formulating its
major policies, on March l2 the Navy Minister presented
a memorandum for national reform to Finance Minister Baba,
Chairman of the Policy Drafting Committee of the Cabinet.
The memorandum contained the following points: although
by no means opposed to parliamentary government and not
desirous of the establishment of a military régime, the
Navy maintains that political parties should be purified
and that the accumulated evils of the past should be
removed; the Navy hopes for a new financial program
commensurate with the present advanced state of Japan,
including the finding of new sources of revenue to meet
increasing defense expenditures; Japan must augment its
defense to cope with the international relations that
will arise after the expiration of the naval treaties at
the end of the year l936; foreign policy must be consolidated
under

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
- 26 -
under the official control of the Government and every
care must be used to avoid lack of coordination between
the Foreign Office and the authorities stationed abroad.
According to tne OSAKA MAINICHI of March 2O the Navy
desires a strengthening of national defense all along
the line and a peaceful advance southward.
(e). Folitical Parties.
Statements were issued on March 27 by the Seiyukai,
the Minseito, and the House of Peers, all of which endorsed
the intentions of the Government as set forth in the
addresses made on March 26 by the Premier and the Finance,
War, Justice, and Home Ministers at the conference of
prefectural governors. All three statements, however,
pointed out that actions were more important than words.
the KOKUMIN DOMEI and the Social Mass Party condemned the
addresses of the Cabinet members as vague and lacking in
promise, the former stating that Premier Hirota did not
know even today the real causes of the "current emergency"
and the latter emphasizing that the speeches contained no
prospect of policies that would further the interests of
the masses.
(f). The Diet.
An Imperial Rescript in the Official Gazette of
March 20 ordered the convocation of the Imperial Diet on
May 1 of this year for a session of twenty-one days.
The press reported that a fundamental reform of the
House of Peers was being advocated by its President,
Prince Konoe, and by Prince Sanetake Ichijo, Marquess
Yukitada Sasaki, and Baron Yoshiro Sakatani. According
to reports, the plan of reform proposed by Prince Konoe
includes the abolition of the heredity seats held by
Princes

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
- 27 -
Princes and Marquesses in the Upper House; a reduction
of the number of Counts, Viscounts, and Barons who are
members; revision of the system of membership by the
highest tax payers, members of the Imperial Academy and
Crown appointees; and elimination of the influence of
political parties in the House of Peers. It was stated
that an improvement in the system and operation of the
House of Peers was necessary for the execution of the
Hirota Cabinet's proposed reform of the administrative
system.
(g). Chauvinists.
According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of March 28, seventy
military, naval, political, and business leaders met on
the previous day and organized a new "cultural society",
the object of which will be to apply to the present emergency
situation the spirit of the Kenmu Restoration, which means
the restoration of the Emperor's powers in 1334-1335. The
leaders of this project include such noted chauvinists as
Generals Araki and Masaki and Mr. Mitsuru Toyama and also
men of more liberal leanings, such as General Senjuro
Hayashi and Prince Konoe.
The OSAKA MAINICHI of March 28 reported that Mr.
Kiyoshi Akita, former Speaker of the House of Representatives,
had decided to organize a political club of rightist
character with enough Diet members to become an influential
body in the Diet. Mr. Akita was said to have started
negotiations with members of the Kokumin Domei, the Tobokai
(Far Eastern Policy Association), the Meirinkai (Club for
the Fulfillment of the Imperial Spirit), and the Kodokai
(Club for the Promotion of the Imperial Way).
(h). The Press.
The Minister for Communications announced to the Cabinet
on

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
-28 -
on March 31 that Nippon Dempo had given its assent to
amalgamate with Domei Tsushinsha.* The purpose of the
merger of the two news agencies was the unification of
all news agencies under rigid Government control in order
that only the strictly patriotic point of view might be
presented to other countries.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Most of the bills reported by the press to have been
drafted by the various Ministries and submitted to the
Le
Cabinet for consideration were described in such general
and nebulous terms that their true nature could not be
ascertained. Among the more important bills said to have,
been drafted are the following: bills for the control by
the Government of the electric, iron, steel, coal, sugar,
gas, and fertilizer industries; a bill for the establish-
ment of a semi-governmental company for the liquefication
of coal; a bill providing for the adoption of positive
measures for the refinancinE of farm debts; a bill for the
maintenance of peace and order, with particular emphasis
on the prevention of the circulation of secret or sub-
versive publications; a bill for partial revision of the
income tax law. These bills indicate the beginning of a
reform movement in the present financial and economic
structure.**
V.
GOVERNMENT FIANCE.
It appeared from newspaper reports and from other
494.51
information obtained by the Embassy during the month that
the Finance Ministry was planning an increase in revenues
through
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1756 of April 1, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1758 of April 1, 1936.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
-29 -
through a raise in taxation, improvement and expansion
of national defense, resuscitation of farm economy, con-
tiruation of the issuance of "red ink" bonds, equalization
of the tax burden, enforcement of a policy of low money
rates, and, in general, an increase in national disburse-
ments. These plans were set forth on March 9 in a statement
issued by Mr. Baba, the Finance Minister, who admitted that
his ideas differed considerably from the policies of the
previous Cabinet. Mr. Baba mede it clear, however, that
the chanes contemplated would be brought about gradually
and that no radical alteration would be made, for the
reason that any sudden or violent alteration of the
financial policy might invite chaos. According to Domei,
in a supplementary statement issued on March 10, the
Finance Minister emphasized the marked progress that was
being made in Japan's industry and trade but at the same
time remarked that he was not protecting the interests of
the magnates or neglecting the problem of the tax burden.
In a conversation with the Embassy's Commercial
Attaché on April 24, Mr. Takeo Kawagoe, the Vice Minister
for Finance, stated that he was afraid that some people in
the United States had gained the impression that the
February 26 incident was a sort of revolution; that this
idea was not correct, since the real cause of the disturb-
ance was the long-existing defects in Government policies
relating to industry and finance and since the purpose of
the insurrection was to bring about much-needed reforms;
that the present Government realized the need of such
reforms but expected to bring them about gradually. Mr.
Kawagoe indicated that general Government expenditures
would be increased and added that some form of increased
taxation

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
- 30 -
taxation would be put into effect, that if possible red
ink bonds would be reduced, but that it would be impossible
to stop the issuance of such bonds and at the same time
provide funds for national defense and for the relief of
farmers. The Vice Minister for Finance further stated
that the foreign exchange policy of the late Mr. Takahashi
would be followed by the present régime, namely, the main-
tenance of the yen-dollar rate at around 0.28 to $0.30.
The Minister for Finance made a speech before the Pre-
fectural Governors on March 26 in which he reiterated the
ideas already expressed by him in his statements of March 9
and 10.* All in all, it may be said that the statements
that
mentioned above indicate the new Government plans definitely
to depart from the Takahashi financial policy by gradual
steps.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a). Foreign Trade.
Japan's exports for March amounted to ¥215,473,000
and its imports were ¥276,019,000, as compared with February
exports of ¥208,420,000 and imports of ¥283,305,000. These
figures represented an unfavorable balance of trade of
¥50,546,000 as against an unfavorable balance for February
of ¥74,885,000.**
(b). Financial Trends.
The stock and bond markets were weak owing to the
prevailing uncertainty over the new Government's future
financial and economic policy. The average yen selling
rate was $0.2895, i. e., slightly lower than the average
rate for February of 0.290l.**
(c).
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1758 of April 1, 1936.
**
Information obtained from Commercial Attaché.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
-31-
(c). Shipping.
The JAPAN ADVERTISER of March 27 reported that, in
accordance with a decision already reached by him,* Mr.
Koichiro Ishihara, President of the Ishihara Industry and
Marine Transport Company, had founded the Nanyo Koro Kaisha
(South Seas Service Company Limited) with a capitalization
of ¥2,000,000, and that the new company would maintain a
bi-weekly steamship service between Japan and the South
Seas, including Singapore and the Netherland East Indies.
As reported in the Embassy's political report for February
it is understood that the new steamship company will
attempt to compete with both the Java-China-Japan Line
and the Nanyo Kaiyun Kaisha (South Seas Marine Transport
Company).
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMI.ERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
Dx.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION.
Nothing to report.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS.
According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of March 14,
Onisaburo Deguchi, "Grand Master", and seven other leaders
of the Omotokyo (Great Basic Cult) were formally indicted
on the day before on charges of either lèse majesté or
viol ation of the Peace Preservation Law. In a statement
issued on the same day by the Justice Ministry, it was
asserted that these persons had been arrested and indicted
for the reason that their cult contained principles which
ran counter to the national polity.
*
See monthly report for February, Section VI, (c).

=== Page 25 === (confidence 1.00)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING MARCH, 1936
No.
Date
Subject
1703
March 2
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES, 1921.
1704
March 2
Diplomatic Visa Report.
1705
March 7
Requisition for Carbon Paper.
1706
March 5
The Diet Election of February 20, 1936, and
its Bearing on the Uprising of February 26.
1707 March 5
Trial of Lieutenant-Colonel Saburo Aizawa
and its Political Significance.
1708 March 4
Advance from Civil Service Retirement Fund
made to Miss Virginia W. Collins.
1709
March 5
Bond and Oaths of Office of Mr. William E. Yuni.
1710
March 5
Bond and Oaths of Office of Mr. Max W. Schmidt.
1711
March 5
Bona and Oaths of Office of Mr. D.K. Caldwell.
1712
March 5
Bond and Oaths of Office of Mr. U. A. Johnson.
1713
March 5
Bond and Oaths of Office of Mr. B. R. Johansen.
1714
March 5
Bond and Oaths of Office of Mr. J. K. Emmerson.
1715
March 5
Bona and Oaths of Office of Mr. W.G. Richardson.
1716
March 4
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
1717
March 6
International Code of Signals (Rumanian Pilot
Jack).
1718
March 6
An Analysis of the Causes Leading to the
Incident of February 26, 1936.
1719 March 6
Messages of Condolence on Recent Assassinations
in Tokyo.
1720
March 6
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
1721
March 6
Chronicle of the Events of the February 26,
1936, Uprisin, T.rough Noon of March 6, 1936.
1722
March 6
Return of Cipher Tables.
1723
March 6
American Oil Interests in Japan.
1724
March 7
Income Tax of Mr. I. Spencer May.
1725
March 7
Repair of Government Owned Buildings.
1726
March 11
Sealskins Apportioned to the American Govern-
ment.
1727 March 12
Accounts: Extraordinary Telegraph Expenditures.
1728

=== Page 26 === (confidence 1.00)
- 2 -
Date
Subject
1728
March 13
Diplomatic Visa Report.
1729
March 13
Inspection of Animal Meat, Sausage Filling
and Sausage Casings.
1730 March 17
Smuggling of Narcotics - TACHIBANA MARU Case
1731
March 17
Interpretation and Trend of British Policy.
1732
March 17
Smuggling of Narcotics - TATSUTA MARU Case.
1733
March 19
Policy of the Hirota Cabinet.
1734
March 18
Discrimination Acainst American Automotive
Trucks.
1735 March 19
An Analysis of the Measure of Success
Achieved by the February 26 Insurgents.
1736
March 18
Formation of the Hirota Cabinet.
1737
March 19
Monthly Political Report.
1738
March 19
Publication of Certain Documents in FOREIGN
RELATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES, 1922.
1739
March 19
Emergency Repairs to Embassy Buildings.
1740
March 18
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
1741
March 18
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
1742
March 19
Exchange of Publications between the
Governments of the United States and Japan.
1743
March 19
Accounts: Repairs to Furniture and Fixtures.
1744
March 19
Bond and Oath of Office of Mr. Crocker.
1745
March 20
Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
1746
March 20
Trial of Lieutenant Colonel Aizawa and its
Connection with the February 26 Incident.
1747
March 20
American Oil Interests in Japan.
1748
March 20
Bond and Oath of Office of Mr. Dickover.
1749
March 27
Chinese American Bank of Commerce versus
Anglo and London Paris National Bank.
1750
March 28
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
1751
March 28
Completion of the U. S. S. PHELPS.
1752
March 28
Japanese Buaget for 1936-37 Fiscal Year.
1753
March 30
Alleged German-Japanese Military Agreement.
1754
March 31
Mint Interrogatories for 1935.
1755
March 31
Soviet-Japanese Relations.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTLENT
DURING MARCH, 1936.
No.
Date
Subject
52
March 1, 6 p. m.
February 26 Incident.
53
March 2, noon
Formation of New Cabinet.
54
March 2, 5 p. m.
Financial Conditions in Japan.
55
March 3, 6 p. m.
Assignment of Plain Clothes Men to
Members of Embassy Staff.
56
March 4, noon
Formation of New Cabinet.
57
March 4, 1 p. m.
Reporting of the February 2s Incident.
58
March 4, 5 p. m.
Formation of New Cabinet.
59
March 4, 10 p. m.
Formation of New Cabinet.
60
March 5, 6 p. m.
Formation of New Cabinet.
61
March 6, 9 p. m.
Formation of New Cabinet.
62
March 7, 10 a. m.
Letters Rogatory in re Chinese
American Bank of Commerce, etc.
63
March 7, 9 p. m.
February 26 Incident.
64
March 9, 5 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japan.
65
March 9, 10 p. m.
Formation of New Cabinet.
66
March 9, 11 p. m.
February 26 Incidont.
67
March 10, 10 a. m.
Apartment for Coleman.
68
March 10, 3 p. m.
Requisition for Funds.
69
March 13, 10 a. m.
Narcotics Seizures.
70
March 13, 11 a. m.
Commercial Attaché Reports.
71
March 13, noon
Receipt of Cipher Table.
72
March 13, 1 p. m.
Receipt of Cipher Tables.
73
March 13, 4 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japan.
74
March 13, 7 p. m.
Interview with Premier Hirota.
75
March 18, 11 a. m.
Cabinet's Statement of Policy.
76
March 18, noon
Information that Arita will be made
Forcign Minister.
77
March 20, 8 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japan.
78

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Date
Subject
78
March 23, 7 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japan.
79
March 27, noon
Letters Rogatory in re Chinese
American Bank of Commerce, etc.
80
March 28, 11 a. m. Visit of the U. S. S. AUGUSTA.
81
March 30, 6 p. m.
Soviet-Japanese Border Difficulties.
82
March 31, 5 p. m.
Salnon Fishing in Alaskan Waters.
83
March 31, 6 p. m.
Visit to United States of Ramos,
Sakdalista Leader.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISIIN OF
1936
JUN 2 1 036
NATANAMERICRAFFAIRS
DEPART
ESTATE
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
10,11,
T:
THE MONTH OF APRIL, 1956.
CR
For Di-triburion-Check
Yea
No
Grade
For
In USA
FILE- WHB
DEPART
ASSISTANT SECRETALY
894.00
niD
Geasits t. Commence and
COPIES SENT TO
Treasncy as indicated.
A-C/C
FO.N.I. AND M.I. D.
JUN 1 7 1936
P.R./101
l.v
Division r
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
JUN 3-1936
The Secretary of State,
partment of State
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
JUN 27 1936
1/
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions
FILED
in Japan for the month of April, 1936.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew
GDA:0/m
800
Enclosure!
1/ Report No. 115
Copy to Eabassy, Peiping
Embassy, Moscow
Shanghai
Consulate Geseral,

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
NO. 115
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF APRIL, 1936

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a) American Oil Interests.
(b)
 Exchange of Good-Will Messages between
Certain American Citizens and the
Premier of Japan.
1,2
(c)
Problem of Land Leases Held by Japanese
in Davao Province, Philippine Islands... 2, 3
(a)
Japanese Delegation to the Sixth Con-
ference of the Institute of Pacific
Relations to be Held at Yosemite, Cali-
3,4
(e) Visit to Japan of Philippine Assembly-
men and Journalists
(f)
Visit to Japan of Veterans of Foreign
Wars of the United States.
5
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) Soviet Russia.
5, 6, 7
(b)
China.
7,8,9
(c)
"Manchukuo".
9
(a)
Turkey.
9
(e)
Belgium.
9
(f)
Great Britain.
10
(ε)
Germany.
10
(h)
Brazil.
10, 11
(i)
Ethiopia.
11
(J)
Australia.
11, 12
(k)
The Dominican Republic.
12
(1)
Siam.
12
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a) The Cabinet.
13, 14
(b)
The Army.
15
(c)
The Navy.
15, 16
(a)
Political Parties.
16, 17
(e)

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
(e)
The Diet..
17, 18
(r)
Reactionaries.....
18
(g)
The Throne.
18
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
18
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
19
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANC IAL CONDITIONS:
(a)
Foreign Trade..
19, 20
(b)
Industries.....
20
(c)
Aviation.
20, 21
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
Ix.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
Nothing to report.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS :
Nothing to report.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 1.00)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). American Oil Interests.
In reply to the proposal made in March by the
American and British oil interests that a contractual
894.6363
arrangement of sorts be made between the foreign oil
companies and the Mitsui interests so as to avoid the
necessity of storage of non-commercial stocks by the
foreign firms, the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha (Mitsui Products
Company) told representatives of the foreign firms that
if the oil companies intended to utilize Mitsui simply
as a storage or warehousing medium the Japanese company
was definitely not interested in the proposal for the
reason that Mitsui Bussan Kaisha was organized for trade
purposes. However, the Mitsui representatives expressed
a willingness to consider a broader arrangement which
would involve trading on their part and requested that
the oil companies make a definite proposal. Mr. Yoshino,
the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, implied in
a conversation with representatives of the foreign oil
interests on April 24 that Mitsui might be more willing
to negotiate if the Japanese Government expressed a wish
that some agreement be reached but added that it would
first be necessary for the oil companies to draw up a
definite proposal for the approval of the Japanese Govern-
ment.*
(b).
Exchange of Good Will Messages between
Certain American Citizens and the Premier
of Japan.
711.94
Twenty-seven American citizens addressed a cable
message to Premier Hirota on April 14 in which they
expressed their hope for the inauguration of a "new era"
in
* Embassy's despatch No. 1800 of May 1, 1936.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
in Japanese-American relations and the wish to depart
from the tradition of provocative statements. The signers
of the message included Dean Carl W. Ackerman of Columbia
University's School of Journalism; Bishop William T. Manning,
of the Episcopal Diocese of New York; Mr. James W. Gerard,
former American Ambassador to Germany; Mr. Grove Patterson,
President of the American Society of Newspaper Editors;
Mr. William Allen White, publisher and editor of the
EMPORIA GAZETTE; Mr. Clark Howell, publisher of the ATLANTA
CONSTITUTION; and Mr. Frank A. Vanderlip, former Assistant
Secretary of the Treasury. On April 17 Premier Hirota
sent a cable to Dean Ackerman expressing his thanks for
the communication from the American citizens, stating that
the Japanese people shared the desire for the inauguration
of a new era of American-Japanese relations, and pledging
his own earnest efforts on behalf of the Japanese people
to improve these relations. There was little editorial
comment on the exchange of messages. However, the JAPAN
ADVERTISER of April 19 remarked that presumably the state-
ment sent by the group of Americans had been inspired by
Premier Hirota's recent statement to foreign correspondents
that there would be no war while he was Premier and the
JAPAN TIMES of April 16 expressed gratification over the
desire of the Americans, who represented "the leaders of
the nation".
(c).
Problem of Land Leases Held by Japanese in
Davao Province, Philippine Islands.
A certain amount of space was given by the newspapers
to the question of possible cancellation by the Philippine
Commonwealth Government of the leases on land held by
Japanese residents of Davao Province on the ground that
such

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
such leases were held illegally. On April 13 the Foreign
Ofrice spokesman stated that he hoped that the Philippine
Commonwealth Government would recognize the vested interests
and rights of the Japanese residents, adding that the
investments of the Japanese had proved beneficial to the
Philippine Islands as a whole. Mr. Kiyoshi Uchiyama,
Japanese Consul General at Manila, was reported by certain
Philippine newspapers to have warned President Quezon of
the "grave consequences" that might follow should the
pending land problem be dealt with inadequately. According
to a Domei despatch from Manila dated April 16, Mr. Uchi-
yama emphatically denied to the press that he had made
any such warning and added that in his recent interview
with President uezon he had expressed the desire that
the problem would be solved amicably in view of the growing
friendship between Japan and the Philippine Commonwealth.
Such Japanese newspaper comment as appeared deplored the
probable effect of the controversy on Philippine-Japanese
relations and expatiated on the contributions made to the
prosperity of Davao Province by Japanese timbermen and
hemp-growers during the past thirty years.
(a).
Japanese Delegation to the Sixth Conference
of the Institute of Pacific Relations to be
Held at Yosemite, California.
It will be recalled that in March Mr. Horinouchi,
then Chief of the American Affeirs Bureau of the Foreign
Office, denied press reports of a proposed good will mission
to the United States and stated that there would naturally
be Japanese delegates, with no official capacity, at the
meeting of the Institute of Pacific Relations to be held
at Yosemite, California. The OSAKA MAINICHI of April 26
reported

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
reported that the Japanese delegation to the conference
of the Institute of Pacific Relations to be held from
August 15 to August 29 would comprise the following men:
Mr. Kenkichi Yoshizawa, former Minister for Foreign Affairs
Dr. Tadao Yamakawa, former President of Tokyo Imperial
University and at present Vice President of the Nippon
Kokusai Kyokai (Japan International Association); Lieu-
tenant General Rihachiro Banzai, an authority on Chinese
affairs; and Professor Hiroshi Nasui, of Tokyo Imperial
University.
(e).
. Visit to Japan of Philippine Assemblymen
and Journalists.
For the avowed purpose of seeking a better knowledge
and understanding of Japan, a party of three Philippine
Assemblymen and another party of eicht Philippine journalists
visited Janan during the month under review, arriving at
Kobe on April 6. One of the Assemblymen, Mr. Manuel
Alzate, stated in a press interview on April 17 that he
and his fellow Assemblymen wanted to study economic and
educational conditions in Janan and that they also hoped
to bring about mutual understanding and Eood will between
Japan and the Philippine Government.
At a dinner civen in honor of the visiting Philippine
newspapermen on April 18 by the Foreign Office spokesman,
the latter stated that the inauguration of the Philippine
Commonwealth Government in November, 1935, had been a
cause for great rejoicement on the part of the Japanese
people and that the present was the time to set to work
earnestly for the promotion and perpetuation of the
friendly relations that had existed between Japan and the
Philippines for centuries past.
(f).

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
(f). Visit to Japan of Veterans of Foreign Wars
Veteraus
of the United States.
43
Wars
Representatives of the Veterans of Foreign Wars of
the United States, headed by Commander-in-Chief James E.
Van Zandt, arrived at Yokohama on April 21 and were
extensively entertained during the succeeding week. This
unofficial delegation came to Japan on the invitation of
the Japan Ex-servicemen's Association, members of which
were the guests of honor at the annual convention of the
Veterans of Foreign Wars held at New Orleans in the autumn
of 1935. Among the functions attended by the visiting
delegation during the month were a dinner given by the
Japan Ex-servicemen's Association on April 25, a reception
given jointly by the Tokyo Prefecture and the Tokyo Muni-
cipality on April 26, an afternoon reception at the
American Embassy on April 27, a luncheon given by the
America-Japan Society at which the Ambassador spoke, a
dinner given by the American Military and Naval Attachés
on April 28; and a military review on April 29. The
editorial comment in general was decidedly favorable
toward the visit of the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the
statements given to the press by Mr. Van Zandt were well
received.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
EE
(a). Soviet Russia.
Soviet-Japanese relations during the month followed
761.94
the usual course, with border clashes, protests and counter.
protests, arguments from both sides concerning the settling
of border disputes and the establishment of a border com-
mission, mutual mistrust, and statements by both the Soviet
Russians and the Japanese to the effect that while the
situation

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
EE
situation was serious there should be no anxiety over
the question of war between the two countries. According
to news despatches from China, the Japanese Consul General
at Nanking called on the Chinese Minister for Foreign
Affairs on April 1 and stated that Japan could not remain
indifferent to the recently signed Soviet-Outer Mongolian
treaty, to which the Chinese official replied that his
country was as powerless to resist Russia by force as it
was to resist Japanese occupation of Manchuria. The first
serious incident of the month occurred on April 9 at
Suifenho on the Soviet-"Manchukuoan" border when, according
to reports, a Japanese lieutenant was killed and five
Japanese soldiers were missing as a result of a skirmish
between small detachments of Soviet and Japanese soldiers.
The "Manchukuoan" Foreign Office filed a protest with the
Soviet Government through the latter's Consul General at
Harbin and Ambassador Ota also protested on behalf of the
Japanese Government to the Soviet Foreign Office against
the alleged invasion of "Manchukuo's" territory.
The
Soviet Vice Commissar for Foreign Affairs was said to have
replied that the Japanese soldiers had invaded Soviet
territory and had started the fighting. A second clash
took place on April ll near Huilin on an island in the
Ussuri River between twenty Japanese and fifty Soviet
soldiers, according to the Japanese version. No progress
was made toward concluding a new treaty to regulate fishing
in northern Japanese and Soviet waters to take effect
after the expiration of the present treaty on May 27.
However, both the Soviet and Japanese newspapers professed
optimism over the chances of reaching at least a temporary
agreement

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
agreement before the date of the treaty's expiration.
Mr. Arita, the Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs,
told foreign press correspondents on April 25 that he
did not believe that the alarming rumors concerning the
"Manchukuoan" border situation would lead to war but that
it would be helpful if the USSR would decrease its border
armaments. In reply to questions, Mr. Arita also said
that Japan did not think that the time had yet arrived
for the conclusion of the non-aggression pact which the
USSR had asked for some time ago.
In conclusion, it may be said that the "independent
and positive foreign policy" of the new Japanese Cabinet
appeared at the end of the month to have made no very great
progress in settling outstanding Soviet-Japanese issues.*
(b). China.
There seemed to be some uncertainty during the month
as to whether Mr. Hirota's three-point policy toward China**
would be carried out in the near future by Mr. Arita,
former Minister to China, who was appointed Minister for
Foreign Affairs on April 2. For example, a Domei despatch
from Nanking dated April 4 renorted that Mr. Arita had been
induced by the Chinese to give up the three-point policy
and the OSAKA MAIINICHI of April 10 stated that the Minister
for Foreign Affairs had decided to relinquish this policy
in favor of the following program: the conclusion of
economic and reciprocal tariff agreements with China
and the formation of an economic bloc among Japan, China,
and 'Manchukuo" in lieu of pressure on China to secure
the recognition of "Manchukuo".
Contrary to such
reports, the Minister for Foreign Affairs told Tokyo
newspaper
*
Embassy's despatches No. 1780 of April 15 and No. 1808
of May 1, 1936.
**
See Monthly Report for March, Section II (b).

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
-8 -
newspaper correspondents on April 2l that he intended
to follow Mr. Hirota's three principles in adjusting
relations with China but added that the method of
applying these principles should be "conciliatory".
On the other hand, there appeared to be no weakening
in the attitude of the Japanese military in China,
judging from remarks attributed by the ASAHI of
April 15 to Major General Seiichi Kita, new Military
Attaché to the Japanese Embassy in China, who left
Japan for his post on that day. Major General Kita
was quoted as having said that he would endeavor to
have China abandon its futile dependence on Europe
and the United States and to rectify its mistaken
notions about Japan; that he would urge the Chinese
to cooperate with Japan in eliminating warlike Communist
influence from the Far East; that China could have no
objections to Japan's three-point nolicy; and that Japan
could not consider economic assistance or any other
form of aid to China unless China could be persuaded
to define clearly its attitude toward Japan.
A good-will mission from the "East Hopei Anti-
Communist Autonomous Government" to "Manchukuo" arrived
in Hsinking on April 14. It was reported that the
purpose of this mission was to initiate negotiations
for the conclusion of a pact for mutual aid in com-
batting Communism and for mutual economic development.
Mr. Hsu Shih-ying, the new Chinese Ambassador to
Japan, presented his credentials to the Emperor on
April 6. The Japanese Government reportedly decided
to appoint Mr. Shigeru Kawagoe, who had served since
September

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
September, 1934, as Consul General at Tientsin, to
succeed Mr. Arita as Ambassador to China. It would
appear that the reason for the decision to appoint
Mr. Kawagoe as Ambassador to China was the fact that
he had been well liked by the Japanese military, with
whom he had been in close contact in Tientsin and
previously in Hsinking.
(c). "Manchukuo".
which provides for the relinquishment of Japan's extra-
territorial rights of taxation and industrial control
over Japanese subjects in "Manchukuo". It is understood
that the agreement will be signed in June and will go
into effect in July of this year.
According to the OSAKA MAINICHI of April 25, the
new Japanese Finance Minister advocates a policy of
Government financial aid for the development of various
industries in "Manchukuo" and such a policy is significant
in that the former Finance Minister was disinclined to
extend Government aid for Manchurian investments.
(d). Turkey.
EE
In reply to a communication from the Turkish Govern-
WE
ment dated April 1l, the Japanese Government stated that
it would be glad to discuss with the other signatories
of the Lausanne Convention the Turkish request that the
rearming of the Dardanelles Straits be considered.*
(e). Belgium.
Mr. Saburo Kurusu, who had served as Chief of the
Commercial Bureau of the Foreign Office since January,
701.9455
1933, was appointed Ambassador to Belgium on April 10.
(f)
Embassy's telegram No. 90 of April 27 and despatch
No. 1807 of May 1, 1936.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
(r). Great Britain.
Mr. Shigeru Yoshida, recently Ambassador-at-large
01.9441
and an especial protegé of Premier Hirota, was appointed
Ambassador to Great Britain on April 10.
(g). Germany.
In a conversation with the Counsellor of the Embassy
on April 26, Dr. O. C. Kiep, chief of the German Economic
WE
Mission to the Far East, stated that the mission had
arrived at an arrangement with the Japanese whereby
EX
Germany will buy large quantities of soya beans from
"Manchukuo" and will pay for about three-quarters of
these beans in sterling exchange and for the remainder
in reichsmarks which could only be used for purchases
in Germany. Dr. Kiep said, in addition, that this
arrangement was purely commercial and had nothing to
do with the question of recognition of "Manchukuo" by
Germany and that German interests in China and Japan
were now purely commercial.*
(h). Brazil.
LA
It was reported by the OSAKA MAINICHI of April 19
that seventy Japanese emigrants had on the day before
sailed with their wives for Brazil for the purpose of
settling as farmers in the country around Manos in the
Amazon River Valley. According to this newspaper, Mr.
Shinji Tazaki, President of the Kobe University of
Commerce, and an authority on emigration, sailcd with
the group of emigrants on a six months' tour of South
America for the purpose of studying the problems of the
Japanese already settled in that part of the world. The
JAPAN
Embassy's despatch No. 1796 of April 28, 1936.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 1.00)
-11-
JAPAN CHRONICLE of April 25 reported that according to
a message received by the Ministry of Overseas Affairs
the Brazilian Government had decided to send an economic
mission to Japan to return the visit of Hirao and his
mission last year.
(i). Ethiopia.
WE
At a press conference on April 17 the spokesman of
the Foreign Office stated that in the event of Italian
subjugation of Ethiopia Japan would act independently to
protect its rights and interests in that region, pointing
out that Japan had an agreement of friendship and trade
with Ethiopia and that commerce between the two countries
had been increasing recently.
Mt. Ato Daba Biru, soi-disant diplomatic negotiator
for Ethiopia, who had been in Japan for almost seven
months, sailed for his homeland on April 2.*
(j). Australia.
NE
The negotiations for the conclusion of a commercial
647.9431
treaty between Japan and Australia having reached a virtual
EA
standstill in March, authorities of the Japanese Government
were reported by the press to be considering the advisa-
bility of invoking the Trade Protection Law against
Australia on account of the latter's plan to increase the
duty on Japanese rayon textiles and cotton cloth.
The
Japanese Government was said to be indignant over the
stand taken by Austrelia, especially in view of the
Australian favorable balance of trade. According to the
JAPAN TIMES of April 28, the rayon export associations of
Yokohama, Tokyo, and Kobe requested the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry to
invoke
Embassy's despatch No. 1504 of October 3, 1935.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
invoke the retaliatory provisions of the Trade Protection
Law against Australia and suggested that the Japanese
Government establish a license system for imports of
Australian raw wool and wheat.
(k). The Dominican Republic.
LA
Mr. Manuel G. Soriano, the first Consul General of
the Dominican Republic to be stationed in Japan, arrived
at his post in Yokohama on April 7. According to the
JAPAN ADVERTISER of April 8, Mr. Soriano stated that the
principal object of his mission in this country was to
increase the trade between the Dominican Republic and
Japan, which had greatly improved in recent years, his
country having imported Japanese products to the value
of ¥3,749,982 and Japan having imported Dominican products
worth ¥3,742,509 in the year 1935.
(1). Siam.
The Japanese economic mission headed by Mr. Yunosuke
Yasukawa, which left Tokyo on March 13 for Siam, departed
from that country on April 2l. In a radio telephone
interview from Batavia with the Tokyo ASAHI on April 22,
Mr. Yasukawa was reported to have made the following
statements: that the Siamese are friendly toward Japan
but apparently wish to avoid any excessive cordiality
because of the closeness of their relations with Great
Britain and France; that before his visit to Siam he had
been under the impression that the balance of trade in
favor of Siam was about ¥35,000,000 but that he had dis-
covered that this balance was only ¥4,000,000 or ¥5,000,-
oo0; and that Japanese sundry goods almost monopolized
the Siamese market.
III.
* See Monthly Report for March, Section II (g).

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet.
In the wake of the February 26 incident, a number
of developments took place during the month of April
894.002
which affected the Cabinet. On April 10 the Cabinet
decided to abolish the Cabinet Deliberative Body, which
was organized under the Okada Government and had been
closely associated with the senior statesmen and was
therefore deemed objectionable, in the new order of
things.* It was reported that a plan had been proposed
to reduce the number of Ministers of the various Depart-
ments from the present thirteen to seven and to make them
all Ministers without Portfolio, directly responsible to
the Emperor and entrusted with the formulation of policies
which would be executed by the Ministers with Portfolio.
This proposal met with opposition in the Cabinet, probably
on account of its similarity to the defunct Cabinet
Deliberative Body.**
Mr. Hachiro Arita, Ambassador to China, was formally
installed on April 2 as Minister for Foreign Affairs in
place of Premier Hirota, who had held this post since the
formation of the new Cabinet on March 10. On April 10
Mr. Mamoru Shigemitsu resigned from his post of Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs and was placed on the waiting
list. Although Mr. Shigemitsu had previously been known
as a friend of the military, the press reported that one
of the reasons for his resignation was the Army's opposition
to him. He was succeeded as Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs by Mr. Kensuke Horinouchi, formerly Chief of the
American
Embassy's despatch No. 1735 of March 19, 1936.
Embassy's despatch No. 1784 of April 17, 1936.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
American Affairs Bureau of the Foreign Office.
At its meeting on April 10, the Cabinet decided
to reprimand the following officials for their con-
nection with the February 26 incident: Kazuo Oguri,
former Chief of the Metropolitan Police Board; Toshiki
Karasawa, former Director of the Folice Bureau of the
Home Office; Sei Homma, Chief of the Police Affairs
Department of the Metropolitan Police Board; and Katsu-
roku Aikawa, Chief of the Peace Maintenance Section of
the Home Office. In keeping with the announced policy
of the new Government to clarify the national polity,
the new Minister of Education set forth his views as
follows to a representative of the JAPAN ADVERTISER on
April 29: Japan has for a number of years been adapting
to its needs the modern arts and sciences of the Occident;
in this process greater emphasis has been placed on the
materialistic phase of culture to the detriment of the
spiritual side; Japan is therefore suffering at present
from "unbalance", a situation which must be corrected
through the "humanization of education".
On April 24, the Cabinet decided that meetings
would be held by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, War,
and Navy every Friday; that discussion would not be
limited at these meetings to specific topics but would
embrace everything releting to diplomacy and national
defense; and that the ultimate purpose of the meetings
would be to attain understanding among the three ministers
concerned for the formulation of national policies. The
Minister for Foreign Affairs explained in this connection
that the purpose of such meetings was the unification of
Japan's foreign policy through complete coordination
between the Foreign Office and the defense services.
(b).

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15-
(b). The Army.
Army officials conducted investigations for the
894.20
purpose of determining the identity of and eliminating
all officers known to advocate direct action methods.
It appeared that the moderate elements in the Army were
in control and were making an effort to decrease the
possibility of further incidents such as those of May 15,
1932, and February 26, 1936. A rumor was current during
the month to the effect that the intemperate element in
the Army was discontented with this state of affairs and
was determined to cause more trouble.* At the conference
of garrison and division commanders held on April 8,
General Terauchi, the Minister for War, emphasized the
need of enforcing military discipline and at the same
time edmitted that the clarification of the national
polity and augmentation of armaments were equally im-
portant. Although largely responsible for putting down
the movement of insurgent officers at the end of February,
Lieutenant General Kohei Kashii, Commander of the Tokyo
Garrison and the Martial Law Headquarters, was relieved
of hi s posts and placed on the waiting list on April 2
because of his formal responsibility for the February 26
incident.
There was much discussion by the press during the
month concerning the necessity for an increase in Army
personnel, an improvement in the air force, and augmenta-
tion of the defense forces in "Manchukuo" and North China.
(c). The Navy.
It became known that the Navy had under consideration
794.3
the
* Embassy's despatch No. 1784 of April 17, 1936.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
the establishment of a "Navy Organization Investigation
Council", the functions of which would be to draw up a
new naval defense policy, to suggest structural reforms
in Navy organization, and to compile recommendations for
submission to the Government.* According to newspaper
reports, this new organization will establish a policy
of "home defense combined with an advance southward".
It is said that the "advance to the south" will be peace-
ful and economic in nature.** It was reported that the
Navy Ministry was opposed to the idea advocated by certain
Government officials of abolishing the South Seas Govern-
ment and placing the Japanese Mandated Islands under the
administration of the Formosan Government, because the
South Seas Government should be strengthened to promote
the Navy's policy of southward advance.
(a). Political Parties.
Reportcdly, the Shakai Taisuto (Social Mass Party)
was critical of the attempts being made to reform the
House of Peers on the ground that the reform movement
was prompted by insincere motives and was a make-believe.
to divert the attention of the people from the urgent
necessity for reform in the social and economic system.***
The peculiar character of this so-called proletarian
party is illustrated by the report that the party advocates
the payment by the Government of yl8o.00 annually to the
families of enlisted men in the Army in order to stabilize
social conditions during the present period of tension
over the Soviet-"Manchukuo" border and general labor
conditions.
on
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1784 of April 17, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1798 of April 30, 193s.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 1706 of March 5, 1936.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
- 17 -
On April 22, the Minseito Party announced its policies
as follows: (1) establishment of an independent foreign
policy and peace in the Far East; (2) formulation of a
national defense program for the maintenance of peace in
the Far East; (3) stabilization of the "living of the
masses"; (4) reformation of financial and taxation policies;
(5) establishment of a new parliamentary system to meet
all the national needs; (6) fundamental reorganization of
central and local administrative systems; (7) reformation
of the judicial system, and (8) a reorganization of the
system of education to make it more practical.
The press reported that a section of the Seiyukai
Party desired the resignation of its President, Dr. Kisa-
buro Suzuki, on account of his alleged responsibility for
the party's loss of popular support, as evidenced by the
general election of February 20. However, Dr. Suzuki
was said to be adamant in his determination to retain the
presidency of the Seiyukai.
(e). The Diet.
Premier Hirota told newspaper correspondents on
April 15 that he expected a quiet and peaceful session of
the Diet to be opened on May 1 for the reason that the
present Cabinet represented all the major political parties.
The newspapers stated that for the purpose of allaying
public unrest the Government would guarantee freedom of
speech at the coming extraordinary session of the Diet
despite the fact that the District of Tokyo would still
be under martial law. The representation of the various
political parties in the House of Representatives, as
reported by the OSAKA MAINICHI of April 28, will be as
follows:
Minseito

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
Minseito.
.205
Seiyukai.
.171
Showakai.
25
Shakai Taishuto (Labor)........ 18
Kokumin Domei.
15
Others.
32
(f). Reactionaries.
According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of April 10, the
Home Office has decided to increase the political police
force assigned to watch the activities of reactionaries
as a means of preventing the recurrence of such outbreaks
as that of February 26.
(g).
. The Throne.
The JAPAN CHRONICLE of April 22 stated that Admiral
Suzuki, Court Chamberlain, having recovered from the
wounds that he received at the hands of the February 26
insurgents, had resumed his official duties.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of April 22, the
Home Office has drafted an employee pension bill which
would apply to all factories and mines that cmploy more
than thirty persons and which provides for the establish-
ment of retirement allowance funds by contributions from
both workers and cmployees. The same newspaper reported
that the Communications Ministry would submit at the
coming extraordinary Diet session a shipping service
control bill providing that when the Government recognizes
the existence of ruinous competition in a steamship
service it will have the authority to advise thc interested
parties to stop the competition and in the event of refusal
the Government will be empowered to prohibit navigation.
V.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
- 19 -
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
On April 6 the Bank of Japan and the semi-official
banks lowered the discount rate on commercial bills and
894.5161
the interest rates on loans and overdrafts by an average
of about .37% annually. The Finunce Minister stated that
this was the first step toward the general lowering of
interest rates in Japan. The Governor of the Bank of
Japan explained that another reason for the step was to
make the interest rate on Government bonds more attractive
than those of bank deposits and in this way to create a
market for future issues of Government bonds. Indications
13202
became even clearer during the month that Mr. Baba, the
Finance Minister, would abandon the Takahashi policy of
gradually reducing Government bond issues. On April 18
the Finance Minister converted a quantity of 5% Government
bonds into 3.5% bonds,* this move having been made possible
by the prior lowering of the discount rate on commercial
bills and the interest rates on loans and overdrafts by
the Bank of Japan and the semi-official banks.
In an interview on April 6 with a correspondent of
the ASAHI, the Finance Minister was quoted as having said
that he doubted whether he would be able to give an ex-
planation of taxation readjustment at the coming Diet
session and that his taxation program would be completed
by next October. This newspaper stated that the Finance
Minister hoped to have taxation measures ready to be
applied in the fiscal year 1937-1938.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANC IAL CONDITIONS.
(a). Foreign Trade.
April exports amounted to ¥205,295,000 and imports
were
Embassy's despatch No. 1784 of April 17, 1936.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
- 20 -
were ¥247,057,000, as compared with exports for March of
¥215,473,000 and imports of ¥276,019,000. Thus the
unfavorable balance of trade decreased from ¥60,546,000
for March to ¥41,762,000 for the month under review.*
Mr. Shikao Matsushima was appointed to the post of
Chief of the Commercial Affairs Bureau of the Foreign
Office to fill the vacancy caused by the appointment of
Mr. Kurusu on April 10 as Ambassador to Belgium. As
reported by the JAPAN TIMES of April 21, in a speech given
before the Foreign Trade Association of Japan, Mr. Matsu-
shima emphatically stated that Japan would retaliate
22m220
against unfair restrictions on Japanese commodities by
any nation. The significance of this remark was said to
lie in the present troubled trade negotiations with
Australia, Egypt, India, and the Netherland Indies.
(b). Industries.
According to the JAPAN TIMES of April 23, at a
meeting in Osaka on April 22, the Japan Rayon Association
decided to establish strict control of rayon production
with a view to having equilibrium between the demand for
and the supply of rayon yarns. It was stated that the
principal reasons for the adoption of this measure by
the Japan Rayon Association were the preaviling low
prices of rayon yarns and Australia's plan to raise tariff
rates and to adopt import restrictions on Japanese rayon.
(o). Aviation.
It was reported that military circles were advocating
Government management and operation of all major branches
of the aviation industry, or, failing that, strict control
1n
* Figures furnished by the Commercial Attaché's Office.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
- 21 -
in order that Japan's civil aviation may be up to scratch
in the event of war.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR AND EMICRATION.
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothiug to report.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING APRIL, 1936
No.
Date
Subject
1756
April 1
Amalgamation of the News Agencies,
Domei and Nippon Dempo.
1757
April 1
American Oil Interests in Japan.
1758
April 1
Policies of the Hirota Cabinet.
1759
April 1
Informal Visit of the U. S. S. AUGUSTA
to Japanese Ports.
1760 April 2
Letters Rogatory re Chinese American Bank
of Commerce versus the Anglo and London
Paris National Bank.
1761 April 2
Quarterly Report of Personnel Residing in
Government-Owned Buildings at Tokyo.
1762
April 2
Uniforms for Embassy Employees.
1763
April 4
Diplomatic Visa Report.
1764
April 4
Fisheries.
1765
April 7
Copies of Consular Regulations.
1766
April 10
Second Quarterly Examinations of Mr. Warner.
1767
April 11
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
1768
April 11
Communication from the Osaka Chamber of
Commerce Requesting the Establishment of
an American Consulate at Osaka.
1769 April 11
Seizure of Smoking Opium and Morphine ex
S. S. ASAMA MARU.
1770
April 11
Transmission of JIJI NENKAN, 1936.
1771
April 11
First Quarterly Examination of Mr. Emmerson.
1772
April 13
Correction of Error in U. S. S. SHARK
Specifications.
1773
April 13
Laying of Keel of Destroyer DD-400.
1774
April 13
Completion of the U. S. S. TARPON.
1775
April 13
Increased Control of News in Japan.
1776
April 13
Transmission of Publications.
1777
April 13
Inspection of Japanese Diplomatic Missions
and Consular Offices Abroad.
1778 Apri1 15
Dr. Tsunejiro Miyaoka.
1779
April 15
Ratification by the Japanese Government of
the Protocol of September 14, 1929
(Amendments to the Statute of the Permanent
Court of International Justice).
1780

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
1780
April 15
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
1781
April 16
Monthly Political Report.
1782
April 17
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE U. S., 1919, Russia.
1783
April 17
Visit of Mr. Saburo Kurusu to the United
States.
1784
April 17
Aftermath of the February 26 Incident.
1785
April 17
Sick Leave of Mr. Crocker.
1786
April 17
Home Leave of Mr. Crocker.
1787
April 18
Post Report.
1788
April 18
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
1789
April 18
Difficulty of Obtaining Commercial Informa-
tion.
1790
April 21
Laying of Keel of U. S. Destroyer DD-40l.
1791
April 21
Laying of Keel of U. S. Destroyer DD-396.
1792
April 22
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES, 1922.
1793
April 24
Address Made by the Ambassador.
1794
April 25
Diplomatic Visa Report.
1795
April 27
Address Made by Mr. Neville.
1796
April 28
German Economic Mission to the Far East.
1797
April 30
Message from the Ambassador.
1798
April 30
Japan's "Southward Advance" Policy.
1799
April 30
Provisional Arrest and Detention of Si
Reubens, Alias Silas Rebenstein.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 1.00)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING APRIL, 1936
No.
Date
Subject
84
April 4
Appointment of Mr. Arita as Minister for
Foreign Affairs.
85
April 8
Application for Visa of Mr. Ramos, Filipino.
86
April 17
Interview with the New Foreign Minister.
87
April 21
Message fron Commercial Attaché for Commerce
Department.
88
April 24
Foreign Service Examination Papers for
Mr. Parsons and Mr. Jorgensen.
89
April 27
Visit of U. S. S. AUGUSTA to Yokohama and Kobe.
90
April 27
Japanese Attitude Regarding Refortification
of the Dardanelles.
91
April 30 Date of Mr. Coville's Return to Tokyo.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVIGION OF VEST=RN
JUL 17 193d
1936 JUN 29 AM 11 49
No. 1082
AMERICAN EMBA
AIVISER
DIVISION OF
235
AND RECORDS
THE MONTE OF MAY, 1936.
994.00 PR
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
For
IuUBA
A.CA
RDING DYSK
RA
OF STATE
A-C/C
LE-WHR
kk
894/00
DIVISION OF
JUL181936
LATINAMERICAN AFFAIRS
P.R./102
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
Division of
The Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUN 30192
Washington.
Department
JUL 21 1938
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
horewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions
in Japan for the month of May, 1936.
Respeotfully yours,
Poacol
GDA1c/m
JUL 29 1936
Joseph C. Grew
FILED
800
Emclosure
1/ Report No. 116
Copy to Eabassy, Peiping
Embassy, Moscow
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate Gensral, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Kobe
Comsalate, Dairen
In quiatuplicate to the Departm

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
NO. 116
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF MAY, 1936.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX
AND
SUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a) Cotton Textiles.
. 1, 2
(b)
American Approach to the Japanese
Government Regarding Smuggling in
North China.....
2,3
(c)
Automobile Industry Control Law.
3
(a)
American Oil Interests.
4,5
(e)
Problem of Land Leases Held by Japanese
in Davao Province, Philippine Islands... 5
(f)
Visit of Admiral Murfin on the U. S. S.
AUGUSTA.
5, 6
(g)
Visit to Japan of the Representatives of
the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the
Unites States..
6
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) China
Smuggling in East Hopei..
6,7
(2)
Increase in the Japanese North
China Garrison....
7,8
(3) Statements by Japanese Officials... 8, 9
(b)
Soviet Russia.
9, 10
(c)
Great Britain
(1)
British Approach to the Japanese
Government Regarding Smuggling
in North China.
10, 11
(2)
British Intention to Increase its
Navy's Destroyer Strength......
11, 12
(3)
Departure for London of Mr. Shigeru
Yoshida, Newly Appointed Ambassador
to Great Britain.
12
(d) "Manchukuo"
12, 13
(e)
Australia.
13
(f)
Germany.
14
(g)
Italy
14
(h)
The Union of South Africa.
14
(1)

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
(1)
Latin America.
15
(3)
International Naval Issue.
15,16
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a)
The Diet.
16, 17
(b)
Aftermath of the February 26 Incident.. 17, 18
(c)
Army and Navy.
18
(a)
Japanese Foreign Service.
18
(e)
Reactionaries.
19
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
19, 20
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
20
VI.
GENERAL EC ONOMIC AND FINANC IAL COIDITIONS:
(a)
Foreign Trade.
20
(b)
Financial Trends....
21
(c)
Shipping.
21
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERC IAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION.
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS:
Japanese Ratification of the International
Convention for the Suppression of the Circulation
of and Traffic in Obscene Publications.
21

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Cotton Textiles.
The announcement on May 2l by the United States
Government of increased duties on certain cotton imports
into the United States brought forth editorial comment
in the Japanese press much less acrimonious in tone than
the newspaper criticisms directed against the Australian
increase in the duties on cotton and rayon textiles.*
With regard to the United States, the Japanese press
generally ascribed the increased duties to pressure on
the American Government by New England textile interests.
The increase in the American tariff seemed to be looked
upon in this country as a relatively minor matter, since
Japan's cotton textile exports to the United States amount
to less than 2 per cent of its total exports of this com-
modity. However, the Jananese manufacturers appeared to
feel that they had a claim to consideration from the
United States because of the considerable excess of
Japanese purchases from the United tates over Japanese
exports to that country. For example, two leading Japanese
manufacturers of cotton textiles were quoted by the OSAKA
MAINICHI of May 23 as having saii that the American atti-
tude was unreasonable in view of Japan's large purchases
from the United States. On May 22 the Foreign Office
spokesman expressed his personal regret over the step
taken by the United States from the point of view of
the principle of free trade and the constantly improving
commercial relations between Japan and the United States.
According to the JAFAN TIMES of May 23, certain Japanese
manufacturers held the view that the American action had
been
Embassy's telegram No. 113 of May 25, 1936, and Embassy's
despatch No. 1861 of May 28, 1936.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
been caused by the "weak diplomatic policy" of the
Japanese Government and that the Trade Protection Law
should be invoked against the United States.
(b).
American Approach to the Japanese Government
regarding Smuggling in North China.
Acting under instructions from the Department, the
Ambassador called on the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
Su
on May 13 and made the following oral and informal approach
regarding smuggling in North China: reports supported by
substantial evidence have stated that Japanese subjects
have taken a prominent part in such operations, that there
has been little evidence of a disposition on the part of
the Japanese to curb these activities, that Japanese
authorities in North China have obstructed the enforcement
of preventative measures by the Chinese, and that the
Eastern Hopei "autonomous" régime has reduced import duties
in an arbitrary fashion and has permitted the goods con-
cerned to enter China for general commercial purposes.
The Ambassador also stated that the American Government
was concerned not only with the deleterious effect of
this smuggling on American imports into China but also
with the fact that the impairment of the Chinese Government's
income from customs revenue tended to endanger that Govern-
ment's capacity to fulfill outstanding financial obliga-
tions to American citizens.* Similar and parallel repre-
sentations, also informal, had been made previously by
the British Ambassador on behalf of his Government. In
the case of both approaches the replies of the Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs and of the Minister for
Foreign Affairs were specious and illogical, since these
officials
* Embassy's telegram No. 94 of May 6, Department's telegram
No. 52 of May 8, and Embassy's telegram No. 104 of May 13,
1936.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
officials attempted to blame the smuggling on "unreasonably
high tariffs" prevailing in China and on the lack of zeal
of the local Chinese authorities to ensure the collection
of customs duties and asserted that. the Japanese Government
was unable to control smuggling for these reasons, although
Japanese merchants were as much concerned with the adverse
effects of such operations on their business as the British
and American merchants.* The fact that Japan actually
controlled the Eastern Hopei "autonomous" régime never
entered into the picture, obviously because the Japanese
Government had consistently maintained that this régime
was purely autonomous. Toward the end of the month the
Foreign Office evinced an interest in the American Govern-
ment's concern over the smufgling in North China yet gave
no promise whatsoever of attempting to put a stop to an
easily eradicable situation.** In fact, the Foreign Office
feigned indignation over the imputation of any political
motive on the part of the Japanese Government in connection
with the North China smuggling.***
(c). Automobile Industry Control Law.
The Automobile Industry Control Bill was approved by
both Houses of the Diet. As already reported to the
Department,
this law will permit the American automobile
assembling plants in this country (the Ford Motor Company
and General Motors, Japan) to continue operations up to
the limit of their production on August 9, 1935, but not
to enlarge their business in Janan.
(d).
*
Embassy's telegrams No. 104 of May 13 and No. 108 of
May 18, 1936.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 114 of May 27, 1936.
***
Embassy's telegram No. 108 of May 18
1936
****
Embassy's despatch No. 1820 or May 12, 1936, and
previous despatches and telegrams.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
(d). American Oil Interests.
On May l6 the representatives of the American and
British oil companies presented the following plan to Mr.
Yoshino, Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, concern-
ing cooperation between the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
and the Rising Sun Petroleum Company on the one hand and
the Mitsui interests on the other: Mitsui would carry
all the non-commercial oil stocks required by the Japanese
Government; in return Mitsui would receive the entire
compensation paid by the Governnent for stock-keeping,
as well as some share of the foreign oil companies' business
in Japan; and the oil companies would make a permanent
supply contract with Mitsui, in return for which they would
ask that the present volune quotas granted by the Japanese
Government be changed to percentage quotas. In their
conversation with Mr. Yoshino the oil company representatives
implied that unless some arrangement of the sort could be
reached the companies would be compelled sooner or later
to withdraw from Japan, to which Mr. Yoshino replied that
the Japanese Government wished the foreign oil companies
to remain in Japan, promising that he would endeavor to
induce Mitsui to expedite matters so that some arrange-
ment could be reached before July 1, 1936 (the date on
which the oil companies are required to possess six
months' stocks in Japan). On the same day the American
and British oil company representatives interviewed one
of the managing directors of the Mitsui interests along
similar lines. The Mitsui representative received the
proposals favorably.* Although negotiations were
continued
* Embassy's despatch No. 1860 of May 29, 1936.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
continued toward the close of the month no definite
agreement was reached.
(e).
Problem of Land Leases Held by Japanese in
Davao Province, Philippine Islands.
In a long interpellation in the House of Peers on
May ll Mr. Korekiyo Otsuka asked the Minister for Foreign
Affairs what action would be taken to solve the Davao
land problem.* Mr. Arita replied that he believed that
the problem would be solved satisfactorily, since Presi-
dent Quezon understood that the Japanese residents in
Davao had only followed the local custom in cultivating
the land in that province. Questioned by foreign news-
paper correspondents on May 22, the Foreign Office spokes-
man stated that the Japanese Government did not consider
itself at present to be in a position to take up the
Davao question with the American authorities, that con-
versations were in progress in the Philippines between the
Japanese Consul General there and the authorities of the
Commonwealth, and that the Japanese Government expected
that the matter would come to a mutually satisfactory
settlement based upon justice and equity.
(f). Visit of Admiral Murfin on the U.S.S. AUGUSTA.
Admiral Orin G. Murfin, successor to Admiral Frank B.
Upham as Commander-in-Chief of the United States Asiatic
Fleet, arrived at the port of Yokohama on May 25 aboard
his flagship, the U. S. S. AUGUSTA, for an official visit
of eleven days. There were the usual entertainments for
a visiting Commander-in-Chief of the United States Asiatic
Fleet, including an informal dinner and an official luncheon
at
* Embassy's Monthly Report for April, Section I (c).

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
at the American Embassy, a luncheon at the American Club,
official dinners given by the Japanese Navy Minister and
the American Naval Attaché, a smoker by the America-Japan
Society, and a dinner-dance given by the American Associa-
tion. The Embassy will report more fully on the Admiral's
visit by despatch.
(g).
Visit to Japan of the Representatives of
the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States.
An unofficial mission comnosed of eight members of
the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States headed
by Mr. James E. Van Zandt, the Commander-in-Chief of that
organization, who arrived in Japan on April 2l,* remained
in this country until May 16. They were widely and hos-
pitably entertained and in return appeared to have created
a favorable impression among the Japanese.**
II.
RELATIONS WITII OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a). China.
79319
After the comparative lull that followed the February
26 incident, Sino-Japanese relations again became tense
during the month of May, principally due to Japan's part
in the large scale smuggling operations in the East Hopei
region and to the decision of the Japanese Jar Office on
May 1 5 to increase the Japanese North China garrison.
China protested ineffectually against Japanese hampering
of the Chinese customs enforcement and it was reported
at the end of the month that the Chinese Government was
going to protest against the increase in Japan's garrison
in Tientsin.
(1). Smuggling in East Hopei.
At a press conference on May 15 the spokesman of
the
*
Embassy's Monthly Report for April.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1845 of May 15, 1936.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
the Japanese Foreign Office asserted that the Japanese
Government was doing everything possible to prevent
smuggling in North China, emphatically denied that the
smuggling was due in any way to the Tangku Truce or the
Ho Ying-chin-Umezu agreement, and also denied any know-
ledge on the part of the Foreign Office of pressure being
exerted by the Japanese military authorities against
Chinese customs officials. Newspaper correspondents who
were present at the conference stated that Mr. Amau had
been ill at east throughout the interview and had dis-
played both hesitation and irritation when questioned.*
According to the press, on May 15 the Nanking Govern-
ment filed with the Japanese Government a second repre-
sentation regarding the smuggling in North China, charging
that the Japanese authorities in that region had made it
impossible for the Chinese customs authorities to take
effective measures to check the smu gling, asserting that
the Japanese were conniving at smuggling operations by
taking advantage of Japan's extraterritorial rights in
China, and requesting the Tokyo Government to put a stop
to intervention oy Japanese and to take effective measures
to check Japanese and Korean smugelers. The protest also
reportedly expressed dissatisfaction at Japan's failure
to send any reply to the Chinese Government's first
representation against smuggling. Apparently the Japanese
Foreign Office remained indifferent to the Chinese repre-
sentations, to all practical intents and purposes.
(2).
Increase in the Japanese North China
Garrison.
On May 15 the War Office formally announced that the
Japanese
* Embassy's despatch No. 1850 of May 15, 1936.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
Japanese North China garrison would be increased.
According to the estimate of the Military Attaché's
office, the garrison is to be increased from about
2,000 to about 4,300 officers and men.* Although
officials of the War Office stated that the strengthen-
ing of the garrison had been decided upon in connection
with the terms of the Boxer Protocol to enable the garri-
son to fulfill its duties completely and that the step
did not mean any violation of Chinese sovereignty, the
more than double increase would lend credence to the
rumor circulated during May to the effect that Japan
contemplated renewed military action in China in the
near future.*
(3). Statements by Japanese Officials.
Upon landine at Moji on May 7, Mr. Kawagoe, Japanese
Consul General at Tientsin and Ambassador-designate to
China, was credited with the following statement by the
OSAKA MIANICHI of May 8: "The logical conclusion of the
current Chinese situation, political and economic, is
that China's only way out of her present difficulties
lies in marching arm in arm with Japan." Mr. Kawagoe's
formal appointment as Ambassador to China took place on
May
15.
Answering an interpellation in the House of Peers on
May 17, Premier Hirota stated that encouraging results
had not attended "Japan's amicable and discreet policy
toward the Soviet Union and China" but that in time China
might come to appreciate Japan's attitude. A far more
emphatic and significant statement was said to have been
made
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1865 of May 28, 1936.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
made by Mr. Suma, the Japanese Consul General at Nanking,
in an interview with newspaper correspondents at Kobe on
May 29. Domei (news agency) reported on May 30 that Mr.
Suma had stated that he had told Chiang Kai-shek that "China
must now choose between mutual interdependence with Japan
or war with Japan".* Mr. Suma was also credited with the
statement that for Japan to retreat one step would mean a
general retreat and that Japan must advance straight ahead
in accordance with its immutable convictions. It may be
remarked that such statements and the decision of the Army
to increase its garrison in North China form a part of the
evidence in support of the rumor that Japan is planning
fresh military action in China.
(b). Soviet Russia.
761.
No border clashes occurred during the month to increase
the already existing tension between the two countries,
only a few minor incidents taking place. The principal
developments in Soviet-Japanese relations were the decision
of the War Office to increase the strength of the Kwantung
Army, the conclusion of a provisional fisheries agreement
on May 25, and the filing by the Soviet Foreign Office with
the Japanese Ambassador at Moscow of a protest against the
arrest and "persecution" of the Japanese employees of the
Soviet Embassy in Tokyo.**
There had for some time been under consideration by
the War Office a plan for strengthening the Kwantung Army
in view of the large number of Soviet troops on the border
of "Manchukuo". In a speech delivered on May 12 the War
Minister reminded the members of the Diet that the USSR
was
*
Embassy's telegram No. 117 of May 30, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1866 of May 29, 1936.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10-
was actively continuing its policy of extending communism
throughout the world; that upon the completion of the
double tracking of the trans-Siberian Railway the Soviet
forces in East Asia might soon be increased to 300,000 men,
a force greater than the entire standing Japanese Army;
and that attention must be given to the rapid increase of
the number of Soviet submarines at Vladivostok and of
Soviet airplanes in the Maritime Province. According to
press reports the War Office finally came to a decision
to increase the Kwantung Army's forces beginning in the
early part of l937 and also to promote the emigration of
large numbers of Japanese settlers to "Manchukuo" with the
idea of eventually obtaining military reinforcements from
them.*
The Japanese Ambassador at Moscow was reported to hawe
succeeded on May 25 in negotiating a provisional extension
of the existing fisheries treety with the Soviet Union
until the end of the present calendar year.**
According to news despatches from Moscow, the Soviet
Vice Commissar for Foreign Affairs protested to the Japanese
Ambassador against the "persecution" of the Japanese em-
ployees of the Soviet Embassy in Tokyo who had been arrested
on charges of espionage, insisting that the arrested trans-
lators had merely been doing their legitimate work.
(c)
Great Britain.
(1)
British Approach to the Japanese Government
94244
Regarding Smuggling in North China.
93
Acting under instructions, the British Ambassador
called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs on May 2 and
(Sel
made
Embassy's despatch No. 1848 of May 15, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1866 of May 29, 1936.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
-11 -
made an oral approach regarding smuggling in North China
similar to that made subsequently by the American
Ambassador.* The reply of the Minister for Foreign
Affairs was identical with his reply of May 18 to the
American oral and informal approach of May 13.**
(2)
British Intention to Increase its
Navy's Destroyer Strength.
During the first part of May the Japanese Government
received from the British Government two memoranda which
set forth the latter's desire to increase its Navy's
destroyer strength from 150,000 to 190,000 tons and to
convert three Class-A cruisers into Class-B ships and
one Class-A cruiser into a training ship, thereby gaining
a legal right to construct four new Class-A cruisers.
According to press despatches, on May 26 the Japanese
Chargé d'Affaires in London, acting under instructions,
delivered a somewhat vague renly from the Japanese
Government to the British naval memoranda to the effect
that Japan had no objection to Great Britain's proposed
increase of destroyer strength by the cessation of the
scrapping obligation but that if Great Britain were allowed
to do so the other Signatory Powers should also be granted
the right to waive the scrapping obligations and make
similar increases.*** The reference in this case is
probably to Japan's intention not to scrap over-age
destroyers and submarines, which this country is required
to do by the end of the year 1936, in accordance with the
provisions of the Washington and London Naval Treaties.
While firmly resolved to retain its over-age auxiliary
craft
*
Embassy's telegram No. 94 of May 6, and Section II (a)
of the present report.
**：
Embassy's telegram No. 108 of May 18, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 1874 of May 30, 1936.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
craft, Japan would like to carry out its resolution
through legal means. The Embassy's Naval Attaché has
been unable to obtain any official information concerning
the actual text of Japan's reply to the British memoranda.
(3)
Departure for London of Mr. Shigeru
Yoshida, Newly Appointed Ambassador
to Great Britain.
Mr. Shigeru Yoshida, who was appointed Ambassador
to Great Britain on April 10, 1936, left Japan for London
on May 2l. An interesting report published by the NICHI
NICHI of May 19, which the Embassy has been unable to
confirm, stated that Mr. Yoshida carried with him the
following four-point program which the Foreign Office
had instructed him to communicate to the British Govern-
ment upon his arrival in London: (1) Japan will respect
British rights and interests in China in return for
recognition of its position on the Asiatic continent;
(2) Tokyo is prepared to conclude parallel naval limita-
tion treaties with London and Washington; (3) negotiations
with Great Britain and its dominions on wholesale readjust-
ment of trade relations are desired; and (4) Japan will
make its "real intentions" known to Great Britain so that
they may be relayed to other countries. Mr. Amau, the
Foreign Office spokesman, told newspaper correspondents
on May 20 that the new Ambassador to London took with
him no special instructions.
(a). "Manchukuo".
According to a Hsinking news despatch dated May 9
from the staff correspondent of the OSAKA MAINICHI, the
Central Bank of "Manchukuo" announced on that day a
reduction of its deposit and loan-advancing interest
rates

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
rates, probably with the idea of being in conformity with
the trend of the Baba finance policy of Japan.
(e). A1stralia.
The increase in cotton and rayon textile duties in
Australia was bitterly criticized by the Japanese press.*
This acrimonious press comment can be partly explained
by the fact that Australian imports from Japan have amounted
in recent years to less than one-third of Japanese imports
from Australia. On the other hand, in 1935, for example,
Japan took over lo% of Australia's total imports, accord-
ing to figures furnished the Embassy by the Australian
Trade Commissioner in Tokyo. The Australian Trade Com-
missioner set forth his Government's point of view in a
statement published by the JAPAN TIMES of May 27, pointing
out that the new Australian duties were not aimed at Japan
as they applied to all foreign nations alike. It did not
seem likely that the Japanese would be pleased with this
statement inasmuch as they appeared to believe that the
new Australian tariff had been inspired by the British
Government and to fear that the same tactics affecting
Japanese exports would be adopted in other British dominions
and regions under British influence.
While the vernacular newspapers reported that the
Japanese Government would invoke the Trade Protection Law
against Australia, the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
told the Counselor of the Embassy on May 27 that his
Government had not yet come to a decision on the exact
measures to be adopted. The press reported that the
Japan Industrial Woollen Association had decided to
decrease annual purchases of Australian wool and to
curtail the production of woollen textiles in Japan.
(f).
* Embassy's despatch No. 1861 of May 28, 1936.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
(r). Germany.
On May 1 the Embassy of "Manchukuo" in Tokyo
announced the conclusion of a German-"Manchukuo" trade
agreement, signed on April 30 as a result of negotiations
conducted by Japan, "Manchukuo", and the German Economic
Mission headed by Dr. Otto C. Kiep. The details of the
agreement were not made known. However, Dr. Kiep sketched
the terms of the agreement in a conversation with the
Counselor of the Embassy on April 26.*
(g). Italy.
According to the OSAKA MAINICHI of May 14, on the
previous day the spokesman of the Foreign Office told
foreign newspaper correspondents that the Japanese Chargé
d'Affaires at Addis Ababa had been authorized by his
Government to call on the Italian High Commissioner there
for the purpose of seeking protection for Japanese residents
in Ethiopia and added that the call to be made by Mr.
Suzuki would be informal and would in no way signify the
Japanese Government's recognition of Italy's annexation
of Ethiopia.
(h). The Union of South Africa.
The JAPAN ADVERTISER of May 23 reported that the
Government of the Union of South Africa had decided to
send a trade mission to Japan in June and that Japanese
business men were enthusiastic over this decision, parti-
cularly in view of the strained commercial relations
between Australia and Japan and the latter's decision to
buy wool elsewhere, possibly from the Union of South Africa.
(1).
* Embassy's despatch IIo. 1796 of April 28, 1936.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15 -
(i). Latin America.
Various Japanese newspapers reported that the Japanese
private commercial mission sent to Central and South
America in December, 1935, for the purpose of makine
trade agreements with Latin American countries had failed
to accomplish anything of importance.* The Japanese
press seemed to be of the opinion that the greatest
obstacle to the adjustment of trade relations with Latin
American countries was the prior conclusion of reciprocal
trade agreements by the United States with those countries.
The press in this country apparently ignored the fact that
Japan had not evinced any willingness to agree to purchase
enough products from the various Latin American countries
to make commercial treaties profitable for the latter.
(j). International Naval Issue.
Replying to an interpellation by members of the Diet
Budget Committee on May 13, the Navy Minister reportedly
expressed Japan's decision to "lead the world" in attempting
to bring about another arms limitation conference, yet at
the same time Admiral Nagano asserted that there would
be no change in the Japanese thesis of "non-menace and
non-aggression" and parity among Japan, Great Britain, and
the United States (a thesis that had proved to be un-
acceptable to Great Britain and the United States at the
last Naval Conference)**. While there are indications
that Japan might perhaps be disposed to be more conciliatory
in its naval stand than previously, such indications
were almost completely nullified by Admiral Nagano's
assertion and by the pamphlet recently issued by the
Navy
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1848 of May 15, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1874 of May 30, 1936.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 1.00)
-16-
Navy Department entitled "The International Situation
and the Japanese Navy with Special Reference to the
Results of the Russo-Japanese War", which reiterated
Japan's insistence upon naval parity and stressed the
need for Japan to build a navy strong enough to protect
it from aggression and to continue in its role of "peace-
maintainer" in the Far East in the face of the proposed
naval building plans of the United States and Great
Britain. There was evident during the month a certain
amount of apprehension in naval circles over the danger
to Japan of a future race in naval construction. However,
it was not clear what line of action the Japanese would
take to remedy a situation arising out of future naval
competition.
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Diet.
The 69th Session of the Diet opened on May 1 and
was formally closed on May 27. As already reported to
the Department*, Diet members were unusually frank and
bold in criticizing both the Army and the Government.
There were dignified and well-founded attacks on the
prevailine chauvinism, notably the speech delivered by
Mr. Takao Saito on May 7.** The Army was pertinently
charged with responsibility for the February 26 assassina-
tions and the Government's lack of concrete measures for
the social reforms promised by it came in for considerable
criticism.
Judging from the character of the Diet interpella-
tions and the statements issued by the five principal
political
*
Embassy's despatches No. 1830 of May 14, 1936, and
No. 1869 of May 29, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1826 of May 13, 1936.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
- 17 -
political parties of the Lower House after the close of
the Diet session, it would appear that the action of
the political parties in unhesitatingly criticizing the
Government and the Army and at the same time passing the
Government's bills was prompted by a genuine desire for
general economic and social reform and for purging the
Army, coupled with a willingness to give the newly formed
Government time to carry out its announced program in the
future.
(b).
Aftermath of the February 26 Incident.
At a conference held on May 2l, Mr. Jiro Mitsuyuki,
the Procurator General, told gendarmerie chiefs assembled
from all over Japan that there must be no toleration of
thoughts or deeds in the realm of patriotism that ignored
the prestige and the laws of the nation and that there
must be no relaxation in criminal administration. In an
interpellation in the House of Representatives on May 21,
Mr. Genkuro Eto, Independent, asked the Government why
the February 26 offenders were not allowed the benefit
of counsel in their court martial and why an appeal would
be denied them, to which the War Minister replied that
the stipulations for the present court martial had been
determined by the nature of the case and the circumstances
prevailing. The ASAHI of May 25 reported that Army
leaders were in the process of preparing a set of pro-
posals for the renovation of Japan's administrative
structure, inasmuch as they were dissatisfied with the
progress made thus far for the attainment of sweeping
reforms needed to tide over the delicate aftermath of
the February 26 incident. The Police Bureau of the Home
Office was reported to be planning the expansion of its
detective

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
- 18 -
detective and special political forces to meet conditions
that have resulted from the February 26 incident.
(c). Army and Navy.
Two Imperial Ordinances were published in the OFFICIAL
GAZETTE of May 18 and May 19, respectively, amending the
regulations with regard to the organization of the Army
and Navy Ministries and providing that appointment to the
posts of Minister and Vice Minister of the Army and the
Navy shall be confined to generals and admirals on the
active list.*
According to the press, the total budget of the
Navy Ministry for the fiscal year 1936-1937 has been
approved at ¥685,789,000, which represents a record for
Japan and an increase of ¥155,106,000 over the 1935-1936
budget and is more than three times the naval budget of
five years ago.**
(d). Japanese Foreign Service.
The newspapers of May 29 reported that Mr. Suemasa
Okamoto, formerly in charge of the Bureau of Accounts of
the Foreign Office, had been appointed Chief of the
American Section and that Mr. Kano Shiozaki, formerly of
the American Bureau of the Foreign Office, had been ap-
pointed Consul General at San Francisco.
According to the Japan CIHRONICLE of May 3O, the
Foreign Office has decided upon a plan to extend the
scope of its Intelligence Bureau, including the appointment
of press attachés to embassies and legations abroad, the
establishment of a bureau in the Foreign Office for
increased contact with foreign publicists interested in
Far Eastern problems, and the establishment of an organiza-
tion
* Embassy's despatch No. 1864 of May 38, 1936.
**Embassy's despatch No. 1874 of May 30, 1936.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
- 19 -
tion which will act in conjunction with other Depart-
ments to deal more effectually with espionage cases.
(e). Reactionaries.
The JAPAN TIMES of May 28 reported that ten former
military cadets convicted for complicity in the May 15,
1932, Affair would be discharged from prison on June 1
upon the expiration of their sentences. Originally these
men were sentenced by court martial to imprisonment for
four years but their sentences were reduced to two years
and eight months by virtue of an Imperial amnesty granted
on February 11, 1934.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Forty-three of the forty-five bills passed by the
Diet were measures that had been drafted by the Okada
Cabinet, the other two drafted by the Hirota Cabinet
being the much-discussed bills for the control of
seditious publications* and the establishment of retire-
ment allowance funds for emnloyees by their employers
(the only important social measure presented in the
Diet). The present Government's bill for the protection
of national mobilization secrets failed of passage. Other
important bills were the following:
the Government's
general budget bill amounting to ¥2,310,529,000 for the
fiscal year 1936-1937, which represents an increase of
¥28,000,000 over the 1936-1937 budget drafted by former
Finance Minister Takahashi and an increase of ¥95,1l5,000
over the 1935-1936 budget; a bil1 for the control of the
automobile industry in Japan by the establishment of a
license system under which new foreien automobile firms
shall not be allowed to operate in Japan and already
existing foreign firms shall not be allowed to increase
their
Embassy's despatch No. 1876 of May 29, 1936.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
their businesses unless Japanese subjects are admitted
to ownership of a majority of the stock; a bill pro-
viding for Government control of shipping in the event
二
of the existence of ruinous competition; three rice
control bills; and a bill for the control of exports
of cotton textiles, silk and rayon textiles, porcelain,
rubber shoes, matches, electric lamps, and other com-
modities.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
In answering an interpellation in the Lower House
Budget Committee during the first part of the month,
the Finance Minister reiterated his intention of revising
the system of taxation and stated that new taxes on the
masses would be avoided as far as possible but that an
excise tax might be imposed on special articles or luxury
goods. According to the YOMIURI of May 12, a bill will
be introduced in the next session of the Diet providing
for tax revision which will result in an increase of
from ¥400,000,000 t0 ¥500,000,000 in Government revenue.
On May 18 the Finance Minister repeated that he would
refrain from imposing taxes that would threaten the
livelihood of the poorer classes and that he would also
avoid taxing the necessities of life.
VI.
GENERAL EC ONOMIC AND FINANC IAL CONDITIONS.
(a)
Foreign Trade.
Japan's May exports were ¥222,628,000 while its
imports were ¥244,305,000, as compared with April exports
of ¥205,295,000 and imports of ¥247,057,000. The un-
favorable balance of trade thus decreased from ¥4l,762,000
for April to ¥21,677,000 for the month of May.*
(b).
* Statistics and information furnished by the
Commercial Attaché's office.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
-21-
(b). Financial Trends.*
The stock market, thoueh not active, was slightly
stronger than during the previous month; the bond market
was dull; the average yen rate was 0.29.
(c). Shipping.
According to the OSAKA MAINICHI of May 21, the
Ministry of Communications is drawing up a plan for
increasing Japan's merchant marine fleet from 4,000,000
tons to 6,000,000 tons within the next few years and
intends to introduce a bill to this effect in the next
regular session of the Diet.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
工.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION.
Nothing to report.
x.
MISC ELLANEOUS.
Japanese Ratification of the International Convention
for the Suppression of the Circulation of and Traffic
in Obscene Publications.
Japan's ratification of the International Convention
for the Suppression of the Circulation of and Traffic in
Obscene Publications was announced in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE
of May 16, 1936.**
*
Statistics and information furnished by the
Commercial Attaché's office.
Embassy's despatch No. 1855 of May 19, 1936.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING MAY, 1936.
No.
Date
Subject
1800
May 1
American Oil Interests in Japan.
1801
May 1
Oriental Consolidated Mining Company.
1802
May 1
Statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
1803
May 1
Presentation of Rock from Mt. Fuji.
1804
May 1
Gifts of Cloth Carp.
1805
May 1
Penal Colonies in Japan.
1806
May 1
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
1807
May 1
Re-arming of the Dardanelles.
1808
May 1
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
1809
May 1
Seizure of Mcrphine at San Francisco
ex TAIYO MARU on October 10, 1935.
1810
May 5
Laying of keel of U. S. S. WASP.
1811
May 5
Laying of keel of U. S. S. SAMPSON.
1812
May 7
Refusal of Permission for Mr. E. F. O'Connor
to land in Japan.
1813
May 7
Nagoya Pan-Pacific Peace Exhibition.
1814
May 8
Diplomatic Visa Report.
1815
May 9
Departure of Japanese Fishing Vessels for
Bering Sea.
1816
May 11
Abolition of the Cabinet Inquiry Council.
1817
May 11
Letters rogatory re Central Azucarera, etc.
1818
May 12
Smuggling in North China.
1819
May 12
Increase of American Tariff on Japanese
Woollen Gloves, etc.
1820
May 12
Japanese Automobile Industry Control Law.
1821
May 12
Trial of Colonel Aizawa.
1822
May 12
Visit of Mr. Kurusu to the United States.
1823
May 12
Address Made by the Ambassador.
1824
May 13
Gasoline Contracts.
1825
May 13
Request for Supplies.
1826
May 13
Speech made by Mr. Takao Saito in the Diet.
1827

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
1827
May 13
Foreign Service Examination of Mr. Parsons.
1828
May 13
Leave of Mr. Crocker.
1829
May 13
Monthly Report for April.
1830
May 14
Proceedings of the Diet.
1831
May 13
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
1832
May 13
Exclusion of Foreign Vessels from the
Dairen-Chosen Trade.
1833
May 14
Aftermath of the February 26th Incident.
1834
May 15
Laying of Keel of U. S. S. SALMON.
1835
May 15
Completion of U. S. S. PIKE.
1836
May 13
Letters rogatory re Philippine Sugar Centrals
Agency.
1837
May 15
Second Exanination of Mr. Yuni.
1838
May 15
Second Examination of Mr. Richardson.
1839
May 15
Second Examination of Mr. Johnson.
1840
May 15
Second Examination of Mr. Johansen.
1841
May 15
Second Examination of Mr. Caldwell.
1842
May 15
Address Made by Mr. Neville.
1843
May 15
Second Examination of Mr. Schmidt.
1844
May 15
Letter of Introduction of the Veterans of
Foreign Wars to the Emperor of Japan.
1845
May 15
Visit of Veterans of Foreign Wars to Japan.
1846
May 15
Return of Code Tables.
1847
May 15
Southward Advance Policy of Japan.
1848
May 15
Japanese Trade with Latin America.
1849
May 15
German Economic Mission to the Far East.
1850
May 15
Smuggling in North China.
1851
May 16
Diplomatic Visa Report.
1852
May 16
Return of Code Tables.
1853
May 16
Travel Account of Mr. Warner.
1854
May 16
Mr. Crocker's Cost of Living Allowance.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
No.
Date
Subject
1855
May 19
Japanese Ratification of the International
Convention for the Suppression of Obscene
Publications.
1856
May 21
Sale in the Orient of Imitation Parker
Fountain Pens.
1857
May 25
Diplomatic Visa Roport.
1858
May 25
Japanese Trade Adjustment and Protection Law.
1859
May 26
"Manchukuo" Patent Law.
1860
May 27
American Oil Interests in Japan.
1861
May 28
Japanese Cotton Exports to the Uniteo States.
1862
May 28
Sendine of Code Books to Peiping.
1863
May 28
Leave of Absence for Mr. Cooper.
1864
May 28
Appointments of Japanese Army and Navy Ministers.
1865
May 28
Sino-Japanese Relations.
1866
May 29
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
1867
May 29
Cuestion 4 of the International Radio Commission.
1868
May 29
Smugeling in North China.
1869
May 29
Proccedings of the Diet.
1870
May 29
Meeting of the Association of Military Surgeons.
1871
May 29
Provisional Arrest of Si Reubens.
1872
May 29
Automobile Industry Control Law.
1873
May 29
Salaries of Embassy Translators.
1874
May 30
Naval Disarmament.
1875
May 30
Diplomatic Visa Report.
1876
May 29
Seditious Literature and Mobilization Secrets
Bill.
1877
May 30
Cost of Shipment of Archives to the Department.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING MAY, 1936.
No.
Date
Subject
92
May 2, 11 a. m.
Detention of Si Reubens.
93
May 5, 4 p. m.
Requisition for funds.
94
May 6, noon
Smuggling in North China.
95
May 6, 6 n. m.
Speeches of members of Cabinet in the
Diet.
96
May 7, 10 a. m.
From Commercial Attaché for Commerce.
97
May 7, 6 p. m.
Report that Japan is considering
laying a 50,000-ton battleship.
98
May 8, 11 a. m.
Receipt of cipher tables.
99
May 8, noon
Receipt of cipher tables.
100
May 8, 1 p. m.
Receipt of cipher tables.
101
May 9, 10 a. m.
Departure of fishing vessels for
Bering Sea.
102
May 12, 10 e. m.
Withdrawal of Ramos' visa application.
103
May 12, noon
Mr. Parsons' Foreign Service Examination.
104
May 13, 11 a. m.
Smugeling in North China.
105
May 15, 10 a. n.
Departure of Mr. Crocker.
106
May 15, noon
Japan's naval views.
107
May 16, 11 a. m.
Departure of American Veterans of
Foreign Wars delegation.
108
May 18, 2 p. m.
Smuggling in North China.
109
May 20, noon
Smuegling in North China.
110
May 21, 10 a. m.
Smurgling in North China.
111
May 23, 11 a. m.
Increase in Japanese North China garriso:
112
May 23, 7 p. m.
Passage of Automobile Industry Law.
113
May 25, 5 p. m.
Increased duties on Japanese cotton
goods imported into the United States.
114
May 27, 6 p. m.
Smuggling in North China.
115
May 30, 10 a. m.
Visit of the U. S. S. GOLD STAR.
116
May 30, noon
British interests in Manchuria.
117
May 30, noon
Smuggling in North China.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.93)
T
LEGAL AUYISER
416 17 89379
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
THE FOREIGN SERVIC
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 1942
DIVISION OF
BUBJECT:
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MOTH OF JUNE, 1936.
1936
794.00PR
DIVISION
For Dol-buon. Cleck
No
AUG 8-
Grude
DEFARTMENT
OF STATE
CNI MID
LUSA
Commiice-Ireerptaoindicaled
AUG3 1936
pasx 2n
A·C/C
A
RCOPIES SENT TO
y F E (381)
RECORDING DSK
FILE
O.N.I. AND M. I,D.
894.00
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
d
hu
Honorable
peus
30m
OF TATE
The Secretary of State,
c/c
Washington.
3da
TATE
03
With reference to the Denartment's instruction
No.
93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
1/ herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions
in Japan for the month of June, 1936.
Respectfully yours,
P00.
GDA:c/m
Joseph C. Grew
AUG 17 1936
800
FILED
Enclosure:
1/ Report No. 117
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
F/FG
Embassy, Moscow
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Kobo
Consulate, Dairen
In quintuplicate to the Department
cofy retarind for note

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.94)
NO. 117
REFORT OIF COIDITIONS IH JAFAN DURING
THE CITE OF JUNE, 1936.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXAND
SUMMARY
I. RELATIONS ITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a). American Oil Interests.
1
(b) Visit to American Ports of Japanese
Naval Training Squadron.
1
(c)
Visit to Japan of Admiral Murfin.
2
(a)
Davao Land Problem in the Philippines.....
(e)
Smuggline in North China.
2,3
(f)
Alleged Protests by the American and
French Embassies in Peiping.
3
II.
RELATIONS :VITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a)
China.
4,5,6
(b)
Soviet Russia.
6,7,8
(c)
"Manchukuo".
8
(a)
Great Britain
to Japan.
8, 9
(2)
Trade Negotiations between Japan
and Egypt.
9
(e)
Australia.
9
(f)
France.
9
(ε)
The Netherlands.
10
(h)
Germany.
10
(i)
Brazil.
11, 12
(j)
Siam
12
(k)
Chile.
12
(1)
Paraguay..
12
(m)
Nicararua.
12
(n)
The Naval Issue.
13
(0)
International.
13, 14
III.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
III. INTERNAL TOLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a)
The Cabinet.
14,15,16
(b)
The Army..
. 19,17,18
(c)
The Navy.
18
(a)
The Throne..
18, 19
(e)
Folitical Parties.
19
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
19, 20
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FIIANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a)
Foreign Trade..
20
(b)
Industries.
20
(c) Civil Aviation.
20
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothine to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FO:EIGU CONTERCIAL INTERESTS;
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION:.
21
X.
MISCELLANEOUS:
21

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). American Oil Interests.
With the authorization of their head offices, on
June 26 the local representatives of the Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company and the Rising Sun Petroleum Company
made
the following statement to the Vice Minister for Commerce
and Industry, on the agreement that the Japanese authorities
would not enforce a reduction of the companies' import and
sales quotas: "The companies are now negotiating a special
arrangement to enable them to fulfill their obligation
under the Petroleum Law and have reached an agreement in
principle".* It appeared that the statement issued by the
oil companies would be accepted by the Japanese authorities.
The proposed plan for cooperation between the Standard-
Vacuum Company and the Rising Sun Petroleum Company on the
one hand and the Mitsui interests on the other hand appeared
at the end of the month to be acceptable in principle to
both parties, although there was some disagreement con-
cerning details.**
(b). Visit to American Ports of Japanese Naval
Training Squadron.
A Japanese naval training squadron consisting of the
over-age cruisers IWATE and YAKUMO under the command of
Vice Admiral Zengo Yoshida sailed from Japan on June 9
on a foreign cruise to include visits at ports on both the
Pacific and Atlentic seaboards of the United States.
The
information available to the Embassy did not indicate that
there was any particular political significance in this
naval cruise.***
(c).
*
Embassy's telegram No. 137 of June 23, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1914 of June 26, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 18e7 of June 11, 1936.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
(c). Visit to Japan of Admiral Murfin.
Admiral Orin G. Murfin, successor to Admiral Frank B.
Upham as Commander-in-Chief of the United States Asiatic
Fleet, made an official visit to Japan from May 25 to June 5
aboard his flagship the U. S. 3. AUGUSTA. The entertain-
ments given for the Admiral by the Japanese were those
generally accorded a visiting Commander-in-Chief of the
United States Asiatic fleet. However, the welcome given
him was especially cordial and appuared to denote a desire
on the part of the Japanese Navy for friendship with the
United States.*
(d). Davao Land Problem in the Philippines.
There seemed to be less interest in Japan in the Davao
land question, which may possibly be explained by the
assurance given to the Philippine Commonwealth Assembly on
June 16 by President Quezon that there was nothing in the
"so-called" Davao problem to cause serious concern.
(e). Smuggling in North China.
It will be recalled that on May 27 the Vice Minister
for Foreign Affairs asked the Counselor if the Embassy had
any data in its possession concernine the specific items
of American trede which were suffering from the smuggling
in North China.** In accordance with instructions received
from the Department,*** the Counsclor of the Embassy called
on the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs on June 3 and in
response to the latter's inquiry of May 27 orolly and
informally brought to his attention the Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company's assertion that the smuggling of kerosene and
gasoline
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1888 of June 11, 1936.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 114 of May 27, 1936.
***
Department's telegram No. 66 of June 1, 1936.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
gasoline into North China was seriously affecting its
business and threatened the existence of its trade in
that part of China between the borders of "Manchukuo"
and the Yellow River. In addition, the Counselor pointed
out that the sale and distribution of other items of
American trade were affected in a similar manner by the
influx of smuggled goods and reaffirmed the concern of
the American Government in the situation.* Mr. Horinouchi
made no comment regarding any future action or the attitude
of the Japanese Government in connection with the matter
and Mr. Neville obtained a definite impression from the
interview that other countries could expect no cooperation
from the Japanese Government at the present time in the
suppression of smuggling in North China.
(r).
. Alleged Protests by the American and French
Embassies in Peiping.
The JIJI of June 29 published inconspicuously as a
Domei report from Peiping an aocount of representations
made to the Japanese Embassy by the French and American
Embassies in Peiping which asserted that on June 23
Japanese guerds had threatened with bayonets American
and French officers in plain clothes.** According to the
JIJI, after consultin€ the military the Japanese Embassy
decided upon tho "rejoction" of these representations by
replying that Japanese soldicrs had not threatencd with
bayonets any foreigners and had had no intention of block-
ing traffic, and that groater caro would bc taken in
future to avoid similar regrcttablo misunderstandings
betwecn patrols and passers-by, which have occurred because
of language difficulties.
II.
Embassy's telegram No. 119 of June 3, 1936.
**
Department's telegram No. 84 of June 26, and Embassy's
telegram No. 142 of June 29, 1936.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
II. RELATIONS VITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a). China.
The tenseness which characterized Sino-Japanese
relations in May continued throughout the month of June.
New developments aggravated the situation created by
Japan's alleged aiding and abetting of the smuggling
operations in the East Hopei region and by the decision
of the Japanese War Ministry on May 15 to increase the
Japanese North China Carrison. On June 1 the Chinese
Ambassador in Tokyo was reported by the press to have
filed a protest from his Government with the Minister for
Foreign Affairs and Mr. Arita was said to have rejected
this protest. Upon his arrival in Tokyo on June 1, Lieu-
tenant-General Tada, former Commander of the North China
Garrison who had recently been transferred to the command
of the 1lth Division in Japan, was quoted by the JAPAN
TIMES to have asserted that the increase in Japan's North
China Garrison had to be taken for the protection of Japanese
residents in thc district and thct the hint of collusion
by Japanese troops in the North China smuggling was an
insult to the Japanese Carrison. In a conversation at
the War Department on Junc 24, the Embassy's Military
Attaché was informed that the movement of troops for the
reinforcement of the North China Garrison had been com-
pleted and that the Garrison had a strength of slightly
under 5,000 men.*
Mr. Suma, Japanese Consul General at Nanking until
recently on leave in Japan, continued to make statements
to the press, none of which were so blunt, however, as
the one made on May 3o to the effect that he had told
Chiang
* Embassy's telegram No. 139 of June 24, 1936.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
Chiang Kai-shek that "China must now choose between
mutual interdependence with Japan or war with Japan".*
Mr. Suma sailed for his post from Kobe on June 16, report-
edly remarking to a correspondent of the OSAKA MAINICHI
that if General Chiang Kai-shek wants to avoid the collapee
of China "the quicker he shakes hands with Japan and works
side by side with her the better it will be for China."
Mr. Shigeru Kawagoe, recently appointed Ambassador to
China who had been having conversations with Mr. Suma
on Sino-Japanese relations, left Tokyo for his new post
on June 16 and, according to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of
June 17, stated immediately prior to his departure that
political stability was needed in China before economic
assistance could properly be extended to that country.
With regard to the incipient civil war between the
Nanking Government and the Southwest factions, the JAPAN
MES of June 3 attributed to the Foreign Office spokesman
the statement that Japan is accustomed to such anti-Japanese
declarations as those made by the Southwest authorities,
which are apparently issued for "home consumption". The
general attitude of the Japanese press toward the controversy
between the Nanking Government and Southwest China was one
of derision rather than concern, particularly in view of
the contestants' alleged predilection for the use of tele-
grams instead of weapons.
Further developments during the month were the follow-
ing: the anti-Japanese student movement in Peiping and
the alleged anti-Japanese agitation in the Southwest,
followed by Japanese protests in both instances; a Japanese
protest against the bombing of a Japanese military train
at Tientsin in the latter part of May; and the firing unon
Japanese
* Embassy's telegram No. 117 of May 30, 1936.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.96)
- 6 -
Japanese vessels reportedly engaged in snuggling by
Chinese patrol boats off Tientsin and Tsingtao, against
which the Japanese Embassy in Peiping is understood to
have filed a vigorous protest on the ground that the
Japanese vessels had not been engaged in smuggling.
Sensational reports appeared in the TOKYO NICHI NICHI
and tlhe HoCHI of June 7 to the effect that Creat Britain,
the Soviet Union, the Nanking Covernment, and the Southwest
factions were cooperatin to diminish Japanese influence
in China and that the anparent "revolution" of the Canton-
ese faction was merely an elaborate Britain-Nanking-Canton
plot to mobilize streneth in North China.
(b). Soviet Russia.
No serious Soviet-"Manchukuo" or "Manchukuo"-Outer
Mongolia frontier incidents took place during the month of
11
June and there seemed to be a temporary relaxation in the
1
tenseness of Joviet-Japanese relations.*
It was announced in the press on June 4 that Mr.
Ota, the Jananese Ambassador to the USSR, intended to
resien and it was rumored that his resicnation could be
attributed to the fact that he hed not been in favor with
the Army ever since his somewhat anti-milit ry speech in
Osaka about a year ago. Among the men mentioned to suc-
ceed r. Ota were Mr. To o, Director of the Europe and
Asia Bureau of the Foreign Office, Mr. Shigemitsu, former
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, and Mr. Taketomi,
Minister to the Netherlands. Mr. Youreneff, the Soviet
Anbassador to Japan, had planned to take a thrce months'
leave, departing fron Tokyo on June 25. However, the
Soviet
Embassy's despatches Nos. 1894 of June 13, and 1920 of
Junc 26, 1936.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
Soviet Embassy announced on June 13 that the Ambassador
had suddenly canceled his plans to take leave on instruc-
tions from Moscow and that he would remain indefinitely
at his post.
The points of view of the Japanese and Soviet Govern-
ments regarding the Soviet-"Manchukuo"-Korean borders
remained the same as they had been for the past several
years.
According to information obtained from the
Soviet Embassy, on June l0 Mr. Youreneff had an interview
with Premier Hirota, who brought up the question of the
EE
large number of Soviet troops stationed on or near the
Soviet-"Manchukuo"-Korean borders. The Soviet Ambassador
replied that his Government had in l931 proposed a non-
aggression pact, in reply to which Mr. Hirota shrugged
this suggestion aside with the statement, "We shall find
some other way".* Both the Foreign Office and the War
Ministry were reported to clinf to the hope for the
establishment of a demilitarized zone along the Soviet-
"Manchukuo" border. General Terauchi, the War Minister,
was stated by the press to have reiterated the Japanese
contention that in view of the strong Soviet forces along
the border a non-aggression pact between the two countries
would not provide sufficient security for Japan.
There appeared to be a growing tendency in Japan to
look with apprehension upon the improvement in recent
months of the Soviet Union's international position. The
Foreign Office was credited with the belief that Soviet
Russia was becoming more successful in its anti-Japanese
propaganda
* Embassy's telegram No. 133 of June 22, 1936.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
propaganda throughout the world as a result of this
improvement in its international position.
(c). "Manchukuo".
A treaty between Japan and "Manchukuo" was signed on
June 10 which was described by the Japanese Foreign Office
as the first step towards abolition of extraterritoriality
in anchuria.* Te treaty has to do primarily with ques-
tions concerned with the administration of the South Man-
churia Railway Z ne and the payment by Japanese of "Manchukuo"
taxes. It contenplates the withdrawal fron lMonchuria of
official Japanese police by the end of the year 1937 and
is to be followed by other agreenents for the extension
of Manchukuo" judicial euthority over Japanese residents
of Manchuria.
(d). Great Britain.
(1)
Visit to Japan of Sir Frederick Leith-Ross.
Sir Frederick Leith-Ross, Economic Adviser to the
British Government, arrived in Tokyo on June & upon the
invitation of the Japanese Governent**, being greeted by
a. representative of the Japanese military upon his errival,
WL
and departed for China on June 13. In the conversations
that took place between him and Japanese officials and
business leaders, the question of China's finances and
also that of smuggling in North China came in for discussion.**
It would not appear that any actual economic or financial
negotiations took place.****
The press reported that the
Ministers for Foreicn Affeirs, Jar, and the avy were agreed
that Japan's attitude towerd North China must necessarily
be dictated by its vital interests there and that Japan
could not agree with Dritish views which were based merely
on economic considerations.*****
Very
Embassy's telegram No. 125 of June 11, 1936.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 122 of June 8 and despatch
No. 1905 of June 16, 1936.
***
Embassy's telegram 1o. 123 of June 8, 1936.
****
Embassy's despatch 10. 1896 of June 12, 1935.
*****
Embassy's despatch 1o. 1897 of June 12, 1936.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
Very little seemed to have been accomplished through
Leith-Ross's visit. Because of certain political develop-
ments, particularly the smuggling question in North China,
the Japanese viewed Leith-Ross's activities with definite
distrust on the occasion of his second visit whereas only
vague suspicion had been nanifested at the time of his first
visit to Japan in September, lo35.*
(2)
Trade Negotiations between Japan and Egypt.
The JArAN TIES of June 11 reported that, according
to an official report received by the Japanese Foreign Office
from Japan's chief delegate in the trade negotiations with
Egypt, those negotiations hed virtually come to a standstill.
(e). Australia.
An Imperial Ordinance appeared in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE
of June 25, 1936, invokin the Trade Protection Law specifi-
cally against certain imports from Australia. In accordance
with the terms of this Ordinance, wheat, wheat flour, sheep
wool and vaste vool produced or manufactured in Australia
cannot be imported into Janan unless a permit of the com-
petent Minister of State is obtained therefor and Australien
beef, butter, condensed milk, hides and skins, beef tallov
and casein can be imported into Japan only upon the payment
of an import duty of 50% ad valoren in addition to the import
duty specified in the Tariff Law. This measure was adopted
in retaliation against the tariff measure enacted by the
Australian Government which increased duties on cotton and
rayon textiles imported into the Commonvealth. **
(f). France.
Monsieur Fernand Pila, having been retired by his Govern-
ment, left Tokyo on June 22.
(E).
*
Embassy's despatch o. 1896 of June 12, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatches No. 1918 of June 26, 1936, and
No. 1919 of June 26, 1936.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
(g). The Netherlands.
On June 8 the lone dravm out negotiations between
Japanese and Netherland Indies shipping interests came to
a successful conclusion with the si ning of an agreement
by representatives of the Java-China-Japan line and the
Nanyo Kaiyun Kaisha (the South Seas Shipping. Company).
According to the officiel announcenent made by the
Japanese Ministry of Communications on June 10, the agree-
ment provides that the Japanese Shippin: Company is to carry
64.25% of all available cerco fron Japan to the Netherland
Indies and 60% of such cargo fron the etherland Indies to
Japan, while the Netherland Indies shippinc company is to
carry 35.75, of all available cargo from Japan to the Nether-
land Indies and 40% from the Metherland Indies to Japan.
Domei (news a ency) of June 10 renorted that authorities
of the Japanese Foreign Office had expressed satisfaction
over the agreement and regarded the amicable settlement of
the shipping controversy es of value in expediting negotia-
tions for the solution of other oustanding problems between
Japan and the Netherland Indies.
(h). Germany.
The text of the German-"Manchukuo" trade areement
sicned on April 3o as a result of negotiations conducted by
Japan, 'Manchukuo", and the German Economic Mission headed
by Dr. Otto C. Kiep, was published in Hsinking on June 1.*
The purpose of the agreement, vhich went into effect on
June 1, is to facilitate the purchase of Manchurian products
by Germany and to increase the sale of Cerman coods in
Manchuria.**
(1).
*
Embassy's despatch o. 1796 of April 28, 1935.
**
Mukden's despatch .0. 272 of May 28, 1935.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
- 11 -
(i). Braz11.
On June 1s the razilian Anbassador to Japan delivered
to the Minister for Forein Affairs a fornal notice to the
effect that the Brazilian Covernlent would send an economic
nission to Japan next fall to return the visit of Japan's
economic mission to razil lest year, vhich was headed by
Ir. liachisaburo Hirao, the presont inister for Zducation.*
Accordine to the OSAMA AIICHI of June 18, the razilian
Mission, headed by Mr. Saligard, former Labor Minister, will
leave io de Janeiro on July 24 ana is expected to reach
Japan durin the latter part of September.
The OSAKA AII ICHI of June 18 attributed the following
statenents to the spokesmen of the Japanese Foreign Office
concernin the renort that the Brazilian Senate may nullify
the 2,410,000-acre land rant to a Japanese colonization
company in the 3tate of Amazones: that a provisional contract
was entered into between the State of Anazones and Japanese
settlers about seven years aco; thet the Brazilian Senate
apparently considers this contract null and void on the
grounds of its provisional character and of the lau enacted
two years aco providin that land concesslons of lar e
acreare must be a proved by the Federal Senate; and that
because of the stron anti-Japanese elements in the Brazilian
Senate, Japan must take stens to protect its vested richts
in Drazil.
The ASAII of June 18 contained a despatch from Rio de
Janeiro dated June 16 hich stated that the revised Immi-
gration Bill to be submitted. to the Brazilian Chamber of
Deputies
* Embassy's despatches Nos. 1305 of May 16, 1955, 1401 of
July 12, 1955, and 1556 of Novezber 20, 1935.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
- 12-
Deputies provides that agricultural laborers from Europe
under contracts with State Governments in Brazil shall be
eligible to immigrate into that country beyond the con-
L
stitutional limitation of 2%, a procedure evidently in
discrimination against Japanese inmigrants.
(j). ia.
According to the CHUCAI SHCGYO of June 15, conferences
between Osaka businessmen and r. Yunosuke Yasukawa, who
headed the Japanese Economic Mission which visited Siam
in March 1936, resulted in the conclusion that very little
could be done to promote Japanese-Siamese trade, principally
because of the dominant position of British capital in Siam.
(k). Chile.
On June 13 the Chilean Legation in Tokyo issued a
statement to the effect that it had received no official
information in connection with the reported visit to Japan
of a Chilean economic mission in the near future.
(1). Faraguay.
According to an Asuncion despatch dated June 23 from
the staff correspondent of the OSAKA AI. ICHI, Paraguay
decided on that day to restrict imports of Japanese coods,
especially textiles, in view of the fact that Japan does
not at present purchase enough Paraguayan ccods.
(m). Nicaragua.
Announcenent of the Japanese Government's recognition
on June 22 of the new Government of Nicaragua as the de
facto Government in that country vas published in the
OFFICIAL GAZETTE of July 1.
(n).

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
(n). The Navel Issue.
On June 23 the Cabinet approved the reconmendation of
the Ministers for the Navy and Foreien Affairs for the
refusal of the 3ritish invitation to adhere to the London
Three Tower aval Treaty. The reasons given by the press
for this decision were the folloving: Having withdrawn
from the London Navel Conference because of the rejection
of its demands for quantitative restriction and the abolition
of offensive arms, Japan sees no reason for its participation
at present in an acreement reached after its vithdrawal from
the Conference; and the London Treaty makes no quantitative
restrictions, is based primarily on a program of exchanging
building infornation, and is therefore of little assistance
to Japan.*
It was reported during the month that Japan agreed with
the contention of the United States that the British Govern-
ment shoula invoke the escalator clause of the ashington
and London Naval Treaties for the retention of excess
destroyer tonnage rather than retain such excess destroyer
tonnege merely through special agreement with other Fowers.**
At a meeting of the prefectural covernors, the Mavy Minister
was reported to have declared that if Japan neglected its
naval preparations for a monent it would lose its position
in East Asia and fail in its work of developing "Manctukuo"
and that therefore it was necessary for Japan to embark upon
a new naval replenishment
rogran unon the expirction of the
London Naval Treaty.
(0). Internetional.
In an address delivered at a meeting of thc prefectural
Covernors
Embassy's telegram No. 138 of June 24, 1935
** mbassy's despetch No. 1916 of June 25, 1956.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
Eovernors on June l3 the Ilinister for Foreign Affairs
referred to recent cases of unpleasant experiences of
foreign visitors in Japan and expressed the hope that the
prefectural authorities would exert their best efforts
in their treatment of foreigners. According to the JAPAN
TDS of June 22, on that day a conference of Foreign Office
and Home Office official and the prefectural governors was
lheld for the discussion of concrete steps to be taken for
better treatment of forei ners and it was agreed thet cere
shoula be taken not to irritate foreicners "unnecessarily".
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a)
The Cabinet.
Very little of a definite nature was decided upon by
894
the Government on the question of social, administrative,
and financial reforn, to Which program the irota Cabinet
had pledced itself shortly after its formation. On the
other hand, there was no indication that the Governnent
had in the slightest degree shaken itself free from the
influence of the Army, which has consistently clenored for
reform ever since the February 26 Incident in return for
the castigation of past offenders and the eradication of
potentially subversive elements in the Army. Political
observers opine that the so-called defense accounts, in
which considerable increases have been announced by the Var
and Navy Ministers, will have to be examined and approved
in some forn by the Government before consideration can be
civen to increased expenditures for social aid, the proposed
increase in taxes, and the plan for the expansion of state
monopolies.
Considerable

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
-15 -
Considereble attention ves given by the press to
what would come of the resolutions passed at the special
session of the Diet for the setting up of three committees:
one for the reforn of the House of Peers, another for the
reform of the Lower House, end the third for the revision
of the Electoral Law. At first the House of Peers as a
whole and its President, Frince Konoye, in particular were
reported to be oposed to the Government's plan for appoint-
ing a committee for the investigation of the reform of this
body. However, it was stated by the JAPAN ADVERTISER of
June 23 that on June 21 Frince Konoye had agreed with
Cabinet officials upon the establishment of such a com-
mittee. On June 12 the Cabinet had already approved the
appointment of commissions to investigate the reform of the
House of Representatives and of the Electoral Law.
Premier Hirote and his Cabinet were said to have
agreed in principlc on the establishment of a system of
Ministers without portfolio, vhich had been advocated by
the Army for the puroose of entrusting such inisters with
important decisions on national policy and leaving the
regular Cabinet Ministers free to attend to purely ad-
ministrative duties. At the end of the nonth, however,
it was reported by the newspapers that the Cabinet had
decided acainst the appointment at present of Ministers
vithout portfolio.
Addresses vere made by various Cabinet members at the
six-day conference of prefectural governors which lasted
from June 15 to June 20. The Fremier's principal speech
was vague and net with criticisn from the press on account
of its failure to nention eny of the details of the
Government's

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.97)
- 15 -
Governnent's pronised reform program. Both the Home and
Justice inisters issued warnings e einst possible sub-
versive activities, the forner stating that "dark under-
currents" were at work despite the ood order that had
been maintained since the February 26 Incident and the
latter assertinc thet many persons dissatisfied vith the
present national situation vere plotting renedies by direct
action. Vithout undertaking an explanation of the neasures
contenplated by the Governuent, the Finance Minister spoke
of the need for extendin relief to farming end fishing
communities and stressed nis Depertnent's intention of
bringing about a "arastic renovation" in the taxation
systen.
In short, the addresses of these Cabinet inisters
serve as an illustration of the apprehensiveness prevailing
after the insurrection of February 2, and the uncertainty
of the Covernment's ability to cope vit: the situation in
the lon run. There renains the possibility that while
the Army may prove capeble of establishin discipline
within its ridst for the present, of vhich anple manifesta-
tions have been given*, the Covernment nay by procrastina-
tion lose the confidence of the Arny cnd hence of a large
pert of the people.
(b). The Army.
According to press reports, the Army wes stronely in
994.)
favor of the establishment of an Air Ministry, in contrast
to the lukevarm attitudc adoyted by the Havy in this natter.
It was stated by the JAi Ai. C.RO ICi of June 2S that Army
authorities
* Embassy's despatch No. 1933 of June 8, 1933.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
- 17 -
authorities were eager to make Japanese aviation "the best
in the world five or ten years hence. Speculative reports
based on statements made by the ar and Javy Ministers during
the recent Diet session have placed the Army'. budget for
1937-1938 as hi{h as ¥750,000,000.
The JIJI of June 1S reported that plans were being made
for the organization of one million colle e and university
Craduates who have served in the Army as cadets into a body
of ex-service "intelli entsia" to act s e medium of contact
between the Aray and the people for the realization of the
renovetion policies of the Government and of the national
mobilization plans of the Army.
On June 2: the Liaison Officer of the .er Office told
the Embassy's Military Attaché definitely thet the officers
and non-corunissioned officers who participated in the
February 26 Incident were still undergoin( trial; that the
trial of the ringleadeis vould probably be comleted before
July l0; that the punishments decreed by the court would be
announced to the people tefore eny sentences were executed;
that martial law in Tokyo would probably not end by July 10
as announced by the press; and that a acte vhen the Army
hoped to lift martial law hcd been fixed but could not be
announced because it would be necessary to consider the
situation when that date arrived.*
This information was
interesting in view of runors extant thet many of the leaders
of the uprising had alreody been shot.
It wes renorted by the JAPAIi TIrS of June 26 that the
authorities had discovered and seized the first seditious
literature since the passage of the new law to suppress such
puslications
* bassy's telegram 0. 140 of June 24, 1936.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
publications,* a pamphlet entitled "Non-commissioned
Officers and Privates :ho Took Fart in the February 26
Incident".
(c). The Navy.
0
According to information obtained from the mbassy's
Naval Attaché, on June 1 the First Fleet was divided into
two Divisions, while a Third Aircraft Squauron was added to
the Second Fleet. The only reason Given by the Havy Depart-
nent for these chan es was that they were for the purpose of
strengthening the conbined fleet to meet the post-treaty
situation. Although the addition of the Thiru Aircraft
Squadron to the Second Fleet undoubtedly strengthens the
air arm of this fleet, the total number of battleships
operating in the First Fleet remains unchan ed and their
reorganization into two divisions is probably a step taken
for tactical reasons.
It vas reported that the Navy Ministry and the civil
branches of the Government were at odds over the appointment
of a new Covernor Ceneral for Fornose, the former strongly
insisting upon the appointment to this position of either an
Admirel on the active list or an Adniral from the reserve
list and the latter upholdin the twenty-year tradition of
having a civilian as Governor of the island.
The reason
Civen for the Navy's demand was that Japan must perfect
its defenses in the south, presumably in connection vith
the much talked of "southward economic advance".**
(a). The Throne.
Admiral Kantaro Suzuki, Court Chaaberlain, who was
attacked and wounded by the insurgents on February 26,
was
*
Embassy's despatch io. 1912 of June 23, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1798 of April 30, 1933.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
- 19 -
was reportedly considering resigning from his post and
Admirals Mineo Osumi, Kichisaburo Nonura, and Kiyotane Abo
were mentioned as the most likely candidates to succeed
Admiral Suzuki. The question of whether Admiral Suzuki
would resign after the attack upon him has been a subject
of speculation ever since February 26.*
(e). Political Parties.
Addressing a meeting of the linseito on June 10,
Mr. Machida, President of the party, stated that he was
ignorant as to exactly what administrative reforms the
Premier was going to effect, that the linseito party
earnestly desired the adoption of concrete measures of
reform, and that if the Cabinet's policy should be found
to be in conflict with the inseito's the party would have
to reconsider its attitude toward the Cabinet, which the
Minseito had agreed to support at the time of its formation.
According to a report in the JAPAII ADViRTISER of
June 3, the War Minister told Cabinet members on the
previous day that military circles were dissatisfied at
the failure of the political parties to make any move
toward self-purification. Ceneral Terauchi added that
the Army was making efforts to enforce stricter discipline
upon which question there had been much discussion in the
recent Diet session.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
For the purpose of increasing Government revenue,
the
* Embassy's despatch No. 1735 of March 19, 1936.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
- 20 -
the Finance lfinister was reported to be considering an
augmentation of rail fares and postal charges, in addition
to increasing taxes and issuing new red ink bonds in the
fiscal year 1936-1937.
VI.
GENERAL ECOUOLIC AD FI ANCIAL COLDITIONS.
(a). Foreign Trade.
Exports from Japan for June amounted to ¥208,491,000,
while imports were ¥229,214,000, which represented an
unfavorable balance of trade of ¥20,723,000 as compared
with an unfavorable balance for May of ¥21,577,000.
(b). Industries.
It vas stated by the JAPAI! ADVERTISER of June 19 that
Japanese industrialists 'were planning the establishment of
rour automobile factories in Japan under the protection of
the Automobile Industry Law.*
At the last meetin of the refectural governors the
Comnunications Minister stated that the Government planned
eventually to establish state control of the electric power
industry.
(c). Civil Aviation.
According to the JAPAI TI3 of June 22, the Litsui,
Mitsubishi, and Sumitono interests have made arrangements
with the Government to take up a large nunber of shares in
the civil aeronautical industry, the development of which
is also urged by the Army.**
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AILRICAN COIMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMLRCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
Ix.
* Embassy's despatches 1io. 1872 of May 29, and No. 1891
of June 11, 1936.
**See Section III (b) of this Report.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.95)
-21 -
LA. LABOR AND ELIGRATION.
According to the ASAHI of June 3, 1,335,736 workmen
employed in 6,175 industrial plants will receive the benefit
of the Discharge Allovence Law passed by the special session
994.504
of the Diet, effective on January 1, l937.
The Social Mass Party won tventy-two sests in the
elections for the Tokyo Frefectural Assembly, balloting for
vhich took place on June l0. This represented a distinct
gain as compared vith the last votinc for the Prefectural
Assembly, in which only one member of the ocial Mass
Party wes elected.
元.
MISCELLAIIEOUS.
As reported by the JAFAN ADVERTI3ER of June 14, the
increase in Japan's population for the year 1935 amounted
99001
to 1,028,623, the greatest annual increase in population
since the Japanese Governnent started keepin statistics
in 1898.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHES NT TO THE DEFART EIT
DURING JUNE, 1935
No.
Date
Subject
1878
June 3
Information Regardin Foreign Civil Services.
1879
June 4
Japan-Made ovelties Bearine Sinulation
of United 3tates Currency ITotes.
1880
June 6
Mint Interroratories for 195.
1881
June 8
Diplomatic Visa Report.
1882
June 10
Monthly olitical eport.
1883
June 10
National City Bak vs. Bank of "Manchukuo"
and J. C. lder.
1884
June 10
P.rpetual Leases.
1885
June 10
International Friendship Society of Japanese
Schoolchildren.
1886
June 11
Detinning Industry in Japan
1887
June 11
Forein Cruise of Japanese Haval Thaining
Gquedron.
1888 June 11
Visit to Japan of Admiral Murfin on the
U. S. S. AUGUSTA.
1889
June 11
FOREICN ELTICIB OF T U. ., 191O, RU3SIA.
1890
June 11
Invitation to Japnese Training quadron to
Visit California Pacific International
Exposition in Jan Diero.
1891
June 11
Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law.
1892
June 11
Missionaries in Manchuria.
1893
June 10
Naval Disarmament.
1894
June 13
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
1895
June 12
American Oil Interests in Ja an.
1896
June 12
Second Visit of Sir Frederick Leitlh-Ross to
Japan: cononic Aspects.
1897 June 12
Second Visit of Sir Frederick Leith-Ross to
Japan: Political Aspects.
1898 June 12
Japan-"Manchukuo" Treaty rovidinc for Partial
Abolition of Japanese xtraterritorial
Privileges in Manchukuo".
1899 June 12
Seizure of 0piun on January 14, 1956, at
Honolulu.
1900

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2-
NO.
Date
Subject
1900
June 12
Further Developments in the Jituation Created
by the February 26 Incident.
1901
June 13
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
1902
June 13
Cipher Tables.
1903
June 18
Anbassador's peech at the Anerican School, Tokyo.
1904
June 18
Visit of Dr. . i. dgell to Japan.
1905
June 16
Second Visit of Sir Frederick Leith-Ross to
Japan.
1906 June 18
Chinese American Bank of Cormerce vs. Anglo
and London Faris National Bank. Letters roratory
1907
June 19
Laying of Keel of U. S. 3. AL.
1908
June 20
Attitude of Japan Toverd the London Navel Treaty
of 1936.
1909 June 22
Seizure of Horphine at Portland, Oregon, on
December 4, 1935.
1910
June 22
Third Vorld Fower Conference, etc.
1911
June 22
TL FOREIGN THADE CF JAPAN, A STATISTICAL SURVEY.
1912
June: 25
Seditious iterature Bill.
1913
June 25
Control of Narcotic Drus in Japan.
1914
June 25
American Oil Interests in Japan.
1915
June 26
Articles on the Philippine Comonvealth by
Japanese.
1916
June 25
Haval Disarmament.
1917
June 26
Bond of Mr. U. A. Johnson.
1918
June 26
Translation of Imperial Ordinance lio. 124 of
June 25, 1936, invokin~ the Japanese Trade
Protection Lav against Australian Imports.
1919 June 26
Background of the Adontion by the Japanese
Government of Retaliatory Trede Measures
aainst Australia.
1920 June 26
Joviet-Japanese Relations.
1921
June 27
Letter regarding. Asphaltun Mine in California.
1922
June 27
Diploaatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
1923
June 27
Return to Fost, Second Secretary Cabot Coville.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.92)
LADVISER
DIVISION OF
SP251920
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
OOFATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND 1936 SFP 8 PM 2 31
AMERICAN EMBASSY9,
CSEP8 1936
CO
mekyo, Amst 20, 1966
ANDCORDS
JECT:
THE MONTH OF JULY, 1956.
N9
Division
FAR EASTERN
BEP
EP J-1936
131936
6u1
Department of State
DIVISION OF
MiD
eR
NEAR EASTERN
COPIES SENT TO
oF
SEP 29 1936
4.00
AND
CONFENENCES
A/0V
1936
.R./104
The Honorable
The Secretary or State
RA
222
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
1i
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions
in Japan for the month of July, 1936.
FILED
11936
Respectfully yours
oth6.
GDA:c/m
Joseph C. Grew
800
Enclosure:
1/ Report No. 118
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Embassy, Moscow
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate Gemeral, Harbin
Consulate, Kobe
F/FG
Consulate, Dairen
In quintuplicate to the Department
copy retarind for note.
fr

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
REPORT NO. 118
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF JULY, 1936

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a)
American Oil Interests in Japan.
1
(b)
Japanese Reaction to Rumored Sino-
American Loan Agreement.
2
Voagols tooi
258
C
American-Japanese Trade Relations.
. 3, 4
Japanese Students' Tour to the Philippines 4
II.
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRILS:
(a)
China.
. 4, 5
(b)
Soviet Russia.
5,6
(c)
Germany.
6
(a)
"Manchukuo"
7
(e)
Great Britain.
7
(f)
France.
8
(8)
Canada.
8
(h)
Siam
8
(i)
Guatemale.
8
(j)
Australia.
9
(k)
Naval Issue.
9, 10
III. INTERNAL FOLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a)
The Cabinet.
10, 11
(b)
The Army.
12, 13
(c)
Reactionaries.
13, 14
(a)
Communists.
14
(e)
Colonies.
14
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
14, 15
V.
GOVERNMENT FIJANCE:
15, 16
VI.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Foreign Trade....
16
(b)
Financial Trends..
16
(c) Civil Aviation.
17
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR AND EMIGRATION:.
 17, 18
X. MISCELLANEOUS:
Nothing to report.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). American Oil Interests in Japan.
During the month of July the local representatives
of the Standard Vacuum and Rising Sun Petroleum Companies
6363
continued their negotiations with the authorities of the
Japanese Ministry of Comnerce and Industry and also with
the Mitsui interests with a view to arriving at some sort
of agreement that would enable the Companies to meet the
requirements of the Petroleum Industry Law and at the s ame
time would allow the Companies to operate profitably in
Japan. These negotiations appeared to be making favorable
progress, the representatives of the oil interests reporting
to the Embassy that agreement had been reached in principle
both with the Japanese authorities and with the Mitsui
interests.*
(b).
Embassy's despatch No. 1938 of July 10, and No. 1977 of
August 6, 1936.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2-
(b).
. Japanese Reaction to Rumored Sino-American
Loan Agreement.
CA
The NICHI NICHI of July 13 stated that the United
515
States and China had reached an agreement providing for
a ion -tern credit to China to be used in buying American
893.
airplanes, automobiles, and munitions of war. A Domei
news despatch from Shanghai dated July 20, confusing the
silver and currency stabilization agreement already reached
between China and the United States with the alleged com-
mercial and loan agreement, referred to the rumored under-
standing as an American credit to China to finance the
purchase of munitions.* On July 2l the rumor was denied
by United States Treasury Department officials.** Before
the denial of the rumor, and even afterwards, the Japanese
press expressed resentment over the Sino-American agreement,
particularly on account of its alleged political character.***
The spokesman of the Japanese Foreign Office stated
on July 22 that no official reports of the alleged Americen
loan to China had been received and declined to comment on
what Japan would think of the loan if the rumor were true.
Nevertheless, the attitude of the Japanese press reflected
the opinion of the Japanese Govcrnment on loans to China
by third Powers, as exprossed in the Amau statement of
April 17, 1934.***
*
Embassy's telegram No. 160 of July 21, 1936.
**
Department's telegram No. 96 of July 21, 1936.
***
Embassy's desnatch No. 1957 of July 23, 1936.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
-32
EA
4.
American-Japanese Trade Relations.
It was reported by the JAFAN ADVERTISER of July 4
that leaders of the Japan Economic Federation and officials
of the Foreign Office, including Baron Senosuke Goh, Count
Aisuke Kabayama, and the Japanese Consul General in New
York, had held a meeting on July 2 to discuss measures to
meet American restrictions on Japanese imports and had
agreed upon the following program: in view of the peculiar
nature of the political structure of the United States, Japan
should pay more attention to the attitude of American
financiers than to that of the United States Government;
Japanese financial interests should send representatives
to the United States to discuss the situation with the
Tariff Commission and others directly concerned, rather
than leave the mattor of adjustment in the hands of the
Japanose and American Governments; and an economic mission
should be sent to the United States at the earliest possible
date to negotiate for adjustment of relations covering all
categories of Japanese exports to the United States.
The OSAKA MAINTCHI of July 24 reported that the Foreign
Office had decided upon the necessity of organizing a
Japanese-American Trade Commission to be composed of mer-
chants, Government officials, and officials of the Embassies
and

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
and Consulates of the two countries. The Foreign Office's
aim is said to be the alleviation of Japan's unfavorable
balance of trade.
(d
Japanese Students' Tour to the Philippines.
A group of eighty-one students from the principal
Japanese universities and colleges left Japan on July 17
on a good will tour of the Philippines sponsored by the
OSAKA MAINICHI and the TOKYO NICHI NICHI.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a).
China.
94
Tue two principal matters of interest in the tangled
Sino-Japanese situation during the month of July were
Japan's complicity in the smuggling in North China and
Japan's apparent apprehension over Chiang Kai-shek's
successful suppression of the rebellion in the Southwest
and his consequent bid for increased control of North China.*
It appeared that Japan had come to the realization that
something should be done to solve the smuggling problem.
The solution considered, however, was one favorable to
Japan, since it was based on Chinese responsibility for
and Japanese innocence in the smuggling operations. Mr.
Kawagoe, the Japanese Ambassador to China, Mr. Amau, the
Foreign Office spokesman, and Mr. Kuwashima, Director of
the East Asia Bureau of the Foreign Office, all reportedly
stated that the solution of the problem could best be
effected by a substantial reduction by the Nanking Govern-
ment of its "excessively high" customs duties.
Press comment on the failure of the Southwest rebellion
was in general to the effect that while Generai Chiang Kai-
shek was to be congratulated on his efforts to unify China,
such unification could not fail to damage Japanese interests
if
*. Embassy's despavch No. 1959 of July 23, 1936.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
if the General directed his attention toward establishing
control over North China and putting down the "autonomy
movements" in that region. Tho Japanesc newspapers appeεred
to be particularly fearful lest Chiang Kei-siek omploy
Western aid in his unification program. This apprehension
was magnified by the reported Sino-German and Sino-American
loan agreements.*
Mr. San Ping-yu and other allegedly self-appointed
members of thc Chinese Consulatc in Seishin, Korea, were
arrestcd by the Japanose police and military authorities
on charges of espionage on July 16. On July 25 the Com-
mander of the Korcan Garrison issued a statement to the
effect that investigation of the activitics of thcse Chinesc
proved that they had been activcly engagcd in espionage.
(b). Soviet Russia.
EE
Thore were fow developments of intcrest in Sovict-
94
Japancsc relations during the month. Tho border incidents
761.
that took place werc unimportant and consequcntly Japanese
Government officials and the press cvinccd lcss interest
in Sovict Russia.**
No roply was reccived from the Sovict Government to
thc Japanose-"Manchukuo" proposal for thc cstablishment
of two castern border commissions, one to settle frontier
disputes and thc other to redemercato the frontier. It
was announced by the press on July 24 that the Sovict-
"Manchukuo" waterways conference which had convened at
Blagovoschcnsk on the first of Junc was about to cnd in
failure for tho reasons that it had becn unable to make
any progress in setting up rulcs of navigation, cstablishing
border
Sec Scctions I (b) end II (c) of this rcport.
**
Embassy's despatchcs Nos. 1943 of July 10, cnd 1954
of July 22, 1936.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
border lines in rivers, and surveying river channels.*
In an interview on July 30, the Soviet Ambassador
in Tokyo complained to the Minister for Foreign Affairs
that the Japanese police were treating members of the
Soviet Embassy in Tokyo in a discriminatory manner through
excessive surveillance on the ground of providing personal
protection. According to the newspapers, the Minister for
Foreign Affairs rejected the complaint, stating that it
was necessary to accord the Soviet Embassy as much "pro-
tection" as was given by the Soviet authorities to the
Japanese Embassy in Moscow.
(c). Germany.
HNE
It was reported during the early part of the month
that a ¥10,000,000 credit and trade agreement had been
signed by China and Germany in Berlin. The reported agree
ment was attacked by the Japanese press because of its
alleged political and military significance. In fact, the
Japanese Ambassador in Borlin was said to have made inquiries
concerning the border agrcemcnt because it was calculated
to have political effects on the Far Eastcrn situation as
a whole. Although the Gorman Forcign Office was reported
to have assurcd the Japanese Ambassador that thc solc aim
of the agreement was to strengthen commcrcial relations
between China and Germany, the vernacular newspapers con-
tinued to assail both Germany and China. The principal
intcrest in the affair is that it is the first tost case
as to what concrete action will be taken by Japan in line
with the Amau statcment of April 17, 1934.**
(a).
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1971 of August 6, 1936.
**
Embassy's dcspatch No. 1957 of July 23, 1936.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
(a). "Manchukuo".
The Japan-"Lanchukuo" agreement providing for partial
abolition of Japan's extraterritorial rights in Manchukuo",
which had been signed on June 10, came into force on July 1.
According to a Domei despatch from Hsinking dated July 1,
the "Manchukuo" Minister for Foreign Affairs issued an
official statement on that day in which he clearly indi-
cated that the authorities in Manchuria would grant no
greater privileges to other nations than to Japan.* The
argument used by the "Manchukuo" Minister for Foreign
Affairs was the well-known one, namely, that although
"Manchukuo" had issued a statement and addressed communi-
cations to the Powers to the effect that it would respect
those rights enjoyed by foreign countries by virtue of
their treaties with China, those countries that have ignored
that statement and those communications are "not in a
position to claim rights on the strength of this uni-
lateral declaration of the "Manchukuo" Government.
WE
(e). Great Britain.
It was reported by the ASAHI of July 19 that the
PC
94
Emperor had decided to send his congratulations to King
Edward VIII by Prince Chichibu on the occesion of the coro.
741.
nation of the British monarch in May 1937.
A press campaign was started on July 28 which atibuted
to Japanese officials and prominent men in British political
life a desire for renewal of some sort of friendship
similar to that which existed during the period of the
Anglo-Japanese Alliance.**
(f)
*
Embassy's telegram No. 144 of July 1, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1970 of August 6, 1936.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
WE
(f). France.
According to the JAPAN TIMES of August 4, on July 1
a trade agreement was concluded between the Government of
Syria and the Japan-Africa-Near East Export Association
providing that the Japan-Africa-Near East Export Association
shall levy an export control fee of 3% ad valorem on all
shipments from Japan to Syria; that the funds obtained from
this fee shall be used for indemnifying Japanese importers
for any losses that may be incurred in buying Syrian staple
products, such as raw cotton and wool; that the Government
of Syria shall cooperate with the Association in preventing
the importation of Japanese goods other than those identified
by the Association; and that the Government of Syria shall,
as hitherto, impose the minimum tariff on Japanese goods.
(g). Canada.
Sir Herbert Marler, the Canadian Minister, sailed from
Japan on July 3, having been transferred to Washington.
(h). Siam.
The JAPAN ADVERTISER of July 1O reported that Mr.
Itaro Ishii, Japanese Consul General in Shanghai, had been
apnointed Minister to Siam.
LA
(i). Guatemala.
According to the OSAKA LAINICHI of July 1O, on July 8
VD
the Foreign Office received an official report from the
Japanese Chargé d'Affaires in Mexico City, who had been
informed by the Guatemalan Minister for Foreign Affairs in
reply to an inquiry that the Presidential decree issued on
May 18 providing for the exclusion of Asiatics from Guatemala
did not apply to Japanese, since the term Asiatic used in
the decree implied persons born in Continental Asia.
(3).

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
WEA
(j). Australia.
On July 8 the Australian Government put in force a
special license system for imports of Japanese goods in
retaliation against the invocation of the Trade Protection
Law against Australian imports, which step had been taken
by Japan on June 25, 1936, as a reprisal against the raising
of the Australian customs tariff against Japanese textiles
in February, 1936.* A few days later the Australian Govern-
ment reportedly offered to suspend provisionally its new
action taken against Japanese goods and to begin fresh
negotiations for the conclusion of a commercial treaty
between the two countries. The Japanese Government flatly
rejected this offer. However, a week later the Japanese
Government offered to resume the trade negotiations with
Australia on a status quo basis and this offer was accepted
by the Australian Government.
Apparently Japan's motive in offering to resume negotia-
tions on a status quo basis, though not on the condition of
temporary withdrawal by Australia of its import license
system, was that this country wished to open the trade
parleys without prejudice to the satisfactory conditions
that prevailed before February of this year. It was probably
felt that Japan's bargaining position would be weakened by
accepting a concession from Australia before the negotiations
commenced.
(k). The Naval Issuc.
NE
It appeared that Japan had no intention of altering
its stand against adherence to the l936 Tripartite London
Treaty. The Japanesc press went so far as to state that
Japanese
Embassy's despatch No. 1918 of June 26, and No. 1919 of
June 26, 1936.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
Japanese naval authorities had no false hopes that the
United States would abide by the l4-inch gun limit of
the Treaty.*
NE
On July 20 Japan signed the Montreux Treaty for
rearming of the Dardanelles Straits, with the following
reservations: that various provisions of the Treaty
shall not modify the position of Japan as a non-League
Power; and that Japan will reserve freedom of interpret-
ing the closing of the Straits and restriction of the
passage of warships by Turkey in case it is recognized
by the League of Nations that there is danger of war and
also freedom of interpreting the right of passage through
the Straits by warships for the performance of duties under
mutual aid treaties between Turkey and other Powers. Japan
was at first apparently reluctant to sign the Montreux
Treaty. However, this country seemed to feel the pressure
of international alliances to which it is not a party and
to fear that if it shoul d become too isolated from the
other Powers its diplomatic position in Europe might suffer.**
It was probably these considerations that prompted Japan
to sign the Treaty.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet.
Vory little was done by the Government toward carrying
out the policies announced shortly after the Incident of
8
February 26 and consequently the Cabinet continued to be
critlcized by the Army and the newspapers. However, it was
announced by the press that the Cabinet had decided to
consider the following "truly important" policies:
1.
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1936 of July 9, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1953 of July 22, 1936.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11
1. Increase of defensive equipment, submitted
by the War and Navy Ministries.
2.
Readjustment of taxation, including a tax
increase, submitted by the Finance Ministry.
3. Nationalization of electric power, submitted
by the Communications Ministry.
4.
Central control of fuel, submitted by the
Commerce and Industry Ministry.
5.
Extension of the term of compulsory education,
submitted by the Education Ministry.
6. Revision of the agricultural village and land
system, submitted by the Agriculture and
Forestry Ministry.
It having been decided that the Cabinet as a whole
would consider the administrative and social reforms
proposed by the various ministries, a meeting to this
effect was held on July 10. After this meeting, however,
it was announced that the policy of consideration of the
national policy plans by the Cabinet as a whole had been
abandoned owing to the large number of such plans, friction
among Cabinet members, and dissatisfaction on the part of
the Wer and Navy Ministries, which wanted priority to be
given to their plans and budgets. Therefore it was decided
that the respective ministries would submit their individual
plans in writing to the Premier and the Finance Minister,
who would later submit to the Cabinet Council those plans
deemed feasible. Apparently Premier Hirota had decided
that it was necessary to allot first the minimum which the
defense services could be induced to accept and later to
consider the plans of the other Ministries in the light
of the money remaining.* It appeared to be fairly obvious
that the defense Ministries, particularly the War Ministry,
were asserting control over the Government. At the same
time the Army continued to express its dissatisfaction
with the Hirota Cabinet.
(b).
* Embassy's despatch No. 1952 of July 22, 1936.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
- 12 -
(b). The Army.
0
It was announced by the War Office on July 3 that
Lieutenant Colonel Saburo Aizawa, murderer of Lieutenant
General Tetsuzan Nagata, had on that day been executed.*
(A0
An announcement was made by the Var Office on July 7
to the effect that of 19 officers, 75 non-commissioned
officers, 19 privates, and l0 civilians tried for partici-
pation in the February 26 Incident the following had been
sentenced: 13 officers and 4 civilians to death; 5 officers
to life imprisonment; 1 officer, 17 non-commissioned
officers, and 6 civilians to imprisonment of from 2 to 15
years; 27 non-commissioned officers and 3 privates to
imprisonment of from 18 months to two years, with stay of
execution for three years. In the judgment handed down by
the court martial the reason given for the sentences of
death and life imprisonment was that the officers concerned
had employed the Imperial Army without Imperial sanction.**
The announcement of the War Office stated further that. the
court martial had taken into consideration the purity of
the young officers' motives but had been forced to condemn
them for the reason stated above.***
On July 12 the Ministry of War issued a second announce-
ment to the effect that 15 persons sentenced to death on
July 5 had been executed on July 12.**** Of these 15 men,
13 were former officers of the Army and 2 were civilians.
No mention was made of the other two civilians sentenced
to death on July 5 and it appeared that their execution
had
*
Embassy's telegram No. 147 of July 3, 1936.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 149 of July 17, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 1935 of July 8, 1986.
****
Embassy's despatch No. 1952 of July 22, 1936.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
had been postponed to enable the court martial to gather further
information from them.
Martial law in Tokyo was lifted at midnight on July 17,
about four months and a half after it had been decreed.
According to a War Office communiqué issued on July 31,
the court martial on July 29 sentenced Captain Ichitaro
Yamaguchi and 5 other Army officers to varying terms of
imprisonment.* Captain Yamaguchi was sentenced to life
imprisonment on the charge of having connived at the plans
of the insurgents. The sentences of the 5 other officers
varied from 4 to 6 years.
On July 25 it was announced in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE
that on August 1 the Army's Air Force would be concentrated
under a newly instituted Air Force Headquarters which would
be commanded by a general or a lieutenant-general appointed
directly by the Emperor and which would be comparable in
status to the War Ministry, the General Staff, and the
Inspectorate-General of Military Education.
It was reported that the War Minister desired appro-
priations of ¥3,300,000,000 during the next six years for
the replenishment of national defense. It is thought that
a large part of this sum will be used in strengthening the
Army's air force and in increasing the Japanese military
forces in Manchuria to approximately thc same strength as
that of the Sovict Far Eastern Army.**
(c). Reactionaries.
It was stated by the JAPAN ADVERTISER of July 2 that
*
Embassy's telegram No. 165 of August 1, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1935 of July 8, 1936.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
a movement had been started to combine all Japanese Rightist
groups into a new national reactionary party to be called
the Ishin Seito (Restoration Party). According to this news-
paper, the movement was started by the Seisanto (Production
Party), the largest reactionary group in Japan, the Presi-
dent of which is Mr. Ryohei Uchida, with Mr. Mitsuru Toyama
and Mr. Yoshi Hisa Kuzuo as advisers.
(a). Communists.
According to the MIYAKO of July 14, the police were
convinced that they had taken into custody all the Communists
in the country after their raids of July 10 and 12. Con-
sequently, it was said that the police would now devote
their energies to rounding up dangerous reactionaries.
(e). Colonies.
The JIJI SHIMPO and the MIYAKO SHIMBUN of July 5
reported that the Overseas Minister had obtained promises
of resignation from General Ugaki, Governor General of
Korea, and Mr. Kenzo Nakagawa, Governor General of Formosa,
and tiat these positions would be filled, respectively, by
General Jiro linami, former Commander of the Kwantung Army
and frrmer Ambassador to "Manchukuo", and Admiral Saizo
Kobayashi, who was retired after the February 26 Incident.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Imperial Ordinances governing the Automobile Manu-
facturing Industry Law were published in the OFFICIAL
GAZETTE of July 10 and the law went into effect on the
following day. The purposes and provisions of the law
have already been reported to the Department.*
The
Embassy's telegram No. 152 of July 10, despatches No. 1891
of June 11 and No. 1944 of July 14, 1936.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.96)
, 15 -
The JAPAN TIMES of July 16 stated that the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry had decided to submit to the
next session of the Diet a cill providing for the control
of Japan's foreign merchandise trade by the Government.
0
It was reported that the Home Ministry was preparing
γ
an air defense law, the principal provisions of which are:
892
the bill if enacted into law will be applicable to the six
1.0
largest cities of Japan; in Tokyo the 15 wards in the
central part of the city will be set aside as the first
fire zone, where wooden frame buildings will be prohibited
and where, if possible, all houses will be provided with
basements; in the 20 remaining wards, which were formerly
outside the city limits, boulevards 3oo feet wide known
as "velvet zones" will be constructed to afford shelter
to refugees in time of emergency and also to serve as
transport roads over which anti-aircraft guns and other
armaments can be easily moved; all city telephone, tele-
graph, and lighting wires must be laid underground; alleys
and side streets will be widened sufficiently to allow the
easy passage of fire engines; and gas tanks and reservoirs
will be concealed. The OSAKA MAINICHI of July 3O under-
stands that the law is scheduled to go into effect on
Apri1 1, 1938.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
The ASAHI of July 19 stated that the Finance Ministry
94.
had decided to submit at the next session of the Diet, to
be held in December, the Ministry's tax increase plan
but to postpone consideration of all taxation reform
schemes for some time.* It is understood that there will
be
Embassy's despatch No. 1952 of July 22, 1936.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16 -
be an increase in nearly all classes of tares as well as
the imposition of a few new taxes and that the plan will
produce additional revenue of ¥343,500,000 yearly. In
the future it is said that consideration will be given to
taxation reform schemes with the object of decreasing the
burden on the rural communities and increasing the burden
of the financial groups and the industrialists.
According to press reports, the Finance Ministry's
tax increase plan is meeting with opposition from the
military and also from the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce. In
a newspaper interview with Domei on July 26 General Tera-
uchi, the War Minister, stated that he was doubtful of
the efficacy of a tax increase and that in his belief the
Government should withdraw its tax increase plans and
obtain new funds only through bond issues.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
EA
(a). Foreign Trade.
Japan's exports for July were ¥222,895,000 and its
imports were ¥203,246,000, which represented a favorable
trade balance of y19,649,000 as compared with unfavorable
trade balances for May and June of ¥21,677,000 and ¥20,723,000.
respectively.*
(b). Financial Trends.
There were very large movements of funds during the
month, due principally to the conversion issue of national
bonds and to the increase in stock payments; the stock
market was more or less stagnant; postal savings increased;
and the average yen rate for the month was $0.29-1/4.*
(c).
* Information obtained from the Commercial Attaché's office.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
二17
(c). Civil Aviation.
According to the ASAHI of July 27, four new domestic
airlines aggregating 938 miles in length will be opened
for service on October 1 of this year by the Japan Air
Transport Company, partly with the aid of Government funds.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
Ix.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION.
At a general meeting of the Shakai Taishuto (Social
4
Masses Party) at Osaka on July 16, a resolution was adopted
pledging the party to the establishment of parliamentary
government in the interests of the working classes, nationali-
zation of important industries, stabilization of the national
living, and the overthrow of the Hirota Cabinet. It was
reported that a number of Leftist labor organizations not
affiliated with the Shakai Taishuto had decided to offer
their support to this party for the promotion of the
general welfare of the working classes.
Toward the end of the month leaders of the New Japan
Seamen's Union reportedly decided to go on strike through
dissatisfaction over the Shinowners' Association's attitude
toward retirement allowances and minimum wages. However,
on July 29 the Shipowners' Association recognized the
Seamen's right to collective bargaining and the leaders
of the union decided not to strike. It was reported that
the prospects for an amicable settlement of the controversy
were hopeful at the close of the month.
The Japanese press stated that the Overseas Ministry
had

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
- 18-
had drafted a plan for the settlement of five million
Japanese in Manchuria over a period of twelve years at
a cost of ¥2,000,000,000, of which sum the Japanese
Government would furnish y800,000,000.* It was further
reported that 50,O00 emigrants would proceed to Manchuria
in the fiscal year 1937-1938, and that thereafter the
number would gradually increase each year.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.
*********
* Embassy'& despatch No. 1956 of July 23, 1936.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 1.00)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING JULY, 1936.
No.
Date
Subject
1924
July 1
Completion of the U. S. S. CLARK.
1925
July 1
Quarterly Report on Combined Quarters.
1926
July 1
Report on Codes.
1927
July 2
Raising of Grade of Consulate at Yokohama.
1928
July 3
Diplomatic Visa Report.
1929
July 3
Presentation of Archaeological Specimens by
Imperial University to Harvard University.
1930
July 7
Fisheries.
1931
July 7
Cost of Living Allowances, 1937.
1932
July 7
Japanese Foreign Minister Discusses the
Chinese Problem.
1933
July 8
New Patent Law of "Manchukuo" and American
Interests in Manchuria.
1934
July 8
Office Organization and Administration in the
Foreign Service.
1935
July 8
Aftermath of the February 26 Incident.
1936
July 9
Naval Disarmament.
1937
July 8
Visits of American Vessels to the Japanese
Mandated Islands.
1938
July 10
American Oil Interests in Japan.
1939
July 10
Address Made by the Ambassador.
1:40
July 11
Accounts, Mr. Coville.
1941
July 11
Exchange of Soil Erosion Information.
1942
July 13
Monthly Political Report.
1943
July 10
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
1944
July 14
Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law.
1945
July 16
Third Quarterly Examination of Mr. Warner.
1946
July 16
Second Quarterly Examination of Mr. Emmerson.
1947
July 16 Exchange of Soil Erosion Information.
1948

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No. Date
Subject
1948 July 17 Completion of the U. S. S. QUINCY.
1949 July 22 Mint Interrogatories for 1935.
1950 July 22 Foreign Office Ordinances for the Control
of Japanese Narcotics Trafrickers in China
and Manchuria.
1951 July 22
Invitation to a Team of Japanese Military
Officers to Participate in International
Jumping Competitions of the Fifty-First
Annual Exhibition of the National Horse Show
Association.
1952 July 22 Aftermath of the February 26 Incident.
1953 July 22 Naval Disarmament.
1954 July 22 Soviet-Japanese Relations.
1955 July 23 Political Consequences of the Tokyo Incident
of February 26, 1936.
1956 July 23
Official Project for Settling Five Million
Japanese Emigrants in Manchuria in Twenty Years.
1957 July 23
Japanese Reaction to Reported Sino-German and
Sino-American Loan Agreements.
1958 July 24 Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
1959 July 23 Sino-Japanese Relations.
1960 July 28 Message from the Ambassador.
1961 July 31
International Friendship Society of Japanese
Schoolchildren.
1962 July 31
Consent of the Japanese Government to Publica-
tion of Certain Documents in FOREIGN RELATIONS
OF THE UNITED STATES, 1922.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING JULY, 1936
No. Date
Subject
144
July 1, 9 p. m.
Abolition of Extrality in Manchuria.
145
July 1, 10 p. m.
Death Sentence on Aizawa.
146
July 3, 11 a. m.
Proposed Visit of U. S. S. ALDEN to
Japanese Mandated Islands.
147 July 3, 1 p. m.
Execution of Aizawa.
148
July 6, noon
Activities of Fishing Vessel CHICHIBU
MARU.
149 July 7, noon
Sentenced Imposed Upon the February 26
Insurgents.
150 July 8, 10 a. m.
Proposed visit of U. S. S. ALDEN to
Japanese Mandated Islands.
151 July 8, 11 a. m.
Difficulty in Obtaining Commercial
Information.
152
July 10, 5 p. m.
Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law.
153
July 13, 10 a. m.
Proposed Visit of U. S. S. ALDEN to
Japanese Mandated Islands.
154
July 13, 2 p. m.
February 26 Insurgents.
155
July 17, 9 a. m.
Receipt of Cipher Tables.
156
July 17, 10 a. m. Receipt of Cipher Tables.
157
July 17, 1 2. m.
Suppression of May Issue of CURRENT
HISTORY.
158
July 18, 1l a. m. Repeal of Tokyo Martial Law.
159
July 21, noon
Activities of Fishing Vessel CHICHIBU
MARU.
160 July 21, 1 p. m.
Reported American-Chinese Commercial
Agreement.
161
July 23, noon
Smuggling Activities of Tsuneji Arai.
162
July 27, 11 a. m.
Suppression of May Issue of CURRENT
HISTORY.
163 July 28, 1 p. m.
Proposed Visit of U.S.S. ALDEN to
Japanese Mandated Islands.
164 July 31, 11 a. m.
Question 4 for Bucharest Conference of
International Radio Consulting Committee

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.93)
NOV 5 1936
ATE
OF THE
DEPARTMEN
11936
1936 OCT 5 AM 11 25
AMERICAN EMBASBY1
Tokyo, Vepteeser 18, 1556
COMMUNCATONS
2,11
SUBJECT:
THE MONTH OF AUGUST, 1936.
EUROPEAN
NUV 2- 1936
LEGAL ADVISER
NOD
994.00PR
CFSTATI
DEPARTMENTOF STATE
eu
mID
DIVISION OF
894.00 P.R.
COPIES SENT TO
til
/3136
O.N.I.ANDM.I.D
LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS
ODEPARTMENT OF STATE
FE(381)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
Department of State
The Secretary of State,
05
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
N06V8 1936
FLLED
1/ herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions
in Japan for the month of August, 1936.
Respectfully yours,
C
0ikn
E. R. Dickover
GDA:c/m
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
800
Enclosur
1/ Report No. 119
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
mbassy, Moscow
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Dairen
quintuplioate to the Department

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
NO. 119
REFORT ON CONDITIONS IN JATAN DURING
AUGUST, 1936.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX
AND
SUMNARY
I. RELATIONS WITI THE UNITED STATES:
(a)
American Oil Interests in Japan.
1
(b)
Japanese Origin of the Sino-American
Loan Agreement Rumor.
1, 2
(c)
Third America-Japan Student Conference....
(a)
American-Japanese Trade Relations.
2,3
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES;
(a)
China.
3,4,5,6
(b)
Great Britain.
6,7
(c)
Australia.
7
(a)
Brazil.
7,8,9
(e)
Peru.
9
(f)
Spain.
9,10,11
(g)
Sovict Russia.
11, 12
(h)
The Naval Question.
12, 13
(i)
International.
13,14,15
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a)
The Cabinet.
15,16,17
(b)
The Army.
18, 19
(c)
The Navy
.19
(a)
Political Parties.
19
(e)
The Diet.
19, 20
(f)
Reactionaries.
20
(g)
The Emperor.
20
(h)
Colonies.
21
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
21
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
22
VI.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Foreign Trade.
22
(b)
Financial Trends.
22, 23
(c) Shipping..
23
VII. ACTIVITIES OF ALERICAN COMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN CONMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
IS. LABOR:.
23, 24
X. MISCELLANEOUS:..
24

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). American Oil Interests in Japan.
Pressed for a definite statement by the Japanese
6363
8941
Minister for Commerce and Industry, the foreign oil com-
panies stated that the construction of the storage tanks
required by the Petroleum Industry Law would be commenced
by the end of September 1936 and that the oil would be
placed in storage by April l937, "subject to alteration
depending upon special arrangement now under discussion".*
However, the foreign oil interests were unable to obtain
a definite statement from the Japanese Government as to
the maximum amount of storage to be required and the amount
of governmental compensation which may be expected for the
carrying of excess sto-ks in the future.
The negotiations vetween the Standard Vacuum Oil Com-
pany and the Risin Sun Petroleum Company on one hand and
the Mitsui interests on the other appeared to be progress-
ing slowly but steadily toward a common agreement. The
Mitsui interests promised the local representatives of
the foreign oil interests that they would make some con-
crete proposal to the foreign oil intercsts within a short
time.**
(b).
Japanese Origin of the Sino-American Loan
Agreement Rumor.
Wit!: reference to the Domei news dospatch from Shanghai
dated July 20, which reported that an agreement had been
concluded between the United States and China providing
for a long-term credit to the latter country to be used
in buying merican airplanes, automobiles, and munitions
of war,*a maiber  the Embassy's staff was informed by
the
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1977 of August 6, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1989 of August 20, 1936.
丰**
Embassy's telcgram No. 160 of July 21, 1936, and
Embassy's despatch No. 1957 of July 23, 1936.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
the Shanghai manager of Domei that this news despatch had
come to his office from the office of the Military Attaché
of the Japanese Embassy in China. The Embassy's informant
added that the story had been sent out when he was absent
from his duties and that he considered the incident a
serious error which had been detrimental to Domei.*
(c). Third America-Japan Student Conference.
The Third America-Japan Student Conference was held
in Tokyo from August 1 to 8.** An address was delivered
at the opening meeting by the Ambassador.*** American
colleges and universities were represented by 43 delegates,
a large part of them from Reed College, Stanford University,
the University of Washington, the University of Southern
California, and Williamette College. There was a week
of round-table discussions on politics, economics, culture,
and religion. Among the specific topics taken up were the
tendency toward dictatorship in Japan, the racial question
in American-Japanese relations, territorial readjustment,
Japanese morals, and Christianity in Japan. Owing to
Government supervision most of the views expressed were
those advocated by the Japanese Government. Despite this
fact, it uppeared probable that the American delegates
would leave Japan with a better understanding of Japanese
students and with a realization that not all of the latter
think politically as the Japanese Government would want.
EA
(a). American-Japanese Trade Relations.
Accordine to the JAFAN TIMES and the CHUGAI SHOGYO
of August 12, Mr. Renzo Sawada, Jarinese Consul General in
New York who is now in Tokyo, and Mr. Royoji Inouye,
Jananese
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2025. of September 3, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1993 of August 20, 1936.
***
Eabassy's despatch No. 1965 of August 5, 1936.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
Japanese Trade Commissioner who returned to Japan
recently, have jointly submitted to the Foreign Orrice
a plan for the readjustment of trade between Japan and
the United States, the object of which is to increase
exports of miscellaneous goods from this country for the
purpose of reducing the unfavorable balance in Japan's
trade with the United States.
The JAPAN TIMES outlined
the principal points of the scheme as follows: to increase
Japan's exports to the United States of all trade articles
excepting raw silk (which is an essential raw material for
American industry) for thc purpose of reducing Japan's
unfavorable balance of trade; to fix the annual maximum
and minimum amounts of the exports involved and to con-
trol such exports in order that the United States may
agree to the above-mentioned proposition; and, in the
event that the United States asks Japan to reduce its
exports of a certain article, to meet such a request on
the condition that a corresponding increase is to be
allowed in exports of another commodity.
With regard to the Japanese economic mission to the
United States about which there has been a certain amount
of talk during the past several months, thc press reported
that it had now been decided that it would be impracticable
to consider the sending of such a mission this fall, prin-
cipally for the reason that the Japanese Government had
not yet formulated its trade policy.
II.
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a). China.
793.97
Sino-Japanese relations, which had been none too
good durin? the four previous months owing to the smuggling
imbroglio in North China, became even more tense during
the month under review. The smuggling in North China
decreased

=== Page 145 === (confidence 1.00)
decreased considerably but this was due not to the efforts
of the Japanese but to the efficient preventive measures
taken by the Chinese authorities and to the over-stocking
of the market by the smugglers.* Japanese authorities
continued to profess the belief that the fundamental
solution of the smuggling situation lay in the lowering
of the Chinese tariff rates. On August 30 the Hopei-
Chahar Political Council, the pseudo-autonomous regime
partially controlled by the Japanese, established its own
customs offices and imposed consumption taxes on goods
imported from East Hopei of about one-eighth of the
customs duties charged by the Nanking Government.
Chiang Kai-shek's success in Southwest China con-
tinued to be viewed with apprehension by the Japanese on
the ground that the General planned to assert the Central
Government's authority over the Hopei-Chahar Political
Council and the Eastern Hopei Autonomous Government, and
to weaken the pro-Japanese regime of General Han Fu-chieh
in Shantung. Several Japanese newspapers commented on
General Chianc Kai-shek's alleged plans in a threatening
vein and asserted that the Japanese Government was firmly
resolved to block any efforts that might be made to restore
Nanking's influence over North China.
Meanwhile, it was reported by the JIJI and the NICHI
NICHI of August 18 that in the opinion of certain Foreign
Office circles interference by the local Japanese military
authorities must be eliminated if the various problems
affecting Japan were to be settled.
At
Embassy's telegram No. 169 of August 17, 1936.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
At the end of the month it appeared that serious
repercussions might follow an incident which occurred at
Chengtu in Szechwan Province on August 24. According to
Japanese sources, the Chinese authorities attempted to
prevent the reopening of the Japanese Consulate at Chengtu
on the ground that Chengtu was not an open port and also
to impede the journey to Chengtu of the newly appointed
Japanesc Consul, Mr. Eiichi Iwai. As stated in the Japancse
newspaper versions of the matter, Mr. Iwai was held up
at Chungking on August 17 as a result of obstructive
measures taken by the local Chinese authorities, while
his travellin companions proceeded to Chengtu: Koza-
buro Watanabe, Shanghai correspondent of the OSAKA MAINICHI;
Keiji Fukagawa, correspondent of the SHANCHAI MAINICHI;
Takeo Tanaka, an employee of the Shanghai office of the
South Manchuria Railway Company; and Naoshi Seto, a Hankow
merchant. According to Domei despatches from Shanghai, on
August 25 an anti-Japanese mob attacked the hotel in Cheng-
tu in which the Japanese were stayine, killing the two
newspaper correspondents and injuring the other two Japanese.
This action was vigorously condemned by the Japanese
Foreign Office, Army, Navy, and press and the blame for
it was assigned to the Nanking Government. It was reported
by the press that the Japanese Foreign Office was not
satisfied with the statement made on August 26 by a spokes-
man of the Chinese Foreign Office to the effect that the
anti-Japanese act had been plotted by Communists.
While the expected Japanese protest was not filed
with the Chinese Government before the end of the month,
the press reported that the Japanese Army and Navy were
insistent

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
insistent in their demands that the Chengtu incident be
utilized as a means of bringing pressure to bear on China
for the elimination of all anti-Japanese movements in that
country.*
(b).
Great Britain.
WE
There were indications during the month that the
Japanese desired improved relations with Great Britain.
In the early part of the month Japanese newspapers spoke
of a plan for Anglo-Japanese cooperation alleged to be
entertained by Sir Samuel Hoare. Sir Samuel Hoare's plan
was reported by the ASAHI of August 8 to be the following:
Japan will affirm its regard for China's territorial in-
tegrity and the Open Door in China and will undertake not
to encroach on British rights and interests in that country,
in return for which Great Britain will recognize "Manchu-
kuo" and admit that Japan has special rights and interests
in North China; Japan will guarantee to purchase certain
quantities of British goods, in return for which Great
Britain will lower its customs tariffs on Japanese goods;
and Japan will agree informally to the terms of the London
Naval Treaty of 1936 while not necessarily adhering formally
to that pact. On August 18 Mr. Amau told foreign newspaper
correspondents that the Japanese Foreign Office had re-
ceived no report from the Japanese Ambassador in London
regarding the plan for Anglo-Japanese cooperation credited
to Sir Samuel Hoare and denied that any instructions had
been sent to the Ambassador regarding the matter.
Although the initiators of this movement toward
some sort of Anglo-Japanese rapprochement were the Japanese
themselves
*
Embassy's telegram No. 176 of September 2, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1970 of August 6, 1936.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
themselves, the vernacular press stated that the movement
had originated in England and spoke of the matter as a
"British offer to Japan". In any case, it would appear
that nothing definite was accomplished in the way of
establishing closer relations between the two countries,
whatever may be the prospects for such an arrangement in
the future.*
It appeared that the Japanese military were opposed
to such a political arrangement with Great Britain on the
ground that it would entail too much limitation upon Japan's
freedom of action.**
(c). Australia.
In accordance with an agreement reached in July between
the Japanese and Australian Governments,*** negotiations
were resumed on August 28 between representatives of the
WE
two Governments with a view to reaching a settlement of
the Japanese- Australian trade dispute. The outstanding
questions to be settled appeared to be the following: to
what extent the Australian Government will admit the im-
portation of Japanese cotton and rayon textiles; to what
extent the Australian Government will lower its tariff
rates; and to what extent Japan will admit imports of
Australian raw wool.****
(d). Brazil.
LA
Much publicity was civen the forthcoming visit of
the Brazilian Economic Mission under the chairmanship of
Dr. Joaquim Pedro Salgado Filho, due to arrive at Yokohama
on September 19. It was reported that the purposes of
the
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1970 of August 6, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1996 of August 20, 1936.
***
Monthly Report for July, Section II (j).
****
Embassy's despatches No. 19l8 and No. 1919 of July 26,
1936.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
the mission were to return the official visit of the
Japanese Economic Mission under Mr. Hirao, the present
Education Minister, to Brazil in l935, to develop trade
between the two countries, and to bring about a settle-
ment of various outstanding questions, including Japanese
immigration into Brazil and Japanese land leases in that
country. According to the press, plans were being made
for an elaborate welcome for the thirty odd members of
the Brazilian mission, a sum of nearly ¥200,000 having
been set aside for this purpose. The JAPAN TIES of
August 18 stated that on the previous day the Emperor
had made inquiries of Mr. Hirao concerning the Brazilian
Economic Mission and had expressed the desire that careful
arrangements be made to welcome its members so as to give
them full satisfaction.
While the Japanese newspapers were enthusiastic over
the visit in September of the Brazilian Economic Mission,
they assailed the reported decision reached by the Brazilian
Senate on August 24 to nullify a land grant to a Jananese
colonization company in the State of Amazonas. It was
reported by the CHUGAI SHOGYO of August 26 that Japanese
Foreign Office officials had asserted that both the
Japanese Government and people were indignant over the
Brazilian action; that the decision against the concessions
was tantamount to ignoring the contribution which Japanese
settlers had made toward the economic development of the
State of Amazonas; and that the Japanese Government would
assist the Amazonas land development company in its
negotiations with the local Brazilian authorities for a
settlement of the question of the legality of the conces-
sions. It was stated at the end of the month that the
Japanese

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
Japanese Government had decided to instruct its Ambassador
to Brazil to start negotiations with the Brazilian Govern-
ment for the proteotion of the "vested rights" of the
Japanese settlers in Brazil.
(e). Peru.
LA
According to the TOKYO NICIHI NICHI of August 12, the
Japanese Foreign Office was resolved to continue negotia-
tions with the Peruvian Government looking toward a modifi-
cation of the latter's decree of June 26, 1936, which pro-
vides that the number of foreign immigrants of any one
country eligible to live in Peru shall be limited to
16,O00. This newspaper stated that although the decree
theoretically restricted immigrants of all countries, it
was applicable in fact only to the Japanese, of whom
21,000 were living in Peru as against 7,000 Chinese and
6,00o Italians.*
(f). Spain.
WE
On the whole, Japanese public and official opinion
concerning the Spanish civil war has been guardedly neutral
in tone.** As in previous cases, such as the actions of
the League of Nations in general and the international
complications of the Italo-Ethiopian war, the Japanese
press has adopted a superior attitude toward the diffi-
culties in Spain, limiting its comments to the deplorable
aspect of the whole situation. Although the Italian action
in Ethiopia and the present insurrectionary movement against
the leftist government of Spain ought logically to meet
with the sympathy of the Japanese Government and people,
in
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2036 of September 16, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2035 of September 16, 1936.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
-10
in neither case have the bounds of neutrality been over-
stepped in the expression of opinion.
According to the ASAHI of August 21, the Japanese
Government promptly quashed a move by Japanese radicals
to send monetary aid to the Spanish leftists, citing as
their reason for this step the assertion that assistance
in any form to either the Government forces or to the
rebels in Spain was likely to excite international feeling.
Other plans for an expression of sympathy to the Spanish
Government were uncovered by the police and nipped in
the bud.
An incident which occasioned much comment in diplo-
matic circles and in the Japanese press was the resigna-
tion on August 26 of Mr. Santiago Méndez de Vigo, Spanish
Minister to Japan. On August 26, the Spanish Minister,
the Counselor of the Spanish Legation (Mr. Juan Gomez
Molina) and the Spanish Consul in Kobe (Mr. Francisco
Castillo) issued the following communiqué to the press,
a copy of which was handed to the Ambassador as Dean of
the Diplomatic Corps by the Spanish Minister on the same
day:
"The Spanish Minister, the Counsellor of the
Spanish Legation in Tokio and the Spanish Consul
in Kobe, hereby declare that, although without
more news than those published by the press, based
on innermost conviction, they have from July of
this year broken all relations with the Government
of Madrid; they are absolutely identified with the
movement which is led by the Generals Franco,
Cabanellas and Mola, men of a dignified and
patriotic history who all through their life have
not

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
not maintained other ideal than the welfare and
glory of Spain. It is therefore undeniable that
their idealism which we all good Spanish share
could not possibly stay indifferent against the
regrettable policy developed by the Government
of Madrid which drove Spain into real chaos, owing
to the present struggle between the anarchy backed
by the communism on one hand and civilization,
order and respect towards the most sacred rights
of humanity on the other."
Domei reported on August 29 that despite the resigna-
tion of Mr. Santiago Méndez de Vigo as Spain's Minister
to Japan and his announcement that he had associated
himself with the revolutionary cause, the Japanese Foreign
Office had decided to continue to regard him as the
Spanish Minister for thc reason that Mr. de Vigo's
credentials from the Spanish Government did not lose
their validity through the Minister's private statement.
(g).
Soviet Russia.
There appeared to be a lessening of tension in
Soviet-Japanese relations, owing primarily to the facts
that fewer aggravating incidents occurred and that Japan
was more engrossed with its position in China.*
The
incidents which took place were only minor in character,
the sole affair of any importance being the execution
at Hailar on August 21 of nine members of the "Soviet
Storm Troops". This incident seems to have caused less
than usual anxiety to the Soviet Government.
A statement which received a certain amount of
comment
* Embassy's despatch No. 2002 of August 21, 1936.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
-12
comment in the Japanese press was that attributed to
Mr. Ota, retiring Japanese Ambassador to the Soviet
Union, to the effect that he strongly advocated the
conclusion of a non-aggression pact with Soviet Russia,
which had been spurned on several occasions by the
Japanese Government. On the other hand Mr. Mamoru Shige-
mitsu, whose appointment as Ambassador to the USSR was
approved by the Cabinet on August 25, was reported to
have stated in an interview with a correspondent of the
ASAHI on August 27 that no alteration would take place
in Japan's diplomatic policy toward Soviet Russia and
that the time was still premature for the conclusion
of a non-aggression treaty between the two countries.
The Army had been opposed to Mr. Shigemitsu for
reasons already reported to the Department.* It was
allegedly this fact which was instrumental in bringing
about Mr. Shigemitsu's resignation from the post of
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, the
insistence of the Foreign Office on Mr. Snigemitsu's
qualifications for the post of Ambassador to the USSR
was reported to have overcome the Army's opposition,
probably because the Army felt that he was sufficiently
in sympathy with the Army's policy toward the USSR.
(h). The Naval Question.
No notification was sent by the Japanese Government
to the British Government concerning Japan's attitude
toward Great Britain's invocation of the escalator
clause of the London Naval Treaty of 1930 for the
retention of 40,000 tons of destroyer tonnage that
would
* Embassy's despatch No. 2006 of Auguet 27, 1936.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
- 13 -
would otherwise have to be scrapped by the end of the
present year, although reports were to the effect that
Japan was considering the retention of excess submarine
strength in view of the fact that this country had
relatively little excess in destroyer tonnage. Neither
was it clear just what attitude the Japanese Government
would adopt concerning the limitation of guns on capital
ships, i. e. to fourteen-inch or to sixteen-inch.* It
appeared unlikely that Japan had any intention of agree-
ing to any naval limitation treaty in the near future.
(1). International.
Japan's foreign policy came in for a great deal of
discussion during the month of August.** This discussion
was initiated by the Seiyukai, which on July 31 submitted
a statement to Premier Hirota urging the Government to
establish a definite foreign policy for the reason that
there was "hardly an item in the Government policy that
is not connected with foreign relations". On August 4
the Minseito presented a similar statement to the Premier
asserting that the discussion of national defense and
financial plans without deciding upon a definite foreign
policy would only increase the unrest of the people.
On August l0 the Kenyukai (of the House of Peers) also
criticized the Government for not establishing a definite
foreign policy. According to the YOMIURI of August 10,
the Navy Minister, Admiral Nagano, at a conference held
between the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, War, and Navy,
on August 7, announced that he advocated a strong
permanent
本
Embassy's telegram No. 172 of August 27, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1990 of August 20, 1936.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
permanent foreign policy in order to cope with the
growing tendency to exclude Japanese goods from world
markets. It was reported that the Army, however, was
in disagreement with the political parties and with the
Navy in this matter on the following grounds: that a
national foreign policy has already been established
and therefore no question of its priority over other
national policies exists; that Japan's international
status cannot be improved simply through diplomacy; and
that the nation's diplomatic strength must be increased
by arms expansion. Hence, the Army reportedly held the
belief that the replenishment of national defense should
take precedence over all other national policies.
It was stated by the NICHI NICHI of August 12 that
Mr. Arita, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, had explained
at Cabinet meetings on August 7 and 1l that the Foreign
Office could see no need of taking any steps in response
to the agitation for the establishment of a definite
foreign policy. According to the NICHI NICHI, Mr.
Arita outlined Ja an's present foreign policy as follows:
Japan must increase its Manchurian military forces to
the point where they are equal to those of Soviet Russia
in Siberia and only after this has been effected can the
Foreign Office negotiate with the USSR for the mutual
withdrawal of troops through the conclusion of a non-
aggression pact or the establishment of a demilitarized
zone; Japan must be. carcful to prevent an anti-Japanese
combination between China and Soviet Russia and must
also endeavor to create a buffer zone in North China
between China and "Manchukuo"; and efforts must be
made

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15 -
made to improve Japan's relations with Great Britain
by explaining to that country Japan's objectives on
the continent of Asia and by avoiding friction with
Great Britain over Japan's "Southward Advance" policy.
Mr. Horinouchi, the Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs, stated to a member of the Embassy's staff
that the political parties and other elements in the
Government were afraid to express open opposition to
the excessive budgetary demands of the Army and had
therefore taken the tack of agitating for the establish-
ment of a definite and firm foreign policy as a pre-
requisite to the formation of other policies in order
to attack the Army's military demands indirectly.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet.
According to Domei of August 21, the following
twelve new national policies finally decided upon by the
Premier and Finance Minister Baba received the approval
of the War and Navy Ministers on August 2l: tax reform;
electric power control; fuel and resources policy; pro-
motion of foreign trade; encouragement of civil aviation;
creation of industrial reserve laboratories; readjustment
of farm debts; creation of a system of mutual insurance
against natural disasters in rural communities; agrarian
land reform; promotion of public health; revision of the
compulsory education system; and inauguration of a
permanent system of grants to local governments from
the central treasury. This news agency also stated that
the Premier and the Finance Minister had acceded to the
demand of the War Minister for approval of the Overaeas
Ministry's plan for encouraging large scale emigration
to

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16 -
to "Manchukuo" and to the Navy Minister's demand for
approval of the shipping control program of the Com-
munications Ministry. It will be observed that most
of these policies are vague and it remains to be seen
whether the method of carrying them out will meet with
the approval of the Army, the political parties, and the
people at large.
Ever since the February 26 Incident the Army has
been clamoring for radical reform in the administrative
organization of the Government. At a Cabinet meeting
held on August 28 Premier Hirota was reported by the
ASAHI of that date to have asked each of the Cabinet
Ministers for suggestions in the matter of the administra-
tive reform of the individual ministries. This newspaper
interpreted the Premier's action as an indication that
he had no intention of bringing about the sort of reform
desired by the Army, such as abolition of some ministries,
creation of new ministries and the appointment of ministers
without portfolio for the formulation of national policies.
The fact that Premier Hirota did not report to
Prince Saionji, the Genro, on the Cabinet's adoption of
a schedule of national policies was seen by the ASAhI of
August 27 as an indication that the Genro had ceased to
be an important influence in Japanese government since
the February 26 Incident. The Premier's omission in this
case can probably be ascribed to the opposition of the
February 26 insurgents and of their moral sympathizers
among the people to the influence of the Genro and other
Elder Statesmen surrounding the Throne.
One of the principal internal political issues during
the month was the question of strengthening state control
over

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
- 17 -
over the electricity supply industry, which was one of
the Government's polioies announced during the month.*
Mr. Tanomogi, the Communications Minister, sponsored a
plan for "private ownership and state operation" of the
electricity supply industry and his plan was supported
by the Army and other elements who favor a kind of state
socialism. It met with the opposition of the electric
power interests and financial and business interests
on the ground that it would not, as claimed, result
in a reduction of rate charges to the general public
unless the Government made up financial losses from some
other sources, which in the long run would be a burden
on the people. Subsequently the Minister of Commerce
and Industry advocated "state ownership and state opera-
tion" in lieu of the private ownership and state opera-
tion sponsored by the Communications Minister. The pro-
posal of the Minister for Commerce and Industry gained
many adherents. However, the Finance Minister stated
in a press interview that he was definitely opposed to
this proposal on the ground that it would necessitate
the issuance of a large amount of national bonds for the
purchasc of private electricity plants. At the end of
the month the controversy showed no signs of settlement
although it appeared that the Premier would make efforts
to work out an acceptable compromise among the opposing
groups. The controversy has political, economic, and
social significance for the reason that it brings up
the question of state socialism, an ideal toward which
there has been a ter.dency since the coming into power of
the Army in 1931.*
(b).
Embassy's despatch No. 2028 of September 4, 1936.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
- 18 -
(b). The Army.
On Aueust ll the War Minister was reported by Domei
to have issued a warning to the Cabinet that decisions
on national policies must be expedited. It was said
that General Terauchi stated further that there seemed
to be a lack of appreciation of the emergency nature of
the times. After the approval of the Government's poli-
cies mentioned in the preceding section of this report
the press reported that the "national renovation"
desires of the Army were unanpeased, particularly be-
cause of the abstractness of the policies adopted and
also because of the doubtful prospects of radictl ad-
ministrative reform in the Government. The Army's
budgetary demands were reported to exceed ¥3,000,000,000
in additional expenditures during the next twelve years
and there appeared to be little likelihood that the
Premier would be ablc to withstand these demands.
The routine Army shifts which took place on August 1
included about 3,O00 changes and promotions. These
shifts had several significant aspects: the shifts
were acclaimed by the press as contributing to a cor-
rection of lack of discipline in the Army which culminated
in the incident of Fcbruary 26; the list of changes and
promotions was drafted by the War Minister alone and
approved by the Emperor and thus it was the first time
since l913 that the annual list had not been submitted
to the joint approval of the War Minister, the Vice
Minister for War, and the Inspcctor General of Military
Education; the officer appointed as Inspector General
of Education was Licutenant-Gcncral Sugiyama, a man
with

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
- 19 -
with normal ideas and apparently with no connections
with any political groups or factions within or without
the Army; and the list further demonstrates the close
relation between the War Office and the North China
Garrison which has been increasing ever since the
incident of February 26.*
(c). The Navy.
The press reported that the budgetary demands of
the Navy Ministry for the fiscal year 1937-1938 sub-
mitted to the Finance Minister on August 17 amounted to
¥770,000,000 which represents an increase of ¥219,000,000
over the national budget for the current fiscal year,
and that the inauguration of a ¥1,000,000,000 five-year
naval replenishment program was provided for in the Navy's
budget estimates. A part of the increased estimates may
be accounted for by a plan for the training of aviators
and the improvement of airplanes, "in view of the changing
circumstances and trends in other countries".
(d). Political Parties.
While the Minseito were reported to be highly satis-
fied with the Government's policies as decided upon on
August 2l, the Seiyukai criticized those policies, assert-
ing that they were vaguc and omitted to mention a definite
foreign policy.
(e). The Diet.
Premier Hirota and Mr. Baba, the Finance Minister,
were reported to be in favor of the suggestion that the
Diet session should be opened in September instead of
in December in order to avoid the Dict recess at the
end
* Embassy's despatch No. 1976 of August 6, 1936.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
end of the year. However, the Army declared its opposi-
tion to the plan on the ground that during the holding
of the annual Army maneuvers in the fall the War Minister
and other Cabinet Ministers would be absent from the
capital. It appeared likely that the suggestion would
be dropped because of the Army's attitude.
(f). Reactionaries.
The MIYAkO of August 25 reported that the rightist
movement, which seemed superficially to have been on the
wane since the February 26 insurrection, was regaining
strength and that a group of Army and Navy reservists,
including such outstanding figures as Lieutenant-General
Yoshimi Tatekawa, Vice Admiral Shosaburo Kobayashi, and
Colonel Kingoro Hashimoto were participating in the move-
ment. According to this nuwspaper, the Home Minister
has decided to hold a conference of chiefs of special
high departments of the prefectural police in Tokyo for
three days commencing September 7 in order to cope with
the resurgence of the rightist movement.
(g). The Emperor.
It was reported that during the last week of the
month four prominent women, including a former chief
lady-in-waiting to the Empress, had been arrested on
charges of occult practices which involved disrespect
to the Imperial Household. The women arrested were al-
leged to have called themselves "spiritual descendents
of the gods" and to have disseminated stories which they
claimed were divulged to them by divine sources.
(h)

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
-21 -
(h). Colonies.
As predicted by the press in July*, General Jiro
Minami, former Commander of the Kwantung Army and
Ambassador to "Manchukuo", was appointed Governor General
of Korea to succeed General Ugaki and Admiral Seizo Koba-
yashi, former member of the Supreme War Council, was
appointed Governor General of Formosa to succeed the
civilian, Mr. Kenzo Nakagawa.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
A bill being drafted by the Minister of Agriculture
and Forestry providing for the conversion of tenant farmers
into land owning agriculturists at a cost of ¥60,000,000
over a 25-year period was reported to be meeting with
widespread opposition in farming circles on the ground
that it would entail a drastic increase in the price of
farm land and also with opposition among landowners reluct-
ant to sell their land.
According to the ASAHI of August 29, the Home Office
has started drafting a bill to be presented at the next
regular session of the Diet which provides that shops
in general shall be obliged to close at l0 o'clock in
summer and at 9 o'clock in winter and to give their em-
ployees at least one holiday a month; that the working
hours of department stores shall be limited to ten hours
a day, with four holidays a month for each employee; and
that violators of these provisions shall be required to
pay fines not exceeding ¥500.
V.
* Monthly report for July Section, III (e).

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
- 22 -
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
In a press interview on August 2, the Finance Minister
made the following statements: that in the light of the
prevailing international situation an increase in military
expenditures was unavoidable; that increased Government
expenditures would be met with the issuance of red ink
bonds not in excess of 1,000,000,000 annually and with an
increase in taxes; and that the issuance of red ink bonds
up to about 1,000,000,000 per year would not cause social
unrest.
A tax reform plan tas reportedly been agreed upon by
the Finance and Home Ministers providing for the abolition
or transfer to the national treasury of approximately half
the amount of taxes now being collected by local units
of the Government.
JI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a). Foreign Trade.
Exports from Japan for July amounted to ¥229,515,000,
while imports into this country amounted to ¥191,148,000,
which represented a favorable trade balance of ¥38,367,000,
as compared with a favorable balance for July of y19,649,000.
The increase in exports during the month was accounted for
by increases in exports of cotton textiles, canned food-
stuffs, and miscellaneous goods.*
(b). Financial Trends.
Money rates were low. The conversion of 5% national
bonds to 3-1/2% national bonds to the amount of ¥654,616, 742
was satisfactorily effected and the bonds were readily
absorbed.
Data and information furnished by the Commercial Attaché's
office.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
-23 -
absorbed. The Fokyo Wholesale Price Index advanced from
197.4 for July to 200,7! for August. The average yen
rate for the month was 0.29-1/4, i. e., the same as for
the month of July.
(c). Shipping.
A boom was reported in thc shipbuilding industry.
According to the Kobe Shipping Exchange, there were 118
ships under construction in Japan on August 15, totalling
733,400 tons dead weight. Of these ships, six were being
built for foreign countries, freighters numbered 87, passen-
ger boats and combined passenger and freight boats numbered
15, tankers numbered 7, and whalers 3. According to the
JAPAN TIMES of August 10, the Minister for Communications
has drawn up a plan for the construction within the next
four years of 400,000 tons of first class merchant ships,
some with a speed of 25 to 26 knots. It was said that a
Government subsidy of ¥100,000,000 would be granted for
this purpose.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR.
According to the NICHI NICHI of August 25, a measure
similar to the Nazi law for state control of labor in
Germany was in the process of preparation in the Home Office.
This newspaper states that the bill, which may be submitted
at the next session of the Diet, provides for a final
"settlement" of Japan's labor problems by outlawing unions,
abolishing the right to strike, and establishing Government
"protection" of labor; that the Home Office aims to embody
in

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
in the bill the spirit of Japan's family system, both
economically and ethically; that the Home Office believes
that capitalists must justify their profits by contri-
buting to the general good of society and that employees
owe something more than their work in return for their
wages, namely, duty to the State; and that, in accordance
with the provisions of the bill, the State will act as an
impartial third party to settle questions arising between
capital and labor.
It was stated by the JAPAN TIMES of August 17 and by
the JAPAN ADVERTISER of August 18 that on August 16 the
SHAKAI TAISHUTO, or Social Mass Party, had expressed
opposition to increases in defense expenditures; had re-
iterated its lack of confidence in the Hirota Cabinet;
had pledged itself to work for the overthrow of the present
Cabinet; and had charged that all the working masses could
expect from the Government was increased burdens.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
It was reported that on August 12 the Home Minister,
the Vice Minister for Home Affairs, the Director of the
Police Affairs Bureau of the Home Office, and the Director
of the Shrines Bureau of that Department had held a meeting
to discuss possible evils in connection with the Olympic
Games in Tokyo in 1940. These officials decided, according
to reports, to start a campaign for a morally pure Tokyo
during the Olympic Games and during the solemn observance
of the 2,600th anniversary of the founding of the Empire,
to prohibit the seeking of autographs of athletes parti-
cipating in the Games (particularly by females), and to
close all dance halls during the 1940 event.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 1.00)
DESPATCHES SENT TC THE DEPARTIENT
DURING AUGUST, 1936
No.
Date
Subject
1963
Aug. 3
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
1964 Aug. 5
Claim for Compensation for Damages Sustained
by E. S. Barstow.
1965 Aug. 5
Address Made by the Ambassador.
1966
Aug. 5
Annual Air Defense Maneuvers.
1967
Aug. 5
Smuggling of LMorphine Ex S. S. HEIAN MARU at
Seattle on April 2, 1936.
1968 Aug. 5
1935 Payment from Japan for International
Service of Ice Observation and Ice Patrol
in the North Atlantic Ocean.
1969 Aug. 6
Significance of the Decision to Hold the 1940
Olympic Games in Tokyo.
1970 Aug. 6
Anglo-Japanese Relations.
1971
Aug. 6
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
1972
Aug. 6
Naval Disarmament.
1973
Aug. 7
Diplomatic Visa Report.
1974
Aug. 6
Shipping Difficulties in Japan.
1975 Aug. 6
Third World Power Conference and the Second
Congress of the International Commission on
Large Dams to be held at Vashington,
September 7 to 15, 1936.
1976 Aug. 6
Japanese Army Shifts and Promotions, August 1.
1977
Aug. 6
American Oil Interests in Japan.
1978
Aug. 13
Third Quarterly Examination of Mr. Richardson.
1979
Aug. 13
Third uarterly Examination of Mr. Caldwell.
1980
Aug. 13
Third Quarterly Examination of Mr. Schmidt.
1981
Aug. 13
Third Quarterly Examination of Mr. Johansen.
1982
Aug. 17 Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
1983
Aug. 17 Cipher Tables.
1984
Aug. 17
Address Made by the Ambassador.
1985
Aug. 17 Third Quarterly Examination of Mr. Yuni.
1986

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
No. Date
Subject
1986 Aug. 17
Third Quarterly Examination of Mr. Johnson.
1987
Aug. 18
Request for Information on Economic Geography
of Hawaii and Puerto Rico.
1988 Aug. 20 Narcotics.
1989
Aug. 20 American Oil Interests in Japan.
1990
Aug. 20 Japanese Foreign Policy.
1991
Aug. 20 Political Report for July.
1992
Aug. 20 Home Leave of Mr. Morris N. Hughes.
1993
Au€. 20
Third merica-Japan Student Conference.
1994
Aug. 20
Fiscal Relations between the Central Govern-
ment and the Capital City.
1995 Aug. 20 Shipping Difficulties in Japan.
1996
Aug. 20
Inglo-Japanese Relations.
1997
Lug. 21
Home Leave of the imbassador.
1998
Aug. 21
Legislation Enacted at the May 1-May 27 Diet
Session.
1999 ∴ug. 21
Clipping in Regard to Mr. J. W. Ballantine.
2000 .ug. 22
The Importance of Naval Preparedness in
Conncction with Future Developments in the
Far East.
2001 iug. 21
Japanese Emigration to Manchuria.
2002
∴ug. 21
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2003
iug. 25
Cost of Living llowance of Mr. Hughes.
2004
∴ug. 26
Executed Letters Rogatory, Bradley and Baker
versus S. S. NIEL MERSK, etc.
2005 ug. 26
Japanese Relations with the United States and
Other Countries.
2006 ug. 27
Appointment of r. Shigemitsu as mbassador
to U. S. S. R.
2007 1ug. 27
Inglo-imerican-Japanese Naval Relations.
2008
lug. 28
Laying of Keel of U. S. S. SNIPPER.
2009
∴ug. 28 Accounts of Mr. Coville.
2010
iug. 28 Laying of Keel of U. S. S. SKIPJiCK.
2011 Lug. 28 Laying of Keel of U. S. S. DiVIS.
2012

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3-
No.Date
Subject
2012
lug. 31
Diplometic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
2013
1ug. 31
Naval Disarmament Discussion in Japanese Diet.
2014
1.ug. 31
Registration in "Manchukuo" of Carnation
Company Tredemarks.
2015 ug. 31
∴ccounts - Payments for Gas by Occupants of
Government-Owned Quarters.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING AUGUST, 1936
No. Date
Subject
165 Aug. 1, 11 a. m.
Sentences of Military Officers
involved in the February 26 Incident.
166 Aug. 7, 4 p. m.
Arrival of Mr. Ballantine.
167 Aug. 14, 10 a. m. Ambassador's Personal Mail.
168 Aug. 17, 5 p. m.
Memorandum Concerning American and
British Retention of Over-age Destroyers
169 Aug. 17, 6 p. m.
Smuggling in North China.
170 Aug. 25, 9 a. m.
Completed Letters Rogatory re Baker &
Bradley.
171
Aug. 26, 4 2. m.
Requisition for Funds.
172
Aug. 27, 11 a. m.
Japanese Naval Building Plans.
173
Aug. 28, 9 a. m.
Departure of the Ambassador
174
Aug. 29, 1 p. m.
Japanese Naval Building Plans.
0
PA
5

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.92)
NOV 21-1030
LTurE
NOV 1 9 193
OF THE
LATIN AMERICAN AFFATR
ERARTMENT OPSTATE
UNITED STATES OF AM
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.00PR
NO. 2000
NOV 18 1936L
Tolyo, October 10, 08
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CEGAL ADVISER
LUROPEAN
50
1936
DEC 8-1
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
6
DIVISINNOF
00
No
P.R
For
In C S.A
70
Grade
oni
For
MiD
Cin FE(381)
/106
livision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
cn
NOV 3-1936
The Honorable
Statu
The Secretary of State
Washington.
Departmont of Stato
Sir:
With reference to the Department's Instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
DEC 15.1936
FILED
と
1/
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions
in Japan for the month of September, 1936.
Respectfully yours,
B. R. Diekover
GDA:0/m
Chargé d'Arfaires ad interim
800
Enclosure:
1/ Report No. 180
Copy to Mmbassy, Poiping
Consulate Ceneral,
Shanghei

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.97)
NO. 120
REFORT ON COYDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
SEPTEMBER, 1936

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WIT: THH UNITID STATES:
(a)
Janan's Retention of Excess Subnarine
Tonnace.
1
(b)
Reyorted Reaction of the Japanese Foreign
Office to the Lansing Henoirs.
1,2
(c)
Effect of Automobile Hanufacturing Industry
Law on American Interests.
2
(a)
Foundin of the Nichibei Young People's
Federation.
2,3
II. RELATIONS WIT OTER COUNTRIS:
(a)
China.
3,4,5
(b)
Great Britain
6,7
(c)
Gerany...
7
(a)
"Manclhukuo"
7, 3
(e)
Brazil.
8, 3
(f)
Austraria..
9, 10
(F)
International
10
ITI. TNPERNAL POLITICAL AFPAIRS:
(a) The Cabinet.
10,11,12
(0)
The Army end Nevy.
12, 13
(い)
The umperor...
13
(u)
The Japanese Foreign Service.
13, 14
(0)
Reactionaries.
14
IV. COURSE CF LSGISLATION:.
14
v.
GOVERNNLENT FINANCE:
14, 15
VI. GENERAL ECO:OMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
Forein Trade.
15
(b)
Financial Trends.
16
(c)
Aviation.
16
VII. ACTIVITINS OF ALRICAN CONPLRC IAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
VIII.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
(a) Labor..
16, 17
(b) Emigration........
17
X. MISCELLANEOUS:.
17,18
ADDENDUM: TO SECTION II. (h) Soviet RuSSia........
18,19

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
I: RELATIONS WITH TIE UNITED STATES.
(a). Japan's Retention of Excess Submarine Tonnage.
On September 3 the Japanese Ambassador in Washington
delivered a memorandum to the Department of State setting
forth the decision of the Japanese Government to retain an
excess of 11,059 tons of destroyers and 15,593 tons of sub-
marines in view of the British action in invoking Article 21
of the London Naval Treaty of 193o for the retention of
40,000 tons of over-age destroyers.* On September 5 the
American Government replied to the effect that there was
no legal ground on which the Japanese could retain 15,598
tons of submarines without actually invoking the escalator
clause and that the American Government could not follow the
reasoning that because the Japanese did not have sufficient
tonnage in the destroyer category they should compensate by
retaining excess submerine tonnage.
It was reportou by the press that on September 1o the
Japanese Ministries of Forein Affairs and the Navy had
agreed to maintain that the Japanese action was not a
violation of the 193o London Naval Treaty and that on the
contrary the retention of both submarines and destroyers
was more in keeping with the spirit of the Treaty and with
the spirit of disarmament thun the building up of Japan's
destroyer strength to 26,657 tons. On September 14 the
spokesman of the Foreign Office, in an interview with foreign
nowspaper correspondents, set forth arguments in support of
Japan's action which were equally as specious as the views
of the Foreign and Navy offices outlined above.
RP
(b).
Reported Reaction of the Japanese Foreign Office
to the Lansing Memoirs.
It was stated by the ASAiI of September 24 that there
would
* Department's telegram No. 114 of September 10, 1936.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2-
would be published in the October issue of the Gaiko Jiho
(Diplomatic Review) an 80-pagc erticle by Mr. Kiroku Hayashi,
former President of Keio University, which had been prepared
at the instance of the Japanese Forcien Office as an answer
to the alleged "abuse" of Javan contained in the memoirs of
Mr. Robert Lansing, war-time Secretary of State of the
United States. According to this newspaper, the Foreign
Office considers r. Lansing's book, published posthumously,
as insulting because of its alleged accusation that Japan
entered the World War with aggressive designs. Furthermore,
it is said that the Japanese authorities are indignant be-
I beleve
the seleader
United States and Japan concerning the latter country's
"paciet
dotamel
bea.le
consent.
(c).
Effect of Automobile Manufacturin Industry Law
on Aierican Interests.
According to the JAPAN TIMES of September 24, the
Japanese Ministry of Commerce and Industry, under the author-
ity of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law,* has
decided to limit the number of motor cars to be manufactured
per annum by the Nippon Ford Company, Limited, to 12,360,
and by the Nippon General Motors Company, Limited, to
9,470, these limitations being based on the annual average
number of automobiles manufactured by the two companies for
the three years prior to August 9, 1936.
(a). Founding of the Nichibei Younc Peonle's Federation.
On September 28 the first meetin was held of the
newly organized Nichibei Young People's Federation, the
purposes of which are said to be the promotion of the
interests
Embassy's despatch No. 1891 of June 11, 1936, and No. 1944
of July 1=, 1936.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
interests and welfare of merican-born Japanese and of
friendly relations between Jepan and the Americas.
II. RELATIONS WITH  OTILR COUNTRIES.
(ε). China.
The Sinc-Japanese situetion ecane worse and worse
during the month. Jananese indi nation already having been
aroused by the Chengtu inciaent of August 24,* there oc-
curred at Pakhoi another sericus incident with the murder
on September 3 by a Chinese mob of a Japanese druggist
numed Nakano.** According to press telecrans, the Japanese
Goverment sent consular officers in the gunboat SAGA from
Canton to Paihoi to investi ete the case but the 19th Route
Airy refused to perrit the Japanose to land. This refusal
created reat resentment in Japan and the Japanese Navy
derandeo that the lan ing Covernnent take steps to evacuate
the loth Route Arny frou Pa'ioi and threatened to take
matters into its owm hands in such evacuation were not
com letcd by a definite date to be arran ed with Nanking.***
Hovever, the leth Route Army evacuated Pakhoi on September 21,
the Jananese invostigators landed on tle following day, and
tension over the ffair was relieved.
Meanwhilc, at Hankow on Soptember 18 a Japanese con-
suler policemen, while putrollin, the border of the Japanese
concession, was killed by Chinese. As a consequence Japan-
cso blucjackots were landed. Also, on Septenber 23 Japanese
in Shanghai were fired at by Chinese from an omnibus, one
of the Japanese bein: killed and two of them wounded. In
addition there were minor incidents at Swatow end Fengtai.
At
*
Embassy's Monthly Renort for Aurust, Section II (a).
**
Embassy's despatch No. 204l of September 17, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 2061 of Cctober 1, 1936.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
At the end of the month the Japanese Government was
reported by the press to have made certain demands on the
Nanking Government in the nature of an ultimatum. According
to the YOMIURI of September 29, Japan demanded that General
Chiang Kai-shek return to Mankin~ to conauct negotiations
personally with Ambassador Kawagoe and also that the Nanking
Government formally recognize the autonomy of the five
northern provinces; that the present high customs tariff be
revised; that China agree to conclude an agreement relating
to communications between China and Japan; and that China
engage Japanese advisers.
On September 21, the Japanese Navy Ministry issued a
statenent to the effect that since the situation in China
had developed to a point where the Japanese Navy could no
longer rely vhclly on the Chinese authorities to protect
Japanese nationals in China, the Navy Department had decided
to organizo a Japanese special and additional landing force
tc bo despatched to China. ccording to information obtained
by the rmbassy, this landin, force, 5o0 strong, was disem-
barked from a naval transport at Shanghai on September 25.
On September 24, according to Domei, the Ministry of the
Navy reached a decision concerning future developments in
China for which the Emperor's sanction was obtained. The
Government has not announced the exact nature of this decision
and annarently no action has been taken as a result of it.
Mr. Arita, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, read to
foreign press correspondents on September 28, a prepared
statement, the gist of which follows: Japan's recent
offorts to adjust Sino-Japanese relations had achieved no
tangible rosults; the various incidents which had lately
occurred

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 
occurred were directly due to anti-Japanese education and
instigation inspired by the Nanking Government and the Kuo-
mintang; it wes Chine's duty to eradicate the fundamental
causes of these incidents; there was a widespread opinion in
Japan that further negotiations with China were useless;
however, if the negotiations sliould be broken off at present,
the lives and property of a lerre Japanese population in
China could not be left exposed to furtlher danger and it
would be necessary to consider tae steps to be taken; and
China was therefore now at the crossroads where it must de-
cide whether or not to slheke lands with Janan. The Minister
for Forein Affairs did not so into the uestion of the
nature or scooc of the demands contemplated by the Japanese
Govornnent.
It see med tnat Mr. Arita's puroose in issuing this state-
mont was to make it clear that the Japanese Government had
decided to excrt dctcrmined eiforts to bring about a settle-
Jepanese
ment, in eccordance with/desires, of penain problens in
China through diplometic means before resorting to military
action.*
Accorainf to a Shan hai despatch to the licChI dated
Soptember 30, Ceneral Chieng Hai-shck was delaying his
return to Nanl in because it would hurt his prestige to
accede to Japan's request, because he felt that the supreme
authority of the Government should not personally engago in
diplomatic ne otiations, and becausc Japan's desiderata
violated China's sovereignty and constituted "the greatest
possible shane, overstepping the last limits of forbcarance."
(b).
* Lmbassy'a dospatch No. 2061 of October 1, 1036.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
WE
(b).
Great Britain.
There was a runor to the effect that in a conversation
with Sir Andrew Caldecott, Governor of Hong Kong, General
Chiang Kai-shek had requested the 3ritish Government to
mediate between Japan and China to the end thet Sino-Japanese
relations might develop in favor of China. According to the
JAPAN ADVERTISER of September 25, Sir Robert Clive, the
British Ambassador to Japan, called on the Japanese Minister
for Foreign Affairs on September 24 and formally denied that
any such conversation had taken place between the Governor
of Hong Kong and the Generalissimo, adding that the British
Government had no intention of undertaking to mediate be-
tween China and Japan.
The First Secretary of the British Embassy told a
member of this Embassy's staff that Sir Robert Clive had
not formally denied the rumor, that the spokesman of the
Japenese Foreign Office had deliberately distorted the
statements made by Clive to Arita, and that Clive had simply
stated that Sir Andrew Caldecott had paid a courtesy call
on General Chiang Kai-shek and had in all probability not
discussed political matters.
A news item in the YOMIURI of September 29 stated that
the Japanese Foreign Office was considering issuing a strong
warning to the British Ambassador concerning a widely pub-
lished report on a statement made by Mr. Arita to Sir Robert
Clive on September 24; that Mr. Arita's alleged statement
was that Japan did not intend to resort to arms in solving
the Chinese problem; and that Arita believed that his
actual statement to Sir Robert Clive had been deliberately
twisted in British official quarters. On September 29 the
British Ambassador sent word to the Japenese Foreign Office
that

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
that there was no foundation whatever for the report that
he had been assured by Foreign Minister Arita in a conver-
sation on September 24 of Japan's intention not to resort
to ars in solving the Chinese problem.
WE
(c).
Gernany.
Domei published a rumor from Berlin on September 19 to
the effect that upon his return to Tokyo Ambassador von
Dirksen would enter into negotiations with the Japanese
Covernment for the building up of a German-Japanese front
against Bolshevis; that a nmilitary understanding between
the two countries had already been reached; and that if the
Japanese Government should eree with Germany's desire for
cooperation against Con.munism, the Reich might find it con-
venient to give formal diplomatic recornition to "Manchukuo".
According to the TOIYO NICHI NICHI of September 24, Germany's
reported proposal for a joint anti-Bolshevism front was
arousing considerable interest in the Japanese Foreign Office,
which wes appreciative of the marked tendency in Germany to-
ward a rapprochement between the two countries.
According to a Mukden despatch dated September 29 from
the staff correspondent of the TOKYO NICHI NICHI, Germany
was preparing to start negotiations with thc authorities
of "Manchukuo" for a major revision of the German-"Manchu-
kuo" commercial agreement which went into effect in June,
1936. The reason given by this newspaper's correspondent
for Germany's nove was that trade between the two countries
under the corimercial agreement has become unfavorablc to
Germany.
(c).
. "Manchukuo".
In a despatch fron Hsinking dated September 18, Domei
reported thet General Henkichi Ueda, Japanese Ambassador
to "Manchukuo" and Conmander of the Kwantung Arny, had on
that

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.98)
-8 -
that day issued a proclamation stating that the Kyowakei
(Concordia Society) of "Manchukuo", oombined with the
Government of "Manchukuo" and the Kwantung Army, constituted
the vital triple structure of thet country; that the Society
was the sole moral, cultural, and political organization for
practical action in "Manchukuo"; und that the administration
of "Manchukuo" was based on tho idcal of the realization
of the political principle of "wangteo" or the rule of right
and benevolence, unhampered by the troubles of democratic
parliamentary politics and by tho evils of autocracy. Gon-
eral Ueda's proclamation vas issued on tle occasion of the
fifth anniversery of the Manchurian Incident.
LA
(e).
Brazil.
Under the chairmanship of Dr. Joaquim Pedro Salgado,
former Brazilien Minister for Commerce, Industry and Labor,
the orazilian Economic Mission arrived in Tokyo on September
1? anā aepartcd on September 29 fur Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe, and
other cities. According to statements made to the press by
Dr. Salgedo, the purposes of the Miraion were the following:
to repay the visit, to Brazil in 1935 of the Japanese Economic
Mission under Mr. Hirao; to investifate the possibilities
of furtherinf Japaneso-Brasilian trade; and to make still
closer the traditional frienüship which has existed between
the two countries since the first Treaty of Amity and Com-
merce was signed in 1395. The members of the Mission were
elaborately entertained by Japanese officials and business-
men, beins treated es State guests.
There was no expectation that any sort of trado agree-
ment would b. concluded as n result of the Missior's visit.
The

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
The discussions that took place concerned ways and means
to increase trade between the two countries and certain
recommendations were approved by the Brazilian delegates
and Jepanese officials, among them the following: harbor
duties and other imposts on shipring in Brczil should be
reduced; Japan should endeevor to increase the speed of
its shipping service to Brazil and also the nuaber of sail-
ings and the ports of call in Brazil; and the use of the
yen exchange in Japanese-Brazilian trade sliould be encouraged
by both Governnents in lieu of the pound sterling or the
American dollar excharge.*
An item in the Tokyo ASAiI of 3eptember 1l stated that
Japan's total cotton imports from razil since January 1936
came to over 25e, Ooo bales, or scventeen times the amount
of Brazilian coiton inportea last year. According to the
JAFA TEsS of Septenber S0, on the revious day the Brazilian
Econonic Mission requcsted the Pippon Iron Manufecturing
Connuny to imnort maneanese cres fro. Drazil, stating that
mangal ese ores constituted cne of the urincipal products
of Brazil. It was understood by this newsuaper that negotia-
tions would be started shortly for investment by the Japanese
company in the mininc of Brazilien manganese ores.
(f).
Australia.
News despatches from Australia stated that the trade
negotiations between Sir Henry Gullett, Minister of Treaties
of the Australian Commonwcalth, and Mr. Kuramatsu Kurai,
Jepanese Consul. General at Sydncy, hud reeched a deadlock.**
Although Sir Henry Gullett was said to have denied reports
of an impasse in the trade necgotiations, the spokesman of
the
*
Enbassy's despatch o. 203? of October 1, 1936.
**
Embassy's Monthly Report for Aurust, 3ection II (c).

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10 -
the Japanese Foreign Office told foreign correspondents on
September 18 that Australia had rejected Japan's proposals
and consequently the negotietions had become deadlocked.
(g), nternational.
 patriotic association called the Snuinso (the Purple
Clouds Mansions Society) published an announcement in the
JIJI of September 16 stating tint Japan must take the
initiative in calling an international peace conference
with a view to halting the worla-wide drirt toward war, in
order to show the world the true peace licy of Japan and
to help spread the spirit of the Imperial Way. The announce-
ment went on to say that Japan should take the leadership in
abandoning the principle that a victorious war entails the
right of acquisition of conquered territories and that the
posit:n occupied by Japan in "Menchukuo" was something
entir  y different, the present airangement being merely
trans tional.
presentatives of the Kobe. Yokohama, and Nagasaki
Lunici: alities met in Kobe on Septcmber 16 to discuss the
questi n of liquidating the perpetual leases in those cities.
Accor:ns to the JAFAN CHRONISL of Septemuer 17, one of
these representatives made a speech in which he described
the perpetual leases as a "blot on the national honor" and
it ns cubsequently agreed by the representatives of the
three Municipalitics to ask the Government for its earnest
help in bringing ebout a settlement of the question of
porpetual leases and for governmental compensation for the
losses incurred by the municipalities in purchasing land
from perpetual lease holders.
III.
LNTERNAL POLITICAL AFTAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet.
The two principal internal clitical matters of concern
to

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
to the Government during the month were administrative
reform and the proposal for the natio nalization of the
electric power industry.
There continued to be friction between the Premier
and the War Minister over the latter's desire for exten-
sive administrative reforms which he had advocated ever
since the February 26 Incident.* On September 22 the
War Minister reportedly presented to the Premier the
following plan of administrative reform: the creation of
a Cabinet Minister without fortfolio who would control
the various existing bureauxfor investigation and coordine-
tion of legislation, which now report to the Cabinet; the
consolidation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
with the Ministry of Comaerce and Industry; the uniting
of the Ministry of Communications with the Ministry of
Reiiways; and the abolishment
of the Ministry of Over-
seas Affnirs.*
It the close of the month it did not appear that the
controversy between Premier Hirota and General Terauchi
would bring about the resignation of the Cabinet. Neither
did it appear that the War Minister's proposal of Sep-
tembcr 22 had any significance as a project for the exten-
sion of military control of the Government for a stronger
policy on the Asiatic Continent.
Interest in the proposal for the nationalization of
the elctric power industry vwas somewhat eclipsed by concern
over the tax revision plan.***
The Army and Nevy continued
to maintain that nationalization of thc elctrie power
industry was essential for the good of the State. It was
reported
*
Department'3 telegram No. 125 of September 30, and
Embassy's telegram No. 199 of October 1, 1936.
**
Embassy's dcspatch No. 2070 of October 3, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 2045 of 3eptember 18, 1936.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
- 12 -
reported by the press that members of the Cabinet had
agreed in principle on the proposel and that the opposition
of the Minseito and Seiyukai political parties was weakening.
However, on September 7 the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce passed
a resolution to the effect that the pien of the Communica-
tions Minister would undoubtedly create serious changes in
the conception of private pronerty, would raise suspicion
in economic circles regerdin the future policy of the
Government, and would discourage industrial enterprise.
Outline drafts of the Communications Minister's plan
for Government control of the electric power industry were
made public on Septomber 15. iowever, no decision was reached
on the matter during the month.
(b).
The Army and the Navy.
It was reported during the month that the War Ministry's
budget for the fiscal year 1937-1938 would arount to about
¥820,000,000, an increas6 of ¥312,000,000 over the Army's
budget for the current fiscal year.
A measure which caused a cortain amount of comment in
the Japanese press was the promulration
by the Government
on October ll of a decree providing that the Ex-service
Men's Associction shall be an official organization under
the control of the War end Navy Ministers and that it shall
not participate in politics. The prohibition against parti-
cipation by Army and Navy reservists in political affairs
received the approval of the vernacular press.
According to the ASAII of September 27, the War and
Nevy Ministries presented a joint plan to tho Cabinet for
the organization of a ¥100,000, 000 company for the lique-
faction of coal, one-lhaif of the money to be contributed
by the Government and the other half by private interests.
The military reportedly contended that the Communications
Ministry's

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
- 13 -
Ministry's project for the liquefaction of coal was
inadequate to provide a sufficient supply of domestic
oil to meet the needs of national defense.
(c). The Emperor.
On September 24 the Emperor left Tokyo for the Hok-
kaido to supervise the grand military meneuvers to be
held from October 3 to October 6. It was pointed out by
the press that this was the first visit of a Japanese
Emperor to the Hokkaião since 1880.
(a).
The Japanese Foreign Service.
It was stated by the TOKYO NICII NICHI of September 11
021
894.
that as a result of pressure from younger dinlomats and
outside sources as well the Foreign Office was contemplating
a thorough-goinf shift of Japanese chiefs of mission, em-
bracin the retirement of the following persons: Mr.
Haotale Sato, Ambassador to France; Viscount Kintomo
Mushakoji, Ambassador to Germany; Mr. Iemasa Tokugawa,
Ambassador to Turkey; Mr. Eisuke Fujita, Minister to
Rumania; MxxxXasxkiehi XatakexfxxmerxMinixtexxtoxSiam;
Mr. Akio Kasama, Minister to Portueal; Mr. Takezo Okamoto,
Minister to Persia; and Mr. Jiro Yemazaki, Minister to
Argentina. According to the TOKYO NICHI NICHI, it is
expected that Lr. Yotaro Sugimura, Ambassador to Italy,
will be appointed Ambassador to France to succeed Dr. Sato
and that Mr. Shigenori Togo, Director of the European and
Asiatic Affairs Bureau of the Foreign Office, will take the
place of Ambassador Mushakoji in Berlin; that Mr. Masaaki
Hotta, Minister to Switzerland, will be named Ambassador
to Rome; and that Mr. Toshihiko Taketomi, Minister to the
Netherlands, will succeed Mr. Iemasa Tokugawa as Ambassador
to Turkey. It was also reported that the Japanese Legation
in Poland would be raised to the status of an Embassy when
an

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
an appropriation for the purpose included in the budget
of the Foreign Office for the next fiscal year has been
approved.
(e). Reactionaries.
It was reported that on September 22 the police had
arrested over two dozen right-wing agitators, among them
a number of members of the "God-sent troops", for pre-
ventive detention during the period of the military maneuvers.
At a meeting held on September 26 the Meirinkai, an
organization of retired Army and Navy officers and other
men of nationalistic leanings, passed a resolution to be
presented to the Government calling for the suspension of
diplomatic negotiations with China and a "guarantee occu-
pation" of strategic points in that country.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
When the law providing for the protection and sur-
veillance of persons charged with dangerous thought goes
into effect on November 1,* according to Domei of Septem-
ber 23, the Ministry of Justice will establish "protective
thoughts surveillance stations" in seven cities and sub-
stations in fifteen other cities. These stations and sub-
stations are to be under the control of "thought guidance
officials" and "thought protection officials".
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Finance Minister Baba's plan for the revision of taxes,
an outline of which has been reported to the Department,**
was published on September 2. In general, the plan pro-
vides for an increase in the income, business profits,
and inheritance taxes. As announced by the Finance Ministry,
the purposes of the proposed revision are the following:
equalization
*
Embassy's despatch No. 20l7 of September 2, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2063 of October 2, 1936.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
- 15 -
equalization of the tax burdens of the people through a
fundamental reform of the central and local tax systems;
the remedying of the unequal burdens locally, between
rersonal and real property and between individuals and
juridical persons; the consolidation of the national
finances by increased taxation to prevent present expendi-
tures from being left entirely to the succeeding generations
to repay; and the establishment of an elastic taxation sys-
tem both centrally and locelly.
The Finance Minister's tax revision proposal was
opposed in Japanese business circles and by the Japanese
press and appeared to be a potential issue of foremost
importence in the internal political situation.
Accorcing to the JIJI of September 21, the expendi-
tures nrovided for in the budget for the fiscal year 1937-
1938 of an estimated ¥3,260,000,000 wi11 require the
issuance or bonds to the amount of ¥850,000,000, or about
¥150,000,000 more than the issuance for the fiscal year
1936-1937.
Mr. Eigo Fukai, Governor of the Bank of Japan, stated
on September 27 that in his belief the exchange policy of
the Finance Ministry would not be changed as a result of
the situation brought about by the devaluation of the
French franc.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a). Foreign Trade.
Jepan's September exports were ¥243,712,000, while
imports into this country amounted to ¥189,618,000, which
represented a favorable trade balance of ¥54,094,000 as
compared with a favorable balance for August of ¥38,367,000.
(b).

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
- 16 -
(b). Financial Trends.
a
Although the stock market was slightly unsettled, it
was remarkably steady considering the uncertainty caused
by Finance Minister Baba's tax plan and the difficulties
in China. The Government issued Y6ll,ooo Coo worth or
bonds during the month. For the first time in Japan's
history the national debt exceeded ¥10,000,000,000. The
average yen rate for September was 0.2934 as compared with
$0.2925 for August.
(c).
Aviation.
Domei of September 26 stated that a part of the funds
necessary for the encouragement of civil aviation in Japan
would be obtained by requiring depositors in postal savings
lanks to surrender their regular interest for a period of
threc years. It was also reported by Domei that the Com-
runicetiens Ministry would issue "patriotic postage stamps"
for the development of civil aviation.
VIJ.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMERCIAL IITERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FCREIGN COMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR AID EMIGRATION.
(a)
Labor.
There was some talk during the month of the establish-
ment of a popular front movement in Japan similar to the
movements in Spain and France. However, there appeared to
be no likelihood that e popular front would be established
in this country in the near future.* High officials of
the Home Office declared on September 7 that no popular
front movement would be tolerated in Japan.
The
* Enbassy's despatch No. 204ε of September 18, 1936.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
- 17 -
The Government's firm control of the labor situation
was demonstrated by the order issued by the War Ministry
on September lo to the effect that all laborers of the
military arsenals at Osaka, Nagoya, and Kokura, numbering
about 5,60o laborers, must sever their connections with
all labor unions on the ground that it was against the
principle and spirit of military discipline for such work-
ers to retain membership in labor unions. According to
the press, every arsenal worker in question took an oath
to withdraw from his union and never to join another one.
Resolutions protestin, against the measure taken by the
military were passed by the Social Mass Party, the Labor
and Farm Council, the Jepan Trade Union Congress, and the
Tokyo Traffic Labor Union. These protcsts appeared to be
ontircly ineffectual.
(b). Emigration.
Accoraing to the MIYAKo of September 20, the Navy end
War Ministries and other Government Departments interested
in Japan's southward expansion have dccided to ask the
Foreign Ofrice to open nogotiations with the Philippine
√9
Commonwealth Government and the Netherland Indies for
relaxation of their restrictions on Japanese emigration.
As already reportcd to tho Department*, Japanese emigration
to the regions south of this country is a part of Japan's
"economic und poaceful southward advance".
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Accordin to thc JAPAli ADVERTISER of September 26,
the Cabinet Intelligence Commission plans to publish a
wcekly edition of the OFFICIAL GAZETTE concerning current
internal
Embassy's despatch No. 2019 of September 2, 1936.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
- 18 -
internal, international, legal, scientiric, and economic
affairs, for the purpose of enlightening the Japanese
public on Government policies.
Considerable editorial comment and epistolary contro-
versy in the colunns of the JAPAN ADVERTISER were caused
by the report that on September 5 the Metropolitan Police
Board had decided to adopt a positive policy for the sur-
veillance of foreigners suspected of espionage and for the
guarding of Japanese womanhood from international scandals.*
This police campaign was said by Domei to have arisen
principally from the desire of the police authorities to
protect both national secrets and Japanese women at the
time of the holding of the Olympic Games in Japan in 1940.
ADDENDUM TO SECTION II.
EE
(h). Soviet Russia.
91
The Soviet-Japanese situation remained relatively
741.
quiet during the month of September.** Two reports of
particular interest were the following: that the Japanese-
Soviet negotiations in Moscow for a renewal of the Fishery
Treaty were progressing favorably, with the prospect of
the signing of a treaty some time during the month of
October, and that an extension of Japan's petroleum pros-
pecting rights in North Saghalien from 1937 to 194l had
been agreed upon.
It was again rumored that Japan was considering the
possibility of buying certain parts of Soviet Russia's
Far
* Embassy's despatch No. 2060 of September 30, 1936.
** Embassy's despatch No. 2069 of October 2, 1936.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
- 19 -
Far Eastern territory. On September 13 Domei reported
that with a view to removing causes of border friction
between "Manchukuo" and the USSR, Japan would try to
purchase all of Soviet Russia's Maritime Province and
parts of the Provinces of Habarovsk, Nikolsk-Ussurisky,
and Nijini Amur. This report did not explain by what
means Soviet Russia could be persuaded to relinquish
any of its territory, such relinquishment being entirely
opposed to the oft-repeated policy of the USSR.
National energy in Japan was so absorbed during the
month by the tense Sino-Japanese situation that there was
a lull in the border incidents and pretensions which
normally characterize Japanese-Soviet relations.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEFARTMENT
DURING SEPTEMBER. 1936.
No.
Date
Subject
2016
Sept. 1
Cost of Living Allowance Returned.
2017
Sept. 2
Law Providing for the Protection and
Surveillance of Persons Charged with
Dangerous Thoughts,
2018 Sept. 2
Rent, Heat and Lignt Allowance of Mr. Neville.
2019 Sept. 2
Japan's "Southward Advance" Policy.
2020
Sept. 2
Translation of Law Providing for the Amendment
of Law No. 4 of June 16, 1932, or the Law
Relating to the Specific Tariff of Import Duties.
2021 Sept. 2
Translation of Law Io. 40 of May 30, 1936,
Providing for the Amendment of Law No. 24 of
July 31, 1924, cr the Law Relating to Import
Duties on Luxuries.
2022 Sept. 2
Translation of the Law Providing for the
Amendment of tle Customs Tariff Law.
2023 Seot. 3
News Survey.
2024
Sept. 3
Law Providing for the Establishment of Retire-
ment Reserves and Retirement Allowances by
Employers for Their Employees.
2025
Sept. 3
Origin of Report of American Loan to China.
2026
Sept. 4
Japan Not Observing Hague Bill of Lading Rules,
2027
Sept. 4
Naval Salute, Fort Vinfield Scott, Califomia.
2028
Sept. 4
Froposed State Control of Electrical Industries.
2029
Sept. 4
Japanese Mint Statistics and Related Legal
Matter Obtained from the Japanese Government.
2030 Sept. 4
Japanese Action on Proposed Visit of U. S. S.
GOÍD STAR.
2031
Scpt. 4
Japanese Mint Statistics, 1935.
2032
Sept. 5
Diplonatic Visa Report.
2033
Sent. 12
Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
2034
Sept. 14
Transmitting Japanese Statistical Summary.
2035
Sept. 16
Japanese-Spanish Relations During the Spanish
Civil War.
2036 Sept. j7
Japanese Relations with Brazil and Other
Latin American Countries.
2037 Sept. 17
Seizure of Opium on the S. S. TAIYO MARU.
2038

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.92)
31
DIV
OFSTATE
THE FOREIGN
RECEIVE
9,12.400
DEPAN
15203
No. 2151
OF
AND RECORDS
EH
SUBJECT:
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
17.
THE MONTH OF OCTOBER, 1936.
LE
DIVISION OF
894.08(1
04
M
LATINAMERICAN AFFAIRS
DIVISION
OF EASTER
UEC.3N·1938
EUROPEAN AFFAIRE
OFSTATE
A-C/O
JAN 7- 1937
O. N.I. AND M.J.D.
file
894.00 P.R./107
!AN T
FAR LASTRN AIRS
DIYISION OF
MDG.
D8mc
onorable
1936
Uspartment of State
The Secretary or State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
1/
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions
in Japan for the month of October, 1936.
Respectfully yours,
1
E. R. Dickover
GDA:c/m
Chargé d'Affaires ad ie
800
MA
Enclosure:
1/ Report No. 121
Copy to Embessy, Peiping
Embassy, Moscow
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate General, Herbin
F/FO
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Dairen
Im guintuplicate to the Department

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
NO. 121
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
OCTOBER, 1936

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a) American-Japanese Relations in Connection
with the Sino-Japanese Situation.
1
(b)
Refusal of the Japanese Government To Con-
sent to the Proposed Visits of the U.S.S.
GOLD STAR at Palau, Truk, and Saipan.
2
(c)
American Petroleum Interests in Japan...... 2
(a)
American Official Suspected of Photography
in Prohibited Area.
2,3
(e)
Difficulties Encountered by American Con-
sular Officers in Procuring Commercial
Information in Japan.
3
(f)
Reception in Japan of Stimson's Book "The
Far Eastern Crisis"
3,4
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a)
China.
. 4,5,6,7
(b)
Great Britain.
7,8,9
(c)
The U.S.S.R..
9, 10
(a)
Brazil.
11, 12
(e)
Australia.
12, 13
(f)
Peru.
13
(g)
Turkey
.13
(h)
Finland.
14
(i) League of Nations.
14
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a)
The Cabinet.
14, 15
(b)
The Army.
15
(c)
Reactionaries.
15, 16
(a)
The Press.
16
(e) The Emperor.
16
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
Nothing to report.
V.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE:..
. 16, 17
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Foreign Trade.....
17
(b) Financial Trends..
17
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL IINTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COLMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
工x.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS:
Nothing to report.

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a).
. American-Japanese Relations in Connection
with the Sino-Japanese Situation.
At the request of Mr. Horinouchi, the Vice Minister
711.90
for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ballantine, First Secretary of the
Embassy, called on the Vice Minister on October 3.* The
gist of the Vice Minister's conversation was to the effect
that the principal desideratum of the Japanese Government
in China was the suppression of the anti-Japanese activities
and that the other Japanese "desires" were in no sense
"unconditional demands". Mr. Horinouchi specifically denied
that, as had been reported by the press, Japan was demanding
the right to station troops along the Yangtze River or the
establishment of an autonomous regime in North China.
On the same day the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
stated in a conversation with Mr. Dickover, the Chargé
d'Affaires ad interim, that Japan had no intention of
coercing China for the attainment of Japanese aims and
asserted that the only demand upon which Japan was insistent
was the suppression hy the Chinese of anti-Japanese propa-
ganda and acitation.
On October 6, acting under instructions from the
Department, Mr. Ballantine called upon the Vice Minister
for Foreign Affairs and read to him a statement to the
effect that the American Government was pleased to have
the benefit of such direct information from the Japanese
Government as had been communicated on October 3.
(b).
Embassy's telegram No. 203 of October 3, 1936.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
(b).
Refusal of the Japanese Government to Consent
to the Proposed Visits of the U.S.S. GOLD STAR
at Palau, Truk, and Saipan.
In reply to a note from the Embassy dated September 21
the Japanese Foreign Office by a note dated October 12
informed the Embassy that the Japanese Government was unable
for various reasons to give consent to the proposed visits
of the U.S.S. GOLD STAR at Palau, Truk, and Saipan.*
(c). American Petroleum Interests in Japan.
On the basis of assurances given by the Japanese Ministry
of Commerce and Industry the American and British oil interests
reached an agreement with the Mitsui interests on the general
principle that Mitsui would invest approximately ¥17,000,000
for the erection of tanks and for the purchase of petroleum
required to be kept in storage by the oil companies and that
the latter would compensate Mitsui for this service at the
rate of 7-1/2% on the investment.
On October 9 the representatives of the Shell and
Standard interests aadressed a letter to the Japanese Minister
for Commerce and Industry requesting that the latter confirm
oral assurances given by the Vice Minister for Cormerce and
Industry on September 19. No confirmation was received from
the Japanese Ministry of Commerce end Industry before the
close of the month.**
(d). American Official Suspected of Photography in
Prohibited Area.
On October 7 Lieutenant-Commander Ofstie, Assistant
Naval Attaché of the Embassy, was accused by a member of
the Japanese (endarmerie of having taken photographs from a
train near the aviation station at Kure.*** Lieutenant-
Commander Ofstie gave the suspecting gendarme the films
in
*
Department's telegram No. 121 of September 19, 1936, and
Embassy's telegram No. 210 of October 13, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2076 of October 14, 1936.
***
Despatch No. 2073 of October 9, 1936.

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
in his possession to substantiate the fact that he had
taken no photographs whatsoever after his arrival from
China at Shimonoseki. He explained to the gendarme that
he could not follow the latter's suggestion that he leave
the train at a nearby station, inasmuch as he had already
done everything possible to be of assistance in the matter.
Nothing more came of the affair during the month under review.
(e). Difficulties Encountered by American Consular
Officers in Procuring Commercial Information
In Japan.
It will be recalled that on July 27, 1936, in com-
pliance with the Department's instructions, the Embassy
made an informal and oral approach to the Japanese Foreign
Office in regard to the difficulties encountered by American
consular officers in Japan in the procuring of information
of a commercial or other non-military nature. On October 27
Mr. Matsushima, the Chief of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs
of the Foreign Office, replied to the approach which had been
made by the Embassy. Mr. Matsushima said that it had been
arranged with the locel Chambers of Commerce in Osaka and
Kobe and with the Japan Economic Federation in Tokyo to
supply any information to Consuls which they found difficulty
in obtaining through direct channels. He appeared to be
of the opinion that if this nrocedure were adopted suspicion
of the Consuls' motives in requesting information would be
avoided.*
(f).
Reception in Japan of Stimson's Book "The Far
Eastern Crisis".
Contrary to expectation, Mr. Henry L. Stimson's book
"The Far Eastern Crisis" was permitted to enter Japan by
the censorship authorities of the Home Office, which had
received
* Embassy's despatch No. 2l03 of October 28, 1936.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
received a suggestion from the Foreign Ofrice in favor of
the book's admission. Two prominent Japanese monthly
magazines carried incomplete translations of the book and
one of them contained an editorial by Mr. Masanori Ito,
the well-known magazine writer, who recommended that Mr.
Stimson's book be read analytically and without anger in
Japan and at the same time expressed his disagreement with
Mr. Stimson's interpretation of the nature of Japan's
interests in Manchuria and of the exclusively defensive
qualities of China's boycott against Japan. Excepting for
an editorial in the JAPAN ADVERTISER of October 24, no
other critical comment on the "Far Eastern Crisis" came
to the Embassy's attention. In the opinion of the Embassy,
the effect produced on Japan by Mr. Stimson's book will on
the whole be beneficial to the United States.*
II. RELATIONS WIT: OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a). China.
7
While no further inoidents occurred to acgravate the
already tense Sino-Jepanese situation which had arisen
largely as a result of the murders of Japanese subjects at
Chengtu, Pakhoi, and Hankow,** the diplomatic negotiations
between the two countries lookine toward an agreement based
on Japanese desires met with serious difficulties during the
month of October.
On October 2 the Japanese Government announced its
decision to send Mr. Kuwashima, Director of the East Asiatic
Bureau of the Foreign Office, to China for conferences with
Ambassador Kawagoe. In commenting upon this decision the
spokesman of the Japanese Foreign Office explained that his
Government, regarding the situation as grave, recognized
the
*
Embassy's despatch No. 21l2 of October 30, 1936.
**
Embassy's Monthly Report for September, Section II (a).

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
the necessity of conveying the "real intentions" of the
Japanese Government to General Chiang Kai-shek and that
telegrams to the Japanese Ambassador in China could not
accomplish this purpose. According to the Vice Minister
for Foreign Affairs, the primary purpose of Kuwashima's
trip to China was to bring perspective to the Japanese
negotiators on the spot. However, a possible reason for
Kuwashima's mission was the desire of the Japanese Govern-
ment to emphasize to Ambassador Kawagoe that he must take
his orders from Tokyo and not from his military and naval
advisers and also to make clear to the Japanese public that
the Foreign Office was using every diplomatic means to
solve the problem, so that it could not be accused of
remissness in the event of failure of the negotiations.*
Press reports continued to state that strong demands
had been made of the Nanking Government by Japan. In com-
menting upon a Reuter news despatch from London to the
effect that the Japanese demands included the right to
station troops alon the Yangtze, the right to edit Chinese
school texts, and the autonomy of the five Northern Provinces,
on October 1 the spokesman of the Japanese Foreign Office
denied that any such demands had been made and attributed
the spreading of the Reuter report and similar reports in
countries other than China or Japan to a malicious intent
on the part of those who would profit by alienating China
from Japan.** A move taken by the Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs to counteract the effect of such press reports has
already been mentioned.***
Upon
*
Embassy's telegram No. 202 of October 2, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2086 of October 16, 1936.
***
Section I (a) of present report.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
Upon the insistence of the Japanese Government, General
Chiang Kai-shek returned to Nanking for a conference with
Ambassador Kawagoe, which was held on October 8.
official communiqué issued after the conference stated that
General Chiang Kai-shek had expressed profound regret for
the Chengtu and other incidents and had also expressed his
accord with the Japanese proposition to make joint efforts
for the adjustment of relations between the two countries
and "thus contribute to the establishment of Far Eastern
peace". Domei reported on October 14 that Ambassador Kawa-
goe and the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs had resumed
their conversations on that day and that, according to
reliable reports, the Chinese Government had accepted Japan's
proposals for the settlement of the Chengtu incident and
also for a eneral adjustment of Sino-Jepanese relatinns.
Although the official communiqués issued in regard to General
Chiang Kai-shek's conference with Ambassador Kawagoe and
the conversations between the Japanese Ambassador and the
Chinesc Minister for Forcign Affairs were vecue and general
in tone, the Japanese news agency Domei and the press did
not hesitate to report the alleged contents of these con-
versations.
It was arparent at the close of the month that the
Japanese Government, for the present at least, had not
altered its policy of seeking its ends in China through
diplomatic means. It appeared that Chinese resistance to
the Japanese demands had definitely stiffened, particularly
to the demands in regard to North China and joint defense
against communism.*
Thus, the impasse reached in the
negotiations
* Embassy's despatch No. 2107 of October 29, 1936.

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
negotiations continued without the issuance of an ultimatum
or the employment of other forms of intimidation by Japan.
Presumably Japan had by the close of the month become aware
of a change in the Chinese attitude and had reached the con-
clusion that it would not for the moment risk the consequence
of "independent action", which would probably lead to armed
resistance by the Chinese. However, there remained the
possibility that Japan might be forced to take such action
either as the result of the occurrence of further anti-
Japanese incidents in China or the possible adoption of
such a strong attitude by China as to compel Japan to con-
sider its prestige on the Asiatic Continent.
WE
(b). Great Britain.
There was a feeling of distrust in Japan over Great
Britain's attitude toward and actions in China. The Japanse
Foreign Office appeared to be attempting to convince the
Japanese public that the Nanking Government was being
poisoned against Japan by British inspiration.* According to
Domei, Mr. Kuwashima, Director of the East Asiatic Bureau
of the Foreign Office, stated in an interview on his return
voyage from Nanking that he did not know whether the British
and American authorities in China were engaged in any secret
maneuvers but that he considered it significant that British
journals had published editorials sympathetic with China,
which he thought a reflection of the attitude of the British
Government. On October 1l several Japanese newspapers
reported that shortly after the inauguration of Sino-
Japanese negotiations at Nanking the British Government had
addressed communications to the interested signatories of
the Nine Power Pact suggesting a joint protest to Japan on
grounds
* Embassy's despatch No. 2086 of October 16, 1936.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
grounds of a violation of that Treaty. According to London
news despatches which reached Japan two days later, the
British Foreign Office denied this report. Great Britain
was severely criticized by the Japanese press for its alleged
extension of large credits to China and was accused of
breaking international good faith by supporting the Nanking
Government in a clandestine manner.
Several other matters complicated Anglo-Japanese relations.
On October 2l Great 3ritain officially notified Japan of
India's abrogation of the Indo-Japanese trade agreement,
to take effect on March 31, 1o37. Subsequently the Indo-
Japanese trade negotiations were reported to have become
deadlocked owing to disagreement in regard to the fixing of
quotas for Japanese cotton textiles and Indian raw cotton.
Authorities of the Keelun~ water police reportedly
accused three officers of the British submarine depot ship
MEDWAY of having taken photographs of strategic points out-
side the port of Keelung, Formosa, on October 6. Although
it was stated by Domei of October 7 that the police intended
to examine the British officers, the affair received no
subsequent oublicity during the month.
Further tension between the two countries was caused
by the mistreatment of thrce British sailors at Keelung in
the early morning of October 8.* An argument having arisen
between a Japanese taxi driver and the three sailors over
the payment of cab fare, the latter were arrested by the
Japanese police and, according to the British version, man-
handled and injured. News despatches from London reported
that Vice-Admiral Sir Charles Little, Commander-in-Chief of
the British naval forces in China, had postponed a visit
to
* Embassy's despatch No. 2115 of October 30, 1936.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.97)
to Japan in protest against the Keelung incident. On
October 30 the spokesman of the Japanese Foreign Office
told foreign newspaper correspondents that, according to
the police report received from Keelung, the three British
sailors had not been roughly treated by the Japanese police.
An article published in the KOKUMIN of October 29
indicated that the Japanese Government had given up the
idea of entering into a political arrangement with Great
Britain for cooperation. Since the KOKUMIN frequently
expresses the opinions of certain Japanese Army circles,
it is possible that the views attributed to the Japanese
Government came from military sources. In any case, the
chauvinistic elements in Japan hold the view that so long
as the importation of Japanese goods into British territory
is restricted a cooperative arrangement with Great Britain
woula be a one-sided affair.*
EE
(c).
The U.S.S..
711.9
Durinf the carly purt of the month tere appeared to
be a sli nt imnovenet in Japanese-soviet relations, prin-
cipally as e result of the a reenent said to have been reacned
at Yoscow on October 2 in settlement of the Fisheries Treaty
cuestion and the successful conclusion et Moscow on October 10
of the Japanese-Soviet ne otiations for the extension of the
Japenese oil concessions in orth Sarhalien.**
However, on October 1l occurred the first of a fresh
series of incidents and s irmishes on the Soviet-"Manchukuo"
frontier. Althouch some of these incidents were protested
against by the Japanese-"Manchukuo" authorities, there wes
a tendency on the pcrt of the Japanese authorities and press
to
*
Embassy's despatch io. 2113 of October 30, 1935.
**
Embassy's desjctch Mo. 2091 of October 13, 103s.
141.94
431

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10 -
to minimize the importance or such incidents, which was
possibly a consequence of Japan's desire to avoid jeopardiz-
ing the progress made in the improvement of relations with
Soviet Russia throufh the settiement in rinciple of the
fisheries end North Saghalien oil problems.*
On the other end, the outstandin: issue between Japan
and Soviet Russia, ncmely, the establisiment of a commission
for the settlement of border ais utes and of a commission
for the demarcation of the Soviet-"Manchukuo" frontier,
remained unsettled desnite further negotiations that took
place in Tokyo between the Soviet Anbassedor &nd the Japanese
Minister for Foreien Affeirs. On October 16 the Soviet
Ambassador called on the Jepenese Minister for Foreign
Affeirs and submitted counter-pronosals to those submitted
to the U.S.S.R. by Japan in July, 1936.
. Mr. Arita replied
to the Soviet counter-pronosals on October 20.
In the Japenese reoly the principal obstacle in the way
of reachin an areenent was a ain brourlt to the fore:
the
insistence by Japan that "Manchukuo", Jaan, and Soviet
Russie be separately and ecually represented on the border
dispute commission, as opposed to the Soviet stand that from
the point of view of representation on the commission the
U.S.S.R. must be regarded as one unit and Japan and "Manchu-
kuo" as enother unit. Mr. arita expressed the hope that Mr.
Toco, the Director of the Eurorean and Asiatic Bureau of the
Foreign Office, and Mr. Kayvid, the Counselor of the Soviet
Embassy, could begin ne otiations on the cuestion of the
cormosition of the commissions. The Soviet Ambassador was
reported to h ve renlied that because of its importance he
would have to refer this point to his Government for further
instructions.
(a).
* Embassy's despatch No. 2114 of October 30, 1936.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.97)
- 11 -
(a).
Brazi1.
On October 7 a conference was held in Osaka between
business leaders of that city and the Brazilian Economic
Mission, which had visited in Tokyo fron September 19 to
September 29.* Accordin to the OStkA MaIilICliI of October 8
and the JAFAN ADVERTISER of October 9, the following pro-
ceedings took place at the Osake conference: the Osaka
deleeation stated thet they were unable to comply with the
Mission's request that Japanese traders buy a minimum of
500,oo0 bales of razilian cotton annuail, but that pur-
cheses of this com odity would be as laree as possible;
the Japanese businessmen expressed the hope that Brazil
would speedily apply internationel standards to its cotton;
when esked to buy cotton from the northern as well as the
southern states of razil, the Japanese incicated that pur-
chases would be made in the northern states provided that
rerion slorld welcone Japanese imni rants; the dele(ation of
Japanese ereed to comnly as far as practicable with a re uest
that Japanese comnercial museuns be establisned in the lead-
inr cities of brazil for the po ularization of Japenese
coous and also with a request that Jap lese importers in-
crease their purchases of lumber, refrirereted meat, and such
mineral products as rienganese ores, niciel, and mica; the
Mission promised to supply detailed information on the wool
available in Brazil, to inform the Japanese in advance of
the time of biadin? in Brazil for the purchase of railway
construction materials, and to endeavor to have the razilian
Government chan e its specific tariff to an ad valorem
tariff; end the Mission made the su estion that Jupanese
and Brazilian businessnen epproach their respective Govern-
ients
Emrassy's despatch 1o. 2032 of October 1, 1933, and l1ontl:ly
Report for September, Section II(e).

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.98)
- 12 -
ments with a view to lowerin the cable rates between the
two countries.
The members of the Brazilian Economic Mission sailed
for Drazil on October 1c on board the O.S.K. BUENOS AIRES
MARU after a farewell ceremony held on the boat. As reported
by the OSAKA MINICII of October 17, Dr. Joaguim Pedro Sal-
gado, Chairman of the Mission, issued a farewell message
which ended as follows:
"Apart from this sentimental side, which pro-
foundly touched us, we must acknowledge our pleasure
of havin discovered Jepan to be greater than we
expected to find it, with an industrial develop-
ment cuite incredible to any one who has not actually
seen it.
"It is hih time, people of Japan, that justice
should be done to you and we shall feel at peace
with our own consciences if we are eble to help
somehow in this reparetion which it is your riglht
to expect.
"Our eyes, that have seen you, were clear-
sirhted and honest; they will, therefore, reflect
ri ht and impertial judgment.
"Be confident, heroic and devoted people!
We shall proclaim vhat you really are.
"To you our rateful farewell."
WE
(e). Australia.
Frospects for the conclusion of a compromise agreement
between the Japanese and Australian Governments on the
Japanese textile and the Austrelian raw wool issues seemed
sonewhat more hopeful than during the previous months. Ac-
cording to press reports, the Australian Covernment proposed
a barter agreenent whereby Australia's urchase of Japanese
textiles would be fixed at 120,000,000 to 130,000,000 yards
ennually and in return Japan's purchese of Australian wool
would be fixed at 400,O00 beles e year. The JAPAN TIMES of
October 27 stated that, according to information received
from authoritative sources, althourh Japan had been insistin€
that

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
that there should be no artificial limitation to Australian
purchases of Japanese goods, Japan now appeared willing to
make some sort of compromise.
LA
(f). Peru.
According to the JIAN VERTISER of October 8, I
Monteru Bernales, President of the Bernales Cotton Trading
Company and Director of the Agricultural Bank of Feru, told
a representative of that newspaper that his visit to Japan
was prompted by a desire to further Ja anese-Feruvian trade
relations through personal contact with business interests
in this country. r. Bernales refortedly stated that Peruvian
cotton was the best cotton grown in the ericas and was
well suited for the Japanese cotton spinning industry; that
in 1935 Peru's production of cotton amounted to nearly 400,-
o00 bales, of vnich Great 3ritain purchased 40%, Germany 30%,
and Japan 11%; and that Feru's comparatively low tariff
duties would rermit Japan to increase its export trade to
that country, particularly in light machinery, potteries,
and textiles.
NE
(s). Turkey.
It was re) orted by the press that on October 28 the
Turkish Governent had given to the Japanese Chargé d'Affaires
at Ankora official notification of Turkey's abrogation of
the Provisional Coumercial Agreement between Japan and Turkey,
to take effect on January 2, 197.* According to the ASAHI
SHIIBUN of October 3O, the Turkish Government stated in its
note that it had been decided to abrogate the Frovisional
Commercial Agreenent with a view to concluding a new trade
agreement more in keeping with the present conditions of
Turkey's domestic industries and foreign trade.
(n)
Embassy's despatch No. 1127 of January 10, 19:5, and
Embassy's despatch No. 2110 of October 30, 1936.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
(h). Finland.
Domei of October 1l stated that plens had been made
for the establishment of a Japanese Legation at Helsingfors
and that Lr. Shuichi Sako, Counselor of the Japanese
Embassy in Moscow, would be arpointed the first Japanese
Minister to Finland on November 1.
(i). League of Nations.
WE
Japan's annual report to the Mandates Commission of
the League of Nations, made public during the month, again
asseverated that Japan did not possess any fortifications
in its Mandated Islands.
III.
INTERNAL FOLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet.
Although the question of administrative reform con-
914
tinued to occupy the press, no progress was made in
clarifying the details of the reform proposal. Premier
Hirota appeared to be giving his personal attention to
the matter in private discussions but avoiding letting the
plan become an open issue.* Toward the end of the month
the newspapers reported that the Army had come forward
with a suggestion that political reform should include a
restriction of the powers of the Diet whereby Diet members
would not be permitted to become Cabinet ministers and the
political parties would be entirely divorced from the
administration of Government, being allowed only to debate
in the Diet. Opposition to the Army's reported reform
proposal was widespread.**
At a Cabinet meeting held on October 20 a compromise
agreement accepteble to Mr. Tanomogi, Minister for Com-
munications, was approved "in principle" on the much-
discussed
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2087 of October 16, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2ll7 of October 31, 1936.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15 -
discussed plan for ctate control of electric power industries.
While certain alterations were made in Mr. Tanomogi's original
plan, his thesis of "private ownership and state operation"
remained the basis of the compromise plan, the essential
points of which are as follows: that the various privately
owned electric power industries shall be required to buy
shares in a state institution called the Electric Power
Facilities Company; and that the Electric Power Facilities
Company shall, within a limited period of years, employ funds
derived from loans or surplus in buying back at par the
shares of those privately owned electric power companies
which are willing to sell their shares. It was understood
that the plan would be submitted to the Diet after the New
Year holidays and, according to press indications, it should
meet with opposition in that body.*
(b).
. The Army.
The grand military maneuvers were held in the Hokkaido
from October 2 to October 5. Two outstandine features of
the maneuvers noted by the Embassy's Military Attachó
were
that foreign observers were eiven the opportunity of seeing
lass than in former years and that the maneuvers were not
executed in as up-to-date a fashion as usually.
A War Office statement issued on October 1 reported
the suicide of Captain Wetaru Tanaka of the General Staff
who was involved in the February 26 incident.
(c). Reactionaries.
A new reactionary society, the Dai Nippon Seinento
(Japan Young Man's Party) held its inaugural celebration
on October 17. It is understood that the leader of the
new party is Colonel Kingoro Hashimoto, a colonel on the
reserve list, and that its function will be to spread the
ideal
Embassy's despatches No. 2083 of October 15, and No. 2109
of October 29, 1936.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16 -
ideal of the Imperial Way and "to construct a moral world".
(d). The Press.
At a conference with foreien newspaper correspondents
on October 6 the Foreign Office spokesman advocated the
€iving by Domei (the semi-official and sole Japanese news
agency) of some indication of the source of its news from
abroad. Apparently the succestion given by Mr. Amau to
Domei was the result of one of that agency's reports from
London to the effect that the British Government had con-
veyed strong observations to Japan with regard to the
Sino-Japanese situation.
(e). The Emperor.
It was again reported* that Admiral Kantaro Suzuki,
Grand Chamberlain, had made up his mind to resign because
of his responsibility over the February 26 incident.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Finance Minister Baba's tax proposal continued to meet
with opposition from financial circles, the House of Peers,
and the two political parties on the ground that it would
increase the taxation of the masses.** It will be remem-
bered that one of the foremost demands of the February 26
insurgents and consequently one of the principal points
in the Hirota Government's national platform was the
stabilization of the livelihood of the people and as a
corollary a decrease in the existing taxation burden on
the people. However, it appeared likely that Dr. Baba's
plan or a plan similar to it would be eventually adopted
in
Embassy's previous.Monthly Political Reports.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2088 of October 16, 1936.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
- 17 -
in view of the urgent and insistent demands of the War and
Navy Ministries for considerable increases in their budgets.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a). Foreign Trade.
Japanese exports for October amounted to ¥245,259,927
while imports into Japan amounted to v187,091,519 which
represented a favorable trade balance of ¥58,168,408 as
compared with a favorable balance for September of ¥54,-
O94,000. The increase in exports for the month was due
EA
to large shipments of cotton and rayon yarn and textiles.
It was reported that Japanese woollen textile manu-
facturers were confronted with two new threats to continue
expansion of their foreign trade: the reported intention of
the Union of South Africa to impose a prohibitive tariff
on imports of Japanese woollen goods and the proposed
establishment of a woollen textile industry in China, which
would absorb the Australian wool now boycotted by Japan and
would create competition for Japanese woollen textiles both
in China and in the world market.
Domei reported that Japan was willing to participate
in the proposed World Economic Conference but that at the
same time official and financial circles in Japan were
worried over a possible attempt by other nations to raise
the level of the yen should such a conference be held.
(b). Financial Trends.
The money market was tight, especially on short term
loans; the stock market was quiet; bond and share prices
weakened slihtly as a result of the Government's announce-
ment of its tax program; and the average yen rate for the
month was 0.2856 as compared with 0.2934 for the month
of September.
SECTIONS VII, VIII, IX and X: Nothing to report.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
DESPATCHES SENT TO TLE DEFARTIENT
DURIG OCTOBER, 1936.
No.
Date
Subject
2057
Oct. 3
Sino-Jananese Relations.
2031
Oct. 1
Sino-J& aiese elations.
2062
Oct. 1
Visit to Je en of tue rezilian Economic Mission.
2063
Oct. 2
Finance inister's Tax Revision Flan.
2064
Cct. 2
Ciher Tabies.
2065
Oct. 2
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2066
Oct. 2
Newsnaper Report of ajor General Tade's
Statement of 3eptember 24, 1935.
2067
Oct. 2
Perpetual Leases.
2068
Oct. 2
Woundinc of r. Dic'tover by a Robber on Sep-
tember 23, 1933.
2059
Oct. 2
Soviet Russian-Jcpanese Relations.
2070
Oct. 3
Extensive Aaministrative Reforn Proposed by the
Japanese Minister of War.
2071
Oct. 8
Measures Taken by N.Y.K. Line Against Narcotics
Smucglin.
2072
Oct. 9
Sino-Japanese Reletions.
2073
Oct. 9
Incident Involving Commander Ofstie.
2074
Oct. 10
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2075
Oct. 10
Sino-Jananese Relations.
2076
Oct. 14
American Oil Interests in Japan.
2077
Oct. 14
Occupants in Covernient-owned uarters.
2078
Oct. 16
Fiscal Reletions between the Governnent and Tokyo.
2079
Oct. 15
One Yeer Examination of Mr. Warner.
2080
Oct. 14
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2081
Oct. 15
Sino-Japanese Relations
2082
Oct. 15
Sino-Japanese kelations.
2083
Oct. 15
Nationalization of the Electrical Fower Industry.
2084
Oct. 15
Tuition Allowance for Lanuage Officers.
2085
Oct. 15
Assignment of Language Officers to Embassy.
2086

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No.
Late
Subject
2086
Oct. 16
Sino-Japanese Reletions.
2087
Oct. 16
Administrative Reform.
2088
Oct. 15
Tax Revision roject.
2089
Oct. 16
Froposed Visit of the U.S.3. COLD STAR.
2090
Oct. 16
Political Report for September
2091
Oct. 16
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2092
Oct. 21
Exchan e of Publications, Japan and the U. S.
2093
Oct. 21
Treasury Request for Japanese Document.
2094
Oct. 22
Request for Copy of THE FAR EASTERN CRISIS.
2095
Oct. 22
Exclusion of J. Spencer Kennard from Japan.
2096
Oct. 23
Faulty Check Issued to Mr. Dickover.
2097
Oct. 24
Laying of Keel of U. S. S. STINGRAY.
2098
Oct. 26
Book Ordered for Department Library.
2099
Oct. 26
Telephone Operators.
2100
Oct. 27
Article "China's Dilemma--Will She Fight Japan".
2101
Oct. 27
Runored German-Japanese Military Agreement.
2102
Oct. 27
Information for the T. V. Authority.
2103
Oct. 28
Commercial Information.
2104
Oct. 28
Looks for Department Library.
2105
Oct. 28
Rental Allowance for Gerald Warner.
2106
Oct. 28
Disposition of American ooks Excluded from
Japan.
2107
Oct. 29
Sino-Jepanese Relations.
2108
Oct. 29
Japanese-United States Fishery Negotiations.
2109
Oct. 29
Proposed State Control of Electric Industries.
2110
Oct. 30
Turco-Japanese Provisional Commercial Aereement.
2111
Oct. 30
Diplomatic Visa eport.
2112
Oct. 30
Japanese Reaction to Mr. Stimson's Book "THE
FAR EASTERN CRISIS."
2113
Oct. 30
Anglo-Japanese Relations.
2114

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
No.
Date
Subject
2114
Oct. 30
Soviet-Jcpanese Relations.
2115
Oct. 30
Injury of British Sailors by Taiwan Police.
2116
Oct. 31
American Publications Recently Excluded from
Japan.
2117 Oct. 31
Administrative ana Diet Reform.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING OCTOBER, 1936
No. Date
Subject
199
Oct. 1, 9 p. m.
Administrative Reform in Japanese
Goverment.
200
Oct. 1, 10 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Relations.
201
Oct. 2, 4 p. m.
Mr. Neville's Conáition.
202
Oct. 2, 7 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Relations.
203
Oct. 3, 7 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Relations.
204
Oct. 4, 1 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Relations.
205
Oct. 5, 9 a. m.
Return of Mr. Crocker.
206
Oct. 6, 3 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Relations.
207
Oct. 8, 2 n. m.
Requisition for Funds.
208
Oct. 9, 4 2. .
Sino-Japanese Relations.
209
Oct. 13, 2 p. m.
Departure of Mr. Meville.
210
Oct. 13, 3 p. m.
Proposed Visit of U.S.S. GOLD STAR to
Japanese South Sea Ports.
211
Oct. 14, 11 a. m.
Arrival of Mr. McGurk.
212
Oct. 14, 5 p. m.
Message for Secretary Morgenthau in
regard to Narcotics Matters.
213
Oct. 14, 6 p. m.
Methods of Cooperation with Japanese
Government on Narcotics Matters.
214
Oct. 15, 10 a. m. Request for Language Students.
215
Oct. 20, noon.
Barstow Claim.
216
Oct. 20, 4 p. n.
Requisition for Funds.
217
Oct. 22, noon
Sino-Japanese Relations.
218
Oct. 23, 1 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Relations.
219
Oct. 24, 11 a. n. Sino-Japanese Relations.
220
Oct. 25, noon
Sino-Japanese Relations.
221
Oct. 27, 1 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Relations.
222
Oct. 28, 1 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Reletions.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.95)
LECAL ADVISER
DIVISION OF WESTI RN
EURUPEAN AFFAIND
DEPARTHENT OF STATE
JAN01 3 1937
RECELVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE7
UNITED STATES OF
6 DEC 23 AM 11 39
No. 2173
AMERICAN EMBASSY
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECOROS
SUBJECT:
THE MONTH OF NOVEMBER, 1936
LATINAMEANAFFAIRS
DEPARIMENT OFDIATE
894.00PR
COPIES
O.N.1. AND.A.L.D.
cni
miD
Livision of
FAH LASTLMM AFFAIMS
DEC281936
894.00
UROPEAN
13
P.R./108
JAN 19
The Honorable
DÉPARTMENI OF STATE
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
With reference to the Department's instruction
OF STATE
Fewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions
in
Japan for the month of November, 1936.
STATE
Respectfully yours,
JAN 26 1937
FILED
GDA:c/m
Joseph C. Grew
800
Enclosure?
1/ Report No. 122
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Embassy, Moseow
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Dairen
In quintuplioate to the Department
F/Q
11

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.98)
NO. 122
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
NOVEMBER, 1936

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a)
Japanese Reaction to the Re-election of
President Roosevelt.
1
(b)
Decision of the United States to Retain
19,O00 Tons of Destroyers.
1
(c)
Japanese Reaction to Reportedly Proposed
Construction of a Seaplane Base on Midway
Island.
1, 2
(a)
Assistant Naval Attaché Freed of Suspicion
of Photographic Espionage.
2,3
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a)
China.
3,4
(b)
Germany.
4,5
(c)
Soviet Russia.
5,6
(a)
Great Britain.
7
(e)
Australia.
7
(f)
Brazil.
7,8
(g)
Siam.
8
(h)
Canada.
8
(1)
"Manchukuo"
9
(3)
Italy.
9, 10
(k)
Poland.
10
(1)
Spain.
10, 11
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a)
The Cabinet.
11, 12
(b)
The Diet.
12, 13
(c)
The Army.
13, 14
(a)
Political Parties
14
(e)
Reactionaries.
14
(f)
Communists.
14
15
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION: Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
15
VI.

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANC IAL CONDITIONS:
(a)
Foreign Trade..
. 15, 16
(b)
Financial Trends....
16
(c) Shipping..
17
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERC IAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS:
Nothing to report.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). Japanese Reaction to the Re-election of
President Roosevelt.
711.94
The Presidential election campaign of November l936
attracted perhaps more widespread attention in Japan than
any previous one.* Editorial comment on the re-election of
President Roosevelt was highly favorable. Regarding the
probable effect of the election on American-Japanese relations
in particular, the YOMIURI predicted that President Roose-
velt's "good neighbor" policy would be continued and the
TOKYO NICHI NICHI hailed President Roosevelt's re-election
in view of the Democratic Party's tradition against inter-
vention in foreign countries, pointing out that the Administra-
tion had consistently maintained the attitude of an "onlooker"
with respect to Far Eastern affairs.
According to Domei, Japanese business and financial
circles also acclaimed President Roosevelt'a re-election,
expressing the opinion that higher American tariffs during
the next four years were unlikely and that a continuance of
the President's relief policies would probably promote a
demand for Japanese goods.
(b). Decision of the United States to Retain 19, 000
Tons of Destroyers.
In accordance with the Department's instructions,** on
November 6 the Embassy informed the Japanese Foreign Office
by a memorandum that the United States Government had decided
to exercise its right under Aticle IVII of the London Naval
Treaty of 1930 to retain 19,000 tons of destroyers.***
WE
(c).
Japanese Reaction to Reportedly Proposed Con-
struction of a Sea-plane Base on Midway Island.
A report from Washin ton to the effect that the American
Navy Department advocated the construction of a sea-plane
base on Midway Island aroused little comment in Japan, which
would
Embassy's despatch No. 2121 of November 10, 1936.
**
Department's telegram o. 225 of November 6, 1936, and
Embassy's despatch No. 2139 of November 13, 1936.
***
Embassy's Monthly Report for September, Section I(a).

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
would indicate that the Japanese fully expected that such a
move would be made by the United States.* The only two
WE
newspaper comments that came to the Embassy's attention were
those in the JAPAN TIMES of November 15 and the TOKYO NICHI
NICHI of November 18. The former newspaper stated that the
Japanese Navy attached a great deal of importance to the
plan of the United States Navy for the reasons that it was
a move to extend the outlying base of the United States
naval air force to a point approximately 1,800 nautical
miles from Tokyo and that the proposed sea-plane base upon
completion would be able to accommodate twenty of the largest
sea-planes. On the other hand, an article in the NICHI NICHI
of November 18 minimized the importance of the United States
Navy's alleged project on the grounds that nothing could be
done to prevent it and that as a result of Japan's refusal
to continue naval negotiations at London in January 1936
this country must be prepared to see the United States in-
crease its armaments for the maintenance of its present naval
superiority.
In the opinion of the Embassy's Naval Attaché, the fact
that Japan has thus far not made an issue of the American
Navy's reported project indicates that Japan considers a
free hand in the Pacific to be of greater benefit than con-
tinuance under the present fortification restrictions. Such
a free hand would allow Japan to strengthen its naval de-
fenses to the southward for the acquisition of a hegemony
over the western Pacific and for the furtherance of Japan's
"peaceful and economic southward advance".
(a).
Assistant Naval Attaché Freed of Suspicion
of Photographic Espionage.
It will be recalled that on October 7 Lieutenant-
Commander
* Information obtained from the Embassy's Naval Attaché.

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Commander Ofstie, Assistant Naval Attaché of the Embassy,
was accused by a member of the Japanese gendarmerie of
having taken photographs from a train near the aviation
station at Kure.* An informal conversation that Lieutenant-
Commander Ofstie had at a social function during the month
under review with the Vice Minister for the Navy and the
Senior Aide to the Navy Ministry would indicate that the
Japanese authorities considered the matter closed and
tacitly admitted that the gendarme had been at fault. Both
these officials expressed to Lieutenant-Commander Ofstie
their regrets that the incident had occurred and implied
that the gendarme in question had obtained false information
from an idle bystander.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a). China.
7939
No progress whatsoever took place in the negotiations
for a Sino-Japanese accord at Nanking, only one interview,
that held on November 10, taking place between the Japanese
Ambassador to China and the Chinese Minister for Foreign
Affairs.** At the close of the month there appenred to be
little or no hope of a successful conclusion of the negotiation:
The political situation between the two countries was
further complicated by an outbreak of hostilities between
the Suiyuan Provincial forces of the Nanking Government and
the East Suiyuan Mongols. While the Chinese insisted that
the military activities of the East Suiyuan Mongols had
been instigated by Japan, the Japanese claimed that China
was using this allegedly baseless charge as an excuse to
obstruct
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2073 of October 9, 1936, and
Monthly Report for October, Section I (d).
**
Embassy's despatches No. 2127 of November 13, 1936, and
No. 2161 of November 26, 1936, and Embassy's telegram
No. 234 of November 14, 1936.

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.97)
obstruct the Sino-Japanese negotiations in Nanking. Japanese
instigation of the Mongolians to move against the Suiyuan
Provincial forces, if true, might have been one of the steps
prepared by Japan in anticipation of China's failure to agree
to Japan's so-called proposals for the readjustment of rela-
tions between the two countries.*
It became even more apparent during the month that for
various reasons Japanese public opinion was becoming calmer
and less truculent toward China.**
(b). Germany.
762.94
It will be remembered that on September 19 Domei published
a report from Berlin to the effect that upon his return to
Tokyo Ambassador von Dirksen would enter into negotiations
with the Japanese Government for the building up of a German-
Japanese front against Bolshevism; that a military understand-
ing between the two countries had already been reached; and
that if the Japanese Government should agree with Germany's
desire for cooperation against Communism, Germany might find
it convenient to give formal diplomatic recognition to "Manchu-
kuo".***
The Domei report was partially borne out with the announce-
ment by the Japanese Government on November 25 of the con-
clusion of a Japanese-German agreement providing for mutual
defense against the activities of the Communist International,
to remain in force for a period of five years. On November 23
the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs had given Mr. Dickover,
the Chargé d'Affaires ad interim, a summary of the agreement****
and on the afternoon of its release the Vice Minister had
given the Embassy the Japanese text and an "unofficial trans-
lation" in English of the agreement.*****
Although
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2l6l of November 26, 1936.
**
Embascy's despatch No. 2l27 of November 13, 1936.
*丰*
Embassy's monthly report for September, Section II (c).
Embassy's telegram No. 238 of November 23, 1936.
Embassy's telegram No. 24l of November 25, 1936.

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.95)
Although there is no concrete evidence of the conclusion
of a military agreement between the two countries and al-
though the Japanese Foreign Office denied the existence of
any such agreement,* many competent observers believe that
the Japanese and German General Staffs will, if they have
not already done so, work up some sort of mutual agreement
to implement the political pact against the Comintern.**
The existence of some sort of agreement between the two
General Staffs has been the subject of speculation for some
time past.***
(c). Soviet Russia.
Although aggravating incidents involving Japanese sub-
741.9l
jects or Soviet citizens during the month were few in number
E=
and relatively unimportant , save for an armed clash between
Soviet and Japanese frontier guards near Changtienying on
November 26, Soviet-Japanese relations took a decided turn
for the worse following the reports of the conclusion of
the German-Japanese agreement against the Communist Inter-
national.****
Mr. Mamoru Shigemitsu, recently appointed Ambassador
to the Soviet Union, left Tokyo for Moscow on November 5
and at a prcss interview held before his departure stated,
among other things, that there was no change in the Japanese
attitude toward a Japanese-Soviet non-aggression treaty,
adding that it was more important to create an atmosphere
favorable to the conclusion of such a treaty than to con-
clude the treaty.
Even before the announcement of the Japanese-German
accord against the Comintern, it appeared most probable
that the U.S.S.R. would continue adamant in its insistence
that the Soviet Union must be represented as one unit and
Japan
*
Embassy's telegram No. 238 of November 23, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2168 of December 4, 1936.
丰*
Embassy's despatch No. 1753 of March 30, 1936, and
Embassy's despatch No. 2l01 of October 27, 1936.
*
Section II (b) of the present report.

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
Japan and "Manchukuo" as another unit on any border com-
missions that might be formed.* In any case, after the
announcement of the Japanese-German anti-Communist agree-
ment became known on November 25, all indications pointed
to the conclusion that negotiations for the establishment
of a border demarcation commission and of a commission for
the settlement of border disputes would be broken off for
an idefinite period.
The draft of the new Fisheries Treaty, which had been
agreed upon in principle by the two countries**, was formally
approved by the Japanese Privy Council on November 18 and
instructions to sign the Treaty were cabled by the Japanese
Foreign Office to its Chargé d'Affaires at Moscow. However,
on November 20, the date set for signature, the Soviet
Foreign Office informed the Japanese Chargé d'Affaires that
"1n view of the threatening developments in relations" the
Soviet Government would not be able to sign the new Japanese
Fisheries Convention until the atmosphere had changed.***
With regard to the third important question in Soviet-
Japanese affairs, namely, the North Saghalien oil concessions
to Japan, an agreement concerning which had been concluded
at Moscow on October l0, it remained to be seen whether
Soviet Russia would in retaliation against the signing of
the Japanese-German accord create any difficulty in the way
of carrying out the concession agreement.
Possibly because of Soviet indignation against Japan
and Soviet pressure on the Outer Mongolian Government, the
preliminary border discussions between the latter Government
and "Manchukuo" were reportedly postponed for a temporary
period, although the only reason given by the Outer Mongolian
Government for such postponement was the illness of its
chief delegate, Mr. Samboa.
(a).
Embassy's despatch No. 2137 of November 13, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2091 of October 16, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 2160 of November 26, 1936.

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.97)
- 7 -
(d). Great Britain.
Relations between Great Britain and Japan, which had
become somewhat tense during the previous month, showed no
signs of betterment during November. The problem created
NE
by the mistreatment at the hands of Japanese police of
three British sailors at Keelung, Formosa, on October *
was not solved during the month and British representatives
in Tokyo openly stated that the British Government was not
satisfied with the reaction of the Japanese Government to
the British protest.** Furthermore, Japanese jealousy over
British influence in China was unabated and Japan's con-
clusion of the anti-Comintern accord with Germany was not
calculated to ease any misapprehensions that Great Britain
might have regarding Japan's imperialistic policies.
(e). Australia.
11
The hopeful trend in the negotiations between Japan
and Australia for the conclusion of a compromise agreement
on the importation of Japanese textiles into Australia and
the importation of Australian raw wool into Japan continued
during the month. According to news despatches reaching
Japan from Canberra, Australian political circles predicted
that a settlement in the trade dispute would be reached on
a basis of 40o,Oo0 bales of Australian wool to be admitted
annually into Japan and of 125,000,000 square yards of
Japanese cotton and rayon textiles to be admitted each year
into Australia. Likewise, Japanese opinion seemed more
optimistic with respect to the ultimate settlement of the
long-standing trade dispute.***
LA
(f). Brazil.
Two developments were reported as the outcome of the
recent visit to Japan of the Brazilian Economic Mission.***
According
*
Embassy's despatch No. 21l5 of October 30, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatches No.. 2l30 of November 13 and
No. 2149 of November 25, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 2169 of December 4, 1936.
****
Embassy's despatch No. 2062 of October 1, and Monthly
Report for October, Section II (d).

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8-
According to the JAPAN TIMES of November 6, on the previous
LA
day Japanese business concerns arranged for the organization
of a Japan-Brazil Enterprise Council under the sponsorship
of the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the object
of which would be to engage in direct negotiations with
Brazilian business interests for the development of trade
between the two countries. The second development, as
reported by the JAPAN CHRONICLE of November 17, was that
arrangements were being made by the Japanese Ministry of
Overseas affairs and Osaka business leaders to send a party
of engineers to Brazil to investigate the market for Japanese
machinery and to study the advisability of making industrial
investments in that country.
(g). Siam.
On November 5 the Siamese Government notified the
Japanese Government of the abrogation of the present Siamese-
Japanese Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, the abrogation
to take cffect one year after the notification. According
to the TOKYO NICHI NICHI of November 6, in handing his
Government's notification to the Japanese Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs the Siamese Minister in Tokyo stated that
his Government desired the abrogation of the present Treaty,
concluded at Bangkok on March 10, 1924, in order that Siam
might recover its "legal and economic autonomy" on an equal
footing. The Siamese Minister was said to have explained
that a similar proposal had been made to all Powers with
which Siam had concluded similar treaties.
(h). Canada.
111
On November 7 the Honorable Robert R. Bruce presented
to the Emperor his credentials as Canadian Minister to Japan,
succeeding Sir Herbert Marler, who departed for Canada on
July 3 en route to Washington to assume there the duties of
Canadian Minister to the United States.*
(1).
* Embassy's Monthly Report for July, Section II (g).

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
(1). "Manchukuo".
Further progress in the process of absorption of
Manchuria by Japan was described by the Japanese press
as continued favorable progress in the relations between
Japan and Manchukuo". According to Domei of November 5,
on that day a complete accord was reached on the general
policies of the "Manchukuo" Government's five-year indus-
trial program at a conference attended by representatives
of the "Manchukuo" Government, the Kwantung Army, the
Japanese Embassy, and the South Manchuria Railway. It
was reported by the TOKYO NICHI NICHI of November 18 that
the Communications Ministers of Japan and "Manchukuo" had
two days previously signed a mutual postal exchange agree-
ment to go into effect on December 1, providing that the
transfer account of each country shall be honored in the
other. Most of the Japanese newspapers reported on November
12 that the Japanese Government, having changed its mind as
a result of recent interviews between Mr. Matsuoka, Presi-
dent of the South Manchuria Railway, and Finance Minister
Baba, had agreed to pay cash for its unpaid shares in the
South Manchuria Railway Company. Finally, Domei thought it
worth while to report from Hsinking on November 25 that
Manchukuoan" Foreign Office circles had expressed the
fullest endorsement of Japan's action in concluding the
anti-Comintern agreement with Germany.
(j). Italy.
No official announcement was made in Tokyo regarding
the agreement reportedly negotiated between Japan and Italy,
although a Domei despatch from Rome dated November 28
stated that the Italian Government had on that day officially
announced the conclusion of a reciprocal agreement providing
for de facto recognition of Manchukuo" by Italy and of the
Italian

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
Italian Empire in Ethiopia by Japan. On November 30 the
spokesman of the Japanese Foreign Office denied that any
agreement had been reached in the negotiations at Rome
between the Japanese Ambassador and the Italian Minister
for Foreign Affairs, despite reports from Rome to that
effect. Mr. Amau added that the negotiations were not con-
nected with the recently concluded German-Japanese Comintern
agreement.* In addition, Japanese officials disclaimed the
wide scope ascribed to the negotiations by the press.
(k). Poland.
EE
During the early part of the month the Polish Chargé:
d'Affaires in Tokyo stated in a conversation with a member
of the Embassy's staff that he had been recently informed by
the Japanese Government of its intention to raise its
Legation in Warsaw to the status of an Embassy and that the
Polish Government was prepared to reciprocate. The Polish
Chargé d'Affaires added that for budgetary reasons of the
Japanese Government the change was not expected to take
place until after April 1, 1937.**
(1). Spain.
When questioned by foreign newspaper correspondents
concerning press reports to the effect that Tokyo would
recognize the Franco Government in Spain "as soon as its
military forces entered Madrid", the spokesman of the
Japanese Foreign Office stated on November 9 that his
Government would wait and see what the attitude of other
principal Powers would be. On the following day, accord-
ing to Domei, the Minister for Foreign Affairs told the
Cabinet that Japan might recognize the Fascist régime in
Spain
*
Embassy's telegram No. 245 of November 30, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2132 of November 13, 1936.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
Spain at an opportune time. The ASAHI of November 10
stated that Mr. Arita had made it clear to the Cabinet
that Japan would not act with unnecessary haste.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet.
On November 9 the Vice Ministers for War and Navy
894.002
submitted .to a conference of four Cabinet Ministers a
joint.recommendation for administrative reform, the chief
points of which were the following: there should be a
commission of general inquiry, supervision, and coordina-
tion under the jurisdiction of the Prime Minister; the
head of this commission, whether or not a Cabinet member,
should be authorized at times to attend Cabinet meetings
in the capacity of a Cabinet Minister (this point represented
a concession to the opposition to the Army's original plan
of having a Cabinet Minister without Portfolio as the head
of this office); the Foreign Office and the Ministry of
Overseas Affairs should be combined in the interest of a
unified external policy; the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry should
be combined; foreign trade, fuel policy, electric power,
and other matters should be controlled by a unified office;
aviation, railways, roads, wharves, and all communications
should be under the control of a single Department with
particular stress upon the promotion of civil aviation;
and the Law of the Houses of the Diet, as well as the
Election Law, should be revised for the purpose of renovating
the Diet.*
There was very little discussion in the press of the
Government's plan for state control of electric power
industries
* Embassy's despatch No. 2l41 of November 14, 1936.

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.98)
- 12 -
industries, the matter apparently being considered closed
until the opening of the next Diet Session.* However, a
joint statement urging the Government to leave the manage-
ment of electric power industries in private hands was
issued by executives of the so-called "Big Five" electric
power companies on November 14.
(b). The Diet.
The proposal put forward by undefined military circles
for restriction of the Powers of the Diet** was received with
widespread and intense opposition. Consequently, the War
Minister on November 6 issued a statement in which he denied
that the Army had any intention of reducing the powers of
the Diet. On the same day General Terauchi told Cabinet
members that the Army's policy of giving expression to
political views only through the War Minister would remein
unchanged and he denied knowledge of the source of the pro-
posal for drastic Diet restriction attributed by the press
to the Army. There were evidences of resentment among some
of the younger and more politically-minded officers of the
Army after the issuance of the War Minister's statement.
As already stated in this report, on November 9 the
Vice Ministers for War and Navy presented a joint statement
for administrative reform to a conference of four Cabinet
Ministers which contained a vague proposal for renovation
of the Diet system. This proposal appeared to be a compro-
mise to appease the younger Army element on one hand, and
to agree with the War Minister's statement of November 6
that the Army did not intend to reduce the powers of the
Diet on the other hand.***
Despite
*
Monthly Report for October, Section III (a).
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2ll7 of October 31, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 2131 of November 14, 1936.

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
13 -
Despite the War Minister's statement of November 6
and the joint statement of the War and Navy Ministers of
November 9, on November 16 the Diet System Investigation
Commission requested that the War Minister appear before
it and explain his ideas on Diet reform. The War Ministry
was strongly opposed to this suggestion, while the political
parties insisted that the War Minister appear before the
Commission. At the close of the month, however, it appeared
that some compromise arrangement would be made to settle
the controversy.*
An Imperial Ordinance was published in the OFFICIAL
GAZETTE of November 9 convoking the 7Oth Session of the
Diet on December 24, 1936.**
(c). The Army.
On November 5 the Army issued one of its regular pam-
***
phlets, the particular purpose of this one being an explana-
tion of the unusually large budget demands of the Army.
Most of the pamphlet is concerned with a recital of the
expenditures on Japanese armaments and a statement explain-
ing the necessity for military preparedness. It reiterates
the  three-fold policy of Japan: (1) the sound development
of Manchukuo"; (2) harmony among China, "Manchukuo", and
Japan; and (3) the consolidation of Japan's position as
the sole stabilizing force in East Asia. The most import-
ant internal political aspect of this Army pamphlet is
that it advocates a totalitarian state as the proper form
of government for Japan.
The Army made a proposal, published in the vernacular
press during the early part of the month, for the enact-
ment of a plan for the mobilization of the nation's
resources
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2163 of November 26, 1936.
Embassy's despatch No. 2129 of November 13, 1936,
***
Embassy's despatch No. 2136 of November 13, 1936.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
resources to affect all basic industries as well as capital,
labor, transportation, and communication.*
(a). Political Parties.
While individual members of the Minseito and the Sei-
yukai were reported to have endorsed the Japanese-German
anti-Comintern Pact after it had been made public on Novem-
ber 25, the Social Mass Party issued a statement on November 28
opposing the agreement because of the crisis in international
relations confronting Japan.
(e). Reactionaries.
It was reported by the CHUGAI of November 29 that,
stimulated to action by the conclusion of the Japanese-
German anti-Comintern agreement, leaders of several reac-
tionary groups had decided to attempt to combine all rightist
organizations in Japan into one organization, the purpose of
which would be to combat the alleged popular front movement
and the movement of the Minseito and the Seiyukai for the
protection of constitutionalism.
(f). Communists.
Another reported result of the signing of the Japanese-
German anti-Comintern Pact was the announcement on November 29
that the Minister for Justice would instruct chief judges and
chief procurators to exterminate all Communist elements in
Japan. In this connection the JAPAN TIMES of November 30
pointed out that Communism in Japan had already been practi-
cally wiped out and that a further anti-Gommunist drive
would probably lead overzealous judicials and police officials
to mistake liberalism and democracy for Communism.
(g).
* Embassy's despatch No. 2135 of November 13, 1936.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15 -
(g). The Emperor.
Admiral Saburo Hyakuteke, retired, was formally installed
as Grand Chamberlain to the Emperor, on November 2l, suc-
ceeding Admiral Kantaro Suzuki. It will be recalled that
Admiral Suzuki was seriously wounded by the February 26 in-
surgents and that for some time he had been contemplating
resigring on account of his self-assumed responsibility for
the February 26 Incident.
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
According to press reports, on November 27 the Cabinet
approved for presentation at the next session of the Diet a
national budget for the fiscal year 1937-1938 of ¥3,041,000,000,
a record budget in the history of Japan. According to news-
paper estimates, the budget for the next fiscal year, if
approved by the Diet, will be ¥731,000,000 higher than the
budget of ¥2,310,000,000 for the current fiscal year. It
was also estimated by the press that the Army and Navy share
of the budget as approved by the Cabinet is 46% of the total
budget and is ¥350,000,000 higher than the military share for
the fiscal year 1936-1937.
VI. GENERAL ECONCMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a). Foreign Trade.
Japan's exports for the month were ¥236,877,000 and
imports into this country were ¥2l8,015,000, which represented
a favorable balance of trade of ¥18,862,000 as compared with
a favorable balance for October of ¥58,168,408.*
Various measures were reported to be under consideration
by the Japanese Government for the enhancement of Japanese
foreign
* Figures obtained from the Commercial Attaché's office.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16 -
foreign trade. The principal measure in this program was
said to be a plan for the establishment of a double-tariff
system by which additional duties of lo0% would be levied
on goods coming from countries with which Japan has nót a
favored-nation agreement or from countries with which Japan
has no trade treaty. It was reported that the purpose of
this project was the prevention of the abrogation of trade
treaties by countries with which Japan has such treaties
and a warning to non-treaty countries that negotiations must
be engaged in with Japan for the conclusion of commercial
treaties.
According to press reports, the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry has decided to submit a foreign trade control
bill and a foreign trade guild bill to the Diet by which a
stricter Government control of Japanese imports and exports
would be established, including the establishment of a com-
mission to harmonize the interests of manufacturers and traders.
It was also reported that there would be presented to the Diet
a bill for the establishment of an export tariff to "encourage
and control the nation's foreign Trade" which would yield
about ¥4,000,000 annually and another bill for the imposition
of a statistics tax which would bring in about ¥5,000,0o0 a
year to be used for the compilation of reliable and extensive
figures on export trade.
(b). Financial Trends.
The money market was active as compared with a sluggish
money market for October; the stock market was quiet, princi-
pally on account of the unsatisfactory progress of the Sino-
Japanese negotiations and the Government tax increase program;
the average yen rate for the month was 0.2850 as compared
with $0.2856 during the month of October.*
(c).
* Information obtained from the Commercial Attaché's Office.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
- 17 -
(c). Shipping.
The TOKYO NICHI NICHI of November 6 reported that the
number of men employed in shipbuilding had doubled since
1934, that Japanese shipbuilding activity during the current
year would be the greatest since l9l9, and that Japan now
stood third among the maritime nations of the world from
the point of view of ship tonnage.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
Dx.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION.
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 1.00)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING NOVEMBER, 1936.
No.
Date
Subject
2118
Nov. 13
Japanese Reply to Lansing Memoirs.
2119
Nov. 6
Tokuo Suwabe.
2120
Nov. 7
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2121
Nov. 12
Japanese Reaction to Re-election of President
Roosevelt.
2122
Nov. 12
Mr. Stimson's Book "Far Eastern Crisis".
2123
Nov. 11
Appeal for Liberalization of Japanese Diplomacy.
2124
Nov. 12
Publication for the Department.
2125
Nov. 12
Sick Leave of Mr. Dickover.
2126
Nov. 12
Japanese Naval Vessels Visit to Port Arthur,Texas
2127
Nov. 13
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2128
Nov. 13
Trial of Former Railway Minister.
2129
Nov. 13
Japanese Diet to Convene December 24, 1936.
2130
Nov. 13
Injury of British Sailors at Keelung.
2131
Nov. 14
Diet Reform.
2132
Nov. 13
Japanese Embassy to Poland.
2133
Nov. 13
Flight of Airplane over Island of Rota.
2134
Nov. 13
Embassy Transformers.
2135
Nov. 13
Mobilization Plan Advanced by The Army.
2136
Nov. 13
Japanese Army Pamphlet.
2137
Nov. 13
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2138
Nov. 14
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2139
Nov. 13
Decision of the United States to Retain 19,000
Tons of Destroyers.
2140
Nov. 14
Rumored Negotiations between Japan and Germany.
2141
Nov. 14
Administrative Reform.
2142
Nov. 18
Laying of Keel of U. S. S. STURGEON.
2143
Nov. 19
Document Ascribed to Major General Matsumuro.
2144
Nov. 19
Publication for the Department.
2145
Nov. 20
Contract Numbers in Accounts.
2146
Nov. 21
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2147

=== Page 241 === (confidence 1.00)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
2147
Nov. 25
Lessening of Belligerent Spirit in Japan.
2148
Nov. 25
Floor Wax.
2149
Nov. 25
Keelung Incident.
2150
Nov. 25
Prince Chichibu to attend Coronation of
King Edward.
2151
Nov. 25
Monthly Political Report for October.
2152
Nov. 26
First Year Examinations of Language Students.
2153
Nov. 26
First Year Examination of Mr. Caldwell
2154
Nov. 26
First Year Examination of Mr. Johansen.
2155
Nov. 26
First Year Examination of Mr. Johnson.
2156
Nov. 26
First Year Examination of Mr. Richardson.
2157
Nov. 26
First Year Examination of Mr. Schmidt.
2158
Nov. 26
First Year Examination of Mr. Yuni.
2159
Nov. 26
German-Japanese Agreement.
2160
Nov. 26
Soviet-Japanese Agreement.
2161
Nov. 26
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2162
Nov. 26
Case of Father Burns.
2163
Nov. 26
Army Opposition to War Minister's Appearance
before Diet Commission.
2164
Nov. 28
Japanese Customs Tariff.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 1.00)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING NOVEMBER, 1936.
No. Date
Subject
223
Nov. 4, 4 p. m.
Requisition for Funds.
224
Nov. 5, 3 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Relations.
225
Nov. 6, noon
American Retention of Destroyer Tonnage.
226
Nov. 7, 10 a. m.
American-Japanese Cooperation on
Narcotics Matters.
227
Nov. 7, 1 p. m.
Receipt of Cipher Tables.
228
Nov. 7, 1 p. m.
Receipt of Cipher Tables.
229
Nov. 9, 5 p. m.
American Rentention of Destroyer Tonnage.
230
Nov. 11, 4 p. m.
Perpetual Lease Question.
231
Nov. 11, 6 p. m.
Rumored German-Japanese Negotiations.
232
Nov. 13, 5 p. m.
Rumored German-Japanese Negotiations.
233
Nov. 13, 7 p. m.
Visit to Japanese Ports of U.S.S. GOLD
STAR.
234
Nov. 14, 11 a. m.
Sino-Japanese Relations.
235
Nov. 18, noon
German-Japanese Negotiations.
236
Nov. 19, 5 p. m.
German-Japanese Negotiations.
237
Nov. 20, 5 p. m.
German-Japanese Negotiations.
238
Nov. 23, 6 p. m.
German-Japanese Negotiations.
239
Nov. 24, noon
Consul General's Comments on
September Accounts.
240
Nov. 25, 6 p. m.
American-Japanese Cooperation on
Narcotics Matters.
241
Nov. 25, 7 p. m.
German-Japanese anti-Comintern Agreement.
242
Nov. 27, 10 a. m.
Return of the Ambassador.
243
Nov. 27, 4 p. m.
Proposed Departure of Mr. Ballantine.
244
Nov. 28, 2 p. m.
Arrival of Nine Pouches.
245
Nov. 30, 2 p. m.
Italo-Japanese Negotiations.
246
Nov. 30, 6 p. m.
American-Japanese Cooperation on
Narcotics Matters.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.92)
ADVISER
NAR17 1937
STATES
6.7,8
UEPARIMENI OI SIALE
1987.
9.10
MEPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
3,10,11,
THE MONTH OF DECTEMBER, 19S6.
D:VISION OF
DEFANTMENT
OF STATE
MAR 16 19379
LATINAMEHICAN AFFAIRS
A
EPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARINT OF STATE
S
ECE
Excrsph t:
DEFANTT
5
137 FEB 19
AC!C
Commnce
Laton
RECORDING DESK
FILE
eaci
O.N. L. AND A.ID.
A
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
MAR 3 -1937
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
1/
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions
in Japan for the month of December, 1936.
Respectfully yours,
GDA:C
Joseph C. Grew.
800
Encloshre:
1/ Report No. 123.
sy, Peiping
sy, Moscow
hate General, Shanghai
hate General, Mukden
late General, Harbin
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Dairen
In quintuplicate to the Department
cofy ratarind for note
429

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 123.
REFORT ON COIDITIOY IF JALAN DURING
DECE:BER, 1936.

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.97)
INDEXANDSUHMARY
I. RELATIO: VITH THE ULITED STATES:
(a) Amcrican and  ritish Oil Interests
in Japan....
1
(b) Retention of Excess Submarine Tonnage
by the Japanese and American Gov-
ernments.
2
(c) Forthcomin Visit of American
Textile Mission....
3
(d) Japanese Press Reaction to Fan Ameri-
can Conference at Buenos Aires....... 3,4
(e) Settlement of Controversy between
Alerican Government and Japanese
Shippin Companies over Tar Profits
Taxes.....
(f) Uaveiling of Townsend Harris
onument.
4
II. RELATIONS VITH OTIER COUTTRIES:
(a) China.
5,6
(b) Greet Britain...
6
(c) Ger......
(d) Itrly.
7,8
(e) Belcium.....
8
(f) Australia....
8,9
() Sovict Russia....
9,10
(h) Tol: nd..
10
(i) Drezil.
10,11
(j) Tεraruay....
11
TII. IPTERI L POLITIC.L AFF IRC
(a) Thc Cabinet....
11,12
(b) The Ary.......
13,14
(c) The Diet.
1:,15
IV. COURSE CF LEGISL: TIOF.
15,16
V.
GOVERNEEIT FINANCE.
16

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
VI. GEIERAL ECONOMIC AND FINA CIAL COI DITIONS:
(a) Foreign Trade....
(b) Financial trends..
16
VII: ACTIVITIES OF ERICAL COLL ERCIAL ITERESTS;
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COLL ERCIAL IITERESTS:
Nothing to report.
IX. LADOR A.D ENIGRATION:
(a) Labor......
17
(b) migration...
17
X. MISCELLAHEOUS:
Yothing to report.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 1.00)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) American and British Oil Interests in Japan.
No satisfactory written confirmation was received
from the Japanese Government of the oral assurances
894.6363
given to the representatives of the American and British
oil interests on September 19, 1936, by Mr. Yoshino, then
Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry.* Furthermore,
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry having adopted an
antagonistic attitude in November, certain other indi-
cations of opposition to and discrimination against the
foreign oil companies became manifest in the first half
of December. Therefore the representatives of the Ameri-
can and British companies came to the conclusion that
little or nothing could be expected from the oral assur-
ances which had been given in good faith by Mr. Yoshino
before his resignation as Vice Minister for Commerce and
Industry.**
Consequently, after consultation between the Ameri-
can and British oil representatives and their respective
Embassies and under instructions received from the Gov-
ernments of the United States and reat Britain, the Ameri-
can and British Embassies on December 24 made substantial-
ly identicel (not joint) representations in writing to the
Japanese Foreign Office in which each Government expressed
its anxiety with regard to the future of its oil interests
in Japan, requested a definite indication from the Japan-
ese Government that the latter does not desire to force
those oil interests out of Japan, and expressly requested
that the Japanese Government give the written assurances
sought
*Embassy's despatch No. 2076 of October 14, 1936.
**Embassy's despatch No. 2194 of December 28, 1936.

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
sought by its oil interests for the continuation of op-
erations in Japan.*
On December 25, the day after the making of repre-
sentations, a report was published by Domei to the effect
that the American Ambassador had notified the Minister
for Foreign Affairs of the intention of the United States
Government to retain 19,000 tons of destroyers in excess
of the London Treaty limits because of Great Britain's
retention of five "B" class cruisers under the authority
of Article 17 of the London Naval Treaty. Since the
American Government's notification of the retention of
destroyers had been made on November 6, there is a
possibility that the Japanese Foreign Office gave out
this version of the Ambassador's conversation with Mr.
Arita in an effort to conceal the fact that representa-
tions had been made by the American and British Govern-
ments on the oil question.
(b) Rctention of Excess Submarine Tonnage by the
Japanese and American Governments.
On December 29 the Japanese Ambassador in Washington
informed the American Government of the formal invoca-
tion by his Government of Article 2l of the London Naval
Treaty for the retention by Japan of 15, 598 tons of excess
submarines. In reply the American Government stat by
note that it would exercise its right to retain a pro-
portionate amount of submarine tonnage and on December 31,
1936, would have 15,230 tons of excess submarines.**
(c)
* Department's telegram No. 160 of December 17, 1936,
and Embassy's telegram No.264 of December 19, 1936.
**
Department's telegram No. 166, December 31, 1936.

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
(c) Forthcoming Visit of American Textile Mission.
On December 18 Domei conveyed to the Japanese people,
particularly the cotton textile interests, a message from
Dr. Claudius T. Murchison, head of the unofficial Ameri-
can Textile Mission scheduled to sail for Japan on Decem-
ber 24. The gist of this message was that the Mission,
recognizing the difficulty of solving problems of inter-
national trade by unilateral government action, strongly
desired to achieve mutual understanding between the Ameri-
can and Japanese textile interests, which would contribute
toward a continuance of mutually profitable trade relations
and a strengthening of good will between the two countries.
According to the Japanese press of Kobe and Osaka,
industrial circles in Osaka seemcd to feel that the coming
Mission was only a tourist party and that few if any tan-
gible benefits could be derived from the visit of the
Mission.*
LA
(a) Japanese Press Reaction to Pan-American
Conference at Buenos Aires.
There was very little newspaper comment on the
proceedings of the Inter-American Peace Conferonce which
opened at Buenos Aires on December 1. However, an edi-
torial in the ASAHI of Dccember 17 asserted that there
was ground for the apprehension which somc of the Ameri-
can republics might be entertaining lest a new Adminis-
tration "wedded to Imperialism" shculd come to power in
the United States four years hence and undo the work of
the Rooscvelt Administration. Going further, a columnist
stated
* Despatch from Consulate at Kobe, No. 6l, dated
December 28, 1936.

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
stated in the December :6 issue of the OSAKA MAINICHI
that outwardly the Uni id States might be making an al-
truistic move in givin, a new interpretation to its
Monroe Doctrine but thi : it was "unbelievable that any
powerful nation would : llow a foreign policy of self-
sacrifice."
(e) Settlement of
ontroversy between American
Government an
Japanese Shipping Companies
over War Prof
s Taxes.
The settlement in Jovember 1936 of the long-standing
controversy between thoUUnited States Treasury Department
and the Nippon Yusen Ki .sha, the Osaka Shosen Kaisha, and
the Toyo Kisen Kaisha, ver the payment by the Japanese
shipping companies of : lditional war profits taxes* was
reported inconspicuous: , in the ASAHI of December 3.
far as the Embassy is & rare, this was the only notice
given by the Japanese  ess to the settlement of the dis-
pute.
(f) Unveiling of  wnsend Harris Monument.
On December 19 at :he Zempuku-ji temple, the site
of the first Legation ( ' the United States in Tokyo, a
monument was unveiled  , Townsend Harris, the first
American Minister to Ji an.**
It was presented by a
group of Japanese head l by Mr. Takashi Masuda, who had
known Harris, and the , remony of unveiling was carried
out under the auspices f the America-Japan Society. The
monument was unveiled l, Mrs. Grew and speeches were de-
livered by the Ambassat r, Prince Tokugawa, and Mr. Masuda.
II
Department's instrut ion No. i150 of December 2, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch 1 . 2195 of December 19, 1936.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.93)
-5-
II. RELATIONS TITH OTHR COUNTRIES.
(c) Chinc.
N-goti tions betwoon the Japenose Ambossador to
793.90
Chinc nd the Chinesc Ministor for For-i n Affairs for
sottlcment of diffcrencs butwcen the two countrics
based on Jepnose dusidurctc. werc bondoned during
the crrly port of the month.*
Duspito officirl Japeneso denirls, it ppocred
thot the Kwantung Army had given morrl if not metorial
support to the East Suiyuan lfongols in thcir hostilitics
ag-inst the Chinese Suiyuan provincirl forcos.*
The londins of the Jo panese navel forces rt Tsingtao
on Dccomber 3, an action ostunsibly t: ken as a local
mecsure for the protection of J. nesc businuss intorests,
wos in fact  demonstr tion of Joy nese forcc with res-
poct to Chin in oner l.*
The occasion for the lond-
ing of the Jopanese nove1 contingent wrs allogedly the
unrest mong the Chinese cm loyoes in the Jeponese-cwned
cotton mills of Tsingt o.  protest cg inst the Jeponose
rction wos issucd by the Chinese Government, nd the Jan-
nese Government  de certrin demonds on the Meyor of
Tsingtro. The incident wrs clos d on Decuaber 1l with
the accept nee by the Mryor of Tsingteo of the Japonese
dem nds for  settlement of the dis ute. The following
st tenont was mrdo in  press interviuw by the Jrpnose
r Minister on Decomber 8, i.c., before the sottlement
of
丰
Embcssy's despr tch No. 2190, Dcccmbcr 17, 1936.
**
Embrssy's Monthly Report, Nove.iber, 1so6, Scction II(c).
**
Emb-ssy's duspctch No. 2190, Docebcr 17, 1936.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
of the Tsingtao incident: "......the sword of Japan,
which is drawn only to fight the powerful and rescue
the weak, may have to be unsheathed, much as we dislike
doing it."
The situation caused by the detention at Sian of
General Chiang Kai-shek by Chang Hsueh-liang on Decem-
ber 12 was to all outward appearances viewed by the Jap-
anese in a spirit of laissez-faire, although apprehension
wes expressed by the newspapers over the Young Mershal's
reported demand for the admission of Chinese communists
into the ranks of the Nanking Government. While Japan-
ese official statcments expressed sympathy for Chiang
Kai-shek, especially in view of the Japanese Govern-
ment's alleged desire for a united and penceful China,
it was obvious that Japan rejoiced over the incident as
an added argument in favor of the Jepanese-German pact
against communism.*
NE
(b) Great Britain.
The strained relations between Great Britain and
741.9
Japan showed no change during the month. As previously
reported, the conclusion of the German-Japanesc enti-
Comintern agreement increased the alreedy existing ten-
sion bctwecn tho two countries. No solution of the
Keclung incident took place, the British Government re-
maining adamant in its stand and the Japanese Government
apparently considering itself uneble to accede to the
British reprosentations for fear of losing face.
(c)
Embassy's despatch No. 2190, December 17, 1936.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.95)
-7-
(c) Gcrrrny.
WE
Mr. Arit., thc Ministor for Foreign Affrirs, went
to grert pains in public nnouncemcnts during thc month
to attompt to provo th t tho Jp nese-Gormin nti-Comintorn
groomont ws not :n cffort to linc up thc Foscist coun-
tries into n nti-Sovict bloc.
(d) It ly.
On Doccmber 1 the ": nchukuo n" Forcign Offico
745.94
nnounccd th t in rosponse to : rcqucst  ddressed to it
on ovember 20 by tho It li n mboss dor to Jrpin the
Governa nt of " nchukuo" h'd on Decober 1 iven uthor-
iz-tio for th. cst blishm nt of n It li n Consul-to
Goner 1 t Mukden. The Jp nese Forein Office issued
the follovine communiqué on Decciber 2: "The J peneso
Government hes notifi d the Italian Governient that it
is prepared to close the Luration in Abyssinia and es-
tablish in its stcad a Co n lato at Addis Ababa.
"The It lien covern ont hos a rued to res  ct the
com :ercial and oth r inter sts of Je en in Abyssinia and
ive es  ciclly favorebl co sidcration to thosc in-
torests.
In pursuanc, of its w ll-klown subterfue of dis-
claiming responsibility for any actions taken by the
Government of " anchukuo", the Japanese Government stated
throuch the s okesman of the Forein office on December 2
that "an a recient is said to heve been concluded bctwcon
the Italian Goverinment and the 'lanchukuo' Government
conccrning tho csteblishment of an Itelian Consulate
Gencrel

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
General at Mukden, but this has nothing to do with the
WE
setting up of our Consulate in Abyssinia".
The action of the Japnese Government in avowing
that the estsblishment by Italy of & Consulate General
in Mukden had no connection with the closing of the Jap-
anese Legation in Addis Ababa wes a logical sequence of
widespread criticism both in Janan und abroad to the ef-
fect that Japan's agreement with Gernany was only the
beginning of a new ali nment of fascist powers and that
the agreement with It:ly wes the second step in this
proeram.*
(e) Belgium.
According to a Domei report of December 7, the
Jupanese Aibesscdor to Beleium officiclly reported to the
Forein Offico th..t on thot dey the Belgian Government
had issued a decree est blishing an im ort quota on
Japunese cotton cloth imports.
(f) Australie.
The trade dis ute between Japan nd Australic, which
hed its inception in  y 1936,** was settled on December 26
by an exchongc of notes be tmeen Sir Henry Gullet end the
Jorunese Consul Gen-r1 at Syaney, Hr. Kuramatsu Murci.
In accordance with the terms of the agreement reach-
ed, from Jonu ry 1, 193-, until June 30, 1938, Japan wil1
permit thc importation of not less than oo,coc bcles of
Aus tralian
Embessy's telegrom No. 251, December 4, 1936, and
Eabrssy's despctch No. 175, December 5, 1936.
* *
Embassy's despttch No. 1861, May 28, 1936.

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Australian wool and Australia will permit the importa-
tion of 76,875,000 square yards of cotton piece goods and
likewise of rayon piece goods.*
EE
() Soviet Russia.
761.94
The Soviet-Japanese situation remained greatly ag-
gravated until the latter part of the month in consequence
of the refusal by the USSR on November 20 to sign the
new Fisheries Treaty, an act taken in retaliation against
the conclusion of the Japanese-German anti-Comintern agree-
ment.** On December 2l, however, representatives of the
two Governments agreed to the extension for one year or
until December 31, 1937, of the 1928 Fisheries Treaty.***
This agreement, which was finally signed in Moscow on
December 28, relieved the immediate tension between the
two countries. Nevertheless, there remained unsettled
the question of a new and more lasting fisheries treaty
and the problem of establisning mutually acceptable border
commissions. Furthermore, the Sovict Union remained con-
vinced that the pact between Japan and Germany against the
Communist Internationale was designed as a direct threat
against the security of Soviet Russia, despite repeated
Japanese denials. And prominent Soviet officials pro-
fessed the belief that Japan had instigated both the
Suiyuan hostilities and the Sian uprising in China.
Thus
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2169, December 4, 1936, and
Embassy's despatch No. 2207, December 30, 1936.
**
Embassy's Monthly Report for November 1936,Section II(o)
and Despatch No. 2188, December 16, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 2203, December 30, 1936.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 1.00)
-10-
EE
Thus, an atmosphere of suspicion coupled with an
apparent willingness to temporize on problems of an im-
mediately dangerous nature continued to characterize
Soviet-Japanese relations.
(h) Poland.
The Japanese press reported that the Japanese
Minister in Warsaw and the Polish Foreign Office were
negotiating for the conclusion of a Japanese-Polish
Cultural Agreement whereby students would be exchanged
between the two countries.* Such an agreement, if
concluded, would appear to have political significance
in view of the recent agreement by Japan and Poland
to raise their respective Legations to Embassies and
of Poland's geographical position in consideration of
the Japanese-German anti-Comintern agreement.
LA
(i) Brazil.
Further progress in the development of Japanese-
Brazilian trade relations was reported as a result of
the visit to Japan in September and October 1936 of the
Brazilian Economic Mission. Proposals were said to have
been reccived from Rio de Janeiro by the Jepan-Brazil
Enterprise Council in Tokyo** for the investment of
Japanese capital in cement and oil enterprises, for the
sale of a spinning mill in Brazil, and for the establish-
ment of a barter agreement by which Japanese cement, galvan-
ized
Embassy's despatch No. 2189, December 17, 1936.
**
Monthly Report for November, 1936, Section II (f).

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.97)
-11-
LA
ized iron sheets, iron wire and nails would be exchanged
for Brazilian hides, leather, bone mecl, tobacco, end wool
According to thc HOCHI of December 9, Mitsui and Mitsu-
bishi were negotiating with the Province of Bahia through
the Japan-Brazil Enterprisc Council for thc sale to that
Province of rails to thc velue of nearly Y4,O00,000. In
addition, the Japen-Brazil Enterprise Council wcs said to
be arranging for the scle by Japanese firms to the Munici-
pality of Rio de Janeiro of water mains and other heavy
industriel products.
(J) Paraguay.
The Japanese Foreign Office announced on December 11
that a decree had been issued by the Fresident of Fara-
guay on December 5 permitting the entry of Japanese agri-
cultural immigrants at the rate of 200 families a year
for the next five years in return for the annual purchase
by Japan of Paraguayan products valued at 250,000 gold
pesos.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) The Cabinet.
112
The Hirota Cabinet met with severe criticisn at the
994.
hands of the political parties and the newspapers, part-
ly on domestic issues but principally on the grounds that
the Sino-Japanese negotiations had failed; that the nego-
tiations for the anti-Comintern pact with Germany had been
conducted with too much secrecy; that the pact itself had
been received with disfavor abroad, probably because the
Government had failed to explain its "true nature" proper-
ly; that Mr. Arita's disclosure of the conclusion of the
anti-

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
anti-Comintern agreemeit to the Soviet Ambassador had
been premature and had caused the USSR to delay the sign-
ing of the revised Fisheries Treaty; end thet the Govern-
ment had made no progress in its negotiations with the
Soviet Union over the proposed border commissions.*
How-
ever, there was little or no criticism of the nature of
the agreement with Germany end none vhatsoever of the
Japanese military for havin forced the Cabinet to at-
tempt to legclize the Army's actions in North China through
the issuance of demands for an agrcement which the Nanking
Government could not be expected to sanction.
A temporary respite from criticism wcs afforded the
Cabinet by Chang Hsueh-liang's attempted coup at Sian.
The Government could argue that the Sien rebellion had
been due to comnunist instigation and hencc justified
Jepa n's agreement with Geraany and thet nogotiations with
China could ot be continu d so lon as the disturbed
political conditions preveiled in that country.
However,
criticism of the Hirote Government was resumcd with force
in the latter half of Dece ber and it ap: cared at the
close of the month that the Cabinet might have to face
orgenized opposition fron the political parti s, the
Housc of Peers, the rress, and other quartors, especially
during the forthcoming session of the
Dict. Not only
the Shakai Taishuto, thc minority party which has criti-
cized the Governmont consistontly, but also the two prin-
cipal political prtics (thc Minseito and the Sciyukai)
were reportedly dctermined to criticize the Government
on both foreign and doncstic issues.
(b)
* Enbassy's dcspatch No. 2187 of Decumbcr 16, 1936.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
(b) The Army.
In accordance with the conpromise arrangement ar-
894.20
rived at by Fremier Hirota in the controversy between
the Diet System Investigation Comnission and the War
Minister over the latter's appearance before the Co..-
mission, Ge eral Terauchi had an infor.rl discussion
with members of the Comnission at the Fremier's Official
Residence on Dece.:ber ? to explain the Army's ideas on
Diet reform.*
He esserted that the plan for drastic
reform of the Diet reported by the press in rovember as
having emanatea from a section of Army officers had no
connection with the ar Office. The following statement
node at this gathering would indice te, however, thet the
"er Minister felt it necessary to ap. ease the "section
of Ary officers' concerned:
The work of the Diet system
in this country should always renein alon t.e lines of
the Im erial Constitution.
e nust see to it that our
Diet is not run on the basis of the democratic ideas
which were borrowed from the est and may cause
a mis-
conception of the nature of the Diet system in the Empire".
During the month the ar Minister again was reported
to be concerned over the slowness of the Cabinet in effect-
ing administrative reforns and the stabilization of the
livelihood of the people.
Higher
Embassy's despatch No. 2163, November 26, 1936.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
Higher officials of the Jar Ministry held two con-
ferences with Diet members to explain the nature of the
Army's budget demands. At the second of these meetings
on December 23 the ar Minister denied that the Army
was responsible for the high tax revenue provided in the
l937-38 national budget and that the Cabinet had been
compelled to form the budget in a wey to satisfy the Army.
In addition, the Vice Minister for War, General Umezu,
was quoted by Domei with the following statement: "I
think our defense ex,enditures should be met by both
bonds and taxation but the  rmy has nothing to do with
the effect of increased toxation on industry and economy.
The Army cannot concern itself with such technicel questions".
Apparently neither the
ar Minister nor the Vice Minister
for War made eny effort to explain their assertions that
the necessity for the pro osed increase in taxation was
not dictated by tie large budgetary demands of the Army.
(c) The Diet.
The Diet System Investi etion Commission was re-
894.132
ported to heve decided on November 22 to recom rend to
the Cabinet that the Diet be convened in te middle part
of November instead of in December.
Also, on Deceaber 23
the Cabinet approved the Diet System Investigation Com-
mission's dreft of a bill, to be presented at the forth-
coming session of the Diet, providing that the Diet shall
have twenty-five days for the exanination of the budget
instead of twenty-one days as heretofore.
It

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
It has already been mentioned that the major political
parties were considerins a course of opposition ageinst the
Government in the Diet session.* On December 16 the
Seiyukai approved a resolution demanding that the politi-
cal parties be allowed ore freedom of speech in the Diet
session. It vill be r-called that during the May 1-May 27
speciel session of the Diet in l936 the political parties
were unusually frank in their criticism of both the Army
and the Governient.**
It seems prob.le that criticism
of the Army and of the Government will be just as strong
as if not stronger than it was auring the session above-
mentioned.
IV.
CORSE OF LEOISL TION.
The newspa ers stated that the Government would
presert more than l50 bills in the forthcoming Diet session.
Anong these pr  jects of law th followin are vorthy of
note: a bill for the restriction by the Governaent of
exports and imports; a bill for the establishnent of a
huge corl liquefaction con a.y; a bill for an inereese in
the import duty on sasoline or five son a allon and in
the consumption tax on casollne of five sen a allon; a
bill provid n
for the sis unsion of import dutius on pig
iron for a period of two years; a bill ustablishing a
monopoly syste.. for the nanufect re of alcohol; three
social bills, including one for the protection of
mothers cnd children, another for the promotion of
the nationel health,
and e third for the revision
of the law coicernin tuberculosis prevention;
bill for the revision of the tex system;
a bill for
the
Section III (a) of thc :reseit Report.
**
Eabassy's dospatchcs No. 1830, May 14, 1936, and
No. 189, ay 29, 1936.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
-16-
alteration of customs tariffs; a bill for the establish-
ment of a double tariff system;* a bill providing for the
extension of financiel aid to the masses; end a bill pro-
viding for a reduction of the debts of the agricultural
communities.
V. GOVERNTET FINANCE.
It was reported that the bankers and clearing houses
of Tokyo, Osake, and Nagoye, and also the Seiyukai politi-
cal party, were strongly opposed to the Government's pro-
posed tax reform. Despite such opposition it is unlikely
that a substential increase in taxes will be avoided since
the in rease is inperative by virtue of the large budgetary
demands of the defense services. **
VI. GENER L ELOFC IC A. D FIHA CIAL COL DITIOFS.
(a) Foreign Trade.
Japanese ex orts in December amounted to ¥296,817,000
hile imports vere V28.,516,000 as compered with November
exports of ¥236,877,c00 and imports of ¥218,015,000. ***
(b) Financial Trends.
The stock  arket was active; the easy money market
continued; the note issue of the Tank of Japan increased
considerably as colmpared with the month of November;
commodity prices increased; the prices of agricultural
products appr ciated; and the average yen rate was
0.28552 as compared with 0.28550 for Hovember.
VII
Embassy's Monthly Report for November,19j6, Section VI(a).
☆*
Embassy's despatch No. 2209, January 1, 1937.
***
Data and information furnished by the Comlercial
Attaché's office.

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-
VII. ACTIVITIES OF ALERICAN COM ERCIL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FORLIGN COLEERCI/L IITERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.LABOR AID MIGRATION.
(a) Lebor.
According to Domei of Decenber 28, on the dey be-
fore a contract was signed by the Japen Shipowners'
Association nd the New Seamen's Union for the establish-
ment of a new system of retirement end discharge allow-
ances which will affect l00,000 seamen and will provide
for the payment of double the amount of allovances now
required by lew.
(b) Emigration.
It was reported that the Overseas Ministry and the
shippin and emigration conpanies were mcking consider-
able alterations in thcir plans for sending enigrants
to Brazil in order to meet the situt tion created by the
amendient on Deceiber 8 of the Brazilian immigration law
which, it is said, will yermit the entry into Brazil
of 100,000 Jepenese immigrants during the year 1937.
X. MISCELLTECUS.
Nothing to report.
- - 0 - -

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHLS SENT TO THE LEFARTIENT
DURING DECEMBER, 1936
No.
Date
Subject
2165
Dec. 1
Retention of U.S.S. SEmES for Experimental
Furposes.
2136
Dec. 2
Proposed Visit of U.S.S. GOLD STAR to Japanese
Ports.
2167
Dec. 2
Letter of T..anks from Sponsors of Japanese
Fisheries Training Ship.
2168
Dec. 4
German-Ji ,anese Agreement.
2169
Dec. 4
Australian-Japanese Trade Relations.
2170
Dec. 3
Vacuum Cleaners.
2171
Dcc.
Request for Allowance for Messengers' Bicycle.
2172
Dec. 4
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2173
Dec. 4
Political Report for November.
2174
Dec. 4
Ambassador's Leave of Absence.
2175
Dec. 5
Italo-Japanese Accord.
2176
Dec. 4
Leave of Absence of Third Secretary Andrews.
2177
Dec. 8
Smucclin of Nercotics from Manchuria.
2178
Dec. 8
Books for the severtment.
2179
Dec. 10
Japanese Renly to Lansing Memoirs.
2180
Dec. 11
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2181
Dec. 14
Request for Book.
2182
Dec. 14
Diplomatic Visa Feoort.
2183
Dec. 15
Japan's Search fcr Oil.
2184
Dec. 15
Address Made by the Ambassador.
2185
Dec. 16
German-Japenese A reement.
2186
Dec. 16
Letter of Conratulations.
2187
Dec. 16
Present Position of the Cabinet in Janan.
2188
Dec. 16
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2189
Dec. 17
Polish-Japanese Relations.
2190
Dec. 17
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2191

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
2191
Dec. 18 Sealskins Apportioned to the American Government.
2192
Dec. 19 Acknowledgment for Publications and Bibliographies.
2193
Dec. 26 Diplomatic Visa Report.
2194
Dec. 28 American Oil Interests in Japan.
2195
Dec. 19 Unveiling of Townsend Harris Monument.
2196
Dec. 29
Books Returned to Library.
2197 Dec. 29
Seizure of Smoking Opium and Morphine
ex S. S. ASAMA MARU.
2198 Dec. 29
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES, 1922.
2199 Dec. 29
Letters Rogatory, the United States versus
John Semar Farnsworth.
2200 Dec. 29
Laying of Keels of U.S.S. STERETT and
U.S.S. ELIET.
2201
Dec. 29
Completion of the U.S.S. MAHAN.
2202
Dec. 30
Leaves of Absence.
2203
Dec. 30
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2204
Dec. 30
Cost of Living Allowance, U. A. Johnson.
2205
Dec. 30
Present Position of the Cabinet in Japan.
2206
Dec. 30
First Year Examination, John K. Emmerson.
2207
Dec. 30
Australian-Japanese Trade Dispute.
2208
Dec. 31
Sino-Japanese Relations, December 17 to 31, 1936.

=== Page 266 === (confidence 1.00)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING DECEMBER, 1936
No. Date
Subject
247
Dec. 1, 4 p. m.
Italo-Japanese Agreement.
248
Dec. 3, noon
Gun Caliber Question.
249
Dec. 3, 4 p. m.
Gun Caliber Question.
250
Dec. 3, 5 p. m.
Requisition for Funds.
251
Dec. 4, 1 p. m.
German-Japanese Agreement.
252
Dec. 5, 6 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Relations.
253
Dec. 7, 3 p. m.
Forwarding of Embassy Pouches.
254
Dec. 8, 6 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Difficulty at Tsingtao.
255
Dec. 9, 9 p. m.
Position of Hirota Cabinet.
256
Dec. 10, 9 a. m.
Receipt of Pouches.
257
Dec. 10, 4 p. m.
Departure of Mr. Ballantine.
258
Dec. 14, noon
Sino-Japanese Relations.
259
Dec. 14, 1 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japan.
260
Dec. 14, 4 p. m.
Sealskins Allotted to American
Government.
261
Dec. 17, 1l a. m. American Oil Interests in Japan.
262
Dec. 18, noon
Gun Caliber Question.
263
Dec. 19, noon
British Suggestion for Concerted
Action in Chinese Political Crisis.
264
Dec. 19, 6 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japan.
265
Dec. 22, 8 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japan.
266
Dec. 23, 7 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japan.
267
Dec. 23, 8 p. m.
International Naval Situation.
268
Dec. 24, 6 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japen.
269
Dec. 25, 1 p. m.
Report that Ambassador Grew Notified
Foreign Office of American Intention
to Retain 19,000 tons of Destroyers.
270 Dec. 28, 10 a. m.
Reported Expectation that Japanese
Ambassador Saito would Resign.
271 Dec. 28, 5 p. m.
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES,
1922.
272 Dec. 29, 5 p. m.
Letters Rogatory. J. S. Farnsworth.
273
Dec. 30, 3 p. m.
Receipt of Pouches.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.89)
256
MAR 19 1937
MAH 19 1937
FOREIGN
VEPRRTBENT OF STATE
OF THE
MUNITED STATES OF AMERICA
it
AMERICAN EMBASSY
9
DEPARIML
SUBJBOT:
REPORT ON CGNDITTONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF JANUARY, 1S
DIVISION OFNC
AM1 22
MAR 3 0 1937
SNOI
S
LATINAMERICMTAFFAIRS
0
DEPARMENT OFSTATE
RECE
19937 R 4
indicated
894.00SPR/110
EBe
894.009R
otayn
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.
The Honorablg
B
MAR 1 6 193A
The Secretary of State,
fou
Washington.
nm
03
sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 96 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
21
herewith the Babassy's monthly report on conditions
in Japan for the month of Jamuary, 1937.
APR1/1
Respectrylly yours,
FILED
1369
QDAse/m
Joseph C. Grew
Buelosure:
1/ meport No. 124
Copy to Bmbassy, Peiping
Shanghai

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.98)
NO. 124
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF JANUARY, 1937.

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). American Oil Interests.
Early in January the Standard and Shell gasoline quotas
for Korea for the first half of 1937 were considerably
894.6363
reduced.* and on January 9 Mr. Dickover, First Secretary
of the Embassy, made an oral and informal approach to Mr.
Matsushima, Chief of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs of
the Foreign Office, on this matter, calling to his atten-
tion the general representations made on December 4 with
regard to American oil interests in Japan,** reciting briefly
the facts of the Korean situation, and stating that these
developments were very disheartening to the American oil
interests. Sir George Sansom, the Commercial Counselor of
the British Embassy,also approached Mr. Matsushima informally
with regard to the Korean quotas.***
Replying to the Embassy's formal representations of
December 24, the Japanese Foreign Office on January 15
delivered a note verbale to the Embassy in which it was
stated that the Japanese Government had no intention of
discriminating between the business operations of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company and those of any other oil
companies, that the Japanese Government had no thought
whatever of driving the American oil interests out of
Japan, and that the Japanese Ministry of Commerce and
Industry had intended a certain letter to be a confirmation
of the four-point oral assurances given to the representa-
tives of the American and British oil interests on Sep-
tember 19, 1936, by Mr. Yoshino, then Vice Minister for
Commerce and Industry.**** At about the same time the
British Embassy received a similar reply to its representa-
tions of December 24. These replies were considered by
both
Embassy's telegram No. 3, January 8, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegrams No. 264 of December 19, 1936, and
No. 268 of December 24, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 2233 of January 29, 1937..
****
Embassy's telegram No. 6 of January 15, 1937.

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
both the American and British Embassies to be satisfactory.
On the other hand, the Japanese Government's replies to the
points regarding kerosene quotas and the proposed revised
tariff were not so satisfactory as the general assurances
mentioned above.
(b). Visit to Japan of the American Textile Mission.
An unofficial American Textile Mission, headed by Dr.
Claudius T. Murchison, President of the Cotton Textile
Institute, visited Japan from January 8 to January 28. On
January 22 a mutually satisfactory agreement was signed by
the Mission and by Japanese cotton textile interests.*
This agreement establishes a quota for l937 for cotton piece
goods or piece goods of which the principal material is
cotton of 155 million square yards for shipment to the
United States or else of the volume of contracts for such
shipments on hand on January 21, 1937, depending on which
amount is smaller, and a quota for 1938 of 100 million.
square yards with the proviso that 25% of this amount may
be added to the 1937 quota and deducted from the 1938 quota.
The 1937 quota is based on the approximate amount of un-
filled orders for shipment to the United States in the hands
of Japanese mills on January 2l. A decidedly favorable im-
pression was created by the visit of the American Textile
Mission, which was due in large measure to the charactor
and personality of the American business men who composed
the Mission.**
(c). Difficulties Encountered by American Consular
Officers in Procuring Commercial Information
In Japan.
In an interview with Mr. Matsushima, Chief of the
Bureau of Commercial Affairs of the Foreign Office, on
January 15, Mr. Dickover, First Secretary of the Embassy,
explained
Imbassy's telegram No. 27 of January 25, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2235 of January 29, 1937.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.95)
- 3 -
explained the Department's views concerning the difriculties
sometimes experienced by American consular ofricers in
Japan in obtaining ordinary commercial information.* In
brief, Mr. Dickover stated that the American Government must
reserve the right for its consular officers in Japan to
endeavor to obtain through all lawful and appropriate
sources information distinctly not of a military character,
even though the Embassy might find it desirable from time
to time to avail itself of Mr. Matsushima's offer of the
special services of one of his Bureau's secretaries for
the collection and preparation. of commercial information.**
(d). Proposed Japanese Economic Mission to the
United States.
It was reported during the month that the Japan Economic
Federation had decided to send an economic mission to the
United States in the spring of 1937 to return the visit of
the unofficial American Economic Mission which came to Japan
in April, 1935, under the chairmanship of Mr. W. Cameron
Forbes.***
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a). China.
77
According to press reports, the Japanese Government has
decided to resume the negotiations with the Chinese Govern-
ment which had been broken off during the early part of
December.****
Apparently, little was known concerning the
basis on which the negotiations would be resumed. However,
there was some discussion of a "re-orientation" of Japan's
policy toward China based on economic lines. For example,
Mr. Toyotaro Yuki, then newly appointed President of the
Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry, reportedly stated on
January
*
Department's instruction No. 1147 of November 25, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2223 of January 21, 1937.
*丰*
Embassy's despatch No. 1277 of May 3, 1935.
Embassy's despatch No. 2190 of December 17, 1936.

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
January 17 that a readjustment of Sino-Japanese relations
must be made from the angle of economic relations. In
this connection it was reported that plans were being made
to despatch an economic mission to China to return the visit
to Japan of the Chinese Economic Mission in the autumn of
1935. Mr. Kenji Kodama, former President of the Yokohama
Specie Bank, was mentioned as the probable head of this
Mission and also as Japan's "special economic ambassador"
to China.
(b). Soviet Russia.
EE
Criticism of Mr. Arita's policy toward Soviet Russia
761.94
continued during the month and was not abated by Mr. Arita's
public statements in explanation.* In a New Year's message
he stated that Japan's position as the stabilizing factor
in the Far East had been enhanced as the result of the
anti-Comintern agreement with Germany and that Japan desired
to pursue friendly relations with the Soviet Union. Mr.
Arita made two similar pronouncements, the first in a radio
broadcast on January 8 and the second in his speech before
the Diet on January 2l. None of these statements satisfied
the popular demand for a clarification of Japan's Soviet
policy.**
It was reported that Mr. Yureneff, the Soviet Ambassador
to Japan, would probably resign on account of his failure
to learn of the anti-Comintern agreement sooner than he did.
Mutual suspicion was increased by two developments
during the month, one being the detention at Vladivostok
of the Japanese steamship SIBERIA MARU on a suspicion of
espionage, the other being the accusation brought out in
the trial in Moscow of Radek and sixteen other alleged
conspirators against the Soviet Government to the effect
that Japan had organized train wrecks in Soviet Russia and
was connected with the "Trotsky Center".
(c).
Embassy's despatch No. 2219 of January 16, 1937.
Embassy's despatch No. 2237 of February 1, 1937.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
(c). Great Britain.
There was no amelioration in the strained relations
between Japan and Great Britain.*
Apprehension was expressed by Japanese newspapers over
the reported movement in Great Britain, Australia, New
Zealand, and other British territories toward the banning
of Japanese shipping from British inter-port routes.
WE
Newspaper reports stated that, in addition to the
economic missions to be sent to the United States and
China, the Japan Economic Federation planned to send an
economic mission to Great Britain to return the visit of
the Barnby Mission to this country in September and Oct-
ober 1934.**
(a). Chile.
LA
The newspapers reported that the Chilean Government
had decided to send an economic mission to Japan which
would leave Chile for this country in April of this year
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Diet.
The much-heralded campaign of opposition against the
Government on the part of the political parties*** took
shape with the re-convening of the Diet on January 2l. In
an interpellation in the House of Representatives, Mr.
Kunimatsu Hamada of the Seiyukai, a former Speaker of the
Lower House, violently attacked the Hirota Cabinet and also
the military for their interference in politics.****
General Terauchi, the Minister for War, replied to Mr.
Hamada
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2239 of February 1, 1937;
Department's telegram No. 9 of January 16; Embassy's
telegram No. 8 of January 18; Embassy's telegram No.
14 of January 22; Embassy's telegram No. 26 of January 25.
Embassy's despatch No. l040 of November 2, 1934.
Embassy's Monthly Report for December, Section III (c).
Embassy's telegrmm No. 13 of January 22, 1937.

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.97)
Hamada in an inept and clumsy fashion, the session ending
in confusion and disorder.* Owing to the antagonism between
the Government and the political parties (especially between
the Army and the parties) the Diet was prorogued for two
days and on January 23 the Cabinet resigned,** teportedly
because of the Army's demand that either the Diet be dis-
solved or the Cabinet resign. Upon the Cabinet's deciding
against dissolution, the Minister for War tendered his
resignation, thus causing the fall of the Cabinet.
(b). The Cabinet.
After the resignation of the Hirota Cabinet, the
Emperor on January 24 requested General Kazunari Ugaki,
the well-known liberal, to form a Cabinet.*** Ostensibly
on the ground that the Army would not be capable of en-
forcing discipline with an Ugaki Cabinet in power, the
Army refused to furnish a War Minister for the proposed
Cabinet and therefore on January 29 General Ugaki reported
to the Emperor that he was unable to form a Government.
There was a strong undercurrent of criticism among the
people of the Army's obstruction of General Ugaki, who
undoubtedly was the nation's choice as Premier. According
to the press, Baron Hiranuma, reported to have fascist ten-
dencies, was asked to form a Cabinet but stated that he
was unable to accept the responsibility of the Premiership.
On January 29 General Senjuro Hayashi, retired, War Minister
in the Okada Cabinet until his resignation on September 4,
1935, was selected to form a Cabinet, which task it was
believed would not be difficult in view of the Army's support
of the Premier-designate.****
(c).
*
Embassy's despatch No. 224l of February 1, 1937.
Embassy's telegram No. 21 of January 23, 1937.
丰丰拿
Embassy's telegram No. 22 of January 24, 1937.
Embassy's telegram No. 34 of January 30, 1937.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
(c). The Army.
Although the Army met with several rebuffs during
894.20
January, there was no indication at the end of the month
that the Army's predominant position in the political
affairs of the country had been lessened thereby.* In
fact, the Army seemed to have gained a victory in the seleo-
tion by the Emperor of General Hayashi for Premier .** On
the other hand, it appeared that Hayashi had been chosen to
form a Government because it was thought that he would be
able to control the Army and through moderate policies to
minimize friction between the Army and the Government.
Immediately after tendering his resignation as War
Minister on January 23, General Terauchi told the press that
he had taken this step because the views of the political
parties were found to be fundamentally at variance with those
held by the Army, denying the allegation that Mr. Hamada's
speech in the House of Representatives had been the cause for
his resigning. General Terauchi reportedly added that the
domestic and international situation confronting Japan was
too grave to be tided over by any sort of temporizing com-
promise between the political parties and the Army.
The Army issued one of its regular pamphlets on January 27
entitled "The Armies of the Empire and Other Powers". After
the usual preamble in support of the continuing necessity
for increased military expenditures, the pamphlet goes on
to state that the Soviet Union is manifesting a provocative
attitude toward Japan, that anti-Japanese and anti-Manchu-
kuo" policies and the policy of playing off one foreign
Power against another remain as China's guiding principles,
that Great Britain is extending its influence over China
and interfering in Japan's policy in East Asia, and that the
United States
* Embassy's despatch No. 2241 of February 1, 1937.
** Embassy's telegram No. 34 of January 30, 1937.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
United States is desirous of "controlling the Pacific",
advanoing on the China market, strengthening its naval
power and its Pacific fortifications, and expanding its
overseas market to keep pace with its economic revival.
(a). The Navy.
Admiral Nagano, the Navy Minister, was reported to have
attempted to mediate between the Army and the political
parties after their clash in the Diet on January 2l. His
efforts met with no success and his visits to the presidents
of the Seiyukai and the Minseito were said to have caused
indignation in the Army.
(e). Political Parties.
Toward the close of the month a movement was reported
to be under way for the formation of a new political party
of a reactionary character, the object of which would be a
recognition of the Army's existing strength in politics and
a uniting of the Army with political bodies. According to
newspaper reports, this movement had its incentive in the
desire of General Tatekawa, retired, to bring about a
grouping of military and other patriotic socicties and was
supported by several prominent men, including Prince Konoe,
Yonezo Maeda and Chikuhei Nakajima of the Seiyukai, Keikichi
Tanomogi of the Minseito, Tetsunosuke Yamazaki of the Showakai,
and Count Hideo Kodama, a member of the House of Peers.
(f). Reactionaries.
According to Domei, on January 23 executive members
of the Current Situation Council, an organization composed
of representatives of the Japan Production Party and other
rightist groups, addressed a communication to General Tera-
uchi expressing gratitude for his endeavors in the political
crisis and also a communication to Admiral Nagano suggest-
ing that he resign from the position of Navy Minister because
cf his failure to cooperate with the Army.
(g).

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
(g). Communists.
Lifting a press ban, the Government announced on
January ll that twenty-five members of a communist-anarchist
organization had been indicted for having plotted terrorist
uprisings in agricultural districts of Japan during the
summer of 1935.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
EA
The financial situation in Japan during January was
894.51
less favorable than it had been for a number of years.*
However, conditions have not as yet become serious and the
prevailing opinion seemed to be that the Government would
be able to avoid a dangerous crisis for some months and
perhaps through the year l937.** There were the following
favorable factors; the national debt, although on the rise,
did not appear to be excessive fornation of the size and
power of Japan; money rates were easy; there was little
or no currency inflation; and the unfavorable visible
foreign trade balance for l936 was partly offset by a
favorable invisible trade balance.
On the other hand, there were unfavorable factors,
principally the unbalanced budget and the consequent large
issues of "deficit bonds" necessary in 1937. The weakness
of the yen and apprehension of the further pressure which
would result from large speculative imports expected in
anticipation of the proposed increased tariff rates were
the causes of the foreign exchange control regulations
announced by the Government and put into force on January 8.
The adverse factors in Japan's financial position were due
in great measure to the unusually heavy governmental ex-
penditures, principally military.
Strong
Embassy's telegram No. 5 of January 13, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2209 of January 1, 1937.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10 -
Strong opposition to the Cabinet's financial polioy,
principally to the proposed tax reform, continued to be
expressed. In fact, the widespread dissatisfaction over
the Government's financial policy formed an important part
of the strong opposition to the Government which brought
about the Hirota Cabinet's downfall toward the close of the
month.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a). Foreign Trade.
Exports from Japan in January amounted to ¥200,304,000
and imports into this country were ¥304,126,000, as compared
with December exports of ¥296,817,000 and imports of ¥284,
515,O00. This represented an unfavorable balance of trade
of ¥l03,822,000, as compared with an unfavorable balance for
December of only ¥12,302,000.
(b). Financial Trends.
The outstanding feature of the month was the sharp rise
Amace
in commodity prices, the Bank of Japan's wholesale price
index number for January being 233.3 as against 214.9 for
December l936. .Bond and stock prices appreciated. In the
latter part of the month the activity of the stock market
decreased owing to the Cabinet crisis. The average yen rate
of the Yokohama Specie Bank was 0.28625 as compared with
0.28552 for December. It should be noted that the main-
tenance of the yen at a slightly higher level during January
was due to the fact that the exchange was artifioinlly
bolstered by the Yokohama Specie Bank and that strict
exchange control was enforced.
(c). Industries.
The JAPAN TIMES of January 9 reported that for the year
1936 Japan had led the world in the production of rayon yarn,
with an output of 275,500,000 pounds as compared with the
United States output of 270,000,000 pounds.
(a).

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.97)
-11 -
(a). Shipping.
It was reported on January 5 that an agreement had been
reached on December 31, l936, between the Osaka Shosen Kaisha
(Osaka Mercantile Steamship Company) and the Kokusai Kisen
Kaisha (International Steamship Company) by virtue of which
the Osaka Shosen Kaisha will have the complete management
Cmmern
of the other steamship company. The amalgamation of the
two companies was expected to cause serious competition
with the Nippon Yusen Kaisha (Japan Mail Steamship Company).
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
The JAPAN CHRONICLE of January 20 reported that 30,O00
employees of the Yawata Iron Works, of the Nippon Iron Com-
pany, had demanded that their employers grant them special
allowances or else an increase in wages in view of the rise
of commodity prices.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 1.00)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING JANUARY, 1937.
No.
Date
Subject
2209
Jan. 1
General Situation Facing Japan at the
Opening of the Year 1937.
2210
Jan. 6
Leaves of Absence.
2211
Jan. 7
Translators' Salaries.
2212
Jan. 9
Mr. Chuichi Ohashi.
2213
Jan. 9
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2214
Jan. 9
Address Made by the Ambassador.
2215
Jan. 9
Report on Codes.
2216
Jan. 12
Office Organization and Administration.
2217
Jan. 16
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2218
Jan. 16
Bond of Mr. Farish.
2219
Jan. 16
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2220
Jan. 19
Public Criticism of Japan's Foreign Policy.
2221
Jan. 21
Monthly Political Report for December, 1936.
2222
Jan. 21
Apportionment of Sealskins.
2223
Jan. 21
Difficulty in Obtaining Commercial Information.
2224
Jan. 22
Completion of U. S. S. FLUSSER.
2225
Jan. 22
Laying of Keels of U.S.S. HELENA and ST. LOUIS.
2226
Jan. 25
Documents Concerning Suwabe.
2227
Jan. 25 Diplomatic Visa Report.
2228
Jan. 25 Quarterly Report on Combined Quarters.
2229
Jan. 26
Sick Leave of Miss Gardiner.
2230
Jan. 25
Fifth Quarter Examination of Mr. Warner.
2231
Jan. 27
Sick Leave of Mr. Andrews.
2232
Jan. 28
Date of Mr. Farish's Arrival.
2233
Jan. 29
American Oil Interests in Japan.
2234
Jan. 29
Repairs to Refrigerators.
2235
Jan. 30
Visit to Japan of the American Cotton Mission.
2236
Jan. 30
Diplomatic Visa Report.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING JANUARY, 1937.
No.
Date
Subject
1
Jan. 6, 1 p. m.
Requisition for Funds.
2
Jan. 7, 4 p. m.
Proposed Visit to Japan of U.S.S.
AUGUSTA.
3
Jan. 8, 7 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Korea.
4.
Jan. 11, 1 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japan.
5
Jan. 13, noon.
Financial Situation in Japan.
6
Jan. 15, 6 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japan.
7
Jan. 18, 11 a. m.
From Commercial Attaché to Commerce.
8
Jan. 18, 6 p. m.
Naval Gun Caliber Question.
9
Jan. 18, 7 p. m.
Financial Situation in Japan.
10
Jan. 20, 6 p. m.
Financial Situation in Japan.
11
Jan. 22, 11 a. m.
Cotton Textile Exports Agreement.
12
Jan. 22, noon.
Visit of President Quezon to Japan.
13
Jan. 22, 6 p. m.
Parliamentary Crisis.
14
Jan. 22, 11 p. m.
British Representations on Naval
Gun Caliber Question.
15
Jan. 22, midnight
Smuggling in China.
16
Jan. 23, 1 a. m.
Parliamentary Crisis.
17
Jan. 23, 2 p. m.
Financial Situation in Japan.
18
Jan. 23, 3 p. m.
Receipt of Cipher Tables.
19
Jan. 23, 4 p. m.
Receipt pf Pouches.
20
Jan. 23, 5 p. m.
Smuggling in North China.
21
Jan. 23, 6 p. m.
Resignation of Hirota Cabinet.
22
Jan. 24, 11 p. m.
Attempted Formation of Cabinet.
23
Jan. 25, 1 p. m.
Departure of Mr. Murchison.
24
Jan. 25, 3 p. m.
Mr. Crocker's Simple Leave.
25
Jan. 25, 4 p. m.
Attempted Formation of Cabinet.
26
Jan. 25, 5 p. m.
Naval Gun Caliber Question.
27
Jan. 25, 6 p. m.
Cotton Textile Exports Agreement.
28
Jan. 26, 5 p. m.
Visit to Japan of President Quezon.
29
Jan. 26, 11 p. m.
Attempted Formation of Cabinet.
30
Jan. 27, 6 p. m.
Attempted Formation of Cabinet.
31

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No. Date
Subject
31
Jan. 28, 7 p. m.
Visit of President Quezon to Japan.
32
Jan. 29, 1 p. m.
Pouch Service.
33
Jan. 29, 5 p. m.
Failure of Ugaki to Form a Cabinet.
34
Jan. 30, 5 p. m.
Proposed Hayashi Cabinet.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SENVICE
APR 16 1937
OF THE
T.GD
UNITED STATESO
4,9,15,
EASTERN
1937 APR € PM 1 45
APR 16 1937
AMERICAN EMBASS
Tokyo, March 17, 1937
DIVIS T OF
2,15,
COMMUL
ONS
SUBJECT:
REPORY ON CONDITPONBINDAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY, 1937.
LEGAX ADVISER
894.0:PR
APR
21 1937
AC/C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECORDING DESK
eni - pis
FILE R
Croy in FE
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDMLI.D.
894.00 PR/
4
BE OF EDONONNG ADVISER
File
APR 17 1937
Ese
EPARTMENT OF STATE
smc
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions
in Japan for the month of February, 1937.
Respectfully yours
1 copyrel
GDA:c/m
Joseph C. Grew
800
Enclosure:
1/ Report No. 125
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Imbassy, Moscow
Consulate General, Osaka
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate General, Mukden
FILHD
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Dairen
In quintuplioate to the Department
A &81 197

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
NO. 125
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY, 1937.

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS :ITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a)
Premier Hayashi's Reference to American-
Japanese Reletions in Diet Speech.
1
(b)
Reaction in Japan to the American Nevel
Building Procram..
1, 2
(c)
Final Ratificction by Japanese end Americen
Interests of the Cotton Textile Agrecment. 2
(a)
Forthcoming Visit to the United States of
an Unofficial Economic Mission.
2,3
(e)
American Government's Attitude toward
Smuggling in North Chine.
3
(f)
Visit to Japan of President Quezon........ 3, 4
(e)
American and Japenesc Interest in the
Open Door in the Congo Basin.
 4, 5
II.
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a)
China.
5,6
(b)
Soviet Russia.
6,7
(c)
Great Britein.
7
(a)
Italy.
7
(e)
The lletherlands.
8
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFIAIRS:
(a)
The Cabinet.
8, 9
(b)
The Army.
9, 10
(c)
The Diet.
10, 11
(a)
Political Farties.
11
(e)
The Navy.
11, 12
(f)
Reactionaries.
12
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
12, 13
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
13, 14
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANC IAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Foreign Trade.
14
(b)
Financial Trends.
15
(c)
Shipping....
15

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
DX. LABOR:.
16
X.
MISCELLANEOUS:
Nothing to report.

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). Premier Hayashi's Reference to American-
Japanese Relations in Diet Speech.
In the section of his speech before the House of Peers
711.9
on February 15 devoted to foreign affairs, Premier Hayashi
stated: "Japan's policy of promoting friendship with Great
Britain and the United States is immutable. Between the
former country and ours there exist questions of various
sorts requirine adjustment". The Premier made no mention
of questions pending between the United States and Japan.
Several days prior to the delivery of this speech it had been
intimated to the Embassy that General Hayashi would purposely
not mention pending questions between the two countries since
he was desirous of conveying the impression that Japanese-
American relations are satisfactory.*
(b).
Reaction in Japan to the American Naval Building
Program.
The reaction in Japan to the recent announcement of
America's navel building procram was a quiet one. The an-
nouncement brought forth no official reply from the Japanese
Navy and received little attention in the Diet interpellations.
However, in answer to an interpellation in the Diet the Navy
Minister asserted that Japan had no intention of building up
to parity with "the strongest of naval powers". There was
very little editorial comment on America's new building plans.
The JAPAN TIMES of February 2O and the OSAKA MAINICHI of
February 18 were in agreement that Japan need not attempt to
build its navy up to parity with that of the United States
but
*
Erbassy's telegram No. 57 of February 15, 1937.

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
but must only maintain a navy strong enough to remain supreme
in the Western Pacific. The latter newspaper added that if
Great Britain's new naval building program should stimulate
the Uuited States to fresh building, the Japanese Navy might
finally be obliged to build more ships to meet the situation
proportionately.
In this connection a previous editorial in the JAPAN
TIMES (February 13) is of interest. It described the present
foreign policy of the President of the United States as one
of non-interference with Japan in the Far East under any
circumstances.*
(c). Final Ratification by Japanese and American
EA
Interests of the Cotton Textile Agreement.
On February 7 the Association of Exporters of Cotton
Cloth to the United States ratified the agreement concluded
at Osaka on January 22 by the unofficial American Textile
Mission and Japanese cotton textile interests.** The four
other organizations that took part in the negotiations held
from January 15 to January 22 had already approved the agree-
ment.***
Approval was given to the agreement on February 17
by the American Cotton Textile Institute, which had sponsored
the American Textile Mission.
(a). Forthcoming Visit to the United States of an
Unofficial Economic Mission.
It will be remembered that the press reported in January
that the Japan Economic Federation had decided to send an
economic mission to the United States in the spring of 1937
the visit of
to return the unofficial American Economic Mission which came
to Japan in April 1935 under the chairmanship of Mr. W.
Cameron Forbes.**** This report was confirmed on February
12
Embassy's despatch No. 2287 of February 27, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2235 of January 29, 1937.
Embassy's telegram No. 44 of February 8, 1937.
Embassy's monthly report for January, Section I (a).

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3-
12.*
Several days later it became known that the Mission
would visit the United States in April.** On February 22
Mr. Shokyuro Kadono, Vice President of the Okura interests,
accepted the chairmanship of the Mission which, it is under-
stood, will visit Great Britain in addition to the United
States. According to the OSAKA MAINICHI of February 23, the
Japanese Economic Mission will endeavor to readjust Japanese-
American trade relations in general without dealing with any
individual item of trade and will also stress the importance
of redistributing world resources.
(e).
American Government's Attitude toward Smuggling
in North China.
On February 8 the Ambassador took up orally and informally
with the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs the question of
smuggling into North China, stating that the situation still
adversely affected American trade in general and that the
situation continued to be of concern to the American Govern-
ment.*** The Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs made his
usual comment in reply to the effect that an improvement in
the situation mi, ht be expected when Chinese customs tariffs
were reduced.
(f). Visit to Japan of President Quezon.
Having arrived in Japan on January 3l, President Quezon,
accompanied by General MacArthur and twenty-five others,
sailed for the United States on February 2. During his
brief stay in this country President Quezon was presented
to the Emperor by the Ambassador and attended a luncheon
given by the Emperor in his honor.**** At an official dinner
given by lir. Arita the gracious and laudatory remarks con-
cerning
Embassy's telegram No. 55 of February 13, 1937.
**
Department's telegram No. 31 of February 18, 1937.
***
Department's telegram No. 25 of February 6; Embassy's
telegram No. 46 of February 8; and Embassy's despatch
No. 2252 of February 10, 1937.
Embassy's telegram No. 35 of Februery 2, 1937.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
cerning the United States made by President Quezon in his
speech contrasted sharply with Mr. Arita's failure to make
any mention whatsoever of the United States. Mr. Quezon's
public statements in Japan were characterized by tact with
regard to this country yet by frankness with regard to the
intimate and cordial nature of the relations between the
Philippine Commonwealth and the United States.*
WE
(g). American and Jananese Interest in the Open Door
In the Congo Basin.
In accordance with the Department's instructions,** the
Embassy inquired of the Foreien Office on February 8 con-
cerning the attitude of the Japanese Government toward the
continuance of the Open door in the Congo Basin. On Feb-
ruary 16 the Chief of the Treaty Bureau of the Foreign Office
told a member of the Embassy staff that he was in a position
informally to state the opinion of the Japanese Government
that it was interested in the maintenance of the open door
in the Congo Basin and would like to see the St. Germain
Convention perpetuated and similar conventions adopted else-
where in Africa.*** On Februery 24 the Embassy informed the
Foreign Office informally that the American Government's
interests in the maintenance of the provisions of the St.
Germain Convention providing for equal commercial opportunity
and the open door was based solely on the fact that those
provisions were in direct harmony with the broad commercial
policy pursued by the American Government, and that the
American Government did not intend to initiate any teps
for a revision of the Convention.****
There are various
evidences
Embassy's despatch No. 2270 of February 17, 1937.
**
Department's instruction No.1166 of December 16, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 2264 of February 16, 1937.
****
Embassy's despatch No. 2280 of February 26, 1937.

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
evidences that Japan was interested in the extension to
other colonial markets of the open door as provided for in
the St. Germain Convention: Mr. Arita's speech before the
Diet on January 2l, 1937; a statement made to a Secretary
of the Embassy on February 24 by the Chief of the Treaty
Bureau of the Foreign Office to the effect that the attitude
of the present Government is the same as that expressed in
Mr. Arita's speech; and a statement made toward the close
of February by the Foreign Office spokesman.
II. RELATIONS WITI OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a).
China.
7931941
There was further evidence during the month that Japan
was contemplating an alteration of i ts former aggressive
policy toward China and the adontion of conciliatory tactics
with a view to arriving at some sort of an economic rapproche-
ment.* A report in the ASAHI of February 6 stated that the
Army hoped that Japan's diplomacy toward China would tend
toward a strengthening of economic cooperation based on
racial harmony.** In his speech before the Diet on February
15 Premier Hayashi said that it was urgent ly necessary to
cultivate cordial feelins between the two countries, to
foster mutual appreciation, to brin about closer contact
not only between the two Governments but also between the
two peoples, and to achieve in more concrete form "cooperation
and mutual assistance". Many of the interpellations made
by members of the Diet urged the adontion by the Government
of a more sympathetic attitude toward China and Premier
Hayashi's replies lent weight to the conciliatory expres-
The
sions contained in his speech of February 15.***
Japanese
Monthly report for January, Section II (a).
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2266 of February 16, 1937.
*年*
Embassy's despatch No. 228l of Februery 25, 1937.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Japanese press reported that the Government would abandon
its political desiderata with regard to China and would in
future pursue two aims, both economic in character: the
reduction of the Chinese tariff and the establishment of
an air service between Japan and China.
(b). Soviet Russia.
EF
Although the Soviet Government continued to obstruct
761.94
the Japanese-Soviet shipping service and traffic on the
international railway, it denied having any intention of
interference in these matters and contended that the measures
already taken had been largely in retaliation for similar
acts on the part of the Japanese.* It seemed probable,
however, that the USSR had chosen the present time to take
such steps for the purpose of indirectly protesting against
the Japenese-German anti-Comintern agreement.
In cortrast to his conciliatory remarks about China,
Premier Hayashi's statements concerning the Soviet Union in
his speech before the Diet on February 15 were uncompro-
mising.** He asserted that the USSR must "correctly compre-
hend Japan's position in East Asia" and urged that that
country take a broad view and cooperate with Japan.
On the other hand, several interpellations were made
in the Diet advocating a more friendly policy toward Soviet
Russia, one interpellator going so far as to suggest that
Japan join hands with that country to present a strong front
against Great Britain.***
The most significant interpellation
regarding Russia was that of Mr. Ozaki, who questioned the
wisdom of the German-Japanese anti-Comintern agreement and
suggested as an alternative a re-examination of the Soviet
proposal
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2272 of February 17, 1937.
**
Embassy's telcgram No. 57 of February 15, 1937.
***
Embassy s despatch No. 2293 of March 1, 1937.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
proposal for a non-aggression pact.* Premier Hayashi's
replies to these interpellations were evasive, but the
War Minister insisted that the Japanese Army must continue
to expand its armaments on account of the increasing
strength of the Soviet military establishment in the Far
East.
(c).
Great Britain.
WE
The Keelung incident remained unsettled.** Another
outstandin issue was settled, however, with the acceptance
by the Japanese Foreign Office of the British proposal for
a solution of the perpetual leasehold question in Japan.***
A report that Sir Robert Clive, British Ambassador to
Japan, had been transferred as Ambassador to Belgium was
confirmed on February 26. On his departure this spring
Sir Robert Clive will have served as Ambassador in Tokyo
for nearly three years.
(a). Italy.
The Italo-Jenanese Institute, a cultural organization,
held its inaugural meeting in Tokyo on February 1l at which
Baron Kishichiro Okura was elected president and the Italian
Ambassador to Japan was elected honorary president. It is
reported thet a plan is progressing for the establishment
of a Japanese-Italian Institute in Rome and that the
activities of the two institutes will be the exchange of
professors and students between Italy and Japan, the holding
of lecture meetings, the promotion of scientific study,
et cetera.
(c).
Embassy's despatch No. 2295 of February 27, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram iio. 61 of February 24, 1937.
***Embassy's telegram No. 63 of February 25, 1937.

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
(e). The Netherlands.
Accordins, to a news item in the OSAKA MAIIICHI of
February 21, the Government has decided to send Mr. Kazue
Kuwashima, recently appointed Japanese Linister to The
Hague, on a tour or investigation in the Hetherland East
Indies with a view to alleviating the tense trade situation
existing between Japan and thos: colonies. Mr. Kuwashima
left Tokyo en route to the Netherland East Indies on
February 28.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet.
A Cabinet under the Premiership of General Senjuro
894.002
Hayashi was installed in office on February 2, consisting
of the following members:
Minister for Education, General Hayashi (concurrently)
Minister for Overseas Affairs, General Hayashi
(concurrently)
Jar Mtnister, General Kotaro Nakamura
Navy Minister, Admiral Mitsumesa Yonai
Minister for Finance, Mr. Toyotaro Yuki
Minister for liome Affairs, Mr. Kakichi Kawarada
Minister for Justice, Mr. Suchiko Shiono
Minister for Communications, Count Hideo Kodama
Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Mr. Tatsunosuke
Yamasaki.
Minister for Commerce and Industry, Admiral Tatsuo Godo
Minister for Railways, Admiral Godo (concurrently)
General Nakamura, who was appointed only as a stop-gap War
Minister, was succeeded on February 1o by General Gen
Sugiyama.*
The
* Embassy's despatch No. 2268 of February 18, 1937.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
The Hayashi Cabinet's first statement of policy,
issued on February 8, was nebulous and ambiguous.* A more
significant statement of policy was contained in the
Premier's speech before the Diet of February 15.** The
part of this speech which dealt with internal political
affairs was conciliatory in tone and indicated a desire
to cooperate with the Diet as far as possible. Those
sections of the speech which dealt with foreign affairs
and Government finance are discussed in other parts of
the present report.
(b). The Army.
General Ugaki's efforts to form a Cebinet during the
latter part of January having failed because of the Army's
opposition, particularly the opposition of the faction led
by General Itagaki, Chief of Staff of the Kwantung Army,
Premier-designate Hayashi was faced with the problem of
finding a War Minister suitable to the Army and also to
the political parties. At first he chose General Itagaki,
who was acceptabie neither to the political parties nor to
the so-called moderate "Big Three" of the Army (Generals
Sugiyama, Terauchi, Umezu). Therefore General Nakamura was
chosen to tide over the situation and General Sugiyama was
appointed War Minister on February 10, with General Umezu
as Vice Minister for Var.*** The fact that the chauvinist
Itagaki groun was excluded from membership in the Cabinet
cannot be interpreted to mean that the influence of this
group has been materially lessened. In the first place,
Itagaki was Hayashi's first choice for War Minister. Further-
more
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2256 of February 15, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 57 of February 15, 1937.
***Embassy's despatch No. 2268 of February 18, 1937.

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
- 10 -
more, it is likely that the assignment of several of the
Itagaki group to high Division commands, as announced in
the regular periodic shifts of Army officers on February 24,*
reflected Premier Hayashi's respect for this faction.
No untoward incidents were reported to have taken place
on the anniversary of the February 26 Insurrection. Accord-
ing to Domei of February 24, the police authorities issued
orders prohibiting all public meetines or functions of any
sort in commemoration of the event with the exception of
memorial services to be held by the families of the victims
of the revolt. Domei also stated that the police had ob-
served a tendency toward public approval of the rebels'
action and had even heard praise of the insurrectionaries.
On February 24 memorial services were held for Mr. Takahashi,
Viscount Saito, and Ceneral Watanabe, who were assassinated
by the insurgents. The HOCHI, the YOMIURI, and THE JAPAN
TIMES published editorials on February 26 deprecating the
Incident.
(c).
The Diet.
Having been prorogued on January 21, the Diet was
reconvened by Premier Hayashi on February 15. In a series
of frank interpellations the Government was assailed on a
number of issues.** The most outstanding interpellation of
the liberal Diet element was that of Mr. Yukio Ozaki on
February 17, while the most chauvinistic interpellation was
that of Mr. Seico Nakano on the following day.*** Desirous
of having its budget passed and of avoiding the contingency
of Diet dissolution, the Government maintained a conciliatory
attitude throughout the month.****
While attacking the
Government
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2294 of March 1, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatches No. 2271 of February 17, and
No. 2203 of March 1, 1937.
丰**
Embassy's despatch No. 2290 of February 27, 1937.
****
Embassy's despatches No. 2274 of February 18, and
No. 2291 of March 1, 1937.

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
Government vigorously, the political parties showed no
intent of either attempting the Cabinet's downfall or of
hindering its plans for the 1937-1938 budget.
(d). Political Parties.
It became apparent during the month that General Ita-
gaki and his ultra-chauvinistic croup in the Army were
backing the movement for the formation of a new reactionary
political party.* Having learned through the circumstances
which surrounded the downfall of the Hirota Cabinet that
the political parties can at times be troublesome, the Army
has apparently come to the conclusion that its best policy
will be to develop a single nationalist party for control
of the Diet.** There are indications, however, that the
leaders of the new party movement do not look for ultimate
success for a number of years to come.
(e). The Navy.
The part played by the Navy in thwarting General Hayashi's
plan to include General Itagaki and Admiral Suetsugu, both
chauvinists, in his Cabinet was discussed in the Embassy's
despatch No. 2268 of February 18. A further evidence of the
moderating influence of the Navy may be found in the follow-
ing conditions laid down by Admiral Yonai for his acceptance
of the Navy portfolio, as reported by the JAPAN CHRONICLE of
February 2: all persons, military and civilian, must con-
scientiously refrain from interfering in political matters
of no concern to them; sudden changes in political and
economic organization must be avoided and all reforms must
be progressive; foreign policy must emanate fror one source;
and Japan's policy toward China must be re-examined in order
that
Monthly Report for January, Section III (e), and
Despatch No. 2273 of February 18, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2268 of February 18, 1937.

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
that Japan may contribute to the establishment of peace in
the Far East as the leader of East Asia. Another of Yonai's
conditions, which could be taken for granted, was that the
Premier must accept the Navy's estimates for the new budget.
Admiral Nagano, Navy Minister under the Hirota Cabinet,
assumed his duties of Commander-in-Chief of the Japanese
Fleet on February 3.
(f). Reactionaries.
According to Domei, members of the Japan Production
Party, a reactionary organization without Diet representa-
tion, called on Mr. Yukio Ozaki on February 22 and recom-
mended that he take responsibility for the "anti-Army"
statements conteined in his interpellation of February 17
and resien his position as a member of the House of Repre-
sentatives.
IV.
COURSE OF IEGISLATICN.
On account of the time taken up by interpellations no
legislative projects were considered by the Diet other than
the Government's budget bill, discussions on which started
on February 17.
Of the bills reported to have been presented
to the Diet thus far the following may be mentioned: bills
for the revision of the Military Secrets Preservation Law,
the Conscription Law, the Patent Law, and the Law Governing
the Organization of the Courts of Justice; and a bill pro-
viding for an increase in taxation. Accordine to the JAPAN
CHRONICLE of February 24, the bill for the revision of the
Military Secrets Preservation Law (enacted in 1899) contains
clearer definitions of military secrets, stricter provisions
for the prevention of organized espionage and of the acti-
vities of spies, new provisions for the prohibition of the
entry

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
entry of persons into certain specified zones to preserve
secrets relative to exercises, experiments, and researches,
and more stringent regulations against the entry of foreign
vessels into naval ports and forbidden ports and bays. It
will be recalled that a more drastic bill along similar lines
failed of passage in the May 1-May 27 Diet session of 1936.*
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
On February 2, Mr. Toyotaro Yuki was installed as
Finance Minister in the Hayashi Cabinet and has generally
been considered as the strong man of the Cabinet. The
appointment of Mr. Yuki, in whom the nation apparently has
confidence as a conservative financier in contrast to his
predecessor, Dr. Baba, soon began to make itself felt in
an easing of monetary tension.** Mr. Eigo Fukai formally
resigned as Governor of the Bank of Japan on February 8 and
was succeeded by Mr. Seihin Ikeda,*** formerly managing
director of the Mitsui organization. This appointment was
interpreted by a Diet interpellator as a step toward finan-
cial fascism.****
A budget for the fiscal year 1937-1938 amounting to
approximately ¥2,770,000,000 was approved by the Cabinet on
February 12 and on February 17 was presented to the Diet for
its consideration. Although this ficure represents a decrease
of ¥270,000,000, or approximately 9%, as compared with the
budget approved by the Hirota Cabinet, it is still l9% bigher
than the actual budget for 1936-37. Furthermore, the military
appropristions in the Hirota Cabinet's proposed budget have
not been reduced in the present budget estimates. It is
true
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1876 of May 29, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2294 of March 1, 1937.
*率*
Embassy's telegram No. 52 of February i0, 1937.
****
Embassy's despatch No. 2293 of March 1, 1937.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
true, however, that the Cabinet has promised not to spend
the relatively small sums of ¥23,000,000 allotted respectively
to the Army and the Navy in the Hayashi Cabinet's budget
estimates but to defer these sums to the fiscal year 1938-1939.
Largely because of the necessity of obtaining the Diet's
approval of this budget with the large expenditures demanded
by the Army and the Navy, Premier Hayashi has had to approach
the Diet in a friendly and conciliatory attitude.
The
political parties criticized the Government in the Diet on
the grounds that the proposed military appropriations were
too large and that there was too great a disproportion
between these expenditures and those set aside for stabiliza-
tion of the livelihood of the neople, particularly in the
matter of financial aid for the farming and fishing com-
munities. However, it seemed at the close of the month that
made
these criticisms had beenaImost entirely for the purpose of
political debate and not with the intent of obstructing the
Cabinet's budgetary plans.* At the close of the month it
was generally conceded by competent observers that the
budget presented by the Hayashi Cabinet would be passed by
the Diet.
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL COIDITIONS.
(a). Foreign Trade.
Japan's exports for February amounted to ¥225,654,000
and imports into this country: amounted to ¥302,434,000,
as compared with January exports of ¥200,304,000 and imports
of ¥304,126,000. Thus there was
an unfavorable balance of
trade of ¥96,780,000 as compared with an unfavorable balance
for January of ¥103,822,000.
(b).
* Embassy's despatch No. 2293 of March 1, 1937.

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
(b). Financial Trends.
The stock market was active and the price of shares
appreciated considerably; few Government bonds and corporation
debentures were issued owing to uncertainty concerning the
political situetion; commodity prices declined slightly as
compared with the previoua month. The Bank of Japan's whole-
sale price index number was 230.4, which represented a
decrease of 2.9 as compared with January; the money market
was active; and the average yen rate of the Yokohama Specie
Bank was $0.28521, as compared with $0.28625 for January.
(c). Shipping.
WE
According to the OSAKA MAINICHI of February 7, the report
EA
of the Imperial British Shipping Committee is expected to
contain a recommendation for the closing of the Indian coastal
shipping trade to Japanese ships and officials of the Japanese
Ministry of Communications have stated that the adoption of
such a measure would be tantamount to an economic blockade
of Japan.
The ASAHI of February 13 reported that the Kochu Koshi,
an organization founded by the South Manchuria Railway Company
for the development of North China, had decided to establish
the Tangku Transport Company with a capitalization of
¥3,000,o00 for the importation from North China of salt,
iron ore, coal, and raw cotton. It is understood that the
motive behind the Kochi Koshi's plan is a desire to acquire
the resources necessary for helping to put Japan on a semi-
wartime footing.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERC IAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COME.ERC IAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
x.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
-16 -
DX. LABOR.
The OSAKA MAINICHI of February 4 reported that the
Japanese delegation to the International Labor Conference
to be held at Geneva in May would oppose the 40-hour working
week, one of the priicipal efenda of the conference. In
addition Japanese employers were stated by the JAPAN CHRONICLE
of February 17 to have decided against the raising of the
minimum age for factory workers.
Four crews of the Tosa Steamship Company went on strike
on February 9 allegedly because the Company had urged its
seamen to renounce their membership in the Japan Seamen's
Union. The Union presented demands to the Tosa Steamship
Company for the adoption of a minimum wage system, the
establishment of a retirement allowance system, and an in-
crease of wages twice a year. Holding himself responsible
for these labor difriculties, Mr. Tamikichi Kobayashi,
Managing Director of the Company, committed suicide on
February 16. According to the JAPAII CHRONICLE of February 19,
Mr. Kobayashi had been in disagreement with the President
of the Company over the latter's insistence that he take a
strong attitude toward the strikers.
A strike of a distinctly different character was started
on February 28 by another scamen's union, the ieirokai
(Enlightened Serene Society), which charged the Nippon Yusen
Kaisha (Japan Mail Steamship Company) with "lèse majesté"
for not having hoisted flags on its vessels at the time of
the naval review held off
Osaka last fall. According to
Domei, the striking union demanded that the Nippon Yusen
Kaisha apologize through the newspapers for its "lèse majesté"
and immediately renovate the Company's policy on the basis
of the guiding spirit of "Japanism".
X. MISCELLANEOUS. Nothing to report.

=== Page 303 === (confidence 1.00)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING FEBRUARY, 1937.
No.
Date
Subject
2237
Feb. 1
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2238
Feb. 1
Cipher Tables.
2239
Feb. 1
Keelung Incident.
2240
Feb. 1
Perpetual Leases.
2241
Feb. 1
Political Developments in Japan, January 1937.
2242
Feb. 10
Exchange of Publications.
2243
Feb. 3
Rental Allowance for Mr. Farish.
2244
Feb. 3
Communications Laws and Regulations.
2245
Feb. 3
Book for the Department.
2246
Feb. 4
Itinerary of Mr. Ohashi.
2247
Feb. 4
Retention of Submarine USSO-1 by the U. S.
2248
Feb. 4
Fever Therapy Conference.
2249
Feb. 9
Tokyo-Peiping Pouoh Service.
2250
Feb. 9
Repairs.
2251
Feb. 9
Publication for the Department.
2252
Feb. 10
Smuggling in North China.
2253
Feb. 10
Cost of Living Statements.
2254
Feb. 12
Completion of U.S.S. CUSHING and U.S.S.PERKINS.
2255
Feb. 13
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2256
Feb. 15
Policies of the Hayashi Cabinet.
2257
Feb. 16
Monthly Political Report for January.
2258
Feb. 15
Fifth Quarter Examination of Mr. Schmidt.
2259
Feb. 15
Fifth Quarter Examination of Mr. Richardson.
2260
Feb. 15
Fifth
Quarter Examination of Mr. Johansen.
2261
Feb. 15
Fifth Quarter Examination of Mr. Yuni.
2262
Feb. 15
Fifth Quarter Examination of Mr. Johnson
2263
Feb. 15
Fifth Quarter Examination of Mr. Caldwell.
2264
Feb. 16
Open Door in the Congo Basin.
2265
Feb. 16
Visit of the U.S.S. GOLD STAR to Japan.
2266
Feb. 16
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2267

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
2267
Feb. 16
Japanese Propaganda Film "The New Earth".
2268
Feb. 18
Political Developments in Japan, Feb. 1-16, 1937.
2269
Feb. 17
Press Ban on Certain Military Measures.
2270
Feb. 17
Visit to Japan of President Quezon.
2271
Feb. 17
Diet Proceedings, February 15 and 16.
2272
Feb. 17
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2273
Feb. 18
New Party Movement in Japan.
2274
Feb. 18
Interpellation by Mir. Yukio Ozaki.
2275
Feb. 20
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
2276
Feb. 24
Visit to Japan of Cardinal Dougherty,
Archbishop of Philadelphia.
2277
Feb. 25
Social Insurance.
2278
Feb. 25
Smuggling of Morphine Ex S. S. HEIAN MARU.
2279
Feb. 26
Japanese Group Passports.
2280
Feb. 26
Open Door in the Congo Basin.
2281
Feb. 25
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2282 Feb. 26
Delay in the Mails.
2283
Feb. 26
Diet Interpellation, Mr. Yukio Ozaki.
2284
Feb. 27
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2285
Feb. 27
Counterfeiting United States Notes in Shanghai.
2286
Feb. 27
Trip Abroad of Mr. Ohashi, Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs of "Manchukuo".
2287
Feb. 27
Editorial on American Far East Policy.
2288
Feb. 27
Sale of Steel Rails by a Japanese Concern to
a Railway in Brazil.
2289
Feb. 27
Arrest of Mr. Crocker's Servant.
2290
Feb. 27
Diet Interpellation of Mr. Seigo Nakano.
2295
Feb. 27
Soviet-Japanese Relations.

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING FEBRUARY, 1937.
No. Date
Subject
35
Feb. 2, 3 p. m.
Visit of President Quezon to Japan.
36
Feb. 2, 7 p. m.
Installation of Hayashi Cabinet.
37
Feb. 3, 11 a. m.
Testimony of Mr. and Mrs. Dickover.
38
Feb. 4, 1l a. m.
Arrival of Pouches.
39
Feb. 4, noon
Receipt of Cipher Tables.
40
Feb. 4, 1 p. m.
Receipt of Cipher Tables.
41
Feb. 4, 4 p. m.
Requisition for Funds.
42
Feb. 6, 10 a. m.
Smuggling in North China.
43
Feb. 6, 11 a. m.
Hayashi Cabinet.
44
Feb. 8, 2 p. m.
Ratification by Japanese of Cotton
Textile Exports Agreement.
45
Feb. 8, 3 p. m.
Tripartite Conference on Textile Industry
46
Feb. 8, 4 p. m.
Smuggling in North China.
47
Feb. 8, 5 p. m.
International Hydrographic Bureau.
48
Feb. 8, 6 p. m.
Exchange Situation.
49
Feb. 8, 7 p. m.
Policies of Hayashi Cabinet.
50
Feb. 9, noon.
Group Passport and Visa Matter.
51
Feb. 9, 1 p. m.
Search of Standard-Vacuum Premises.
52
Feb. 10. 7 p. m.
Hayashi Cabinet.
53
Feb. 12, 2 p. m.
Right of Search of Foreign Property
by Japanese Police.
54
Feb. 12, 4 p. m.
Proposed Visit of U.S.S. GOLD STAR to
Japanese Ports.
55
Feb. 13, 11 a. m.
Proposed Japanese Economic Mission to
the United States.
56
Feb. 13, noon.
Group Passport and Visa Matter.
57
Feb. 15, 6 p. m.
Premier Hayashi's Speech Before Diet.
58
Feb. 18, 4 p. m.
Statement of Navy Minister in the Diet.
59
Feb. 19, 5 p. m.
Financial and Economic Situation.
60
Feb. 23, 11 a. m . Arrest of Mr. Crocker's Servant.
61
Feb. 24, noon.
Keelung Incident; Anglo-Japanese Relation
62
Feb. 24, 3 p. m.
The Open Door in the Congo Basin.
63
Feb. 25, 1 p. m.
Perpetual Leasehold Question.
64
Feb. 27, 6 p. m.
Shipment of Gold to the United States.

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.93)
Crpyin FE1381
MAY 28 1937
ENARTEBIT OF STATE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 4-1937
MAY 25 1937
sa
AMERICAN EMBASSY
974.009K
UEPARIMENI UF SIATE
No. 2568
tokyo, April 16, 1937
SUBJECT: REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF MARCH, 1937.
LEGALADVISER
MOPEAN AFFAIRE
DEPARTMENTOF STATE
MAY 20 17
p 3 24
Commace
MID
ESC
7.
COPIES SENT TO
894.00 P.R./11
RECORDING DESK
U.N.I. AND M. ID.
ILE - WHB
the
Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
2
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
1/
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions
JUN 2
in Japan for the month of March, 1937.
FLFD
Respectfully yours
.
1837
Enclosur:
Joseph C. Grew
1/ Report No. 126
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Embassy, Moscow
Consulate General, Osaka
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Harbin
F/FG
Consulate General, Mukden
Comsulate, Kobe
Consulate, Dairen
In quintuplieate to the Department
00010/m
≠9

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
NO. 126
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF MARCH, 1937

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX
AND
SUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a)
Settlement of the Perpetual Lease Question. 1
(b)
Japanese Salmon Fishing in American and
Canadian Waters.
1
(c)
Unofficial Japanese Economic Mission to
the United States.
1, 2
(a)
The Immigration Issue.
2
(e)
Naval Affairs.
2,3
(f)
American-Japanese Relations in Connection
with Sino-Japanese Relations.....
3
II. RELATIONS WI TH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a)
China.
3,4,5,
(b)
Soviet Russia.
5
(c)
Great Britain.
5,6
(a)
Netherland India.
6,7
(e)
Australia.
7
(f)
Brazil.
7
(e)
Spain.
8
III. ITERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a)
The Cabinet and the Diet.
(b)
The Army and the Navy.
9, 10
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
10
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
10
VI.
GENERAL EC ONOMIC AND FINANC IAL CONDI TIONS:
(2)
Foreign Trade.
10, 11
(b)
Financial Trends.
11
(c)
Aviation.
11
(a)
Shipping.
11
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR:
12
X. MISCELLANEOUS:
Nothing to report.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). Settlement of the Perpetual Lease Question.
The perpetual lease question was settled between the
Japanese and American Governments on March 25 with the
signature and exchange of notes by the Japanese Minister
for Foreign Affairs and the Anerican Ambassador.* According
to the terms of the agreement, the system of perpetual
leases as regards American leaseholders will terminate
on April 1, 1942, when the leaseholds shall, without com-
pensation, be converted into the rights of ownership under
Japanese laws and ordinances, the status quo regarding
taxation of leaseholders being preserved until March 31,
1942.**
(b).
Japanese Salmon Fishing in American and
Canadian Waters.
On March 2O the CIUGAI SHOGYO SHIMBUN published the
text of a pamphlet issued by the Kaiyo Gyogyo Shinko Kyokai
(The Open Seas Fishery Development Association), a society
founded in May, l936, which is reputed to have the backing
of the Japanese Navy.*** The pamphlet upholds the alleged
riht of the Jananese to take salmon in the northeast Pacific
outside territorial waters and requests the Japanese Govern-
ment to investigate and deliberate on the whole question of
salmon fishing.****
(c). Unofficial Japanese Economic Mission to the
United States.
On March 18 Baron Seinosuke Goh issued a statement
concerning the unofficial Japanese Economic Mission scheduled
to denart for the United States on April 28 ***** in which
he expressed the hope that the mission throueh contact with
influential
*
Embassy's telegran No. 97 of March 25, 1937, and
Embassy's despatch No. 2338 of April 1, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2319 of March 19, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegram No. 94 of March 23, 1937, and
Embassy s despatch No. 2348 of April 2, 1937.
****
Embassy's despatch No. 2328 of March 2, 1937.
Embassy's monthly reports for January and February, l937.

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
influential authorities and business leaders end through
a frank exchange of views on. important industrial and
economic problems would contribute to the economic develop-
ment of Japan and to the edvancement of international
friendship.* In this connection it is worthy of note
that the Japanese Government has apparently not given up
its idea of entering into negotiations with the United
States for the conclusion of a reciprocal trade agreement.**
Evidence of the Jananese Government's views concerning the
possible conclusion of a recinrocal trade agreement with
the United States was a statement made at a plenary session
of the House of Renresentatives on March 19 by the Chief
of the Commercial Affairs Bureau of the Foreign Office to
the effect that a proposal for such an agreement would
receive the careful consideration of the Japenese Government.***
(d). Thc Immigration Issue.
In reply to an interpellation in the House of Representa-
tives on March 23 the Minister for Foreicn Affairs stated
that the question of Japanese immigration in the United
States was being discussed in the United States and that
the Japanese Government would endeavor to obtain a settle-
ment advantaceous to Japan.****
(e). Naval Affairs.
Interpelleted on March 22 concernin the recently
announced British and American naval building programs, the
Director of the Naval Affairs Bureau stated in the Diet
that there was no need for Japan to alter its third re-
plenishment program of naval construction on account of
these
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2330 of March 24, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2315 of March 17, 1937.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 2339 of April 1, 1937.
*率**
Embassy s telegram No. 95 of March 24, 1937, and
despatch No. 2340 of Apri1 1, 1937.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
these plans.* On the same day the Navy Minister asserted
that Japan would be secure from an attack by the air forces
of the American Navy by the end of the year 1939-40, at
which time Japan's naval air force expansion program
would be completed.**
(f).
American-Japanese Relations in Connection with
Sino-Japanese Relations.
In a talk with the Ambassador on March 5, Mr. Sato,
the new Minister for Foreign Affairs, stated that in his
opinion Japanese-American relations as well as the relations
between Japan and other countries must be largely influenced
by Japan's relations with China. The Minister for Foreign
Affairs explained that he wanted to improve Sino-Japanese
relations and thereby improve Japan's relations with the
rest of the world.***
II. RELATIONS VITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a). China.
Although Japan's recently announced intention of adopting
a more conciliatory and more equitable policy toward China
has relieved the tension between the two countries, nothing
of a concrete nature has been effected toward a rapprochement
and nothing hes been done for the settlement of such out-
standing issues as the East Hopei autonomous regime and the
smuggling in North China.****
The Chinese have insisted
that political questions must be settled before an economic
rapprochement can be reached and consequently the Japanese
have failed to further their economic aims with regard to
North China, the principal of which are the lowering of the
Chinese customs tariffs, the establishment of a Japan-North
China
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2316 of March 18, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2325 of March 20, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegram No. 77 of March 5, 1937.
****
Embassy's despatches No. 2317 of March 18, and.
2345 of Apri1 2, 1937.

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
China air service, the building of a Sino-Japanese railway,
and the development of an iron mine in Chahar with Japanese
capital. The visit of the Japanese economic mission to
China appears to have been more of a failure than a success
despite the optimistic remarks made by its chairman, Mr.
Kenji Kodama, upon his return to Japan.
On the other hand, Mr. Sato, the newly appointed Minister
for Foreign Affairs, stated on several occasions during the
month that Japan must deal with China on an equal footing
and in a more conciliatory spirit. The military took
exception to some of Mr. Sato's remarks on the ground that
they were too conciliatory. As a consequence the Minister
for Foreign Affairs was forced to make a qualifying state-
ment in the House of Peers to the effeat that in advocating
a policy of conciliation and patience toward China he did
not mean that Japan should be submissive if China trampled
upon international justice or damaged the prestige of Japan.*
Subsequent remarks were made by Mr. Sato which also showed
the influence of the military.** For example, he said that
Central and South China must be dealt with in a different
way from North China since there were special and peculiar
circumstances in the latter region; that the Sust Hopei
and Hopei-Chahar administrations were not a matter for
discussion with Japan; and that the question of Japan's
"special trade"(smuggling) in the East Hopei region was a
concern of East Hopei and should not be discussed with Japan,
but that Japan would consider it in connection with Chinese
tariffs.
In conclusion, it appeared at the end of the month that
Japan still desired to adopt a less aggressive policy toward
China
*
Embassy's telegram No. 89 of March 13, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2345 of April 2, 1937.

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.97)
China but the lines on which the policy ould be worked out
remained undefined owing to certain fundamental differences
between the two Governments.
/EE
(b). Soviet Russia.
There was evidence in the Diet pronouncements of Mr.
741.94
Sato that he realized the necessity of doing something
definite to improve the relations between Japan and the
Soviet Union.* However, the recently concluded German-
Japanese anti-Comintern agreement continued to be the
principal obstacle to the improvement of relations between
the two countries and Mr. Sato's efforts to explain away
the pact met with no success and were dismissed as illogical
both by Diet interpellators and by the press. Despite his
apparent desire to bring about an improvement of the situa-
tion it is obvious that the Minister for Foreign Affairs
cannot abandon the agreement, since the Premier has already
stated that he would support it. According to news despatches
from the USSR, Soviet leaders were skeptical concerning Mr.
Sato's conciliatory remarks in the Diet. Furthermore, the
situation was complicated by reports of the conclusion of
a Soviet-Chinese agreement. The dangerous possibilities of
such an agreement are patent, as it would indicate an inten-
tion on the part of China and Soviet Russia to isolate and
actively oppose Japan.*
WE
(c). Great Britain.
-11.91
On March 27 the Japanese Government informed the British
Government by an aide-mémoire that it was not able to accede
to the desire of the British Government for acceptance by
Japan of 14-inch guns as a maximum calibre for guns on
capital ships.**
The reasons given in the aide-mémoire for
Japan's
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2351 of April 2, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 104 of April 1, 1937.

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Japan's rejection of the l4-inch gun calibre restriction
for capital ships were the same as those given by the
Japanese delegates to the London Naval Conference in
December 1935 and January 1936, namely, thet a disarmament
agreement acceptable to Jepan must be based upon a maximum
common upper limit and upon the principle of "non-menace
and non-aggression", and that qualitative limitation un-
accompanied by quantitative limitation is contrary to the
spirit of disarmament.*
It was announced during the month that Sir Robert L.
Craigie, Assistant Foreign Under Secretary and the Foreign
Office's expert on naval affairs, had been appointed British
Ambassador to Japan to succeed Sir Robert Clive.**
Certain
observers in Tokyo interpreted this appointment as evidence
of Great Britain's interest in Japanese naval policy and
in the conclusion of en eventual naval disarmament agreement.***
On March 25 the Japenese Foreign Office announced the
followinf details of the new trade agreement sicned pro-
visionally between Japan and Burma: Japan is accorded an
annual cotton textile import cuota of 42 million square
yards provided that Japan purchases 65% of Burma's exportable
raw cotton, with the additional proviso that such purchases
need not exceed 70,o00 bales of raw cotton annually.****
WE
(d). Netherland India.
It will be remembered that Mr. Kazue Kuwashima,
757.90
recently appointed Japanese Minister to the Netherlands,
left Tokyo on February 2e on a tour of investigation in the
Netherland East Indies with a view to bringing about an
amelioration in the difficult trade relations existing
between
*
Embassy's desnatch Ho. 2343 of April 1, 1937.
**
Embassy's monthly report for February, Section II(c).
***
Embassy s despatch No. 2325 of March 20, 1937.
****
Embessy's telegran No. 106 of April 10, 1937.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
between Japan and the Netherland Indies. This is the first
time that the Japanese Government has seen fit to despatch
a Minister to the Netherlands to the East Indian colonies
of that country before taking up residence at The Hague.
In a newspaper interview at Singapore on March 27 Mr. Kuwa-
shima predicted a successful conclusion of the trade
negotiations then in progress between the Governments of
Japan and Netherland India. In addition, Mr. Kuwashima
expressed satisfaction with the results of his inspection
tour and with the conversations which he had had with
officials of the Netherland East India Government.
(e). Australia.
A group of Australian rotarians composed of sixty or
more persons and described by the Japanese press as a "good
will mission" arrived at Yokohama on March 17.
The newspapers
interpreted the visit of this party as a further demonstration
of the improving relations between Japan and Australia.
Upon his arrival in Japan on March 27 Mr. Kurumatsu
Murai, former Japanese Consul General in Sydney, declared
that Japanese-Australian trade relations were satisfactory
and thet he expected the successful conclusion of a commercial
treaty between the two countries in the near future.
LA
(f). Brazil.
A Brazilian student "good will mission" arrived in Japan
on March 1 8 and its members were extensively entertained
while in this country. In contradiction of reports emanating
from Brazil, Mr. Ruy Mauricio de Lima e Silva, head of
the student mission, stated that the "useful and honest"
Japanese immigrants who were coming to Brazil were welcome in
and of assistance to his country.
(g).

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
(g). Spain.
The Spanish Government at Valencia formally notified
the Japanese Foreign Office on March 29 that Mr. José Luis
Alvarez, professor of Spanish at the Osaka School of Foreign
Languages, had been appointed Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
of the Valencia Government in Japan. In this connection
reference is made to the Embassy's despatch No. 2035 of
September 16, 1936, which dealt with the resignation of
Mr. Santiago Mendez de Vigo, Spanish Minister to Jepan,
Mr. Juan Gomez de Molina, Counselor of the Spanish Legation,
and Mr. Francisco Castillio, Spanish Consul at Kobe, sym-
pathiziers with the insurgent cause in Spain.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet and the Diet.
Throughout the month interpellators assailed the Govern-
ment on the grounds that the Army had interfered too much
in politics, that the Government had adopted no real measures
for the stabilization of the people'e livelihood, and that
the Government had no well-defined foreign policy.* Because
of its desire for the passage of the budget bill, the Govern-
ment's replies to these interpellations were conciliatory
but did not commit the Government to any definite line of
action.
On March 8 the Government's budget bill for the fiscal
year 1937-38 amountin to ¥2,815,000,000 was approved by
the House of Representatives and on March 29 by the House
of Peers.**
Once havine had its budget bill passed, the Government
felt itself in a stronger position and ordered the dissolution
of the Diet on the ostensible grounds that the Minseito and
the
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2316 of March 18, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2339 of April 1, 1937.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
the Seiyukai were obstructing passage of certain measures
(minor in character and of no vital interest to the Govern-
ment) in retaliation against the Government's refusal to
urge the Upper House to pass the election revision bills
sponsored by the two principal political parties.* The
Imperial Decree ordering the dissolution of the Diet specified
April 30 as the date for the election of members of the
House of Representatives.
It seemed that the Cabinet's determination to dissolve
the Diet was a result of its opposition to party or consti-
tutional government and not of active opposition by the
parties, which had talked a great deal yet had not seen fit
to reject the Government's budget with its huge military
expenditures. The Government charges the political parties
with a lack of appreciation of the prevailing situation,
both at home and abroad, and of "insincerity" in dealing
with governmental business.
While the Government can look
for little in the way of support from the coming general
election, at the same time it has nothing to lose, Further-
more, it apparently has taken a definite step toward the
encouragement of the formation of a new nationalist or
fascist party.
(b).
The Army and the Navy.
The Army's opposition to Mr. Sato's conciliatory diplomatic
policy has already been discussed in this report. Undoubtedly
the Army was a determining factor in the Cabinet's decision
to dissolve the Diet. It should be noted, however, that it
was the Navy Minister who acted as the Government's spokes-
man in favor of dissolution. Admiral Yonai implied in his
statement
* Embassy'a despatch No. 2350 of April 2, 1937.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
statement that the dissolution was a disciplinary measure
against the political parties, which had lacked "sincerity".
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
At the session which ended on March 3l, eighty-three
Government bills were presented to the Diet and forty-eight
of these were passed by both Houses. As already mentioned,
the Cabinet's budget bill for the fiscal year 1937-38
amounting to ¥2,815,000,000 was approved by both Houses.
Some of the laws enacted which are worthy of mention are the
following: a law providing funds for the relief of widows
and orphans; a law regulating the price of raw silk; a law
revising the law concerning special accounts for cultural
enterprises in China; a law requiring manufacturers and
sellers of gasoline to mix alcohol with gasoline in a pro-
portion to be determined later by decree; and a law providing
certain regulations concerning air defense.
V.
GOVERNIINT FINANCE.
Thirteen thousand nine hundred kilograms of gold,
worth about ¥50,000,000, were sent to the United States by
the Japanese Government in three shipments during the . month.
The cold was taken from the specie reserve of the Bank of
Japan and consisted of local purchases made by the Government
three years ago after the promulgation of the Gold Purchase
Act. According to Domei, the proceeds of the sale of the
gold will be credited to the New York office of the Yokohama
Specie Bank, presumably to support the exchange value of
the yen.*
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDI TI ONS.
(a). Foreign Trade.
Fxports from Japan for March amounted to ¥276,006,000
and
Embassy's telegram No. 67 of March 3, 1937,

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
and imports into this country amounted to ¥400,568,000, as
compared with February exports of ¥225,654,000 and imports
of ¥302,434,000. Thus there was an unfavorable balance of
trade of y124,562,000, as compared with an unfavorable
balance for February of ¥96,780,000.*
(b). Financial Trends.
Financial trends in Japan during the month of March
were satisfactory, being marked by industrial expansion,
laree capital payments, increased prices of stocks and
bonds, and continued appreciation of commodity prices. The
average yen rate of the Yokonama Specie Bank was $0.285, as
compared with 0.28521 for February.*
(c). Aviation.
The Japanese press reported that an airplane manufacturing
company would be established with an initial capitalization
of ¥30,000,000 under joint investment by the principal
Japanese industrial companies and that the Mitsui interests
would constitute the heaviest investor.
(d). Shipping.
According to the Japanese press, the Government and the
894.9
Shipbuilding Association have agreed to establish Japan's
shipbuilding industry on a semi-wartime basis and under the
management of a Shipbuilding Control Commission which will
consist of representatives of the Army and the Navy, the
Communications Ministry, and the various shipbuilding companius.
As reported by the Consulate at Kobe,**the Navy is
considering the purchase of the Kawasaki Dockyards at Kobe
for the sum of ¥50,000,000 and in connection with this step
1t is said that the Nippon Yusen Kaisha will absorb the
Kawasaki Kisen Keisha.
VII.
Information furnished by Commercial Attache.
**Despatch from the Consulate ct Kobe, No. 98, dated
March 27, 1937.

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
VII & VIII - Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
The strike which was started on February 28 by the
seamen's union called the Merokai (Enlightened Serene Society),
894.504
which charged the Nippon Yusen Kaisha with "lèse majesté"
for not having hoisted flags on its vessels at the time of
the naval review held off Osaka last fall, came to an end
on March 15 when the Nippon Yusen Kaisha admitted itself
at fault for not having flown flags at the time and the
Merokai apologized for having caused inconvenience.*
The Commander of the Osaka gendarmerie is reported to
have informed an official of the new seamen's union of two
conditions which the Army wishes to be carried out in con-
nection with the proposed merger of the new and old seamen's
unions: (1) the single union should, from the standpoint
of naval defense in the broad sense, sever relations with
the Social Mass Party and the Japan Labor Unions Conference,
"which stand for social democracy", and (2) the single union
should dismiss Mr. Manryo Yonekubo, Vice President of the
Japan Seamen's Union, who is alleged to have declared once
that the Manchurian incident was an "Imperialistic invasion".
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.
* Monthly Report for February, Section IX.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 1.00)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING MARCH, 1937.
No.
Date
Subject
2291
March 1
Mr. Yukio Ozaki's Questionnaire Addressed
to the Cabinet.
2292
March 1
Presentation of American Trees to Japan.
2293
March 1
Diet Interpellations from February 17 to 28.
2294
March 1
Political Developments in Japan, February 17-28.
2296
March 1
Cipher Tables.
2297
March 1
Divorce Suit of Mr. J. B. Farish.
2298
March 3
Request for Government Publication.
2299
March 3
General Doihara on China Policy.
2300
March 4
Completion of U.S.S.SMITH.
2301
March 6
Seizure of Morphine on the S.S. NAMMAN MARU.
2302
March 6
Claim for Indemnity by Mrs. William G. Hillen
on Insured Parcel.
2303
March 6
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
2304
March
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UIII TED STATES, 1923.
2305
March 10
Aviation Law of Japan.
2306
March 10
Rent Allowance of Mr. Neville.
2307
March 13
Confidential Report of Colonel Sturdevant.
2308
March 11
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNI TED STATES, 1923.
2309
March
13
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2310
March 15
Leave of Mr. Crocker.
2311
March 16
Japan's "Southward Advance" Folicy.
2312
March 17
Foreign Policies of Mr. Naotake Sato.
2313
March 17
Requisition for Electric Light Bulbs.
2314
March 17
Monthly Political Report.
2315
March 17
United States-Japan Reciprocal Trade Proposal.
2316
March 18
Diet Proceedings from March 1 to March 16.
2317
March 18
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2318
March 20
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2319
March 19
Perpetual Leaseholds.
2320
March 19
Books for Library of Congress.
2321
March 19
Books for Public Library of Washington, D. C.
2322

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
2322
March 20
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
2323
March 20
Embassy's Requisitions for Typewriters and
Adding-Calculating Machine.
2324
March 20
Shipment of Effects of Mr. Morris N. Hughes.
2325
March 20
Naval Affairs.
2326
March 20
Mission Schools and Shrine Ceremonies in Korea.
2327
March 20
Japanese Mandated South Sea Islands.
2328
March 22
Japanese Salmon Fishing in American and
Canadian Waters.
2329
March 23
Standard Oil Development Company Trade-Mark.
2330
March 24
Proposed Unofficial Japanese Economic Mission
to the United States.
2331
March 24
Book for Department Library.
2332
March 25
Books for Library of Congress.
2333
March 25
Post Report.
2334
March 26
Invitation to Boy Scouts of Japan to Attend
Nationel Jamboree at Jashington.
2335
March 26
Oil Monopoly in Manchuria.
2336
March 27
Diplomatic Visa Report.

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING MARCH, 1937.
No. Date
Subject
65
March 3, noon
Precedence at Diplomatic Functions.
66
March 3, 5 p. m.
Open Door in the Congo Basin.
67
March 3, 6 p. n.
Shipment of Gold to the United States.
68
March 4, 1 p. m.
Open Door in the Congo Basin.
69
March 4, 2 p. m.
Appointment of New Foreign Minister.
70
March 4, 3p. m.
Perpetual Leases.
71
March 4, 7 p. m.
Perpetual Leases.
72
March 5, noon
Repairs to Government Property.
73
March 5, 1 p. m.
Perpetual Leases.
74
March 5, 3 p. m.
Perpetual Leases.
75
March 5, 4 p. m.
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES,
1923.
76
March 5, 5 p. m.
British-Japanese Relations.
77
March 5, 6 p. m.
Conversation with Foreign Minister.
78
March 6, 10 a. m.
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE U.S., 1923.
79
March 6, 11 a. m.
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE U. S., 1923.
80
March 6, noon.
Perpetual Leases.
81
March 8, noon.
Tripartite Textile Conference.
82
March 8, 1 p. m.
Requisition for Funds.
83
March 9, 5 p. m.
Perpetual Leases.
84
March li, 9 a. m.
Visit of Prince and Princess Chichibu
to the United States.
88
March 11, 6 p. m.
Speech of Foreign Minister Sato.
86
March 12, 7 p. m. Speech of Foreign Minister Sato.
87
March 13, 11 a. m. Foreign Minister Sato.
88
March 13, noon
Naval Gun Calibers.
89
March 13, 1 p. m.
Keelung Incident.
90
March 13, 2 p. m. Speech of Foreign Minister Sato.
91
March 18, 1l a. m. House for Mr. Dooman.
92
March 20, 11 a. m. Perpetual Leases.
93

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No. Date
Subject
93
March 23, 1l a. m.. Visit to Japan of High Commissioner
McNutt.
94
March 23, 7 pi m.
Salmon Fisheries.
95
March 24, 2 p. m.
Speech of Foreign Minister Sato.
96
March 24, 4 p1 m.
Salmon Fisheries.
97
March 25, 1 p. m.
Perpetual Leases!
98
March 27, 10 p. m
Naval Gun Calibers.
99
March 29, 7 p. m.
Personal Message for Dr. Hornbeok
100 March 30, 7 p. m.
Personal Message for Dr. Hornbeck.
101 March 31, 4 p. m.
Dissolution of Diet.

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.97)
DAVISION 
aJUN 211937
DEPARTMENT OF
DIVISION OF FAR EASTT
RTAMENT OF STATE
June 9, 1937
There are a few items in Tokyo's
political report for April that are
worthy of noting.
It is reported that agreement has
been reached between the Japanese Hosiery
Exporters Association and the American
Federation of Hosiery Manufacturers Associa-
tions to restrict Japanese exports to the
United States of stockings and socks to a
total of 1,500,000 dozen, the agreement to
remain in force until December 31, 1939.
Mr. Suemasa Okamoto, former Chief of
the American Bureau and one-time Secretary
at the Embassy in Washington, has been
assigned as Consul General at Shanghai.
Mr. Amau, the Foreign Office spokes-
man, has been appointed Minister to
Switzerland; Mr. Kuriyama, Chief of the
Treaty Bureau, has been appointed Minister
to Sweden.
There was a considerable amount of
labor unrest in Japan during April owing
to the increase in the cost of living.
A number of companies have raised wages
voluntarily to ward off expected disputes.
1M
WTTVDLX

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.93)
THE AMERIGAN RÉPUBLDS
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
TE
OF THE
3，
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1937 JUN 1 PM (43
RECALAUVISER
JUN 29 195
No. 2422
COMMLNIIONS
Tokyo, May  lS
DEPARTMENTOFST
1,3,4.9.
SUBJECT: REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH-OP-APRIL, 1937.
OFFIE OF EMCRR 
JUN 251937
JUN21 193
894.0081
DEPARTMENI OSIATE
COPIES SENT TO
U.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
894.00
111
In USA
boor
MD
P.R.
L'orm
FE
The Honorable
B
The Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
A C/C
4JUN -3 1937
RECORDING DEK
Washington.
9k
Department t
FILE- WAlr:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
1937
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in
FILED
Japan for the month of April, 1937.
Respectfully yours,
Parth
Enclosure:
Joseph C. Grew
1/ Report No. 127.
F/FG
Copy to Eabassy, Peiping
Embassy, Mosoow
Consulate Gemeral, Osaka
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate Generel, Harbin
Consulate, Kobe
Coty ratrmand for not
789

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.98)
NO. 127
REPORT ON CODITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE LONTH OF APRIL, 1937

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a)
Kadono Economic Mission to United States... 1
(b)
Difficulties Experienced by American
Automobile Assembling Plants in Japan...... 1
(c)
Provisional Agreement between Japanese and
American Hosiery Interests.
2
(a)
Yoshizawa's Appointment as Chief of the
American Affairs Bureau of the Foreign Office.. 2
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a)
Great Britain..
. 2, 3
(b)
China.
3,4
(c)
Soviet Russia.
(a)
Netherland East Indies.
4
(e)
International.
4,5
(f)
France.
5
(g)
Switzerland.
5
(h)
Argentina..
5
(i)
Chile
5, 6
(J)
Portugal.
6
(k)
Changes in the Japanese Foreign Service.... 6, 7
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a)
The Cabinet and the Diet Elections.......
7,8
(b)
The Army.
8
(c)
Political Parties.
8
(a)
Proposed Government Planning Board.
8
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION: Nothing to Report.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
9
VI.
GENERAL EC ONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a)
Foreign Trade.
9
(b)
Financial Trends.
10
VII. & VIII.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR:
10
MISCELLANEOUS: Nothing to report.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). Kadono Economic Mission to the United States.
An unofficial Japanese Economic Mission sailed for the
71.9J
United States on April 28, apparently with no specific
program to offer in the trade discussions to take place in
Washington. The primary objects of the Mission are to return
the visit to Japan of the Forbes unofficial mission in April
1935 and to discuss general problems of trade between the
two countries, as well as to promote "good will".* Mr.
Chokyuro Kadono, chairman of the Mission and recently
elected President of the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, seemed reluctant to reveal in a conversation with
a member of the Embassy staff just what the aims of his
Mission were. There were rumors, not substantiated by any
of the statements made by Japanese officials or business
Ieaders, that the Kadono Economic Mission intended to
initiate conversations which might result in negotiations
between Japan and the United States for the conclusion of a
reciprocal trade agreement. The Mission will also visit
England and Germany.
(b). Difficulties Eperienced by American Automobile
EA
Assembling Plants in Japan.
American automobile assemblin plants in Japan con-
tinued to have difficulties with the Japanese Government.**
It came to light during the month that the Japanese Govern-
ment had refused to grant permission for one American com-
pany to construct a new plant to operate within the scope
of the Automobile Industry Control Law, that the Company
had not been allowed to make certain desired improvements
in its property, and that it would not be allowed under any
circumstances
* Embassy's despatch No. 2386 of April 29, 1937.
**Embassy's despatches No. 1659 of February 5, 1936,
and No. 2394 of April 30, 1937.

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
circumstances to exceed its quota of 12,360 cars per annum,
even if the Japanese producers could not supply the demand.
(c). Provisional Agreement between Japanese and
American Hosiery Interests.
The JAPAN TIlES of April 9 reported that after pro-
longed negotiations between representatives of the Japanese
Hosiery Exporters Association and the American Federation of
Hosiery Menufacturers Associations a provisional agreement
had been reached restricting Jupanese exports to the United
States of stockings and socks (including all silk, rayon,
mixed rayon and silk, and high grade cotton stockings and
socks) to 1,500,000 dozen, the agreement to be applied
retroactively from January 1, 1937, and to remain in force
until December 31, 1939.
(d). Yoshizawa's Appointment as Chief of the American
Affairs Bureau of the Foreign Office.
On April 3 the Cabinet approved the appointment of
Mr. Seijiro Yoshizawa, former Counselor of the Japanese
Embassy at Washington, as Chief of the American Affairs
Bureau of the Foreign Office and also approved the ap-
pointment of Mr. Suemasa Okamoto, former Chief of this
Bureau, as Consul General at Shanghai.
II. RELATICNS VI TH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a). Great Britain.
The Keelung Incident was settled on April ll through
7:1.90
an exchange of notes between the Director General of the
Formosan Government and the British Consul in Tansui.*
In connection with the settlement of the Keelung Incident,
with increased Japanese apprehension over British economic
activities in China, and with the despatch of the Japanese
unofficial economic mission to Great Britain, it may be
said
* Embassy's telegrams No. 108 of April 12; No. 109 of
April 15; No. 110 of April 16; and No. 113 of Apr11 20, 1937.

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3--
said that at the present moment a tendency can be observed
on the part of Japan toward efforts to ameliorate the
relations between this country and Great Britain.* A
EA
further complication in Anglo-Jananese relations was the
sending of a note in the early part of the month by the
Undersecretary of Commerce of the British-Indian Government
WE
to the Japanese Government announcing a ban on the operation
of Japanese ships on the Indian coastal and India-Burma
shipping services. It was also reported that the British-
Indian Government had suggested the holding of an Anglo-
Japanese shipping conference and that the Japanese Govern-
ment had decided not to attend such a conference.
(b). China.
At the close of the month it appeared that Sino-Japanese
193.9
negotiations were at a standstill, owing principally to
China's realization of its increased strength and of Japan's
weaknesses, and to Japan's understanding of this feeling on
the part of the Chinese.** Divergent points of view are
held by the two countries regarding the improvement of
relations: Japan wants to attain certain economic objectives
in China while the latter country insists that economic
matters cannot be discussed before political issues are
disposed of. The two principal political issues are the
continued existence of the East Hopei Autonomous Government
and the "special trade" or smuggling in North China, for
both of which the Japanese are responsible. It is obvious
that the Japanese authorities, including the military, see
the necessity of adopting a less aggressive attitude toward
China as the result of the strides made by that country
toward national unification. However, it remains vague
as
*
Embassy's despatches No. 2371 of April 16; No. 2386 of
April 29; and No. 2397 of May 1, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2365 of April 16, and No. 2396
of Apr11 30, 1937.

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
as to whether any kind of rapprochement can be made
between the two countries in the near future.
(c). Soviet Russia.
761.94
Mr. Yureneff, the Soviet Ambassador to Japan, arrived
in Tokyo on April 13 after an absence on leave of two
months. There has been a great deal of discussion in the
press concerning several interviews between him and Mr.
Sato, Minister for Foreign Affairs, which were held
reportedly for the purpose of improving relations between
the two countries. The Embassy has been unable to ascertain
the substance of these interviews.
Upon his arrival in Japan, Mr. Yureneff was asked in
a newspaper interview if in his belief there was a way
open for finding smooth relations between the two countries
and his reply was: "I believe there is. Everything depends
on the attitude of the Japanese Government." There would
seem to be a movement on foot at present toward an attempted
readuustment of Soviet-Japanese relations, the motive power
behind this movement being on the Japanese side.*
(a). The Netherland East Indies.
EA
A trade controversy existing sincot May l934 was
settled on April 9 with the signing of a provisional trade
WE
agreement between Japan and the Netherland East Indies.
According to Domei, the principal provision of the agreement
is that 25% of the imports into the Netherland Indies from
Japan may be handled by Japanese importers and merchants on
the condition that Japan shall purchase Java sugar on a
preferential basis.
(e). International.
The OFFICIAL GAZETTE of April 22 published the Japanese
ratification of the agreement on the control of opium sales
signed
* Despatches No. 2370 of April 16, and No. 2400 of April 30,1937

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
signed at Bangkok nn November 27, 1931, by the representa-
tives of the British, French, Indian, Japanese, Netherland,
Portuguese, and Siamese Governments. It was ratified by
the Emperor of Japan on December 2, 1935.
(f). France.
On April 15 the Japanese Foreign Office exchanged
notes with the French Ambassador for the relinquishment of
the perpetual leaseholds of French nationals in Japan. The
notes were of the same purport as those exchanged with the
British Embassy and with the American Embassy on March 25,
1937.*
(g). Switzerland.
The Swiss Minister to Japan exchanged notes on April 15
with the Japanese Foreign Office, similar to those exchanged
by the French Ambassador and the Foreign Office, settling
the perpetual leasehold question between the Swiss and
Japanese Governments.
(h). Argentina.
Japanese newspapers reported that at the request of
the Foreign Office the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry
had decided to send an economic mission to Argentina for
the promotion of trade between the two countrics.
(i). Chile.
A Chilean Economic Mission to Japan, under the chairman-
ship of Senator Max Errazuriz, arrived at Yokohama on April 15,
the visit having been proposed two years before by the
Japanese Foreign Office and the Japan Chamber of Commerce
and Industry.** Two days after its arrival the Mission was
handed a list of twelve proposals for improving and ex-
pediting trade between the two countries. These proposals
urged
Embassy's Monthly Report for Maroh, Section I(a).
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2378 of April 29, 1937.

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
urged that the Chilean Government's import restrictions
hindering Japanese trade with Chile be eased, that exchange
requirements be simplified; that the "most-favored-nation"
treatment be guaranteed, and that "Manchukuo" be given the
same treatment with respect to exchange as that given Japan.
In response to these proposals, at a second conference held
on April 20 the Chilean Mission presented eleven counter-
proposals, asking that branch offices of industrial and
commercial concerns be established in both countries, that
bank facilities and steamship service be improved, that
Japanese investments in Chile be increased, and that tariff
increases in curtailment of trade be avoided. Apparently
nothing definite hed been decided at the end of the month
concernin the action taken on these proposals and counter-
proposals.
(j). Portugal.
WE
According to Domei of April 8, the Japanese Foreign
Office has decided to open negotiations with the Portuguese
TD
Government for the conclusion of a new commercial treaty
to take the place of the treaty which expired on March 31,
1935.
(k). Changes in the Japanese Foreign Service.
The followine shifts in the Japanese Foreign Service
were announced during the month: Mr. Eiji Amau, the Foreign
Office spokesman, was appointed Minister to Switzerland,
and Mr. Tatsuo Kawai, Consul General at Shanghai, was ap-
pointed to suceed him; Mr. Shigeru Kuriyama, Chief of the
Treaty Bureau of the Foreign Office, was appointed Minister
to Sweden; Mr. Yakichiro Suma, Consul General in Nanking,
was appointed Counselor of the Japanese Embassy at Washington;
Mr. Morito Morishima, Consul General at Harbin, was appointed
Counselor

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
Counselor of Embassy at Peiping; Yr. Suemasa Okamoto, Chier
of the American Bureau of the Foreign Ofrice, was appointed
Consul General at Shanghai; and Mr. Shinrokyuro Hidaka,
Chief of the Bureau of Protocol & Personnel of the Foreign
Office, was appointed Counselor of Embassy at Nanking.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet' and the Diet Elections.
Following the dissolution of the Diet on March 3l, the
Cabinet on April l0 issued an eight-point statement of policy,
general in tone to the point of vagueness, urging improve-
ment in education end culture, administration, diplomacy,
armaments, livine, industry, rural conditions, and taxes.*
Although the Minseito, the Seiyukai, and the Shakai Taishuto
vigorously attacked the Government in the election campaign,**
they failed to agree upon a concrete platform of opposition
likely to injure the Government, whose position was not
greatly weakened as a result of the election.***
The
election, held on April 30, broucht a decrease in the Min-
seito and the Seiyukai seats and an increase in the repre-
sentation of the Shakai Taishuto, of the independents, and
of the small parties. This election left no doubt that the
electorate disapproved of the non-party Cabinet, yet it gave
no indication that this Cabinet or one similar to it could
not continue to function in contravention of parliamentary
politics, which have been in desuetude since l932.
It is significant to note that a phonograph record made
hy Mr. Yukio Ozaki, veteran upholder of parliamentary politics,
for use in the election campaign was banned on April 19
allegedly because a passage in it (undisclosed to the press)
was judged by the Government to be harmful to the public mind.
1294/122
According
*
Embassy's telegram No. 107 of April 10, 1937.
1729
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2367 of April 16, 1937,
***
Embassy's despatch No. 2402 of May 1, 1937
737

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
According to present indication s, the special session
of the Diet will be convened in August.
(b). The Army.
In a speech made before 60o Army officers on April 8
General Sugiyama, the War Minister, said that the Army had
become the pilot and not simply the "propulsive force" of
the nation's efforts to advance its fortunes. The War
Minister went on to state that the Japanese people lacked
proper appreciation of the gravity of the present inter-
national situation and also lacked national spirit.
(c). Political Parties.
Little or no progress was made in the Cabinet's efforts
to form a pro-Government political party. Prince Konoye's
apparent reluctance to head a new political party constituted
an obstacle to the Government's plan. Finance Minister Yuki
and Mr. Hirota, recent Premier, were mentioned by the press
as possible choices for the presidency of the new party.
In any case, little can be expected in the immediate future
from any pro-Government party which may .be formed.
(d). Proposed Government Planning Board.
The Government was reported to have approved the
establishment of a Planning Board (Kikakucho), which is to
incorporate the Cabinet Inquiry Bureau created in May. 1935,
and to assume more comprehensive functions. It appeared
that the proposed Board would be designed for a planned
economy and that in a way it would be a manifestation of
Premier'Hayashi's conviction that the now existing political
institutions of Japan are inadequate for the governmental
leadership necessary to the nation at the present time.
2
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V.

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
At a bankers' luncheon on April 20 Mr. Yuki, the
Finance Minister, delivered an address in which he said
that he was in favor of additional legal restriction of
importation of certain unnamed commodities outside the
essential raw materials class, that bank investing should
be in accord with Government planning, that bankers should
consider the importance of making investments in China, and
that Manchuria was increasingly depedent on Japanese financing.
He added that for cooperation with foreign countries and for
arriving at a more complete understanding in harmony with
Japan's financial and economic policy, Japan should parti-
cipate il: any international conference which might be held.*
The Japanese Government decided to resume shipments of
gold to the United States and to ship 15,0oo kilograms in
the immediate future. The first shipment, amounting to
4,500 kilograms, left Kobe on April 21.**
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Foreign Trade.
Japanese exports during April amounted to ¥263,028,000
and imports into Japan amounted to ¥336,681,000 as compared
with March exports of ¥276,006,000 and imports of ¥400,568,000.
There was thus an unfavorable balance of trade of ¥73,653,000
as compared with an unfavorable balance for March of y124,562,000
An Imperial Ordinance was promulgated on April 15 pro-
EA
viding for the suspension of import duties on iron and steel
to be effective from that date and to remain in force until
March 31, 1938. It is understood that the reason for this
measure is the present shortage of iron and steel in Japan
and the alleged necessity of replenishing military and naval
armaments.
(b).
*
Embassy's telegram No. 116 of April 21, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 114 of April 20, 1937.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
(b). Financial Trends.
The stock market was active in spite of the political
uncertainty over the Diet election and the prices of shares
appreciated considerably during the month. Commodity prices
continued to increase. The Bank of Japan's wholesale price
index for the month was 248, the highest for any month since
l925. Due partly to the export of gold above mentioned, the
yen showed a slight appreciation, the average yen rate of
the Yokohama Specie Bank being $0.28608 as compared with
$0.285 for March.
VII: ACTIVTTTES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR.
The ASAiI of April 1 reported that the Home Ministry
was preparing a bill to be introduced in the next Diet
session providing for the restriction of working hours
uniformly to twelve lours a day, the primary object of the
measure beinf the improvement of national health.
It was stated by the press that the Home Ministry had
decided to ban parades or any sort of demonstrations by
labor unions on May Day.
There was a considerable anount of labor unrest during
April owing to the increase in the cost of living. Labor's
claims for higher wages were recognized in several instances,
a number of disputes being settled on the basis of a raise
of wages ranging from 8% to 15%. At the same time a number
of companies raised wages voluntarily to ward off expected
disputes.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING APRIL, 1937.
No.
Date
Subject
2337
April 1
Japan's Search for Oil.
2339
April 1
Perpetual Leaseholds.
2339
April 1
Diet Proceedings from March 17 to 31, 1937.
2340
April 1
Foreign Policies of Mr. Sato, Foreign Minister.
2341
April 1
Repression of Trade in White Women.
2342
April 1
Address Made by the Ambassador.
2343
April 1
Naval Disarmament.
2344
April 2
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2345
April 2
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2346
April 2
Diet Interpellations of Mr. Yukio Ozaki.
2347
April 2
American Oil Interests in Japan.
2348
April 2
Salmon Fisheries.
2349
April 2
Salaries of Contincent Employees.
2350
April 2
An Appraisal of the Diet Dissolution.
2351
April 2
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2352
April 2
Transfer of Mr. Dickover.
2353
April 9
Financial Annual for the Department.
2354
April 13
Chief Clerk Duncan J. Laing.
2355
April 13
Tokyo-Peiping Fouch Service.
2356
April 13
American-Japanese Relations.
2357
April 13
Gray Code Book.
2358
April 14
Farnsworth Letters Rogatory.
2359
April 14
Policies of the Hayashi Cabinet.
2360
April 14
Wreck of the FIJIAN.
2361
April 15
Funds for Upkeep of the Embassy Garden.
2362
April 15
New London, Texas, Disaster, Letter of Sympathy
2363
April 15
Address Made by the Ambassador.
2364
April 16
New Party Movement in Japan.
2365

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
NO.
Date
Subject
2365
April 16
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2366
April 16
Transfer of Mr. Dickover.
2367
April 16
Japanese Election Campaign to April 16, 1937.
2368
April 16
Monthly Report for March.
2369
April 16
Donation for Disaster at New London, Texas.
2370
April 16
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2371
April 16
Anglo-Japanese Relations.
2372
April 17
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2373
April 19
Sixth Quarter Examination of Mr. Warner.
2374
April 19
Request for Photographs.
2375
April 19
Fifth Quarter Examination of Mr. Emmerson.
2376
pril 21
Exchange of Government Publications.
2377
April 21
Seizure of Smoking Opium Ex. S.S. ASAMA MARU.
2378
April 29
Chilean Economic Mission to Japan.
2379
April 22
Fisheries.
2380
April 24
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
2381
April 26
Bond, Oath, and Affidevit of Mr. Andrews.
2382
April 28
Salary Increase for Mr. May and Miss Collins.
2383
April 28
Bond, Oath and Affidavit of Mr. Warner.
2384
April 28
Perpetual Leaseholds.
2385
April 28
Perpetual Leaseholds.
2386
April 29
Kadono Economic Mission to the United States.
2387
April 30
Oath of Office of Mr. E. R. Dickover.
2388
April 30
Is Japan Endeavoring to Revive the System
of "Spheres of Influence" in China?
2389
April 30
Finance Minister's Speech of April 20.
2390
April 30
Foreign Minister Sato's Basic Economic Views.
2391
April 30
Further Trade Restrictions in Japan and
Mr. Sato's Foreign Trade Policies.
2392
April 30
Rubber Vacuum Cleaner Belts.
2394
April 30
Application of the Automobile Industry Law.
2395
April 30
Proposed Japanese Planning Board.
2396
April 30
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2400
April 30
Soviet-Japanese Relations.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING APRIL, 1937.
No. Date
Subject
102
April 1, 4 p. m.
Audience for High Commissioner McNutt.
103
April 1, 5 p. m.
From Commercial Attaché for Commerce.
104
April 1, 6 p. m.
Japanese Note regarding Gun Calibers.
105
April 5, 11 a. m.
Requisition for Funds.
106
April 10, noon
Japanese Cotton Agreement with Burma.
107
April 10, 9 p. m.
Outline of Cabinet's Policies.
108
April 12, 4 p. m.
Settlement of Keelung Incident.
109
April 15, 5 p. m.
Visits of British Naval Vessels to
Japanese Ports.
110, April 16, noon
Keelung Incident.
111
April 17, 1l a. m. Brazilian-Japanese Cotton Agreement;
Indian-Japanese Cotton Agreement.
112
April 17, noon
From Commercial Attaché for Commerce.
113
April 20, noon
Visits of British Naval Vessels to
Japanese Ports.
114
April 20, 4 p. m.
Shipments of Gold to the United States.
115
April 21, 5 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Manchuria.
116
April 21, 6 p. m.
Address of Finance Minister Yuki.
117
April 23, noon.
American Oil Interests in Manchuria.
118
April 23, 3 p. m.
Cipher Tables.
119
April 23, 4 p. m.
Kadonc Economic Mission to United States
120
April 28, 11 a. m.
Visit of U.S.S. GOLD STAR:to Japan.
121
April 30, 7 p. m.
Soviet-Japanese Relations.

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.90)
LECKL-ADVISER
OFFICE OF THE AUYSES ON
INTERNATON EO A1 02
UL30 1937
OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JUL 26 1937
.9.50
No. 2662
AMERICAN E
七1
Tokyo, June
JE
SUBJECT: REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF MAY, 1937.
A-CC
COPIES SENT TO
894.0
UL21937
eoy
U.V.1. AND M.LD.
THE AMEMICAN LPUDLIUS
ASSISTANT SECRETAR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
STAT
Fur
1n U3 A
894.00
REDG DESK
1937 UN 28
FILE-WH
TGraeu'g
a. indecady
P.R.
PAR FASTLHN ALLLIRS
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
1/ herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in
AUG
FILFD
Japan for the month of May, 1937.
Respectfully yours,
Nosath.
Joseph C. Grew
1/ Report No. 128
Copy to Eabassy, Peiping
Embassy, Nanking
Embassy, Moscow
Consulate General, Shanghai
Comsulate General, Mukden
Comsulate General, Harbin
F/G

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.98)
NO. 128
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MOITH OF MAY, 1937
U

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a) Statements of the Minister for Foreign
Affairs Concerning American-Japanese
Relations.
1
(b) American Oil Interests.
1, 2
II.
RELATIONS WIT! OTHER COUITRIES:
(a) China.
2,3,4,5
(b) Soviet Russia.
5,6
(c) Great Britain.
6,7, 8
(a) International.
8
(e) Naval Question.
9
(f) Germany..
9
(g) "Manchukuo".
9
(h) Brazil.
9, 10
(i) Chile.
10
(j) Mexico.
10
(k) Latin America.
10
(1) Siam.
11
(m) Poland.
11
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a) The Cabinet and the Political Parties....
11, 12
(b) The Army.
12, 13
(c) The Navy.
13
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION: Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNIENT FINANCE:
14
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Foreign Trade.
14
(b) Financial Trends.
15
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR:
15
X. MISCELLANEOUS: Nothing to report.

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.97)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). Statements of the Minister for Foreign Affaira
EU
Concerning American-Japanese Relations.
It was reported by the NICHI NICHI of May 4 that Mr.
Sato, the Minister for Foreign Affairs intended, if possible,
to conclude a Pacific non-aggression pact, either between the
United States and Japan or between the United States, Great
Britain and Japan, the purposes of which would be to give
concrete expression to Japan's peaceful intentions and to
check naval competition.* In a statement issued to the
foreign press correspondents on May 6, Mr. Sato admitted that
he had discussed casually with a reporter of the NICHI NICHI
the question of a non-aggression pact with the United States
but added that he had as yet no concrete plan, had made no
approach to the United States, and did not intend to put
forward the idea.** In the same prepared statement Mr. Sato
stated that there was no vexing issue, political or otherwise,
between the United States and Japan, and that the friendship
between the two nations was destined to grow with the years.
At a conference of prefectural governors on May 17 the
Minister for Foreign Affairs said that relations with the
United States were satisfactory on the whole; that the ex-
pansion of Japanese foreign trade had brought about diffi-
culties with the United States which had been gradually
settled by mutual understanding; and that he hoped that Japan
and the United States, whose economic relations were comple-
mentary, would continue to collaborate in the task of pre-
serving peace in the Pacific.***
(b). American Oil Interests.
On May 29 the foreign oil companies (the Standard Vacuum
Oil Company and the Rising Sun Petroleum Company) received
from
*
Embassy's telegram No. 124 of May 4, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 126 of May 7, and despatch No. 2410
of May 11, 1937.
*卓*
Embassy.'s telegram No. 131 of May 7, and despatch No. 2443
ofMav281932

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
from the Foreign Office a fairly satisfactory aide memoire
regarding the Korean oil quota problem and referred the
matter to their head offices in New York and London, res-
pectively.* This development, together with the recent
appointment as Minister of Commerce and Industry of Mr.
Yoshino, whos: attitude as Vice Minister toward the diffi-
culties being experienced by the foreign oil companies was
helpful, increases prospects of a practical adjustment of
the problem being found.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTIER COUNTRIES.
(a). China.
793.9
There was observed during the month a stiffening in
Japan's attitude toward China which had apparently become
more conciliatory during previous months.** It will be
recalled that the reorientation of policy toward China
reportedly decided upon by the Japanese Government embraces
a desire to maintain a strong position on the Asiatic main-
land through friendship and economic cooperation with China
insteed of by actual political control of that country.
However, this conciliatory program net with setbacks during
May and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the chief pro-
ponent of the policy. found it necessary to issue statements
showing a firmer stand on the part of Japan. Other Japanese
officials made public statements of like tenor.
Sino-Japanese relations, which had appeared to be
improving during recent months, were marred by a number of
developments:. There was a recurrence of anti-Japanese
agitation in North China and there occurred several incidents
which were said to have caused serious concern to the
Japanese authorities. At Swatow on liay 22 Chinese police
arrested
*
Embassy's telegram No. 142 of June 1, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatches No. 24l9 of May 14, and No. 2443
of May 28, 1937.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
arrested and detained for a short time a Japanese consular
policeman. Although a relatively minor incident, the
Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs admitted that a grave
view might possibly have to be taken concerning it.* As a
result of the hostilities between Inner Mongolians and
Chinese in East Suiyuan during the autumn of l936, a series
of clashes reportedly occurred between border guards of
"Manchukuo" and China. Domei reported that owing to the
careful handlins of the situation by the local authorities
the situation arising from these skirmishes would be settled
without further complications. Japanese official circles
appeared to be anxious over the presence at Tsingtao of
4,5oo Chinese customs guards allegedly in violation of
treaty stipulations. These guards were reported to be
heavily armed and to have constructed fortifications in
the suburbs of Tsingtao. According to the ASAHI of May 19,
the Japanese Government filed a strong protest in this
matter with the Chinese authorities through the Japanese
Consul General at Tsingtao. Domci of May 22 interpreted
the prohibition by the Nankine Government of the proposed
merger of the Liukiane coal nine in East Hopei with the
Taichi Kungszu (a Japanese concern) as a definite indication
of China's unwillingncss to promote cconomic rapprochement
with Japan.
That Mr. Sato's vicws had undergone some change was
indicated by statements contained in his speech of May 17
delivered beforc the prefectural governors in Tokyo and in
that of May 24 at & banquet of thc Tokyo Free Trade Associa-
tion. On thc former occasion he said that anti-Japancse
sentiment was being exploited by the Nanking Government,
which
*
Embassy's telegram No. 137 of May 26, 1937.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
which was urging internal harmony for the particular purpose
of resisting foreign aggression; that it must be made clear
that Japan's designs in China are not aggressive; and that
the Japanese Government was seeking greater harmony through
personal contact and through cultural and economic cooperation.
In the second speech the Minister for Foreign Affairs
made the statement, apropos of Japan's foreign policy in
general, that war is never profitable but that once the
honor and prestige of Japan are injured the Japanese must
be willing to fight. He added that some people might be of
the opinion that he would yield to a foreign country even
if the honor and prestige of Japan were injured but that
he only wished to follow "the normal path of diplomacy until
the last moment, if the worst is to come." *
I1 a speech before the prefectural governors on May 19
General Sugiyama, the War Minister, expressed apprehension
over Chinese policies toward Japan in the following state-
ment: "As for China, we find that it is concentrating on
centralization and replenishment of armaments and other
defensive undertakings based on anti-Japanese slogans. As
a result, it has come to overestimate its national strength,
and this in turn has served to encourege the anti-Japanese
sentiments of its people. We fcar that China may ultimately
resort to sundry steps to obstruct Japan's peaceful advance
at its very foundation."
On May 18 Admiral Rukuzo Suiyama, Chief of Staff of the
Third Fleet, told newspaper correspondents that although the
open movement against Japan had been held in check in Shanghai
and Nanking, underground anti-Japanese activities had been
vigorously carried on in South China. Also,he stated that
China
* Embassy's despatch No. 2443 of May 28, 1937.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
China had adopted the policy of making approaches to
powerful countries in order to check Japan and expressed
regret that there were "no signs of Sino-Japanese relations
turning for the better".
Aside from the developments and statements outlined
above, certain definite stumbling blocks continued to com-
plicate Sino-Japanese relations. After the return to Japan
of Mr. Kawagoe, Japanese Ambassador to China, a meeting
was held of representatives of the Foreign Office and the
War and Navy Ministries to discuss the proposed "new deal
for China". According to newspaper versions of the results
of the discussion, the "new deal" will provide for Japan's
recognition of China's increasing strength and unity but
will contemplate neither the relinquishment by Japan of its
special position in North China nor the immediate abolition
of the East Hopei Autonomous Régime. Since the abolition of
the East Hopei Autonomous Régime and the extension of the
Nanking Government's control over North China appear to be
the principal desiderata of the Chinese, it would not seem
that the proposed "new deal for China" will be acceptable to
that country as a basis for further negotiations.*
(b). Soviet Russia.
E'1
Little of interest occurred in the relations between
761.94
Japan and Soviet Russia.** The conversations held by the
Minister for Foreign Affairs and Mr. Yureneff, the Soviet
Ambassador to Japan, apparently resulted in no scttlement of
pending issues. It is possible that the firm stand taken by
the Soviet Union against the German-Japanese anti-Comintern
agreement was the snag which impeded the informal negotia-
tions between Mr. Sato and Mr. Yureneff. Before his departure
on
*
Embassy's despatch No. 24l9 of May 14, 1937.
**
Embessy's despatch No. 2426 of May 14, 1937.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
on May 15 from Tokyo to Moscow en route to his new post at
Berlin, Mr. Yureneff issued a statement to the press in which
he characterized relations between the two countries as
"unstable" but not bad, but he added that there was no
question whicn could not be solved amicably. While regretting
that his conversations with Mr. Sato had not brought about a
solution of pending problems, Mr. Yureneff expressed belief
that a solution could be found by thorough discussion of the
existing issues, the only requirement being that each nation
demonstrate "sincerity".*
Shortly after the issuance of the Soviet Ambassador's
statement the Government of the U.S.S.R. announced that it
intended to abrogate the agreement of September 4, 1934,
between Soviet Russia and "Manchukuo" governing the frontiers
of the two states formed by the Amur and Ussuri rivers.
Several border incidents occurred, all of them similar
in character to the incidents which have been reported during
the last few years and none of them of serious proportions.
In his speech before the prefectural governors on May 17,
Mr. Sato stressed Japan's efforts to eliminate all unnecessary
friction and to solve pending issues with Soviet Russia;
stated that Soviet officials had maltreated Japanese residents
and officials and obstructed Japanese shipping, admitting
that complaints of similar action by Japanese officials had
also been made; and asked the prefectural governors to be
careful to prevent such occurrences in the future, inasmuch
as he (Sato) had asked the Soviet Government to do so.
El1
(c). Great Britain.
In his statement on foreign policy read to foreign news-
741.94
paper correspondents on May 6, the Minister for Foreign
Affairs
* Embassy's despatch No. 2445 of May 29, 1937.

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
Affairs discussed Anglo-Japanese relations first, indicating
that the Japanese Foreign Office now considers those relations
of primary importance. Mr. Sato stated that Anglo-Japanese
relations had improved owing to the recent settlement of
certain contentious questions and that he hoped to strengthen
the traditional Anglo-Japanese friendship.* In reply to a
question put by a correspondent, Mr. Sato said that the
Anglo-Japanese conversations then proceeding had so far
consisted only of a very general exchange of views and that
it was premature to believe that anything like an arrange-
ment had been reached. He denied that spheres of influence
in China were being discussed in these conversations but
admitted that the relations of Great Britain and Japan with
China were being discussed.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs made similar remarks
concerning Anglo-Japanese relations in his speech to the
prefectural governors in Tokyo on May 17. He stated that
friendship with Great Britain was highly desirable; that a
number of problems with regard to China and with regard to
trade required solution; that the settlement of the Keelung
Incident and of the perpetual lease question had eased the
atmosphere; and that the visit of Prince and Princess Chichibu
to London was adding to Anglo-Japanese friendship.**
Sir Robert Clive, retiring British Ambassador, delivered
a speech at a banquet given him by the Japan-British Society
in Tokyo on the evening of May 6 in which he said that the
last three years represented a period: of marking time in
Anglo-Japanese relations, that there was a desire on both
sides to see a closer understanding between the two countries,
and that with patience this was sure to come. The reference
to
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2410 of May 11, 1937.
**
Embassy's Jespatch No. 2443 of May 28, 1937.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
to "patience" may have been intended as an indication that
notwithstanding the present efforts of the Japanese Government
to improve relations with Great Britain, the British Govern-
ment has no intention of being rushed into any new arrange-
ment without a quid pro quo.* It is of interest to add that
in a frank manner the British Ambassador drew attention to
the spy mania prevailing in Japan and also to the inquisition
which travellers are put through upon their arrival at
Japanese ports.
Sir Robert Clive left Japan for his new post at Brussels
on May 21.
Fll
(a). International.
The statement made by Prime Minister Joseph Lyons of
700.0011
Australia at the opening meeting of the British Empire
Conference in London on May 14, that Australia would welcome
a non-aggression pact among thc countries of the Pacific
conceived in the spirit of the League of Nations Covenant,
received considerable publicity in Japan. The reaction to
the proposal was one of reticence on the part of Government
officials and of suspicion on the part of the press.** It
appeared that although Japan was not fundamentally opposed
to the idea, this country felt that the time was not ripe for
consideration of such a pact. Furthermore, it was stated by
the vernacular press that Japan would be most reluctant to
discuss certain issues of a controversial nature which would
undoubtedly have to be discussed in any conference that might
be held for the conclusion of a Pacific non-aggression treaty.
The Japanese press was unanimous in criticizing Prime Minister
Lyon's suggestion adversely.
(e).
* Embassy's despatch No. 24ll of May 14, 1937.
**Embassy's despatch No. 2444 of May 28, 1937.

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
(e). The Naval Question.
Mr. Hugh Byas, Tokyo correspondent of the NEw YORK
TIMES, had an interview in the latter part of the month
with Admiral Yonai, the Navy Minister, who definitely denied
current press reports that Japan:was building or would build
super battleships carrying guns larger than sixteen inches
in caliber.*
(f). Germany.
According to a Domei despatch from Hsinking dated
May 2l, a new agreement was signed in Berlin on that day
extending by three years the "Manchukuo"-German Trade Agree-
ment, which was signed on April 30, 1936, and which was due
to expire at the end of May 1937.
(g). "Manchukuo".
On May 8 the "Manchukuo" Government announced the follow-
ing reform of its administrative machinery: the Legislative
and Supervisory Councils are to be done away with; the six
Ministries - Foreign Affairs, War, Civil Affairs, Finance,
Industry, and Mongol Affairs - are to be abolished. In the
future the Premier will be the only State Minister, the
present Ministries being directly under his supervision,
and in place of the six Ministries to be abolished, Ministries
for Public Peace, Civil Welfare, General Industry, and
Economic Affairs will be established.
9A
(h). Brazil.
It will be remembered that in February of this year the
Japanese were reluctant to make further exports of steel
1..
rails to Brazil on account of a shortage in Japan.** The
JAPAN TIMES of May 8 reported that on the previous day at a
meeting of the Japan-Brazilian Enterprise Association
it had been decided that steel
rails
*
Embassy's telegram No. 133 of May 20, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2288 of February 27, 1937.

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.97)
- 10-
rails to the value of one million yen already ordered by
Brazil would be exported as scheduled by the Mitsui and
Mitsubishi interests, but that the remaining orders for
steel manufactures valued at ten million yen would be
declined by the Japanese concerns for the time being.
(i). Chile.
At a final conference between the members of the
Chilean Economic Mission to Japan and representatives of
UF
the Japanese Federation of Exporters Associations for Latin
America held at Osaka on May 8, sixteen resolutions were
approved by both sides for presentation to their respective
Governments. A list of these resolutions, as published in
the OSAKA MAINICHI of May 9, was transmitted to the Depart-
ment with the Embassy's despatch No. 2424 of May 14, 1937.
(j). Mexico.
The vernacular press reported that the Japan Marine
Products Company had decided to establish a fishery company
under joint investment by and management of Japanese and
Mexican capitalists and that negotiations to this end
would be started upon the forthcoming arrival in Japan of
Mexicans interested in the enterprise.
(k). Latin America.
In reply to an inquiry of the Department of Commerce
and Industry regarding the desirability of making a survey
of overseas markets in the South Seas, the Near East, Africa,
and Central and South America, the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce
and Industry recommended that the Government confine its
investigations to Central and South America in view of the
limited appropriation for this project.*
(1).
* Embassy's despatch No. 2425 of May 14, 1937.

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
(1). Siam.
Upon his arrival in Japan on May 9 Mr. Ishii, Japanese
Minister to Siam, stated in a press interview that the
Siamese had great admiration for Japan but he warned his
countrymen against attempts to force friendship on the
Siamese people without giving sympathetic consideration
to Siam's national aspirations.
(m). Poland.
According to a Domei despatch from Seoul, an official
of the Polish Consulate General in Shanghai reported to the
Seoul police on May 15 that while on a train en route to
Tokyo, where he was proceeding to confer with the authorities
of the Polish Legation, he had been robbed of important
documents.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a). The Cabinet and the Political Parties.
The Japanese press in general interpreted the results
of the Diet election of April 30 as a defeat for the Hayashi
Cabinet, a victory for the political parties.* Since there
were no clear-cut issues offered by either of the major
political parties, the Seiyukai and the Minseito, the voters
elected much the same class of men to the Diet as those who
had been members when the House was dissolved on March 31,
1937.**
On May 3 the Cabinet issued a statement to the effect
that the Lower House had been dissolved on March 31 because
regeneration of parliamentary government was the cornerstone
of governmental reform; that the Government wanted the newly-
elected Diet members to be guided by a spirit of self-sacrifice
in
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2428 of May 15, and Embassy's
Monthly Political Report for April, Section III (a).
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2423 of May 14, 1937.

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
in developing the constitutional system peculiar to Japan;
that the people shared the Government's desire in this respect;
and that the Government would continue on its way "confident
of the nation's support of the Government's earnest desire
for perfect cooperation with the people."*
Premier Hayashi issued a statement to the effect that
the election returns were not & surprise to the Government
and that the Government had had no intention of attempting
to win the election.
Opposition to the Government by the Seiyukai, the Min-
seito, and the Shakai Taishuto increased during the month,
leaders of these parties issuing statements which agaailed
the policies of the Hayashi Cabinet and particularly its
high-handed attitude toward the parties. The political
parties were particularly irate over General Hayashi's
failure to include in his Cabinet a few Ministers taken
from the parties. Finally on May 3l the Hayashi Cabinet
resigned en bloc. The decision of the Cabinet to resign
came soon after the issuance of a vigorous public statement
by Prince Konoe that Premier Hayashi should have chosen some
Ministers from the political parties immediately after the
election of April 30.**
Little or no progress seened to have been made during
the month toward the establishment of the proposed new
political party, reactionary in character and designed to
support thc Hayashi Cabinet or similar non-party cabinets
that might be formed in the future.
(b), The Army.
According to the CHUGAI of May 17, the new policy of
War Minister Sugiyama and Vice War Minister Umezu is "action
before
Embassy's telegram No. 122 of May 3, 1937.
Embassy's telegram No. 14l of May 31, 1937.

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
before words" and General Sugiyama recently stated: "No
matter how clamorously we talk, the talking will not only
be ineffective but will do harm instead of good. We will
just go ahead and work things out while the public is
unaware". This newspaper estimated that the Army's
budgetary demands for the fiscal year 1938-39 would amount
to Yen 950,000,000 as compared with the Army's appropriations
of Yen 720,000,000 for the fiscal year 1937-38.
(c). The Navy.
A pamphlet entitled the "Non-Treaty Era and Our Navy"
was issued by the Navy Ministry on May 27, the anniversary
of Admiral Togo's victory over the Russian Fleet in the
Battle of the Japan Sea. The purpose of this pamphlet, as
of previous Navy pamphlets, would seem to be to impress upon
the people of Japan the necessity for continued and strenuous
efforts to keep the Navy up to the requirements of national
defense. Germany and Italy are pointed to in the pamphlet
as perfect examples of the grim determination and military
preparedness necessary to Japan for the maintenance of its
power as the "stabilizing influence" in East Asia. It is even
stated that "Italy, foreseeing the inability of the League
and the insufficient power of France and Great Britain,
carried out her long cherished desire to annex Ethiopia."
The pamphlet goes on to remark that various European
countries and the United States have been carrying out an
aggressive economic advance in East Asia, especially in the
development and extension of air routes. In addition, the
document refers to the strengthening by the United States
of its defense works in the Pacific, especially in Hawaii,
and asserts that the conclusion to be drawn from these
activities is that they "must be considered as preparations
for operations in the Pacific." It is also stated that the
Japanese

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
Japanese fleet must be able to repulse any attempt to
disturb the tranquillity of East Asia and able also to
defeat any fleet which might invade the Western Pacific.*
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Observers of the financial situation believed that the
foreign exchange control law might be revised so as to
establish more rigid control over remittances for other
than essential import trade requirements, for the munitions
industry and allied industries, and for the acquisition.
and withdrawal of Japanese securities issued abroad. The
Finance Ministry was reportedly concerned over the adverse
visible trade balance and it was stated that this Department
was preparing other measures for the further restriction of
imports to offset the unfavorable trade balance which is
inevitable, despite heavy exports of gold.*
VI.
GENERAL EC ONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a).
Foreign Trade.
Japan's exports for May amounted to Yen 262,248,000
while imports into Japan amounted to Yen 420,074,000, as
compared with April exports of Yen 263,028,000 and imports
of Yen 336,681,000. Hence there was an unusually large
unfavorable balance of trade of Yen 157,826,000, as compared
with an unfavorable balance for March of only Yen 73,653,000.
Thus far this year imports are 31.25 per cent greater
than for the corresponding period of l936, and exports have
increased by 23.47 per cent.**
(b).
Embassy's telegram No. 138 of May 28, 1937.
**
Data furnished by the Commercial Attaché.
●

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.98)
- 15-
(b). Financial Trends.
The stock and bond markets were quiet throughout the
month, reflecting uncertainty over the internal political
situation and also over Sino-Japanese relations. The money
market was easy. Commodity prices, which had been steadily
advancing since November 1936, showed a decline of 2.8% from
the month of April. The prices of rice, tea, fertilizera
and soda increased owing partly to seasonal faotors but the
prices of copper, lead, raw rubber, iron, imported lumber,
textiles, and cereals decreased as the result of low prices
abroad and uncertainty in the political situation.*
The average yen rate of the Yokohama Specie Bank was
$0.2875 as compared with 0.28608 for April.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FCREIGN COMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
Ix.
LABOR.
A number of labor disputes arose during the month and
there appeared to be a tendency on the part of both employers
and the Government to listen sympathetically to the demands
of the strikers. In one case, at least, wages were increased
as a result of labor's demands: the Oji Electric Railway
Company granted a second 5% wage increase to conductors and
motormen employed by the Company.
It was reported that the Government would give official
recognition to the demands by Japanese workers for increased
pay on account of higher living costs but that vigorous
measures would be taken against any political manipulations
that might appear in labor disputes.
X. MISCELLANEOUS. Nothing to report.
* Information furnished by the Commercial Attaché.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING MAY, 1937.
No.
Pnte
Subject
2393
May 1
Visit to Japan of Miss Helen Keller.
2399
May 1
Keelung Incident.
2398
May 1
Cipher Tables.
2399
May 1
Diplomatic Visa Report..
2401
May 1
Publications for the Department.
2402
May 1
First Report on Japanese Elections.
2403
May 6
Laws Passed by the 7Oth Diet.
2404
May 8
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2405
May 10
Exclusion of American Magazines.
2406
May 10
Bangkok Narcotic Convention.
2407
May 10
"Spheres of Influence" in China.
2408
May 11
German-Japanese Agreement.
2409
May 11
Translation of Japanese Tax Laws.
2410
May 11
Foreign Policies of Mr. Sato, Foreign Minister.
2411
May 14
British Ambassador's Address.
2412
May 12
Repatriation of Shipwrecked Crew of FIJIAN.
2413
May 13
Association of Military Surgeons.
2414
May 13
Japanese Foreign Service. List.
2415
May 13
Sixth Quarter Examination of Mr. Yuni.
2416
May 13
Sixth Quarter Examination of Mr. Schmidt.
2417
May 13
Sixth Quarter Examination of Mr. Johansen.
2418
May 13
Japanese Press Comment on Textile Conference.
2419
May 14
Japan's Policy Toward China.
2420
May 14
Electric Light Bulbs.
2421
May
14
Aero-Medical Association of the United States.
2422
May 14
Monthly Political Report for April.
2423
May 14
New Party Movement in Japan.
2424
May 14
Chilean Economic Mission to Japan.
2425
May 14
Japanese Exports to Central and South America.
2426

=== Page 361 === (confidence 1.00)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
2426
May 14
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2427
May 15
Japanese Navy Pamphlet.
2428
May 15
Japanese Election April 30.
2429
May 15
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2430
May 17
Request of the Japan Cotton Spinners Association
re Certification of Consular Invoices.
2431
May 17
Sixth Quarter Examination of Mr. Johnson.
2432
May 17
Sixth Quarter xamination of Mr. Caldwell.
2433
May 17
Sixth Quarter Examination of Mr. Richardson.
2434
May 21
Presentation of Astronomic Medal.
2435
May 21
Address at Unveiling of Nitobe Statue.
2436
May 22
Letters Rogatory in FERNCLIFF Case.
2437
May 22
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
2438
May 26
Repatriation of Shipwrecked Crew of S.S. FIJIAN.
2439
May 26
Financial and Economic Memorandum.
2440
May 27
Watchclock Dial Paper Forms.
2441
May 28
Telephone Operator.
2442
May 28
Attitude of Japanese Officials.
2443
May 28
Recent Speeches by Foreign Minister Sato.
2444
May 28
Japanese Reaction to Prime Minister Lyons's
Proposal for a Pacific Non-Aggression Pact.
2445
May 29
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
2446
May 29
Address Made by the Ambassador.

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAMS.SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING MAY, 1937.
No. Date
Subject
122
May 3, 6 p. m.
Diet-Cabinet Controversy.
123
May 4, 11 a. m.
Requisition for Funds.
124
May 4, noon.
Proposed Pacific Non-Aggression Pact.
125
May 7, 11 a. m.
Visit of American Asiatic Fleet to Japan.
126
May 7, noon.
Foreign Minister's Foreign Policies.
127
May 11, 6 p. m.
World Textile Conference.
128
May 12, 6 p. m.
Proposed Visit of Admiral Yarnell to Japan.
129
May 17, 4 p. in.
Count Makino's Statement on Foreign Policy.
130
May 17, 6 p. m.
Japenese Reaction to Premier Lyons's
Proposal for a Facific Non-Aggression Pact.
131 May 17, 8 p. m.
Premier Hayashi's Address Before Pre-
fectural Governors Conference.
132
May 19, 1l a. m. Proposed Visit of Admiral Yarnell to Japan.
133
May 20, 3 p. m.
Japanese Shipbuilding Program.
134
May 22, 10 a. m.
Arrival of Mr. Dooman.
135
May 24, 6 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Manchuria.
3
136
May 24, 7 p. m.
Korean Oil Quota Question.
17
137
May 26, 1 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Relations.
138
May 28, 6 p. m.
Japanese Exchange Control.
O
3
139
May 31, 9 a. m.
Japanese Exchange Control.
d
140
May 31, noon.
Byas' Despatch to NEW YORK TIMES on
Japanese Foreign telations.
三
141
May 31, 7 p.m.
Resignation of Hayashi Cabinet.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.90)
THE FOREIGN 
OF THE
E0
PARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE F  
AUG - 9 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
THE MONTH OF JUNE, 1937.
Y DIVISION
KE
G 10 1937
DIVISION OF
TD
9,
EUROPEAN AFFAINS
AUG41937
MENT OF STATE
STAI
50
DEPARTMENI OF SIATL
s7    R
894.00 P.R.
EE
EFARN 0F
3001e
DIVISION
t
De3x
8 Gunnge
FILE-WHB
Eren
The Honorable
J0.311937
Crfy in FE
9
The Secretary of State,
74
Washington.
sar:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to tranamit
AuG 11 1937
S
1/ /Aerewith the Embassy's monthly report on condition
in
FII
Japan for the month or June, 1937.
Respectfully yours
Emclosure:
Joseph C. Grew
1/ Report No. 129
Copy to Embassy, Peiping and Nanking
Embassy, Mosoow
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate Gemeral, Harbin
Consulate, Kobe
F/Q
Consulate, Osaka
Consulate, Deiren
In quimtuplicete to the Department

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.99)
NO. 129
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF JUNE, 1937.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXAND
SUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a) Negative Reply of Japanese Government to
the American Government's Inquiry Concern-
ing Japan's Willingness to Adopt the
l4-inch Gun Caliber as a Maximum...
1
(b)
Statement of the Minister for Foreign
Affairs Concerning Japan's Policy Toward
the United States
2
(c)
Alaska Salmon Fishing Situation.
2
(a)
Ordinance Governing Exports of Japanese
Cotton Textiles to the United States.
3
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) Great Britain
(1) Anglo-Japanese Negotiations Looking Toward
A Political and Commercial Agreement..... 3
(2) Boycott Against the Purchase of Japanese
Rayon Piece Goods Adopted by the Indian
Merchants Association of Yokohama........ 4
(b)
China.
5,6
(c)
Netherlands Indies.
6,7
(a)
"Manchukuo"
7
(e)
Brazil.
7
(f)
Australia..
8
(g)
Chile
8
(h)
Mexico
8
(i)
Latin America.
8,9
(j)
The Naval Question.
9
(k)
International.
9
(1) Soviet Russia.
9,10,11,12
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a) The Cabinet.
12,13,14
(b)
Political Parties.
.14, 15
(c)
The Diet.
15
(a)
The Army.
15, 16
(e) House of Peers.
16
IV.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
. 16, 17
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Foreign Trade..
17,18
(b) Shipping..
. 18, 19
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR:.
19,20
X. MISCELLANEOUS:.
20

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a). Negative Reply of the Japanese Government to
the American Government's Ingairy Concerning
Japan's Willingness to Adopt the 14-Inch Gun
Caliber as a Maximum.
Acting under instructions received from the Department,*
711.9
on June 7 the Ambassador left an aide mémoire with Mr. Hirota,
the Minister for Foreign Affairs, inquiring whether the
Japanese Government would be willing to accept the provision
of the London Naval Treaty of l936 for a reduction in the
future caliber of guns on battleships from 16 inches to 14
inches. On June 18 the Minister for Foreign Affairs handed
the Ambassador an aide mémoire stating that the Japanese
Government is not at this juncture in a position to adopt,
apart from quantitative restriction, a mere limitation of
the gun caliber for capital ships. The aide mémoire explains
that the Japanese Government has not altered its position
as elucidated at the last London Naval Conference, namely,
that it cannot subscribe to qualitative limitation of arma-
ment if not accompanied by a simultaneous restriction of
quantity.**
Mr. Hirota observed to the Ambassador that Japan's
inability to give a favorable answer to the American Government'
inquiry was no indication of any lack of friendliness on the
part of Japen for the United States. He expressed the hope
that in future, as the general international atmosphere
improves, some favorable solution of the naval problem will
come "from somewhere".***
(b)
*
Department's telegram No. 75, June 4, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 161 of June 18, 1937, Embassy's
despatches No. 2481, June 25, 1937, and No. 2483 of
June 25, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegram io. 162 of June 18, 1937.

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
(b). Statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs
Concerning Japan's Policy Toward the United States.
In the Ambassador's initial interview with the new
Minister for Foreign Affairs on June 7, Mr. Hirota requested
that the President and the Secretary of State be informed
that his guiding policy in conducting Japan's relations with
the United States would be based on the Hull-Hirota exchange
of messages in l934.*
(c), Alaska Salmon Fishing Situation.
It was reported in the United States that a large number
of Japanese fishing vessels were preparing to invade the
Bristol Bay salmon fisheries and that some of these vessels
were already there engaged in fishing. Pursuant to instructions
received from the Department,** the Embassy asked the Foreign
Office whether the Japanese Government had changed its policy
of refusing to permit Japanese vessels to fish for salmon in
waters adjacent to Alaska.*** On June 1l the Foreign Office
informed the Embassy that no license had been issued for salmon
fishing in the Bering Sea, stating that the Japanese vessels
reported to be operating near Alaska were presumably engaged
in crab fishing. The Foreign Office added that it was
approaching the Department of Agriculture and Forestry with a
view to giving the American Government further assurance that
no licenses for salmon fishing will be granted, not only until
after the three-year investigations are completed but also
until there has been opportunity for discussion with the American
Government of the salmon fishing problem after the completion
of such investigations.****
(d).
Embassy's telegram No. 151 of June 7, 1937.
**
Department's telegram No. 79 of June 10, 1937.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 1558 of November 20, 1935.
Embassy's telegram No. 155 of June 12, 1937.

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
(d). Ordinance Governing Exports of Japanese Cotton
Textiles to the United States.
There was published in the Ofricial Gazette of June 26
Ordinance No. 68 to the effect that all persons engaged in
the business of exporting cotton textiles (excepting velveteen
and corduroy) to the United States proper who have their
offices within the jurisdiction of the Japan-American Cotton
Yarn and Textile Export Association must observe the regula-
tions and restrictions adopted by the Association to implement
the informal American-Japanese cotton textile agreement con-
cluded on January 22, 1937.*
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
EU
(a). Great Britain.
(1).
Anglo-Japanese Negotiations Looking Toward
A Political and Commercial Agreement.
In reply to a question from Mr. Dooman, Counselor of the
Embassy, on June 23 Mr. Yoshizawa, Director of the American
Bureau of the Foreign Office, stated that the Japanese
Ambassador to Great Britain had been authorized to enter
into formal negotiations with the British Government with a
view to the conclusion of a political agreement regarding
China and also regarding commercial problems which affect
Great Britain and Japan.**
According to a Domei despatch from London which appeared
in the Japanese newspapers on June 22, the forthcoming nego-
tiations at London will be along the following lines: (a)
the Japanese Government will emphasize adjustment of trade
relations (presumably this refers to Japan's desire for the
removal of quotas on Japanese imports into British colonies
and for an assurance that special restrictions will not be
imposed upon Japanese goods imported into British markets);
(b)
Embassy's despatch No. 2494 of July 7, 1937.
Embassy's telegram No. 165 of June 23 and despatch No. 2482
of June 24, 1937.

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
(b) in return Japan will discuss the possibility of issuing a
declaration that "Japan has no territorial ambitions in China
and is ready to respect British vested interests in that
country". Mr. Yoshizawa told Mr. Dooman that the Domei
despatch was a substantially accurate and intelligent estimate
of the subjects which might be discussed in the negotiations.
The Director of the American Bureau of the Foreign Office said
that he could even add that British and Japanese economic
interests in China and commercial problems arising out of
Japanese imports into British markets would be discussed.
According to news despatches to Japan from London, Foreign
Secretary Anthony Eden stated in the House of Commons on June 25
that the talks which had been proceeding between Japan and Great
Britain for the improvement of their relations would "very
shortly lead to an examination of concrete proposals".
In this connection it is interesting to note that, according
to a Domei despatch from Shanghai dated June 27, on that day
the Nanking Government issued the following statement through
the official Central News Agency: (1) All matters relating to
China which are taken up in the Anglo-Japanese negotiations must
be arranged with full respect for the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of the Chinese nation; (2) Any agreement on matters
pertaining to China must be preceded by an exchange of views
with the Chinese and also must be endorsed by the latter.
i (2). Boycott Against the Purchase of Japanese Rayon
Piece Goods Adopted by The Indian Merchants
Association of Yokohama.
On June 5 the Indian Merchants Association of Yokohama
adopted a resolution forbidding the purchase by members of the
Association of Japanese rayon piece goods. It was said that
this step had been taken in retaliation against the recent
20 per cent reduction by the Japanese Rayon Textile Dyers
Amalgamated Company, Limited, of the respective quotas held
by individual dying companies which have heretofore dyed rayon
material to be exported to British India by the Indian morchants
of Yokohama.
(b)。

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
(b) China.
While there was much speculation in Japan concerning
the character of the policy the new Konoye Cabinet would adopt
toward China, it seemed that the Japanese Government had con-
793.94
sidered thus far only the &eneral outlines of the policy to
be pursued.*
Mr. Hirota stated to the Ambassador with regard to Sino-
Japanese relations that conditions had changed since he last
held office, that his former three-points were too abstract for
present circumstances, and that he therefore proposed to find
concrete solutions of the various problems outstandine between
Japan and China.** Furthermore, therc were indications that
Mr. Hirota contemplated soe sort of a departure from the
policy of "equality and reciprocity" advocated by his prede-
cessor, Mr. Sato, and that the formulation of a definite
policy toward China would require some tine. For example,
before his depart re from Yokolhama for Shan hai on June 25
Mr. Kawagoe, Japanese Ambassador to China, stated in a news-
paper intervicw that he had no intention of openine negotia-
tions with Nanking in the immedicte future for the readjust-
ment of Sino-Japanese relations. Furthcrmore, Mr. Kawagoe
was quoted by a Donci despatch from Shrnchai dated June 29
as havine said upon his arrival in that city that thc Ecn-
eral atmosphere would not favor a political adjustment of
Sino-Japanese relations at present.
Incidents continued to occur to complicate Sino-Japanese
affairs but they appeared to be lcss serious in nature than
thosc of the previous month. A Ticntsin-Tokyo air service
was inauguratcd on June 1 throu h arran cmcnts between the
Japen Air Transport Company and the Huitung Avietion Corpora-
tion
Embassy's despatch No. 2484, Junc 24, 1937.
**
Embessy's telegram No. 151, Junc 7, 1937.

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
tion, an organization established under the sponsorship of
the Hopei-Chahar Political Council. On the following day
the Nanking Government issued an order prohibiting the op-
oration of this air service on the ground that the North
Chine authorities had feiled to obtain permission for it from
the Nanking Government. Tho authorities of the Hopei-Chahar
Political Council were reported to be firmly resolved to dis-
regard the ban placed on the Tokyo-Tientsin cir service by
the central authorities.
According to Domei, on June 2 a Chinese mob attacked
and set fire to & farm under Japanese management in the dis-
trict of Tientsin. The staff correspondent of the OSAKA
MAINICHI reported that on June 4,250 Chinese strikers of the
Nakayama Steel Works, a Japanese plent in the International
Settlement, had attacked thc works and inflicted damaees
amounting to 5,Ooo yuan. Although the Ticntsin and Shanehai
incidents mentioned ebove were seid to have ceused ooncern
to the Japanese cuthorities et the time of their occurrence,
the Japanese press paid little further attention to them.
It was reported by thc OSAKA MAINICHI of June 11 that,
according to e report reccived by the Forcign Office from
the Japanese Consul General at Canton, the Swatow Incident
of May 22* wes ir rocess of amicablc settlcment as a local
issue.
EA
(o↑ The Netherlands Indies.
It will be r:called that a clause in the trade agree-
ment concluded by Japan and the Netherlands Indies on April 9,
l937, states that Japan agrees to give favorable treatment,
if possible, to such products of the Netherland Indies as
coffee
* Embassy's telegram No. 137, May 26, 1937.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
coffee, tobacco, and resin.* Three Netherlands Indies
trade delegates arrived in Japan on June 7 for the purpose
of attempting to work out some agreement in accordance with
this clause of the trade agreement. hile the Netherlands
Indies and Japanese delegations held provisional conversa-
tions i: Osaka, nothing of a definite nature seemed to have
been worked out by the close of the month.
(a) "Manchukuo".
An airplane service between Hsinking and Tokyo was in-
aucurated on June 1, a plane from Hsinking to Tokyo and a
plane from Tokyo to Hsinking on that day completine success-
ful flights reportedly ahead of schedule.
RA
(e) Brazil.
Appropos of the increasing purchases by Japan of Brazil-
ian raw cotton it is of interest to note certain remarks made
to a member of the Embassy's staff during the month by(Mr.
of the Japan Raw Cotton Company, one of the leadine Japan-
2
ese importers of raw cotton. Mr. Tsukaguchi said that the
future of cotton erowing in Brazil lay largely in'the hands
C
of the United States; that in his opinion if the American
Government were to take action to improve the average quality
of American cotton and to permit prices more closely to ap-
proach world prices, superior American marketing factors and
transportation and exchan e facilities would reduce in im-
portanc or even ell. inate Brazil as a source of supply for
cotton consumed by Japanese mills.*
* Embassy's despatch No. 2461, June 8, 1937, and despatch
No. 1341 of April 14, 1937, from the Embassy at Rio de
Janeiro.

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
(r). Australia.
A decree for the control of Japanese exports of cotton
textiles to Australia, based on the trade agreement reached
between Australia and Japan in December 1936, was published
in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE of June 2.*
Accordine to the JAFAN TIIES of June 23, Mr. Tomitaro
Iizuka, an industrial leader in Osaka, has concludcd a con-
tract with the Government of Tasmania, Australia, providing
for the supply by the Tasmanian Covernment of hieh-crade iron
ores to Japan. Further negotiations are said to be under way
between the two parties for joint Tasmanian-Japanese develop-
ment of iron resources.
(g). Chile.
An unofficial Japanese-Chilean agreement refulating the
export and export price of iodine was signed on June lo by
the Managing Director of the Nippon Denki Kogyo Kabushiki
Kaisha (Japan Electric Manufacturing Comnany) and by Mr. José
Serrano, who had come to Japan in April 1937 with the Chilean
Economic Mission.**
(h). Mexico.
The JAPAN ADVERTISER of Junc 15 reported that the
freighter, 3ONORA, first Mexican vessel to come to Japan,
had arrived at Yokohama in the carly part of the month with
a load of Mexican scrap iron.
A
(i). Latin America.
It was stated by the CSAYA MAINICHI of June 15 that
with a view to counteracting the increased tendency of
Japan's unfavorable trade balance the Foreign Office had de-
cided
* Embassy's despatch No. 2496, June 8, 1937.
**Embassy's despatches No. 2378, April 29, 1937, No. 2424,
May 14, 1937, and No. 2472, June 18, 1937.

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
cided to invite economic missions to come to Japan from the
various Latin American countries and also to assist in send-
ing economic missions to as many of these countries as pos-
sible.
EU
(j). The Naval Question.
According to the JAvAN C:RONICLE of June 20, in a press
interview on June 18 Admiral Yonai, the Navy Minister, dis-
missed as unwarranted the grave apprehensions entertained in
some Japanese quarters regarding the building programs of
Great Britain and the United Statos for the reason that these
programs were still largely "paper plans".
TD
(k). International.
The Foreign Office spokesman stated to foreign press
correspondents on June 4 that thc Japanese Government had
been prevented from taking part in the 1937 International
Whaling Conference owinc solely to the fact that the Japan-
ese whaling industry was still in an early stare of growth
end had been unable to meke adequate preparations for the
Confercnce. Subsequently it was reported by the press that
the Japanese Government hed decided to attend the orld
Whaling Conference to be held in Lonion in 1938.
EU.
(1). Soviet kussia.
In contrest to the previous month, during Junc there
761.9
were a number of more or less scrious incidents on both the
Soviet-"Manchukuo" and Soviet-Korean borders, culminating
in a severe clash on June 30 opposite Kanchatzu and Chinamuho
Islands in the Amur River near Constantinovsky.
A communiqué from the Kwantung Army Headquarters dated
June 3 reported that a score of Soviet Russien soldiers had
crossed into "Manchukuo" territory and engafed 14 "Manchukuo"
soldiers.

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
soldiers. The Ministry for Foreien Affeirs of "Manchukuo"
reportedly protested against the alleged incident, while
Moscow sources denied thct thc incident as renorted by the
Kwantung Army had taken placc cnd the Chergé d'Affeires of
the Soviet Embessy in Tokyo protestcd to the Japanese Foreign
Office that Japanese soldiers hed cntcred Soviet territory.
Domei reported a large-scale kidnapping by Sovict Russians
of "Menchukuo" subjects. On June 16 a Japenesc policeman
was reportedly killed by Soviet Russian machine-gunners near
the Tumen River when he was in the ect of investigeting border
demarcation stones alon the Soviet-"Manchukuo"-Korean frontiers.
Members of the OGrU were reported to have shot and killed a
"Manchukuo" official on June 29 allcgcdly in "Manchukuo" ter-
ritory, on the lower reachcs of the Ussuri River.
A series of developments occurred on the Amur River in
the latter part of the month which created considerable ten-
sion on the Soviet Russian-"Ianchukuo" border. According to
Domei, on June 19 Soviet Russien soldiers landed on Kenchatzu
end Chinamuho Islands, forcin Menchukuo subjects to evacuatc
the islands and subsequcntly entrenchine themselves there.
According to Japanese sourccs, thc scizure of the Islands by
Soviet forces represented an effort to barricade the main
channel of the Amur in order to cause river traffic to be
routed to the southward side of the Islands, thcreby creating
a new main channel and giving titlc to the Islands to Soviet
Russia.
A formal protest against the occupation of the Amur
Islends was made by the "Manchukuo" Government, which de-
manded

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
manded immediate withdrawal of Soviet troops from "Manchukuo2
territory. On June 28 the Japanese Government took official
cofnizance of the situation by instructing Mr. Shigemitsu,
Ambassador in Moscow, to protest to the Soviet Government.
According to Domei, Mr. Shigenitsu called on Kr. Stomoniakov,
the Soviet Vice Commisser for Foreign Affcirs, et midnight on
June 28 and demended the imnedictc withdrawel of Soviet troops
from the Islands, εiving as the reeson for Japen's interest in
the matter Jepan's treaty obligation to defend "Manchukuo".
On the following dcy, according to information furni hed the
Embassy by the Japanese Foreien Officc, Mr. Litvinov, Soviet
Commissar for Foreien Affairs, essured Mr. Shigemitsu that
the Soviet Russian forces which had seized the Amur River
Islands would be withdrawn upon the condition that "Manchukuo"-
Jepancse forces would be retired from the vicinity of the
Islands.*
However, within & few hours of the assurance given by
Mr. Litvinov to Mr. Shigemitsu a clash took place between
three so-cellcd gun boats of the USSR, in ectuality small
launches, and the Japanese and "Manchukuo" land forces oppo-
site the Islends. À communicué issued by the Kwantung Army
stated that after the Soviet ships had opened fire on the
Japanese and "Manchukuo" forces the latter had returned the
fire and had succceded in sinking one of the Soviet boats
and in c eusin the two others to withdraw. Although Domei
at first reported that heevy losses amounting to about 50
killed had been sustained by the Soviet Russians, the Tass
(Soviet Russian) news agency later reported that only two
Soviet
* Embassy's telegram No. 174, July 2, 1937.

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Soviet soldiers had been killed. Protests over the incident
were made by both sides on the evening of June 30 and there
the matter rested at the end of the month.
No reat excitement over the Amur situetion was apparent
in Japan. The vernacular press wes relatively calm and urged
tho settlement of the incident by negotiation but did not ad-
vocate compromise.*
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) The Cabinet.
Following the resignetion of the Hayashi Cebinet on
May 31 the following Cabinet, under the Premiership of Prince
894.052
Konoye, was installed on June 4:
Foreign Minister: Mr. Koki Hirote, momber of the House
of Peers, former Pr-mier and Foreign
Minister.
Home Minister:
Dr. Eichi Laba, member of the House
of Peers, former Finance Minister (Hir-
ota Cabinet).
Finance Minister:
Mr. Okonobu Kaya (Vice Minister for
Finance under Finance Minister Yuki
in the Hirota Cabinet).
Minister of War:
General Gen Sugiyama, continuing in
office.
Minister of Navy:
Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai, continuing in
office.
Minister of Education: Mr. Eiji Yasui, Governor of Osake
Frefecture.
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry: Count Yoriyasu
Arime, member of the House of Peers.
Minister of Commerce and Industry: Mr. Shunji Yoshino,
former Vice Minister for Comnerce and
Industry (Hirota Cebinet).
Minister
* Embassy's telegram No: 171, July 1, 1937.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
Minister of Communications:
Mr. Yutaro Nagai, a Min-
seito member of the House
of Representatives, former
Minister for Overseas Affairs.
Minister of Railways: Mr. Cuikuhei Nakajima, a Seiyukai
member of the House of Representa-
tives.
Minister for Overseas iffairs: Mr. Sonyu Otani, member
of the House of Peers.
Minister of Justice: Mr. Sui-iko Shiono, continuing in
office.
On the evenin of June 4 Prince Konoye stated in a radio
address that it would be his policy in foreign relations to
seek international justice, and in domestic relations to seek
social justice. (It was subsequently reported that the Premier
was studying measures for the realization of "peace based on
justice and not on the status quo". If such is the Premier's
plan it would indicate that he intends to further Japan's de-
sire for a redistribution of world markets). Prince Konoye's
radio address did not constitute a political platform. In
fact, his statement that he could not yet announce concrete
points of his platform gave the impression that the policy
of the Cabinet would be to meet questions as they arise rather
than to try to carry out any formulated platform.*
Before accepting the task of formine a Cabinet Prince
Konoye obtained the consent of the irmy and the Navy to the
continuing in office of General Sugiyama and dmiral Yonai as
Army and Navy Ministers, respectively. This consent was ap-
parently given without conditions as to the composition of the
Cabinet. Therefore, it represented an expression of confidence
in Prince Konoye as Premier rather than an approval of the in-
dividuals to be chosen for each post in the Cabinet.
Japanese
* Embassy's despatch No. 2469, June 11, 1937.

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
Japanese businessmen and financiers were openly apprehen-
sive concerning the appointment as Home Minister of Dr. Baba,
former Finance Minister, since they fcared that he would be,
as heretofore, an agent of the military element in promoting
plans for the expansion of rigid control over industry and for
expensive schemes which will strain the country's credit and
resourccs.
On June 7 Premier Konoye appointed Mr. Rirota Chairman
of the Plannin Board which hed been esteblished by Imperial
Ordinance on May 13, 1937, during the incumbency of the Hayashi
Cabinet. The Board is cpparcntly designed to be a coordinating
agency of Government policy. However, the powers of the Board
as set forth in the Orainance of May 13 are vegue to the point
of obscurity.*
(b) Political Perties.
Although the Konoye Cabinct contains only onc Minister
from the Seiyukai and only one Minister from the Minseito, the
two parties appearcd to bc satisficd with thc Cabinet, partly
becausc of Premier Konoyc's accision not to attach any con-
ditions to thc appointment of thc Sciyukai and Minseito Min-
isters. On the dey of installation of the new Cabinct the
joint Minscito-Seiyukai committcc for the overthrow of the
Heyashi Cabinet disbanded. Furthermore, the two perties
agreed that while the new Cabinct's stand regarding the po-
litical pertics wes reerettablc in somc rcspects, thc pertics
should eivo the Cabinet their morel support.
Accordine to thc JiPiN .DVERTISER of Junc 22, the Politi-
cel Rcform Council, ? rightist organization, has decided to
abcndon its plan to oreenize c strong politiccl party includ-
ing all reform clcments, owing to the strongth of the reform
movemont
* Embcssy s despetch 0. 2466, June 10, 1937.

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
movement in the Minseito and Seiyukai parties. This news-
paper stated that the rightist organization in question
would concentrate on the formation of a group in the Lower
House, with right-wing independents as its nucleus, to off-
set the influence of the Social Mass Party.
(c). The Diet.
The apparent approval of the Cabinet by the Seiyukai
and the Minseito would indicate that the two major parties
do not intend to be obstructive in the next session of the
newly elected House of Repres .ntatives.* The Diet has been
ordered to convene on July 23 and to be in session for 14
days.
(a). The Army.
According to the TOKYO ICHI NIChI of June 3 the "Big
Three" of the Army (the War Min.ster, the Chief of the Gen-
eral Staff, and the Inspector (eneral of Military Education)
consented to the appointment of Ceneral Sueiyama as War Min-
ister in the Konoye Cabinet in consideration of the follow-
ing four items of policy to oe fulfilled by the new Cabinet:
1) clarification of the national polity; 2) repletion of
natioal defense; 3) stability of the living of the people;
and 4) reform of the Diet. It will be remembered that these
aims have been openly sponsored by the Army ever since the
Incident of February 26, 1936.
In view of the shortage of officers in the Japanese
Army, the War Office has decided to increase considerably
not only the number of cadets in the Military Academy but
also the number of recruits in the Military Preparatory
Academy. The Army also disclosed that the age of recruits
for the Military Preparatory Academy would be raised from
16
* Embassy's despatch No. 2469, June 11, 1937.

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
16 to 20 to from 16 to 22.
(e). House of Peers.
Prince Konoye has been kcown for some time to be in
favor of reforming the House of Peers. He was said to have
told newspaper reporters on June 20 that in his opinion a
reform of the Upper House should first of all include a re-
duction of the proportion of Peers to the total membership
of the Upper House; that the Lower House represented public
opinion and could thus be called the House of common sense;
and that the House of Peers should have more men of expert
knowledge and experience and be reorganized so that it would
stand for "expert opinions and not for the Peers". It was
reported by the press that even the progressive members of the
House of Peers were "astounded" at Premier Konoye's views.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATICN.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNNMENT FINANCE.
In an interview with the press immediately after his
acceptance of the Finance portfolio on June 3, as reported
by the JAPAN TIMES of June 4, the new Finance Minister, Mir.
Kaya, emphasized that he would reject any excessive economic
and monetary control measures although he admitted the ne-
cessity of a broad and fundamental economic planning for
harmonizing the expanding state expenditures and the actual
economic strength of the nation. Mr. Kaya, while asserting
that he would follow the essentials of the financial and
economic policies of his predecessor, lir. Yuki, admitted
that he might adopt "good parts" of the policies of Dr. Baba,
Finance

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
Finance Minister under the Hirota Cabinet.
Despite the assurances of Mr. Kaya, financial and busi-
ness ciroles in general were reported by Domei of June 13 to
be apprehensive lest the Finance Ministry "must eventually
enforce" a system of drastic financial control and managed
economy to meet the budget problem resulting from the increase
in military expenditures and to meet also the necessity of
raising a large amount of molcy for increased industrial pro-
duction.*
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AID FINAICIAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Foreien Trade.
Exports from Japan for the month of June were
Yen 281,195,000 as compared with imports into Japan of
Yen 382,318,000, while May exports amounted to Yen 262,248,000
and imports to Yen 420,074,000. This represented an unfavor-
able balance of trade of Yen 101,123,000 as compared with an
unfavorable balance for May of Yen 157,826,000.** The excess
of imports for the six months' period, January 1 to June 30,
inclusive, reached the large figure of Yen 618,301,000.
It was reported that the Foreign Office had decided to
send economic missions to Africa and Latin America in AuE-
ust of this year with a view to readjusting Japan's foreign
trade and that these missions would be composed of Government
officials and representatives of Chambers of Commerce and of
export guilds.***
The press reported that the Konoye Cabinet's bills for
the readjustment of foreign trade to be presented at the forth-
coming special session of the Diet envisage eventual state
management
Embassy's telegram No. 158, June 14, 1937.
**
Data furnished by Commercial Attache.
***
See Section II (1) of the present Report.

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
management of foreign trade. It was said that in case of
necessity the Government might propose to limit or even pro-
hibit imports or exports of certain commodities.
During the early part of the yeer it will be recalled
that at the instancé of the Japanese Government an association
of wool importers was organized for the purpose of regulating
imports of wool. During the month under review there were
reports to the effect that a movement was on foot to set up a
similar association for the regulation of imports of raw cotton
in view of the complaints on the part of the cotton mills of a
lack of coordination among thc importers which occasionally
leads to scarcity of stocks on hand of raw cotton and to un-
toward fluctuations in price. Whilc the Embassy cannot at
this juncture attempt to comment on this project, it is appar-
ent that such an association, if established, would virtually
perfect the facilities which Jepan now has for regulating its
purchases in the various raw cotton markets.
(b) Shipping.
It was reported during the month that the Yamashita
C
Steamship Company would inaugurate in Octobcr of this year a
regular freight seivice between Kobe and New York with five
9,5oo-ton motorships now under construction. The press stated
that thc servicc would provide for monthly sailings until
March 1938 when additionel ships then to be available would
make possible fortnightly sailings. According to thc Japan-
ese newspapcrs, by thc cnd of the resent ycar there will be
in operation thc following Jepanese freight services to New
York:

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
Mitsui linc --- fortnightly sailings; Osaka Shosen Kaisha ---
monthly sailings; Kokusai Kiscn Kaisha --- monthly sailings;
Nippon Yusen Kaisha --- fortnihtly scilings; Daido Steamship
Compeny --- monthly sailin-s; Yemashita Kisen Kaisha --- month-
ly sailings.
In addition, according to THE JAPAN CHRONTCLE of June 29,
the Nippon Yusen Kaishc will inaucurate in July of this year
a round-the-world service via the Panama Canal, with five cargo
boats in operation. This newspaper stated that the Osaka
Shosen Kaisha was going to start a North European service via
the Panama Canal with a flcet of four ships, beginning in the
early part of 1938.
It was reported by the press that the Ministry of Communi-
cations had decided to grant a subsidy of Yen 33,750,000 for
the construction of 12 passenger steamers to be in service for
the l940 Tokyo Olympics: 7 Nippon Yusen Keisha stcamers rang-
ing in tonnage from 10,800 to 16,500 tons for thc North Amcrican,
European, and Australicn services, and five similer Osaka Shosen
Kaisha stcamers for thc South mcrican and East African serv-
ices.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF MERICN COMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FCREIGI COM ERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nothing to report.
IX. LBOR.
According to figures publishcd by the Social Bureau of
the Ministry for Home iffairs, there were 1,229 cases of
labor disputes during thc first five months of l937 as com-
pared with about 7oo cases for the corresponding period of
1936.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
1936. The Home Orficc also reported that over 80 percent of
the current year's labor disputes represented demands for in-
creases in wages or discharge allowances because of the rise
in the cost of livine; that the wage increases demended had
been from 10 to 30 pcrcent; that employers had in general
agreed to wage incrcases ranging from 8 to 10 percent; and
that the employers concerned had been more willing than here-
tofore to concede the demands of their employees, while on
the other hand the cmployees involved had rarely resorted to
violence or to other extreme means for the attainment of satis-
faction.
X. MISCELLANEOUS:
Nothing to report.

=== Page 387 === (confidence 1.00)
DESPATCHES SENT TO TIIE DEPARTMENT
DURING JUNE, 1937
NO.Date
Subject
2447
June 3
Mural Paintings.
2448 June 4
Desire of "Manchukuo" Government to Present Copies
of Diaries of Ching Dynasty Emperors to
Institutions in the United States.
2449 June 4
Speech by Kr. Erle R. Dickover.
2450
June 5
Diplomatic Visa Renort.
2451
June 7
Letters Rogatory - VENICE MARU Case.
2452
June 7
Letters Rogatory - VENICE MARU Case.
2453
June 7
Book for the Department.
2454
June 3
Fall of the Hayashi Cabinet.
2455
June 8
Invitation to Japanese Boy Scouts to Attend
National Jamboree at Washington.
2456 June 8
Requisition for Electric Light Bulbs.
2457
June 8
Requisition for Lettering Stencils.
2458
June 8
Requisition for Magnetic Valves.
2459
June 8
Requisition for Coil Packing and Valve Washers.
2460
June 8
Requisition for Locking Devices for Book Shelves.
2461
June 8
Possible Existence of a Secret Cotton Purchase
Agreement betwcen Brazil and Japan.
2462 June 9
Report on Conditions in Japan for May, 1937.
2463
June 9
Relations Between Japan and the Netherland Indies.
2464
June 10
Requisition for Valve Vellows and Oil Burner Parts.
2465
June 10
Ambassador's Application for Leave of Absence.
2466
June 10
Hirota Appointed Head of Planning Board.
2467
June 10
Japan-British India and Japan-Burma Trade Agreement
2468
June 11
Cipher Tables.
2469
June 11
Konoe Cabinet Installed June 4, 1937.
247
June 15 Books for Department Library.
2471
June 15 Sixth Quarter Examination of Mr. J. K. Emmerson.
2472
June 18 Japan-Chile Iodine Export Agreement.
2473
June 19 Diplomatic Visa Report.
2474
June 21 Japanese Ship Subsidy Laws.
2475 June 21 Letters Rogatory in FERNCLIFF Case.
2476

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No.Dete
Subject
2476
June 22
Foreign Exchange Control Law of Japan.
2477
June 22
Oath of Orrice, Mr. Cabot Coville.
2478
June 22
Orficial Bond, r. Cabot Coville.
2479
June 22
Arridavit Upon Appointment, Mr. Cabot Coville.
2480
June 22
Alaska Salmon Fishing Situation.
2481
June 25
Limitation of Caliber of Guns for Capital Ships.
2482
June 24
Anglo-Japanese Negotiations.
2483
June 25
Naval Armaments.
2484
June 24
Japan's Policy Toward China.
2485
June 26
Dinlomatic Visa Report.
2486
June 26
International Copyright Judgrent.
2487
June 26
Iron and Steel Exportation from Japan.

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.93)
SEPT 1 1937
DEPARTMENTRE STATE
DEPARIMEN! OI AIL
9-12
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1957 AUG 23 PM 2 30
11,12,14,15E1
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2686.
DIVISION OF
AE
COMMUNICATIONS TokyO, August 5, 1937.
AND RECORDS
SUBJECT:
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE MONTH
 JULY, 1957.
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER CN
TEGALADVISER
INTERNATIONAL 
7937
894.00
HE3-193S
ASSITANT SECRETARY
DEIMRIMENT OF STATE
DEPA.INL
ONI
AUG 30 1937
OF STATE
MID
COPIES SENT TO
0.N.1. ANDM..).
Cojy in F=
…
an
f.
Th Hónorable
894.00 P.R.
PAH LAST
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Departmert of State
sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93 of
July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the Imbassy's
monthly report on conditions in Japan for the month of July, 1937.
9
Respectfully yours,
Enclosute:
Joseph C. Grew.
, Report No. 130.
Ccpy to Embassy, Peiping
Embassy, Moscow
SEP11937
Embassy, Nanking
FILED
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Osaka
Consulate, Kobe
E/HC
Consulate, Dairen
in yuintuplicate to the Department.
200
D..C
1\

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 1.30
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF JULY, 1937.

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.98)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I.
RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a) American Government's Attitude toward
the North China Situation.
1,2,3
(b) Alaska Salmon Fisheries.....
3
(c) American Government's Representations
concerning Proposed Manchukuo Insurance
Law and Special Insurance Company..
3,4
II.
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) China.
4,5,6,7,8
(b) Great Britain.
9,10
(c) Soviet Russia.
11
(a) "Manchukuo".
11
(e) Germany.
11
(f) Netherland India.
12
(g) Italy.
12
(h) Canada.
12
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS:
(a) The Cabinet...
12
(b) The Diet.
13
(c) The Navy.
14
(u) Political Parties.
14
I.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
14
VI.
GERL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Foreign Trade.
15
(b) Industries......
15
(c) Petroleum.
15
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREICN CCAERCIAL NTERLFTS:
Nothing to roport.
Ix.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION.
(a) Labor......
1.6
16
x.
MISCELLANEOUS:
Nothing to report.

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) American Government's Attitude toward the North China
Situation.
S
On July 13 the Ambassador reported to the Department by tele-
T graph that he saw no reason why the American Government should take
R action along the lines suggested by Mr. Eden to the Amorican Am-
I bassador in London, namely, a combined offer by the American and
C British Governments of help in settling the North China diffi-
T culties.*
L
At a press conference on July l6 the Secretary of State made
Y a statement expressing the deep concern of the United States over
the disturbed situations in various parts of the world. The Jap-
C anese pross published an extensive summary of the Secretary's state-
 ment based on a Domei report. No comment by Japanese officials or
N by the Japanese press came to the Eabassy's attention excepting
F that contained in an editorial in the NICHI NICHI of July 18, which
I incidentally cited the Secretary's statement and asserted that
D Japanese rights in the present North China incident rested solely
E on the Boxer Protocol and that Japan was persistently endeavoring
 to prevent aggravation of the situation.**
Acting under telegraphic instructions received from the Dopart-
 ment, the Ambassador called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs at
4. 5:30 on July 22 and read to him the statements in the Department's
: telegram covering the interview which the Socretary of State had
bad with the Japanese Ambassador in Washington on the morning of
July 21.*** Among these statements were the following: that the
Secretary of State had told the Japanese Ambassador that the Am-
erican government would be glad at any time to say or do anything
short of miediation (which of course would require agreement of
both parties in advance) that might in any way whatever contribute
toward oomposing the present matters of controversy between Japan
and China, and that the Secretary had made it clear that he was in-
viting voluntary suggestions on the part of the Japanese or Chinese
Governments
rmbassy s telegram No. 196, July 13, 1937.
** Enbassy's telegram No. 210, July 19, 1937, and Department's
telegram No. 216 of July'16, 1937:
*** Department's telegram No. 122, July 21, Embassy's telegram No.223
July 22, Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 2506 of July 23, 1937.

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Governments, and not making any offer or suggestion of any method
to be followed. Mr. Hirota said that he fully understood the
Secretary's message, which he had not yet received from the Japanese
Ambassador in Washington; that he would not reply, however, "for a
few days" because the situation in North China was steadily improv-
ing and that he was more optimistic than formerly concerning a
satisfactory settlement of the controversy; and that practical
evidence of his optimism was given by the fact that all troop move-
ments from Japan to China had been stopped for the present.
Pursuant to telegraphic instructions received from the Depart-
ment, the Ambassador called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs on
the morning of July 28 and made an oral statement expressing the
earnest hope of the American Government that the Japanese Government
would give effect to the assurances which it had directly and in-
directly conveyed to the American Government concerning the rights
and interests of the Powers in China and that the Japanese Govern-
ment would take effective measures toward dissuading the Japanese
command in North China from proceeding with any plan for military
operations which would be likely to endanger lives and property of
American nationals.* The Minister for Foreign Affairs asserted
ategorically. to the Ambassador that it was not true that the
Japanese intended to launch a general attack against all Chinese
f ces both within and without the city of Peiping regardless of
ncther the withdrawal of the 37th Division should proceed satis-
: torily. He stated further that a Japanese attack would be
curried out at noon on July 28 only if withdrawal of the 37th Div-
i ion had not taken place by that time. Mr. Hirota gave the Am-
ssador explioit assurances that every effort would be made to
protect
 rartment's telegram No. 128, July 27, 1937; Embassy's telegram
2. 230, Ju1y 28, 1937.

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
protect the lives and property of American and ther foreign na.
tionals and the rights and interests of the Unlted States and ourer
Powers in the affected area.
In the afternoon of the same day the Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs called the Ambassador on the telephone and, at the request
cf the Minister for Foreign Affairs, read the substance of a roport
just received from the commander of the Japanese forces in North
China to the following effect: on the morning of July 28 a Japanese
army officer called on the Mayor of Peiping and stated that complete
withdrawal of Chinese troops from the walled city of Peiping would
not be required by noon, but that such withdrawal would be expected
to begin and be completed "in due course". The report added that
measures were being taken to safeguard the interests of cther for-
eign Powers in Peiping and that the Japanese troops within the walls
of Peiping would not attack unless challenged.*
(r) Alaskan Sulmon Fisheries.
Acting under irstructions received from the Depariment, the
mcascador called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs on July 5
uro 'eft with him an aide memoire presenting a brief review of the
infc mul discussions which had thus far taken place between the
rerican and Japanese Governments concerning the Alaskan salmon
isniies question. Afterwards, the Ambassador orally stressed the
giderations which should persuade the Japanese Government to favor
 ccnclusion of an international convention for the conservation
 he sulmon resources in certain waters of the Bering Sea and of
ristol Bay.**
(c) American Government's representations concerning proposed
Manchukuo Insurance Law and Special Insurance Company.
Pirsuant to instructions received from the Department, the
o ss) n July 6 made oral and informal representations to the
Japanese
y's telegram No. 229, July 28, 1937.
ir tment's instruction No. l262, June 5; Embassy's telegram
. 1790, July 6, 1937.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
Japanese Foreign Ofrice against the insurance law contemplated ry
the "Manchukuo" Government and also against tho proposed creatior
of the state-afriliated Manchuria Fire and Marine Insurance Comrany
on the ground that such a law and such a priviloged company vig
eliminate American insurance business in Manchuria.*
The British Embassy made similar representations on July 6, 1937
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.
7939
On the night of July 7 and in the early morning of July 8 an
armed clash took place at Lukouchiao (Marco Polc Bridge, 10 miles
二
southwest of Peiping) between troops of the Japanese North China
Garrison, who were reportedly executing maneuvers, and troops of the
29th Chinese Army. According to a Japanese newspaper extra published
o the morning of July 9, news despatches from Peiping received at
ta: Jananese War Office stated that mediation by tho Mayor of Tientsin
inc tusulted in an oral agreement providing for tho withdrawal of
tie apanese forces north of the Yungting River and of the Chinese
forces south of the River. However, fighting broke out again on the
vening of July 10 and continued during the early morning of July 11.
The Japanese authorities in Tokyo took a serious view of the
irhting which had occurred during the evening of July 10 and the
a1ly morning of July 1l, and on the afternoon of July 1l the Cabinot
in dc public a resolution the substance of which was that the fighting
ulsequent to the oral plan of settlement was a matter of deliberate
rinese military planning against Japan and that although the Japan-
 Government had not abandoned hope that negotiations might yet
ri vent aggravation of the situation, the Cabinet had decided to take
-i nicessary measures for despatching military forces to North China.
A
 T gram from Peiping No. 190, June 29; Embassy's telegram No. 170
Ot June 30; Department's telegram No. l0l, July 1; and Embassy's
t logram No. 181 of July 7, 1937.

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
A written agreement providing for the withdrawal of Chinesc and
Japanese troops from the Yungting River was reaohed on the evening
of July ll by Japanese North China Garrison authorities and repre-
sentatives of the Hopei-Chahar Political Council. According to in-
formation furnished to the Embassy by the Japanese Foreign Orrice, th.
agreement further proided for replacement of the 29th Army troops by
troops of the Chinese Peace Preservation Corps, apology for the inci-
dent by General Sung Che-yuan, Commander of the 29th Army, punishment
of the Chinese officers responsible for the clashes, and measures to
be taken by the North China authorities against the anti-Japanese
activities of the Blue Shirts and communists.
On the following morning, however, further fighting reportedly
occurred near Peiping. The Japanese military authorities in North
China took the position that this fighting had been entirely due to
the actions of the 29th Army troops and that the latter had broken the
written agreement of July ll.
On July 13 there were indications of a strong and unanimous
determination on the part of the Japanese Government to resist,
?ven at tho cost of extensive hostilities, any movement which
might tend to weaken Japan's position in North China.*
An official of the Japanese Foreign Office stated to a member
of the Embassy's staff on July 14 that future developments in North
China would dopend on (1) whether the Blue Shirts would incite the
9th Army to further anti-Japanese activities, and (2) whether the
anking Government would send troops north of Paoting, Hopei Province,
in contravention of the Ho-Umezu agreement of 1935. This official
stated cmphatically that Japan would not permit Nanking Government
troops to proceed north of this point. **
Although
Embassy's telegram No. 192, July 13, 1937.
mbassy's telegram No. 200, July 14, 1937.

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Although little fighting was reported from July 1l to July 17,
the situation remained tense. On the latter date Mr. Hidaka,
Counselor of the Japanese Embassy at Nanking, called on the Chinese
Minister for Foreign Affairs and handed him a memorandum, the terms
of which, according to Mr. Hidaka's subsequent statements, were the
following: (1) the Chinese Government should cease provocative acts
(which, Mr. Hidaka, explained, meant cease sending troops into Hopei
Province); and (2) the Japanese Government should cease impeding the
local negotiations in the north.*
The Embassy was informed by the Foreign Office that on July 18
General Sung Che-yuan had tendered an apology to General Kiyoshi
Kazuki, Commander of the Japanese North China Garrison, for the oc-
currence of the Lukouchiao incidents, in accordance with the terms of
the July ll agreement.**
On July 19, in reply to the Japanese memorandum of July 17, an
official of the Chinese Foreign Office delivered a note to the
Counselor of the Japanese Embassy at Nanking containing the following
four points: (1) the two countries should agree on a date when move-
ments of their military forces would cease, and these forces would
be recalled to their original positions; (2) diplomatic negotiations
should be opened for sottlement of the dispute; (3) the authorizstion
of the Nanking Government is essential for any agreement concluded
on the spot; and (4) China is willing to accept any means of settle-
rent recognized by international law and treaties. In the evening
of the same day the Japanese Foreign Office issued a statement appro-
oos of the Chinese memorandum charging the Chinese Government with
ittempting to befog the issue and asserting that the only issue was
hether or not the Nanking Governmont would continue to obstruct
'nnlementation of the July ll local agreement. ***
In
Telegram to the Department from Embassy at Nanking, No. 306, July
Enbassy's telegram No. 21l, July 19.
Enbassy's telegrem No. 213, July 20.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
In a statement to the people of China issued by General Chiang
Kai-shek at Kuling on July 19 it was steted that no plan of settleren'
could be accepted that would infringe on the territorial integrity
or sovereignty of China; that the status of the Icpei-Chahar Pol!tics
Council would be decided only by the Nationa? G v.rrnent and no :1.
legal changes would be permitted; that China coulù not agree to ais-
missal of a local official appointed by the Natiunal Government,
such as the Chairman of the Hopei-Chahar Political Council, beceuse
of any pressure from outside; and that China could not submit to any
restrictions as to tho place of garrisoning the 29th Army.
A recurrence of fighting tock plece on July 20, the day follow-
ing the reported conclusion of the agreement betwaen-General Sung
Che-yuan and Lieutenant-General Kazuki for local scttlement of the
Tukouchiao incident based on the terms of the understanding of
July 11.
According to Japanese reports, on July 25 the 29th Army units
had failed to withdraw from their positions in accordance with the
local agreement and some of these units had even strengthened their
positions. On the same day General Chiang Kai-shek told the American
An bassador in Nanking that the Contral Government of China had ac-
ceded to Japanese demands and had withdrawn its opposition to a local
settlement of the Lukouchiao incident along the lines of the three
points provided for in the agreement of July 1l.
Severe fighting reportedly broke out at Langfang during the
right of July 25 between Japanese troops and Chinese troops of the
3th Division of the 29th Army.
On July 26 Lieutenant General Kazuki sent to General Sung Che-
Lan a virtual ultimatum asserting that the Japanese Army would be
ompelled to take "free action" if the 37th Division Chinese troops
..ar Lukouchiao and Papaoshan were not withdrown to the west of the
"lxgting River by noon on July 27 end if all troops of the 37th Div-
1sion

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
ision were not removed from Peiping and from Hsiyuan to the west of
the Yungting River by noon on July 28. Following the issuance of this
ultimatum a clash occurred at Changyimen in the southwestern suburbs
of Peiping when Chinese troops allegedly opened fire on Japanese troor
who were trying to force their way into the city.*
On July 27 the Japanese North China Garrison started a "punitive
campaign" against troops of the 29th Army and during the remaining day
of the month heavy fighting took place in the region around Peiping an.
also in Tientsin.
On the morning of July 29 it was confirmed by Chinese officials
in Peiping that all troops of the 37th Division and part of the 132nd
Division, which had been in Peiping, had left the city and were moving
toward Paoting and that General Sung Che-yuan as well as General Feng
Chih-an, Commander of the 37th Division, and other officials, had left
Peiring for Paoting.**
Telegrem to the Department from Embassy at Peiping, No. 301,
Ju1y 27, 1937.
** Telegram to the Department from the Embassy at Peiping, No. 322,
July 29, 1937.

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.97)
Eu
-9-
(b) Great Britain.
S
The British Chargé d'Affaires in Tokyo informed the American
I Ambassador on July 13 that Mr. Eden had inquired of the American
R Ambassador in London whether some combined Anglo-American démarche
in Tokyo and Nanking would be favorably considered by the American
Government.*
7
Two days later, acting on instructions received from his Gov-
ernment, the British Chargó d'Affaires called on the Japanese Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs and stated orally that "the British
Government is using such influence as it may possess at Nanking to
persuade the Chinese Government to take no action which might make
the situation in North China more difficult. If in the course of
any negotiations that may take plaoe for a settlement the British
Government could be of any assistance it will be glad to listen to
any suggestions that the Japanese Government would care to make." **
On the following day the British Chargé d'Affaires called on
the Japanese Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs and without instruc-
tions from his Government communicated orally to him the contents
of a telegram just received from the British Ambassador at Nanking,
the essence of which was that the Chinese Government was ready to
withdraw troops to the positions held prior to the incident and to
terminate all troops movements in the affected area if similar action
were taken by the Japanese Government and that as a preliminary
neasure the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs was considering pro-
posing that on July 17 all troop movements on both sides should stop.**
Mr. Eden stated in the House of Commons on July 22 that as long
is the present situation in North China persisted it did not seem
nportune to open the conversations with Japan with regard to the
nclusion of a political agreement to which the British Government
ins looking forward.
Soparate
See Section I of the present report.
Embassy's telegram No. 203, July 15, 1937.
Enbassy's talagram No. 206, July 16, 1937.

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.95)
-10-
BHRHOEHN
Separate representations similar to those made by the American
Ambassador on July 28 were made by the British Chargé on the same
day for the protection of British lives and property in Peiping.*
Pursuant to instructions received from London, the British
Chargé d'Affaires on July 29 left with the Japanese Vice Minister
for Foreign Affairs a letter for the Minister for Foreign Affairs
NE
stating that Mr. Eden was greatly perturbed by a statement made to
HAENEHAH
the British Chargé d'Affaires by Mr. Hirota on the previous day to
the effect that decisions for military operations in North China
now lay with the commander of the Japanese troops in that area.
The British Chargé a'Affairas also said that this observation ap-
peared to Mr. Eden to be contrary to Mr. Hirota's statement in the
Diet to the general effect that Japan did not want war with China.**
NO DISTRIBUTION IS BEING MADE OF THIS SECTION - GREAT BRITAIN
II (b) - CF THE PRESENT REPORT.
* Imbassy's telegram No. 230, July 28, 1237.
**Embassy's telegram No. 234, July 29, 1937.

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
(c) Boviet Russia.
761.44
On July 1, Mr. Shigamitsu, the Japanese Ambassador at Moscow.
made renewed representations with the Soviet Goverrment concerring
the canflict of June 30 between three Soviet armed launcres ard 1
combined force of Japanese and "Manchukuo" troops.* Mr. Shigemitsu
announced on July 2 that he had been informed by the Soviet Forelgn
Commissar, Mr. Litvinov, that the Soviet Government would eacuate
its troops from the occupied Amur River Islands and withdraw the
Soviet armed vessels concentrated in that vicinity.**
While Japanese officials and the Japanese press failed to mentio:
that any conditions had been demanded by Soviet Russia, it appeared
likely that in the terms of settlement accoptei ry Japan there was
included the Soviet domand for a withdrawal of Japanese and Manchu-
kuo" forces from the Amur islands.***
Only a few minor clashes occurred on the Soviet-"Manchukuo"
border after the settlement of the Amur incident.
No evidence came to the Embassy's notice during the month
that Soviet Russia was contemplating active aid to China in the
Sino-Japanese conflict.
(a) "Manchukuo".
According to Domei, Mr. Chang Ching-hui, Premier of "Manchukuo",
issucd an official statement on July 20 promising the fullest sup-
port for Japan in its "punitive expedition" against the Chinese in
fortn China.
EA
(c) Gernany.
A Domei despatch from Hsinking stated that negotiations were
progressing between the "Manchukuo" Government and Dr. Otto Knoll,
Germen Trade Commissioner in Hsinking, for the granting to "Manchukuo"
nw the Otto Wolf Company of Germany of a commercial credit to the
rixinum value of loo million yen to be used in purchasing German
machines
Enbassy s despatch No. 2497, July 7; and Monthly Roport for
June, Section II (1).
Embassy's telegram No. 176, July 7, 1937.
ubassy's despatoh No. 2497, July 7, 1937.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
machines and other industrial equipment.
(r) Notherlands India.
EA
Aocording to information furnished the Embassy by the Nether-
lands Chargé d'Affaires, the Netherlands India-Japan trade nego-
tiations in Tokyo came to an end during the month without agreement,
since the delegates had been unable to reach an understanding on the
apportionment of quotas for Japanese exports to the Netherlands
Indies between Japanese exporters and Netherlands Indies exporters
in Japan.
(g) Italy.
A Domei report from Rome dated July 27 stated that the letters
of credence of Mr. Hotta, the new Japanese Ambassador to Italy,
which were addressed to "The King-Emperor", were generally con-
sidered in Rome as official recognition by the Japanese Government
of Italy's conquest of Abyssinia and of the creation of an African
Empire.
(n) Canada.
The JAPAN TIMES of July 9 reported that owing to the recent
increase in prices of Canadian wheat and strengthening of the
Foreign Exchange Control Law imports of wheat from Canada would be
nuch smaller this year than formerly.
ITI. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Cabinet.
Several Cabinet plans, such as those for the creation of a
7942
Vinistry of Health and for reform of the House of Peers, appeared to
nave been shelved by the Government as a result of the latter's pre-
occupation in the North China situation. In fact, interest in the
internal political situation appeared to be overshadowed by the
concern

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
concern felt by the Government, the press, and the people in general
over the North China dirficulties.
(b) The Diet.
844.32
Until the close of the month the proceedings of the special Diet :
Ic, which was convened on July 23, were conoerned largely with
the North China situation.* The Government's supplementary budgets
for financing Japanese military operations in China were quickly
passed by both Houses.**
In an address delivered before the Diet on July 27 Premier
Konoe stated that in sending troops to North China the Japanese
Government had no other purpose than to "preserve the peace of
East Asia" and that he hoped most fervently that reconsideration
and self-discipline on the part of the Government and people of
China would make speedily possible a fundamental adjustment of
Sino-Japanese relations. Subsequently, in reply to an interpellation,
the Premier said that what Jepan wanted of China was not territory
but cooperation.
Mr. Hirota, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, delivered an
cddress to the Diet in which he said that he believed that foreign
governments understood fully Japan's attitude of "patience and self-
restraint" with regard to North China. General Sugiyama, the War
inister, told the Diet that the origin of the present North China
ji ficulties was the general anti-Japanese movement in China which
"as an outcome of the Nanking Goverrment's thorough anti-Japanese
folicy and of China's over-estimation of its national strength.
On July 28 Premier Konoe stated in reply to an interpellation
that in his opinion it was premature to talk at the present time of
rarthrowing the National Government since there were many persons
i.1 that Government who understood Japan, including General Chiang
Kai-shek.
Exbassy's despatoh No. 2525, August 6, 1937.
See Seotion V, GOVERNMENT FINANCE, of the present report.

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.96)
-14.
Kai-ahok. According to Demei, tto Premir lso reikei that the
territorial integrity of China vas a principle which Tapin hed teen
advocating for the past forty year urd hat, trereroic, Japan must
prevent foreign powere from taking ceressive action iuct Ciira.
(c) The Navy.
Tha press reported that the total demands of tho Nav: Ministry
for the 1938-1939 budget wculd amount to over 850,000,000 yen.
(a) Political Partics.
The Minseito and the Seiyukai end other political groups in the
House of Representatives issued statements durin; the month announc-
ing that they were firmly resolved to support the Governmont in the
current North Chine situntion. According to Derci, the Shakai Taishu-
to (Social Mass Party) also expressed approvel of the Government's
policy toward China.
On July ie the Japan Reform Party, an ultra-nationalistic or-
zarizaticr, os founded by sevoral Diet members and representatives
 various tionalistic groups and there was adopted a platform
designea to ircr.ace Japan's strength and prestige. Major-General
Gurkuro Et), retired, was repcrtedly appointed chairman of the cen-
tral vecitiv coimittee of the party.
IV. COURSE CF LCISLATION.
Nothims to ropert.
EA
V.
GOVERNDNT FIHNCE.
994.51
Cn July 7 rere wore promulgated revisions of the Foreign Ex-
change Contrcl Rogulations, effective as of that day, which provided
trat the meximum of 30,ooo yen per month for transactions not requiring
foroign exchange permits should be reduced to 1,0oo yen per month.*
Following the approval by the Diet of a supplementary budgot
amounting to approximately lc million yen for financing Japanese
military
* Eibassy's telegram No. 182, July 7, 1937.

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
military operations in China, a second suppiementary budget of
96,800,000 yen for the same purpose was unanimously apprcved,
without disoussion, by the House of Representatives on July 28 and
by the House of Peers on July 29.
At the conference of provincial governors on July 15 the
Finance Minister issued a warning against financial speculation in
connection with the North China emergenoy and intimated the Govern-
ment's intention of restricting such speculation, if necessary.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
EA
(a) Foreign Trade.
Exports from Japan for July amounted to ¥294,267,000 while im-
ports into Japan amounted to ¥373,633,000 as compared with June
exports of ¥281,195,000 and imports of ¥382,318,000. This repre-
sented an unfavorable balance of trade of ¥79,366,000 as compared
with an unfavorable balance for June of ¥101,123,000.
(b) Industries.
It was stated by the press that the Nippon Seitetsu Kaisha, a
semi-official company embracing the Yawata Iron Works and several
private iron foundries, was preparing a "mobilization of iron and
steel" in connection with the North China emergency and had already
notified wholesale dealers in iron and steel that they might in the
future be asked to restrict their sales.
(c) Petroleum.
Domei reported that the Government had decided to open coal
fields in the Japanese half of Saghalien in preparation for launch-
ing a large scale coal liquefaction enterprise for the production of
petroleum.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
IX. LABOR AND EMIGRATION.
(a) Labor.
A survey by the Home Orrice published during the month revealed
894.504
that there had been 1,332 labor disputes during the first five months
of 1937, almost double the number for the same period of 1936, and
that l69,797 persons had participated in these disputes or fivo times
as many as during the same period last year.
About five hundred members of the Kobe Municipal Streetcar
Employees' Union started a strike for higher wages on July 6.
According to most newspaper reports, the Hyogo prefectural authori-
ties issued a warning to the employees that the strike must end im-
modiately in view of the North China situation and the strikers re-
turned to work on July 19. The JAPAN CHRONICLE of July 20 reported,
however, that the strikers had "voluntarily" decided to return to
work.
(b) Emigration.
According to Domei, on July 2 the Cabinet approved plans for
the creation of a new "Manchukuo" Development Company for the pur-
pose of sending five million Japanese to "Manchukuo" within the
next twenty years. It was said that the new company would be cap-
italized at ¥50,000,000 and would absorb the existing "Manchukuo"
Development Company which was established with a capitalization of
only ¥ 15,000,000.
X. MISCKLLANEOUS. Nothing to report.

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING JULY, 1937.
No.
Date
Subject
2489
July 3
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2490
July 6
International Ice Patrol.
2491
July 7
Quarterly Report of Personnel in Embassy Apartment.
2492
July 7
Report on Codes.
2493
July 7
Japanese Mandated Islands. Annual Reports.
2494
July 7
Japanese Regulations Governing Export of Cotton
Textiles to the United States.
2495
July 8
Japanese Ship Inspectors.
2496
July 9
Business Women's Clubs.
2497
July 7..
Amur River Incident.
2498
July 10
Control of Japan's Cotton Textile Exports to
Australia.
2499
July 8
Foreign Exchange Control Regulations.
2500
July 8
Office Organization and Administration.
2501
July 9
Salmon Fisheries.
2502
July 9
Fourth America-Japan Student Conference.
2503
July 9
Monthly Political Report for June.
2504
July 10
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2505
July 13
Narcotic Seizure on S. S. PRESIDENT COOLIDGE.
2506
July 23
North China Incident.
2507
July 17
Reference Books for Japanese Study.
2508
July 20
Cooperation of Treasury Representative at Kobe
with Local Authorities.
2509
July 20
Foreign Exchange Control Regulations.
2510
July 22
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2511
July 23
Activities of U. S. Treasury Representatives.
2512
July 23
Japanese Supervision of Narcotics Traffic.
2513
July 24
Japanese Budget 1937-38.
2514
July 24
North China Incident.
2515
July 23
Seventh Quarter Examination of Mr. Warner.
2516
July 31
Visit of Foreign Naval Vessels to New York
During World Fer.
25-7
[uly 28
Ford Motor Company vis-á-vis Automobile Law.
<518
July 31
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1) Visa Report.

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRALS SET TO TIE DTARTENT
DURING JULY, 1957.
No.
Date
Subject
171
July 1, 7 p. m.
Amur River Incident.
172
July 2, 10 a. m.
Reqlisitior or Funds.
173
July 2, 11 a. 1.
Loss of Despatch 2059, regarding Requeet
of a Japanese for Photoeraphs.
174
July 2, 2 p. m.
Amur River Incident.
175
July 2, 4 p. m.
Manchukuo Cil Monopoly.
176
July 3, 11 a. m.
Amur iver Incident.
177
July 6, 11 a. m.
Visit of Adniral Yarrell to Japan.
178
July 6, 1 2. m.
Method of Cooperating with Jepanese
Authorities to Curb Narcotics Traffic.
179
July 6, 6 p. m.
Proposed Fisheries Cor vetion tetween
United States and Jaran,
180
July 6, 7 2. m.
Japanese Forein Exclange Control.
182
Tuly 7, noon
Manchurian Insurence aw.
122
July 7, 4 p. m.
Japanese Foreign Excrance Control.
7
Tuly 3. 11 a. m.
Free Entry for Automobilc of Treasury
Attaché in Hobe.
14
July , 1 p. m.
Japancse Foreien Exchance Cortrol.
1{,
July, n. m.
North China Incidont.
13
July , 1 P. m.
North China Cituaticn
187
July 9, 6 2. m.
Diplomatic Visa for Spanish Diplomat.
380
Tuly 11, 11 a. m.
Disappearance of Amelia FMarhart.
189
July 12, noon
North China Situation.
1ST
July 12, 7 p. m.
North China Situation.
191
y 2, 3 p. m.
North China Situation.
193
ouly ,..
North China Situation.
193
July 17,3r..
North China Situation,

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 .
194 July 13, 7 p. m.
Finencial Situatior in Fapan Sinco
the Occurrence of the North Crina
Incident.
195
July 13, 8 p. n.
Soviet Union's Interpal Conu'tiol.
196
July 13, 9 p. m.
North China Situation.
197
July 14, 10 a. m.
North China Situation.
198
July 14, noon.
Manchukuo Oil Monopoly.
199
July 14, 5 p. m.
North China Situation.
200
July 14, 6 p. m.
North china Situation.
201
July 15, 9 p. m.
North China Situation.
202
July 15, 10 p. m.
Nerth China Situation.
203
July 15, 11 p. m.
North China Situation.
204
July 16, noon
North China Situavion.
205
July 16, 6 p. m.
North China Situition.
205
July 16, 7 p. m.
North China Situation.
2C7
Julv 17, 3 p. m.
North China Situation.
203
July j7, 7 p. m.
North China Situition.
July 19, 4 p. m.
North Crino Situation.
210
July 19, 5 p. m.
North China Situation. Japanese Press
Comm nt on the Secretury's Statomont.
:11.
J 1, 6 p. m.
North Chin Situutiol.
612
Julv 20, 4 p. m.
Narcotics X S. S. HEIAN VAPU.
213
Tuly 20, 5 p. m.
North China Situetion.
14
July 20, midnight
North China Situation.
215
July 21, 4 p. m.
Revaluation of Japanesc Specie Reserve.
210
Tuly ?1, 5 p. m.
North China Situation.
21
July 21,  p. m.
North China Situation.
213
July 21,..
North Crina Situation.
213
July 21,  p. m.
North China Situation.
220
July 2l.  p. m.
North China Situation.
221
July 22,  n. m.
Visit of U.S.S. AUGUSTA to Japan.
202
11y 22, 5 p. .
Forth China Situetion.
223

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
223
July 22, 7 p. m. North China Situation.
224
July 22, 11 p. m. North Chima Situation.
225
July 24, noon
-Application of Vice Consul Bruner for
Language Assignment.
226
July 27, 7 p. m.
North China Situation.
227
July 27, 9 p. m.
North China Situation.
228
July 28, 3 p. m.
Illness of Miss Russell and Employment
of Mrs. Faust.
229
July 28, 4 p. m.
North China Situation.
230
July 28, 5 p. m.
North China Situation.
231
July 28, 6 p. m.
North China Situation.
232, July 29, 4 p. m.
North China Situation.
233
July 29, 5 p. m.
North China Situation.
234
July 29, 6 p. m. North China Situation.
235
July 30, 10 a. m. Methods of Cooperation with Japanese
Authorities to Curb Narcotics Traffic.
236
July 30, 1l a. m. Ambassador's Leave of Absence.
237
July 30, 7 p. m.
North China Situation.
238
July 31, 1l a. m. North China Situation.
239
July 31, 5 p. m.
North China Situation.

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.93)
LEDAL ADVISER
DIVISION OF
14 1937
OPEAN AFEA
OCT13
DEPARTMENT OPSTATES
ARTMENT
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1937 OCT 4 PM 2 08
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2584.
DIVISIGN CE
COMMUTHTTPNSSeptember 14, 1057.
SUBJECT: REPORT ON CONDTTTONSS
AND RECORDS
SJAPAN DURING THE MONTS
OF UGUST, 1937.
bot.
894.00 P.R.
894.00
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
ON, MID
OF STATE
Division of
TO
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
D
Cr
ONL ANDO.
UCT5-1937
grork
The Honorable
Department of State
OFFICE OF THE ADER CH
ERNATIONAL ECONAS
The Secretary of State,
OCT 1 3 1937RV
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF SITE
Sir:
F
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to trensmit herewith the
Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for the month
of August, 1937.
Respectfully yours,
i
5
3E
Enclosure:
1/ Report No. 131.
Joseph C. Grew.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Embassy, Moscow
Embassy, Nanking
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Osaka
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Dairen
In quintuplicate to the Department.
800
GD:C

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 131.
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF AUGUST, 1937.

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXAND
SUMMARY
I.
RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a) Representations made by the Embassy in
connection with the Sino-Japancse Conflict... 1,2,3,4
(b) Casualties on Board the U.S.S. AUGUSTA....... 4,5
(c) Expressions of Appreciation to thc Am-
ericen Government by the Japanese
Government.
5
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) China.
5,6,7,8,9
(b) Great Britain.
9,10,11,12,
13,14
(c) Frence.
15,16
(d) Soviet Russia.
16,17
(c) Germany....
17
(f) Italy.
17,18
(g) Intcrnational.
18
III. IITERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Cabinet..
18
(b) Political Partics.
18,19
(c) The Diet.
19
(d) The Army.
19,20
IV.
COURSE OF LEG ISLATION.
20,21
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
22,23
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:..
23
(e) Foreign Tredc.
23
(b) Shipping.
23
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL II:TERESTS:
Nothing to report.
DX.
LABOR AND E1IGRATION:
Nothing to report.
X.
MISCELLANBOUS:
Nothing to report.

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Representations made by the Embassy in connection
with the Sino-Japanese Conflict.
The American Government's representations to the Japan-
793.
ese Government relating to the Sino-Japanese conflict are
0
fully covered in the enclosures to the Embassy's despatches
No. 2556 of August 28, and No. 2568 of September 3, 1937.
Pursuent to the Department's instructions, the Ambassador
called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs on August 10 and
informally and confidentially presented the American Govern-
ment's offer of good offices on the basis of the British pro-
posal. The Ambassador said that it had occurred to the
American Government thet either now or later it might be help-
ful for the American Government to errange some neutral ground
for e meeting of Japanese end Chinese plenipotentiaries to con-
duct negotietions and that perheps the American Government might
be helpful if difficulties in those negotiations should arise.
In replying orally to this offer of good offices, the Minister
for Foreien Affairs said that en opening for negotiations had
elreedy bcen mede through the conversation at Shanghei on
Aurust 9 between Mr. Kao, Chief of the Asiatic Bureau of the
Chinese Forcirn Office, and Mr. Kawagoc, the Japanese Ambassa-
dor to Chine.*
In an interview on ugust 13 olicited by r. Horinouchi,
the Vice Minister for Foreign affairs, the Anbassador took the
opportunity, under the Depertment's authorizotion, to say to
the Vice Minister that he desired to support earnestly and to
urge the importance of the representetions made by the British,
Amcrican, French, Germen, and Italion Ambessadors in Nenking
to
* Depertment's telegram No. l40, hugust 7, and Embessy's telegram
No. 254, Aufust 10, 1937.

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
to the Japanese Embassy on august ll to the effect thet the
Japanese should not use Shenghai as e base for hostilities
and thet they should not land further forces there.*
Acting on the Depertment's instructions, the mbessador
called on the Minister for Foreign Affeirs on hugust 16 and
read and hended to him an informel note to the effect that
regerdless of which side wes originelly rosponsible for the
outbreak in Shanghei, if the Shanghci region continued to be
mede the theatre of battle neither side could divest itself of
responsibility, end thet there apperred to be only one hope
of everting further destructive and drngerous military oper?-
tions in Shenghci, which hope lry in the withdrawel by one
side or both sides of its rmed forccs from Shanghai and
from the environs of thet citv.** Five days later the
Embassy received from the Minister for Foreign Affcirs an
informel note, deted hugust 20, in which Mr. Hirote expressed
the hope thet the Jopenese Government's note of August 19 to
the British Chergé d'affaires would be considered sufficient
to serve s an answer to the Amb ssador's informel note of
August 16. The gist of the Japarese Government's note to
the British Chorgé d'affrires was thet the hostilities in
Shenghei would cerse as soon ns the Chinese regulers end the
Peace Preservation Corps wcre evecurted, end thot Jepen was
not in a position to consider the withdrawal of its forces.***
Pursuant
* Telegrem to the Depertment from the Embessy at Nanking,
No. 390, hugust 8, Depnrtment's elegram No. 142, August 9,
and Embassy's telegram No. 264, August 13.
**
Department's telegram No. 149, august 14, end Embessy's
telegram No. 272, August 16, 1937.
***
Embessy's telegram No. 289, August 21, 1937.

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
Pursucnt to the Deper mcnt's instructions, on August 23
the mbessedor mede oral represent tions to the Vice Minister
for Foreign ffeirs in support of the recommendetion of the
americen, British, German, French, snd Italirn Ambessadors
in Nonking thet Jeponesc bombers be instructed to void operr-
tions in a specified res in Nenking embracing the cites of
the five emb:ssies.* The Japenese Government's reply, re-
ccived on august 23, stcted thrt while the Japanese Govern-
ment hed already instructed the authorities concerned to use
utmost cution in order to ensure s frr as possible the safe-
ty of the five enbrssies ot Nnkine nd of the w'rships and
merchont vessels of the five Powers anchored t Nenking, the
Jopenose Govcrnment desired to worn the Powers in advence
thet in cese the Chineso should moke use for ny hostile or
provocative acts of thcir milit-ry works, ost-blishments con-
nected with milit ry operatior, w'rshins, nd fortresses in
the roa specificd by the five mb ssrdors the Jrpenese Govern-
ment mirht be forced to toke nccossory me sures to cope with
the situ-tion.**
Under the Deprrtment's instructions, on hugust 23 the
Ambassador delivered a formrl note to the Minister for Foreign
Affaira which requested an express and specific formal as-
surence by the Jop: nese Government th-t the operetions of the
Japanese rmed forces in Chine would not be directed g inst
or into the city of Tsingtao, whcrc Americn nation ls were
concentrsted.***
Pursuent
Telegrem to the Dep-rtmert from the Embrssy at Nenking,
No. 485, august 21, Dep rtment's telcgr-m No. 158,
August 21, and Embassy's telegrem No. 302, August 23, 1937.
**
Embnssy's telegram No. 302, August 23, 1937.
***
Department's telegrom No. 159, August 21, Embessy's
telegrnm No. 297, august 23, 1937.

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Pursuent to the Department's instructions, the Counselor
of the Embassy celled on the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
on ugust 28 end hended him c note to the effect that the
American Government reserved all rights on its behalf and on
behalf of American nntionals in respect to demages or to loss
of American property or on account of death or injuries sus-
teined by Americrn nationls s a result of the activities of
Japnese ermed forces in the course of or incident to militery
operstions in progress in Chine.*
No reply to the Embassy's representations concerning
Tsingtao end concerning American lives and property in general
were received before the close of the month.
Acting under instructions received from the Depertment,
the Ambassador addressed a note to the Minister for Foreign
Affcirs on August 31 expressing the Americen Government's
hope that every cere would be used by Jepanese military planes
not to mechine-run or bomb trains or otherwise interrupt the
use of the railwey connecting Honkow with Canton and Hong
Kong for the cvacuntion of forcigners from China.**
(b) Casualties on Board the U.S.S. AUGUSTA.
In the course of the Shanghai fighting a small shell ex-
832
811.
ploded on the deck of the U.S.S. AUGUSTA on August 20, killing
one seaman and woundins 18 others.***
Admiral Yarnell, Com-
mander-in-Chief of the American Asiatic Squadron, communi-
cated with the Japanese naval authorities in Shanghai concern-
ing
Department's telegram No. 169, August 26, and Embassy's
telegram No. 326, August 28, 1937.
**
Department's telegram No. 180, August 30, and Embassy's
telegram No. 333, August 31, 1937.
***
Telegram from the Consulate General at Shanghai, No. 531,
August 21, 1937.

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
ing this incident and the American Consul General at Shanghai
informed the Chinese authorities of the affair. The origin
of the shell which fell on the U.S.S. AUGUSTA had apparently
not been determined at the close of the mont.
(c) Expressions of Appreciation to the American Govern-
ment by the Japanese Government.
On August 18 the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed
a letter to the Ambassador expressing the Japanese Govern-
ment's sincere apprecistion for the assistance extended to
Mr. Hidaka, Counselor of the Japanese Embassy in Nanking, and
to other members of the Japanese Embassy there by the repre-
sentatives of the merican Government in China.*
The note of the Minister for Foreign Affeirs dated Aug-
ust 20 in reply to the americen representations concerning
a possible cessation of hostilities in Shanghei ended with
the following sentence: "In addressing Your Excellency this
note I wish to ndd that the Jepanese Government deeply appre-
ciote the friendly attitude which the Americen Government have
consistently maintrined towerd this country.**
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUTRIES.
(a) China.
In the eerly part of the month fighting in North China
spread in thrce directions, thc Japanese forces launching offen-
sives along the Peining-Suiyurn Railwey in Chaher Province and
to the south of Peiping nd Tientsin along the Peiping-Hankow
and
Embassy's telegrrm No. 280, August 18, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 289, aupust 21, 1937.

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
and Tientsin-Pukow Railways, respectively. In these opera-
tions the Japenese conducted airplene bombing of Chinese
forts end troop concentrations.
Negotiations in Shanghai between Mr. Kawagoe, Japanese
Ambassador to China, and Mr. Kao, Chief of the siatic Bureeu
of the Chinese Foreign Office, for e pececble settlement of
the conflict came to neught.*
Tensicn in Shanghoi was grertly increased on August 9
with the killing by Chinese soldiers of ub-lieutenent Oyama
and e seaman of the Japanese naval landing party. The Chinese
forces in and around Shanghai, including regulers and members
of the Peece Preservation Corps, wcre incroased, while the
Japanese neval landing perty was reinforced. On August 13
hostilities on ? feirly lerge scale broke out between Jepanese
bluejackets end Chinese soldiers in Shanghai and continued with
increesing intensity throughout the month. The Japanese auth-
oritics cleimed that they had becn forced to increase their
:evel landing party on account of the presence of lerge numbers
of Chi ese troops in and around Shenghai, that Chinese troops
fired the first shots on august ls, and that an offensive agoinst
the Chinese had been tekcn not beceuse of the killing of Sub-
lieutenant Oyema and the searian but beceuse of the refusal of
the Chinese to withdraw their forces eround the area in Shanghai
forbidden to them by the Shanghai Truce of 1932.
On August 14 Chinese plenes dropped bombs, hether in-
tentinally or not, on the Cathay nd Palace Hotcls in the
International Settlement of Shanghai, on buildings in the
French
* Embassy's telegram No. 254, August 10, 1937.

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
French Concession, and on oil tanks of the Standard, Texas,
end Asiatic Oil Companies. As a result of this bombing a
large number of persons, principally Chinese civilians, wcre
killed. For the rest of the month eerial bonbing operations
were reportedly conducted by the Chinese and, on a lerger scale,
by the Japenese.
On August 23 bombs were droppcd by an eirplene, according
to most eccounts Chinese, on three lerge department stores
in the Internetionel Settlement, inflictirg heavy loss of life.
On August 25 Vice admiral Hasegewa, Commander of the
Third Japenese Fleet, issued e proclamation that from six p.m.
that dey the Jepanosc navel forces undor his command would in-
terrupt traffic by Chinese vessels along e certein portion of
the Chinese Coast. On the followine dey the Japanese Foreign
Officc issued a stetement to the prcss to the effect thnt the
Nevy's "China blockede" measure was solely one of self-defense
against the lewless acts of the Chincse end applied only to
Chinese vessels: and thnt "neaceful commerce" crrried on by
the third Powers would be fully resnccted, sincc the Japenese
Nevy had no intentinn of interfering with it.* In reply to
questions rskcd by the Embassy's Neval Attachć on august 27,
the Senior aide to the Navy Minister said thet Chinese trade
would be interfered with only to the oxtent of confiscating
wer supplies on Chinese ships; thet by "peaceful commerce of
third Powers" was meant ordinery commerce, which now mightiin-
clude cergo of a warlike nature; nd thet wer supplies on borrd
Chinesc vessels omed wholly or in part by n third perty would
be confiscated but that the vessel end the remainder of the
cargo would be subsequently freed.**
For the subsequent eluci-
dation
Embassy's telegrem No. 323, August 28, 1937.
**
Embessy's telegram No. 322, August 27, 1937.

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
dation of the Jepanese Government's "China blockede" policy,
es given to the French Embssy by the Foreign Office, refer-
ence is mede to Section II (c) of the present report, "France".
Jepenese news despetches end nnouncements by the naval
lending headqunrters reported sterdy success by the Japanese
naval lending forces in repulsing Chinese attacks in and
sround Shenghai.
At dawn on ugust 23 troops of the Japanese rmy as well
ns & nevel landing force were lsnded in the region of the
Lower Yengtze to reinforce the naval landing perty already
in Shanghei. All surface vessels of the Combined Japanese
Fleet, including rircraft carricrs, took part in the opera-
tion of tronsporti & these forces from Japan to China.
In eddition to their aeri-l bombing of Shanghai, Jepan-
cse airplanes conducted bombing operations agrinst Chinese
cities end towns in the interior, including Hankow, Hangchow,
Nanchang, Kwangtch, Yongchow, and Chuchow. Nanking was
bombed a number of times by Japarese planes.
Durire the month Japanese nrtionels were cvacuated from
Nanking, Harkow, Sw tow, Tsingtao, Amoy, Yunnan, and other
Chirese cities. Urder iustructicns from the Japnesc Govern-
ment, Mr. Hidoke, Courselor of the Jepanese Embassy in Nanking,
left the capital with the members of the Embassy's staff on
August 16. On the seme day the Foreign Officc spokesmen in
Tokyo statcd thet the departure of Mr. Hideka nd the Embassy's
steff did not mean the bre-king off cf diplomatic relations
with Chine.
Premier Korovc told newspaper correspondents on August 21
thot a policy of "runishing China" had becn substituted for
that of " on-agerevation and local settlement" onuncieted
following

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
following the outbreak of the North China Incident but that
the Japanese objective remained Sino-Japanese cooperation.
Toward the end of the month Domei despatches stated that
the Japanese forces in and around Shanghai were steadily
pushirg the Chinese back. Woosung Fort, the scene of severe
fighting during the l932 Shanghai hostilities, was reported-
ly captured by the Japanese on August 31. Meanwhile, Japanese
Army announcements reported Japanese victories in the Suiyuan
and Chahar areas. The Japanese forces were said to have cap-
tured Kalgan and to have completely repulsed the Chinese "in-
vasion" of Chahar Province. Japanese successes were also
reported along the Peiping-Hankow and Tientsin-Pukow Railways.
However, no contact was reported before the close of the month
between the Japanese units moving southward and the main body
of the Chinese Certral Army massed in the neighborhood of
Paoting.
(b) Great Britain.
(1)
Representations made to the Japanese Govern-
ment by the British Enbassy in Tokyo concern-
ing the Sino-Japanese Hostilities.
The British Chargé d'Affaires called on thc Minister for
Foreign Affairs on August 1l and presented the British Govern-
ment's offer of food offices, leaving with him a brief memoren-
dum embodying the following two noints: (1) The British Gov-
ernment offers to the Japanese (as well as to the Chinese) its
good offices in providing neutral ground where Japanese and
Chinese plenipotertiaries might meet to negotiate, and (2) in
smoothing out difficulties thet might arise during the nego-
tiations.

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
tiations. Mr. Hirota made to the British Chargé d'Affaires
practically the identical statement which he had made to the
American mbassador on August 10 concerning similar repre-
sentations of the United Stetes Government.*
Acting under mendatory instructions received from hs
Government, the British Chergé d'Affaires called on the
Vice Minister for Foreien Affairs on August 13 and urged
the Japenese Government not to use Shanghai as e base for
hostilities and not to land further forces there. In reply,
the Vice Minister stated that the Japenese desired to avoid
hostilities and thet if the Chinese forces would withdraw,
the Japanese forces would likewise withdraw to their original
positions and that some of the Jepenese forces would withdrew
from Shanghei eltogether.**
Pursuart to his Government's irstructions, the British
Chargé d'Affaires called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs
on August 14 and presented to him a communication to the ef-
fect thet the responsibility for the hostilities in Shanghai
could not be evoided by Jepan or by China by argument as to
who sterted firing or whet technical right existed for the
meintenence of troons; that the British Government found it
difficult to reconcile the Japenesc Government's assuronces
thet they were most anxious not to imperil Shenghai with
the measures recently taken because two members of the Japan-
ese naval landing party had been killed "fer outside the city
boindery"; and that for the seke of the good name of Japan and
in the interest of humanity the Japanese Government should
undertake to make every cffort for the avoidence not only of
a
Embassy's telegrams No. 254, August 10, No. 256, August 11,
and Section I (a) of the present report.
**
Embessy's telegram No. 263, August 13, 1937.

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
a recurrence of such incidents but also of "exaggerated
measures" if end when such incidents occurred.*
On August 16 the British Chergé d'Affrires presented to
the Vice Minister for Foreign Affeirs a pro memoria stating
that the situation which had arisen at Shanghai must be con-
sidered as ultimately due to the presence of the Japanese
naval landing party there; that the best practical contribution
which the Japanese Government could make to a solution of the
situation would be to withdraw the naval landing party; and
that the best practical demonstration that the Japanese could
give of their expressed desire to avert danger to foreign
life and property would be the removal of the cruiser
IDZUMO to a more distent station away from the International
Settlement.**
Acting under his Government's instructicns, on August 18
the British Chargé d'Affaires presented to Mr. Horinouchi a
pro memoria to the effect that if both the Chinese and Japan-
ese Governments would agree to withdraw their forces, including
men-of-war, from the Shanghai area and would agree that the
protection of Japanese nationals in the International Settle-
ment and on the extra-Settlement roads should be entrusted
to foreign authoritics, the British Government would be pre-
pared to undertake this responsibility if other Powers would
join the British Government in doing so. On August 19 the
Vicc Minister for Foreign Affairs informed the British Chargé
d'Affaires that Japan would not accept the British proposal
for the reason that foreign forces would not be adequate to
protect Japanese nationals, that it was Japan's duty to pro-
tect its own nationals, and thst the Chinese were entirely to
blame for the present situation.***
In addition, the Vice
Minister
★
Embassy's telegram No. 269, August 14, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 274, August 16, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegram No. 283, August 19, 1937.

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-
Minister handed to the British Chargé d'Affaires a note
the gist of which was thet the hostilities in Shanghai would
cease as soon as the Chinese regulars and the Peace Preserva-
tion Corps were evacueted and that Japan was not in e position
to consider the withdrawal of its forces.*
Under instructions from his Government, on August 21 the
British Chargé d'Affaires sent ? note to the inister for
Foreign Affairs stating that the magnitude of Japanese opera-
tions et Shanghai had been out of all proportion to the compara-
tive unimportance of the incident, namely, the killing of two
members of the Japenese navel landing party, which gave rise to
the incident. thet the Chinese reinforcements of which the Japan-
ese Government comnlcined had only been brought up after the
Japanese had, as a result of that incident, more than dcuoled
their naval strength at Shenghai and lended a large number of
reinforcements there; thet the Japanese Government should re-
alize thet public opinion in Grert Britein end in the world in
generel ttributed the course of events at Shanghei m-inly
to Japenese action there: nd that acceptance by the Japanese
Government of the British Government's propos-l for the with-
drawel of Japarese nd Chinese forccs in and around Shanghei
would et least be a helpful contribution toward ending a
state of effairs potentiully disastrous to others.**
Pursuant to instructions received from his Government,
the British Chergé d'Affaires on August 2l presented e note
to Mr. Hirota steting that the British Government must reserve
all its rights as regerds holding the Japenese Government
resporsible for damage or loss to cither life or property
which
*
Embessy's telegram No. 289, August 21, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 300, August 23, 1937.

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
which might be incurred by British subjects es a result of
action taken by Jepanese forces in the course of the present
hostilities in Chine.* The Japanese Government's answer to
these representations was identical to the cnswer given the
Americen Embessy, i.e., unfevoreble.
On August 23 the British Chcrgé d'Affaires mede oral
ropresentations to the Vice Minister for Foreign Affeirs in
support of the recommendations of the British, Gcrman, French,
Itelian, and American Ambossadors at Nanking to instruct Jap-
anese bombers to rvoid operations in e specified erea of
Nenking.**
Acting under his Government's instructions, on August 25
the British Chergé d'Affaires addressed e lctter to the Min-
ister for Foreign ffairs requesting thet the Japenese Govern-
ment evert hostilities in Tsingtao.***
Pursuant to his Government's instructions, on August 29
the British Chergé d'affrires presonted a note to the Japsrese
Foreign Office concerning the wounding on Aurust 26 by the
machine-gun fire of a Japanese airplene of Sir Hughe Montgomery
Kretchbull-Hugesscn, British ambassedor to China, while the
latter was en route to Shenehai from Nanking by motorcor. The
note requested: (1) & formal apology to be conveyed by the
Japerese Government to the British Government; (2) suiteble
punishment for those resporsible for the etteck; and (3)
an assurance by the Jan-nese authorities thet the necessary
measures would be teken to preve't the recurrence of such
incidents.
On
Embessy's telegram No. 301, August 23, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 302, August 23, 1937.
***
Embessy's teleframs No. 314, August 25, and No. 317,
AuFust 26, 1937.

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
On August 3l the British Chargé d'Affaires associated
himself with the representetions made by his American end
French colleagues end addressed e note to the Minister for
Foreien Affairs conccr ing future Japenese military cction
gainst the use of the railway connecting Hankow with Conton
end Hong Kong sinilar to the note addressed to the Minister
for Foreign Affairs by the Americen Ambassador on the same
day.*
(2) Japanese Reaction to the British Attitude towerd
the Sino-Japenese Conflict.
The Japaress press continued to criticize the British
attitude toward the Siro-Jananese hostilities.** The British
Government's note co cernirg the wounding of Sir Hughe
Montgomery Knatchbull-Hugessen was criticized in a particulerly
adverse manner. In general, the Japanese press asserted that
a Japenese airman could not have been guilty of en attack on
the British Ambessador to Chine and, paradoxically, thet the
letter should have notified the Japanese authorities of his
proposed journey from Nenking to Shenghei. In addition, the
verneculer rewspapcrs asseiled es unfair the British proposal
for neutrlization of Shanghai.
As expressed in privete and public statements, the opinion
of Japanese officials appeared to be thet Grect Britain's
general attitude towerd the conflict was both unrensonnble
end unfeir.***
(c)
Embassy's telegram No. 333, August 31, and Section I of
the present report.
**
Embassy's telegrem No. 232, July 29, 1937.
***
Embessy's telegram No. 262, August 13, 1937.

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
(c' France.
bout the middle of August the Fr nch Ambassador informed
the Minister for Foreign ffeirs that Francc would undertake
to protect Japanese nationels in the French Concession et
Shanghi provided thet the Powers should undertake the pro-
tection of Japanese in the Internetionel Settlement of Shenghei.*
Actine under his Government's instructions, the French
Ambassador addressed e note to the Minister for Foreign Affrirs
on August 20 supporting the British proposal for neutrelization
of the internetiontl ereas in Shanghri by the concerned Powers,
with the understending thet the French forces would remain withir
the French Concession.**
Subsequently, the French Embessy sunported the recommende-
tion of the five Ambassadors et Nenking thet Jepanese bombers be
instructed to avoid operations in & specified crea of Nenking.***
On August 25 the French Ambassador addressed e note to
Mr. Hircte referring to the action of the five Ambessadors in
Nanking end expressing the hope tht all hostility in and
ebout Tsingtec would be svoided.****
In the letter half of the month the French Ambassador,
acting under his Government's instructions, addressed a note
to the Minister for Foreign affairs stating that the French
Government must reserve all its rights as regards holding the
Japenese Government resporsible for demge or loss to either
l'fe or property which misht be incurred by French citizens as
a result of action taken by the Jepenese forces in the course
of
Embassy's telegram No. 283, August 19, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegrem No. 287, August 20, 1937, and Section
II (b) of the present report.
***
Department's telegram No. 158, August 21, Embassy's tcle-
grams No. 295, August 23, end No. 302, August 23, 1937.
****
Embassy's telegram No. 3i7, August 26, and Section I of
the present report.

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.97)
-16-
course of the present hostilities in Chine. The Japenese
Government's answer to these representations wes identical to
the answer given the American Embessy, i.e., unfavcrable.
On August 28 the French Ambessedor sent his Counselor to
the Foreirn Office in connection with the Chine blockade en-
nouncement for the purpose of meking "serious reservtions" re-
arding the ttitude of the French Government end of inquiring
es to the interpretstion of the term "pecceful commerce" men-
tioned in the announcement with refcrence to the Japnese
Navy's intention not to interfcre with such commerce carried
on by third Powers.* Two dnys leter the Foreign Office replied
in writing to the offect thet crms ond munitions crrried on
bonrd thc vessels of third Powers did not come within the
scope of the block-de messure; that, however, the Japenese
Government must insn ct suspected ships for the identifica-
tior of their nation lity in view of the fect thet Chinese
ships had been flyinf fereign fl'gs in order to evede the
applic tion of the blockade decl-ration; ond that future
developments mirht conpel the Japenese Governnent "to devise
more effective and suitrblc measures to stop all importation
of crms and munitions into China".**
On August 31 the French
Ambessodor medo representetions
corcer ins militery cction by the Japsrese ageinst the roilway
connectire Harkow with Canton end Heng Kong similer to the
recommendstions mede on the some dey by the Anerican and
British Embassies.***
(d) Soviet Russia.
There were reperts throurhout the month thet Soviet Russia
was extcrdirg milit ry vid to Chine for the purpose of strength-
ening Chire's resistence ageirst Jepan.
These repcrts were
crtegorically
Embessy's telegr:m No. 323, August 28, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegren No. 329, August 31, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegram No. 333, August 31, 1937.

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
categorically denied by the Tass News Agency on August 13.
On August 29 the Nanking Government announced the conclusior.
of a non-aggression pact between China and Soviet Russia. Japan-
ese officials and the Japanese press alleged that the pact de-
monstrated China's further surservience to the Comintern. The
newspapers in general showed little apprehension over the pact
and expressed the belief that the Soviet Union would profit
more from the pact than would China. Some of the newspapers,
however, reported that the agreement contained secret military
clauses, including stipulations for a defensive and offensive al-
liance, for the supply of war meterials to China by Soviet
Russia, and for concerted deferse of Inner and Outer Mongolia.*
(e) Germany.
The German Government instructed its embassador in Tokyo
not to participate in the collective representations in Tokyo
which urged the Janarese rot to use She rhai as a base fit uil-
tary cneratio s arai st the Chirese.*
The Germen Ambassador supnorted the recomnendation of the
German, American, British, Fr nch, and Italian Ambassadors at
Nanking that Japanese bombers be instructed to avoid operations
in a specified erea of Nanking.**
The Germen Embassy made oral representations at the Foreign
Office on August 25, referring to the action of the five Ambassa-
dors at Nanking and expressing the hope that all hostilities in
and about Tsi etao be avoided.***
(f) Italy.
On August 23 the Italian Anbessador made oral representa-
tions to the Foreign Office in supnort of the recommendation of
the five Ambassadors at Nenking thet Japanese bombers be in-
structed
*Telegram to the Denartment from Embessy at Nanking, No. 390, Aug
ust 8, Department's telegram No. 142, August 9, end Embassy's
No. 265, August 14, 1937.
**Embessy's telegram No. 302, Au ust 23, 1937, end Section I of th
present report.
***Embassy's telegram No. 317, August 26, 1937.

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
structed to avoid operations in a specified area of Nanking.*
On August 25 the Counselor of the Italian Embassy called at
the Foreign Office and, in support of the recommendation of the
five Ambassadors at Nanking, expressed the hope that all hostilities
in and about Tsingtao be avoided.
(g) Internetional.
According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of August 12, Mr. Kuroda,
of the Commercial Bureeu of the Foreign Office, told a representa-
tive of that newspaper on August 11 that by 1938 Japan would have
made the necessary errangements and would surely participate in
any international whaling conference, if invited.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Cabinet.
As in July, during the month of August the interest and ener-
gies of the Cabinet appeared to be concentrated almost entirely
on the China situation. Hence, there is nothing of interest to
report concerning the ectivities of the Cebi-et in so far as in-
ternal political effairs are corcerred.
(b) Political Parties.
The MIYAkO reported a movement among lecders of the Minseito
end Seiyukai for a united front of the Army end the politicel par-
ties with the following platform: (1) in view of the general trends
in the world and especially in the Far East, armaments must be
expanded to the maximum; (2) in expanding its armements
Japan
must help to maintain peace in the Far East and in the world in
general, safeguard its rights and interests, and assure develop-
ment of the Japanese race; and (3) in order to fulfil Japan's na-
tional policy end world mission, the Army should support with force
a foreign policy of internationel justice. The MIYAko stated that
the
Embassy's telegram No. 302, August 23, 1937.

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.98)
-19-
the ideal of the promoters of this movement was a totalitarian
State.
(c) The Diet.
The discussions of the 7lst Session of the Diet, convened
on July 23 and closed on august 8, were domineted by the state
of affeirs in China, which confirmed the view thet there ex-
isted no body of opinion opposed to the prevailing belief thet,
failing a modificetion of China's attitude, resort to force by
Japan was justified.†
(a) The Army.
In an officiel communiqué issued on August 26 by the Wer
Ministry, it was announced that Lieutonent-Generel Sunroku Hata,
a member of the Supreme War Council, hed been appointed Inspector
General of Militcry Education, replncing General Count Hisaichi
Tereuchi, It subsequently became known thrt General Terauchi had
been eppointed Commander of the "North China District Army."**
During the enrly part of the month it was stated to a member
of the Embessy's staff by a reliable informant thet General
Jinzaburo Mazaki had recently been scntenced by a Court Martiel
to six years' imprisonment for his connection with the Inc£dent
of Februery 26, 1936. According to thc Embassy's informant, two
former Army officers involved in the plot gave conclusive evidence
had
at the Court Martial that Ge erel Mazaki had/previous knowledge
of the plans for the revolt and that he hed given the ring-
leaders encouragement. General Mazaki's sentence wes not mede
public
Embessy's despatch No. 2525, Aurust 6, 1937.
**
Telegram to the Department from the Embassy at Nenking quoting
telegram to the Departmert from the Embassy at Pciping dated
September 6, 2 p.m.

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
-20-
public during the month, probebly on account of the serious turn
which the China affair had taken.*
An announcement was made by the War Office on August 14 to
the effect that on that dey the Tokyo Court Martial had sentenced
to deeth Zei Nishida end Kezuteru Kite, civilians, as ring-
leaders in the insurrection of February 26, 1937, and had sen-
tenced Tetsuya Kamekawa and Teruo Nekcboshi, also civilians, to
life imprisonment and threc years' imprisonment, respectively,
for participation in the effair. The War Ministry's announce-
ment stated further that ? part of the plot wes Nishida's plan
to ask Generel Mazaki to be head of a new militery government
in view of the fact that the Generel wes "highly respected" by
the plotters.**
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
A number of importent Government bills were passed by the
Diet in the emergency session of the Diet which wes convened on
July 28 nd ended on Aurust 3. This session of the Diet was
convoked for two rensors: (1) to provide funds to meet the ex-
penses of military oneretions in North Chine, and (2) to cnact
legislation which would eneble the Government more effectively
to conduct milit& ry op rctions against the Chirese. The supple-
me'tary budgcts for financi & militsry onerations in China ere
teken up in Section V of the present report.
As cen be seen from en analysis of the bills passed by
the Diet, the Government's objectives in drafting these emer-
gency bills were to mobilize Japanese industry on a wartime
footing
*
Embessy's despatch No. 2519, August 3, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2551, August 18, 1937.

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.97)
-21-
footing in order to ensure sufficient :
production
of materials essential for the prosecution of hostilities
ageinst China and to establish strict control of Japan's
foreign trade in order to obtain from abroad sufficient sup-
plies of raw materials necessary for the menufacture of muni-
tions and for industrial expansion. For example, to attain
the!first objective, bills were introduced end passed providing
for the control of manufactures in connection with the adjust-
men
of foreign trade and for the encourngement of the arti-
ficlal petroleum industry and of the iron and steel industries.
With regard to the second ohjective, bills were passed giving
the Goverrment authority strictly to control both exports end
imports, end to take appropriate measures for the protection of
Japanese trade interests abroad.
Before the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese conflict, in-
creased imports of raw materiels coupled with decreased exports
from Jenen had begun to endenger the exchange value of the yen.
Therefore, Japan decided to establish a stobilizetion fund for
the nrotection of the yen's exchange value, and hence of Japan's
credit abroed.
The development of hostilities in China made it
even more necessary for Japan to maintain its credit abroad
and thus to ensure a sufficient supply of rew materials required
for the menufacture of munitiors and for the expansion of in-
dustry. Hence, in order to obtein money for the esteblishment of
a stabilizeticn fund, the following bills were introduced in and
passed by the Diet: (1) a bill providing for the reveluaticn of
the specie reserve held by the Bank of Japen, and (2) ε bill
providirf for the utilizetion of the profit realized from such re-
veluation in paying the Bank of Japan for pest purchases of gold,
in buying Government bonds, and in purchasing ndditionel gold
to be madd es a stabilizetion fund for shinment abroad.
v.
2.

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.97)
-22-
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
After having approved supplementary budgets of y10,000,000
and ¥96,800,000 in July for financing Japenese military opera-
tions in Chine, in the first week of August the Diet epproved
944.51
for the seme purpose an additionel supplementery budget of
¥419,635,200.* The ellotments of the last named supplementary
budget, which was promulgrted on August 9, are roughly es fol-
lows: ¥257,000,000 to the War Ministry; ¥95,000,000 to the Navy
Ministry; ¥63,500,000 to the Finance Ministry; cnd ¥4,000,000
to the Foreign Office.**
On August 2 the Cabinet approved provisional increase for
one yeer of the income tex end severel other taxes, the increese
to yield an additional revenuc of ¥102,000,000 to bc applied
to the expenses of militery onerations in North China.***
The
tax increase wes subsequently approved by the Diet. Apropos
of the tax increase, Mr. Toyotero Yuki, Governor of the Benk
of Japen, stated to press representstives on August 2 that the
Government authorities were careful not to plece the burden
of taxation on the masses in the present tax ircrerse; that
the North China incident was but temnorary in nature and cor-
respondingly the present mensure of tex increese was but tem-
porary; end thet the port of the experses of the North China
Incident which could rot be covered by this ncw source of revenue
would be met by public loans.
It was quite apparent, even during the carly part of the
month, thet if the Chine situation developed into an extensive
cempaign Japen would be forced to import considerebly more raw
meteriels for munitions, which would necessitate the further
shipment
Embassy's despatch No. 2525, August 6, 1937.
**
Enbessy's despatch No. 2531, Aurust 6, 1937.
*丰率
Embassy's delegram No. 244, August 3, 1937.

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
shipment of gold abroad. Informed observers were strongly of
the oninion that in order to meet such financial contingencies
and to maintain the yen at a nominal value of one shilling
twopence the Japanese Government before December 1 might be
forced to declare a general suspension of payments for an in-
definite period on all foreign exchange commitments and all
other remittances abroad.*
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Foreign Trade.
Exports from Japan for Aufust amounted to ¥250,34l,000,
while imports into this country were ¥302,954,000, as compared
with July exports of ¥294,267,000 and imports of ¥373,633,000.
This represented an unfavorable balance of trade of only
Y52,613,000, as comnared with an unfavorable balance for July
of Y79,366,000. However, at this season of the year exports
usually exceed imports and thcrefore the unfavorable balence
of trade for the month is a reflection of the Sino-Japanese
hostilities and the necessity of importing large amounts of raw
materials for the munitions industries.
The Ministry of Commerce and Industries reportedly completed
its dreft of en emergency bill, to be presented to the Diet in
September, granting the Commerce and Industry Minister wide
authority in the control of goods involved in foreign trade.
(b) Shipping.
The Ministry of Communications was said to be considering
a bill to be presented at the September session of the Diet
providing broad control of shipping and of the shinbuilding in-
dustry.
VII.
Embassy's telegram No. 258, August 12, 1937.

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR AND EMIGRATION.
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 441 === (confidence 1.00)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTIENT
DURING AUGUST, 1937.
No.
Date
Subject
2519
August 3
Arrest and Trial of General Mazaki.
2520
August 3
Japanese Salmon Fishing in Alaskan Waters.
2521
August 4
Narcotics ex S. S. HEIAN MARU.
2522
August 4
Visit of U.S.S. GOLD STAR.
2523
August 4
Arrest of David Lani Keoahu.
2524
August 5
Political Report for July.
2525
August
7lst Japanese Diet Session.
2526
August 5
Sale of United States Government Land at
Yokohama.
2527
August 5
Embassy Residence Porte Cochère.
2528
August 6
FERNCLIFF Letters Rogatory.
2529
August 6
Bill for Control of Japanese Industry.
2530
August 6
North China Situation.
2531
August 6
Japanese Budgets.
2532
August 6
Anglo-Japanese Relations.
2533
August 7
Cipher Tables.
2534
August 7
Adding-Calculating Machine.
2535
August 7
American Funds in Japan.
2536
August 7
Cipher Tubles.
2537
August 9
Isolation of Japan - Relations with Germany.
2538
August 12
Law Translation for Treasury Department.
2539
August 13
Seventh Quarter Examination of Mr. Johansen.
2540
▲ugust 13
Seventh Quarter Examination of Mr. Schmidt.
2541
August 13
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2542
August 17
Seventh Quarter Examination of Mr. Yuni.
2543
August 17
Seventh Quarter Examination of Mr. Richardson.
2544
August 17
Seventh Quarter Examination of Mr. Caldwell.
2545
August 17
Seventh Quarter Examination of Mr. Johnson.
2546

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Sub ject
2546
August 18
Requisitioning for Use of Japenese Army of
Property of American Citizens.
2547
August 18 Books for Department Library.
2548
August 19 Sino-Japanese Relations.
2549
August 19 Leave of Absence of Mr. Andrews.
2550
August 19
Care of Government Household Furniture in
Rented Quarters.
2551 August 18
Court Martial Sentences for the Civilian
Participants in the February 26 Insurrection.
2552 August 19
Japanese Comment on American Shipping Plans.
2553
August 20 Assignment of Consul Turner to Dairen.
2554
August 26
New York World's Fair, 1939.
2555
August 26
Golden Gate International Exposition, 1939.
2556 ugust 28
Actions of the American, British, and French
Governments with Respect to the Sino-
Japanese Conflict.
2557 August 27
Postponement of tho Proposed Visit of Admiral
Yarnell.
2558 August 27
COpy Of TOKYO GAZETTE.
2559 August 27
Japanese Press Comment on the Secretary of
State's Statement of August 23.
2560
August 28
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2561
August 27
Gray Code Books.
2562
August 30
Telephone Operator.
2563
August 30
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2564
August 31
Visit to Tokyo of the mcrican Track and
Field Team.

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING AUGUST, 1937
No.
Date
Subject
240
August 2, 10 a. m.
Illness of Miss Russell
241
August 2, 11 a. m.
Visit of GOLD STAP to Japanese ports.
242
August 3, 3 p. m.
Whereahouts of McCambridge.
243
August 3, 4 p. m.
Narcotics ex S. S. HEIAN MARU.
244
August 3, 5 p. m.
North China Situation.
245
August 4, 1 p. m.
Gray Code Books
246
August 5, 4 p. m.
North China Situation.
247
August 6, 4 7. m.
Reported Enlistment of American
Aviators for Service in China.
248
August 6, 5 p. m.
North China Situation.
249
August 6, 6 p. m.
Requisition of Funds.
250
August 6, 9 p. m.
North China Situation.
251
August 6, 10 p. m.
North China Situation.
252
Aufust 7, 2 p. m.
North China Situation.
253
August 10, noon
Request for Telegraph Allotment.
254
August 10, 7 p. m.
North China Situation.
255
August 11, 11 a. m.
Visit to United States of Japanese
Police Official to Observe Nercotics
Suppression Methods.
256 August 11, 3 p. m.
North China Situation.
257
August 11, 5 p. m.
North China Situation; Withdrawal
of Japanese Nationals from Yangtze
Valley.
258
August 12, 5 p. m.
Japanese Foreign Exchange Control.
259
August 13, 1l a. m. Revised Japanese Tariff Rates.
260
August 13, noon.
Receipt of Cipher Tables.
261
August 13, 5 p. m.
North China Situation.
262
August 13, 6 p. m.
Shanghai Situetion.
263
August 13, 7 p. m.
Shanghai Situation.
264
August 13, 11 p. m. Shanghai Situation.
265

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No. Date
Subject
265
August 14, 2 p. m.
Shanghei Situation.
266 August 14, 3 p. m.
Shanghai Situaticn.
267 August 14, 4 p. m.
Free Entry for Treasury Attaché's
Official Automobile.
268 August 14, 5 p. m.
Shenghai Situation.
269
August 14, 6 p. m.
Shanghai Situation.
270 August 15, 4 p. m.
Movement of Japanese Troops.
271 August 16, 4 p. m.
Reporting of Consuls on the Current
Sino-Japanese Situation.
272 ugust 16, 6 p. m.
Shanghai Situation.
273 August 16, 7 p. m.
Japanese Navy Department's Statements
to the Naval Attaché on the Sino-
Japanese Situation.
274 August 16, 8 p. m. Shanghai Situation.
275
nugust 18, 10 a. m. Shanghai Situation.
276
August 18, 3 p. m.
Whereabouts of Grinde and Florey.
277 August 18, 4 p. m.
Statements Made to the Naval Attaché
by the Senior Naval Aide on the
Sino-Japanese Situation.
278 August 18, 5 p. m.
Bombing of Kuling.
279 August 18, 6 p. m.
Shanghai Situation.
280 August 18, 9 p. m.
Departure of Japanese Embassy Staff
from Nanking.
281 August 19, noon
Shanghai Situation.
282 August 19, 1 p. m.
Financial Assistance for American
Refugees from China.
283 Zugust 19, 11 p. m. Shangha1 Situation.
284
August 20, 10 a. m.
Reports of Military and Naval Attachés
285
August 20, 4 p. m.
Bombing of American Mission at
Nantungchow.
286 ugust 20, 5 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japan.
287
August 20, 6 p. m.
Shanghai Situation.
288
August 20, 7 p. m.
Shanghai Situation.
289 ▲ugust 21, 9 a. m.
Shangha1 Situation.
290

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
No. Date
Subject
290 August 21, 10 a. m.
Bombing of U.S.S. AUGUSTA.
291 August 21, 11 a. m.
Japanese Planes Instructed to
Avoid Disturbing Kuling.
292 August 21, noon
Arrival of American Refugees in Japan.
293 August 21, 1 p. m.
Manchuria Oil Claim.
294 August 21, 2 p. m.
Bombing of U.S.S. AUGUSTA; Protection
of American Property from Bombing.
295 August 23, 10 a. m.
Restriction of Military Operations
in Nanking.
296 August 23, noon
Pouches Sent in the S.S. PRESIDE!T
TAFT.
297 August 23, 1 p. m.
Exclusion of Military Operations
from Tsingtao.
298 August 23, 4 p. m.
Neutralization of Shanghai.
299 August 23, 5 p. m.
Protection of Americans and American
Property in China.
300 August 23, 6 p. m.
Shanghai Situation.
301
August 23, 7 p. m.
British Reservation of Rights.
302 August 23, 9 p. m.
Restriction of Military Operations
in Nanking.
303 August 24, 3 p. m.
For Commerce from Commercial Attaché.
304
August 24, 4 7. m.
Pouches.
305 August 24, 5 p. m.
Purchase of Transportation for
American nefugees.
306 August 24, 6 p. m.
Firing on merican Oil Tank at
Chinkiang.
307 August 24, 7 p. m.
Evacuation of Japanese from Tsingtao.
308 August 24, 8 p. m.
Protection of American Property in
China.
309 August 24, 9 p. n.
Shanghai Situation.
310 August 25, 10 a. m.
Japanese Acceptance of Invitation to
Participate in the New York World'L
Fair and the Golden Gate International
Exposition.
311 August 25, 11 a. m.
Telegrams.
312 hugust 25, 1 p. m.
Shanghai Situation.
313

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.99)
No. Date
Subjeot
313 August 25, 3 p. m.
Shanghai Situation.
314 August 25, 6 p. m.
Exclusion of Military Operations
from Tsingtao.
315 August 26, 1 p. m.
For Commerce from Commercial Attaché.
316 August 26, 5 p. m.
Japanese Arrest and Search of
Chinese Vessels.
317 August 26, 6 p. m.
Exclusion of Military Operations
from Tsingtao.
318 ugust 26, 8 p. m.
Japanese Press Comment on the
Secretary of State's Statement of
ugust 23.
319 August 26, 9 p. m.
Shanghai Situation.
320 August 27, 3 p. m.
Funds for Assistance to American
Refugees.
321 August 27, 4 p. m.
American Position vis-à-vis Sino-
Japanese Conflict.
322 August 27, 7 p. m.
Japanese Blockade of China Coast.
323 August 28, 9 a. m.
Japanese Blockade of China Coast.
324 August 28, 11 a. m.
American Position vis-à-vis Sino-
Japanese Conflict.
325 August 28, 1 p. m.
Japanese Blockade of China Coast.
326 August 28, 2 p. m.
Exclusion of Military Operations
from Tsingtao.
327 August 29, 9 p. m.
Wounding of British Ambassador to China.
328 August 30, noon
Visit of Mr. McGurk to China.
329 August 31, 2 p. m.
Japanese Blockade of China Coast.
330 August 31, 3 p. m.
Proposal to Avoid Bombing of Tientsin.
331 August 31, 4 p. m.
Employment of Mrs. Faust.
332 August 31, 5 p. m.
Free Entry for Treasury Attaché's
Official Automobile.
333 August 31, 6 p. m.
Hankow-Canton Railway.

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.93)
OF
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OIO HE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
NOV 15 1937
1937 NOV 8 PM 1 52
THE AMEHIUAN niPUOLI
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DIVISOF
Zo, sss.
COMMUN TIONS
Tokyo, Ootober 13, 1907.
AND RELORDS
SUBJECT:
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE MONTH
LEGAL ADVISER
OF SEPTEBER, 1937.
N937
OFFICE OF THE A
DERNATIOAL N
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
NOV 1 6 1937
894.00
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ONI MID
Division of
TRFAIRS
B
The Homerable
of State
The Socretary of State,
COPES SENT TO
Washington.
εge
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the
Embaasy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for the month
PA  AT
of semtember, 1937.
E STAE
Respectfully yours,
A-MC
8
NOV2 4 1007
Enclos
Joseph C. Grew.
eport6. 132.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Embassy, Moscow
Embassy, Nanking
Consulete General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulete, Osaka
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Dairen
in quintuplseete to the Departmant.
800
GDA:C

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 132.
REPORT ON CONDITICNS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MCNTH OF SEPTEMBER,1937.

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.96)
INDEXAND
SUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(c) Representations mcde by the Embassy in
Connection with thc Sino-Japancse
Conflict..
1,2,3,4,5,6
(b)
Jopanese Attitudc Tow rd the American
Position Vis-c-vis thc Sino-Jp nese
Conflict.
6,7
(c)
Radio Brocdcast to the United Strtes by
thc Jeprncsc Vicc Minister for Forcien
Affrirs.....
8
RELATICNS :ITH OTER COUNTRIES.
8,9,10,11
(b) Grert Britain.
11,12,13,14,
15,16
(c) Thc League of Nctions.....
16
(a)
Frence.
16,17,18
(0)
Sovict Russi.
18,19
(f)
Italy.
20
(c)
Sim.
21
(h)
Urucuny...
21
III.
INTERAL FOLITICAL CONDITICNS.
(.)
The Dict..
21,22,23
(b)
The Crbinet....
23,24
(c)
The Army.
25
(d)
The Enpcror..
25
COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
26
J.
GOVERNENT FINANCE.
26,27
VI. GENERAL ECCNOMIC AND FIHACIAL CONLITIONS....
27,28
VII. ACTIVITIES OF JERICIN CCNT ERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREICN COIRERCIL INTERESTS.
Nothing to rcport.
L:BOR JID ELIGR.TION.
Nothing to report.
K.
MISCELLNEOUS.
Nothine to report.

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Representations ade by the Embassy in Connection
with the Sino-Japanese Conflict.
In accordance with the Department's instructions, on Septem-
ber 1 the Ambassador read aloud and handed to the Minister for
Toreign Affairs an aide-mémoire protestirg against the bombing
of Nanking, asking that Japan discontinue activities which re-
sulted in the indiscriminate destruction of non-military property
and in the wounding and painful death of civilians, and requesting
in general that the Japanese Government reirain from attacks upon
defenceless cities, hospitals, trains, and motor cars throughout
China.* In addition, the Ambassador appealed orally to Mr. Hirota
on the basis of humanity as well as practical wisdom to take steps
to avoid the serious risk of injuring Japanese-Americen relations,
which vould inevitably occur if American citizens should be in-
jured by the apparently indiscriminate bombing operations being
carried on by Japanese forces in various parts of China. Mr.
Grew stressed Mr. Hirota's responsibility for guiding the political
relations of Japan, which might be considcred as paramount to mili-
tary considerations. The Minister for Foreign Affairs rerlied to
the Ambassador that it was the intention of the Japanese forces in
China to attack only military establishments but that mistakes
vore unfortunately inevitablo and that he would bring the American
mhassador's representations to the attention of the War and Navy
Ministries.
In reply to its representations of September 1, on September 16
tl. Embassy received from the Foreign Office an aide-mémoire dated
'ember 15, the substance of which was that the Japanese must con-
tinue
Department's telegrams No. 182 and No. 183, August 30, 1937;
Embassy's telegram No. 335, September 1, 1937.

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
tinue bombing operations against Chinese military organs and es-
tablishments in Nanking; that the Japanese Government was prepared
to do whatever lay in its power to facilitate the withdrawal of
nationals of third countries from China in general and to afford
protection to their property; and that nothing was further from the
thought of the Japanese forces than to make attacks in China upon
defenceless cities, hospitals, trains and motor cars not used by
the Chinese for military purposes.*
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, the Ambassador
called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs on September 20 and
nade to him emphatic representations concerning the announced
plans of the Japanese naval forces to bomb Nankine, pointing
out the erave danger to foreien diplomatic establishments and
personnel and to other non-combatants which would inevitably b:
iivolved if any such operations were carried out.
The Ambassador
emnhasized the serious effect on American public opinion which
some accident in connection with such operations would entail,
spoke of the already mounting feeling against Japan in the United
States and in the world at large; stated that by her policy and
course of action Japan was laying up for herself among the peoples
of the world a liability of suspicion, distrust, popular antipathy,
and potential ostracism; and stressed the responsibility which
ievolved upon Mr. Hirota to guide Japan's foreign relations and
o restrein the military and naval forces from action which was
rapidly sacrificing the world's food will. Mr. Hirota listened
revely but made no effort to counter the Ambassador's observationa*
Under the Department's instructions, on September 22 the
Fhassy delivered a note to the Minister for Foreie Affairs strone-
1y
Embassy's telegram No. 379, September 16, 1937.
Tepertment's telegram No. 217, September 19, and Embassy's
tclegram No. 395, September 20, 1937.

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
ly protesting against the projected bombing of Nanking on the
ground that it was contrary to principles of law and humanity and
asserting that the American Government reserved all riehts on its
own behalf and on behalf of American nationals in respect to dam-
ages which might result from Japancse military operetions in the
Nenking area.*
In reply to this note the Ambassador received a note from
the Minister for Foreign Affairs on September 29 which stated in
substance that the bombing of the military facilities and equip-
ment located in and around the city of Nanking wns a necessary end
unevoideble measure for the attainment of the military objectives
of the Japanesc forces; that the bonbing operations by Japenese
forces would be strictly confined to such scope end would not be
aimed at non-combatents, as evidenced by the fact thet warning
was iven even to Chinese non-combatants; thet it was ecrnestly
hoped that the American Government would "cooperete with the Jap-
anese Government" by having Americen officials, citizens, and
visitors take rofuge cwey from Nanking in crse of sdvance werning
by the Japanese authoritius; cnd that the Japanese Government's
view with regard to damages sustained by nationals of third coun-
tries es a result of the present hostilities in China remaincd as
stated in the Jap nese notc of August 31.**
In reply to its note of August 2e concerning the Americon
Government's reservation of rights in respect to injuries to
Americen lives and property in Chine, on September 2 tlic Embassy
received e note from the Foreign Office which stated thent the mili-
tery operations taken by Jepenese forces in C.ine were "confined
to
*
Department's telogrem No. 221, September 21, Embassy's tele-
grem No. 403, September 22, 1937.
**
Department's telegram No. 22l, September 21, and Embassy's
telegrems No. 403, September 22, nd No. 431, September 29,1937.

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.99)
to measures of defense against illegal and provocative acts on the
part of China" and that, therefore, the Japanese Government was not
liable for damages or losses sustained by nationals of third countrie:
as a result of fighting in that area.*
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, the Embassy de-
livered a note to the Foreign Office on September 15 to the effect
that the American Government could not accept the position of the
Japanese Government, as set forth in its note of August 3l, that
it was not liable for damages or losses sustained by nationals of
third countries as a result of fighting in China and that the Ameri-
can Government would be under the necessity of looking to the Japan-
ese Government for compensation for such damage and loss suffered
either by the American Government or its nationals to the e tent
that liability therefor exists under international law.** In a
conversation with the Counselor of the Embassy on Sep: ember 29,
Mr. Yoshizawa, Chief of the American Affairs Bureau of the Foreign
Office, referred to the Embassy's note of September 15 and stated
that it was to be understood by the Embassy that the Japanese Gov-
ernment had not altered the views expressed in the Forein Office's
note of August 31.
Acting under instructions received from the Department and
in association with the British and French Ambassadors, on Septem-
ber 6 the Ambassador addressed a note to the Minister for Foreign
Affairs expressing the hope that the recommendations of the Ameri-
can, British, and French Commanders-in-Chief in Shanghai for the
withdrawal of Japanese naval and Chinese military forces from cer-
tain areas near the International Settlement would be acted upon
favorably by the Japanese Government.*** On September 1l the
Embassy
Department's telegram No. 169, August 26, and Embassy's tele-
grams No. 326, August 28, and No. 337, September 2, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 337, September 2, Department's telegram
No. 205, September 4, and Embassy's telcgram No. 371, Septem-
ber 15,1937.
***Telegram to the Department from the Consulate General at Shanghai
No. 648, September 4, Department's teleeram No. 191, September 4
and Embassy's telegram No. 35l, September 6, 1937.

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.99)
Embassy received from the Foreign Office a note in reply dated
September 1o to the effect that even though Japan and China should
mutually withdraw their respective warships and troops from the
areas specified, it was very likely that Chinese forces would launch
attacks from points outside those areas, and in that event Japanese
warships would inevitably be obliged to respond, thus endangering
quarters where nationals of third countries were residing in the
Concessinns, although Japan desired to avoid that danger.*
Acting under the Department's instructions, on September 15
the Embassy urgently requested of the Foreien Office that the res-
ponsible Japanese military autnorities be directed to exercise every
precaution to the end tat the route and trains by which American
citizens contemplated evacuating from Hankow via Canton should not
be subject to air bombing or to any other form of military action
which might endanger the lives of those Americans.** In response
to several requests for a favorable reply to these representations,
the Foreign Office informed the Embassy on September 20 that instruc-
tions had been issued to the Commander-in-Chief of the Third Fleet
directine that no offensive opcrati ns be undertaken against the
Hankow-Canton Railway bcfore ten o'clock on the morning of Septem-
ber 26, 1937.***
In accordance with the Department's instructions, the Am-
bassador called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs on September 17
and left with him a note which called attention to the bombing attack
on September 12 by Japanesc airnianes on an American missionary hos-
pital at Waichow, Kwangtung Province, South China, and protested
ageinst such attacks on non-combatants and humanitarian establish-
ments. Furthermore, the Ambessader told Mr. Hirota thet such in-
cidents
Department's tclegram No. 191, Scptember 4, Embassy's telegrams
No. 351, Soptember 6 and No. 362, September 11, 1937.
**
Department's telegram No. 207, September 14, and Embassy's
telegrams No. 375, September 16, 1937.
Embassy's telegran. No. 390, September 19, and N.. 394,
Scptcmber 20, 1937.

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
cidonts created a seriously adverse impression not only on the
American Government but also on the Americen public. The Foreign
Orfice's formel reply, received by the Embassy on September 20,
expresscd the "sincere regret" of the Japenese Government for the oc
currence at Waichow, which was said to have been due to confusion
of the hospitel with a Chinese wireless station, and stated that
the Japanese Government was prepercd to give favoreble considera-
tion to indemnifying the hospital and its employees.*
Pursuant to the Departmcnt's instructions, the Counselor of
the Embessy called on the Chief of the American Affcirs Bureau of
the Foreign Office on September 18 and referring to reports that
the Japanese hed dismantlcd the Chinesc meteorological station on
Prates Reef, pointed out the dangcrs to which shippine mieht there-
by be subjected. Ho also cellcd ettention to statements mede by
Jepanese officials to the effect thet the Japanese Government had
no territorial ambitions in China. Mr. Yoshizawa replicd that the
Japenese Navy would shortly resume oneration of thc meteorological
and radio stations on Pratas Recf. Mr. Yoshizawa further stated
that hc could officially declare thet Japenese military und naval
forces were occupying erees in China solely for the prosecution
of necessary operetions against Chinese forces and that such occu-
petion did not compromise previous declarations of the Japanese
Government that Jepan had no territorial embitiuns in China. **
(b) Japanese Attitude Toward the American Position
Vis-a-vis the Sino-Japanese Conflict.
Up to the end of the month both Japanese officials and news-
papers continued to express appreciation over the attitude taken by
the
* Department's telegram No. 210, September 16, and Embassy's
telcgrams No. 381, September 17, No. 392, September 20, and
No. 397, September 20, 1937.
**
Department's telegram No. 206, Sentember 14, Embassy's tele-
gram No. 385, September 18, 1937.

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
the American Government with respect to the Sino-Japanese hostili-
ties.* While it appeared that the American Government had succeeded
in making clear to the Japanese Government and people that Japanese
policy and actions in China were as repugnant to the United States
as they were to Great Britain, the Japanese approved of the methods
adopted by the American Government in contradistinction to those
adopted by the British Government. There wes no display on the
part of the press of animosity or invective toward the United States.
For example, an officer in the Japanese War Office told the
Embassy's Military Attaché on September 22 that the Japanese decply
appreciated the strictly neutral attitude maintained by the United
States Government tovard the "China Incident.".** It was stated
to the Embassy b: a Japanesc official that thc Foreign Office
felt setisfaction over thc proclamation issued by the President on
September l4 to the effect that vessels owned by the Americen
Govornment would be prohibited from carrying arms and munitions to
China and Japan and that any other American merchant vesscls attempt-
ing to transport arms end munitions to tiose countrics would do so
et their own risk. The President's partial arms cmbarco also re-
ceived the anproval of the Jepanese press.***
In eddition, the vernacular newspapurs cxpressed satisfaction
over the allcged Americen reaction to the warning issucd by Vice
Admiral Hascgawe to the diplomatic repressntatives of the Powers
in Nanking. The Osaka ASAHI seid that the temporary withdrawal
from Nanking of ur. Johnson was in keeping with the Americen Govern-
ment's policy of strict neutrality. Besides, the Amcrican Govcrn-
ment's policy of evacueting Americen nationals from China met with
favor in the press.
(c)
Embassy's despatch No: 26l5, October 2, 1937.
**
Embessy's telegrem No. 404, September 22, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegram No. 376, September 16, 1937.

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
(c) Radio Broadcast to the United Stetes by the Japanese
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs.
On September 1, Mr. Hori nouchi, the Vicc Minister for Foreign
Affeirs, made e radio broadcast to the United Stetes in which he
defended Japan's actions in China on thc eround of China's anti-
Jcpenese acts end asserted that Jepan's intentions were peaceful;
steted that the ultimate object of the present hostilities in
Nnrth China and Shanghai was the rcalization of a state permitting
genuine cooperatinn between the two countries; cnd declcred that
the Jepanese expeditionary forces in China had not been sent there
for aggressive purposes and thet Jepan hed no territorial designs.
Mr. Horinouchi's redio address was similer to speeches subsequent-
ly medc in the Diet by the Minister for Foreien Affeirs end the
Prime Minister. Apparently, Mr. Horinouchi's speech received
little attention in the United States.*
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(e) China.
According to the informetion available to the Embaasy, the
Japenese forces in thc Shanghei area mede steedy but slow advances
ageinst the Chinese forces during the month. The Chinese forces,
numerically much larger than those of their opponents but handicepped
by a shorteec in heavy artillery and airplenes, reportedly of-
fered stubborn resistence to the Japanese.
On the other hand, the Japanese units operating along the
Peiping-Suiyuan, Peipinr-Hankow, end Tientsin-Pukow railways re-
portedly echieved marked and rapid successes in their advences
against the Chincse troops. Tatung, ε stratecic point in the
eastern
Embassy's telerram No. 336, September 2, Department's telegrem
No. 190, September 4, Embassy's telecram No. 346, September 5,
1937.

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.99)
eastern part of Shansi Province on the Peipine-Suiyuan Railway,
was captured by the Japarese on September 13. After a battle
said by Domei to have been the largest engagement in which the
Japanese Army had taken part since the Battle of Mukden against
the Russians in 1905, the Japanese occupied Chochow on the
Peiping-Hankow Railway on September 17. A week later they cap-
tured Paoting, the point at which there had been a large concen-
tration of Chinese Central Army troops since the early stages of
the conflict in North China. It was reported by Domei that by
September 28 the Japanese Army had advanced more than 50 miles
south of Paoting. On September 24, the day of the occupation of
Paoting, Tsangchow, reportedly an important strategic point on
the Tientsin-Bukow Railway, was taken possession of by the Japanese
forces operating along that line.
Meanwhile, Japanese air raids continued both against coastal
and interior cities in Central and South China. Nanking and Canton
were repeatedly bombed from the air. The Japanese authorities re-
ported heavy damage to military establishments in those cities while
the Chinese authoritics, as well as certain foreign observers, re-
ported slight damages to military objectives but large losses of
civilian life and serious damages to non-military establishments.
Japanese airplanes also bombed the following places: Hankow,
Swatow, the Boca Tigris forts on the estuary of the Canton River,
fortifications on Bias Bey, and Shekwan, on the southwestern coast
of Kwantung Province.
On September 23 the Japenese Navy Office issued a communiqué
stating that during the period frcm August 14 through September 22
the Japanese naval air forces had destroyed 284 enemy eirplanes
and

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.99)
and that the Japanese planes lost since the outbreak of the "China
Emergency" numbered only 3l. However, Lieutenent Commander Ofstie,
the Assistant Naval Attaché of the Embassy, who made an inspection
tour in China during the month under review, estimcted that the ef-
fective Chinese planes at the beginning of the present conflict
amounted to only 150, of which roughly lo0 had been put out of com-
mission, and that the Jepanese eirplane losses had been also about
a hundred.
With reference to the bJockade of the China Coest by the Japan-
ese Navy, on September 2 the Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs
told foreign press correspondents that ships of third powers speci-
ficelly employed for the purpose of carryine war supplies to the
Chinese could not be considered as being "engaged in peaceful com-
merce".*
On the following day the Senior Aide to the Navy Minister
told the Embassy's Naval Attaché thet if thc supply of war materiels
to China became greatly increased so that a "situation like Spain"
should arise, Japan would have to chanee its present concept end
thet e distinction might have to be drawn between a vessel engaged
in carryine cargo in the ordinary wey, even thouch such cargo might
include munitions, end a vcsscl snccifically cmploycd to carry muni-
tions.
On September 3 the Japanese naval authorities announced
thet the wholc Chinesc Coest, with the exception of Tsingtao and the
forcin concessions, would henceforth be closed to Chinese vesscls.
The Forcin Officc sent memoranda to various embassies and lega-
tions in Tokyo on September 18 warning that Chinese vessels trans-
ferred to foreign registry after August 25, l937, for the purpose
of evading the Japanese blockade would not be recognized as forcign
ships by the Jepanese Navy.**
Gencral Sugiyama, the War Minister, stated in the Diet on
September 5 that the Japenese Army was determined to deel with
the
*
See Section I (a) Chine, of the Embassy's Monthly Report for
Au€ust 1937.
**
Embassy's telegrem No. 389, September 19, 1937.

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.97)
-11-
the Chinese Army thoroughly and completely, to eliminate hostility
ecainst Japan, and to destroy the fighting spirit of the Chinese.*
On September 25, eccording to Domei, e spokesman of the Japanese
North Chine Garrison told ncwspaper men that the "pecificction
cempcicn" egeinst the Chinese appeered to be nearing completion by
virtue of the occupation on the previous day by Japanese troops of
Feoting and Tsangchow; thet the Jopanese forces would not end the
campairn, however, until the Chinese effcctively corrected their
anti-Jepanesc attitude; and thet the Japanese were determined to
insurc peace in the Urient by uprooting communist influcnce in
China.
Domei reported thet the Nanking Government was withdrewing
its Embassy from Japen. Thc spokesman of the Chincse Foreign Office
informcd the American Embassy in Nenking, however, that there wes no
truth in this report.**
A Domei despatch from Kelgan dated September 3stated that a
"provisional cutonomous" government for South Chaher had on that day
been csteblished at Kalcan.
C
(b) Grcet Britain.
1.
Representations ade to the Japenese Government
by the British Embassy in Tokyo concerning the
Sino-Jap:nese Conflict.
Under instructions from London and in association with the
American and Frunch Ambassadors, on September 7 the British Am-
bassador presentea a notc to the Foreien Office expressing the
hope thet the recommendations of the British, Amcrican, and
French
*
Embessy's telcgram No. 347, September 5, 1937.
**
Telegram to Department from Embassy at Nanking, No. 689,
Scntember 20, 1937.

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.98)
French Commanders-in-Chief in Shanghai for the withdrawel of Jap-
anese naval and Chinese militery forces from certain areas near
the Internationel Settlement would be acted upon favorably by the
Jepanesc Government.*
The rcply of the Foreign Ofrice was similar
to the reply received by the Americin Embassy concernine the same
mettcr.
On September 6 the Foreicn Officc handed to thc British Em-
bassy an "ed interim" reply to thc British Embassy's notc of Aug-
ust 29 concerning the woundi..e of Sir Hughe Monteorery Knatchbull-
Hugcssen, the British Ambassador to China. The Japanese reply
stetcd that up to tae prcuent investizations had failed to produce
any evidence that the shooting was donc by a Japencse plane, and
that consequently it wes still inpossible to detcrmine whcther the
responsibility rested with Japan.** The formal reply of the Japan-
ese Government was received by the British Embassy on September 21.
It statcd thet the Japenesc Government considered that the incident
mirht have been cruscd by Japanese planes which had misteken the
Ambessador's motor car for a military bus or truck; thct the Japan-
cse Government therefore desired to convey to the British Govern-
ment "c formel expression of its decpcst regret"; end that with
recard to the question of the puni hment of the eviators concerned,
it was "ncedlcss to say thet the Japanesc Government would take
suiteblc stens whencver it was established that Japanese aviators
killcd or wounded, intentionally or through negligence, nationals
belonging to a third country."*** After referencc of the Japanese
reply to London, thc British Ambassador hended to the Minister
for Forcien Affeirs on Scptember 23 a brief notc in which it was
stated
*
Telegram to the Depertment from the Consulate Gencral at Shanghai
No. 648, September 4; Depertment's telcgram No. 191, September 4;
and Embassy's telcgram No. 352, Septcmber 5, 1937.
**
Embessy:s telegrems No. 327, August 29 and No. 35, September 7.
***Embassy's telegram No. 402, September 22, 1937.

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.97)
statcd that the British Government "received the communication with
setisfention end regerds the incident es closed."*
Under his Govcrnment's instructions, Sir Robert Craigic, the
British Ambassedor, presented to the Vice Minister for Forcign
Affairs on Sentumber 13 a mcmorandum requesting en explanation
end e clcrification of the Japenese Government's request of Aug-
ust 23 to the Powers to m rk their merchant vessels at Nanking
plainly so that they might be tsily identified from the eir in
anticipation of possiblc rrids by Jupenose bombers. In nddition,
thc British memorandum brought cut curtain points of internationel
law releting to the status of merchant vusscls cnd  ssertud that
the British Governnent would be compelled to teke a very serious
view of attacks by Japanese airplenes on British merchent vessels.
Mr. Horinouchi replicd thct, while he took no exccption to the Am-
bessedor's raisine these points or international lcw, nevertheless
the action apperrcd superrluous because the Japenese forces had no
intcntion of ettacking neutral mercient ships whether morked or not.
the Jepanese Government having recommended plain merking merely to
rake essurence doubly sure.**
On September 1l the uritish Ambassador adaressed a communi-
cation to the Foreign Office stating that while the British Govern-
ment did not recognize the Japenese Government's riht to take
the measures contemplated in its statements of August 26 and Sep-
tember 5 concerning the "China blockade", the British Government
would in practice agree to the verification of shins flying the
British flag on the following two conditions: (1)
that if a
British
*
Embassy's despatch No. 26ll, September 30, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegrams No. 363, September 12, and No. 368, Sep-
tember 14, 1937.

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.99)
3ritish man-of-war should be present, the Japanese man-of-war
should ask her to verify the right of the ship to fly the British
flae, and (2) that if no British .an-of-war should be present,
the British Government would not stand on its rights but would
permit a Japanese officer to board the ship suspected of not
being entitled to fly the British flag and to examine the cer-
tificates of registry, provided that the Japanese man-of-war
simultaneously made an immediate report to the British naval
authorities.*
Soon after the middle of the month the British Embassy
approached the Japanese Government with repard to the reported
dismantling by the Japanese of the meteorological station on
Pratas Reef, and in reply tne Japanese Government gave assurances
that the services of the meteoroloical station would be shortly
resumed by thc Japanese authorities. The British Embassy was
apparently satisfied with this reply.**
The British Ambassador eddressed a letter to the Vice Mi.-
ister for Forcin Affairs on September 26, calling to his atten-
tion the damages caused by Japanese aerial bombine to British
interests in the northcrn section of Nankine, requesting the
Japanese Government to send dcfinite instructions to the appro-
priate authoritics to avoid in future bonbing of the northern sec-
tion of Nanki.&, and statin that the British Chargé d'Affaires,
togcther with his staff, must neccssarily remain in Nanking as
long as the Chi .ose Government remained there. On September 27
the British Ambassador left with tlie Vice Minister an extract
from a telogran from the British Chareć d'Affaircs at Nanking
concerning further Japanese bombing opcrations ovcr Nanking on
September 25 and demagus caused thcrcby. According to informa-
tion furnished to the Embassy by thc British Embessy, the Vice
Minister told thc British Ambassador thet he hed received a
definite
* Embassy's telcEran No. 373, Septembcr 15, 1937.
**Embassy's telcgran No. 385, Scptember 18, 1937.

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.96)
that there would be no further bombing of Nanking after Septomber 25
In this connection it should be noted that on September 28 eleven
Japenese airplenes reided Nanking and dropped bombe on the city.**
In reply to thc Japanese Government's stetement of September 18
re erding the transfer after hu ust 25 of Chinese vessels to the
reristry of forcien countrius,*** on Soptembur 28 the British Am-
bessador addrcssed e letter to the Minister for Foreign Affairs
steting that if e velid transfer hcu taken place and the vessel was
untitled to fly the British fleg, the fuct thet thc transfer had
tikcn plate since Aueust 25 hnd no bearing on the metter, end that
thc British Governncnt could not ecquiesce should the Japenese Gov-
crnment assumc the attitude thet it would not reconize valid trans-
fers effccted sutscquent to August 25.****
In reply to the British Ambussedor's second note concerning
the British Government's reservation of rights as to losses end
damagos susteined by British subjects in China, the Forcien Office
sert a note to the British Embassy on Septomber 28 statine that
the Jepenese Government adhered to the view which it set forth in
its note dated Suptembe: 3, namely, that the Japanese Government
was not linble for damages or losses sustcinca by nationels of third
countries us e re..ult of fichting in Chinc.*****
On September 30 the British Ambessador called the Foreign
Officc's attention to thc extent to which thc civilicn population
in Canton hnd suffered es thc rosult of the bonbing of that fity
by Jananese airnlones.******
(2) Japanese Attitude Toward Greet Britain's
Position vis-:-vis thc Sino-Japanesc Conflict.
Bitter
*
Embassy's telcgrans No. 420 end 421 of Septe tcr 27, 1937.
**
Department's telegram No. 238, Scntember 29, 1937.
***
Soc Scction II (a) of the present report.
***
Embessy's tc1cerams No. 389, Scptcmber 19, nc No. 429, Scptcm-
bcr 28, 1937.
★***
Embassy's telceram No. 430, Scptember 28, 1937.
****
Embessy's tcleerem No. 436, Suptember 30, 1937.

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.97)
Bitter comment continued to appear in the Japenese press
throughout the month on the attitude taken and the methods em-
ploycd by Great Britein with respect to the hostilities in
Chinc.*
(3) Arrivel of new British Ambessedor, Sir Robert Creigie.
Sir Robert L. Craigic, newl, cppointed British Ambassador
to Japan, arrived in this country on September 3 and on September 1l
precented his lctters of crcdence to the Emperor.
(c) The Leaguc of Nations.
Japanose officials and the Japanese press emphatically de-
nounced the dccision of the advisory committec of 23 of the League
of Nations to hold discussions concerning the Sino-Japanese conflict
end also the Lee uc's rcsolution condemning Japanese acrial bomberd-
ment of undefended citics with thc conseguent death of civiliens,
i:cluding women and chiluren.**
On September 26 the Japenesc Gov-
the
crnment sent a formal ruply in rejection of/ivitetion of the Leaguc
of Nations to participate in the mectings of the committec of 23 for
deliberation on the Chi cse appecl, which urgec thct the League de-
nounce Jepan as thc εEressor in the Sino-Jcpenese hostilities and
check the aggression.
There was no indicatinn during the month
thet Japan felt in any way less secure in the face of . possible
intervention in tho Sino-Japanese conflict by the League of Nations
or by othcr third pertics.
(d) France.
(1)
Representetions macc to the Japanese Government
by the French Embessy in Tokyo conccrninE the
Sino-Jancnesc Conflict.
751.9
Under his Goveinment's instructions and in association with
thc American and British Ambessadors, on Septumber 6 the French
Ambassador
*
Embassy's tclegram No. 430, Scptember 28, 1937.
**
Embassy's despctch No. 26l4, October 1, 1937.

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.96)
imbassedor presented to thc Foreien Officc e note expressing the
nope that the recommendations of the French, American, and British
Commanders-in-Chicf in Shan hai for the withdrawel of Japanese
naval and Chincse military forces from certein arcas neer the
Internetional Settlemcnt would be actea upon favorably by the Jap-
enese Government.*
The Japencse Government's reply wes similar
to thc replies sent to the Americen nd British Embassies.
On September 13 the French Ambassador cellcd on thc Minister
for Foreign Affairs and left with him & note verbele expressing the
hope that the current presence of Japenese warships in the vicinity
of the Island of Hainan would in no way result in altering the ter-
ritorial status of the Island, becausc France was interested in
the meintenance of thc status quo. Monsieur Arsène-Henry called on
the Vice Minister for Forcien Affairs on September 24, invited his
attcntion to the reported bombing by the Japancse Navy of Heinan
Islend, and sought assurances thct the Japanese had no intention
of occupying the Island. Corroboreti e stetements made by Japanese
military and navel aut.orities to the Frcnch Military and Naval
Attachés that the Isi nd of Hainan would not be occupied, the Vice
Minister gave his own essurances in addition.**
About the niddle of Scptember the French Embassy approached
the Jepanesc Government with regard to the reported dismantling
by the Japanese of the Chinose mcteorological station on Prates
Rcef. In reply, the Jepanese Government gave assurances thet the
services of the metcorologicel station would be shortly resumed by
the Japenese authoritics. Thcse essurances apperently satisfied
the French Embassy.***
Pursuant
*
Tclcrrem to the Dopartment from the Consulate Gencral at Shanehai,
No. 648, Septcmber 4; Department's telcgram No. 191, September 4;
end Embessy's tclegram No. 351, Sptember 6, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegrem No. 413, Scptember 25, 1937.
***
Embessy's tclegram No. 385, September 18, 1937.

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
Pursucnt to instructions received from his Government, on
September 27 the French Ambesscdor cauressed a note to the Min-
ister for Forein Affeirs protesting against the bombing by Japen-
esc planes of the French Catholic Mission t Sienhsien, Hopei
Province, and statine thet the French Government intended to make
formal reservations recarcing the rights of French charitable in-
stitutions to recovery for dameges caused to them.*
(2) Rumored Frenco-Chinese Non-Aggression Pect.
A Shanghai cable sent to the YOMIURI on September 25 reported
751.9411
that China and France had reached in principle an understanding to
conclude a non-ageression pact and that "feverish diplomatic efforts
were being made to include the Soviet Union, Great Britain, and
the United States in a new anti-rascist combination. French of-
ficials in Paris categorically denied this report. emphasizing that
no negotiaticns in this matter had taken place.
(e) Soviet Russia.
16
Though
relatively quiet on the surface, Soviet-Japanese
relations became more anc more delicate during the month.** Several
minor incidents occurred, such as the arrest and detention by Soviet
Russians of Japanese fishi. vessels off the Ruscian coast, alleged
mistreatment of Japanese nationals in nortn Saghalien, and the
closing by the U.S.S.R. of the Japanese Consulates in Odessa and
Novosibirsk.
However, there were other developments of a more serious
nature which were connected with the present Si: o-Japanese hostili-
ties.
*
Embacsy's telegram No. 422, Sentember 27, 1937.
**
Embassy's desnatch No. 26lć, October 1, 1937.

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.98)
tres. Ihe repercussions in Japan to the conclusion on August 21
of the Sino-Soviet non-aggression pact, together with rumors that
a secret military agreement hed been concluded between China and
the U.S.S.R., caused an increased tensity in Japanese-Soviet rela-
tions.* Furthermore, rumors persisted that Soviet Russia had made
definite arrangenents to give military aid to China by selling war
plenes to that country and sending Soviet pilots to man them.**
There were also reports that the Soviet Union was massing troops
on the "Manchukuo" border.
According to a Domei despatch from
Moscow dated September 27, Soviet Government officials denied
this rumor.
The Embassy hears on reliable authority that the possibility
that Soviet Russia might ally itself openly with China was con-
sidered serious by thc Japanese military; that steps had been taken
to reinforce the Kwantung Army as a protective measure; that there
wes a strong feeling ancng the yo nger army officers that war might
just as well come soon, sincc Russia would have to be fought some
time; and that, nowever, plans had not been made to bring on a
Soviet-Japanese war soon.
It was reported by the Tass News Agency that immediately
upon receipt of the notificction by Vice Admiral Hasegawa, Commander
of the Japanese Third Fleet, that Nanking would bc bombed from the
air, the Soviet Consul General at Shanghai had lodged a protcst with
the Japanese Co.sul General there against the "intended unlawful
actions" by the Japanese military. According to Domci, a week later
the Soviet Ambassador in Tokyo delivercd a notc to the Japanese
Minister for Foreien Affairs formally notifying the Jepanese Gov-
crnment that the Sovict Embassy would not be evacuated from Nanking
end that the Soviet Government would hold the Japanese Government
responsiblc for any damage resulting from bombing of that city by
Japancsc plenes.
(f)
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2571, Septcmber 3, 1937.
**
Telegram to the Department from the Embaesy at Nenking, No. 733,
September 29, 1937.

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.98)
(f) Italy.
Rumors persisted that the Japanese and Italian Governments
745.94
were conducting negotiations for thc conclusion of an anti-
communist pact similar to the German-Japanese anti-communist pact.
However, a spokesman of the Japanese Foreign Office told foreign
press correspondents on Scptember l3 that, while Italy and Japan
had e common interest against inroeds of communism, there hed been
no negotictions between the two countrics for the conclusion of
such e pect. Much the same thing was said to & Secretery of the
Embassy by the Counselor of the Italian Embassy, who explained
that a formel anti-Comintern agrcement between Italy and Japan
was unnecessery, since thc views of the two countrics regerding
communism werc so similar.* With rugerd to the trede agrcement
being negotictcd by Italien and Japanese officials in Rome, the
Counselor of the Italian Embassy said that the proposed treaty
dealt chicfly with the question of extending the existing trade
facilities bctwecn Jcpan cnd Itcly to include trede with Ethiopic
and thet "Manchukuo" would latcr be included in some form of trade
agrecment, although de jure recogniticn of "Manchukuo" was not
contemplated.
Judging from news reports from Italy, it appeared that
the opinion of the Italian Government was shaping in favor of
Japan, particularly i: view of the conclusion of the recent
Sino-oviet Non-Aggression Pact. For instance, the NICHI NICHI
of September 17 reported that when interviewed by radiophone
on September l4 by this newspaper, Signor Virginio Gayda, editor-
in-chief of the GIORNALE L'ITALIA and spokesman of Premier
Mussolini, had stated that the conclusinn of the Sino-Soviet
Non-Aggression Pact had entitled Japan to wage a "holy war"
against the communists in China.
(g)
* Embessy's despatch No. 26l3, October 1, 1937.

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
(g) Siam.
The Foreien Office announced during the month that the
negotiations between Japan and Siam for the conclusion of a new
treaty of comnerce and navigation were proceeding favorably and
that the treaty would probably be concluded in the near future.
(n) Uruguay.
The CHUGAI and the JAPAN TIMES stated that the Japanese
Government had concluded an agreement with Uruguay providing
for a revision of Uruguay's Exchange Control Law to allow a l0
per cent increase in the amount of imports from Japan, which would
bring the Uruguayan imports from Japan up to 85 per cent of the
exports from Uruguay to Japan.
III. INTERIJAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) The Diet.
794.32
The 72nd Session of the Diet was formally convened on Sep-
tember 4 and was adjourned on September 8, the Government's emer-
gency budget and all the Government's bills having been passed.
The lerislation enacted is taken up in Section Iv of the present
report.
On September 5 addresses were delivered by the Minister
for Foreign Affairs, the Premier, the Minister for Finance, the
War Minister, and thc Navy Minister. After outlining the Japancse
Government's version of the present hostilities in China, with
particular reference to the "provocetive and anti-Japanese attitude"
of the Chinese, Mr. Hirota stressed the following points:
that
the Nanking Government and the local militarist régimes in China
had for many years been inciting Chinese public opinion aainst
Japan as a means of strengthening their own political influence;
that in collusion with communist clements they had still further
impaired Sino-Japanese relations; that obviously the basis policy
of

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.99)
of the Jepanese Government aimed at the stabilization of Eest Asia
throuch conciliation and cooperation emong Jepen, "Manchukuo", and
Chine for their common prosperity cnd well-bcing; that China, ig-
noring Jepan's true motive, had mobilized her "vest armies" against
Japan, with the result that Jepan hcd hcd to resort to force of arms;
that Japan hać no other objective than to see a "happy and tranquil
North China"; and that Japan wanted all China to be freed from the
danger of a recurrence of such calamitous hostilities as the present.
The Minister for Foreicn Affairs ended his speech by expressing the
hope that the statesmen of China would turn over a new leaf and
would act in unison with the "high aims and aspirations of Japan,"*
PremierHirota asserted that since the outbreak of the
"affair in North China" on Juiy 7 the fundamental policy of the
Japanese Government toward China had been simply and purely to seek
the reconsideration of the Chinese Government and the abandonment of
its erroneous anti-Japanese policies, with a view toward making a
basis readjustment in the relations between the two countries;
that because of the acgravation of the situation by the Chinese, Japan
had been forced to deal a "firm and decisive blow" agaiist the
Chinese Governnent; that the adoption by one country as a nation-
al policy of a movement such as that edopted by China against Japan,
includine the underlying principle of national education by im-
planting such a policy in the minds of the young, was "unprecedented
in the history of the world"; that Japan was firmly convinced that
it was in accordance with "the right of self-defense and with the
cause of righteousness and humanity" that Japan had armed to give
a decisive blow to such a country, so that it might reflect upon
the erroFs of its ways; and that at the present moment the sole
measure for the Japanese Empire to adopt was to administer a
thoroughgoing blow to the Chinese Army so that it might lose
completely its will to fight.**
After
Embassy's telegram No. 340, September 4, 1937.
** Embassy's telegram No. 343, September 5, 1937.

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.98)
After ennouncing that the extraordinery militery estimates
were ¥ 2,020,000,000, the Finance Minister stated that these
extraordinarily heavy expenditures had been made necessary for the
nunishment of the lawless Chinese Army and for a reconsideration
of its attitude by the Chinese Government; that the exportation of
cormodities required in the emergency situation would be restricted;
that the importation of unnecessary commodities would be restricted;
that a bill would be introduced eivine the Government virtually
complete control over financing and extension of credit to indus-
try; that another bill authorizing the Governument to take over
specie in private hands and also foreign negotieble securities
owned by Japanese subjects would be introduced; and that the Gov-
ernment would continue to maintain the exchange value of the 
yen at one shilling twopence.*
The most pertinent portion of the Wer Minister's address
was mentioned in Section II (a), "China", of this report. The
Navy Minister's addr ss containcd a brief declaration that there
would be no interference by the Japanese Navy with the peaceful
commerce of third countries with Chine.**
(b)
The Cabinet.
794
Accordine to the press, the Premier chose Mr. Masao Taki
for thc post of President of tie Planning Boara, which is to
be amalgamated with the Cabine 's Bureau of Resources.
In conncction with the ostilitics in China the Government
decided upon thc following "Spiritual Mobilization" program:
1. Menifestation of the Japanese snirit and the renova-
tion of social tronds.
(a) Cultivation of the spirit of perseverance.
(b)
* Embassy's telegram No. 344, Septcmber 3, 1937.
**Embassy's telceram No. 347, September 5, 1937.

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.98)
(b) Training of mind end body so as to stand
sufforings and privations.
(c) Inculcation of the spirit of suppressing self-
sceking consideretions for the sake of the common
€ood.
(d) Promotion of faithfulness in the discheree of one's
dutics.
2. Strenethening end meintenance of popular support for
those at the front.
(a) Manifestation of gratitude to the officers end
men et the front, and the dissemination of effectual
support for the Arny nd the Nevy.
(b) Cultivetion of thc spirit of mutuel aid cmong
neighbors.
(o) Offer of labour for the public good.
3. Coopcration of the people to fecilitate the execution
of the cmergency cconomic policy.
(a) Cultivetion of industrious habits.
(b) Cooperation btwcen Capitcl and Labour.
(c) Abstention from monopolizing intercsts end from
profiteering.
(d) Encouragcment of subscription to nationel bonds.
(c) Elimination of westc and the encouregement of
savings.
(f) Improvement of the state of intcrnetional eccounts.
(ε) Fruoal usc of moncy.
4. Protcction of resources.
(c)

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.98)
(c) The Army.
For thc rcascn thet the cvidence wes considered insufficient
tor conviction, on September 25 the Tokyo Court Marticl acquitted
Gonercl Jinzaburo Mezeki of the charee of having cided the rcbels
in the uprising of Februery 26, 1936. It scuncd probablc thet
despite the apparently conclusive cviduncc egcinst General Mazeki,
the Court Marticl had found it udvisable to ccquit him in vicw
of his distineuished c rcer cnd of thc unfavorable repercussions
that micht hevc resultcd from convictin him at this timc of nc-
ti nal umerguncy.*
A War Office crainance publishcd in the Official Gazctte on
September 28 cnnounced that, vith the cxception of short-term
privates, all officcrs and men beloncing to army units that have
been mobilizcd or sent to Chint must continue in survice for the
duration of the China hostilitics, even though thcir turms of
scrvice mcy heve expired.
The cnnuel grend military mancuvers, which were to have
becn held under the command of tnc Empurer in Mic Prefefture
in November, vere cancclled owine to the Sino-Japanese hostilities,
according to an announcement issued by the Wer Office on Septem-
ber 20.
(d) The Emperor.
It will be recalled that Dr. Tatsukichi Minobe, former
university professor and author of the theory that the Emperor
of Japan is merely an institution, has been persecuted for some
time. In February 1936 Dr. Minobe was shot and wounded by Juse
Oda, a member of the Daito Kogyo Jyuku, a reactionary organization.
On September 2s the Tokyo District Criminal Court sentenced Oda
to six years of penal servitude for his attempt to assassinate
Dr. Minobe.
IV
Embassy's despatches No. 2551 of August 18 and No. 2608 of
September 29, 1937.

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.98)
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
The September session of the Diet was convoked for the same
Ieasons as the emergency session of the Diet which was convened on
Tuly 28 and ended on August 8, namely, to provide funds to meet the
:xpenses of military operations in Chine and to enact legislation
which would enable the Government more effectively to conduct mili-
tary operations against China.* The Diet performed its duty in
these lines in a war atmosphere to tne full satisfaction of the
Covernment.** The followine war measures were enected: a law
providine for a public loan for military expenditures; e law
cstablishing e military expenditure eccount; a law revising foreign
exchanre control; e law providing for the mobilization of the muni-
tions industry; a law providing for the transfer of horses for
military use; laws esteblishing temportery grain control and tem-
norory fertilizer control; laws providinf for temporary import
"nd export control and temporery shippine control;
. a lew stipu-
luting that soldiers at the front shall be relieved of taxes and a
law providing for a temporary adjustment of funds.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
As already stated, an energency military budget of over two
billion yen was approved by the Diet on September 9. According
to reliable informetion reccived by the Embassy, this emergency
budeet wus divided into the following items when presented to
the Dict: Army - ¥ 1,422, 712,777; Navy - ¥ 349,958,381; and
Reserve - ¥ 250,000,000.
The totel budget upproved by the end
of Septenber amountcd to ¥ 5,474,566,294, a tremendous increase
over the budcet for tie fiscal year 1931-32 of ¥ 1,476,000,000,
over the budret for 1936-37 of ¥ 2,307,000,000 and also over the
basic budget for 1937-38 approved at the 70th session of the Diet
in March of ¥ 2,813,937,971.***
According
See Section Iv, "Course of Legislation", of the monthly report
for August.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2594, September 17, 1937.
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2600, September 24, 1937.

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.99)
According to a statement issued by the Bank of Japan, the
Government's purchases of eold for l937, based on the Bank of
Japan's buying record for July end August, will amount to about
two hundred million yen.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONLITIONS.
(a) Foreign Trade.*
Japan's exports for September were ¥ 292,300,000 and im-
ports into this country were ¥ 263,081,000, as compared with ex-
ports for August of ¥ 250,341,000 and imports of ¥ 302,954,000.
This represented a favorable belance of trede of ¥ 29,219,000 in
contrast to an unfavorable trade balance for Au ust of ¥ 52,613,000.
The increase of exports was due to seasonal factors, while the
decline in i ports was accounted for by the various covernmental
measures restrictinc imports.
Mr. Shinji Yoshino, the Minister for Commerce and Industry,
stated in & newspaper interviev on September 25 that economic op-
eraticns in North China must be started as soon as peace and order
were restored and that it would be necessary to purchase cotton
and wool from North China in oraer to increase the purchasing
power of the peo le in that territory.
On September 20 t.e Finance Ministry informed representatives
of ten lcadin distributors of forein movine picture films that,
with the exception of news reels, no more foreien moving picture
films would be allowed to enter Japan during the rest of the
present calendar year, in view of the fact that foreien exchange
must be rcserved for essentiels, and that the products of
"Hollywood and other foreirn movie centers" were not regarded as
nccessary for the successful tcrmination of the campain in China.
(b)
Data furnished by the Commercial Attaché's Officc.

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.98)
(t) Financial Tronds.
The money market was casy; both bank deposits and loans in-
reased, reflccting industrial activity; the stock exchange market
w-s dull, with minor fluctuations in prices; and the average yen
cichange rete was $0.28905 as com cred with 0.290817 for the
month of August.
(c) Industries.
According to the NICHT NICHI of September 24, two of Japen's
largest industries, spinning and foodstuff menufacturing, have
been classified under the Emergcncy Capital Readjustment Law, which
has been onerative since September 9, as non-urgent industries
which do not require expansion or improvement for the time being.
The NICHI NICHI also stated that almost all Japanese industries,
exceptine the munitions industries, would be forbidden to expand
equipment, incrcase capitalization, or issue debentures without
Government permission.
The CIIUGAI of September 28 reported that in accordance with
the terms of the Artificial Fetroleum Industry Law, pessed by the
Dict in Aurust, it had been decidcd to establish the Inmperial Fucl
Devclopment Company with c ccpitalizction of y 100,000,000, half
of which is to be peid in by the Government and the other helf to
bc subscribed by thc public.
(a) Aviction.
Thc ASAHI of Septem er 4 reported that the Communications
Ministry was preparing, for presentation to the Diet in December,
a ¥ 250,000,000 five-year program designed to clevate tho level of
civilien aviation in Japan to that of leading Western Powers, and
thet the prorram would includc the trainine of five thousand pilots
in five years.

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.96)
JTI.
ACTIVITIES OF A ERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothine to report.
TII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothins to report.
IX.
LABOR AND EMIGRATICN.
IHothing to report.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.99)
DURING SEPTEMBER, 1937.
No. Date
Subject
2565 Sept. 1
China Blockade
566 Sept. 2
Temporary Clerk Erma C. Faust.
2567 Sept. 3
Replacing of Janitor.
2568 Sept. 3
Recommendations Made and Steps Taken by The
American Embassy and Steps Taken by the
British and French Embassies in Tokyo with
Respect to the Sino-Japanese Conflict.
2569 Sept. 3
Farewell Dinner in Honor of Mr. Houston,
New York World's Fair Commissioner.
2570 Sept. 3
Sino-Japanese Relations
2571 Sept. 3
Japanese Reaction to the Sino-Soviet Non-
ggression Pact.
2572 Sept. 3
Section 3 (1) Visa keport.
2573 Sept. 4
Radio Broadcast by Vice Minister Horinouchi.
2574 Sept. 4
American Assistance to the Withdrawal from
Nanking of Mr. Hidaka, Counsellor of the
Japanese Embassy in Nanking.
2575 Sept. 7
Address Made by the Ambassador.
2576 Sept. 7
Letters Rogatory, VEIICE MARU Case.
2577 Sept. 9
Appointment of Japanese Ship Inspectors Under
Panama Canal Regulations.
2578 Sept. 9
Home Leave of Miss Russell.
2579 Sept. 17
Diplomatic Visa heport.
2580 Sept. 11
Message from the Ambassador.
2581 Sept. 11
Letter of Thanks from Captain and Crew of Japanes
Fisheries Training Ship.
2582 Sept. 11
Temnorary Clerk Marion I. Glaeser.
2583
Sept. 11
Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
2584
Sent. 14
Monthly Political Report for hugust.
2585 Sept. 14
Delay in heceipt of Mails from Mukden.
2586 Sept. 16
Recommendations Made and Steps Taken by the
American Embassy and Steps Taken by the British
and French Embassies in Tokyo with Respect to
the Sino-Japanese Conflict.
2587

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.99)
2
No.
Date
Sub ject
2587
Sept. 16
Japanese Narcotics Traffic Report, 1936.
2588
Sept. 16
Japanese Arms Control Law.
2589
Sept. 17 Sino-Japanese Relations.
2590
Sept. 17 Wounding of the British Ambessador to Chine.
2591
Sept. 17 China Blockade.
2592
Sept. 17 Visit of Japanese Mission to thc United States
2593
Sept. 17 Sino-Japanese Relations.
2594
Sept. 17 Seventy-Second Japanese Diet.
2595
Sept. 17
Japanese Foreign Exchange Control.
2596
Sept. 17
Law for Temporary Control of Imports and Exports.
2597
Sept. 17
Reply of Japanese Government to Portuguese
Government's Proposal for Voting at International
Telecommunications Conferences.
2598 Sept. 17
Pratas Reef and Non-Alienation by Japan of
Chinese Territory.
2599 Sept. 17
hequisition for Furniture and Office Equipment.
2600
Sept. 24
Japanese Budget.
2601
Sept. 24
Seventh Quarter Examination of Mr. Emmerson.
2602
Sept. 24
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2603
Sent. 27
Local Leave of Mr. Emmerson.
2604
Sept. 30
Recommendations Made and Steps Taken by the
American Embassy and Steps Taken by the British
and French Embassies in Tokyo with Respect to
the Sino-Japanese Conflict.
2605 Sept. 30
Sino-Japanese Relations.
2606
Sept. 30
Chinese Customs and Salt Administrations.
2607
Sept. 29 Kobe's Despatch Concerning Sino-Japanese Conflict.
2608
Sept. 29 Court Martial and Acquittal of General Mazaki.
2609
Sept. 30 Assignment of Language Officers to Posts.
2610
Sept. 30
Appointment of Japanese Ship Inspectors under
Panama Canal Regulations.
261l Sept. 30 Wounding of the British Ambassador to China.

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRA'S
SENT
TO
THE DEPARTENT
DURING SEPTEMBER, 1937.
NO.
Date
Subject
334
Sept. 1, 7 p. n.
Exclusion of Tsingtao from Militery
Operations.
335
Sept. 1, 8 n. n.
Bombing Operations in Nanking.
336
Sept. 2, 3 p. m.
Horinouchi's Broadcast to the United
States.
337
Sept. 2, 4 n. m.
Reservation of Rights in China.
338
Sent. 3, 4 p. m.
Requisition for Funds.
339
Sept. 4, 10 a. m.
Employment of Miss Glaeser.
340
Scpt. 4, noon
Foreien Minister's Address Before
the Diet.
341
Sept. 4, 1 p. m.
Blockadc of China Coast.
342
Sept. 4, 2 p. m.
"Chahar Autonomous Government".
343
Scpt. 5, noon
Prime Minister's Address before the
Diet.
344
Sept. 5, 1 p. m.
Finance Minister's Addrcss Beforc The
Diet.
345
Sept. 5, 3 p. m.
lockade of China Coast.
346
Sept. 5, 4 p. ..
Horinouclii's Broadcast to the United
States.
347
Sept. 5, 5 n. m.
Addresses of the War and Navy Ministers.
348
Sept. 6, 10 a. 11.
Visit of U.S.S. GOLD STAR to Japan.
349
Sept. 6, noon
Telegraph Allotment.
350
Sept. 6, 1 p. n.
Withdrawal of Forces from Shanghai.
351
Sept. 6, 7 . m.
Withdrawal of Forces From Shanghai.
352
Sent. 7, noon
Withdrawal of Forces from Shanghai.
353
Sent. 7, 3 p. 11.
Bombin of Canton-Hankow Railway.
354
Sept. 7, 4 . ...
Possible Application of Certain
Provisions of the Neutrality Act.
355
Sept. 7, 4 2. m.
Proposed Visit of Naval Attaché to
Shanghai.
356
Sept. 7, 5 p. m.
Wounding of British Ambassador to China.
357
Sept. 8, 11 a. m.
Colonel Crane, Military Attaché.
358

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.99)
No. Date
Subject
358
Sept. 9, 2 p. m.
For Commerce from Commercial Attaché.
359
Sept. 10, 10 a. n.
Evacuation of Chinese from Taiwan.
360
Sept. 10, 2 n. n.
American-Japenese Relations.
361
Sept. 11, noon
Access to American Property in Shanghai.
362
Sept. 11, 2 p. m.
Withdrawal of Forces from Shanghai.
363
Sept. 12, noon Marking of Neutral Vessels in Chinese Waters
364
Sept. 13, 1 p. m.
Whereabouts of Rhea Camellia Blue.
365
Sept. 13, 2 p. m.
Message from Philip Smith.
366
Sept. 13, 3 p. m.
Japanese Good Will Mission to the United
States.
367
Sept. 13, 4 p. m.
Evacuation of Americans from Haichow.
368
Sent. 14, noon
Marking of Merchant Vessels.
369
Sept. 15, 1 n. m.
Application of American Arms Embargo.
370
Sent. 15, 2 p. m.
For Commercé from Commercial Attaché.
371
Sent. 15, 4 p. m.
Reservation of American nights.
372
Sept. 15, 5 p. m.
Japanese Good Will Iission to the
United States.
373
Sept. 15, 6 p. n.
Blockade of China Coast.
374
Sent. 16, 10 a. m.
Evacuation of Chinese from Taiwan.
375
Sent. 16, 11 a. m.
Evacuation of Americans on Canton-
Hankow Railway.
376
Sept. 16, 4 p. n.
American Arms Embargo.
377
Sept. 16, 5 n. m.
Evacuation of Americans from Hankow.
378
Sept. 16, 6 p. m.
Evacuation of Americans from Mokanshan.
379
Sept. 16, 7 p. m.
Bombing Operations in Nanking and
Elsewhere in China.
380 Sept. 17, 1 p. m.
International Telecommunications Con-
ference.
381
Sept. 17, 5 p. m.
Bombing of American Hospital at Waichow.
382
Sept. 17, 6 p. m.
American Property in Northern Shanghai.
383
Sept. 18, 11 a. m.
Evacuation of Americens from Haichow.
384
Sept. 18, noon
Evacuation of Americans from Hankow.
385

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
io.
Date
Subject
385
Sept. 18, noon
Japanese Occupation of Chinese Islands.
336
Sept. 18, 1 p. m. Evacuntion of Americans from Hankow.
387
Sept. 19, noon
vacuation of Americans from Hankow.
388
Sept. 19, 1 p. m. Americans in Suiyuan Province.
389
Sept. 19, 3 ?. m. Blockade of China Coast.
390
Sept. 19, 5 p. m. Evacuation of Americans from Hankow.
391
Sept. 20, noon
Visit to Japan of U.S.S. CANOPUS.
392
Sept. 20, 5 p. m. Bombing of Waichow.
393
Sept. 20, 6 7. m.
Transfer of Registry of Chinese Vessels.
394
Sept. 20, 7 p. m. Evacuation of Americans from Hankow.
395
Sept. 20, 8 p. m. Bombing of Nanking.
396
Sept. 20, 9 p. m.
Visit of Japanese Police Official to
the United States.
397
Sept. 20, 10 p. m. Bombing of American Hospital at Waichow.
398
Sept. 21, 5 p. m. Access to Foreign Property in Shanghai.
399
Sept. 22, 10 a. m. Trans-Pacific Flights of American Planes.
400
Sept. 22, noon
Pronosed Bombing of Nanking.
401
Cancelled.
402
Sept. 22, 2 . m. Wounding of the British Ambassador to
China.
403
Sept. 22, 6 7. m.
Bombing of Nanking.
404
Sept. 22, 7 p. m.
Bombing of Nanking.
405
Sept. 22, 8 p. m.
Bombing of Nanking.
406
Sept. 24, 4 n. m.
Chinese Customs and Salt Administrations.
407
Sept. 24, 5 p. m.
American-Japanese Parcel Post Convention.
408
Sept. 24, 6 p. m.
Evacuation of Americans from Hankow.
409
Sept. 25, 11 a. m. Bombing of Nanking.
410
Sept. 25, noon
China Coast Lighthouses.
411
Sept. 25, noon
Evacuation of Americans from Hankow.
412
Sept. 25, 1 p. m.
Bombing of French Mission at Sienhsien.
413
Sept. 25, 2 p. m. Rumored Japanese Occupation of Hainan.
414

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.99)
ate
Subject
Sept. 25, 3 p. m.
Visit to Japan of U.S.S. CANOPUS.
415
Sept. 26, 9 a. m.
Evacuation of Americans from Hankow.
416
Sept. 26, 9 a. m.
Return from China of Mr. McGurk.
417
Sept. 26, 4 p. m.
Access to American Property in Shanghai.
418
Sept. 27, 10 a. m.
Telegrams to Shanghai.
419
Sept. 27, 3 7. m.
Bombing of Franch Mission at Sienhsien.
420
Sept. 27, 4 p. m.
Bombing of Nanking.
421
Sept. 27, 5 p. m.
Bombing of Nanking.
422
Sent. 27, 6 p. m.
Bonbing of French Mission at Sienhsien.
423
Sept. 27, 7 p. m.
Boycott of Japanese Goods in Foreign
Countries.
424
Sept. 27, 8 p. n.
Courier Service between Japan and China.
425
Sept. 27, 9 p. m.
Bombing of lianking.
426
Sept. 28, 10 a. n.
Blockade of Chine Coast.
427
Sept. 28, 11 a. m.
China Coast Li,ghthouses.
428
Sept. 28, 4 p. m.
Americans in Su!yuan Province.
429
Sept. 28, 5 n. m.
Blockade of Chine Coast.
430
Sept. 29, 1 p. m.
Reservetion of American Rights.
431
Sept. 29, 8 p. m.
Bombing of Nanking.
432
Sept. 29, 10 p. m.
Conversation between the Military Attaché
end Japenese Army Officers.
433
Sept. 30, 10 a. m.
Iliness of Miss Gardiner.
434
Sept. 30, noon
Bombing of Nenking.
435
Sept. 30, 1 p. m.
Japanese Bombing Operations in China.
436
Sept. 30, 2 p. m. Bombing of Canton.
437
Sept. 30, 3 p. m.
For Commerce from Commercial Attaché.

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE CF THE ADVISER 
ERNAAL EUNI S
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DEC 8-1937
M.OOPP
No. 2654
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, November 9, 1909.
SJBJECT:
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
LEGALADVISER
THE MONTH OF OCTOBER, 1937.
-DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TE
38 233
AND CUDS
DIANCISIN OF
MID
894.00 P.R./1
fNtumand ON
3
Dwikion of
FP
FAH ENSTAAN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
DEPARTMENT
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Washington.
Deparment of State
zyk
Fir:
OF STATE
()
th reference to the Department's instruction No. 93 of
6
July
()
S
hassy
monthly report on conditions in Japan for the month
of Oatober, 1937.
Respectfully yours,
F/MR
JAN1 2 1930
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
1/ Report No. 133.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Embassy, Moscow
Embassy, Nanking
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Osaka
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Dairen
In quintuplicate to the Department.
AO0
CDA:V

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 133.
REPORT ON CONDI TIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF CCTOBIR, 1937.

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.94)
INDEXAND SULMARY
RULATIONS ITI THE U ITED ST TES:
(a)
Represontations made by tle mbassy in
Connection ith tho ino-Jepcnese
Conilict....
.1, 2,8,4,5,6.
(b))
Reaction in Japan to the meric:n Fer
wastern P.licy.
.6,7.
()
Se.din, of Good- /ill nvoys to the
United states....
.8
(a)
Sendin of the mbassy's: ilit ry ttaché
to Jac: ese Ironts in Uninc us
un cuserver.
.8
II. L.TC  IT TLR COU TS:
...8,9,10,11.
(b) Greet ritain.
.11,1,13.
(c)
Soviet Russic....
..14,15.
(i)
Italy d Gemmury.....
.15,1
(c)
"manchukuo".
.1,17.
(r)
.17.
.13
(h)
siar..
.13
(i)
.18
(j)
oland....
.13
(k)
The Lea, ve of vations
thc orth-
comin i e rover Tre ty Jo: Fe. nce...
(1)
The Unior o south frica.....
.19
.19
(n) Jost ic....
.20
.  R L FL  .
(a) Jubinet.
.20
(b) oliticrl trties.
.21

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.88)
INDEX AND SUYEARY (Cont'd)
IT.
COURSE CF I. EGISLATION
Nothing to rovort.
.  T F ....
.22.
.   .  .  1 0 .
..22
(b)
Fiianci:l Trends.....
..23
(c)
Shi pir........
..24

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.95)
(a) Representations made by the Embassy in Connection
with the Sino-Japanese Conflict.
793.
On September 29 the Foreign Office addressed to the Embassy
 menorandum requesting that, "with a view to cooperating" with
11
ine Jcpanese forces in their desire not to ccuse damage to the
operty of nationals of third countries, a list be supplied of
the hospitels, schools, and other eleemosynary esteblishments
belonging to the United Stetes and to netionals of the United
Strtes in China.* Pursuant to the Department's instructions, the
Counsclor of the Embassy called at the Foreign Office on October 7
and read to the Chief of the Bureau of mericen ffairs a telegram
from the Dupartnont of State, which stated in substence that the
American Government did not perceive thet there wes need for the
cupplying of a list such as that desired by the Japanese Govern-
ment.**
The Embessy cddressed to the Minister for Foreign ff:irs
 somi-formal note on October 1, brincing to the Minister's
ttention the substence or  telegrem received from the American
imb ssador in N nking, which st tud thet non-militory establish-
rents in i nking had apparently been the t rgets of Japenese
: o.bers in recent cir rids.***
In ruply to the Embossy's oral ropresentations of September
26, the Foreign Office st ted orally on October 1 that the
J: panese Navy had no intention of interfering with Chinese
coast-1 lirhts nd that it wes exercising utmost caution to
avoid such interference.
****
Acting under the Department's instructions, the Ambassador
c.lled on the Vice inister for Foreign ffairs on October 4
and left with him an aide-mémoire protesting ag: inst the continued
use by the Japanese armed forces of the Internotion-1 Settlement
jn
Embassy's telegram No.435, September 30, 1937.
Department's telegren No.250 of October 5, 1937.
:**
Tulegram to the Deportment from the Embassy at Nanking
No.737, September 29; ond Embassy's telegrom No.438,
October 1, 1937.
**☆*
Embassy's telegrrm No.440, Octobe. 1, 1937.

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.96)
 hunghai as a base for military operations against tho Chinose.
 Vico Minister's only comment was that tho Chinose forcos were
ingoring Japaneso livos and proporty in tho International
Go.tlomont by firing from Pootung and Chepci and that tho
, nese had landed a very small number of troops in the Sottle-
nt. their principal forcos having boen disembarked elsewhere.*
C1 Jctober 19 the Foreign Office delivered to the Embassy a momo-
ndum to the offect that the Japanese Government was obliged to
ue pert of the International Settloment in the present
military operations.** Acting under the Depertment's instructions
nd after tho Ambassador had consulted with the British Ambessa-
dor, on October 28 tho Embassy made further representations
ginst the use of the International Settlement et Shanghai as
case for Japanese military oncrations, informirg the Foreign
Orfice that the Amoricen Government continued to hold the views
: forth in the Ambassador's uide-mémoire of October 4.***
in roply to the Embassy's represontations of September 27
encerning the bombing of the Catholic Mission at Sienhsion by
mese planus on Soptember 2l, tho Foreign Ofrice addressed e
t. to the Amb ssador on October 4 stating that the Japaneso
ov rnment had received the information of the bombing with
p concern ", th t tho bombing had regrottably been done by
it ke, and that tho Japanese Govornmont would be gratified
f he Americ'n Government saw fit to "extond cooperation" to
o fforts which Japan was making to prevent such damage to
blishments of third notions, such cooperation to be oxtended
, 'urnishing maps showing the loc tion of Amorican religious
nd humanitarian establishments in Chinc.****.
工t
Dopartment's telegram 245, October 2, 1937; and
Embassy's telegram No.444, October 4, 1937.
Embassy's telegrem No.48l, October 20, 1927.
Department's telegrem No.270, Octoter 27, 1937; and
Enbassy's telegram No.501, October 28, 1937
Embassy's telegram No.450, October 5, 1937.

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.98)
reply to the Ambassador's
representations of September 22 concerning the bombing of Nanking
by Japanese planes, the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed a
note to the Ambassador on September 29, which state in substance
that the bombing of the military facilities and equipment located
in and around the city of Nanking was a necessary and unavoidable
measure for the attainment of the military objectives of the
Japanosc forces, and it was earnestly hopcd thet tho American
Government "would cooporate" with tho Japanese Govornment by
having American officials, citizens and vessels tako rofuge
away from Nanking in case of advance werning hy the Japanese
authoritics.* On October 7 thc Counsclor of the Embassy called
on Mr. Yoshizewa at the Forcign Officc and read to him a telegrem
from the Department to the effect that there had been wide-spread
comment in tho Americen press that the reply of the Japanese
Government was "unsatisfactory"; that there had boen adverse
commont both in official and unofficial circles in the United
States concerning the Japunese Foruign Office's use of the
expression "cooperate"; that what the Ar crican Government sought
and oxpected was not "cooperation" between the two countries in
relation to any phase of military oporations, but that Amorican
lives and property should not be ondangered by any military
operations; and that the American Goverrment appreciated the
assurance nd the apparently sincore of ort of the Japanese
Foreign Office to help toward avoiding endangoring American lives
and property, but th t in the opinion of the American Government
it would bo advisable to void tho use of the term "cooperate"
in any context relcting to or beoring upon the military opcrations.*
on
*
Department's telogr m No.221, September 21, 1937; and
Embassy's telegrrms No.403, Septcmber 21, and 431,
September 29, 1937.
**
Department's telegram No.251, October 5, 1937.

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.97)
Un october 18 the Embassy delivered to the Japanese Govern-
ment a memorandum protesting gcinst the attack on September 4
by Japaneso cirplanes on the Ide Kahn Women and Children's
Hospital at Nanchang on tho grounds thet it was en unwarrantable
attack upon a humanitcrian establishient and upon non-combatents
and that it exposed to grave danger the lives of Americans and
non-combatants.*
Pursuant to tho Department's instructions end after consulta-
tion with the British Anbassador, on October 14 tho Embassy made
reprosontations to the Japanese Government on tho subject of the
integrity of the Chinoso Customs revenuss at Tiontsin.** The
British Enbassy informed the Amorican Embassy on October 23 that
it hed received a telegran fron Tientsin which reported that there
hod taken placo a local settlement of the Customs issue in
cccordance with which funds collected by the Maritimo Customs
would be doposited in tho Yokohem: Specie Bank, nd jurisdiction
and regulations of the Maritine Customs would be respected.***
Pursuant to the Dopartment's instructions, the Ambassador
called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs on October 15 and
stoted orolly that the American Governnent was proceeding on the
assumption that the Japanese Governient would attend the cnference
of tho parties to the Nine Power Treaty. Mr. Hirotn replied that
the Japanese Governnent had not yet rocoived n invitation to
attend such a conforonce and that therefore no decision had yet
been roached, but that according to the present tondency within
the Governmont such an invitation would be declined. In reply
to
*
Embassy's tologran No.457, Octobor 8, 1937; and Department's
tologrom No.256, October 7, 1937.
**
Departmont's telegrem No.259, Octobor 12, 1937, and Embassy's
tolegrem No.473, October 14, 1937.
***
Embassy's despatch 2632, October 18, 1937, and Enbassy's
tolegraem No.490, October 23, 1937.

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.97)
to subsoquent argunonts cdvanced by the Ambnssador in favor of
Jepen's perticipation, Mr. Hirote assertcd that such a conference
would be useless, inasnuch as the Longue of Netions hed elroady
formally taken the part of China against Japan; that a discussion
of terms of pocce would be supcrrluous, since he (Hirote) had
been discussing these terms with Generl Chinng Kai-shok during
the past four yoars; and that "in genoral" these terms were
enbcdicd in his announced Three Points".* On October 27 the
Japanese Governnont's refusal of tho invitation of the Belgian
Governnent to the Nine Pewer Troaty Conference was approved by
the Cebinet and by the Enperor, cnd on the same day the Ministor
for Foreign Affairs handed a copy of the reply to the Anbassador.**
A tologrom to the Depertront fron tho Consulato Genoral at
Shanghri d ted Octcber 24, which was repertod to tho Enbassy,
roperted th t a p rty of about ton persons,ircluding threc
Amcricen men end two Aierican women, while hersoback riding on
on Octeber 24 in the British guerded soctor of the International
Settlenent, had been nachine-gunned by n irplane st ted
definitely te be a Jup incse plane; that one British seldier
belonging to the British outpost neer the conflict had been
killed; and that none of the party of riders had been injured.
On October 25 tho Embussy cormunic ted these facts to the Japanese
Foreign Office and protested against such attccks. On the follow-
ing day the Embossy reccived dnoto fron the Minister for Foreign
Affairs, which oxpressed regret thet a Japanese cirplane had
fired "in error" upon A erican natienals in Snanghai and stated
that
*
Departnent's tologran No.261, October 14, 1937; and
Embassy's telegrans No.475, October 15, nd 479, October
18,1937.
**
Enbaasy's tolegran No.498 and 499, Uctober 27, 1937.

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.97)
that necossary neasures wore being devised to prevont the
occurrence of incidents of this cliracter, thet fter investige-
tion the Jupanese Government would appronri tely eal: ith the
responsible for the incident, and that the Japanese Governnent
was prepared tc nake necessury compensation i respect of any
injury which might have been incurred by A urican nationals.*
On October 27 Mr. Dooman read to Mr. Yoshizawa of the Japan-
ese Foreign Office a report received from Shanghai, and he urged
that the commanders of the Japanese naval and militery forces at
Shanghai be directed to see to it that lives of foreigners and
other non-combatants in the foreign protected areas were not
endangered by Japanese gun fire and by the flying of Japanese
airplanes carrying bombs over such areas. lir. Yoshizawe express-
ed regret that the actions of the Japanese forces should have
made further representations necessary, anl caid thet he would at
once take up the matter with the appropriate suthoritics.**
In response to the suggestion of the Consul General at
Shanghai, on October 3o the Embassy protestec to the Japanese
Foreign Office against the bombing by Japenese airplanes on
October 29 of tho Mothodist Episcopal Mission at Sungkiang,
eighteen miles southwest of Shanghei.***
(b) Reaction in Japan to the Arierican Far Eastern
Policy.
At the beginning of the month there was in Japan general
recognition that hmerican opinion opposed Japanese actions in
China
*
Telegram to tho Department from the Consulate Generel at
Shanghai No.388, October 24, 1937, and Enbassy's tolograms
No.492, October 25, and No.493, Octobor 26, 1937.
**
Telegram to the Departrent from tho Consulate Generel at
Shanghai No.887, October 24, 1977; and Embassy's tolegram
No.495, October 27, 1937.
*** Telegram to the Dopartment from the Consulate Generel at
Shanghai No.906, Octobor 29, 1937; and Enbassy's telogram
No.501, 0ctober 30, 1937.

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.97)
China and commom knowledge that the American Government was mekin;
firm represontations with regard to American damages suffered
through Japenoso activities in the hostilitics in Chinc. Follow-
ing the Prosident's Chicago speech of October 5 and the Depart-
mont's declaration of October 6, foeling cgeinst tho United
Statos mounted sharply. This focling resulted from resentment
at being condemned as the aggressor and from uncertainty as to
Amcrica's intentions of att mpting to co crce Japan.* Editorials,
lthough not violent in tone, clonrly revealed that those announce-
ments of tho American ttitude hud been a shock to Japuneso
opinion.**
Apropos of the declaration of the Le guc of Nations tht
Japan had violated the Nine Power Tre ty and the Kellogg-Briand
Pect and of the Depertment's statemont to the some effect, the
Foroign Office issucd : longthy stetement on October 9 tho sub-
stance of which wus that tho Chinose were entirely responsiblo
for the presont hostilities and thet the prosent cction of Japam
in Chine did not contr: vone any of the oxisting trosties.***
By the end of the month the outburst ngainst the United
St tos had bocomo less articulat end rdverse criticism of the
United States hid become overshadowed by tle bitter and widely
veiced resentmont g inst rect Britrin. Howover, the public
conviction had become settled thet the United St tes hed pre-
judged the issues between Jopan and China, thereby bondoning any
right to influenco tho terms of settlement.
(c)
Emb.ssy's dosp tch No.2626 of October 22, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No.459, October 9, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegram No.463, Uctober 9, 1937
****
Embassy's despatch No.2626, October 22, 1937.

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.98)
(c) Sending of Good-will Envoys to the United States.
Despite the Embassy's informal efforts to disccurage the
sending to the United States of so-called good-wiil envoys, the
Japanese authorities decided to send the following four prcmine.t
Japanese to undertake an unofficial "good-will mission" to the
United States: Mr. Takaishi, editor of the NICHI NICIT; Mr.
Ashida, member of the Diet and editor of THE JAPAN TITS;
Mr. Bunjiro Suzuki, prominent labor member of the Diet; end
Mr. Kojiro Matsukata, member of a woll-known commorcial family.*
The four envoys sailed for the United States during the month.
It was understood that the primary purpose of the mission would
be to explain and to defend Japanese actions in China.
(d) Sending of the Embussy's Military Attaché
to Japanese Fronts in Chine as en Observer.
In response to the Japanese War Office's invitation and
in accordance with the Dopartment's instructions, Lieutenant-
Colonel Crano, the Enbassy's Militury Attaché, left Japan with
several othor Military Attachós on a trip as military observer
at various Jepanese fronts in North Chinu, including those along
the Tientsin-Pukow and Peiping-Hankow ruilways.**
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUITRIES.
(n) China.
Hoavy fighting continued during October in the Shanghai
ares. Meeting with stubborn resistance, the Japanese were
unable to make any substantial headway gainst tho Chinesc until
the
*
Embassy's telogram No.448, October 5, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegrams No.404, September 22; No.442, October
2, and No.452 October 6, 1937, and Departmont's tclegrams
No.241, ctober 1 and No.248, Uctober 4, 1937.

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.97)
the latter part of the month. However, on Octoher 27 the Japaneic
forces succceded in outflanking and copturirg Taclane. v oh force
the withdrewal of thc Chinese forces from Chapei.*
The Itenst
jrive which resulted in this Japanese victory was perh ps insrirca
ty the desire of the Japanese for s substantial succus: prore tne
convening of the Nine Power Conferonce. Reports vurie s tc
whether the Chinese decision to withdraw had buen t ir r
str tegic roasons or had been compelled by superior roros of crins.
The Japanese military authorities announcod officially en (ctober
14 that since August 23 Japenese losses in tho Shanghui arec hed
been 3,O46 killed and 9,617 wounded, while foreign military
cuthorities believed that Jepanese cssualties had been approximate-
ly double the official figures.**
The advance of the Japanose forces on the Peiping-Haikow
Railway was rapid. Shihkiachwang fell on October lo, other
Chinese positions in southern Hopei were successively captured by
the Japanese, and at the close of the month the Japenese had pene-
trated the Hopei-Honan border.
Likewise, Japanese units were successful in their advence
southward on the Tientsin-Pukow Railway. Tenchow was occupied on
October 3 and at the close or the month the Jupanese were within
close proximity of Tsinanfu in Shantung Province. Meanwhile, the
attitude of General Han Fu-chu, Governor of Shantung Province,
remained unkown. However, there were indications that General
Han Fu-chu had reached an understanding with the Japanese in
regerd to Shantung and in regard to a movement in Tsinanfu amount-
ing to separation from Nanking in the political-military sphere.***
while
*
Telegram from the Consul General at Shanghai No.893, Uctober
27, 1937.
**
Telegram to the Department from the Consul General at Shanghai
No.852, October 14, 1937.
***
Telegram from the Embassy at Nanking dated October 23, 1937
quoting telegram from the Consul at Tsingteo dated Ocober
22, 3 p.m., 1937.

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
While the Japanese forces were reported by apparontly
reliable sources to have met with reversos in Shansi Province,
thoy continued their advancc in that Province and also in Suiyuau.
Taiyuan, the capital of Shansi Province, was not taken by the
Japanose before tho end of the month.
Repeated Japanese air raids took placc against the principal
cities in Contral and South China, including Nanking, Hankow, and
Canton, and also against other places, includirg undefended
towns. In addition, the Tientsin-Pukow, Nanking-Shanghai,
Soochow-Kashing, Hankow-Canton and Carton-Kowloon railways were
systematically bombed at various points. Thc Japanose claimed
to have inflicted heavy damages on these railways, although
information from other sourcos indicated that the damages sus-
teinod by the Chinese were insignificent.
There were insistent though unconfirmed rumors throughout
the month that negotiations were taking place for e settlement
of the conflict. The Chinese authorities continued to doclaro
that their armies would fight to . finish and would not pormit
any infringomont of tho torritorial integrity of China in any
sottloment that might be renchod. Nevertheless, at the close of
tho month it could only be conjectured what the Chinese position
would be in the fece of further developnents. Furthermore, there
apperred to be divergence of opinion among the Japanese military,
ore element insisting upon the dostruction of the Chinese armies
and th occupation of Nanking, the other clement advocating
cessation of the southward advance in North China at the Lunghai
Railway and also cessation of tho Japanese offensive against
tho Shanghai forces of the Chinose as soon as these forces
should be driven to a sufficient distance from the Shanghai area.
At

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
At the instigation of the Japanese militery the Federated
Autonomous Gov ernment of Mongolin was organized o October 28
at Kucisui, Suiyuan Prcvince, with Prince Yun as Chairman und
Princo Toh as Vice Chairman.*
(b) Great Britain.
Ropregentetions made to the Japaneso Governmer.
by the British Embassy in Tokyo concerning the
Sino-Japenese Conflict.
On October 13 the British Embassy made representations to
the Japanese Government on the subject of the integrity of the
Chinese Customs revenues at Tientsin and handed to the Foreign
Office a memorandum entitled, "Proposeu Arrengement Concerning
Customs Revenues at Tientsin and Chinwangtao". Ten days later,
according to information furnished to the Embassy by the British
Embassy, the latter reccived a telegram from Tientsin which
that
reported there had taken plece a local settlement of the Customs
issue in accordance with which funds would bo deposited in the
Yokohama Spocie Bank, and jurisdiction and revenues of the Mari-
time Customs would be respected.**
It will be recalled that on September 20 the Foreign Officc
addressed to the British Embassy a note verbalo stating that the
Japanese forces were anxious to avoid as fer as possible damage
to the property of the nationals of third countries and request-
ing details of cultural establishments owned by Great Britain or
by British subjects in China. In reply, the British Embassy
addressed to tho Foreign Office on October 13 a note verbale in
which it was stated thet the British Gov ornment regretted that
it was unable to comply with the Japanese request; that the
existence
*
Tolegram to the Department from the Embassy at Poking
No.311, October 30, 1937.
Embassy's despatch No.2632, October 18, 1937, and Embassy's
tologram No.490, October 23, 1937.

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.97)
axistonce and locality of such cuitural institutions worc douit-
less known to the local Japanose authorities in all parts o
Chine; and thet in the view of the British Government tne reupen-
sibility for insuring that such insitutions should not be nou. the
subject of any attack must rost vith the Japanese authoritis
concerned.*
On October 15 the British Amocssador left with the Mi:i ster
for Foreign Affairs a memorandum the substance of which was that
Government
the British earnestly hoped that the Japanese Government woul
cooperate in seeking a method of bringing an end to the Sino-
Japanese conflict by agrcement and would accept an invitation to
the Nine Power Trecty Conference. Five days later tho British
Ambassador made renewed roprosent tions on this subject. Mr.
Hirota replied that the sentiment against Jepanese participation
in the Conforence, especially among the leaders of the political
narties: was practically unanimous. The Japanose refusal of the
invit tior. of the Belgian Government to the Nine Power Treaty
Conferonce was approved by the Cabinet and by the Emperor on
Octobor 27 and on the same day  copy of the reply to the Bolgian
Government was handed to the British Ambassador.**
The British Embassy received a note from the Foreign Office
on October 26 which expressed regret over the fict thet e
Japanese airplnne had fired upon British nationals in the British
guarded sector of the International Settloment at Shanghai and
killed a British soldier. The Japenese note was similar to the
note sent to the Americ'n Embessy on the same date.**According
to a statement made to the Americen Ambassador by the British
Ambassador on October 27, the British Government accepted the
Japanese note of apology.
The
*
Embassy's telogrom No.471, October 14, 1937.
**
Embassy's tolegr ms No.476 October 16 and No.484, Octo: er
21; No.498, October 27 and No.499, Octobor 27, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegram No.496, Octobor 27, 1937 and Section
I(a) of the present report.

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.96)
The British Embassy nede rther representation, cn
Oetober 27 agcinst the use of th Internaticnel Settlurent t
Shanghai as a base for Japanes: militery operations.* 
Outober 28 the British Emb: ssy made representations conca.min
the safety of British subjects nd other non-combatants in te
foreign protected areas at Sh ghai which were similar to ure
represent:tions made by the American Er.bassy on the previor
dey.
(2)
Japanese Reaction to the British Att itude tcward
the Sino-Japanese Conflict.
Japanese comments on Great Brit in's ttitude and acticns
vis-a-vis the Sino-Japanese hostilities becume increasingly
adverse during the month under revi w nd at the end of the
menth tensicn was apperent in tie relations betwoon tho two
countries. On October 29 a "d iucation" visited the British
Et  to protest ngainst the pup ly of British arms to
Chin. on October 3o a group of momters of the Japanose House
of Represent tivus adopted  res lution donouncing Great
Drit in for attompting to form  common front goinst Japan
nd cdvoe: ting that diplomotic rel tions with Great Britain be
broken off.
The MIYAKO and the NICHI NICHI of October 3O reported that
Japanese indignation toward Greet Britain's attitude and actions
with regord to the Sh nghai hostilities had been brought to a
new pitch. The Jupanese press referred in heated terms to the
"unfricndly attitude" of the British forces at Shanghai, charg-
ing that British troops h:d surplied food to Chineso troops in
Chapei and facilit-tcd thoir osc pe into the International
Settlement
*
Embassy's tolegrrms No.500 and 501, October 28, 1937.

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.97)
Sottlemont, that British warships had been giving rango and
direction signcls to Chinese crtillory units, and that without
making an investig tion tho British has eccuscd the Japanese cf
firing the shell which killed or vounded four British scldiers.
Frictien in Anglo-Japanese rolatiens bec me even more pronounced
as a consequence of tho maclhine gunning by Japenese navel plenes
on Octob er 12 of motor cars belenging to the British Embassy in
Nanking, on the road from Nanking to Shanghai. Further apprchen
sicn over tho ultimate course f Anglo-Jepanese rolations wos
caused by indicetions that Japan might declare war on Chine and
subsoquently undertake . blockade of Hong Kong.
(3) Dispatch cf Viscount Ishii as Unofficial Good-will
Envcy to Great Britain.
Accomp nied by his son and & suitu, Visccunt Kikujiro Ishii
left Japan fer London on Octcber 30 in the ccpacity of unofficial
"c d-will" crvey to Grect Britcin. According to DomEI, Visccunt
Isrii m de tho following st-toment immodiately prior to his
deporture: "I am conscicus of the er vity of my responsibility
but it is not merely  r the purp so f explaining nd asking
underst: nding f the J'ponese stnd th't I undertoke the present
trip to England. I m going cls bec use I connet sit with
folded rms when I remind myselr f the present compliccted strte
f the Japanese end British interests in the Fer Erst. In this
sense, it may be said that I am g ing t England to urge the
English to ruconsider on this particular p int rather than to
seek their understanding. I'm not going to kowtow to the British".
(c) Sovict Russia.
Relations between the Soviet Union and the Japanese were, if
nythine, worse during October then during the previcus month.
There wero further rumers of Soviet military  sstst uceto the
Chinese

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.96)
Chinese Government. For example, Americens who had been in Kansu
Province roported in Nenking thet new pursuit planes and bombers
flown by Chinese piluts and believed to bo cf Russian origin had
been arriving in Lanchow, Kansu Province.* Furthermore, it was
the
reperted that with Japanese adv nco into Chahar and Suiyuan
Previnces Soviet reenforcements were being sent into Outer-Mongolie.
Judging from northwerd movements of Jepanese trocps toword the
Siberian frontier, it seemod that the Japanese War Office was
tokin6 preccutionery if net preporatory moasures ag inst tho
possibility of ultimate Soviet rmed interventin on the side of
Chine in the present conflict.
In this connecticn it is interosting to note a statement
ttributed by Domei f Octeber 1l to n unnrmed st-ff officer of
the Mrko N-vrl Stoti n. Acc rdine to this news ageney, the officer
r rked thet 1thou h the Japarese had victory within their grasp
in Chine, tho J ponese nation must not feel too assured of itself;
th  the Japanese nation must never forget that "e socond and a
third enemy are weiting their chenee"; and that censequently the
Jop nese "must te prepered fer  roal fight, studying the results
of the grand maneuvers, se to speak, in which we are now eng ged".
(a) It-ly nd Gormany.
The possibility .f n Italo-Germen-Japanoso cgrooment "agcinst
cemnunism" crme to the fore with the publication in Tokye of a
si ned rticle by Premiur Mussolini in IL POPOLO D'ITALIA, in
which he st-ted that he w's strongly in support of Jopan as the
defender eg-inst Belshevism in the Fer Eost. In dditin, on
October 9 the Italin Ambsssador in Tokyo called on the Vice
Minister for Foreign Affrirs nd st-ted, acccrding to the Japanese
press
Telegrom to the Dep rtment from the Consulate at Hankow
acted Octcber 13, 5 p.m., 1937.

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.95)
Fress, that Italy hocrtily supported Japan in the latter's
strugglc with Chin: and considorod its actions fully justified.
Tho Vice LMinister repcrtedly replied as follows: At a tine
when the League of Notions ond the United St tes cre condomning
Japan's righteous cction ir Chins, I lirve no words to expross
tho gratitude of Premier Kenoye, of Foreign Minister Hirota,
and, in fect of the whele Government nd of ll the people, for
this expression of good-vill by Pronier Llussolint, the Itelian
Gevernnent, and the Italian people toward Japan. Plerse convey
our heartfelt appreciation to Il Duce".
According to a Donei despatch from Rone d ted October 11,
following an understanding with keichsfuehrer Hitler for joint
support of Japar in the Sino-Japanose conflict, Premier Musso-
lini crdered all Itelian avistors in Chia te discontinue help-
+ny-uhe-Nanking G vernment. Tho rapprcchements between Japan
ra It-ly :nd b tween Jopan and Gerany appeared to have been
st engthened by the folloving two levelopnents, respoctively:
Ioports that It ly woula support J n n in the fortheoring Nine
P.wer Treaty Conference ne the decision f the Germion Govern-
mont not to ccopt the Belgian Governnent's invit tien to the
C.nferoncc.
On October 26 the C hinet apar ved the anp intment of
Mr. Shigenori T go, directer f the Europe'n ne Wost Asictic
Pureu of the F rcign Office, as ib s or to Berlin to
cucceed Viscount Kintomo Mushakoji.
(c) "Manchukuo".
It was stated by the ASI  nd by the NICHI NICHI of
a
October 29 that s rosult of nogeti tions bctween Mr.
Matsuoka, Presidont of the South M nohuri  Railwey Company, and
Mr, Likawa, President of tho Japan Ineustry Company, an
greement hed been re: ched whereby all hervy inaustrial
cónpanies

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.95)
-17-
cunp nies in "Manchukuo" wculd be t ken over by the Japan
Inlustry Company under a monopoly agreenent.
(f) Frence.
In ruply to his represent tions of Septenber 27 concerning
the bombing by Japanese planes of the Fronch Cathclic Mission
at Sienhsien, Hopei Province, tho French Ambassador received
on October 4 a communication from the Forsign Office which
exprussed regret over the incident cnd which was almost iden-
tic 1 with the reply received by the imerican Embassy to its
reprosentations on the sme subject.*
cccrdine to infoiction
furnished to the Arericrn A b: ss dor by tho French ribessador
on October 1l, in response to the recuest of the Jepanese Govern-
Ment, the French Anbassalor sent to the Ministry for Foreign
f irs a list of ell the French instituticns in China with a
viw to uvcidins os for as possible a recurrence of incidents
e es the borbine f Tsienhsien.
The Erbassy was infonue by th: Fronet Eib ssy thet the
French Ambossecer had nove n prroach t. the Foreign Office
o the subject of the integrity of the Chi .ese Custons revenues
t Tientsin.
On ctober 20 the Fronch Anb ss or nde represontotions
 the Minister for Foreign Affoirs urgine that the Japanese
G v rnient particip:to in the Nine Power Treaty Cenference.
Mr. Hirot- replied thet since no invitation hat been received the
Jopunese Governrent hod os yet roached io cecisien but tict the
Prussure of public upinion in Jupen weull prob bly require the
 ponese Gevern ent to refuse.**
(g)
Scc section I(a) cf the prosent report.
Enbassy's telegrm No.488, Oct ber 22, 1937.

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
(g) The Netherlands.
The only development of importance in Netherlands-Japanese
elations was the repercussion caused in Japan by the reported
ecTine gunning by Netherlands airplanes of Japanese fishing
ssels on September 20 and October 9 in the vicinity of Sumatra.
Jomei of October 18 stated that Jepanese public opinion had been
greatly shocked by these incidents. According to the JAPAN TIMES
of October 18, the spokesman of the Japanese Foreign Office told
press correspondents on that day that the matter had been called
to the attention of the Netherlands Government but that no protest
had been lodged.
(h) Siam.
Phra Sri Sena, newly appointed Siameso Minister to Japan,
rrived in this country on October 26.
(i) Turkey.
A revised trade agreenent between Japan and Turkey to sup-
1 lant the provious agreement, which had expired on January 2, 1937,
vas signed at Ankara on October 27. According to the Japanoso
r ss, the now trade agreement abolishes the former restrictions
n the total volume of trade between the two countrius, formerly
fixed at four million Turkish pounds.
(j) Poland.
On Octobor 1 the Polish Luration in Tokyo end the Japanese
C ation in Waraaw were clevated to Embassies. Mr. Romer, Polish
inister in Tokyo, had proviously told press ruprosentatives that
there was no special significanco in the dete of this step by the
two countries and that Japanose-Polish friendship was "directed
asainst nobody".
(k)

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.96)
(k)
The League of Nations end the Forthcoming Nine Power
Trecty Conference.
Adverse comments cn the Lergue of Nations continued to
find expression in the Japonese pross. Furthemoro, the
vernacular newsp pers attemptod to blame the Lengue of Nations
for the decision of Great Britain and the United States and
other signatorics of the Nine Powor Treaty to hold a conferonce
in connection with the present Sino-Japanose hostilitics. In
foct, in its note declining the Bolgian Govornment's invitation
to the Confcrence the Japeneso Government statod that one of
its rensons for not porticipcting in the Conforence was that
the Conference arose out of tho Loague's rosolution of October
6, which inter alia called on member statos to do nothing to"
wo ken Chinese resist nce to Japan.* The Japanese reply in
refuscl (f the Belgin invitation was handed to the Belgian
Ambassedor on October 27.**
(1) The Unien ef South nfrice.
A Jupenese Legation wes opuned during the month at Pretoria,
The Union of South Afric..
(m) Spain.
The Fronce Gevernient of Salamance joined Germeny and Italy
in expressing friendship for Japan when Mr. Castillo, former
occupant
Spanish consul at Kote and present/of tho premises of the Spanish
Legation in Tokyo, on adherent of General Franco, on Uctcber 3
oxpressed his Government's respect and sympathy for Japan new
engaged in a hely war of just and fair defenso undor tho presont
omergency situaticn".***
(n)
★
Embrssy's telegram No.499, October 27, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No.498, October 27, 1937.
★**
E.bcssy's despctch No.2631, October 15, 1937.

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.97)
(n) Costa Rica.
A Costa Rican"gocd-will" ocononic mission consisting of
Mr. Paul Gurdian, former Foreign, Finence, and Comnorce
Minister of Costa Rice, and Mr. kamon Madrigel arrived in
Jar on Septomber 15. After heving beon widely entertained
unu shown through varicus industrial estoblishmcnts, tho
mission left Japan cn Octobor 14. Apprently, the object of
the mission's visit to this country was tc have an exchange
of views with Japanese offici ls nd industri-l londers rather
than to recch a definite trrde understanding.
Mr. Genji Kato, President of the Federation of Japan
Generel Goods Experters' Associations for Central and South
Alericn, contributed nn article to the NICHI NICHI in which
he stated that although trade between Japan and Costo Rice hnd
been prugressing f verebly since 1933, there had been a belance
of trade predoninately in fevor of Jepan; that a solution to
remedy this situati n hed been found, nancly, the extension of
Jap n's ussistanco tovard the development of tho cultivation of
row cotton in Costa Hica and the imp rtation of raw cotton fron
tht country. Acccrding to st tistics published in the NIChI
NICHI, Japan's principal inperts frcn Cost: Ric at present
consist of coffee, bananas, &nd lunber. It w uld not appear
likely that Japan c uli eppreciably increrse its imperts cf
these comnodities, inasnuch s coffee and bananes are used only
in limited quantities in this country nd as the cost of shipping
lunber from Costo Ricn to Japn would seem to be almost pr hibi-
tive.
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL COIDITIONS.
(a) Cabinet.
Toward the ond of the month there wcre runors that Prenier
Konoye might resign, portly on acccunt of ill he-lth and partly
because

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.96)
because of the desire cf the military to have a strong premier
of chauvinist leanings, such as General Araki or Adniral Suet-
sugu. It was elso soid that Mr. Hirotc's positicn wus sonewhat
shaken and that the hrmy and the Navy favored his replacenent by
Mr. Metsuoka, Presidont of the South Manchuria Railway Conpany.*
The fcllowing ten counselors to the Jupanose Cabinet, in
offect cabinet ministers without pertfclio, who are to sorve on
rccount of the "Chine Emergency", were appointed cn October 15:
Gener l Ugaki, former Governor Goner:l of Chosen; Mr. Chuji
Machidn, President of the Minseito p rty nd former Ministor for
Conmerce nd Inaustry; Beren Abe, retired amir 1 nd fermer
N vy Minister; Baron General Araki; Admirel Suetsugu, former
member of the Supreme War Council; Mr. Yonezo Maeda, former
Minister for Commerce and Industry; Mr. Kioshi Akita, former
Seiyukai speaker of the House of Representatives; Mr. Matsuoka,
Fresident of the South Manchurie Railway Company; Baron Seino-
suke Go, forner President of the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce; and
Mr. Seihin Ikeda, former Governor of the Bank of Japan. **
Marquis Koichi kido, President of the Bureau of Peerage
and Heraldry of the Imperial Household Department, wes appointed
Education Minister on October 22 to succced Mr. Eiji Yasui.
Although Mr. Yasui resigned ostensibly because of poor health,
it was rujiored that the change had been made to strenthen the
Konoye cabinet.
(b) Political Parties.
The political parties continued to give strong support
to the Governmont during the present cmergency period. It
will be recalled that according to Mr. Hirota the sontimont
among
*
Embassy's telegram No.105, October 30, 1937.
* *
Embassy's despatch No.2630, 0ctobcr 18, 1937.

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.96)
-22-
among the lecders of the pplitical parties agninst porticipaticn
in the Nine Power Trenty Conference was practically unanimous.*
IV. COURSE CF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERINM:ENT FINNCE.
Government finencial loaders publicly zexpressed optimism
9Y.5
concerning Japan's financial condition. On October 1 Mr. Masa-
teke Ote, Parliementary Vice Minister of Finance, ddclared in
in addross before one hundred locding businessmen in Osaka that
the resources of the Japanese nation todey would permit of an
oxpenditure of as much as Yen 40,000,000,000 for military pur-
poses. On October 20 Mr. Toyotaro Yuki, Governor of the Bank
of Japan, stated to nowspaper representetives that there was
nothing to worry about concerning the monotery situation in Japan.
Mr. Kya, the Finance Minister, st ted in  pruss interview on
October 22 that the Diet vould n ot be sked for addition-1 wer
funds t its next recular sossion; thet in his opinion there was
no neod for the Government to adopt a gener 1 price-fixing policy;
and th:t the absorption of public bonds was progressing smoothly.
On October 19 the Cabinet approved the Finance Minister's
plen for reducing Govern ent oxpenditures under the budgot for
the current fisc-1 yoar by Yen 131,307,000. according to
Domci, tho saving is to be accomplished by eliminating some
itens of public works from the budgot and by postponing expon-
ditures under othor itons.
VI.
GENERL ECONONIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Foreign Trade.
Exports from Japan for October amounted to Yon 297,299,000
and
Embassy's telegr-m No.484, Octobor 21, and Embussy's
despatch No.2643, October 29, 1937.

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.99)
and imports into Japan amounted to ¥244,406,000, as compared
vith exports for Septomber of ¥292,300,000 and imports of
263,081,000. This ropresonted a favorable balance of trado of
£52,893,000, es compared with a favorable balance for September
of ¥29,219,000.
The decline in imports cen be explained pertly by the Govern-
in nt's rostrictive measuros ageinat imports, and partly by scason-
al decline in imports of raw matorials.
The Japenese Government's restrictions on exports deemed
absolutely nucessery to the country in the present emergency
period and on imports went into offcct on October 10, in accord-
ance with the terms of the law promulgated on September 10.
It was reportod by the press that the Ministry of Comnerce
and Industry, after reaching an understonding with Japanese
cotton textile manufacturers and rew cotton declors, had decided
upon the following plan for the control of the cotton textile
industry: restriction of the importation of rew cotton to
1,500,000 piculs per month; imposition of an import control fee
of ten per cent ad valorem; and the anrouncement of an official
maximum price of cotton yarn every Saturday. It was estimated
importation of rew cotton for the
thet the restriction of the
yesr 1938 would entail a decrease in raw cotton imports of
approximately fifteen per cent as compared with the current
year.
(b)
Financial Trends.
The money market was easy; the stock market, influenced by
the successful military operations in China, improved considerab-
1: over the precccding month; expansion of industrial a:vitities
continued, especially in the field of staple industries; and
the averago yen exchango rate was $0.28875 as compared with

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.97)
$0.28905 for the month of September.
(c) Shipping.
On Octobor 15, according to tho JAPAN TILES, the Shipping
Ccntrol Board reached a decision to permit the inportation of
icreign ships in order to readjust donand end supply of hulls.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF IERICAN COMM:ERCIAL I TTRESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTITITIES OF FOREIGN COLMERCI:L I TERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR.
At its annuel general meeting, held on October 17, the
194
All-Japan Federation of Labor adopted  resolution calling for
the abolishrent of strikes in all brunches of industry during
the present Sino-Japanese conflict. According to the JAPAN
TIlS of October l, the resolution consisted of the following
three items:
"1. During the present China incident, all labor
disputes should be settled by peeceful und rational means,
and strikes in all branches of industry should be abolished.
2. To prevent profiteerin: by cepitelists in connection
with the suspension of strikes, an Emergency Industriel
Cooperation Committec shell bo orgnized joi tly by the
1
ropresontetives of labor, capitrl, and the Government.
3. Tho control of inductry and labor shall be adopted
as a nation-l labor policy."
Domei r ported that on Octoper 23 the Japaneso Seamen's
Union in Kobe had cabled a protest to the American Federation of
Libor and the Conmittce for Industrial Organization against the
adoption by theso organizations of resolutions dcnouncing Japan
as en aggressor in China.

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.99)
THE DEPARTLENT
DURING OCTOBER, 1937.
No.
Date
Subject
2612
Oct.1
Visit to China of J.F. WcGurk.
2613
Oct.1
Italo-Japanese Relations.
2614
Oct.1
Japan and the League of Nations.
2615
Oct.2
American and British Attitudes in the
Sino-Japanese Conflict.
2616
Oct.1
Soviet-Japanese kelations.
2617
Oct.2
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2618
Oct.8
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2619
Oct.8
Sino-Japanese Conflict, Matsukata
Conversation.
2620
Oct.9
Rental Allowance for Miss Varley.
2621
Oct.11
Personnel in Gcvernment-Owned Buildings
at Tokyo.
2622
Oct.8
Cipher Tables.
2623
Oct.13
Sick Lenve of Miss Russell.
2624
Oct.13
Monthly Political Report for September.
2625
Oct.15
Message from the Aabassador.
2626
Oct.22
Reaction in Japan to Anerican Policy
in Far Last.
2627
Oct.16
Chinese Customs and Salt Administrations.
2628
Oct.16
Temporary Control of Import and Export.
2629
Oct.18
Need for Coding Assistance.
2630
Oct.18
Temporary Cabinet Counselors.
2631
Oct.18
Germany-Italy-Japan.
2632
Octcl8a :  Sino-Japaneso Conflict - Reprosentetions mado.
2633
Oct.18
Sino-Japanese Conflict - Matsukata
Conversation.
2034
Oct.18
Sino-Japaneso Reletions - Document Despatch.
2635
Oct.19
Request for Supplies.
2636
Oct.19
Salc of U.S. Government Owned Land in
Yokohame
2637

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
No.
Date
Subject
2637
Oct.22
Diplomatic Vise Report.
2638
Oct.23
Return of Photographs.
2639
Oct.23
Cholera in Japan.
2640
Oct.29
Nurse Training in Japan.
2641
Oct.27
Narcotic Soizure on ASAA MARU.
2642
Oct.29
Sino-Japaneso Relations..Document Despatch.
2643
Oct.29
Sino-Jepanese Relctions .. Recommondations
Despatch.
2644
Oct.29
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2645
Oct.29
Brussels Conference.
2646
Oct.30
Temporary Employment of Mrs. Baust.
2647
Oct.30
Japanese Mission to the U.S.

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING OCTOBER, 1937.
No.
Date
Subject
438
Oct. 1, noon
Bombing in Chine.
.3
Oct. 1, 4 n. m.
Commercial Cable ikenair.
440
Oct. 1, 5 p. m.
China Coast Lighthouses.
441
Oct. 1, 6 p. m.
Parcel Post Convention.
442
Oct. 2, 5 p. m.
Foreign Officers with Japanese Forces
in China.
443
Oct. 4, 1 p. m.
Americans in Pingti Chen.
444
Oct. 4, 2 p. m.
Use of International Settlement at
Shanghai as Military Base.
445
Oct. 4, 5 p. m.
Requisition for Funds.
446
Oct. 5, 1 p. m.
Shipment of Crab Meat to New York.
147
Oct. 5, 4 p. m.
Henry M. Noel, clerk at Consulate in
Yokohama.
448 Oct. 5, 5 p. m.
Japanese Gocd Will Mission to the
United States.
449 Oct. 5, 6 p. r.
Conversation with Mr. Kojiro Matsukate,
Member of Japanese Mission to the United
Strtes.
450
Oct. 5, 7 p. m.
Bonbing of Sienhsien Catholic Mission.
451
Oct. 5, 8 p. m.
For Commerce from Commercial Attaché.
452
Oct
6. 1 p. m.
Foreign Ofricers with Japanese Forces
in China.
45.6.6p. m.
Visit of U.S.S. CILAUONT to Kobe.
454
Oct. , 7 p. m.
Shipments of Gold from Japan to the
United Statcs.
455 Oct. 7, 4 p. m.
Foreign Ofrice Stetements in Reply to
Presidert Roosevelt's Spcech of October 5.
456 Oct. 7, 5 p. n.
Japanese Press Reaction to President
Roosevelt's Speech of October 5.
457 0ct. 8, 4 n. m.
Jombine of Ida Kahn Hosnital at Nanchang.
458
Oct. 8, 5 p. m.
Visits of d s'royers STEWART and EDSALL
to hobo.
459 0ct. 8, 6 p. m.
Jopanese Official and Press Reaction to
Department's Announcement of October 6.
460

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2
一
No. Date
Subject
460 Oct. 8, 7 p. m.
Evacuation of American Citizens from th
Yangtze Valley.
461 0ct. 8, 8 p. m.
Receipt of Cipher Tables.
462
Oct. 9, 10 a. m.
Japanese Import Control Laws.
463
Oct. 9, 2 p. m.
Foreign Office Statement.
464
Oct. 9, 9 p. m.
Speech of German Ambassedor to China.
465
Oct. 11, 4 p. m.
For Commerce from Commercial Attaché.
466
Oct. 12, 5 p. m. Arrest in China of Mr. Haldore Hanson.
467
Oct. 12, 6 p. m.
Telegrams from Embassy at Nanking.
468
Oct. 12, 7 p. m.
China Blockade.
469
Oct. 13, 10 e. n. Request for Typewriters.
470 0ct. 13, 5 p. m.
Invitation from Belgian Government for
Japanese Government to Participete in
the Brussels Conference.
471 Oct. 14, noon
British Note Verbale to the Japanese
Government Regarding Bombing of Cultural
Establishments in Chine.
472 0ct. 14, 1 n. m.
Visits of U. S. Destroyers STEWART and
EDSALL to Kobe.
473 0ct. 14, 4 p. m.
Customs Revenues at Tientsin and
Chinwangtao.
474 0ct. 14, 6 p. m.
Japanese Press Comment on President
Roosevelt's Radio Address of October 12.
475 0ct. 15, 5 p. m.
Invitation to Japanese Government to
Attend Brussels Conference.
476 0ct. 16, 10 a. m.
Invitation to Japanese Government to
Attend Brussels Conference.
477 0ct. 16, 11 c. m.
Visits of U. S. Destroyers STEWART and
EDSALL to Yokohame.
478 0ct. 16, 4 n. m.
Visits of U. S. Destroyers STEWART and
EDSALL to Yokohame.
479 0ct. 18, 10 a. n.
Invitation to Jananese Government to
Attend Brussels Conference.
480 Oct. 18, 5 p. m.
Chinose Customs.
481 0ct. 20, 4 p. m.
Use by Japanese Forces of the Inter-
national Settlement st Shanghai.
482 0ct. 20, 5 p. m.
Question of Japanese Porticipetion in the
Brussels Conference.
483

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
NO.
Subject
483 0ct. 20, 6 p. m.
Possible Japanese Demands of China.
484 0ct. 21, 10 a. m
Question of Japanese Participation in
the Brussels Conference.
485 Oct. 21, 4 p. m.
Japanese Press Comment on "Moderation
of American Attitude".
485 0ct. 21, 5 p. m.
Manchukuo Foreign Exchange Control.
487 Oct. 22, 10 a. m. Invitation to Japanese Government to
Participate in the Brussels Conference.
488 Oct. 22, 6 p. m.
Question of Japanese Participation in
the Brussels Conference.
489 Oct. 23, 3 p. m.
Welfare of Mrs. Davies at Yokohama.
490 0ct. 23, 4 p. m.
Chinese Customs.
491 0ct. 23, 5 p. m.
Question of Japanese Participation in
the Brussels Conference.
492 0ct. 25, 6 p. m.
Attack on Americans in Shanghai by
Japanese Airplanes.
493 0ct. 26, 8 p. m.
Attack on Americans in Shanghei by
Japanese Airplanes.
494
4 0ct. 27, 3 p. m.
Clericel Situation in the Embassy.
495 Oct. 27, 4 p. m.
Safety of Foreign and Other Non-combatants
Lives in the International Settlement.
496 Oct. 27, 5 p. m.
Attack on Americans and British Subjects
in Shanghai by Japanese Airplanes.
497 Oct. 27, 6 p. m.
Killing of British Soldier at Shanghai.
498 Oct. 27, 7 p. m.
Japanese Refusal of Invitation to Attend
the Brussels Conference.
499 0ct. 27, 8 p. m.
Text of Japanese Government's Reply to
the Invitation to the Brussels Conference.
500 0ct. 28, 11 a. m.
Safety of Foreign and Other Non-combatant:
Lives in the International Settlement.
501 Oct. 28, 5 p. m.
Use of Shanghai as & Military Base.
502 Oct. 30, 11 a. m.
Reported Efforts of German Ambassador to
China as ediator in the Sino-Japanese
Conflict.
503 0ct. 30, 4 p. m.
Mediation between China and Japan.
504 0ct. 30, 5 p. m.
Bombing of Methodist Episcopal Mission
at Sungkiang.
505 0ct. 30, 7 p. m.
Suggestions for Brussels Conference.

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.89)
OTATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, December 6, 1907.
No. 200s.
SUBJECT:
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURINS
THE MOMEE OF NOVEBER, 19SW.
QR
XEGAA
ADVISER
DEPARTMENTOFSTATE
TE
48
Eui be ImaM. a
COMMONS
AND RDS
894.00
JC NO SIAIC
医
FANTNEN
3
E
957 0EC
P.R./120
INR
The Honorable
JAN 8-1938
DEPA
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93 of
1y
23, 1926, I have the honor to transm1t herewith the m-
y's monthly report om conditions in Japan for the month
lovember, 1937.
DECI 8 I NUP
oF
F/HC
Respectfully yours,
logure;
Joseph C. Grew.
Report No. 134.
Copy to Babessy, Peiping

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.94)
No. 134
REPORT CN CONLITICHS JN JAFA: DUHING
TIH MCNTH CF NCVE BER, 1937.

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.91)
I. RLLTICIS IH: T U ITD T:
(a) Represent :ti ns de by the mbassy in Connection
ith tre ino-J. penese Conilict.
.1,2,0,4,5
(b) Renction in Jpa. to the mericin Par astern
Policy.......
.7,8
Salmon Fishin. in .laskan aters..
.7,8
(a)
Jopanese Itentiors ith es sct to the
Philiprine Isl .s.......
.8
II.  I.S I C.CU ILS:
(c) Crine.....
.9,10,11,
12,13
(b) Great ritrin..
.14,15,16,
17,1€
(c) Italy and Ger.my..
.1ε,19
(d) Coviet ussir..
.19,0,21
(e) ancl ukuo..
.21,£2,23
(f) ain..
.23
() Irance..
.2
(h) The  ine Yo. er Tr aty Co.furence et  ussels......2.?4
(i) . iam.....
.14,15
(j) Finla. c....
.25
III. I  . I C. I IC.
(a) rmy nd  avy...
.25,6
(b) Colonies....
.26
IV.CC.IT
othin to ronort.
J.CVI.C
.26,27
VI.1 CCCIC
CI CC L I:
(a) Forei n Trace....
.27
(b) Financial Trends..
.27
(c) Incustri...
.28
VI. ACTIVITI C  I IC. C:
.2ε
TI. ACTIVITI C. O I C .
Mothin to report.

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.75)
(cortinina!
I.. 1.C.......
26,9
LISC  .

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.96)
1.
RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Representations made by the Embassy in Conection with the
Sino-Japanese Conflict.
711.94
Following a telegraphic request received from the Consulate
General at Shanghai, the Embassy made oral representations to the
Japanese Foreign Cffice on November 1 urging that since all Japan-
ese forces had withdrawn from the proxinity of the Hongkew and
Yenepoo areas of the International Settlement of Shanghai, those
ristricts should now be thrown open without delay cr restrictions
in order thet merchants might remove or otherwise deal with their
cargo and look after their factorius, plants, and cther properties.
In reply, the Foreign Office stated that the districts in question
were still under the control of the Japanese military; that while
the Chinese might have been driven out cf those districts they con-
tinued to fire into them; and that the Japanese military were loath
to allow foreigners more facilitius to enter the district because
of the danger to which they (the ferein rs) would te exposed.*
In reply to the Embassy's protust of cctcber 3o acainst the
bombing by Japanene air lan s on Cctobor 29 of the Methodist
Episcopal Mission at Sun ki ns, l8 milos southwest of changhai,
on November 1l the Foreign Office addressed a note to the Embassy
stating that the Japanese forces, in caurryint cut their bombing
of the Sungkiang er , were duly heudful of foruign richts and in-
terests but had et th tim no data cor.cerning th location of
the property of the Aneric:n Church in the ure ; that, for the
sake of safety, flyins at a very low altitude had to be avoided
in the vicinity of tih arcn cccupid by the Chinese forces; that
or this account the Japan se forces w re unabl. to reco nize the
narkings
Telegram to the Department from the Consulat General at
Shenghei No. 904, October 29 end Embassy's tclegram No. 513,
November 2, 1937.

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.96)
morkings of the Mission; thet the incident was very sincerely re-
gretted but that it was wholly due to a mistake; that the Japan-
ese Government would exert its best efforts not to repeat such
ctions; and that the Japanese Government was ready to give ade-
quate consideration in regard to the d'mages sustained by the
Mission.*
In response to a request from the Consulate General at Shanghai.
the Embassy addressed a memorandum to the Foreien Office on Novem-
ber 12 stating that according to information just received, the
property of the American Church Missicn at Sungkiang had been bombed
and destroyed by Japanese airplanes on November 2, and protesting
against an unwarrantable attack which expcsed to grave danger the
lives of Americans and other non-combatants a.d inflicted damage
upon a humanitarian establishment. The Forein O:fice's reply,
dated November 25, statec thet when Jaranese naval planes bombed
varicus militery esteblishments of the Chinese Army at Sungkiang,
those engaged in the action were duly selicitcus of the rights and
interests of foreisn Powers; that in th belief of the Foreign
ofrice the American Embassy would understand that mishaps are pos-
ible in spite of the strictust cantien; thut it was clear that
the present case was wholly the result of an error consequent upon
low visibility ond the impossibility of distin, uishing any bea-
cons or markers indicating the property of Americans; and that the
Tapanese Government expressed profcund regr it for the occurrence
und stood ready to  ive censideration to the matter of loss or
inmage sustained by the Mission.**
A telegram from the Embassy at Nanking dated November 12
uported that, accordine to information furnished by the Reverend
H. A..
Tel gram to the Depertment from the Consulcte G neral at Shanghal
No. 906, Cctober 29, nd Emb ssy's tel-sram No. t04, Cctob-r 30
：
No. 537, November 12, 1937.
Telogrem to the I portment from the Consul te General et Shangha:
No. 959, November 11, nd Embassy's tel erams No. 534, Novembur 11
end No. 570, Novomber 27, 1937.

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.93)
H. A. McNulty, Ch-irman of the Soochow Internntionel Relief Commiti.
the Japanese militery through rotices dropped from planes had wari
the population of Soochow that after November 13 they would bomb
that city indiscriminately. The Enbassy at Nonking stated furthr
hat Soochow was filled with civilien pepulation and civilian refu-
gees and requested that Nr. Gauss nd Admiril Yarnell get in touch
with the Japanese Enbassy nd military at Shanghoi and see whether
anything could be con: to prevent a disastrous bombing or at least
to give time for some arrangement to be made between the Japanese
and Chinese military for a mutually greed upon s' fe area for refu-
gees to be token to. On November l the Embossy made representa-
tions to the Foreien Oirice in the sonse of this telegram.*
Pursuant to the Lupartment's instrueti i, th. Embassy ad-
dressed a memorendum to the For ign Otfice on Nov mber 19 stating
thot, nccording tc informotion received by the abossy, buildings
of the Americen Church Hicsion t usih, marhed el arly with Ameri-
con floes on the roofs, hod b un. bomb d en Nov mb r 12 by Japon-
s plenes, nd protestir f inst n unw rr t bi tt-ck which
rnd exposed to erave  ns r th lives of An ric ns nd oth r non-
cumbatants nd mirht h v. inriict d dot  en hum nitrier.
st: blishm:nt.**
On Novomber 17 th spok sm n of th Japtnese -or irn Crfice in-
formed press represen tives th t th   h i wsp per corres-
pondents, in attrilutinr to Gel Mateui, Comn der of the Jar-
unese forces in the Sh ngh i r, th: stat nt th t Jopan might
coupy the Internetion l Settla nt, h'e not correctly quoted th.
~rr.1.***
Pursu nt to the Dupertment's instructions, on Novem-
ber20
* Tolegrom from the Enbasey t Nonkinr No. 907, November 12, and
Emrcssy's telegr m No. 539, Ncvomb r 13, 1937.
Telegram from the Embassy t Nonki., No. 9oe, November 12,
Department's telearam No. oi, Nov mt r 18,  nd Emb-ssy's tI r
No. 552, Novombor 19, 1937.
Embnssy's telegram No. 547, Novembor 17, 1937.

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.95)
-4-
ber 20 the Embassy made an iniormal approach to tho Jepenes Torelan
office, referring to the Foreign Office spokesman's st temers ef
Jovember 17 nd expressing confident hepe thet th. Jap nose icvern
ant had no intention of toking any action prejuancial to foreign
rights end interests in the Internetionol Sottlem nt at Shanghai
or in disreg rd of the administretive functions nd recognized res-
ponsibilities of the Settlement authorities.*
On November 30 the Eritish Anbessador, Sir Robert Craigie. in-
formed Mr. Grew thrt the Japanese cutherities at Shanghai had in-
diceted thrt on December 1 Jopanese troops woulc be sunt to occupy
Japanese property inside sectors assig..  to Anericon ond Italian
military contingents cnd also th t   reeps vould be trans-
ported through the Internetional Settlment t nt' and other
points beyond. The British Anbessador edded thet che Counselor of
the Eritish Embassy weuld make represencatien: ur that day, Novem-
ber 3o. In view of the urgeney of the matter, tie Anbassador deemed
it inexpedient to await r etions fr  he Lop rtment. Accordine-
y, the Ccuns lor of the Matar y calleu n ch Chiof of the East Asia
Bureau of the Foreigr Cffice I. Hovember  and urged that Japanese
troops be directed to abstain fr.m unterir: the areas concerned at
that time. The Chief of the Last Asia Fureau stated that no in-
formatior. concerning the matter had been received by the Foreign ofi
and that he would at cnce communicate with the Japanese authorities
n Shanghai. However, he mave no other commitment.**
Cn
Department's telefram No. 303, November 18, and Embassy's telegran
No. 55E, November 20, 1937.
Embassy's telegram No. 582, November 30, 1937.

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.99)
On November 27 Sir Robert Craigie informed Mr. Grew that it was
upon instructions issued to them by General Matsui and not from the
Japanese Foreign Office that Japanese civil officials at Shanghai
refused to discuss the customs question with British and other
third party representatives. In a telegram to the Department
dated November 27 the Ambassador stated that he shared the British
Ambassador's concern over the customs issue in view of the possi-
bility that the Japanese military might force an objectionable ar-
rangement upon the local Chinese customs officials before something
could be done to stop it.
Therefore, the Ambassador recommended to
the Department thet action should be taken most urgently to pro-
tect and preserve tangible American interests in China, namely,
the integrity of the Shanghai customs ana the disposition of its
revenues. The Ambessador recommended parallel, not joint, action
and a formal signed note to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Con-
curring with the Ambassador's recommendations, the Lepartment in-
structed him to address to the Minister for Foreien Affairs a formal
signed note to the following effect: th United States Govern-
ment shares with the Japanese Government end with other
Governments
a well-recognized economic and historic interest in the Chinese
custors administration; as the Japarese Government is aware, the in-
tegrity of the Chinese custons end the disposition of its revenues
constitute a definite American interust; the American Government
has a specific concern ind a specific interest in the details of
any scheme, to be applicable even during the puriod of hostilities,
which affects the administration and the distribution of the reven-
ues of the cust oms survice; and the American Government makes urgent
requcst that its representatives at Shanghei b. consulted in rcspect
to eny arrangements mede.*
In delivering his signed note on Novem-
ber 28
Embassy's telegram No. 575, November 27, Lipertment's telegrem
No. 318, November 27, 1937.

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.97)
alkeu Tor nearly an hour with the Minister
for Foreign Affairs concerning the Chinese customs. The salient
point of this conversation was Mr. Hirota's admission that he did
not know what was going on in the customs talks in Shanghai. How-
ever, he gave the Ambassador three assurances: (1) that no Ameri-
can interest in the Chinese customs would be harmed; (2) that if
anything occurred in that connection which the American Government
did not like he would "take care of it" if the Ambassador called
upon him to do so; and (3) that he would instruct the Japanese
Consul General in Shanghai that if the American Consul General
turned to him for information he was to keep Mr. Gauss advised of
all developments and to give full consideration to any suggestions
made in connection with American interests in the customs. Judging
from the context of further remarks made by Mr. Hirota it appeared
that these three assurances should be interpreted as applying to
the concrete interest of the United States in the customs revenue
rather than to a general interest in the inviolability of the cus-
toms administration. Furthermo.e, the Minister for Foreign Affairs
made no admissicn of the principle thet no
new arrangement affect-
ing the customs edministration or revenues coula properly be made
without the approvol of the Americ n Gcvernnent.
Mr. Hirote told
Mr. Grew that the latter's representatiens would require study and
that he would reply to the Ambassador's note in due ccurse.*
Pursuent to the Lepartment's instructicns end after represen-
tations had been made ty the British and French Ambassadors, the
Ambassador called on the Ministor for Foreign Affairs on November 26
end left with him en aide memoire expressing the American Govern-
rent's very rual interest in the proservation of the integrity of
the Chinese customs and its administrative functions et Shanghai,
including the safeguarding of the customs revenues.**
(上2
★
Embassy's tolegram No. 576, November 2s, 1937.
Department's telegram No. 316, November 24, and Emtessy's tole-
grem No. 567, November 26, 1937.

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.98)
 mcan Far Eastern policy.
It will be recalled that adverse criticism of the American Far
Eastern policy abated toward the end of October. Notwithstanding
the participation of the United States in the Nine Power Treaty
Conference at Brussels and rumors thet the United States was more
responsible for the holding of the Conference than the other Powers
concerned, surprisingly little invective against the United States
appeared in the Japanese press. As the sessinns of the Conference
proceeded and as it became more and more apparent that no action
would be taken by the Conference in an effort to coerce Japan,
criticism of American policy became less and less manifest.
(c) Salmon Fishing in Alaskan Waters.
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, on November 24 the
Ambassador called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs, explained
orally the position of the American Government concerning the
Alaskan salmon fisheries situetion and left with him a memorndum
and en side-mémoire urging that the Jap nese Government take early
and effective action to prevent the taking by Japanese vessels of
salmon in Bristol Bey and other offshore salmon fishing ereas of
Alaska.*
Mr. Hirota made no comment except to ex-ress surprise
thet Japanese were still rishing for salmon in Alaskan waters in
spite of the refusal of the Japanese Government to gr: nt licenses.
He seid that he would immedintely take the matter up with the
Department of Agriculture and would give the Enbassy & reply at
the earliest possible moment.
By its telegrem dated November 29 the Department instructed
he Ambassador, in his discretion, to cll upon the Minister for
oreign Affeirs agein and emphasize once more the urgency of prompt
ection
Department's telegrams Nos. 307, November 19; 309, November 20;
311, November 22; Embassy's telegrams Nos. 560, November 22;
and 563, November 24, 1937.

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.97)
uno uapenese Government In view or the following ractors:
the continuous pressure being exerted on the Depertment by organ-
ized fishing interests, members of Coneress, εnd the general public
in regard to the Alaske salmon fishine question; the introduction
in Congress by Delegate Dinond of a for-rueching bill for the pro-
tection of Alnskan fisheris; nd the continuous possibility of
direct action ce inst Japanese shippine on the Pacific Coast by labor
elements sympathetic to the fishing industry. Having received an
intimation thet Mr. Hirota was cctively interustine himself in a
prompt end favorcble reply to the Embrssy's original representations
of November 24, the Ambassador did not personr lly call on the Min-
ister for Foreign aff.irs to pr sunt the Department's views as set
forth in this telegram. Howover, he embodied those views in a per-
sonal letter to r. Hirota, which v:s l ft on November 30 by a member
of the Embassy staff with s responsible official of the I oreign
Office.*
(d) Jopanese intentions with respect to the Philippine Islands.
In a conversation on November 20 with Mi. J. V. A. MacMurray,
Chairman of the Joint Freparatory Committee on Philirpine Arfairs,
the Minister for Foreign Affairs volunteered the following state-
ments: that he understood that there was in the Philirpine Islands
nd elsewhere considerable apprehension of ageressive designs on
the part of Japan; thet there was no basis for eny such fear; and
that Japan had no designs on the Philippines.*
II.
Department's telegram No. 320, November 29, and Embassy's
telegram No. 581, November 30, 1937.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2669, November 22, 1937.

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.98)
II. RELATIONS TITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.
793.94
The Japanese Army forces in China were not particularly active
on the Peiping-Hankow Reilway, Tientsin-Pukow Railway, and Shansi-
Suiyuan fronts, but they made a rapid advance against the Chinese
forces which had been driven out of the Shanhai area and were at-
tempting to defend various strategic positions between Shenghai and
Nanking. According to announcements issued by the Japenese Army,
the following places were teken in the course of the month's hostili-
ties: Sunekiang on November 9; on November 15, Kiating, the point
at which the Japanese forces suspended operations in March 1932;
Soochow on November 20;
Huchow, immediately south of Leke Taihu, on November 24; Kiangyin
Fortress on November 29; and Kwangteh, just west of the Kiangsu-
Anhwei border, on November O.
In other woras, by the end of the
month the Japanese forces had driven the Chinese away from the lake
district and had advanced to noirts close to Nankine. On November 20
D
the Chinese Government announced officially that Nanking had been
1W
abandoned and that the capital would be renoved to Chungking.
Havin penetrated the Honan border on the Feiping-Henkow
Railway line in Cctober, the Japanese forces apparently made no
INO
serious effort to aavance into the interior of that Frovirce. In
fact, the Japanese were compelled to retrece their steps northward
on the reilway in order to reca: ture positions in southern Hopei
that had been taken by the Chirese. However, after the successful
conclusion of these maneuvers, the Japanese forces turned their
attacks tc the east, taking Pinghsiang, eihsien, and intermediate
oints, crossing the Hopei-Shentune border into Shentung Province,
 capturins Lintsine on November l. It was asserted that the
"arenesc eir forces had, by the und of the month, gained complete
jontrcl of the air on the Lunghai Reilway between Loyang end Sian.
on

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.95)
On the Tientsin-Pukow Railway front the Japanese claimed on
November 17 to heve secured complete control of Shantung Province
north of the Yellow River.
Taiyuan, the capitel of Shansi Province, was taken by the
Japanese on November 6 end for the romainder of the month little
military activity appears to heve tsken plece in that Province.
There was little action in the Province of Suiyuan.
It became patent from militery ectivities during the month
end from public statements issued by Jepsnese officirls that
the Japanese planned to capture Nankine, but there was no def-
inite indicrtion es to how fer they would pursue their military
compaign Eainst the retirine Chinese forces. In an interview
with newsrrper corres ondents on November 25 Goneral Matsui,
Commander of the Japenese Army iorces in th- Shangh: i-Nanking cren,
duclared that his Arny Would continue fighting until General
01W
Chi ng Kei-shek surrendered na thet this course would be pursued
in conformity with the spiiit of th: Imperial Rescript sronted
rec ntly. He added thet he could not prodict where the present
comp'ign vould und but thrt it might uxtund to Henkow or to Chung-
1N0
king or oven farther west. Dor ei attributed to General Motsui
the stotement that Jopan would not -ttumpt "economic advances" in
the occupied zones nnd that t ik of such  conomic edvences was
likely to invite denunci: tion by third p rties or by China of
Japon s n ageressor. On Nov mber 26 Promier Konoye intimatud
to newsp per correspondents thet the Japanese milit ry forces
might "ev ntually be forcud" to ndv nce s fur es Hankow and
riter-ted th-t th: fundarelt l obj ctive of Japan's expeditionary
forces in Chinn was to porsuode the National Government of Chine to
rulinquish its enti-J panese policy.
Air

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.94)
 rus by the Japenose continued throuehout China. After
a respite of several veeks,on November 24 Japenese cirplrnes bombed
various. poirts in Kvangtung Province, includine th: Socca Tigris
Fort nd Centon.
Genurel Sugiyomn, th. ar Minister, submitted a report to the
Cabinet on Novomber 19 in which he estimated the Chirouse casualties
pn the Shanghoi front since th beginning of the general offensive
on October 23 at 300,000, of which 80,000 were sid to have beon
left dend on the field. It was snnounced by the iar Ministry on
November 20 that since the buginnine of hostilities on July 7 on
all fronts in Chin, excepting the Shonsi fiont (for which figures
were not svsilable), 16,O48 Japnese had been killed, th:t the
DIW
totr1 Chilese ccsua1ties were 554,290, tiat 145,470 Chinese dend
had been found cn b ttl fields by th Jap nese, nd tr't 9, 300
Chirese prisoners hid been teken.
It could not be determined durine the month under review
INO
whether J-pen would declare wor on Chin in the near future. In
an int rview with Japonese press Iepresont tivus on November 26
the Fremier stated th't the Gov rnment n d buen studying the ques-
tion of d claring w'r on Chine but h d rurched no conclusion and
that for the time buing no cction woula be takun.* At the close
of the month the Enb ssy h -rd fr om oth r sourcus thrt a declara-
tion of wer was imainent.** It  ppe red thet the dutermining fector
in the possibility of  declor tion of ar vould be whether supplies
of rms and munitions to Chiin continued in substantirl quantities.***
J'p'n's idces concerning terms of a possible p ace settlemert
rem ined nebulous. Genernl Metsui wrs reported to fevor a settle-
ment
*
Emb-ssy's telegram No. 571, Novomber 27, 1937.
**
Enbassy's telcgr m No. 5e0, November 30, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegrem No. 561, Novomber 23, 1937.

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.96)
ne rolrowing Tines: Chinese recotnition of "Manchukuo";
establishment of autonomous anti-communist régimes in North China
and Inner Mongolia; appointment of a uapanese as Inspector General
or China's Maritime Custons; adherence to an anti-Comintern pact
by General Chiang Kai-shek; prohibition of the use by China of
military aircraft; disarmament of the Chinese Army with the excep-
tion of a comparatively small number of Peace Freservation troops
needed for the maintenance or internal crder; ard establishment of
Japarese Concessinns in the principal Chinese port, including
Shanehai, Foochow, Amoy, and Hangc ow, as vell es permanent occu-
pation of all the islands along the China Cosst now held by the
Japarese forces. According to this rumor, General Matsui informed
aIW
Admiral Sir Charles Little, Commander of the British naval forces
in China waters, of "his peace cenditions". However, the spokes-
man of the Japanese Foreign Office denied knowled. e of the report
and added that in his opinion it was quite un'ikely that General
Matsui had made such an approach to Adiral Sir Charles Little
1NO
without heving consulted the  uthorities concerned in Tokyo. In
his newsnaper interview of Nov mber 26 Premier Konoye stated that
Jepan lid not in ict that it c uld iot necctiate for peace because
either Chi  .g Kai-shek or the Naticnalist Party was in power but
that if the Chinese covernment pinned its hone on  war of endurance,
Japen was prepared for that.*
According to a Domei despatch frem Kalgan dated November 22,
the F derated A tor omous Govurnment of Inner Moncolir, the Autono-
mous Governmert of Southern Cheha., anu the Autonomous Government
or Northern Suiyuan si ned a charter in Kalran during Hovember for
. Federated Committee to unite the peonle of the Chinese and Mongol-
ian races living in these aruas. A so-called autonomous régime
for
* Embassy's tolegr m No. 571, November 27, 1937.

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.95)
on the principles of opposition to the Nanking Government end eredi-
cation of communism.
Complicaticns arose over Japan's position vis-à-vis the Inter-
.ational Settlement in Shan hai &fter the vithdrawal of Chinese troops
from the city. In an interview with press correspondents on Novem-
ber 1l, General Matsui intimated thet circumst nces were possible in
which the Jepanese forces at Shanghai might consider it neccssary
to teke over from the garrisons of other Powers the sectors of the
Interrat onel Settlement and also the French Concession. Subse-
quently, the Jepanese ruthorities at Shanghei indicated thet on
December 1 Japanese troops would be sent to occupy Japanese proper-
a1m
ty inside sectors essigned to Americar. cnd Italian military contin-
gents end that Jepanese troops would be transported throueh the
Internetional Settloment to lantao and other points beyond.
Furthor or, the Jap nese nuthorities thrertened to exercise
1N0
virtul cortrol over the Chinuse custors ndministration in Shanghai.
In this connection, the srokesmn or the J panese Foreion Orfice
told for irn pr ss correspondents on November 24 thot the Jepanese
people thought it quite "natir 1" to control any Chinese organs
in the Int rn ticnal Settloment that might, bec use of their close
connection with the Chinese military iorces, be used aEainst Japan,
and thot under such circunstonces Guneral mstsui would request con-
trol of the Chinese customs and other agencies. On November 29
the spok smen stated that Chine's for in oblications eu' ranteed on
revonues from the Chines. Maritime Customs would be respected by
Japan. The representations made by the Anericon, British, and
French Governm nts on th, Sh ngh-i cuetoms issue are dealt with in
other ports of the present report.
(b)

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.93)
(b) Gret Brit-in.
(1) Ropresentotions mede to the Japonese Government in
Tokyo concernine the Sino-J p: nese conflict.
It vill be r:crlled th-t on Octcbur 29 the British raval auth-
orities in Sh neh i prot sted ag inet th killing by Japenuse shells
of four British soldiers in tht city r Cctoter 29.* As far as
the Enb ssy is awore no protest was made by the British Embassy in
Tokyo. In ny case, the Jop nese Minister for Forien Affairs ad-
dressed a note to the British Ambassedor in Tokyo on November 1
st-ting th t tre Jepinese Government profcundly regretted the oc-
currence of the incident in which British saldiers had been killed
and wounded as th: result of accidental rii ing by Jepanese soldiers
on October 29. The note st ted further th-t the Japarese Govern-
a nt ofrered n polo y in the name of the Jop'n use forces, had
t ken the nocessary pr couticrs to prevent the rocurrence of such
incidents, would deal in .. pnropriat panner with those concern-
d in this rfair", und wos r parec t pay the necessary compensa-
tion to th Briti I. solaiers who were illed  r wound d.**
Accorains to inform tion rurnished by the British Embassy, on
Movember 19 the Vice Minister for Foroirr Afr ir: told the British
Ambessador that th. Jop nese reprecent tives t Shangnei had been
inetructed te discuss tihe question of the Sh n bei Custons with
the local nutrorities in a cencilictory p irit. actins under his
Governn nt's instrueti ne, on November 22 th Fritish Anbasssdor
ddress d to the Vicu Minicter   te  auostin tht instructions
be s nt to Shanehoi by th. J ponuse Govurimont to insure that Mr.
Chozaki, Jap rese Concml ct Aaey tomporarily acsirned to Shonghai,
ould cclloborote rully : ith Hr. Hell-P tch, Pinancial Attaché of
the British Emb ssy ut Nonkinr, who had been  uthorizud by the
British Gevernmount to orr nee  basis of sottlement of the Cuctoms
issue.
The
Embassy's despatch No. 2662, Nev mb.r 12, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 517, Nov mb . 4, 197.

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.97)
Tho British Ambassador s noto or Novembir 22 ihvited tno vice
Minister's attention to a report received from the British Consul
Ganeral at Shanghoi to the effect that the Japrnese naval euthori-
ties hnd seized the customs preventive fleet in Shenghui. In addi-
tion, with reference to  report th t the Japanese naval ruthorities
had seized a lrrge dredger of the Wiengpoo Conservancy Board, the
note expressed the British Government's hope thet the Japaneso Gov-
ernment would send instructions for the dredger to be relcased, in
viow of the importence to internotioncl shipping interests of a
deep chennel for sengoing vessels crlling st Shengh: i. The British
Amb:ssador dded th't in the present circumst'nces the mnintenance
of such a chonnel could be of no milit ry assistance to China as
eguinst Jpon.
Cn November 26 the followine dreft proposnl for the readjust-
ment of the Chinese customs administration wos hended to the Mirister
for Foruign Affrirs by tho British Ambassedor, who mrde the stetement
that "the British Government have rueson to bolieve that the proposal
miaht prove acceptable to the verious "utlhorities concerned"; "(1)
Crertion of n internationel benker's comaission as trustees for all
interests concerned; (2) this commission to comprise on, representa-
tive of each of the Americcn, British, French, end Jepanese banks;
(3) customs rovenues from all Chin to be centrelized at Shanghai
under th) control of the commission; (4) deposits to be divided
into four equal shares, ono share to banks of cach netionality;
(5) peyments of loans and indemnity in accordence with the prin-
ciple of priority to be made out of the net Customs revenue in res-
pedt of all Chinese Government obligrtions secured on the Customs
that were receiving servicc as of July 1, 1937; (6) the arrange-
mont to be oporated by the Inspector Generel of Customs under the
supervision of the commission; (7) the arrangement to obtain during
the hostilities."
The

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.98)
The British Amb ssador receivod informetion that it was upon
instructions issued to them by General M:tsui, nd not from tho
Japanese Foreign Office, thet Japanose civil officials et Shanghei
refused to discuss the customs questicn with British cnd other
third party representotiv s. As a consequence or this information
and pursurlt to instructiors recuived fron his Government, the Brit-
ish Ambessador delivered a formul signed note to the Minister for
Foreign Affeirs on Novombor 28 stating that the British took the
stroneest possible xception to any Japonese efforts to settle the
customs question only with the local Shanchai customs cuthorities
bec-use the customs revenues were, as recoenized by Japan, an in-
ternationnl interest; that the British Government mointained thet
no proper errangement could be reached without reference to other
intorested Governments; and that Mr. Holl-Patch, Financirl Attaché
of the British Umbassy at Nanking, hed beon appointod to conduct the
regotistions with the Japrnese, but that any crrangemert reached
should be subject to the approvel of the various interested Gov-
ernments civen through their representatives in Tokyo. The Minis-
ter for Foreign Affeirs stated that he would instruct the Jepanese
Consul Guneral in Shanghai to :ive full considoration to any plan
proposed by Mr. Hall-Patch and cave assurances thot no ducision would
be taken until the letter's vicws had been so considcred.*
On November 30 the British Embassy mrde represuntations con-
cerning the plen of the Jnpenese authorities at Shanghai to sund
troops to occupy Japeneso property insido sectors assigned to
American and Italian contingonts and to transport Japanase troops
through the International Settloment to Nantno and other points
beyond.
**
(2)
Embassy's telegram No. 575, Novomber 27, and No. 579, Novanber 29,
1937.
Embassy's telegram No. 582, Novomber 3, 1937.

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.96)
Hostile feelings in Jaran against Grurt Britain inercsed in
intensity curing the month. There were putlisher stetemente in
the ewspopers attacking Great Britein's F: E stern poliey cad
wass meetings denouncing thet country tor "ereeurcgirg bolshovism
in Chine and disturbing the For Esst". * Purtiurmont, ni-
British editorials eppecred in the Jopenese rewopunere  more
frequently than during proceding months. Th i ri lin. aken
by persons and organizations who denourced Crut rit. in w s thet
the lntter country had in its selfish offorts to protcct British.
interests in China boen obstructing Jepan's "jurt" policy in Eist
Asia.
It was reported by Japaneso newspapers on Noveaher 20 that the
British Ambassador had on the day bofcre crlled on the Vice Minister
for Foreign Affairs and tricd to sound him out on some method cal-
culated to bring ebout puace. The press etiributed this step to
Grent Britein's failure to thwart Japen's Chinn policy and to an
imminent change in the British attitude. Sir icbert Croigie is-
sued a statement to the press in which he  nied that the British
Government had offered to mediate in the Sinc-Jepanese conflies.**
(3) British Representntions Concerning the Aholition of
Jepanose xtraterritoriel Rights in "Marchukuo".
On November 5, the dey on which the treaty between Jepan and
"Manchukuo" abolishine Japenese extraterritcrial rights in the
lattor erea was signod at hsinkirg, Mr. Ch-ng Chi.s-hui, Premier
of "Manchukuo", issued a statement in which ho csserted that the
"Manchukuo" Government had deciced to ebolish extraterritorial
rights still enjoyed by foreign nationals other than Jepenese in
"Manchukuo".
Embassy's dospatch No. 268l, November 30, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 556, November 20. 1937.

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.97)
stuconeJapamestrorelgn
Office a note dated November 30 stating that the British Consul Gen-
eral at Mukden had been given the following instructions: to inform
immediately the authorities at Hsinking that "unilateral abrogation
of treaty rights" cannot be accepted by the British Government; to
refer to the undertaking given by the "Manchukuo" Government in its
note to the Powers on March 12, 1932, tc discharge faithfully the
obligations incurred by the Republic of China in Manchuria by viltue
of treaty stipulations with foreign countries; to state that the
British Government does not regard the treaty signed between Japan
and "Manchukuo" on November 5, 1937, or the "official statement"
issued by the Premier of "Manchukuo" on November 5 concerning the
rights of foreigners, as afiecting in any way the extraterritorial
rights in Manchuria of British subjects; and to inform the "Manchukuo
authorities that the future treatment of Britisi subjects under a
régime which pretends to ignore their extreterritorial rights
would be watched with the greatest corcern by the British Govern-
nent.*
(c) Italy and Gerlay.
Italy joined the Jananese-Germen anti-cointern pact on
November t, and the hews of Italy's adherence to the pact was en-
thusiastically received in Japan and approved by ali the Japanere
newspepers.**
Italy's step was a further nrrk of the dufirite
terminaticn of Japan's period of political and moral isolation
whic.. followed the Menchurian Incident in 19l, and it also em-
phasized the abandonnont of Japen's previous alignment with the
e ocratic Powers. Furthermore, it stronethened the position of
the
Embassy's telegram No. 553, Novumber 19, and desratch No. 2661.
Nevember 10, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 52t, November 8, 1937.

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.94)
pretext of "anti-conmunism" to change the stasus quo."
There were indiceti ns during the month th't in addition o the
negotiations which hrd been taking place for sever.i months ror th
conclusion of a new conmercial fgruenent betw en Japan unc Itely,
the pessibilities or a trimeuler trade orreneement amons J pan.
Germany, end Italy were being examincd.** About the midale of the
month the press reported that a plan vas under consiceraticn where-
by Germany and Italy ould reco rize "Manchukuo", and it was offi-
cially announced on November 29 thet de jure recognition of
"Manchukuo" had beer oxtended by Itely on that date.***
It was
soid that Mr. Cortes, the Italian Consul Cener1 in Mukden, would
be appointed Italian Chargé d'Affaires at lisinking.
An organization knovr. s the Japan-Germen-Italion Society was
founded on November 19 for the purpose of promcting friendly rela-
tions among the three countries and of strengthening "spiritual
cooperation" amone them, Vice Admiral Sukeeki Nakashima being ap-
pointed president of the society.
There were persistont but unconfirmed rumors throughout the
month thet Reichsfuhrer Hitler had expressed his willingness to
mediete in the Sino-Japanese conflict.
The J-penese Government,
however, ave no indicntion whatsoever that it had altered its
firm position of opposition to ny mediatory fforts by third
Powers.
(d) Soviet Russia.
761.9
While there were no indications thot the Jovi t Union contem-
NIN
rlosed onterine the sine-Jepanese conflict on the side of Chine, re-
ports were prevelent of inereased Soviet ossistance to China in the
'NO
form of wer surplies. For xample, according to infommation receir-
ec
* Embassy's despatch No. 2e30, Nove ber 13, 1937.
**Embassy's telegram No. 540, Novetber 13, 1937.
***Embassy's telegram No. 579, November 29, 1937.

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.90)
taché arrived in Nanking on Novemtr se scce ned oy a mter or
bombing and pursuit plenes and severel Soviet pilets mi ground
men.Y Newly arrived Soviet planes were repertea to nay. taher
prat in ceriel conpats wiur the Jeparese ir Nuhina
The most serious thre t to So iet-Japrese rol  io s, however,
appeared to lie in possible future covelopronts tt m art upon the
continued Japanese edvance inte Trner Menrelin, ard ovurd the Cuter
Mongolian frontier. A well-known uthority en Monee ir ffairs,
Mr. Owen Lattimore, recently stated to mombers or the Embassy staff
that in his opinion the Soviet Union would be forced to wage war
a1W
against Japan if Cuter Mongolin should be invaded by Japanese forces,
in view of almost certain repercussions, adversuly arfectine the
U.s.S.R., in vurious astern districts of the Soviet Unicn which
ould result frem failure by the Sovict Union to protect tuter
Mengolia by force ef eras.
A few minor developmonts in Sovi t-Jeprnese relotions may be
1N0
noted. On Nevorber 14 the Jap nese Embassy in Moscow protested
againet the forced unieration into rumete p rts of the Soviut Union
of 2o0,o0o Korean rusidents of the m ritime provinces. In reply
to this protest th Sovict Foreign Commiss riet d clered i. Iov m-
ber a7 thot the Sovict Unien could noet aecept th position that the
Japen me Embossy held ny rirht to intervene in the remov I of
Koreene, who are Soviet citizens, fron the Fritine Provinces.
The Japanese Foreirm Cifice protusted to the Soviet Enbassy in
Tokyo on November 27 ppoinst the allesed ill truatment of Japan-
se subjucts in th Seviet Union, norticularly of members oi the
sters of the Jopanese Gonculate Generel in vi li cstok.
Hotintions
 Tel srem to the Deporom nt from e Mab sse t Nonkine Ne. 972.
November 29, 137.

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.95)
..s.R. concucted in
/Harbin finally resulted in en greement providing for thereflonting
of the armed craft sunk by the Jap nese in the Amur River in June
1937 and for the rulease of the steanship of the North Manchuric
Gold Mining Company which hed been dutained by Soviet cuthorities
severel months before. The press reported that little progress
1No
was being mede towaro the conclusion of a revised Soviut-Japanese
fisheries convention, the siening of which was postponed by the
Soviet authorities in the lstter part of 1936 because of the con-
clusion of the Japanese-German enti-Comintern pact.
(e) "Manchukuo".
(1) Treaty between J: ran and "Monchukuc" bolishing
Japanese extr territoricl rights in "Manchukuo".
General Kenkichi Uyeda, Japanese Ambassador to "Manchukuo",
end Mr. Chong Ching-hui, Premier of "Menchukuo", signed a treaty
on Ncvember 5 to go into effect on December 1, providing for the
cbolition of Japanese extr: territorinl rights in "Manchukuo" and for
the transfer to "M nchukuo" of the dministrative rights over the
South Manchuria Railway zone. The abolition of Jop nese extraterri-
torial rights provided for by the treaty ent ils intur alia the
tormination of the system of consular courts fer Jo anese subjects
and the atolition of Jap:nese police rights. The tr aty conteins
safeguarding provicions te the frect that Japan nd Japanese sub-
jects mey establish shrines in "anchukuo" under Jopanese laws
nd crdinances nd th't the educationel administr tion to be exer-
cised by the "Manchukuo" Govurnment in respect of Japanuse subjects
sholl be governed by on aereement to bu runched betv cen the Jepan-
se Ambassador and the "ianchukuo" Prime Minister.*
On
Embassy's desprtch No. 2661, Novemter 10, 1937.

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.93)
On the occesion of the signine of this treaty the Prime Minister
of "Manchukuo" issued ? statement in which he seid that the "Manchukus
Government had decided to abolish the extroterritorial rights still
enjoyed by foreign nationels cther than Jap nese in "Manchukuo".*
Prenier Chong China-hui of rchukuo" paid a visit to Japan,
arriving in this courtry on November 10, for the purpose of express-
ing thanks to the Japanese Government ror the conclusion of the
Japan-"Manchukuo" treaty for the abolition of Japancse extraterri-
toriality in "Manchukuo" and lso of congratulsting Japan on its
victorios in the Sino-Japanese çonflict. On November 1l Premier
Chang Ching-hui was received in audience by the Emperor and sub-
sequently was the guest of honor at e luncheon given by the Emperor.
(2) Acquisition by the Ayukawa Comp ny of the South
Manchuris R ilwoy Company's commerci-l end industrial
interests.
It wes report od ty th- press nd subsequently confirmed to a
mombor of the Enbasy's st ff by  rli ble source thet the Nippen
Soneyo Kobushiki Y isho (Japan Induntrinl Cem ny), a lorge comaany
contrclled by Hr. Gisuke Ayukaw, w ll-knowi. Jupanese fin neier,
hod in a recont d. 1 cequired frem the South ia nchurin Roilway Com-
pony all its conmorci 1 cnd inauctrial int r sis  th r th n r ilw ys,
ond tr t a corpor tion,  if owned by th: "ianchukuo" Gov rnment and
 if owned by the Japonese comp ny, would be set up vith its hund
office at Hsinkins, crpit.lizd et y4t0,000,0o0.**
The newsparers
toted that Mr. Ayuk-we himself would visit the United Status, possibi
in Decumbur, to attr ct Americ n capital nd technique to Manchuria
and that efforts woild be made to obtcin t1, ooo, ooo,ooo for the new
corporetion from Anuricen invstore.*
(3)
Embassy s telegram No. 553, November 19, 1937.
**
Embassy's teleer m No. 51e, Novomber 4, 1937.
* ★*
Embassy's duspatcl No. 2679. Novemb ur 29, 1927.

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.94)
(3) Plan to establish a large airplane manufacturing company
in "Manchukuo".
There Were reports that prenarations were being made for the
establishment of e F 100,000,000 corporation in Hsinkinc, under
the joint investmen (f Japan, "Malchukuey. e Gennany. for the
manufacture of aircraft and internal ccmbustion engiues.
(f) Spein.
As eearly as tne middle of the month the Japenese press report-
ed that in line with the desire of the Japanese Government to imple-
ment the Japanese-German-Italian anti-coamunist ract, considera-
tion was being given to recognition by Japan of the Franco régime
in Spain.* On November 30 it was reported by the newspapers that
such recognition v uld be officially arnounced on December 1.**
(g) France.
The French Anbassador made formal representations to the
Mi ister for Forei n Affairs on November St ur ins that the in-
tecrity of the c inere curtoms adminictration in Chan hai be pre-
ervea.***
(n November 29 the French Ambaccalor made additional
ropresent tions to ir. lHircta on the same question, delivering to
in a sirned fornal rote.****
(h) The Nine Powor T reaty Conference at Brussels.
Junanese put lic opi.lion as reflected in newspaper editorials
790.9.
was strongly hostile toward the Nine Power Treaty Conference, which
was convened in Bruasels en November e. The press placed emphasis
on the Japanese views that Japan's actions in China constituted
onsures of self-def onse and were cutside the purview of the Nine
Power Treaty; that the  ecent Conf rence had arisen out of a
resolution
Enbassy's telearem Nc. 40. Novembor 13, 1937.
**
Embassy's telesrom . po, :ovenper 30. 1037.
***
Embassy's telegrar No. 5o7, Novamter Pe, 1937.
****
Embassy's telceram No. 576, Nevomber 28, 1937.

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.94)
resolution of the League of Nati ns, with which body it was Japan's
firm policy to have no political cooperation; and that there was no
likelihood of any just solution resulting from prticipation by
Japan in the deliberations of thc Conference.*
The second irvitetion to participate in the Brussels Conference
was rejected by the Japanese Government on November 12, principally
on the ground that, in th: view of the Japenese Government, Japan's
actions in China were measures of solf-defense and hence lay out-
side the scope of the Nine Power Treaty.**
Aftur the adjournment
of the Conference on November 24, the Japanese press interpreted
the whole affair as a complute failure on the part of the Powers to
intervene in the Sino-Japancse conflict to the dutriment of Japan.
A patronizing attitude toward the Conference and the Lcague of
Natinns wes noticeabl in Japanose newsp pur cditorials.
Premier Konoye stated in his newspaper intorview of November 26
that it had long been evident thot the Nine Pow r Treaty did not
m. et cctunl conditions in the Fr Eict and that it was to be re-
gretted that Jopon hod not et some time in th. p' st propos-d some
suit ble revision of the treaty. He dded th t, lthough the
Brussels Conference had djourned without rormul: ting any plan,
J pon might go so f r es to withdrew from the Tr  ty.***
Mumburs
of th: House of Rupresentotives passed a rusolution on Nov mbir 16
urging tht Japan imm diat ly r nounce th: Nin: Fowor Truety and
on the followine dry th  Neirink i, well-known ch uvinist org ni-
tion, lso d mrnded renunci ticn of the Tr  tj.
(i) Si:m.
The J-penese Forcign Office nnouncud th-t : new provisionol
anty of commerce nd navieation butween Jepen ond siem hod been
initicled
Eub soy's teleeram No. Sea. Nov ab   1o.
Emb ssy's telugrm No. 535, h, 
★ **
Embassy's tul ugram No. 571, Nov mt . 27', 11.

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.95)
,ard tT it wes
expected th't the agrcement would be form lly siened by the two
Governments shortly.
(j) Firland.
IHE JAPAN TIMES of Novomber 13 attributed the following state-
ment to General Kurt Wrllensius, former Chief of the General Staff
D
of the Finnish Army, who arrived in Jepan on November 13: "Finland
1m
sympathizes with the Jap ncse netion and sincerely believes thet
Japen will win a sweeping victory which eventually will bring last-
ing peace end security to the Far East. The Jopenese-Germen-Italian
1NO
anti-Comintern Pcct is wolcomed by Finlond, and I believe it only
a motter of time until my country joirs h nas with the three great
Povers, who are determined to prevent the evil influence of com-
munism from sweeping over tre world."
III. INTERNAL FOLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(n) Army and Navy.
Imperiel He dquartei s, n orgn to coordincte milit ry and
nov 1 operrtions, wrs ust-blished by Laperir1 Crtinance on Novem-
ber 20.* A stetument wrs issued that day by Imp riul Hoadquarters
to the followine ffect: (r) Imperinl Hondqu rters is an instru-
ment by which the nperor will exercise supreme comm nd over the
Army and Novy. Its ostoblishmont ffects no chonge in the division
tween the funetions  nd resronsibilities hitherto assigned res-
poctively to the Hish Comm-nd end to the Government, nd rumors to
she effect that these two gencies will be combired are without
co ndation; (b) the duti is of Imperi-l h  dqurrturs aro to advise
t Emp rer on the ex rcise of sunreme cormond, to formul te high
t cic l plane, nd to ssure coorainotior b to en the Army  na
t . nd (c) n s or Crir at o be assigned to
Impericl
Embassy's telegr ms No. 533, November 12, nd No. 561, November 23
1937.

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.96)
Imperiel Headquarte's when cccasion rises.
(b) Colonies:
Apronos of rumors that J:pan contemplated surrendering its
D
mondrted Soutn Sea Islands to Germany, the Vice Minister for Over-
seas Affairs declared on November 27 thot, as hnd been repeatealy
M
stated by the Japenese Governnent since its withdrawal from the
League of Nations, mnintenence of Japen's mandate over the South
Sea Islands which formerly belonged to Germany was the established
policy of Jepan end thot hence the rumors in question were entire-
w
ly groundless.
It was reported by THE JAPAN TIMES of November 18 that a
reguler nir service linking Japen Proper with its mandcted South
Son Islands would be inaugurated in the middle of December.
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNNENT FINANCE.
494.51
In reiteration of statements made in Octch I, Mr. Kays, the
Finance Minister, and Mr. Yuki, Governor of the Bank of Jepen, ex-
pressed optimism over Japen's international fintncial position.
However, the JAFAN TIMES of November 5 reporte! thet the Finance
Minister had stated that although the Governm t would not attempt
to moke any basic adjustmont of the existing tcxution system it
would hnve to effect  further increase in tax rctes.
On November 30 the Cebinet formelly &pproved for submission
to the Diet in the sessions scheduled to convune in December the
i art budget for tho fiscal year l9se-c9, amounting to
Y 2,e68,2s9,000. This amcunt does not include estimates for the
continuation of military opc ntions in Orina, vhich are yet to be
drafted.

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.96)
ere ter ny Yan oa,xoc,vou
thon the budget of Yen 2,813, 037, 000 for the fisca1 year 1937-38
as adopted by the Diet in March, l937, before the addition of sup-
plementary military approprictions which brought the current bud-
get un to ¥ 5,400:000,000.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC /ND INANCIAL CONLITIONS.
(a) Foreign Trede.
Exports from Japon for the month of November amolnted to
Yan 252,982,000 while imports into Japon amounted to Yen 210,031.000
es compared with exports for October of ¥297,299,000 and imports
of ¥ 244,406,000. This represented a favorable balance of trade
of ¥ 42,951,000 as compared with & favorablo balance for October
of ￥ 52,893,000.*
Restrictions on the exportation of the following articles
were promulg ted in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE on November 6, to be ef-
fective immediately: bristlus, entimony and tungsten ores, articles
containing antimony, utomobiles and utomobile narts.
(b) Finenciel Trunds.
The stock morket shoved a considorabl improvement over the
month of October and shere prices recovereo ic somo extent, stimu-
leted by such favor-ble fnctors as roport i vistories in China, the
rdheronce of Itoly to the Jepenuso-German anti-Comintern Pact, and
the lack of any indicrtion trat the duliber tions of the Nine Power
Treaty Conference in Brussels would adversejy offect Japen. The
Tokyo money market was easy. At the ond of the month the note issue
of the Bank of Jepan rueched the highust record for the year, owing
tc current economic expansion. The average yen rrte wcs $0.290875
s compared with 0.28875 for October.**
Deta furnishec by Commurcia: Attiché.
**
Iriormetion furnished by Commerciri Actache.

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.91)
On November 19 the Tomporery Por Iruust Comnissien ppreved
for submission at the Lucumber session of the Dict the Governmert's
bill pioviding for St't .dministretion of the leetricel power
industry. It is uiderstocd thet electric 1 inductry companies were
strongly opposed to t: Government's plon
According to the Jop n, se press, the Ministry of Comacrce anu
Industry decided to present t the hext Diet session a bill pro-
viding for full St te control of the conl irdustry.
The NICHI NICHI of Novembor 12 stated that s  result of the
discovery by the South Manchurin Railway Compony of e large iron
mine in eastern Manchukuo nd of the Lungyen iror. mine in South
Chahar,and lso or Japn's control over North Chinn, Japan would
soon be completely sulf-sufficient in iron.
VII. ACTIVITIES CF AMERICAN COMERCIAL INTLRESTS.
According to the JAPAN ALVsRTIsER of Hovt r So, negotiatior.
by a group of Japanese businessmen for the pur   the Ford
Motor Company of Japan Ltd. failed owing to   iferencc te-
tween the terns of purchase proposed by the
t
required by the Ford Compary.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FCREIGN COMMERCIAL INT
Nothing to report.
LABCR.
The Shakai Taishuto, or he l a Party. continued to
re strone support to the coy rrmen ci
o pree cortiiet
 China. In aaditier, the party rrrce
ave turred pere to
iht in itsroicics.
.€

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.84)
The J.. C... iC..C:.
pression of their patrioti   rs i erralotor
Japan, Itd., the Csake Iron crkn,    l i Coel inine Conrany.
the Csata City :us Con cay,  l.c t.e tra t Tottery Cement Company mau
fored e new party  li  t. e iay  ..o ressive ity unc hal ecopu-
ed the followir sloens roncv ten or the  tiol aumni trative
or. ens, fuitherance o  ro cy on the continent of sic, as
solute security of the n t e. 1 liv irhooc, nt redic I renovation
of the educational syst.
It ves re orted th t es e resuit of incieasin activity in the
leavy incu tries csused by t:e siuo-irpenese conflict, ti ere hec
been a marked increase in t'e nan er ci orkmen e ployed by industrie.
firns.
C
The Cabin t's ui ota c. t tistice isstud a report curin the
onti. to the effect t. t t  ul t.cr of  io er, a or
teeer
Cctober 1, lo7, sie ec a. ciease or 2:,.v
or Cctcb I 1, lo..

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.95)
DUA.G NOVBER, 1937.
No.
Date
Subjcut
2648
Nov. 1
Hessage fion the Ambassador.
2649
Nov. 1
Final examination of Mr. arner.
2650
Nov. 5
Political Handbook of the orld.
?651
Nov. 9
Rental allowance for ir. Bruner.
2652
Nov. 6
Diplomatic visa reort.
2653
Nov. 9
Nrcotics seizure at Los Anteles.
?654
Nov. 9
Honthly Politicel Report for October.
2655
Nov. 9
Narcotic seizure FSILT CCCLIDGE.
656
Nov. 9
Visit to U.3. of Mr. Tani uchi re narcotics.
2657
Nov. 10
Imperiel Head uarters.
2658
Nov. 10
atchclock dials.
2659
Nov. 10
Visit to U.S. of kr. Tani uchi re narcotics.
7660
Nov. 13
Gernany-Itcly-Janan.
2601
1.ov. 10
Extraterritoriality in s..chukuo.
2062
Nov. 1?
7rd Liet meeting in Dece her.
2663
Nov. 11
Japan and the Vatican.
664
Nov. 1?
Forein xchan e Contiol in Hanohuria.
?665
Nov. 13
Sino-Jcp  nese Conflict - Roccamendations.
2666
Nov. 26
Sino-Japonese Relations.
7067
Fov. 19
Accounts, Letters Ro tory.
?6
Nov. 19
Diplonatic Visa Report.
7669
Nov. 2
Jepanese Intentions ith "espect to the
Philippine Islands.
2070
Nov. 18
Sino-Jep:rese Conilict.
671
Nov. 26
Recommendations Made and Steps Taken by the
American mbessy rnć teps Tken by the British
mbassy in Tokyo ith  espect to the Sino-
Jepr nose Conflict.
679
Nov. 20
Divion tic rd Soction 3 (1) Vise Report.
2678
Nov. 27
Sheleva Ja Jrpan.
Nov. £9
Chinese Customs arinistration.

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.95)
NO.
Date
2675
Nov. 24
Salmen islhing by Japanese in laskan aters.
2676
Nov. 27
Proposed Fublicctio. by Vice Consul Cory.
377
Nov. 29
Japut Yoartcok to. Leperoment Library.
2676
Nov. 29
Imperiel neodauarters.
2679
Nov. 29
Americ n Cipitcl for anchuria.
26€0
Nov. 29
Famphlet Lisurituted ith the Compliments of
the Fre ier.
2661
Nov. 30
An lo-Japanese Relations.

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGR HS SLT O  ARTIT
LUTL. Y0V-MER, 19:7.
1O.
Lete
ub ect
506
Nov. 1, 5 p..
Governnent offices closed on Jepanese holije
507
Nov. 1, 6 p..
u.crs of Jonan's : illin ness to discuss
peace terns vith meric n and British repre
senttives.
508
Iov. 1, 7 F...
Anti-British propecenda in Japan.
509
Tov. 2, 2 ..
Impel ial Head.uarters.
510
Nov. , 3 p..
Increased Stien th of Kw ntun amy.
511
Tov. ?, 5 p..
Eder's speech in House of Comnons.
512
Nov. 2, 7 ..
Recei t by lassy Peiping of S-ptember-
November cipher.
513
ov. 2, 6 p.m.
ntry o1 merciants into non ke. enc Y. ntzepc.
areas.
514
ov. , 10 p..
Japenese-Itclian anti-comunism pact.
515
ov. , 11 r.n.
ress coment on iussels Conierence.
516
Nov. 3, 10 a..
Report of jor Cres ell
517
Nov. 4, 10 a.m.
Japanese apolo y for killin: of British
solciers in . nchui.
518
i ov. 4, 1? noon
Acquisition by . ippon nr ye Kabushiki
Keisha of South Manchui is Rcil.ay Cocny.
519
Nov. 4, 5 ..
Requisition for Lisbursint Officer.
50
Nov. 5, noor.
Jaranese press opinions.
5~1
Yov. 5,  p...
Imp er i1 mead uartels.
577
1.ov. 5, 6 n.m.
Japr.es-It lian anti-co.aunist pact.
5.
Tov. 6, 5 n...
ree entry for Chsit..'s :iit:.
524
i ov. 6, 6 ....
Imperial headquarters.
525
Nov. 6, 7 p.….
eceipt of ciphers.
 ov. 6, p.i.
ecei t of ci l.ers.
Yov. 8, noon
Second invit: tion to Japen to attend
Ni.e o er Conterence.
Fov. 8, 5 P.
de anes-To i  aa i-cerunist pau

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.94)
NO.
Date
ubject
5?9
Nov. 9, noon
aranese-Italian anti-Conintern Pact.
530
Yov. 10, 11 a.m. Visits of U...  . and U... P
531
Tov. 1l, 1 .. Cold s!ipme..ts by Jap"lese Government.
532
Nov. 11, 7 p.n.
Locclization of hostilities in and around
Shen ai.
533
Nov. 1?, noon
Imper it1  c u rters.
534
Nov. 1i, 1 r.m. meric n Church Mission.
535
Lov. 1, 7 p. .. iius els Conierence.
536
Yov. 1, ε r.m. Alas: Salmon estion.
537
Nov. 1, 9 p...
Methodist Mission et Sun ki-nr.
53€
Nov. 1o, 9 a.m.
Ade uecy oi clericel st. if in present
emergency.
539
Nov. l, 10 a.m. P.oposed bombi. o1 Soochov..
540
Nov. lu, 1l a.m. Proposed Jcp. nese reco rition of Franco
ré ime.
541
ov. 1t, 3 p.m.
FC.LI
II. 152.
542
Fov. 1e, 4 p.m.
Pan merican ir ays lanes.
543
Nov. 15, 7 p..
russels Corference.
544
Nov. 1o, 1 F.m.
Brussels Conference.
545
Nov. 17, 3 p.m.
eported Jape.ese peace teras.
546
Nov. 17, 4 p.n.
3russels Conference.
547
ov. 17, 5.
Reported Jroanese intentiin to occuny
Shon h Settlement.
54
Nov. 1., 10 a.. Conversation ith Japanese Minister for
Forein ificiis.
54
Nov. 1ε, 6 p.m.
Anclysis of Jepanese illin ness to eccept
offer of :elo- merican ood offices in
settlemert of conflict.
550
Nov. 1ε, 7 p.π.
Proposed Japanese recognition of Franco
ré ine.
351
Nov. 1e, 11 p.. British protest against Japanese surrender
of extraterritoriel ri nts in Menchukuo.
Nov. 19, 1 p...
Amer icr. Church mission, .usih.
:)2
Nov. 19, 5 n..
Iitish ibessacor's roposed piotest e irs
abrogacion by a.c. ukuo of extraterritorinl
rights of other . sie.s.

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.97)
No.
Date
Subject
554
Nov. 19, 9 p.m.
Possible Anglo-American offer of good
offices in settlement of present conflict.
555
Nov. 20, 9 a.m.
Arrival of Bruner.
556
Nov. 20, 3 p.m.
Press report of British Ambassador's call
on Vice Minister.
567
Nov. 20, 5 p.m.
FOREIGN RELATIONS 1922.
558
Nov. 20,6 p.m.
International Settlement Shanghai.
559
Nov. 21, 3 p.m.
From Jacobs to Department.
560
Nov. 22, 5 p.m.
Memorandum of Department's supplemental
comment and instructicns to be left with
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
561
Nov. 23, 3 p.m.
Imperial Headquarters.
562
Nov. 23, 4 p.m.
An:lo-American action in the interest of
peace.
563
Nov. 24, 5 p.m.
Salmon fisheries.
564
Nov. 24, 6 p.m.
Conversation with Minister for Foreign Af-
fairs re taking of Nanking.
565
Nov. 25, 5 p.m.
Declaration of war by Japan.
566
Nov. 26, 4 p.m.
FCRLIGN AELATICNS 1922
567
Nov. 26, 6 p.m.
Chinese customs administration.
568
Nov. 27, 11 a.m.
Chi:ese customs administration.
569
Nov. 27, noon.
Decleration or war by Japan.
370
Nov. 27, 1 f.m.
American Church Mission.
571
Nov. 27, 2 p.m.
Frees reports of interview by American
correspondents vti Japerese Minister for
Forein Affairs.
572
Nov. 27, 3 p.m.
FOREIGN RELATICNS 1922.
573
Nov. 27, 5 p.m.
Chinese customs aduiristration.
こ74
Nov. 27, 6 p.m.
Shanghai customs
375
Nov. 27, 5 F.m.
Chi: ese customs administration.
6
Nov. 2E, 4 p.m.
Chi..cse customs administration.
5.7
Nov. 28, 11 p.m.
Snensha custoe.
7
Nov. 29, 7 ..
Pe orfrei  assistance to c

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.97)
No.
Date
Subjee
579
Nov, 29,mid- Italian recogritlon of "Manchukuo".
night
580
Nov. 30, 5 p.m. Prorah e eclaration of war by Japan.
381
Nov. 30, 6 p.m.
Aleske Visneries.
582
Nov. 30, 7 p.m.
Interlaccral Settlement Shanghai
583
Nov. 30, 8 p.m.
Japenese recognition of Franco régime.

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FORDIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2735.
Tokyo, January 18, 1938.
SUBJECT:
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE
MONTH OF DECE!BER 1937.
Coby7E
For
ATV
2
In confidance to:
ON1
AFFHHS
MID
fl
OEPAPTENT
8940077
9g38 B87
nite
OFFICE OF THE A
X
FE38
894.00 P.R./1
DEPAT
The Honorable
The Secretary of Stete,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
1/
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith
the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for
the month of December, 1937.
Respectfully youra,
Joseph C. Grew.
PEB
Ehclosure:
3251938
c0p3
Embassy, Peiping
Emaassy, Moscow
Embassy, Nanking
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Osaka
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Dairen
In quintuplicate to the Department.
800
4
GDASO

=== Page 558 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 135
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF DECEBER, 1937.

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXAND
SUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a) Sinking of the U.S.S. Gunboet PANAY
by Japanese Airplanes..
.1,2,3,4,5
(b) Representations mede by the Embassy
in connection with the Sino-Japanese
Conflict....
.5,6,7,8,9,10
(c) Salmon Fishing in Alaskan Waters.......
..10,11
(a) American Extraterritorial Rights
in Manchuria....
..11,12
II. RELATIONS NITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.....
..12,13,14,15,
16,17
(1) Capture of Nanking and other Cities
in the Shangai-Nanking Area...
12,13
(2) Japanese Military Operations in Shantung
Province..
13
(3) Activities of the Japanese Air Forces.14
(4) Official Japanese Statements..........14,16
(5) Autonomous Régimes in China
Sponscred by the Japanese.............15,16
(6) Japanese Economic Plans in China......16,17
(b) Great Britain.....
.18,19,20,21
22,23
(1) Japanese Attacks on  ritish Naval
Vessels LALYFIRD and BEE.
.18,19,20
(2) Ropresentati ne Maue by the British
Governmont in Tekye in Connection
with the Sine-Japanese Confi:ct.......21,22
(3) Anti-Eritish Feelinc in Japan.......
(c) Soviet Russia.....
.23,24
(d) Italy......
.25
(e) Germany.....
.25
(f) Spain......
.26,27
(c) "Manchukuo".
.27,28

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
(h) France.....
.28,29
(i) (1) Representations Made by the
French Embassy in Connection with
the Siro-Japarese Conrlict.
28
(2) French Extraterritorial Rights
in Manchuria.
28,29
(i) Australia....
29
(j) The Vatican....
29
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITICHS....
.29
(a) The Cabinet..
.29
(b) The Navy.....
.30
(c) Political Parties....
.30
(d) The Diet....
.31
IV. COURSE CF LEGIOLATION.
Nothing to ruport.
V.
GOVERNNLLT FLLANGE.
.32
VI. GENERAL ECCNCLIC AND FINANCIAL CCNLITIONS...32,33
(a) Foreign Trade.....
.32,3
(b) Financial Trends....
.33
VII. ACTIVITIS F AMRIC C.RCTAL HTERESTS.33,34
VIII.ACTIVITIES CF FCREIGH CCHMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
.34
X.
MICCELLANECUS
Nothing to report.

=== Page 561 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Sinking of the U.S.S. Gunboat PANAY by Japanese
Airplanes.
On December 1 the Embassy brought to the attention of
the Japanese Foreign Office a report received from the
Embassy at Nanking that the U.S.S. PANAY was at Nanking
and requested that the appropriate Japanese military and
naval authorities be promptly notified of this report.
a
On the basis of telegrams received fron. the Embassies
in Nanking and Hankow with regard to the jeopardizing by
こ94.
the Japanese military forces of the U.S.S. Gunboat PANAY
and of American refugees on Standard Oil Company ships, the
Ambassador called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs on
the morning of December 13 and requested him to take furth-
er steps to restrain Japanese military forces from continuing
the sericus risks to American lives and property involved
in the dropping of shells in the vicinity of these ships.*
Later in the day it became known that the U.S.S.
PAvAY and two Standard Oil Company ships had been sunk by
Japanese naval airplanes above Nanking on the Yangtze River
on the afternoon o1 December 12. Mr. Hirota called per-
sonally on Mr. Grew at the Chancery on the afternoon of
December 13 and expressed the profound apologies of the
Japanese Government for the sinking of the PANAY.
A high official of the Foreign Office called on the
Ambassador on the afternoon of Decenber 14 and delivered
a note from the Ministor for Foreicn Affairs which stated
that
* Embassy's despatch No. 2710, Decemher 23, 1937.

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
that the sinking of the PANAY had been due to a mistake aris-
ing from low visibility; that the Japanese Government re-
gretted the incident most profoundly, desired to make sincere
apologies, would make indemnification and would appropriate-
ly deal with those responitl: ror the incident; and that the
Japanese Government had already issued strict orders to the
authorities on the spot with a view to preventing a recurrence
of a similar incident.
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, the Ambassa-
dor called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the evening
of December 14 and read and delivered to him a signed note
of protest against the incident. The note outlined the cir-
cumstances ettendant upon the sinking of the PANAY; referred
to previous acts of Japanese armed forces in China which had
violated the riehts of the United States and had seriously
endangered the lives of American nationals;
and stated that
the American Government requested and expected of the Jap-
anese Government a formally recorded expression of regret,
an undertaking to make complete and comprehensive indemni-
fications, and an assurance that definite end specific steps
had been teken which would ensure that hereafter American
naticnals, interests, and properties in China would not be
subject to attack by Japanese armed forces or unlawful inter-
ference by any Japanese authorities or forces whatsoever.*
At first the authorities of the Japanese Foreign, Navy,
and Wer Offices denied reports that after the bombing of
the PANAY the gunboat and its survivors had been machine
gunned by Jepanese surface craft.
Acting under the Depart
ment's instructions, the Ambassador called on the Minister
for
Department's telosre c. 342, Lecember 1, 1937, and
Embassy's teiugran 1. .1, December 14, 1937.

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
for Foreign Affairs on December 17 and left with him an aide.
mámoire stating that according to reports received by the
American Government, after the bombing of the PAyAY the Amer:-
can gunboat and the survivors on board had heen machine
gunned both by Jepanese airplanos and by Japanese Army motor
boats. Mr. Grew seid to Mr. Hirote thnt these reports
disproved the allegation that a mistake had been made in
bombing the PANAY. On December 20 the Foreign Office spokes-
man admitted that, according to new information just received,
a Japanese Army boat hed fired on the PAnaY. However, the
Foreign Office spokesman added that it was inconceivable that
the Army boat had deliberately fired on the PANbY.
Three
days later the Foreign Office spokesmen announced that ac-
cording to a report of the Japanese Army authorities, no
evidence had been found that the U.S.S. PANAY had been in-
tentionally shot at by Japanese soldiers.
On December 23 a meeting was held at the Embassy at
which were present the Vice Minister of the Nevy and several
Japanese Army, Navy, and Foreien Office cfficials and the
Ambassador, the Counselor of the Embassy, and the Embassy's
Naval nd Military Attachés.
In an effort to prove the con-
tention that the bombing and subsequent macnine gunning of
the American gunboet and other Ameri can ships and survivors
was unintentional, the Japanese officers rusunted evidence
based on detailed renorts of the Japanese nevel and military
officers sent to Nanking to investigate the circumstances
attendant upon the sinking of the PANhY. The Ambassador
said that while the evidence in his possession tallied in
many respects with the Japanese reports it did not tally in
all respects. In addition. the Ambassador lnid
StreSs Cr.
th:

=== Page 564 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
the serious results which coull follow a repetition of the
PANAY incident or the occurrencs of any incident enalogous
to it.*
On the evening of December 24 Mr. Hirota handed to Mr.
Grew the Japanese Government's roply to the Embassy's notc
of protest deted Decomber 14. The substence of the reply
wes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs hed stated in
his note of December 14 thet the Japanese Government re-
gretted the occurrence most profoundly, desired to present
sincere apologies, would make indemnificetion for all the
losses and would deal appropriately with those responsible
for the incident; that the Japanese Navy had issued without
delay strict orders with a view to preventing a recurrence
of a "similar mistake, even at the sacrifice of a strategic
edvantage in attacking the Chinese troops"; and that rigid
orders had been issued to the Japanese military, neval, and
civil authorities in China to pay "greater attention than
hitherto" to observance of the instructions that had been
repeatedly given against infringement of, or unwarranted
interference with, the rights and interests of the United
Stetes, and other third Powers. The Japanese note tated
further that although the incident had been due to a mistake,
the Commander of the Flying Force concerned hnd been imme-
diately removed from his post and that the staff members of
the Fl et end all others responsible had been duly dealt
with according to law.**
In eccordance with the Department's instructions, on
December 26 the Ambassador delivered to the Minister for
Foreign Affairs a note stating that the American Government
cbserved with satisfaction the pramptness with which the
Japen
Embassy's despatch Nc.  9, J-nuar: e, '938.
Embassy's despatch I. 0, Jnury e, 1933.

=== Page 565 === (confidence 0.96)
Jopeneso Government in its note of Lecumter l4 hed eanitted
responsibility, expressed rugret, and cffered m nds, and
that the Government of the United States regarded the Japeu-
eso Government's account of cction token, es set forth in
tho Jepanese Government's not. of Lecember 4, es responuive
to the request made by the United tates Government in its
note of December 14. The .mericrn note added that with re-
gard to the facts of the origins, ccuses, and circumstances
of the incident, the Japanese Government had indicated in its
note of December 24 the conciusion at which it had arrived
as a result of its investi ation, but that with regard to
these same matters the merican Govcrnment relier on the
report of findings of the Court of Inquiry of the United States
N:vy, n copy of which had been comaunicated officially to the
Japenese Government.*
Nevs of the P.N..Y disaster was received both unofficially
and cfficially in Japan with widespread and genuine expressions
of regret. Numbers of indivicuals and delegations called at
the Embassy to express regret and sympathy and to offer
monetary donations tc imericans invclved in the sinking of
the P.NnY. The Ministry for Foreign .ffairs, the Navy Min-
istry, and all the leading newspapers expressed satisfaction
over the settlement cf the P.NiY incident.**
(b) Representations made by the Embassy in Connection
with the Sino-Japanese Conflict.
In addition to the representatiors on the PiNiY affair,
the Embassy made numerous other representations during the
month under review which have been fully reported to the
Department by telegraph and by despatch.***
An outline of
Department's toicgcan C/6. Lecember 25, and Eabassy's
te_ogram C83, D0cemlc1 20, 1937.
*
Embassy's d esputch N. 2?20, January 6, 1938.
***
Eubassy's despatches No. 2690, December 10, No. 27): T.
cember 23, 1937, and No. 2721, January 6, 1938.

=== Page 566 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
the more important representations is given below.
On December 1 the Embassy brought to the attention of
the Japanese Foreign Office a report received from the Embassy
at Nanking that about 40 American citizens remained at Nanking.
and requested that the appropriate Japanese military and nava!
authorities be promptly notified.
In accordance with the Department's instructions, on
December 5 the Embassy made renewed representations to the
Foreign Office on the subject of the Shanghai customs, stat-
ing that in view of the American Government's very real inter-
est in the matter and of its definite belief that that inter-
est entitled the merican Government to be consulted in re-
gard to any arrangement under contemplation and as to whether
such arrangement constituted adequate safeguarding of the in-
terests of the United States, it would be very much appreciaied
if the Japanese Gcvernmert would be so good as to ensure that
no arrangements would be reached with regard to the customs
administration without prior consultation with the American
Consul General at Shanghai. Pursuant to the Department's
instructions, on December 14 the Embassy aeain made represen-
tations to the Foreien Office on the Shan hai customs issue.*
Acting under the Lepartnent's instructions, the Ambassa-
dor addressed to the Minister for Forei,n Affairs a note dated
December 23 reiterating the continued and great concern en-
tertained by the American Government in the preservation of
the administrative i.tegrity of the custo:s at Shanghai and
in the safeguerding of the customs revenues, and stating
that the Americon Government would :elcome certain specified
assurances from the Japanese Government with reeard to the
customs.
Telegrem to the Department from the Consulate General at
Shanhai No. 1122, Lecember 9, Department's telegram No. 33c.
December 12 and mbassy's telegram No. 632, December 14,
1937.

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
customs.* In accordance with further instructions received
fro.. the Department, the Ambassador called on the Vice Lin-
ister for F reign Affairs on Lecember 26, renewed in detail
and with emphasis the previous representatiommade to the
Minister ior Foreign Affairs o.. the customs issue, and de-
livered a siened note which urged pon the Japalese Govern-
ment the importance of neitner takine action nor countenancing
action by the Japanese military or other authorities which
would disrupt the C.inese customs service or impair the auth-
ority of the present customs administration. 'ithout instruc-
tions from the Department, on this occasion the Abassador
said to the Vice Minister that in his own opinion the integrity
of the Chinese customs certeinly represer.ted one of the Ameri-
can interests envisaged in the fi al paragraph of the mbassy's
note of December 14 on the PilAY i..cident, that this interest
should not be subject to unlaful interference by any Japanese
authorities or forces whatsoever, ard that in the light of
the A erican Government's acceptance of the Japanese Govern
ment's note of Lecember 24 as 'responsive" to the A erican
Government's desire, it vould be deplorable if interference
With that specific American interest shculd occur. Mr. Hori-
nouchi said that the matter was bein carefully studied and
he reiterated the previous general assurances of r. Hirota
that American interests vould be iven full consideration.**
In reply to its representetions of November 19 concern-
ing the bombing by Japare se airplanes on November 12 of the
American Church Mission at Vusih, the Embassy received from
the
Department's tele rams No. 339, Decenber 12, and No. 366
December 21, 1937, and mbassy's telegram No. 675, Decem-
ber 3, 1937.
**
Departent's telegram No. 375, Lecerber 5, and Embassy's
telegram No. 695, Lecember 29, 1937.

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
the Foreien Office on Lecember 10 a note dated December 6
which stated that the incident was a result of a mistake
arising from low visibility and that the Japanese Govern-
ment expressed regret, v.ould do all in its power to prevent
the recurrence of such incident s, and was prepared to give
proper consideration with regard to the losses and damage
inflicted on the American property in question.*
ActinE under the Department's instructions, on Decem-
ber 1l the Embassy approached the Foreiin Office, referred
to previous representations made in connection with the
march of Japanese troops throuh the International Settlement
at Shanghai, and expressed the confident hope that certain
statements made by the Japsnese Consul ereral in Shanghai
and the attitude of the Japanese authorities there would put
an end to apprehensiors regarding future occurrences of a na-
ture likely to lead to cornsequerces disturbing the preserva-
tion of order in the Interrational Settlement. The Foreign
Office's reply, received by the mbas:y on December 21,
stated that the Japanese Goverrment ad 'of course" no in-
tention which would impair the acninistration or the auth-
ority of the Municipal Council and that in the maintenance
of peace and order in the International Settlement it was the
constant policy of the Japanese G vernment to cooperate with
the Intern-tional Settlemert authorities.**
On Lecember 16 the mbassy heard by telegram from Hankow
that arrangements were being made for a special train to
convey forei ners, mostly women and chilaren, to Canton or
Hong Kong during the early part of the week of December 19-25.
The
Embassy's telegrams No. 55?, November 19, and No. 612,
December 10, 1937.
**
Telegram to the Department from the Consulate General at
Shanghai No. 1ll2, December 8, Department's teleeram No.
337, December 10, Ebassy's telegrams No. 616, December 11,
and No. 664, December 21, 1937.

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
The following day the Ambassador brought this plan to the
direct attention of the Minister for Foreign ffairs and
asked that definite steps be taken to ensure the safety of
the foreigners on board the train. Mr. Hirota promised that
such steps would be taken immediately.*
On Lecember 15 the mbassy left with the Foreign Office
a memorandum quoting a proposal from the American Ambassa-
dor in Hankow to the effect that the Japanese authorities give
assurances that the Japanese forces would attack neither a
certain specified area in Hankow in which Consulates and
Embassy staffs were located, nor the river front adjoining
this area in which were concentrated naval vessels of Ameri-
can, British, French, and Italian nationality, as well as
foreign merchant ships. The mbassy's memorandum requested
that the Foreign Office take appropriate action in support
of Mr. Johnson's proposal.**
In reply to the Ambassador's request for instructions,
by a telegram dated December 27 the Department instructed
him to inform the Japanese Government that while the Ameri-
can Government cla imed absolute freedom for its ships to move
and trade on the Yangtze River, the American Government looked
to the Japanese authorities to Eive prior warning in the event
of any area on the Yangtze River beccming, through steps taken
by the Japanese authorities, a danger area. These instruc-
tions were carried out by the Ambassador on December 28.***
In reply to the Embassy's protest of Cctober 8 against
the Japanese aerial bombing on September 24 cf the Ida Kahn
Women's
*
Telegram from the Embassy at Hankow, December 15, 4 p.m.,
and the Embassy's telegram No. 648, December 17, 1937.
**
Telegram from the Embassy at Hankow, No. 33, December 13,
Department's telegram No. 367, December 21 and Embassy's
telegram No. 672, December 23, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegrams No. 682, December 26, and No. 690,
December 28, and Department's telegram No. 380, Decem-
ber 27, 1937.

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
Women's and Children's Hospital belonging to the Women's
Foreign Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal Mission
at Nanchang, the Embassy received a communication from the
Foreign Office on December 28 to the effect that the bom ing
was a mistake, that the Japanese Government expressed sincere
regret, and that rigid instructions had been issued with a
view to preventing the recurrence of such incidents.*
On the basis of information received through Shanghai
from the Embassy at Hankow, the Embassy addressed a memoran-
 dum to the Foreign Office on December 29 requesting that the
appropriate Japanese authorities take the necessary steps
to safeguard the refugees in and properties of the Southern
Presbyterian Mission at Hsuchow and stating that the auth-
orities of the Missicn had suggested that the buildings of
the Mission be distinguished by white flags with a blue cross
in the center. On December 30 the Foreign Office informed
the Embassy that the Japanese military and naval authorities
had agreed to respect such American property at Hsuchow as was
marked with "white flags with a blue cross in the center."
(c) Salmon Fishing in Alaskan Waters.
The Embassy received on December 22 the Foreign Office's
TIA
reply to its memorandum and aide-mémoire of November 24
which urged that the Japanese Government take early and ef-
fective action to prevent the taking by Japanese vessels of
salmon in Bristol Bay and other offshore salmon fishing areas
of Alaska.**
The Japanese note stated that the Japanese Gov-
ernment believed firmly in the justice of its contention that
so long as salmon fishing was carried on on the high seas,
such
Embassy's telegrams Nc. 457, October 8, No. 692, Decem-
ber 28, and Department's telegram No. 332, December 7,1937.
**
Department's telegrams No. 307, November 19, and No. 309,
November 20, 1937.

=== Page 571 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
such fishing could not warrantably be subjected to restric-
tion by another Power; that a three-year project was being
undertaken by means of a Japanese Government experimental
STRIAL
vessel to investigate the degree to which the resources of
the high seas were capable of being developed; that it was
believed that such official investigations could not proper-
ly be made the grounds for controversy; but that neverthe-
less in the light of the views of the American Government
and from the broad viewpoint of relations between Japan
and the United States the Japanese Government would for the
time being on its own initiative suspend the above-mentioned
investigations.*
(d) American Extraterritorial Rights in Manchuria.
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, the Ambass-
ador addressed a note to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on
December 1 referring to reports that on November 6 a treaty
had been signed by Japan and "Manchukuo" ending Japanese
extraterritorial rights in Manchuria, that on this account
there had been issued a manifesto in regard to the uxtraterri-
torial rights of foreigners other than Japanese in Manchuria,
and that the Harbin branch of the National City Bank of New
York had received a letter from the Lepartment of Economics
at Hsinking which stated that a recently promulgated law
concerning foreign juridical persons "naturally" applied to
all foreign firms and requested that preparation be made to
register and to appoint a representative in aecordance with
the law. Pointing out that the extraterritorial rights of
American
Embassy's telegram No. 669, December 22 and Embassy's
despatch No. 2717, December 23, 1937.

=== Page 572 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
American nationals in Manchuria were granted by treaty
between the United States and China and that the American
Government considered the law under reference as inappli-
cable to American nationals and firms, the Ambassador's
note stated that his Government was impelled to register
emphatic objection to any attempt by the authorities of
Manchuria to exercise jurisdiction over American nationals
and to make full reservation in regard to the treaty rights
of the United States and its citizens. The note concluded
with the statement that the Japanese Government was being
addressed on this matter in view of the relationship between
the Japanese Government and the authorities in Manchuria.*
II. RELATIONS WITH CTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.
(1) Capture of Nanking and Other Cities in the
Shanghai-Nanking Area.
The Japanese forces continued their rapid advance against
Nanking. After several days of fighting ardund the city, in
which the Chinese resistance was described as "stubborn" by
the Japanese news agency, Domei, Japanese troops took possess-
ion of the capital on December 14. Meanwhile, according to
an International News Service despatch from Nanking dated
December 7, General Chiang Kai-shek had on that day fled by
airplane from Nanking to Hankow, accompanied by his wife and
Mr. Donald, his adviser, eluding the Jupanese planes which
pursued him. The Japanese Embassy in Nenking was re-opened
on December 18 with the return from Shenghai of the Counselor,
Mr.
Department's telegram No. 319, November 28, and Embassy's
telegram No. 585, December 2, and Embassy's despatch
No. 2689, December 9, 1937.

=== Page 573 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
Mr. Shinrokuro Hidaka. According to Domei, a "Peace Mainte-
nance Commission" was inaugurated in Nanking on December 23
with a platform based on opposition to communism, severance
of relations with General Chiang Kai-shek's National Govern-
ment, and a policy of friendship toward Japan.
On December 2l Japanese forces operating on the north-
ern bank of the Yangtze River captured Chuhsien, on the
Tientsin-Pukow Railway. Three days later Japanese units
occupied the city of Hangchow, capital of Chekiang Province,
apparently without resistance on the part of the Chinese.
The Japanese took possession of Tienchang on December 26.
(2) Japanese Military Operations in Shantung
Province.
Having secured control of Shantung Province north of the
Yellow River, Japanese units proceeded south of the River and,
meeting with little Chinese opposition, on December 26 took
possession of Tsinan, capital of the Province and headquarters
of General Han Fu-chu's forces.
Following the destruction by Chinese of Japanese-owned
cotton mills in Tsingtao, on December 23 the Japanese military
hoadquarters in Tientsin issued a comnuniqué to the effect
that the Japarese forces were prepared to iflict thorough-
going chastisement on the Chinese for their breach of faith
and intended to demand appropriate compensation for Japanese
property destroyed. Vice Admiral Hasegawa, Commander-in-Chief
of the Japanese Fleet in China waters, made an announcement
on December 26 that Tsingtao would be included in the zone of
Japanese "naval interruption of maritime traffic established
on September 5.
(3)

=== Page 574 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
(3) Activities of the Japanese Air Forces.
Japanese Navy and Army airplanes conducted raids through-
out China during the month, bombing points in North, Central,
and South China, including Canton. Domei reported that in
the most outstanding long distance flight yet made by the
Japanese, naval planes had on Lecember 4 bombed the airdrome
at Lanchow, capital of Kansu Province, and that on December 30
Japanese naval planes had bombed and destroyed the airdrome
at Sianfu, Shansi Province. The navy section of the Imperial
Headquarters announced that durine December Japanese naval
planes had destroyed 123 enemy planes and that since the out-
break of the Sino-Japanese hostilities they had destroyed
from 525 to 575 Chinese planes. According to the announce-
ment, up to December 31
only 63 Japanese naval planes had been
1ost.
(4) Official Japanese Statements.
I a statement setting forth the views of the Japanese
Government on the situation created by the occupation of
Nankine, Premier Kenoye declared on December 14 that there
was no longer any substance behind the claim of the Nanking
Government to be the central régime of China; that the régime
was swiftly being reduced to rothing more than a war machine;
that if a new régime should arise, Japan would have no choice
but to consider concrete measures for co-existence and co-
prosperity with it; that no régime in China could succeed
excepting on & pro-Japanese foundation; that only through
the emergence of such a pro-Japanese China could the interests
of European Powers and of the United States in the Far East
be guaranteed; and that in order to prevent a recurrence of
such a tragedy as the present China incident, Japan must not
hesitate

=== Page 575 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
hesitate "to perform a major operation". Also apropos of
the capture of Nanking, both the War Minister and the military
section of the Imperial Headquarters announced that Japan
must make redoubled efforts for the achievement of its ob-
jecties. in China and thet the termination of hostilities
must be regerded as a matter for the remote future. In a
statement on December 17 regarding the formal entry of Jap-
anese troops into Nanking, Vice Admiral Havegawa, Commander
in-Chief of the Japanese Naval Forces in China waters, asserted
that the Japanese troops, not contented with the capture of
Nanking, were determined to continue the fight until the "aims
of the campaign" had been completely attained. None of the
officials mentioned gave any definite inuication of what
"the aims of the campaign" were.
(5) Autonomous Régimes in China Sponsored
by the Japanese.
Additional evidence came to light during the month under
review concerning the manner in which Japan evidently pro-
posed to establish the long desired control over parts of
China, while refraining ostensibly from infringing on China's
territorial integrity.
This evidence
consisted in the forma-
tion under Japanese pressure of several pro-Japanese régimes
in portions of China which had been subjugated by the invad-
ing forces of the Japanese. The inauguration of a "Peace
Maintenance Commission" in Nanking has been mentioned.
was reported that in Januery 1938 an autonomous régime would
be founded in Nanking. The so-called "Provisional Government
of China" was organized in Peiping on Decembef 14 with such
Chinese as the Japanese military were able to persuade to
become officials. It was stated that the principles of the
new

=== Page 576 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
new régime would be cooperation among Chine, Japan, and
"Manchukuo" for united defense against communism, opposition
to the Kuomintang, and Sino-Japanese economic collaboration.
According to Domei, the East Hopei Autonomous Government dis-
solved itself and joined with the Provisional Government at
Peiping in view of the similarity of the platforms of the
two bodies. On New Year's Eve the "leaders" of the Peiping
régime issued a statement urging the Japanese Government and
people to extend "magnanimcus support end sympathy" in re-
constructing Chinese administration. Sir Robert Craigie
informed Mr. Grew that the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
had stated categorically to him on December 17 thot the Japan-
ese Government had no present intention of recognizing the
so-celled "provisional government" of China.*
The "Federated Autonomous Govom ment of Mongolia" was
installed on December E with Prince Yun as Chairmen and Prince
Teh as Vice Chairman and Fresident of the Political Council.
On December 10, according to Domei, ther: was inaugurated at
Taiyuan the "Shansi Autonomous Government," in accordance with
"the wish of e million inhabitent; of the Province.' A mani-
festo issued by the Shansi régime pledged limination of the
in.fluence of the Kuomintang and cf the Chinese Army in Shansi
Province, friendly coopeiation witi Japan and "Manchukuo",
and firm opposition to comnunism. A week later it was re-
ported that the new Shansi régime had decided to merge with
the Provisienal Government of China at Peiping.
(6) Japanese Economic Plans in Chine.
Luring the month the Cebinet opproved a program for ec-
onomic development of North China and of the Shenehai area
which had been a dopted by the Nortr Chine Measures Committee
consisting
* Embassy's telogram No. 654, December 18, 1937.

=== Page 577 === (confidence 0.97)
-17-
consisting of officiels of the Plcnning Board, the Army, the
Navy, the Ministries of Finance and Foreign Affairs, and
the Manchurian Affairs Bureau. According to the Japanese
newspapers, this plan includes the following points: North
China is to be developec economicelly in close cooperetion
with the Frovisioral Government of Chine on the basis of
Sino-Jepenese co-existence and co-prosperity; a company is
to be established to plan and control onterprises; no com-
petition of ccpital is to be recognized in public utility
cntcrprises such as railways, communications, port, harbor,
and river improvements, road building, and mining; capitel-
ists mey, however, operate freely in the development of raw
cotton, wool, spinning, and the salt industry, but appropriate
control will be established lest such cepitelists "fall into
vicious competition"; as a provisional measure the enterprises
lready Jounched ir North Chine by the South Manchuria Rail-
way Company and the North Chin- Dovelopment Company shell be
recognized but no unterpiises shall be cerried out under
their nanes; nd at Shanrh-i uapan shell cooporete with
the Chinese in their pl'n for th conomic rehebilitation
of the city. The JAPA TIMEs of D.cember 17 stated that
this economic progrom c lled fer the introducticn of foreign
copitel for the developnent of Morth Chin on the besis of
the "Open Door" policy for all foruign countries.
A Domci despatch fron K lean reported that on the occesion
of the first shipment to J: pan of iron ore from the Lungyen
mine, a ceremony had been held in. Kalgen "in celebration of
the first material gidn from the recent punitive campaign of
the Japanese nation". This news agency steted thet between
500,000 and 700,000 tons of iror ore would re sent to Japan
from the Kalgan district by the end of the year 1938.
(b)

=== Page 578 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
(b) Great Britain.
(1) Japanese Attacks on British Naval Vessels
LADYBIRD AND BEE
Reports were received by the British Embassy that the
British naval vessels LADYBIRD and BEE, as well as British
merchant vessels, all in the vicinity of Wuhu on the Yangtze
River, had on December 12 been attacked by Japanese machine
guns and field pieces; that the LADYBIRD had suffered four
direct hits with one seaman killed, another seaman seriously
wounded, and several men receiving minor injuries, including
the flag captain, and that the BEE had been fired upon but
with no damage resulting. On December 13 the British Ambassa-
dor protested personally in the most emphatic manner to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs against these attacks, stating
that "British public orinion was bound tc take a most serious
view of this incident" and urging that the Japanese Govern-
ment make a suitable apology as soon as possible. Mr. Hirota
called in person on ir Robert Craigie on the afternoon of
December 14 and expressed apology and regrets on behalf of
the Japanese Government.
On December 14 the British Ambassador addressed to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs a letter to the effect that the
Japanese order to fire on all ships moving on the Yangtze
appeared still to be in force and that furthermore the guns
of Japanese batteries were still trained pointblank on the
LADYBIRD and the BEE.
Sir Robert Craigie stated with regard
to the first point that it appeared to him to disclose on the
part of the responsible Japanese military authorities in
China a regrettable disregard for the consequences of their
action of December 12, and with regard to the second point
that

=== Page 579 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
that he emphatically protested and requested that immediate
instructions be sent to the Japanese commander at Wuhu to
desist from "this threatening and wholly unnecessary action."
Acting under instructions received from his Government,
on December 16 the British Ambessador addressed to the Minister
for Foreign Affairs a note protesting against the attacks made
by Japanese aircraft and land forces on the British warships
LADYBIRD and BEE and on British merchant vessels at Wuhu and
near Nanking on December 12. The note expressed the satis-
faction of the British Government at having received the uote
of the Minister for Foreign Affairs dated December 14, which
offered the profound apology of the Japanese Government for
the attacks on the British vessels, stated that measures had
been immediately taken to prevent the reourrence of such in-
would
cidents, and added that the Japanese Government/deal suitably
with those responsible for the incidents and would pay the
necessary compensation. In addition, the British note re-
quested that an assurance be given that all that had been
said in the Japenese note applied equally to Japanese attacks
on British merchant vessels. In conclusion, the British
Government asked to be informed what measures had actually
been taken of a character which would put a definite stop to
these incidents.*
On December 18 the British Embassy re-
ceived the Foreign Office's provisional reply, which stated
that the assurances given in the Foreign Office's note of
December 14 with regard to British warships were equally ap-
plicable to the British merchant vessels which were attacked
in similar circumstances on December 12.
The
Embassy's telegram No. 642, December 16, 1937.

=== Page 580 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
The British Ambassador received on December 28 the final
reply of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the formal British
representations of December l6. The reply stated that the
attacks upon British vessels had been a mistake; that as
soon as the vessels were known to be British, Japanese bomb-
ing and military units had ceased firing and offered medical
assistance; that with reference to the reported statement of
a Japanese officer that he had received orders to fire on
all vessels on the Yangtze River, the orders issued referred
only to vessels used by the Chinese; that in order to ensure
egainst recurrence of similar incidents those responsible
were being dealt with according to law; and that further to
guard against recurrence of such incidents greater caution
would be exercised in areas where there were vessels of third
Powers even if it should entail permitting Chinese forces to
escape.* Pursuant to instructions received from the British
Government, on December 31 Sir Robert Craigie addressed to
Mr. Hirota a note in reply, the substance of which was that
the British Government noted with satisfaction that the
Japanese Government had taken or was prepered to take the
necessary measures to deal suitably with the officers res-
ponsible for the incidents end to prevent any repetition.
The British note ended by stating that the details of the
Japanese Government's measures and their effective applica-
tion might in the opinion of the British Government suitably
form the subject of further conversations in the course of
which the British Government did not doubt that it would be
informed of actual steps decided upon.
(2)
* Embassy's telegram No. 697, December 30, 1937.

=== Page 581 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
(2) Representations Made by the British Govern-
ment in Tokyo in Connection with the Sino-
Japanese Conflict.
There follows a summary of the more important representa-
tions made by the British Embassy in Tokyo in mattersarising
out of the Sino-Japanese conflict.*
On December 3 Sir Robert Craigie addressed to Mr. Hirota
an informal letter strongly urging trie desirability of taking.
no action vis-à-vis the Customs Commissioner in Shanghai until
an understanding on the Shanghai customs issue had been reached
with the British, American, and French representatives, and
protesting vigorously against the proposal of the Japanese
Consul General in Shanghai that the customs revenues should
be deposited with the Yokohama Specie Bank as a condition
precedent to any discussion with representatives of the in-
terested Powers.** The British Embassy made other repre-
sentations regarding Shanghai, including the following: the
reported intention of the Japanese authorities in Shanghai
to disrupt the present financial organization; the decision
of the Japanese authorities to place a censor in the Chinese
Telegraph Office in Shanghai; casualties suffered by the
British forces in Shanghai as a result of the recent hostili-
ties there; the plan to send 'Japarese troops thr ugh the
International and French Settlements on a demonstration
march; and the "unrestrained interference" of the Japanese
military authorities in the affairs of the Municihal Adinis-
tration of Shanghai.
In accordance with instructions received from his Gov-
ernment, on December 3 the British Ambassador addressed a
note
Embassy's despatches No. 2690, December 10, No. 2708,
December 23, 1937, and No. 2721, January 6, 1938.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 594, December 4, 1937.

=== Page 582 === (confidence 1.00)
-22-
note to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on December 3 request-
ing that instructions be sent to the Japanese military auth-
orities in the Nanking area to afford the necessary protection
to British subjects and to British property in Nanking.
On December 18 the British Embassy made representations
to the Foreign Office requesting that the Japanese authorities
give assurances that the Japanese forces would attack neither
a certain specified area in Hankow in which Consulates and
Embassy staffs were located,nor the river front adjoining
this area in which were stationed naval vessels of British,
Americen, French, and Italian nationality, as well as for-
eign merchant ships.*
The British Ambassador addressed a formal note to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs on December 22 protesting against
the alleged serious violation on December ll of the territorial
waters and of the territory itself of Hong Kong by a Japanese
destroyer and requesting that the British Government be in-
formed of the nature of the disciplinary action which had been
tken against those responsible for the incident.**
Cn December 28 Sir Robert Craigieleft with Mr. Hirota
a memorandum stating that the British Government looked to
the Japenese Government to give prior warning in the event
of any area on the Yangtze River becoming a danger area, and
to indicate to the British Government the zones in which
British nationals and shirping could be concentrated under
e guarantee of safety. The British note reminded the Japan-
ese Government that the British Government claimed absolute
freedom for its ships to move and trade freely on the river.***
(3)
Embassy's telegram No. 672, December 23, 1937.
Embassy's telegram No. 673, December 23, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegrams No. 682, December 26, and Nc. 690.
December 28, 1937.

=== Page 583 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
(3) Anti-British Feeling in Japan.
Anti-British feeling in Japan was somewhat abated during
the month by expressions of regret over the incident involv-
ing the British naval vessels LADYBIRD and BEE. However, the
Japanese continued to criticize Great Britain for its alleged-
ly un-neutral action in supplying arms and munitions to China,
for the "unsympathetic attitude" of the British authorities
in Chira, and for what the Japanese chose to call Great
Britain's policy of befriending and encouraging China and of
obstructing Japan in its campaign to "establish lasting peace
in the Far East."
(c) Soviet Russia.
Japanese-Soviet Russian relations, in which danger is al-
ways latent, were ruffled on the surface by three controver-
sies: the fisheries issue, the continued detention by Soviet
authorities of seven Japanese subjects, and the forced migration
into remote parts of the Soviet Union of a large number of
Korean residents of the Maritime Provinces.
Despite Japan's insistence that the Soviet Government
reconsider its attitude and agree to sign a new fisheries
convention to replace the convention of l928, the Soviet
Union reiused to come to terms. A comnittee of members of
the Upper and Lower Houses called on the Minister for For-
eign Affairs on December e and presented to him a resolution
to the effect that the Soviet attitude toward a new fisher-
ies convention could not be overlooked from the stendpoint
of international good faith and protection of Japan's rights
and interests. Since the term of duration of the Japanese-
Soviet

=== Page 584 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
Soviet fishery convention signed on January 23, l928, and
prolonged by the protocol of December 28, 1936, was due to
come to an end on December 31, 1937, the two governments
signed a protocol on December 29, 1937, providing that the
convention of 1928 shall remain in force until December 31,
1938. The Russian Waters Fishing Guild, composed of firms
engaged in fishing off Kamchetka, issued a statement through
Domei on December 30 to the effect that the Guild was not
at all satisfied with "such a provisional settlenent achieved
through patchwork" and was resolved to do everything possible
to obtain a new agreement which would respect Japan's rights
and interests accruing from the Portsmouth Treaty.
On December 17 the Foreign Office handed to the Soviet
Embassy in Tokyo a memorandum protesting against the con-
tinuous detention since March 27, 1937, of seven Japanese
subjects on churges of espionage and other "grave offenses"
against the Soviet Union. The Japanese memorandum was ac-
companied by a request for "a responsitle al.swer" at the
earliest possible date.
Mr. Kawai, the Foreign Office spokesnan, issued a state-
mert on Lecember 6 concerning the Soviet Government's dis-
regard of Japan's repeated protests against tne Soviet policy
of forcing Koreans living in the Maritime Province to migrate
to distant parts of the Soviet Union. Mr. Kawai said that
Japan could not recognize the Soviet contention that the Koreans
were Soviet citizens, and that unless the Mosccw authorities
modified their attitude on the issue the Japanese Government
would be obliged to take what it deemed to be appropriate
measures.
(a)

=== Page 585 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
(a) Italy.
According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of December 12, on
the evening of December ll the Counselor of the Italian Em-
bassy called at the Foreign Office and "had the honor of
especially notifying" the Japanese Government of Italy's
formal withdrawal from the League of Nations. It was said
that the Italian Counselor's call at the Foreign Office co-
incided precisely with the time of Italy's notificaticn to
the League.
A Domei despatch from Rome dated December 21 reported
that Premier Mussolini had on that day given full approval
of Japan's current action ir. China in the course of a con-
versation with Mr. Seigo Nakano, "unofficial Japanese envoy"
to Italy.
A subsequent despatch of this news agency from
Rome stated that according to an official announcement of
the Italian Government made on December 25, Premier Mussolini
had decided to send shortly to Japan a special commission in-
cluding representatives of the Facist Government, Army and
Navy, with the view to consolidating the Rome-Berlin-Tokyo
axis.
(e) Germany.
Notwithstanding press predictions, Germany's contemplated
de jure recognition of "anchukuo" did not materialize during
the month.*
In a press conference on December 6, the Foreign Office
spokesman asserted that Japan had not been approached by any
country to use its good offices for mediation in the Sino-
Japanese conflict, and denied knowledge of the reported ac-
tivities looking toward mediation of the German Ambassador
to China, Dr. Trautmann.
(f)
Embassy's despatch No. 2691, December 10, and Monthly
Report for November, Section II (c).

=== Page 586 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
(r) Spain.
The Japanese Government formally extended recognition
to the Franco Government of Spain on December 1 and recognized
Mr. F. J. del Castillio as Spanish Chargé d'affaires in Tokyo.
On this occasion the Foreign Cffice spokesman issued the
following statement:
"Although unfortunately the internecine war
in Spain has not yet come to an end, the extension
of formal recognition to the Government under Gen-
eral Franco is in conformity with the realities of
the situation, since that Government not only controls
more than a half of the territory of Spain and all of
the colonies, tut has built up a solid foundation as
a government. The administrative and judicial functions
are being carried on normally in the occupied areas in
sharp contrast to the chaotic and anarchical conditions
prevailing in Valencia and Barcelona.
"That the Spanish disturbance originated as a
result of the activities of the People's Front created
through the Comintern's intrigues and machinations is
clear in the light of the circumstances surrounding
its outbreak. General Franco has been fighting for
the express purpose of expelli.g Communism and Anarchism
since July last year, when the outbreak began there,
and it is generally known that both Germany and Italy,
united in the common aim of guarding against the Comin-
tern, extended recognition to the Franco Government in
November last year.
"It is a matter for sincere congratulation that
through the present recognition, friendly relations have
been e stablished between our country and the Franco
Government with which we are in agreement regarding
the policy to be pursued toward the Comintern. Simul-
taneously we find deep significance in this recognition,
as being certain to promote the intimate relations now
existing between Japan, Germany, and Italy."
Two days later a ceremony at which the flag of the Franco
Government was hoisted was held at the Spanish Legation and
was attended by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the
German, Italian, and "Manchukuo" Ambassadors.
on

=== Page 587 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
On December 2, through an exchange of notes at the
Japanese Foreign Office by the "Manchukuo" Ambassador and the
Spanish Chargé d'ffaires, the "anchukuo" Government and the
Franco Government of Spein formally recognized each other.
(g) "Manchukuo".
The following revised agreement dated December l con-
cerning rights of the Japanese military forces ir "Manchukuo"
territory was signed by General Chang Ching-hui, Premier of
"Manchukuo", and General Uyede, Japanese Ambassador to
"Manchukuo" and Commander of the Kwantung Army:
Article 1. The "Manchukuo" Government, in
formulating orders and ordinances with regerd to
its army, will endeavor to let the Japanese army
take fuli advantage of these regulations also.
If necessaryk it will consider the regulations
binding the Japanese army as binding equally on
those subject to "Manchukuo" law. Details of the en-
forcement of such a step will be decided on efter
further consultations.
Article 2. The Manchukuo Government will make
it possible for the Japanese military police to apply
Manchukuo laws to those under the jurisdiction of the
Manchukuo Government and duly endorse its military,
judicial and administrative policing rights in order
to carry out its duty of safeguarding the safety and
welfare of the Japane se army in any specified zone
and to ensure peace and crder there.
The action of the Japanese as specified above
shall be e ually as valid as the policine of the proper
organs of the Manchukuo Government.
If, in accordance with the fundamental principle
of common defense, Japanese and Manchukuo organs find
it necessary to take concerted action to prevent the
spread of Communism in Manchukuo, the Japanese organs
shall be empowered to take the steps necessary for
carrying out the control and co-ordinated action decided
on.
Article 3. The Japan-Manchukuo accord regarding
general judicial and police administration shall be
considered valid in regard to the cooperation of the
military, juciciel and police administrations of the
two countries.
Article 4.

=== Page 588 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
Article 4. For the enforcement of this agreement
in time of war or emergency, further consultations will
be held between the Japanese and Manchukuo officials.
(h) France
(1) Representations Made by the French Embassy
in Connection with the Sino-Japanese Conflict.
On December 6 the French Ambassador made further rep-
resentations to the Foreign Office concerning the Shanghai
customs issue, stating that according to information recent-
ly obtained the Japanese authorities at Shanghai persisted
in wishing to negotiete with the local office of the Chinese
customs there, contrary to the previous arrangement made by
the Japanese authorities with the representatives of the
Powers interested in this question.*
The French Ambassador made representations to the Foreign
Office on December 18 requesting assurance that the French
Concession in Hankow and French shipping in the Hankow area
would be free of attack by Japanese forces.**
(2) French Extraterritorial Rights in Manchuria.
By a note dated December 6, the French Ambassador brought
to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs the fact
that the French Consul at Mukden had informed the authorities
at Hsinking that in the oninion of the French Government the
extraterritorial rights enjoyed by French citizens in Man-
churia by virtue of treaties remained intact and could not
be abolished by the Japanese-Manchukuo Treaty of November 6,
1937. The French Ambassador's note added that his Govern-
ment
Embassy's despatch No. 2690, December 10, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 672, December 23, and Embassy's
despatch No. 2721, January 6, 1938.

=== Page 589 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
ment could not admit that international agreements might be
abrogated in so simple a manner, inasmuch as the authorities
of "Manchukuo" could by no means separate themselves from
such agreements by a unilateral decision.*
(i) Australia.
A Japanese-Australian shipping conference concerned
with the ratio of Australian wool shipments carried by
Australian and Japanese ships and with other issues was con-
vened on December l but no decisions were reached before
the close of the month.
(j) The Vatican.
On December 3 the Pope appointed as Archbishop of Tokyo
the Reverend Peter Tatsuo Doi, the first Japane se to hold
the position of Archbishep in Japan.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CCNDITICNS.
(a) The Cabinet.
Dr. Eiichi Baba, the Home Minister, tendered his resig-
nation on December 13, eiving illness as the reason for this
step. (Dr. Baba died on December 21, 1937). Admiral Nobumasa
Suyetsugu, well-known chauvinist, former Commander-in-Chief
of the Combined Fleet, and former member of the Supreme War
Council, was appointed Home Minister on December 15. Admiral
Suyetsugu, one of whose first official acts as Home Minister
494.612
was to direct the arrest of numerous left wing suspects,
issued a statement on December 22 that nothing tainted with
communism could be tolerated in Japan at the present critical
time.
(b)
* Embassy's despatch No. 2689, December 9, 1937.

=== Page 590 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
(b) The Navy.
On December 1 Admiral Osami Nagano, Commander-in-Chief
of the Combined Fleet and of the First Fleet, was appointed
a member of the Supreme War Council and Vice Admiral Zengo
Yoshida, Commander-in-Chief of the Second Fleet, was appointed
to succeed Admiral Nagano as Commander of the Combined Fleet
and of the First Fleet.
The naval press section of the Imperial Headquarters
announced on December 1 that the Navy had lost 835 men in
China since the beginning of the hostilities.
(c) Political Parties.
The press reported a movement among the members of the
Minseito and the Seiyukai, the twc major parties in the
House of Representatives, to dissolve these parties and form
a new joint party in view of the resert emergency situation.
In addition, a movement for dissolution of the Shakai Taishuto
(Social Mass Party) was reported to have been initiated by
members of this orgai.izaticn. Cn December le Mr.Mitsuru
Toyama, Admiral Eisuke Yamamoto, and Prince Sanjo issued a
manifesto urging the amalcamat. on of all political groups in-
to a single Nationalist Party. The police arrested from 350
to 400 so-called "communists" on December 22, among them Mr.
Kanju Kato, a member of the House of Representatives and the
leader of the Shakai Taishuto. Subsequently, the Home Office
issued an order dissolving the Japan Proletariat Party and
the National Council of Labor Unions of Japan.
At the close of the month the collapse of party politics
in Japan appeared to be almost complete.*
(a)
* Embassy's despatch No. 2722, January 6, 1938.

=== Page 591 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
(d) The Diet.
The 73rd Session of the Diet was formally opened by
the Emperor on December 26 with the reading of an Imperial
Rescript, Domei's translation of which follows:
"In opening the Imperial Diet, We take the
opportunity to inform the members of the House of
Peers and the House of Representatives that We are
g
greatly gratified to see the relations between Japan
and its treaty Powers growing in friendship and cor-
diality.
"Our officers and men are winning every battle,
enhancing their military prestige both at home and
abroad, while Our nation is solidly uniting 'behind
the rifle. in overcoming difficulties attending the
94.032
current situation.
"We are confident of attaining Our ultimate ob-
jective, by depending on the unswerving loyalty and
devotion of Our whole nation.
"We have ordered the Ministers of State to
submit to the Imperial Diet the ordinary budget for
1938 and the extraordinary military budget, together
with various legislative bills. In view of the
gravity of the situation, gentlemen, we hope that
you will cooperate in deliberating on those bills
and that you will do your shere in the conduct of State
affairs."
On the following day co'ies of the 1938-39 draft budget,
as approved by the Cabinet, which calls for the expenditure
of Y 2,867 ,796,000, exclusive of the special China Incident
budget, were distributed to members of both Houses of the
Diet.
The Diet was adjourned on December 27 for the customary
New Year recess until January 20.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V.

=== Page 592 === (confidence 0.98)
-32-
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
The Finance Ministry decided on December 10 to widen
the scope of the existing foreign exchange control regula-
tions as follows: Government permits shall be required for
all transactions in excess of ¥ 50,000 involving the sale of
foreign securities and all other property abroad; for the
purchase of land or vessels for more than ¥ 50,000 a year;
for the purchase of mining, timbering, or industrial rights
in excess of y 50,o00 a year; for the offering of securities
for debts incurred by Japanese abroad; for remittances abroad
in payment of imports without bills of exchange in excess
of ¥100 a month (formerly ¥ 1,000 a month); for remittances
for travelling expenses exceeding 1,000 yen a month (formerly
Y 5,000 a month); and for remittances abroad of insurance
money, excopting premiums for re-insurance and maritime
insurance.*
Toward the end of the month the Finance Ministry issued
¥300,o00,000 worth of new national bonds in connection with
the Sino-Japanese incident.
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITICNS.
(a) Foreign Trade.
Japanese exports for December were ¥ 210,244,000 and
imports into Japan were Y 208,424,000, as compared with Nov
ember exports of Yen 252,982,000 and November imports of
Y 210,031,000. Thus, there was a favoreble balance of trade
of only ¥ 1,820,000 as compared with a favorable balance for
November of ￥ 42,951,000.**
According
* Embassy's telegram No. 639, December 15, 1937.
**Data furnished by Commercial Attaché.

=== Page 593 === (confidence 0.99)
-33-
According to a report of the Finence Ministry as quoted
by Domei, Japan's total foreign trade for the period Janu-
ary 1 to December 20, 1937, was greater than it had been for
the corresponding period in any previous year, amounting to
¥7,028,049,000, hich representeu an increase of 28.8 per
cent over the same pericd for 1936.
(b) Financial Trends.
The money merket wos extremely casy; the stock merket,
which had been dull for everel months, becane active owing
to the successful milit ry operations in China, continued in-
dustrial activity, and the Government's decisicn against any
drastic increasc in taxes; and the average yen rate was
$0.29125 as compared with 0.290875 for November.*
VII. ACTIVITI..S OF AMERICAN CCMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
According te inrormation furnished the Embessy
on
by
December 23/fir. Benjamin Kopf, General Manager of the Ford
Motor Company of Japan, during the month the Ford Company
agreed to purchase one million yen worth of China incident
national bonds ir. ruturn for which the Exchange Control Com-
mission promiced to permit the conpany to remit one million
yen immediately due the parent company in the United States
as dividends up to June 30, 1937, and to remit an addition-
al million yen to the parent company about January 1. The
Ford Company official steted that he had the promise of the
Exchange Control Commission that besides the amounts men-
tioned above the Commission would give consideration to
the transfer of approximately three million yen representing
dividends
* Informetion furnished by Commercial Attaché.

=== Page 594 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
dividends due the purent compeny for the six months ending
December 31, 1937.*
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
According to investigations
by the Labor Section
of the Prefectural Police made public in December, there
have been only 20 cases of labor disputes betwcen capitalists
and employees since the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese hos-
tilities, es compared with over lo0 such disputes for the
period January 1 to April 30, 1937.
The press reported thet a mo vement had been started
in Jap nese labor circles in favor of Japan's withdrawal
from the International Lebor Conference in view of the reso-
lution condemning Japan's action in China passed shortly
after the outbreak of the Sino-Japenese conflict by the In-
ternetional Labor Union League, which is said to control
the delegates of the International Labor Conference.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.
* Embossy's despatch No. 2729, January 7, 1936.

=== Page 595 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO TE DEPARTMENT
DURINC DECEMBER 1937
No.
Date
Sub ject
De. 1 10 a.m.
Richardson's insurance policy.
535
f.e
2 C a.m.
Extraterritoriality in sncheria
583
Doc 2, 2 m
Extraterrl orialicy ir Nanchuria.
587
Dec. 2. 3 p.m.
American citizens in Nanking
539
Dec. 2, 4 p.m.
March of Japanese troops tnrcugh neutral
areas in Shanghai.
589
Dec. , i p.m.
March of Japanese troors through neutral
areas in Shanghai.
500
Dec. 5 2 p.m.
Press reports of German rocomitior of
Manchukuo.
591
Dec. 3, 3 p.m.
Mutual exchange of recoerition oj Manchukuo
and the Franco régime.
592
Dec. 3, 5 r.m.
Safe conduct for party leaving Hankow
by train December 10.
593
Dec. 4, i0 a.
Requisition for Disbursing Officer.
594
Dec. 4,  .
Shanghai customs.
595
Dec. 4. 9 n.
Declaration ot war by Japan.
596
Dec. 4, 10 f.n.
Foreign loans to Jaran.
597
Dec. 5, 1' n.m.
ro legram a :lotment.
598
Dec. 5,.m
Jorrerence oetveer the Government end
Imp rial H ad uarters.
599
Dec. 5, 8 p.7.
Chinesr custore.
600
Dec. 7, 2 n..
acknowludgint American press comment.
601
Dec. 7, 3 p.m
Financii ssistance to Japan.
602
Dec. 7, 4 p.m.
Alaska lisheries.
603
Dec. 7, ! p.m.
Withdrawal of recoenition of Chinese Govt.
604
Dec. 7, 7 p.m.
Supposed loss of mail pouch.
605
Dec. 8, noon
Japanese votire in International Tele-
communicstion conferences.
506
Dec. 8, 6 p.m.
Feace negotiations, China-Japan.
607
Dec. 8, 8 r.m.
Surposed loss of mail pouch.
608
Dec. 9, 4 p.m.
Japanese Army opinion regarding peace
settlement.
600
Dec. 7;.5 p.7.
Japanes bonhine at Wuhu.
610
Dec. 10, 11 a.m.
Wuhu bombing.
611
Dec. 10, 3 p.m.
American citizens in Nunking.

=== Page 596 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Nc.
Date
Subject
612
Dec. 10, 4 p.m.
American Church Mission Wusih.
€13
Dec. 10, 5 p.m.
Evacuation of Nanking.
614
Dec. 10, 0 p.m.
Americans remaining in Nenking.
615
Den. 10, ~ p.m.
Mar cn of Japanese troops through Internationa
Settlement
616
Ded. 11, 3 p.m.
March of Japanese troons through Inter.
national Settlement.
617
Dec . 12, 6 p.m.
Grounded S.S. PRESIDENT HCOVHR.
618
Dec. 12, 8 p.m.
Grounded S.S. PRESIDENT HCOVIR
619
Dec. i3, noon.
Danger to American ships near Nanking.
620
Dec. 13, ? p.m.
Grounded S.S. PRESIDENT HOOVER.
621
Dec. 13, 2 p.m.
From the Commercial Attaché for Commerce.
622
Dec. 13, 3 p.m.
Sinking of U.S.S. PANAY
623
Dec. 13, 5 p.m.
Press ban on PANAY sinkirg.
624
Dec. 13,  p.m.
PANAY incident.
625
Dec. 13. 3:45 p.m.
PANAY incidert.
626
Dec. 14 nocn
Attack cn ritish ships LADVRIRD and PEE.
627
Dec. 14, 1 P.m.
Japanese rold shipments to the United States
628
Dec. 14, 4 p.m.
Japanese at acks on British ships.
629
Dec. 14, 5 p.m.
Japanesc troops in Intcrnational Settlement.
630
Dec. 14, 6 p.m.
PANAY inc ident.
631
vec. 14, C p.m.
FANAY incident.
632
Dec. 14, 10 p.m.
Shanghai customs.
633
Dec. 14, 11 p.m.
Japanese press opinions.
634
Dec. 15, noon
Strictly conridential for thc Secretary.
635
Dec. 15, 1 p.m.
TANAY incident.
636
Dec. 15 , 2 p.m.
Japanese imports of American cotton.
637
Dec. 15, 3 p.m.
FANAY incident.
638
Dec. 15, 4 p.m.
PANAY incident.
633
Dec. 15, 5 p.m.
Changes in Foreign Exchange Control.
640
Dec. 15, 6 p.n.
Our S35 should be marked confidential.
641
Dec. 15, 7 p.m.
Japanese incerference with rescue work
at Hohsien.
642
Dec. 16, 11 a.m.
Japanese attacks on British ships.

=== Page 597 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
No.
Date
Subject
643
Dec. j6. 2 m.
Contract for language officers' uition.
6±4
Des. 16, 6 5.m.
Declaration of war by Jepa1
645
Dec. 13, 7 p.m.
PANAY ircident - contr'bctlons.
640
Dec. 16
8 p.m
Ciphers.
647
Dec. 17, 1 p.m.
PANAY
incident.
648
Ded. 17. 2 p.m.
Safe conduct for speciel crain from Hankow.
649
Dec. 17. 4 p,m.
Import-export and exchunee ccntrol.
650
Dec. 17, 5 p.m.
Press reports regarding American naval move.
651
Dec. 17, 6 p.m.
Payment of commercial dues by GoLD STAR.
652
Dec. 17, 7 p.m.
PANAY incident.
653
Dec. 17, ε p.m.
PANAY incident.
654
Dec. 18, 11 a.m.
Japanese recognition of provisional
government in North Cnina.
655
Dec. 18, 3 r.n
PANAY incident.
655
Dec. 18, 8 p.
Aiaska
salmon fisheries.
657
Dec. 19, 1 p.1.
PANAY
incident.
658
Dec. 1 9, 4 .r.
American press reports.
659
Dec. 19, 5 r.m.
Aluska fisheries.
660
Dec. 20, 1] a.m.
Coding and clericnl staff.
661
Dec. 20, noon
Alaska fisnories.
662
Dec. 20, 3 p.m.
PANAY incident.
663
Dec. 20, 4 p.m.
Evacuation from Hankow.
664
Dec. 21, noon.
March of Japarese troops through the
International Settlement at Shanghai.
665
Dec. 21, 6 p.m.
Conference petween the Government and
Imperial Headquarters.
666
Dec. 21, 7 p.m.
Japanese press opinions.
C67
Dec. 22, 9 a.m.
Japanese attacks on british vessels.
668
Dec. 22, 11 a,m.
PANAY incident.
663
Dec. 22, 8 p.m.
Alaska fisheries.
€70
Dec. 23, noon
J&panese shipping laws.
671
Dec. 2 3, 3 p.m.
From Commercial Attacné for Commerce.
672
Dec. 23, 4 p.m.
Area free from attack at Hankow.
673
Dec. 2 3, 5 p.m.
Japanese violation of British territory
at Hong Kong.

=== Page 598 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
No.
Dete
Subject
674
Dec. 23
6 p.m.
Conversation of British Ambassador with
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
675
Dec. 23, 10 p.m.
Dhinese customs.
676
Dec. 23, 11 p.m.
PANAY incident.
677
Dec. 24, 6 p.m.
PANAY incident.
678
Dec. 24, 7 p.m.
Alaska fisheries.
679
Dec. 24, 8 p.m.
PANAY incident.
680
Dec. 25, noon
PANAY incident.
681
Dec. 25, 5 p.m.
Chinese customs.
682
Dec. 26, 10 a.m.
Hankow safety zone.
683
Dec. 26, noon.
I.dAY incident.
684
Dec. 27, 11.m.
Japanese holidays.
685
Dec. 28, 11 a.m.
Code books.
686
Dec. 28 noon
PANAY incident. Safety zonc at Tsingteo.
687
Dec. 28, 1 r.m
PANAY incident - contrihutions.
688
Dec. 28, ε n.m.
Frecedence at Imperial reception.
689
Dec. 29, 3 p.n
Allison's journey to Nanking in OAHU.
690
Dec. 28, 4 p.m.
Denger areas on the Yangtze.
691
Dec. 28, 5 p.m.
PAAY incident.
692
Dec. 28, 6 p.m.
Ida Kahn Hospital.
693
Dec. 28, 7 p.m.
Japanese press opinions.
694
Dec. 29, 10 a,m.
FANAY incident - contributions.
695
Dec. 29, 11 a.m.
Chinese customs.
696
Dec. 29, noon
Hankow evacuation.
697
Dec. 30, 11 a.m.
Japanese attacks on british vessels.
698
Dec. 31, 5 p.m.
PANAY incident.
699
Dec. 31, 7 p.m.
Chinese customs.
700
Dec. 31, 8 p.m.
Japanese attacks on British vessels.

=== Page 599 === (confidence 0.97)
DESFATCHES SENT TO T E DEPARTT ENT
DURING DEDEMBER 1937.
No.
Date
Subject
2682
Dec. 2
Pan American Airways.
2883
Dec
3
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES 1922.
2.634
Den. 3
Letters rcgatcry. Yano cese
2685
De:.
Japarese shippin: list.
2 686
Dec E
Monthly political report for November
2687
Dec. 3
):plomatic visa report.
2688
Dec. 9
International Telecommunicaticn Conferences.
2689
Dec.?
Extraterritoriality in Manchuria.
2690
Dec. 10
Rccommendations made and steps taken by the
American Embassy and steps taken by the Dritish
and French Embassies in Tokyo with resrect to the
Sino-Japanese conflict.
2691
Dec. 10
Italian recognition of "Manchukuo".
2692
Dec. 10
Jino-Jaranese relotions.
2693
Dec. 10
Chinese custcms.
2694
Dec. 10
Alaskan salmon risheries.
2695
Dec. 10
C.pher tables.
2696
Dec. 11
Anl  ericar releticns as regards Jipan.
2697
Dec. 21
Arrival ef cl rk velyn K. Varley.
2698
Dec. 21
Diplomatic visa reporo
2599
Dec. 21
Exchange of Gov rnment publicati ns.
2700
Dec. 22
Two-yeer examinaticn of six langusge officers.
2701
Dec. 22
To-year examination, Language officer
David K. Caldvell.
2702
Eec. 22
Two-year examinaticn, Lanruage officer
Reppo R. Joharsen.
2703
Dec. 22
Two-year examination, Language Officer
U. Alexis Johnson.
2704
Dec. 22
Two-year exemination, Langgage officer
W. Garland Richardson.
3705
Dec. 22
Two-year examination, Languafe Officer
Max W. ocnmidt.
2706
Dec. 22
Two-vear exarination, Language Officer
William E. Yuni.
2707 Dec. 23
Sino-Japanese relaticns.

=== Page 600 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
No.
Date
Subject
2708 Dec. 23
Sino-Japanese conflict. Recommendations made
and steps taken.
2709
Dec. 23
Chinese customs.
2710
Dec. 23
Sinking of the U.S.S. TANAY by Japanese airplanes.
2711
Dec. 23
Alaska salmon fishing situatior.
2712
Dec. 31
Diplomatic visa report.

=== Page 601 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo, January 18, 1938.
No. 2735.
SUBJECT:
REPORT ON CCINTTTIN  JAFAN DURING THE
MONTH CF DTCERL1, 19U7
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washinston.
Sir:
With reference t. the Department's instruction No. 93
1/
of July 2o, 1ose, I have the honer to transmit herewith
the Embassy's mertily rerort on conditicns in Japan for
the month of Lecemter, 1957.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
Joseph c. Grew.
1/ Report No. 1::.
Copy to Embassy, Pei 
Embus.y, Nosw
Eabasey, ar 
Conculate Genor ', hanoai
Constlate Generel, Hukden
Censulate General, Harbin
Consul ate, Csake
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate. Dairen
In quinturlicate te the Department.
800
GDA:C

=== Page 602 === (confidence 0.97)
No. 135
REPORT ON CONDITIONS II: JAPAN DURING
THE L:ONTH 0F DECE.BER, 1937.

=== Page 603 === (confidence 0.98)
INDEXAND
SUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a) Sinking of the U.S.S. Gunboet PANAY
by Jepenese Airplanes..
..1,2,3,4,5
(b) Representations mede by the Embassy
in connection with the Sino-Japanese
Conflict..
.5,6,7,8,9,10
(c) Salmon Fishing in Alaskan Waters.........10,1l
(d) American Extraterritorial Rights
in Manchuria.
.11,12
II.
RELATIONS NITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.
.12,13,14,15,
16,17
(1) Cepture of Nanking and other Cities
in the Shanet.ai-Nanking Area..
12,13
(2) Japanese Military Cperations in Shantung
Province..
13
(3) Activities of the Japanese Air Forces.14
(4) O1ficial Japane.e Statements..........14,16
(5) Autonomous Régimes in China
S: onsered by the Japanese.....
.15,16
(e) Japanese Economie Plans in China......16,17
(b) Great Fritain......
.18,19,20,21
22,23
(1) Jarane: e Attacks on ritirh Haval
Vessels LALYIRD and BEE.........
.18,19,20
(2) Ropresentati ne Maue by the Britich
Governnent in T kyo in Cenneetion
with the Sinc-Jarime. e Conf1:ct.......21,22
(3) Anti-Fritih Feelinr n Jaran.......
.23
(c) Soviet Ruc. ia.......
.23,24
(d) Italy.
.25
(e) Germary......
.25
(f) Spain...
.26,27
(c) "Manchukuo".
.27,28

=== Page 604 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
(n) France.......
.28,29
(i) (1) Representatiors Made by the
French Embassy in Connection with
the Siro-Japarese Conflict.
28
(2) French Extraterritorial Rights
in Manchuria.
28,29
(i) Australia..
29
(j) The Vatican..
29
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CCNDITICNS..
..29
(a) The Cabinet...
.29
(b) The Navy....
.30
(c) Political Parties..
.30
(d) The Diet..
.31
IV. COURSE CF LEGIOLATICN.
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERE:
.32
VI. GENERAL ECCNCLIC AND PINANCIAL CONLITIONS...3S,33
(a) Forein Trade.
.32,33
(b) Financinl Trenas...
.33
VII. ACTIVITIS F AMERICA C.RCTAL NTERESTO.33,34
VIII.ACTIVITIES CF FORLIGN CCHHERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing te report.
IX.
LABOR.
.34
X.
MISCELLANECUS
Nothine to report.

=== Page 605 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Sinking of the U.S.S. Gunboat PANAY by Japanese
Airplanes.
On December 1 the Embassy brcught to the attention of
the Japanese Foreign Office a report received from the
Embassy at Nanking that the U.S.S. PANAY was at Nanking
and requested that the appropriate Japanese military and
naval authorities be promptly notified of this report.
On the basis of telegrams received fron. the Embassies
in Nanking and Hankow with regard to the jeopardizing by
the Japanese military forces of the U.S.S. Gunboat PANAY
and of American refugees on Standard Oil Company ships, the
Ambassador called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs on
the morning of December 13 and requested hin to take furth-
er steps to restrain Japanese military forces from continuing
the serious risks to American lives and property involved
in the dropping of shells in the vicinity of these ships.*
Later in the day it became known that the U.S.S.
PANAY and two Standard Oil Company ships had been sunk by
Japanese naval airplanes above Nanking on the Yangtze River
on the afternoon of December 12. Mr. Hirota called per-
sonally on Mr. Grew at the Chancery on the afternoon of
December 13 and expressed the prcfound apologies of the
Japanese Government for the sinking of the PANAY.
A high official of the Foreign Office called on the
Ambassador on the afternoon of Decenber 14 and delivered
a note from the Minister for Foreign Affairs which stated
that
* Embassy's despatch No. 2710, December 23, 1937.

=== Page 606 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
that the sinking of the PAnAY had been due to a mistake aris-
ing from low visibility; that the Japanese Government re-
gretted the incident most profoundly, desired to make sincere
apologies, would make indemnification and would appropriate-
ly deal with those respcn:itl. ror the i:cident; and that the
Japanese Government had already issued strict orders to the
authorities on the spot with a view to preventing a recurrence
of a similar incident.
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, the Ambassa-
dor called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the evening
of December 14 and read and delivered to him a signed note
of protest against the incident. The note outlined the cir-
cumstances attendant upon the sinking of the PANAY; referred
to previous acts of Japanese armed forces in China which had
violated the rights of the United States and had seriously
endangered the lives of American natiorals; and stated that
the American Government requested and expected of the Jap-
anese Government a formally recorded expression of regret,
an undertaking to make complete and conpruhensive indemni-
fications, and an assurance that definite end specific steps
had been taken which would ensure that hereafter American
naticnals, interests, and properties in China would not be
subject to attack by Japanese armed forces or unlawful inter-
ference by any Japanese authorities or forces whatsoever.*
At first the authorities of the Japanese Foreign, Navy,
and Wer Offices denied reports that after the bombing of
the PANAY the gunboat and its survivors had been machine
gunned by Japenese surface craft. Acting under the Depart.
ment's instructions, the Ambassador called on the Ministe"
for
Depertment's telegr  342, Lecember 14, 1937, un
Embassy's telueran 1. .1, Decearer 14, 1937.

=== Page 607 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
for Foreign Affairs on December 17 and left with him an aide-
mémoire stating that according to reports received by the
American Government, after the bombing of the PANAY the Amer:-
can gunboat and the survivors on board had h er machine
gunned both by Jepanese airplanes and by Japanese Army motor
boats. Mr. Grew seid to Mr. Hirote that these reports
disproved the allegation thet a mistake had been made in
bombing the PANAY. On December 20 the Foreign Office spokes-
man admitted that, according to new information just received,
a Japanese Army boat hed fired on the PANaY. However, the
Foreign Office spokesman added that it was inconceivable that
the Army boat had deliberately fired on the PANAY.
Three
days later the Foreign Office spokesman announced that ac-
cording to a report of the Japanese Army authorities, no
evidence had been found that the U.S.S. PANAY had been in-
tentionally shot at by Japanese soldiers.
On December 23 a meeting was held at the Embassy at
which were present the Vice Minister of the Nevy and several
Japenese Army, Navy, and Foreien Office officials and the
Ambessador, the Counselor of the Embassy, and the Embassy's
Naval and Military Attachés.
In n effort to prove the con-
tention that the bombing and subsequent macnine gunning of
the Amurican gunboat end other Ameri can ships and survivors
was unintentional, the Japanese officers resented evidence
based on deteiled reports of the Japanese nevel and military
officers sent to Nanking to investigate the circumstances
attendant upon the sinking of the PiNhi. The Ambessador
said that while the evidence in his possession tallied in
many respects with the Japanese reports it did not tally in
all respects. In addition, the Ambassador laid stress or
th..

=== Page 608 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
the serious results which coulj follow a repetiticn of the
PANAY incident or the occurrence of any incident enalogous
to it.*
On the evening of December 24 Mr. Hirota hended to Mr.
Grew the Japanese Government's roply to the Embassy's note
of protest deted Decomber 14. The substance of the reply
wes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had stated in
his note of December 14 thct the Japanese Government re-
gretted the occurrence most profoundly, desired to present
sincere apologies, would make indemnification for all the
losses and would deal appropriately with those responsible
for the incident; that the Japanese Navy had issued without
delay strict orders with a view to preventing a recurrence
of a "similar mistake, even at the sacrifice of a strategic
edvantage in attacking the Chinese troops"; and that rigid
orders had been issued to the Japanese military, neval, and
civil authorities in China to pay "greater attention than
hitherto" to observance of the instructions that had been
repeatedly given against infringement of, or unwarranted
interference with, the rights and interests of the United
States, and other third Powers. The Japenese note tated
further that although the incident had been due to a mistake,
the Commander of the Flying Force concerned had been imme-
diately removed from his post and that the staff members of
the Flcet end all others responsible had been duly dealt
with according to lew.**
In accordance with the Department's instructions, on
December 26 the Ambassador delivered to the Minister for
Foreign Affairs a note stating that the American Government
observed with satisfaction the pramptness with which the
Japene
* Embassy's despatch Nc. ? 9, Jonuer: C. '938.
**
Embassy's despatch Nc. ,?0, January 6, 1938.

=== Page 609 === (confidence 0.95)
-5
Jopaneso Government in its note of Lecumber lt hed edmitted
responsibility, expressed rugret, nd cffcred m nds, and
that the Government of the United States regarded the Japen-
esc Government's account of action tcken, es set forth in
tho Jepanese Government's not. of Lecember 4, es responsive
to the reguest made by the United tates Government in its
note of December 14. The .mericen note added that with re-
gard to the facts of the origins, ceuses, and circumstances
of the incident, the Japanese Government had indicated in its
note of December 24 the conclusion at which it had arrived
as a result of its investication, but that with regard to
these same metters the .merican Govcrnment relief on the
report of findings of the Court of Inquiry of the United States
Nivy, a copy of which had been comaunicated officially to the
Japanese Government.*
Nevs of the P.N.Y disaster was 1eceived both unofficialiy
and officielly in Japan with widespread and genuine expressiors
of regret. Numbers of ir.dividuals and delegations called at
the Embassy to express regret and sympathy and to offer
monetary donations tc mericans invclved in the sinking of
the PiNiY. The Ministry for Foreign ffairs, the Navy Min-
istry, and all the leading newspapers expressed satisfaction
over the settlement cf the P.NiY incident.**
(b) Representations made by the Embassy in Connection
with the Sinc-Japanese Conflict.
In addition to the representations on the PiNiY affair,
the Embassy made numerous other representations during the
month under review which have been fully reported to the
Department by telegraph and by despatch.***
An outline of
05
Denartment's toicgran 3/6. December 25, and Enbassy's
te ugram C83, D0cemler 20, 1937.
*x
Embassy's d espatch .c. 2:20, January 6, 1938.
***
Labassy's despatchos Nc. 2090, December 10, No. 27):3 T.
cember 23, 1937, and No. 2721, January 6, 1938.

=== Page 610 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
the more important representations is given below.
On December 1 the Embassy brought to the attention of
the Japanese Foreign Office a report received from the Embassy
at Nanking that about 40 American citizens remained at Nanking.
and requested that the appropriate Japanese military and nava!
authorities be promptly notified.
In accordance with the Department's instructions, on
December 5 the Embassy made renewed representations to the
Foreign Office on the subject of the Shanghai customs, stat-
ing that in view of the American Government's very real inter-
est in the matter and of its definite belief that that inter-
est entitled the merican Government to be consulted in re-
gard to any arrangement under contemplation and as to whether
such arrangement constituted adequate safeguarding of the in-
terests of the United States, it would be very much appreciated
if the Japanese Governmert would be so good as to ensure that
no arrangements would be reached with regard to the customs
administration without prior consultation with the American
Consul General at Shanghai. Pursuant to the Department's
instructions, on December 14 the Embassy aeain made represen-
tations to the Foreien Office on the Shan hai customs issue.*
Acting under the Lepartment's instructions, the Ambassa-
dor addressed to the Minister for Forei,n Affairs a note dated
December 23 reiterating the continued and great concern en-
tertained by the American Government in the preservation of
the administrative itegrity of the custo:s at Shanghai and
in the safeguarding of the customs revenues, and stating
that the Americn Government would :elcome certain specified
assurances from the Japanese Government with regard to the
custcms.
TeleEram to the Department from the Consulate General at
Shan hai No. 1122, December 9, Department's telegram No. 334.
December 12 and mbassy's telegram No. 632, December 14,
1937.

=== Page 611 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
customs.* In accordance with further instructions received
fro the Department, the Ambassador called on the Vice Lin-
ister for F reign Affairs on Lecember 26, renewed in detail
and with emphasis the previous representation made to the
Minister ior Foreign Affairs o.. the customs issue, and de-
livered a signed ote which urged pon the Japanese Govern-
ment the importance of neitner taking action nor countenancing
action by the Japenese military or other authorities which
would disrupt the Chinese customs service or impair the auth-
ority of the present customs administration. Ithout instruc-
tions from the Durartment, on this occasion the Abassador
said to the Vice Minister that in his own opinion the integrity
of the Chinese customs certeily 1epreserted one of the Ameri-
can interests envisaged in the final paragraph of the mbassy's
note of December 14 on the PiNAY i.cident, that this interest
should not be subject to unla.ful interference by any Japanese
authorities or forces whatsoever, and that in the light of
the Anerican Government's accentance of the Jupanese Govern
ment's note of December 24 as 'responsive" to the A erican
Government's desire, it vould be deplorable if interference
with that specific American interest should occur. Mr. Hori-
nouchi said that the matter was beine carefully studied and
he reiterated the previous general assurances of Mr. Hirota
that American interests ould be tiven full consideration.**
In reply to its representetions of November 19 concern-
ing the bombing by Japare se airplanes on November 12 of the
American Church Mission at usih, the Embassy received from
the
* Department's telegrams No. 339, Lecenber 12, and No. 366
December 21, 1937, and mbassy's telegram No. 675, Decem-
ber 3, 1937.
**
Department's telegram No. 375, Lecerber 5, and Embassy's
telegram No. 695, Lecember 29, 1937.

=== Page 612 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
the Foreien Office on Lecember 10 a note dated December 6
which stated that the incident was a result of a mistake
arising from low visibility and that the Japanese Govern-
ment expressed regret, vould do all in its power to prevent
the recurrence of such incident s, and was prepared to give
proper consideration with regard to the losses and damage
inflicted on the American property in question.*
ActinE under the Department's instructions, on Decem-
ber 1l the Embassy approached the Foreiin Office, referred
to previous representations made in connection with the
march of Japanese troops throuh the International Settlement
at Shanghai, and expressed the confident hope that certain
statements made by the Jan iese Consul ereral in Shanhai
and the attitude of the Japanese authorities there would put
an end to apprehensiors regarding future occurrences of a na-
ture likely to lcad to co.sequer.ces disturbing the preserva-
tion of order in the International Settlement. The Foreign
Cffice's reply, received by the Imbasy on December 21,
stated that the Japanese Goverrnert ad 'of course" no in-
tention which would inpair the acninistration or the auth-
ority of the Municipal Council and that in the maintenance
of peace and order in the International Settlement it was the
constant policy o1 the Japaese G vernment to coopeiate with
the I.ter tional Settlement authorities.**
On Lecember l6 the mbassy heard by telegram from Hankow
that arrangements were being made for a special train to
convey forei ners, mostly women and chiloren, to Canton or
Hon Kong during the early part of the week of December 19-25.
The
Emtassy's telegrams No. 55?, November 19, and No. 612,
December 10, 1937.
**
Telegram to the Department from the Consulate General at
Shanghai No. 1l12, December &, Department's teleeram No.
337, December 10, Erbassy's telegrams No. 616, December 11,
and No. 664, December 21, 1937.

=== Page 613 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
The following day the Ambassador brought this plan to the
direct attention of the Minister for Foreign ffairs and
asked that definite steps be taken to ensure the safety of
the foreigners on board the train. Mr. Hirota promised that
such steps would be taken immediately.*
On Lecember 15 the mbassy left with the Foreign Office
a memorandum quoting a proposal from the American Ambassa-
dor in Hankow to the effect that the Japanese authorities give
assurances that the Japanese forces would attack neither a
certain specified area in Hankow in which Consulates and
Embassy staffs were located, nor the river front adjoining
this area in which were concentrated naval vessels of Ameri-
can, British, French, and Italian nationality, as well as
foreign merchant ships. The mbassy's memorandum requested
that the Foreign Office take appropriate action in support
of Mr. Johnson's proposal.**
In reply to the Ambassador's request for instructions,
by a telegram dated December 27 the Department instructed
him to inform the Japanese Government that while the Ameri-
can Government cla imed absolute freedom for its ships to move
and trade on the Yangtze River, the American Government looked
to the Japanese authorities to cive prior warning in the event
of any area on the Yangtze River becoming, through steps taken
by the Japanese authorities, a danger area. These instruc-
tions were carried out by the Ambassador on December 28.***
In reply to the Embassy's protest of Cctober 8 against
the Japanese aerial bombing on September 24 of the Ida Kahn
Women's
*
Telegram from the Embassy at Hankow, December 15, 4 p.m.,
and the Embassy's telegram No. 648, December 17, 1937.
**
Telegram from the Embassy at Hankow, No. 33, December 13,
Department's telegram No. 367, December 21 and Embassy's
telegram No. 672, December 23, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegrams No. 682, December 26, and No. 690,
December 28, and Department's telegram No. 380, Decem-
ber 27, 1937.

=== Page 614 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
Women's and Children's Hospital belonging to the Women's
Foreign Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal Mission
at Nanchang, the Embassy received a communication from the
Foreign Office on December 28 to the effect that the bom ing
was a mistake, that the Japanese Government expressed sincere
regret, and that rigid instructions had been issued with a
view to preventing the recurrence of such incidents.*
On the basis of information received through Shanghai
from the Embassy at Hankow, the Embassy addressed a memoran-
 dum to the Foreign Office on December 29 requesting that the
appropriate Japanese authorities take the necessary steps
to safeguard the refugees in and properties of the Southern
Presbyterian Mission at Hsuchow and stating that the auth-
orities of the Mission had suggested that the buildings of
the Mission be distinguished by white flags with a blue cross
in the center. On December 30 the Forein Office informed
the Embassy that the Japanese military and naval authorities
had agreed to respect such American property at Hsuchow as was
marked with "white flaes with a blue cross in the center."
(c) Salmon Fishing in Alaskan Waters.
The Embassy received on December 22 the Foreign Office's
STROIAL
reply to its memorandum and aide-mémoire of November 24
which urged that the Japanese Gov-rnment take early and ef-
fective action to prevent the taking by Japenese vessels of
salmon in Bristol Bay and other offshore salmon fishing areas
of Alaska.** The Japanese note stated that the Japanese Gov-
ernment believed firmly in the justice of its contention that
so long as salmon fishing was carried on on the high seas,
such
Embassy's telegrams Nc. 457, October 8, No. 692, Decem-
ber 28, and Department's telegram No. 332, December 7,1937.
**
Department's telegrams No. 307, November 19, and No. 309,
November 20, 1937.

=== Page 615 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
such fishing could not warrantably he subjected to restric-
tion by another Power; that a three-year project was being
undertaken by means of a Japanese Government experimental
STNNNNOAL
vessel to investigate the degree to which the resources of
the high seas were capable of being developed; that it was
believed that such official investigations could not proper-
ly be made the grounds for controversy; but that neverthe-
less in the light of the views of the American Government
and from the broad viewpoint of relations between Japan
and the United States the Japanese Government would for the
time being on its own initiative suspend the above-mentioned
investigations.*
(a) American Extraterritorial Rights in Manchuria.
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, the Ambass-
ador addressed a note to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on
December 1 referring to reports that on November 6 a treaty
had been signed by Japan and "Manchukuo" ending Japanese
extraterritorial rights in Manchuria, that on this account
there had been issued a manifesto in regard to the extraterri-
torial rights of foreigners other than Japanese in Manchuria,
and that the Harbin branch of the National City Bank of New
York had received a letter from the Department of Economics
at Hsinking which stated that a recently promulgated law
concerning foreign juridical persons "naturally" applied to
all foreign firms and requested that preparation be made to
register and to appoint a representative in aecordance with
the law. Pointing out that the extraterritorial rights of
American
Embassy's telegram No. 669, December 22 and Embassy's
despatch No. 2717, December 23, 1937.

=== Page 616 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
American nationals in Manchuria were granted by treaty
between the United States and China and that the American
Government considered the law under reference as inappli-
cable to American nationals and firms, the Ambassador's
note stated that his Government was impelled to register
emphatic objection to any attempt by the authorities of
Manchuria to exercise jurisdiction over American nationals
and to make full reservation in regard to the treaty rights
of the United States and its citizens. The note concluded
with the statement that the Japanese Government was being
addressed on this matter in view of the relationship between
the Japanese Government and the authorities in Manchuria.*
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.
(1) Capture of Nanking and Other Cities in the
Shanghai-Nanking Area.
The Japanese forces continued their rapid advance against
Nanking. After several days of fighting ardund the city, in
which the Chinese resistance was described as "stubborn" by
the Japanese news agency, Domei, Japanese troops took possess-
ion of the capital on December 14. Meanwhile, according to
an International News Service despatch from Nanking deted
December 7, General Chiang Kai-shek had on that day fled by
airplane from Nanking to Hankow, accompanied by his wife and
Mr. Donald, his adviser, eluding the Japanese planes which
pursued him. The Japanese Embassy in Nenking was re-opened
on December 18 with the return from Shenghai of the Counselor,
Mr.
* Department's telegram No. 319, November 28, and Embassy's
telegram No. 585, December 2, and Embassy's despatch
No. 2689, December 9, 1937.

=== Page 617 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
Mr. Shinrokuro Hidaka. According to Domei, a "Peace Mainte-
nance Commission" was inaugurated in Nanking on December 23
with a platform based on opposition to communism, severance
of relations with General Chiang Kai-shek's National Govern-
ment, and a policy of friendship toward Japan.
On December 2l Japanese forces operating on the north-
ern bank of the Yangtze River captured Chuhsien, on the
Tientsin-Pukow Railway. Three days later Japanese units
occupied the city of Hangchow, capital of Chekiang Province,
apparently without resistance on the part of the Chinese.
The Japanese took possession of Tienchang on December 26.
(2) Japanese Military Operations in Shantung
Province.
Having secured cor.trol of Shantung Province north of the
Yellow River, Japanese units proceeded south of the River and,
meeting with little Chinese opposition, on December 26 took
possession of Tsinan, capital of the Province and headquarters
of General ian Fu-chu's forces.
Following the destruction by Chinese of Japanese-owned
cotton mills in Tsingtao, on December 23 the Japanese military
h adquarters in Tientsin issued a comnuniqué to the effect
that the Japarese forces were prepered to iflict thorough-
going chastisement on the Chinese for their breach of faith
and intended to demand appropriate compensation for Japanese
property destroyed. Vice Admiral Hasegawa, Commander-in-Chief
of the Japanese Fleet in China waters, made an announcement
on December 26 that Tsingtao would be included in the zone of
Japanese "naval interruption of msritime traffic established
on September 5.
(3)

=== Page 618 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
(3) Activities of the Japanese Air Forces.
Japanese Navy and Army airplanes conducted raids through-
out China during the month, bombing points in North, Central,
and South China, including Canton. Domei reported that in
the most outstanding long distance flight yet made by the
Japanese, naval planes had on Lecenber 4 bombed the airdrome
at Lanchow, capital of Kansu Province, and that on December 30
Japanese naval planes had bombed and destroyed the airdrome
at Sianfu, Shansi Province. The navy section of the Imperial
Headquarters announced that durine December Japanese naval
planes had destroyed 123 enemy planes and that since the out-
break of the Sino-Japanese hostilities they had destroyed
from 525 to 575 Chinese planes. According to the announce-
ment, up to Lecember 31 only 63 Japanese naval planes had been
1ost.
(4) Official Japanese Statements.
I a statement setting forth the views of the Japanese
Government on the situation created by the occuration of
Nanking, Premier Konoye declared on December 14 that there
was no longer any substance behind the claim of the Nanking
Governmert to be the central régime cf China; that the régime
was swiftly being reduced to . thing more than a war macnine;
that if a new régime should arise, Japan would have no choice
but to consider concrete measures for co-existence and co-
prosperity with it; that no régime in China could succeed
excepting on & pro-Japanese foundation; that cnly through
the emergence of such a pro-Japenese China could the interests
of European Powers and of the United States in the Far East
be guaranteed; and that in order to prevent a recurrence of
such a tragedy as the present China incident, Japan must not
hesitate

=== Page 619 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
hesitate "to perform a major operation". Also apropos of
the capture of Nanking, both the War Minister and the military
section of the Imperial Headquarters announced that Japan
must make redoubled efforts for the achievement of its ob-
jectiis. in China and thet the termination of hostilities
must be regerded as a matter for the remote future. In a
statement on December 17 regarding the formal entry of Jap-
anese troops into Nanking, Vice Admiral Hasegawa, Commander
in-Chief of the Japanese Naval Forces in China waters, asserted
that the Japanese troops, not contented with the capture of
Nanking, were determined to continue the fight until the "aims
of the campaign" had been completely attained. None of the
officials mentioned gave any definite incication of what
"the aims of the campaign" were.
(5) Autonomous Régimes in China Sponsored
by the Japanese.
Additional evidence came
to liht during the month under
review concernine the manner in which Japan evidently pro-
posed to establish the lon desired control over parts of
China, while refraining ostensibly from infringing on China's
territorial integrity.
This evidence
consisted in the forma-
tion under Japanese pressure of several pro-Japanese régimes
in portions of China which had been subjugated by the invad-
ing forces of the Japanese. The inauguration of a "Peace
Maintenance Commission" in Nanking has been mentioned. It
was reported that in Januery 1938 an autonomous régime would
be founded in Nanking. The so-called "Provisional Government
of China" was organized in Peiping on Decembef 14 with such
Chinese as the Japanese military were able to persuade to
become officials. It was stated that the principles of the
new

=== Page 620 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
new régime would be cooperation among Chine, Japan, and
"Manchukuo" for united deferse against communism, opposition
to the Kuomintane, and Sino-Japanese economic collaboration.
According to Domei, the East Hopei Autonomous Government dis-
solved itself and joined with the Provisional Government at
Peiping in view of the similarity of the platforms of the
two bodies. On New Year's Eve the "leaders" of the Peiping
régime issued a statement urging the Japanese Government and
people to extend "magnanimous support end sympathy" in re-
constructing Chinese administration. Sir Robert Craigie
informed Mr. Grew that the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
had stated categorically to him on December 17 that the Japan-
ese Government had no present intention of recognizing the
so-celled "provisional government" of China.*
The "Federated Autonomous Govomment of Mongolia" was
installed on December & with Prince Yun as Chairmen and Prince
Teh as Vice Chairman and Fresident of the Political Council.
On December 10, according to Donui, there was inaugureted at
Teiyuan the "Shansi Autonomous Government," in accordonce with
"the wish of e million inhabit nts of the Prevince." A mani-
festo issued by the Shanci régime pledged elimination of the
influence of the Kuomintang and cf the Chinese Army in Shansi
Province, friendly cooperation with Japan and "Manchukuo",
and firm opposition to comnunism. A week later it was re-
ported that the new Shansi régime had decided to merge with
the Provisicral Government of China at Peiping.
(6) Japanese Economic Plans in Chine.
Luring the month the Cebii.et approved a program for ec-
onomic development of North Chins and of the Shenghai area
which had been a dopted by the North Chine Measures Committee
consisting
Embessy's telegram No. 654, December 18, 1937.

=== Page 621 === (confidence 0.97)
-17-
consisting of officials of the Plcnning Board, the Army, the
Navy, the Ministries of Finance and Foreign Affairs, and
the Manchurian Affairs Burcau. According to the Japenese
newspapers, this plan includes the following points: North
China is to be developec economicslly in close cooperetion
with the Provisicrel Government of Chine on the basis of
Sino-Jepnesc co-existence and co-prosperity; a company is
to be established to plan and control enterprises; no com-
petition of capital is to be recognized in public utility
cntcrprises such as railways, communications, port, harbor,
and river improvements, road building, and mining; capitel-
ists may, however, operate freely in the development of raw
cotton, wool, spinning, and the selt industry, but ppropriate
control will be established lest such cepitalists "fall into
vicious competition"; as a provisional m asure the unterprises
already Jaunched ir North Chine by the South Manchurie Rail-
way Company and the North Chin Dovelopment Compeny shall be
recognized but ne enturpiises shall be crrried out under
their nemes; nd at Shan h-i uapan shell cooperete with
the Chinese in their pl'n for th conomic rehabilitation
of the city. The JAPA TIMEs of December 17 stated that
this economic progrn c llod fer the introducticn of foreign
c'pit-l for the developnent of Morth Chi on the besis of
the "Open Door" policy for all foruin countries.
A Domci despatch fron K lean reported that on the cccasion
of the first shipment to J: pen of iron ore from the Lungyen
mine, a ceremony had been held in Kalgen "in celebration of
the first mnterial gran from the recent punitive campaign of
the Japanece nation". This news agency steted thet between
500,000 nd 700,000 tons of iror cre ould re sent to Japen
from the Kalgen district by the end of the year 1938.
(b)

=== Page 622 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
(b) Great Britain.
(1) Japanese Attacks on British Naval Vessels
LADYBIRD AND BEE
Reports were received by the British Embassy that the
British naval vessels LADYBIRD and BEE, as well as British
merchant vessels, all in the vicinity of Wuhu on the Yangtze
River, had on December 12 been attacked by Japanese machine
guns and field pieces; that the LADYBIRD had suffered four
direct hits with one seaman killed, another seaman seriously
wounded, and several men receiving minor injuries, including
the flag captain, and that the BEE had been fired upon but
with no damage resulting. On December 13 the British Ambassa-
dor protested personally in the most emphatic manner to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs against these attacks, stating
that "British public orinion was bound to take a most serious
view of this incident" and urging that the Japanese Govern-
ment make a suitable apology as soon as possible. Mr. Hirota
called in person on Sir Robert Craigie on the afternoon of
December 14 and expressed apology and regrets on behalf of
the Japanese Government.
On December 14 the British Ambassador addressed to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs a letter to the effect that the
Japanese order to fire on all ships moving on the Yangtze
appeared still to be in force and that furthermore the guns
of Japanese batteries were still trained pointblank on the
LADYBIRD and the BEE.
Sir Robert Craigie stated with regard
to the first point that it appeared to him to disclose on the
part of the responsible Japanese military authorities in
China a regrettable disregard for the consequences of their
action of December 12, and with regard to the second point
that

=== Page 623 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
that he emphatically protested and requested that immediate
instructions be sent to the Japanese commander at Wuhu to
desist from "this threatening and wholly unnecessary action."
Acting under instructions received from his Government,
on December 16 the British Ambessador addressed to the Minister
for Foreign Affairs a note protesting against the attacks made
by Japanese aircraft and land forces on the British warships
LADYBIRD and BEE and on British merchant vessels at Wuhu and
near Nanking on December 12. The note expressed the satis-
faction of the British Government at having received the note
of the Minister for Foreign Affairs dated December l4, which
offered the profound apology of the Japanese Government for
the attacks on the British vessels, stated that measures had
been immediately taken to prevent the reourrence of such in-
would
cidents, and added that the Japanese Government/deal suitably
with those responsible for the incidents and would pay the
necessary compensation. In addition, the British note re-
quested that an ar surance be given that all that had been
said in the Japanese note applied equally to Japanese attacks
on British merchant vessels. In conclusion, the British
Government asked to be informed what measures had actually
been taken of a character which would put a definite stop to
these incidents.*
On December 18 the British Embassy re-
ceived the Foreign Office's provisional reply, which stated
that the assurances given in the Foreign Cffice's note of
December 14 with regard to British warships were equally ap-
plicable to the British merchant vessels which were attacked
in similar circumstances on December 12.
The
Embassy's telegram No. 642, December 16, 1937.

=== Page 624 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
The British Ambassador received on December 28 the final
reply of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the formal British
representations of December 16. The reply stated that the
attacks upon British vessels had been a mistake; that as
soon as the vessels were known to be British, Japanese bomb-
ing and military units had ceased firing and offered medical
assistance; that with reference to the reported statement of
a Japanese officer that he had received orders to fire on
all vessels on the Yangtze River, the orders issued referred
only to veswels used by the Chinese; that in order to ensure
egainst recurrence of similar incidents those responsible
were being dealt with according to law; and that further to
guard against recurrence of such incidents greater caution
would be exercised in areas where there were vessels of third
Powers even if it should entail permitting Chinese forces to
escape.* Pursuant to instructions received from the British
Government, on December 31 Sir Robert Craigie addressed to
Mr. Hirota a note in reply, the substance of which was that
the British Government noted with satisfaction that the
Japanese Government had taken or was prepered to take the
necessary measures to deal suitably with the officers res-
ponsible for the incidents and to prevent any repetition.
The British note ended by stating that the details of the
Japanese Government's measures and their effective applica-
tion might in the opinion of the British Government suitably
form the subject of further conversations in the course of
which the British Government did not doubt that it would be
informed of actual steps decided upon.
(2)
Embassy's telegram No. 697, December 30, 1937.

=== Page 625 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
(2) Representations Made by the British Govern-
ment in Tokyo in Connection with the Sino-
Japanese Conflict.
There follows a summary of the more important representa-
tions made by the British Embassy in Tokyo in mattersarising
out of the Sino-Japanese conflict.*
On December 3 Sir Robert Craigie addressed to Mr. Hirota
an informal letter strongly urging the desirability of taking:
no action vis-à-vis the Customs Commissioner in Shanghai until
an understanding on the Shanghai customs issue had been reached
with the British, American, and French representatives, and
protesting vigorously against the proposal of the Japanese
Consul General in Shanghai that the customs revenues should
be deposited with the Yokohama Specie Bank as a condition
precedent to any discussion with represemtatives of the in-
terested Powers.** The British Embassy made other repre-
sentations regarding Shanghai, including the following: the
reported intention of the Japanese authorities in Shanghai
to disrupt the present financial organization; the decision
of the Japanese authorities to place a censor in the Chinese
Telegraph Office in Shanghai; casualties suffered by the
British forces in Shanghai as a result of the recent hostili-
ties there; the plan to send 'Japarese troops thr、ugh the
International and French Settlements on a demonstration
march; and the "unrestrained interference" of the Japanese
military authorities in the affairs of the Municihal Adinis-
tration of Shanghai.
In accordance with instructions received from his Gov-
ernment, on December 3 the British Ambassador addressed a
note
Embassy's despatches No. 2690, December 10, No. 2708,
December 23, 1937, and No. 2721, January 6, 1938.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 594, December 4, 1937.

=== Page 626 === (confidence 0.98)
-22-
note to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on December 3 request-
ing that instructions be sent to the Japanese military auth-
orities in the Nanking area to afford the necessary protection
to British subjects and to British property in Nanking.
On December 18 the British Embassy made representations
to the Foreign Office requesting that the Japanese authorities
give assurances that the Japanese forces would attack neither
a certain specified area in Hankow in which Consulates and
Embassy staffs were located,nor the river front adjoining
this area in which were stationed naval vessels of British,
Americen, French, and Italian nationality, as well as for-
eign merchant ships.*
The British Ambassador addressed a formal note to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs on December 22 protesting against
the alleged serious violation on December ll of the territorial
waters and of the territory itself of Hong Kong by a Japanese
destroyer and requesting that the British Government be in-
formed of the nature of the disciplinary action which had been
teken against those responsible for the incident.**
Cn December 28 Sir Robert Craigieleft with Mr. Hirota
a memorandum stating that the British Government looked to
the Japenese Government to give prior warning in the event
of any area on the Yangtze River becoming a danger area, and
to indicate to the British Government the zones in which
British nationals and shiping could be concentrated under
e guarantee of safety. The British note reminded the Japan-
ese Government that the British Government claimed absolute
freedom for its ships to move and trade freely on the river.***
(3)
★
Embassy's telegram Ns. 672, December 23, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 673, December 23, 1937.
***
Embassy's telegrams No. 682, December 26, and Nc. 690,
December 28, 1937.

=== Page 627 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
(3) Anti-British Feeling in Japan.
Anti-British feeling in Japan was somewhat abated during
the month by expressions of regret over the incident involv-
ing the British naval vessels LADYBIRD and BEE. However, the
Japanese continued to criticize Great Britain for its alleged-
ly un-neutral action in supplying arms and munitions to China,
for the "unsympathetic attitude" of the British authorities
in Chira, and for what the Japanese chose to call Great
Britain's policy of befriending and encouraging China and of
obstructing Japan in its campaign to "establish lasting peace
in the Far East."
(c) Soviet Russia.
Japanese-Soviet Russian relations, in which danger is al-
ways latent, were ruffled on the surface by three controver-
sies: the fisheries issue, the continued detention by Soviet
authorities of seven Japanese subjects, and the forced migration
into remote parts of the Soviet Union of a large number of
Korean residents of the Maritime Provinces.
Despite Japan's insistence that the Soviet Government
reconsider its attitude and agree tc sign a new fisheries
convention to replace the convention of l928, the Soviet
Union retused to come to terms. A comnittee of members of
the Upper and Lower Houses called on the Minister for For-
eign Affairs on December & and presented to him a resolution
to the effect that the Soviet attitude toward a new fisher-
ies convention could not be overlooked from the stendpoint
of international good faith and protection of Japan's rights
and interests. Since the term of duration of the Japanese-
Soviet

=== Page 628 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
Soviet fishery convention signed on January 23, l928, and
prolonged by the protocol of December 28, 1936, was due to
come to an end on December 31, 1937, the two governments
signed a protocol on December 29, 1937, providing that the
convention of 1928 shall remain in force until December 31,
l938. The Russian Waters Fishing Guild, composed of firms
engaged in fishing off Kamchetka, issued a statement through
Domei on December 30 to the effect that the Guild was not
at all satisfied with "such a provisional settlenent achieved
through patchwork" and was resolved to do everything possible
to obtain a new agreement which would respect Japan's rights
and interests accruing from the Portsmouth Treaty.
On December 17 the Foreign Office handed to the Soviet
Embassy in Tokyo a memorandum protesting against the con-
tinuous detention since March 27, 1937, of seven Japanese
subjects on churges of espionage and other "grave offenses"
against the Soviet Union. The Japanese memorandum was ac-
companied by a request for "a responsible an swer" at the
earliest possible date.
Mr. Kawai, the Foreign Office spokesman, issued a state-
ment on Lecember 6 concerning the Soviet Government's dis-
regard of Japan's repeated protests against the Soviet policy
of forcing Koreans living in the Maritime Frovince to migrate
to distant parts of the Soviet Union. Mr. Kawai said that
Japan could not recognize the Soviet contention thet the Koreans
were Soviet citizens, and that unless the Mosccw authorities
modified their attitude on the issue the Japanese Government
would be obliged to take what it deemed to be apprcpriate
measures.
(a)

=== Page 629 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
(d) Italy.
According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of December 12, on
the evening of December ll the Counselor of the Italian Em-
bassy called at the Foreign Office and "had the honor of
especially notifying" the Japanese Government of Italy's
formal withdrawal from the League of Nations. It was said
that the Italian Counselor's call at the Foreign Office co-
incided precisely with the time of Italy's notificaticn to
the League.
A Domei despatch from Rome dated December 2l reported
that Premier Mussolini had on that day given full approval
of Japan's current action in China in the course of a con-
versation with Mr. Seigo Nakano, "unofficial Japanese envoy"
to Italy.
A subsequent despatch of this news agency from
Rome stated that according to an official announcement of
the Italian Government made on December 25, Premier Mussolini
had decided to send shortly to Japan a special commission in-
cluding representatives of the Facist Government, Army and
Navy, with the view to consolidating the Rome-Berlin-Tokyo
axis.
(e) Germany.
Notwithstanding press predictions, Germany's contemplated
de jure recognition of "anchukuo" did not materialize during
the month.*
In a press conference on December 6, the Foreign Office
spokesman asserted that Japan had not been approached by any
country to use its good offices for mediation in the Sino-
Japanese conflict, and denied knowledge of the reported ac-
tivities looking toward mediation of the German Ambassador
to China, Dr. Trautmann.
(f)
Embassy's despatch No. 2691, December 10, and Monthly
Report for November, Section II (c).

=== Page 630 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
(r) Spain.
The Japanese Government formally extended recognition
to the Franco Government of Spain on December 1 and recognized
Mr. F. J. del Castillio as Spanish Chargé d'affaires in Tokyo.
On this occasion the Foreign Office spokesman issued the
following statement:
"Although unfortunately the internecine war
in Spain has not yet come to an end, the extension
of formal recognition to the Government under Gen-
eral Franco is in conformity with the realities of
the situation, since that Government not only controls
more than a half of the territory of Spain and all of
the colonies, tut has built up a solid foundation as
a government. The administrative and judicial functions
are being carried on normally in the occupied areas in
sharp contrast to the chaotic and anarchical conditions
prevailing in Valencia and Barcelona.
"That the Spanish disturbance originated as a
result of the activities of the People's Front created
through the Comintern's intrigues and machinations is
clear in the light of the circumstances surrounding
its outbreak. General Franco has been fighting for
the express purpose of expelli.g Communism and Anarchism
since July last year, when the outbreak began there,
and it is generally known that both Germany and Italy,
united in the common aim of guarding against the Comin-
tern, extended recognition to the Franco Government in
November last year.
"It is a matter for sincere congratulation that
through the present recegnition, friendly relations have
been established between our country and the Franco
Government with which we are in agreement regarding
the policy to be pursued toward the Comintern. Simul-
taneously we find deep significance in this recognition,
as being certain to promote the intimate relations now
existing between Japan, Germany, and Italy."
Two days later a ceremony at which the fleg of the Franco
Government was hoisted was held at the Spanish Legation and
was attended by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the
German, Italian, and "Manchukuo" Ambassadors.
On

=== Page 631 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
On December 2, through an exchange of notes at the
Japanese Foreign Office by the "Manchukuo" Ambassador and the
Spanish Chargé d'ffaires, the "anchukuo" Government and the
Franco Government of Spein formally recognized each other.
(g) "Manchukuo".
The following revised agreement dated December 1 con-
cerning rights of the Japanese military forces in "Manchukuo"
territory was signed by General Chang Ching-hui, Premier of
"Manchukuo", and General Uyede, Japanese Ambassador to
"Manchukuo" and Commander of the Kwantung Army:
Article 1. The "Manchukuo" Government, in
formulating orders and ordinances with regerd to
its army, will endeavor to let the Japanese army
take fuli advartage of these regulations also.
If necessaryk it will consider the regulations
binding the Japanese army as binding equally on
those subject to "Manchukuo" law. Details of the en-
forcement of such a step will be decided on efter
further consultations.
Article 2. The Manchukuo Government will make
it possible for the Japanese military police to apply
Manchukuo laws to those under the jurisdiction of the
Manchukuo Government and duly endorse its military,
judicial and administrative policing rights in order
to carry out its duty of safeguarding the safety and
welfare of the Japane se army in any specified zone
and to unsure peace and order there.
The action of the Japanese as specified above
shall be ecually as valid as the policing of the proper
organs of the Manchukuo Government.
If, in accordance with the fundamental principle
of common defense, Japanese and Manchukuo organs find
it necessary to take concerted action to prevent the
spread of Communism in Manchukuo, the Japanese organs
shall be empowered to take the steps necessary for
carrying out the control and co-ordinated action d ecided
on.
Article 3. The Japan-Manchukuo accord regarding
general judicial and police administration shall be
considered valid in regard to the cooperation of the
military, judiciel and police administrations of the
two countries.
Article 4.

=== Page 632 === (confidence 0.98)
-28-
Article 4. For the enforcement of this agreement
in time of war or emergency, further consultations will
be held between the Japanese and Manchukuo officials.
(h) France
(1) Representations Made by the French Embassy
in Connection with the Sino-Japanese Conflict.
On December 6 the French Ambassador made further rep-
resentations to the Foreign Office concerning the Shanghai
customs issue, stating that according to information recent-
ly obtained the Japanese authorities at Shanghai persisted
in wishing to negotiete with the local office of the Chinese
customs there, contrary to the previous arrangement made by
the Japanese authorities with the representatives of the
Powers interested in this question.*
The French Ambassador made representations to the Foreign
Office on December 18 requesting assurance that the French
Concession in Hankow and French shipping in the Hankow area
would be free of attack by Japanese forces.**
(2) French Extraterritorial Rights in Manchuria.
By a note dated December 6, the French Ambassador brought
to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs the fact
that the French Consul at Mukden had informed the authorities
at Hsinking that in the oninion of the French Government the
extraterritorial rights enjoyed by French citizens in Man-
churia by virtue of treaties remained intact and could not
be abolished by the Japanese-Manchukuo Treaty of November 6,
1937. The French Ambassador's note added that his Govern-
ment
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2690, December 10, 1937.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 672, December 23, and Embassy's
despatch No. 2721, January 6, 1938.

=== Page 633 === (confidence 1.00)
-29-
ment could not admit that international agreements might be
abrogated in so simple a manner, inasmuch as the authorities
of "Manchukuo" could by no means separate themselves from
such agreements by a unilateral decision.*
(i) Australia.
A Japanese-Australian shipping conference concerned
with the ratio of Australian wool shipments carried by
Australian and Japanese ships and with other issues was con-
vened on December 1 but no decisions were reached before
the close of the month.
(j) The Vatican.
On December 3 the Pope appointed as Archbishop of Tokyo
the Reverend Peter Tatsuo Doi, the first Japane se to hold
the position of Archbishep in Japan.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITICNS.
(a) The Cabinet.
Dr. Eiichi Baba, the Home Minister, tendered his resig-
nation on December 13, giving illness as the reason for this
step. (Dr. Baba died on December 21, 1937). Admiral Nobumasa
Suyetsugu, well-known chauvinist, former Commander-in-Chief
of the Combined Fleet, and former member of the Supreme War
Council, was appointed Home Minister on December 15. Admiral
Suyetsugu, one of whose first official acts as Home Minister
was to direct the arrest of numerous left wing suspects,
issued a statement on December 22 that nothing tainted with
communism could be tolerated in Japan at the present critical
time.
(b)
* Embassy's despatch No. 2689, December 9, 1937.

=== Page 634 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
(b) The Navy.
On December 1 Admiral Osami Nagano, Commander-in-Chief
of the Combined Fleet and of the First Fleet, was appointed
a member of the Supreme War Council and Vice Admiral Zengo
Yoshida, Commander-in-Chief of the Second Fleet, was appointed
to succeed Admiral Nagano as Commander of the Combined Fleet
and of th First Fleet.
The naval press section of the Imperial Headquarters
announced on December 1 that the Navy had lost 835 men in
China since the beginnirg of the hostilities.
(c) Political Parties.
The press reported a movement among the members of the
Minseito and the Seiyukai, the twc major parties in the
House of Representatives, tc dissolve these parties and form
a new joint party in view of the resert emergency situation.
In addition, a movement for dissoluti n of the Shakai Taishuto
(Social Mass Party) was reported to have been initiated by
members of this orgaiizatien. Cn December le Mr.Mitsuru
Toyama, Admiral Eisuke Yamamoto, and Prince Sanjo issued a
manifesto urging the amalgamat: on of all political groups in-
to a single Nationalint Party. The police arrested from 350
to 400 so-called "communists" on December 22, among them Mr.
Kanju Kato, a member of the House of Representatives and the
leader of the Shakai Taishuto. Subsequently, the Home Office
issued an order dissolving the Japan Proletariat Party and
the National Council of Labor Unions of Japan.
At the close of the month the collapse of party politics
in Japan appeared to be almost complete.*
(a)
* Embassy's despatch No. 2722, January 6, 1938.

=== Page 635 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
(a) The Diet.
The 73rd Session of the Diet was formally opened by
the Emperor on December 26 with the reading of an Imperial
Rescript, Domei's translation of which follows:
"In opening the Imperial Diet, We take the
opportunity to inform the members of the House of
Peers and the House of Representatives that We are
g
greatly gratified to see the relations between Japan
and its treaty Powers growing in friendship and cor-
diality.
"Our officers and men are winning every battle,
enhancing their military prestige both at home and
abroad, while Our nation is solidly uniting 'behind
the rifle. in overcoming difficulties attending the
current situation.
"We are confident of attaining Our ultimate ob-
jective, by depending on the unswerving loyalty and
devotion of Our whole nation.
"We have ordered the Ministers of State to
submit to the Imperial Diet the ordinary budget for
1938 and the extraordinary military budget, together
with various legislative bills. In view of the
gravity of the situation, gentlemen, we hope that
you will cooperate in deliberating on those bills
and that you will do your share in the conduct of State
affairs."
On the following day co ies of the 1938-39 draft budget,
as approved by the Cabinet, which calls for the expenditure
of Y 2,867 ,796,000, exclusive of the special China Incident
budget, were distributed to members of both Houses of the
Diet.
The Diet was adjourned on December 27 for the customary
New Year recess until January 20.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V.

=== Page 636 === (confidence 0.98)
-32-
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
The Finance Ministry decided on December 10 to widen
the scope of the existing foreign exchange control regula-
tions as follows: Government permits shall be required for
all transactions in excess of y 50,000 involving the sale of
foreign securities and all other property abroad; for the
purchase of land or vessels for more than ¥ 50,000 a year;
for the purchase of mining, timbering, or industrial rights
in excess of y 50,000 a year; for the offering of securities
for debts incurred by Japanese abroad; for remittances abroad
in payment of imports without bills of exchange in excess
of ¥100 a month (formerly y 1,000 a month); for remittances
for travelling expenses exceeding 1,000 yen a month (formerly
Y 5,000 a month); and for remittances abroad of insurance
money, excepting premiums for re-insurance and maritime
insurance.*
Toward the end of the month the Finance Ministry issued
¥300,oo0,oo0 worth of new national bonds in connection with
the Sino-Japanese incident.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CO.DITIONS.
(a) Foreign Trade.
Japanese exports for December were Y 210,244,000 and
imports into Japan were Y 208,424,000, as compared with Nov
ember exports of Yen 252,982,000 and November imports of
¥ 210,O31,000. Thus, there was a favoreble balance of trade
of only y 1,820,000 as compared with a favorable balance for
November of ¥ 42,951,000.**
According
* Embassy's telegram No. 639, December 15, 1937.
**Data furnished by Commercial Attaché.

=== Page 637 === (confidence 0.98)
-33-
According to a report of the Finence Ministry as quoted
by Lomei, Japan's total foreign trade for the period Janu-
ary 1 to December 20, 1937, was greater than it had been for
the corresponding period in any previous year, amounting to
¥ 7,028,049,000, .hich represented an increase of 28.8 per
cent cver the same pericd for 1936.
(b) Financial Trerds.
The money merxet w s extremely casy; the stock market,
which had been dull for uverel months, became active owing
to the successful milit ry operations in China, continued in-
dustrial activity, and the Government's decisicn against any
drastic increase in taxes; and the average yen rate was
$0.29125 as compared with 0.290875 for November.*
VII. ACTIVITIS OF AMERICAN CCMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
According te inrormetion furnished the Embassy on
by
Decomber 23/ir. Benjenin Kopf, General Manager of the Ford
Motor Company f Japan, during the month the Ford Company
agreed tc purchase one million yen worth of China incident
national bonds ir. return for which the Exchange Control Com-
mission promiced to permit the company to remit one million
yen immediately due the parent company in the United States
as dividends up to June 3), 1937, and to remit an addition-
al million yen to the parent company about January 1. The
Ford Company official steted that he had the promise of the
Exchange Control Commission that besides the amounts men-
tioned above the Commission would give consideration to
the transfer of approximately three million yen representing
dividonds
* Informetion furnished by Commercial Attaché.

=== Page 638 === (confidence 0.98)
-34-
dividends due the parent company for the six months onding
December 31, 1937.*
VIII. ACTIVITIES CF FCREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
According to investigations
by the Labor Section
of the Prefectural Police made public in December, there
have been only 20 ceses of labor disputes between capitalists
and employees since the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese hos-
tilities, es compared with over lo0 such disputes for the
period January 1 to April 30, 1937.
The press reported that a movement had been started
in Jap nese labor circles in favor of Japan's withdrawal
from the International Labor Conference in view of the reso-
lution condemning Japan's action in China passed shortly
after the outbreak of the Sino-Japenese conflict by the In-
ternetional Labor Union Luague, which is said to control
the delegates of the International Labor Conference.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.
- - - -
* Embassy's despatch Nc. 2729, January 7, 1936.

=== Page 639 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAN:S SENT TO T E DEPARTMENT
DURINC DECEMBER 1937
NU.
Date
Subject
ce. 1. 10 a.m.
Richardson's insurance policy.
5E5
Dec
a.
Extraterritoriality i snch-ria
583
D20 2,1m
Extraterrr orialicy Ir Yancauria
587
Dec. 2, 3 p.m.
American citizens in Nanking
539
Dee. 2, 1 p.m.
March of Japanese troops tnrcugh neutral
areas in Shanghai.
589
Dec. ?, i p.m.
March of Japanese troors through neutral
areas in Shanghai.
590
Dec. 5 a p.m.
Press reports of German recomitior of
Manchukuo.
591
Dec. 3. 3 p.m.
Mutual exchange of recogriti o; Manchukuo
and the Franco régime.
592
Dec. 3, 5 r.m.
Safe conduct for party leavin Hankow
by train Deccmber 10.
593
Dec. 4, 10 1..
Requisition for Dishursing officer
594
Dec. 4, 
Shunghan customs.
595
Dec.
De larat ion or war by Jepan.
596
Dec. 4, 1 r.m.
oreign jouns to Jaran
597
Dec. , 1'.m.
Pobourar alotment.
598
Dec. 5, 1 r.m
seorererce put eer the Government end
Imperice  adeuarters.
59?
Dec. 5, 8 p.m.
Chinese custor..
600
Dec. 7, 2 n..
acknowluirins American press comment.
601
Dec. 7, 7 v.m
Sinanci l csictance to Japan.
602
Dec. 7, 4 n.m.
Alaska Picbr ries.
603
Dec. 7, 5 p.m.
Withdrawal of recocnition of chines Govt.
604
Dec. 7, 7 p.m.
Suppose! loss of mail pouch.
605
Dec. 8, noon
Japanese voting in International Tele-
communication conferences.
305
Dec. 8, 6 p.m.
Feace negotiations, China-Jaran.
607
Dec. 8, 8 r.m.
Surposed loss of mail pouch.
606
Dec. 9, 4 p.m.
Japanes Army opinion regarding peace
settlement.
Dec. 9;.5 p.m.
Japanes bonhine at Wuhu.
610
Dec. 10, 11 a.m.
Wuhu bombine.
611
Dec. 10, 3 p.m.
American citizens in Nanking.

=== Page 640 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Nc.
Date
Subject
612
Dec. i0, 4 p.m.
American Church Mission
Wusih.
€13
Dec. 10, 5 p.m.
Evacuation of Nanking
614
Dec. 10, ( p.m.
Americans remaining in Nenking.
615
Den, 10, - p.m.
Mercn of Japanese troops through Internationa
Settlenent.
616
Deù
11, 3 p.m.
March of Japanese troons thrcugh Inter-
national Settlement.
617
Dec . 12, 6 p.m.
Grounded S.S. FRESIDENT ICVR.
618
Dec. L2, ? p.m.
Grounded S.S. PRESIDENT UCOV.R
619
Dec. 12, noon.
Danger to American ships near Nanking.
620
Dec. 13, ? p.m.
Grounded S.S. PRESIDENT Vh.
621
Dec. 73, 2 p.m.
From the Commercial Attache for commerce.
622
Dec. 13, 3 p.m.
Sinking of U.S.S. FANAY
623
Dec. 13, 5 p.m.
Press ban on PANAY sinking.
624
Dec. 13, 9 r.m.
FANAY incident.
625
Dec. 13. 2:45 p.m.
AAY incident.
626
Dec. 14 nocn
Attack on ritish ships LADVPIRn and PEE.
627
Dec. 14, 1 r.in.
Tapanese Id shipments to the United States.
628
Dec. 14, 4 p.m.
Japanese at cks on British ships.
629
Dec. 14, 5 p.m
Japanese troops in International Scttlement.
630
Dec. 14, 6 r.m.
FATAY inc ident.
631
vec. 14, C p.m.
FANAY incident.
632
Dec. 14, 10 9.m.
Shanghai customs.
633
Dec. 14, 11 p.m.
Japenese press opinions.
634
Dec. 15, noon
trictly confidential for the Secretary.
635
Dec. 15, 1 p.m.
IANAY incident.
636
Dec. 15 , 2 p.m.
Japanese imports of American cotton.
637
Dec. 15, 3 p.m.
FANAY incident.
638
Dec. 15, 4 p.m.
PANAY incident.
633
Dec. 15, 5 p.m.
Changes in Foreien Exchange Control.
640
Dec. 15, 6 p.m.
Our 635 should be marked confidential.
641
Dec. 15, 7 p.m.
Japanese interference with rescue work
at Hohsien.
642
Dec. 16, 11 a.m.
Japanese attacks on British ships.

=== Page 641 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
No.
Date
Subject
645
Dec. 16. 3 2.m.
Contract for language officers' tuition.
644
Dec. 16, 6 p.m.
Declaration of war by Jepan.
645
Dec. 16, 7 p.m.
PANAY ircident
- contributions.
640
Dec. 1. 8 p.m.
Ciphers.
647
Dec. 17, 1 p.m.
PANAY
incident.
648
Ded. 17, 2 F.m.
Safe conduct for special train from Hankow.
649
Dec. 17. 4 p.m.
Import-export and exchange control.
650
Dec. 17, 5 p.m.
Press reports regarding American naval move
651
Dec. 17, 6 p.m.
Payment of commercial dues by GOLD STAR.
652
Dec. 17, 7 p.m.
PANAY incident.
653
Dec. 17, 8 p.m.
PANAY incident.
654
Dec. 18, 11 a.m.
Japanese recognition of provisional
government in North China.
655
Dec. 18, 3 p.in
PANAY incident.
656
Dec. 18, 8 F.m
Alaska salmon fisheries.
657
Dec. 19, 1 p.7.
PANAY
incident.
658
Dec. 1 9, 4 p.m.
American press reports.
659
Dec. 19, 5 p.m.
Alaska fisheries.
660
Dec. 20, 11 a.m.
Coding and clerical staff.
661
Dec. 20, noon
Alaska fishcries.
662
Dec. 20, 3 p.m.
PANAY incident.
663
Dec. 20, 4 p.m.
Evacuation from Hankow.
664
Dec. 21, noon.
March of Japanese troops through the
Intcrnational Settlement at Shanghai.
665
Dec. 21, 6 p.m.
Conference between the Government and
Imperial Headquarters.
666
Dec. 21, 7 p.m.
Japanese press opinions.
667
Dec. 22, 9 a.m.
Japanese attacks on british vessels.
668
Dec. 22, 11 a.m.
PANAY incident.
669
Dec. 22, 8 p.m.
Alaska fisheries.
670
Dec. 23, noon
Jepanese shipping laws.
671
Dec. 2 3, 3 p.m.
From Commercial Attaché for Commerce.
672
Dec. 23, 4 p.m.
Area free from attack at Hankow.
673
Dec. 2 3, 5 p.m.
Japanese violation of British territory
at Hong Kong.

=== Page 642 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
No.
Dete
Sub ject
674
Dec. 23
6 p.m.
Conversation of British Ambassador with
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
675
Dec. 23, 10 p.m.
Dhinese customs.
676
Dec. 23, 11 p.m.
PANAY incident.
577
Dec. 24, 6 p.m.
PANAY incident.
678
Dec. 24, 7 p.m.
Alaska fisheries.
679
Dec. 24, 8 p.m.
PANAY incident.
680
Dec. 25, noon
PANAY incident.
681
Dec. 25, 5 p.m.
Chinese customs.
682
Dec. 26, 10 a.m.
Hankow safety zone.
683
Dec. 26, noon.
I.dY incident.
684
Dec. 27, 11.m.
Japanese holidays.
685
Dec. 28, 11 a.m.
Code books.
686
Dec. 28 noon
PANAY incident. Safety zone at Tsingteo.
697
Dec. 28, ] r.m.
PANAY incident - contrihutions.
688
Dec. 28, 2 r.m.
Frecedence at Imporial recertion.
689
Dec. 28. 5 p.m.
Allison's journey to Nanking in CA.
690
Dec. 28, 4 p.m.
Janger arear on the Yangtze.
691
Dec. 28, 5 p.m.
PAY incident.
692
Dec. 28, 6 p.m.
Ida Kahn Hospital.
693
Dec. 28, 7 p.m.
Japanese press opinions.
694
Dec. 29, 10 e.m.
FANAY incident - contributions.
695
Dec. 29, 11 a.m.
Chinese customs.
696
Dec. 29, noon
Hankow evacuation.
697
Dec. 30, 11 a.m.
Japanese attacks on Dritish vessels.
698
Dec. 31, 5 p.m.
PANAY incident.
699
Dec. 31, 7 p.m.
Chinese customs.
700
Dec. 31, 8 p.m.
Japanese attacks on British vessels.

=== Page 643 === (confidence 0.99)
DESFATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING DEDEMBER 1937.
No.
Date
Subject
2682
Dec. 2
Pan American Airways.
2683
Dec. 3
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES 1922.
2684
De. 3
Letters rogatory, Yano case.
2685
Dec. 3
Jaranese shipping list.
2 686
Dec. 6
Monthly political report for November
2687
Dec. 6
Diplomatic visa report.
2688
Dec. 9
International Telecommunicaticn Conferences.
2689
Dec. 9
Extraterritoriality in Manchuria.
2690
Dec. 10
Recommendations made and steps taken by the
American Embassy and steps taken by the Eritish
and French Embassies in Tokyo with resrect to the
Sino-Japanese conflict.
2691
Dec. 10
Italian recognition of "Manchukuo".
2692
Dec. 10
Sino-Japanese relations.
2693
Dec. 10
Chinese customs.
2694
Dec. 10
Alaskan salmon fisheries.
2695
Dec. 10
Cipher tables.
2696
Dec. 11
Anglc-American relations as regards Japan.
2697
Dec. 21
Arrival of Clrrk Evelyn K. Varley.
2698
Dec. 21
Diplomatic visa report.
2699
Dec. 21
Exchange of Government publications.
2700
Dec. 22
Two-year examination of six language officers.
2701
Dec. 22
Two-year examination, Language Officer
David K. Caldwell.
2702
ec. 22
Two-year examination, Language Officer
Beppo R. Johansen.
2703
Dec. 22
Two-year examination, Language Officer
U. Alexis Johnson.
2704
Dec. 22
Two-year examination, Langage officer
W. Garland Richardson.
2705 Dec. 22
Two-year examination, Language Officer
Max W. bchmidt.
2706
Dec. 22
Two-year examination, Language Officer
William E. Yuni.
2707 Dec. 23
Sino-Japanese relations.

=== Page 644 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
No.Date
Subject
2708 Dec. 23
Sino-Japanese conflict. Recommendations made
and steps taken.
2709 Dec. 23
Chinese customs.
2710
Dec. 23
Sinking of the U.S.S. ANAY by Japanese airplanes.
2711
Dec. 23
Alaska salmon fisning situation.
2712
Dec. 31
Diplomatic visa report.
