894.20 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., March 5, 1936 - June 10, 1938 (File 1022)
ID: 894.20-1022   Pages: 252   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20-military-affairs-army-8
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
248
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Maroh 5, 1936.
No. 1707.
SUBJECT:
TRIAL OF LIEUTENANT-COLONEL SABURO AIZAWA AND
ITS POLITICAL SIGNIFICANCE.
94.2
Lue
4
lug
FAR LASTEAN AFFAIRS
1.)
C
MAR 25 1936
Department of State
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.LD.
894.20/155
Nい
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to submit a report on the trial of
PILED
a11
Lieutenant-Colonel Saburo Aizawa for the murder of Major-
3
cl.p
1936
General Nagata*, with particular reference to its bearing
on the recent uprising and on the political views of the
discontented element in the Army.
On August 12, 1935, Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa stabbed
F
/FG
to death Major-General Nagata, Director of the Military
Affairs Bureau of the War Ministry, who was then in his
office. Aizawa, of Samurai family, had as a result of
V
the August 1 Army shifts been transferred from his post
in
894.20/141
* See mbassy's telegram No. l66, August 13, 1935, and
Despatoh No. 1450, August 23, 1935.
89420/145

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
249
-2-
in Northern Japan to Formosa and was on his way to Formosa
when he assassinated Nagata. He was detained and questioned
by the gendarmerie and later placed in the Tokyo Military
Prison where he remained until his trial.
The public trial was opened at the Court Martial of
 the First Division in Tokyo on January 28. The counsels
for the defense were Lieutenant-Colonel Sakichi Mitsui
and Dr. Somei Uzawa, a member of the House of Peers and of
the Seiyukai political party, and President of Meiji Uni-
versity. Mr. Tomosaburo Shimada, in charge of the judi-
cial affairs of the First Division, was the chief prosecutor
and was assisted by Mr. Kotaro Sugihara, a judicial official
attached to the Army. The presiding judge was Major-General
Shozaburo Sato, Commander of the First Infantry Brigade.
There was never any question of Aizawa's guilt, since
this was admitted by him at the very start. The manner in
which the trial was conducted from the beginning showed con-
clusively that the fate of Aizawa was only a minor consider-
ation. It transpired with increasing clarity as the trial
proceeded that the important aspects of the case were the
political ideas entertained by a section of the Army and
reports that a large number of rominent men were involved
in the affair, either directly or in some nebulous way.
That which began as the cold-blooded murder of a high-ranking
Army officer by one of his subordinates developed into an
intensely dramatio episode that affected almost all phases
of Japan's political life.
In the formal indictment against Aizawa it was stated
that sinoe about l930 he had been worrying about the future
of Japan; that he had become convinoed in June, l933, of
the necessity of reforming the War Ministry, as the Army
had

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
250
-3-
had failed to unite for the clarification of the national
polity spirit; that he had taken an antipathy for General
Nagata in the belief that the General was hindering the
national reformation under the pretext of control of the
Army; and that his antipathy had become more intense when
General Mesaki was relieved of his post of Director Gen-
eral of Military Education since he believed General
Nagata responsible for the dismissal. The trial proceeded
for nearly a month and was indefinitely postponed on Feb-
ruary 27, the day after the murder of Viscount Saito, General
Watanabe, Finance Minister Takahashi, and Colonel Matsuo, the
Prime Minister's brother-in-law.
This trial has unusual significance because the revel-
ations brought out during its course are closely associated
with the feeling in military circles that prompted the May 15
incident and subsequent plots and incidents. The names of
the persons mentioned in the Aizawa trial figured prominent-
ly in the trial of the officers connected with the murder of
Premier Inukai on May 15, 1932. In November, 1934, there was
discovered a plot of younger Army officers for the "renovation
of the country" and the assassination of Prince Saionji, the
Genro, as well as Dr. Suzuki, President of the Seiyukai. Since
this plot was alleged to have been frustrated by Major-General
Nagata, it came up for frequent mention in the trial of Aizawa
and was referred to as the "secret incident of November." On
July 16, 1935, General Jinsaburo Masaki, Inspector General of
Military Education, was removed from office and General Wata-
nabe was appointed in his place.* In view of the suspicion
held by Aizawa and others that Nagata had been largely res-
ponsible
 Embassy's telegram No. 151 of July 16, 1935, and
despatoh No. 14l4 of July 26, 1935.
894.00/549

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
251
4-
ponsible for Masaki's dismissal, this event oocupied
a great deal of attention in the trial. Shortly after
Masaki's dismissal Captai ns Kaji Muranaka and Asaichi
Isobe issued a pamphlet defending Masaki and accusing
Nagata of be ing connected with the large business in-
terests and also of being a spy for the senior states-
men. It was disclosed during the hearings that Mura-
naka and Isobe had been associates of Aizawa. Their
pamphlet was referred to in the trial as the "secret
evidence" of Nagata's guilt and was apparently con-
sidered to have influenced Aizawa in his action. The
mystery which surrounds this document is indicated by
the fact that the Embassy's Military Attaché was unable
to obtain a copy of it.
Perhaps the most significant development of the
trial is the revelation of a desire held by various
Army officers and persons outside the Army for a
"renovation of the nation" to destroy the influence
of the senior statesmen and the big industrialists
and of the bureaucrats and Army officers affiliated
with them. This feeling was made clear both by
Aizawa's testimony and by the statements of Colonel
Mitsui and Dr. Uzawa, the defense counsels. Aizawa
himself defined the renovation of the nation, other-
wise known as the Showa restoration, as "the return
of political and financial powers to the Emperor."
In the light of all the other testimony this rather
vague phrase could probably be interpreted as follows:
"The

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
252
-5-
*The Showe Restoration will be achieved when the Em-
peror has ceased to be influenced by the senior states-
men and their backers, the financial magnates." In
addition, Aizawa admitted that he had desired to carry
out a reformation by removing present civil officials
and effecting perfect control of the Army by the Emperor.
When asked to explain more concretely the practical meth-
od for bringing about the "Showa Restoration", Aizawa re-
plied that the Minister of Education could not properly
educate the general public and that this should be done
by Army reserve men. Lieutenant-Colonel Mitsui supported
and amplified Aizawa's statements by asserting that the
national impasse was characterized by Japan's internation-
al isolation, the chaotic condition of nationel thoughts,
poverty among the people, and political instability; that
the real cause of the Aizawa-Nagata incident was the con-
flict between the financial interests and the convervative
forees close to the Throne on the one hand, and the radical
elements desirous of the "Showa Restoration" on the other;
that the conservatives had the upper hand and as a result
had nearly "poisoned" the Imperial Army.
As stated above, the names of a number of prominent
men were brought into the hearings of the Court Martial.
Viscount Saito was charged by the defendant and his counsels
with having been instrumental in Japan's accepting the London
Naval Treaty; with responsibility for the "illegal dismissal"
of General Masaki from the post of Inspector General of Mili-
tary Education and General Watanabe's appointment in his
place; with having guaranteed the future status of General
Hayashi (then Minister for War) and Major-General Nagata

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
253
-6-
f if they would bring about the removal of Masaki; with
having induoed Prince Saionji to respond to the Emperor
that Admiral Okada was the suitable man for the post of
Premier; and with having asked Premier Okada to suppress
those who aimed at the Showa Restoration. Aizewa ac-
cused Generals Minami, Hayashi, and Ugaki of having
schemed with the senior statesmen, bureaucrats, and
financial leaders to persuade General Nagata to cause
the removal of General Masaki. In addition, he said:
"General Ugaki is the Ashikaga Takauji (i.e., the em-
bodiment of disloyalty in the Japanese mind) of the
Showa era." The defendant also believed, according to
Y
certain statements found in his diary, that Count Makino
and Prince Saionji were also responsible for obstructing
the Showa Restoration. At the tenth and last hearing on
February 25, Lieutenant Colonel Mitsui, defense counsel,
stated that he wanted to summon Mr. Seihen Ikeda of the
Mitsui interests; Mr. Ijuro Ota, Ikeda's relative; Mar-
quess Koicho Kido; Major General Saburo Inouye; Mr. Sakichi
Shimozono, personal secretary of Count Makino; and Mr.
Toshiki Karasawa, Director of the Police Affairs Bureau
of the Home Office. In connection with his desire to
question Ikeda and Ota, Lieutenant Colonel Mitsui said
that he wanted to find out whether they had conferred
with General Nagata on the suppression of the Showa
restoration movement and whether they had extended finan-
cial assistance to him. Among other men mentioned for
summoning to the trial before its adjournment were Gen-
oral Ugaki and Lieutenant-General Hajime Sugiyama, Vice
Chief of Staff. On February 25 General Masaki appeared
for

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
254
-7-
for questioning in camera, the public not being ad-
mitted for fear that the proceedings would tend to in-
jure the interests of the Army. According to Domei
(news agency), after remaining for fifty minutes Gen-
eral Masaki left the court room abruptly and apparent-
ly in indignation. The reasons for General Masaki's
sudden departure from the Court Martial are not known,
although the news agency quoted above stated that he
had refused to give concrete evidence on the ground
that in so doing he would violate Article 235 of the
Court Martial Regulations, which provides that testi-
mony involving official secrets may not be given by
members of the Supreme War Council without Imperial
Sanction.
A great part of the questioning and testimony had
to do with Aizawa's motives, probably on account of the
prosecution's desire to ascertain whether higher offi-
cers had influenced the assassin. According to his
testimony, Aizawa's motives were: his belief that
Nagata was a "source of evil incarnate" and the prin-
cipal obstruotionist of the "Showa Restoration"; his
despair over the corruption in the Army; and his con-
viotion that elements in the Army were consorting with
senior statesmen. Although Aizawa insisted throughout
the trial that the murder was purely a case of direot
action, suspicion would naturally fall on the Army
officers with whom he admitted having had contact for
y several years past. These associates in the Army, as
far as can be gathered from the testimony published by
the

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
255
-8
the newapapers, were Captains Asaichi Isobe and Koji
Muranaka, the joint authors of the "secret pamphlet"
/referred to above; Captain Okishi; Zei Nishida; two naval
officers involved in the May 15 incident; former Army
Captains Sone, Eichi Okura, Ando, Sato, and Koda; Cap-
tain Tsuji; and one Kazutero Kita. Although some ob-
servers suspected General Masaki of direct complicity
in the murder, there is no evidence of this. All that
is known, according to the defendant's statements, is
that he was an admirer of Masaki and killed General
Nagata on account of the latter's alleged connection
with Masaki's "disgrace". Aizawa was also closely
questioned as to whether he had been aware of the guilt
attached to the murder of a superior officer and the
punishment which might be administered to him. The
prosecution's reason for insisting upon this point
was doubtless that of discovering whether Aizawa had
received from higher officials a promise of clemency.
The defendant's answers were vague, namely, that he
had not thought of punishment because his inspiration
had come from "on high"; that he had anticipated that
he would be questioned for a few days by the gendarmerie
and subsequently tried by officers in his regiment who
would understand his motives and thus condone him; and
that perhaps he would be allowed the honor of pleading
his case before the Emperor. It will be remarked that
many of Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa's statements were
extremely illogical. However, the force of his emotion-
al conviotions is aptly exemplified by a statement
attributed

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
286
-8-
attributed to him in connection with his indiotment.
When asked if he had thought how the renovation of
the nation must be effected he replied: *I did not
'think'; I acted. It (the indictment) also claims
that I was moved by the 'words' of my associates.
It was not their words but the communion of their
souls that moved me".
As already reported to the Department, the devel-
opments that came to light in the Aizawa trial were
probably one of the immediate causes of the February 26
uprising.* The revelations of the trial, whether true
or not, undoubtedly excited the feelings of the plotters
and perhaps forced them to act on February 26 instead
of later. There is no doubt of Masaki's influence,
passive at least, on the officers who took part in the
rebellion. Evidences of this influence are the following:
his known opposition to the moderate element in the Army,
comprised of such men as General Hayashi, ex-Minister
for War, and General Watanabe, Masaki's successor in
office; the co-incidence that he was admired by the young-
er chauvinist officers, as revealed by the trial; and the
faot that as Inspector General of Education he went a long
way toward moulding the chauvinist ideals of the younger
officers. It may also be pointed out that Captains Ando
and Nonaka, two of the ringleaders in the attempted coup
d'état, were cadets at the Military Academy during the
time that both Masaki and Aizawa were instruators there. Also,
Nonaka
* mbassy's tebegram No. 37 of February 26, 1936.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
257
-10-
Nonaka was a member of the Aizawa Court Martial and
must have heard Masaki's testimony at the secret session
of February 25. And it is very significant that former
Captains Koji Muranaka and Asaichi Isobe, who were close
associates of Aizawa, were among those who took part in
the revolt, according to the communiqué of Martial Law
Headquarters issued on the afternoon of March 1, which
contained the statement: "The ma jority of the remaining
officers and Koji Muranaka, Asaichi Isobe, and Zensuke
Isobe, who participated in the revolt, were put in the
military prison." Perhaps the insurgents were also in-
spired by the following statements made by Lieutenant-
Colonel Mitsui at the second hearing of the trial on Janu-
ary 30: that the spirit of the Showa Restoration was about
to be manifested through Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa; that a
large majority of the younger officers in the Army were de-
termined to oust outside influences; that the nation de-
sired sincerely that the Army should prove itself to be
the Army of the Emperor; and that if the Court failed to
understand the spirit which guided Aizawa, a second Aizawa
and even a third would appear.
As no official record of the trial has been available,
the statements made during itsproceedings were obtained
by the Embassy from several newspapers. However, as the
trial (except for one session in camera) was open to re-
porters and as the newspapers consulted by the Embassy were
gonerally in agreement, it is thought that the testimony
and statements recorded in this despatch can be relied on.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Mosčow.
800.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE .....894.00/566
FOR Tel#38. 7pm.
FROM ....Japan.
(...Gr...) DATED ..Feb...26..1936
894.20/
TO
NAME
1-1197
Coup d'etat of Feb 26, 1936 described as the work of a few
REGARDING:
companies of the first and third regiment of the first divi-
sion with headquarters in Tokyo. Negotiations are proceeding
between the Army High Command and the insurgents. Drastic
56
action has not been taken against the latter because further
9
bloodshed or street fighting is to be avoided.
FRG.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
FE
FS
GRAY
894.20
Tokyo
Dated February 26,1936
Rec'd 9:05 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
RUSF
30, February 26, 7 p. m.
894.
Embassy's 37, February 26, noon.
One. Up to this no nt the ribassy has endeavored
0
0
merely to keep the Department prointly apprised of current
5
reports emanating from the most reliable contacts avail-
22
able but not susceptible of definite confirmation. In
the existing nebulous atmosphere the wildest rumors have
naturally been passed around in Tokyo. The following
information was received confidentially this afternoon
in conversation with a friendly and trustworthy official.
Two. "It appears that the attempted coup d'etat was
the work of a few companies of the first and third regi-
ment of the first division with headquarters in Tokyo.
These soldiers amounting to perhaps 1000 men, led by
officers of junior rank, left their barracks in the night
with arms and ammunition. Some of the men seized the
Prime Minister's residence, the police headquartors, the
Home

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
2-No. 38, Fobruary 26, 7 p. m. from Tokyo
Home Office, the War Department, and the office of the
Coneral Staff of the Army. Tho rest armed with machine
guns proceeded to the residences of Viscount Saito,
Admiral Suzuki, Finance Minister Takahashi, General
"atanabe and others and murdered them. Attempts were
also made upon Prince Saionji and Count Makino residing
in the country but both appeared to have been forewarned
and to have escaped although their safety is not yet
definitely confirmed.
The exact list of the assassinated
officials is not available and the Government has banned
all news regarding the mattor.
The uninjured members of
the Cabinet and of the Var Council are meeting at the
Palace in lieu of other available meeting place. Admiral
Osumi, Minister of the Navy is reportedly acting Prime
Minister. The Government believes itself in command of
the situg :on and apparently no new units have joined
the insurg nts who are still in possession of the build-
ings they s ized last night.
 The approaches to these build-
ings as well - the Palaoo entrances are guarded by sol-
diers from loyal units not affiliatcd with the revolution-
ary troops. The higher military officers have not takon
drastic action against tho lattor because thcy do not
wish further bloodshed or strect fighting."
(END ONE).
HPD
GREW

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated February 26,1936
Rec'd 12:15 p. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
RUSH
38, February 26, 7 p. m. (SCTION TVO).
Three. This afternoon a meeting was held between
the Emperor, Imperial Princes, members of the Cabinet
and members of the  ar Council at which discussions
were held regarding the Acting Fremier. It is reported
by newspaper men (who are not allowed to publish the
news) that at the meeting it was proposed that Prince
Konoye or General Araki be apnointed as Premier but
the insurgents stated that they wanted either Admiral
Kanji Kato or Baron Hiranuma; otherwise they will resume
their insurgency. The Embassy has not yet been able to
ascertain who has been appointod Acting Premier but offi-
cial sources have mentioned to tho Embassy Osumi and Goto.
Negotiations are proceeding betveen the Army High Comnand
2
and the insurgents but the latter refuse to surrender
the buildings they occupy. Additional loyal Government
troops have been brought into Tokyo from nearby towns.
Four.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
3-No. 38, February 26, 7 p. m. from Tokyo
Four. Latest reports indicate that Home Minister
Goto and former Mar Minister dayashi were not (repeat
not) assassinated.
Five. At the present moment there is no (repeat
no) indication or prospect o? anti-foreign demonstra-
tions in Tokyo. The Embassy's statement in paragraph
four of tele gram No. 37 that there appears to be
absolutely no anti-foreign feelin involved in the
affair roferred primarily to the absence of anti-
foreign demonstrations. Obviously a chauvenistic
discontent with the so-called liberal policies of the
late governnent was the basis of the coup d'etat invol-
ving dissatisfaction with its foreign, no less than
its domestic, policies and measures.
Six. The report of General Mazaki's imnlication
in the revolt is not confirmed. The restricted size
of the movement so far as we can now see indicated fairly
clearly that it was the work of junior officers. The
Embassy has been given to undcrstand that there will be
no further developments of the situation tonight.
(ND IESSAGE).
HPD
GREW

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/157
894.00/623
#1718
FOR
SEE
Mar. 6, 1936
Japan
Grew
.) DATED
FROM
NAME
1-1137
xx
REGARDING: the attempted Japanese military coup d'etat of February
26, 1936. Analysis of causes leading to tim -.
dew

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.76)
2920.
Toye are , los.
The Zemerable
ereryrB
I have she hemer o sutalt ane tollsln re ort u t
besle d lmmedlnte ooues loninn l se outbreak of the
Jumtem erfioere of the Jopsmese rmy on ebreery , itse,
in waied sdmlrel viset  ite, Iinamne inister Tarmmreni
ans Gomerel rasamsbe vere killed rnd various cther premlment
steseemm wore cisueked. The preclse emumee im ellime the
yams erfieers will cet be kmowe untll tsey are clmelceed
as the triale er she orrisere (if shey are made yublle evem
ahem), bat in she meestime the Xmbessy will mttempt te dee

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.69)
●●
amsh of she festers leadtme so she outbreak as ase
Im way stsempt to eeelyse the sausee leedms te she
smswrpeotiem of Febrmery 2s, l9s, it is neeaasary to
te L ldtl  re  J,  i st
woll-mem satienel uzisy in simes or emergeney, is in
feet compomed of arny dl For ant ed cflemtimes "urrine
frotlems. oreever, the loot aust to laken leto  mslteree
den that, in ortor te wserstens the matires er oder
Jape me t rmine tn surtoas  prouedre of snoiont
J, plly te Jn  th gn,
Jepemee somve lone asd moee nl tust ware lrgely
asyetallises.
1.
lr
h
 Ja r rl, ltr t wn
 rsttitt hrer
tndotrializatle  hn searyion reeulted rm tho
i
 l  L  l 
 in overl l r  
mot omtirely prepered sr the trenelcion rom a predosl-
mastly esloulterel stete to  melern i ustril nd eas
morolel mtiom, wits the eturel Tult tha oartmim fhtiom

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.67)
●  ●
the atsem foune sirfloulty la ed justixe themsel ves
to alsesed esasisiens. This sirrloulw s pereleulerly
anpereme in she silitery unk resetlemary fnetloms, wtlem,
secustemes es they vese te cover mens by ellltrry eligaresies.
  ém  ri  nw an l
lm i  Jpeme ever e. he sl 
was lmsomeiried my the results or she atngt n onlaroe
f lol le ern. so te  noese to rel
Ja   i  , lt 
rareker sntenslsled sy sne surioan  mlgretlom ot  lose,
l, he Je elieve, lmnie the J e s
imfrler ree.l  fte e tl  o
pro traly she esln secind te seite m lcnte t Japem
11
iltaron
 i allvd
y to lni f h
r ml, uL  n af y 15, lo
 l  
(ll n t ty  l l ln t oocl
l  ull t  l 
f  J  l slttly  o to o lli
  r l urtn ti e 
 rr  g  rvi r, l

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.70)
● ●
e ne ho eaylsell, se it is zoum sodey, die
mes esiss.: eemidereble art of the Iaurrese nasiem
(ssmssetlns lozgely ot the mllitery sme mmprepertied
leesee) does mes uemd sme part plyed by she ep-
tallete in the werlt or tovey wes resente she  roseh ef
She fincmelal ane iduatriul lstorests, alen trey beo
 n t 
s     r l oi   i
soesney, whe oiret sheir li n ln in tn foneel
Gage. The feelims unly a lles to the mouern os itallete.
d r eipelly inst t itowle, wes ie, ni,
T  . he ry rsl le reem
pellly enly mo    frill bonum,
itb,  srt  
dopselo, e mclri of sever cnt cfilvle, imlmdine
 rfler, war drtllly re d, for
e trl tth
the imetrielits tn iva  so ovortl setim
e m  doval, x rt de ie trly.
  ldrili be vry l.at t rs
periy wes mot perend an to the osrer alees, o tn
fermre enn the llitary effleers romals r toy.
remls of shelr resemtmens of stin eusmitlom e me oi she

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.70)
● ●
 efleve heve evelves a curioue nsegtin or ssate
, eomteins, e fer a the esy eme eoeertein,
a sor of esete soetellm r celleetivisn, ith the
aapeeer as abeelute owner of ell properey cad with she
people se memisistrosere. There is alee e umigee ade
mistere er whns l bs ealled "semeres-tm", whereby
all are te work togother wits loylty to she epere for
the ud ef te state. Nturully, sspitelim is  posed
so sy mue sonseptlon of elite eoong, nd there'ere the
redseal group in the ray s  cas to she on ltmliats.
An wall be en lnld iater, tale a oltion atee to
 "sonler sttomen le", hie the rial illtmy
 olleve to e th tl f the en ltallete.
rabebly the woss pomrrul f oter in tte vltuatlom
l  pellieal fr sound  it  ll
y dip, le, in rief, i  l n t hete
 ipy  io l r i
he Law teelr. The youn  fisers ho c sinwered the
imrreezln belived, né sudtedly ost minoerely.
that te ro lr eten un he Thr
wore relogalims tom yror to ths oeltlom or being alaly
milrtor l thlt yeur
ale pormtives. Thls in  oetes it the Tittem stete
imouresete sistributed Gn strwary ss sod  blan ann boom
relafolle

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.71)
● ●
o parpeee as the elelas wee to eslainte
eosional pollty.
mo "meslemel pelity' in tals esse is unserst os to weem
the theery thes the aperer Ls The ew. The Ltesenee
Le s  dre (e ion), he stten lre 
e Tom (nt nlme, irl ul,irl ite,
Admirul shedm, barem hai ved otnere, tue finenolal mae
d etmere), she mllitory ullqur v es in poxer(gemerel
L, Gnnl tn, i n  thrl,
  , .t, r.i 
   pollel et e l the 
theriy of the mperer c t ereby lostroyin the stlonm
pollty. The roectionery sIoont i thm my "n outmide
b ot ntte uthe
yth
prer nd on he y itlr to urther teir'
selfie lterests. They olleve tt the emre, the sesler
n ur l te rne  the orte l
ta e rmy are in lona ith sne reet Cinrolel Insereste.
ane shnt thy are uslm tir o er in se lovermm
so fter hoe interet t tn  ee or te ree
mase of the people, thie peint of vion is well brsught
as im an imtervlow wnlen  taim noxrrlins, sxistame
ailitry thé n . I. rene, of the y. hd
with r. Jmes D. aherer, a friend of emerel fimeubare
a, heme oplriane r. suerer is pressnd to have

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.82)
ee wit ell er ür. Feberer's statemeste,  e er which
sosm almese famtastie. for example, r. ekerer implled
shat Fimsmee inister Takakeski was she teol or she eeps-
tallets, whe fattened orr she prorise mede on maultloms.
mut is is undemleble thet r. "atakmahi tried by every
meens in ais pever to reduse the allitary buágots. gaia,
Dr. Seberer Lnylled thst the sampelgms on the sietse eeee
simeme were spensered ar instigested by te uayItellets.
whese seels she semler ststemmen are. ut säsim is is une
demlable that the sampslams luso morth thine by the Kwame
sane Ary were stopped by sommand of the mperes, pree
smeely en the ndvice of the same meler statesmen. e
ayite shese ebvlously lllogleel impllentions, ho ever,
it ls belleved shat r. dherer's statemente contain a
som of srtn and uoubtedly ropresent the nlons of
tm of th J ese ay.
It wlll be noted t at the i sursent  frsaere, on
Fobruey s, etteoked prircipelly the se tor stmtesmon
surroundine the hrone.lecount elte, ord ee ar ef
the rivy eel,  killed lrel uzuki, Grend he berleie,
wao woanded! "romier d iral kadn mes atteaked but sedaped;
sount axime, o wot in lss a !ce but roebly the
most alolied (by the aheuvinlstlo eloment) or sny ststes
on in Jepes ws mttmoked out oonpd; nd n atteok we
plansed om rimee selonsi, the enre, ecsordlns te reperte.
tat the Insargents were arreated un the truim on route se
the resore where the Frinee wes s enains the winter. The
ssommptiem therefore ls thst the insurgemt offloers sonsicered

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.80)
● ●
somter stespamen sarroundins the Threme te be the meed
destrestive elemess is the Japenese Gevernmems ene seelees
te eliminate them :irss. They apperently die met astempé
te essasslmate eay er she sreet rin neisl magnetes. se
corains to " Jspezese erfisisl, hevever, the Lasurgeate
mad a sesomd program, whlon "as designed so aliminate
some of the mere pronl ent riemelers, but leek of suppest
from she pople ne sher pt mouren taen for he uge
preaslon or the t sursoute revented thom from corrying out
she seoond prorm.
.
The wllitery belleve t at the tre tles ooneluded as 
rewlt of the nn igt a  ferenee of l9 l- ere woll-
imontlomed, t in the ni more hr thes ooe. 
effeet, they way that thn tr htles ave blne a "blank
smoek" whleb bina belisred soul: be uaed at aay time to D-
tetm belp from wreet rritain srs the  cited sates. The
Onlveme thererore not only d not holp tseseelves out of
she merese Into wlen ley ns allem, but boumme arrogss
ncrdtofilh
rerueed to recogmise Js au's luterests in suohurie, whien
bremght on the neburian soldemt o: losl. The same fmeter
appliem to hine roper. bins bus dillgout and intelllgont
peeple, like the Jepenese, sut nereae the Jn mreme heve made
e sreet deel out of li lis, the sinese have made notnims
as  mee, due rimrlly to poor cover mont. The sinese
are usins their "ble k eheck" of the es iagtom treasiee
to keep the Jepmnese rrom developing alne, emd she Japanene
shemeelves sre nore er less sssopped oy those smme treetlese

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.78)
● ● ●
málstesy ase resestfal a saie fast and she resentmest
lense to dérese eesien egsinst thege consldered responsible
Amosber vary serlems basie reeter in the sitwetios
llee Sn the feuls im she tro nine of she orrleere of the
Jepemess y whies impels shem to take direes sstiem hom-
over they feel shst they should sorreet some real or famsled
atase. To maderatamd sbis esullnr toadoney to sake direet
and vielome eetlom, one wust mgoln so busk to foudel aays in
Japem Them the merel, the snldlere, ere loyel unly to
shelr fendel lode.hem xttet ere md to orlze
 Imperiml ray efter the Iji estoretion, 1t rs foumd
mat sme soldlers, soaustond as lney lad been te sivins
Lepaley only to shair alan enlefe, tomsed to Srsnsfer this
leyalty to thelr i sdlate mu urior  isrs, with the ree
als het lsmurreetiote pegure  fheree listle
legeley so the spire. o so reot tais tefves, the peros
teija, in lume, Iseued sn m orlel  esoxipt to the rmy end
Mevy, gsalsins the seeessity o? om lete loyalty to
the Smperer. The rollowina prarreee fres the eseripé will
serve to illustrate the eme brele plcoed upes this peint:
" The supreme commsnd of ur forees le in 
bamés, ana alshough • may entrust mukordinnte
coumenés to Our subjeess, ret te ultiate
smeheriey se Omreelr shail hold wn never calegste
te  bjeet."
-oldlere  allore,  re four suprm memer
lmmthier. cur relatioms iis you will be memt im
simeteemrely m yomer li d you
look wy to fs as your mesd."
2

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.76)
● 20 ●
the lagalty of the nelateme from their Lmmediate chiere
te the eee, toe the srouble today atees frem the
fese shst she seeriye vae met vlleved se elnk iate ebe
sourity efter it bed secempllated its parpese bet recmime
teday. la e mdere state, as she ible of the rmy. Te
Japemese r pleees sreel lsortpee upon tme "mpirituel
trelmims" of 1te soldlese, ma uses she  oricl eseripe
for the porpese of sueh trsluing. he result hes been to
srer-emphesime the ofr'lews direet connsutlon vith the
Impeser and bie loyelsy so the mpror, s to use
mesime she mecesesty or beulute vbrdiemee to ls superier
efflesrs, omsequently the foums orfleers feel thet, if
sheir enneeptien or t eir suty to the aperer oourliess
wism erdere recelved frsn t..sir superior vifleere, they eam.
wish a eloas samselenee, aleregard tho o dere and net me-
cord me to tholr liusts. his Feot vas ll ilimstrated
h  oiy sntn roi
l0os. It vill D roeshered tnt tam unite of the astung
amy omld only b* stu ped at tse roat ull by the lurumnee
of an fmperlel arder to the orfoot thet the rmy ahould mes
ve   thll wth l sln y he
oustry,  almple order rom the sonernl comndine the re
would mave b  m lolent to nto thn advnoe, ut in ahe
of the i of the ran mll en
was roguired se mtep she ye ns o floere in ou mmns or the
wmlts. mle tendeney toard sireet sns isslviduel eesiem
lay behine the recent iroicent of vbruary , l9ss, es ell
 bomim she previome me of y 1, lo,  blme ne
mereer of temerel pogete is less. is the reeent ineldems.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.80)
• 11 •
 youms Lasurgent effleere refused to obey the ropested
©ommsmée of steir muperier efrseere shet shey return se
shesr basrmake, and eroatuelly an Imperlel eeweed was
lsaved. The privotes beyed the imperiel eoxxené end
anrrendered, bes the officers weld out for mome sime longer.
sefuming ts sur render uatll their cosmnde nad reem mat.
The imonnsleteney or rnfunlins maquestlouins obed enee to the
Emperes, while profes ins to be flgntis to reatore she
Rmperer's outnerlty, lose not poom to dave penurred so
the lnmurgant orrisers.
. 
there were severel miñor sauses hlek impelled the
insrgems ofrieere to take direet cotlon ct cais partiouler
time, bt,    re by es nse ofrloll, thy
emstituten only the fuss whion touohed ofr the poes, the
potr (the beele unrest) po lrendy there.
The lst sivlslon, mttloned in  moer Tokye, mas re
cemtly eréered t: nnohurin ns I s l soments for anothes
divielem walen hos eerved ita tl a in the  m tun  rmy.
m of the ragiments of the ist ivlsion  ore sobeduled
 tst rrourie withio  feye, mn the i
satlmfled youms pffiuere rolt tst they were sowpelled
to eet elekly, before tair e erture, ir they oped
to attmapt to sorrest the soumes smien they telleved
esieted in the Gever ment. Horeover, heving beem e uipped
with mmmmnltlen and other ou liee for mutive duty im Mam
emmrie, shey wore in a posilion to make nn erreeslve esteek
an the Geveret.
..
The hearimgs in the trlal of Lleutenant-ralonel

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.76)
●8.●
ve bes prossdiss for she pet moste and heve served
t amsite the srome of younger o ricere in syapsshy wstn
Almewe. Is develeped et she srial tuat :lamvm held mmah
she same sdees in resard te the metiansl pollty snd abuses
in the lever mont es did she lasurgent affinors, ad thnt
ne hed killed General mrate beemuse he belleved mim o posed
to me bee lnterests or lie tete.t rumor bes u.nt
Shet Alsawe was net beins siven " f ir trial, the eears
martial beln capesed of offtcers not in syupatay  ith
mm' viow,  un ouruary , l nki, who
 n d,ld  s itrs, is : ortou tn hae alked
ut et she sourtroom in lnnlgratlon at the mathode ueed
Im the triel. it in s lbim tat tais recipltnted the re
vele ef tne troupe, e is is romorec s st ane of she somends
of the lnmurgont orr oore as t ct Isak oo freed. me
lew trial do  Denn (atr ilely est oto, accoubtodly
Im r t oi farter sit the ry. This triel
ls d ore fully inte . 17.7 of rn , l.
.Th
 wes r erted in dee eton iol7o, of areh , lo
she feeeme sleetien or  let ve bers resnltes in the ret rn of
1i
mre ns he doft  the lyel, therty o poe 
vwnhtthasrd or
support

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.80)
● 8 ●
ore curine the comins speelal pessice er the ciet. The
s, ressenl offieere ef the amy were bisterly eppesed to
e Okede Gmbizet, whlen taey belleved so be corvegt nad
wes, and apparently sselded te overtarew lt ny feree ir 18
somld mes be overt rown by oraarly constitutlonal methodse
8.
mile it le yet tuo esrly tu vanture uny sefinite pree
dietleme in resard to the efrests of the revemt uprisims in
he Asmy, is neome foirly oort»in, sscordins to ske ebeerver
tlems or shis  mbesay, tnt wurtain weolrie resulte will flew
sherefrom. The riret, ad wrhaps tae oat I ortant, will b
definits attempse se inetil a hoter momse or clsel lime
inte the my. It ls not own how thls will be wome, bet is
ls ple  le psis il   rtre belesed
pe h dihoflown "piritel to le ef mn uon 
Gomérel rmkl end enerel macki,  ore on the solalers
praesioml dwty to she tats.
There will almost us outtedly bo at ompts to oranime a
"Tapameee Now Leel" nn to correet the soonomlo waledjustwonts
whlen lle at the root of muoll o" the  resent unreat. In Japan
Store is, in the oplniom or many stu e ts sr the oituntios.
soe sreat è spreed betwees the vary rleh nd she very oot.
the dletribotlon of sltt ls too vne ucl, sin en lons ss thie
ondisiem lests the cation will be n  er  Further out
breake simller se thome or uy 1s, loss, mnd ebrury o, l3d.
there la e llalted publle mympothy » a support for tho youms
effieere whe enginoered tho reont uprisins, but ome froquently
beare is seie that shere is s considorable amount of truth in
ans meeusatlems of she youns orfleers and thsir ollgme in the
y im regerd te maldistribution of veslsà sad serruptiem is

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.71)
•14
plescs. It ss selseved anat meet or the fermimg alass
with sme isouls or sae smousgoute, snd it in freely predtoted
that shere will to other and perne s more serions outbrexks
mlees mosetains ls dme se remedy the sovdtlime givlne pise
se the anrees. here ip t erefore ll:sle oumt tnt the o
Gover moat, wbetever sos ssm lezion ary be, vill strive to
lto l h
  t l i tel re  e ie
ai0s.
t s el lin tt she recons in mt vlll anwe
wim is populer feelins toard the left. t ill be reom
Loren tht t ne sime  t ret srthuee ? lons, sl
 ether perass vitn pectellstle letcscies ere urdered
in ld Bloos by rollels:s.
runily
mrdere hed theubll   wit lerlet
men i  .r rl nllr
ulionf
foollas In Jo m, resultins n she o ul rity ur  reeent
peare or the reeetlonary ule e tn.
ul1
oin fetld  she z cs lte n uprin s the
and  pr sn rlil  a i
towers he loft lm publie fomllhe, ltous the awing lll
foo eotrully youre
Joseph. Srow
Enslesure:
mrfvrlhert
eekmrling end r.arens
800.
LRDIS
copy o
ny,lpl
3.
1

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.74)
Emeleeare Ne, 1 to degg
ñe. 1900 of areh e, lo frem
ressatsem.
robruary 20, l9se.
u.Jes.herr wi
Ceptaim eskerlims Asslatant ilitery
Atted, end r, Farsoms.
arnd af he nt ri
boet lwmen tlee todey, r.  chorer tole hooed sue
mala shet on remding « presm cas aton 'rom amningtem
Gomserming She present crisis tere !m Jopem he hes fels
shat permape ne woule be ntin to anntribute * sli ktly
aifferemt pelut of viow on ths situetlon ir is sould
sal te somme frm the mbesy.  nic tat no sould
me me and all on the bnsdor ms tue builis in
whien be was losated was lsol ted by troope enforoins
tial le.  sueata cnt wrhnpe  ou me ble
n roseh nis if  thounat thst he oould sontribute wsee
inflonnttintro
 n l tout ki or the t three ye
  tin derli h vitnt ilitry
, and yelf,  ed n r. aherer t niss srt
mont in the Nishi inse distrivt.
r  sherer began by repestn cat be n teld me
r the telophone n then el torete on hie relmtione
wk tted tt be noforer
  y ki  tod 
imtimte rrlend and had aven vomlaciad sis son, o is
in the Ferelgn "ffiee, to mot cs  sort of honorsry meorutery
to mim. se sald shst through tais relationsnip, ho hed seem

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.79)
●  ●
o to relleu the situatten withtn the ray as 2t has
Govelepes euring the peat fow years.
Im Dr. Seheveg's epinies she presemt sariems erisis
wes the eirest resuls of reur previome imeide ts. the
firet of these ineidemte wrs thet or ay ls, loss, in whien,
althengh three leadins ststemmen were easassinsted, the
élssstietied fection in the Army eecompllehed very little.
No mede st evidont thst she youns o rlsers ho earried out
the mesesminstlone wore lueutisled Its t tlaks gromp.
the seeome smelcent ras an stleapt on saxl's life sohee
dmled fer November 8, li54, out  alon me vomuccessfel besaume
or the vigeilemee of ezekl's laforr te. Thie atlempt s
made by the group is the tmy whe oposed the reforme
adveeated by Mazski's adnore ts.
The talra lmoldemt  ns the ètsempt to ramove toneral
amaki rom pie post es irustor enorel of llitery d
l ill e rredtai  u
s Auamet or lest year.: tnin  oint r cnerer reed
 lester from  mseki s mont aherer's tonorery peeretery)
Ia mie r. akl e I  med the rerona for hie rethers'
reimeslon. It e rot, me states ip the ress, dls
satisfaetlom over eartaim s point nnts but on the other
bard a fusdamontel dirforence or o l ion  Itn onerel ayeenl.
the winlater of er, comeeralns the veein on whieh the  ry
homld be mnlitered.r. rer on satod tht
merel ki ca snlier ure  slxle, tt he be
lioved she rmy shoulc be en ray nen not metele in alltles
and she rurthermore it ahoulu mot ve the tool or the
emploitime aless in Js an. Tne fourts mnd lmst Lncltest
2

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.79)
● 8●
 the sesies whleh lead sirestly to the presemt assessl-
matbome was the murder af Gomeral ngase by  loutesent
Celmel Almme ls me.T. rer istified at
with the hayemhl- etenabe sromp whe, in uznkl'e inlos.
are wméer she eentrel er the au itnllsts mns sheis lne
strumemte, the lder tetemen. rtis snse, as 1ll be
seom shromgh a study of she testimony in  loutenams
Colemel Almawe's srlal, brought to  hest tue questiom
ef whether es not the ray ere beig ex lolted by  lu-
teesetle Geverment walen I ored the wel are of the muss
of people In Js en end moet artiuulrrly the mgreriem elees.
T. herer no leresend to develop e fun tontml
Leom, whleh was uite ov! ontly  wekl's, wrnoernins evlls
of he preest dey o it llatie orition of  n. 
wontioned etrikig econonic an wonlel injustleos.
smld that the boye who  ent out an mhot ite, kahes i,
ad d, wre ty lol eles tose vltimld by
he prent yete i tt lir rovlt es ein
 eyatem whieb sont them cut  wo shot ou the lsine of
mmemrle while thelr sisters in  s wore being wald
inte prostitutlon.  then s that ne ad seds In xiry
of we latimt Je mme rrie s to no ws the razl
ruler of depe.  led t m to it tet of souree they
reeeamlmed tast the mperer ne not ivine but urely
Diolegioal. on premeing them furtner they ststed tort
Shey sappeoed the lder tasemm ere the ronl rulere.
. Beberer kes thm who ras betl the Ler tates
mm. They replied"The Beg ?ive" (the capItnlletic familles.
witeuis, Iwmsekie, umitmmon, Yreudns vad Furae). To

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.75)
●  ●
it dom e e single mm, seiin kede of the itoml
Dr. "eheser developed at sme length the theory shat
the devernment was purely she lnetrument of she on lsallsts.
Ne mestiemed she dlsproportionstely ligat burden of taxatium
placed upom the very rieb. se wentlened the i menee profits
of the mmltlone induntry whlen went tto the nenas of these
m waly fallles. e siled the mon in that
Tekammoni and  sito ware the "bunte" (alarke) or the eeyi-
l  ld th kd,l, n re
the rubher step type or uf lolal, re dily costrolled by
tho interets. e antien tnt the proe rlsy of theme
pluteeretle isterests wes fser sarved by the sbauviolesle
pelme epensored by ths  l lind tirDote
hr the reulti rofite  itinnt
(He did pet make o!eer so s tein cskerlins or  yself
Ju  Tekbeni duld be retred us eter tn s re
oraimime lnrlmetee on the pse tery ei mer t the wred
servie for moreoney.)
Im Sr.  oberer s opislon the atate oi err ira d morlbed
bv w drmatllly lle on orueryhe iur
reotlom seemed e  es ss ressiwa of ths worldwlde trend
t olleivi. o  , t te y  l
would   importnt ms aron 4 losa uee te ts oited
i h  te
hereover, slnoe she lsess whlon lsd the youger orrioers to
direet setiem ere in el i ller to ski', scerel
  nw becm  rel rule of . t, r.
Somerer hestened to say, zaki himmelr tod ne pre-kno ledge

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.77)
●  。
he imsrrecsiem.  vee e bellever in élseilime.
Opom beine maked Lf Masaks had any reel progrem to ef eet
he fondemental ebangen whion lse insugars lon of n Jupeo
mose eelleetlvim seemed to imply, t. Seterer deseribed
Maseki's vlowe e follows:
"irat or all omerul nkl  an opronent of th
empitallst elaer.  ont eo rur xs to o ose the bie mavy
eates whm to rerie s enl on the armmente trde
beeeuse enot time a brt: lesnl? in bulls a big profie wont to
the Misls or wheever he pened to be the builamt.  wes
disslsesly dimsppelntme t the fellure of the presemt
d avl onterende.  evi onse or tnis etsitude
sowarde the mavel protlen, r. oheror s is tnst if one
rond between the lles of o) nel iteul's n seen nt
aho Alme rlal, publlmned last uiy, ons would se that
the Mazakl aroup In se ray aid li. lust re ret the allure
of the Conferenee walab res wred were Likaly lmorwaeed ea-
p fr wrhiprver   
   l in r thn 
omerel Foas. The type  nntlonell leb la elle
 pdlr for iti rsio tion n 
er of depe' rmies eu the s  timent a cot seem s
l inltrtrloti
wimbed inetemd to cultivete she trus aplrit  ol s am
as opposed to the wore lymtericul plutourtio netionsli
of se resomt dey.  rvored she emslo rohablllta
sim or the mgrioultural olnsses r  om nothlns efeative
bes Deem done by the presest Dover ent md he lse favored
meesres whleb wonld proete the wel ure a the ce mom
m in the vities. or forelm ef sire, r. sherer
deperibed amaks as beics very Priendly to the mlted tates
and memtioned mow Mmmaki hnd restralned eneral raki
whem she lstter's prepesande was porsuadlug seheolealldrem

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.77)
●●●
seabee whem they grew my.  the ether hamd, Geaerel
Mesaki esnstdered ovies ussle to be dapen's resl enemy.
Tais, ia brief, ls t. eherer'n voncesien or the man whem
t fesle the preeemt margemey has ut lu the seddle. lis
does mos shink shat erel eki hiself will enre to
 lg orrioe.   rerere to atmy ln the bakground
and he belleve no leel ovor n oen be orled
for a wk. Hor, it elould bo ttou, s r. norer
able to enswer our costlone nn lo heter snernl azakl
d e pecirie prorm in ind.
Im dlmouselng the svents leesing ur so the sresent
inontgemt movemtt, r. chorer e in  at one ot toe con
tribetery fmeters as seserel yesni's rotion lret su er
ln momding eo many of she mo-o lled ro uticnary rmy orrlcore
taril,   lrt t ftin subervint
to the tall intrlt o ltt th
  l n y t it 
pleim that theme men ere ctill to etrol  thnt no ree
somitlon of the arlevenges or the dlrnatimfies slesent.
he would be ohampinne of the wo le, sulu be wx eoted.
 b alld   sts. Ltt th roa ln it
He wont on to tnerpret the iriweree c the ooat arere]
alot  n l y.  ,  cs, s rel
vie ory in this sleetlon was won by sue proleterict perty
whies on Takehnenl's suviee nad not boem stifled on um formes
esoasiens. However, the alestion atre thoned the hold of the

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.74)
● ●
Governnene for the sime boing and, as thsy belloved
 Govereme te be the Lastrunent of the plutoerats,
eer ofrleere in the rmy ware geaded te cesperation.
Then cssurred she eireumstemee t as he irst ivisiom
 réed  ni. ere . erer re ated is
striming simile that these boye ths wore  sins te te shat
o the plalme or aneherie while teir pieters ore sold
imte preositutlem et home ned to do "at twy could before
200v1m6.
 herer we ked wuet ne onnidmred to be to
igot'e pesisloe in ell tls. e to  lod thet, as e krow.
   a   t lk noly, r
y oriin lt tht .irt wl no
be foroed out of o riue out did ot koo whether he bimeelr
would refer to resln or  os.
Carteln ekerlls wne the ked r o arer or ais initia
tive in arertime en o, orte ity for che ws ory to heer ale very
lvt
y
J..●

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/
994.00/620
SEE
FOR
Demp. #1721
FROM
Japan
Grew
March 6, 1936
..) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Chronicle of the events of the Feb. 26th uprising,
thru noon of March 6, 1936.
Forwards a -
contained in a l6-page deapatch.
kfc
KFC

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.80)
Bo. 171
T
The Monersle
Toeret
kasninston.
sire
bot  l  ni of brry
jmmier afrleere and men, mumberins sllocether sbout
l400 amd belongins to the Srd Imf ntry regimout of the
Imperlel Guarde Divicion end the lat and trd reglments
and tme fem Reavy irtillery regiment af tte lst Toxye

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.72)
m h fellie placse h retert
eideses  privete reeidnse o he loré
Sosle Somt Nebeekl skino, wes resl ics t the ticel
to frolel cestdeo of soe Frand becle
mimel Xaatero usaki) tho riveto rosiduñon of tho
Fimmmee Minister, r. Soroxiye s has i; and the
and cléiere are ared its eshie , rirlee and
b  prd  . ,
 b and colonel at, t reier' broter
tlew, wem instaatly kill e.
f
died paortly artmreerde frma sis wonné.
22
 r
 p in  maner wn so ns yut y the boey.
Tmio imforatln le met cives ln friciel colletlns.
the rebel sroup seleed control of ne tropoliten
Pollee Boerd, the er Grflee, the Comeral teff Dullde
Inde end the offlelel reeideaee of the  remler." The
mobels fles e amer fram tso istter builaing, a rough
temsletien of whien is es followe: "loyslty to the
Imperer ane ap vite the pure ray". They cald these
bualdsniee at least until the ovonlnd otf the sone hsy.
aeqy

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.68)
  l ld  leo  y
  lh  iot n n tni
buslaing was selzud.
I houl te oared ls ssine thet thase is wront
oper to te ffeet tst te lorrnte rereed tun ardere
nameuvers.
m  prr f  or of 
Coptaineonane pne
m he prens coveroeet s boee drreine oe Cren the
reat
t
lse, l0d 0
 to elminsterre
of
teloee
2
 fll
l atn fi
eriele at bose mnd abrood.
et Fremler ade med bnennntantly silis.
tl  l
He

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.64)
 of he uprieing " reeeived by t mbemy at
  rit the ri  lter eicenee t
olkthe mrnins of  outbrn md l e
wtl
m pled on  to  en inhe
mo nd forel pe rr de  d
i, pief of tho ovsi
af
11
 9
y
alos
rey dl
r
30
V
y
t i
noredtsaay
and

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.73)
that the Tokesu defenss squstron hed arrivud in Tony
met pesee and order were beins laleimsd. loutonant cone
al Eail lsued e st mat at l0r3s pot. to tte freet
that ho hnd moved sroope thsoughot tn a w) to rwerve
2
peese end to proteet impor ta nt butldtmgs.
 e ovenins of brry  at the nleter for
Ree Affeire, pes appol ed ae le orery etlns
 roported tt hairel  nd boon sfferd tae poet but
bmd doelined on the ground thnt ote wee  in oupert t tn the
cbt. thee ended  iret day.
y 
weriel Le wer den rne t  oloee  te rnin of
the young robel offiers 
rr
rn
 roportodly a cposted
of
for hepoot or rlr
treope." *
The pr ineipml reoeoe dur fhie ore r otadly I
folldm thet she se or foree slt politint iurgente
epmpothy mong the peeple for ts tivee w teh prropted the
rebroavy 27 1036.
b telem,
Pebrury 27 1 p.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.71)
h f rytho o 
 sesetery of tete bent on belf of the rie
at nd people." lso n the neme omi the 
l i lnl,y
 Mmlter for Forimfai,e dr to
2
me fomly of  realer cmds. then thst doed. in addie
 lled at e hours f mirl
ts to oxpress ayaps tiy mud ne toquicce aftes the
 t rid 
Mm In Tokye briefly explainles s reascme for te in
l nd aylne sat tre  o with resard
sryr
me beevily merded by veret troops.
mther teteat we la y taryo errleon
l in
he peblloation of nomape pers  ezians nnd edvortlee
mat i are reise e el for the re
 ln and pratin the el reh ivine
and septind of eapoe ené mni. orhip 
me telegrame poime cut of Jopen and slso on isteraatlon
al talephome ealle wae littsd later in the aigat.
Some time durins the svemls the rebels took over the
come Matel, whleh is alose to the  raster'e rosldence.
. 40,bury 9, l.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.74)
 e d  the rebeis et 8 p.  Tebrry 29.
Subeegetly seme sort of tempeery compramles wee reperted
 heve beem reeehed. ic eny ecne, if sush a compromise was
osehed it luter proved ebortive.
Fobruary .
Xr. Takanmett's deeth was announeed to ths puolie by the
Pimmee lietry on the  raias of ebrry 2s. tmeme or
takmheeni'e death wae not ofr:stell; saneuceed cefore, prot
ante to evold disturbing fl mnciel eircles. orormmmat
2
rip   coto rrn as rled durins
o moming bat put ia fores aein i ne afterneon. The
Parot Pleet prrived in ekye in t rn ss for prsteetive
prro but e plue aeets  ris vere eoded eee
th o were detelld t  t vyialatry
At eboet l0r50 on tho mormtae of rebruary 88, "eptaln
 erlff ted trts) quarr
mllo at the bay and atatad tt as attoet by the ot
 fors  lan nt e rebel i the
  o nt mer  therier
seetdemee durleg the afte rmoon; that terefore the abesey
ms asteated is è sone waich migt beease depgeroue from
stway bullots if flghting took pleees and thst therefore
he smmerisiee of the sartisl Lew Soadqunrtors sed as

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.86)
(the Captain)
bo mede fer ether alsstene altuated in the prebable
 me. I ls lateresting and signifleant to note
thae Gaptaie KSese Gueml, & responsible offieer of the
"layal" feress, esserted to the  esist ent ilitery steché
thes the ofrieers cnd soldlers esusine the trousle should
ms te called rebels and cdded: "e feel us they de bet we
bulseve is diseipline." It should be reecrked hare that
his esatement wes asde before the officisl condemnetion of
me imsergests as "rebels", which aame ftor the lattere'
rerssal to ebey she Iaperiel command in the eurly moraine
of Fobruary 29. In the late sftercoon, " responslole offi-
alal of the forelen Orrioe : avised the mbessndor thst the
demmender of the Pirst Divleien hes epprosched tho ineurgents
In the aftermoon witn an orier frn the mperor that they
ebey his conmands.*" me insurgents were roported to have
asreed to obey the aperor's commende ut costinued to nego-
slete as she question of whe, and under vhat cocsitions they
woald return to thelr arreoks. . friendly Japonese in
alese temeh with hish Govermmest officisls inforned the m-
be et Sses pom. tat an Lperlsl sitimntum had soen de-
livered te she insurgents at 3 o'aloox in tha ofternpon ar-
Gering them to disbene and returs to their Barreeks nnd that
the imemrgente hed slgairied that they would dioregare the
aréertee me Embassy's informant further stated thnt under
these sireumstenees the Sovermnant had éscided to take mili-

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.75)
 taree radle eañcunsements were sesucd stating tast
Se telge Gerrisen could tare 'a certein step" agelast
e remeiming inaurgent officure end troops.
FODrery BU
it about hit) nom. on Pobruery Bu, and witain the
osdime fow minutes, weverel soabers of tho mbeesy
stast sbserved four tass ecd from 10u to 23 soldiers prrssede
Ime qmsotly mst the shanecry tn the Airestion of the fremierts
midemee. thls feet snd subeegost moves sts of troope ané
sotas up of moetine swn sorrlcndes, coupled wl th a potlese
ate vlgllesee on the art of te tcurreotimary fereee in
the rrier's remideace ané is t
ante mo tnl, soemme to ln
te tht miltery setln si tae ple5 m n
rer to t lnurgete t bey arr's cond 
bremeemet soking taat they reuooslder tanir positlon nnd es
sortime thet they would we en sideres os rebels if they ree
fused to obey." Goneral
sr1l also lssuee a sommiqué at
 mplsisias the o t  t thopllesn
advising the eitimone "to reln at telr tomes wlthout be
las mieled by wild rmors. leoordi a to a resio anmounse
meat la sme morslns, cbout Jot of the robel troope ts the
vielmiw of he  anne Hot 1 hed sarre dered snd roturped 
heir beree. Leter, Gen ral mahil, as mnder of the
martial Lew Headgnorters, iasusd sn lastruetion to sue rebel
15
* mbesaye talegmem Se. 49, Yebruery 29, l9s6.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.70)
-100
r d should ret m to te flou of the y. tn
 lo  lek e vmms irpiune ade t flignte
er the rebele' henoguetere,  tle droppts leoflete
to f 
to seslmt woule be rebal a  ls srerore te ahet and
th
moldtere were "woeping
yf
wheroupes the retels 
nd lnt tho oo
the of the 
t
aJ
1
trefrlo reetriot! ns is
a
The eainelt
menben
2
l

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.73)
-110
l on atreey,brin e for of n
m le on hat any by t ating ebinet"
Anroa 1
2
Go  l rl in
 the nftormoon of tre l.
srmnt Ieouee e t ten t e ro  to raret or tho
10/
 f  pl: 
12
oftiore cojnene
2心
t

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.69)
a
Epertietgetion f the taren fomr ray of leere nd
m wi the til of iemn olomel l."
nren 3
It ee alenlo od on tue ufrmoon of are a tomt
wajer akoouke  mme, rrubesl, feolin roe poumlblllty for
asectry si t 
yrwr
 28
f   ney
rebel orfleern at ine
ine os Foruery w mhen he atr td ter the mulldls
T
taken dy varinue
eIn f
ane Meval ttarhhe
yt
 .173

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.68)
1.00
  he  ffle would, threfore, lie to
tomiee thels souffourn when they drove eround tn fity of
Toee" l tinunes f  oliey of followice the 
 lefor te
y pd thlfe  t rollly
yllu
si tn the orisns
trn fl
y
y  e
enk1
Priermon
 aye
t hlafor 
of resier.
mby ler o. re,1

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.66)
erer that he eould not com y with the imporlel
and te ferm e ablaet om mecount of bis poor heal th.
 mperie) oralmeee (mo. 1 publinhed in the
  reh  ereed tn y urt rtiel
 th ry of t   wo h Ji
w
m v " rrs i   it t ry o
1000."
l to  roport in 
re.
t
sprs r ounell d for
yo
FPri
 forllyoinco
of the Februery ro uprloins.
1
nlo offlolel ropleoe on
y
vr the tiv
of hemy  tef y
t
he polloen e olonelatlmteklme tho lrer for

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.68)
-180
fromler, esd sade no further sonro! re s r kade bid
8 "reeess in t oe rom" ou to af tornosm of Fsbruery 2y
pople who enlled et the resldemeo to offer onacolnnses were
lod to oalr mgling with ase pele, e re ior
foly lef tae Dulldig roins to s hose f 
   frld n   mn den ated
po  ootre to pey  ren yoror terr
Pebwary :)
he mperer and mpole ired  in a ety To te isnlaent
2
forr
It ms announood
T
se petin  
i
l
l

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.76)
Jeas Breedeseting tatlom and from the nomepe ore without
aveal, tat it ls k ped tret this ceapeton substenttally
l wn thprtl  an 
os peetfully youre,
Jorow
C
y
opyty.
300.
List of nclorres aeme

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.63)
LIST OF BOLGGURES ACGOMP ANTING
DA  29
DATH MANE  DG PAGN THE
0o8
JAATI
:1
Notsee frem war brriee, vobzwary 29, 18s0)
claám fren the J , Friday, Febru
asy 20, 10201
"mdey Haren 1, 1036
la frm   ,y,r
Tremeletiom af arttele appesrias in he T t l
E
Extma No, S, aturamy, February , leses
án Fm the kMonday,  
fhey
lime from the  v, rey,   ls

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE..24.00/627
FOR
Memorandum
State Dept.
Far Eastern Div.
(Cov11l.) DATEDr-17.1956
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1187
894.20/
Coup d'etat of Feb 26, 1936: Regarded as one more incident
REGARDING:
in the effort toward making the voiee of the military
organization completely authoritative in the affairs of
state. Comments on the army's connection and possible
trend of future relations, in the international field, as
they might be expected to be effected by-, and the reaction
which is setting in.
5
6
FRG.
18

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE...Q4.0O..P.R/98
FOR
1693
894.20/ 160
FROM .....Japan.
Grew
) DATED
7ob 21, 1936
TO
NAME
1-1127
The Army: The public trial of Lieutenant-Colonel Saburo Aizawa,
REGARDING:
who killed MaJor General Tetsuzan Nagata, Chief of the Mili-
tary Affairs Bureau of the War Ofrice, August 12, 1935.
FRG.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
(b)
The Army.
The public trial of Lieutenant Colonel Saburo Aizawa,
who killed Major General Tetsuzan Nagata, Chief of the
Military Affairs Bureau of the War Office, on August 12,
1935, was opened at the Court liartial of the First Division
on January 28. In the fornal charfe a ainst Aizawa it
was stated that since about l930 he had been worrying
about the future of the nation; that since about June,
1933, he had become convinced of the necessity of reform-
ing the War Ministry, as the Army had failed to unite
for the clarification of the national polity spirit;
that
* Embassy's telegram No. 14 of January 18, 1936

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
that he had taken an antipathy for General Nagata in the
belief that the General was hindering the national reforma-
tion under the pretext of control of the Army; and that
his antipathy had become mcre intonse when General Masaki
was relieved of his post of Lirector General of Military
Education since he believed General Nagata responsible
for Masaki's dismissal. On the second day of the trial
the counsel for the defense said that the spirit of the
Showa Reformation of the Army was represented by Lieu-
tenant Colonel Aizawa; that youn officers of the Army
sincerely desired to remove all outside influence from
the Army so that it would become truly the Army of the
Emveror; and that if the true pirit of Aizawa was not
understood there would appear  second Aizawa and a third
Aizawa and other persons determ ned to effect reformation.
When questioned concerning Genere Nagata by the Chief
Judee, Lieutenant Colonel Aizawa stated his belief that
the General had had a political ambition to ally himself
with the veteran statesmen, bureaucrats, and wealthy
"daimycs" to advance his own interests. This trial, which
attracted widespread attention in the press because of
the political implications involved, was carried over
into the month of February for further hearings.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
800.20294/2
FOR
1225
894.20/
FROM
Tokyo
Garrels
-) DATED
March 23, 1936
TO
NAME
1-1187
Proposed Jupunese lav to prevent divulgence of comiercial in-
9
REGARDING:
formation on Jupunese fuctories.
Taking of aerial photographs of such so-called vital centers
as Tokyo, Osaka and agoya will be prohibited, this amongst
other provisions.
FRG.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/7875
Tel.#217-4pm.
SEE
FOR
894.20/162
China
Johnson
pr.30,1936
FROM
) DATED
119111
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING: Changes in status of Japanese military in North
China (Hopei Province): Roports -,which is said
to be for purpose of showing the Chinese the"fixed
determinstion" of the Japanese military and of enhancing
the status of Lieutenant General Tada. Sets forth
changes in North China Garrison ani in the Japanese
Imbassy Quard at Peiping.
fpg

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
-FE
0
2
FS
GRAY
Peiping via N. R.
Dated April 30,1936
Rec'd 7:50 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
7874
217, Apri1 30, 4 p. m.
Reference paragranh six of the Embassy's 213, April
793.94
29, 3 p. m.
The Embassy is reliably informed that several changes
are being made in the status of tho Jananese military in
Hopei Province for the purnose of showing the Chinese
7875
"the fixed determination" of the Japanese military and
of enhancing the prestige of Jieutenant General Tada's
position vis a vis other Japanese military. Appointmont
of the commander of the North China garrison will hereafter
be made directly by the imperor, thereby putting the post
in the same status as that of commanders of the Kwantung
Army, the forces in Chosen and Taiwan districts. Presum-
ably Tada will receive tho first appointment as he has
recently been raised in rank. As a result of the approach-
ing increase of tho strength of the North China garrison
(which Japanese sources state will bo double the present
number) the Japanoso Embassy guard in Poiping will be
raised

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
2-No. 217, April 30, 4 p. m. from Peiping
raised from the status of a regiment to that of a
brigade. The present Commander, a lieutenant colonel,
1s being renlaced by a colonel. At the same time, the
brigade will be comunanded by a major general who will
have under him two lieutenant colonels. There will
thus be en exceptional number of high ranking officers
in Feioirg,  cl vin Major General Matsumuro, head of
the military missior staticned et Peiping which is under
the North China garrison. Metsumuro is assisted by a
major; assistant military attache cont inues to be a
major.
By mail to Tokyo.
KLP
JOHNSON

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/7898
Tel.#240-1pm.
SEE
FOR
894.20/
China
Johnson
May 13,1936.
FROM
-) DATED
1701111
NAME
1-1187
163
REGARDING:
Construction at Tientsin of new barracks for
Japanese garrison: Gives full information
regarding -.
fpg

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
GRAY & SPECIAL GRAY
FS
Peiping via N. R.
894.20
Dated May 13, 1936
Rec'd 7 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
240, May 13, 1 p. m.
ReferencE paragraph 6 of Embassy's 20l, April 20,
2 p. m.
OnE. The ConsulatE Gen Eral at TiEntsin has rEcEived
+6
confidential information from an American through whosE
firm thE lumber which is bEing used in thE construction
7898
at TiEntsin of nEw JapanEsE barracks was purchasEd. His
information is given in paragraph tvo.
Two. On a first contract 750,000 fEet of lumber
was delivered to JapanesE contractors. This amount is
Estimated to bE sufficient for thE construction of a
onE story building 40 feEt widE and 4000 fEEt long.
The JapanesE contractors say thet they arE under contract
with the JapanEsE garrison at Tientsin to comnlEtE the
barracks by thE end of May, having been told to Expect
the arrivel in JunE of 50oo troops to bE housEd in thE
barracks. A sEcond contract now calls for 300,000 fEEt,
Either for thE purposE of enlarging the barracks or of
constructing an aerodrome.
ThreE.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
FS
2-No. 240, May 13, 1 p. m. from PEiping
ThreE. The Consul General at TiEntsin reported
May 5 that the construction work is bEing carried on
rapidly, thE walls and a part of thE roofs of ten or
more buildings nearing completion, and that work is
also being donE on roads giving access to thE barracks.
By mail to Tokyo.
KLP
JOHNSON

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
500.A.15.a5/783
FOR Tel 106 noon
SEE
FROM .....Japan
Grew
) DATEDMay15.1936.
894.20/164
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Construction of fortifications and ships. Newspapers quote the
Minister of the Bavy as stating to the Budget Committee of the Diet that Japan
seems to be apprehensive of the cost that may be incurred if a race develops
in the -.
G

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
258
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 3, 1936.
Tokyo's No. 1821 of May 12 reports
the sentenoing to death of Colonel Aizawa,
slayer of Major General Nagata. Aizawa
has appealed his case to the higher
Court Martial.
The Embassy stated that while it is
impossible to predict the outcome of
appellate trial, the fact that the death
sentence has been imposed in the court of
first instance is significant in view of
the lenience extended to similar
assassins in the past and in view of the
sympathetic attitude of the court in the
first Aizawa trial, held before the
February 26 incident.
894.20/165
W1
FE:WTT/DLY

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.90)
269
U
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 12, 1936.
No. 1821.
SUBJECT:
SECOND TRIAL AND DEATH SENTENCE OF
LIEUTENANT COLONEL AIZAWA.
THE UNDER SEGRETARY
PAE STA
136 U1  1 49
1936
QIONS
 RDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATI
DVISIN OF
ECEVED
9
MID
ONL
894.20/165
COPIES SENT TO
U.N.I. ANDM I.D.
E STE
Cofary n FE(381)
Tib
F STE
Division of
A-C/0
FAR EASTERN AL!AINS
JUN2-1936
Department of Stute
The
The Searetary of State,
UA 12 1936
Washington.
894.20/145
Sir:
With reference to the Embassy's despatches No. l450
1,55
of August 23, 1935, No. 1707/or Merch 5, 1936, and No.
894.00/635
itan
1746 óf Maroh 20, 1936, concerning the murder on August
12, 1935, of Major General Nagata by Lieutenant Colonel
Aisawa and the trial of the assassin from Jamuary 28
to February 26, 1936, I have the honor to report that
F/FG
the War Office announced on May 9 that Aizawa had been
sentenced to death on May 7 by the Court Martial of the
First

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
2:60
-8-
It will be remembered that Lieutenant Aizawa's first
trial, whioh had a direct bearing on the recent insurrection,
was indefinitely postponed on February 26; that subsequently
his trial was suspended fifteen days, which necessitated
a complete re-trial under the provisions of the Court
Martial Law;* and that the military authorities have
during recent weeks reportedly been seriously consider-
ing the elimination of all "direct actionists" from the
Army.** On April 7 Dr. Somei Uzawa, who in the first
trial had exerted his utmost efforts to bring out the
patriotic motives of the accused, resigned as a counsel
for Aizawa, possibly because of his responsibility for
the manner in which the trial had been handled and hence
for the February 26 Incident. Aizawa's second trial was
opened on April 22 and there were five hearings in camera.
The date of the resumption of the trial was not publicly
known until the War Ministry's announcement of the death
sentence was made. In the following statement of the War
Office, issued on May 9, it will be noted that the reason
given for holding the hearings in camera was that public
hearings would have been disturbing to public order:
"The Aizawa case was for some time under
examination by the court-martial of the lst Div-
ision. With the outbreak of the February 26
incident, a change was made in the presiding
judge, and the re-trial was opened on April 22.
There were five hearings. The presiding judge
suspended public hearings because the proceed-
ings, if published, would be disturbing to public
order. On May 7, the judge announced the decision,
and on May 8, Lieutenant General Aizawa appealed."
In
994.00/135
* mbassy's despatch No. 1746 or March 20, 1936.
**mmbassy!s despatoh No. 1784 of April 17, 1936.
894.00/645

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
261
-3-
In accordance with the provisions of the Army
Criminal Code, the higher Court Martial for Aizawa
must be held within thirty days of his appeal, which
was made on May 8. The War Office authorities issued
an interesting statement concerning the sentence of
the Court Martial, a translation of the text of which
1/
is enclosed, as published by the JAPAN TIMES of May 1l.
While it is impossible to predict whether the higher
Court Martial will uphold this decision and Aizawa will
actually meet his death as a result of the murder, the
death sentence laid down in this case may be considered
as highly significant in view of the lenient sentences
passed on the perpetrators of similar political assassi-
nations in the past and also in view of the fact that
the first trial of Lieutenant Colonel Aizawa, which was
held before the occurrence of the February 26 Incident,
seemed to have little or no connection with his confessed
guilt and seemed to be much more concerned with sympathy
for his political motives. There may be an indication
in the Court Martial's decision of May 7 that the War
Minister is, as he himself has asserted in recent Diet
sessions, seriously intent upon establishing rigid dis-
cipline in the Army and punishing those guilty of direot
aotion methods.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
nolosure:
1/ stated.
800.
GDA:C
Copy to mbassy, Peiping.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
262
Enclosure No. / to despatch
No./82/ dated May 18, 1936.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Monday, May 11, 1936.
War Office Statement
Nagata as one possessing political
ambition, and joining hands with
"Concerning the assassination of
senior
statesmendesiringthe
Lieutenant-General Tetsuzan Nagata
maintenance of the status quo,
by Lleutenant Colonel Saburo Ai-
bureaucrats, and financial leaders,
sawa. the most regrettable point is
oppressed the refcrmation infuence
the violation of Army discipline. Dis-
In the Army, and attempted to make
cipline is the life of the Army, and
the Army the private soldiers of
whatever might have been the causes
those controlling classes.
for the act of Lieutenant-Colonel Ai-
"As the concrete facts for proving
wa in killing Lieutenant-General
his conviction, he pointed out:
Nagata, it violates discipline, and his
(1) The oppression on the refor-
act comstitutes a serious crime.
mation movement;
"The motives and causes of the act
(2) The movement concerning
are mainly as follows according to
the suspected revolt case of Mura-
the trial by the court martial:
naka and Isobe of November, 1984:
"The main ceumem of the ect are
(3) Intrigue in respect to tho
the personality of Lieutenant-Colonel
transfer of the Superintendent-
Aisawa, his ideas concerning laws,
General of Military Education, and,
and the issue of numerous secret
(4) Unsatisfactory efforts
for
publications. The personality of
clarifying national polity.
Ldeutenant-Colonel Alzawa s pure
No Support For Beliefs
and hanest, and he has deep respect
"Underimpartial examination;
for the Emperor, but he is rather
these points had no facts to support
simple, and failed to grasp rightiy
them, and it is found that he reck-
various developments, his thoughts
lessly believed secret publications
often lacked deep consideration, and
and irresponsible words of his col-
being extremely sensitive, monetimes
leagues, and his opinions were baced
was in danger of going astrey from
on dogmatic inference caused by his
the normal path. Being unable to
prejudices.
view facts coolly. he was stimulat-
"This person of pure sentiments
ed by secret publications and other
was thus carried away by mecret
factors, and thus came to violate
publications, and had taken mistaken
Army discipline, break the law, and
steps. The Army greatly regrets his
oarry out a direct action.
act, and expects to prevent such sl-
Motive For Action
milar cases by strong maintenance
of discipline. In also removing other
"The basis of his motive was his
causes that might lead to such con-
belief that the future of the nation
sequent, the Army wishes to pre-
was in danger and that reforms must
vent the circulation of secret pub-
be made in order to restore the
lications which were the direct
unity of the Emperor and subjects.
cause of his action.
Since 1929 or 1980 he belleved that
"Often, such assassinations of high
developments showed a retraction
publio offolals had been caused by
from national polity and the publio
instigators in the background, and
recognition of national polity became
weak,'and not only the public lack-
the publ'c had also some fear'that
ed the idea of supporting the Im-
Lieutenant-Colonel Aisawa had suck
perial Family but their thcughts. be-
instigators, but upon examination, it
came confused, and in political.
is proved that it was an st om.
diplomatic, and economic felda,
mitted solely by Lieutenant-Colonel
evils accumulated. Upon this be-
Aizawa, and there are no collabora-
torg
lief, he regarded Lieutenant-General

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
263
:Phillips:
To noto digart.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF EAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE UNDER SECRETARY
June 19, 1936.
DEPARTMANT LA
Tokyo's No. 1876 of May 29, 1936,
discusses two bills, introduced to the
Diet by the Hirota Cabinet, called the
Seditious Literature Emergency Control
Bill and the Mobilization Secrets Pre-
servation Bill. The former bill passed
after considerable revision whereas the
latter bill failed of passage.
The struggle over these two bills
was the outstanding feature of the
recently concluded Diet session and aroused
great interest on the part of the public.
Both bills were of a reactionary character;
the former sought to impose further
restrictions on freedom of the press while
the latter bill was designed to add further
safeguards to military and important
industrial secrets. The Government had
attached great importance to these bills
and brought considerable pressure on the
Diet to offect their passage.
The Embassy points out that large
issues were involved in the struggle over
these bills. The Diet was fighting to
preserve individual liberties from
onoroachment while the forces of
bureaucracy and militarism were arrayed
in opposition to liberalism and liberal
government.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
government. The press and the public
stood squarely behind the Diet in opposition
to the Government's demand.
The Embassy comments that the contro-
versy over these bills demonstrates that,
subject to regimentation as the Japanese
are, there is a limit to their docility.
The Embassy considers that the controversy
reveals that the public mind since
Fobruary 26 is more healthy than the
Government's profects would lead one to
suppose.
The Seditious Literature Bill was
passed only after penalties for its
violation had been lightened and after
it had been branded as temporary, emergency
legislation. The Seiyukai and Minseito
parties attached resolutions which
emphasized the emergency nature of the
law and enjoined the Government to respect
freedom of speech and personal rights in
administering it.
The despatch is well written and
worth reading if time permits.
894.20/166
W1
FE:WTT/DLY

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.94)
7E
264
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1876.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 29, 1936.
SUBJECT:
SEDITIOUS LITERATURE BILL AND
MOBILIZATION SECRETS BILL
STVIS
936 UN   11 09
COMMUNICATIONS
N REDS
RECNED
894.20/166
6
16ni
MiD
894.2
Cipy an FE (381)
COHES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM.J.D.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
DEPARTMS
JUN 1 7 1936
JUL 2 1936
FILED
Department of State
OF STATE
The Honorable
OF STATE
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
I have the honor to report that the introduction
to the Diet by the Hirota Cabinet of the Seditious
Literature Emergency Control Bill and the Mobilization
Secrets Preservation Bill aroused stubborn opposition
both within the Diet and among the public to regimen-
tation and the invasion of individual freedom by
repressive legislation. The struggle against these
bills

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
265
-2-
bills provided the most oustanding feature of the
69th Diet session.
The Seditious Literature Bill was introduced to
the Lower House on May 14 and the Mobilization Secrets
Bill on May 18. The Government sought by the former
bill further power to suppress pamphlets, "secret
documents", and the distribution of unsigned or un-
censored literature tending to subvert army discipline,
disturb the existing financial organization of Japan,
or provoke public unrest. By the latter bill which
was to supplement the Fortified Zone Act and the Mili-
tary Secrets Preservation Law it sought further power
to safeguard military and important industrial secrets
against the perils of international espionage.
. This
latter bill failed of passage, being abandoned without
a vote, whereas the former passed only after considerable
revision lightening the penalties for its violation and
renaming it so as to brand it as temporary, emergency
legislation. All parties were opposed to these bills
while the minority parties, the Kokumin Domei and the
Social Mass party were most uncompromising.
The Embassy will transmit a translation of the
authentic text of the Seditious Literature Emergency
1/
Control Bill when available. Meanwhile there is enclosed
with this despatch a clipping from the JAPAN ADVERTISER
of May 26 setting forth the terms of the amended bill as
given by the DOMEI news agency and including two reso-
lutions attached by the Seiyukai and Minseito parties
which

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
206
-3-
which emphasize the emergency nature of the law and
enjoin the Government to respect freedom of speech and
personal rights in applying it.
The Hirota Cabinet attached great importance to
these bills. As evidence of the pressure which it
brought to bear on the legislators and which they in
considerable measure resisted, it may be mentioned that
on two occasions, one shortly after the introduction
of the bill and the other while it was in committee
in process of revision, rumors were circulated that the
Army would seek an emergency Imperial Ordinance to
effect the purposes of the Seditious Literature Bill if
it failed of passage; that the Cabinet Ministers from
the Seiyukai and Minseito parties were sent to implore
their respective parties to modify their attitude towards
the bills; that the Prime Minister, as well as the Home
Minister, the Justice Minister, and the War Minister
reiterated the Government's desire for the passage of
the bills; and that the Diet Session was twice prclonged
(for a day each time) in order to allow time for the
passage of the amended Seditious Literature Control Bill.
At the same time it does not appear that the Government
ever elucidated the precise meaning of the bills before
the Diet as a whole or that it ever dispelled the con-
viction that it was legislating concerning offenses
against which ample remedies had already been provided
by law.
The

=== Page 78 === (confidence 1.00)
267
-4
The nature of the controversy and the sincere as
well as searching examination to which the bills were
put may best be indicated by reference to points brought
out by interpellators and by rebuttals on the part of
the Cabinet Ministers. On May 14 Mr. Toshiyuki Hisayama
of the Seiyukai stated in a lengthy interpellation on
the Seditious Literature Bill that if there were freedom
of speech in Japan deleterious pamphlets would cease,
that if army reform took place an effective end would
be put to the circulation of subversive pamphlets, that
if army discipline were good, the army would be proof
against the effects of subversive literature, that if the
bill were passed Japan would revert to the underground
politics of the closing years of the Tokugawa Shogunate,
and that if it were passed the public would be at the
mercy of policemen making arrests in the hopes of
securing promotion. He further asked who it was that
the War Minister imagined was circulating pamphlets to
disturb the control of the army and whether the Govern-
ment imagined that public uneasiness could be dispelled
simply by law. Others emphasized that there were already
enough laws and that the Government should concern it-
self instead with root causes while the Social Mass
party, claiming seditious literature to be the reflection
of prevailing social unrest, said that to legislate
against it without stopping the source of the evil would
only intensify the public uneasiness. Opposition to
the

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
248
-5-
the bill was rendered especially intense by a virtual
admission on the part of the Director of the Police Bureau
of the Home Office that advocacy of the overthrow of the
Hirota Cabinet would be regarded as sedition under the
bill. Further opposition and ridicule was aroused by
the Government's claim that in applying the bill the
presence or absence of seditious intent on the author's
part was the test of criminality; mere awareness that
public disorder might result from his writings did not
incriminate an author but intent to incite it would.
The principal rebuttals on the part of Cabinet
Ministers were brief and were repeated again and again.
The Home Minister freely admitted that it was inevitable
that freedom of speech and the liberty of the press should
be restricted to a certain extent but declared that the
bill would be carefully administered. The War Minister
claimed that pamphlets were circulated for the purpose
of disturbing the control of the army, not because the
control of the army was lax. The Prime Minister stated
that the bill was to restore peace to the public mind
and prevent a repetition of the recent deplorable in-
cident. Existing circumstances, he reiterated, made
it necessary. It may be supposed that further explana-
tions by the Government were advanced in secret committee
sessions. In the foregoing paragraphs, however, is set
forth the nature of the developments which terminated
in the passage of the amended bill during the closing
hours of the session, by the Lower House late on May 25,
by

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
249
-6-
by the House of Peers on May 26.
In reviewing the Cabinet's struggle with the Diet
over these two bills it is at once obvious that large
issues were involved. The Government claimed that the
whole state of the nation, whose stability was called
into question on February 26, needed the remedy provided
by these measures. The Diet on the other hand, while
fighting to preserve individual liberties from encroach-
ment, was also aware that the rival forces of bureaucracy
and militarism were arrayed in veiled but nevertheless
real opposition to liberal government. In a sense the
Diet was fighting to justify its existence and it ac-
quitted itself creditably. In so doing it identified
the Government in the public mind with regimentation
while it clamored itself for reform not repression.
The two bills considered in this despatch were the sub-
ject of great publicity and the public and press stood
squarely behind the Diet in opposition to them. The
following which appeared in the YOMIURI on May 28 is by
no means unique and, in the light of the struggle over
the sedition bill, the reference to the Government is
inescapable.
"There have been few times in the past at which
the people were called upon in a greater degree
than at present to become intelligent and display
their power of unity. But on the other hand, the
unpatriotic evil hand is being extended all the
more to suppress speech and interfere with efforts
deslgned to awaken the people to become more
intelligent."
t

=== Page 81 === (confidence 1.00)
270
-7-
It is still too close to the event to tell whether
there is in prospect a continued damming up of natural
forces which will render the national stability more
precarious but, it may be pointed out, the Japanese
have in the controversy over these bills, demonstrated
that, subject to regimentation as they are, there is
a limit to their docility. They have held out stub-
bornly for the preservation of their individual
prerogatives. When, during a discussion of the unsuc-
cessful Mobilization Secrets Bill, a Diet member claimed
that the sanctity of conversation in that great Japanese
forum, the public bath, was threatened, the bill was
doomed forthwith. The Government leaders were made to
realize that they could go no further. Whether this
implies a change of trend cannot be predicted but the
developments and considerations set forth in this
despatch suggest at least that the public mind since
February 26 is more healthful than the Government's
projects would lead one to suppose.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
Clipping from the
JAPAN ADVERTISER,
May 26, 1936.
820.02
JGP:a

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
271
No. 1876, May 29, 1936, from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, May 26, 1936.
In accordance with this view of the
temporary nature of the bill. its title
was changed to Seditious Literature
Emergeney Control Law.
The text of the amended
bill was
given by Domei as follows:
Article 1. Persons found responsible
for publishing or circulating litera-
ture, documents or illustrations con-
taining material with the object of dis-
turbing military order or financial cir-
cles or the peace and order of the
public mind. or containing false reports.
which do not bear the name and ad-
dress of the responsible publisher. and
specimen copies of which have not
been submitted to the authorities con-
verned in accordance with the press
law and the publication law. shall be
punished with a prison term. with or
without hard labor, of not more than
three years.
Article 2. Persons found responsible
for publishing or cireulating literature,
documents or illustrations. containing
material specified in the preceding
article. which do not bear the name
and address of the responsible pub-
lisher. and specimen copies of which
have not been submitted to the au-
thorities concerned in accordance with
the press law and the publication law.
shall be punished with a prison term.
with or without hard labor, of not more
than two years.
(The difference between Articles 1
and 2 apparently consists only of the
omission in Article 2 of the provision
that the items must be circula:, "with
the object of" creating the distance
specified, and of the lighter p y in
Article 2.)
Attempts Also Punishable
Article 3. Persons found attem, ng
to commit the offenses specified i. he
two preceding articles shall be punisi.
ed but in case the printer surrender:
before making delivery of the printer
matter to the publisher, he shall be
exempted from punishment.
Article 4. Local Governors (in To-
kyo Prefecture the Superintendent of
the Metropolitan Police Board) are
authorized to confiscate any literature,
documents or illustrations and the
plates used, disclosing facts held to be
within the purview of Articles 1 and
2 when suppression of such matter has
been found necessary, even before the
required specimen copies have been
submitted to the authorities concern-
ed, and those distributing such sup-
pressed material shall be fined not
more than 300.
Supplementary provision. The law
shall be enforced from the day of its
enactment.
The Minseito and the Seiyukai de-
cided to attach the following two re-
eolutions:
1. In view of the object of the en-
actment of the present law, it should
be regarded as extraordinary legiala-
tion. Therefore, the Government
should exert efforts for the removal
of the present social unrest, and to
abolish the law as soon as possible
2. In enforcing the present law, the
Government should use

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/292
Desp.#1864
SEE
FOR
894.20/
Japan
Grew
May 28,1936.
FROM
) DATED
1t6/1
NAME
1-1187
167
REGARDING:
Amendments of the Regulations governing the
organization of the Army and Navy Departments,
and providing thst appointment to the posts of
Minister and Vice Minister of the Army and Navy
Departments shall be confined to generals and
admirals on the active list.:Translations en-
closed.
rpg

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./101
Desp.#1829
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
May 13,1936.
FROM
) DATED
1x0/1111
NAME
1-1127
Japaneae army: Investigations conducted for
REGARDING:
the purpose of determining the identity of and
eliminat ing all officera knom to advocate the
8
direct action methods. Other facts concerning
the Army.
fpg
0

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15 -
(b). The Army.
Army officials conducted investigations for the
purpose of determining the identity of and eliminating
all officers known to advocate direct action methods.
It appeared that the moderate elements in the Army were
in control and were making an effort to decrease the
possibility of further incidents such as those of May 15,
1932, and February 26, 1936. A rumor was current during
the month to the effect that the intemperate element in
the Army was discontented with this state of affairs and
was determined to cause more trouble.* At the conference
of garrison and division commanders held on April 8,
General Terauchi, the Minister for War, emphasized the
need of enforcing military discipline and at the same
time admitted that the clarification of the national
polity and augmentation of armaments were equally im-
portant. Although largely responsible for putting down
the movement of insurgent officers at the end of February,
Lieutenant General Kohei Kashii, Commander of the Tokyo
Garrison and the Martial Law Headquarters, was relieved
of hi s posts and placed on the waiting list on April 2
because of his formal responsibility for the February 26
incident.
There was much discussion by the press during the
month concerning the necessity for an increase in Army
personnel, an improvement in the air force, and augmenta-
tion of the defense forces in "Manchukuo" and North China.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
169
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
711.94/1113
FOR
Letter
894.20/1
FROM
Davis, Norman H.
) DATED
June 17, 1936
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
69
Japanese Army: In its program of conquest and expansion,
the-, had felt it was responding to the demands of public
opinion; now the wiser element, which is getting more in
control, realizes an impossible situation has been created,
and calls are being made on the diplomats for help. Fore-
going according to Mr. Yoshida in conversation with Mr.
Norman H. Davis.
FRG.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 18, 1936.
Tokyo's 1912 of June 23, 1936, transmits
translation of the Seditious Litorature
Bill. This law was designed to enable the
government to enforce a stricter control
over the dissemination of information and
opinion, and was particularly aimel at
the secret and "seditious" publications
that have been giving the authorities
cause for worry.
Since the February 26 incident the
authorities have felt the need for even
more rigid control of "public thought".
894.20/170
W11
WTTVDLY

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.93)
08079
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1912.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, June 23, 1936.
SUBJECT: SEDITIOUS LITERATURE BILL.
COPIES SENT TO
O. N.I. AND M. I.D.
894.20
E
00
SNC
CSA
Casmmurce
894.20/170
Ay
4m
13
0n1
MiD
Cohiygin FE( 381)
Division of
A·C/C
EA  ATE
NRY
Department of State
Honorable
0/0-V
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
JUL 2 1936
FILID
166
ith reference to the Embassy's despatch No. 1876
of May 29, 1936, I have the honor to transmit herewith
a translation prepared in the Embassy of the Temporary
Law for the Control of Seditious Documents. The law was
promulgated and published in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE of June
15, 1936, and went into effect on that day.
The terms of the law are similar to those of the JAPAN
ADVERTISER translation of the DOILEI version which was for-
warded to the Department as an enclosure to the despatch
already

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
already referred to. It will be noted that the dis-
tinction between Sections 1 and 2 which somewhat re-
semble each other lies in the heavier penalty provided
for persons who not merely publish seditious documets
but do so with malicious intent to obstruct ilitary ais-
cipline, to unsettle financial conditions, or to other-
wise disturb the public mind.
In advance of the promulgation or this law the
Ministers of Justice and of Home Affairs are reported to have
issued certain instructions in re ard thereto.
on June 8,
in a lengthy address to high juaicial officiels of the
nation the .inister of Justice stated that the utmost
caution should be exercised to avoid infringements on
the right of freedom of speech but that at the same time
the laws of the nation must be strictly enforced. On June
11, the Minister of Home Affairs despatched instructions to
the prefectural governors end, according to DoiEI, empha-
sized that, as the sunpression of the secret publication of
seditious literature was the objective of the law, all secret
and underhanded means of spreading ideas must be combatted.
Moreover, in enforcing the law the governors were instructed
that penalties were not to be imposed on "dummy editors"hired
for the purpose but upon the actual persons responsible for
the disseminetion of seditious literature. Both the Justice
Minister and the Home Minister in their respective addresses
of June 15 and 16 before the annual conference of prefect-
ural governors in Tokyo referred to this law and urged its
careful enforcement in view of the "rampanoy of seditious
literature" and because of the existence of "dark under-
currents at work" in the nation.
When

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
When issuing his instructions the Home Minister
is said to have reviewed the newspaper and publica-
tions laws and to have cited certain misa prehensions
with regard thereto which indicate that all printed
matter is apparently subject to official scrutiny and
may be subject to anplication of the seditious literature
law. The misapprehensions warned against and which in-
dicate the inclusive nature of Japanese censorship were
reported by DOMEI as follows:
1. The belief that the mere marking of nimeographed
or printed matter as mimeographed or printed "to
avoid the trouble of writing" will free those
responsible from the requirement of publishing
their names and filing copies with the authori-
ties.
2.
The belief that printed matter distributed only
to special groups such as reports of organizations
and companies need not be filed or bear the nemes
of those responsible.
The belief that if the printed matter consists
of only one sheet that it need not comply with
the requirements of the law.
Both as an indication that the authorities apprehend
public unrest and as evidence of the importance of the
seditious literature law in the general scheme of Japa-
nese official regimentation it may not be out of place
to report that an article in the ASAHI of June 5 declared
that the police bureau of the Home Office feared that the
lifting of martial law in Tokyo would result in an out-
break of political meetings, an outbreak of capital-labor
controversies, a revival of the activities of reforming
societies, the printing of seditious literature, and op-
erations by international spies and communists. The
article

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.95)
- 4 -
article went on to state that to deal with this disquieting
situation adequate control measures with emphasis on pre-
ventive policing were being prepared. Vigilant enforce-
ment of the seditious literature bill, which the YOMIUkI
recently branded as a humiliation to a civilized country,
may therefore be exnected.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph . Grew.
820.02
JGP:r
d 

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
despatch No.1912 of June 23,
1936 from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation by the American Embassy, Tokyo,
CAC:r
Temporary Law for the Control of Seditious
Documents.
(Law No. 45, dated June 13, 1936 and published
in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE of June 15, 1936)
Article 1. Persons who, with the object of ob-
structing military discipline, of unsettling financial
conditions or of otherwise agitating the public mind,
have published or distributed documents or pictures on
subjects disturbing to public peace without printing the
names and addresses of the persons responsible for such
publications or who have given false names or addresses,
or who have not complied with the provisions of the Publi-
cation Law or the Press Law in regard to the submission of
copies of publications to the authorities, shall be sen-
tenced to penal servitude or imprisonment for a period
of not to exceed three years.
Article 2. Persons who have published documents or
pictures on the subjects mentioned in the preceding article
without printing the names and addresses of the persons
responsible for such publications, or who have given false
names and addresses, or who have not complied with the pro-
visions of the Publication Law or the Press Law in regard
to the submission of copies of publications to the authori-
ties, shall be sentenced to penal servitude or imprisonment
for

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
for a period of not to exceed two years.
Article 3. Persons attempting to commit the of-
fenses mentioned in the two preceding erticles shall be
punished, but a printer shall be relieved of guilt if he
confesses prior to delivery of the printed matter.
Article 4. Governors (the Chief of the Metropo-
litan Police in Tokyo Prefecture) may seize the printed
copies as well as the printing block of documents or pic-
tures, which are deemed to come within the purview of
Article 1 or Article 2 when they recognlze the necessity
of preventing the distribution of such publications pen-
ding the insertion of the true particulars (publisher's
true name and address) or submission of copies of the pub-
lication to the authorities as prescribed by law.
Persons who have distributed documents or pictures,
the distribution of which has been forbidde1 under the
provisions of the preceding clause, shall be assessed a
fine of not to exceed three hundred yen.
Supplementary Rule.
This law shall be enforced from the day of its
promulgation.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./103
FOR
#1942
FROM
Japan
Grew
-) DATED
Ju1y 13, 1936
894.20/
TO
NAME
1-1197
General Military affairs: Army in favor of the establishment of
REGARDING:
an Air Ministry; plans in progress for the organization of
a body of ex-service "intelligentsia" to act as medium of
contnot between Army and the people; present status of trial
of those charged with participation in the Feb. 26 incident;
seizure of seditious literature in connection with the incident.
FRG.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 1.00)
(b). The Army.
According to press reports, the Army was strongly in
favor of the establishment of an Air Ministry, in contrast
to the lukewarm attitude adopted by the Navy in this matter.
894.20
It was stated by the JAPAN CIIRONICLE of June 23 that Army
authorities
* Embassy's despatch No. 1955 of June 8, 1936.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
- 17 -
authorities were eacer to make Japanese aviation "the best
in the world five or ten years hence . Speculative reports
based on statements made by the ar and Mavy Ministers during
the recent Diet session have placed the Army'. budget for
1937-1938 as hi{h as ¥750,000,000.
The JIJI of June 18 reported that plans were being made
for the organization of one million collee and university
craduates who have served in the Army as cadets into a body
of ex-service "intelli entsia" to act s a medium of contact
between the Army and the people for the realization of the
renovation policies of the Government and of the national
mobilization plans of the Army.
On June 24 the Liaison Officer of the .ar Office told
the Embassy's Military Attaché definitely thet the officers
and non-comnissioned officers who participated in the
February 26 Incident were still undergoinc trial; that the
trial of the ringleaders vould probably be comleted before
July 10; that the punishments decreed by the court would be
announced to the people before any sentences were executed;
that martial law in Tokyo would probably not end by July 10
as announced by the press; and that a date when the Army
hoped to lift martial law had been fixed but could not be
announced because it would be necessary to consider the
situation when that date arrived.* This information was
interesting in view of runors extant that many of the leaders
of the uprising had alreody been shot.
It wes reported by the JAPAN TIMS of June 26 that the
authorities had discovered and seized the first seditious
literature since the passage of the new law to suppress auch
publications
* Enbassy's telegram No. 140 of June 24, 1936.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.95)
- 18 -
publications,* a pamphlet entitled "Non-comnissioned
Officers and Privates ho Took Fart in the February 26
Incident".

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, August 5, 1936.
894.20
NO. 1966.
SU JECT:
ANNUAL AIR DEFESE : AILEUVERS.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
56 A   30
(S)
894.20/172
S
F.1
t111
MID
he
e.9.c.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG 25 1936
Department of State
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
SEP2-1936
FILED
Washington.
Sir:
The Fourth Annual Air Defense maneuvers affecting
the cities of Tokyo, Yokohama, and Kanagawa were carried
out between nightfall on July 20 and daybreak on July 24.
It was reported that about 25 patriotic organizations
participated under the command of the civilian Air Defense
Associetion which in its turn received instructions from
月
the Eastern Air Defense Headquarters of the Army. In
addition

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
addition to some 220,000 members of the Patriotic Air Defense
Association the newspapers stated that 20,000 members of the
Women's Petriotic Association and the Women's National De-
fense Society participated, as did members of the Young Men's
Association and Boy Scouts troops.
The conditions announced by the authorities for the
maneuvers were that at any time during the four-day period
air attacks on the three cities would be attempted by planes
representing "a certain Asiatic power from the west" and"a
certain Pacific power from the east". The "Pacific power
from the east" (meaning, of course, the United States),was
supposed to be approaching with a large naval fleet, includ-
ing aircraft carriers. The problem was of course to repel
the invaders, minimize fire damage from incendiary bombs,
protect the puslic a ainst poison gas and provide first aid
to the injured. Furthermore, and perhaps the most important
objeotive of the maneuvers was to effect complete light con-
trol during the four nights of the air raid.
Observers reported that the members of the various
patriotic organizations in the three cities performed their
duties of firefighting, rescuing, and maintaining light
control exceedingly well on the whole and exhibited the
proper amount of enthusiasm. However, there was some edi-
torial criticism of the apathy with which the public co-
operated. Whereas during the alarms announcing the beginning
of night air raids by the enemy, all citizens were supposed
to extinguish all exterior lights and to cover interior
lights sufficiently so that they could not be seen from
more than 30 metres, the authorities complained that most
of the populace merely put out their lights and went to
bed

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
bed or wandered abroad in the darkness, thereby failing to
comply strictly with the regulations. It was apparently
not the intent of the defense headquarters to have the
cities in complete darkness at all times but merely during
the alarm periods, inasmuch as complete absence of light
might promote robbery, immorelity, and other lawlessness.
Moreover, light control was not intended to interfere with
continued operation of industries, transportation systems
or hospitals. The police mobilized a force of l6,Oo0 men
to maintain order in To yo during the night air raids.
During the daytime there were several flights of
enemy planes over the cities and in each case the referees
pronounced that the majority of the raiding planes had been
brought down by anti-aircraft guns and by defending planes
and the others driven away before much damage had been done.
Preparation against night air raids was of course of more
importance because of the inability of defending planes
and artillery to combat them successfully unless the enemy
planes in order to identify the cities were forced down
within searchlight range. The only night air raid was
staged on July 23 when light control had reached its great-
est effectiveness. The pilots of the "enemy" planes an-
nounced that the three cities could not be identified from
farther away than 20 kilometres whereas on the previous
nights Tokyo couldbe identified from 40 kilometres. The Air
Defense Headquarters also announced that in order to do
effective bombing the raiding planes were forced to descend
to 1,Ooo feet, a much lower altitude than was the case in
previous years, because of the almost perfect light control.
The

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
The Eastern Air Defense Headquarters of the Army was
reported to be well satisfied with the results of the air
defense maneuvers not only because of the effectiveness
with which almost all lights were controlled --- fires from
one or two factories were the only flagrant exceptions re-
ported --- but also because the general public appears to
have become accustomed to an emergency situation which would
not differ greatly in the case of a real enemy air raid.
This year's maneuvers differed fro those of preceding years
in that emphasis was laid upon the possibility of an air
attack from the east occurring simultaneously with one from
the west. It is understood that while the authorities were
satisfied with the protective work of patriotic organizations
in cities and with the light control as being effective
against a small number of invading aircraft, they are natur-
ally apprehensive regarding an eventuality involving an
attack by hundreds of modern enemy planes from both the
east and the west. Bearing in mind the limitations of the
present equipment in both anti-aircraft guns and fighting
planes the Home Ministry looking to future defense against
air raids is understood to have advocated a drastic change
in the architecture and layout of the capital. According
to the plans already made, Tokyo should have 3oo-foot wide
arterial avenues as heavily wooded as possible, water reser-
voirs camouflaged with rocks, communication and power lines
placed underground, widened alleys, few if any wooden struc-
tures in the city, fire and bomb-proof basements for all
large buildings, improved fire fighting equipment and in
general an observance of the idee of decentral ization and
less congestion in all seotions of the city. Aocording
to

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
to the press, the Home Ministry plans to introduce its
municipal air defense bill at the next session of the
Diet with a hope of its enforcement by April of 1938.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
821
INH:C
Copy to Embassy, oscow.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 4, 1936.
Tokyo's 1976 of August 6, by Mr.
Coville, gives an interesting account of
recent shifts and promotions in the Japa-
nese Army.
Changes in personnel continue to be
affected by the desire to correct the
lack of discipline manifested in the
February 26 incident. Some three thou-
sand changes were ordered on August 1,
ostensibly in accordance with routine
practice. Actually a number of officers
who were thought to be sympathetic with
the insurgency were removed from impor-
tant posts.
The most important change is the ap-
pointment of General Sugiyama as Inspec-
tor General of Military Education -- one
of the "triumvirs" of the Japanese Army.
General Sugiyama is wholly unconnected
with any faction or group in or out of
the Army.
General Isogai. formerly Military
Attaché in China, has been appointed
Chief of the Bureau of Military Affairs
in the War Office. Close connection be-
tween Tokyo and the North China garrison
is thereby assured.
W1T
WTR:EJL

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.94)
7
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 1976.
Tokyo, August 6, 1936.
SUBJECT: JAPANESE ARMY SHIFTS AND PROMOTIONS, AUGUST 1, 1936.
COPIES SENT TO
894.20
V.1 A0M.10
36 A   30
111
894.20/173
MID
AAUG 2 5 1936
Department of State
The Honorable
SEr - 1936
The Secretary of State,
FILFD
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that on August 1, 1936, in
accordance with the usual practice of the Japanese Army, ex-
tensive shifts and promotions were ordered. The list included
some three thousand shifts and promotions. Practically all
the changes were of a routine nature and they were announced
in routine manner without special explanation, but several
obsorvations with regard to the list are worth noting:
(1) The changes affected by the list of August 1 are
universally received by the press with approval, as materially
contributing to a correction of the lack of discipline in the
Army whioh had its worst manifestation in the incident of
February 26, 1936. Without ostentation, and simply in the
routine
K

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
routine course of changes, the list removes from important
posts a number of officers who were thought to have been
sympathetic to the insurgency but who were not implicated
in a manner direct enough to warrant trial. Colonel Sadaichi
Suzuki is one such officer. ie previously served in Tokyo
and was attached to the abinet Investigation Bureau. By
the list of August 1 he is transferred to an unimportant
provincial ost.
(2) The list of August 1 was drafted by the War Minister
and approved by the Emperor. This is the first list since
1913 which has not been submitted to the joint approval of
the War Minister, Vice Minister of War, and Inspector General
of Military Education. The new procedure is in accordance
with Imperial Ordinance No. 21l of July 24, 1936, which placed
personnel matters directly under the authority of the War
Minister. The Government has hoped by this means to improve
discipline in the Army and to remove from factional strife
a question which has been troublesome during the last four
years. It should be mentioned incidentally thet the Army
is in large measure protected against abuse of this concen-
tration of personnel power in the War Minister by reason of
the fact that Imperial Ordinance No. 63 of May 18, 1936, re-
quires that the War Minister be an officer on active service
in the Japanese Army. When the joint control of personnel
matters was originated in l913 it was not necessary that the
War Minister be on the active list.
2
(3) Of the individuals brought to important posts by
tho

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
the August 1 list the most outstanding is Lieutenant General
Gen Sugiyama who becomes Inspector General of Military Edu-
cation. General Sugiyama is a well trained Army man, completely
regular in his ideas, and wholly unconnected with any politi-
cal groups or factions within or without the Army, so far as
is known. His appointment appears impartial and has been en-
thusiastically received.
(4) The list of August 1 continues the close relation
between the War Office and the North China Garrison which
has been growing from the time of the incident of February
26th. Within the Japanese Army the Kwantung Army, which
serves in Manchuria, has developed,since and slightly before
193l, a unity of its own, particularly in political and economic
ideas. Now that the Kwantung Army is confined, by agreement,
to activities in Manchuria and Mongolia, and activities within
the Wall fall to the North China Garrison, close connection
between the War Office and the North China Garrison has some
significance. An example of this connection is the fact that
4.
Major General Rensuke Isogai, who last year was Japanese
Military Attaché in China, is now Chief of the Bureau of
Military Affairs in the Ministry of War.
Respectfully yours,
Nooh. Jan
Joseph C. Grew
822.
CC:g
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/
SEE.....893.00.P.R./119
FOR639
FROM ...China
(...Johnao.....) DATED ...Auga.l&..1936.
TO
NAME
1-1187
174
REGARDING: Japanese military conference at Shanghai with regard to
Sino-Japanese relations on July 1l and 12.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.72)
 imertet Juemee milltary lere o
 n Jui    i    
me raletsons. These astonding inelued suo of iesre
 Tolaye Gememal , the hter of ta of he orth
ime Gi,y e   y,
mucter of offieere restdemt in vorioue arts or hine. The
Japmese snbesender wms re er toe by the press also so nove
been in attanxdanee.
The ony infoomat los available a tn ro ar to the tonos
of the isounlone wer  absoquent asatoen or aor
Gral Himo ateri of he oyo onoral tatt to the of
foat thet there wne a dif oonee of vions aong thome at
tondine ané she atasosonleutonant olonol an a
hesht of he Touyo coneral tars, font rly asistant i
tory  t i i.t.ho rfoott 8 ap
p oul nllve hsy,t i
Jopo relatioe cil hot o in rot mloe the eti 

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.71)
-9.
Goveem elieaetes mpletely anei-Jepensse feelins.
and that the nepei-chaber Falisleal counedl aam be con-
celidated 1f talented mam are mdded to it.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
1991
FOR
SEE ...894.00.P,R./104
Aug 20,1936
FROM ...JaDan
1-1127
NAME
TO
894.20/175
The Japanese Army: Developments of July, 1936.
REGARDING:
FRG.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
-12 -
(b). The Army.
It was announced by the War Office on July 3 that
0
Lieutenant Colonel Saburo Aizawa, murderer of Lieutenant
General Tetsuzan Nagata, had on that day been executed.*
An announcement was made by the Var Office on July 7
(see
to the effect that of 19 officers, 75 non-commissioned
officers, 19 privates, and 10 civilians tried for partici-
pation in the February 26 Incident the following had been
sentenced: 13 officers and 4 civilians to death; 5 officers
to life imprisonment; 1 officer, 17 non-commissioned
officers, and 6 civilians to imprisonment of from 2 to 15
years; 27 non-commissioned officers and 3 privates to
imprisonment of from 18 months to two years, with stay of
execution for three years. In the judgment handed down by
the court martial the reason given for the sentences of
death and life imprisonment was that the officers concerned
had employed the Imperial Army without Imperial sanction.**
The announcement of the War Office stated further that the
court martial had taken into consideration the purity of
the young officers' motives but had been forced to condemn
them for the reason stated above.***
On July 12 the Ministry of War issued a second announce-
ment to the effect that 15 persons sentenced to death on
July 5 had been executed on July 12.**** Of these 15 men,
13 were former officers of the Army and 2 were civilians.
No mention was made of the other two civilians sentenced
to death on July 5 and it appeared that their execution
had
*
Embassy's telegram No. 147 of July 3, 1936.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 149 of July 17, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 1935 of July 8, 1936.
****
Embassy's despatch No. 1952 of July 22, 1936.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
had been postponed to enable the court martial to gather further
information from them.
Martial law in Tokyo was lifted at midnight on July 17,
about four months and a half after it had been decreed.
According to a War Office communiqué issued on July 31,
the court martial on July 29 sentenced Captain Ichitaro
Yamaguchi and 5 other Army officers to varying terms of
imprisonment.* Captain Yamaguchi was sentenced to life
imprisonment on the charge of having connived at the plans
of the insurgents. The sentences of the 5 other officers
varied from 4 to 6 years.
On July 25 it was announced in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE
that on August 1 the Army's Air Force would be concentrated
under a newly instituted Air Force Headquarters which would
be commanded by a general or a lieutenant-general appointed
directly by the Emperor and which would be comparable in
status to the War Ministry, the General Staff, and the
Inspectorate-General of Military Education.
It was reported that the War Minister desired appro-
priations of ¥3,300,000,000 during the next six years for
the replenishment of national defense. It is thought that
a large part of this sum will be used in strengthening the
Army's air force and in increasing the Japanese military
forces in Manchuria to approximately the same strength as
that of the Soviet Far Eastern Army.**

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
15-
The JAPAN TIMES of July 16 stated that the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry had decided to submit to the
next session of the Diet & cill providing for the control
20
9943
of Japan's foreign merchandise trade by the Government.
It was reported that the Home Ministry was preparing
an air defense law, the principal provisions of which are:
the bill if enacted into law will be applicable to the six
largest cities of Japan; in Tokyo the 15 wards in the
central part of the city will be set aside as the first
fire zone, where wooden frame buildings will be prohibited
and where, if possible, all houses will be provided with
basements; in the 20 remaining wards, which were formerly
outside the city limits, boulevards 300 feet wide known
as "velvet zones" will be constructed to afford'shelter
to refugees in time of emergency and also to serve as
transport roads over which anti-aircraft guns and other
armaments can be easily moved; all city telephone, tele-
graph, and lighting wires must be laid underground; alleys
and side streets will be widened sufficiently to allow the
easy passage of fire engines; and gas tanks and reservoirs
will be concealed. The OSAKA MAINICHI of July 3O under-
stands that the law is scheduled to go into effect on
April 1, 1938.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.20
Tokyo, November 13, 1936.
No. 2135
SUBJECT: MOBILIZATION PLAN ADVANCED BY THE ARMY.
PAI  ATE
32
17.
(ant. (Bldg -)
(S)
11 WV
EED
IVVISISN OF
036
4
EBC
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDMI.D.
894.20/176
A
 E
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
C
Washington.
I have the honor to refer to previous despatches re-
in projects for governmental administrative reform and
DEC 3= 1936
national policies generally and to report that the local
FILUD
press has recently published a proposal made by the Army
for the enactment of a plan for the mobilization of the
nation's resources. The plan as reported would affect
all basic industries as well as capital, labor, transporta-
tion and communication and would be much more extensive
than anything of that nature heretofore undertaken.
The
F/FG

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
The following is an outline of the proposal as it
appeared in translation in the local press:
"1. Replenishment of essential raw ma-
terials not available in Japan, such as various
light metals, mercury, iron and oil, must be
carried out in time of peace.
2. Sweeping changes need to be made in
production facilities to permit production of
large quantities in the shortest possible time.
For one thing, the facilities in factories of
all sizes should be standardized.
3. Provision should be made to utilize
all available labor in an emergency. Should
war come, the textile spinning mills would have
to be curtailed because of the difficulty of
exporting, with the result that women operatives
would be available for various war industries.
4. Undeveloped sources of hydro-electric
power should be exploited on a large scale through
enforcement of the plan for State control of the
power industry.
5. A special war-financing agency is needed to
control use of funds and prevent an outflow of
capital.
6. Provision should be made for military use
of civil aeronautical facilities in time of war.
7. National health must be improved.
8. Mobilization of marine transportation
must be facilitated.
9. Mobilization of foodstuffs and fuel must
be made possible.
10. Provision should be made for spiritual mo-
bilization of the populace.
DOMEI understands additionally that perfection
of the plans for mobilization is the aim or the army in
pressing for reform of the local administrative ma-
chinery. The present system is held unsatisfactory
for the following reasons:
1. The present local administrative divisions,
which parallel army units to a large degree, is in-
convenient from the army's standpoint.
2. In view of the urgent necessity for
strengthening the defense of important centers
against air raids, the present administrative sec-
tions are too smail for the proper defense facili-
ties.
3.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
3. The existing local facilities in
connection with staple natural resources are
unsatisfactory. Those of central and provin-
cial areas should be co-ordinated in preparation
for an emergency."
Experience gained in the World war brought forcibly
to the attention of the Japanese the necessity for plans
for the general mobilization of the country's resources.
As a first step toward this end the Government, in l918,
promulgated the Mobilization of Munitions Industry act,
providing, among other things, for a gradual adaptation
of certain industries to munitions production. Later on,
in l923, the Army, in ordor to extend the measures provided
in this law, formed in conjunction with the Navy, a joint
board for the mobilization of the war material industries.
The Army, however, desired more adequate legislation and
prevailed upon the Government to enact additional laws.
In May and July, 1927, the Government promulgated two acts
providing for investigation and control of national resources.
This was followed in 1929 by the Resources Investigation Act
to provide fcr a more complete survey of all national resources.
While the foregoing legislation represents successive
steps in the Army's mobilization plans, the Army apparently
has not been satisfied with the results so far obtained, and
taking into account experionce gained on the continent since
the promulgation of the 1929 Act, it would seem that the
effort now reported to plan for the complete mobilization
of the nation's material and man power is the logical course
for the Army to pursue to attain its objective.
Respegtfully yours,
Dkm
E.R.Dickover
Chargé d'Arfaires ad interim
820.
J.F.MoG:g

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 7, 1936
Tokyo's No. 2136 comments on another
Japanese army pamphlet issued on
November 5. Like previous pamphlets,
this issue attempts to builc up ponular
support for the army, and is not unrelated
to increased budgetary denands to be
presented to the anproacl in Diet sessicn.
The most important political aspect
of the pamphlet is that it proclaims the
backing of the army for a totalitarian
state as the proper form of covernment for
Japan.
The pamphlet states that tle eynote
of Japan's foreign policy is tlreefold:
(1) the sound development of "anchuluo";
(2) harmony between China, "Manchukuo"
and Japan; and (3) the consolidation of
Japan's position as the sole stabilizing
force in the Far ast.
The Tmbassy states tlat reaction
to the pamphlet has been indifferent as
the nublic has become accustomed tc ar
Office propaganda.
894.20/177
WH
WTTXDLY

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
7E
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2136
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, November 13, 1936.
894.20
SUBJECT: JAPANESE ARMY PAMPHLET OF NOVEMBER 5, 1936
J
on
MiD
COP
894.20/177
O.N.1
Bee
530m
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF
JEC1936
A
OF STATE
ThePonorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
JEC 11936
Sir:
FILED
1/
I have the honor to transmit herewith a clipping
from the JAPAN ADVERTISER of November 6, 1936, containing
a Domei summary of a pamphlet issued on November 5, 1936,
by the press section of the Japanese War Office. En-
2/
closure No. 2 is a clipping from the same paper for
F/FG
November 1l giving a translation of two sections of the
pamphlet

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
pamphlet omitted from the Domei summary. The pamphlet
has to do with military armaments and the spirit of
preparedness. I am informed that the Military Attaché's
office is preparing a complete translation of the pamphlet,
and if the complete translation indicates the advisability
of further comments by the Embassy a later despatch will
be submitted.
Like the similar pamphlets of October 1, 1934, and
 September 5, 1935, reported in the Embassy's despatch
1122
September 7, 1935, this issue has been printed in large
numbers and generally distributed throughout Japan in
the effort to gain popular support for the army. The
fact that the army is presenting ambitious budget demands
to the approaching Diet is undoubtedly the particular
reason for the publication. Most of the pamphlet is
given to a review of expenditures on Japanese armaments
and a statement for the necessity of a renewed effort in
military preparedness. It speaks of a 10-year plan of
army replenishment. Of political interest in the con-
tents of the pamphlet are the following:
The army attempts to claim priority for
military appropriations by reason of the Govern-
ment's already having placed national defense at
the head of its list of national policies.
The pamphlet states that the keynote of
Japan's foreign policy is threefold: (1) the
sound development of "Manchukuo", (2) harmony
between

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
between China, "Manchukuo", and Japan, and (3)
the consolidation of Japan's position as the sole
stabilizing force in the Far East.
The chief external dangers to Japan are con-
ceived to be, first, the continued efforts of the
Soviet Union to make the communist system predominant
throughout the world, and, second, the arming of
China. Increased armament is necessary to equal
Soviet Far East military preparations.
The army finds it advisable to assure the
populace that increasing armaments are not a cause
of war, and furthermore that military expenses are
not unproductive but are a large factor in maintain-
ing industry and trade and sustaining the income of
the farmers.
The most important political aspect of the
army pamphlet of November 5, 1936, is that it
proclaims the backing of the army for a totalitarian
state (zentai shugi-teki kokka) as the proper form of
government for Japan. In the present internal political
state of Japan this pronouncement is worthy of particu-
lar attention. The pamphlet states that the public is
apt mistakenly to suppose that it is the intention of
the army to establish a military dictatorship or a
militaristic fascist regime, repudiating the parliamen-
tary system. The pamphlet goes on to give the assurance
that the intention of the army is nothing more than to
mobilize the nation's wisdom and to prove itself a
force

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
force for necessary reform through constitutional
procedure for the end of national defense. The
assertion is also positive that administrative
renovation is necessary to rebuild the state and
permit a rational totalitarian system.
The press of Japan has given wide publicity to the
publication of the army pamphlet but comments on the
pamphlet itself have been rather restrained. Army pam-
phlets have been so numerous that the public has ceased
to be excited by them. The YOMIURI welcomes the pam-
phlet's arguments for increased military appropriations
but states positively that the proposals for political
reform should be considered only with the greatest caution.
The Tokyo NICHI NICHI finds the pamphlet chiefly an
elaboration of the statement of the War Minister to the
previous session of the Diet to the effect that replenish-
ment of defenses is necessary, and thinks that the public
will not be much impressed by other features of the pam-
phlet. It also points out that armaments have a definite
bearing on international relations and cannot be determined
simply by a country's own free will. The KOKUMIN praises
the pamphlet but does not mention any of its political points.
三
In general the reaction to the pamphlet has been indifferent.
Respectfully yours,
E. R. Dickover,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Enclosures:
1. Clipping from the JAPAN ADVERTISER,
November 6, 1936, entitled "Need for
Strength Explained by Army".
2.
Clipping from the JAPAN ADVERTISER,
November 11, 1936, entitled "Army on
Continent Viewed Inadequate".
800
CC:a

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No./,to despatch
No.e136, dated Nov.13,1936.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Friday, November 6, 1936.
NEED FOR STRENGTH
lic. In his opinion the military should
explain their plan instead of talking
abstractly about the need for stronger
EXPLAINED BY ARMY
defenses. Nor could Mr. Ando ap-
prove entirely of the idea of a totali-
tarian State given in the pamphlet.
Domei's version of the publication,
in abbreviated form, follows:
I. Preamble
Pamphlet on Replenishment
After attention is called to the Eu-
and Spirit Accompanying It
ropean situation. where war is con-
sidered likely if the strain in relations
Being Distributed
between nations eager to maintain the
status quo and those anxious to break
it and between the "people's front"
POLICY OF SOVIET CITED
nations and totalitarian nations be-
comes too severe, the pamphlet says
that no single nation can hope to be
untouched by waves raging outside
Military Dictatorship Denied
and continue sas follows:
Aim in Advocacy of Totali-
"There seems no need to describe
Japan's international situation, for it
tarian State
has been treated amply in newspapers
and magazines. In brief, the difficul-
ties Japan faces arise from the deve-
The time has come when all ob-
lopment of its national strength. espe-
stacles to replenishment of the mili-
cially the friction with regard to its
international prestige since the Man-
tary strength of Japan must be over-
churian incident. These difficulties
come. regardless of the sacrifices en-
are but the ordeal which any rising
tailed. says a new pamphlet issued by
nation must inevitably undergo. From
the army. titled "Replenishment of
the standpoint of national defense. the
Army Armaments and the Spirit in
intensity of the crisis is even greater
Which It Is to Be Effected." of which
than during the Russo-Japanese War.
30,000 copies are being distributed.
The introductory portions call at-
on which Japan staked its fortunes,
tention to the European political situa-
and at no previous time in history has
tion. the policy of the Soviet Union,
there been more need for the people
which is claimed to be essentially
to 'buck up.!
world bolshevization. and the growing
"The military authorities, responsible
armaments of the U.S.S.R. and China
for defense of the nation. it goes
The main section traces the plans that
without saying. and also the Govern-
have been made to strengthen the
ment have come to realize that all
Japanese army and shows how they
obstacles. no matter how great, must
were sidetracked up to the time of the
national defense in view of the current
be swept aside to obtain security in
Manchurian incident. The new plans
international situation. That the Gov-
are outlined briefly, followed by de-
ernment has placed national defense at
nials that they will bring on war or
the head of its list of national poli-
mean unproductive expenditure.
In the concluding section, the army
committed, and that public opinion is
cies, to enforcement of which it is
sets forth its view that national de-
whole-heartedly supporting this bes-
fense requires a totalitarian State.
peak eloquently the realization of this
Dictatorship Denied
.necessity."
In addition to what is given of this
II. Spirit of Armament
section in the following version of the
Replenishment Plans
pamphlet, summarized from a Domei
Admitting that the public has a right
report, the Asahi quotes as follows:
to know why the 10-year program for
"With regard to the national defense
replenishment of armaments formulat-
State planned by the army, the mis-
cd by the army is necessary. the pam-
understanding is liable to be enter-
phlet says that realization of the na-
tained that it is the intention of the
tional polity of Japan, the gravity of
army to bring about a military dicta-
the current situation and the present
torship or a militaristic Fascist regime
status of Japanese armaments is es-
by repudiating partiamentary politics.
sential.
The army regrets this greatly. The
"No reiteration is needed," it con-
intention of the army is nothing more
tinues, that the keynote of Japan's
than to effect general mobilization of
foreign policy is to guarantee the
the wisdom of the whole nation and
sound development of Manchukuo. to
to prove itself a propulsive force for
attain perfect harmony among China,
the attainment of necessary reforms
Manchukuo and Japen and to consoli-
through constitutional procedure in
date Japan's position in the Far East
order that a national defense State
as the sole stabilizing force in this
may be built."
area, in parallel with efforts to help
Commenting on the pamphlet, Mr.
the 'leaping advance' in national
Seijun Ando, chief secretary of the Sei-
strength."
yukai, asserted that there is no need
For comparison, though the parallel
for the army to distribute 300,000 co-
figures for Japan are not given, at
ples of it just at the time when the
least in the Domei version, the num-
new budget is being formulated, for
bers of men, aircraft, anti-aircraft
the Japanese people, who are more lo-
guns and mechanized units in the So-
yal to the State than other psoples.
viet, American, British, French, Ger-
are fully aware of the need for strong-
man and Italian armies are listed. The
er defenses. By publishing the pam-
Boviets are credited with 1,800,000 men.
sincsrity of the Diet and the pub-

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
III. Examination of U.S.S.R.
pansion. The Chinese now have 14 air
This section is divided into three
units with 785 planes, most of them
parts:
American, though Italian planes have
A. Soviet Foreign Policy
increased of late.
"The fundamental keynote of Soviet
Domei omits the next two sections,
foreign policy remains, as before,
titled Minimum Military Strength Need-
bolshevization of the world. The mask
ed for National Defense and Limits of
of 'socialism for itself alone' has been
Armament Competition.
donned for only the time being be-
VII. Why Has It Been Impossible to
cause of domestic circumstances.
Replenish Armaments in Real Earnest?
Soviet conspiracy and conditions at
The depression following the World
home were exposed in the addresses
War created financial difficulties that
of Propaganda Minister Paul Joseph
brought pressure to bear on armament
Goebbels and Dr. Alfred Rosenberg a:
expenditure. and at the same time, says
the Nazi Party congress in Nuremberg
the pamphlet. doctrines of peace and
on September 10. The objective of the
"the decadent sentiment among the peo-
Soviet Union in the east is Japan. and
ple nurtured by the prosperity during
in the west, Germany. as the declara-
the war. fusing with liberal thought."
tions of Chairman V. M. Molotov and
gave rise to a demand for curtailment
Wa Vice-Commissar M. Tukhachev-
of armament costs. The 45th session of
sky at the January meeting of the
the Diet approved a shortening of the
Central Executive Committee show
term of military service and an eco-
clearly.
nomy of ¥40,000.000 in military expenses.
"In pursuing these fundamental aims
To meet this situation, the army
the Soviet Union has concluded alli-
adopted the 1922 adjustment plan.
ances with France and Czechoslovakia
whereby officers and men were reduc-
and commercial and non-aggressior
ed by 54,000 and horses by 13,000. or
pacts with Britain and other European
the equivalent of five divisions. These
Powers. by means of which it seeks
and further reductions in 1925 curtail-
to deal with Germany. In the Fai
only an emergency increase during the
ed the army to such an extent that
East, it is plotting to obstruct the ad-
vance of Japan on the continent by
Manchurian incident averted serious
conspiring with Powers having influ-
danger to national defense. it is
claimed.
ence in this area. Since entering the
The 1922 adjustments results in an
League of Nations, the Soviet has been
economy of ¥350,000.000 in 11 years
elated at its diplomatic success in Eu-
starting with 1923. Simultaneously.
rope. Gaining confidence from its re-
there was some mechanization, and
plenishment of armaments in the Far
light machine-guns and infantry artil-
East, it has uttered violent threats,
lery were added. As this was viewed
caused trouble on the Soviet-Manchu-
inadequate to remedy defects in arma-
uo and Manchukuo-Mongolian bord-
ments. ¥9.500.000 was asked yearly
ers. crossed the frontiers in violation
from 1923 to modernize equipment. but
of treaties, attacked and killed or
there was no question of meeting
wounded Japanese garrison troops. in-
world standards of armament.
cited Manchurian soldiers and natives
Because of the financial burden on
to mutiny. kidnapped Manchurians and
the Government following the 1923
Koreans, seized Japanese fishing craft
earthquake and fire. four divisions and
in northern waters and committed
auxiliary units were abolished under
countless other outrages. utterly disre-
the 1925 adjustment program, involving
garding Japan's protests and demands."
34,000 officers and men and 6.000 horses.
B. Soviet construction in the Far East
This brought a saving of ¥17,580,000
The Soviet constructive program in
in ordinary expenditure and ¥14,040.-
the Far East is said to be designed to
000 in extraordinary, and this money
control traffic and communication with
was used to provide two tank com-
Moscow and create economic strength
panies, 10 air companies, six anti-air-
to make the Far Eastern Army, self-
craft companies. two illumination com-
sufficient. Transportation is admitted
panies, one balloon company and vari-
to be several times superior to that near
ous laboratories and other scientific
the end of the Russo-Japanese War. As
facilities. placing the army on a par
evidence of what has, been done in
with those of the Powers toward the
economic development, the consumption
end of the World War but no more.
in the Far East of 46 per cent of the
Move Economy Asked
electric power generated in the whole
Stil! further cavings were demanded
U.S.S.R. is cited. Self-sufficiency in
because of political circumstances, and
focd is said to have been attained.
the army obliged by curtailing expen-
C. Strength of the Soviet Army
diture by ¥51.500.000.
Besides 200.000 men in special units.
Going back to the end of the World
the Soviets are credited with an army
War, the pamphlet says that when the
of 1.600,000 officers and men. of whom
navy adopted its so-called 8-8 fleet
300,000 are in the Far East. Of the
plan in 1918. the army decided to in-
5,000 planes and the same number of
crease its strength to 25 divisions. The
tanks, 1,000 of each are in the Far East
necessary money was not available, and
Moreover, the Soviet army is still grow-
as a substitute it was decided to re-
ing.
plenish defense over 15 years, ending
the 1935-36 flscal year. Expenditure
IV. Chinese Armaments
was to be moderate until 1928. Under
There are said to be roughly 2,000,000
the 1922 adjustment plan, however, the
Chinese soldiers, most of whom can be
date for completion of the program was
put in the field in a foreign war be-
postponed to 1939, and after the 1923
cause of the recent centralization. Japan
earthquake it was put off to 1941. The
cannot ignore that they are being fast
1925 adjustments resulted in a reduc-
converted into an efficient fighting ma-
tion of 1.400,c00 in the ensuing 10
chine because of training by foreigners
years of the replenishment program,
and improved equipment. With the as-
and intended expenditures of 117,000,-
sistance of the United States and other
000 during this period were postpon-
Powers, they are building up a huge
ed until later years. With the 1987-
air force.
 flscal year, further reductions and
During the Shanghai incident, says the
postponements became annual events,
pamphlet, the Central Army had only
and in the 1930-31, budget alone 37,-
about 100 planes, and the fliers all fled
000,000 was dropped for expenditure in
for fear of annihilation. General Chiang
later years. In the next fscal year.
Kai-shek has since been making the
about 910.030,000 was discarded entire-
Chinese air-minded, and the United
ly and f0,000,000 put off, some of it
States is said to have taken advantage
until as late as 1941.
of this to conclude with the Nanking
When the Manchurian inek

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
3
Sapan made it impossible to delay re-
IX. Military Costs and Finances
"Renovation of general administra
A long-range view must be taken of
tion is stressed so much today,"
at the front even carried wooden ma-
armaments, argues the pamphlet.
chine-guns, to the astonishment of for-
Much time is required before a divi-
goes on, "because the situséton
eign observers. The army formulated
sion can be made into an efficient wea-
growing more and more in such a
the so-called emergency armament im-
pon. Unless preparations are made
direction that unless egoistic and in-
provement plan, to cost 2500,000,000, of
which 300,000,000 was to come from
in times of peace, war will find the
nation helpless. Two kinds of arma-
dividualistic institutions and liberal
the funds earmarked for the old re-
ments are distinguished, those made
politics and administration are over-
plenishment program. but advanced in
necessary by national characteristics,
hauled and the political orientation 
date, and the remainder from fresh ap-
geographical relations and internation-
the nation fundamentally changed
propriations. Confessing inability to
al position and those required in ma-
there can be no hope for advance of
go into details, the pamphlet says that
king adjustments to international cir-
the national fortunes, prosperity and
improvements since the Manchurian in-
cumstances. called relative arma-
the happiness of the people. From
cident have been limited to adjustments
ments. Wen Powers closely connect-
the standpoint of national defense, ad
in strategic materials and maintenance
ed with the enforcement of Japan's na-
ministrative renovation is needed to
of peace and order in Manchukuo. The
tional policy are spending enormous
rebuild the State on the basis of the
army is still far from on a par with the
sums on expansion of armament, the
Japanese spirit and in accordance with
post-war or ultra post-war armies of
pamphlet says. it is only natural that
the requirements of modern arma-
other Powers.
need should arise for more relative
ments. permitting establishment of and
Defense Burden Shouldered
armaments. The armament expendi-
rational operation of a tatalitarian sy-
With settlement of the Manchurian
tures of the U.S.S.R.. Germany, Aust-
tem.
incident and the making of plans for
ria, the United States, Britain and
"In this sense. a State
reorganized
Japan's advance, it therefore became
necessary to provide for radical reno-
France are given to show that all are
spending increasing amounts.
in time ofpeace which would proye
on a totalitarian basis has atent power
vation of armaments, continues the
pamphlet. Moreover, Japan has as-
sumed the burden of defending Man-
chukuo, which is more than twice as
large as Japan and has frontiers ad-
of international unrest but also be-
cause of rising arms costs. The unit
creased two or three times in the past
prices of the principal arms have in-
More is being spent not only because
and adequacy in armaments form an
a decisivefactor in an emergen
Thus administrative renovation, which
is national defense in the broad sense,
inseparable nity. It is ecessary that
jacent to the Soviet Union and China
five years, it is claimed. In 193i, a
the people resolve to offect both, re-
of 5.000 kilometers.
mountain gun cost 4,000; the new
gardless of sacrifice."
To supplement the emergency arma-
modern type of mountain gun today
ment improvement plan, an urgent pro-
costs 12,000. A field gun has risen
gram for replenishment of the air force
from ¥10.000 to ¥17,000, and a healy
was launched with the 1935-36 fiscal
field gun from ¥30,000 to ¥35,000. A
year. In addition, six-year plan for
small military plane that used to cost
more adjustments in strategic materials,
¥30,000 now costs ¥160,000. and a large
to cost ¥400,000,000, and a five-year plan
plane that used to be priced at ¥160.-
for improvement of equipment have
000 today needs more than ¥300,000.
been : dopted.
Much money is also needed for sup-
The army should have adopted an
plies of ammunition. On the basis of
extensive program at the time of the
what happened in the World War, the
Manchurian incident, the pamphlet
Japanese army will require for a sin-
says, but uncertainty about the future
gle battle ammunition costing between
and the necessity of economizing made
¥200,000,000 and ¥300,000,00.
For
it impossible to do anything but the
strategical safety, the army must have
most essential. Nov, however, the army
on hand enough ammunition for at
has decided to replenish armaments in
least several battles. The quantity of
earnest, surmounting all obstacles, in
ammunition that must be stored in
order that its bitte experiences of the
time of peace depends on the scale of
past 30 years will not be repeated. A
the army's strategic plans and the
plan has been formulated since Decem-
capacity of the arms industry. A
ber of last year to enable Japan "to
country with industry that is well de-
maintain equilibrium with other
veloped can economise, and this is one
Powers, especially the Soviet Union, in
reason for mobilizing the nation on a
view of its positive Far Eastern policy.
national defense basis.
in which there is no loathing of resort
The pamphlet denies that military
to armed force." It gan thus prevent
expenses are unproductive. arguing
war. The main features of the program
that the manufacture of arms and
follow:
munitions is an absolute necessity to
1. Increased strength for the air
sustain industrial pówer and preserve
force.
industrial prosperity. Through indus-
2. Increased strength for the Man-
try and trade, the army is indirec.tly
churian garrison
giving millions of yen yearly to the
3. Replacements in connection with
the two above items and expansion of
farmers. It might be dangerous to
educational, mobilization and supply
spend large sums if most of the mate-
facilities.
rials had to be imported, but the army
4. Adjustment ofstrategic mate-
now buys almost everything in Jaran.
rials.
X.—Armament Replenishment and Ad-
The program is to be completed in a
ministrative Renovation
dozen years or so, with what is mozt
Future wars, continues the army's
urgent carried out in the first half of
publication, will be "symphonies of
the period.
armed force, economic power"and ide-
VIII. WilI Replenishment of
ological warfare." the last of which
Armaments Bring War
is so effective that it may well lead
The pamphlet maintains that war is
to the collapse of a nation from with-
caused not by armaments but by
in, smashing its fighting spirit and re-
when there are ciroumstances likely to the synthesis of national forces, deve-
eliminated or armaments must be land.
made adeguate to make the other
party hesitate before acting rashly.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2, to despatch
No. 2136, dated Nov. 13, 1936.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Wednesday, Nov. 11, 1936.
ARMY ON CONTINENT
"The Far Eastern strength of the So-
"To what extent, then, should the
viet Union in time of peace is 15 divi-
air force be expanded?In view
VIEWED INADEQUATE
sions of infantry. 1,000 or so airplanes.
the mobility of aireraft, the Japenes
divided into more than 100 air units,
and about 1,000 tanks. In addition. the
air force must be equal to that which
Soviets have constructed impregnable
the Soviet Union can bring to the 
fortresses on the border and are in a
East in wartime. If future develop
position to pounce on Manchukuo at
ments of the Soviets are taken inte
Pamphlet Declares Approximate
a moment's notice. glaring across the
frontier with the eyes of a tiger.
account, Japan will need an air force
Equilibrium With Soviet
Japanese Weaker
of several hundred companl, 
"And what is the strength of the
enormous strength. Such a vast 
Strength Essential
Japanese garrison in Manchukuo? Nu-
ject cannot be achieved within a 
merically, it is only a third or a fourth
years, and therefore the army m
of the Soviet. and it has but a frac-
be satisfied with minimum expanste
HUGE AIR FORCE WANTED
tion of the Soviet planes and tanks.
to begin with. As the power of the 
With this weak strength, Japan is pat-
tion's aircraft industry is nurture,
rolling a border extending 5,000 kilo-
gradual expansion should be effecte
No Need Seen to Fear Race in
meters, maintaining peace and order
This seems to be the wisest coum
in an area equivalent to France and
Armaments if Nation Ad-
Germany together and guarding rail-
ministered Properly
ways extending 10.000 kilometers. The
It must not be ignored, moreevet, th
Soviets are in the so-called strategi-
cal divergence formation along the
4.000 planes and that the Chinese have
The spiritual factors of Japan's mili-
Soviet-Manchukuo border, but the
Japanese, with their small strength.
an air force of 850 planes."
Competition Dlacussed
tary strength cannot compensate for
are scattered all over this vast region
The sixth chapter of the pamphlet,
the numerical inferiority of the army
in helpless positions. It is about like
titled Limits of Armament Competition,
in relation to the forces which the
Soviet Union can put into the field in
the Far East, says the fifth chapter of
single regiment. From the standpoint
garrisoning the Kwanto plain with a
of strategy, nothing could be more
arms competition will not result if th
Soviet Union and Japan expand their
follows:
The question is often asked whether
the pamphlet issued last week by the
fraught with danger.
armaments. Such competition will ma-
and the sixth chapter were not covered
press section of the War Office. This
and Korea, as a matter of fact, should
"The Japanese forces in Manchukuo
turally be seen for the next few years.
The geographical position, trafic faci-
in the summary distributed by Domei
be adequate to guard the border.
lities and natural resources of the Far
at the time of publication.
maintain peace and order and patrol
East. however. impose timits on the
From the standpoint of strategy, no-
railways in time of peace and to pre-
strength which the Soviets can put in
thing could be more dangerous than
vent foreign invasion in time of war.
to the field in this part of the werld
the low strength of the Japanese
Defeat or victory in the initial battle
and which they can replenish.
also asserts, and it is essential that ap-
proximate equilibrium be established
forces in Manchukuo, the pamphlet
near the border would have a serious
effect on the fate of the whole war.
Even the layman must be aware that
the Finnish army, the three of the 
tonian, the three of the Latvian, the
"There are also the four divisions 
between the Japanese army and the
with such inadequacy of strength it
of the Polish and the 21 of the Rurma
peacetime army of the U.S.S.R. in the
would be next to impossible to dis-
nian, totaling 61 divisions, which the
Far East. The fifth chapter. titled
charge the duty of national defense on
Soviets must provide agaimst along
The Mimimum Strength Needed for
the border.
their borders. Nor can they forgst the
National Defense, follows:
"Consideration of the
military
tinent and assure full protection of
"To consolidate defenses on the con-
36 German divisions in the rear. Even
to keep peace and order at home r
strengths of the Soviet Union and
the first line in case of war with the
quires a considerable foree. These
China shows that Japan's continental
U.S.S.R., it is essential to increase the
considerations show that, enormows
armaments, so important for national
strength of the Japanese garrison in
though their army is, the Soviets omn-
defense. are extremely inadequate.
proportion to the strength of the So-
not increase indefinitely their Far
Both to prevent war and to hold
viets. Even if the efficiency of the
Eastern strength.
Japan's life line on the continent,
Japanese army is taken into account,
"Though far adavnced, there is
replenishment of military armament-
it is needless to reiterate the need for
limit to the capacity of Soviet industry
is a matter of urgent necessity.
achieving approximate equilibrium
The number of youths the army 
Determinants Given
with the peacetime strength of the
recruit is also restricted. Infinite arma
"Required military strength is do-
Soviets in the Far East.
ment is impossible. Moreover, the 
termined by the polity of the State, ex-
Alr Raids Likely
Eastern army of the UR. is
isting conditions of the State (geogra-
"In a possible future war, enemy
from home. It must develop extremet
phical position, national resourees. et
planes can be expected, immediately
cold and barren wilds that are sparset
cstera) and relations with Powers
on its outbreak, to attempt air raids
populated. The Japanese garrison,
dealing with the State. Though we
on Tokyo and the principal military
the other hand, is supported by the
cannot go into all the details, we may
and munitions bases of the country.
000,c00 Manchurians and their vast and
consider the matter in connection with
Were Japan to lack the strength to
fertile territory.
the armaments of our neighbors in
resist these air raids at the very out-
"In the event of an arms race withs
the light of the latest international
sct, it would be placed on the defen-
the Soviets, there will be nothing
circumstances If we look at the So-
mive and ultimately be defeeted.
fear, therefore. if the Japanese mak
viet Union, for example, we may dis-
Along with adequacy of land forees,
tain their strength and spirit at a
cern how urgently necessary is re-
therefore, the air force must be brought
plenishment of our armaments.
up to invineible strength.
"If the military strength which the
"The vital importance of aerial
U.S.S.It cam put into the field in the
strength in modern warfare need not
Far East le taken to be seose scores
be reiterated, but its prefection in
parallel with adequacy of land and sea
dance with the daily
forces is an important factor in pre-
venting war. One reason for the
failure of the British flest in the Me-
diterranean to resort to mxtreme mes-

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
vièt Union in time of peace is 15 divi-
air force be exs
VIEWED INADEQUATE
sions of infantry, 1,000 or so airplanes,
divided into more than 100 air units,
the mobility of atk
and about 1,000 tanks. In addition, the
air force must be equíl
Soviets have constructed impregnable
the Soviet Unioncan
fortresses on the border and are in 
East in wartime. If a
position to pounce on Manchukuo at
PamphletDeclaresApproximate
a moment's notiee, glaring acroms the
ments of the Soviete aret
frontier with the eyes of a tiger.
Equilibrium With Soviet
Japanese Weaker
of severel hundred
"And what is the strength of the
Strength Essential
Japanese garrison in Manchukuo? Nu-
ject cannot be achieved
merically, it is only a third or a fourth
of the Soviet, and it has but a frac-
be satisfled with minimum
HUGE AIR FORCE WANTED
tion of the Soviet planes and tanks.
to begin with. As the power f
With this weak strength, Japan is pat-
tion's aircraft industry ls
rolling a border extending 5,000 kilo-
gradual expansion shonle e
No Need Seen to Fear Race in
meters, maintaining peace and order
This seems to be the wh
in an area equivalent to France and
But even the minimum will
Armaments if Nation Ad-
Germany together and guarding rail-
ministered Properly
Soviets are in the so-called strategi-
ways extending 10.000 kilometers. The
the American army and wavy
cal divergence formation along the
4.000 planes and that the Chinase
The spiritual factors of Japan's mili-
Soviet-Manchukuo border, but the
an air force of s50 planes."
Japanese, with their small strength,
tary strength cannot compensate for
are scattered all over this vast region
the numerical inferiority of the army
in helpless positions. It is about like
titled Limits of Armament Competities,
in relation to the forces which the
garrisoning the Kwanto plain with a
follows:
the Far East, says the fifth chapter of
Soviet Union can put into the fleld in
single regiment. From the standpoint
of strategy, nothing could be more
arms competition will not result if 
Soviet Union and Japan expand their
The question is often asked whethe
the pamphlet issued last week by the
fraught with danger.
press section of the War Office. This
"The Japanese forces in Manchukuo
armaments. Such competitión will m-
turally be seen for the next few year
and the sixth chapter were not covered
and Korea, as a matter of fact, should
The geographical position, traffc faci-
at the time of publication.
in the summary distributed by Domei
maintain peace and order and patrol
be adequate to guard the border,
lities and natural resources of the Far
East. however. impose fimits on the
From the standpoint of strategy, no-
railways in time of peace and to pre-
strength which the Soviets can put in
thing could be more dangerous than
vent foreign invasion in time of war.
to the field in this part of the werl
the low strength of the Japanese
Defeat or victory in the initial battle
and which they can replenish.
proximate equilibrium be established
between the Japanese army and the
forces in Manchukuo, the pamphlet
also asserts, and it is essential that ap-
Even the layman must be aware that
with such inadequacy of strength it
effect on the fate of the whole war.
near the border would have a serious
tonian. the three of the Latvian, the
the Finnish army. the three of the 
"There are also the four divisions 
peacetime army of the U.S.S.R. in the
Far East. The fifth chapter. titled
charge the duty of national defense on
would be next to impossible to dis-
nian, totaling 61 divisions, which the
of the Polish and the 21 of the Ruma
The Mimimum Strength Needed for
the border.
Soviets must provide against along
their borders. Nor can they forget the
National Defense, follows:
"To consolidate defenses on the con-
36 German divisions in the rear. Even
"Consideration of the
military
tinent and assure full protection of
to keep peace and order at home 
strengths of the Soviet Union and
the first line in case of war with the
quires a considerable foree. These
China shows that Japan's continental
U.S.S.R., it is essential to increase the
considerations show that, enormow
armaments, so important for national
strength of the Japanese garrison in
though their army is, the Soviets ean-
defense. are extremely inadequate.
proportion to the strength of the So-
not increase indefinitely their Far
Both to prevent war and to hold
viets. Even if the efficiency of the
Eastern strength.
Japan's life line on the continent.
Japanese army is taken into account,
"Though far adavnced, there is 
replenishment of military armament
it is needless to reiterate the need for
limit to the capacity of Soviet industry.
is a matter of urgent necessity.
achieving approximate equilibrium
The number of youths the army can
Determinants Given
with the peacetime strength of the
recruit is also restricted. Infnite arma-
"Required military strength is do-
Soviets in the Far East.
ment is impossible. Moreover, the Far
termined by the polity of the State, ex-
Air Raids Likely
Eastern army of the U.S.S.R. is far
isting conditions of the State (geogra-
"In a possible future war, enemy
from home. It must develop extremely
phical position. nationa! resources. et
planes can be expected. immediately
cold and barren wilds that are sparsely
cetera) and relations with Powers
on its outbreak, to attempt air raids
populated. The Japanese garrison, on
dealing with the State. Though we
on Tokyo and the principal military
the other hand, is supported by the 30.-
cannot go into all the details, we may
and munitions bases of the country.
000.c00 Manchurians and their vast and
consider the matter in connection with
Were Japan to lack the strength to
fertile territory.
the armaments of our neighbors in
resist these air raids at the very out-
"In the event of an arms race with
the light of the latest international
sct, it would be placed on the defen-
the Soviets, there will be nothing to
circumstances. If we look at the So-
sive and ultimately be defeated.
fear, therefore. if the Japanese main-
viet Union, for example. we may dis-
Along with adequacy of land forces,
tain their strength and spirit at a car-
cern how urgently necessary is re-
therefore, the air force must be brought
tain level without regard for difoul
strategy and escellent morale, the spi-
plenishment of our armaments.
Far East is taken to be some scores
be, the present Japanese strength, even
of divisions and several thousands of
airplanes, as the Powers judge it to
if its consummate training, ingenious
ritual factors of strength, are taken
into account, has an enormous num-
U.S.S.R. can put into the field in the
"If the military strength which the
venting war. One reason for the
overwhelmingsuperiority, was that
up to invincible strength.
forces is an iniportant factor in pre-
failure of the British fleet in the Me-
sures againsty the Italian fleet, despite
strength in modern warfare need not
be reiterated, but its prefection in
parallel with adcquacy of land and sea
diterranean tó resort to extreme mea-
"The vital importance of aerial
dance with the daily advanee of m
ties. Nor is it demanded that Jepas
build up its armament in & day."Is
is proposed that they be built up s
by step over a dozen years in avedte
tional industrial, finaneial d 
mic power. If national
tlon is conducted properly,
solutely no reason why Japen
not be able to compete with th
erieal infgriority that undeniably can-
not be compensated for, especially as
the Italian air force was superior to
the British. When this is considered.
saying that it is necessary
in future wars mechanical and seien-
replenishment of the Japanede ale
standpoint of defence in
mquipment wiln be inereasingly
force must be said to be extremely
to perfect at ho
urgent.
tiomal da
novation.
"Ahus
tance in the Far

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
#2221
894.00 P.R./109
FOR
SEE
894.20/
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
Jan 21,1937
TO
NAMC
1-1127
7
REGARDING:
The Army vis a vis the Diet and comments by the former on the
8
Cabinet. Budget demands of the Army.
FRG.
178

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
(b) The Army.
In accordance with the compromise arrangement ar-
rived at by Freier Hirota in the controversy between
the Diet System Investigation Comnission and the War
Minister over the latter's appearance before the Co.-
mission, Ge eral Terauchi had an infor.ial discussion
with members of the Commission at the Fremier's Official
Residence on Dece ber ? to ev lain the Army's ideas on
Diet reform. * ie esserted that the plan for drastic
reform of the Diet reported by the press in Tovember as
having enanated from a section of Aray officers had no
connection with the ar Office. The following statement
made at this gathering would indict te, however, that the
War Minister felt it necessary to ap ease the "section
of Arny officers" concerned:
The work of the Diet system
in this country should always remein alon the lines of
the Imperial Constitution. e aust see to it that our
Diet is not run on the basis of the democratic ideas
which were borrowed from the est and may cause a mis-
conception of the nature of the Diet system in the Empire".
During the month the :ar Minister egain was reported
to be concerned over the slowness of the Cabinet in effect-
ing administrative reforms and the stabilization of the
livelihood of the people.
Higher
* Embassy's despatch No. 2163, November 26, 1936.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
Hicher officiels of the War Ministry held two con-
ferences with Diet members to explain the nature of the
Army's budget demands. At the second of these meetings
on December 23 the 'ar Minister denied that the Army
was responsible for the high tax revenue provided in the
1937-38 national budget and that the Cabinet had been
compelled to form the budget in a wey to satisfy the Army.
In addition, the Vice Minister for War, General Umezu,
was quoted by Domei with the following statement: "I
think our defense ex enditures should be met by both
bonds and taxation but the Army has nothing to do with
the effect of increased taxation on industry and economy.
The Army cannot concern itself with such technicel questions".
Apparently neither the ar Minister nor the Vice Minister
for War made any effort to explain their assertions that
the necessity for the proposed increase in taxation was
not dictated by the large budgetary demands of the Army.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00P.R./110
Desp.#2257
SEE
FOR
894.20/
Japan
Grew
Feb.15,1937
FROM
) DATED
tb111
NAME
1--1127
po
REGARDING: The Army and its position in the political affairs
179
of the count ry:Reports regarding -.
fpg
7

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
(c). The Army.
Although the Army met with several rebuffs during
. January, there was no indication at the end of the month
44
that the Army's predominant position in the political
affairs of the country had been lessened thereby.* In
fact, the Army seemed to have gained a victory in the seleo-
tion by the Emperor of General Hayashi for Premier .** On
the other hand, it appeared that Hayashi had been chosen to
form a Government because it was thought that he would be
able to control the Army and through moderate policies to
minimize friction between the Army and the Government.
Immediately after tendering his resignation as War
Minister on January 23, General Terauchi told the press that
he had taken this step because the views of the political
parties were found to be fundamentally at variance with those
held by the Army, denying the allegation that Mr. Hamada's
speech in the House of Representatives had been the cause for
his resigning. General Terauchi reportedly added that the
domestic and international situation confronting Japan was
too grave to be tided over by any sort of temporizing com-
promise between the political parties and the Army.
The Army issued one of its regular pamphlets on January 27
entitled "The Armies of the Empire and Other Powers". After
the usual preamble in support of the continuing necessity
for increased military expenditures, the pamphlet goes on
to state that the Soviet Union is manifesting a provocative
attitude toward Japan, that anti-Japanese and anti-Manchu-
kuo" policies and the policy of playing off one foreign
Power against another remain as China's guiding principles,
that Great Britain is extending its influence over China
and interfering in Japan's policy in East Asia, and that the
United States
* Embassy's despatch No. 2241 of February 1, 1937.
** Embassy'a telegram No. 34 of January 30, 1937.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
United States is desirous of "controlling the Pacific",
advancing on the China market, strengthening its naval
power and its Pacific fortifications, and expanding its
overseas market to keep pace with its economic revival.
(a). The Navy.
Admiral Nagano, the Navy Minister, was reported to have
attempted to mediate between the Army and the political
parties after their clash in the Diet on January 2l. His
efforts met with no success and his visits to the presidents
of the Seiyukai and the Minseito were said to have caused
indignation in the Army.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.91)
153
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Kobe, Japan, August 13, 1937.
π
Strictly Confidential
Misc
844.00
bui
SUBJECT:
Military and Political Matters
MID
in Kobe, Jupun.
GPO
25
SNOI!
LCRDS
894.20/180
oF
HE HONORABLE
7
8
B
1957 0
00
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
Vith reference to my despatch No. 152, dated ugust
11, 1937 and entitled " ilitary and Political Matters in
Kobe, Japan, I have the honor to enclose a copy of a let-
ter writtento the merican mbassador in Tokyo on the
STANT SECRETARY
3ES
OF STATE
151937
A-M/G
Respectfully yours,
SE21397
Mrilling ow
Vinthrop R. Scott
American Consul
F/VM
Enalosure:
Copy of letter to American
Ambassador, Tokyo, August
13, 1937.
800
D6
WRS/hjs
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh No. 153 of August 13, 1937,
from Consul Winthrop R. Scott, Kobe, Japan, entitled
"Military and Political Matters in Kobe, Japan."
800
WRS/hjs
Kobe, Japan
iugust 13, 1937
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
umericun mbassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
Referring to my letter of ugust 10, 1?57, I have
the honor to make the following supplementary report.
It appears that the exodus of soldiers from this
port which began on au ust 8th has now been virtually
completed.  fev contingents left this morning but at
noon the main streets were opened up to traffic and
there is no evidence of any large number of soldiers
in the city. The transportation has apparently been
carried on by small freight steamers of from 2,0oo to
5,ooo tons. These transports have left Kobe each after-
noon for the last three days at about 5 p.m.
It is pretty generally understood that about forty
steamers have been chartered or taken over by the govern-
ment for this purpose. This figure checks quite well with
the

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
the number of ships observed passing through the Inland
Sea, which were seen to be twelve on August 10, twelve
to sixteen (exact number uncertain) on August 1l, and
twelve on ugust 12. In ad ition to the embarkation of
troops from Kobe, there has been some movement of sol-
diers by rail through kobe. Last evening, for example,
a train comprising approximately ten or twelve freight
cars, and an equal nuiber of cars carryin: soldiers,
passed through in the direction of Osaku. It is presumed
this represented roplacements for the Osaka or other
garrisons. Besides the above nentioned shins, two
cruisers came to Kobe on ugust 10, (these in addition
to the two which came u ust c).
The English language press yesterday curried an
article to the effect that the evacuation of Chinese
citizens had been ordered by the Nanking government.
The Chinese Consul General states, however, that this
rumor is incorrect, that he had received no orders from
the Nanking government, nor has there been any effort
on the part of the Japanese government to evacuate
Chinese. He states that what actually happened was that
the Chinese business men are finding it difficult to
carry on as the Japanese have virtually ceased to pat-
ronize their shops. In view of this, the Chinese Consul
General held a meeting of the leading Chinese merchants,
at which it was decided to facilitate and encourage the
return to China of those who wished to go, and to raise
funds to help the needy Chinese carry on who elected to
remain

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
remain. The Consul General added that he had no com-
plaint to make of the treatment being accorded Chinese
oitizens; that the police were working closely with
him in handling Chinese residents; and that for the time
being at least he did not anticipate that the Chinese
would be forced to leave the country. In cormenting on
the China situation in general, he expressed extreme
concern and nervousness, stating that he felt the
situation was most serious, that much more fighting was
going on than reported in the Jananese press, and he
might have to leave at any moment due to the severance
of relations.
There appears to be no great :ar fever manifested
in Kobe. The school children and patriotic societies
are marshalled forth to see the troons leave, but all
proceeds solemnly and decorously vith little show of
enthusiasm.
Respectfully yours,
inthrop R. Scott
merican Consul
A true oopy of
ses

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 22, 1937.
The appended report from Kobe contains
some interesting observations (pages 3-4-5-6)
in regard to Japanese publio reaction in the
Sino-Japanese embroglio.
Now that his country's prestige is in-
volved, the average business man, who pre-
viously gave vent to frank criticism of gov-
ornmental actions, literally "won't talk".
The attitude in commercial circles seems to
be one of loyalty but of definite unenthusi-
asm. In view of the disorder in business
resulting from military activities, the
business man is deeply apprehensive of the
future. This does not mean that business
circles will endeavor to bring pressure to
bear on the Government for peace. They believe
in the right of Japan's cause, but fear the
finanoial consequences.
The war psychology seems to have brought
out no special changes in attitude toward
foreigners in general. The attitude toward
the United States is friendly, and the pub-
lio feels that the United States has exer-
cised definite restraint in dealing with the
Far Eastern situation. It would seem that
the feeling toward Britishers is less friendly
than that toward Amerioans.
y1
FE:NIT:NN

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.92)
HA
152
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Kobe, Japan, August 11, 1937.
94.20
note
Strictly Confidential
894.00
bn.i
SQBJECT:
Military and Political latters
MID
GPO
SNOI!
in Kobe, Jupan.
ANRDS
JF
LCIVEO
oF
394.20/181
8
n
B
S
0
vA
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
93
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
我
As of possible interest to the Department, I have
the honor to enclose a copy of a letter vritten to the
American mbassador in Tokyo, vith reference to poli-
tical and military matters in this district.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
F//M
SEP
Respectfully yours,
OF STATE
Wiutlwp Rleors
Winthrop R. Scott
American Consul
Enclosure:
Copy of letter to American
Ambassador, Tokyo, dated
August 10, 1937.
SEPE 7 1937
4 Carson corte
Recaiv
800
WRS/hjs
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
nolosure No. 1 to despatch No. 152 of August 11, 1937,
from Consul Winthrop R. Soott, Kobe, Japan, entitled
"Military and Political Matters in Kobe, Japan."
800
WRS/hjs
Kobe, Japan,
August 10, 1957.
Confidential
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
merican -mbassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
As of possible interest to the imbassy, I have the
honor to make the followin brief report concerning
military and political matters in this district.
Up to last Sunday, ugust 8th, there was very little
evidence of military movements in Lobe. For the last
month, it is true, there have been a great many "banzais"
when a few recruits have entrained but not much physical
evidence of the movements of troops on a large scale.
Beginning Sunday afternoon, the wide street leading fron
the customs gate to the Sannomiya railroad station has been
more or less closed to vehicular traffic to facilitate troop
movements. Up to that date troops from the west end of
Honshu were being despatched through Moji, Ujina, and pos-
sibly other ports. Since last Sunday evening there has
been, however, an embarkation of troops from Kobe on a
relatively important soale. It is understood that these
units

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
units comprise chiefly soldiers from the so-called Hanshin
distriot, including a relatively lar e number of soldiers
from Himeji. It should be understood, of course, that all
indication of the locality has been taken from the soldiers'
uniforms so that the place of origin cunnot be ascertained
directly. The best estimates vhich I have been uble to
obtain and check from various sources indicate tlut to date,
namely, from ugust eth p.m., to nugust l0th p.., some-
thing between 20,000 and 30,000 troons Luve left fron obe.
Of these, about 6,ooo repregent contingents from the city
of Kobe itself. The units comprise both infantry and
cavalry, including a regiment of cavalry from Limeji which
arrived at Kobe last evening. The actual movenent of the
troops is being carried out very guietly, and, ulthou: the
streets are rather well-filled with soldiers, the "banzais"
which were so vociferous a vecl before are consricuously
absent.
Owing to the fact that under the resent system now
in vogue in the Japanese army by vich the old and young
recruits are mixed in the same units, it is difficult to
gauge what class of reserves are being called out. It is
understood, however, that the troops vithdrawn from local
garrison duty in Japan are being replaced by very young
soldiers. There is no indication in the papers as to the
destination of the various units, nor is there any announce-
ment as to the various classes called out. As of passing
interest on this point, it may be mentioned that a friend
of mine, who served during the Russo-Japanese war, informs
me

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
me that he has received several letters from soldier
friends of his, who left among the first contingents, that
they were at that time routed to Fusan around the southern
portion of Kyushu Island, avoiding the straits of Shimono-
seki. At Fusan they entrained throuch Keijo und un to
Antung. From that point a censorship shut dowm on further
indications as to their movenents.
In addition to transportution by merchant chips, it
appears that some elements have been carried by Mavy vossels.
In this connection, Vice Conaul Tenney of this ofrice, who
rents a summer home at Tarumi on the Inland Sea, a few niles
west of Kobe, informs me that on Sunday afternoon about six
o'clock he saw tvo Jananese cruisers steam tovards Kobe har-
bor. As may be noted, the arrival of these vessels on Sun-
day coincided vith the concentration of troop movenents in
Kobe.
An interesting gauge of the length of time which the
authorities expect to devote to the embarkation of troops
through Kobe is given by the fact that a brief notice in
the English press appeared warning foreigners that the
possession (presumably the use) of cameras until the 13th
will be the cause of trouble and extensive examination.
A copy of this notice is enclosed.
to the North China incident must be reported on with extreme
caution. Now that his country's prestige and honor are en-
gaged the average business man, who so frankly and openly
gave vent to criticism of previous government policies,
literally

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
literally "won't talk". Perhaps the attitude in commercial
ciroles might best be surmarized by saying that it is one
of loyalty but definite unenthusiasn for the neviest develop-
ments. For the last few months, commerce, due to the exchange
regulations and other restrictive meisures, has been subject
to the greutest difficulties. ith the inc ceased hazard and
the disorder now throvm into normal business because of the
military conmitments bein undertaken in Chinu, the busi-
ness man in tlhis district is understandably deeply aprre-
hensive of the future. By this it should not be inferred
that anything resembling pressure for peace will be brought
to bear upon the governnent by industrial groups. Their
point of view is not so much that Japan has been in any way
in the wrong in the present incident, but grantin: its moral
poition they still do not see how the admittedly bad financial
situation in the country is to be saved.
The attitude of the huribler classes seems also to be
one of restrained patriotism. I have been amazed by the
admirable self-restraint of these people. They apparently
fully concur in the government's position and stoically
accept what fate may be in store for them. There is no
very vociferous anti-Chinese spirit in evidence.
This of
course may develop later.
Although the war psychology has brought out no special
trend in the attitude toward foreigners and foreign countries,
a brief remark on this point may be made. ith regard to
the feeling towards the United States, there appears to be
no change in the very friendly attitude which has characteri-
zed the point of view of the Japanese for some time.
Certainly

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
Certainly, since I have been in Kobe I have seen no evi-
dence of anything but the friendliest feeling towards
America. This has been shown by the tenor of the articles
in the press, by public speeches, and by friendly expres-
sions on all sides in personal contucts, whose sincerity
cannot be open to question. s far as can be gauged, the
point of view of the influential and prominent Japanese in
this district appears to be that the United States has
definitely turned avay from the so-called Stinson doctrine
and adopted a policy of avoiding any meddling in Japanese
affairs. The possibility of our interjecting any effective
interference in Japanese policies appears to be definitely
discounted. This of course is hi hly satisfactory from the
Japanese point of view. Less so is the rather generally
accepted idea that no matter what the merits of any actual
situation arising in China may be, merica vill sympathize
with China. This attitude has been evinced to me in various
sources in a rather plaintive manner. For example, a close
friend of mine in the shinning business recently said, "Well,
I know that America will sympathize with China but this won't
make any difference in our friendship". A somewhat similar
statement was made to me by a Japanese attorney, whon I know
rather well, and it is evident that this is a rather common
feeling on the part of the Japanese. In general, the
Japanese press and government officials have shcim restraint
in their attitude towards foreigners, both during the present
troop movements and during the recent air raid maneuvers
which

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
- 6 -
which took place in this district. It would appear that
the feeling toward British nationals is on a less solid
and friendly basis than toward Americans at the present
moment. This, of course, may change at any time, but the
somewhat uncertain attitude of Great Britain in the present
crisis coupled with the typically unfriondly and overbearing
position taken by British nationals residing here, does not
make for the friendliest understandin. The Russians are
apparently looked upon vith suspicion and dislike. Up to
now, in spite of the events in China, Chinese residents in
Kobe have not been subject to uny special ill-treatment or
molestation.
I shall not fail to inform you of any further develon-
ment which appears of sufricient interest and sinificance
to warrant reporting.
Respectfully yours,
Vinthrop R. Scott
merican Consul
WRs/hjs
Enclosure:
Clipping from the Japan
Chronicle, August 10, 1937.
=gLes

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure to letter to American Ambassador, Tokyo,
Japan, dated August 10, 1937, from Consul Vinthrop
R."Soott, Kobe, Japan.
From the Japan Chronicle, Kobe, Japan,
August 10, 1937.
all foreigners are varned that the possession
of cameras, at least until the 13th, will only be a
cause of much trouble and extensive examination.
This is even more so at the Iirume Boathouse where
there are officers stationed at the present time to
observe picture-taking or other irregularities.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.93)
154
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Kobe, Japan, August 17, 1937.
894.20
N2
nite
Strictly Confidential
MID.
894.00
ONI
SUBJECT:
Political and ilitary Latte
0r0
Kobe, Japan.
894.20/182
ERDS
5
M
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
19.71
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
As of possible interest to the Department, I have
the honor to enclose a copy of my strictly confidential
Tetter of august 17, l937, reporting to the mbassador
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
conrning political and military matters in this dis-
SE151937
OF STATE
Respectfully yours,
F/VM
Wiutligp Bshots
Vinthrop R. Scott
American Consul
Enclosure:
Copy of letter to American
Ambassador, Tokyo, dated
FILED
August 17, 1937.
800
WRS/hjs
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to despatch No. 154 from Consul Vinthrop
R. Scott, Kobe, Japan, dated August 17, 1937,
and entitled "Political and Military Matters in
Kobe, Japan".
Kobe, Japan
Striatly Conridential
August 17, 1957
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
Ameriean Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir1
/18
I have the honor to refer to my letter of August
15, 1937, and in conneotion therewith to make the
following brief supplementary report.
In my last communication troop embarkations from
Kobe were reported up to noon of August 1sth. On the
evening or August 13th a final exodus of eleven steamers
took place, apparently completing troop movements from
Kobe for the present time. It is generully estimated
that the totai number sent from Kobe during this period
(August 8 to August 13) amounted to about 50,000. In
aadision to estimates mmde by this Consulate, the Cer-
man, Chinese and British Consulates agree on this figure.
I have now learned from a souroe whieh I believe
to be reliable that the llth Division, which comprises
troops from Shikoku, will be embarked on August 19th
fer Shanghai. It is understood that a portion of these
troops will be embarked from Zentsuji and a portion
frem Takematsu. In this connection, it is of interest
to note that the mobilization orders for these soldiers
were apparently given in a great hurry sinee some of
the shikoku solaiers living in Kobe were only given the
notiee today, the 17th, thus allowing only two ays to
repert to the port of embarkation. It is understood
that this is an unusually short period, From the same
seuree I learn that the l4th Division (near Utsunomiya)
has besm mebilised--the men to report not later than
Augnet 20.
The

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.96)
The iafematien ccntained in the abeve paragraph
ean be esaated on, in my opinion, as being reliable.
Frem mere cemjectural sourees it is understood
that mobilisatiem at the moment ineludes the lst Divi-
for what it my be worth as a oheak up for the Imbassy.
On the psychological side I do not feel there has
been any signifieant change since my previous reports.
As previously reported, business men are cautious in
expressing opinions; however, among intimate foreign
trlends they have not hesitated in some cases to voice
extreme unenthusiamm with regard to the China situation,
and gemuine trepidation as to the conomie results of the
inevitably mounting tax burden. The common people do
net give any evidenee of wild enthusiasm, and during the
last two days shere has beem a concerted effert to awaken
ferver throsgh parades of patriotie organisations, young
men's asseciatioms, and a miscellany of young sohool
shildrem and bey seouts. These demonstrations are wit-
messed as speetaeles but do not appear to ereate a great
motional response on the part of the onlookers.
Although a growing tenseness is visible with the
emlargement of military activities, relations between
Jompemy, no other instanees of this sort, either in-
velving Amerieans or other foreigners, has ceme to my
attemtion. There is no visible evidence of speeial
anti-Cmimese feeling as far as the Chinese residents of
Kobe are soneerned. The losal polise appear to be
eeepemating effeetively with the Chinese Consulate in
this respeet.
In spite of the activities in connestion with
meving twoeps and war material, railway sehedules and
disembarkation of steamers have been carried on in a
fairly regular manner. There was a rumor ourrent in
Takye, it is understeed, that the passengers from the
8.8.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
S.s. mopRmsS oF JAPAN which landed at Kobe on August
Àl. wese prevented from prosesding to Tokyo for a
Leng time beeanse trains were being used for war pur-
the steemer was held for about six hours in quarantime
due to a mall pox case on board, and this, coupled with
the eemfusion at the docks because of the embarkation
of seldiers, was the sole cause for the delay of the
passengers.
I shall not fail to keep you currently informed
as developments of any sigmiricance arise.
Rospeetrully yours,
Winthrop R. Joott
Amerioan Consul
A erue copy of
the signed grigi
1.798.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.94)
164
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Kobe, Japan, September 10, 1937
00
Striotly Confidential
CHI-MiD
SUBJECT:
Political and Lilitary Matters in
S
Japan.
894.20/133
5
THE HONORABLE
EL
Department of Stale
35
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
As of possible interest to the Department, I have
the honor to enclose a copy of my strictly confidential
letter of September 9, 1937, reporting to the Ambassador
concerning political and military matters in this dis-
trict.
ATE
AY
Respectfully yours,
bili Dsion
FILED
A-M/C
Winthrop R. Scott
2
American Consul
xol8burt:
Copy of letter to American
Ambassador, Tokyo, dated
Ssptember 9, 1937.
800
WRS/hjs
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
F/G

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure to Despatoh No. 164 "Political and
Military Matters in Japan", September 10, 1937,
from Consul Winthrop R. Scott, Kobe, Japan.
Strictly Confidential
Kobe, Japan
September 9, 1937
The Honorable
Jomeph C. Grew,
meriean mbassador,
rokyo.
31r1
Referring to my l et cormunioation dated ugust
19, l937 with respeot to military mattere in  obe, I
mow have the honor to report that there has been a
resrndeseenee of mctivitles of this sort at this port
during the last ten daya.
During the wee: folloving ugust 17t): Yobe appeared
fairly quiet an far as troop movements vere concerned.
About August ssth there were reater sigms of aotivity
and although no streets wmre mhut off for feeilitating
the marehing of soldiers, various units could be seen
asound the city. The Conmulate is in a position to state
shat at this time some men in obe were reeeivins orders
to report to the 9th  1vinion at anazawa. last week
mmeh reater aetivity was visible in  obe, the entire
water front beins turned over to the military with the
customs compound gates closed from ptember lst to
September Sth inolusive. During thin time it was necessary
for veyagers and visitors returniu  to stearery to proceed
by laumah from the eseriean Hatoba or, in special oases,
to obtain entry throuth the oustoms gites by reesiving à
military pass.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.93)
It is aifrieult to estimate how many troops ma iled
rem Kebe isself during the rirst week or September but
Is is probable that approximately : divinion were embarked
Imeludlmg a number of eavalry battalion.  sheok-up
whieh wmas sonrirmed from mevural sourees indiontes thet
some at leust of the elements cane fror tsuromiym,
Tecehigi Prefeeture. Incidentally, it may  nt oned
that the camlry equipre nt appeared of an inferior uslity,
the horees in partioular mre sorawmy-looking anirnln in
poor conditior.
ithout atte tin: to rtimate w orts or ombar
kation it may be stated that durine the period under dis-
cussion there haye teen lrx number f oldiors resains
through the Inland ea. Virtually vaoh travellor ooming
to Tobe trom China bs reported unsin: an averae of
elsht or ten troop ships.  of interest in this con-
mmetion e traveller of unquestioned inte riy conin from
Hone Kong reporte: to me that her steamer was held up for
over a day in  oji. he omush of trafrio was so reat at
that port that her bont had had a collision. uring this
time, mamely on uust 3oth, this traveller oounted in
convoy formatlon 149 troo, chips goin: through the traits
of Chimonoseki towmrd Chine. s the rbassy is aimre,
these ships are mmbered, the higheet nuaber wt:oh was
comted at Moji being 2ço. The hi hest numbere troop
ship whiah I have observed in Kobe harbor is S9e.
This Cons late has endeavor d to saoartuin some infor-
matiom as to the arrangement entered into between the
govermment with the phip in: com anies with respeot to
ahartering vessels. Thin inforration is woll muarded and
se far I have not been able to obtain any light on the
subjeet. It is quite possible, hovevor, that vesmels are
being ohartered for three months with, naturally, a pro-
vision for renewing this arrangement during the course
of the emereemey in Chine. The basis for this statement
Is she faet that arter the rirst inoident in Morth Chine
had salmed dowm and it appeared that a looal settlement
er the isswe was at land, the freight manager of one of
the leading ship in: companies informed this Consulate
that the aovermment had now given baak to the company the
steemers whieh had been chartered for three months.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.86)
-3-
few days later affairs took a graver surn in Chime and
the steamers were sontimued in the goverment merviee.
Purthermore, informmtion leakins out in this Conmulate's
imvoiee room indicates shat the charterin? is on some mush
bmsis as deseribed above.
espeotrullr yours,
inthroy . gott
rerioun onsul
on
hs

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.93)
165
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
H
Kobe, Japan, September 13, 1937
174.00
811.3394
Strictly Confidential
MISC
n
SUBJECT:
Political and Military Matters in
Kobe, Japan.
1—1066 GPO
47
394.20/184
9
O.N.I. AND M.LD.
THE HONORABLE
E
LTHE SECRETARY OF STATE,
937 06
WASHINGTON.
80
Department of Stale
无
SIR:
As of possible interest to the Department, I have
the honor to enclose a copy of my strictly confidential
letter of September 13, 1937, reporting to the Ambassador
concerning political and military matters in this dis-
trict.
Respectfully yours,
OF STATE
Wiulliop Rsiots
Winthrop R. Scott
merican Consul
SARY
closure:
Copy of letter to American
Ambassador, Tokyo, dated
September 13, 1937.
800
WRS/hjs
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
F/G

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.96)
Enelosure to Despatch No. 165 "Political and
Military Matters in Kobe, Japan", September 13,
1957, from Consul Winthrop R. Soott, Kobe, Japan.
Kobe, Japan
September 13, 1937
Strietly Confidential
The Honorable
Joseph C. rew,
merican unbassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
Amplifying my letter of epterber 9, 1937, I have
the honor to report that vhile arrangements were being
made with the Harbor laster for the arrival of the U. .s.
Gold Star, he frankly stated that the reason there was
dirrieulty in assinin: & pier berth to the Gold  tar
was that the harbor was unduly congested due to the
movement of troops from Osa)a. ubsequently oheoking
up on this point, I am in a position to state that last
week eighteen troop ships sailed from Osaka. There are
additional ships (number unknown) waiting in the harbor
to embark more troops from that port.
Though for the moment there appear to be no ships
alling direetly from Kobe harbor, there is a continuous
movement of troop trains through Kobe.
Respeotrully yours,
inthrop R. oott
Amerioan Consul
A true copy
the signed orf
ns1.
Le

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.92)
—
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
9370113 P 2 21
AMERICAN EMBASSY
S
STokyo, September 29,1937
No. 2607.
SUBJECT:
DESPATCH TO THE IBASSY FRCM THE CONSUL AT KOBE
CONCERNING T SINO-JAPANESE CONFLICT.
394.20/185
894.20
ONI ID
nole
773.94
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
DEPARME
Division of
O.NL
FAR EASTERN AFFAIKS
1937
OF STATE
8
Department of State
Honorable
F
Washington.
50
sir:
1/
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a. despatch to
the Embassy from the Consul at Kobe dated September 20,
1937, concerning Japanese troop movements from Kobe and
the attitude of the people of Kobe toward the Sino-Japanese
conflict, the Chinese nationals in Kobe, and the United
States. Mr. Scott's letter also sets forth information re-
ceived from Japanese concerning the numerical strength and
composition of the Japanese forces in China, and estimates
made by certain Japanese regarding the probable duration of
the present hostilities in China.
Respectfully yours,
N. 
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
Dempatch from Consul at Kobe.
710.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. / of despatch
No. 2607 of beptember 29,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
American Consulate
Kobe, Japan
September 20, 1937
Strictly Confidential
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew
American Ambassador
Tokyo.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my communication of
September 13, 1937 with respect to military matters and in
connection therewith to supply the following report:
This Consulate is now in a position to state that
the troops moved from Osaka referred to in the letter men-
tioned above comprised one division (No. 9) from
Asahigawa, Hokkaido.
At the present time an additional embarkation of
troops from Kobe is taking place. The units include light
artillery, cavalry and some transportation units. For this
purpose sixteen troop ships are being used. Last evening
approximately six or seven of these ships left. Further
departures are taking place today. The troops now leaving
Kobe are a portion of the first division from Tokyo. This
has not only been vouched by reliable sources but is indicated
by the insignium on the coat lapels.
On the more conjectural side but still worthy of con-
sideration, I have learned the following from a reliable
contact who was recently discussing the Chinese situation
with some ofriaers stationed in this vicinity. This contact
informs me that these officers stated that there were at the
present time 300,000 Japanese troops on Chinese soil and that
there were an additional 600,000 men either under arms or
available for immediate duty in Japan. Of this additional
600,000, these officers estimate they might need to send 300,000
more

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
more for the satisfactory completion of Japanese objectives
in China. These ofricers estimate that the war will last
two months longer at least, and possibly until the end of
the year.
Of some interest also were the comments made to me
by a Japanese whom I know very well, and with whom I am in
almost daily contact. This gentleman had two soldiers
billeted with him during the period of troop concentration
in Kobe from August 8th to 13th. He informed me that both
these young soldiers had been killed after being only a
week in China. He commented on the fact that the best troops
were being held in reserve, according to his theory because
of the fear of Russian complications, and that relatively
untrained soldiers of inferior quality were being used in
China. According to him, and according to other sources
with which I have been able to check, the units in China are
largely made up of very young soldiers and relatively old
men, the sturdy middle groups, namely, the second and third
reserve, being held in Japan.
The situation here from a psychological point of view
should only be commented on with caution. However, it appears
as follows:
A large amount of surface enthusiasm has been worked up
among the common people although even among these classes
there is a tendency to feel that Japan has undertaken a very
difficult task. Among the business people there is a feeling
of deep concern as to the outcome of the Chinese policy. In
conversation they are inclined to state that the war will be
over very shortly but it is easy to see that this is more an
expression of a wish than any real conviction. They are, of
course, thoroughly loyal and close-mouthed but genuinely worried.
NO

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
No special incidents affecting the relations between
the Japanese authorities and foreigners have come to my
attontion. There is no noticeable hostility toward the
Chinese as yet, many of whom are returning each week to
China. There is a slight tightening up of various regu-
lations, particularly in matters pertaining to activities
at the port. Most of the vessels coming in have notices
posted forbidding travellers from taking cameras ashore.
This morning an American coming ashore from a steamer on
which such a notice had not been displayed was caused a
great deal of difficulty by the police because of his
camera, although apparently he had been entirely innocent
of taking any pictures.
In this period of trouble it is at least pleasant to
record that, for the moment at least, there is genuine
friendliness toward the United States and appreciation of
America's policy of realistic neutrality in the present
crisis. Remarks reflecting such sentiments have been
voiced to me by members of the Osaka Mainichi staff and
by members of the local Rotary Club and other business men.
Respectfully yours,
Winthrop R. Scott
American Consul
4 coper
ro.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.95)
171
AMERICAN CONSÚLATE,
Kobe, Japan, September 20, 1937.
Striotly Confidential
894120
SUBJECT:
Military Matters in Kobe, Japan.
1—1055
COPTE
11.1).
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
8
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Division of
894.20/136
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
WASHINGTON.
OF STATE
As of possible interest to the Department, I have
9
honor to enclose a copy of my strictly confidential
lotter of September 20, 1937, reporting to the Ambassador
concerning military matters in this district.
Respectfully yours,
F/MR
Wrilliop Rsir
Vinthrop R. Scott
American Consul
Enclosure:
COT 26 1037
Copy of letter to American
FILED
Ambassador, Tokyo, September
20, 1937.
800
WRS/hjs
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.97)
melosure to Despatoh No. 171 "Military Matters in
Kobe, Japan", September 20, l937, from Consul
Winthrop R. Soott, Kobe, Japan.
Kobe, Japan
Septe ber 20, 1937
Strietly Conridential
The Nonorable
Joseph C. Grew,
merioan mbasnador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to  y cormunication of
September 13, 1937 w1th rospeot to military  atters and
in conneotion therewith to u ly th follo in report:
This Consulate is now in a position to state that
the troops moved fran Osake roforred to in the letter
mentioned above comprised one Jivision (Mo. 9) from
Asahigawa, lioktaido.
At the present time an uadtion 1 embarkation of
troops from kobe is takin p1 ce. me units inolude 11 ht
artillery, cavalry and sond truns ortation units. For this
purpose sixteen troop ships re bein: used. Last evening
approximately six or seven of these slips loft. Further
dopartures are takin place today. he troops now leaving
Kobe are a portion of tho firet division from okyo. This
has not only been vouched by reliabl sources but is indicated
by the ins1miw: on the cout lapels.
On the more conjeotural side but still vortliy of con-
sidoration, I have leurned the rollovin from a reliable
contact who was recently disou sing the Chinese situation
with some officers st tioned in this vicinity. Mhis con-
tact informs me that these officers stated that there were
at the present time S00,00o Japancse troops on Chinese soil
and

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.96)
一2.
that there were an additional 600,000 men either under
 or available for immediate duty in Japan. Or this
additiomal 600,000, these officers estimate they misht noed
to semd 300,000 more for the satisfactory completion of
Japanese objeetives in China. These officers estimate that
the war wili last two months longer at least, and possibly
until the ond of the year.
of some interest also were the comments made to me
by a Japanose whom I know very well, and with whom I am in
almost daily contact. This contloman had two soldiers
billeted with him during the period of troop conoentration
In Kobe from ugust Bth to 13th. Le informed me that both
those young soldiers had been killed after bein only a
woek in China. ic commented on the fact that the best
troops vere beine held in reserve, ac ordins to his theory
boeause of t e feur of ussian complications, and that
relatively untrained soldiers of inferior quality were
being used in China. vcoordin: to him, and according to
other souroes with whioh I have been ablo to oheok, the
units in China are largely made up of vory youns soldiers
and relatively old nen, the sturdy middle groups, namely,
the second an t ird reserve, being held in Japan.
The situation here from  psychologioal point of view
should only be commented on vith caution. Hovever, it
appears as follows:
A large amount of surface  nthusiasm has been vorked
up among the common people al thou h even among these classes
there 1s a tendenoy to feel that Ja pun has undertalten a very
difrioult task. mon the bus noss poople there is a
feeling of deep conoern as to the outcome of the Chinese
poliey. In conversation they are inolined to state that
the war will be over very slhortly but it is easy to see
that this is more an expression of a wish than any real
conviotion. They are, of course, thorou ly loyul and
olose-mouthed but genuinely vorried.
 No speoial inoidents affectin: the relations betveen
the Japanese authorities and foreirners have come to my
attention. There is no noticeable lostility tovard the
Chinese as yet,  any of  or are returnins ouch week to
China. There is a sli ht tightenin: up o various regu-
lations, particularly in matters pertainin to aotivities
at the port. Most of the vessels pomin: in have notioes
posted forbiddin travellers fro: takin: ouncras ashore.
2.1s

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.95)
- 3-
s morming an Ameriean coming ashore from a steamer on
which such a notice had not been displayed was caused a
weat deal of difrioulty by the police because of this
emera, although apparensly he had been entirely innocent
of taking any piotures.
In this period of trouble it is at least pleasant to
reoord that, for the moment at least, there is genuine
friendliness toward the United tates and appreciation
of Ameriea's policy of reulistic neutrality in the present
orisis. Remarks refleoting suoh sentiments have been
voieed to me by members of tho Osaka : ainiohi staff and
by members of tho looal otary lub and other business men.
Respeotfully yours,
inthron
oott
rorioan Consul
A trse copy of
the staned ong-
nal.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.93)
F
H
174
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
STATE
PM 4 09
Kobe, Japan, September 30, 1937.
6
1.1 A
SUBJECT:
Military Matters in Kobe, Japan.
11066 GPO
894.20/187
THE HONORABLE
Division of
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
β
WASHINGTON.
Department
SIR:
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
DEPARTMEN
As of possible interest to the Department, I have
OF STATE
th
honor to enclose a copy of my strictly confidential
concerning military matters in this district.
S
Respectfully yours,
F/MR
Wintlwp RSeois
Winthrop R. Scott
American Consul
Inclosure:
Copy of letter to American
Ambassador, Tokyo, September
30, 1937.
800
WRS/hjs
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Carova CUgLOy

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.98)
Enolosure No. 1 to Striotly Confidential Despatoh
No. 174 "Military Matters in Kobe, Japan"
September 30, 1937, from Consul Winthrop R. Soott,
Kobe, Japan.
Kobe, Japan
September 30, 1937
Striotly Conridential
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
Amerioan mbassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my communication of
September 20, 1937, with respect to military matters in
Kobe, and to report briefly on the followin developments
sinee that date.
The last ten days there has been a continuous oon-
centration and embarkation of troops from Kobe. hile it
is diffioult to cheek on all the units, it is understood
that the balanoe of the Kanazawa D:vision has been embarked
and that troops now leaving Kobe inolude the 8th Division
from Hirosaki, Aomori Prefeoture.
About nine days ago a cholera epidemio broke out in
Hiroshim ith the result that troops which were destined
to exit from that port are now being sent to Kobe, adding
greatly to the influx of soldiers in the oity. It is
Impessible to estimate with any accuracy the total number
of troops moving at this time but it would not be far
from the mark to state that an average of four or five
transports are sailing from Kobe a day. Apparently all
the various branches of the fighting service are represented
and, in addition, Red Cross units.
There

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
There have been persistent rumors from travellers
seming from Dairen to the effect that there has been
something in the nature of a mutiny in Manohuria. One
returning traveller reports that about a week ago there
was an explesion on one of the trains north of Mukden
due to a bomb whioh had been previously placed thereon.
No doubt the Imbassy is much better informed on this
point than this Consulate; however, as a possible
confirmation of trouble in Manchuria, it may be reported
that steamers coming from Dairen are bringing baok an
appreciable number of soldiers' ashes. The Kitsurin
Maru whiok arrived recently in Kobe from Dairen landed
115 boxes with ashes, and the Nekka liaru, also from Dairen,
30 boxes. This would appear to indicate there had been
some fighting in Manohuria since the Japanese would
soareely return bodies from China via the long railway
journey through Mukden.
There is no new trend with respeot to the psyohologioal
attitude in this seotion, nor concerning matters affecting
foreigners. In spite or the stend we have recently taken
with respeot to the bombings of Nanking, t! ere is no
notieeable diminution of the friendly feeling toward
Amerioa.
Respectfully yours,
inthrop . Soott
American Consul
 true copy of

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE.793.94/10946
FOR
Te1.510.3pm
FROM
Japan
Grow
) DATEDOV21937
TO
NAME
1-112
394.20/188
Sino-Japanese conflict: Jupanene army, objectives and atti-
REGARDING:
tude of Jarane e people tiereto.
Report received fron t e actin ilitary attache, 'ajor
Creswell.
RG.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.93)
JR
This telegram must bE
Tokyo
NOTE
closely paraphrased bE-
forE bEing communicated
Dated November 2, 1937
to anyonE. (B)
REc'd 9:15 a.m.
SecrEtary of State,
Wanhington.
510, ovember 2, 3 p.m.
The rollowing rEport to me from tht Act ing Military
Attache ajor Cruswell is in my opinion most timely and
would bs f internt to oun Dals tion n" the Brussels
ConfErence.
" t. Ine i a he b an ou nin d in the coursE of
the past few cye  den' c  corcoborate rtooes which
have been current for some tve weuks to the effeet that
1
51
the strength of the kwantun" army hae undergont a corsider-
able increasE. The sizE of the army including the troops
under its control now opErating in Suiyuan FrovincE is
Estimated by this officE as in thE vicinity of 230,000 mEn:
Two. Thin force has bEen built up gradually and has
10746
rEached ite prEsent sizE as a rEsult of precautionary
rather thuan preparatory considerations the Elementn Entcring
into such precautionary mEasurts bEing thE fact that therE
is suspicion rEgarding Sino-Sovis undErstandings, that
trouble is feared from the Outer Hongolian triiEs as a rEsult
of ChinEsE and Russian instigation, that thE disaffEctions
in

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.92)
JR -2- /510, NovEmbEr 2, 3 p.m., from Tokyo.
in the anchukuo army art rEater than appEar on thE
surfacE and finally thE pE: nninl apprehension that Russia
may enter the strugslE while the JapanEsE arE Embroiled
with China.
Three. It is felt that the hwantung army hae been
built up by troops formed in Jap'n ir tht courat of the
mobilizn ion metivitits whic': ave been takin. pl: ce for the
past few w:cks   cll ne y cert in number of additions
from thn orth Chip or, 1thon thE E: tent to which
the foreee in e th Ti.  ve bat iherEasEd in or Er to
add to the ant m cs to eay. such a decision
to weaken the orth Chin. eet in favor of the Hwan tung
army could mean only that Tht sun of the conditions
nentioned in paragraph tvo are of sufeicient import to
wairant the diminishing or  momente ne ir op he
operations in Horth Chin in proportion ns the strength of
that arrisor is itduced.
Jour. At prr eent, hovuver, the orth China und
Shanghai operat ions cun ot : vicwed as unrelated activities.
The YOMIURI SHIMBUN of this morning carrics an article
covering a statement by GEneral Matsui comrending at
Shanghui to thE EffEct that the objEctivE of his forcE is
Nanking. This opinion as to the irsction of future opErati
in that sEctor was also voiced in other quartErs and
within the last week this ofricE hassecumed identifications
which indic te tha some troons which have heretoforE
been Engaged in Horth Chin opEr.tions arE now
opErating at Shanghai.
Identifications have also bEen madE

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.93)
-3- #510, NovEmbEr 2, 3 p.m., from Tokyo.
which indicate the presencE of a certain emount of
cavalry at Shinghai which points to Expectation of a morE
open form of action then has charactErized thE opErations
in that sEctor prior to thE rEcent advancEs.
FivE. Viewed in their relation to thE opErations in
Horth China the uun of tht stute unte tvidonere by
indications mentioned in tht prtctdin pa ragreph may well
mEan th t with wh t the Ja mest coneider as o thret from
the northwest r the ct  t tht outrtione in North
Chine have thue  te in cem da finitely dEstroy
thE ChinEsE foicte thy daeisiony havE been
madE to temporarily sunpEnd or limit thE southvard movement
in North Chine nd insteed to delivEr the dEcicivE blow
via Nanking. However, the lapantse army has  resarve of
some 3,000,00o men nd vith tht prtstnt : rmy bein variously
EstinntEd as bEtween 900,000 nd 1,250,000 men it is
Evident that if tht deci. ion bn to draw further upon the
man power of the nitio r  uple rEsources in that
respcct for continuin onertlors on a lurge scule on all
fronts.
Six. All classEs or tht pEoplE fEEl that thE sEcurity
and futurt ExistEnct of the nation arE involved in the
present situation and that there can bE no turning back
no matter what pressurE bE brought by other powers. JapanEsE
opinion

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.90)
-4- #510, HovEmbEr 2, 3 p.m., from Tokyo.
opinion is firmly bEhind thE armed sErvicEs in this rEspEct
and they arE spiritually prEparcd for any Eventuality Even
though the En tranct of Ruesia into thr present struy lE
precipitotes a world war through tht spread of hostilities
to thE west. Rirorts have it that a survey of capital and
bank deposits is being carried out with a view to the
mobilization of copital in con  ction with preparations for
such un Eventu lity vn a vwar of thres years duration.
Seven. t vdi E politic 1 vituation it is fEIt
that vhils the peol t mt 1  rnly inelined toward
the Konot CabivstrE
rowir P ling that thert is
 lacl of cucir o in h  becy which rosulte in a lors of
time ne the introdue' ion or n mcert in tlrmeut into the
conduct of nat ionel affaire in thir crisis. hie fesling
in ac ition to tht po sibility thet the he lth of the
rremier moy : ot bE E pual to the occesion h. given risE to
the thou ht thct should the present cabinet bE replaced the
nExt lovernment should bE handed by such a man as GEneral
Aral i or Admirel uuttcu u who voulo bE dcpEnded upon to form
governments of the type vhich would result in all the Elements
of the overnment, ermy, navy nd civil components function-
ing hirmoniously toward a conmon goal".
GEV
KT::C

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.91)
4
179
AMÉRICAN CONSULATE,
DEPARTMENT 
STA1
Kobe, Japan, October 11, 1937
1937 NOV 8 M 2 51
ONI ID
894.20
Military Matters in Kobe, Japan.
SUBJECT:
1—1065
GPO
894.20/189
E9.2
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
F LAS R FR
8
WASHINGTON.
Lopartiment of State
SIR:
As of possible interest to the Department, I have
ÉATTATE
he
honor to enclose a copy of my strictly confidential
ter of October 11, 1937, reporting to the mbassador
A-M/C
TY
acerning military matters in this district.
OF
Respectfully yours,
Uorullurp Rswn
inthrop R. Scott
merican Consul
N911 1937
Enclosure:
Copy of letter to merican
Ambassador, Tokyo, October
11, 1937.
4
800
WRS/hjs
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
F/G

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Strictly Confidential
Despatch Ho. 179 Lilitary .atters in Koie,
Japan", October 11, 1937, from Consul inthrop
K. Scott, obe, Japan.
Strietly Conridential
Kobe, Japan
Ootober 11, 1937
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
I have the honor to report the following developments
since my last communication concerning military matters
in this distriot.
As stated previously, partly owing to the epidemio of
cholera in Hiroshima which prevented embarkation from that
port Kobe has been continuously aotive with troop movemen's
up to last Friday, October 8th. It is not possible to
determine the exact units which were embarked although during
the last few days 2,500 men of the Second Division from
Tsuruga were inoluded in embarkations. The sending of troops
from the first and seoond reserves whioh, as previously
reported, had been commenoed several weeks ago was continued.
This inoludes men ranging between the ages of 25 and 38.
It is underatood that the oholera epidemio is now
virtually over in Hiroshima and possibly beoause of this
factor the embarkation of troops from Kobe has temporarily
ceased beginning with Ootober 8th. Customs wharves are now
open freely for entry to everyone without the use of military
passes. It is believed, however, that this lull in the
ombarkation of soldiers is only temporary and the aotivities
will be resumed in the near future.
Apparently the speech of President Roosevelt and other
recent utteranoes in the United States have evoked surprisingly
little hostile comment in this distriot. The common people
t111

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
still center their resentment on England whom they feel
is covertly aiding China. There is an almost pathetio
desire to keep on good terms with the United States. The
higher type business people are, of course, genuinely
worried at the new demarohe in America. In summary,
however, it oan be said that at present there is no
hostility to the United States.
Respeotfully yours,
inthrop. Soott
merican Consul
A true copy of
the algmed origt-

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.91)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
73.94 Conference/103
FOR1e19.2
894.20/190
FROM
Japan
Gruv
) DATEDOV., 1U37
TO
NAME
1-112
Vlitar. affairs - tx.
REGARDING:
Reports motilization of effeetive r litaer power 
Jepan na plam for sevui e ap ceral ecuqe rtere,
in oruer to l ce cpa: on s  rete
rsis
as possible.
nr
F/
R
87
n
C 0

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.98)
U
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 18, 1937.
Mr. Welles.
Mr. ecretary.
The last two paragrapns of the attached
copy of a letter written by the American
Consul in Kobe to the American Embassy in
Tokyo describe the phenomenon of rabid anti-
British sentiment prevalent in Japan, even
among "very responsible and high class
business men".
As an example he describes the
experience of one of the leaders of the
British social and business colony in Kobe
who, upon invitation, attended a dinner at
the "Fog Club" in Osaka, (a club composed of
persons who previously had lived in London
but whose membership is preponderantly
Japanese) and was deluged with "most out-
rageous" attacks upon the british and with
boasts that if Japan wanted it could take
Hong Kong, other British possessions in the
Far East, and even Canada without England's
being abie to stop them. The Japanese present,
who included some of the most prominent men
in the textile and other industries in Osaka,
also mentioned that Japan could easily take
the Philippine Islands.
m.m.
JMJ:JWB/REK

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.95)
184
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Kobe, Japan, Gctober 23, 1937
Divisiop of
FAR EASTERN
794.20
noti
894.0
SUBJECT:
Military Matters in Kobe, Japan.
1-1065
THE HONORABLE
ONI
894.20/191
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
3mmc
As of possible interest to the Department, I have
the honor to enclose a copy of my strictly confidential
1ter of October 23, 1937, reporting to the Ambassador
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
erning military matters in this district.
OF STATE
AMXQ
841927
Respectfully yours,
Winthrop R. Scott
American Consul
Enclosure:
Copy of letter to American
Ambassador, Tokyo, October
NOV231937
23, 1937.
ATE
800
WRS/hjs
In quintuplioate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
4.
F/G
八

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.95)
molosure No. 1 to Striotly Confidential
Despatch No. 184 "Military Matters in Kobe,
Japan", Ootober 23, 1937, from Consul Winthrop
R. Soott, Kobe, Japan.
Kobe, Japan
trietrxcasidential
Ootober 23, 1937
The Honorabkn
Joseph C. Qrew,
Amepon mbassador,
Toryo.
s1m
A ef possible interest in connection with the
recent ameellation of the visits of naval vessels to
the port of Kobe whioh, it is understood, is at the
behest of the Foreign Orfiee, I have the honor to
submit the following informetion:
Although  reported in numerous letters to the
Embassy Kobe has hmen very active as a port of embar-
kation, recently the movement of troops from this port
has been redueed to very small proportions. The last
week or so have witmessad the departure of only a few
transport troops from Kobe, and it is understood from
sourees whioh are belieted to be thoxoughly reliable
that the main movement or troops is mow taking place
from the port of Ujine near Hiroshime and that a
secondary and smaller embarkation movement is taking
place at Osaka. It will be recalled that due to the
contour of the ground near Ujtme this port is practically
sereemed from observation even from relatively mar spots
so that mmeh greater seereey san be given to mailings of
transports from that port.
This Consulate does not know, of course, on what
rounds the Japanese Government disapproved the further
entrance of naval vessels in Kobe, but merely for its
information the Embassy may wish to know that at the
present time the harbor is not in any way orowded.
there

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.95)
一 8 -
there beine plenty of beey space available for all
wpes of vessels and, furthermore, as stated above,
there is no impertant exodus of troeps or war
material at the present moment. This situation may
of course shange at a moment's notice.
In preyious reports I have alluded to the fact
that in Sptte of some rather umpalatable statements
which have teem made in the United tates, the
Japanese in tmis distriet are still deliberately
maintaining an mttitude of friendship for the United
States while panbering their resentment against the
bat qmate voluntarily members of the Kobe Rotary Club,
of whtsh I am a mataber and certain individuals on the
starf et the Osaka lminiahi have expressed views to
the atrest that they did mot resent Ameriea's position
which they felt was partly for hore consumption and
was alse lareely due te Brisish influence and so forth.
wmy Se make light or and diacount the attitude in the
United States.
With regerd to the British, however, the Japanese,
even very responsible and high-olass business men,
appear to have wompletely lost their heads. In this
commeetion last evening one of th leaders in the
British soeial and busimess colony in Kobe, a gentle-
man well known to the abassy gave me tke following
ammzing information:
He stated that he was a member of a Club in Osake
knowm as the "Fog Club". This Club is compoeed of
persens who previously have lived in Londem and its
membership is preponderantly Japanese. This English
sentleman wes invited to a drmmer given in Qsake by
improve the badly strained Bristah-Japanese relations.
Far from adopting a friendly attitude, however, after
a fow rounds of make the Japanese began attaoking the
British im the most outrageous manner. They went so
far as to state in a boastful way that England was
impotont

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.93)
- 3 -
Impotast and that if Japan wanted it could take
Beng Keng and other British possessions in the Far
do anything to stop them. Inoidentally, theymen-
tioned the faet that they could also easily take
gubat and that it was nat the place for disoussions
of this gart and that  of course could not listen
made by  few leading mambar of the Club. It is
not deemed apuropriate to mention by name Japanese
individuale who made the remarke refer ed to but I
was astonished to find that they inoluded some of
the most promimant men in the textile and other
Industries in Osaka, men who are wall known to the
Embassy.
Vory respeotfully yours,
inthrop R. Yoett
Anerican Consul
A true copy of
the signed grigt-
m1.7

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/11238
FORTe1#562,3pm
SEE
FROM
Japan
Grew
..) DATED.NQx..23..1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.20/
Sino-Japanese conflict:-Japanese Imperial Headquarters.
REGARDING:
Establishment of-, its organization and functions. Gives sub-
stance of statement issued on Nov 20, 1937. Estimate regard-
6
ing possibilities of a declaration of war.
2
FRG.
9

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.94)
MBo
A porticn of this tElEgram
Tokyo
must bE closely paraphrased
Dated Novtmber 23, 1937
beforE bEing comonunicatEd
to anyonE. (A)
REc1d 6:25 a.m.
SEcrEtary of State,
NOTE
Vas ington.
894.20
562, NovembEr 23, 3 p.r.
DEpartmEnt's 310, November 22, ? p.m.
OnE. As rEported ty Acsoc ated PrEss and other
An Er cear corrEsponeEnts lrr al HEniquarters was Entab
lished on NovEnbEr zoth.  orcrlsntion and tunctions
follow linEe indica'cd n or 33. A statcmEnt issuEd
that day by imper:1 HEcmurtErs in to thE rollowing Ef
fect.
(a) Imperiul HEndquartere vo an nstrument by which
thE Emperor will ExEreisE srEmE command over thE arny
and navy. Its Establishment ErfEcto no changE in thE
division bEtween thE fune' ors d rEsponsihilitiEs hithEr.
to assigned rEspEctively to thE  n onmand and to the
2
38
Government and rumors to +:E EflEct that thEsE two agEnciEs
will bE combinEd arE without foundation.
(b) ThE dutiEs of ImpErial HEadquartErs arE to ad-
visE thE EmpEror on thE ExErcisE of suprEmE command to
formulatt high strategical plans and to assurE coordina-
tion bEtwEEn thE army and navy.
(e)

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.86)
2- No. 562, NovEmbEr 23, frcm Tokyo.
(c) MEmbErs of thE Ca inEt arE not to bE assignEd to
ImpErial Headquarters but thEy will bE invited to confer
With Imperinl HEadquarters when occasion arises. (END
:A).
"wo. our EstimatE w t regard to possibilitiEs of a
dEclai ation of war as set "ort! in paragraph five of our
524, NovEmbEr 6, 6 p.m., is st 1l that thE dEtErmining
factor vill lE hcter sup Tie or s und munitione to
China contirue in pubstantiul unt ties.
E
T：

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.91)
191
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Kobe, Japan, November 2, 1937
OIATIONS
EaA S
 DS
DIVISION OF
RECNE
29
0N1
MID
NOO
SHJECT:
Military Matters in Kobe, Japan.
GPO
894.20
894.20/1
E JL
THE HONORABLE
file
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
6
as of possible interest to the Department, I have
the honor to enclose a copy of my strictly confidential
letter of November 2, 1937, reporting to the mbassador
concerning military matters in this district.
SECRARY
Respectfully yours,
Wiultuop Rsios
Winthrop R. Scott
American Consul
1937
losure:
Copy of letter to American
Ambassador, Tokyo, November
2, 1937.
800
WRS/hjs
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
F

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.96)
Enolosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 191, November 2, 1937,
"Military Matters in Kobe, Japan" from Consul
Winthrop R. Soott, Kobe, Japan.
Strietly Conridential
Kobe, Japan
November 2, 1937
Homprable
Josoph C. Grew,
Amerlean Ambmssador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
I have the honor to report the following infor-
mation concerning military matters in Kobe.
After a comparative lull in the movement of troops
from Kobe there has been a concentration of about 10,000
soldiers here during the last four or five days. These
troops are made up of second reservists comprising men
from the ages of 27 to 35 years and inoluding infantry,
transport, and artillery units. These troops comprise
a portion of the 4th Divimion from Tokye, And Division
from Senda1, and 3rd Divisiom from Nagoya. s00o left
Kobe Sunday, Ootober 3lst, and ehe balance yesterday,
November lst.
Respeottully yours,
Winthrop R. Beott
American Consul
true copy
 rigned uy
.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
.20
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/11342
FOR
2657
SEE
Japan
Grew
) DATEDNov 10.1937
FROM
NAME
1-1127
TO
894.20/194
Sino-Japanese conflict:-Japanese "Imperial Headquarters".
REGARDING:
Discusses establishment of-; encloses translation of Ordi-
nance 293, Dec 28, 1903.
FRG.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.87)
DER
ADRIOAN COSRULATE
ONI NID
Yobe. Japan g
November 10, 1957
Division of
b
FAR EASTERN AFFAUNS
The Noncsable
Joseph C. wow.
Departmem of Sraty
浮
DEPARTMENT
COMMUNICATIONS
meriean bassador,
AND RECURJS
DIVISION OF
3
RECEIVED
Tokyo.
c3
OF
STATE
Sir:
0
I have the honor to ref r to a o nverastiom whiah
AA
I had with Lieutonant-  lon 1 Crans about ten daya ano
6
 the ooonsion of his r turn fro. Chine, at which
Mons branahes of the crvice were in obe awmitine:
EAR
kation. amplifying thin informution it may now be
6
5
Stated that an additiomal 0.) 0 nen arrived in Kobe a
fow daye ago, the total onodus of the 60.000 having been
completed yeaterdey. I have loarned from e souree which
I beliove reliable that thene troope are destined for
underatood that they ore mixod units fron virious parts
of the Island.
Now troops aro arrivin today in obe. They are
estimmted to be about  o.ooo men, all yount, well net up
soldiere. They ino:ude regimonts fron the "ourteenth
Division (Cniba).
rmumably

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.90)
一8
Presummbly the Fmbessy has mere or less reliable
fRewes as to the total nster of troope in Chins, but
mesaly as of possible interest it may be stated that
statesnts made by v:rious offiours and coldiers billeted
in Kote are to the effeot that there are now about a
million Japamose soldiers in Chimm and that moct of these
have been ment from the region of Eiroshin, Xobe and
0a.
There are no speoial developmenta to ro:ort with
regard to the rel tions batmen the Japanese and foreign
eitimens in thin re ion.  parently there is now some
attempt to areate more cardial ro tions betveen the
British amd the Japanxne. his noverent is being pushed
to some extent by the looal Dritiat (onsul Mo oalled on
mo porsonally tho other ay to urre  to attend a banquet
to be iven in Usakn Jointly by the Janan-Dritiah and
Japan-Amerio ooietics for the ostenaiblo purpooe of
wlcoming Imok to Japan tho Kaiano conomio ission. In
spite of the recent moriain deny rohe with rosmeot to the
Mar stern situation shero does not appar to be any
rowing hostility towardn vorioano in tho Xwansal.
While the reported Japanese viotorics in Chine are
mturally mubjoet for ratirioation to ll Japanose,
nevertheleas the undertonx of peasimion in business
eirales persists. Reoently a Japan ne profossional mn
of very high standing and considerable :xans conmulted
dth e member of thin starr o to th possibility of
taking up a pemmanent residence in the United tates. Be

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.87)
-3-
avomed himselr utterly disoouraged with the intornal
situation in Japan, out of aympathy with both olitical
and economio policies, ax afruic that his capital
which is entirely in yen vll be nex u t rou  taxes
or depreoiation or both..
ea ectfullyur
'nthror. cott
r'ca one
000
R/nja
Original to mbassador, oxyo
mree copies to rpurtment of
tate
One copy to Consulate neral, Tokyo.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/11738
Tel #1195, 9am
SEE
FOR
304.20/196
Shanghai
Gauss
Dec 20, 1937
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
SPO
Sino-Japanese conflict:-struggle going on in Japanese army
REGARDING:
in this part of China of senior officers including Matsui
and so-called junior officers, including Colonel Hashimoto.
News despatch by Abend being sent to NEW YORK TINES, shown to
Consulate. Information sent Abend by Matsui's headquarters
for publication in America and the desired recabling to Japan;
no Japanese newspaper daring to publish same on its initiative.
FRG.
196

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
JR
This telegram must bE
Shanghai
closely paraphrased bE-
forE being communicated
Dated DEcember 20, 1937
to anyonE. (B)
REc'd 12:05 p.m.
894.20
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
1195, DEcEmbEr 0, 9 a.m.
Abend, NEW YOX TIMES corrEspondent, has shown mE
his nEws dEspatch of today reporting strugglE going on
in JapanEsE army in this part of China of thE sEnior
officers including Mntsui and so-called junior officers
including ColonEl Hashimoto who was at uhu and whosE forces
prEsumably wErE involvEd in the machinE-gunning and
boarding of thE PANAY. Abend tElls mE in strictest
confidencE that thE material was Ent hErE for him from
Matsui's headquarters by special airplanE with pErsonal
request that facts bE cabled to New York, thE idea being
3
that no JapanEsE nEwspaper vould darE to publish facts of
8
this kind on its initiativE bus that thE nEws will bE
cabled back to Japan after it hus anpEared in Nev York.
Not repeated ElsEwherE.
GAUSS
FR:HPD

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.95)
14.20
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/11891a
Tel #364, 5pm
SEE
FOR
)DATED
Dec.201937
894.20/
TO
NAME
1-1127
OPO
Japan
Split in Japanese command over disciplining of officers re-
REGARDING:
sponsible for recent Japanese attacks on American and British
vessels.
Commenting on-, quotes from The NEW YORK TDES.
The Department expects to receive Tuesday or Wednesday the
691
findings of the U.S. Naval Court of Inquiry in regard to the
PANAY incident.
7
FRG.
3

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
894.20
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
793.94/12193
FOR
#2715
FROM .Japan
Grew
) DATED
Jan 4, 1938
894.20/ 198
TO
NAME
1-1127
Sino-Japanese conflict: discipline of the Japanese army.
REGARDING:
Rebirth of the Feb 26th element to the extent of striking at
constituted authority or to seriously influence its conduct
of operations: "little likelihood of-", according to Major
Creswell's opinion. Embassy has no evidence tending to
controvert this.
FRG.
198

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/772
FOR....Teleram../lO5,..6..p.m.
894.20
FROM
Japan
(....Grew
) DATED.eb.141933.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Bill to mobilize national resources to be presented
to the Diet by the Government, purpose of which
6
is to place under control of Imperial hendcuarter
6
in time of war all forms cf proauctive industry.
b
894.20
88

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
JR
A portion of this telegram
Tokyo
must bE closely paraphrased
beforE being communicatEd
Dated FEbruary 14, 1938
To
to anyonE.(A)
Rec'd 9:05 a.m.
0
Secretary of State,
Washington.
105, FEbruary 14,  p.m. (GRAY)
OnE. Sensational rumors art current that thE political
partits art s strongly opnostd to a bill to "mobilize
national rEsourcts" which is shortly to bE prEsented to
thE Diet by thE Government that a political crisis of thE
first order mi ht bE prtcinitatad. It is my purposE in
prEsenting thE following EstimatE to bE hElpful to thE
Dipartment in weighing dEspatches on this subject from
17
American correspondents.
wc. ThE bill is now bEing draftEd by thE National
0
Planning Board and thE Bureau of LEgislation and its
precisE tErms arE, therEforE, not known. ThE Government
7
7
has, however, bεEn informally Exnlaining thE principal
N
features of thE measurE to mEmbErs of thE DiEt and has
madE it clear that thE purposE of thE bill is primarily
to placE under the control of Imperial headquarters in timE
of war or of "incidents" virtually all forms of productivE
industry. Opnosition is bEing ExprEssed by various
parliamentary

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.96)
-2- #105, FEbruary 14, C p.m., from Tokyo.
parliamentary Elcments to thE proposEd dElEgation to thE
Executivt of authority to apply such control along with
the authority to impost by ExecutivE ordinances restrictions
in various other ways on thE right of privatE initiativE.
It is being affirmed that thE measurE is intended to bE
a prEludE to thE introduction of an authoritarian form of
GovErnmEnt. (END GRAY)
Thret. ThE suggEstion has bEen thrown out that thE
political partits will makE the prEsEntation of thE bill
an occasion for a definitE stand against thE increasing
control over Covernment by the army which is rEportedly
insisting upon thE Enactment of thE bill. TherE sEems to
bE no douht but that thE scatt ErEd remnants of thE so-callEd
liberal Element are gathering together to defend as far
 ro irl thE ri ht of privatE initiativE. WE undErstand,
however, that their opposition is concentrated on thE
fact that thE bill is being drafted with too broad a pEn
and will provid: for thE details being filled in by
ExEcutivE ordinancEs. It is still too Early to say whether
or not thE army will agreE to the bill being madE morE
Exnlicit. H wEver, a prominent mEmber of thE DiEet informEd
us today that: hE Expected that thE bill would EvEntually bE
approved after Extensivt alteration.
GREW
WC:RR

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.98)
894.20
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/12450
Te1 /1618-1712
SEE
FOR
FROM
Navy Department
DATED
Feb18.1938
894.20/200
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Japanese army in China: General Matsui reported being releaved
by General Hata.
FRG.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
Division of
FAR EASTERTALFAINS
B
FE/2A
DIVISNON OF FAR EASTE
uary24,1938
Our reports from the Far East are lately
mmking considerable point or the excesses and
unrestrained violence of Japanese soldiers in
occupied areas of Chinmym and I note that the
Commander-in-Chier at Shanghai has indicated
to Major-General Harada that matters have gone
so far that the honor of the Japanese army has
become involved.
It may be of interest to check the beha-
vior of Japanese military forces, as indicated
in our reports, with the Imperiai Precepts to
the soldiers and sailors of Japan, appended
herewith. These precepts are in effect a code
of honor laid down by the Emperor for the guid-
ance of soldiers,and sailors in their general
conduot. The unferlined passages in the at-
tached paper will indicate how far from their
code of honor some of the Japanese forces ap-
pear to have departed.
We might, with some purpose, make some
general reference to the Imperial Precepts
when there is occasion to protest the overt
aots of Japanese soldiers. We might say that
it has been noted how at variance certain re-
ported acts of Japanese soldiers are with the
Imperial Precepts to soldiers and sailors
and that it has been difricult to reconcile
this situation with the fact that in past con-
fliots involving Japanese soldiers the dis-
cipline of theesoldiers has been proverbial.
FE:LDS:NN

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MR. HORNBECK
JAN 2 6 1933
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SOURCE: THE JAPAN YEAR BOOK 1936,
National Defence,
pp. 226-229.
ision o
PAM LASTAN NTAINS
894.20
nsto
The Imperial Precepts to The
Soldiers and Bailors
Departinent of State
(Japan)
894.30
The foroes of Our Impire are in all ages under the
command of the Imperor.....The supreme oommand of Our
foroes is in Our hands, and although We may entrust
894.20/20
subordinate commands to Our subjeots, yet the ultimate
authority We Ourself shall hold and never delegate to
any subjoot. It is Our will that this prinoiple be
carefully handed down to posterity and that the Emperor
always retain the supreme civil and military power, so
that the disgrace of the middle and suoceeding ages may
never be repeated.....If you all do your duty, and being
one with Us in spirit do your utmost for the protection
of the state, Our people will long enjoy the blessings
of peace, and the might and dignity of our Empire will
shine in the world. As We thus expeot much of you,
soldiers and Sailors, We give you the following precepts:-
(1) The soldier and the sailor should consider
F
loyalty their essential duty. Who that is born in this
W
land ean be wanting in the spirit of grateful service
to

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
-a
to it? No soldier or sailor, especially, can be con-
sidered efficient umless this spirit be strong within
him. A soldier or a sailor in whom this spirit is not
strong, however skilled in art or proficient in soience,
is a mere puppet; and a body of soldiers or sailors
wanting in loyalty, however well ordered and disciplined
it may be, is in an emergenoy no better than a rabble.
Remember that, as the proteotion of the state and the
maintenanoe of its power depend upon the strength of its
arms, the growth or deoline of this strength must affeot
the nation's destiny for good or for evil; therefore
neither be led astray by current opinions nor meddle in
politios, but with single heart fulfil your essential
duty of loyalty, and bear in mind that duty is weightier
than a mountain, while death is lighter than a feather.
Never by failing in moral principle fall into disgrace
and bring dishonour upon your name.
(2) The soldier and the sailor should be strict in
observing propriety. Soldiers and sailors are organized
in grades, from the Marshal and the Admiral of the Fleet
down to the private soldier or ordinary seaman; and even
within the same rank and grade there are differences in
seniority of service acoording to which juniors should
submit to their seniors. Inferiors should regard the
orders of their superiors as issuing directly from Us.
Alway

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
Always pay due respeot not only to your superiors but
also to your seniors, even though not serving under them.
On the other hand, superiors should never treat their
inferiors with contempt or arrogance. Ixcept when official
duty requires them to be strict and severe, superiors
should treat their inferiors with consideration, making
kindness their chief aim, so that all grades may unite
in their service to the Imperor. If you, Soldiers and
Sailors, neglect to observe propriety, treating your
superiors with disrespect and your inferiors with harsh-
ness, and thus cause harmonious co-operation to be lost,
you will not only be a blight upon the foroes but also
be unpardonable offenders against the state.
(3) The soldier and the sailor should esteem valour.
Ever since the anoient times valour has in our country
been held in high esteem, and without it Our subjeots
would be unworthy of their name. How then may the
soldier and the sailor, whose profession it is to con-
front the ememy in battle, forget even for one instant
to be valiant? But there is true valour and false. To
be incited by mere impetuosity to violent action cannot
be called true valour. The soldier and the sailor should
have sound disorimination of right and wrong, oultivate
self-possession, and form their plans with deliberation.
Never to despise an inferior enemy or fear a superior,
but

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
4
but to do one's duty as soldier or sailor-this is true
valour. Those who thus appreoiate true valour should in
their daily interoourse set gentleness first and aim to
win the love and esteem of others. If you affeot valour
and aot with violence, the world will in the end detest
you and look upon you as wild beasts. Of this you should
take heed.
(4) The soldier and the sailor should highly value
faithfulness and righteousness.....
(5) The soldier and the sailor should make simplicity
their aim.....
The 4th day of the 1st month of the 15th Year of
Meiji.
(Imperial Sign Manual)
10

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00/776
FOR
Despatch tt1212
894.20/ 202
FROM Shanghai
Gauss
 DATEDeb.121938
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Cancellation of Army Order of Punishment; announcement in Tokyo
of same.
M

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.94)
1212
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Shanghai, Ohina, Febrwary 18, loss.
Announeememt in Tokyo of Cancellution
Subjeet:
of Army Order of Punishmemt.
THE H NORADLE
THE LCRET.Y  1 T
WASHINGT.
Sir:
I have the honor to invite the Department's
estention to paragraph four of the onclosed Heuter's
despateh fron Tokyo, published in today's WORTH CHINA
DAIly NEws (British). utatine that a Japenese army
order has been issued canceline a previous order of
pumishmeat issued in conneotion with offenses com-
misted prior to February 1l, l938, in fevor of those
soldiers who had on that date already been punished
or who were still undergoing punishment or whose
pumishment had been postpemed or otherwise not executed.
Paragraph five of the elipping states that it is
believed the erder ineludes soldiers punished fer
infreetiems of discipline in Chime. If this order has
mot already been broughs to she asteation of the Depart-
mont it is shoughs shis newe despaseh may be of interest
in eommeetien wish the exeeution of any order of

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.82)
-8
pumiskment whiek may have been Lssued against Japanese
seldiers invelved in offenses against Ameriean citizens
or the Ameriean flag in China.
Respeetfully yours,
C. I. Gauss
Amerioan Consul Goneral
Enelesure:
1/- Clippin from THE NoRTh ChINA
DAILY NKNS of Februery 12, l938.
 Gulntuplicate.
Gorx to kmbaeey. Fankow.
Carz to knbaeeL. Peipins.
Sorx to Xmbmaax. Tokre.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.97)
Enelosure No. 1 to despaton No. 2/) of C. . Gauss,
Ameriean Consul Genernl nt Shanchal, China, dated
February 18, l938, on the sutjeot: "Announoement in
Tokyo of Cancellation of Army Order of Punishment."
(britisb),
URCE:
FORF C.INA ILY
February 12, 1938.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY
Japanese Empire
Day is Enhanced
By Mass Amnesty
Citizenship Rights Restored
to 300,000 People
LEADERS OF TOKYO ARMY
REVOLT INCLUDED
Tokyo, Feb. 11.
Three hundred thousand Japanese,
including 150,000 political offenders,
have been reinstated to full citizenship
by an Imperial Amnesty issued to-day
on the occasion Empire Day which
marks the 2,598th anniversary of the
Accession of Emperor Jimmu, Japan's
first Ruler, and the 50th anniversary
of the promulgation of the Constitu-
tion.
Death sentences have been com-
muted to life sentences, while life
sertences have been commuted to im-
prisonment or penal servitude for
twenty years. Those already serving
time have had their terms commuted
to half the original sentences.
The former Capt. Ittaro Yamaguchi
and six other leaders of the revot in
Tokyo on February 26, 1936, have had
their life sentences commuted to
twenty years' imprisonment, while the
former Naval Sub-Lieutenant Kiyoshi
Koga and three other naval officers,
who were involved in the assassina-
tion of the then Premier, Baron
Inukai, and other crimes in the ter-
rorist demonstration on May 15, 1932,
have had the remainder of their
sentences commuted by one quarter.
An Army order announces the
cancellation, from to-day, of "an
Army order of punishment
issued
in connection with offences com-
mitted previous to February 11
in favour of those who have already
been punished or who are still under
punishment, or whose punishment
has been exempted, postponed, sus-
pended or otherwise not executed."
This order, it is believed, includes
soldiers punished for infractions of
discipline in China.
Japan's Rise to Power
In celebra'ion of to-day's double
event, the Japanese newspapers draw
particular
attention
t0
Japan's
meteorie rise to the position of a
first-class
Power. Among
other
things, they point out tnat Japan's
greatness is evidenced by contrast
of the Budge: of 1868. which totalled
Y.30,500,000, with that of 1938. which
totals Y.7.860.000.00c—madc u) of the

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
SATURDAY,
Japanese Empire
Day is Enhanced
By Mass Amnesty
Citisenship Rigists Bestored
-to 300,000 People
LEADERS OF TORYO ARMY
REVOLT INCLUDED
Tokyo, Feb. 11.
Three hundred thousand Japanese,
including 150,000 political offenders.
have been reinstated to full citizenship
by an Imperial Ammesty isued to-day
on the occasion Empire Day which
marks the 2 hosth anniversary of the
Accession of Emperor Jimmu, Japan's
first Ruler, and the 50th anniversary
of the promulgation of the Constitu-
tion.
Death sentences have been com-
muted to ife sentences, while life
sertences have been commuted to im-
prisonment or penal servitude for
twenty years. Those already serving
time have had their terms commuted
to half the original sentences.
The former Capt. Ittaro Yamaguchi
and six other leaders of the revolt in
Tokyo on Februery 26, 1936, have had
their life sontences commuted to
twenty years' imprisonment, while the
former Naval Sub-Lieutenant Kiyoshi
Koga and three other naval officers,
who were involved in the assassina-
tion of the then Premier, Baron
Inukai, and other crimes in the ter-
rorist demonstration on May 15, 1932,
have had the remainder of their
sentences commuted by one quarter.
An Army order announces the
cancellation, from to-day, of "an
Army order of punishment issued
in connection with offences com-
mitted previous to February 11
in favour of those who have already
been punished or who are still under
punishment, or whose punishment
has been exempted, postponed, sus-
pended or otherwise not executed."
This order, it is believed, includes
soldiers punished for infractions of
discipline in China.
Japan's Rise to Power
In celebration of to-day's double
event, the Japanese newspapers draw
particular
attention
to
Japan's
meteoric rise to the position of a
first-class
Power. Among
other
things, they point out that Japan's
greatness is evideneed by contrast
of the Budget of 1868, which totalled
Y.30,500,000, with that of 1938. which
totals Y.7.860,000.000—made up o1 the
ordinary Budget of Y.2.860,000,000 and
the "China Ineiden:" Budget of
Y.5.000,0C0.c00.
Editorials in the Japanese
news-
papers emphasize that the nation
must make fresh efforts for the
enhancement of national prestige and
to bring about stabilization of the
situation in East Asia.
To-day's celebrations
in Tokyo
were conducted ashore. afloat and
aloft. Over 200,000 citizens, mostly
students and members of the Young
Men's and Young Woinen's associa-
tions. paraded through the streets
and converged at the plaza in front
of the Imperial Palace. Forty civilian
aeroplanes
Visited Tokyo to take
part in
the celebrations,
winle
all
the
ships
in
Tokyo
Bay
and the
Sumida
River were
in
full dress.
At 10 o'clock this morning, all
Japanese citizens in Tokyo stopped
their work and, facing the Imperial
Palace. paid a minute's silent tribute
to the Emperor. - Rcuter.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.88)
6-6
RECEIVER
40
2.2
Division of
MAR 27 1938
DIVIGION OF
Departmentf State
JN(COMB.T)
subjees:
Learuitent - nilsted ernnel.
no
ro in hecy.
94-20
L. ura Loring of coneori tion  l:
The ar inister, wenerel -ugiy nn, in the -1et
Jamuary z9th, donied thot the present conscription age
would be lowered to 17 yeers.
trnslation uf is stato
mont follows:
"The presont coneoription ,ge (u yoara, not only
coineides with the uge of te attinent of anhood
fized by the civil oode of tnis o untry, but wae de
cided upon after cureful consider tio: of the physicr1
stemine of the averege o necri t and t e milit ry
duties required or the recruits.
894.20/20
"Volunteer solaier re enli sted fro: amons those
above i? yenrs or ng ; but in these csber, volunteers
who ere accepted heve exoeptionally stron paysiques
for tneir age. and their ccept nce ennnot te compored
to young men in oner 1. wrose phy tque is 8 win
redual degener tlon cspecinlly  recen yere.
-The army, t.erefore, 1e ne: constderin the lower
203
Ing or the coneoription ge. nd hs no intention to
lower it in the neer future, unless there shouid ap ear
some oztreordinory re son for doin so. hould such
poolal neoessity aris, w sheli docide  n the
question taking everythin inte conaiceration.
2. byical tandards:
The only chenge 1 p yeier1 et ndarde aline cenerally
to ell nsoripte  nee the tegii of t  oer tions in
Chine wee the recent a neunce et by er ffice -rolavoce
ho. 3 (ufriolal szette Jury 1 1or t recu tion in
the inimwa woisht reguired for enroll ent in the eotive
army from 63.25 k1logrs 1139.7625 10.1 to C3.20 11ogrems
(139.6720 1bs.) . few other unimport nt ehunee were made
in the phyeloel atonderas for ap licnts tor appointment es
probationery officers and for ed Ission ns codets in the
Tokyo Army ir chool.
FILED
3. :
 The rusored lowerine or the conseri tion age protly
oan be attributod, p rti liy at lenst, to re,orts th't
rom . Tokyo.
Report lio. 9232
Feb. 12, 1938
RESTRIO

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.88)
RESTRICTED
emigretion to kamehoukuo umder = joint plan of she war
and Cvesssss epertments. These youns men, whom the
press deseribed ns "farner-solaiers", are to be sent
to Memehoukue, and probably to North china, acoording
to è stetemeat of the ar Minister's in the -let,
after è period or "grieulsural and basic military
training in Japan. hen they reach the conseription
age Shey are to serve with units stntioned in lanehoukuo
following the eomplesion of whieh suey revert so sheir
status of reservists, but remoin in nnohoukuo.
 The mon peleeted for service in North hine during
The present operatione, were of ll clesses. The
Japanese mobilization inn cells for mervice by n
equitable proportlon of en from li clmseee in the
event of pertil obiliz tione suon es the. resent,
estimnted at bout 20 by this office. en of the
2d eserve and even the netionl arny reserve have
been assigned to puch sorvice which they ould per-
fom. The ruaor that the ar .frice wee ountemplating
lowering or the conscri;tion nge a eore to be with-
out foundetion us fir as unerul mervioe is conderned.
whother the proponed selootion or young wen of 17
yeare of ege for eventual service in annohouxuo or
North ohina will be on e vulunt ry or compulsory
besis has not yet boen deelded. The upe of the
milltary reeerve npower hes not even been consider-
ed und therefore o renl rouson exists for the fur-
ther lowering of physicnl st ndaras.
soureel frieial uzette.
*ress and as india ted in report.
vimtrlbutioni
0-2
N/
土
File
Johnockerling
Jeptein, infmtry,( ).
sst. llitsry tteene.
The Milita
Fokyo, Japan
To:
T1
Diviion
1. Appro
aor,tg nerml Stasf,
A..r Attache
From: /. Tokyo.
Aeport No. 9232
eb. 12, 1938
-2-
RESTRICTED

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/780
SEE
FORDespatch#2815
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATEDMarch18.1938
894.20/
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
204
mobilization Bill passed by apanese lHouse of Re resentatives on
March 16 without amendment; bill is now under consideration in
House of Peers, where it is expected to meet little real opposition.
204

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.90)
Ne. 8015.
rokyo, Mareu 1s. 1986
SUBJECTI
MOBILIZATION BILL.
The Homorable
The Seeretary of State,
Tashington.
8181
The mobilization bill wi iox was the sutjeet er
the Rmbassy's despetet 2800, m:reh 3, 1938 was passed by
the Japenese House or epresertatives on aro: 16 with-
out mendmont. The uill is now under oonsideratlon in
the Houme of Toers,whern it is expeoted to meet little
real eppesision.
Oppesitlom in the House of Hopresent atives was at
firat lond, but the pelitieiane lind to sive way in apite
of sheir blustering. The ooncesslons were mall and
lofs the bill unehanged. The Government in the sourse
of

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.88)
- 2 -
Gebete eseeptes an umderteking shas the aobilimatios
eommissien eutherised under artiele so to advise on
meesures so be taken in applying she ot will be com-
pesed in majority ef Diet members. This comritment
need nardly embarress the Government, ineamueh as the
semmisslon is edvlmory only, and the enti e Diet, in-
eluding the Peers, gives a wide ohoiee of appointment.
By way of fmoe-saving for the politlolans the Lower
Bouse conourrently adopted a rosolution urgine the
Govermment (1) to avoid remort to ordinancon for ostublish-
Ing regul tions onpable or ombodimont in laws for let
considoration, (s) to reform the oivil mervice, und (2)
to renovato diplomuoy.
hempootfully yours,
Jo.
800.Japan
0018
oigi-

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
ARTMENT OF STATE
ON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 21, 1938.
okyo's despatch no. 2849 of
31 encloses a condensed trans-
of a War Office pamphlet which,
its predecessors, has attracted
attention in Japan. The para-
on page 2 of the despatch gives
f summary.
1eld:HES

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
PARTMEN OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1938 APR 18 PM 1 33
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DIVISION OF
No. 2849
COMMUNICATIONS
Tokyo, Merch 31, 1938.
AND RECORDS
SUBJECT:
 OTO PAMPLLT.
894.20/205
ONI-MID
DT
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
8
on or
F EASTLAN AFFAINS
A
The Honorable
Secretary of Jtete
APR 28 1938
Jashington.
FILED F/WB
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit herewith the J
ADVERTISER's condensed translation of the propaganda
pamphlet recently put out by the Jepanese ar Office
in commemoration of the thirty-third anniversary of the
battle of Mukden. Previous similar War Office pamphlets
were enclosed with despatches 1466,September 7, 1935
894.20/177
and 2136, November 13, 1936.
Unlike

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
Unlike its predecessors, the present pamphlet has
attracted haraly any attention whatever. In the prevailing
temper of the public mind the doctrine of the military
is no longer cons icuous by reas n or contrast. h Japanese
spirit is clorified, the conmunist-su orted hinese National
Government is damned in perpetuity, a nev re ime in hina
is invited; Japen's strength is   lled, and Turther increuses
in armaments called for; coumunisu nd caitalisn are crouped
together as systems materiulistic, inaiviautlistic, and
chaotic; herculean effort still lies ahead before the Jhina
conflict can be brought to a satisfuctory conclusion; Jupan
aims to construct a civilization in castern sia baseu on
the moral ideas of the ast; the cause of the esnt hostilities
was China's underestimating of Ju an's stren th; in cconomic
development the fullest cooperation must be sou ht in a sin le
totalitarian unit embracin Ja n, Manchuria, and hina.
respectrully ours
Jose h . Grew
Enclosurds:
clippinc, "Strength of Japanese upire Held
Menaced by Conspiracy," JA.
ADVERISMR, March 2, 1938.
Clippinc, "Economic Collapse of Chiang ecarded
Mecessary for Japan," Ji
ADVERTISR, March 5, 1958.
800
CC:S
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1, to despatch
No. 2849, dated March31,1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Wednesday, March 2, 1938.
STRENGTH OF JAPANESE EMPIRE
HELD MENACED BY A CONSPIRACY
Japan Placed at a Disadvantage by Inroads of "Lax'
Thought From Occident is View of War Office
Following is the first part of a con-
Example of the Russo-Japanese War
densed translation from the pamphlet
"Can we win?" the pertinent ques-
issued by the War Office to com-
memorate the 33rd. anniversary of the
tion asked by Prince Hirobumi Ito,
Mukden victory. The second and con-
president of the Privy Council, of
cluding part will appear tomorrow.
Premier Katsura after the Imperial
conference had decided on the war
In the past eight months, since the
with Russia.
outbreak of the China Incident, the
"Figures are against us. We can
Japanese Expeditionary Army has
only fight by means of Yamato Da-
pushed its punitive campaign against
mashii (spirit)," Premier Katsura re-
plied. Prince Ito is then said to have
the anti-Japanese regime in China as*
stated with tragic determination, "Nei-
far as Nanking in order to induce the
ther the Army nor the Navy, nor our-
National Government to reconsider its
selves for that matter, have any sure
attitude. But not only has it refused.
prospect of success. But the situation
but has appointed Communist elements
is such that we must stake our na-
enemies of makind to important Gov-
tiona! fortunes and fight to a finish.
ernment and military positions as a
If that great army of Russia invades
means of befriending Soviet Russia.
Korea, Korea must become theirs. Our
Furthermore, in a fit of desperation,
Army is planning to check the ad-
t has adopted a policy of protracted
vance of the Russians in Korea, but
"arfare, a fight to a finish, on the
even in this we are not certain of suc-
strength of possible intervention or as-
cess. The fleet, to, may be sunk. No-
sistance from Britain and other Powers.
bedy is sure of "victory."
This has left Japan no choice but to
"If, therefore," continued Prince Ito.
declare that it wil! no longer have any
"the Japanese are defeated in Korea
dealings with the National Govern-
and the Russians should advançe on
ment, and to announce to the world
Japan, I shall emulate Hojo-Tokimune
its expectation of a new regime in
in the time of the Mongol invasion
China with which it will cooperate for
and join the Army as a private, mak-
the regulation of Sino-Japanese rela-
ing my wife cook for the commonest
tions and for the construction of a re-
soldier. We shall go to Kyushu or the
juvenated China.
Sanin district and defend the coast
It is with regret that Japan has
with what remains of the people so
come to such a decision, but the new
that not a Russian soldier shall set foot
turn the situation has taken, despite
on Japanese soil."
Japan's earnest efforts to prevent it,
General Kuroki, commander of the
is the only logical outcome of the var-
First Army, in his instructions prior to
ious forces at work.
departure, said:
The 33rd anniversary of the battle
"We the people of Yamato, are to go
of Mukden in which the Japanese
and fight the Slav race. This is a war
Army won its decisive virtory in the
of unprecedented significance and
Russo-Japanese War, prompts us to
splendor. All the world are watching
recall the great achievements and
and listening. Every deed counts."
hardships of our predecessors. We
In one of the instructions issued dur-
must be courageous in the fact of or-
ing the spirited engagement at
deal ahead of us, and not look with
Liaoyang, it was said:
dismay at the difficulties lying in the
"The first commander of the regiment
way of the heaven-sent tasks of the
has been killed, the one taking his
Empire. We must take courage in the
place wounded, his replacement also
ccnsciousness of living in this glorious
killed. We are to avenge our succes-
age of our Enlightened Emperor.
sive regimental commanders. The re-
Thirty-three years ago our forefath-
giment shall, therefore, gather under
ers faced exactly the same crisis as
the flag at.
the one now confronting us.
On October 24, 1905, Marshal Oyama,
Japan's Place Among Powers
commander of the Japanese Army in
The people behind the guns gave
Manchuria during the war, issued the
money and goods for national defence
following admonitions to his troops;
and for the relief of the soldiers, just
it is instructive even to us living a
as today. As the result of victory, Ja-
generation after:
pan won a place among the eight great
"Developments in the Far East here-
Powers of the world and laid the
after are likely to be watched with
foundation tor today's rise of fortune.
keener interest than ever before. In
It also took a first step toward the
order that Japan shall not forfeit the
liberation of Asia, so that in East Asia
glary won in the present campaign and
Japan's position became so powerful
that it shall increase its national pre-
that nothing could be done to which
atige and strength, adjustments and
this nation was not a party.
But since then, accompanying fluc-
tuations in the international picture,
nd to grow more important than
the situation in East Asia, too, has
become complex and manifold. Japan

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
had to face ineldent after incident un-
tl our friendly neighbor Manchukuo
On the other hand, the influence of
les acutely than a fully-developed
was born. Here hundreds of thousands
the Occidental Powers on the Far East
modern state would be, this, despite
of our fleah and blood had laid down
after the Great War created a new
the severity of its losses in both men.
their lives that we may live.
situation, and the lax Liberalistic and
and money. It is because of this cir-
With the Manchurian Incident as a
Democratic thought of the West took
cumstance that it can still plan long-
turning-point, Japan's international
hold of the Japanese people in all
term warfare with Japan, even after
position has grown more important
walks of life, and placed Japan at a
the loss of Nanking.
than ever, and the same incident has
serious disadvantage in the Washing-
finally resulted in the present up-
ton and the 9 Power negotiations.
Powers Supplying Arms
heaval.
Meanwhile the movement in China to
In addition, there are certain pow-
The national strength of Japan today,
revive national prestige by means of
ers, possessing important interests in
however, is vastly greater than it was
reliance on European and American
China, which are supplying arms, am-
at the time of the Russo-Japanese War.
powers, together with an anti-Japanese
munition and other war materials to
Faced with the comparatively weak
movement. was fostered by this ten-
China in order to safeguard their own
Chinese military strength, despite its
dency. There seemed to be a con-
foothold. And there are signs that
spiracy afoot to reduce the strength
they attempt to restrain rising Japan
enormous numerical superiority, the
of the Japanese Empire. Such a con-
by contriving to pro'ong the Sino-
spirit of the Japanese people has been
spirarcy is again in evidence at the
Japanese struggle.
such as to balance the scales. But if
present time.
Mankind has had enough of wars
the Far Eastern situation is closely
It is already well-known that the
and aspires after peace. Peace con-
examined, it will be found that its
activities of Soviet Russia behind the
ferences, the League of Nations, the
seriousness is no less pronounced than
scenes in China are an important fac-
Kellogg-Briand Anti-War pact, dis-
at the time of the struggle with Russia.
tor in this plot. The aims of Russia
armament conference, etc. have all
This is no time to rest satisfled with
are quite clear from its annexation of
been attempts at preventing the rav-
things as they are, it on the other
Outer Mongolia and Sinkiang, its Bo'-
ages of war. These, however, have
hand, the very moment in which we
shevist activities in China and Man-
failed to achieve their aims because
should look back on that desperate war
churia, and its provocative attitude
they have ignored the basic factors
and derive a lesson from it in indomit-
towards Japan, based on the strength
and underlying circumstances that
able spirit and perseverance.
of its enormous fighting machine
make for peace. They have been too
Urgency of the Emergency
massed near the Manchukuo border.
greatly concerned with the mainten-
These actions, together with large-
ance of merely external order. It is
The preparedness necessary to pro-
scale Far Eastern building the cxpan-
for this reason that Japan, in the light
secute the long-term warfare before us
sion of the communication system and
if international justice, withdrew from
need not be dwelt on, for it should
formatiin of an anti-Japanese People's
the League of Nations, while whole-
lie deep in the heart of every Japanese.
Front, constitute a serious stumbling
heartedly desiring to see peace est-
The new situation in the Empire to-
block in the way of Far Eastern peace.
ablished in the world.
day is the historical result of the
Moreover, Russia is now onomhisti
Matters having come to such a pass,
events of the past score or so years.
China in its prolonged resistance to
it would be unwise to strive for a
The wor!d after the Great War became
Japan in order to reduce the strength
make-shift peace in a mistaken con-
subject to the stirrings of a new order.
of an otherwise formidab'e enemy.
ception of the wor!d situation. Too
even before its wounds could be heal-
So the difficulties in the way of ter-
much eagerness to see the end of the
ed. This was manifested in the opposi-
rinating the China Incident have an
present affair would fail to achieve a
tion between ideologies, and the con-
historical and international bearing. A
radical solution of the difficulties con-
test between the forces of pro status
hereulean effort is required to sur-
fronting us. Determined and un-
quo, on the one hand, and anti status
mount them.
shaken in our fundamental convic-
gardless of doctrinal tendency, each
quo on the other. Then in time, Re-
Significance of Long-Term Warfare
necessary and make up our minds to
tions. we must take all precautions
power has striven to build up a strong
What is making the Nationa' Gov-
see through to the end this the long-
state, to increase armaments, and to
ernment so determined to fight Japan
term warfare, no matter how extended
strengthen national defence creating.
to the bitter end. Chiang Kai-shek.
it may prove to be.
in short a world situation similar to
who at a session of the National De-
that on the eve of the Great War.
fence Council once said that China is
(To Be Concluded)
Where the materialistic and indivi-
"fated to discord whenever it com-
dualistic ideology is frustrated, Com-
promises and to defeat whenever it
munistic agitation arises, or Capitalis-
fights"; he is how boasting that "long
tic aggression maintains the prevailing
resistance will result in ultimate vic-
chaos.
tory." pitiable bigotry that simply re-
Amid this world-wide chaos. Japan
fuse to understand Japan's true in-
has firmly and consistently walked the
tentions, and a conviction that resist-
path of justice in its efforts to achieve
ance against the lawless aggressor Ja-
its lofty mission, fighting every inch
pan will make for the protection of
of the way. The causes that had given
China's independence and the con-
rise to the world-wide conflict neces-
tinuance of internatioal justice is the
sarily spread to the Far East, and the
motivating clement.
Far Eastern situation now is even more
Such a conception. on the part of
acute than is the European. The Chin
China, can only be aseribed to self-
upheaval was the logical consequence
created bogies begotten of the shadow
of such international evils.
of past European aggressions. Mean-
The history of the predatory Far
while China seems to be utterly ob-
Eastern policy of the Occidenta! Pow-
livious to the fact that ideological and
ers is lengthy. In the Sino-Japanese
economic aggression of recent year
War, the easy victory of Japan over
has caten deeply into the very fabric
this vast country at once brought Ja-
of the nation.
pan to world recognition and betrayed
It is to awaken China from this evil
the weakness of China to the world.
dream and to set it back on the right
This had the effect of argumenting
course that Japan is fighting the Na-
Bolshevization and exploitation of
tional Government. and in this lies
China by the powers.
the solemn mission of Japan itself. The
prevailing circumstances in China.
Russian Aggression Halted
however, are making it difficult to
The Russo-Japanese War halted the
achieve this awakening.
Russian hand of aggression in China
Up to the present time, North China
and sèrved a solemn warning to other
and the Kiangnan area as far as Nan-
powers to pause in their predatory
king have fa'len into Japanese hands.
but these areas together make up only
Far Eastern policy.
a section of the vast Chinese territory
sti'l under the away of the National
Government. With its enormous po-
pulation and a country many times
larger than Japan's, China, not being
a modern state, seems to be suffering

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2, to despatch
No. 2849, dated March 311938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Thursday, March 3, 1938.
ECONOMIC COLLAPSE OF CHIANG
REGARDED NECESSARY FOR JAPAN
War Office Pamphlet Outlines Five Point Program
for Building Foundation of Peace in East Asia
Following is the second and con-
means should be adopted for bringing
cluding part of a condensed transla-
about the economic collapse of the
tion from the pamphlet issued by the
Chiang Kai-shek regime, making it
War Office to commemorate the 33rd
inevitable for foreign Powers to co-
anniversary of the battle of Mukden in
operate with Japan economically.
the Russo-Japanese War. The first
part appeared on this page yesterday.
3. Ideological Policy—The lofty aims
of the Empire in prosecuting the war-
The object of long-term warfare now
fare with China must be made manifest,
that we have entered the second phase
and a true national unanimity must be
of the China hostilitles is no longer
mobilization movement forms the back-
obtained.
The national spiritual
mere armed chastisement of the anti-
bone of exertions to consolidate the
Japanese regime; nor is it to induce
people in both high places and low to
the National Government, at this
a settlement of the China Incident, at
juncture, to reflect and reconsider its
any sacrifice. Compensations to killed
and wounded, and to their families,
attitude.
as much as the State can afford are
The object of the Empire in pro-
also important factors in building up
ceeding with this costly task is to con-
an ideolcgical armament. By means
struct a civilization in East Asia found-
of such spiritual union among the
ed on the moral ideals of the East.
people, anti-Japanese, anti-Manchukuo
As has often been stated by the Ja-
and Bolshev:stic fronts, which destroy
panese Government, the Empire has
all morals and trample peace under-
no territorial ambitions; its only de-
foot, must be crushed.
sire is to co-operate with a new re-
Elimination of Utilitarian Attitudes
gime for the reconstruction and re-
4. Political Warfare—All utilitarian
juvenation of China, so that eternal
attitudes towards China, where inter-
peace may be brought to East Asia.
national politics cross each other and
Following is the manifold policy the
are creating a delicate and complex
Empire must puersue in order to
situation. must be climinated and the
establish a solid and unshakable
just claims of the Empire pursued.
foundation for eternal peace in East
Asia:
Japan must help the establishment and
development of the new regime and
A Manifold Policy
continue its relentless punitive cam-
1. Strategic Policy—Military and
paign against the anti-Japanese govern-
naval excellence constitutes the uncleus
ment, ousting Red influence and break-
of all war plans. Inadequacy of
ing the resistance to race and custom,
armament entails weaknesses in all
the new regime will assist in restoring
phases of warfare and makes solution
China to a unified state as quickly
of the present affair difficult. For it is
as possible.
a well-known fact that the immediate
Having undertaken such a task in
cause of the China Incident was China's
Sino-Japanese relations, the conception
under-estimation of the armed strength
of Japan as a victor nation must be
of Japan. It was fortunate that the
forgotten by the people in order that
test of this armed strength came in the
real co-operation shall be secured. The
form of warfare with a nation com-
Japanese people, when the time comes,
paratively weak. Suppose it to have
should show the magnanimity and
been one of the great European or
sincerity proper to a great people, so
American Powers, or Soviet Russia, and
that the Chinese masses may be aided,
we realize how easential it is to be
and turned into a good neighbor.
fully armed. To increase and streng-
5. Diplomatic Policy—The National
then the mechanized units, therefore,
Government, which sees in a long-
is especially important. Industrial
term warfare the sole means of national
development and the acquisition of
salvation, is depending heavily on
meterial resources is also of outstanding
Soviet Russia, and appealing to Britain,
importance.
France and other Powers for assistance
2 Economic Policy-In order to con-
in order to restore its anti-Japanese
centrate materials and funds as much
fighting strength and financial re-
as possible on armament so as to enable
sources. In such a complex and de-
the nation to be prepared for pro-
licate situation, diplomacy encounters
donged hostilities, the industrial pro.
the greatest difficulties. Especially is
this the case in view of the enlivened
activities of the Communist Party: it
is taking advantage of the defeat of
China and making contact with Soviet
Russia behind the sosnes.
The joining of Italy in the German

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
2
tributions in cash, smes,cas coadort
etor in the solution
From this experience, we should
derive the lesson that inadequacy of
must, therefore, uphold
armament makes for prolonged warfare.
after seven years working as a poos
Comintern front against the
On the other hand, if we have adequate
dealer in children's sweets, and the ex
armament and perfect national mobili-
tra wages obtained by a poor labores
zation, it may happen that we shall
working overtime for the purpose. It
gonder an understanding among
be able to subdue the enemy without
is by such manifestation of the spirit
European and American powers of the
fighting and achieve our national aims
of service behind the guns that the
true intentions of Japan, cultivating
without sacrifice.Thus adequate
soldiers leaving for the front are in-
the good-will of all friendly nations
armament becomes the most powerful
spired to say: "Gladly will I die for
and striving to maintain true interna-
prop for peaceful diplomacy and eco-
my country."
tional justice.
nomy.
In brief the outbreak of the China
The great task of organizing new
The ideal of the Empire is to pursue
Incident appears as a most unfortunate
armies and replenishing the armament
its moral policy on the basis of such
upheaval. but the fact is that it should
consumed in the hostilities to date by
material strength. Only on the grounds
be regarded as a great ordeal through
drafting men and horses, adjusting
of justice supported by armed strength
which Japan had been destined to pas
equipment, collecting war materials and
can the Sino-Japanese or Far Eastern
in order that it may sweep away the
defraying war expenses, must all be
problems be solved.
accumulated evils of long years, rec-
undertaken by wartime emergency
National General Mobilization
tify Sino-Japanese relations and wel-
to complete its preparations for waging
measures. Since the European and
American powers are hastening to build
up their own armaments on a large
scale, Japan must make every effort
peror and service to the fatherland,
spiritual general mobilization lie in
traditional spirit of loyalty to the Em-
the heightening and quickening of the
The root principles of national
as the inevitable tempering process
which the nation was bound to undergo
on its grand march towards achieve-
coming the birth of a brighter and
happier Asia. It should be regarded
prolonged hostilities so as not to be
based on the sublime national policy
ment in the holy task of world peace.
subject to menace of any kind. The
and its manifesting in daily life and
The preparedness of the people to
intportance of adequate armament was
face long-term warfare will be streng-
most painfully illustrated in the Russo-
Japanese War.
In the great battle near Liaoyang,
meant the supreme heightening and
industry.
By national general mobilization is
convictions. The key to the solution of
the China incident lies in such nation-
thened by such glorious and unshakable
only seven months after the commence-
accompanied by control and regula-
quickening of national spirit and morale
ally-unanimous action.
had already begun to suffer a scarcity
ment of the war, the Japanese forces
tion of all the available man-power.
of ammumition, and the officers and
materials and tangible and intangible
men at the front on many occasions
resources of the nation and complete
could not follow up obvious advantages
coverage of strategic requirements, in
short, of all enterprises bent on the
to their bitter exasperation.
achievement of victory while guarantee-
A dispatch from General Kodama,
ing the existence of the nation and the
chief of staff of the Japanese Army
livelihood of the people. The absolute
in Manchuria, to Marshal Yamagata,
loyalty and patriotism of the Japanese
Chief of the General Staff, dated Oct-
fighting men on the field must be
ober 19, 1904, tells the story:
paralleled by the supreme moral action
"Today the enemy is trying to re-
of the people behind the lines, offering
arrange its disordered ranks on the op-
both their heart and their goods to
posite bank of the Hun-ho. This is
the state. In spirit it is service and
therefore the best opportunity for us
confidence, and in action it is the cry-
to make a surprise attack, especially
stallization and organization of the total
both our strength and morale are
national strength.
just now superior to the enemy's. But
To die for the sake of the Emperor
we are prevented from making the
and the fatherland is to live forever.
attack on account of the poor supply
To die, moreover, in participation in
of ammunition. At present we are ex-
the supreme holy enterprise of man-
changing fire with the enemy at 300—
kind oust be the greatest glory and the
3000 meters day and night. We have
height of exultation. Where there is
several times heard cries of night at-
this conviction, every resistance or
täcks. But we can only strengthen de-
obstacle is as if it does not exist. In
fance and await the arrival of
that exultation lies the possibility of
ammuniton from the rear. I greatly
bringing to realization eternal peace
regret such a state of affairs."
in the Far East and the construction
The Imperial Headquarters, had been
of a paradise of mankind. Such is the
making definite plans in view of the
soul of the Japanese soldier.
importance of the Liaoyang front, but
The people behind the guns, on their
part, must feel with those at the front.
Some soldiers have written to their
wives and children: "If you wish to
see me come to Yasukuni Shrine," or
on the battlefleld have promised their
ng manufacturing capacity, laying
comrades to "meet again at Yasukuni
th foreign firms, etc. But
d to report it is impossible
padant supply at once. At
of heroes enshrined at Kudan. If the
Shrine"—that is, as disembodied souls
people behind the guns felt as do those
at the front and dedicated themselves
to expense and none of
to the cause of the nation in the same
way as the soldiers giving their lives
for the Emperor and fatherland, there
we do now at a moment's
is nothing that the nation may not
achieve.
ly regret that
causs you to
Support Behind the Lines
During the six months since the out-
byeak of the China Incident the people

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE 894.202/1
FOR
Despatch.#-to.Embass y, Japan
894.20/206
FROM ...Taihoku.
(..)Warner.....) DATED.)March...28,1938.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Japanese military activities: Report on formation of
spy prevention societies to "educate" the Taiwan
public concerning the presence of spies in their
midst, the main target of these societies is suspicious
Chinese. Also report on formation of compulsory training
groups of Formosan Chinese adults.
aa
894.2
0

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 10, 1938.
Reforence: Tokyo's 2871
Subject:
National General
Mobilization Law
The despatch under reference
transmits the text of the National
General Mobilization Law which,
though useful for the files, need
not be read.
Ind
FE:Jones:HES

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1938 MAY 2 PM 2 28
No. 2871.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DIVISION OF
Tokyo, April 11, 1938.
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
SUBJECT: NATIONAL GENERAL MOBILIZATION LAW.
ON1
m/D
Copyin T
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
EPARTMENT OE ST
894.20/207
OF STATE
A-M/C
the
DT
894.2
The Honbrable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
In reference to despatch 2800, arch 3, 1938, I
1/
have the honor to transmit herewith the Embassy's trans-
lation of the text of the general mobilization law as
finally passed and promulgated.
Respectfully yours,
900.77
MAY 2 4 1938
Enclosure:
Joseph C. Grew.
FILED
Translation of National General
Mobilization Law, being Law 55 of 1938 promulgated
March 31, 1938, and published in the official
F/A
gazette of the Japanese Government, issue of April 1,
1938.
800.
MWS:s:r

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 2871
dated April 11, 1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
We grant Imperial sanction to, and hereby order to be
promulgated, the National General Mobilization Law which
has received the concurrence of the Imperial Diet.
Imperial Sign Manual and Privy Seal.
March 31, 1938 (13th year of Showa).
Prince Fumimaro Konoe
Prime Minister
Koki Hirota
Minister for Foreign Affairs
Terumasa Yonai
Minister or the Navy
Suehiko Shiono
Minister of Justice
Gen Sugiyama
Minister of War
Ryutaro Nagai
Minister of Communications
Okinobu Kaya
Minister of Finance
Count Yoriyasu Arima
Minister of Agricultrue and Forestry
Nobutsugu Yoshino
Minister of Commerce and Industry
Chikuhei Nakajima
Minister of Railways
Sonyu Otani
Minister of Overseas Affairs
Marquis Koichi Kido
Minister of Education
Minister of Welfare
Nobumasa Suetsugu
Minister of Home Affairs
Law No. 55
NATIONAL GENERAL MOBILIZATION LAW
Article 1.
National General Mobilization under this law shall be
the control and utilization of personal and material resources
in

=== Page 225 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
in time of war (including incidents similar to war;
hereafter considered the same) in such a manner as to most
effectively display the entire strength of the nation for
the realization of the mission of national defense.
Article 2.
Under this law, materials for general mobilization shall
be the following:
1. Arms, warships, ammunition and other military
materials.
2. Clothing, foodstuffs, beverages, and animal
feeds necessary to national general mobilization.
3. Medicines, medical instruments and apparatus,
and other hygenic materials including hygenic
supplies for domestic animals, which are
necessary to national general mobilization.
4. Vessels, aircraft, rolling stock, horses and
other transportation facilities which are
necessary to national general mobilization.
Communication facilities which are necessary
to national general mobilization.
Materials for civil engineering and building
purposes, and materials for lighting purposes
which are necessary to national general
mobilization.
7. Fuel and electric power necessary to national
general mobilization.
8.
Equipment, machine tools, machines, raw materials,
materials and other articles necessary for the
production, repair, distribution, or preservation
of the articles mentioned in each of the foregoing
paragraphs.
9.
Materials other than those mentioned in each of
the foregoing paragraphs which are necessary to
national general mobilization and are so
designated by an Imperial ordinance.
Article 3.
General mobilization enterprises under this law shall
be the following:
1. Enterprises relating to the production, repair,
distribution, import, export, or storage of
general

=== Page 226 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
general mobilization materials.
2.
Enterprises relating to transportation
or communication necessary to national
general mobilization.
3.
Enterprises relating to financial operations
necessary to netional general mobilization.
4.
Enterprises relating to general hygiene,
domestic animal hygiene, or relief necessary
to national general mobilization.
5.
Enterprises relating to education and
training necessary to national general
mobilization.
6.
Enterprises relating to inquiry and research
necessary to national general mobilization.
7.
Enterprises relatin& to information or
education and propaganda necessary to national
general mobilization.
8.
Enterprises relating to the policing necessary
to national general mobilization.
9.
Enterprises other than those mentioned in
each of the foregoing paragraphs which
are necessary to national general mobilization
and are so designated by an Imperiel ordinance,
Article 4.
In time of war when it is necessary to national
general mobilization, the Government may in accordance
with the provisions of an Imperial ordinance draft Imperial
subjects or may cause them to engage in general mobilization
enterprises. Application of the Conscription Law however,
shall not be interferred with.
Article 5.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may, in accordance with the
provisions of an Imperial ordinance, cause Imperial subjeots,
juridical persons and other bodies to cooperate with the
carrying out of general mobilization enterprises of national
or

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
or looal public bodies.
Article 6.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may, in accordance with the
provisions of an Imperial ordinance, give necessary orders
concerning the use, employment, dismissal, or wages of
employees and other labor terms.
Article 7.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may in accordance with the
provisions of an Imperial ordinance issue necessary orders
for the prevention or settlement of labor disputes and may
restrict or prohibit actions in regard to the closing of
plants, the stopping of production or labor enterprises, and
in other labor disputes.
Article 8.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may, in accordance with the
provisions of an Imperial ordinance, issue necessary orders
for the production, repair, distribution, transfer and other
disposition, use, consumption, possession, and moving of
general mobilization materials.
Article 9.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization the Government may, in accordance with the
provisions of an Imperial ordinance, prohibit or limit exports
or imports, order exports or imports, allocate export or
import tariffs, or decrease or increase export or import
tariffs.
Article 10.

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Article 10.
In time of war when it is necessary to national
general mobilization, the Government may, in accordance
with the provisions of an Imperial ordinance, use or
expropriate general mobilization materials.
Article ll.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may, in accordance with the
provisions of an Imperial ordinance, prohibit or restrict
the esteblishment of companies, the increase of capital
funds, amalgamation of companies, changing the objective
of companies, flotation of debentures, calling in of seoond
or subsequent payments of unpaid capital funds; may give
necessary orders for the disposal of company profits, sinking
funds, and for other administrative affairs; may give necessary
orders for the use of capital funds by banks, trust companies,
insurance companies and others designated by the Imperial
ordinance.
Article 12.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may provide special regulations
by Imperial ordinance concerning the increase of capitalization,
or flotation of debentures to collect funds for the proper
equipment for companies which manage general mobilization
enterprises, notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 200
and 2lo of the Commercial Code.
Article 13.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may, in accordance with the
progisions of an Imperial ordinance, take charge of, use, or
expropriate all or any part of factories, working plants, boats
and

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
d other facilities belonging to general mobilization
business enterprises or facilities capable of being converted
to suoh use.
In using or expropriating the facilities mentioned in
the foregoing paragraph, the Government may, in accordance
with the provisions of an Imperial ordinance, cause those
employees to be made available and used or may in regard to
the said facilities utilize patented inventions already in
operation, or put into use registered utility models.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may, in accordance with the
provisions of an Imperial ordinance, take charge of, use, or
expropriate land, houses and other working facilities which
are necessary to general mobilization enterprises.
Article 14.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may, in accordance with the
provisions of an Imperial ordinance, use or expropriate mining
rights, sand mining rights, and rights concerning the use of
water.
Article 15.
When that which was expropriated according to the
provisions of the two preceding articles becomes of no further
use, and when it is sold by the Government within ten years
after the time it was expropriated, the former owners, or holders
of rights, or their successors may have, according to the provis-
ions of an Imperial ordinance, a preferential right to repurchase.
Artiole 16.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may, according to the provisions of
an

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
an Imperial ordinance, prohibit or restrict the new establishment,
expansion or improvement of the facilities of enterprises,
and may order the new establishment, expansion, or improvement
of the facilities of general mobilization enterprises.
Article 17.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may, in accordance with the
provisions of an Imperial ordinance, require the owners of
enterprises of the same type as, or different from, general
mobilization enterprises to obtain permission to establish,
change, or abolish control agreements of such enterprises;
order the establishment, change, or abolishment of controlling
agreements; may order enterprise owners participating or not
participating in control agreements to abide by the agreements.
Article 18.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may, according to the provisions
of an Imperial ordinance, order the owners of enterprises of the
same type as, or different from, general mobilization enter-
prises to form guilds for the purpose of controllin; those
enterprises.
The above mentioned guilds shall be juridical persons.
When those who have been ordered to form the organizations
mentioned in the first paragraph do not do so, the Government
may draw up the articles of organization and take other
measures necessary for the esteblishing of the organization.
When the guilds mentioned in paragraph one have been
established, the Government may, according to the terms of an
Imperial ordinance require those who possess the qualifications
necessary for membership in the guilds to become members of
the guilds.
The

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
The Government may require the guilds mentioned in
paragraph one to obtain permission for the establishment,
change or disolvement of control regulations concerning
the business administration of the guilds; may order the
establishment or change of control regulations; may order
members of the guilds to conform to the control regulations.
Necessary items concernin: the guilds mentioned in
paragraph one shall be determined by an Imperial ordinance.
Article 19.
In time of war when it is necessary to national general
mobilization, the Government may, in accoriance with the terms
of an Imperial ordinance, issue necessary orders in regard to
prices, transportation costs, insurance rates, storage costs,
lease charges, and manufacturing costs.
Article 20.
In time of war when it is necessary to national'general
mobilization, the Government may, in accordance with the provisions
of an Imperial ordinance, prohibit or restrict the items which
are to be printed in newspapers or other publications.
When newspapers or other publications disobey the restrict-
ions or prohibitions mentioned in paragraph one, the Government
may seize, or prohibit the sale and distribution of articles
harmful to national general mobilization. In such instances
the original forms also may be seized.
Artiole 2l.
When it is necessary to national general mobilization,
the Government may, in accordance with the provisions of
an Imperial ordinance, require Imperial subjects or those
employing Imperial subjects to report items concerning the
vocational abilities of Imperial subjects; and may undertake
a canvass of the vocational abilities of subjects of the Empire.
Artiole 22.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Article 22.
When it is necessary to national general mobilization,
the Government may, in accordance with the provisions of
an Imperial ordinance, issue necessary orders regarding the
training of technicians who are necessary to national general
mobilization to the employers of persons who should be trained,
to schools, training places, factories, workshops, and managers
of other facilities suitable for training technicians.
Article 23.
When it is necessary to national general mobilization,
the Government may, in accordance with the provisions of an
Imperial ordinance, require those whose business is the pro-
duction, sale or importation of general mobilization materials
to store a fixed quantity of those materials, their raw material
or materials from which they are manufactured.
Article 24.
When it is necessary to national general mobilization,
the Government may, in accordance with the provisions of an
Imperial ordinance, require the owners of general mobilization
enterprises, or those who in time of war are to be required
to operate general mobilization enterprises to establish programs
for general mobilization enterprises to be carried out in time
of war; and may require necessary drills based upon the said
programs.
Article 25.
When it is necessary to national general mobilization,
the Government may, in acoordance with the provisions of an
Imperial ordinance, order those who are engaged in the produo-
tion or repair of general mobilization materials, or those who
manage experimental and research establishments, to conduct
researoh and experiments.
Article 26.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
Article 26.
When it is necessary to national general mobilization,
the Government may, in accordance with the provisions of an
Imperial ordinance, guarantee, within the budget, a fixed
profit to those whose business is the production or repair of
national general mobilization materials, and may grant a subsidy.
In such an instance the Government may require such persons
to produce or repair general mobilization materials, and may
require them to establish the facilities necessary to
national general mobilization.
Article 27.
In accordance with the provisions of an Imperial ordinance,
the Government shall compensate for the losses arising from
the dispositions made in accordance with the provisions of
articles 8, 10, 13, or 14, from the orders for exportation
or importation based upon the progisions of article 9, from
orders for the purchase, acceptance, or flotation of debentures,
or for finanoing of capital funds, based upon the stipulations
of article 1l, or from orders issued according to the provisions
of article l6 for the new establishment, expansion, or improvement
of equipment.
Article 28.
The Government shall, when issuing orders based upon the
provisions of article 22, 23 or 25, compensate for losses
arising therefrom or grant subsidies in accordance with an
Imperial ordinance.
Article 29.
The amount of compensation stipulated by the two previous
artioles and the amount to be received for the government property
sold according to the provisions of article 15 after receiving
the

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
the doliberations of the General Mobilization Commission shall
be determined by the Government.
Regulations concerning the General Mobilization Commission,
shall be determined by an Imperial ordinance.
Article 30.
The Government shall supervise those enterprises which
under the provisions of article 26 or 28 receive subsidies
or profit guarantees, and to accomplish this purpose, may issue
necessary orders or take necessary measures.
Article 31.
When it is necessary to national general mobilization, the
Government, may, in accordance with the provisions of an Imperial
ordinance, require reports or the inspection of important
places by competent Government officials to examine the business
condition, the accounts or other matters.
Article 32.
Those who, in contravention to the orders issued under the
provisions of article 9, import or export or attempt to import
or export shall be imprisoned with hard labor for not more than
three years or shall be fined not more than ¥lo,ooo.
In the instance mentioned in the foregoing paragraph,
the goods whioh were exported or imported or were the object of
an attempt to export or import and are in the possession of the
criminal or belong to the criminal may be confiscated. If all
or any part of the goods involved can not be confisoated, the
equivalent value may be recovered.
Article 33.
Any person whose offense falls under any one of the
following shall be imprisoned with hard labor for not more than
three

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
three years or fined not more than five thousand yen:
1. Those violating orders, restrictions or prohi-
bitions issued in accordance with the provisions
of article 7.
2. Those violating the orders issued in accordance
with the provisions of article 8.
3.
Those who in violation of the orders issued in
accordance with the provisions of article 9 do
not export or do not import.
4.
Those who refuse, hinder or try to avoid the
expropriation or use of general mobilization goods
as provided for in article 10.
5.
Those who refuse, hinder or try to avoid the
control, use, or expropriation of facilities,
land, or manufactured articles, or the supplying
and use of laborers as povided for in the
provisions of article 13.
Those who violate the orders issued in accordance
with the provisions of article 19.
Article 34.
Those whose offense falls under any one of the following
shall be imprisoned for two years with hard labor or fined
not more than three thousand yen:
1. Those who violate the orders, prohibitions
or restrictions issued in accordance with the
provisions of article ll.
2.
Those who violate the orders, prohibitions,
or restrictions issued in accordance with the
provisions of article 16.
3.
Those who in violation of the regulations of
article 17 or those of paragraph five of article
18 abolish, change or establish control regulations
or control agreements without obtaining permission;
or those who violate the orders issued in acoordance
with the provisions of Article 17 or paragraph
5 of article 18.
4.
Those who violate the orders issued in accordance
with the provisions of article 23 and do not store.
Those who in violation of the regulations of
article 26 do not produce, repair or establish
facilities.
Article 35.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 1.00)
-13-
Article 35.
Depending upon the circumstances, those who are guilty
of the crimes mentioned in the foregoing three articles may
be punished with both prison terms with hard labor and fines.
Article 36.
Those whose offense falls under any one of the following
shall be imprisoned with hard labor for not more than one
year or fined not more than one thousand yens
1. Those who do not com ly with the drafting
in accordance with the provisions of article
4, or those who do not engage in business
according to the regulations of the same
article.
2.
Those who violate orders issued in accoruance
with the provisions of article 6.
Article 37.
Those whose offense falls under any one of the
following shall be fined not more than three thousand yen:
1. Those who violate the orders issued in
accordance with the provisions of article 22.
2.
Those who, in violation of the orders issued
in accordance with the provisions of article
24, do not establish programs or do not carry
out drills.
3. Those who in violation of the orders issued in
accordance with the provisions of article 25,
do not conduct experiments and research.
Article 38.
Those whose offense falls under any one of the following
shall be fined not more than one thousand yen:
1. Those who in violation of the orders issued
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
one of article 18 do not establish guilds.
2.
Those who violate the orders given and the
dispositions made in accordance with the
provisions of article 30.
3.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
3. Those neglecting to report or making false
reports in accordance with the provisions
of article 31.
Article 39.
When there is a violation of the prohibitions or
restrictions issued in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph one of article 20, in the instance of a
newspaper, the editor and the publisher, and in the
instance of other publications, the author and the pub-
lisher, shall be imprisoned with hard labor for not more
than two years, or imprisoned for not more than two years,
or fined not more than two thousand yen.
In the case of a newspaper in addition to the editor,
the person actually responsible for the editing and the person
who signs the article printed shall also be subject to the
provisions of the foregoing paragraph.
Article 40.
Those who hinder the carrying out of the seizures
ordered made in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
two of article 20 shall be imprisoned with hard labor for
not more than six months, or imprisoned for not more than six
months, or fined not more than five hundred yen.
Article 41.
The combined offense provision of the Criminal Code shall
not apply to offenses listed in the roregoing two articles.
Article 42.
Those who refuse, hinder or attempt to avoid inspections
by competent government officials as provided for in the pro-
visions of Artiole 31 shall be imprisoned with hard labor for
not more than six months, or fined not more than ¥5o0.
Article 43.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
Article 43.
Those who in violation of the provisions of article 2l
neglect to submit reports or refuse, hinder or try to avoid
the canvass shall be fined not more than fifty yen, or detained,
or given small fines (¥.10 to ¥20.00).
Article 44.
Those who, engaged in general mobilization enterprises
and having knowledge of the accomplishments of those enterprises,
divulge or steal the secrets of the Government offices concerned
with general mobilization enterprises which have been so
designated by the competent Government office, shall be imprisoned
with hard lebor for not more than two years or fined not more
than two thousand yen.
Public officials or former public officials having obtained
official information who divulge or steal the secrets of
Government offices concerned with general mobilization enterprises
which have been so designated by the competent Government office
shall be imprisoned with hard labor for not more than five years.
Article 45.
Public officials or former public officials who in the
carrying out of their official duties in accordance with the
provisions of this law have gained information concerning the
business secrets of individuals of juridical persons and
who steal or divulge those secrets shall be imprisoned with
hard labor for not more than two years or fined not more than
two thousand yen.
Article 46.
When bribes in connection with the duties of officials
of the guilds which were established in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph one or three of article 18 have been
received, promised, or demanded,it shall be punished by
imprisonment

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
imprisonment with hard labor for not more than two years.
When because of these bribes improper acts are performed
or proper acts are not performed the punishment shall be
imprisonment with hard labor for not more than five years.
In the instance of the above paragraph, the bribe
Beceived shall be confiscated. If all or any part of the
bribe can not be confiscated that amount in addition
shall be recovered.
Article 47.
Those who have given, proposed or promised bribes to
those mentioned in the first paragraph of the preceeding
article shall be imprisoned with had labor for not more
than two years or fined not more than ¥5o0.
Persons guilty of the crime mentioned in the above
article who surrender themselves to the police may have their
punishments lightened or suspended.
Article 48.
When representatives of juridical persons, or legal
agents of juridical persons or individuals, employees or
other members of the organization in relation to the
business affairs of that individual or juridical person
commit acts in violation of articles 32 through 34 inclusive,
number 2 of article 36, article 37, article 38, or the first
part of article 43, in addition to punishing the person who
committed the act, the juridical person or the individual
shall be fined the amount stipulated in each article concerned,
either major or minor fines.
Article 49.
The provisions or the foregoing article shall apply to
the acts committed in territories where this law is not in
force by representatives, legal agents, employees, and other
workers,

=== Page 240 === (confidence 1.00)
-17-
workers, of juridical persons whose main office or office of
ownership is located in territories where this law is enforced.
This also applies in the same manner to the acts committed
in territories where this law is not in force by the legal
agents, employees, or other workers, of private individuals
whose domicile is located in territories where this law is
enforced.
The punitive provisions of this law shall also apply to
Japanese subjects who have conmitted offenses in territories
where this law is not in force.
Article 50.
There shall be established a National General Mobilization
Deliberative Cormission for the purpose of replying to the
inquiries of the Government concerning important items (excepting
those relating to military secrets) regarding the enforcement
of this law.
Stipulations for the National General Mobilization Delibera-
tive Commission shall be determined by an Imperial ordinance.
Supplementary Regulations.
The date of the enforcing of this law shell be determined
by an Imperial ordinance.
The Military Munitions Industry Mobilization Law and Law
No. 88 of 1937 (12th year of Showa) are rescinded.
Orders given and dispositions made in accordance with the
Military Munitions Industry Mobilization Law before this law is
enforced shall be considered as being in accordance with the
corresponding stipulations of this law.
Punishment of violators of the Military Munitions Industry
Mobilization Law shall be in accordance with the provisions of
the former law.
Note:

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
Note:
Excerpts from the Commercial Code, Law No. 48, March 9,
1899.
Article 200.
The total amount of debentures may excled the amount of
capital funds.
When, acoording to the last balance sheet, the actual
property of a company is equal to the funds mentioned
in the foregoing paragraph, the total amount of company
debentures may exceed that amount of property.
Article 210.
If all of the capital funds of a company have not been
paid up, the amount may be increased.
Law No. 88, promulgated September 10, 1937 was a law concerning
the application of the ilitary Munitions Industry
Mobilization Law.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.91)
Divioi
ISTRICTED
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
MAY 28193
REPORT
RECEIVED
LE PARTMENT OF STATE
8000
Department of Stale
1931
INTEL. DIV
2023-817
sub jeot ug ho la liational f
UMMUNICATIONS
a
AND RE
General keto Nakamura.
1. 1809 (△pr11 11)
) born in lokyo :refecture.
1910
Gradunted from 1litary Acedomy
(22nd gredu tins clnss)
2nd .ieut., luf ntry.
1913
lst .iut., .nf ntry.
1920
to, rontry.
1921
wraduatad fron the rmy tafr
college wit honor.
1925
ujur, Infontry.
rdered to -er any for atudy of
ilit ry arfais.
894.20/209
1920
tl enec to rtioe of nspector
eral or 1litar freiuing.
1920
-rcut-colonel, nf ntry.
.ttnclec t srd ni ntr. egi ent
of i peril uunree.
1930 (1)
6
tt  to t ry ontrelrdnano
sepot nd nolain conourrently a post
in the ilitary f irs bureau, ar
epart ent.
1931 (.ug. 1)
n the stair of the ilitary ffairs
pur au. or epartment.
1932 (June 9)
i1 tary in tructor at the my colle
1933
colonel, inf ntry.
1955 (Aug. 1)
hlef eward ection,  ersonnt
ourenu, ar eart ent.
1936
Comander 24th r ntry egiment.
1937 (ug. 2)
ajor-Generol.
F/FG
From: /. Tokyo.
Report o. 9382
April 20, 1938
RESTRICTED

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.92)
RESTRICTED
1989
rdered duty in anohukuo and
stationed at Lishuohen.
1988 (Apr11 14)
Director Military .ffaire Lureau.
ar Depertment.
court rank: Junior grade of 5th
Court Rank.
nighest decorotion: 3rd urder
of Rising un.
2. General Nakammre, as thc above record shows,
has held e suceession of Importent posts in the army
amd mis seleetion to replace General vchijiri as
Direetor or the importent Military .ffairs Luroau is
looked upon by many Japanese cfficers as a logionl
ehoiee.
3. Gonerel Nakamure 1s not known for any  articular
speeialty other than a consistentiy good record. hile
in  anohurio he ocoupied the extr -duty positlon of
hoed of the omen's atlonal efense ssooiation.
.ouroe: xress.
rmy list.
-fricial azette
Uistribution:
arry i. -reawell,
A.C.of S.. 2
ajor, ctg. venerel taff.
N/八
1l1t ry ttaohe.
rile
from: M/A. Tokyo.
Report No. 9342
April 80, 1938
- 2 -
èSPRICTED

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.90)
CHARGE SLIP
MNo. 894, 20
CHARGE TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
Remarks
EL-VanOss
10-12-40+G.

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.92)
STRICTED
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
MAY 28193
LPURT
REGEIVED
8000
LE PARTMENT OF STATE
Department of State
1938
INTEL. DIV
82023-817
WAR DEPART
subjeotoho ia liational f
UMMUNICATIONS
a
AND RE
r-Genaral  keto Nakamara.
08
1. 1800 (Apri1 11) Born in 1okyo 1refooture.
1910
Gradunted from ilitary Aoedomy
(22nd gredu tins clnss)
2nd ..ieut., luf ntry.
1913
lst .iout., .nf ntry.
1920
tot,nrontry.
1921
uraduatad from the rmy tefr
college wit honor.
1925
ujur, Infontry.
rdered to er any for study of
ilitory affairs.
894.20/209
1928
tt ched to  rtice of inapector
woneral or 1litary freining.
1929
-reut-coionel, nf ntry.
ttached to srd niuntry egi ent
of imperiel uunrds.
1930 (1)
tt chee to the ry contrel ranano
sepot nd nolain conourrently a post
in the 1litary  ffairs Bureau, War
epart ent.
1981 (Aug. 1)
n the stair of the ilitary ffairs
pur au, ar epartment.
1932 (June 9)
i1 tary in:tructor at the rmy collee
1933
colonel, infntry.
19:35 (Aug. 1)
chief eward ection, . eraonn
ourenu, ar erart ent.
1936
Commander 24th mf ntry eg1ment.
1937 (.ug. 2)
ajor-Generol.
FI
FG
From: /. Tokyo.
Report o. 938
April 20, 1938
RESTRICTED

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.91)
RESTRICTED
urdered duty in anehukuo and
stationed at Lishuehen.
1988 (Apr11 14)
Director Military ffaire Lureau.
"ar Depertment.
Court rank: Junior grade or 5th
Court Rank.
highest decorotion: 3rd urder
of Rising un.
2. Gemeral Nakamare, as thc above record shows,
hes held a suceession of importent posts in the army
md mis seleetion to replace General mchijiri as
Direetor or the importent Military ffairs Luroeu is
looked upon by many Japanese cfficers as a logieal
ehoiee.
3. Goneral Nakamure 1s not known for any particular
speeialty other than a eonsistentiy good record. hile
in anohurio he ocoupied the extro-duty position of
head of the omen's atlonal efense ssociation.
-ouroe: xress.
.rmy lint.
-fricial Gazette
Uiatribution:
-arry . -reswell,
A.C.of S.. G-2
ajor, ctg. venerel taff,
x/
:ilitury ttaohe.
rile
H
from: M/A, Tokye.
Report No. 9342
April 20, 1988
- 2 -
@RSTRICTED

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.88)
RESTRICTED
REPORT
6
6210
RECEIVEL
1938
J0N 6 138
28
2023.757
MAY
ubjeot:
Personne1 - Cormimsioned.
waroh promotiuns nd ass1gnments.
894120
1. The customer
arch prootions an as 1 nments announoed
on mrch 2. 19e, throu h the ofrio1 1 azette,  ffected the
promotion f so e 152 officers. Tie as 1 mwent of offloers
to new duties ta nov seoret no no chanes oter then a fow
military atteones were ublialed. fhe ot er sirts noted
herein were re orte  lool
BS
2.
ro motions.
it
a.
Combatant
1240
Ton-oombett
20
J
otal
1520
Joner1 f 1oers
894.20/210
(1)
leutenant e erai
7
combetent
5
on-combatant
The followi.
Jore
ro tod to lou-
tenant enerals:
Takekatsu  ubo
aburo ndo
E1 jiro Ta Jime
MaBeo.1 Yosuoka
Teteuzo Ne ajima
oreoh1ka nari
Juton1 adn
1ax1 1efuji
Tiroharu Tsuneo
Tadoohi Kawomuro
1 Taj1ri
asno Yokoyama
Takio 1 (1rono
rokuji akoyama
irosni shime
shigeru awade
se1ic1uno
1936
Sichiro Hamori
To1oh1 asak1
Yasujiro atake
Juku daon1
kasanisa inta
Tane1ta aito
X1smburo Hamamo to
Hitesh1 Imamure
Hansaburo Ishikawe
Intendanes Corps
Akira Xoshikawa
Medical Corps.
Frem: W/h. Tokyo
Report No. 9344
April 21, 1938
RESTRICTED

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.91)
RESTRICYED
the now lieutement omerels are from 51 to  (imel)
me ef age mth an eee avesege of 3. Twenty eme of the
lseuteaemt eaerals graduated in 1906 from the vil1tary
54
(2) Major Comerals
All m: jor gemerels promoted were of combe tant branehes
and are listed herewith as of braneh from whioh promoted:
Wilitary rolice
2
31
Infantry
3756
Cavalry
Artillery
Air ervico
ngineers
54
Total
Fr00: W/hg Dokyo
Report No. 9344
Apr11 21, 1938
DEATRICEED

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.92)
1938
EED
ESTRIRD
c. Vield and Compeay Officere.
一
Branch
Col.
it. Col.
Captain
lot Lt.
Total
Mmilitary tolice
3
6
10
10
29
Infastry
112
152
116
549
Cavelry
9
16
15
20
2
62
Artillery
26
46
70
54
14
210
•0.
A1r 5erv100
35
37
44
25
189
iodr
Engineer
8
15
32
26
2
83
Tresaport
6
12
12
39
172
244
EC
308
169
1161
Hom-combatants.
Intendance
8
15
30
23
31
105
Medicel
7
15
23
78
123
Apotheeary
2
2
1
6
Hyglene
5
5
●
From:
Votertsey
1
3
6
13
16
14
36
62
190
47
298

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.86)
6. Twe Lloutonant Gemerels were placed on the lst
messsve, March 1st, 1038:
Keikseh1 Ogashi
Satselce tou Oroabe.
Lieutomemt Cemerel kubo wms promoted to lieutenmnt
geaesel en Merek lst and placed in lst reserve on sene date.
Img l1es Maroh 11sh, 1938.
b. Other ofrieers have certeinly been placed on the
immetiw llst as a result of the loroh orders, but no list
hms beem publioly announeed.
4. Ixastere.
Inly the transfer of four military attaehes were
ammoameed in the ofricial gazette, mongst these, njor
Gemsrel Kwmakiohi larada wes relieved as  1litary  ttache
to the Japanese mbassy in Cl:ins.
b. Important assignments es reported in loeel ress
were as follows:
Namm
Assignment
Lieutenant General rince
Momber of upreme 1l1-
Yasuhiko saka
tary Joune1i
Lt. Gen. Kijiro Tmjim
V
himonoseki Fortress
()
Maj. Gon. Jiro Tozawa
Yure Fortreme (0..)
1
Mj. on. Takeyoeni Imanaka
Teugary Fortres (..)
1
Maj. Cen. Toanimich1 Uemura
Jommandant, Tokyo Mili-
tary reparetory school.
Maj. Gon. Tomokata Ito
111
Jomrndant, Toyohaohi
Treinins Sohool.
. Gen. kic 1 Yomaza.
or dant, umamoto
Tinin oo1.
j. .
s1 londa
ssiatunt orandant.
Inf:ntry ohool.
en101r0
..lef, rtillery Courme
of rtillery und n-
i neer cnvol.
M. . Y  P 1
111tary Instruotor,
tarf college.
Maj. Gon. Tkkaku Shimono
tteched to himoshizu
y ir ohool
NO
Waj. Cen. samu Teuksta
ommandant, rmy taff
college
From: M/. Tekyo
Report No. 9344
Apri1 21, 1938
RESTRIC

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.89)
RESTRIGYED
Assigmment
Laout. Gon. so11ehi Kwmo
Chief, Army Remount
Dopt.
NB
MaJ. Cen. Osmm aeda
Direetor, General Af-
fairs Dept., Army
reenal.
NI
Maj. Cen. Kanjo Saito
Chier, sodioel Dopt.
of wantung rmy.
6. The aroh chenge wore generally approved by the Looal
press, and cormonts that " nrtioularly have new and ung
mon reeeived promotione". The tranefers re relatively fow
in number and mainly affeot offioors I military sohools,
which the newe apers take to mann that omphasis is being
plaeed on reinvigor tion of rilit ry eduontion, tn in a-
vantege of experlonoe ained in the ourrent f1 ti and
laying u foundetion for nodernization of  rmy equipment.
The asana1 states that "the pereonnel 1s so stren thened that
the army w11l be invulnorable in co vin 1th lone term
hostilities.
souree:fficial gazetto n ress.
Distri bution:
NVA
erry I. . reswell,
File
Jor, otin Ceneral taff,
ilitar ttache.
FrOm: . Tok
Report No. 9344
pr11 21, 1938
RESTRICTED

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
8621.01/335
Te1 #12210pm
SEE
FOR
FROM
Geneva
Bucknell
DATED
June 10, 1938.
TO
NAME
1-1127
ero
894.20/
Application of Japenese national mobilization law of May, l938,
REGARDING:
to Japanese mandated islands in Pacific.
Protest of Chinese government delivered to Secretary General of
League, according to Koo.
2
FRG.
2
二
