894.00B Japan, Bolshevism. Communism. Communistic Activities. Subversive Activities., July 10, 1946 - December 21, 1949 (File 1821), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.00B-1821-1   Pages: 254   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00b-japan-bolshevism-communism-6/894.00B%20Japan%2C%20Bolshevism.%20Communism.%20Communistic%20Activities.%20Subversive%20Activities.%2C%20July%2010%2C%201946%20-%20December%2021%2C%201949%201821-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFLUENTIAL
27
UNITED STATES POLITICAL
FOR JAPAN
DU/R
Tokyo, July 10, 1946.
11元
5.
NO.-498
RANCH
SUBJECT:
Transmitting Memorandum on Communist Activities in Press
Circles in Japan.
094.00B/7-1046
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to enclose
a copy of a memorandum dated May 27, 1946 prepared in General Head-
quarters, in which there is given in some detail information in
regard to activities by Communist Party members or by "fellow
travelers" of the Communist Party in their efforts to intimidate
the Japanese press and newspaper workers. There is also described
XR894.91
Communist Party methods in attempting to disseminate Communist
propaganda through the Japanese press. It is asserted that if the
large Tokyo dailies such as Mainichi and Asahi could obtain moral
support from the Occupation authorities in resistence to Communist
activities the editors and officials of these newspapers would be
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
AUG 2-1946
able to devote themselves whole-heartedly to the cause of true
democracy. They assert that "they must be free from fear, free
from intimidation of both commimism and fascism, and free from
propaganda."
This memorandum is believed to be accurate in its description
of certain recent developments and conditions in Japanese press
circles.
CS/V
Enclosure:
Memorandum dated May 27, 1946.
Original and hectograph to Department
Copy to Embassy, Moscow
SEP 1 9 1946
894.00B
800/891
FILED
MVBishop:vm
MuB

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
28
Enclosure to despatch No. 498 dated July 10, 1946, from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Trans-
mitting Memorandum on Communist Activities in Press Circles in
Japan."
(COPY)
May 27, 1946
Some time ago the Japanese government through the Chief Secre-
tary of the Cabinet notified leading newspapers such as the Mainichi,
Asahi, Yomiuri and Nippon Keizai that they should submit to the
Government reports on personal histories of all present directors,
managing editors and some key editors of their papers. The desired
reports have been duly submitted.
It is said that the government has taken the aforementioned
step in order to examine records of those directors and editors
during the period between the beginning of the Manchurian incident
and the end of the Pacific War, and determine whether or not they
have qualifications to hold a public office when they have left
the newspapers. Although it is believed that the government does
not intend to purge them from their present positions, for it does
not regard newspapermen as public officers, it cannot be ascertained
whether this interpretation correctly reflects the view of SCAP.
In this connection it may not be idle to mention the fact that
soon after the unconditional surrender of Japan, leading newspapers
in the country took the following steps in order to define their
moral responsibilities as semi-public organs for the part they
played in the execution of her aggressive war. There took place
wholesale resignations of those holding important positions during
the war in both editorial and business departments. Such resig-
nations in the Mainichi and the Asahi in particular were so thor-
oughly executed in a short period of about two weeks after the
surrender that the conduct of the papers seemed greatly endangered,
for never before had they lost such a large number of key men,
most of whom had experience of many years as newspapermen and
executives.
In the case of the Mainichi, all the 15 directors, including
Shingoro Takaishi, chairman of the Board of Directors; Shintaro
Okumura, President; Motosaburo Takata, Managing Editor; Torashige
Uehara, Editor-in-Chief; Kichiji Shikakura, Managing Director;
resigned en bloc, and subsequently completely severed relations
with the Mainichi. By taking this step the Mainichi itself and
all its employees believe that the paper defined its responsibility
for the part it took during the var.
And to start afresh as a genuinely democratic newspaper, the
Mainichi employees elected new directors through their representatives
whom they chose by popular votes. The directors thus chosen are:
Masaharu Nagato, Editor-in-Chief.
Kazuo Kanda, Representative Director and Maaging Editor
(Tokyo)
Ippo Tsukada, Director of Business Dept. (Tokyo)
Chikao Honda, Managing Editor (Osaka)
Taro liirano, Director of Business Dept. (Osaka)
Katsuji Kamo, Managing Editor (Mgi)
and four others including three auditors.
The new

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's despatch No. 498
-2-
July 10, 1946
The new directors' terms are three years, ending in November, 1948.
The Mainichi has now no president or chairman. The new directors
jointly hold themselves responsible for the management of the paper.
The employees of the Mainichi who have been organized into union
have thus rights not only to elect directors but to actually wield
the destiny of the paper, for the directors are elected by them.
The characteristic of the Mainichi which is a joint stock
company is that its stocks are open only to the employees and that
no outsiders can either own or buy them. It may therefore be
called a newspaper run under a cooperative management, which naturally
cannot be restrained or influenced by any outside capital, while
the Asahi and the Yomiuri are owned by capitalists.
The above-mentioned facts show that the Mainichi's employees'
Union may exercise its powerful rights if it chooses to do so, for
it can even over-rule any decision made by the directors, who are
excluded from union membership. As it may seem strange, the
Mainichi's Employees' Union was organized into one single industrial
union, including editors, reporters, printers, messenger boys,
carpenters, automobile drivers and everybody else on equal footing.
So the printers, the unskilled labor and the like are given the
same voice as that of editors in making decisions on much important
questions as to wield the destiny of the paper. Therefore, the
question whether or not the Mainichi can continue to remain such a
sound and democratic paper as it is now largely depends on leader-
ship of its Employees' Union, and also on the ideological attitude
of the directors and editors who have to keep contact with represen-
tatives of the Union.
Everything had been all right with the Mainichi and with the
Employees' Union until some time ago. But when the Union with
its 5,500 members recently joined the "Nippon Shimbun Tsushin
Jyugyoin Kumiai" (Japan Press and News Agency Employees Union),
it began to become radical. The Japan Press and News Agency Employ-
ees Union is a national industrial union which now embraces all
the employees of the newspapers and news agencies throughout the
country. It has made some good contributions toward raising wages
of newspaper employees, improving their working conditions, parti-
cularly those of employees of provincial papers.
However, the leaders of the Japan Press and News Agency
Employees Union vho are closely associated with communists, not
contented with confining its activities to the industrial and
economic fields as it should, are apparently trying to make use to
the maximum of the organized power of the union in the political
field to eventually control the press.
The Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Japan Press and
News Agency Employees Union is Katsumi Kikunami, (a pro-conmmunist
and pro Russian) who is a member of the Editorial Board of the Asahi,
and its Vice-Chairman Tomin Suzuki, (another pro-Russian and pro-
Communist) who holds the position of chairman of the executive com-
mittee of the Employees Union of the Yomiuri and of Managing Editor
as well as City News Editor of the same paper. Suzuki is also Chair-
man of the Executive Committee of Kwanto Minshu Food Control Associ-
ation, which is of commnistic nature. The Chief Secretary of the
Japan

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's despatch No. 498
-3-
July 10, 1946
Japan Press and News Agency Union is Sumio Makino, a staff member
of the Financial News Department of the Mainichi. The two leaders,
Suzuki and Kikunami, who actually control the Union, are known as
radicals and are closely collaborating with the Communist Party.
Incidentally, before these men were chosen, Suzuki openly tried to
become the Chairman and made a hard campaign to win votes among the
employees of the Mainichi, Asahi and other papers, but met strong
opposition. So Kikumami, who is Suzuki's close friend, was chosen
Chairman as a compromise. Makino is less radical but seems to be
being gradually dragged into Suzuki's camp. When some time ago
the Communist Party of Japan and other left-wing organizations staged
a city-wide demonstration in Tokyo, demanding immediate resignation
of the Shidehara Cabinet, Suzuki and Kikunami as representatives of
the Japan Press and News Agency Employees Union had actively parti-
cipated in it.
The May Day demonstration which was organized under the Commu-
nists' leadership, Suzuki and Kikunami joined it as members of the
May Day Committee with Kyuichi Tokuda, Kenichi Ito, both communists,
and other radicals. And this May Day Committee directed the Japan
Press and News Agency Employees Union to participate in the demon-
stration, who in turn gave same order to its affiliated newspaper
employees unions, such as Mainichi's and Asahi's. The order demanded
each newspaper to mobilize a fixed number of employees for the
demonstration with free lunch, for which the company was compelled
to pay. The quota of the men as demanded to the Mainichi to parti-
cipate in the demonstration was 300.
At the time of the Food Day demonstration, which was also
initiated by the same May Day Committtee, the Japan Press and News
Agency Employees Union alsc demanded the Mainichi to let 400 of its
employees participate. But the Mainichi at this time refused to
comply with it, for it did not approve the demonstration because
of its political nature.
Later in the afternoon of the Food May Day, a group of the
demonstrators numbering about 50, carrying some red flags and 1ed
by Shiga, Vice-Chairman of the Yomiuri's Employees Union forced
into the Mainichi Building, demanding explanations with angry words
and managing gestures why the Mainichi did not take part in the
food demonstration.
The exact relationship of Tomin Suzuki is not knowm. Vhen
Tsunego Baba became President of the Yomiuri last autumn at the
request of former President M. Shoriki, he asked Suzuldi if he was
a member of the Communist Party; Suzuki's reply was in the negative.
However, Suzuli's activities in many latest communists' demonstrations,
his wribings, his paper's 1o0 per cent support to the Communist
Party, and his close associations with Tokuda and Shiga, leaders
of the Communist Party, who believe in direct action, make one be-
lieve he is a radical, if not a communist.
It is also a known fact that Suzuki, taking advantage of his
position as Managing Editor and City News Editor of the Yomiuri and
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the paper's Employees' Union,
virtually controls the Yomiuri. He does not even counsel or ask
for advice or opinion of Baba, President of the paper, regarding its
editorial policy and management of it. Tsunego baba is a noted liberal
and journalist

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's despatch No. 498
-4-
July 10, 1946
and journalist and is respected by many people. He is today an
adviser to the Social Democratic Party of Japan. It is a peculiar
thing that President Baba and Managing Editor cannot agree with
each other on their own paper's policy. Baba has recently told to
his friend, "I don't read my paper, Yomiuri, very much. It's an
unworthy paper."
The reason why a special mention of Tomin Suzuki should have
been made is the fact that his activities in the labor movement have
either direct or indirect bearing on the Mainichi because the paper's
Employees Union is a branch of the Japan Press and News Agency
Employees Union and it is so placed as to receive instructions from
the latter which is virtually controlled by Suzuki and his radical
associates. For instance, the general meeting of the Mainichi's
union has recently passed a resolution which forbids editors and
chiefs of various editorial and business departments the right to
be elected a member of any committees of the union although they
are all members of the union. Naturally all the important positions
in the Mainichi's union are occupied by younger men who have less
training and less experience either as newspapermen or printers.
It will be all right that younger and more vigorous men run the
union and work for the good of all employees as long as the union
confines its activities to the industrial and economic field. But
the trouble is that their tendency is becoming more political. Most
of these young men were graduated from schools, colleges or uni-
versities since the Manchurian incident broke out. They were all
unfortunate souls because they were more influenced by the environ-
ments and way of thinking then prevailing under the rule of militarists
and fascists than the older generation.
During the period of 15 years since the Manchurian incident
it was a taboo for the Japanese people to openly study and discuss
true democracy or liberalism. Needless to say, it was prohibited
to study or discuss socialism, communism and general social sciences.
Thus handicapped during best years of life, not a small number of
young men who consist of members of the employees union misunderstand
the meaning of "Liberty" and "Freedom," and are apt to confuse
democracy,with selfishness. And many of them cannot distinguish
between democracy, socialism and communism. As they are ignorant
or not conscious of evils and harm that communism causes to the
political, economical and social structure of the country, they
cannot see through designs and conspiracies cleverly set by the
Comnmunist Party. They are also not able to make a reasonable
judgement of instructions or orders of the so-called headquarters
of the Employees Union or the resolutions of the union meetings
dominated by radicals.
These undesirable or unhealthy younger elements are gradually
gaining power in the printers' shop, and in editorial and business
departments of newspapers. Under these circunstances, it may not
be a merely imaginary fear that the Communist Party will gain complete
control of newspapers employees unions and infiltrate into the press
itself to eventually control it. For example, the Yomiuri, one of
the three largest papers in Japan, is now virtually controlled by
the Communist Party. As a matter of fact, 90% of the capital of
the Yomiuri is owmed by former President Matsutaro Shoriki, but
the paper is being controlled and managed by the employees union
under the leadership of Tomin Suzuki. Suzuki's ambition, as well as
the Communists

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's despatch No. 498
-5-
July 10, 1946
the Communists Party's is believed to control the Asahi and the
Mainichi in particular, two Largest papers, through the respective
paper's employees union. A certain radical member of a certain
paper's union committee has recently said, "Newspaper employees who
secretly work for the Communist Party are probably being camouflaged
in a most un-communist-like disguise." Therefore, it is impossible
to find out how many communists are in the employment of the Mainichi
and the Asahi.
It may be of special interest that the Communist Party is con-
stantly trying to disseminate communist propaganda through the
press and it sends out numerous propaganda news items to all the
newspapers throughout the country. In the cases of Tokyo papers,
these news items are either personally delivered by communist party
members or by its sympathizers among the employees of newspapers.
And when they deliver them they ask to see editors or sub-editors
or reporters in charge, and demand that they be printed without
fail. If a paper fails to comply with it, they come to the news-
papers office next day and menacingly demand explanations. It is
most desirable and welcome that the newspaper employees union under
stands the true character of newspapers as a semi-public organ,
realizes grave responsibility of the press for byilding up the
country as a truly peace-loving and democratic nation and strives
to use its organized power and influence to that just cause. But
evidences prove that the tendency of the present newspaper employees
unions is too radical, fascistic radical, too sympathetic to or too
collaborating with the Communist Party. Most of the young employees
of the newspapers do not know that the Communist Party of Japan is
closely connected with the communist organizations abroad.
Since the termination of the war, shortage of food, accellerated
inflation, ineffective policy of the government and other unsettled
conditions have presented a very favorable ground for aggressive
activity of the communists in Japan. The deed and words of communist
leaders have gained attraction among young employees of newspapers.
Among them it has become a sort of fashion to invite these communist
leaders to give them lectures on communism, the communist party, etc.
It is now reported that the Japan Press and News Agency Employees
Union is contemplating to gain control over press clubs formed by
reporters assigned at various governmental departments, so that the
conmunists may eventually control news sources in these fields.
The parties who are liberal and loyal to SCAP and who are
trying hard to prevent such dangerous communistic activities from
further penetration into the press are the present directors, editors,
similarly ranking persons of the Mainichi and the Asahi, to whom not
a small number of sensible reporters and employees are giving honest
support。
However, if either SCAP or the Japanese Government would take
such a step as to make public examined qualifications of the present
directors and some key editors of leading newspapers, and make known
that such and such persons are not qualified to hold public office,
it will certainly give a golden opportunity for the Communist Party
and the collaborators to further aggressive infiltration into the
press, particularly to attack both the Asahi and the Mainichi. For
the Communist Party have already made some good ground work for such
action

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
P
Tokyo's despatch No. 498
-6 -
July 10, 1946
action through the employees unions.
Taking into full consideration such a situation as above men-
tioned, the writer wishes to make the following suggestions; ie, if
the GHQ finds it necessary to review and decide individual quali-
fications to public office of the present directors, managing editors,
managers and others holding similarly important positions, it should
keep the decision secret until such a time when it would be deemed
absolutely necessary. This suggestion should not be taken by any
means as an attempt to protect any individual newspaperman from a
selfish viewpoint, for the writer feels that whoever found not fit
or undesirable to take any important position in the press or public
office should be eliminated without mercy. The writer's sole con-
cern is to check further infiltration of commnism into the press,
for such penetration will produce a disastrous and destructive effect
on Japan and her people similar to that brought forth by her
agressive war. If such large papers as the Mainichi and the Asahi
could obtain some moral support in one way or other from CHQ in
their anti-communist policy, they would be able to wholeheartedly
devote themselves to the cuase of true democracy. They must be
free from fear, free from intimidation of both communism and fascism,
and free from propaganda.
Mr. George Atcheson's recent statement on communism has given
a considerable encouragement to the Japanese press as well as to
the overwhelming majority of the people of the country. But in
order to solidify the anti-communist front, some further steps
by GHQ are earnestly desired by all who sincerely wish to see Japan
reconstructed as a really democratic country.
The Mainichi and the Asahi have daily circuhtions of about 3
millions and 200 thousands each, and their influence over the
people is very great. Both papers stand for 1o0% cooperation with
and dependence on the United States of America. Never have they
even thought of Japan rebuilt on a pattern similar to that of
communist Russia. Most of the present directors, managing editors,
and other key editors have been in America or England - some lived
in America for more than 5 or 10 years. They have deep respect to
and understanding of Anglo-American cul ture, their people and their
political institutions. Such ideas and views are in perfect accord
with those of most of the intellectual people who have made a
comparative study of America and Soviet Russia.
The Japanese communists are apparently designing to make the
Asahi and the Mainichi newspapers like Yomiuri by kicking the present
directors, managing editors, key editors and other liberals and re-
placing them with communists or their sympathizers or fellow travelers.
Therefore, if the Communist Party would have grasped any information
or material that might come out from GHy which may give even a slight
hint of encouragement to it, it will undoubtedly utilize it to full
advantage and will make a full-scale offensive to eventually control
the press, the Mainichi and the Asahi in particular.
-000-

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
29
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
J
Tokyo, July 22, 1946.
CONFIDENTIAL
FR
No. 514
SUBJECT: Report on Communist Party Schools in Japan.
AFFAIRS
SEP 5 1946
894.00B/7-2246
1/
enclose five copies of a report, April 15, 1946, entitled "Communist
Party Schools" prepared by the Cffice of the Chief of Counter-
Intelligence of General Headquarters, United States Army Forces,
Pacific.
Y CORRELATION
cots
1946
Enclosure:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1/ Five copies of report, as stated.
Original and ozalid to Department.
800
UAJohnson/blc
FILED
MiB
DECLASSIFIED
E.0. 11652. Se(D) or (E)
AND 740C8/
L. CD/SR
9.00T 1975

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.96)
JA - Mr. Bortom
JA - H. Xullgram
Commuaist Party Sehools - April 15, 194s
The attached report is a valmable and interesting
ascount of the method used by the Gommenist Party in
disseminating its ideelegy. The party's stnsatiesel
program atrives to reaeh party members, laber umion
members and the gemeral publie in order of priority.
The leading party sohool, located in Tokyo, has
250 members and is headed by Nosaka Samso and staffed
by party leaders. Texts wsed imelude works of Marx,
Lenin and Stalin but it is mote-worthy that very eareful
consideration has besn given to the study of applying
Communist theories to the probles as it applies espesially
to Japan. Spesial sohoole are established to propagandise
the movement through a oultural program and to further
researoh in Marxism and Leniniem.
The program in the Labor Union Sohools lacked standardi-
zation, not oaly of sohedules but of subjeot and teaching
mothods. Until Hay 1948, the teachers were all volumteers,
mostly professlonals from the left-wing Demooratie Selentiss's
Ass'n. Howetrer, in May these teachers were organized into a
Teaoher's Ass'n. whioh eince it is largely Comamnist domimate
will result in tighter control by she Communist Party. Abont
2 to 3 thousand persons are enrelled in these sohools through-
out Japan.
"People'e Sahools" are conduoted for the general public,
there boing about 20 in suburban aroas of Tokyo. Subjeots
are more general in nature and are largely left to disore-
tion of teaoher. Attendenoe throughout Japan numbers about
2 to 3 thousand.
JA:HKullgren:sg

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
Communiat Party Sohcols (Cont'a)
3. The Food Problem
4. Japansse People's History.
Sohools siwiler to theso have been organizod throughout
Japan and havo an ettendance of two to three thousand persons.
Evaluation
---of gource
---of information
B
2
Supplemontery Information:
Sinee ohe preceding evomary of informotion wag written.
the following further information regarding Communist schools
has come to the attontion of shis offics:
To date, Comaunist sohoola have boan eshablisbed in
Tokyo, Caeka, Chibe, Hokkaino, Nagoya, Momoma and Iohikewa
Profeoturen. Comeunist seboole hove baen reported plenned
in Akite and Eanacave Praceeturce. and a School sponsored by
the Woung Goamumigt League ls repamsed in Sondaa, Miyagl
Prefecture.
COT FIDEI PTAL

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.94)
G NERAL HEADQUARTERS
UITD STATES ARMY FORCES. PACIFIC
Office of the Chief of Counter-Intelligenco
Special Reports
APO 500
15 Apr11 1946
SUBJTCT: Communist Party Schools.
SUTARY CF INFCRTAPION:
The Japanese Communist Party's educational program is
divided into tbree phases. The firat is the eduoation of
Party members, the seeond, the oducetion of labor union members,
and the third, the education of the people as a whcle. The
Communiat Party Sohocl is the moans of accomplishirg the
first objeotive.
As a first stop toward the establishmont of a communiat
univoraity the party opened a party school at its headquarters
in Tokyo in Deceubor 1945 to ins truct party membero in
Communist doctrine. The schocl has an enrollmont cf 250
atudents, all se bero of the Communist Party. Olasses meet
three timos wocllly for a throo monthe pericd. At present,
the socond tora, whioh bagan in April ls in progross.
Director of the schocl is NCzakA Sanzo and ho 1s assisted
by a faculty including TCKUDA, SHIGA, HANA ADA, IYANCTO YUriko,
MiyAr TC Konji, Irc Ritau, Central Wxecutive Commlttoe members
and such other leading mombers of tho party ao KaAlAiI,
YA ABE. AJU URA, VAFAI ABT. CNC, NAMASARI, CKATC, And HIRAKI.
The governmert of tho sohool is entrusted to a Schccl Tanage-
ment Committoe in which the etudents participate through.
their roprepentativos. Texts used at the schcol include
Stalin's "Fundamentals of Leniniem", Marx's "Dialectical
Materialism", and "Marxist History" At the end of the three
month's couree, an examination is given. Phe final evening
is davoted to an open forum digcuasion.
The ooursos givon are tho following:
1.
Marxiet Tcoromica
2.
Party Crganization and Discipline
3。
Current evento
4。
Histcrical Katerialism
5.
Problems of Labor Unionization
6。
Women's and Youth Probloms
7.
Jepancso Peoplo's History
8。
Tho Moiji Restoration and its Significance
9.
The Nature of the Tenno Syatem
10.
Tho Dovelopment of Japanese Capitalism.
-1-
-GCNPIDENTIAL

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
Communins Party Sohools (Cont'd)
11.
Agricultural Problems and Land Reform
12.
History of the World Proletarian Movemont
13.
History of the Japanese Proletarian Movement
14.
The Tacties and Stretegy of the Japanese
Communist Party
15.
Analysis. of Japanese Political Parties
16.
The Nature of the Current Japanese Revolution
17. Problems of a Democratio Front
In addition to the Communist Party School in Tokyo,
similar echools will be eatablished in various parts of
Japan. In Kyoto, a sohool was establiahed by the Regional
Committee of that Prefeoture during the middle of April 1946.
Fifty men and wonen are now attending tho sohool whioh
offers courses dealing with Politioal Econony, Historical
Materialism and tho Emperor System. Party sohools have also
been set up in CSAiA, CHIBA and HOKKAIDO.
In lino with its policy of furthering the oommunist move-
ment by means of a cultural program, The Communist Party at
the beginning of May oponed its Propaganda Art Sohool in
Tokyo with HIJIKATA Yoshi as its head. Tho 120 peraons who
were enrolled at that time consisted mainly of working men
and womon frow various parts of tho country. Tho sohool,
which is open three times a wesk in the evening gives inetruo-
tions in drama, art and music.
For the purpose of carrying on researoh along larxist
and Leniniat lines, the Communist Party, at the ond of April,
es tablished ar insti tute in Tokyo with NCZAkA Sanzo as 1ts
head. The repearch work of the ingtitute will inolude the
collection, editing and translation of Tarxist and Leninist
litorature, and the compilation of books to be used in
party sponsored solhools. While at present the work of the
institute io ccnfined to the translat1on of commurist olasalos,
it will eventually sorve as an instisution of Varxist research
in the fiolds of scionce, economien, politice, phiiosophy and
hiatory.
The second phase of the Communist Party's educational
program is tho educat1on of Labor Union lembore and toward
this end clevor laber unlon sohoole bave been openod in the
Tokyo aroa. Until now, the Labor Union Soheols have lackod
standardization not only of achodulos but alsc of subjeot
matter and toaching mathode. The teachers are ll volunteers
and mogt of them balong to the Demooratlc Seientist's Associa-
t1on (Minshu Shugi Kagakusha Kyokai) a group of professional
people, artists and atudonts of loft-wing sympathies and
liberal tendorcies. According to CNo Yoshiko, Chief of
-2 -
OONFIDET:TIAL

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
Communiat Party Soncols (cont'd)
Education. for the Communist Party, those instructors bave
too often talked qver the heads or their laboring-olass
tudents and this, combined with the dirriculties inberent
in all night sehocl and adult-aducation programe has resulted
in a teadily dwindling enrollment. During May, there are
probably no more than five hundred students in all the
leven sohools in the Tokyo area. In order to revorse this
tendenoy. it was recently declded to reduce the number of
subjects taught and to inoremse the amount of time devoted
to eaoh. The presont revised list of oourses is limited to
the following:
1.
Tconomios
2.
Japanoge History
3.
Labor Unicnization Problema
4.
Current Events
Agricultural nd Food Probloms
6
Problems of & Popular Front, with an analysis of
Japanene Poiltical Parties.
Mr. ONO exgrosssd the belief that such subjocts as
Economics and Fistrry would be givon a Marxlan interprotation,
but etatod tlat sinee many of the teaehers of those Labor
Union Schools are not communist Perty members, there would
be some divergenoe according to the individual toachers
oonvictions. cro however states further tlat communist party
teachere, beirg closer to the working classes, have approached
their subieots from a mere practical and less thooretioal
standpoint and that as a regult, their classee have beon
better attendod. This statement, while being that of a
partlsan commurist, is probably oorreot in that it indicates
the generally more effeotive porauasive methods of the
Coumurigts t'ar those of their Sccialist rivels. The teachere
f these Labor Union Schocla were organized in ay into a
Teachers Association whioh, since it ie largely d L gunist
dominated, will rasult in a tighter contrel of tio Labor
Union Schools by tho Com unist Party. Adide frcy Pokyo,
largo labor unirn nchcols have been established ir Kyoto,
Kobe and Nagoya. In all, a total of two to tbrso thousand
porsone are atlonJirg labor union schools througlout Japan.
To aocoupliah tho third phsse of the Communist's educational
program, tho oducation of the people at large, abcut twenty
"Peoples Schocla" ( inshu Gak:o) have baen established in the
suburban waris of greater Tokyo. The sohools woot onoe a week
and the choice of subjocte is loft largely tc the teaohor.
The ccurees ffercd in ono school, whioh are fairly ropresenta-
tive of thonc being taught elsewhore, ere as follows:
1. Inflatior, its cause and oure
2. Development of Modern Society
-3-
OONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.87)
Communiot Party Sohcols (uont'a)
30
Phe Food Problom
4. Japanase People's History.
Evaluation
---of source
---of information
B
2
Supplomontery tafornation:
sinoe obe preoodins o  ary oo spforme tion vag writted.
the following furaher ircermmstou pogarding dommunist pehoole
hes come to the abtontion f this office:
to date, Comsunist eabools bave beon os bablishod in
Tokyo, Csaka, Chibe, Hokke do, Ragoye. Aomori and Iehikawa
Profeoturen. Com unlst pobools bavs been repopted plenned
in Aklte ara Banavowa Poo Gegturoe and a Se beel spersored by
the Youne Go  musist Leeaes is reparsed in Sondal, Mayagi
Pre focture.
4
GOI FIDELPTAL

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.83)
UDEI AL
Communist Farty Sohcols
(cont)
3. The Food Problem
4. Japanese People s History.
Schools similar to these have been organizod throughout
Japan and have an attendancs of two to three thousand persons.
Evaluation
---of gourge
---of information
B
2
Suy 
sago? obs orooodk ao ey to anfopsettor wae wttten.
the follevins furater anfor mastto pagesdtng commmlet poboole
hes dome to bho attontaom er tbla offices
To dats, Comuuriet saboola muve becn estebliobcd in
Tokyo, Cockn, Chibe. Hotkatdo, Nagoye, Aomori and Lehikawa
Profoetupen. dow veist sehools bave been reperted planned
in Akits ans Bcnaceve Moe fooouree, end a Sebeol sporsored by
the Touns Goumumiat Lescue ls roporbed in Sendai, Mayagi
Prefooor
4
COTFTDELLAL

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
WAR DEPARTMENT
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
Mol Rear usced
DISTRIBUTION
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED. HANDLE AS SECRET CORRESPONDENCE
PER PARAS 511 and 60a (4), AR 380-5
Intelligence Division GSUSA
Curlx
Intelligence Group CSGID
MaJ Carlan 4165
FILE
cck
31 October 1947
CINCFE Tokyo Jepan
Nr:
WAR 89551
894.00B/10-3147
From CSGID reurad C 56332.
Committee for democratie far eastern policy is Communist
domineted. Communist sympathles or connections verified for
Individuels mentioned except Lindsay, Soeman, Stein and willard.
Reference secret meeting unconfirmed to date. Letter with
deteils tollows.
End
0 56332 is CM IN 4770, 26 Oct 47
DIVISION OF
UFYFI OPMERI
1917
NU. 241947
FILED
CRICTNATOR:
CS/A
ON OUT 89551
(Nov 47)
TG 0102175
SECRET
19
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
MICH., CHAIRMAN
H, WHITE, JR, MAINE
WALTER F. BEORGE, GA.
pER WILEY, WIS.
ROBERT P. WAGHER, N. Y.
NORTHEAST AS
ELBERT D. THOMAS, UTAH
lnited States Senate
CABOT LODGE, JR., MASS.
CARL A. HATCH, N. MIDX.
FRANCIS O. WILCOX, CHIEF OF STAFF
FEB-31948
C. C. G'DAY, CLERK
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RILATIONS
January 28, 1948
DEPARTMENT OF
File
Secretary George C. Marshall
Department of State
h A: RAZ
Washington, D. C.
My dear General Marshall:
The following was written on a New Year's card from Japan.
It is from a member of the Japanese Diet. I send it to you because it
may reflect a wider opinion than just the writer's.
"Since I heard from you early this year, I have been wishing
to write. The situation in Japan is gradually improving, but the
chaos now existing will continue in the future. We do appreciate
America's assistance and our people are grateful to the American
Government and people.
1-2848
"Taking advantage of the economic difficulties, the Soviet
Union is working very adroitly to spread Communism in Japan.
Communists in Japan are backed by the Soviet and are working
systematically and are well organized and are working hard to
cause chaos and confusicn by discrediting the good works done by
2012
the United States in Japan. Then every night at 10: 30 PM Moscow
is broadcasting to Japan in Japanese language by an efficient
Japanese, and it does a great deal to damage good American influence.
Our industries are now paralyzed by Red Workers, and it will take
a long time to restore Japanese industries, if the present state of
Communist agitation continues. I wish very much if you could cause
the American Government to take a stern attitude toward the Soviet.
It is said that an enormous amount of funis are sent by Russians to
Japan through Loreans (Connunists) in Japan.
"You were responsible for bringing Italy back into the Com-
munity of ations. I hope you will help us to become an independent
FILED
and democratic nation. I hope to be able to come to Washington to
tell you all about these things."
The fact that this card, which was mailed in the ordinaryay
from Tokyo on December 30, has just arrived shows us how the ordinary
894.00B
mail is coming from Japan.
With all rood wishes.
ost sincerely yours,
Elbert D. Thomas
5
4828
8
11

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
FFB111948
My dear Senater Thomas:
Thank you for your letter of Jameary s is whtéh
894.00B/1-2848
you quote a message reseived from a member of the
Japanese Diet. The glst of that message is that the
their utmost to create aheos and confuslon and to
undermine the Amerlcan position and American objest-
ives in Japan.
There can be no question but that the Japamese
commanists are an active and disruptive minerity.
Fortunately they are still mumerically a small mimerity.
In the last general elections, beld in April ef last
year, only 4 eommunists won seats in the Diet, and it
is doubtful that their popular following has inereased
materislly since that time.
It is to be expected, however, that commmmist
influence in Japan will inorease if msans cammot soon
be found to restore Japan's peaceful produstive eapes-
ity and to raise its living standards above the paint
required merely to prevent widespread disease smd um-
rest. It is for this purpose, as well as fer te pr
pose of ending as soon as possible the burden of Japan's
support on the Amerloan people, that the Department of
CS/A
the Army has included in its ocoupied areas hndget
requests for the coming fiscal year a sum to be sxpemded
for the purshase of oapital materials to enable Japan
to smbark on a program for the achlevement of economie
self-support.
The Bonorable
Elbert D. Thomas,
United States Senate.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.88)
adetermins
mist three
mised and the goal ot a pea
Japan sahieved.
Sinserely yours,
For the Secretary of Stater
Charles E. Bohlen
Counselor
FEB 10 1948
ZIK
es
e-au
gwh
RAU
yyar
Ats
NA:RAFearey/hhc
FE
OE
February 4, 1948.
4828

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISIONOOR
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
APR - 2 1948
FOR JAPAN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, March 9, 1948.
No. 153
SECRET
le.
No Dist. by De/L
Not Processed.
3/23/45
cn
Subject:
Further Japan Communist Party Directives
Affecting the Occupation.
894.00B/3-948
Corrected as per
Eirgram A 43, 3/13/48
from Tokyo. Copyaltodal
HE.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch
No. 18 dated January 17, 1948 regarding a Communist Party
directive on repatriation of Japanese from Soviet con-
troled territory and to report that two additional
directives have come to the attention of the Mission.
On January 28, 1948 there was brought to this Mission
by a Japanese, personally unknown to any of the Mission
personnel, a document in Japanese which purported to be a
local Japan Communist Party directive issued by a branch
of the party in the town of Kurume, Fukuoka Prefecture.
Section of G-2, this Headquarters, for evaluation, it was 
directly to G-2 by the same person. In the opinion of
that section the document in question is a bona fide
1/
directive. A translation constitutes the first enclosure
to this despatch.
C
IS
The most significant portion of the document is the
reference to a resolution, presumably of the Executive
A
Committee of the Kurume branch of the party, that prep-
arations be completed for communizing electric plants in
Kyushu and for dealing with the American-Soviet question.
The stated intention with regard to the power stations in
Kyushu is to communize 90 percent within three months. To
combat American influence in Japan, intelligence information
on American officers and men and indoctrination of the
people regarding the ineffectiveness of American economic
assistance are called for, as also the very practical measure
of working to promote inflation.
A second
SECRET
MAY 12 1948
41
LAISON OFFICE

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 153
March 9, 1948.
-2-
SECRET
21
A second directive in the form of a Japan Comunist
Party order was made available to this Mission by G-2 Soction
of this Headquarters. The document, a translation of which
is forwarded as the second enclosure herewith, is reliably
believed to emanate from the national headquarters in Tokyo
of the Japan Communist Party. The subject is United States
policy towards Japan, and the obvious intent of the directive
is to combat American economic assistance to Japan on the
ground that credit extended to the Japanese Government en-
tails American economic enslavement and the mortgaging of
Japanese railroads and other assets.
The two directives appear to signify that the Japan
Communist Party is actively opposed to the objectives of
the Occupation and is bent on achieving political power
in Japan by the usual subversive methods.
Respectfully yours,
W.r.Beoace
V. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
√1.
Translation of Kurume
Communist directive.
2.
Translation of Japan
Communist Party Order
No. 3.
to Ongival.
800
3/23/48
JDEdwards:cs
SECRET

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.Eto Despatch No. 153
dated March 9, 1948 from the Office
of the United States Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled
"Further Japan Communist Party
SECRET
Directives Affecting the Occupation".
COPY
(Translation)
Issued from the Communist Headquarters on September
29, 1947.
1。
All Party members, acquire weapons and, with utmost
strength, complete your fighting positions.
2.
Get fully prepared to carry out thorough-going
strikes.
3.
In the Headquarters preparations for revolution with
violence have been completed.
4.
The advance-guards should exert their best efforts
for attaining the objectives of the Party at the cost
of their lives and to leave their names in history.
Directive No. 82 of Kurume Branch of the Japan Communist
Party
On December 2, a meeting was held at the house of
Nakajima, Chairman of the Committee. Seventeen members at-
tended the meeting, with representatives of Kumamoto and
Yatsushiro areas participating. Directives of the Head-
quarters were examined, and the meeting was resolved that,
under a three months plan, preparations be completed for
communizing all electric plants in Kyushu and for preparing
for the American-Soviet question.
As a means, Communist cells in power stations and in
transformer stations should be strengthened. Cells exist-
ing in 1.35 of the power stations at present should be
increased to 90% within two months, and all important posts
in power stations be occupied within three months, so that
no matter what happens, the whole of Japan may be blackened
under a single order, and the American forces may be put
into confusion.
Targets of occupation in Fukuoka Prefecture:
Thermal power station at Miike
Najima
Hisataka (T.N. - ?)
Nakajima returned to Kurume with the directive of the
Yoyogi Headquarters after a conference held on Sept ember 29.
The directive consists of Parts A, B, and C, each part being
accompanied by two or three explanatory documents. Though
their contents cannot be uncovered, Sections 1 and 2 of
Part A and Section 3 of Part C are known.
SECRET
Section 1

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. 1 to
Tokyo's 153
March 9, 1948
-2-
SECRET
Section 1 of Part A
As there is a very great number of repatriates from
Siberia landing on September 10, close contact with the
repatriates should be kept, and efforts be made for advanta-
geous use of information from Siberia.
Section 2 of Part A
Keep the Northern Fraternity Association (Hokuyu Kai)
absolutely secret. Even if the Party should fail in surface
propaganda, subterranean movement is possible through this
Association, and Japan can be converted into Communism to
the extent of 65%.
Section 3 of Part C.
Electricity is the source of living of the entire
population. If this is captured in the hands of the Communist
Party, the Communist movement is easy, and a quick action can
be taken in case of emergency. In the event of hostilities
being opened, the supply of electricity can be stopped to all
industries and coal mines. If efforts are made for internal
collapse, the American forces can be hindered.
In places given below, l00% of hydro-electricity should
be captured, and all switchboards controlled. If cells are
technically trained to such an extent that no one can contest
them, all can be controlled within this year, if done quickly,
and by the end of April at latest. The educational policy of
the Communist movement in power stations will be given by
November directive.
October 13. Shimashin (as secret members of the Party)
1. Working in South Kyushu.
2. Cells at Miike Power House 25%.
3。
The total surface members of the Japan Communist
Party in Kyushu is 3,700, of which 1,600 belong
to the Electric Industry Workers Union.
(DOKI Tsuyoshi) Black Lloyd glasses; Fat; Height 5 feet 4 to
5 inches; Carrying a briefcase; Weight 15 to 16 kan (TN-about
124-132 ibs.) Hunting cap; Round face; Grey single overcoat;
Looking like a black-market merchant. Cities of Matsuyama
(Shikoku), Niihama (Shikoku), and Amakusa (Kyushu). (Central
figure of Northern Fraternity Association (Hokuyu Kai),
formerly member of a labor union in Dairen).
1。
Assisting the liaison organs of the Communist
Party and the entry of the members into Russia.
2。
Expediting establishment of a national bloc
system, with a view to forming the Japanese
Chapter of Northern Fraternity Association
(Hokuyu Kai). Different from the local
committee of the Japan Communist Party.
SECRET
3. The headquarters

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. 1 to
Tokyo's 153
March 9, 1948
-3-
SECRET
3. The headquarters of the National Northern
Fraternity.
Association (Zen Nippon Hokuyu Kai) is located in
Niigata. October 20 (Directive of Headquarters).
As the Communist power grows, the reactionary
offensive of the American side is also increas-
ing. We should unite the working masses firmly
and widely, and fight on resolutely, for the
purpose of capturing power by rejecting America
which is ruling the world.
2.
Inflation should be promoted with 50% of the
total membership in each area. Make the people
realize that the American economic assistance
to Japan has no effect, and that economic re-
habilitation of Japan by democracy is impossible
as a whole.
3.
Watch the movement of the Occupation Forces.
Investigate the number of American officers
and men who are keeping Japanese women secretly.
Find out and report in detail their names, ages,
ranks, units, where they belong, etc.
4.
Select superior members from among the party
members in each area (40% to 60%). Let them
leave or be expelled from the party ostensibly,
and let them work as secret party members.
Those who leave or are expelled from the party
should be limited to 2% of the central staff
and 8% of the advance-guards.
The badge of an advance-guard:
Red
White
SECRET
About

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl.l to
Tokyo's 153
March 9, 1948
-4-
SECRET
About Northern Fraternity Association (Hokuyu-Kai)
The real body of Hokuyu Kai is the Japan Communist
Young Men's Advance-Guards. The Japan Communist Young
Men's Advance-Guards consists of the Communist Young Men's
League and young men belonging to Hokuyu-Kai. It appears
that they are smuggling weapons from Hokkaido and the
Siberian side of Japan, and that they are rearming them-
selves.
A subordinate of Doki lives in Amakusa. His name is
NAKAMURA Chiyozo, Chief of Shimako Branch of the Japan
Communist Party, Shimako-mura, Amakusa-gun, Fukuoka Ken.
He worked in Shinwa Railway Works at Dairen, and was
Chairman of Committee of Dairen Branch of North Eastern
People's League.
Yoyogi Headquarters.
The 6th national meeting is to be held in the latter
part of December. This is a secret conference, with the
following items on the agenda:
1. General situation and the current activities.
2。
The nature of revolution and question of
strategy.
3. Revision of the principles of activity.
4.
Revision of the principles of the Party.
5。
Revision of the Regulations of the Party.
6。
Election of Members of the Central Committee and
Members of Control Committee.
Copied:cs

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 153
dated March 9, 1948 from the Offiee
of the United States Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled
"Further Japan Communist Party
SECRET
Directives Affecting the Occupation"
COPY
Subject: Japan Communist Party Order, Document No. 3,
Bureau Fraction (U. S. Policy)
The following is a translation of subject, photo copy
of original obtained through a reliable source, is on file
in CIS.
SUBJECT: U. S. Policy Towards Japan
On 6 January, Secretary Royall of the Department of the
Army stated that Japan must be helped to become self-sup-
porting in order to serve as a barrier against all other
ideologies (TN: Shugi), and that it is necessary to adjust
the original U. S. Occupation policy toward Japan. Also,
Brigadier General McCOY, U. S. Representative to the Far
Eastern Commission, made the following general statement
on 26 January concerning U. S. Policy toward Japan: "The
U. S. is planning measures to have Japan become economically
self-supporting as soon as possible."
Reports from foreign sources stated that the Department
of Army is expected to make a request to Congress for
600,000,000 (of which sum 75% is to be loaned to Japan).
This will be for the fiscal year 1948-1949, commencing 1
July, and will be used as an economic reconstruction aid
fund for Japan and Korea.
(TN: Some characters illegible). The U.S. alone is
planning to permit Japanese industrialists to travel abroad,
furthermore, she is aiming at economic aggression with a
$600,000,000 credit to the Japanese (TN: Characters illegible).
In some circles the inflow of foreign capital is being dis-
cussed, but the present inflation is about to make a sudden
change due to reparations, and foreign loans. As collateral for
this loan, our railroad will be taken first. At present the
Japanese currency is exchanged on a one dollar to 200 Yen
basis on the international exchange. Such depreciation in
Japanese currency is one big reason for Japan's fall among the
other nations. After the railroad becomes collateral for the
loan received, it will be Americanized, and no matter how
fast the train travels between Tokyo and Shimonoseki, it
still is a "slave."
At present we are confronted with such problems as war
reparations, U. S. food aid, credit from foreign powers, and
inflation. When we think of the U. S. Policy towards Japan,
we can only see her plan to colonize Japan economically,
using goods and money. There are already American concessions
SECRET
within

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl.2 to
Tokyo's 153
March 9, 1948
-2-
SECRET
within Japan. We are good "bait" for the conquerors.
We must fight to the bitter end to prevent foreign
capital from entering Japan, as our country may be
colonized and we become the "second Philippines". Our
Party must at all times lead the people and fight this
evil.
All Regional Committees will first study the details
thoroughly, and oppose this credit to Japan, and endeavor
to develop the economic problem toward a peoples'
revolution.
Copies:cs
SECRET

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANC
3640
AIRGRAM
2
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
LAF
Date of Mailing: March 16, 1948
ACTION:DC
SECRET
lec'd: March 23, 8:44 a.m.
INFO:
DC/R
Secretary of State,
Veshington.
A-43, March 13, 1948.
Reference is made to despatch Io. 153 of March 9.
1948, subject "Further Japan Communist Party Direetives
Affecting the Occupation"
In the sixth line of the second paragraph "Civil
Information" should read "Civil Intelligonce".
SEBALD
800
JoLdwards: es
SECHET

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
NORTHEAST
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
APR - 2 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 153
Tokyo, March 9, 1948.
SECRET
Subject:
Further Japan Communist Party Directives
Affecting the Occupation.
The lHonorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch
No. 18 dated January 17, 1948 regarding a Communist Party
directive on repatriation of Japanese from Soviet con-
troled territory and to report that two additional
directives have come to the attention of the Mission.
On January 28, 1943 there was brought to this Mission
by a Japanese, personally unknown to any of the Mission
personnel, a document in Japanese which purported to be a
local Japan Communist Party directive issued by a branch
of the party in the town of Kurume, Fukuoka Prefecture.
Section of G-2, this Headquarters, for evaluation, it was
discovered that an identical paper had been made available
directly to G-2 by the same person. In the opinion of
that section the document in question is a bona fide
1/
directive. A translation constitutes the first enclosure
to this despatch.
The most significant portion of the document is the
reference to a resolution, presumably of the Executive
Committee of the Kurume branch of the party, that prep-
arations be completed for communizing electric plants in
Kyushu and for dealing with the American-Soviet question.
The stated intention with regard to the power stations in
Kyushu is to comnunize 90 percent within three months. To
combat American influence in Japan, intelligence information
on Amcrican officers and men and indoctrination of the
people regarding the ineffectiveness of American economic
assistance are called for, as also the very practical measur
of workin to promote inflation.
SECHIT
1 second

=== Page 30 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's No. 153
March 9, 1948.
-2-
SECRET
2/
A second directive in the form of a Japan Communist
Party order was made available to this Mission by G-2 Sestion
of this Headquarters. The document, a translation of whish
is forwarded as the second enclosure herewith, is reliably
believed to emanate from the national headquarters in Tokye
of the Japan Communist Party. The subject is United States
policy towards Japan, and the obvious intent of the direetive
is to combat American economic assistance to Japan on the
ground that credit extended to the Japanese Government en-
tails American economic enslavement and the mortgaging of
Japanese railroads and other assets.
The two directives appear to signify that the Japan
Communist Party is actively opposed to the objectives of
the Occupation and is bent on achieving political power
in Japan by the usual subversive methods.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1.
Translation of Kurume
Communist directive.
2.
Translation of Japan
Communist Party Order
No. 3.
In triplicate to the Department.
800
JDEdwards:cs
SECRET

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.to Despaten .
dated March 9, 1948 from th
of the United States Politieal
Adviser for Japan, Tekye, entitled
"Further Japan Communist Parby
SECRET
Directives Affecting the Cesupation".
COPY
(Translation)
Issued from the Communist Headquarters on September
29. 1947.
1.
All Party members, acquire weapons and, with utmost
strength, complete your fighting positions.
2.
Get fully prepared to carry out thorough-going
strikes.
3.
In the Headquarters preparations for revolution with
violence have been completed.
4.
The advance-guards should exert their best efforts
for attaining the objectives of the Party at the cost
of their lives and to leave their names in history.
Directive No. 82 of Kurume Branch of the Japan Communist
Party
On December 2, a meeting was held at the house of
Nakajima, Chairman of the Committee. Seventeen members at-
tended the meeting, with representatives of Kumamoto and
Yatsushiro areas participating. Directives of the Head-
quarters were examined, and the meeting was resolved that,
under a three months plan, preparations be completed for
communizing all electric plants in Kyushu and for preparing
for the American-Soviet question.
As a means, Communist cells in power stations and in
transformer stations should be strengthened. Cells exist-
ing in 1.35 of the power stations at present should be
increased to 90% within two months, and all important posts
in power stations be occupied within three months, so that
no matter what happens, the whole of Japan may be blackened
under a single order, and the American forces may be put
into confusion.
Targets of occupation in Fukuoka Prefecture:
Thermal power station at Miike
Najima
Hisataka (T.N. - ?)
Nakajima returned to Kurume with the directive of the
Yoyogi Headquarters after a conference held on September 29.
The directive consists of Parts A, B, and C, each part being
accompanied by two or three explanatory documents. Though
their cont ents cannot be uncovered, Sections 1 and 2 of
Part A and Section 3 of Part C are known.
SECRET
Section 1

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. l to
Tokyo's 153
March 9, 1948
-2-
SECRET
Section 1 of Part A
As there is a very great number of repatriates from
Siberia landing on September 10, close contaet with the
repatriates should be kept, and efforts be made for advanta-
geous use of information from Siberia.
Section 2 of Part A
Keep the Northern Fraternity Association (Hokuyu Kai)
absolutely secret. Even if the Party should fail in surface
propaganda, subterranean movement is possible through this
Association, and Japan can be converted into Communism to
the extent of 65%.
Section 3 of Part C.
Electricity is the source of living of the entire
population. If this is captured in the hands of the Communist
Party, the Communist movement is easy, and a quick action can
be taken in case of emergency. In the event of hostilities
being opened, the supply of electricity can be stopped to all
industries and coal mines. If efforts are made for internal
collapse, the American forces can be hindered.
In places given below, l00% of hydro-electricity should
be captured, and all switchboards controlled. If cells are
technically trained to such an extent that no one can contest
them, all can be controlled within this year, if done quickly,
and by the end of April at latest. The educational policy of
the Communist movement in power stations will be given by
November directive.
October 13. Shimashin (as secret members of the Party)
1. Working in South Kyushu.
2.
Cells at Miike Power House 25%.
3.
The total surface members of the Japan Communist
Party in Kyushu 1s 3,700, of which 1,600 belong
to the Electric Industry Workers Union.
(DOKI Tsuyoshi) Black Lloyd glasses; Fat; Height 5 feet 4 to
5 inches; Carrying a briefcase; Weight 15 to 16 kan (TN-about
124-132 lbs.) Hunting cap; Round face; Grey single overcoat;
Looking like a black-market merchant. Cities of Matsuyama
(Shikoku), Niihama (Shikoku), and Amakusa (Kyushu). (Central
figure of Northern Fraternity Association (Hokuyu Kai),
formerly member of a labor union in Dairen).
1。
Assisting the liaison organs of the Communist
Party and the entry of the members into Russia.
2.
Expediting establishment of a national bloc
system, with a view to forming the Japanese
Chapter of Northern Fraternity Association
(Hokuyu Kai). Different from the local
committee of the Japan Communist Party.
SECRET
3. The headquarters

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. 1 to
Tokyo's 153
March 9, 1948
-3-
SECRET
3. The headquarters of the National Northern
Fraternity.
Association (Zen Nippon Hokuyu Kai) is located in
Niigata. October 20 (Directive of Headquarters).
1.
As the Communist power grows, the reactionary
offensive of the American side is also inoreas-
ing. We should unite the working masses firmly
and widely, and fight on resolutely, for the
purpose of capturing power by rejecting America
which is ruling the world.
2.
Inflation should be promoted with 50% of the
total membership in each area. Make the people
realize that the American economic assistance
to Japan has no effect, and that economic re-
habilitation of Japan by democracy is impossible
as a whole.
3.
Watch the movement of the Cccupation Forces.
Investicate the number of American officers
and men who arc keepiny Japanese women seeretly.
Find cut and report in detail their names, ages,
ranks, units, where they belons, etc.
Select superior memb ers rom among the party
members in each area (40 to 60 ). Let them
leave or be expelled from the party ostenaibly,
and let them work as seeret party members.
Those who leave or are expelled fron the party
should be limited to 2  of the central staff
and 3 of the advanee-guards.
The badge of a: advance-ruard:
Red
White
SECRET
About

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl.1 to
Tokyo's 153
March 9, 1948
-4-
SECRET
About Northern Fraternity Association (Hokuyu-Kai)
The real body of Hokuyu Kai is the Japan Communist
Young Men's Advance-Guards. The Japan Communist Young
Men's Advance-Guards consists of the Communist Young Men's
League and young men belonging to Hokuyu-Kai. It appears
that they are smuggling weapons from Hokkaido and the
Siberian side of Japan, and that they are rearming them-
selves.
A subordinate of Doki lives in Amakusa. His name is
NAKAMURA Chiyozo, Chief of Shimako Branch of the Japan
Communist Party, Shimako-mura, Amakusa-gun, Fukuoka Ken.
He worked in Shinwa Railway Works at Dairen, and was
Chairman of Jomnittee of Dairen Branch of North Eastern
People's League.
Yoyogi Headquarters.
The 6th national meeting is to be held in the latter
part of December. This is a secret conference, with the
following items on the agenda:
1. General situation and the current activities.
2.
The nature of revolution and question of
strategy.
3.
Revision of the prineiples of activity.
4.
Revision of the principles of the Party.
5。
Revision of the Regulations of the Party.
6。
Election of Mambers of the Central Committee and
Members of Control Committee.
Copied:cs

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despate
dated March 9, 1948 from
of the United States Polit
Adviser for Japan, Tekyo,
"Further Japan Communist P
SECRET
Directives Affecting the Occupa
COPY
Subject: Japan Communist Party Order, Document No. 3,
Bureau Fraction (U. S. Policy)
The following is a translation of subject, photo copy
of original obtained through a reliable source, is on fil
in CIS.
SUBJECT: U. S. Policy Towards Japan
On 6 January, Secretary Royall of the Department of the
Army stated that Japan must be helped to become self-sup-
porting in order to serve as a barrier against all other
ideologies (TN: Shugi), and that it is necessary to adjust
the original U. S. Occupation policy toward Japan. Also,
Brigadier General McCOY, U. S. Representative to the Far
Eastern Commission, made the following general statement
on 26 January concerning U. S. Policy toward Japan: "The
U. S. is plannir measures to have Japan become economically
self-supporting as soon as possible."
Reports from forein sources stated that the Department
of Army is expe cted to make a request to Congress for
600,000,000 (of which sum 75% is to be 1oaned to Japan).
This wili be for the fiscal year 1948-1949, comeencing 1
July, and will be used as an econo.ie reconstruction aid
fund for Japan and Korea.
(TN: ome characters illegil le). The U.S. alone is
plannine to permit Japanese industrialists to travel abroad,
furthermore, she is aiming at economic aggression with a
$600,000,000 credit to the Japanese (TN: Characters illegible).
In some circles the inflow of foreign capital is being dis-
cussed, but the present inflation is about to make a sudden
change due to reparations, and foreign loans. As collateral for
this loan, our railroad will be taken first. At present the
Japanese currency is exchanged on a one dollar to 200 Yen
basis on the international exchange. Such depreciation in
Japanese currency is one big reason for Japan's fall among the
other nations. After the railroad becomes collateral for the
loan received, it will be Americanized, and no matter how
fast the train travels between Tokyo and Shimonoseki, it
still is a "slave."
At present we are confronted with stch  roblems as war
reparations, U. 3. food aid, credit from fortign powers, and
inflation. When we think of the U. S. Policy towards Japan,
we can only see her plan to colonize Japan economically,
using goods and money. There are already American concessions
SECRET
within

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
Enc1.2 to
Tokyo's 153
March 9, 1948
-2-
SECRET
within Japan. We are good "bait" for the conquerors.
We must fight to the bitter end to prevent foreign
capital from entering Japan, as our country may be
colonized and we become the "second Philippines". Our
Party must at all times lead the people and fi ght this
evil.
All Regional Committees will first study the details
thoroughly, and oppose this credit to Japan, and endeavor
to develop the economic problem toward a peoples'
revolution.
Copies:cs
SECRET

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
AIRGRAM
3640
2
FROM:
USPOLAD. Tokyo
LAF
Fil
Date of Mailing: March 16, 1948
ACTION:DC
SECHET
INFO:
Rec:d: March 23, 8:44 a.m.
DC/R
Secretary of State,
Vashington.
A-13, Harch 13. 1948.
894.00B/3-1348
Reference is made to despatch No. 153 of March 9,
1948, subject "Further Japan Communist Party Directives
Affecting the Occupation".
In the sixth line of the second paragraph "Civil
Inforuation" should read "Civil Intelligence".
SEBALD
800
JDEdwards: cs
SECRET
SECRET FILE
MAR 23
FILED
8
C

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.95)
PTK
arc
DIVISION
FAIRS
3.0.C.
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIBI
FOR JAPAN
JUN
No. 253
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DC/K
SECRET
Tokyo, Apri1 30, 1948
(For Department Use only)
SUBJECT: Reported Japanese Communist Party Espionage
on Japanese Repatriation Vessels.
39
ACTIVITY
740
tila:
The Honorable
MAY 1 7 1948
894.00B/4-3048
13
The Secretary of State,
PARTMENT OF STATE
1948MAY
Washington.
ir:
I have the honor to forward herewith, copy of
a Summary of Information prepared by Military Intelli-
gence Section of this Headquarters, which contains a
translation of Japan Communist Party Order, Document
No. 14, 1ssued on March 13, 1948, by the Cominform
Fraction, Central Committee of the Japan Communist
Party, and sent to the Responsible Person, Urban
Plans Department of each regional committee of the
party.
S
中
CRET FILE
This directive asserts that on the repatriation
vessels running to Nahodka and Maoka, one or two person-
nel of the former Japanese Army and Navy, traveling
under the guise of demobilization officials, are
engaged in investigating the sympathies of the crew
members, repatriates and demobilized persons, and in
exposing so-called "democratic" groups among the
repatriates. The directive instructs party members
sailing on repatriation vessels to make certain investi-
gations with regard to the work of these super-cargoes
and to attempt interference with such work by suitable
methods. An order is also given to take note of the
particulars of any ranking personnel of the repatria tion
vessels who may be regarded as "democratic", that is,
as communist personalities.
Respectfully yours,
FILED
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Summary of Information
Original and ozalid to Department.
1E0
5(D) or (E)
711.4
pnt of Stator
Authority NVD 70 008.1
9 OCT 1975
JDEdwards:mhp
ByCR/2NARS. Date
SECRET

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
SBCRET
Enclosure to Despatch No. 253
dated April 30, 1948 from the
Office of the Political Adwiser
For Japan, Tokyo, on the subject,
"Reported Japanese Communist
Party Espionage on Japanese
Repatriation Vessels".
(COPY)
APO 500
3 Apr11 1948
SUMMARY OF INFORMATION
SUBJECT: Japan Communist Party Order, Document No. 14
1. A photographic copy of Japan Communist Party
Order, Document No. 14, dated 13 March 1948, from the
Cominform Fraction, Central Committee, Japan Communist
Party, to the Responsible Person, Urban Plans Department,
each Regional Committee, was obtained by CIC agents from
a reliable source on 16 March 1948. This document, a
photographic copy of which is on file in CIS, bears the
initials of HIROYA Shunji, member of the Japan Communist
Party, Hokkaido Regional Committee Secretariat.
2. Following is a translation of Japan Communist
Party Order, Document No. 14:
Urgent Directive to Responsible Persons of
Seamen's Union Fractions.
As we enter April, repatriation of our comrades
who remain in the USSR will recommence and orders
to prepare the machinery and stand by have been
issued to party of the repatriation vessels, as
was already announced by the Central Shipping
Management Association.
This year, coordinating with the positive
repatriation hastening movement of overseas
brethren by the Communist Party, they are inclined
to send many of our fellow countrymen to their
country. Based on the report that there are
already complete arrangements in the USSR, the
mass movement of the Japan Communist Party is
growing positively along the line of the movement
to hasten repatriation of our brothers overseas.
While confident of the perfect execution of this
policy, investigation activities and movement plans
were issued according to directives issued anew by
the Far East Cominform.
It is desired that each Regional Committee,
1mmediately upon gathering the responsible persons
of the Seamen's Union Fractions in each Region, and
upon analyzing and discussing the details of the
following items, contact IMMEDIATELY the responsible
person for the Seamen's Union Fraction in each
District.
According
SECRET

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Enel. to
Tokyo's No. 253
Apr11 30, 1948.
-2-
According to conditions up to now, on the
repatriation vessels running to Nakhodka and Maoka,
one or two personnel from the Japanese Army and
Navy (mostly staff members, persons conneeted with
Headquarters, and the Military Police), are sailing
under the guise of demobilization officials; they
are engaged in detailed investigation of tendencies
of the crew members on the repatriation ships, repatri-
ates, demobilized persons, military action among
demobilized personnel in land now held by Soviet
units, economic and educational conditions, exposure
of democratic groups, Communists among the repatriates,
etc. They mubmit the reports on this either through
the Repatriates Assistance Branch Office in each land-
ing point or directly to the C.I.C. of the Ameriean
Army Department. Previously American-Japanese Nisei,
sailing as demobilization officials, have taken
unauthorized photographs of Soviet Occupied districts.
Upon transmitting these plans in detail con-
cerning the following investigation items and movements
to Party members sailing on repatriation vessels by
the Seamen's Union Fraction in each Region, it is
desired that you enforce them.
1. The comrades from the Regional Seamen's
Union Fraction sailing on each repatriation vessel
will investigate in detail the following:
a. Surveillance of activities of
demobilization officials.
b. A substantial investigation of the
demobilization officials (upon contacting the Shipping
Association Cell).
c. Definite, detailed investigation of
the liaison methods and contacts of demobilization
officials.
d. Details of the duties of each demobili-
zation official.
e. Details of the particulars of investi-
gations of repatriates on the ships.
2. Together with the above investigation,
whenever there is a chance, plan to interfere with
points of the investigative activities of the demobili-
zation officials by any methods.
3. At the Liaison Council of the Shipping
Association Cell leaders and the Seamen's Union
Fraction leaders immediately transmit to Headquarters
the registered address, present address, occupation,
mame and age of democratic personalities who might
come in line among the ranking ship personnel, such
as Captains, Chief Engineers, Office Chiefs, Surgeons,
etc.
Because
SECRET

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to
Tokyo's No. 253
April 30, 1948.
SBCRET
-3-
Because it is necessary that detailed reports
on the above be transmitted to Central Headquarters
1mmediately, please send a documentary report on
the above to the Central Urban Plans Department
NK - 1l, within five days after each repatriation
vessel comes into port. Submit this from (through)
the Seamen's Fraction, Responsible Person in each
port of debarkation. End.
SECRET

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 264
BBORST
(Por Depertment Use only)
SUBJECT: Report of Formatien of Far Fastern Block.
DEPARTMENT OFSATE
REGEVED
The Honorable
DIVIS D WCPHIC
The Seorotary of State,
NG
Washington.
STAIL
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose for the Department's imformation a
1/
Sopy of a summary of infomatiom prepared by G-2 seetien of this Head-
quarters, conoerming Japan Commanist Party Order No. i5, relative to
0B/5-648
the part to be played by the party in the formation of a so-called
Far kastern block.
The party order in question, dated March 19, 1948, 1s from the
Cominform Fractiom, Central Comittee of the Japan Communist Party,
to the responsible persom of the Cominform Fraction of eesh regional
committee. It is stated that its purpose is to apprise the regiomal
committees of the plan to form a Far Eastern Block in whieh the Japa-
nese Commumist Party will play a prominent part. A directive regard-
ing formation of the block is zsid to bave been received, but the
source is not mentioned. Countries participating in the Fur Rastern
Cominform, specifically China, Manchuria, Korea, Malaya, Burma, India,
Java, Mongolia, Sumatra, and French Indo China are mentioned as being
also members of the Far Eastern Block. The success of the Japen Com-
munist Party's labor attacks upon productiom is also lauded, and it
is asserted that this success shows the progress of the party's basic
ET FILE
policy, namely, "a struggle with American Fasciam in the Far Rast".
Respoctfully yours,
w. riSecace
. J. Sobald
Enclosure: /
Copy of Sumary of
Information.
original and ozalid to Departt
Copy to American kmbassy, Moscow
648
800C
JDsdwarda: oan
NAO
UBOHET

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
Emclosure to Despatch mo.
SECRET
of the United States Polisien
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, easi
"Report of Formatien of far 
Block".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR RAST COMMAND
Military Intelligence Soction, General Staff
APO 500
8 April 1948
SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:
SUBJECT: Japan Communist Party Order, Doeument No. 15
Counter Intelligence Corps agents obtained from a reliable source
on 22 March 1948 a photographic copy of a significant document concerning
the part to be played by the Japan Communist Party in the formation of a
"Far Eastern Blook." This document, photographic ∞py of which is om
file in CIS, is Japan Communist Party Order, Document No. 15, dated
19 March 1948, from the Cominform Fraction, Central Committee, Japan
Communist Party, to the Responsible Person, Cominform Fraction, Each
Regional Committee. It bears the initials of HIRoYA Shunji, member of
the Japan Communist Party Hokkaido Regional Comittee Secretariat. A
complete translation follows:
Matters concerning the Formation of the Far Rastern Block:
The swift development of world conditions, in the form of the
two grsat attacks in Eastern end Western Rurope, draws the eyes
and ears of the whole world. The fate of every country in the
world hangs in the balance.
As for the approaching great attack of the Far Eastern Cominform,
the New Democracy Struggle has swung into action through the
Democratic and Racial Fronts of the Japan Communist Party. Already
in Eastern Europe they have sueceeded in making e great Eastern
European block, callod the "Iron Curtein," by means of the New
Democracy Policy of the Cominform.
Now the anxiety of American Fascism betrays the tension be-
tween the United States and the USSR and has ended in revealing the
weakness of capitalism. The European Recovery Conference held under
the Marshall Plan will become an actuality in April. The spark is
being struck for struggle between Communiam and Capitaliam in Europe.
Robust Soviet Policy is making possible the realization of estab-
lishment of politieal rights in countries like France and Italy and
participation in the "Iron Curtain."
At this time we are trying to enliven activity in the far
Lastern Cominform to accompany the above, as you saw in Directive
NKIT - No. 7 of 17 February 1948. At the beginning of March the
Japan Communist Party diapatched by NVK (TN - Romaji meaning unknown)
and the leaderahip of the Japan Youth Communist League by KOJ
(TN - Romaji meaning unknown) has finally stirred up the attack
against America in the Fer East (sic).
The Japan Communist Party has just receiwed an important dirac-
tive on the formation of a Far Eastern Block composed of all people
and

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.94)
Emol ure to Bespatch
No. 264, May 6, 1948.
May 6, 1948
8BORST
and nations participating in the Far Eastern Comimform, covering
the broad areas of China, Mamchuria, Korea, Malaya, Burma, India,
Java, Mongolia, Sumatra, and Frenoh Indo-China.
The Japan Communist Party has develeped ome great labor attack
under the new Democracy by the use of Demoeratic Froats; it has
sent special Cemtral organisers to lead this greet attack in every
district; it has carried out industrial sabotage and destreyed ia-
dustrial establimhments threugh the use of the Productiom Revival
Struggle. This aho progress of the Party's basie poliey, which
is a struggle with Amerioan Fascim in the Far East. In this,
the great natiomal Labor Attack, oomcentrated around All Japan Cemman-
1cations (ZmrkI), and coordinated with the ecomomic struggle, has
hastened the formatiom of the Demooratie amd Racial Fronts.
The Japan Commanist Party has now assamed the great mission of
forming a mighty Far mastern Bleck. However we mast not be impat-
iont, as thie will bring ideological disanity and be a trap of the
reactionary elememts. The Japem Commumist Party is proceeding to
develop the present plans, while awaiting the political progress
of the formation of a mighty Far Kastern Blook. Because we have
assumed a great mission im the formatiem of the mighty Par Eastern
Blook and decided through the Japan Communist Party Cominform Plams
officials, who are to prepare for the formatiom of this Block, we
want you to know of this plan.
Names of the Japan Communist Party Far Kastern Block Formation
Proparation officials (Committee members):
Responsible Person:
TOKUDA Kyuich1
Members:
NOZAKA SanZo
MIYAMOTO Km J1
KURAHARA KOrOtO
SHIGA Yoshio
ITO Ritsu
SHIDA Shig00
KISHIMOTO Sh1G00 HASDAWA H1roab1
HATTORI Bakus1
End (or translation)
SEORIT

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
OF AMERICA
No. 299
U. S. Politieal Advia
SECRET
Tokyo, May 24, 1948.
(For Department Use Only)
UN OF
1948
DC
Subject: Communist Activities in Kyushu
DEPARTMENT GF STATE
RECEIVED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
SEP ST 1940
Washington.
OFFICE OF LIBRARIES
AND INTELLIGENCE ACOJISITIDY
3ir:
I have the honor to enclose a memorandum which was prepared by
Foreign Service Officer W. Henry Lawrence, Jr. concerning the activities
894.00B/5-2448
of communists in Kyushu. The information was gathered by him during a
trip to Kyushu in the iatter part of April 1948. Four profectures wore
visited, Fukuoka, Nagasaki, Kumamoto, and Kagoshima. The data and
opinions in the memorandum are based on conversations with officials of
the Military Government Teams and with representative Japanese leaders
in these four prefectures. Japanese interviewed included the governors
and chairmen of prefectural assemblies and a wide variety of individuals
from governmental, financial, educational, industrial, and labor circlos.
It is believed that tl:is report is of particular interest because
it is based cn a cross section of individuals who are in a position to
know and judge the activities of communists in Kyushu. Military Govern-
ECRET FILE
ment officials and Japanese leaders were in basic agreement, and the
Mission considers that the views presented are fundamentally sound.
With regard to the attitude of Japanese leaders, an observation of
Mr. MATSUO Chuei, the interpreter from this Mission who accompanied Mr.
Lawrence, is especially pertinent. Mr. Matsuo, who was employed by the
Department for many years in Formosa, stated that he noted a tremendous
difference in the attitude of the Japanese people as compared with pre-
war periods. Everywhere they were friendly, frank and cooperative,
instead of suspicious, taciturn, and cautious. This cooperative attitude,
aside from an obvious fundamental chan e in psycholozy, was in some
measure perhaps also due to introductions from members of the National
Diet and other Japanese in public life in Tokyo, which were presented to
the overnor and other leaders in each prefecture.
It is indicated in the memorandum that the Japanese people in Kyushu
regard that area as the first line of defense should war break out between
the Soviet Union and the United States, and in that event would align thm-
selves on the side of the United States. It is also stated that officials
in Kyushu believe the spread of communism has been slowed but cannot be
61949
SECRET
stopped

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.91)
Tokyo's 299
May 24, 1948
-2-
SECRET (For Department Use Only)
stopped without American aid in the rehabilitation of Japan. There is
also mention that many labor leaders are beginning to take a strong mti-
communist stand, but that communism appears to be increasing in agrioultural
areas. Special emphasis is placed upon the fact that the comunists, -
though few in number, wield a powerful influence, because they are well-
organized and have a definite program, and that there is an urgent nood for
educational material concermine democratic methods of handling labor pro-
Llems. It is further noted that reports concerning the proceedings of the
Allied Jounci. for Ja an are cunsidered to ive too much encouragement to
the comunists, but that there is no legal way of suppressing the com
aunists since they are allowed to function as a party.
V
It is stated in the menorandum thai there are few communists either
alen, stuuents, despite their curiosity in studyin it, or among repatriates
from Joviet areas, althouh indoctrinated while in joviet territory. It is
also statel that the conmunists are under constant serutiny by Military
overnment ax J xnese leaders; that there are fewer communists in important
 rs than fora rly because of orders to work behind the scenes; and that
some of the funas  omunist activities are derived from the sale of
smuld oods.
Respectfully yours,
J. J. Sebald
reles me:
Runorandum entitled "Jommunict
activities in Kyushu" iated
lay 4, 174.
i,zched
Filer
.apy
nte.
It. triplicate to the Jepartment.
Jopy to  rin abassy, Hoscow.
:00
fiLawrence,dr.:cs
(.1

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
SECHET
1948 from the offiee of 
(For Department Use Only)
Political Advieer fer J
"Communist Activities im
MEMORANDUM
May 24, 1948
SUBJECT: COMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN KYUSHU
The close proximity of Korea and China to Kyushu makes the Japanese
in Kyushu feel that they are the first line of defense against the on-
croachment of communism into Japan. This fear is especially evident in
Fukuoka Prefecture because of the large number of Koreans coming into
that area illegally.
Er. U Iloro Katsuzi, jovernor of Fukuoka Prefecture and member of
the Social Jemocratic Party, stated that the people in Kyushu feel that
if a war breaks out between Hussia and the United States their land may
become a battlefield. He and other of icials claim that most Japanese
dislike war and are anxious to live up to the snirit of the new consti-
tution which denounces war. There appears to be no doubt, however, that
if there should be a war the majority of Japanese people would align them-
selves with the United States although they realize that disarmament has
renuered tr en impot ent as far as fighting is concerned.
Spread of Communism Slowed
In eneral in Kyushu, both Military Government officials and Japanes
leaders expressed the belief that the spread of communism has been slowed
but by no means stopped. Mr. SUGIYAMA Sojiro, Govemor of Nagasaki
Prefecture, Jeclared that formerly Kyushu tended to be a conservative and
stable section of Ja an, but that the difficulties of gaining a livelihood
have made it a fertile round upon which communist activities thrive. As
iht be expected such activit ies are most effective in those industries
employin inlividuals of relatively low skill and education, such as the
mines, an. least effective in inlustries employins highly skilled workers,
such as the  lass factory of te lit subishi Chemical Company, Ltd.
Acrican nii ssential to top Spread of Communism
Jaoanese leaders are co: vinced that the rehabilitation of Japan and
a li her standa d of livin are essent ial if the tide of communism is to
be stemmed. These leaders feel that this can only be accomplished with
American aid, such as that recommended b Under Secretary of the Army
illiam F. raper. The latter's statements have iven reat encouragement
to the Ja anese pople although fears ae expressed occasionally that the
aid advocated will not materialize soon. For examole, Mr. INAkaZU Minoru,
Ihairman of the Fukuoka Prefectural Assembly an coal mine owner, declared
that the 'a anese economy might collapse if aid is too lon: delayed.
Lavor Assumin Anti-comunist Attitude
In labor unions, accordin: to the Labor Officer of the Fukuoka Military
iovernment Team, the comnunists are losin; round, because members are finding
thit communist tactics have not ro uced the results promised. Several
strikes directed by the communists have been lost. Another encouraging aspect
of the iabor oicture was the coment of Ir. TAl AkI Masayoshi, Prineipal of the
Kyushu Lator 'rainin School an hief of the ducational Department of the
Test ern Ja an sranchh of the General Federation of Japanese Lalor (Nihon Rodo
lodomei), tit only recently has he been ahl: to assume a stron. anti-com-
munist attitude. If he iit ione so previously, he cont ended that he would
hive had no schoel =cau e "any of is teacher and students would have
walked out on hum.
Another

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl. to Tokyo's 299
May 24, 1948
SECRET
Another indication that the tide of communistic influence is perhaps
reaching its peak, if it has not already attained it, are conditions in
the Takamatsu mine of the Japan Coal Mining Company, Ltd. This particular
mine, according to the officers of the company, is more communist-domineted
than any other, because the union leader, Mr. YAmAmoto Tsunekatsu, is an
unusually forceful and capable leader. Although he is a communist, he now
takes into consideration the interest of the union members first, has
abandoned his former tactics and is promoting production as well as the
welfare of the miners. It is of interest to note that this mine has been
meetin; its production quota regularly. Members of Mr. Yamamoto's union,
who are communists first and union memters second, are said to be giving
him considerable difriculty.
itill aother encouraging development reported by both the Labor
(Officer of the Fukuoka Military Jovemment Tean and Mr. EGUCHI Yoshimi,
Jhaiman of the Fukuoka Branch of Tanro Japan League of Coal Mine Labor
Unions (Nihon Tanko nodo Kumiai Domei), the communist-dominated Zen-sekitan,
All Japan Joal Industry Labor Union (Zen-Nihon Sekitan Kangyo Rodo Kumiai),
and neutral unions have been losin members steadily luring the last fow
months to Tanro, a union of ri htist tendencies (see footnote). Official
of Zen-sekitan have just aporoached Mr. Eguchi saying that they wish to
cooperate with fanro. This sudden outward change of tactics has aroused
suspicions as to the motives of Zen-sekitan.
Accordin to Mr. uchi, he pointed out that he believes in settling
differences with management  peaceful means, usin strikes only as a last
resort, whcreas the communists of ¿en-sekitan want to strike imediately
disrupting roiuction and forcin, a decision. He stated, however, that he
would continue discussions becaut Zen-sekitan support might be needed to
promote some of the over-all o jectives of labor, but that he would be on
his uari.
Jommunism irowin, . aster in Agricultural Areas
In ricultural areas, such a Kumamoto and Kagoshima, an impression
was gained that the communi ts are now gaining strength more rapidly than
in industrial areas, but have not yet attained a position comparable with
their status in the industrial areas. It is not believed that most farmers
are communists, but that they at influenced b whit collar workers in
farmers associations and by youn intellectuals who travel about the
countryside spreading communistic ideas. iverywhere one meets the claim
that at l.eart the Japanese people are not comnunists, but are only sus-
ceptitle to comnunist agitation b-cause of tie resent hand-to-mouth
cxistence of most of the Japanese oeople.
Few Comounists Nieli Great Power
anothr oint constantly brou ht out in discussi rswith both Hilitary
dov rnnnt ind Japanese officials was that the comaunists, although few in
nunber, wield imnense power because they have a rogram upon which they
concentrat:
Footnote: As of ebruary 194e, Tanro had 36 unions with 105, 352 members;
Zen sekitan i 1 unions with i, 74 nombers; and 1 neutral unions had
20,00 member:.
2

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. to Tokyo's 299
May 24, 1948
-3
SECRET
concentrate and because the Japanese people, not being a cobosive
of people united for a common purpose, are easily influenced. For
example, in the mine of the Japan Coal Mining Company, Ltd., two hundred
communists have succeeded in leading 9700 mployees. It was stated by
Many Japanese and Military Jovernment officials that the "fraction"
method of operation used by the communists (this Mission's despateh No.
209 dated March 31, 1948) frequently enables a small minority to contro1
the majority of union members.
Mr. HA.tADA Kanae, Chairman of the Yawata Iron Works Union of the
Ju an Iron and iteel Jompany, Ltd., stated that many of the comunists
are youn and have not been employed very long, but being university
raduates and intellectuals familiar with communist theory and doctrine,
are articulate and persuasive.
lir. KaNLGaE Yasaburo, Chairman of the labor union of the Japan
ubber Jompany at Rurume, sail that the roup of reactionaries in his
company, who are mostly young men of the kind described by Mr. Harada,
cause him reat ifficulty. He himself is a skilled laborer who is con-
vinced he knows the correct course for labor to pursue to improve its
condition. However, he has to spend a great deal of time arguing with
members of his union, and feels handicapped by his lack of knowledge of theory.
The reactionary group in his union also causes him trouble, because after
a course has been a reed upon and worked out with management this group
tries to prevent implementation of the agreement.
Urgent Need for Educational Material
There is evident a need for further education of labor along damocratic
lincs tc offset the communi t progiam. Union leaders and Military Govern-
ment oflicials concerned with lator problems cited the lack of publications
available to laborers and strongly stressed tre urgency of obtaining
publicat ions, particularly those from the United States, and of obtaining
supplies, especially paper, and equipment for the dissemination of dem-
ocratic ideas ani information.
Influence of Allied council in Spread of Communism
Governor Jugimoto of Fukuoka Prefecture stated that the Allied
Jouncil had bren helpful in establishing democratic principles, but also
lai created difficultics by ivin to∞ much encouragement to the communists.
He said that although he believes the Japanese people desire a strong policy
towuru communism there is no legal way of suppressin communism because the
communists are allowed to function as a party.
(This comment points out the difference in attitude
oi the Occupation and of the United tates Jovernment at
home toward the communists. The communists are allowed to
pursue their activities in Japan, but vigorously and in-
creasinly opposed in the United states.)
Few Jommunists Amon tudents
Mr. OKtDA Yuzuru, President of Kyushu University, claimed that the
number of comnuni ts amon, students is smail, but that many students are
intcrested, and since under the new constitution freedom of thought is
ranted, the: feel no constraint in examining what communism has to offer.
Mr. TAKEUCHI Toshiro.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl.to Tokyo's 299
May 24, 1948
-4-
SECRET
Mr. TAK UCHI Toshiro, a recent graduate who is held in high esteem by the
Civil Education officer of the Nagasaki Military Government Team, feels
that many students are at the crossroads and can go either in the direction
of communism or democracy. It is his opinion that most of them find the
latter more attractive.
Repatriates Not Communists
lir. Takeuchi further volunteered the opinion that many of his friends
who have been repatriated from joviet areas after receiving communistic
indoctrination are not communists. He stated that these repatriates feel
that the Russians have severely pre judiced their case by holding individuals
in Soviet areas. This view was reiterated in conversations with many other
individuals, for example, the head of the labor union of the Mitsubishi
Chemical Industries, Inc., at Yawata was stated to be completely anti-
communistic as a result of his experiences before repatriation from Soviet
areas.
Communists Under Scrutiny
Communists are under constant scrutiny by Military Government officials
an Jaoanese leaders. The comnunists are said by Military Government of-
l'icials to realize that their activities are carefully watched by the Oc-
cupation and, while pressing as hard as possible to attain their ends, ap-
pear to atteapt to avoid antagonizing occupation authorities for fear of
acceleratin; the rowing anti-conmunistic attitude of the Occupation. A
few months ao this opoosition led to orders from communist headquarters
to work behind the scenes so there are now fewer conmunists in important
positions in labor unions.
Japanese leaders have been helpful in reporting to the Occupation
the names of those kmown to be communists. There is also evident an ef-
fort to re ove these objectionable elements if at all possible. For
example, the Scenomics Officer of the Nagasaki Military Government Team
said that the Hu asaki Shipbuildin, Yard of the Mitsubishi Heavy Industry
Jompany, LItd. doesn't find it too hard to diseover an excuse to get rid
of kmown communists sinee they are mostly youn; men who are not good workers.
Sinu lel loods Source of Funis
It is claimed that some of the men who are traveling about Kyushu
prealin, communistie ileas have no visible means of support. From several
sources It has been learned that some of their funds are obtained by selling
lackmarket whiskey and a worm medicine smuggled from Soviet areas.
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
SECRET

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
JUn 2 - 1246
No, 299
U. 3. Politisal Adviser for Japan
FC
SORET
Tokye, May 24, 1948.
(For Department Use Only)
Subject: Communist Activities in Kyushu
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose a memorandum which was prepared by
Foreign Service Officer W. Henry Lawrence, Jr. concerning the activities
of communists in Kyushu. The information was gathered by him during a
trip to Kyushu in the latter part of April 1948. Four prefectures were
visited, Fukuoka, Nagasaki, Kumamoto, and Kagoshima. The data and
opinions in the memorandum are based on conversations with officials of
the Military Government Teams and with representative Japanese leaders
in these four prefectures. Japanese interviewed included the governors
and chairmen of prefectural assemblies and a wide variety of individuals
from governmental, financial, educational, industrial, and labor circles.
It is believed that this report is of particular interest because
it is based on a cross seetion of individuals who are in a position to
know and judge the activities of communists in Kyushu. Military Govern-
ment officials and Japanese leaders were in basic agreement, and the
Mission considers that the views presented are fundamentally sound.
With regard to the attitude of Japanese leaders, an observation of
Mr. MATSUO Chuei, the interpreter from this Mission who accompanied Mr.
Lewrence, is especially pertinent. Mr. Matauo, who was employed by the
Department for many years in Formosa, stated that he noted a tremendous
difference in the attitude of the Japanese people as compared with pre-
war perlods. Everywhere they were friendly, frank and cooperative,
instead of suspicious, taciturn, and cautious. This cooperative attitude,
aside from an obvious fundamental change in psychology, was in some
894.008/52448
measure perhaps also due to introductions from members of the National
Diet and other Japanese in public life in Tokyo, which were presented to
the governor and other leaders in each prefecture.
It is indicated in the memorandum that the Japanese people in Kyushu
regard that area as the first line of defense should war break out between
the Soviet Union and the United States, and in that event would align them-
selves on the side of the United States. It is also stated that officials
in Kyushu believe the spread of communiam has been slowed but cannot be
SECRET
stopped

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's 299
May 24, 1948
SECRET (For Department Use Only)
stopped without American aid in the rehabilitation of Japan. There is
also mention that many labor leaders are beginning to taks a strong ati-
communist stand, but that communiem appears to be inereasing in agrisultural
areas. Special emphasis is placed upon the fact that the eommumimts, al-
though few in number, wield a powerful influence, beeause they are well-
organized and have a definite program, and that there is an urgent need for
educational material conoerning democratic methods of handling labor pro-
blems. It is further noted that reports concerning the preseedings of the
Allied Council for Japan are considered to give too much eneouragment to
the communists, but that there is no legal way of suppressing the com-
munists since they are allowed to function as & party.
It is stated in the memorandum that there are few munists edther
among students, despite their curiosity in studying it, or mong repatriates
from Soviet areas, although indoctrinated while in Soviet territory. It is
also stated that the communists are under constant sorutiny by Military
Government and Japanese leaders; that there are fewer communists in important
positions than formerly because of orders to work behind the seenes, and that
some of the funds for communist activities are derived from the sale of
smuggled goods.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Memorandua entitled "Communist
Activities in Kyushu" dated
Hay 24, 1948.
In triplicate to the Department.
Copy to American Embassy, Moscow.
8000
WiLawrence,Jr.:cs
SECRET

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.89)
Form DS-302
(7-2-46)
DIVISION OF
ACTION CO
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPHBRANCH
NORTHEASTIASIAN AFFAIRS
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PLAIN
7
Control 6846
Action
FE
Infe
Rec'd July 20, 1948
P
10:04 a.m.
SAM
Office ot
EOR
FROM:
MOBSoW
A  
OCD
CTA
TC
Secretary of Stete
OPD
1 State
F
NO
3
1370, July 20
PoB
1TR
Soviet press u)y 2o varrled brief  orden Tass dispatcb
D
echcing Reurer s report of artemptei eesassination
894.00B/7-2048
Seavesary Cenera Japanese Commuciss Furty Fokuda.
Seut Dept 37e, mepeated Tokyo 28: Dept pass Tokyo.
SNIIH
RB-ERA
NOTE
Re 1  Pkyo 220-48, 10 30 .., W0-M
FLED
i 0
3
8
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION CF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.87)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS A
JUC
DEPARTMENT O
AIRGRA!
2
C. HFIDE AL
ASTION
USPO.AD,
FE
Dated:
July 20, 1940
I/R
2h
E R/X
Date of mailing:
July 21, 1948
OLA
Soorotary of Stuto,
Rou'l: 11y 23, 1948
CTA
Fo
Was lingtou.
8:54 a.m.
A-) 2, July 20, 1948
894.00B/7-2048
An ttemps was made so assaasinas, Tdul: Kyuichi, Seeretary
G. re Japan Commur!st larty, cu Ju'y 19, 48, when ho was
d: ivor! g an addrest in the aiy of Sage, S Prefecture. A
ho. e ma., bomb, beli, ved t.o have cont:ined d amite and nther
A. stanc s, was throvn on the spuakers' platiorm, axploded and
i. licts. about thirty-se en cuis on " kula'r hooy. His condition
i repaed as not riour and o ie : pesten o rosover within a
0.04.
Sto tly after tre in1.eut, xoa chiro, nown anti-Communist,
prreentel hirself a the ige Po ice iation rd confesaed to the
a: ampt: agsasine.ion.
Fu. her datail und o mer iir 'ollow
6.BAL
6111946
FILED
8. 8
PERMAENYROPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
工

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
CATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STÄTE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
RESTRICTED
Control 7303
7
Red'd July 21, 1948
Actiou: EUR
9:34 a.m.
Inro :
P
SAM
FROM:
Moscow
FE
EUROFEAN AFFAIRS
OI.A
MESSAGE CENTER
TO:
Secretary of State
CIA
OFFICE OF
C
NO:
1382, Ju1y 21, 10 a.m.
POS
PA
EURX
DCR
Sov et press July 21 carried following telegram to
894.00B/7-2148
Cencca: Conmittee Japanese Communist Party:
cc os lenrned with indignation of odious attempt of
covenptible sireltnp enemics of Japanese people on
ife our Cchrade Tok da- prominent leader Japanese
wor1 c38.
CC cPsu expressed to Co apanese Communist Party its
friend y ccndolences and hopey Cowrade Tokuda will soon
retuir to his fruitf activity of constructing new
demoeratlc and pence-Jeving sapan.
Signed-Secretary co Grsu Glorgi Ma lenkov.
A)s mest bapers cury lec Tocyo, Paris and Rome Pass
disoecches sunmar lsin ppes is. varr ings and proteats
of apunese Coumun st arty and yapathizers, inoluding
chayges bs usfta tha ues attacx reveale more clearly
ths s vavaongers are  epirers these crimes (Togliatti
8
1 loda)
Der tment paso Tokye  19.
SMIPH
NOT: ve 1ayeo so Toryo 7/21/48 10 a.m. MCP
WPS.MER
FILED
271948
RESTRICTED
王
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 461
Tokyo, July 22, 1948
RESTRICTED
N . 
AUG 1 U 1945
 OF STATE
Subject: Tranmmission of book entitled Eikhteen Years in Prison.
STATE
3
E0F
Secretary of State,
5EN
≥T
Washington.
894.00B/7-2248
CE
27
c
Sir:
PA
2
3
I have the hongr to forward herewith in single copy a translation
of the memoirs of TOKUDA Kyuichi and SHIGA Yoshio, entitled Eighteem
Years In Prison, made by the Allied Translator and Interpreter Section,
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
Mr. Tokuda has been Secretary General of the Japan Communist
Party since its revival at the end of the war, and is currently a
member of the House of Representatives. He was one of the original
founders of the first Japan Communist Party in l922 and was a prominent
leader in the Party until his arrest in the great communist round-ups
in l928. Mr. Tokuda remained in prison until his release in October
1945. As Secretary General, Mr. Tokuda is regarded as the real "boss"
of the party today. He maintains party discipline with an iron hand,
but his demands for a so-called "revolution by violence" have frequently
brought him into conflict with other top party leaders who advocate
achieving communist ends in Japan by more expedient and less provocative
methods.
Mr. Shige is now a mamber of the Party's Central Committee, and
CS/A
held a seat in the House of Representatives until his defeat in the
national elections of April 1947. Mr. Shiga was also one of the
original founders of the first Japan Communist Party. He is one of
the few communist leaders today who can boast an education at one of
the imperial universities. Mr. Shige is essentially an intellectual
and has been responsible for preparing interpretations and commentaries
on Marxian doetrine.
The memoirs conclude with the release of the authors from prison
in October l945 and are therefore primarily of an historical interest.
Detailed informetion concerning the early history of the Party in the
1920's is presented, but written entirely from the biased viewpoint
of the two authors. Accordingly, considerable space is given to the
so-called betrayal of the party by SANO Manabu (Gaku), NABEYAMA Sadachika
and others who renounced communism while in prison in the early 1930's.
It is
右西
RESTRICTED
5
CO

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's No. 461
July 22, 1948.
RESTRICTED
-2-
It is significant to note the suthors' frequent referenee to the
close liaison the party mmimtained with the Comintern and the material
support and guidance provided by this international commanist ageney.
From this account of the carcers of two leeding Japenese commmmists,
it is plain that Mr. Tokuda and Mr. Shiga, like almost all the top
leaders of the present party, have had considerable erperience in under-
ground operations.
The book also affords an insight into the psyohological and physical
factors which go into the making of confirmed communists.
Respectfully yours,
W.r.Benece
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
allyv
Book entitled Eighteen Years
in Prison.
Original and ozalid to Department.
020

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
R
EIGHTEEN YEARS IN PRISON
By TOKUDA Kyuichi and SHIGA Yoshio
94.00B
Published: 15 February 1947
First Edition: 10 February 1947
Second dition: 5 March 1947
Publisher: ATSUO Seikichi
JIJI TSUSHINSHA (JINI PreSS)
TOKVOTO, KOJD ACHI Ku, HIBIYAKOEN, 2
Printer: HOSOKAA Printing Shop
TOKYO to, KYORASHI Ku, GINZA
NTCHI, 6-2

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
Full Translation of Paper Bound Book Entitled
"EIGHTEEN YEARS IN PRISON
by
TOKUDA Kyuichi
and
SHIGA Yoshia
1946
Document No. 36388
PREFACE
The elimination of egoism is of the utmost importance to
Communists. This means true devotion for the sake cf laborers, farmers,
and the common people. Cne must not covet soc ial position of any kind,
much less entertain hopes of becoming a Premier or a Midas. A revolu-
tion cannot be accomplished if there remains even a vestige of ac-
quisitiveness.
The complete elimination of egoism is easier said than done,
but, as long as one professes to be a Communist, one must constantly be
prepared to sacrifice himself. Indeed, it is out of such an attitude
that the courage necessary for true Communists and for revolutionists
will spr ing. Moreover, from this true appreciation will arise, the faculty
of discernment will become more sound, and one's vitatlity will increase.
If this mental attitude is firmly fixed, one will be quick to perceive one's
mistakes and set oneself on the right track when one errs in thought or
action as we all do occasionally. Thus, even if occasional mistakes are
committed on side issues, fundamentally one will be able to traverse the
straight path without faltering.
As lon as one is to live as a revolutionist, it is inevitable
that he shoulder a multitude of troubles and hardships; yet even in the
midst of these difficultires, the cfore-mentioned mental attitude will banish
all anxieties and allow one to remain an untroubled and cheerful optimist.
The way of the Communists is just such a way. We, as Communists,
have traversed such a road, encoura ing one another. We believe that this
is the most desirable path for the Japanese who are now facing a crisis.
"urthermore, since this is the true, carefree, and cheerful way, it is
open to all. We believe that great pleasure cen be ga ined by following
this path as Communists. We have committed a portion of our experiences to
writing for three reasons. (Publisher's Note: This book "EICIITEEN YEARS
IN PRISON" was compiled from a series of four interviews held with TOKUDA
(
) and SHIGA (
) at the invitation of the JIJI Fress
in February 1946. The tvwo men retraced their memories and supplemented
each other in facts regarding the Party history; hovever, they are all in-
cluded in TOkUDA's chapter for the sake of convenience.
TOKUDA Kyuichi
SHIGA Yoshio

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
Document No. 36388
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
Part One:
by TOKUDA Kyuichi
Little Defender of Justice
The Dutiful Son
The First Strike - In Grade School
From a Student at the Seventh Higher School to
the Assistant Teacher
Clerk in the Gun Office
Return to Tokyo
Participation in the Rice Riot
My Two Months as Probationary Judge
My Days as a Lawyer
Organizing the Japan Communist Party
The Unification of the Labor Front and the
Second Party Conference
Struggle Against Military Education at Waseda
University
Young Sympathizers
The Great Earthquake and ICHIGAYA
The Prison as a Place to Study
Senior Members' Theories on Party Dissolution, and
the Strengthening of the Party
Arrested on 15 March
Betrayal by SANO Manabu and Others
Court Struggle
ABASIRI and Ice Confetti
Farming Within the Prison Grounds
Flowers at the Prison
Sewing and Spinning
Struggle Against Var of Aggression
The Oppressed Understand Best
Kindhearted Prisoners
The Case of Comrades Who Died in Prison
Read ing in Prison
On Becoming a Weather Expert
CHIBA, KOSUGE, TOYOTALMA and FUCHU
Final Days of the War
Conclusion
Part Two:
by SHIGA Yoshio
Childhood Days
I Participate in the Rice Riot as a Middle School
Student
The First Higher School, and Ly Embrac ing the
Student Movement
March Fifteenth
Prison is the Birthstone of Revolutionists
Even Steel Needs Tempering
The Weakening of the Dissolutionists
Court Strugele
Treacheries of SANO Manabu and Others
Surrounded by Ice
Weaving Salmon Nets
The Kite and the Crow
The Four Seasons as Seen in Prison
War, Prison and Priest

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
Document No. 36388
The Spring Breeze After Seven Years of Absenes
Clam Soup and Handcuffs
I Meet SANO and NABLYAMA
The Precautionary Detention Home
The Air Raids
The Ideology of "Public Management" Originates in
the Detention Home
The Gate of Freedom

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
Document No. 36388
LITTLE DEFENDER OF JUSTICE
I was born in 1894 in OkINAWA Ken, KUNCHan Gun. NaGO Mura. Ex-
traordinary circumstances led me to become a Communist. My grandfather:
was a shipping agent who started as a sailor during the clan period in
KAGOSHIMA. His business meant dropping anchor in the RYUKYU's. pur-
chasing various foreign articles very cheaply and reselling the in
KAGOSHIMA, MOJI and OSAKA. These shipping agents had mistresses in the
RYUYKYU's. My father was the son of such a man from KAGOSHIMA and his
mistress, a RYUKYU woman. My mother was also the child of a RYUKYU
mistress and the chief of the shipping agents. My grandmother was the
daughter of a destitute farmer, and the home of her birth was little
better than a pigsty. She was sold into prostitution, and eventually
became my grandfather's mistress. My mother, too, was born under
similar circumstances. My grandmother on the distraff side was born
to indigent artisans and two of the three girls in the family were
sold into prositution. She was born into this miserable household and
was sold since there was no money with which to pay the taxes nor no
articles to sell. This was dur ing the KEIo period, and it is said that
the price for a child of 15 or 16 was approximately 20 yen in Japanese
currency. I understand that in extreme cases. they were sold for about
10 yen. Even in my youth, the prices ran from about 30 to 50 yen.
During my childhood, my grandmother on the distaff side sold
DOROAI (Translator's Note: Dye precioitated from indigo by lye) and
engaged in usury. This usury resul ted in loaning money to poor femilies
in 5 yen amounts to be paid in l00 days at a monthly interest rate of
10 perdent. At the same time, she sold DOROAI, a dye for SATSUMA and
KURUME KASURI (Translator's Note: splashed or spotted fabrics or
patterns). Since this DOROAI decreased in weight while being conveyed
from RYUKYU to KYUSHU, she used this as an excuse to cheat the farmers
by buying it cheaply and resold it at a terrific price.
From the time I was 13, I kept the accounts on which the cheating
in weights was done. Since our family was poor, up to the time of my
graduation from middle school, I took care of all the miscellaneous
domestic effairs for my grandmother's household, including secretarial
matters, accounting and even went out to collect payments. At the same
time, I was going to school but managed to attend only 20 days out of
the month. I entered middle school at the age of 13, but even at this
early age, I was thoroughly familiar vith the workings of such things
as usury through which farmers, laborers and the poor were being hood-
winked and exploited. Consequently, campassion for the laborers and the
farmers on the one hand and hatred for all those, including my grand-
mother on my mother's side, who engaged in such ignominaus dealings,
on the other hand. steadily assailed my young mind. I spoke ill of my
grandmother to those who came to borrow money. I explained to them in
earnestness, yet not without humor, that it would be unwise to borrow
money from a usuress such as she; that they definitely should not borrow
because they would, without question, be squeezed ury; and that in a
short time I would earn enough money to help them all.
I was a serious little defender of justice and was, therefore, the
object of my grandmother's intense hatred. She would not buy shoes for
me during my middle school days, and so I borrowed worn-out shoes from
my uncle and wore them only during the gymnastic period. However, these
shoes were lerge and floppy and I suffered from blisters and corns. Even
though she realized these things, my grandmother would not lift a finger
to help me. I ordinarily walked to and from school in my bare feet be-
cause there was nothing else I could do. When I absolutely had to I
wore sandals or clogs which were kept at home, but each time I did so my

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
Document No. 36388
grendmother took it out on me. Since I was brought up in such en
environment, I was deeply resentful of the oppression and injustice
towards the poor. I was keenly aware of the fact that I could not live
a truly happy and honest life in such a society. However, shortly there-
after, I experienced a political awakening and a bright ray broke through
into the depths of dark resentment. The direct impetus was NAkAE, Chomins.
"ICHINEN YUHAN" (Translator's Note: "Over A Year and a Half"). At that
time, a very progressive man by the name of KANESHIRO, Tokio was staying
with my grandmother. Formerly a teacher, he was at the time a member of
I was deeply impressed by this book which sharply criticized the despo-
tism of the Meiji Government and attacked the incompetence and corruption
of ITO and the YAMAGATA faction. When I was 17, the same person lent me
KOTOKU, Shusui's "The Essence of Soc ialism". My first introduction to
socialism was through this book with quotations from MARX and ENGELS
printed in bold type.
THE DUTIFUL SON
I was extremely devoted to my parents during my childhood and I
hear that even today the people of the villege speak of my filial piety.
I was especially dut iful toward my mother end my grandmother on my father's
side, but I loathed my grandmother on my mother's side as I have mentioned
earlier.
My mother, in marrying my father, found herself at odds with my
grandmother. The reason was that my father was a heavy drinker, a man who
was incapable of saving any money. and the type of person who would give
the shirt off his back if anyone asked for it. Therefore, he was not ac-
ceptable in my grandmother's eyes. My father being such a man, we were
always poor so my grandmother had no love for my mother. It seems that
she tried many times to break up the marriage, but she did not succeed.
Such was the situation, and for my part, my hatred for my grandmother only
tended to deepen my love for my mother. The roads are poor in the place
where I wes forn and there are places where one must wade across rivers
because there are no bridges across them. I always carried my mother
across such places on my back. Since it is uncommon to carry one's mother
on one's back, I was re arded as a dutiful son; in truth, my love for my
mother was boundless.
Next to my mother, the object of my affection dur ing my childhood was
my younger sister. There is still a scar on the back of my head, the
momento of a fall into a river bed full of gravel when I was trying to
pick some flowers for her when I was 7. The gravel embedded itself in my
head and I suffered reat pain since it had to be pulled out; however. I
went alone to the doctor and had it attended to without crying beceuse the
people of KAGOSHIMA believe in Spartan discipline and I would have been
reprimanded if I had shed any tears. I also fractured my hip when I was
12. This was when I lost my balance and fell headlong from a banyan tree
while playing with my sister who was on the ground. Even now, my hips
give me trouble.
My grandmother on my father's side was also born to indigent farmers,
but she was totally different from my other grandmother and was an un-
selfish, soft-witted and entle woman. Since my father was a child of her
late years, he was showered with her love. After I was born, this love was
focused on me, and although we were poor, I never felt the want of her
love. y ranwmother was fond of cookine and whenever he went to ather
plants, catch frogs or river fish to use for her cooking. she always took
me. I was clso extremely fond of this grandmother and was more dutiful

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
Documont No. 36388
since she failed to give her children one.
THE FIRST STRIKE - IN GRADE SCHOOL
I was brought up by two such grandmothers, one good and the other
hood. My sympathies towards these powerless people and my instinct to
defend them from unjust oppression were aroused in my early years.
principal was not a native of the RYukYuS and like all the teachers who
were imported to the RYUkYUS, he was cruel and evil. Even at school.
we were given the Spertan education of KAGOSHIivA, and were struck. kicked
and insulted. This aroused our antipathy and so we went on strike. It
started during the end of our physical education class. Our instructor
left without giving us the order Dismissed", so we stood our ground.
telling the others not to dissemble because we weren't given the order.
and returned to our homes. We went on strike for about three days
threatening that if they were going to beat and kick us and speak in-
sultingly of the people of the RYUkYUS, we wouldn't return; however, the
teachers finally cave in and became moderate. Since I was the class
president all during my grade school years, I was, inadvertently, placed
in a position of leadership in this strike.
In middle school we were not provoked to the point of striking.
However, I was extremely unruly and constantly quarreled with the teachers.
Once Prince and Princess KAN-Ii visited the HYUKYUS. On that occasion the
residents were made to meel all along their itinerary and all the middle
school students were made to carry rifles and guaru their route. My im-
pressions of Trince N-lN upon seeing his face were not unfavorable, but
his wife had so much powder on hor small face that it looked as if it had
been whitewashed, and she resembled a white mouse. I thought that it was
unnecessary to wel come such a person so royally, but when I expressed such
an opinion to a few, it created quite an issue and I would have been ex-
pelled were it not for all those vho came to my rescue.
Since the nejority of midule school teachers were not natives, of the
RYUkYUS, and regarued us vith treat contempt, we always defied them
unitedly. The majority of these teachers hed passed some haphazard
official examination an drifted to the nYUaYUS; hence, they had inferior
qualiricetions. Only 2 or out of 1 or 16 teachers had traduated from
Higher Hormel School, and & university raduate woulu have immediately
become the principal or the head teacher upon his arrival.
Among these teachers, I thought thet NoliA, Seiji, who later became
the president of the KODANSiA, was the worst. NuMA was my Chinese classics
teacher during the first year of middle school, but he knew practically
nothing about the subject. In the classroom he did nothin but talk about
IS.. IDOMARU, tell stories, or recite ANIWABUSHI. Moreover, he took up
querters in the red-light district and would come to work each day in an
inebriated condit ion. he was also one of those who had taken some
specious teacher's examination and had drifted to this place. He must
have been makin 40 or 0 yen & month. Durine those days it cost only 10
yen a month to stay ut the brothels, and for onl, 20 yen or so he was able
3

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
Document No. 36388
to have a ricksha to and from the school, a distance of one RI (2.44 miles);
drink to his heart's content, and have women, so his salary was more than
sufficient. Therefore, the RYUKYUS must have been a perfect paradise for.
people like him, but to us it was hell.
FROM STUDENT AT THE SEVENTH HIGHER SCHOOL
TO ASSISTANT TEACHER
Upon my graduation from the Okinawa Middle School, I entered the
Seventh Higher School after a year of preparatory school in TokYo; how-
ever, due to lack of funds I stayed for a while with my uncle who happened
to be my mother's half-brother and he looked after me. This person was
not very mean but his mother was extremely ill-natured, and contending
that I was a child of a RYUkYU woman, she objected to my eating at the
same table and treated me like a servant in every manner. They had a
bathroom, but talking the attitude that I was offensive, she would not even
let me take a uath, so I went to the public bathhouses in town. Finelly.
I could no longer bear such indignities and went into the dormitory, but
then financial difficulties overtook me. So after just a year of Higher
School, I returned to the RYUKYUS in 1913.
In Higher School there was an Engl ish instructor by the name of
MATSUMOTO. This person always looked down on the people of the RYUKYU
and whenever I asked a question he would say with venom, "You have your
nerve asking me, you RYUKYU bastard". Finally, I lost my temper and
started a strike. I started the strike by inciting others to rise up and
fight the indignities committed against those of the RYUkYUs, and finally
drove the man to the Second Higher School in SENDAI. I thought of Higher
Schools as worthless institutions since they placed emphesis only on
languages. Therefore, I abandoned my studies and pursued my own interests.
I devoted myself to the study of socialism. At that time, "MANCHO HO"
carried LORITA, Ariaki's "Dispatch from GERMANY" and ISHIKAWA, Sanshiro's
"Dispatch from FRANCE", besides constant news about activities regarding
socialism, therefore, I never fail ed to read it. Even after my return to
the RYUKYUs, I continued to read "MN HO HO", if nothing else. I lived in
the RYUkYUs for approximately four years, teaching at the grade school as
an assistant teacher or working as a clerk at the Gun office.
The grade school teachers were only paid about 10 yen a month. I
could not live on this and since I was an assistant teacher there were
no possibilities of my achievin a better position or salary to ease
living conditions. Consequently, I aid not intend to remain & teacher for
long. I did not auhere to the textbooks, but taught according to my own
system. The textbooks at that time were centered around the concept of
loyalty and patriotism, but instead of taking up these subjects, I taught
chiefly the modern literary works of TOLSTOY, DOSTOEVSKI, IBSEN and others,
and stressed Russian literature in particular. I placed great emphasis
upon the tenet of humanitarienism as taught by ToLSToY, end the fact that
degeneration is a crime arising from sloth. I often told such stories
as "Ivan the Fool".
CLERK IN THE GUN OFFICE
Subsequently, I became a clerk in the Gun Office and, at the time
handled payments of delinquent taxes. Since land holdings were extremely
small in the RYUkYUs, the taxes often amounted to a mere one or two sen.
Whenever a default of payment occurred, I would be sent out to adjust

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
Document No. 36388
these delinquencies, receiving some 2 yen per night for travel exp
Actually, it would have been much simpler to write off the deling
with the travel expenses since scores of delinquency cases could be
justed with one yen. Any other way would have been very troublemome nd
too pitiful for these poor people.
This be ing the situation, I assembled the people of the village and
spoke to them. I told them that this was such a ridiculous mathod of
taxation and if they paid on time it would be a saving to them since it
would eliminate the cost of my making such trips. As a method of induce-
ment, I sent out letters of appreciation to those who did pay on time.
There was another amusing incident which occurred while I was employed
at the Gun Office. The accounts of the Gun Office were in a state of chaos.
Upon examining them minutely. I found that the unit purchase prices of
commodities were outrageously high. Rice bowls which ordinarily sold for
10 sen were listed as 1 yen or 1.50 yen. Thinking this was absurd. I
gathered the merchants and submitted the commodities for auction. Where-
upon, as I had expected, tho se priced at 1 yen and 1.50 yen sold for only
10 sen. However, the bidders peid cash for them. In this manner, in-
stead of finding that the budget for the fiscal year was insufficient.
even necessitating drawing from the budget of the following year, we found
that we were able to make up all past payments, to pay for all expenses
of that year with the year's budget, and even to purchase new quilts
and blankets for the duty room and still have over 10 percent of the budget
remaining.
Nevertheless, I was fired after a year's service. This was because
they feared the next fiscal year's budget would be decreased if one with
such capabilities remained. Furthermore, there were complaints from the
merchants to the effect that their security was jeopardized. The merchants
who had been raking in the profits up to that time by buying off the
accountants were afraid that they would no longer be able to do so.
RETURN TO TOKYO
For some time I had been wanting to return to Tokyo and this desire
grew stronger as I saw the forces of evil triumph over good as mentioned
previously. In March 1917, at the age of 24, I returned once again to
TokYo because those were the boom days preceding the end of World War I
when the shortage of manpower in the cities increased the possibilities
of my working my way through school in TOKYo.
Upon my arrival in TokYo a friend helped me get a job with the
Savings Bureau of the Ministry of Communicat ions, located in TSUkIJI, where
I worked et a salery of 50 sen per day. Since there were holidays in be-
tween, my average monthly earnings were about 13.50 yen. Similar tendencies
are still apparent in the lfinistry of Communications, but at that time the
administration was crooked and the employees were made to work like mules.
This wes due to the fact that the employees who were hired at low wages.
were, for the most part, young boys and men who came from rural districts
filled with visions of randeur which they hoped to attain by working
their way through schools in TokYo. These men made a go of it somehow by
supplementing their cheap salaries with help from home. Even so, they did
not strike. They thought that if they participated in a strike and the out-
come was unfavorable it would be detrimental to their future success. Even
today there are very few instances of strikes being conducted in the Ministry
of Communications. At that time I held the mean posit ion of addressing
envelopes. renewing savings bank books, carrying duffel bags from one
department to another and putting the contents in order. I was here for
5

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
Document No. 36388
about nine months and attended the law courses given by the night school
of Nippon University. Actually, I merely enrolled at Nippon University
and only attended classes for about a month. I thought of universities
being nearly worthless institutions. KANAMORI Tokujiro (
),
YAMAOKA Mannosuke, (
), HATOYAMA Hideo (
), and others
used to come to lecture, but their lectures were, in truth, unconvincing
and irresponsible, so I stopped attending them and read books which I
thought were more profitable.
PARTICIPATION IN THE RICE RIOT
The Rice Riot broke out in 19l8, while I was still employed at the
Savings Bureau. The fervor of the mob which participated in the Rice
Riot overwhelmed the rice dealers of that time. In struth, the price of
rice had risen and most of the people were on the verge of starvation.
I, too, did not know what to do since I could not pay for my room and board.
This was attributed to the fact that the rice merchants bought up all the
rice and were manipulating the prices. Therefore, fury broke loose upon
these men and rice riots sprang up all over the country. I was deeply
stirred and became a participant. I joined the riots somewhere in the
vicinity of RYOGOKU. The rioters started in FUKAGAiA, pillaged the rice
granaries in the RYOGOKU and KANDA districts, and then made their way
toward MANSEIBASHI; however, the police rode in on trucks and began to
rain blows on the rioters with their clubs, from above. The people shoved
and pushed their way to MANSEIBASHI, practically crawling on all fours to
avoid being struck by the police; however, they were beaten and had stones
thrown at them b those in that area. When the rioters reached MANSEIBASHI
the troops were called out. It seems that an officer drew his wword and
gave the order "Fire!" However, disciplined as they were, the soldiers
did not fire. At this stage, being hemmed in on both sides by soldiers
and being beaten by the police from behind, we finally fled in wild con-
fusion. It was a matter of life and death. I still remember how I fled,
towards HONGO, and climbed the TENJIN hill, gasping for breath, but I do
not know in which direction I fled from there since my head began to reel,
Nevertheless, I somehow made my way back to my quarters in KANDA and es-
caped arrest. This Rice Riot was the first of such large mass demonstra-
tions in which I participated and the cruelty of the police left a deep
impression upon me. I was furious with this force of the Government which
conducted, without compunction, all manners of violence, according to the
dictates of convenience. This resentment has never left me.
Shortly thereafter, I left the Ministry of Communication and became
a house boy in the home of ir. ONO, a lawyer. I thought my chance of con-
tinuing my education would be better in this capacity; however, 15 days
were all I could endure here. What provoked me most was the fact that I
was requested to take an extremely servile attitude when answering the
telephone and when receiving guests. The direct cause of my leaving was
the fact that I misinterpreted a telephone message of a guest of honor,
who was to leave from Tokyo Station in the morning. I tnought he had said
"afternoon" when I asked hi. the time, so I gave the incorrect message to
the lawyer. When he went to see him off at Tokyo Station in the afternoon,
he found that said person had left that morning. As soon as he returned
he vented his wrath upon me. I thought that I would never be able to en-
dure working here after such an experience, so I quit after 15 days.
However, there were no other jobs and finally I was kicked out of my board-
ing house when I was two month's rent in arrears. Then, I found temporary
employment in a Ward Office and later found a position copying records for
a court. My livelihood became sowhat secure after I had secured a position
in the Tokyo Prefectural Office and I was able to continue my studies.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
Document No. 36388
MY TWO MONTHS AS PROBATIONARY JUDGE
Thus, for three years, I continued working my way through school
and, at the age of 27, in the third year after my arrival in Tokyo, I
became a lawyer.
My becoming a lawyer was merely a means to an end. I chose this
profession because I regarded it as the best approach in conducting
socialistic activities. Lawyers were extremely influential during those
days and I thought that it would be the perfect front behind which to
carry out socialistic activities since lawyers commanded respect any-
where. In truth, this cloak proved to be quite effective. However, in
order to become a lawyer, I served for two months as a probationary
judge. This is the story behind it.
The bar and judicial service examinations were conducted one after
the other, the latter coming first. I took both examinations, but ex-
hausted my energies during the judicial service examination, so when the
bar examination came up I was on the verge of collapse. Hence, I passed
the judicial service examination but failed in the other. However, there
is a provision to the effect that one can automatically become a lawyer
after serving as probationary judge for a length of time provided one
qualifies in the judicial service examination. I, therefore, registered
at the Tokyo District Court. At the end of two months, without having
worked a day, I became a lawyer and worked under YAMAZAKI, Kesaya.
During this year, 1920, YAMAKAWA, Hitoshi, SAKAI, Toshihiko, and
others established the Socialist League. I had been participating in
socialistic activities with YAMAKAWA before that time, so I joined this
League before becoming a lawyer and began my activities under him.
MY DAYS AS A LAWYER
This being my background, I rarely handled ordinary legal cases,
although I was a lawyer. I handled only those cases involving the de-
fense in labor disputes, Tenants' League, and those engaged in Socialist
activities. Therefore, I know the gist of ordinary legal proceedings,
but not the detailed procedures. Lawyers are principally technicians
of law and know only of the application of legal knowledge. However, I
applied my legal technicque in the realm of politics. And the fact that
I was a lawyer who specialized in this manner benefited me greatly in
the courtroom battles in later years.
My first case as a lawyer was the case of ethnologist HASHIURA,
Yosuo and 14 or 15 others who were apprehended on charges of resisting
officers and obstructing the discharge of public duties on May Day 1921.
I, a greenhorn, took a hand in this trial along with many famous
lawyers, including HANAI, Takuzo, and YAMAZAKI, Kesaya. When my turn
came and I presented a rather lengthy argument, Mr. YAMAZAKI laughingly
said, "He's a funny one. He speaks loquaciously and eloguently despite
the fact that this is the first time he is presenting a case." Mr.
YAMAZAKI told me that he was trembling when he argued his first case.
In this sense I was quite bold.
The most interesting case with which I was connected was that re-
garding farm rents on crown-lands under the Ministry of the Imperial House-
hold in ASAHIGAWA, HOKKAIDO. There was an understanding that, as a general
rule, crown-lands would not be rented to anyone except the tenant farmers
themselves and the rent had been set extremely low.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
Document No. 36388
This was around the beginning of 1923 and the
at approximately 10 sen per SE (Translator's Note:
one yen per TAMBU (Translator's Note: O.245 acres). However, one
KAMIYA, Hembei, who sold DENKI BURAN (Translator's Note: spirits
similar to brandy) in his shop at KAMINARIMON, ASAKUSA, had rented all
of the enormous crown-lands in the wicinity of ASAHIGAWA. KAMIYA plann
to have tenant farmers grow potatoes here and produce DENKI BURAN from
the alcohol taken from the potatoes. Therefore, the actual farmers wore
relegated to the position of tenant farmers and paid KAMIYA the ordinary
farm rent of 15 or 16 yen per 1 TANBU. The case concerned the disputes
of these sub-tenants who demanded that these dissrepancies be revised,
that KAMIYA be ousted, and that the land be leased to them directly.
The Ministry of the Imperial Household could not oppose this and the
tenant farmers won this case. This victory led to similar tenant-
farmer controversies throughout HOKKAIDO and even spread to the HACHISUGA
Farms which ranked second to the Ministry of the Imperial Household in
landholdings, possessing 150,000 CHOBU (Translator's Note: 367,500 acres).
Later, however, during the time when I was imprisoned, these tenant
farmers paid dearly.
The Ministry of the Imperial Household asked these tenant farmers
if they wouldn't be interested in buying the land. The tenants cajoled
by interested brokers, agreed to do so. This was an extremely sly move
on the part of the Ministry of the Imperial Household and resulted in
the tenant farmers being duped completely. The reason is that although
it would have been more profitable for the tenant farmers to have continued
to farm on cheaply rented land, they were taken in by the prestige of be-
coming landowners, and bought land by borrowing huge sums from the
Hypothec Bank. And after these interested brokers ran off with 60,000
or 70,000 yen remuneration, the tenant farmers became slaves of the
Hypothec Bank since they could not pay the interest and failed in the
management of the farms. This is how the Ministry of the Imperial House-
hold took advantage of the pyschology of these fanmers who desired land,
and sold lands at a profit under the guise of bestowing favors. In the
same vein, the Government's programs for the establishment of the owner-
farmer system has always been aimed at similar objectives. In short,
monetary profits derived from playing upon the pyschology of the people
whose desire was to become owner-farmers had been their actual motive.
The ones who profited were not the farmers but the Hypothec and the
Agricultural and Industrial Banks. These banks loaned out money, assess-
ing the land at an extremely low price, and when the farmers failed to
pay their debts - such situations occuring much too often - the banks
recovered these lands at the appraised value and resold them at a profit.
The Hypothec and Agricultural Bank and the Industrial Bankshave pros-
pered through such operations, and along with them the landowners and
bourgeois politicians have lined their pockets.
ORGANIZING THE JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY
The Socialist League was soon dissolved and witl its dissolution
many groups of Socialists and Comrunists sprang into existence. These
were the Wednesday Club (SUIYOKAI), the Thursday Club (MOKUYO KAI), the
GYOMINKAI, the SHINJINKAI, among others. The Wednesday Club was organ-
ized by youths with YAllAKAIA Hitoshi and ARAHATA Kanson as it leaders.
Those who were members at that time and who are still living include
YAMAKAWA, ARAHATA, INOKUCHI Masao, and myself. And, although they sub-
sequently fell completely from grace, INAMURA Ryuichi and YOKOTA Sengen
were then members. Those now deceased include NISHI Masao, TADOKORO
Teruaki, UEDA Shigeki, TAKAHASHI Sadaki, and SUGIURA Keiichi. The
Thursday Club had SAKAI Toshihiko and NAKASONE Motokazu; the GYOMINKAI
8

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
Document No. 36388
had TAKATSU Masamichi, TAKASE Kiyoshi, KAWASAKI Etsuyuki, KONDO Eizo
and TAKANO Minoru; and the SHINJINKAI had SHIGA Yoshio. In addition,
there was the Anarchist Organization to which OSUGI Sakae and WADA
Kyutaro belonged.
In 1921, the Conference of the Far East Peoples was held in MOsCow to e
counteract the Washington Conference, and I attended as a representative
of the Wednesday Club. Among those participating in the conference were
TAKASE Kiyoshi, from the GYOMINKAI, YOSHIDA Hajime and WADA Kiichiro from
the Anarchist Organization; and two workers in the printing and publishing
field. In addition to these people, many persons from AMERICA Participated
including KATAYAMA Hisomu and SUZUKI Mosaburo, the latter being on the
staff of the YOMIURI SHIMBUN in those days.
This conference provided the first opportunity since the Anti-War
Convention held in AMSTERDAM during the Russo-Japanese War, at which time
KATAYAMA Hisomu made the acquaintance of PLEKHONOV of the Social Demo-
cratic Labor Party of RUSSIA, for the Japanese people to resume their
long-interrupted internation relations of laborers. Delegates from
Korea, China, Mongolia, Java and Japan gathered for the conference. At
this meeting, the importance of organizing a Communist Party in JAPAN
and of taking concerted action was stressed. The futility of scattered
and independent action by Communists in small circles and groups was
emphasized.
The JAPAN Communist Party was initiated on 5 Jul 22 following our
return to Japan after having received this baptism. The Communist Party
was to be organized with the Wednesday Club, the Thursday Club, and the
GYOMINKAI as its core and with small groups of Communists and individual
Communists participating. Comrades NOZAKA and YAMAMOTO Kenzo, who were
in the All-Japan Trade Union Federation (SODO MEI); ICHIKAWA Masakazu
and his brother Yoshio, SANO Funio and AONO Suikichi - the group which
organized the proletarian class; WATANABE Manzo of the Watchmakers'
Union; as well as HASHIURA Tokio and YOSHIKAWA Morikuni; and HANAOKA
Kiyoshi; NABEYAMA Sadachika and NAKAMURA Yoshiaki from OSAKA; TSUJII
Taminosuke, KOKURIO Goichiro, TANIGUCHI Zentaro, and HANYA Tamazo from
KYOTO; KISHINO Shigeharu of the SUIHEISHA; and SHIGA Yoshio, KURODA
Hisao, ASANUMA Inajiro, ARAI Kuninosuke, SANO Manabu, INOMATA Tsunao,
HIRABAYASHI Hatsunosuke, and KURODA Reiji, representing the instructors
and the students responded immediately.
The first meeting was held on the second floor of a house in
SHIBUYA Ku, TOKYO. On this occasion, only a brief set of regulations
and the more urgent business of the Party was decided. We next met in
November of the same year at a restaurant situated in ISHIGAMII at which
time we discussed the general principles and policies. Out of this de-
liberation was born a set of principles, the first of which called for
the abolition of the Emperor system, and the second of which advocated
the abolition of the Privy Council, the House of Peers, and General
Staff Headquarters. Other general principles included advocacy of the
eight-hour day, confiscation of large estates, freedom of speech, freedom
of the press, freedeom of assembly, freedom of association, and the
abolition of the standing army. The main theme throughout was the stamp-
ing out of all vestiges of feudalism and feudalistic practices. The
abolition of the Emperor system became a major issue on that occasion and
SANO .anabu opposed it. This incident clearly shows that he was funda-
mentally on the wrong side from that time on.
At the first meeting, SAKAI, YAlLAKAWA, ARAHATA, TAKATSU, HASHIURA,
YOSHIKAA, and TOKUDA were elected to the central committee and SAKAI
was made its chairman. The Party carried on very minor activities using
the homes of SAKAI and YAmAKAVA as the headquarters. Thus at the fourth
general assembly of the COMINTERN which was held in 1923, the participation
9

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
Documont No. 36388
by a very small JAPAN Gomman
ZINOVIEV declared that this Party,althon
possessed very strong unity since it was not an out
Democratic Party, as was the case in a number of oth
an organization which, from its very beginning was guided byti
ists.
In December 1922 the Young Communist League was established. At
that time it was called the Communist Youth League. Its organising co
mittee consisted of KAWAI Yoshitora, TAKASE Kiyoshi, SANO Manabu, ARAI
Kuninosuke, INOMATA Tsunao, and TOKUDA, with KAWAI as its chairman.
THE UNIFICATION OF THE LABOR FRONT AND THE
SECOND PARTY CONFERENCE
Around June 1922, very shortly after my return from MOScOW, a move-
ment was initiated in JAPAN to unify the nation's labor unions, and a
conference was held at TENNOJI in OSAKA in which practically all of the
major labor unions participated. At this conference the assertion made
by the All-Japan Trade Union Federation that unity should be achieved
by centralizing power clashed with the insistence of the OSUGI Sakae
faction that it should be accomplished through a loose confederation
which would be led by anarchists. This led to heated verbal attacks,
until finally the chief of police had to order the disbanding of the
meeting. Thus, this meeting which held so much promise was utterly
wrecked. During those days the Communist Party supported the doctrine
of unifying labor unions through the centralization of power as advocated
by the All-Japan Trade Union Federation, and fought vigorously through
fractions, but failed withal in the end. In the first plase, it was un-
reasonable to hope for centralization and national unity in the labor
front when, in those days, the labor union movement had not yet reached
the stage where even a single plant was fully organized. In the second
place, the guidance of the Communist Party was wrong in that it tended
to be too idealistic. These two points are worthy of deep thought
and study. I was in a position where I could not show my face in public
so I took a room in a small hotel in the NIHON BASHI district of OSAKA
and communicated secretly with my comrades.
The second Party conference was held in 1923 at the ITCHOKUEN in
ICHIKAWA Shi. The main points on the agenda for this meeting were the
revision and amendment of the constitution and the re-election of members
of the Central Committee. The election returned SAKAI Toshihiko as the
chairman of the Central Committee and ARAHATA Katsuzo, SANO Manabu,
KOIWAI Kiyoshi, HASHIURA Tokio and YOSHIKAWA Morikuni as committee members.
Neither YAMAKAWA Hitoshi, TAKATSU Masamichi, nor myself (TOKUDA) were
elected to the Central Committee at this conference, but there is an
interesting story behind this. At that time a major issue arose over
whether the Communist Party would approve of a "Diet Struggle" or not,
and I got into a heated argument with people from the GYOMINKAI on this
subject. We reached a stalemate and the outcome was that both the
GYOMINKAI group and myself were removed from the Central Committee. At
that time I advocated an aggressive diet struggle, fighting against the
disapproval of the resistance voiced by the YAM KAWA Hitoshi faction and
the anti-regular election policy of SANO Manabu on the one hand, and
criticizing thoroughly the rightist social democratic parliamentarianism
of the SAKAI Toshihiko faction on the other. For this reason, the rank
and file of the GYOMINKAI came to the defense of SAKAI Toshihiko and,
claiming that I had plotted in MOSCOW to banish SAKAI from the Communist
Party, played the matter up as a Party question. Then, while I was
away in SHANGHAI, they made a report on the Inaugural Convention of the
10

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
Document No. 36388
JAPAN Communist Party and pushed through disciplinary action proh
me from holding any office for a period of two years. However, I 
against it. The Party revoked the punishment and compromised by barring
the GYOMINKAI group and myself from membership in the Central Committeo.
Of course, the Party was controlled rigidly under governmental pressure,
but the revolution had progressed by leaps and bounds in GERMANY and
movements were being carried out actively in ITALY and HUNGARY, so I
argued that we must move along with world trends and take positive steps
to expand the Party and campaign actively for new Party members. However,
many people were afraid of this governmental pressure and did not back
my assertion. During those days, the situation in JAPAN was fairly ad-
vanced, even to the degree that NISHIO Suchiro, who is now in the Socialist
Party, participated actively in the labor union movement which was
temporarily under the influence of the Party.
STRUGGLE AGAINST MILITARY EDUCATION AT WASEDA UNIVERSITY
It was in ay of that year (1923) that the Waseda University
Military Education Incident occurred and was followed on 4 June by a
roundup of Communist Party members. The incident started from the fact
that AOYAGI Atsutane, who was a professor at Waseda University, conspired
with TANAKA Giichi and other militarists who were striving to preserve
in substance the power of the military clique in the face of the then
prevailing world trend in favor of armament reduction, and embarked on
the use of the school system for reserve officer training which was the
forerunner of the Reserve Officer Dandidate system. They went so far as
to have the organization for military education set up within the
University and to hold an inauguration program.
The Waseda Cultural League which embraced progressive students
belonging to the Waseda Cultural Society and to the Founders League
launched an attack against this under the leadership of the Communist
Party. The person who led this movement was ITo Ushinosuke, a son
born of a concubine of SHIBUSAA Eiichi. The people openly voiced their
disapproval of bringing military education into the school in the
presence of Lieutenant General SHIRAKAA Yoshinori who attended the
inauguration program for the ilitary Education Organization. But when
they attempted to launch a struggle by calling a mass meeting of the
students of Waseda University, the Waseda JUO Club, a gang of roughs,
principally from the Waseda Judo Department, led by KITA Kazuteru, who
was assassinated during the 26 February Incident, committed acts of
terrorism at the meeting and plunged the school into a bloody fracas.
Thereupon, the government authorities, as if they had been waiting for
such an opportunity, took advantage of this disturbance and brought
more pressure to bear, using as their excuse, documents and materials
which purportedly were taken from SANO anabu's laboratory by SHIBUYA,
a spy for the Metropolitan Police Department, who was always hanging
around the former. The truth of the matter was that this was in re-
taliation for the stand taken in the military training issue and was
a forcible attempt to militarize the University. SHORIKI Matsutaro,
former president of the YO.iIURI SHIMBUN, directed this roundup, and the
first one to be arrested was SAKAI Toshihiko. As a consequence of this
incident, comrade NOZAKA Sanzo, ICHIKAWA Masakazu, SUGIURA Keiichi,
NISHI Masao, WATANABE Seinosuke, UEDA Shigeki, TADOKORO Teruaki and my-
self were imprisoned. But an interesting sidelight was that the Communist
Party heard of the roundup from a certain source two days before it was
to take place, so it decided to exile immediately such weak-kneed leaders
as SANO Manabu, TAKATSU Masamichi and KONDO Eizo, as well as men such as
YAMAMOTO Kenzo and TSUJII Taminosuke, who were absolutely indespensable
12

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
Dooument No. 36388
in the labor union movement. These persons first fled to CHI
Later sought refuge in SOVIET RUSSIA.
YOUNG SYMPATHIZER
In those days I was staying on the second floor of a friend's how
I don't know how he traced me there, but a plain-clothes man came to th
place. Fortunately, there was a neighborhood child of about twelve or
thirteen who was very fond of me and he quietly warned me, "Someone frem
the police has come to arrest you". I hurriedly packed my belongings in
a bag and was preparing to flee, when I heard my friend's mother insist-
ing that "there is no one here by the name of TOKUDA Kyuichi." However,
he is a firend of my son so he might possibly be at the home of my son's
girl". I don't know whether or not the spy believed these words because
they were uttered by a woman well over fifty years old, but at any rate,
he went away without further ado. I then escaped through the back way.
I had made commitments to go to KYOTO and NAGOYA in connection with
the organizing movement about that time, but I was unable to do so be-
cause of lack of funds. I called on a man named TAKAYAMA of the Ishi-
kawejima Shipyards to try to raise this money; but in the midst of our
conversation, the two TAKAYAMA children - one about seven years old and
the other about 10 years old - who were Communist fans, suddenly cried
out, "Father, they're here!" Realizing that the police had come after
us again, we fled along the rooftops. Fortunately, the home of a
laborer I knew was only three doors away, so we hid in the closet. After
about one hour, we were told that all was clear, so we left our hiding
place with TAKAYAMA leading the way and I following. However, we
learned that a policeman was still posted one block ahead, so we hastily
turned back and went to the home of an acquaintance where we had a taxi
called.for us. We got in the taxi and sped past the policeman, making
good our escape. I stayed at a friend's home that night, and left for
NAGOYA the following morning from SHIMBASHI Station. From there I went
to OSAKA. After I had attended to my business, I returned home. When
TAKAYAMA saw me, he urged me to go to a friend's place in FUKUSHIMA.
However, the final conclusion was that since it was only a matter of
one year's imprisonment for me at the very most, it would be better to
get it over with instead of dodging the authorities for the rest of my
life. Accordingly, I discussed the matter with YAMAZAKI Kesaya, who was
a lawyer and decided to report myself to the Public Procurator's Office.
The grounds for my arrest at that time was that the dissertation I gave
at a certain laborer's meeting concerning the organization of riots in
the event of a revolution, instigated rioting. The prosecutor and I en-
gaged in a heated arugment, I insisting, "That does not consitute a crime
of instigation", and he insisting," it is instigation". At any rate,
I was sent to ICHIGAYA Prison. Shortly after I entered the prison
without having had my supper, someone said 'eat" and shoved a meal in
front of me. It consisted almost entirely of boiled barley and had
the merest smattering of vegetaßles; it was a meal hardly worhhy of being
called "food". When I ate it all and asked for a second helping, the
jailor was surprised beyond words. By the following morning, I was
summoned by the Examining Judge and told to appear. In those days, it
was customary to wear a deep straw-hat to hide one's face when going
outside the prison, but when a jailor tried to put one over my head,
I snarled at him," I'm not guilty of any outrageous crime and so I have
no objection whatsoever to showing my face. I won't wear that because
I wen't be able to see anything if I do", and started to walk rapidly
off. The jailor muttered to himself, "what a rough character", and didn't
try to interfere. My conviction was that it was essential for a person
in prison to be aggressive and assertive from the very first contact.
and I was correct. Persons who can't even touch food in the beginning
13

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
Document No. 36388
like MIZUNO Nario, a figure in the 15 March incident, who becam
jeeted as soon as he entered prison and who later reminiseed,
the door to my cell clanged shut behind me, it seemed as if my life
had reached its lowest ebb", always succumb. MIzuNo was so inteat on
getting out of prison that he lost all conviction in the revolution,
and finally joined the faction favoring dissolution of the Party. In
fact, he fell so low as to become a spy.
THE GREAT EARTHQUAKE AND ICHIGAYA
I went through the great earthquake of 1 September at ICHIGAYA.
Dinners are served early in prison, so when the tremors started that
day, we had just finished our noon meal. We in the cells had little
to worry about because each cell had a pillar to support it, enabling
the rooms to withstand even a shock as great as that one was. However,
in the office part, the rooms were more spacious and had fewer sup-
porting pillars so the tremors had more effect. The roof tiles all fell
down and a great commotion started at once. My cell was adjacent to the
office so I heard all this commotion as well as if I were in the same
room. The jailer didn't make a move to open the door to my cell, saying
that he hadn't received any orders to do sc. I resented this and stormed
back at him, asking him if it was necessary to wait for orders in an
emergency such as that was. Before long a jailer came along and un-
locked my cell door. I leaped out and rushed into the office where I
learned that only the Communists had been released and the other convicts
were still confined in their cells in the midst of this great earthquake.
I yelled, "Get everyone out. It's dangerous so let everyone out!" As a
result, they finally decided to let eveyone out, and the jailers unlocked
the doors. Everyone fushed out with a frightened look on his face, each
carrying a summer quilt and a mat.
However, it was shortly after midday and the sun was very strong out-
side. They had all been sut up in the cells for so long that when they
went outside into the strong sunlight, some of them suffered sunstroke.
I was not affected very much but my comrades, "ATANAkE Seinosuke and
TASHIRO Tsuneji, had convulsions because of sunstroke and their faces
turned pale instantly. We consulted with the prison officials and had the
persons affected by sunstroke transferred to the prison's hospital wards.
we, about 800 in all, gathered in the inner courtyard. Apparently the
prison officials notified the Army at the same time they released us from
our cells, because troops arrived before sundown and surrounded the outer
walls of the prison. In the evening they entered the courtyard and sur-
rounded us with bayonets fixed.
Around 1500 hours that day I made a speech to my 800 prisonmates who
were gathered in the courtyard. I said, "At this moment there is great
confusion outside these prison walls. It is quite probable that many of
our loved ones have suffered from the earthquake or the fire. Therefore,
since the situation is so extraordinary, let us demand of the prison
officials that all of us be released immediately. Let us choose represen-
tatives from among ourselves and start negotiations with the officials
immediately".
Everyone approved of this suggestion of mine and a representatives!
committee composed of one person from each prison block was formed. This
was the start of the "Prison Self-governing Committee". From then on this
served as the self-governing organization of and by the convicts them-
selves and through all those troubled days the convicts were able to deal
with all matters concerning prison life - from negotiation with prison
officials to the food problem - in an exemplary fashion. In other words,
we achieved democracy within the prison walls, and I believe that the
fact that this self-governing organization was managed so well, despite
its being composed of a group of robbers and murderers, is significant in
many ways and is worthy of study by all, even today. At any rate the
14

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
representatives! committee was formed, and I, as ome of it
went to the officials immediately for the purpose of negotist
the "demand for ralease". However, the officials, having obtal
assurance and suubbornly refused to grant our request. Therefore,
committee of representatives tried a new approval, and demanded, kff
are determined not to release us, there is little we can do about it.
in that case, allow a few representatives of ours to leave the prison 
that they might investigate conditions in the outside world and repert to
us all upon their return". The prison officials refused to allow even
this, but we were firm in our insistence and they finally conceded to let
officials of the prison make those reports to us. However, the prison
officials, fearful of such action on our part, claimed that there was a
feeling of unrest among the prisoners and, backed by the power of the Army,
turned the attack against us. The outcome of this was that we were hand-
cuffed once again. Speaking of handcuffs, they weren't prepared to band
all 800 of us individually so they committed the outrage of handcuffing two
persons togetner, although I was ofrtunate enough to have a pair to myself.
Inamates were joined together in pairs like in a three-legged race, one
man with his left wrist in the handcuffs and the other his right wrist.
The most unspeakable outrage was that they cn tried to handcuff comrades
"ATANAKE seinosuke and KAWASAKI Etsuyuki who were confined in the prison
hospital ward. When I saw that, I threatened the chief jailer that if
patients were handcuffed, I wouldcharge him with intent to kill. There-
upon, he thought better of it and returned the patients to the hospital
ward.
It rained on the second day after the earthquake, and we were returned
to our cells on that account. I believe it was on the day following that
the troops assembled in a fan-shaped formation in the open area in the
center of the scattered groups of prison cells and dragged us out one by
one and started the process of transferring us to different cells. If there
was any sign of resistance, they beat, and kicked and resorted to all sorts
of violence. And, as usual, this was done "In the name of the Emperor and
in accordance with His Orders". This was a preliminary move to get us
accustomed to strict discipline within the prison, a discipline which had
been relaxed temporarily because of the earthquake but which they entended
to restore. SUgluRA Keiichi was so badly beaten that he suffered for a
week.
Shortly thereafter a steady stream of blood-stained persons were brought
in by truck. All these people had been arrested for "suspected violence" and,
included among their numbers, were Communists, anarchists, and even Koreans
and agitators for the labor union movement and the farmers movement.
In a month's time conditions in the prison had been restored to what they
had been before. Then, several scores of a new type of young men arrived.
They had nothing of the appearance of a convict; they looked like mere
amateurs. At the time, the exercise grounds for those in solitary confine-
ment were in ruins because of the earthquake and the corridors adjacent to the
cells were being used in their stead. Every time they passed in front of my
cell I conversed with them. It turned ot that they were reservists. It seems
that they were imprisoned because Koreans, Chinese, Communists and anarchists
had been killed in various places and these people were suspected of
slaughterint them. Being reservists, they had been mobilized by theit officers
and placed in the massacre group. They claip, however, that all they did was
to chase these people through the streets as ordered by their officers and
that they did not commit any killings. They were branded as killers and ar-
rested for the mere carrying of rifles. In short, the entire blame was upt
on thesesoldiers, and the officers and chapter presidents of the Reservists
Association who were the real culprits feigned innocence. I encouraged these
persons, telling them, "whatever happens, don't let the prosecutor put any-
thing over on you". At the same time, I contacted the Liberal Bar Association
and had them carry on an all-out fight against such detestable maneuvers by the
military clique and the police. Of course, these chargds were baseless and
15

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
most of them were acquitted. Even se I is gine that they
beyond words ab having been falsely accused of such a heinous
murder so unconscionably.
The Prison as a Place to Study
The prison cannot be called a decent place by any manner of means, but
one good thing about it is that, being shut off from the outside world, it
gives a person a chance to so some serious study. The outside world is
full of hustle and bustle. There people drink and worry about various
things. But in prison.there is none of that. Since there are no distracting
thoughts, a person can really get something aut of any book he reads. of course,
in prison one isn't free to read any book he chooses. On the contrary, we
were seldom allowed to read the books we really would have liked to read.
Fortunately, the value of a book depends, in part, on the way the reader
reads it, which means that if one has sound reading habits, he is able to
derive something worthwhile out of any book. In this way the value of good
books is enhanced and even mediocre ones come to serve a purposd.
I read a wide variety of books during my stay in ICHIGAYA. I read
anything I could lay my hands on, including the autobiography of SHIBUSAWA
Eiichi, and the vainglorious writings and the teachings of YASUDE Zenjiro.
In these works the schemes used by the capitalists to gain maximum profits
and to exploit labor most skillfully and thoroughly appear very clearly be-
tween the lines which on the surface seem entirely reasonable. In that sense,
these books may be called "required reading" for our Party. For instance,
YASUDA Zenjiro had an extreme dislike for speculative ventures and absolutely
forbade those under him to deal in speculation. He stated that any person who
once experiences the feeling of making money by speculating soon becomes a
victum of its allure and is likely to go astray. Actually, however, this
person who preached such teachings was himself a speculator to the nth de-
gree. Furthermore, his methods were bold to the extreme. In short, his
"dislike for speculation" was motivated by the fact that he did not want his
employees to beeame so involved in their speculations that they would forget
their duties as employees, Actually, it was nothing more than a lecture cal-
culated to satisfy his own acquisitive nature. This is potently evident to
anyone who reads his sermons.
Seniour Menbers: Theories on Party
Dissolution and the Strengthening of the Party
Upon being released from prison after the earthquake, I learned that a
world-wide wave of counter-revolution has started, as an outgrowth of the
defeat of the revolution in GERMANY, LENIN called this set of conditions
"a period of temporary equilibrium", while BUkHARIN called it "a period of
stability". Some say that this period lasted until the great panic in
AMERICA in late 1929, while the COMINTERN claims that the end of this period
was marked by the revolution in CHINA which broke out in 1927. At any rate,
we were freed during this "period of temporary equilibrium" in wolrd capital-
ism and at a time when revolutionary influence was weakening and was being
defeated all over the world. Nor was JAPAN an exception. Extreme unrest
prevailed among the old-timers of the Party like SAKAI and YAMAKAWA and in
SANO Fumio's camp. They claimed that it was impossible to have a Communist
Party organization in JAPAN and advocated the dissolution of the Party for
the time being. Moreover, they adhered to the so-called spontaneous eruption
theory" which claims that a revolution would occur spontaneously when the
time came for it. As a matter of fact, there were a number of weak elements
within the Party. These elements were disappointed and discourgaed by the
universal weakening of the revolution and fearful of the possiblity of con-
tinued arrests. They expressed wuch opinions to rationalize their discourage-
ment and their fears. Labor interests and young men within the party opposed
this and insisted that the Party should be reorganized and allowed to continue.
16

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
Among the top leaders, ARAHATA Kanson and I championed this eppositien
Shanghaia TEZIS (a plan). This is also commonly Imown as the January
TEZIS. The delegates of the dissolutionists voted in favor of this TEZIS,
stand and withdrew from the Party. Even the old-timers didn't attempt to
change their opinions, tending rather to increase the feeling of fear.
As a consequence of all this, the Committee or the Strengthening of
the Party was established, and because there were few members who were
capable of aggressive action, I assumed the responsibility of organiza-
tion and carried on the task of strengthening the Party.
ARAHATA and SANO Manabu participated in this SANO had been abroad
and was not acquainted with the pressed internal situation. He did not
join with strong revolutionary intentions, but merely to follow the views
of the CoMINTERN. At any rate, it was agreed to strengthen the Party in
this way. Eventually, such persons as WATANAkE Mananosuke became Party
leaders and were joined by the labor group and ourselves. I was appointed
the secretary-general of this new Party and the chief of its Organization
Department. In September of the same year, the "Proletarian Newspaper"
was published as the official organ of the Party.
However, at the end of the sameyear, 1924, the problem of organizing
a labor-farmer party arose, while in March of the following year, the
issue of the disruption of the council came to a head. The Party was com-
mitted to the policy of unification of the labor front and not of its dis-
ruption. The idea was to unite the labor unions and advance under a united
front. Prior to this, in May 1924, the person in charge of PROFINTERN came
to SHANGHAI and SANO manabu, WATANABE Masanosuke, and I went to meet him.
Here we drafted the TEZIE for emphasizing the inification of the labor union
movement. This is popularly known as the May TEZIS. We hastened back from
SHANGHAI with this plan but found that we were too late. The left wing,
unable to endure the situation any longer, had already broken away ten days
earlies.
This is the story behind the split. To begin with, the Kanto Labor
Union Council was formed within the All-Japan Trade Union Federation as an
anti-leader group faction. In spite of this, a split was avoided and the
plan was to form anti-leader group factions in all other unions to work for
the unification of the unions and, at the same time, to rid them of some of
their corrupted officials. However, the bosses used all the means at their
command to incite disruption. Officials of revolution-minded labor unions
who opposed the disgraceful conduct of the bosses were thrown out of the
union by the bosses. When the labor unions to which such officials be-
longed lodged a protest against the expulsions, the unions were also expelled.
Thus, conscientious unions were driven to helpless disruption. Thereupon,
they came to the conclusion that under such circumstances, it would be easier
to operate and be more pfofitable if they broke away, so in May 1925, the
Labor Union Council was formed as a nation-wide organization. Many acts
engaged in by the basses at that time were indeed matters which could not
be overlooked. Disruption first became an issue in the Kanto region, follow-
ed by the Kansai region. In this latter area, even the neutral factions,
after seeing the misdeeds performed by the bosses, joined the left wing.
That is, in the Kansai region, a branch assembly under the chairmanship of
NODA Ritsuta was held by the Osaka Federation to discuss the problem of
disruption. The bosses, under the direction of NISHIO suehiro, did every-
thing in their power at the assembly to split the left-wing factions.
Chariman NOnA finally became infuriated and said, "Te can't go an with
such people", and joined the left wing. Thus, the number of people who
swung to the left was beyond the besses' expectations. This problem
originated in the incitement caused by the bosses. For this reason, they
still abuse us by calling us "disruptionists affected with left-wing
juvenility". This, however, is far from appropriate, for it is they who
are the disruptionists.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
However, the disruption of the Council was our downfall. The
that we were taken in by their incitement and did not make suffieient
efforts to remain as a pro-revolutionary opposition force within the
lesson in our present union movement.
Our weakness at that time lay in the fact that we did not sufficiently
arm ourselves with the theories of MARX and LENIN. One of the causes of
the disruption of the Council were the errors that we made because of our
weakness in theory. Unions were, in this manner, overrun by YAMAKAwA-ism,
whereas there was a tendency of the entire party's being overrun by
FUKUMOTO-ism. Although we are at present sufficiently well-grounded in
theory, we must consider our past experience and strive to strengthen our
theory of revolution.
In the summer of the same year (1925), I went to the COMINTERN to
attend the Sixth Plenum (Expanded Central Committee Meeting) and returned
in May of the following year, 1926. In the beginning of July I was im-
prisoned as the adjudged in the first Communist Party case. I was confined
for ten months - four months waiting for trial and six months as my sentence.
Meanwhile, in December 1926 the third Party convention was held at GOSHIKI
Hot Springs and the Party was expanded and strengthened.
The Party policy was influenced by FUKUMoTO-ism and plans were laid to
form a Party organization considting of only professional revolutionists.
This led to a deadlock in both the organization and the movement. The
COMINTERN opposed this plan and urged the popularization of the Party and
demanded criticism of the Fukumoto theory. In arder to perform thorough
criticism on this theory, it was decided to have all responsible persons of
the Party attend the 1927 general assembly. The plan for 1927 was determined
and FukunoTo-ism thoroughly citicized at this assembly. An epochal strengthen-
ing of the Party was then begun. The secretary-general at that time was SANO
Manabu, but ATANAkE seinosuke, who was the chief of the organization depart-
ment, was in charge of the actual supervision of the Party. WATANAKE has
rendered distinguished service to the Party by promoting the enforcement of
this plan. I, too, left JAPAN in May 1947 and attended this pe num. I re-
turned in December of the same year.
Arrested on 15 March. Since Secretary-general SANO left soon there-
after for MOSCO", WATANAKE was elected to take his place in the first
popular election with was held in 1928. The Party presented itself to the
public thpough the general election and began a campaign to popularize it-
self. This was a great shock to the ogverning class, but they soon retaliated
through the big roundup of 15 March. Six thousand persons were arrested
during this roundup, and of this number, 2,500 were imprisoned. Later, they
were gradually released and only 700 or 800 persons were actually sentenced.
At this general election, I ran as a candidate from the 3rd district.
was on 23 February that I found out the final results of the election. As I
for it long before 15 March. On 26 February, I got a haircut and had the

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
Railway Station and managed to disguise myself considerably
I was apprehended as I started to leave the shop. I was takem
immediately to TokYo and was thrown into the cell of the Takamam
tectives. We got off the train at YOKOHAMA and rode the Koihim
line to SHINAGAWA. Since TOKYO was not far from there. I decided 
make a quick escape, but when I reached SHINAGAwA, I had no chaneo to
to for I was surrounded by about 30 detectives and policemen. My questi
ing began at the Takanawa Police Station. Since I firmly persisted that
I was being subjected to illegal arrest, they were quite frustrated. I
took advantage of this moment and nonchalantly burned all evidence and
identification I had with me in the presence of the detectives. The
detectives didn't know that anything had happened. I was then taken by
automobile to the filthy metropolitan Police Headquarters in BABASAkIMON.
I had not even been handcuffed yet. I tried to escape when we can to
the intersection at TAMUKA Cho. The office of the Poletarian Newspeper,
was located on the road to the right of the crossing and the office of
TOKO was on the road towards SHIMBASHI. Since I had friends in both
offices, I thought it would be convenient to escape to either of the two.
Mulling all this over in my mind, I decided to leap out when the car came
to the corssing and stopped. The automobile stopped and I was halfway
out but I was caught by the three detectives who guickly grabbed me
around the nect and pulled me back in. I was then firmly held down until
we reached metropolitan Police Headquarters. I had failed in this attempt
and could do nothing that night. I learned later that, when NABEYAMA was
caught, he was bound securely with rope and was thrown into the automobile
in a helpless condition. After I went to jail, I related the story of my
failure to him, whereupon he said, "What! You're a villain! We were tied
up on account of youl" It seems that because I had attempted to escape,
those who were apprehended later were guarded very closely. As it turned
out, I had caused the others to suffer.
I was left at the Metropolitan Police Headquarters for one month
where they pricked my fingers between the nail and flesh with a needle and
tortured me in various other ways. However, I told them nothing, for I
had resolved to die in the event that I was caught. My evening then put
a clever pickpocket in my cell. As a rule, we were put in private cells,
but it was then plan to ferret something out of me through this pickpocket
whom they put in with me. Soon, this fellow started to converse with me
and claimed that he had campaigned for the cause in FUKAGA"A and that he
knew ASANAUMA Inejiro. It seems that the enemy had expected me to ask him
to serve as a link with the cutside world. They had hoped to gather evidence
thbough my connections if I had chosen to do so.
This plan, however, proved & failure for, not only did I not ask him
to act as my go-between, but I also learned from his own words in con-
versign with him that he was a habitual pickpocket and that he had been
put in my cell with instructions from my enemies. He finally apologized and
said that he was sorry. Then they threw my cousin, TokUDA Kenki who was
caught working for the labor union movement at that time, into the same
cell with me. My enemy's intentions were the same as before. Because of
my former experience, I said nothing to him pertaining to liaison and spoke
only of other matters. My enemies finally gave up, and he was transferred
to another cell, after which they again commenced to torture me.
As before, I refused to talk. Since they had no evidence against me,
I was sent to Ichigaya Prison as a suspect on 28 March. In spite of all
their investigations and questioning, they could get no evidence. They
stopped hounding me, thinking that WATANABE and FUKUgOTO were the reing-
leaders of the Party movement and I was only small fry. Since I had run in
the election at FUKUOKA, I was sent to the Dotemachi Detention House in
FUKUOKA ten days later, with the idea that they might be able to unearth
some evidence if I were sent back to FUAUOKA. All of my comrades in
FUKuOKA were there in the Detention House. Here again, however, they were
not able to obtain evidence against me. Moreover, since I encouraged my
fellow comrades of FUKUOKA, my enemies were unable to achieve their purpose.
Consequently, I was sent back to TOkYo a month later and was put in
Toyotama Prison.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
The first person I met in TOYOTAMA was Mr. SHIGA. He was confimed
the central part of the prison and I was in a corner cell. We poke
about various things during exercise periods and for the first time I
learned of the scope of the 15 March roundup.
What impressed me most at TOYOTAMA was that MIZUNO, Nario turned com
pletely pale when he was brought to the prison and his rice gruel ms al
ways seen in front of his cell, for he did not even take his mals. I
knew intuitively that he was a dangerous person. Any person who is die-
appointed or dispirited when put in prison is always dangerious. Such
persons always turn stool pigeon. MizUNO hardly ate for a week and looked
very sad. He later betrayed the Party as I had expected. In his state-
ment he wrote, "when I was put in prison and heard the door being locked,
I felt as though I had descended to the bottom of hell. I thought of my
parents and cried." He later became an enemy spy and submitted a written
pledge to the court promising that he would exert all efforts to destroy
the Communist Party. He was the first person to change coat. The mumber
of betrayers gradually increased after this and the first dissolution
party was erganized with MIZUNO as leader.
Betrayed by SANO Manabu and Others
The 16 April roundup occurred the following year (1929) and SANO,
Manabu was later caught in SHANGHAI. Other leading comrades were also
caught. As before, I gave no information to the enemy. Since I had remained
unsubmissive in the first Communist Party case, the prosecutor felt that it
would be useless to question me in this case, so, without being subjected
to any questioning, I was sent to the preliminary judge. I was questioned by
him, but as before, I gave no information. I refused point blank, saying,
"You are probably within your authority to ask for information, but I also
have the right to remain silent". Therefore, they were unable to get anything
out of me. However, I was surprised when the statements of SANO, NABEYAMA,
MITAMURA, and TAKASHISHI were shown to me in 1930.
These statements showed that, in their attempt to hasten their own re-
lease, they had tried to fool the other side. In doing so, they had joined
in the enemy's scheme by blabbering about everything, even the secrets of the
Party, in their selfish desire to leave the prison. In spite of the fact
that SANO and NABEYAMA were persons of responsibility within the Party,
they made such statements as, "I am not a Party member", or "I am a Party
member but I do not have much to do with it". ITA'URA on his part, wanted
to play himself up in addition to wanting to be released, so he made such
exaggerated remarks as, "The Party is a very weak organization and is not
capable of doing a thing", or "The Party is nothing to me. I merely
utilized it for my own convenience in improving and educating the Japanese
laborers and farmers". He listed different incidents which occurred with-
in the Party to discredit the Party.
In this manner, the statements were prepared to suit the enemy and
the Party was greatly upset and battered. We were placed in a difficult
plight where he had to fight against this. In order to point the true
picture of the Party and to reveal to non-Party members as well as to Party
members, the fact that it was fighting for the people, it became necessary
for us to prepare our own statements. I discussed the matter with SHIGA and
the others, and it was agreed that since we could not foretell when we might
die in this prison, we should reveal the truths about the Party. We then
began to prepare our dispositions for the preliminary hearing.
However, at this point, the aspersions cast upon the Party began to
weigh upon us and we were well on the way to making another mistake. In
the first place, we were only required to explain Party policy during our
trial. There was no need to explain organization or other matters; in
fact, they were not to be mentioned at all. But to nullify the damage
done by SANO and the others, we had to explain matters which should not
have been mentioned at the trial, in order to prove the real character of
the Party. Because SHIGA and I had begun our declaration

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
likewise, saying, "TOKUDA and SHIGA have begun their deelaratione
is senseless for you to remain silent. Go ahead and make your
ments". Thus we inadvertently exerted a bad influence on comrados
came after us. In coping with the betrayal and mistakes of others,
myself finally commited a mistake. To this day I regret this mistake
In This Manner
SANO and the others proved all the way through from the preliminary
hearing through the trial itself, that they were weak and possessed no
political power. They also turned against us and betrayed us. Through
their intease desire to be released, their thoughts were centered upon
themselves instead of on the Party. This was the fundamental mistake.
Knowing this, the enemy offered personal gains and SANO, NABEYAMA, MITAMURA,
and TAKAHASHI jumped at the opportunity. They became the tools with which
the enemy strove to disrupt and destroy the Party.
The thing to remember when one is caught by the enemy is that one must
not say the things the enemy wants him to say. No matter what the detective
or prosecutor may say, there is one way to protect yourself from their at-
tack. There is a provision in law which gives us the right to say "I have
the right bo remain silent". Therefore, refuse to say anything when you
think it is unfavorable. Say instead, "I have the right to reman silent so
I won't say anything". Whether you have co-respondents or not it is per
missible to state facts which are to your advantage. However, you should
not mention anything which would be detrimental. For this reason, if you
are asked by the enemy "Isn't this right?", or "Isn't that right?", you
should say, "If you think so, prepare this statement yourself. I have the
right to refuse to answer". This was the correct attitude and the one which
I took at the beginning. SANO and MITAMURA aregood examples of those who
entered into the enemy's pland and gave out information. If you are caught
and put in prison. it is your duty as a Party member to refrain from giving
the enemy any information he is looking for.
Court Struggle
At any rate, we planned a court struggle out of all this. Therewere
about 270 persons in our group so, if we were to be tried individually, it
would have taken years to complete our trials. Therefore, even the re-
actionary officials who were hoping for separate trials had no alternative
but to agree to a mass tria. e took advantage of this situation. we dis-
manded a mass tril and made plans to conduct a systematic struggle in court
to bring out the true nature of the Party. Our demands took effect and the
first hearing began in July 1931 with Judge MIYAGI Minoru presiding and with
the two public procurators HIRATA and TOZAWA present. It lasted exactly
one year until July of the following year.
The Party's main object in the court struggle was to bring all the de-
fendents together and explain the Party's position. For this purpose, we
made arrangements to select and form a court committee from among ourselves
and have the members of the committee give a general description of the
Party while the other defendants confined themselves principally to the
limits of their own sphere's of relationship. The enemy consented to this.
The court committee, which consisted of 1O persons - ICHIKA!A, SANO,
NABEYAMA, SUGIURA, KOKURIO, SHIGA, TAKAHASHI, NAKAO, MITAMURA and mýSelf, -
met frequently and discussed ways and means of explaining the Party's
position and how to present a consolidated picture of Party policies.
This committee stood us in very good stead. Even, in prison we were
aboe to study the Party and the means of strengthening it. During the one
year of the trial while the statements of all of us were being taken, the
committee was always present in the courtroom. It became necessary for all
of the defendants to have liaison within and without the prison in connection
with the preparations for the conduct of our trial, and with the preparation
for our preliminary hearing. The court had to allow this also. It was thus

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
that we were able to gather the necessary evidence for releas
prison. The minor defendants, even those who did not renomnce
Party, were freed on bail. Noreover, the class conscience of ove
those who had gained their freedom by renouncing the Party was sti
lated and this proved to be a big help in strengthening the Party in
order to carry out a court struggle, directed by the court committes.
Particularly, in view of the fact that at that time the struggles of
the Party were encountering many obstacles because of the contimuous
presence of the Party and the arrest of long time comrades, this
court struggle was a tremendous contributing factor toward the strengthen-
ing of the Party.
Furthermore, we did not persist in the censure of SANO and others
even though they took the wrong attitude towards the Party, because if
we had condemned SANO, NABEYAMA, MITAMURA, and TAKAHASHI, the Party
would inevitably have split up into three or even four factions within
the prison. No matter how wrong they were, as long as they were the
actual leaders of the Party, I think that it was right to try to guide
them back onton the right road through persuasion and by making them
understand their faults so as to unify the Party and to show the
public the Party's real character. An unwritten law of the Communist
Party calls for the censure and condemnation of anyone committing a
wrong while the Party is faced with difficulties, but at the same time
it is often necessary to take a generous attitude and allow such persons
to subject themselves to self-criticism and subsequently guide them in
the right direction. Of course, if a person definitely betrays the
Party, he must be expelled, but before such action is taken he must be
given a chance to comply with the policies of the Party through self-
criticism. So long as he complies, he must be retained as a member of
the Party and given full rein of action. For this reason, in spite of
the fact that SANo and others had committed a serious wrong, we selected
SANo as the Party's representative, and the court committee also fought
with him at the helm. Even today I consider that this was the proper
action to take. Our only faults at that time were that we did not make
him study himself more strongly and that we did not keep a stricter watch
over his fubure actions. me were not thorough enough in these respects.
Our big mistake was that neither his self-criticism nor the surveillance
over him was adequate enough to enable us to criticize him severly and
make the truths known within the Party. The majority within the Party did
not know the actual conditions and since the Party leaders alone dis-
posed of the matter, the majority of the Party members continued to have
unquestioning faith in these persons. This later became a big obstacle,
to the Party.
At any rate this trial attracted considerable attention from the
working mass. A large crowd witnessed the trial, filling the spectators'
gallery to capacity. Because there were so many spectators, the court
began issuing admission passes, and the people lived up in front of the
court-house to get them. Even then, passes, which were limited in
number, could not be gotten on the morning of the day of the trial so
they came the night before and stayed overnight. It was an irrepressible de-
sire of all laborers, students,pand progressive elements to learn what
the Communist Party was like. This desire manifested itself in the form
of spectators. Among the spectators there was one other element. This
element comprised the reactionary element and government officials. Even
they could not ignore the existence of the Communist Party, and with their
curiosity aroused as to exactly what the Communist Party's doings were,
it seems that there was a large number of them among the spectators.
However, they did not go as far as to line up from the night before like
the other spectators did. In ordinary trials, it was customary for these
elements, particularly the judicial officials, to sit behind the judges
and watch the proceedings. However, in our trial werobjected, declaring
"Sttting in high seats behind the judges and looking down on us is un-
thinkable". The court acceded to our demand and after providing them
with seats directly behind us and presenting them with special admission
passes, the court made them sit with the general spectabors. Thus, the

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
highest ranking government officials of various ministrien
of both the House af Peers and House of Representatives,
all walks of life came. Even persons like NITOBE Inazo cam
ed the trial.
The court scene on the first day of the trial was so packed with
emotion that I remember it efen to this day. We comrades who had bed
confined separately for a long time were suddenly brought together at 
time. There were some whose health had brokem dowm and were hardly re-
cognizable. Since we had been separated for such a long time, we encourng
each other and felt a mizture of joy and surprise in the changes. Thermwere
some who even cried.
Following this, we began our testimonies. The plan was to have those
who were familiar with the courts and the laws to testify first but when
SANo took the witness stand first, we were discouraged. Although our
opponents had left a big loophole, SANo did not attach them there.
Actually, at first, the indictment was out of form. This was because each
prosecutor and judge had a different definition of the communist party.
Prosecutor HIRATA stated the reasons for prosecution as "in accordance
with the findings at the conclusion of preliminary hearing"; however, the
findings of the preliminary hearing were various. Therefore, after SANO,
I took the stand and charged, "Are not your charges entirely inconsistent?
The definition of the Party differs with each of the defendants. Charges
cannot be defined in such a manner; therefore, a trial cannot be held.
Start all over again. Just exactly what are your intentions?" The prose-
cutors became totally confused. We should have pressed them further at
that point, but SANo refused to do this. The next problem was to clarify
the relationship between the Communist Party and the private property
system. Our opponents stated that the Communist Party does not recognize
private property. I said then and I still say now that the Communists do
recognize private property, nor can they refuse to recognize it. Even if
it is not recognized, the things that exist do not disappear.
I had consistently thought along those lines and had even put it into
writing. Even in court, I claimed this and attacked the opponents' state-
ment. At this time the court did not know how to answer since this would
make the clause, "non-recognition of private property, etc" of the Peace
Preservation Law, ina pplicable to the Communist Party. Again, I assailed
"The Peace Preservation Law is absurd. There is nothing in the Communist
Party which denies private property"; where upon, they were completely
stumped. Then, for the second time MITAMURA butted in and aided them. He
stated, "'d do not recognize private property. Capitalism is the private
property system. We do not recognize capitalism, ergo, we do not recognize
private ownership of property". There is a distinct difference in meaning
between capitalism and private ownership of property. Capitalism, and not
private onwneship of property, is the one which forces the working class
into poverty and takes away the peoples's private property. Private owner-
ship of property is not in the least the same as capitalism. MITAMURA
quibbled over this point, blunderingly explained our position, and helped
this imperialistic trial. At any rate since there were very few of us
of the orthodox Party on the court committss, difficult to fight back.
From this one type of betrayal, alter denunciation of the Party and open
treacheriesand interferences against the Party arose.
KAMTMURA Susumu, SHINDO KanJi, HOSOSEKO Kanemitsu, FUSE, tatsuji, and
about 30 others organized a labor-farmer defense counsel and undertook to
defend our case. However, the court was extremely hard on this defense
counsel. In spite of the fact that the attorneys were properly defend-
ing the case, as soon as it seemed as if the case was turning in fator
of the defendants, the judges would immediately defy them. The prosecutors
reacted immediately to this. They intimated the defense counsel by im-
plying that their right to practice law would be taken away. Even the
presiding judge intimidated them by such words as, "Just a moment. I
would like to have the defense give an explantion", "can the defense back
up what they have just said", or "Aren't the statements made by that de-
fense counsel just exactly what the Peach Preservation Law states?" When

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
officials and the capitalists, described the thir
pointed out the fact that the evidence which was sul
be used as tmue evidence since it was actually obta
had to stand the chance of having their right to prectise lew
when they spoke up bravely to defend our case. Therefore, we had
back up the defense counsel. A defendant rose and closed in with
wodds, "Do you actually have the authority to prevent the defense
from stating such facts? If you have, it's all right, But if tho pr
siding judge is going to try to forcibly restrain the presentation of
such true facts, he is definitely preventing the upper hand. Therefore,
we shall also proceed with that in mind. Is that all right?" After
that verbal blast, they shut up. When the presiding judge plainly
acted against us, we challenged him, and in some cases, since we had
the right to make complaints, we used this right to back up the defense
counsel. Thus, it happened that the defendents had to defend the defense
counsel.
From about the beginning of the court struggle the Manchurian
Incident broke out, military power increased, and reactionary senti-
ment toward us became considerably stronger. These conditions were also
reflected in the court, and the judges and the prosecutions began to
use brutal force. Sometimes the presiding judge would even go so far as
to behave scandalously by over-exercising his police authority, leaping
upon the bench, and directing the guards in beating us with handcuffs.
In one instance, a guard of a third or fourth rank in KENDO (Tn Japanese
fencing) grabbed me by the collar and kicked me while I was talking with
my attorney.
After the first trial in January 1933, the NAZIS assumed control
of GERMANY and reactionary conditions became increasingly predominant.
In conjunction with the attacks on the Communist Party on the outside,
pressure on the communists within the prison walls became greater. SANO,
NABEYAMA, MITAMURA, and TAKAHASHI surrendered completely to our foes and
began working toward the destruction of the Party. On 9 June 33, they
finally announced their renunciation by acknowledging the Emperor System.
The second trial did not begin until 1935. During the first hear-
ing we fought together under a mass trial but this time the affair was
divided into separate trails - that of the group who did not renounce
the Party and that of SANO's group, which renounced the Party. On our
side, the four of us, ICHIKAIA, KOKURIO, SHIGA, and myself (TOKUDA),
fought together. Although the defense counsel was still with us at this
time, they did not defend us anymore. Because of class conscious lawyer
could not defend us because of the pressure put on such lawyers and be-
cause a mere bourgecis lawyer could do no more than to serve as our
spokesman, we refused a defence counsel forthright. As for the other
group who betrayed the Party - SANO, NABEYAMA,  ITAMURA, TAKEHASHI, and
SUGIURA - jointly started a second trial.
There was a striking contrast between these two trials. This time,
since there was no one like SANo and others to interfere on our side, we
were able to attack the inconsistency of the prosecutor's written evidence
and testify as we pleased. On the other hand, SANo's group vigorously
praised the Emperor System in court and stirred up the reactionary atmos-
phere on the outside through the trial. After such a court struggle a
judgment was finally passed on 17 October. "Ten years imprisonment. Period
awaiting trial - 40 days".
"e had already spent six years awaiting trial but even in calculating
the period pending trial, the judges tried to be as mean as possible.
ABASHIRA and Tce Confetti
Suddenly, near the end of December of that year, we were scheduled
for shipment to HOKKAIDO. It was decided that SHIGA alone would be sent to
Hakodate Prison while the rest of us - ICHIKAWA, KOKURIO, and myself -

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
would be sent to Abashiri Prison. I was taken to UEvo station 
police-wagon and put on the train. when I arrived in ABASHIRI,
was the 27th, almost the end of the year. All of HokkAIDO was
in.
I arrived at the prison just at the time when all the inmates
a wooder floor, and it was in this room that they were being given hair-
cuts amid din and noise. I knew immediately that KOKURIO was there be-
cause I recognized his voice. He had arrived four or five days before
me.
Since ABASHIRI is so cold, as everyone knows, even the prison
structure is quite different from others. The roof is very low, and
all the openings are completely sealed. The most amusing thing is that
there is a hole cut out in the partition between the cell and the corrider
for heating purposes. Because of this opening, if anyone talks to him-
self very loudly, he can be heard all over the place. If one shouts just
a little, his voice travels about twenty or thirty KEN (TN 40 or 60 yards).
Therefore, so long as one had the courage, it was a simple matterfor him
to communicate with his comrades whenever necessary by utilizing this
method. Therefore, in this respect, it was very convenient.
As far as prisons go, the food was comparatively plentiful. With-
in the prison grounds there were 13 CHOBU (TN 31.85 acres) of paddy
fields and 450 to 460 CH0BU (TN 1,102.5 to 1,127 acres) of cultivated land
including the various fields. The rice crops did not do very well but
pumpkins and Irish potatoes did so well that we got tired of them. There
was also a fairly large area of forestland so we were hardly inconvenienced
by lack of fuel. Therefore, life in Abashiri Prison, as far as prison
life goes was comparatively easy except for the cold.
All I can say is that it was very cold. The indescribable cold
which chilled us to our very bones, still makes me feel cold when I recall
the six years I spent in ABASHIRI.
In mid-winter, it is not unusual for the temperature to drop to 30
degress below zero (TN centigrade). On those days even in the cells with
the heating system, thermometers read eight or nine degrees below zero.
The moment a person's breath comes in contact with the wall, it turns into
ince and forms a countless number of ice confetti. They do not form on
the walls alone. If one is not careful they form on the eye-brows and even
at the end of the nose. Unless one was always careful to continuously
massage his nose, it would become mushy like a burn and gangrene would set
in。
At nights, we changed from the customary very short red work clothes
to nightshirts to go to bed, but, before changing, we had to break up some
ice and give ourselves a complete rub-down with the cold water thus ob-
tained. If this was neglected and one put on his nightshirt frozen stiff
by the below zero temperatuve, he would immediately catch cold and develop
pneumonia. "hen going to bed, one always had to crawl under the covers
head and all. Sleeping with the head under the cover is prohibited in
prisons because of the chance of suicide, but we could not be concerned
about such regulations. If a person slept with his head outside of the
covers, he suffered frostbite around his mouth during his sleep through the
breath he exhaled. The newcomers from JPAAN proper almost invariably slept
with their heads outside in the beginning as compelled by the officials,
so they got frostbite right away.
"hen sleeping with the head under the covers it would seem logical
that the exhaled breath would escape through some opening but instead it
froze and stuck to the comforter itself near the opening. For this parti-
cular reason, they had a special comforter drying room at Abashiri Prison
25

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
where they had dried them with steam abe
not do this, another layer of iee woulaf
cases, reach a thickness of one SUN (Tn I.2 à
was bitterly cold. I shall not forget the morning
February, two years after I went to ABASHIRI. I woko p
get up but I just couldn't get up. I had neuralgie palas all
my body which felt as if a drill was boring into my and I just
stand up. I could not even go to the chamber which was nearby wit
the cell. With help from another person, I finally made it. I wes
carried to the infirmary where I was given injections in my let, arm,
hips. After that, for about a week, I could not move at all and stayed
in bed. A week later I finally managed to get up but even since then
neuralgia has been one of my chronic ailments.
Within one and one-half years after that Empire Day morning, my
right wrist got so that it could not be moved. My whole right arm from
the shoulder joint to the tips of my fingers became numb and paralysed.
It remained in this condition for about a year, and during that time,
I did not do any work. Even now my right arm is not completely well and
it serves as a reminder of my life in ABASHIRI.
Farming within the Prison Grounds
Abashiri Prison is located in the mountains outside of the town of
ABASHIRI and, like all prisons in HOKKAIDO, it is very big. It is claimed
to be six RI (TN 16.64 miles) from one end to the other. When the officials
go on patrol, they don riding habits and ride horse. In the main building
where I was confined there were about 8oo inmates while in Annex No. 1
there were 250 or 260, and in remotely situated Annex No. 2 there were
about 60, making a total of approximately 1,200 convicts.
Withing this large prison area there were various types of work pro-
vided for the convicts. First, there were 13 CHOBU of paddy-fields and
about 450 CHOBU of other farmland, as stated previously. There were sawmills
where we made luiber ouf ot the timber that was felled in the mountains and
work shops for making furniture and other articles from this lumber. There
were also places to make charcoal.
There were 500 head of sheep from which homespun clothing was made
and 60 or 70 head of milch cows. We had a butter factory, but some of the
milk was sold directly. There were also 300 or 400 head of hogs which were
being shipped out at that time as food for war. There were as many as 500 or 600
rabbits which were used for leather and food. Furthermore, the prison is
situated by a lake, so there was also fishing. There was a motor boat in
operation on the lake and a small harbor for loading and unloading materisls.
Other than these, there were factories for manufacturing daily necessities,
including all food, clothing, and shelter. In short, the entire prison area
was like a daimiate.
In this "prison domain" the 1200 convicts comprised the workers,
who were worked to the very bond. The work done by this convict labor was
mainly farming. Horses were used for cultivation. Not only the fields
but even the paddy-fields were actually just large expanses of land and the
crops were so poor that it was considered good if there was one crop every
three years. In the first place, the seeds did not sprout, and, even if
they had finally sprouted, they only grew about one foot high and did not
even form ears. Even if they grew about one and one-half feet high and
formed ears, the rice produced was pithy and wasn't worthy of being called
rice. Thus, if one and one-half HYO (TN 2.99 bushels) or two HYO (TN 3.98
bushels) were harvested from one TAMBU (TN .245 acre), it was considered
a record-breaking crop. In the first place, it was a mistake to try to
grow rice in such a cold place, but they say that the Govemment was using
Abashiri Prison as an experimental ground to determine whether or not rice
could be grown in the northern areas. That was the reason we were told to
try to raise rice regardless of whether it would grow or not or whether
both ends would meet or not. Experiementation was indeed an excellend
idea; however, there was an inadmissible deception in the fact that this
experiment was forced in order to make the convicts work and sweat most un-

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
reasonably. This work was as useless and as ridiculems as
water in a bottomless bucket and naturally reduced the reve
prison. The direct result of this was poorer treatment for the
the paddy fields. when weeding, we would purposely pull up the rice
work and refust to allow us to go in the paddy fields.  With this
in mind, the convicts used this trick frequently because, in ABASHIRI
where, even in midsummer, summer weight clothes are not worn and witer
bedding is usdd, the work of weeding itself is very cold and trying.
HOYKAIDO's summer fog is well renowmed. This fog occurs when the
warm current and the cold current meets. In the Abashiri area it is
especially dense, blanketing the entire district with a fine drizzle.
They call this fog "gas" and no one can foretell when this "gas"
will come in. Furthermore, once this "gas" engulfs the area, even in the
midsummer months of July and August, everyone has to wear quilted clothes.
Therefore, one cannot afford to be absent-minded and sleep in summer bed-
ding. As for clothes, lined clothing is worn throughout the summer.
Rice cannot be grown but, on the other hand, pumpkins, cucumbers,
SHOGOIN DAIKON (TB a type of raliin), and eggplants were raised in
prodigious quantities. when there was a good crop, we were fed so much
of those vegetables that we got tired of them. We were fed pumpkins every
day three times a day until we were suffering from heartburn and finally
our faces turned yellow.
Flowers at the Prison
My cell was the one next to the entrance and KOKURIO was at the
opposite end of the same row of cells. In the view from iy cell window
there was a big grassy plain and beyond that were gently-sloped mountains.
"ith each seasonal change those mountains and the plains changed in appear
ance. In our lonely cells day in and day out, this peaceful view was the
greatest solace for me and also for KOKURIO.
This view was especially beautiful in the spring. "hen the long cold
winter came to an end, spring first appeared with the budding of the trees.
The trees here and there put forth their young buds with radiant beauty.
That beautiful verdure can never be seen in HONSuU. Every time I looked
at this view, I said to myself, "I doubt if there is any painter in HONSHU
who would be able to b ring out all this color".
As soon as the snow melted, the butterburs and the dandelions began
to shoot up and thrive. In fact, they grew bigger every day, everytime I
looked at them and in a month's time, they were as big as those in HONSHU
after three or four months. The butterbur grew as high as five or six
feet. Even the low, striped bamboo thickets grew high enough for a person
to hide in.
nandelions were small but they covered the entire place with yellow
blossoms and were very beautiful. Beyond the dandelions, the sunplants
covered the plains like a carpet. There were red ones, yellow ones, and
purple ones. Among these various colored grasses and flowers played rabbits
with their round, white bodies - rabbits which were being raised at the
prison. That was indeed a beauty which tooke me on the wings of fancy and
momentarily freed me from the confines of the prison walls.
Sewing and Spinning
At first, my work in prison was darning army gloves (sewing the elastic
wrist onto the hand part). Being clumsy, I never became skillful in that
work. After that, I did quite a bit of other types of sewing work, such as
stitching rags, TABI (TN bifurcated socks), and sewing underwear. At first
I was also very poor at sewing on the soles of the TABI, which is done with

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
four ply thread but, as I worked I gradually
I finally attained the level of an artist. Taking
one pari of TABI, I placed various kinds of thread in front
worked conscientiously. Admiring the fin artistic petit-point
fellow-inmates and the guards often praised my work by saying, *It
hard to believe that it was sewn with only one needle".
After my arm became paralyzed, I did only such work as spinning
yarn and cleaning cotton. This was very easy work because it was very
warm while working with large quantities of cotton and other materials
in my lap.
Although our work clothes came down only to our knees, there were
more cases of frostbite around the waist and thighs than in the parts
which were exposed, such as the hands and feet. These parts of our
anatomy were not affected at all. I was happy since I was able to pre-
vent frostbite by wrapping cotton around me while I worked. My comrade
cHIGA said that he worked as a ne-maker in the prison at HAkODATE but
they let us serve out term with needle work. Because of this, I can
still sew my own underwear and lined clothes, and if it is something like
mending TABI or putting cotton in comforters, I find it very simple,
even today.
Struggle Against War of Aggression
These routine occupied our daily living, but even while doing needle
work, wa had not by any means forgotten our struggle against the imperial-
ists. Watching JAPAN being led closer and closer to the depths of des-
truction, we became so indignant that we finally could sit back no longer
without clamoring against war of aggression. Those cries practically died
out without being heard outside of the prison but even then we continued
to clamor persistently.
wewere always able to foresee what the imperialits were planning
to do even before they knew, and we knew exactly where they, with their
bloody hands, would ultimately lead the Japanese people. pecause of the
very fact that we were foreseeing all this, we clamored constantly against
their policy of a war of aggression, and for this purpose we fought on
the outside, in the courts, and also continued to fight even while in
prison.
Going back a few years, we also foresaw, for example, the Manchurian
Incident. "hen the LIUTIAOKOU Incident occurred, I happened to be testi-
fying on the youth problem in the TokYo District Court. Anit-aggression
was in the long run the main issue involved in the youth problem. Because
of the great panic in the early part of 1930, the people were leading a
very wretched life at that time. One truck load of farm produce was not
even worth one "shikishima" cigarette. "orker's were being dismissed left
and right and a daily wage of 50 sen was average. An unemployment relief
projests 30 sen or 50 sen at most was the average pay. For the imperialists
such social conditions were most suitable for stirring up the people towards
a war of aggression. I pointed out this fact in court, and concluded that
the Japanese imperialists were gradually preparing for aggression even if they
were not actually doing so with arms and that in certain ways they had al-
ready commenced hostilities in a war of aggression in MANCHURIA and CHINA.
However, while I was relating all this, I began to hear cries of "extra"
on the streets. From where I was located, I did not know, of course,
what the "estra" was about but it was the announcement of the outbreak of the
Manchurian Incident. Everything was happening as we had predicted. Further
more, even the outcome of this aggression was very dear. When I thought about
the people and the State, I could not help but feel sad.
28

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
After MANCHURIA, it was CHINA. Japanese invision of OHY
when we were about to begin our third summer at ABASHIRI, and
aggression was nothing more than something which was bound to oeour
sooner or later. After succeeding in the invasion of MANCHURIA, the
happy Japanese imperialists incited the people with the words, "Not
that we have taken all of MANCHURIA, JAPAN's farm population problem
will be completely solved with their moving to MANCHURIA from the over
crowded farms in JAPAN. Moreover, farm products will be plentiful, and
there will be no more suffering from lack of iron or coal. Hereafter,
things will be easier for the Japanese people". They were famming the
flame of war among the people. However, even at this time, we pointed
out the fact that the problems of the farmers would be far from being
solved. Even if the Japanese should go to MANCHURIA, the agricultural methods
used by them would not do at all. Furthermore, attempts were being mmde
to send the emigrants farther and farther north for the sake of national
defense, so they said, However, they would be worse yet farming in the
northern regions. Even if they did raise anything, railway shipping,
charges to such distant points as DAIREN would be so expensive that there
would be very little profit. On the other hand, if farm products from
MANCHURIA flooded JAPAN, it would make it all the more worse for the
farmers. Therefore, with the seizure of MANCHURIA the Japanese farmers
were only becoming more miserable. Furthermore, as for raw materials for
heavy industries such as iron and coal, it was true that they were plenti-
ful in MANCHURIA but they were not near enough at hand to satisfy the
greedy Japanese imperialists. We foresaw the fact that the arm of
aggression would extend into CHINA following MANCHURIA as a natural con-
sequence and increase suffering among the people. We pointed out the
fact that the imperialists' propaganda consisted of domright lies and fought
against them. Even after we were sent to ABASHIRI, we gave warnings of
this fact at every opportunity. But, the imperialists, branding us as
traitors, shoved us into the background of society. Meanwhile progressing
steadily as they had planned, they finally took the decisive step towards
destruction -- the invasion of CHINA.
If the invasion of CHINA is regarded as a natural consequence of the
invasion of MANCHURIA, then the Pacific War was a natural consequence of
the invasion of CHINA. Since we knew this fact, beginning in 1937, we
issued repeated warnings from within the confines of the prison that the
invasion of CHINA could not possibly be successful and that it was the
same as if the Japanese militarists had stepped into a mud-hole - the
more they struggled the deeper they would sink. Therefore, unless they
were to withdraw immediately from CHINA and MANCHURIA, they would draw
JAPAN into a war against the rest of the world. However, the crazy im-
perilists, who were absorbed in their criminal warfare, not being able to
realize CPNA's actual power, ultimately placed the Stats and the people
in their present plight.
The information which we were able to obtain while in prison was
negligible but, even then, we knew definitely that things would progress
in such a manner. Just like filling in the blue-penciled passages in
prohibited writings, no matter how much the Tmperial Government tried to
conceal the truth, it was an easy matter, with a little bit of information,
for those who accurately foresaw the future to fit the pieces together and
complete the picture. Moreover, it was very trying for us to watch the
situation progressing in just the opposite direction from that which wehad
hoped for and just sit back doing needle-work, not being able to lift a
finger to stop it.
The Oppressed Understood Best
Although the imperialists and the higher prison officials who were their
tools failed to understand our stand to the end, there were many among the
junior guards and fellow-prisoners who in course of time began to understand
our true motives and to observe the war situation critically. I think this
29

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
is a very vital point. Although they were not what one
educated, being subjected to real oppression because of
were able through direct contact to understand the logle that
for the banefit of imperialists and capitalists and only resulttir
further hardship and suffering for the people.
In prison the policy was suddenly changed after JAPAN invaded CHINA
Up that time we were rearely allowed to read even the newspepers, but
after that they broadcase the war news over the public address system and
efen permitted us to listen to the radio. It was a positive policy to
incite war fever. The radio was full of propaganda. Of course they
claimed ivictory after victory for JAPAN. In addition they repeatedly
propagated the fairness of JAPAN's stand and the culpability of CHINA.
To counteract this, we talked to our fellow prisoners. We warned them not
to glorify this war before the true facts had been ascertained and told
them that they must acquire a full understanding of the true nature of
this war by thorough study of the facts as they gradually came to light.
We explained to them that the war was an aggressive war deliberately
engineered by JAPAN's imperialists, that the military was making light
of CHINA's power but that that was a mistake and that the war would con-
tinue on and on until JAPAN got herself involved in war against the
rest of the world whihh could only mean JAPAN's destruction; and that
for these reasons we must combine our strength and carry out an anti-war
movement to fight against such aggressive warfare and strive to prevent
the raination of our homeland.
To be sure, most of them disagreed in the beginning. The convicts
who had just come out of military service used all the abuse language
they knew against us. However, just as we had predicted, the truth
gradually began to come to light. The war situation became increasingly
unfavorable in addition to which the activities of Japanese Army and the
capitalists on the continent gradually came to light, so they too becams
critical and began to seek the truth. And, when we explained the incon-
sistency of JAPAN in drawing the backdrop of the war, they being victims
of such inconsistency themselves could not help but realize the truth of
every point we made. Thus, they began to listen more intently to what
we had to say. Infavt, some of the prisoners who had been servicemen be
came the most enthusiastic speakers against war.
The thing which brought this change of heart on the part of our
fellow-prisoners even more quickly was the fact that the tempo of labor
within the prison was accelerated as the war progressed. The same was
true of the outside world, but it was even more noticeable in prison. We
fought this also with all our efforts. I have always objected to ex-
ploitation of prisoners and workers in the interest of war. In a war of
aggression, the military and financial cliques became more powerful by
not only killing foreigners and stealing from them but also by sacrificing
their own people's lives and exploiting them. In the prison, such ex-
ploitation was enforced very openly and very stringently, and it became
so that even those who had glorified the war at the start were gradually
forced into reconsidering the real significance of the situation.
The enforcement of labor was truly inhuman. Under the guise of national
emergency, we were compaled to make gloves for the army, ammunition boxes,
haversacks for the nevy, and sll kinds of sacks and even airplane parts.
We were often forced to work 24 hours without let up.
Kindhearted Prisoners
Although we were thrown into prison we did not have the slightest feel-
ing of repentance. Indeed, we even continued our anti-war movement within
the prison. Consequently, the higher prison officials muet have regarded
us as their arch enemies. They brought undue pressure on us both directly
and indirectly. Our fellow prisoners were our true and sincere friends.
When they got into trouble, we always defended them inergetically, so in re-
turn, they treated us with kindness.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
The following incldent will särve
the time of the NOMONHAN Inoident.In th
to hold meedings to compose HAIKU and TANKA (TN Ja
chant sutras as a means of diversion to take our mind
able war news. However, there was a provisary clause
Communists would not be allowed to participate. Although I am
talent, but being sarcastic by nature, I can compose SEnRYU (TN
cal poem).
So one day I read one which I had composed on my own before the
crowd and, although I can't recall that it was now, some part must have
been funny because they all burst out laughing. However, I was imsediately
called before the Chief Jailer for disturbing the peace and for the inso-
lence of making others laugh and was sentenced to 5 days of reduced rations,
5 days suspension of exercise, and barred from reading books for two months.
I protested that I had no recollection of having disturged the peace and
demanded proof. The Chief Jailer immediately called in the prisoners who
were with me, but, of course, not a one of them admitted having "created a
disturbance". He seemed to be bothered by this, but being a ruthless
person, he said that no proof was needed and proceed to enforce the
sentence.
Prohibition of reading books for two months is really unreasonable but
the reduction of rations for 5 days is also a very stiff penalty. Under
"reduced rations" all the food a person received was cooked barley spread
about the thickness of a wafer on the bottom of the container and proportionately
reduced servings of side dishes. In short, it was almost like fasting and
a person couldn't bear it for five days. I suppose the Chief Jailer's idea
was to teach me a lesson. However, if that was his intention, he didn't
succeed because I did not suffer in the least. In a case like this, our
fellow prisoners became eager to help us because they understood our feel-
ings and knew that we were their friends. Since cooked rice was distributed
in front of guards, therewas little we could do about that, but they used
to sneak two large steel soup bowls of side dished - one full of pumpkins
or potatoes and one full of soup stock. For that reason, I was able to
remain in good health even after five days of reduced rations without
suffering much even though the amount of cooked rice was meager.
There was one more incident which I can recall concerning the treachery
of prison officials. I had been writing faithfully to my cousin from the
time I was in ICHIGAYA and even after my transfer to ABASHIRI but the one
which I wrote immediately upon arriving in ABASHIRI was published in KAIZO
(TN a magazine). Since our family was poor and they felt that the contents
of the letter would be interesting, they sold it to KAIzO. (It seems that
they received 50 yen for the manuscript). It did attract a lot of interest
and turned out to be a huge success. However, the prison authorities who
disapproved of this, probably as a means of retaliation, spread rumors
that under my leadership, ICHIKA"A, KOKURIO, and two or three others bolted
the Party. That news was immediately published in all the newspapers.
This happend in the fall of 1935.
Of course, I had no idea that such a thing had been taking place, but
I learned of it one day when I went to see a dentist to have a tooth
treated. The dentist asked me, "How did it feel to bolt the Party?" I
asked him, "Tho bolted the Party?", whereupon I was told "It came out in
the newspapers that you had bolted the Party!" As I made further inquiries,
I learned the facts which I have stated above. This left me completely
dumbfounded. I assialed the prison authorities immediately and demanded
to know who had made such remarks. As the result the head of prison as-
sumed the responsibility and was trensferred. They do these cowardly things
believing that we are helpless because we are in prison. Previously when
SANO and NABEYAMA renounced the Party, it was rumored that I had bolted also,
and my younger brother came all the way from the RyUkYUS to see me. Their
reprehensible and sordid acts are unspeakable.
The case of comrades who died in Prison
Everytime I recall prison life in ABASHIRI, I cannot help but think of

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
our comrades who were murdered half-intentionally b
cold-blooded imperialists. Both comrades ICHIKAWA and KURUO
unto death despite bodies wracked with pain.
Comrade ICHIKAwA was seized with tho severe neuralgia due to
ABASHIRI's cold weather. This neuralgia affected his digestion and
he constantly suffered from diarrhea. Although he was mere skin and
bones and almost beyond recognition, he did not utter a single complaint.
Staring out of sunken eyes, he fought against the cruelty of the prison
authorities, always taking sides with the prisoners. About January 1940,
just prior to our transfer from ABASHIRI to CHIBA Prison, he caught a
cold which developed into pneumonia. And being in a weakened condition
already, it got worse immediately and for a time he was in a comatose
condition. The story of those days is really interesting in that it is
so typical of him. Because of his serious condition, he was transferred
from his cell to the hospital ward by the authorities. When he lapsed
into a coma, the persons who rejoiced were the Chief Jailer andthe
prison's priest. They took it for granted that he was dead and immediately
sent a telegram to his family, burned incense, and chanted sutras. But
while they were in the midst of chanting these sutras with all the outward
appearances of sincerety, the dead man suddenly came to life. And as
soon as he had finished surveying his surroundings, this "reincarnated"
barked out, "you fools". We were surprised and at the same time happy to
see our supposedly dead comrade shouting like mad as was his wont even
though weakened from illness. The Buddhist priest and the chief jailer
stopped thir grieving act. They were so shocked that color drained from
their faces instantly. ICHIKAWA felt that his life was endangered as
long as he ramained in the hospital and insisted upon returning to his
former cell. He came back to our place shortly after this incident.
However, the treatment in the prison was merciless, even toward a person
who was gravely ill. He asked for a hot water bag, so we scurried all
over the prison, but they wouldn't give us one. The only thing they did
was to give him additional night clothes, so our patient had to seep with-
out a hot water bag even in HOKKIADO's January weather. But, even under
such adverse condi tions, ICHIKAWA never ceased fighting, and aided by his
indomitable spirit, he finally overcame the pneumonia.
About three months later, in April, we were transferred to a prison
in CHIRA but even these ICHIKAWA hardly ate at all. He only sipped rice
gruel. He had bad teeth and had to have all this teeth removed and re-
placed with false teeth. This made it even more difficult for him to eat
solid food. Nevertheless, he was always in good spirits and worked
regularly even when it was obvious that he was in great pain. He was a
man of fortitude and endurance, and a man worthy of great respect.
Comrade KOKURIA was a very strait-laced individual, a person who
absolutely refused to tolerate any wrong. In prison, he constantly
fought against the officials with a righteous and firm attitude. He too
had trouble with is stomach because of a combination of arduous work and
cold weather. His digestion was bad and he suffered from constipation.
He had no appetite because of his constipation and he suffered constantly
from a heavy stomach. However, in spite of all his suffering, he always
managed to maintain a lofty and awe-inspiring attitude to match his
spirit. The prison officials tried to take advantage of his extreme
physical weakness to induce him to renounce the Party. They summoned his
younger brother, but, as it turned out, KOKURIA gave his brother a severe
tongue lashing.
He was transferred to NARA in 1940 but when we last parted he was
mere skin and bone and had the paleness associated with the dead. His
condition grew steadily worse and he finally passed away in OSAKA.
32

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
In the first instance, it is tantamount to a
all over my body and became completely lame for a wiile.
my condition improved gradually until toward the end of my term
being transferred to CHIBA and from there to TOkYO, I regained th
of my hands although even that was far from normal. I don't know
might have happened if I had been left at ABAsHIRI, conditions what th
were.
The thing that I resented most bitterly was the treatment the Emperor
government acccrded ZAIBATSU and right-wing prisoners. When I first
entered TOYOTAMA, OGAWA Heikichi came in to serve two years. However,
on the following day, he was transferred to the hospital where there was
greater freedom and where he could get special food. After a week or two
in the hospital his sentence was suspended and he was released on the
grounds of poor heath. It was so easy for him. All he had to do was to
put in an appearance at the prison. Also about the same time, IWASHITA
Shuhei, a follower of KATSURA Taro, and former President of the NANIWA
Bank in OSAKA, came to TOYOTAMA to serve a six-year sentence for em-
bezzlement. He was also given a suspended sentence after three or four
days through the influence of KATSURA and ZAIBATSU interests. He remained
for a long time in the foothills of Mt. FUJI, but nothing further came of
this case. Cases like these were not uncommon.
we who had fought for the right were sent to prison because of poor
laws. I won't go into that here. But the thing which I couldn't swallow
was this discrimination. Both comrade ICHIKAWA and Comrade KOKURIO were
literally on the verge of death in ABASHIRI. Even then, the Imperial
Government made no move to release them but actually kept them until they
died. This is a fitting commentary on the real nature of the Emperor's
Government. It would not be amiss to say that shipment to ABASHIRI con-
stituted a planned execution.
Reading in the Prison
Reading was limited to four books per month. One additional book was
authorized if a special request was put in, but under no circumstances
were we allowed more than five.
In addition to the books for ordinary convicts, there were special
books for those convicted on "dangerous thoughts", and we were supposed
to be allowed to read more of these than the ordinary convicts. We wanted
to read more of such books because there were occasionally a few good ones
among them. But, when we asked for them, they wouldn't let us have them.
They let mostly renunciants read them and tried to keep them from us
as much as possible. Therefore, if a person wanted to borrow a book he
really wanted to read, he first had to befriend the guards in charge of
the library.
Although I am far from being a superior being, I became the legal ad-
visor for the guards, using the knowledge I had gained as a humble lawyer.
Since they were low ranking officials, most of them had all sorts of
difficulties in making their living. There were all kinds of complicated
cases. Some were burdened by debts, some had been evicted from their
homes, and others had sent their children to service. I listened to all
their troubles and gave them friendly advice. Their problems were not
confined to legal problems alone. As the war progressed, I was called upon
more and more as an economic advisor. Although prices increased by leaps
and bounds, the wages of these guards remained at the starvation level and
their living conditions became more and more critical. To help these
people, I even had to show them how edonomics governed their lives. In
general, I advised them to buy cotton yard goods right away or buy mechanical
goods like radios and watches. I also explained future economics prospects.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
Since my predictions came true they were pleased andb
respect for me. They even began to do little favore for.
stance, in this matter, I was able to borrow and read the JAPAs
Year Book, a volume which I could never have obtained ordin
course, I was only able to borrow one of these special books per
In the beginning, I chose books concerning Buddhism and the Japaneme
classics to read. Even those books are very instructive depending on
the way they are read. Take a book on Buddhism, for instance. If one
reads very carefully, he can clearly discern even amidst the mase of
edifying phrases how Buddhism has always served the ruling classes through
the ages and how it was used as a tool to maintain thir power. He can even
begin to comprehend the mysterious relationships between Buddhism and sex
and between Buddhism and morals. Incidentally, the thing that stmuck me
as being funny and nonsensical was the direction in which Paradise is to be
found. Today, it is known as Westward Paradise, whereas it was originally
to the east. This change to the west was an opportunistic one. There is
no limit if one pays his respects to all such nonsense, since all so-called
religions invariable contained it.
When one reads the KOJIKI or the NIHON SHOKI (TN ancient Japanese
classics) two or three times, one can clearly distinguish between the
parts that are true and the parts which were altered by the ruling class
which compiled these words in order to lend themselves prestige. The
section on Emperor NINOTOKU' is a typical example. It is claimed that this
Emperor was touched by the people's wretched life and exempted them from
offering tributes for three years. However, when one reads carefully the
section of the KOJIKI in which this is mentioned, one can not help but
notice how disorganized and corrupted his private life was. It was custom-
ary for all Emperors of that time to maintain many mistresses and to summon
any beautiful woman they might hear about regardless of the distances in-
volved, but in his case, two of his mistresses were step-ssters. Even
before he became Emperor, he became infatuated witn a beauty named
KAMINAGAHIIE whom his father, the Emperor OJIN had tried, to summon for
himself from HYUGA. He finally made her his own mistress. Later on he told
the Emperor that he wanted a woman named YATANO"AKIIRATSUME as his mistress
but was refused, whereupon he acceded for a time, but in the end he ac-
hieved his goal during the absence of the Empress while she was away on a
trip to KII. He killed his brother and a woman (another step-sister) ac-
cusing them of conspiring against him, because he antagonized them and
couldn't get along with them. Indeed, there was no limit to his im-
morality. Since this much was true, it stands to reason that financial
conditions were in hopeless disorder and the people's suffereings must
have been extreme. In addition to that, Japanese society was undergoing a
great transition in those days. It was in the era when new culture and
goods were flowing in through KOREA. Internally, it was an age when lage
scale public works programs, using slaves under a primitive slave system,
were being carried out. With these things going on, the expenditures must
certainly have mounted and I don't doubt that the National Treasury was
completely exhausted. It is my opinion, therefore, that the reason he
cancelled the tribute for three years was because there was no possible way
of collecting them. It could hardly be thought of as the bestowal of a
favor in view of the fact that he was responsible for exhausting the
National Treasury. I am convinced that if he had tried to collect taxes,
the people would have revolted.
Although I disgressed more than Texpected to, I read the KOJIKI the
NIHON SHOKI anf the pornographic literature and the histories of the
HEIAN Era and other classics with this point of view in mind. I also
read many current books in my lisure moments. The militaristic litera-
ture which was so prevalent during the war was interesting because in
clearly showed the process of gradual deterioration of the internal
organi ation of Japanese imperialism.
34

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
Of the Occidental books, I read a few on Chre
were the run of the mill kind. Therewas nothingt
in moments of seriousness. Although I read a littlo of
preferred the books concerning Japan.
Later, when I learned to take an interest in natural seience, I oon-
centrated wholly on that subject. Beginning with moteorology and
oceanography, I gradually axpanded and read all the books on construotie
engineering shipbuilding, machinery, farming techniques, ete. There was
a comparatively large number of these books and since they dealt with
pure natural science, the prison authorities approved readily. I was
also able to read dessertations on industrial management although, strict-
ly speaking, they cover the subject of exploitation.
On Becoming a Weather Expert
Even today I am a bit of an expert on weather forcasting. I learned
this during my stay in ABASHIRI. The method I used is the so-called
observation method, and I managed to make an accurate weather forecast
for any given day without using any instruments, merely by observing the
movement of the clouds. It was rather a primitave method, but still it
did have some scientific basis. There were many weather experts in
ABASHIRI Prison as I mentioned earlier, ABASHIRI has a lake in back and
looks directly on the ocean. Being located at the point where the
JAPAN current and the cold current come together, the weather is ex-
tremely changeable, often changing completely within a matter of two
hours. Since the prison had a vast area of land in such a location and
since farming was done, the weather was always in the minds of both
guards and prisoners. Moreover, the bedding became damp and flat from
gas in the summer and had to be taken out constantly to dry. In order to
dry the bedding, it was necessary to select a nice day but since the
weather was so changeable that it was a source of constant worry. For
these various reasons, weather forecasting became of prime importance
and, consequently, many "weather experts" gathered daily and discussed the
weather to see who would make the most accurate forecast.
Since I was only permittedto read four or five books each month, I
found too much spare time on my hands, so I decided to study the skies.
wy reasoning at first was that if I gazed at the skies, I could never be
accused of disturbing the peace; however, I became more and more interested
until finally I became absorbed meteorology.
Aside from subscribing for six or seven years to the magazine, mreather
and Climate", which was published by the Central Meteorological Observatory,
I read books written by FUJI"ARA Sakukei and OKADA Takematsu. In addition,
I read books on oceanography since that subject was related to meteorology
in addition to a magazine called, "Marine Science", which I read for one
year. I progressed from the study of the relationships between the condi-
tions of seashore and atmospheric phenomena to the study of the relation-
ships between wind velocity and the weather, between atmospheric pheno-
mena and rainfall, between atmospheric phenomena and the weather, and be-
tween atmospheric phenomena and agriculture. As my studies progressed, I
became more and more interested in the whole field of natural science.
The war in the PACIFIC started after I was transferred to a prison in
HONsHU. The radio discontinued broadcasting weather reports shortly after
war started and I became very useful because there were not many weather
experts on HONSHU. At the same time, it made forecasting more difficult
for me since I was no longer able to use the weather broadcast as a
reference. I wrote down the temperatures and atmospheric changes daily
at fixed times - in the morning when I got up, at noon, at 1400 hours,
and again when I retired for the night. Since I didn't have a watch, I
had to depend on the bells used in prison to announce reveille and meals
to make my notatiohs. In this manner, I finally stored up knowledge as a
weather expert. I still have the six or seven notebooks which I kept at
that time.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
Motrorology and the other subjects whiehI
tainly came in handly.
CHIBA, KOSUGE, TOYOTAMA and FUCHU
In this way, I spent over five full years, from the latter part of
1934 until the spring of 1940, in ABASHTRI Prison. In April 194 I
transferred to HONSHU and confined in CHIBA Prison. Comrade SHIGA,
had been at HAkODATE, was also transferred there and we rejoiced over
our re-union after more than five years of separation. Living conditions
in CHIBA were even worse than in HOKKAIDO. The soupwas nothing more than
colored water and was a miserable concotion having no stock. The only
compensating factor in my new prison life was the breath of spring.
I was kept at CHIBA for over a year and was then transferred to
KOSUGE in September 194l, where I finished serving my sentence on 20
December of the same year. Actually, I had not served out my original
sentence, but the previous year (1940) having been the 2600th anniversary
for JAPAN, I had been granted a remission of one year and ten months. Of
course, we had been awaiting trial for six years, on top of which we had
been sentenced to ten years, so in reality it could hardly be called a
remission.
We were to be placed in another type of prison called a detention
center, since we could not be kept in prison once we had completed our
terms. On 21 December, just after the Pacific was started and while we
were excited over the news of victories, I was sent to the Toyotama
Prison at NAKANO. I was there until just before the war's end, 29 June
to be exact. From there, I was sent to the detention center in FUCHU and
the war ended after I had been there a little more than a month.
The four years we spend in the detention center constituted a period
when those in the outside world felt the pinch of acute shortages of goods
and a time when everyone, except for the priviliged class, suffered ex-
treme need and poverty.
Prison life can hardly be expected to be easy in such times, but even
after taking that into consideration, I must say that conditions in our
prison were horrible. Many of our comrades dies from undernourishment.
Just as officials of munitions firms robbed their workers, so did the
prison officials rob the inmates. Inasmuch as the supplies of a prison
are always limited, it really hurt us to have the prison officials take
part of our share to fatten their own selves. e might have put up with
it if they had stopped at stealing sweet potatoes,but when the higher
officials stooped so low as to steal the meager prison meal of the common
prisoner without a sign of shame, we felt sorry for them for their
greediness more than we felt anger at the injustice. They would make a
false report of the number of persons to the distribution center. They
would load the extra food thus acquired onto trucks and peddle it without
a sign of concern. They took anything and everything that was supposed to
be for the prisoner's use, from work gloves and textile yard goods to
MISO, soy sauce, salt and oil. As the air raids increased in intensity,
the practice of stealing light bulbs became more prevalent. There was
even the case of the person who volunteered to remain behand and listen
to radio reports during an air raide and successfully walked away with
vacuum tubes. Dishonesty and the corruption knew no limits. We could
tell how the war was progressing from the degree with such drimes were
manifest, and knew that the day when we would be out of prison and able to
work for the reconstruction of JAPAN now devastated and corrupt, was draw-
ing near.
36

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
Final Days of the War
Throughout our nearly one score years of prison life, wer
lieved that the day would come when we would take an active part
rescue the Japanese people from their state of ruin, and how we could
build up a new democratic society. Of course, while we were at ABAsHIRr,
such thinking and such planning had an air of fantasy. However, oncew
returned to HoNSHU, these were no longer dreams not after the war in the
PAGIFIC started and the course of the war progressed as we had predicted,
even then nearing its final phases.
As the air raids became more intense, we again took up this problem
for final consideration and studies and planned it as minutely and as
practically as wes within our power. We would seek out opportunities
to exchange ideas and studied our plans carefully so that we would not
make any mistakes. Thanks to the air raids, following our transfer to
FUCHU, we were very fortunate in that we were allowed to read newspapers
in prison, and above all, we were given frequent opportunities to speak
to each other. we were able to rebuild the Japan Communist Party, publish
a Party organ, and conduct vigorous activities immediately after our re-
lease from prison on 10 October only because we had been able to make com-
plete preparations while we were stil in prison. For instance, the articles
"An Appeal to the People" and "Our Immediate Policies", which appeared in
the first issue of AKAHATA were written in prison. We anticipated that
the government and capitalists would try to disrupt production. We also
felt that if labor was to nullify their disruptive influence and rebuild
JAPAN's industry, we would have to discontinue the past practice of
settling disputes only through strikes and plan instead to gain control of
management. me, therefore, made those plans in prison. This also appears
in the first issue of AKAHATA.
The few months preceding and following the end of the war passed
quickly. In spite of general MacARTHUR's order to release all the political
prisoners, the government delayed our release and the prison officials
tried until the very end to convince visiting members of the Allied Forces
that they knew nothing about us. But toward the end of September Allied
correspondents finally located us. Thus the day we had been looking for
ward to for so long - the day when we could again fight - was finally with
us. On 10 October 1945, after 18 years of prison life, we walked through
the steel gates of FUCHU Prison and once again became a part of society.
Nearly 18 years had elapsed since 15 March 28, that memorable day on
which I was thrown into ICHIGAYA Prison to await trial. Crowds of people
were waiting for us in the drizzling rain. I could do no more than to nod
to our comrades who sympathized with us for our suffering during the eighteen
long years. Now that it was all over, in a corner of my heart I could think
of the many long months as a dream because of the well-ordered life that I
led. However, we had much important work ahead of us which required our
immediate attention. Since we had waited anxiously for the day when we
would be able to carry out our thoroughly studied plans, we immediately
jumped into this new struggle without hesitation.
Conclusion
In concluding this account of my prison experience, I feel that I should
add one other thing that is engraved deeply in my mind. This is that in
the final analysis, prison and society are the same. "hen I first entered
prison, I thought of it as a special place cut off from society by high
walls. But as the war wore on and society underwent changes, I began to
understand that this idea was wrong. Prison is a society in miniature.
Unless society undefgoes reform the prison will notr eform. Cruelty in
37

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
prison is a projection of cruelty in society. Amr
became more prevaled in society on account of the 
found that the people were all like prisoners. we much build
corrupted JAPAN, which is absolutely lacking in morals, into a
and righteous society, one which is not full of contradictions. By doin
this, I presume that prisons will soon become liberal and just. This i
the goal in our struggle. I am convinced that we can accomplish this
38

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
CHILDHOOD DAYS
moment in time now that is is all over. My father was born t
that was famous because everyone ate potatoes and because good lard
so scarce. OSHIMA is now known as a citrus-producing district, but in
those days the land was so poor that ohly sweet potatoes could be grom
Moreover, farm land was very scarce. Therefore, beginning in the early
days of the Meiji era (TN 1868 to 1912), the people on the island who
could not make a living emigrated to HAWAII and CALIFORNIA. My father,
probably realizing that he would have a difficult time making a living
if he remained on the island, went to NAGASAKI when he was 17 orl8 to
become an apprentice seaman on a schooner. In the meantime, the con-
struction of steamships was begun and he shipped on one as a crew mem-
ber. Under the tutelage of the captain who was an Englishman, he
learned the art of navigation and subsequently, was made captain of the
seventh or eighth largest steamship in JAPAN. From about 1907, he made
his living in MoJI by combining salvage work with the work of surveying,
which was the business of inspecting ships' hulk. I was born in 1901
when he was still a steamship captain. My father's surname was KAwAMOTO,
but because of various reasons, it was decided that I should succeed to
the house of SHIGA which was my mother's home. My mother was of the type
who is unable to express itself. In fact, she could not even express her
love toward her children. However, there were times when I realized
the blessedness of a mother's love. One such time occurred when I took
the entrance examination for the First Higher School. I found that my
mother had even foregone her tea, which she loved so much so that she
could pray for my being accepted. Even while I was still in grammar
school, I used to glance at such magazines of my father's as "Tokyo Puck"
and 'Osaka Puck" and others which published carricatures and without
realizing it, I had come to believe that YAMAGATA Aritomo, IIO Hakebun,
TERACHI Magayoshi, and other bigwigs of the CHOSHU clan were evil men,
using military and bureaucratic power to oppress the masses. As time
passed, I matriculated at HAGI Middle School and lived my five middle
school years with an aunt at my mother's home. Not only was HAGI the
cradle of the military clique and of the bureaucrats, it was also a
country town pervaded by the aura of feudalism. And in those five years
of my life, my antipathy toward feudalism grew even more active. For
instance, everytime I saw first and second year middle school students
openly show a derisive attitude toward a cobbler who had a shop in one
corner of the school grounds, my feelings were hurt. Toward the end
of my sophomore year at the middle school, out of savings from my meager
allowance, I bought SHIMASAKI Toson's "HAKAI" (TN title of a book. It
may be translated "Apostasy".) which vividly depicted the social per
secution directed against the people of outcast communities. I devoured
this book and was overcome with indignation that man would tolerate the
discriminatory treatment depicted in the book. "hen I tried to borrow
NAKAE Chomin's "A year and aHalf" at the prefectural library during my
fourth year of middle school, the head librarian refused my request, say-
ing, "e cannot loan this book to middle school students. SUN TZU had
among his disciples Prime Minister LI SZU of TSIN. The quality of one's
theory can be determined by the quality of the theorist's disciples.
Chomin producted among his disciples a traitor named KOTokU Shusui".
This head librarian had served as a Captain in the Army during the Sino-
Japanese ar. The students at the middle school used to laugh at him,
saying that he shouted out orders to rush the enemy while he himself hid
in a trench. I wanted to read the book all the more because the chief
librarian refused to let me borrow it. However, I remember that I read it
over and over again with deep interest when I finally succeeded in ob-
taining a copy by fooling the librarian. In front of our house, there is
the house where TAKASUGI Shinsaku was born, while to the rear was located
KIDO Koin's home. On the house is a name plate bearing the name WADA,
which was KIDo's original family name.
30

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
Also in our township is a stone monument bearing the inscription,
"Birthplace of His Excellency TANAKA Guichi". This was the sort of
environment in which I was raised. In school I received a somewhat
Spartan training based on YOSHIDA Shin's "Seven Principles of a Samurai".
When I was in the first grade, I was commended by the principal of the
school for being the best in the class in reciting the seven principles
The third principle, ie "The Way of the Samurai holds honor above all.
Honor comes from valor and valor lives by honor" and the short phrase
"Fight to the end" are simple in phraseology but have a profound meaning.
In those days I admired the seventh principle, ie "For the man of forti-
tude, decision and firmness, there is no other way".
I Participate in the Rice
Riot as a Middle School Student
It was while I was home in MOJI to spend the semmer vacation with
my parents in my fifth year of middle school that the well known rice
riot broke out. I, a 17 year old student, was greatly moved and parti-
cipated in the riot. This was my first step into the domain of social
movements. In those days, we had a teacher named UMEMURA Kiyomitsu,
who used to tell us, "you might forget your own name, but you should
never forget that modern history began in 1789". He emphasized the
significance of the French Revolution by writing "1789" on each of the
four sections of the blackboard. During my middle school days, I enjoyed
reading literature dealing with the French Revolution, and acquired a deep
respect for such men as ROBESPTERRE. Of course, at that early age I
could not possibly realize the true significance and the remifications of
such things as political trends, but at any rate my reading was instru-
mental in implanting deeply in my adolescent mind a conception of such
things as freedom and equality and charity. My parents, consternated at
my participation in the rice riot in MOJI, ordered me back to HAGI. But
shortly after I returned to HAGI, a rice riot became imminent there also.
The social unrest which was now spreading all over the country invaded my
being. I was graduated from middle school in March 1919 when the nation
was gripped by unrest. I was graduated from middle school in March 1919
when the nation was gripped by unrest. Dr. SAAYANACI Seitaro's book was
used as the text for the course in morals in middle school. At the end
of the fifth years text book was a passage speculating as to the station
in life which those were then about to graduate would have attained ten
years hence. Ten years later I was in prison awaiting trial, recalling
this passage and chuckling to myselt over the irony of it all.
The First Higher School and
y Embracing the Student Hovement
T entered the First Higher School in September 1919. Among my class-
mates at the First Higher School were OZAkI Hidemi, who was involved in
the Sorge Case; TAKATA, Tadashi, who tried OZAKI; MTYOSHI Shigeo, who later
became assistant Chief Secretary of the Cabinet; MIzukE Akira, who worked
under APE Motoki; and TYETANT Hobusaburo, the late author. IZUIKE in
particular was a good friend of mine at school. However, fate is inpre-
dicatable; I went in for the Communist movement while TrUIKE fought the
Communist movement. In those days, I lived in Room 6 of the South Dormi-
tory of the First Higher School. This room was occupied by members of
the judo department and among my seniors were such men as MURAKAMA, Taka
and MT"A Hisanori of the SHINJIN KAI. The mention of the judo department
gives the impression that this room was inhabited by reactionaries, but
actually, it ranked first in the number of martyrs for the liberation
movement. our predecessors, for the most part, were gradually intro-
duced into Communism after first going through democracy or SAkAI Toshihiko:s
school of socialism and social democracy, KOTOkU Shusui's school of socialism
tinged with anarchism, or unionism, but from about the time of my contem-
poraries, we were indoctrinated directly into Communism, and the number of

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
converts increased. When I was in my fourth or fifth year of middy
school, news of the Russian Revolution appeared widely in the n
papers, and in my early days at Higher School literary works dealing
with that subject began to be published. Therefore, when we first
started to think for ourselves, we found ourselves in a position to
study Bolshevick theories and to participate in the movement. I gradu-
ated from the First Higher School in 1922 and. emrolled in the socialogy
course in the Department of Literature of Tokyo Imperial University.
The SHINJIN KAI at the university was in the throes of a crisis and
KURODA Sumio, currently of the Socialist Party; TOMOOKA Hisao, now a
professor at HOSEI University; and TACHIBANA Kyosuke were the only ones
who were trying to rebuild it. I cooperated with them and started a
movement aimed first at the higher school of the nation and expanding
subsequently to other schools: Prior to that time, the SHINJIN KAT had
not engaged actively in spreading its gospel to other schools, but out
contemporaries not only began a gradual move to bring all schools under
our wing but we also started a campaign of education among progressive
students.
In those countries where the establishment of democracy is a
current issue, the students have participated actively in the movement.
It is the same whether it be the BURUSHIEN SHAFUTO (TN Exact ROMAJI
translation of the original KANA) in GERMANY under the reactionary rule
of the Holy Alliance, the student movement in RUsSIA toward the end of
the 19th century, or the student movement in the Asiatic countries follow-
ing the first "orld War. The only variable factor would be the role of
each class in the democratic revolution. This will vary according to
the country and the age. Therefore, it is natural that the character
of student movements changes automatically. In JAPAN the movement linked
itself with the proletarian movement. As soon as I entered the university
I made a tour of the higher schools to the west of TOKYO with KURODA
Sumio and others. We established liaison with schools which had social-
ogical research groups, organized such groups at schools where they did
not exist, and finally succeeded in forming a Students Federation at a
meeting of delegates representing the progressive students throughout JAPAN,
which was held at TOkYo Imperial University on 7 Nov 22, the anniversary
of the Russian Revolution. TAKANo Minoru, now the Socialist Party, took
an active part in this. of course, the movement was not conducted solely
by students; the Communist Party gave us enthusiastic cooperation. An
interesting point in connection with the student movement in JAPAN is that
neither militarism nor social democracy became its keynote.
At that time, there were several kinds of Communist groups. There
were five or six small groups such as the KYOMTNKAI, 1ed by TAKATSU Masamichi
and KNOno Fizo and with which TAKASE Kiyoshi, TAKANO Minoru and I were
connected; the  ednesday Club of TOKUDA Kyuichi, YAMAKA"A Hitoshi and
ARAH'TA Kanson, and the Thursday Club. These groups got together on 15
July in the year I entered the university (1922) and established the first
Japan Communist Party under the guidance of the COMTNTFRN. As early as
June 1923, when I was a sophmore, the first roundup of Communists took
place. Fortunately, I escaped arrest at this particular time.
MARCHFIFTEENTH
"hen the general elections were held by the Tanaka Cabinet, the Com-
munist Party conducted its election campaign, publicly announcing its
policies despite unlawful suppression. By this time, we were already
aware of the fact that our foes would conduct a wholesale roundup as soon
as the Communist Party made any headway in the elections. Both the
Thought Control Section of the Metropolitan Police Poard, as well as Police
Departments throughout the nation were making ready for the roundup. In
the ublic Procurator's office, too, Associate Procurator MATSUZAKA
Hiromasa of the Tokyo District Court became the Procurator in charge upon
orders from Chief Public Procurator SHIONO Tokihiko. Procurators HIRATA
Isao and OKA Goro were assigned to him to make preparations. Since we
1.7

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
began to perceive this situation, I warned WATANABE Masanosuke, who
was later killed in a battle with the constabulary in TAIwAN, to get the
in readiness because of huge roundup was imminent. He was then the exocut
secretary of the Party.
Around dawn of 15 March, a month hence, I was suddently awakened by
a member of the household as I lay sleeping at my home in TSUNOHAZU, YODOBASHI
He said, "Someone wants to deliver a telegram". There was no reason for me
to be receiving a telegram at this time of the night. Thinking that the
time had come, I made certain that I had no incriminating evidence on my
person, lit my flashlight and went out, listening to the voice calling
out, "Telegram". It was pitch dark outside and I could not see a thing.
They were hiding in the shadows so they would not be noticed by anyone
coming out of the house. As I came out of the door with a feeling of un-
easiness, they crept up softly behind me and said, "We are from Metropoli-
tan Police Headquarters", and nosily entered my house. When I asked, hy
have you come?", they replied, "We just want to take a look around."
"hile I asked, "What is the meaning of this?", approximately 20 detectives
came out and rushed into my house. Upon observation, I found that my
house was surrounded on all four sides. I sat in a chair in the middle
of the room and watched them. They searched from corner to corner but
were not able to find anything. Finally they began to poind the ceiling
boards. As one of the men hit the boards, one cam loose and rained mice
droppings on the head of the Assistant Police Sergeant. I laughed and
said, " It goes to show you that you are making a mountain out of a mole-
hill". since they could not find anything, they gathered up practically
all my books, taking about 2,Oo0 with them. They even t ook Shakespeare's
"Macbeth", perhaps because the cover was red or maybe because the title
"Macbeth" resembled the name of MARX. They then took me to the Yodobashi
Police Station. Shortly thereafter, NAKANO Shigeharu was brought here.
Many others were brought here so I knew that this was the big roundup. By
this time, the late OSuIMA Hideo, his wife and child were already arrested.
I repeatedly requested the release of the OsHTMA's since their baby was
ill, and after speaking to the man in charge of the Thought Control Section,
I obtained permission for them to receive milk from the outside; however,
the child grew worse and finally died two or three days later. They could
do nothing with me because T carried no identification so after three or
four days of detention they threw me into Tchigaya Prison.' "hen I met the
judge for the preliminary trial, I first heard that Public Procurator
HIRATA was going to indict me. I rebuffed him saying, ""hat nonsense".
I quickly noticed after entering the prison that TokUnA was there too. He
was, as usual, in good health. "e encouraged each other, signalling with
our eyes and hands. Thereafter, within two years the procurator in charge
of my case changed five times. I continued to refuse to submit statements
to these various procurators. Prison is the Touchstone of Revolutionists.
New faces continuously appeared in prison. I finally came to the con-
clusion that this had been a hugh roundup; however, in the beginning the
situation was not clear and I had no idea of the extent of the damage in-
curred by the Party. At that point I analyzed myself with regards to the
situation. First, * resolved to carry out my responsiblities to the end;
second, I did not know how bad this storm would be but I decided that I
would not concern myself over such matters and would quietly dispose of
each problem as it arose; third, I vowed to keep myself in good health and
lead a well-ordered life. I decided upon these matters the day following
my imprisonment.
I was in ICHIGAYA for approximately another month, then I was suddenly
sent to TOYOTAMA Prison. TOYOMATA was a prison for those who had been
sentenced for their first offense; consequently, the buildings were old and
it was not equipped to accommodate persons awaiting trial. I later read some
poems written in prison by sAITo Tyu, a general who particpated in the 26
February Tncident. Upon reading them I found that this person had written
many pessimistic poems showing how completely his spirits were broken when
he was thrown into prison and made to wear prison garb. As compared to how
I felt as I entered prison, I was amazed that this once proud militarist

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
could become made to don the faded prisoner's suit. I felt the
ping of a carcer soldier's spirit, but I did not sucoumb to such
pessimism.
Upon entering prison, the first crisis comes when one becomes aware
of the inadequacy of one's knowledge. I was considered among my friends
as an avid reader ever since my schcol days and even as a scholar. of
course, since I was busy in various activities, I could afford neither
the time nor the money to indulge in reading as avidly as the scholars;
nevertheless, I was fond of reading. However, after my imprisonment, I
became aware of the fact that my knowledge of the conditions existing in
JAPAN which I believed to be quite thorough was, in truth, insufficient.
It seems that everyone is sometimes struck by this thought although in
varying degrees. "hen I read the earlier memoroirs of ASANO Akira, a man
who later bolted from the Party, I found that he, too, was firmly convinced
of this fact. y feelings along this line were not so strong as his;mver-
theless, I did have that feeling. However, the turning point comes in the
determination of what is to follow. If from that point one falls victim to
the thought,"I did not know anything; therefore, my donduct heretofore has beon
futile", that is the first step toward the downfall of the Communist. My
thoughts did not run along those lines; in f act they were quite to the con-
trary. I decided that, granted that I was ignorant, I would get ahold of
every book I could lay my hands on, limited though they may be, and in-
crease my knowledge during the period I was to spend in prison. I vowed to
read reactionary books which, before my imprisonment, I would not have given
a second glance to so that I might gather information about our enemy.
Furthermore, prison was the touchstone of revolutionists. If I kept up
my morale and withstand these tribulations, I would be able to learn some-
thing special which I could never grasp, by reading books or participating
in movements in the outside world. The question of whether or not one will
be able to endure the long years of prison life depends on whether or not
one resolves to develop this new possibility. The dividing line between
the application and strengthening of this resolution and the loss of morale
due to the inability to carry it out is, at first, indescernible; however,
it increases in intensity with time. One thing will lead to another and in
the end it will result in betraying the workers and the liberation movement.
It is imperative that one be constantly careful while living in the
outside world not to keep incriminating documents about one's person. One
cannot be overly careful because things have a way of accumulating over a
period of time. And if a little tidying which should be done today is put
off until tomorrow, that will be come the source of one's downfall. One
must inspect desk drawers and such and dispose of all superfluous matters
when tidying one's personal belongings. If such incriminating evidence is
brought to light, it would inevitably place one in a vulnerable and weak
position. An unfortunate example of this is URAo Satsuo and others, They,
by their unpardonable negligence, opened the way for this huge roundup of
Party members, and reaching the limits of atrophy, divulged everything. The
detrimental effects of their tattling upon the apprehended Party members
is immeasurable. Since I exercised every precaution as was my wont in this
respect, the papers taken from me were of very little value. I believe
that my socialistic conscience will bear with me that I did not incriminate
my comrades in any way. The most tormenting thought of a person when he is
first apprehended is his inability to even guess just who and how many were
arrested. However, it is necessary to be as cheerful as possible since it
serves no purpose to become overwrought about it. hether or not a person
is of good spirits can be detected by a single glance. By merely looking
from the window at the figures engaged in exercies, one can readily discern
from their bearing whether the persons are in low or high spirits. The men
who hold themselves up well, throw themselves vigorously into their exercises,
and complacently chat with the wardens are those whose morale is high.
ToKunA was s spendid example in this respect. MIZUNO Namuo, in his notes
upon renouncing the Party, which read later, wrote that he felt as if the
bottom had dropped out from under his world when the door to his cell clanged
shut. Those who have experienced know, that the clank of the door being
43

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
closed in ICHIGAYA certainly sounds as if it were the knell of Hell
However, if one loses hope and becomes depressed, then he will be
phychologically overpowered by his foes. If, in this battle, the
employs psychological tactics in their attack, we should counterattack
Those who have held positions of importance in the past must be ever
aware of the fact that one's speech and behavior are being obwerved by
other comrades. They say that when the going becomes rough and the men
start falling one after the other, all men are apt to read the course of
events by the expression on the commander's face. This is analagous in
our case.
Through devious methods, we were able to establish means of communi-
cating from one cell to another. Some of these means of communication
were certainly original. Given time, there is not a limit to one's
ability to devise and improvise methods. After approximately three months,
I was able to judge the extent of the damage suffered by the Party.
"ATANARE Masanosuke, ICHIKATA Shocchi, SANO Manabu, NAREYAMA Sadachika and
others had not as yet been apprehended. However, the majority had been
taken. At this stage, T thought it necessary to prepare for the worst.
Even if I refused to make any statements, the general facts would probably
be brought to light. In essence, the Law for the Preservation of Public
Peace under which we were arrested was enacted for the purpose of pre-
paring the nation for war, and since this law and war were cut from the
same mould, I felt certain that a great war would break out wiile I was
in prison. If that occurred, there was a possibility that I would be
killed. However, I was determined to defend the laboring masses to may
dying breath. I vowed that I would live through it all, regardless of
what happened.
The public procurators began their investigations, and proceedings
for the preliminary trail were also begun; however, I was not once inter
rogated for four months. I was summoned by one of the procurators, but
he did not question me immediately. He merely had various printed docu-
ments on his desk. This was just to intimate that many men had been appre-
hended. On the second occasion, BT"ADS Gensuke, who created quite a stir in
the Imperial Rayon Co. Ltd. case (TN: TEIJIN JIKEN), started investigations
as the procurator in charge. Although they questioned me in various ways,
I refused to cooperate. After a month, BT"ADA and I locked horns and he
told his superiours, "T absolutely refuse to question SHIGA". The whole
thing began when I told him not to be rediculous when he made his secretary
write that I had replied in a somewhat obsequious manner despite the fact
that I had not uttered a word. Due to this, I was not bothered for the
next several months. They retaliated in a childlike manner. For example,
our letters were all censored by the examining judge, but these letters
began to take 80 to 90 days to reach us from the time they were mailed and
censored. They really proved futile as a medium of correspondence. More-
over, at the beginning we were allowed to receive a few books, but pre-
sently they began to restrict this also under most unreasonable pretexts.
The prohibited the sending of practically all books to us. For example,
they even refused mathematician Henri POTNCARE's "Modern Ideologies". They
were not in favor of the term "ideolody". FABRE's "Studies In Entomology"
was taken away from me while  was reading it, probably because it had been
translated by OSUGI Sakae.
They tried to isolate us from outside influence in this manner. They
also became very strict about the visiting regulations, and permitted
visitors only when absolutely necessary. It is quite distressing for any-
one to be isolated from all the going-on of the outside world. Moreover,
there were no facilities to engage in outdoor exercies at TOYoTAMA Prison,
and since there were many activities there, the exercise and both periods
were limited ton only three minutes a day. This situation continued for
a long while. Therefore, we made a strong deman for better treatment.
It is important that one does not take too servile an attitude in
prison. One can ive a good impression by passively submitting to fate and
by paying little heed to trifles if the prison term is short; however, as
a year lengthens into two, three or four, the stamina of such men will
山

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
gradual wear off. Therefore, although it would
voke the wardens into acts of vielence, it is
the incivilities of the prison officials do not go w
pecially detrimental is the obsequious attitude of o
be well-thought of, for he himself will gain nothing and much
will only inconvenience the rest.
In prison the authorities were extremely oppressive to the prisor
in general, let alone those convicted for political offenses. The
prisoners tried to throw back this yoke but could not succeed. Freedem of
speech was not allowed. we became the spokesman for these persons and,
needless to say, for our comrades in presenting their requests. Then, in
turn they gave us support. I noticed in prison that regardless of whether
a man is a petty thief, a shoplifter, or a burglar he has received a good
name from his parents, No one has a name with which evil can be associated.
There are but a few men who are born criminals. Therefore, once we appealed
to their basic natures, these men who, in the eyes of the world, were in-
corrigibly evil, became attached to us and gave us their full support. It
was interesting to awaken these men to the consciousness of their better
natures. It was irrefutably impossible to educate these prisoners under
the existing feudalistic penal system. Only those who were obsequious,
servile and indulged in slothful hypocricy were recognized, and the men who
worked evil as tools for the officials were given credit. In the long run,
this only produced more recidivists.
EVEN STEEL NEEDS TEMPERING
I thought my first day in prison was interminable. Then, the first
week dragged endlessly on. The first six months to a full year were in-
tolerably long. However, during the second year this feeling changed to
one of mild surprise at the passage of time. As three, four, five and then
eighteen years rolled by, I lost all sense of time. However, this feeling
would not arise if one were eager for release. On the contrary, the days
would become lgnger. Revolutionists should choose to leave if they have the
opportunity. However, so long as the enemy decides to detain the revolution-
ist, any irrational attempt to escape would only result in playing into
their hands. After my release from prison, I heard people say that it would
have been better to have made some sort of compromise and to have left.the
prison as soon as possible rather than to have let all human faculties de-
teriorate during the 18 long years of prison life, and they asked my opinion
regarding this matter. I regarded this as a case of positive coopration and
colloboration with the reactionary Covernment and not compromise. The
majority of men who made the above statements were, in truth, merely justi-
fying their own actions. It goes without saying that it is better for one
to get out and participate in various activities of such is possible. This
is especially applicable to those who did not hold too responsible a
position. hen release was impossible it would have been folly to have re-
orted to unreasonable methods.  oreover, one's faculties whould not de-
teroirate in prison if he were constantly in good spirits. Iater, when the
first trial was about to end, SANo Manabu said, "e shall probably be im-
prisoned for a long time. e shall, regrettably, retrocede during our
long prison terms". Upon hearing this the late KOYURIO Goichiro, TOKUDA
Kyuichi and I exhanged glances, and I smiled wryly, thinking how foolish
were the words he had uttered. He had forgotten that prison was the touch-
stone for revolutionists; therefore, he had shown the white feather without
being conscious of doing so. One must progress and make advancements during
one's life in prison. In order to do this one must lead a life of temperance.
One must eat the food offered and not request food from outside except when
absolutely necessary. Besides, one is apt to have indigestion after eating
rice. The circumstances regarding those awaiting trial now differ from those
of the past, end the food served is below the physiological requirement be-
cause of the war and the lack of material; however, one should practice tem-
perance and fare on the prison food as much as possible. Furthermore, it
is of utmost importance to a revolutionist that he does not succumb to any
pressure which may be brought upon him. Man gains the assurance of being
able to push ahead once he overcame an obstacle, and he will become confi-
dent of the fact that he can withstand as greater amount of adversities
should they arise. The difference between those who fall fack and those

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
who advances is at first hardly noticeable. Advance 1s
coming each obstacle as it presents itself. Steal must be fo
times and its quality is perfected by many forgings. Bo it la wit
Important incidents regarding socialism fly over the high prison wa
and reach our ears much quicker than is imagined by those living out
Therefore, we were placed in a position to judge these incidents acoure
thereby enriching and cultivating our theories, provided we had the right
outlook on life and the world.
THE "EAKENING OF THE DISSOLUTIONISTS
The second danger appeared when we were finally up for questioning.
That danger arose out of the feeling of "I guess I can talk since he has
spilled the beans". However, one must dispel all such thoughts. If one
takes such an attitude, question after question will be asked and one will
ultimately find himself in a grave predicament. Those who are holding res-
ponsible positions should be particularly careful not to take the attitude of
"Since he has told them; I guess there's no harm in my admitting it". when
one is up against reactionary opposition, one should not divulge even the
most insifnificant facts. The tortures inflicted by the enemy are brutal.
Men holding positions of trust should endure these tortures and questionings
at the hands of the reactionaries and never make any statements whatsoever.
This is because a statement in itself is a surrender.
In 1929, I was sent back from TOYOTAMA to the Ichigaya Prison, and at
this time, the late I'ATA Yoshimichi happened to be put in the cell next to
mine. He skillfully managed to escape apprehension in the 15 March incident
but was cuaght shortly thereafter. The whole picture of the 15 March in-
cident became clear to me after hearing the various facts regarding it
from him. TATA was also in good spirits.
Danger again loomed near. This third crisis seems more often than not
to come within the first year. It is the impatience which arises from the
indefiniteness of the trials. Even the words to the counting song of
prison are "Three, the ones who wait for trial are the Communists; two or
three years are just the beginning". Out of this impatience springs the
feeling of how much more profitable it would be to somehow get out of prison
quickly by some means and to be active rather than to languish in prison
doing nothing. Such thoughts beset weak men. In truth, this is the logic
set forth by these men who, gradually finding themselves weaken, try to
rationalize their psychological instability. It was MIzuNo Nario, the pro-
moter of the dissolutionists, who first began to think along these lines.
Then he gained the interest of KA"AI, Etsuzo, URAo Satsuo, KAnOYA Hiroshi,
MTNA Kiichi, and ASANO Akira. These men is a degrading manner revealed
all sorts of information to the enemy from the first day of their appre-
hension. hile I was in Ichigaya Prison around 1926, SUGJURA Keiichi, who
was at that time still in good spirite, was in a cell close to mine. I re-
call the time when he, upon hearing that gm^o Satsuo, who was in the third
cell away from him, had turned his back on the Party, severely reprimanded URAO.
uch as atmosphere of submission runs through the cells like electricity.
Then, it began to revirberate throughout the prison. The revirbirations
did not anpear in any tangible form such as in talk or in the attitude of the
men, yet it charged the nerves with dynamic force. However, a greater force,
a force of resistance born of indignation, pervaded the men.
At such a time, it is imperative that men of authority shout with mes-
merizing powers. Then, everyone will become strongly uplifted. It has the
same effect as making soldiers rise gallantly in battle upon being encouraged
by their conmander to "Take heart!" hen, in a bitter battle with shells rain-
ing everywhere, fear threatens men and hearts begin to quake. we encouraged
the men when the wardens were not looking. Te did not particularly begin con-
versation with the men; yet these words of encouragement ran through them
like electric currents. After a long period of solitary confinement one
develops a type of instinct similar to the extraordinary powers which blind men
acquire. For example, during the night, one can identify the warden on night
46

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
duty by the sound of hie footatepe outaide the o
could tell by the tempo of his walk whether he
When I called out, "yisitor to eee mep" he would say in
opening the door, "How did you know?" Out instincts devalo
fashion. The feeling of unrest and the feeling of conteracting
this instinct like an electric current. At times we encourage
talking to the warden's in such a manner that on the surface our 
tion seemed trivial, but which would, nevertheless, strike a responale
chord in those who were beginning to falter. If a courageous man count
attacks by giving these words of encouragement, he is bound to succoed
Aside from confessing that I was a Communist, I held out saying nothing for
two years. No matter what I was asked, the court reporters could only
"The defendant remained silent at this time". One will become more in-
volved if one tries to fabricate a coherent story. Regardless of what they
may say, one must always be wary and spurn those weaklings who have opened
their mouths and talked. TOkUDA also, after vehemently stating the true
nature and oppressions under the emperor system, said nothing more.
After the 16 April incident, SANO Manabu was apprehended in SHANGHAI.
Subsequently, our principal comrades who escaped the 16 April incident
were also caught. That which I was shown by the public procurator after
SANO's apprehension was the degrading statement made by SANO Fumio and
KITAURA Sentaro. SANO's despicable statement which was compiled under such
circumstances showed that he disclosed everything shamelessley; moreover,
it was sefl-centered and gave the impression that his ideas were carried
out as the rightful policies of the Party. Due to this, the true picture
of the communists' fight was prisented to the enemy in a distorted manner;
in addition, in orderto put himself in the right, he made brazen statements
about Comardes ICHIKAA and TOKUDA. As one begins to fall, all the weaknesses
and sordidness of one's character begin to t ake shape. After that, one
falls with a crack like a cart sliding downhill. When I later met SANo in
prison, I asked him, "hy did you say those things?" He replied, "Since
KITAURA Sentaro and SANO Fumio had said those things, I thought that it would
be better for me to give a consistent statement, too". He had no sense of
responsibility which a leader should possess. It was his characteristic
to show the white flag when thrown into jail or prison and isolated from
everyone. The enemy gained confidence by his statement and, showing this
statement to ICHIKAWA, TOKUDA, KOKURIA, SUGIURA and me, who were in good
spirits, tried to make us abandon our principles. Of course, we were not
taken in by the enemy, and through our common statements, we succeeded in
clarifying the misconceptions esisting in his statement.
COUPT STRUGGLE
The trail began in July 1931 with Judge TYAGA Minoru presiding. The
working masses gave strong support to our court struggle. The Metropolitan
Police Headquarters, was confused by this and took precautionary steps. In
the beginning machine guns were placed in readiness near the court house.
The court struggle was linked wi th the world economic crisis that started
toward the end of 1929 and with the struggle of the working masses in JAPAN
which accompanied it. Out court struggle added strong impetus to popular
struggle. This struggle clearly indicated that the Party can fight stubborn-
ly against any enemy of the people under any pressure even in the prison.
In addition, we were able to explain concisely the unified over-all picture
of the Party.
The court struggle attacted great interest among the working masses.
The spectatros' gallery was filled to capacity every single day. The court
house officials issued admission tackets as a means of control. So many
people wanted to attend the trial, so spectator's were not able to get these
tickets by coming to the court on the day they wanted to attend. Unless they
arrived the night before, sleeping in line, they could not be assured of
47

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
entrance. So the laborers and farmers slept on the stone pave
front of the Ministry of Justice from the night before, and
to the trial proceedings attentively. They went home with indelible
impressions of the battle we were waging, all deeply moved, and saying,
"I have finally seen the leaders of the Communist Party".
The authorities rigidly inspected the spectators coming in and they
also placed strict guard posts all over the place. In spite of these pre-
cautions, the laborers and the Party members cleverly brought leaflets into
the spectatr's section and distributed tham. These leaflets consisted of "
"Protect the Communist Party"; "Absolute opposition to the emperor system's
outrageous trial", "Absolute opposition to imperialistic warfare". Our
comrades attending the trial and the laborers sitting in the spectator's
section took notes on our statements and these were put togetherand printed
for publication. These publications were sold and disappeared like hot
cakes. In order to prevent this, the court finally banned the taking of
shorthand noted in the courtroom, but even after that, the court proceedings
were printed and published by other methods. Even in this court struggle,
SANO Manabu, NABEYAMA Sadachika, ITAURA Shiro and TAKAHASHI Sadaki were
getting special benefits from the public prosecutor's office. Therefore,
no matter what sort of correspondence they carried on with the outside,
the public procurator's office permitted it. They were allowed special
privileges in regards to books, also. However, ICHIKA"A, TOKUDA, KOKURIO,
sHTCA AND others were restricted in everything. "e were able to get the
necesssry refernce materials for the court struggle only toward the final
stages of the trial through combined effort by stating that the materials
were necessary for the trial. They, on the other hand, were able to get
such materials freely even from the start to the preliminary hearing.
SAIO made statements that were positively assinine while NABEYAMA in-
sisted, "I am not a member of the Communist Party". MITAYURA was very
talktive and he tattled about everything. Also, he advertised himself as if he
was the supreme leader. TAkAsHAsHI revealed to the authorities all the
secrets of the Party which should have been kept in the dark. From the
start of the preliminary hearing up through the public trial, they were
faltering although they were not as completely rotten as they turned out to
be later on. At that time, they were gradually falling out from the Party,
by pleading with the authorities for pardon and by secretly making con-
tacts with them. Their actions gradually picked up momentum and finally,
it got to the point vhere they insulted the Party publicly and showed be-
trayal. e thought that their attitudes were as yet inexcusable as they
were holding responsivel positions. e included them inthe court struggle
committee; however, later around 1943, I talked with TOKUDA and others in
a detention camp that we should have taken a firmer attitude against them
at that time. These actions discouraged the fighting spirits of the young
men, and it is an inexcusable crime against the class. The militarists
gradually became more influential as the situation became more and more
reactionary. About the time when the trial was almost over, especially after
† e Manchurian Incident broke out in September 1931. The police took ad-
vantage of this situation and started to put strong pressure externally by
concocting gang cases and lynch cases, and by making wholesale arrests of
Party members. Even in prison, we felt this undisguised pressure. A warden
named SATo Atoichi, who was noted for brutality, together with Assistant
Warden MORICuCuI Fujimatsu, made physical attacks on us. It happened an the
night following the end of our trial. Under the direction of ORICUCHI who was
stripped to his waist, a few score of comrades were dragged out from their
prison cells and were beaten with leather whips under the pretext that they
caused troubleenroute to the prison from the court house. hen they fainted
and fell, water was splashed on them to revive them after which they were
again beaten. SAkAI Teikichi, for instance, had one eye and one ear in-
jured causing facial neuralga. His back was swollen so purple that the
doctor fearedsupperation.
48

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
TREACHERIES OF SANO MANABU AND OTHERS
Under these conditions, the air of weakness and instabdlit
Communist Party members who had been arrested began to cryatalll
faction of SANO and NABEYAMA. Assistant Warden MORIGUIGHI bogan to
sult with the prisoners constantly and the relationship between the Pub
declaration of treachery in the form of preservation of the Emperer Syas
was announced in June 1933 as a result of their exhaustive consultatione
Copies of this statement were mimeographed for them by the prison authorities
The court as well as the public procurator's office and the prison officials
all offered every possible facility and means for them to commit acts of
treachery. They gave spirited encouragement, material assistance, personal
services, and other necessary aids. A manuscript propagating this treachery
was taken outside and was published widely in "BUNGEI SHUNJU" and in "KAIZO".
The ruling class planned to encourage the members to renounce the Party by
taking advantage of this declaration. Even in the prison atrocious white
terror was practiced to force the members to renounce the party. Extremely
cruel torture was inflicted on women comrades in particular. It was the
same at the police station. The police made persistent demands that mem-
bers renounce the Party, and follow the examples set by SANO and NABEYAMA.
They inflicted extreme torture on them by saying quite jocularly, me are
going to re-educate you and give you a new chance out of the Emperor's
graciousness and his parental affection". They didn't torture us so freely
for that would have caused trouble if they should make a false move, but
even then, they attacked us whenever the opportunity permitted. A hireling
came to encourage me to renounce the Party. The chief jailer did all the
messenger work for SANO and NABEYAMA and even the public procurators helped .
A certain chief jailer frequently brought me letters from them which read,
"'re want to see you!" I laughed and ignored them. Then under the pretext
that it was another business. I was called out unexpectedly by the remark,
"The assistant warden wants to see you", and so I reluctantly went and met
them. I told NAPYAMA, "Vou resemble TZUNO, YADOVA, and other renouncees!"
The main point of what SANA 'anabu asserted during that time was that he
praised the mperor ystem under stand socialism and it resembled what he
asserts today.
Four persons - TOTDA, TCHICAA, KOVURTO, and SUICA - carried out the
second court struggle in 1934 in the same court. At this time, the trial was
such a mess that lawyers were put under arrest. ICHIkA'A went on a hunger
strike for 23 days in protest against the plot of unfair trial. This trial
was a marked contrast to the sloppy trial of the cowards like NApEyAYA,
SANO, MITAUTRA, TAKAHASHI And others who surrendered to the authorities.
Finally, our case was decided on 17 cctober and we were sentenced to ten years
imprisonment at hard labor.
SUPROUNDED BY ICE
Suddenly in December of that year, we were sent to HOVKAIDO - TOVUDA,
ICuiKA'A and voYRIO going to Abashiri and I to Hakodate. "e were taken
aboard the train at the Ueno Station with braided hats over our heads and
with handcuffs on our wrists. "e went directly to AKODATE. We arrived in
Hork^Ino in the midst of a snow storm. A severe snow storm was sweeping
through the streets of HAKonATE with such force that it carried everything
before it. The place called HAkODATE is one of the most ideal places in
HokkAIno with very little changes in temperature during summer and winter in
comparison to places like ABASHIRI. However, the Hakodate Prison buildings
were built concrete and steel and wer not suitable for the climate of HokkAIDO.
The buildings had been planned by an architect who had ideas which were suit-
able only in Japan Proper. "elted snow seeped into the concrete and during
49

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
the night, it froze and left a big crack in the concrete. Of cour
prison is the most miserable place to live in this world and it cant
I underwent, I suffered the most from the cold of the winter. The off
used stoves during the cold weather, but, of course, we didn't get any
charcoal to keep ourselves warm even in midwinter. The concrete walls
kept the cold wind from coming in from the cracks in the walls, moist air
penetrated through mercilessly. In poorly constructed prison cells, every
thing froze throughout the room when the temperature dropped to fifteen de-
grees below zero (TN Centigrade). Icicles formed on the electric cord. When
the light went on after sundown, its little heat melted these icicles and
water dripped on the floors. These drops of water caused wet spots on the
quilt resembling the effects of a child's wetting his bed and the wet spot
gradually spread out. Frost formed on the walls. The human breath froze on
to the edge of the quilt and covering the walls was an arabesque design which
shone brilliantly in the light of the electric lamp. In this manner, I spent
six or seven years in icy surroundings during the winter seasons. As for
clothing, I was provided with additional clothing when extremely cold days
came but until then, I only wore the usual prison clothes which consisted of a
too short, red-colored, lined garment and close-fitting trousers. Bifurcated
socks were not issued to us until December. Our one quilt had to serve us
both in summer and in winter. I was transferred to HAkODATE in December, and
soon after I began to suffer rheumatic neuralgia. I felt sharp pains in the
joints and I was not able to lie on my back even for a minute. However, if
I carelessly lay on my side, wind entered from around my shoulders and I almost
froze. It was much colder than Hades. Such conditions continued for three
years. I wrapped the quilt tightly around myself becoming like the pro-
verbial bug in a rug. I was far from snug and could not sleep a wink. Amid
pain and cold, I frequently lay awake waiting for the daybreak. In his
"Divine Comedy", DANTE described the frozen icy hell as the bottom of Hades
and I was deeply impressed by his interpretations that, among all human
sufferings, cold was the worst. Indeed, in DANTE's hell of ice, JUDAS, the
traitor, was standing but in the prisons in JAPAN, traitors like SANO and
others received the best of treatments. Even then, I was able to bear cold
easily while I still had the energy but, as the prison life continued un-
broken for one year, two years, on and on, I became weak from lack of
nourishment, and correspondingly, I felt the cold more keenly. It is hardly
necessary to mention the awfulness of the "prison Food" but, since the be-
ginning of the war, even on the outside, the food supply gradually became acute
and cheating of foodstuffs by the prison officials became more and more
noticeable, and for numbers of days during the month, we ate our meals with
only salt added to give taste. They had chiseled the subsidiary foods of the
destitute convicts and made donations for the national defense. Our foods
were very meager and our clothing was an unsightly and extremely short, lined
garment. To make matters worse, we had to face that cold! y bones ached severe
ly and I was not able to crouch when my rheumatism got bad. For instance, I
couldn't bend my legs even if I tried to use a stool and, when I forced myself
I felt the pain more sharply. It was really cold!
At one time, I had a bad case of frostbite above my knees up to my
thighs and I almost faced amputation of both my legs.
TEAVTNC SATHON NETS
At the prison in HAkoDATE, I was first given the job of darning army
gloves and later, I wove fish nets used for catching salmon. Although it de-
pended upon the season, T generally got up at O500 hours, completed my
toilette, ate my breakfast and I started to work around O6o0 hours. Darning
(TN repairing of gloves) was a fine piece of work and was done under a dim
light, which injured eyesight. The cause for my defective eyesight was
attributable first to this type of sewing and then to malnutrition. Speaking
of weaving nets, this type of work is plentiful inasmuch as HAkODATE is a fish-
ing base but weaving a net is tedious work. Hot only was it monotonous but it
made me very hungry. If I worked steadily even for about an hour after break-
fast, I found myself hungry. In weaving nets, the forward motion was called

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
"KIRU".anf the backward motion, "HIKU". Around lo00sh
cult to make "KIRU" motions and by llo0 hours it
"HIkU" motions. To be forded to weave nets with mamila rope
cold winter days, was most trying. my hands and legs were eh
due to lack of fat and every time I went through the "Kinuw and mnlku
the fibers of the manila rope cut into the openings of my chapped h
pained severely. I continued to do this type of work until I was t
to CHIBA. I woke up at 0500 hours and wove nets from 0600 hours to 1130
I stopped to eat my dinner and from about 12lo hours, I resumed my weaying
During summer months, I worked until 1700 hours and stopped to eat my
I had thirty to forty minutes for supper and after that, I contimued with
work until 190o hours. I actually worked twelve and one-half hours. I had
ten minute rest periods once in the morning and once in the afternoon.
In addition to this, I was given time off for exercise, bathing and
visitors, but this type of time off was not counted as time worked, so if I
spent one hours for one of these things, I had to make the time up. In prison
one day's work was called "a daily routine" but this daily routine consisting
of net weaving for a period of twelve and a half hours involving forward and
backward motions and vice versa at random, was utterly a waste of labor
efficiency.
THE KITE AND THE CROW
Speaking of monotony, prison life anywhere is monotonous but, this
even more so during my years in a solitary cell in HAkODATE Prison. There
were very few seasonal flowers growing near the prison because it was built
on reclaimed land along the seacoast. Epecially during long winter months,
the scenery I viewed from my solitary cell window day after day under the
gray overcast sky was more than monotonous. It was rather desolate and de-
pressing with touch of ghastliness added.
During those days, I occasionally saw from my window a kite and a
crow nosiselessly engaged in desperate fight. In the neighborhood of the
prison there was a "place where squids were caught and a kite used to carry
off the discarded wastes. hile the kite was perched on my window sill and
was about to eat the viscera, two crows came swooping down and pecked at the
kite from both sides. "hen the kite tried to ward off one of the crows with
its beak, the crow on the opposite side pecked at him. As the two crows at-
tacked the kite alternately, they waited for their chance and carried off the
viscera of a squid which the kite had first found. The crows in HOkkAIDO in
general are daring. If a child has some candies a crow comes flying down
from behind and snatches away whatever the child is holding. "hen winter
arrives, there are some crows that fall dead due to starvation and extreme
cold. Then, the other crows flock around and peck at these dead ones, which
are Half frozen. It vas a grim scene beyond description that I saw when a
thick flock of crows devouring the fallen oen on the barren sandy soil of the
prison.
THE FOUR SEASONS AS SEEL IN PRISON
In HAKODATE, spring comes around the latter part of April. One can-
not expect to see varieties of flowers but, when spring arrives following a
long winter, spring-like grasses shoot out and spring-like flowers bloom on
the sandy soil of the prison. The horsetail is the first plant that indicates
the approach of spring. Sonn after 20 April, thinking of spring's arrival, I
gaz d out of my window screened with a gauze like screens which resembled a
toaster (TI: MOCHIAMA - Rice-cake toasting net), I saw honsetails budding here and
there. After the horsetails, the dandelions came out and theri yellow flowers
blossom in a very short time. Following the dandelions is the clover. The
flowers of the clover produce a sweet small and I was very happed to have found
51

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
these clovers growing on the sandy soil of the prison in the
year following my arrival in HOkODATE but they all died that
the very hot climate. The cherry blossoms bloom around 15 May. the
blossoms are a sure sign of spring, but the difference between spring
HONSHU and spring in HOkKAIDO is that the breeze here is not a bit like
the breeze in HONSHU. The spring breeze in HOKKAIDO is somewhat dry and
isn't the warm breeze that you feel in HONSHU. Finally, when June arriv
winter clothing is put away and the so-called AWASE (TN: lined garment) 1
worn.
It is said that there is no rainy season in HOkKAIDO but this is not
true in HAKOnATE. The rainy season starts around 10 June as it does in
HONSHU. But in HAKOnATE, when this raily season begins, it suddenly gets
dols. This season begins, it suddenly gets cold. This season continues un-
til July and when it's over, the summer is on.
The summer in HOkkAIDO should be cool in general but the sun from the
west hits directly on m solitary cell every day that was situated in the
west side of the prison building. It was by no means eacy to endure the
heat although it was more bearable than the cold of the winter. When I
felt the concrete walls evan at 2300 hours at night, the heat still remained
in the walls. It was more so especially after we had started our air de-
fense training. In the summer usually window screens are put on to keep
out mosquitoes and the windows are kept open but, during air defense train-
ing, windows had to be covered up completely to prevent any light from
leaking out. As I sat quietly while I perspired profusely in a closed and
smell solitary cell with its ever-hot walls, I felt as if I were going to
turn into a human "bean-sprout". Even when summer came, they did not re-
place our winter quilts. At any rate, I had endured the c∞ld all through
the winter with this cuilt and I could not possibly have used it any longer,
unless I made up my mind to sprout, too. Nevertheless, I would catch cold
at dawn if Ididn't use this quilt and so there was no alternative. HOkKAIDO
is noted for dense fog but there is relatively little of this in HAKOnATE.
However, wind called " YA!ASE" blows occasionally. "YAMASE" means northeast
wind and, vhen this wind blows, it gets cold even in summer.
These hot days continue through July and August but it suddenly be-
comes cool vhen September arrives. Autumn maple leaves in HOkkAIDO are very
brilliant. 'ot only the maple but various other trees don autumnal tints.
The brilliancy of the cherry leaves turned crimson is a splendor that cannot
be seen in Japan Proper. vany of the leaves turn yellow, but the yellow it-
self is exquisitely beautiful. Autumn goes by quickly, lasting only through
eptember and at it's heels, the long, cold vinter arrives.
WAR, PRTSON AND PRIFST
Ceneral ly speaking, the scenery I saw from my solitary cell window was
as described above, and alothough at times there were happy moments brought
about as a result of natural changes, the seven years I spent in HAKODATE
were indeed dreary living. But, of course, I did not just weave salmon fish
nets and watchthe scenery during these years. My mind was not set on these
things. As TOIUDA, ICHIKAIA, KOKURIO, and others had done in ABASHIRI, I,
also, as a member of the Japan Communist Party, continued the struggle, during
my prison confinement. I protested to the prison officials and to visiting
government officials about the outrageous treatment in the prison,remonstrated
with them against the corruption and violence practiced by the bureaucrats,
warned them of the fate of JAPAN. Even the convicts were worried and asked
me as to what will be the destiny of JAPAN that was advancing blindly toward
destruction. Tronically, the officials who had lost their reasoning powers
in their enthusiasm for the war of aggression treated me as if I was crazy.
The convicts who were the outcasts of society, on the contrary, gradually be-
gan to understand what I had tried to tell them and later on, they even said,
52

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
"It is hopeless unless we let the members of the Communist Party
a drastic reform of JAPAN right away".
of course, in the prison, we were not permitted to read freely the
books we desired. As a rule, the political offenders and the ideological off
ers were allowed to read somewhat more than the ordinary convicts but we wer
treated as exceptions and were permitted to read only a limited number of
foolish books on divine inspirations concerning the Emperor system, and on
religion, such as Shintoism and Buddhism. There was a trusty system and
prisoners promoted to first class were able to read almost any commun books
but we were excluded. we were absolutely forbidden to read newspapers. How-
ever, in spite of these disadvantages, we were able to grasp the existing
situation in JAPAN and in the world by reading carefully with analytical
mind whatever reading materials we were able to get. Through these readings, we
foresaw that the Japanese imperialists were bound to start a criminal war of
aggression in the near future and also foresaw that by driving the people to
the depth of misery, they would follow through this war. However, the probablo
outcome of this war would be miserable wrechedness. Nothing was more disap-
pointing than to watch the materialization of our predictions one by one while
we were helplessly confined in the prison.
The China Incident broke out in July 1937, the fourth summer after I
arrived in HAKonATE. In prison, there were cries of "The war is on and
how shall we punish the outrageous CHINA". Accordingly, those from warden
down even to the priest became war mongers. The convicts believed it to be
the truth when they were told, "'e must defeat CHINA because she is wrong".
At first, the convicts were influenced by the war mongers because they were
ignorant of the world situation and their ways of looking at things were in
general simple and feudal. As usual, contributions for national defense
were the first to bring in "war atmosphere" into the prison life. I didn't
even donate a penny but it looked as if the convicts donated in the begin-
ning what little money they had in their purses. of course, as far as they
were concerned, they considered this as a means of gaining favorable considera-
tion for early release. As for me, the authorities demanded me to make do-
nations many times, but I alweys refused point blank. In prison, the wages
were one yen and twenty sen (y1.20) for working twelve and one-half hours
per day for one vhole month. Even though this occurred ten years ago, it seems
to lack common sense. "hen we told the newcomers that we arened one yen and
twenty sen, they asked us, "Is it one yen and twenty sen a day?" "hen we told
them, "No, it's one yen and twenty sen per month", they were very much sur-
prised. The convicts donated what little money they had at first, but they
gradually began to think to themselves as repeated requests for donations
were made that probably it was all right for the warden, the priest, and the
others as they had to produce good results, but for the convicts to be forced
to dnoate on top of what they had already given, the story gradually began
to sound a bit exaggerated. They could not help hesitating when the matter
grew to the point that the next goal of the donation was to be an airplane.
Moreover, the convicts gradually began to get acquainted with us, saying that
what sHIGA had been saying was quite true.
Once, OTANI kocho, the Chief Priest of HICASHIHONGANJI, and his wife
came to the prison with showy introductions and gave a short talk on something
like "The Establishment of a State on the Pasis of pirit" (SEISHIN RIKKOKU) and
ducational Refore (Kyogaku AssHIN)". Of course, we were not allowed to
go to the church but the convicts who heard the talks came back and they all
said in unison "They just came to collect offerings!" As the war progressed,
collection of money was not an easy task as in the beginning. Both inside
and outside of the prison, various methods were devised to make the col-
lections more successful. And this was one of their plans. Such an unreason-
able way of collecting money was a failure inasmuch as the convicts had abso-
lutely no faith in the priests. To make matters worse, the corruption of the
prison officials as well as the priests had become so evident as the war
progressed, that they had aroused the ire of the convicts about the time of
their visit. Furthermore, they aggravated the ill feelings of the convicts
against the authorities. One reason why the convicts gradually lost interest

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
in the war and began to see how things actually existed waa
were in a position where they could not help realising the
war through their own bitter experiences of human exploitations
by the war. During the Nomanhan Incident, the Sumi Unit from
Hakodate district was annihilated. At that time, two or three conviots
said to me, "I guess this was is lost. The officials have no right to
exploit us in this kind of war". These were the words of the persons who
were exploited to the limit and who had been thoroughly convinced.
Prisons seem like a quiet, isolated spot away from thesociety if
you look at it superficially, but actually, it can be called a society
of all sociaties - only on a small scale - as life there is so simple and
without deceit. Inside the prison, my contacts were only inmates and
prison officials but even through them, I was able to understand clearly
that popular feeling on the outside world was gradually growing weary of
the war.
THE SPRING BREEZE AFTER SEVEN YEARS OF ABSENCE
I was transferred from HAKODATE to the prison in CHIBA in April 1940.
y beloved comrades, TOMA and TCHIKAWA from ABASHIRI, were with me and
for the first time in seven years, I met them and was able to enjoy the
spring breeze of the mainland. The ardent fighting spirit of both TOKUDA
and ICHIkA'A remained unchanged, but their emaciation was a pitiful sight.
ToFJMA suffered from eye trouble and neuralgia and his head had become
noticeably bald. I could not help but quiver with resentment when I heard
from TCHIk!'A, who had become as thin as an incense stick. Of the horrible
life they had undergone for seven years at ARASHTRI. On the other hand,
in JAPAN, persons like KIHARA Fusanasuke were insisting on carrying through
imperialism end exclusionism. For this reason, the spring breeze which I
felt for the first time in seven years and which should have given a
pleasant atmosphere was actually not so welcome.
It seems that the Government's plan, at first, was to send us to
YOSURE but they had changed their plans enroute and sent us to CHIBA. The
year 1940 was the so-called 2,600th aniversary of the Imperial era, and re-
mission was to be granted on this grand occasion. our sentence of ten years
and ten months . (In our case the six years we were held pending trial was
not credited toward the sentence of ten years). Therefore, there was no
reason why we whould feel gratiful for the remission. e had actually
spent thirteen years in prison before coming to CHTBA). At any rate, our
terms of imprisonment was reduced to eight years and two months by this
remission, which meant that it would end in November 1941. The imperialists
devised a plan to establish precautionary detention quarters within the
prison where we were to be held after the completion of our term. Apparent-
1y, they had decided to bring us to KOSUCE from HOKKAIDO but, upon con-
sideration, they remembered that at KOSUGE were SANO, NABEYAMA and others.
They taught that, if TOKIDA and SHIGA were brought there, their association
would have a gad influence on SANO, NABFYAIm and the others and would be
troublesome for the authorities. For this reason, they had changed their
plans and vwe were dropped off on the way and sent to the prison in CHTBA
temporarily.
CIAM SOUP AND HANDCUFFS
Living conditions in CHIRA were worse than in HOkkAIDO. The officials
were constantly stealing just as they had dones in HAkODATE. Generally
speaking prison officials commit more wrong than any other type of official.
At places where the coercion is greater upon the convicts, you will find
more dishonesty of this nature. The officials in charge have far worse
character than the robbers an jail. In HOKKAIDO, it is impossible to work
54

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
without a stove in winter, so officials burn coal for warmth. ww
sward trees, which he had brought from HOnSHU, and everytime theme wem
shipment of good coal, he used it to make steam for his hothouse. Livin
conditions had become quite acute by the time I came to CHIBA, and with
the war's progress, thievery by the officials had increased noticeably.
Because all the good items were stolen by them, the food served to us
was very poor. Although CHIBA is a vegetable growing district, we received
only about one match box full of subsidiary vegetables to eat with one
meal. "hen this match box full happened to be spinach, it was certainly
a disaster, for instead of the tender part, the hard bark-like stem was
served to us. Clam soup was occasionally served. Clam soup sounds good,
but to tell the t ruth, there was nothing but shells in it. "Seven or
eight shells in the soup of clams. How sad it is to find not one little
piece of meat". I showed the above parody of a poem to the visiting
relative, but it was quickly intercepted by the guard on duty. Conse-
quently, our undernourished condition which we had brought over from
HAKODATE became worse, affecting our eyes especially. We could not read
a book for one minute before our eyes became very sore. And eventually,
it was impossible to keep them open. TOKUDA's presbyopia rapidly grew
worse and ICHIKA'A's teeth crumbled into decay, and his arms and legs be-
came as thin as withered pampas grass. I could not bear to look at them.
The brutality of the punishment inflicted on the convicts increased
in proportion to the idsorderliness of the officials. "e wore handcuffs
continuously, even when we went to the latrine, when eating our meals, or
when we went to bed. Rear shackles means a method in which a leather belt
is worn around the waist, having leather arm bands and into these bands the
wrists are put through. But these arm bands are placed to the back and
thus both hands are held fast in the rear. "e ate, went to the latrine,
prepared our beds, and slept in this condition. This is inconceivable to
persons who have not experienced prison life. This unspeakable cruelty
or injustice was inflicted upon the prisoners, under the name of "punish-
ment", until the officials vere satisfied, sometimes for one month or
even for two months.
I was at C"IBA for a year and a half and spent partically all of this
time in bed. In September 1941, three months prior to the Pacific War,
I was transferred from CUTBA to KOSUGE. Just before the transfer, the
officials' clever pressure upon us became quite violent. It was their aim
to overthrow each of us but of course, we did not yield.
Meeting SANA and NADEVAA.
Upon my arrival at KosucE, I vas amazed to learn of the excellent
treatment given to SANo and NAnEVAA, who were captured a year later than
me. In AkonATE, additional winter clothing was not given to us until
midwinder set in, but in KOSUCE, where it was much warmer than in YOKKAIDO
provisions for winter dothing were made much earlier and the quality was
far better too. On seeing SAND and NAPEYA!A, I realized how unfairly and
how cruelly we had been treated in HOKKAIDO. SANO and NAPFYAMA in those
days were making no attempts to disguise their worship of such persons as
ARAKI Sadao, MASHKI Jinzaburo and TJO Hideki. Persons who were involved in
the February indident were also at KOsUCE and, in comparison to us they were
living like lords. They were allowed to take walks whenever they please;
they had no work to do; and they ate far better food. These facts were in-
deed very undisguisedly carried out. "hen we were transferred to KOsUGE, I
was again asked by the officials, "How do you look upon the future of this
"ar?" "hen I replied, "Certainly there is no doubt that we will lose", they
were quite taken aback and said, "Good heavens! You're crazy!" In amking my
reply, I was not trying to be spiteful and my mind was far more reliable
than that of the inquiring official. Taking various points into considera-
tion and judging with a clear head, I could not help but draw the conclusion
that we would lose. e were, however, treated like raving maniacs because
we were the only ones who were so persistent about RUSSIA's victory at a
time when GERMANY had just succeeded in pushing through to OSCOW and most
of the people believed that SOVIET RUSSIA would lose for sure.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
We had also foreseen the war with AkRICA
I heard that KURUSU had flown to AMERICA from HONGH
used by the Japanese Army at the time of the Sino-J
attack. We seized every opportunity to stress the recklesepes
this war and emphasized the fact that it would bring much misery
Japanese people. It is needless to say, however, that this aid not
militarists and officials of their delusions which finally resultod in
outbreak of this criminal warfare in December.
THE PRECAUTIONARY DETENTION HOUSE
I was at kOSucE for three months and was then finally transferred
to the TOYOTAMA Prison and put in the precautionary detention house,
located at one end of the prison on the 2lst day of the month in which
the war broke out.
we were sent all of a sudden to the detention house without a trial.
Even the Law for the Preservation of Public Peace provides for a trial
in case of imprisonment, and yet, the outrageous militarists disregarded
complacently the provisions of this unique and obnoxious law.
TIZUkA was the presiding judge at the time, and I keenly felt the
helpless state into which the bureaucratic system had fallen through cor
ruption in such a short period of time. As the first trial dragged on, in
order to avoid embarrassment by making ridiculousremarks as they had done
in earlier days, the judge and the prosecutor read reference books and
studied a little on Communism before dealing with the Communists. When I
met them again after a lapse of approximately ten years, I discovered that
they had completely lost this attitude. In the atmosphere of autocracy
which disregards individual personatity, the extent to which the Japanese
judicial officials have become haughty and bossy and the limit of their
stupidity and ignorance which enabled them to carry out such haughty and
bossy attitudes were utterly outrageous. "e were continuously tormented
at the detention house by their efforts to separate us as much as possible.
Concentrated attacks were continously directed at TOKUMA and me. On the
other hand, they tried to get us chenged over by feeding us bait with
promises of better treatment if we relented. However, we were constantly
and firmly bound together under one motive. Thefts by prison officials be-
came more frequent and extensive and since the detention house was com-
prised of only a small number of persons, when things were taken so forcibly
by the officials, the damage was great. From around spring of 1943, in-
mates in the prisons throughout JAPAN died of malnutrition one after another.
e tried all possible means to fight against such conditions. e accused
"AYAsUI Takayuki, our second detention house chief, of substantiating evidence
for infringement on people's rights and for misconduct in office. HAYASHI
was certainly a terrible character. The situation became rather troublesome,
so to camouflage the situation, he was transferred to NIIGATA by the Depart-
ment of Justice.
"ASAKI, Akira once informed us "In Nazi CERYANY the Communists are
not allowed to stay alive. In Japan, however, through the kind benevolence of
the Emperor, we are doing you a special favor and letting you continue to
live. Be grateful". HAYASHI, reference to whom was made earlier, constantly
reminded us, ""E'll soon kill you. Ye'll kill you when air raids start".
They were stubborn and crazy.
THE ATR RAIDS
There was a great commotion in the detention house on 18 April in the
year following the outbreak of the war, when Japan experienced her first
air raid. NAKAUPA Yoshio, the present chief prosecutor of HAKODATE, was
the detention house chief at that time. hen we first saw the planes we said
to him, "They are American planes", but NAKAMURA replied, "Don't talk non-
sense", and did not believe us at all. However, they soon realized that it

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
was a raid by real American planes and became greatly confusw
cuffs, ropes, shovels, and pistols were hastily assempled at
They were preparing to kill us but we were able to see very plainly all
that was going on from where we were. Their frantic confusion was  pitt-
ful sight. The air raid sirens began to sound very frequently toward the
latter part of 1944, and by the beginning of 1945, air raids commenoed in
real earnest. Since our 14 April experience, we firmly demanded per-
mission to be taken outside when air raids occurred, but the officials
tried, somehow or other, to keep us in. When we were attacked on 10
March, the planes came ohly one at a time, and, when we said, "Let us to
out" they refused our request, saying, "It's only one plane". They
finally consented when we clamored, "Don't be foolish! Whether it is a
single plane or several planes, bombs are flying above our heads. Let
us out! " During the final big air raid on TOkYO on 25 May, considerable
amounts of incendiary bombs were dropped on the detention house. This
happened on the night following a party where SATo of the Department of
Justice, who was the chief of the Criminal Affairs Administration Bureau,
had been invited as a guest. The officials had all become quite in-
toxicated. The Chief was so drunk that he could not even return home,
and stayed at the prison club in front of the prison. The officials of
the detention house had a continuation spree and were more groggy from
excessive drinking. It was at this time that we were attacked. In
spite of their usual bravado of "hen the time comes, we'll take care of
these Communists", when emergency actually arose, they revealed a dis-
graceful behaviour and just as the HEIKE had acted at FUJIKAIIA. Even
under such tense conditions they continued with their silly talk and
showed no intentions of letting us out. If we had not dashed out, half-
threatening the officials, and extinguished the incendiary bombs, the
detention house would probably have been destroyed completely. Although
the fact that the detention house escaped ruin while the officials were
helplessly drunk, was entirely because of our efforts, the chief merely
remarked upon seeing the standing buildirg, "It's a miracle that it es-
caped burning", and beaved a sigh of relief, adding no further comments.
we were transferred to the Fuchu Detention House on 29 June, a
month after this big air raid, and this was the last place of my 18 years
of prison life.
THE IDEOLCCY OF "PUBLIC MANAGEMENT" ORIGINATES IN THE
DETENTION HOURS
"e observed the progress of the war closely from the detention
house. It was when the entire nation was rejoicing over the success of the
Pearl Harbor attack that we were first sent to the Kitatama Detention House,
and we fully knew then that it was doubtful whether JAnAN would retain its
superiority for even half a year. e were certainly not hoping for defeat,
but we persistently warned them to stop fighting without delay because
Japan's defeat was so inevitable. Just as we had expected, in EUROPE,
GRMANY's defeat became decisive when she met resistance at STALINGRAD, and
the battle of GUADALCANAI was the turning point in the PACIFIC. Even after
this, the war progressed just as we had warned, and the hardships of the
people became more severs as time went on. By the time we were transferred
to FUCHU, the development of events became very clear to everybody.
e continued our cry for the cessation of war and, at the same time,
we felt that the day would soon come when we would again be free, and so we
made preparations for such an eventuality. As usual, there were restrictions
placed on our reading matters, but even through reading books by authors such as
HINo Ashihei or ozAkI shiro, we were able to weed out opposing meanings of the
facts. e clearly saw the picture depicting the strengthening as well as
the degenerating trend in the internal operation of militarism in these
books. ith this corruption and incompetency of the enemy in mind, we set
ourselves to earnest thinking of how and what we should do to save the
Japanese people from their pitiful plight, when we were released and had
gone into the world once again.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
The industrial management plan, TOKUDA's
of Agriculture", which appeared in the YOMIURI SHIMBUNa
cations, and the various essays which were printed in the AKAHA
reappeared at that time, were all fruits of our thinking, stu
discussions held whenever opportunity offered while we were at thedo
tention house.
THE GATE OF FREEDOM
Finally, the longawaited day arrived when we could work again.
It was not until they, who had called us traitors, had turned the entire
nation ito a prairie of ashes taken the lives of million citizens, and
deprived the people of peace and happiness that this day actually arrived.
On 15 August, the chief and all the rest of us at the detention
house gathered around the radio to hear the re-broadcase of the Imperial
message. Due to constant static, we could not catch what was said but
understood a little of the part where he said, "submitting to the unbear
able". At any rate, it was clear that we had been defeated.
Since then the officials looked like fools. We immediately de-
manded liberation, but, in spite of our repeated and firm demands, the
matter remained unsettled. The month of September passed but stiil they
did not release us. On 4 October, however, the matterwas settled by the
following order of SCAP:
"Iiberate all policical offenders."
Refore the end of September, U. S. Army reporters came three times
for investigation. Tb their inquiry, "Are there any political offenders
here?", the officials always replied, "No, there are none here", and they
pretended that they did not know. On 30 September, however, Mr. ISAAC of
Newsweek, APUKYUSU (TN: Exact ROUAJI translation of the original KANA) of
the French News Agency, and Mr. CTRAN (TN: Txact ROMAJI translation of the
original KAN!) came. They did not approach the matter directly by saying,
"Are there any political criminals here?", but first said, "Show us your
prison." Unable to refuse, the officials first showed them the factory.
The next order was, "Show us your community cell", and so this was also
shown to them, inasmuch as there was no alternative but to comply vith
their wish. The next order, however, was "now show us your solitary cells".
Fuchu Prison was a cross-shaped American style building and, when they were
led to the building where these solitary cells were located and had arrived
at the intersection of this cross, the three men turned suddenly toward
the officials and said point blank, "The political offenders are here,
aren't they?" ven then, the startled officials attempted to fool them at
first and said, "'e have no such persons here", but they were stumped at
the question that followed, "Then, is it all right to call in the Army?"
"hey finally confessed, "To tell the truth, the detention house is beyond
that partition". The three men rushed into the detention house while r.
MARUYYUSU shouted, "Is 'r. TOYUDA here? Is "r. SHIGA here?" This was the
first time we heard an outsider's voice.
From this day to the day of our release - a period of about ten days
we were visited daily by war correspondents of various agencies. r.
mmpsoN, Dr. UOPYN, and Lt. Col. DAVIS of SCAP came and asked us about our
intentions after the release. They also informed us of the Headquarter's
plans.
e went out in the rain on 10 Cctober at 1000 hours. The huge iron
gate was opened and we comrades left the prison, arm in arm, and went into
the world of freedom, after an absence of 18 yeers. veryone seemed to be
deeply moved when they saw the people who had been waiting for us, waving
their red flags in the rain. I was told that some of them had even come the
previous night and waited for us.
From then on, we promptly began our activities with refreshed
vigor.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
EE
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIBER
FOR JAPAN
No. 462
AU61 0108
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTIENT OF STAFE
894.00B/7-2348
Subject: Attempted Assassination of TOkUDA Kyuichi, Seeretary General
of the Japan Commuaist Party.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's airgram No. 153
FE
of July 20, 1948 concerning the attempted assassination of TOkUDA
Kyuichi, Secretary General of the Japan Communist Party, in the
city of Saga, Kyashu, on July 19, 1948 by KOGA Ichiro, member of an
anti-commmunist organization.
Local communist interest in the case has been intensified by
the fact that the incident took place so soon after the attempt on the
life of Palmiro TOGLIATTI, the Italian comunist leader.
Although government leaders have publicly deplored the incident,
Premier AShInA Hitoshi described it as an indication of "the serious
struggle being carried out between the extreme right and the extreme
left". The gravity of the incident is further heightened by the fact
that Mr. Tokude is a member of the House of Representatives.
The Japan Communist Party quickly attempted to make political
capital out of the incident. As soon as news of the attack was
received in Tokyo, members of the Central Committee met in an emergency
meeting and on July 20, issued a statement to the press charging that
V
the attempt on the life of Mr. Tokude represents "an ettack on the
vanguard of the demceratic revolution by militaristic and reactionary
elements", and that the reactionary policies of the Ashida Cabinet
encouraged this display of violence. During the day the Communist
Party Headquarters in Tokyo was besieged by party members inquiring of
Mr. Tokuda's condition and expressing indignation at the outrage.
In ita issue of July 2l, Akahata (Red Flag), the communist daily,
devoted considerable space to the incident. The paper charged that
Koga had acccmplices at the meeting in Saga City, and played up his
membership
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 462
July 25, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
memberahip in the Anti-Communist League. The following day Akmkate
published "An Appeal to the Working Classes" whieh categorieally
placed responsibility for the attack on "the governing class" which
"has at last come to use the meanest acts of violenee in their attitude
toward the working classes, being unable to convinee them of their
make-believe democratic policies". The comanists demanded that the
Ashida Cabinet resign and that severe punishment be givem "the terrorist
and his group". Other demands called for the destruetion of "all anti-
Commnist militaristic terrorist groups," lifting all "oppression" from
the workers, and steps to "overcome fascism with a democratic recial
front".
Statements were also issued by the commmist-infiltrated Government
Railway Workers Union, the All-Japan Communication Workers Uaion, the
All-Japan Electric Industry Workers Union and the All-Japan Coal Workers
Union. On July 20 the directors of the Natiomal Congress of Industrial
Unions, communist infiltrated, held an emergency meeting. In a state-
ment to the press the National Congress of Industrial Umions stressed
that the attack on Mr. Tokuda was similar to the Togliatti inoident,
and "our working olasses will probably resort to a large seale offensive".
There are increasing signs that the Communists through the red labor
unions, are planning to use the Tokuda case as justification for an
intensified labor offensive, the principal aim of which is to overthrow
the present cabinet.
Similarly Mr. KURODA Hisao, Chairman of the Japan Farmers Union,
issued a statement to the press declaring that the government was
responsible for "this sort of reactionary violence".
Koga Ichiro, the twenty-eight year old would-be assassin who
gave himself up to the authorities the night of the incident, is a miner
in one of the coal mines in Saga Prefecture. According to the Kyodo
News Ageney, Koga expressed "keen regret" that he had been unsuecessful
in killing Mr. Tokuda. The same source reports that Koga is an ex-
soldier from Manchuria whose entagonism toward comuniam was sharpened
by his internment at the end of the war by the Chinese Communist Eighth
Route Army at Tsitsihar, Manchuria.
According to the Tokyo Asahi, Koga is a member of the Otsuru Youth
Section of the Anti-Communist League (Hankyo Remmei), the headquarters of
which is in the city of Fukuoka. Koga told the police authorities after
his s urrender that he originally intended to assassinate Mr. Tokuda,
Mr. SHIGA Yoshio, and Mr. KONNO Yojiro during the May Day celebration
but he did not have sufficient funds to make the trip to Tokyo.
Mr. Konno, member of the Communist Party's Central Committee, is in
charge of the Kyushu Regional Committee and has been particularly active
promoting party agitation in that area, especially among coal miners.
Although
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 462
Ju7 25, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Although Iyashm is ose of the majer industrial distriets of
Japan, commmaist activity there hes not been spectacuiar er motably
successful as compered to other arems. In the metiemal elestions of
1946 and l947 cemmusist candidates for the House of Representatives
from Kyuskm prefectures mede the poorest showing. At the same time,
nationalistic sentiment has almays beon strong im Kyasim, espesially
in Dmamoto and Sage Prefectures. It is sigmifieant therefore that
anti-commumist activity has been most conspicuous in the Ayushu area,
where a mumber of anti-communist crganisations, sush as the Anti-
Communist League, raferred to above, and the Chrymanthemam Flag
Society (Kikuhata Doshi Kai) have been organised sinee the emd of the
war.
Koga's voluntary surrender to the police and his attempt to justify
his act on the plee that "Japan's development could mever meterialize
so long as the Comumist Party remains in the country" is strikingly
similar to the behavior o the "Young Officer" assassins in the l9so's.
Although purely co-incidental, it is interesting to note that one of
the leaders of the May 15 assassimations in 1932 was a Lieutenant K0GA
from Saga Prefecture. These superficial but striking similarities
will probably be played up hereafter by the Japanese commmnists and
their sympathizers, charging that militarism and fascism are being
revived in Japan.
There is as yet no indication that the Anti-Communist League or
any other organized groups assisted in planning and executing the
attempted assassination.
Respectfully yours,
.Becace
W. J. Sebald
Original and ozalid to Department.
Copy to: American Embassy, Moscow.
810.8
CNSpinke:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.89)
Form DS-302
(7-2-46)
DIVISION OF
ACTIC
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
PLAIN
15
Control 10209
Action:
EUR
Rec'd July 29, 1948
info :
11:27 e.m.
SS
C
P
FRO
C
SAM
50
 r 
FE
OLA
p caby 29.
CIA
POS
l pupsve  y 29 carry ter of messege from Secretarlat
P
Cenerel Commvmrtne Japanese Communint Perty to Centrel
FURY
Couatatee bore sclovleugtng tatuer's me ssage concerning
OCR
tn n .
Fext seeomponied by perontheticel
894.00B/7-2948
stotemeat  reeeaved three days deter then date indi-
coved on nn
2457. reposered Tolyo 2o. Deporament
ROELER
AUG
FILED
工
1
H
0
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL LES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.85)
NAONA
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH
NA
INCOMING TELEGRAM
11
DIRESTON
PLAYN
Uo pertri no of State
N
42
L
Contrel 2600
I achi
SEA
Pion
Rec'd August
1948
8:28ISION OF
8-9-41
NOR HEAST ASIAN AFFIRS
17
AUGT9548
FROM Shengha
3A7
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.00
T0:
Secretary of Stete
016
1764
NO:
I, August 9
Poilowing Cent ral News Agoncy item dietr buted Auguar:
0
10
"The Japanese Communist Party may gain by several seets in
B
URA
the next Diet as s result of the current serles of sstt.
.H
occupation movements which have won sympsthy of meny aon.
8
Comnuaists one bigh Japenese Government officlel sdnt tes
1
6
todsy.
48
Noo-Communiss syopetb zere ers pifrzculs co tdear y 
they find t wlecesaary and cnexpedient to expoee ben
ce e but their uumbers will be revealed by he so re
bellot at the generel electtons which are antir spe: sd for
the next severel woothe.
Meay Japanese politicel observers feal ths Cormunlss
nov occupy rive soete in the Dtet wals ne holaany svo
in the next Diet although some sey shle s eo exs
couservativs eellesce.
Memberahip ip the Japenese Commertst Per y has
been doubled durtng tne riret nelf or ats year
noy membars are receat ly repe rtated Jepenece
territorlee. Hovever, memberehap of voe porty
smotl compa red wire the  waber or the won Comsun
izare who at leeer semporaraly support e aa't
1
D
As peported py om re Wewe o mevere poevtoun
paceatly, shee are meay daps ase o w  l
beld the tdee of she occurat too be we con taued
1
a2
merely bocause she Allled Prw eno
)
seves o the rme of peere r p
20
a
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.92)
PLAIN
-2~, #144, August 9. from Shonghe1
groving with the fear that thls country will have no
legal stetus and wili be unprotected in the event of future
hostilities.
In the recent months there have been strong ruwors from
unkllown sources to the effect that the trited States would
abendon Jepan in emergency. Withdrewel of Americen troops
Pron southern Ko:es would heigrten this fear. Therefore,
thi votirng strength of the Japenese Communiat Party hes been
tullt up by e compinatlon of the Japenese peoples rear of
Ru sia and reseatmept against the occupation.
Neo-Communlst part1es roc ogr::ze this new strength of 1o
Jipanese Communlet Purty. The idea of a "Centrai Prolticn?
Liegue" suggested by Lemocratic Prrty leader, Vateru
Nirahashi, recently is ooviously intended as e mrce to con
solidete the forces wnich heve hitherto been di ided luto
nany bickering elements.
Ihe fact that Narsheshi propoaed a "soclety of patriotic
jove for the fatherlend" ae the firs! stey shows thet the
Communists earller cempaign for "recial ndupendence"
which has in reality peen an anti-pecupation cempaign wae
Fuccessfui and popular n this sam, conne:tion. a move-
pont started by promtnent Soc ai Denscrats o egitate for
an early peace treaty may be vogarrod os heving e similar
slgnificance.
Diepite the fact ther Jenere! Dourlas MecArinur's recent
asmorandun prohihiting strikes among goveromeut orkers
will hp stebilize the economy. it is raken in mony Irc:ee
a: another exawpie of reevy-hended actlon by thy occuperl y
authorities who have given tho Japanese Jovernment. lit:ie
freedom of action although 1t 1s fully three yeure s1: e to
oc upatlon bogan.
in this wey the more belligerent labor leadere who etli
dofiestly declare their intention of fightiug Jepanese
Government legisletion to implement MacArthur's idee: ro
gutting much support from non-iapor and non Comoun : iras.
While the increese in populerity of Communtst poliry he:
boen worthy of potice there is sill lir' le possioily
ho Communists will veccme suy consideruble influones in
co mal politics in Japan in tre noir fu ure
However. on
JEDUt

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.81)
PLAN
4Augus9. from Shenghe
abese goaromun offielal points out that a large seg-
 orvhe Tape eee people hes peen seoretly won over by
'e t e Sommualss have peen the only group eble
me gurega o etete cojeetions and dissatis
to
rope e cups menr 1764, August 9.
CADO

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED S
POLITICAL ADVISER
No. 510
NORTY
COFIDENTIAL
0149
Tokyo, August 1,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
5
DEPAR
Subject: Ian-siatic Jommunist 3loc.
DL
The Lonorable
The secret: ry o' st te,
OE
4XR'S
iN
nashington.
711.93/7-3098
3ir:
xr
I have the honor to refer to despatch no. 689 from
the american Consul Gener:1 in shenghai, dated July 30,
711.93
1948, on the subject of "Chine-United Stet Japan Relations"
with which was enclosed the text of an article by r. HUAN
Hsians on "Chine-nited tutes-Japan friangular Relations",
published in the China neconstruction onthly (Shanghai),
ACTI N
July 1, 194e, described s left-win liberal publication.
FE
XR
.00B/8-1248
COIES
The ar unents pursued in the hina Reconstruotion
TOEAR
honthly article follow closely the present propaganda lines
0
edvanced by the Jepan Communist .arty. The striking sim-
.FC
ilarity stronly surests coordinated effort by the Japanese
OFD
communists n: the so-called "left-wing liberals" in China.
Pos
OLA
.ccording to r. iuen's urticle, both chine and Japan
DK
are "the objective of meric n expansion and aggression";
"reactionary forces" in J pun hev ulready sacrificed the
politicsl and economic independence of their country and
have sold out the interests of the Japanese people in
exchenge for merican aid so thtt they can preserve their
ruling power und suppress the mns:es; and a similar situation
exists in China. ihese ch rges are pirt and parcel of
present-day propag nde Lines bein: pushed by the Japanese
communists who ure ttemptin to arouse the Japanese with
the threat of " merican imperi: lism" worxin hand in hand
with Japanese resction. The uapanese comunists lso
frequently point to merican ctivity in Jhina as a paralle
example of this dnger.
S
Like r. luen, the apanese conmunists ssert that the
C
S
peoples of China and Japen have a common interest in oppos-
ing unerican "imperielism" in order to preserve their
A
democratic development and to prevent the united t tes
from reducing the two countries to : "semi-colony stutus".
It is sinificant to note tht the "semi-colony st tus"
slogan was used by the japnese conmunists as early as the
Yomiuri newspaper strile in Tokyo in the sunmer of 1946.
The slogan has been repeated incessuntly and appears in
almost every labor lispute in which the cormunists have a
894.0
hand and in virtually all communist propaganda thenes.
since the
CO.FIDENTI..L

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 165
August 12, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2-
Since the first of 1948 the cormunist-inspired threat of
Japan's being reduced to a semi-colony has become an
integrel part of the widespread "Democratic Racial Front"
movement sponsored by the communists.
The "Democratic hacial ront" movement is designed to 
awaken Japanese to the alleged dangers of "racial enslave-
ment" at the hands of the United States. It is a direct
appeal to Japanese naticnalistic and racial sentiment and
represents a subtle adaptation by the communists of the
pwerful racial propaganda employed by the Japanese militar-
ists. at the sme time, the "Democratic Racial Front"
moveuent envisuges broad pan-asiatic possibilities, and part
of this movement's propecanda is centered on the theme of
the community of interests among the peoples of Asia in
resisting merican "imperielism" and "aggression".
Divorced from its source, the Asia econstruction
Monthly article might well be taken as a directive of the
Japan Communist Farty, so closely does it parallel the
present policies of the Japanese communists. Almost identi-
cally similar lines of attack are noted among the communists
in Korea, and it is not sur rising that Soviet radio broad-
XR
cests beamed at Japan, Korea, and China frequently employ
such propaganda arguments.
895.00
It is believed that these identical but widely separ-
861.202
ated attacks on the United States cen be traced to a common
source. vidence is accumulating in the intelligence files
of General headguarters, Supreme Jommander for the Allied
rowers, which plainly indicates thet the soviets have
established a covert branch of the Cominform in the Far
ast, and that to date its primry function is to coordin-
ate propaganda and other activities among the various
communist parties of the r ast long lines of attack
specified by the oviet union.
Respectfully yours,
. J. Sebold
Original and ozalid to ep rtment
Copies to:
American Embasey, Manking
American mbassy, .oscow
merican Consul General, Shenghai
800/891
CNSpinks/gm
CONNTDENTTAL

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.91)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF CONMUNNCATI
AIRGRAM
1027
From:
American Embassy,
Paris, Franco
Dited:
RLSTRICTID
R c'd: sept. 7, 3:23 p.m.
2
SEP 8
DEPARTHENT
A
MESSAGE CENTER
EUROFEAN AFFAIRS
he ocroof tate,
ACTION: EUR
OFFICE OF
INFO:
Washan son, L. C.
DC/R
SA/M
EUR/X
A-939, Au 1st 31, 1948
つ
OLA
22
CIA
Teleprans news ter. da elined Tokio indil A I:
P
august 29 roports Corsnunist mombors Japaneso diet
POS
vo other vit: pocialist lefi are formin "Loague for
PC
Defonse of emocracy". H!. Im alds that all "democra."
political purtles and rass (rgarizetions: peasant and
vorlior tred, unions, ant snx ll ercrant and industriel
croups havo heon invited to join Loague.
CAFFCRY
SEP 14 1948
1
FIID
(opy to US, OLA)
Copy to Toko
王
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returmed to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
Aotion: FR
PLAIN
Info :
SAN
cOHerU1/8193
BUR
OLI
Reo'd September 18, 1948
CIA
11:49 a.m.
POS
PA
Office of
MURX
FROM: MOBO,W
DCR
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
To : Secretary-of State
SEP 1948
DIRECTOR
NO : 2024, September 18
Department of State
894.00B/9-1848
Tass Tokyo despatches Sov1et press September 16 and 17
report unsuccessful attempt assassiyate member Politburo
Japanese Communist Party, Ritsu Ito, stating Riudze
Azanuna was ordered accomplish deed by President Risse
Party, Fukusi Tsukakoc1, but revealed plan Communist Party
headquarters and police Tmkyo. Newspaper AKAHATA 1ndirectly
quoted as placing blame episode on Ashida Cabinet.
894.00
Dept repeat Tokyo 28.
SMITH
BB:DFF
Note: Relayed Tokyo 9/18/48 11:55 a.m. JP
SEP 27 1948
FILED
PLAIN
HH
THIS CCPY MJST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNSTATES OF AMERICA
ACTION
is assigned to
FOR JAPIOWTHEAST ASIAM AFENRS
OCT141948
DEPARTMERP OF STATE
24, 1948.
No. 680
SECRET
Subject: The Communist Potential in Japan.
894.00B/9-2448
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to tranamit herewith a memorandum on the subject
of the communist potential in Japan, prepared by Foreign Service officer
Charles Nelson Spinks of this Mission who during his previous employ-
ment for the past two years directed investigations of the civil Intelli-
gence Section, General Headquarters, concerning communist activities in
Japan, and has worked closely with Counter-Intelligence Corps operations
on this problem. The detailed study prepared by Dr. Spinks on the
capabilities of the Japanese communists is believed to have wide reference
value in view of the fact that communist activities in Japan for the most
part conform closely to standard communist practices and procedures.
The memorandum offers an analysis of Japanese communist capabilities
as viewed from three standpoints: the overt political potential of the
Japan Communist Party, its covert subversive potential, and its interna-
tional potential.
The overt political potential of the Japanese communists is discussed
in terms of the membership of the Japan Communist party, the support the
party receives from communist sympathizers and other outsiders, communist
results in the national elections of 1946 and 1947, the quality of
communist leadership in Japan, and the general popularity of the communist
party among the Japanese people.
S
C
The Japan Communist Party is now believed to have about one hundred
S
thousand members. This relatively smell political party, however, has
been able to poll around one million votes in each of the two postwar
national elections, plainly indicating that Japanese communists have the
ability to command support from outside the communist ranks. Nevertheless,
in the two national elections the communists received less than four per-
cent of the total vote, and at present have only four members each in the
two houses of the National Diet.
Notwithstanding strenuous membership drives and aggressive election
campaigns, the Japanese communists are not believed to be too greatly
concerned either with a large membership or a large representation in the
National
SECRET

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
-Tokyo!s. No. 650
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-2-
National Diet. The Japan Communist Party is under the tight control of
orthodox Marrists who apparently believe that the party should be a cempast,
close-knit elite corps which leads the masses, rather than a mass party
which is itself a part of the masses. This leadership also rejests to a
considerable extent the view that parliamentary machinery in non-communist
countries should be utilized by the communists to the greatest possible
extent.
It appears that the Japan Communist Party is enjoying a slow but
steady growth in membership, although in recent months there has developed
a significant change in its character. The party is apparently no longer
making gains and is actually suffering some losses of membership in the
labor movament, but this situation is offset by notable gains in membership
among students, the intelligentsia, and repatriates (this Mission's despatch
No. 551, of August h1948) It is believed that the Japanese communists
will again polr a substantial vote in the next national election without,
however, materially increasing their present strength in the National Diet.
8-21/48
ELLTXOLAPISeS
The enclosed memgrandum discusses at length the problem of party leader-
ship, since the influence the communists have exercised in postwar Japan
is not the result of a large membership or outstanding success at the polls,
but is explained to a considerable extent by the tight organization of the
party, the rigorous discipline of its members, their tireless energy, and
the ability of their leaders. Compared with most other communist parties,
however, the Japan Communist Party has not enjoyed leadership of particularly
high caliber. Various historical and environmental factors explain this,
especially the fact that the Japanese generally have remained somewhat
behind the west in the fields of science, economics, sociology, and
historical and political study. Intellectually, therefore, the average
Japanese communist has not been too well equipped to absorb, master, and
practice the complicated precepts of Marxian ideology. The soviet communists
have long recognized the intellectual limitations of their Japanese comrades,
and have endeavored in the past through the special training of young
Japanese communists in Moscow and careful guidance through the International
Liaison Section of the Comintern to give the Japan Communist party proper
guidance and direction. At present it is believed that such direction is
coming largely through the newly-organized Cominform and through the
indoctrination of selected elements among Japanese prisoners of war and
others held in Soviet territories since the end of the war.
It is difficult to measure the popularity of the Japan communist
Party among the Japanese people. In the early stages of the occupation the
general swing to the left, disillusionment with the established order,
economic hardships, and the belief held by many Japanese that the occupation
was partial towerd the communists unquestionably enhanced their prestige
among the people. Judging from the vote received by communist candidates
in the 1947 elections, it would appear that this degree of popularity
continued well into the second year of the Occupation. Since the elections
of 194? there has been no way of measuring communist popularity with any
degree of accuracy. It is apparent, however, that many of the factors which
originally contributed to communist popularity have changed. There are also
indications
SECRET

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
Tókyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-3-
indications of an aggressive and articulate anti-communist movement,
especially in the all-important labor field. Although the Japan
Communist Party has made substantial gains in membership since the
elections of l947 and has further perfected its organization and
methods of operation, it is believed that there has been some decline
in the general popularity of communism in Japan. It will require,
however, another national election to measure this trend accurately.
Since the overt political potential of the Japan communist party
has remained far too low to anticipate a significant rise of
communist power through parliamentary processes, the covert sub-
versive potential of the perty is of much greater importance. The
covert subversive character of the Japan Communist Party is clearly
manifested in its fundamentally conspiratorial attitude and activity.
This activity is carried out mainly through skillful infiltration
into non-communist groups by communist "fractions" which often
succeed in controlling and manipulating such organizations in a
manner designed to benefit the com unists. The most notable examples,
of communist fraction activity are to be found in the labor unions,
especially those which compose the National Congress of Industrial
Unions. Fraction activity, however, is widespread in agricultural
organizations and cultural groups, among teachers and students, and
in government service.
In addition to the i'raction, the Japanese comununists use a
wide variety of other secret "apparats" (covert agencies for carrying
out communist policies), some of which have a distinct military
character, such as the Totsugeki Tai (Attack Corps) and the Boei Tai
(Defense Corps) which are for the purpose of spearheading civil
disturbances and disorders during strikes or labor offensives by
committing acts or sabotage ana terrorism, ana protecting party
headquarters and leaders during offensives. other commmunist
apparats now in existence are espionage nets, and units for rumor-
mongering, character defamation, and the spreading of black propaganda.
These secret apparats are intended to provide covert, often
illegel, parallel activities to support the overt, legal work of the
party. Their existence is clear evidence of the extent to which the
Japan Communist Party is committed under its present leadership to
"revolution by violence", provided, of course, that suitable opportunity
arises for such a drastic course of action. Although the covert subver-
sive potential of the Japanese communists is relatively high, it is
not believed that this potential will be tested in a manner which would,
for the present at leest, seriously challenge the security of the
Occupation; the risks involved are too great. The organization of
such secret apparats is primarily for future use if and when the
Occupation withdraws, or in tne possible event of a Soviet-American war.
The encloseu memorandua aiscusses the international potential of
the Japan Con..unist Party under two headings: its international liaison
and its espionage activities. The international potentiel of the party
may be measured by the extent to which it is capable of assisting com-
munist activities in other countries by coordinated action and exchange
of
SECROET

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 650
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-4-
of information, and the extent to which the Japan Communist Party may
in turn be assisted from abroad.
Being minority groups, cowsmunist parties depend for their success
in large part on the close coordination of inter-party efforts. Until
its formal dissolution in May 1943, the Comintern was the princi pal
agency which provided guidance, direction, and coordination for the
various communist parties throughout the world. The establishment of
the Cominform in September l947 strongly suggests renewed recognition
of the need for centralized control and coordination at the international
level.
The creation of the Cominform as an inter-party control and
coordination agency is believed to have strengthened materially the
international potential of the Japanese comaunists by bringing their
activities once more into line with world-wide trends of communist action.
Considerable evidence indicates that a secret Far Eastern branch of the
Cominform is in operation and that this agency maintains close liaison
with the Janan Communist Party through the Korean comaunists. In
coordinating communist efforts throughout the Fer East, the Cominform's
principal present objective appears to be the encouragement of the
"racial independence" and "democratic racial front" movements aimed
at American "imperialism" in the Orient. These lines of attack have been
vigorously pursued by the Japanese communists since the Cominform was
established, nd have become central themes in recent "struggle tactics".
Closely allied with its international liaison are the ramified
espionage activities of the Japan Communist Party. Several communist
spy networks, or espionage apparats, have been discovered in Japan.
The principal intelligence target is the Occupation Forces, its order
of buttle, the condition of its installations and equipment, and occupa-
tion policies. In aadition, however, these espionage networks secure
information of intelligence value on Japanese conditions, with particular
reference to centers of economic and social unrest, anti-occupation and
pro-Soviet sentiment, industrial production, the food supply, and kindred
subjects of overall strategic significance.
The purpose or this widespread espionage activity is clear. Much
or tnis iniormation, especially that pertaining to the Occupation, is
secured on direction of the Soviet Governent and is channelled to
Soviet intelligence authorities. Other information conceruing production,
the fooa supply, and economic and social conditions is also used by the
Japanese communists themselves. This type of information is runnelled to
the Chosa Bu (Investigation Department) in tne party's central headquarters
for use in determining strategy ana tactics.
The Shimin Teisaku Su (Urban People's Department) is the innocuous-
sounding name of the ofrice in the central headquarters which is believed
to be the party agency for directing and coordinating the work of the
various espionage apparats. There are also known Soviet-controlled
espionage networks in Japan which apparently operate independently of
the Japan Communist Party. These networks are headed by carefully trained
Japanese
SECRET

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-5-
Japanese who have been smuggled into Japan from Soviet territories,
particularly Sakhalin. Several of the operatives have brought with them
special radio equipment and other stock espionage apparatus. What is
particularly significant, however, is the parallel activity of the
communist party apparats and the independent Soviet-controlled networks.
Each espionage systen works independently of and presumably unknowm to
the other, but there have been cases where both systems have received the
same intelligence assignments, identical to minute details.
Through its successful penetration of large numbers of non-communist
organizations, its nation-wide organization with excellent communication
facilities, its tight security system, and the skill and training of
many of its leaders and operatives in intelligence work, the espionage
potential of tne Japan Communist Party is exceedingly high.
It is dirficult to assess the overall potential of the Japan communist
Party in both its overt and covert fields of operation. Communist
capabilities in overt political activity are at present low, and there
is virtually no prospect of the party's coming to power through conventional
political channels. It is important to recognize, however, that the
Japanese communists have neither the intention nor the hope of securing
control of Japan by such conventional methods. Their major efforts are
therefore directed toward building up the party's covert subversive
capability and its international potential for the ultimate purpose of
seizing control of the country, by force and violence if necessary. So
long as Japen remains under occupation the risks involved in such direct
action far outweigh the possibilities or success. The Japanese communists,
however, have learned to think in terms of long-range objectives, and their
present efforts to builu up a formidable subversive potential are pointed
at the critical period which will follow the Occupation when, unaided or
with international communist support, there may be favorable opportunities
to strike.
Dr. Spinks is to be conm.enued for his initiative and painstaking
efforts in preparing this well-written, timely, and important study
concerning the comnunist problen in Japan.
Respectfully yours,
W..Becace.
. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
memorandum, beptember 24,
1948.
Copy to: American mbassy, moscow.
U. S. Special epresentative, Seoul.
Original and neetograph to Department.
800
CNSpinks:CCoville:mhp
SECRET

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 650
dated September 24, 1948 from
the Office of the Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeet,
"The Communist Potential in Japan."
MEMORANDUM
TE COMUNIST POTEITIAL IN JAPAN
Table of Contents
I. Overt Political Potential
1
1. Party Membership
2
2. Communist Sympathizers
4
3. Communist Results in Elections
6
4. Party Leadership
10
5. Popularity of Communism
15
6. Rightist Reaction
19
II. Covert Subversive Potential
20
1.
The Labor Movement
25
2。
Agriculture
30
3。
The Cultural Front
30
4.
Educetion and Governent Service
32
III. International Potential
34
1. International Liaison
34
2. Espionage Activities
37
IV. Conclusions
39
Schemetic Churt - Communist Party Mechanism
for Engineering a Major Labor offensive
27

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
ted soptember 4, 10 
the ofrice of the Politieml
for Japan, Tokyo, o the s
"The Communist Potestial im Japamm]
Soptember 24, 1948.
SECRAT
MEMORANDUM
THE COMMUNIST POTENTIAL IN JAPAN
I. Overt Political Potential.
From the numerical standpoint the Japan Communist Party
1s a small minority group. Notwithstanding its mall size,
this party has successfully displayed considerable influence
in the political, oconomic and social affairs of postwar Japan.
The overt political strength or the party has not been dependeat
upon the numerical strength of its membership or the number of
candidates it has successfully elected to public ofrice, but
stems from the rigorous training and discipline of party members,
the ability of its leaders, and the tireless energy and almost
fanatical devotion displayed toward the Marrian cause by all
ranks. As in almost every country where communim is promoted,
virtually every member of the Japan Communist Party is a full-
time party worker. Communist party workors never seem to tire.
Whatever the group they penetrate, whether labor unions, cultural
organizations or academic bodies, the communist mmbers attend
every meeting. They fight for their objoctives to the bitter
end, often gaining points by virtue of the fact that the opposition
is the first to tire and break down under the struggle. Communist
tactics are in good part premised on the classic Japanese military
concept of saigo no go-fun, namely, it is the last five minutes of
any struggle that counts. The communists thus work as though they
were in an endurance contest, knowing full well that the opposition
will generally break down if the contest is made long enough and
tiring enough. Thus comunist manipulation of many organizations
has frequently succeeded by default of those opposod to the
communists.
Communist success in Japan, despite the mall size of the
party, has also been influencod to no amall dogree by the ability
of communist leaders to take advantage of am erploit Japanese post-
war hardships and privations. In tnis respect the Japan communist
Party has been wholly an opposition party thereby enjoying the
advantage of being without real political responsibilities. Never-
theless, the party's leadership hus had the ability to exploit
every popular grievance, real or runcied. For example, while
agitating among the urban populution over the food shortage, colm.unist
workers in the country-siue have endeavoreu to persuede farmers to
hold
SECRET

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
Enc losure to
Tokyo's No.. 650
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-2-
hold back on their deliveries of rice quotas because the official
price was presumably too low. If there is a flood, earthquake
or other disaster, the communists are quickly on the scene, blaming
the officials for inadequate relief facilities, or, as in the
case of the Fukui earthquake, attempting to take credit for relief
being provided by the Occupation forces. Again, when complaints
are raised over rising taxes, the communists quickly launch an
anti-tax campaign among the people. Almost every labor dispute
finds the communists active in some capacity, and there is hardly
a phase of life in postwar Japan for which the communists have
not formulated a positive program of agitation and propaganda to
exploit every hardship or issue in a manner designed to promote
the communist cause.
1. Party membership. As of March 1948 the Japan Comnunist
Party claimed only 18,088 members throughout Japan. This is the
official figure the party headquarters submitted to the Japanese
Home Ministry, as required of all political parties.
This figure does not, of course, include the Young Communist
League which is not a political party. The League's membership
is estimated at between twenty and thirty thousand members. The
Young Comaunist League is for all practical purposes an integral
part of the Japan Communist Party and is controlled by the party
through the Youth Affairs Department (Seinen Taiseku Bu) in the
Tokyo headquarters.
It is apparent that the rigure 18,088 represents only the
"official" party members, those who have been formally admitted
to the party, who regularly pay dues and hold party membership
cards. In other words, this figure represents only the overt
membership of the party. It does not include the party's secret
or underground membership, the strength of which is unknown.
The so-called "official" figure submitted to the Japanese
authorities is far below various other estimetes of party member-
ship. Party regulations provide that the National Party Congress
shall be attended by one delegate for each three hundred members.
At the National Congress in December 1947 there were 161 official
delegates present, which would indicate a membership of about
48,300. Even this figure is believed to be below the true number
of all persons who are subject to party rules and discipline. Based
on information collected from reliable sources, a conservative
estimate of the true membership of the Japan Communist Party as of
January 1948 is about 61,500. The total membership at the present
time may be even higher, possibly lo0,v00 or more. Party leaders
frequently claim a meabership of around 100,000. As discussed in
detail below, the actual voting strength the conmunists have been
able to comland has been around one million.
This
SECRET

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure. to
Toiyo's No. 650
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-3-
This me ans that in addition to official, secret and under-
ground members, the Japan Communist Party has been able to count
upon a large element outside the party's ranks. This is a large
and important group, many of whom are the so-called shimpa, or
communist sympathizers.
These are individuals who for all practical purposes have
accepted comunist ideology and are ever-ready to support the
communist cause, but who, for various reasons, have never become
"ofricial" members. The importance of this element cannot be
ignored for in virtually every political, economic or social
issue, the shimpa are for the most part arrayed solidly on the
side of the com. unists. Some shimpa may even belong officially
to other political parties, particularly the left wing of the
Social Denocratic Party. Most of them, however, pass themselves
off politically as independents.
The close liaison between the Japan Communist Party and
its shimpa auxiliaries, especially in the Social Democratic Party,
has not always been too evident in Tokyo. In many of the prefectures,
however, the local Social Democratic and Communist Party members
work on a basis of close collaboration. In Aomori Prefecture,
for example, the two parties have endorsed each other's candidates
in local elections.
Notwithstanding frequent membership drives conducted by the
party, it is plain that the Japanese corumunists are not too greatly
concerned over the relatively small size of the party. Even in
countries under complete comaunist control, membership in the party
has always been confined to a small percentage of the total popula-
tion. Like their comrades in other countries, the Japanese com-
munists are not striving for a large unwieldy mass party. They
are endeavoring to build up a compact, well disciplined elite corps
in which each member is a full-time, tireless party worker.
During the war there was a large increase in the membership
of almost all communist parties. This was occasioned in part by
a general swing to the left in the non-Axis nations, but it was
also due to the fact that the communist parties were willing and
eager to admit new, qualified members. Before 1939 the communist
Party in the Soviet Union had less than two million members; by
1947 there were over six million. As parties become mass organi-
zations they naturally lose their elite corps characteristics end
the spirit of close-knit camaraderie which orthodox Marxists have
always prized.
Another important ch racteristic of comi.unist parties has
been the frequent resort to purges - the elimination of various
undesirable
SECRET

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
=4=
undesirable elements which creep into the party; half-hearted
communists, those poorly indoctrinated, "deviationists" of one
sort or another, rightist spies, Trotskyites and other kinds of
counter-revolutionaries. Purges are frequently sarried out through
necessity, but many comaunist theorists contend that a thorough
purging every so often is a good thing on general principles.
It is apparent that the era of expanding party membership
has drawn to a close, and that a period of consolidation and possible
purging is now in order. In May l948, Soviet leaders began caution-
ing local party chieftans against taking in more new members, pointing
out that the time had come to take careful inventory of the unprece-
dentedly large Soviet Communist Party. More recently, communist
leaders in Italy, the Soviet Zone of Germany, Czechoslovakia, Poland,
Hungary, and China have begun considering the necessity to re-examine
party rolls with the view of eliminating weak or undesirable elements.
Although the Japan Communist Party is still making a vigorous
drive for new members, especially among repatriates from Soviet
territories, it may not be long before this trend stops and efforts
are made to sift and screen carefully the present membership.
2. Communist Sympathizers. The communist sympathizer presents
a special problem in any consideration of communist potential. one
point, noted above, is the fairly large but undetermined size of
this element in Japan. Some indication of this size may be gained
by reference to the fact that the Japan Communist Party polled
about one million votes in the national elections in 1946 and 1947.
Although it is recognized that all Japanese who voted for communist
candidates in these elections are not communist sympathizers, it
is apperent that the Japan Conmunist Party has a substantial and
regular following outside its membership ranks.
More important than the matter of physical size, however, is
the character and activity of the shimpa element. conmunist
sympathizers represent a peculiar class in any society. They consti-
tute a vague, amorphous ntity, defying precise classification.
Conumunist sympathizers move in an ideological no-man's land in the
strife waged by the communists against capitalistic society, and
it is seldom possible to determine precisely the loyalties of this
group. The very vegueness of a sympathizer's position, his constant
and vehement claim of not being a communist, provides an effective
cover which is difficult to penetrate.
The communists themselves, however, seldom appear concerned
with the problem of establishing the true identity of sympathizers.
Popular front and other mass strategies adopted by the communists
at the Comintern's Seventh Congress in 1935, which have been
modified
SECRET

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 680
September.24, 1948.
-5
SECRET
modified and developed along various lines since, make such careful
identification a matter of little or no. importance. In other ords,
the communists have learned to take the sympathizer for granted.
Why worry if he is not a true communist on every point in the compli-
cated Marrian credo? Having learned to utilize and exploit all
leftist and so-called "democratic" elements for what they are worth,
the communists see no need to be disturbed over how thoroughly in
sympathy with the communist cause a perticular sympathizer may be.
For example, non-communists argue vehemently among themsblves as
to whether Mr. Henry WALLACE is a comnunist sympathizer. But in
the communist ranks there is never, outwardly at least, a word of
debate heard on this issue.
This uncertainty and coubt which always seems to prevail on
the non-communist side makes the position of the communist sympathizer
so effective end at the same time so dangerous. Because of this
prevailing doubt we have been unnecessarily reluctant to recognize
a communist sympathizer for what he actually is: namely, one who
is for the most part in sympathy with the aims of communism and
either deliberately or unconsciously allows himself to be exploited
by the communists for the realization of their aims. our constant
reluctance or failure to recognize the com unist sympathizer and to
accept him as such meterially enhances the value of this species
to the communists. The more we fail to recognize communist sympathi-
zers, the greater the communist potential becomes, for so long as
the sympathizer carries on his work unchallenged the greater is
his value to the com.unist cause.
As noted, the comaunist sympathizer enjoys a protective cover-
ing which makes his ready identification difficult. In the great
majority of cases it would be impossible to prove with legally
acceptable evidence that a person is a communist sympathizer. This
problem has been further intensiried in Japan as a result of a
tendency to regard with favor any leftist and radical element (and
for a time even the communists) which made pronounced expression of
hostility toward militarism and the old Japanese order. Communism
and sympathy with Marxian thought have often been confused with
liberalism and democracy, providing thereby further protective
covering for the communist sympathizer. There was a time, especially
during the war and immediately after, when it was too commonly
regarded as a heretical manifestation of fascism to question the
motives of communists and their sympathizers.
The problem of the comaunist sympathizer has had many practical
applications during the Occupation of Japan. Shortly before the
scheduled General Strike of February 1, 1947 came to a climax,
efforts were made to prove that the Japanese communists were
primarily behind this major labor offensive. This belief was based
on the fact that communists and com.unist sympathizers in the labor
movement were known to dominate the so-called "Struggle committee"
which was responsible for organizing and carrying out the General
Strike. It was not possible to prove at the time with documented
evidence,
SEORET

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24,1948.
SECRET
-6-
evidence, however, that these men on the Struggle Committee were
communists and communist sympathizers. As a result, plans for the
General Strike progressed to crisis proportions until the Supreme
Commander was finally compelled to intervene personally on tho very
eve of the strike.
The problem of dealing with the communist sympathizer must be
handled witu caution and intelligence in order to avoid unwarranted
witch-hunting. Nevertheless, as experience has shown, careful and
intelligent work on this matter soon enables a good intelligence
staff to recognize the bona fide fellow traveler and communist
sympathizer. What can be done in each case to deal with such individuals
or to counter their activities is primarily an administrative matter
beyond the scope of this paper, but it should be emphasized that in
Japen as elsewhere, so long as the communist sympathizer goes
unchallenged (and too often unrecognized) the potential of communiem
is substantially increased.
3. Communist results in elections. The first real test of the
overt political strength of the Japan Communist Party came with the
general elections for the Lower House of the Diet in April 1946.
This was the first postwar election and also the first national
election since the wartime government-controlled contest in l942.
Scores of new and hastily organized political parties entered the
field along with several hundred independent candidates. For the
first time in history women enjoyed the suffrage. with the political
situation still confused as a result of defeat and occupation there
was a general lack of cleer-cut issues. The three major political
parties had unmistakable prewar ties. Many of the independent
candidates in the l946 election also had prewar political afrilia-
tions. In this respect, the communist candidates most accurately
represented a new element in Japanese politics, although most of
the party's candidates had been active before the war in the under-
ground comnunist movement.
For the 466 seats in the Lower House there were no less than
2,770 candidates. For the nation's 53 election districts, the communists
put up 143 candidates with as many as seven in the Hokkaido First
District and the Nagano Prefectural District. The election was
conaucted on the basis of plural voting, each voter voting for as
many candidates as there were seats to be filled in his district.
There was little voting of the straight party ticket, and in the case
of the dommunist party, this would have been impossible for there
were never enough communist candidates in any one district to fill
the complete slate. Voters, therefore, divided their choices among
the candidates or two or more parties, and there was frecuently a
tendency to vote for women canuidates, regardless of their party
affiliation.
Of the 143 communist candidates only five were elected: Miss
KiRASAWA Toshiko (who in 194l was implicated in the Sorge espionage
case) from the Hokkaido First District; Mr. NOSAKA Sanzo (formerly
member
SECRET

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-7-
member of the Central Executive Committee of the Comintern) from
the Tokyo First District; Mr. TOKUDA Kyuichi (Secretary-General
of the party) from the Tokyo Second District; Mr. SHIGA Yoshio
from the Osaka First District; and Mr. TAKAKURA Teru from the Nagano
Prefectural District. Through the disqualification of a Liberal
Party candidate in Kanagawa Prefecture, Mr. NAKANISHI Inosuke, the
first runner-up in the district, was given the seat, giving the
communists a total of six representatives in the Lower House.
Communist candidates polled 3.85 percent of the total votes
cast in the April l946 election, but barely received one percent
of the seats in the Lower House. Mr. Nosaka received 80,897 votes,
the highest polled by any communist candidate. It is significant
that all the successful communist candidates, with the exception
of Miss Karasawa, are big names in the party and men with national
reputations. To this day the communist party has lacked sufficient
big names to compete with greater success in each election district.
In many districts the communist candidates were obscure figures,
hardly known outside their small com.unist circles. This deficiency
in party leadership, at least from the quantitative standpoint, will
be discussed further in the following section.
In the elections for the Lower House in April 1947, results
achieved by the communists varied but slightly from the preceding
year. The system of plural voting was changed and election districts
were made smaller. r. Nosaka and Mr. Tokuda were re-elected by
comfortable margins, but ir. Shiga, Mr. Takakura and Mr. Nakanishi
were defeated. Mr. Shiga's defeat was a hsavy blow to the party,
not only because of the political loss in the populous Osaka district,
but also because Mr. Shiga is one of the top leaders of the party,
ranking next to Mr. Nosaka and Lr. Tokuda. On the other hand, the
communists elected Mr. HAYASHI Hyakuro from Nagano Prefecture and
Mr. IMURA Sakae from Shimane Prefecture, giving the communists a
total of four seats in the Lower House. Communist party candidates
polled only 3.60 percent of the total vote in 1947 as compared with
3.85 percent in 1946, and secured less than one percent of the seats
of the Lower House.
In May 1947 another national election was held for the newly-
created House of Councillors, the upper chamber of the National
Diet, which has taken the place of the former House of Peers under
the new Constitution. The House of Councillors is composed of two
categories of members: those elected on a nstionwide basis and
those elected on & prefectural basis. Members elected on a national
basis are of two types, those serving for six- and those serving for
three-year terms.
Communist results in the elections for the House of councillors
roughly paralleled the situation experienced in the contest for the
seats
SECRET

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-8
seats of the House of Representetives. No communist candidates
were elected on the national basis for the six-year term; three
candidates were elected for three-year terms; Mr. NAkANo Shigeharu,
Mr. NAKANISHI Ko (before the war head of a Soviet-directed espionage
ring in China), and Mr. HOSOKAWA Karoku; and one communist was elected
on a prefectural basis, Mr. ITAno Katsuji of Okayama Prefecture. The
four successful communist candidates won only l.6 percent of the
250 seats composing the House of Councillors. The communist vote
in the elections for the House of Councillors amounted to only 3.08
percent of the total votes received by all candidates.
The Japan Communist Party put up candidates in many of the local
elections held in 1947: gubernatorial, mayoralty and for the prefectural
assemblies. In these local contests, only three communist candidates
were elected: one each for the Tokyo, Nagano and Mie prefectural
assemblies.
At best on a national basis, communist candidates for public
office have been able to enlist the support of less than four percent
of the electorate. But it is significant that a political party
which claimed only about 16,000 "official" members at the time of
the 1947 elections should succeed in electing candidates to the
national legislature. This clearly indicates the degree to which
this numerically small group has been able to draw political support
from outside the communist fold. The party profits considerably by
its small membership in the Diet, although it is hardly sufficient
to give the party much bargaining power. Membership in the Diet
does provide, however, an effective sounding board for party propa-
ganda.
The Japan Commaunist Party has made vigorous political
campaigns, especially for the House of Representatives, but member-
ship in the Diet is not the political channel on which the communists
place primary emphasis. Fer more party energy and activity are
expended to promote the conununist cause through the labor movement,
agrarian agitation, and ramified activities on the left-wing cultural
rront. There is no case where a communist party has come to power
by acquiring a majority in a parliamentary body. Such bourgeois
technique is in fact condemmed by most communists. Full participation
in parliamentary politics and rubbing shoulders on equal terms with
other porties is certain, in orthodox communist thinking, to
contaminate the party, undermining the revolutionery Marxist spirit
which at all costs must remain the guiding principle of communist
thought and action.
on the basis of tie strength the Japanese comaunists have thus
far demonstrated in t is conventional field of political activity,
the possibility of using the Diet as a means to lead the masses
through
SECRET

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1.948.
SECRET
-9-
through a peaceful revolution, that is, for the communists to eloct
enough members to the Diet to form a communist government, seems
very remote. The real threat of communism in Japan, as elsewhere,
lies less in the conventional pclitical strength the party can accrue
by legitimately exploiting postwar hardships in election campaigns,
than in the traditional communist technique of diverting depressed
and demoralized public sentiment into labor strife and other forms of
unrest with the in. ention of producing violence and disorders. Out
of the confusion which would ensue, the Japanese conmunists hope to
seize the government by force as the communists did in Russia and
as they have done in all countries where they have come to power.
Considerable argument has taken place within the ranks of the
postwar Ja,in Communist Party over the problem of utilizing consti-
tutional parliamentary machinery. The problem centers mainly around
whether Japan is now ready for the classic "socialist revolution",
or whether the country must first proceed through the so-called
"bourgeois democratic revolution". In the rough-and-tumble of party
argument on this question, the issue is frequently resolved into
more simple terms: the revolution of violence as opposed to the
peaceful revolution. Mr. Tokuda Kyuichi and the more orthodox Marxists
in the party stress the revolution of violence, namely, that Japan is
now ready for the socialist revolution which will be a fundamental
attack on the entire capitalistic system, breaking it down completely,
with violence if necessary, and substituting a socialist, or communist,
structure. More realistic and historical-minded Japanese communists
contend that the true course to the ultimate socialist revolution
must be by means of a preliminary bourgeois democratic revolution.
They argue that Japan has not yet passed through the bourgeois democratic
revolution, that in the nineteenth century the country moved in one
jump from feudalism to monopoly capitalism, and that before monopoly
capitalism can be broken there must be a bourgeois democratic revolution.
Once that is accomplished, the time will be ripe for the final socialist
revolution.
Advocetes of the bourgeois democratic revolution believe that
the transition to the socialist revolution will be a simple matter
not necessarily requiring a violent upheaval; hence, the slogen
"peaceful revolution". The bourgeois democratic revolution is to be
carried out mainly through the Diet.
Mr. KAIYAA Shigeo has been the exponent of the preliminary
bourgeois democratic revolution by utilizing the Diet. In 1947-48
he launched a vigorous editorial campaign on behalf of his arguments
in the pages of Zenei (Vanguard, the communist monthly) and Akahata
(Red Flag, the communist daily). The attack was directed mainly at
Mr. Tokuda's socialist revolution by violence and his strong dislike
for
SECRET

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-10-
for mixing in bourgeois parliamentary activity, notwithstanding tho
fact that he himself has been twice elected to the Diet. Mr. shiga
Yoshio, Mr. Tokuda's former cell mate in prison, carried the counter-
attack for the orthodox Marrists. The argument became so heated,
threatening to develop a serious split in the party, that the control
ommittee was finally compelled to take action against Mr. Kamiyama
who was shorn o: his important posts and completely silenced.
Mr. Nosaka Sanzo, frequently labelled an advocate of peaceful
revolution, actually occupies a place mid-way between the views of
Messrs. Tckuda and Kamiyama. Mr. Nosaka advocates avoiding any
steps which will lead to violence, particularly during the Occupation,
by a skillful policy of "consummating the bourgeois democratic
revolution, while performing transitory duties in preparation for a
socialist revolution." The "Nosaka Line" thus represents a dualiam,
the simultaneous conduct of the socialist and the bourgeois democratic
revolutions.
4. Party leadership. Compared with communist leadership in
most other countries, the Japen Communist Party has not enjoyed
leaders of particularly high caliber. Only two Japanese communists
have thus far won international reputations: the late Mr. KATAYAMA
Sen and lir. Nosaka Sanzo, both of whom served as members of the
Comintern's Central Executive Committee in Moscow. It is significant,
however, that both Mr. Katayama and Mr. Nosaka won world-wide fame
as communists outside Japan. The late Mr. Katayama's international
reputation is based on his radical career in the United States during
the first World War and his long period of service with the Comintern
from the early 1920's until his death in Moscow in 1933. He is also
known widely ror his book, The Labor Movement in Japan (Chicago, 1919),
the first account in English of the early Japanese socialist and labor
movement. Mr. Nosaka, under the cover name OKAno Susumu, became well
known in international comuaunist circles from 1932 to 1940 when he
worked in Russia with the Comintern, succeeding Mr. Katayama as
Japanese member of the Centrel Executive Committee in 1933. From
1940 until his return to Japan in early 1946, Mr. Nosaka operated
first in Manchuria and later in North China with the Comaunist Eighth
Route Army and soon became well known during the war in the United
States for his work among Jepanese prisoners of war and as head of the
Peoples' Emancipation League.
Except for Mr. Nosaka's wife, Mrs. NoSA Ryu, no communist
leader in Japan today has had such long and firsthand experience in
the international communist movement. Mrs. Nosaka worked in Moscow
from 1952 until her repatriation in January, 1947.
One explanation for the failure of the Japan Communist party
to develop more outstanding and capable leaders is the fact that the
party was, until the end of the war, always a small, restricted,
underground organization, its activities seriously curtailed by
arrests
SECRET

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
Bnelosure to
Tokyo's No. 6o
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-11-
arrests and constant police surveillance of the most severe kind.
Except for the brief liberal interlude in Japanese politics in the
mid-l92o's, the communist movement in Japan was also competing
with a strong nationalism, many aspects of which in the 1930's came
to acquire a highly competitive form of national-socialism. It
was not uncommon, therefore, for many communists to desert the
communist ranks for the more attractive and less precarious camp
of national-socialism.
Another fundamental weakness in Japanese communiam which both
Japanese and Soviet Marxian comentators have long recognized is
Japan's own peculiar historical development. According to the
orthodox interpretation, Japan jumped from medieval feudalism to
advanced monopoly capitalism without passing through the long
intervening period of bourgeois development which characterized the
West.
Partly due to this peculiar historical development and partly
the result of fundamental traditionalism in political, economic,
social and religious thought, the growth of Marxian ideology was
forced to compete with powerful native concepts and attitudes. Too
often communists in Japan have proved to be Japanese first and
communists afterwards. At the same time, Japanese intellectual
development in so far as it was concerned with the newer historical,
economic,and scientific concepts of the west always remained somewhat
retarded. Intellectually, therefore, the average Japanese communist
did not come too well equipped to absorb and master the complicated
dialectics of Marxian theology. Because of strong social and other
pressures and prejudices against communism in Japan, many converts
to the movement were often men of little education and mental
capacity. For a brief period in the l920's, many of the intelligentsia
turned to communism, but often as faddists, while in the present
postwar period the same phenomenon, but on an even greater scale,
is noted.
This does not mean that the Japan Communist Party has lacked
leaders of conviction, for many of then have demonstrated heroic
devotion to the cause. But it is evident that from the purely
intellectual standpoint, from the standpoint of developing highly-
trained communist thinkers, the Japanese communist movement has been
far below western standards. In fact, Japanese communists were
so confused and amateurish in their thinking in the 1920's and 1930's
that it was necessary for the Soviets, through the Comintern, to
provide them with a number of so-called "theses". These were not
directives of a strictly tactical nature, but fundamental expositions
of the application of Marxian doctrine to Japan, the issuance of
which was necessitated by the utter failure of the Japanese conununists
to grasp the prevailing principles of the class struggle as conceived
by Marx, modified by Lenin and perfected by Stalin.
Another
SECRET

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
Bnclosure to
Tókyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-12-
Another handicap to the development of top caliber loader-
ship has been the factional conflicts and feuds which have raged
within communist ranke from the early Fukumoto-Yamakawa oleavage
of the l920's (which the Comintern was finally compelled to sottle)
to the present Tokuda-Nosaka schism, and many other minor splits
and fissures.
Capable, well-trained leaders are far more important in
minority parties, as communist parties always are, than in parties
which always enjoy a large mass support and can gain their ends
almost by weight of numbers. The question of leadership is there-
fore vital in any consideration of the Japan Communist Party's
potential.
The Soviets have long recognized the intalectual limitations
of the Japanese communists. As the fountain-head of modern Marxist
thought and as defenders of the communist faith, the Russians have
long insisted that only Moscow-trained communists are really
qualified for top flight leadership. Accordingly, no communist
without a Moscow education is regarded with favor for an important
assignment. To provide for this special training, the soviets
established early in the l92o's two important seats of communist
learning, the Lenin University and the Communist University for Far
Eastern Workers, both in Moscow. The latter, called the KYTp and
known in Japan as the Kutope, was originally founded by Stalin as
an institute for training minority elements within the soviet Union.
Since many of these minority groups were Asiatics and because of
growing interest in spreading communism in the Far East at this time
when reaction and counter-revolution were sweeping Western Europe,
the institute was revised by Stalin so as to train not only leaders
for Asiatic minorities within the Soviet Union but Asiatics generally.
Thus a kina of color demarcation early entered into the Soviet program
for training non-Russian communist leaders. European, American and
other "white" students were sent to the Lenin University, while
Asiatic and other "colored" students, including American Negroes,
were sent to the KYTP.
In the 1920's the Soviets were particularly anxious to enroll
Japanese students at the Kutope to prepare qualified leaders for the
young communist movement in Japan. The undersigned officer has
discussed this matter with a Japanese graduate of the Kutope who was
later an undercover agent of the Comintern, but renounced communism
in 1935 and thereafter worked as an agent of Japanese Army counter-
intelligence.
According to this Kutope graduate, it was exceedingly difficult
in the 1920's and 1930's for the Japan Communist Party to find suitably
intelligent candidates for the Kutope who were willing to take the
risks involved in secret travel outside Japan. Parenthetically, it
may be noted that comu..unists in the Japan Seamen's Union were the
principal agency by which students were smuggled out of Japan dis-
guised as seanen. once they reached Shanghai or Vladivostok, the
Soviets took over. In all, during the entire prewar period, it is
doubted
SECRST

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 650
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-13-
doubted if more than fifty Japanese students ever enrolled at the
Kutope. of this number, a few failed to pass the stiff two-year
course, others were epelled for developing dangerous "deviationist"
viewpoints. of the actual graduates, most were arrested by the
Japanese police soon after their return to Japan, while a few are
still believed to be in Moscow, serving as instructors in the rutope
or working at other assignments mainly connected with the writing
and printing of material in Japanese. The Soviets suspected that some
of the Korean Kutope students were agents of Japanese counter-
intelligence and that this accounted for the high percentage of Kutope
graduates who were lost by arrests in Japen. At first the Koreans
were segregated, but early in the l930's no more Koreans were enrolled
in the Kutope.
According to this same source, Japanese students at the Kutope
did not make a favorable impression on the Russians end did much to
strengthen their belief in the political immaturity of Japanese
communist leadership. The Koreans, however, were regarded as
intellectually the most immature and as unreliable generally. Two
Japanese graduates of the Kutope who are prominent in communist work
today are Mr. KONNO Yojiro and Mr. HATTORI Bakusei, both of whom
significantly are frequently rumored to be serving in a liaison
capacity with the present Cominform. Although Mr. Nosaka Sanzo and
his wife spent years in Moscow, only Mrs. Nosaka attended the kutope.
Notwithstanding the efforts of the Kutope, the Japan Communist
Party has been deficient in well-trained leaders by Soviet standards.
In the early period of the party's activity in the l92o's, deficiencies
in Japanese leadership were to some extent overcome by the close
liaison maintained between the Japan Communist Party and the Far
Eastern Bu eau of the Comintern at Shanghai. Early in the 1930's
however, the Chinese authorities forced the Fur Eastern Bureau to
suspend operations. Thereafter, the Soviets attempted to maintain
liaison with the Japen Communist Party through the Vladivistok office
of the International Seamen's Union, but with only limited success.
It should be noted that throughout this period there is no evidence
that the Soviet Embassy in Japan attempted to play a direct role in
guiding and directing the activities of the Japan Communist party.
During and before the war the Soviet mbassy did, however, engage
in espionage activities, the networks of which often included
Japanese communists. But here again, the famous Soviet espionage
network or Dr. Richard SORGE operated in Japan completely independent
of the Soviet Embassy.
Kutope graduates who returned to Japan in the late 193o's
were intended to provide the Japanese comnunists with the guidance
and direction the party's poor leadership lacked, and thereby overcome
the
SECRET

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 650
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-14
the loss of the Comintern's Shanghai Far Eastern Bureau and the
unsatisfactory liaison arrangements attempted at Vladivostok. By
this time, however, Japanese counter-intelligence forces, the Kempei-
Tai (Military Police) and the Tokko Ka (Special Higher Police) were
pursuing an intensive drive against underground communist activities,
and all Kutope graduates who returned to Japan were promptly placed
under arrest.
The failure of Kutope graduates to re-establish themselves in
Japan nd the smashing of the Sorge Espionage Ring in 194l-42
were serious blows to Soviet subversive activities in Japan. There-
after, until the end of the war, only routine espionage was pursued
by the Soviet Embassy in Tokyo and no further known attempts were
made to desl with what was left of the communist underground. In
this period it appears that Soviet activity in the Far East was
shifted mainly to China and interest in Japan was centered primarily
on the work of Mr. Nosaka Sanzo at Yenan.
Since the end of the wer, the Soviets have been compelled to
recognize more fully than ever before the lack of first-rate leader-
ship among the Japanese communists. This handicap comes at a particu-
larly critical time, for the Japan Communist Party, as an overt, legal
organization, is now operating on a scale which was never possible
heretofore. Accordingly, it is believed that new measures are being
taken to improve the party's leadership.
The most significant of these new measures is the effort to
trein and develop an entirely new corps of party leadership. To
what extent the Kutope is still functioning is not known, although
it is significant that there is today within the covert framework
of the Japan Communist Party a kind of secret "apparat" known as
the "Kutope Fraction" which will be discussed in detail below.
Evidence which hes accumulated from the interrogation of large
numbers of Japanese repatriates from Soviet areas indicates that not
only are virtually all Japanese internees receiving some kind of
communist indoctrination, but that certain categories of internees
are receiving special training to qualify them as undercover agents
and as future party leaders. It is believed, therefore, that from
the large numbers of prisoners of war and civilian internees who have
been and are still in Soviet Russia, highly selected personnel are
being detained for such training purposes, and that it is the soviet
intention to develop a new corps of Japanese communist leadership
trained in the most advanced Soviet techniques. Whether this new
corps of leadership will be slowly infiltrated into Japen during
the prolonged repatriation program, or whether such leaders will
enter Japan secretly or openly after the Occupation withdraws is not
known. Nevertheless, from the Soviet point of view, the ultimate
potential of the Japan Communist Party is being materially increased
by this training of more capable and acceptable leaders.
The
SECRET

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.97)
Enolosure to
Tokyo' No. 650
Soptember 24, 1948.
SECRET
-15-
The training of an entire now body of leadership for the
Japan Communist Party is, of course, a long-range progrm. por
present requirements at least two other interim measures are
believed to be in foroe. One is the operation within the head-
quarters of the Japan Communist Party of an "apparat" known as
the Soviet Fraction, the sole purpose of which is to attempt to
guide communist policies along lines best suited to soviet interests
and objectives. The other measure is the establimhment of liaison
between the Japan Communist Party and the Far Eastern Branch of the
Cominform. The question of the Soviet Fraction and liaison with
the Far Eastern Cominform are discussed in detail in the following
section.
In conclusion it may be said that the potential of the Japan
Communist Party has been held down to a considerable degree by the
lack of capable, well-truined leaders, and that the Soviets have
from the very beginning of communist activity in Japan undertaken
various measures to improve party leadership.
5. Popularity of communism. In view of the overall control
of Japan by the Occupation, the extent to which the Japanese
communists can arouse popular support for tneir cause has a diroct
bearing on their capabilities for political action. so long as
the Occupation remains in Japan, the ring is held, as it were, for
all political parties. To gain political power, a party must work
through constitutional channels and, by the simple democratic
process of elections and representation, win enough seats in the
National Diet to form a cabinet. So long as the Occupation remains
to onforce this procodure, it is most unlikely that the Japan
Communist Party or any political perty or group will attempt to gain
power by a coup d'etat, revolution or any other unconstitutional
means.
This situation is, of course, a serious handicap to the
minority Japan Communist Party which, like all conmunist parties,
has been nurtured on the tradition of illegal activity, violence,
and seizing power by force. Thus so long as the political ring
1s held, the Japun Communist Party must make a bid for wide popular
support if it expects to increase its political strength through the
existing conventional, constitutional channels.
as noted, communist candidates in eacn of the national
elections in 1946 and 1947 received less than four percent of the
total vote. Nevertheless, these percentages in each election
amounted to approximately one million votes. In view of traditional
Japanese conserv tivian. and widespread hostility to conmunisu, it
must be reccenized that tho Japanese Connunists have, in these two
elections ut ieast, won a fair reasure of popular support.
A nuater
D.CRST

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-16-
A number of factors are believed to have been responsible for
this comparatively large following the communists were able to enlist.
The most obvious explanation was the fact that the communists had the
most specific and concrete program of any political party. In the
case of the other parties, it was difficult for voters to make an
intelligent choice except on the basis of the personalities of
candidates. All other major party platforms were vague and colorless.
To some degree, communist success can also be attributed to
psychological reactions to defeat and occupation, the general swinging
of the pendulum from the extrame right to the extreme left. This was
in turn perhaps combined with the novelty of the fact that for the
first time in Japanese history the communist party was a legal
organization, openly running candidates in a national election. The
Japanese seem habitually attracted to novelties, even of a political
variety, despite their general conservativism and high regard for
tradition.
The communists lost no opportunity to exploit the psychological
reaction of the Japanese to defeat. In such a state of mind, the
Japanese, like anyone else, have a tendency to seek for scapegoats,
and the comaunists with their hue and cry about the militarists,
the zaibatsu and even the Emperor as being responsible for the plight
of the nation, were quick to capitalize on this scapegoat sentiment.
It was also possible, in this connection, for the communists to
make the most of the hardships and privations which the prolonged
war, aerial destruction, and final foreign occupation entailed. Post-
war Japan with its economic problems has offered a fertile field
for communism.
It is also evident that the Japanese conmunists have enjoyed
riding on the crest of the popular front wave which has only
recently begun to recede. Through the popular front strategy
communism has been able to conceal its more terrifying aspects and
has frequently succeeded in passing under the cloak of true democracy.
The Japunese comaunists were fully prepared to clothe themselves in
the latest democratic raiment.
Finally, it must be recognized that, in the eyes of many Japanese,
the Japan Communist Party appeared to have the blessing of the
Occupation. It has been difficult for many Japanese to understand
why the Occupation promptly ordered the release of political prisoners
soon after the surrender. To the Japanese mind, this action suggested
that the Occupation must be in sympathy with the views of the
political prisoners if it desired their release. In the case of some
of the communist prisoners, such as Mr. HAk ADA Satomi and Mr. MIYAMOTO
Kenji, their release from prison was all the more puzzling for they
had been imprisoned only incidentally for comaunist activity but
primarily for the murder in 1933 of a fellow communist, OBATA Tatsuo.
Other comaunists who were released had been imprisoned for various
acts of violence, including an attempted bank robbery.
The
SECRET

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No.630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-17-
The release of the communists, including murderers and felons,
has disturbed many Japanese because it was not executed on the basis
of anything like an amnesty, that is, in consideration of good behavior
and sufficient punishment having been received to exptate the original
crimes, for to Japanese thinking communist activity was at the time of
sentence illegal and thereby punishable. Instead, tho release of
political prisoners was premised on the assumption that they had
committed no crime in the first instance and were thmrefore wrongfully
imprisoned.
This initial impression the Japanese receivod, that the Occupation
was in sympathy with the communists, was further strengthened by the
marked leftist tninking and activity of some of the Occupation person-
nel with whom Japanese came into contact.
The combination of these circumstances had a favorable bearing
on the new position of the postwar Japan Communist Party, and
unquestionably accounts in part for the support the communists were
able to receive from large numbers of non-communist Japanese.
To a considerable extent these favorable factors no longer
exist and the overt political potential of the Japan Communist party
has probably declined somewhat. For one thing, the lines between the
major political parties have now becone more distinctly drawn and
the policies and aims of these parties are considerably more clarified
than heretofore. The psychological reactions to defeat and occupation
have begun to subside to the disadvantage of the communists. The
ideological pendulum reached the extreme left and is now swinging
back toward center. In recent months there has been noted a growing
tendency on the part of the Japanese to express criticism of the
communists, and there has been an unmistakable revival of nationalistic
and rightist sentiment and activity, much of which is directed squarely
at the communists. Moreover, the novelty of postwar Japenese communism
has worn off and there are many leftist and liberal Japanese who have
become disillusioned with comaunist excesses, particularly in the labor
movement. clear evidence of this reaction to red extremism is the
formation of anti-communist democratic groups within some of the
labor unions which have heretofore been under almost exclusive communist
iniluence or control. Improvement in economic recovery and rehabilitation
has also weakened the communist position.
Furthermore, the orolonged delay in repatriation of Japanese
from Soviet areas has aroused the Japanese public against the communists,
while tales told by repatriates of their treatment in Soviet Russia
and of conditions there have cost the Japanese communist the loss of
considerable prestige and popul rity among the people.
The initial Japanese belief that the Occupation was partial to
the Japanese comaunists has also declined. The gradual weeding out
of leftists and fellow travelers among Occupation personnel has had
some
SECRET

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 650
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-18-
some effect in changing this attitude, but far more important has
been the increasingly firm stand being taken by the United states
Government toward comnunists and communist activity at home, and
a series of acts on the part of the Supreme Comaander in regard to
matters affecting the Occupation, such as the ban on the General
Strike scheduled for February 1, 1947, the prompt and effective
steps taken with regard to the Korean riots in Osaka-kobe in April
1948, and the Supreme Commander's letter to Prime Minister ASHIDA
Hitoshi of July 22, 1948 concerning revision of the National public
Service Law to prohibit government workers from striking. The
Japanese public no longer has any doubt that the United States is
opposed to the spread of communism anywhere, although some Japanese
are still confused because the Occupation has not taken even stronger
measures against the communists here.
Finally, important international developments, particularly
Soviet-American tension, have further weakened the position of the
Japanese communists from the standpoint of enlisting popular support.
Today large sections of the Japanese public (including the communists)
are convinced that a Soviet-American war is inevitable. Some rightist
elements unquestionably hope that such a conflict will break out in
the belief that the United States will thereby be compelled to permit
Japan's military revival. Although ex-Kamikaze pilots have enthusiasti-
cally volunteered to fly for the United States against the Soviets,
the more thinking and moderate Japanese view the prospect of a soviet-
American war with dread. They not only fear, of course, that Japan
will again become a battlefield, but that if American forces are
compelled to evacuate Japan, the country will surely fall ready prey
to the Soviets who will place the Japan Communist Party in power.
Another terrifying prospect confronting many conservative Japanese
is the fear that Japan's present degree of recovery will be insufficient
to ward off a depression when the present period of inflation ends.
If such a depression comes after the Occupation withdraws, it is feared
that there may be serious disorders which the communists will exploit
and that a situation might come ahout where the Soviets would intervene
in Japanese affairs and put the communists in power.
Thus more and more Japanese ure beginning to regard the Japan
Communist Party as a Soviet Fifth Column, standing ready to strike
the moment a favorable opportunity is presented. Comaunist coups
in central and southeastern Europe clearly show the pattern of such
tactics and the Japanese have not been indifferent to these graphic
object lessons. Moreover, continued communist successes in China,
the sovietization of North Korea, and marked communist activity in
Malaya and other areas of Asia cast the shadow or communist encircle-
ment ovr the Japanese.
As these developments arouse the Japanese and engender aggressive
anti-comaunist activity on the part of the more conservative and
rightist elements, the Japan Communist Party finds itself being pre-
sented more and more in the li ht of a menace which no amount of its
"democratic"
SECRET

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 680
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-19-
"democratic" propaganda can successfully overcome. Barring a serious
depression or economic collapse, the overt political potential of
the Japanese communists appears to have declined from the standpoint
of enlisting popular support from non-communist Japanese.
6. Rightist reaction. When an obscure member of an anti-
communist organization attempted to assassinate Lr. Tokuda Kyuichi
on July 19, 1948, Japanese attention was forcibly focused on the
problem presented by extreme rightists resorting to terrorism. Until
recently the extreme right has been cautious in its activities,
although within the past year numerous small rightist and nationalistic
groups have been organized. A number of these groups are primarily
anti-comaunist in character or use anti-communism as a focal point
for their activities.
Until about a year ago the Japanese communists faced no really
forceful opposition. Today, however, the Japan Communist party is
beginning to contend with outspoken, ggressive anti-communist groups
in labor unions, cultural organizetions, and elsewhere.
The appearance of an anti-communist front unfortunately tends
to divide the political field into two extremes--the extreme right
and the extreme left. Too often middle-of-the-road democracy has
proved ineffective in combetting either comu.unism or fascism, and as
the conflict between the two extremes heightens, democracy is
imperiled, for whichever of the two extremes wins, democracy loses.
Thus the communist potentil in postwar Japan is now being
challenged by a new and highiy undesirable opponent. This ertreme
left-right conrlict is likely to increase, even under the occupation,
and may reach serious proportions if the occupation withdraws. the
Japanese conmunists, today and in the foreseeable future, would be
unable to resist an organized rightist offensive without outside
support. The rightist reaction, if sufficiently aggressive, would
therefore be tantamount to an invitation for Soviet intervention in
Japan.
So far, however, the rightist camp is not well organized.
Since the surrender, rightist sentiment has been under a cloud and
the rightists have been forced to remain cautious and inconspicuous.
But communist excesses have given them an opportunity to become
more assertive and embolded in their activities--even to the extent
of attempted assassination. Thus a kind of vicicus circle is likely
to set in where the activitias of the communists and the extreme
rightists each provide provocative challenges to more drastic action
by the other.
II. Covert
SECRET

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-20-
II. Covert Subversive Potential
There is something fundamentally conspiratorial about
communisn and communist parties. As illegal, underground movements,
such a character is to be expected, but even when communist parties
gain recognized legal status, as in postwar Japan, they retain this
basically subversive and conspiratorial nature.
Communism and comaunists are also characterized by a kind of
perverted combativeness. The opposition is always referred to as
the "enemy", political action or campaigning of any kind is invariably
a "struggle" or "strife".
It has been suggested by some students of communism that these
characteristics are indicative of a paranojac mentality and that
communism is in effect a manifestation of mass paranoia.
The Japanese communists have proved no exception. The
mentality cf their leaders and the character of their organization
and activities are clearly indicative of the paranolae definition.
There is unquestionably a touch of the paranoic in many Japanese
which may go far to explain their hypersensitivity, their almost
passionate reverence of past glories, their fanatical nationalism,
their frequent belief in divine missions, and their at times cruel
and reckless disregard of life, including their own.
The organizer of secret patriotic societies, the participants
in blood brotherhoods (ketsumeidan) organized for the purpose of
terrorism and assassinetion, the Kamikaze pilot and the leader of a
banzai cherge are all individuals whose mentalities are exceptionally
well suited for the secret, subversive, terroristic, and conspiratorial
activities of communism. If communism could in some way divorce itself
from the Soviet Union which virtually all Japanese fear and hate, it
would unquestionably prove a refuge for many of the more paranoiac
Japanese elerents who with the collapse of militarisn and nationelism
now find themselves without a congenial milieu.
The conspiratorial and combative cheracter or communism has
found full expression in the activities of the Japanese communists.
The Japanese perhaps are attracted to and grasp these qualities
far better than they do the more obtuse aspects of comaunist theories
and precepts.
The Japan Communist Party contains the entire gamut of
"apparats" peculiar to communist undercover organization. In communist
parlance an "apparat" is a political apparatus or agency for carrying
out secret activity. Apparats are generally of two kinds: those
which function purallel with the party's overt, legal activity,
thereby providing secret support, and those which are organized for
the purpose of carrying on all manner of activity if the party is
driven
SCRET

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's 650
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-21-
driven underground. Some apparats, of course, serve both
purposes at the same time.
The secret fractions in labor unions and other organizations
are in effect good examples of the "parallel apparat" in operation.
A communist fraction consists of a few, generally seoret, party
members who successfully penetrate an organization's executive and
policy-forming positions. Operating as a bloc, the members of the
fraction seek to divert the organization's policies and activities
along lines best suited to communist interests. The fraction is
therefore strictly a top-level activity, taking its orders directly
from party headquarters and having no vertical lines of communication
or command with overt communivt cells and factions among the rank
and file in the organization.
There is evidence that fractions exist within the organization
of the Japan Communist Party itself as distinguished from the
overt cliques and groups such as the Nosaka Faction and the Tokuda
Faction. Some of these fractions appear to serve the same purpose
as fractions in labor organizations and other non-communist groups.
They thus constitute a kind of top secret inner circle operating
within the secret confines of the party headquarters. Little is
known of these fractions, but a so-called Soviet Fraction is believed
to exist within the party's high command, the purpose of which is
to guide covertly party policy and activity along lines laid down
by the Soviets. The necessity for such work to be implemented by
a secret fraction arises from the fact that powerful elements in
the party, believed to center around Mr. Tokuda Kyuichi, are opposed
to too much direct Soviet control or guidance and desire to pursue
a more independent Japanese course.
The so-called Kutope Fraction is believed to be a newly-created
apparat within the party's high command for the purpose of handling
all matters concerning the Far Eastern Cominform. This fraction is
apparently composed of graduates of the Moscow KYTP. Similarly,
there are reports of the existence of a Cominform Fraction.
Until the Sixth Party Congress in December 1947, all Korean
affairs were handled by an overt Korean Affairs Department, headed
by Mr. KIN Ten Kai, which functioned under the Central Committee.
At the party congress, however, the Korean Department was abolished
and all Korean affairs were placed in charge of a covert Korean
Fraction.
It is apparent from the evidence available that the Japanese
communists use the term "fraction" (furaku) in a rather broad or
loose manner. Strictly speaking. the com unist fractions in the
labor unions and similar organizations are the only true fractions
in the generally accepted meaning of the term. Most of the so-called
fractions
SECRET

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 680
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-22-
fractions within the party itself are more strictly a different
kind of apparat, for they are primarily secret agencies charged
with handling secret party activities. with the possible oxception
of the Soviet Fraction, they are not for the pupose of subverting
or guiding the party along any particular line concerning which
there is an opposition within the party itself.
Within the Japen Communist Party there are various other kinds
of apparats, concerned with espionage operations against the
Occupation forces, rumor-mongering, black propaganda, and the
raising of funds by blackmarketing, smuggling and other illegal
transactions. In the early 1930's the so-called "Lynch Group"
was in fact a secret terrorist apparat for the purpose of liquidating
party traitors, police informers or doctrinal "deviationists". It
was this group which murdered Obata Tatsuo in l933. Another terrorist
apparat attempted to rob a bank to secure funds for underground
activity.
Strange to say, the term "apparat" itself has not been adopted
into Japanese communist parlance. Such agencies are designated
as fractions, blocs (buraku), or "groups" for which the words
gurupu, dan and tai are used.
Some of the Japanese comnunist apparats have a military
character with names taken directly from the Japanese Army. For
example, the Totsugeki-Tai (Assault Corps) is a semi-military,
covert force designed to spearhead civil disturbances during strikes
or labor offensives and to commit acts of terroriam and sabotage.
The various Kodo-Tai (Action Corps) are somewhat more overt bodies,
like the Nazi storm troopers. Their function is that of the "goon
squad", to intimidate employers and workers who refuse to strike
and to take care of the "reactionary opposition" in labor unions.
Elements from among the Seinen Kodo-Tai (Youth Action Corps) also
serve as a kind of elite guard for the personal protection of party
dignitaries. A newly-organized Boei-Tai (Defence Corps) is designed
to protect party headquarters and party personnel and activities
during ofrensives or other forms or "strife".
Like communists everywhere, the Japan Communist Party is highly
security conscious. Central Committee and almost all other party
meetings are held in secret. Important orders, directives and other
communications have strict security classifications, are hand-
carried by special couriers and stowed in safes or strong boxes.
Some communications are transmitted in code and in many un-coded
communications code abbreviations are used to indicate sender,
addressee, nd other vital data. The Japanese mails and telegraphs
are used only for unclessified matters, and for the most part intra-
party telephone conversations show plain evidence of extreme security
consciousness.
Counter
SECRET

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-23-
Counter-intelligence efforts to penetrate party secrecy
are frequently detected by the Japanese communists and various
counter-measures are constantly being adopted. Most communist
leaders have had considerable schooling in intelligence and counter-
intelligence. They are femiliar with most cloak-and-dagger techniques
and procedures from suitable evasive tactic to employ when under
surveillance to appropriate behavior when under arrest.
Japenese communism therefore is more than an open offensive
against capitalism. Like communist activity the world over, the
Japan Communist Party is also engaged in a continuous conspiracy
marked with all the well-known subversive undertones. As noted,
there is much in this conspiratorial atmosphere to appeal to
some types of Japanese, but at the same time Japanese communism
offers other psychological inducements. Rigid individual discipline
and fanatical devotion to a cause were the basic ingredients of
Jupanese nationalism and militarism. In postwar Japan, it is only
in the communist party that Japanese of this mentality can find a
similar environment. Moreover, only the Japan Communist Party
offers such emotional outlets as flag-waving parades, the singing
of stirring marching songs and the thrill of mass demonstrations.
Strange as it may seem, the Japanese National Emblem can only be
displayed on holidays with the Supreme Comnander's permission, but
the Red Flag of International Communism can be displayed or carried
by anyone at anytime.
Japanese proclivity toward hero worship can also find an
amotional outlet in communism. Today many of the colorful heroes
have been purged from national life, their names removed from text
books and their statues and momuments in public parks pulled down
and destroyed. But the great heroes of the communist pantheon can
be worsnipped freely. communists and members of communist front groups
frequently hold eetings to com.emorate Marx, Lenin anu other well
know cont.unist figures. It is particularly significant, however,
that a lons list of Japanese and other "martyrs" to the comnunist
cause has been compiled by the Rono Kyuen Kai (Labor-Farmer Relief
Society), the preseut successor to the Japanese branch of the MoPR,
the International Red Relief, a subsidiary of the Comintern. In this
list of martyrs appear the names or Richard Sorge und OAkI Hidemi,
the two principals of the Sorge Espionage Ring who were executed
by the Japanese in 1944.
The covert subversive potential of the Japan Communist Party
can be measured only in terms of other factors. Like the committing
of crime, there is the matter of motive and opportunity. That the
Japanese communists have ample motive to bid for political power
by use of illegal and subversive methods there is no doubt. To
some degree they also heve tue opportunity. Whether it is prudent
or expedient to exercise the opportunity is quite another matter.
In whatever illegal or subversive steps the communists may conterplate,
they must, or cou se, calculate the risks involved.
So
SECRET

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No.. 630
September 24,.1948.
SECRET
-24-
So long as the Occupation remains in Japan these risks are
exceedingly high. Any attempt at direct action would result in
stern measures, possibly including the suppression of the party.
It is believed that consideration of these risks is responsible
for some sharp divisions of opinion within the party between
advocates of a policy of "revolution by violence" (boryoku kakumei)
and those favoring the so-called "peaceful revolution" (heiwa kakumei).
It is unlikely, however, that the Japanese communists will
attempt a revolution by violence while Japan is under Allied
Occupation, except in the event that war were to break out between
the United States and Soviet Russia.
The covert subversive potential of the Japan Communist Party
will materially increase once the Occupation withdraws, but to
a considerable degree conmunist capabilities in Japan will remain
dependent upon the extent to which outside support can be obtained.
Numerically, the Japanese communists are a minority and will
probably not be able to increase their numerical strength to the
point where, unaided, they could physically seize power. As noted
above, however, many conservative Japanese are today apprehensive
that, once the Occupation withdraws, the communists, with direct
Soviet support, will be in a position to take over the country by
force.
Although the small numerical size of the Japan Communist
Party tenas to preclude a high subversive potential, this disadvantage
is materially offset by the peculiar conditions of postwar Japan.
With no armed forces nd having renounced in the new Constitution
the future use of any army or navy, Japan is committed to a state
of total disarmament perhaps unequaled in history. Moreover, not-
withstanding the favorable publicity it has recieved, the postwar
Japanese civil police force has displayed many shortcomings
from the standpoint of public safety maintenance. Thus the Japanese
communist today, while small in numbers, do not face the relentless,
ruthless, and erficient type of police system that existed before
Japan's surrender.
While the Japanese commaunists will for the present unquestionably
forego any attempts at a direct frontal assault because the risks
involved are too high, the Japen Comuaunist Party is nevertheless
utilizing its subversive cupabilities to the maximu. extent consistent
with present circumstances.
Thus a ramiried series or activities are continually pursued
in un effort to subvert and gain control of large numbers of non-
comaunist organizations. In this manner, the party hopes to build
up its own strength and influence by utilizing and exploiting
large, mass groups, thereby preparin: the way for the ultimate
revolution ana seizure of power. The principal fields of this "outside"
activity are to be found in lavor, agriculture, cultural groups, the
educational system, and the government service.
1. The

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 6Bo
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-25-
1. The labor movement. The postwar Japanese labor movement
is the field which has been most enthusiastically exploited by
the Japanese communists. Traditionally, of course, the communists
give first consideration to the "toiling masses". Labor is
advantageous not only because of the large numbers involved, but
also because in industrialized countries it is possible through
strikes and other forms of labor conflict to attack the most vital
points in a nation's economy.
The postwar labor movement in Japan has provided other attractions
to the Japanese comnunists. The very newness of the movement enabled
the communists to enter on the ground floor during the critioal
formative stage of many labor unions. Conmunists have frequently
provided the initiative in organizing unions and in planning union
activity, for they as a rule have more experience in such organizational
work. Communist elements which have thus infiltrated the labor move-
ment are in addition generally men in a position to be full-time
organizers, and it is frequently convenient and necessary for less
favorably situated non-comaunist union men to let the communists do
the work.
Moreover, the comaunists were able to take advantage of the
general immaturity and inexperience of Japanese organized labor.
One of the biggest obstacles to the development of real democracy
in Japan is the tendency of the Japanese to entrust all matters
to a leader and obediently follow his orders. Large-scale, democratic
participation in political or organizational activity is something
yet too unfemiliar to the Japanese. This prevailing tendency to
"follow the leader" has served the conuaunists well, especially in
the labor movement, for they have always been ready to provide the
necessary leadership.
While loudly advocating the cause of organized labor in its
propaganda, the Japan Communist Party itself has for the most
part not played too direct a role in labor union activity. There
are no communist labor unions in Japan. outwardly at least, all
unions are non-partisan organizations. It is largely through the
use of fractions that the Japanese comaunists have succeeded in
establishing indirect, but nevertheless effective, control over many
unions.
Postwar communist activity in the Japanese labor movement has
been motivated primarily by political considerations. Economic
issues are of secondary or incidental interest, merely providing
the inducements by which strikes and other forms of labor agitation
can be inspired. It is through widespread industrial strife,
particularly in such key fields as transportetion, communications,
electric power, and coal mining that communist labor strategy Beeks
to aggravate conditions to the point where economic chaos will
result in the overthrow of the government.
The
SECRET

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.97)
Emalesure to
Tokyo's No. 650
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-26-
The National Congress of Industrial Unioms (gembet) is e
principal labor organization through which the eemmemiste have
This labor federation, patterned after the Ameriean c1o, was
organized in August 1946 as a rival organizatiom to the older pem
Federation of Labor (godomei), the political afriliatioms of mmish
have always been with the Socialists. The sembetss imsludes
major unions in almost all the vital industrial fields, sueh as
transportation, communications, eloctric power, steel, coal, mewspepess,
radio, publishing,and printing. Sambetsu unions have spearhesded
all the communist-inspired labor offensives, beginning with the
femous "0ctober offensive" of 1946.
Communist control of the Sambetsu has been effected by the
fraction technique of infiltrating com unists or trusted commist
sympathizers into strategic positions in the federation and its
member unions. The first president of Sambetsu, Mr. KIKUNAMI
Katsumi, was unquestionably a secret party member, who openly
"joined" the party in l947 after he withdrew from the presideney.
Among Sambetsu's member unions, the All-Japan Eleotric workers
Union (Densan) offers a good example of communist fraction infiltration.
When the union was organized in the summer of 1946, a mall group of
militant communists headed oy Mr. FUJIKAWA Yoshitaro, Mr. TAkEUCHI
Shichiro and Mr. IRIE Hiroshi, entrenched themselves in key positions.
Gradually other communist sympathizers moved into stratogic posts
in the various committees, and although, numerically, non-communists
dominate the union's leadersnip, the well-knit, aggressive communist
fraction enjoys the actual power.
Anotler heavily conm unist-infiltrated union is the powerful
All-Japan Communication Worcers Union (Zentei), headed by Mr. DOBASHI
Kazuyoshi. Like Mr. Kikunami, before he openly "joined" the
communist party, Mr. Dobashi is in all probability a secret party
membor. r. Kikunami's successor as head of Sambetsu, Mr. KAn
Makoto, has also consistently followed a line which strongly suggests
secret membership in the Japan Communist Party.
Since he formally "joined" the party in the fell of 1947,
Mr. Kikunami has been serving as Secretary-General Tokuda's general
liaison and hatchet-man for the labor movement. It is significant
that Messrs. Kikunami. Dobashi and Kan were the three labor leaders
who attended an interview-meeting at the Tokyo foreign correspondents
club on Aurust 6, 1948 to discuss the Sambetsu's opposition to revision
of the National Public Service Law. Here were the three key figures in
the fr-ction ctivity of the Japan Communist Party in the labor move-
ment.
Mujor lttor vi fensives are engineered largely through the v rious
con.unist fructi ns in the labor unions. The schenitic chart on
page 27 illustrates a typical oxamnle of com unist mechanisn employed
to engineer a iajor labor offensive. For illuctrative purposes,
only the .echanis.  one union is shown in the chart. similar
mechanism, however, would be used in practicully all unions which had
been penetruted by coruunist fractions.
The
SECRET

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
COMMUNTST PARTY MECHANISM FOR ENGINEERING
A MAJOR LABOR FFENSIVE
Central Committee
Japan Communist
Party
Parallel Covert Activities
Parallel Overt Activities
Union Central
Central
Frac.
Erco
National Level
National Level
Executive
Struggle
of Party Action
of Party Action
Committee
Committee
Supaop"
ndng
ton
Regional Level
Union Regional
Regional
Frac
of Party Action
Regional Level
Regional
Frco
Executive
Struggle
of Party ction
Committees
Comnittees
Committees
JCP
at Prefectural, District, and
espionage "Apparats", working
various black propaganda and
Prefectural
Union Prefect.
Prefectural
Frac.
Level of Party
Prefectural
Prefectural
Committees
Erac.
Committees
Executive
Committees
Struggle
Local levels of Communist
Level of Party
Action
JCP
Action
Party Action
District Level
District
Erac
Union District
of Party Action
District Level
Executive
Committees
of Party Action
JCP
Committees
and
Local
Local
Ce11s
Union Local
of Party
Local Level
Committees
Chapters
of Party Action
JCP

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Pokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-28∞
The first step in preparing for a major labor offensive is
the establishment of "struggle committees" (toso iinkai). struggle
committees are generally established at the national, regional and
prefectural levels. The representatives of the struggle committees
are chosen by the r-spective national, regional and prefectural
executive committees of the union. In each executive committee
there is, of course, a powerful conmiunist fraction so that the
struggle comumittees in turn are sure to have their communist fractions.
Liaison between the communist party and the communist fractions
in the various committees is maintained on a horizontal, not a vertical,
basis. Thus the fractions in the Central Struggle committee and in
the Central Executive Committee of each member union receive their
orders directly from the Central Committee of the Japan Communist
Party. Fractions in the Regional Struggle Committees and in the Regional
Executive Cormittees receive their orders from the Regional Committees
of the Japan Communist Party, while fractions in the Prefectural
Struggle Committees and in the Prefectural Executive Committees, from
the Prefectural Committees of the party.
There are no fractions at the local levels of party action,
for the fraction is essentially a higher echelon mechanism. At the
local levels there are also no struggle committees. The various
local chapters of a union, the workers of which are the ones who
curry out the strike itself, are influenced and controlled by the
Local Committees of the Japan Comaunist Party dealing directly with
the communist cells and Shimpadan (sympathizer groups) in each
chapter. While the fractions in the higher echelons of the labor
organization are covert apparats, the cells are overt organs of
communist activity.
The party's vertical chain or conumand is directly f rom the
Central Committee to the Regional Committees, hence to the Prefectural,
District, and Local Committees. Within the structure of the labor
unions there is : parallel vertical chain of command, running from
the Central xecutive Committee to the Prefectural, Regional, and
District Executive Committees, and hence to local chapters of each
union. Another vertical chain of command runs from the central
Struggle Committee to the Regional and Prefectural Struggle Committees.
During & major labor orfensive, the Japan Comaunist Party also
throws into ction its parallel supporting forces. on the overt
side at all levels of action operate the various "Agitprop" *
(Agitation and Propaganda) agencies of the party and the Young Com-
munist League, such as the party's press, the work of the propaganda
and
* "Agitprop" activity has a highly specialized meaning in communist
parlance. "Agitation" is activity directed at groups and organizations
outside the communist party for the purpose of arousing them to courses
of action desired by the communists "propaganda", on the other hand,
is activity directed at the members within the party to orient them
along particular lines of thought or action and thereby keep them
fully alive to current issues and tactics. The two types of activity
are generally closely coordinated and hence Agitprop activities are
as a rule directed by a single agency. For the most part, Agitprop
action is nn overt activity.
SECRET

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-29-
and Education and the Agitation and Propaganda Sections in the party's
national, regional, and prefectural headquarters, and the activities
of party members in the Diet and other spokesmen and publicists. At
the same time, various communist front groups are called upon for
supporting action.
On the covert side, parallel supporting action is undertaken
by the Kodo-Tai, the Totsugeki-Tai, the Boei-Tai and various other
espionage and black propaganda apparats, controlled by the central
headquarters, but operating only at the prefectural, district and
local levels of action.
A major labor offensive is a complicated operation which reguires
careful planning, timing, and coordination. Although no labor offensive
has yet been fully successful from the communist standpoint, prepara-
tions for such offensives have given the party's leaders much valuable
experience.
Before the war when the party was an outlawed underground
movement struggling to keep even a skeleton organization alive, it
was never possible to contemplate, let alone plan, anything comparable
to a postwar labor offensive. Japanese communist experience in this
line of action, therefore, dates from the end of the war, but in
this brief period the comnunists have demonstrated a remarkable
aptitude for such activity. With more experience and given more
favoraule opportunities, such as might arise if the occupation with-
draws, the Japan Communist Party mi ht well be able to plunge the
country into chaos through a major labor offensive. This is one
of the party's most dan erous weapons, for a major labor offensive,
if successfully coordinated, brings into play all the overt and
covert mechanism of the party's organization.
In addition to implementing the party's strike and labor
orfensive prograns, communist fractions in the labor unions are also
responsible for directing, on party orders, various types of sabo
(sabotage) by cell .embers and sympatnizers among the laborers. Such
sabo tactics have been particularly noted among coal miners and
electric power workers. They inelude demaging tools and equipment,
making faked or unnecessary repairs, work slow-downs, inciting
workers to unrest or alarm by rumors, and other difficult-to-detect
methods of slowing down and disrupting production.
By the use of the fraction--the parallel apparat technigue--the
communist party is thus able to erfect direct control over a large
segment or the labor movement and yet eppear to have no direet
connection with the unions and tneir activities. This not only
enables the party to disclaim responsibility for labor excesses or
other undesiravle activities on the part of the unions, but it also
enables the party to claim that the "democratic workers" are
voluntarily following the leadership of the comaunist party.
2.
Acriculture
SECRET

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 650
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-30-
2. Agriculture. Communist activities in the agrarian field
have not been so conspicuous or so successful as in the labor
movement. This is partly explained by the fact that the communists
have placed greater emphasis on labor, but less widesproad and
effective communist work in the agricultural field is also due to the
more conservative temperement of Japanese farmers and their traditional
hostility toward communism. It is also important to note that in
the postwar period the Japanese farmers have enjoyed a most favorable
economic situation and have been remarkably free from the acute
hardships experienced in prewar years. Finally, the Occupation's
far-reaching land reform program has offered the Japanese farmer,
especially the tanant farmer, tangible advantages which he can com-
prehend and appreciate fer better than the more abstract and remote
agrarian utopia offered by the communists. In Japan, communism is
still mainly a movement confined to the urban population.
Nevertheless, the Japanese communists have by no means ignored
the possibility of utilizing the farmers.
The most efiective single issue the communists have been
able to exploit is the farmers' reluctance to deliver government-
fixed harvest quotas at official prices. In some areas communist
agitators have scored considerable success in urging farmers to
withhold their quota deliveries. Another effective step has been
the. anti-tax campaign conducted by the comaunists among farmers.
Much of this agitation, as well as efforts to persuade farmers to
withhold rice quota deliveries, has been handled through an influential
front organization: the Seikatsu Yogo Domei (Livelihood Protection
League), branches of which operate throughout Japan. Like so many
other similar groups, the Seikatsu Yogo Domei is a typical communist
expedient of covertly sponsoring an ostensibly spontaneous and
popular movement as 8 vehicle to implement the party's program.
As in the labor movement, the communists have also attempted
to influence the agricultural populetion through penetration and
control of the farmers' unions by means of the fraction or parallel
apparat technique.
3. The cultural front. One of the most widespread and ramified
phases of communist activity is the highly successful penetretion of
cultural and intellectual groups, the press, radio, and moving pictures.
This so-called cultural front offers the Japanese communists a most
fertile field for spreading propaganda and arousing mass support for
the communist cause.
The Japanese are perhaps without equals as orgenizers of societies
and groups. Since the end of the war there has been a vast mushrooming
of organizations generally intended to promote the "democratization" of
Japan
SECRET

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-31-
Japan, just as before the war the national scene was literally
overrun with hundreds of patriotic, militaristic and nationalistic
societies. The vast number of "democratic" cultural and intellectual
groups which have appeared since the surrender were wide open to
communist penetration. Space will not permit a full account of
these numerous groups and their activities. In almost all cases,
however, even a casual glance at their membership rolls and lists of
officers at once reveals well known communists and sympathizers,
uausally in strategic positions on the executive committees of these
organizations. The Minshu-shugi Bunka Remmei (Democratic Cultural
Federation), e league of about twenty cultural and intellectual
groups, having branches throughout Japan, is perhaps the most conspic-
uous and nationally active of these front organizations. Within its
leadership operates a powerful communist fraction which has successfully
steered this influential organization along an unmistakably communist
course. A similar situation prevails in such communist front groups
as the Sovieto Kenkyusha Kyokai (Soviet Researchers' Association)
and the Nisso Bunka Renraku Kyokai (Japan-Soviet Cultural Liaison
Association) which have become completely dominated by the communists.
One of the most recent and significant examples of communist
exploitation of a front group. is the case of the Minshu-shugi
Yogo Domei (Democracy Protection League). This organization made
1ts appearance in the middle of August i948 as an agency to give
seemingly popular support to the opposition of the Japan communist
Party to revision of the National Public Service Law in order to
prevent government workers from striking or engaging in labor
disputes. The com unists apparently felt that their opposition to
revision of the law required a broader popular base to be effective.
There is little doubt that the Japanese communists were primarily
instrumental in organizing the Minshu-shugi Yogo Domei. The league
is composed of a large number of labor unions, principally representing
the communist-iafiltrated Sambetsu, and various cultural and "democratic"
groups. of the latter, the Minshu-shugi Kagakusha Kyokai (Democratic
Scientists'Association) is the most conspicuous and apparently pro-
vides the real leadership in the Democracy Protection League. The
Demoeratic Scientists ssociation has been under complete communist
domination since its organization in 1946, and its leader, Mr. HIRANO
Yoshitaro, well known in left-wing intellectual circles, is most
likely a secret purty member. r. Hirano has assumed the leading
role in the activities of the Democracy Protection League. on
September 14, 1948 he headed a delegation representing the league
which called at the Soviet Mission in Japan and presented a petition
requestin. that the Soviet Govermnent bring the matter of revision
of the National Public Service Law before the Far Eastern Comnission.
Included in the league's delegation were two well known members of
the connunist party, mr. Hoskawa Karoku and Mr. Kakanishi Ko, both
communist members of the House of Councillors.
Almost all or these front groups nave their publications,
and although no one publication is of great importance by virtue or
its circulation or intlueuce, in the aggregate tnese groups and
their
SECRET

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
Tmo1osure to
Tokyo'a No. 650
Setember 24, 948.
SECRET
-32-
their publications spread the communist propaganda message
to vast numbers of Japanese.
Comnunist strategy toward the press, radio, and motion pictures
is pursued largely through penetration of the powerful labor unions
which have been organized among workers in these fields. The manipu-
lation of these unions through the fraction technique produces
results somewhat different from those achieved in other unions. Labor
unions among workers in tue press, radio, and motion picture fields
are of course manipulated for general strike tactics, but through
these unions the conmunists have also sought to influence the
editorial policies of newspapers, radio com.entators,and motion
picture producers. It is indeed significant that one of the first
cases of attempted production and management control on the part
of the workers occurred in a newspaper strike, the famous Yomiuri
dispute of 1946. There are certain advantages to the communists
in securing production or management control in any phase of
industry, but in the field of public information dissemination
such control carries with it the opportunity to determine editorial
policy. There have also been a number of conspicuous examples of
motion picture producers being compelled by labor union pressure
to make films which were thinly-disguised communist propeganda
vehicles.
4. Education and Government Service. Through the Japan
Teachers Union, the Japanese communists have established a secure
beachhead on the educational front. Virtually all local chapters of
this union are dominated by communists and communist sympathizers.
The chapters have recetly established an overt liaison with communist
cells among students and verious student communist front groups.
Although the communist party also reaches into the educational
field through the Young Communist League and student cells in the
schools and universities, the big drive was to capture the teachers
union, for it is through control of the teachers that the most direct
and imaediate effects can be acnieved in the educational field.
In the government service proper, as distinguished from
workers in such government enterprises as transportation and communica-
tions, communist penetration has again been efrective through
fractions in the All-Japan Government and Public Office Workers Union.
Communist activity among governnent workers, however, received a
crippling blow on July 22, 1948 when the Supreme Commander in a
letter to the Prime Minister directed a revision of the Netional
Public Service Law by which governnent workers are prohibited from
engaging in strikes and other forms of labor strife.
But securing control of governnent workers unions is not the
only method by which the communists have sought to penetrate the
government service. A far more effective and dangerous technique is
the
SECRET

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 680
September 24,.1948.
SECRET
-33-
the infiltration of secret party members and sympathizers into
important policy-making positions. Two branches of the government
have thus far been most successfully infiltrated: the communications
Ministry, which has long been under pressure of the powerful communist-
controlled All-Japan Communication Workers Union, and the nowly-
created Economic Stabilization Board. There is evidence that the
communists have made a particular effort to infiltrate the police
force, but thus far without significant success. Penetration of
police forces is a classic communist tenchique, the effectivsness of
which is attested by the results achieved in czechoslovakia before
that country was taken over completely by the communists.
The covert penetration of government service by secret party
members and communist sympathizers is a technique not too well
understood by the non-communist layman despite recent revelations
in Washington. What seems thus far to have escaped attention is
the classic communist technique of "mutual recommendations" by
which a veritable chain reaction of penetration is effected.
The mutual recommendation technique is usually set in motion
by influential individuals or groups outside the government service
recommending a secret party member or a trusted sympathizer for a
position, and then, by lobbying and other pressure tactics, securing
his appointment. once t.is advanced guard is planted in the service,
he quickly establishes himself and as soon as he has acquired suffi-
cient recognition, begins recom..ending other appointees. These in
turn follow the same process, each new entry, once he is securely
established, bringing in otners. Before long, a particular branch
of the government service can be completely permeated with a fifth
column by use of this Trojan Horse technique.
Postwar Japan hus experienced the mutual recomnendation method
of red inriltration on a tremendous scale. Many of the more plausible
of tne various communist front groups, such as the Democratic cultural
Federation and various academic and women's groups are the agencies
which take the initial step in planting advanced guards in branches
of the government service. In other cases, influential individuals
outside the govermment service provide the initial recommendation.
The so-called "Professors Group" (Kyoju Gurupu), roughly corresponding
to the left-wing Brain Trust of the early New Deal era, has been
particularly successful in infiltrating its members and other
sympathetic elements into the government.
When the Economic Stabilization Board was established in 1946,
the Profescors Grcup and other "liberal" organizations and indiviauals
realized that this new orfice ofrered an ideal field for leftist
and comaunist infiltration in view of the important role it was to
play in Japan's postwar economic planning. Largely through the
lobbying efforts of these elements, the Board's presidency was
given to Mr. WADA. Hiroo, a recognized "liberal" who had been persecuted
and victimized by the militarists during the war. Mr. Wada had been
arrested
SAORP

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-34-
arrested in connection with the famous cabinet planning Board
Incident, the full implications of which reach very far to the
left. of course, Mr. Wada was not a communist, but he soon
appointed as his right-hand man Mr. TSURU Shigeto, Harvard
graduate and well known in the United States and Japen as a
brilliant eoonomist. of course, neither was Mr. Tsuru a com.unist.
He too had the benefit of prewar persecution by the militarists.
He had been arrested while a student at Nagoya in l929 for activity
as a maaber of the Young Communist League. Again, through Mr. Tsuru's
good offices a number of other individuals sympathetic to the cause
found their way into the Economic Stabilization Board, including two
known members of the Japan Communist Party. Before joining the
Economic Stabilization Board, he worked in one of the staff sections
of General headquarters where he had been recruited by a Department
or the Army civilian employee known for his leftist inclinations.
Tsuru was no sooner comfortably established in General Headquarters
when, through his recom..endation, Mr. TAKAHASHI Masao, a communist
sympathizer frequently seen at the comunist party's headquarters,
was recruited. Like a chain reaction in atomic fission, Mr. Takahashi
was in turn responsible for bringing in Mr. ANDo Jiro, long a member
of the Japen Conununist Party and active before the war with the
Nakanishi spionage Ring which worked under Comintern direction in
China.
III. International Potential
1. International Liaison. In countries which have not
fallen under comaunist control, comumunist capabilities are frequently
dependent upon the close coordination of inter-party erforts. Not-
withstanding its recently acquired nationalistic character, communism
is essentially international in both theory anu practice. In the
deys or tne comintern, each comaunist party was officially designated
as a "national branch" or the Communist International.
The Comintern's world-wide contact with the various national
conmunist parties was hanlled thro. h its International Liaison
Section, generally known as Ois (otydel Mezhdunarodnoi Svyazi).
Berore the war Ons had some kind or sub-agency operating in Japan,
Which was supported by the Far Eastern Branch of the Comintern in
Shanghai. There is evidence tht some of the OMs organization
still exists in Japan, und occasionally reports of the activities
or a top secret agency within the party known as the International
Liaison Committee probably rerer to the O.S agency.
In May 1943 the comintern was abolished, ostensibly because
the various non-kussian conmsnunist parties nad become surficiently
strong to stani independently, but actually us a gesture to allay
fears

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 630
September 24,1948.
SECRET
-35-
fears in the United States that the Comintern was the general
headquarters for world revolution. With the formal dissolution
of the Comintern it is believed that OMS with its highly trained
specialists and elaborate files was incorporated within the structure
of the Soviet Com..unist Party.
Subsequent events have clearly demonstrated that, from the
communist or Soviet viewpoint at least, it is not desirable to
permit the various national comaunist parties to stand independently,
for they tend to become too independent, as in the case of yugoslavia.
According to the Soviet view, it is incuabent upon each national
comaunist party not only to push the cause of world comaunism, but
to push it ulong lines laid down by the Kremlin which will best
benefit the Soviet Union. As te .edieval church in Europe fought
the heretic, so today's comnunists fight uny kind of deviationist,
tht is, one who deviates (whether to the left or to the right) of
true Marxian gospel as expounded by the Soviet Politburo. Marshal
Tito's recent difficulty with Moscow is perhaps the greatest example
of a deviaticnist problen since the duys of Trotsky's memorable
deflection.
The establishment of such an overt coordinating agency as
the Conunist Information Eureau (Cominform) in September 1947
strongly suceests a Soviet realization that the various national
con.unist parties need some degree of centralized direction and
cuidance. The international potential of world conmunism has
thereby been substantially increased. In the non-communist world,
the success of comnunist strategy depends to a large degree on
coordinated attacks. For example, the communists have made
Americun "imperialism" in the Far East a prime target. If each
communist party in the Far East attacks this target in its own
anner, by its own methods, nd at its own choice of time, the
results ure not likely to be too effective. on the other hand, if
erican "imperialism" were attacked simultaneously by riots in
Korea, student disorders in China, a ceneral strike in Japan,
disturbances in the Philippines, protest meetings and demonstrations
in Hew York and Washington, and sympathy strikes throughout the
United States, the results would conceivably be far more effective.
Only through centralized control in some headquarters of world
communism could such a world-wide effort be planned, timed, and
successfully executed.
The international potential of Japanese communism has been
materially strengthened by the reappearance of a centralized control
agency. By bringing their activities into line with world-wide
trends of conmmunist action, the Japanese communists are far better
able to contribute to overall world comanunist objectives and at
the same time benefit thereby, for any activity which effectively
promotes comaunism in one country promotes it in all others.
Ostensibly the Cominfomm is limited to the nine European countries
whose communist parties participated in its organization in september
1947. It would be shortsighted to believe, however, that the cominform
will
SECRET

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to.
Tokyo'B No. 650
September 24,.1948.
-36-
SECRET
will limit its activities to Europe and will deny participation
or liaison to the communist parties of other countries. on the
basis of what is known of the organization and operation of the
Comintern, it may also be assumed that much of the Cominform's
work is of a covert nature.
In view of these considerations, credence must be given to
persistent reports of the establishment of a covert Far Eastern
Branch of the Cominform. Likewise, there is sufficient evidence
to assume thet the Japan Communist Party has established some kind
of regular liaison with the Far Eastern Cominform from which it
receives directives and guidance and to which it transmits intelligence
reports and other information of value to the Cominform in making
overall plans for coordinated activity throughout the Far East.
It is believed that liaison between the Japan Communist Party
and the Far Eastern Cominform is maintained largely through Korean
communists. There are in Japan today about six hundred thousand
Koreans, a relatively large number of whom are members of the communist
party. The illegal, large-scale movement of Koreans between Japan
and Korea provides the Japanese communists with an excellent channel
for maintaining liaison with communists on the Asiatic mainland. A
similar but smaller movement of chinese is also utilized for the same
purpose. Finally, although a one-way channel, repatriates from
Soviet territories also offer another means of maintaining contact.
In view of these available methods of liaison, it is believed that
no prominent Japanese comaunists have thus far attempted to make
personal contact with the Far Eastern Cominform, notwithstanding
numerous reports and rwaors of such activity.
The possibility of Japanese conmunist agents moving in and
out of the country cannot be dismissed, however. Although the
Occupation of Japan provides rigid control over the movements of
Japanese outside the country, the Japanese Government before the
war maintained close vigilance on the movement of comaunists and
leftists; nevertheless, communist and Comintern agents are known
to have entered and left the country without too much difficulty.
Liaison with the Cominform also brings the Japanese communists
back into the world stream of communism. In 1933 the Chinese
authorities forced the closing dowm of the Far Eastern Branch of
the Comintern in Shanghai, which had been Japan's principal link
with world communism. About the same time, the Japanese police
intensified their efforts to wipe out the comunist movement in
Japan and were to a considerable degree successful. Deprived of
the Shanghai outpost, the Comintern thereafter attempted to keep
in contact with the Japanese communists through a brench of the
International Seamens Union in Vladivostok but without notable
success. Throughout the 1930's and until the end of the war,
Japanese communism was more and more efrectively sealed off from
the worla-wide conmunist movement.
The
SEORET

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's 630
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-37-
The most obvious disadvantage of this long period of isolation
was the loss of Comintern funds which had played no little part
in financing the first Japan Communist Party and in keeping the
communist movament alive. The Shanghai Branch of the Comintern
had been the disbursing office for these secret funds. It is not
known today if the present Japan Communist Party is receiving financial
aid from either the Soviets or the Cominform, but liaison with the
Continent through Korean smuggling and blackmarketing activities is
known to provide the party with funds through the sale of smuggled
santonin and other commodities.
Also of importance was the marked decline in communist
leadership during the period or isolation. Not only were most of
the older, more experienced leaders like Mr. Tokuda or Mr. Nosaka
either in prison or in exile during this period, but the second-string
leaders wno attempted to carry on were handicapped by their inexperience
and tne absence of regular direction and guidance from abroad.
The period of isolation also tended to demoralize the Japanese
communists who could not help but regard themselves cut off as a
forlorn hope doomed to eventual extinction. one of the great appeals
of communism is the close camaraderie which the communist movement
inspires. The Japanese are as affected by this as anyone, and
being deprived of it on the international level was unquestionably a
depressing experience to them. Today the Japanese communists are
gradually getting back into the main stream of communism, and
renewed contact with the outside Marxist world is a fresh and
inspiring experience.
Postwar Japanese communism, as noted above, has developed
marked pan-Asiatic characteristics. The Far Eastern Cominform
provides Japanese communism with a ready-made channel to implement
this pan-Asiatic program. What is more, thanks to the coordinating
efforts of the Cominforn, Japanese comunist pan-Asianism can now
merge with similar communist-inspired movements in other parts of
the Far East all of which have for their immediate target the
menace of Anerican "imperialism".
The international potential of the Japan Communist Party has
been measurably increased by the fact that the com.unist movement
in Japan is now effectively geared to the program of an Asiatic
Communist Bloc which, with the slogan "racial independence", aims
to coordinate and weld together the heretofore individual efforts
of the various comnunist parties or the Far East.
2. Espionage Activities. Closely allied with the Japan
Communist Party's liaison with other communist parties are its
ramified espionage activities. several communist spy networks,or
espionage
SECRET

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
Enslosure to
Tokyo's 680
September 24, 1948.
SECRET
-38-
espionage apparats, have been discovered by counter-intelligence
efforts in Japan. The principal intelligence target of the Japanese
communists is the Occupation, with particular reference to order of
battle information, the condition of installations and equipment,
and Occupation policies. In addition, communist espionage apparats
endeavor to secure detailed information on Japanese domestic conditions,
such as centers of economic and social unrest, anti-occupation and
pro-Soviet sentiment, industrial production, the food supply,and
kindred subjects of overall strategic significance. Efforts are also
made to secure names of Occupation personnel who are pro- or anti-
communist, or who work in Occupation intelligence agencies. Again,
the communists are known to compile blacklists of Japanese officials
and business leaders who are regarded as "collaborators", the
ultimate purpose of which is only too obvious.
The purpose of these widespread espionage operations is clear.
Much of the information, especially that pertaining to the occupation,
is secured on direction of the Soviets and is channelled ultimately
to Soviet intelligence agencies. Other information concerning
production, the food supply, and general economic and social conditions
is also used airectly by the Japanese communists themselves. This
information is funnelled to the party's Chosa Bu (Investigation
Department) in the central headquarters. Such information is of value
in determining day-to-day communist "strife" tactics, and in preparing
more long-range strategic plans ror party action. other types of
information, particularly on personalities, is used for purposes of
character defamation and black propaganda.
The Occupation-directed purge of Japanese officials and business
leaders provided the Japanese comaunists with a strong incentive
to push with vigor their "research activities" on the personal
backgrounds of various indiviuuals. It is believed that some of the
iniormation thus secured on various Japanese leaders has from time
to time been furnished to the Soviet Mission, und that there are
possibly instances in which iniormation available in the party
Research Department was transimitted to sympathetic elements in General
headquarters.
Other communist research and investigation activity has been
directed toward unearthing ombarras. ing political scandals, instances
of graft and corruption, blaclaartet activities, and cases of hoarded
goods. This information is used by com.unist members of the Diet,
as editorial material for Akahata, and as the basis tor whispering
campaigns und other forms of rumor-mongering designed to undermine
popular support or non-comunist cabinets. The movement to expose
hidden goods has been vigorously pushed by the party throughout the
entire country, frequently with violence and illegal entries by
organized bands of party toughs, known as Tekihatsu-Tai (Exposure
Squads).
The

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No: 630
September 24, -1948.
SECRET
-39-
The Shimin Taisaku Bu (Urban Peoples Department) in the
central headquarters is believed to be the party agency which
directs and coordinates the operations of the various communist
espionage apparats. In addition, however, there are a number
of known Soviet-controlled espionage networks which apparently
operate independently of the Japan Communist Party. These networks
are headed by Japanese communist agents who have been smuggled
into Japan from Soviet territories, particularly Sakhalin.
Several of these operatives who were later apprehended had brought
with them special shortwave radio equipment and other stock
espionage apperatus.
What is particularly significant, however, is the multiple
and parallel operation of conmunist party apparats and the
independent Soviet-controlled networks. Each espionage system
operates independently of and presumably unknown to the other,
but there have been cases where both systems are known to have
been given by higher Soviet intelligence authority the same
espionage missions, identical to minute details.
Soviet intelligence has long been known to employ the
multiple-parallel technique in espionage operations, whereby one
intelligence target is attacked simultaneously by two or more
different branches of the intelligence service, each working
independently of and unknown to the other. What one group may
fail to discover may be unearthed by another; if one group is
compromised the others are left undisturbed; and the higher
intelligence authorities in the end have the advantage of comparing
and collating the results achieved by the various agencies. At
the same time, the Soviets frequently set against one target
a number of independent networks operating under the same intelli-
gence arm.
spionage activities undertaken by conmunist parties provide
the Soviets with additional diversification in operating under
the multiple-purallel technique. The Japan Comaunist Party
serves this function and apparently serves it well.
IV. Conclusions
Any assessment of the potential or the Japan Comrunist Party
must take into account the influence of the occupation. so long
as Japan remains primarily under American occupation, comaunist
capabilities are determined more by what scope of action the occupation
will permit than by what the com.unists themselves desire to under-
take.
In the
SECRET

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
-40-
In the political field, the communist.potential is at
present weak and is not likely to make significant gains in
the near future. As a legal, political organization, the
Japan Communist Party remains essentially a minority. Any
substantial gains in membership and influence will probably
be contingent upon Japan's general economic conditions. If
conditions continue to improve and Japan can avoid a serious
depression involving large-scale unemployment when the present
period of inflation comes to an end, the overt political potential
of the Japanese communists will not appreciably rise. on the
other hand, if there are economic setbacks and Japan plunges
into a disastrous depression, we can look for a marked increase
in communist party membership and communist influence, whether
or not Japan remains under American occupation.
In assessing the significance of the Japanese communists'
overt political potential, it is also necessary to bear in mind,
as noted earlier, that the comaunists do not attach too much
importance to the possibility of winning elections and gaining
power by parliamentary majorities. Strictly orthodox Marxian
concepts of coraunist political action still dominate the thinking
of the Japanese communists, and, among other points, such orthodox
views do not attach importance to working through constitutional
and parliamentary mechanism.
Adherence to this orthodox view, therefore, means that the
Japanese communists are far more concerned with building up and
perfecting the party's ccvert subversive potential. This potential,
demonstrated largely through communist-inspired strikes and other
aisorders, has been and remains high, notwithstanding the occupation's
general tightening up toward the communists. After three years of
strenuous postwar activity, the Japanese comaunists have been
slowly improving and perfectin; methods of covert and subversive
operation. They have developed the fracticn, or parallel apparat
technique, to the point waere large bodies of' workers and other
organizations can easily be controlled and manipulated. They
have also developed widespread espionage apparats, and although
not as yet put to use, it is certain that they have laid the
groundwork for the entire gamut of terrorist apparats of which
such groups as the Youth Action Corps, the Attack Corps, and the
Defense Squads may be merely surface manifestations.
Finally, through the Cominform, the Japan Communist Party
has once more reestablished contact with the main currents of
world communism, and the partys international potential - its ability
to assist other communist purcies anu in turn be assisted by them -
has substantially increased. So long as Japen remains under American
occupation, however, the comnunist international potential is of
more secondary importance. It is the future implications of the
party's international activities wnich are of more significance.
Charles N. Spinks

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
sile
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, October 1, 1948
PERSCNAL and SECRET
Dear John:
This will acknowledge receipt of your letter of September 17, 1948
commenting upon Nelson Spinks' despatch of August 23 regarding the
Japan Communist Party's desire for an early peace conference. The
additional factors which you mention in your letter are, of course,
part and percel of the reasons behind the shift in the Comnunist Party
policy. e are glad to receive your thoughts on this matter. s94.ooß-
I will not attempt to comment on this subject as we are s ending
894.00
by this pouch a lengthy study on communism in Japan (Despatch No. 630,
September 24, 1948, subject: "The Communist Potential in Japan"). At
my suggestion, Spinks began working on this study imnediately after
reporting for duty with t is Mission. It is, in my opinion, extremely
well written, informative, and in some respects exhaustive regarding
this problem. I think it will well repay you to read the study in its
entirety even though it runs into many pages. The purely mechanical
job of preparing the s tudy has been large which somewhat accounts for
the time it has taken to send it to Washington. The draft left my
desk approximately three weeks ago.
-148
In order that you may have the benefit of this study without delay,
I have given instructions to send it directly to vou as Chief of NA.
Presumably, you will then attend to the necessary distri bution in the
Department. We have not marked it For Department Use Only but at the
same time, I think some limitation should be placed on its distribution.
Jincerely yours,
Beill.
1. 5. ebald
John M. Allison, Esquire,
Chief, Division of Northeast Asian Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington 25, D.C.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIR
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
e31948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
United States Political Advis
for Japan
FAR EASTERN
No. 716
194P
Tokyo, November 9, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
1949
DC/R
Sut jeet:
Japanese Concern over Communist Activity
in Hokkoi io ni Kyushu.
The Honoraole
The Secretery of State,
894.00B/11-948
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's
aesputch No. 709 or November 4, 1948 concerning
Japanese reactions to the communist capture of Mukden.
The fall of ukden and increasing communist activity
throughout the F: r ast have caused the Japanese to
reconsider the sinificance of the communist movement
in Je pun, nd specit1 attention has been directed toward
the stron co mmuniet positions in Hokkaido and Kyushu,
the tvo extremities of postwar Jupan which are closest
to the noiatie  inlend.
Shortly foor the comunist party was revived
in Jupun followin the surrenler co mmunist activity
in Lokk ido became pmrtieularly noteworthy. Since 1945
perty membership in Hokk ilo hes been conspieuously
high, cspeei: lly in terms of the rel tively small popu-
letion of ti tolend nt itn predom inently rural charaeter.
As of January 1948, on the becis of informotion compiled
from a number of reli: ble courcen, it was estimated by
tlis Lead guarters that there were five thousund party
members in Hokkeido. There are very likely ten thousand
or more ut preseit. In Junuary l948, however, party
membership in Noltkeilo representel &.l pereent of the
estimuted tot:1 of el,S5o party members throuchout Japan.
Hokkaido membership c:me second after Tokyo's 8,500
(13.8 pereent), nd wes followel by Cu ks 's 4,sóo members
(7.4 percent of vie total).
as of Junr ry 1948 the sue cureful estimstes of
the combined com unint membernhip for the soven prefectures
of kyushu wae 4, coo of which two thousand alone were con-
centreted in Fukuoks Prefecture. Kyushu commaunists
represented 7.9 pereent or the p rty'. total menbership.
The
JO

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.97)
4ovcdber 9, 1068:
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
The significance of communist strength ean best
be measured in terms of the ratio of party membership
to the total population. Assuming a population of 78
million, there was in January 1948 one communist party
member for every1,267 Japanese. In Hokkaido, with a
population of 3,852,850, the ratio was 1 to 770; in
Tokyo, with a population of 4,997,666, the ratio was 1 to
588; and in Osaka, with a population of 3,335,515, the
ratio was 1 to 74i. The combined population of the seven
prefectures of Kyushu 1s approximately 11,399,000 and tho
comunist ratio in this area as of January 1948 was only
1 to 2,362, which is a much smaller ratio than the national
average.
The communist position in Hokkaido has combined
a relatively high membership with intensified party
activity which in the case of the recent job desertion
tactics during the reilway dispute led to a large
number of arrests and numerous incidents of violence.
The communist party in Hokkaido is exceedingly well
organized under Lir. HASEGAWA Hiroshi, veteran party
member, as the regional organizer. For the most part
Hokkaido communists are of the "hard core" type.
Shortly before the government railway workers commenced
agitetion in September against revision of the National
Public Service Law, which was featured by widespread job
desertions which threatened to disrupt railway traffic in
Hokkaido, a number of top comnunist leaders, including
Mr. NOSAka Sanzo, visited the northern island. The
close attention paid by party leaiers to Hokkaido has been
widely 1nterpreted as evidence thut the communists have a
special mission in this res.
Hokkaido is also un important center of party
espionage activity and more infortion concerning the
covert, subversive side of the party's work has come
from tokkaido tran from any other part of Japan. Recent
reports indicate that the liokkaido conmunists are waging
an intensive psychological warfare cumpain desined to
stress how easily Soviet forces can seize tlis island in
the event of war, and thtat e pe le r: best alin them-
selves with: the coruunist case before the Soviets take
over.
Most well informed Jupenece are fully cognizant
of the comparetively stron: position the con. unists
occupy in Lokkaido, their exce tionally ar gressive
spirit, nd te nature of their demor: iizin racade.
accordin-ly, it is not surprisin: tint continued Soviet-
american tension  nd t.e si ectuculr com.unist  ins
on the continent Lave caused t:e Jopanese to look to
their nort.. ern isl n: with inereusih coneern.
how

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 716,
November 9, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
How much the problem of Hokkaido has come to
occupy Japanese attention can be seen in the faot that
the October, l948 issue of three magazines devoted
articles to communist activity in the island. Hokkai
Keizai Shimpo contained two articles which desoribed
In detail the activities of communist agitators and
frections in connection with the government railway
dispute and conuunist activity among the Hokkaido coal
miners. The magazine Kaizo gave an a ccount of the
Hokkaido labor movement and &ttempted to explain its
pronounced conmunist character. Finally, the very anti-
com..unist monthly Sempu (this ission's despatohes Nos.
450 :nd 554 of July 20, 1948 and August 25, 1948,
respectively) in an article dealing with the raiiway
dispute in Hokkaido charged that Japan is faced with
a "revolution from the north."
The situation in Kyushu differs considerably
from thst in Hokkaido, but there are nevertheless dis-
turbing similarities.' Comaunist party membership in
the island is small, but this has been offset by the
able leadership of Mr. hOo Yojiro, the party's regional
organizer. As a result, the party in Kyushu is exceedingly
well organized on the basis of the so-called Konno
system, which has enabled this small minority to carry
on effective lsbor agitation in the vital coal mines
and the steel industry of the island.
While there hus been infiltration of Soviet
agents into Hokkaido, rimarily for espionage purposes,
Kyushu appears to be the principal point of liaison
vith continent.l conmunists. In this connection, it
is of speciel si, nificance thet one of mr. Konno Yojiro's
principal duties us regional oranizer in Kyushu is the
coordinution of Jupenese connunist  nd Korean activities.
For these reasons, Kyushu, like Tokkaido, has come to
occupy an important lace in communist strategy, the
rull si nificance of hicl is beconin of more and more
concern to most Jtrunese.
hokkaido's newly-acquirel proxi. ity to Soviet-held
ter itory has brought to t.e Jupunese eople  far more
convincin: communist specter tan ny bo ey the re-war
militarists were ever able to duvise. Perts of the Kuril
Islands end sout. ern Sakhulin re cletrly visible from
Lokkaido, and fre uent seizures or Jununese eraft by
Soviet
JONT IDE TIAL

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.93)
Toky
atch No.716
ovembè1,1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
Soviet patrol authorities during this year's fishing
season have served to remind the Japanese that the
power of the Soviet Union now extends almost to the
shores of the Japanese home islands (this Mission's
despatch No. 706 of November 2, 1948). The communist
uprisings in South Korea, followed by the red victory
in anchuris, have also iemonstrated to the Japanese
that the home island of Kyushu is comparatively close
to another center of conmaunist power.
respectfully yours,
V. J. Sebald
0i1eeto
to Jt t

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
WASHINGTON
November 24, 1948
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I am enclosing herewith, for your in-
File
formation, a copy of a Federal Bureau of Investi-
894.00B
gation memorandum dated November 10, 1948,
entitled - Research Institute of International
Problems, Internal Security, R. -, together with
its enclosure.
With kind regards,
Singerely,
2448
Attorney General
PM 12 530
GRANCH
Hon. George C. Marshall
1
Secretaryof State
1517175
Washington, D. C.
ON 870
R
CR-CLAIMS GROT

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
i!
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, December 3, 1948.
No. 760
CONFIDENTIAL
For Department Use Only.
Subject:
Japanese Concern Over Communist-Rightist
Conflict.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit to the Department
translations of two articles from Nippon Shuho (Japan
Weekly) of October 15, 1948 concernin communist and
ultra-rightist activities in Japan. These translations
were made by the Kokusai Press and disseminated in the
November 4, 5 and 6, 1948 is sues of Japan Review,
its English translation service publication.
The article on "Fractional Activities of
Revolutionists," prepared by the editorial department
of Nippon Shuho, is indicative of growing apprehension
toward the covert, subversive activities of the
Japanese communists. The article endeavors to expose
the communist fraction technique whereby it is possible
for a small communist group to manipulate leadership
and thus "throw a country into chaos and destroy its
economic structure." In this connection, the article
notes with concern both the relatively weak character
of the reorganized police systen and the reported
efforts of the communists to recruit party members among
policemen. As an example of the fraction method of
operation, the article gives an account of communist
strike tactics at the Toho Motion Picture Studio, a
serious dispute which before its final settlement
required police intervention on an unprecedented scale.
With a powerful fraction dominating the Japan Screen and
Stage Workers Union, the Toho strike was quickly
supported by the communist-controlled All-Japan Comnuni-
cation Workers Union which successfully disrupted
telephone
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 760,
December 3, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
telephone and mail communications at the studio. Other
powerful communist-infiltrated unions gave support and
encouragement to the Toho strikers.
In conclusion, the article emphasizes that the
subversi ve activities employed by communist fractions
belie all pretensions that the communist party is a
legally operating political party.
The second article in the October 15 issue of
Nippon Shuho concerns the ultra-rightist potential in
postwar Japan. The write:, YAMAMoTo Akira, begins wi th
an account of the fanatical, terro rist activities of
some of the die-hard militarists on August 15, 1945
when attempts were made to assassinate political leaders
responsible for Japan's surrender. This represented the
last overt effort of the ultra-rightists to retain
control for, according to Yamamoto, they were theresfter
pushed underground by the new leftist movements which
followed Japan's defeat. The writer then describes
the gradual reappearence of a new rightist front which
in his view represents a kind of reaction to leftist
excesses culminating in the abortive February 1 general
strike of 1947. Under an anti-conmunist banner, the
postwar rightists are attempting to reestablish their
discredited position. Some of the anti-communist
groups have already resorted to terrorism in attempts
to assassinate Mr. KIkUNAI Katsumi, former head of
the National Congress of Industrial Unions, and
Secretary Generel TOKUDA Kyuichi of the Japan Communist
Party. More recently an alleged plot was discovered
to assassinate Mr. ITO Ritsu and Kr. MIYAMOTO Kenji,
conmunist party central committeemen. Most snti-communist
activity by organized groups has taken place in Kyushu
where the principal and most influential organization,
the Chrysanthemum Flag Comrades Society (Kikuhata Doshi
Kai) has its headquarters in Kumamoto. The author
believes that there are at least l60 rightist organizations
now active in Japan. Many, of course, are of exceedingly
small membership. Although Mr. Yamamoto feels thet anti-
communist organizations have a legitimate place in
Japanese politics, he points to the serious danger of
terrorist groups which use anti-connunism as a cover
for their illegal activities.
It is difficult to assess accurately the present
importance of the ultra-rightist front in Japan or
to determine its future implications. Until the end
of the war rightist and militaristic groups, ranging
from overt, legal organizations (having top military
men and stetesmen among their members) to subversive,
terroristic bands closely linked with the Japanese under-
world, existed in such large numbers that even the
Japanese police were uneble to keep them all listed.
Their
CON IDENTIAL

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 760,
December 3,1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Their aggregate membership was unquestionably large,
further augmented of course by the numerous sympathizers
and nangers-on which such groups had. It would be naive
to assume thst the members of these organizations after
years of intense rightist indoctrination and long service
as the veritable spearhead of Japanese militarism and
nationalism have, since the surrender, renounced their
beliefs and turned to liberal and democratic views.
On the other hand, there is little evidence that
the pre-surrender rightist front has gone underground
in the usually accepted meaning of the term. Some pre-
surrender rightist elements have managed, however, to
preserve some degree of corporate identity by participation
in non-political activities. An interesting example is
KAGLYAivi Masaheru's leadership in a poetry society.
Before the surrender Kageyama was a vociferous patrioteer
who participated in the affairs of ε large number of
rightist societies. Today he heads a club devoted to
the composition of poems which are thinly-disguised
propaganda on behalf of nationalism and the Tenno system.
many members of the club were formerly associated with
Kageyama in patriotic society activity, and through
an organ publication the present group preserves the
former associations and relationships of its members.
There are also examples of rightist elements
preserving their pre-surrender associations by the
organization of business concerns, especially contract-
ing firms. The Jinchu Gumi, a construction company
headed by TallnA Seigen, is a well known example of this
method. Tanaka, originally a communist, later became
a: sociated with the ultra-rightist movement.
Although all ultra-rightist and militeristic
organizations were abolished et the beginning of the
Occupation, it has been necessary to order the disbanding
of severel postwar groups sucl as the Shinei Taishu To
(Elite Mass Party), a member of which a ttempted to
assassinate Mr. Kikunami. A nu ber of postwar rightist
organizations also appear to have reestablished the prewar
link between the Japanese underworld and ultra-nationalism
through affiliation with local oyabun (bosses), racketeers,
gamblers, and blackmarket operators.
At present, however, what can be called the ultra-
rightist front is not a well-organized, nationwide
movement. It should not be confused with the so-called
kuromaku, or behind-the-scene manipulation, which is
still evident in Japanese politics and which has led to a
number of scandals affecting the major political parties.
This
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 760,
December 3,1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
This activity is something indigenous to all phases of
Japanese politics at both national and local levels,
but the recent publicity it has received does not
represent the discovery of a new and sinister force or
the resurgence of something once suppressed. The kuromaku,
as it operates today, is merely the continua tion and
survival of a well-established Japanese political form
which the new democratic forces have not yet been able
to supplant and probably will not supplant for some time.
The kuromaku is an institution which cannot be eliminated by
elict alone. Its elimination will reguire a long process
of education and experience in the operation of democratic
governfent.
Since the end of the war the ultra-rightist front
has not constituted e threat to the Occupation. Its
activities have been on an exceedinly limited scale
and with the exception of the above-mentioned Kikuhata
Doshi Kai, which is a somewhat moderate and reputable
group compared with most ultra-rightist organizations,
no orgenized activity on anything approaching a nation-
wide basis hes yet been noted. Like comrunism, the
ultra-rignt reyuires a suitable politico-economic environ-
ment in which to flourish and enjoy mass appeal. Postwar
Japan has to some degree provided that environment, but
heretofore only communism hes been able to take full
advantage of it. Of tre two political extremes, communism
has enjoyed a favored position, for while pronouncements
of Allied policy, the purge and other political restrictions
enforced by the Occupation have dealt a crippling blow
to the Japanese ultre-rightist position, no comparable
hendicaps heve affected Jepanese communism.
The growti. of comnunisn in postwar Japan and
frequent conaunist-ins ired excesses (particularly in
the labor movement) which heve adversely affected the
economic well-teing of tle entire population, heve
unfortunately proviaed a plausible basis for a resurgence
of ultra-rightist ac ivity unaer un anti-communis t banner.
Just as communism must have an "enemy" to attack if it
is to flourish, the ultre-ri nt can enjoy little popular
up eal unless it can ulso pose as the nation's defender
against some real or hypothesical menace. Japunese
communism has provided unat menace and in a very tangible
form. It is therefore no surprise that anti-communism
has been the keynote of the ineipient rightist revival
in postwar Japan.
There are believed to be two ultimate dangers
arising from the reeppearanee of an ultra-riphtist
front in Japun.
In the roreseeable future tie ultra-rightist
front cannot by itself constitute a serious tnreat to
the Occupetion or to Japenese denoeratic development;
but

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 760,
December 3, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
but one ultimate danger lies in the struggle of the
extreme right and the extreme left for political power.
Each extreme provides a provocative challenge to the
other by serving as a menace to which the other can
point with alarm and thereby attempt to arouse popular
support. In this s ense, the two extremes are therefore
complementary forees, and each, to some degree, requires
the existence of the other if it is to succeed in its
strugle for power. The conseuences of such an extreme
left-right struggle are already well known from what
has occurred in other countries. If one or the other
emerges victorious, the result is the same, for a
totalitarian regime inevitably comes to power at the cost
of real democracy. The left-right struggle in postwar
Japan has by no  eans reached such serious proportions,
but tne basis for such a struggle exists and will continue
to exist so long as national well-being is threatened
by economic maladjustments.
The other ultimete danger to Japan in this matter
lies in the similarity of methods and aims of both
extreme left and extreme right. The systomized subversion
and illegal aspects of comaunism have their counterparts
in many of the ultra-rightist groups. oth are
conspiratorial; both resort to strong-arm and terroristic
methods. 3oth have contempt for democratic, parliamentary
process of government; both have the intention of
drastieally modifying or destroying the capitalistic
system. Before the war it was not unusual to find former
coununists active in ultra-rightist movements, and the
same phenomenon can still be observed. Conversely,
there u re communist party members today who were formerly
associuted with militaristic und nationalistic activity
or who were profeasional or isers in the Army. The
apparent ease with which individuals in Japan have and
continue to move from one extr-me to the other is striking
evidence of how comparatively close in reality the two
totalitarian extremes are to each other. The intense
coniliet between the two extremes tends to obscure the
similarity or their metnods and their ultimate aims,
but in reslity the extreme left and the extrene right
represent a common danmer to Japanese demoeracy.
Most Japunese apiear to be feirly coenizant of the
similarities whieh characterize the two political extremes
in their country, and, except among the Japanese leftists,
there has been far less tenleney in Japan than elsewhere
to identify conaunism with demoeracy and to cegard
fascism as the only totolitarian menace. In the November
1948 issue of Shakai Shicho appears a seathing criticisa
of the Japan Conmunist Party Tor its totalitarian methods
by r. YoNEkU3O Mitsusuke who makes the following
significant comparison:
"In
CONNDDENTIAL

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 760,
December 3,1948.
-6-
"In ideology, the Communist Party and
the fascist-like rightist organizations are
as different as black and white, but there is
a great similarity in the relationship of the
members to the leaders, the activities, the
despotism of the leaders, the secretiveness of
methods used in managing the Party, so much so
that the Communist Party is very fascist and
totalitarian in coloring.'
As the records show, even the former Japanese
Thought rolice devoted as much attention to extreme
rightist groups as they did to the communists. The
great upsurge of ultra-rightist activity in Japan
occurred during the early 1930's when the movement
gained sufficient momentum to carry the ultra-rightists
into power despite the little-publicized efforts of
the Japanese police to eradicate such activity. The
primary cause of the upsurge of rightist activity in
the early 1930's was, of cou se, the severe economic
depression of that period. The future of the postwar
ultra-rightist front in Japan must therefore be considered
largely in the light of Japan's economic position.
Economic stability will prove the most effective barrier
to the growth of either faseism or communism in Japan.
It is believed, however, that the present publicity
being accorded in the Japanese press to the reappearance of
an ultra-rightist front should be viewed realistically.
lmost of the articles discussing the subject are the work
of leftists and communist sympathizers. For example,
ar. Yamamoto Akira, whose article is described in this
despatch, is an active member of the left-wing cultural
front. Again, in tne November issue of Sekai Hyoron
appears another article on this theme, entitled "The
Collapse and Reconstruction of Japanese Fascism" by
Professor UKamOTo Seiichi of Doshisha University. It
is significant to note that Professor Okamoto was a
member of KAJI Wataru's group in China during the war
and is today closely affilieted with Mr. Kaji's extremely
left-wing activities in Japan.
The apiearance in recent months of comparatively
widespread criticism of an alleged fascist revival in
Japan, most of which is the work of well known leftists,
strongly suggests thet this publicity campaign is in
part a diversionist movement. It follows closely the
more intensified anti-fascist tone which has characterized
much of the propaganda recently disseminated b: the
Japan Communist Party. Since August, 1948 the communist
party has been under inereasing pressure as a result
of its aggressive tactics in opposition to revision of
the National Fublic Service Law, and for the first time
in postwar Japan the communists are feeling the force
of the law in a large number of arrests of party members,
including two central committeemen. It is very likely,
therefore, that in an effort to relieve this pressure,
the Japanese communists are making greater efforts to
divert attention to the alleged revival of fascism. Un-
fortunately, the existence of a small but nevertheless
ultra-
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 760,
December 3, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-7-
ultra-rightist movement, combined with the assassination
attempt on Mr. Tokuda, has given the communists a plausible
basis for such a diversionary effort.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Two articles from Nippon Shuho,
(Japan Weekly) of October 15,
1948.
Copies to:
American Embassy, Moscow
American Embassy, London
Original and hectograph to Department
800
CNSpinks:mhr
JONPIDENTLAL

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 760
dated December 3, 1948 from the
United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject,
"Japanese Concern Over Communist-
Rightist Conflict".
ACTIVITIES OF THE RED REVOLUTIONISTS
AND RISING ULTRA-RIGHTISTS
From the Nippon Shuho, (Japan Weekly), Oct. 15, 1948.
(EDITOR'S NOTE:- With the intensification of international
situation, the activities of the Communists for throwing this
country into a chaos have been growing increasingly vigorous.
Meanwhile, recently some magazines have begun talking about the
rise of new fascism. The Nippon Shuho, or Japan Weekly, of Octo-
ber 15 issue, reported the operation of these two groups. Our
selection of this story does not necessarily mean that we have
confirmed what this article reports, but such moves as pointed
out in this article cannot be denied.)
FRACTIONAL ACTIVITIES OF REVOLUTIONISTS
No longer are people talking about a Cold War but a Cold
War is now being waged within the labor movement of this country,
between the Communist fractionists aiming at a Bolshevik Revolu-
tion and the forces within endeavoring to check them.
With the international situation growing tense, fractional
activities are intensifying and running wild in the direction
straight at a revolution. The following seeks to give a picture
of this situation.
"Lovable Communists" Only a Signboard
When one heard of the Communist slogan: "Capture 1,O00,000
members by becoming lovable Communists," one would have thought
that the Communists had become democratized in a postwar world.
In the report of General Chang Chun, former President of the
Chinese Executive Yuan, who visited Japan in September, he said
that in the past three years the strength of the Communists had
increased from 80,000 to 300,000 and the 1abor unions under the
control of the Communist party boasted of 1,O00,000 members.
(AP, Sept. 18) In fact, it must be admitted that under the
pressure of hard life engendered by the inflation the influence
of the Communist Party has greatly gained in power.
But a strength of 300,000 among a people of 80,000,000 is
not such a menace. The thing that is really menacing the living
of the people with terrific strength is the fractional activities
of the Communist Party. As their fractional activities had become
too notorious among the public, the party at their sixth conven-
tion (in December last year) changed their fractions to groups but
the

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 760,
December 3, 1948.
- 2 -
the change of name has only resulted in intensification of their
activities.
The Communist Party has for its aim a Communist revolution.
If they could secure the bulk of the people as members and thus
achieve revolution there would be nothing to say but that is
conceivable only as an ideal and there is no possibility that
it would materialize in actuality. Moreover, the tense interna-
tional situation demands that Japan should be dragged as quickly
as possible into a state ripe for a revolution.
Mysterious "Instruction from a Certain Quarter"
As if to suggest this, early in June this year the Democratic
League of the Government Railways Workers' Union circulated what
they said were "instructions from a certain quarter." It was
said that the note containing the instructions had been found on
the desk of Kyuichi Tokuda, secretary-general of the Communist
Party, at headquarters. The Communists naturally laughed it
off saying it was sheer "fabrication". The alleged instructions
were:
A. Instructions to Communists Abroad
1. Encourage blind patriotism and cause friction
between different states;
2.
Encourage agitations calculated to increase friction
between nations;
3. work on foreign envoys;
By these means national sabotage and coup d'etat will
be caused.
B. Duties in State and Government
1. Join hands with influential people within the
country by every means;
2. Work on influential persons;
3. Instigate agitations against the Government.
C. Duties in the Economic Spnere
1. Bring about a railways strike and support it;
2. Put railroads and bridges out of commission;
3.
Make every effort to disrupt transportation and
communications;
4.
Interfere with supplies of cereals into cities;
5. Create a state of public finance difficubties;
6. Flood

=== Page 191 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 760,
December 3, 1948.
-3-
6. Flood the market with counterfeit banknotes;
7. Make special committees.
Aside from the authenticity of these instructions, there is
no denying the striking resemblance of the activities of the
Communists to date to the program contained in the mysterious
document.
A Small Fraction Suffices for Revolution
But the situation is decidedly tense. If it is demanded
that the flames fanned in India, Malaya, Indonesia, China and
North Korea should ignite Japan, a step such as secufing 1,000,000
members for the party is slow and uncertain, involving too much
trouble for too little gain. It would be more effective and less
trouble to let a small crack fraction secure the leadership and
throw a country into chaos and destroy its economic structure.
Even if a revolution cannot be brought about immediately thus,
it would be something gained if a state should be severely shaken
by such an upheaval.
Since the nation's police system was divided into the munici-
pal (autonomous) and national rural police, the Communists have
begun working with the aim of capturing 20,000 policemen into
their fold. The national rural police is a relatively weak
organization because it stretches out into the remote countryside
although its total number is large. If there should arise a
disturbance in urban centers, which are guarded by the municipal
police, there is not telling what dire consequences will ensue
if the police force is dotted by Communist fractionists and fel-
low travellers.
As for the Government railroad system, Communists wield
particularly strong influences in strategic centers of transpor-
tation such as Shimbashi (Tokyo), Aomori and the Hokkaido. If
they engineer a strike, trains are bound to come to a standstill.
They can quite easily paralyze traffic and industry. There is
no special device needed for such a revoluticn. A few fractions
of a small strength suffice.
First Fires of Revolution Lit in Toho Studios
How, then, do fractions worm into different organizations
and cause agitations? Let us take the case of the Toho Studios.
The workers at the Toho Studios belonged to the Japan Screen
and Stage Workers' Union (Nichi Eien), as a member of the Congress
of Industrial Organizations. From Nichi Eien, Daiei and Shochiku
workers had seceded and only Toho and Shinkyo Gekidan, well-known
for its Communist leanings, remained. It was, therefore, completely
a leftist organization.
The 49 members of the executive group that directed the strike,
except six, were members and sympathizers. At a fractional con-
ference at which cells were formed of three members each and on
Mondays representatives of Nichi Eien gathered at Communist head-
quarters for a conference. The setup was that what they were told
there was to be circulated as instructions among the strikers at
the studio.
It

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 760,
December 3, 1948.
- 4 -
It was not a mere economic struggle against the discharge of
fellow workers but one to establish bolshevik government. This
was clear from the outset.
For instance, on April 25 at a plenary session of the Struggle
Committee, Yoshio Miyajima (cameraman who shot "War and Peace")
declared that he would lead the studio cells and guide some
100,000Communists.
The cell organ, "Star", published at the studio, said on
May 12: "Down with the Ashida Cabinet and complete independence
of Japan" and on May 28: "Youth of the land, arise. Youth is the
flame of a revolution." In tnese political slogans they insti-
gated a revolution.
Threat of Joint Front
As Setagaya where the studio is located is the fifth Tokyo
constituency and Kyuichi Tokuda, secretary-general, is a Representa-
tive from that constituency, the success or failure of the strike
was thought to affect his election chances the next time. Thus he
rallied his party and labor unions under party leadership in a
concerted attack on the Toho management.
When a strike got under way, telephone communication stopped
all of a sudden in the movie studio, mail delivery was delayed and
the management's plans were channeled to the striking employes from
telephone operators tampering with the telephone wire. All these
mischiefs were done by fractionists of the ational Communications
Workers' Union.
The Government Railway Workers Union, meanwhile, proclaimed
non-cooperation with the Toho Motion Iicture Company and threatened
interference with location activities. The Electric Industry
Workers' Union (Densan) joined the nuisance movement by threaten-
ing to stop the electric current unless the management rescinded
its dismissal order.
Frac. Meetings with Company Money
The motion picture, "Honoo no Otoko" (Man of Flame), is a
propaganda film of the Government hailway Workers' Union. Ironi-
cally enough, the script of this picture was branded as "no good"
by the Communist fractionists themselves.
Script writers' meetings for revising the scenario were held
frequently at an Atami inn, incurring enormous expenses before
even a foot of film was shot. Those who attended these meetings
were all Communists so that the conferences became fraction meet-
ings - all at the company's expense.
The most vicious fractional activities were carried out by
Committeemen Yoshida and Wada of the Metropolitan Labor Relations
Board during the mediation efforts made late on the night of
August 9. Taking advantage of their privileges as Board Members
the pair fulfilled their duty as Communist members to the fullest
extent.
When

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 760,
December 3, 1948.
- 5 -
When 150 members of the anti-Communist Democratization Club
entered the studio on August 9, a clash took place between them
and the besieged members of the Japan Motion Picture and Theatrical
Workers' Union. Following prolonged disturbances, the Metropolitan
Labor Relations Board stepped in to mediate but the Union members
resorted to a delaying tactics withholding their reply till 3:30
a.m.
When the Board mediators proposed that the Democratization
Club men withdraw, the latter refused to comply with the sugges-
tion. Then Board member Wada gave his word that he would see to
it that the besieged Union men would be evicted from the premises
of the studio "even with the aid of the procurators." Thus assured,
the Club leaders consented to withdraw from the premises. Masaichi
Ito proceeded forward to contact the Club men waiting for orders.
When he proceeded to Studio No. 2, some 30 members of the
'Defense Corps of the Communist Youth Party" rushed forth and
encircled him, subsequently knocking him down on the concrete
floor. The ruffians kicked and beat him and finding Ito bleeding,
they took him to the medical treatment room.
Despite the bloody incident, the Club men withdrew in compli-
ance with the Board members' suggestion. On the following morning,
the Club men found the Union members still besieging the premises
and protested to the Board member, Wada. The latter, however,
calmly countered the protest with a nonchalant statement that the
Union men had refused to get out of the studio.
Moreover, Mr. Wada had advised the Chief of the Seijo Police
Station to retire giving him the assurance that there would be no
trouble that night. It is evident from these activities that Mr.
Wada, despite his mission as a Board mediator, did all he could to
help the Union men in conjunction with the fractionists.
Agitate for Frolonged Trouble
On August 19, 2,000 armed police descended on the scene of
the trouble. Contrary to expectations, the recalcitrant Union
die-hards evacuated the premises peacefully, in a move to give
undue publicity to the extraordinary precaution taken by the law-
enforcing agents. This tactics was taken because the die-hards,
having been informed by fellow-travellers of the impending police
action, resigned to their impotence in the face of the overwhelm-
ing police force of which they had been notified minutely.
On the morning of the day when the measure was taken, two Toho
"new faces," Hajime Izu and Miss Hatae Kishi, made their appearance
on the stage of the Toho Movie Hall in Shibuya and proposed to tell
"the truth about the strike". Of course, fractionists posted among
the audience shouted approval. The pair declared before the audi-
ence that "we are fighting not only for the Toho strike but for a
'greater struggle." This despite the fact that the First Cavalry
troop armed with four Sherman tanks and four armored cars was at
the studio for the purpose of aiding the Japanese police, if need
be, in the area under the Occupation, as clarified by Major General
Wiiliam C. Chase, commanding officer.
For

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 760,
December 3, 1948.
- 6 -
For what purpose are these Communists struggling so hard? The
answer is that they are dreaming a fantastic dream - a wild, foolish
dream. Some of them are expecting to become the Motion Picture
Minister "when the October Revolution is accomplished." Rumor was
rampant among them that even if the Toho strike proved a failure,
several leaders among them would be allowed to go to the Soviet
Union to study. Communists and Red sympathizers are talking
enviously about the report that Zembei Saga recently went to Vladi-
vostok for a secret five-day sojourn.
A more fantastic dream concerns the project that striking movie
workers will go to North Korea to establish a motion picture studio
there.
Union Dramatics
Masumi Fujimoto, a leading Toho producer, was called to testify
as witness in a hearing sponsored by the Metropolitan Labor Relations
Board. While spectators watched with bated breath, the witness
spoke for two solid hours on how the Japan Motion Picture and
Theatrical Workers'Union men did things against the interest of the
company in the management-employee council.
Taken aback by the unexpected testimony, Shigeto Yasue, Chief
of the Toho Union's Organization Department, stood up, stared at
Fujimoto and declared:
"Friends! Remember the testimony Fujimoto has just given.
It will remain forever in the annals of the world's labor - as the
testimony of the people's enemy."
The reason why the Communist Farty came to gain so much
influence in Toho was that the Reds had snatched major posts in
the studio's organization. Under the slogan, "good treatment for
artists", they have cajoled actors and actresses into their fold
and forced the company management to pay enormous expenses for
motion pictures suited to their liking.
When filming started, they mobilized fractionists to support
the Red-influenced personnel, while thwarting non-Communist person-
nel by holding meetings under one pretext or another. When Commu-
nist members started working, they gave full support to them
regardless of the time limits.
Under such circumstances, non-Coamunists had little hope for
promotion. Non-Communist players were given only insignificant
roles. This prompted fame-conscious screen workers to join the
Communist Party.
Arch-Opportunist
Tengo Yamada, who was a member of the Army Press Corps during
the war, joined the Communist Party when trade unionism gained
increasing influence and was named a foreman with union recommendation.
When

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 760
December 3, 1948.
- 7 -
When the Toho controversy flared up, he quickly switched his
allegiance to the company and gave ready approval to the management's
mass dismissal plan. Later, he found to his consternation that he
was on the dismissal list for the "management staff". Promptly he
switched his allegiance back to the Communist Party.
Not only actors but cameramen and all workers in other fields
were treated poorly unless they were members of the Communist Party.
On the other hand, a "caste system" was in force among the
party members themselves. Party "executives" were paid allowances
ranging from ¥loo to ¥6oo out of an unknown coffer. While the
general striking employes earned their living painfully by peddling
candies and soap, the higher-ups were apparently so well off that
at one time they bought up all the whisky on sale at a liquor shop
in front of the studio.
During the siege, a "youth action corps" was organized under
the leadership of ex-Captain Kinsaku Toda. They had roll call
every morning and were organized into "defense corps" after the
pattern of the Japanese army, which were trained for "emergency"
and first and second "defense systems". Keeping up the Japanese
army's tradition, squad leaders sometimes beat up the members.
At the cell meeting held on the day when the premises were
evacuated, Fumio Kamei proposed to organize a "One Man One Murder
Blood Alliance Corps". And a group bearing this name was reportedly
organized among the members of the projection department.
Law Ignored
The law is apparently igncred by these elements who make no
scruple of choosing the means for the sake of a revolution. Taking
advantage of the fact that even after the evacuation, union members
were allowed to enter the Toho premises for union activities, these
elements attempted to occupy places of work on the pretext of hold-
ing union meetings. Whereas members of related organizations were
barred from the premises, the Communists led them into the compound
on the pretext of allowing them tc make an "after-fire visit". (A
fire occurred shortly after the evacuation.)
When the anti-Communist "reconstruction faction" set up its
union office in one of the buildings, the Reds deliberately walked
about on the second floor wearing clattering "gea" sandals to annoy
the ground floor occupants with maddening noise. They have resorted
to a number of legal nuisance methods to scuttle the provisional
court order.
Having made a close study of countermeasures ever since the
strike got under way, the Reds are now very clever in juggling
legal stipulations to their advantage. while staying at the place
of work till late in the afternoon in order to get overtime pay
and free supper, they filed a complaint over the employment of
women at night. They also found fault with the alleged fact that
no tax was deducted from the 'trisis allowances". Having been
defeated in the strike, they are now out to wreck the company.
These

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 760
December 3, 1948.
- 8 -
These subversive Communist activities belie all the preten-
tions of the Communist Party as a legally constituted political
party. They are far from the concept of "sound" labor unionism.
Violence and destruction reign supreme.
The reason why such subversive activities have attracted
little public attention is that the Communist Party is secretly
manipulating the fractionists. Fraction elements are steadily
preparing for a revolution behind the scenes.
RISING RIGHTISTS TO BAIT THE COMMUNISTS
By Akira Yamamoto
Making Comeback on Occasion of February-1 Strike
At dawn of August 15, 1945, the day of Japan's surrender, a
group of radicals, parallel with the coup d'etat carried out by
the militant faction of the armed forces, plotted to assassinate
key political leaders, Cabinet Ministers and outstanding figures
in financial circles, such as Chanceller of the Privy Seal Kido,
Premier Suzuki, Navy Minister Yonai, Foreign Minister Togo, Prince
Konoye and Keisuke Okada. Failing in this attempt, the group
consisting of the "Kakumeiso" faction led by Kempo Sai and the
"Sonjo Doshi-kai" nurtured by Yoshio Iijima, all civilian rightists,
committed suicide by hand grenades in Atagoyama in Tokyo.
This was the end of the story concerning the rightist terrorists
who for a long period of 15 years since the Manchurian Incident had
collaborated with the military clique, madly engaged in propelling
militaristic imperialism, terroristic acts, or gruesome plots, as
if there had been no one to be afraid of. In addition, Administra-
tive Ordinance No. 10l (Articles 2 and 4) issued pursuant to the
Potsdam Declaration on February 25, 1946, put an end to all sur-
viving rightist organizations other than those which had been
voluntarily disbanded following the war's end. Groups, large and
small, which were ordered disbanded numbered 17o, the outstanding
of which were: Toa Renmei (Kanji Ishiwara), Genyosha (Mitsuru
Toyama), Kokuryukai (Ryohei Uchida), Kokusui Domei (Ryoichi Sasakawa),
Dai-nippon Sekisei-kai (Kingoro Hashimoto), Kakumeiso (Kenpo Sai),
Dai-Nippon Kinko Doshi-kai (Takio Tsuneoka), Aikyojuku (Kozaburo
Tachibana), Genron Hokokukai (Shigeomi Nomura).
Thus the rightist currents faded into the raging waves of
democracy, although their minor offshoots under the guise of
democracy, engaged actively in legal political movements. But
they too were compelled to go underground after they had been pushed
downstream by leftist influences centering around the labor union
movement

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 760
December 3, 1948.
- 9 -
movement and dealt a crushing defeat in elections. But as the
leftist force began to lose public support following the abortive
February-l strike indicative of their excessive movements, and
gave an indication of declining influence, there popped up a
number of new rightist organizations quite different from those
of the past under the common banner of "anti-Communism" one after
another.
Rising Anti-Communist Rightists
Recently, Ryuzo Asanuma (later identified as Uichi Yamamoto)
vainly attempted to kill Ritsu Ito and Kenji Miyamoto, members of
the Communist Party central committee. Behind this abortive
assassination plot was said to lie the Kyukoku Rissho-to, an
influential rising rightist faction.
With headquarters in Yashima town, Takasaki city, Gumma
prefecture, the party is reported to embrace a membership of
i,Ooo throughout the Kanto district. The prospectus declares
that the party seeks
1. To establish a right religious sect of the Rikken
kyo (Constitutional Sect) in accordance with the new
Constitution and on the basis of Saint Nichiren's
advocacy for "Righteous and Peaceful Country and
Government Religion Accord".
2.
To maintain a government of righteous laws pursuant
to "government by righteous laws" thereby purifying
the political world of evils, preventing vicious isms and
ideology and thus bending efforts to reconstruct the
country and establishing a true Japen,
3.
and contribute, internationally, to universal peace in
accordance with the morality of "All the world will be
converted to the sacred code of 'myoho'".
As is seen clearly, the party is an off-shoot of the Nichiren
sect of Buddhism with a rightist leaning. When it was inaugurated
in October 1946, even Yasutoshi Maki of the Shinei Taishuoto (Crack
Mass Party) which was disbanded in December 1947 attended the
meeting. To organize an underground system, the party was said
to have been contacting anti-Communist groups and other circles
throughout the country.
Party President Fukushi Tsukagoshi, alias Nichifuku, was an
associate of the boss of the "Yorii family", outstanding racketeers
in the Kanto district. Since during the war, Nichifuku has extended
his influence and now is said to be the boss of the entire area of
Takasaki; he is an ex-convict who served prison terms seven times
on charges of outrageous acts and swindle. During the pre-war days,
he was an official of the Gumma chapter of the rightist "Dai-Nippon
Seigi Dan". It was about this time that his violent anti-Communistic
thought was nurtured.
In

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 760,
December 3,1948.
- 10 -
In ordinary times, Nichifuku advocates the Nichiren sect and
occasionally goes on an anti-Communist speech-making tour not only
to neighboring districts but to such distant places as Sendai.
Though double-barreled as a racketeer boss and anti-Communist
leader, Nichifuku must be somebody inasmuch as he successfully
chairmanned the "National Anti-Communist Rally" held for the first
time in Ueno this year. He in addition engages in social welfare
work for tramp urchins and repatriates and naturally his popularity
in the public is not so bad. His party funds are mainly collected
from street-stalls as fees. The party membership includes racke-
teers, gamblers and ex-servicemen.
Behind Terrorists
League Head Tsukagoshi and Secretary General Makoto Sasaki
who were arrested in accordance with Criminal Yamamoto's confes-
sion vehemently denied that they had instigated Yamamoto to make
an attempt at assassination of Communists although they admitted
they had handed a small sword to him. Then why did they hand such
a deadly weapon?
According to Yamamoto's confession, while he had been stay-
ing at the "Saiki Dormitory" managed by Tsukagoshi in Minami town,
Takasaki city, for the period of September 3 to 5, Tsukagoshi
told Yamamoto, "Our party makes it a rule to have each of our
members kill a member of the political department of the Communist
party and since three are already on their way with this mission,
you immediately leave and try to lick Ito." Thus saying, Tsuka-
goshi reportedly handed to Yamamoto a foot-long sword and an
envelope of money. When Yamamoto reached Ueno station on the
morning of September 6, the police were rounding up undesirable
elements there. Therefore he rushed back to Funabashi city, Chiba
prefecture, where he made an overnight stopover. During the night,
Yamamoto got the cold feet and gave up the idea of assassinating
Ito, called on the chairman of the Funabashi chapter of the
Communist party and confided everything to him. Thus the story
went.
Why Yamamoto did not surrender himself to the police instead
of to the Communist party one cannot understand easily. He may
have suspected there was some trick wrought by the Communist
party in the confession story. Aside from the confession, however,
Tsukagoshi, head of the Rissho party, would never hand such a
deadly weapon as a sword to a young man unless he entertained
some design. It cannot be helped if one concludes that there
was some sort of terroristic plot or something of the kind behind
the whole scheme.
Next, the Otsuru youth department of the Japan Anti-Communist
league attempted an assassination of Kyuichi Tokuda, secretary-
general of the Communist party on July 17, by throwing at him a
bottle of syrup filled with dynamite while he was making a speech
in the public auditorium of Saga. Although the attempt was a
flop, Tokuda received 38 minor injuries all over his body result-
ing from broken bits of the bottle.
According to Koga's confession to the Saga district procuratorial
office, his accomplices were Jutoku Haraguchi, 22, Minoru Inaba, 21,
active members of the department, Emio Sunakawa, 30, secretary-
general and Michitsugu Fujii, 39, instructor in charge.
Michitsugu

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despetch No. 760,
December 3, 1948.
- 11 -
Michitsugu Fujii who returned to Japan from Formosa in the
spring of 1947 found a job at the Otsuru coal mine, In collabora-
tion with his comrades, the former corporal of the Japanese army
organized a cultural group named "Shinko Kai (Friendship Club)"
within the colliery and worked for the cultural promotion of the
miners. At that time, practically all the members of the coal
miners' union, with the exception of vice-chairman, were Communists
or leftist worshippers. As a result, the decline of output by
strikes was alarming.
Those who realized, "Unless Communist influences are swept
out of the coal mine, not only the coal mine but Japan's industry
as a whole will be destroyed", flocked around the "Shinko Kai"
in protest against Red influences. It is said that Fujii organized
these fellow miners into the Otsuru chapter of the Japan Anti-
Communist league on January 20 under the banner of "Absolutely
Anti-Communistic".
Based on the principle of only crack members, Fujii almost
hand-picked only 67 members out of the 250 who wished to join his
group. All officers and executives were virtually appointed by
Fujii on his own judgment. The cream of the organization consisted
of:
Yoshinari Furukawa, department head; Takao Sasaki, vice head;
Emio Sunakawa, secretary-general; Yoshiteru Takahashi, head of the
investigation department; Ichiro Koga, publicity chief; Takuro
Haraguchi, liaison officer; Ko sakai, planning chief; foshimitsu
Mogami, entertainment planner; Kameo Hamada, contact man; Michitsugu
Fujii, instructor in charge.
In addition to Tokuda, Shiga, Nozaka and other leading Commu-
nists were said to be on the assassination list, but the anti-
Communist group was ordered disbanded on September 22 on charge
of terrorism and a rightist reactionary tendency.
Intense Anti-Communistic Sentiment in Kyushu
What is the Japan Anti-Communist league, mother organization
of the Otsuru chapter, like?
The principlesof action governing the anti-Communist group
are as follows:
1. To revive the nation's industry through labor-management
collaboration,
2. To create human culture and civilization of a universal
nature,
3. To establish firmly Japanese democracy,
4. To establish equality of opportunity in education,
5. To realize the stabilization of the national livelihood
through the concerted efforte of government and people,
6. To complete the elimination of Communism.
The

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 760
December 3, 1948.
- 12 -
The league was organized in Shaei town, Fukuoka city, in
January this year and headed by Kiyosuke Zashin, former member of
the Genron Doshi Kai. The headquarters under his chairmanship
consists of 46 members. In addition, it maintains a string of 40
chapters throughout the country. Also associated with the league
are the Kikuki Doshi-kai, the Shin Seinen-to, the Genron Doshi-kai,
the youth departments of the Fukuoka chapters of the Domestic party
and the Domestic Liberal party, the Minshu Domei, the Kenkoku Doshi-
kai, the Shinsei Nihon Doshi-kai. They always dispatch members to
the agrarian, coal mining and fishing districts in Kyushu to continue
anti-Communistic struggle.
Anti-Communist Kiku-hata Doshi-kai
On October 29, last year, fearful bills were posted here and
there in Kumamoto city, alarming to the passers-by. On the bills
was conspicuously written, "The Communist party is agitating third
country nations to join the plot to overthrow the train carrying
the Emperor on his itinerary in the Kyushu district. We are valiantly
impeaching the Communist party in the name of the Japanese people."
The sponsors of the shocking bills were the Kiku-hata Doshi-kai,
well known for its Kiku-hata (chrysanthemum flag) ism.
But retorted jointly by the Association of Chinese residents
and the Association of Korean residents and the Communist party on
the spot, the Kiku-hata group hurriedly posted apologetic bills in
a face-losing manner. Though its influence suffered slight damage
on account of this incident, the group still apparently stands out
as the vanguard of the newly-risen rightist movement.
Organized in March, last year, with headquarters in Yokote
town, Kumamoto, which function under the direction of Seishi Fuku-
shima with the secretariat, the central bureau, the investigation
bureau, the labor bureau, and the political bureau, the Kiku-hata
Doshi-kai maintains in provinces committees in Minami-Tama county,
Tokyo prefecture, Hiruta county, Hokkaido, Yonezawa city, Niigata,
Kure city, Hiroshima, Toyoura county and Shimonoseki city, Yamaguchi,
Ehime city, Shikoku, Yatsume county, Fukuoka, Matsuura county,
Nagasaki, and Gora county, Kagoshima.
Patterned after the Communist party, the Doshi-kai maintains
the central committee under which the provincial committees, zonal
committees and cells operate. The central committee consists of
Masayasu Araki and all others with two candidates. Its total
membership is approximately 3,O00; its chairman, Sheishi Fukushima,
once edited the short poems section of the Magazine Kaizo as well
as was a member of the publicity department of the Koa Domei
general headquarters and of the Yokuso headquarters.
What he calls "Kiku-hata ism" stands for:
1. Absolute maintenance of the Emperor system,
2. Complete overthrow of the reactionary communist party,
3. Establishment of an everlasting independent Japan,
4.
Establishment of the firm sponsorship for independent
Japan.
Besides,

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 760
December 3, 1948.
- 13 -
Besides, the group holds as its target the unification of all
the anti-Communist organizations throughout the country.
No. 1 Anti-Communist Representative
Last, let us look at activities of the Kyukoku Seinen Remmei
(National Salvation Youth League) with headquarters in Hanazono
town, Takamatsu city, Shikoku, under the leadership of Masanobu
Oda, member of the Lower House affiliated with the Daiichi Giin
Club.
True to the training given by Ganji Ishihara of the Toa Remmei
while a student of the Bunrika Daigaku (University of Literature
and Sciences), Representative Oda is an ardent anti-Communist.
When Nozaka was delivering a speech in Takamatsu at the time of the
abortive February-l general strike, Oda stood up and refuted Nozaka,
thereby plunging the forum into a complete mess.
The National Salvation Youth League was organized in March,
1946, with Oda as its nucleus and with a small membership of 44.
But the membership jumped to over 3,O00 in 73 chapters not only in
the Shikoku area, Oda's stronghold, but in the rest of the country
including Hokkaido and Shizuoka. The membership covered various
social strata, such as teachers, ex-servicemen, repatriates, and
agrarian youth intelligentsia. There is no denying that the elec-
tion of 26-year-old Oda to the House of Representatives with a
lead of 41,931 votes in the April general election of last year
was due to the intensive campaign carried out by his party members.
Of the newly-risen rightist organizations, the league is a rather
serious group with such able leaders as Keiji Harada, 31, of the
assemblymen of Kagawa prefecture. Its prospectus calls for:
1. Establishment of a country of the highest moral and
cultural order;
2. Establishment of a society devoid of injustice.
It publishes an organ, Kosei Shimbun (Just and Fair News),
which has a circulation of 10,000 and is said to be developing anti-
Communist struggles in concert with the Kiku-hata Doshi-kai.
Stamp Out Terrorism
The number of the rightist organizations, large and small,
replacing the old rightist bodies following the war's end is believed
to amount to 160, and in this article the writer has dealt with the
whole aspect of the outstanding of them all. As has been indicated,
some of them already have resorted to terrorism. Although they are
at liberty to engage in reasonable anti-Communist activities, every
effort should be made to reject under the watchful eye of the people
all terroristic factions such as the Tengu-to (Yuraku town, Chiyoda
ward, Tokyo) which was ordered disbanded on August 22, this year,
for commitments of extortion under the disguise of anti-Communism
or the National Salvation Rissho-to which preaches "Assassination
of one Communist by one member."

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.96)
AALD
TO : NA - Mr. BiBhop
DATE: December 28, 1948
FAR
FROM : NA - Mr. Green N/9
sUBJECT: Attached: Tokyo'B 760
Mr. Spinks analyzes the potential of the ultra-rightist
forces in Japan as follows:
What can be termed the ultra-rightist front today 1s
not a well-organized nationwide movement; and except for
several abortive attempts on Communist leaders' lives, has
not threatened the peace and order of the occupation.  It
includes some of the old rightist elements who have managed
to preserve some degree of corporate identity by participating
in non-political activities, such as poetry societies and
business concerns. A number of postwar rightist organiza-
tions have also re-established the traditional link between
the Japanese underworld (Kuromaku) and ultra-nationalism
FW
through affiliation with racketeers, bosses and black
market operators. But the continued operations of the
Kuromaku which is an ancient, well-established political
form should not be regarded as a sign of ultra-nationalistic
resurgence.
The appearance of an ultra-rightist front presents
two dangers. 1) It will intensify the left-right struggle
and nc matter which group emerges victorious, democracy
loses. 2) Although they are avowed mutual enemies, the
C
left and the right pursue the same conspiratorial and
terroristic methods and have the same contempt for popular
government. In fact so alike are the two totalitarian
extremes that their members seem to move with ease from
one extreme to the other.
The recent spate of criticism of an alleged fascist
2
revival in Japan - most of which is the work of well-known
leftists - strongly suggests that it 1s in part a Communist
diversionist tactic. The criticism follows closely the
increasingly anti-fascist tone which has characterized JCP
propaganda ever since the proposed revision of the National
Public Service Law, curbing strike and fraction activities
in almost half of Japan's organized labor movement.
This despatch well worth reading. Also suggest reading
first three pages of first enclosure.
FE should see before we route it to DCR for reproduction.
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
12/28/48

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.78)
R94.00B/10348
Paxyo.
No. 760
For Deuer _ent Yse Caly.
Jt rese Jonoern cver Com..uist-1 -hi
Co2rli0.
The onor le
T..e eorettry of tet,
ui.t.
1::
I ve sho nor to trt to le to
Rec'd
 e cr tre articles frou  lohe (Jen
Dee 30
eorly of cotobur l, loe concert l  uafst 
il  -ri. ctist ectivilics in Jupen. Lcse trssl tlons
ACTION
wore l: by dhe Roxusui ro.s cd diuse ins ed in the
FE
dove bor 4, 5 una 6, 1see louss or  eviy.
Ls  lh crnslon orviou ai.
IMFO
DCR
The artiale on ". ructional .otlvicios of
ovoluvioalsts," prep red by tue eil oriel lorart it
FUR
of ipsos huho, is ins icetive of crovia  rehenelon
OLI
tovers te sovert, ubversive aotivitles f tlo
Jejahuse cuaunints, ite artlcle en ue or. to e sce
She coi unist frr uticn tieinl ue vt ret, it io orciele
for a sll oormunit rou to . ani  to loaacrsl i
 sh s throv a cintry into oheos an. acstroy ite
ecoaote structere.
Ea vuis conm.ccvion, L. o articlo
noe l sncern  e rol:liv e orrcr
o re oorr poli  a rooed
of   o r  n
      of
otin u ie     aist
strike tactios tt e wo e mstion le ure t lio, o
sorlcus lepute  i befole los tin sot.lemout
ro uir s pelico int cve ition on un un receie tel scelo.
Confidential Fi
It. e porcrrcl ir tion osinctin tre Joptn oren cai
ot e crs Cniou, tre colo etrie t ionly
   l cnol l en un
c. Le. lono
FILED
action Copoy.

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.72)
l seasnd trtile in te Od
 no poncorne the itru-rlhib
a ount ar tc rin tionl, termrist aatvitl
lst overt sfort of ts tru-ri ttiets to rein
onto fo, tsl to Y moto, ty Jor t
oc under rsund oy te ne lortlat ov cot vklon
ollaon Jn' cofee. te vritor tuct acrim
!.o fuiutl reui ceiinue oi i ntt. ii httet froet vnion
ia Lc vin. ru rosonts u lini of ruectlon to lofulst
xceusc liu cln in the uburtive re -ury 1 er
strine or 1947. Uncer n luti-oo Junict bunr. ti
ost.ur xi. hticts c u .tteatlas to rceotu'list ueir
lscsullsos position. sa or ult ati-cor.unlue
rou ave ulrdy roortoa to terroris iu tts
o tsinte . LI.I ktou.I..tr.rou or
no lontl con ree of nlustrlul Union, n
scrctory oruf .. yuio of e Jun coun
rurty. ore iuocatls un ullsod plot se lvcogered
 osincte . Iiu itu ca .. Jy  renji.
: i  cuni coicn. ot ni-oa unie
: clivity by or zrizeu rouro les luicn l: se in : yuztu
her. tie rhiotpal r st inflaonti 1 r nlz: lice,
Lu  2 .  ic 1.i 
 . in.
l t  l  
  L J.,      ly
sli  rai   . to r t  
co unlst orasizeliono Lvu  lo itii.ce in
J:pcoo politie, he polate o v. u io.  r or
verrorlet rou wtih  cati-so. un  over
or tclr ille sl eotiviti.
It is sirricult to cacesm vccurstl t rrsent
icrtenco ci tue lu-ri tiet front  J  
 no it rutuo  lioc sion. nt  n
 lt  lllio ,  
 oocrt, le ul or nie ciona (tavi to lli.r.
,       
  :l .
28心

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.79)
3
yours of Lat
boliefu und turhou tu-libomss am
un tue ctker l.ard, .ure is listle 
lou pre-uurrouder ri rtist front has one
in this ueuslly secepted manine as we tomk
in nca-politiosl motivities.  lasereatins 
o porticiputod in thu affelrs of a Larro mubes 
i utlst sooielios. Totay re tooe a clu: uvoted to.
e cu. position ar poo. whiet zro him y-dls ule
rors ude om teielf or nstionelis and t e end 
iny o: bere of the oluu vore for_crly cezosluten sten
 oyu in sctrlotlo sooiuty motivity, ini turoirt
i. ur in uslication liu peepent croup  rozorvee wu
urc essooiutlons und roitlousliirs o Ite eubess.
Trorc cre aleo exolplom of richtlst ele eats
recurvin their tru-curreior asmoeintions by the
0. unizu lon of bicinecs conoerns, ospeol lly ooutrcat-
i. ir..s. .e Jinoht Gui, & constructlon oo... uny
 tyin. l oll k olo  tl
t..ou. iununu, osi iu. lly u oo unlst, liler b.o..
a cooi  lii the ultra-ri htiut u. unt.
llhouh cll ultrc-ri. ntist end. llit slstl
o.-uizutions vro cboliuwd et tte be inin or the
Croupttion, it hss buun nocossury to orier lio slasx culng
or severcl  outucr crou:e suoh as the hinel tlaty to
lit . u rerty),  .er of whiol td to
l.ssasoinaco li. ikunuil.  pu bel or ooler rlltisi
ni l..izationd lloo e) etr to htvo rcostiblisici tie  rowur
iint eticen lie J.penose undom:orld cu: ltru-n tionelia.
t..rc. I wirili.tion  ith loual oyebun (b ssoo), rhokotcors,
ceiblere, snd bleocrsct oparators.
t prose.t, lowover, sit ot ho oulio  ir
ri Ltist frat is pot  ell-or::nlzod, a tionlde
wo. int. It ahould not je coif wtd. Ilt we zo-o.llod
kuro;  bebimd-t. oscene anipulction, iot lo
K ogidcnt in Jaranese olstles and bict he lud to a
nuts'r or soundrle aricatin the lejor politio 1 partieu.
2210

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.62)
2
 i c
nion
!.
d     l 
 t colut  rot to   l. It
    . l 
i tln  
ilt rn
cnovo
.i o.uni
1 -ri t re .  i lc oll loo-toso io nl
vr l r olitle.
    1 
   l  (
 )o ..
.l  .
1.30
lotiv
1: i1
 ln  o  lont ri nis rvi
 e ll t     
iznirc
ontn J.
r ru e
12

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.74)
point
our.. lo ror yower. th me. 
cer c vlotorou, L lt ls   
tot lit.ian ri invitnbly coes to po 
or rul  om. ho lo tt  i
ut  o f c  l l  
 ccao 1o li iju.ns.
the other wltliste n or to Jupen l 
itre lert sci xtre ri ht.he systes.lc 
ia .iny ot Wio ultrt-ri tlot : rou . ute t
oloi. ou ve a.t for sooar le, rrll nr
. rogos I 'oor ent; soti. jcvo tio L.:tentlon or
dr.: liu. lly wodiry la or sotroyia: v oltl lstle
sy. efore tre r t vo cut usul to rind for
co. uniotu :atlvu in lor-ri ttet ov: sato, ci ir
s. . enonon n etill  obtorved.conversol..
l  .u so  ro f.l
ussoci. lud ita allli llutio a: n tion listio sctivity
or.Iu re roc.sionl  iisr l t.. .r.y. 1o
u:out tsc Itn liot indivilula in dujor ive uc
cont love to wovo Iros. wnt ortri  to tru stlcr is surial
uvlienme or Lot ooutmrutlucly ulose in rs lity Lu tro
tol.lis:rics eatre  v to oot otcr. n lu 
 liat butm ste to cxe  tonds lo otcoure ..e
sl.llsi  ir nd r ul1 .
jut la rutlity tre uitru a left u! t. c oxtre rl it
t  on 8n to  J.
out Jtv .oar t befairly ou izet of o
si..llcritics whies. r..ot.rize le to olitic.1 cxtres
in ti clr ooatrg, cal, eiocyt ion too J:  s lsfiit.
tior .t. scou fer los to uncy Io J: E. L olo: cro
to lntlrs cu.1:ith c: y t o 
I sela zu t.u only totulitsrius .cmcoc. In te uve:.r
 i     n 
   t ur r  ll  
si mifioust ootrison:
In

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.70)
tot.liri. in oulorim
La  lolnt otu to cp l r
1 to i lx 
p ion  t.t rloi. le future  e otr
tr-1 tles rrot is J. s ust thorfore  oone
i i in  11 it I J: i cccho ie cstion.
iu:is st ility v 1.1 rovo uhe pst f::  ve berrbo
 Ilr f it foi on cooi in  n
t  liov10 er,  te
ubliol
12.9
.
Ln ts
s
111.18
1i
ciy
1. rt- i votlviulcs i Je.
1  crlo
liail:
1. 1: 1.
it
  in   so ri 
fli fc
in t  tI co.itt.. en. It is ver llis.
llo
 ls  lr  t
ii  t   uie ed roviv l ofitsolpu. an
istcc llutevolevo
ultrue

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.77)
Pokio
eceaborS,
-7-
iltre-ri htlst movc ent, coutinou with tho aoauasln b
ttor't on r. orud, us ivon the pawnlets  plaunttlo
Jasis for  uon i dlver lonuiy effort.
despcotfully urs.
 C 1
    o 

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.83)
( DIl', ili.s ith toe intoumirsim 
17
0 Iciger are toopic telking obout a Cali ar cut a cold
ar ls nch beinm waged witnin tize lator mevemont of luis country
tetree: the Comunist frectionists aisinu it & :olsnevik revolu-
tlon (rd the forces witnin eldeavoring to check ther.
th tim interastionl situstion grosint tese, fractiunal
uctivitien sre intensifying and runnint wild in the direction
struigit zt a revolution. Tue followinc sseks to sive & victure
of this situatiou.
"Lele " y erd
man one beard of te Comst slogan: "Capture 1,000,000
Lemter: by tecouine lovable Commualste," cns would weve thourut
that the laomanists had become demeuratamed in a pustwar sorld.
I the report of teceral cheng Cmum, former rresijant of the
increr sed 17 am 80,000 to 300.000 a0: the 1obor unions under the
cornre: of the Compmmset perty teasted of 1, G00, C00 ce:berr.
rassure of are lifosgtderos tf the tmslation the intluence
of the Comminist rorty bbe groutly caland in cower.
but a stret af 300,000  0ople of 80,000,000 1s
not such s consce. sae tdnt trms ts beslly wsnouing tse laving
of the people vith torrific streastn is the frcctionel activities
of the Co munist terty. hs their frtstionel fctivities bad hocome
too notorlous amcme the utlsc, the perty st seeir slatm sosyese

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.81)
ystcrlous "tructicm: from  V
As 1f to suggest tuis, surly la Jem tte yea 
Leacue c1 the Loveromemt rsilways orkere" Unien ciriml
off siyins it lam abeer "fstriesticmt.: bme slleged tasttmatt
:eres
.. . instiuetions to lo uriste bsd
letweer different stegess.
Llocurtge scitetiuns culcul.ted lo increrse friction
tti;
3. ork on foreiga envoy.
-y tise cons notional salotage al scup d'etat will
b: coused.
jutics ia stete :nd Coveracent
1. jl n with inslul ,eo: ic xit in t
countrs Ly evury ecns
2. .ork cn lailucitial crsims;
3. Insts iti titetiens clust te vover. ent.
utie   iu c
1. irime wlout a lzilscye strike ci sup ort it;
2. .ut railroude  la isid os ut cs co iiesion.;
 y crfort to Jisrut trzspwtich ind
coition
4. Inturfcie iti su rlics ei ccii:ls iuto citiss;
-reate & stete of :ublic fincrce cir/icultiess
2200

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.88)
horth ore should 
iven if & revolatied
pal (zutonoaous)
begun woring wih
their fold. ime
is a relstively mesk
At tere snould arme a
if the police foree
low trevellers.
Lymm trefsle and industry. wore is
a leftist rn
the studio.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.81)
deplsreu thet le mould lead tse
100,000 (onturists.
of capann' snd on cy Fes "louth of the lumd, arime.
flame (i a rovolutiun." In t ese politlosl slogens timt
asted o reve..ution.
rest of xeint iras
 3 sta ye mere the studlo ts loested is tno rirros
con titucncy cnd yuichi lo udt, s er tery-ge. er: l, is e selrem
live frt tt ceistitue cy, the success or failure or we stri
was tount lc : ffcct his clection chenées the xt tire. Thus ho
reilicu  is  trt, ca lcr u: icis ndes  crty le:deisnip in 
corc. rte ott: ck cr the tcho mt nsge...ent.
ncr & sirikt sot oor wes, tcleucle cc. iccticn otop:d
ill ci : suucen in the ovis studio, rail Jelivery ies delayed tnd
the 1it cit's lons were c.:cled to tr stri fiu et: lcjes frm
telejlicm o. crutcis limmerimm  ith the tclepmnc . ire. ll trose
"isc ieis erc dour by e'licuicts of tix aticrul co. iur.lustiomp
or: ers' jnicr.
he ovrcnt eiltiy orkers Unionf et.ilt, roclci co
non-cco. -r tio.. itn te ior cticn . icture to.ij iiu: ti tened
intcrfero.o. vit: loettin :clivitiea. ine i cirie I.dustr
or rers' nicn ( mieo) Joinod the muiscnce v it ! tiretteu
ing to stoy the tIcetrie ourrout unless the man : cnt resci.dod
its uis issol ozdcr.
Ine stion : icture, "hoaco no utoko" (. in u lc. e, is 
rope tnn: il: cf te dovermmett silwey orkers' ior. lic..1-
colly enounh, uno scrift of tnis pictere wis tr: is.et ts "no cood"
ty the : mu.ist ir: tlonists t:mmeclves.
.c)1.t riters' meotirus for rovisim tis sclisrio verc reld
trequeitl at sn teui imm, incurrims enoracus cy enses Lcicrt
even s fost ci film las shot. srose who itter cd t. usc weetinus
wert all osmunlsp s tuat wie conrererses Lec: ir: ctien(ct-
ings - cll et the os .
.he cst vicious wctiorsl pctivitios cre cerrle: cut ly
Cumittee fu Ycsuide tmd lede of the etropc iter belcs eluticus
Ipard dur iny tie sdtetion el orts mede late on the litut of
upust s. ickist aivratoage of their privileces is tcird e bers,
the pair ruliilled their duty is cornanist woulers to tis fullest
extert.
i000

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.85)
Enslosure to Tokyo?e
Dopatou No. fe
Dove: bor 2, 1940.
her 150 members of the anti-Co cunist Des ccratimatlon Clut
Leber heletions Loerd stepped in to mediate but the Union members
rescrted to  delaying tectics sithholding their reply till 3:30
he the Loard medlators proposcd that the senocratization
Clut mer itadram, the latter rofused to comply with the sugges-
tion.  en cerd menter ade gave his word that he would see to
it thst the cs eged Union wen vcuid be evicted fro- the premises
of the studi: "even wita the  id of the procurstors." Inus essured,
the clut let ers consented tr withulren fron ths prenises. esuichi
Ito roceede foxwird to cortect iue (lub  en waiting for crdere.
hes he preceeded to tudie  o. E, sose 30 pocters of the
"Deferse (orp of the Conpunist  ccth rerty" prus ked forth ond
encirele ni subecquentiy kooektns  im sown n the conerete
floor. he  ffens klcked  nd beat ris ond fi wing Ito bleeding,
laey tor ai t the medie1 trcat ent roon.
-es tte the bhoody incid nt, the Club ea stndiew in compli-
anee ith the co ro me.be st sugaestion. en  rolio ine : crning,
the clut en pund the Union menters still bes  ging the presises
and rcte stce to the Loerd euber,  a. th ster, however.
cel.iy co nter d the rotest sith e sonohe lent steter ent twt the
Unios meu he reseo to set out cr the stadie.
oreover, . eda ned aavised the Chief  tme -sijo : clice
otation t relire eivine him the sssurarce toss there would te no
troutle et mlglt it is evidect rom trese  mivitiss thet .r.
vado, des ite e mlesion ts  loore ceddasor ia ail se cculd to
kelp the sion ren in conjunetion . iin the fronists.
un wagust 19, o0o er ellce dascended en the scel of
the troubte. contrary to ixp metotions, tue ree loitr nt 0 ion
die-nards evacusted ths precisss eacetalty, in o eve to eive
undue put licity to the ex eoalry precatlon t ker. by the la
enforeine egents. lnis tecti tas tosen beu uss  e die-aerds,
heving tsn informed by zello etrevellers of vho i pyrding  olice
tion, tusl mee to their iupotcace in the t co or the over he lm-
ing polies force of wnich they mad lcen rtireo mitotcly.
on t e coeninn of the doy wen the meesure was tasen, twe lone
"new focesy" Hsjime Izu cnd  ass Hovae isiud, Lade their op:ezrance
on the store of the toht ovl ols in Sotouye ano pro osed to tell
"the trutn about she strike" Cf couree, Prentvomtists  osted swong
the sudience snouted e, rovel ihe peir declerod tefere the sudi-
ence toat "ue sre figntin ot onty Poe the Tone purine Sut for a
troor aroed witn four her an taruss cnd four ar oree cors was at
the studi for the  urpose of cidins the sapansse yolice, if need
be, in t pras under the tccupetion, es clarlf ed ty ajor teneral
biilda
Che se, co.cnoins cfricer.
Lor

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.75)
vostcs. for i seeret rive-dry sojcrm
oiners wil r lo ortn cores to estetilsl  rtlim
tiore.
Vuion Tatice
tsus ruji ctc, a lecia louo prcaccer, us celled to
t .itrcs in i iiut : cnscri ty te ctrepclitem sotos
spoke ior tic solid hcurs cn ti tie on.etion icte d
iatricel or ers'ion en. dir thirgs ttrinst tne inrest of
cur pris in lce mtnote.ert-c: ltyoocruneil.
to. tocs by the unex, ccted teatincm, sto Jsue, thier
or tite fonc union's orraniz: tion Depcrtment, stood up, starcu 
ujLcto sad declaredi
risnds: ac. ter lie t sti cny lli: ct l: just in
it ii rciti forrver in tie tnnala of the . orlu's it tor - cs tie
testi:    roo, l's."
lc r cu y t  . st ia  it i. c
iilue ce in lom us taet t cds a sratu r ts in
the 'st dic's creenizet,on. vuder tmm sloc:, ": ou trcit eat for
iitists", they luave ecjilcd tctors urd ictrtsocs inte t leir fold
ird lorced tiu costiy. Liwe .ort to les enc us :x lscs for
sotion , ictcs suited to tic ir i1 int.
non filnim storted, tcy  clilized Ir ti vists to s, ort
t: i-iriucnced oscnel, iic im(o it rson
nel L clc cetlis 'er onerstet t. e.. o
nist  ulers texted wcrai, vs cove rus  ct to 1
resirdies: of t.w tlau il: its.
nder such cirousstaces, on. rlst  little  for
ire ction. cn-Commmist plajers more ive  iisi iiiic.t
icles.  ia retee r c-e:rscicus .crcer  e. te juin the
Co.ulist ssrty.
 o.  t  to r  .   di
   ist a t i
incsesl inflcerce ts  cc: oren ita ton recc ion.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.74)
 theis
ot o r    
un  cthes , "sc c"  in so 
ins  so, te ier-up were a trertiy so ll o
t cs tire ney toyut  ll the hisky cn zale at  li 
il. runt i tc studio.
tue se  ic se t fo e 
Iirs d scccin "deiense sstotis.ce: i  lhe ran
:'s treltlo uod ltrs sotlnesost a li wecber.
t s coll eotlue l on l dy  te sises ore
t,o  i psed to oi v ur
lcc iloce corys". ind : roup leerin ir.is utme ws roportely
c1,i izcd : cn. tre . c: le:s oi tiue  rojectiou de, rrast.
the lan is en:trentis i ncrce ty Wicss ie ents ho moke no
seru le I ciccsiis tLo san lor vie soxe sI c volution. irking
Luvr tor cf t. fict t. et evei. after lie cvi euclin, ic.. er'te.
cre zllo. en to enter the soso pre isus lo nion tctiv.lies, tin 
le. ents itte: ted to cec.igy lecos cf it on tae reluyl cf hol i-
int nirn eetines. hercer c tars of rclcteo rel. lzillons were
torred frcn tze ;retices, tnc lo muuists leu te: ii.to tue com ound
onu the Ircicyt cl (llonim one to ake i1.  Itci-liie v:sit". (..
rire vecurred siorti) ufter lnc cveculriu.)
nen te etilo lot "root struc n uti" cat ur its
inton office in che r t tuil ia, wevus lilett iy ld
L ut on tne sceond floor icoriw clitterisl "e" rouls to uoy
the round floor betuiints ilth sod zin cisc. hey have lcsor ted
i: : puccor of letel uniusrce :ethods lo scuttle t.e provisiorel
ccurt orcer.
 e cluur atpcy c counter l 2 ince 
sthe ot ier y,   e no w lever  u li
Ic1 iuiti to tr  I to. e u  e
ino frer super, they riic : cos loint ov te cploy cit of
n alut.  lso de fult sita the cllce s th
no ts ws deductenro te trisis clic :Ices". vine Leen
des: tcd i. tie viric, tiey cre .cu out to rock tt sopod.
山

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.76)
Daape to
These subvorsive vomzu. ist activities telic lt the ps
Viclence end destruction reign supreme.
Ihe reason why such sulvereive zetiviti's neve attraeted
little putlic attention is tret the Cormunist rerty is seererly
marilulitin the fractionists. Frection elements sre steadily
preperinm for a revolution be.lind tnc scenes.
:J1
ykire Yet
tst  d  ed
eroup c ics arelisl  coup
 ce ried cut by
the millert faotien or uhe sr serce
 csest
key pollcol losoers, Lobo ltars
feures
in fer le, uh   ler
iide
rreler k, evy ster Y
1cince
le Ckedoli
ty the roup
onsist uf the "r arase iso" feeton les 
ithe
"onje ssh ke " nurturce b, so io Iijame.
vitr sa ists.
cosnitt sleice t cand re s in te
tha wes te erd or the story acenin
tist telrorists
whe lor  lo , erico of l ears since the
colbotei e r che, m lin
militer tie reriellet, te rristie tetes    ce lote, es
if there hed bee. no one to de af id cf i  itio u iistre
tive crilnence no. l01 (artieles  tnd 4) sosune u snént to the
ctsaom ucleration on february r. 1oaó,  cn nd do ala  ur
vivim.  htist crgenizetionr ether tw vie whie. ned been
volunte ily aistended follosm ue var's end crou, loree sd
amsll, mioth were crdered disbended pasbored re, the cusstenmins
of snten .erer les teomel (rueji Ishiwera), torroshs ( itsord
bel-ap n scicei-hel (u do asi cto),  ci s taenpo sel),
Dul- ip on  lnke Dosnl-kei (ekio Isoneoke), iye mxt I ozsturo
It cuibens), sorron  oeokukrt (oni, eomi pomure)
Thus the rightist currents f ed into the rogine toves :f
decocrae, cltmuuge tusix nincr of sacots unoer he guise or
der.core ey, en zeed cotive ly in lerel politictl povements. lut
the: to were compelled to to on erground after tuey sed beer. pushed
covisir n y laftist influel.ces centeriny arcund the letor union
neverent

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.70)
of tie rst iier tae car on beiuer o Pant
enr.tuer.
certl), uzo se (ltter i.tirlel 
vi in. tt: ptc. to ill. itou to nu.trji iyato o
.c ci t ty ntrl co itc. ll tis 
oct t  lot les s1 to le the juhokulusicto 
 d ntict ion.
tre n  t
 ta ty is r ort to e r  moro 
i,   t te nto istrict. ine ros eetis duulare
1. lo estctiish & ri, nt religicus s ct of le :lnken
c (constitutici1  ct) i cccid:rce it tile 
cor stitaticu in c tie Lasls 1 -tint ic irer.'s
foi
oveilont rl io coro".
oenti  luru
vrnt  tous la ri 
tac pulitierl crl ci evils, rv. ci. vi lcas isns and
idcclos rmt tme .cin. effor tu to it sonstruct tue
ccuntry ad cstet1lih. 2 truc . t,
3.  corilute, tioc. c in
rcerdreiti1.
11.111 t€
(verted te t ai cic. ccde ir
suctdi  rist loun.it  ited
in  , co sutost  f to1. t lto  rick
i:ia  iu woce l  l.. the
 . r 
to ve ter costctin tntivo.lusist u  tiel circics
  .
1 to istie. l  r t  ici  x. ded
is . i no ls i t  tx L to enic ae r
s i ie le an exoconvlct  merved risnn ter as sove ties
o c es r cutrsus te akin ludle. uir tue re-r ds,
is  ir ofileiel :f to van aptor of te ri htist "sei-. fer
s:igi en". it wts obut tais li e tict lis vicleit cuti-lci.. cnistic
t. cu  ed.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.83)
enu irnobnod
in the puclic 1s rot so d. n 
trers, fumolors sud ez-aerviesmen.
tonind lerrerista
ti :t empt at csstssirstion of ce.manists ilthouch
 deoay . prou?
:rty nd since three sre alresd on tneir uay ath tuls =ission
yru i..edi: tels lorve snd try to Jack Ito." Thus siying, 1muke-
cosni reportedly wended to limemcto e foet-lor: svord im en
Fivelo, e of ciny. gou lomeroto rec oned licio ststion on tho
cornirt of ccptan.ber 6, thc police were rodins up umesiratle.
eleitnts tuere. Therefare he rusked bocs to Furalauni sity, Caibe
pieltcure,  nere e mde an cveruius stopoves. rix l iit
itrwwnto got the cokd feet und save up the ides of a sossin ting
Ito, colled on tha cheir an of the sumolashi chepter of tas
Coxmunist scrty snd conrided  verytuim to his. Inus toe story
Leat.
ny ramenoto did not surrender hiuselr to the , cliee iastoed
of to the communiat tarty one cunnot understand ersily. He may
heve suspected there wes sote trick wrourht by the Cosmmniet
terty in the confeesion story. side frou the corfessien, mowever,
Isukt osai, heed of t iosho :urty, wouls nover mm such
derdly :et on os è sword to " yount ran unless m eniertrined
soze clesign. it ecmpet te ielpod I one ccsicluces tiet tuere
wis sove sort of terreristau plot or sa etning of tre kind belsind
tiuc khule scher e.
ext, t: utsurm ceth departweat of Lhe Jopeln uti-Couauniut
league sttcted au eesessilion of uquicui lokudu, sceretary-
fecerul cf ths coomunist ursy on duly 17, Ly lisrosing at hima
bottle cf syru rilled ith dnaite walle de ves wcklm & sgeeen
in the  utlic ilditoriu if sese. aithcugh the mtteupt was a
flor. 0.uds received 38 ciner injuries cll cves ris tody result-
int ircn trcken kits of the bottlo.
cordin to ose's clafcasiou to the ege district trouurétorial
Butive. le bers of the de art ent, 1o unakows, 30, ceretery
guer n1  icaitougu Puji1, 39, instrustor in charge.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.66)
i ton,th  
  tclor.res
.
ri n c
  t   
:n ciese ly
,crerer fccitcru
1.
i in .
1ti to ou no rin
niss sre i to lo cn the csscooisctlen list,  t futi
 i 
of tt rcris :i a rihtist re: ctiomrs teice
. t io ,o
of tro . suru chuptor, like?
rsorvin o  the
10 r.vo lo ac:' indts l.... l. - . cnt
culticn,
ic cre to ttn culture :nd civiliz: tlcn ci a cnivess1
1
tlin fi .
o racllze thc stalillztic, of the u: tionl iivellisood
tu vocerted srnte of overment cns coro
 coricte t eli lixtion ar comunis.
1

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.72)
naples tnrcurhout tin country. also ssuéele
ai, t: irssi ihon woshi-cai. shcy elways dispsteh me
the cl inine n riohlue distrlcte in yu 
stle.
!i.€
 the  the
:r.
 ttot o overtodic trin 
172
.c. u x yus .  
ip in the me   
21
e stoc:iLill lere tueunee Doshikol
u .iku-ot (enryget lean l isa.
 Jeincly ty the ssccialion li ese residonts
c fpre resldets e istr on
tae s e, te ri v-he ta group turriedly  ostei upcloaetic iills in
 rer.cu its iuilutnce surfereulight dawg
ou ut i : is incicent, tht roup still p./ re. tly toido out
es i v: lt of the newly-I isen rientist ovemen.
 ron, last e, vith d vrte i Yorcte
to . sarto uich fu ction ut der tae dirertzon t eishi Fuu
忠:12：
r coriut,he contral tc trevestirtion
te l e  t. o tic1 , tint
i ns innvinecs ooristees latci counts
3
i ,our co . ,h,
 oune  sur cuty
∴ : :
el :el the.o unlst r, to cai.i iotoins
te cI cos ittes er. icr the cvi: I co.lttecs, zonl
co.. en i nn rells orerste. ihe centrrl c ittec cunsists of
s  ctrer vi to canits totel
s rte  ts c  rku
1.11:€
once d d the srort poms section of the c:aine aizo cs well
  the pll iy deper t   e ome
 o or Yoso 
s iktisds f
tsclite sisleance cs the rperor s sten,
cle overtir of ine roactly counist perty,
tillsment of I. everlesting inafpendert Jopen,
s isumelit of mhe fir sponsorshir for independent
Lesides,

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.74)
Icst, let us loa it rotivitles of the
(inti :al (lv: ticu soutn Leegue) witm a
to, . itsu city, nlku, uw  l
1u6。
ilu  st. dent cf the unrike Det, aku (uuiversit ot it
ct rtiv tctrusry-1 cnerel strike, cde stocl u emi refuted
t.ret, lul ine vue lora into  cos, lete ess.
 ticcl alvetion uth Lesgue wi realized in
ly,th (de s its nucleus e ith a sucll me tership c 
Lut t entership juped to over 3,Ju0 in 73 c tors ot cni 
th. i a ira, cde' stron.old, but in the Ist f the coun
i. lue lim cik: lc : nu uliuche. lhe zeaters ii stveres voricn
soclil stri vi, sucu rs tocc.ors, ex-servi cc. ei., rc , tri tes, und
itliri: . ylutu ltclligentsio.  ihere is no dens iue lst tue ileo
ti o: syeer-old cde to lhe cuse of representotives vit 
lo. f 1,l votes io the pril tetert) iicctic.. cf list jeer
ii: due ti e intenslve ci: i1,n carried cut t n1 ltity  cters.
if lie leiy-rise iiiatist crcinizzticue, lnt ict: uc is i rrther
srriousrull! it, suià etlc ic: ceis ts : ci : it, 31,  ire
I st. L-y cn ci vu: aus prelecture. Its pros ccls ilin for:
stin coun
cultur:1 order;
stat is eut os  coulcty devois  s tive.
(i
n:ti. r 10 io ulo 
co unist ro les in cncert itu le iu t. .i-ket.
er cf the it rtizti ii
re te ud riutist rdiee follein cd  llicve
to to 1 tsticle teritthe
ltt.
sle ive serted to terre. i
.ey :re
f  its ic  t
c the util lvtic : issno-te c  es "si.tion
iIne ort  c.l."

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.91)
INÇOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRA
EshNA
12000
FE
AIRGRAL..
3027
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
Dated:
December 7, 1948
Date f
mailing:
December El, 1948
ROST.LOTED
ACTJON:FE
Dec. 17,23 7 p.m.
[NFC:
Rec'd:
DC/F
SA/1
CUR X
Seerctary or stabe,
DC/
894.00B/12
ITE
lashington.
OLI
CIA
1-243, D00c ber 7, 1948.
POS
AAN
According to yress reports r. JOBi.SHI Kazuyoshi,
Chalruen of the Jentrsl Executive Committee of the
Jutionel Congres. of Industrial Unions, formally joined
the Japan Communist Party on December 6, 1948.
r. hobas i announcel that he will run for the Die as
2-748
a connniet party cendidate from Tokyo in the comirng
generul electionn,
Since its oreorization bir. Dobashi has headed the
All Japan Jommuntcation Workere Union whieh has been
Ine or the mons comm mist dominated of the member
R
unions of the Natioral Congress of Industrial Unions.
An addition ir. Dobeshi has been eleoted chairman of
The NolU six timee. Virtually every labor offensive
in the past to years has fourd the Comaunication
894
"orkers Unien under Dobashi's leadershlp in the fors
front of the strite. This Headuuerters hes lone been
convinced thet P. Dobashi is a seoret coamunist party
nember and it is believed that his present "joining"
of the purty in a formal overt manner is merely for
political purposes in conneotion wish his ennounced
MAR
Gandadacy Por the Diet.
FILED
1
Mr. Dobashi
9
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.93)
A-242, December 7, 1048.
USTRICTED
-2-
ir. obashi and the Communication orkor Union
ooperatin olosely vith the Japan Communist Party
:eve peen exceptlonally votive in wa ing a campaign
celnst revision of the National rublio Service Law.
r. Doteshl's ectlon in formally joining the
apn Jo unist lerty perallols the caso of ur. KIkUA.I
cts i. in tic fali of 1s47 r. Kikunami resigned
i: he d of he Natlensl Jongress of Industrial Unlona
n r le to Join the Conmunlst Party. Mr. Dobashi,
o, retine is position es Chairren of the National
orss rri xecubive Committea.
SLD
00

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.89)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATEDIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH
ANE
Protition
AIRGRAL
Office of
R
302F
1943
BN
FROL:
USPOLAD Tokyo
tate
ACTION: FE
Datedl:
December 10, 1948
INFO:
DC/R
SA/M
Date of
EUR/X
RASTRJOTTD
Lalling:
December 10, 1948
DC/L
I1P
Rec'a:
Dec. 17, 2:37 p.m.
OLI
CIA
liw
P
PC
Secretory of Stute,
AAJ
deshing con.
mirs
A-244, De0er 30r 10, 1948.
894
94.00B/12-
Referenee this  ission'a A 34 of December 7,
1948
r. DoBASu Kazuvosni wue Incorreetly reported
XR
as being clected nix times chairman of the National
Congrese of Industrlul Unlons. r. Dobeshi has held
894150.43
no officicl positiou in the Ne tional Congress of
Industrial Unions but is head of the ill-Japan C.n-
unicution orkers Union, as also reported in -212.
ho
SEBALD
1048
MAR 1
FILED
H
200
PERMANENSRECORD:COPY-This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
TO
NA - Mr. Bishop
DATE: December
NA - Mr. Lory
FROM :
Communism in Japan.
SUBJECT:
Since the days when I was teaching at the Hokkaido
Imperial University and some of my students were arrested
for becoming infected with the Communist virus I have been
e
extremely interested in following (but not sympathetieally)
the course of Communism and radical movements within Japan.
Because of Hokkaido's proximity to Russian Sakhal
and Vladivostok, 1t was for several years before the wao
on the receiving end of perhaps more Communist propagande
B
than any other area in Japan proper. In my opinion,to
gether with other factors, much of the Communist strength
among students and certain labor circles in Hokkaido in
2
the late twenties and early thirties can be attributed tb
-1548
Hokkaido's geographical position. In view of this
Hokkaido today should be considered a valuable listening
post for detecting Communist infiltration into northern
Japan.
Writing in 1943 with this Hokkaido background, I was
denounced by the Communist publication "New Masses" for
stating that the economic program of the Communists was
similar to that of the extreme militarists in that they
both wanted to soak the rich and nationalize Japan's
industries.
In the light of the importance of following closely
today the Communist menace in Japan, I woula like to sug-
gest that NA prepare a bi-weekly or at some other interval,
a summary and analysis of Communist activities in Japan.
The material for this summary could be obtained from tele-
grams, airgrams, despatches, bulletins, etc. I would be
pleased to have your vomments regarding this suggestion.

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.94)
C-7.
A HEVIEW OF COMMUNISN IN JAPAN
FW. F94,0CB
"illis Lory
Division of Yortheast Aslen Affeire
12-1548
Yaroh 25, 1949
SECRET FILE
50

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.92)
A REVIEW OF COMBUNISN IN JAPAN
Table of Contents
Pasa
Politioal Review 1921 - September 1945
1
Politioal Review Cotober l945 to the Present
6
Japan Communist Party Fohools
17
Postwar Communist Aotivities in Labor
19
Postwer Communist Youth Organixations
26
Postwar Communiet Activitiem Among Farmers
29
Postwar Communist Activities Among Japanese omen
32
Poetwar Communist Activities in the Press
38
Postwar Communist totivities in the Thester
42
Postuar Communist Activities in ducation
47
Conelusion
58
Leftist Organizations in Japan
61
Bibl1ography
65
SEGRCT

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.92)
-2 -
Pallsisal Rexiex 12 = Sntambex 12
At Irkutak, Siberia, in 1921 Josef Stalim presided as
a Far Enstern Conference of the Comintern. Twe ardent youmg
Japanese radicals, KOSAKA Sanzo and TOKUDA Kyuiehi, attended
this meeting and thus eerly in their revolutiomary careers
came under the direct influence of the present Russiam dietater.
Inspired by this conference, these two revolutiomaries returmed
home determined to establish a Communist Government in Japan.
The folloving year, July 1922, the Japan Communist Party
(Nippon Kyosanto) was formed ns en unierground organizatiom
by a small group of Japenese redicele led by Tokuda end sHIGA
Yoshio. Nosmka, who at that time was busy with hie own
revolutionery sotivities ee seoretary and lemder of the
left wing faction of the Ganerel Labor Alliance, offieially
Joined the perty m few weeke later. Thege three heve become
the ruling triumvirate of the regurrected Communist Party in
poat-war Japan.
Mot long sfter its formation, the J.C.P. eent delegates
to Mosoow to attend a meoting of the oviet Comintern.
KATAYANA Sen, a socielist who had fled from Japan 1n 1913
end who wae a member or the  xecutive Committee of the Com
muniet Internetional, took these Jrpenece delegstes in charge
and became literelly their tecoher, protector an? mouree of
inepiration. hile they were in useln these representatives
reoeived
SFCRET

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.93)
一 -
reseived lmstruetions frem the Comintern to returm to Japme
and work for the overthrow of the Government and she estab
lishment of a Commumist distatorehip. Following the delogetes'
return from Mosoow, the first Japan Commumist Party Comvemtien
was celled in Tokye under the neme of a fertilizer eompamy's
In June 1923, the Japanese Government launahsd a drive
to break up the Communist Farty by arrenting and imprieaming
Communists and elloged Communists. Nosake, Shiga and Tokada
were among thome imprisoned. Several members of the Party
ascaped to Shangha1 and Moscow. there, attempts ware made to
reorgenize the J.C.P. This pction by the Japanese Covermment
to stamp out the Japan Communiet Party weakened the Party's
internal organization. Nevertheleas the Communiets comtinued
to win oonverts and sympathizers, especlally from among
students end professors. An example was e Communist student
group organ1zed et Ke1o University in 1923 by Nosaks while
he wns a lecturer there. Some of Japan's prominent Communist
leaders later emerged from this student group.(2)
Durin the 1920s many Communiste hed infiltrated into
proletarien pertics that sought the munport of Japanese
farmere end laborers. These infiltrating teohnioues were
so suoceesful in the Labor-Farmer Party (odo Mominto) that
the Communists virtually controlled thet organization. It
1s aignificant that Hosaks, the Communiet lender today was
ono
(1) Yenan eport No. 43, Januery ?2, 1945, p. 8-7.
(2) Yenen Feport No. 43, January ?9, 1945, p. 7-8.
BSGRET

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.93)
一 3一
one of the organisors of thie party. Commmmist imfluemme
in that deeade reached its peak im the l92s eleetiom whsm
the Communists supported the Labor-Farmer Party which pelled
approximstely 200,000 votes and elested two of 1ts eamiidates
to the Diet. Its popular vote was greater than that reesived
by any other left-wing party in that eleotion. (3)
1th the resurgenee of nat1onal1mm 1n the 1930s, Com-
muniem lost muoh of ite appeal to many Japanese whe hed
accepted its tonets the previous deonde. The more moderate
left-wing parties now attraoted mmny. Numbors of Commamiste
and fellow travellere joined the cemp of the young fanatieal
militarlats whose loudly proolaimed attecks on ompitalim, the
concentration of wealth and the proposed nationelization of
Industry, were eseentially in harmony with the Commumist party
11no.
Nosake escaped to Russle in l93l and for several years
Following. he partioipated in verlous Executive Committee
Plenery Conferenoee of the Comintern in Moscow. Two years
efter Kateyama'e death, in 1935, Noenke was eleeted to mucceed
him es a full member of the Comintern's Centrel Exeoutive
Committee. ven while living abroad he kept in toueh with
Communists in Japan through the uneerground.
Nosake meintained a olose contant with KAJI ataru and
AOYaMA Kazuo in partiouler. These two Communi st sympathizere
were engaged in psyohological varfare for the Chinese
vationalist
(3) Yenan Teport No. 43, January 22, 1945, p. 9.
SECRET

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.92)
● 4 -
Natienalist Gevernment. Their ebjestive was to perammée
Japamese soldiers to sarrender, by breedcasts that destered
the Japanese people, rather than the militarists, shoule
sontrol the Government, and that the Emperor system sheuld
be abol1shed. Japanese soldiers, who did surrender, besame
members of the Hanson Domei (Anti-ar League) whioh had beem
organized by Kaj1 and Aoyama. Nomaka was convinoed that the
most effeotive method for keeping the Japan Communiet Party
alive during the war, and thereby have an metive foree to
work with when hostilities ceaeed, wns the organizatiem of
Japenese prisoners of ver into an eggresaive Communist group. (4)
Nosake (now known as OXANO Susumu in China) arrived 1n
Yonan 1n Communiet controlled Chine in May 1943. He imme-
diately sssumed the direction of activities for converting
Japanese prisoners of ar into Communist propagandists. A
Jepanese orkere and Peasants "chool was eateblished at Yenam
for this purpose. Nosaka either wrote or supervised the
writing of propaganda leaflete urging Japanese soldiere to
surrender. "An Appeal to the Jspenese People" 1s coneidered
his most important propagandn vork of this perlod. In this
leaflet, Nosake sppenled to the Jepenese people to bring the
war to en end, by orgenizing a peonlee front, oruahing the
militariete end cetebllghing a peonles' government.(6)
Nomske's progrem for e post-wer Jepen emerged more
clearly at the beginning of 1944, when the Anti-Ver League
wes dissolved, and the Japanese Peonlen' Emancipetion Leegue
(Nipnon
(4) OIn Beport Mo. P530A, Jonuary 1, 1949, p. 62-64.
(5) Yenon eport Ho. 43, January ?9, 1945, p. 11.
OET

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.94)
一 8-
(Mippon Jimmim Kaiho) was established is its plase. mis
new organisation was designed to attreet the amppert af
Japanese all over the world and to serve as a nueleas of
a popular front movement, whioh would ultimately lead to
a Communist diotatorship in Japan.
The propeg nda of the Japenese Peoples' Emaneipatiom
League was couched in the usual euphonistie terms, sush as
"people's government", "demooratic prooesses" and "freedom
of speeoh". However, in place of advoosting the immediate
abolition of the Fmperor system, the League proposed
veguely thet this systes should be eliminated in Japan
gradually.(6)
Mosaka made every effort to obtain the blessing of
the Allied governmente on his orgeniration. It was his
ambitlon that when hostilltins onded, this Lengue would be
a nucleus around hioh a post ar Communiet government would
be formed in Japan under Allied Cccupetion. Although he
received n aympethetio hearing in certain querters, the
Allled governmente vorked with him officlelly only on the
techniques of payohological  mrfare.
(6) Yonen eport No. 43, Jenuery 29, 1945, p. 11.
Gna. Fer  est Commond, "ivil Intelligence Section,
Periodical Summary. No. 34, November 15, 1948,
Summation Section p. 3-8.

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.94)
一8一
Pol1tieal Reviex Qatober lgss te the Eracema
The release of all political prisonere by scAp's direetive
in Ootober 1945 marked the postwar resurreatlon of the Japam Gem-
munist Party. By this direotive, B0? Comauniste were liberated
and ?026 Communiet sympsthizers end other radicals were freed
Immediately upon releace from prison, TokUDA Kyuieht and
SHICA Yoshio, two of the founders of the original Japam Commmmist
Party, and other libersted Communists emerged again as metive
Party leaders. A generel congress of Party membere met at Tokyo
in December l945. This meeting wns offiolelly onlled "The Fourth
General Congress" as evidenoe of the Party's contimulty sinoe
1te organixation in l92?. There was no attempt mede at this
convention to formulate a definito perty pletform. A list of
ambiguous these wae proclaimed as patterns from whiah the Farty
would mold its future program. Five hinired Party members out
of 1,l83 cordholdere attended. Tokude wae cleoted Ceneral
Seoretary and heirmen of the poverful Politioel Organization
Committee.
Temporary lesdership war vested in a seven man
Central xroutive Coxmittee whlch 1noluded both Tokuda end Shige.
Hore permenent plene for lescerahip were eleyed until HosKA
Sanzo's re turn from China in January, 1946.
The Communtats. sinoe their rocmergence as e postwar
politioal party, heve tried repeetedly to establish a
popular or united front.
Soon oPter Tokude's and Shiga's
(1) CAp s Cummation of Non-Milltary Aotivities in
release
Japan end Korea, eptember-0otober 1945, p. 38.

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.93)
release from prisom in Oetober, they approecbeß the Sestalsass
with a united fromt propessl. This overture was rejested
by the Sosialists om the grounds that the twe parties had
not been as yet firmly established. Folloving the Fourth
General Congress 1n Docember 1945 the Communist leaders
proposed agmin a united front with the Sooialists, wit
the emphasis on common aotion for the solution of the feed
orisis. The Socielists rejected this propomal as well.
The Comeuniste in January began metting the stage fer
new populer front disoueslons, coincident with Nosaka's
return to Japan from Chine. In the meantime YAnAxAwA
Ritoshi, one of the founders of the Japan Communist Party
(maequarading today as an iniependent), promoted the Cem-
munist coal by appealing to all "pro-demooratio" parties,
trade unions, and other organivntions to establish a brond
populer front that would limit 1te objeotives to a mall
number of basio demends agreed upon by the partioipating groups.
Mosakn arrived in okyo a few days later. The prese
heralded his arrival es oremaging n new, and probably muo-
cessful, attempt to cstablish a populor front. On January
14, he end other Communi st len ers 1ssued a joint etatement
whioh softened the Communiet position on the controvereiel
cuestion of abolishing the Tmperor system end colled for the
speedy organization of e populer front on the basis of reach-
ing en agreement on programs a'vanced by "pro-demooratio
groups". This more moderate Communimt position on the
Emperor
9L0RT

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.93)
-  -
Emperer agaten was a bid te these groups whe had engrts
with the Communlst oppesi tien to the Taperer. Hosevse,
after a heated debate the Sosialiste deolded fimally thas
the question of a popular front should he postpemsd. (2).
The Communists called another Congress at Tokye in
late rebruary 1946. The primary purpome of this msesing
vas to enlarge the Central soutive Committee. Tokuda re-
taimed his position of leadership by continuing to oscupy
not only the position of General Seoretary but, also, that
of Chief of the Organization Tuidance Section, whieh hae
juriediction over the activities of oll party organizors
throughout Japan. Noeaks, however, was made a member of
the Party's two most powerful organs, the Politioal Bureau
and the Seoretariat.
In ite early stage of reorgenization, the Japan Commumist
Party made little progrens. Heverthelcss, by constant apeeches,
publioity releases and neweworthy notivities, the Party kept
1tself foremost in the publio eye. The press wes generally
friendly because of the presenoe of many Communiats and
eympathizere emong the newspapermen, and because the Communist
leaders were colorful and exoiting news sources. The Communists
also gained prestige by Cap's order releasing them from primon
thus cauaing many Japaneee to believe that the Communists had
the blensings of the occupation. ll of this stimulated publio
interest in Communim and Communist policies.
The
(2) 0IR Report No. 2530A, Jen. 1, 1949, D. 132-141.
2E0RE1

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.95)
The firat real test of the overt pelitieal strengh
the Commumist Party oume with the general elestiom fer the
Lover Nouse of the Diet en April 10, 194s. As sesn as the
date for the clection was annoumoed, the Commumists eamamßed
postponement of the eleetion on the grounds that existing
oiroumstances would favor the supporters of the etatms que,
and operate to the disadvantage "or genuime demeeratie forees".
Early in the Oampaign the Communiste annoumoed that their
prinoipal planke were stabilisation and promotion of the
livelihood of the people, punishment of war criminals,
abolition of the Emperor aystem and esteblishment of a
people's republioan government with a new "demooretie"
oonstitusion.
In the nation's 53 election districts, the Party entered
143 candidatee with as many ns meven in the Rokkaido Firet
1striot and the Nagano Prefeotural Distriot. In the
eleot1on 1tself the "ommunists polled neerly 2,000,000
votes and eleoted five ondidatee, NoSaxA Sanzo from the
Tokyo Firet 1striot, ToyU A Kyuioho from the Tokyo Second
Distriot, HIGa YOshio from the saka Firet Diatrict, TAKAKURA
Teru from the Nagano Prefecturel lstrict end Miss KAkaSAdA
Toahiko from the Hokkvido irst Istrlot. Through the dis-
qualiriostion of a Liberel Party candidete in Kanagewa
Prefecture, NaKANISHI Inosuke, the firat Communist runner-up
in the distriot, won the cest, thereby giving the arty a
totel of six ropregent tives in the lower House. The day
ofter the electione, the Communists demanded a new eleotion
on the

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.95)
-10-
an the grounds that admimistrative delimquemey had lon te
insomplete registration snd that sxamimation of eeneidasss*
Your weeks after the eleotions, the Socialists, 1m am
attempt to bring about a more harmonious relatiomship between
the left-wing and other factions within their Party, reeem.
sidered the united front proposels made by the Commamlsts in
the previous Jamuary. The Jocielists countered with a prepomal
for organizing a denocratio social movement with the strength of
eaeh Party in the new orgenization based on membership im the
Diet. he Communists promptly rejected this plan as 1t would
give the Foclallsts, with greeter numbers in the Diet, the
dominste position.
The seoond postwer general election for the Lower House
of the 1et was culled in April of 1947, a yeer after the
first eleotion. Communist oamoaign propagsnda again stresmed
the usual party line, but emphavized in purtioular the need
of higher property, wer profits end inoome taxes, wege in-
creases, state control of benke und industries inoluding
mining, eleotrio power and transportation, inorease of
prices to the fermers ane the confiecation of farm land
owned by landlords end its redistributlon to tenent farmers.
The Communiats polled 1,C0?,884 votes and eleoted four of
1te oandidates. Noenke end Tokude wore re-elected by
comfortable margins, but Shige, Takakure end Hakani ehi were
defented
(3) 0I eport No. 2530A, Januery 1. 1949, p. 142-147.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.94)
-11-
defeated. shiga's defest was a heavy blew to the Party es
he was one of the top lesdere, ranking mexs toe Nesake and
Tokuda. Hovever, the Commemists elected MAYAsmI Myakure
from Ragano Prefecture and KIMURA Sakae from Shimame Pre-
feoture.(4)
The following month, a national oleotion was hold fer
the House of Counolllors, the upper ohamber or the Watiomal
Diet, composed of ?50 members who are cleoted on a mation-
wide and prefeotural brsis. The Communists ran 86 candidates
poll1ng 610,498 or 3x of the vote on a national basis ama
825,304 or 4% on n prefectural basis. Communiet results
in thin eleotion roughly parelleled the situation exper-
1enced in the content of sents of the Houee of Represente-
tives. Three Communlste were elected on a national basie.
NAKANO Shigoharu, NAKANI SNI Ko, BOKAVA Karoku and one Com-
munist on a prefeoturel boeln, ITavo Ketauji of Okayema
Prefeoture.
The Communists entered candidates in many of the local
eleotions held in 194?. However, in the contests for
governore, mayors and for the prefectural pasemblies only
three Communist cundidates were elected - one eaoh for the
Tokyo, Negano and Mie prefectural aesemblies. In the looml
mesemblies they succeeded in electing only 420 assemblymen
out of 173,989 mgsts.
After the eleotions the Communiste, exoept to promote
looal populer fronts, refrainod from making further formal
overtures
(4) OnI eport No. 2530A, Jan. 1. 1949, p. 190–191.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.94)
-12-
overtures te the Sosisllsts until the fellowimg yemr in
Mareh, 1948. At that time they propesed that the Cemmumiste
and Soclmlists cooperate in the eleetiom to be held in April
on suoh objectives es bleck market sontrol, natiemal somtrel
of banks and inlustries, minimum wage, food and honsing fer
the uneuployed, inorease in the price of rice and greater
freedom for women. The socialists rejeoted thie propomal a
few daye later. There were no further offioial attempts 
the J.C.P. to establish a popular front from the Spring of
1948 unt1l the following December when many left-wing mem-
bers of the Sooiel Demoorats bol ted from the Party and
organized a Farmer-Labor Forty umier the leadership of
KURODA Hisso. The Communists and the newly formed Farmer-
Labor Farty joined foroes in the campaign for the general
eleotion held January ?3, 1949.
The Communists hed been disappointed in prevlous eleotions
1n their failure to win more sents in the 1et and they were
determined thet more of their orndidntes would be euccesaful
in the ooming cleotion. They started their oampaign long
before any of the other Portiee. They marshalled their
foroes more effectively end demended from Perty members
greater efforts in promoting Communint c ndidates. Fleotion
sohools were esteblished where leading J.C.P. memhers, sueh
as Hosaka and Shige, gave leotures to the rank and file Party
workers on the best vote-getting teohniques.
In the
SECNET

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.94)
-18-
In the previous elections, the J.C.P. had made the miseakse
of runming too many candidates in the eleetiom distriess amd,
as a result, the Communist vote was split. Commequemtly,
they were never able to eleot more then six members to the
Lower House of the iet. In this ommpaign, they desided
to enter fever candidater with the hope of comeentrating
the Communist vote. They expended more money per vote than
any oppoeition party. It is raported J.c.P. raimed a eam-
paign fund of 30,00,000 yen largely through the mmle of Sanotin
(a doworming medioine) end elsc through black market operations
partioulmrly in sacoharin and newsprint.
In addition to the unual Communist Party line, that is
primarily a bid for the labor and induetrial vote, the J.C.P.
played up the corruption in the major politioal perties, siting
for exemple, the scandal of the Showe  enke bribery ease. The
Communists argued thet, in contrast, they were the only "pure
1noorruptible perty". The J.C.P. bid for the farmers' vote
by attroking the Sovernment's rioe colleotlon and flood control
progrom.
Hovever, the moet significent ohange in propegenda tactice
was the Communist aopeal for the sunport of small and medium
class businees by aocusing the present governmon& of a tax
program thet drove such busineee firme into bankruptey. The
Communlsts prooeeded to eetabliah tex coneultant offices where
these bueineesmen could receive instruotions on
methods
2ORET

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.94)
- 24 -
metheds that would reduse their taxes. In order to sbesin
additional support from this eless of basimess, the J.0.P.
sven eneouraged ecoperatien between labor and mamagemsmt.
Such notions indicate that the Communists are strengtheming
their position by brosdening their bemm of eppeal to obtain
the support of those groups which they would in the eme de-
stroy, onoe control of the Government passed into their hamds.
The Communists made remarkable Fains in the eleetion
held January 23, 1949. They reoeived approximstely 3,000,000
votes as compared with 1,000,000 roce1ved at the previous
eleotion and ceated 36 condidates in the House of Represonte-
tives. This 1s an inorease of almost 900% over their previous
number of only four members. The Communist gaine were een-
tered mlmost entirely in the industrial area. Tokyo for
example elected 7 candidates and Ssaks 4. In the rural
seotions, deepite efforte to penetrate farm cooperetives
and farm unione, their cnndidates were less suooessful.
Communiet g"ins in this lest election mey be mttributed
to meny factors. It is believed that the most importent of
these sre: grenter effort and money expended to secure J.C.P.
support; the conoentr: tion of votes on Communist oendidates
resulting in a greeter number receiving the recuired votes
for election; e less revolutionary progrem whioh sfforded e
broader base of vote appeal; corruption in the ocial
emoorats

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.93)
-10-
Serviee Law; and the snhamsed prestige the Japen Gemmmmiss
Party, derived from the Communist victories im Chime.
The Communists, strengthened by their swesess im she
election, pronosed again to the Social Demoorats a umised frems
under whioh the Communists would leed the radieal movememt im
Japan. Nosaka speaking for the Perty issued a eall for a mitsd
front "besed on the masses to fight the remotionary and comserve-
tive regime" of the Yoshide Government. He proposed smeh speelfis
beees ef mgreement es opposltion to the 48-hour veek, dissharge
or employees in over-manned government bureaus, and the foed
colleetion program for the fermers, revision of the laber lawe
and op osition to the mensures the government hsd adopted to
cerry out the nine-polnt direotive of Deneral MaoArthur to
establish sconomio rehabilitation. It is believed that in the
1mmediate future there will be considereble Socialist collabora-
tion with the Communiste on meny of theee issues.
It ahould be pointed ou: that the Communist strongth in
the present House of Rapresentatives is not dependent solely
on 1ts on 35 Communist members. The seven votes of the Parmer-
Labor Group will, in all probebility, eupport the Communists.
On mony leeues, a veried pronortion of left-wing Soclnl Domoerats
estimated es high an Bof, a scnttering numbor of independents
BCRET

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.94)
-16-
may vote for Commmmist approved measures. It is expeetel
that the J.C.P. will vigorously contimme their efforts to
unite the left-wing parties in Japan into a politioally
powerful populer front under Comunist dominetion.
Their resl motive in mttempting to establish a popelar
front is to mocelerate the rapid infiltration of Commmmisßs
into other left-wing parties, with the ultimate purpose of
domineting, and then finally licuidating all non-Commamiet
elements w1thin the parties. he Communiste belleve that
the more conventional ocial emoorate are torn by diesom-
slon and that their Party will disintegrate if the Sooiallets
can be induced into a political alliance. The Commumists
believe if they can win s foothold within the Sooiel
Demooratio ranks, they cculd woo sucoeesfully the left
wing moclalists preperatory to eventuel Communlst control
of the ocial  emocretio Party.
SSORET

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.93)
-17-
Lanan Commustat Partx Sahonla(1)
The Japan Communist Party hne established sehoale to intes-
trinate Party workere in the various aspeets of Cemmmisms sose as
the orgenizatlon of revolutionary government, the mesessity of
striot Party dimoipline, and methods for establishimg Commumist
cells within strategle Japanese groups suoh as youth, edueatiem
and labor.
The J.C.P. regarde these Communist sehools highly ss they
have been so mucceseful in training Party workers to promote
Communism in Japen. The most important Communlst sohool is the
Central Party Sohool looeted at Tokyo. This was orgamised im
December l945. It 1s headed by Nosaka, who hen modelled it olosely
after his Communist mchool in Yenen, China. At this sohool they
train full-time profrssionel revolutioniets in the primaiples of
Communiet teotios in class struggles. All of Jmpen's prefeotures
are reprevented, with 25% of the total enrolled being women. Only
young, vigoroun and potential lemjers ere ohosen ae students.
Before they are accspted, the students must be thoroughly sereened
and pmeaed by reglonal committees. tudente live in dormitories,
and the Japen Communiet Perty pays all of their exponses while
they are in attendanoe.
The feoulty 1ncludes euoh well-known Communist leaders
es Tokuda, Nogekn. Ito, Thige, Hnkamadn, Miyamoto. Krmiyama.
Bome of the mubjeote taught ere Communist Economio Theory,
Party
(1) Seo Tokyo espstoh No. 514, Ju1y ??, 1946 nnd GHe,
Far mst Command, Civil Intelligence Cection, Feriollonl
Summary No. 25, Feb. 16, 1948, Summetion Section. p. 27-30.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.94)
- 18 -
Party Organization and Discipline, Tacties and strategy
of the Japam Communist Party, Problems of a Demeeratie
Front, History of World Proletarian Movement, Marxist
Economiss, Development of Japanese Capitalism, Develepment
of Soolaliam, Labor truggles and Farm Movements. The mere
importent textbooks inolude ?telin's Funiamentala ef Lamimim
and Marx's Plaleotiaal Materialism. It is believed that by
the end of January 1948 they had 1,200 graduates.
The Japan Communist Party hes also establlshed im Tokye
an "organizere mohool". Thin sohool was oreated for the
purpose of training new exeoutives for the Perty. Students
thet are acoepted munt have unusual exeoutive ability to
guerantee a strong leadership in the future.
There are a number of regional sohoole estebllshed by
the Party in difrerent sections of Jnpen, where they teach
the standard Communiet subjectm. A school ham also been
organized for di sgruntled Koreana. Theee Korean sohoole
have a large enrollment. In a ition to these speoislized
sohools, numerous Party sponsored labor ond farmer mehools have
been eatablished throughout Japan.
0R2

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.93)
-20-
Cammnist Poater Laher Aatiria()
The Japan Commumist Party has placed its greatest empheake
on the penetration of labor unions. It is advensageeus fer
them to control labor umions not only besause of the large
numbers involved, but also beeouso it is possible through
Communist controlled and coordinated strikes and other forms
of lebor conflicts to mggravate conditions within the country
to the point where eoonomic chaos will regult in the overthrew
of the government.
Immediately upon their releass from prlmon 1n Osteber, 1945
Tokuda, Shiga and other Communists experienoed in laber metivities
laid plane for the infiltration by Communists into Japemese
labor unions thit were being organized. The very newmess of
the labor moresent enebled the Commun1sts to enter on the
groumi floor during the oritical rormntive atage of many lmbor
unions. Communiste have been sucoesaful in dominating labor
unions beoause they were  ble to take advantage of this general
immeturity end inexperienoe of organized labor in Japan. The
preveiling tendency or the Japene e to follow the leader hes
served the Communiete well in the lsbor movement for they have
Communiete have frequently provided the initistive in
organizing unions and in planning union nctivity for they are
experionoed in suon organizmtional activities. In edcition,
many
(1) Soe Tokyo  espatoh No. 630, "opt. 4, 1048 Arafted
by Charlee N. pinks. p. 2550.
(2) 1b10., 0. 25.

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.92)
一0-
many Gemmunists whe have imfiltrated the laber mevemeats ase
full time organisere wheress the nom-Commumiss uaiem mem eas
devote only a portion of their sime to uniom astivities. After
Nosaka's return to Japam in Jenuery, 1946, the Commamists,
supported by left wing Socielists, laid the ground werk for the
creation of a labor orgenization that would rival the mere Cen-
servetive Sodomei (Japmn Federation of Labor).
In Auguet, 1946, the National Congress of Industrial Umioms
(Smmbeteu) was estebliehed. This labor federeation, patterped
after the Amerioen CI0, 1noludee major unions in almost all the
vital industrial rislds, such as transportation, communieations,
eleotrio power, steel, coel, neweneners, radio, publishing end
printing. It has become the lergest of the labor federations
with an alleged memberehip of 1,200,000 as contrested with the
Socialist dominated odomei's claimed membership of over 1,100,000.
While 1t 1e reliebly estimated that not more than l0% of the
membership of the unions affilisted with the Sambetsu are party
members and eympathi:ers, the embeteu is overwhelmingly controlled
by Communints. It has been computed that B3& of the Central xeou-
tive Committee, 91& of the Administrative "epartment Chiefs, 81%
of the Fecreterist ond 75f of the officisls of the Sambeteu are
Communists. Mikunemi, the Federntion's firet resident, 1s a
Party member. (?)
me
(2) Central Intell1gence Agenoy, 9 46-48, Sept. 28, 1948, P. 7,
Tokyo espatoh No. S30, ept. ?4, 194e rerted by harles N.
Spinke, p. 26.
ECRET

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.93)
一
lsber unioms permits a famatical sealons minsrity te ssoug
key poaitions and thus control the umion. This ayatem is the
Sambetsu works basicelly as follows: The goal of the Cemmemiss
labor lesders in the union's local chapters is to engimeer the
looml meeting so that Communists are selested for the wmiem's
District Exeoutive Committee. The Communiet mombers of the
Distriot Executive Committee arrenge for Communists te be
eleeted ns members of the Onion's Prefectural Committee. The
Communists in the P'refectural Committee manipulate the eleetion
so that Communists are elected as members of the Uniom's Regiemal
Executive Committee and the eglonal Exeeutive Committee Com-
munists in turn eleots Communint membere for the Umiom's Cemtral
Exeoutive Committee. A union's Communist dominated Central
Exeeutive Committee then eleots ropresentatives from their
union to serve on the Sembetsu Central  reoutive Committee.
The Central xecutive Committee of the Sambeteu then eleets
the Chairmen, two Vico-Choirmon end the Seoretary-General from
among its own membare. Chiefs of the varioue Cambetms adminlse
trative depertments pre mupointed by the eoretary-General.
Other secret riet members ere elected by the Central "xeeutive
Committee rrom emong ite own members. Under thls eyetem a
Communiet minority by clever menipulntion cen rally Communist
sympathizers and unsumpeoting members into e bare majority on
e union's locel chepter level that becomes eventuelly & near
unanimous
SECUET

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.93)
一2-
at a national level the Communiste meed only to seure a sp
majority on the Central Exeoutive Committee, whieh will emmtke
them to eleot as meny of their owm group as they desire as
offioiels and membere of the ecretariat.
Of the unions afriliated vith National Congress of Imdustrial
Unione, ambetsu, the All Japen leotrio Workere Union (Densmm),
All Japan Communioation Workere Union (Zontei) and the mere
resently organized All Japan Metals Vorkere Union (Kiazoka) are
most heavily dominated by Communists. The notion of seventeem
exeoutive officials of the All Japan "oal Industry Uniom om
Decomber 25, 1948 in Joining the Communist arty will give
1noremmed Communiat strength in that union. Communists have
also infiltrated to a considerable degree into suoh unaffiliated
unions as the National Couno1l of Oovernment orkere, the Japen
Teaohere Unlon end the Covernment eilvay orkers Union.
Sambetau unione have incited all Communiet inspired strikes.
Their firet ettenpted disnlny of etrength in the labor field came
in September, 1946 and involved Covernment oilwey Workers Union
and Senman'e Union. The tunor of the smecches made to the strikere
end the propatande lenflete distributed streased the necessity
for the defeat of cenitall em". lthouph the firet efrort falled
to mohleve the goal set by the ommunists, it stimuleted Communist
efforte to initiste a nationvilo gone el strike known s the
October

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
23
"Ostober Offensive" through the Sambetss afrilisteß umtems.
Kembers of the All Japen Resspaper and Radio Weskere Waien,
All Japan Electric Power Workers Union, All Japam Ceal Mimimg
Uniom and lesser unions including some members of the All
Japen Motion Picture and Theatrical Workers Unien walked ous.
Another general strike was scheduled for February 1, 1947
and was to include the Socialist dominated Japan Federatiem of
Labor (Sodome1) as well as the Sambetsu. However, the Sedamei
withdrew leaving the Communist dominated Sambetsu in complete
control. The strike was organized under Communist slogams and
politieal policies. Over two-thirds of the top gemeral strike
leaders were members of the Japan Communist Party or sympathisers.
When SCAP prohibited the strike both the Sambetsu and the
Communistm suffered a serious loss of prestige. Commmist
leadership in the Sambetsu's Communication Workers Uniom
together with certain Government workers unions, called a
nation wide strike for March, 1948. This walkout was also
promptly prohibited by SCAP. SCAP's request in July for
revision of the National Public Service Law asking that Govern-
ment employess not be allowed to strike, immediately brought
vehement protests from KIKUNAMI Katsumi, DOBASHI Kazuyoshi and
KAW mokoto, Communist officials of the Sambetsu.
Communist techniques for strikes had become so efficient
and had given them such a dangerous weapon that SCAp was of the
opinion that if the Communists directed strikes were left completely
uneontrolled
SECRET

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.96)
4
rehabilitation.
The strike strategy of the Japan Commmmist Party brings
into play all the overt and eovert meehanisms of the Partyts
organization. The order for a umion strike erigimates with
the union's Central Executive Cemmittee and sifts dowm to the
lowest union level. The first step is to establish "straggle
committees" by mational, regional and prefeetural exeeutive
committees of the union. Sinee each executive committee has
a powerful Communist fraction, the struggle committees im turm
have their Commumist fractions.
The Japan Communist Party maintains liaison with Commmmmist
fractions in the various committees on a horisontal bmsis. with
this arrangement, fractions in the Central Struggle Committee
and in the Central Executive Committee of each member umion
receive their orders directly from the Central Committee of the
Japan Communist Party. Fractions in the regional struggle
committees and in the reglonal executive committees receive
their orders from the Regional Committees of the Japan Communist
Party, while fractions in the Prefectural Struggle Committees
and in the Prefectural Executive Committees receive their
orders from the Prefoctural Committees, of the Party.
There are no struggle committees at the local union chapter
level. The workers in the local unions who carry out the strike
itself are influenced and controlled by the Local Committees of
the
SBCRET

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
-25
and Shimpadan (sympathiser groups) in each chapter.
The Party will also throw into action ite perallel sappert-
ing forces. On the overt side at all levels of ectiem opesate
the various propaganda agencies of the Party and the Toung Gam-
munist League sueh as the Party's press, the work of the Prepa-
ganda and Education, and the Agitation and Propaganda Seetioms
in the Party's national, regional and prefectural beadgearters
and the activities of Party mombers in the Diet and other spokes-
men and publicists. At the same time, various Commumist fremt
groups are called upon for supporting action. On the covert
side, parallel supporting action is undertaken by the various
espionage and black propaganda apparats, controlled by central
headquarters, but operating only at the prefectural, distriet
and local levels of action.
Strikes are not the only tools of the Communists that
undermine Japan's industrial recovery. Working through fraetiems
or cells, Communist Party members within the key industrial
unions often are successful in initiating and encouraging wide-
spread sabotage in industry, such as damaging tools and equip-
mont, inspiring work slowdowns, inciting unrest with the all
over purpose of disrupting production. Such practices combined
with Communist directed strikes retard the production of commodi-
ties essential for Japan's economic revival.(3)
(3) Tokyo Despatch No. 630, September 24, 1948 drafted by Charles N.
Spinks, p. 25-28.
SECRET

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.94)
Xamimtsme(1)
The Toung Cemmunist League serres as a cose of Gommmetet
youth eetivities, mot cmly in seheels, but alse in fasteries,
mines, laber umions and farm villages. Under the gaidanse of
the J.C.P., the members of the Young Communist Leagee have
infiltrated and dominated most of the youth organimatiems in
Japan. Through an elaborate program of such "ertra-eurrieular
activities" as contests, athletic events, lectures and eultural
programs, the youth of Japan are drawn into the Commumist met.
The Young Communist League has served also as a cemmeeting
link between the J.C.P. and the more violent youth assanlt greups,
the "Youth Aetion Corps" and the "Assault Corps". Recently,
however, the J.C.P. has incorporated these two groups imte the
official framework. These organisations have been indefimite
groups that came into existence when the Communists felt the
need. They are composed of the more young and violent elements
of the Party who carry on the old Japanese tradition of "rule
by violence". Their primary purpose 1s to subdue by black-
mail and force out, all outspoken anti-Communists. When their
strong arm methods bring the wrath of the Government, or
crystallise public anti-Communist pressure, the groups
disappear into less innocuous parent organisations sueh as
the
(1) See GHQ, Fer Rast Command, Civil Intelligence Section,
Periodical Summary No. 27, April 15, 1948 Summation Section
p. 3-14.
BECPET
