894.52 Japan, Lands., November 12, 1946 - November 25, 1949 (File 1792)
ID: 894.52-1792   Pages: 361   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.52-japan-lands-november
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
D'PSRIMENT OF STAIS
887a
Unrestricted
Tokyo, November 12, 1946
No. 695
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIASION 0I FOREIGN
$UBJECT:
"Revised Agricultural ajustment Law" and "Bill
NOV 25 1946
for the Special easure for the Establishment
of Owner Farmer."
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to
nclose herewith copies of the English translation of
Revised Agricultural Land Adjustment Law" and "Bill for
2/
the Special Measure Br the Establishment of Owner-Farmer."
Both of these bills were passed by the Diet during its
last session.
894.52/11
In order to implement the "Bill for the Special
Measure for the Establishment of Owner Farmer," it was
necessary to effect considerable revision of the old
Agricultural Land Adjustment Law. The underscored por-
tions of Enclosure No. 1 are the sections which were
revised or deleted.
Under the provisions of the new owner-farmer legisla-
-1246
tion, the large estates will be broken up. The Government
will purchase all lands declared by the various Agricultural
COPILS
Land Commissions to be a vailable for distribution. After
PC:
a property has been acquired it will immediately be made
available for sale to an owner-farmer. The acreage which
can be purchased varies acccrding to location, the largest
acreage per person being in Hokkaido. Purchasers will be
permitted to pay for property acquired over a period of
thirty years with interest at the rate of 3.2 per cent
being charged on the principal.
INTERNA IONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
JANS 1947
F JAPANESE AND KORE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CUNOMIC AFFAIRS
Enclosures:
OFPARTMENT OF STATE
As Stated (single copies
only)
11946
Original and Hectograph to Department
FILED
852
-GAAbbey:cbk
1946 N 1  3
CIVIS0
a
.
m心.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's No. 695, Nov 12, 1946, subject
Revised Agricultural Adjustment Law" and "Bill for the Special
Measure for the Establishment of Owner Farmer."
R/K
Doc. No..22662
GENHRAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SECTION, GENERAL STAFF
ALLIED TRANSLATOR AND INTERPRETER SECTION
NOTS: Translation Requested by Allied Council.
Received ATIS: 4 Sep 46..
Description of Contents: Full Translation of Proposed Revised Agricultural
Land Adjustment Law..

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
:Doc; No, 22662
R/K
Proposed Amendments to the Agridultural Lands Adjustment Law, Showing Portions
of the Existing Law to Be Changed.
Agricultural Land Adjustment Law.
Legislation #67 - 2 April, 1938
Legislation #64 (Revised)- 28 Dec 1945

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
Doc. No. 22662
Explanatbry Notes:
The upper section represents the proposed revised legislation with under-
lining to indicate the portion that differs from the present Law.
The lower section represents existing legislation corresponding to the pro-
posed legislation. Where no reforms are proposed in existing legislation, the
legislation is included in the upper section, and is omitted from the lower.
(TN: In place of "upper and lower sections", indentation will be used to differ-
entiate between proposed and existing legislation. Proposed reform legislation
(i.e. the upper section of the original document) will run from the margin, while
existing legislation (i.e. the lower section of the document) will be indented
one inch. The portion which ig side-lined in the document will be underlined
been made.
Article I.
This law has fr its object tho adjustment of mattors pertaining to agricul-
tural lands in crder to stahilize the status of farmers and to maintain and
promote agricultural produe'ive capacity.'
Article I.
This law has fo its objoct the adjustiment of matters pertaining.
to agricultural Lands in order to regenerate the cconomy of agri-
cultural villagcs and maintain peace therein, bearing in mind the
necd for stabilizing the status of farmers and farm-owners and
maintaining and promoting, in a spirit of mutual assistance, agri-
cultural productive capacity.
Articlc II.
In this legislation, the torm "agricultural land" shall mean land which can be
used for farming.
The term "farm ront" is applied to the rent for leased land vhich is used for
farming. ( Under the torm "rent" the following things are included: land which
is outside of the farm proper; and buildings and other installations which are
leased with the farm. In cases where this rent is inseparable by contract from
the farm rent, the rent from the land outside of the farm and from buildings and
installations on the farm vill bo included in the farm rent.) Th "farm ront"
shall apply also to cases of emphytousis when the object is the cultivation of
land.
Article III.
Whenever the farmer or faim ormer is unable to farm or manage the farm because
of illness, or is oxcused under exicting regulations, he may apply for manage-
ment or sale of the farm to the city, towm or village; to the agricultural
association of the city, town or village; or to other such organizations that
have been constituted by order.
When such an application is made, the aforementioned organizations have the
authority to manage or purchase the farm in accordance with the order.
Articlc IV.
The creation or transfor of the ownorship, luase, superficies, or other farm
land rights cannot be made unloss the party obtains the permission of the pro-
vincial governor or the approval of thc Agricultural Land Commission of the
city, town, or village concerned in accordance with the provisions of the order.'
The permission. or approval mentioned in the preceding paragraph may be subject
to condition. Action takon without the permission or approval montioned in the
first paragraph shall be invalid.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
DocNo.22662
Articlc Iv. Soction 1.
When it is Hedossary to acquire land which is needed in an unter"
prisc for the croation and maintenance of a Yoeman Organization
which has been duly ustablished under the law, or when it is
necessary to assume the rights to tho use or rovenue of other land
which is needed for the develdpment of tho aforcmentioned land,
a metropolis, district, special prefecture, or prefecture; or a
city, town or village; or the farm association of the city, town
or village; or any duly constituted organization can, with tho
approbation of the provincial govornor, obtain a consultation with
the owmer of the land or the party possessing rights to the land
concorning the transfer of this land or the crcation of authority
to use the revenue from the land.
Bofore he can give the approval mentioned in the previous para-
graph, the prefectural governor must first obtain the opinions of
the Agricultural Land Commission of the city, town, or village
in hich the said land is located.
In uch asos n the organization of tho first paragraph cannot
hoid a meeting or cannot reach an agreemont, it may requost, in
accordancc witn existing rogulations, a decision fron the Agri-
cultural Land Commission of the metropolis, district, special pre-
fecture, or pr  ecture on the transfer of the said land or on the
creation of the right to use the said land or the revenue there-
from.
When the organization mentioned in the first paragraph makes such
a requost, the (wmer or others having rights to tho land must be
simultaneously notificd.
Article IV. Section 2.
When a ruquest for a decision is made in accordance with the rug-
ulations cf paragraph 3, Article IV, the Agricultural Land Com-
mission of the i.etropolis, District, Special Prefecture, or Pre-
fucture must make a public announcement of such in accordance with
the order.
When a request for a decision in accordance with the regulation of
paragraph 3, Article IV is made, the owmer or others having rights
to the land in quustion may submit a written opinion to the Agri-
cultural Land Commission of the Metropolis, District, Special Pre-
fecture, or Prefocture within two wecks from the date of the ann-
ouncement.
When a request for a docision is made in accordance with the rog-
ulations of paragraph 3, Article IV, the owner of the buildings or
other installations on the proporty involved (henceforth these will
be called "instellations"). may, in cases where a decision has been
rendered ordering the transfer of the land or establishing the right
to use th farr: land or the revenue therefrom, include in the pre-
viously-mentioned written opinion to the Agricultural Land Com-
mission of the hetropolis, District, Spocial Prefecture, or Pre-
focture a request that a decision be rendered concerning the trans-
fer of land installations and on a transfor fee. However, this will
not apply to installations built after the builder has received the
notification mentioned in paragraph 4 of the previous article.
Article IV. Section 3.
The Agricultural Land Commission of the etropolis, District, Spe-
cial Prefecture, or Profecture shall begin deliberation after the
period of time set by peragraph 2, Article IV, suction 2 has clapsed.
A decision shall be rendered within two weeks from the date the Agri-
cultural Land Comunission of the Metropolis, District, Special Pre-
fecture, or Prafenture commences the'afore

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
Doc.-No. 22062
Article IV, Section 3 (cont.)
If tho Agricultufal Land Commission of a iotropolis, District, Spe-
cial Prefecture, or Prefegfure is unable to rendor a decision with-
in tho proscribed poriod, tho Prefectural Governor has tho auth-
ority to render a substituto dccision.
Tho rogulations of Article IV, paragraph 2 shall apply in the in-
stances montioned in thc two preceding paragraphs. Tho decision
rondered shall be limited to metters introduced in the request.
However, this shall not hindor the application of tho rogulations
of paragraph 6.
In cases whoro a decision is to bo renderod ordering the transfor
of land and a request has boen mado for a decision concerning in-
stallntions on said land in accordance with the regulations of the
previous Article, paragraph 3, a judgment must bo mado upon the
decision to transfer the land upon which the installations are lo-
cated and upon a transfer fec for said installations.
When a decision is made to transfer land or to croate the right to
the revenue from the use of land, or when a decision is made or-
dering the transfer of land, such decisions must bo based on tho
following:
1. The area of land to be transforred; the creation and the na-
ture of the rights to the revenue from the use of tho trans-
ferred land; the area of land which theso rights include; and
tho installations to bo transferred.
2. Compensation (in this and tho following paragraphs, this
shall include the installation transfer fees) and tho method
and term of payment.
3. The time involved in the transfer of the land and install-
ations, nd the duration of the rights to the revenue from
the land.
The docision will be rendered in writing, bearing those consider-
ations in mind. When the Agricultural Land Commission of a Mst-
ropolis, District, Special Prefecturc, or Prefecturc ronders a
docision, tho Commission shall submit  report to the Profectural
Governor including a copy of the decision.
Articlc IV. Scction 4.
A decision cannot bo rendered permitting the transfer of land in
accordance with tne regulations of Article IV, paragraphs 2 and 3
or giving the approbation required by Article IV, paragraph 1 if
the farm land falls under one of the following catogories:
1. Yooman's Land.
2. Farm land in which the ovmer's property does not exceed tho
arca ( henceforth to be called "fixed lcgal holdings") pre-
scribed by Imperial Dccree in tho district or tho adjacent
district of the city, town, or village in which ho lives or
holds legal rosidence.
3. Farm land which the owner desiros to retain and whieh falls
within thc fixed logal holdings proscribed by law, even if the
owner's total holdings exceed the fixed logal holdings in the
district or tho adjacent district of thc city, town or vill-
age in which said owner lives or holds legal residencc.
4. Farm land which falls in such areas of district planning
being conducted in accordanco with the City Planning Law as
are dosignatod. by tho Prefectural Governor.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
Ddb. Noi 22662
Article IV, Section 4 (cont.)
5. Farm land which the Agricultural Land Commission of the
City, Town or Village recognizes as land which the owner him-
self will farm in the near future, even though he has not
been farming it himself; or which the Commission believes
should be farmed by the owner himself.
6. Other farm lands designated by governmental decree.
Article IV. Section 5.
When the Prefectural Governor receives a report in accordance with
the regulations of Article IV, section 3, paragraph 9; or when a
decision is rendered in accordance with the regulations of the same
Article, paragraph 3, the fact must be made public in accordance
with governmental decree. Furthermore, the Prefectural Governor
must send a copy of the decision to the petitioner, to the owmer
of the property, and to any other party having rights in connection
wit the property.
When the public announcement is made in accordance with the pro-
vision of the : eceding paragraph, the decisions regarding the
transfer of the land and the installations thereon, creation of
the rights to  e revenue from the land, or the decision to order
the transfer o the land, or the decision on the installation trans-
fer fee shall bs considered to have been rendered, and the con-
sultation among the parties concorned shall be considered termi-
nated.
Article IV. Section 6.
When there is a deposit as a complete payment on the evaluation
of the procurement of the property, of the right of ownership to
the buildings, or of other rights in rem in accordance with para-
graph 2 of the previous Section, only the person with the author-
ity to register the deed may request the register of the deed.
Article IV. Section 7.
If the purchaser does not make a deposit or complete payment on the
evaluation of the property to the owner of the land or install-
ations in accordance with the provisions of Article IV, Section 5,
Paragraph 2 on or before the time set by the adjudication, the de-
cision is no longer valid.
Article IV. Section 8.
A party dissatisfied with the decision made under the provisions of
Article IV, section 3, paragraph 2 or 3 may appeal the decision to
the competent Ministry. If a person feels his rights have been in-
fringed upon through an illegal decision, he may instituto a law-
suit in the administrative courts.
Litigation which can be filed in ordinary courts in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 4 cannot be filed as an administrative
suit.
Persons who are dissatisfied with the evaluation adjudication ren-
dered under the provisions of Article IV, section 3, paragraph 2 or
3 may file suit in ordinary courts. However, a person cannot filo
suit if more than three months have elapsed since he received a cer-
tificd written copy of the adjudication.
When the purchaser files suit in accordance with the provisions of
the preceding paragraph, he may make a deposit cquivalent to the pre-
determined evaluation. However, if the seller demands, the purcha-
sor must pay the deposit set by the seller.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
D001 Nb. 22662
Article IV! Section 9.
Any formalities or avtions taken in accordance with the provisions
of sections 2,3,5,8 oF 7 of Article IV Bhall ba binding upon tha suct
eessors of the owner of the propefty or of any others now having
rights to the proporty.
Article IV. Section 10.
The provisions of sections 1 to 9, inclusive, of Article IV shall
apply when an organization, under the provisions of Article IV,
paragraph 1 or the Agricultural Land Commission of a City, Town
or Villago grants to a third party the right to possession of tho
land or the right to the revenue from the land for an enterprise
to create and support independent farmers of the same paragraph,
upon the request of said third party. The "parties concerned" in
Article IV, section 5, paragraph 2, shall be considered to in-
clude the owner of the land or installations, anyone else having
rights to the land or installations, and the aforementioned third
party.
Article IV. Section 11.
The provisions of Article IV, sections one through three, and Art-
icle IV, sections five through nine shall apply when a Farm Devel-
opment Organization, the Farmers' Association of a Metropolis, Dis-
trict, Special Prefecture, Prefecture, City, Town, or Village, or
other duly-authorized parties desire to develop (this excludes the
organization mentioned in Article IV, section 1, paragraph 1, set
up to develop farm land and support the enterprise for the creation
and maintenance of the Yeoman's Establishment mentioned in the same
paragraph) virgin land or lands whose transfer is nocessary for
their development, or desire to transfer or establish the right to
the use of revenue from these lands.
In cases where the Prefectural Governor or the Agricultural Land
Committec of the Metropolis, District, Special Prefecture, or Pre-
fecture docides upon an evaluation for the transfer of virgin lands
in accordance with tho rogulations of Articlc IV, section 3, para-
graph 2 or 3 which apply in the previous paragraph, the cvaluation
of these virgin lands cannot exceed the evaluation of adjacent sim-
ilar farm lands after the development expenses as set by order have
been deducted.
Article IV. Section 12.
The provisions of Article IV, sections one through three and five
through nine based on the regulations of Articlc IV, section 5, para-
graph 2 (including all cases applying under the previous two Art-
icles) shall apply to transactions involving security rights when
security rights exist for these lands or installations thercon.
When the security rights lapse in accordance with the provisions of
the previous paragraph, the party required to make payment on the
evaluation of tho rights to the land or installations thereon must
make a deposit upon that evaluation. Hovwever, this shall not apply
when a special decision is r ndered with the conference or the ad-
judication.
In the case mentioned in the previous paragraph, the person holding
the said security rights may exercise his rights toward the deposit.
Article V
The provisions of the previous Article do not apply in any cases which fall under
the following catcgories:
1. When the organization mentioned in Article III obtains the rights mentioned
in the previous Article for the purpose of carrying out of the enterpri
mentioned in Article TTI

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
Doc, No. 22662
Articio V (cont1)
2: When one of the parties concerned in the proturing of these afore-
montiohed rights is the nation, a metropolis, a district, a spocial pre-
fedturel a prefecture, or a Farm Devolopment Organization.
3. When land is eprepriated in accordance with the Land Expropriabidh
Law, dr other applicable laws!
4. When other regulations are applicable.
Articlc V.
Tho cstablishment or transfer of ownership rights, loaso rights,
superficies rights, and other rights to farm land shall bo inval-
id unless the approbation of the prefectural governor, or the head
of the city, town, or village shall have been secured in accordance
with law by tho party concorned.
Article VI. Section 1.
'If the owner, lcaser, or nphyteuta of the agricultural land, or any person
who possesses any otnor right entitling him to cultivato the land, desires to
use such farm land for purposcs other than farming, he shall first obtain por-
mission from the prefoctural governor in accordance with the provisions of the
law. This permission may be subjoct to conditions.'
Articlc VI. Section 2.
The amount of the cvaluation of the agricultural land (excluding the cases in
Article VI, section 4) in cxcess of the amount obtained by multiplying the rent
which is charged in accordance with tho Land Tax Law by the rate ostabliahed by
the competent Ministry can not be paid, received, or included in a contract.
However, this does not apply to the transfer of farm land when the transferor
or the transferee under duly established law has the approval of the prefectural
governor, or has other legal authority.
When the competent Ministry establishes this rate, it must be made public.
The provisions of paragraph 1, when they are mado public in accordance with the
regulations of the proccding paragraph, shall not apply to farm land for which
a transfer contract already cxists and to which the transfercc has already reg-
istored his rights, or when the transfer of the aforementioned farm land has al-
ready been completed.
Article VI. Section.3.
If the prefectural governor recognizes tho neccssity upon the potition of the
Agricultural Land Commission of the city, town, or village, he may, after con-
sulting the opinion of tho Agricultural Land Commission of Metropolis, District,
Special Prefecture, or Prefecture, determine a rate in lieu of the rate mentioned
in paragraph 1 of the preceding Article regarding the disputed area, or a new
amoult can be determined in licu of the mount mentioned in the same paragraph
in accordance with the other prescribed standards of that paragraph.
If the Prefectural Governor determines.an amount or rate in accordance with the
provisions of the preceding paragraph, these results shall be made public. When
these results are made public in accordance with the provisions of the preceding
paragraph, the new rate and amount shall be regarded as superseding the old.
. Article VI. Section 4.
When the transfer of land having no rent evaluation under the Land Tax Law is
effected, the transfercr and. the transferee must obtain the approval of the Pre-
fectural Governor in accordance with regulations pertaining to rent evaluations.
In case of farm land evaluated in accordance with the preceding paragraph, no
contract, payment, or receipt can be made if the amount be in excess of the
approved farm land evaluation mentioned in the preceding paragraph

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
Doc. No. 22662
Article vI
The provisions of the previous Arbiole do not ampty in any cases
which fall under the following categories!
1. When the organization mentioned in Article III obtains the
rights mentioned in the previous Article. in order to carby
out. the enterprise: mentioned in Article III.
2. When procuring farm lands for carrying out an enterprise
devoted to the creation and maintenance of a Yeoman Estab-
lishment as described in Article IV, section 1, paragraph 1,
or when procuring farm lands for an enterprise devoted to
the creation and maintenance of a Yeoman Establishment in
accordance with the law.
3. When procuring the rights mentioned in the preceding Article
for the purpose of cultivating farm land.
4. When one of the parties concerned in the procuring of these
aforementioned rights is the country, a metropolis, a district,
a speciai prefecture, a prefecture, or a Farm Development Or-
ganization.
5. When land is expropriated in accordance with the Land Ex-
propriatic. Law, or other applicable laws.
6. When other regulations are applicable.
Article VII.
It is necessary to register independent farm land vwhich is being used to found
or support an enterprise for creating or maintaining independent farmers 'in
accordance with the law'. If the aforcmentioned registration is not made, inde-
pendently-farmed land being used or to be used for the establishment and main-
tenance of an enterprise for the creation and support of independent farms in
accordance with the law' shall have no legal defense against a third party.
Necessary matters to be included in the registration in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 shall be deternined by"Imperial decree.
Article VII. Section I
It is necessary to register independently-farmed land being used or
to be 'd in establishing and maintaining an enterprise for the
creation and maintenance of the independent farmers mentioned in
Article IV, section 1, paragraph 1 and Article VI.
If the aforementioned registration is not made, independently-farmed
land being used or to be used for establishing and maintaining an
enterprisc for the creation and maintenance of the independent far-
mers mentioned in Article IV, section 1, paragraph I and Article VI.
shall have no lcgal dofense against a third party. Necessary matters
to be included in tho registration in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 shall be determined by Imperial decree.
Article VII. Scction 2.
If a person procures farm land for an enterprise devoted to the cre-
ation and maintenance of the independent farms mentioned in Art-
icle IV, section 1, paragraph 1 and transfers the same for pur-
poses other than cultivation within two years of the date of pro-
curement; or if the land be axpropriated within two years of the
date of procurement and the amount obtained be in excess of the
transfer evaluation and the indemnity received by the former-owner
for the transfer of the aforementioned farm land, the former owner
may domand the surplus amount from the transferring or expropriating
party. However, this shall not apply when over two years have passed
since the date of transfer or expropriation of the farm land.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
Doci No. 22662
Article vitII
Even though the rent be not registered, the. party bbtaining the rights in rem
to the farm land shall have a valid contract if the transfer of the farm land
has been completed.
The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 of Article DLXVI of the Civil Code shall
apply to the buying and selling of farm land which is used for leasing out with-
out registration. The provisions of Article DXxxIII of Civil Codo shall app-
ly in the cases just mentioned.
Article IX
Unless the Ic see fails to pay the rent or by somc other action breaks faith
without justification, the leasor canno refuse a renewal of tho contract or
abrogate the written 'or verbal' contract for the lease of the land. This
does nqt apply when there is a change in the purpose for which tho land is
used, or when it is recognized as proper that tho lessor farm his own land,
or when there are other reasons to justify it.
When the partics concerned sct a time limit on the rent contract for the farm
land, and when, within six months to one year of the termination of the con-
tract cither party has not given notice to the other party of the refusal to
renew the contract and has not given notice of a chango in the terms of the
contract, the terms of the previous rent contract will be considered still
in effect. However, this dos not apply when it is clcar that the contract
was a temporary onc based on the inability of tho lessor to farm his own
land because of illnoss or some othor spocial circumstance.
When cither party desires to abrogato the written 'or verbal' contract or
desires to refuse renowal of the contract, ho must secure the approval of
the city, town, or villago Agricultural Land Commission in accordancc vith
the provisions of thc law.
'Any action taken without having acquired the approval mentioned in the pre-
cedirg paragraph shall bo invalid.'
Any provision of a tenancy agreement which is at variance with the provisions
of paragraph 2 or of Articlc DCXVII or DCXVIII of tho Civil Law, and works to
the disadvantage of the lossee will be considered invalid.
Articlo IX.
Unless the losseo fails to pay the rent or by some other action
breaks faith without justification, the lessor cannot refuse a
renewal of tho contract or abrogato the written contract for the
lease of the land. This doos not apply when there is a change
in the purpose for which the land is uscd, or when it is recog-
nized as proper that the lessor farm his own land, or when there
aro other roasons to justify it.
When the parties concerned have set a timo limit on the rent con-
tract for the farm land, and when, within six months to one year
of the tcrmination of the contract, either party has not given notice
to the other party of the refusal to renew the contract and has
not given notice of a chango in the terms of the contract, the
torms of the provious rent contract will be considered still in
effect. Hovever, this does not apply when it is clear that the con-
tract was a temporary ono based on the inability of the lessor to
farm his own land because of illness or some other spocial cir-
cumstance.
When either party desires to abrogate the written contract, or
desires to rofuse renowal of the contract, he must receive the
approval of tho city, town, or village Agricultural Land Committce
in accordance with the provisions of the law.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
Doc. N. 22662
Articlo IX (cont.)
Any action taken without having acquirod tho approval montionod
in tho procooding paragraph shall bo invalid.
Any provision of a tenancy agrcemont which is at varianco with tho
provisions of paragraph 2 or of Articles 617 or 618 of the Civil
Codo and vorks to the disadvantage of tho lcssoo will bo consid-
cred invalid.
Articlo IX, Scction 2.
in agreument shall not be lndo nor shall rent bo paid or reccived through a
contract which stipulates that the rent shall bo paid in nything other than
monoy or shall be bnsed on anything other than money
This dous not opply in cases where the dobtor, at the time peymont of the ront
is due, m kes payaent other th'n in noney with the approval of the creditor.
A contr ct drewm up in violation of the provisions of the provious paragraph
will be considered to have reached an agreement oh the mount of rent which
shall heve been converted into cash in accordence with goveriumental decrse
or to have included provision for its reduction. ( hen the aount to bo con-
verted into cesh, as conmpered to the mount of farn rent or tho roduction ag-
rocment mentioned in the itums in Article Ix, scction 3, works to the dis-
advantage of the runtee or the caphyteuta, it shell be determined under the
provisions of the itums of soction thrce, Articlo 9.)
rticlo Ix. Soction 3.
hen the mount of farm lend ront or the provisions of the reduction agroo-
ment are to the disadventage of the rentee or the emphytouta in comparison
with the provisions of the Reduction-Exci.ption Agreement or cumount of rent
montioned in the folloving itons, contract shall not be concluded, nor pay-
ments mede or reccived. However, this does not apply when, for special rea-
sons, the renter or the ouner of the farm land has received permnission from
the Prefectural Governor in accordence with govern lentel decree.
Item 1: The anount of rent ond the provisions of the roduction agreenent
attached to the farm land at the time when Farm Rent Controls shall be
abolished. (In cases where aunount of ront and the provisions of the
reduction agrcement have been detormined on itoms other then money or
on the basis of anything other than monoy, the provisions of the re-
duction agroement and the amount of rent to be converted into money in
accordence with governmental decree.)
Item 2: For farm lands which are not included in the provious para-
graph, tho first amount of farm ront and tho first rodeetion agreament
to bo sct after abolition of Farm Ront Control.
Article IX. Scction 4.
When the city, towm, or villago Agricultural Land Comission doums it necessery
and secures tho approval of the Profectural Governor, it may dotornine the
Roduction-Exemption Agrccment, the mount of farn ront substituted for the
Roduction-Exemption Agroement, or the amount of farm rent included in cach of
the itoms of the provious irticlc, suction 3, pert: ining to city, town, or
villago farm lands.
When tho Frefectural Governor grents the said cpproval, ho must first consult
tho opinions of the Agricultural Lnd Conmitteo of tho Motropolis, District,
Speciel Prufecture, or Prefecture.
When the Profecturel Governor grents the forenentioned pprovel, the fact ust
be mnde public in accordance with governmental deerce.
When the aforenontioned fact is  ado public in accordanco with the provisions
of the proceding paragraph, it will be considured the farm ront or tho roduction
agreemont montioned in the various pargrophs of the procoding Articlo.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
Doċ. No: 22662
Article IX, Section 4 (cont.)
The provisions of the precoding four paragraphs apply when changing the re-
duction agroement or tho publistiod dilount of farm renti
Articlo IX. Sectidn 51
When the Governmental Administrative Office considers the amount of farm rent
or provisions of tho Reduction Agroement as provided for in the rogulations
of preccding two scctions of this Articlo inordinately unjust, it may dcter-
mino the amount of farm rent and tho provisions of the reduction agreement
which will be substituted for the farm rent and the provisions of the re-
duction agreement mentioned in the various paragraphs of Article IX, section 3.
When the Prefectural Governor is determiningthe amount of farm rent and the
reduction agreemont as rcgulatcd in the previous paragraphs, he must consult
the opinion of tho Agricultural Land Conmission of the Metropolis, District,
Special Prefccture, or Prefecture. The provisions of paragraphs 3 through 5 of
the previous Article shall apply in cases of paragraph 1.
Articlc IX. Section 6.
The provisions cf tho prec ling two articles do not apply to reduction agree-
ments or to the amount of farm rent dstermined in accordance with the Tonent-
farmer Mediation Law, sottled by court, or reached through compromise in court.
rticle IX. Section 7.
The provisions of Articlo Li, soctions 2 through 6, shall apply to farm lands
to be leased, emphyteusis, or to contracts accompanying thoso when there are
no provisions made for deposits, monetary or material indemnities, and ro-
pairing and irrigation expenses; for the amount of farm ront, for the rent of
farm land other than that included in the reduction agrecment; provided that
such shall be prescribed by order.
Articlo IX. Scction 8.
'In cases wherc the farm rent excceds the emount which corresponds to the fixed
rate of the price of rice vhich is usually harvested in the case of rice paddies,
or of the price of the main product that is usually harvested in tho case of
ficlds, the lossec or emphytouta may require the lossor or ovmer of said lands
to reduce the rent to an amount which corrosponds to tho fixed ratc.'
'The fixed rate mentioned in the preceding paragraph shall bo determined by tho
Agricultural Land Commission of the Metropolis, Torritory, Special Prefocture,
or Prefecture in accordance with the basis set up by the Central Agricultural
Land Comnission. However, this rate shall not excced 25 percent in case of
paddie-fields or 15 purcent in casc of fields.'
Matters necessary to the operaticn of the provisions of paragraph 1 which are
not provided for in the precoding paragraph shall be detormined by ordor.'
'Rules for the Central gricultural Land Committee shall be sct forth by Imperial
Decrcc.'
Articlo IX. Section 9.
Irrespective of protext, action can not be token to circumvent tho rogulating
restrictions of Articlo VI, section 2, paragraph 1; Articlc VI, suction 4, para-
graph 2; Articlc IX, section 2, paragraph 1; or Article IX, scction 3 (inclu-
ding the instances when Article IX, suction 7 is applicd).
Article IX. Scction 8.
Rogardless of pretext, action shall not be taken to circumvent the
regulating rostrictions of Article IV, section 2, paragraph 1; Art-
iclo IV, section 4, paragraph 2; Article IX, section 2, peragraph 1,
or Article IX, section 3 (including instances where Article IX,
scction 7 is applied).

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.94)
Doc, No. 22662
Artieio Ix, Sootion 1b
Any contract, or lypse, or amphyteusis which hes for its object the culti
vation of land, shall be mado in writton form and the amount of farm-rent.
terms of payment, terms of tho Reduction-Exemption Agreement, duration of
lease or emphytousis, ropair uxponses, drainage and irrigation expenses
Improvoment and other cxponsos, and othor content in raforonco to loaso
or emphytcusis shall bo clearly stated in said vriting.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
Doc 22662
Articlo X.
Tho Tonant-farmor Modiation Officer may, if ho dooms it necessary farithe
common veal in disputos over tonant rel-tions, roquost modiation in accordance
with tho Tonant-farmer Mediation Lavs.
When a suit on tenant-farmor rclations continuos indofinitoly, the court in
which tho suit has boon filed may, after consulting, by virtuo of its
authority, the opinion of tho Tonant-farn Official, submit tho disputo to
the Modiation Board in accordanco with the Tenant-farner Mediction Law.
Articlc XI.
Tho Court, if it dcems it nccossary for mediation in accordance with tho
Tenant-farmor Mediation Laws, may, after consulting the opinion of tho
Tenant-fcrm Official by virtuo of its authority, issuo ncccssery ordors for
managoment of tho ferm inrpreparation for.the madiation.
Tho judgmont providod for by the provisions of the proceding paragraph shell
be made in accordinco with the Law for Legcl Prococdings in the court in
which tho suit is boing hold.
A party violating th adjudication which is in accordance vith tho provisions
of the preceding paragraph may be subjoct to a fino not in excess of 500 yen
by the court in which the modiation is being held.
The provisions of Articls 207 and 208 of the. Iaw for!1egal proocedinga'in
voluntary jurisdiction (TN: Jurisdictio voluntcria) (HISHO JIKEN TETSUZUKI
HO) to the fine mentioned in tho provious paregraph.
Articlo XII.
If mediation by thc Modiation Borrd fails in aecordence with the Tenant -farm
Mediation Laws, tha Court, if it deens it. necessary and proper, may, after
consulting, by virtue of its authority, tho opinions of tho Tonant-farm
Official and menbrs of the Modiation Board, nd in just consideration of the
morits of both parties concerned and of ll tho circunstances of tho case,
pass a substitute judgment for the nmodiation, settling such points of disputo
as tho duration of tononcy relationship, changcs in the conditions of tho
tonancy agrcement, etc.
This adjudication can ordor th. paynont of farm rent, thc transfor of farm
land and other property natters.
Tho provision of paragraph 2 of the proceding rticle shall apply to
adjudication in accordanc with the provisions of the prcceding paragraph.
An immediato appeal con be mnde ageinst the adjudic tion mado in accordanco
with tho provisions of peragraph 1. The period for this appoal shall be
tvo woeks.
The aforomentioned immediate appoal has the powor to stop tho cnforcemont
of the adjudication.
When a sottlcnont is effectod by the Court in accordinco vith the provisions
of paragraph 1, a compronise between the p rties sh.ll have the sane validity
as a judici-1 sottlomont.
Articlo XIII.
With tho oxception of disputos over tenant-farn relations, whon a disputo
occurs over rolations botvcen adjacont farn lands, other matters in relation
to tho utilization of farn lands, tho party concerned may submit  request
for modiation by tho courts. In these cases, the Tonant-farm Mediation Laws
and the provisions of Articlo X through XII shall apply.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
Doc. 22662
Article XIV.
The court may, if it deems it necessary for the settlement of disputes over
the duration of tenancy relations, or changes in the provisions for
tenancy agreements, etc, in accordance with Article XII or XIII, consult
the opinions of the Agricultural Land committees of the City, Town or Village
or of the Metropolis, District, Special Prefecture, or Frefecture.
Article xv: Section 1.
There shall be a city, town or village Agricultural Land Commission established
in each city, tovm, or village. The city, town or village Agricultural Land
Commission shall be under the supervision of the Prefectural Governor, and
shall be respensiule for the following:
1. These maciers placed under the jurisdiction of the Cownissions by
this and other lais.
2. These matters yhich are authorizcd by Taperial decree in adjusting
of other fann land relations.
Article xv. Section 2.
The Agricultural Land col ission shall consist of a chairman and comaittee
members.
Theuchaimman:shall be edec ed from vithin the con mittee by his fellow comnittee-
menbers. In cases When the chairman cannot be elected by co-optation by the
commictee menbe s, the prefectural Governor shall appoint the chairman from
among the co ittee-members who shall have veen elected in accordance with
para raph 8.
The comnittee members shall be elected by these persons who come under any
of the following cat meries, and who have the riglt to vote for lawful candi-
dates who shall also cove under one oi these categories:
1. A person enga ed in cultivation who does not own his own land, or
who farms an area which exceeds twice ne area owned by him.
2. An owmer of a ricultural land who does not engage in cultivation of
his land, or whose land exeeeds twice the rea cultivated by him.
3. A person vho engages in cultivatio. and who owns agricultural land,
:but who does not core under either of the categories above.
In applying tie provisions of the preceding paragraph, agricultural land
owned by the head of a ho se or a family blt cultivated by a person who lives
with che fanily; or a ricultural land omed y the head of a house or a
family vhich for special reasons as specified by order does not reside on
such land, and is worked by a person who does not resiue there, shall be
deemed o be o.ned by said person engaging in the cultivation of the land.
In a plying the provisions of paragraph 3, tne head of a house or the
family of e person falling under any of the categeries of that paragiaph with
the provisions of items one, to, and taree snall be respectively, five, three,
and two.
The orefectural governor may, if he deems it necessary, increase the prescribed
number of comitteemen to be elected throu h the provisions of the third
paragraph, in the case of a specially created Aicultural Land Commission
of a city, Town, or village. In such a case, the number to be increased under
item Number one must be equal to the total nunber increased uider items two
and three, and tne to al muaber of increase shall not exceed ten.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
Doc22662
'Tho prefectural governor nay, if he deens it necessary, appdint a maximma
three connittee nenbers in addition to those elected under tho provisions
of-paragraph threo.
'In appointing tho conmitteenen montioned in the procoding paragraph, tho
unaninous consent of th cormittoonon already clccted through tho provisions
of peragreph threo shall be required. Howover, this doos not apply thon tho
prefoctural governor appoints c conmitteoman to bo chairnan in addition  Ith
the oxcoption in poragreph 2. Tho position of committoe combors shall be
an honorary position.'
Articlo XV. Soction 3.
'A porson vho has his pormanont residonce  ithin a city, town, or vill go and
who ongagos in cultivating fara lend vhose ccroago is sot by ordor or vho
owns vithin his city, town, or villago, farm land whose acroago is sot by
order, or the hend of tho hous or family living with such a person, shall
have th: right to voto for as woll as bocono a condidato for conmittconan
of tho Agricultural Land C mmission of  city, town, or villago.'
'The provisions of paragraph 4 of the prccoding rticlo shall apply 'mutatis
mutandis'to cases mentioned in tho prccoding peragraph.
Articlo XV. Section 4.
'No  rson fa ling under any of th, cat gories givon below shell possoss the
right t voto or to bocono a candid to:
1. Minors;
2.
Thoso judiciclly declared incoup tent;
3. Any p rson vho has boun sontonced to six yoors or more of imprison-
nont with or vithout hrd labor;
4. Any person vho has buon sontonc d t) imprisonmont ith or without
hard labor for a torm not cxccoding six years, but  hose sontenco his
not boon com leted or vh is not out on p role.
'Tho following persons shall not be cligible for c ndidacy:
1. A person judicially declered quasi-incemperent;
2. A bankrupt person ho is not yet solvent.
Articlo XV. Soction 5.
The hoad of the city, town, or villago has the rosponsibility of the adninis-
tration of tho cloction.
Articlo XV. Suction 6.
The cloction shall be conducted by ballot. Ballots shall be limited to one
por person. In an cloction, tho votor shall go int? the poll booth alone,
and personally affix tho name of ono e ndidat to the b-liot. However, in the
caso of a corporation, tho ballot shall be cast by an authorizcd roprosonta-
tive. The voter sheli not affix his namo to the ballot.
Articlo XV. Soction 7.
Th. candidate rocoiving a majority of the votes is olocted. In caso of a tie,
tho oldost candidcto is clocted. In case the candidates aro of tho samo ago,
tho eloction vill be decided by a drawing.
Articlo XV. Soction 8.
A committooman shall not rosign without propor roason.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
Doc 22662
Article XV. Suction 9.
Tho torn of offico for committoonen shall bo 'tvo yoars'.
Any person having tho right of suffrage under ny iton of rticlo XV, scction
2, paragraph 3, if ho has the concurronco of noro thon fifty por cunt of
thoso vith suffrage rights undor tho samo provisions in dosiring a ro-cloction,
mey issue a requost to th: hond of the city, toun, or village for a re-
election of all of the members of the Comnittce elected in accordance vith
the provisions of the sane paregraph and folloving under the sane catogory.'
'The prefectural govornor may, if special circunsteances exist, disniss any
comittceman vho has been olected in accordance vith tho provisions of
Article XV, section 2, paragraph 8.'
'The provisions of Articlo XV, section 2, paragraph 9 shall apply in instances
montioned in the precuding peragraph.'
The alternate comitteonen shall serve out the remainder of the tern of office
of their predecessors.
Evon though the term of office of a comnitteenan has expired, ho shall
continue to perform the dutios of his offico until his succossor assunos the
duties.
Articlo XV. Soction 10.
Those committeenen vho have boen clected in accordance vith the provisions
of Article XV, soction 2, paragraph 3 shall be runoved from office if they
are found to lack tho right to bccone a gandidate.
Articlo XV. Soction 11.
If the quorum of a majority of the co mittoonen of the city, toun, or village
Agricultural Land Co mission bo not in ttend nce, tho mocting cannot be
convened. Mat rial under consideration ill bo decided y a majority voto
of the pembur" prosent. In case of  tie, the conmittec-ch irman will cast
the duciding b 1lot.
'The neetings of the city, town, or villags Agricultural Land Comniesion shall
be opon to tho public. Tha connittoe-ch-irmo sl ll soo th-t the ninutos
of the n cting are recorded, nd that the ninutes are opon for inspection.'
Articlo XV. Suction 12.
A committ o-momber shell not pirticipate in proc cdings which concern hins lf
or nemb.rs of his fmily.
Articlc XV. Soction 13.
There shall be an Agricultural Lond Connission of tho Metropolis, District,
Speciel Profecture, or Prefecture sot up in the rospective divisi n. The
Agricultural Land Comnission of the Motropolis, District, Spocial Profecturo,
or Prof cture shill be under the sup rvision of the Prefectur 1 Govornor and
the Compotent Finistry, and shall be rosponsible for the following:
1. Mattors placed under their uthority under the provisions of this
'and ther' lans.
2. Matters pertaining to the adjustmont of other farn lend rolations as
ordered by Imporial ducree.
Articlo XV. Soction 14.
Tho Agricultur-l Land Conmission of tho Metrop lis, District, Spocial Profoc-
turo, or Prefecture shall bo composod of a chairnon and conmittoo-nonbors.
Tho chairmanship shall be fillod by the profoctural govornor.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.96)
Doc22662
'The position of committee-menbers sh 1l be filled from among those included
in the iollowing:
1. Those elected by co-optetion anon the c mmitteemen vho have been
elect d n accordance with the provisions of rticie kv, section 2.
paragreph 3 and who fall under iten number of the same paragreph. --10
cmbers.
2. Those clected by co-optation among th committeemen who hav beon
eloctod in accordance with th provisions of rticle V, suction 2,
p ragraph 3 and who fall under itum 2 of the save pura raph. --6 members.
3. Those Jected by co-ontation among the co.mitte men who have buen
cloctod in accordance vith ti provisions of rticle aV, section 2,
paragraph 3 and who fall undor it  thre of the san:: paragra h. --4
lembors.
4. Those nominat  by the Compet nt Ministry from among distinguished
scholars.
--5 to 10 membors.
Articlo XV. Suction 15.
The provisions of Article V, section 2, paragraph 10, Irticlc XV, suction
6, 7, and 8, Artic . XV, suction 9, pera raph 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, anc Article XV,
s-ction 10, 11, nd 12 sh:1l apply to the gricultur 1 Land Commission of the
Mutropolis, District, Special Fr fuctu., or r f cture. In rticlo xV.
suction 9 the head of th. city, towm, r village" sh 11 ruad "Prefectural
Governor"; in the stume Article, para raph 3, "t!. Prefectural Gov rnor" shall
road "Computint Ministry"; and " rticie 15, section 1, paragraph 3, item 4
shall read "Article V, suct on 2, p rugraph 8".'
Articl: XV, Suction 16.
II the Agricultaral Land Conmission of a Yetropolis, end the District, Spocial
Prefocture, or  refocture, or of a City, Town, or Villag, Land Crgenization
find it necessary to dispos of matters under the provisions of Article XV,
suction 1 or . vicl. V, section 13, it may request tie appearance of the farm
land owmer, the farmer, or others havins n interest in the land, or m y order
committcu-memb.rs or puoole "attached to the comittee office' to collect
necessary reports an concuct the necessary investigation of the farm lend
and oth r portinent places.
Article XV. Section 17.
The oxpensus for the city, town. or village gricultural Land Conmission shall
be borne by tio city, town, or village. Th expons. for the igricultural
Land Co mission of the Motropolis, District, Spucial r focture, or r focture
shall bo borno by the r.snuctivo district.
Article XV. Scction 18.
Matturs not covor.d by the provisions of Articlo XV, suction 1 through 17
pertaining to tho Agricultural Land Commissions of Mutropolis District,
Sp-cial Pr-fecture, or Prefucture or of a City, Tom, or Villago shall be
decid d by Laperial decree.
Article XV.
There will be a city, tom, or village ricultural Land Commission
in  ach city, town, or village. The city, town or village Agri-
cultural Land Cormission shall be under the sup-rvision of tho
Prefuctural Governor, and shall be responsiblc for tho following:
1. Those things placed under the Commission by this law.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
Doc, 22662
2. Those matters which are authorizod Imp rial docroo in tho
adjusting of othur farm land rulations.
Articl: XV. Section 2.
The ricultural. Land Conission shall consist of a chairman and
18 committeo-mombers. The chairman shall be clected from within
the committee by his fellow committeo-members. The profuctural
governor will nominat, three committcomen from among thoso who
have a high roputation and whose r sidonce is within tho district
of said city, town. or village, and the committeo memburs shall
be ulected by thoso p rsons vho com. undur any of the following
cat. gorius and ho havo the right to voto for lawful candidat.s
who shall also com. under one of these catogorius:
jursons ho on farm land but who do not farm said land
which is in the district of the city, tom, or villego;
or p rsons who on land in th district of said city,
tovm, or villago, tho ar a of which oxccods twico the arca
of the farm land which he has undur personal cultivation.
2.
Porsons who do not orn the farin land which they have undor
cultivation in said city, tom, or villago; or persons vho
are farming an erea which exce ds twicu the area of the
farm lnd ovmed in said city, town, or village.
3.
A purson who ungs in cultivation and who owms egricul-
turcl land in the district of said city, tan, or village,
but  ho dous not camo undur itiur of th. cat gorics abovo.
Tho nunber of conmitt.n to be locted in accoriance vith the
provisions of ach itum f the provious parograph shall be five
cach. The position of conmittco-momburs shall bo an honorary position.
Article XV. Soction 3.
Persons who have their residune: within the district of a city,
town, or village and who on the logally pr scrib d area of farm
land within the district of said city, town, or villago; or porsons
who are farming land of a logally pr scribed area shall have the
right to vot. for, as  cll as become, committ o-mombers of the city,
town, or villege ricultural Lond Comnission.
Articlo V. Siction 4.
No p-rson falling under any of the cat  oris given below shall
possuss tho right to vot. as to bucome a candidatu:
1. Any porson who has b n sentunced to six yoars or more of
imprisonment vith or without hard labor;
2.
iny rson vho has un suntonced to imprisonmont ith or
without hard labor for a turm not cxccoding six years, but
whose suntence has not beun ccmpl ted or who is not out
on parole.
The following persons shall not be cligibl for candidacy:
1. : inors;
2. . person who has been judicially declared incompotont or
quasi-inconpctont;
3.  bankrupt person vho is not yut solvent.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.95)
Doc 22662
Article XV! Suction 6.
The elcction shall b. conduct d by ballot. B. ts shall bo
limited to one pur porson. In an cluction, tho votor shall go into
th. poll-booth clone, and pursonally afrix the namo of one candi-
date to the ballot. Howover, a ballot by proxy may be cast for a
minor or a judicially duclared incomputont purson by any authorized
roprcsuntative. In caso of a corporation, the vote shall bo cast
by an cuthorized repres ntative. Special regulations may be
ustablished for those voters (including tho ruprosuntatives and tho
logel proxy montioned in the pr-ceding peragraph) who can prove
their inability to cast a ballot porsonally on cloction-day ct
tho voting booths in accordance with reguiations may do so, despito
the provisions of the pruc ding paragraph. The voter shell not affix
his nio to tho ballot.
Articlo XV. Scction 9.
The t rm of office for comittoomen shail be one year. Houever,
in accor nce vith the provisions of Articlo XV, soction 2, paragraph
3, the conmittcomon nominet d by th- prof-ctural covernor can be
roleasod from duty cven during ticir l-gal torm of office when thore
is spucial reason.
The lternate committoemon shall surve the romoinder of the torm of
offico of their pr d.c ssors. Evon though th t rm of office of
a committ oman has oxpir d, he will continue to proform the dutius
of his office until his succussor assumes the dutius.
Article XV. S~ction IO.
Those committecen who have b.n l ct d in accord nce with the
provisions of Artiele V, suction 2, rapraph 3 shall be removed
from offic, if thoy cre found to lack th. right to b-coe a candi-
date, or ii they fail to fall undur cmy itom of rticle v, suction
2, p rogroph 3.
Articlo XV. Suction 11.
If the quorum of a majority of the conmittecnmen of the city, town,
or villag Agricultural L nd Conmission be not in attondance the
m.ting cannot bo convonod.
Matorial under consideration vill be decided by a majority vote of
the mumburs prosont. In cas. of a ti. the committcc chairman will
cast th dccidin; ballot.
Article YV. Section 13.
There shall be a Agricultural Lond Commission of the tropolis,
District, Special Prefecture, or Frefucture in t!. r-spective
division.
The Aricultural Land Conission of the ctropolis, D:strict,
Special Pr fucture, or Profecture sh ll be under the supurvision
of the pr fuctural gov rnor cnd th. Comp t nt Ministry; end shall
be rusponsible for the folloring:
1. atters placed undor thoir authority under the provisions
of this law.
2.
fattors pertaining to the adjustmont of other farm land
relations as ordurud by Imperial d crco.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.96)
Doc 22662
Article XV. Scction 14.
The Agricultural Land Comission of the M-tropolis, District
Special Pref-cture, or Profocture siall be composed of a chair-
man and committo -nombers. The chairmanship shall be filled by tho
prefectural governor.
The position of committuo-member shall b. fillud from cnong thoso
includod in the follcwing:
1. In each Gun (in HOAK/IDO, the arcc under the suporvision
of the District Office) cne person will be elccted by
co-optation fro: aong the comittce-chair on of the city,
towm, and village Agricultural Lend Canissions. If
thero be only a singlo town or village Agricultural Land
Co: ission within the district of a Cun, the cheir..n of
that Conaission shall be the : erber.
2.
In the city Aricultural Land Comissions, one of the
chair on will be seloctud for that position by co-optation.
If thure is only a single city A,ricultural Land Cois-
sion within tho city, the chair on of that organization
will be the  ribor.
3.
Those no inated by the Cop t nt Ministry from a.ong
distinguisied scholers - 5 to 10 u bers.
Articlo XV. Suction 15.
The provisions of Article xv, s cticn 2, paragraph 5, and Articlo
XV, suction 8 throuyh 12 shaij. apply to the A-ricultural Lend
Orgnization of th. Mutropolis, District, Spocial Pr-fecture, or
Prefecture.
Article XV. Suction 16.
If tno Aricultural Lnd Conission of a Motropolis, District,
Specirl Irefucture, or Irefecture or of  city, town, or villago
find it necossary to adninistrate ctt rs under the provisions of
Arvicle XV, section 1 or 13, it nay request the appecrance of the
fern lond owmer, the farmer, or others hoving an intorest in the
lnd, end nay request that conritteo embers collect necessary
reports end conduct the necessary investi ation of the farm land
and other pertinent places.
Article XVI.
Local t xus si ll not be luvied on roalty procuri  nts which cre included in
the folloving:
'1. The procure.ont of lnd which falls under the provisions of Articlo
III, or the procure unt of lond for n unt rprise for the raintonence
and establishknt of yooen's lrnd in accordance vith Article VII.
2. The individu 1 procure ont of land for an unturprise for the nain-
tenance and ostablish ent of yeo en's lond as I ontioned fin Article VII'.
3. The procurerient of land by en ontorpriser, when the land becomes
uscloss to tho ovmer in his onturpriso to ustablish and  aintain indepen-
dent faring as intiond in ' rticl VII'.
Article XVI.
Local texus shall not bo luviud on rualty procuruients which aro
included in tho following:

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
Doc、 No.22662
.1. The procurement of land by an organization mentioned in Article III or
Article IV-paragraph 1 for an enterprise mentioned in the same paragraph.
2. The individual procurement of land for an enterprise for the mainten-
ance and establishment of yeoman's land as mentioned 'in Article IV-par-
agraph 1, or in Article VI.
3. The procurement of land by an enterpriser, when the land becomes use-
less to the owner in the maintenance and establishment of yeoman's land
as mentioned in Article IV-paragraph 1, or Article VI.
Article XVII.
The administrative government office may, if it deems it necessary, collect
reports pertaining to farm lands and other lands and equipment on the land,
and the officials may make a surprise inspection of the farm lands and other
places between sunrise and sunset and look into conditions, records and
documents, etc. pertinent to the farm land.
'2. When the Agricultural Land Commission of a city, town, or village is
to be established in a city, town, or village in which the number of
persons cligible to become candidatos on the basis of any of tho itoms
of Article XV, soction 2, paragraph 3 is loss than the prescribed
number set by paragraph 6 of that Article, an cxccption may bo made by
a special order based on an Imperial Ordinance.'
In a city, town, or village where special circumstances oxist, the Agricultural
Land Commission of a city, town, or villago need not bc cstablishod by Imperial
Ordinance. In such a case, the Agricultural Land Commission in the adjacent
city, town, or village dosignated by tho profectural governor shall tako
charge of such matters as fall under the jurisdiction of Agricultural Land
Commission of tho city, town, or village in accordance with this law.
'The profectural governor may, if ho decms it ospecially necessary, divide, in
accordance with the order, a city, town, or villago into two or moro districts
and form a District Agricultural Land Commission in the various districts in
placc of tho Agricultural Land Commission of a city, town, or villago.
'The provisions of this Law (excopt paragraph 2) on tho Agricultural Land
Commission of a city, town, or villa. shall apply to the District Agricultural
Land Commission of the precoding paragraph.!
3. The regulations of this law pertaining to towns and villages and the
heads of towns and villages shall apply to tho ' town or village Associations
and the Association Managers in thosc places whore they co-operate in tho
administration of all town and village officc work and officc mattors,'
and to places where town or village systom is not enforced. Tho provi-
sions pertaining to the city and mayor shall apply to thosc wards under
the TOkYo Metropolitan Office, and to such wards as designated by tho
prefectural governor and the heads of the wards in the cities of KYoTo,
OSAKA, YOKOHAMA, NAGOYA, and KOBE.
4. Any persons violating the provisions of Article IV; Articlo VI,
section 2, paragraph 1; Articlc VI, scction 4, paragraph 2; Article IX,
scction 2, paragraph 1; Articlc IX, section 3 (including cases which
apply under Articlc IX, section 7); or 'Article IX, section 9'shall be
subject to imprisonment not in excess of two years or a fino not to
excccd 10,000 yen.
5. Any persons who fall under any ono of tho following categories shall
be subject to imprisonment not in cxcoss of six months or to a fine not
to excecd 500 yen.
'a) Violators of tho provisions of Articlc VI;'
b) Violators of tho provisions of Articlc IX, peragraph 3;

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
Doc 22662
c) Any persons who nuglect to meko a roport in accordanco to tho
provisions of Articlo XVII; make a fcllacious roport; or rofuso,
obstruct or avoid the investigation and surprise inspection by tho
 aforemontioned governmont officials
6. Whonover a logal representative, an ordinary or legal proxy,. a
servant or thcir cmployeo acts in tho affairs of a person or a lcgal
body in violation of Articlo XVII, section 4, or items 1, 2, or tho
first half of item 3 of thc preceding sedtioh, the aforementionod fino
shall be Ievied upon the person or logal porson as woll as punishment
being inflicted upon the oxecutor of tho dood. (Supplomontary Law:
Law /67, 1938.)
Articlo XVII. Section 2.
A city, towm or villago Agricultural Land Commission shall not noc-
essarily be placed in a city, towm or village in accordancc with Im-
porial Ordinancc vhen the number of persons eligiblo to become can-
didatos on tho basis of any of tho various itonis of Articlo XV-
section 2-paragraph 3 is loss thin the prescribod number set by par-
agraph 4 of that Article, or when other special conditions oxist in
said city, town or village. In such instencos, mattors which fall
under thc jurisdiction of tho city, towm, or villago Agricultural
Land Commission in accordanco with this Law shall bo managed by tho
head of said city, town, or villago.
Articlc XVII. Section 3.
The regulations of this Law portaining to towns and villagos or tho
hoads of towns and villages shall apply the monaging body in commun-
ities where town or villago systems are not onforced. The provisions
portaining to the city and mayor shall apply to wards under tho TOkYo
Motropolitan Office, and to such wards as are designated by the pro-
fectural governor and tho heads of the wards in tho cities of KYOTO,
OSAKA, YOKOHAMA, NAGOYA, and KOBE. In the application of the pro-
visions of Articlo IV-soction 4, the district of a TOKYO ward shall
be considered a city.
Article XVII. Scction 4.
Any person violating the provisions of Articlo VI-section 2-paragraph
1; Article VI-section 4-paragraph 2; Articlo IX-section 2-paregraph 1;
Articlo IX-section 3 (including cascs which apply under Article IX-
section 7); or Articlo IX-section 8 shall be subjcct to iaprisonment
not in excess of two years, or a fine not to excood 10,000 yen.
Articlc XVII. Scction 5.
Any porsons who fall under ony of the following categories shall be
subject to imprisonment not in oxcoss of six months or a fine not
to cxcced 500 yen.
a) Violators of the provision of Article IX-paragraph 3.
b) Any porsons who neglect to make a report according to the
provisions of Article XVII; mako a fallacious report; or re-
fuse, obstruct, or  void tho investigation and surprise in-
spection by tho aforementioned government officials.
Articlc XVII. Section 6.
Whenover a logal roprosentative, an ordinary or a logal proxy, a
servant or other employoc acts in tho affairs of a person or a legal
body in violation of Articlo XVII-scction 4, or items 1 or tho first
half of item 2 of the preceding Article, tho aforomontioned fino
shall bo lovied upon the person as logal person as well as punishment
boing inflictod upon the oxccuter of tho doed.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
Doc. 22662
Articlc XVIII.
The effectivo dato of this Law shell be dotermincd by Imperial Ordinance.
(By Imperial Ordinanco #525, 1938, this Law shall become effectivo on 1 Aug
38.)
Articlo XIX.
Yeoman land which shall havo beon cstablished and maintained before tho
effoctivo date of this Law for an cntcrprise for the maintenance and ostablish-
mont of independant farmers in accordance with thc law, may be registored as
devoted to that purpose. Tho provisions of Articlc V; Articlo VII, paragraph
2 and 3; and Articlc XVI, section 1, itoms 2 and 3 shall apply to yeoman land
mentioned in tho preceding paragraph.
Articlo XX.
Tho provisions of Article VII end Article IX sh-ll ply lso to contracts
for farm land rento oxisting at tho timo that this Law takes cffect. However,
in caso a loase contract cxists for farm land at the time this Law gous into
offect and is to oxpire within a year after the offective dato of this Law,
oven though the notico of refusal to ronew tho contract which was given by ono
party to the other within a year prior to tho expiration dato or notico to
the effect that the contract shall not bo ronewed with certain changes in the
provisions thereof has not been dono within tho period sot by Articlo 9, para-
graph 2, it shall nevertheloss bo considered to heve boon done within that
period.
Articlo XXI.
The provisions of Article X, paragraph 2; Articlo XI and Articlo XIV shall
apply also to law suits and mediation cases for tenant-farm rolations and
other matters relating to utilization of farm lands which are in progress
at the time that this Law shall becomo offective.
Articlc XXII.
The words "items 8 and 9" in tho provision of Articlo XIX of the Rogistration
Tax Law shall be changed to "itoms 8 and 9-4".
In item 8 of the same Articlo of tho some Law, the words "tho maintenance and
ostablishment of independont farmers," or; "HOKK.IDO spocial prefoctural,
prefectural, city, towm or village Industrial Association and Union of
Industrial Associations" shall be delcted, and the following itom shell be
added after item 8:
"Item 8 - 2. The registration of the procurement of privately-owmed
land for an onterpriso devoted to tho ostablishmont and maintonance of
independent farmers according to the provisions of Articlc IV, Article
VI, or Article XIX of the Farm Land Adjustment Law."
Item 9 of the same Article of the samo Law shall be changed as follows:
"Item 9: The registration of the procurement of mortgage rights by
organizations mentioned in the Farm Land Adjustment Law, Article III or
Articlc IV, by a party carrying on an enterprise as mentioned in Article
VI or Article XIX, or by a party lending capital for the needs of the
enterprises mentioned in Articles III, IV, VI or XIX of the same Law."
Item 9 - 2: Registration of the rroenroment of rights ta lnd for an begani-
zation as mentioned in the Farm Land Adjustment Law, Articles III or IV, for
an enterprise as mentioned in Articles III or IV of thc samo Law.
Item 9 - 3: Registration of tho procurement of mortgage rights for land
dovoted to the ostablishment and maintenance of yooman land by porsons
carrying on an onterprise as montioned in tho Farm Adjustment Law, Articles
IV, VI, or XIX.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
Doc 22662
Item 9 - 4: Rogistration made according to the provisions of the Farm
Adjustment Law, Articlos VII or XIX.
Item 12 of Articlo XIX shall bo changod as follows:
Item 12. The registration of the procurcmont of ownership rights to
land which has becomc usoloss to its ownor in his onterpriso to ostablish
and maintain indopendant farmers as montioned in the Farm Land Adjust-
mont Law, Articlcs IV, VI, or XIX.
Supplementary Provisions.
(Law /64, 1945)
Articlc I.
The effective dato of cach provision of this law shall bo dotormined by
Imperial Ordinance.
Article II.
The rovised provisions of Article VI, section 4 shall not apply to the
registration of farm land rights which havo already beon made by a transferee
for farm land having a transfer agreement in cxistonco at the time this
Articlc takes cffect; or to farm land whose transfer has boen completed.
Articlo III.
Tho rovised provisions of Articlo IX - 2 shall not apply to the reccipt or
payment of farm rent with rico harvested prior to 1945.
Article IV.
City, towm, and village Agricultural Land Commissions and/or those of a Motro-
polis, District, Spocial Prefecture, or Profecture which oxist under existing
regulations may continuo until they have boon ostablished in accordance with
this Law. Mattors under tho authority of tho Agricultural Land Coamission of
the Motropolitan, District, Spocial Frefocture, Profocturo or of a City, Town,
or Village shall be managed in accordance with this law.
Necossary matters concerning the Agriculture Land Conmissions of a City, Town
or Villago or of a Metropolis, District, Spocial Prefocture, or Prefecture
shall bo determined by Imperial Ordinance when the revised provisions of
Articlo XV, sections 1 through 18 (cxcupt for the provisions of tho prcceding
paragraph) becomo offective.
Articlc V.
Tho Tenant-Farm Ront Control Act, Tho Temporary Farm Land Price Control Act,
and the Tomporary Act for the Management of Farm Lends and Rolated liatters
shall be revoked.
Approval or permission or the request for approval or purnission based
upon the Tenant-Farm Rent Control Act, the Temporary Farn Land Price
Control Act, or tho Tomporary Act for tho lianagoment of Farm Lands and
Related Matters prior to the offective date of the provisions of the
precoding paragraph shall be considered to havc boen obtained in accor-
dance with the provisions of this Law.
In the application of the penal code for action takon prior to the
effective date of the provisions of paragraph 1, tho Tenant-Farm
Ront Control Act, the Tenporary Farm Land Price Control Act, and the
Temporary Act for tho ianagoment of Farm Lands and Rolated Liattors
shall be valid.
In accordance with Imporial Ordinance #37 (1946), the supplemon-
tary provisions of Articlo V (this is limited to tho parts per-
taining to tho abolition of the Farm Rent Control Act) and tho re-

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
Doc 22662
vised provisions of Article IX, sections 2 through 7; Article IX,
section 8 (This is limited to the parts of Articlo IX, section 2,
paragraph 1 and Article IX, section 3 which apply to Article IX,
section 2, paragraph 1, Article IX, section 3 and Articlo IX,
scction 7. Tho remaining are the same); Article XVII, section 4
(This is limited to the parts of Article IX, section 2, paragraph
1; Article IX, section 3, and Article IX, scction 8 which apply
to Article IX, scction 2, paragraph 1; Article IX, section 3; and
Article IX, soction 7. Tho remaining are the samo); and Articlo
XVII, scction 6 (This is limited to parts of Articlo XVII, soction
4) becomo cffectivo as of 1 Apr 46, and the other parts becomo of-
foctive as of 1 Feb 46.
Supplcnentary Provisions
(Datc.......Law #.....)
The cffective date of this law shall be deterined by Imnperial Ordinance.
The revised provisions of Articlo IV shall apply if the following bo uncomple-
ted: The contract for farm land drawn up prior to tho cffectivo dato of this
Law in accordance with Article VI, soction 1, itom 3 of tho former Law and
the approval of former Article V; the establishment of rights by the aforomen-
tioned contract; or the registration of transfer of said land; or the transfer
of said farm lands. From the cffective date of this Law until such time as is
determined by Imperial Ordinance the words "Approval of the city, town, vir vlllage
Agricultural Land Commission" in Articlo IX, paragraph 3, shall read "Permis-
sion of the prefectural governor;" and the word "approval" in the revised pro-
vision of Article IX - paragraph 4 shall be changed to read "Tormission".
A part of the Tax Registration Law will be rovised as follows:
In Article XIX, section 1, itom 8 - 2, "Article IV and Article VI" shall
be changed to "Article VII". In Articlc XIX, scction 1, item 9 "Articlo
VI" shall be changed to "Article VII," and "or Articlc IV" and "Article
IV" will be climinated. In Articlc XIX, section 1, Item 9 - 2, "The or-
ganization mentioned in Article IV...in accordance with Articlo III or
Article IV of the same Law" shall be changed to "Article VII". In Arti-
cle XIX, scction 1, itom 9 - 2 and itom XII, "Article IV, Article VI"
shall be changed to "Article VII".

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
星
Enclosure No. ? to Tokyo's No. 695, Nov 12, 1946, subject:
"Revised Agricultural Adjustment Law" and "Bill for the
Special Measure for the Establishment of Owmer Farmer.".
Bill for the Special Measure for the
Establishment of Owner Farmer
Article 1
the family or a family member of
a person engaging in cultivation
This Law has the object of est-
who lives in the same house or a
ablishing the owner-farmers pro-
head of the family or a family
mptly and widely for the purpose
member of a person engaging in
of stabilizing the status of cultiva-
cultivation who does not live in'
tors and giving them the fruits of
the same house by the special
their labour fairly thereby con-
reason as specified by order shall
tributing to the increase of the
be deemed to be possessed by the
agricultural productive power and
said person engaging in cultiva-
promotion of the democratic ten-
tion.
dency in rural communities.
Within the meaning of this Law,
the owner-farmer is an individual
Article 2
who is engaging in cultivation on
The agricultural land within the
the owner-farmer land and the
meaning of this Law is land which
tenant-farmer is an individual
is employed for cultivation.
who is engaging in cultivation on
the tenant-farmer land.
Within the meaning of this Law,
the owner-farmer land is an agri-
Article 3
cultural land which the person
The agricultural land mentioned
engaging in cultivation is employ-
below shall be purchased by the
ing for his business on the ground
government:
of ownership and the tennant
farmer land is an agricultural land
1. The tenant-farmer land
which the person engaging in cul-
owned by the owner of the
tivation is employing for his busi-
tenant-farmer land outside the
ness on the ground of lease, loan
limits of any City, Town or Vil-
for use, emphyteusis, superficies or
lage in which his permanent
pledge.
residence is situated (comprising
the area which is, within the
In applying the provisions of the
administrative limit of City,
preceding paragraph, those rights,
Town or Village adjacent there-
mentioned in that paragraph,
to, and which is designated as
which are possessed by a head of
to be corresponding to the area
( 1 )

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
tioned in any of items 2 and 3
5. The
agricultural land
of para. 1.
which a person who may cul-
tivate on the ground of owner-
Apart from the agricultural land
ship or other title is not using
mentioned in para. 1, the agricul.
for cultivation at present;
tural land mentioned below which
in accordance with the provisions
6. Except lands mentioned in
of order, the Agricultural Land
any of items mentioned above,
Commission of the Metropolis,
the agricultural land which the
Hokkaido, a Special Prefecture or
owner thereof has proposed to
Prefecture or the Agricultural
the Agricultural Land Commis-
Land Commission of a City, Town
sion of a City, Town or Village
or Village deems it suitable that it
to be purchased by the govern-
be purchased by the government
ment.
for the purpose of establishing an
owner-farmer land shall be pur-
Article 4
chased by the government.
In applying the provisions of the
1. In cases where the area of
preceding Article, the agricultural
an owner-farmer land of the
lands owned by the head of the
owner-farmer whose cultivation
family or the family member of
an owner of an agricultural land
is not reasonable, exceeds the
who lives in the same house or by
area mentioned in item 3 of
the head of the family or the
para. 1, such part of the owner-
family member of an owner who
farmer land as exceeding the
does not live in the same house
said area;
by the special reason mentioned in
2. The owner-farmer land
the Article 2, para. 3, within the
which .is engaged in cultivation
limits of a City, Town or Village
by a person other than an
in which the permanent residence
owner-farmer on the ground of
of the said owner is situated, shall
contract for work or other
be deemed to be owned by the
contract;
owner of the said agricultural.
land.
3. The agricultural land own-
In applying the provisions of
ed and operated by a juridical
para. 1 of the preceding Article,
person or other association with
the owner of an agricultural land
the object of engaging in cul-
whose permanent residence is not
tivation whose cultivation is not
situated within the limits of a
reasonable;
City, Town or Village where his
4. The tenant-farmer land
agricultural land is located, by
owned by juridical person of
the reason mentioned in the Article
other association.
2, para. 3 shall be deemed to be
(3)

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
a person whose permanent resi-
land within which adjustment
dence is situated within the limit
of town-lots is effected under
of a City, Town or Village con-
Art. 12, para. 1 of the City Plan.
cerned.
ning Law or of the land men-
tioned in Art. 16 para. 1 of that
Article 5
Law and which is situated with-
in an area as designated by the
The agricultural land mentioned
prefectural governor;
below shall not be subject to the
purchase of the government which
5. The agricultural land which
is to be done in accordance with
is deemed suitable to be used for
the provisions of Article 3;
the altered object in the near
future and which is designated
1. The
agriculturalland
by the Agricultural Land Com-
which the government or public
mission of a City, Town or Vil-
corporation uses for the public
lage with the approval of the
or for official business;
Agricultural Land Commission
2. The agricultural land own-
of the Metropolis, Hokkaido, a
ed by the Metropolis, Hokkaido, a
Special Prefecture or a Prefec-
Special Prefecture or, Prefecture,
ture;
a City, Town or Village, the
6. In cases where, because an
Agricultural Association of the
owner-farmer cannot engage in
Metropolis, Hokkaido, a Special
cultivation on his owner farmer
Prefecture or, Prefecture, the
land by reason of illness or by
Agricultural Association of a
any other cause as specified by
City, Town or Village, the Agri-
order, such land is employed by
cultural Practice Association,
other person engaging in culti-
the Agricultural Land Develop-
vation on the ground of lease
ment Corporation or other asso-
or loan for use, the agricultural
ciations as specified by order
land which the Agricultural
which shall be used as the ob-
Land Commission of a City,
ject for the establishment of
Town or Village recognizes to be
owner-farmer or for common
a land to be cultivated in the
cultivation;
near future by the owner him-
3. The
agricultural
1 land
self and deems it suitable that
which is used as the object of
it be so cultivated;
experiment and research or
7. The agricultural land, the
guidance of agriculture, and
which is designated by the pre-
yield of which is very meagre,
fectural governor;
such as the developed land,
burnt-field and changed field,
4. The agricultural land which
or other agricultural land as
is situated in the area of the
specified by order which the
(4)

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
Agricultural Land Commission
the prefectural governor, provided,
of, a City, Town or Village deems
however, that in cases where there
it unsuitable to be purchased by
exist the special circumstances the
the government.
Agricultural Land Commission of
City, Town or Village shall deter-
Article 6
mined the amount with regard to
the said agricultural land with the
In case where the government
approval of the prefectural gov-
purchases the land in accordance
ernor.
with the provisions of Art. 3, such
purchase shall follow the plan for
The Agricultural Land Commis-
the purchase of the agricultural
sion of a City, Town or Village
land set up by the Agricultural
shall set up the plan for the pur-
Land .Commission of a City, Town
chase of the agricultural lands
or Village.
with the consideration of the
following matters:
The agricultural land to be pur-
chased, the time of purchase and
1. To give to persons to be
the consideration shall be provid-
owner-farmer the impartial op-
ed in the plan for the purchase of
portunity to purchase the agri-
the agricultural land mentioned in
cultural land;
the preceding paragraph.
2. To group the agricultural
In case where there is the rental
land cultivated by persons to be
value of the land as fixed under
owner-farmer and to make the
the Land Tax Law, the considera-
proportion of the paddyfield and
tion mentioned in the preceding
the upland field suitable and just
paragraph shall be determined
in respect of the said agricul-
within the extent of the amount
tural land according to the cir-
which represents 40 times the said
cumstances of the district con-
rental value for paddy field and
cerned.
48 times for upland field (if the
If the Agricultural Land Com-
prefectural governor has specified
mission of a City, Town or Village
the rates in accordance with the
sets up the plan for the purchase
provisions of Art. 6-3, para. 1 of
of the agricultural、 land, public
the Agricultural Land Adjustment
notice thereof shall be given with-
Law, such rate shall apply instead
out delay and the document stat-
of 40 or 48); in case where there
ing the following matters shall be.
is no rental value as fixed under
submitted to public inspection at
the Land Tax Law, the Agricul-
the city office or town or village
tural Land Commission of City,
office for ten days from the day
Town or Village shall determine
on which public notice has been
the amount, with the approval of
given.
( 5)

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
1
8
1. Name and permanent re-
spection mentioned in para. 3 of
sidence of the owner of the
the preceding Article has expired.
agricultural land to be purchas-
ed;
The applicant who is not satis-
fied with the determination men-
2. The location, lot number,
tioned in the preceding paragraph
class (in cases where the class
may file a petition with the Agri-
entered in the land resister dif-
cultural Land Commission of the
fers from its actual condition
Metropolis, Hokkaido, a Special
the class as it appears in the
Prefecture or a Prefecture, pro-
land resister as well as the class
vided, however, this shall not ap-
according to its actual condition;
ply where ten days have elapsed
the term when hereinafter re-
since the expiration of the period
ferred to shall be understood in
mentioned in the preceding para-
the same sense) and size of the
graph.
land to be purchased;
If the Agricultural Land Com-
3. Consideration;
mission of the Metropolis, Hok-
4. Time of purchase.
kaido a Special Prefecture or a
Prefecture receives the petition
Article 7
mentioned in the preceding para-
graph, it shall make a ruling
If any person who is entitled to
within twenty days from the day
ownership with regard to the agri-
on which the period of time men-
cultural land provided in the
tioned in the latter part of the
plan for the perchase of the agri-
preceding paragraph has expired.
cultural land mentioned in the
preceding Article is not satisfied
Article 8
with the plan, he may make a com-
plaint to the Agricultural Land
If no complaint mentioned in
Commission of a City, Town or
para. 1 of the preceding Article
Village, provided, however, this
has been made against the plan
shall not apply where the period
for the purchase of an agricul-
of time for inspection mentioned
tural land mentioned in Art. 6,
in para. 3 of the preceding Article
within the period mentioned in
has elapsed.
paragraph 5 of the same article
or, though such complaints have
If the Agricultural Land Com-
been made, the determination are
mission of a City, Town or Village
made to all of them in accordance
receives the complaint mentioned
with the provisions of para. 2 of
in the preceding paragraph, it
the said Article and any petition
shall make a determination with-
has not been filed within the
in twenty days from the day on
period mentioned in the latter
which the period of time for in-
part of para. 3 of said Article or,
( 6)

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
though the petition has been
3. Other necessary matters.
filed, the rulings are made to ail
In cases where the prefectural
of them in accordance with the
governor delivers the writ or gives
provisions of para. 4 of that Arti-
a public notice in accordance with
cle, the Agricultural Land Com-
the provisions of the latter part
mission of a City, Town or Villagé
of para. 1, he shall notify to that.
shall obtain without delay the ap-
effect without delay to a person
proval of the Agricultural Land
having the preferential right,
Commission of the Metropolis.
pledge or hypothec.in the agricul-
Hokkaido, a Special Prefecture or
tural land which is the object of
a Prefecture relating to such plan
purehase at the time of the de-
for the purchase of the agricul.
livery of the writ or the public
tural land.
notice, provided, however, that in
cases where a person having the
Article 9
preferential right, pledge or hypo-
thec is unknown or the notifica-
The purchase mentioned in Art.
tion cannot be made by other
3 shall be effected by means of the
cause, the public notice may be
delivery of the writ of purchase
made in substitution for the noti-
by the prefectural governor to the
fication in accordance with the
owner of the said agricultural land
provisions of order.
in compliance with the plan for
the purchase of an agricultural
Article 10
land which has been approved in
accordance with the provisions of
In applying the provisions of
the preceding Article, provided,
Arts. 5 to 6 inclusive and the pre-
however, that in cases where the
ceding Article, the area of an
owner of the said agricultural land
agricultural land shall be the area
is unknown or the writ cannot be
thereof which is registered on the
delivered by other cause, the pub-
land register; provided, however
lic notice of the matter mention-
that in case the Agricultural Land
ed in each item of para. 2 may be
Commission of a City, Town or
given in substitution for the de
Village deems it very unreason.
livery of writ in accordance with
able and fixes the other area in
the provisions of order.
respect of such land, such area
shall be depended upon with re-
The writ shall contain the fol
gard to the said agricultural land.
lowing matters:
1. Matters mentioned in each
Article 11
item of Art. 6 para. 5;
The procedures taken or other
2. Method and time for pay-
acts done in accordance with the
ment of consideration;
provisions of Arts. 3 to 9 inclusive
(7)

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
shall have effect as against the
tinue on the rights which have
assignees of the owner of the
been created in accordance with
agricultural land to be purchased
the preceding patagraph.
or of the person having the pre-
Article 13
ferential right, pledge or hypothec
in such land in accordance with
In order to purchase the agri.
the provisions of Article 3.
cultural land in accordance with
the provisions of Art. 3, the gov-
Article 12
ernment shall pay the considera-
If the prefectural governor has
tion thereof to a person who owns
taken the procedure mentioned in
the said agricultural land at the
Art. 9 the government shall ac-
time of purchase, provided, how-
quire the ownership of the said
ever, that in cases where the pre-
ferential right, pledge or hypothec
agricultural land and the rights
in such agricultural land shall be
exists in the said agricultural land
extinct at the time of purchase
the consideration thereof shall be
deposited if the person who has
stated on the writ or noticed pub-
the said right requests or the said
licly in accordance with the provi-
sions of the latter part of para.
person is unknown.
1, of the said Articles.
A person having the preferen-
In cases where the leases, loan
tial right, pledge or hypothec in
the said agricultural land may
for use, emphyteusis, superficies or
enforce his right against the con-
servitudes exist at the time of ac
sideration deposited in accordance
quisition in the agricultural land
with the provisions of the preced-
acquired by the government in ac-
cordance with the provisions of
ing paragraph.
the preceding paragraph, it shall
The government will give
be deemed that those rights be
subsidy to the owner of the agri-
created on the same conditions as
cultural land to be purchased in
heretofore for the persons who are
accordance with the provisions of
entitled to such right at the time
Art. 3 according to the size of the
of acquisition, provided, however,
land (if the said area exceeds the
that the period during which these
size prescribed in accordance with
rights subsist shall be the remain-
the provisions of Article 3, para,
ing period of the previous rights.
1 item 3, para. 2 and para. 3, the
In cases mentioned in the
subsidy shall be limited to that
extent).
preceding paragraph, if the pre.
ferential right, pledge, or hypo-
The amount of the said subsidy
thec exists on the previous rights,
shall be determined by the com-
the said preferential right, pledge,
petent Minister, making 220 Yen
hypothec shall be deemed to con-
per tan-bu in the case of paddy
( 8)

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
field and 130 Yen per tan-bu in
2. The pasture in which a
the case of upland field as stand-
person who is to be owner-farmer
ard and taking the yield, location,
of the agricultural land purchased
and other conditions of the said
in accordance with the provisions
land into consideration.
of Art. 3 posseses the right of
lease, loan for use or emphyteusis,
Article 14
the building-lot in which such
person is entitled to the right of
A person, who is not satisfied
lease or of loan for use or super-
with the consideration of the agri-
ficies or the building in which he
cultural land purchased in accord
is entitled to lease.
ance with the provisions of Art. 3
may bring an action in an ordi-
The provisions of Art. 6, para.
nary court, provided, however,
1, 2 and 5 and Arts. 7 to 12 inclu-
that this shall not apply where
sive. Article 13, para. 1 and 2 and
one month has elapsed from the
preceding Articles shall apply
day on which the writ was deli-
mutatis mutandis to cases men-
vered or the public notice men.
tioned in the preceding paragraph.
tioned in the latter part of para.
The consideration mentioned in
1 of Art. 9 was given.
Arts. 6, para. 2 which shall be
applied mutatis mutandis to the
Article 15
preceding paragraph shall be de-
If, in cases where a person who
termined on the basis of current-
is to be the owner  farmer of the
price.
agricultural land purchased in ac
The consideration mentioned in
cordance with the provisions of
preceding paragraph shall be, in
Art. 3 or a person having owner-
respect with meadow, determined
ship or other right in such an agri-
in accordance with provisions of
cultural land has made application
ordinance, taking the current price
to the government to buy the
of similar land in vicinity into ac-
agricultural establishments, land
count, and, in respect with other
or building mentioned below 'and
than meadow, the said considera-
the Agricultural Land Commission
tion shall be determined taking
of a City, Town or Village re
the current price thereof into
cognizes such application to be
account.
reasonable the government shall
purchase it.
Article 16
1. The agricultural establish
The government may, in accor-
ments necessary for the use of the
dance with the provisions of
said agricultural land to be pur-
order, sell the agricultural land
chased in accordance with the
purchased in accordance with the
provisions of Art. 3.
provisions of Art. 3 and other agri-
( 9)

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
cultural land owned by the gov-
The other party of the sale-
ernment as specified by order to
mentioned in the preceding para-
the tenant-farmer engaging in
graph shall be a person who has.
cultivation at the time of purchase
made application thereof in ac.
or other person as specified by
cordance with the provisions of
order who is likely to devote him-
the preceding Article.
self to cultivation as owner-
If the Agricultural Land Com-
farmer.
mission of City, Town or Village
If deemed specially necessary,
sets up the plan for selling the
the government may sell the agri-
agricultural land, public notice
cultural land purchased in accor-
thereof shall be given without
dance with the provisions of
delay and the document stating
Article 3 to the Agricultural Asso-
the following matters shall be sub-
ciation of a City, Town or Village
mitted to public inspection at the
or other association as specified
city office or town or village office
by order which is undertaking
for ten days from the day on
the work of the establishment of
which public notice has been
ownerfarmers.
given.
1. Name and permanent re-
Article 17
sidence of the other party of the
A person mentioned in the pre-
sale.
ceding Article who intends to buy
2. The location, lot number,
the agricultural land prescribed
class and sale of the agricultural
in the same article shall make
land to be sold.
application there-of to the Agri-
cultural Land Commission of City,
3.
Consideration.
Town or Village.
4.
Time of sale.
Article 18
The provisions of Art. 8 shall
In order to effect the sale men-
apply mutatis mutadis to the plan
tioned in Art. 16 the government
of the sale of the agricultural
shall follow the plan for the sale
land.
of the agricultural land set up by
the Agricultural Land Commission
Article 19
1
of a City, Town or Village.
If a person who has made ap
The agricultural land to be sold,
plication in aecordance with the
the other party, time and conside-
provisions of Art. 17 is not satisfied
ration of the sale shall be provid-
with the plan mentioned in the
ed in the plan for the sale of the
preceding Article, he may make
agricultural land.
complaint to the Agricultural Land
(10)

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
Commission of City, Town or Vil-
The provisions of Art. 14 shall
lage, provided, however, this shall
be applied mutatis mutandis to
not apply where the period for
the consideration of the agricul-
inspection mentioned in para. 4
tural land which has been adquir-
of the said Article has expired.
ed in accordance with the provi-
sions of the preceding paragraph.
The provisions of Art. 7 paras.
2 to 4 inclusive shall apply mutatis
mutandis to the cases mentioned
Article 22
in the preceding paragraph. In
In cases where the right which
this case "para. 5 of the preceding
has been created in accordance
Article" in Art. 7 para. 2 shall read
with the provisions of Art. 12,
"para. 4 of Article 18".
para. 2 exists in the agricultural
Article 20
land sold in accordance with the
provisions of Art. 16, if a person
The sale mentioned in Art. 16
having such right is not the pur-
shall be effected by means of the
chaser of the said agricultural
delivery of written notice of sale
land, the said right shall be ex-
by the prefectural governor to the
tinct at the time of the sale of
other party of the sale in com-
the said agricultural land. (in case
pliance with the plan which has
of the servitudes, this shall apply
been approved in accordance with
to only those servitudes which the
the provisions of Art. 8 which shall
Agricultural Land Commission of
be applied mutatis mutandis under
a City, Town or Village recognizes
Art. 18, para. 5.
to be prejudicial to the cultivation
The written notice shall contain
of the said agricultural land).
the following matters:
The government shall make
1. Matters mentioned in Art.
compensation for the loss accrued
18; para. 4.
from the extinetion of the right
to the person who has the right
2. Method and time for pay.
which shall be extinct in accor-
ment of consideration.
dance with the provisions of the
3. Other necessary matters.
preceding paragraph, provid-
ed, however, that this shall not
Article 21
be applied to the case where he
has acquired the right which has
If the written notice mentioned
become extinct in acordance with
in the preceding Article has been
the provisions of Art. 12, para. 1
delivered, the other party of the
after the public notice mentioned
sale stated in such written notice
in Art. 6, para. 5 has been given.
shall acquire the ownership of the
said agricultural land at time of
The loss to be compensated in
sale stated in the written notice.
accordance with the provisions of
(11)

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
the preceding paragraph shall be
cordance with the provisions of
the loss arisen normally from the
Art. 16, if there is special neces-
extinction of the right mentioned
sity to effect the reasonable estab-
in paragraph 1.
lishment of owner:farmer, the
The Agricultural Land Commis-
Agricultural Land Commission of
sion of a City, Town or Village
a City, Town or Village may in-
shall determine the amount of
dicate the necessary matters to
compensation mentioned in para
the owner of the tenant-farmer
graph 2 with the approval of the
land in respect of the exchange of
profectural governor.
the said agricultural land for the
tenant-farmer land purchased by
If the Agricultural Land Com-
the government bearing a close
mission of a City, Town or Village
resemblance to the said land in
determines the amount of com-
its class, area and rank etc.
pensation mentioned in the pre-
ceding paragraph, it shall notify
The indication mentioned in the
such amount without delay to a
preceding paragraph shall be ef
person to whom the compensation
fected to the owner of the said
is to be made in accordance with
tenant-farmer land, determining
the provisions of para. 2 of this
the location, lot number, class and
Article.
area of the agricultural lands
A person, who is not satisfied
acquired by him and the govern-
with the decision of the amount
ment at the result of the said ex-
of compensation mentioned in
change.
para. 4, may bring an action in an
A person who has been indicated
ordinary court, provided, however,
in accordance with the provisions.
this shall not apply where twenty-
of para. 1 shall negotiate with the
days have elapsed from the day on
Agricultural Land Commission of
which the notification mentioned
a City, Town or Village with re
in the preceding paragraph was
gard to such exchange within ten
given.
days from the day on which in-
The provisions of Art. 13, paras.
dication was given.
1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mu-
tandis to cases where the prefer-
If no agreement has been ar-
ential right, pledge, hypothec
rived at or no negotiation can be
exists on the right which has be
made in cases mentioned in the
come extinct in accordance with
preceding paragraph the Agricul-
the provisions of para. 1 of this
tural Land Commission of a City,
Article.
Town or Village shall apply for a
ruling by the Agricultural Land
Article 23
Commission of the Metropolis,
In cases where the government
Hokkaido, Special Prefecture and
sells the agricultural land in ac-
Prefecture.
(12)

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
If the ruling is made in accor-
has not been purchased by the
dance with the provision of the
government, in respect of the ex-
preceding paragraph, it shall be
change of lease or emphyteusis
deemed that the contract of ex
owned by them.
change is made according to the
The indication mentioned in the
provisions of such ruling.
preceding paragraph shall be ef-
fected, by determining the loca-
Article 24
tion, lot number, class and size of
The exchange mentioned in the
the agricultural land in which the
preceding Article shall have the
lease or emphyteusis to be trans-
effect of transferring ownership
ferred as a result of the exchange
on the day fixed in the negotia-
exists.
tion mentioned in para. 3 of the
The transfer of the lease or em-
said Article or in the ruling men-
phyteusis in the exchange men-
tioned in para. 4 of that Article.
tioned in the para. 1 may be ef-
The preferential right, pledge
fected notwithstanding the provi-
or hypothec which has existed in
sions of the proviso of Art. 272
the said tenant-farmer land at
and Art. 612 of the Civil Code.
the time of transfer of ownership
mentioned in the preceding Article
In cases where the Agricultural
shall exist in the agricultural land
Land Commission of a City, Town
which the owner of the said
or Village has made the indication
tenant-farmer land has acquired
mentioned in para. 1, it shall
as a result of exchange.
notify to that effect without delay
to the owner of the agricultural
Article 25
land and the lessor who is not the
owner of the said agricultural land
In cases where the government
to which such indication has been
sells the agricultural land in ac-
made.
cordance with the provisions of
Art. 16, if there is special neces-
In case a person who has been
sity to effect the reasonable
notified in accordance with the
establishment of owner-farmer,
provisions of the preceding para-
the Agricultural Land Commission
graph is not satisfied with the
of a City, Town or Village may in
indication mentioned in para. 1,
dicate the necessary matters to a
such person may make complaint
person having lease or emphy-
to the Agricultural Land Commis
teusis in the' agricultural land to
sion of a City, Town or Village;
be sold by the government and a
provided, however, this shall not
person having lease or emphyteusis
apply where ten days have elapsed
in the agricultural land bearing a
from the day on which the notifi-
close resemblance to the said land
cation mentioned in the preceding
in its class, area, rank etc. which
paragraph was given.
(13)

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
t
The provisions of Art. 23, Paras.
Land which has been sold in ac-
3 to 5 inclusive and the preceding
cordance with the provisions. of
Article shall apply mutatis mu-
Art. 16 if the payment of the con-
tandis to the exchange mentioned
sideration were to be made by
in para. 1; provided however, that
such method as determined by
in this case 'negotiate with the
order and taxes and other finan-
Agricultural Land Commission of
cial obligation on such land ex-
a City, Town or Village in Art. 23,
ceeds the fixed ratio of the amount
para. 3 shall read "negotiate" and
of its ordinary field, the Govern-
in para. 4 of the same Article "the
ment shall reduce or exempt the
Agricultural Land Commission of
annual instalment, or postpone the
a City, Town or Village—a ruling
payment thereof or take such
in the Agricultural Land Commis-
other measure as may be neces-
sion of the Metropolis, Hokkaido,
sary to lighten the charge on the
Special Prefecture and Prefecture
owners respectively in regard to
shall read "a person who has been
the payment of consideration.
indicated in accordance with the
The fixed ratio referred in the
provisions of Para. 1—a ruling by
preceding paragraph shall be
the Agricultural Land Commission
of a City, Town or Village."
determined by the Central Agri-
cultural Land Commission; pro-
vided however, that it shall not
! Article 26
exceed one third.
The consideration of the Agri.
In addition to the matter pro-
cultural Land which has been sold
viled for in the preceding para-
in accordance with the provision
graph such matters as may be
of Art. 16 shall be paid by the
necessary for the extension of the
method of annual instalment with
provisions of Para. 1 shall be pro
interest of 3.2% per year within
vided by order.
the period of thirty years (includ-
ing the period which it is left un-
Article 28
redeemed); provided, however,
that in case a person who has
If a person to whom the Agri-
purchased the said Agricultural
cultural Land has been sold in
Land applies for, the whole or a
accordance with the provision of
part of its consideration may be
Art. 16 or his successor intends to
paid at a time.
give up to cultivate himself on the
said Agricultural Ground theGov-
Article 27
ernment shall, in accordance with
the provisions of order propose to
In case the total amount of such
such person that the said Agricul-
annual instalment of the con-
tural Land shall be purchased by
sideration of the
Agricultural
the Government.
(14)

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
In case such proposal is made
government, may purchase the
by the Government as contem
following:
plated in the preceding paragraph.
1. Lands other than ·agricul-
the transfer of the said Agricul-
tural land which are to be cul-
tural Land shall be effected at the
tivated into agricultural land.
time of such proposal by such
terms as determined in the said
2. Rights other than owner-
proposal. The provisions of Art.
ship or the right of security re-
6, Para. 3 shall apply mutatis
garding to the land owned by
murtandis to the consideration of
the government which is to be
the said Agricultural Land in this
cultivated into agricultural land.
case.
3. Lands adjacent to the land
Article 29
mentioned in items 1 or 2 which
In case a person as specified by
are deemed suitable to be cul-
order to whom the Agricultural
tivated, together with the said
Land has been sold in accordance
land.
with the provisions of Art. 16 in-
4. Trees, buildings or other
tends to purchase such Agricul-
structures on the land mention-
tural equipments, lands or build
ed in items 12.
ings as were purchased by the
5. Right of fishery.
government in accordance with
the provisions of Art. 15 he shall
6. Right concerning the use
apply to that effect to the Agri
of water.
cultural Land Commission of a
7. Lands, building or other
City, Town or Village.
structures necessary for the use
The provisions of Art. 16 and
of the land mentioned in'the
Arts. 18 to 22 inclusive, Art. 26
items 1 or 2 after the said land
and the preceding Article shall
has been cultivated into agri-
apply mutatis mutandis to the
cultural land.
transfer of the Agricultural
establishments, lands or buildings
The government may use the
which has been pyrchased by the
things mentioned in items 6 and 7
Government in accordance with
of the preceding paragraph.
the provisions of Art. 15. In this
case, "the preceding Article" in
Article 31
Art. 18, Para. 3 and "Article 17"
in Art. 19 Para. 1 shall read "Art.
In order to purchase or use such
29, Para. 1."
things as prescribed in the preced-
ing Article, the government shall
Article 30
follow the plan for the purchase
If it is deemed necessary for
of uncultivated land which has
establishing the owner-farmer, the
been set up by the Agricultural
(15)

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
助
Land Commission of the Metro-
the town or village office of the
polis, Hokkaido, Special Prefecture
locality in which the land or other
or Prefecture in accordance with
things to be purchased or used in
the provisions of order.
accordance with the provisions of
the preceding Article is situated.
In the plan for the purchase of
uncultivated land mentioned in
1. Name and permanent resi-
the preceding paragraph, there
dence of the owner of lands, rights,
shall be determined the land,
trees or structures to be purchased
right, tree, building or other
or used.
structure to be purchased or used,
the time of purchase or the time
2. Loçation, lot number, class
and the period of use and the con-
and size of the land; kind in the
sideration.
case of right; kind, quantity and
location in the case of trees; or
In case where the consideration
kind and location in the case of
in the preceding paragraph is to
the structure which are respec-
be determined, the provisions of
tively to be purchased or used.
article 6, para. 3 shall apply
mutatis mutandis in respect to
3. Consideration.
the agricultural land, and in re-
spect to land other than agricul-
4. Time of the purchase or
tural land, the current price there-
time and period of the use.
of shall be the standard. In this
case "the Agricultural Land Com-
The provisions of Articles 7 and
mission of City, Town or Village"
8 shall apply mutatis mutandis to
in the said paragraph shall read
the plan for the purchase of un-
"the Agricultural Land Commission
cultivated land. In this case "The
of the Metropolis, Hokkaido Special
Agricultural Land Commission of
Prefecture or Prefectures."
a City, Town or Village" shall read
"the Agricultural Land Commis-
In cases where the Agricultural
sion of the Metropolis, Hokkaido,
Land Commission of the Metro-
Special Prefecture of Prefecture"
polis, Hokkaido, a Spécial Prefec-
and "the Agricultural Land Com-
ture or Prefecture sets up the plan
mission of the Metropolis, Special
for the purchase of uncultivated
Prefecture or Prefecture" shall
land, the public notification to
read "the prefectural governor,"
that effect shall be made without
and "para. 5 of the preceding
delay and the document stating
Article". in Art. 7, paras. 1 and 2
the following matters shall be sub-
and in Art. 8 shall read "para. 4
ject to public inspection for four-
of Art. 31" and "approval" (shonin)
teen days from the date of such
in Art. 8 shall read "a sanction"
notification, at the city office or
(Ninka).
(16)

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 32
owner of the said article may de-
If it is deeed necessary to set
mand to the government to pur-
chase the said article in accord-
up the plan for the purchase of
ance with the provisions of order.
uncultivated land in accordance
with the provision of the preced-
The prefectural governor shall
ing Article, the Agricultural Land
determine the consideration of
Commission of the Metropolis,
purchase as prescribed in the
Hokkaido, Special Prefecture or
preceding paragraph on the base
Prefecture may cause the member
of the current-price.
of the commission or person en.
The provisions of Arts. 9, 11, 12,
gaging in the affairs thereof enter
para. 1, Art. 13, paras. 1 and 2,
into, survey or inspect the land
Art. 14 shall apply, mutatis
owned by other person, or transfer
mutandis to the purchase as pre-
or remove the things which are the
scribed in para, 2. In these
obstacles to such survey or in-
cases "each item of Art. 6, para.
spection, but the damage sustained
5" in item 1 Art. 9, para. 2 shall
as the result of such measure shall
read "each item of Art. 31, para.
be compensated.
4."
In cases where there exists
Article 34
necessity for the purchase or use
by the government as prescribe
The provisions of Arts. 9 to 11
in Article 30, the provisions of the
inclusive, Art. 12, para. 1, Art. 13,
preceding paragraph shall apply
paras. 1 and 2, and Art. 14 shall
mutatis mutandis. In this case
apply mutatis mutandis to the
"the member of commissioner or
purchase or use as prescribed in
a person engaging in the affairs
Article' 30. In this case "each
thereof" shall read "the said of-
item of Art. 6, para. 5" in item 1
ficials."
of Art. 9 para. 2 shall read "each
item of Art. 31, para. 4" and "the
Article 33
Agricultural Land Commissioner
The government may cause the
of City, Town or Village" in Art.
a
10 shall read "the Agricultural
owner or possessor of the article
Land Commission of the Metro-
which exists in the land or struc-
polis, Hokkaido, Special Prefec-
ture purchased or used in accord-
ture or Prefecture," except in the
ance with the provisions of Art.
case where the said purchase is
30 take away the said article.
in accordance with provisions Art.
In the case mentioned in the
38.
preceding paragraph, if the said
Article 35
article may not be used for the
purpose hitherto used as the re-
In cases where the government
sult cf its being taken away, the
uses the right, land, trees or struc-
(17)

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
ture in accordance with the pro-
visions of Art. 31, para. 3 and Art.
visions of Art. 30, para. 2, the
33 para. 4 shall apply mutatis
government shall acquire the
mutandis. "The city, town or vil-
right of use of the said right, land,
lage commission, with approval of
tree, or structure at the time of
the prefectural governor" in Art.
use as stated on the writ men-
6, Para. 3 which shall be applied
tioned in Art. 9, para. 1 which
mutatis mutandis in this case
shall be applied mutatis mutandis
shall read "prefectural governor".
under the preceding Article or at
the time of use as notified pub-
Article 37
licly in accordance with the pro-
viso to the said paragraph, and
If it is deemed specially neces-
the exercise of the right over the
sary, in cases where the govern-
said right, land, tree, or structure
ment purchase the land in accord-
shall be suspended during the
ance with the provisions of Art.
period of use; provided, however,
30, the government may purchase
that one which shall not be an
or use other land (including the
obstacle to the use shall be treat-
trees on such land) necessary in
ed otherwise.
order to sell or lease as a substi-
tute land to a person having
Article 36
ownership, ,lease, loan for use, em
phyteusis, superficies or iriaiken
In cases where the use of right,
in the said land at the time of
land, tree or structure as prescrib-
such purchase.
ed in Art. 30, para. 2 is extended
over more than three years or in
The provisions of Article 31 to
case it has become very difficult
the preceding Article inclusive
to use the said right, land, tree
shall apply mutatis mutandis to
or structure for the purpose
cases mentioned in the preceding
hitherto used as the result of its
paragraph.
use, a person having the said right
or owner of the said land, tree or
Article 38
structure may, in accordance with
the provisions of order, demand to
If, in cases where the govern-
the Government to purchase the
ment purchases the land mention-
said right, land, tree or structure.
ed in item 1 of Art. 30, para. 1
in accordance with the provisions
The consideration for the pur-
of Art. 30, para. 1, the area of the
chase mentioned in the preceding
said land does not exceed the area
paragraph shall be determined by
fixed by the competent Minister,
the prefectural governor. To the
the government may make pur-
case mentioned in the first para-
chase as prescribed in Paragraph
graph, the first part of the pro-
1 of Article 30, according to the
(18)

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
plan for the purchase of unculti-
which shall be applied mutatis
vated land set up by the Agricul-
mutandis under Article 33, para. 4
tural Land Commission of a City,
(including the cases which shall
Town or Village, irrespective of
be applied mutatis mutandis
the provisions of Article 31, para.
under Article 36, para. 2) or Ar-
1.
ticle 34 (including cases which
shall be applied mutatis mutandis
The provisions of Arts. 7, and 8,
under para. 2 of Article 37) or by
Art. 31, para. 2, the former part
the suspension of exercise of
of para. 3, and para. 4 of Article
right by virtue of the provisions
31 respectively and Art. 32, para.
of Article 35 (including cases
1, shall apply mutatis mutandis
which shall be applied mutatis
to cases mentioned in the preced-
mutandis under para. 2 of Article
ing paragraph. In this case
37).
"para. 5 of the preceding Article"
in Art. 7 para. 1 and 2 and "para.
Except the cases of compensa-
5 of the same Article" in Art. 3
tion to the act as mentioned in
shall read "para. 4 of Art. 31" and
Article 32, para. 1 (including the
"the Agricultural Land Commis-
case's which shall be applied
sion of the Metropolis, Hokkaido,
mutatis mutandis under Para. 2
Special Prefecture, Prefecture" in
of the same Article, para 2 of Ar-
Art. 31, para. 4 and Art. 32 para.
ticle 37, para. 2 of the preceding
1 shall read "the Agricultura!
Article) a person who is entitled
Land Commission of a City, Town
to compensation by virtue of the
or Village."
provisions of the preceding para-
graph, shall be a person who has
the ownership or rights other
Article 39
than right of security in respect
The government shall make
of the said land, right, tree,
compensation for the damages
structure or article in the cases
sustained by the act mentioned
of the purchase or use as prescrib-
in Article 32, para. 1 (including
ed in Article 30 or Article 37, or
cases which shall be applied
of the purchase as presented in
mutatis mutandis under Para. 2 of
Article 33, Para. 2 or Article 36,
the same Article, para. 2 of Ar-
para. 1 and be a person who has
ticle 37 and para. 2 of the preced-
the right other than right of sec-
ing Article), by the act of remov-
urity in respect of the case of re-
al mentioned in Article 33, para.
moval by virtue of the provisions
1 (including cases which shall be
of Article 33, para. 1 (including
applied mutatis mutandis under
the cases which shall be applied
para. 2 of Article 37) by the ex-
mutatis mutandis under para. 2
tinction of right by virtue of the
of Article 37); provided, however,
provisions of Article 12, para. 1
that this shall not apply to such
(19)

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
1
person who has acquired such
Article 40
right after the public notification
as prescribed in Article 31, para.
The provisions of restriction or
4 (including the case which shall
prohibition as specified by order
be applied mutatis mutandis
under the other laws and ordi-
under Art. 37, para. 2 and para. 2
nances shall not apply to the de-
of the preceding paragraph) was
velopment of the land purchased
made.
by the government in accordance
with the provisions of Article 30
The provisions of Article 22,
or of the land mentioned in item
2 of para. 1 of the same Article.
paras. 3 to 7 inclusive shall apply
mutatis mutandis to the amount
Article 41
of compensation mentioned in
para. 13; in this case "the Agri-
The government may sell or
cultural Land Commission of a
lease to a pèrson who is likely to
City. Town or Village" shall read
devote himself to cultivation as a
"the prefectural governor" in re-
owner farmer or other person as
spec: to the compensation of the
specified by order, the land, (in-
act as prescribed in Article 32,
cluding the land mentioned in
para. 1 which shall be applied
items 2 of Article 30, para. 1)
mutatis mutandis under para. 2
right, tree or structure purchased
of the same Article (including
in accordance with the provisions
the cases which shall be applied
of Article 30, para. 1 or the right.
mutatis mutandis under para. 2 of
land, tree, or structure used in
Article 37) and of the removal as
accordance with the provisions of
prescribed in Article 33, para. 1
Art. 30 para. 2.
(including the cases which shall
be applied mutatis mutandi:
The provisions of Arts. 17, 18,
under para. 2 of Article 37) or of
20, 21 and 26 shall apply mutatis
the purchase by virtue of the pro-
mutandis to the transfer or lease
visions of Article 33, para. 2 or
as prescribed in the preceding
Article 36, para. 1, (including the
paragraph. In this case, in re-
case which shall be applied mu-
spect to the transfer or lease of
tatis mutandis under Article 37,
land, right, tree or structure pur-
para. 1); shall read "the Agricul-
chased or used according to the
tural Land Commission of the
plan for the purchase of unculti-
Metropolis,
Hokkaido. Special
vated land as prescribed in Ar-
Prefecture or Prefecture in respect
ticle 31, "the Agricultural Land
to the other conpensation, except
Commission of a City, Town or
the compensation of purchase as
Village" in Art. 17 and Art. 18,
prescribed in the preceding Ar-
Para. 1 and 4 and Art. 8 which
ticle.
shall be applied mutatis mutandis
(20)

=== Page 48 === (confidence 1.00)
under Article 18, para. 5 shall
tures and trees, without obtaining
read "the Agricultural Land Com-
the permission of the prefectural
mission of the Metropolis, Hokkai-
governor.
do, Special Prefecture or Prefec-
ture" and "the approval of the
Article 43
Agricultural Land Commission of
the Metropolis, Hokkaido, Special
The consideration of the land,
Prefecture or Prefecture" in Art.
agricultural establishment, struc-
8 which shall be applied mutatis
ture, right, tree, or other property
mutandis under Article 18, para.
purchased or used in accordance
5 shall read the "Sanction of the
with any of the provisions of
prefectural governor."
Arts. 3, 15, 30, 33, para. 2 Arts.
36, and 37, the subsidy as prescrib-
In cases where the land men-
ed in Art. 13 para. 3 and the com-
tioned in items 1 to 3 inclusive of
pensation as prescribed in any of
Art. 30, para. 1 is sold in accord-
Art. 22, para. 2 and Art. 39, para.
ance with the provisions of para.
1 may be paid by means of the
1, the provisions of Arts. 27 and
bond to be redeemed within thir-
28 shall apply mutatis mutandis
ty years.
in addition to the provisions
which shall be applied under pre-
In order to make the payment
ceding paragraph.
thereof in such manner as is pre-
scribed in the preceding para-
Article 42
graph, the government may issue
After the public notification as
the bond to the extent of neces-
mentioned in Art. 6, para. 5 (in-
sary amount.
cluding the cases which shall be
The Minister of Finance shall
applied mutatis mutandis under
determine the delivery-price of
Art. 15, para. 2) or Art. 31, para.
the bond to be given in accord-
4 (including the cases which shall
ance with the preceding two para-
be applied mutatis mutandis
graphs, taking the current-price
under Art. 37, para. 2), a person
thereof in consideration.
who has the right relating to the
lands, agricultural establishments,
Such matters as may be neces-
structures or trees provided in the
sary in respect to the bond men-
tioned in para. 2 shall be provid-
said plan of purchase, shall not,
ed by orders.
except the case where there ex-
ists no cause of apprehensions
Article 44
that the purhcase or use might
be prejudiced, alter the appear-
In the cases of purchase as pre-
ance or quality of such land or
scribed in any of Arts. 3, 15, 30,
destroy or remove any of the said
para. 1, 33, para. 2, Arts. 36 and
agricultural establishments, struc-
37; of transfer or lease as pre-
(21)

=== Page 49 === (confidence 1.00)
scribed in Arts. 16 (including the
owner-farmers, the competent
cases which shall be applied mu-
Minister or the prefectural gover-
tatis mutandis under Art. 29.
nor may cause the Agricultural
para. 2) or Article 41; of ex-
Land Commission of the Metro-
change as prescribed in Arts. 23 or
polis, Hokkaido, Special Prefecture
25; or of purchase as prescribed
or Prefecture to make disposition
in Art. 28, para. 1 (including cases
of matters which come within the
which shall be applied mutatis
limit of the jurisdictive powers of
mutandis under Art. 41, para. 3)
the Agricultural Land Commission
the registration thereof shall be
of a City, Town or Village under
effected in accordance with the
the present Law.
provisions of an Imperial Ordi
In the cases mentioned in the
nance.
preceding paragraph, the pre-
Article 45
fectural governor shall, in respect
to matters which comes within
If it is deemed necessary, the
the jurisdiction of the Agricul-
competent Minister or the prefec-
tural Land Commission of the
tural governor may demand ne-
Metropolis, Hokkaido, Special Pre-
cessary reports relevant to an
fecture or Prefecture in accordance
agricultural land, or other land or
with the provisions of the same
property.
paragraph, make the disposition
of matters which come under the
Article 46
present Law, within the limit of
A part of the jurisdictive pow-
the jurisdictive powers of the
ers of the competent Minister
Agricultural Land Commission of
concerning the administration of
the Metrcpolis, Hokkaido, Special
the land, right, tree, structure or
Prefecture or Prefecture and the
other property purchased or used
complaint to be made to, or peti-
by the government in accordance
ticn to be filed with, the Agricul-
with the provisions of any of Arts.
tural Land Commission of a City,
3, 15, 30, 33, para. 2, 36 and 37
Town or Village or of Metropolis,
Hokkaido, Special Prefecture or
may be exercised by the headman
Prefecture under this Law shall
of a City, Town or Village, the
be made in the Agricultural Land
Agricultural Land Commission of
Commission of the Metropolis,
a City, Town or Village or such
other person or organization as
Hokkaido, Specia! Prefecture or
Prefecture or prefectural governor
specified by order, in accordance
with the provision of order.
respectively.
If it is deemed specially necess-
Article 47
ary for the establishment of owner
If it is deemed specially neces-
farmer, the competent Minister
sary for
the establishment of
may cause the prefectural gover-
(22)

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
1
or the Central Agricultural Land
town or village" in Article 3 para.
Commission, to make disposition
1, shall read "the administrative
of matters which come, under the
extent of the Divisional Agricul-
present Law within the limit of
tural Land Commission" and in
the jurisdictive powers of the
item 4 of the same paragraph "ad-
Agricultural Land Commission cf
ministrative limit of a ciiy, town
the Metropolis, Hokkaido, Special
or village adjacent thereto or
Prefecture or Prefecture.
other area within the administra-
tive extent of a city, town or vil-
In cases mentioned in the pre-
lage adjacent thereto or other
ceding paragraph the competent
area within the administrative ex
Minister shall, in respect of
tent of the Divisional Agricultural
matters which come within the
Land Commission, adjacent to the
jurisdiction of the prefectural
governor or the Central Agricul-
said area."
turall Land Commission in ac-
Article 49
cordance with the provision of the
In a city, town or village where
said paragraph, make disposition of
the eity, town or village associa-
matters, which come, under the
tion who deals jointly the whole
present Law, within the limit of the
of the work of the towns or vill-
jurisdictive powers of the pre-
ages or the task of the offices,
fectural governor, and the com-
exists, the provisions concerning
plaint to be made to the Agricul-
town or village of the headman
tural Land Commission of the
thereof under the law shall apply
Metropolis, Hokkaido, Special Pre
to the said association or the
fecture or Prefecture shall be
manager thereof and in a locality
made to the prefectural governor
where the Town and Village Law
the Central Agricultural Com-
is not applied, the said provisions
mission and the petition to be
shall be applied to those persons
filed with the prefectural gover-
corresponding to those referréd
nor shall be filed with the com-
above.
petent Minister.
In "ward" (Ku) of Tokyo Metro-
Article 48
polis, Kyoto City, Osaka City, and
Yokohama City, Nagoya City, and
Provisions concerning the Agri-
Kobe City,. the provisions con-
cultural Land Commission of a
cerning the city or mayor shall be
City, Town or Village under this
applied to ward or to the chief of
Law shall apply'to the Divisional
the ward as designated by the
Agricutural Land Commission in
prefectural governor.
a city, town or village where such
divisional Agricultural Land Com-
Article 50
mission exists. In this case, "the
Any person who falls under any
administrative limit of a city,
of the categories mentioned in the
(23)

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
一个
fcllowing items shall be liable to
ing employed by such juridical
imprisonment with hard labor not
persons or a person acts in viola-
exceeding six months or a fine
tion of the provisions of item 2 or
nct exceeding five hundred yen.
item 3 of the preceding Article
with respect to the business of the
1. Any person who refuses.
said juridical person or said per-
obstructs or evades a survey,
son, such juridical person or per-
inspection, transfer or removal
son shall, in addition to the puni-
by an official in charge as pres-
shment which shall be inflicted on
cribed in Art. 32, para. 2 which
the person who acts, be liable to
is applicable with the necessary
a fine as provided for in the same
modifications under Art. 32,
Article.
para. 2, (including the cases
which shall be applied mutatis
Supplementary Provision
mutandis under Art. 37, para. 2).
2. Any person who contra.
The date of the enforcement of
venes the provisions of Art. 42.
the present Law shall be fixed by
Imperial ordinance.
3. Any person who, in viola-
tion of the provisions of Art. 45,
The date of the enforcement of
fails to make a report or makes
agricutural land as prescribed
a false report.
in Art. 3, para. 1, in case the Agri
cultural Land Commission of a
Article 51
City, Town or Village deems it
suitable, the .plan for the purchase
Where a representative of a
of the agricultural land shall, as
juridical person, or an agent, an
prescribed in Article 6, be set up
employee of juridical persons or
according to the facts as exists on
a person or any other person be-
November 23, 1945.
(24)

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.95)
@
Docember 27, 1946
Dear General:
18
As you are aware, the Japansse Government, under consiésrable
prodding from the Supreme Commander, has started an extensive pre-
gram of referm in land tenure and conditions affesting the farming
population. As this program is important to the achievement of ear
objectives in Japan, it appears most desirable that ScaP Meadquarters
give it all possible supervision and assistance.
The Department of State believes that a small but strong missiom
of agricultural specialists would bs able te lend scap sabstastial
support during the early stages of the reform program. I mnderstand
2
that this matter was raised with SoaP a fow months ago and that ke
approved the idea of an agricultural mission previded its membars
2746
remain not less than aix months (Cu-I 1744, 11 Jaly, 1946). Ia a
teletype conference between Washingtan and Tokyo on October 10, the
Natural Resources Section of SCar Headquarters expressed interest
in obtaining personnel to supervise the agrariam referm plans. the
six months' requiremsnt seens to us reasonable in view ef the com-
plexity of the situation.
It is the opinion of this Department that the proposed mission
should include:
(a) Twe specialists in general agricultural econemics to deal
with problems of temare and tenaney!
(b) One specialist in agricultural finamce to assist in the ro-
organization of credit institutions and to advise on tax problems;
(c) Ome specialist in agricultural organisational problems to
aid in the expansion and democratisation of rural co-eperatives and
other farm groups.
Since one of the principal purposes of the mission would be to
encourage and assist the Japansse in introdacing thoss institutions
Hajor General Daniel Noce,
Chief, Civil Affaire Davision,
War Department.
AL:HUSTOUT:DID
Hms

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
and practices considered liberal and progressive in western countries,
it is our view that the War Department could very properly inslade
this mission in its reorientation program. we are all familiar with
the baneful effects that the political and cultural backwardness ef
rural Japan has had upon that country's own history and thes upon the
world. Our aims in Japan will not be achieved unless we bring soms
democratic spirit into the institutions and life of the raral pepulation.
If the War Department agrees that a project of the kind desoribed
above falls appropriately within the reorientation program, I can assure
you that the Department of State will cooperate in helping you to find
well qualified personnel for the mission. I understand that the gemeral
outlines of the project have been discussed informally by offisers of
this Department with Dr. &'Arms, Mr. Pollard and other individuals im
the Civil Affairs Division.
Sincerely yours,
Brnest A. Cross
Special Assistant
2

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
A-111
DEPARTMENT OE STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
HO
ACTINF
ESP
Dehanfile
ES
A
GA
ACTION ESP
833
JK
DC/R
UE
BUR
FROM
FH
DC/L
LONDON
ITP
DATED January 28, 1347
OCD
CIG
OFD
UNRLSTRICTED
RECD
Feb 4, 1947
FC
2:29 PM
OIC
OFS
Socretary of State
washington
89
A-165, January 28, 1947
4
Following question and answer in re ard to rural land
5
reform in Japan took place in House of Comons on January 27, N
1947:
Ar. Rees-Williams (Labor H.P. for Croydon) asked
1
the Socrotary of Stats for Forein Affairs, in view of the
2
fact that the first proposals of tho Japanese Governnent in
847
roletion to rurel land refomn would moan that less than 30
por cent of the land at present held by landowners and
worl:ed by tenants would bs transferred to tonant ownership
and uhet even this transfer would involve a dirfioult and
oxpensive process for the tenants, what proposals he is
making to the Allied Council for Japan to ensure that a more
satisfactory systom is put into operation.
2
Ar. McMeill (Minister of State for Foreign Affairs):
"The first proposals for land reform made by the Japanese
Govornnent are now supersoded by tho Law for tho Establish-
mont of Owner Farmere, whioh was passed by the Japanese Diet
on 1lth Octobor, 1946. It is estimated tist by this law
tenant-farmers will come into possession of at loast 60 per
cent of the land in Jopan. The procedure laid down for the
tranafer and sale of land appears to be favorable to the
tenants. y right hon. Friend is not, therefore, making
any proposals to ths Allied Counoil on thls subjeot."
H
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY. This copy must be returned to DC/R centahfles wth notation of action taken

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
KANPO, 28 December 1946, Number 5988, (Saturday).
I hereby promulgate approval of the Imperial erdinanse
which determines the effective date of the Spesial Measure
for Establishment of Owner-Farmers.
Imperial Seal
27 December 1946
Prime Minister
YOSHIDA, Shigeru
Justice Minister
KIMURA, Tokutaro
Home Minister
OMURA, Seiichi
Forestry and Agriculture Linister
WADA, Hiroo
Finance Minister
ISHIRASHI, Tamman
Imperial Ordinance Number 620:
The Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers
will become effective as of 29 December 1946.
I hereby promulgate approval of the order to carry out
the Special Measure for Establishment of Independent Farmers.
Imperial Seal
27 December 1946
Prime Minister
YOSHIDA, Shigeru
Home Minister
OMURA, Seiichi
Forestry and Agriculture Minister
WADA,'Hiroo
Finance Minister
ISHIBASHI, Tanzan
Imperial Ordinance Number 621:
Order to Carvig Ont the
ASpecial Measure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers.
ARTICLE ONE. The exceptions to Article Two, Paragraph Three
of the Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers
shall be the following:
A. Illness
B. School attendance
C. Those drafted for military service prior to
15 August 1945.
D. Those persons who were elected to public offiee who

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
are regarded indispensable for the moment by Shi-Cho-Som
Agricultural Land Board and whose decision is approved by the
To-Do-Fu-Ken Agricultural Land Board.
ARTICLE TwQ. The Shi-Cho-Son Agricultural Land Board, when
carrying cut the specifications designated in Article Three,
Paragraph One, Item One of the Special Measure for the Estab-
lishment of Owner-Farmers, shall secure the consent of the
Shi-Cho-Son Agricultural Land Board established in the neighbor-
ing Shi-Cho-Son, and shall express approval to the To-Do-Fu-Kan
Agricultural Land Board before the date designated by the loeal
governor.
ARTICLE THREE. The farmlands designated in Article Three,
Paragraph Four of the Special Measure for the Establishment
of Owner-Farmers shall be as follows:
A. Farmland whose yield is highly unpredictable, such
as newly reclaimed land, scorched fields, and transformed plots
of land.
B. Land whose proximity to metal mines and coal minos
endangers its usage for farming.
C. In addition to the two types of land mentioned above,
those lands designated by the Agriculture and Forestry Minister.
ARTICLE FOUR. The authorization provided for in Artiele Three,
Paragraph Five of the Speeial Measure for the Establishment of
Owner-Farmers shall be exercised by Shi-Cho-Son Agrieultural
Land Board of the To-Do-Fu-Ken Agricultural Land Board in
matters concerning land mentioned in Item One to Five in the
same Paragraph: and by the Shi-Cho-Son Agrieultural Land
Board in matters concernin land mentioned in Item Six of the
same paragraph.
ARTICLE FIVE. with regards to Items Cne or Two of Artiele
Three, Paragraph Five of the Special Measure for the Establish-
ment of Owner-Farmers, when either of the following 1tems apply
to an independent farmer or to a corporation, their contimmed
cultivation activity is justifiable.
A. With regard to independent cultivation, when the
operator exerts his utmost individual effort to attain the
most efficient cultivation of the land or when a deerease in
productivity is considered inevitable in cases where the land
concerned is subdivided.
B. With regard to corporations and other bodies, when a
2

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
decrease in productivity is considered inevitable in eases
where the land coneerned is subdivided or when the eultive-
tion of the land is considered indispensable for the com-
tinued operation of its main occupation.
ARTICLE SIX. Those groups designated in Article Five, Item
Two of the Special Weasure for the Establishment of Owner-
Farmers shali be bodies organized by Buraku, industrial
associations, silk-worm reeling associations, and other bodies
organized by cultivators and shall be designated by the re-
gional chief.
ARTICLE SEVEN. Matters decided by Article Five, Item Six of
the Special Measure for the Establishment of Independent
Farmers shall be as follows:
A. chool attendance.
Those drafted for military service prior to 15 August
1945.
C. Those persons who were elected to publie office and
who are regarded indispensable for the moment by Shi-Cho-Son
Agricultural Land Board and whose decision is approved by
To-Do-Fu-Ken Agricultural Land Board.
ARTICLL EIGHT. The farmland designated in Artiele Five, Item
Seven of the Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-
Farmers shall be as follows:
A. Farmland which can be subdivided.
B. Land whose proximity to retal mines and coal mines
endangers its usage for farming.
C. In addition to the two types of land designated above,
those lands designated by the Agriculture and Forestry Minister.
ARTICLE NINE. The Shi-Cho-Son Agricultural Land Board or the
To-Do-Fu-Ken Agricultural Board shall determine the price of
farmland which has not been evaluated in accordance with the
Land Tax Law by relying on Article Six, Iten Three of the
Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers (Article
Twenty Eight, Paragraph Two; Article Thirty One, Paragraph
Three; Article Thirty Six, Paragraph Three; Article Thirty
Seven, Paragraph Two; Article Thirty Eight, Paragraph Two and
Article Forty One, Paragraph Three shall also be included) or
when evalueting farmland in accordance with the same paragraph,
the price set on it shall not exceed the current value of a
3

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
like land in the vicinity.
ARTICLE TEH. When the regional chief approves the valuatiom
set by the Shi-Cho-Son Agricultural Board in aceordanee with
Article Six, Paragraph Three of the Special Measure fer the
Establishment of Owner-Farmers (including Artiele Twenty-
Eight, Paragraph Two; Article Thirty-Eight, Paragraph Two;
and Article Forty-One, Paragraph Three of the same law) he
must first listen to the opinion of the To-Do-Fu-Ken Agri-
cultural Land Board.
ARTICLE RLEVEN. When the Shi-Cho-Son Agricultural Committeo
places value on agricultural installations, residences and
constructions, which it intends to purchase in aceordanee
with Article Fifteen, Paragraph One of the Special Measure
for the Establishment of the Owner-Farmer it must rely on
the rules established by the Central Agricultural Board.
A valuation placed on pastureland in accordance with
Article Fifteen, Paragraph Three of the Special Measure for
the Esteblishment of Independent Farmers shall not exceed the.
amount determined by the Central Agricultural Committee which
evaluated the land to approximate the current value of a like
land in the neighborhood.
ARTICLL TWELVE. With regard to farmland owned by the govern-
ment, (with the exceptions of farmlands purchased under the
provisions in Article Three or Article Thirty, Paragraph One,
Item Three of the Special Measure for the Establishment of
Independent Farmers), when the Shi-Cho-Son Agrieultural Land
Board decides that these lands should be offered for the
purpose of realizing the estahlishuent of Owner-Farmers, this
matter will be supervised by the Agriculture and Porestry
Minister.
The above-mentioned decision will not become effeetive
unless prior approval of the To-Do-Fu-Ken Agricultural Land
Board is secured.
In order that the To-Do-Fu-Ken Agricultural Land Board
can give approval to the above, it must secure the approval of
the minister who has juricietion over the land coneerned.
The minister coneerned can have either the head of a
section or bureau, or a repional head, exercise his authority
in accordance vith the above-rentioned provision.
ARTICLE THlRTEEN. ith regerd to ullic property and farmland
covered with forestry, when there is approval mentioned in
4

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
Paragraph Two of the previous Artiele, the Minister who has
jurisdiction over the land concerned shall abolish its usage
and purpose. Moreover, if the farmland rentioned above is not
under the jurisdiction of the Forestry and Agriculture Ministry,
it must be transferred to him.
When there is the approval mentioned in Paragraph Two
in the preceding Article in regards to agricultural land in the
form of miscellaneous property, the Minister concerned shall
transfer his jurisdiction over the said agricultural land to
the Minister of Forestry and Agrieulture. The Minister of
Forestry and Agriculture shall notify the Minister of Finance
without delay the acceptance of jurisdiction over the said
agricultural land in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding two paragraphs or the abolition of services and aims
of the said agricultural land in accordance with the provision
of the preceding paragraph.
If the said arricultural land cones under Paragraph One
and Parapraph Tvo, the provisions of Article Four or Artiele
Two in the State Froperty Law Enforcement Ordinance shall not
apply.
ARTICLE FOURTEEH. Any aricultural Land mentioned in Paragraph
One of Article Sixteen in the Special Measure for the Establish-
ment of Owner-Farmers vhic belongs to the government by ordi-
nance shall becore the roperty of the government in accordanee
with decision taken in Article Twelve, Faragraph One on agri-
cultural land helonging to the government and the provision on
exchange stipulated in Article Twenty-Three of the same law.
ARTICLE FIFTEEN. According to provisions in Paragraph One of
Article Sixteen in the Special Leasure for the Establishment
of Owner-Farmers, the area of agricultural land to be sold shall
not exceed that established by the Item Three, Paragraph One,
Article Three of the sane regarding area in the To-Do-Fu-Ken,
provided there is consent from the headnaster or family; or the
headmaster or family who do not reside there for reasons
mentioned in Article Cne.
#ith regards to the application of the stipulations
mentioned the prece inr paragraph, the area of agricultural
land to be purchased in accordance with Paragraph One in
Article Eighteen of the pecial Measure for the Establishment
of Owner-Farmers shall be the area to be sold by the government
according to the provision of the same paragraph.
With rerard to the application of stipulations in the
5

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
preceding paragraph, the agricultural land of the headmaster
or family related to the person mentioned in the preceding
paragraph, or the headmaster or family who are not living
there for special reasons mentioned in Article One shall be
regarded as a property of the person mentioned in the pre-
ceding paragraph.
When, under special circumstances, the Shi-Cho-Son Agri-
cultural Land Board's settlement of area of agricultural land
which is to be sold in accordanee with the provisions of
Article Eighteen in the Special Weasure for the Establishment
of Owner-Farmers exceeds the limitation of Paragraph One, the
stipulations of the same paragraph will not be applicable.
When Shi-Cho-Son Agricultural Land Board's settlement of
area of the agricultural land to be sold in accordance with the
provisions of Article Eighteen in the Special Leasure for the
Establishment of Owner-Farmers exceeds the limitation of Para-
graph One, their reasons must be stated in the plan for the
sale of agricultural land.
ARTICLE SIXTEEN. When a person, with intentions of purehasing
land under the provision mentioned under Paragraph One of Artiele
Sixteen in the Special Measure for the Establishment of Owmer-
Farmers at the time when the plan for the sale of agrieultural
land is being drawn-up according to Article Eighteen, finds the
agricultural land unsuitable for cultivation upon working the
said land, by the exercise of the right established by Artiele
Twelve the portion of land equivalent to the area exceeding the
limitation stipulated in Paragraph One of the preceding Artiele
shall be sold to him.
In this case, Article Five shall apply.
ARTICLE SEVENTEEN. According to Paragraph One, Articlo Three
in the Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers
persons eligible to purchase agricultural land shall be classi-
fied under the following items:
1. With regard to purchase of agricultural land in accord-
ance with the provisions in Paragraph One of Article Three in
the Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers or
Item Three in Paragraph Five or Item Six, and land acquired by
the Government by means of exchange as stipulated in Artiele
Twenty-Three of the same law, tenant farmers who are engaged in
the cultivation of said agricultural land at the time of pur-
chase (When Shi-Cho-Son Agricultural Land Board makes a plan for
the sale of agricultural land according to the provisions of
6

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
Paragraph Twe in the supplementary provisions to the la
date shall be today, 23 December 1941. Others are same a
Two) or at the time when the land is acquired by exehamge
2. with regard to agricultural land purchased in assor
ance with Item Three in Paragraph Five of Article Three imt
Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers, peres
who are engaged by contract in the cultivation at a time when
the land is purchased.
3. with regard to agricultural land which the government
owns according to Paragraph One of Article Twelve, persons who
are engaged in the cultivation of the said agricuitural land
at a time when the plan for the sale of agricultural land is
established in accordance with the provisions of Artiele
Eighteen in the Special Measure for the Establishment of
Owner-Farmers.
4. With regard to agricultural land purchased from indi-
viduals by juridical persons or other organizations after 8
December 1941 in accordance with Item Three, Paragraph Five,
Article Three in the Special Measure for the Bstablishment of
Owner-Farmers, independent farmers or tenant farmers who were
engaged in the cultivation of the agricultural land coneerned
when the land was purchased. (Persons who acquired emphy-
teusis or rights of loan for use, lease, and ownership on the
agricultural land in place of that purchased by the above-
mentioned juridical personsor other organizations shall be
excluded.)
5. With regard to agricultural land purchased in ao-
cordance with the provisions of Iten Five, Item Three or Item
One in Paragraph Five of Article Three in the Special Measure
for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers, or agricultural land
purchased in accordance with the prov1sions in Item 6 of the
same paragraph, or agricultural land wi thout tenancy which
belongs to the government as stipulated in Paragraph One of
Article Twelve, persons who are privately engaged in the cul-
tivation.
ARTICLA EIGHTEEN. According to Article Sixteen, Paragraph One
of the Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers
if a buyer interested in the purchase of agricultural land which
is on sale is not to be found or if an application for the
purchase as stipulated in Article Seventeen of the same bill
is not received because no one has any intentions of cultivating
the farmland coneerned, this land will be sold to persons in
the order listed below:
7

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
1. To those tonant farmers who are engaged in the sal-
tivation of land at the time the plan of selling the
agrieultural land is being drawn-up as provided fer
in Artiele Eighteen of the same bill for those agri-
cultural lands whieh had been bought up ascording to
the provision of Artiele Three of the Speeial Dis-
posal Bill for the Rstablishment of Owner-Farmers.
2.
To those considered capable of devoting their time
in agriculture as Owner-Farmers by the Town and
Village Agricultural Land Couneil.
ARTICLE NINETEEN. The organizations specified by Artiole
Sixteen, Paragraph Two of the Special Eeasure for the Estab-
lishment of Owner-Farmers shall by the city, town and village
associations and Agricultural Operational Asscciation: the
Sericulture Practice Union and other groups organised by
farmers wh1ch are designated by the local governor.
ARTICLE TWENTY. The City, Town and Village Agrieultural Land
Board shall bear the following considerations in mind when
decisions are made on plans for the sale of farmland as pro-
vided for in Article Eighteen of the Special Measure for the
Establishment of Owner-Farmers.
1. To put the chance to purchase agricultural land on
an impartial basis for those who are to be Owner-
Faruers.
2.
To combine the agricultural land to be cultivated by
the would-be Owner-Farmers and to divide the land
concerned in a fairly in accordance with the eireum-
stances of the area concerned.
ARTICLE TWENTY QNE. The Government shall complete the purehase
of land according to Chapter Fifteen on the Special Measure for
the Establishment of Owner-Farmers and the sale of land as pro-
vided for in Chapter Sixteen of the same bill by 31 December 1948.
The Shi-Cho-Son Agricultural Land Board shall make immedi-
ate plans for the purchase of agricultural land as provided for
in Article Six on the Special Measure for the Establishment of
Owner-Farmers and the plan for the sale of agricultural land
as provided for in Artiele Eighteen of the same bill to be eom-
pleted by the 31 October 1948.
ARTICLE TWENIY THO. With regards to those persons to whom the
sale of agricultural land was made according to Artiele Sixteen,
8

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
Paragraph Cne of the Special Measure for the Establishmemt of
Owner-Farmers, or those to whom the sale of land was made by
virtue of Article Thirty, Paragraph One, Items One to Three
of the same bill as provided for in Artiele Forty One, Para-
graph One of the same bill, or any suecessor to the ownershlp
of the said land who plans to diseontinue further farming of
his own or to develop the land concerned, the local governor
shall (excepting temporary suspension of farming or develeping
the land which results from unavoidable reasons sueh as ill-
ness, education and assuming public office through eleotion)
make proposals for the sale of the said land to the government
provided in Article Twenty Eight, Paragraph One of the same
bill. (This step shall also apply to situations mentioned in
Article Forty One, Paragraph Three.)
ARTICLE TAENTY TIIREE. The Government, upon purchase of agri-
cultural land by Article Twenty Eight on the Special Measure
for the Establishment or Owner-Farmers shell immediately make
the land available for sale to those farmers deemed capable of
operating the farm successfully. Article Ten: Artiele Sixteen,
Paragraph Two; Article Seventeen; Article Eighteen, Paragraph
One to Paragraph Three or Five; Article Twenty; Artiele Twenty
One; and Artiele Twenty Six of the Special Measure for the
Establishment of Owner-Farmers shall apply to the sales as
provided for in the preceding paragraph. In this ease, Artiele
Three, Article Six, and the preceding Article of Artiele Ten
should read 'Article Twenty'.
ARTICLh TuElITY FOUR. Those who shall qualify for the right to
purehase the agriculturel facilities, land or buildings pur-
chased by the Government as provided for in Artiele Fifteen on
the Speeial Weasure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers shall
be as follows:
1。
With regards to agricultural facilities, those persons
who possess the right to lease or rights to use
facilities accruing from the lease to whom the sale
of the agricultural land was rade as provided for in
Article Sixteen of the same bill. In case no one has
these rights, those persons to whom the sale of agri-
cultural land was made through the same provision
and in which the agricultural facilities concerned
is necessary for use in the agricultural land eon-
cerned.
2.
Regarding land and buildings those persons (to whom
the sale of agricultural land was made) who are
vested with the right of lease or the right of lease
9

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
to utilize the above, perpetual lease of land,
and surface rights.
ARTICLE TWEHTY FIVE. The valuation of farm-land other than
that mentioned in Article Thirty One, Paragraph One of the
Special Measure for Establishment of Owner-Farmers (This also
applies to cases of Article Thirty Seven, Paragraph Twe, and
Artiole Thirty Eight, Paragraph Two of the same law.) shell
accord with the current price prescribed by the Central Agri-
cultural Land Board on the basis of the price of land elosely
resembling the said land when it does not bear any bambee or
trees. In cases where the said land bears bambeo or trees,
the total rice must not exceed the combined priee of the said
trees or bamboo and the value placed on the farm-land by the
Central Agricultural Land Board based on the priee of land
closely resembling the said land. However, under special eases,
the valuation can be established by the To-Do-Fu-Ken Agrieulture
Land Board or the Shi-Cho-Son Agriculture Land Board when the
approval of the local governor is secured.
The value placed on the trees and bamboo mentioned in the
preceding paragraph shall correspond to the current priee of
a tree and bamboo closely resembling it.
The valuation determined to Paragraph One of the momo-
randum prescribed by the Shi-Cho-Son snd To-Do-Fu-Ken Agri-
culturs Land Board shall not exceed the current priee of land
bearing a close resemblance to the said land in its class.
The To-Do-Fu-Ken or the Shi-Cho-Son Agriculture Land Board,
when placing & value on rights and on trees or construetions
and projects according to Article Thirty One, Paragraph Two
(This also applys to the cases of Artiele Thirty Seven, Para-
graph Two, and Article Thirty Eight, Paragraph Two of the same
law.) of the Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-
Ferrers shall do so according to standards preseribed by the
Central Agriculture Land Board.
ARTICLE TWENTY SIX. When the local governor determines the
value of land rights, trees or struetures other than farmland
in accordance with Article Thirty Six, Paragraph Two (This
alsc includes the cases applied in Article Thirty Seven, Pare-
graph One of the samc law.) of the Special Measure for Estab-
lishment of Owner-Farmers, previous article shall be applieable.
In the same artiele Paragraph One of the memorandum "The Te-Do-
Pu-Ken Agriculture Land Board shall have the approval of the
rovisional governor" whall be changed to "The Local governor
shall approve."
ARTICLE TWENTY SEVEN. The local governor shall notify purchaser
10

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
or lessor coneerning land (Includes trees on the said land.
This applies to the remainder of this article) which is
purchased or used by the Government in accord with Artiele
Thirty Seven of the pecial Eeasure for the Establishment
of Owner-Farmers, or the sale or lease of land made aceording
to Paragraph One, Iter Four, which has been decided upon by
Artiole Thirty One, Paragraph One.
Article Seventeen, Article Twenty One, Paragraph Two,
and Article Twenty One of the Special Measure for the
Establishment of Owner-Farmers shall apply to such cases as
the preceding article.
The payment for land which has been sold according to
Paragraph One shall be vaid in an appropriate annual install-
ment basis provided by order. However, if there is a request
by the purchaser of the said land, he may pay the sum either
in full amount or by partial payrents.
ARTICLE TWBATY IGHT. Restrictions and prohibitions stipu-
lated in other laws which are not mentioned in Article Forty
of the For The Establishment of Owner-Farmers Special Measure
are as follows:
1. Article Nineteen of the River Law.
2. Article Pour of the River Area Restriction Order.
3.
ArticlesThree and Four and Nine of the Planned River
Area Hestriction Order.
4.
Article Eight, Paragraph Twc of the National Park Law.
5.
Article Sixteen, Paragraph One of the National Park
Law Enforcement Order.
Article Four of the Sand Dam Law. (Includes cases
when applied in Article Three of the same law.)
7.
Articles Three and Four of the Historical and Scenic
Spots National Monument Preservation Law.
8.
Article Four of the Historical and Scenic Spots
Natural Monument Preservation Law Enforcement Order.
9. Articles Twenty Six and Thirty Two of the Forestry Law.
10. Articles One and Eight of the. Makino Law.
1l. Article One of the Makino Law Enforcement Order.
11

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
12. Restrictions or prohibition relating to the provisioms
on land development issued by the respeetive lesal
governor according to Artiele Three of the Tokye
Metropolis Government System, Artiele Four of the
Hokkaido Government Syster, and Artiele Six of the
local Government System.
ARTICLE ThENTY NINE. The persons coming under Article Forty
One, Paragraph Cne of the Special Measure for the Establishment
of Owner-Farvers shall be the following persons:
1. To-Do-Fu-Ken.
2. Chi-Cho-Son (Including the Shi-Cho-Son associations.)
3.
Persons performing duty related to farming and who
were selected by the Central, To-Do-Fu-Ken, and
Shi-Cho-Son Agriculture Land 'Board.
ARTICLr TI TY. The Govern ent must sell the said land to
persons prescribed according to Article Forty One, Paragraph
One of the Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-
Farmers without delay in case the land is purchased according
to Article Twenty  ight of the same law which is applied to
Article Forty One, Paragraph Three of the same law.
In regard to the sale made according to the provision
in the preceding paragraph, the regulation prescribed in
Article Forty One, Paragraph Two, of the For The Establishmont
of Owner-Farrers Special Measure shall apply.
ARTICLE TliIRTY Olh. Any property or material which belongs to
the Government (Excluding property and material purchased in
accordance with Articles Three, Fifteen, Thirty, Thirty Six
and Thirty Seven of the Special Measure for Establishment of
Owner-Farmers which shall be deterrined by the To-Do-Fu-Ken
Agricultural Land Board (as coming under any one of the follow-
ing provisions) shall be placed under the supervision of the
kinister of Agriculture:
1. Land which is considered suitable for cultivation.
2.
Trees, buildings and other projects whioh are on the
land which are considered suitable for the develop-
ment of the land.
3.
Land, trees, buildings, and other projeots which will
be beneficial to the land already cultivated.
4.
With regards to land which was purchased in accordanee
12

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
with the stipulations of Artiele Thirty of the
Special Heasure for Rstablishment of Oener-Farmers,
and at the time of its purehase whose owmership
rights, leasing rights, rights from usage leases,
permanent tenancy rights, terrestrial rights, and
the menbership right belonged to parsons to whom it
is now considored proper to lease or to sell. (Trees
on the land in question to be ingluded.) In above-
mentioned instances, Paragraphs Two and Four of
Article Twelve Article Thirteen shall apply. In this
event, the sanetion of the Agricultural Land Board of
the To-Dc-F-Ken oan also be interpreted as the
sanction of the provincial governor.
A TIC TiL TY T0. The Government can sell or lease land and
properties which belong to the Government in accordanee to the
decision of Paragraph One of the preceding article (with the
exception of land coning under provision: One and Four of the
preceding paragraph.) to those people as stipulated in Artiele
Four, Paragraph One of the Special Measure for the Eatablish-
ment of Owner-Farmers.
"ith regards to purchases and leases in accordance to
the preceding parafraph, Article Seventeen: Article Eighteenj
Taragraph Cne, Three and Five; Article Twenty; Artiele Twenty
One; and Article Twenty Six of the Special Measure shell epply.
In this event, the phrese mentioned in Article Eight applied
according to Article Seventeen: article Lighteen, Paragraphs
Cr.e and Five "Shi-Cho-lon Agricu'tural Land Board" shall be
changed to "Tc-Do-Fu-Ken  gricultural Land Board" and the
wordings "m e  pproval of the To-Do-Fu-Ken Agricultural Board
shall he changed to the " anction of the Local governor."
ARTICLE TUIRTY THRSE. The government can loan without charg
or enable the people to utilize and make profit off the land
and nroperty which belongs to the Government as stipuleted in
rticle Thirty Onc, aragreph One (with the exception of Itom
1 of the same paragraph) and the land, property, rights and
manufactured goods which were bought or utilized in accordanee
to the refulstions of Artiele Thirty of the Article Four,
ararraph Cne of the Svecial easure.
In case of the fore enrioned care, Paregraphs One and Two
of Article Twenty Feven shall apply.
c   Fo. The inister of Agriculture shall super
vise alt land rirht, rees, ranufectured articles, and other
articles whth pre considered povernment owned which were
urchased by the Governwent in accordance to the regulations
13

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
as stipulated in Article Twenty Right, Paragraph Ome (Inelmaing
when applied in Paragraph Three of Artiele Forty Ome of the
same law) or by purchases in accordanee to regulations stipu-
lated in Articles Three, Pifteen, Thirty, Paragraph Tee of
Artiele Thirty Three, and Artieles Thirty Six and Thirty Seven
of the Special Measure or by exchanges in assordanee to the
regulations of Article Twenty Three.
ARTICLE THIRTY FIVE. All necessary matters in regards to the
accounting book concerning Government properties as stipulated
in the preceding article and Government properties as stipe-
lated in Paragraph One of both Articles Twenty Three and Thirty
One and other matters that should be written in the aesounting
book shall be determined by the Minister of Agriculture in
consultation with the Finanee Winister.
In regards to the State property as stipulated in the pre-
ceding paragraph, the reguletion of Article Thirty Three of
the Government Property Law Enforcement Ordinanee shall not be
applicable.
ARTICLE THIRTY SlX. The following shall be determined by orders
of Article Forty Six of the Special Measure for the Establish-
ment of Owner-Farmers:
1. Agricultural Land Developing Organisation.
2. To-Do-Fu-Ken.
3.
People who have been working in conneetion with
agriculture and have been designated to do so by
either the Central Agricultural Land Board, To-Do-
Fu-Ken Agricultural Land Board or the Shi-Cho-Son
Agricultural Land Board.
ARTICLE THIRTY SEVEN. Public announcements in regards to the
Speciel Measure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers and
orders based on the same law when made by the Central Agri-
cultural Land Board should be done in the same manner as eabinet
order announcements; when made by the local governer or To-Do-
Fu- en Agricultural Land Board, it should be done in the same
manner as the Tokyo-To-Order, Hokkaido-Cho-Order or Fu-Ken Order
announcements; and when done'by the Shi-Cho-Son Agrieultural
Land Board it should be announced on the bulletin board of the
City Hall or the Cho-Son Office.
ARTICLE THLATY ElGHT. The word concerned Minister whieh is
usod in the Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-
Farmers shall be changed to the Linister of Agrieulture.
14

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
ARTICLE THIRTY NINE. The Minister of Agriculture when he deems
It especially necessary in regards to the establishment of Ommer-
Farmer can delegate authority to the local govermor or to the
Central Agricultural Land Board to handle matters origimally
handled by the To-Do-Fu-Ken Agricultural Land Board as determined
by the Imperial Ordinance.
In regards to these matters which were delegated to the
local governor and to the To-Do-Fu-Ken Agricultural Land Beard
as specified in the preceding paragraph, the Minister of Agri-
culture shall deal with these matters which were delegated to
the local governor as determined by the Imperial Ordinanee.
ARTICLE FORTY. The regulations in regards to the Shi-Che-Son
Agricultural Land Board mentioned in the Imperial Ordinamee
shall be applied by the District Agricultural Land Board to
the Shi-Cho-Son districts where the Distriet Agrieultural Land
Board is established. In this event, "the Shi-Cho-Son Agri-
cultural Land Board established in the neighboring Shi-Cho-
Son concerned" cf Article Two shall be changed to the "Shi-Cho-
Son Agricultural Land Board established in the neighboring
Shi-Cho-Son concerned or the District Agricultural Land Board
established 1n the neighboring district of the distriet eon-
cerned.
ARTICLE FORTY ONE. The regulations in regards to the Cho-Son
in the Imperial Ordinance shall apply to all of the town and
village office, business offices or to the Cho-Son association
in places where town and village cffice business affairs are
managed jointly ty the Cho-Son association while at places
where the Cho-Son system does not exist the next in line shall
take charge. Regulations concerning cities, shall be applied
to the words of Tokyo Metropolis and the governor designated
wards of Kyoto, Osaka, Yokohara, Nagoya and Kobe eities re-
spectively.
Supplementar, Regulations
ARTICLE FORTY TWO. This Imperial Ordinance shall be enforced
from the 29th of December 1946.
ARTICLE FORTY THREE. When tenant farmers who have been ongaged
1n farring as of November 23, 1945 made a request to the sh1-
Cho-Son Agricultural Land Board that the agricultural land pur-
chasing plans should be established based on the regulation in
Paragraph Two of the Supplementary Regulations on the Special
Measure for the Esteblishment of Owner-Farmers in regards to
the agricultural land concerned, the Sh1-Cho-Son Agricultural
Land Board in respect to the agricultural land must aceording
to the regulation of the same paragraph establish the agri-
cultural land purchasing plans based upon the conditions pre-
va111ng on 23rd November 1945.
15

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
ABTICLE FORTY FOUR. When a request is madé aceording to the
provision prescribed in the preceding artiele, and if the farm
provision, Paragraph Two of the Special Measure for Establish-
ment of Owner-Farmers in regard to such farm land at the givem
request of the Shi-Cho-Son Agricultural Land Board, the persem
concerned who made the said request can demand a clarifieatiom
of such decision of the farm land purchasing plan made mecording
to the same paragraph of the said Shi-Cho-Son Farm Land Board
to the To-Do-Fu-Ken Farm Land Board within the period of ome
month after the decision is given.
ARTICLE FORTY FIVE. During the Fare Land Purchasing Plan 1s
drawn up according to the Article Six of the Special Measure
and 23 Novenber 1946 persons having rights such as owmersh1p,
lease rights and lease usage, or a permanent tenant rights,
the Shi-Cho-Son Farm Land Board shail deliberate on whether
or not decision on the Farm Land Purchasing Plan based on the
conditions prevailing of 23 Noverber 1945 according to the
stipulation of Paragraph Two of the supplementary provisions
of the same law with regards to different farm land.
The Shi-Cho-Son Farm Land Board, when deliberating on
the preceding matter shall state cause in its committee
minute records if the Farm Land Purchasing Plan is rejected
based on the conditions prevailing on 23 November, 1945
according to Paragraph Two of the Supplementary Provision
of the Special Measure.
ARTICLE FORTY SIX. A part of the Fisheries Registration Order
will be revised as follows:
The following iten will be added to Item Five of Artiele
Sixteen:
6.
The transfer or cancellation of fishing right which
had been bought up under the Special Measure for the
Establishment of Owner-Farmers or the cancellation
of right to enter the fishing industry or privileges
which are aimed toward participation in fishing.
ARTICLE FORTY SEVEN. A part of the Agricultural Land Adjustment
Law Enforcement Order shall be revised as follows:
'Or Article Forty One Paragraph One' of Article Two and
Article Seven shall be changed to 'elther Article Forty
One Paragraph One or Article Twenty Three Paragraph
Twenty Three, Article Thirty Paragraph One Article Thirty
Two Paragraph Cne of the Special Weasure for the Establish-
ment of Owner-Farmers enforcement order.
16

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
Eovember, 1945 according to Paragraph Two of the Supplemestary
Provision of the Special Measure.
ABTICLE FORTY gIX. A part of the Fisheries Registratien Order
will be revised as follows:
The following item will be added to Item Five of Artiele
Sixteen.
6. The transfer or cancellation of fishing right whish
had been bought up under the Special Measure Fer The
Establishment of Owner-Farmers or the eameellatien of
right to enter the fishing industry or priveleges whisk
are aimed toward participation in fishing.
ARTICLE FORTY SEVEN. A pert of the Agricultural Land Adjustment
Law Enforcement Order shall be revised as follows:
'Or Article Forty One Paragraph One' of Artiele Twe end
Artiele Seven shall be changed to 'either Artiele Forty
One Paragraph One or Artiele Twenty Thres Paragraph Twenty
Three, Article Thirty Paragraph One Artiele Thirty Twe
Paragraph One of the Speeial Measure For The Establishment
of owner-Farmers enforcement order.
'Or Article Thirty One Paragraph One Item Three or Item
Four of the Special Measure For The Establishment Of small
land holders enforcement order' shall be added after
'Article Sixteen or Article Thirty Paragraph One Number
Two of the same bill'.
'Artiele Seventeen' of Article Thirty Nine shall be changed
to 'Article Fifteen'.
'Article Twenty Nine' of Artiole Forty Three shall be
changed to 'Article Twenty Eight Paragraph Three'
ARTICLE FORTY EIGHT. A part of the organization for the Land
Development Committee shall be revised as follows:
'Or the Central Agricultural Land Board' after 'Agrieultural
Minister' in Article One Paragraph Three and 'Or To-Do-Fu-
Ken, Land Board' after 'Local Governor' shall be added.
17

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
Enl4
KANPO, 28 December 1946, Number 5988, (Saturday).
I hereby promulgate approval of the Imperial Ordinance
which determines the effective date of the Speeial Measure
for Bstablishment of Owner-Farmers.
Imperial Seal
27 December 1946
Prime Minister
YOSHIDA, Shigeru
Justice Minister
KIMURA, Tokutaro
Home Minister
OMURA, Seiichi
Forestry and Agriculture Minister
WADA, Hiroo
Finance Minister
ISHIBASHI, Tanzan
Imperial Ordinance Number 620:
The Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers
will become effective as of 29 December 1946.
I hereby promulgate approval of the order to earry out
the Special Measure for Establishment of Independent Farmers.
Imperial Seal
27 December 1946
Prime Minister
YOSHIDA, Shigeru
Home Minister
OMURA, Seiichi
Forestry and Agriculture Minister
WADA, Hiroo
Finance Minister
ISHIBASHI, Tanzan
Imperial Ordinance Number 621:
On en to Carry Out The
Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers.
ARTICLE ONE. The exceptions to Artiele Two, Paragraph Three
of the Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner-Farmers
shall be the following:
A. Illness
B. School attendance
C. Those drafted for military service prior to
15 August 1945.
D. Those persons who were eleeted to public offiee who

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
are regarded indispensable for the moment by Shi-Cho-Son
Agricultural Land Board and whose decision is approved by the
To-Do-Fu-Ken Agrioultural Land Board.
ARTICLE TWO. The Shi-Cho-Son Agricultural Land Board, when
carrying out the specifications designated in Article Three,
Paragraph One, Item One of the Special Measure for the Estab-
lishment of Owner-Farmers, shall secure the consent of the
Shi-Cho-Son Agricultural Land Board established in the neighbor-
ing Shi-Cho-Son, and shall express approval to the To-Do-Fu-Ken
Agricultural Land Board before the date designated by the loeal
governor.
ARTICLE THREE. The farmlands designated in Artiele Three,
Paragraph Four of the Special Measure for the Establishment
of Owner-Farmers shall be as follows:
A. Farmland whose yield is highly unpredictable, such
as newly reelaimed land, scorched fields, and transformed plots
of land.
B. Land whose proximity to metal mines and coal mines
endangers its usage for farming.
C. In addition to the two types of land montioned above,
those lands designated by the Agriculture and Forestry Minister.
ARTICLE FOUR. The authorization provided for in Article Three,
Paragraph Five of the Special Measure for the Establishment of
Owner-Farmers shall be exercised by Shi-Cho-Son Agrieultural
Land Board of the To-Do-Fu-Ken Agricultural Land Board in
matters concerning land mentioned in Item One to Five in the
same Paragraph: and by the Shi-Cho-Son Agricultural Land
Board in matters concerning land mentioned in Item Six of the
same paragraph.
ARTICLE FIVE. With regards to Items One or Two of Artiele
Three, Paragraph Five of the Special Measure for the Establish-
ment of Owner-Farmers, when either of the following items apply
to an independent farmer or to a corporation, their contimmed
cultivation activity is justifiable.
A. With regard to independent cultivation, when the
operator exerts his utmost individual effort to attain the
most efficient cultivation of the land or when a decrease in
productivity is considered inevitable in cases where the land
concerned is subdivided.
B. With regard to corporations and other bodies, when a
2

=== Page 74 === (confidence 1.00)
Agricultural Land Adjustment Law
Article 1
himself cultivate or administer
the land by reason of illness or by
This Law has for its object the
any other cause as specified by
adjustment of relations as between
order, he may make an applica-
the agricultural land for the pur.
tion asking for a ministration or
pose of stabilizing the status of
purchase of the land to the Cities,
cultivators and maintaining and,
Towns or Villages, Agricultural
promoting the agricultural pro-
Associations, of Cities, Towns or
ductivepower.
Villages or such other associations
as may be specified by orders.
Article 2
The associations mentioned in
The agricultural land within the
the preceding paragraph may, in
purview of this Law is a land
which is employed for cultivation.
response to the application made
in compliance with the provisions
The farm-rent within the pur-
of the said paragraph, administer
view of this Law is a rent for the
or purchase the land in accordance
lease of an agricultural land, in
with the rules established by
case such land is leased for cul-
order.
tivation (including a rent for the
lease of any land other than agri-
Article 4
cultural or of any building or
The creation or transfer of the
other structure, in cases where
ownership, lease, superficies or
such land, building or structure is
leased as accessory to an agricul-
other right in the agricultural
land shall not be made unless the
tural land and where such rent
party obtains the permission of
is inseparably contracted for with
the rent for the lease of an agri.
the prefectural governor or the
cultural land), or a rent for an
approval of the Agricultural Land
Commission of a City, Town or
emphyteusis in case such is creat-
Village concerned in accordance
ed for purposes of cultivation.
with the provisions of order.
Article 3
The permission or approval
Where the owner or cultivator
mentioned in the preceding para-
of an agricultural land cannot
graph may be subject to a condi-

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.82)
A.L.A.L.
ERRATA
辰八明正法正衣
() 0..
震政局農地部

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.93)
Art. Gru. t.
Misprinted
Rectified
3
lond
lands
5
and
as well as
1c
ciataof
Associations of
4
3
3
that
the first
C-4
u
110
35
4
indificationis
9.5 2
11
and
und 15
4
previsions of
4.4
by an Imperial
by Imperial
310
6~7
emphytheusis the
emphytheusis,
mutionl money,
irigationt, and
10
2
3
tenancy, 1
tenancy.is
14
the Coint intends
Hie Cont in aicord
rice with the pwisions
of Article 12 or the
preieding Article,
intenals
14
12
Metropolis the
 Mrtropolis. the Territory
Territory
Special
15
2
9
law
laws
15-4
110 person
ay person
15.13
by an Imperral
by Imperial
15-14
3
5
coopted
cc-opted
15-16
person
persons

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.88)
Art.
Bra.
L.
Misprinted
Rectified
120
15-15
16-19
(cross cut)
"inister", and " the Arti-
cle 1542 -Para. 8." shall
reach "Irem 4 of Para. 3of
Article 15-14.
cross out Para ? and
2. Acquisition of lands
16
Para 3 begills as follows
by a person conducting
1o. dce e dmen,  ro
17
a city. Toun
a.E ty. Join
17-2
11
by.anm mpo
ly upsth
17.
i
ditts
di lto
17-1
Villag
17-2
Para e. slall
11
14.
Patagroph
11
11
17
21
The.
22
ad lit
4
theporisitcn
Mi
4
9
151015-12
4
2
11.
byan luparial

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.89)
(Low. No)
byan loporial
by laperial
22
The Item mumbered 9 is, as follaws.
Resistrationiof the aquisitioa of hypothes
for the loan made by a person to
assrcutions nientioned in Articles Band
of he rgricultural Adjustilient Law or to
P5 adminisirating projects mentioned
in !wiicle 6 and 19 tor ihe roguirement
i0. mange ment ot proge.ts as mentioned
in intics 3,4 and 13 of the said Law.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
tion or conditions as the case may
he shall obtain the permission of
be.
the prefectural governor in ac-
cordance with the provisions of
The acts done without the per-
order.
mission or the approval mentioned
in that paragraph shall be devoid
The permission mentioned in
of effect.
the preceding paragraph may be
subject to a condition, or condi-
Article 5
tions as the case may be..
The provisions of the preceding
Articles shall not apply in any of
Article 6-2
the folowing cases:
Except in the case mentioned in
1. Where any of the associa-
Article 6-4, no contract shall be
tions mentioned in Article 3
entered into in relation to the
acquires any of the rights men-
value of an agricultural land nor
tioned in the preceding Article
payment made nor the purchase
for the purpose of carrying on
price received thereunder, in
the project mentioned in' Article
which such value exceed the
3;
rental value of the Land as fixed
under the Land Tax Law multi-
2. Where one of the parties
plied by such rates as may be
to the acquisition of rights men-
specified by the Minister in
tioned in the preceding Article
charge; provided, however, that
is the State, the Metropolis, the
this shall not apply where either
Territory, a Special Prefecture,
the transferor or the transferee
a Prefecture, or an Agricultural
has obtained, in compliance with
Land Development Corporation;
the rules established by order,
3. Where an agricultural land
permission of a prefectural gov-
is requisitioned under the Land
ernor, or in such cases as may be
Expropriation Law or any other
specified by order.
law or ordinance;
When the Minister in charge has
4. Any other cases specified
determined the rates mentioned in
by order.
the preceding paragraph, he shall
notify them publicly.
Article 6
The provisions of para. 1 of
If the owner, lessee, emphyteuta
this Article shall not apply to any
of the agricultural land or person
contract of conveyance subsisting
who may cultivate the land on the
with respect to an agricultural
ground of other title intends to
land at the time of the public
use such agricultural land for
notification mentioned in the
purposes other than cultivation.
preceding paragraph, for which
-2—

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
registration has already been ef
Article 6-4
fected of the transferee's rights
In the conveyance of an agri-
in the agricultural land concerned,
or under which delivery of the
cultural land, of which the rental
land has been completed.
value has not been determined
under the Land Tax Law either
the transferor or the transferee
Article 6-3
shall obtain, in compliance with
If deemed specially necessary in
the rules established by order, the
cases where an application has
approval of the prefectural gov-
been made by the Agricultural
ernor with regard to the value of
Land Commission of a City, Town
such land.
or Village, a prefectural governor
may determine, after hearing the
In the case mentioned in the
opinion of the Agricultural Land
preceding paragraph, a contract
Commission of the Metropolis, the
shall be entered into in relation to
Territory, the Special Prefecture
the value of agricultural land nor
or the Prefecture, as the case may
payment made nor the purchase
be, such rates as are to be sub-
price received thereunder in which
stituted for those prescribed in
thevalue is in excess of the sum
para. 1 of the preceding Article or
approved in accordance with the
an amount to be substituted for
provisions of the said paragraph.
the amount prescribed in the said
paragraph on any basis other than
Article 7
that prescribed in that paragraph.
which shall prevail in the area
With respect to owner-farmer
with respect to which the above
lands established or maintained
mentioned application has been
in accordance with the project for
submitted.
establishing and maintaining as
prescribed by order, registration
When the prefectural governor
shall be effected to that effect.
has determined, in compliance
with the provisions of the preced-
The fact that a land is an
ing paragraph, any rate or amount,
owner- farmer land established and
he shall notify it publicly.
1
maintained in accordance with
the project for establishing and
In case a public notification has
maintaining owner-farmers pro-
been made in compliance with the
vided for in the preceding Article,
provisions of the preceding para
cannot be set up against a third
graph, the rate or amount publicly
person, unless registration to that
notified shall be deemed to be the
effect is effected in compliance
rate or amount prescribed in the
with the provisions of the preced
preceding Article.
ing paragraph.
-3

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
，
The necessary particulars for
reasonable, or where there exist.
the registration mentioned in
any other just cause.
Para. 1. of the present Article
If, in cases where the period of
shall be determined by an Im-
the lease of agricultural lands has
perial ordinance.
been determined by the parties,
one of the parties fails to notify
Article 8
the other party that he will not
The lease of agricultural lands,
effect renewal, or that no renewal
after the delivery of such lands
shall be made unless the condi-
shall be available against any
tions of the lease be altered with-
person who acquires any real
in six months to one year prior to
right therein, notwithstanding
the expiration of the period of
that the lease has not been re-
lease, a new lease shall be deem-
gistered.
ed to have been made with the
same conditions as the existing
The provisions of paras. 1 and
lease; provided, however, that this
3, Article 566 of the Civil Code
shall not apply in cases where it
shall apply with the necessary
is clear'that the lease has provi
modifications in cases where agri-
sionally been granted in view of
cultural lands, which were leased
some special circumstances such
but not so registered, form a sub-
as the inability of the lessor to
ject matter of the contract of sale.
operate the farm himself by reason
The provisions of Article 533 of
of his illness.
the Civil Code shall apply with the
Where a party to the lease of
necessary modifications in the
agricultural lands intends to
case mentioned in the preceding
terminate or rescind the lease or
paragraph.
to refuse its renewal, an approval
of the Agricultural Lands Com-
Article 9
mission of City, Town or Village
A lessor of agricultural lands
shall be obtained, in compliance
cannot terminate or rescind the
with the rules established by
lease or refuse its renewal, unless
order.
there is on the part of the lessee
The acts done without the ap-
any act against good faith such
proval mentioned in the preced-
as any failure to pay rent with-
ing paragraph shall be devoid of
out any extenuating circumstance;
effect.
provided, however, that this shall
not apply where the object for
Such conditions of farm tenancy
the use of land is changed, or
not in conformity with the provi-
where the operation of the land
sions of para. 2 of this Article or
by the lessor himself is deemed
of Articles 617 and 618 of the

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
1
Civil' Code, which are disadvan-
Article 9-3
tageous to the lessee, shall be
No contract shall be entered
deemed not to have been agreed
into in respect of farm-rent nor
upon.
payment made nor farm-rent
received thereunder, in which the
Article 9-2
amount of such farm-rent or the
No contract shall be entered
conditions of reduction and ex-
emption thereof are more disad-
into in respect of farm-rent nor
vantageous to the lessee or em-
payment made nor farm rent re-
phyteuta of an agricultural land
ceived thereunder, in which a
as compared with the amount of
farm- rent is made payable in kind
farm-rent or the conditions of
or its amount is determined on the
reduction and .exemption thereof
basis of objects other than money,
mentioned in any of the Items
provided, however, that this shall
mentioned below; provided, how-
not apply, if in cases where an
ever, that this shall not apply in
obligation on farm-rent is already
cases where the owner or lessee
due, the obliger effects perfor-
of the agricultural land obtains,
mance other than payment in
in compliance with the rules
money with the consent of the
established by order, the permis-
obligee.
sion of the prefectural governor
in special circumstances.
With respect to any contract
which is in contravention of the
1. With respect to an agri-
provisions of the preceding para-
cultural land for which the fixed
graph, it shall be deemed that the
rate of farm-rent prevails at the
contract has been entered into
time of the repeal of the Farm.
with a farm-rent as converted into
Rent Control Ordinance, the
money in compliance with the
said rate or the conditions of
rules established by order or sub-
reduction and exemption (with
ject to conditions of reduction and
respect to the amount or the
exemption (where the farm-rent
conditions of reduction and
as converted into money proves
exemption of any farm-rent
to be disadvantageous to the lessee
which is payable in kind or
or emphyteuta or the conditions
which has been determined on
of reduction and exemption men-
the basis of objects other than
tioned in the Items mentioned in
money, the rate of farm-rent as
Article 9-3, the amount of farm-
converted into money in com-
rent or the conditions of reduc-
pliance with the rules establish.
tion and exemption mentioned in
ed by order or the conditions of
each of the Items mentioned in
reduction or exemption there.
the said Article).
of);
-5-

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
2. With respect to agricul-
When a public notification has
tural lands other than these
been effected in compliance with
mentioned in the preceding
the provisions of the preceding
Item, the amount or the condi.
paragraph, the amount of farm-
tions of reduction and exemp.
rent or the conditions of reduction
tion of the farm-rent designated
and exemption which has been
for the first time after the re-
notified shall be deemed to be the
peal of the Farm-Rent Control
amount of farm-rent or the con-
Ordinance.
ditions of reduction and exemp-
2
tion mentioned in each of the
Article 9-4
Items of the preceding Article.
If deemed necessary, an Agri-
The provisions of the preceding
cultural Land Commission of a
four paragraphs shall apply with
City, Town or Village may, with
the necessary modifications in
the approval of the prefectural
cases where the amount of farm-
governor, determine the arnount
rent or the conditions of reduc-
of farm-rent or the conditions of
tion and exemption which has
reduction and exemption to be
been notified is to be altered.
substituted for the amount of
farm-rent or the conditions of
Article 9-5
reduction and exemption thereof
Where the amount of farm-rent
mentioned in each of the Items
under the preceding Article, with
or the condition of reduction and
respect
to
agricultural lands
exemption prescribed in the pre-
situated
i in the City, Town or
ceding two Articles is deemed to
be grossly unreasonable, the gov.
Village.
ernment authorities may determine
When a prefectural governor
the amount of farm-rent or the
intends to grant an approval as
conditions of reduction and ex-
mentioned in the preceding para-
emption to be substituted for those
graph, he shall hear the opinion
prescribed in each of the Items of
of the Agricultural Land Commis-
Article9-3.
sion of the Metropolis, the Ter-
When a prefectural governor
ritory, the Special Prefecture or
intends to determine the amount
the Prefecture.
of farm-rent or the conditiens of
When a prefectural governor has
reduction and exemption in com
granted an approval as mention-
pliance with the provisions of the
ed in para. 1 of the present Article,
preceding paragraph, he shall
he shall notify it publicly in com-
hear the opinion of the Agricul-
pliance with the rules established
tural Land Commission of the
by order.
Metropolis, the Territory,
the
6

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
Special Prefecture or the Prefec-
the paddy-field or to the price of
ture.
main product which is normally
The provisions of paras. 3 to 5
produced in respect to the field,
the lessee or emphyteuta of the
inclusive of the preceding Article
shall apply with the necessary
agricultural land may demand to
the lessor or owner of the said
modification in the case mention
ed in para. 1 of the present
agricultural land, the reduction of
farm-rent down to the amount
Article.
corresponding to such fixed ratio.
Article 9-6
The fixed ratio mentioned in
The provisions of the preceding
the preceding paragraph shall be
two Articles shall not apply in
determined by the Agricultural
respect of the amount of farm-
Land Commission of the Metro.
rent or the conditions or reduction
polis, Hokkaido, Special Prefecture
and exemption specified by a deci-
or Prefecture according to the
sion of the Court, a compromise
criterion determined by the Cen-
in Court, or a conciliation under
tral Agricultural Land Commis-
the Farm Tenancy Conciliation
sion; provided however that it
Law.
shall not exceed 25 percent in re-
0
spect to the paddy-field and of 15
Article 9-7
percent in respect to the field.
The provisions of Articles 9 2 to
In addition to those provided in
9 6 inclusive shall apply with the
the preceding paragraph, any
necessary modifications
to the
such matters as may be necessary
conditions of deposit
money,
for the execution of the provisions
money or grain furnished by way
para. 1 shall be provided by order.
of compensation, costs of repairs,
irrigation or drainage, and of any
The rules and regulations con-
contract of lease or emphyteusis
cerning the Central Agricultural
of agricultural lands or of any
Land Commission shall be provid-
contract accessory thereto other
ed by an Imperial Ordinance.
than the amount of farm-rents or
the conditions of reduction and
Article 9-9
exemption.
An act evasive of the restric-
tions imposed by the provisions of
Article 9-8
Article 6-2 para. 1, Article 6-4
In cases where the amount of
para. 2, Article 9-2 para. 1, or
farm-rent exceeds the amount
Article 9-3 (inclusive of cases
corresponding to the fixed ratio
where the provisions apply muta-
to the price of rice which is
tis mutandis by virtue of Article
normally produced in respect to
9-7) shall not be permissible,
-7一

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
irrespective of the name under
preliminary measures for the con-
which the act is perpetrated.
ciliation proceeding, after hearing
the opinion of the Farm Tenancy
Article 9-10
officer.
In respect to the contract of
The decision in pursuance of
lease or emphytheusis, which has
the preceding paragraph shall be
for its object the cultivation, the
made by the Court in which the
amount of farm-rent, terms of its
conciliation case is pending in
payment, terms of reduction,
compliance with the provisions of
duration of lease or emphytheusis
the
Non-Contentious
Matters
the outlay of repair expense,
Procedure Law.
drainage expense and beneficial
A person who acts in violation
expenses, and other content of
of the decision made in pursuance
the contract shall be clearly stated
of Para. 1 of the present Article
in writing.
may be made liable by the Court
in. which the conciliation case is
Article 10
pending, to an administrative fine
1f deemed necessary for public
not exceeding five hundred yen.
welfare, a Farm Tenancy Officer
The provisions of Articles 207
may apply for a conciliation pro.
and 208 of the Non-Contentious
ceeding under the Farm Tenancy
Conciliation Law for the settle
Matters Procedure Law shall apply
ment of any dispute relating to
with the necessary modifications
to the administrative fine pre.
farm tenancy.
scribed in the preceding para-
The Court, in which an action
graph.
regarding any dispute regarding
farm tenancy, is pending may, of
Article 12
its own motion, refer the matter
In case where the conciliation
to the conciliation proceeding
under the Farm Tenancy Con-
under the Farm Tenancy concilia-
ciliation Law has not been suc-
tion Law,
after hearing the
cessful, the Court may, if deemed
opinion of
the Farm Tenancy
proper, of its own motion after
officer.
hearing the opinion of the Farm
Tenancy Officer and the concilia-
Article 11
tion commissioners, make a deci.
If deemed necessary for the con-
sion in lieu of conciliation as may
ciliation proceeding under the
be necessary for the settlement
Farm Tenancy Conciliation Law,
of the dispute, relative to the con-
the Court may, of its own motion,
tinuance of the farm tenancy, al-
make a necessary order by way of
teration of the conditions of the
—8—

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
tenancy, and any other matter,
shall apply with the necessary
equitably balancing the interests
modifications.
of both of the parties and taking
all circumstances into account. In
Article 14
such a decision, the Court may
Where the Court intends to
also order the payment of farm
make any decision necessary for
rent, delivery of the farm, or any
the settlement of any dispute re-
other performance of a proprie
garding the continuance of the
tary character.
farm tenancy or alteration of the
The provisions of Para. 2 of the
conditions of tenancy, the Court
preceding Article shall apply with
may, if deemed necessary, hear
the necessary modifications to the
the opinion of the Agricultural
Lands Commission of the City,
decision mentioned in the preced-
ing paragraph.
Town, or Village, or of the Agri-
cultural Lands Commission of the
A motion may be made against
Metropolis the Territory Special
the decision mentioned in Para. 1
Prefecture or Prefecture.
of the present Article; the period
within which such motion is per-
Article 15
missible is two weeks.
There shall be an Agricultural
The motion mentioned in the
Land Commission in Cities, Towns
preceding paragraph shall have
and Villages.
the effect of staying execution.
The Agricultural Land Commis-
The decision provided for in
sion of a City, Town or Village
shall be under the supervision of
Para. 1 of the present Article shall,
the prefectural governor, and
when it becomes final and conclu.
sive, have the same effect as a
manages the following matters:
compromise in Courts.
1. Matters falling within the
scope of its powers by virtue of
Article 13
the provisions of this Law and
Where disputes other than those
other law;
relative to tenancy, arise with
2. Any other matters relat-
respect to the use of agricultural
ing to the adjustment of agri-
lands such as regarding relation;
cultural lands as specified by an
between adjacent owners, parties
Imperial ordinance.
thereto may apply to the Court for
conciliation; in such cases the
Article 15-2
provisions of the Farm Tenancy
Conciliation Law and of Articles
The Agricultural Land Commis-
10 to 12 inclusive of this Law
sion of a City, Town or Village
9

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
shall consist of a chairman and
mentioned in the preceding two
commissioners.
items.
The chairman shall be elected
In applying the provisions of the
by Co-operation by commission-
preceding paragraph, an agricul-
ers; provided, however, that in
tural land owned by a head of the
cases where the chairman cannot
family or family members or a
be elected by Co-operation by
person engaging in cultivation
commissioners, the prefectural
who lives in the same house or the
governor shall appoint the chair-
head of the family or the family
man from among the commis-
members of a person engaging in
isoners who have been elected in
cultivation who does not live in
accordance with the provisions of
the same house by reasons as
Para. 8.
specified by order shall be deemed
to be an agricultural land owned
The
commissioners shall be
by the said person engaging in
clected by persons falling under
cultivation.
any of the categories mentioned
below and having a right to vote
In applying the provisions of
from among persons who fall
para. 3 the head of the family or
under any of the categories men
the family member of a person
tioned below and who are eligible
falling under any of the items of
to election.
the said paragraph who lives in
the same house shall be deemed
1. A person engaging in cul.
to be a person falling under the
tivation in cases where he does
said item of the same paragraph.
not own any agricultural land
or in cases where the area of
The fixed number of commis-
agricultural land cultivated by
sioners to be elected in accord-
him is more than twice as much
ance with the provisions of para-
as the area of agricultural lnd
graph 3, shall be five in respect to
owned by him.
those which fall under the cate-
gory of item 1 of the said Para-
2. An owner of an agricul-
graph 3 in respect to those which
tural land, who does not engage
fall under the category of item 2
in cultivation of his land or
of the said paragraph and 2 in
whose land exceeds in area
respect to those which fall under
twice as much as his agricul-
the category of item 3 of the said
tural lands cultivated by him.
paragraph respectively.
3. A person who engages in
If it is deemed necessary, the
cultivation and owns agricul-
prefectural governor may in res-
tural land, but who does not fall
pect to the Agricultural Land
under any of the categories
Commission of a City, Town or Vil-
—10—

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
lage, specially designated as such,
Article 15-3
increase the fixed number of com
A person who has his permanent
missioners to be elected in accord-
residence within the administra-
ance with the provision of the
tive extent of a city, town or vil-
preceding paragraph, provided,
lage and who engages in cultiva-
however, that in this case the in-
tion of an agricultural land of
creased number of those which
such area as may be specified by
fall under the category mention-
order, or who owns within the ad.
ed in item 1 of the said paragraph
ministrative extent of a city, town
shall be equal to the total of the
or village concerned an agricul-
increased number of those who
tural land of such area as may be
fall under the category mentioned
specified by order, or the head of
in item 2 of the said paragraph
the family or the family member
and the increased number of
of such person who lives in the
those who fall under the category
same house shall have a right to
mentioned in item 3 of the said
vote and shall be eligible for the
paragraph, and the total number
commissioner of the Agricultural
increased shall not exceed ten.
Land Commission of a City, Town
or Village.
The prefectural governor may
appoint the commissioners to the
The provision of para. 4 of the
extent of three, if it is deemed
preceding Article shall apply
mutatis mutandis to cases men-
necessary, in addition to the com.
tioned in the preceding para-
missioners which are elected in ac-
graph.
cordance with the provisions of
para. 3.
Article 15-4
No person falling under any of
In order to appoint the commis-
sioners mentioned in the preceding
the categories mentioned below
paragraph the consent of all
shall not possess the right to vote
and shall not be eligible:
commissioners who have been
elected in accordance with the
1. Minors;
provisions of para. 3 shall be re-
2. Persons adjudged incom-
quired; provided, however, that
petent;
this shall not apply to the case
where the commissioner to be the
3. Any person who has been
chairman in accordance with the
sentenced to imprisonment with
provisions of the proviso to para.
or without hard labour for a
2 is to be appointed.
term of six years, or more.
A commissioner shall be an
4. Any person who has been
honorary post.
sentenced to imprisonment with
-11-

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
or without hard labour for a
be given to a senior; in case per-
term not exceeding six years,
sons elected are of the same age,
and not yet undergone the exe.
the decision shall be made by lot.
cution of such imprisonment
nor has ceased to undergo the
Article 15-8
same.
The commissioner may not re
The following persons sha'll not
sign from office without just
be eligible:
cause.
1. A person adjudged quasi-
Article 15-9
incompetent;
The term of office of a commis-
2. A bankrupt who is not yet
sioner shall be two years.
rehabilitated.
A person who falls under 1 of
Article 15-5
the categories of Paragraph 3 of
Article 15-2, may with the consent
Affairs relating to the election
of majority of more than one harf
shall be administered by the
of those persons who have the
mayor or headman of a Town or
right to vote and who fall under
Village.
the same category, demand to the
Article 15-6
headman of a city, town, or vil.
lage the re-election of all com-
Election shall be conducted by
missioners who have been elected
votes.
in accordance with the provisions
Each person shall possess one
of the said paragraph from among
vote only.
those persons who fall under the
same category.
Voters shall come in person to
the voting place, write himself the
Under the special circumstance,
name of one candidate on the vot-
the prefectural governor may re.
ing paper: provided, however,
move a commissioner who has been
that for juristic persons by their
selected in accordance with the
representatives.
provisions of Art. 15-2, Para. 8.
Voters may not sign their names
The provisions of the former
on the voting·paper.
part of Art. 15-2, Para. 9 shall
apply mutatis mutandis to cases
Article 15-7
mentioned in the preceding para
graph.
Any person who obtained a
majority of the votes shall be the
A commissioner who has been
person elected. In case votes are
appointed to fill a vacancy shall
equally divided, preference shall
hold office during the remainder
-12-

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
of the term of office of his pre
connected or a person who shares
decessor.
with him the one and same House
on the register.
Commissioners shall remain in
office until the appointment of
Article 15-13
their successors even after the
expiration of the term of office of
There shall be an Agricultural
their own.
Land Commission in the Metro-
polis, the Territory, a Special Pre-
Article 15-10
fecture, or a Prefecture.
If a commissioner who has been
Agricultural Land Commissions
elected in accordance with the
of the Metropolis, the Territory, a
provisions of para. 3 of Article 15
Special Prefecture or a Prefecture
ceases to be eligible to election, he
shall be under the supervision of
shallforfeit his office.
the Minister in charge or of the
prefectural governor, and manage
Article 15-11
the following matters:
1. Matters falling within the
The presence of commissioners
scope of their powers by virtue
exceeding one half of their pre-
of the provisions of this Law or
scribed number shall constitute
the quorum of an Agricultural
other Laws.
Land Commission of a City, Town
2. Any other matters relating
or Village.
to the adjustment of agricul-
All resolutions shall be adopted
tural lands as specified by an
Imperial ordinance.
by a majority of the votes of the
commissioners present; in case of
Article 15-14
a tie, the chairman shall exercise
the. casting vote.
Agricultural Land Commissions
of the Metropolis, the Territory,
The meeting of the Agricul
Special Prefecture or Prefecture
tural Land Commission of a City,
consists of a chairman and com-
Town or Village shall be open to
missioners.
public.
The prefectural governor shall
The chairman shall compile the
be appointed chairman.
minutes and submit it to public
inspection.
Commissioners shall be appoint-
ed from among the following per.
Article 15-12
sons:
A commissioner may not parti-
1. Ten persons who have
cipate in the proceedings of an
been coopted by the com-
affair with which he himself i:
missioners elected in accordance
-13-

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
1
with the provisions of Art. 15-2
Minister" and the Article 15-2.
Para. 3 in respect to persons
Para. 8. Article 15-9 shall read Item
falling under the category men
4 of Para. 3 of the preceding
tioned in Item 1 of the said
Article.
Paragraph;
Article 15-16
2. Six persons who have been
co-opted by the commission-
If deemed necessary for the
ers elected in accordance with
management of the matters men-
the provisions of Art. 15-2 Para.
tioned in Articles 15 and 15-13, an
3 in respect of persons falling
Agricultural Land Commission of
under the category mentioned
a City, Town or Village or of the
in Item 2 of the said Paragraph.
Metropolis, the Territory, a Special
Prefecture or a Prefecture may
3. Four persons who have
summón owners or cultivators of
been co-opted by the com-
agricultural lands or any other
missioners elected in accordance
person concerned, or cause then
with the provisions of Art. 152
to submit necessary reports, or
Para. 3 in respect to persons
cause commissioner or person en-
falling under the category men-
gaging in the affairs of the Com-
tioned in Item 3 of the said
mission to make necessary in-
Paragraph.
vestigations at the agricultural
4. Five to ten persons ap
land or any other place.
pointed by the competent Min-
ister from among the learned
Article 15-17
and experienced persons.
The expenses of an Agricultural
Article 15-15
Land Commission of a City, Town
or Village shall be borne by the
The provisions of Art. 15-2, Para.
City, Town or Village concerned;
10. Arts. 15 6 to 15-8 inclusive
the expenses of an Agricultural
Art. 15-9, Paras. 1 to 3 inclusive,
Land Commission of the Metro-
Paras. 5 and 6, Arts. 15-10 to
polis, the Territory, a Special Pre-
15-12 inclusive shall apply muta-
fecture or a Prefecture by the
tis mutandis to the Agricultural
Metropolis, the Territory, the Spe-
Land Commission of the Metro
cial Prefecture or the Prefecture
polis, Hokkaido, a Special Prefec-
concerned.
ture or Prefecture; provided, how-
ever, that "the headman of a city.
Article 15-18
town or village in Article 15-9,
Para. 2 shall read "the prefectural
Necessary matters, other than
governor"; "the prefectural gov.
those mentioned in Articles 15 to
ernor" in Para. 3 of the same
15-17 inclusive, relating to Agri-
Article shall read "the competent
cultural Land Commission
-14-

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
Cities, Towns or Villages, or of the
land or any other place and
Metropolis, the Territory, Special
examine its conditions, ledgers,
Prefectures or Prefectures shall be
document, or other property.
determined by an Imperial Ordi
nance.
Article 17-2
In respect to the Agricultura:
Article 16
Land Commission of a city, Town
Local taxes shall not be levied
or Village to be established in a
on the following acquisitions of
city, town or village in which the
immovables:
number of persons eligible with
regard to any of the Items men.
1. Acquisition of the land in
tioned in Para. 3 of Article 15-2
accordance with the. provisions
is less than the prescribed number
of Article 3 or establishment and
mentioned in Para. 6 of the saic
maintenance of the owner.
Article, an exception may be pro-
farmer mentioned in Article 7;
vided for by an Imperial Ordi-
2. Acquisition of lands by an
nance.
individual person made under
In a city, town or village under
the projects for establishing
special circumstances, an Agricu!-
and maintaining owner farmers
tural Land Commission of a City.
mentioned in Article 7;
Town or Village may not be
3. Acquisition of lands by
established in accordance with the
associations conducting the pro
provisions of an Imperial Ordi.
jects for establishing and main-
nance. In this case the agricul-
taining owner-farmers
men
tural land commission in the ad
tioned in Article 7, in cases
jacent city, town or village as de-
where the owner of the lands
signated by the prefectural gov.
established and maintained
ernor shall make disposition of
under 'the said projects ceases
the matters which fall under the
to be under conditions justify.
present law within the limit of
ing the said establishment and
the jurisdictive power of agricul-
maintenance.
tural land commission of the said
city, town or village.
Article 17
If it is deemed specially neces-
If deemed necessary, the gov-
sary, the prefectural governor may,
ernment authorities may demand
in accordance with the provisions
necessary reports relative to an
of order, divide the limits of a city,
agricultural land or other land or
town or village into two or mor
property, and cause an officer in
divisions and form the Divisiona!
charge to inspect at any time from
Agricultural Land Commission in
sunrise to sunset the agricultural
respect to each division in place
—15—

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
of the Agricultural Land Commis-
9-2, para. 1, Article 9-3 (compris-
sion of the said city. town. o"
ing cases where the provisions
village.
apply mutatis mutandis by virtue
of Article 9-7), or Article 9-9 shall
The provisions concerning the
be liable to imprisonment with
Agricutural Land Commissions of
hard labour for a term not ex-
a City, Town or Village. except the
ceeding two years or a fine not
provisions of Para 8 shall apply
exceeding ten thousand yen.
mutatis mutandis to the Divi-
sional Agricultural Land Commis-
Article 17-5
sions mentioned in the preced-
ing Paragraph.
Any person who falls within any
of the categories mentioned in
Article 17-3
the following Items shall be liable
to imprisonment with hard labour
The provisions of this Law re.
for a term not exceeding six
lating to Towns and Villages or a
months or a fine not exceeding
town headman and village head-
five hundred yen:
man shall apply, in cases where
there is a town and village union
1. Any person who contra-
which jointly manages all the af-
venes the provisions of Article 6.
fairs of the town and village or the
2. Any person who contra-
affairs of towns and villages offices,
venes the provisions of Article
to the town and village union or the
9, para. 3.
managing officials of the said town
and village union and in localities
3. Any person who neglects
where the Towns and Villages Law
to submit the report mentioned
is not in force, to corresponding
in Article 17, makes any false
districts or officers. The provi.
statement therein, or refuses,
sions of this Law relating to Cities
obstructs or evades an inspec-
or mayors shall apply, in the
tion or examination by an offi-
Metropolis in areas where wards
cer in charge.
exist, in the City of Kyoto, the
City of Osaka, the City of Yoko-
Article 17-6
hama, the City of Nagoya, and the
Where a representative of a
City of Kobe, to wards or their
juristic person, or an agent, an
heads as specified by the prefec-
officer or any other employee of
tural governor.
a juristic person or of a natural
person acts in contravention of
Article 17-4
the provision of Article 17-4, or
Any person who contravenes the
the Item numbered 1 and 2 or the
provisions of Article 4, Article 6-2
former half of the item numbered
para. 1, Article 6-4 para. 2, Article
3 in the preceding Article with
-16—

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
respect to the business of the said
Law: provided that with respect
juristic person or of the said
to leases of agricultural lands ex-
person, the juristic person or the
isting at the time of the coming
natural person shall, apart from the
into operation of this Law, of
punishment of the person who
which the period of lease is to
acted on behalf of such person, be
expire within one year from the
liable to a fine as provided for in
time of.the coming into operation
each of the relevant Articles.
of this Law, naties that renewal
shall not be made or that the lease
shall not be renewed unless the
Additional Provisions
conditions of lease are altered
made by one party to the other
(Law No. 67, 1938)
within one year prior to the ex-
piration of the period of the
Article 18
lease, shall be deemed to have
The date on which this Law
been given within the period pre-
shall come into' operation shall be
scribed in para. 2, Article 9, even
determined by an Imperial ordin-
though it may not have been given
within the last-mentioned period.
ance.
Article 19
Article 21
With respect to owner-farmer
The provisions of Article 10
lands which were established are
Para. 2 and Articles 11 to 14 in-
maintained prior to the coming
clusive shall also apply to actions
intc operation of this Law, under
or conciliation cases,, pending at
the project for establishing and
the time of the coming into opera
maintaining owner-farmers pre-
tion of this Law, relative to rela-
scribed by order, registration to
tions as between farm tenants or
that effect may be effected.
other relations concerning the use
The provisions of Aricle 6, Article
of agricultural lands.
7 Paras. 2 and 3, and Article 16 the
Items numbered 2 and 3 shall
Article 22
apply with the nesessary modifica-
In the proviso to Article 19 of
tions to owner-farmer lands as
2
the Recordation Tax Law for the
mentioned in the proceding para-
words "the Item numbered 8, the
graph.
Item numbered 9" there shall be
Article 20
substituted the words "the Item
numbered 8 to the Item numbered
The provisions of Articles 8 and
9-4 inclusive."
9 shall also apply leases of agricul-
tural lands existing at the time of
In the Item numbered 8 of the
the coming into operation of this
said Article of the said Law the
-17-

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
.1
words "the establishment and
mentioned in Articles 3 and 4
maintenance of owner-farmers" or
of the said Law;
and "Hokkaido, Special Prefec"
9-3. Registration of the ac-
ture, Prefecture, City, Town, Vil-
quisition of hypothecs, by per-
lage, Industrial Associations, the
sons administering the projects
National Federation of Industrial
mentioned in Articles 4, 6, and
Association" shall be omitted, and
19 of the Agricultural Lands
the following Item added next
Adjustment Law created in con.
following the said Item:
nection with the establishment
8-2. Registration of the ac-
and maintenance of owner-
quisition of ownership of lands
farmers;
by individual persons under the
9.4. Registration prescribed
projects for establishing and
in Articles 7 and 19 of the Agri-
maintaining owner-farmers pro-
cultural
Lands
Adjustment
vided for in Articles 4, 6 and 19
Law.
of the Agricultural Lands Ad-
justment Law.
The Item numbered 12 of the
said Article of the said Law shall
The Item numbered 9 of the
be altered as follows:
said Law shall be altered as fol.
lows:
12. Registration of the ac-
3
quisition by persons administer-
9. Where a person makes a
ing the project for establishing
loan of money required for the
and maintaining owner-farmers
management of projects as men-
provided for in Articles 4, 6 and
tioned in Articles 3, 4, 6 and 19
19 of the Agricultural Lands Ad.
of the Agricultural Lands Ad
justment Law of ownership of
justment Law to the associations
lands, in cases where owners of
mentioned in Articles 3 and 4 of
lands established or maintained
the said Law or to persons ad-
under the said project cease to
ministering the projects men-
be under conditions justifying
tioned in Articles 6 and 19 of
the said establishment
and
the said Law, relation of the
maintenance.
acquisition by the said person
or person of hypothecs created
in connection with the loan;
Additional Provisions
9.2. Registration of the ac-
(Law No. 64, 1945)
quisition by associations men-
tioned in Articles 3 and 4 of the
Agricultural Land Adjustment
Article 1
Law of rights in lands for the
The date of the coming into
management of the projects
operation of this Law shall be
—18—

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
determined by an Imperial Ordi-
of the powers of the Agricultural
nance with respect to eaeh of the
Land Commissions of Cities, Towns
provisions.
or Villages or of the Metropolis,
the Territory, Special Prefectures
Article 2
or Prefectures.
The provisions of Article 6-4
Necessary matters, other than
as amended shall not apply to
those mentioned in the preceding
any contract of conveyance sub-
paragraph, relating to Agricul.
sisting with respect to an agricul-
tural Land Commissions of Cities,
tural land at the time when the
Towns or Villages or of the Metro-
provisions of the said Article come
polis, the Territory, Special Pre-
into operation, for which regist.
fectures or Prefectures at the
ration has already been effected
time when the provision of Arti-
of the transferee's rights in the
cles 15 to 15 18 inclusive come
Agricultural land concerned, or
into operation shall be determined
under which delivery of the land
by an Imperial Ordinance.
has been completed.
Article 5
Article 3
The Farm·Rent Control Ordi-
The amended provisions of Arti-
nance, the Provisional Agrcul-
cle 9-2 shall not apply to the pay-
tural Land Rule Control Ordi-
ment or receipt of farm-rent
nance, and the Provisional Agri-
which is effected in the shape of
cultural Lands, etc., Control Ordi-
the rice produced prior to 1945.
nance shall be repealed.
Permissions or approvals grant-
Article 4
.ed, or applications therefore sub
Agricultural Land Commissions
mitted, prior to the coming into
of Cities, Towns or Villages, or of
operation of the provisions of the
the Metropolis, the Territory, Spe
preceding paragraph, under the
cial Prefectures or Prefectures
Provisional Agricultural Land
which are governed by the provi-
Value Control Ordinance, or the
sions heretofore in force shall
Provisional Agricultural Land,
continue to exist until the forma
etc., Control Ordinance shall be
tion of Agricultural Land Com-
deemed to have been granted or
missions of Cities, Towns or Vil-
submitted in accordance with the
lages or of the Metropolis, the
corresponding provisions of this
Territory, Special Prefectures, or
Law.
Prefectures which are governed
by this Law; and they shall take
For the purpose of applying
charge of matters which now fall
penal provisions to acts perpetrat
under this Law within the scope
ed prior to the coming into opera-
—19—
4.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
tion of the provisions of para. 1
of the said agricultural land has
of this Article, the Farm-Rent
not been effected yet.
Control Ordinance, the Provision.
From the date of the enforce-
al Agricultural Land Value Con-
ment of this Law to the time fixed
trol Ordinance, and the Provi-
by an Imperial Ordinance, "the
sional Agricultural Lands, etc..
approval of the Agricultural Land
Control Ordinance shall remain in
Commission of a City, Town or
force as heretofore.
Village" in Art. 9, Para. 3 shall
read "the permission of the pre-
fectural governor" and "the ap.
proval" in the amended provisions
Additional Provisions
of Paragraph 4 of the same Arti-
cle shall read "the permission."
(Law No.
A part of the Registration Tax
The date of the enforcement of
Law shall be amended as follows:
the present Law shall be fixed by
In Item 8-2 of Article 19
Imperial Ordinance.
"Articles 4 and 6" shall read
The amended provisions of
"Article 7"; in Item 9 of the
Article 4 shall apply also to the
said Article, "Article 6" shall
contract in respect to an agricul-
read "Article 7," and the word
tural land which has been made
"or Article 4" and "Article 4"
in accordance with the provisions
shall be deleted; in Item 9-2 of
of the Article 6, Item 3 of the pre-
the said Article, "the association
vious Law without obtaining the
mentioned in Articles 4...
approval as prescribed in the Arti-
Article 3 or 4" shall read
cle 5 of the previous Law, in case
"Articles 7"; in the Item
either the registration of the
9.3 and Item 12 of the said
creation or transfer of the right in
Article, "Articles 4 and 6" shall
the said contract or the delivery
read "Article 7."
—20—

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.82)
71:894.52
2-1047
(bueky Jl

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.93)
.2
1,
する方針である。
きを基準とすれば、政府は買收できないが二十年十一月二十三日現在を
第四十五條は報告を徴する権開が規定されてみる。
基準とすればそれは小作地となつて買收できることにもなる。又現行農
第四十六條は政府が寶渡し又は使用する土地その他の管理に關する規
地調整法を脱法せんとして虚偽の申請により地方長官の認可を受けて小
定である。農地については先に逃べた通り買收の期日と賢渡の期日とを
作地を小作人以外に譲渡した場合もこの親定を適用して以前の地主の所
できるだけ一致させて管理の手数を省くつもりであるが、時としては兩
有する小作地とすることができる。尤も地方長官が正當に認可して農地
者の間に距離があり又小作農が買受けぬ場合もあらう。それで管理規則
の護渡があつだもの、選地調整法第九條第一項の土地取上の條件にもあ
をつくつて小作農の選擇なり小作料の取立なりを市町村長、市町村濃地
てはまり小作人も承知し市町村農地委員會も承認した土地返還には事
委員會、市町村農菜會等に委任する考である。
質上この規定を及す必要はあるまい。市町村農地委員會がこの規定を適
第四十七條は市町村農地委員會の活動が不活設で買收や変渡が豫期の
用した場合は事態を明かにして都道府縣農地委員會の審査を受ける必要
様に進まない場合は都道村縣護地委員會に命してその事務を處理させ都
があるので買收計鑑にその理由を明記せしめる様にするつもりである
道府縣農地委員會の活動も不充分な場合は地方長官又は中央農地委員會
に處理させ、事薬の進歩を岡るための規定である。
第四十八條は農地調整法によつて一市町村に二以上の地區農地委員會
ができた場合の規定である。在村地主か不在地主かは地區農地委員會の
區域で決定される。第四十九條は町村組合六大都市等に於ける特例第
五十條及び第五十一條は罰則である。
次に附則であるが頂要な規定が入つてある。農地の買收は買收計畫を
たてる際の事實に基いて小作地であるか、自作地であるか、在村地主であ
るか不在地主であるかをきめるのが原則であるが、第一次農地改革に前
後して小作地の不當取上や農地の不當資買等が行はれて農村に波殺を起
して居り、これらを獣過することは農地改革の趣旨にも添はないので
市町村農地委員會が相當と認めたときは昭和二十年十一月二十三日現在
の事質に基いて農地買收計盤を定めることができることこした。同日以
後地主が小作地を不當に取上げて自作してみる場合買牧計確をたてると
九1

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.94)
九〇
場合などは當然除外される豫定である。
て櫛利を有してみた者の生活を保護するために更に他の土地を買收し又
第二十九條は第十五條の規定によつて政府が買收した盤業用施設土地
は使用し得る規定第三十八條は前述の市町村農地委員會が未墾地買收
又は建物の費渡に闘する規定で農地の場合と同様に考へてよい。
計盤をたてる場合の規定である。この主務大臣の定める面積と云ふの
六
は、一剛地の面積が北海道にあつては四十町歩都府縣にあつては平均十
第三十條乃至第四十一條は主として未墾地の買收及び喪渡に關する規
町步になるやうに都府縣別に定める豫定である。
定である。政府は未墾地を開發しこれを利用するために土地ばかりでな
第三十九條は損失補償に關する規定である。第四十一條は開發を促進
く立木、漁葉機、水の使用に闘する權利及び建物その他の工作物を買收
するために河川法等にある禁止規定の排除に關する規定である。第四十
し又は使用することができる旨が第三十一條に規定されてみる。買收又
一條は資渡に闘する規定である。第三十八條の小面積のものは開發しな
は使用の手護は農地の買收の場合とはほと同様である。未墾地買收計盤
いで農地と同様直接農民に変渡しその他のものは開設してから賢渡すこ
は原則として都道府縣農地委員會がたてる。この場合その土地が開拓適
とならう。資渡の相手方は命令事項に記載してみる。
地であるかどうかは都道府縣開拓委員會に諸問し更に買收について地元
七
の市町村農地委員會の意向を充分聴く方針である。たと買收の對衆が小
第四十二條以下は選地と未墾地との共通規定である
面積の場合は市町村島地委員會に行はせることが適営なのでその規定を
第四十二條は農地買收計鑑及未墾地買收計畫をたて公告をした後は
第三十八條に置いた。次に未製地等については公定價格がないので第三
植利者に現狀の維持を命する規定である。これに違反すると第五十條で
十一條第三項では農地以外の土地は近傍類似の農地の時價、これは公定
罰せられる。
價格の範園内できまるが、これに中央農地委員會が都道府縣別に定めた
第四十三條は國が買收又は使用する場合の對價、農地の報償金、各種
率を乗じた額の範園内できめることにする豫定である。土地以外は時價
の補償金の支拂は濃地證券でするための規定である。農地については大
を參酌してきめる。第三十二條は未墾地買收計鑑をたてるための測量
證一世帶四千圓位まで農地證券によらずに一時に支拂六豫定である。農
檢査及び障書物の移轉又は除却の權利に關する規定、第三十三條は政府
地證券は年利三分六厘五毛据置期間なしの二十四年間元利均等償還で
が買收又は使用する土地の上にある物件等を收去させる規定、第三十四
發行價格はべーでやりたい。證券の發行は買收と合はせて年四回程度と
したい。
條は農地の買收の規定の準用、第三十五條は政府が使用權を取得する時
期とそのものの上にある權利で政府の使用を妨げる権利の停止に闘する
第四十四條は登記の簡易化の規定である。選地について云へば買收飛
規定である。第三十六係は政府によつて使用を受ける者の買收請求禮に
定の約二百萬町步はほ四千萬筆に相當し、現行の不動産登記法に從へ
關する規定、第三十七條は政府が土地を買牧する場合にその土地につい
ば十年か入つても臨理できないので司法省と協議してできるだけ簡易化

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.93)
換である。第二十三條及び第二十四條は農地の所有機の交換である。市
つてみるが、あまり長期であつては買受人の負償を氷く殘すこと・なつ
町村島地委員會は政府の買牧した農地と地目、面積等位等の似てある
て反つてその利益に反するので實際は從來の自作選創設事薬と同様二十
小作地の所有者に交換を指示する。交換の條件はその地主と市町村盤地
四年賦で行ふ飛定である。それにしても年々元利支拂金は元金の約六分
委員會が協議し、若し協議不調ならば都道府縣農地委員會が裁定する
に過きない。尤も農家が相當務積された預貯金を持つてみる場合それで
裁定によって所有権父換の契約が成立し協議又は裁定において定められ
支拂ふことは將來のためによいし、それを引當にして者干は地主に對し
た日に所有禮か移轉するのである。政府の買收した農地には第十二條第
ても一時拂をしたいので買受人が對價の一部ほい三割位までは一時に支
一項の規定によつて撫保權は消滅してみるが地主の小作地には抵営榴等
拂ふやう指導したい老へである。
があることがあらう。この抵営権等は政府が交換によつて取得した農地
第三十七條はこの法律によつて創設された自作農が沒落しないための
の上に依然として存在しては困るので、第二十四條第二項に特則を設け
措置として、將來豊産物の價額が下落した埋合は年院金の支拂を減免し
て、地主が交換によつて取得した農地の上に乗り移ることとした。この
たり猶豫する規定である。年利三分二厘二十四年賦とした場合の償遺金
所有機の交換によつて、小作盤は耕作する農地を移動せずして政府の買
を標準とし、これを公租公課の合計額が、買受けた農地の通常收覆物の
收した農地を小作することへなり従つて今までは買受けられなかつた選
似額の一定の制合を超えた場合にこの規定が發助する。農産物の下落ば
地の買受が可能となる課である。第二の方法は國の買收した農地の上に
かりでなく自然災害による農地の埋沒流失にも適用される。この一定の
ある貴借権父は氷小作権と政府の買收しない類似の農地の上にあるこれ
割合は三分の一以下で中央農地委員會が定めることになつてみる。中庸
らの権利の交換である。第一の場合は農地と所有檻者の開係が数り農地
田一反歩の價額は七五○圓として年々の貸選金は四五圓程度でありこ
と小作人との關係は鍵らない。第二の場合はその逆である。これは第二
れッ現在の米價石三○○圓收種は二石として六〇〇圓に對比すればその
十五條に規定されてみるが方法は第一の場合とほと同じである。これに
償遺は極めて容易と考へるが今後の農産物價の推移は樂観を許さないの
よつて耕作者は農地を買受けることができるとともに耕地の集剛化が可
で、この規定の運用は慎重を期したい。
能である。二つの道のいづれを選ぶかは市町村農地委員會が費情に卽し
第二十八條は政府の光買權である。本法に依つて創設された自作農又
てきめればよい。
はその相縦人が政府より買受けた農地を他に変り、小作農に貸貸するこ
第二十六條乃至第二十八條は農地の夜渡に關聯して對價の支拂方法
とはできるだけ逃けなければならない。農地の譲渡貸貸等は農地調整法
年賦金の減免、政府の先買権等が規定されてるる。
で殿重に統制してみる謂であるが本係では自作選がその異地について自
先づ第二十六條では買受人は農地の對價を年賦支拂で行ふことができ
作をやめようとする場合は政府がこれを買收することした。市町村農
る旨を規定した。年利三分二厘支拂期間は据置を含めて三十年以内とな
地委員會が申入をする譯であるが、本人が病氣等の理由で一時貿貸する
八九

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.92)
八
の日より遡つてその期日を定めることができるから國が所有することに
情を知つてみながら第三者が地主からその土地を貸借した場合なとに土
よって生ずる小作料の授受等の煩雑さをさけるためできるだけ資渡の期
地を取上げられた衛小作島に農地を資渡す場合が主でありその場合は現
日を買收の期日と一致させる方針である。
在の小作機の貨借權は消減させるが、その者には政府は損失を補償する
政府から買受けた農地について買受人以外の者が氷小作權、負借權を
必要はないのである。又政府が第十六條第二項の規定によつて農業會に
持つてある場合がある。その買受人たる耕作者が永小作権者から貸借し
喪渡す場合も特別な事情がなければ大體從來の小作農に耕作させる方針
又は貫借人から轉借してみる如き場合である。これらの轉貸人は中間地
である。
主であるから、耕作してみる者がなにかの事情で一時貸貸した場合を除
変渡の計書樹立に當つては第六條第四項で述べた諸注意を守ることは
いて政府は現賞の耕作者に資渡すことを原則とするのであるが、この買
當然である。買受の機會を公正にし、耕地の集囲化を岡るためには地主
受人を完全な自作豊にするためには貸貸人の永小作棚又は負借權を消滅
からどの土地を買收するか、買收すべき濃地の選擇が重要であると共に
させなければならない。かくの如き必要は尙家を建てるつもりで地上権
買收してから資渡すまでに農地の交換をすることが必要である。短期間
を取得した者が家を建でる見込がなくなつて貸貸した場合にも起らう。
で老大な計盤を途行するのであるから農地の交換は充分な程度ではでき
これ第二十二條第一項を設けた理由である。買收は原始取得であるから
ないがこれに開する市町村農地委員會の權能を第二十三條乃至第二十五
永小作極 貸借權なと用役權は一旦消減するが第十二條第二項によって
條に規定した。交換をよる一方の農地は政府の買收した農地であり、他
復活する。これらの槌利を買受人以外の者が持つてある場合は喪渡によ
方は政府の買收しない小作地である。政府の買收した農地と自作地の
つて消波するのである。買受人の用役権が所有権の取得によつて混同に
間、政府の買收しない自作地又は小作地同志の交換はこの法律では豫定
より消減することは民法第白七十九條第一項の規定から云ふまでもある
されてみない。完全た交換分合を行ふためにはこれらをやらなければな
まい。但し他人が耕作の妨げない地役権を持つてみる場合は市町村農地
らないが短期間では無理なので、今後の問題とした課である。交換分合
委員會の認定によつてこれは存鍵することにしてある。極利の消滅に對
は例へば次の様な事例において必要である。一町歩の小作盤が二人み
しては政府は通常生ずべき損失を補償する。補似に關しては第二項以下
る。一方は大地主から小作してあるために政府はその土地を買收しその
に詳細に規定してある。農地の買收の對價はその補償額だけ低く定める
小作選に夜渡すことができる。ところが他方は一町歩の在村地主から小
のが原則である。損失補償の間題が起るのは實際は中間地主に對する場
作しておるために自作盤にはなれないと云ふ場合である。かくの如き不
合だけであらう。現在耕作してみる小作人の外永小作人も轉貸人もみな
公平さは寛際市町村農地委貞會が悩むところであらう。それでこの二人
い場合にその小作人に貸らずに他の者に変渡すと云ふのは、例へば昭和
の間題は五反歩づゝ土地を買取ることができればよいである。そのた
二十年十一月二十三日以後小作人から地主が不當に土地を取上げその事
め法律は二つの手段を講じた。所有權の交換と負借機又は永小作権の交

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.93)
しては三町歩だけこれを交付する譯であるその面積も原則として土地
一順位としいこれに資渡すのを原則とする。萬一その者がみない協合又
豪帳によることし報償金の額は農地の貫貸價格の比を求めれば大證田
はこれに賣渡すことが不適當である場合は、昭和二十年十一月二十三日
については質貸價格の十一倍、畑については十四倍となるので、事務處
當時の小作農、零細農、買收した農地について耕作してあた農葉勞働
理を簡略化するため貸貸價格にこの倍率を乗じたものを交付する豫定で
者、請負耕作者等に質渡すのである。
ある。
勿論現在の小作農に質渡すことを原則とすると云つても家庭榮岡的な
自作農の創設は農地ばかりでなく建物、宅地、探草地とか或は水利施
ものを自作地化することの意味はないので買受人は農業に精進する見込
設、農残具等の農楽用施設についても農民にその所右禮を取得させるこ
のある者とした。これは兼業農家を排斥する意味ではない。兼業農家で
とによつて十分の意味を持つことができるので第十五條では政府から農
も單なる餘業としてとなく一生懸命農業に従事する見込のある者であれ
地を買つて自作農となる者又は建物等の所有者の申請によつて市町村農
ばよいと解する。政府の買收した勘地の小作盤がその農地を買受けない
地委員會が政府において買收することを相當と認める場合はこれを買收
場合は依然として小作してみてよい譯であるが、政府はこれを所有して
できることした。農機具等の買收を必要とするのは第三條第五項によ
その者に小作させて行く場合もあるし、又市町村農業會等自作農の創設
つて大農場を解造させる場合など特に必要である。買受人又は所有者の
の事業を營む者にこれを強渡すこともできる。農業會等に資渡せば小作
申踏を必要としたのは、農地と異り機械的な買收をするのでなく具體的
人の貸借棚、氷小作檀は第二十二條第一項によつて消滅することになる
事情を判断して無理のない様に運用するためである。對價は探草地につ
ので、農菜會はその小作人と新たなる小作契約を結ぶか或は別の適當な
いては公定價格はなく、さうかと云つて現在の取引の實際に合はせれば
者にこれを資渡すことになる。
農地の價格と均衡がとれない場合も出てくるので未熱地と同様に一定の
買受の炎格ある者は第十七條によつて市町村農地委員會に對して申込
大梓は與へた。宅地や建物、農薬用施設についても公定價格のあるもの
まなければならない。申込の期日は地方長官に指定させるつもりであ
についてはそれにより、公定價格のないものについては中央農地委員會
る。その申込によつて政府は致渡すのであるが、買收のときと同様に市
において價格の基準をきめるつもりである。
町村農地委員會の定める農地資渡計畫に從つて行ふのである。農地資渡
五
計盤の作成、これに對する資渡の申込をした者の異験の申立、訴願の提
第十六條乃至第二十六條は農地の変渡に闘する規定である。
起都道府縣農地委員會の農地資渡計鑑の承認、地方長官の買受人に對
政府は以上の手教で買收した農地を自作農創設のために資渡すが、第
する賣渡通知書の交付等の手教は第十八條乃至第二十條に規定するとこ
十六條では更に財産税の物納として政府の取得した農地なども同様の手
ろであるが、これは政府の買收手殺とほと同じである。変渡による所有
教で節易に資渡すことした。買受け得る者は買收のときの小作選を第
權移轉の時期は資渡通知書に記載された時期と十る。変渡通知書の交付
八七

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.93)
八六
の公報で公告すればよい先取特機、質權、抵當権は後述の如く買收
れば買牧の手識を再びやり直さなくてよいのである。
によつて消滅するのであるから撫保権者保護のために地方長官は買牧の
地方長官は第九條により買收令書を所有者に交付するなり又は公告し
目的たる最地についてこれらの換保權を有する者に對し、令書を交付し
て買牧するが、政府が所有權を取得するのは交付又は公告の時ではな
たり公告したりしたときに通知し又は公告することへなつてある。撫保
く、第十二條で令書に記戦し又は公告した買牧の時期とした。これは作
権者はこれによつて掛保權の消滅することを知り、必要があれば第十三
物の關係なり小作料、地租の支拂の關係から政府、所有権を取得する時
條但書によつて地方長官に對償の供託を請求することができる。
期を年四回位に限ることが便利であるからである。政府が所有権を取得
第三條、第六條それから第九條で農地の面積が問題になる。面積は理
するのは賀買等の承継取得と異り原始取得である。従つて農地の上に従
來存した抵當権等の擦保機や貧供補等の用役棚は消減するのである。然
窟を云へば實測によるべきであるが、土地は慣行として土地薬帳の面積
しその農地に小作人がある場合、その郴利を消滅させることは確富では
で取引されてみるし、それに短期間に實施することが必要なので、原則
ないので貸借機等の用役権は復活することした。そしてこの復活する
として土地豪帳の面積によつて農地の價格や地主の保有限度なとを處理
することにした。實測面積と薬帳面積とは沿革的に若干の相異があるの
地上棚や永小作槌に從前擔保機がある場合はこの擔保もその上に復活す
が普通であるがそれはやむを得ない但し地目山林の土地の一部を開墾
ることこなつて空情に合ふやうにしたのである。
政府は買收した農地の對價を買收の際における所有者に支拂はなけれ
して畑にしてみるので實測しなければ畑の面積がわからない場合とか、
或は特別な事情で極端に豪帳面積と實測面積が相異してみる場合は市町
ばならない。これは當然の事であるが買收は通常の変買と異つて原始取
村農地委員會は實測するなり成はその他の方法で適宜これを修正するこ
得であるから誤解をさけるためにその旨を第十三條において規定した。
とを得ることへした。
擦保槌のある場合の供託に闘しては前述した。後述の農地誰券について
も供託の制度が適用されることは云ふまでもない。供託の效果は償務者
次に第十一條では第六條乃至第九條農地買收計豊をたてたり、異議の
申立、訴願の提起をしたり買收令書を交付したりする手護その他の行為
たる所有者が期日に支拂はないときは擔保權者は供託した對價について
は農地の所有者、撫保權者の承綱人にも效力を有することした。これ
機利を行使することができることである。
は相護等の包括承編人ばかりでなく護渡等による特定承総人の場合でも
尙現行法では對價の外に政府は一段步につき平均田では二百二十圓
同様である。勿論特定承縮は農地調整法で原則としてこれを禁止してみ
畑では百三十圓の報奨金を地主に交付したが、今回は財政上の理由もあ
るから實際問題となるのは包括承継の場合であらら。父親所有のとき農
り主として中小地主を保護する意味で同額のものを北海道では十二町
地買收計豊をたて、その買收の時期までに父親が死亡して子供にその農
歩、北海道以外では平均三町歩になるやうに第三條で述べた面積までこ
地が相織された場合、その息子の農地としても國が買收することができ
れを交付することゝした。その面積を三町歩とすれば十町歩の地主に對

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.91)
四
れるやう計鑑をたてなければならない。第四項は買收計書をたてる場合
第六條以下は國が買收する手綾に關する規定である。買收計霊は官聰
の主要な方針を規定してある。卽ち買受の機會を公正にすること、耕地
がたてるのではなく市町村農地委員會がたてるのである。第六條第一
の集剛化、田畑の制合の適正化である小作地でも國が買收するものと
項一この計畫は農地買收計輩とよばれ、買收すべき農地と、買收の時期
買收しないものがあり、政府は士地を原則として現在の小作人に喪渡す
と對價とがこできまる（第二項）買收は不在地主の土地とか大地主の
のであるから買收計飛をたてる場合は資渡すことを適當とする小作人の
土地とか買收することが明瞭で議論の餘地のないものから先に手をつけ
土地は出來るだけ買收するやうに努むべきである。
本年度中に相當買收する豫定である。尤も買牧については公告とか異題
市町村農地委貞會が買收の計盡をたてたときは第五項によつて公告し
の申立とかいろいうな手練があるので、何回かにまとめて計遊をたてさ
且つ縦覚に供する。これは第七條の異議の申立の機會を與へるためでも
せる方針である。
ある。
對價は現在の農地調整法の統制價格と同様である。農地調整法の統制
第七條は所有者に異議の申立と訴願の證能を與へる規定である。異議
方式を第三項に再び揚げたのはこの買收は土地收用法の收用と同様原始
と訴題の事項には制限ない。現行法では違法の處分に對しては行政訴訟
取得とある點と役貸徴格に對する倍率は田については四十倍、畑につい
の機昭を認めてあるが、今回は實施の期間が短い上に市町村農地委員會
ては四十八倍を明記するためである。市町村農地委員會が農地の對價を
及び都道府縣農地委員會の機成が充分民主化されたので行政訴訟は認め
定める場合は貸食價格にこれらの倍率を掛けた額の範園内できめるが
ないことにした。尙對價について不服ある者は更に第十四條によつて通
恐らく多くの場合はこの額できめると思ふ。唯縣によつて小作槌が非常
常裁判所に出訴することができる。
に強く、この額の取引が安當でない場合は本項の括弧の規定で市町村農
農地買收計役は都道府縣農地委員會の承認を受けてその效力が確定す
地委員會が地方長官に申請して低い倍率を定めるか、或は、四十倍とか
る。異説の中立たり訴願の提起は都道府悪農地委員會の承認の前にな
四十八倍と云ふ倍率を乘じた額より低くきめるのは當然である。促貸價
れなければならないので、第八條では異議の申立期間が経過するとか或
格のない農地については地方長官の認可した額によること、土地政良を
は異議の決定や訴図の裁決の效力が確定してからでなければ市町村農地
した農地とか地目が山林であるとか云ふ理由でその貸貸價格に所定の倍
委貞何は都道府縣郡地委員宮に對し承認の申請が出來ないことした
率を掛けることが不適當なものへ特別價格の申請特定の地區について
都道府縣殿地委員會の承認によつて買收計畫の效力が確定されるが
貨貸價格が低すぎる場合の倍率の愛更等は從來通りである。
これによつて農地の所有植を政府が當然に取得するのでなく第九條によ
市町村農地委員會が買收計盡をたてる場合は既に資渡の相手方を實際
り地方長官が都道府縣農地委口會の承認した計畫に從つて所有者に買收
においてきめてみる場合が多いが、買牧にあたつては資渡が適正に行は
令書を交付して行ふのである。尤も所有者に交付不可能のときは都道府
八五。

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.92)
八四
第二は都道府縣、市町村農薬會等の所有する農地で自作農創設のため
の自作地に準ずる取扱をして図が買收しないことした。一時の貸貨
に持つてあるもの又はそれで図證員が共同耕作をしてみるものはこれは
借であるかどうか、その自作選が近く自作するかどうか、そしてその
所有椎を國に移す必要はあるまい。
自作することが果して相當かどうかの認定は市町村盤地委員會において
第三は試験研究又は農事指導の目的に供してみるものである。試験研
行ふのである。自作を相當とすると云ふ意味は農地調整法第九條と同様
兜は必ずしも農薬關係にとどまらない。工業又は營業闘係の目的のもの
である。この一時貸貸借した農地は、その自作農の住所のある市町村或
でもよい。長み指導と云ふのは學校用地とか或は農民に展示することを
は隣村の特定地域にあるかどうかは闘係ないし又その面積にも一町歩と
目的とするものである。國、公共團體が經營の主體であれば第一で當然
いふ制限はない。たと自作地と違ふのは、この一時貸貸借した盤地が一
國が買敗しないが、民間のものは買收を不適當とするものを地方長官が
町以上あればその外に小作地一町步の保有が記められないと云ふ點であ
指定する。これによつて脫法的なものを防止することへした。
第四は都市計畿法第十三條による「宅地トシテノ利用タ増進スル爲
第七は開飛後まだ年敷があまりたない選地、燒畑、切替畑等で收穫
の土地區劃監理を施行する土地と同法第十六條による道路、廣場、河川
が著しく不安定なものその他鎮山、炭坑の附近の農地で消沒の危險のあ
等の施設に必要な土地の境域内にある豊地は、これらの事菜の性質から
るもの、新潟縣の一部にある様な時々御地をやる、いはゆる地割慣行の
云つて自作選創設を不適當とすることの明かなものもあるので、地方長
ある濃地は図がわざわざ買收して自作遊を創設することを適當としない
官がこれらの境域内で一定の區基を指定したときはその區城内の恐地は
ものがあるので市町村選地委員會の認定によつて政府は買收しないこと
國が貿收しないことした。尤も敗戦の結果として例へば土地區闘監理
とした。
をやつても當分住宅地となる見込のない場合が多いと思はれるので地方
さて第五條によつて政府が買收しない選地は第三條第一項で國が買收
長官の指定は實情に卽して相當窮屈なものとならう。
する選地と面積の上でどう云ふ隔係にあるか。第三條第四項で今第七で
第五に現在は避地でも近い將來住宅地なり工場敷地なりになるものは
述べた新開坐地等は一町步なり三町步たりの面積には算人しない旨を規
自作豊創設のために國が買收することは意味がないので盘地の使用目的
定した。即ち新開製地の小作地で國が買收しないことにしたものを三町
の勢更の意思が確定的であり然もそれが土地の有效利用の面から云って
步持つてある場合は不在地主でもそれは買取らないし、在村地主であれ
やむを得ない農地で市町村農地委員會が都道府縣農地委員會の承認之得
ば、その外に普通の小作地一町歩を保有できる譯である。
て指定したものは國が買取らない。
この大體第七に述べた濃地以外は一町步なり三町步なりの面私に算入
第六に自作選が疾病、出征等の理由で一時小作に出した農地で、その
される。從つて工場敷地となるので図が買取らなかつた小作地が一町步
事情がやめば當然舊自作選の手にもどつて耕作されるもいはその自作農
あれば在村地主はその外に小作地の保有はできなくなるのである。

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.94)
料の物納制を維持しようとする試みが現はれてみるので、この様な脱法
た
的なものは國が買收することこした。請負と云つても田植とか頼刈とふ
第五はいはゆる不耕作地である。職爭中は相當不耕作地も生じたが現
脱穀調製とか云ふ一部の作薬の請負はこへに入らない。耕作の全過程か
在は復員等の關係で餘程減少してのると思にれる。第二條第二項の定義
或はそれに近い主要部分の請負と解すべきである。又組合契約による共
で自作地も小作地も耕作の薬務に供してある農地とあるから不耕作地は
同耕作の場合でも自作盤同志の協同作業は當然談當しない。この第二號
自作地でも小作地でもなくそれが何町歩あつても買收の對象とならない
の條文の意味は一歌明瞭でないがこの條文がなければ請負耕作や共同耕
こととなつて不合理なので、これは政府が買收することとしたのであ
作の場合の地主も法律上はその農地について耕作の業務を營む者で自作
220
農であり、その農地は自作地となつて第一項の規定では買收を免れてし
第六に三町步以下の自作地在、村地主の一町步以下の小作地で法律上
まふのである。
政府が買收しないものでも所有者が法の精神に共鳴し、その買收を政府
第三は法人その他の團題の自作地で経營の方法の拙劣で生産力が低い
に求める場合もあるかと豫想されるので、さう云ふ申出のある土地は無
ものは、面積の制限なしに全部買取ることができることへした。これは
制限に政府が以收し得ることこしたのである。
法人その他の剛體が農業を營むことを抑へる趣旨ではない。大企業紙營
第一項及び第五項で説明した地主の小作地の保有面積なとは現行法で
が我國に於て急速に發達することは遺憾ながら望み難いがとにかく現在
は個人単位できめてあるのであるが第四條では家、世帶単位できめるこ
機械や大家音を導入して合理的な農業継營を行つてあるものは國は買收
とした。農地の所有者の同居の戶主、家族、それから戶主又は家族で
しない。問題となるのは工場の自給選場であるが、戦時中軍の威力を借
第二條で設明した如き理由で一時別居してみる者の所有してある農地は
りて、農民から土地を取上げ、現在でも避民の怨嗟の的となつてみるも
一括して三町歩なり一町歩なりの規定を適用するのである。
第二項はこの一時同居しなくなつた者も不在地主とはされないことの
のは真に止むを得ない程度の面積を除いてはすべてこの規定で開放する
ことを至當と考へる。自給農場以外でも法人その他の剛體が經營してみ
規定であるが、これは前述した。
第五條は第三條の例外的規定である。第三條によれは國が買收するの
るといふのは名はかりで貸勞働者と云ふのは賀質的に小作人であつて生
産力も低く、むしろ政府が買收して自作農を創設することが選業の發達
であるが、本法により買收することを適當としないために買收しない農
上望ましいと思はれる場合はこの規定が發助する譯である。
地は次の通りである。
第四に法人その他の幽盟の小作地は全部政府が買收することができ
第一に國、公共團體が公共用又は公用に供してある農地である。農地
る。法人などに小作地一町歩を殘すことが、無意味である場合もあるの
であるから公用に供してみると云ふのは主して試驗場關係であり公共用
で、そのときは一町歩以下についても買收することができることとし
に供してみる場合も稀れであらう。
八三

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.94)
八二
準に住所を用ひるのは民法第一十一條は「生活ノ本據一とあって明瞭で
承認を得てきめることができる。一縣内で平坦部と山岳部と農地事情が
あるが、居所の概念は不明確で、認定に問題を起しやすいばかりでなく
異る如き場合であらう。北海道についても同様である。但し都道府縣農
地委負會が勝手に面積をきめることは困るのでこれらの面積は平均が大
居所を加へて現行法で救はらとしたのは村には住所はないが村と生活上
密接な闘係がある。いはば住所に準ずるやうな居所を持つてある者であ
體その都道府縣につき定められた面積にならなければならないことへし
た。（第三項）。
るが、就學、疾病、出征等で村を一時離れてみる者は本法第四條第二項
第四項は後述する。
で不在地主とは見ないことにしたので、今回は居所と云ふ概念を捨てた
以上述べた小作地は國が當然買收するのであつて問題となるのは、具
誰である。
體的にどの農地を買取るかと云ふことだけであるが。第五項に掲げる選
國の當然に買收する農地の第二は在村地主の持つてある小作地で、北
地は都道府縣農地委員會又は市町村農地委員會が現在の所有者の手に留
海道では四町步、北海道以外の都府縣では平均一町步を超える部分であ
る。（第一項第二號）第三に在村地主が小作地の外自作地を持つてある
めず政府が買收して自作選を創設することが望ましいと認定するときは
場合に兩者合計して北海道では十二町步、北海道以外の都府縣では三町
政府が買收することこなつてみる。
第一は北海道で十二町步、北海道以外の都道府縣では平均三町步にな
歩を越す場合にに、小作地の面積が一町歩以下であつても越す部分だけ
國は買取るのである。第一項第三號）
るやうに定めた面積以上の自作地を經營してみる者で農薬経營が適正で
第二、第三の適用について誤解を避けるために例をあげると、某縣の
ない場合は、その面積を超える部分は自作地でも國が買收することが出
8
地の小作地保有面積を一町步、第三の面積を三町步とした場合在村地
來るのである。非能率的な経營にまかすより土地不足に惱む者に土地を
主の持つてみる小作地が五反歩であれば國は買收しない。小作地が一町
譲り渡すことが理ましい場合である。耕作業務が適正でないかどうかの
二反であれば二反買收する。自作地二町と小作地二町の場合は小作地一
判定は、自家勞力を基幹とするかどうか、生産力が高いかどうかによつ
町を買收する。自作地二町五反と小作地一町であれば小作地五反だけ
て決定されるであらう。
作地三町と小作地一町であれば小作地一町を買收する譯である。
第二に我國には請負耕作とか組合契約による共同耕作とか法律的に云
この一町歩とか三町歩とか云ふ面積は平均一町步又は三町步になるや
へば小作契約ではないが質體的に云へばやはり地主小作の關係に等しい
うに中央農地委員貧が都府縣別に定める。これは本法が施行になると直
ものが若十あるが、これは政府が買收ずることができることとした。特
に定めるつもりである第一項及び第二項中央農地委員所が都府縣
に農地調整法の改正以來地主が小作人から土地を取上げ從前の小作人に
別に面積をきめても都府縣の區域で一律に行かない場合は縣内を二以上
請負耕作を行はしたり、又は地主が土地を提供し小作人が勞力肥料等を
の區域に分これに適用する面積を都道府縣農地委自會が農地委員會の
提供して共同緋作をすることとし、土地の強制護渡を免れると共に小作

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.94)
目の規定がある。以下各規定について概略脱明する。
る。通常の観念で云へば自己又は自己と同一世帶にある者の所有してみ
11
る農地について耕作してみる場合は自作地で、それに息子が東京で學校
第一條は自作最創設の目的が規定されてみる。自作農の創設の意味は
に行つて居り、父親が田舍でその息子名義の盤地を耕作してみる場合も
要するに適正な價格で小作農に土地を取得させ、小作料の重い負捨を終
これに入る。
局的になくすと共に、耕作機の確立を最も強い形で實現させることにあ
小作地は、永小作權又は貨借權に基く通常の小作地の外使用貸借卽ち
る。それが耕作者の地位を安定し、その勞働の成果を公正に卒受させる
たとで借りてみる場合、窓柑山などを地上棚によつて耕作してみる場
ことである。自作農の創設の規模はほと二百萬町歩、全小作地二百六十
合、不動産質権によつて耕作してみる場合も小作地となる。これらの權
萬町歩の約八割と推定されるが、この大面積の小作地の開放は二年位で
利を経營主の同居の家族などが持つてみる場合も同様である。
終了させたい。自作慶となつて耕作橋の安定を得小作料の負擔から脫
次に自作選と小作農の定義である。自作農とは自作地について耕作の
却した農民が經營に全力を注きその改善擴大に努めることが期待され
薬を營む個人を云ひ小作農とは小作地について耕作の薬を營む個人をい
る。耕作農民の地位の向上は又農村民主化の推進力である。
ふ。何社等の法人は含まれない。自作農であるか小作選であるかは個々
第二條は本法で用ひられる重要な言葉の定義である。農地の定義は現
の農地についてきまるのであつて、同一人が小作地についていへば小作
行農地調整法と同じで、現に耕作されてみる土地である。現に耕作され
農であり自作地についていへば自作農である。
てみなくても、直に耕作し得る所謂不耕作地もこれに入る。農地である
111
か否かは客親的に定まるのであつて土地楽帳に記戦されてみる地目のい
第三條は國が買收する農地について規定してある。図が買收する農地
かんには關係ない。土地環帳の地目が山林であつても現狀遊地ならば
には當然買收するものと認定によつて買收するものと二種類ある。國が
それはこの法律における農地である。
當然買收する農地は第一に不在地主の持つ小作地である第一項第一
次に自作地、小作地の定義であるが、本法においては後述の如く自作
號）こへに不在地主と云ふのは、現行選地調整法におけるよりも範園は
地は例外的にしか國が買收しないけれども、小作地は大部分買收するの
多少跟くなつてある。現行法では農地の所有者が住所又は居所のある市
であるからその區別は重要である。自作地は大體通常の觀念と一致す
町村又はその隣接市町村に提地がある場合は不在地主とされなかつた
る。「耕作の薬務を營む者」卽ち經營主が自己の所有地について耕作し
第四條ノ四が、本法では住所のある市町村とその隣接市町村で市町
てみる場合は勿論、その同居の戸求又は家族、それから現在は同居して
村農地委員會が都道府縣農地委員會の承認を得て、たとへば村境にある
みなくても、病氣とか就學とか或は今次の戦争に出征してみた爲に一時
部落でその市町村の臨城の一部とみなせるやうな社會上経済上密接な闘
同居しなくなつた者の持つてみる農地について耕作してみる場合であ
係のある地域だけにととめた。又不在地主であるかどうかを決定する標

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.94)
20
困難なので、改正法では地方長官が二つ以上の地區農地委員會を置き得
十一自作農創設特別措置法の逐
る規定を定めた。大體最近の合併前の市町村の區域に置くのが安當であ
條說明
らう。一市町村に二つ以上の地區農地委員會を置いた場合は、市町村農
地委員會の規定が適用される。自作農創設特別措置法第四十八條で在村
地主か不在地主かをきめる場合の市町村の區域、又は隣接市町村と云ふ
光づこの法律の大體の構成を説明する。第一條は目的、第二條は農
のは地隊農地委員會の設けられた地區とされることは注意すべきであら
地、自作地、小作地及び自作農、小作農の定義、第三條から第五條まで
5。
は國が買收する農地第六條から第十四條までは大體政府の買收につい
第十六條及び附則第四項では免税關係の規定を本法の改正に合せて整
ての規定である。第十五條は豊業用施設、土地又は建物も自作農創設上
理した。
必要ある場合は政府が買收し得る旨の規定である。第十六條から第二十
六條までは國の資渡に闘する規定、第二十七條は農産物の下落等の場合
における農地の買受者の保護の規定、第二十八條は國から農地を買受け
た者が自作をやめようとするときは國がその農地を買收する規定であ
る。第二十九條は第十五條の規定によつて政府が買收した農業用施設
土地又は建物の変渡に闘する規定、第三十條から第四十一條までは未墾
地の買收及び資渡に闕する規定、第四十二條は買收豫定地等の使用制限
に陽する規定である。第四十三條は國が買收した農地、未墾地等の代金
の支拂に關する規定、第四十四條は登記に闕する規定、第四十五條は行
政官感の報告を徴する権能に關する規定、第四十六條は政府の買收した
土地、立木等の管理に關する規定、第四十七條は主務大臣又は地方長官
が市町村農地委員會、都道府縣農地委員會の權限を都道府縣農地委員
會、地方長官なとに處理させる規定、第四十八條は地區農地委員會に關
する規定、第四十九條は六大都市に關する特例等第五十條及び第五十一
係は罰則である。尙附則に市町村農地委員會が農地買收計畫をたてる場
合は昭和二十一年十一月二十三日現在の狀況を基礎とすることができる

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.92)
を營むのは現行法では「當談市町村ノ區域内＝於テ」と云ふ限定があつ
第十五條ノ十三以下は都道府縣農地委員會についての規定である。
たへめ出作者は何れの村においても選舉機被選舉機を持たないことへな
光つ第十五條ノ十四で、都道府縣農地委員會の委員の選舉方法を改正
るので、今回はこの限定を棄てへ出作者も一定面積を耕作してみれば住
した。第一に現行法では市町村選地委員會の會長が互選することになつ
所のある市町村においてこれを有することへなつた。
てみたが、改正法では選舉された委員が各層別に互選することこした。
第十五條ノ四は選衆權被選舉權の缺格原因を規定した。現行法では
第二に現行法では各郡別に一人各市全體で一人委員を互選することこな
未成年者及び禁治産者は被選舉檻は持たないが選舉權はあつた。今回は
つてみたが、改正法では都道府縣をいくつかの選舉區に分けて全造で地
成年の世郡員が選悪権被選郷権を持つことへなつたので、これらの選撃
主六人自作四人小作十人を互選することした現行法では互選委目の
植は例除した。
人数は郡の数に一を加へたものであるが、改正法では二十人と固定させ
第十五條ノ三第三項の不在者投票の制度も手穫を徒に繁鎖とするのみ
た。尙學識經験者から農林大臣が五人乃至十人の委員を選ぶことは現行
であまり質效はないので今回は削除した。
法と同じである。
第十五條ノ九で現行法では委員の任期は一年としたが、一年は短かす
第十七條ノ二は市町村農地委員會に闘する特例である。現行法では各
ぎる感があるばかりでなく。自作農實施の期間二ヶ年は委員の交替がな
階層の被選舉機者の數が委員の定敗に滿たない場合は市町村農地委員會
いことが事務の産理上望しいので二ヶ年に延長した。
を置かないことへしたが、改正法では市町村豊地委員會はできるだけ設
又現行法第十五條ノ十は選舉された委員が被選舉權を失はなくても地
置する方針なので、この場合には當談階暦の委員の人敷を減少するなり
主、自作、小作の防府を異にしたときは失職する規定を設けてみるが改
地方長官が選任できる如き特例を設ける方針である。
正法では選撃された委員の失職事由は被選衆權を失つた場合に限ること
市町村農地委會はできるだけ設置するつもりであるが、京橋區とか日
して原則として二年間委員を動かさないことへした。從つて委員會の
本橋區とか或は農地の全くないと云つてよい山村、漁村には置かないこ
空氣が固定する危險があるので、これを救ふために第十五條ノ九第二項
とが第二項に規定してある。この揚合現行法では市町村長が市町村農地
にリコール制をおいた。卽ち各階層に屬する選察植者が二分の一以上同
委員會の権限を處理することへなつてみたが、改正法では隣接市町村に
意すれば各階層の委員の全員の辭職を市町村長に要求し得ることし
設置されてみる市町村農地委員會の中地方長官の指定したものに行はせ
た又第三項及び第四項では地方長官が選任した委員は選事された委員
ることへした。
の全員の同意があればこれを解任できることへなつてある。
第三項は一市町村に二つ以上の農地委員會を置く規定である最近市
第十五條ノ十一で議事を公正にするために、會議の公開と議事録の作
町村の合併が相當頻葉に行はれ、市が十数ヶ町村を合併したものもある
成縦覚の規定を置いた。
様で、この市に一つの市町村農地委員會を間くのでは事務慮理が非常に
七九

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.94)
八
有する者、又は一定面積以上の農地につき耕作の薬を營む者に選撃権を
定は今後はなくなった。
興へたが、今回は第十五條ノ二第五項及び第十五條ノ三において農地も
第五項は前述の如く地主、自作、小作の世帶に屬する者は全員が同一
所有せず、耕作の薬務み營まなくてもこれらの同居の戶主又は家族で成
資格となる規定である。
年の者は選舉拙を有することこした第三は現行法では選撃による委員
委貴の定數は現行法では地主五人自作五人小作五人中立三人合計十八
の外地方長官は常に「懲望紹ぬアん」中立委員三人を選ぶことへなつて
人であつて市町村による増減はなかつた。改正法の第六項では原則とし
みるが、今回は第十五條ノ二第八項において中立委員は原則として選任
て地主三人自作二人小作五人として小作人の發言極を増大した。中立委
せず唯選事によつて選任された委員が全員一致して推す場合に限つて地
員は原則として置かない選事による委員の定數は市町村によつて増加を
方長官が三人まで中立委員を選任することができることへした。尤も第
認めないと農地而積の大きい市町村とか部落數の多い市町村では不都合
十五條ノ二第二項但書で會長に充てるべき中立委員を選任する場合は
を來しやすいので、第七項では地方長官が十人以内で増加することがで
全員一致の同意と云ふことは考へられないのでこの場合は第九項におい
きる。どの委員を増加すべきかと問題であるが小作の委員の増加数と地
て全員一致を要しないことへした。
主自作の委員の増加數が等しいことを要するとした。小作を一人増加す
地主、自作小作の區別は現行法と同じである。第十五條ノ二第三項
れば地主か目作で一人、小作を二人増加すれば地主か自作で二人増加す
の規定によれば地主は不耕作地主と所有而積が耕作面積の二倍を超える
る如きである。地主と自作の増加をいかにすべきかは法律の面では表れ
者である所有而積二町一反耕作面積一町の場合がこれに當る。小作は
てるないが、一方のみを増加させず均衡をとらせる方針である。
純小作ばかりでなく耕作面積が所有面積の二倍を超える者である。耕作
第十項では委員の身分は現行法通り名機職とした。
面積二町一反所有面積一町の者がこれに當る。自作は農地を所有する
第十五條ノ三は選悪權被選舉機の資格の規定である。選舉施、披選舉
と同時に耕作してみる者でこへに云ふ地主にも小作にも入らない者であ
権は市町村に住所を有する者で一定面積以上の農地につき耕作の薬務を
る。例へば耕作面積を一町歩とすれば所有而積が五反から二町歩までの
營む者、又は當該市町村の區城において一定面積以上の農地を所有する
者である。
者及びその同居の戸主又は家族が持つこととなつた。この一定面積は現
第四項に耕作の薬務を營む者の此帶に属する者及びその者の戶主又は
行法では一反歩となつてみるが改正法の施行令では北海道では一町歩、
家族で就学、疾病その他已むをえない事山で一時同居しなくなつた者の
都府縣では三反歩位に引上げるつもりである。尤も都府縣の事情により
所有してみる農地は耕作の薬務を營む者の所有するものと看做されるか
三反歩以下にきめる權限を地方長官に持たせることへならう。
ら結局地主、自作、小作の何れに屬するかは大體世帶について決定され
選舉極被選舉權の資格としての土地所有は現行法通り「當該市町村
る譯である。尙所有面積も耕作面積も住所のある市町村の區城と云ふ限
區城=於テ」と云ふ限定があるから不在地主は排除される。耕作の薬務

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.95)
3
委員會の承認を受けない土地の取上は罰則の對象となるがその法的效力
て書面契約いものは極く少い。そのために権利闘係が不明確で土地取上
については疑問があつた。前述した第九條第一項の條件に反した土地の
を要求される場合など小作人の不利になることも少くないので、今回そ
取上が無效であることは疑がないが、その條件に反してあるか否かの認
の書面化を岡ることした。模範契約は中央農地委員會で定めこれを勅
定が困難であつた。それで今回の政正では移動の制限と同様承認を受け
令に規定すると共にできれば恐林省において印刷しこれを配付したい考
なければ罰則も課せられるし效力も致生しないことこした。更に第三に
へである。書面にすべき内容は小作料の額、支拂條件等である。尤も在
當分の内は土地取上を原則として禁止し事情全くやむを得ないものにつ
來口頭契約であつたものを書面化する場合には權利關係が不明確であつ
いてのみこれを許す建前から附則の第三項で市町村機地委員會の承認に
たために種々際擦を生ずる庭もあり、又小作人の不利にきめられること
代つて地方長官の許可を要することこした。當分の間と云ふのは法律施
も考へられるので勅令において契約書の寫を市町村農地委員會に屈出づ
行後二年間位を豫定してみる。
べきこととする後定である。尙本條の法律的效力であるが本條は效力規
第九條ノ八は新しい規定である。過去において高率現物の小作料か日
定でもなく又取締規定でもない。いはと訓示規定と云へよう。從つて書
本農薬の特質をなしてるたことは設明するまでもないが、戦時中の地主
面にしないからと云つて契約が無效になつたり罰則がかへると云ふこと
米價と生産者米價の二重制や最近の金納化の指置によつて小作料の負擔
はない。それは反つて小作人の不利になるから自作農の創設と共に一種
は非常に少くなち、若し小作料の統制がゆるぎなく行はれへば現在では
の運動として書面化を全面的に推進する考へである。
小作料が生産を阻碍すると云ふ事情は全くなくなつたつである。ところ
第十五條以下市町村農地委員會については主として委員の選事方法に
が農産物の價額が將來においてどの様に遊移するかは豫想できないこと
ついて改正した。
であるのでこの際恒久法としての本法に最高小作料の制度を置くこと
第十五條ノ二第二項において、會長は現行法通り委員の互選としたが
した。最高小作料はどこを標準としてきめるか困難な問題であるが、法
改正法では第一委員の對立によつて會長の互選が不可能になることを慮
文にある如く田では米、畑では変、諸等の主作物の最近何ヶ年かの收穫
つて、その場合は地方長官か中立委員の中から任命できることへした。
物の價額に對する一定の剛合を基準として、それを超える場合は小作人
第三項以下は複雅な規定であるが、要するに地主、自作小作に屬する者
に減額請求種を與へることへした。この一定割合は二制五分以下で中央
が自己の屬する君から委選ふ趣旨である。現行法との主な相異を説
農地委員會においてきめるが、この規定は自作農創設特別指證法第二十
明すると第一に現行法では地主、自作、小作の資格を各個人について決
七條の償遺金の支拂減免の規定と共に中央農地委以會において運用の慎
定する方法をとつた為剛分質情に合はぬ結果を生じたので、今回は第十
皿を期したい。
五條ノ二第四項においてこれを世帶について定めることにした。第二に
第九條ノ十も新しい規定である。日本の小作契約は大部分口頭であつ
現行法では住所の存する市町村の區域において一定面積以上の農地を所
王

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.94)
して脱法される危險があるので附則第二項で本改正法實施前に成立した
の一として小作権の確立が岡られてみないと云はれるが、それは誤解で
第六條第三號に闘する契約であつても改正法施行の際まだ農地の引渡も
あつて現行法では第一に土地取上の可能な場合を制限してある。それは
登記もすんでないものは改正法第四條の統制に服することこした。
第九條第一項に規定されてみる。小作人が正當な理由なくして小作料を
現行法の第六條は拠利の設定又は移轉について認可の不要な場合を列
滞納してみる場合、その農地を宅地なとに機更することの相當な地合
舉してみるが、各號の中第二號は現行法第四條第一項及び第六條の自作
地主に自作の意志があるばかりでなく自作の能力があり、地主が耕作し
農創設維持事薬はなくなるので不要になつた。又第三號は「耕作ヲ目的
た方が小作が耕作するよりも生産力があがり、且つ土靴の取上によって
トンテ」極利を取得する場合は認可を不要としたへめ、地まが土地を護
小作人が生活に困らないと云ふ條件があつてこへに云地主の自作を相
渡する場合の脱法手段に用ひられるばかりでなく耕作を目的とする貸借
當とする場合その他土地の取上に正當な理由がある場合に限るとした。
機の設定又は護渡が全く統制の埒外に置かれ、農地の有效利用の面から
第二は土地の取上はこの様な條件がある上に市町村農地委員會の承認を
極めと不合理な結果となるので改正法ではこの例外を例除して、この第
必要とし承認なくして土地の取上を行へば罰則がかへることになつてみ
六條を第五條にした。
るのである。ところが法の趣旨が農村に充分徹底しなかつたことへ市町
第六條は農地の潰般の制限に関する新しい規定である。潰地の制限は
村農地委員會の委員の選要が三月に施行飛定のところ今に至るまで施行
戦時中臨時農地等管理令によつて行はれたのであるが、戰後工場の敷地
することを得なかつたので土地取上の事例は相當多く各地に紛機を起し
として潰地が大皿に生することは豫想されないので現行法ではこれを削
た。今秋からは態々小作料の金納化が現質の間題となるし、小作地の開
除した。ところが、最近熟田熟畑を宅地に使用する傾向が段々増加して
放は態々本格的となるので土地取上は再び激化する情勢にあるが。これ
來たばかりでなく、自作農創設特別指置法による農地の買收を妨げるた
を放任しては選地改革の変味は大半失はれる危險もあるので、土地の取
めに故意に農地を潰すと云ふ傾向の生ずることも愛へられるので、農地
上は更にこれを制限することへした。その方法の第一は土地の取上と云
の潰般は地方長官の許可を要することした。尤も自作選創設特別指置
つても現行法では「貸貸借ノ解約又へ契約更新ノ拒絶」であつて「貸代
法案にある都市計畫關係の農地、使用目的變更豫定の農地、新開熱地
借ノ解除」は抑へてみない「買貸借解除」は借務下履行による債機
規畑切替畑及び五十坪未滿の農地で市町村農地委員會の認めたものなと
者の當然の機利であつて、それを行政機で制限するのはおかしいと云ふ
は地方長官の許可を不要とするつもりである。この許可には第二項で條
のが從來の法理論であつた。ところが最近の傾向として相當以前に行は
件を附けることができる。例へば工場敷地とすることは治支へないが煙
れた小作料の滞納等位務不履行を理由とする解除の請求が土地取上の一
害の防除施設の工事を條件として許可する如きである。
方法として地主に利用されて小作人を困惑させた事例も少くないので
第九條は小作地取上の制限に關する規定である現行法に對する非難
「貸貸借ノ解除」も制限することにした第二は現行法では市町村農地

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.94)
光づ第一條の目的である。現行法には「互議相助ノ精神三則り」とか
十農地調整法の一部を改正する
一農地ノ所有者及耕作者ノ地位ノ安定」とか云ふ文字がある。農地改革
法律案の逐條說明
においてもこれらの精神は尊産されるべきであるが、國が地主から強制
的に土地を賞收する本法の建前から云へば、この精神を特に第一條の目
的として掲げるのは當を得てみないので、今回は、餘分の修飾をとつて
現行法中自作奏則設に關する部分が政正されて自作農創設時別指置法
「耕作者ノ地位ノ安定」と云ふ目的をはつきり表現することにした。
となつたので農地調整法は小作闘係を主とし、その外移動潰後の統制
第四條乃至第四條ノ十二は形を變へて自作農創設特別指置法となつた
農地價格の統制、農地委員會に闘する法律となつた。いづれも現行法の
のでこれを削除した。
改正が主で新しく入つた規定としては、農地の潰後の統制と小作料の最
改正法第四條の農地の有效利用及び土地兼併の防止を目的とする移動
高額の制限小作契約の書面化に闘するものである。
統制は現行法の第五條とほと同様であるが、地方長官又は市町村長の認
現行法の規定を概説すると第一條は目的第二條は農地と小作料の定
可がなければ權利の設定又は移轉は法律上無效であると云ふ規定を、第
義、第三條は市町村農地委口會の農地の管理又は買收、第四條乃至第四
一に地方長官の許可又は市町村農地委員會の承認がなければ權利の設定
條八十二は自作農則設、第五條及び第六條は邊地の移動統制、第六條
又は移轉を爲すことを得ないこととした。耕作を目的とする貸借望义は
二乃至第六條八四は農地の價路統制、第七條は自作地登記、第七條八二
使用貸借による権利の設定又は移轉については市町村農地委員會の承認
は本法によって自作機になつた者がその土地を他に譲渡して利益を得た
で足りるとして手練を簡易化するつもりである。第二に現行法では效力
場合の地主の利益返還請求権、第八條及び第九條は小作植の保護、第九
規定となつてみて許可がなければ無效であるとしてみるが、農村の法律
條ノ二乃至第九條ノ八は小作料の金納化、適正化及びストップ、第十一
意識から云つて所有槌や貸借拙の移轉か無效であると云つてもあまり效
條乃至第十四條は小作調停に關十る特例第十五條乃至第十五條八十八
果がないので改正法では效力規定である共とに取締規定であることにし
は市町村農地委員會及び都道府縣農地委員會、第十六條は地方稅の免除
た。從つて所定の許可又は承認を受けずに極利を移轉すれば法律上無効
第十七條は行政官應の報告微收權その他、第十七條八二は市町村農地委
でもあるし、罰則がかこると云ふことになる。第二項で許可、承認には
員會を置かない場合の特例、第十七條ノ三は六大都市等に關する特例
條件を附けることができるから申請が農地の有效利用の面から好ましく
第十七條ノ四乃至第十七條ノ六は罰則である。以下改正の諸點について
ない場合には他の適當な人を選んでその者に權利を取得させん様指導す
説明する。
ることができる。尙事質上は本改正法實施後の契約であっても現行法第
11
六條第三號により耕作を目的としてユ利の設定又は移轉をしたのだと稱
七五

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.94)
中图
土地所有者から強制的に農地の買收を行ひ、自作農となるべき者にこれ
防止するために、農地の移助統制及び小作地取上の制限を一層強化する
を賣渡すことと致したのであります。買牧の對象となる農地と致しまし
ことと致したのであります。
ては、不在地主の所有する農地の外、在村地主の所有する小作地につい
尙右の自作農創設に關する措置と相俟ち、殘存する小作關係について
て、従來全國平均五町步迄保有が認められて居ましたのを、今回は内地
も小作料の最高額の制限、小作契約の文書による締結等必要なる指置に
では機ね一町步、北海道では四町歩に引下げてこれを超える小作地全部
より小作關係の適正と小作人の地位の向上とを剛ることと致したのであ
を買收することと致し、自作地については従來通り原則として買收致さ
ります。
ないことにしてみるのであります。
以上が兩法案の主要な内容でありますが何卒慎重御審議の上速かに御
これにより約二百萬町步以上の小作地を國は買收し概ね二ヶ年間で自
協賛あらん事を切望する次第であります。
作農を創設致す所存であります。農地の買收價格は現行通りであります
が、農地の買收を受けた土地所有者に對しては一定面積（内地三町步
北海道十二町歩）を限度として現行通りの額の報供金を交付することと
致して居るのであります。唯買收代價の支拂については、現下の金融事
情に鑑みまして、農地證券の交付によることと致して居るのでありま
す。又農地を買受けた農民は可能の限度で、農地代價を一時拂ひ致し、
その残額は低利で長期償還の途を確保されて居りますと共に將來都済事
情の激變によって假に農産物價が著しく低落致すやうな場合がありまし
ても、その年賦償還額は土地購入者にとつて過大の負撫となることのな
い様に政府に於て之を滅免する保證をも與へて居る次第であります。
又未盤地についても既墾地に準じて之を買收することと致して居るの
であります。
次に農地調整法中改正法律案につきましては自作農創設特別指從法
案の制定に照想致しまして自作農創設事楽の實際に當る農地委員會を
民主的に改組致し、土地所有者及び小作人同数を以て組織することと致
して居るのでこります。又自作農創設を聞ると共に將來、濃地の乗併を

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.93)
j
が成立を見たのでありますがその實施後の諸情勢の推移と愛遷とはより
九第九十議會に於ける自作農創
完全なる改革を必要とするに至つたのであります。されば第一次農地政
設特別措置法案及び農地調整
革を更に慎重に檢討致しこの基本線に沿つて其の強化徹底を岡つて参る
ことに致したのであります。卽ち第二次の改革に依り我國小作地の大半
法改正法律案提樂理由說明
は國家自らの手に依つて短期間に強力に且つ公正に農民に解放さるるの
自作為創設特別指置法案及び農地調整法中改正法律案に付きまして其
みならず、分散せる耕地は交換分合により集團化されることにより經營
の提案理由の大證を御設明申上げたいと思ひます。
の合理化が期待せらるると共に、未墾地に就ても國家自身迅速に之を取
今日我國の當面する最大の間題はボッダム宜言の趣旨に則り國内各分
得し開發するの途を開き既墾地の開放と相俟つて農地改革の效果を完ふ
野に於ける民主化を促進するのみならず此の基盤の上に生産を再開し其
することと致したのであります。斯くして今回の農地制度の改革により
の肚會的生産力を高め以て民主的日本再建の方途に遺憾なからしむるに
まして我國農村の社會の構成は變貌するに至り自作たる中小農民がその
あると思ふものであります。洵に社會的生産力の發長の裏付なくしては
構成の手流を爲すに至るでありませう。
日本の民主主議もその豊かなる賞を結ぶことは出來ません。斯く考へま
勿論この農地制度の改革の結果を以て直ちに農村の民主化成れりと速
するときに我國産業構造の基盤を為す農業にしてその生産力の發展は停
断するものではありません。俳し乍ら今回の豊地制度改革により彼等の
滞して低くその構造は近代化されざる催に止りますならば、再建日本の
地位は強化され、彼等は其の公正なる勞働の成果を享受し生産方法を
基終は洵に脆弱にして従つて日本の民主主義の發展も亦歪められざるを
近代化し得るの途を開かるへと共に民主的教養を身につけ得るの機會を
得ないでありませう。この結果を避くる爲には農業制度の基本たる農地
得ましたことは、明日の明切なる農村の發展の基礎を確立するに至つた
制度の根本的改革を不可缺の條件と致すのであります。
と信ずるものであり斯る發展性に宮む極貌されたる民主的農村の基盤の
卽ち農地の所有分配利用の關係を合理化することによつて耕作する農
上にのみ壯認なる平和日本の再建は可能であると確信するものでありま
民の手に剰餘の菩積の餘地を興へ之をその経營に再投養することに依つ
t。
て農業の近代化社會的生産力發展の途を開き以て農村の民主化を促進す
これ今回第二次農地改革を實施する為必要な自作農創設特別措置法案
ることこそ強固なる地盤の上に民主的日本を再建するの途と考ふるもの
及農地調整法中政正法律案を提出した所以であります。以下兩法案の主
であります。この観點よりして政府は去る第八十九回臨時議會に一自作
要なる内容について概略御説明申し上げます。
農則設の強化口小作料の金納化曰農地委員會の民主化並に強化等一
光づ自作農創設特別指置法案の内容について申し上げますと、第一は
連の第一次盤地制度の改革を内容とする機地調整法改正法律を提出し之
自作農創設に必要な農地は、農地委員會の計豊に從ひまして、國が自ら
七三

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.83)
七二
依ん其ノ定十キ卜十八清算人へ命令ノ定ムル所二依り裁判所ノ許可
者第三項ノ主管者又へ總代ガ置力ルん二至ル迄之各當該宗
受ケ他ノ宗教法人又へ公往事業ノ爲ェ之ッ臨分スルコトッ得
教法人ノ代務者及總代タルモノト看做ス
前項ノ規定依り臨分セラレザル財達へ國庫歸陽ス
田町村制
附則（昭和二十年勅令第七百十九號）
町村制第二十二條第六項
第二項本令施行際現二存スル法人～教派、宗派及教團竝二寺
院及教會へ之宗教法人卜看做其教則、宗制、教團規則寺
投票關スル記載=付テへ勅令ヲ以テ定ムん點字へ之文字卜看做
院規則教會規則、管長教團就理者住職教會主管者、代務者及
x
連代（中略）八之各本令依ん規則、主管者、代務者及總代（中
市制町村制施行令第十一條
路）卜看欲ス
市制第二十五條第六項又八町村制第二十二條第六項八規定三依官
附則（昭和二十一年勅令第七十號）
人ガ投票ニ調スル記載三使用スルコトヲ得ル點字ハ別表ッ以テ之フ
第二項 神宮、本令施行八際現三地方長官 保管三係八神社明細簿
定别表省略）
記載セラレん神社及別格官衛社靖國神社へ之宗教法人令
點字依リ投票爲サントスル選舉人へ選舉長又へ投票分四長對
（以下單=法卜稱ス）依ん法人（以下宗教法人卜稱ス）下看做
ン其ノ旨ヲ申立ッペン此ノ場合二於テへ選舉長又へ投票分會長八投
第三項前項揚グル宗教法人へ令第三條ノ例準ツ其ノ規則作
票用紙點字投票ナル旨ノ印っ接印ンテ交付スペン
之主簪者ノ氏名及住所卜共本令施行ノ日リ六月內二地方
點字一依八投票ノ拒否=付チ八市制第二十五條八三又八町村制第二
長官二国出ズペン
十二條ノ三八例二依ル此ノ場合二於テへ封筒二點字投票十ル旨ノ印
第四項前項ノ規定二依ル屆出爲サザルトキ八當該宗教法人八同
ク接印ンテ交付スペン
項ノ期間滿了ノ時ニ於テ解散シタルモノト看做ス
前項ノ規定三依假三爲廿ンメタル投票八市制第二十七條ノ二第二
項及第三項又八町村制第二十四條八二第二項及第三項八規定適用
第六項本令施行際現大宮司、宮司、社司及府縣社以下神社職
付八市制第二十五條八三第二項及第四項又八町村制第二十二條
制第二條ノ神社ノ社掌（社掌二人以上置カレタん神社在リテへ
八三第二項及第四項八投票卜看做ス
4
上席社掌）ノ職在ん者（其ノ者ガ缺ケタルトキ又八事故アル卜
十へ本令施行ノ際現二之っ代理スべキ職在ん者）竝二氏子、總
代ん者（氏子總代及崇拜者總代フ置カザル宗教法人二在リテへ
氏子又へ崇拜者ノ中リ命令ノ定ムル所二依り選出セうレタん

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.83)
，
八行為ヲ爲サずんトキへ一年以上ノ有期役臨ス
第三欽神社、寺院又へ教會っ設立セントスん者へ神社、寺院又へ教
公務員又へ仲義人其職務上不正ノ行爲為ン又へ相當ノ行貸っ為
會ノ規則ッ作ルコトッ要ス
ずリンコト闘ン胸路う收受、要求若クへ約東シ又へ第三者之
規則へ左ノ事項ッ記載ン設立者之署名スペン
供與センメ其供與ッ要求若クへ約東ンタルトキ亦同レ
一目的名稱、財產管理他財務 關ス～事項主管者、代
公務員又へ仲裁人ン者其在職中請託受ケ職務上不正ノ行為
務者其ノ仙ノ親關關スル事項（以下略）
フ爲レ又へ相當ノ行爲ッ爲サザッンコトニ調レ賄路ッ牧受ッ又へ之
二所在地
ヲ要求若タへ約東ンルトキへ三年以下ノ熱役處ス
三省略
第百九十七餘八四
四氏子、崇拜者、禮徒、教徒又八信徒及其總代關八事項
犯人又へ情ッ知リタん第三者ノ收受ンル賄賂へ之ヲ沒牧ス其全部
（第三項省略）
又へ一部ッ沒牧スルコト能ハザルトキへ其價額ヲ追散ス
第八條宗教法人へ一人又へ數人ノ主管者ヲ置クペン
第百九十八條
主管者へ宗教法人ク主管ン之う代表ス
第百九十七餘乃至第百九十七條八三二規定又ル賄賂供與八又八其
主管者缺ケタルトキ、未成年ナルトキ又ハ久ンキュ亙リ職務ヲ行フ
申込若クへ約東爲レタん者へ三年以下ノ微役又へ五千圓以下罰
コト館へザルトキハ代務者ヲ置キ其ノ職務ヲ行ハレムペン
金二臨ス
第九條神社、寺院及教會二八氏子、崇拜者、擅徒、教徒及價徒總
代（以下單總代卜稱ス）三人以上ッ置夕ペン
四宗教法人令
練代八神社、寺院又へ教會ノ經營二關シ主管者扶夕
昭和二十年十二月二十八日勅令第七百十九號
第十一條神社、寺院又へ教會へ左二揚グル行爲ア爲サントスルトキ
改正昭和二十一年二月二日勅令第七十號
總代人同意得ルコト要ス當該神社、寺院又へ教會ガ教派宗派
第一條神遺教派佛教宗派及基督教其他宗教教國竝帥社（帥
又へ教團ッ屬スルモノナルトキハ尙所屬教派、宗派又へ教團ノ主管
官ッ含ム以下同ジ）寺院及教會（修道會等含ム以下同ッ）へ本令
者ノ承認ヲ受クルコトク要ス
依リ之ク法人ト僞スコトッ得
一不動産（中略）處分シ又八撥保=供スルコト
本令於宗教法人卜八前項ノ規定二依ん法人、教派、宗派、教國
二省略
神社、寺院及教會卜八各神道教派、佛教宗派及基督教其他宗教
第二項以下省略
致團竝ニ神社寺院及教會ニンテ宗教法人タルモノヲ謂フ
第十四條解散シタル宗教法人ノ勝全財産ノ處分へ規則ノ定ムル所
七一

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.81)
4O
二世帯員の棚が足りないときは別の紙を貼付して番き足すこと。
第二百三十五條投粟檢査し及と其敗計算スん者其投票儒造
三両続は町殿敵であらはし、畝未備は切捨てるとと。
又へ增減ン夕ル時へ六月以上三年以下ノ輕蔡綱=處ン四圓以上四十
第二號
圓以下ノ罰金っ附加ス
第二百三十六條調書造投票ノ結局報告入八者其數增減其
昭和二十一年農林省令第五十八號による報告
他詐欺ノ行爲八ル時八一年以上五年以下八輕蔡鋼處八五圓以上五
市、區
住所
北長官殿（超由
申告者名稱
十圓以下ノ罰金ヲ附加ス
府縣知事
町、村
代義者氏名
曰刑法
當該市町村
當該市町村
の區域内に
の區域外に
合計
ある農地
ある農地
第二十五章 濟職ノ罪
耕作の薬務に供してるる農
2
第百九十三條公務員其職報ヲ濫用シ人フンテ談務ナキ事ッ行へレメ
地面
又へ行フ可キ糧利妨書レタルトキへ六月以下ノ熱役又へ蔡鋼露
所有する農地面機
x
第百九十七條公務員又へ仲裁人其職務關賄賂收受ン又へ之
備考面積は町段畝であらはし、敵未滿は切拾てること。
要求若クへ約東シタルトキへ三年以下ノ熱役二臨ス請託フ受ケタル
場合於うへ五年以下ノ微役二ス
公務員又へ仲裁人タクントスル者其擬當スべキ職務關ン請託ヲ受
刑法施行令第二十五條依當分八內刑法施行前卜同一效力
アテ賄路ッ收受ン又へ之フ要求若タへ約束レタルトキへ公務員又へ
有ス）
仲裁人卜爲リタル場台二於テ三年以下ノ熱役二處ス
第四章第九節公還ノ投票偽造スん罪
第百九十七條八二
第二百三十三條公還ノ投票僞造ン又へ其數っ増滅シタル者へ一月
公務員又へ仲裁人其職務二關之請託受ケ第三者賄賂ヲ供與七
以上一年以下ノ輕蔡鋼處之二圓以上二十圓以下ノ罰金附加ス
レメ又へ其供興ヲ要求若クへ約東シタルトキへ三年以下ノ熱役ニ盧
第二百三十四條賄賂以テ投衆爲サンメ又へ賄路受ケテ投票
x
爲ンん者へ二月以上二年以下八輕禁綱二處八三圓以上三十圓以下
第百九十七條八三
罰金ヲ附加ス
公務員又八仲裁人前二條ノ罪犯ン因テ不正ノ行爲っ爲ン又へ相當

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.89)
岡居しなくなつた者が、農地を所有して居るときは、その者の所有
區又は區長にこれを適用する。
する貴地の面横を含める。
附則
動項の規定は、世帯主及び世勢員が、住所のある市町村の區域にお
この省令は、公布の日から、これを施行する。
いて所有する農地の面積（これらの者の戸主又は家族で、就學、疾病
别記様式
その他やむをえない事由でこれらの者と一時同居しなくなつた者が
第一號
當談市町村の區域において所有する農地の面積を含める。の合計が前
昭和二十一年體林省合第五十八號に上る報告
項の面積以上である場合にこれを準用する。
第二條昭和二十一年九月一日現在におい七、前條第一項に規定する面
北海遺區長官殿（經由
市、區
4)
世帶主
（申告者）氏名
住所
#
積以上の農地につき耕作の薬務を營み又は住所のある市町村の區城に
府縣知事
町、村
生年月日
おいて當該面積以上の農地を所有する法人は、同日現在で、同年十月
當該市町村當該市町村
の西城内に
の區城外に
合叶
十五日までに別記様式第二號によりその住所のある市町村の市町村長
ある發地
ある盤地
を經由して、地方長官に對し左に掲げる事項を申告しなければならな
その世帯で耕作の業務に供
22
30
しておる農地の面積
一名稱
世帶主及八世帶員が所有し
C
ておる農地の面積の合計
二所
（備考一參照）
三代表者の氏名
名
生年月日
世帶員の中昭和二十一年十
四所有し又は耕作の薬務に供してみる農地の面積
一月十五日において滿二十
第三條前二條の規定は、地方長官が特に指定した市町村には、これを
年以上の者の氏名及び生年
適用しない。
月日
第四條この規則の中、町村又は町村長に關する規定は、町村の事務の
全部又は役場事務を共同處理する町村組合のある地にあつては町村組
儒考
合又は組合管理者に、町村制を施行しない地にあつてはこれに準ずる
一戶主又は家族で就學、疾病その他やむをえない事由で一時同居
ものに、市又は市長に關する規定は、東京都の區のある區域、京都市
しなくなつた者が産地を所有してみるときは、その者の所有する
大阪市、横濱市、名古屋市及び神戸市にあつては地方長官の指定する
農地の面積を含めること。
六九

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.95)
六八
全部又は役場事務を共同處理する町村組合のある地にあっては町村組
合又は組合管理者に、町村制を施行しない地にあつてはこれに準する
八參照條文
ものに、市又は市長に闘する規定は、東京都の區のある區域、京都市
大阪市、横濱市、名古屋市及び神戶市にあつては地方長官の指定する
昭和二十一年農林省第五十八號
医又は區長にこれを適用する。
昭和二十一年十月三日農林省令第五十八號
附則
第三十三條この省令は、昭和二十一年十二月日から、これを施行す
農地調整法第十七條の規定により農地に關する報告を徴する件を、大
3。
のやうに定める。
第三十四條この省令の際現に開設中の土地で地方長官の指定したもの
第一條昭和二十一年九月一日において、北海道にあつては三段步、都
については、第十三條（第二十三條及び第二十九條において準用する
府縣にあつては一段歩以上の農地につき耕作の業務を營み又は住所の
場合を含むに規定する話問は、これを要しない。
ある市町村の區域（地方長官が市町村の區城を二以上の地域に分けた
第三十五條農地調彌法施行規則の一部を次のやうに改正する。
場合はその地域。以下同じ。）において當該面積以上の農地を所有す
第四條第一項第二號中「自作盤創設特別措置法第四十一條第一項
る者（法人を除く。）の世帶主耕作の業務を營み又は農地を所有する
の下に「又八自作農創設特別措置法施行令第二十七條第一項、第三十
者が世帶主である場合は、その者は、同日現在で、同年十月十五日
二條第一項若八第三十四條第一項一を加え第六條第一項及び第八
までに別記様式第一號により、住所のある市町村の市町村長を經由し
條中「又八第四十一條第一項」とあるのを「若八第四十一條第一項又
て地方長官に對し左に掲げる事項を申告しなければならない。
は自作農創設特別指置法施行令第三十一條第一項若八第三十四條第一
一世帶主の氏名住所及び生年月日
項」に改める。
二世機員（世帶主の同居の戶主又は家族をいふ。以下同じ）で昭和
二十一年十一月十五日において滿二十年以上の者の氏名及び生年月
日
三その世帶において耕作の業務に供してある農地の面積
四世郷主及び世帶員の所有してみる農地の面積の合計（世帶主又は
世帶員が耕作の業務を營む場合において、耕作の業務を營む者の戶
主又は家族で、就學、疾病その他やむをえない事由でその者と一時

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.94)
むこの規定による牧去に係る補償についてはう同法第三十三條第一項
聖により買牧したものである場合にあつては市町村農地委員會に提出
（同法第三十七條第二項において準用する場合を含む）の規定による
しなければならない。
收去に保る物件の表示、收去の時期及び場所並びに前條第一項第一
第二十八條自作農創設特別指置法第四十一條の規定により同法第三十
號、第四號及び第五號に損ける事項」と讀み替えるものとする。
條第一項第一號乃至第三號に規定する土地の賢渡を受けた者又はその
第二十七條自作農創設特別指置法第四十一條第二項（同法施行令第三
相練人が當該土地に就いての自作（當談土地の開發を含む）をやめよ
十二條第二項において準用する場合を含む。、同令第二十七條第二項
うとする場合には、第八條及び第九條の規定を準用する。此の場合に
（第三十五條第二項において準用する場合を含む。）及び同令第三十四
おいて、これらの規定中（市町村農地委員會）とあるのは、當談土地
條第二項において準用する同法第十七條の規定により申込をしようと
が同法第三十八條に規定する買收に係るものである場合を除いて「都
する者は、左に揚げる事項を記載した申込書を提出しなければならな
道府縣盘地委員會」と讃み替えるものとする。
9
30
第二十九條都道府縣農地委員會が自作農創設特別指置法施行令第三十
一申込者の氏名又は名稱、住所及び職業（法人にあつては、薬務の
三條第一項の決定をする場合には、第十三條の規定を準用する。
種類。
第三十條自作農創設特別指置法第四十二條の規定による許可を受けよ
二申込の目的となる土地、利、立木又は工作物の表示
うとする者は、左に揚げる事項を記戦した申請書を地方長官に提出し
三希望價格及び對價の支拂の方法
なければならない。
四第一銃に掲けるものを必要とする事由
一申人の氏名又は名稱及び住所
五食借、貸付又は使用收益の場合にあつては、その期間
二當該土地：農藥用施設、工作物又は立木の表示
六その他必要な事項
三當談行爲をする必要のある事由
前項の申込書は、當該土地、權利、立木又は工作物が自作農創設特
四當該行為の程度又は内容
別指置法第三十七條の規定により買收し、若しくは貸貸したものであ
五：當該行爲の時期
る場合又は同法施行令第三十五條第一項の規定による貸付若しくは使
六その他る考となるべき事項
用收益に係るものである場合にあつては地方長官に、同法第三十一條
第三十一條この省令中市町村農地委員會に關する規定は、地區農地委
の規定による未墾地買收計確により買收し、若しくは使用したもの又
員會の設けられてある市町村の地區にあつては、地區農地委員會にこ
は同法施行令第三十五條第一項の決定に係るものである場合にあつて
れを適用する。
は都道府縣農地委員會に、同法第三十八條の規定による未墾地買收計
第三十二條この省令中町村又は町村長に關する規定は、町村の事務の
六七

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.95)
六六
て準用する同法第三十一條第五項の規定により同法第三十七條第一項
くは同法第三十四條（同法第三十七條第二項において準用する場合
に親定する土地（當誘土地の上にある立木を含む。に係る未懇地買收
を含む。において準用する同法第十二條第一項の規定により消滅し
計豊につき認可をするには、豫め農林大臣の承認を受けなければなら
た權利又は同法第三十五條（同法第三十七條第二項において準用す
ない。
る場合を含むの規定により行使を停止された権利の表示
第二十二條自作盤創設特別措置法第三十八條第一項の面積は、北海道
三買收の場合にあつては、買收の時期、使用の場合にあつては使用
にあつては四十町歩、都府縣にあつては十町歩とする。
の時期、期間及び補償のお礎となつた期間
第二十三條自作農創設特別指置法第三十八條第一項に規定する未墾地
四補の事由
買收計豊において、買收すべき土地として定められた土地の全部又は
五補償金額
一部がその開發につき同法施行令第二十九條に規定する制限又は禁止
六その他參考となるべき事項
の規定の適用のあるときは、都道府縣島地委員會が當該未墾地買收計
前項の申請書には、損失補償金額算出明細書を添附しなければなら
豊につき同法第三十八條第二項において準用する同法第八條の規定に
ない。
よる承認をする場合には、第十三條の規定を準用する。
第二十六條市町村農地委貞會又は都道府縣農地委自會が自作農創設特
第二十四條自作農創設特別措置法第三十八條第二項において準用する
別指置法第二十二條第五項（同法第三十九條第三項において準用する
同法第三十二條第一項の場合には、第十七條第一項乃至第三項の規定
場合を含むの規定により補供金額の通知をするには左に揚ける事
を準用する。
項を記戦した通知書を補償を受けるべき者に交付して、これをしなけ
第二十五條市町村農地委員會又は都道府縣委貞會が自作農創設特別指
ればならない。
置法第二十二條第四項（同法第三十九條第三項において準用する場合
一前條第一項第一號乃至第五號に揚ける事項
を含むこの規定により認可ゃ受けようとするときは、左の事項を記載
二補似金額の支拂の方法及び時期
した申請書を地方長官に提出しなければならない。
三その他必要な事項
一補側を受けるべき者の氏名又は名稱及び住所
地方長官が自作農創設特別措置法第三十九條第三項において準用す
二同法第二十二條第一項の規定により消滅し六權利、同法第三十二
る同法第二十二條第五項の規定により補貸金額の通知をする場合に
條第一項（同法第三十七條第二項及び第三十八條第二項において準
は、前項の規定を準用する。この場合において「前條第一項第一銃乃
用する場合を含むの規定による行爲に係る土地、同法第三十三條
至第五號に揚げる事項」とあるのは、同法第三十三條第一項（同法第
第四項（同法第三十七條第二項において準用する場合を含む）若し
三十三條第一項（同法第三十七條第二項において準用する場合を含

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.96)
2.
七當談土地の交通の良否及び利用狀況
る場合には、前三項の規定を準用する。
八その他参考となるべき事項
第十八條自作農創設特別指置法第三十三條第一項（同法第三十七條第
市町村農地委負會が自作盤創設特別指置法施行令第二十八條におい
二項においと準用する場合を含むの規定による收去は、地方長官
て準用する同令第二十五條第一項但書の規定により認可を受けようと
が、左に掲げる事項を記載した收去令書を當該物件の所有者及び占有
する場合には、前項の規定を準用する。
者に交付して、これを行はせるものとする。
第十五條自作農創設特別指置法第三十一條第三項（同法第三十七條第
一當該物件の所有者又は占有者の氏名又は名稱及び住所
二項及び第三十八條第二項において準用する場合を含むにおいて準
二當該物件の所在種類及び數量
用する同法第六條第三項に規定する地方長官の認可を受けるには、第
三.收去の期限
一條及び第二條の規定み準用する。
四その他必要な事項
第十六條自作農創設特別指置法第三十一條第五項（同法第三十七條第
第十九條自作農創設特別指證法第三十三條第二項同法第三十七條第
二項において準用する場合を含む及び同法第三十八條第二項におい
二項において準用する場合を含む。の規定により買收を請求しようと
て準用する同法第七條に規定する異議の申立又は訴願については、第
する者は、前條の令書の交付があつた後一箇月以内收去の期限が一
三條の規定を準用する。
箇月以内であるときは、その期限以内に、當談物件を收去すること
第十七條都道府縣農地委員會が自作盤創設特別指置法第三十二條第一
に因つて當該物件を從來用いた目的に供することができない事由を記
項（同法第三十七條第二項において準用する場合を含むに規定する
戦した請求書を地方長官に提出しなければならない。
行為をするには豫めその土地の占有者にこれを通知しなければならな
第二十條自作農創設特別指置法第三十六條第一項（同法第三十七條第
い。但し、通知をすることができない場合その他特別の事情がある場
二項において準用する場合を含むの規定により買收を請求しようと
合においとは、公告を以てこれに代えることができる。
する者は、横利、土地、立木若しくは工作物につき同法第三十四條に
前項の通知又は公告には、立人の目的、場所並びに時期及び期間を
おいて準用する同法第九條第一項の令書の交付又は公告があつた後一
示さなければならない。
節月以内に請求書を地方長官に提出しなければならない。
第一項但書の公告は、立ち人るべき土地の所在地の市役所又は町村
極利、土地、立木又は工作物を從來用いた目的に供することが著し
役場の掲示場に三日以上の間揚示してこれをしなければならない。
く困難となる事由に因り前項の請求をする場合においては、前項の請
自作農創設特別指證法第三十二條第二項（同法第三十七條第二項に
求書にその事由を記載しなければならない。
おいて準用する場合を含むの規定により同係第一項の規定を準用す
第二十一條地方長官が自作農創設特別措置法第三十七條第二項におい
●
六五

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.95)
六四
は、左の事項を當談農地のある市町村に設置された市町村島地委員會
するには左に揚げる申入書を自作をやめようとする者に交付しなけれ
ばならない。
を經由して地方長官に届出なければならない。
一買い取るべき農地の所有者の氏名及び住所
一屈出者の氏名又は名稱及び住所
二當該地の所在地番、地目及び面棋
二當該盤地の所在地、地番、地目及び面積
三自作をやめようとする事由（一時自作をやめようとする場合はそ
三當談盤地の對價及びその支拂方法
の期間）
四買い取の時期
四その他必要な事項
第十三條都道時縣農地委員會が自作農創設特別措置法第三十一條第一
第十條市町村農地委員會は自作島創設特別指置法第十六條の規定によ
項（同法第三十七條第二項において準用する場合を含むに規定する
る賢渡を受けた者又はその相護人が當該農地についての自作をやめよ
未墾地買收計畫を定めるには、當該未墾地買收計盤について都道府縣
うとするものと認めたときは、前條各號に準じその旨を地方長官に報
開拓委員會に諸問しなければならない。但し、農林大臣が中央開拓委
告しなければならない。
員會に、又は地方長官が都道府縣開拓委員會に諸問して農地の開發に
又は開發後における土地の利用に供することを適當と認めた土地、權
第十一條自作島創設特別措置法第二十九條の規定により買い受の申込
利、立木又は建物その他の工作物につき都道府縣農地委員會が未墾地
をするには買い受けようとする農薬施設土地又は健物のある市町村
農地委員會に對して左に揚げる事項を記載した申込書を提出しなけれ
買收計輩を定める湯合にはこの限りでない。
ばならない。
第十四條都道府縣農地委員會が自作農創設特別措置法施行令第二十五
一申込者の氏名及び住所
條第一項但書の規定により認可を受けようとするときは、左の事項を
二買い受けようとする懸案用施設についてはその所在、種類及び極
記載した申請書を地方長官に提出しなければならない。
造の概要、土地についてはその所在、地番、地目、面積、地租法に
一當該土地の所在、地番地日及び面積
よる貨貸價格、建物についてはその所在、建坪敗、延坪數及び地租
二認可を受けようとする事由
，
法による貸貸價格
三當該土地の貸貸價格
三買い受けようとする希留價格及び對價の支拂方法
四近傍類似の豊地の時價
四その他必要な事項
五近傍類地の時價
第十二條地方長官が自作農創設特別措置法施行令第二十二條（同令第
六當談土地の上に生立する竹木がある場合においては、當談竹木の
時價
三十一條において準用する場合を含むの規定により買い取の申人を

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.94)
は都適府縣農地委員會は運滞なく裁決書の贈本を訴願人に對して送付
て買收すべき旨の申請をするには左に掲げる事項を記戦した申勝書を
しなければならない。
同項各號に掲げる島業用施設、土地又は建物のある市町村の市町村農
第四條自作義創設特別措置法第十三條第一項（同法第三十四條にお
地委員會に提出しなければならない。
て準用する場合を含む但書の規定による對價の供託を請求しようと
一申請者の氏名又は名稱及び住所
する者は左の事項を記戦した請求書を農林大臣に提出しなければなら
二買收すべき農業用施設についてはその所在、種類及び構造の概要
ない。
土地については、その所在、地番、地目、面積及び地租法による貨
一請求者の氏名、又は名稱及び住所
貸價格、建物についてはその所在、建坪数、延坪數及び地租法によ
二當該盤地につき光取特権、質權乂は拱當機を設定した者又はその
る貸貸價格
承繼人の氏名若しくは名稱及び住所
三その他必要な事項
三當該盤地の所在、地番地目及び面積
第七條自作農創設特別措置法第十七條の規定により農地の買受の申込
四當該盤地の上にある撫保権の種類、それによつて擔保せられる債
をするには地方長官の指定する期日までに左に損ける事項を記載した
機の額及び内容
申込書を當該農地のある市町村に設置された市町村農地委員會に提出
五供託を請求しようとする額
しなければならない。
六その他必要な事項
一申込者の氏名又は名稱及び住所
第五條農地の所有者の同居の戶主若しくは家族又は農地の所有者の戸
二買い受けるべき農地の所在、地番、地目及び面積
主若しくは家族で自作盤創設特別措置法施行令第一條に規定する特別
三買い受ける場合の希望價格及び對價の支拂の方法
の事由に因つてその者と同居しなくなつた者が所有する農地について
四その他必要な事項
も目作選創設特別措置法第三條の規定による買收のあつたときは同法
第八條自作農創設特別措置法第二十三條第五項の規定により都道府縣
第十三條第三項の規定の適用については、これらの者の所有する農地
農地委員會が裁定をしたとき又は自作農創設符別措置法第二十五條第
は、これを一人の者の所有する農地とみなす。
五項の規定により市町村農地委員會が裁定をしたときは都道府縣農地
前項の場合においては自作幾創設特別指置法第十三條第三項の規定
員會又は市町村農地委員會は運滯なく裁定雷の勝本を申立人に對し
による報償金は、前項に掲げた者に對して同法第十三條第一項の規定
て送付しなければならない。
によりその者に支拂ふべき對側の割合に願じてこれを交付する。
第九條自作農創設特別措置法第十六條の規定による農地の賣渡を受け
第六條自作盤創設特別措置法第十五條第一項の規定により政府におい
た者又はその相機人が當談農地についての自作をやめようとするとき
六三

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.94)
K1
市町村義地委員會の會長は前項の審議の概要を議事録に記載しなけ
ればならない。
七自作農創設特別措置法施行規則案
第四十九條昭和二十年十一月二十三日現在において小作地に就き耕作
の薬務を營んでみた者は、市町村農地委員會に對して當談小作地に就
第一條自作農創設特別指置法第六條第三項本文の規定により認可を受
き自作農創設特別指置法附則第二項の規定により農地買收計書を定め
けようとする市町村農地委員會は左に掲げる事項を記載した申請書を
るべきことを申入れることができる。
地方長官に提出しなければならない。
第五十條市町村農地委員會が前條の規定による申入があつた後三箇月
一當該農地の所在地街地目及面積
を經過しても當談申出に係る農地に就き同項に規定する農地買收計畫
二當該農地の水利、交通の良否、利用狀況及び普通收覆高並びに小
を定めないときは、當談申入をした者は、その時期經過後十日以内に、
作地である場合においては小作料の額及び減免條件
市町村農地委員會に對して異議の申立をすることができる。
三當談盤地が氷小作地である場合においては永小作權の價格
前項の場合には、自作農創設特別措置法第七條第二項乃至第四項の
四當該農地につき小作擢貸買の慣習ある場合においてはその價格
規定を準用する。この場合において、同條第二項中「前條第五項の縱
五當該農地につき定めようとする價格
覚期間終了後」とあるのは一前項の規定による申立のあつた日から」
六その他參考となるべき事項
と讀み替えるものとする。
第二條自作農創設特別指置法第六條第三項但書の規定により認可を受
けようとする市町村機地委員會は左に掲ける事項を記載した申請書を
地方長官に提出しなければならない。
一前條第一號乃至第六號に揭げる事項
二認可を受けようとする事田
三當該農地の地租法による貸貸價格並びに減租年期がある場合にお
いてはその年期の始期反び終期
第三條自作提創設特別措蹤法第七條第三項の規定により市町村農地委
員會が異験の申立に掛する決定をしたときは遅滞なく決定書の勝本を
申立人に對して送付しなければならない。
同郎第四項の規定により都道府縣選地委員會が訴願を裁決したとき

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.94)
七前各號に掲げるものの外農林大臣の指定するもの
大阪市、横濱市、名古屋市及び神戶市にあつては地方長官の指定する
第三十九條自作農創設特別指置法及び同法に基く命令による公告は
區又は區長にこれを適用する。
附則
中央農地委員會のする場合にあつては省令の公布と同一の方法によ
り、地方長官又は都道府縣農地委員會のずる場合にあつては、東京都
第四十四條この勅令は、昭和二十一年十二月日から、これを施行
令、北海道運令又は府縣令の公布と同一の方法により、市町村農地委
する。
員會のする場合にあっては、市役所又は町村役場の掲示場に掲示して、
第四十五條漁薬登鉄合の一部を夫のように改正する。
これをしなければならない。
第十六條第五號の次に左の一號を加える。
第四十條自作農創設特別指置法中主務大臣とあるのは、農林大臣とす
六自作農創設特別措置法三依買收シ夕ル漁業權移轉若 消滅
る。
又へ當該漁葉榴目的卜スル榴利若八人漁極ノ消滅
第四十一條農林大臣は自作農創設上特に必要があると認めるときは
第四十六條農地調整法施行令の一部を次のように改正する。
この勅令により都道府縣農地委員會の離限に屬させた事項を地方長官
第二條及び第七條中「又八第四十一條第一項一を一若八第四十一條
又は中央農地委員會に處理させることができる。
第一項又八自作農創設特別指置法施行令第二十二條第一項第三十二
前項の場合には、自作農創設特別措置法第四十七條第四項の規定を
條第一項若八第三十四條第一項一に改め第十條中一同法第十六條若
準用する。
八第三十條第一項第二號」の下に「又八自作選創設特別指置法施行令
第四十二條この勅令中市町村農地委員會に關する規定は、地區農地委
第三十三條第一項第三號若八第四號一を加える。
員會の設けられてみる市町村の地區にあつては、地區農地委員會にこ
第四十七條開拓委員會官制の一部を次のように改正する。
れを適用する。この場合において、第二條中「當該隣接市町村に設け
第一條第三項中「農林大臣」の下に「又八中央農地委員會」を一地
られた市町村農地委員會一とあるのは一當該隣接市町村に設けられた
方長官」の下に「又八都道府縣農地委員會」を加える。
市町村農地委員會又は當該地區に隣接する地區に設けられた地區為
第四十八條農地でこれに闘する所有極、貸借棚その他の權利を有する
地委員會」と讃み替えるものとする。
者が昭和二十年十一月二十三日現在と自作農創設特別指置法第六條の
第四十三條この勅令中町村又は町村長に關する規定は、町村の事務の
規定による農地買收計鑑を定める時期とにおいて異るものについて
全部又は役場事務を共同處理する町村組合のある地にあつては町村組
は、市町村農地委員會は同法附則第二項の規定により昭和二十年十一
合又は組合管理者に、町村制を施行しない地にあつてはこれに準ずる
月二十三日現在の事賀に基いて農地買收計鑑を定めることの可否につ
ものに、市又は市長に闘する規定は、東京都の區のある區城、京都市
き審議しなければならない。
K.1

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.94)
1
KO
一晨地の開發に供することを相當とする土地
し、若しくは使用した土地、機利、立木若しくは工作物又は政府の所
5
二農地の開發に供する土地の上にある立木又は建物その他の工作物
有に屬する土地物件で第三十三條第一項の決定のあつたもの（同項第
で當該土地の開發に供することを相當とするもの
四號に談當するものを除くを同法第四十一條第一項に規定する者に
三開發後における土地の利用に供することを相當とする士地、立木
無償で貸付をし、又は使用收益をさせることかできる。
又は建物その他の工作物
前項の場合には、第二十七條第一項及び第二項の規定を準用する。
四自作農創設特別指置法第三十條の規定により買收した土地に關し
第三十六條自作農創設特別指置法第三條第十五條第三十條第一項
その買收の當時所有權、負借櫃、使用貸借による棚利、永小作權
第三十三條第二項、第三十六條若しくは第三十七條の規定による買收
地上離又は入會棚を有する者に對し當該土地に代るべき土地として
第二十三條の規定による交換又は第二十八條第一項（同法第四十一條
変り渡し、又は質貸することを相當とする土地（當談土地の上にあ
第三項において準用する場合を含むこの規定による買取によつて政府
る立木を含む。
が取得した土地、極利又は立木、工作物その他の物件で國有財産たる
前項の場合には、第十三條第二項乃至第四項及び第十四條の規定を
ものは、これを雑種財産とし、林大臣が、これを管理する。
準用するこの場合において、第十三條第二項及び第三項中「都道府
第三十七條第十二條第一項又は第三十三條第一項の決定のあつた國有
縣農地委員會」とあるのは「地方長官」と讀み替えるものとする。
財産及び前條に規定する國有財産帳に關し必要な事項及び連帳に記
第三十四條政府は、その所有に屬する土地物件で前條第一項の決定の
戦すべき事項は、農林省が、大歳大臣と協議してこれを定める。
あつたもの同項第一號及び第四號に該當する士地を除く。を自作農
前項に規定する國有財産については、國有財産法施行令第三十三條
創設特別措置法第四十一條第一項に規定する者に賣り渡し、又は貸貸
の規定を適用しない。
することができる。
第三十八條自作農創設特別措置法第四十六條の命令で定めるものは左
前項の規定による費渡又は貸貸については、自作漫創設特別措置法
に揚げるものとする。
第十七條第十八條第一項乃至第三項第五項第二十條第二十一條
一農地開發營國
及び第二十六條の規定を準用する。この場合において第十七條及び第
二都道府縣
十八條第一項並びに同條第五項において準用する第八條中一市町村農
三都道府縣農業會
地委員會」とあるのは一都道府縣農地委員會」と「都道府縣農地委員
四市町村農藥會
會の承説」とあるのは「地方長官の認可」と讀み替えるものとする。
五農事實行組合
第三十五條政府は、自作農創設特別措置法第三十條の規定により買收
六農業者の組織する團體で地方長官の指定するもの
7.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.95)
法によるものとする。
規定する農地の買收の當時當該農地を所有してみた者又はその相練
第二十八條市町村農地委員會が自作農創設特別指置法第三十八條第二
人
項において準用する同法第三十一條第二項の規定により農地以外の土
三農地開發營國
地、機利、立木、電物その他の工作物の對價を定める場合には、第二
四都道府縣
十五條の規定を準用する。
五市町村（市町村組合を含む）
第二十九條自作農創設特別指置法第四十條の他の法令中命令で定める
六都道府縣農業會
制限又は禁止の規定は、左に揚げるものとする。
七市町村農業會
一河川法第十九條
八農事實行組合
二河川附近地制限令第四條
九前各號に掲げる者の外、農林大臣が自作農を創設するため自作摩
三河川豫定地制限令第三條、第四條及び第九條
創設特別指置法第四十一條第一項の規定による費渡又は貫貸をする
四國立公園法第八條第二項
ことを相當と認める者
五國立公園法施行令第十六條第一項
第三十一條自作農創設特別指置法第四十一條第一項の規定による同法
六砂防法第四條（同法第三條において準用する場合を含む）
第三十條第一項第一號乃至第三號に規定する土地の寶渡を受けた者又
七史蹟名勝天然紀念物保存法第三條及び第四條
はその相織人が、當該土地に就いての自作（當該土地の開發を含む）
八史蹟名勝天然紀念物保存法施行令第二條
をやぬようとする場合には、第二十二條の規定を準用する。
九森林法第二十六條及び第三十二條
第三十二條政府は自作農創設特別指置法第四十一條第三項において
十牧野法第一條八
準用する同法第二十八條の規定により土地を買い取つたときは、運浦
十一 牧野法施行令第一條
なく同法第四十一條第一項に規定する者に當談土地を喪り渡さなけれ
十二地方長官が東京都官制第三條北海道應官制第四條又は地方官
ばならない。
二
官制第六條に基いて發する命令中開發に關する制限又は禁止の規定
前項の規定による賣渡についでは、自作盤創設特別指置法第二十七
第三十條自作農創設特別措置法第四十一條第一項の命令で定める者
條及び第四十一條第二項の規定を準用する。
は左に揚げる者とする。
第三十三條政府の所有に屬する土地物件で都道府縣農地委員會が左の
一自作農として盤楽に精進し得る見込のある者の組織する團體
各號の一に該當するものとして定めたものは、これを雑種持財産とし、
二自作農創設特別措置法第三十條第一項の規定による同項第三號に
農林大臣が、これを管理する。
●
五九

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.95)
五八
おける當談最地の所有者その他の者で自作場として農楽に精進する見
と當談竹木の優額との合計額を超えてはならない。但し、特別の事情
込のあるものに當該農地を変り渡さなければならない。
に因つて都道府縣盤地委員會が地方長官の認可を受けたときは、この
筋項の規定による変渡については自作農創設特別措置法第十條、第
限りでない。
十六條第二項、第十七條第十八條第一項乃至第三項第五項第二
前項の竹木の價額は、時價を酌してこれを定める。
十條及び第二十一條の規定を準用する。この場合において第十七條中
都道府縣農地委員會が自作農創設特別指置法第三十一條第二項の規
「市町村農地委員會」とあるのは「地方長官」と護み替えるものとす
定により拙利、立木、建物その他の工作物の對價を定めるには、中央
農地委員會において定める基準によらなければならない。
第二十四條自作農創設特別指置法第十五條の規定により政府が買收し
第二十六條地方長官が自作晨創設特別指置法第三十六條第二項（同法
た舞業用施設、土地又は建物を買い受けることのできる者は左の各號
第三十七條第二項において準用する場合を含むの規定により同條第
に定める者とする。
一項に規定する買收をする農地以外の土地、權利、立木又は工作物の
一農業用施設については負借權又は使用貸借による機利がある場合
對價を定める場合には、前條の規定を準用する。この場合において、
においては當該権利を有する者で同法第十六條の規定により農地の
同條第一項但書中「都道府縣農地委員會が地方長官の認可を受けたと
資渡を受けたもの、これらの権判がない場合においては同條の規定
きは」とあるのは「地方長官が別段の額を定めたときは」と護み替え
により農地の資渡を受けた者で當該農地の利用上當該農薬用施設を
るものとする。
必要とするものとするもの。
第二十七條政府が自作農創設特別措置法第三十七條の規定により買收
二土地又は建物については貸借權、使用貸借による權利永小作權又
し、若しくは使用した土地（當談土地の上にある立木を含む。以下本
は地上権を有する者で同法第十六條の規定により拠地の資渡を受け
條において同じ又は第三十三條第一項の決定のあつた同項第四號に
たもの。
規定する土地の賣渡又は貸貸は、地方長官が賣渡又は貧貸の相手方に
第二十五條自作農創設特別指置法第三十一條第二項（同法第三十七條
對し通知書を交付して、これをするものとする。
第二項において準用する場合を含む。の規定により定める農地以外の
前項の場合には、自作農創設特別指置法第十七條、第二十條第二項
土地の對價は、當該土地の上に生立する竹木のない場合にあつては當
及び第二十一條の規定を準用する。
談土地の近傍類似の農地の時價に中央農地委員會の定める率を乗じて
第一項に規定する資渡のあつた土地の對價の支拂は、命令で定める
得た額、當該土地の上に生立する竹木のある場合にあつては當談土地
均等年賦支拂の方法によるものとする。但し、當談土地を買い受けた
の近傍類似の農地の時價に中央農地委員會の定める率を乗じて得た額
者の申出のあるときは、その對價の全部又は一部につき一時支拂の方

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.93)
機、貸借機、使用貸借による権利又は永小作権を取得してるる者を
に就いての耕作の薬務をやめようとして同法第十七條の規定による買
～。
受の申込をしないときは、當該農地は左に掲げる願序により左に揚げ
五自作奏創設特別指聖法第三條第五項第一號、第三號若しくは第五
る者にこれを変り渡す。
號の規定により買牧した島地（前銃に規定する農地を除く）又は同
一自作農創設特別措置法第三條の規定により買收した農地に就き同
項第六號の規定により買收した農地で第一號若しくは第三號に規定
法第十八條の規定による農地賣渡計畫を定める時期において耕作の
薬務を營む小作農
する小作農のないものについては耕作の薬務を營む者でその薬務を
營む農地の面積が當該業務に従事する家族の勞働力に比べて著しく
二自作農創設特別指置法第三條の規定により買收した農地に就き耕
不足してあるもの及び買收の時期において當該農地に就いての耕作
作の業務を營む小作農が耕作の薬務をやめた場合においては、買收
の薬務に従事するため常時願傭されてみる者の中から市町村農地委
の時期において當該農地を所有してみた者で市町村農地委員會がそ
員會において當該島地を寶り渡すべき相手方と定めたもの
の農地に就き自作することを相當と認めたもの。
三市町村農地委員會において自作農として農業に精進する見込のあ
前項第一號の規定の適用については自作農創設特別措置法第二十
る者と認める者
三條の規定による交換に因つて政府の取得した農地に就き交換の際耕
作の業務を營む小作農又は同法第二十五條の規定による交換に因つて
第二十條自作農創設待別措置法第十六條第二項の命令で定める團造
政府の喪り渡すべき農地に就き食借權若しくは永小作權を取得した者
は、市町村及び農事實行組合、養竈實行組合その他耕作者の組識する
はこれを同法第三條の規定による買收の時において當該農地に就き
團造で地方長官の指定するものとする。
耕作の粟務を營む小作農とみなす。
第二十一條自作農創設特別措置法第十八條の規定に上る農地賣渡計盤
を定める場合には、同法第六條第四項の規定を準用する。
第十八條自作農創設特別指置法第十六條第一項の規定により政府が喪
り渡す場合において當談農地の費渡を受ける者の營む耕作の業務が適
第二十二條自作農創設特別措置法第十六條の規定による農地の寶渡を
正でないときは第十四條第一項の制限を超える面積に相當する部分の
受けた者又はその相線人が當該農地に就いて自作をやめようとすると
きは地方長官は疾病就學選學による公務就任等のやむを得ない事由に
農地は市町村島地委員會において自作農として農薬に精進する見込の
ある者と認めた者にこれを喪渡す。
因りその者が一時自作をやめる場合を除いてその者に對して同法第二
前項の場合においては第五條の規定を準用する。
十八條第一項の申入をしなければならない。
第十九條自作農創設特別指置法第十六條第一項の規定により賢り渡す
第二十三條政府は、自作舞創設特別措置法第二十八條の規定により農
農地に就き前様に規定する相手方のないとき又はその者が當該農地
地を買い取つたときは、運滞なく同法第三條の規定による買收當時に
五七

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.95)
五六
あるときは、その用途文は目的の廢止があるものとし、當談地が農
として第一項の制限を超える面積の農地を定めたときは、政府は、同
項の規定を適用しない。
林大臣の管理に属しないものであるときは、農林大臣中管理に移るも
のとする。
市町村農地委員會が自作農創設特別措置法第十八條の規定による農
前項の規定による用途若くは目的の廢止又は管理の移轉があつたと
地賣渡計豊において変り渡すべき農地として第一項の制限を超える面
きは農林大臣は邇滞なくその旨を大蔵大臣に通知しなければならな
積の農地を定めたときは、當該機地資渡計豊にその理田を記載しなけ
30
ればならない。
第十五條自作農創設特別指置法第十六條第一項の政府の所有に屬する
第十七條自作農創設特別措置法第十六條第一項の規定による資渡の相
農地で命令で定めるものは、政府の所有に屬する農地で第十三條第一
手方は、左の各號に定めるものとする。
項の決定のあつた農地とする。
一自作邊創設特別指置法第三條第一項又は同條第五項第四號若しく
第十六條自作農創設特別措置法第十六條第一項の規定により迎り渡す
は第六號の規定により買收した農地については買收の時期（市町村
農地の面積は、同居の戶主及び家族並に第一條に規定する特別の事由
農地委員會が同法附則第二項の規定により農地買收計畫を定めた場
に因り同居しなくなつた戸主及び家族を通じて、同法第三條第一項第
合にあつては昭和二十年十一月二十三日現在。以下第二號において
三號に規定する當該都道府縣別の面積（同條第三項の規定により當該
同じ）において當該農地に就き耕作の薬務を營む小作農
都道府縣別の面積に代るべき面積の定められた區域にあつて當談區域
二自作農創設特別指置法第三條第五項第二號の規定により買收した
別の面積）を超えないものとする。
農地については買牧の時期において當該農地に就き請負その他の契
前項の規定の適用については、自作農創設特別指置法第十六條第一
約に基き耕作の菜務を營む者
項の規定による費渡を受けよりとする者の所有する農地の面積は同項
三第十三條に規定する農地については自作農創設特別措置法第十八
の規定により政府の変り渡す農地の面積とみなす。
條の規定による農地賣渡計盤を定める時期において當該農地に就き
前項の規定の適用については、同項の者の同居の戸主若しくは家族
耕作の業務を營む小作農
又はその者の戸主若しくは家族で第一條に規定する特別の事由に因り
四自作農創設特別指置法第三條第五項第三號の規定により買收た
その者と同居しなくなつた者が所有する農地は、その者が所有する長
農地で、法人その他の團體が昭和十六年十二月八日以後において法
地とみなす。
人其の他の團體が個人から買受けたものについては、その買受の時
特別な事由がある場合において市町村農地委員會が自作農創設特別
期において當該農地について耕作の業務を營む小作農又は自作農
指置法第十八條の規定による農地齊渡計豊において賢り渡すべき農地
當該法人その他の圓體の買受けた農地に代るべき農地につき所有

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.94)
第五條一、自作盤については自家勞力によつてその農地につき有効な
るものとし遅くとも昭和二十三年十月三十一日までにこれを完了しな
耕作をすることができる場合にはその農地の所有機の一部を他に譲
ければならない。
渡することになりその生産の減少を來すことが明らかな場合
第十條市町村農地委員會が自作農創設特別指置法第六條第三項の規
二、法人その他の團體についてはその農地の所有機の一部を他に譲渡
定により地租法による貸貸價格のない農地の對側を定め、又は同項但
ずることによりその生産の減少を來すことが明かな場合、又は耕作
掛の規定により農地の對價を定めるには、當該農地の近傍類似の農地
の薬務が法人その他團體の主たる薬務の運營に極めて必要である場
の時側を超えないようにしなければならない。
合
第十一條地方長官は、自作農創設特別措置法第六條第三項の規定によ
六條自作農創設特別指置法第五條第二號の命令で定める團體は、部
る認可をしようとするときは、都道府縣農地委員會の意見を聴かなけ
落、産業組合、裘輝實行組合、その他耕作者の組織する團體で地方長
ればならない。
官の指定するものとする。
第十二條自作農創設特別指置法第十五條第三項の規定により定める探
第七條自作最創設特別措置法第五條第六號の命令で定める事由は、左
草地の對價は、當該採草地の近傍類地の農地の時價に中央農地委員會
に揚げるものとする。
の定める率を乗じて得た額を超えてはならない。
一就學
市町村農地委員會が自作農創設特別措置法第十五條第一項の規定に
二召集
より買收する農薬用施設、宅地又は建物の對價を定めるには中央農
三選舉による公務就任その他の事由で市町村農地委自會が、自ら耕
地委員會に於て定める基準によらなければならない。
作の薬務を登まないことをやむをえなくさせた事由と認め、都道府
第十三條政府の所有に屬する農地で市町村農地委員會が自作農創設の
縣震地委員會の承認を得たもの
目的に供することを適當と定めたものはこれを雑種財産とし、農林大
第八條自作農創設特別指置第五條第七號の命令で定める農地は、左に
臣がこれを管理する。
揚げんものとする。
前項の決定は都道府縣農地委員會の承認がなければその効力を生じ
ない
一地側慣行のある農地
二鎖山又は炭坑附近の農地で陷沒の處あるもの
都道府縣農地委員會が前項の承認をするには當該農地の所管大臣の
三前二銃に揚げるものの外農林大臣の指定する農地
認可を受けなければならない。
第九條市町村農地委員會は自作農創設特別措置法第六條の規定による
第十四條政府の所有に屬する農地につき前條第二項の承認があつたと
農地買收計書及び同法第十八條の規定による發地質渡計畫を速に定め
きは、その時に當該農地が公共用財産若くは公用財産又はが林財産で
五五

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.93)
五四
第四十九條この法律中町村又は町村長に關する規定は、町村の事務の
全部又は役場事務を共同處理する町村組合のある地にあつては町村組
六自作農創設特別措置法施行令（案）
合又は組合管理者に、町村制を施行しない地にあつてはこれに準ずる
ものに市又は市長に闘する親定は、東京都の區のある區域京都市
第一條自作農創設特別措撮法第二條第三項の特別の事由は左に損け
大阪市、横濱市、名古屋市及び神戶市にあつては地方長官の指定する
るものとする。
區又は區長にこれを適用する。
一疾病
第五十條左の各號の一に骸當する者は、これを六箇月以下の懸役又は
二就學
五百圓以下の罰金に處する。
三召集
一第三十二條第二項（第三十七條第二項に於て準用する場合を含
四選舉による公務就任その他の事由で市町村農地委員會が一時同
むにおいて準用する第三十二條第一項の規定による當談官吏の測
居しないことをやむなくさせた事由と認めて都道府縣農地委員會の
量檢査、移轉又は除却を拒み、妨げ又は忌避した者
承認を受けたもの
二第四十二條の規定に違反した者
第二條市町村農地委員會は、自作農特別指置法第三條第一項第一號の
三第四十五條の規定に違反して、報告を怠り、又は虚僞の報告をし
指定による指定をしようとするときは、當該隣接市町村に設けられた
た者
市町村農地委員會の同意を得て地方長官の指定する期日までに都道府
第五十一條法人の代表者又は法人若くは人の代理人、使用人その他の
縣農地委員會に對して承認を申請しなければならない。
従薬者が、その法人又は人の薬務に關し前條第二號又は第三號の違反
第三條自作農創設特別措置法第三條第四項の命令で定める農地は左に
行篇をしたときは、行爲者を罰する外、その法人又は人に對して同條
揚げるものとする。
の前金刑を科する。
一新開熱地、燒畑、切替畑等收穫の著しく不定な農地
附則
二鐵山又は炭坑附近の農地で陥沒の處あるもの
この法律施行の押日は、勅令でこれを定める。
三前二號に於けるものの外農林大臣の指定する農地
第三條第一項の規定による農地の買收については市町村農地委員會
第四條自作農創設特別指置法第三條第五項の規定による認定は同項第
は、相當と認めるときは、命令の定めるところにより、昭和二十年十一
一號乃至第五號に揚げる農地に關する場合にあつては市町村農地委員
月二十三日現在における事實に基いて第六條の規定による農地買收計鑑
會又は都道府縣農地委員會が同項第八號に揚ける農地に關する場合
を定めることができる。
にあつては、市町村農地委員會がこれを行ふ。
7

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.95)
六條又は第三十七條の規定により買收し、又は使用する土地、権利又
ると認めるときは、この法律により市町村農地委員會の権限に屬され
は立木工作物その他物件の對價第十三條第三項に規定する報償金
た事項を都道府縣農地委員會に處理させることができる。
及び第二十二條第二項又は第三十九條第一項の規定による補償金は
②前項の場合には、同項の規定により都道府縣農地委員會に處理さ
三十年以内に償還すべき證祭を以てこれを交付することが出來る。
せる事項に闘しては、この法律により都道府縣農地委員會の權限に風
②罰項の規定により交付するため、政府は、必要な額を限度として
させた事項は、地方長官が、之を處理し、この法律により市町村農地
證券を行することができる。
委員會に對してすべき異議の申立は、都道府縣農地委員會に對し、都
③前二項の規定により交付する證券の交付價格は、時價を参酌して
道府縣農地委員會に對してすべき訴願の提起は、地方長官に對して
大蔵大臣が、これを定める。
れなするものとする。
①第二項の證券に闘し必要な事項は、命令でこれを定める。
③主務大臣は、自作農の創設上特に必要があると認めるときは、こ
第四十四條第三條第十五條第三十條第一項第三十三條第二項
の法律により都道府縣農地委員會の權限に屬させた事項を地方長官又
第三十六條若しくは第三十七條の規定による買收、第十六條（第二十
は中央濃地委員會に處理させることができる。
九條第二項において準用する場合を含む若しくは第四十一條の規定
前項の場合には、同項の規定により地方長官又は中央農地委員會
による賢渡若くは買貸、第二十三條若しくは第二十五條の規定による
に處理させる事項に關しては、この法律により地方長官の権限に属さ
交換又は第二十八條第一項（第四十一條第三項において準用十る場合
せた事項は、主務大臣が、これを處理し、この法律により都道府縣農
を含むの規定による買收をする場合における登記は、勅令の定める
地委員會に對してすべき異議の申立は地方長官又は中央農地委員會
ところによる。
に對し、地方長官に對してすべき訴題の提起は、主務大臣に對してこ
第四十五條主務大臣又は地方長官は、必要があると認めるときは、農
れをするものとする。
地其の他の土地又は物件に關し必要な報告を微することができる。
第四十八條この法律中市町村選地委員會に關する規定は、地區農地委
第四十六條政府が第三條第十五條第三十條第三十三條第二項
員団の設けられてある市町村の地區にあつては、地區農地委員會にこ
第三十六條又は第三十七條の規定により買收し、又は使用する土地
れを適用する。この場合において第三條第一項中「市町村の區域」と
權利、又は立木、工作物その他の物件の管理に闘する主務大臣の禮限
あるのは「地區農地委員會の設けられてみる地區一と、同項第一號中
の一部は、命令の定めるところにより、市町村長、市町村農地委員會
「隣接市町村の區域」とあるのは、「隣接市町村の區域内の地域又は他
その他命令で定めたるものにこれを行はせることができる
の地區農地委員會の設けられてみる地區で當該地區に隣接する地區
第四十七條①主務大臣又は地方長官は、自作舞の創設上特に必要があ
と読み替へるものとする。
五三

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.95)
五二
第三十七條の規定による買收若しくは使用又は第三十三條第二項（第
又は同條第二項の規定により使用した權利、土地、立木若しくは工作
三十七條第二項において準用する場合を含む若しくは第三十六條第
物を自作農として農業に精進し得る見込のある者その他命令で定める
一項（第三十七條第二項において準用する場合を含む）の規定による
者に変り渡し、又は貸貸することが出來る。
買牧の場合にあつては、當談土地、禮利又は立木、工作物その他の物
②前項の規定による喪渡又は負貸については、第十七條、第十八條
件に闘し所右權及び機保権以外の權利を有した者第三十三條第一項
第一項乃至第三項第五項、第二十條第二十一條及び第二十六條の規
第三十七條第二項において準用する場合を含むの規定はよる收去
定を準用する。この場合において、第三十一條の規定による未墾地買
の場合にあつては、當談物件に闘し機保權以外の権利を有した者に限
收計畫により買收し、又は使用した土地（第三十條第一項第二號に規
る。但し、その者が第三十一條第四項（第三十七條第二項及び前條第
定する土地を含む。、機利、立木又は工作物の変渡又は負貸について
二項において準用する場合を含むこの規定による公告のあつた後當該
は、第十七條及び第十八條第一項竝びに同條第五項において準用する
權利を取得した者であるときは、この限りでない。
第八條中「市町村農地委會」とあるのは「都道府縣農地委員會」と
①第一項の補償金額については、第二十二條第三項乃至第七項の規
「都道府縣農地委員會の承認」とあるのは「地方長官の認可」と讀み
定を準用する。この場合において「市町村農地委員會」とあるのは、第
替へるものとする。
三十二條第二項（第三十七條第二項において準用十る場合を含む。に
①第一項の規定により第三十條第一項第一號乃至第三號に規定する
おいて準用十る同條第一項の規定に上る行爲、第三十三條第一項（第三
土地を変り渡す場合には、前項において準用する規定の外、第二十七
十七條第二項において準用する場合を含むの規定による收去文は第
條及び第二十八條の規定を準用する。
三十三條第二項若しくは第三十六條第一項（第三十七條第二項にお
第四十二條第六條第五項（第十五條第二項において準用する場合を含
いて準用する場合を含む。の規定による買收に係る補償については、
む又は第三十一條第四項（第三十七條第二項及第三十八條第二項に
「地方長官」と、その他の補償については前條の規定による買收に
おいて準用する場合を含むの規定による公告のあつた後は、當該買
係る場合を除いて一都道府縣農地委員會」と讀み替へるものとする。
收計盤において定められた土地、農業用施設、工作物又は立木に關す
第四十條第三十條の規定により政府が買收した土地又は同條第一項第
る権利を有する者は、買收又は使用に支障を及ぼす處のない場合を除
二號に規定する土地の開發については、他の法令中命令で定める制限
いて、地方長官の許可を受けなければ、當該土地の形質を變更し、又
又は禁止の規定は、これを適用しない。
は當談濃業用施設、工作物若しくは立木を損壊し、若しくは收去して
第四十一條①政府は、第三十條第一項の規定により買收した土地（同
はならない。
條第一項第二號に規定する土地を含む。、拙利、立木若しくは工作物
第四十三餘②第三條第十五條、第三十餘第三十三條第二項 第三十

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.95)
會」と調み答へるものとする。
②前項の場合には、第三十一條乃至前係の規定を準用する。
第三十五條政府が第三十條第二項の規定により、權利、土地、立木又は
第三十八條①政府が第三十條第一項の規定による買收をする場合にお
工作物を使用する場合においては、前係において準用する第九條第一
いて、その買收に係る同項第一號の土地の面積が主務大臣の定める面
項の令書に記減し、又は同項但書の規定により公告した使用の時期
積を超えないときは、政府は、第三十一條第一項の規定にかかはらず、
に、政府は、當該權利、土地、立木又は工作物の使用權を取得し、當談
市町村農地委員會の定める未墾地買收計盤により第三十條第一項の親
利又は當該土地、立木若しくは工作物に關する植利は、使用の期間そ
定による買收をすることができる。
の行使を停止される。但し、使用を妨げないものは、この限りでない。
②前項の場合には、第七條第八條第三十一條第二項第三項前段第
第三十六條①第三十條第二項の規定による權利、土地、立木若しくは工
四項及び第三十二條第一項の規定を準用する。この場合において、第
作物の使用が三年以上に亙るとき、又はその使用に因つて當該権利
七條第一項及び第八條中一同條第五項一とあり又は第七條第二項中
土地、立木若しくは工作物を従來用ひた目的に供することが著しく困
「前條第五項」とあるのは一第三十一條第第四項」と、第三十一條第
難となるときは、當該權利を有する者又は當談土地、立木若しくは工
四項及び第三十二條第一項中「都道府縣農地委員會」とあるのは一市
作物の所有者は、命令の定めるところにより、政府に對して當該權利
町村農地委員會」と讀み替へるものとする。
又は土地、立木若しくは工作物の買收を請求することができる。
第三十九條①政府は第三十二條第一項（同條第二項、第三十七條第二
②前項に規定する買收の對價は、地方長官が、これを定める。
項及び前條第二項において準用する場合を含むの規定による行為
①第一項の場合には第三十一條第三項前段及び第三十三條第四類
第三十三條第一項（第三十七條第二項において準用する場合を含む）
の規定を準用する。この場合において、第三十一條第三項前段におい
の規定による收去、第三十二條第四項（第三十六條第三項及び第三十
て準用する第六條第三項中一市町村農地委員會が地方長官の認可を受
七條第二項において準用する場合を含む若しくは第三十四條（第三
けて」とあるのは、「地方長官が」と讃み替へるものとする。
十七條第二項において準用する場合を含むにおいて準用する第十二
第三十七條①政府は、第三十條の規定により土地の買收をする場合に
條第一項の規定による權利の消減又は第三十五條（第三十七條第二項
おいて、特に必要があるときは、その買收の當時當談土地に關し所有
において準用する場合を含むの規定による権利の行使の停止に因つ
權、貸借樓、使用貸借による權利、永作作權、地上權父は入會禮を有
て生じた損失を初償しなければならない。
する者に對し當跋土地に代るべき土地として変り渡し、又は貸貸する
②第三十二條第一項（同條第二項、第三十七條第二項及び前條第二
ため必要な他の土地（當談土地の上にある立木を含む。を買收し、又
項において準用する場合を含むの規定による行爲に係る補償の場合
は使用することができる。
を除いて、前項の規定による補償を受けるべき者は第三十條若しくは
è

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
五O
事項を記載した書類を縦覚に供しなければならない。
（同條第一項第二號に規定する土地を含む。）又は工作物にある物件の
一買收し、又は使用すべき土地、權利立木又は工作物の所有者の
所有者又は占有者に、その物件を牧去させることができる。
氏名又は名稱及び住所
②前項の場合において、當該物件を收去することに因つて當談物件
二買收し、又は使用すべき土地については、その所在、地番、地目
を從來用ひた目的に供することができないときは、當跋物件の所有者
及び面積、機利については、その種類、立木については、その樹種、
は、命令の定めるところにより、政府に對してその買牧を請求するこ
敷地及び所在の場所、工作物については、その種類及び所在の場所
とができる。
三對價
③前項に規定する買收の對價は、地方長官が、時價を參酌してこれ
四買收の時期又は使用の時期及び期間
を定める。
①未墾地買收計盤については、第七條及び第八條の規定を準用する。
①第二項に規定する買收については、第九條、第十一條第十二條
この場合において、これらの規定中「市町村農地委員會」とあるのは
第一項、第十三條第一項第二項及び第十四條の規定を準用する。この
「都道府縣農地委員會」と、「都道府縣農地委員會」とあるのは「地
場合において、第九條第二項第一號中「第六條第五項各號」とあるの
方長官」と、第七條第一項及び第八條中「同條第五項」とあり、及は
は一第三十一條第四項各號」と、第十一條中「第六條乃至第九條」と
第七條第二項中「前條第五項」とあるのは「第三十一條第四項」と
あるのは一第三十三條第四項において準用する第九條」と願み替へる
第八條中「承認」とあるのは「認可」と聴み替へるものとする。
ものとする
第三十二條①都道府縣農地委員會は、前條の規定に上る未墾地買收計
第三十四條第三十條の規定による買收又は使用については、第九條乃
豊を定めるため必要があるときは、その委員又は委員會の事務に從事
至第十一條第十二條第一項第十三條第一項第二項及び第十四條の
する者に、他人の土地に立ち入つて、測量し、檢査し、又は測過若しく
規定を準用する。この場合において、第九條第二項第一號中「第六條
は檢査の障害となる物を移軸し、若しくは除却させることができる。
第五項各號」とあるのは「第三十一條第四項各號」と第十一條中
但し、これは因つて生じた損害は、これを補償しなければならない。
「第六條乃至第九條」とあるのは「第三十一條第一項乃至第四項
②政府が第三十條の規定による買收又は使用をするため必要がある
（第三十八條第二項において準用する場合を含む）。若しくは同條第一
場合には、前項の規定を準用する。この場合において、同項の規定中
項、第三十一條第五項若しくは第三十八條第二項において準用する第
「その委員又は委員會の事務に從事する者」とあるのは「當該官吏」
七條及び第八條並びに第三十四條において準用する第九條一と讀み替
と讀み替へるものとする
へるものとし、第十條中市町村農地委員會」とあるのは、當該買收
第三十三條政府は、第三十條の規定による買收又は使用に係る土地
が第三十八條に規定するものである場合を除いて一都道府縣農地委員

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.95)
③前項の一定の割合は、中央農地委責會が、これを定める。但し、
する所有權及び擔保極以外の機利
三分の一を超えてはならない。
三第一號又は前號の土地附近の農地で當該土地と併せて開設するの
③前項に規定するものの外第一項の規定の施行に闘し必要な事項
を相當とするもの
は、命令でこれを定める。
四第一號又は第二號の土地の上にある立木又は建物亡の仙の工作物
第二十八條①第十六條の規定に依る農地の変渡を受けた者又はその相
五漁菜權
親人が當該農地に就いての自作をやめようとするときは、政府は、命
六水の使用に闘する權利
令の定めるところにより、その者に對し當談農地を買ひ取るべきこと
七開發後における第一號又は第二號の土地の利用上必要な土地立
を申し入れなければならない。
木又は建物その他の工作物
前項第六號又は第七號に掲げるものは、政府が、これを使用するこ
②前項の申し入れがあつたときは、その時にその申し入れにおいて
とができる。
定めた條件によつて當談盤地の賢買が成立する。この場合における當
該農地の對價には、第六條第三項の規定を準用する。
第三十一條①政府が前條の規定による買收又は使用をするには、都道
第二十九條①第十六條の規定により農地の賣渡を受けた者で命令で定
府縣農地委員會が命令の定めるところにより定める未墾地買收計畫に
めるものは、第十五條の規定により政府が買收した農薬用施設、土地
よらなければならない。
文は建物を買ひ受けようとするときは、市町村農地委員會に對して申
②未墾地買收計鑑においては、買收し、又は使用すべき土地、樓利
し込をしなければならない。
立木又は建物その他の工作物、買收の時期又は使用の時期及び期間竝
②第十五條の規定により政府が買收した農萊用施設、土地又は建物
びに對價を定めなければならない。
の愛渡については、第十六條、第十八條乃至第二十二條及び第二十六
③前項の對價を定める場合には、農地にあつては、第六條第三項の
條の規定を準用する。この場合において、第十八條第三項中「前條」
規定を準用し、農地以外の土地にあつては、命令の定めるところによ
とあり、又は第十九條第一項中「第十七條」とあるのは一第二十九條
り、當談土地の近傍類似の農地の時價を参酌し、土地以外のものにあつ
第一項」と頷み替へるものとする。
ては、時價を參酌する。この場合において、同項中「市町村農地委賞
會」とあるのは一都道府縣農地委員會」と讃み替へるものとする。
第三十條政府は、自作盤を創設するため必要があるときは、左に揚げ
るものを買收することができる。
都道府縣盤地委貞會は、未墾地買收計畫を定めたときは、運滞な
一農地以外の土地で農地の開發に供しようとするもの
くその旨を公告し、且つ公告の日から二十日間前條の親定により買收
二政府の所有に屬する土地で農地の開設に供しようとするものに闘
し、又は使用すべきものの所在地の市役所又は町村役場において左の
四九
1

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.95)
.1
四八
十日以内に當該指示に係る交換に關して市町村島地委員會と協議しな
これをすることができる。
ければならない。
①市町村農地委貞會が第一項の指示をしたときは、運滞なくその旨
①前項の場合に於て、協議が調はないとき、又は協議をすることが
を當該指示に係る農地の所有者及び所有者でない貸貸人に通知しなけ
できないときは、市町村農地委員會は、都道府縣農地委員會の裁定の
ればならない。
申睛をすることができる。
⑤前項の通知を受けた者は、第一項の指示に異議かあるときは、市
⑤前項の規定による裁定があつたときは、その定めるところにより、
町村農地委員會に異議を申し立てることができる。但し、前項の通知
交換の契約が設立したものとみなす。
を受けた日から十日を經過したときは、この限りでない。
第二十四條①前條の規定による交換においては、同條第三項の協議又
第一項の規定による交換には、第二十三條第三項乃至第五項及び
は同條第四項の裁定において定められた日に農地の所有権の移轉の效
前條の規定を準用する。この場合においては、第二十三條第三項中
力が、生ずるものとする。
「市町村農地委員會と協議し」とあるのは「協議し」と、同條第四項
②前項の規定による所有權の移轉の際當該小作地の上にある先取特
中一市町村島地委員會は、都道府縣農地委員會の裁定」とあるのは「第
槌、質根父は抵當權は、営該小作地の所有者が交換に因り取得した農
一項の指示を受けた者は、市町村農地委員會の裁定」と讀み替へるも
地の上にあるものとする。
のとする。
第二十五條①政府が第十六條の規定により農地を賣り渡す場合におい
第二十六條第十六條の規定により変り渡した農地の對價の支拂は、支
て自作選の創設を適正に行ふため特に必要があるときは、市町村農
拂期間三十年（据證期間を含む以内、年利三分二厘の均等年賦支拂
地委目會は、政府の覚り渡すべき選地につき貨借極又は永小作極をす
の方法によるものとする。但し、當該農地を買ひ受けた者の申出のあ
有る者及び地目、面積、等位等が當該農地と近似する農地で政府の買
るときは、その對價の全部又は一部につき一時支拂の方法によるもの
收しないものにつき貨借権又は永小作確を有する者に對して當談段借
とする。
極又は永小作機の交換に闘し必要な事項を指示することができる。
第二十七條①第十六條の規定により変り渡した農地の對償を命令で定
②前項の指示は、交換により移轉すべき貨借權又は永小作機の目的
める支拂の方法により支拂ふものとした場合における年賦金額と當該
たる農地の所在、地番、地目及び面積を定めて、これをしなければな
濃地の公租公課の金額の合計額が當該農地の通常收覆物の價額の一定
らない。
の割合を超えるときは、政府は、當該盤地の對價の支拂につき年賦金
③第一項の規定による交換については、負借棚又は永小作植の移轉
額を減免し、年賦金額の支拂を猶徴し、その他對價の支拂に闘する負
は、民法第二百七十二條但書及び第六百十二條の規定にかはらず
携を輕減するため、必要な措置を講じなければならない。

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.95)
を經過したときは、この限りでない。
権利の消滅に因つて生じた損失を補償しなければならない。但し、その
①前項の場合には、第七條第二項乃至第四項の規定を準用する。この
者が第六條第五項の規定による公告のあつた後第十二條第一項の規定
場合において、同條第二項中「前條第五項」とあるのは「第十八條第
により消滅した權利を取得した者であるときは、この限りではない。
四項」と讃み替へるものとする。
①前項の規定により補償すべき損失は、第一項の規定による機利の
第二十條①第十六條の規定による逆渡は地方長官が第十八條第五項
消滅に因つて通常生ずべき損失とする。
において準用する第八條の規定による承認があつた機地強渡計畫によ
①第二項の補似金額は、市町村農地委員會が、地方長官の認可を受
り賢渡の相手方に對し費渡通知書を交付して、これをしなければなら
けてこれを決定する。
ない。
⑤市町村農地委員會は、前項の補似金額を決定したときは、遅滞な
③通知書には、左の事項を記戦しなければならない。
く第二項の規定により補償を受けべき者に對してこれを通知しなけれ
一第十八條第四項各號に揭ける事項
ばならない。
二對價の支拂の方法及び時期
第四項の補償金額の決定に對して不服ある者は、通常裁判所に出
三その他必要な事項
訴することができる。但し、前項の通知を受けた日から二十日を經過
第二十一録①前條の規定による寶渡通知書の交付があつたときは、そ
したときは、この限りでない。
の通知書に記載された変渡の時期に、當該農地の所有禮は、その通知
①第一項の規定により消滅する権利の上に先取特権、質権又は抵當
書に記載された資渡の相手方に移陣する。
樓があるときは、第十三條第一項及び第二項の規定を準用する。
②前項の規定により取得した島地の對價については、第十四條の規
第二十三條①政府が第十六條の規定により農地を賣り渡す場合におい
定を準用する。
て、自作慶の創設を適正に行ふため特に必要があるときは、市町村島
第二十二條①第十六條の規定による資渡があつた島地につき第十二條
地委員會は、地目、面積、等位等が當該農地と近似する小作地と當該
第二項の規定により設定された権利がある場合において、その權利を
農地との交換に關し、當談小作地の所有者に對して、必要な事項を指
有する者が當該農地の賢渡の相手方でないときは、當該権利（當該櫂
示することができる。
利が地役權であるときは、市町村農地委員會が當該農地を耕作するこ
②前項の指示は、交換により當該小作地の所有者の取得すべき農地
との妨げになるものと認定した地役權に限る。は、當該農地の費渡の
及び政府の取得すべき島地についてその所在、地番、地目及び面積を
時期に消滅する。
定めて、これをしなければならない。
②政府は、前項の規定により消滅する權利を有する者に對してその
③第一項の規定による指示を受けた者は、その指示を受けた日から
四七

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.93)
2
四六
第十四條第三條の規定により買收した農地の對價に對して不服ある者
②政府は、特別の事情があるときは、第三條の規定により買收した
は、通常裁判所に出訴することができる。但し、令書の交付又は第九
農地を市町村島菜會その他命令で定める團證で自作農創設の事業を行
條第一項但書の公告のあつた後一箇月を経過したときは、この限りで
ふものに変り渡すことができる。
ない。
第十七條前條に規定する者で同條に規定する農地を買ひ受けようとす
第十五條①第三條の規定により買收する農地に就き自作農となるべき
るものは、市町村農地委員會に對してその申込をしなければならない。
者又は當該農地につき所有権その他の権利を有する者が左に掲げる機
第十八條①政府が、第十六條の規定により寶渡をするには、市町村農
飛用施設、土地又は建物を政府において買牧すべき旨の申請をした場
地委員會の定める提地齊渡計盤によらなければならない。
合において、市町村農地委貝會がその申請を相當と認めたときは、政
②農地変渡計豊においては、変り渡すべき農地竝びに賣渡の相手方
府は、これゃ買收する。
時期及び對價を定めなければならない。
一第三條の規定により買收する農地の利用上必要な農業用施設
③前項の変渡の相手方は、前係の規定による買受の申込をした者で
二第三條の規定によぬ買收する農地に就き自作農となるべき者が
なければならない。
食借權、使用貸借による權利若しくは永小作權を有する探草地、負
①市町村農地委員會は、農地資渡計畫を定めたときは、運滞なくそ
借樓、使用貸借による種利若しくは地上継を有する宅地又は貿借権
の旨を公告し、且つ公告の日から十日間市役所又は町村役場において
を有する建物
左の事項を記戦した書類を縦覚に供しなければならない。
②前項の場合に、第六條第一項第二項第五項、第七條乃至第十二條
一賣渡の相手方の氏名又は名稱及び住所
第十三條第一項第二項及び前條の規定を準用する。
二変り渡すべき農地の所在、地番、地目及び而積
則項において準用する第六條第二項の對價は、探草地にあつては、
三對假
命令の定めるところにより、當該採草地の近傍類似の農地の時價を參
四賣渡の時期
酌し、探草地以外のものにあつては、時價を窓酌してこれを定める。
⑤農地貸渡計盤については、第八條の規定を準用する。この場合に
第十六條①政府は、第三條の規定により買收した農地及び政府の所有
於て、同條中「同條第五項」とあるのは「第十八條第四項」と「前
に属する農地で命令で定めるものを、命令の定めるところにより、そ
條第一項」とあるのは「第十九條第一項」と讀み替へるものとする
の買收の時期において営該農地に就き耕作の薬務を登む小作農その他
第十九條①第十七條の規定による買受の申込をした者は、前條の規定
命令で定める者で、自作選として農業に精進する見込のあるものに変
による農地賞渡計盤について異議があるときは、市町村農地委員會に
り渡す。
對して異議を申し立てることが出來る。但し、同條第四項の縦魔期間

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.93)
禮、使用貸借による権利、氷小作樓、地上槽又は地役權があるときは、
代へることができる。
その取得の時に當該權利を有する者のために従前と同一の條件を以て
②令書には、左の事項を記戦しなければならない。
當談機利が設定されたものとみなす。但し、その機利の存練期間は、
一第六條第五項各號に揭げる事項
從前の権利の残存期間とする。
二對價の支拂の方法及び時期
三其の他必要な事項
①前項の場合に於て、從前の極利の上に先取特機、質權义は抵當機
があるときは、その先取特機、質継又は抵當拠は、同項の規定により
①地方長官は、令書の交付又は第一項但番の公告をしたときは、運
設定された櫻利の上にあるものとみなす。
滞なく令書の交付又は同項但当の公告の際における買收の目的たる農
第十三條①第三條の規定による農地の買收については、政府は、その
地につき先取特機、質權乂は抵當機を有する者に對してこれを通知し
對價を買收の時期における當該農地の所有者に支拂はなければならな
なければならない。但し、先取特機、質權父は抵當櫂を有する者が知
れないとき、その他通知をすることができないときは、命令の定める
い。但し、當該農地の上に先取特權、質權又は抵當離がある場合にお
いて、當該權利を有する者の請求があるとき、又は當該權利を有する
ところにより、公告をし、通知に代へることができる。
者が知れないときは、その對價を供託しなければならない。
第十條第三條、第六條及び前條の規定の適用については、農地の面積
は土地帳に登録した當該島地の地積による。但し、市町村盤地委
②當該農地の上に先取特機、質棚又は抵當權を有する者は、前項の
員留が當該農地につき土地茲帳に登録した地積を以てその面積とする
規定により供託した對價に對してその權利を行ふことができる。
ことを着しく不相當と認め、別段の面積を定めたときは、當該農地に
①政府は、第三條の規定により買收する農地の所有者に對して、そ
ついては、その面積による。
の農地の面積（その農地の面積が同條第一項第三號の當該都道府縣別
の而積又は同條第三項の規定により當談區域につき定められた當該都
第十一條第六條乃至第九條の規定によりした手識その他の行爲は、第
道府縣別の面積に代るべき面積を超えるときは、當該都道府縣別の面
主條の規定により買收すべき農地の所有者、先取特極者、賀權者又は
積又は當談都道府縣別の面積に代るべき面積）に願じて報償金を交付
抵営機者の承継人に對してもその效力を有する。
する。
第十二條①地方長官が第九條の規定による手練をしたときは、令書に
記載し又は同係第一項但書の規定により公告した買收の時期に、當該
前項の報償金の一反歩當りの額は、田にあつては二百二十圓、畑
にあつては百三十圓を基準とし、當該盤地の牧址、位置その他の狀況
農地の所有機は、政府が、これを取得し、當該最地に闘する権利は、
消滅する。
を參酌して、主務大臣が、之を定める。
前項の規定により政府が取得した選地につきその取得の當時貨借
③第三項の規定の適用については、第十條の規定を準用する。
四五

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.94)
③前項の對償は、當談機地につき地組法による食貸價格があるとき
第七條①前條の規定による農地買收計豊に定められたる農地につき所
は田にあつては當談貸貸價格に四十（農地調整法第六條ノ三第一項
有機を有する者は、當該農地買收計盤について異闘があるときは、市
町村農地委貞會に對して異議を申立てることができる。但し、同條第
の規定により地方長官の定めた車があるときはその事畑にあって
は當談貨貸價格に四十八同條同項の規定により地方長官の定めた率
五項の縦覚期間を経過したときは、此の限りでない。
があるときは、その率）を乗じて得た額（同條同項の規定により地方
②市町村農地委目會は、前項の申立を受けたときは、前條第五項の
長官か定めた額かあるときは、その額の範国内においてこれを定め、
縦覺期間滿了後二十日以内に決定をしなければならない。
當該農地につき地租法に依る貸貸價格がないときは、市町村農地委員
②前項の決定に對し不服ある申立人は、都道府縣農地委貞會に訴
會が地方長官の認可を受けて定めた額による。但し、特別の事情に囚
することが出來る。但し、同項の期間務了後十日を經過したときは、
つて市町村農地委員會が地方長官の認可を受けて當該農地につき額を
この限りでない。
定めたときは、その額による。
①都道府縣農地委員會は、前項の訴願を受理したときは、同項但書
①市町村農地委員會は、農地買收計盤を定めるには、左の本項を勘
の期間務了後二十日以内に裁決しなければならない。
案してこれをしなければならない。
第八條①第六條の規定による農地買收計鑑につき同條第五項の期間内
一自作慶となるべき者の農地を買受ける機會を公正にすること。
に前係第一項の規定による異議の申立がないとき、同項の規定による
二自作農となるべき者の耕作する農地を集断化し、且つ當談地方の
異談の申立があつた場合においてそのすべてについて同條第二項の規
狀況に願じて當該盤地につき田畑の割合を適正にすること。
定による決定があり、且つ同條第三項但書の期間内に訴願の提起がな
市町村農地委良會は、農地買收計聖を定めたときは、遅滞なくそ
かつたとき、又は同項の規定による訴紙の提起があつた場合において
そのすべてについて同條第四項の規定による裁決があつたときは、市
の旨を公告し、且つ公告の日から十日間市役所又は町村役場において
町村邊地委貞會は遲溜なく當該農地買收計畫について都道府縣農地
左の事項を記減した書類を縦覚に供しなければならない。
委員會の承認受けなければならない。
一買收すべき農地の所有者の氏名又は名稱及住所
第九條①第三條の規定による買收は、地方長官が前條の規定による承
二買收すべき機地の所在、地番、地目（土地姦帳の地日が現況と異
なるときは、土地飛帳の地目及び現況による地目以下同じ及び面
認があつた農地買收計畫により當該舞地の所有者に對し買收令書を交
付して、これをしなければならない。但し、當該農地の所有者が知れ
三對
ないとき、その他令書の交付をすることができないときは、命令の定
四買收の時期
むるところにより、第二項各號に揚げる事項を公告し、令書の交付に

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.93)
政府において買教することを相當と認めたものは、政府が、これを
規定による買收をしない。
買教する。
一國又は公共團證が公共用又は公用に供してある農地
一自作農でその者の營い耕作の薬務が適正でないものの所有する
二都道府縣、市町村都道府縣農萊會、市町村農藥會農事實行組
自作地の面積が第一項第三號の面積を超える場合、當該面積を超
合農地開發營國その他命令で定める團造の所有する盤地で自作農
える面積の自作地
創設又は共同耕作の目的に供するもの
二自作地で當該自作地に就いての自作農以外の者が請員その仙の
三試験研又は農指導の目的に供してみる農地で地方官の指定
契約に基き耕作の薬務のい的に供してみるもの
したもの
三法人その他の團體でその營む耕作の業務が適正でないものの所
四都市計畫法第十二條第一項の規定による土地區劃整理を施行する
有する自作地
土地又は都市計畫による同法第十六條第一項の施設に必要な土地の
四法人その他の團證の所有ずる小作地
境域内にある農地で地方長官の指定する區域内にあるもの
五農地で所有機その他の榴原におきこれを耕作することの出來る
五近く土地使用の目的を變更することを相當とする農地で市町村長
者が現に耕作の目的に供してみないもの
地委員會が都道府縣農地委員會の承認を得て指定したもの
六前各號に揚げるものを除く外農地でその所有者が市町村農地委
六自作農が挨病その他命令で定める事由に因つてその自作地に就き
員會に對し政府において買收すべき旨を申し出たもの
自ら耕作の薬務を營むことができないため段貸借又は使用貸借によ
第四條①前條の規定の適用については、農地の所有者の同居の戶主若
り一時當該自作地を他人の耕作の菜務の目的に供した場合、市町村
しくは家又は農地の所有者の戶主若しくは家族で第二條第三項に規
農地委員會が、その自作農が近く自作するものと認め、且つその自
定する特別の事由に因りその者と同居しなくなつた者が當該濃地の所
作を相當と認めろ當該選地
有者の住所のある市町村の岡域内において所有する農地は、これを當
七新開熱地、燒畑、切替畑等收護 著しく不定な農地その他命令で
該農地の所有者の所有する農地と八六す。
定める農地で市町村農地委員會が政府において買收することを不相
②前條第一項の規定の適用については、農地の所有者で第二條第三
當と認めるもの
一
項に規定する特別の事山に因りその所有する農地のある市町村の區域
第六條①政府が第三條の規定による以收をするには、市町村農委員
内に所を有しなくなつたものは、これを當該市町村の砥城内に住所
會の定める農地買收計盛によらなければならない。
を有する者とみなす。
②選地買收計盤においては買收すべき農地並びに買牧の時期及び
第五條①政府は、左の各號の一に該當する農地については、第三條の
對價を定めなければならない。
四三

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.93)
四二
二農地の所有者がその住所のある市町村の區域内において、北海道
自作農創設特別措置法
にあつては四町歩、都府縣にあつては中央農地委員會が都府縣別に
定める面積を超える小作地を所有する場合、その面積を超える面積
昭和二十一年十月二十一日
2
法律第四十三號
の當該區域内の小作地
第一條この法律は、耕作者の地位を安定し、その勞働の成果を公正に
三農地の所有者がその住所のある市町村の區域内においと所有する
享受させるため自作義を急速且つ虚汎に創設し、以て農薬生産力の發
小作地の面積とそのものの所有する自作地の而積の合計が、北海道
眼と農村における民き的傾向の促進を圖ることを目的とする。
にあつては十二町歩、都府縣にあつては中央農地姿い命の都府縣別
第二様①この法律において農地とは、耕作の目的に供される土地をい
に定める而積を超えるときは、その面積を超える面積の當談區城内
40
の小作地
②この法律において、自作地とは、耕作の薬務を答む者が所有拙に
②前項第二號又は第三號に規定する都府縣別の面積は、その平均
基きその業務の目的に供してみる地をいひ、小作地とは、耕作の薬
面積が同項第二號に規定するものにあつては概ね一町歩同項第三
務を營む者が買借檻、使用貸借による權利、永小作機、地上權又は質
號に規定するものにあつては概ね三町歩になるやうに、これを定め
継におきその薬務の目的に供してみる農地をいふ。
なければならない。
①前項の規定の適用については耕作の薬務を營む者の同居の戸主
③都道府縣農地委員會ば、特に必要があると認めるときは、中央
若しくは家族又は耕作の薬務を營む者の戸主若しくは家族で命令で定
農地委員會の承認を得て、當該都道府縣の區域を二以上の區域に分
める特別の事由に因りその者と同居しなくなつたものが有する同項に
け各區域別に第一項第二號又は第三號の都道府縣別の面積に代るべ
き面積を定めることが出來る。但し、各區域別の而積は、その平均
掲げる機利は、これをその朝作の薬務を營む者の有するものとみなす。
この法律において、自作農とは、自作地に就き耕作の薬務を營む個
而積が概れ同項第二號又は第三號の當該都道府縣別の而積になるや
人をいひ、小作長とは、小作地に就き耕作の薬務を營む個人をいふ
うに、これを定めなければたらない。
第三條①左に揚げる農地は、政府が、これを買收する。
第五條第七號に規定する農地で命令で定めるものの而積は、第
一長地の所有者がその住所のある市町村の區域（その隣接市町村の
一項第二號又は第三號に規定する小作地又は自作地の面積にこれを
區域内の地域で市町村農地委員會が都道府縣農地委員會の承認を得
算入しない
て當談市町村の區城に準ずるものとして指定したものを含む。以下
①第一項の盤地の外左に揚げる農地で、都道府縣農地委員會又は
同じ。外において所有する小作地
市町村農地委員會が、命令の定めるところにより、自作農の創設上

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.75)
ケル當該都道府縣二於ケル生產者庭先相場平均額二三一○三
四農地調整法施行二闕ス八告示
フ乗ジテ得タルモノニンテ農林大臣ノ承四ッ受ケ地方長官ノ指定
スん價格
昭和二十一年一月二十六日林省告示第十四號
四地方長官ガ特殊ノ事情二依第一號乃至第六號二揚少ル價格又
昭和二十一年十二月十日發林省告示第百四十三號
へ前號二依リ算定シチ得タん價格ッ不適當ト認ムん場合二於テ農
林大臣ノ承認受ケ區域ヲ定メ前各號揚グん價格二代んべキ價
為地調整法第六條二竝二同法施行令第五條第六歲及第十二條規定
格ヲ指定シタルトキへ其ノ圓格
依り左ノ通定
備考本喪第一號乃至第六貌二提グル價格八包裝費ヲ含ムモノトス
一農地調整法第六條二ノ規定 依ん主務大臣ノ定八率
現況田ナルモノ
四〇
現況畑ナルモノ
四八
二晨地開整法施行令第五條第六號ノ規定 依八農林大臣定八場
合
一一團地五十坪未補農地二シテ市町村農地委員會ノ承認タん
二燒畑切替畑ニンテ收樓 著シク不定ナル盤地トシテ市町村盤
地委員會ノ認メメルモノ
三農地調整法施行令第十二條規定徒ん農林大臣指定スル價格
米一石當翌00
正味 KO旺當 O.0O
E
口大
同
·MO
日
同
同
目小
同
·四
同
1元四
四大
豆同
國公同
110·Q1
同1 1P·40
田其他物當該物昭和三年同十二年迄ノ十年間二於
图一

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.79)
四0
別記線式ノ七（用紙ノ大サ八日本標軍規格Aトシ中央點線ノ所ッ
(四)
(医)
第
號昭和年月日交付
官
氏
名
蠱地調監法第十七行政官臨必要アリ卜認ムル卜キ八鹿地其
ノ他ノ土地若へ物件=踢ン必要ナル報告ヲ徵シ又へ當該官史
フンテ日出ヨリ日沒迄ノ間慶地其ノ勉必要ナル場所二臨檢シ
其ノ狀況若へ帳簿書類其ノ他ノ物件ヲ檢査セシムルコトッ得
農地調整法第十七餘ノ五左ノ各號ノ一二該當スル者八六月以
下ノ急役又へ五百岡以下ノ罰金三處ス
農地調整法第十七條八規定=依八證票
三第十七條ノ規定二依ル報告ヲ怠り若へ虛僞ノ報告ヲ爲
又へ當該官史ノ臨檢檢査ヲ拒ミ、妨ゲ若八忌避シタル者
發地調整法施行規則第四十三條地調整法第十七條八規定二
依リ地方長官當該官史アンテ臨檢檢査爲サシムル揚合ニ於
チへ其ノ身分フ示ス證察ヲ携帶センムペレ
前項ノ冠票へ別記談式ノ七依
a

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.84)
P
選學昭和何年何月何日執行市町村（地區）晨地委員會丞員選
四立會人メんべキ者ノ屈出書機式
舉農地調整法第十五條二第三項各號別（第一號）（第二號）（第
遇舉立會人（投票立會人）（開眾立會人べ者ノ屆立會人
三
んべそ者
氏
名
市町
推魔自出者氏
名
住所
何
番地
村
住所
生年月日
（昭和）何年何月何日
生年月日
昭和何年何月何日執行市町村地區巖地委員會選舉農地
(推薦國出者）（氏名）
調整法第十五條八二第三項各號八別（第一號（第三號）
（住所）
右別紙本人ノ承諾書相添相出候也
（生年月日）
昭和何年何月何日
右推薦居出候也
農地委員會委員候補者
出
名印
d6
昭和何年何月何日
選舉長（投票分會長開環分會長）氏
名宛
名印
田立會人タルべキ者ノ屆出書三添附スペキ承諾様式
(出
名印
選舉立會人（投票立會人（開票立會人）承諾書
何市區）（町）（村）長氏名宛
昭和何年何月何日執行ノ市町村農地委員會委員選舉二於ケ八農地調監
日委員候補者タルコトッ辭スルコトノ屈出書様式
法第十五條八二第三項各號（第一號）（第二號）（第三號）選學立會
市町村（地區）農地委員會委員候補者辭退
人（投票立會人）（開環立會人）ルコト承諾侯也
委貴侯補者氏名
昭和何年何月何日
事由昭和何年何月何日何為被選舉禮有七ザル至タ
番地
右辭退屈出候也
名印
昭和何年何月何日
屬地委員會委員候補者氏
名宛
員侯補者氏
名印
铜市（)(町)(村)長氏
名宛
事由八被選舉權ク有セザルニ至リタん為委員供補者夕ルコトッ辭ス
ん揚合二限リ配殺スペレ
三九

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.85)
三八
開票分會長
何
何票
職
名
11
何票
何
何頭
開票立會人
何
何
何票
出
名
十二午前（午後）何時投疑ノ點檢了リタルス以開票分會長へ各委
考
2
様式二揭グル事項ノ外開裂分會長二於云開聯二關シ緊與卜認ムル事
員侯補者得票數朗頤
項アルトキハ之タ記載スペン
十三 各委員候補者ノ得票數左ノ如
別記様式八六
何
出
名
委員候補者 屈出書様式
市町村（地區）農地委員會委員候補者屆
何
出
名
委員候補者氏
同項 第三號三屬スん者
住所
何頭
52
出
生年月日
4
選舉昭和何年何月何日執行市町村（地區）愚地委貞會委員選舉）
十四開票分會長へ點檢濟投票=係ん有效無效及受理スべ力うス卜決定
農地調整法第十五條八二第三項各號八別（第一號（第二號）（第三號）
シタル投粟ク大別ン尙有效ノ決定アリタル投票二在リテへ得票者每二
右立候補田出候也
之ヲ區別ン無效ノ決定アリタル投則ニ在リテハ之ヲ類別ン日各之ッ一
昭和何年何月何日
括シ更=有效無效及受理スペカラメト決定ンタル投票別ニ之ッ封簡二
氏
名印
入開票立會人卜共二封印施シタ
何市（區）（町）（村）艮氏
名宛
十五午前（午後）何時開票分會事務結了ンタ
口委貞候補者 推照相出書機式
十六左ノ者八開票分會事務二從事タ
藏
出
名
市町村（地區）農地委員會委員候補者推四
職.
名
委員候補者氏
名
住所
開票分會長八此開票錄作開農立會人卜共二玆三署名ス
生年月日
昭和何年何月何日

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.82)
假いメん投票人数
何人何尺何人
歷地開整法第十五
同項第二號 國項第三戲
條八二第三項第一
投票練數卜投票人總數卜符合入投票練數卜投票人總數卜符合七大卽
號二陽スル者
二屬スん者
二國スル者
ナ投票練数比ン何票多し（少ン）（其ノ理由ノ明カナルそノへ之
開環立會人二於
何環
何
決定シメル投票敗
内
八投要分會二於チ拒否ノ決定ク受ケタん者とシテ假二投頭フ曰レタん
者左ノ如り
一有效ト決定レタんモノ
何
何
何
住所
出
名
一無效ト決定ンんモノ
何
出
名
内
成規ノ用紙
何
何頭
何票
開票分會長へ右ノ投票調査ン開票立會人左八通之っ決定シ
用ヒザルモノ
開票分會長八右ノ投製調査開票立會人ノ決定=付シタル可否
11
何票
何
何账
同數ナんニ依開環分會長左ノ通之っ決定ンタッ
何票
何票
何票
開票立會人ノ決定二付ンタルニ可否同數ナル
受理センモノ・
11
二依開票分會長二於テ決定シタル投票數
一事由何
何蒙
何
何
住
所
氏
名
内
事由何
所
名
一有效ト決定シタルモノ
何頭
何
何
受理セザリンモノ
一無效ト決定シタルモノ
何
何
何
一事由何
内
住所
名
成規ノ用紙っ
何票
何
何
用ヒザルモノ
九開票分會長へ（假ニ爲ンタル投環ンテ受理スペキモノト決定ンタ
何票
何票
何
ん投農ノ封簡ッ開披ンタん上總テノ投票ッ混同ン開票立會人ト共=
何票
何票
何票
三投票總數
十開票事務從事又ル職氏名及已職氏名二人八各別同一委員候補
内
者ノ得頭數ヲ計算ンタ
一有效ト決定ンタルモノ
何票
何
何
十一有数又へ無效卜決定ンタん投票ハ左ノ如ン
一無效卜決定ンタルモノ
何票
何
三七

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.85)
レタル者ノ中ョり臨詩二左ノ者ヲ開頭立會人二邇任シタ
投票分會長へ此投票錄作投票立會人卜共茲署名ス
住所
氏名
昭和何年何月何日
三開票分會八昭和何年河同日午助（午後）何時二之開
投票分會長
四開環立會人中氏名八一且參會ンタんモ午飽（午後）何時何々ノ事故
出
名
以其ノ職辭ンタル爲開票分會長臨時二開票分會ノ區闘內於ケ
投票立會人
ル當該區分二屬スル選撃人名簿二登錄セラレタル者ノ中日午前（午
名
後何時左ノ者開票立會人選任ン
出
名
住所
出
名
名
五開票分會區劉內各投票分會長投眾函等左如夕到著七
第一（何）投粟分會投票函八投票分會長職氏名及投票立會人氏名
像式二拐グん事項ノ外投票分會長二於う投票二關ン緊要ト詔ムん事
携帶シ何月何日午前（午後）何時著之檢スル二異狀十
項アルトキハ之ッ記載スペン
第二（何々）投票分會投票函何々
別記標式八五開票錄
六昭和何年何月何日開票分會長開票分會區翻內投票分會投
用市
昭和何年何月何日
農地委員會（何地區農地委員會）
票函ノ送致受ケタルっ以テ其ノ當日（翌日）午前（午後）何時
行
開票ク開始シタ
拳第一（何）開頭分會開頭錄
七開票分會長 開票立會人立會上逐次投票函開半投票總數卜投
一開頭分會八
何市役所
(何ノ場所)ェ之っ設ケメ
何町村役場
票人ノ總数ヲ計算レタルニ左ノ如ン
二左ノ投票立會人八何レ七開環分會開夕べキ時刻迄開票分會二
農地調整法第
十五條八二第 同項第一號 同項第三號
三項第一號二
二屬以ル者
二屬スル者
住所
氏名
屬スル者
住所
名
投票總數
何
何
何票
住所
投票人總數
何人
何人
何人
開票分會開夕べキ時刻至開票立會人中參會とザル者アん二依
外
開頭分會長八爲會七ザん者属スル區分二屬ン選舉人名鄉登錄七
假シタん投票數
何
何蒙
何票

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.86)
住所
氏名
最立會人可否同數十ん二依り投農分會長決定以投跟拒否
んモ間還華人於テ不服申立テル以テ（投則分會長又へ投票
十五午前（午後）何時二至り投票分會長へ投票時間夕終夕ん首告
立會人氏名於テ異識アリンヲ以テ投票用紙ト共二封簡ヲ交付ン假
ゲ投票分會場ノ入ロク鎖シタタ
十六午前（午後）何時投票分會場二在ル選舉人ノ投票結了ンタルヲ以
住所
氏名
投票分會長へ投票立會人卜共二投票函ノ內蓋ノ投票口及外蓋鎖
十一左ノ選舉人二對シテへ何々ノ事由二因授票立會人ノ決定以
投票立會人可否同數十ん依り投票分會長沃定以テ）點字投票
十七 投票函ッ閉鎖ンタルニ依リソノ内蓋ノ論へ左ノ投票立會人之ヲ保
管ン外蓋ノ論へ投票分會長之っ保管ス
住所
氏名
氏名
屬地調整法第
十二左ノ選舉人へ誤リテ投票用紙ヲ汚損シタル旨ヲ以テ更=之請求
十八
十五條八二第
同項第二號同項第三號
レタル依り其ノ相違ナキヲ認メ之ト引換投票用紙（封簡）ッ交付
三項第一號二
二屬スル者二屬スル者
屬スル者
投票ヲ爲ンタル選擊人ノ總數
何人
何人
何人
住所
氏名
内
十三左ノ選舉人へ投票分會場於テ演說討論爲（喧擬=涉）（投
選舉人名簿ノ抄本（又へ選
夏闘ン協議う爲ン（何々ッ爲ン）投票分會場ノ秩序ク案ンタル＝依
學人名簿二記載セラレタ
何人
何人何人
ル選舉人ニンテ投票ヲ爲シ
投農分會長ニ於テ之ッ制止ンタルモ其ノ命ニ從ハザルフ以テ投票用
タん者
紙（投票用紙及封簡（到著番號札）返付センメ之投環分會場外
確定裁決書三依り投票爲
何人
何人
何人
シタル者
退出センメタリ
住所
氏名
投票拒否ノ決定ヲ受ケタル者
何人
何人
何人
十四投票分會長八投票分會場外二退出命シタル左ノ選舉人對ン投
内
票分會場ノ秩序ク棄スノ與ナシト詔メ投票ッ爲サンメタリ
假二投農ク爲サンメタん者何人
何人
何人
住所
氏名
十九午前（午後）何時投巽分會ノ事務結了シタッ
投票分會樹於う投票分會外退出命シタん左ノ選舉人へ殺後入
二十左ノ者へ投票分會ノ事務=從事ンタ
職
氏
名
三五

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.85)
三四
出
名
四投票立會人中氏名八一旦參會シタルモ午前（午後）何時何々人事故
華立會人
以テ其ノ職辭シタル爲投農分會長へ臨時二投票分會ノ區劉内二於
名
ケル當該區分二屬スル選學人名簿二登錄七ラレタル者ノ中夕午前
4
名
（午後）何時左ノ者投票立會人二選任シ
住所
氏名
據式二揚グル事項ノ外還舉長二於子還舉會二關ン緊婆卜詔ムル事項
五投票分會長八投眾立會人卜共二投票二先投粟分會三參會之夕ル還
アルトキハ之ク記載スペシ
舉人ノ面前=於テ投票函ッ開キ其ノ空虚ナルコトヲ示ンタル後内蓋ヲ
別記線式八四投頭錄
鎖之投衆分會長及投票立會人ノ列席スル而前二之置キタ
与市
六投票分會長八投票立會人面前三於テ選舉人名簿抄本（又へ選舉
昭和何年何月何日
農地委員會（何地區島地委員會）
執
行
人名離二對照シタル後（到著裕號札卜引換二）投票用紙交付ンタ
七選母人へ自ラ投票認メ投票分會長及投票立會人ノ面前=於テ之
國舉第一（何）投票（分會投票）錄
何市役所
投函シタリ
一投票分會
役
（何ノ場所）ニ之っ設ケタリ
八左ノ選舉人へ選舉人名簿三登錄七ラルべキ確定裁決書所持之投票
二左投票立會人八何レモ投票分會開夕べキ時刻迄二投票分會二參
分會場ニ到リタルニ依リ投崇分會長へ之フシテ投票ヲ爲サンメタリ
住所
住
所
氏
名
九左ノ選聖人へ點字ニ依リ投祟ヲ爲サントスル旨ヲ申立テタルヲ以テ
住
名
投票分會長八投票甲紙二點宇投票十ル旨ノ印押捺ンテ交付之投票
氏
名
爲サンメタリ
投崇分會う開クべキ時刻二至リ投票立會人中參會七ザル者アル二依
住所
氏名
投農分會長へ投票分會ノ區副內二於ケル參會七ザル者ノ屬スル區分二
十左ノ選舉人=對ンテへ何々ノ事由三因リ投票立會人ノ決定プ以
屬い選舉人名簿二登錄セラレタル者ノ中ョリ臨時二左ノ者フ投票立會
（投票立會人可否同數十ル二依投票分會長ノ決定以テ）投票ヲ拒
人二選任ンタリ
否ンタリ
住所
氏名
住所
氏名
三投票分會昭和何年何月何日午前（午後）何時之開夕
左ノ選舉人二對ンテへ何々ノ事由三因リ投票立會人ノ決定ヲ以テ（投

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.85)
(+x
何
效ノ決定アタタル投票ニ在リテハ類別ン之ラ一括ン更二有效無效受理
何
スペカラズト決定シタル投票別之ヲ封簡ニ入レ選編立會人ト共封
何
印ッ施ンタリ
11
無效ト決定ンタルモノ
二十九選舉長選舉立會人立會上逐次開眾分會長報告調查之自
(2)×(0)(~)
何
開票ッ行ヒタル部分二付各委員候補者ノ得緊數朗讀シタん後開環
何票
分會每各委員候補者得疑朗讀終二各委員候補者得票總數
何聚
内
三十開票分會長報告 結果卜選舉會二於為～點檢 結果卜併
七タル各委員候補者ノ得農總數左ノ如
晨地調盤法第十五條二第三項第一號二屬又八者
二十六午前（午後）何時投票ノ點檢終りル以選舉長八各委員
何票
氏
名
候補者ノ得票っ朗讃シタリ
何
氏
名
二十七 各委負候補者 得票數左ノ如
何環
名
何
氏：名
何
氏
名
同項第三號二屬スル者
何票
名
何票
氏
名
何
出
名
何票
氏
名
何票
田
名
三十一午前（午後）何時選舉會ノ事務終了シタ
同項第三號三屬スん者
三十二左ノ者八選舉會事務二從事シタ
何票
出
名
氏名
何票
出
名
選舉長八此選舉錄作選舉立會人卜共二玆二署名ス
二十八 選舉長へ點檢濟ノ有效無效及受理スべカラメト決定ンタル投票
昭和何年何月何日
ヲ大別レ有效ノ決定アリタル投票二在リテへ得票者毎ニ之ッ區別ツ無
長
三三

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.85)
C
1三二1
何人
ん投環ノ封簡っ開披シタル上總テノ投票ヲ混同ン選學立會人卜共
十九各投票分會長日り投票函等左ノ如夕到著七
二十四選舉事務二從事又八職氏名及職氏名二人八各別二同一員侯
第一（何）投票分會投票函 投票分會長職氏名及投票立會人氏名
補者ノ投票數計算シタッ
機帶何月何日午前（午後）何時著之檢スル二異狀十レ
第二（何々）投環分會投票函何
二十五有效又へ無效卜決定ンタル投票へ左ノ如
二十昭和何年何月何日選舉長八總テノ投農函ノ送致受ケタル
一選舉立會人=於テ決定ンタル投票數
以其ノ當日（翌日午前（午後）何時り開票開始ンタリ
一有效ト決定シメルモノ
(x)(0)(~)
農地調整法第十五條二第三項第一號二屬又八者何環
二十一 遇舉長八選舉立會人立會上逐次投蹤兩開キ夕
何
二十二投農分會=於テ拒否ノ決定ヲ受ケタル者ニシテ假二投票爲
同項第二號二屬スル者
何票
同項第三號三屬スル者
タん者左ノ如ン
住
所
氏
名
無效ト決定ンタルモノ
何票
(2x^x～)
名
何票
選舉長へ右ノ投票調査之選舉立會人左ノ通決定シタ（選舉長八右
何
ノ投票ヲ調査ン選學立會人ノ決定=付シタルニ可否同數ナル二依リ選
奉長へ左ノ通決定ンタリ
内
受理センモノ
一成規ノ用紙ヲ用ヒザルモノ
(2)(日)(~)
何
一事由何
何
生
所
出
名
何
事由何
住
所
氏
名
二委員候補者二非ザル者ノ氏名ヲ記載シタルモノ
何票
受理セザリンモノ
二選羅立會人ノ決定二付シタル二可否同數十ル二依り遇舉長=於
一事由何々
住
所
氏
名
決定シタル投票數
一有效ト決定ンタルモノ
二十三還舉長へ假二爲ンタん投票ニンチ受理スペキモノト決定シタ

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.83)
長へ投票用紙點字投票ナル旨ノ印押掠シ交付ン投選ッ為
住
所
氏
名
十五午前（午後）何時二至り選舉長へ投票時間ガ終夕ル旨告ゲ遇
生
傘會場ノ人ロヲ鎖シタッ
十左ノ選華人二對ン何々ノ事由二因リ選舉立會人ノ決定以テ（選舉
十六 午前 午後）何時選舉會場二在ル選舉人ノ投票結了し２ルフ以
立會人可否同數ナルニ依り選舉長ノ決定ヲ以テ）投祟っ拒否ンタリ
選舉長八選舉立會人卜共三投票函內蓋投票口及外蓋領之夕
住所
氏名
十七投票函閉鎖シタル二因リ其ノ内盜ノ臨八左ノ選舉立會人之ヲ保
十一左ノ選華人二對ンテへ何々ノ事由三因9選撃立會人ノ決定ヲ以テ
管外盜ノ論へ選舉長之保管ス
（還事立會人可否同數十ル二依リ選舉長ノ決定以テ）點字投票拒
十八 投崇爲ンタル問舉人ノ總數
住
出
名
盤地調整法第十五條二第三項第一號二屬又ル者何人
十二左ノ選舉立會人へ誤リテ投票用紙（封簡）ヲ汚損シタル旨ヲ以テ
同項第二號二臨スん者
何人
更ニ之っ請求シタルニ依リ其ノ相違ナキフ認メ之ト引換二投票用紙
S
同項第三號三屬スル者
何人
（封箇）う交付シタッ
内
住
所
氏名
選舉人名簿二登錄セラレタル選舉人ニンテ投票フ爲シタル者
十三左ノ選舉人へ選舉會場二於演說討論爲（喧授=涉）（投票
(2)(日)(~)
何人
三闘ン論議ヲ爲ン（何々ッ爲ン）潤羅會場ノ秩序案シタル三依リ選
何人
摩長ニ於テ之制止シタルモ其ノ命＝從ハザルタ以テ投票用紙（到著
何人
番號札ッ返付センメ之タ選舉會場外ニ退出セシメタッ
確定決書二依リ投票っ爲シタル者
何人
(x)x口)(~)
住
所
名
何人
十四選舉長八潤舉會場外二退出ヲ命シ夕ル左潤舉人二對之選舉會場
2
何人
ノ秩序ヲ棄スノ遺ナント認メ投衆ヲ爲サシメタリ
4
住
氏
名
投票拒否ノ決定ヲ受ケタル者ノ結敗
選舉長於選舉會場外二退出ヲ命シタル左ノ選舉人八畢後二入場
(2)(日)
何人
何人
11

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.83)
10
2
住所
氏名
一還舉人名簿フ修正シタルトキ八抄本タ二修正ン其ノ旨及修正
選舉會開クペキ時刻二至リ選舉立會人中參會七ザル者アリン爲選舉
年月日フ欄外二記載ン職印ッ押捺スペシ
長八為會七ザル者ノ屬スル區分二屬ン選舉人名簿二登錄セラレタル
二抄本ノ表紙及卷末ニへ左ノ通記載スペシ
者ノ中ョリ臨時二午前（午後）何時左ノ者選舉立會人二選任夕
（表紙）
.9
住所
氏名
昭和何年何月何日現在調
三選舉會八昭和何年何月何日午前（午後）何時二之開キ夕
農地調整法第十五條八三第三項第一號（第二號）（第三號）
四選舉立會人中氏名八一旦參會夕ルモ午前（午後）何時何々ノ事故
二依ル市町村（地區）農地委員會選舉人名簿抄本
フ以テ其ノ發辭シタル二依リ選學長八臨時二當該區分二屬スル選翠
何府（縣）（東京都）（北海道）何市（何區）（何地區）何郡
人名簿二登錄七ラレタル者ノ中曰リ午前（午後）何時左ノ者選舉立
何町（何村）（何地医）
會人二選任シタリ
住
氏
名
(卷末)
五選舉長八選舉立會人卜共二投票三先子選舉會二參會之夕ル選舉人
此ノ選舉人名簿抄本八昭和何年何月何日確定八選舉人名簿二依
之ク調裂セリ
面前二於テ投票函ヲ開キ其ノ空臨ナルコトタ示シタル後内蓋フ鎖ン選
出
名印
舉立會人ノ列席スル而前ニ之ヲ置キタッ
別記機式八三選舉錄
六選舉長八選舉立會人ノ面前二於云選舉人ヲ選舉人名簿二對照之タん
时市
4
後（到著術號札卜引換二）投票用紙交付シタリ
昭和何年何月何日
最地委員會（何地區農地委貞會）
行
七選舉人八自投票認メ選舉長及選舉立會人ノ而前於テ之投函
國舉會舉錄
シタリ
何町村役場
何市役所
（何ノ場所）こ之フ設ケタタ
八左ノ選舉人八選舉人名簿三登錄七ラルべキ確定裁決書所持之選舉
二左ノ還舉立會人へ何レモ淵藥會ヲ開クべキ時刻迄三選聚會參會ン
會場二到リタル二依リ選舉長ハ之二投票爲廿ンメタリ
住
所
氏名
氏
名
九左ノ選舉人へ點字二依り投票ヲ爲サントスル旨フ申ン立テタルヲ以

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.83)
別記線式八一
七選舉人名簿八農地調整法第十五錄八二第三項各號八區分二從
市町村（地區）農地委員會選舉人名鄉
と各別冊フ以テ調製スペン
(表紙)
所有スル面積
耕作八業
氏名又八
住所
生年月日
務二供x
當該市町村當該市町村
名
昭和何年何月何日現在調
九面積
（地區）內（地區）外
慶地調整法第十五條八二第三項第一號（第二號）（第三號）
依ル市町村（地區）農地委員會選舉人名簿
何府（縣）（東京都）（北海道）何市（何區）（何地區）何郡何町
（何村）（何地區）
考
(卷末)
一決定裁決等二依リ名簿ク修正シタルトキ八其ノ旨及修正ノ年
此ノ選舉人名簿昭和何年何月何日何日間何市役所何町
月日フ欄外ニ記載ン職印ク捺印スペシ
二番號欄八農地う所有ン又へ耕作ノ業務ヲ營ム者トソ者ノ同
（村）役場（何ノ場所）二於テ縱覽七ンメ昭和何年何月何日以
居ノ戶主又八家族卜フ連續番號卜スべ
云確定（昭和何年何月何日作製）七リ
三前號=依リ連續記載シタル場合二於テ八農地ノ面積八連續記
名印
戴セクレタル者全員ノ所有シ又へ耕作ノ業務二供スル2地ノ合
別記機式ノ二
計面積ヲ其ノ最初ノ者ノ欄ノミニ記載ン他ノ者ノ欄八空欄トス
市町村（地區）農地委員會選舉二用八選舉人名簿抄本
べン農地調監法第十五條ノ二第四項人特別ノ事由二因リ同居七
所有スル面積
耕作八業
ザルニ至リタル者アルトキ八其ノ所有スル農地ノ面寶へ前項ノ
住所
生年月日
務二供ス
富該市町村當該市町村
ル面積
合計面統=加算スべン
（地區）內（地區）外
四所有ン又へ耕作ノ業務二供スル農地ノ面積へ町段畝ヲ以
テ示ン試以下へ切捨ッペン
五法人二在ッテ八生年月日ノ欄へ空欄トスペン
六名簿ノ表紙及卷末ニへ左ノ通記載スペン
二九

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.89)
二八
第三十八條市町村農地委員會ノ委良八選舉二關入八選舉錄、投票錄及
都市、大阪市、横濱市、名古屋市及神戶市二在テ八地方長官ノ指定
開票錄へ別記機式ノ三乃至五依之調製スべ
スル區又八區長之ヲ適用ス
第三十九條委貞候補者ノ屆出書若へ推薦屆出書又八委員侯補者ん
附則
トッ辭スルコトノ屆出遊及選學立會人投題立會人又へ開票立會人タ
第一條この規則は昭和二十一年十一月二十二日から、これを施行す
ルペキ者ノ屆出書へ別記様式ノ六っ依ッ之っ調製スペン
る。
第四十條第二十條乃至第三十六條及前二條八規定八都道府縣慶地委員
第二條昭和二十一年勅令第五五六號附則第二項の市町村農地委員會の
會八選舉二之準用ス但第十九條第三十三條乃至第三十五條中市
選舉に關しては、市町村長は昭和二十一年農林省令第五八號による報
町村長トアルへ地方長官トス
告に基いて選撃人名簿を作成することができる。この場合において市
第四十一條①市町村農地委員會ヲ設置シタル市町村ガ左ノ各號ノ一
町村長は同令に基く報告者の報告を修正させ又は職權で修正すること
該當スル場合二於テ八地方長官八農林大臣ノ承認受ケ當該市町村農
ができる。
地委員會ッ殿止スルコトヲ得
第三條①昭和二十一年法律第四十二號附則第三項の規定により地方長
一地面積著ンク少キ二至リタルトキ
官の許可を受けようとする者は第十四條各號に掲げる事項を記載した
二其ノ他特別ノ事情アルニ至リタルトキ
申請書を地方長官に提出しなければならない。
②前項ノ場合＝於テへ地方長官へ之ク公示スペン
②前項の申請は、當該農地の所在する市町村に設置されてるる市町
第四十二條都道府縣農地委貞會ノ委員選任三付テ農林大臣八地方
村農地委員會を経由してこれをしなければならない。
長官ノ意見ヲ徴スルモノトス
③前項の場合において、市町村農地委員會は運滞なく意見を附しこ
第四十三條①農地調整法第十七條規定二依地方長官當該官吏
れを地方長官に進達することを要する。
テ臨檢檢査ヲ爲サシムル場合ニ於テへ其ノ身分ッ示ス證票ヲ携帶セン
②前項ノ證票へ別記様式ノ七=依ル
第四十四條本則中町村又八町村長二關スル規定八町村組合=ンチ町村
ノ事務ノ全部又へ役場事務ヲ共同處理スルモノノ存スル地在テハ
町村組合又八組合管理者=町村制施行七ザル地二在リテ八之二準
スルモノニ、市又へ市長三關スル規定へ東京都ノ區ノ存スル區城京

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.79)
inx
會場（又へ投環分會場）會ンタん選華人面前二於投票函開
第三十一條①選舉長（又八開票分會長）八投眾有效無效區別各
キ其ノ空虚ナルコトラ示シタル後内蓋ヲ鎖スペシ
之封簡二入し選舉立會人又へ開眾立會人八全員卜共二封印施べ
第二十三條選學長（又八投票分會長）八選舉立會人（又八投票立會人）
心
八面前二於デ選華人選翠人名簿（又へ選舉人名簿ノ抄本）對照
②受理スべカラスト決定シタル投票へ其ノ封簡開波七ス前項ノ例二
タル後投農用紙（假投票爲サシムペキ選舉人二對シテ八併七テ封
依リ封印ヲ施スペン
簡）ッ交付スペン
第三十二條①委貞候補者ノ届出又八推認相出八文書以テ之爲ン委
第二十四條選舉人誤リテ投票ノ用紙又八封筒ヲ汚損シタルトキ八其
員候補者夕ルべキ者ノ氏名又八名稱、住所生年月日及農地調整法第
引換ヲ請求スルコトヲ得
十五條二第三項各號ノ別（推薦相出場合二於チ八併七テ推薦相出
第二十五錄投農八選舉長（又八投票分會長）及選舉立會人（又八投票
者ノ氏名又八名稱、住所及生年月日記載スべ
立會人ノ面前=於テ選舉人自う之ス投函スべン
②委員候補ぐタルコトヲ辭スルコトノ相出ハ文書フ以之フ爲スペン
第二十六條選學人投票前選舉會場（又八投票分會場）外二退出又八
第三十三條開粟分會設ケタル卜キ八市町村長八豫委員候補者ノ氏
退出命ゼラレタルトキへ選學長（又へ投票分會長）八投票用紙（交
名又八名稱住所生年月日農地調整法第十五條二第三項各號
付シタル簡アルトキハ併セテ封筒ヲ返付セシムベシ
別其他必要十八事項當該開粟分會長二通知又べ委良候補者委員
第二十七條投票函八其閉鎖後遇舉長（又八開票分會長）二送致為
候補者タルコト・辭シタルトキ又ハ其ノ死亡シタルコトフ知リタルト
ノ外之ッ會場外ニ搬出スルコトヲ得ズ
キ亦同ッ
第二十八條投票點檢スル卜キ八選舉長八選舉會ノ事務二從事スル者
第三十四條 委貞候補者屆出若八推四屈出又八委貞候補者タ八コ卜
二人フンテ各別二同一委員候補者ノ得票數計算センムペン
辭スルコトノ屆出受理シタルトキハ市町村長へ直二其ノ受理ノ年月
第二十九條前條ノ計算終タル卜キ八選舉長八各委員候補者ノ得票
日時っ屈出書ノ餘白三記載スべッ
朗識スペン
第三十五條投票用紙八農地調整法第十五條八二第三項各號八區分二從
第三十條①節二條ノ規定八開票分會設ケル場合二於ケル開票=之
ピ臨別且ッ市町村長ノ定ムル所三依リ一定ノ用式ッ用フべン
っ準用ス
第三十六條點字投票十八旨印八投票用紙及封簡ノ表面三之押掠
②開票分會ッ設ケタル場合ニ於テへ選聚長八自ラ開環行ヒタル部分
ぐ
三付各委員候補者得票數？朗讀夕ル後開票分會每各委員候補者
第三十七條市町村農地委員會選聚三用八選舉人名類及其ノ抄本
ノ得頭數朗讀ン終リ二各委員候補者ノ得票總數朗題スべ
別記様式ノ一及二依リ之調製スべ
1二七

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.84)
二四
t
規定依ル寶渡ノアリタル土地以外ノ巖地ニ付テノ耕作フ目的トスル
地委員會ヲ經由ンテ之ヲ爲スペン
貫借護父へ使用貸借=依ル禮利ッ除夕ぅ取得セントスル者ガ農地調
③前項ノ場合二於テ市町村農地委員會へ運滯十ク意見附シ之ヲ地方
整法施行令第二條第一項ノ規定二依リ許可受ケントスルトキハ左=
長官ニ進達スルコトッ要ス
揚グル事項ッ記載ンん申請書っ當該農地ノ所在スル都道府縣ノ地方
第七條①農地調整法第七條自作農創設維持事榮二依創設又八維
長官提出スペシ
持セラレタル自作地ニ付抵當權設定セットスル者ガ同法施行令第二
一申請者及契約ノ相手方ノ氏名、住所及職榮（法人二在テへ名稱
條第一項ノ規定二依リ認可フ受ケントスルトキハ左ニ揚グル事項ヲ記
較ンタル申請書當該農地ノ所在スル都道府縣ノ地方長官三提出スべ
主ん事務所ノ所在地、粟務種類及代表者ノ氏名
二當該屬地所在、地番、地目土地豪帳地目ガ土地現況卜異
2
ルトキ八土地帳ノ地目及現況依ル地目以下同面積、利用
一申請者ノ氏名及住所
狀況及普通收變高竝三當該疊地力屬地調整法第七條八自作農創設維
二當該農地所在、地番、地目及面積
持ノ事榮ニ依リ創設又へ維持セラレタル農地ナルトキハ其ノ旨
三契約締結ノ相手方及契約ノ內容
三契約諦結ノ事由及其八內容
四其ノ他參考卜爲ルべキ事項
②前項申請 農地調整法第七條ノ自作盤創設維持事業行っ者
四契約ノ當事者ノ世帶（同居ノ月主又八家族謂フ以下同）=於
（本條中以下事業者卜稱ス）經由シチ之ク爲スペン
所有スル農地ノ面積、耕作ノ榮務供スル農地ノ面積、其ノ世帶
員ノ狀態及其ノ世帶二於テ農榮二從事スル者ノ員數
③前項ノ場合二於テ事榮者八運滯十夕意見附ン之地方長官二進達
スルコトヲ要ス
五當該屬地ヲ耕作以外ノ目的二供ス為二必要卜スル事藥又 施設
前三項規定八農地調整法第十九條第一項八自作地二付同條第二項
ノ概要及建築物其ノ他ノ工作物設置セントスル場合＝於チへ其
ノ規定ニ依ル認可ヲ受ケントスル場合ニ之ッ準用ス
規模ノ概要
六當該農地耕作以外ノ目的二供スコ卜二因附近農地又へ作
第八條自作農創設特別指置法第十六條又八第四十一條第一項規定
物ニ及ボスコトアルべキ被害ノ防除施設ノ概要
依ル賣渡ノアリタル土地以外ノ農地ニ付テノ耕作ヲ目的トスル農地ノ
七當該屬地耕作以外ノ目的二供七ントスルトキ八當該農地ノ耕作
貸借權又へ使用貸借二依ル權利取得七ントスル者ガ農地調整法施行
者ノ離作ニ對ン探うントスル處置
令第二條第二項ノ規定二依リ承認受ケントスルトキ八第六條第一項
八其ノ他參考卜爲ルべキ本項
第一號乃至第四號及第八號二揭グル事項記載シタル申請書當該農
②前項ノ申請へ當該農地ノ所在スル市町村ェ設置セラレタル市町村農
地ノ所在スル市町村二設置セラレタル市町村農地委員會二提出スペン

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.84)
エザルモハナルコト
三農地調整法施行規則
四資金ノ貸付二依ル場合於テ八貸付利率八年三分二厘以下二レテ
昭和二十一年一月二十八日農林省令第四號
償還期間八据置期間除キ原則トシテ二十四年ナルモノナルコト
改正昭和二十一年十一月二十二日農林省令第六十八號
五代金割賦支拂ノ方法=依ル場合二於テへ前號例二依んコ
第一條市町村農地委員會必要ア卜認ル卜キへ農地調整法第三條第
②農地調整法施行令第十條事業行團體同條第九號乃至第十一號
一項 團體中同條第一項ノ規定二依八農地管理又八買取ノ申出為
ノ事榮ク行ハントスル場合二於テ八前項各號=依ルノ外左ノ各號二依
スペキ團體ッ指定スルコトヲ得
ルコトヲ婆ス
第二條地調整法第三條第一項八規定二依農地 所有者又八耕作者
一取得シテ議渡スべキ土地二在リテ八取得後五年內二開發シテ讓
ガ農地ノ管理又へ買取ノ申出ヲ爲スコトッ得ルへ疾病ノ外家蘇ノ死亡
渡べキ土地在リテへ開發完了後遲滯ナク自作農創設ノ爲二之
又へ自己若八家族ノ就學其ノ他已ムヲ得ザル事由=因リ自ラ耕作ン又
讓渡スコト但ン地方長官ノ承認ヲ受ケタルトキハ此ノ限ニ在ラス
へ管理スルコト館ハザル場合トス
二取得シテ護渡スペキ土地又へ開發シテ調渡スペキ土地へ前號=依
第三條農地調整法第三條第一項ノ國證同項ノ事榮ッ爲サントスルトキ
ル讓渡二依自作農創設爲迄期間其ノ土地ノ管理ノ為二スル
へ市町村農地委員會ノ審議經テ規程定メ之っ地方長官三相出ッべ
場合除クノ外之二付物權設定ン其ノ他自作農ノ創設人障碍卜為
ルペキ行爲爲スコトヲ得ザルコト但レ地方長官ノ承認ヲ受ケタル
第四條①農地調整法第七條自作農創設維持事榮八左各號二依儿
トキへ此ノ限=在ラス
コトッ要ス
三建設シ又へ取得シテ護渡スべキ自作地ノ利用二必要ナル施設三付
一創設又へ維持セラルル者へ農藥二精進ン得ル見込アル者ナルコト
テ八前二號例二、共ノ他ノ自作地ノ利用二必要方ル施設=付テ八
二創設又八維持七ラルル者ノ盤地ノ面積へ自作為創設特別指置法第
前統ノ例二依ルコト
三條第一項第三號 第二項及第三項八面積超ェザルモノナルコト
第五條農地調整法施行令第十條事業行團體又八市町村農地委員
但ン市町村島地委員會ガ相當卜認メタルモノ及自作農創設特別指置
會盤地調整法第七條ノ自作農創設維持ノ本榮ヲ行ハントスルトキ八地
法第四十一條第一項ノ規定三依寶渡スモノ二付テ八此ノ限二在う
方長官ノ定ムル所二依リ其ノ承認ヲ受クべン承認ク受ケタル事薬三付
K
重大ナル雙更ヲ爲サントスルトキ亦同ジ
三維持セラルル者ガ借替ヲ爲サントスル償務額ハ其ノ者ノ所有スル
第六條①地所有權、地上極、永小作榴、質極、負借權及使用貸借
農地ノ農地調整法第六條二乃至第六條四規定二依八價格超
二依八禮利（自作農創設特別指置法第十六條又八第四十一條第一項
111

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.88)
1111
第四十五條①農地面積著ンク少キ市町村其ノ他特別 事由アル市町村
同年二月 日日リ之施行ス
ニンテ地方長官ガ農林大臣ノ承認ッ受ケラ指定スルモノニハ市町村農
第二項乃至第四項省略）
地委員會っ置カズ
○農地調整法第十九條八自作農創設維持事榮二關之テ八從前農地調
①地方長官八前項ノ規定二依市町村農地委員會置力ザル市町村
整法施行令第三十五路八例三依八
名稱っ公示スペン
附則（昭和二十一年勅令第五百五十六號）
第四十六條①市町村ノ區域又八當該區域内ノ農地面積ガ著ンク大大ル
①この勅令は昭和二十一年十一月二十二日から、これを施行す
市町村其ノ他特別ノ事情アル市町村二付テ八地方長官八當該區域二
②農地調整法の改正規定により行ふ市町村農地委員會の委員の最初の
以上ノ地區二分チ各地區二地區殿地委員會置クコトヲ得
選聖は、昭和二十一年十二月中に、都道府縣農地委員會の委員の最初の
②地方長官前項ノ規定二依り地區農地委員會ヲ設ケタル卜キ八其ノ地
互選は、當該都道府縣の區城内の市町村に設置されるべき市町村農地委
區及名稱っ公示スペン
員會のすべてにつき委員の選舉があつた後に運滞なくこれを行はなけれ
①本令中市町村農地委員會二關又ル規定八前項地區股地委員會二之
ばならない。
適用ス
特別の事由があるときは、地方長官は、農林大臣の承認を受けて、
第四十七條農林大臣又八地方長官八市町村農地委員會又八都道府縣農
前項の規定にかかはらず、都道府縣農地委員會の委員の最初の互選を行
地委負會二對之監督上必要十ル命令又八處分爲スコトヲ得
ふことができる。
第四十八條農地調整法及同法二基夕命令二依八地方長官公示八東京
第二項の選舉に闘しては、名簿の調製、縱覽、確定、異議の決定及
都令、北海道應令又へ府縣令ノ公布卜同一ノ方法三依リ之ッ爲スペン
び訴願の提起に關する期日及期間は、地方長官が、これを定める。
第四十九條本令中町村又八町村長三關スル規定八町村組合二シテ町村
市町村農地委員會の最初の會議は、市町村長がこれを招集する。
ノ事務ノ全部又八役場事務ヲ共同處理スルモノノ存スル地二在リテへ
昭和二十一年法律第四十二號附則第三項の時期は、昭和二十二年十
町村組合又へ組合管理者三、町村制施行七ザル地二在リテ八之二準
月三十一日とす
スルモノニ市又へ市長ニ關スル規定へ東京都ノ區ノ存スル區域京
都市、大阪市、橫濱市、名古屋市及神戶市三在テ八地方長官ノ指定
スル區又へ區長二之ヲ適用ス
一
附則（昭和二十一年勅令第三十八號）
①本令中第十五條規定八昭和二十一年四月一日日其他部分八

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.84)
③還舉委貫會八都道府縣農地委員會員選舉二關地方長官二意
ヲ公示スペン投榮分會ク設クル場合ニ於テ八併七テ其ノ區罰ヲ公示ス
見っ述べ且其諸問二園ズ
①委員八地方長官三於于市町村農地丞員會委員八中リ發地調盤法
②總選舉二於ケル各選舉區ノ投票八同日時二之ッ行っ
第十五條ノ二第三項各號區分母夫一人選任ス
第四十三條第十九條第二十條第二十五條八四第二項第三項、第二
①委員市町村農地委員會ノ委員ノ職フ失フニ至ぅタルトキ八其ノ職
十五條八五、第二十五條八六第三項乃至第十三項 第二十五條八七
失っ
第二十五條八八、第二十五條八十乃至第二十五條八十七、第二十五條
○地方長官第三項ノ選任又八第六項二於準用又八第十七條八二第五
八十八第一項乃至第四項第五項本文、第二十五條八十九乃至第二十五
項但書解任爲二八都道府縣農業會又へ當該都道府縣ノ區域地
條二十一第二十六條乃至第二十八條及第二十九條乃至第三十八條
區卜シテ耕作者ノ團體ノ組檢スル剛體其ノ他地方長官二於テ農地調整
ノ規定へ都道府縣農地委貞會付之準用ス但シ市町村長トアルへ地
法第十五條二第三項各號ノ一二該當スル者ノ利益代表スルモノト
方長官、地方長官卜丁八八農林大臣、第二十五條八五第二項中選舉人
認メタル國造ノ意見ク聰クコトヲ要ス
名簿二登錄七ラレタル者卜アリ又八第二十五條第三項中自己ノ登錄七
第十七條八二第三項、第五項及第六項八規定八選舉委員會二付之
ラレタル選舉人名簿二登錄セラレタル者トアルハ農地調整法第十五條
準用ス但ン第五項中市町村長トアル八地方長官トス
八十四第三項第一號乃至第三號八一揚グ八互選人第二十五條八六
第四十條三①地方長官八農地調整法第十五條八十四第三項第一號乃
第十三項中分會八區副每二調整之タル選舉人名簿ノ抄本二登錄七ラレ
至第三號ノ規定二依ル互選三付選舉區ヲ設クルコトッ得
タル者卜アル八分會ノ區副內二於ケル農地調整法第十五條八十四第三
②地方長官選舉區設ケタル卜キ八選舉區 數及其ノ區域竝二各選舉
項第一號乃至第三號八一二揭八互選人第二十五條八十五第一項
區選出又八農地調整法第十五條八十四第三項第一號乃至第三號
第二十五條八十六第一項及第三十一條中第十五條八二第三項各號卜
委自ノ数ヲ公示スペン
九八第十五條八十四第三項第一號乃至第三號卜又
①互選人へ住所依り所屬ノ選舉區っ定
第四十四條農地調整法第十五條二第三項各號 區分八何七力二付被
第四十一條①遇舉長八地方長官ノ指定スル官吏ヲ以チ之二充
選舉權省數同條第六項二規定スル定數三滿夕ザル市町村二設置七ラ
②選舉長へ選舉會三關スル事務擔任ス
九べキ市町村選地委貞會三付テ八地方長官八同條第六項二規定スル委
第四十二條①地方長官八選舉期日前十日目迄 選舉會場、投票日
員ノ定數減ジ又八同條第三項、第八項及第九項ノ規定二拘う大當該
時及選舉スべキ委員數（選舉區丁ル場合二八各選舉區二於選事
區分二屬スル者二就キ選舉七ラルペキ委曰二代ル委員ヲ選任スルコト
十農地調監法第十五條八十四第三項第一號乃至第三號八委員八數
っ得
111
，

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.86)
110
第二十九條町村翻第二十二條第六項及市制町村制施行令第十一條八規
第三十二條ノ規定三依り事務ノ處理ヲ撥任スル委員八承認受ヶ代理
定八市町村發地委員會ノ委貝ノ選舉二之準用ス但シ市制町村制施行
人クンテ出頭セシメ又ハ輔佐人ヲ同伴スルコトッ得
令第十一條第三項中市制第二十五條八三又八町村制第二十二條八三卜
②市町村農地委員會又八第三十二條ノ規定二依事務ノ處理擔任ス
アル八第二十五條八十同令第十一條第四項中市制第二十七條八二第
ん委員へ何時ニテモ前項ノ承認ヲ取消スコトッ得
二項及第三項又八町村制第二十四條八二第二項及第三項卜丁ル八第二
第三十六條①市町村農地委員會事務處理三關當事者申出二因
十五條八十一第三項及第四項、市制第二十五條八三第二項及第四項又
特別ノ行爲爲シタル爲要ンタル喪用二付市町村長八地方長官ノ定
八町村制第二十二條八三第二項及第四項卜ア八八第二十五條八十第二
ムル所ニ依リ其ノ寶費ヲ徵スルコトヲ得
項及第三項卜ス
②前項ノ場合二於テへ市町村長八其ノ費用豫納セシムルコトヲ得
第三十條①市町村農地委員會ノ會長へ會務總理會代表ス
第三十七條前條第一項ノ規定二依徵收シタル費用 市町村ノ收入卜
③會長事故アルトキ八委自二於テ互選ン其ノ選二當リタル者其ノ職務
x
っ代理ス
第三十八條小作官又八自作農則設維持其他農地三關又八事務二從事
第三十一條市町村農地委員會二於云農地調整法第十五條二第三項各
スル官吏八市町村農地委員會ノ會議三出席シ日意見ヲ述プルコトヲ得
號ノ區分ノ何レカノ一ニ付委貞ナキトキハ會議ヲ開クコトク得ズ但ン
第三十九條農地調整法第十五條八十三第二項第二號規定二依同號
特別ノ事由二因リ地方長官ノ認可ヲ受ケタルトキハ此ノ限ニ在ラズ
ノ事項ヲ定ムルコト左ノ如シ
第三十二條市町村農地委員會必要アリト認ムルトキ八重要子ル事項
一小作關係相隣關係其他農地利用關係三關又九韓旋及爭議
除クノ外委貞ヲンテ其ノ事務ノ處理ヲ撥任センムルコトヲ得
防止
第三十三條①市町村農地委貞會必要アッ卜認ムルトキ八書記又へ補助
二農地ノ交換分合其ノ他選地事情改善三關スル事項
買ッ壇クコトス得
三第十五條第二項ノ規定二依市町柯選地委員會ノ申出アリタル事
②書記へ會長ノ指揮承ヶ庶務從事ス
项
第三十四條市町村農地委員會又八第三十二條八規定二依事務八處理
四其ノ他農地關係ノ調整三關農林大臣ノ命ズル事項
擔任スル委貴へ事務ノ處理ノ爲必要アリト認ムルトキ八期日及場所
第四十條都道府縣農地委員會委員選舉三關又八事務八地方長官之
ヲ定メ當事者ヲ呼出シ又ハ利書闘係人ノ參加ク求ムルコトッ得
ヲ管理ス
第三十五條①詔條ノ場合二於テ八當事者又八利害關係人八自身出頭入
第四十條二①都道府縣二都道府縣農地委員選舉委員會（以下本條
ルコトヲ要ス但ン特別ノ事情アル場合ニ於テへ市町村農地委員會又へ
於テ選舉委員會ト稱ス）っ置ク

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.82)
トス
之二關係丁ん選舉又當選三關又ル異議申立期間異踐決定確定
第二十五條ノ十九當選者定マリタル卜キ八市町村長八直二當選者二當
セザル間又へ訴題ノ裁決アル迄ハ之ヲ行フコトフ得ズ
選ノ旨告知同時當選者ノ住所及氏名又へ名稱公示シ日選舉錄
⑥委員八選舉又へ當選=關スル決定確定之又八裁決アル迄へ會議二列
八為（投票錄又八開粟錄アルトキ八併七テ投票錄又八開票錄ノ寫）
席ン議事二參興スルノ権ッ失ハズ
添へテ之ヲ地方長官報告スペン當選者ナキトキハ直ニ其ノ旨ク公示
第二十七條①選舉無效卜確定ンタルトキハ一月内二更二選舉行フべ
且還學錄ノ寫（投業錄又八開票錄アル卜キ八併七テ投票錄又へ開票
錄ノ宮ヲ添へ之ク地方長官二報告スペン
②當選無效卜確定ンタルトキ八直二選舉會ヲ開キ更二當選者定ムペ
第二十五條ノ二十選擊ノ規定=遺反スルコトアルトキ八選舉八結果二
ン此ノ場合=於テ八市町村長へ豫メ選舉會ノ場所及日時公示スペ
異動フ生ズルノ與アル場合二限り其ノ全部又ハ一部ヲ無效トス但ン當
③當選者十キ卜キ又八當選者其ノ選舉二於ケル委員ノ定數二達七ザル
遷二異動フ生ズルノ處ナキ者ヲ區分ン得ルトキハ其ノ者ニ限り當選ヲ
トキハ一月内ニ更二選舉行フべン
失フコトナン
①第一項及前項ノ期間八前條第四項ノ規定ノ適用アル場合二於テ入選
第二十五條ノ二十一選舉八一部無效卜ナリ更二選聚ッ行ヒタル場合二
聖ヲ行フコトヲ得ザル事由已ミタル日ノ翌日ョリ之ヲ起算ス
於八選舉長へ第二十五條八十八第四項八規定三準其ノ部分二付同
第二十八條第二十條第二項八補闕選舉又八前條第一項若八第三項八選
項ノ手護ッ爲ン他ノ部分=於ケル各委賞候補者ノ得票數卜併心テ其
舉ヲ同時＝行フ場合ニ於テハ一ノ選舉ヲ以テ合併シテ之ヲ行フ
得呉總數っ計算スべン
第二十八條八二 農地調整法第十五條八九第二項八選舉權有ス九者
第二十六條①選舉人又八委員候補者選舉又八當遇效力關異議了
二分一八數八同法第十五條二第三項各號八區分每選舉人名離臨
ルトキ八選舉二關シテ八選舉ノ期日ョリ當選二關シテ八第二十五條
定後直=市町村長三於テ之ッ公示スペン
ノ十九ノ公示ノ日ョリ七日内ニ之ク市町村長二申立ッルコトク得此
第二十八條八三 ①盤地調整法第十五條八九第二項ノ規定二依八請求了
場合二於テ八市町村長八其ノ申立ヲ受ケタル日ヨリ十四日内二之ヲ決
リタルトキ八市町村長八運溜ナク其ノ旨ッ公示スルト共二市町村農地
定スペン
委貴會二通知スべン
②前項ノ決定=不服アル者へ地方長官=訴願スルコトヲ得
②市町村長前項ノ公示ヲ爲シタルトキハ其ノ日ョリ二週間以內=同項
③前二項ノ場合二於テ八市町村長決定爲ン又へ地方長官裁決爲
ノ請求三係ル委員ノ選舉ヲ行フペン
タルトキハ直ニ其ノ要領ヲ公示スペン
③第一項ノ公示アリタルトキ八同項ノ請求二係ル委員八共ノ公示ノ日
①第二十條第二項八補闕選舉又八第二十七條第一項若八第三項八選舉
二其ノ職ッ失フ
一九

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.84)
二六
二當該屬地所在地番地目及面積竝 利用狀況及普通收證高
二申請ヲ爲ンタル市町村農地委員會ノ名稱
三許可ヲ受ケントスル事由
三認可ヲ爲シタル小作料ノ額又八減免條件其ノ他島地ノ貫貸借若へ
四當該農地ノ小作料其ノ他契約ノ內容
永小作又八之二附隨スル契約條件
五許可ッ受ケントスル小作料竝=其ノ適用ノ時期及期間
四認可ヲ爲シタル小作料等ッ適用スべキ農地ノ所在
六其ノ他參考卜爲んべや事項
第十八條 農地調整法第九條八七八規定二依同法第九條八二乃至第九
③前項ノ申請八當該農地ノ所在スル市町村二設置セラレタル市町村島
條ノ六ノ規定準用スル農地ノ負貸借若八永小作又八之=附隨スル契
地委員會ッ經由ンテ之ッ爲スペン
約條件ヲ定ムルコト左ノ如シ
③前項ノ場合=於テ市町村陽地委員會八運滯ナク意見ッ附ン之ヲ地方
負貸借又八永小作存續期間、改良費負擔公租公課負擔小作
長官ニ進達スルコトフ要ス
料ノ支拂條件、農地貸借人又へ永小作權資（本條中以下借主卜稱ス）
第十六條市町村農地委員會農地關整法第九條八四第一項八規定又八同
ガ農地ノ貸貸人又へ永小作檀ノ目的夕ル農地ノ所有者（本條中以下貸
條第五項三於テ準用スル同項ノ規定ニ依リ認可ッ受ケントスルトキへ
主卜稱二提供スル勞務=關スル條件、偕主ガ貸主二給付スル權利
左三揚グル事項ッ記載シタル申請書三委員會ノ決議錄ノ勝本ヲ添附ン
金其ノ他ノ財産上ノ利益三關スル條件
之ヲ地方長官二提出スペシ
第十九條農地調整法施行令第二十一條八規定二依選舉人八每年十月
一決定ノ理由及經過
一日ノ現在二依同月十日迄（同令第二十四條第一項規定三依調
二 决定方法
製スル名簿二係ル申告二在リテ八地方長官ノ定ムル期日ノ現在二依
三決定七ントスル小作料ノ額又へ滅免條件其ノ他農地ノ貸貸借若八
地方長官ノ定ムル期日迄二左二揚グル事項市町村長二申告スペシ
永小作又へ之=附隨スル契約條件
一氏名又八名稱
四決定爲シタル小作料等適用スべキ農地所在、地番、地目及
二住所
面
三生年月日
五其ノ他參考卜爲ルべキ事項
四所有ン又へ耕作ノ衆ヲ營ム機地ノ面積
第十七條晨地關整法第九條八四第三項八規定又八同條第五項、同法第
第二十條投與分會長（又八開票分會長）八投票立會人（又八開票立會
九條ノ五第三項及同法第九條ノ七二於テ準用スル同項ノ規定二依ル公
人）定マリタルトキへ直ニ之ヲ選舉長二通知スペン
示へ左二揚グル事項ニ付之ヲ爲スペシ
第二十一條投票函八二重ノ蓋造り各別二鎖論設クべン
一可八年月日
第二十二條選舉長（又八投票分會長）八投崇ヲ爲廿ンムル二先チ選舉

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.85)
第九條晨林大臣又八地方長官八農地調整法施行令第十餘自作農創設
第十二條屬地調整法第六條八三第一項規定二依地方長官率又八額
維持事業っ行っ圓體對ン同條ノ事業闘ン監督上必要十ん命令又
ク定メントスルトキへ農林大臣ノ承認ヲ受クペン
ハ分ッ為スコトッ得
第十三條為地調整法第六條ノ四第一項八規定二依認可受ケン卜ス
第十條地所有者貫借人永小作人其他權限基十地耕作
者第十一條第一號乃至第三號及第五號乃至第十號二揭グ八事項
スルコトラ得ル者ニンテ共ノ農地ッ耕作以外ノ目的ニ供セントスルモ
記載シル申請書當該島地ノ所在スル都道府縣ノ地方長官提出ス
ノ地調整法施行令第五條ノ規定=依リ許可ッ受ケントスルトキへ第
六條第一項第一號、第二號及第五號乃至第八號二揚少八事項記載
第十四條農地調整法第九條第三項ノ規定二依承認受ケントスル者
ル申請書ヲ當該農地ノ所在スル都道府縣ノ地方長官二提出スペ
貸貸借ノ解除、解約又へ更新拒絕ノ通知若八條件ヲ愛更スル=非ず
第十一條晨地調整法第六條八二第一項但書八規定二依許可受ケ
レべ更新セザル旨ノ通知ヲ發スル日ョリ一月前迄二左二損グル事項
トスル者へ左ニ揚グル事項ヲ記載シタル申請書ヲ當該農地ノ所在スル
記載シタル申請書ヲ農地ノ所在スル市町村ニ設置セラレタル市町村農
都道府縣地方長官三提出スべ
地委員會三提出スペン
一申請者及讓渡又八讓受相手方氏名、住所及職業（法人二在
一第六條第一項第一號第二號及第四號二揭グ九事項
八其ノ名稱主夕ル事務所ノ所在地、藥務種類及代表者ノ氏名
二貫貸借契約ノ內容
二當該屬地ノ所在、地番、地目及面積
三貸貸借ノ解除解約又へ更新ノ拒絕爲サントスル事情ノ詳細
三許可受ケントスル事由
四貫貸借ノ解約ヲ爲サントスルトキ八當該農地ノ引渡ヲ受ケントス
四當該農地貸貸價格竝二減租年期丁ル場合二於テ八其ノ年期始
ん時期
期及終期
五期間ノ定アル貸貸借契約=付條件變更スル二非ザレべ當該契約
五當該地水利、交通良否、利用狀況及普通收覆高竝=小作地
ノ更新ヲ拒マントスルトキハ鎖更セントスル條件ノ内容
ナル場合二於チ八小作料ノ額及減免條件
六其ノ他參考卜爲ルべキ事項
六言該地ガ永小作地ナル場合=於テ八氷小作權價格
第十五條①農地調整法第九條ノ三但書ノ規定二依り許可受分ン卜ス
七當該農地=付小作樓賣買ノ慣習アル場合三於テへ其ノ價格
ル者へ左＝揚グル事項記戦シタル申請書ヲ當該農地ノ所在スル都道
八當該為地ノ讓渡後=於ケん使用目的
府縣ノ地方長官三提出入ペン
九當該為地ノ讓渡又八誤受原因及價格
一申請者及當該農地負借人又八永小作權者氏名及住所（法人
十其ノ他參考トナルべキ事項
在リテへ其ノ名稱主タル事務所ノ所在地及代表者ノ氏名
二五

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.80)
一八
第六項ノ規定二依委員ノ職務っ行っ者ヲ除クノ氏名又へ名稱
第二十五條ノ十七①市町村長必要アリト詔ムルトキ八區頭定メテ開
記載ンタルモノ
聚分會ッ設クルコトヲ得
第二十五條ノ十四投頭效力八選舉立會人之決定ス可否同數十ル卜
②前項ノ規定二依り開票分會設ケタルトキへ市町村長八直二共ノ區
キへ選舉長之っ決スペン
劉及開票分會場ヲ公示スペッ
第二十五條八十五①農地調整法第十五條八二第三項各號八區分何
③開票分會八選舉長ノ指名ンタル吏員開票分會長卜爲之開閉し其
九付第二十五條八五第一項及第二項ノ規定二依ル屆出了タル委
ノ取締二任ズ
候補者其少選舉於ケん當該區分ニ屬スル委貞ノ定數ヲ超ェザルトキ
第二十五條十八①開票分會ノ區劃內ノ投票分會三於テ爲ンタル投票
へ嘗談區分屬スル委貞ノ選舉二付チへ投票う行ハズ
八投票分會長投票立會人全員卜共三投票函儘投票錄及選學人名
③前項ノ規定=依り投票ヲ行フコトッ要セザルトキハ市町村長へ直ニ
ノ抄本卜併七テ之開票分會長二送致スペシ
其ノ目ッ公示スペン
②投粟ノ點檢終夕ル卜キ八開票分會長八直二其結果選舉長二報
①第一項ノ場合二於テ八選舉長八選舉期日日リ五日以内選舉會
告スべン
開キ委員候補者以テ當選者卜定ムべン
①開票分會長八開票錄作り開票三開スル願末ヲ記載之開票立會人
①前項ノ場合=於テ八委負候補者ノ被選舉權有無へ選舉立會人之
全員卜共二之二署名ン直二投票錄及投票卜併七テ之選舉長二送致又
決定ス可否同數ナルトキへ選舉長之ッ決スペン
ぐ2
第三項ノ楊合二於テ八市町村長八豫メ選舉會ノ場所及日時公示ス
①選舉長八總テノ開票分會長日第二項ノ報告受ケタル日若八其
翌日又八總テノ投票函ノ送致受ケタル日若八其ノ翌日選舉會三於
第二十五條ノ十六①選舉長八選舉錄作選舉會三關スル頭末記載
選舉立會人立會八上其八報告調査第二十五條八十一第四項八規定
八慶地調整法第十五條二第三項各號八區分每二一人八選舉立會人卜
二法爲シタル點檢ノ結果卜併七テ各委員候補者ノ得票總數計算ス
共ニ之二署名スペシ
ぐ2
②役農分會長八投緊錄作り投農三關スル顛末記載之投票立會人
第二十五條八六第十三項八規定八開票立會人三、第二十五條八七第
全員卜共二之二署名スべン
一項及第二項八規定八開票分會場二第二十五條八十一第二項乃至第
①投農分會長八投票函卜同時二投票錄選舉長二送致スべ
五項、第二十五條八十二及第二十五條八十四八規定八開票分會二於
①選舉錄及投票錄八投票選舉人名簿其他關係書類卜共二委員
九開票三之準用又但之第二十五條八六第十三項中分會區翻每二調
任期間市町村長=於テ之ヲ保存スペン
製ンタル選聖人名簿ノ抄本トアルハ分會ノ區劉內＝於ケル選舉人名簿

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.79)
①前項ノ規定依り退出センメラレタル者へ最後二至り投票ヲ爲スコ
項二同ジ
トヲ得但ン選舉長又へ投農分會長會場ノ秩序ヲ棄スノ與ナント認ムル
第二十五條ノ十一①市町村長八豫メ開票ノ日時公示スべン
場合ュ於テ投票ク偽サシムルフ妨ゲズ
②開祟へ投票ノ日又八其ノ翌日（投環分會ヲ設ケタルトキへ總チノ投
第二十五條八八①選舉人八選舉當日投巽時間內二自選舉會場二到
粟函ノ逸致っ受ケタル日又へ其ノ翌日）之タ行っ
選舉人名簿又へ其ノ抄本ノ對照ッ經テ投票爲スべン
③選舉長 選舉立會人立會上投票函開中先前條第二項及第四項
②投農時間内二選舉會場二入リタル選舉人へ其ノ時間過グルモ投票
ノ投疑調査スペシ共ノ投票ノ受理如何へ選學立會人之ヲ決定ス可否
フ爲スコトッ得
同敷ナルトキへ選聚長之う決スペレ
③目う委員候補者ノ氏名又へ名稱ヲ書スルコト能八ザル者八投票ヲ爲
①選舉長八選翠立會人卜共二投環點檢スべン
スコトタ得ズ
①天災事變等ノ爲開眾ヲ行フコト能へザルトキ八市町村長へ更開票
①投票分會二於テ爲之夕ル投崇八投票分會長投票立會人ノ全員卜共二
ノ期日ク定ムペシ此ノ場合ニ於テ選舉會場ノ雙更ヲ要スルトキへ豫メ
投票函ノ僅之ク選舉長三送致スべン
更=其ノ場所ヲ公示スペシ
第二十五條ノ九①確定名簿=登錄セラレザル者へ投票ヲ爲スコトヲ得
第二十五條ノ十二選舉人八共ノ選舉會ノ參親求ムルコトヲ得但ン開
大但ン選舉人名簿三登錄七ラルべキ確定裁決書ッ所持ン選舉當日選翠
票開始前へ此ノ限=在うス
會場二到ル者八此ノ限二在ラズ
第二十五條ノ十三左ノ投聚へ之ヲ無效卜ス
②確定名簿二登錄セラレタル者選舉人名簿二登鉄セラルルコトフ得ザ
一成規ノ用紙ヲ用ヒザモノ
ル者ナルトキハ投農ヲ爲スコト得ズ選舉ノ當日選舉權フ有七ザル者
二委員候補者非ザル者ノ氏名又へ名稱ヲ記載ンタルモノ
ナルトキ赤岡む
三一般投票中二人以上ノ委貞候補者ノ氏名又へ名稱記載シタルモ
第二十五條ノ十投票 拒否 選擊立會人又八投頭立會人之決定ス
1
可否同數ナルトキへ選母長又へ投県分會長之フ決スペン
四被遺衆拙ナキ委員候補者ノ氏名又へ名稱記戦シタルモノ
②投題分會於チ投緊拒否ノ決定ッ受ケタル選舉人不服アルトキへ投
五委員似補者ノ氏名又へ名稱ノ外仙事記載シタルモノ但ン職業
農分會長へ假っ投票ク爲サシムペン
身分住所又へ敬稱ノ類っ記入シタルモノへ此ノ限=在ラス
③記項ノ投票ハ選舉人ヲンテ之ク封簡ニ入レ封誠ン表面＝自う其ノ氏
六委員候補者ノ氏名又へ名稱自書セザルモノ
名又へ名稱っ記載ン投函セシムペン
七委日候補者ノ何人ヲ記載シタルカヲ確認シ難キモノ
①投票分會長又八投票立會人二於テ異識アル選舉人二對ンテモ亦前二
八市町村農地委員會ノ委員職二在八者（農地調整法第十五條ノ九
14

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.79)
1K
第二十五條ノ五①委貞候補者タクントスル者へ選聚ノ期日ノ公示アッ
本人=通知シ選舉=立會ハンムペン
ル日日リ選舉期日前二日目迄二其ノ首市町村長二屆出ッべン
⑧委負候補者死亡ン又へ委員候補者タルコトヲ辭シタルトキへ其ノ者
②選學人名簿二登錄セラレタル者他人ヲ委自候補者ト爲サントスルト
ノ屆出タル選舉立會人へ其ノ職ヲ失っ
キへ前項ノ期間内二其ノ推四ノ屈出ッ爲スコトっ得
盤地調監法第十五條八二第三項各號 區分二付第四項八規定二依八
③委員候補有へ市町村長二屈出爲ス二非ザレ八委員候補者タルコト
選舉立會人ナキトキ二人二達七ザルトキ若ハ二人二達七ザル二至リタ
ブ辞スルコトッ得ズ
ルトキ又ハ選舉立會人＝ンテ器會スルモノ選舉會ヲ開クペキ時刻二至
前三項ノ屆出アリタルトキ又へ委員候補者ノ死亡ンタルコトタ知り
リ二人二達七ザルトキ若ハ其ノ後二人二達七ザル二至リタルトキ八選
タルトキへ市町村長ハ直ニ其ノ旨ヲ公示スペン
舉長八當該區分ノ選舉人名簿二登錄七ラレタル者ノ中日リ二人二達ス
第二十五條ノ六①選舉長八選舉委員會二於テ選任シタル者以テ之二
ル迄ノ選舉立會人ク選任シ直ニ之ッ本人二通知シ選舉立會ハシムペ
光ッ
②選舉長市町村長指揮監督承ケ選舉會開閉其取締二任
選學立會人へ正當ノ理由ナクンテ其ノ職ヲ辭スルコトッ得ズ
③委員候補者へ自己ノ登錄セラレタル選翠人名簿二登錄セラレタル者
選舉立會人八名書職卜ス
ノ中ョリ本人ノ承諾ヲ得テ選舉立會人タルべキ者一人ヲ定メ選舉ノ期
回投票分會へ選舉長ノ指名シタル吏負投票分會長卜爲之開閉ン其
日前二日目迄二選舉長ニ之っ屈出ッルコトっ得
ノ取締=任ズ
①前項ノ屈出アッタル者（委員候補者死亡シ又へ委員候補者タルコト
第三項乃至第十一項八規定八投票立會人二之準用又但選擊人名
辭シタルトキハ其ノ者ノ屈出タル者っ除ク農地調盤法第十五條
簿卜アルハ分會ノ區劉母二調整シタル選舉人名簿ノ抄本、選舉長トア
二第三項各號ノ區分二付二人超工ザル卜キ八當該區分二付テ八其
ルへ投票分會長、二人トアルへ一人トス
者ヲ以テ選舉立會人トシ二人ヲ超ユルトキ八當該區分二付テ八選舉長
第二十五條ノ七①選舉人二非ザル者八選舉會場二入ルコトヲ得ズ但
へ抽籤ヲ以テ選翠立會人二人ヲ定ムペン
選舉會場ノ事務二從事スル者、選舉會場監視スル職權有スル者又
①前項 抽蔵八選舉ノ期日ノ前日之ヲ行ス第三項ノ相出ヲ爲シタル委
八發察官吏八此ノ限二在う
員候補者へ之ニ立會フコトヲ得
②選舉會場二於テ演說討論ヲ爲シ若八喧擬二涉リ又八投粟二關之協議
○第四項ノ抽籤行フべキ場所及日時八選舉長=於テ豫メ之ヲ公示ス
若へ勸誘ヲ爲シ其ノ仙選舉會場ノ秩序ク紊ス者アルトキへ選舉長又八
ぐ2
投農分會長へ之ヲ制止シ命ニ從ハザルトキハ之ヲ選舉場外二退出セン
①第四項ノ規定二依り選舉立會人定マリタルトキ八選舉長八直ニ之

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.82)
○市町村長八十一月五日十五日間市役所若八町村役場又へ其八指
第二十五條 ①市町村ノ境界變更アッタル爲選舉人名節二移動生ジ夕
定スル場所二於テ選學人名簿っ關係者ノ縦覽二供スペン
ル卜キ八市町村長八選舉人名簿中移助二係ル部分新二屬シタル市町
○市町村長へ縱覽期間開始日前三日目迄二縱覽場所公示
村ノ市町村長三送付スペッ
第二十二條①選舉人名簿二關關係者二於テ異議丁ル卜キ八縱覺期間
②市町村ノ廢置分合アッタル爲選舉人名簿ノ引繼要スルトキへ前項
丙二市町村長二之ヲ申立ッルコトッ得此ノ場合ニ於テハ市町村長へ其
ノ例=依ん
ノ申立フ受ケタル日ョリ二十日内ニ之フ決定ン名簿ノ修正ヲ要スルト
③市町村長選舉人名簿ノ送付受ケタルトキへ直=其ノ旨ヲ公示ン併
そハ直ニ之ヲ修正スペン
七テ之ッ地方長官三報告スべン
②第一項ノ規定=依決定ヲ爲シタルトキ八市町村長八直=其ノ要領
第二十五條ノ二前條ノ規定二依送付受ケタル選舉人名簿へ市町村
ク公示スペン同項ノ規定ニ依リ名簿ッ修正ンタルトキ亦同ジ
廢置分合又八境界變更二係ル地城ノ新三屬夕ル市町村ノ選舉人名
③第一項ノ決定二不服アルモノ決定アリタル日ョリ七日内二地方長
簿卜看做ス
官二訴願スルコトス得
第二十五條ノ三 ①第二十五條ノ規定三依リ送付受ケ夕ル選舉人名簿
①前項ノ場合ニ於テ地方長官裁決ヲ爲シタルトキ八直ニ共ノ要領ヲ公
確定前十ル卜キ八名簿縱覽確定及異議ノ決定三闕又ル期日及期間
示スペン
八地方長官定ムル所二依ル
第二十三條①選舉人名簿八十二月二十日以確定ス
②前項ノ規定三依り期日及期間定メタルトキ八地方長官八直二之
○選舉人名簿へ次年八十二月十九日迄之据置夕べ
公示スペン
③前條第三項ノ場合二於テ裁決アリタル二因選舉人名簿ノ修正要
第二十五條四①市町村長 選舉期日前七日目迄二選舉會場（投票
分會場含ム以下同ジ投票ノ日時及選舉スべキ委員ノ數公示スべ
スルトキへ市町村長ハ直ニ之ッ修正スペン
①削項ノ規定二依リ修正ヲ爲シタル卜キ八市町村長八直=其ノ要領
2
公示スペン
②投票分會ク設クル場合=於テ八俳七テ其ノ區割ヲ公示スペン
○投粟分會設夕ル卜キ八市町村長八確定名簿三依分會ノ區副每二
③投票分會ノ投衆入選舉會卜同日時二之行
名簿ノ抄本ッ調製スペン
①大災地變等ノ爲投票行フコト能ハザルトキ又ハ更二投票行フ必
第二十四條①天災事變等ノ爲必要アルトキ八更二名簿調製スべン
要アルトキハ市町村長八其ノ投票ヲ行フペキ選舉會又八投票分會ノミ
②前項ノ規定三依八名簿調裂縱覽確定及異議決定二關入八期
二付更二期日定メ投票ヲ行ハシムペン此ノ場合二於テ選舉會場及投
日及期間等八地方長官ノ定ムル所二依ん
照八日時八選舉ノ期日前五日月迄二之公示スべ
一五

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.81)
1四
二
員ヲ選翠スペシ但シ町若へ村ッ廢シテ市ヲ優キ又ハ市フ廢シナ町若へ
三召集
村ヲ置ク場合ハ此ノ限ニアラズ
四前各號二揚グルそノノ外市町村農地委員會三於テ一時同居七ザん
第十九條市町村長必要アッ卜認ムルトキ八市町村選地委員會ノ選舉
コトリ止ムナカラシメスル事由ト認メタル事由
付區副ク定メテ投祟分會ヲ設タルコトッ得
第十七條晨地調整法第十五條八三ノ面積へ北海道二在六八三段步以
第二十條①委貞二闕員生シタルトキ八直二選舉會開キ當選者卜為
上都府縣二在リテへ一段步以上トス
ラザリン者ニンテ投祟ノ多數ヲ得タルモノョリ願次之ヲ補充シ得票數
第十七條二①市町村市町村農地委員選舉委貞會（以下本條及第二
同ジキトキへ年齢多き者ッ取リ年齡モ亦同ジキトキハ抽籤ヲ以テ之ヲ
十五條ノ六=於テ謂擊委貞會ト稱スっ置ク
補充スべキ者定ム此ノ場合=於テ八市町村長へ豫メ迎舉會ノ場所及
①選學委員會八市町村長監督三屬市町村農地委員會丞員八選學三
日時ヲ公示スペン
關市町村長二意見述べ且其ノ詰問應ズ
②委員二闕貞フ生ジ之フ補充スべキ者ナキトキへ委員ノ補闕選學ヲ行
①選舉委員會八委員三人ヲ以テ之ヲ組織ス
7
①員八市町村長二於テ各遇舉人名簿二登錄セラレタル者ノ中ョリ夫
第二十一條①市町村長八命令ノ定ムル所二依リ選舉人ノ爲シタル申告
マ一人ッ選任ス
基十每年十月一日現在二依農地調整法第十五條二第三項各號
①委員ノ任期ハ二年トス但シ任期中ト雖モ特別ノ事由アルトキ八市町
區分每三選舉人名簿調製スペシ
村長ハ之ク解任スルコトヲ得
②前項ノ場合二於テ選舉人ノ申告十キ卜キ又八申告二錯誤若八遺漏了
委員ハ其ノ任期滿了シタルトキト雖モ後任ノ委貞就任スル迄仍其
ルトキ八市町村長八職權以テ選舉人名簿ッ調製シ又ハ之ク修正スル
職務っ行フ
コトヲ得
①委員市町村農地委員會ノ員ノ選聚權有セザルニ至リタルトキへ
③選舉人名簿二八選舉人氏名又八名稱住所及生年月日竝二其者
其ノ職っ失っ
ノ所有又八耕作榮務營農地（盤地調整法第十五條ノ三第二項
①市町村長第四項ノ選任又八第五項但書ノ解任爲ス二八市町村農萊
三於テ準用スル同法第十五條八二第四項ノ規定二依其ノ者ノ所有ス
會又へ當該市町村ノ區城地區卜ンテ耕作者ノ組織スル幽從其ノ仙市
ル農地ト看做サレタル農地ッ含ム）ノ面積ッ記載スペン但シ農地調盤
町村長二於農地調整法第十五條二第三項各號一二該當又八者
法第十五條八三第一項二規定又ル同居八戶主又八家族夕八選舉人二付
利益フ代表スルモノト認メタル圓體ノ登見ヲ聰クロトヲ要ス
イテバ氏名及生年月日ヲ記戦スルヲ以テ足ル
第十八條市町村 廢置分合アッタル場合へ新二市町村農地委員會ノ委
○選舉人ノ年齡へ選舉人名簿確定ノ期日二依之算定

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.83)
五前號ノ施毀建設又 取得必要十ル資金ノ貸付爲入コ卜
第一號規定二依八小作料 額又へ減免條件ノ換算 當事者ノ申出三
六第四號ノ施設ノ建設又八取得二對ン助成ッ爲スコト
依夕市町村農地委員會二於テ當該農地二付從前存之夕ル實納小作料二
七自作農ノ負遊スル償務ノ借替必要ナル資金ノ貸付っ爲スコト
ンラ知レタルモノ又へ近傍類地ノ小作料ヲ斟酌シテ之タ爲ス
八第二號第五號及前號ノ賢金ノ借受ノ輪旋為スコト
第十三條地方長官農地調整法第九條八三第一項但書八規定二依八許可
九個人ノ自作地ト爲マべキ土地ッ護渡シ又へ開發レテ護渡スコト
ク爲サントスルトキへ都道府縣毘地委員會ノ意見ク聰クコトヲ要ス
十個人ノ自作地卜爲スペキ土地ヲ取得シ取得ンテ開發ッ又入開發
第十四條農地調整法第十五條第二項第二號規定二同號事項
シラ取得シ之っ譲渡スコト
定ムルコト左ノ如シ
y
十一前二號ノ事萊二依創設七うルル自作地ノ利用=必要ナル施設
一小作關係、相隣關係其他農地利用關係三關入八幹旋及爭議
ク建設シ、取得シ又へ護渡スコト
防止
第十一條市町村農地委員會農地ノ買貸人ノ自作相當トスルコトフ理
二農地交換分合ノ斡旋其ノ他股地事情ノ改善三關入八事項
由トンテ農地調整法第九條第三項ノ承記ッ爲サントスルトキへ當談
三第四條=規定スル書面ノ交付
貿貸人ガ自作ヲ爲ス二必要ナル細營能力、施設等ッ有スル十否、當該
四第十二條第三項八規定二依八小作料額又 減免條件 換算
貿貸人ノ自作二因リ當該農地ノ生產ガ増大スル否、食貸借ノ解除
五其ノ他農地關係ノ調整三關農林大臣又八地方長官ノ命ズル事項
解約又へ更新ノ拒絕因當該農地ノ負借人ノ相當十ん生活ノ維持ガ
第十五條①市町村農地委員會八當該市町村ノ區域內二存又ル農地三關
困難ト爲ルコトナキャ否等ノ諸成ノ事情ヲ考慮スルコトヲ要ス
スル事項ヲ處理スルモノトス但ン前條各號二揭グル事項二付耕作者又
第十二條①農地調整法第九條二第二項及第九條八三第一號八規定
八農地ノ所有者ノ爲必要アル場合二於テへ他ノ市町村ノ區域內二存ス
依八小作料人額又八減免餘件ノ換算八當該契約二係八物二付發林大臣
九農地ニ臨スル事項ヲ處理スルコトヲ得
ノ定ムん價格二依ル
②市町村農地委員會前條各號二揚グ九事項處理入ル場合於當談
②前項ノ規定へ小作料ノ額ガ收地對スル率依り定メラレタルモノ
事項ガ他ノ市町村選地委員會ノ臨理スべキホ項三關係ヲ有ン之處理
其ノ他當該小作契約=於テ小作料ノ額ガ一定セザルモノ（以下刈分小
スルコト困難又ハ不適當卜認ムルトキへ都道府縣農地委員會二對ン當
作料、見取小作料等卜稱ス）ナルトキへ最近五年ノ中盟凶最モ著ンキ
該事項ノ處理ヲ申出ッルコト得
二年ッ除キタル三年ノ實納小作料ノ平均額二付之ヲ適用ス
第十六條農地調整法第十五鋒八二第四項八特別八事由八左二揚少八七
③刈分小作料、見取小作料等=ンテ最近五年ノ寳納小作料ナキモノ又
ハトス
八明ナクザルモノ付テ八農地調整法第九條ノ二第二項及第九條ノ三
一 疾病
1三

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.84)
1
111
收用又へ使用=係ル目的二供スルトキ
第八條地方長官屬地調整法第六條ノ四ノ規定二依ん認可爲サン卜ス
三第二條第一項八規定 依八許可二係八農地當該許可二係ル目的
ルトキハ都道府縣農地委員會ノ意見ク聽クコトヲ要ス
二供スルトキ
第九條屬地調整法第六條八四第一項八認可八第七條各號一鼓當
四耕作以外く目的二供七ン卜スル歲地分自作為創設特別指置法第五
ル場合ニ於テハ之ヲ受クルコトア要セス
條第四號又八第五號二揚グルモノナルトキ
第十條農地調整法第七條八自作島創設維持事業卜八政府ガ行フ自作
五耕地整理其ノ他土地ノ農藥上ノ利用增進スル爲農地耕作以外
農創設特別指置法第三條第十五條、第三十餘、第三十六條若八第三
ノ目的=供スルトキ
十七條八規定二依買收夕八土地、同法第十六條第一項若へ第三十
六其ノ他農林大臣ノ定ル場合
條第一項第二號二規定スル政府八所有二屬スル土地同法第二十三條
第六條地方長官巖地調整法第六條二第一項但書規定依八許可
ノ規定=依ル交換二因リ取得タル農地又八同法第二十八條第一項
爲サントスルトキハ都道府縣屬地委員會ノ意見ク聰クコトラ要ス
同法第四十一條第三項二於テ準用スル場合含ム）八規定二依り買
第七條農地調整法第六條二第一項但書規定二依同項但書八楊合
取リ夕ル土地ノ資渡ノ事薬、同法第二十三條又八第二十五條ノ規定
ラ定ムルコト左ノ如ン
依市町村農地委員會ガ行フ發地ノ所有離、氷小作檀又へ買借權ノ交
一政府ガ自作農創設特別指置法第十六條又第四十一條第一項八規
換八指示本藥、都道府縣、市町村、都道府縣農藥會、市町村農藥會
定二依リ農地ク賢渡ストキ
農事實行組合農地開發營團又耕作者ノ組織入八圓體ンテ地方長
二為地開發營團力農地開發事榮令第七條第一項若八第十三條第一項
官ノ指定スルモノノ行フ左＝掲ゲル事藥、市町村屬地委員會ガ行フ第
一號、第三號第四號第六號及第八號揚八事藥竝二疊林中央金
（同令第十五條=於テ準用スル場合ヲ含ム本條中以下同）ノ規定
依許可受ケタル價格以下ノ價格以テ同令第六條第一項若八
庫、日本勤藥銀行又八北海道拓殖銀行ガ第二號、第五號又八第七號乃
第十三條第三項（同令第十五餘二於テ準用人ル場合含ム本餘中以
至第十一號三揚グん事榮二闘シ必要ナル費金貸付クル事業謂っ
下同シ）ノ規定=依リ農地ヲ賣波ン若へ讓波ストキ又へ同令第十三
一個人ノ自作地卜為スべキ土地ノ取得ノ幹旋ッ爲スコト
條第一項ノ規定=依り認可ッ受ケタル價格以下ノ價格以テ同令第
二個人ノ自作地卜爲スべキ土地ノ取得又八開發二必要十ル費金ノ貸
十四條ノ規定二依刃農地讓渡ストキ
付タ爲スコト
三農地調整法第七條自作農則設維持人事業行者ガ盤地開發事
三個人ノ自作地卜爲スペキ土地ノ開發二對ン助成爲スコト
粟令第十三條第三項八規定二依讓受ケ夕八盤地同令第十三條第
四前三號ノ事業二依り創設セラルル自作地ノ利用二必要ナル施設
一項ノ規定二依り認可ヲ受ケタル價格以下ノ圓格ヲ以テ額渡ストキ
取得ノ幹旋ヲ爲スコト

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.82)
トッ頭ス
二農地調整法施行令
昭和二十一年一月二十五日
勅合第三十八號
第三條農地調整法第五條第四號ノ場合ッ定ムルコ卜左ノ如
農地闕整法第七條自作農創設維持事榮依創設又維持七
歌正昭和二十一年十一月二十一日勅令第五百五十六號
ヲレタル自作地ニ付其ノ創設又へ維持ノ爲生シタル事粟者二對スん
第一條晨地調整法第三使第一項ノ規定二依り同項ノ團體定ルコ
債務ノ爲抵當檀っ設定スルトキ
二農地調整法第七條自作屬創設雜持事榮三依創設又八雜持
一 樂組合
ラレタル自作地二付其ノ創設又ハ維持セラレタル年ョッ起算シ三十
二 晨事實行相合
年經過ン且其ノ創設又八維持ノ爲生ジタル事榮者二對スル債務
三富實行組合
辨済２完了シタル後ニ於テ抵當權設定スルトキ
四節各號揚グルモノノ外耕作者ノ組識スん國體ニンチ地方長官
三耕地整理其ノ他土地ノ農榮上ノ利用增進ス八爲農地耕作以外
指定スルモノ
ノ目的ニ供スルトキ
第二條①農地所有箱地上權、永小作檀、質機、貸借檀若 使用貸
四自作機創設特別指置法第二十五條規定二依八交換二因價借權
借二依八禮利（自作農則設特別指置法第十六條又八第四十一條第一項
又へ永小作曜ヲ移轉スルトキ
ノ規定依ル賣渡ノアリタル土地以外ノ農地ニ付テノ耕作フ目的トス
五土地收用法其仙ノ法令二依買戾權有スル者ガ其ノ買戾權
ル質借檀若へ使用貸借＝依ん權利ヲ除クラ取得セントスル者又へ農
基キ農地ノ所有權ッ譲受ケントスルトキ
地調整法第七條ノ自作慶則設維持ノ事榮三依創設若へ維持七クレ
六其ノ他農林大臣ノ定ムル場合
ル自作地二付抵當權っ設定セントスル者へ命令ノ定ムル所二依り地方
第四條前條各號ノ一二規定入ル場合ノ登記ノ申請書=八禮利ノ取得又
長官ノ許可っ受クペン
設定ガ當該各號ノ一二該當スルコトッ證スべキ市町村農地委員會
②自作農創設特別指置法第十六條又八第四十一條第一項八規定二依八
書面ク添附スルコトヲ要ス
賣渡ノアリタル土地以外ノ農地＝付テノ耕作ク月的トスル段借榴又へ
第五條為地調整法第六條二揭グル者農地耕作以外目的二供七ン卜
使用貸借二依ん權利ヲ取得セントスル者へ命令ノ定ムル所二依リ市町
スル・キへ左ノ各號ノ一ニ該當スル場合ヲ除クノ外命令ク定ムル所
村農地委員會ノ承認っ受クペン
依地方長官ノ許可ッ受クペン
①前二項二揚グル開利ノ取得又へ設定ノ登記ノ申請爲スへ其ノ申
一國又八都道府縣ガ農地耕作以外ノ目的二供ス八卜キ
請書地方長官ノ許可書又八市町村農地委員會承認書添附スルコ
二土地收用法其ノ他ノ法令二依收用ン又へ使用ンタル為地當該
11

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.88)
10
ん事項へ勅令ラ以テ之っ定
第十九條第八號の二中「第四條第六條一を一第七條一に改め、同
第五條①小作料就制令臨時農地價格就制今及臨時農地等管理令八之
條第九號中「第六條一を一第七條に改め一若八第四條」及び一第四
っ腋止ス
條を削り同條第九號二中「第四條團體力同法第三條又へ第四
②前項規定施行前小作料統制令臨時盤地價格就制令又臨時農地
條一を「第七條」に同條第九號二及び第十二號中一第四條第六條
等管理令=基キ爲タん許可若へ認可又へ許可若へ認可ノ申請八之
を一第七條一に改める
本法ノ相當規定三基キテ爲シタルモノト看做ス
①第一項ノ規定施行前二爲シタル行爲二關スル罰金ノ適用二付テへ小
作料就制令臨時農地價格統制令及臨時農地等管理令八仍其效力
有ス
附則（昭和二十一年法律第四十二號）
①この法律施行の期日は、勅令でこれを定める。（註）
註）昭和二十一年勅令第五百五十五號を以て昭和二十一年十一月
二十二日からとれを施行する。
①第四條の改正規定は、この法律施行前從前の第六條第三號の規定に
より從前の第五條の規定による認可を受けないでした機地に闘する契約
で當骸契約に係る極利の設定又は移轉に闘する登記及び當該農地の引渡
のいづれもが完了してあないものについてもこれを適用する。
③この法律施行後勅令で定める時期までは、第九條第三項の規定中市
町村農地員會の承認」とあるのは、「地方長官ノ許可」と、同條第四
項の改正規定中「承認」とあるのは、「許可」と、読み替へるものとす
1。
登鉄税法の一部を次のやうに改正する。
3

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.85)
傳事件モ亦之適用ス
附則（昭和二十年法律第六十四號）
第二十二條①登錄稅法第十九條但書中「第八號第九號」「第八號
第一條本法施行ノ期日八各規定=付勅令ヲ以テ之定ム（註）
乃至第九號八四一二改
（註）昭和二十一年勅令第三十七號以テ第九錄ノ二乃至第九錄
①同法同條第八號中「自作農創設維持又八」及「北海道府縣市町村
七、第九條ノ八（第九條八二第一項第九條八三竝二第九條ノ七
産藥組合産藥組合聯合會」削同號ノ次二左ノ一號っ加っ
二於テ準用スル第九錄ノ二第一項及第九條ノ三ノ規定二關スル部
分二限ル以下同）第十七餘ノ四（第九條ノ二第一項第九條
八二農地調整法第四條第六條又八第十九條自作農則設維持
三、第九條ノ七二於テ準用ス九第九條ノ二第一項及第九條ノ三姓
八事藥二依ん個人ノ土地所有權ノ取得登記
二第九條ノ八八規定二關スル部分二限ル以下同シ）及第十七條
①同法同條第九號っ左ノ如夕改
六（第十七條ノ四ノ規定二ス九部分二限ル）ノ改正規定竝二附
九農地調整法第三條若八第四條八團證又八第六條若八第十九條
則第五條ノ規定（小作統制令廢止二阴ス九部分二限ル）八昭和二
事藥行っ者二對同法第三條第四條、第六條又八第十九條
十一年四月一日ヨリ其ノ他ノ部分八同年二月一日ヨリ之夕施行
事藥二要スル資金ノ貸付ヲ爲ス者力其ノ貸付ノ爲二スル抵當權
x
取得ノ登記
第二條第六條八四改正規定八同條規定施行ノ際現三盤地二付存
九八二農地調監法第三條又八第四條側體力同法第三條又八第四
ル讓渡契約二シテ當該農地二付既三讓受人權利二關スル登記アリ夕
條ノ事業ノ爲=スル土地ノ權利ノ取得ノ登記
ルモノ又ハ當該農地ノ引渡ヲ完了シタルモノニ付テハ之ヲ適用セズ
九八三農地調整法第四條第六條又八第十九條八事業行フ者力
第三條第九條ノ二ノ改正規定八昭和二十年以前 産米以元スル小作
自作農創設維持ノ爲二ス九抵常權取得登記
料八支拂及其ノ受領三付テ八之適用七ズ
九八四農地調整法第七條又八第十九條八規定三依八登記
第四條①從前規定三依八市町村農地委員會又八都道府縣農地委員會
①同條第十二號っ左ノ如夕改
八本法二依八市町村農地委員會又八都道府縣農地委貞會成立三至八
十二農地調整法第四條第六條又八第十九條自作農創設維持
迄存續スルモノトシ本法=依リ市町村農地委員會又八都道府縣農地委
事藥二依リ創設又へ維持七之レタル土地ノ所有者力其ノ創設又へ
員會ノ檀限三屬セシメラレタル事項タ處理ス
維持ノ條件具備七サル二至リタル場合二於ケル事葉者ノ土地所
②前項二規定スルモノ除クノ外第十五條乃至第十五條ノ十八ノ改正
有權取得八登記
規定施行際市町村農地委員會又八都道府縣農地委員會二關必要十
九

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.84)
八
③特別ノ事情丁ル市町村二八勅令ノ定ムル所二依9市町村農地秀員會
二 第九條第三項八規定二違反女ん者
フ置力サルコトヲ得此ノ楊合ニ於テハ本法二依リ市町村農地委員會
三第十七條ノ規定二依八報告怠若八庶僞ノ報告爲ッ又へ當該
權限二屬七ンメメル事項八當該市町村ノ隣接市町村二設置セラレタル
官吏ノ臨檢檢査ッ拒ミ妨ゲ若へ忌避シタル者
市町村農地委員會ニシテ地方長官ノ指定スルモノ之ヲ處理ス
第十七條ノ六法人ノ代表者又八法人若へ人ノ代理人、使用人其ノ他
地方長官特二必要丁リ卜認上ル卜十へ命合ノ定山ん所二依り市町村
從粟者其八法人又へ人八粟務三關八第十七條入四又八前條第一號第二
八區域二以上地區二分市町村農地委員會二代へ各地區二地區農
號若八第三號前段ノ遺反行爲之為シメルトキへ行爲者フ罰スルノ外其
地委員會ヲ置タコトッ得
ノ法人二對ン各本條ノ罰金刑フ科ス
本法中市町村農地委員會三關スル規定八第二項ノ規定除夕八外前
附則（昭和十三年法律第六十七號）
項ノ地區農地委貴會二之適用ス
第十八條本法施行ノ期日八勅令ヲ以テ之定（昭和十三年勅令第五
第十七條八三本法中町村又八町村長二關スル規定八町村組合=シテ町
百二十五號以同年八月一日日リ施行ス
村ノ事務ノ全部又ハ役場事務ヲ共同處理スルモノノ存スル地二在リテ
第十九條①命令以テ定ムル自作農創設維持ノ本業二依り本法施行前
八町村組合又べ組合管理者二町村制施行七ザル地=在リテ八之二
二創設又へ維持セラレタル自作地=付テへ其ノ旨ノ登記フ爲スコトヲ
準ズルモノニ市又へ市長二關スル規定八東京都ノ區ノ存スル區城
得②第五條第七條第二項第三項竝二第十六條第二號及第三號八規定
京都市、大阪市、橫濱市、名古屋市及神戶市二在八地方長官指
へ前項ノ自作地二關シ之準用ス
定スル區又八區長之適用ス
第二十條第八條及第九條ノ規定八本法施行ノ際現存ス八農地ノ貸貸
第十七條四第四條第六條二第一項第六條四第二項、第九條
借二モ亦之ヲ適用ス但ッ本法施行ノ際現三存スル農地ノ貧貸借ニシテ
八二第一項若へ第九條ノ三（第九條ノ七=於テ準用スル場合ヲ含ム）
本法施行後一年內二其ノ期間滿了スべキモノ二付當事者ガ其ノ期間滿
又八第九條八九規定二違反之夕ル者八二年以下懲役又八一萬圓以
丁前一年內二相手方二對シチ爲シタル更新拒絕ノ通知又八條件變更
下ノ罰金二處ス
スル二非ザレ六更新七ザル旨ノ通知八第九條第二項ノ期間内二爲サザ
第十七條ノ五左ノ各號八一二該當スん者八六月以下八微役又八五百圓
ルモノト雖モ之ク同條同項ノ期間內二爲シタルモノト看做ス
以下ノ罰金二處ス
第二十一條第十條第二項第十一條及第十四條規定八本法施行八際
一第六條ノ規定二違反シタル者
現二緊屬又九小作關係其ノ他農地ノ利用關係三關又ル訴訟事件又八調
8

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.81)
告ヲ徽シ又へ委員若八委員會ノ事務二從事スル者ンチ農地其ノ他必
一本法其ノ他ノ法律二依リ其ノ權限=屬七シメタル事項
要ナル場所ニ就キ所要ノ調査ヲ爲サシムルコトヲ得
二其ノ他晨地開係嗣監三關勅令以定ん事項
第十五條八十七市町村農地委員會三闕入八費用八市町村都道府縣慶
第十五條八十四①都道府縣農地委員會八會長及委員以テ之組織
地委員會二闕入ル費用八都道府縣之負捲又
長へ地方長官ッ以テ之二充ッ
第十五條ノ十八第十五條乃至前條二規定スルモ八八外市町村農地委員
①委員へ左揚グん者ク以テ之=充ッ
會及都道府縣島地委員會二關必要十ル事項八勅令ヲ以テ之ヲ定
一第十五條八二第三項 規定二依同項第二號 區分屬入八者二
第十六節左=揚グル不動産ノ取得二對シテへ地方稅ヲ課スルコトッ得
就キ選舉七クレタル委員二於テ互選ン其ノ選二當リタル者十人
K
二第十五條八二第三項八規定 依同項第二號八區分二屬又八者
一第三條規定 依八土地取得又八第七條自作農創設維持八事
就半選舉七うレタル員二於テ互選シ其ノ選二當リタル者六人
榮ノ爲=スル土地ノ取得
三第十五條八二第三項規定 依同項第三號 區分二屬入八者二
二第七條ノ自作農創設維持ノ事萊依八個人八土地ノ取得
就中選學七ラレタル委員二於云互選シ其ノ選二當リタん者四人
三第七條ノ自作盤創設維持ノ事業=依創設又へ維持七ラレタん土
四學識經驗アル者ノ中曰リ主務大臣ノ選任シタル者五人乃至十人
地ノ所有者ガ其ノ創設又八維持ノ條件具備七ザル二至リタル場合
第十五條八十五第十五條八二第十項第十五條八六乃至第十五條八八
於ケル事薬者ノ土地ノ取得
第十五條八九第一項乃至第三項第五項第六項及第十五條八十乃至第十
第十七條行政官總必要アリト認ムル卜キ八農地共ノ他ノ土地若へ物件
五條八十二八規定八都道府縣農地委貧會三之準用又但第十五條
三關之必要ナん報告微シ又へ當該官更タシテ日出日リ日沒迄間陽
九第二項中市町村長卜丁ル八地方長官、同條第三項中地方長官卜丁ル
地其ノ他必要十～場所二臨檢其ノ狀況若八帳簿書類其ノ他物件
八主務大臣第十五餘八二第八項卜丁八八第十五條八十四第三項第四
檢査セシムルコトッ得
跳トス
第十七條八二①第十五餘八二第三項各號八區分八何レ力二付被選聚權
第十五條八十六市町村農地委員會及都道府縣農地委員會第十五條又
者ノ類同條第六項二規定スル定數二滿タザル市町村二設置七ラルべキ
八第十五條ノ十三二規定スル事項處理スル爲必要アルトキ八屬地
市町村農地委員會二關シテ八勅令ノ定ムル所三依リ特例設クルコト
所有者又へ耕作者其ノ他關係者二對之其ノ出頭求メ若八必要十八報
t

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.81)
チ定ムル面積ノ農地所有スル者又へ此等ノ者同居戶主若八家族
①第十五條二第三項各號區分八一二屬選舉權有スル者八當談
市町村農地委員會委員選舉權及被選歸檀有入
區分三屬之選舉權有スル者二分八一以上同意得當該區分二
③前條第四項ノ規定八前項ノ場合之準用
屬スル者二就キ同項ノ規定二依り選學七ラレタル委員八全員ノ改選
第十五條ノ四①左二揚グル者八選悪檀及被選衆禮有七ズ
市町村長二請求スルコトヲ得
一未成年者
③地方長官八特別八事由アル卜キ八第十五條八二第八項八規定二依身
二 藥治產者
選任シタル委員ク解任スルコトッ得
三六年ノ微役又へ蔡綱以上ノ刑二處セラレタん者
①第十五條八二第九項本文ノ規定八前項八場合二之準用
四六年未補ノ懲役又へ禁鋼ノ刑=處セラレ其ノ刑ノ執行ヲ終リ又八
①補闕委員八其前任者殘任期間在任
執行ヲ受クルコトナキニ至ル迄ノ者
③委員八其ノ任期滿了ンタルトキト雖モ後任ノ委員就任スル迄仍其
③左二揚グル者へ枋選懸權っ有セズ
職務ヲ行っ
一葵治產者
第十五條ノ十第十五條八二第三項ノ規定二依リ選學七ラレタル委員被
二破産者ニンテ復權ヲ得ザルモノ
選舉權ヲ有七ザルニ至リタルトキハ其ノ職ヲ失フ
第十五條ノ五選舉二關入ル事務八市町村長之擔任ス
第十五條八十一①市町村農地委員會定員過半數三當八委員出席
第十五條ノ六①選舉へ投票=依リ之う行っ
ルニ非ザレバ會議ヲ開クコトッ得ズ
③投票八一人一票二限ん
②議事八出席員ノ過半敷ヲ以テ之ヲ決ス可否同數ナルトキ八會長ノ決
①投裂へ選舉人自投票所二到投票用紙三被選學人一人氏名自
スル所二依ん
書ン之ヲ行フペン但ン法人＝在リテへ其ノ代表者之ッ行フモノトス
①市町村農地委員會會議八公開ス
①投票用紙=へ選事人ノ氏名っ記載スルコトッ得ズ
○會長八議事錄作成シ之ク縱覺二供スペン
第十五條ノ七投票ノ多數得タル者ヲ以テ當選人トス得票數同ジキ卜
第十五條八十二委員八自己及自己卜同一戶籍內二在ル者三關又八事件
キ八年齢多キ者フ取リ年齡モ亦同ジキトキハ抽籤ッ以テ之タ定ム
二付議事ニ與ルコトヲ得ズ
第十五條ノ八委員へ正當ノ事由ナクンテ其ノ職ヲ辭スルコトタ得ズ
第十五條十三①都道府縣三都道府縣農地委員會置夕
第十五條八九 ①委員八任期八二年卜ス
②都道府縣農地委員會八主務大臣及地方長官監督三屬之左三揚ル
4

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.81)
四
ルコトリ得
②前項 規定二依入裁判八調停事件緊屬又ル裁判所三於乎非訟事件
①難項一定期合中央巖地委員會定ル基準從と都道府縣農地
手護法二依リ之っ爲ス
貴會之定ム但之田二在リテ八二五分、畑二在八一割五分
③第一項ノ規定二依ル裁判二遊反シタル者八調停事件緊屬スル裁判
超ユルゴトタ得ズ
所二於テ五百圓以下ノ過料二處スルコト得
③前項=規定スルモノノ外第一項ノ規定ノ施行二關ン必要ナル事項へ
①非訟事件手讀法第二百七條及第二百八條規定八前項過料二之
命令ア以テ之っ定ム
準用ス
①中央農地委員會二關スル規程八勅合ヲ以テ之定ム
第十二條①小作調停法二依八調停委員會二於元調停成之ザル場合二裁
第九條ノ九何等ノ名義ヲ以テスルッ問八ズ第六條二第一項第六條
判所相當卜認ムル卜キ八職權ヲ以テ小作官及調停丞員ノ意見聽當
八四第二項又八第九條八二第一項若八第九條八三（第九條八七=於
事者雙方ノ利益ヲ衡平=考慮シ一切ノ事情ク斟酌シテ調停三代へ小作
準用スル場合ヲ含ム～ノ規定ニ依ル制限ッ免ルル行為ヲ為スコトヲ得
關係ノ存續、小作條件變更其他爭議解決上必要大八裁判爲
K
コトヲ得此ノ裁判二於テへ小作料支拂小作地ノ引渡其ノ他財産上
第九條八十耕作八目的二供又ル爲二スル農地貸貸借又八永小作二付
ノ給付タ命ズルコトヲ得
八書面二依小作料額支拂條件及滅免條件賀貸借又八永小作
②前條第二項規定八前項規定三依八裁判二之準用又
八存護期間、敷金修結費、用排水費及有益費負撥其他負貸借又
③第一項ノ規定=依ル裁判二對シテハ即時抗告爲スコトヲ得其ノ期
八永小作ノ内容ッ明ナラシムペン
間ハ之ヲ二週間トス
第十條①小作關係ノ爭議=付公益上必要アット認ルトキ八小作官へ
①前項ノ即時抗告八執行停止ノ效力ヲ有ス
小作調停法=依ル調停ノ申立ッ爲スコトッ得
第一項ノ規定二依ル裁判確定シタル卜キ八裁判上ノ和解卜同一ノ效
②小作關係ノ爭議=付訴訟ガ緊屬スル卜キ八受訴裁判所八職權以テ
カタ有ス
小作官ノ意見ヲ聰キ事件ヲ小作調停法ニ依ル調停=付スルコトヲ得
第十三條小作關係爭議除夕外相隣關係其他農地利用關係二
第十一條①小作調停法二依ル調停ノ為必要アット認ムルトキ八裁判所
付爭識ヲ生ジタルトキ八當事者八裁判所二調停ノ申立爲スコト
八職證以テ小作官ノ意見聰キ調停前ノ指置トシテ必要ナル命令ヲ
得此ノ場合三於八小作調停法及第十條乃至前條規定準用入
為スコトフ得
第十四條裁判所第十二條又八前條 規定三依小作關係 存讀 小作
i

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.83)
付ク爲ス場合へ此ノ限二在うズ
③地方長官第一項ノ認可爲シタル卜キ八命令ノ定ムル所二依り其
③前項ノ規定二遠反スル契約二付テ八命令ノ定ムル所二依金錢二換
旨ヲ公示スペン
算セラレタル小作料ノ額又八減免條件（金錢二換算セラレタルモノガ
①前項ノ規定=依ル公示アリタルトキ八其ノ小作料ノ額又へ波免條件
第九條ノ三各號=揚グル小作料ノ額又八波免條件二比ン地ノ貿借人
ヲ以テ前條各號=揚グル小作料額又八滅免傾件卜看做ス
又へ永小作權者=不利ナル場合在リテ八同條各號二損グル小作料
①前四項ノ規定へ公示セッレタル小作料ノ額又へ減免係件ヲ變更スル
額及減免條件フ以テ契約ヲ爲ンタルモノト看做ス
場合二之ヲ準用ス
第九條ノ三小作料八左ノ各號=揚グル小作料ノ額又八減免條件二比
第九條ノ五①行政官態前二條ノ規定二依八小作對ノ額又へ減免條件著
地ノ貧借人又へ永小作權者不利卜爲ルべキ額又へ減免條伴以テ
シク不當ナリト記ムルトキへ第九條ノ三各號二揚グル小作料ノ額又八
之ヲ契約シ支拂ヒ又へ受領スルコトヲ得ズ但シ特別ソ事由アル場合
減免條件=代ルべキ小作料ノ類又八減免條件ヲ定ムルニトヲ得
二於テ農地ノ所有考又へ負貸人ガ命令ノ定ムル所二依地方長官ノ許
②地方長官前項ノ規定=依リ小作料額又へ減免條件定メントスル
可ク受ケタルトキへ此ノ限ニ在ラズ
トキハ都道府縣農地委員會ノ意見聴クコトフ要ス
一小作料統制令廢止ノ際小作料ノ定アル農地二付テ八其ノ小作料
③前條第三項乃至第五項八規定八第一項八場合二之準用ス
額及滅免條件（金錢以外ノ物以テ又八金錢以外ノ物基準卜シテ
第九條ノ六前二條ノ規定へ裁判、裁判上ノ和解又八小作調停法三依
定メラレタル小作料ノ額及減免條件二在リテハ命令ノ定ムル所三依
調停二依リ定マリタル小作料ノ額又八減免條件二付テへ之ヲ適用七ス
リ金錢二換算セラレタル小作料ノ額及減免條件
第九條八七第九條八二乃至前條ノ規定八敷金、補償金穀、修繕殺及用
二前號二該當七ザル農地二付テ八小作料統制令廢止後=於ケル最初
排水毀負擔竝=小作料額及減免條件以外ノ農地八負貨借若八永小
八小作料ノ額及減免條件
作又ハ之=附隨スル契約ノ條件ニシテ命令ヲ以テ定ムルモノニ付之
第九條ノ四①市町村農地委員會必要アット認ムルトキ八地方長官ノ認
準用ス
可受ヶ當該市町村二在ル盤地二付前條各號二揚グル小作料ノ額又八
第九條ノ八①小作料ノ額ガ田=在リテ八通常收復七ラルル米ノ價額
波免條件二代ルペキ小作料ノ額又八減免條件ヲ定ムルコトヲ得
畑二在リテ八通常收覆七クルル主作物ノ價額ノ一定割合二相當スル額
③地方長官前項ノ認可ッ爲サントスルトキ八都道府縣農地委貞會ノ意
超ル卜キ八農地ノ貧借人又八永小作人八當該農地ノ貨貸人又八所
見ククコトヲ婆ス
有者二對之其一定割合二相當又ル額二至ル迄小作料八減額精求入
1川1

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.82)
11
ん渡契約ニンテ當談盤地二付既二讓受人ノ權利二開スル登記アリタ
②民法第五百六十六條第一項及第三項八規定八登記七廿八賀貸借八目
ルモノ又へ當談晨地ノ引渡ッ完了シタルモノニ付テハ之ヲ適用セズ
的タル農地ガ齊買ノ目的物ナル場合ニ之ヲ泄用ス
第六條ノ三①地方長官市町村機地委員會ノ申請丁タル場合二於テ特
③民法第五百三十三條八規定八前項ノ場合之準用
必要ア卜認ムル卜キ八都道府縣盤地委負會ノ意見聰キ當該申請
第九條①農地ノ貸貸人八負借人ガ宥恕スべキ事情ナキ二拘ラズ小作料
二係九區域二付前條第一項ノ率二代ルべキ率ヲ定メ又八同項二規定ス
フ潛納スル等信畿三反ンタル行爲ナキ限リ貫貸借ノ解除右へ解約為
え以外ノ基準二依リ同項ノ額二代ルべキ額ヲ定ムルコトヲ得
シ又ハ更新拒ムコトヲ得ズ但シ土地使用ノ目的ノ變更又八貸貸人
③地方長官前項ノ規定二依り率又八額ヲ定メタル卜キ八之ヲ公示ス
自作ヲ相當トスル場合其ノ他正當ノ事由アル場合八此ノ限=在ラズ
③前項ノ規定二依リ公示アリタルトキハ其ノ率又八額ヲ以テ前條ノ率
②當事者ガ盤地ノ貿貸借期間ッ定メタルトキ八當事者ガ期間滿了前
又へ額卜君做ス
六月乃至一年內二相手方二對之更新拒絕ノ通知又八條件ヲ變更又ル三
第六條ノ四①地租法二依ん貸貸價格十キ農地讓渡又場合二八其ノ價
非ザレべ更新セザル旨ノ通知ヲ爲サザルトキへ從前ノ負貸借ト同一ノ
格二付命合ノ定ムル所二依讓渡人又へ讓受人=於テ地方長官認可
條件ヲ以テ更二賀貸借ヲ爲シタルモノト看做ス但ン貸貸人ノ疾病二囚
フ受クペン
リテ自ラ耕作スルコト能ハザル爲其ノ他特別ノ事由二因リテ一時貸貸
①前項ノ場合ニ於テ農地ノ價格八同項ノ認可アリタル額ヲ超エテ之
借ヲ爲ンタルコト明ナル場合へ此ノ限ニ在ラズ
契約ン支拂ヒ又へ受領スルコトッ得ズ
③盤地ノ負貸借ノ當事者負貸借ノ解除若八解約爲シ又へ更新拒
第七條①命令以云定云八自作農則設維持亦業二依創設又八維持
ントスルトキハ命令ノ定ムル所二依リ市町村選地委員會ノ承認ヲ受ク
セラレタル自作地ニ付テへ其ノ首ノ登記ヲ爲スコトヲ要ス
③前項ノ登記ヲ爲ス二非ザレべ命合以テ定ムル自作殿創設誰持ノ事
前項ノ承認ヲ受ケズシテ爲シタル行爲ハ其ノ效力生ゼズ
萊二依リ創設又八維持七ラレタル自作地タルロトヲ以テ第三者二對抗
第二項竝二民法第六百十七條及第六百十八條規定二異九小作條件
スルコトヲ得ズ
ニシテ賀借人ニ不利ナルモノハ之ヲ定メザルモノト看做ス
①第一項ノ規定=依ル登記=關ン必要ナル事項八勅令ヲ以テ之定ム
第九條二①小作料八金錢以外物以テ又へ金錢以外ノ物基準卜
第八條①農地ノ段貸借八其ノ登記ナキモ農地ノ引渡アリタルトキ八爾
シテ之ッ契約シ支拂ヒ又ハ受領スルコトヲ得ズ但シ小作料償務ガ辨
後其ノ農地二付物權取得シタル者ニ對シ共ノ效力ヲ生ズ
濟期=在ル卜キ償務者ガ債權者ノ承諾ヲ以テ其ノ支拂三代へテ他ノ給

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.84)
5
委員會ノ承認ッ受クルニ非ザレパ之爲スコトヲ得ズ
一農地調整法
昭和十三年四月二日
法律第六十七號
②前項ノ許可又承認二八條件ヲ附スルコトッ得
③第一項ノ許可又ハ承認受ケズンテ爲シタル行爲八其ノ效力ヲ生せ
改正
昭和二十咋十二月二十八日法律第六十四號
x
昭和二十一年十月二十一日法律第四十二號
（駐）傍線の箇所は昭和二十一年法律第四十二號で改正された
第五條 前條ノ規定八左ノ各號ノ一二該當スル場合二へ之適用之ズ
部分を示す。
一第三條ノ國證ガ同條ノ事業ヲ行フ爲前條二揚グル極利ヲ取得スん
第一條 本法八耕作者ノ地位ノ安定及農藥生產力ノ維持增進岡九爲農
場合
地關係調監ヲ爲スッ以テ目的トス
二前條二揭グル極利ノ取得關之當事者ノ一方ガ國、都道府縣又八
第二條①本法二於テ農地トへ耕作ノ目的=供七ラルル土地ッ謂フ
農地開發營團十八場合
②本法二於テ小作料トへ耕作ノ目的ヲ以テ農地ガ貿借七ラルル場合二
三土地收用法其ノ他ノ法令二依農地收用スル場合
於ケル借貨（農地以外ノ土地又八建物其ノ他ノ工作物が農地三附隨
四其ノ仙命令ヲ以テ定ムル場合
尹貨借七ラレ其ノ借貨ガ農地ノ借貸卜契約上分別シ得ザル場合二在
第六條①農地所有者 貨借人、永小作人其 他權原三基 農地耕
テへ遇地以外ノ土地又八建物其ノ他ノ工作物ノ借貨ヲ含ム又八耕作
作スルコトヲ得ル者其ノ選地タ耕作以外ノ日的二供セントスルトキへ
ノ目的ヲ以テ氷小作權ガ設定七ラルル場合ニ於ケル小作料ヲ謂フ
命令ノ定ムル所二依リ地方長官ノ許可受クべン
第三條 ①農地ノ所有者又へ耕作者へ疾病其ノ他命令ヲ以テ定ムル事由
②前項ノ許可=八條件ヲ附スルコトヲ得
因リテ農地ヲ自ラ耕作シ又ハ管理スルコト能ハザルトキハ市町村
第六條ノ二①農地ノ價格八第六條ノ四二定ムル場合除クノ外當該農
市町村農業會其ノ他命令ヲ以テ定ル團證二農地ノ管理又八買取ノ申
地ノ地租法=依ル貨貸價格=主務大臣ノ定ムル率乘シテ得タル額
出ヲ爲スコトヲ得
超エテ之ッ契約ン支拂ヒ又ハ受側スルコトッ得ズ但シ農地ノ價格二
②前項ノ申出アリタル場合二於テ八同項ノ國體へ命令ノ定ムル所二依
付命令ノ定ム九所二依リ讓渡人又八讓受人二於地方長官ノ許可受
リ盤地ノ管理又へ買取ヲ爲スコトヲ得
ケタル場合及命令タ以テ定ムル場合ハ此ノ限二在ラス
第四條①農地所右權、貸借權 地上權其他權利ノ設定又八移轉
②主務大臣前項ノ率ヲ定メタルトキハ之ヲ告示ス
八命令ノ定ムル所二依當事者二於地方長官許可又八市町村農地
①第一項ノ規定八前項ノ規定二依ル告示丁タル際現二農地二付存ス

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.95)
11
千農地調整法の一部を改正する法律案の逐條說明
……
十一自作農創設特別措置法の逐條說明

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.86)
目次
一卷地法……
二地調整法施行令
三機地調整法施行規則…
四農地調整法施行三關スル告示…
五自作農創設特別措置法
六自作農創設特別措置法施行令（案）…
七自作農創設特別措置法施行規則（案）……
八卷照條文
昭和二十一年農林省令第五十八號……
日刑
四宗教法人令
田町村制…
九第八十九議會に於ける自作為創設特別措置法案及び農地調終法改正法律案提案理由說明……三

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.95)
UNITED STATES P'!TICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tolyo, February 10, 1947.
LEGAL ADVISER
E
UNCLASSIFIED
974℃
工
u
No. 867
SuBJECT: Japanese Luws and Ordinances Helative to Rural Land Reforn.
The Counselor of ission in Charge has the honor to enclose two
copies of a pampihlet in the Japanese language entitled "Laws and Regu-
lations helating to the Reform of the gricultural Land System and
Explanation Thereof", published by the Japanese Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry and the Rew SelfRule association, and containing the text
of the "-gricultural Ind djustment Iaw" (copy of a translation of
which is enclosed); and the text of the "Special Measure for the Estab-
lishment of Cner-Furmers" (translation not available).
894.52
There are also cnclosed tiree copies in the Japanese language and
five copies in English tronslation of Imperial Crdinance No. 621, pro-
mulgated Deceber 27, 1946, hich is the enforcement order for the
"Special Measure for the Establisihment of Oiner-Farmers".
2
COP123
These laws and ordinances previde the foundation for rural land
2
reform in Japan. ttention is invited to the fact that the "Agricul-
tural Land adjustment Law", dated April 2, 1938, includes amendments
dated Decenber 28, 1945, and Cctober 21, 1946, and that those of the
latter date are underlined in the Japanese text.
"Iaws and Regulations Helating to the
Wan
Reform of the gricultural Land
System and Explanation Thereof"
(two copies);
2. Translation of "Agricultural Land
27 53
Adjustment Law" (one copy);
FR
gated December 27, 1946 (three copies);
4y Translae on of Imporial Crdinance No. 621
(five copies))
Original and hectograph to Department.
852
RIBushner/blc
MAR 27 1947
FILED
is3

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
MAR 41947
In reply refer to
JK
My dear Mr. Yasui:
Thank you for your letter of February 14, 1947 concerning the
condemnation by the Japanese Government of agricultural land held
by Mr. Nakagoro Nishimoto.
The Japanese Diet has passed, and the Japanese Government is
894.52
now beginning to administer, an agricultural refomm law calling
for the purchase by the Government, for resale to tenants, of:
(a) all land held by absentee landlords, (b) all land held for
rental by non-absentee landlords in excess of one cho, and (c)
all land held by owner cultivators in excess of three cho.
52/2-1447
Presumably the land which Mr. Nishimoto owms is being
purchased by the Government under the terms of the law referred
to above.
You inquire as to whether this matter is under the jurisdic-
tion of the American Military Government in Japan. The answer is
that the law was brought into being under the general terms
of a directive from the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
dv
to the Japanese Government, and that its enforcement is being
supprvised by the occupation forces.
You also inquire as to what steps Mr. Nishimoto might take
if he does not wish to have his land purchased by the Government.
There would appear to be no such steps possible under the terms
of the law quoted above.
If I can be of any further assistance to you, please do not
hesitate to let me know.
CS/
Sincerely yours,
915
20
Edwin M. Martin, Chief
Division of Japanese and
Korean Economig Affairs
0
Mr. Minoru Yasui,
MAR
Tri-State Regional Representative,
-1447
Japanese American Citizens League,
National Headquarters,
412-415 Beason Building,
Salt Lake City 1, Utah.
bna.
2/27/47
JK:HOwen:il

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.95)
Japanese Americat Citizens League
NationalHeadquarters
412-415 BEASON BLDG.
TELEPHONE 5-6501
SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH
Tri-State Office:
615 E. & C. Building
17th and Curtis
Denver 2, Colorado
Phone: Cherry 5990
Feb. 14, 1947
894.52/2-1447
Mr. Edward M. Martin,
Division of Japanese and Korean Economic Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
Re: Real Property in Japan
Dear Sir:
We have in our offices, a Mr..Nakagoro Nishimoto,
a Japanese national, who owns real property in Japan. Un-
til recently, his mother was taking care of this property,
but on Feb. 17, 1946, she passed away, and a friend 1s tak-
ing over the management of the properties.
aw
However, he has received a communication from
Japan stating that the Japanese government is condemning
the property or taking it over under the right of eminent
domain. Evidently, there is no question of confiscation,
but rather redistribution of real estate in Japan to the
peasants. The friend in Japan has advised Mr. Nishimoto
that the property will be appropriated by March, 1947.
We would like to inquire whether such orders in
fact are being executed by the Japanese government? We
would also like to know whether this matter is under the
jurisdiction of the American Military Government in Japan?
In the event that Mr. Nishimoto does not desire to have
his land appropriated by the government, what steps should
he take?
FILED
C
We would appreciate any information that you can
S
give on this matter.
'947
f
 OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
fy truly
ypurs,
R
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS 
Minou
Aam
DEP RTMENT OF STATO:
9
Lettert mr rasue
FEF171947
MINORU YASUINat'L JACL
て
8915
Tri-State Regional Representative
19
1447
For Better Americans in A Greater America

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.95)
FORM DS-323
7-18-46
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
RESTRICTED
A-32
Washington,
Paute
NO.
Apr1l 18,1947
2433
NO DISTRIBUTION
2433
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER TO THE
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
TOKYO.
894.52/4-1847
740.00119 PW
The Japanese American Citizens League, Salt Lake City, Utah,
has inquired on behalf of Mr. Hiroshi Mito, a resident of Salt
Lake City and an American citizen, whether property which he owme
in Japan, consisting of 15 tan of farmland on which are a house
and the family graveyard, is subject to the condemnation pro-
X1
ceedings of the Japanese Government against agricultural property
under the land reform law.
MITU
The Department understands that the question of the applica-
bility of the land reform law to property in Japan owned by United
394.115
Nations nationals residing outside of Japan is presently before
SCAP (Agricultural Division). It will be appreciated if the
HIR OSHI
Department may be informed of any determination made in this res-
pect, and whether any measures are being taken whereby such property
would be exempted from condemnation proceedings under the Japanese
land distribution program. Any other information which may serve
as a basis for a reply to the Japanese American Citizens League
will also be appreciated.
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND XOREN
Acheson
Ceabero
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
CS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
Acting
JUI. 16 1947
A
(OFFICES ONLY)
(R)
894.52
41
14
w
CR CLEARANCE
JK:RBParke:mw
4/10/47
ESP
LE
NA
CR
AF.
18 1947P.M.
 U.S-GOYERMMENT PRINTING OFPFICE- 1D4G 714450
LRO

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
De/R
LEGATION OF SWEDEN
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
May 6, 1947
te
Mr. Richard E. Hibbard
SPECIAL PROJECTS
Department of State
147DIVISION
Room 721A
515 22nd Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C.
DEPATMENT OF STATE
Dear Mr. Hibbard:
Referring to our telephone conversation of today, I am pleased
894.52/5-647
to send you a copy of a letter dated April 30, 1947 from the Swedish
Vice Consulate in Honolulu, Territory of Hawaii, regarding certain
information concerning the Japanese new Land Reform Law requested by
Japanese nationals residing in Hawaii.
We would appreciate it very much if a copy of the said law
could be made available through the good offices of the Department of
State.
Sincerely yours,
K. H. ANDERSSON
CS/V
Attache
Enclosure
894.52
ab
5-647

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
SWEDISH VICE-CONSULATE
Department of Japanese Interests
Honolulu 3, T. H.
Apr1l 30, 1947
Legation of Sweden
Washington 8, D.C.
Attention of Mr. K. H. Andersson, Attache
Dear Sir:
We are as yet without authentic information regarding
the new Land Reform Lew of Japan. Rumors arising from private
letters to Japanese nationals residing here are that land held
by non-resident owners will be subject to sale by the Govern-
ment unless the cwner makes application for extension of time
for him to travel to Japan to attend to the disposal of the land
himself.
Requests by letter and cable to the Swedish Diplomatic
Representative in Tokyo have brought only the reply that he has
made repeated requests to the proper department of the Imperial
Government but received no response. In the meantime I am filling
out and certifying applications of land owners residing here,
for extension of time. These applications are addressed to the
Village Head of the village in which the land is located and
mailed to him with a letter asking him to acknowledge receipt
and advise what action may be taken on the petition. This is
"a shot in the dark", in the hope that it may result in giving
the absentee owner time to protect his interest as it may be
affected by the new law.
Would it be possible for your office to obtain any infor-
mation on this subject from the U. S. State Department? In thi
connection, what nation's governmont is now acting as the pro-
tecting power for Japan on the mainland United States? Fathers
(Japanese nationals) residiny here have sons on the mainland who
hold title to land in Japan. The fathers wish to advise them to
make application for extension of time to dispose of the land.
To whom should they go to have their signature to such applica-
tion certified? I regret that I am not able to answer them on
this point. They could have the application notarized, but a
consular official representing Japanese interests would have to
certify to the authenticity of the notary.
I shall appreciate any information and advice you can
give me in response to the above.
Very truly yours,
Gr W llong
GUSTAF W. OLSON
Vice-Consul

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.95)
SPD
 91947
AUR
My dear Mr. Andersson:
894.52/5-647
I have reeeived your letter of May 6, 1947 request-
ing a copy of the Japanese Land Reform Law for the imfer-
mation of the Swedish Vice Consulate im Monolulu, Terri-
tory of Hawaii.
The enclosed copy of the Land Reform Law 1s, as
the Department's understanding that the Law finally
passed by the Ninetieth Diet is not substantially differ-
ent froa this draft copy. The word "Restrioted" which
appears on each page of the draft Law may be disregarded
sinee the documems me longer bears a security olassifies-
tion. There is also enolosed a copy of the Japanese
Official Gazette of December 28, 1946, which contains,
begianing on page two, the tert of Imperial Ordinance
Number 620 concerning the Land Reform Law.
Sincerely yours,
REH
CS/V
10
Enclosures:
910
1. Draft copy of the
Japanese Land Reform
Lew, December 9, 1946.
2.
Japanese Ofricial Gazette,
December 28, 1946.
894.521
HB
Wr. Karl Henrik Anderason,
Attaché,
Legation of Sweden.
PNm
5/28/47
:rit
SPD: HCorkran: erk
JK

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGATION OFSWEDEN 5
WASHINGTON 8,D. CRECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
May 17, 1947
SPECIAL PROJECTS
1947 MAY 22 PM 3 59
DIVISION
MAY 2 7 1947
00/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECORDS BRANCH
Mr. Richard E. Hibbard
SPECIAL PROIECTS
DC/R
Department of State
Room 721A
844.
515 22nd Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C.
FT TO R FOR ENDE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Mr. Hibbard:
With reference to my letter of May 6th regarding
894.52/5-1747
information concerning the Japanese new Land Law, I have the
Ne
honor to inform you that we have received another letter from
the Swedish Vice Consul in Honolulu, a copy of which is
enclosed for your information.
Sincerely yours,
Ruth
K. H. ANDERSSON
Attache
Enclosure
A/JH/
CSM

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.97)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
DeIR
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
19 May 1947
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Corkran
Subject:
Enclosures.
894.52/5-1947
1. As you requested by telephone, I am enclosing herewith the
"Land Roform Law", also known as the Special Measure for the Establish-
ment of Owner-Farmers. You may disregard the classification appearing
on the cover sheet of this law since the material has now been declassi-
fied. You will note that the cover sheet states that the law is in
draft form; however, it is my understanding that the law was passed by
the 90th Diet without substantial amendment.
2. I am also enclosing herewith a copy of the Qfficial Gasette
containing on page 2 the enforcement regulations and other ordinances
relating to the "Land Reform Law".
3. I regret I do not have an official copy of the "Land Reform
Law".
Jramthlwme
Frank L. Turner
Research and Analysis Secretary
CS/V
894.52/5-1947

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.92)
FORM DS-516
5-13-47
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
CLERK'S
FILE NUMBER
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT
CHARGE TO-
DATE OF CHARGE
INITIALS
ep
894.52/6-2-47
728/
.w
Hesp -143 fhon Williamn
48
okyo

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGATION OF SWEDEN
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
June 10, 1947.
DWISI
PARTMENT OF STATE
Mr. Richard E. Hibbard
894.52/6-1047
Special Projects Division
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Deer Mr. Hibbard:
This is to acknowledge, with appreciation, your letter of
June 9th, transmitting a draft copy of the Japanese Land Reform Law and
a copy of the Japanese Official Gazette of 1946, containing Japanese
Imperial Ordinance Number 620 concerning the Land Reform Law.
Thanking you very much for your cooperation in this matter,
I am,
Very truly yours,
KWhhm
K. H. Andersson
Attache
CS/A
894.52/6-1047
A5

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.95)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
SION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
Tokyo, June 17, 1947
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
RESTRICTED
JUL141947
rlquind
No. 1118
y16
bg2
SUBJECT:
Application of Japanese Rural Land Reform Measures to
FRFEECP
The United States rolitical Adviser has the honor to refer to
this Mission's despatch No. 867, February 10, 1947, on the subject,
"Japanese Laws and Ordinances Relative to Rural Land Reform."
Reference is also made to the Departmentla airgram A+32, April 18,
1947, regarding the question of the applicability of the land reform
laws to property in Japan owned by United Nations nationals residing
outside Japan. The questions raised by the Department's airgram
under reference are under discussion at the present time in the
interested staff sections of this Headquarters, but as yet no
information on which to base a reply to the Department's communica-
894.52/4-1809
tion has been received by this Mission.
In the meantime, however, there are forwarded for the Depart
ESP
ment's information copies of certain correspondence between the
Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Swedish Diplomatic
COPIE.
Mission in Japan regarding the applicability of the new land reform
TC:
measures to Japanese subjects residing outside Japan:
LE
1. Note Verbale No. BB-122/47, April 25, 1947, from
FE
the Swedish Diplomatic Mission to Japanese Foreign Office
requesting (a) copies of farm land laws passed by 92nd
OCD
Session of the Diet and (b) information regarding feasibility
of postponing action on disposition of property of Japanese
resident in Hawaii.
was
2. Note Verbale No. BB-173/47 from Swedish Diplomatic
Mission to Japanese Foreign Office acknowledging receipt
CS/A
of copies of farm laws and forwarding further information
eis
from the Swedish Vice Consulate in Hawaii regarding the
applicability of the land reform laws to Japanese in Hawaii.
3. Note Verbale No. 35/L from Japanese Foreign Office
to Swedish Diplomatic Mission dated May 27, 1947, outlining
the views of the Japanese Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry regarding the application of the farm land reforf
FILED
program to Japanese in Hawaii.
2
4. Note Verbale No. 39/R.J., June 6, 1947, from the
Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Swedish Missi
194.5
requesting the latter to disseminate among the Japanese 
resident in Mexico, reru, and Brazil, as well as Hawaii,
information with regard to the Farm Land Reform.
Although
701 118
DELTBIWENI OL 21VIE
1E OL ECONOWID 2ECOBI11 

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's No. 1118
June 17, 1947
-2-
Although copies of the statute book covering the land reform
laws, sent with the Japanese note No. 39/R.J. (enclosure No. 4),
are not being forwarded, copy of a brief explanatory note prepared
by the Japanese Foreign Office on the subject is transmitted for
the Department's information.
Enclosures:
As listed above.
Original and ozalid to Department
704/852
JWBurnett:rab
lor

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 1118 dated June 17, 1947 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokye, on the
subject, "Application of Japanese Rural Land Reform Measures
to Japanese Subjects Residing Abroad".
COPY
SWEDISH DIPLOMATIC LISSICN
Ref. BB-122/47.
URGENT
Note Verbale.
The Swedish Diplomatic Mission in Japan presents its
compliments to the Imperial Ministry for Foreign Affairs and,
referring to the former's note verbale BB-84/47, dated 6th
March, 1947, has the honour to indicate that, since the Japan-
ese nationals who reside in Hawaii and own land in Japan, are
greatly concerned about the protection of their interests, it
would be highly desirable that the Imperial Ministry, without
delay, provide this Mission with copies of the new Farm Land
Law as recuested in above-mentioned note verbale. Japanese
nationals in Hawaii have also raised the question whether the
disposition of their land under the new Reform Law can be post-
poned on application by those who wish to go to Japan in the
near future and this Mission has the honcur to request the
Imperial Ministry to furnish its comments thereon.
Tokyo, 25th April, 1947.
Imperial Ministry for Foreign Affairs,
Tokyo.
COPY

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 1118 dated June 17, 1947 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Application of Japanese Rural Land Reform Measures
to Japanese Subjects Residing Abroad".
COPY
SWEDISH DIPLOMATIC LISSION
Ref. BB-173/47
Note Verbale
The Swedish Diplomatic Mission in Japan presents its
compliments to the Imperial Ministry for Foreign Affairs and
has the honour to acknowledge receipt of the latter's note
verbale No. 31/R.J., dated 30th April, 1947, with copies of
the new Farm Land Law which have been duly transmitted to the
Swedish Vice-Consulate at Honolulu, in charge of Japanese
interests in the Territory of Hawaii.
The said Vice-Consulate has, today, further communicated
to this Mission the following:
"The anxiety over the provisions of Japanese Farm Land
Law is very great among the nunerous owners living in
the Territory of Hawaii. The first notice of sale
seen here was received on 6th May by Suekichi Kikuchi
from the Chairman of the Farmland Committee at Fuku-
shima-ken, Adachi-gun, Motomiya-machi, postmarked 28th
March, and notifying him that his land would be sold on
3lst March. This seems unreasonably unfair to owners
here, most of whom are elderly people who planned to
return to their homeland to live on their land, and
who have ample means to do so as soon as permission
can be obtained from the United States State Depart-
ment. Please appeal to the Japanese Government
Authorities to grant an extensjon of time to owners
here, who make an application."
The Mission has the honour to request the Imperial
inistry to furnish its comments, if any, on the above, upon
receipt of which this Mission will transmit them to the Royal
Vice-Consulate at Honolulu.
Tokyo, 16th May, 1947.
COPY

=== Page 206 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 1118 dated June 17, 1947 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Application of Japanese Rural Land Reform Measures
to Japanese Subjects Residing Abroad".
COPY
No. 35/LJ
Note Verbale.
The Japanese Linistry of Foreign Affairs presents its
compliments to the Swedish Diplomatic Mission in Japan, and
has the honor to acknovledge the receipt, on 5 May 1947, of
the latter's Note Verbale BB-122/47 dated 25 April 1947,
concerning the Japanese nationals residing in the Territory
of Hawaii and the new Farm Land Law of Japan.
In reply, the Ministry begs to state that the copies of
the new Farm Land Law of Japan, the request for which was
renewed in the Mission's Note Verbale under reference, have been
forwarded under cover of the Ministry's Note Verbale No. 3l/R.J.
of 30 April 1947 addressed to the Mission. The Ministry will
appreciate it if the Mission is good enough to take appropriate
action with respect to them.
As regards the question mentioned in the concluding portion
of the reference Note Verbale of the Mission, as to whether, in
the case of the Japanese nationals in the Hawaii who wish to come
to Japan in the near future, the disposition of their land under
the new Farm Land Law can be postponed on application, the views
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry of Japan are to the
following effect:
1. Under the farm land reform program, which is scheduled
to be completed by the end of 1948, the buying up of farm land
is already in progress. To postpone the buying-up procedure in
the case of some particular non-resident owners would not be
permissible from the viewpoint of providing the prospective buyers
with fair and equal opportunities of buying and also from other
overall considerations. However, the land custodians in Japan
who represent the interests of non-resident owners in the latter's
behalf, may make such complaints as may be necessary to the
Agricultural Land Commission of the city, town or village concerned,
in respect of the land to be bought up, the terms and procedures
of buying up, etc. The non-resident owners themselves may, if
necessary, address without delay to the said Commission, in
writing, what they have to say in connection with these matters.
2. Under the farm land reform program, as is stipulated
in the relevant laws and regulations, the rule is that a farm
land, of which the owner, as of 23 November 1945, is not resident
in the same city, town or village where the farm land is located,
the said farm land is necessarily to be bought up as the farm
land of a non-resident owner, except in cases where the owner is
away from the said locality owing to admission to a school,
disease, military enlistment, or other unavoidable causes, and
where there is also such special cause as indicates that the said
owner has a close relationship with the said locality. However,
the stipulation relating to "cases where there is a special cause",
which

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 1118 dated June 17, 1947 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Application of Japanese Rural Land Reform Measures
to Japanese Subjects Residing Abroad".
- 2 -
which enables a non-resident owner to be regarded as a resident
owner in this connection, is interpreted in a very narrow sense;
the fact of residing in a foreign country is not deemed to be
such a cause, and consequently does not warrant the application
of the special exceptional provisions.
Such being the case, the farm lands in Japan of Japanese
nationals in the Hawaii, even if they shortly return to this
country, are necessarily to be bought up as those of non-resident
owners.
3. In short, if the Japanese nationals in the Hawaii rely
upon the custodians of their farm lands in Japan in safeguarding
their interests, the custodians may be expected to take all the
necessary steps in their behalf. 1f, however, they find them-
selves unable to rest thus assured, they may directly address
without delay, in writing, statements of their cases to the
Agricultural Land Commission (Nochi-iinkai) of the city, town or
village concerned.
The Foreign Ministry would be grateful if the Mission would
take appropriate steps to cause the above to be brought to the
knowledge of the interested Japanese nationals residing in Hawaii.
In so far as the foregoing paragraph 3 is concerned, the ministry
will be glad to act, if necessary as through channel between the
absentee owners and Land Commissions.
27 May 1947.
Swedish Diplomatic Mission,
T o k y o.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 1118 dated June 17, 1947 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Application of Japanese Rural Land Reform Measures
to Japanese Subjects Residing Abroad".
COPY
THE GAIMUSHO
TOKYO
No. 39/R.J.
Note Verbale.
The Japanese Linistry of Foreign Affairs presents its
compliments to the Swedish Diplomatic Mission in Japan and has
the honour to ackmowledge with thanks the receipt on 23 May 1947
of the latter's Note Verbale BB-174/47, dated 16 May, informing
the Ministry of the Comaunication rom the Swedish Vice-Consulate
at Honolulu, concerning the application of the Farm Land Reform
Law.
In reply, the Ministry begs to state the views of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry as to whether, in the case
of Japanese nationals in the Hawaii coming back to Japan in the
near future, the disposal of their farm lands can be postponed
on application, have been forwarded under cover of the Ministry's
Note Verbale No. 35/LJ of 27 May 1947 addressed to the Mission.
As it is considered highly probable that the same question and
anxieties about the Farm Land Reform are arising among Japanese
nationals abroad, the inistry has prepared a brief explanatory
note about it, five copies of which and of statutes book are
appended hereto, which might prove of some help for the Japanese
concerned to get a rudimental knowledge about the said legislation.
It would be deeply appreciated if the Mission be good enough
to forward the ahove-mentioned documents to Hawaii, Mexico, Peru
and Brazil where the Japanese populations are sizable among
countries in which Japanese interests are protected by the Swedish
Government. The Ministry will be glad to make and forward
additional copies of the explanatory note if so required.
The Ministry desires to express its thanks and appreciation,
in advance, to the Mission for the latter's courtesy in this
matter.
6 June,1947
Enclosure:
five copies each of statutes book
concerning Farm Land Reform and
of explanatory note about it.
COPY

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 1118 dated June 17, 1947 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Application of Japanese Rural Land Reform Measures
to Japanese Subjects Residing Abroad".
- 2 -
A BRIEF EXPLANATICN ALOUT THE FAR. LAND
REFORL PROGRAILE FOR JAPANESE NATIONALS ABROAD.
Prepared by the ministry of Foreign Affairs.
1. Introduction:
On December 9tn 1945, the Japanese Government received a
memorandum from the General Headquarters, Supreme Comaander for
the Allied Powers, under the subject of "Rural Land Reform"
which reads, in part, as follows: (see the appendix)
"In order that the Imperial Japanese Government shall re-
move economic obstacles to the revival and strengthening of
democratic tendencies, establish respect for the dignity of man
and destroy the economic bondage which has enslaved the Japanese
farmer for centuries of feudal oppression, Imperial Government
is directed to take measures to insure that those who till the
soil of Japan shall have a more equal opportunity to enjoy the
fruits of their labor."
"The Japanese Iperial Government is therefore ordered to
submit to this Headquarters on or before 15 March 1946 a pro-
gram of rural land reform. This program shall contain plans
for:
a.
Transfer of land ownership from absentee land owners
to land operators.
b.
Provisions for purchase of farm lands from non-
operating owners at ecuitable rates.
C.
Provisions for tenant purchase of land at annual
instrunents commensurate with tenant income.
d.
Provisions for reasonable protection of former tenants
against reversion to tenancy status ....."
Upon receipt of the above memorandum preparations in compli-
ance with the memorandun were made by the Japanese Government
and the laws setting the programmes were enacted by the Diet
and were put into force on December 29th 1946.
It is stipulated for the Government to see to that
the entire Programme be completed by the end of 1948, and
farm lands of approximately two million (2,000,000) "Cho-bu"
(one "Cho-bu" corresponds to about two and hal acres) are
expected to be bought up and resold by the Government to the
tenant farmers engaged in cultivation at the time of purchase
or other persons likely to devote themselves to cultivation
as

=== Page 210 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 1118 dated June 17, 1947 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Application of Japanese Rural Land Refora Measures
to Japanese Subjects Residing Abroad".
-3-
as owner-farmers. It is reported as at the end of March 1947
that farm land of about one hundred and fifty thousand (150,000)
"Cho-bu" have already been purchased under the said Programme.
2. Legislations for the Programme.
The Farm Land Reform Programme consists of two major
legislations; Owner Farmer Establishment Special Measure Law
and Agricultural Land Adjustment Law, the former stipulating
the procedure by which the Government purchases the farm lands
and distributes them among tenant-farmers, the latter providing
for the establishment of Agricultural Land Commission, which is
the executive organ of this Programme, and is responsible for
the control of lease, transfer and price of farm land.
3. Lands to be purchased by the Government under the Programme.
(1) The following three kinds of land are mandatorily to
be purchased by the Government.
a. Non-resident owner's tenant-farmer land.
All the tenant-farmer land owned by a person who has his
permanent residence ("Jusho") outside the limit of a City,
Town or Village in which his tenant-farmer land is situated.
b. Portion of resident owner's tenant-farmer land exceeding
one (1) "Cho-bu" (in Hokkaido four (4) "Chobu").
c. Portion of resident owner's tenant-farmer land which
makes the total with the farm land cultivated by the owner
area to exceed three (3) "Cho-bu" (in Hokkaido twelve (12)
"Cho-bu".)
(2) The following six kinds of land is purchased by
the Government when the Agricultural Land Coumission concerned
deems it suitable for the purpose of establishing owner-farmers.
a. The owmer-farmer land exceeding three (3) "Cho-bu" and
the cultivation of which does not seen efficient.
b. The owner-farmer land cultivated by a person other
than the owner by contract other than tenancy.
c. The farm land owned and operated by juridical person
or other cooperation vhose cultivation efficiency is
deemed poor.
d. The tenant-farmer land owned by juridical person or
other coorporation.
e. The farm land left uncultivated by a person entitled
to cultivate it.
f. Other farm land offered by owners for sale.
4. Farm

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 1118 dated June 17, 1947 from
the United States rolitical Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Application of Japanese Rural Land Reform Measures
to Japanese Subjects Residing Abroad".
-4-
4. Farn Lands of Non-resident owmer abroad.
Under the Farm Land Reform Programme, as is stipulated in
the relevant laws and regulations, it is provided that a farm
land, of which the owner, retroactively as of 23 November 1945,
is not resident in the City, Town or Village where the farm
land is located, the same land is necessarily to be bought up
as farm land belonging to non-resident owner, except in cases
where the owmer is temporarily away from the said locality
for school attendance, medical care, military enlistment or
other unavoidable causes. However, the stipulation relating
to "unavoidable causes" which enables a non-resident owner to
be regarded as a resident owner in this connection, is
interpreted in a very narrow sense; the fact of residing in
a foreign country is not deemed to be such a cause, and con-
secuently does not warrant the application of the special
exceptional provisions.
1t is evident therefore, that the farm land in Japan
owned by Japanese nationals whether at home or abroad, even
if they shortly return to the spot, inevitably to be pur-
chased by the Government as farn land of non-resident owners.
5. Executive Organs for the Farm Land Reform Programme.
The plan of purchase, consideration (price) and time of
purchase are decided not by the Government itself but by
the Agricultural Land Commission of a City, Towm or Village,
which is usually composed of ten elected members, three from
land owners not engaged in cultivation, five from tenant
farmers and two from owner-farmers. When the Agricultural
Land Commission of a City, Town or Village sets up the plan
for the purchase of the farm land, public notice thereof
shall be served without delay and the document stating the
following matters be subaitted to public inspection at the city,
or village office for ten days from the day on which public
notice has been iven.
a. Name and permanent residence of the owner of the
agricultural land to be purchased.
b.
The locaticn, lot number, class and size of the land
to be purchased:
Consideration:
d. Time of urchase:
If any

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 1118 dated June 17, 1947 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Application of Japanese Rural Land Reform Measures
to Japanese Subjects Residing Abroad".
- 5 -
If any person who is entitled to ownership is dissatisfied
with regard to the decision of the Agricultural Land Commission
he may file complaints to the said Commission during the period
of time for inspection mentioned above.
If the Agricultural Land Commission receives the complaints
mentioned above, it will make a decision within twenty days
after the inspection period.
The applicant who is not satisfied with the decision
mentioned in the preceding paragraph may file a petition with
the Agricultural Land Commission of the Prefecture concerned
within ten days of the decision.
If the above-said Agricultural Land Commission receives
the petition mentioned in the preceding paragraph, it will make
a ruling within twenty days from the day on which the period
of time mentioned in the latter part of the preceding paragraph
has expired.
The purchase will ultimately be effected by means of
delivery of the writ of purchase by the prefectural governor
to the owner of the said land. In cases where the writ cannot
be delivered to the owner by reason of being unknown or other-
wise a public notice of the matter is served.
6. Payment by the Government to the owner.
Payment by the Government for the land urchasedconsists
of consideration and subsidy. The amount of the consideration
for each lot to be  urchased is decided by the Commission
within the limit of the aaount which represents forty (40)
times the rental velue for paddy field and forty-eight (48)
times for upland field, thus usually giving the owner about
seven hundred and sixty yen ¥ 760) per one "Tan" (one-tenth of
one "chobu") of paddy field and four hundred and fifty yen
($ 45C) for upland field, while the amount of subsidy is
decided by the Government with the standard of two hundred and
twenty yen (¥ 220) for paddy field and one hundred and thirty
yen (¥ 130) for upland field per one "Tan" each.
The owner can receive the payment in each up to four
thousand yen ($ 4,000), but the rest of the amount is paid by
annual instalments with interests of 3.2% per year within the
period of thirty years.
7. Conclusion
It is presumed that the Japanese residents abroad heretofore
have had their proxies or custodians for their properties in
Japan, who may now be expected to take all the necessary steps
in their behalf for safeguarding their interests. If, however,
they find themselves unable to rest thus reassured, they may
directly address to the Agricultural Land Commission (Nochi-
Iin-Kai) of the City, Town or Village where their farm lands
are

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 1118 dated June 17, 1947 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Application of Japanese Rural Land Reform Measures
to Japanese Subjects Residing Abroad".
-6-
situated. It goes without saying that the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs will be always glad to act, if necessary, as a through
channel for the Japanese nationals abroad.
Note: The disposal of farm lands owned by the
Allied nationals is being held in abeyance
pending a definite indication by the SCAP
authorities as to whether the Farm Land
Reform Legislation should be made applicable
to them.
Appendix
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AG 602.6 (9 Dec. 45) CIE
9 December 1945
.EMORANDUM FOR:
ILPERIAI JAPANESE GOVERNLENT.
THROUGH
●●
Central Liaison Office, Tokyo.
SUBJECT
Rural Land Reform.
1. In order that the Imperial Japanese Government shall
remove economic obstacles to the revival and strengthening
of democratic tendencies, establish respect for the dignity of
man and destroy the economic bondage which has enslaved the
Japanese farmer for centuries of feudal oppression, the Japanese
Iaperial Government is directed to take measures to insure that
those who till the soil of Japan shall have a more equal
opportunity to enjoy the fruits of their labor.
2. The purpose of this order is to exterminate those
permicious ills which have long blighted the agrarian struc-
ture of a land where almost half the total population is
engaged in husbandry. The more malevolent of these ills include.
a. Intense overcrowding of land. Almost half the farm
households in Japan till less than one and one half
acres each.
b. Widespread tenancy under conditions highly unfavorable
to tenants.
More than three-fourths of the farmers in Japan are
either partially or totally tenants, paying rentals
amounting to half or more of their annual crops.
C. A heavy

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 1118 dated June 17, 1947 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Application of Japanese Rural Land Reform Measures
to Japanese Subjects Residing Abroad".
-7 -
c. A heavy burden of farm indebtedness combined with
high rates of interest on farm loans.
Farm indebtedness persists so that less than half
the total farm households are able to support themselves
on their agriculture income.
d. Governaent fiscal policies w ich discriminate against
agriculture in favor of industry and trade.
Interest rates and direct taxes on agriculture are
more oppressive than those in conmerce and industry.
e. Authoritative government control over farmers and
farm organization Without regard for farmer interests.
Arbitrary crop quotas established by disinterested
control associations often restrict the farmer in the
cultivation of crops for his own needs or economic
advancement.
Emancipation of the Japanese farmer cannot begin until
such basic farim evils are uprooted and destroyed.
3. The Japanese Imperial Government is therefore ordered
to submit to this head uarters on or before 15 March 1946
a program of rural 1und reform. This program shall contain plans
for:
a. Transfer of land ownership from absentee land owners
to land operators.
b. Provisions for urchase of farm lands from non-operating
owners at equitable rates.
c. Provisions for tenant urchase of land at annual
installments comensurate with tenant income.
d. Provisions for reasonable protection of former tenants
against reversion to tenancy status. Such necessary safe-
guards should include:
(1)
Access to long and snort term farm credit at
reasonable interest rates.
(2)
Measures to protect the farmer against exploitation
by processors and distributors.
(3)
Measures to stabilize prices of agricultural produce.
(4)
Plans for the diffusion of technical and other
information of assistance to the agrarian population.
(5)
A pro ram to foster and encourage an agricultural
cooperative movement free of domination by nonagrarian
interests and dedicated to the economic and cultural
advancement of the Japanese farmer.
e. The

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 1118 dated June 17, 1947 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Application of Japanese Rural Land Reform Measures
to Japanese Subjects Residing Abroad".
-8 -
e. The Jaanese Imperial Government is requested to
subait in addition to the above, such other proposals it deems
necessary to guarantee to agriculture a share of the national
income commensurate with its contribution.
FOR THE SUPREME COMEANDER:
H.W. ALLEN,
Colonel, A.G.D.
Asst. Adjutant General.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Yokohama Branch
No. 411
arclosaifed
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser,
Yokohama, Japan.
June 17, 1947.
RESTRIOTED
Subject:
Application of Japanese Agrarian Land Reform
Measures to Property of American Citizens.
0
THE HONORABLE
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
JUL8-18434.52/4-1842 /
)/h
WASHINGTON.
394.115 mito, tiroa
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's airgram
no. 32 of April 18, 1947, to the United States Political
894.52/6-1747
Adviser, Tokyo, which has been referred to this office,
concerning the aprlication of the Japanese agrarian land
reform measures to rroperty owmed in Japan by American cit-
izens.
This question has been under consideration by the
various sections of General Headquarters, Supreme Command-
ACTION
ESP
er for the Allied Powers concerned, since the receipt of
the Department's airgram. It has not been possible to
COPIES
reach any conclusion, and the Natural Resources Section
TO:
Fr
now states that the question has been referred to the War
Pepartment to obtain a final decision.
LE
As it is thought that the Department will probably be
consulted, and will be concerned with the decision, there
FE
is enclosed, as of possible interest and helpfulness, a
copy of a check sheet dated May 16, 1947, from the Legal
OCD
Section to the Natural Resources Section of GHQ SCAP. This
Fc
checlk sheet constitutes, in our opinion, a careful and com-
petent study of the problem.
DCR
There is also enclose a copy of pertinent portions
CS/JRC
of a check sheet of May 28, 1947, from the Natural Resources
Ggei
Section to this office adequately summarizing the agrarian
land reform measures, and setting forth the opinion that,
whatever final decision may be reached with regard to the
treatment under the measures of land owmed by United Nat-
€ 1s
ions nationals, no consideration should be given to excep-
tional treatment for land acquired by such nationals after
the effective date of the measures. This latter question
arose through several letters received by this office,
directly from the United States, requesting protection for
property which had purportedly been transferred from the
owmership of Japanese nationals residing in the United
States to American citizens after the effective date of the
agrarian land reform measures. While we are in agreement
with the position of Natural Resources and other concerned
staff sections with regard to this latter question, it is
also thought that the purported transfer of title is prob
ably without other legal effect in Japan at the present
2058 190
WAS
2
/time,
DEIWENL O 
nea

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTH
-2-
time, and may not properly be recognized. Therefore, re-
plies to the letters, which will be transmitted through
the Department, are being delayed pending the receipt of
authoritative information from the Economic and Scientific
Section on this point.
In reaching a decision on the problem of land owmed
by American or other United.lations nationals prior to the
effective date of the measures, it is thought that consider-
ation should be given to the possibility that some of the
land may have been held by persons having a dual citizenship
status, i.e. while United Nations nationals, the parties
concerned may in some cases also have Japanese nationality,
and hold property in Japan as Japanese nationals. This is
thought to be a particularly strong possibility in the
cases of persons of Japanese parentage born in the United
States.
Respectfally yours,
U. Alexis Johnson
American ConsuX
as
Enclosures:
1. Copy of check sheet
dated May 16, 1947.
2. Copy of rertinent por-
tions of chec: sheet
dated May 20, 1947.
350
UAJohnson/im
Distribution:
Orig. & lhecto to ept.
Copy to Tokyo.
Two copics for files.
RESTREOTED

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch
No. 411 dated June 17, 1947,
from Yokohama, Japan.
REOTRIOTED
GEHERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE COMMAIDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
CHECK SHEET
File No.:
Subject: Applicability of Japanese
Agrarian Reform Laws to
American Citizens.
From: Legal Section
To: Natural Re-
Date: 16 May 1947
sources
Section
Note No. 1
I. PROBLEM:
The Natural Resources Section has requested an opinion
as to whether the Imperial Japanese Government may expro-
priate farm lands in Japan belonging to American citizens
pursuant to general lerislation on social reforms, appli-
cable alike to nationals and aliens, if compensation for
the expropriation is payable to such citizens in Yen cur-
rency of a presently unkno:m international monetary value.
II. FACTS:
1. The Japanese Government, embarking on an agrarian
land reform program, enacted on 11 October 1946, the Owner-
Farmer Establishment Special Measures Law and the Agricul-
tural Land Adjustment Law. Both of these laws, favorably
considered by SCAP, were promulgated by the Japanese Govern-
ment on 21 October 1946.  The laws provided for the purchase
by the Japanese Government of agricultural land, owmed by
absentee owners and corporations whose principal business
was other than cultivation, and also land owned in excess of
certain specified holdings. The average price to be paid to
the land owmers ranges from approximately Yen 446 to Yen 757
per 1/4 acre. The purpose of these enactments was to mini-
mize farm tenancy by enabling tenants to purchase the land
they cultivate and to guarantec proper conditions of tenancy
to those who continue to farm as tenants.
2. In support of the Japanese laws, from an internation-
al law point of view it is claimed that:
a. Since the Japanese statutes do not discriminate
either for or against oimers or tenants on the grounds of
race, nationality, creed, or political opinion, and,
b. Since American citizens legally acquiring Japan-
ese agricultural lands prior to the enactment of the land
reform laws did so with the knowledge, express or implied,
that property owmed in Japan was subject to any laws enacted
by the Japanese Government, and,
RESTRICTED
/c. Since

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2 of Enclosure No. 1 to
Despatch No. 41l dated June
RESTRTCTED
17, 1947, from Yokohama, Japan.
c. Since the statutes do not confiscate the land
but provide for payment in Yen, which is far in excess of
prices prevailing during the period the land was acquired
by such citizens,
that, therefore in view of these factors, all agricultural
lands within the territorial jurisdiction of the Japanese
Government are, regardless of the nationality of their own-
ers, subject to agrarian land reform laws.
3. If this contention is true, American absentee land
owners will be deprived of their property and receive as
compensation therefor a currency with no present foreign
exchange value. The Legal Section does not believe that the
payment in Yen under the circunstances suffices to make an
othervwise illegal confiscatory measure legal.
III. DISCUSSION:
4. a. Generally speaking, expropriation is the taking
of private property for public use provided compensation is
paid. It is similar to the right of eminent domain under
American law. It is the conpulsary taking of private prop-
erty from a person and is distinguishable from an act of
confiscation in that cxpropriation requires payment for such
property. As a well recognized principle of international
law, expropriation of foreign property obligates the State
to indennify foreign omers. This rule has been justified
by authoritics on the subject as based on natural law, sound
reason, equity, and justice. In any event, for the purposes
of a solution to the stated  ro lem it wili be assumed that
the Japanese Government was legally vithin its right to ex-
propriate farn land under its jurisdiction upon making pay-
ment therefor. The 1 roblem therefore resolves itself into
determining, not whether the Japanese Government could leg-
ally take farm land oimed by American nationals, but whether
in so taking it, the requirenents of compensation were met.
b. Nor coula the fact that the Supreme Commander's
favorable consideration of the statutes be interpreted as
sanctioning confiscatory legisletion, since it could not be
anticipated that a lawful act vould be unlavfully applied.
The real issue, therefore, is tc cetermine if payment in
Yen to American oimers of farm land in Japan, meets the re-
quirements set by international law.
5. a. A case practically identical in all respects to
the situation under iscussion arose betveen the United
States and Mexico vith recard to the Hexican expropriation
of agrarian properties which began in 1915. By 1938, the
United States pointed out to the Mexican Government that it
had not cid for any of the property taken from American
citizens end inquired of Mexico what its intentions were in
the natter. As a result of the exchange of notes between
the two governments on the subject there was crystalized
the United States position on the question of what consti-
tutes compensation for expropriated property taken from
American citizens.
/b. The
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3 of Enclosure No. 1 to
Despatch No. 411 dated June 17,
1947, from Yokohama, Japan
b. The United States contended that expropriation
unaccompanied by provision "for adequate, effective and
prompt payment for the property seized" is internationally
illegal. Mexico admitted that she was under an obligation
to indemnify in an adequate manner but that the time and
manner of such payment must be determined by her own laws.
The Mexican position was, in substance, that when an alien,
however lawfully, acquires land within Mexican territory,
he does so subject to the condition that the territorial
sivereign, when enbarked upon a policy of social betterment
through agrarian reform, may have recourse to expropriation
on such terms as it may devise, so long as they are impar-
tial in application as between nationals and aliens. It
was contended by Mexico that the future of the nation, when
committed to such a policy, may not be halted by the impos-
sibility of paying immediately the value of the properties
belonging to a small number of foreigners seeking "only a
lucrative end." (32 AJIL 759, Oct 1938)
c. In reply to this Mexican pretension, the United
States Secretary of State liull declared:
"Reduced to its essential terms, the contention
asserted by the Mexican Government, as set forth
in its reply and as evidenced by its practices
in recent years, is plainly this: That any gov-
ernment may on the ground that its municipal
legislation so permits, or on the plea that its
financial situation makes prompt and adequate
compensation onerous or impossible, seize prop-
erties omed by foreigners within its jurisdic-
tion, utilize them for whatever purpose it
sees fit, and refrain from providing effective
payment therefor, cither at the time of seizure
or any assured time in the future. I do not
hesitate to maintain that this is the first oc-
casion in the history of the Western Hemisphere
that such a theory has been seriously advanced.
In the opinion of my government, the doctrine so
proposed runs counter to the basic precepts of
international law and of the law of every Amer-
ican republic, as well as to every principle of
right and justice upon which the institutions
of the American republics are founded. It seems
to the Covernment of the United States a conten-
tion alien to the history, the spirit and the
ideals of democracy as practiced throughout the
independent life of all the nations of this con-
tinent."
6. a. In 1924 when the Rumanian Government declined to
give assurances that if property of American citizens in
Bessarabia should be expropriated adequate compensation would
be paid, the United States took the position that:
"Should property in Bessarabia belonging to Ameri-
can citizens be expropriated they would under the
generally accepted principles of international
law, be entitled to adequate compensation and
/that
RESTPIOTRD

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 4 of Enclosure No. 1 to
Despatch No. 411 dated June 17,
RBOTRIOTED
1947, from Yokohama, Japan.
that it is not necessary for this Government to
resort to any special agreement in order to ob-
tain for its nationals the treatment to which
they are justly entitled under the law of nat-
ions." (Hackworth Vol. I, p 21)
b. Also in 1922 a similar stand was taken by the
United States vhen it insisted that just compensation be
made for the expropriation by the Chinese authorities of
property omed by American citizens. (Hackworth Vol III
p 654)
7. a. The American Bar Association, in a study on this
problem stated:
"If therefore, a state contends that it may, in
an international sense, not improperly deprive
an alien of his lawfully acquired land within
its domain without full compensation when he has
had no reason to anticipate such a deprivation,
and when he would not have made his acquisition
had he been apprised of such a contingency, its
action is utterly lacking in the essentials of
good faith. For that reason, it places itself
outside the domain of international law when it
endeavors to vindicate such a course." (Hyde
Inter. Law, p 717)
b. The Fernanent Court of International Justice stat-
ed with respect to expropriation proceedings that: "Such a
measure leads to an international obligation to pay compen-
sation for the value taken," and, in another case, said
"lawful expropriation vould have brought about the obligation
to pay cash compensation for direct losses." (Am. Journ. of
Inter. Law, Apr 41, p 253).
8. a. There can be no question but that expropriation
of foreign property obligates the expropriator to indemnify
the foreign owmer. Japanese legislation recognizes this
principle and accordingly makes provision for compensation.
Nevertheless this Section doubts whether the Japanese pro-
visions for payment under the circumstances of the present
belligerent occupation meets the test of "adequate effective
and prompt" compensation as laid dowm by the United States
in the Mexican agrarian dispute. In that controversy the
American view that compensation, to be "adequate", was inter-
preted to mean that it should equalize the full loss sustain-
ed by the ovmer in consequence of the taking of the property
concerned. The time of payment was considered an important
factor because, if payment were deferred, the total amount
would fail to be fully compensatory if it did not make pro-
vision, among other things, for interest on the investment,
or for loss or benefits to the owmer after the property was
taken and prior to payment. (IHyde Inter. Law, p 718). How-
ever, more concrete is the rule that only full and immediate
compensation in cash fulfills the conditions of international
law. (Am. Journ. of Inter. Law, Apr 41, p 259).
/b. With

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 5 of Enclosure No. 1 to
Despatch No. 411 dated June 17,
1947, from Yokohama, Japan.
b. With respect to the question of compensation in
the Mexican controversy Secretary of State Hull informed
the Mexican Government that:
"The taking of property without compensation
is not expropriation. It is confiscation. It
is not less confiscation because there may be
an expressed intent to pay at some time in the
future. If it were permissible for a govern-
ment to take the private property of the cit-
izens of other countries and pay for it as and
when, in the judgment of that government, its
economic circunstances and its local legisla-
tion may perhaps permit, the safeguards which
the Constitutions of most countries and estab-
lished international law have sought to provide
would be illusory. Covernments would be free
to take property far beyond their ability or
willingness to pay, tnd the owners thereof
would be without recourse. We cannot question
the right of a foreign government to treat its
own nationals in this fashion if it so desires.
This is a matter of domestic concern. But we
cannot admit that a foreign government may take
the property of American nationals in disregard
of the rule of compensation under international
law. Nor can ve admit that any government uni-
laterally and throuch its municipal legislation
can, as in this instant case, nullify this uni-
versally accerted Irinciple of international
law, based as it is on reason equity and jus-
tice." (Haclworth Vo1.III. p 656)
c. And again in a lcter note to the Mexican Govern-
ment, the Secretary of State declared that:
"The Covernment of the United States merely
adverts to a self-evident fact when it notes
that the applicable precedents and recognized
authorities on international law support its
declaration that, under every rule of law and
equity, no overnnent is entitled to expropriate
private property, for whatever purpose, without
provision for pronpt, adequate, and effective
payment therefor. In addition, clauses appear-
ing in the constitution of the Anerican repub-
lics, ombody tho principle of just compensation.
Those, in hensclves, are declaratory of the
like principle in the law of nations." (Page
193 of Cfficial Docunents - AJIL Oct 38)
9. a. It has been sugcested that if the American theory
be duly respected, 
"torritorial sovereign may find its very right
to expropriate conditioned upon its power to
pay and that if it sought to exercise that
right vhen evidence of the possession of such
/power
RESTRESTED

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 6 of Enclosure No. 1 to
Despatch Ho. 41l dated June 17,
1947, from Yokohama, Japan.
power and the disposition to use it are not
evident, there is reason to demand there be
restored to the omers what may have been
taken from them." (Hyde Inter. Law, p 720)
b. Thus, if this be the consequence of the Japan-
ese agrarian land reform measure, its advocates may seek
consolation in the fact that modern social reforms under
unusually difficult economic conditions cannot and should
not be effected at the expense of a policy which would re-
sult in collapse of international economic and commercial
relations which might imperil the very foundations of civil-
ization. At least such was the opinion of the Secretary of
State in 1938. (32 AJIL, Oct 1938, 0ff. Doc. p 194).
10. a. Compensation in a derreciated yen currency is not
the fiscal equivalent of "adequate effective and prompt"
compensation or "just coupensation" in accordance with the
requirements set by international law to counterbalance the
fuil loss suffered by the absentee owmer. Payments in a
debased currency, as in the present case, would act to the
discrimination of, and financiel loss to an American ovmer.
When a debasement of currency hes resulted in financial
loss to its citizens, thc United States, in a case where
the Spanish Government attempted to discharge its debts
in a depreciated currency, stated that:
"The injustice of this is manifest. Between
discharging & delt by Taying one half of its
nominal tmount tnd the whole of its nominal
amount possessing only one helf its real value,
there is no difference." (Moore Vol VI, p 753)
b. The present problem roes even further than that
of payment in a depreciated currency in view of the fact
that the present Japanese Yen has no foreign exchange value.
The most that cen be said for the yen is that at some time
in the future it may be of some value. Such contingencies
do not meet the standerds of the international rule of law
for expropriation as enunciated by the United States.
Therefore, the taking of property ond discharging the in-
debtednesh for so talking by payment in a currency which is
of no value to the absentee owmer would be confiscation
and not expropriation. Payment in this currency would
create in the Japenese Government an additional purchasing
power and allow it to obtain possession of this property
at low prices to the detriment of the absentee owner.
IV. OFIHIOH:
11. It is the opinion of the Legal Section that the
proposed expropriation by the Imperial Japanese Government
of agrarian property owmed by American citizens which was
legally acquired prior to the enactment of the agrarian
land reform laws, by payment in Yen, would be confiscatory
and illegal.
V. RECOMIENDATION
RESTRTOTED

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 7 of Enclosure No. 1 to
Despatch No. 41l dated June 17,
1947, from Yokohama, Japan.
V. RECOMENDATION:
12. It is reconmended that the Japanese Government be
informed thet its agrarian land reform laws are not consider-
ed applicable to American land owmers whose titles were mat-
ters of record prior to the enactment of such laws unless
other measures for compensation are adopted which will be
prompt, adequate, and effective.
/s/ Alva C. Carpenter
ALVA C. CARPENTER
Chief, Legal Section

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch
No. 411 dated June 17, 1947,
RESTRIOTED
from Yokohama, Japan.
HGS/RHD/JLC/sk
From: NR/A
To: DS
Date: 28 May 1947
ATTN: Yokohama Division
Note No. 2.
1. The question involving treatment by the Japanese
Government of certain agricultural lands owned by Mr.
George Tsutsui, an American citizen residing in Los Angeles,
California, arises in connection with the Japanese agrarian
reform program. Pertinent facts relating to this program
are as follows:
a. The Japanese agrarian reform program is based on
the Ovmer-Farmer Establishment Special Measures Law and the
Agricultural Land Adjustment Law as amended. Both measures
were favorably considered by General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, on 14 August 1946, enacted
by the Japanese Diet on 11 October 1946, and promulgated on
21 October 1946.
b. The purpose of the progran is twofold:
(1) To minimize farm tenancy by enabling tenants
to purchase the land they cultivate.
(2) To guarantee proper conditions of tenancy
to those who continue to farm as tenants.
c. With certain minor exceptions, the following
agricultural lands will be purchased by the Japanese Govern-
ment for resale to tenants:
(1) All cultivated lands owmed by persons whose
permanent residence vas not, on or before
23 November 1945, located in the city, town,
or village in which the land is located, or
in an adjacent city, towm, or village.
(2) All tenant operated agricultural land hold-
ings in excess of one cho (2.45 acres) per
landlord (four cho in Hokkaido).
(3) All lands operated by owmer-cultivators in
excess of three cho (twelve cho in Hokkaido).
This is inclusive of tenant operated lands
owmed by persons in this category.
(4) All agricultural lands owmed by corporations
whose principal object is other than culti-
vation and such other corporation owned
agricultural lands as are considered proper.
(5) Such uncultivated lands as are considered
capable of reclamation for purposes of culti-
vation.
/d. The

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2 of Enclosure No. 2 to
Despatch No. 411 dated June 17,
RESTRICTED
1947, from Yokohama, Japan
d. The terms of purchase and resale are specified
by law.
e. The laws upon which the agrarian reform program
is based make no provision for discrimination either for or
against owners or tenants on the grounds of race, national-
ity, creed or political opinion.
2. The general problem regarding the effect of the
agrarian reform proram on lands owmed by allied nationals
is currently under study by NR and other interested sections
in GHQ, SCAP. Although a final decision has not been made
on this matter it is the opinion of all sections concerned
that where allied nationals acquire owmership of Japanese
agricultural land subsequent to the date of promulgation of
the agrarian reform legislation (21 October 1946) such par-
ties take title with knowledge, either express or implied,
of the agrarian reform laws and any owmership rights ac-
quired are subject to those laws. Attention is invited to
the inclosed opinion of LS, SCAF, concerning the instant
case.
3. IR recommends that Ir. George Tsutsui be notified
that his lands are subject to the laws upon which the agra-
rian reform program is based.
4. Notification of final action taken on this case is
requested.
5. Concurrences:
GS/Leg, Brig Gen C. Whitney
CPC/Leg Adv, Ir S. J. McMahon
RESTRICTED

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
753-756
FORM DS. 507
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION OR
9.22.55
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADMINISTRATIVE DESIGNATION
REQUEST POR·CHANGE OF CLASSIFICATION
r
RESTRICTED
OR DESIGNATION
SECTION A
TO: 1. ORIGINATING OR ACTION OFFICE
Mr.
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
Japan Mr. Fearey(Desk OfFicer) Hirabayashi
6051
NS
5207
2.' REQUESTER'S NAME
AREA OR AGENCY
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
M. Whiteman
L/ARA
2230
NS
6419
3. OFFICE OF RECORD:
RM. PPT. ETC.
SECTION B
THE FOLLOWING
ATTACHED
DOCUMENT(S) NO LONGER APPEARS TO WARRANT ITS SECURITY CLASSIFICATION OR ADMIN-
DESCRIBED
ISTRATIVE CONTROL DESIGNATION.
TYPE OF DOCUMENT
Enclo: t} to, be.
Despatch No. hll from Yokohama, Of. of U.S. Polttical Advisor
declassIried
TO:
DATE
Secretery of State
6/17/47
FROM:
Office of the U.S. Bolitical Adviser
SUBJECT:
Application of Japanese Agrarian Land Reform Measures to Property of
American Citizens.
PRESENT CLASSIFICATION OR DESIGNATION
REQUESTED CLASSIFICATION OR DESIGNATION
RESTRICTED
UNCLAESIFIED
SECTION C
THE CHIEF OF THE OFFICE TO WHICH THIS FORM IS ADDRESSED OR A PERSON DESIGNATED BY HIM WILL REVIEW THE SUBJECT
DOCUMENT AND INDICATE THE DESIRED CLASSIFICATION OR ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL DESIGNATION.
CHANGE TO:
RETAIN PRESENT CLASSI-
TOP SECRET
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
UNCLASNFIED
FICATION OR DESIGNATION
LIMITED OFFICIAL USE
OFFICIAL USE ONLY
*(If reclassified or redesignated to a higher classification explain on reverse side)
BY AUTHORITY OF:
DATE
OFFICE
M. AJualayach
SECTION D
INSTRUCTIONS
(1) The requesting office or post wil1 complete lines (1) and (2) of Section A and all of Section B of this form in dup-
licate. If the request is received by the Department fron another agency, RM prenares the form
(2) Both copies of this form together with one )copy of the docunent or documents concerned, when possible, will be for-
warded to the action or originating office or post fo rned.
(3) The action or originating office or pst will,  the contents warrant, declassify, downgrade, or, redesignate the
document by completing Section C of this fopm in duplicare  n will route both copies to the office or post responsible for
DS-507 with the record copy, change the class rica ion df the record cony of the document involved, forward the duplicate copy
of this form to the office or post nitia ingtthe reduest, and notify all copy holders.
(5) The office or post which Ynitiadd the redunst will note the action taken and make the necessary changes in classifica-
tion or designation of documents in its possession.
(6) In cases where the originating on action office or post wisies to initiate the declassification or redesignation, the
entire form will be completed and routed to the office or post maintaining the official record cony for attachment thereto.
(7) If the originating or action office in the Department does not hold the record copy, roth completed copies of this
form will be returned to RM. RM will forward the original of this form to the office holding the record copy. In the Foreign
Service, both copies will be sent to the post holding the record copy.
(8) If the request is received in the Department from another agency and if the classification or designation has been
changed, RM will notify offices within the Department holding copies of the documents. In the Foreign Service, the post hold-
ing the record copy will notify other posts who originally received distribution of the document of the change of classifica-
tion or redesignation.
(9) For all requests originating outside the Department, RM presents the request and takes the necessary notification
action. In the Foreign Service the post holding the record copy takes necessary notification action.
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION OR
ADMINI STRATIVE DESIGNATION

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.93)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, June 28, 1947
RESTRICTED
DEPANTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
No. 1143
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
工
MICAN AURLIC AFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
A1947
3
4D
JUL 2 3 1947
SUBJECT:
Trehsmitting Request of Japanese Governmont-for
Cu.
142
6 700 L6
Dissemination of Information Reserding Land Reform
Program in Japan mon Janese Resident Abroad.
R
C.
-894.52/6-1747
a
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to refer to
this Mission's despatch Ho. 1116, June 17, 1947, on the subject:
"Application of Japanese Rural Land Reforim Leasures to Japanese
Subjects Residin Abroad." he Mission's reference despatch for-
warded to the Department copies of an exchange of correspondence
between the Japanese Government and the Swedish Diplomatic Mission
ACTION
regarding the dissemination of information concerning the recently.
ESP
inaugurated land reform program in Jupan, amon Japanese nationals
COPIÉS
in Hawaii, Mexico, Peru, and Brazil, where Japanese colonies are
10:
sizeable and where Japanese interests are protected by the Swedish
LE
Government.
FE
There has now been received from the J panese Government mem-
orandum No. 4920 (RJ), June 25, 1947, requesting that information
regarding land reform be made available to Japanese nationals res-
ident in the United States, Cenade, and Ar entina, where there are
no designated protecting powers over Japanese interests. A copy
of the Japanese Government's comnnnication is enclosed.
KcK
The three copies of the enclosure to the Japanese Govern-
CS/A
ment's memorandum under reforence ("a rief Explanation About the
Farm Land Reform Pro raume for Japtnese Nationels Abroad") have
been forvarded to the C nadiin Litison ission in Japan for forward-
ing in the latter's discretion to appropriate Canadian authorities.
As the enclosure is identical to the statement contained on pages
2 to 8 inclusive of enclosure No. 4 of the Lfission's despatch No.
1l18, it has not been copied. Provided no objection is perceived,
the cood offices of the Department are requested in making the con-
tents of the statement in question known to interested Japanese in
the United States, and in forwarding a cony to the Embassy at Buenos
Aires for appropriate action in Argentina.
894.24
Enclosure:
2V0
Copy of Central Liaison Office
AL
Hemorandum No. 4920 (RJ),
JILTD
June 25, 1947, subject: "Request
2
for Forwarding Explanatory Note
C2
Concerning New Farm Land Reform
Law in Japan".
L3
Original and Ozalid to Department
852
JWRurnett:emn

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 1143 dated June 28, 1947, from the United States
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, subject: Transmitting Request of Jap-
anese Government for Damsemination of Information Regarding Land Reform
Program in Japan among Japanese Resident Abroad".
COPY
JAPANESE GOVERNLENT
Central Liaison Office
TO:
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS OF THE SUPREME COMMANDER
FOR THE ALLIED PO.ERS.
FROM:
Central Liaison Office, Tokyo.
SUBJECT:
Request for Forwarding Explanatory Note Concerning
New Farm Land Reform Law in Japan.
C.L.O. No. 4920(RJ)
25 June 1947
1. Reference: C.L.0. Memorandum No. 4450(RJ) dated 7 June 1947, subject:
"Reguest for Transmittal of Note Verbale."
2. There are a considerable number of Japanese nationals abroad whose
interests are affected by the new Farm Land Reform Law which recently has
come into force in Japan, and those Japanese seem to be very anxious to
obtain an accurate information about the said legislation. In view of
this fact, the Japanese linistry of Forein Affairs previously requested
the Syedish Diplomatic lission in Japan, ith the Note Verbale enclosed
with the reference Memorandun, to forward to Hawai, Mexico, Peru and
Brazil where the Japanese colonies are sizable, out of the countries
in which the Japanese interests are rrotected by the S edish Government
a brief explanatory note and a statute-book concerning the New Farm Land
Reform Law each, in order to ive rudimental knowledge thereof to the
interested Japanese nationals.
3. However, for the United States of America, Conada and Argentine where
the numbers of the Japanese residents are also sizable, there are no desig-
nated protecting powers over the Japanese interests. Therefore, it would
be much apprcciated if the General Headyuarters, S preme Comnander for the
Allied Powers be good enough to use its good offices so that the above-
mentioned explanatory note written in En lish, as enclosed herevith in
triplicate, may be forwarded to the competent authorities of each of those
countries and, through the latter's kind intermediary, be brought to the
knowledge of the int erested Jepanese, in c se they re uire information
regarding the matter.
FOR TIE PRESIDENT:
/s/
(K. Asakai)
Director of Ceneral Affairs
Central Liaison Office
Enclosures: Three copies of Explanatory Note
concerning New Farn Land Reform
Law.
COPY

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.86)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
B
Office of
NA
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
tE
JUL21947
Inds
DIRECTOF
Department of State
a
pE
inn
UCTASSTPID
AJRGRAM
4284
FROT:
Hoscow
DATED:
July 22, 1047
894.52/7-2247
PCD:
July 30, 1947
etary otute
10:04 AM
3
Washington
Z
ACTION FE
A-759, Ju2y 22
INF
DC/x
Lzvestis of July 20, "Fabotego of Lend Roforn in Japan"
UE
A-A
b. . Kudrya tsoy. uritieszos American occupation authori-
SA/M
BUR
taes Sor follrg oo olsvrate ndefordel systou of land
DC/L
ITP
ouroeeship in Japen and cheracterizes effeets of Japaneso
UCD
CIG
logislation as mbotege by Japanose govermment of land
FC
UIC
Pofor.
S. IIW
Copy to Tokyo
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Ablttle:lyk
AISON OFFICE
6
WO
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.——This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.91)
1479
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Bleansd
No. 431
Yokohama Branch,
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser,
Yokohama, Japan, July 31, 1947.
File
UNRESTRICTED
Subject:
Letter regarding Application of Japanese Agrarian
Land Reform Measures to Property of American
Citizens.
2nms
894.52/6-1747
DE/LESP copico
The Consul General has the honor to refer to the
894.52/7-3147
penultimate paragraph of his despatch no. 4ll of June
17, 1947, entitled "Application of Japanese Agrarian
Land Reform Measures to Property of American Citizens",
and to enclose for forwarding to the addressee, if no
objection is perceived thereto, a letter and enclosures
dated July 31, 1947 addressed to Mr. K. Mukaeda, 355
East First Street, Los Angeles, California.
An extra copy of the letter is enclosed for the
ACTION
00908
TUS
AE
947  11 3
RANCH
FE
1
OCO
2
CC
S
个
0
Th. Tran
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CIS
C
公
L1
RECEIVED
DC/L
AM 10 52
8
hith orng
CS/V
Enclosure:
1. Letter to Mr. K. Mukaeda,
dated July 31, 1947.
Original and oz lid to Department.
One copy to DS, Tokyo.
894.52/7-3147
Two copies to files.
350
UAJohnson/evw
UNRESTRICTED
HA

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
Yokohamm Branch,
Office of the U. S. Political
American Consulate Building;
c/o Postmaster, San Francisee,
July 31, 1947.
Mr. K. Mukaeda
355 East First Street
Los Angeles, California.
Sir:
Reference is made to your letters of March 13, March
24, and March 28, 1947, regarding the transfer of property
in Japan from Manso Tsutsui to George Tsutsui, from Iohie
Kono to Akiko Kono Matauura, and from Fusakichi Notowaki
to Tai Motowaki, respectively, the transferor in each case
being a Japanese national and the transferee an American
national.
As the registrations of the transfers of these par-
cels of land constitute a legal service which, in accord-
ance with the Foreign Service Regulations of the United
States, this office is not authorized to perform, all of
the documents enclosed in the letters under reference are
being returned.
However, in order to be of assistance to you in this
matter inquiry was made to determine whether it would be
possible for the transfer to be effected in any other
manner.
Under directive no. 45 of September 22, 1945, from
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to the Japan-
ese Government, all transactions involving property lo-
cated in Japan owned or controlled by any person outside
of Japan are prohibited without the express approval of
the Supreme Commander. This office has been informed by
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, that it does not consider that sufficient justi-
fication has been shown to fustify the approval at this
time of exceptions to this policy in these cases.
It is

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. that where
Allied nationals acquire ownership of Japanese agri-
cultural land subsequent to the promulgation of the
agrarian reform legislation on October 21, 1946, such
parties take title with the knowledge, either express
or implied, of the agraricn reform laws, and any own-
ership rights so acquired are subject to those laws.
Therefore, even if the transfer of title frem Japanese
to American ownarship in these cases were to be effeated
with the approval of the Supreme Commander, any owmer-
ship rights so acquired would be subject to the provi-
sions of the agrarian land reform measures.
Very truly yours,
U. Alexis Johnson,
American Consul General.
Enclosures:
1. Affidavit of Fusakichi
Motowaki, dated March 28, 1947,
and attachments.
2.
Affidavit of Ichio Kono,
dated March 27, 1947, and
attachments.
3. Affidavit of George Tsutsui,
dated March 13, 1947, and
attachment.
4. Copy of Agreement in Japanese,
dated March 1, 1947.

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
NOV 28 1947
mpe
Yokohama Branch,
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser,
American Consulate Building, APO 43.
c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, California.
November 6, 1947.
Mr. K. Mukaeda,
355 East First Street,
Los Angeles, California.
Sir:
Your letter of October 29, 1947, with regard to the
exemption of the land of Dey Tokio Tsuneta from the op-
eration of the Japanese agrarian land reform measures
has been transmitted to the Civil Property Custodian, Gen-
eral Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
for any action which that office may find it possible to
take.
Very truly yours,
U. Alexis Johnson
American Consul General.
In duplicate through Department.
A (e of
the 

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD PFORM NO. 64
DC/R
DATE: Auguqtu
TO
FROM :
OE - Mr. Whitman
DIVISION OF
Forwarding attached correspondence to addressee.PROTECTIVE SERVICES
SUBJECT:
SEP 2 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FW 894.
1. No objection is seen to forwarding attached letter and en-
closures from American Consul General in Yokohama to addressee
designated therein,in accordance with request of Consul General.
5
2
Attachs.
OE:OJMcDiarmid:mrr
8/27/47
ogm

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.88)
Mw, lirtiman
103/Kerg. Steent
Me D
seatild, tash
02t 1.1947
Mn. Ederia M. Martia
state Deptment
DIVISION OF OCCUPIED AR AS
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Washirgton, D.C.
RpCT61947
RBPache
DEPARTMENT OF STATE 10/7/47
Dgar Mr. Edwia M. Martin:
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
I undustaad thal you handof+71947
68
matters pertaining to the JapaneNT OF STATE?
affairs dealing with properties, personal
52/
as well ae real. I would appreciate f
you cou inform or advice me about
the following matter.
4
Jnot lately, I have leard spom various
sources that all privately oured properties
an Japan (expecially farmlande), on whech
the owner bave not lived on durirg wartimid
are beirg sold to the trant sormere by
A
onders  the Japanese Goverrmint or the
Supreme Commander n Japon. I alco
underatand that thes is being done
2
ont conseat the uner and at the

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.86)
ment orthe Supreme commandernJge
Siner my father owns some
propertics (notvery lorge) which he had
bought n Japan durirg bea difitini
I wish to krow whether thes pitration
is true or not, and when thea weat
into effeet, and the prier per lot or
vcreage on size of land sender whech shwas
bought, and whather the low, if ary, also
affect Jopanese katconak and then hers
in the United stater.
Dre to my fathers death a pew
years ags, our family have inherited thes
properly on Japan and therefoe would
like t  de c  
if ary lith by now.
yours tinly,
ITsuoahi Nakahard

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.95)
OCT 241947
In reply refer to
OE
My dear Mr. Nakahara:
Reference is mde to your letter of Ootober 1, 1947, concerning
the applicability of the Japanese rural land referm measures to certain
894.52/
property owned in Japan by your father, whieh you state your family has
inherited sinoe his death.
Generally speaking, the Japanese rural land reform measures apply to
all Japanese nationals whether they are residing in Japan or abroad.
The question of whether such measures apply to property owmed by Uaited
21
Nations' nationals, is presently before General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan. Pending determination of this
question, the disposal under these measures of such property is being
held in abeyance.
There is enclosed for your information, a copy of "A Brief Explan-
ation About the Farm Land Reform Programmse for Japanese Nationals Abroad"
which was prepared by the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is
believed that this dooument will fully answer the questions you have
raised in your letter under reference.
Sincerely yours,
DOR Unit
Aral
Rev
Edwin M. Martin
CS/ A
Acting Chief
Division of Oocupied Areas
Economic Affairs
Enclosure:
"A Brief Explanation About the Farm Land Reform Programme
for Japanose Nationals Abroad".
Mr. Tsuyoshi Nakahara,
1031 King Street,
Seattle, Washington.
Jad
LOAR
OE:RBParke:mw
10/7/47
SJK
A-8
ogm
OCT 24

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.97)
350
UNCLASSIFIED
UAJ/im
FOREIGN SERVICE OPERATIONS MEMORANDUM
To:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE, WASHINGTON
From:
YOKOHAMA BRANCH, US POLAD
OCT28
Subject:
American Property: Letter to K.
Reference:
None
There is enclosed for forwarding to the addressee, if
7ie
no objection is perceived, a letter from this office dated
October 16, 1947, to K. Mukaeda, 355 East First Street, Los
Angeles, California, regarding agricultural land allegedly
owned in Japan by certain American citizens.
The Civil Property Custodian, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers has concurred in this reply.
In this connection reference is made to our despatch
no. 431 of July 31, 1947, transmitting a letter to the same
addressee with regard to agricultural land acquired subse-
quent to the enactment of the agrarian land reform measures;
and to our despatch no. 41l of June 17, 1947 entitled "Appli-
cation of Japanese Agrarian Land Reform Measures to Property
of American Citizens". With reference to the second para-
graph of the latter despatch, it is understood that the pro-
posal of the Natural Resources Section to submit the question
to the War Department for a decision has not yet been approved
by the other interested sections of General Headquarters, and
that the entire matter is still under consideration in Gen-
eral Headquarters.
894.5
Enclosure:
Letter to K. Mukaeda, dated
October 16, 1947, in quad-
ruplicate.
-ai
CS/H
19770.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.96)
U137sm
Yokohama Braneh,
American Consulate Building, APO 343,
c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, California.
October 16, 1947.
Mr. K. Mukaeda
355 East First Street,
Los Angeles, California.
Sir:
Copies of your letters of September 5, September 13,
September 17 and September 23, 1947, with enclosures, con-
cerning certain lands owned in Japan by Daiki Otsuka, Jin
Asakura, Tokuo Ando and Takeo Sakai, respectively, have
been transmitted to the Civil Property Custodian, General
Headquarters, Supreme Commender for the Allied Powers, for
whatever action that office may find it possible to take.
Although it 1s understood that no decision has been
reached as to the applicability of the Japanese Agrarian
Land Reform measures to property in. Japan of United States
citizens, requests for the exemption of such property from
the application of those measures may be sent to the De-
partment of State, or directly to the appropriate Ameriean
consular office in Japan for transmittal to the Civil Prop-
erty Custodian.
It is suggested that such requests include a detailed
legal description of the property, including location,
area, number of lots, kind of ownership, and date acquired.
as well as a statement as to whether, under Japanese law,
the owner also possesses Japanese nationality.
Very truly yours,
U. Alexis Johnson
American Consul General
A trus 300y of
the sigmed srig-
m i

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.96)
D-722
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, Pebruary 16, 1948.
No. 104
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject: Implementation of Rural Land Reform Program.
1
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose five
copies of a directive from this Headquarters to the Japanese Govern-
ment (SCAPIN 1855 of February 4, 1948) directing tht prompt and
vigorous action be taken against persons who obstruct the implemen-
tation of land reform measures. The land reform program in Japan
ACTION
is based on revisions enacted in 1945 and 1946 of the Agricultural
OE
Land Adjustment Law of 1938. The directive emphasizes that imple-
COPIXS
mentation of the progran is essential to the creation in Japan of
894.52/2-
201
a free and democratic society.
FE
2
Copy of a press release dated February 10, 1948 issued by the
LE
l'ublic Information Office of this Headquarters in explanation of
SCAPIN 1855 is also enclosed. The press release notes that in most
parts of Japan the land reforn program has moved ahead smoothly with
the cooperation of all concerned.
DIVIS CN OF OCCUPIED AR AS
-1648
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ECO OMIC AFFAIRS
Enclosures:
1. Five copies lof SCAPIN
1855, February 4, 1948
concerning rural land
reform.
1948 FEB 26 PM 3 56
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2.
Copy of press release
dated February 10, 1948
RECEIVED
issued by GHQ, FEC, con-
DC/L
FE  3
erning SCAPIN 1855.
CVA
DC/M
2
RBFinn:cgf
Original and ozalid to the Department.
MAR 8 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
LeAn

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 104 dated February 16, .1948
from the Office of the United States Political Adviser at
Tokyo on the subject of: "Implementation of Rural Land Reform
Program."
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
Public Information Office
1330
Press Release:
10 February 1948
SCAP DIRECTS JAPAMESE GOVERNMENT TO TAKE PROMPT ACTION AGAINST
PERSONS WHO OBSTRUCT IMPLEMENTATION OF LAND REFORM MEASURES.
To put an end to delays which landlords in some localities have
caused in the sale of their land to the Japanese, Government, SCAP
today directed the Japanese Government to "take prompt and vigorous
action" against persons who "obstruct the implementation of land
reform measures."
SCAP ordered the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to "in-
struct prefectural and local agricultural land commissions to
purchase without delay all land subject to land reform law...with-
out regard to unauthorized action by pressure organizations seeking
to impede the objectives of the land reform program."
The Japanese land reforin progran enacted by the Japanese Diet
Oct. 21, 1946 has moved ahead smoothly with the cooperation of all
concerned in most parts of Japan, SCAP Agricultural officials ex-
plained. By the end of 1947, they said 3,460,719 acres (1,424,453
cho) were acquired by the Japanese Government from landlords for
resale to tenants. At least 71 percent of all cultivated land to
be purchased under the program has already been acquired, they
pointed out. In several places, however, landlords have sought to
obstruct, delay or evade the purposes of the program, they said.
The directive to the Japanese Government points out that the
land reform laws were enacted in accordance with a SCAP directive
of December 9, 1945, "in order to eliminate the feudal system of
land tenure and remove economic obstacles to the redistribution of
the land on an equitable and democratic basis. Since the enactment
of these land reform laws, however, efforts have been made by
certain adversely affected interests to obstruct the accomplishments
of the rural land reform program."
The "firm implementation" of the program, the directive con-
tinues, "is essential to the creation in Japan of a society which
is truly free and democratic and, as a consequence, it has become
one of the foremost objectives of the Japanese people as well as of
the Allied occupation. Therefore, the strict, vigorous and fearless
enforcement of the above-mentioned laws is both imperative and
indispensable."
"The directive should serve notice to dissident groups that
the laws will be enforced, and that equitable distribution of the
land will be carried out," SCAP officials said.
They added that SCAP is "fully behind all branches of the
Japanese Government in any way connected with adninistration and
enforcement of the land reform laws."
Japanese

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 104, February 16, 1948.
- 2 -
Japanese Agriculture and Forestry Ministry officials dealing
with land reform enforcement have reported to SCAP that feudalis-
tic relationships persisting between landlord and tenant have
occasionally resulted in intimidation of a number of tenants who
would like to purchase land, but who feel they are in too weak a
position to demand their rights under the land reform program.
These feudal relationships are reported to have affected
decisions of some land commission members by intimidation to favor
landlords over the tenants. In other instances, law enforcement
officials have hesitated to incur the displeasure of powerful land-
lord groups, it was pointed out.
The directive, the first from SCAP on land reform since the
original directive calling for land distribution in l945, aims at
facilitating a system of independent owner-farmers in Japan. The
1945 directive ordered the Japanese Government "to insure that
those who till the soil shall have a more equal opportunity to
enjoy the fruits of their labor."
cgf

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo on the subject of: "Implementation of Rural Land Reform
Program."
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AFO 500
AG 602 (4 Feb 48 )NR/A
4 February 1948
SCAPIN 1855
MEMORANDUM FOR:
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Rural Land Reform
1.
Reference is made to:
a. Memorandum for Japane se Government, file AG 602.6
(9 Dec 45) CIE, (SCAPIN 411), subject as above, dated 9 December
1945.
b. Owner-Farmer Establishment and Special Measures Law,
Law No. 43, 21 October 1946.
c. Agricultural Iand Adjustment Law, Law No. 67, 2 April
1938, as revised by Law No. 64, 2ε December 1945, and by Law No. 42,
21 Cctober 1946.
2. The Owner-Farmer Establishment and Special Measures Law
and the Agricultural Land Adjustment Law were enacted in accordance
with the reference memorandum, in order to eliminate the feudal
system of land tenure and remove economic obstacles to the re-
distribution of the land on an equitable and democratic basis.
Since the enactment of these land reform laws, however, efforts
have been made by certain adversely affected interests to ob-
struct the accomplishment of the rural land reform profram.
3. The firm implementation of the Land Reform Program is
ossential to the creation in Japan of a society which is truly
free and democratic and, as a consequence, it has become one of
the foremost ob jectives of the Japanese people as well as of the
Allied occupation. Therefore, the strict, vigorous and fearless
enforcement of the above-mentioned laws is both imperative and
ind ispensable.
4. Accordingly, it is directed that:
a. The Ministry of Agriculture and Ferestry will instruct
prefectural and local agricultural land commissions to purchase
without delay all land subject to Land Reform Law in accordance
with existing procedures and without regard to unauthorized action
by pressure organizations seeking to impede the objectives of the

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.97)
BASIC: Memo For JC, .SCAPIN 1855
Land Reform Program.
b. The Japanese Government will take prompt and vigorous
or other unlawful means, obstruct the implementation of land reform
measures. Reports of such action will be submitted to this head-
quarters.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
F02
olonel, AGL,
Adfjutant General.
2

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDA FORM NO.
A
Office Memorandum · UNITED STATes GovernMENT
9/3/48
DATE:
TO
: FE
FRoM : EP - R. Burr SmithRB
su: Attached despatch no. 414, July 6, 1948.
No action is required since:
1. It is perfectly proper for SCAP to
direct Japanese Govt to defer liquidation of
Axis and U.N. land pending finalization of
overall policy on Axis and U.N. property in
Japan.
2. Question of disposition of church
lands held by Japanese juridical persons is a
matter to be resolved by SCAP and Jap Govt.
SGK
OFD:EP:SGKailis:cmb

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTION
DIVISION OF
assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
21948
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, July 6, 1948.
No. 414
DEVELOPBERT
DIVISION
AUG 11 1948
RESTRICTED
894.52/7-648
2
Subject: Application of Japanese Land Reform Program to United
Nations Nationals and to Owners Outside Japan.
DIVeSIONOFREAS
AUG 1 1948
The Honorable
The Secretary of Stat
DEPARTNTATE
894.52/2-10
Nashington.
LE.CP,
Sir:
1. I have the honor to refer to this lission's despatch no. 867
of February 10, 1947 and other correspondence regarding Japanese land
1
reform and to enclose five copies of a directive issued by this Head-
quarters to the Japanese Government (3CArIN 1911 of June 19, 1948)
authorizing the latter to include within the scope of the land reform
ACTION
program all land in Japan except that registered as owned by certain
categories of Axis nationals, by United Nations or neutral nationals
COPILS
who do not also possess Japanese nationality, and by other non-Japa-
TO:
nese formerly resident in areas under Japanese control and not now
resident in Japan.
2. Also enclosed are five copies of SCAPIN 1845/1 of February
18, 1948, paragraph 2 of which defines those Axis nationals to whom
the land refor program is not presently being applied. The ultimate
disposition of former German real property in Japan, which constitutes
most of the Axis property involved, is undetermined, this property
CS/V
OCD-eue
having been vested in the German xternal Froperty Commission by vir-
tue of Allied Control Council for Germany Law No. 5, as amended.
fh
3. Officials of this Headouarters estimate that about 5,000 cho
1TP
of land (1 cho equals about 2.4 acres) are owned by persons outside
070
Japan. Of these, 3,O00 cho are estimated to be owned by Japanese
nationals, 1,000 cho by Axis nationals, 450 cho by persons having both
Japanese and American nationality, and the remainder by neutral nation-
als, Koreans, and others. The land held by persons of both Japanese
and American nationality, as well as that held by other persons of
dual nationality one of which is Japanese, is clearly made subject to
the land reform program. The land held by koreans residing in Japan
is also made subject.
894.5/7-648
4. On July 18, 1947, the Japanese Government requested the ap-
proval of this Headquarters, as it was required to do by SCAPIN 45 of
September 22, 1945, which imposed control over al1 financial trans-
actions by the Japanese Government, of a proposal to dispose of land
in Japan owned by persons outside of Japan. 3CAPIN 1911 of June 19,
1948, is in answer to this request.
5. SCArIN 19ll constitutes the first decision by this Head-
quarters on the problem as to the extent to which the Japanese
Government
RESTRICTED

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 414,
July 6, 1948.
-2-
Government should be permitted to apply the land reform program to
United Nations nationals, although this matter has been under care-
ful consideration for over one year. The problem is posed by the
apparent irreconcilability, on the one hand, of the provisions of a
basic directive from the United States Government to the Supreme Com-
mander requirin him to preserve and protect the property of United
Nations nationals and to impound or block property owned by absentee
owners of non-Japanese nationality (JCS directive No. 1380/15, para-
graphs 8e and 45), and, on the other hand, of the purposes of the
land reforn progran in Japan as directed by the Supreme Commander in
SCArIN 411 of December 9, 1945, and as instituted by the Japanese
Government in the Law Joncerning Special Measures for Establishment
of Ovmer Farmers. Major disagreement within this Headquarters over
several issues raised by this problem has delayed solution.
6. The first of these issues was the matter of compensation to
absentee owners if their property were purchased and disposed of by
the Japanese Government in accordance with the land reform law. This
issue is fully discussed in the enclosures to despatch no. 4ll of
June 17, 1947 from the Yokohama Branch of this Mission to the Depart-
ment. As indicated in despatch no. 4'1, it was proposed to refer the
entire problem to ashington for a solution but this proposal in turn
met with no general agreement and hence no decision was reached.
During the discussion it was pointed out that on June 19, 1947, the
Far astern Connission had decided in Fac-Ol4/9, Part II, paragraph
3, that where protection of United Mations interests conflicts with
the fulfillment of the objectives of the Cecupation, the government
of the nation concerned should oe inforned through diplomatic channels
and should be consulted on the question of proper adjustments; this
broad policy determination was not c nsidered applicable in the present
instance.
7. The Japanese Government on its own initiative indicated in
June 1947 that it would apply the land reform program to Japanese
nationals whether in Japan or abroad and, presumably, regardless of
dual nationality. This principle has now been incorporated in SCAPIN
1911 of June 19, 1948. Information on this statement of position by
the Japane se lovernment was Porwarded to the Department by this
Hission's despatch no. 1113, June 17, 1947, and despatch no. 1143,
June 29, 1947. The Japane se Governnent has not, however, actually ap-
plied the provisions of the land reforn law to Japanese nationals
abroad or to any omers or land who were not resident in Japan.
8. After it had heen generally agreed that United Nations nation-
als should be exempted, at least until a foreign exchange rate for the
Japanese yen was established, a second major issue was raised in con-
nection with the applicability of the land reform law to domestic
religious orders. The Civil Iroperty Custodian, who is charged with
primery responsibility in protecting the interests of United Nations
nationals, was of the informal opinion that the land reform program
should not be applied to property held by religious orders, many of
which are financed by foreign nationals. In opposition, the Government
Section of this Headquarters took the following position: "It is the
opinion of the Government ection that nothing could do more harn to
the land reform program than to exempt from the land reform law prop-
erty of religious orders, whether the funds for the purpose of such
property were originally provided by United Nations nationals or enemy,
neutral, or indigenous nationals, especially when the legal and bene-
ficial ownership of such property is vested in a domestic corporation
sole
RLSTRICTED

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No.'414,
July 6, 1948.
-3-
sole, such as the Bishop of Fukuoka. More than one violent revolu-
tion in the history of the modern world can be traced to the resent-
ment of the peasantry engendered by disproportionately large land
holdings of church authorities. Such exenption would inevitably
create conditions conducive to the development of communistic tend-
encies and h nd on a silver platter to the Communist Party of Japan
an issue which, historically popular in the western world, would be
even more sympathetically received in a non-Christian, oriental
country such as Japan." The property involved in controversy is
mainly the agricultural lands owned by the Roman Catholic Diocese of
Fukuoka, and although the Suprene Coanander in a letter dated March
4, 1947, to the Connanding General of the United States Eighth Army,
had stated that agricultural lands owmed by this diocese are subject
to the provisions of the land reform laws, it appears that this issue
is still unresolved.
9. SCAr IN 191l was approved by the Supreme Commander's Chief of
Staff on June 14, 194ε, ith the instruction to the Civil Property
Custodian that "mestions of interpretation of the application of the
proposed SCA IN and of the Japanese Agrarian Land Reform Law in spe-
cial cases such as land owned by religious organizations, land owned
by commercial interests, and land owmed by individuals of dual nation-
ality, will be considered separately. Cases not falling within policy
already established will be submitted to the Chief of Staff for final
decision." It would sean likely that many individual cases involving
interpretation of CAr IN 19ll will arise and will require decision by
the Chief of Staff.
10. It has been learned that the Japanese Government will not
actually apply the provisions of SCA. IN 19ll to land owned by United
Nations nationals or by persons outside Japan until October 1948. It
is hoped that preliminary problems of interpretation will have been
resolved by that time. This Mission considers that the provision of
SCArIN 191l, exenpting from the land reform law all land owned by
"nationals of one of the United Nations or Neutral Nations who do not
in addition possess Japanese nationality," is of particular interest
to the Department, especially as it applies to persons in the United
States possessing both American and Japanese nationality. This pro-
vision was inserted in the directive in response to the following in-
struction by the Chief of Staff: "The Japanese Government will be
authorized to purchase land owned by: . . .(2) Persons of Japanese
descent, not Japanese nationals but claiming dual nationality, part of
which is Japanese, residing abroad."
11. Several residual questions raised by SCAPIN 191l, such as the
disposition of former Axis-owned land and of land held by United
Nations nationals not also possessing Japanese nationality, also
remain for future determination.
Respectfully yours,
J. Sebald
inclosures:.
1. Five copies SCAPIN 1911
of June 19, 1948.
2. Five copies 3CArIN 1845/1
of February 18, 1948.
852
RBFinn:cgf
Original and ozalid to the Department
RESTRICTED

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.96)
Enctosure No. 1 to Tokyo's No. 414, July 6, 1948.
GLNERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUIHE!E COITNDER FOR THE ALLIED IOTERS
AF 0 500
AG 004 (19 Jun 48 )CiC/FI
19 June 1948
SCAFIN 1911
MLORANDU FOR: JANESI. GOVLRNILNT
SUBJECT:
Application for General Permission to Disposo of
Troperties in Japan Owned by Iersons Outside of
Japin According to Law Concerning Special Measures
for stablishment of Owner Farmers
1. Reference is made to:
a. C.L.0. No. 5516 (L0 1874-FI/FF), 18 July 1947, subject, "Applica-
tion fer Ceneral Tormission to Dispose of I roperties in Japan Owned by Iersons
Outside of Japan According to Law Concerning Special Measures for Establish-
ment of Owner Farners";
b. Memoranda for the Japan se Governuent from General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Tow rs:
(1) Filc G 130 (22 Sep 45)ESs, SC. IH 45, 22 September 1945,
subject, "Control of Financial Transactions";
(2)
Fi1e .G 300.6 (18 Feb 43)CTC/CD, SCAL IN 1845/1, 18 Feb-
ruary 1948, cubject, "upplication of I rovisions of
SC.J IN 26, 13 Soptumber 1945, and Ministry of Finance
Ordinance No. 78, 20 Sept mher 1945, As Amended";
(3)
Filc : 386.3 (6 Mny 46)Ci C, SC. IN 926, 6 Lay 1946,
subj ct, "I rocelur: for Ruturning I roperty in Japan
to Nationtls of th: United Mations";
Filc AG 386.3 (22 Apr 48)CrC/FF, SCAFIN 1880, 22 Apri1
1948, subjcct, "I rocudures for fostoration of Iroperty
in Japen to Nationals of tho United Nations."
2. The Japanese Govornment is hercby authorizod to purchase and dis-
poso of all agricultural 1nd in Japan subjcct to the provisions of the Law
Concerning Special Munsures for Estublishment of Cvner Farners except that
at this time no action will be taken towards the purchace of land registered
as owned on the dnto of nactment of said law by:
a. I ersons subjuct to the provisions of reference lb(2) ;
b. Nationals of one of the United Nations or Neutral Nations
who do not in addition possess Japanose nationality;

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.96)
AG 004 (19 Jun 48)CI C/FT
SCAPIN 1911.
c. Other ncn-Japancse persons of arons formerly undor the control
of Japan who are not as of thc datc of this diroctive residents of Japan.
3. Land subjoct to rcstitution shall bo considercd as owned by nationale
of one of the United Nations even though rogistored in the namo of. another
at the date of ennctment of the gricultural Land Roform Law.
4. Thc Japanesc Government is directed to furnish Goneral Hoadquarters,
Suprome Commander for the Allied Iowcrs, Civil Iroporty Custodian, within
sixty (60) days of the datc of this memorandum, a list of the proporty covered
by the cxceptions in paragraph 2 above, thc name of ho ownor, the location
ind sizo of his ngricultural land holdings.
FOR THL SUI RIL COI NDLR:
Pimlary
R. M. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.
2

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's No. 414 dated July 6, 1948.
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POVERS
LPO 500
AG 300.6 (18 Feb 48)CPC/CD
18 February 1948
SCAPDN: 1845/1
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Application of Provisions of SCAPIN 26, 13 September
1945. and Ministry of Finance Ordinance No. 78,
20 September 1945, As Amended
1. Reference is made to:
a. Memorondum for the Jopanese Government, file AG 091.1l2
(13 Sep 45)MG, SCIPIN 26, 13 September 1945, subject, "Protection of A1-
lied and Axis Property;"
b. Japanese Ministry f Finance Ordinance No. 78, 20 September
1945, as amended;
c. Memorandum for the Japanese Government, file AG 300.6
(12 Jan 48)CPC/FP, SC.PII 1845, 12 January 1948, sub ject, "Lpplication
of Provisions of SCi.PI 26, 13 September 1945, and Ministry of Finance
Ordinance No. 78, 20 September 1945, s imended."
2. Paragraph 2 of 1 c above is rescinded end the following substi-
tuted therefor:
"The provisions of referenco lb above and paragraph 1 of
reference la above, shall epply only to property f non-resident and re-
patriated Axis nationols, property f Ixis governments, property of Ixis
juridicel persons, end property of the folloving-nemed /xis nationals
now resident in Jepan:
NME
1 DDRESS
Bergmann, Max .
Kenagawa Yen, Yokohame, Bluff 46b
Broetje, Gerd Otto
Hyogo-ken, Fobe-shi, Rokkosan West 11
Clarita
Dierk
intje
Frei, Josef
Iyogo-ken, Kobe-shi, Ikata-ku, Kitano-
Beatrice
cho, 3-chome 42/6
Claudia
Stephanie
inita
Egor
Merina

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.96)
LG 300.6 08 Feb 48)CPC/CD. SC:PIN 1845/1
ADDRESS
Pawlenka, Lrthur
Hyogo-ken, Kobe-shi. Suma-ku, Shioya-abo
Hildegard
Tenjingahira 358
ilexa
Franziska
Meiesner, Kurt
Tokyo-to, Omori-ku, Magome-machi. Higashi,
Hans
1-chome 1363
Meissner, Hanni
Nageno-ken, Karuizawa 820
Franke, Rudolf
Kanagawa-ken, Yokohama, Neka-ku, Shinyamo-
Elfriede
shita-cho
Lissner, Ivar
Tokyo-to, Setagaya-ku, Kemi-Kitazawa-machi,
2-chome 893
Balser, Karl
Hyogo-ken, Kobe-shi, Nada-ku. Shinohara,
Marie
Obannyama 96/131
Boltze, Erich
Shizuoka-ken, Atami, Koar-shi, Mitsui-
befso
Marchtaler, Hans
Shizuolx-ken, itemi. Koar-shi, Mitsui-
Else
besso"
3. The provisions of parttruph 2 of reference la above reme.in in
full force and effect.
FOR THE SUPREME COAEL NDER:
agstehe
R M. LEVY,
Adjutant General.
2

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
CTHE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
 DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
No. 786
RESTRICTED
DEC 29 1948
December 16, 1948.
EARTMENT OF STATE
Sabject: Purchase and Resale of Arricultural Lands Owned by Persons
of Dual Nationality.
C.
894.52 /M-64V
2
The Honorable
The secretary of tate,
vashington,
.52/12-1648
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this ission's despatch No. 414,
July 6, 1948 regardin a1plication of the Japanese land reform pro-
gran to United Hations nationals and to land owners outside of Japan.
In thi; connection there are nclosed copies of a directive
ACTION
Fron this Headouarters to the Japanese Government (s0APIN 1911/1,
FE
Dece iber 4, 194?) puthorizing the Japenese Government to treat as
COFIES
Japanese national: persons so registered in the records of Japan and
TO:
to notity owners when their land is purchased in accordance with the
land reform rogram. it is al so provided that owmers shall have the
opportunity to prove that they do not possess Japanese nationality.
1TP
as stated in despatch no. 414, it has been decided that the land
FEB 6-1950
reform pro ran shoule upply to persons of dual nationality one of
FILED
OFD
which is Japanese.
The day nese tovernment has reen instructed to subnit a report
A71
to t is headquarters describin" th procedure it intends to follow
in notifyin owners of the purchase of their land. In the case of
CS/A
owners in Ja en it is anticipated that the Japanese Government will
notify them directly by mail or by put licity in the press concerning
the le of their land.
SAPAL 413?
The  rocedure for notifying persons out side of Jasan, however,
has not yet been decided. xisting SCAr regulations prohibit
co munications by the Japinese Governaent to points outside of Japan
and further pore no dapenese are per itted to send abroad "papers of
legal procedures". This ission has taken the position, in the
absence o: a chanre in policy regarding Jepanese foreign relations,
that, bec use of the legal and diplomatic problens connected with the
hand reform promram, cownunications from the Japanese Government to
dual nationals or to resumed Japanese nationals resident abroad
shou ! be transmitted through this Headquarters. This position will
be asserted when the time comes for a deci sion by this Headouarters in
regard to the procedure for notifring owmers abroad.
An ancillary problen ney bein, considered by this Headquarters
12-164
is that of the procedure to e followed in allowing the Japanese
Covernment
RESTRICTED

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 786
December 16, 1948
RESTRICTED
-2-
Government to correspond with Japanese nationals abroad who wish to
renounce their Japanese citizenship. Several Japanese-Americans in
the United States have, in letters to the Japanese Government or to
this Headquarters, indicated a desire to renounce their Japanese
nationality, in one or two cases as a result of the hope that they
can thereby prevent the application of the land reform program to
their property in Japan.
xistin Car regulations, as noted above, prohibit comnunica-
tions on such matters by the Japanese Government to points abroad.
It is likely that this ieadquarters will decide to permit communica-
tions between the Japanese Government and Japanese abroad in regard to
whynoi?
renunciation of Japanese nationality, although such renunciation at
this time would not aflect the application of tne land reform program
to land in Japen.
Respectfully yours,
. J. Sebald
unclo sure:
Five copies of ur1 1911/1
352
toFinn/eg
Original and oZalid to bepartment.
CTRICTED

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE COLLANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 004 (19 Jun 48. )CPC/FP
4 December 1948
SCAPIN 1911/1
MEMORANDUM FOR:
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Purchase and Resale of Agricultural Lands Owned by
Persons of Dual Nationality
1. Reference is made to memorandum for the Japanese Government,
file AG 004 (19 Jun 48)CPC/FP, SCAFIN 1911, 19 June 1943, subject,
"Application for General Permission to Dispose of Properties in Japan
Owned by Persons Outside of Japan ccording to Law Concerning Special
Leasures for Establishment of Owner-Farmer," from General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander. for the Allicd Powers.
2. In implementing refcrence 1 above, the Japanese Government is
authorized to consider as Japanose nationals persons so registered in the
records of Japan.
3. In cases in which there is doubt as to the correctness of the
records with regard to dotermining nationality, the land may be pur-
chased by the Japanese Government but will not be disposed of at this
time. This procodure will afford an opportunity for tho owner to submit
proof that he does not possess Japanoso nationality. When such proof is
submitted, the purchase of the land will be cancelled.
4. The Japanese. Governmont will notify owners when their land is
purchased. A report of the procedure to be followed in notification of
the owners will be furnished Goneral Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Alliod Powers within fifteen (15) days of the date of this memorandum.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
agRehe.
for. N.LEVY
Colonel. AGD.
Adjutant Genoral.

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT D
DETACH THIS FORM
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
894.52/12-1€48
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH TELEGRAM AIRGRAM
TOKYO
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
DESP.
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
78€
AUG 00 1949
FILED
M-184
11-9-48

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
DEC81948
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 786
RESTRICTED
Tokyo, December 16, 1948.
Subject: Purchase and Resale of Agricultural Lands Owned by Persons
of Dual Nationality.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Rec'd
DEc 21
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No. 414,
894.
ACTION
July 6, 1948 regarding application of the Japanese land reform pro-
FE
gram to United Nations nationals and to land owners outside of Japan.
INFO
In this connection there are enclosed copies of a directive
5
DCR
from this Headquarters to the Japanese Government (SCAPIN 191l/1,
2
L
December 4, 1948) authorizing the Japanese Government to treat as
12-1648
ITP
Japanese nationals persons so registered in the records of Japan and
OFD
to notify owners when their land is purchased in accordance with the
0
land reform program. It is al so provided that owmers shall have the
opportunity to prove that they do not possess Japanese nationality.
As stated in despatch no. 414, it has been decided that the land
reform program should apply to persons of dual nationality one of
which is Japanese.
The Japanese Government has been instructed to submit a report
to this Headquarters describing the procedure it intends to follow
in notifying owners of the purchase of their land. In the case of
owners in Japan it is anticipated that the Japanese Government will
netify them directly by mail or by publicity in the press concerning
the sale of their land.
The procedure for notifying persons out side of Japan, however,
has not yet been decided. Existing SCAP regulations prohibit
communications by the Japanese Government to points outside of Japan
and furthermore no Japanese are permitted to send abroad "papers of
legal procedures". This Mission has taken the poaition, in the
absence of a change in policy regarding Japanese foreign relations,
that, because of the legal and diplomatic problems connected with the
land reform program, communications from the Japanese Government to
dual nationals or to presuned Japanese nationals resident abroad
should be transmitted through this Headquarters. This position will
be asserted when the time comes for a decision by this Headquarters in
regard to the procedure for notifying owners abroad.
An ancillary problem now being considered by this lleadquarters
is that of the procedure to be followed in allowing the Japanese
RESTRICTED
Government

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 786
December 16, 1948
RESTRICTED
-2-
Government to correspond with Japanese nationals abroad who wdsh to
renounce their Japanese citizenship. Several Japanese-Americans in
the United States have, in letters to the Japanese Government or to
this Headquarters, indicated a desire to renounce their dapanese
nationality, in one or two cases as a result of the hope that they
can thereby prevent the application of the land reform program to
their property in Japan.
Existing SCAP regulations, as noted above, prohibit communica-
tions on such matters by the Japanese Government to points abroad.
It is likely that this Headquarters will decide to permit communica-
tions between the Japanese Government and Japanese abroad in regard to
renunciation of Japanese nationality, although such renunciation at
this time would not affect the application of the land reform program
to land in Japan.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Five copies of SCAPIN 19l1/1
852
RUFinn/eg
Original and ozalid to Department.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.94)
30941
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
EA
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DIVISION OF ECONOMIC PROPERTY
United States Political
for Japan.
Tokyo, February 11, 1949
DEPARTMENT OFISTAT
No. 90
DeR
 COPY
UNCLASSIFIED
RunR Files
OFT
It is com
pleted.
Subject: Return of Personal Property to Members of Philippine
Puppet Government
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a
copy of a press release issued by this Headquartars on February 4,
1949, announcing that the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
has approved the retum, upon identification, of personal property,
which had been impounded by the Civil Property Custodian of this,
894.52/2-1149
Headquarters, to the families of Jose P. LAUREL, Bonigno QUINO,
Camilo OSIAS, and Jorge B. VARGAS, all of whom were members of the
wartime puppet government in the Philippines.
The press release states that restitu:ion at the present time
will include the property of only the Laurel and Osias families and
that the property of the others will be retirned later.
49 E M 11 1 2
CI  AN
Enclosure:
Copy of Press Release
dated February 4, 1949
236
RBFinn:hh
Copy to American Consulate
General, Manila
Original and hectograph
to Department
UNCLASSIFIED
1949
lus

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 90 of
February 11, 1949 from the United
UNCLASSIFIED
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subject: "Return of Personal
Property to Members of Philippine
Puppet Government."
COPY
Press Release by General Headquarters, February 4, 1949:
VALUABLE JEWELS RETURNED TO OWNERS
Jewels claimed by the Philippine government to be the property
of Mrs. Jose R. Laurel, wife of the former president of the puppet
government of the Philippines, were to be turned over Friday to the
Philippine government, it was announced today by Brig. Gen. Patrick
H. Tansey, SCAP's Civil Property Custodian.
An official statement as follows mas made by the Chief of Staff:
"SCAP has approved, upon identification, restoration of personal
property of Mrs. Jose P. Laurel and her five children, and Mrs.
Bonigno Aquino, Mr. and Mrs. Camilo Osias and Mr. George D. Vargas."
The restitution will include only the property of the Laurel
and Osias families. Personal properties of Vargas and Aquino do
not include jewels, and will be returned at a later date. Among
the valuables to be returned will be at least a dozen diamond rings,
one of which weighs in excess of eight karats. Several seven-karat
diamond rings are also included. Insured value of the jewels was
approximately$100,000.
Former President Laurel served as leader of the Philippine
government during the Japanese occupation and in May 1945 he and his
family left the Philippines and fled to Formosa. Following the
liberation of the Philippines, Ex-president Laurel was exonerated
in a people's court of having collaborated with the Japanese. Vargas,
who was ambassador from the Philippines to Japan during Japan's occu-
pation of the islands, was also cleared of collaboration charges.
The Philippine court which granted amnesty to the pair did so on the
grounds that while members of the government during Japan's occupation,
they acted under duress.
The jewels which are being returned to the Philippine government
were the property of the Laurel and Osias families when they fled the
Philippines, according to statements made by the present Philippine
government which has repeatedly sought the return of the jewels on
the basis that they are possessions of Philippine citizens.
Counter Intelligence Corps agents originally took possession of
the jewels.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
United States Political Adviser
AFFAIRS
for Japan
No. 154.
Tokyo, March 10, 1949.
wir
actin Taben Man. 30, 1948
REC'D.
UNCLASSIFIED
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
Au green
MAR 21
Subject: Not: ication of Japanese Land Re orm Program to
AC TION
Absatee Oners of Land in Japan.
FE
INFO
FR
The Honorable
DCR
The Secretary of State,
L
Nashington.
ITP
DS
Sir:
ARA
894.52
OLI
I/have the honor to refer to xiis 'issien's despatches
OFD
no. 2 of January 3, 1949 and no. 786 of December 16, 1948,
AGRI
forwarding information concerning ap. Lication of the Japanese
COM
land reform program to land owmed by absentee ovmers and by
persons of dual netionality one of hich is Japanese. As
indicated in deepatch no. 796, the Japanese Govomment wes
directed to submit a report to Healquarter, Cescribing the
CN
procedure it int onded to follow in not ifying owners of the
-164
purchase of their land.
The Japanese Government has noy qusted General Head-
quarters to tr nsnit to goverraents o cosnsries in which no
6
foreign power represent epan infea  o a gneral nature
concerning the appllcation of the lanst pufenn. Ferwarded here-
with is a copy ef a memerandun of Ferrrary l, 1949, frem the
Foreign Oftice of the Japanese Covern sent to General Headquarters,
containing this request and enelesing "he informetion which the
Japanese Government desires to bo conveyed to the Governments of
Colombia, Cuba and Venezuela, as well s be the United States
Government.
The Department 1s geod offices beth in appropriately pub-
do
licizing in the United State : bnd in  rnsmilting to the Goverm-
ments of Colombia, Cuba and enesuela the infermation contained
in the enclosure to the Foreign errice a penerandun of February 1l,
1949, would be appreeleted.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
W. J. Sebald
Copy of memorandum of
February 11, 1949, from
Foreign Office of Japanese
Government to General liead-
quarters.
502
RBFinn:hh
Parchment Mat to the Department.
Unclassified
APR6
69
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN:

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.96)
COHY
TO:
GENERAL HEAD JARTLRS JUREE COENAIDER FOR THE ALLDED
POWERS
THROUGH: Central Liaison and Coordination Office, Tokyo.
FROM:
Fcreign Office, Japanese Government.
SUBJECT: Purchase of Agricultural Lands in Japan Owned by
Japanese Residents Abroaci.
No. 12/CJ
11 February 1949.
1. Reference is mado to -
e. C.L.0. lenorandwn No. 4920 (RJ), 25 June 1947, subjeetil
"Request for Forwarding Explanatery Nete concerning New Farm Layd
Reform Law in Japan."
b. SCAP Menorandum, f11. 3 O04 (19 June 42) CIC/FP, SCAFIN.
191l, 19 June 1948, subjoot: ". pplicution for General Peruission
to Dispose of Properties in J ran Owned ly Persons Cutside of
Japan according to Law conoerniny Special Heasures for Establish-
ment of Owner Farmers."
c. SCAP Memorandun, fi1e AG C04 (19 June 48) CPC,TP, SCAPIN
1911/1, 4 December 1946, suby et: "Purclinee and Resale of Agri-
cultural Lands Owned hy Fersons c? Dual Nettorality."
2. Based on the authority given by the Hemoranda, reference b.
and c. above, the Japanese Government is going to purchase agri-
cultural lands in Japan cwned by Japanese resident abroad, and
accordingly it is desirous of making known univers. lly among the
Japanese nationals residing oversees the facts in this connestion
as explained in the enolosure herewith.
3. In the six countries, namely, !he Unitud States of Americe
(mainland), Canada, Cuba, Colombia, Venesuele, and Argentina,
where no foreign power represents apan in the matter of protection
of Japanese interest, there is no meane of making the necessary
information universally available for the Jupanere rosidente. Under
such cireumstances, therefore, the Japanese Government wishes to
request the General Headquarters, Suprume Commender for the Allied
Powers, kindly to forward the enalosed explanation to the authorities
conoerned of the respeotive countries with the request that all the
Japenese residents may be duly informed of the matter.
FOR THE VINISTER:

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.89)
On the Purchase of Aariculturel Lands in Japan Qwmed by Jananeme
Residente Abroed
The Japanese Government with the eim of establishing the
democratization of the srir itural land ystca after the war
enacted the Law concerming Special t sures for atablishment
of Owner Farmere, etc., on Oetober 21, 1?46, nd decided to
purchase the hole of gricuitural Lands c vued by pereons who
do not live at the place were much lands are locat ed and, in
the case of owners living where teir agricultural lands are
located but not att nding to tie cultivation  ereof themsolves,
the portion of such: lands in e cese of a certain area (4 "oho
in Hokkaido and averagely al cu' 1 "che" in le 'etropolis und
ot her prefeetures), as of Hore her 23, s, w te poell the
Lends so purchaeed o farmerr rluall
n r itiva
tion.
Por the ngricullural lands cmed y apanese restlents abroed
(incluling Wose ef lual matio alite) honwever, the applicetlon of
tue aatd provisiens wes deluged. But  ls beer decided tul
ti e thet the agirouaturel ods by i sanese cesidents
abroad who re regl ered ae .pr cse tie in the records
("koseki) of r, a of   o  er f e sa Law
concernin Speedel eures for  e  rer Frere,
n. ely,Gcsober , ,sed.
It is provided, :ouevr,
prsw aeregistered as
Japanese atlonels ic 'he resurd: of apen, os o? tober 2, 1946,
but who had really lost yoneae llity an' hecome foreign
netionale prior to the said ate may b pplic st tons tor the
cancellition of t purohase o te Lepane e sovermmert (Mindster
of Agriculture an: Forest ry) within  perior of twelve months from
the date of purchase, together vith the docwnents tesued by the
official authorities concerned which are conpotent enough to prove
the fact, and that the Japanese Covurnment, on confirming such fact,
will take the step of cancelling the purothese.
When the Japanese Government las puuc aned any agrdoultural
lands owned by Jayenece residlent abroad, he pits ? purehase of
sueh lands will he sent direct to the ounars of puch lands by
registered mail fron the Gevernors of Tuiyo Me ropolls, Hekkaido
or other pre t ures cone ernel, s ay be he case, together with
inquiries wh.  or not those owners are holders of Japanese
nationality. i is guugestu', however, that the application for
cancellation of purchase, as ment loned above, my be presented to-
guther with relevant documents, lmimdistely inatead of waiting for
the arrivel of the said writs of purchase.
It is to be added that the amounts paid as conaideration fer
the agricultural lands bought by the Government will tave offigdally
to be depesited for safe-keeping.
2.5.ac0

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
DRAFT
TO:
SA/M - Mr. hite
FROM:
NA - Mr. Bishop
The Department of State has been requested by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Fowers in Japan, on behalf of the Japanese
Government, to give appropriate publicity in the United States and
elsewhere to the purchase of agricultural lands in Japan owmed by
Japanese residents abroad.
Since the Japanese Government is about to purchase agricultural
lands in Japan owned by Japanese residents abroad, it is desirous
of making known universally among Japanese nationals residing overseas
the facts in this connection as explained in the attachment to this
memorandum.
The Department is transmitting this information to various
governments. It is suggested that appropriate publicity might be
given the matter in the United States through a press release
based on the attachment herewith, as well as through letters which
this Division proposes to send to the editors of leading Japanese
language papers in the United States.
Attachment:
NA:MGreen:br
3-30-49

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.97)
MWB
for cleanaais
DRAFT
3-30-49
Identic notes to Cuba, Venezuela
The Department of State has been requested by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan, on behalf of the Japanese
Cula
Government, to transmit to the Government of Colembia as well as to
other governments not represented in Japan certain information on
the purchase of agricultural lands in Japan owned by Japanese residents
abroad.
The Japanese Government is about to proceed with the purchase
of agricultural lands in Japan owned by Japanese residents abroad,
including persons of dual nationality one of which is Japanese. The
Japanese Government is accordingly desirous of making known univer-
sally among Japanese nationals residing overseas the facts in this
connection as explained in the enclosure to this memorandum.
FE:NA:MGreen:br

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.97)
Sent to the Venegue
31649
894.5
The Department of State has been requested by the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan, on
behalf of the Japanese Government, to transmit to the
894.52X3-1649
Government of Venezuela as well as to other governments
not represented in Japan certain information on the pur-
chase of agrioultural lands in Japan owned by Japanese
residents abroad.
The Japanese Government is about to proceed with
the purohase of agrioultural lande in Japan owned by
Japanese residents abroad, including persons of dual
nationality one of which 1s Japanese. The Japanese Govern-
ment is accordingly desirous of making known universally
CS A
among Japanese nationals residing overseas the faots in
this connection as explained in the enclosure to this
memorandum.
Enclosure:
Memorandum of Japanesc dovernment.
71949
APR
Department of State,
Washington, April 7, 1949%
FE:NA:MGreen:Klh

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.96)
Sunt to Colambin En
The Department of State has been requested by the
21649
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan, on
behalf of the Japanese Government, to transmit to the
Government of Colombia as well as to other governments
894.52/3-1649
not represented in Japan oertain information on the
purchase of agricultural lands in Japan owned by Japanese
residents abroad.
The Japanese Government 1s about to proceed with
the purchase of agricultural lands in Japan owned by
Japanese residents abroad, inoluding pereons of dual
nationality one of which 1s Japanese. The Japanese
Government is accordingly desirous of making known
CSA
universally among Japanese nationals residing overseas
the facts in this connection as explained in the enclosure
to this memorandum.
ar
Enclosure:
APR
71949
Memorandum of Japanese Government.
Department of State,
April 7,1949.
wy
4/1/49

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.96)
Sent te cuhan E
The Department of State has been requested by the
3-1649
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan, on behalf.
of the Japanese Government, to transmit to the Government
of Cuba as well as to other governments not represented
894.52/3-1649
in Japan certain information on the purchase of agrioul-
tural lands in Japan owned by Japanese residents abroad.
The Japanese Government 1s about to proceed with the
purchase of agricultural lands in Japan owned by Japanese
residents abroad, including persons of dual nationality
one of whioh 1s Japanese. The Japanese Government 1s
accordingly desirous of making known universally among
Japanese nationals residing overseas the facts in this
CS/A
connection as explained in the enclosure to this memorandum.
as
Enclosure:
as
Memorandum of Japanese Government.
Department of State,
APR7 1949
Washington,
on
MB mg.
CRB
ARA
1649
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
4/1/49

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.92)
ne/a
April 4, 1949
Dear Sirs:
As you may know, the Japanese Government is
about to purohase agricultural lands in Japan owned
by Japanese abroad and is desirous of making known
Cereular
universally among Japanese nationals residing overseas
the facts in this conneotion. These facts are set
forth in the enclosure herewith, which was prepared
by the Japanese Government.
894.52/4-449
I am sending the enolosure to you informally
with the thought that you may wish to give it notioe
in your newspaper.
Very truly yours,
P 
Max W. Bishop
Chief,
Division of Northeast Asian Affairs
Enclosure:
As stated.
6
S
Hokubei Mainichi,
h
展心
1471 Sutter Street,
0.7
San Francisco, California.
14.449
my.
FE:NA:MGreen:br:olh
4/4/49

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.90)
Copuy 202
mns
DIVISION OF
ARA
EMBAJADA DE CUBA
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAL
WASHINGTON,D. C.
APR18 1949
m
xn
DEPARTMENT OF SIAIL
894.52
ARA
The Embassy of Cuba presents its compliments
to the Department of State and has the honor to
acknowledge the receipt of note of April 7, 1949,
transmitting, at the request of the Supreme
894.52/4-1349
Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan on behalf
1997911 56
of the Japanese Government, a Memorandum containing
工
C
certain information on the purchase of agricultural
C)
lands in Japan owned by Japanese residents abroad.
RFC
In accordance with the request of the
Department, said Memorandum has been transmitted
to the Government of Cuba.
A2R231949
amx
April 13, 1949.
894.52/
153
S
APR 2 9 1949
FILED
039824
4-1349
inss
4μ
Got

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.93)
ACTION
is assigned to
DIVISION OF
EMBAJADA DE COLOMBIA
WASHINGTON
DC/2
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
APR2210491
→xu
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
7孔
The Colombian Embassy has been pleased
to transmit to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Co-
lombia the information contained in the Department's
note of April 7, 1949, regarding the purchase of a -
gricultural lands in Japan owned by Japanese residents
abroad, including persons of dual nationality one of
894.52/4-1949
which is Japanese.
心
2
Washington, D. C., April 19, 1949
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
894.52
No. 696
R
MAY 2 1949
CS/H
142137
FILED
w10
4-194

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.96)
kite
To:
A-C-Mr. Martin
FROM: FE-Mr. Fearey
Subject: Agrarian Reform during the Occupation of Japan
Since sending members of the economic divisions copies of the en-
closed paper, "Japan: Occupation Period: Agrarian Reform", I have had
the benefit of Messrs. Dickover's, Williams', Johansen's and others!
criticisms, which have led me to revise my views somewhat. I hope that
your group will be able to consider this paper shortly in the light of
the following changes and clarifications:
1. There should be no attempt at comprehensive agrarian reform
in the immediate post-hostilities period, ie. probably for six months
394.52/6-149
or more. Only after a fair measure of economic stability has been
achieved, and food production and distribution have been restored to
satisfactory working order should the possibility of instituting a
reform program be considered. This may mean the dissipation of part
of the spontaneous pressure for reform likely to exist among the farm-
ing class, which pressure will probably be greatest immediately before
and following surrender, but this would seem unavoidable. During this
emergency period, however, the military authorities should, where pos-
sible, avoid suppressing spontaneous efforts of the farmers in their
own behalf and, consistent with the effective production and dastribution
2
ED
1949
C
1
164101

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
1-a~
of foodstuffs, should not enforce regular payments of rents, interest, and
other obligations should the peasantry refuse to meet these obligations.
2. At the end of the emergency period the occupation authorities
should take note of any spontaneous movements for agrarian reform appear-
ing among the Japanese farming classes (led, possibly, by university
professors, government officials, political leaders and others, in addi-
tion to local or provincial farm leaders) and of the attitude of other
classes of the population in the matter. If there is a reform movement
of substantial proportions which is sympathetically received, or at
least is not strongly opposed by other classes in the population, ex-
cept the landlords, the military government, with the approval of the
appropriate authorities in Washington,

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
should afford it its encouregement and support. Sush
encouragement and support wight bo in the nature of e
"green light" to Japanese individuals and orgenizations
pressing the cause of sgrarian reform to draw up a
reform progrem to be initiated with the approval and
under the authority of military government.
3. In order that the ocoupation muthorities may be
in a position properly to appraise, and, if its advise is
sought, guide the preparation of the reform progrsm
presented to it for approval end eupport a tentative
reform program should be drayn up by the state, Agrieulture
and, poesibly, other Government departments and ageneles
for use at the time. This progrem, when completed, would
not receive formel Government approval, but would samply
be held in readiness until its proper use, if any, could
be determined during the ocoupation period.
4. Japanese leaders desirous of instituting a pro-
gram of agrarian reform would be told during the sbeve
mentioned emergenoy period that a program whioh appeared
to be widely supported by the Japanese people would
receive the blessing and aupport of the military government.
My peraonal preference would be for the militery
government to assume greater initiative in the matter.
However, the important thing for the present, as I see
1t, 1e that the problem be thoroughly studied by the
sppropriate agencies of the Government and that we be
prepared for whatever couree may be deoided upon later.
I therefore propose that the above prinoiples, which
have been supported by thoee with whom I have disoussed
the matter in recent weeks, be aocepted as the basis of
approach to the problem.
Mr. Ladejinsky's Civil Affaire Guide "Food and Agri-
oulture Program for Japan" was approved with certein
changes at a meeting in the Agrioulture Depertment last
Monday, May 28. It was agreed however, that the seetion
in the guide on land reform in Japan during the ocoupation
period should be deleted. This was decided, however.
with Mr. Ladejineky's approval, only efter I hmd aseured
the Committee that it was my underetanding that the ques-
tion of whether the matter of agrarien reform during the
occupation period might profitably be studied in the
Government was under consideration in the Department, and
that a decision would be reeched as soon ae possible.
I hope

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.97)
I hope you will not consider out of pleee my interest
in this matter, which derives frem the peried when I was
working primarily on Japan-economie problems.
I have taken the liberty of sending you in enother
envelope coples of some of the papers I wrote during
that period, certain parts of whieh may be of referenee
value in your work.
FE/R:RAF:11b

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Fele
DIVISOF
Afffice of the United States
Date of detion
NORTHEAST ASIAN
Political Adviser for Japan
Action Orfice Symbol
J121949
Tokyo, June 13, 1949.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REC DctiED
JUNE 21
894.52/6.1349
Subject: Headquarters Survey of Attitudes of Japanese Farmers.
AC2ION
INFO
The Chargé d'Affaires ad interim has the honor to enclose
FR
two copies of a survey dated May 21, 1949, entitled "Attitudes
DCR
of Farmers toward Rural Froblems". This survey, which was pre-
ITP
pared by the Civil Information and Education Section of General
Files
Central
DC/R
OLI
leadquarters, is based on int erviews vith lo0 heads of farm house-
AGRI ENC
holds in each of thirteen rural villages scattered throughout
Document Must Be Returnea 
Japan and is intended to repre sent a sample not of rural opinion
generally but of the opinion of heads of farm households. The
8
Intervi ews were conducted during November and December of 1948
by officials of Headquarters together with an official from the
10
United States Department of Agriculture.
The opinions recorded in the enclosed survey reflect un-
casinees among all classes of far iers concerning the present
esononic situat ion and future prospects. A majority of the farmers
6-1349
interviewed felt that the land refomm progran had been beneficial.
The enclosed survey also inlicates that some of the farmers are
not yet fully acquainted with various reforms and procedures in-
stihuted at the behest of the Cecupation and that there is still
a strong tundeney on the part of faraers to think in terms of
prewar social patterns.
The enclo sed survey is a prel irinary report by those officials
who studied rural conditions in ovember and December 1948. A full
report based on these studies is moy be ing prepared.
Enclcsure:
Two copies of survey dated
May 21, 1949, by Civil
Information and Education
Section, "Attitudes of
Faraers toward Rural Problems".
521
JUL 1 4 1952
RBFinnchh
FILED
CS/H
Farchnent mat to Department.
RESTRICTED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKE

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 377 dated June 13, 1949
from USPOL
R E S T R I C T E D subject: Headquarte
RESTRICTED
af Attitudes of Japan
Farmers"
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREE COIMAN ER FCR THE ALLIEJ POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
in conjunction with
Natural Resources Section
SURVEY
SERIES
ATTITUES OF FAR ERS TCARD RURAL PROBLEMS
Fublic Upinion and Sociological Research Division
21 May 1949
R E S T R I C T E D
RESTRICTED

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Survoys published in this serios repre-
sent studies sonducted by this Division or
by this Division in cooporation with othor
organizations. Theso studies are dosigned
to provido information oither requested by
SCAP staff sections or by Eighth Army
Military Governmont, or doemed to bo of
concorn to them.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLEMS
Table of Contents
Page
Foreword
i
Introduction
ii
.)
Summary
1
I
General Economic Problems of Farmers
4
II
Use of Appeal Prooedures
10
III
Attitudes Toward the Land Reform Program
13
IV
Landlord-Tenant Relations
18
V
Attitudes Toward the Local Land Commissions
22
VI
Attitudes Toward the Village Agricultural
Cooperatives
29
VII
Attitudes Toward the Inheritance of Land
32
VIII
Use of Information Media
35
R E S T R I C T E D

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
FOREWORD
During November and December of 1948, Dr. Arthur F. Raper,
Bureau of Agricultural Economics, U. S. Department of Agricul-
ture, in conjunction with the Natural Resources and the Civil
Information and Education Sections of General Headquarters, Su-
preme Commander for the Allied Powers, conducted a survey of 13
rural villages in Japan.
The purpose of the survey was primarily to assess changes
-- particularly those concerning the effects of tne land reform
program -- which had taken place in the villages since a simi-
lar survey made in May and June of 1947. A forthcoming report
will present tie general findings of the 1948 survey.
The present report contains only the materials obtainod
from a questionnairo submitted to hoads of farm houscholds in
the villages. It is boing published in advanco of the completo
report so that Military Government Teams, SCAP staff sections,
and othor organizations having an oporational or a policy mis-
sion may have these findings at thoir disposal as soon as pos-
sible. For a detailed description of lifo in the villages, and
for final conclusions and recommondations, the reader is ro-
ferred to tho forthcoming report.
1
RESTRICTED

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED.
INTRODUCTION
During a survey of 13 rural villages throughout Japan1 conducted in
November and ecember, 1948, a questionnaire was given to a sample of the
heads of farm households in each village. The sample was not intended to
be a representative cross section of the population of rural communities
throughout Japan, but only a sample of the heads of farm households2 of
1. A list of the villages surveyed follows:
Ebetsu,Hokkaido
Mizuwake, Iwate Prefecture
Yokogoshi, Niigata Prefecture
Nobuta, Nagano Prefecture
Karako, Saitama Prefeoture
Futomi, Chiba Prefecture
Kawashiro, Shizuoka Prefecture
Nikaido, Nara Prefecture
Übie, (kayama Prefecture
Aioi, Kagawa Prefecture
Yoshida, Shimane Prefecture
Suye, Kumamoto Prefecture
2. In each village, it was found that between five and l0 of the
selected heads of farm households were unable to appear personally to
fill out a questionnaire. In.such cases, another member of the family
(usually a wife or a son) filled out the questionnaire.
ii
RESTRICTED

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
the jelected villages.3 It is, therefore, a sample of a specialised group
and should be interpreted as such.
3. owever with respect to tenure status, the sample percentages corres-
pond very closely to those found in the total rural population.
Tonure Status as of September 1946
The sample
All Japan*
Number of
Percentage
heads of
of all
Number of
Pereentage of
Catogory
households
respon lents
households
all farmers
Tenants
599
46.08%
2,427,495
44.88%
Owner-
cultivators
594
45.69
2,446,433
45.23
Lanuloris
93
7.15
535,412
9.89
Unknown**
14
1.08
1,300
100.00%
5,409,340
100.00%
* Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Based upon
numbor of registered voting households for the 1946 land
commission elections.
** Fourteen respondents failod to note thoir status on their
questionnuire. The responses to these questionnaires were
omitted in this analysis in all tonura status breakdowns.
Tonure St tus as of November-ucember 1948
Thu sampio
All Japan*
Number of
Percentage
heads of
of all
Number of
Purcontage of
Category
housohol1s
respon tents
houscholis
_all farmers
Tenants
113
8.69%
**
8.3
Owner-
cultivators
1121
86.23
83.8
Landlords
52
4.00
7.9
Unknown
14
1.08
1,300
100.00%
5,909,227***
100.00%
* Estimates only. Sourco: Ministry of Agriculture and Forostry.
** Exact figures for subtotals not available.
*** As of 1947. Source: Monthly Statisticcl Bullctin, No. 115,
August 1948, Ministry of Agriculture and Forostry.
iii
RESTRICTED

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
Because of time and staff limitations, the size of the sample in
each village was limited to approximately 100 rosponients. Exactly 100
heads of farm households were selected in oach village, regardless of
the total number of farm housoholds. These individuals were solected
from the Land Commission olection registry for 1946. These:registries
contain information concerning all farmers in a village: the size of
their family, the size of thoir holdings, the amount of land ronted to
or from others, and the location of their home. They were used in this
study is the basis for select ing the sample partly because they are
completo, accurate, and acccssible, but largely because they contain
informntion upon which a sampie based upon tonure status prior to the
land reform could be dram. The l946 cntries in those rogistries were
made curront as of the date of tho sample, i e., death and other por-
sonal c'anges not related to land roform were taken into consideration.
The sarple, thorofore, contains landlords. tonants, and owaer cultivators
in prop rtion to their rumbars in Septomoor 94, and was so constructed
in prd to reflect the reacuions of each group to the Land voform pro-
gram.
To csh village the 100 casos were selected oy the teehnigue of
stratif ed random sampling. That is, they vere seioited ranooaly from
the registry in propertion to tho number of landlords, tenants, and
owner-cultivators in onch by csu as os 1945. J. is believed that this
method of sampling has reouited in a sampiing orror ranging between
one end seven percent per village, depenling upon the proportion of
responsos in any given answer category.
School toachers wero trained in each village to cdminister the
questionnaire. The individuals seloctod for tho sample camo to the
school building or the village office and filled out the questionnaire
themselves. A small proportion of cases in each village sample were
interviowed directly by the rosearchers in ordor to test the goneral
validity and meanings of responses. Respondents were asked not to
reveal thoir names and were urged to be completely frank and honest in
their responses.
Limitations of space do not permit the inclusion of all of the
survoy data obtained. Only those tabulations which seom to have the
most significance have been included. For purposes of uniformity,
all "no rosponse" answers hove been excluded from the porcentage cel-
culations, unless stated otherwise. Similarly, all represontntions
by tenure status and nll references to tonure status are on the basis
of pre-land roform tenure status, unloss othorvise st-tod. This hcs
boen dono for two rensons. First, it results in a more accurate analy-
sis of the opinions and reactions of the tonure groups most affected
by the land reform program, the pre-land reform tenants and landlords,
and second, it is a ropresentation which reflects the criteria used in
the sample design.
iv
RESTRICTEL

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
It should be noted that the terms used to describe tenure status in
this report may not always correspond to the commonly accepted definitions
of the words, but rather refer to the definitions used in land reform legis-
lation.4 A tenant is defined as a person engaging in cultivation who either
owns no agricultural land or who cultivates.at least twice as much land as
he owns; a landlord as a person who does not cultivate the land he owms or
who owms at least twice as much land as he cultivates; and an owmer-cultivator
as a person who cultivates, but who does not belong in either of the previous
categories.
The number of individuals or items represented by each l00 percent has
been designated by the symbol "n."
Because of the scope of t e survey of rural villages, the questionnaire
contained a wide variety of questions. Some of them were intended to secure
factual material concerning the lives of the farmers, and others to obtain
opinions and attitudes. In this analysis the questions have been subsumed
under eight chapter headings. Each chapter contains a brief background
statement, and an analysis of the responses to the questions which pertain
to the subject of tne chapter. Space limitations have prohibited the pre-
sentation of all of t e tabular materials, and only those representations
which bear most directly upon the subject under discussion have been ineluded.
However, representations of the data which might conflict vith the general
interpretations made have not been excluded; the materials which have been
excluded are those which offer only supplementary ovidenco.
4. Agricultural Land Adjustment Law, Law Number 42, 22 October 1946.
V
RESTRICTED

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED:
R E S T R I C T E D
SUMMARY
General Economic Probloms of Farmers
There is evidence of considerable and widespread uneasiness among all
classes of farmers concerning their curront economic situation and their
prospects for the near future. A majority of all farmers felt that their
living conditions had worsened in tho last year. Income taxes, the clothing
shortago, and the general high prices are frequent sources of hardship.
Most of t e farmers cither dofinitely expect an agricultural depression or
are afraid that one may come.
Use of Appeal Procedures
A majority of the farm rs in all tenure groups vere avare of the fact
that appeal procedures are available. More farmors knew of income tax
appeal procedures then knew of grain quota appeal prooedures, and about
one-quarter of the farmers actually had mede an appeal. There was great
variation in the villnge-by-village results, reflecting local conditions,
but in 10 of the 13 villages, the number of appeals to the income tax as-
sessmonts wns significantly and in some cases markodly higher than the
number of appenls to grain quotas.
Attitudes Tovard the Land Reform Program
One-half of all t:e farmers and over two-thirds of the tonants folt
that the land reform program had benefited their families, and more than
one-half of all the farm rs and exactly two-thirds of the tenants felt that
the program had been beneficial to their village. The program was generally
unpopular among landlorus. Fifty percent of all the farmers felt that land-
lords should not bo allowed to retain land other than that which they cul-
tivate thcmselves. While the general level of satisfaction with the land
reform program seoms to be high, many specific complaints were voiced by
farmers. The most frequently mentioned points of dissatisfaction wore that
landlords should not have been permitted to retain so much land cultivated
by othors, that land purchaso was unduly complex, and that forest, meadow,
and unreclaimed land should have been included in the program.
Landlord-Tenant Relations
At the time of tie survey, cight percent of all farmers renting land
from others reported that they had a written tenancy contract for all of
the rented land, 22 pereent reported that they had a contract for part,
and 70 percent reported tiat tpey had no written contrect. The samo pro-
portions vere found among persons renting land to others, Hovever, a
majority of all tonure groups felt that a written contract is necessary,
RESTRIC TED

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
2
SURVEY SERIES
and an even larger majority felt that the conditions of the contraot should
bo written in detail. Sixty-two percont of all tho farmers preferred payment
of rent in cash rather t an in kind. A majority of all temure groups folt
that tonants should not be allowed to sublet land vithout the consent of the
owmer.
Attitudes Toward the Local Land Commissions
A large majority of tne farmers stated that they had voted in the land
commission olections of 1946. Nearly tvo-thirds of them thought tint their
local commission mombers were the bost porsons for t e job.
The methed usod by the land commissions to determine individual eligi-
bility to purchase land was approved by a majority. Higher percentages of
ownor-cultivators, people who folt thet the land reform program had boen bene-
ficial to their family, and people cultivating larger plots of land, thnn of
the responlents as a whole, approved of the mothod used.
A majority stated without qualification that they thought that those
villagers who had bought land during the program were satisfied witn the
handling of their cases by the land commission and that they thomselves were
satisfied with the hendling of thoir om cases.
The principlo of price controls for t e sale of land, administered by.
the local land commissions, was favored by a majority, although one-fifth
of all farmers thought that t e matter was one to be settled either by the
commission or by the concerned partios, depending upon the circumstances.
When asked to select tho proper method of settling problems arising from
delay in paying rent on the part of a tenant, 78 percent of the farmers re-
plied t at tho land commission should settle the issue in some or all circum-
stances. Tenants tonded to favor settlement by the land commission and
landlords settloment by consultation between the concerned parties.
Attitudes Tovard the Village Agricultural Cooperatives
Tho village agricultural cooperatives aro visited often by two-thirds
of the farmers, although 13 percent of tho post-land reform lnndlords re-
ported that they never go to the cooperative. A majority of all tenure
groups expressed qualified confidonce in the prosent officials of the co-
operative and over one-quarter exprossed full confidence. About a third of
the farmers expressed a favorable attitude toward the inclusion of women
among the officinls, whilo 43 percent thought that it vould make no difference.
Attitudes Toward the Inheritance of Land
Over three-quarters of the farmers vhose familics had previously pos-
sessed land reported thet primogeniture has been the custom in their family
in the past, and only four percent reported that the land has been equally
divided among dil sons.
DESTRICOE

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARIERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLEMS
Presented with a hypothetical situation in which they had two mons and
one daughtor, and could act as they pleased, only 16 percent of the farm
stated simply that they would give their land to ths eldost son. Almost
half of the farmors wished to give the land to the son who would begome a
farmer.
When asked if t ey thought that t e eldest son should be exoused from
his traditional duties to the family if the land were divided equally,
farmers of all temure groups expressed divided opinion: 40 percent said
"yes," 50 percent said "no," and 10 percent were undecided.
Two-thirds of the farmers thought that if all the sons and daughters
were given land equnlly the family would be unable to get along.
Use of Information Media
A large majority of the farmers reported that they take a newspaper.
Subscriptions are almost ovenly divided between a national pmper and a.local
or a rogional mper. Over 80 percent of the subscribers wore satisfied with
their present neuspaper, and only 12 percent wanted to change.
Radio ownership averages 64 percent, and eppears to have risen in the
past 18 months. Higher percentagos of owner-cultivators, landlords, and
cultivators of tho larger tracts of lend own radios ten do tenants and
smaller operators. A majority of all respondents reported that they listen
both to tho "Early Bird" and the "New Farm Villago" radio programs.
SICTED

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
· RESTRICTED
Chapter I
GENRAL ECONCMIC PROBLEMS OF FARMERS
Thore is ovidence of considerable and videsproad unersiness among all
classes of farmers concorning their curront economic situation and their
prospects for tho nenr future. This underlying anxiety affects all farmors,
whether or not t'oy feel that they havo been benofited by the land reform
program.
The majority of all tenure groups, including tonants (a large majority
of whom havo become owmer-cultivators under the land reform program), felt
that their living conditions had worsoned in the last year. Only 13 percent
felt that there had been an improvoment. The prevailing possimism seoms to
be independent of experience vith the land roform program, as thero was no
appreciable tendency for farmors who felt thut the land roform program had
not beon benoficial to their femily to fool that living conditions were now
Worse than last year. The grievances most froquently montioned by all tenure
groups are high incomo taxes, the scarcity of clothing, and the general high
prices.
Question: How aro living conditions in your family as compared with last year?
All respondonts
Bettor
13%
Same
33
Worso
51
Don't know
3
100%
n = 1,298
Of thoso farmers nho thought that tho
land reform program had
Those porcontages
Not boen
thought thnt living
Boon
beneficial
conditions compared
All
bencficial
to their
Made no
with last year woro!
rospondents
to thoir family
family
difference
Botter
13
14%
7%
11%
Sano
33
33
34
34
Worse
51
52
55
53
Don't know
3
1
4
2
100%
100%
100%
100%
N = 1,298
n = 621
n = 168
n=366
-4-
RESTRICTED

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICT
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLEMS
Question: What are the greatest difficulties in your living conditlons at
the present time?
Percentage of
respondents who
mentioned the
Item causing difficulty
item
Income tax
31%
Clothing
25
High prices
19
Food
12
Quotas
11
Money
6
Shortage of fertilizer
41
Shortage of labor
Others
4
*
* These percentages add to more than 100
percent, as a total of 1,195 farmers (92
percent of the sample) supplied 1,364
answers to this question. Some farmers
gave more than one answer.
Not only do farmers feel that living conditions have become worse
during the past year; a majority of them reported a feeling of pessimism
over the economic prospects for the coming year. Most of the farmers
either definitely expect an agricultural depression or think that one may
come. Only seven percent of tno farmers felt definitely that there was no
prospect of a depression.
Question: Do you think a severe depression will cone during the next twelve
months?
All respondents
Yes
42%
Maybe
36
No
7
Don't know
15
100%
n = 1,281
The expectation of an agricultural depression was to some extent con-
ditioned by the farmer's estimate of his current economic situation as
compared with last year. A farmer who felt that his living conditions
RESTRICTED

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
SURVEY SERIES
had worsened. was more likely to expect a depression than a farmer who had
experienced some improvenent in conditions.
Of those farmers who
These percentagas
thought that living
thought (concerning
conditions in their
the probability of
family compared with
a severe depression
last year were:
during the next
A1l
twelve months) that:
respondents
Better
Same
Worse
It would come
42%
38%
32%
50%
Maybe it would come
36
34
46
31
It would not come
7
12
9
4
Didn't know
15
16
13
15
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,281
n = 157 n = 427 n = 669
Similarly, the farmer's evaluation of his current condition was in-
fluenced strongly by his view of future prospects. Farmers who felt that
a depression was bound to cone were much more. pessimistic about their
living conlitions than farmers who were not anticipating a depression.
Of thoso farmers who thought
These percentages
(concerning the probability of
thought that living
a severe dopression coming dur-
conditions in their
ing the noxt twolve months that):
family compared with
All
It would
Maybe it
It would
last year vore:
respondents
come
voula come
not come
Better
13%
11%
12%
22%
Same
33
26
42
46
Worse
51
62
44
31
Didn't knov
3
2
1
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,298
n=533
n = 464
n = 86
RESTRICTED

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARERS TOVARD RURAL PROBLEMS
The income tax seomed to be of predominant concern to farmers. While
there is evidence on this point independent of the findings of the questio
naire, 31 percent of the respondents spontaneously mentioned income taxes
as one of their greatest difficulties at the present time. Furthermore, a
plurality, 49 percent, of those farmers who had been assessed for an income
tax felt that their own tax was unfair compared with that of others. One-
half of the farmers felt that the grain quotas and the income taxes were
equally difficult to bear; of the other half of respondents, a larger pro-
portion felt t at the taxes were more difficult than the grain quotas.
Question: (To those who were assessed for an income tax) o you think
your income tax assessment is fair as compared with that of others?
Fair
24%
Unfair
49
Don't know
27
100%
n = 1,198
Question: (To those who were assessed for an income tax and had grain
quotas to meet) Which do you find harder to bear, the grain quota or the
income tax?
Grain quota
15%
Income tax
25
Equally hard
57
Don't know
3
100%
n = 1,136
While not mentioned as the most burdensome by as many farmers as the
income tax, the grain quota is nonetheless a serious grievance. Thirty-
eight percent of those farmers who had quotas to meet felt that their
quota was unfair compared vith that of others (in contrast to 47 percent.
who thought that their quota was fair).
Question: (To those with grain quotas to meet) Do you think your grain
quota is fair as compared with that of others?
Fair
47%
Unfair
38
Don't know
15
100%
n = 1,172
RESTRICTED

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
SURVEY SERIES
As.a consequence of the large number of now village projects in a
period of inflation, there has been a substantial increase in local assess-
ments and contributions of all kinds. The majority of the farmers feel
some of them to be a burdon.
-Question: How do you feol about the village assessments and contributions?
All
rospondents
Reasonable
15%
Somo reasonable,
some difficult
68
Difficult
10.
Don't know
7
100%
n = 1,279
As many farmers feel that thoir own assessmonts are unfair as feel
thom to bo fnir.
Question: Do you think your village assossments are unfair as compared with
those of others?
All
respondents
Fair
37%
Unfair
36
,Don't know
27
100%
n = 1,261
Nearly one-fourth of the respondents complained about the excessivenoss of
village assessments and contributions and about tne nature of tho systom
itself. . fany specific complaints vere mado concerning assessments for
particular purposes.
RESTRICIED

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TO:ARJ RURAL PROBLEMS
Question: What kinds of village assessnents and contributions do you find
difficult?
Percentage of
respondents
who mentioned
Kinus of assessmonts
this kind
(Genoral complaints concerning
excossiveness end the nature
of the system itself)
24%
Ones for schools
5
Ones for "unknovm purposos"
443
Ones for temples and shrinos
Ones for the Community Chost
Ones for local entortainments
2
Ones for lotteries
1
Ones for t e polico offico
1
Ones for villago organizations
other then the above
6
*
n =.644
* These percentages add to less than lo0 percent
as a total of 612 farmers (47 percont of the
samplo) supplied 644 answers to this question.
Some farmers gave moro than ono answer.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
Chapter II
USE CF APPEAL PROCEJURES
In order to minimize injusticos, appoal procedures have been established.
These cnable farners who feel that their crop quotas or their income tax
assessnents are too high to rogistor an official appoal to their agricultural
cooperative or their local tax office. A majority of the farmers in all
tenure groups were aware of tie fact thrt appoel procedures were available. 
Moro farmers knew of income tax eppeal procedures than knei of grain quota
appecl proceduros.
Question: (To those with grain quotas to meet) If you consider your grain
quote unfair, is it possible to appeal it?
Yos
64%
No
22
Don't know
14
100%
n = 1,262
Question: (To those who were assessou for an income tax) If you consider
your income tax assessment unfair, is it possible to nppeal it?
Yos
72%
No
14
Don't know
14
100%
n = 1,269
About one-quarter of tho farnors not only know of the xistence of
appeal procedures, but had actually made appenls. This is true of all three
tonure groups. Village-by-village responses, presumably roflecting local
conditions, show grent variation. In Nikaido, for oxample, only 17 percent
of the farners reported that they had appoaled a grain quota, while 38 per-
cent reported that they had appec led an income tax assossment; in Honami,
36 percont roported that they had appoaled a grain quota and 46 percent
that they had appocled a tax assess hent. In 10 of tho 13 villages, appeals
to the income tax assess nents were significantly and in some cases markedly
higher than appeals to grain quotas. The porcenteges of farners who had
appealed their assessments ana quotes, and who also thought then unfair, was
twico that of those who hau not appealed and thought then to be fair.
10
RESTRICTED

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUJES OF FARMERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLEMS
Question: (To those with grain quotas to meet) Havo you ever appealed
grain quota?
Yes
25%
No
75
100%
n = 1,195
Question: (To those who were assessed for an income tax) Have you ever
appealed an income tax assessment?
Yes
30%
No
70
100%
n = 1,217
Of those farmers who had a
These percentages
grain quota to meet and
thought(conoerning
reported that they:
a comparison between
their grain quotas
and those of ot ers)
A11
Had
Had not
that theirs was:
respondents
appealed it
appealed it
Fair
47%
30%
54%
Unfair
38
64
30
Didn't know
15
6
16
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,172
n = 291
n = 904
RESTRICTED

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
12
SURVEY SERIES
Of those farmers who were
These percentages
assessed for an income tax
thought (concerning
and reported that they:
a comparison between
their tax assessments
and those of others)
All
Had
Had not
that theirs was:
responuents
appealed it
appealed it
Fair
24%
14%
28%
Unfair
49
74
38
Didn't know
27
12
34
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,198
n = 369
n = 848
RESTRICTE

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Chapter III
ATTITU DES TOARD THE LAND REFORM PROGRAM.
In the early days of the land reform, critics expressed some doubt
concerning the reaction of Japanese farmers. However, at the time of the
present survey, the greatest part of the farmcrs, especially of the former
tenants, was satisfied with the land reform program. One-half of all the
respondents, and over two-thirds of those who had been tenants prior to
the land reform program, reported that their families had been benefited.
More than one-haif of all the respondents and exactly two-thirds: of the
tenants felt that the land reform program had been beneficial to their
village. As expocted, the program was unpopular among the former landlords.
The majority of them reported that the program had not been beneficial to
their family, and only 37 percent stated that the program had been good for
their village.
Question: o you think tho land reform program is good for your village?
By tenure status
All
Owmer-
Land-
respondents
Tenants
cultivators
lords
Yes
57%
66%
50%
37%
No
5
4
5
16
Both good and bad
28
20
35
37
Don't know
10
10
10
10
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,276
n = 597
n.= 586
n = 93
Question: Was the land roform program beneficial to your family?
By tenure status
All
Owmer-
Land-
respondonts
Tenants
cultivators
lords
Yes
50%
68%
38%
8%
No
14
4
16
61
Made no-difference
29
22
39
27
Don't know
7
7
4
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,231
n= 583
n = 562
n = 86
13
RESTRICTED

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
14
SURVEY SERIES
In addition to the general finding that the land reform program had
been beneficial, it was found that 39 percent of all of the farmors inter-
viewed, and 47 percent of the tonants, felt positively that without the
land reform, conditions would have been worse than they are at present.
Question: If there had been no land reform program, how do you think living.
conditions in the village would have been?
By tenure status
A11
Owner-
Land-
respondents
Tenants oultivators
lords
Better
8%
8%
7%
12%
Worse
39
47
34
21
No different
37
30
43
51
Don't know
16
15
16
16
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,278
n = 598
n = 587
n = 9;
The farmers' evaluation of the land reform program seems to be based
largely upon the actual benefits they have themselves derived from it,
rather than upon more theoreticel considerations. For example, a majority
of those farmers who felt that conditions in tne village would havo been
worse without the land reform program thought t at the program had been
beneficial to their family, while less than one-fourth of them thought that
the program had not boen beneficial to their family.
Of those who thought that the
These percentages
land roform progran had:
thought that if
there had been no
land roform living
Not been
Made no
conditions in the
Been beno- beneficial difference
village would have
All
ficial to
to their
to their
been:
respondents
their familyfamily
fumily
Better
8%
9%
9%
4%
Worse
39
57
24
23
No different
37
23
56
57
Didn't know
16
11
11
16
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,280
n = 616
n = 167
n = 365
RESTRICTED

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLEMS
The correlations between pre-land raform-tenancy status and post- land
reform attitudes deserve special emphasis. Tenants, for whose betterment
the program was initiated, expressed the greatest enthusiasm. Only eight
percent of them thought that conditions in the village would have been better
had there been no land reform, while 47 percent thought they would be worse,
and 30 percent that they would not have been different. Landlords, on the
other hand, vere more critical. That numbers of them are able to be ob-
jective concerning general village conditions is attested to by the fact
that a large majority of them felt that the land reform program had been
either good or both good and bad for the village, while only 16 perdent of
them thought that it had definitely been bad. However, only eight percent
of the landlords felt that the program had been beneficial to their own
family, and a majority,of them, 6l percent, thought definitely that it had
not. The distinction that landlords seem to make between "good for. the
village" and "good for my family" is demonstrated by several facts. Only a
slightly higher percentage of landlords than of other groups thought that
living conditions in the village would have been better had there been no
land reform, and 21 percent of the landlords expressed the belief that con-
ditions would have been worse.
The land reform program did not seek to destory tenancy completely,
but rather to reduce it to a minimum and to eliminate its evils. Although
absentee landlordism was totally eliminated, resident landlords were per-
mitted to rotain a certain amount of land for tenant cultivation under con-
ditions specified by law. In April 1949, the total area thus retained and
cultivated by tenants was about 600,000 cho, or approximately 10 percent
of t e total arable land in Japan. Critics of the land reform program have..
contended that these retention provisions are inimical to the stated purpose
of the legislation, and are an invitation to the landlords to maintain their
traditional control in the rural community. Supporters of the law have re..
plied that the margin of permissible tenancy which these provisions allow.
is sound for farm management reasons, as it pormits that measure of flex-.
ibility required to adjust tenure conditions to tho changing social and
economio requiremonts of individual farm operators. In the present survey,
all respondents were asked.how they felt about this much discussed point.
Thirty-four percent of them thought that this retention should be permitted,
50 percent thought that it should not, and 16 percent stated that they did
not know. As might be expected, tenants were the most critical of the pro-
vision, although 20 percent of them favored tho law as it stands.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
SURVEY SERIES
Question: It has been argued that a landowmer should not be allowed to re-
tain any land other than that which he actually cultivmtes himself. How do
you feel about this?
By tonure status
A1l
Owner-
Land-
respondents
Tenants
cultivators
lords
He should
34%
.20%
45%
70%
He should not
50
63
40
21
Don't know
16
17
15
9
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,279
n = 595
n = 591
n = 93
Of the farners who reported that the land reform program had been bene
ficial to their family (a najority of whom were tenants prior to the land
reform), nearly two-thirds thought that landlords should not be allowed to
retain the excess land, while of those who reported that the progran had.
not been beneficial, nearly two-thirds thought that landlords should be al-
lowed to retain the land.
Of those who thought that the
These percentages
land reform program had:
thought (concern-
ing a land-ormer's
being allowed to
retain any land
Not been
Made no
other than that which
Been bene-
benefioial differenee
he actually culti-
All
ficial to
to their
to their
vatos himself) that:
respondents
their family
family
family
He should
34%
25%
64%
40%
He should not
50
64
28
42
Didn't know
16
11
8
18
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,279
n = 616
n = 167
n = 365
1. This issuo seems to be a critical one in the lives of the farmers.
When respondents were asked directly what points of dissatisfaetion they
had with the law, the most frequently mentioned specific complaint was
that landlords should not have been permitted to retain so much land cul-
tivated by others. (See next paragraph)

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TO/AR) RURAL PROBLEMS
While the general level of satisfaction with the land reform program
seems to be high, many specific complaints concerning inadequacies of the
program, local conditions, and unfairness were voiced by farmers. Twenty
four percent of the farmers interviewed offered specific observations? The
most frequently mentioned points of dissatisfaction were the following:
landlords should not have been permitted to retain so much land oultivated
by others; land purchase was unduly complex; and forest, meadow, and un-
reclaimed land should have been included in tie program. Many of the points
relate to local conditions or individual cases, for example, claims of un-
fair treatment by the land commission. Others, however, such as the sug-
gestion that other lands be included within the categories of land subject
to reform, touch on broader problems. The release of forest land, for
example, is considered by some farmers to be a pressing problem in mountain-
ou areas.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Chapter IV
LANDLORD-TENANT RELATIONS
Before the land reform program was put into effect, the Japanese tenant
farmer was' substantially at the mercy of his landlord. Contractual arrange-
ments were rarely formal and explicit, and in cases of doubt the landlords
interpretations generally prevailed. A majority of these arrangements were
oral. Under traditional tenancy, the land rental was commonly paid in kind,
rather than in cash. This arrangement was frequently a burden upon tenants,
for the rent was usually a stipulated amount of grain, set by the landlords,
'and determined before the harvest on the basis of yields harvested during
good seasons. In the event of a bad harvest, a tenant had to turn over a
majority of his total crop to his landlord as rent, and buy food to eat at
the high prices common during a bad harvest year.
The provisions of land reform legislation stipulated changes in these
conditions. In order to provide tenants with security of tenure and pro-
tection from dishonest landlords, the legislation provided that all tenant-
landlord agreements be written, and that all written contracts be registered
at the village office. It was also stipulated that contracts would specify
the amount of farm rent, the terms of payment, the period of temure, the
conditions which would warrant rent reductions, and the provisions under which
certain expenses incurred by the tenant would be shared by the landlord and
under which remuneration for immovable improvements would be granted tenants
in case of lease termination.
At the time the survey was made, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's
program for promoting tenancy agreements had been in effect only six months.
Nevertheless, eight percent of all farmers renting land from others reported
that they had a written tenancy contract for all of the land, and 22 percent
reported that they had a contract for part of their land, while 70 percent
reported that they had no written contract for the land they rented from
others. The same proportions were found among persons renting land to others.
Question: Do you have a written contract on leased land?
Persons renting
Persons renting
from others
to others
All
8%
8%
Part
22
22
None
70
70
100%
100%
n = 570
n = 289
18
RESTRIC

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TOARD RURAL PROBLENG
A majority of all tenure groups folt that a writton tenancy contraot
is necossary, and an even largor majority felt that if temncy eontracts
wore concluded, the conditions of the contract should be written in detail
Question: Do you think it necessary to oxchange writton tonant contracts
when you loase or lot land?
All
rospondonts
Yes
54%
Depends upon the man and
tho circumstances
33
No
4
Doesn't mattor
5
Don't know
4
100%
n = 1,269
Question: Do you think it nocessary to write all the conditions in dotail
in a tonancy contract?
All
rospondonts
Yos
76%
No
10
Doesn't matter
10
Don't know
4
100%
n = 1,273
Si wo percent of all rospondonts preforred puyment of rent in
cash rath tan in kind.... As might bo oxpoctod, tenents and landlords
diffored vidoly in their proferencos, and owmer-cultivators tendod to
support tho tenant point f viev. Seventy-seven percent of the tonants
preforred payment of rent in cash, as did 51 porcent of the owner-culti-
vators, whilo 63 percent of the landlords favored payment in kind.
Quostion: Without regard to whether prices are high or low, which do you
think is better; payment of rent in cash or payment of rent in kind?
RESTRICTED

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
20
SURVEY SERIES
By tenure status
All
Owner-
Land-
respondents
Tenants
cultivators
lords
Payment in kind
18%
6%
24%
63%
No difference
14
11
18
15
Payment in cash
62
77
51
20
Don't know
6
7
2
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,280
n = 598
n = 592
n = 90
'Preferenoes differed widely according to the extent to which the re-
spondents thought that the land reform program had been beneficial to their
family. A large majority of those farmers who thought that their family
had been benefited by the program also favored the payment of rent in cash.
A plurality of the respondents wio felt that the progran had not been bene-
ficial to their family favored the payment of rent in kind, while nearly
four out of every five who thought that land reforn had been beneficial to
their family favored payment in cash. This might be expected, as the
majority of those who benefited were tenants.
Question: Was the land reforn program beneficial to your family?
Of those who felt that the
land reforn program had:
Been
bene-
Not been
These percentages
ficial
beneficial
preferred pay-
All
to their
to their
Made no
ment of rent
respondents
family
family
difference
In kind
18%
7%
49%
24%
In eash
62
79
29
52
Made no difference
14
10
18
18
Didn't know
6
4
4
6
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,280
n = 616
n = 167
n = 365
There has been a good deal of discussion about the right of tenants
to sublet their land without the consent of the landlord. Most of the
farmers felt that this is wrong, although there was a higher percentage
of objections from landlords than from tenants.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLEMS
Question: Do you think that it is all right for a tenant to sublet leased
land without the landlord's consent?
By tenure status
All
Owner-
Land-
respondents
Tenants
cultivators
lords
Yes
10%
14%
8%
2%.
No
82
78
85
94
Don't know
8
8
7
4
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,282
n = 599
n = 591
n = 92
RESTRICTF

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRUC
Chapter V
ATTITU DES TOWAR THE LOCAL LAND COMMISSIONS
Land reform legislation provided for the election of a local land com-
mission in every city, town, and village in Japan to administer the program.
As the executive organs of the land reform program, the local land com-
missions drafted the purchase plan for each village, determined the suit-
ability of lands to be purchased, established prices within legal limits,
verified the eligibility of purchasers, decided cases requiring unusual or
special treatment, and effected the actual purchase and resale of land. Each
local commission is composed of five tenants, three landowners, and two
owner-cultivators, who were originally elected to serve for a two-year term.
Elections were held during December of 1946. In only 52 percent of the cases,
among the 10,777 local commissions, was it necessary to hold elections,
since, in the other cases, the number of candidates equalled the number of
positions to be filled.1 The lists of the electors were open to public in-
spection. Persons eligible to vote in the elections were those who were
at least 20 years of age and members of households cultivating one tan or
more of land in Japan proper and three tan in Hokkaido. It is assumed in
this analysis that many of the respondents who said that they had voted in
the elections actually meant that they participated in the selection of a
buraku nominee. 2
A large majority of the respondents stated that they had voted in the
land commission elections. Nearly two-thirds of them thought that their
local commission members were the best people for the job, although one-fifth
1. In the majority of those villages in which commissions were seated by
proclamation, nominees were selected by domocratic means in each of tho
buraku of the village. In accordanco with Japanese law, whenever the num-
ber of nominees equalled the number of positions open, no olections were
held, and the mayor simply soated the candidates by proclamation.
2. On the basis of the results of field investigations conducted from
6-15 January 1947, Occupation authorities beliove that from 75-80 percent
of the land commissions were accopted as satisfactory by their constituents,
and t at in the majority of cases in wlich no cloctions had boon held the
selection of candidatos had been accomplished according to democratic pro-
cedures. However, a few instances have been discovered in which there was
ovidenco of voting controlled by vosted community interosts. The Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry took immediate steps to inform farmors of their
rights under tho law to recall commissioners who did not represent thon.
As a consoquonce, recall elections wore held in many villages.
22

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLEMS
thought that while the mombers were good, there wore others who were just
good. A higher porcentage of tenants than landlords oxpressed confidenge
tho land commissions.
Question: Did you vote in the land commission elections?
A1l
respondents
Yos
80%
No
20
100%
n = 1,257
Question: Do you think the members of tie land commission in your village
are the best persons for t'he job?
By tenure status
All
Owner-
Land-
respondents
Tenants eultivators
lords
Best
61%
64%
59%
46%
Good, but there are
other good men
22
19
24
35
Not the best
6
6
6
3
Don't know
11
11
11
16
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,284
n = 598
n = 593
n = 93
One of the most important duties of the land commission was to deter-
nine which individuals in the village were eligible to buy land that had
been bought from owmers by the Government. Land reform legislation stipu-
lates certain criteria of eligibility. In general, all porsons who were
"likely to devote themselves to agriculture," and who had domonstrated
reasonable proficiency in farming were eligiblo to purchase land, with
priority being given to those persons who on 23 Novomber 1945 wero tonants
on the land they wished to buy. However, within the limits of these criteria,
many decisions, concerning both the policy for the ontiro village and the
polioy to be applied to individuals, had to be made, and in most cases it
was the local land commission that made then.
A majority of the respondents thought that the method used to determine
individual eligibility had been appropriate. A higher percentage of owner-
cultivators -- the group least affected and most likoly to have an objective
point of view -- than of other groups expressed this feeling. People who
RFSTRICTED

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
24
SURVEY SERIES
felt that the land reform program had been beneficial to their family were alep
the most satisfied; only nine percent of them thought that the method hadb
inappropriate, while 26 percent of those who felt that the land reform had
been beneficial to their family disapproved of the method used to determino
eligibility. The large percentage of the people who felt that their family
had been benefited by the land reform, and who also thought that the method of
determining individual eligibility was appropriate, probably reflects the fact
that the majority of those benefited were tenants, who were for the most part
automatically eligible. The fact that one-half of the landlords (and nearly
one-half of all farmers who felt that land reform had not been beneficial to
their family) also thought the mothod was appropriate suggosts that landlords,
while objecting to the ontire program, can bo somowhat objective about the pro-
gram's methods. A higher percentago of the heads of farm households (exclusive
of those in Ebetsu, Hokkaido) who, at tho timo the survey was made, cultivated
from 1.5l-5 tan per family member, approved than did those who cultivated loss
land per family member. A disproportionatoly high porcontage of the peoplo who
cultivatod loss than one tan of land por family momber replied that they did not
know whothor or not tho mothod of determining oligibility was appropriate.
Quostion: Do you think that the method of determining who was oligiblo to pur-
chase land in tho village was appropriate?
By tonuro status
All
Owmer-
Land-
rospondents
Tonants
cultivators
lords
Yos
60%
53%
61%
50%
No
13
18
13
12
Don't know
27
29
26
38
100%
100%
100%
100%
=1,268
n = 594
n = 581
n = 93
These percontages
Of those who felt that the
felt (concerning
land reform program had:
the mothod of de-
Not boen
tormining eligi-
All
Been bono-
benoficial Mado no
bility to purchase
respon-
ficial to
to their
dif-
land) that:
dents
their family
familyforonce
It was appropriate
60%
75%
48%
52%
It was not appro-
priate
13
9
26
13
They didn't know
27
16
26
35
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 268
n =616
n = 167
n = 365
RESTRICTE

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLENS
Of those farmers who oulti
this amount of land per family
These percentages
ber at the time of the sum
felt (concerning
the method of de-
termining eligi-
A11
bility to purchase
respon-
land) that:
dents
0-1 tan 1.1-1.5 tan 1.51-5.0 tan
It was appropriate
60%
51%
59%
66%
It was not appro-
priate
13
12
16
13
They didn't know
27
37
25
21
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 268
n = 411
n = 311
n. = 449
* Exclusive of Ebetsu, Hokkaido.
A majority of the respondents stated without qualification that they
thought that those villagers who had bought land during the program were
satisfied with the handling of their cases by the land commission, one-third
thought that some might not be satisfied, and only three percent stated
definitely that they thought tie purchasers were not satisfied. A higher
percentage of tenants, most of whom bought land themselves and thus might
be in a better position to speak for all those who bought land, gave an un-
qualified answer expressing satisfaction than did other groups. Those
farmers who indicated satisfaction with the benefits of the land reform pro-
gram to their family also expressed the greatest satisfaction with the
handling of the cases of others by the land commission.
Question: Do you think that those who bought land under the provisions of
the land reform law are satisfied with the handling of their case by the
land commission or not?
By tenure status
A11
Owmer-
Land-
respondents
Tenants
cultivators lords
Satisfied
53%
60%
48%
41%
Some are satisfied,
some are not
33
29
36
41
Unsatisfied
3
2
4
2
Don't know
11
12
16
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,261
n = 583.
n = 585 n = 93
RESTRICTED

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
SURVEY SERIES
Theso porcontages
Of those who felt that the
felt (concerning the
land roform program had:
satisfaction of others
Nct been
with the handling of
A11
Boen bene-
beneficial
Made no dif-
their case by the
respon-
ficial to
to their
ference to
land commission) thats dents
their family
family
their family
They are satisfied
53%
66%
45%
45%
Some are satisfied,
some aro not
33
27
42
38
They are unsatified
3
3
4
3
They didn't know
whether or not they
are satisfiod
11
9
24
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,261
n = 616
n = 167
n = 365
Similar porcentages of farmers exprossod porsonal satisfaction with the
way the land commission handled their own case. Among landlords, those who
said they wore personally satisfied were fewor in number than those who
thought that poople in genoral had bought land were satisfied -- not aur-
prising, as few of this group bought land, and many of them were forced to
sell it.
Question: (For farmors who bought or sold land under the provisions of the
land reforn law) Were you personally satisfied with tho way that the land
commission handled your case?
By tonuro status
A1l
Owner-
Land-
rospondonts
Tenants
oultivators
lords
Satisfied
52%
61%
46%
30%
Neither satisfied
nor dissatisfied
30
26
36
40
Unsatisfied
13
10
13
26
Don't. know
5
3
5
4
100%
100%
100%
100%
n =1,143
n = 568
n = 497
n = 78
RESTRICTED

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLEMS
Land reform legislation provides that the prico of land shall henoe
forth be dotermined by the land commissions, acting in accordance with prin
ciples established by law, rather than by negotiations between the conoerned
parties. This was one of tne issues which had caused the failure of all
previous land reform programs in Japan, for without price controls, a majority
of the tenants wero unable to purchase land. Furthermore, the prosent land
reform legislation stipulated that, in ordor to prevent speculation with
land purchased from the Govornmont, land could not be rosold privately, but
that all rosales would be made diroctly to tho Governmont on terms similar.
to those characterizing the original sale contract.
A majority of all farmers, and a majority of all tonure groups excopt
landlords, favored the principle of prico controls administerod by tho local
land commissions. However, one-fifth of all farmers and one-fourth of the
landlords and owner-cultivators, thought that the determination of price
should be made according to the circumstances. Nearly one-third of the land-
lords favorod negotiation.
Question: Which do you think is better: to have the price of land fixed
by the land commission, or to have the price fixed by negotiation between
the parties concerned?
By tenure status
A11
Owner
Land-
respondents
Tenants cultivators
lords
Land commission
61%
74%
52%
32%
It depends upon
the eircumstances
20
15
25
24
Negotiation
11
4
14
30
Doesn't matter
6
4
7
11
Don't know
2
3
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,283
n = 598
n = 592
n = 93
Several provisions of land reform legislation protected the tenant by
guaranteeing him security of tenure. This factor had been tne cause of near-
ly one-half of prewar tenant-landlord disputes, and the lack of security of
tenure had been one of the greatest ovils of the tonancy system. Many
tenant cvictions were caused by the failure of tonants to pay the rent that
they had agreed to pay in tneir contracts. However, under a provision of
land reform legislation, all disputes arising out of any delay in paymont
of ront by the tenant for good cause must be settled by the land commission,
rather than by consultation betweon the concerned partios.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTEL
28
SURVEY SERIES
A plurality of all the respondents favored the settlement of such
questions by the land comnission only in some cases; a plurality of the
tenants favored settlement by tie land commission in all cases; and less
than 10 percent of the tenants preferred consultation. In general, tenants
favored settlement by the land commission and landlords settlement by con-
sultation, with owner-cultivators occupying a midway position.
Question:  In the event of delay in payment of rent by the tenant for good
cause, do you think te question should be settled by the land commission,
or do you think it should be settled by consultation between landlord and
tenant only?
By tenure status
All
Owner-
Land-
respondents
Tenants
cultivators
lorde
Land commission
38%
46%
34%
22%
In some circumstanoes.
by the land commission
40
39
40
39.
Consultation between the
concerned parties
14
8
16
32
Doesn't matter
6
5
8
6
Don't know
2
2
1
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,278
n = 595
n = 590
n = 93
RESTRICTED

=== Page 314 === (confidence 1.00)
RESTRICTED
Chapter VI
ATTITUJES TOWARD THE VILLAGE AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES
Prior to the Occupation, monopoly agricultural associations, organized
in 1943, served as the instrumentality through which agricultural prices
and production were controlled, crop collections and rationing accomplished,
and rural capital utilized in accordance with national.policy. One local
agriucltural association (Nogyokai) was established in each city, town, and
village in Japan. These local associations were members of the national
association. The entire system was under the direct control of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry. Membership in local associations was compulsory
for individual farmers.
Legislation authorizing the formation of agricultural cooperatives was
enacted by the Diet in 1947. The goals of the legislation were to release
farmers from the domination of non-agrarian interests and to afford them
the opportunity to organize independent cooperatives. Under the provisions
of the legislation, 15 or more farmers may organize a cooperative, any num-
ber of cooperatives may be formed in one village, farmers may belong to
more than one cooperative, and each member farmer is entitled to one vote in
his cooperative. Cooperatives may perform banking, marketing, purchasing,
mutual relief, and other services to farmers. In addition, the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry has urged cooperatives to perform educational and
recreational functions, and has stressed the fact that if the cooperatives
are to be truly democratic the women of the community should be afforded full
opportunity to participate in the activities. Some of the new cooperatives
had been in operation for as long as five months at the time the survey was
made, and the agricultural associations were all dissolved by 14 August 1948.
Since their dissolution, the agricultural associations have been engaged
in terminating their affairs.
In order to determine the extent to which farmers have direct contact
with a cooperative, respondents were asked if they visited their cooperative
often. About two-thirds reported that they did, and only three percent
stated that they never visit the cooperative. Post-land reform landlords
reported the least frequent regular visits to the cooperative. Pre-land
reform tenants and owmer-cultivators, and post-land reform owner-cultivators,
reported the most frequent regular visits. Only a small percentage of these
groups, in contrast to 13 percent of the post-land reform landlords, reported
that they never visit the cooperative.
29
RESTRICTED

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
30
SURVEY SERTES
Question:
Do: you often go to. your yillage cooperative?
By tenure. status
Pre-land reform status Post-land reform statua
A11
Owner-
Owner-
respon-
oulti-Land-
culti- Land-
dents
Tenants vators lords Tenants
vators lorde
Yes, often
62%
64%
64%
46%
49%
65%
33%
No, not often
35
34
34
42
49
33
54
Never
3
2
2
12
2
2
13
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,281 n.= 596 n = 592 n = 93 n = 113 n = 1,116.n = 52
In contradistinction to the old local agricultural associations, the
nonaffiliated village cooperatives are largely under t e direction of their
elected leadership, and the extent to which the members have confidence in
the leaderslip of their cooperative should serve as a useful index of tleir
general attitudes toward the cooperatives. A majority of the respondents
'expressed quslified confidence in their present officials, and over one-
.quarter of them expressed full confidence. All tenure groups expressed
very similar attitudes.
Question: Do you have confidence in the present officials of your coopera-
tive?
All
respondents
Complete confidencé
28%
Some confidence
55
Little confidence
14
No confidence
3
100%
n = 1,270
About one-third of all the respondents (most of whom were men) ex-
pressed a favorable attitude toward the inclusion of women among the offi-
cials of the agricultural cooperatives, while a plurality stated that it
would make no difference. Only 13 percent thought that women officials
would definitely not be beneficial. This seeming acceptance of women may
be a superficial and theoretical attitude, as in not one village surveyed
RESTRICTED

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTEU
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLEMS
had a woman actually been made an official of a cooporative, and
respondents may have answered the question on tho busis of their attitude
toward the general participation of women in commum ty. activities.
Question: Do you think it would be beneficial to your cooperative to in-
clude women among the officials?
A11
respondents
Benoficial
3.4%
Not benefioial
13
Makos no difference
43
Don't know
10
100%
n = 1,278
RESTRICTED

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Chapter VII
ATTITUDES TOWARD T E INHERITANCE OF LAND
Traditionally, land has been inhorited in Japan chiefly by primogopi-
ture. Furthermore, the position of tho head of ti:e household was also
passed on by succession -- not always to tho same person who inherited the
land. These inhoritanco patterns wero mattors of practico, and had as
logal sanotions provisions in the Civil Code. Howevor, Japan's amondod
Civil Code provides that all children and rolatives shall havo the right
to sharo in t'ie inhoritanco, including land.I Tho pattem of succession
through heads of households was climinated completely in this now codo.
Many will agrec that these provisions aid in tie growth of tho individual,
and will permit young peoplo to develop a groator degreo of solf-direction,
but it is also widely recognizod thet in Japan thoy prosont a complicated
oconomic problom. Most farm holdings in Japan are too small to bo sub-
divided and continuo to provide subsistenco to a family, and it has only
been tho migration of younger sons into the cities and their conscription
into the arny that has enabled Japan's farm communitios to maintain some
semblance of belanco betwoon land rosources and population. The attitudos
and behavior of the individual farmer will ultimately decido the extent to
which these provisions of the Civil Codo are put into practice.
Respondonts wero first asked tho form of inheritanco practiced tra-
ditionally in their family. Over t ree-querters of tho heads of housoholds
whoso families had previously possessod land reported that primogeniture
had been the custom in their family in the past, and only four percent ro-
ported that tho land has boen oqually divided among all sons.
Question: (To thoso farmers whose families had proviously possessed land)
Up to now, how has land boon inhorited in your family?
To (Idest son only
78%
To all sons, but different
amounts according to ago
13
Dividod oqually among all sons
4
Other arrangoments than the above
5
100%
n = 973
1. Law No. 222 concerning tho partial amendments of tho Civil Code. Pro-
mulgated 22 Docomber 1947.
32
RESTRICIND

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLEMS
Respondents were then presented with a hypothetical situation in which
they had two sons and one daughter, and could act as they pleased. Only 16
percent stated simply that they would give their land to the eldest mon.
Significantly, almost half of the farmers wished to give the land to the
son who would become a farmer, regardless of his sibling order, and 27 per-
cent preferred one or another system of mulitple inheritance.1
Question: Let us assume that you have two sons and one daughter and may
act as you please: to whom would you give your l??
All
respondents
To.the eldest son only
16%
To the son who will become a farmer
47
Equally to all sons, none to the daughter
5
To all sons, but different amounts according to age
69
To all children, but different amounts according to age
Equally to all children
7
Other arrangements than the above
2
Don't know
8
100%
n = 1,285
An important element of the Japanese family system is its emphasis
upon mutual obligations and responsibilities for the welfare of the mem-
bers. A more successful member of a family is obligated to give aid to
less successful members. This applies particularly to the oldest son, if
ho is the son who has inherited the land. Along with the land, he inherits
tho rosponsibility for the care of his paronts, and for other members of
his close family as well, if they should need aid. When asked if thoy
thought the eldest son should be excused from porforming these traditional
dutios if the land wore divided equally, rospondonts of all tenure groups
expressed divided opinion.
1. Students of Japanese rural society have known for some time that there
has been some deviation from the primogeniture pattern, in particular, that
a son other than the eldost is ofton solectod to inhorit the land. The
plurality of the "to tho son who will become a farmer" rosponse, therefore,
would seem to reflect an existing custom. It may bo spoculated that the
rolatively high porcentage of tho combinod "equally to all" rosponses might
have been caused either by a knowledge of the Civil Codo or by a general
senso of "justice" which the oconomic realitios or rural lifo mako im-
possible of fulfillmont.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
SURVEY SERIES
Question: In tho event that tho land is divided oqually, do you think that
the eldest son should be excused from porforming his traditional dutiem to
the family?
A11
respondents
Yes
40%
No
50
Don't know
10
100%
n = 1,282
Any discussion of the traditional inhoritance systom must recognize its
economic base. The small sizo of most Japanoso farms precludes much sub-
division of the land, and it is not surprising to find tat two-thirds of
tho respondents felt that if tho land were given equally to all sons and
daughtors the family would bo unablo to got along. This is almost exactly
the same purcentage as of thoso who wished to transmit the land only to the
son who would become a farmer or to the oldost son. Sixteen percent of all
the respondents thought that this equal inheritance would improve the future
of the children, a percentage somewhat smaller than the combined porcentages
of the rosponlents who would prefer to divido tho land to some degree among
all childron.
Question: What do you think would happen if, in accordance with the now
inheritance systom, all tho sons and daughters wore given land equally?
All
rospondonts
Family would bo unablo to get along
67%
Futuro of chilaren would improvo
16
Would not affect tho family or tho children
6
Other answors than the above
1
Don't know
10
100%
n = 1,282
RESTRICTED

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.99)
BESTRICTED
Chapter VIII
USE OF INFORMATION MEDIA
Many of the farmers in rural villages livo in what would soem to be
rather isolated surroundings. Nevertheless, their need for information con-
cerning political matters.(in particular, egricultural legislation and
olection information), rationing and marketing matters, and agrioultural
techniques is great. Two of the most common sources of this information are,
of course, the newspapor and tho radio.
A large majority of the rospondents reported that thoy tako a newspaper.
A slightly higher percentage of landlords than of tenants or owmer-cultivators
subscribe. A majority of all subscriptions aro for a national paper rathor
than for a local or rogional nowspaper, but a highor percontago of the sub-
scriptions roported by tonants end ownor-cultivators (compared to those re-
ported by landlords) are for a local or regional nowspaper. As might be ex-
pected, the most isolated villages had t'ie lowost peroentagos of nowspaper
subscribers.
Question: Do you take a newspeper?
By tonure status
A11
Ownor-
rospondents
Tenants
cultivators
Landlords
Yos
84%
83%
84%
96%
No
16
17
16
4
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,276
n = 593
n = 591
n = 92
35
RESTRICTED

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
36
SURVEY SERIES
By village
Rank order
Yes
No
Honami
99%
1%
Obie
96
4
Nikaido
94
6
Kawashiro
92
8
Nobuta
88
12
Yokogoshi
88
12
Ebetsu
88
12
Yoshida
88
12
Aioi
84
16
Futomi
83
17
Karako
81
19
Mizuwake
65
35
Suye
46
54
n = 95-100
Question: (To those who replied "yes")
What newspaper do you take?
By tenure status
Owner-
Land-
Total
Tenants
cultivators
lords
Local or district newspapers
48%*
56%
43%
33%
Mainichi**
22
16
27
29
Asahi***
18
19
17
24
Yomiuri****
8
6
10
9
Jiji Shimpo*****
2
2
1
1
Nippon Keizai******
2
1
2
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,132 n = 510
n = 519
n = 103
* Expressed as percentages of total newspaper subscriptions.
** The Mainichi has three editions with a combined circulation of
3,503,575 copies per day.
*** The Asahi has the largest circulation of any daily newspaper in
Japan. Its three editions have a combined circulation of 3,625,128
copies per day.
**** The Yomiuri is the largest Tokyo daily newspaper; its circulation
per day is 1,775,441.
***** The Jiji Shimpo is published in Tokyo, and has a circulation of
217,700 copies per day.
****** The Nippon Keizai, a general nowspaper which stresses econcmic
news, is published in Tokyo and has a circulation of 434,724 oopies
per day.
(All figures for December 1948)
RESTRICTED

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLE
A large majority of the respondents wore satisfied with their p
newspapor, and only 12 porcent wanted to change. Thirty-two poroont
those wanting to change selocted a local or a regional nowspaper, 31
tho Asahi, and 25 percent the Mainichi.
Question: (To those who take a newspaper) Do you want to chango your
nowspaper?
Yos
12%
No
83
Unoertain
5
100%
n = 1,047
Quostion:
(To those who said "yes") To what n ewspapor do you want to.
change?1
Local or district
32%
nowspapers
Asahi
31
Mainichi
25
Yomiuri
10
Nippon Koizai
2
100%
n = 120
1. In a survey conductod by the Jiji Pr ss in Septomber 1947, 41,000 hoads
of households throughout J:  were pollod concorning newspaper proforences.
The rosults wore very similar to those obtainod from tho presont survoy.
Question: If you could subscribe to only one newspapor, what newspaper
would that be?
All respondents
Asahi
31%
Mainichi
23
Yomiuri
9
Nippon Keizai
2
Others (ncluding local and
district newspapors)
35
100%
n = 41,000

=== Page 323 === (confidence 1.00)
RESTRICTED
SURVEY SERIES
A majority of the respondents reported that t hey own radios. Aa com-
pared with tho findings of last year's survey, reported radio ownorship ha
gone up. While thore are some extreme differences among the villages
visited -- Suye has only 27 percent radio ownership and Nikaido has 84 per
cent -- the average rate of ownership has risen noticeably.
Reported radio ownership in farm
households in 13 rural villages
May-June 1947
This survey
Own
59%
64%*
Do not own or
no response
41
36
100%
100%
* The radio ownership rate seems to be. substan-
tially above that of the country as a whole.
However, no recent figures are available for
comparison which reflect the enormous increase
in ownership that has occurred since March 1947,
the date of the last complete census by the
Broadcasting Corporation of Japan.
Radio ownership by village
Rank order
May-June 1947*
This survey
Nikaido
90%
84%
Obie
80
79
Ebetsu
**
76
Karako
55
73
Mizuwake
48
70
Kawashiro
70
68
Nobuta
70
67
Yokogoshi
34
67
Honami
30
65
Futomi
***
64
Yoshida
35
45
Aioi
23
43
Suye
26
27
* These figures are only approximate, and were
not taken in all cases from the results of a
questionnaire. This probably explains any de-
cline in ownership rate here noted, as there
is no evidence other than this that there has
been any actual decline.
** No information available.
*** No survey conducted in May-June 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
ATTITUDES OF FARMERS TOWARD RURAL PROBLEMS
Radio ownership shows some relation to economic factors. A small
percentage of tenants own radios tan do owner-cultivators and landloi
A higher percentage of those farmers who cultivate more than 15 tan of
per family momber owm radios than do those who cultivate less land.
Question: Do you have a radio in your home?
By tenure status
A11
Owner-
respondents
Tenants
cultivators
Landlords
Own
64%
56%
71%
79%
Do not own or
no response
36
4
29
21
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,286
n = 599
n = 594
n = 93
Of those farmers who oultivated
this amount of land per family
These
All
member at the time of the survey*
percentages
respondents
0-1 tan
1.1-1.5 tan
1.51-5.0 tan
Own radios
64%
58%
60%
72%
Do not own radios
or did not respond
36
42
40
28
100%
100%
100%
100%
n = 1,286
n = 410
n = 313
n = 450
* Exclusive of Ebetsu, Hokkaido
Two of the many radio programs that contain information of interest to
the farmer are the "Early Bird" and the "New Farm Village" programs. Broad-
cast in the morning and in the evening respectively, these programs are
heard to some extent by over half of the farm households, including some
1
listeners who do not have radios, but who hear the programs on the radios
of others. The "New Farm Village" program is somewhat more popular.
However, the "Early Bird" program was described as "interesting" by its
listeners more frequently than was the "New Farm Village" program.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
SURVEY SERIES
Aont Do you listen to the "Early Bird" program?
All respondents
Yes, regularly
14%
Yes, sometimes
43
No, never
43
100%
n = 1,117
Question: Do you listen to the "New Farm Village" program?
All respondents
Yes, regularly
17%
Yes, sometimes
52
No, never
31
100%
n = 1,114
Question: (To those wno listen to it) What do you think of the "Early
Bird" program?
All respondents
Interesting
77%
Uninteresting
14
Uncertain
9
100%
n = 618
Question: (To those who listen to it) What do you think of the "New Farm
Village" program?
All respondents
Interesting
70%
Uninteresting
15
Uneertain
15
100%
n = 716
RESTRICTED

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
R E S T R I C. T-E'D
SURVEY SERIES
Surveys conduoted to date by this Division or by this
Division in vooperation with other organizations
Some Aspects of the Fishery Right System in Seleoted
Japanese Fishing Communities
November 1948
Reactions to a Traffic Safety Week Leaflet
22 January 1949
31 January 194
Attitudes Toward the Labor Movement
Problems of Working Women in Tokyo
26 March 1949
Attitudes of Farmers Toward Rural Problems
20 May 1949
R E S T R I C T E D
RESTRICTED

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.91)
AIRGRAM
ACTION: DC/L
INPO
DC/R
USPOLA); 
FROU:
FE
ITP
no 11,14
Dated:
CFD
P
Date of
POS
UNCLASSIFIED
mailing
June 21, 1949
PA
OLI
Rec'd:
June 24, 1949 9:20
CIA
AAN
Secretary of ato.
nachi u ton
A-155, une 18, 1949
Pollow og ie test c SOap press release of June 9. 194e, brud-
Lined "Land Rotorn Program in Jepan":
Abolit lon of the pernicious land texure syst n which ha lose
blighted Japanese agriculture and impeired developmont of  peuosful
national cconcsy has been a basic objective of the Occupatic Apon
.plishment of this cojactivo is cesertlal ve the econonie and po?   eul
we?l-beiag of Japtan.
Having an area or 142, 270 square miles, Jepen is smaller  n the
state or. Californie. Only l6 pereant or the totel ares is a .
Approximasely 47 pércent of the total population of about  o o
depends on egriculture for all or part of its income. Befora s
surrencer, about 70 percent of the farmere pented all cr perb  ms
land they cultivated. Only nine percent or fann bouseholde a d
more than .9 acres of land, and 67 percent culti wated lese L
2.4 acres
This overarowding nad led to a ighly Ineguitable Jatd sei
systéa with rents. ranging fran 5070 percent of he annual 
FILID
duruiredade preceding orld ar I, coneciusly snd 
newethddr and prosperity to re won through aggressive war
was thwarted by defeat and surrender, Tae tenant alaas in coc alic

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.88)
Tokyo's .-155,
June 18, 1949
-- 2 -
Jupun, vith denunds for relief from their intolerable situation still
fore st in their minds, remained a fertile field for any other ex-
tret l:t icsology pramising a solution to their problems.
The ul iretion of this malignancy wa reccgnized as vital to the
pronoticn cf pa)imum production of staple fcode and requisite social
nd e) o ole stability. On Dec. 9. 1945, the Suprame Commender for
the ll ed 'orers issued a directivre to the Japanese Governrent "to
take nat st ss tu usure that shose who till the soil of Japap shall
 o.  l opportunity to onjoy the fruits or their Iabor".
  u: cofemr is based on legisletion enacted by he Diet
u( Oc. 2l  46. t has to main objectives: (1) tran
T prceruaip so lsriers wo actually till the soil, und (2)
  aan tesacy practi es for those who continus es
n oy bas emphasized private rather than stes, and
Ind:.. utler then cpilecttve, owuership of the land.
 rc  sucn vllage is administered by e local apricul-
  comiss.on alee d ty cnd fron the farmers. Th atio of
nt. culsivato, and ers on each commission in established
t  und 3 reapectively  Each category slects it on
re pt to tre cosr iesior.Elected prerectural egricultural
  c mi I ns ccordinate and suy orvise the work of local commissions
de errel supervisioc of trs Central gricultural Led Com-
se (e oul of whiah vhe Minister of griculture and Forestry
 srit (tal lands eu ject to purchane tave beer: (1) Iu ds owned
acses  ulods; (s) tenant-opereted lends in excess c? speciried
e n t: 3) per operalec lands in excess o reter tion rates
ied y , sreet those sut car be reasonably operated b the
trmer vno is mtediase fanily; (s) corpcration-owned land: t hat do
moo rel t i rectiv to the principal objective of the corpor ation; and
(4) iunje ppatle of reclanation for agricultural use.
/ Virtual coupletior of the cultivated land transfer phcse of
ts je tr hes reauced the suitivated area under tenant opera-
ticn to  oroximately ls percent of the total. It is antioipated.
as a corseguelce, that legislction governing the composltion of
uhe sac commlssions vill be so mcdifisd as to vest a majority
wath c vner cultivatlons ond belance the rute of tenant vith that
c on r 1teret.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.73)
Tcxyo's A-155,
Tuno 16, 2.949
- 3-
Levin su ject to transfer have been purchased by the govermemt
(. o  tuo pency of the land commission) for resale to oligible
. Fena: or the ecd s of Nov. 23, 1945, other tonante, and
 sons to vish to culuivate the land have had priority to
1
ro u r l asteb ished by Jaw, is subjeet to
 lnics  tee daserstion of she land com ission.
6 1 000 yen benes bearing 3.6r per
∴1
Jbl   anul intln. mon
:2
  on is aia n cash. Tenunts day pay rr ell
h jan. s t sme  purehese und the romsinc in 24
pern
t e, pi otcer excensee cotnolder with
 e ne-ld csh rerno
 se o crp fat uto er lor fm rices,
    the pr may  b ld or
ri tver sotan ped
ove Pe pehes esr
 odurer
 londs raek t e soven en  
 contrt.l  Jn ns
1
s e et
rpatd land by re 2 1949tch
il o virtuaily complets by Jane S, he
  wl h e 
() 
m 
vn f  5314 o hd  sl
nat s  coesf pestors and siting rchase.
 oo s n h wll be so d arey te uiti
e Bo s. Is adition to cuitivated lannd
: nes s Rand ave been soquieod Sor per l mation
J1
 t of  lora progrem for ssng
   . th moun l0.l res
u uud sol s l divicele or sold to jndividusl for
9

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.78)
!okyo'e A-155.
June 18, 1949
-4-
although the lano retorm progras is dedicated primarily to
ccusiny ovner-fursers, tot il climinitlon of farr tenancy ls not
msicered easible. a amall reservoir of land subject to texenoy
 coun idereu es sntial to a progran of maxirum fond procuction.
lexibility in the land tenure pa'tern pust be preserved to event
ithdru val or land tron culvivstion in cases where the onner e
us semporurlly urable to cultivate for hireelf, or where 
cot top nue lene is valuole.
ls  o thereloe slso ineluces pre visiero
 air na y pae ices for those who renain as tenanes
in  ooions () vrittn fe
ts   1rip el unts clearly stated; (s) cash p ment
ri ( cel ir  pereent of the production fron  y and
cen colan fel1 and (4) rent contrue concell 1on
Je o p l y the lund conmssien.
ole
   ro u y soants an land orss 
1la€
e lc c concis nas been widely lstriute
  st  ae Jepeaese governmens of drir ster.
co as  939, 547, 750 yen for he ror1ot
11 145.of 1 munt 4.874 925,095 y
th1. 3ne local land comssione.
ait Tey and crodis for ths succees er this
r of ble to about 50, o00. 0opoivioulp1s
11
 tots louel le counnssions. The averecost
 ao vil toa ana commiseien hu beee p exi
 songute u an sastuod rato of soo ron to l)
 pr. ptambr 1943-Jumury 31. 1948. r abott 50
13
HOSTON
02/202
doutcenetie cer, Jrpt

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.92)
OUT
DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS CHARGED
(Subject, file number or title, type of document, and date,
OFFICE AND PERSON
DATE OF CHARGE AND
security classification, number of items, etc.)
TO WHOM CHARGED
BY WHOM CHARGED
861.24/1796
H0
Recd
8-4-58
1798
44,01.23
Deuchs
1-30-70
8-2944#7053
Povell
8-24
2-2-70
1945
CS
8909.91211
Mepher
9-12-75
CS
10/25/75
el.  2005
1147
2/10175
8105.01945-49
Edelman
7/21/26
lab
8-2946
Unterbeger
10/1/6
Boxos
359
457
miller
2/10/78
NNDA
Jab
A-126
7-3049
Kotoki
2/24/78
DS-1088 (3-2-54)
USE OTHER SIDE-CANCEL CHARGE OUT WHEN FILES RETURNED
10—70000-1 000

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.89)
OUT
DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS CHARGED
OFFICE AND PERSON
DATE OF CHARGE AND
(Subject, file number or title, type of document, and date,
TO WHOM CHARGED
BY WHOM CHARGED
security classification, number of items, etc.)
HD
867.00/5-19-47
FEB 9 1957
Agn-199-Ankara
Lambert
)-179
(a
1738
de yone
1.267
2/19/70
224
Jane s
5/16/75
2
6/25
avceti
Stenlis 11-24-75
3-1146
141601.75
37948
Hoabach
o4
Hoff
2-254
Rokan
￥533
8S
10/14/76
Green
7-246
DS-1033 (3-2-64)
USE OTHER SIDE-CANCEL CHARGE OUT WHEN FILES RETURNED
10—70090-1 GPO

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.96)
FORM DS-323
7-18-46
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
UNCLASSIFIED
NO.
Washington,
3147
3T47
USPOLAD,
TOKYO.
A-126, Ju1y 30, 1949
The Department desires the following information from Natural
Resources Section SCAP in respect to amendments to Agricultural Land
Adjustment Law passed by Diet on May 23, 1949: Official interpre-
tation of Article 15-2 (as amended) dealing with membership on
land commissions including the catagories (1, 2, or 3) in which the
894.52/7-3049
following groups belong: Landowners (non-cultivating); landowner-
cultivators (cultivating part of their land and leasing out part);
landowner-cultivators (cultivating all their land); part-uwmers -
part-tenants (landowners who also rent land); full tenants
(cultivators owning no land). Will other amendments passed to ALAL
tend to increase land rentals and land tenancy?
Acieson
ACHESON
5
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
CS/J
894.52
CR
JUL 20 1949P M
尤D
Cleared w/
/7-3049
CR CLEARANCE
OLI:IAD:KOrton:bf
7-28-49
DRF
FE
Mr. Lydman

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.91)
The Seoretary of State presents his complimemte
to His Exoellency the Ambassador of Venezuela and
has the honor to aoknowledge with thanks hie note
of August 31, l949, concerning agrioultural lands
xR
in Japan owned by Japanese residents abroad.
The information contained in the Ambassador's
894.5200
note is being forwarded to the Japanese Government
894.52/8-3149
through the offices of the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powere.
5
up
SEP 14 1949
)2
Jil
Department of State,
894.52/8-3149
Wash1ngton,Septomber 14149.
894.52/8-3149
us.
FE:NA:MGreen:olh
ARA
9/12/49
VC:
CS/H

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.94)
GDIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
S-1949
EMBAJADA DEVENEZUELA
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 1853
Acnoldent Vene, Eb,
POLAD, TOkYO giren copy 7
The Ambassador of Venezuela presents his compli
ments to His Excellency the Secretary of State and has
0C/R
the honor to refer to the Department's note of April 7,
1949, which concerns a request made by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan, acting on be-
half of the Japanese Government, to inquire as to the
agricultural lands in Japan owned by Japanese residents
abroad.
In reply, the Government of Venezuela states that
the followin are the only two Japanese residents in Venp-
949
894.52/8-3149
zuela who own land in Japan:
1) NAIATA TUMORO SHIGEO.- AddreSs: AVenida
Mirador, La Campiña, Parroquia El Recreo, Caracas.Informs
that he owns a lot in his country; that it is so small its
value will not even be loo bolivares and that therefore,
his Government may dispose of same.
2) YONEKURA YUZO.- Address: Edificio La Marrón,
Esquina de La Marrón, Pri er Piso, Caracas. Informs that
an
he owms properties in his country (Japan), covering approxi-
mately 7,2o0 meters, and that said properties are leased.
The location is as follows: Department: YamanschiKen;
E
Province: Higashiyamanashigun; City: Yamanashi-Mua
FILED
0194
Shiyotoluji.
894.52
 The Ambassador of Venezuela avails himself f this
10
opportunity to renew to His Excellency the assurances of his
bighest consideration.
Washington, D. C., August 31st, 1949.
2
CS/H
Cuit
ODH
Anel
LJG/1dev.
193455
Ces.

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM
FILE NO.
894.52/9-149
RECORD COPY
DESP.
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH TELEGRAM AIRGRAM
EO4 FRUM TOKYO
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
7
M-184
11-9-48

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.98)
DC/R
CONTROL COPY
THE POREION SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
SEP 131949
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
for Japan
REC'D
Tokyo, September 1, 1949.
SEP 5
ACTION
No. 604
OLI
INFO
UNCLASSIFIED
FR
DCR
FE
ITP
Subject: Amendments to Japanese Agricultural Land Adjustment Law.
L
AGRI
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to the
Department's airgram instruction no. 126 of July 30, 1949, requesting
certain information on amendments to the Agricultural Land Adjustment
1/
Act as passed by the Diet on May 23, 1949. Enclosed is a copy of a
leaflet prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry on the
occasion of the second General Election of Agricultural Land Commis-
sions, and quoted in full in (SCAP) Natural Resources Section Weekly
j
Summary no. 19l; the leaflet contains an official interpretation of
Article 15-2 of the recent amendments.
It will be noted that tenant farmers who lease and cultivate more
than 2 tan (5 tan in Hokkaido) of land fall in Category I (lessees),
while farmers who let out on lease more than 2 tan (again 5 tan in
Hokkaido) fall in Category II (lessors). All other farmers fall with-
in Category III. In the case of farmers who both lease and let out
on lease, the balance of the two figures determines status for pur-
poses of election to the Land Commissions; a farmer leasing 1 tan
and letting out on lease 3 tan, for instance, is deemed to fall with-
in Category II. Lessors or lessees of less than 2 tan, and non-
renting landowners, fall within Category III. (One tan equals 0.245064
acres.)
It is the opinion of the Natural Resources Section that the amend-
ments will not lead to any increase in farm tenancy. Limitations on
the transfer of ownership or lease rights to farm land remain substan-
tially as they were under the unamended law, and insure that persons
acquiring such rights intend to cultivate the land, and that land hold-
ings will not exceed the retention limits set by the Owner Farmer Estab-
1ishment Special Measures Law (Law no. 43 of 1946). Thus Article 4 of
the amended law, while retaining the provision that the permission of
the Agricultural Land Commission must be obtained for the transfer of
land rights, specifies instances in which permission may not be granted,
or may be granted only with the concurrence of the Minister of Agri-
culture and Forestry. Thus, the Natural Resources Section concludes,
there is no more likelihood of an increase of tenancy under the new
law than under the old.
The
UNCLASSIFIED
M
49

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 604,
September 1, 1949.
-2-
The recent amendments to t he Agricultural Land Adjustment Law
have no relation to the fixing of land rentals. The Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry, however, is studying the possibility of
an upward revision of rentals, within the framework of Article 9-8
of the Law, which limits rentals to 25 per cent of the value of a
normal yield in the case of paddy lands, and 15 per cent in the
case of dry fields.
The Natural Resources Section reports further that Mr. L. I.
HEWES, Jr., land reform expert in that section, will be available
for consultation in Washington from the end of September. . It is
considered possible that the Department may wish to obtain further.
clarification of the recent amendments from Mr. Hewes, who may be
reached at the Cosomos Club, Madison Place and H Street, NW,
Washington.
cut
Enclosure
1/ Copy of Natural Resources
Section Weekly Summary No. 191.
521/502
EGSeidensticker Jr.: lee
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 604,
September 1, 1949, from the Office of
the U.S. Political Adviéer for Japan,
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, on the subject "Amendments to
Japanese Agricultural Land Adjustment
Law".
(COPY)
ITEM 1 NATURAL RESOURCES SECTION WEEKLY SUMMARY NO. 191
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY INFORMATION LEAFLET ON
SECOND-GENERAL ELECTION OF AGRICULTURAL LAND COMMISSIONERS
Hello! Everybody!
All Agricultural Land Commissioners in Japan soon wdll be chosen
again in a general election for the first time since your Agricultural
Land Commissions were set up.
The voting day is August 18, 1949
The method for the forthcoming election is much different from
the last one; you will understand the difference when you read this
leaflet carefully.
Persons having voting rights are all requested to go to the pol-
ling place, calling for one another on their way.
This is an important election for you farmers.
Let us elect your true representatives as commissioners of the
Agricultural Land Commission, who handle the matters relating to the
land cultivated by you.
A new voters' list of those qualified for voting will be pre-
pared for the forthcoming election.
Have you confirmed whether your names are correctly put down in
the voters' list?
Everybody can inspect during the 5-day period starting 1 August
the voters' list at t he public office (or other designated places).
The Election Control Commission officially announces the place
and date on which you can look into the list.
When you go to find whether your names are omitted or misspelled
go directly to the Agricultural Land Commission and ask it to certify
the matter; then apply to the Election Control Commission for the re-
vision. Take care about this, for the Commission will not accept your
application if you do not apply during the period of 5 days for in-
spection.
A household cultivating more than 1 tan (in Hokkaido, more than
3 tan) or a household owning agricultural land of more than 1 tan (in
Hokkaido, more than 3 tan) has members with voting rights; persons
more than 20 years old in such households are qualified to vote and
are eligible for election.
However
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 604,
September 1, 1949.
-2-
However, persons who live in the household but are not full time
farmers (this is certified by the Agricultural Land Commission) or owm
no agricultural land, are neither qualified to vote nor eligible for
election.
In election, you farmers are divided into 3 groups and these
groups conduct the election respectively.
Be careful about the divisions, for they are quite different from
the old divisions of "Tenant farmers", "Landowners" and "Owner-farmers".
The structure of the new Agricultural Land Commission is as fol-
lows:
Representatives of the lessees (Group No. 1):
2 persons ---- Elected from among those farmers who lease
and cultivate agricultural land of more than
2 tan (in Hokkaido, 5 tan).
Representatives of the lessors (Group No. 2):
2 persons ---- Elected from among those farmers who let out
on lease their own agricultural land of more
than 2 tan (in Hokkaido, 5 tan).
Representatives of the others (Group No. 3):
6 persons ---- Elected from among those farmers not included
in the foregoing groups.
Farmers will choose by vote, from among their respective groups,
the persons who will stand for the Agricultural Land Commission.
As for farmers who lease one lot of agricultural land and let out
on lease another lot, the group to which they belong is decided by the
difference in acreage of the two lots.
Which group do you belong to?
Just look at the following instances:
(a) (A person who is an owner-cultivator of 2 cho and a lessee of
3 tan.)
---- Group No. 1 (The acreage cultivated by the owner-cultivator
does not matter, for he leases more than 2 tan.)
(b) A person who is an owner-cultivator of 3 tan and lessor of 3 tan.
---- Group No. 2 (The acreage cultivated by the owner-culti-
vator does not matter, for he lets out on lease more than 2 tan.)
(c) A person who is a lessee of 4 tan and a lessor of 1 tan.
---- Group No. 1 (He leases a balance of 3 tan.)
(d) A person who is a lessee of 4 tan and a lessor of 3 tan.
---- Group No. 3 (He leases a balance of 1 tan.)
(e) A non-cultivator land owner of 2 tan and less
(f) A full-time tenant farmer of 2 tan and less
(g) An
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 341 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 604,
September 1, 1949.
-3-
(g) An owner-cultivator of 1 cho and at the same time lessee
of 1 tan.
----- Group No. 3 (They are not included in Group No. 1
leasing more than 2 tan, nor in Group No. 2 letting out
on lease more than 2 tan.)
What sort of person do you elect as Conmissioners of the New
Agricultural and Land Commission?
Let's elect persons willing to do their best to protect your
rights, and to promote agriculture in your village and freedom for
working farm households.
Is there a person among those who stand for the Agricultural
Land Commission, who does not grasp the spirit of land reform, who
is swayed only by his interest, friendship or favoritism, who intends
to make money or take a bribe because of his position as commissioner,
and who will remain idle, making no positive efforts worthy of your
representative, even if he does nothing wrong?
If you elect such a person by mistake, you will repent it after-
ward.
Election is not other people's concern. If the person you want
to be your representative on the Agricultural Land Commission is not
already a candidate, then ask him to be a candidate immediately; he
can give notice of his candidature within a week before voting day.
The business of the future Agricultural Land Commission will be
more and more important.
Up to now the Agricultural Land Commission has been occupied in
the routine work relating largely to purchase and sale of agricultural
land, but in future the Commission will be concerned with all the pro-
blems facing you and will seek to settle them so as to attain the end
of setting farmers free from old traditions;
For example,
(1) In order to carry out fairly the transfer of agricultural
land and pasture land, purchase and sale have to be carefully executed;
to assure that these transfers are properly retained, control is given
over purchase and sale of agricultural land, its destruction and the
transfer of the right to cultivate. To this end, we must carefully pre-
pare the correct ledger and map of cultivated land.
(2) In order to modernize management, the program for consolidating
agricultural lands through exchange, partition and annexation has been
mapped out, and will be pushed forward.
(3) Control is given over the transfer of forests producting fire-
wood and charcoal, and over grassland as well as grazing land so as to
protect farmers' utilization rights; furthermore, service will be pro-
vided in maintaining these rights.
(4) When
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 604,
September 1, 1949.
-4-
(4) When disputes break out centering around utilization of
agricultural land (e.g., tenancy disputes, boundary disputes, water
utilization disputes, and cutting off trees), the Agricultural Land
Commission intervenes between the disputing parties and seeks to
bring about an impartial settlement.
(5) The Commission seeks contracts that will provide equitable
farm rent and other tenancy conditions, and seeks to protect tenant-
rights through drawing written contracts and registering them.
Besides, the Commission will deal with other important problems
about land and also will assist you in getting information.
Do you know what is meant by the word, "Recall"?
When the Commissioners of your choice do not perform their duties
properly, you will prepare an application under joint signature by one
half or more of the voters of the group to which you belong, and then
submit it to the Election Control Commission in a city, town or vil-
lage; this will bring a mass resignation of the Commissioners of the
particular group and a new election within 2 weeks.
In this way you can keep constant watch over your representatives,
and dismiss them if they are unsuitable.
This procedure is called "Recall", but no recall can be exercised
until 6 months after the election.
(Marginal notes)
Is your name on the voters' list for election of the Commis-
sioners of the Agricultural Land Commission?
---- You cannot vote if your name is not on the voterst list.
---- Let's go right now to confirm it.
Who has stood for a Commissioner in your village?
---- A Commissioner is your public servant who does important
business for you.
- Let's choose an able person worthy of your confidence.
Do you know what business is done by the Agricultural Land
Commission?
- It protects your agricultural land and keeps farm villages,
where land already has been transferred, from returning to feudal
conditions.
Let's set up a good, strong Commission.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.98)
894.52/9-849
APR 25
United States Ptical Adviser
for Japan
REC'D
Tokyo, September 8, 1949.
OIVISION OF
SEPT 12
No. 616
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIHS
UNCLASSIFIED
SEP201949
ACTION
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
FE
INFO
Subject: Transmittal of Writs and Written Advices of Purchase of
Farmland, for Japanese Residents of the United States.
DCR
L
ITP
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to this
894.52/9-849
DS
Mission's despatch no. 154 of March 16, 1949, on the subject
"Notification of Japanese Land Reform Program to Absentee Owners
OLI
of Land in Japan", and to enclose one hundred writs and written
advices of purchase of farmland in Japan under the Japanese land
AGRI
reform law, which were received from the Japanese Government
under cover of a memorandum of August 23, 1949, from the Ministry
COM
of Foreign Affairs to General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers. The memorandum, a copy of which is enclosed
for the Department's information, requests that the documents be
forwarded to the listed Japanese residents of the United States.
It is requested that the Department, should no objection be
perceived, forward the documents to the individuals indicated.
dcTin Tahen
(see Tohyo dispitch 704
Enclosure:
Memorandum from the Japanese
Government, Ministry of For-
eign Affairs, August 23, 1949.
Parchment Mat to the Department
S 502
FILED
TWAinsworth/bjs
81313
UNCLASSIFIED
M
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
B

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 616 dated
September 8, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Tranamittal
of Writs and ritten Advices of Pur-
chase of Farmland, for Japanese Resi-
dents of the United States".
(COPY)
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
LIAISON BUREAU
TO
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS, SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED
PONERS.
FROM
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
SUBJECT
Request for Transmittal of Writs and Written Advices
of Purchase of Farmland to Japanese Residents in
U.S.A.
FOM No. 658(CJ)
23 August 1949
1. Reference is made to the following CICO letters:
a. No. 426(1G), 15 February 1949, subject: Transmittal of
Letter of Ministry of Foreign Affairs Concerning Purchase
of Agricultural Lands in Japan Owned by Japanese Resi-
dents Abroad.
b. No. 382(1G), 11 February 1949, subject: Request for
Transmittal of Note Verbale to Swedish Diplomatic Mission.
2. The Japanese Government wishes to request the General Head-
quarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, to be good
enough to transmit the enclcsed writs and written advices of pur-
chase of farmland totalling 100, through the authorities con-
cerned of the Government of the United States of America, to
Japanese residents. in the United States of America (Mainland)
whose addresses are mentioned in the attached list.
FOR THE MINISTER:
/s/ Eiji Wajima
(Eiji Wajima)
Director, Bureau of Control,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
2 Incls
1. Writs and written advices of
purchase of farmland.
2. List of addresses: (in 7 copies).
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.89)
THE FORZIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
United States Political Adviser
OCT/1949
for Japan
894.52/10 549
No. 69
lethus meni th ediions
UNCLA SSIFIEL
07
REC D
adobersees.
894.52/10-549
in
assistanca
OCT
inclosunsy
Tranamsa  r ts and Written Advices of Purchase of
Fad arese hesidents of the United States.
ACTION
FELENC
TNFO
The A n Pelica Adviser for Japan has the honor to refer
DP
to thsdespatch  61s of September 8. 1949, on the
sane ad et and  enclose swrits and written edvices of
purchasma under the Japanese Land ref orm law,
which werve ver of a memorandum of October 3, 1949,
from ry  Fore Affeire of the Japanese Government to
Genem ao vers. Supreme Gommander for the Allied Powers.
DS 2/
The memormour a py at which as enclosed for the Department's
informat pguests het he secuments be forwarded to the listed
Japanese resadenrn of the Vns ted States
I ee hermet should no obgection be
orm the individuals indicated.
perceaved ar
Enclcsures
223 write and written
advices of parchase of
farlend in Jan
Copy of letter from
Mimantry of Foreign
Affairs dated October S.
1949
FAP
502
0CT281949
TWAinswerth/bk
FILED
Parchment Mat to Department
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.89)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No i to Dempatoht
dated October 5, 1949 from.th
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Transmittal of Writs and Writton
dvices of Purchase of Farmland,
for Japanese Residents of the
United States".
(COPY)
JAPANESE GOVERIMENT
MEMTSY OF POREIGN AFFAIRS
LIAISON BUREAU
TO
GENEAL ADARTRRS. SUPREME COM ANDER FOR THE
AL YED PORERS
FROM
y Foren Afars
SUBJECT
Request For Tranemittel of Wrats and Written Advices
of Purcbese of Farmland to Japanese Residents in the
Unateo States otAmeraon
FOM NO 
3 October 1949
1.
Reterence s mate o the fotwns oloo letters
o )y ubeet rnsmittal of
Letter of Mane etry of Fopean Affaurs Concerning Purchase
of Ar bamda apan Cwned by Japanese Residents
Abr bad
b
No 22(13)11 Pe7 1940
subgect: Request for
Transn atai ct Wote Verbele to Swedish Diplomatic Mission.
The Japenese Goverare wshes to reeuest the General Headquarters,
Supreme Com an er for the Allies Pawera to be good enough to tranemit
the enelosed wr ite and wetten advaces of purchase of farmland totaling
223, throueh the wusherevien coneerned of the Government of the United
States of America. to Sapamene residenes in the United States of
Americe (Mainland) whose eacresses are mentioned in the attached list.
FOR THE MINISTER
(Eiji Wajima)
Chief Bureau of Control,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
2 Incls
1. Writs and written wavices
of purchase of armland
2. List of adcresees.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.96)
ata
To the Editor:
Dear Bir:
I am enolosing oertain writs and written adwine
of purohase of farmland in Japan under the Japameme
land reform law. These documents were reseived ums
cover of a memorandum dated Ootober 3, 1949 frem th
that they be forwarded, through the offiess of leadis
Japanese language newspapers, to certain Japamese
894.52/10-2549
residents of the United States.
I regret the importunity of requesting that your
newspaper insure the delivery, so far as possible, or
these documents. However, since this Department has
been given no addresses for the reeiplents of the
doouments other than that of your newspaper, there
appears to be no alternative means of expediting
delivery. Anything you can do to assist us in this
matter will be much appreoiated.
Very truly yours,
John M. Allison
Director,
Office of Northeast Aslan Affaire
Enclosures:
As stated.
A true copy of
/spt
the signed arigh
CS/H
The Hokubei Bhimpo,
06 11 West l8th Street,
New York ll, N.Y.
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
10/24/49

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.90)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Pclitical Adviser
for Japan
894.52/11-349
Tokyc, November 3, 1949.
C.
REC'D
No.765
NOV 11
letters drapted to the
UNCLASSIFIED
file
6 disfed edifors ?
ACTION
FE ENCLS
Jap pa pers in Us. Nor.
21,49, m green(NA)
INFO
DCR
SUBJECT
Transmittal of Wrate ona Wr:tten Adviccs of Pu chase of
CLI
894.
Farmland for Japanese Resiaerts of the Unit ed Statea.
5
2
The Acting Pelitical Aiviser tor Japan has the horen to refer
to this Mieslon's despatcht o s2e c septerber 3, 224s, and no.
I!
637 of Outober 5 1a4a on the sart wteect. ana te enclose 25 writs
and written eavices of purchoss f emlend in Japen under the
649
Jepanese leni reforn lew. whach wer reseaved uader ower of s
mencrandun of Octcter 26. Fo4e fom the Manastry of Fereesn
Affaars of the Jepesese Gorernmene to General Headquerters. Supreme
21
Commender for the Allied Powers The meroraxaum, e ceny of which is
enclc sed for the mepar cment e saformateon requests that the dopaments
te forwarded to the listed Jap ne se resilents of the United States.
It le reguestcd thet the Tejer tment p vided me objectien is
perceived, forward the socumerts te the snfividuels ineicated.
26 Write end a atten
advices of yurchess
of farmlan? in Jepen
Copy of letter from
Ministry of Foreign
Af faire Cated Cct ober
26 1949
502
SSCarpenter/bk
Par chment Mat to Depai trert
5
2
FAP
UNCLASSIFIED
w
315
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclcsure No. 2 to Despatch No.
755 dated November 3, 1949 from
the United Statee Political
Aaviaer for Japan. Tokyo, on the
subject "Transmittal of Writs
and Written Advices of Purchase
of Farmland, for Japanese
Residents of the United States".
(COPY)
JAPANESE GOVTRNMENT
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
LIAISON BUREAU
TO
GENERAL HEADQUARTHRS, SUPREME COM ANDER FOR THE ALLIED
FOWERS
FROM
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
SUBJECT:
Request for Tranemittel cf Writs and Written Alvices of
Purchase of Fermland to Japanese Residents in the United
States of Americe.
FOM No. 1236(CJ)
26 October 1949
1. Reference is made to the following CLco lettere:
a. No. 426(1G) 15 February 1949 subgect: Tranemittal of
Letter of Ministry of Foreign Affairs Concerning Purchase
of Agricultural Iande in Jepen Owned by Japanese Residents
Abroad.
No. 382(1). 11 February 1949. subject: Request for Trans-
mittal of Note Verbale to Swedieh Diplomatic Mission.
2. The Japanese Government wishes to request the General
Headquerters. Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. to be good
enough to transmit the enclosed writs and written advices of
purchase of farmland totaling 25. thrcugh the authorities concerned
of the Government of the United States of America, to Japanese
residents in the United States of America (Mainland) whose addresses
are mentioned in the attached list
FOR THE MINISTER:
2 Incls
(Eiji Wajima)
1.
Writs and witten
Chief. Bureau of Control.
advices of farmland.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
(Enclosure no. 1)
2. List of addresses.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.94)
Sub-enclosure to
Enclosure No. 2
to Tokyo'e Despatch No. 765.
November 3. 1949
- 3-
Num-
Name
Prescnt Address
Seat of Agric-
ber
ultural Land
1
YOSHIDA
SYUZO
c/o "The Fichi Bei Times,"
17al Sutter Street.
San Francisco 15, Calif ,
U.S.A.
Fukuahima-ken
2
YOSHIDA, TOYOJI
11
11
3
TAKAGI, USHIZO
1
11
4
SAWANA, YOSAKU
11
Teyame-ken
5
HANAMI, KOTO
Fukushima-ken
TOMEO
SATO. TADAO
15
Nagano~cen
7
SAITO, YAGOHICHI
c/e "The Rofu Shampo. "
104 No. Loc A. Les St
Los Ancoles. Callf.
S.A
Fukushima-ken
9
OBATA, KINSUKE
n
11
9
HANAMI, RYOKEN
SHUNKEN
ISAMU
11
n
10
SAKAUCHI, SAKUI
15
n
11
HANAMI, MITORI
n
12
OKUBO, HANJI
it
Toyama-ken
13
MARUYAMA, IKUJIRO
1
11
14
MOROOKA, JYUNZABURO
e/o "The He kabe Hochi"
217 South 15th Ave..
Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.
Mie-ken
TOMI
25
YOKUNOTO TAKEO
11
vamaguchi ken
16
UENO. SABURC
11
Fukushima-ken
"ANAKA
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.96)
Sub-enclosure to
Enclosure No. 2
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 765,
November 3, 1949.
- 3-
Num-
Name
Fresent Address
Seat of Agric-
ber
ultural Lend
17
TANAKA, SOTOZO
c/o "The Hokubei Hochi",
217 South 15th Ave.,
Seattle. Washington,
U.S.A.
Toyame-ken
18
TAKANO. BUNJI
19
TAKAMURA, JYUNSAKU
11
1
20
EI, MORIKIYO
c/c "The Utah Nippo",
161 W. So. Temple Street.
Salt Lake City. Utah.
U. S. A.
Fukushima-ken
21
KURUMADA, KINJI
ff
n
22
TERAJIMA, KIYONORI
Toyama-ken
23
HORI, KISHIRO
11
Niigata-ken
24
SUZUKI, UTAKA
c/o "The Chicego Shimpo".
1325 E. 47th St.,
Chicago, Ill
U.S.A。
Fukuehimaken
25
FUKAYAMA, SHOSAKU
c/o "The Colorado Times",
P.0. Box 296, Denver 1.
Col.., U.S.A.
Toyama-ken
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.93)
no.1—6
go "The grichi Bei Times,
1761 dutter Street,
Dax Francisco 15,
Calif, u.s.A.
92o.7-.13
9." The Rafu Shimpo,"
104 No. Sos angeles St,
dos angeles,
Calif, U.S.A.
go.14-19
go "The Noteubei Hochi,"
217 south 15th ave,
Seattle, Ivaohington,
u.s. A.
no.20-23.
T%." The utah nippo,
161 W. do. Temple Street.
Salt Lake City,
Utah, u.s.A.
no.24
go "The Chicago Shimpo,"
1325 E. 47th 8t,
Chicago, Ill, U.S.A.
no.25
." The Colorado Times,"
P.0.Box 296,
Inclosure to FOM Na
Denver 1, Col, U.S.A.

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.98)
November 21, 1949
In reply refer to
NA
To the Editor:
Dear Sir:
894.52/11-2149
With reference to my letter to you of
Ootober 25, I am forwerding some more writs
and written advices of purohase of farmland
in Japan under the Japanese land reform law.
The Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affaire has
requested that these documents be forwarded
through the offices of leading Japanese lang-
uage newspapers to certain Japanese residents
of the United States.
our assistance in ensuring the delivery,
so far as possible, of these documents to the
designated recipients will be much appreoiated.
Very truly yours,
S
Signied
John M Allison
Director,
Office of Northeast Asian Affairs
Enclosures:
As stated.
The Niohi Bel Times,
A true copy of
1761 Sutter Street,
the s'gned orig
CS/K
San Franoisco 15, Calif.
FE:NA:MGreen:c1h
11/21/49

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.92)
THE POREDIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Poltical Adviser
for Japan
Tokvo, November 25, 1949.
13
No. 918
enclored documnts foruvanded 2
REC 'D
DEC 2
UNCLASSIFIED
litrs
7 Gap. languase
ACTION
newspapus in Us under
Cover on lettes To each
INFO
then ediTors frm NA/JMA
DCR
Letteis dao,td Dec.7,'49
OLI
SUBJECT
Tranemittal of Writs and Written Aavices of Purchage
Na/mgrem
1XR
of Farmland for Transmission to Japanese Residents of
the United States.
8
0:47
6
5
Fé
The Aeting Political Adviser for Jenan has the honor tc refer
2
to this Vissi on's despatches no/616 of September 8. 1949, no 697
XR
of Octoher 5 1949, and no. 765 of November 3. 1949. on the same
sthicet, snd to enclose 155 writs and written advices of purchase
of rmland in Tapan under the Japanese lond reform law. These
1
894
docuteuts were received under cover of a memorandum of November 19,
2
1249. (copy enclosed) from the Ministry of Foreign Affeirs of the
5
Japanese Government to General Headquarters, Supreme Comrander for
49
the A'lied Fowers, requesting that the documents be forwarded to
the listed Japenese residents of the United States
It is reguestes that the Depertrent previaed no objection
is percerved. forward the documenta to the inaividuals concerned.
Enctemree 
155 Writs and written
advices of purch-se of
Copy of letter from
Ministry of Foreign
Affaira. dated November
19 1949, and sub enc1.
503
SStarpenter/bk
Parchment Mat to Department
11
FAP
CJ
UNCLASSIFIED
9
1949
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No.
818 dated November 25, 1949 from
the United States Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Trnsmittal of Writs and
Written Advices of Purchase of
Farmland for Transmission to
Japanese Residents of the United
States".
(COPY)
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
LIAISON BUREAU
TO
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS, SUPREME COMMANTER FOR THE
ALLIED POWERS.
FROM
Ministry of Foreign Affaire.
SUFJECT :
Request for Transmittal of Writs and Written Advices
of Purchase of Farmland to Japanese Residents in the
United States of America.
FOM No. 1467(OJ)
19 November 1949
1. Reference is made to the following CLCo letters:
a.
No. 426(1G), 15 February 1949. subject: Transmittal of
Letter of Ministry of Faeign Affairs Concerning Purchase
 Agricultural Lands in Jepan Owned by Tapanese Residents
Abroad
b.
No. 382(1G), 11 February 1949, subject: Request for Trans-
mittai of Note Verbale to Swediah Diplomatic Mission.
2. The Tepanese Government wishes to request the General Head.
quarters. Suprene Commander for the Allied Powers. to be good
enough to transmit the enclosed writes and written advices of
purchase of fermiand totaling 155, through the authorities concerned
of the Government cf the United States of America, to Jepanese
residents in the United States of America (Mainland) whose addresses
are mentioned in the attached list.
FOR THE MINISTER:
(Eiji Wajima)
Chief, Bureau of Control,
? Incle
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
1.
Write and written advices
of purchase of farmland.
List of addresses.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.95)
-, 2
28
KUWABARA, TSUNEMATSU
24
UEDA, SETSU
0
25
TAWARA, MOICHIRO
26
TAKEUCHI, TSUNEO
27
FUJMOTO, TSUNEKICHI
28
IWANAGA, TOSHIO
29
UESAKA, SANJIRO
MASAO
30
KIYAMA, ZENZO
n
81
MORISHIMA, HIKOZO
32
YAMAJI, SENZO
53
MIYAZAKI, JURO
34
KUWAMOTO, SANZO
35
TANAKA, EIZO
a
56
OGATA, TOMEJIRO
87
KIHARA, SHIKAZO
58
NAKANARA, KAKUTARO
H
39
HAYASHI, SUEKI
40
IZUMI, MATAHIKO
n
à
41
NAKABAYASHI, SHIGERU
42
IWAMOTO, INOSUKE
43
IWAMOTO, SUNA
44
ARAMAKI, KICHIROJI
45
TODA, TAKESHI
8
46
SHIMAMURA, SHIGERU
47
IZERI, ICHIJI
48
HONDA, SUEZO

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.90)
3
49
TABATA, TOJU
8
50
KANAKAKI, SADAHEI
51
WATANABE, TOKUZO
52
WATANABA, TSUNESAKU
55
SAKATA, TATSUKI
54
INABA, HIKOTARO
55
KOGA, TAKA
0
●
0
56
IZERI, SHINJI
健
57
OGATA, MATSUHEI
n
58
FUKUSHIMA, TOSHITOMO
59
SHIMAZU, KATSUHEI
60
NISHKAWA, MINORU
0
61
SATO, TAKAYUKI
ENJI
62
SAKAI, GONZO
63
AKUTAGAWA, KIYOSHI
n
8
64
MIYAMOTO, KUMAHIKO
n
n
65
MIYAMOTO, KUMAHIKO
65
UESUGI, SUGIZO
n
8
67
TSUDA, KANTARO
13
68
NAKAGAWA, TAMEHACHI
n
n
69
MAYASHIDA, HIDEJIRO
n
n
70
TANAKA, HATSUZO
n
71
MAEDA, JINSAKU
8
MATSUZO
72
TAKEHARA,
MAOZABURO
18
8
MOICHI
73
MITSUEDA, HIDEHIKO
n
2

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.96)
L
74
ONE, SOSUKE
Tokushima-ken
75
AKASHI, HICHISABURO
Saga-ken
76
IZUMI, WABIICHI
8
77
NAKAJIMA, CHOZABURO
78
WATANABE, KEITA
8
79
WATANABE, JYUZABURO
KEITA
80
KOBAYASHI, OTOJIRO
n
TORAICHI
81
SANEMATSU, DENZO
82
KOBUCHI, KIICHI
83
MIKURI, SEIJI
84
MACHIDA, KIYO
Kagoshima-ken
85
MACHIDA, JIROZAEMON
馆
86
KATAOKA, MAGAMICHI
n
87
MATSUOKA, MASAO
c/o " Ths Hokubei Shimpo",
"West 18th Street,
New York%, N.Y. U.S A.
Kumamoto-Ken
88
IWASAKO, KIYOSHI
n
89
SEKO, YOSHIMATSU
c/o " The Hokubei Hochi", 217
South 15th Ave., Seattle,
Washigton, U.S.A.
Gifu-ken
90
KIMURA, HARU
n
Saga-ken
91
NAKAJIMA, KAMEZO
n
92
SHITO, KIYOICHI
n
93
MIYAHARA, RYOICHI
Kagoshima-ken
94
MASUNAGA, SHIGEO
Kumamoto-ken
95
ARAMAKI, HIKOTARO
8
96
NAGATA, INORI
n
n

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.94)
-5-
97
FUJITA, MASAO
98
FURUTA, KUHACHIRO
99
TAKEHARA, INOSUKE
0
5
100
YAMAÇHITA, TOKUMATSU
101
ISHII, HISAKICHI
c/o "The Chiago Shimpo", 1325
E. 47th St., Chicago, Ill.,
U.S.A.
102
OKAMOTO, YUSHIRO
n
103
KATAYAMA, HARUNO
n
w.
104
TANAKA, AKIYOSHI
c/o "The Utah Nippo" 161 No.
So. Temple Street, Salt Lake
City, Utah, U.S.A.
105
SAKAI,ASAkichi
106
ONO, NISHIJI
n
Kagoshima-ken
107
n
108
TANOUE, SUEZO
c/o "The Colorado Times," P.O. Box 
296, Denver,1,Col., U.S.A.
KumamStooken
108
FURUTA, TATSUTO
8
110
NAKAMURA, RYOZO
n
館
111
SAKURAI, HIDEICHI
en
Tokushima-ken
112
MORITA, NATSUZO
c/o "The Rafu Shimpo", 104 No.
Loo Angeles St, Cos Angeles,
Calif., U.S.A.
Kumamoto-ken
115
SAKAI, MASAMI
114
UCHIKOSHI, INOKICHI
n
8
115
MIKAWA, TOKUMA
n
116
IWANAGA, SHINJI
8
n
117
IWANAGA, SHINJI
9
INOUE, GUNZO
MIYAMOTO, NAGATOSHI
118
MATSUSHITA, KISABURO
n

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.92)
8
119
MINAKAWA, MASAHISA
11
120
KIMURA, SHICHIZO
121
NAKAJIMA, DANZO
122
IZERI, TORAHEI
125
MIYAMOTO, TSUNEZO
124
AKAHOSHI, KENZO
125
IWANAGA, SHINJI
n
126
HONDA, KAZUMA
127
SHIGAKI, UICHIRO
8
128
SAWADA, KATSUHIKO
8
129
SAKAIDA; KAZUO
130
OGATA, KAZO
8
151
SATO, TATSUO
132
DOI, TAKEICHI
n
Saga-ken
155
HAYASHI, SOSUKE
Kagoshima-ken
184
NAKAJIMA, TSUNEKICHI
n
185
IZERI, KATSUJIRO
Kumamoto-ken
Bei
136
TOGAMI, FUDE
c/o "The Miehi Bs1 Times", 176g
Sutter Street, San Francisco.5,
Calif., U.S.A.
157
ISHII, SAPAKI
n
n
158
IZERI, KAJIJIRO
MATAHICHI
n
n
159
NOJIMA, MANJIRO
0
140
HARA, UICHIRO
n
L

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.95)
-7-
141
TOGAMI, KAMEO
142
TOGAMI, SHINAE
145
DKI, HYOSHICHI
TSUZUKI
144
HONRA, MASAO
145
INOUE, HIKOHACHI
146
TARATA, KANZO
n
147
FUKAMI, KIYOSP
n
148
HONDA, TATSUKI
n
149
OKAWA, CHIGUSA
n
150
OMORI TOYOKI
151
MURATA, KUMAZO
n
152
ETO, REISAKU
n
Saga-Men
155
YONEKURA,ASAJIRO
*
154
TAKAO, FUSAKICHI
n
155
SAITO, KAZUHACHI
