894.20293 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In China Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., September (File 1437)
ID: 894.20293-1437   Pages: 72   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20293-military-affairs-army-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
27
NOTE
SUBJECT
Jananese handbill; and granslation of
an anti-foreign art:cle.
Transmits comies and translation
of .
894.2029
rr
2
7
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
#209
P
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
S
/MJD
From
Foochow (Ward)
Dated.._Sent..21.1940
To
File No.__711.90/63
1-1840
894.0

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.92)
QUINTUPLICATE
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Poochow, China
ortember 21, 1940.
SuBJect: franemittins (1) potoatatis couice 1 
Lapanese handoill; (2) povies 21 an nglian
1085
tranglatlon of the taxte of the handbill:
and (3) poci n n lieh rsnsintion 
an anti-foraln artiole.
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I hav the onor t trans it, es of posuible
interest to the Da artmont, a oupy of thie Consulate's
despatoh no. 177 of todny'a date addresaed to the
imbessy, anoloninc copiea of (1) hotostatio conies
of a Jepanesr handbill raported to ave been scattered
fairly widely over pouthern Fu ien by Japenese eero-
planes i1. the first part of u ust of this year, (ε)
an Englisn trenelation of the written texte of that
bandbill, and (3) an snglisn tranaletion of an ertiole
entitled "The Morels of Freeent Day Diplonets" printed
in the Nan Ians in Eoe in ite adition of Au. ust 29,
1940, and written by ur. Hoü Hoüen-yü.
Respeetfully yours,
A true ropy of
the signed orig
Robert 3. sard
121
Ameriesn Consul
Eeelosure:
To Amariean Embessy No. 197,
Gesed September 21, 1940.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.88)
Hosure no. 1 to despatch no. 2o9, dated September 21,
40, from Robert S. Ward, American Consul at Foochow,
China, transmitting photostatic copies of Japanese handbill
and translations of handbill and article.
8e. 177
PRCA CONULATE
Foochow
September 21, 1940.
Subject: Tranamittins (1) photoetatie goples
of a Japenege handbill pgatterad
In the rut part of Auaust: ()
gontan of on Enalioh trenalatton
of the  f the
(3) goviee In Enellah tranelation
of an antl-forolan prtlole publianed
In the Logsl preee by one of the
hIxhest renkine offfolele In Pukion.
The Honoreble
Neleon Truuler Jonaon,
Americen mbaseedor,
01pina.
sir:
honor to tranamit, n of ossible
Imterest to the abesay, coples of (1) hotostatio
coples of e Japanese handbill reporte to hsve been
seattered feirly widely over mouthern Fukien by
Jepenese meroplanes in the first pert of August of
this yeer, (2) en English trenaletion of the written
texts of thet handbill, nnd (3) en Englich trenale-
tien of an ertiele entisled "The Morale of Presant
Day Diplomte" printed in the Han Dans i Pae in
18e edition of Angust s9, 1940, end written  Er.
Kal Hakea-yä, one of the highest ranking civil officiels
in the Provineiel Geverememt of Pukien under the
anetmmm," and meely regarded in this distries as
setually

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.90)
estually exersisins the sivil pewer amd funstiems of
the lester ofrieiel. Tmis despateh will desoribe
the contente of eeeh of these doouments in turm, where-
after there dll be submisted & commentery upon them
in relation to the presant politieal sitstion. à
sory of the deapato ns " w le follows in the
paragreph next hereunder.
. The propegende bendbill puotes whe it
elleges to be the United reee end reuter repurts of
a etetement ssid to heve been lesued yresl entiel
tery Borl  July 6, o,  the erfeot thet
the United tatee would like to we a onroe ootrine
applied to both urope and ule.  the coentary
on the quoted reporte and in an artiale ! a 'box' on
the feee of the bill, the propeendist urees the idee
that this stetement expresmes st les: the real inten-
tions of Ameries toward Asie, whatever palliative
enmounoements she misht leter feel oalled upon to
meke. elever oartoon on he reveree depicts the
President outting the world into three slioee -
ome eeeh for Ameries, Japan, end Cermeny, in eesoréanes
with the new  world Monree Doetrine'. The newepeper
artiele b Mr. Heü sherply ettecks the United tates
for eontinuing to supply Japen with the mteriele with
wmian to wreek hevee in Chime while allegedly the
Amerieen Government issues humanits rien pronounesments
agmpetmetie to the Chimese; 1s reviles Greet Britien
for wmet she sather of the ereiele regeres as the
tseeeperest bed faits of Prime Kinister Charehill's
stetemems ateer the alesins ef the Basme Resd asd for

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.88)
一
ber alleged stupidity in her negotiatiens with sselim,
as well es fer her relavions to Frenee: the predies-
memt in whieh the west finds iteelf todey the suthar
laye to the sestern negation of the five fundemental
virtuse of the Chinese people hien are expreseloms of
imutable lew. in the coment on these two doeumemts
it is submitted thst the: refleot points or view which
might easily be recono!led, end certein of the impliee-
tione of hot faot sre dinounsed.
The Vapamees  ropaeande Landbill. In the firet
week in aptonber te re were brought to Po o ow,
throuh n noyneeeve nt o of
a handbill hie was ate to ave bee sont ered
1n lerge numbera ver widel ve erated areas  inese
controlled souther Pu le : e nsrly art of u ust.
Beceus perso foundhepuesslon of suet
hansbill is regarded ns a :raitor, and lieble to
emeeution on hat cinrge, copien of sueh dooumente ere
usuelly unprocureble, snd i: this cese only one copy
we loaned to  he frion, to erait of photostatie
eoplee being made.
he subjeet of the handbill is the statamemt
reported to have been mede to the press y  rentdontial
Jecretery stephen arly on July 6, lo40, to the effeet
thet she Unised states hed no intention of interfering
in emy terriserßel probleme in surope or Asia, and that
1t would liks to sse a Nomree Doetrime applied to sesh
of theve contineste. In its 'heedlime' ertiele" the
hend121
"pp. l er the tweneletion (melesure No. B).

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.80)
-4
hemébill purporte to uote varbetin the Unised Fress
emd Router newe eaeney reporte of Mr. Sarly's state-
momt, emd thes proeeeds to oo ent on then. Represent-
ing whet mey perhepa da accepte: vs a senerally mecurete
eecount of the motuel statament,  se uoted reports
are eleverly padded  leev te ind of the reader
prepred to noos  conutruotl o. he contary
pleoes upo chom, ., ar o's t itude, hih
nr ltinerissoht
offhad w st les pes:
the! whe will
not utere
of dirfarenc
21
1. .
re
 tninafrentrdeii  th
affolrn of contins tul suros bo andlou  h
vietor i.
the
at, Jorny nd Ital the
affair of sie  a ill allow to be ndled  tne
leeder or the ar rater  gue, epen, mnd rerlee
will not interfere. or inetanes, wit! roferenee to
ustio:un dipositiou ofre
Indo-Chine  th utoh est indies, it aould be mald
that mrln d  rndy noneed  andepolley."
Frenee, the coasent ry pointe out, hes alreedy oollepeed.
and ngland, the ther foraiun netion o  Chine ha
pleeed crnt rellmnee, ls confronted wit the  reetest
poosible raril, wt: le her prestige i ar mat
"is fellind lowar and lower every day".
The atory appearims in n 'bor' o: the feee
of the hendbill slleges thet "the statement that
Baropeane should memage Maropee: affaire, end Lsietims
sheuld meaegs Asietie effsire is the genuine expressiem
a

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.90)
of she real and trustwertky 'geod intentiom' ef
Amerieens" towerd the Far Mmst: tocoues depemdems
matiens were so shoeked by this statement, is was
neesesary for the Searetary of state to "sey e few
worde" (to eamn the approhensions srouced), and thet
the resident mi nt subsequently even proelein that
Ameries's poliey ms woeltered, but thet "the renen
heve alreedy been chested by the so-oalled 'no ohange
In poliey'"; that, 1 the oane of "ranon, the marieans
ended up "with un expression of luve but en edaiesion
that they had o wo lity to eeelat.
s oortoon o the reveres of the handoill
depiete e large and debonalr figure labeled "Roosevelt"
outting the world sefore him into three ulices, one
for Ameries, one for Jmpen, and the third for ermeny:
tugaing piteously a: the coettaile or thie irat figure
is e mall one in a sweet of supplieation - supposed to
represent rims Minieter Churehill of Englend - while
two other figures to the left, one of whon ls being
taromn into the air and the other of whom is running
ewey in bewilderment, repressnt respeetively  talin
of Russie and Ohieng Ami-shek of Chine.' The emption
to the right of the cartoon is to the effeot that the
"World Monros Joetrine" divides the sert!: into arees
ruled by Jepea, Ameries, end Germsmy, respeetively.
De Articla  Lataratlema Diplemy. The
artiele emtitled "The Merals of Presest Dey Diplomats"
takes
judeod an 1te om marits, 1e an ezeellent

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.87)
takes as ite tast the essertien that while fer five
thousand yeare the five virtuss, hemsreleam, shskteent
y,,   e 
the uaalterins standarde of Chinese conduet beth is
their relations to one mnother and in those with other
states, the other lamdin ations of the world todey
are guided by the somplete negation of :hese virtuss.
In the Cninese text this ides is brilliantly intro-
duoed and illustreted by the allegetion he? foreigners
wee the most bheutifui Chinese an!: ques es lemp-stands,
ete.," in order the? the srtiole  be useful es wall
es artietio, but wt this forelen idee of utility
reeults i the gation of whatever wrtistie velue the
entique may heve d, ue ae, ellecedl. 'he foreign
applieation of the five virt ee in internationel
relations reaults in the negation of thos virtues.
s hie firet fi ustration of the wmy 1s which
this "lemp-abede" of utiliterimmim eovers over the
negates whet purports to be pe evolenes, the euther
asoerte thet,
"veryome knows shat over 9os of tue
materiale waiet our amemy uses in bembing
our undefended eisées end in she sleughter
of cur ianceent people semse frem ameries.
Taree yeare ge, at the time when the
sutherities,eesing from a humeniterien
stendpeint, issued è premouncememt sel-
euring eur ememy, but the meterids
essemtial to thet saemy, meries sontinued
te supply him es before in en unesasins
8100.
He then preeseds to allege that this situation
centimeed until it wes reelimed tast Amerieen interests

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.83)
-7-
in Chine were sufferind severely froc the Japanese
Invesion of thet country, w ereefter the "morel embergo"
as started; that while erien buuiness mon, "netins
like e bunen or pros its es, were dolag everything in
their power to r-eh au pliee of aur ateriele to Jepan
with whio theatter t win ater the e le of
cuin ad de troiti-ornlpi
iofor
folar oo pmasio and felae
hy" wit the o 
venent' to 
Cinrgilor ilntoth
Britian loon to Csce val v 1 ter unioh.
rilar ureli peonrlint
llnioieted
1 ll
bee the felure of sot rea: riteis and the cltad
tatee to iond renc mte eld i r ur f
poril, wher the fomer was supros d to be bound to her
by en imdiswol bln al !muce, end she letter hnd proclsed
to do overything  itu power to hol.f the bresoh
1n relatlone betveen  lend and ranee followine the
ranoh dofen.  ye,The were like t shar
togued sld wosen f the villae, soreemine abuees at
eaos other i the middle or the atreet, rriende estordey
and enemles today
He then refere to the fallure of thn talien
Ambasmedor to C ine to repair to chunghine to prenent
his eredentisle, and to the cald receptiou siven the
Chimeee Ambessedor to Yerlin, both of whie: n asertbes
to the feet that the Axle pertnere were at that time
"Sn me miast af making lore to Japen".

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.90)
Next is deceribed the situetion follewins
the Vereailles Treety in whien England was allegedly
led to hope that a resusoitated Germeny would eet es
a belenee for the then doalnant end militarized Franes,
and later thet the Cemwny of Hitler would serve es e
balr aint Rusia. lan  hought, the
outhor elleges,
"... to meke uso of  renee ns her
vanguard, and after it became olear
that no fire wae coing to break it
between Cermny snd Rusala, to usc
Russie eo a means or i volvind erasany.
talin wes not willing to be oheoted
by this ruse, and moreover joined with
Mitler ... hen the Ruemo-Cermen rent
wms proeleimed, Chamberlein wee a
sterties thmt e did' ave lave the
eneray to 1e. up  io umbrelle!
England, rscoguized for her oleverness
In foreign arfair, ad ad the tables
turmed on her completely by telin and
Hitler. It may be meid tht ngland's
stupidity was so grent that it will
never be surpessed:
He dimmieses the Tritish comprom: ses with
Jepen es "the servile eotions of • person who is
dependent for his exietenee on the soodwill of anothar".
and pointe to tin essertioms of Britiah statemmen
Shat Britimh poliey toward Ohine hes not changed, as
wall es to the sudden coneummetion of the Ruseo-Oerman
peet, as evidenees of the bed faith of (estern!
aiplomey.
The ehief eharge whien the author an to
make mgeimst Japeneee dipleneey is :he: i: is petterned
en that of the west; ite errove in Ohime ere likened
se en unmetuml monetrosity resultins fron e eonfusion
of valass. He reeslks she fest that chimese pleves
0000

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.88)
一0
anee flew over tae Jepenese eepital but did not bemb
i8, snd he ssserts thet Japenese prisonere of war ere
well treated.
Is sonelusion he states st owever much
Chime may save muffered is the pest from tar steadfest
pursult of the five virtues, if the whole werle is
not so be destroyed, the finel vietory is certein to
be Chimm's: she need only go on without ahenee, end
in the souree of time and after a thousnnd ahanges
the world will come to submit itself to ner ureneneing
oonstaney.
Coy. ithr f a doc t 
regarded as of aome nterest  Itself; they were
written et apprmximatel, the same time and deel broadly
with the same subjeo. They are beind tranam)sted
topother, however, n lvitn the besy's attrntion
to the feet that, althou h one of them is n Jupanese
propagande bulletin, the posseseion or whien le e
serioue offense sinst military lew in this Provinee.
and the other wes writtan by e rankins rovineial
effieiel and publisbed i: Goverwsent-coutrolled news-
papere probebly throughout the rovines, :here is
meverthelese nothing mutuelly repugrent i: the premises
from whien they preeeed. Seeh exploits tne Frepen
debeele snd whst is regarded as the probsble oollmpse
of Britian power, and waile the propegends handbill
argee that no reliamee be pleeed on the hope of
Amsriemm aid fer Chimm, the ertiele alleges thet Ameries
nes eeteelly been aldins Japes, mstever professions
of sgagetky fer Gaime ake may beve beea making.
I8

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.90)
-10-
It my be noted that beth of thes refleet and
pley upon e feet wmieh is regerded by some obeerrers
as more important then eny other in Bastern Asie today:
the incelculable less of preetigs whien all Suropean
Powere, end particularl, Great Britel:. and Prenee, have
suffared in Asie es the result of the presemt war.' In
his diesussion of the diploneo/ of .estern netions.
Hod n spe the anatheme of a bitter pen upon them ell;
Jepen 1s prinoipelly to be desplsed more because she
hes followed estern dels hen for her atteok upon
Ohine, into whian. he would ave his readers presume
that ahe wes led by her westernizetior and coneequent
alionation fro: the im utabio values.
There 1s alao, ra ioally oxplioit ! he
propegande handbill, 1: less clearly imylieit 1 h
artiele, " recogcitio of enother of the cleerly
Sominent feotore n the prosent situetion in :he Far
Dmst: the power of the United tates to deeide the
1soue, not only of the war 1 Surope, but of that in
Asle as well - a power so derinite that, es the hand-
ill indicates, e drcision to make no choiee is still
The situation of the present Britimh Conoul i: Focehow
affesds an unimportent but pertape typiesl instenes of
this: while this ofries deals direetly with ranking
military and eivil euthoritses of the Provines (as Is
for Peseign Affaire, whese renk hee been degreded to
thet of am Amsistent in a suberdimate erriee in ome
of the Previneßal Bureans. Sbertly after the elesing
af the Bonme Reed the Counedller told this wrl ter in
in the msrlenn pesttten as wouls Laovitebly destey

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.89)
-11-
 cheies. The prepegandiet intended something very
different fron preiee of the Umited States, but the
faet that he premises so mmeh upon a stetememt of the
Presidemt's Seeretery, and the carteon's conception
of e lerge Presidentiel figure dispansing witn the
whele werld in a few brier alioss, sre certaialy
tributee to the power, if not to the politionl eoumen,
Unitedtetes.
Mr. Hod impliee the Dame thine In Aio state-
memt as to the souren of the matariele whion Japan uess
"in borb ms our undofende oities and : the sleucnter
of our innocent people", as well ns in the breeless
eherge thet the meriea: olioy towar re oo anounted
to 'throwine e men int a weil and the dro ping atonee
on his'.
Taking tomrd these bopin conslderations the
attitade tha: pis nrtiole reveals, it ls the convietion
af this writer that it would not be difrioult for him,
e fer emyeme of the minority whom he may be seid to
represest, to find a toleraule besis for egreement with
the Japemese. Heü Hsüen-yü spent eight years in Germemy.
end the profound iapression whien Cerman suscessee on
the cemsiment hes ade on he Cinese aind has Imnt power-
ful impetas to his plans - whiet extend be ond eny
likaly perted fer the Guretion of the ino-Jepeness
Wer - for the susarehiesl orgamimation of Fukion
seememy, and she intreduetion ef Gemmen idees in -
for imssemee - the eduestiomel eystem of the Frovines.
Ber eoald ne covmpy the pesitien wmien be holds at
poeeest in Patden - by wtstever title be mey be knemm -
2

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.87)
-18
his iéees did not heve the et leest teeit sequieseenes
of his saperlare and the support of some et lees: of
his ealleagues, my nore thm the expresslon of his
views on internetionel affairs wiien is enelosed in
this despeteh could mve been printed in Coverment-
and Perty-oontrolled newspapers wi thout no cou ant of
the loeel overmmannd ~.
But oven in Fooahow and Pu ciar viowa suoh as
theee beve selnod  rani macandoney: no  the oll-
tioel life of the rovinee, sü 1a confronted by 
figure of reeter ower wo hen - 1 ourrent rnor at
leeet - been save ml mes on the ver s of oot ng
him, o in his attitude tomr the est, po artiou-
larly tord the nited tates, he 1s  uost: nobly
confronted by the populer rejeotion or his prnjudioee.
Mis artiele, for ins: enee, wms almoet immedintely
fallowed by otharo axprneaing the confttenes  ien 1
geperelly relt  "he jus loe and 1 tegrity of merieen
paliey in the far lest, owever miepleced Mr. Ted and
the Jepenese propa andist mmy feel thet confidenee to
o.
It is respeotfully submitted in coneluding
these commemte the: there 1e in the pinion of this
observer only one oiroumstamee whien could éive generel
aredenee to the point of view whien r. ed represeats,
ar make it e determine:ive of Chimese poliey, end that
would be the evendonmemt in eetion or its treditional
and present poliey 1n Asie by she United States. hms
if Amerise were brougks by emy eensieeretion - however
valie - to rejeet thet peliey, erem if emly 1n semblasse
8

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.93)
-13-
or in some erretic cemporery deviation, the Chinese
might well be puiekly preelpiteted into the eeceptanes
of the viewe of their own Heus as well es of he
dootrines of the Jepensse, and be turned i bitternees
to what the Chinese mind would then regard es the only
recourse of e grest but deperted people: allienos
with Jepen.
Respectfully yours,
Robert. ard
Amerioan Caul
Enolosures:
1. hotostatio oopiss of
Jepenese hendbill.
2. Snglioh trenaletion of
Jepeness handbill.
3. mglion tranoletion of
en enti-foreign
article.
000
hoy
Five copies sent to the De, artment, under cover of
despetoh no. 209, deted Ssptamber 2l, 1 40.
Copy to Eabessy Chungking.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.76)
Bielo.re
自立更生道其實暴
的話意思明白地是
陳恐起來我示遺憾起來了！
之門羅主
加土野心並
羅主義新意義發表後
中遺是鐵亞洲人自行科理
互洲局於理
合乘肚七日
樣的話來依賴性十是以及一直該識者被數行者的人就誠惱
到厭接的時誤偶然說出你們自己的情自己去料理
那種被願的人和一直在小孩子似的數衍着別人的
似的一直數行你下去。
顯著張露骨的是
從什麼時餘遺留下來多
人的眞實
派方
理欧洲人洲
以替别人乘
别人的可以
也會從新再說一
之義發表
歐洲屬於歐
記歐萊氏
半珠互相商
行分配，
表文告稱
歐洲的事通是請歐洲人自行料理亞洲
個新
羅斯
地美然而
天起驚愕
洲人料理
爱英能功
經上通當
想滿足於人的哄小孩子
使
想
及付之實行者乃世界上每洲 洲各觀敗國今半球之知民地處
一國士之意府所欲目睹哈凡那舉行凡美會賤將
文告云追經無干涉歌最後該文提七月
靠之英美法三國
之提對
福洲各國安
支那，政
各國公開
道此等
敗國之
快據該主義
願意為涂方接腰
國政
得不出來講幾句
人急得跳起來
救近火
為不得已時
二歡喜别
其中在腿
亦然
各項對於
見認爲莫
之，關於法
法莫如
提取但
對羅總統之
抵此之靈塵演息謂重虛政權
致云
對於門那上
治上干涉之夫德兩政府
而德牒所言渠所知爲政
渠所言者爲領上所有權轉移事
國所持案如不干歐事則門羅
吻合是巳案間記者詢以德
以對於為主藏之解釋由實施相
則歐亞門羅主義之實施於西半
所欲見者亦其隱爲所應有
至可変還原十時而後已美政府
吉將此領土置管制度下直
力但將邀請洲各定應
美國不作授此項之
法英荷在西牢有定
白求
集識有行解山土間通而非
延各國應各其
表省據
總統與國務仰爾財
總統音口按歐無統用
的協宗工口識萊自謂渠轉述
此為成立開於成置戰敗土學
者發出歐亞應適用門
羅總統秘書歐萊
又羅斯福聲明發表後據昨日
解释見以不
頁
不勝驚愕
美德爲門
，保在
新聞記
的苦問廣堪可憐
巳表明上用之態度他
兩國的崩清並且美國
医政段因為英法
相國以延陽
成人夫的夏然
一
就是故之
不角問的方針司話
點但今的聲明可
国第
聲明給合世界人教
上面美國人納統的
主義與其他門羅土
由於不能認清俱正門羅
言詞有所會是告
外人上 即前非總統之
原方山即然將總統
美國羅總統提倡的
世界門羅主義
他
dit
四维
示福
日
亞洲四經一義盟主日本
林太史
歐洲門羅一卷盟主德
美洲門羅主卷
(鞋
本
德国
美国
盟主美
邱
吉
慶
重
x7

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.93)
 Kobart 8. Ward, Ameriean Consul at Fooehow,
tranamitting handbill and tranalations of handbill
rtiele.
Fanalation of a Propagande Pamphlet dropped by
fepenese planes over eress in southern Pukien during
the firet part of August, 1940.
WHN T N MAMNG OF T
MONROE DOCTRINE
WAS MADE KNOWN
CHUNOYING A BADLY STTED
It reelizen now that the raport that none of
the three countrlee--Ingland, Amerioe, or
France--la willing to sive any gotual heln
to Chungkine wes rellable.
According to a United  rese wire from ashington
dated the 7th (of July,l940), Roosevelt has made publie
a new interpratetion of the Monroe Doctrine. The full
text of the telegram 1s es follows:
"Yesterday evening Roosevelt meda a
deelaration to the effeot that, apeaking
for Ameriea, he hed many times deolared
that that nation had no aggressive designs
on any other country, and he moreover ex-
preesed approval of and assent to the Monroe
Doetrimes of the natione in Europe and Asis.
This deelaration stated that in the re-
division of possessions after the (present)
European War, nothing would be more fitting
then that there should be mutual disous-
siom between the metiems of the partieuler
continemt or hemisphere.
"Speakims offieially for the President,
his seeretery, Mr. Early, announeed the
'Amsriee fer Ameriemms,Darope for Europeens,
and Asie for Asiaties' ides in the phreses
of the following deelarstion:
'Amoriee las abeolutely no
desime to interfore with the ter-
ritories of either of the continents,
Darope
*goe Ratte Balletia No. 241 of Jaly 8, 1940, 100ud
by the Amerienn Gonenlate Generel, meaghal.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
Europe or  sie, and whet the Govern-
mant hopes to witnees, end entrusts
to those who may earry it out, is
nothing other t an the eateblishment
of a "Monroe Doctrine" for each of
the continente of the world. Ameries
does not plan to soquire new terri-
tory, and moreover hes no inelination
to do so. Americs would not, on the
besis of this Dootrine, greb up the
1alands of defeated netions, but it
believes that no way of handling
this type of territoriel question
could be better then that whereby
the queetlon would be settled publioly
by all the nations of the Amorican
continent.s for renoh-controlled
Indo-China, it 1s the Covernment's
opinlon that the best poseible thing
would be for the nations of  sia to
sit down emicebly and examine the
verious proposels concerning thet
aree. The same ap lies to Surope.
"Pinally, the atatement suggested thet
the Pan-Amerioen Conferance should take up
the question of the territorie a in this hémie-
phere of the netions defeeted in the Europeen
er.
Another euter messege on this subjeet followe:
"Early, :resident Roosevelt's seeretary,
yesterday savs newspapermen s statement to the
effeet thet Europe and Asie ahould put Monros
Dootrines into precticel effect, and thet
such a Dootrine should be used as the instru-
ment for achieving an egreement as to how to
handle the territoriml possessions of the
countries defeated in the present wmr. Marly
stated that he was tranamitting the President's
opinion. According to this statement of
Early's, it wao after the disoussion between
the President end Seeretery of State Hull on
the question of the exehangs of eomunieations
between the United States and Germany in
explanation of the Monree Doetrime that the
opinion was expressed. Early said that the
President felt that on sech continemt the
several countries of that continent should
hold conferenees within their cwn separets
areas end on their own motion deside queetions
of sovereignty, end thet the matter was not
one in whien the vistorious nation should
assegate to isselr the suthority to deside.
terkes od Helland, Pranee and Eagland in the
now wesld: in sseh e ense Ameriee certainly
a alave, bet would iavite the severel nasions
these territeriee should not be plecsd unées

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
the control of a provisional syatem until
such time ms they might be returmed to their
original sovereigns. what Amorios desires
to see, and what it regerds es necessary,
1s the realization of Monroe Dootrines in
Europe and Asis, a development whioh would
be in accord with the interpretation and the
ectual prsctiee of the dootrine in the estern
Hemiophere.
A certein reporter esked ebout Germeny's
contentlon that the Konros Dootrine would
only heve effeot if Ameriom would not inter-
fere in the effeire of Europe. Eerly replied
that he hed been talking ebout the uestion
of the chenge in sovereignties over territories,
while the Cerman despetch wme talking. ss fer
as he knew, about oliticel interferenoe. To
aay the same thin in different worde, the
interpretations plsced upon the Monroe Jootrine
by the American end Cerman Covernments were
not the same.
After the nnounoement by Roosevelt of
his decleration, reports ave elso reeched
here fron Chungking to the effeot that the
powers thet be in that sity could not have
been more startled than by Roosevelt's worde.
Chungking quarters ave evidently misunder-
stood  resfent Roosevelt's words. The
President's ecretery, Mr. Early, eleo steted
to the press that it wes evident that persons
outaide of the country misunderstood the
President's worde. Thie misunderatanding
srose entirely, he seid, fro: the failure to
understend olearly the differencs between the
true Monroe Dootrine and the other 'Monroe
Dootrinea'"
The above statement by the Preeident of the United
States startled the whole world. Ameriea's attitude
hed previoualy been e question mark, and had veccme a
point of interest for the eyes of every eountry of the
werld. But this present stetement makes it eleer that
Amelee will not enter the Europeen Wer, and moreover
she has by it proelaimed a pelley of indifferenes to
East Asian affairs. To express the seme thing in
diffarens werds, she will allew the affairs of sonti-
nental Europe to be handled by the vietors in the
Eavepean War, Germany and Italy; the affairs of Asia
she will allew to be handled by the leeder or the Far
Bastern Leagme, Japen, emd Amerien will not interfere.
For instamse, with referemee to è question sueh as
that ef the disposition of Trench Indo-Chine and the
Datah Mst Imdies, it could be said that Ameriee had
alreedy emmouneed a 'hands-off' peliey. mis beins
the eass, 1s is hardly nessssary to say that England.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.91)
with the greatest poesible peril, end no one knows
whether 1ts government will not soon flee to Cem de
on tho Amerioan continent; 1ts prestige and influanes
in the Far Eest is falling lower and lower every day.
The desoletion of the Chungking officlals, who rely
entirely on forsign nations to keep on breething yet
awhile--s deeolation whion they suffer becaume of the
collepse of England end Frenee and the above-quoted
deeleration or Amerien's et:itude--is truly pitiable.
[The cartoon  the reveree deplote s figure
Labeled Roosevelt cuttine the world into three slices,
while one representing Churo ill olings to his coat-
teils, end two others, one being thrown into the sir
and the other running awsy, represent reepectively
Stolin and Chiang 'ai-shek. The title reade:]
TEOLDFOEOCINE
ADVOCTY IONCOVLT OF
TSNTEDTATES
The Asiatic Monroe Doetrine....Controlline state: Japen.
The merican Monros octrine...Controlling stete: merice.
The Europeen Monroe Dootrine...Co trolling atete: Cermany.
Th6

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.95)
(The following artiele appears in a 'box' on the feee
of the hendbill.
THE SINCERE COOD INTINTIONS OF THE PEOPLE
OF THE
AMERICAN CONTINENT
Many people do not know from what eerlier time
there have come down to us many evil treits. Among
these traits those which are at preuent the most
evident end whose bones stiek out the most are: (1)
the vain hope of being able to rely on someone slse.
end (z) the liking to heve other people baby you along
with nothing but empty phreses
Becsuse of this, when the time comes thet the
person who is being relied on and who ia kidding the
beby slone with worthlese telt begine to feel a little
weary of the game and suddenly says, "You so aheed
and menage your own effeirs," neturelly the pereon
who 1s more then l00% dependent and who hae allowed
himself to be kidded along with empty coexing 1e
truly terrified end truly afreid, and expresees his
remorse!
As en instance, this time when Roosevelt's private
seeretary ected es the President's representative and
spoke e few sentenees on the subject or the Monros
Doetrine, his ides was perfeetly elear. It wes this:
The people of the European continent were esked to
manage the effairs of that continent; the people of
the Asietic continent were esked to menege the affeirs
of the Asietio oontinent.
Independence and n renewed life: thess actumlly
are unelterable prinoiples, yet the English were so
distressed they jumped up and down, and the Chiness
were so distressed thet they cried aloud. The cries
of the wronged filled the highways, end Hull wes foroed
to say e few worts, but those few words were truly
stupid.
It 1s possible that Roosevelt himself mey egein
say a few mentenoes, to the effect thet Amerion's
poliey is uneltered!
In shat way, 1t will be possible for those who
dreem ialy of relying on other peeple to go on dreaming
idly, and those who are ecatented with being scexed
along like children ené with hearing empty phreses,
esn perversely ceatinue to listen to other people tell
them to se on riskins their lives, with the ldee that
when thinge have come se e pese wheze they can't carry
en aay fuether, the Amesieane will yet come ous to
centrel Asie end mmge the affaire of Asiaties.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.90)
-8-
But neverthelese the "reneh heve already been
aheeted by the so-cslled 'no change in poliey'!
Distent weters will not queneh the nearby fire, end
moreover they (the Americane) mede no heste, but
came too late and hemmed end hawed, ending up with
en expression of love but an sdmission thet they hed
no ebllity to sssist. nd not only thet, but without
any regard for the preatigs of e greet nation, they
recognized something celled the 'ronel. Government
beyond the eees', and the' wan the cnd of the metter!
In my opi ion, the statement thst Suropeane mhould
manege Europeen effaira, and siatics ahould manage
Asietie affeire is the conuine expres ion of the reel
end trustworthy ' ood intention' of merioans.
Dd
Trens. by
Co, 1ed by hoy

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.83)
are no. 3 to deapatoh no. 177, dated Septembes 21,
, from Robert . Mard, Ameriean Conpul at Fesemow
ns, tranmmitting handbill and trenaletions of handbill
nd artiele.
MAR ZANO JIH YAQ
(Edition of Lugnst 29, 1940.)
THE MORALS OF BRS ENT DAY DIPLOMATO
by Hoü Kedeh-yă
The five thousand year-old oulture of Chima oryetallised
around benevolemce, ricnteoueness, prepriety, wisdon, and truthful-
ness es stendardsof morolity. Not only were these five abstrest
expressions used in judemant upon the standing of men in their
relations with one unother, but even as batween nations, they were
taken s the standards in the oarrying on of negotiations with the
outeide world. Thus we still constantly uee proverbs from the Book
of roetry asd she sayings of Confueius, such as "How is it pocsible
to speak with these who are not benevolent?." and "I do not know
how a mam without truthfulnesr can funetion"* as our suthorisy
whem in anger we eurse anyone. And the one sentemee, "If one's
warés are eimsere and trutaful, and one's setioms honorable and
earefal, cme's eenduet will be seceptable even asong the barbariens
of the sowth or the wild tribes of the North", formed the philosophy
mhieh eaatrolled our behsviour as a sreet country.
Fereigmess ere very fomd of Chinese sulture, and they partieu-
Lerly love Chimese ouries. No matter how new or in what good teste
or bow modera the house he lives in may be, every fereigmer we hes
ever eme to Chime er who li vee in Chine ls sure to have set eut n
alaplay e the tap as the piano in hie livins reem or on the bis
Aamer table la héa díains reon, a fow Chinase curies, sush ae heease
Deé mees foreégmere are wealstarienss en top of enjeging a taínd,
thay s t   e s a 1s n wel. en h hige 1s
eurles, they mas to teen the weelese te seme wearl perpese. wy
a lse ming es the ate the se of h a te te 
sepelleme

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.86)
一8一
repellest as it would be to mee a person dreseed in westerm olothing
wearing a hat made from the secoped-out rind of a watarmelon.
This is the way foreigmers emjoy Chinese ourios: it is the
same with their enjoyment of Chinsse culture, espseielly of that
part of it whieh comprises the standards of Chimese morality. They
feel that the defimitiome of the five chsractere for hememlepee.
rsatecusess, prgpriety, peson, and trathtulnas are very sice-
soumding but of no prestioal uee in the ourrent of present day
world thought or es applied to their omn nationel sharasteristies
or the sustems of their people. That being the case, they fit a
parehment lamp-shmde over seoh one of these charesters. This lemp-
abade is preeleely the cheracter "7." - mot." When they have sueh
sbedes fitted over these characters, they again heve that feeling
of having hit an something new, fresk, and original but which is
of the grestest prestieel use. And thus the oulture of the western-
ore expands day by day, ond in the managesent of their foreign re-
latiome they have dimeovered in this kind of utilitarianiem e mateh-
less gateway to the Wheel of Eternal Lew!
Everyome knowe that over p0s of the materials whien our eneny
wes in bombing our undefonded olties and in the aleughter of our
inmosent people comes from Amerion. Three years ago, et the time
when the hostilities broke out, the Amsriosn authorities, aoting
fron a humanitarien standpoint, iasued a promounoement sensuring
our emsmy. but the materiels essentiel to that enemy, Americe som-
timued to mupply him as before in an wnoeasing flow.
Thue thinge wont on for a period of over two yeare, until it
began to be felt that Amerleen lives mnd Amerioam property in China
ware also suffering great losaes end injury at the hends of that
enemy usins Se materials Ameriea hed supplied him. Only then did
the so-ealled "moral enbergo" stert. American merehante, meting
like a bumeh of prostitutes, and motivated by the iden that if one
hes memey, ome beeomss a gemtlenan, did everything in their power
to ship gasolime, irem, meshisss, and similar types of military
mesessities to Yokshame md Kabe, to supply the ememy with the
materials fer the comstrustion of eeroplanes and bembe with whick
to alaughter the peeple of Chime and to destrey Chinese eities;
this they hurried to do before they should be prevented from carry-
ins em this trede by their em matiomal law.
them the Memem werakipping Amerieens aw the yellow gold
flowing in e steady stremm late their metiomal treesury, they were
ee oreseeme with jey thas they eould net brins their lipe together.
at the me téme, in erdee te preelate the valwe of the Thinese
antiqus, so te speak, thay come feseare wtà falee compessien and
Zalse ayapathy to yoé an mn nes oalled the "Bonh of Rsee Novesont"
to cave Cainese refegees. The oubtlaty of this ltee in the fast
thas whsle the wede are disferens, the tane la amestly the e
as was Chenberlaia's when, after hevins meted fer deecheslevakie
In laveveesbly gáváne to the Dadetanland, he loanel Bénee ten
milllan taglsah pounde in the hape that that aiake Lossen the
they thsns to beceme alse the makere of armeur agatnst these
8
.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.87)
3
arrows; havins pleyed the bleek magieiens, they think now to be
the cofrim-makers. This is preoisely the fereism poliey of pleeing
the 7. "not" - carefully over the (= - "bemevolent".
When Churuhill, acceding to our enemy's demends, elosed the
Burms roed, he anevered the questioming of a member in Parliement
by saying that he had taken that step in the hope that the Sino-
Japanese hostilities sould be brought to a olose within three
months, and partisularly in the hope that thereby Chime might se-
oure an independent, fres, and honorable pesse. This type of false
benevolenee and falee righteonsnese is e partieularly eleer mani-
festatiom of the cheap triekery of the poliey of non-benevolenee
and non-righteouoness.
When the Anglo-Frenen Allianee was formed, Chamberlein and
Daledier, plasing their interosts in the inseparable umion which
was to join them in life and in dooth, made suoh talk of these
thinge as to shatter the heevene and shake the earth. Xven Roosevelt,
from the safety of the other side of the ocean, eame out like an
ouhe from an empty valley, ueing sueh fine phrases es "defend the
dempereeles", mnd "aid for the Allies" as Ligh-sounding banalities
to be breadeast by redio. When Germany invaded the territory of
Fronse, England dempatehed the amallest possible contingent of her
anmy to anter the war on the sontinent. meries, moreover, was
actually engaged in trying to figure out how to sell off mll her
old and ueeloss tanke, meroplanes, wnr vessels, end so forth, to
Franoe.
Frenoe had no reserves at the front and no resoue troope in
the rear. Left slone and respomsible for the whole front herself.
she had more than she could take. How then was she so make out
when tussolimi, taking adventage of her peril, etteeked her on the
flank? In the time of erisis, Reynaud issued a desperate final
appeal for Amsrieen aie: from the White House Reosevelt replied
with fervent gemeresity that he would do everything in his power
to help, but after Faris hed fellen, the kmerieme Covermment im-
mediately eame ferwerd with em urgemt order forbidding the ex-
temsies of eredits to Prmmse.
When things had come to the poins at which Petsin formed a
cabimet and surresdered to Garmany, Churekill eame forward with
thundereesly meble expreseione with waiek te fix the blame en
Frease for hevims failed te heep her were. At the seme time the
lerge flees ef British planos want inte astica; the Britimk fleet
aleo went Late eetien, and tegether they eaptured the Premch fleet.
For Eagland to do thie wee to betrey a friend for her peraesel
entn, but for Amsriee te do as ahe dsd wes ovem more sleerly to
threw a nem tate a well ad thea drep stonse on hin.
sisse meglene hed breken faità, Fetain ested without sentiment,
ané he tee cane eue with the one line, blanine agland, and pre
eladmed the hreakiae err of diplanasde relats ons between then. They
ware lihe te aheapotoaged ald wmen as the villege, sereaning
ahesee at eech othee la the aiacle af the street, fréende yesteday
and anandee todag. Traly 1s ta hand to hmew thother to Langh or
anyé 2s Ia ovddaany dase beth hed veally oughé each othersa

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.88)
一
their present pass, one sannot but say thet unrighteousness has
bees rowurded.
At the time that our war of resistanoe broke out, Italy des-
patebed a sortain Tu Wo-ch's" to serve ms her Ambeasador to Chine.
As soon as he arrived in Shenghal ho issved a stetement to the
sffest that to would presently procced to the capital to present
his letters of credenee, but es a matter of aotual fast, he bes not
done so to this day. Almost thres years have mow pessed, and this
Ambassmdor has not reported his arrival to our eapitel. Nor hes
Mumsolini made any inquirios ns to the condust of an Ambassader so
negleetful of his duties. Certainly there must be a taeit under-
stending**!
Umoxpeotedly this ineident was not without its counterpart.
After our Ambaesedor to Cermany, Ch'en Chieh, resohed thet country.
he reported his arrivel to the German Minietry for Poreigm ffaire,
and a day was set for him to present his lettere of oredenee. But
Mitler continually postponed the dey, delaying his reception, like
the host at a banquet who alosed his doors and would not reseive
bis gueats! Bmsieally, however, they are not to be blamed for
this kind of baheviour. Just at thet time both useolini and
Mitler were in the midst of making love to Japan, and moreover
their advemees hed become as hot as fire. esing that their love
whs about to be mohioved, they could not but put forth the utmost
exortion for the cood of their "loved one". "or whet reason would
they be polite to an owtsider who had no reletion whetever to them
but who was an smemy of their "beloved"? to be given a cold slanse
frow the "beloved's" eye row the standpoint of the utilitarian,
this attitude is a part of huaman n ture, and is not in anyway ex-
ceptional. But in the eyes of the people of the 'nation of pro-
priety and rightecusness', it will elways soem as if there were
something on te, of the word for 'propriety' (as it is used sbroad)
that eaanos be talired away.
Arter the sigmature of the Vereailles Treety, Pranee wes in
full peescsstem of tie power to usurp the coatrol of Burope, and
the Taglish falt that they had got rid of the German robber only
te emshenge him fer e dengeroualy powerful neighber in the form
of Franse. Thie was sertainly not a pleasrnt prospect, and they
therefore theught to wake wee of the eausee nnd afreste of the
impleesble emmity beteeen Germany md Frense to brime the two to
maistain themeelves es ememies of equml strength set arf against
eact ether. Therefore on the ome nand England essisted Germany
in straigtemins eut her surremey, and tneitly sssemted to the imerease
in Germam armemense, while on the other she entieed Franee inte serv-
ing es the resr-guerd of her foreism yelisies.
Mam Hialer appeered en the seene, with eppesd tom te Rusate
m toe Cammmim a als alegeme, the situesion sesorded more then
ever with the desires of Englemd's heart. Gayitalist Anglane had
frem she begimming regaréed Oemmumims Nussta as a nail drivem inte
her eye; mew Gesmeny wee imereasing her nilstery satebllebmees for
defense cpniast Runate and eppesitéon to Communian and Eagland ould
then aoe only not bave to put ferth her oum strongth, but could
gresteusly diepense the pamerese emeeer of emether. meturelly ahe
we

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.90)
waited emgerly for the outbrook or the fire that would result
from the meeting of Geroony end Mussie. She herself sould wateh
with csthetie satisfestion the glering brightnoss of the flames
from her position on the mountain top.
But she waited a long time, and the Rueso-Oerman fire had
not broken out. Woreover, Englend wes finding 'the colamees of
lofty heights umbeareble', so she again thought to make nse of
Franee ee her venguard, and efter it beoame elear that no fire
was going so breek out between Cermeny nnd Russte, to wee Russie
as e meane of involving Germany. talin was not willing to be
cheated by this muwe, and moreover joined with itler in a combi-
mation in which fire mnd water were made to mix. when the Fusso-
Cerman Treaty was prooleimed, Chemberlein was so st-rtled thet he
didn't even have the energy to pick up his umbrelle! England,
resognized for her clevermess in foreign affeirs, hed had the
tables turned on her wompletely by telin and Mitler. It may be
snid that Englend's stupids ty wes so groet that it will never be
surpessed!
As for her present compromises with Jmpen - such as in
Tientsin on the silver question, in Shanghei on the land uestion,
and in the elosing of the turme ond - they may be reparded es the
servile notions of a pervon who is dependent for is existense on
the goodwill of amother. But what will he the rosult of these
aetione? Churehill is followin: Chamberlein's old precedent of
seerifieing Cseehonlewakie for the sake of nppensement, and ooch
time thie wmwise polioy is used. the resylts sre woree than the
time before.
In the mind'e eye of e diplommt the word truthfulness simply
doee not exist. Nothing hinders e diplomat from ssying ne thing
now and doing someshing mntirely different when the time comee to
give efreet to his statenente. Chamberlain and Churchill heve
contimumlly imeved statements to the offeat that the poliey toward
Thime has mot ehaaged, wheress their metions have in cech case been
takem to meet Japanese demands. When Ritler wished to seise the
Sedetan territory, he geve hamberlein his guerenteo that he de-
finitely did not plan to destroy Ssechoslovakia, but after he had
Incerporeted the sudetenlmmd, he followed it with the destruotion
of Cmeehoelevakie. Mitler and stalin were cursing eeeh other as
if it were e ease of "if I m to be, you eannot exist: if you are
to be, I eammot exist", and in the time that it takes one to drop
ome's eyes, the twe hed gotten together to drink chempegne and
out up Polond. Te aiplemat's werds and cctiome are emetly con-
tresy eme to the ether, wherefore mati mal good faith is dragged
sa the airt.
Our ememy pesterme hinself is everything cn western xodels,
and ale ferelga pelley em maturally met shake orr the western
menmee. the ememy regesés evesy drop of extre spittle fron the
mouth of a meetesm diplemat es a thine of greet value, and he will
either eher it very eerefally, or swallow it outright. The war
hes now gome ee through three yeare, and fres Tonoye we have eame
besk egain te Kenepes the takumen, the warighteene, the izproper,
the wndee, ad the watautaal cete ot the aeny have been tee
snnssene to count; nee cnly hee Tapen trested Chine ln thls wise,
bee the hee aated tn the oame way tomeed ather countrdan. the

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.89)
weed aa a Lap-otand as aa aatsgue of arens vekuo, whenee a perem
enly pesdssss an amatural menstresity, but is the mest cbessme
blesphemy.
Cur esreplanss heve flom over the ememy's eapital but ia
astual feet they dropped, not bombs devoid of aay kuman message.
but hamdbills full of the epirit of benevolense, righteousness,
preyriety, wiedom, and truthfulzese. Xe have aleo taken meny
prisomers, but we not only do not send thes to a consentretion
semp or e priean, but we permit them crdinary elothes and food,
with eggs and ahieken on the side, and allow them to see moving
pietures and plays.
When in the midale of our wor of reeistanee Cermany withdrew
her military advisors, and Italy supplied Japan with maps of plame
assembly plaste, we not only did not publiet the sirewmstenees of
their crimes, but we did not even lodge a single pretest against
them. This was not at all booauae we were ti id, but wae in feet
beceuse we were wwilling to raieo too any enewles against oure
selves. From the cutbreak of the wer on 7-9, we bave contimued
without a break the payments on the rinei, al and interest of our
foreien loans; fron the teginniny to te ond we ave meintained
our credit: the netual fucts are stronger tran te strongeet argu-
mont. From these thiuge it may be seen tuat our foreign poliey
is in the final analyeis difrerent from that of the othere: even
in the darkmees the true colors of this antique flasn out in all
diroctlones like reys of brilliant light, but when tiey strike the
eye lids of the foroigner, he will only feel thet it would be
better ir = lmap-ahede were fitted over it. Without sush a shade,
it's only a decorative object, without any preetieal usel
I'resemt-day diplomts, putting on their un-bemevolent, un-
rigatoous, un-decerous, un-wise, and un-truthrul mst, have brought
on the present-day wars, and have enveloped the whole world in the
druged fumes of pestilential vapors. The nesvems have beem shromm
domm nd the eurth turped over. Countries defeated in the present
wars will certeinly be unable to lift up their heads, while those
who are viotorious in them will also be sunk deep in the mire.
Ravims reseived this lesson, the whole lot ef present day
di lomete, prieing themselves as they do on beime artreordinary
people, should tura over a new leef, realise their pest zistakes.
and understeed that a poliey of non-bemevolense, men-righteous-
ness, nom-yropriety, mom-wisdon end non-truthrulmems ean only
harm others end harm theseelves and tist it eam mever have any
cood result. Is the pest we : ave aiwme to the steméards of be-
mevolemee, righmeousmess, prepriety, wisdon sad trutafulmess in
our treatment ef all the ue-bemevelest, ua-righteous, un-decorous.
un-wiee and umotrathral utiliteriaas, and although we have aaay
times suffered lese on that eesouat, still, if the whole werld
Ls not to be destreyed, and is kanan wáaden ia not to be utterly
lest, the riaal vietery ls eertaia te be ours. The parakment
the Smage of Dudshe hae regetesd ste lustrens beauty.
No have make the rive virtese the foundet n of our state,
a

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.87)
and we cennot ehonge. Sor sen wo, beoause other ecuntries gain
cheap eávantages by using mon-benovolant, unrighteous, impreper,
wawiee, aad uatruthful mathods, leern foa then their evil maye.
reaklesaly addins some monstroaity to o valumble thing of eld
times in ordor to palm it off as a ploce of modorm furniture.
The Leader has weid, "with unohmnging conm tany will we
meet the tem thousend chengee". We need only follow sererully
this olear maxim, and in the mot-distant future the matlons of
the world will o' neeessity, throwgh a thouaand changes and tem
thoumand metamorphoses, somw to sutait themselves to or can
unohengins consteney, and in this consteney the "eder tion of
the World will ave found its point of arigin.
Treaeleted:
G2e ked: Y
Typed: awe

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
WAR DEPART:ENT
FE
TAP DEPARTENT GENERAL STAFF
I.IL ITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, G-2
TASHIIGTON, D.C.
MAY 2: 1941
" ay 26, 1941
MR. BERLE
Subject:
Letter of transrittal.
To:
The Honorable A. . rle, Jr.
Department of State
The attached communications are forwarded for your
894.00293
information and such action as you consider advisable.
41
894.20293/28
inites
Vt
SIERMAN MILES,
Brigadier General, U. S. Army,
Leting Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
Deportment of Sto
2
Enclosures:
G2/9944-H-37/1 - Cpy of : 1) Summ. of Info. re Suspected Espionage Agents
in Tsingrao, Chim: dt: 5/24/41.
G2/2801-445/143 - Cpy of ID Sunm. of Info. re FRITZ HETBERLING, 3240
JUN 1 9 1941
Warner Avenue, Chicago, 1: dtd 5/15/41.
ED
DEEED
E.O. 1.
ACIIVITY
474
QSD Iy 3. 1572
PS
MAY 27 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
/BJH
D
mle
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
NFIDENTIAL
WAR DEPARTMENT
M. I. D.
May 24, 1941
(Date)
Subject: Suspeoted Espionage Agents in Tsingtes, China
Summary of Information:
A reliable source in Tsingtao has furnished this
Division with the attached list of espionage suspects. The
campiler states "A great deal of care has been exercised in
cempiling the list, and it is believed to be practically
complete."
The Japanese espionage organisation methods listed
are of particular interest.
Evaluation
Distribution:
-of source
-of information
..I.
Credible.
Questionable.
Undetermined
CONFIDENTIAL
16—17097
GPO

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.85)
QENDARNBRIE
The Japamese Military Gendarmerie headquarters in Teiagtao.
Leeated in the old Tung Lai Bank Building on Buman Meed, is the official
fear dealiag uait in Tsingtao. This organisation acts en amonymous
arrests and investigating later, in the meantime thoroughly torturing
the vietims. This orgasisation is also responsible for the Russian
Amti-Communistie Committee which regiments the local vhite Rassiams.
Frequently mction is taken against Russians and other immigrants but
in semeral other foreigmers are not molested. In commection with this
organisation the following men operate:
Hiekove.
Chief, rank of Major
Kematou
In charge of Chinese intelligence.
NE
Vakanoto
In charge of Joreign intelligence.
Bagasave
In chargs of Poreign intelligence.
NB
Voomeda
Korean, lived formerly in Chicago
and speaks Eaglish fluently.
Many Chinese are employed in minor capacities, especially as informers.
ABMX
The Japanese Army maintains another intelligence group in
Teingtao known as the Seki Detachment (
). Seki operates from
an office on Pacific Road and handles all permits for rail and plane
transportation from Tsingtae.
LADX
The Japanese Eavy headquarters maintais tvo greups is Teingtao
leeated en Ta Bsui Bead and Shan No Road. The Mavy group operate more
carefully as esmpered with the Army Gendarmerio, ueuelly making careful
investigation bedere arrests. Great stress is placed en fereigmers in
geaeral in Tsingtao und partieular interest is placed in the American
Bavy each swmmer. The men employed in thie work are:
Oceda
Offisial Intelligemoe Officer.
Datoh
Partioularly assigmed to Ameriean Mavy Work.
hisidn
Partieularly assigmed to Eassian affairs in
Teingtee. Ée speaks flweat Rassiun.
michi
Telegraph censor. Permerly resident in U.S.A.
Omak1
Passpert saspeeter ea shipe.
Besaki
Foreiga visa offioer.
Kang Veaming'
Gainese fermerly empleyed by the Tee Tsoong
Tobeose Co., Tsingtee.
Li Nsiasting
CGaimese fermerly empleyed by cetton mills.
Shen Po1ohun
Chinese kmewm as Thempsen, represezting him-
self as a taller and making eeatect with
Amerieen Eavy vessels.
YARIOST MEERR
Oa seseant of Amerleas Navy Ial 1sted Nen patreaigias variens
eafee Sa the esw, asffere hee been make by the Japanese Areg aad Bevy to
have ageate le the cortate plesse. She dapasese Lray have mle arange
mate usen the Sellotuge
1
1

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.92)
The Tower
Hans Geschke, German, is in close co-
operation with the Japanese Army. A
Japanese intelligence officer worked im
the club as a boy during the entire summer.
Dreamland Cafe
This establishment is in close cooperation
with the Japanese Army. A Japanese intel-
ligeace officer worked in the olub as a boy
during the entire summer.
The Japanese have arrangements with the following:
Jittorbug Cafe
This is operated by Daisy Adams who slaime
to have an American passport. She is known
also by her Japanese name of Ao Maki (
). Ber place is at No. 4 Lanshan Road.
She was formerly in Hankow.
Lambeth Club
This place includes a Russian known as Billi-
ski who is working for she Japanese Havy in-
telligence service.
In addition to the above various firms and individuals have been enlisted
by the Japanese Army and Mavy end they are as follows:
Takeshita Real
Located on Fei Hsien Road is long known as a
Bstate Company
epot of Japanese navy intelligence. Prior
to the ino1dent in 1937 they were the center
of activities. Mr. D. Takeshita and Mr.
Fukuoka are the Japanese membere. Mr. V.N.
Landesan, a Latvian, is very active in con-
meotion with the foreign community of Tsingtao.
Operating with this firm is Mr. P. Memfakofí.
Eassian (mow Chinese eitisen) formerly flying
instructor for Admiral Mhen Eung-lieh's navy.
Alse W. Tourieff, Massian (mow claiming French
Citisenship) related to Fremeh Consular Agent
in Tsiagtao, and employed in the French Con-
sular Agency.
Geerge Kusmenko
Russias Barber in the International Club is
acting for the Japanese Army iztelligence
through the Lati-Commaniatio Committee.
Britieh Consulate Itr. Liang (
) 1e the shief ageat 1n
stafr
She British Consalate operating fer the
Japanese Army.
Ameriean Consukée r. L aad .  are required to send re-
staff
perté to the Japasese Army.
Ito Emport Gompany Nr. I. Ito (
). eperating en Shantung
Read is lesal civiliam ageat for the Japanese
Aray and is the equivalent of Takeskita Real
Retate Gempany fer the Japamose Navy.
1.Y.W1(
Werke fer the Japasese Navy and the Aeta
Affaire Beard. Prebably hán cesmsstien is for
pretestien perpeses fer his preperty and vith
a viow to bosng abse to os a mood jod as a
a date is Borth Chtne so bted.
3.P.(

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.91)
formerly employed by the police is msting
for the Japanese Army.
K.C. Fuen (
) Employed by the Polosu Theater is an impor-
tant Japanese Army agent.
D.P. Li (
) Long emplo, ee of the Texas Company and the
mainstay of their office is in the Japanese
Army employ. He has been imtimidated into
the position by the Army in order to get in-
formation concerning the firm's operatione.
F.C. Pen (
) Locountant with the Standard Vaouum Oil Com-
pany has likewise been taken over by the
Asia Affairs Board.
Y.8. Keh (
) Installation manager for the Asiatic Potro-
leum Company has been taken in by the Asia
Affairs Board.
Kinakova (
) Officially recognised in the Tee Tecong
Tobacco Co. Distributors, Japanese Army Agent.
Kavasaki (
Officially placed in she Yee Teoong Tobacco
Co. by the Japanese Bavy.
L. Peigelman
This man arrived in Tsingtao recently from
Shanghai where he is employed by the Union
Steamship Agency, a Soviet organization. He
is a Soviet oitisen and carrios a Red passport.
He put up at the Teingtao Hotel, a Japanese
Army hostelry. He has been investigating
various foreign individuals, asking many ques-
tions, assertaining methods of finance (both
legal and black market) and has been in con-
ference with Japanese Army representatives.
It is said that he is working for the Russian
Gestapo as well as the Japanese intel ligence.
He is expected to return to Shanghai before
the end of February.
J. Bekamara () This man has been for years intimate with for-
eigners in Tsingtao and serves the Japanese
Mavy and Army groups. He is a councilor on
the local puppet geverament. He is represent-
ing the Japamese investmeat ia Teingtao's
daily newepaper, "The Shamtung Daily Neve".
K. Berman and
Berman is manager asd Yao is compradere fer
2. Ygo
Bohr Nathew & Co., Ltd., British egg morehants
in Tstagtae. Berman is umder suspicien for
hie fregueat movements to Shanghel and Peking.
Le ie Jewish and hie wife has relatives in
Germany. Daring the 1937 exotus of Chinese
military from Teiagtao Berman wes very aetive
endesvering to preveat destruction of Japasese
property around his busiaess premise. Siase
thas sime he has seld his home en Pu Shan Read
te Japamese estensibly em eeseunt of the eitus-
tion, but probably en aeseunt of the constrse-
tiem ef an ammemtoten cump in the hillatde be-
hind hte home. It lo pesetble that Beeman ia
aloe nessng aa bahals as the Geonne ta lonal
Latellleee wesk, véth respeet to ether feselee

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
mombere of the sommumity. Yao appears
to be very intimate with Berman mnd has
prospered considerably usder the Japanose
regime, whick would appear to be comtrary
to what one would expeot of a man of his
station.
B. moller
This wan is employed with the firm of Carlo-
wits & Co. Ho is the appointed intelligence
agont of the local Masi group and is in
familiar comtact with various Japanese intelli-
gence individuale. Mueller paye unnecessary
attention to United States Savy datails and
moroments when those shipe are in port.
Pebruary 35, 1941

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 18.
Chungking, June 9, 1941
Subject:
Japanese Propaganda in relation
to United States.
DIVESION OF
Air mail
PPARYIYOF STATL
112304
DEPARTMENY OF STATE
DIV. OF
JUL : 1941
894.0293
swn
(ra)
PR
MID
C3
2
6
2
COPIE : SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
274
Hondrable
PS/ VHTILED
The Secretary of State,
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
Washington, D. C.
JUCDI 1941
DIVISIONOF
Sir:
As of probable interest to the Department, I
of a leaflet which is said to have been dropped
from a Japanese plane over Chengtu, Szeohuan, about
three weeks ago. The leaflet was made available to
the Embassy for scrutiny by the looal British Consu-
late Genoral to which it was forwarded by a British
subject in Chengtu. It is regretted that a copy of
the leaflet is not available for transmittal to the
Department.
The leaflet, which is of course published in
Cuential File
the Chinese language, is printed on a poor grade of
white newsprint, the dimensions being approximately
8" x l2". One side of the leaflet is devoted to a
photograph of what is desoribed in the caption as
an inner view of an American military aviation manu-
facturing establishment in whioh work is desoribed
as

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
as ourrently suspended owing to labor diffioulties.
There is also printed as an inset a small-sized
photograph of Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh. It is
amusing to note from a close scrutiny of the photo-
graph that men are shown to be at work in the plant
notwithstanding the misleading caption.
Overleaf there are published a series of news
items and one special article. The news items
summarize recent addresses delivered by ex-President
Hoover and Colonel Lindbergh urging a policy of
American non-intervention and describe in some detail
the allegedly serious nature of the industrial strikes
in the United States. The special article is devoted
to a commentary on the reportedly damaging efrects of
industrial strikes on the output of war materials in
the United States and on the so-called desire of the
American people to remair aloof from the conflicts of
Europe and Asia. The special article then attempts to
draw the conclusions (1 that the United States is not
in a position to supply war materials to China because
of labor troubles and (2 that the United States cannot
be expected actively to aid China because of what is
termed the predominant spirit of isolationism and non-
intervention among: the American neople.
The leaflet is, of course, calculated to persuade
the Chinese people of the inability and the unwilling-
ness of the American peonle and Government to aid China.
It smacks of the type of pronaganda that Hitler might
be expected·to use in subjugating his enemies. But it
is almost certain that the people of China are not
likely to be misled by propaganda of this nature,
especially at a time when there are growing signs of
concrete American assistance to china.
Respectfully yours,
12
C. E. Gauss
Original and two copies to the Department by air mail
Two copies by air mail to Hong Kong
Copy to Peiping
Copy to Tokyo
710
EFD:MCL

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 20, 1941.
JD
WA
Chungking's despatch no. 137, September 15,
1941.
In an interview with Mr. Belechenko, a
Russian refugee and teacner at the Chinese
Military Staff College at Tsunyi, the Embassy
was informed that:
Both civil and military officials at the
College are encountering difficulties due to
the low compensation paid them. The dissatis-
faction among the officials due to their
financial plight 1s well known to the Japanese
who through secret agents offer free transpor-
tation to Nanking and positions at much higher
salaries. Persons who have no independent
income and who are not in a position to make
money through graft are the most dissatisfied
and susceptible. The situation is a constant
worry to the officials who do not want the
conditions to become generally known.
The Central overnment 1s playing into
the hands of the Nanking agents in allowing
favoritism, graft, inefficiency and lack of
discipline to go unchecked, and there is the
possibility that the movement to join the
Nanking

=== Page 39 === (confidence 1.00)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
Nanking forces may increase and become a
serious threat to the overnment.
The Embassy comments that it is not
in a position to verify or investigate the
conditions which Mr. Belechenko has
described.
FE:Fales:NHS

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 137
Am-ricen -mbassy, Chungking
CONFIDENTIAL
bub ject:
rensmitting Memorandum regard-
ing ubversive nctivities of
Air Mail.
Nankin agents in Unoccupied
China
894.20293/30
Department of State
9410C 1 2
MID aftr ONI
C
1941
HAPARTMINT OF STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
washington, .C.
OCT
FILED
P
Sir:
Kwsichouw
3
S
/BJH
I have the honor to transmit herewith as of possible
1/
interest to the vepartment a copy of a memorandum of a co
versation between Mr. Belechenko, an instructor at the Mi-
tary Staff College at Tsunyi, and Second Secretary Macdonald
of this mbassy regarding subversive activities of Nanking
agents in unoccupied hina.
In forwarding this memorandum it must be mentioned that
the Embassy cannot verify the statements made by Mr. Belechenko,
nor is it in a position to investigate the conditions which
he describes.
Rospectfully yours,
Confidential File
C.E. Gauss
Emolosure: Copy memorandum as stated.
Original and one copy to Department by air mail.
Three copies to vepartment by pouch.
Yen
800
JJK/owe

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
of September 15, 1941 from the
mbassy at Chungking.
Memorandum of Converaation
Subject: Subversive Activities of Nanking Agents.
Present: Mr. Belechenko, Instructor in Staff
College at Tsunyi.
Mr. Macdonald.
On September 6th I had a long oonversation with Mr.
Belechenko, a Russian refugee who teaches French and Russian
at the Stafr College at Taunyi. He was very dis∞ uraged
with his students at the military sohool who are poorly
disciplined and disinterested. He talked at some length
about the difficulties that both the army officers and
oivil officials are enoountering due to the high cost of
living and the low compensation given to them.
According to him the Japenese are well aware of the
trying cirounstanoes of the Chungking offioials and the
dissatisfaotion whioh is resulting on account of thir fi-
nancial plight. In order to make the most of this si tuati on
the Japanese have enoouraged the Nanking Govermment to send
secret agents to the unocoupied areas with attractive
offers to military and civil officials of the Chungking
Govermment who are dependent on their official salaries. The
Nanking agents will pay all expenses from unoccupied China
to the Nanking controlled ares for any official deserting
Chungking and offer them positions at a muob better remuner-
ation.
I asked my informant 1f he had any reason to beliave
that the Nanking agents were successful to whioh he replied
that they were far more successful than most people believed.
He lists offioials according to three categories; 1) thse
who have a private income from some business or other souboe
and who do not have to depend on their official salary, 2)
those who are in a position to make money through graft due
to their official position and 3) the unfortunate omes who
have no outside inocme and cannot make money through graft.
Assording to him the third category find it impossible to
maintaim aay sort of a decent standard of living on their
salaries and they are the ones whom the Nanking agents find
most susceptible to their offers and appreciable numbers
are deserting Chungking for the Nanking Goverment. He said
that he knows this situation 1s a constant worry to the
offieiels here and elsewhere in unoceupied Chine and a sub-
jeet which they do not want to be known generally. He deg
not think that memy of the higher officials have been appeeashed
but that doss mot mimimime the undermising effest that mmsh
a movement is likely to have on the entire Goverament.
Govermment eamnot hope to operate with only the "tope"
The faot that so many offieials are kmown to bemaking
good prorits through graft embitters the offioial oass
having me opportumisy to share the same good fortug. The
General in charge of the Staff Cellege at Tauayi, feeording
se Mrs Beleeheake, reeeives the totel salary due she studemt
efffeere and imstruetere ceek month but the studdhts aad

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
一2-
imstruetors always receive their salaries from two to
three months late. This acoumulated pay amounting to over
$80,O00 (Chinese netional currenoy) is maintained on deposit
by the Commanding General under his name in one of the
banks paying t per cent interest per month which he colleots
end keeps for himself. I have heard similar stories about
disbursing officials from other reliable sources. In con-
tinuation, he said that there is great rivalry among the
student officers to get jobs which will permit them to make
money on the side. Any sort of an assi gnment in connection
with transportation is at e premium because it offers one
of the best opportunities for greft.
The discipline at the Staff College is deplorable, Mr.
Belechenko claims. Few students have any interest in their
work as most of them are preoccupied with their own private
interests. The commanding officers are even worse since
they are so interested in their private affairs that there
is no semblanee of order or discipline. I remarked that it
was my understanding that the students had to pass rather
stiff examinations. He ugree that the examinations were
diffioult but an influential relative or friend is of far
more value in pe sing than a good grade.
Before ending the conversa 1on. Mr. Belechenko sa1d
that he thinks the Governmont is playing right into the
hands of the Nenking agents by allowing favoritism, graft,
ineffiolenoy and lack of discipline to go on unchecked
among a certain portion of the official class. This situa-
tion 1s bound to lead to dissatisfaotion and disaffection
among the honest element and there is the possibility that
the movement to join Nanking may increase and present a
serious threat to the Centrel Government.
J.J.M.
True oopy
of aigned ort
Rinai

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
394.20293
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
OK
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese activities in China.
Exposure of the Chung loh Co. of Hong Kong
as a Jananese- lang Ching lei agent in Sin-
ganore of Fifth Column Organization for
the South Pacific Area.
894.20293
/31
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
#1316
(Despatoh, lelegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
DatedSept. 27.1941
Singanore(Patton)
Tax
File No.
894.202/41
Lulluonuar fuD
AB

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
C1
No. 392.
Chungking, May 2, 1942
Si/C
Subject: Japanese Propaganda Leaflets
Dropned In Fukien.
894.20293/32
RlDavision of
PIR MAN
FAR EASTE AFAIRS
JUN 1 1942
Depariment of Share
INFORMATION
JUN 1 Q 1842
894.20293
For Distribn ron-Clock
Yos
No
Grade
142 41 334 530
COUNIGAN
For
In U S A.
DAIS
1942
The Honorable
mailed
18/4201
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
PS/PGB
I have the honor to transmit for the information
of the Department copy of a despatch from Consul
Edward E. Rice, formerly at Foochow, Fukien, and now
enroute to Chungking, enclosing copies and translatdons
FILED
of propaganda material dropped by Japanese planes er
51942
the unoccupied portion of Fukien Province.
Respectfully yours,
Confidential File
John Carter Vinoent
Charge d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosure:

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Enclosure:
1. Copy of desnatch s stated (Original of leaflets
enclosed with origin 1 copy of despatch
only.)
Original and four copies to the Denartrent by pouch
711 Jap/820.02
JSS/mc1

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
molosure no. 1 to despatch no. 392 dated May 2, 1942
from American Embassy at Chungking.
(COPY)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
of the
UNITED STATES OF AIERICA
In Transit at Wanping, "ukien, China,
April 2, 1942.
The Honorable
Clarence . Gauss,
American Ambassador,
Chungting.
Sir:
0
I have the honor to enelose, es of nossible
interest to the Tmbassy,  pronacande leaflet dro'red
by a Jananese plane at Changchow on 'arch 20, 1942
together with a suggested translation thereof. mhere
are also enclosed cony and translation of a portion
of another such leaflet dronved the same da?.
The leaflets contein details of losses which the
Japanese claim to have inflicted on the American,
British and Dutch naval and air forces. They also
contain passages urging the Chinese to unite with
Japan in order to defeat the Inited States and Creat
Britain and help build a "new Order" in "Greater East
Asia".
Respectfully  ours,
(Signed) Edward E. Rice
Edward E. Rice
American Consul
Confidendar
Enclosures:
1. Leaflet in Chinese, with suggested translation.
2. Copy and translation of a portion of second
learlet.
No eepy to Department
maihoy

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.87)
olosure no. 1 to despatch dated Apri1-2, 1942.
Leaflet Thrown Down by Japanese Airmen
at Changchow, Fukien, March 20, 1942
告大東亞民族諸同胞書
告
大東亞戰爭確為解放大東亞諸民族之世紀大事業日本東條首相
會於二月十六日在議會聞明此旨
醜大東亞戰爭之目標確係我雖國大理想淵源將使大東亞各國家各民族各得其所
而以皇國為核心依据道義確立共存共榮新秩序稽與英美諸國對東亞之態度完
全不同怪貴基於首相再三之解釋則東亞戰爭之目標世人尤得明瞭其起點蓋日
本以此遠大理想及不顧重大帳徃用以覆滅英美虛僞宣傳惟英美在過去一世紀歷
悠久之期間東經我東亞民族凶統之自田盡殺我貞亞無窮之資源寶庫其行爲與強盜
公然分賦實無少異愛好相平之我等祖先無奈伊何只忍耐屈辱任其所爲貪得
房民房
無壓之英美近愈變本加厲發揮其本性暴落其狎獨頭目呈示巨蛇吞象之野心欲
一口啖沒全東亞以英美在亞洲欲實行其陰謀計劃當然視日本爲眼中釘極度不滿日
本之存在遂以削滅口本國力爲先決問題企開龍絡懷柔中國輔親英美人物灌注華
人排日抗日之該詞邪說竟使中日兩國燃其者豈捲起戰應之不祥事件雖在下戈之中
日本對蔣及其派下論示兄弟閱墻之不利簡古合作母爲幽蚌之相待以備外寇
，
獨惜將政權依然執迷不解夢冀依賴英美足資憑語以貴重壯丁送葬砲火線下爲
4
灰塵手足自殘骨肉自戕事之位傷執有通此
東條首相會述謂
日本對中華民國民之應係國年
東亞之精神但因發一部祖迷之頭學有所在此人來亞九庫興隆之時中華民
衆依然坤吟於塗歲之中間係日本國家表例信而情之所在一其對中國之與學熱情
實已舉露無遺蓋英夫將口本幽力許信過而指自志動取火乃開收以遠無論海戰
陸戰及空中戰英美無不造遺自伽自帶蒙受巨創如開殿勞頭立即發滅
英美艦隊主力僅費兩日去年十二月二十五日攻陷香港一月之間再陷獻里拉
先後七旬重使新加坡陷洛如斯以口軍之勇敢普戰多年來英美內國侵略東亞之
三據點竟爾傾覆於一旦且婆羅洲西里伯紐不列鎮寺要衝遂次歸人日軍常握
對於縮甸爪陸激洲尤節令以進擊或炸擊撮大戰果中日軍攻無不勝戰無不克緬
爪濠覆滅指願可待此打倒英美解放十億東亞氏族之偉業決非獨委給日本之事業
乃係委於全東亞民族之重大任務也滿洲國中華民國國民政府泰國越南對日本建
設東亞共榮圈之事乘夙己表示衷心之臨力又棲旬印度澳洲新西關以及馬來
等路民族亦各覺悟逐漸傾向此氣運尤屬不可否認之事實
凡你憂國之士期龍三思考慮為大東亞永遠之自由又爲民族之生存務宜勇敢無身
百折不機向打倒共同之敵人英美之路以邁進
重团家
解放大東亞民族萬歲
日東條首相謂「際此時機緬印民萊若醒察英國之無力蘇身脫離英國多年之柱梏
與日相應參加建設東亞共榮图日將予以獨立之光榮欣然赴援與之携手回復編
印本來之地位
携打倒英美
奪回亞洲
Fil
D

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.74)
口
二十九
太
もりね
一
自氏額十年十二月八日鑑
克民周十一年三月二日七
澳
8
洋
英属
十
301120
安汶
中
HTE
民
法
国

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
( C O P Y )
tosure no. 1 to despatch dated April 2, 1942, from
Ward E. Rice, American Consul in transit at Nanping,
ukien, China.
(Suggested Translation)
Leaflet Thrown Down by Japanese Airmen
at Changchow, Fukien, March 20, 1942
MANIFESTATO TO BROTHERS OF THE GREAT EAST
ASIATIC RACES
BROTHERS: "DON'T LOSE THIS GOOD OP ORTUNITY;
RISE AND ADVA CE; COOPERATE WITH JAPAN; OVER-
THROW BRITAIN AND AMERICA; TAKE BACY ASIA BY
FORCE; RE-CONSTRUCT YOUR HATIONS: REVIVE
YOUR CIVILIZATIONS; LEAVE ELL AND ENJOY HAP-
PINESS."
The Great East Asia War is actually an epochal
undertakin to enancipate the various races of Greater
East Asia; and this purpose was declared in the Japanese
Parliarent by Premier TOJo (東 條) on February 26.
He said, "The air o? the reater East Asia War
really finds its source in the sreat ideel upon which
4
our nation, Jane , Ws founded. It will enable the
6
various countries and races of Greater East Asia to
ω
find their proper places ':.e., to be free and henny),
with the Jananese Empire as the nucleus, and to fol-
(2)
low humanity and justice in establ:shing the New Order
2
of co-existence and co-prosperity. This is of quite
a different character from the attitude which Britain
and U.S.A. have shovn towards East Asi:."
On the basis of the repeated explanations of the
Japanese Iremier, one would understand the starting
point of the object of the Eurt Arie war; for Japan,
cherishing this far reaching ideal and disregarding
serious sacrifices, is trying to destroy the false
propaganda of Britain and America. In the late century
these two nations restricted the traditional liberty
of our East Asiatic races and seized all their unlimited
resources and treasures; their action was nothing dif-
ferent from brigands dividing booty. Cur peace-loving
forefathers were so helpless that they were compelled
to endure such humiliation end let their enemies do
whatever the latter wished. However, the greedy and
unsatiated Britons and Americans have become still
more ferocious; they are so covetous and fierce in
nature that they desire to swallow up all East Asia
as an anaconda does an elephant. Since they wish to
carry out their secret plan in Asia, it is but natural
that they regard Janan as a thorn in the eye and dis-
like very much the existence of Janan and therefor
they consider the weakening of Japanese national power
as the first question to be solved, and at the same
time they want to make friends with the Chinese in
order that the latter may be pro-English and pro-
American. Therefore they pour into Chinese heads the
anti-Japanese heresy. Consequently China and Japan,
which were brothers before, have been instigated to
fight each other in the present unhappy incident.
Even

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Even during the war, Japan has advised Chiang
Kai-shek and his subordinates that it is disadvanta-
geous for the Chinese and the Japanese, who are brothers,
to fight against each other, and that instead they
should work together against the invasion of a third
Power. But unfortunately the authorities of Chiang's
Government have never been convinced of the facts and
are still dreaming that England and America are reliable:
They even send their valuable youth to the front as
cannon fodder! How pitiable and miserable this battle
is which has been fought among blood brothers!
The Japanese Iremier ToJO once said, "The Japanese
attitude toward the Chinese peonle is that these two
nations are like brothers who ought to have the coimmon
spirit of co-operation and promotion of the reconstruc-
tion of Asia. But misled by a nurher of obstinate
leaders, tle Chinese are still groaning under their
sufferings even in this glorious and prosperous enoch
of Greater East Asia: this is a natter concerning
which Japan ir deenly syanathetic."
His (Tojo's) comassion and enthusiasm were clearly
shown in the above statement. Britain and Anerica,
having underrated Jananese strength, have onened hosti-
lities. But since the outbreak of the war, they have
been badly defeated on sea, land, and in the air. Thus
they have put the cangue on tieir own necks and have
suffered serious losses. Tor instance, in the beginning
of the war, the main forces of the British and American
fleets were immediately destroyed within two days. On
December 25, 1941 Hone Mon: was taken; within one month
Manila was occunied; anà within seventy days Singapore
also fell. The Jananese are so daring and skilled in
fighting that the three strategic points which the two
English-speaking nations had occ pied in East Asia for
many years were quickly occupied. Furthernore Borneo,
the Celebes and New Britain fell successively into the
hands of the Ja anese who are now advancin to attack
Burma, Java and Australia. Wherever the war area is
extended, the Jananese have been victorious, and these
three places soon will fall.
The great rission of beating Britain and America and
of setting free the one billion peonle of East Asis
is entrusted not only to Ja an but to all the people
of East Asia. Manchukuo, the Republic of China, Thailand,
and Indo-China have expressed their cordial assistance
to the establishment of the Co-prosperity Sphere of
East Asia. The people of Burma, Ind'c, Australia, New
Zealand and Malaya have also been awakened, and it can-
not be denied that they tend towards the same destina-
tion.
All of you who are patriotic should consider well
and exert yourselves for the everlasting freedom of
Greater East Asia and for the existence of its races
and go ahead to overthrow the Britishers and Americans,
our common foes.
Long

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
Long live the emancinated races of Greater East
Asia!
The Jananese Premier also said, "At present if
the people of Burma and India understand the inability
of Britain and free themselves from the British yoke
of many years standing and respond to the Jananese
action by joining in the establishment of the East
Asia Sphere, Ja an will elp them to realize their
glorious indenendence and will wor with them to
restore their fomer positions.
(Reverse side of leaflet)
Laval Battle of awaii
Sunk
eavily
oderately
America's Losses
damaged
damaged
Battleships
5
3
1
Cruisers
Light cruisers
4
Destroyors
Cil tanker
1
Airplanes shot dovn or
damaged: over
464
Other militery instella-
tions damaged.
Jananese Losses.
Airplanes
29
Special submarines
5
Haval Battle of alaya
British Losses
Battleships
2
Destroyer
1
Jananese Losses
Airplanes
3
Naval Battle of Java
American and Dutch Losses
Cruisers (Dutch)
2
1
Merchant vessels
1
Cruisers (American)
1
Japanese Losses
Airplane
1
Naval

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
Naval Battle off Darwin
Sunk
Heavily
Slightly
British (Australian)
damaged
damaged
Losses
Cruiser
1
Destroyers
2
1
Submerine chaser
1
Transports
26
Airplanes
Jananese Losses
Airnlanes
2
Naval Battle off Patavia end Soerabaja
British, American and
Dutch Losses
Cruisers
1.
Destroyers
Submarines
7
Gunboat
1
l'ine sweeper
7
Japanese Lorres
Destroyer
7
l'ine sweeper
7
In ninor engage ents at sea and in the air, the
Jananese san' over 30 destroyers and submarines of the
navies of Britain, Aerica and the Dutcl. Indies, as
well as several tens of their gunboats and torpedo-
boats; and cantured more than 2o transnorts of the
three Powers.
Period covered:
December , 141 to : arch 2, 1942.
(

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.93)
( C O P Y )
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch dated April 2, 1942, from
Edward E. Rice, American Consul in transit at Nanping,
Fukien, China.
(Translation of portion of second tyne of leaflet
dropred at Changchow, Fukien, by Jananese planes on
March 20, 1942)
PUBLISHED BY TE JA A ESE EADUARTERS
AJOULT OF LOSSES AID DA AGES T LE-OF-WAR
AND AEROPLAITES SUTTERED BY TE FLTETS CT
BRITAIY, A TRICA AD OLIA D
Battleshins
Plane Carriers
Cruisers
American
sunk
sunk
sunk
(1)
Arizona cless
1
(2) Marylond cluss
7
(3) Californ cluss
7
(4) Utah class
7
(5) of unknown cluss
1
11
British
(1) PRICE  I
(2) REPULSE
1.
10
American
ω
(1)
LEXI CTCY
1
(2) LAIGLSY (seaplene tender)
1
3
(3)  ew tyme of hediu size
2
(heavily dane d
(1) ARBLEAD
1
(2) HOUSTCN
1
(3) or unkn vn ty be
2
british
(1) EXETER
11|21
(2)巴斯福培塔
Dutch
(1) Java type
(2) 羅伊德爾號
1rr12
(3) SUMATRA
(4) 特倫浦號
Destroyers, submarines, tornedo boats, gunboats and
ships for special service:
93
ial File
Battleships

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.92)
-2 -
Battleshins Heavily Damaged
(1) 字培塔
tyme
2
(2) Maryland type
1
(3) Californin tme
1
Others (small r than cruiserr):
Heavily or moderat l da aged
29
Litly damaged
4
..0.
Tons
Cargo vesrels sunk
105
500,000
Cargo vessels heavily or
moderately damared
1
302,000
19
902,000
Aeroplanes shot com
461
Aeroblanes destroyed on ground
1,076
2537
R
(

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
894.20293/32
FH
JUN 8 1942
CONFIDENTIAL
The Department of State transmits to the following
FW 894.20293/32
the attaohed information in the hope that 1t will be of
value:
Military Intelligenoe Division
Offioe of Naval Intelligenoe
Federal Bureau of Investigation
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxoxx
Coordinator of Information
Enclosure:
Copy of ponfidential despatch No. 392, dated May 2.
1942, from the American Embassy, Chungking, subjeet:
"Japanese Propaganda Leaflets Dropped in Fukien",with
enclosure.
File
FO:MJOTOPV 6/6/42

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Exchange S.S. GRIPSHOLM,
August 8, 1942
LIAISON
Am service
SEP 171942
SUBJECT:
JAPANESE AVIATORS OVER HONG KONG.
Recording
DOA
vision of
File
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG 2 8 1942
894.20293/33
AUG 26 1942
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
DIVIBION OF
CINICATIONS AND RE
OCT3 1942
MENT OF STA
No
The pnorable
ONI, MIS
The Secretary of State,
93
0CT - 3 1942
Washington.
S i r :
I have the honor to enclose, as of possible
interest to the Department, copies of two leaflets
which were scattered by Japanese aviators over Hong
Kong prior to the fall of that city to Japanese forces.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enlosures:
PS/PGB
Copies of two leaflets.
fidential File
JCG:nn
OCT 9 -1942
FILED
Original and 3 copies to the Department.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to despatch dated August 8,
1942, from Ambassador Grew on board
Exchange S.S. GRIPSHOLM.
Leaflet dropped by Japanese aviators over Hong Kong
prior to the fall of that city to Japanese forces.
To all Chinese emigrants in Hong Kong
Commander of the Japanese Army
Now the Japanese Army tightly sieged Hong Kong
where you live and where you accumulate your wealth,
and the occupation of Hong Kong by the Japanese Army
close at hand. But what the Japanese Army long for
is not the destructions of your lives and properties
or of Hong Kong but the destruction of the influence
of English.
But if you let the English to resist in vain being
used as their tool and run away giving up your house
and property, all your properties will be robbed by
3
the mob and the White, and still more the Japanese Army
3
also will be forced to destroy your lives with the
Hong Kong Island. You should trust to the faith of
the Japanese Army and let the English surrender to
the Japanese Army giving up their resistances, and
wait for the Japanese Army protecting your properties
by your own hands. When reached, the Japanese Army
would assure you of your lives &nd properties moreover
would assert to help your prosperities in future.
F

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to despatch dated August 8,
1942, from Ambassador Grew on board
Exchange S.S. GRIPSHOLM.
Leaflet dropped by Japanese aviators over Hong Kong
prior to the fall of that city to Japanese forces.
you British Nationals!
Be awakened immediately to the actual situation of
the world!
Millions of Imperial Troops are already advanced
to India, and the Rising Sun Flags are already flying in
such ma jor cities of the Far East as Manila, Batavia,
Bangkok, Singapore, Rangoon, etc. The cry for co-
prosperity is raised all over the whole of those areas.
In Europe the German Army has occupied Moscow the
Redcapital, its violent attacks threatening to extend
to the Ural regions. London the British capital is in
a most perilous situation. The American Pacific Fleet,
3
which has been leading the camp of democracies, has
3
been heavily damaged by the Japanese Navy and is now
solely devoted to the defence of its own country. You
British officers and men who are encamped in Hong Kong
and Kowloon! Stop continuing to offer futile resist-
ances within the narrowly limited areas without the
knowledge of the changed international situation. Your
strategic establishments are sure to collapse before
the serious attacks by the Imperial Army. You panic-
stricken citizens on the solitary island in helpless
1solation!
In order to save Kowloon and Hong Kong from the
soene of mutual slaughter of human lives and also to
avoid the loss of your fathers, husbands and children
as well as your properties, bring pressure upon the
D

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
government authorities to deliver Hong Kong and Kowloon
without bloodshed and resistance. We firmly believe
you will choose this wise measure without fail.
Should you destroy the important establishments
and materials in Hong Kong and Kowloon in order to pre-
vent their utilization by the Imperial Army, after
their occupation the Japanese Army will surely annihilate
all British nationals in retaliation.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.93)
10.1
My dear Mr. Stanley;
There is enclosed for your information a sopy of
a despatah dated August 8, 1942 prepared by Ambassador
33
894.20293/33
93
Grew on board the exohange vessel M. 8. Sripahelm. en-
closing copies of leaflets dropped by Japanese aviators
over Hong Kong in the early daye of the war.
894
Sincerely yours.
John N. Begg
Assistant Chier
Division of Cultural Relations
Enclosure:
Angust 8. 1942 from
Ambassader Grew on
beard Exohange N.S.
Confidential Fi
Srinabalm and enolosure.
PS/VMC
Mr. Eaward Stanley
Ofriee of War Infermation,
Fourth and Imdependsnee
Avamus, N. W.
Washingtan, 9. C.
OCT 16 1942PM
true copy of
F. E.
the signed enigle
CI/L!RS:HMW
10/7-9/42
nal.
qoQ

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
34
R
Japanese propaganda in Peiping. The- before December 8 was wide-
SUBJECT
spread but sporadic. After that date, it developed rapidly in
both scope and intensity.
894.20293
fp
134
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Des. #233
(Despatoh, telegram, instrudon, letter, eto.)
From
Chile (Butrick on SS GRIPSHOLM)
Dated .Aug..15,1942
To
894.202
File No. ....893.00/14875

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
894.20293
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Alleged British Anti-American propaganda in China:
Transmits communication from China which is -, but bears
the date stamp of Japanese occupies Peking.
894.20293
C2
5
em
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See546
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, sto.)
35
From/ Dominican Republic
Dated Feb. 16, 1943
To (Warren)
Confidential File
File No.
851.20293/4
1-1000

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.95)
094.20293
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Messages radioed from Shanghai to Tokyo:
Transmits copies of -.
vl
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See.letter
(Despatah, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From
Dated....May..4,1943
Argentina(Millard)
791
File No. .862.20210/2355
1-1540

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
ORIGINAL
No. 5
Office of the Secretary on Detail at Chengtu,
Chengtu, Szechwan, February 25, 1944.
SUBJECT:
Arrest of a Nanking Spy
10
The
Honoraba
DIV. OF F
The Socmetary of State,
早  20
MAR 221944
Washington, D.C.
3/24/44N
Sir
I have the honor to report that, according to infor-
mation from a reliable source in Chengtu, the authorities
here have arrested a prominent Chinese on charges of
espionage for the puppet regime at Nanking.
Mr. Ch'en Chu-jen (陳族人), who since 1937 has held
positions in Chengtu as Chief Secretary of the Szechwan
834.20293/37
Provincial Bureau of Reconstruction, Assistant Secretary
of the Szechwan Provincial Government, and Chief Secre-
tary of the Provincial Committee on Price Control, was
arrested about a week ago by Chinese military police and
municipal detectives while attempting a hasty exit from a
musical recital to which he had been lured by a Government
agent.
It appears that Mr. Ch'en came under suspicion as the
leader of an important spy ring when one of several Chinese
women in his employ rebelled against his conduct and report-
ed him to the police. Disclosures made by Mr. Ch'en follow-
ing his arrest are expected to involve other prominent
officials. Mr. Ch'en has been removed to Chungking for
trial by a military tribunal.
Respectfully yours,
894.20293
FILED
Harry E. Stevens,
-1944
Second Secretary of Embassy
on Detail at Chengtu.
873.00
Approyed for transmission:
Gauss.
2
ential F

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
March 86, 1944.
10 694.20293/37
CONFIDENTIAL
The Department of State tranamits for the infor-
mation of the Offloe of Strategio Servicss, a copy of
894.20293/37
confidential despatch no. 5 dated February 25, 1944,
from the Office of the Secretary on Detail at Chengtu,
Chengtu, Szeohwan, sub joct: "Arrest of a Nanking Spy".
Enolosure:
From Office of the Secretary on
Detail at Chengtu, Chengtu, Sseahwan,
dated February 25, 1944.
Confidentl
the sigy

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Chungking, Mareh 2, 1944
Reported Arrival of General Kenji Doihara
Susj-ct:
in Canton Area for Supervision of Espionage
and Sabotage Activities in South China.
CRET
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.202
MAR 22 1944
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
10
Department of State
Pol Bs-1
The Seefetary or State,
CL
20
Wshington, . C.
7c/x-1
E2
44 AR
ON
CA-2 m7D-2
)N1-1055
3/38
9
Sir
gwa
I have the nonor to enclose a copy of airgram No.
A-6, February 14, 5 p.m. from the Consulate at Kweilin in
regard to the reported arrival in the Canton area of Lieu-
tenant General Kenji Doinara for the purpose of directing
Recording Desk
espionage and sabotage activities in south China.
File-C.B.W.
DCA
Summary. According to British intelligence sources,
General Doihara has recently established his headquarters
near Canton and is expected to supervise espionage and
sabotage activities in south China. United States Army
authorities at Kweilin believe that American military es-
tablishments will be important objectives for Doihara's
agents and the use of Japanese paratroops is anticipated
by responsible military quarters at Kweilin. Terror tac-
tics recently adopted by the Japanese against Chinese vil-
lages and people in areas where American pilots have para-
chuted and subsequently escaped to free China and inhuman
treatment of American pilots captured by the Japanese are
possibly the result of Doihara's operations in south China.
End of Summary.
Respectfullyours,
C. E. Gauss
Enclpsure:
1/ Airgram from Consulate, Kweilin,
A-6, February 14, 5 p.m.
Confd
Single copy to the Department.
file
711 Sino-Jap
AUG121944
PDS/hcr
ADMINIRATIVE
A11944
REPRODUCTION SICTION
DA

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch
No. 2249, March 2, 1944,
American Embassy, Chungking.
AIRGRAM
FROM: American Consulate,
Kweilin, China.
Date Sent: February 15, 1944
American Eabassy,
Chungking.
A-6, February 14, 5 p.m.
. STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
British intelligence nas received reliable reports
that Lieutenant General Kenji Leihara recently established
his headquarters near Canton and is to devote his energies
to the direction of espionage and sabotage activities in
south China. It is the conviction of United States Army
officers here that military establishments in the vicinity
of Kweilin will be important objectives for General Doihara's
agents. The destruction a few nights ago of telephone lines
leading to one of our military installations has served to
confirm this belief. The lixelihood of sabotage here is in-
tensified by the difficulty whicn the Japanese Air Force
has experienced in effectively penetrating our defences to
this depth in recent months. It is comnon talk in Kweilin
that the ultimate purpose of the aviation facilities here
is to serve as a main base for launching bombing missions
against the Japanese mainland; determined Japanese efforts
to impair the efficiency of these facilities, even to the
extent of using paratroopers, are anticipated in responsible
military quarters here. An intelligence report has just been
received that a considerable force of Japanese parachute
troops has arrived at a French Indochina base. Doihara i
credited. with the direction of a paratroop operation in
Malaya early in the war, details of which he revealed in a
speech in Tokyo in 1942.
It should be mentioned that Chinese military authoriti
here are skeptical of reports of Doihara's presence in souti
China, maintaining that he remains in comnand of Japan's
air defence forces.
Intelligence officers here deplore the wide publicity
which has recently been given to the escape of American
pilots who have parachuted into enemy-occupied territery
near Canton. It is reported that Japanese troops recently
razed several villages and siaughtered village leaders in
the vicinity of one such landing after an American pilot had
been guided across Japanese lines to safety. The efficaey
of this policy was demonstrated a few days ago when two
Amoriean pilots who parachuted in that area were escorted
by villagors to a Japanese outpost where they were beaten
to death by Japanese soldiers before a large crowd. It is
possible that terror tactics by the Japanese against pea-
sants who have rendered assistance to Americans is a result
dential File
of Doihara's operations in south China.
SERVICE

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.95)
nom 894.20293
CHARGN TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
REMARKS

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
WDGBI/SEC
WAR FROBLEMS
DIVISION
SKL
GDD
WAR DEPARTMENT
AUG1215
Office of
M.I. D.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
11944
MID 201 - CHOW, Georg
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
Departinent of State
0 June 1944
(Date)
Subject:
CN, Geore
Fre
894.20293/6-1044
Thy
Summary of Information:
Information ated 11 ovember 1.2 reveals that George Chow
DEQCLASIFIED
is a Vancouver Chinese, said to huve Canadian citizenship. When last
located he was broadenstinr for the Jupanese from Hong Yong.
Under date of 10 Februery l.a4 inforrntion was recei ved from
a reliable source that Georre Chow was an ixis agent in the Far East.
OsD leter. May 3. 1972
Chow, who is rown to the int ormant, is re utedly a Canndian citizen
E.O. 11652, Sec. 3(E) cnd 5(D) 
Crom Vineouver. urin the eriod 1r t 1942, while the informant
ws in Hons ronr, Chow wori d us a crejit investi ator with the National
Ciy Bank's brarch there. Chow at  reputation vlieh wus rot entirely
banke uestioned his interrity. it shoul I be noted unut n was continually
inese in long ors. is such he found poudy access amonr olt iciel circles.
at the com encement of hostilities Show saw action us a
volunteer with the British forces. He wis ca; tured and interned by the
Japanese after the surrender at Shanshuipo irisoners of ir Camp in
Kowloon. Sometime in Februarv, as far as the informant can recall,
he made a successtul escape from the camp with another chinese named
Charlie luang, now resident in calcutta. Huany is a brother of teorge
Huang, a pilot with  Ac. Srortly aft'r he had his  reedom, Chow married
Miss Fannie Lee, former physical instructress at a mi Idle school in Hong
kong. It was his wife who made contact with the informont to report that
how had escaped from the camp and requested that he hank pay her his
alary, which be had been unable to collect during the period of
ostilities.
9700
Sometime in March, Chow himself appeared at the hank, where the
formant was assisting the Japanese in the liguidation of the National
ty Bank, at which time the story of his escape was riven. A short tin
Evaluation
-of source
-of information
Previous Distribution:
Reliable
Distaibution:
State Department
rvelation (: 11
transmsion of the
File
File
uthorizea per:o.
ebt
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
OONFTDNTTAL
201 - CH0W, George
after that Chow appeared again at the bank requesting that further funds
be given him and confided that he was broadcasting from the Japanese
controlled Hong Kong Broadcasting Station as a foreign news commentator.
It appeared to the informant very strange that an escapee from a
Prisoners of War Camp was able to obtain employment within a strategic
Japanese enterprise without heing apprehended. He told the informant
that he had assumed an alias name, and, although he was in constant fear
of detection, he felt reasonably assured that the Japanese had no record
of him and therefore would be able to get away with it.
When the informant was in Calcutta in late lugust last,
just prior to proceeding to Chungking, it was learned from mutual
friends that Chow was emploved by the British Embassy in Chungking,
but was expected in Calcutte shortly to arrange sea transportation back
to Canada via the United otates. Chow arrived in Culcutta on or about
27 August, and immedietely proceeded with his wife to Rombay. When the
informant was in Bombay on or about lo October, Chow and his wife were
there. The informant had lunch with him and his wife, and was told
that re was leaving the following morning by boat teross the Pacific to
the United States. The informa't lid not see Chow or his wife after that
and is unable to state whether he left ror the States.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.93)
OCT 241944
EMBASSY OF THE
Office 01
FAR EASTERN AFTAS
Second Secretary on detalf
SEP 1 1944
Sian, Shensi,
DEPUTY DIRE
July 26, 1944
Department of Stat
CONFIDENTIAL
Subject:
Publication in Japan of Lin Yu-t
entitled "Between Tears and Laugater
NoY 25 1944
8
The Honorable
STVLS
The Secretary of State,
9
Warington, "D. C.
20293/7-
AM
893.01/6
Ihave the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatoh to the
artment nox2665, June 10, 1944, with which was transmitted
Embassy's Political Report for May, 1944 and to report as
Low in regard to Japanese use of the book Between Tears and
ghter, by the Chinese author Lin Yu-t'ang.
2
9
I recently was loaned copies, comprising the March 1l and
11 1, 1944 issues(第=+五卷第+一；第+ 四 号 ) of the magazine
4
i Sekai Shuho(间盟世界 n), or Domei World News Weekly, whion
published by the official Japanese Domei News Agenoy. These
sues respectively contained the fourth and seventh installments
a Japanese translation of Between Tears and Laughter(
Apparently the Japanese consider Mr. Lin's book good anti-
Amerioan and anti-British propaganda. It is of interest in this
connection to recall that according to the Embassy's politioal
report referred to above, Mr. Lin travelled to the United States
on an official passport as a Chinese Government official and
that the Embassy had granted him an official visa at the insis-
tent request of the Chinese Foreign Office.
Respectfully yours,
Esmare E. Riie
894.20293
JAN 1 6 1945
7.2644
FILED
Edward E. Rice
Second Secretary of Embassy
Approved for transmission:
Yen
No
SAEIE
For Distribution-Check
To fiell
PETTION
C. E. Gauss
In U.S.A.
0CT711944
Ameriean Ambasmador
For
CA-2
o~1
O NOISING
C.C.Rice
CB
SEP 19 1944
DIVISION OF
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT
SEP 16 1944
SEP
REPRODUCTION SECTION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 18, 1941.
M.I.D. reports nos. 10218-10220,
October 15, 1940, from Tokyo, give
the outline biographies of:
Major General Raishiro Sumita,
who was apnointed in 1940 as head of
the Inspectorate set up in French
Indoohina for regulation of traffic
into China;
Lieutenant Generel Kenj1 Doihara,
who was appointed on September 28 to
the Supreme Military Council; end
General Gen Sugiyama, who was
appointed 1n 1940 to the post of
Chief of General Staff.
H7
FE:Fales:FRE
