894.543 Intellectual And Industrial Property. Applications For Patents And Copyrights, Registration Of Particular Trade Marks, And Contests Arising Therefrom Are Arranged Alphabetically Under The Respective Numbers., Trade-Marks. Trade Name (File 1810)
ID: 894.543-1810   Pages: 145   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.543-intellectual-and-industrial-7
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
JTCEC
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
Da
DC/R
Federal Bureau of Inuestigation
IC AFFAIPS
π
United States Department of Justice
Mashington,D.C.
As Nve
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
FILE NUMBER
1945
Date:
August 31, 1945
SEP4194J
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
6
Chief
DCP
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
543/9-445
From:
John Edgar lloover - Director, Federal Eureau of Investigation
Subject:
Japanese Patent;
Santiago, Chile
Information has been received from reliable, confidential sources to
the effect that among the records of the former Japanese firm at Santiago, Chile,
the Compania Comercial Taibo, S. A., there was found considerable correspondence
regarding a Japanese patent.
necker, a Patent Attorney in Santiago, Chile, at which time they requested đim to
endeavor to register a patent of Katsuyuki Hikami, No. 622 East 3-Chome, Magome-
Machi, Omori-Ku, City of Tokyo, Japan. It appeared that this patent wes
FORVICTORY
based on Japanese Patent Application No. 5144/194l dated April 1, 1941. It
BUY
was entitled "A Method of Preventing a Natural Combustion and Overheating
UNITED
WAR
STATES
of Sulphide Cres and Other Mineral Products".
BONDS
AND
STAMPS
As of interest tc you, there is transmitted a copy of a memorandum deal-
ing with this patent. This information is also being furnished to the
445
Foreign Economic Administration.
Enclnaure

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
C
0
P
Y
English Specifieatiem
(for reference)
My invention relates to a method of preventing harmful natural heat
generation of sulphide ores or other mineral produots which are liable to cause
spontaneous combustion, and its object is to safely prevent the natural firing
or overheating of mineral ores or products such as particles obtained by a
floatation mothod during their storage or transportation.
Fine powders of sulphides of metals such as copper, iron, lead, sine
and the like are unavoidably oxidized by the action of moisture contained in
themselves and air during a long storago or a huge acoumulation as in case of
shipping or marine transportation. Especially in case of loading of a large
quantity or a great deposited mass of fine powders suoh as floatation products,
the heat transmission or ventilation is not good so that the heat caused by
oxidation may be acoumulated owing to the small specifio heat of the fine
powders and the evolution of heat proceeds with acceleration resulting often
spontaneous firing.
My invention is to prevent the dangerous heat evolution of the mineral
products by suppressing the natural oxidation of sulphides of metals which is
the main cause of the heat generation. For this purpose, I have found out after
many experiments that soap solution is most effective for preventing the progress
of natural oxidation of sulphides. In accordance with my invention, soap solution
or soap in other form is sprayed or mixed with powders of mineral ore or treated
products, or blowm refuses of metallurgical refining process, or other mining
products which are liable to cause the spontaneous heat evolution. Then the
soap solution reacts with tho sulphates of iron, coppor, aluminium, calcium or
other metals, which coexist with or are atteched to the particle or ore or the
mineral products, as the result of oxidation of the surface of sulphides and
produces insoluble metallic salts of fatty acids which form proteotive covering
for the other ores and sulphide particles, therety suppressing the natural
oxidation caused by the combined action of moisture and air, and thus the heat
evolution can be prevented.
In carrying my invention into effect, any kind of aldaline soap may
be used and a suitable amount such for instance as 0.1 to 3% of soap such as
soda soap may be dissolved in water. Such soap solution is sprayed on fine
particles of copper ore collected as floatation products cr concentrates con-
taining copper pyrite and iron pyrite, for instance, when such floatation
products or ore particles are shipped on board for the purpose of transportation.
Fine powders or paste of soap may be mixed with sulphide partioles by suitable
means. Then the danger of heat evoluticn due to the spontaneous combustion even
during a long voyage can be safely prevonted by the action of protective film
of insoluble fatty acid salts produced by the chemical reaction of soap and
sulphates of metals, thereby covering the ore particles to isolate the partiole
from air and water and to suppress the oxidation of sulphides.
4n. 23,197CFB1#2
1217178

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
The inventor considers that natural combustion of coal is caused
by the effect of sulphide partioles attached to coal and acoordingly the
present invention can equally be applied to coal or coal partioles for
preventing spontaneous combustion or explosion.
Alkaline elements in the soap have no effeot of preventing naturel
oxidation of sulphides, but the aotion of fatty noids in soap is utilised by
this invention. According to my experimonts I have ascertained that mere
alkaline solution such as lime solution is not effective to prevent the
natural oxidation of coal since the oxidation of sulphides such as iren
pyrite occurs according to the following reaction:-
FeS2 + 7O + H2O --------→ FeSO4 + H2SO4.
The sulphate base " S04 " in the right term of the oquation is
neutralized by alkali such as calcium hydroxide suocessively so that the
equilibrium is not stable and the oxidation proceeds constantly. Thus it
will be clear that the action of fatty acids in soap upon sulphates is most
important in this invention.
I olaim:
1. A method of preventing natural combustion and overheating of
sulphide ores and other mineral products which are liable to cause spontaneous
combustion consisting in mixing alkaline soap in a suitable form such as
solution powder or paste with sulphide ores and other mineral produots con-
taining sulphides of metals, thereby forming proteotive film of insoluble
fatty acid salts around the particle of mineral substance to suppress the
natural oxidation of sulphides.
2

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.95)
SCHENLEY DISTILLERS CORPORATION
OCT171945
EMPIRE STATE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
350 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY
EXECUTIVE
OFFICES
TELEPHONE CHICKERING 4-220C
October 10, 1945
DC/k
0
OENIES
EEVE
DIVISION OF
The Hongrable James F
H
BIVISIGN
Byrnes,
COMMODITIES DIVISION
ecretay of State,
JA311946
wmR
Departmnt of State,
NOV 3 0 1945
Washington, D.C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
STATE
195
E
Prior to World War II, the sale of American products
abroad was thwarted and curtailed by competition from the
inferior articles with which Japan flooded the world markets.
As is well known, the Japanese for many years openly ignored
the protective features of trade mark and patent laws, with
the result that many Japanese products bore imitations and
counterfeits of the trade marks of the leading merchandising
brands of this country, and many articles produced by the
894.543/10-1045
Japanese were manufactured and distributed without recognition
of the inventor's rights or the payment of royalties.
Throughout the world Bourbon and Rye whiskies are
recognized as the distinctive product of North America. Despite
this fact, the Japanese did not hesitate to manufacture in
large quantities and to market in their own country and in any
other part of the world in which they could find a buyer,
alcoholic beverages spuriously labeled as Bourbon and Rye
whiskies, and frequently under counterfeit trade marks as well.
In formulating the terms which will govern the
future status and activities of the people of Japan, it is
sincerely hoped that our representatives will be alert to the
necessity of requiring the Japanese to establish and enforce
effective trade mark and patent laws and to refrain from the
manufacture and distribution of counterfeits and imitations
of the products of other countries.
wru@ wh
Very truly yours,
CtThe
894.54310
DOR
Lester E. Jacobi
FEB-81946
PresidentO
FILDS
A
Anal.
NOV 2 R 194L
Rev.
DEPARTM
S
Cat

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
NOV 291945
In reply refer to
Le 894.543/10-1045
My dear Mr. Jacobi:
Reference is made to your letter of October 10,
1945 regarding the problem of Japanese imitation of
American trade marks, in whici: you suggest that repre-
sentatives of the United States Government should be
alert to the necessity of requiring the Japanese to
establish and enforce effective trade mark and patent
laws and to refrain from the manufacture and distribu-
tion of counterfeits and imitations of products of
other countries.
894.543/10-1045
Your letter has been made of record and your sug-
gestion will receive due consideration.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Green H. Hackworth
Legal Adviser
Mr. Lester E. Jacobi, President,
Schenley Distiliers Corporation,
Empire State Building,
350 Fifth Avenue,
CS/LE
New York, New York.
RPT
Le:WWBishop:vb
CD:
HUCP:
ES:
JA:
10-25-45
894.543
CR
R
27 1945

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.88)
CHARGE SLIP
894,543
File No.
ENCLOSURE
CHARGE TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
RemarkS
I r Tenry Ruke
2.546
LE
4-946
Ah
4/8/46
8
B.S. COVERNNENT PRINTING OPPICE 1—168S

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
The attached letter from Henry Ruhl and
a draft renly were tirned over to me by
Miss Hadley when she left the Department.
The draft has been rev sed in the renly
attached. It is regretted that this re-
vision has caused delay in answering the
inquiry.
IR:WMRudolnh

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
APR8
In reply refer to
IR 894.545/2-546
My dear Mr. Ruhl:
In your letter or February 5 you state that your
elient, Arthur Bier and Company, Ineorporated, of
57 Worth Street, New York City, sought unsueeessfully
in 1939 to register its trade-mark AB0" in Japan.
You inquire whether the trade-mark can be registered
now with the United States military authorities in
894.543/2-546
Tokyo and how your client may otherwise proteet his
mark.
The United States military authorities have not
assumed the civil functions of the Japanese Government
and accordingly it is not possible to register trade-
marks with them. Moreover, private Japanese trading
and business communieation with nationals of other
countries have not yet been permitted and until sueh
trade and communioation are authorised, it would not
appear that the question of proteeting your elient's
trade-mark will arise.
When it becomes possible to resume private trade
and business communication, it is expected that applica-
tion for trade-marks will be permissible. Amerlean
business will be adequately informed of such development
CS/LF
through the press.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
894.543/~1546
w
Robert P. Terrill
Assistant Ohief, International
APR
Resources Division
Mr. Henry Ruhl,
8
Patent and Trade-mark Attorney,
346
274 Madison Avenue,
New York 16, New York.
IR:WMRudoloh:oms
4/4/46

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.95)
HENRYRUHL
PATENT AND TRADE MARK ATTORNEY
274 MADISON AVENUE
NEW YORK I6, N. Y.
AWESOURCES DIVISION
HO
ASHLAND 4-4728
wme
PRAIMUT OF STATE
February 5,1946
IFPAI ADVISFB
State Department,
APB111946
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:
894.543/2-546
My client, Arthur Beir & Co., Inc., of 57 Worth Street, New York City, N.Y.,
in 1939 sought to register its trade mark "ABc" in Japan. Investigation discloses
that the firm of Assano Company Ltd. had registered the trade mark "ABC" in Japan
for similar goods (textile fabrics) under No. 97,209.
Ly client is desirous of registering its trade mark so that it may be in a
position to prosecute any infringers in Japan. Please advise me whether it is possi-
ble or expedient to register the trade mark with our military authorities in Tokyo;
if not, is it possible to protect said trade mark in any other way?
Respectfully,
2remn nhe
HR:cw
894.543/
APR1 2194
CS/VJ
mh

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTION COPY
DIVISIÓN OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
oar
8
Tangiar
Dated Seotember 5, 1946
Action: ESP
Info
Rec'a 9:45 a.m., 14th.
EUR
SECRET
NEA
FE
Control.4626
DC/L
ITP
Paraphrase before communicating to anvone.
ACTINF
OFD
ESP
A-C
SEGSTATE
A-H
OCD
xe13
894.543/9-546
FC
DC/R
332, September 5, 11 a.m.
ollowing numbored answers correspond numbered
inuuiries refenencebelegram
OF ST
() Only. Jap assets in Tangier, according
administration, are following trademarks filed
February 9, 1940, by Mitsui Bussan Kaioha Ltd: No. 206
trademark "Robinet & Fau" and No. 207 same trademark
with different design. Trademarks Nos. 235 to 242
Inclusive for "cat fork", "elephant and cigar", "cat
and butterfly', 'three elephents", "crown and tiger"
"B.E.D.", "dog and cigar", "ox and watch" respectively,
deposited May 10, 1940 by Mataichi Kabushiki Kaisha.
These trademarks still held by original owners and are
both represented in Morocco according to records by
M. Penanros Herve, 25 Rue Prom, Casablanca. Administra-
WWISON
tion states no real property openly registered in name
Jap nationals or government. No other Jap assets
believed to be in Spanish Morocco or Tangier.
(Two) Estimated valte of trademarks listed
above unknown.
1946
(Three)
 wn claims.
(Four) No Jap supplies or materials captured
from or abandoned by Jap armed forces in this area.
(Five) None.
A copy
SECREY
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2- #332, September 5, 11 a.m., from Tangier.
A copy of this telegram is being sent to
Casablanca in order that Consulate General may reply
direct to Department, with cony to Tangier, concerning
any Japanese public or private assets in French zone.
In this connection reference 1s made to LEGTEL 314,
October 24, 1945 re official Jap archives and assets.
REDEPCIRCTEL August 15 re Jap assets.
ALLING
NOTE:
Measage delayed in transmission.
BB:ES
SECRET

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
522 FIFTH AVENUE. NEW YORK 18. N. Y.
VANDERBILT 6-0865
WILLIAM G. WERNER
CABLE ADDRESS: USTRADMARK, NEW YORK
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
KENNETH PERRY
VICE-CHAIRMAN
VICTOR D. BROMA
INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE
VICE-CHAIRMAN
STEPHEN P. LADAS, CHAIRMAN
GEORGE 8. MCMILL
VICE-CHAIRMAN
FRANK D. WATERMAI
TREASURER
HENRY B. KING
SECRETARY
October 17, 1947
Lir. Raymond Vermon
International Resources Division
Department of State
Jashington, D. C.
Dear Lr. Vermon:
I an sending a formal letter to the State Department in connection
with the provisions relating to industrial property in the Japanese
Peace Treaty, copyof which is enclosed herewith.
This was written on beialf of tie Intermational Committee of the
United States Trade Mark Association, but since I Imow that your
Division is woriing on this roblem, I have thought I would send
you this copy to be sure that you have the views of our committee
bofore you. Any information you may ive me as to the stage of
the preparation of this provision of the Treaty would be sincerely
appreciated.
With kindest re ards,
APR 26 1949
FILED
Sincerely,
CS/A
Thy U. he
Chajaman,
International Committee
TIE UITLD STATES TRADE ARR ASSOC IATICH
SPL:t
INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
OCT201947
94.543
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Rev
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
WILLIAM G. WERNER
KENNETH PERRY
VICTOR D. BROMAN
GEORGE S. MCMILLAN
FRANK D. WATERMAN. JR.
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE CO.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON
NATIONAL CARBON CO., INC.
BRISTOL-MYERS CO.
L. E. WATERMAN CO.
0
F. MOELLER
DONALD BROOKS
RICHARD S. HAYES
ARTHUR E. JOHNSTON
W. E. MACKAY
LEHN & FINK PRODUCTS CORP.
THE TEXAS CO.
THE OKONITE CO.
COLGATE-PALMOLIVE-PEET CO.
NATIONAL BISCUIT CO.
A. C. MACMAHON
HUGH F. MACMILLAN
N. M. PERRINS
W. G. REYNOLDS
THOMAS R. RUDEL
THE BORDEN CO.
THE COCA-COLA EXPORT CORP.
EASTMAN KODAK CO.
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO.
RUDEL MACHINERY CO., INC.
4
SHERWOOD E. SILLIMAN
E. M. SYMMES
ARTHUR R. WENDELL
VICK CHEMICAL CO.
HERCULES BOWDER CO.
THE WHEATENA CORPORATION

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
01947
In reply refer to
IR
894.543/10-1747
My dear Mr. Ladas:
I refer to your letter or October 17, 1947, en-
closing a copy of the recommendations of the United
States Trade Mark Association on provisions in the
Japanese Peace Treaty relating to industrial property.
I very much appreciete your bringing these views
to our attention. We are giving them detailed study.
and I shall communicate with you, should we need your
assistance in connection with them. A unilateral United
States version of the Treaty is now in the drafting stage
which will, of course, contain suitable provisions on
industrial property rights.
aE.
Sincerely yours,
Raymond Vernon
Assistant Chier, International
CS/A
Resources Division
ti
 304
894.543/
Mr. Stephen P. Ladas,
A true popy of
the ig
Chairman, International Committee,
nal
United States Trade Mark Association,
522 Fifth Avenue,
New York 18, New York.
10-1747
RCD
IR:RCDixon:mmp
10/29/47

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.94)
V121947
In reply refer to
IR
894.543/10-1747
My dear Mr. Ladas:
I refer to your letter of October 17, 1947, 1n which
you present recommendations of the United States Trade
Mark Association concerning trade mark provisions for
the Treaty of Peace with Japan.
You may rest assured that these recommendations
will be given the most serious consideration in the
drafting of the Treaty.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
C. Jyler Woad
Willard L. Thorp
DOR - ITP Unit
CS/V
for Econamis affairs
Anal.
Rev.
Cat.
Dist.
894.543
Mr. Stephen P. Ladas,
Chairman, International Committee,
United States Trade Mark Association,
CEPNW
源
522 Fifth Avenue,
47 p..
New York 18, New York.
NOV 10 94
3
RC1
IR:RCDixon:mmp
FE
A-T
10/29/47
U-F

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
Th UNITED STATES TRADE MARK ASSOCIATION
522 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 18. N. Y.
VANDERBILT 6-0865
WILLIAM G. WERNER
.CABLE ADDRESS: USTRADMARK, NEW YORK
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARB
AND PRESIDENT
KENNETH PERRY
VICE-CHAIRMAN
VICTOR D. BROMAN
INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE
VICE-CHAIRMAN
EORGE S. MCMILLAN
STEPHEN P. LADAS, CHAIRMAN
VICE-CHAIRMAN
347
FRANK D. WATERMAN. JR.
TREASURER
HENRY B. KING
SECRETARY
October 17, 1947
DEPT. OF STATE
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State
INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
Department of State
OCT 231947
Washington, D. C.
NOV 101947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Sir:
Our Association understands thatitethl de arthent is engaged in the
drafting of provisions relating to naustrial property for insertion
in the reace Treaty with Japan.
We have been receiving for some time past, suggestions from our
mombers callix our attention to special problems created in Japan
before the var with re ard to trade-naris, trade namos and indica-
tions of ori in of Americen products, and requesting that we make
submissions to the Department that these problems should be given
particular attention in drafting the provisions on industrial
property for this Treaty of Peace.
Indeed, in addition to the cenoral stipulations which are called for
with the view to re-establishing and rostoring industrial property
rigits of American nationals in Japan, stipulations similar to those
made in the Treaty of Peace with Italy, Hungary, Bulgaria, Rumania
and Finland and to be made in the Treaty of Peace with Germany, the
following particular problems concerning Japan require attention:
1. For several years prior to the outbreak of the war with
CS/A
Japan in 194l, American nationals experienced a decided bias by the
Japanese Patent Office in favor of Japanese epplicants for trade-
marks sirulating American trade-marks. In some cases where decisions
adverse to American trade-mark omers could not be showm to be based
on such bias, they were at least based on the Patent Office's view-
ing the similarity of the trade-marks from the point of view of the
phonetics involved in the transposition of the trade-marks into Jap-
anese ideographs. In other words, if a Japanese applicant filed
application for registration of a trade-mark consisting in a word in
the nglish language identical with the American trade-mark except
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
WILLIAM G. WERNER
KENNETH PERRY
VICTOR D. BROMAN
GEORGE S. MCMILLAN
FRANK D. WATERMAN. JR.
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE CO.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON
NATIONAL CARBON CO., INC.
BRISTOL-MYERS CO.
L. E. WATERMAN GO.
F. MOELLER
DONALD BROOKS
RICHARD S. HAYES
ARTHUR E. JOHNSTON
W. E. MACKAY
LEHN & FINK PRODUCTS CORP.
THE TEXAS CO.
THE OKONITE CO.
COLGATE-PALMOLIVE-PEET CO.
NATIONAL BISCUIT CO.
A. C. MACMAHON
THE BORDEN CO.
THE COCA-COLA EXPORT CORP.
HUGH F. MACMILLAN
EASTMAN KODAK CO.
N. M. PERRINS
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO.
W. G. REYNOLDS
RUDEL MACHINERY CO., INC.
THOMAS R. RUDEL
SHERWOOD E. SILLIMAN
E. M. SYMMES
ARTHUR R. WENDELL
VICK CHEMICAL CO.
HERCULES POWDER CO.
THE WHEATENA CORPORATION

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
The Honorable,
2
October 17, 1947
The Secretary of State
for the first letter, the Japanese Patent Office would grant regis-
tration for this mark merely because the transliteration of the two
trade-marks in Japanese ideographs would show the ideographs for the
first syllables of the two marks to be quite different. This,
however, did not eliminate actual confusion in Japan because of the
appearance of the two words end even their English promunciation by
a substantial part of the Japanese public; also this would enable the
Japanese applicant to export into foreign countries articles bearing
this trade-mark which was, in such countries, nearly identical to the
American mark inducing confusion and deception.
In order to correct this situation, we submit that the following
provision be inserted in the section on industrial property in the
Treaty of Peace with Japan:
"Japan undertakes to refuse or invalidate the
registration and to prohibit by appropriate means the use of
any trade-merk filed or used by a national of Japan which is
not clearly dissimilar from trade-marks belonging to nationals
of the Allied or Associate Powers and registered or used by
them in Japan."
"In considering whether a trade-mark filed, registered
or used by a national of Japan is similar to a trade-mark of a
national of the Allied or Associate Powers, it is understood
that similarity shall be judged not only by the equivalence of
the mark in Japanese ideographs but also by their sound or
appearance in the language in which the trade-mark of the na-
tionals of the Allied or Associate Powers is expressed."
It is, of course, to be expected that as a result of an incorporation
of such a provision in the Peace Treaty, Japan will adopt a cor-
responding provision in its trade-mark law so that the same may
become applicable to all trade-mark applicants and not only to Allied
nationals.
2. American manufacturers, as well as manufacturers of
other Allied countries, have experienced considerable difficulties in
Japan by reason of acts of unfair competition by unscrupulous Jap-
anese competitors by various means and particularly by the use of
false indications of origin. The latter was particularly encouraged
by the Japanese government conniving or closing its eyes to a
practice of renaming Japanese villages with the names of important
tradinglocalities in foreign countries which allowed Japanese imi-
tators to claim that their goods were made in these well known
foreign localities. Also Japanese exporters used marking indications

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
The Honorable,
#3
October 17, 1947
The Secretary of State
on their products were of an origin other than Japanese. Lastly,
false markings of weight and measure were used on imitation produots
capable of deceiving the consuming public.
It is believed that the most effective manner of dealing with these
practices is to incorporate in the Treaty with Japan the provisions
on Protection of Commercial Names, Repression of Unfair Competition,
Repression of False Indications of Origin and Remedies which are part
of the Inter-American Convention for Trade-Mark and Commercial Pro-
tection signed in Washington in 1929, the text of which is appended
hereto. These provisions are now the law between the United States
and the American Republics which have ratified the above Convention
and they appear to be suitable for insertion into the Treaty of
Peace with Japan.
It is further submitted that Japan may be required to provide that
all goods exported from Japan into foreign countries should be
clearly marked with the words "Made in Japan" translated into the
language of the country to which the goods are being imported, so
that their origin may be clearly indicated.
We sincerely believe that the above submissions are calculated to
protect the legitimate interests of American manufacturers and
traders, as well as of those of the other Allied countries, and we
trust that the Department of State may see fit to recommend the in-
sertion thereof in the Peace Treaty with Japan.
Respectfully,
Thy Vidu
ChajAman,
International Committee
THE UNITED STATES TRADE LARK ASSOC LATION
SPL:t

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL INTER-AMERIC AN C ONVENTION
FOR TRADE-LLARK AND COMMERC IAL PROTECTION
Signed At Washington, February 20, 1929
CHAPTER III
Protection of Commercial Names
Article 14
Trade-names or commercial names of persons entitled to the benefits of
this Convention siall be protected in all the Contracting States. Such
protection shall be enjoyed without necessity of deposit or registration,
whether or not the name forms part of a trade-mark.
Article 15
The names of an individual, surnames and trade-marks used by mamufac-
turers, industrialists, merchants or agriculturists to denote their
trade or calling, as well as the firm's name, the name or title legally
adopted and used by associations, corporations, companies or manufac-
turing, industrial, commercial or agricultural entities, in accordance
with the provisions of the respective national laws, shall be under-
stood to be commercial names.
Article 16
The protection which the Convention affords to commercial nemes shall be:
(a) To prohibit the use or adoption of a commercial name identical
with or deceptively similar to one legally adopted and previously used
by another engaged in the same business in any of the Contracting States;
and
(b) To prohibit the use, registration or filing of a trade-mark the
distinguishing elements of which consist of the whole or an essential
part of a commercial name legally adopted and previously used by another
owner domiciled or established in any of the Contracting States, engaged
in the manufacture, sale or production of products or merchandise of the
same kind as those for which the trade-mark is intended.
Article 17
Any manufacturer, industrialist, merchant or agriculturist domiciled or
established in any of the Contracting States, may, in accordance with the
laws and the legal procedure of such countries, oppose the adoption, use,
registration or deposit of a trade-mark for products or merchandise of the
same class as those sold under his commercial name, when he believes that
such trade-mark or the inclusion in it of the trade or commercial name or
a simulation thereof may lead to error or confusion in the mind of the
consumer with respect to such commercial name legally adopted and pre-
viously in use.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 18
Any manufacturer, industrialist, merchant or agriculturist domiciled or
established in any of the Contracting States may, in accordance with the
law and procedure of the country where the proceeding is brought, apply
for and obtain an injunction against the use of any commercial name or the
cancellation of the registration or deposit of any trade-mark, when such
name or mark is intended for use in the manufacture, sale or production
of articles or merchandise of the same class, b proving:
(a) That the commercial name or trade-mark, the enjoining or can-
cellation of which is desired, is identical with or deceptively similar
to his comnercial name already legally adopted and previously used in any
of the Contracting States, in the manufacture, sale or production of
articles of the same class, and
(b) That prior to the ado tion and use of the comnercial name, or to
the adoption and use or application for registration or deposit of the
trade-mark, the cancellation of which is sought, or the use of which is
sought to be enjoined, he used and continues to use for the manufacture,
sale or production of the same products or merchandise his commercial name
adopted and previously usei in any of the Contracting States or in the
State in which cancellation or injunction is sought.
Article 19
The protection of commercial names shall be given in accordance with the
internal legislation and by the terms of this Convention, and in all cases
where the internal le islation permits, by the competent governmental or
administrative authorities whenever they have mowledge or reliable proof
of their legal existence and use, or otherwise upon the motion of any
interested party.
CHAITER IV
Repression of Unfair Competition
Article 20
Every act or deed contrary to conmercial cood faith or to the normal and
honorable development of industrial or business activities shall be con-
sidered as unfair competition and therefore, unjust and prohibited.
Article 21
The following are declared to be acts of unfair competition and unless
otherwise effectively dealt with nder the domest ic laws of the Contract-
ing States shall be repressed nder the provisions of this Convention:
(a) Acts calculated directly or indirectly to represent that the goods
or business of a manufacturer, industrialist, merchent or agriculturist
are the goods or business of another manufacturer, industrialist, merchant
2

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
or agriculturist of any of the other Contracting States, whether such
representation be made by the appropriation or simulation of trade-marks,
symbols, distinctive names, the imitation of labels, wrappers, containers,
commercial names, or other means of identification;
(b) The use of false descriptions of goods, by words, symbols or other
means tending to deceive the public in the country where the acts occur,
with respect to the nature, quality, or utility of the goods;
(c) The use of false indications of geographical origin or source of
goods, by words, symbols, orother means which tend in that respect to
deceive the public in the country in which these acts occur;
(d) To sell, or offer for sale to the public an article, product or
merchandise of such form or appearance that even though it does not bear
directly or indirectly an indication of origin or source, gives or pro-
duces, either by pictures, ornaments, or language employed in the text,
the impression of being a product, article or commodity originating,
manufactured or produced in one of the other Contracting States;
(e) Any other act or deed contrary to good faith in industrial, com-
mercial or agricultural matters which, because of its nature or purpose,
may be considered analogous or similar to those above mentioned.
Article 22
The Contracting States which may not yet have enacted legislation repressing
the acts of unfair competition mentioned in this chapter, shall apply to
such acts the penalties contained in their legislation on trade-marks or in
any other statutes, and shall grant relief by way of injunction against the
continuance of said acts at the request of any party injured; those causing
such injury shall also be answerable in damages to the injured party.
CHAPTER V
Repression of False Indications of Geographical Origin or Source
Article 23
Every indication of geographical origin or source which does not actually
correspond to the place in which the article, product or merchandise was
fabricated, manufactured, produced or harvested, shall be considered fraud-
ulent and illegal, and therefore prohibited.
Article 24
For the purpose of this Convention the place of geographical origin or
source shall be considered as indicated when the geographical name of a
definite locality, region, country or nation, either expressly and directly,
or indirectly, appears on any trade-mark, label, cover, packing or wrap-
ping, of any article, product or merchandise, directly or indirectly thereon
provided that said geographical name serves as a basis for or is the dom-
inant element of the sentences, words or expressions used.
Article 25
Geographical names indicating geographical origin or source are not
susceptible of individual appropriation, and may be freely used to indicate
the origin or source of the products or merchandise or his commercial
domicile, by any manufacturer, industrialist, merchant or agriculturist
established in the place indicated or dealing in the products there orig-
inating.
3

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 26
The indication of the place of geographical origin or source, affixed to
or stamped upon the product or merchandise, must correspond exactly to
the place in which the product or merchandise has been fabricated, manu-
factured or harvested.
Article 27
Names, phrases or words, constituting in whole or in part geographical
terms which through constant, general and reputable use in commerce have
come to form the name or designation itself of t he article, product or
merchandise to which they are applieu, are exempt from the provisions of
the preceding article; this exception, however, does not include regional
indications of origin of industrial or agricultural products the quality
and reputation of which to the consuming public depend on the place of
production or origin.
Article 28
In the absence of any special remedies insuring the repression of false
indications of geographical origin or source, remedies provided by the
domestic sanitary laws, laws dealing with misbranding and the laws
relating to trade-marks or trade-nanes shall be applicable in the Con-
tracting States.
CHAPTER VI
Remedies
Article 29
The manufacture, exportation, importation, distribution, or sale is
forbidden of articles or products which directly or indirectly infringe
any of the provisions of this Convention with respect to trade-mark pro-
tection; protection and safe uard of conmercial names; repression of
unfair competition; and renression of false indications of geographical
origin or source.
Article 30
Any act prohibited by this Convention will be repressed by the competent
administrative or judicial authorities of the covernment of the state in
which the offense was con.itted, by the lecal methods and procedure
existing in said country, either by official action, or at the request
of interested parties, Who may avail thomselves of the rights and remedies
afforded by the laws to secure indemnification for the damage and loss
suffered; the art icles, products or merchandise or their marks, which are
the instrumentality of the acts of unfair competition, shall be liable
to seizure or destruction, or the offending markings obliterated, as the
case may be.
4

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 31
Any manufacturer, industrialist, merchant or agriculturist, interested
in the production, manufacture, or trade in the merchandise or articles
affected by any prohibited act or deed, as well as his agents or
representatives in any of the Contracting States and the consular
officers of the state to which the locality or region falsely indicated
as the place to which belongs the geographical origin or source, shall
have sufficient legal authority to take and prosecute the necessary
actions and proceedings before the administrative authorities and the
courts of the Contracting States.
The same authority shall be enjoyed by official conmissions or insti-
tutions and by syndicates or associations wiich represent the interests
of industry, agriculture or commerce and which have been legally
established for the defense of honest and fair trade methods.
5

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.93)
UNI TED STATES PFOLITICAL ADVISER
FOLICY FOR JAPAN
No. 53
1948 FEB 9 AM 11 23
Tokyo, January 24, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
MESATER
Subject: Japanese Trademark "Permutit"
STATE
2
894.543/1-2448
PM
EC
C
E
The Honorable
C
ar
1P430
Washington.
876b.
ATYN
I have the honor to refer to the Department's une
C.PIL3
20: ∠E
numbered airmail instruction of October 29, 1947.con-
cerning a reported infringement by a Japanese company
FE
of the trademark "Permutit" of the Permutit Company of
New York.
oup
This instruction was referred to the Civil Property
Custodian, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, who has made the following report:
"1. The Japanose Government reports as
follows:
a. The trademarks were cancelled
16 September 1942 in accordance with the
Wartime Law of Industrial Property.
b. None of these trademarks are
used by a Japanese firm.
c. The Permutit Co., Ltd., had
been ordered to submit a report on its
use of the firm name.
2. Permutit Co., Ltd., has reported that it
decided to change its name to the Soft Water
Industrial Co., Ltd., at a meeting scheduled to be
held in December 1947.
3. The policy for the treatment of United
Nations-owned Japanese trademarks has not been
4.54
formulated. Upon formulation and approval of
such a policy, ample publicity and time will be
given
Co
FEB
INT
28
UNCLASSIFIED-RNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
FEB1
nED'

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's No. 53
January 24, 1948.
-2-
UNCLASSIFIED
given in order that all persons interested may
take such steps as may be necessary to protect
the rights which may be provided for therein."
Respectfully yours,
Wiieesee
W. J. Sebald
Acting Political Adviser
Original and ozalid to the Department.
854
RBFinn:cs
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
HUGO MOCk
ASHER BLUM
CABLEADDRESS
MOCKBLUM,NEWY
ALEX FRIEDMAN
TELEPHONES
Mock & BLum
LEXINGTON 2-
LEGAL ADVISER
COUNSELLORS AT LAW
PATENT AND TRADE MARK CAUSES
IO EAST 4OTH STREET
ENT OF STATE
768
NEW YORK 16,N.Y.
AC/R
LE/E
894.543/3-948
2
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
FSONOMIC AFFAIRS
Dear Sir:
OFFICE UF THE LEGAL ADVISER
Re: Japanese Patents & Trade Marks
On account of the experiences of American nationals
with the Japanese Patent Office before Pearl Harbor, I am
taking the liberty of making the suggestion that care should
be taken in any peace treaty, which is signed with Japan, that
the rights of United States nationals affecting their trade
marks and patents used in Japan should be carefully conserved
It was notorious among the patent profession in the
United States before Pearl Harbor, that the Japanese Patent
Office consistently favored Japanese nationals against nation
als of foreign countries where any question of ownership or
priority arose, whether trade marks or patents were in question.
Uniformly, trade mark decisions in interference cases were in
favor of Japanese nationals. In patent matters United States
attorneys had many disquieting experienoes in finding out that
inventions which were freely patented in all countries of the
world could not be patented in Japan if the applications were
made in the name of other than Japanese nationals.
It may be that a search of your files will indicate
FILHD
that at various times protests were made through the State
Department against theee practices of the Japanese Patent
Office, though no relief was ever secured by reason of such
894.543/3-94
protests. I am therefore taking the liberty of reminding you
that if and when a peace treaty is made with Japan, this ques.
tion of trade mark and patent rights of foreigners should not
C
be overlooked.
S
DCR - CLAIMS UNT
INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
Regly rxae 3/26/48 Keo
mal. 4.P
MAR 15 1948 File
DEPARTMENT OP STATE

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
APH 219481982
In reply refer to
IR 894.543/3-948
894.543/3-948
My dear Mr. Mock:
I refer to your letter of March 9, 1948 to the
Secretary of State, suggesting that provisions be in-
corporated in a treaty of peace with Japan to protect
the patent and trade-mark rights of United States
nationals.
The Department has for some time been aware of the
problems with respect to the protection of industrial
property rights of foreign nationals in Japan to which
you refer. It plans to urge inelusion in the treaty of
provisions designed to alleviate discrimination against
foreign nationals in this respect. It is possible, also,
that corrective action will be initiated before conclusion
of a peace treaty by the occupation authorities in Tokyo.
Sincerely yours,
Raymond Vernon
Assistant Chief, International
Resources Division
Mr. Hugo Mock,
CS/V
Mock & Blum,
10 East 40th Street,
0.46
New York 16, New York.
RCD
01m
IR:RCDixon:s1
ITP
OE
3-26-48
Ch
APR 2

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.94)
OF
POLICY
1948 APR 5 PM 2 11
Tokyo, March 25, 1948.
No. 196
MESSAGE JENTER
UNCLASSIFIED
INTERNATIONAL RESQUACES DIVISION
Flonc at
S.
APR7 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Infringement of Trademarks and Trade-name
(9 AR
of Elizabeth Arden.
894.543/3-2548
C.P1)
enclose five copies of a directive (SCAPIN 5363-A)
directives to trademarks. The Japanese Government
the continuance of the trademark and trade-name in-
fringement of Elizabeth Arden by the firm Arden Beauty
20R
Salon, Tokyo, Japan. It is further directed to submit
to General Headquarters, Supreme Commender for the
Tre
Allied Powers, within thirty days from the date of the
enclosed directive, a full and complete report of action
taken in compliance therewith.
com - Jn
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CS/ A
RECE
Enclosure:
2
18
General Headquarters,
SCAP, Directive (SCAPIN
5363-A) dated March 6,
1948 (five copies).
5
Original and ozalid to the Department.
854
JDEdwards:cs
894.543
UNCLASSIFIED
APR 13 1948
FILED

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 196 dated March 25 1948 1
Office of the United States Political Adviser for Japai
Tokyo, entitled "Infringement of Trademarks and Trade-
of Elizabeth Arden"
GENERAL HEAD QUARTERS
SUPRENE COMMAN ER FOR THE ALLIED POVERS
4P0 500
AG 072 (6 Mεr 48 )CPC/PP
6 Maroh 1948
SCAPIN 5363-
MEMORALDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Applicution of Directives to Trademarks
1. Reference is made to the following:
a. Memorandum for the Japanese Government, file
AG 091.112 (13 Sep 45)MG, SCAPIN 26, 13 Septomber 1945, sub-
ject, "Protection of Allied and AxIs Proporty"
b. Memorandum for the Jaoanese Governmont, file
AG 130 (22 Sep 45)ESS, SCAPIN 45, 22 September 1945, subject,
"Control of Financial Transactions."
c. Memorandum for the Japanese Government, file
AG O72 (10 June 47)CPC/FP, 3C.PIN 1726, 10 June 1947, subject,
"application of irectives to Patents, Utility Models, Trade-
marks, esigns, and Copyri hta"
2. Attention is direct d to the fact that proper pro-
tection has not been ufford d by the Japunoso Government to
trademarks registcred on 7 cemner l941 in namos of United
Nations natiunals as requirud by ruferences la and lc ubove;
infringenent of tradomarks nd trade-name of Elizabeth Arden,
681 Firth Avenue, New York City, U.S.A., by the firm listed
below has been reported to Goneral Headquarters, Supreme Com-
mander for the Alli d Powers:
Ardon Boauty Salon, Kiya Buildine, Tokyo
3. The Japanese Governnent is directed to take all stops
necessary to prevent the continuance of tho trademark and trade-
name infringement describod in paragraph 2 above. The Japa-
nese.Governmen is further directed to submit to General Hoad-
quarters, Suprome Commander for the Allied Powers a full and
complete report of action taken in compliance with those instruc-
tions; report will be submittad within thirty days from dato of
this nororandum.
FOR THE SUPRMME CONMAN ER:
agehe
C&lonel, ..GD,
Adjutant Goneral.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
GUSTAV DREWS
ATTORNEY AT LAW
PATENTS
233 BROADWAY
AND
TRADE MARKS
RECEIVED
NEW YORK CITY
TEL. BARCLAY 7-7170
7
DC/R
DEPT OF STATE
SC/R
April 29, 1948
United States Embassy
Washington, D. C.
Sirs:
Will you kindly advise whether you now
permit the filing of trade-mark applications by
United States citizens in Japan, and if so a list
of reputable patent attorneys who are permitted to
file such applications in Japan, preferably Tokyo.
XR
Yoirs Aery truly,
103
GD:LL
GÚSTAV DREWS
CS/A
DO-CS 
894.543
a
nca
TEANATIONAL RESOURGES NIVISION
gile
MAY 4 1948
MAY 19 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FILED
4-2948

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
2013
32
In reply refer to
171948
IR 894.543/4-2948
My dear Mr. Drews:
894.543/4-2948
I refer to your letter of April 29, 1948 requesting
information as to whether United States citizens are now
permitted to file applications for registration of trade-
marks in Japan.
United States citizens are not at present permitted
to file applications with the Japenese Patent Office.
However, plans are now being made to permit such applica-
tions in the near future, probably before the end of the
year. It is expected that a public announcement will be
made at the appropriate time.
Sincerely ycurs,
For the Secretaryof State:
Raymond Vernon
AssistantChief, International
Resources Division
Mr. Gustav Drews,
233 Broadway,
New York 7, New York.
S
(C1)
IR:RcDixon:s1
E/E
0
5-10-48
MAY 17 1948
a
4
1019

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
FORN DS-202
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
11-20-46
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TRANSFER SHEET
The item of correspondence, formerly filed under the sumber showa on the extreme margia of
this sheet, has bees trassferred to the nmmber indicated.
TRANSFERRED TO
FORMER FILE NUMBER
FROM
TO
GUSTAV
DREWS
DATED
5/21/45
DATE OF TRANSFER
6/8/48
ANALYST'S INITIALS
915
REMARKS
COMMERCE
894.543
DEPT
5-2148

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
is assigned to
AMERIGAN CHEMICAL PAINT COMPANY
WALKERVILLE
CANADA
RECEIVED
GENERAL OFFICES AND FACTORY
6335 PALMER AVE.,EAST
DETROIT II, MICH.
AMBLER,PA.
JUL  1S
DEPT. OF STAE
D/R
DC/R
June 30, 1948
894.543/6-3048
U. S. Department of State
State Department Building
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:
We have been informed by the National Foreign Council Inc.
that representatives of this organization consulted with represen-
tatives of the Lepartmert of State on April 21, 1948 regarding the
future position of Japanese Patents and Trademarks.
We would appreciate being advised when it is possible to
file Patent and Trademark Applications in Japan and al so the various
rules and regulations which will govern such commercial activities.
Very truly yours,
ALERICAN CHEMICAL PAINT COMPANY
CS/A
R. W. GAN NON
RWG:AC
DCAMS UNIT
894.543
INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
GD ) 14
JUL6 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
JUL 23 1948
Diin
2124

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
619-A
JU22
In reply refer to
894.543/6-3048
IR 894.543/6-3048
My dear Mr. Gannon:
I refer to your letter of June 30, 1948, in which
you ask whether it is possible to file patent and trade-
mark applications in Japan and inquire concerning the
rules and regulations for such aling.
At the meeting on April 21 to which you refer,
representatives of the National Foreign Trade Council
were informed that the policy of this Government as
presently formulated calls for the revalidation and
restoration of patent rights of foreign nationals upon
application by them. Coordinate with such action,
applications by foreign nationals for new patents would
be permitted. The representatives of the Trade Council
also were informed that, owing to the necessity of
obtaining the concurrence of other governments in the
policy, there would likely be some delay before its
implementation. It is, however, expected that the
policy will be placed in effect before the end of the
CS/ V
year, and it is anticipated that a public announcement
will be made at the appropriate time. The procedures
for filing will of course be announced at the same time.
With respect to trademarks, policy development is
not as far advanced as is the case with patents, but
we hope that similar action can be taken concurrently
with respect to them.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretery of State:
Raymond Vernon
CR
Assistant Chief, International
JUL
948 A.M
Resources Division
elgned erigt-
Mr. R. W. Gannon,
American Chomical Paint Company,
IR:RCD:prg
IKE
884134
7-14-48

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.93)
CORN PRODUCTS REFINING COMPANY
17 BATTERy PLAcE
New YoRk 4, N. Y.
ExECUTIVE OPFICEs
September 30, 1948
Er. Edward M. Hartin, Chief
Japanese and Korean Economic Affairs
State Depurtment
Washington, D. C.
Re: Nirpon Kokusan Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha -
Hirpon Kosusan Kako Kabushiki Kaisha
Dear r. Martin:
It has come to our attention that certain former
officials of the Itsubichi Truding Company in Japan beve
just organizeu t pusines. there under the name "Nippon
894.543/9-3048
Koxus n Kako Kabusniki Kaisha", with an office at No. 12
S-chome Marunouchi, ch yodako, Tokyo.
As you will r call, or suosidiury In Japan,
which vts orgat.1zeu in lu30, is nameu "wippon Kokusan
Xoayo Kabushiki Mais e". Ther is an oovious similarity
or hasnes uni one which w. woula like to have diseontinued.
I mi nt add thit the translation of our sub-
stulury's nue 1s "Jupn Corn Produets R fining Company",
and the tran lu tion of the new Jupunese comp any is "Japan
Corn Iroduetr he: ic 1 Processin Company". Thus, in
En lish as well as in Jupanese, there is a close and con-
fusin similarity, emounting, in our opinion, to what is
knon under our luw as unfair competition.
We take the position that, being prior in time
as far as use of the nume is concerneu, we ure entitled to
such name.
Would you be ood enough to a livise whe ther there
Is anythi that the Stute Depart ent, acting through its
re re entalives in Japen, can do for us in this connection.
CSA
Very truly yours,
Wanen S. Adaus ld
OFFICE OF
en S. Adams, 2nd
TERNATIONAL
NTERNATIUAL IPADE POLICY
Attorney
WSA:MC
CCT-1 1948
00T4 1948
FILED
27198
 ATMENT OF STATE
SCJL

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
OCT151948
My dear r. Adams:
eceipt is acknowledged of your letter of September 30,
1948, addressed to r. Fdward M. artin, inquiring whether the
Departnent can initiate action to have a local Japanese con-
894.543/9-3048
cern, recently organized, discontinue the use of its existing
trade name because of its similarity to that of your aubsidiary
in Japan.
2
2
Your represent tion has been forwarded to the Department
20
of the Army with the reguest that the matter be investigated
in Tokyo.
I shall conmunicate with you further when we have received
the results of this investigation.
TW
incerely yours,
yt
Raymond Vernon
Assistant Chief, International
Resources Division
CS
48
Mr. arren S. Adams,
A
894.543/9.3048
Corn roducts efining Compeny,
17 Dattery Place,
New York 4, New York.
ITP-IR-JLightman:prg
10-11-48
gruh
0-346

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.94)
DC/R
DFC. 1194
In reply refer to
IR
FHOTL
My dear General Eberle:
I am submitting herewith a paper on the treatment
894.543/12-148
of Japanese trade-marks for your consideration as the
State-Army position on this subject. It was drafted
by an ad hoc State-Army working group and has the pro-
visional approval of the Army members of the group. An
earlier version was submitted to SCAp for his views,
which have been taken into account in subsequent revision.
The paper in its present form has the approval of the
State Department.
It is contemplated that, following the adoption of
a State-Army position, the substantive policy provisions
will be forwarded to the Far Eastern Commission for its
approval. I should, therefore, appreciate receiving an
early renly DooaxyoxxaonaDndaxgxyou0comoexx
eurpawx, in order that we may expedite the ado tion of
an FEC policy.
Sincerely yours,
f
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
S
Enclosure:
CR
Paper entitled "Policy
on the Treatment of
Brigadier General George L. Eberle,
isn cleal p
Chief, Civil Affairs Division,
torll.
Department of the Army:
80m
Rc
RBS
ITP:IR:RCDixon:s1
ITP
OFD
LE
NA
10-28-48
O:CVHulick:MMF
12/1/4
Cartoolion. tte
3
with ihan
FNTIAL

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.93)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Me. itulich - of fr ces nprctul.
DATE: 11/26/48
To : 0 - Mr Claxton
T2
FROM : O - J. W. Auchincloss
twt
SUBJECT :
Attached is a proposed letter for
Mr. Saltzman's signature regarding the paper
on Japanese trademarks which the Army has
been asking for. It is now fully cleared in
the Department. I hope you will find the
paper sufficiently summarized in the memoran-
dum from Dixon to me, which is also attached.
Attachments:
Letter,
Paper,
Wemo,

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.96)
Office MeMorandum· UNITED STATES GOVE
to : O - Mr. John W. Auchincloss
DATE: November 26
RLD
FRoM : IR - Mr. Roger C. Dixon
SUBJECT:
Policy on the Treatment of Japanese Trade-marks.
CONFIDENTIAL
The attached p per is a proposed United States position
on the subject. Following its aprroval by the State and
Army Departments, it will le transmitted to SCAP by the
Army for his inforration, and the surstantive provisions
will be transmitted to the Far Eastern Comrission for a
policy decisior.
The peper treets four gen ral problems, as follow:
1. Use of nisleacing and deceptive practices in the
trade-merk fiel notoriously employed by the Japanese in
the past.
There ere two provis'ons ir. the paper designed to
solve tris problem. First, raragraph 4 provides that
foreign nationsls mey petition the Japenese Patent Office
Fw
for the cancel ation of rarks registered in Japan which
so resemble their marks ps to cause deception or confusion.
It also recommencs the st hlistment of adequate regulations
189
to prevent the registration in Japan of such marks in the
future. Second, paregraph 5 calls for a revision of an
existing Japanese law for the prev ntion of unfair competi-
tion so as to make it unlewful to use, in either domestic
or export trade, false or misleacing designetions of origin
or descrintions of articles.
2.
Trade-merks of reconstituted firms.
Paragraph 6 provides princirles for the disposition
of the trade-m rk rights of rirms or related groups of
firms into indepenuent enterprises, in order to avoid
the use by two or more such independent firrs of the same
marks. Since this paragraph is designed to aid in the
implementation of existing FEC policy, it will not be sub-
ritted to the Commission.
3.
Treatment of foreien rights.
PaYagraph 7 recommends a general formula, besed upon
DEC 13 1948
FILED
ou
those contained in existing peace treaties, under which
trade-mark
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
trade-merk rights in Japan of Allied nationals which were
seized or otherwise invalidated during the war should be
revalidated and restored to their former owners. This
paragraph also provides for extension of the period of
rriority norrally granted under the International Conven-
tion for the Protection of Industrial Property for those
cases in vhich filing in Japan was impossible owing to the
war.
4.
Treatment of Jananese trade-marks in other countries.
Faregraph 9 of the peper is in the form of a recom-
rendation by the Fac to countries vhich have been at war
with Japr, with respect to the Cisposition of existing
Jancnese rights wrich were vested during the war, and to
t'e accentance by such courtries of applicet:ons from
Japenese for new trade-mark rights. These provisions have
heen cdonted from a rreviously-developed parallel policy
on the disnosition of German trade-marks.
CONFIDENT.AL
ITD:IR:RCDixon:s1

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
November 26, 1948
O - Mr. John W. Auchincloss
IR - Mr. Roger C. Dixon
Policy on the Treatment of Japanese Trade-marks.
CONFIDENTIAL
The attached paper is a proposed United States position
on the subject. Following its approval by the State and
Army Departments, it will be transmitted to SCAP by the
Army for his information, and the substantive provisions
will be transmitted to the Far Eastern Commission for a
policy decision.
The paper treats four gen ral problems, as follows:
1. Use of misleading and decentive practices in the
trade-mark field notoriously employed by the Japanese in
the past.
There are two provisions in the paper designed to
solve this problem. First, paragraph 4 provides that
foreign nationals may petition the Japanese Patent Office
for the cancellation of marks registered in Japan which
so resemble their marks as to cause deception or confusion.
It also recommends the establishment of adequate regulations
to prevent the registration in Japan of such marks in the
future. Second, paragraph 5 calls for a revision of an
existing Japanese law for the prevention of unfair competi-
tion so as to make it unlawful to use, in either domestic
or export trade, false or misleading designations of origin
or descriptions of articles.
2.
Trade-marks of reconstituted firms.
Paragraph 6 provides principles for the disposition
of the trade-mark rights of firms or related groups of
firms into independent enterprises, in order to avoid
the use by two or more such independent firms of the same
marks. Since this paragraph is designed to aid in the
implementation of existing FEC policy, it will not be sub-
mitted to the Commission.
Treatment of foreign rights.
Paragraph 7 recommends a general formula, based upon
those contained in existing peace treaties, under which
trade-mark
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
trade-mark rights in Japan of Allied nationals which were
seized or otherwise invalidated during the war should be
revalidated and restored to their former owners. This
paragraph also provides for extension of the period of
priority normally granted under the International Conven-
tion for the Protection of Industrial Property for those
cases in which filing in Japan was impossible owing to the
war.
4.
Treatment of Japanese trade-marks in other countries.
Paragraph 9 of the paper is in the form of a recom-
mendation by the FEC to countries which have been at war
with Japan, with respect to the disposition of existing
Japanese rights which were vested during the war, and to
the acceptance by such countries of applications from
Japanese for new trade-mark rights. These provisions have
been adopted from a previously-developed parallel policy
on the disposition of German trade-marks.
CONFIDENTIAL
ITP:IR:RCDixon:s1

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
SPECIAL STAFF, UNITED STATES ARMY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
CSCAD O14 Japan
7 December 1948
Cpy
F. Dikn 9R
l.r. Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary of State
Recid
Dell - kot
Department of State
Dear Ir. Saltzman:
Your letter dated 1 December 1948 inclosing a proposed policy
statement on treatment of Japanese trademarks has been carefully
considered.
I do not feel the chan es made in the original draft prepared
by the ad hoc State-Army working group alter the substance or in-
tent of the paper. The policy as now written is acceptable to
the Depart. ment of the Army.
It is our understanding that the Department of State will now
attonpt to obtain the concurrence of other interested governmental
agencies, and will advise the Army when concurrence has been ob-
tained to the end that SCAP may have the benefit of the views of
this Government on this proble.. at an early date.
894.54
Sincerely yours,
Boberle
G. L. EBERLE
Brigadier General, USA
3
Chief, Civil Affairs Division
12-748
EATCF STATE
948 E1E 1 1 24
CONFIDENTIAL
4581
ji4sv

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
WAR DEPARTMENT
WAR DEPARTMENT SPECIAL STAFF
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
CSCAD 091.31
13 December 1948
894.543/12-1348
Office of the Assistant Secretary of State for
Occupied Areas
Attention: Mr. C. V. Hulick
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Hulick:
Reference is made to memorandum from the Department of State
dated 1l October 1948, concerning the similarity of trade names
of two firms in the Corn Products industry in Japan; one of which
is an American subsidiary.
In connection with the above, and in reply to letter, 22 Octo-
ber 1948 file AGAO-C O95 Corn Products Refining Co. (19 Oct 48)
CSCAD, concerning this matter, SCAP has advised, by letter, 26 Nov-
ember 1948 AG 095(220ct48)CPC/FP (copy attached) that the Japanese
Government has been directed to take action to prevent the con-
tinuance of any use of a trade name similar to "Nippon Kokusan
Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha" and that details of action taken will be
forwarded when received from Japanese Government.
CS/A
Sincerely yours,
894.543/1
Incl:
T. S. RIGGS
Ltr fr SCAP to
Colonel, GSC
AGD, dtd 26 Nov 48
Deputy Chief, Civil Affairs Division
MC
FEB 28 1949
2-134
FILUD
24209
0-45-5

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
GENERAL HEADQU ARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
VIA-AIR-MAIL
AG O95 (22 Oct 48)CPC/FP
26 November 1948
SUBJECT: Investigation of Trade Names within Corn Products Industry
in Japan
TO:
The Adjutant General
Department of the Army
Washington 25, D. C.
1. Reference is made to your letter, 22 October 1948, file
AGAO-C O95 Corn Products Refining Co.(19 Oct 48)CSCAD, subject,
"Request for investigation of Trade Names within Corn Products Industry
in Japan," requesting an investigation regarding the use by a Japanese
firm of a trade name similar to that of a Japanese subsidiary of Corn
Products Refining Company.
2. A directive has been issued to the Japanese Government
requiring that necessary action be taken to prevent the continuance
of any use of a trade name similar to "Nippon Kokusan Kogyo Kabushiki
Kaisha." Details of action taken will be forwarded upon receipt of
same from the Japanese Government.
FOR THE SUPREME COLMANDER:
/s/ R. M. Levy
/t/ R. M. LEVY
Colonel, AGD
Adjutant Ganeral
0-4551

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.81)
cceiut in soknowledger of your letter of Saptember ,
1943, addrensad to . werd. artin, imuirin whether ine
epartsnt cau -litiate sotion to have è lecel Jepanese com
ceru, erentiv argaalscd, dizcontinve the ure ef its arieti
troe par cause : ite si ila lty to toet of your ouboidiary
i n
kner reurnsentstinn tar  er ferweried to the tepartment
of var ry witn the rgst hat the ratter be invetigated
in
I ahell e xunionte wit ou further when e have reeeived
t
Ineercly yours,
Ansistant Chies, laterastional
"esaurses civision
dr. arren S. Ademe,
Cor Totuats efling ospery,
17 battery Place,
Ye York 4, "ow York.
ITP-I-JLAhtaniprg
10-11-48

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
CORN PRODUCTS REFINING COMPANY
17 Battery Place
New York 4, N. Y.
September 30, 1948
Mr. Edward M. Martin, Chief
Japanese and Korean Economis Affairs
State Department
Washingon, D. C.
Re: Nippon Kokusan Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha -
Nippon Kokusan Kako Kabushiki Kaisha
Dear Mr. Nartin:
It has come to our attention that certain former
officials of the Mitsubishi Trading Company in Japan have
just organized a business there under the name "Nippon
Kokusan Kako Kabushiki Kaisha", with an office at No. 12
2-chome Marunouchi, Chiyodako, Tokyo.
As you will recall, our subsidiary in Japan,
which was organized in 1930, is named "Nippon Kokusan
Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha". There is an obvious similarity
of names and one which we wuld like to have discontinued.
I might add that the translation of our sub-
sidiary's name is "Japan Corn Products Refining Company",
and the translation of the new Japanese company is "Japan
Corn Products Chemical Processing Company". Thus, in
English as well as in Japanese, there is a close and con-
fusing similarity, amounting, in our opinion, to what is
known under our law as unfair competition.
We take the position that, being prior in time
as far as use of the name is concerned, we are entitled to
such name.
Would you be good enough to advise whether there
is anything that the State Department, acting through its
representatives in Japan, can do for us in this connection.
Very truly yours,
Warren S. Adams, 2nd
Attorney

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
X
xecutive offiee, Civil affairs
Oeteber 11, 1945
Divislon, Departeent of the Aray
Offiee of the Assistant Seerstary of State
for Ocoupied Areas ().
Request for Investigation by sCAP to Jetermine the xtent of Eafair
Compotition Croated by the Similarity of Trade Names Within the Refined
Corn roduets Industry.
The tate epartment has received a comunication from the Corn
Products nefining Co. of Msw York, indieating that certain former
officials of the .itsubishi Trading Compeny have orgazises a business
in Japan under the trade name "Nippcn Kokusan Kako Ka ushiki Kaieha",
with an offies at No. 12 2 chome Marunonchi, Chiyodako, Tokyo.
The Japaneee auceidiary f Corn Produets Hefining Co. is kmown
as "Nigpon Kokusan Kogyo Kabushiki Yaiane." It was organised in 1930.
Th: transiation of the new Japanese Company's pame is "Jepan Corm
Frocucts Chemical Procecsins Co." The Ameriemn suhsidiary's name whem
translate: is "Japan Corn Produets : -fining Co." The American company
takes the position that this close similarity in the nazes of the two
companies, in Japanese as well as Pnglish, is resulting in unfair
cospetition with their previcusly steblished merican suhsidiary.
it is requeste: thst the Department of the Arry ask CAp to
iovestiree the eitustion, and if eppropriete, takr eny action reguired
to eliminste the existence o: any unfair trade practices in violation of
Jupanese statutes which result from the similarity of the two trade names.
Hul1ck
Executive Assistant to the
Assistant "ecretary for
Occupied Areas
ITP-It-JLightman: prg

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.95)
DFC22194
894.543
My dear Mr. Adams:
8Gc/513/9-30√8
Further reference is made to your letter of September 30,
2-1348
1948, asking whether action could be initiated to prevent the
use by a local Japanese concern in Tokyo of a trade name
similar to that of your subsidiary in Japan.
he have been advised by the Department of the Army that the
Japanese Government has been directed to take action to prevent
the continuance of any use of a trade name similar to Nippon
Kokusan Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha".
Sincerely yours,
TW
CS/A
df
laymond Vernon
Assistant Chief, International
Resources Division
r. Warren S. Adams,
Tnew
Corn Products Refining Company,
17 Battery Place,
New Yorh, New York.
DEC 22 194
ITP: IR:JMLightman:prg
12-21-48
-13×8

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.94)
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL, INC.
111 BROADWAY · NEW YORK 6, N. Y.
DEC3119
Telephome: Dlaby 9.2720
Cable Addrese. NAPTRAC
December 20, 1948
Mr. Roger C. Dixon
International Resources Division
Department of State
894.543/12-2048
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Dixon:
One of our members reports that it had several trademark
registrations in Japan that would ordinarily be due for renewal
in 1950, 1953, and 1957. Please advise us whether any trademarks
registered in the name of American nationals, were cancelled by
R
the Japanese during the War and what action, if any, should be
taken in order to protect such trademarks.
Yours truly,
Aowth (s. Brad
Joseph B. Brady
Assistant Director
Foreign Property Division
JAN 241949
JBB:VB
FILED
15639
ab
894.543
CS/B
ITERNATIONAL RESOUISES DIVISION
Rep (g 12/23 RCD
DEC 22 1948
File
12-20%
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
477

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
30090
119
894.543/12-2048
In reply refer to
IR
My dear Mr. Brady:
I refer to your letter of December 20, 1948 to
Mr. Dixon, requesting informetion concerning the status
of trade-mark rights of United States nationals in Japan.
With respect to your query as to whether any trade-
marks registered in the name of American nationals were
cancelled by the Japanese during the war, we do not have
any separate figures available concerning United States-
owned marks. However, only a little over fifty of all
the foreign-owned trade-marks in Japan were cancelled
under the wartime Law on Industrial Property. A sig-
nificant number of foreign-owned marks lapsed during the
war for non-payment of renewal fees.
It is planned that all trade-marks which were owned
by foreigners at the start of the war will be restored
to them upon application. This action should be possible
in the fairly near future, and a public announcement
will be made at the appropriate time. It will, of course,
be possible at that time for foreign nationals to take
all necessary action to orotect their rights and renew
them where necessary.
Sincerely yours,
'W
Raymond Vernon
Assistant Chief, International
Resources Division
ME
Mr. Joseph B. Brady,
CR
DEC 30 1948
Assistant Director,
Foreign Property Division,
C
National Foreign Trade Council, Inc.,
S
111 Broadway,
New York 6, New York.
B
ITP:IR:RCDixonss1
dut
12-23-48
mir
4777

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
CORN PRODUCTS REFINING COMPANY
17 BATTERY PLACE
NeW YoRK 4, N.Y.
DEC 2 8 1948
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
December 27, 1948
The Secretary of State
894.543/12-2748
Washington
D. C.
Attention: Mr. Raymond Vernon,
Assistant Chief
International Resources
Division
Dear Mr. Vernon:
This will acknowledge with thanks receipt
of your letter of December 22 with reference to the
prevention of the use of a trade name similar to
Nippon Kokusan Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha by a new
Japanese company.
We are very much obliged to you for the
expeditious handling of this matter.
CS/JEC
Very truly yours,
Warren S. Adams, 2nd
FILED
Attorney
894.543/.2-2748
WSA:MC
A2
159393

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
CONF.DENT.AL
DEC291948
In reply refer to
IR
15271
894.543/12-2948
My dear Mr. Bazelon:
There is attached a paper entitled "Policy on the
Treatment of Japanese Trade-marks". It constitutes the
position on the subject upon which the Departments of
State and the Army have agreed.
You will note that the subject of the treatment of
Japanese trade-mark rights in foreign countries is taken
up on page 6 of the Conclusions and in the supporting dis-
cussion on pages 18-20. We would appreciate your giving
consideration to this section of the paper. It is hoped
that you will find it consistent with your own policy on
the subject. If this is the case, the paper will be
forwarded to the Supreme Commander in Tokyo as a state-
ment of United States policy, and will be presented to
the Far Eastern Commission with the view to obtaining
a policy decision by that body.
In order that the adoption of a final policy on
this subject may be expedited, this Department would
appreciate receiving an eerly reply from you.
CS/A
Sincerely yours,
Willard:L. Thorp
Asaistant Secretary
Enclosure:
810
Policy on the Treat-
DEC
DEU:9 1948
ment of Jananese Trade-
marks.
David L. Bazelon,
Assistant Attorney General
W
Director, Office of Alien Property,
Department of Justice.
ITP: IR:RCDixon:sl
NA
12-22-48
CONFDENT
1013

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
Prit
ACTION
31801
FAR EAST-AMERICA COUNCIL
is assigned to
APP5
of COMMERCE and INDUSTRY, Inc.
30 ROCKEFELLER PLAZA
NEW YORK 20, NEW YORK
TELEPHONE COLUMBUS S-6375
MAR
March 2nd 1949
POLICY
 F 
1949
DIVISION OF ECONOMIC PROPERTY
LEGAL ADVISER
894.543/3-249
991-
APR 1 8 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Mr. Secretary:
The members of the Far East-America Council of
Commerce and Industry are much concerned with the problems sur-
rounding the full scale resumption of private trade between the
United States and Japan and the fundamental issues relating to
foreign investment there.
In this connection, one of the basic problems is
the adequate protection in Japan of American trade-marks, patents
and copyrights. The views of our Council on this matter are
embodied in the attached memorandum entitled "Recommendations on
Japan Trademarks, Patents and Copyrights".
It is the Council's hope that the recommendations
submitted in the memorandum may be brought to the attention of
and given consideration by the administrative officials concerned.
Any cooperation which the Department of State may
give us in this regard will be greatly appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
CothurB. Toife
CS/MC
Arthur B. Foye
President
enrlact
The Honorable
Dean Acheson
claims
894.543
Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington (25) D. C.
APR 28 1949
INTERNATIONAL RESOUROES DIVISION
MTH
27453

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
FÁR EAST-AMERICA COUNCIL
OF
COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY, INC.
30 ROCKEFELLER PLAZA
NEW YORK 20, N. Y.
RECOMMENDATIONS ON JAPAN TRADE-MARKS, PATENTS AND COPYRIGHTS
Under a directive to the Japanese Government dated September 7,
1948 by SCAP, authorization was given for the Japanese Patent Office to accept
and process applications for patents, utility models and designs by persons out-
side Japan. A supplementary directive of October 5, extended this authorization
to the filing and processing of p plications for trade-marks.
No change in the basic Patent, Design and Trade-Mark Laws of Japan
has been made and no provisions have been adopted for the re-establishment of
rights in industrial property that may have been lost by reason of the war or
may have been affected by virtue of the war conditions.
We understand that a full program concerning provisions akin to
those usually inserted in the Treaties of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation is
now before the Far Eastern Commission of the Allied Governments for its approval.
It is hoped that such approval may be given by this Commission and go into effect
without waiting for the conclusion of the Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and
Navigation. This, it was hoped, might forestall a later reopening of the issue
in connection with the drafting of a Treaty with Japan.
While provisions in the Program referred to, submitted to the Far
Eastern Commission of the Allied Governments, have not been made known, the Far
East-America Council of Commerce and Industry wishes to point out several factors
of concern to American business and to recommend consideration of the following
basic and desirable provisions:

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
TRADE-MARKS
(1) Considerable difficulty was experienced before the war in obtaining
adequate protection for American trade-marks in Japan against infringement.
While a United States National could apply for registration of his
trade-mark in Japan and be assured of receiving about the same kind of treatment he
would get in the patent office of any country where an examination of prior
registration is made, including the granting of an opportunity to present arguments
designed to overcome official objections to any prior registration cited against
his application, and while the Japanese law provides that a party who has used
his mark in Japan without registration, to such an extent that it has been well
known in business circles there, may oppose the application of another party for
registration of that or a closely similar mark, for the same or similar goods,
there is no doubt that Japanese businessmen were among the worst of trade-marks
pirates in any part of the world. Any foreign manufacturer who sold goods in
Japan without registering his trade-mark could be fairly sure that an attempt to
register his mark would be made by someone in Japan.
The chief difficulty was found in the frequent "technical views"
of the Japan Patent Office, when attempts were made to construe similarity of
trade-marks by transposing American words into the phonetics of corresponding
Japanese ideographs.
In other words, if a Japanese applicant filed application for
registration of a trade-mark consisting in a word in the English language identical
with the American trade-mark except, for instance, for the first letter, the
Japanese Patent Office would grant registration for this mark merely because the
transliteration of the two trade-marks in Japanese ideographs would show the
ideographs for the first syllables of the two marks to be quite different. This,
however, did not eliminate confusion in Japan because of the appearance of the

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
~ 3 -
:
two words and of their English pronunciation by a substantial part of the
Japanese public. Also, this enabled the Japanese applicant to export into foreign
countries articles bearing this trade-mark which was in such countries nearly
identical to the American trade-mark.
To correct this situation, the Japanese trade-mark law should
be amended to provide that similarity between two trade-marks
shall be judged not only by the equivalence of such trade-marks
in Japanese ideographs but also by their sound or appearance in
the language in which the foreign trade-mark is expressed.
(2) Japanese manufacturers or merchants have been engaged systematically
before the war in imitation of American or other foreign marks with false
indication or origin. It would appear that the Japanese Government furthered
this by permitting the practice of renaming Japanese villages with the names of
important trading localities in foreign countries. This allowed Japanese imitators
to give the impression that their goods were made in these well-knovm foreign
localities, and they sent goods so marked abroad for sale in other countries, in
the hope that they would be accepted as goods coming from a country with a better
reputation for the manufacture of honest merchandise than was enjoyed by the
Japanese. A favorite practice was to put a mark of origin, indicating manufacture
in the United States, on goods intended for sale in South and Central America.
The folloving provisions are considered necessary for the purpose
of putting an end to these unfair practices:
(A) Every indication of geographical origin or source which does
not actually correspond to the place in which the article,
product or merchandise was manufactured or produced shall
be considered fraudulent and illegal and therefore prohibited.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4-
Indication of geographical origin relating to localities in
Allied or Associated Powers shall always be prohibited.
(B) Japan undertakes to conform to the laws of and to the admin-
istrative and judicial decisions in force in any of the
Allied or Associated Powers which determine or regulate the
right or title to an indication of origin in respect of the
products or manufactured goods of any of these Powers. Japan
undertakes to prohibit and suppress by all appropriate means
the import, export, manufacture, distribution, sale or offer
for sale of goods bearing an indication of origin contrary to
the laws or decisions of the Allied or Associated Povers.
(C) Every act or deed contrary to commercial good faith or to the
normal and honorable development of industrial or business
activities shall be considered as unfair competition and
therefore. prohibited. As such acts shall be considered par-
ticularly:
(a) Acts calculated directly or indirectly to represent
that the goods or business of a manufacturer or
merchant in Japan are the goods or business of
another manufacturer or merchant of any of the
Allied or Associated Powers, whether such represen-
tation be made by the appropriation or imitation of
trade-marks, symbols, distinctive names, imitation
of labels, wrappers, containers or other means of
identification.
(b)
The use of false indications of geographical origin
or source of goods by words, symbols, or any other
means which tend to deceive the public.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
In the absence of any specific legislation suppressing such
acts of unfair competition, Japan shall apply thereto the
sanctions and penalties contained in the legislation on
trade-marks or any other statutes and shall grant relief
by way of injunction against the continuance of said acts
at the request of any party injured, while at the same time
the party causing such injury shall be answerable in damages.
NOTE
The suggestions made above are covered by the provisions of the International
Convention of 1883, as last amended at London in 1934. Japan ratified the 1934
Amendment in l938, and if she can be required to adhere to and give effect to
the Articles in the International Convention which are intended to give protection
against unfair competition and the false marking of goods, that would seem to be
sufficient. Attention is directed to Articles 9, 10, lObis and l0ter of the
International Convention as amended at London.
(3) During the war, many infringements of American trade-marks have
been indulged in in Japan and such marks have also been registered in the Japanese
Patent Office. It is believed advisable to relieve American trade-mark owners
from the necessity of having to engage in proceedings to eliminate these in-
fringing registrations from the record in Japan. Therefore, the following pro-
visionsshould be inserted:
(a) The Japanese Patent Office should publish a list of all foreign
language trade-marks which have been registered in the Patent
Office from September 3, 1939 to date of treaty.
(b) Any trade-marks or designs registered in Japan during the
period from September 3, 1939 to the coming into force of the
Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation by Japanese

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
nationals which are not clearly dissimilar from the trade-
marks or designs belonging to the Allied or Associated Powers
or their nationals, shall be deemed null and void and shall
be removed from the Register by the Japanese Patent Office
ex officio upon petition of any interested national and the
use of such trade-marks or designs shall be prohibited by
action of the Japanese Government on a similar petition by
an interested person.
A term of three years from a specified date might be provided
within which anyone interested could have a search made in the Japanese Patent
Office for the purpose of ascertaining if his particular mark has been
registered, and if a registration of it were found, he could apply for cancel-
lation of that registration on proof that he had registered the mark in his home
country for the goods in question.
(4)
Provisions must also be made for the re-establishment and restora-
tion of industrial property rights of Allied nationals affected by the war in
Japan similar to those inserted in the Treaties with Hungary, Finland, Italy,
Bulgaria and Roumania.
For several months prior to the actual beginning of the war with
Japan, communications by ship and airmail were not good and most Japanese patent
agents were imposing new conditions on their foreign correspondents as to sending
remittances with orders, and it is probable that some registrations lapsed
between January 1, 194l and December 8, 194l, although instructions were sent to
Japanese agents in time for the renewals to be effected under normal conditions.
In connection with the restoration of industrial property rights,
it is further suggested:

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
-7一
(a) That a definite term of one year be provided (to rum from a
specified date) for the filing of renewal applications in
respect of Japanese registrations due for renewal between
January 1, 194l and the specified date;
(b) That the requirement in the Japanese Trade-Mark Law for the
use of any mark in Japan be waived from January 1, 194l to
a date at least one year later than the specified date,
which would be considered to end abnormal conditions;
(c) That a term of six months from the specified date could also
be provided within which to file trade-mark applications in
Japan under the terms of the International Convention and to
claim belated priority rights.
PATENTS
(1) Provisions for the re-establishment and restoration of patent
rights and for extension of terms should be made similar to
those inserted in the Treaties with Hungary, Finland, Italy,
Roumania and Bulgaria.
(2)
The term of all patents in force in Japan and in the name of
nationals of Allied or Associated Powers on December 7, 1941
shall be extended for a period of 7 years.
(3) All patents of nationals of Allied or Associated Powers cancelled
by the Japanese War Legislation shall be reinstated.
(4) All taxes or annuities on patents which become due in Japan after
September 3, 1939 should be waived until December 31, 1948.
COPYRIGHTS
Under a Treaty with the United States dated November 10, 1905,
citizens of Japan are permitted to translate, without authorization, books,

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
i 8n
pamphlets and all other writings, dramatic works and musical compositions pub-
lished in the United States, and to print and publish such translations. This
Treaty was entered into at a time when the United States was anxious to have the
Japanese public absorb American ideas. Actually this was done at the expense of
the copyright proprietors in this country. The Japanese publishers amply took
advantage of this permission and it was impossible to suppress piratical
reproductions there.
Before the war Japan resisted all efforts of the United States to
revise this Treaty and protect American copyrights.
It is a principle of international law that a war abrogates exist-
ing treaties, unless the victor gives notice to the defeated power that it desires
a specified treaty to become effective again at the termination of the war.
It is submitted that the United States should definitely signify
to the Japanese Government that the above Treaty is to be deemed to
have been abrogated by the war and that a new treaty will be entered
into for the reciprocal protection of copyright between the two
countries. In the meantime, provision should be made by the Japanese
Government to protect American works subject, at most, to the
requirement that registration of the copyright may be made in Japan
within, say, a year from publication in the United States.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.93)
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL, ING
111 BROADWAY · NEW YORK 6, N. Y.
Telephons: Dlgby 9-2720
Cable Address. NAPTRAC
March 2, 1949
MAD211949
894.543/3-24
Mr. Roger C. Dixon, Assistant Chief
International Resources Division
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Dixon:
Subject: Trade-Marks
Is it possible to renew trade-marks in Japan ovmed by American
nationals registered prior to the war and not cancelled or
tatriy new
lapsed during the war?
Lavt kae ow-
Yours truly,
oreth is. iSraod
Joseph B. Brady
Assistant Director
Foreign Property Division
MAR 2 3 1949
CS/A
FILED
JBB:MM
894543
DITERATIGNAL RESOURSES BIVISION
Reply d. 3-21-49
MAR 4 1949 JML
BEPARTHENT OF STATE
3-24
032819
Llmaft-hoScAT
9

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.94)
MAR 91949
y dear Mr. Erady:
I refer to your letter of March 2, 1949 requesting
894.543/3-249
information concerning the renewal of trade-marks in
Japan owned by American nationals.
Your inquiry has been referred to the Military Govern-
ment in Japan. I will write you again as soon as we
receive a reply.
Sincerely yours,
RCD
Roger C. Dixon
Acting Assistant Chief
International Resources Division
r. Joseph B. Brady,
CS/A
National Foreign Trade Council, Inc.,
ll1 Broadway,
New York 6, New York.
89
f
MAR R11949
543
mL
ITP:IR:JMLightman:prg
3-21-49

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
APR 81949
In reply refer to
IR
894.543/3-249
My dear Mr. Brady:
Further reference is made to your letter of
March 2, 1949 requesting information concerning the
renewal of trade-marks in Japan owned by American
nationals.
The Department has been informed by the Depart-
ment of the Army that it is not now possible to renew
such trade-merks but that a policy will be promulgated
in the near future to permit such renewal.
Sincerely yours,
Res
Roger C. Dixon
Acting Assistant Chief
International Resources Division
AN
CS/
Mr. Joseph B. Brady,
National Foreign Trade Council, Inc.,
A
1l1 Broadway,
894.543
New York 6, New York.
CRY
APR 8 1949 P.M
ITP:IR:SGolablatt:s1
L/E
NA
4-4-4989
a
24

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
31637
APR 51949
In reply refer to
894.543/3-249
My dear Mr. Foye:
I refer to your letter of March 2, 1949 concerning
the protection of American trade-marks, patents and
copyrights in Japan.
894.543/3-249
The Department appreciates very much receiving the
views of your organization on these matters. Enclosed
for your information is a copy of a press release regard-
ing Japanese patent policy distributed on March 30, 1949
by the Far Eastern Commission. As you will note, the
policy st:tement covers most of the recommendations made
by your organization.
The Far Eastern Commission is now considering policies
regarding the restoration and protection of trade-marks
and conyrights in Japan. You may be assured that your
recommendations regaruing these matters will be given
full consideration.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Ron
0.014
Roger C. Dixon
Acting Assistant Chief
International Resources Division
894.543
Enclosure:
FEC Press Release
Mr. Arthur B. Foye, President,
Far East-America Council of
Commerce and Industry, Inc.,
CS/H
w
30 Rockefeller Piaza,
2
APR 4 1949 P.M
New York 20, New York.
APR
PM.
f
ら
EP
ITP:IR:SGoldblatt:sl
ITP
OFD
NA

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
1R
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER
TO FILE NUMBER
OFFICE OF ALIEN PROPERTY
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
Y
March 7, 1949
MAR 10 1949
IN TERNATIONA, RESOU
597
MAR 10 1949
The Honorable Willard
E- Mr. Thorp
Assistant Secretary of State
Assistant Secretary
DEPARTMERT OF STATE
Department of state
for Economic Affairs
Vas ington, D. C.
MAR9 1949
894.543/12-12949
Dear r. Thorp:
Department of State
He have carefully consicoreu tn
"rolicy on
the Freatent of Jupanese Tradery rks" forwarded with your/letter of
December 29, 194o, particulurly pares 6 and 18-20, as sugrested in
the second paragraph of your letter.
Genorally, there seems to be no fundamental conflict
betv en the proposed policy and the trademark policy o: this Office.
You will pote that so far as Parapraph (d) is concerned the purpose
has already been aecomplished by publicatien of the General License
in Soction bo7.41 of the hemula ions of the Office of Alien Froperty
(13 Fed. Rer. 9512, December 31, 1948).
There are some qualific tions in conrection with procedure
which I feel it advisuble to bring to your attention:
(1) This rtice has no power under the prosent laws and
Executive Orders to prohibit the use of trademe riks. We can oppose
and may poroibly be uble to prevent, the type of use intended to
FILED
1
be prohibited oy availine ourselves of uxistin- le islation to
8
894.543
CS/
this Office to cooperate in nforeing the provisions of the arreement
only to the extent possible, and by the methods available under our
present powers.
H
(2) This frice can make no comitment at this time as to
the issuance of royalty-free licenses on trademarks. In addition to
doubts as to the propriety of issuing such licenses, there is serious
3
question as to cur authority to do so. Furthormore, we wish to call to
your ttention that tradener licenses issued by this Oirice have been
49
norWekelusive and revocable. it is our understanding that the contemplated
policy moule not require a chunge in this ruspect. It is our understanding
the
30

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
The Honorable Willard L. Thorp
- 2 -
March 7, 1949
that proposed licenses will be considered on a case-by-case basis,
and that the Army, upon request, will provide this Office with
written representations that the issuance of licenses is desirable
in particular cases.
(3) The provisions of Faragraph 9(a) (Page 6) of the
proposed agreement are interpreted to permit some flexibility in
dealing with trademarks of nited States corporations the majority
stock of which, formerly Japanese owned, is vested. While we do not
know of any instance where a tradenark us ed on goods manufactured in
Japan was also used on goods manufactured in the United States, we do
have instances where goods produced in Japan were marked for sale in
this country with tradenm rks reristered to United States corporations,
the ma jority of wose stock was owmed by Japanese nationals. It may
be necessary to pormit the continued use of these trademarks on imports
from Japan by the merican cor orations, or tc sell the vested Japanese
interest in the corporation without interfering with the corporate owner-
ship of the trademarks.
Apart from the qualifications above suzgested, the proposed
Policy on the Treatment of Japenese Trademarks is in line with the trade-
mark policy of this Office, and with experimental procedure already
adopted. Accordinly, the Office of Alien roperty joins in agreement
upon the subject with the Department of State and the Army.
Very truly yours,
Rordiager
David L. Vazelon
Assistant Attorney General
Director, office of Alien rroperty

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
TO:
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE:March 23, 1949
FROM : IR - R. C. Dixon
SUBJECT:
The attached letter to the rmy is to inform that Department
that the uffice of Alien !'roperty has now approved the State-Army
paper on the treatment of Japanese Trademarks (T3 A) and that
22
accordingly it is now to be considered as the policy of this
811.543
Government. The letter requests the Army to foreard the conclusions
to SCAP as an expression of US policy on the subject, in accordance
Files
Central
RM/R 894.543/3-2349
This Document Must Be Returned to
with Recommendation 10 c. (p. 7) of the paper.
The paper was approved as a State-Army policy in December 1948
by an exchange of letters (TAB B). A similar exchange of letters
with the UA? has established that agency's concurrence (TB C). As
explained in the letter to the irmy, the qualifications contained in
the OAP's reply are not of major significance.
CSBM
Enclosure:
Letter to Army.
894.543
CONFIDENTIAL
ReD
ITP:IR: RCDixon: prg
3-23-49
DC/B
13.2349
Rev
Cat.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.88)
NA.Je
STANDARD FORM NO. 
CONFIDENTIAL
DATE: March 29, 1949
FROM :
NA - r. Bishop
SUBJECT:
Japanese Trade-Marks.
Recommend you sign the attached letter to the Department of the Army,
which is explained in kir. Dixon's memorandum attached. As pointed out
by him, the basic paper was approved by the Department in December 1948,
and the object of this paper is to transmit it to Army after concurrence
of the Office of Alien Property.
Mr Bishpp
Last page prepand for
894
you siguatine. I hare confermed
thet thee poley oo alvadly
54
squed ty, to SCAP Cangt 
C3
State.
3
The proper sarpe y the tee papa
2
las be lomsidred paporatily .
f
1
uls
NA:NHemmendinger:lk
3/29/49
CONFIDENTIAL
File

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
ITED TATES POLITICAL ADVICERIVISION OF
FOR SAPAN
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
APR 141948
DEPARTMENI OF STATE
No. 196
Tokyo,March"25,
UNCLASSIFICD
FE
Reod.
Mar. 31
AOTION
ITP ene
INFO
DOR
Subject: Infringement of Trademarks and Trade-name
FR
of Elizabeth rden.
FE enc
L one
COM ene
The etiny Political Adviser has the honor to
enclose five copies of a directive (3CArIN 5363-A)
dated March 6, 194? concerning application of
directives to tradenarks. The Japanese Government
is directed to take all steps necessary to prevent
t.e continuance of the trademark and trade-name in-
fringement of Elizabeth Arden by the firm Arden Beauty
alon, Tokyo, Japan. It is further directed to submit
to General Headcuarters, Supreme Commender for the
Allied Powers, within thirty days from the date of the
enclosed directive, a full and complete report of action
taken in compliance therewith.
Enclosure:
General lieadquarters,
SCAP, DirectiVe (SCAPIN
5363-A) dated March 6,
1948 (five copies).
Original and ozalid to the bepartment.
854
JDEdwards:cs
UNCLASSIFILD

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRENE COIMANER FOR THE ALLIED POVERS
4P0 500
AG O72 (6 MEr 48 )CFC/PP
6 Maroh 1948
SCAPIN 5363-.
MEMORALDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Application of Directives to Trademarks
1. Reference is made to the following:
a. Memorandum for the Japanese Government, file
AG 091.112 (13 Sup 45)MG, SCAPIN 26, 13 Scptember 1945, sub-
ject, "Protection of Allied and Axis Proporty"
b. Memorandum for the Jananese Government, file
G 130 (22 Sep 45)ESS, SCAPIN 45, 22 September 1945, subject,
"Control of Financial Transactions."
c. Merorandum for the Japanese Governmont, file
AG O72 (10 June 47)CPC/PP, SC..PIN 1726, 10 June 1947, subject,
"application of irectives to Patents, Utility Models, Trade-
marks, esigns, and Copyri hts"
2. Attention is directed to the fact that proper pro-
tection has not been ufforded by the Japanese Government to
trademarks registcred on 7 cember l94l in names of United
Nations nationals as required by ruferences la and lc ubove;
infringenent of trademarks und trade-name of Elizabeth Arden,
681 Fifth Avenue, New York City, U.S.A., by the firm listed
below has been reported to General Headquarters, Supreme Com-
mander for the Alliud Powers:
Arden Bouuty Salon, Kiya Building, Tokyo
3. The Japanese Government is directed to take all stops
necessury to prevent the continuance of the trademark and trade-
name infringemont described in paragraph 2 above. The Japa-
nese Governmont is further directed to submit to General Head-
quarters, Supremo Commander for the Allied Powers a full and
complote roport of action tuken in compliance with those instruc-
tions; report will bc submittod within thirty days from dato of
this monorandum.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMAN ER:
agTehe
C&lonel, ..GD,
Adjutant Guneral.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
EB131948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No。 53
Tokyo, January 24, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
Road.
Feb. 3
AOTION
ITP
INTO
Subject: Japanese Trademark "Permutit"
FR
DOR
L
FE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
GIA
Washington.
COM
Sir:
01010
I have the honor to refer to the Department's un-
numbered alrmail instruction of October 29, 1947 con-
cerning a reported infringement by a Japanese company
of the trademark "Permutit" of the Permutit Company of
New York.
This instruction was referred to the Civil Property
Custodian, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, who has made the following report:
"1. The Japanese Covernment reports as
follows:
a. The trademarks were cancelled
16 September 1942 1n accordance with the
Wartime Law of Industrial Property.
b. None of these tradenarks are
used by a Japanese firm.
c. The Permutit Co., Ltd., had
been ordered to submit a report on its
use of the firm name.
2. Permutit Co., Ltd., has reported that it
decided to changc its name to the Soft Water
Industrial Co., Ltdo, at a meeting scheduled to be
held in December 1947
3. The policy for the treatment of United
Nations-owmed Japanese trademarks has not been
formulated. Upon formulation and approval of
such a policy, ample publicity and time will be
given
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 53
Jamary 24, 1948.
-2-
UNCLASSIFIED
given in order that all persons interested may
take such steps as may be necessary to protect
the rights which may be provided for therein."
Respectfullyyours,
N。 J。3ebald
Acting Folitical Adviser
Original and ozalid to the Department.
854
RBFinn:cs
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.84)
JOA
SCAP onders Jap.
gort. to take corrective
measures a gainsis the farther
infrengemnt of the
Eligatith Aidon tradinarl
by the Anden Boanty
Salon of Tokyo,

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
ADORESS OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHSNGTON 23, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAFi
WASHINGTON
MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER, FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
Subject: Trade Marks and Marking of Merchandise in Japan
It is requested that you instruct the appropriate members of the
United States Delegation to the Far Eastern Commission to approve para-
graphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 9 of C1-332/2, "Trade Marks and Marking of
Merchandise in Japan", now before Committee 1 of the FEC. You are
further requested to instruct the U.S. Delegation to take the position
and attempt to persuade other FEC delegations to take the position that
paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 should be deleted on the following grounds:
(a) Paragraph 6 is not necessary since no special provision
is needed to assure appropriate action by the Supreme Commander if
applications filed in accordance with paragraph 5 are not promptly and
satisfactorily treated by the Japanese Bureau of Patents.
(b) Paragraphs 7 and 8, which deal with marking of merchan-
dise in Japan, are not appropriate to a paper intended primarily to
establish policy for the restoration and revalidation of foreign-owmed
trade-mark rights in Japan.
In proposing the deletion of paragraphs 7 and 8, the U.S. Dele-
gation should not indicate U.S. opposition to separate consideration
of the substanoe of these paragraphs, if the FEC decides that a separate
policy on fair trade practices in Japan is desirable. While the U.S.
Delegation/should not sponsor suoh separate policy treatment of this
matter, it is authorized to approve such a policy in principle, subject
to subsequent clearance by this Department of its precise terms.
W. Walton Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
RESTRICTED
4125

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.93)
STANDARD PORIA NO. 64
Files
DIVISION OF
Document Must Be Returned to
F
MAR 31 1949
TO
NA - Mr. Max W. Bishop
DATB: March 30, 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
894.543/3
FROM :
IR - Mr. Roger C. Dixon
SUBJECT:
FEC C1-332, "Trade-marks and Marking of Merchandise in
Japan."
As explained in the covering memorandum from you
to Mr. Voorhees, the attached draft cable to SCAP request
SCAP's views on an amendment to FEC C1-332. It is
memorandum to the Department of the Army.
3
Withdiaun by agrisetment
Dim. File
Rogr
CSBM
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1
wat
BM
april 11

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
Mareh 30, 194
.Mr. Tracy S. Voorhees, Assistant
Secretary of the Army
Mr. Max W. Bishop, Department of State (NA)
FEC Cl-332, "Trade-marks and Marking of Merchandise in
Japan."
The attached draft cable is designed to elicit scap's
views concerning an amendment of the FEC paper on trade-
marks (attached). As you wil) note from the cable, the
amendment was passed in Committee No. 1 with seven voting
for the amendment, one opposed, and three abstaining.
Before the amendment was adopted, paragraph 7 of the
trade-mark paper read as follows:
"Steps should be taken to assure that
merchandise manufactured in Japan should not
be murked so as to suggest that it is made
elsewhere than in Japan. Goods of Japanese
manufacture exported from Japan should pre-
ferably be clearly marked 'Made in Japan'."
The State-Army "Paper on the Treatment of Japanese
Trade-marks" did not contain any provisions similar to
those found in the last sentence of the above paragraph
or in the amended paragraph No. 7. Therefore, it is
the feeling of the Department that SCAP's views on this
amendment would be desirable before developing a United
States position in the Far Eastern Commission.
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
31584
DRAFT CABLE TO.SCAP
Fol amendment C1-332, "Trade-marks and Marking of
Merchandise in Japan", passed in Committee No. 1 with
seven for, three abstentions (including US) and one
opposed (Netherlands):
"Steps should be taken to assure that merchandise
manufactured in Japan should not be marked or advertised
so as to suggest that it is made elsewhere than in Japan.
Steps should also be taken to assure that wherever it is
practicable to do so goods which are produced in Japan
and exported are clearly marked to show their Japanese
origin."
Above para substituted for para 7 FEC C1-332. Ur
views re this amendment would be appreciated.
RD
Au3
ITPIR:JAGreenwald:s1
OFD
FE
3-28-49

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
APR 5194
In reply refer to
IR
CONFIDENTIAL
My dear General Eberle:
On December 29, 1948, this Department requested
894.543/4-549
the Office of Alien Property to review that part of
the State-Army policy paper on the Treatment of
Japanese Trade-marks dealing with Japanese owned
trade-marks in foreign countries to determine whether
it was consistent with the policy of that Office.
On March 7, 1949, the Office of Alien Property
replied in part as follows: "Generally, there seems
to be no fundamental conflict between the proposed
policy and the trade-mark policy of this Office ..."
"There are some qualifications in connection with
procedure which I feel it advisable to bring to your
attention:
"(1) This Office has no power under the present
laws and xecutive Orders to prohibit the use of trade-
marks. We can oppose, and may possibly be able to
prevent, the type of use intended to be prohibited by
availing ourselves of existing legislation to protect
our interest in vested trademarks. It is our under-
standing, however, that use of the term 'prohibit' is
desirable for tactical reasons, and that the Department
CS/
of State and the Army will expect this Office to cooperate
in enforcing the provisions of the agreement only to the
extent possible, and by the methods available under our
A
present powers.
"(2) This
Ss
894.543/4-549
Brigadier General George L. Eberle,
Chief, Civil Affairs Division,
Department of the Army.
CONFIDENTIAL
DECLASSIFIED
ByTGIABS 0. 9/26/78

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
GONFIDENTIAL
- 2-
"(2) This Office can make no commitment at this
time as to the 1ssuanoe of royalty-free licenses on
trademarks. In addition to doubts as to the propriety
of issuing such licenses, there is serious question as
to our authority to do so. Furthermore, we wish to eall
to your attention that trademark licenses issued by this
Office have been non-exolusive and revocable. It is our
understanding that the contemplated policy would not
require a change in this respect. It is our understanding
that proposed licenses will be considered on a case-by-
case basis, and that the Army, upon request, will provido
this Office with written representations that the issuance
of licenses is desirable in particular cases.
"(3) The provisions of Paragraph 9(a) (Page 6) of
the proposed agreement are interpreted to permit some
flexibility in dealing with trademarks of United States
corporations the majority stock of which, formerly
Japanese owned, is vested. While we do not know of any
instance where a trademark used on goods mamufactured
in Japan was also used on goods manufactured in the
United States, we do have instances where goods produced
in Japan were marked for sale in this country with trado-
marks reistered to United States corporations, the
majority of whose stock was owned by Japanese nationals.
It may be necessary to permit the continued use of these
trademarks on imports from Japan by the American corpor-
ations, or to sell the vested Japanese interest in the
corporation without interfering with the corporate
ownership of the trademarks.
"Apart from the qualifications above suggested, the
proposed Policy on the Treatment of Japanese Trademarks
is in line with the trademark policy of this Office, and
with experimental procedure already adopted. Accordingly,
the Office of Alien Property joins in agreement upon the
subject with the Department of State and the Army."
Qualifications (1) and (3) are directed to conclusion
9a of the paper, which states that "formerly Japanese
owned trade-marks now under the control of vesting author-
ities should be retained by them and their use prohibited
for identification of products of local manufacture ..."
This Department does not consider qualification (1) to be
of any great practical significance, since it is not
likely that a manufacturer in the US would risk adopting
the
OONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
the use of sueh a trade-mark without the pess
the Ofrice of Alion Property. Qualifieatien
situations brought about by the existense of
case is in our view already covered by the exeeptlen
procedural matter not affecting the poliey iteelf.
It is apparent therefore that, in accordanee with
recommendation l0a of the paper, the conelusions have
been approved by Interested agenoies as the poliey ef
this Government. Accordingly, this Bepartment will
1mplement recommendation l0p, and requests that, in
accordance with recommendatlon l0g, the Department of
the Army transmit the conelusions to SCAp as an expres-
sion of us polioy on this matter.
Sincerely yours,
Max W. Bishop
Chier
Divislon of Northeast Asian Affmirs
APR 5 1949 P.M.
ITP:IR:RCDixon: bw
ITP
OFD
L/E
NA
FE
FE:NA:NHemmendinger:1k
see written concurrences on
3/16/4/1/49
other blue
LUs

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.95)
- 3 -
the use of such a trade-mark without the permission of
the Office of Alien Property. Qualification (3) deseribe
situations brought about by the existence of non-enemy
minority stockholders in vested concerns. This type of
case is in our view already covered by the exception
stated in conclusion 9a. Qualification (2) 1s = purely
procedural matter not affecting the polioy itself.
It is apparent therefore that, in accordance with
recommendation l0a of the paper, the conclusions have
been approved by Interested agencies as the poliey of
this Government. Accordingly, this Department will
implement reconmendation l0b, and requests that, in
accordance with recommendatTon 1Oc, the Department of
the Army transmit the conclusions to SCAP as an expres-
sion of US policy on this matter.
Sincerely yours,
W. Walton Butterworth
Director. for Far Eastern Affairs
S0m
R CD
ITP:IR:RCDixon:bw
ITP
OFD
L/E
NA
3/16/49

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
ro
: NA - Lr. Bishop
Central
RM/R
This De
FROM :
NA - Mr. Hemmendingerlt
SUBJECT:
Trade iarks - C1 - 33z/2.
The above paper raises two cuestions.
The first cuestion is the basic cuestion whether paragreph 4 et seo. of the
peper, designed to prevent abuse with: respect to confusing trade marks and the
false marking of the origin of goods etc., is appropriate in the light of Nsc 13/2.
These provisions relate to commercial abuses which existed before the war and have
little connection with the war or the Terms of Surrender, and it therefore could
be said they are inappropriate for decision by the rEC. This does not apply to 
the first three paragraphs, dealing with the restoration of trade mark rights ownd
in Japan at the conmencement of the war.
There are cogent reasons for going along with the paper in its present scope
The paper is not a U.S. proposal but is based originally upon the U.K. paper, FEC
284, wnich originally concerned trade marks and copyrights as well as patents. Tire
is a very great interest in the matter of Japanese unfair trade practices on the 
part of most of the EC countries. The U.S. is thoroughly in agreement with the 
principles involved and has given them to SCAP in the trade marks paper just
finally approved by this Government. NSC 13/2 contemplates the disposition befor
a peace treaty of as many property questions as possible. While decision of this
matter in the Fo will not remove it from peace treaty consideration, because the 
real issue is Japan's practice in the future and not under the regime of control,6
an agreement on these cuestions at this time in the FaC may eliminate any necessity
to co into them extensively in connection with a peace treaty. It is of advantage
to this Government to give to the FEC countries as strong assurances as possible
with respect to the eli inetion of these unfair trade practices in order to gain
C
CS/CV
their approval of the expansion of Japanese trade, e.g., most favored nation
treatment.
The paper as presently drafted is consistent  ith the approved U.S. policy
(except as indicated below) and no specific instructions to our representatives
E
are recuired if the scope is approved. I raise the guestion at this time so that
there may be no doubt of U.S. approval when the paper reaches the Steering Committee.
The second question is the precise scope of paragraph 7 which provided, as
reported by the sub-Conittee:
"Steps should be taken to assure that merchandise manufactured in
Japan should not be marked so as to suggest that it is made elsewhere
894.543/4.1149
than in Japan. Goods of Japanese manufacture exported fron Japan should
preferably be clearly marked Made In Japan".
The following
4
Rev
017
Cat

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
The following aendment was approved in Committee #1, the U.S. abstaining:
"Steps should be talken to assure that merchandise manufactured in
Japan should not be m rked or advertised so as to suggest that it is made
elsewhere than in Japan. Steps should also be taken to assure that
wherever it is practicable to do so goods which are produced in Japan and
exported are clearly marked to show their Japanese origin."
The first drart is considered to be sutisfactory because the word "preferably"
renoves the necessity ror SC to take any special action. The revised sentence
is considered objectionable because it i poses a burden upon SCAP and the Japanese
Governaent which, the members of Joulittee 1 have conceded, is not borne by
other govern ents. It is up to the i porting country, as a ceneral rule, to
see that goods wi.ich ure admitted are marked with the country of origin. On the
other hand it is understood to be sC's present practice to have all export
soods marked Tade In Occupied Japan", and since c policy applies only for the
period of occupation, theve may be no objection by CAF to this provision.
It is recortenaed that the U.s. continue to oppose the amendment on the
grounds already stated, and if the paper is forwarded to the Steering Committee
witi. this a endment included, abstain on that stated ground in committee #1.
Sca's views should then be recuested on this provision and any other provisions
that depart from policies alreacy agreed.
ut
FE:a:RHemmenciner: lk
工R
4/11/49
CC  Ba

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
STADARD PORM NO. 64
31936
TO
: EP - Mr. Smith
DATE: April 20, 1949
118s
Central
00/
FROM : L/P - Conrad E. Snow
sUBJECT: Your memorandum regarding "Marking provision in trade-marks paper".
You ask which is the more "rigid" from the point of view of
its implementation by SCAP and the Japanese Government, the sub-
committee draft Cl-332, or the amended version approved in Committee 1.
The amended version appears to be the more drastic, if that is what
is meant by "rigid".
FW
Both versions deal with the two faces of the same subject:
(1) must goods mamufactured in Japan exported from Japan be
894.543/4-1449
marked "Made in Japan"? (2) May such goods be marked so as to sug-
gest that they were made elsewhere? As to (1) the subcommittee
draft provides that the goods "should preferably" be so marked;
the amended version provides that "steps should be taken to assure
that wherever it is practicable" goods should be so marked. It is
obvious that the amended version requires action, while the original
draft is merely the expression of a preference. As to (2), both
versions require the taking of steps to assure that merchandise
should not be so marked. But the amended version also requires that
steps be taken to assure that such merchandise should not be adver-
tised so as to suggest that it is made elsewhere than in Japan. This
requirement is not only more drastic than the original draft, but
it is so difficult to enforce as to be practically nugatory. The
advertisement of Japanese exports would not normally be done by the
Japanese exporter, but by the foreign importer, who desires to mis-
represent the origin of the goods. The Japanese exporter can
conceal nothing by such an advertisement, but the importer does not
have to reveal where he got the goods, and so can advertise them
as he pleases. Neither SCAP nor the Japanese Government have any
control over him.
Cs
/M
DIVISION
L;L/P:CESnow:1ml
DEPARTMENT

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD PORM NO. 54
TO
: Mr. Snow - L/P
DATE:
4/14/49
APR 1 8 1949
sUBJECT: Marking provision in trade-marks paper.
Fal
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Cl-332, a sub-committee draft on the suhject of trade-marks, contains
the folloving paragraph on the subject of marking of merchandise:
"Steps should be taken to assure that merchendise manufactured
in Japan should not be marked so as to sugest that it is made else-
where than in Japan. Goo's of Japanese anufacture exported from
Japan slould preferably be clearly mrked UHade in Japan!".
The follovin amended version was approved in Committee 1, the U.S. member
abstaining:
"Steps should he taken to assure that merchandise manufactured in
Japan should not be marked or advertised so as to suggest that it is
made elsewhere than in Japan. Steps should al so be taken to assure
that wherever it is practicable to do so
oods which are produced in
Japan and expected are clearly marked to show their Japanese origin.
The US member has no instructions with recard to a mandatory marking
provision in principle. Lefore requesting such instructions, we should like
to have your views as to whether or not the amended version shown above is a
more rigid provision than the original version from the point of view of its
implementation by SCAP and the Japanese Government.
X
1
894.5
SGK
14-144/7
OFD:EP:SGKallis:ocm
4/14/49

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.92)
Apr. 25, 1849
MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER, FAR BASTERE COSMESSION
Subjeots Trde Marks and Marking of Merohandise in Japn
894.543/4-2249
It is requested that you instruet the apprepriate members of the
United States Delegation to the Far Basterm Commission to appreve para-
graphs 1, 2, S, 4, 5 and 9 of C1-ssz/2, "Trade Marks and Marking of
Merehandise in Japan", now before Committee 1 of the FEc. You are
further requested to imstruet the U.s. Delegation to take the pesities
and attempt to persuade other FEc delegations to take the pesitiom that
paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 should be deleted on the following growmdss
J
(a) Paragraph 6 is not nesessary sinse no special provisiom
is needed to assure appropriate action by the Supreme demmamder if
applications filed in accordanee with paragraph 6 are mot premptly and
satisfaotorily treated by the Japanese Bureau of Patents.
(b) Paragraphs 7 and 8, which deal with marking of merehan-
dise in Japan, are not appropriate to a paper intended primarily to
establish polioy for the restoration and revalidation of foreign-ommed
trade-mark rights in Japan.
In proposing the deletion of paragraphs 7 and 8, the U.s. Dele-
gation should not indieate U.s. oppositiom to separate consideratiom
of the substanee of these paragraphs, if the Fæc desides that a separate
polioy on fair trade practices in Japan is desirable. While the U.s.
Dolegation should not sponsor sueh separate poliey treatment of this
matter, it is muthorised to approve such a poliey in prineiple, subjest
to subsequent olearanee by this Department of its preeise terms.
Bish op uitiakar for
m
Direetor for Far Eastern Affairs
W. 15urturnth
AD
Num
pRL
ReD
lear
IR
NA
RRYS SGK
OFD:EP:SGKallis:mck
RESTRICTED
4/22/49

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.95)
Oleace
Action Assigned to 
Action Taken 9:v9u
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
FE
I UL//SPEGIAL STAFF, UNITED STATES ARMY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
4 May 1949
Actic
Flcebol
Hile
DIVISION OF
Dir sut ion to D/:
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Mr. Max W. Bishop, Director
Refeared to
Division of Northeast Asian Affairs
Y6 1949
Department of State
DEPARTMENT OF STITE.
Dear Mr. Bishop:
Reference is made to memorandum from State Department dated
894.543/5-449
11 October 1948, concerning the similarity of trade names of two (2)
firms in the com products industry in Japan; one of which is an
American subsidiary.
The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers has now completed
his investigation of this matter which discloses the following:
"a. The plant, including the main office, of Nippon Kokusan
Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha was located in North Korea.
"b. The main office of Nippon Kokusan Koko Kabushiki Kaisha is
located in Tokyo, Japan. The plant is not yet in operation. Its main
prolucts will be corn starch, cattle feed, and germs extracted from
corn. Sorghum and corn are used in obtaining these products.
"c. Neither company has registered its trade name in accordance
with Commercial Code of Japan, Chapter IV, Article 19. Upon registration,
the only protection granted is in the same "shi," "cho," "son." "Shi"
is a city; "cho" is sinilar to a township; and "son" to a village. In
Tokyo, Kyoto, Osaka, Yokohama, Kobe and Nagoya, "ku" (ward) is substi-
tutel for "shi." The protection thus extended is very limited in its
scope.
JUN9
FILED
"d. Article 21 of the Commercial Code provides:
894.
No person shall, for a dishonest purpose, use any trade
69
name which is liable to induce the erroneous assumption that it
represents the business of another person.
CS
'In cases where a person has used a trade name in contra-
vention of the provisions of the preceding paragraph, a person whose
H
interest is liable to be thereby harmed may demand cessation of its use;
this shall not, however, affect any claim for damages.'
Whics
INTERNATIONAL RESANNIES DIVISION
MAY 17 1949
MAY 9 1949
160784
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
"e. The main officers of Nippon Kokusan Kako Kabushiki Kaisha
are: Mr. Morita, Mr. Shimokawa, Mr. J. Okura, and Mr. Y. Oogane, one of
whom was connected with the Mitsubishi Trading Company.
"In a conference with a representative of the Ministry of Finance,
Japanese Governnent, and Mr. Morita and Mr. Shimokawa of Nippon Kokusan
Kako Kabushiki Kaisha, the names of Japan Grain Chemical Processing
Company (Nihon Kokurui Kako Kabushiki Kaisha) and Kyowa Syokuhin Kako
Kabushiki Kaisha (Co-operative Food-stuff Processing Company) were sug-
gested as alternatives by the Japanes: firm. The first name suggested
is still quite similar, both in Japanese Kana and Romaji, and the second
nane apcears to be quite acceptable in all ways.
"This complaint has posed quite a problem due to the fact that the
companies, if Japan Corn Prolucts Refining Company were in a position
to re-establish itself, would be in a competing business and dishonest
purposes are difficult to prove. The Japanese firm has been eager to
coopera e but, of course, is desirous of retaining a name which will des-
cribe its product. In this connection, Article 8 of the Paris Convention
of 1883, which provides that "A trade name shall be protected in all the
countries of the Union without the obligation of filing or registration,
whether or not it forms part of a trade-mark," was directed to the
attention of the Japanese firm as protecting the name of "Corn Products"
in Japan, regardless of the status or location of its Japanese subsidiary,
Nippon Kokusan Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha.
"Copy of report from the Japanese Government is inclosed for your
inforuation. The Japanese fimm stated that it had on hand almost five
thousand (5,Ooo) letterheads and containers which it desired to use
because of the paper shortage in Japan. To prevent this economic loss,
it was suggested that the following words be stamped thereon until the
change of name becomes effective: Not connected with the Japan Corn
Products Refining Company.'"
It would be desirable to have an expression of opinion from the Corn
Products Refining Co. before action is taken by Nippon Kokusan Kako
Kabushiki Kaisha at its shareholders' meeting in May to effect the desired
change of name.
Sincerely yours,
1 Incl
P. S. RIGGS
Report fr Japanese
Colonel, GSC
Govt dtd 28 Feb 49
Chief, Far Eastern Affairs Group
Civil Affairs Division
2

=== Page 90 === (confidence 1.00)
28 February 1949.
TO: General Headquarters, Supreme Commandeer for the Allied Powers,
Civil PropertyCustodian
FROM: Administration Bureau, Ministry of Finance
SUBJECT: Interim Report of Action taken by the Japanese Government
in Compliance with the SCAP Instruction.
1. Reference is made to the following memorandum for the
Japanese Government from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
for the llied Powers.
File AG O95 (22 Oct 48) CPC/FP, SCAPIN 6197-A, 26 November 1948,
subject, "Application of Directives to Protection of Trade Names:
2. In compliance with your instruction, we herewith hasten
to submit this interim report of development of affairs so far
for you reference, as it is some time to come before the matter
comes to final settlement.
3. The Ministry of Finance requested the officials of Nippon
Kokusan Kako Kabushiki Kaisha to present themselves and brought
the purport of the reference memorandum to their attention.
4. Following are the points as contained in the statement
made by them on that occasion.
(1) Alteration of the trade name shall be proposed at the
ordinary shareholders' meeting slated to be convened in May this year.
(2) The new name now under consideration "Kyowa Shokuhin
Kako Kabushiki Kaisha (Coop rative Food-stuff Processing Company)."
5. The Ministry of Finance agreed on this projected plan on
condition that the following words be stamped on letterheads and
cont iners of the company until the alteration of trade name
becomes effective.
"Not Connected with Japan Corn Products Refining
Company"
6. The outcome of coming shareholders' meeting as well as any
further steps shall be reported as soon as it becomes possible.
/s/ K. NEDA for
K. Naganuma
Director of Administration Bureau
Ministry of Finance
COPY

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
May 11, 1940
Dear Colonel Riggs:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
May 4, 1949, addressed to Mr. Max W. Bishop, regaraim
the similarity of trade names of two firms in the eor
products industry in Japan. As Mr. Bishop is out of
894.543/5-449
town I have referred your letter to Mr. J. N. Lightmam
of the International Resouroes Division who is
interested in this matter.
Sincerely yours,
Miles W. Bond
Retingg Asstotant Chier
Division or Northeast Aslan Affairs
543
Col. T. S. Rigge,
CS/H
Chief, Far Eastern Affairs Group,
Civil Affairs Division.
Department of the Army,
Washington 25, D. C.
FE:NA:MPMcKenna

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.96)
MAY 11 1949
ly dear r. Adams:
Reference is made to r. Vernon's letter of December 22,
1948, indicating that the Japanese Government had been directed
to take action to prevent the continuance of any use of a trade
name similer to that of your Japanese subsidiary, Nippon
Kokusan Ko yo Kabushiki Kaisha (Japan Corn Products Refining Co.).
5.4/4
894.543/5-449
We have now been advised that the Japanese Government has
initiated the followin action with regard to this matter. At
a meeting called by the Japanese inistry of Finance with the
officers of Hippon Kolusan Kako Kabushi 1 Kaisha (Japan
Chemical Products Processing Co.), the name Kybwa Syokuhin
Kako Kabushiki Kaisha (Cooperative Food-stuff Processing Co.)
was suggested as an alternative. The Japanese firm expressed
a willingness to alter its trade name but stated that it had
on hand almost 5,000 letter-heads and containers which it
desired to use because of the paper shortage in Japan. To
prevent this economic loss it was suggested that the words
"iot connected with the Japan Corn Products Refining Co." be
stamped thereon until the chane of name becomes effective.
Action will be taken by Nippon Kokusan Kako Kabushiki Kaisha
at its shareholderst meeting this month to effect the desired
change of name.
The Department of State would appreciate an expression of
opinion from your firm as to the proposed action.
Sincerely yours,
Red
K
hoger C. Dixon
Acting ssistant Chief
Internationalesources Division
r.arren . Adans,
Corn Products Refining Company,
17 Battery Place,
Hew York, lew York.
MAY 11 1949DM
ITP:IR:JMTightman:prg
5-10-49

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.92)
RCD
JA6
CORN PRODUCTS REFINING COMPANY
ITP
17 BATTERY PLACE
Action Assigned to
NEW YoRK 4, N.Y.
Action Taken
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
Date of Act :7
100-17e
Fetico Offive srab.
1..ay 17, 1949
ue cx Ofr.csr
fre
Lr. Roger C. Dixon, Actin Assistant Chief
rection to
International Resources Division
Department of St&te
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear I r. Dixon:
894.543/5-1749
This will acknowledge receipt of and thank
you for your letter of .ay ll with reference to the use
by Nippon Kokusan Kako K.K. of a name confusingly similar
to that of our Japunese subsiuiary, Nippon Kokusan Kogyo
K.K.
The sug ested settlement of the matter whereby
Nip.on Kokusan Kako,.K. will change its name to Kyowa
Syokuhin Kako .K., but may use its present letterheads
wi th the worus "Hot connected with the Japan Corn Products
Refinin Co." added is agreeable to us, except that we
thinx that a time limit of perhaps two months should be
fixed for the continueu use of the confusing name, and
the added worus should be "Not connected with Nippon
Kokusan Kogyo K.K." (these words to be, of course, clearly
legible and in close proximity to the confusin name).
I trust that the fore oing will meet with favor-
able consideration by the State Department.
Very truly yours,
Nauer S. Aoams, Bed
JUN9 1949
7 1945
FILED
Warren S. Adams, 2nd
Attorney
164787
ODH
15-174
CS/H
ITERNATIONAL RESOUDSES DIVISION
MAY 19 1940
BEPARTMENT OF STATE
9

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.94)
De/R
In reply mefer to
NA 894.545/5-649
My dear Colonel Porter:
Reference is made to Colonel Riggs' lotter of May , 1s
regarding the similarity of trade names of two fimms in the emm
products industry in Japan; one of which is a subsidiery of 
Amerioan fimm, Corn Produots Rofining Company.
2hag17-4g
894.543/5-1749
In accordance with the suggeation sonteined in the last
X
paragraph of your letter, the Department of State has aaked
the Corn Products Rofining Company for an expression of opimion
regarding tho sction to be taken by Nippon Kokusmn Kako Habuskiki
Knisha, the Japanese ownod coupany, to effect the desired ehange
of name.
The suggested settloment whereby the Japanese company will
change its name to Kyowe Syokuhin Kako, K.K. and tamporarily
use its present letterheads with the words, "not connected with
the Japan Corn Products Refining Co.", stamped thereon, im
agresable to Corn Products Rofining Company. They bave suggested,
however, thet a time limit of parhaps two months be fixed for
the continued use of the old name with the added words, "not
conneeted with Nippon Kokusan Kogyo K.K.", stamped on the letter-
heads.
Sincerely yours,
OGH
MnuB
Max W. Bishop
894.543/5-1749
Chief
Division of Northeaetasian Affairs
CS/H
Colonel R. W. Porter, Jr.
Chief, Far Easterm Affaire Group,
Civil Affairs Division,
Department of the Army.
JUN 2 1949
ITP:IR:Lightman:prg
5/24-6/1/49
see attached blue.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.95)
My dear Colonel iggs:
Reference is made to your letter of May 4 and my
acknowledgment thereto of May 1l regarding the similarity
of trade names of two firms in the corn products industry
in Japan; one of viich is a subsidiary of an American
Irm, Corn Products Refining Co.
In accordance with the suggestion contained in the last
paragra h of your letter, the Department of State has re-
quested the Corn Products Refining Co. for an expression of
opinion regarding the action to be taken by Nippon Kokusan
Kako Kabushiki Kaisha, the Japanese owned company, to effect
the desireu chane of name.
The suggested settlement whereby the Japanese Co.
will change its name to Kyowa yokuhin Kako, K.K. and tem-
porarily use its present letterheads with the words not
y
connected with the Japan Corn Products Refining Co."
stamped thereon, is agreeable to Corn Products Refining
Co. They have su gested, lowever, that a time limit of
1.8
perhaps two months be fixed for the continued use of the
old name with the added words "not connected with Nippon
Kokusan Kogyo K.." stamped on the letterheads.
Sincerely yours,
axishop,
Divisionmof Northeast Asian Affairs
aluif
na 2
Colonel T. . i gs, Chief,
Far Lastern Affairs Groun, CAD,
Department of Army.
peD
ITP.IR:Ji Lightman:prg
5-24-49

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.94)
RM|R
CONFIDENTIAL
Col. George P. Lynoh, CAD,
May 27, 1949
Department of the Army.
Mr. H. Lory, Division of Northeast Aslan Affairs,
Department of State.
It is requested that a cable slong the following
lines be sent to SCAP:
" Ec teering Committee cons1dering C-332/5
Trade-Marks, Trede Nemes end Merking of Merchandise
Central
RM/R
This Decurent Must Be Returned to
cor 7 Fc C-33 ) following provielon on merking not
Lucluded 1n oured AA 86923, 8 Aur sTE steps should
lso be token to nssure that wherever it 1s practicable
to do to goods which are produced in Jopan and exported
tre clesrly merked to shov their Japanose origin. UNoTE
Tis provision stromgly suprorted by majority FEC
894.543/5-2749
countrles. Ur views re this provision requested soonest."
The State Tepartment feele tht it is necessary to
 ve "C  's vievs vith respect to the adviss ility of
sup orting. the inclusi'n of the second sentence of
1ir er1  of the  cocument 1c-332/5 vhich is now
under consideretion by the Steering Comgittee.
CS/E
Confidential File
EP
894.543
Cleoed wwich
Wh Welli
BarneM
CONFIDENTIAL
Nny
5=2749
FE:NA:HWHOseley:db

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
DE WITT, VANHICKFGERMAST & CHAPMAN
COUNSANDLORS AT LAW
AUSTRIAN AFFAID-
MACDONALD DE WITT
HARRY H. VAN AKEN
EDGAR H. A. CHAPMAN
.COUDERT NAST
1949 JUN PM 12 41
GRAYBAR BUILDING
WILLIAM R.LONERGAN
FE for' reply
42O LEXINGTON AVENUE
WILLIAM E.FLANNERY
NEW YORK 17, N.Y.
し
DVISION OF
ARTMENT OF STATE
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS June 24, 1949
Reply drafled 715kg
JUN21949
Mr. Charles E. Saltzman
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Charlie:
I am writing you informally in the hope that you will
be able to give me the name of the person or governmental agency
to whom I should write formally.
As you may recall, my firm represents The Condé Nast
Publications Inc., which publishes the fashion magazine VOGUE.
We have recently been informed that a concern in Japan has com-
menced the publication of a fashion magazine, in both the
894.543/6-2449
English and Japanese languages, and is using the word "Vogue" as
its title. This is an infringement of the trade-mark of The
Condé Nast Publications Inc. and we wish to take action to pre-
vent its continuance.
We have been advised by our trade-mark counsel that
matters of this type are still under control of the Occupation
Authorities. If this is so, we would like to communicate with
the proper section or agency of Occupation Headquarters in Japan
to find out what, if anything, can be done to stop the use by
S
the Japanese concern of VOGUE as the title of a magazine.
It occurred to me that, in your present position, you
might be able, without inconvenience, to tell me to whom we
should write, either in Japan or through appropriate channels in
Washington, military or diplomatic, as the case may be. With
many thanks,
7
FILED
22
CS/CC
Sincerely,
2
649
894.543
CCN:jd
181212
5503

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.93)
J619
In reply refer to
NA
My dear Xr. Masti
Your letter or June 24, 1949, to Nr. Saltsmem wi
res, eet to alleged infringement in Japan of the trede-
merk "Vogue" hes been referred to me fer reply.
The enforoement or the trede-mark lawe in Japam weets
"itr the appropriate agenolee or the Japanese Gevernment,
subject to the supervision of the Supreme Commander fer
the Allled rowers. I rould suggest that you write the
fuli detni:s of the alleged infringoment both to Brig.
Uen. ". F. Marquat, Chief, Eeonomio and Selentifie
Seotion, General Hesdquartere, Bupreme Commander for
the Allied Powere, Aru Boo, Care of Postmaster, Ban
Franclsco, and to Col. R. W. Porter, Civil Affaire
Divislon, Department of the Army, Room ?Esß2 Pontagom
Hulldink, warhington , D. C.
If there 1s snythin further that you feel the
Deva tment of atate onn do for you in this matter,
pleare be ansured that we shnll be glad to be of
ansistsnoe.
Bincerely yours,
S
1
21
Max W. Biehop
JUI 6 1949
CR
Chier
/. Divislon of Northeast Aslan Arraire
CS/CC
r. c. voudert Nast,
Dewitt, Ven Aken, Nast A Chenman
420 Lexington Avenue,
New York 17, New York.
FE:NA:MWB1shop/pm
NHemmendinger
7/6/49

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.95)
DE WITT, VAN AKEN, NAST & CHAPMAN
COUNSELLORS AT LAW
MACDONALD DE WITT
HARRY H. VAN AKEN
C. COUDERT NAST
EDGARH.A.CHAPMAN
GRAYBAR BUILDING
WILLIAM R. LONERGAN
42O LEXINGTON AVENUE
E.FLANNERY
NEW YORK 17, N.Y.
RECEIVED
DIVISION OF
JUL 111949
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
July 7, 1949
Fule
JUL111949
DEPARTMENT OFOSTATE
Mr. Max W. Bishop
Division of Northeast Asian Affairs
Department of State
or
Trade mark
VOGUE
Washington 25, D. C.
m
Dear Mr. Bishop:
874.543/6 2449
894.543/7-749
This will acknowledge with thanks receipt of your let-
ter of July 6, 1949 in reply to my 1etter of June 24th to Mr.
Saltzman. In accordance with your recommendations, I shall pre-
pare a letter stating our case in full and will address the same
to General Marquat at SCAP and to Colonel Porter in Washington.
We and our client greatly appreciate your suggestion
that the Department of State will be glad to give us further
assistance if necessary. At the moment, I think that we will
be satisfied with making the references suggested in your letter.
Yours very sincerely,
C. louatas
CCN: jd
894.543
186837
00H
JUL 14 1949
W
PILEICS/H
K

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.91)
IM
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
SPECIAL STAFF, UNITED STATES ARMY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
AS S
14 July 1949
1943
INTERNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
DEPAT
Rogtey d 7-22
Mr. Max W. Bishop, Chief
Division of Northeast Asian Affairs
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department of State
To A damL, Com Produa
494
Dear Mr. Bishop:
IR JMN-Pa file
7.21-45
With reference to your letter dated 2 June 1949 concern-
ing the complaint of the Corn Products Refining Company, I
am pleased to transmit the following additional information.
The Japanese Government reports that at the general meet-
ing of Nippon Kokusan Kako Kabushiki Kaisha on 23 May 1949
there were present 64 of the 100 shareholders whose holdings
represented 135,700 of the 200,000 shares. It was voted at
894.543/7-1449
the meeting to change the name of the company to Nippon
Shokuhin Kako Kabushiki Kaisha.
Sincerely yours,
EW Hendrik
EDWARD W.HENDRICK
Lt. Colonel, GSC
Acting Chief, Far Eastern
Affairs Group
180703
CS/H
mlc

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.95)
 291945
In reply refer to:
IR
y dear r. Adams:
Reference is made to our previous correspondence
regardin your complaint that a Japanese company was
usin a trade nane similar to that of your Japanese
subsidiary, Hippon Kokusan Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha (Japan
Corn roducts nefining Co.)
We have now been advised that at the general meeting,
on. ay 23, 1949, of Wippon Kokusan Kako Kabushiki Kaisha,
894
the company against which the complaint was registered,
there were present 64 of the 100 shareholders, whose
holdings represented 135,700 of the 200,000 shares. At
food 
this meeting, it was vote to change the name of the
43/7-1449
Sincerely yours,
JUL 29 1949M
DK
Donal&D. Kennedy
Chief
International ResourcesDivision
Corn Products Refining Co.,
17 Battery Place,
894.543/7.
New York, New York.
uli
lleaanee:
gour
NA (Bishap)
H
7.1449
ITP: IR:JMLightman:pg
7-21-49

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
DCK
49
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE NW.
NORTHEASD ASIAN AFFATRS
19
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission provide
that one of the functions of the Commission should be to "formulate
the policies, principles and standards in conformity with which the
fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under the Terms of Surrender
may be accomplished".
894.543/7-2849
It is further provided that when such decisions are made by
the Far Eastern Commission, "The United States Government shall pre-
pare directives in accordance with the policy decision of the Com-
mission and shall transmit them to the Supreme Commander through
the appropriate United States Govermment agency."
At the one hundred sixty-second meeting of the Far Eastern
Commission held at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington,
xR
D. C., on 28 July 1949, the enclosed policy decision entitled "Trade-
Marks, Trade Names and Marking of Merchandise In Japan" was approved.
As Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I have
been instructed to forward this decision to you on behalf of the
Commission in order that an appropriate directive may be prepared
and transmitted to the Supreme Commander in accordance with the
Terms of Reference.
I am also enclosing a table indicating examples of the appli-
cation of the second sentence of Paragraph 1 which accompanied the
policy decision when it was forwarded to the Commission for actien.
FILED
22
The Commission agreed that the text of the enclosed policy
CS/A
should be released to the press after the appropriate directive has
been received by the Supreme Commander. In order that we may mak
our arrangements for release as expeditiously as possible, it would
be appreciated if you could notify me when the United States dir-
ective has reached Tokyo.
894.543/7-2849
Sincerely yours
Telem 'nuclehue
190669
Nelson T. Johnson
Enclosure:
Secretary General
Certified Copy of P. 61
The Honorable
Dean Acheson
Secretary of State
Washington. D. C.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSIÓN
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE NW.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
The attached copy of a document adopted at
the one hundred and sixty-second meeting of the
Far Eastern Commission, held at 2516 Massachusetts
Avemue, Northwest, Washington, D. C. on 28 July
1949, has been compared with the original text
and is hereby certified to be correct.
relom hucluJhnon
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Washington, D. C.
28 July 1949

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
FEC-RESTRICTED
TRADE-MARKS. TRADE NAMES AND MARKING OF MERCHANDISE IN JAPAN
The Far Eastern Cemmission decides as a matter of policy
the following:
l. Trade-mark rights in Japan which, at the date of
the outbreak of hostilities between Japan and the country
of the mational concerned, belonged to nationals of coun-
tries at war with Japan should be restored upon request
made within such reasonable period and in such manner as
may be provided by the Supreme Commander. Restoration
should be made without payment of any fees and should give
the owners protection from the date of restoration for a
period equivalent to the period of protection to which
they were still entitled at the date of the outbreak of
hostilities. When, as a result of conditions growing
out of World War II, trade-mark rights of the national
of a country at war with Japan could not be exercised be-
fore the date of outbreak of hostilities between Japan
and the country of the national concerned, such rights
shall be restored in accordance with the principles of
this paragraph for a period equivalent to the period of
protection to which those nationals were still entitled
at the date when their rights could not be exercised.
2. Applications for trade-marks which were filed in
Japan by nationals of countries at war with Japan prior
to the date of the outbreak of hostilites, but final
action on which had not been completed at the time of the
outbreak of hostilities, should, on request of such na-
tionals, be reinstated as pending applications under the
original filing date. No fees should be required for
reinstatement.
3. A national of a country at war with Japan who had
duly filed in any country the first application for a
trade-mark not earlier than six months before the effective
date of loss of the right to file trade-mark applications
in Japan, or the effective date of loss of opportunity to
exercise that right as the result of conditions growing
out of World War II, should be entitled, within twelve
(months)

=== Page 105 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
FEC-RESTRICTED
months after the date as determined by the Supreme Com-
mander, on which such natioals are again permitted to
apply for trade-marks in Japan and to obtain legal ser-
vices necessary for this purpose, to apply for corres-
ponding rights in Japan with a right of priority based
upon the previous first filing of the application.
4. The Japanese Government should adopt and enforce
appropriate regulations to prevent registration in the
future of marks which are confusingly similar to marks
or names of foreign nationals which are used by such
foreign nationals anywhere and are well-known in Japan.
5. Nationals of countries members of the United Nations
should be permitted, within a reasonable period to be estab-
lished by SCAp, to apply to the Japanese Bureau of Patents
for the cancellation of the registration of any trade-mark
registered in Japan which so resembles a trade-mark or tade
name previously used by the applicant and which is well-
known in Japan as to be likely to cause confusion or mistake
or to deceive purchasers. The Japanese Bureau of Patents
should deal expeditiously with these applications and, if
the facts presented by the applicant are found to be correct,
cancel registration of such trade-marks.
6. Steps should be taken to assure that merchandise manu-
factured in Japan should not be marked or advertised so as to
suggest that it is made elsewhere than in Japan.
7. Steps should also be taken to assure that goods ex-
ported from Japan are not so marked or otherwise described
as to convey a false impression or their quantity, quality
or content.
8. Trade-mark rights in Japan which now exist, or which
are restored, or which are newly acquired during the period
of occupation should be protected, except where the contimued
protection of such rights is in conflict with policies estab-
lished in accordance with the Terms of Reference of the Far
Eastern Commission.
9. The foregoing provisions should apply, wherever
applicable, to trade names and to commercial or corporate
names or marks.
P-61
FEC-332/12
28 July 1949

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
FEC-RESTRICTED
APPENDIX
EXAMPLES OF APPLICATION OF SECOND SENTENCE PARAGRAPH 1
The following table contains examples of the wmy in which
the second sentence of Paragraph 1 of the proposed policy would
apply. All of the hypothetical trade-marks listed below are
assumed to have been registered for a twenty yeart period. For
the purpose of the table, 30 June 1949 is taken as the effective
date of the policy, and 30 June 1950 as the expiration date for
the "reasonable period" to be provided by the Supreme Commander
for the acceptance of requests for restoration of trade-marks.
"Restoration should . . . give the omers pro-
tection from the date of restoration for a
period equivalent to the period of protection
to which they were still entitled at the date
of the outbreak of hostilities."
Date of Outbreak of Unexpired Term
Expiration Date
Hostilities Between of Trade-mark at
of Restored
Date of
Japan and Country
Date of Outbreak
Date of
Trade-Mark
Registration
of Owner
of Hostilities
Restoration
7 Dee 1931
7 Doo 1941
10 yrs
15 July 1949
14 July 1959
7 Jume 1922
7 Dec 1941
6 mos.
1 Aug 1949
31 Jan 1950
8 Sept 1926
8 Doc 1941
4 yrs., 9 mos.
15 0ct 1949
14 July 1954
20 March 1933
8 Dec 1941
11 yrs., 3 mos.,
5 Feb 1950
18 May 1961
14 days
26 Nov 1929
7 July 1937
12 yrs., 4 mos.,
15 Mar 1950
2 Aug 1962
19 days
4 0st 1940
7 Doo 1941
18 yrs., 9 mos.,
10 Sept 1950
7 July 1969
28 days

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.95)
AUG 8194S
In reply refer to
NA
RESTRICTED
My dear Mr. West:
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commis-
sion provide that one of the funotions of the Commission
should be to "formulate the policies, prinoiples, and
standards in conformity with which the fulfillment by
Japan of its obligations under the Terms of Surrender
894.543/7-2849
may be accompliahed." It is further provided that when
such decisions are made by the Far Eastern Commission,
"The United States Government shall prepare direstives
in accordance with policy decisions of the Commission
and shall transmit them to the Supreme Commander
It will be recalled that in the past the Department
of State hag forwarded draft directives based on polioy de-
cisions approved by the Far Eaetern Commission to the
Joint Chiefe of Staff through the good ofrices of the
State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee for
tranemission to General MacArthur. In view of the dis-
solution of the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating
Committee, 1t 1e requested that the enclosed draft
directive, prepared on the basis of a policy decision
regarding Trade-Marks, Trade Names and Marking of Mer-
chandise in Japan, approved at the one hundred sixty-
second meeting of the Far Eastern Commisslon on July 28,
1949, be forwarded to the Joint Chiefe of Staff for
transmiseion to General MaoArthur for his guidance in
accordance with the Terms of Reference of the Far East-
ern Commission. It is assumed that if the Joint Chiefs
of Staff have any question regarding the draft direotive
C
S
A18
they
0
4
Mr. Robert R. West,
G
Deputy to Assistant Secretary
Lj
of the Army,
ω
Department of the Army.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
-2-
they will refer the matter to the Department of state
for clarification before tranamitting a direotive om
the subjeat.
The Seoretary General of the Far Eastern Gom-
mission has also requested that the attaohed appendix
to the polioy decision be transmitted to General Mas-
Arthur for his information.
The Seoretary General of the Far Eastern Commission
has informed the Secretary of State that the Commissiom
agreed that the text of the policy decision regarding
Trade-Marks, Trade Names and Marking of Merohandise im
Japan should be released to the press. Therefore, in
accordance with normal procedure, aoknowledgement of
the receipt of the direotive by SCap 1s requested.
Sincerely yours,
6003
W. Walton Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
Enclosures:
l. Draft Direotive
2. Appendix
AUG
194
FE:NA:ALDunning:aw:clh
8/5/49
RESTRIOTEL

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
DRAFT DIAECTIVE REGARDING TRADE-MARKS, TRADE
NAMES AND MARKING OF MERCHANDISE IN JAPAN
The fellowing direotive prepared by the Departmemt ef
State to implement the polioy adopted by the Far Easterm
Commiesion on July 28, 1949, under the provisions of Para-
graph II, A, 1, of its Terms of Referenee has beem reeeived
from the Department of the Army for tranamissiom te you for
your guidance in accordance with Paragraph III, 1, of its
Terms of Reference:
The Far Eastern Commission decides as a matter of
polioy the following:
1. Trade-mrk rights in Japan which, at the
date of the outbreak of hostilities between Japan
and the country of the national concerned, belonged
to nationals of countries at war with Japan should
be restored upon request made within such reasomable
period and in such manner as may be provided by the
Supreme Commander. Restoration should be made wishout
payment of any fees and should give the owners pro-
tection from the date of restoration for a period
equivalent to the period of proteotion to which
they were still entitled at the date of the outbreak
of hostilities. When, as a result of conditions
growing out of World War II, trade-mark rights of
the national of a country at war with Japan could
not be exeroised before the date of outbreak of
hostilities between Japan and the country of the
national ooncerned, euoh rights shall be restored
in accordance with the principles of this paragraph
for a period equivalent to the period of proteotion
to whioh those nationals were still entitled at the
date when their rights could not be exeroised.
2. Applioations for trade-marks which were
filed in Japan by nationals of countries at war
with Japan prior to the date of the outbreak of
hostillties, but final aotion on whioh had not been
completed at the time of the outbreak of hostilities,
should, on request of such nationals, be reinstated
as pending applications under the original filing
date. No fees should be required for reinstatement.
3. A national of a country at war with Japan
who had duly filed in any country the first appliea-
tion for a trade-mark not earlier than six months
before
RESTRICTED

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
- 2 -
before the effeotive date of loes of the right to
file trade-mark appllcations in Japan, or the
effective date of loss of opcortumity to exeroise
that right as the result of conditions growing
out of World nar II, should be entitled, within
twelve months after the date as determined by the
Supreme Commander, on whioh euoh nationals are
again permitted to apply for trade-marka in Japan
and to obtain legal services necessary for this
pur ose, to a; ply for corresponding rights in
Japan with a right of priority based upon the
previous first filing of the application.
4. The Japanese Government should adopt and
enforce appropriate regulationa to prevent registra-
ticn in the future of marke whioh are oonfusingly
similar to marks or names of foreign nationals whioh
are used by such foreign nationals anywhere and are
vell-known in Japan.
5. Nationals of countries members of the United
Netione ehould be permitted, within a reasonable
period to be estabiiahed by SCAr, to apply to the
Japanese Bureau of Patents for the oancellation of
the regietration of any trade-mark reglstered in
Japsn which so reaemblee a trade-mark or trade
name previously used by the appiicant and which 1s
well-known in Japan as to be likely to cavee con-
fuslon or mietake or to deceive purchasere. The
Japanere Bureau of Patents should deal expeditiously
with these app ications and, if the facte presented
by the ap licant are found to be correet, oancel
regiatration of such trede-marks.
6. Stepe should be teken to assure that merohan-
dise manufactured in Jepan should not be marked or
edvertised so as to suggest that it is made elsewhere
than in Japan.
7. Stepe should also be taken to assure that
goout exported from Japen are not so marked or
otherwise described as to convey a ralse impression
or their quantity, quality or content.
8. Trade-mark righte 1n Japan which now exist,
or whioh are restored, or which are newly acquired
during the period of occupation should be proteoted,
exoept
TED

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.94)
RES.AuTED
exeept where the continued proteotion of sueh rights
is in confliot with pelicies established is accerdance
with the Terms of Referenoe of the Far Eastern Cem-
mission.
9. The foregoing provisions ehould apply, wherever
applioable, to trade names and to commeroial or cor-
porate names or marks.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
APPENRIX
EXAMPLES OF AP LICATION OF SECOND SENTENCE PARAGRAPH 1
The following table contains examples of the way in which
the second sentence of Paragraph 1 of the propesed poliey would
apply. All of the hypothetical trade-marks listed below are
assumed to have been registered for a twenty year period. For
the purpose of the table, 30 June l949 is taken as the effeetive
date of the policy, and 30 June 1950 as the expiration date for
the "reasonable period" to be provided by the Supreme Commander
for the acceptance of requests for restoration of trade-marks.
"Restoration should . . . give the owners pro-
teotion from the date of restoration for a
period equivalent to the period of proteotion
to which they were still entitled at the date
of the outbreak or hostilitles."
jate of Outbreak
Unexpired Term
of Hostilities bet- of Trade-mark at
Expiratiem
Date of
ween Japan and Coun- ate of Outbreak
Date of
Date of Res-
Registration
try of Owner
of Hostilities
Restoration
tored Trade-
mark
7 Deo 1931
7 Deo 1941
10 yrs
15 July 1949 14 July 1958
7 June 1922
7 Deo 1941
6 mos.
1 Aug 1949
31 Jan 1950
8 Sept 1926
8 Dec 1941
4 yrs., 9 mos.
15 0ct 1949
14 July 1954
20 Maroh 1933
8 Deo 1941
11 yre., 3 mos., 5 Feb 1950
18 May 1961
14 jaye
26 Nov 1929
7 July 1937
12 yrs., 4 mos., 15 Mar 1950
2 Aug 1962
19 days
4 Oot 1940
7 Deo 1941
18 yre., 9 moe., 10 Sept 1950 7 July 1969
28 daye

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.92)
3
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY
HE04
WASHINGTON, D. C.
RAF
DIVISIUle of 17 August 1949
CORTHEAST ASIAN ARFA
1A flal/oa
FEC
refpertion
to Sesforhee
(cpy)
Mr. W. Walton Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
DCk
Department of State
Beply
m
Washington 25, D. C.
Nu
Dear Mr. Butterworth:
894.543/8-1749
Reference is made to your letter of 8 August 1949
to Mr. West, which forwarded a proposed directive for trans-
mission to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers con-
cerning trademarks, trade names and marking of merchandise
in Japan. The text of this directive has been furnished
SCAP by the Joint Chiefs of Staff on 13 August in cable
WAR 92834.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff have now made available to
us mimeographed copies of the directive, four copies of which
are enclosed herewith. Certified copy number 1 is forwarded
for transmittal by the Department of State to the Far Eastern
Commission. The remaining copies are for your files.
It is requested that this office be notified of the
date on which copy number 1 is filed with the Secretary of
the Far Eastern Commission.
Sincerely yours,
TRACY S VOORHEES
Assistant Secretary of the Army
AUG311949
FILED
191895
Encls
Directive SerialNo. 105,
894.543
cys 1 thru 4.
—1749
小

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.96)
2
Serial No. 105
COPY NO
13 August 1949
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES AND MARKING OF
MERCHANDISE IN JAPAN
The following directive, Serial No. 105, regarding trade-
marks, trade names and marking of merchandise in Japan, pre-
pared by the Department of State to implement the policy adopted
by the Far Eastern Commission on 28 July 1949 under the pro-
visions of Paragraph II, A, 1, of its terms of reference has
been received from the Department of the Army for transmission
to you for your guidance in accordance with Paragraph III, 1,
of its terms of reference:
"The Far Eastern Commission decides as a matter of policy
the following:
"1. Trademark rights in Japan which, at the date of the
outbreak of hostilities between Japan and the country of
the national concerned, belonged to Nationals of countries
at war with Japan should be restored upon request made
within such reasonable period and in such manner as may be
provided by the Supreme Commander. Restoration should be
made without payment of any fees and should give the
owners protection from the date of restoration for a
period equivalent to the period of protection to which
they were still entitled at the date of the outbreak of
hostilities. When, as a result of conditions growing out
of World War II, trademark rights of the national of a
F
Hult
a6
D

=== Page 115 === (confidence 1.00)
country at war with Japan could not be exercised before
the date of outbreak of hostilities between Japan and the
country of the national concerned, such rights shall be
restored in accordance with the principles of this para-
graph for a period equivalent to the period of protection
to which those nationals were still entitled at the date
when their rights could not be exercised.
"2. Applications for trademarks which were filed in
Japan by Nationals of countries at war with Japan prior to
the date of the outbreak of hostilities, but final action
on which had not been completed at the time
of the out-
break of hostilities, should, on request of such nationals,
be reinstated as pending applications under the original
filing date.
No
fees should be required for reinstate-
ment.
"3. A National of a country at war with Japan who
had
duly filed in any country the first application for a
trademark not earlier than 6 months before the effective
date of loss
of the right to file trademark applications
in Japan, or the effective date of loss of opportunity
to exercise that right as the result of conditions grow-
ing out of World War II, should be entitled, within 12
months after the date as determined by the Supreme Com-
mander, on which such nationals are again permitted to
apply for trademarks in Japan and to obtain legal services
necessary for this purpose, to apply for corresponding
rights in Japan with a right of priority based upon the
previous first filing of the application.
"4. The Japanese Government should adopt and enforce
appropriate regulations to prevent registration in the
future of marks which are confusingly similar to marks
or names of foreign nationals which are used by such
foreign nationals anywhere and are well-known in Japan.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
"5. Nationals of countries members of the United
Nations should be permitted, within a reasonable period
to be established by SCAP, to apply to the Japanese
Bureau of Patents for the cancellation of the registration
of any trademark registered in Japan which so resembles a
trademark or trade name previously used by the applicant
and which is well-known in Japan as to be likely to cause
confusion or mistake or to deceive purchasers. The
Japanese Bureau of Patents should deal expeditiously with
these applications and, if the facts presented by the
applicant are found to be correct, cancel registration of
such trademarlts.
"6. Steps should be taken to assure that merchandise
manufactured in Japan should not be marked or advertised
so as to suggest that it is made elsewhere than in Japan.
"7. Steps should also be taken to assure that goods ex-
ported from Japan are not so marked or otherwise described
as to convey a false impression of their quantity,
quality or content.
"8. Trademark rights in Japan which now exist, or which
are restored, or which are newly acquired during the
period of occupation should be protected, except where
the continued protection of such rights is in conflict
with policies established in accordance with the terms of
reference of the Far Eastern Commission.
"9. The foregoing provisions should apply, wherever
applicable, to trade names and to commercial or corporate
names or marks."

=== Page 117 === (confidence 1.00)
3
Serial No. 105
COPY NO.
13 August 1949
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES
AND MARKING OF
MERCHANDISE IN
JAPAN
The following directive, Serial No. 105, regarding trade-
marks, trade names and marking of merchandise in Japan, pre-
pared by the Department of State to implement the policy adopted
by the Far Eastern Commission on 28 July 1949 under the pro-
visions of Paragraph II, A, 1, of its terms of reference has
been received from the Department of the Army for transmission
to you for your guidance in accordance with Paragraph III, 1,
of its terms of reference:
"The Far Eastern Commission decides as a matter of policy
the following:
"1. Trademark rights in Japan which, at the date of the
outbreak of hostilities between Japan and the country of
the national concerned, belonged to Nationals of countries
at war with Japan should be restored upon request made
within such reasonable period and in such manner as may be
provided by the Supreme Commander. Restoration should be
made without payment of any fees and should give the
owners protection from the date of restoration for a
period equivalent to the period of protection to which
they were still entitled at the date of the outbreak of
hostilities. When, as a result of conditions growing out
of World War II, trademark rights of the national of a

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.96)
AUG 2519
In reply refer to
NA
Dear Mr. Voorhees:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
August 17, 1949, enolosing cories of a directive,
894.543/8-1749
Ser1sl No. 105, Trademarke. Trade Nemes. end Marking
of Merchandise in Japan, which has been sent to the
Supreme Commender for the Allied Powers by the Joint
Chiefs of Staff.
The certified cony lo. 1 of the direotive has
been sent to the Secretsry Generel of the Far Eastern
Commission for the files of the Commission as of this
date.
Sincerely yours,
John M. Allison
7
Deputy Director for
Far Eastern Affairs
894.543
AUG 24
A true copy of
the signed orlg-
U
Inal
CS/H
The Honorable
Tracy S. Voorhees,
Under Secretary of the Army,
Department of the Army.
wum
FE:NA:HWMoseley:ab
8/22/49

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.92)
In roply refer to
AUG 25 1949
NA
UNCLASSIFIED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY GENERAL,
894.543/8-1749
FAR EA TERN COMMISSION
There is enclosed herewith a certified copy of
a directive, Serial No. l05, Trademarke. Trade Names,
and Marking of Merchandise in Japan, to be filed with.
the Far Mastern Commiseion unuer the provisions of
paregraph III, 4, of its Terme of Reference.
P
John A. Allison
Deputy Director for
Far Esstern Affairs
AUG25194
enclosure:
Lopy No. 1 (certified)
of Directive to SCAr,
A truc copy of
a3
Serial No. 105.
the signed orlg-
0
Inal
CS/H
4.543
25
AUG 25 1949
al
18-1749
AUNCLASSIFIED
alr
A. copy 
FE:NA.HWMOseley:db
8/22/49
the signed -
al.
S/S-CR.2K!

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.96)
JML
LAWRENCE LANGNER
CHICAGO OFFICE
JOHN PARRY
TELEPHONE MURRAY HILL 9-6343
MONADNOCK BUILDING
HERBERT LANGNER
GEORGE VON GEHR
LEONARD J. ROBBINS
LANGNER, PARRY, CARD & LANGNER
WASHINGTON OFFICE
STEPHEN P. LADAS
S. DELVALLE GOLDSMITH
INTERNATIONAL PATENT AND TRADE MARK
GOO F. ST. N.W.
SIDNEY DESCHAMPS
VERNON A. PETERSON
SOLICITORS AND AGENTS
LONDON OFFICE
F. H. LOGAN
120 EAST 418T STREET
5 QUALITY OURT
A. C. GODDARD
NEW YORK 17, N.Y.
M. DESCHAMPS
R. E. BUCKNAM
E. G. SACHS
E. C. STREETER, JR.
lnf to arsun the
J. L. HERNANDEZ
H. P. PECK
E. BOWDEN
L. C. BARRETT
August 26, 1949
R. W. DE MARINIS
g?
Roger C. Dixon, Esq.
Acting Assistant Chief
International Resources Division
Department of State
INTERNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
Washington, D. C.
Cuikey  9-9
JHL
AUG29 1046
Dear Mr. Dixon:
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
1.
Thank you very much for your letter of August 18 enclosing
press release relating to the Far Eastern Commission's policy on
894.543/8-2649
Trade-Marks, Trade Names and Marking of Merchandise, in Japan.
2.
the time limits within which the provisions under 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the
policy may be availed of. I shall appreciate it very much if you will
advise us when this has been done.
3.
I further assume that provision 1, elthough it does not ex-
plicitly so state, covers also the case of renewal of trade-mark regis-
trations by American nationals which may have expired after December 7,
194l and which could not have been renewed until this time. As you will
appreciate, in such case there is no question of restoring for the umex-
pired period, but rather reinstating the registration as of the date of
its expiration and renewing it now as of the date of the expiration.
4.
Does this provision mean that if an American mark registered,
for instance, in 1922 and which was due for renewal in 1942 and could not
be renewed, will now be reinstated as of the date of its expiration (thus
CS/A
preserving the priority of 1922) and the renewal term of 20 years will
be computed from the actual date renewal is applied for, for instance,
November15, 1949?
5.
Thousands of American trade-marks are in that condition, and
894.543
I assume that this will be explicitly taken care of by the directive of
the Supreme Commander.
Sincerely yours
196460
LANGNER PARRY CARD & LANGNER
By Thy Y. Ce
SPL CL
RRin
SEP 191949
8-2649
FILED

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
SEP121948
My dear Mr. Ladas:
neference 1s made to your letter of ugust 26, 1949 ack-
nowledgin receipt of my letter of August 18, 1949, enelosing
894.543/8-2649
a press release relating to the Far Fastern Commission's
policy on trade-marks, trade names and marketing of merchandise
in Japan.
We anticipate that the Supreme Commander will shortly
issue a directive setting forth the time limit within which the
rights established unier this policy may be sought. When a
co y of this directive is rectived, it will be published in the
fficlal azette of the Patent Office.
Accordin to the policy decision of the Far Tastern
Co mission, trade-marl: rights in Japan which at the outbreak
of hostilities belon ed to nationals of countries at war with
Japan should be restorcd upon request for a period equivalent
to the period of protection to which they were still entitled
at the date of the outbreak of hostilities. Thus, a trade-
mark registered in 1924 which would have normally expired on
December 7, 1944, will be restored on the date or application
for restoration, for example, November 15, 1949, with a period
of three years to run. t the end of this time, that is,
ovenber 15, 1952, the owner of the trade-mark registration
must renew his regis ration in accordance with the Japanese
trade-mark law, and the renewal eriod will start on November
CS/A
16, 1949. In all cases encept trade-marks which normally would
have exvired on ecember 7, 1941, there will be an additional
period
r. tephen P. Ladas,
Langner, arry, Card & Langner,
894.543
120 Fast 4lst Street,
New York 17, New York.
RKM.
8-2649
CE

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
period for the trade-mark registration to run after the date
of restoration. It is assumed that SC&P will make the
appropriate administrative regulations which will permit trade-
mark owners whose trade-marks will expire within a short time
after the restoration to apply for renewal at the same time
as the application for restoration is submitted. However, it will
be necessary to pay the renewal fee. With respect to the priority
date of the trade-mark registration, it is expected that in all
cases the first priority date will be preserved, since restore-
tion as of the outhreak of hostilities means that there will be no
break in the continuity of the trade-mark registration.
I hope that this will clear up the questions you have
concerning the FFC policy, but if this explanation is not
adequate, please do not hesitate to communicate with me further.
Sincerely yours,
loger C. Dixon
Acting Assistant Chief
International Resources Division
ITP:IR:JMLightman:prg
9-9-49
CR
SEP 12 1949 AM.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
Lesiom e
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
oFTHe oction nececs
UNITED STATES OFAMERICA
5+6
894.543/ 9-1749
ATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
bezs of Orfluer
File
Uttted istate 90y8litioal Adviser
SEP 29,1949.
for Japan
REC ID
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SEPT 26
Tokyo, September 17, 1949.
ACTION
No. 647
ITP
INFO
UNCLASSIFIED
FR
DCR
894.543/9-1749
FE
OLI
UNA
L
Subject: Transmission of SCAP Memorandum for Japanese
COM
Government regarding Trade-Marks, Trade Names,
TAR
and Marking •f Merchandise in Japan.
TREAS
1/
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a copy
of a memorandum dated September 9, 1949, sent by General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, to the Japanese Government
on the subject of "Trade-Marks, Trade Names, and Marking of Merchan-
dise in Japan."
This memorandum, designated as SCAPIN 2042, directs the Japanese
Government to restore prewar trade-mark rights to nationals of
countries at war with Japan and to take steps to ensure that trade-
marks of United Nations nationals are adequately protected in the.
future. SCAPIN 2042 also requires that merchandise manufactured in
and/or exported from Japan will not be marked with false or mislead-
ing marks of origin, quality, quantity or content.
2/
As of additional interest, there is enclosed a copy of a press
release entitled "Trade-Marks to be Restored" and issued September
12, 1949, by the Public Information Office, General Headquarters,
Far East Command, Tokyo.
The implications of SCAPIN 2042 are obvious to those familiar
with prewar Japanese disregard for trade-mark rights owned by foreign
nationals, and the all too common practice of wilfully marking mer-
chandise in an effort to mislead the buyer as to the country of
FAP
origin. The drastic changes in procedure and attitude required by
this directive are urgently necessary in Japan's own interest,
looking toward her accession to the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade and membership in the International Trade Organization.
Translations of all Japanese laws, regulations, et cetera, pro=
FILED
mulgated to carry out the provisions of this SCAPIN, will be trans-
Y
mitted to the Department when. available.
9
UNCLASSIFIED
CACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokgo's Despatch No. 647,
September 17, 1949.
-2-
Enclosures:
1949, on subject "Trade-Yarks, Irade
Mamee, and Karking of Herchandise in
"
a/  of press reloase untitled "Trade-
Tark Rights to be Restored," issued
September 12, 1949, by Public Informa-
Lion Ccfice, Gonecel Headpuorters, Far
art Jon and, Tokgo.
Copies to: American Dabassy, London
American Embassy, Manila
Acerican Consulate General, Hong Kong
Anerican Consulate General, Singapore
503
CHBoehringer:pr
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 125 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 647
dated September 17, 1949, from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Trans-
mission of SCAP Memorandum for
UNCLASSIFIED
Japanese Government regarding Trade-
Marks, Trade Names, and Marking of
Merchandise in Japan".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREE COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG O72 (9 Sep 49) CPC/FP
9 September 1949
SCAPIN 2042
MEMORANDUM FOR: THE JAPANESE GOVERNNENT
SUBJECT:
Trade-Marks, Trade Names and Marking of Merchandise
in Japan
1. The Japanese Government is directed to provide and enforce
the necessary procedures to implenent the provisions of this memo-
randum relating to trade-marks, trade names, and marking of mer-
chandise in Japan.
2. Trade-mark rights in Japan which, at the date of outbreak
of hostilities between Japan and the country of the national con-
cerned, belonged to nationals of countries at war with Japan and
which have since been cancelled or invalidated or have lapsed by
reason of expiration of term shall be revalidated and restored on
request of the former owners or their successors, without payment
of any fees, and shall remain in force from the date of such re-
storation for a period equivalent to the period of protection to
which they were still entitled at the date of the outbreak of
hostilities.
3. When, as a result of conditions growing out of World War II,
trade-mark rights of the national of a country at war with Japan
could not be exercised before the date of the outbreak of hostili-
ties between Japan and the country of the national concerned, such
rights shall be restored in accordance with the principles of para-
graph 2 above for a period equivalent to the period of protection to
which such national was still entitled at the date when his rights
could not be exercised.
4. Any actions or procedures taken with respect to applications
for registration of trade-marks in Japan by nationals of countries at
war with Japan or with respect to demands for trial or appeals against
rejection of claims for registrations of trade-marks in which such
nationals comprised one or both of the parties, and on which final
action had  ot been taken at the date of the outbreak of hostilities,
shall on
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 126 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 647,
September 17, 1949.
-2-
shall on request of such nationals, be declared to be null and void
and the status of such applications, demands for trials or appeals
shall be considered to be the same as it was at the outbreak of
hostilities. Similar provisions will be made in respect of applica-
tions, demands for trials or appeals made for and on behalf of such
nationals after the outbreak of hostilities. No payment of any
special fees shall be required for such reinstatement.
5. A national of a country at war with Japan who had duly filed
in any country the first application for a trade-mark registration
not earlier than six months before the outbreak of hostilities, or
the date of loss of opportunity to file an application in Japan as
the result of conditions growing out of World War II, shall be en-
titled, upon request, to apply for corresponding registration in
Japan with a right of priority based upon the previous first filing
of the application.
6. The Japanese Government shall adopt and strictly enforce
appropriate regulations to prevent registration in Japan of marks or
trade names which are confusingly similar to marks or names of foreign
nationals which are used by such foreign nationals anywhere and are
well-known in Japan.
7. Nationals of countries members of the United Nations shall
be permitted to apply to the Japanese Patent Agency for the cancella-
tions of the registrations of any trade-marks registered in Japan
which so resemble marks or names previously used by the applicants
and which are well-known in Japan, as to be likely to cause confusion
or mistake or to deceive purchasers. The Japanese Patent Agency
shall deal expeditiously with such applications and, if the facts
presented by the applicants are found to be correct, shall cancel
registrations of such trade-marks and allow registrations of the
applicants' trade-marks if they so desire.
8. The Japanese Government is further directed to take positive
steps to:
a. Assure that merchandise manufactured in and/or exported
from Japan is not marked or advertised so as to suggest that is is
made or processed elsewhere than in Japan.
b. Assure that goods made in or exported from Japan are not
so marked or otherwise described as to convey a false impression of
their quantity, quality or content.
9. Requests in accordance with paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, or 7
above may be made within one (1) year from the date of the legislation
which will carry into effect the provisions of this memorandum. In
addition, a reasonable time thereafter shall be permitted such owners
to perform all legally required acts in connection with restoration,
revalidation, use, and/or maintenance of their rights which may not
have been performed since the loss of opportunity to exercise such
rights.
10. The
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 647,
September 17, 1949.
-3-
10. The foregoing provisions shall apply, whenever applicable,
to trade names and to commercial or corporate names or marks.
1l. The Japanese Government will submit to General Head-
quarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers for approval, not
later than thirty (30) days from the date hereof, proposed legis-
lation, cabinet orders, and/or ministerial orders setting out the
laws, procedures, and practices intended to carry out the provisions
of this memorandum.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
R. M. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 128 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 647
dated September 17, 1949, from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Trans-
mission of SCAP Memorandum for
Japanese Government regarding Trade-
UNCLASSIFIED
Marks, Trade Names, and Marking of
Merchandise in Japan".
(Copy of press release issued September 12, 1949, by Public
Information Office, General Headquarters, Far East Command,
Tokyo)
TRADE-MARK RIGHTS TO BE RESTORED
The Japanese government has been directed to restore prewar
trade-mark rights to nationals of countries at war with Japan and
to take steps to ensure that trade-marks of United Nations nationals
are adequately protected in the future.
The directive, issued today by GHQ, SCAP, also requires that
merchandise will not be marked with false or misleading marks of
origin, quality, quantity or content.
Another important provision of the directive will enable
nationals of countries at war with Japan who registered new trade-
marks in any country during the war, but who could not register
them in Japan because of circumstances arising out of World War II,
now to file corresponding applications in Japan with a right of
priority based upon the date of the first foreign application.
These applications will thus have priority of date over any inter-
vening registration by a Japanese national.
For the guidance of nationals of countries at war with Japan
and United Nations nationals having an interest in these matters it
was stated that further information concerning restoration of prewar
registrations may be obtained from the Civil Property Custodian,
whereas officials of Economic and Scientific Section will advise on
other aspects of the policy.
The directive specifically provides:
1) Trade-mark rights in Japan belonging to nationals of coun-
tries at war with Japan and which expired or were cancelled because
of circumstances arising from World War II shall be restored on
request.
2) Upon restoration these rights will remain in force for a
period equivalent to the period of protection to which they were
entitled at the date of outbreak of hostilities or, in some circum-
stances, at the date when the rights could not be exercised.
3) Upon request, prewar pending applications of such nationals
shall be reinstated and processed in the usual manner.
4) A national
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 647,
September 17, 1949.
-2 -
4) A national of a country at war with Japan who had filed the
first application for a trade-mark in any country not earlier than
six months before the date of loss of opportunity to file a corres-
ponding application in Japan, shall be entitled to apply for regis-
tration in Japan with a right of priority based on the previous first
filing in a foreign country.
5) The Japanese government shall adopt and enforce regulations
to prevent future registrations of marks which are similar to marks
or names of foreign nationals which are used by them anywhere and
are well-known in Japan. United Mations nationals shall be permitted,
within a reasonable time, to apply for cancellations of trade-marks
registered in Japan which so resemble trade-marks or trade names
previously used by the petitioners and well-known in Japan, as to be
likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive purchasers.
6) Merchandise manufactured in Japan or exported from Japan
shall not be marked so as to suggest it is made elsewhere than in
Japan and shall not convey any false iapression of their quantity,
quality, or content.
7) The foregoing provisions shall apply, wherever applicable,
to trade names and to commercial or corporate names or marks.
8) The various requests must be made by nationals of countries
at war with Japan or other United Nations nationals within 12 months
after the promulgation of legistlation designed to carry the pro-
visions of this directive into effect.
-0-
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.97)
TRADE AcTIVITIES, Inc.
347 MADISON AVENUE
NEW YORK 17, N. Y.
October 19, 1949
OCT 25194G
Hon. Roger C. Dixon, Acting Ass't Chief
PATENT
Internaticnal Resources Division
ADEMAR
AND
Department of State
REVIEW
Washington, D. C.
A WORLD-WIDE SURVEY OF
Re:
JAPAN - Memorandum SCAPIN No. 2042
THE LAW AND PRACTICE OF
of September 9, 1949
PAteNTS AND TRAde MARkS
SINCE 1902
Dear Mr. Dixon:
Subscription $10 yearly
We would appreciate your sending us, if avail-
able, a copy of Memorandum SCAPIN No. 2042 of
September 9, 1949, issued by General Headquarters,
TRADE MARKS
894.543/10-1949
Eupreme Commander of Allied Powers in Japan.
THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD
The above matter relates to trade-mark regis-
By
WHITE AND RAVeNScroFT
trations and trade-marks owned by nationals of the
Digests and data-tables of
Allied countries.
trade-mark law and practice
in all countries.
Thanking you for your attention to the above,
Loose Leaf Edition
we are
Price $25
Yours very truly,
PATENTS
THROUGHOUT
TRADE ACTIVITIBS, INC.
THE WORLD
EDS:ko
Emund abel Acolty
By
WHITE AND RAVENSCROFT
Digests and data-tables of
patent law and practice
in all countries.
Loose Leaf Edition
Price $18
894.543/
SUPPLEMENTS
revising the above books, com-
prising new and substitute
INTERNATIONAL RESONRUES VIVISION
pages, are issued at intervals
during the year.
OCT 20 1949
Annual Subscription $7.50
BEPANTMENT OF STATE
CS
10
for each book.
221186
H
-1949

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
OCT2519
In reply refer to
BP
My dear Mr. Scotti:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
October 19, 1949 requesting a copy of Memorandum
SCAPIN No. 2042 of September 9, 1949.
894.543/10-1949
The memorandum to which you refer is a directive
from SCAp to the Japanese Government, the first paragraph
of which reads as follows:
"The Japanese Government is directed to
provide and enforce the necessary procedures to
implement the provisions of this memorandum
relating to trade-marks, trade names, and mark-
ing of merchandise in Japan."
The memorandum then sets forth the provisions of the
Far Eastern Commission policy of August 16, 1949 con-
cerning "Trade-marks, Trade Names and Marking of
Merchandise in Japan", which I sent to you on August 22,
1949.
The final paragraph of SCAPIN 2042 states that:
"The Japanese Government will submit to
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers for approval, not later than
thirty (30) days from the date hereof, proposed
legislation, cabinet orders, and/or ministerial
orders
Mr. Edward Dill Seotti,
Trade Activities, Inc.,
RRm
894.543
347 Madison Avenue
CS/H
New York 17, New York.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
orders setting out the laws, procedures, and
praetices intended to carry out the provisions of
this memorandum."
When these orders and regulations are issued by the
Japanese Government and SCAP, we shall send you a eopy.
Sincerely yours,
Rey
Roger C. Dixon
Acting Chief, International
Business Practices Policy Staff
JoG
ITP:BP:JAGreenwald:s1
10-24-49
OCT 25

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.96)
COPY
NTERNATIONAL RESOUROES DIVISION
IN REPLY. PLEASBREFER
TO FILE NUMBER
OFFICE OF ALIEN PROPERTY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
HGH:PEL:ON:01
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ReD
File No. F-39-1150
October 31, 1949
JAG
JML
Office of the Undersecretary of Army
Washington 25, D. C.
Attention:
Colonel Edward . Hendrick
Chief, Far Eastern Affairs Group
Sir:
Reference is made to a letter dated February 28, 1949 from
Colonel T. S. Pirrs, then Deputy Chief, Civil Affairs Division of the
Army, concerning the trademark "Aji-lo-loto". In this letter he stated,
among other things:
894.543/10-
"It is important, therefore, to the objectives
of the occupation of Japan that distributors of
P
Ajinonoto in Hawaii and the United States be
permitted to use the name 'Aji-llo-ioto' in the
distribution of products purchased from Ajinomoto
Company, Inc.".
In reply, in a letter dated July 29, 1949 addressed to Colonel Riggs, we
advised that we had issued a revecable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license
to use the trademark "Aji-llo-ioto" to Vilbur-Ellis Company, San Francisco,
N
California, and that we are prepared to issue similer licenses to other
importers of the goods who may obtain mono s odium glutamate from Ajinomoto
49
Company, Inc., Tokyo. We thereafter issued a license to use the trademark
"Aji-llo-lMoto" to T. Sunida, Ltd., of Honolulu, Hawaii, which company is
approximately 906 owned by this Offic e, on the understanding that they would
obtain the goods on which it was used from Ajinomoto CompanyIno
二
In December of 1947 we issued a nuiber of revocable no rexclusive,
royalty-free licenses to various firms to import food product macked with
the "Geisha" brand tradeerk. Our decision to issue these linses was
influenced by a letter from Brigadier General W. M. Marquat, Chief of
Economic and Scientific Section of the General Headquarters of SCAP, to
Hr. Ceorge A. Jensen of Jensen McLean Company, Inc., one of the applicants
894.
for license. In his letter General Marquat said, "Present restrictions
prohibit contracts between Japanese manufacturers and suppliers and any
buyers outside Ja an. Therefore, it is impossible at the present time for
Nozaki Brothers legally to restore prewar arrangements for exclusive dis- O
tribution of their product. Boeki-Cho is investigating Japanese anti-trustS
h
3
H
0
001346
1
3
Hrd

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
Att: Col. Edward W. Hendrick
- 2 -
October 31, 1949
legislation to determine the right of this government agency to become involved
in international contracts of this nature."
There has been, as you no doubt know, discussion of a proposed
agreement by the Far Eastern Conmission which would require the replacement
of clc Japanese trademerks. At that time such information as we had left
with us the impressior thet Japanese firms would not be permitted to enter
into exclusive sales agency agreements with foreign firms.
I'nder date of Septomber 1c, 1949, Mr. Gross, Manager of the
Office of Alien Property in Honolulu, reported that T. Sumida & Company, Ltd.
had received information fron its purchasing agent Sunida Bussan Kabushiki
Kaisha of Tokyo, Janan, to the effect that Ajinomoto Company, Inc. has entered
into an exclusive.sales agreement with Wilbur-Ellis Company, and will not
sell directly to T. Sumida & Compeny, on the ground that SCAP has adopted
a policy removing its ban on exclusive sales agreements on and after Aug-
ust 15, 1949. Yr. Gross advised that the terms on which Wilbur-Ellis
Company will sell the product to companies desiring to handle Ajinomoto
in the Inited States and Hawaii are that they pay Wilbur-Ellis Company a
price approximately 5% higher than the landed cost prevailing prior to the
granting of the exclusive agency. In a letter dated September 23, 1949
r. Gross repeats this information and adds that sale of Ajinomoto by
Wilbur-Fllis Company's representetives are conditional as to quantity and
size of content allotted by the conpany to other distributors.
This Office is prepared tc issue royalty-free, non-exclusive
licenses to importers of Japanese goods who wish to sell the product of
Ajinomoto Company, Inc., Tokyo, provided they can show that they purchased
the goods from the original source, but it appears that non-exclusive
licenses would be meaningless if the distributors cannot purchase the
"oods fron the Japanese company because of its exclusive agency agreement
with Wilbur-Ellis Company. This would result in establishment of an
exclusive license to use the mark in Wilbur-Ellis Company, a situation
in conflict with the present non-exclusive licensing policy of this Office.
In order that we may have all of the facts before us in determin-
ing what action we should take with respect to this trademark, we will
appreciate having from you a statement as to whether in fact SCAP has
pemitted the resumption of an exclusive export arrangement by Ajinomoto
Company, Inc., Japan, and what weight should be piven any theory that this
exclusive agency will further the objectives of the occupation forces or
aid in restoration of Japanese industry.
Ye will appreciate an answer from you as promptly as possible,
because there is some doubt that the activities of Wilbur-Ellis Company,

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.98)
Att: Col. Edward W. Hendriok
-3-
October 51, 1949
particularly in Hawaii, will justify a continuation of our lioense to them.
We have not, at the moment, reached a detormination as to what action, if
any, should be taken by this Office, and eny infomation whioh you can give
us as to the attitude of the Far Eastern Affairs Group and representatives
of SCAi will be of assistanre to us in formulating appropriate polioy.
Very truly yours,
Harold I. Baynton
Deputy Director
Office of Alien I roperty

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.96)
RCD
Aotion Assigned to S.
Action Taken
--TAE FOREIGN SERVICE.
----OF-THE
Mrfice of the U. S. Political Adviser
Diréotion to DC/R
F12/2/49
for Japan
10
Tokyo, Hovember 17, 1949.
REC'D
NOV 25
No. 802
JL
ACTIN
RESTRIOTED
DCR
ITP
File
INFO
Subject: Ccmplaint by British Manufacturer Against Copying
DCR
of Textile Design by Japanese Concern.
FE
EIR
OLI
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose copies
L.
f correspondence, as listed below, exchanged between the United King-
COM
dom Liaison Mission in Japan and the Scientific and Technical Division,
TAR
Economic and Scientific Section, General Headquarters, SCAP, regarding
TREAS
a cpmplaint made by the British firm of Thot Broadhurst Lee Cc., Ltd..
Nanchester, against infringement by the Kanegafuchi Spinning Co., Ltd.,
Osaka, of the former firm's textile design.
894.543
The present case is of interest owing to the prominence of the
British and Japanese companies. The Japanese firm, it will be noted,
states that 'as we have been requested by the buyer we produced the
said patterr not knowing that it was already registered by another
firm. We promise that we will in future make the buyers be more care-
ful not to infringe upon registered designs."
attention is invited to the final paragraph in the memorandun dated
Hovember 15, 1949, sent to the United Kingdom Liaison Mission by the
Economic and Scientific Section, stating that "with regard to the genera?
subje:t of copying of designs by Japanese manufacturers, the opinion is-
expressed that the most effective preventive method would be for the
7
British manufacturers to register their own designs in this country."
49
xP
Enclosures:
1/ Copy of letter dated September 28, 1949,
from Tootal Broadhurst Lee Co., Ltd., to
Ecard of Trade, London;
21
Copy of letter dated September 29, 1949,
from Board of Trade to United Kingdom
Liaison Mission, Tokyo;
3/
Copy of memorandum dated November 15, 1949,
from Economic and Scientific Section, GHQ,
DEC1
SCAP, to United Kingdom Liaison Mission;
JAN 3 1950
XR
543
4/
Copy of undated memorandum to ESS, from
FILED
841.
Kanegafuchi Spinning Co., Ltd., Osaka.
Copies te:
American Embassy, London
American Consulate General, Singapore
Parchment Mat to Department.
0
510.23
INTERNATIONAL RESOUBRES DIVISION
CHBoehringer:lee
inc.att.
PEC5-1949
RESTRICTED
NND780069
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dy Z8G NANS, Doto 25T/411.80
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No, 802,
November 17, 1949, from the Office of
the U.S. Political Adviser for Japan,
RESTRIOTED
Tokyo, on the subject "Complaint by
British Manufacturer Against Copying
of Textile Design by Japanese Concern."
(COPY)
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE COMPANY LIMITED
P.O. BOX NO. 245
56, Oxford Street,
MANCHESTER 1.
TRADE MARKS DEPARTMENT
28th September, 1949
Board of Trade,
Commercial Relations and Exports Department;
I.C. House,
Millbank,
LONDON, 8 W.1.
For the Attention of Miss S. D. Wingate.
Dear Sirs,
We think you may be interested in the two enclosed samples of
loth. No. 1 is a cutting of one of our own productions. It is
printed with a design which is the subject of a registration in this
ccuntry in our name, Registered Design No. 413,133 in respect of
piece goods, Class 13, dated 4th December. 1947.  The registration
remains in force.
No. 2 is a cutting of fabric bought in Singapore by our agents
from a stall holder. The fabric we are informed, bore the marks
KANEBO
2000
BEST QUALITY
FAST. COLOUR
36" by 30 yds.
MADE IN OCCUPIED JAPAN
According to our information KANEBO is the cable address of the Kane-
gafuchi Cotton Spinning Co., 30 Shigino, Joto, Higashinari-Ku, Osaka,
Japan. You will see that the Japanese fabric bears a very close imi-
tation of our own design. Singapore gives protection to British Re-
gistered Designs, but unfortunately our agents, in spite of assist-
ance from the C.I.D. in Singapore, have been unable to trace the act-
ual importer of these goods, and it now seems unlikely that they will
succeed in doing so. We have no registration of the design in Japan,
but we should like to know whether the military authorities there
would take any action, either to prevent the Japanese manufacturer from
continuing to imitate British designs, or by requiring him to disclose
who is the importer of these goods into Singapore.
Yours faithfully,
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE COMPANY LIMITED,
(SGD) J.M. LUXMOORE
JML/JMM

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 802,
November 17, 1949, from the Office of
the U.S. Political Adviser for. Japan,
RESTRIOTED
Tokyo, on the subject "Complaint by
British Manufacturer Against Copying
of Textile Designs by Japanese Concern."
(COPY)
BOARD OF TRADE
COMMERCIAL RELATIONS AND EXPORTS DEPARTMENT
Millbank, London, S.W.1
BY FOREIGN OFFICE AIR BAG
28th September, 1949
Dear Mr. Lingeman,
I have had a complaint from Messrs. Tootal Broadhurst & Co.
which I think you should see, I attach a copy of their letter and
the two samples to which they refer.
I have advised the firm that their only real remedy is to take
advantage of the possibility which now exists to register their de-
signs in Japan. As, however, we have here a clear example of actual
copying, which involves the firm in very heavy loss, since I am told
that once the design has appeared in a cheap form on the market the
better quality cloth supplied by Messrs. Tootals in the same design
becomes unsaleable, perhaps you will take the matter up with SCAP
and see what they have to say.
Yours sincerely,
/s/ S. D. WINGATE (MISS)
E.R. Lingeman Esq.,
Minister Commercial,
United Kingdom Liaison Mission,
Tokyo.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 802,
November 17, 1949, from the ffice of
the U.S. Political Adviser for Japan,
RESTRICTED
Tokyo, on the subject "Complaint by
British Manufacturer Against Copying
of Textile Design by Japanese Concern."
(COPY)
Economic and Scientific Section
Scientific and Technical Division
JWO'B/ECK/ECA/vmp
C72(15 Nov 49)ESS/ST
15 November 1949
MEMORANDUM FOR: The Head of the United Kingdom Liaison Mission
in Japan
ATTENTION: Mr. Pierotti
SUBJECT:
Complaint of Infrigement
1. Reference is made to conversation between Mr. Pierotti of
the United Kingdom Liaison Mission and Lt. Colonel E. C. Allan, Econo-
mic and Scientific Section, Scientific and Technical Division, on 18
October 1949 concerning the production in and export from Japan of
cloth bearing a design originated by Tootal Broadhurst Lee Company
Limited of Manchester.
2. Following the above conversation, contact was made with re-
presentatives of Kanegafuchi Spinning Company who have submitted the
accompanying report.
3. It is believed that Kanegafuchi Spinning Company will not
supply any further orders for this design.
4. With regard to the general subject of copying of designs
by Japanese manufacturers, the opinion is expressed that the most ef-
fective preventive method would be for the British manufacturers to
register their own designs in this country.
FOR THE CHIEF, ECONOMIC AND SCIENTIFIC SECTION
JOHN W. O'BRIEN
Brigadier
I Incl
Scientific and Technical Division
Report
RESTRICTED

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 802,
November 17, 1949, from the Office of
the U. S. Political Adviser for Japan,
RESTRICTED
Tokyo, on the subject "Complaint by
British Manufacturer. Against Copying
of Textile Design by Japanese Concern."
(COPY)
TO
: CHEMICAL AND TECHNICAL DIVISION, ESS., GHQ.
FROM
: KANEGAFUCHI SPINNING COMPANY, LIMITED.
SUBJECT : WRITTEN EXPLANATION ON INFRINGEMENT OF REGISTRATION OF
DESIGN.
We have been notified by you that the design. of one of our cot-
ton prints for export was found to be registered at Singapore by the
Tootal Broadhurst LEE and Co., Manchester, England and we have inves-
tigated the matter and hereby submit to your office the result thereof.
As we have been requested by the buyer we produced the said pat-
tern not knowing that it was already registered by another firm. We
promise that we will in the future make the buyers to be more care-
ful not to infringe upon registered designs.
1. The said design was not designed by our company.
2. The original source of the design is unknown.
3. The design was submitted from the buyer to our company
to be printed.
4. Name of buyer: LAI HING CO., KOBE
5. Name of Supplier (In Japan):
Waida Shoten (Osaka Kobe)
Kobe Koeki K.K. (Kobe Tradeing Co.) (Osaka Kobe)
6. Destination: Singapore
7. Date of receipt of order: May 9, 1949
8. Date of shipment
: July 20, 1949
9. Quantity contracted for : 15,000 yds.
10. Quantity delivered
: 14,340 yds (660 yds: unsuitable
for export)
11. Buyer in Singapore: Kwong Seng Choeng Co.,
(We guess that the original offer will
be made by this firm)
FOR THE KANEGAFUCHI SPINNING CO., LTD.
/s/ H. Hamada
RESTRICTED

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.90)
United States Politicel Aviser
894.543/12-1349
for Jagen
2
OFFICE OF
INTERNATIONAL TRADE POLICY.TPLVO, DOSE.DEY 13. 194.
REC 'D
DEC 20
No. 
281949
ACTION
171
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNCLASSIFIED
INFO
FR
DCR
Subjest: Tr suissin ef "Cap melorendu for Japosese Gov 
YE
ment Regerding Irrcine of Expert Articies.
OLI
UNA
L
Seut to DcR
894.543/12-134
COM
TAR
THHAS
The Actire F.
Aerr har he honor to rofer to is
rrrsio 1s drepat u. 647 ss Septemter 17. 1940. oremamitting
coy of ea r e S Cnaer for the aried
Porers for te Joprees Geverrment  the subject of trade marks.
trate caos s the er e ef werehenliee in Jepen.
Per is o cicl rea e co  of a mo areadum fron the Suprene
Comee ler. dp ea Dececber . lo. eurther clerifytns for the
Jrupsere Govorment the wroceaure to be folloee is the darktne
of ell ar:icles preparer for export, as well as imediete con-
49
tainere and utside pecages ef cxpert itus. In implemente
tion of tho previcus cevranam of Septenter 9. le42, transaitted
under caver f tis Mic rsa's despetr referred to above, the
Jepenore Sr peat is  .roct to require that ell export
itens be eiapra, rre: or lebelled, ss nearly idelibly as
pereitc. with the vorae "mac le ln Occapted Jrpen", "Made in
An cx eptron to this rorronent is permitted under the
ter s  eclosed   randus snly vhen a bayer specifically
rooleste tact derl lmge cwiae Japan ee the euntry of sriein be
warttea. The buper ust also certify i hin ctrect with the
Japoncse spplier tut sh marks indicating the cowitry of
otigin rre not required mfre the leve of the cvantry of desti-
rotion.
The terne of the ench  sed me ereadum heve received fairly
extonsive coveree in the Jopanese preas, particaler erphasie
reiit pleced on the exceptiee mentlond ehove rather than on
the restrictive portis of the memorenam. There is also
21
excl:sed t cy of e SCAP prnse relense ated Decoaher 6, 1949
which
JAN 11
FILED
1950
UNCLASSIFIEL
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION 0F

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.92)
Tokyols Detpatc: No, 867.
December 18, 1949.
UNCLASSIFIED
which points out that tho exception eubodied in the ne prandn
is the result of minereis reqiosts recsived fron fovcigu buyers
who did not wish to hanhe merchandise marked "Made in Jepan".
Exclecures:
1.  Co ef SCAPIN 20S1 drtud Decc.ber 5,
1940.  subject: "Marking of Export
Articles".
Copy of ScAF press release entitled
"Modificction is M a. of Expert
Merx Rule", issued De eaber 6,
1949, by Public Informatisn Offi:
General Headquorters, Far East
Comnand, Tokyo.
Parchmoat Mat to the Depextment
Copies to:
American Enbassy, Lendon
Anericen Enbassy, Manile
Ancrieen Consulate Goneral, Hong Kong
Anerican Consulate Ganeral, Siacapore
511.2
RWAdans: keb
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despetch No. 3c7
deted Decerber 13, 194s fron the United
UNCLASSIFIED
States Political Adviser for Japel,
Tokyo, on the subject "Tremsmission of
SCAF Memorendum for Japanese Governuent
Regarding Marking of Export Articlec".
(COPY)
GENERAL READQUARTERS
SUPRENE COIEANDTR FOR TEE ALLIED POWERS
APC 50℃
A9 400.16 (14 A 43) ESS/FTC
5 Decenbor 1945
SCAPIN 2001
MEMORANDUM FOR:
Japonese Goverlment
SUBJECT:
Marking of Export Articles
1. References are following Memoranda for Japenese Govern-
ment from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers:
a. AG 400.16 (20 Feb 47) ESS/FT, SCAPIN 1535, 20 Febru-
ary 1947, subject: Marking of Export Articles;
b. AG 072 (9 Sep 49) CPC/FP, SCAPIN 2042, 9 September
1949, subject: Trade-Marks, Trade Names, and Marking of Merchen-
dise in Japan.
2. Reference 1 a. is hereby rescinded.
3. Except as permitted in paragraph 4, all articles pre-
pared for export, the immediate container thereof and the outside
package will be marked, stamped, branded or labeled in legible
English with the words "Made in Occupied Japan," "Made in Japan"
or "Japan".
4. The above requirement need not be fulfilled in those
cases where buyer requests omission thereof and certifies in the
contract with the seller that such marking, stamping, branding
or labeling is not required by country of destination.
5. All required marking, stamping, branding or labeling
shall be made in a conspicuous place and shall be as nearly inde-
lible and permanent as the nature of the article will permit.
6. The requirements listed in paragraphs 3 and 5 are in
addition to those set forth in paragraph 8 of reference 1b..
which provides that the Japanese Government take positive steps
to:
a. Assure that merchandise manufactured in and/or
exported from Japan is not marked or advertised so as to suggest
that it is made or processed elsewhere than in Japan.
b. Assure
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
Despetch No. 867,
December 13, 1949.
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
b. Assure that goods made in or exported from Japan.
are not so marked or otherwise described as to convey a false
impression of their quantity, quality or content.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
K. B. BUSH,
Brigadier General,. AGD,
Adjutant General.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No.. Sö?
deted Decamber 13, 1949 from the Ucited
UNCLASSIFIED
States Political Adviser for Japen,
Tokyo, on. the subirrt "Tranemission of
SCAP Memorandum for Japanese Governnent
Regarding Marking of Export Articles".
(COPY)
MODIFICATION IS MADE OF EXPORT MARK RULE
Tokyo, Dec. 6.-- SCAP approval of new regulations eliminating
the requirement for mandatory marking of all articles for export
was announced today by the Economic and Scientific Section.
Labelling of export items with the words "Made in Occupied
Japan", "Made in Japan" or "Japan" now may be omitted if requested
by the buyer. For such omission he will be required to certify
in the contract with the seller that such markings are not
required by the country of destination.
The Japanese Governuent will be responsible for taking
action to assure that merchandise manufactured in Japan is not
marked or advertised in a manner suggesting that it has been
made elsewhere. Such goods must be labeled or described in a
manner which will convey an accurate identification of their
quantity, quality or content.
The change was made after numerous requests had been
received to exempt goods from the marking provisions when des-
tined for a country not requiring them.
UNCLASSIFIED
