894.504 Economic Matters., Japan, Labor., April 26, 1945 - November 16, 1949 (File 1782), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.504-1782-2   Pages: 329   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.504-economic-matters-japan-7/894.504%20Economic%20Matters.%2C%20Japan%2C%20Labor.%2C%20April%2026%2C%201945%20-%20November%2016%2C%201949%201782-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDTIAL (Fer Use ef Department Oaly)
Tokye's No. 95,
Fobreary 15, 1948.
-2-
haman being" (Article I), is toe often interpreted to mean a standard
other tham that which the Japamese ecomomy can presently afford. The
fesling is expressed that what Japan meeds most at present is imoreased
preduction ef goods which can enly be ebtained through "sweat en the
brow" and that the more idealistic provisions of the Laber Standards
Lav, such as limitation ef werking hours, shomid bs suspended temperarily.
Amether aspect of this same preblem treated by the Cemmittes is
the difficulty encountered by industry in reducing the number of e
pleyees either for reasons of over-expansion or inefficient perferm-
ance. War requirements necessitated the expansion of productive
facilities and the development of sub-marginal industries. Japan's
industrial machine, the drafters urge, must readjust itself to world
ecomomic conditions through the elimination of higb-cost sub-margimal
imdustries and the reorganization of over-expanded industries in erder
to lower costs of production and increase efficiemcy. Although the
establishment of a single rate of exchange will assist in bringing
about such a realistic adjustment of industry, the position is taken
that Japan's industry camnot be reestablished en a sound and efficient
basis so long as a govermment-supported laber policy of "full empley-
ment" is followed, thereby burdening industry with unnecessary and
imefficient personmel. This does not mean, the Committee points out,
that umemployment allowances and unempleyment insurance, as well as
other measures desigaed to assist the unemployed should mot be
provided, on the contrary, they should. Furthermore, the Japanese
Govermment must alse face the problem of reduction in persoanel if
it is to effect badgetary savings and increase efficiency. The
figures used in the study, by way of illustration of this point,
indicate that there are more than five times as many gevermment
workers today as in 1932.
Concern is expressed by Mr. Kitaoks over the sharp decline in
the productivity of Japamese labor (he estimates labor is presemtly
emly one-third as efficient as it was pre-war) during the post-war
period, since Japan, in order te compete effectively for foreiga
markets, must be able to rely upon a highly efficient, but at the
same time, lew-cost labor supply. The opimiom is expressed that the
Trade Union Law must be revised if the rehabilitation of Japan's
ecomomy is to be achieved. Mr. Ketaoka feals that the provision
prohibiting an employer from dismissimg an employee because of union
membership or legitimate union activity has been construed to protect
unien members although they may be inefficient and undesirable
workers. In his epiniom, the provision making the pemal code
imapplicable to werkers pursuing legitimate union activities has
alse been construed to protect union members who have resorted to
violence and intimidation of management in the accomplishment of
their ends. Furthermore, the employer cannet by law disoharge
employees when they rosort to sympathy strikes, mor dismiss
cemmumists although communist influence leoms large in the Japanese
laber union movement. The position of masagoment is further
weakened by virtue of the waionisation of staff members.
With rogard to corrective measures, Mr. Kikaoka suggests
that the Government take steps to eradicate communist influence
八
from the laber unions and that employers be permitted to dismiss
10心
employees if they have proef of communist affiliatiom or activity.
Farthermore, employers should be given the right to dismiss employees
for violations
CONFIDRETIAL

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
COMFIMTIAL (For Use ef Department Only)
Tokyots No. 95,
Febraary 13, 1948.
- 3 -
for violations of working regulations, imefficient perfermmnce, and
fer participation in sympathy strikes. Legal pemalties should be
impesed for acts of violence and intimidation. Then tee, wmioms
should be required to report revemues to the Japamese Govermment,
and the Gevermment should assert its authority to prevent gemeral
industry-wide strikes.
In connection with the two enclosures referred to abeve, it
was thought that it might prove of interest to the Department se
enclose a copy of a sample collective bargaining contract. The
contract enelosed is the one presently in force between the Zen
Nippon Iki Trade Union and the Toyo Engineering Works ef Mitsubishi
Heavy Indastries, Limited. As is indicated in the contract, the
abeve-mamed Uaion is recogaised as the enly union at the Tope
Engineering Works plant and the Company agrees to have nothing to
do with any other labor organization. By this contract, the Cempamy
agrees to pay a wage that will stabilize the cost of living of the
wmiom-member workers. Provision is made for an eight-hour working
day with a one-hour rest period. Article 4 is of particular interest
since the Company cannct unilaterally employ, discharge, ehange er
promote persennel, or, raise wages, make rewards or institute
pemalties. In this connection, the Company has indicated that an
understanding has been reached with the Union whereby the Umion agrees
in general mot to interfere in changes of chiefs and heads of sectiens;
however, the Company will inform the Union in advance of proposed
changes and will take imto consideration Union wishes in this regard.
According to the contract, the Company agrees to discharge workers
expelled by the Union, and further, that it shall not contract with
other suppliers of labor to carry on work during a labor dispute.
Provision is made for the conclusion of a separate contract
between the Gompany and Union to establish a Mamagement-Labor Conference
to carry out the provisions of the labor contract, and matters agreed
upon by both are to be contractually binding. Article 9 is alse
worthy of special note since it provides that the Company camnot
close the plant for any appreciable length of time, mor can it
change the mame of the plant, or transfer any land, buildings,
equipment, machines or other Company property without first giving
notice to the Union. The Union is to participate im the promotion
of welfare activities and must consent te steps taken in this regard.
The Company is prohibited from revising er abolishing plant regulations
or systems of allowances without Union consent. With respect to
labor movements, Union members have complete freedon of actien and
the Company may not discrimimate in any way against them. Officials
of the Union are free to devote themselves to Union activities;
however, it is stipulated that the Company should be infermed of this
in advance. Likewise, Union members are free to join any political
party or to hold public office without interference from the Company.
Respectfully yours,
W.r.Seczee
William J. Sebald
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
 (Per Wee of Departmeat Caly)
1. Stady atitled "Policies to
Cepe with the Impending
Ecememic Collapse of Japan"
2.
Translation of Statement
Eatitled "Need of Changing
Laber Poliey as the Jundamental
Prerequisite for Ecenomic
Rehabilitmtion of Japan".
3.
Memorandum Regarding Collective
Bargaining Contract Between the
Mitsubishi Heavy Industry
Company, Limited and the Zen
Eippon Kiki Trade Union.
850.4
DBane/be
CONLIDNTIAL
人

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIPTLAL (For Use of Department Only)
Emclesure No. 1 to Respatak
No. 95 dated Pobreary 18,
1948, from Toky0, Japan,
extitled "Cemments Regarding
the Laber Situation in Japan".
(OOPY)
Tokyo, Jasuary 30, 1948
POLICIES TO COPE WITH THE IMPENDING
ECOMOMIC COLLAPSE OF JAPAN
Japan is teday on the verge ef ecomomic collapse, and iaflation
is about to assume a calamitous proportion. Mamufasturing and
miming outputs are at the low point of about 30% the pre-war levels.
The official commedity prices have climbed to 40 times the pre-war
figures, accerding to the Bank of Japan index of Tokyo retail priees.
Rice, the staple feod and the biggest single item in the cest of
living of the Japanese people, is nov officially 67 timesas expensive
as before the hostilities, and in the black market has soared to the
astounding height of 580 times the pre-war price.
The Bank of Japan note issue, never more than *l, 600 milliem
before 1941, has passed the epochal 3200 billion mark at the end
of last year. Specially nete-worthy in this commectien is the fact
that, since April, l947, commodity prices have registered a far
sharper advance than the increase in the volume ef currency. This
resulted in an acute shortage of money for all institutioms, public
and private. Large-scale releases of financial and industrial funds
are demanded in conseyuence, aggravating the already dangerous
inflation.
The contiaued coal shortage and the recent insufficiency of
electric power supply have combined to cut down severely the out-
puts of iron and steel and other essential productive materials.
The very small preduction and the depleting stock-piles of these
materials are adversely affecting all industries, and are bound
to accelerate the inflationary tendency. These tegether with the
unsound program of public fimance and thoughtless ways ef cellecting
taxes and making payments led Japan face to face with a runasay
inflation. Short of very drastic measures taken immediately to
cembat this very real peril, mot omly is the ecomomic reconstruction
of the ceuntry absolutely hopeless, providing hot bed for the
further imfiltratioa of Cemmumism, but the execution of the eccu-
pation policies will be in danger of being serioualy hampered with.
As the drastic measures meeded to cope with this situation,
we venture to suggest the following:
1. Laber Uprest and Trepbles
Of the mumerous causes impeding the ecomomic recevery of Japan
teday, such as the shortages of capital, materials, foodstuffs and
ether necessities of life, the most serious is undoubtedly labor
unrest permeating all places of work and the commumist-directed
acts to ebstract productive efforts of all sorts. Nerely te over-
come the bottlemecks of capital and material shortages would mot
accomplish increased productien se long as labor uarest and troubles
remain, creating as they do fresh bottlemecks in the supply ef raw
materials and transportation of the same.
An iastance to the point is the coal preductiem in Hokkaido.
However much capital, matorials, laber, foodstuffs and other
necessities
CONPIDENTIAL

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFITIAL (For Use ef Department Only)
Page 2 to Enclesure No. 1
to Dospatah Ne. 95 dated
Febraary 13, 1968, frem
Tekyo, Japan, eatitled
"Comments Regarding the
Laber Sitmatien ia Japan".
- 2 -
necsssities ef life were peured into the coal indastries there by the
Gevermment, actual monthly output mever exceeded 90 ef the goal set
for them. Sabotepr tactics, such as "mine safety campaigms",
inspired by the All-Japan Coal Minerst Union, an NCIO affiliate,
was respomsible fer this state of affairs. In December, however,
there was a suddem purt, and the goal fer the month is passed.
Fer this remarkable result it is conceded that the presence at the
mimes of GHQ and local Government Team representatives was chiefly
responsible, since it had the effect of bringing considerable pres-
sure to bear upon the Union and of doing away with laber treubles.
The Miners' Union, however, has by no means wavered from its fixed
policy of carrying on labor disputes on local basis; mor has it
ceased the tenacious attempts at obstructing preductive efferts.
The future outleok permits mo optimism.
In the field of tramsportation, the "railway safety movement"
and mass absenteeism carried out, under the directiom ef NCIO
leaders, in Lomori Bailway Bureau area, served to throttle at
the crucial point the increased flow of Hokkaide ceal into the
comsumption areas in Honshu. There are reasons to suspect that
interruptioms ef electric supply, so detrimental to all produo-
tive efforts, are more a covert, willful act desigmed to inter-
fere with productien programs, than what the power shortage
really calls fer. The wildcat strikes of the Cemmunication Werkers'
Union, the inflexible ebservance of effice-clesing hours, and the
scrupulous insistence upon vacation by goverament employees are all
due to, or at any rate influenced by communist agitatioms that are
capitalising the diminution of laborers' will te work.
Labor unions under commumist domination are aware of the fact
that their gemeral strike tactics had to be abandened under the
GHQ pressure, and that they had incurred the resentment of the
people at large. They are mow resorting, with wave-like precision
and repetitien, to wildcat and local strikes. These attempts at
hampering productive activities, and threby bringing catastrephic
inflation, ecomomic chaes, and social disorder, are all after the
same Communist Internationale pattern ef actioms pursued every-
where. As long as this situation contimues, not ealy will the
domestic imvestors hesitate to put their capital imto enterprises.
but foreign capital canmot be induced to this country, mo matter
bew much we desire it to find its way here. It can be truthfully
said, therefere, that the reconstruction of Japan will mot be
achieved without first doing away with labor unrest and troubles.
For this end, we must advecate the elimination of communistic
elements and the amendment of labor laws.
(1) Elimimation of Communistic Elements.
a). Some actiens should be taken agaimst those whe imperil the
state and the people, svem though suppressien of the
freedom of thought would be ill-advised.
b). Measures should be adepted to drive communists and their
fellow travellers out of all laber umions and other fields
connected with productive activities.
(2). Amendment
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
COYIIAL (For Use ef Departmeat Caly)
Pege Lo. 8 to Easlesare No. 
to Despatah No. 96 dated
Febraary 15, 1948, frem
Tokye, Japan, emsitled
"Comments Regarding the
Labor Sitwatien in Japaa".
-3-
(2) Amemdment of Labor Lawe.
a). The existing labor laws of Japan in general should be
revieved, and mecessary revisions made thereto, ia lime
with the Taft-Hawley Act recently emacted in the Umited
States.
b). A pertion of the Japan's Trade Usion Act in particular
should be amended. The Trade Umiom Act, passed in October,
1945, when there were mo unions wortky ef the name, is as
ephocal piece of legislation for the democratisatiom of the
country, and contains many advanced festures. It mast be
admitted that, as explained in greater details im the
"Conditions Desired by Most of the Japanese as Mecessary
for the Reconstruction of Japan" appended herete, the pelicy
written inte the law to encourage trede uaieniam had the
effect of misleading the socially immature and imexperienced
masses in Japan inte a lamentable confusion of democracy with
commmmism, - a veritable sharp raser im the hands of a mere
infant.
It is highly gratifyimg that GHQ has, ever simce December,
1946, when the "Twelve Basic Primaciples" were given out
manifested a serious concern with the guidance and education
of labor umioms here. It is hoped that motice will be taken
of the meed, in the light of the existing condition in this
country, ef mot a few amendments to the present Trade Union
Act.
For example, it is suggested -
To make clear the iliegality of Production Mamgemeat by
Workers:
To amend the law so as to emsure neutrality and fair
operation of the Labor Belations Boards;
To amend that pertien of the law which mow recogaizes the
right of uniomization of goverament and public omployees en-
gaged in pure admimistrativo functions;
To defime the scepe of those who are presumed to represent
employers' interests;
Te prescribe regulatioms for the orderly conduct im all
collective bargainings and
To prescribe regulatioms clearly defining the prohibiting
unfair acts by vorkers.
0)。
Parts of the Labor Standards Act should be suspeaded for
the time being.
This Act, promulgated on April 5, 1947, setting dowm the
minimum stamdards of labor conditions to be arrived at im the
bargaining
CONFIDESTIAL

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
CONINTIAL (For Use of Department Caly
Page Éo. 4 to elesere 
to Despateh Ne. 95 datcé
Febreary 15, 194s, frem
Tokye, Japan, eatitled
"Comments Begarding the
Labor Situatien in Japan".
bargaining cenducted by capital and laber standing en an equal
feoting, is an ideslistic law. Is the present state ef secial
consciousness of the average Japanese workers, the "liveliheed
werthy of a human being" which the law iatends te gmaraatee
to every worker, is only teo often misunderstood to mean some-
thing altogether alien to that which the actualities of our
mational economy and enterprises would warrant. Not enly
that, but it tends to make labor fully comscieus of all its
rights but only faintly conscious ef all its obligatioms,
often degenerating genuime labor movements inte cemmumistie
agitations.
What Japan meeds most at the present juncture is increased
production of goods, - i.e., to work with sweat on the brew.
Viewed from this angle, the law appears to be teo progressive.
We incline to the view that steps should be taken te suspend
temporarily such labor staadards as are too idealistic; e.&o.
limitation of working hours, welfare and hygiemic facilities.
●tc.
II. Thorough-going Reorganization of Eaterprises.
Recomstruction of Japan's economy must be undertaken with the
object of participating in the near future in the ecomemy of the
werld. During the war years, increased productiem was attempted
merely through forced expansion of capital investment, in utter
disregard of the productivity of various industries and of the
intermational standard of technolegy. Over-expanded esterprises
should in these post-war days be thoroughly overhauled and completely
rationalised as a matter of course, to the end of preparing them to
have their parts eventually in the world ecomomy.
It is true that, imsofar as financial aspects are concermed,
the swollem capitalization was considerably reduced by the cancel-
lation of the government war indemnities. But mo imprevement has
so far takem place on the techaical side of productive efforts.
Productivity declined to a marked degree, due to the diminished
will to work caused by the existence of surplus labor which in
turn was resulted by the retura of demebilised and repatriated
- a surplus which cannot be reduced because of me called full
empleyment theory. The resultant high production cests threw
Japamese goods out of aligment with competing goods in ths marts
of the world. Basically high commodity prices in Japan have their
root in the lowered productivity of her industries.  Unless and
until this fundamental hamdicap is removed, the onslaught of in-
flation can never be checked.
In the face of impending runaway inflation, thorough-geing
reorganization of enterprises is urgently required.
III. Admimistrative Reforms.
We strongly insist upon the ratiomalisation of all gevernment
organs, be they engaged in state enterprises or im purely admimist-
rative functions, mnd that as a prelude to the rationalizatien of
private business. Two things cempel us to this position of ours.
One obvioualy is that squandering of public funds, inefficiency
and retention
COMFIDENTIAL

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
COHFIRTIAL (Fer Use of Department Oaly)
Page No. 5 to melesare No. 1
to Despateh No. 95 dated
Febrwary 13, 194s, frem
Tokye, Japan, entitled
"Cemments Regarding the
Labor Situation in Japan".
and retention of superaumerary workers are the unsurmomtable im-
pediment to budgetary economy and an important contributery cause
of aggravating inflation. The other is the fact that by the capi-
tulatiom to the Government Railways Workers' Union, which lauached
an offensive under the slogan of "full employment", in the summer
of l946, the Govermment set a precedent in labor relatioms, and
paved the way for the incessant demands in all subsequent labor
disputes for "full empleyment" as if it was an indisputable secial
justice.
History proves that full employment is hard of achievement
even in countries of vast territories, unlimited resources, and
trememdous imdustrial capacities, at the most prosperous of times.
How much more difficult then it must be for the present-day Japan
to realise this ideal. Considerable unemploymemt will have to be
faced as inevitable because of the urgently needed reorganisatioms
within, and adjustments among, different industries. It goes
without saying that unemployment allowances, unemployment insurance,
and other social measures must be provided for the amelioration of
the let of the jobless. Yet it is a stern fact that, without
facing unemployment, Japan's industries can never hope to be
rationalized and put on a sound basis.
Marshalling all the powers at its command, therefore, the
Government should accomplish its administrative reforms, reduce the
surplus personnel, and so set an example for private busimess to
follow. As of October, l947, goverment officials, excluwsive of
those in state enterprises, reached the unprecedented number of
510,000, which is more than five times the total of govermment
workers in the days of budgetary economy of 1932. The Goverament
intends to effect a mere 20% personnel reduction in preparing its
1948 budget. To such a half measure we are unalterably opposed.
Iv. Determination of Yen-Dollar Standard Equivalence.
In the existing state of our foreign commerce, it would be
premature to fix a single rate of exchange between the dollar
and yen. We do hope, however, that at an early date a standard
of equivalence be fixed even temporarily between the two curren-
cies.
Care should be taken, when fixing such a standard, mot te
evaluate the yen at too low a level under the influence of indvidual
cases and instances. What we desire above all is to have a rational
equivalence determined that will be well-adapted and fit for the
general trend ef our future fereign trade. Once such an equivalence
is fixed, it is very much hoped that it will be actively supported
by the United States.
Fixation of equivalence will, as its corollary, bring about
the virtual extinction of enterprises that are over-staffed and
whose cost of production runs teo high. That is precisely what
it is expected to accomplish, vis., to accelerate and give direc-
tion for the rationalisation of industries. Without radical re-
organisations and readjustments begun in this fashion we shall
never be qualified, we believe, to ask for American credit, as we
constantly do, or to expect the inflow of foreign capital in the
future.
v. Lessening
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
COMFIDNTIAL (Fer Use of Department Oaly)
Page No. 6 to Eaalesare . 1
to Despatch No. 95 dsted
February 13, 194s, frem Tokye.
Japan, entitled "Cemmeats
Regarding the Laber Situation
in Japan".
-6-
v. Lessening the Burden of War Termimatiom Expenses.
It has become a common kmowledge among the Japanese people
that a large proportion of these expences is represented by the
eecupation cost. For the fiscal years 1946 and 1947, it accounted
for about eme-third the total mational expenditure, which was met
largely by higher taxes and advanced prices of the geverament
momepely goeds, until they have about reached the limit of the
people's capacity to bear them.
Farthermore, goods and materials required by Occupation Ferces
represent im a mumber of instances more than 50%, and in some cases
well over 90, the current preduction of commodities ándéspensable
fer the ecomomic recovery of the mation. It must met be everleeked
that carriage of the emormeus quantities ef these materials is
heavily taxing the impaired tramsportation facilities of these
pest-war days. We veature to hope that the Allied Powers would
import some of their needs from Abroad at Japan's expense, to be
settled later en. Such an arrangenent weuld go a very leng way,
we are convinced, te relieve the acute shortage of reconstruction
materials and to help prevent the calamitous inflation.
CONCLUSION
We feel that we have been highly privileged te have had this
oppertumity of candidly stating a fow fundamental measures deemed
essential to cope with the present ecomomic crisis, and of bring
ing them to your kind attention.
Most of these measures deal with problems of domestic ecomomy,
but in our opimion they are the conditions precedent to obtaiming
fereign credit. These measures we here advocate, because the
nation, unable to recover through her owm economic strength alene,
must, and we hope will, have a sizable oredit given her. It is
our comviction that omly by the grant of such a credit will our
country be able te rebuild her econemy, participate in the world
ecomomy when allowed to do so, and make her utmost contribution
to the mew economic order of the world.
The Gemeral Report of the Cemmittee on European Ecomomic Co-
operation says, in its General Outlime, that it is essential fer
the increased production of Eurepe and the accompanying larger
experts that the American market should absorb them, and allow
•ther countries to acquire Americam dollars with which te pay for
their impurts. The Report imsists that there exists intimate re-
latioms between the problems ef the world economy and the European
recovery plan.
Thoroughly convinced that our economic reconstructiom is mo
less imtimately related te the problems of the werld ecomomy, we
are immensely interested in the future of European recovery. It
is fer mo other reasom but this that we feel very grateful for,
and entertaim rather extravagant expectation from, the fact that
a Harshall Plam fer the Far East new cemmands the attention of
the geverament
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
COMFIDEETIAL (For Use of Department Omly)
Pago No. 7 to molosure Bo. 1
to Despatch No. 95 dated
Fobruary 13, 194s, frem
Tokyo, Japas, eatitled
"Commente Regarding the
Labor Situation in Japan".
-7-
the government and the poople of the United States. For the re-
construction of Japan, we firmly believe, will be on a sound and
werkable basis only when it is treated as an iategral part of she
Far Mastern version of the European Recovery Plan.
Our fimal plea is that the Allied mations will extend the
atmost assistance to our own efforts to reconstruct our economy.
We are fully aware of our obligations to do a great many things
ourselves befere asking for outside help. Humerous iastances there
have beem where we sincerely exerted ourselves to do se, and some
cases where we unfortunately failed in our endeavers.
Our failures are not easily traceable to a few simple causes.
Some may be due to the Japamese mentality; other probably attribut-
able to the loss of confidence in the government, borm of the
people's experience of having been sadly deceived by the milita-
rists. Whatever the reasons may be, the fact is that we have wit-
nessed mot a fow cases where no success came to really homest
efferts that the people and the tovernment made. On the other
hand, we have seen examples of similar endeavors coming readily
to fruition with some measures of Allied aid. ▲ case to the peint
is the general strike threatened for February 1, 1947, to which
one utterance by HQ was sufficient to put a stop. Another is the
monthly coal production of 3,000,000 tons accomplished whem QHQ
and local Gevermment Team officials visited the mines; whereas
no more than 2,500,000 tons celd have been mined before, despite
every effort made by the Japanese Government. Resolved as we are
always to do our part with no less seal than heretofore, we must
bespeak the assistance by the Allied Forces, the efficacy of which
has been amply proven in the examples just cited.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
COMYIITIAL (For Use of Department Oaly)
Éeslesure Ne. 2 te Be
No. 95 dated Pebrueny 18,
1948, from Tekye, Jagam,
entitled "Cemments Regarding
the Labor Sitmation ia Japam".
(TRANSLATION)
Jammary 30, 1948
Doed of Changinc Laber Pelier as the
Fundamental Preregnisite for
Boomomic Robabilitation of Japan
By
KITAOKA Juitsu
Former Chief of the Japanese Delegation
to the International Labour Organisation;
former professor of social policy at the
Tokyo Imperial University; and former
Chief of Labor Division of Economio
Stabilization Board.
I
Impertance of Labor in Japanese Economy
Japan is characterised by excessive population and poverty
of resources. She depends entirely or largely upon foreign
countries for the supply of such raw materials as cotton, woel,
iron ore, oil, fat, rubber, et cetera. Japan must also import
food and coal to some extent. Her dependence upon foreign countries
markedly increased after the war, because of the loss of overses
resources and a rise of population. Japan's export trade, indispen-
sable for the purchase of raw materials from abroad, depends upen
imported raw materials. The only asset for Japan to compete in
foreign marksts is her high labor efficiency in proportien to wages.
The best example is furaished by the cotton and other textile
industries. The raw silk industry - the only industry operated
with domestic material - is based upon industrious laber. Indeed,
labor may be called the only asset of Japan.
Productivity of labor, however, has been reduced to one-third
after the war. This is the principal cause of industrial decay in
this country.
II
Labor Lawe go too far, and are abused
by Labor Unions
l. The Labor Union Law, in Article ll, prohibits the employer with
penalty from dismissing or discriminating an employee because
of his or her being a union member or legitimate union activity.
This provision is interpreted by labor unioms in an unduly
broad sense. All employees, so long as they are union members
(practically all employees are labor union members), do not
obey work orders and violate work regulations. And yet the
employer cannot discharge them, however low their efficiency
ratings may be. Efficiency rule which is the absolute require-
ment in factory management cannot be carried out. The workers'
right of strike is guaranteed to the maximum degree, while the
employers' right of lockout or discharge is denied. This is
the principal cause of industrial paralysis.
2. Article 2 of the Labor Union Law provides that the penal ccde
does not
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
COMPIMTIAL (For Use of Department Only)
Page No. 2 to Emalesureo
2 to Despateh No. 95 dätéd
February 15, 1948, frem
Tokyo, Japan, entitled
"Comments Regarding the
Labor Situation in Japan".
-2-
does not apply to the workers for their legitimate activities
for attaining the purposes for which unions are established.
This provision is also interpreted in an unduly broad sease.
Net only are mass demonstrations staged and interviews with
directors forcibly requested by unions, but also violencs
and intimidation toward managing directors and their families
are publicly committed. And yet neither legal action mor
the right of discharge can be exercised. Interference of a
labor union with management is too great.
3. The staff members are also labor union members. This strengthens
labor unions all the more, and weakens the power of mamagement
proportionally. The labor union concludes a collective agreement
with management with a powerful organization behind. Deprived of
the powers of employmont, discharge and even of management by
labor unions, many industries became practically.paralysed.
4.
The labor umiom in Japan, which was given the right of unionisation
and strike unparalleledly high in the world without passing through
democratic training, has fallen into despotism exercised by a
minority group. As a large number of labor leaders are under
Communist influence, a large proportion ef labor unioas
(including unions of government workers and teachera) are under
Communist influence, in spite of the fact that union members are
citizens with common sense (as revealed by a small number of votes
cast for the Commumist Party).
The employer has no right of discharging the employees when they
resort to sympathy strikes. Neither has the government power to
stop such acts. This has placed the unions of public services,
such as coal, electricity, railways, communications, et cetera,
on the equal footing with the Diet and the government. Since
these unioms are being ruled by a small number of Communists, mo
political stability can be maintained even under a fres and
democratic government.
That the Labor Standards Law goes too far and labor administration
does not fit the actual conditions cannot be overlooked. The
crux of the question, however, lies in the Labor Union Law.
Unless this law is revised, it is considered impossible to check
inflation and rehabilitate the Japanese economy.
III
How to Revise Labor Union Lay
1. The labor union should be democratised and Commumist dictator
ship rejected. The revenues of labor unions should be reportad
to the goverment for publication, with a view to preventing
fereign funds from pouring into unions.
3. Discharge ef the workers should be made possible whenever
they violate the work regulations and when their efficiency
ratinge are teo low.
3. The right ef the employer should be recognised to discharge
the workers
COMFIDENTIAL

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.93)
COMYIDTIAL (Fer Use ef Department Oaly)
Page Lo. 3 to
2 to Bospatck Me.
Tokge, Japan, eatitled
"Gemmeats Regarding the
Laber Sitmatien in Japas".
-3-
the workers who join sympathy strikes. Such acts ef the wrkers
as violence, intimidation, libel cases, personal sttasks en
direstors, assaults upon the private residences of directing
officials, et cetera, should be made illegal.
5.
The government should be empowered to stop general strikes
in public utilities, such as railways, coal, electricity, et
cetera.
With respect te malicious labor movements led'by Cemmunists,
the goverament should be empowered to suppress the Cemsemists,
and the employer to dismiss a worker who acts with Cemmumist
conviction. This will bring about the same objectives as
revising the Labor Union Law.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDMSTIAL (Fer Us: ef Department Only)
Enclesare No. 3 to Despatch
Ne. 95 dated Jebrmary 15,
1948, frem Tekye, Japas,
entitled "Cemmeate Regarding
the Labor Situation in Japan".
(COPY)
MEMORANDUM RECEIVED ON THE CONTRACT OF
THE MITSUBISHI TOKYO BNGINEERING WORKS
December 1947
This Labor Contract was concluded in October, l946, after 40 days
strike. It should be mentioned that during the ceurse ef megotia-
tions in the strike period, the Hanager of the Personnel Department
of the Werks was violently attacked and injured on his way home by
radical elssekis of the Labor Umiom. It will be seen from this
Labor Agreemer: concluded under such pressure and violence, that
in every respect the freedom ef the Management side was greatly
restricted.
Indeed the original proposal of the Union to the Hanagement was even
mere severe in that it contaimed an article to the effect that the
Union reserved every freedom in all its actions. This provisiom,
however, was omitted after bargaiming. We earmestly hope for the
early arrival of an oppertunity to amend an Agreement suck as this
ene, which practically disregards the interests of the Mammgement
side.
Lmbor Contract
The Preparatory Committee ef the Zen Hippon Kiki Trade Uaion, en
behalf of the Tokyo Engimeering Works Labor Union of the Mitsubishi
Heavy-Imdustries, Limited, make this Contract with the Tokyo Eagi-
neering Works of Mitsubishi Heavy-Industries Limited in confermity
with the spirit of the Trade Uniom Law, Articles 1 and 2l. Hewever,
negotiations and decisions with the Works (Hitsubishi Heavy-Industries,
Limited) will be chiefly in charge of the delegates of the Works'
Labor Union.
Article l. The Tokyo Engineering Works recognises the Preparatory
Cemmittee of the Zen Hippon Kiki Trade Uniom and approved the Tokye
Enginsering Works Labor Union of the Mitsubishi Heavy-Industries,
Limited as the enly Trade Union (except the Employee's Trade Umion)
of the Woriks at the Shimo-Maruko Plant, and the Works shall epen
negotiations with the Union and have nothing to do with any other
organisation. However, the Tokyo Engineering Works Trade Union" aims
at combining with the Present Union in the mear future. Meamwhile,
the Tokyo Engineering Works Trade Uniom has cellective bargaining
rights so far as the Contract Article 1 is concerned during the inter-
mediate period of the actual existence of the Tokyo Eagineering Works
Trade Union's Convention. (The above Tokyo Engineering Merks Trade
Union was dissolved on January 27, 1947 and 1s at present nom-existent.)
Article 2. The system of a minimum wage is established, based on the
cest ef living, it being adjusted in accordance with the prices of com-
modities, and must be such as te stabilize the Unionists' living.
Article 3.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
Page No. 2 to malesare
CONPIMMTLAL (For Use ef Department Oaly)
Febraary 18, 1968, frem
Tokye, Japan, emtitled
Comments Regarding the
Laber Situatien in Japas".
- 2 -
Article 3. Working hours shall be eight, with a rest period of a
hour in primciple.
Article 4. Dmployment, discharge, change of personnel, rise in rank,
advance in wages, revards and penalties, shall mot be carried out
by the Company unilaterally.
Article 5. Unionists expelled from the Union must be discharged by
the Company.
Article 6. During the labor dispute, the Company shall mot make any
contract with other suppliers of labor to carry out work, amd shall
prohibit any such similar actions.
Article 7. In order to carry out the Labor Contract, a contract of
Mamagement-Labor Confereace shall be established, and such contract
must be cencluded separately.
Article 8. Matters decided at the Hanagement-Labor Conference, when
recegaised by both the Company and the Union, shall be put into effect
equally with this Contract.
Article 9. Lock-out, long closure of the Plant, change of mame and
transfer of land, buildings, oquipments, machimes, and properties,
are prohibited to be carried unilaterally by the Company, without
previous notice being given to the Union.
Article 10. The Union shall take part in the promotion of the Welfare
and management of the establishments shall only be carried out with
the Union's consent.
Article ll. Werker's regulations, system of allowances and other rules
in the Plant cam not be made mor revised or abolished unilaterally by
the Works, without the consent of the Union.
Article l2. The members of the Union have complete freedom of actien
regarding labor movements, and the Works shall not discrimimate against
then. In particular, the officials of the Works Union are free te
devote themselves to the Union's business. However, the mames of such
officials shall be communicated to the Works in advance.
Article l3. Members of the Werks Union are free to join any pelitical
party. If they should take public office, the Works can mot inter-
fere with them in the execution of such work.
Article 14. This Contract becomes effective as from October 2, 1946,
and shall remain in force for a period of six months. Hewever, even
during this period the Contract can be revised by mutual consent.
Article l5. This Contract can be extended automatically for a fur-
ther peried of six months if neither the Compamy mor the Union mani-
fest a wish to amend it before one month of the expiration of the
term. Upon expiratiom of the term, and if a desire is manifest to
change it, this Centract shall romain in force for six months befere
the new agreement is effected.
Article 16.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.92)
GOMYITLAL (For Use ef Departmest Caly)
s to Deageteh e
Pobraary 15, 10s8, 
"Gommente Rogarding the
Laber Situatien in Japas".
-3-
Artiele lß However, should the Cempany or the Union change their
mame or merge with others during the validity of this Contrast, this
Contract must remain in force.
This Contract is made out in triplicate, the Company and the
Uniom retaiming each one copy; the other to be submitted te the
Government.
MEMORAIDON
Having regard to the Labor Law, Article 2, the actual system com-
taimed therein may be restrained for some time until the establish-
ment of the syatem of minimum wages based on the actual cost of
living.
As to the Labor Law, Article 4. As a general principle, the Uaien
will not meddle in changes among the chief and heads of the Seetions.
However, the Company shall communicate any such changes previously
privately, and shall take into consideration the intentions of the
Union. However, it is understood that Article 4 applies to the per
sonnel belonging to the Works Union.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.93)
BAR 2 3 1948
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 151
Tokyo, March 9, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
DCIR
Subject: Transmitting Copy of Policy Statement Regarding Appli-
cation of Press Code to Newspaper Labor Relations.
xR
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose copy of
a press release dated 10:00 a.m., March 3, 1948, from the Public
894.911
894.504/3-948
Information Office, General Headquarters, Far East Command, concern-
ing the issuance of a policy statement by the Labor Division of
SCAP's Economic and Scientific Section regarding the application
E
0
of the Press Code to newspaper labor relations. It will be noted
N:OE
that this statement clarifies the application to the Japanese
FE
publishing field of the Press Code issued by General MacArthur
ILH
September 19, 1945. Headquarters officials, it is stated, hold
0IE
DR
editors or publishers responsible for the content of their publica-
tions and make it impossible to allow trade unions to bargain for
the right to influence the content of publications or to accomplish
this aim through dispute tactics.
CS/ V
Enclosure:
1949 MAR 17 AM 11 55
DEPARTMET OF STATE
06
Copyrof press release, GHQ,
FEC,CPIO, 10:00 a.m., March
2
3, 1948.
RECEIVED
2
18
23
16
894.
650.4
JWBurnett:cgf
AR 24 1948
FILHD
Original and ozalid to the Department.
3
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 151 dated
March 9, 1948 from Office of the United
States Political Adviser at Tokyo, om
the subject: "Tranamitting Copy of Poliey
Statement Regarding Application of Press
Code to Newspaper Labor Relations."
Source: GHQ, FEC, Public Information
Office, 1000, 3 March 1948.
Press Release:
APPLICATION OF PRESS CODE TO NEWSPAPER LABOR RELATIONS CLARIFIED
IN POLICY STATEMENT
Application of the Press Code to newspaper labor relations
was clarified today in a policy statement by the Labor Division
of SCAP's Economic and Scientific Section.
The statement makes these points:
1 - Stable and effective labor relations call for complete
acceptance by both employers and unions of the sole and complete
responsibility of management to determine editorial content in
the press and publication industries. If necessary, this clear
statement should be incorporated in all collective bargaining
agreements as soon as possible.
2 - Management has the right to take appropriate disciplinary
action against employees or union members in these industries who
attempt by use of force to determine in any way, directly or in-
directly, editorial policy or content, or who interfere with publi-
cation or distribution of printed matter.
3 - To prevent use of the Press Code by management as a pre-
taxt for discharge or other discrimination against employees, man-
agement should consult with the union before taking action. Cases
involving question of fact should be referred to an impartial arbi-
trator or third party.
4 - There is no intention of preventing or weakening existing
practices under which management-labor concurrence is needed in
discharging, disciplining, or rewarding employees not involved in
these specific issues, or of interfering with restrictions against
discriminatory discharges as set forth in Article ll of the Trade
Union Law.
A Labor Division official said the statement, drawn up in con-
sultation with Civil Information and Education Section officials,
incorporates an interpretation of the Press Code as given by Lt.
Col. Donald R. Nugent, CI&E chief, on June 13, 1946.
Colonel Nugent declared at that time that freedom of the press
included the right to present news and editorial opinion free from
influence, domination, or any other form of control by any govern-
ment agency, political party, employers' association, employees'
association, labor union or any other pressure group.
"SCAP officials hold editors or publishers responsible for the
content of their publications, making it impossible to allow trade
unions to bargain for the right to influence content of a publi-
cation, or to accomplish the same aim through dispute tactics," a
Labor Division official said.
He

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's No. 151,
March 3, 1948.
-2 -
He recommended that disputes arising over Article Two of the
master contract for newspapers, which requires union consent to
discharge, transfer or demotion of personnel, be referred to local
labor relations committees.
"Committees should make their decisions within the meaning
and intent of the Press Code," the official said, adding that
questions on violation of the code itself must be determined by
occupation authorities.
cgf

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
WWB
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
niturrt
FOR JAPAN
NA
Tokyo, March 25, 1948
PERSONAL and CONF IDENTIAL
Dear John:
As you are probably aware, the labor situation in Japan appears
to be in a chaotic condition. without attempting to go into the
underlying reasons for the present situation, suffice it to say that
one of the contributory causes is undoubtedly the policy which has
been pursued by the SCAP Labor Section, particularly during the first
year of the Occupation. As a result, we are now faced with a series
of "quickie" strikes on the part of a large number of Government
labor unions, a situation which might very well eventually get out
of hand and once again call for strong action on the part of General
MacArthur. It is barely possible, of course, that the present
894.504/
Cabinet will be able to control the recalcitrant unions, but as a
long-range proposition I can only foresee continued trouble.
In my opinion, the labor situation in Japan is closely allied
with the political situation; in fact, the latter can largely be a
result of labor's attitude towards any government which might be in
office. What might happen if the Occupation control should suddenly
be relaxed is anybody's guess although I believe with proper handling
and advice the situation is not beyond salvage.
As a result of the above, I consider it highly desirable that
the Department consider the possibility of assigning a Labor Attachè
to this Mission. The individual who is chosen should necessarily be
3
one who has the confidence of the Department, the Department of Labor,
as well as the CIO and AFL. I might say that the Labor Attachè need
not necessarily have had previous Japanese experience; in fact, he
2548
might be more valuable if he has never been in Japan.
For your information, I have not yet cleared this idea with any
one in Headquarters but Maynard will approach General Marquat with
the idea of having a labor man come out under the auspices of the
Department "with a view to making an objective study of the labor
situation". It is my idea thet the present people in the Labor
Division are so strongly entrenched and so sensitive of their position
that a frontal attack would hardly do. Once the Labor Attachè were
here, however, I think it would not be difficult to have him continue
his assignment indefinitely.
I suggest
John M. Allison, Esquire,
Chief, Division of Northeast Asian Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington 25, D.C.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.93)
- 2 -
I suggest that no definite assignment be made until I have had
an opportunity to lay the groundwork here and until I send an
official request to the Department (I will see that you get an advance
copy of such request). In the meantime, you may wish to set the
search for the right individual in motion, as presumably it will take
some time to find just the proper man.
Sincerely yours,
Rll
W. J. Sebald

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
A
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: May 21 1948
SUBJECT:
. Means of Obtaining Information on Japanese Labor Developments.
PARTICIPANTS: Ir. Paul Stonchfiell, Iabor Division, SCAP
Ma. Brat ford Coolidge, DRF
M
COPIES TO:
MA, Mr. John Allison
HA, P. Mershall Creen
II, Mr. Philip Sulliven
DRF, Mr. Chaales C. Stelle
1-1493
Ib. Stanchfield, who has been conferring on Japanese labor developments with
interested ecencies duriny his temporcry duty in Washincton, edvanced three
succestions as to meang of obtainine needed information.
A. Pointing out that the Labor Division has a creat deal of detailed
material that is not usually reported through existing channels, he sugcested
that DRF write informally and as frequently es necessery to the Labor Division
for help in specific metters. Mr. Stenchfield felt that, although the Iabor
Division is extremely busy, both Mr. James Killen, its chief, and its members
would meke every effort to enswer such requests.
In addition, Ib. Stenchrield succested that we endeavor to set up a
formel chennel, either through Us PoLAD, Tolyo, or through the Department of
the Army, by means of vhich the Lebor Division micht veport regularly on such
stand inc cuestiona es we micht pose.
B. Mr. Stenchfield stated that he woull be happy to promote an invitation
from the Labor Division to a nember of DRF to come to Japen (State paying salary,
Anmy paying transportation end per diem) in order to secure information end to
make studies, if end when such an invitetion were informally requested.
C. Iir. Stanchfield indicated his own interest in assuming the position
of Labor Atteche to the State Department mission in Japen, if and when this
post were created.
(In this connection
RESTRICTED

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
2
(In this connection, Mr. Philip Sullivan of IIH edvises that IIH
once had funds available for a labor attache in Japan, but that plans
to inaugurate this post were abandoned in view of ScAp opposition.
Mr. Sullivan cdds that Iir. Stanchfield mentioned to him the fact that the
British mission in Tokyo at present has a labor attache who participates
as en observer in the Labor Division's staff meetings, has access to
most of its materials, ond makes tours of observation. The British
attache is not authorized to confer with Japanese labor leaders, nor is
he invited to participate in Labor Division necotiations with Japanese
union leaders end employers on touchy issues. Mr. Stenchfield has been
asked by In to prepare & memorandum on the functions of the British
labor attache.)
onh
BC
DRF:JIJumen(3Coolide):BF
RESTRICTED

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT HSE ONLY
No. 92
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Yokohama Branch
Office of the U. S. Politid
fiser
Yokohama, Japan, R A
SEP61948
Subject: Labor Agreements of Yokohama Shipyard and
DCIR
Engine Works, and Table of WanEANB OF STATE
THE HONORABLE
894.605.2048
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
FE
WASHINGTON.
xn
SIR:
844.504
I have the honor to refer to my despatch no. 91 of
May 20, 1948, entitled "Liemoranda by President of
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd., on Financial, Labor,
and Industrial Problems", and to enclose for the
Department's information only, copies of the English
translations of the agreements signed on November 1
1947, by the Yokohama Shipyard and Engine Works of that
ION
comoany with the salaried employees' union of the firm,
and the All-Japan Shipbuilding Workers' Union,
CPIES
respectively.
TUI
/5#2548
There are also enclosed tables showing the average
wages actually paid by that firm during the month of
February 1948 to managerial and office personnel, and
to shipyard workmen.
Respectfully yours,
Hadelir n
U. Alexis Johnson
American Consul/General
HJN
C2
A/AP
(1)
C)L
Olas made as
SEF 22 1948
850.4
FILED
U. A. Johnson:sf
Original and hectograph to the Department
Copy to Tokyo
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIA L
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 92, May 25, 1948, from
Yokohama.
YOKOHAMA SHIP YARD & ENGINE WORKS
HITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES, LTD.
3 Midoricho, Nishiku, Yokohama, Japan
LABOR AGREEMENT
November 1, 1947
The Yokohama Shipyard & Engine Works, Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (hereafter referred to as "the Company") and
the Salarymen's Union of the Mitsubishi Yokohama Shipyard
(hereafter referred to as "the Union"), have concluded this
Agreement with the ain of contributing to company's interest
by improving labor status together with the maintenance and
furtherance of efficiency with mutual understanding and
close cooperation between both parties, thereby promoting
national economy to wit:
Art. 1. T
The Company shall recognize the Union as a sole
independent society of salaryment in the Company
and shall carry on no negotiations outside of the
Union.
Art. 2.
Those being usually employed by the Company shall
necessarily be the members of the Union, provided
that those who fall under the provision of No. 1,
Art. 2 of the Labor Union Law and those who are
permitted by both the Company and the Union shall
not be included.
Art. 3.
The Company, conferring with the Branch, shall
establish a minimum wage system based upon the
living cost of the members of the Union conforming
to the fluctuation of prices.
Art. 4.
The following matters shall be negotiated and
decided at the Hanagement Council (hereafter referred
to as "the Council") composed of members repre-
senting the Company and the Union.
1. Matters as to the system of the Company.
2.
Basic matters of personal affairs such as
employment, discharge, appointment, promotion,
transfer of post, or revard and punishment.
3.
Matters of working condition such as payment,
allowances and wages, working time, and
holiday.
4.
Administrative matters of labor, materials,
technique, etc. in the course of production.
5.
Matters of culture and welfare such as educa-
tion, public welfare, health, fire prevention,
etc.
6.
Amendments of this Agreement.
7.
Other matters which the Company or the Union
deems necessary to negotiate.
Rules
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1,
CONFIDENTIAL
Despatch No. 92
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Yokohama, May 25, 1948.
-2-
Rules of the Council shall be fixed separately
under the joint deliberation of the Company and the
Union.
Art. 5.
The Company shall after management data necessary
to the Union, provided that the latter shall not
divulge any secret matter.
Art. 6.
The Company shall negotiate with the Union on
important administrative matters such as dissolu-
tion, suspension of operation, amalgamation, separa-
tion, change of title, transference or diversion
of the Company's assets, etc.
Art. 7.
In case that there should be any dispute between
the Company and the Union, it shall, by mutual
understanding, be brought to the Labor Committee
under the Labor Union Law for conciliation or
arbitration.
In the above case, should the Labor Board
conciliate or arbitrate, the Company or the Union
shall not start such measures as closing of shops,
general strikes, etc.
Art. 8.
The Company and the Union shall strictly abide by
the provisions of this Agreement and the matters
decided by the Management Council under Art. 4 of
this agreement.
Art. 9.
This Agreement shall remain in force for one (1)
year from the day of Agreement.
Art. 10.
In case of the establishment of second company,
this present Agreement shall remain in effect.
To verify the authenticity of the above Agreement three
copies have been compiled as follows for the
1. Company
2. Union
Japanese Government
By
T. Rinoiye
Gr. Mgr.
Yokohama Shipyard & Engine Works
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd.
By
K. Yokoo
President
The Salarymen's Union
Mitsubishi Yokohama Shipyard
TK7KS
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 92, May 25, 1948, from
Yokohama.
YOKOHAMA SHIPYARD & ENGINE WORKS
MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES, LTD.
3 Midoricho, Nishiku, Yokohama, Japan
REGULATIONS OF MANAGEMENT COUNCIL
YOKOHAILA SHIPYARD & ENGINE WORKS
MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES, LTD.
Art. 1.
In accordance with the provision of Article 4 of
the labor agreement which has been concluded
between the Yokohama Shipyard & Engine Works,
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (hereafter
referred to as "the Company") and the Salarymen's
Union of Mitsubishi Yokohama Shipyard (hereafter
referred to as "the Union") on November 1, 1947, a
Management Council shall be established.
Art. 2.
This Council shall confer to decide on the follow-
ing matters:
1. Matters as to the system of the company.
2.
Basic matters of personal affairs such as
employment, discharge, anpointment, promotion,
transfer of post or reward and punishment.
3.
Matters of working condition such as payment,
allowances and wages, working time, and
holiday.
4.
Administrative matters of labor, materials,
technique, etc. in the course of production.
5.
Matters of culture and welfare such as educa-
tion, public welfare, health, fire prevention,
etc.
6. Matters concerning dissolution, suspension of
operation, amalgamation, separation, change of
ownership and transference or division of the
company's assets, etc.
7. Amendment of this Agreement.
Other matters which the Company and the Union
deem necessary to confer with.
Art. 3.
The matters agreed on by the Council shall have
the same effect as the labor Agreement.
Art. 4.
The Council shall be composed of eighteen (18)
members, with nine (9) members representing the
Company and nine (9) members representing the
Union.
Art. 5.
The members who represent the Company shall be
appointed by the General Manager of the Company.
The members who represent the Union shall be
elected from among employees having membership in
the Union.
Art. 6.
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2,
CONFIDENTIAL
Despatch No. 92
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Yokohama, May 25, 1948.
-2-
Art. 6.
The Council shall have some secretaries who are to
conduct the business of the Council.
The secretaries shall be elected from both the
Company and the Union.
Art. 7.
The Council shall hold an Ordinary Meeting once a
month.
An Extraordinary lieeting shall be held when
necessary upon the proposal of either the Company
or the Union.
Art. 8.
The Council shall be convoked at the latest upon a
three-day notice of its agenda to its members;
however, provided that this rule shall not apply
in case of emergency.
Art. 9.
Without the consent of both the Company and the
Union the Council c annot convene.
Art. 10.
A chairman shall preside at the meeting of the
Council to manage the procedure of the meeting.
Art. 11.
The chairman shall be elected from among the
members of the Council. As to his appointment,
the agreement of both the Company and the Union
shall be required on the Ordinary Meeting; how-
ever, in case of an Extraordinary Meeting, the
chairman of the non-proposing party shall preside.
Art. 12.
The decision of the meeting shall be made by a
majority vote.
In case of a tie, a revote shall be cast.
Art. 13.
When a special investigation is necessary of
certain questions of the Council, a Special
Committee may be appointed to make the investiga-
tion.
Art. 14.
The details of the Special Meeting shall be fixed
in accordance vith the occasion.
Art. 15.
When necessary, the Council shall be able to
convene a joint meeting of vorkers and office
clerks through the negotiation of the Company and
the Union, provided that the vote shall be taken
of cach meeting separately.
Art. 16.
The matters discussed at the Council Heeting shall
be strictly confidential
Art. 17.
The minutes of the meetings of the Council shall
be recorded by the secretary.
Two copies shall be made of questions decided
upon with the signatures and seals of the repre-
sentatives of both parties and a copy is kept in
file by each party.
SUPPLEIENTARY REGULATIONS
Art. 18.
The revision of the above regulations shall be
enacted by the negotiation of the Council.
Art. 19.
The above regulations are effective as of November
1, 1947.
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEDARUMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 92, May 25, 1948, from
Yokohama.
YOKOHAMA SHIPYARD & ENGINE WORKS
MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES, LTD.
3 Hidoricho, Nishiku, Yokohama, Japan
LABOR AGREEIENT
November 1, 1947
The Yokohana Shipyard & Engine Morks, Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (hereafter referred to as "the Company") and
All Japan Shipbuilding Workers' Union, the Mitsubishi Branch
have come to conclude the folloving Labor Agreement:
FUNDALMENTAL AGREEIENT:
Art. 1.
The Company shall recognize the All Japan Ship-
building Vorkers' Union and the Branch as an
autonomous society in the Company and shall carry
on all negotiations only with the Branch or the
said Union.
Art. 2.
The Company shall be able to employ a non-union
member only upon the recognition of the Branch.
VAGES:
Art. 3.
The Company, conferring with the Branch, shall
establish a minimum wage system based upon the
living ∞ st of the menbers of the Branch and their
families conforming to the fluctuation of prices.
Art. 4.
The Company shall enact amendment on wages and
allowances upon negotiation with the Branch.
WORKING HOURS:
Art. 5.
The standard of working hours shall be eight (8)
hours, with seven (7) actual working hours per
day.
Art. 6.
Whenever a work requires overtime or off day work
the Company shall negotiate with the Branch.
HOLIDAYS AND LEAVES OF ABSENCE:
Art. 7. Holidays and Leave of Absence shall be to wit:
1. Holidays
a) Sundays
b) National Holidays
2. Leave with Pay
a) Annual Leave (with pay)
For both men and women a leave of fourteen
(14) days will be granted per year (a
calendar
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3,
CONFIDINTIAL
Despatch No. 92
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Yokohama, M ay 25, 1948.
-2-
calendar year) and will be paid 100 percent
of their average wages for each day.
To those in continuous service from nine
(9) years and above, one (1) day shall be
added per year, but shall not exceed twenty
(20) days in total.
In the calculation of the year of contin-
uous service, the year of employment shall
be regarded as one (1) year.
Leave shall be as follows for those who
were employed by the company this year.
1) Employed prior to May 31st
........ Seven (7) days
2) Employed prior to Nov: 30th
. Five (5) days
Left over leaves with pay for this year
will be carried over to the next year, and
will be effective therein. However it will
be void the third year. For those having
left over leaves at the end of next year
100 percent of their average wages will be
paid per day.
b) Year End and New Year Leaves.
It will be from December 31 to January 3 of
the next year with pay.
c) May Day (May 1)
Employees shall be relieved from duty on
May Day, and three days wages will be paid.
d) Monthly Leave of Absence.
Female workers may have monthly leave of
absence whenever necessary upon the follow-
ing standard:
1) Muscular workers: Entitled to three (3)
days for each case--and shall be paid
their daily wages for each day.
2) Other workers: Entitled to two (2) days
for each case--and shall be paid their
daily wages for cach day. lowever
whenever nature requires, a three-day
leave of absence will be granted if
requested.
e) Transfer or Change of Post.
In case of transfer or change in post, a
bachelor shall be given one day, a family
head three days leave of absence with 60
percent of their average pay per day.
f) Food
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3,
CONFIDENTIAL
Despatch No. 92
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Yokohama, May 25, 1948.
-3-
f) Food Procuration.
In case of ration distribution is delayed
over ten days, two days leave of absence
shall be given per month with pay 60 percent
of average wage per day.
g) Marriage.
Workers shall be relieved of duty for four
(4) days in the case of marriage, and they
shall be paid at the rate of 6o percent of
average wage per day.
h) Mourning.
The following leave of absence shall be
granted with daily pay in each case:
1) For parents, consorts, and children--
under seven'(7) days.
2) For brothers, sisters, or grandfathers
and grandmothers related by blood, or
parents of the consorts--under three (3)
days.
i) Before and After Childbirth.
Female workers shall have leave of absence
for six (6) weeks each before and after
childbirth. Upon request a pregnant female
worker will be transferred to a lighter
work.
Art. 8.
Employees shall be paid allowance for suspension
of work at the rate of 60 percent of average wage
in the following cases:
hen the conpany suspends work due to the lack
of work, shortage of materials or electricity,
etc.
2.
When transportation or communication is un-
available due to accidents and forbids employees
to report to work.
3。
When the company forbids employees to work due
to their condition of health.
4.
When shops ∞uld not be operated by the cur-
tailment of electricity.
5.
In the course of weather or nature of work
calls for an untinely attendance or dismissal
the di ference shall be covered by the above
allowance.
INJURY AND SICKNESS WIILE OH DUTY
Art. 9.
In case a member of the Branch has been injured or
taken sick due on duty the Company shall pay the
while expenses for medical treatment and 100
percent of his daily wage.
If the
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3,
CONFIDENTIAL
Despatch No. 92
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Yokohama, May 25, 1948.
-4-
If the allowance is paid through the Workers'
Accident Insurance Law the Company shall pay the
balance.
In case that his total revenue of that month
should exceed that of the ordinary working month
by the treatment allowance, the exceeding amount
shall be deducted.
Art. 10.
The Company shall hold periodically medical exa-
minations for the members of the Branch and as a
result, shall take necessary steps as to changing
then to lighter work, shortening their working hours
or granting them adequate recreation, etc.
LMPLOYIEHT AHD DISCHARGE:
Art. 11.
The Company shall employ or discharge employees
through negotiation with the Branch.
Art. 12.
The Company shall, through negotiation with the
Branch, discharge the person expelled from the
Branch.
Art. 13.
In case of promotion, appointment, transfer of
post, or revard and punishment of the members of
the Branch, the Company shall negotiate with the
Branch.
Art. 14.
In case of revision or amendment of any regula-
tions and systems and Company shall enact it upon
negotiation with the Branch.
Art. 15.
Regarding extra hour work, the start and finish of
work, recess, holidays, or leaves for greetings
and condolences which are beyond the description
of this Agreement, the Company shall negotiate
with the Branch before enactment.
PRODUCTION:
Art. 16.
In case of contracting work to sub-contractors or
ordering articles to be manufactured outside, the
Company shall negotiate with the Branch before doing
so.
Art. 17.
Regarding administrative matters of labor, mate-
rials, engineering, in the course of production,
the company shall negotiate with the Branch before
enactment.
WELFARE:
Art. 18.
The Company shall negotiate with the Branch before
enactment of matters on culture and education
promotion together with the management of welfare
racilities.
MANAGEMENT COUNCIL:
Art. 19.
The Company shall establish a Management Council
composed of members representing the Company and
the Branch, which will make every effort in the
democratization of management.
At the
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
.Enclosure No. 3,
CONFIDENTIAL
Despatch No. 92,
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Yokohama, May 25, 1948.
-5-
At the Council, the agenda of discussion shall
be of Art, 3, 4, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
20, and 26 of this Agreement.
The Rules of Management Council shall be fixed
upon negotiations between the Company and the
Branch.
Art. 20.
The matters which are deemed to be necessary to
confer upon by both the Company and the Branch and
matters regarding amendment of this agreement
shall be conferred between the Company and the
Branch.
UNION ACTIVITIES:
Art. 21.
The Company shall agree to have the Branch officers
devote themselves exclusively to union business.
Art. 22.
The Company shall agree to the Branch contacting
with or acting in concert with any friendly party
or other outer parties, or partaking in any other
activity.
Art. 23.
The Company shall agree to have the Branch, with
the understanding of the Company, to hold union
activities or education for the members of the
Branch, at a specific time during working hours.
Art. 24.
The Company shall offer management data necessary
to the  ranch.
Art. 25.
The Company shall allow union members freedom of
political advities--and of occupying any public
post, and shall not discriminate these members.
However as to their treatment the Company shall
negotiate with the Branch.
DISSOLUTION OF THE COMPANY:
Art. 26. The Company shall negotiate with the Branch on
measures that will greatly affect the members of
the Branch such as dissolution, suspension of
operation, amalgamation, separation, change of
ownership and transference or diversion of the
Company's assets.
Art. 27.
During a strike the Company shall not contract
labor service or any similar acts with others
concerned.
Art. 28.
The Company shall collect rent from employees who
board in the Company's housing and workers dormi-
tory; the rent fixed separately from their wages.
TERIM OF VALIDITY:
Art. 29. This Agreement is to remain in force for one (1)
year from Nov. 1, 1947.
However during the term of validity, the Agreement
can be revised by the mutual understanding of both
parties.
Art. 30
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 34 === (confidence 1.00)
Enelosure No. 3,
CONFIDENTIAL
Despatch No. 92
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Yokohama, May 25, 1948.
-6-
Art. 30. Upon termination of this Agreement, should there
be no manifestation of intention for the revision
or the abolition from either party, the Agreement
shall automatically be valid for another six (6)
months.
This Agreement, in spite of termination or
manifestation of reyision shall stand valid till a
new one comes into being.
By
T. Rinoiye
General Manager
Yokohama Shipyard & Engine Works
Hitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd.
By
T. Kida
President
Mitsubishi Yokohama Shipyard Branch
All Japan ShipbuildingWorkers' Union
TK/KS
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Enclosure No. 4, Despatch No. 92, May 25, 1948, from Yokohama.
YOKOHAMA SHIPYARD & ENGINE WORKS
MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES, LTD.
3 Midoricho, Nishiku, Yokohama, Japan
REGULATIONS OF MANAGEIENT COUNCIL
YOKOHAMA SHIPYARD & ENGINE LORKS
MITSUBISHI HEAVY IIDUSTRIES, LTD.
Art. 1. In accordance with the provision of Article 19 of
the Labor Agreement which has been concluded
between the Yokohama Shipyard & Engine Works
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (hereafter
referred to as "the Company") and the All Japan
Shipbuilding Workers' Union, Mitsubishi Yokohama
Shipyard Branch (hereafter referred to as "the
Branch") on November 1, 1947, a Hanagement Council
shall be established.
Art. 2.
This Council shall confer to decide on the follow-
ing matters:
1. Conditions of treatment such as wages, premium
rates, allowances, raises, the payment for over-
time, night and holiday work; time and means of
payment, working hours, time to start and
finish work, recess and its arrangement,
number of holidays and leaves, discharge
allowance, etc.
2.
Basic matters regarding discharge, employment,
time and qualification of raise and promotion,
transference of post and reward and punishment.
3.
Arrangement of labor, utilization of materials,
management of technique etc. in the process of
production.
4.
Basic matters regarding sub-contract and works
to be manufactured outside.
5.
The revision or abolition of any regulation
and work system.
6.
atters of culture and welfare such as indivi-
dual culture, education, public welfare,
health, fire prevention, etc.
7.
Matters concerning dissolution, suspension of
operation, amalgamation, separation, change of
oimership and transference or division of the
Company's assets, etc.
δ.
Amendment of this Agreement.
9.
Other matters which the Company and the Branch
deem necessary to confer with.
Art. 3.
The matters agreed on by the Council shall have
the same effect as the Labor Agreement.
Art. 4.
The Council shall be composed of eighteen (18)
members, with nine (9) members representing the
Company and nine (9) members representing the
Branch.
Art
CONEIDENTIAL

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4,
CONFIDENTIAL
Deapatch No. 92
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Yokohama, May 25, 1948.
-2-
Art. 5. The members who represent the Company shall be-
appointed by the General lianager of the Company.
The members who represent the Branch shall be
elected from among employees having membership in
the Branch.
Art. 6.
The Council shall have some secretaries who are to
conduct the business of the Council.
The secretaries shall be elected from both the
Company and the Branch.
Art. 7. The Council shall hold an Ordinary Meeting onge a
nonth.
An Extraordinary Heeting shall be held when
necessary upon the proposal of either the Company
or the Branch.
Art. 8.
The Council shall be convoked at the latest upón a
three-day notice of its agents to its nembers;
however, provided that this rule shall not apply
in case of emergency.
Art. 9.
Without the consent of both the Company and the
Branch the Council camot convene.
Art. 10.
A chairman shall preside at the mecting of the
Council to nanare the procedure of the meeting.
Art. 11.
The Chairman shall be elected from among the
members of the Council. As to his appointment,
the agreement of both the company and the Branch
shall be required on the Crdinary Meeting; however
in case of an Extraordinary Meeting, the chairman
of the non-proposing party shall preside.
Art. 12.
The decisions of the meeting shall be made by a
majority vote.
In case of a tie, a revote shall be case.
Art. 13.
When a special investigation is necessary on
certain questions of the Council, a Special
Committee may be appo nted to make the investigation.
Art. 14.
The details of the Special Heeting shall be fixed in
accordance vith the occasion.
Art. 15.
When necessary, the Council shall be able to
convene a joint meeting of workers and office
clerks through the negotiation of the Company and
the Branch, provided that the vote shall be taken
of each meeting separately.
Art. 16.
The matters discussed at the Council Meeting shall
be strictly confidential.
Art. 17.
The minutes of the meetings of the Council shall
be recorded by the Secretary.
Two copies shall be made of questions decided
upon with the signatures and seals of the repre-
sentatives of both parties and a copy is kept in
file by each party.
SUPPLEMENTARY
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4,
CONFIDENTIAL
Despatch o. 92
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Yokohama, i4ay 25, 1948.
-3-
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
Art. 18. The revision of the above regulations shall be
enacted by the negotiation of the Council.
Art. 19.
The above regulations are effective as of November
1, 1947.
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Enclosure No. 5, Despatch No. 92, May 25, 1948, from
Yokohama.
MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES, LIMITED
Yokohama Shipyard & Engine Works
WAGE RETES
FOR CLERKS
Position
Hourly Wage
Average Salary
for February
Department Manager
¥39.88
￥7,671.60
Section Manager
38.52
6,627.46
Clerk (Male)
31.47
5,358.49
Clerk (Female)
22.12
3,413.89
Averages
¥29.72
¥5,007.88
Note: Officials above Division Manager excluded.
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 6,
CONFI_ENTIAL
Despatch No. 92,
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Yokohama, May 25, 1943.
ITSUBIS I .EAVY INDUSTRIES, LL ITED
Yokchama Shipyard & Engine Norks
AVERAGE HOURLY AGES AND LONTHLY AG.S OR L.DORRS--FEBRUARY 1948
lst Class
2nd Class
3rd Class
4th Class
Apprentice
Total Workers
Classification
Hourly
.onthly
Hourly
Konthly
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Wages
Wages
Wages
nages
Nages
Nages
"ages
Nages
Nages
Wages
Wages
Wages
至
至
¥
¥
¥
Recorder
29.99
5,610.43
27.91
5,731.73
25.03
5,098.85
24.16
4,888.76
25.69
5,195.51
Substitute
23.80
7,069.98
27.27
6,079.98
30.00
5,627.64
23.22
4,966.61
25.94
5,595.20
Material Handler
29.03
5,540.47
27.40
5,139.29
25.00
4,597.39
22.01
3,314.59
24.95
4,537.13
Truck Transporter
25.63
4,639.69
23.78
5,402.72
26.51
4,860.00
22.43
3,950.90
17.07
2,508.97
24.33
4,375.64
Saw Mill Worker
32.04
6,874.36
32.49
6,361.60
28.69
5,783.00
23.91
4,572.89
26.90
5,204.95
Construction
29.64
5,387.77
27.75
5,083.51
30.63
4,855.83
22.64
3,906.25
15.66
2,448.10
23.16
3,964.25
Cook
25.40
6,869.97
24.23
5,950.54
20.13
5,258.32
21.78
5,508.14
Medics
27.70
5,352.80
27.20
5,579.66
22.82
5,159.73
24.66
5,272.08
16.61
5,124.83
16.61
5,124.83
Guard
Inspector
31.06
6,216.88
29.49
5,671.20
26.63
5,195.77
25.76
4,551.26
29.02
5,653.18
Power Man
31.72
3,104.76
30.21
7,132.04
28.09
6,342.35
21.44
5,161.69
25.72
6,053.94
Tracer
33.41
5,713.59
27.96
5,318.62
25.25
4,645.37
20.29
4,036.74
14.69
2,599.84
20.54
3,831.89
Fitter
32.25
6,301.28
29.96
5,671.74
26.59
4,906.03
24.70
.4,178.00
14.38
2,446.24
26.614,818.68
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 6,
CONFIDENTIAL
Despatch No. 92,
FOR DEPARTMENT USE
ONLY
Yokohama, May 25, 1948.
-2-
lst Class
2nd Class
3rd Class
4th Class
Apprentice
Total Workers
Classification
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Wages
Wages
Wages
Wages
Wages
Wages
Wages
Wages
Wages
Wages
Wages
Wages
¥
基
Transporter
31.63
6,722.08
29.02
5,938.83
26.29
5,413.58
22.43
4,842.57
24.82
5,275.68
Moulder
30.52
6,412.75
26.99
5,779.94
24.00
4,743.74
25.20
4,300.54
14.63
2,461.54
23.89
4,622.43
Welder
30.87
6,043.09
23.04
5,608.37
25.73
4,840.88
23.74
4,241.47
14.87
2,527.68
25.14
4,688.94
Riveter
32.00
6,158.42
30.02
5,421.43
29.05
5,222.24
26.30
4,835.55
14.04
2,611.97
27.71
5,094.35
Caulker
33.26
5,832.25
29.21
5,290.41
28.45
4,577.36
22.79
3,855.28
15.32
2,582.13
26.03
4,433.26
Iron Worker
30.72
5,944.54
23.74
5,382.73
26.78
4,604.69
23.44
4,035.40
16.39
2,467.19
25.46
4,515.08
Bending Slab Worker
31.46
6,491.95
29.02
5,310.01
23.73
4,601.55
24.64
3,736.27
15.54
2,516.84
25.67
4,608.39
Out Fitter
32.03
6,020.92
28.45
6,014.32
25.36
5,121.72
22.78
4,278.41
15.41
2,417.75
24.72
4,817.45.
Carpenter
34.37
7,410.35
31.65
7,016.62
26.40
5,648.99
22.47
4,474.62
14.02
2,537.69
23.72
4,797.10
Foundry Worker
33.13
6,877.89
34.08
6,407.71
27.09
5,454.70
24.00
4,602.09
15.48
2,536.56
26.03
5,098.38
Blacksmith
31.77
5,637.15
30.27
5,510.92
26.98
4,707.21
22.74
3,792.96
15.47
2,464.03
25.72
4,406.09
Model Worker
37.06
6,852.60
29.31
5,915.06
25.70
5,174.43
21.48
3,872.39
14.06
2,484.31
23.63
4,448.32
Lathe Worker
32.73
7,590.72
29.96
6,542.20
25.20
5,099.93
21.53
3,990.94
18.41
2,056.65
23.55
4,426.67
Processer
34.45
5,856.58
29.37
5,640.44
25.52
4,808.02
21.88
4,075.84
24.93
4,619.77
Fitter
31.45
7,352.52
29.35
6.411.46
25.26
5,257.53
22.11
4,282.51
14.59
2,458.58
23.86
4,777.76
Boiler Man
34.00
7,305.01
29.77
6,061.11
26.54
5,382.01
22.85
4,575.23
14.12
2,440..63
25.46
5,053.05
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 6,
CONFIDENTIAL
Despatch No. 92,
FOR DEPARTMENT
USE ONLY
Yokohama, May 25, 1948.
-3-
lst Class
2nd Class
3rd Class
4th Class
Apprentice
Total Workers
Classification
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Hourly
Monthly
Wages
Wages
Wages
Wages
Wages
Hages
Wages
Wages
Wages
Wages
Weges
Wages
¥
Tool Shop Worker
32.03
5,998.06
28.78
5,563.23
24.87
4,636.03
22.61
4,016.25
15.76
2,506.18
23.78
4,288.10
Power Electrician
33,88
7,559.82
29.49
6,116.79
29.49
5,820.44
24.07
4,812.98
14.30
2,467.45
25.42
5,062.54
Wiring Electrician
31.05
6,336.40
28.77
5,629.91
25.36
4,962.35
22.64
4,225.05
16.07
2,536.91
24.97
4,790.22
Testing Lab. Worker
30.51
5,552.31
26.94
5,391.40
24.32
4,599.89
22.20
3,923.35
14.55
2,485.09
22.73
4,131.93
Steel Worker
32.53
5,748.28
30.38
5,476.04
28.06
4,755.57
22.62
3,900.27
15.12
2,334.99
24.98
4,293.43
Shipbuilding Worker
34.52
7,172.32
32.69
6,324.66
28.18
5,892.74
23.21
4,448.03
14.96
2,462.30
25.12
4,847.29
Ship Tool Worker
31.73
6,097.32
30.58
5,772.13
27.98
5,274.45
21.92
3,987.36
15.98
2,668.65
24.86
4,519.36
Repair Div. Fitter
35.04
5,957.74
28.40
5,421.65
25.14
4,572.36
22.09
5,933.55
15.29
2,485.94
24.04
4,325.84
Outside Worker
33.00
6,193.15
30.53
5,495.22
27.73
5,037.48
24.98
4,266.53
14.94
2,519.20
27.00
4,761.64
Coppersmith
32.07
7,111.53
29.27
6,252.18
27.28
5,446.92
22.07
4,367.15
14.17
2,397.04
24.66
4,968.41
Dock Worker
30.34
6,937.48
29.11
6,054.69
26.32
5,801.36
22.81
4,321.45
25.35
5,153.68
Crew
27.57
7,002.19
23.71
6,006.86
20.35
4,845.41
21.57
5,237.57
Rigger
30.42
6,333.00
28.75
6,115.81
26.57
5,337.93
23.34
4,804.11
25.16
5,195.61
18.41
3.889724
Female Worker (Misc.)
Averages
31.91
6,420.19
29.23
5.861.94
26.12
5.128.03
22.50
4.303.43
15.00
2.499.63
24.35
4.948.01
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
0 - 1845
ANDARD PORM NO. 64
TO
O - Mr. Claxton
DATE: July 13, 1948
FROM :
O - Mr. Ray
SUBJECT:
Comment on Proposed Policy Decision on Japanese Employment Abroad.
Selleian
(1) The reference to the Japanese Government is unnecessary during
the SCAP regime of control, - as SCAP can delegate any control function.
It may further be objectionable to some FEC countries as involving the
assumption of authority by Japanese Government as distinct from SCAP. This
reference is possibly undesirable as putting the Japanese Government as
such, prematurely in a position to criticize working or living standards in
other countries. The reference in para 5 to Japanese responsibility for
policing work contracts abroad is subject to the same comment. Protection
of Japanese interests abroad during the SCAP regime of control might better
be left nominally to SCAP.
of gualifications for proposed employment. Preferable phrase would be
"cleared", which indicates only the absence of objections for reasons such
as those of security.
(3) This is a "general principle" which would involve both difficulty
8
and expense in implementation. It would require extensive records and time-
consuming, complex and arbitrary evaluation of what are essentially variable
力
factors making up "normal living expenses in the country of employment." In
the case of Japanese seamen, the proposed language would require special inter-
pretation of both 'local currency" and "foreign exchange". On some voyages,
wages offered might not include any "foreign exchange useful for the purchase
of essential imports for Japan".
Existing foreign exchange controls over payments and remittances from
overseas to Japanese nationals should be adequate to protect the financial
interests of SCAP. The foreign employment of Japanese nationals in the present 
setting of overpopulation and a non-self-supporting economy is a clear benefit
to Occupation finance. Such remittances as Japanese employed abroad may
voluntarily make to the accounts of themselves, their dependents or other
Japanese in Japan would increase this benefit without new machinery or expense.
To establish new machinery and incur new expense in order to recapture the
"surplus" income of Japanese employed abroad over their "normal living expenses"
would tend to defeat the purpose of the policy both by discouraging applica-
tions and by generating expenses to offset the foreign exchange sought.
A parallel effort by OMGUS to control through JEIA the foreign exchange
"Surplus" earnings of German technicians temporarily employed abroad has
seriously hampered such employment.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-
yi
(4) The language here appears unnecessarily detailed and may be
too rigid to conform with established practices in different fields of
work.
(5) See comment on Japanese government functions in para. 1 above.
futh20.
(6) This paragraph contains two unrelated restrictions, one political,
and one economic. The economic restriction might better be consolidated
with a revised and generalized policy statement on economic controls to
replace present para.3.
Such of the above points as you may approve can be reflected in a
redraft policy paper that might be more palatable for introduction by a
member of FEC other than U. S.
50.61.82-
0:JFRJr:0e

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
DRAFT POLICY DECISION ACCEPTABLE
TO THE UNITED STATES GOVERNENT
ON THE EMPLOYMENT OF JAPANESE ABROAD
The Far Eastern Commission decides as a matter of polioy that
Japanese nationals shall be permitted to accept employment abroad under
regulations established by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
in Japan to accord with the following general principles:
(1) Employment shall be on a voluntary basis, with remuneration and
conditions for working and living acceptable at once to the Supreme
Commander, the Japanese Government, the Japanese employee and the foreign
cleared
employer.
(2) Applicants for employment must be individually approved by the
Supreme Commander's Headquarters.
(3) That proportion of total wages or salary sufficient for normal
living expenses in the country of employment shall be paid in local currency.
All acditional remuneration shall be paid to the account of the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan in foreign exchange useful for the
purchase of essentiel imporis for Japan. The Supreme Commander will cause
the Japanese Government to deposit an equivalent amount in yen at the military
conversion rate or other official rate that may subsequently be fixed to the
account of the employee or his dependents in Japan.
with punsion whare
shall bo
(4) The term of employment set forth in the contracts shell dot exceed
crucernad.
two years, but this period may be extended in case all parties to the agreement
all conteacbs stale pernit
desire. Hewever the employer or the employee shall be permitted to terminate
ans shace provid that
emplamaut
with specipid
the individual contract at any time by giving one monthls notiee, A In case the
astatispeinod of
employee avails himself of this privilege before the expiration of ene year's
specified
service, he shall be required to pay a portion of the costs of his
repatriation.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
(5) The Japanese employee shall have unrestricted right of
communication with Japan, and it shall be the responsibility of the
Japanese Government to bring to the attention of the Supreme Commander
for appropriate action through the diplomatic channel any complaints
by Japanese employees regarding the fulfillment by foreign employers
of wcrk contracts. In order to ensure compliance with the terms of the
contract, arrangements should be made for inspection of working and
living conditions of the employees, should such be deemed necessary,
by duly authorized SCAf representatives or designees.
(6) Japanese employed abroad are not to engage in political activi-
ties of any sort during the period of their employment, and are not to
accuire property abroad except as may be required for normal living
purposes during the period of their employment.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.94)
SUBJECT OR
DATE DUE
FILE NO.
894.504/7-3048
4/7/52
DATE OF DOC.
DOC. NO.
poer 1kille 37/52
SECURITY CLASS.
DATE CHARGED
7/30/98
TOLERON
Meno-TLH-Slivan
ENCLOSURES
CHARGE TO
0'pill fo . Hillen
SYMBOL
OFFICE
S
Form DS-933a (9-1-51)
(Signature)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: Ju1y 36, 1048
CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT:
Expected Resignation of James S. Killen, Chief of Labor
Division, SCAP.
PARTiciPANTs: r. Frank Fenton, International Representative of the
American ederation of Labor.
Lr. Philip B. Sullivan, ILH.
OFFICE OF
INTERNATIOCAL TRADE POLICY
COPIES TO:
AUG 9- 1948
DEPI RTMENT TE
504
r. Fenton telephoned mo late yesterday afternoon
for a discussion of tho circumstances surrounding the
4/7-3048
report that r. James S. Killen, Chief of SCAP's Labor
Division, intended to resign because he could not agree
with the new labor policy laid down by General MacArthur.
1 related to him the general facts behind the dispute
between the Labor Division and units of the Government
Section, SCaP, in recard to provisions of the National
Public Service Law and its effect upon the existing
rihts of laior org nizations of sovernment employees.
I pointed out that the asic issue involved was not
that oi the right of Government Civil Service workers
to strike, but rather the right to engage in collective
bargaining activities. Jovernment administrative
employees are forbidden to strike under terms of
Article 38 of the Labor Relations Adjustment Act.
Mr. lenton had received a copy of General acrthur's
lettor embodying his decision regarding the abve
mentioned dispute. Fenton was extremely indignant
reference to the possible failure of employees of
government
DGD
CONFIDENTIAL
CSA
Bey.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
government-owned industries or utilities to "faithfully
discharge their responsibilities of employment." He
read this passage to me and indignantly stated: "That
sounds like a publication of the National Assooiation
of lanufacturers."
I pointed out that if Killen and his deputy,
Paul Stanchfield, resigned, the Labor Division would be
in an extremoly weak position in the coming crucial
poriod oi reaujustment of labor matters, and that ILH
hopod the resi nation, it inevitable, would be delayed
until after the best possible arrangements to proteot
labor's interests in the li ht of the present ciroum-
stances ltu been secured.
enton, however, rofused to consider an A'ofL
ap roach co illen until the Lattor comnunicated with
them. o stated .at the ofL had reat confidence
in Killen and if ho--Killen--felt he had to resign they
wonld back him in that decision. Moreover, if the
rosi nation toolt place, enton said, the AFofL would
cease s portin acartihur in his labor program as
would ot er labor movements throughout the world.
The Ci0 is likewise closely following the situation.
James Carey, Secretary-Treasurof the National CIo,
closely queried the drafting oii icer on the details of
the case while urivin home from an evening meeting.
Carey expressed his rogard for Killen by saying that it
would be a loss to the Jap nese labor movement if he
would resi n, but aid not incicate what, if anything.
the CIo would do. is comments and questions, however,
indicated that he regarded any restrictions on
collective bargaining by employees of the Japanese
tovernment other than thoso who may legitimately be
classed as "Civil Servico omployees", to be entirely
indefonsible.
1LH:PBSullivan:aps
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
No. 490
FOR JAPAN
NIR HLSTAOTLAIRS
CONFIDENTLAL (For use of Department only)
4-Xhv.
BuaTs
Tokyor magus1943, 1948
L6.
DEPAHTMENI OF STATE
Subject: Communist Influence in Japanese Labor
yR
DC
894.00B
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Weshington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a memorandum
of conversation dated July 27, 1948, surmarizing a con-
versation held between an officer of this Mission and
Mr. HIToTSUlATSU masaji, Democratic-Liberal rarty member
of the House of Councillors.
The opinions expressed by r. Hitotsumatsu in this
conversation are representetive of the present attitude
held by many of the more conservative Japanese political
and business leaders. His views are also believed to
reflect prevailing sentiment in the Democratic-Liberal
Party.
Kr. Eitotsunatsu reguested that his remarks be treated
confidentially because he wished tc peak freely and frankly
concerning aspects of the Cccupation which he felt were
detrimental to Japan's recovery. It has been noted that
3348
Japanese businessmen and political leaders are becoming
more inclined to discuss such matters frankly. This has
become particulerly true in regard to the labor problem,
since the better informed Japanese appear to be convinced
that the present unstable, and at times chaotic, labor
situation has a disastrous effect on Japanese economic
recovery and is a serious obstacle to attracting foreign
capital and enterprises to Japan. The surprisingly rapid
and favorable reaction of almost all Japanese to the
Supreme Commander's letter to Fremier ASHIDA of July 22,
1948 regarding revision of the National -ublic Service
Law by which the right of government workers to strike
will be prohibited is clear evidence of the extent to
which the Japanese public has become aroused over labor
excesses. (In this connection, reference is made to our
despatch no. 491 of August 3, 1948, on the subject "Japanese
reaction to Supreme Commander's letter concerning revision
S
of the Public Service Law".)
S
Mr. Hitotsumatsu stated that many Japanese with hom
he is associated are convinced that the present labor
pro.em
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
fokyo's No. 490
ugust 3, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
problem is in good part the result of the labor policies
pursued heretofore by the Occupation. Japanese labor has
acquired too many rights and priviliges wi thout sufficient
consideration given to the responsibilities of labor. He
believes that in any capitalistic economy there must be a
reasonable balance between labor and management, but that
under the Occupation labor has been favored at the expense
of management (and often at the expense of the general
public) with the result that the necessary equilibrium
X
between labor and management has been destroyed. The
Japanese communists, working through their powerful frao-
tions in the labor unions, have taken advantage of this
740.0
imbalance to exploit the labor movement's immaturity and
sudden acquisition of power for communist-inspired polit-
ical aims.
In Mr. Hitotsumatsu's opinion, SCAP labor policies,
especially in the earlier stages of the Occupation, have
therefore been partly responsible for the delay in econ-
omic recovery. Not only must the Japanese businessman
take into account abrupt price changes and irregular
supplies of materials, but he is also confronted by the
erratic and unpredictable behavior of labor as one of the
vital factors of production.
Japanese with whom Mr. Hitotsumatsu associates in
political and business circles are becoming apprehensive
that Japan's present rate of recovery will not prove
sufficient to ward off some form of depression which many
now feel is certain to come when the present period of
inflation ends. If such a depression occurs after the
Occupation is withdrawn, there is a growing fear that
public safety facilities will be inadequate to control the
communist-inspired unrest and disorders which may break
out. Mir. Hitotsumatsu believes that if such a situation
occurs after the Occupation is withdrawn, the communists,
with Soviet support, might readily seize power, and that
conservative elements, such as the Democratio-Liberal
Party, will surely be marked for liquidation under a com-
munist regime. For this reason, r. Hitotsumatsu is
convinced that many conservative Japanese are today
exceedingly hesitant to commit themselves openly, especially
in regard to any action involving opposition to the
communists.
In this connection, Mr. Hitotsumatsu noted that most
Japanese are perplexed by what appears to be an inconsis-
tency in United States policy. While opposing the spread
of communism in urope and elsewhere and while taking more
and more stringent measures against the communists in the
United States, the Occupation seems to give the Japanese
communists a free hand.
Mr. Hitotsumatsu also expressed the belief that
economic recovery is further handicapped by too much
detailed regulation of the Japanese economy by SCAP, and
by the lack of ability and understanding of many SCÁP
officials charged with handling economic problems.
The necessity
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
okyo's No. 490
August 3, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
- 3 -
The necessity for achieving a satisfactory readjust-
ment of labor-management relations from the standpoint of
assisting Japan's over-all economic recovery has been
stressed frequently in the Japanese press. In its issue
of July 29, 1948, Tokyo Shimbun noted particularly that
XR
foreign capital will remain hesitant to seek investment
in Japanese industry unless the Japanese labor movement
is placed upon a more rational and moderate basis. This
newspaper accordingly expressed the belief that greater
control.must be exercised over not only government workers,
as directed by the Supreme Commander's letter to the Prime
Minister, but over all labor union activity.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Acting Political Adviser
aH
Enclosure:
Memorandum of Conversation,
July 27, 1948
a
Origina1 and ozalid to Department
Copy to:
2/x
American Embassy, moscow
850.4
CNSpinks:gm

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
ONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure to Despatch no.490
dated August 3, 1948 from the
Office of the Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject,"Communist Influ-
ence in Japanese Labor".
(COPY)
UNITED ST TES POLITICAL DVISER FOR JAPAN
EMORANDUR OF CONVERSATION
ugust 3, 1948
SUBJECT:
Communist Influence in Jopenese Labor
1RTICIFANTS: Lr. EITOTSUTSU Maseji, Lember of House
of Councillors
Lr. IITOTSUTSU Hiseshi, Secretary
r. Charles Nelson SPINKS, USPOLAD
On July 27, 1948 r. HITOT3UaTSU Maseji, Democratic-
Liberal Farty member of the louse of Councillors, with his
son and secretary, Mr. EITOTSU TSU Hisashi, called at this
i.ission to discuss the problem of communist influence in
the Japanese lebor movement with Foreign Service Officer
Charles Nelson SFINKS. The entire discussion was with the
elder Hitotsumatsu.
r. Hitotsumatsu is conservetive in his views but
should not be regarded es resctionary. He hes wide contacts
in politicel end business circles and reflects the more con-
servetive sentiments of J: panese business leaders. The
views he expressed in this meeting ere also believed to
reflect generelly the ettitude of the Democretic-Liberel
rarty.
i.r. Hitotsumatsu wes particularly emphatic in stressing
the dangers of coamunism in Japan as manifested in the labor
movement. he expressed the belief that the Occupation has
heretofore given too much emphasis to labor with the result
that lebor has been pushed too far ahead for its own good,
that in any capitalistic society there must be a reasonable
balance maintsined between labor and management, but such
equilibrium is inpossible to maintein if labor is unduly
favored by government at the expense of manegement.
r. Eitotsumatsu is convinced that Japanese labor has had too
many new advanteges and privileges thrust upon it with insuf-
ficient consideration given to the responsibilities of labor.
He feels that Japanese labor by both tradition and tempera-
ment is still unprepered for the new role it has assumed.
In Mr. Hitotsumatsu's opinion many of the new privil-
eges and adventages Japanese labor has acquired through
such laws as the Labor Standards Law and the Labor Relations
Adjustment Law ere ill-suited to present day conditions in
Japan. In the present stete of economic crisis, shorteges
and infletion, Japan cannot afford the luxury of such
requirements and conditions for labor. Mr. Hitotsumatsu
feels that Japan's economic recovery can only be brought
about in
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
E cl. to Tokyo's no.490
A.gust 3, 1948
about in the final analysis by hard work on the part of
the entire population and that accordingly it is not
advisable to prescribe too rigidly the number of hours
a man should be &llowed to work, the minimum wage he
should receive and the exact conditions under which he
must work.
ir. Hitotsumatsu deplored the postwer tendency of
Japanese organized lebor to seek political objectives
through labor disputes and strikes. He pointed out that
this aspect of recurrent labor offensives has been consis-
tently fostered and promoted by the conmunist fractions
within labor uhions.
ir. Hitotsumatsu expressed the hope that the Occupa-
tion authorities in Japan would take a firmer stand toward
the communists. He seid many Japanese heve become exceed-
ingly puzzled by what appears to be a serious inconsistency
in United Stetes policy. while the United States has since
the end of the wer edopted a strong policy in opposing the
spreed of conmmunism in western Europe and other areas and
has become more and more severe in dealing with communists
and their sympathizers in the United States, the Japanese
communists appear to heve & virtually free hand.
He pointed out thet the situetion is beconing such
that only the Japanese comnunists appear able to criticize
the Occupation with impunity. Heretofore, the Occupation
hes teken only one major step which the Japanese believe
was an effective move against the communists, namely, the
Supreme Commander's banning of the proposed February 1
General Strike in 1947.
In view of widespread Japanese convictions that the
Occupation hes deliberately (and inconsistently) given the
communists a free hand, the Supreme Commender's letter to
Premier A3HIDA of July 22, 1948 came as a most welcome
surprise to virtually all Japanese except the communists.
In Mr. Hitotsumatsu's view, it is only the communists and
communist elements operating in the labor movement who will
be at a disadvantage when the National Fublic Service Law
is amended to prevent government workers from striking.
The communists have mede a particularly intense drive to
gain control of the government workers' unions, for, as
Mr. Hitotsumatsu pointed out, labor offensives conducted
by these unions are most likely to attain direct political
results, such as the overthrow of a cabinet, which is one
of the primary principles of conmunist strategy.
Mr. Hitotsumetsu wes asked if he would care to name
any specific examples of activity by which the Japanese
have been led to believe that the Occupetion has been
partial to the communists. Mr. Hitotsumatsu hesitated to
name specific points for in doing so he could not help but
criticize the Occupation, but to speak in strict confidence
and with complete frenkness he said he felt the principal
trouble was to be found in the initial conduct of SCAP
labor policies by the Labor Division of the Economic and
Scientific Section. r. Hitotsumatsu desired to emphasize,
however, that a significant change for the better has taken
place in the Labor Division since Mr. J. S. KILLEN assumed
charge, but that it was now difficult to correct many of
the abuses
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
301. to.
okyo's no.490
- 3 -
ugust 3,1948
the abuses which had been inspired by his predecessor's
policies. Mr. Hitotsumatsu said that in the opinion of
many the policies pursued by the Labor Division in the
early stages of the Occupation under Mr. Theodore COHEN
(presently an economic adviser to the Chief of ESS) had
not only done much harm to Japan's economic recovery but
had in the long run proved a disservice to the Japanese
labor movement. Many Japanese are convinced that Mr.Cohen
deliberately favored labor at the expense of management
and that he was largely responsible for creating a most
undesirable imbalance between labor and management by
attempting to thrust labor too far ahead for its own good
and by his generally hostile attitude toward employers in
labor disputes. As a result, labor not only received
inflated ideas of its own rights and prerogatives, but
employers were actually intimidated to the point where
they lost initiative and enthusiasm. Thus, in
Mr. Hitotsumatsu's opinion, management has become more
and more uneasy about embarking on plans for expansion or
rehabilitation for feer that labor will always be an unpre-
dictable factor in production calculations, while at the
same time frequent strikes, slow downs and other labor
disputes, inspired to a good extent by SCAP labor policy,
have further retarded production.
Notwithstanding recent gains in the Japanese economy,
Lir. Hitotsumatsu is convinced that Japan's recovery to date
will be wholly inadequate to werd off some form of depres-
sion when the present period of inflation comes to an end.
This depression will result in large-scale unemploy-
ment and wili thereby provide the Japanese communists with
a most favorable opportunity. Many Japanese are afraid
that this period of depression may come about after the
Occupation is withdrawn. Mr. Hitotsumatsu does not feel
that the present public safety facilities will be adequate
to cope with communist-inspired unrest and disorders which
may take place in such a period of depression. Conserva-
tive Japanese are also afraid that Soviet aussia may use
this opportunity to intervene in Japanese affairs and
thereby succeed in putting the communists in power. Remote
as these possibilities may seem at the present moment,
Mr. Hitotsumatsu is convinced that the fear of such
developments haunts many Japanese and thereby makes them
reluctant to take a cleer-cut stand on political issues
which involve any opposition to the communists.
Mr. Hitotsumatsu stressed that members of the Democraic-
Liberal Party, which has been frequently branded within
and without J&pan as a "reactionary" element, feel they
cannot be indifferent to the possibility that they will be
earmarked for liquidation if the communists ever'come to
power. The possibility of & severe depression, which might
bring the communists to power with outside support, is
therefore all the more elarming.
Mr. Hitotsumatsu is also convinced that economic
recovery in Japan is being seriously handicapped by too
much detailed regulation of the economy by SCAP. Economic
controls have become so ramified and rigid that there is
little possibility of rapid and flexible adjustments to
meet the ever-changing situation. Working through the
cumbersome bureauoracy of the Japanese government and the
complicated structure of the Occupation, it takes so long
to effect
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
incl. to Tokyo's no.490
August 3, 1948
- 4 -
to effect changes in control regulations that by the time
such changes are finally debated, drafted and put in force,
an entirely new situation hes developed for which the
changes are no longer appliceble. At the same time,
Mr. Hitotsumatsu felt he should point out that Japanese
business men have little faith in the ability or under-
stending of many SCAP officials in the Economic and
Scientific Section with whom they are compelled to deal.
Some of these individuals have had no previous experience
in the particular line of business with which they are
concerned, while others are totally unfamiliar with or
indifferent to the problems which are peculiar to production
in postwar Japan.
Cherles N. Spinks
850.4
CNSpinks:gm
0
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
SCCRET
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
August 10, 1948
U - Mr. Ibvett:
THROUGH: S/S
Subject: Draft Telegram to SCAP regarding Japanese Cabinet
Order of July 31, 1948 on Rights of Japanese
Government Employees.
Discussion:
The Cabinet Order in question, issued after receipt of a letter
from General MacArthur, is considered by the Departments of State and
Labor to violate U. S. and FEC labor policy for Japan, and to have
other undesirable political consequences in Japan, the U. S. and else-
where.
This draft message constitutes an interpretation of previously
established policy as applied to the objectionable provisions of the
Cabinet Order, and a request for early information from SCAP as to his
plans for rectifying the cited violations.
In view of the urgent interest of the Acting Secretary of Labor,
and since this topic was discussed at the Staff Meeting of August 10,
8-1048
the text of the draft message is submitted for your personal clearance.
Recommendation:
That you approve the attached draft message for transmittal to
the Department of the Army for clearance and dispatch through Army
channels to SCAP as a joint message from Labor, State and Army.
Concurrences:
ITP (Martin)
FE (Butterworth)
O (Saltzman)
Chiland A. Cextg
Dept. of Labor (Acting Secretary)
Attachments:
 Charles E. Saltzman
Draft telegram to SCAP (Tab A)
Draft letter of transmittal to Dept. of Army. (Tab B)
Memorandum from NA to FE, Aug. 10, 1948. (Tab C)
Memorandum from ILH to ITP, Aug.4,1948 (Tab D)
SCAP letter to Prime Minister, July 22,1948 (Tab E)
Text of Japanese Cabinet Order, July 31, 1948. (Tab F)
SECRET
O:JFRay;hjh

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
August 10, 1948
U - Kr. Lovett:
THROUGH: S/s
Subject: Draft Telegram to SCap regarding Japanese Cabines
Order of July 31, 1948 on Rights of Japanese
Government Employess.
Discussion:
The Cabinet Order in question, issued after receipt of a letter
from General MacArthur, is considered by the Departments of State and
Labor to violate U. S. and FEC labor policy for Japan, and to have
other undesirable political consequences in Japan, the U. 3. and else-
where.
This draft message constitutes an interpretation of previously
established policy as applied to the objectionable provisions of the
Cabinet Order, and a request for early information frum SCAP as to his
plans for rectifying the cited violations.
In view of the urgent intarest of the Acting Secretary of Labor,
and since this topic was discussed at the Staff Mesting of August 10,
the text of the draft message is submitted for your personal clearance.
Recommendation:
That you approve the attached draft message for transmittal to
the Department of the Army for clearance and dispatch through Army
channels to SCAP as a joint message from Labor, State and Army.
Concurrences:
ITP (Martin)
FE (Butterworth)
O (Saltsman)
Dept. of Labor (Acting Secretary)
Attachments:
Charles E. Saltsman
Draft telegram to SCAP (Tab A)
Draft letter of transmittal to Dept. of Aray. (Tab B)
Memorandum from NA to FL, Aug. 10, 1948. (Tab C)
Memorandum from  to ITP, Aug.4,1948 (Tab D)
SCAP letter to Prime Minister, July 22,1948 (Tab E)
Text of Japanese Cabinet Order, July 31, 1948. (Tab F)
SECRET
2416
O.JPRay1hjh

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
DRAFT TELBCRAM TO SOAP
(Throagh Army)
From Departments of Laber, State, and Army.
Text of ordinance issued by Japanese Cabinet July I on sights of
govarnment employees, which goes beyond suggestions your letter, appears te
us to be in violation of US and FEC Labor policy for Japan, and has caused
increasi ng concern both within and without the ranks of organised laber in
Us and in other countries associated with US in ocoupation. Moreever, if
carried out unmodified, it would hamper development of responsible demoeratie
unioniam which, as you fully appreciate, is in long run best guaranty agaiast
Communist appeal to rank and file of workers.
Main point at issue is ordinance's denial of collective bargaining to
workers outaide normal civil service categories - that is, in national and
local government industrial activities, such as majority of employees of rail-
ways, communications (other than postal), and aalt, tobacco and cmpher
monopolies, and strike in cases where little or no direct publio interest
involved such as tobacco and camphor monopolies. Furthermore we are greatly
concerned over Cabinet's precipitant cancellation of mutually negotiated laber
contracts.
We believe Japanese Go ernment ahould allow collective bargaining rights
to all these industrial or non-civil service employees, and not deny strike
rights where there is no danger to public interest. In other cases -- i.e.
railroads -- there should be arrangements for binding arbitmatien on unresolved
issues to prevent stoppages aga nst public interest. Your suggestion that
govemment industrial enterprises might best be handled by public corperations
to facilitate the normal labor relations appropriate to their economic character
appears to us to have great merit. Suggest study of most suocessful Us
experience in TVA, whose labor relations policy, worked out in collaberation

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.92)
with miens, has been outstanding'suosess.
What plans have you made to reotify the situatien aleng these lines?.
She earliest reply will be appreciated.
ITP: DMArtin
(Cleared in draft)
FB
ILH1PBSullivan:PM
ILH
(Cleared in draft)
Labor Department
SECRET
2416

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
ho a
AUG 1 : 1948 5 30i
8/11/48
Dear Mr. Draper:
The atteohed draft message to SCaP concerning the
Japanese Cabinet Order of July 31, 1948, Relative to the
Rights of Government Employees, reflects the ceordinated
viemm of the Departments of Labor and of State.
It is requssted that this message be given urgent
consideration by the Lepartment of the Army with a view to
its early clearance and dispatch through Army facilities es
a joint message from the three Departments.
Yours sinseraly,
Charles E. Saltmman
Assistant Searetary
A que coy of
the signed orie-
171
Attachment:
Draft cable.
The Honorable
William H. Lraper, Jr.,
Under Secrotary of the Army.
O:JFRay3hjh
8/10/48
SECRET
2414

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 84
SECRET
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE: August 10, 1948
SUBJECT:
The attached draft telegram to SCAP has been prepared
by ILH and ITP and has received not only the approval but
the encouragement of the Department of Labor. I have been
informed that Acting Secretary of Labor Gibson brought the
matter up in the Cabinet meeting last Friday and expressed
his concern at SCAP's precipitant action on such an important
matter without prior consultation with the appropriate
authorities in Washington. Mr. Gibson 1s reported to have
stated that Secretaries Marshall and Forrestal appeared
impressed by his statement.
It will be noted that the telegram does not place
definite blamfon SCAP but rather proceeds from the
assumption that the Japanese Cabinet's action went beyond
that recommended in SCAp's letter. It is therefore hoped
that SCAP can induce the Japanese Government to revise its
action without loss of face by SCAP.
Indications have been received that the British Member
of the Allied Council in Japan may bring this question up
in Tokyo. According to Mr. Sullivan of ILH, concern has
been expressed here in Washington by representatives of
ECA because of the repercussions SCAP's action has had
among European Communist-dominated labor unions who are
now raising a cry of American domination and are pointing
to SCAP's action as an example of what European labor
unions may expect when and if the United States through
ECA gains substantial control of the economies of the
various European governments.
Mr. Martin, Deputy Director of ITP, has stated he will
be available at any time to discuss this matter with you
should you so desire.
SECRET
NA:JMAll1son/pm

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Msmorandun
ITP - Mr. Edwin M. Martin
DATS: Augue
: ILH - Cleon O. Swayze
suajscr: Collective Bargaining and Strike Rights of Japanose
Government Employees.
Summary
The Japanese Cabinet, following the receipt of
letter from SCaP, has issued an ordinance denying collectivo
bargaining and strike rights to all employees of the Japanoso
Government. We believe this ordinance is too sweeping in
its provisions in that it restrains large numbers of Japan
workers from exercising rights to which they should be
entitled, and therefore that the Department should interot
itself in the matter with the intent of correcting the
situation.
State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee (Swncc) Papo
92/1, dated 16 November 1945, Treatment of Japanese Workere
Organizations, and declared by the Secretaries of Stato,
War and Navy to be United States policy on 28 December 1945
stated:
"As soon as Workers' organizations are
formed.......they should be encouraged to bargain
collectively with employers regarding terms of
employment, subject to such policies on wages
laws and working conditions as are established
by the Japanese Government."
Far Eastern Commission policy decision, dated
6 December 1946, entitled: Principles for Japanese Trade
Unions, stated:
"Trade unions should be encouraged to
negotiate with the employers on behalf of their
members regarding terms and conditions of
employment."
Strikes, according to both of the above polioy stato-
ments, were to be prohibited only when the occupation
authorities considered that work stoppages would direotly
prejudice the objectives and needs of the occupation.
Japanese
SECRET

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
Japanese law and the Japanese Constrtution also
the right of Japanese workers to bargain colleotively
workers to organise and to bargain and act colleotively is
guaranteed.
Discussions have been going on for some months between
the Labor Division of the Economio and Scientifio Section.
ScAP, and the Government Seotion relative to possiblo amond
ment of the provisions of the new National Publio Servioo
Law and the bearing of such amendment upon the colleotive
bargaining rights of Japanese Government employees. These
employees, numbering approximately 2,700,000, include not
only workers with administrative funotions, such as are
covered by the term "civil service employees" in the American
sense, but also all employees of government-owned industries
such as the railway, telephone, telegraph and postal systems
and of the salt, tobacco and camphor monopolies. A large
majority of the total are in the latter category. Japanese
law has not permitted the administrative employees to
strike, though they have been granted the right to conduot
bargaining negotiations with government agenoies. The
larger group, operating employees as they are called, have
had both bargaining and strike rights.
On July 22 SCAP addressed a letter to Prime Minister
Ashida recommending amendments to the National Publio Sorvice
Law. This message, though somewhat ambiguous on a number of
points, recommended in effect that colleotive bargaining
rights be taken away from all exoept those who were employed
by the government monopolies and the railways. The latter
group, roughly 20% of the total, were to be allowed mediation
and arbitration privileges. Ali of the 2,700,000, it was
recommended, be denied the right to strike.
The Japanese Cabinet immediately announced it regarded
the letter as a directive to be put into force at once by
Cabinet ordinance. Such an ordinance, based on an Imperial
Ordinance (September 20, 1945) authorizing the Cabinet to
issue any orders necessary to implement SCAP directives under
the Potsdam Declaration, would take legal precedence over
existing Japanese laws. This ordinance, finally issued on
July 3l and effeotive from that date, went even farther than
was recommended in SCAP's letter by denying colleotive
bargaining and striking rights to all employees "of the
National Government or local publio entities." Fines and
a jail sentence of up to one year were decreed for violation
of this ordinance. All existing labor contracts affecting
SECREI
pub1io

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
public employees were deolared mall and voids
These events have oreated a s
orisis im Japan, the results of which cannot at
foreseen. They likewise resulted in the resignatios
James S. Killen, Chief of Scap's Labor Division.
that (it is reported but not confirmed) of the Deputy
Mr. Paul Stanohrield. Mr. Killen is a prominont
in the American Federation of Labor, whose actions will
almost certainly be completely supported by his organis
with resultant damage to general support throughout the U.
for our occupation policies.
It is our belief that the changes in the previously
recognized rights of Japanese Government employees required
by this Cabinet ordinance go further than is warranted or
required by the situation in Japan. We agree that govern-
ment workers who may legitimately be called Civil Sorvioo
employees should be covered by Civil Service regulations and
denied rights of full collective bargaining and, of courso,
of striking. The bulk of the workers affeoted by this now
regulation, however, are not of this type. A defense can be
made, in the case of civil service workers, against a chargo
that employees are being denied rights laid down by the poliey
decisions named above as well as by the Japanese Constitution
No such defense, particularly in regard to the denial of
collective bargaining rights, can be made in the case of
non-civil-service employees of government. The almost uni-
versal practice followed in democratio countries for employeos
of this latter category, as for example in the TVA, 1s to
recognize fully their rights to organize and bargain colloot
ively, as well as to strike, though the latter right may in
practice not be tolerated in case a nationally vital servioe
were to be completely tied-up. Under the Japanese ordinanoe
however, even employees of the government tobacoo, salt and
camphor monopolies are denied both strike and collective
bargaining rights.
This is a matter of legitimate interest to the State
Department because: (1) The changes described above are so
great as to raise questions as to whether they do not in
effect constitute a change of polioy and are inconsistent
with SWNCC and FEC directives. (2) FEC member countries
especially those with labor governments, such as the United
Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand, are almost certain to
raise objections regarding this denial of labor rights both
within the FEC and to the Department directly. (3) Leadors
of
SECRET

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
of the AF of L and the CI0 are closely following
condemned the actions of SCAP and of the Japanese Cabt
Offioial protests are certain to be received. This 1s
a time to risk alienation of U.S. labor's support for
occupation or our general foreign policies.
It is therefore urgent that a Department position be
formlated and  mown to National Defenao and to soar
Attachments:
1. SCAP letter to Prime Minister Ashida.
(1 copy attached to original).
2. Text (Unofficial) of Japanese Cabinet
Order of July 31 Relative to Rights
of Government Employees.
R.0.S.
ILH:PBSufiivan:apg
SECRET

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
AttaohentNo
Text (Unofficial) of Japanese Cabines Ord
of July Sl Relative to Rights of Goveri
Employees
""The Cabinet hereby established the Cabinet order conoernin
the temporary measures to be taken in consequence of the let
of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to the Premier
dated July 22, 1948 under the Imperial Ordinance No. 548 of
1945 concerning the orders to be issued in pursuanoe of the
acceptance of the Potsdam Declaration.
"'1. Those persons who hold positions as employees of the
National Government or local publio entities, regardless of
whether they are appointed or employed (hereinafter referred
to as publio employees) shall not have the right, to be
exercised against the National Government or local publio
entities, of collective bargaining as usually understood with
its coercive character supported by the strike threat. Publio
employees or their organizations, however, may not be denied
the freedom, within the restriction of the present Cabinet
ordinance, to negotiate with the appropriate agency of the
National Goyernment or local publio entity in the sense of
being able freely to present individually or colleotively.
through their representatives, their complaints, opinions
desires, and grievances and to support the same by adequate
opportunity for discussion and the submission of evidence
"All acts heretofore taken by the Government in personnel
matters affecting public servants will be valid, so long as
they do not violate the spirit of the limitations imposed by
this Cabinet order, or were not taken in contravention of such
limitations.
"'All mediation proceedings now pending in which the National
Government or local public entities are parties will be
suspended. The National Personnel Authority will hereafter
be the agency charged with the protection of the interests of
public servants.
":2. No public employees may resort to strike or engage in
delaying or other dispute tectics which tend to impair the
efficienoy of operation of National Government or local publio
entities.
"Those who act in violation of the provision of the preceding
paragraph regardless of their status of being publio employees
may not assert their rights derived from such appointment or
employment against the National Government or local publio ontitiom

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
fine not exoeeding 5,000 yen."
"iSupplementary provisions
"'1. The present Cabinet order shall come into foroe as
the day of its promulgation.
":2. The present Cabinet order shall be effective until
legislation by the Diet concerning the amendment of the
Public Service Law mentioned in the letter of the Suprem
Commander for the Allied Powers to the Premier dated July
1948, and other measures which may be deemed necessary
undertaken and come into foroe.'

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.97)
5316
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INCOMING TELEGRAM
13
PLAIN
Action: i
Control 6318
Info:
Rec'd August 19, 1948
FB
1:43 a.m.
OLA
CIA
DCL
PROM: Shanghai
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFD
FC
TO:
Secretary of State
AUG D 1948
DCR
NO:
1845, August 19
Following is Central News Agency item
August 18 from Tokyo:
"Despite the recently enrorced labor standard law
majority Japanese workers are stil! forced to work
overhours or underpaid. Many of tnem operate under
miserable conditions with no securlty of employment
whatsoever. Investigations conducted by the Tokgo
Labor Standard Administrative Bureau exposed that out
of 2200 workshops inspected in Tokyo more than 1900
were found violating labor standar law provisions.
"Violation of the labor law which ruarantees minimum
LIAISNSN OFFI
wages, maximum working hours and safety for workers
was believed more frequent in prefectural areas to
which the Administrative Bureau's power has not yet
extended.
"Bureau officials said majority of the labor law vio-
lations numbering some thousand ceges are infringements
of working hours and the provisions about reveive
and safety measures against possible injurs during
operations. A great number of factories we foud not
NATIONAL THADE SEP 21 1948
keep accounts of wage payments. Other viotions in-
clude low wages, non-payment of allowancesror fffing
M1100
INFORMATI
Sent Tokyo 163, repeated Department.
ITP
CP
ILH
CABOT
IK
MH:ALH
PLAIN
PED
C.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: August 19, 1948
894.504/8-1948
Japanese Government Ordinance of July 31 Regarding
SUBJECT:
Rights of Public Employees.
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. J. F. Ford, First Seoretary, British Embassy
Mr. H. M. Benninghoff, Deputy Director, FE
Mr. J. M. Allison, Chief, NA
d
COPIES TO:
0
BC
FE
IL
NA
US POLAD, Tokyo
Mr. Ford called this afternoon and under intruotions from
his Government read portions of a telegram from London giving
the comments of the British Government on the Japanese Government
Ordinance regarding Rights of Public Employees 1ssued after the
receipt by the Japanese Prime Minister of General MacArthur's
letter of July 22. Mr. Ford prefaced these comments with a
statement, which he has requested be kept strictly confidential,
to the effect that Mr. Patrick Shaw, British Commonwealth repre-
sentative on the Allied Council for Japan, had received instruotion
from the Australian Government to place this subject upon the
S
agenda of the ACJ but that as a result of the personal inter- 
A
vention of Mr. Bevin in London with Mr. Evatt this instruction 
had been cancelled. Mr. Ford stated that although Mr. Bevin and:
the UK Government are entirely in sympathy with the Australtan 
point of view concerning the rights of civil servants and Gsvern-
ment industrial workers, nevertheless in view of the stand taken
by the Soviet member of the ACJ on this question Mr. Bevin felt
that it would be inexpedient for the British Commonwealth to raise
the matter publicly at this time. However, Mr. Bevin did instruct
the Embassy to express his concern over the situation and to
express the hope that some remedial measures might be taken in
the near future so that the UK Government would be in a position
5
to give reassuring replies to the questions it was certain would
be asked in Parliament when thet body reconvenes after its present
recess. A copy of a summary of the views of the British Govern-
ment left by Mr. Ford is attaohed hereto.
Mr. Ford
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Mr. Ford was assured that the views of the British Government
would receive thorough consideration and would be passed on to
SCAP for his information. Appreciation was also expressed at
Mr. Bevin's action in preventing a public diseussion of the matter
in the Allied Council for Japan.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAI
Japanese Government Ordinance of 3lst
July regarding Rights of Public Employees.
AUG 149
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Japanese Government issued this ordinance after
Mr. Ashida received General McArthur's letter of 22nd July,
which we do not believe he intended to be a directive. We
are concerned that the ordinance puts industrial workers
on the railways and in the salt, camphor and tobacco monopolies
on the same footing as civil servants in the government as
regards the right to strike and bargain collectively. We
consider that in this respect the Japanese Government's
ordinance goes too far, and in fact we notice that General
McArthur's suggestion that employees in these categories might
well be excepted from the regular civil service, with which
suggestion we emphatically agree, appears to have teen ignored
by the Japanese Government. In the view of His Majesty's
Government it would be wrong that industrial workers in these
categories should be deprived of the right to strike and bargain
collectively which is normally enjoyed by industrial workers in
general. This could be remedied if General McArthur would
insist upon compliance by the Japanese Government with that part
of his letter which deals with this aspect of the situation.
Unless this is done soon the criticism is bound to be made that
the action of the Japanese Government conflicts with the spirit
of FEC-O45/5 and should not have been allowed.
2.
As regards civil servants in the more strict
definition of the term, His Majesty's Government consider that
it is unfortunate that they should now be placed in a position
markedly inferior to that which they enjoy in many other democratic
countries. We should not wish to object to their being deprived
of the right to strike; but the right of the civil servant to
organise and bargain on a footing of equality coupled with the right
of appeal to some form of arbitration tribunal has existed for
many years in the United Kingdom and the system functions smoothly.
There is no "coercive character" in such a system, nor is there any
suggestion of a "strike threat". The mere right of petition to an
organ of the Japanese Government, which is all that is at present
left open to the Japanes. civil servant, is clearly a poor
substitute.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.95)
ALD
TO
 NA - Mr. Allison
DATE: August 31, 1948
FROM : NA - Mr. Green MG.
H
1
1
suject: Yesterday's Meeting on Japanese Labor Situation.
Mr. Wisner reports that at the meeting attended
yesterday at the Pentagon by Messrs. Gibson and Kaiser
of the Labor Department, Mr. Wisner, and Messre. Royall,
Dreper and other Army people, the following decisions
were reached:
1. In view of the many complaints received by the
Labor and Army Departments over SCAP's letter to Ashida
and subsequent developments, a joint press release will
be made by Army, State and Labor stating that (a) the
letter was within the prerogative of SCAP and in no way
of
conflicte with FEC labor policy for Jepan, (b) the
ensuing interim Japanese Cabinet ordinance is being
8
thoroughly investigated, and (c) any laws passed by the
6
Diet affecting Japanese government workers' rights will
4.504/8-3
be studied by SCAP to ensure thet the FEC's "Principles
for Japanese Trade Unions" 1s not violated.
An advance copy of tre press release will be given
to Mr. Wisner late thie morning. He has asked NA and
ILH to check it over before he clears 1t.
2. A statement of principles governing Japanese
-3148
government workers' rights will be drawn up by the Army
Department on the basis of yesterday's meeting.
I understand that the meeting witnessed a nead-on
collision between Labor and Army. Labor is reported to
have made a telling case which, although it did not
visibly affect Royall and Draper who left early, did
C
result in a tentative acceptance by the other Army
S
people to the principle that the Japanese Cabinet
ICV
ordinance was excessive in its withdrawal of all govern-
ment workers' collective bargaining rights.
E
FE:NA:MGreen:lt
4
Rev

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRICTED
NA
DATE: September 9, 1948
PROM : MG/ WG.
suject: Attached: Memo of Conversation with Mr. Killen
Here is the inside story on Killen's resignation as
told by him to Mr. Coolidge (DRF) and to Mr. Sullivan (ILH).
Centra
RM/R
atmosphere of palace politics in which SCAP's decision to
5
1P
move against the Government Unions - and the Labor Divlsion
8
894.5043
of ESs - was taken.
I thoroughly gree with Killen's argument that colleotiva
5
bargaining, unsupported by the strike threat, can hardly
be regarded justifiably as a coercive measure.
05
It is evident that Hoover and Whitney won MacArthur
over by appealing to the larger issues at stake, 1.e.
the threat of communism to Japan; whereas Mr. Killen
pitched his line of srgumentation at the somewhat lower
6
level of the rignts of organized labor. For this reason
there appears to have been no real joining of the 1ssues
at the time the question was resolved in Headquarters.
CS
RESTRICTED
894.504
/HHH
NA:MGreen/pm
4
19.948
Rev.
Cat

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
us fficils anly
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: . September 4, 1948
SUBJECT:
Denial of Collective Bargaining and Strike Rights of
Japanese Goverrment and Publio Employees.
PARTICIPAWTB: Nr. Jamss S. K1llen, recently chief of SCAP's Iabor
Division, Economic and Soientific Section.
Mr. Philip B. Sullivan, IIH
Mr. Bradford Coolidge, DRF
COPIES TO:
O Mr. J. Franklin Ray
ITP Mr. Edwin M. Martin
NA Mr. John H. Allison (through Mr. Marshall Groen)
POS Mr. Faank A. Schuler
IIH Mr. Philip B. Sulliven
(Noto: Mr. Killon resigned as chiof of the Labor Division of SCAP Hoadquerters
as a result of General MacArthur's recommendations of July 22 concerning the
labor rights of Japanese public eaployees. He is resuming duties as a Vice-
President of the International Brotherhood of Pulp, Sulphite, and Paper Mill
Workers, AFL.)
SUMMARY
1. General MacArthur's decision in the isaue of labor righte ve. civil
service status for Japanese public employees was made largely on the basie of
the strike record and strike potential of the umions conoerned, although the
Labor Division was not arguing for retention of the right to strike. The
General rejected the case for collective bargaining unaupported by right or
threat of strike.
2. In delivering to Premier Ashida the SCAP lotter of July 22, General
Whitney, chief of the Goverment Section, also gave the Premier a blueprint
of the course of action subsequently followed by the Japanese Government in
implementing it.
3. Mr. Sobald, US Political Adviser, privately expressed to Mr. Killen
his conoern over the international repercuesions he expected, and his discomfiture
over having to dofend the letter and its implemsntation without having been
consulted at loast as to its internaticnal aspects.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
11 -
RESTRICTED
4. Mr. Killen resigned because, as an American trede-unionist,
he felt that he could not reconcile himeelf to administering a policy
with which he was in virtually ccmplete disegreement; and that under the
ciroumstanoes he himself could do less than the Japanese and the Allied
Powers concerned to obtain a modification of the policy. Although a
statement of his position was not carried by the Japanese press, its
contents beoam ganerally known.
5. Protests against the Japanese Government's implementation of
the SCAP letter, and by implication against the letter iteelf, came
from a muoh wider area of the labor movement than the unions directly
concerned, largely because of a fear that the rights of labor ganerally
would be subject to attack.
6. Nr. Killen believes that the basic Allied objective with respect
to labor in Japan is the development of a strong, sound, and autonomous
labor movement. The movement is in need of corrections, some of which
can best be supplied by guidance, some by administrative means, and only
a few by logislation. In his view, however, the polioy presently in
force is little short of suppression; it will probably not assist the
emergence of a militant and intelligent trade-union leadership that can
outemart the Communists on their oum ground. The present situation, he
fears, may react to the advantage of the Commmist Party in that it
constitutes the denial by US authority of basic rights deemed imperative
in building free institutions in Japan, thereby discrediting our professed
policy to "demooratize" that nation.
OIR:IRF:WSHunsbergor(BCoolidgo):BF

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
MR. KILIEN'S REMARKS ON THE DENIAL OF COLLECTIVE BARGADNING
AND STRIKE RIGHTS OF JAPANESE COVERNIENT AND PUBLIC DPLOYEES
1. General MacArthur's Docision
Several days before General NacArthur's letter of July 22, a seven-
hour debate on the iasue of the labor rights of government employees was
held in the General's presence. The Goverment Section, arguing for the
inclusion within the regular civil service of all goverment mmployees
and the enmulment of their labor rights granted under laws then in force,
was represented by General Whitney and Nr. Kades, its chief and deputy
chief, and by Mr. Blaine Hoover and Mr. MacCoy, civil service experts.
General Marquat and tr. Killen represented the Economic and
Soiontific Section, arguing for:
(al The retention of govermment employees' right to organize and
to bargain colloctively.
(b) The use of medistion and compulsory arbitration as a substitute
for ths custorary weapone of stribes and lockouts.
(c) The exerciss by the Diet of over-riding authority where
necesaary and/or appropriate.
Although virtually the entire top level of SCAP Headquarters was
present, discussion was carried on almost exolusively by General MacArthur,
Mtr. Hoover, and Mr. Killen.
The debate was divided into an afternoon and an evoning seusion. During
the afternoon, kr. Killen believed that he was at least holding his owm.
For exemple, General MacArthur poveral times declared himself in agreement
with the principle that teachers and employees of other non-essential
goverment aotivities should retain the right to bargain collectively in
the usually accepted sense. Br. Hoover, confrouted by quastions such as
"Should coal miners be recruited by compotitive civil service exsminations"?
did not make a direot reply but confined himself to arguing that the
authority of the state mst be suprame. Even in the face of the admittedly
successful Whitley Coumcils in the British oivil service, Mr. Hoover folt
British experience had no bearing on the Japanese situation. He disagreed
that labor rolations in the Tennessee Valley Authority were good and
maintained that the US made a grievous mistake in exoluding TvA from civil
service coverags.
Upon entoring SCAP's office for the evening session, the conferees
found General Whitney already there. It became evident during the
subeequent disoussions that General MacArthur had during the recese been
largely persuaded to the viewpoint of the Government Soction. For example,
he reversed hie earlier vieus in favor of full labor rights for employees
of non-essential goverment ssrvices; he repeatedly called attention to
the past and then-threatening strikes of government employees; and he cited
with approval the principle that the arthority of the state must be supreme,
above challenge, and cortainly not on equal footing in any respeot with

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
2 -
RESTRICTED
that of a minority group. In particular, General MacArthur expounded
the thought that Japan, having renounced war end military organizations,
was a "powerless state"; therefore the possibility of a mass uprising
that the police foroe alone night not be able to check could not be
tolerated. Mr. Aillen points out that this line of thought assmes
the contimuation of collective bargaining in the usual sense -- 1.e.
supported by threat of strike. In the debate he argusd that his
proposal would largely remove the anticipated danger, both by
substituting peaceful for foroeful means of settlement, and by
providing an outlet for pent-up pressures through the retention of
colloctive bargaining.
At the conclusion of the session, General MacArthur stated that he
would consider the issue; that he might again call the parties togother; and
that in any ovent he would advise them of his decision. kr. Killen's first
notice of General MacArthur's letter to the Prime Minister was brought
by a foreign correspondent.
2. The Labor Division's Colloctive Bargaining Proposal
Throughout the debate, Mr. Killen sought to clarify the conoept of
collective bargaining unsupported by threat of striks. This conoept is
embodied in the civil service legielation of the United Kingicm,
Australia, New Zealand and other democracies. It is practiced in some
government enterprises in the United States, such as the TVA, the
inland waterways, and the Alaskan railroads, as well as state and
municipal enterprises. It places employer and employee on equal footing
for purposes of negotiating a solution of differenoes; it imposes on each
a responsibility to negotiato in good faith for a solution; and in the
ovent of failure to reach a solution autonomously it provides for
tripartite mediation machinery or for binding arbitration in those cases
deemed proper matters for arbitration.
According to Mr. Killen, this concept is a relatively new one in labor
relations within govermment service but has proved its value especially in
the United Kingiom. It has developed in response to the need for adepting
traditional labor rights to modern conditions in whioh work stoppages in
activities of direct public interest would constitute a serious and
immediate threat to the publio welfare. This concept is embodied in
Japan's Labor Relations Adjuetment Lew, which denies to the government's
administrative (as opposed to manual or operating) employees the right
to strike.
The treditional concept of colleotive bargaining of a coeroive nature
supported by threat of strike dominated the thinking of the Goverment
Sootion representatives. In Mr. Killen's view, these men either could not
grasp the distinction between the two concepts, or, more likely, would not,
inasmmch as it was to their advantage to define collective bargaining in
terms that implied not only a theoretical derogation of the authority of
the state but also the possibility of a real and dangerous challenge.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
RESTRICTED
Kr. Killen believes that General MacArthur understood the distinotion,
as indicated by statements of the General during the first half of the
debate, as well as by the references in General MacArthur's letter of
July 22 to mediation and arbitration for railroad and monopoly woriers.
3. Interpretation of the SCAP Letter
In Mr. Killen's opinion, the SCAP letter was clearly intended to be
a directive in all but the nams. He conveyed this opinion to the
Japanese who immediately came to his office -- KAto Kanju, Minister of
Labor; DOBASHI Kazuyoshi, chairman of the commmication workers' union;
SUEHIRO Itsutaro, chairman of the Central Labor Relations Committee,
and others. Moreover, Mr. Killen learned on what he consideres
unimpeachable authority that General Whitney, in delivering the SCAP
letter to Premier Ashida, also delivered a blueprint of the course of
action later followed by the Japanese Govermment, including an outline
of the Cabinet Ordinance of July 31.
Mr. Killen does not find the SCAP letter convincing. Inter alia,
he considers that the lotter failed to meet squarely and deal with the
collective bargaining iseue, and that it over-emphasized the question of
the right to strik -- a point which Mr. Killon says had long ago been
recognized with respect to Japanest goverrment employees in vital
services. Mr. Killen says that the recommendation for the establishment
of kódan for the government railroads and monopolies, whose employees
would be excepted from the rogular civil serrice, is all right so far
as it goes. However, he argues that it would have been equally logical
to include at least the telephone and telegraph workers and the employess
of other enterprise-type activities (national and local) in the same
eategory.
4. Reactions Within Headquartors
Prior to hie departure, Mr. Killen had a conversation with Mr. Sebald,
who privately expressed his great concern over the international
reperoussions that he anticipated in the first instance in the Allied
Council. Aocording to Mr. Killen, Mr. Sobald appeared to feel that the
Department of State and its Mission in Tokyo had been put in the position
of having to defend the SCAP lotter and its implemontation without having
been consulted at least as to its international aspects.
Mr. Killen says that some groupe within Headquarters, notably the
Industrial Division of Economic end Scientific Section, immodiately sought
to have the application of General MacArthur's polioies as stated in the
letter extended to employees of vital private enterprises such as coal
mining and eleotric pover transmission.
5. Mr. Xillen's Resignation
After several days during which foroign correspondents and Japansse
labor people hounded him for a statmment of his position, tr. Killen
detormined to resign. As an American trade-unionist, ho felt that he

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
-4 -
could not reconoile himself to administering a policy with whioh be was
in virtually complete disagreement; and that under the ciroumstences he
himself could do less than the Japanese and the Allied Powers conoerned
to obtain a modification of the polioy. After issuing a brief statement
to the press, be submitted his resignation to General Marquat on July 30,
suggosting that it become effective "on September 30 or at the
convenience of the comsand." The resignation was accepted as of the
following day, July 31.
Before leaving Japan on August 12, Nr. Killen issued a more detailed
statemsnt of his roasons for resigning. This was not carried by the
Japanese press, which had recently been freed of pre-publication
censorship. At least some editors who queried the Chief of the Civil
Information and Education Section were told that if they did carry
Mr. Hillen's statement, they would do so "on their owm responsibility."
Mr. Hoover shortly held a press conference at which he issued a statement
in refutation of Mr. Killen's statement. Since the ganeral public had no
kmowledge of the latter, which was repeatedly referred to by Mr. Hoover,
Mr. Killen received many inquiries as to his position. Bo gave a copy af
his statement to Labor Minister Kato, and union leaders gsnerally learned
of its contants. Chairman Dobashi of the commmication workers' union
had a large billboard bearing the text of the message ereoted before the
Central Postoffice in Tokyo.
Mr. Killen urged KATo Kanfu, the left-wing Sooialist Labor Minister,
to forego his intention of resigning and to use his influence to
ameliorate the effects of the SCAp letter both in Cabinet discussions.
and in the scheduled special session of the Diet.
It may be noted here that Gemeral MaoArthur waived standing
regulations in order to have passage home for Mr. Killen and his family
padd by the Army.
6. Some Effecte of the SCAP Lotter
Genera! MacArthur's decision reculted in an imediate drop in the
prestige of the Labor Division within Headquarters and at Least tsmporarily
in its influence in the Japanese labor scane.
It is noteworthy, hovever, that statsments of protest against the
Japanese Govermment's implementation of the SCAP letter, and by implication
against the letter itself, ceme from a much wider area of the labor movement
than from the goverrment employees' unions directly concerned. Perhaps the
chief reason for this may be found in the fear that anti-labor interests
might seise the occasion to press on offensive against the legal rights
and the prossnt status of labor organizatione. For example, the Asmociation
of Managament Organizations had already indicated before Mr. Killen's
departure ite desire for the imposition of restriotions on the rights of
labor in private enterprises similar to those enforosd on the government's
employees.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5-
RESTRICTED
7. Beeds of the Japenese Labor Movement
Mr. Killen believes that the basic Allied objective with respeot to
Labor in Japan is the dovelopment of a strong, sound, and autonomous
labor movement. Without such a movement as a basis, he feels, there is
little point in legislative protection such as that afforded by the Labor
Standards Law. of the three major reform programs -- labor, land, and zaibateu
zaibateu -- the labor program is perhape the most diffioult to implement.
The Labor progrem involves the development of an organized, responeible and
free morement of Japanese workers exercising their rights and bearing
their responsibilities as members of a demooratic society. The developmont
of such a movement can be approached only partially by legislation; more
must be done by education and guidance. Once in form and motion, the
labor movement can protest iteelf.
Duriag the first two years of the occupation, the labor movement was
spoon-fed. Now it is in need of corrections. From Mr. Killen's basio
viewpoint, some of the needed corrections can best be supplied by guidance
and pressure; acme by administrative means; and only a few by legislation.
During the last few monthe of his temure, Mr. Killen sought to employ
the first two approaches. For example, be urged the Cabinet to undertaks
the step-by-step reduction and eventual elimination from govermment
payrolls of the 5,0o0-odd full-time union officials. Bo also urged that
the govermment insist on the inclusion in future labor agreemente of
disputes adjustment machinery; of provisions for the non-payment of
workors for time spent on stris; and of definite tsrmination clauses.
These proposals wore in procoss of implementation as of July.
As for legisletion, Mr. Killen favors for Japan the enactment of levs
providing for the fair and open olection of union officials; for the
publication of umion finances; and perhaps also for the holding of
rogular union meetings on the local level. Suoh logislation was not
pressed during the second national Diet session because of Headquarters
policy. The Socialist Party, a member or the coalition government, had
committed itself to opposing revision of the lebor laws, and it was
generally agreed within Hesdquarters to bep the coalition govermment going
at least through the period of greatest economic crisis.
In Mr. Killen's eyes, the policy in force at present is little short
of suppression of the heart of the Japanese labor movement, and, unless
modified, it is likely to have suppressive effects on the rest of the
labor movement.
Some observers, according to Xr. Xillen, advence the view that the
underlying fundementals of free trade unionism have now been fully
explained and dooumented for the benefit of Japanese worksrs and that they
and their umions must now sink or svim depending on their ccceptence of
the advioe and assistance already given. Mr. Killen considers that this
view has a bermel of truth. However, he feels that the risks inherent in
making such a view the basis of policy would be great indeed, partioularly
if the same sort of policy wore not simultaneously adopted with respect to
Japanese sooiety as a whole.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
.6 -
The basic correction needed is cno that must come in the long rum
from the Japanese themselves, Mr. Killen believes. This is the emergence
of a militant, intelligent and "scrappy" umion leadership that can
outsmert the Comemmists on their own ground. There is a small mumber of
such leaders at present. The Socialist trade-union Leaders have the
virtue of being anti-Commnmist and of keeping a large segmont of the
movement out of the Commmmist fold. However, with few exceptione, they
are not true trade-union leaders: they are more interested in the
Booialist Party and in their own political fortunes then in the welfare
of the membership. Their umions are only slightly more demooratic in
organization end practice than are the Commmmist-led unions. The Comumists
provide the militancy and the acumen that are needed, and undeniably do
bring benefits to the rank and file, but they prostitute their unions to
the ends of the Commmist Party and the Soviet Union.
Perhaps the chief hope for the emergenoe of the leadership needed
lies in the growing awareness among the Japanese of the nature of the
Commmamist Party. Mr. Killen fears, however, that the present situation
may react to the advantage of the Comnmist Party in that it constitutes
the denial by B authority of basic rights deemed imperative in building
free institutions in Japan, thereby disorediting our professed polioy to
"democratize" the nation.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
ACTION
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
T+
No. 573
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, September 1, 1948.
D/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Word List of Labor Terminology.
SEF I0 1948 BS
894.504/9-148
INTERNATIDNAL LABOR, DEBIAL
300
AID HALTH AFFAIRS-ILN
11.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose five
C
copies of the second edition of Word List of Labor Terminology
(English-Japanese) 1948 which has been prepared by the Labor
Division of the Economic and Scientific Section of this Headquarters.
The list is being given wide distribution in an effort to clarify
the language used in connection with the labor movement in Japan.
The Department's attention is invited to the detailed explanation
given to the following six basic labor terms which when translated
from English into Japanese tend to confuse rather than explain the
meaning: local union; management council; collective bargaining;
ACTIC
grievance machinery; conciliation, mediation, and arbitration; and
closed shop.
COP
TU:
The list should be helpful to both the Occupation and the
FE
Japanese in standardizing the phraseology of labor affairs and will
undoubtedly assist in overcoming many of the difficulties occasioned
by language.
AM 10 30
OFD
ACI NC
WC/M
198 SEP 61
LABOR
COM(
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CS/V
RECEIVED
DC/L
18
I with orng
894.504/9
Enclosure:
1. 5 Copies of Word List of
Labor Terminology (English-
Japanese) 1948.
SEP 14 1948
Original and hectograph to the Department.
FILED
850.4
WHLawrenceJr/eg
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to
September 1, 1948, fré
the Political Adviser for
on the subject:"Word Idst 
Terminology."
WORD LIST OF LABOR
TERMINOLOGY
2nd
dition
(English-Japanese)
GENERAL HEADGUARTERS
SUPREME COMMDER FOR THE ALLIED PONERS
Economic and Scientific Section
Tokyo 1948

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
Note: 3everal English terms heve commonly been translated into Japanese expressions
which confuse rather than explain the meaning. A fuller explanation, therefore, is
necessary of the most important of these terms.
Local union Ln America this is a body, usually composed of workers in a single fac-
tory or office, whose members formulate policy in frequent meetings. Japanese union
structure is often more complicated. The members of various "tani kumiai" may meet
frequently at the factory and elect delegates to a "shibu kumiai", composed of work-
ers in saveral factories, which is the pclicy-making body but which holds a full
membership meeting only once a year. Thus, monthly'meetings and policy-making,
which are both carried on in an American local union, may be separated in Japan. So
the term "local union" is sometimes translated as "tani kumiai" and sometimes as
"shibu kumiai". A third torm, "chiho kumiai", which is also used. may refer to the
"shibu kumiai," or to a still broader district oreanization.
Management council The "keiei kyogi kai" is an institution peculiar to Japan, where-
in thé company and the union try to settle all kinds of labor problems, big and
small, and also consider production problems. It has some points in common with the
"factory committees" found in many European countries. In America, particularly du-
ring the War, "Labor-Managoment Committees" were cet up in some factories, but these
were advisory bodies on production mattcrs only. There are similar Joint Product-
ion Committees" in England. In America big lubor problems are handled instoad by'
collective bargaining between the union's "negotiating comhittee" and the company.
and small problems by the "griovance committce." In'short, there are vurious bodies
which might be translated the same way into Jupanese, but shich have different funo-
tions.
Collective bargcining' This is a mo thod of settling differoncos betweon labor and
managoment peacefully, by negotinting compromises. It applios mainly to the discus-
sions preceding the signing of a contract, but the negotiation of grievances is also
considerod by somo as collective bargaining. Th bargaining is conducted by a small
committee on behalf of all the mombers. However, many Japanese have misundorstood
tho turm "collcctive" to meen thut everyone takes part in the negotiations. The idea
of "bargaining" is not well undorstood cither. Japaneso unionists often say: "We
try to sottlo problems in the manugement council, but if that fails, wo go into col-
lective bargaining." what thoy mean is that thoy then cenne bargaining, and begin
dispute tactics.
Gricvance machinery This'is usod to sottlc simll issues, involving a single worker
or small group of workers, urising aftor the contract is signed. It should not bo
used to settle wages, the closed shop, or other big issues affecting all the workers;
these shoulu be sottlod beforo the contract is signed, by collective bargaining, a
strike, or the Labor Rolations Committec. The standard but misleading tranalation
of grievance machinery, "funso shori kikan", lhas holped give Japanose employers and
unions the'falso impression that it is intended to provide compulsory arbitration of
all issues, big and small. A more accurate translation would be "kujo shori kikan"
or "igi noshitato totsuzuki". but these torms are not familiar to newspapor readers.
Conciliation, modiation, and arbitration Those throe words have distinct meanings.
The conciliator trics to bring tho two disputing partios togethor without proposing
any terms of sottlement. Tho modiator proposes torms, but they are not binding.
The arbitrator's proposals are binding. In Japan these throe tochniques have not
been differentiated, and so there were no corresponding words in Japáneso. Three
words, "Assen", "chotei" and "chusai" have been arbitrarily selected, but they are
not self-explantory to the Japanese and so are often confusod by interpreters.
Closed shop The Japanese have adoptod the English 'oxpression. but they apply it to
the union shop. Undor the true closed shop systom. the employer can Kire only
workors who already belong to the union. Under the union shop system, the omployer
can hiro anyono he wants. but the net omployees must lator join the union. Most
Japanese contracts are called closed shop contracts, but they are roally union shop
contracts.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.94)
(A)
Ability tost, montal tost
: Soinō Kensa
性能檢查
8
Absonteeism, tho rate of
: Kekkin ritsu
钦勤率
8
Abuse tho rights
: Konri ranyō
梅利滥用
Accopt (a report). to
: Jurisuru (hōkokuwo)
8
受理する(報告と)
Accidont componsation
: Saigai hoshō
失害補償
8
Accomplish by forco
: Bōryoku nitc nasu
暴力にて為寸
4ccrodited members
: Shinninjyō shoyū kaiin
信任状所有会員
Adjourn
: Hcikai
行会
Administration, union
: Kanri, Kumiai
管理，組合
Adopt (Agrce) to
Saitaku suru
8
採次する
Advisc, to
Jyogon suru
助言する
Advisory organ
: Shimon kikan
諮問機阅
Affiliate. to
Kamei suru
加盟寸る
4ffiliatod union
Kamoi kumini
加盟組合
Affidavit
: Sunscisho
宣誓書
Afford wagos, to
: Chingin wo atacru
金をへる
貝
igonda
: Giji shidai
議事次才
ir conditioning
Kūki kensa
空氣檢查
Alternative delegatc
: Dairi daigiin
代理代議員
Amendment
: Shūsci
修正
Americ n Fedcration of Labor: Boikoku Rōdō Sōdōmoi
米國勞做總同盟
(∴FL)
Amicable sottlement
: Kōitcki kaiketsu
好意的解決
Annual fue
: Nen kaihi
年会費
innual vage guarentoed
: Hoshō nongaku chingin sei
保論年額貨金制
inti-closed shop las
: Kurōzudo shoppu kinshi hō
クローズド、ショソプ
禁止法
Appeal
: Kōso, teiso
控許，提訴
Appeal Board of accident
: Rodōsha saigai hoshó shinsa
勞働者兴害補償
compensation
: iinkai
審查委員会
pplication blank
: Mōshikomisho
申込書
求職者面会
pplication intorview
: Kyūshokusha menkei
.pply, to
: Mōshikomu
申込打
.pproval
: Shōnin
承認
Apprentice
Totei
徒弟
∴ptitude test
Tekisei kensa
適性检查
irbitretion
Chūsai
仲裁
(1)

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.94)
: Chūsaisha
Arbitrator or umpire
未纳
Linō
Arrears, in
8
会議
Assembly
: Knigi
8
賦課金
Assessmont
: Fukakin
公定價二て
At officiul prices
: Kōteika nite
Atmospheric tompera ture
: Kion
会計檢查.
Auditing
: Kaikei kensa
会計検查委員
Auditing Comaittee
: Kaikei kensa iin
権威，当局
Authority
: Keni, tōkyoku
認可
Authorization
: Ninka
委任する
Authorize, to
: Inin suru
授權代理人
Authorized agont
: Jukon dcirinin
自治
Jichi
Autonomy
自治勞働組合
Autonomous labor union
 Jichi rōdō kumiui
Award
: Suitci. s ikotsu
裁定，裁決
(B)
Back door contract
: Uraguchi kciyaku
裏口契約
溯及的給
: okyütcki kyūyo
Back puy retroactivo
不完全資格組合員
Bad standing, membors in
: Tukanzon shikaku kumiaiin
不完全資格組合
Bad stunding, union in
: Fukanzen shikaku kumiai
投票用紙
: Tōhyō yōshi
Ballot
禁止(勞働者)
Ban (worker's)
: Kinshi (rōdōsha)
交抄
: Kōshō
Barge in
基礎(基木)産業
: Kiso (kihon) sangyō
Basic industry
ブラック、リスト
 Burakku risuto
Black list
樣式記入
: Yōshiki, kinyū
Blank, filling
保證金
: Hostakin
Bond
保證亡北左役員
: Hosho sarctu yakuin
Bondod officor
誠实
: Seijitsu
Bona fido
評議員會，理事会
Board of trustess, dircctors: Hyogiinkai,rijikai,
managors
: Shōyo
Bonus
下買同盟
: Boikotto (Fubai dómci)
Boycott
出張所（職業安定
: Shutohojo(Shokugyō antuijo)
Brunch Orfice (Employmont
Socurity Office)
8
所)
8
：支部组合
Shibu kumiai
Branch Union
(2)

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.95)
契约建及
Keiyaku ihan
Breach of contract
8
豫
Yosan
Budget
8:
職場寄り合
 Shokuba yoriai
Bull session
告知板，揭示极
: Kokucniban, Keijiban
Bulletin board
3
局
Bureau
Kyoku
議事，職務
Giji, Shokumu
susiness.
組合業務代理人
Kumiai zyōmu dairinin
Business·agent
(Jōnin shoki)
(常仕書記)
細則
Saikoku
By law
(C)
静肅を命ずる
Seishuku wo meizuru
Call (Speaker to order)
問会を宣言ずる
Kaikai wo sengen suru
Call the meeting to order
求職者呼出し
Kyüshokusha yobidashi
Call in of job applicant
呼出し貨金
Yobidashi chingin
Call pay
運動
Undō
Campaign
生產能力
Seisan nōryoku
Capacity to produc
成就する
Jōjusuru
Carry(come) into effect
日信勞働
Hiyatoi rōdo
Casual or day labor
日傭勞働者紹介所
Hiyatoi rōdōsha shokaijo
Casual(day) labor exchanges
党派视密会
Tōha himitsukai
Caucus
豫選会
Yosenkai
Caucus, primary
製造業調查
Seizōgyō chōsa
Census of manufacture
議長，会長四席
Cichō, Kaichō no seki
Chair, the
加盟許可證
Kamei kyokashō
Charter
抗議者
Kōgisha
Challenger
告發する
Kokuhatsu suru
Charge, to bring
組合費天引
Kumiaihi tombiki
Check-off of union dues
職場委員長
Shokuba iinchō
Chief steward
書記長
Shoki chō
Chief secretary
求職の迴付
Kyüshoku no kaifu
Circulation of job orders
制限，束縛
Seigen, Sokubaku
Circumscription
公尺權
Kōmin ken
Civil right
明示する
Meiji suru
Clarify
職務分類制
Shokumu bunrui sēi
Classification system
清梯(掃除)時间
Seisójikan, Sōji jikan
Clean-up time
清潔
Seiketsu
Cleanliness
Shoki
Clerk
(3)

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.93)
Close debate
Senketsu tōgi
先決討議
Closed meeting
Hikökai (himi tsu) kaigi
非公用（秘密）
Close nominations, to
Shimeiken(suisen) wo owaru
指名桩(推薦)它終る
Close polls, to
Tonyō wo owaru
投票を終る
Closed shop
Kurōzudo Shoppu(Kumiai kojō)
クローズド、シヨップ
(综合工場)
Collective bargaining
Dantai kōshō
国体交埗
Collective agreemont
Dantai kyōyaku
團体協約
Commit(motion), to
Iin futaku to suru
委員附記とする
Committee
Iinkai
Special Committee
Tokubetsu iinkai
特别委员会
Standing Committoe
Jōnin iinkai
常仕委員会
Communist party
Kyōsanto
共産党
Company store
Kaisha keiei baiten
会社経營賣店
Conpany town
Kaisha no macni
会社の町
Company union
Goyō kumiai
御用組合
Competitive rate
Kyōsōteki ritsu
競爭的率
Compronise
Dakyō
一妥協
Consent
Snōdaku, dōi
承諾，同意
Conciliation
Asson
幹旋
Condition (labor)
Jōken (Rodō)
條件(勞働)
Conditionally approved
Jōkentsuki shōnin
條件付承認
Conduct (public nueting)
Shusai suru
主催する
Confirmation, affirmation
Shōnin, ninka
承認，認可
Consideration of a question
Mondui no tōgi
问題の討議
Comsumer's cooperation
Shōhisha kyōdō kumiai
消费者協同組合
Comsumer's union
Shōnisha kumiai
消费者组合
Contempt of court
Hōtei bujoku zai
法廷侮辱罪
Cons ti tuti on
Kiyaku
规约
Contract clause
Keiyaku jōkō
契約條頂
Contract for labor
Rōdó keiyaku
勞倒美約
Contract, union
Rōdō kyōyaku
勞助協约
Cooling-off period
: Chinsei kikan
鎭靜期间
Copy
Utsushi
寫
Correspondence course
:Tsūsnin kōza
通信講座
Corresponding secretary
: Tsūshin gakari
通信係
Cost of living
 Seikatsuhi
生活费
Cost of production
 Seisanhi
生產黄
(4)

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.93)
：職案別组合
Shokugyō betsu kumiai
Craft union
委仕状
Ininjō
Credentials
便歷書
Rirekisho
Curriculum vitae
(a personal history)
(D)
暗礁に乗りよげる
An.shō ni noriageru
Dead looked
討論
Töron
Debate
欽員宣言
Kctsuin sangen
Declaration of vacancy
討論仁凡礼儀よ<
Tōron nimo reigi yoku
Decorum in debate
防衛资金
Dofense fund
8
Bōei shikin
所有權保護
Shoyūken hogo
Defense of property:
延期する，猶豫する
Enkisuru, yūyo suru
Defor (sction)
用語の定義
Yōgo no teigi
Definition of torn
代表，代議單
Daiiyo, Duigiin
Delegate
民主党
Minshu tō
Deaocratic party
尺主的手續
Minshutoki totsuzuxi
Democratic procodure
部
Bu
Department
不景氣
Fukeiki
Dopression
勞働法》改惡
Rōdāhā no kaiaku
Dotrimental revision of the:
Labor Law
職業名稱辞典
Shokugyō mcishō jiton
Dictionary of occupational
titles
愚國愚國動議
Guzuguzu shita dōgi
Dilatory motion
經營者二よる直接募案
Keieisha ni yoru cnokusetsu
Direct recruitment by em-
boshū
ployer
理事（局長）
Ri ji (Fyokuchō)
Directors
献首，解雇
Kakushu (Maiko)
Discharge
委員会を解散する
Iinkai wo kaisan suru
Disonarge a committeo
懲成，规律
Discipline
Chōkai, Kiritsu
懲戒行為
Chōkai kōi
Disciplinary uction
所罰的解雇
Shobatsuteki kaiko
Disciplinary dismissal
解釈の相逢
Kaishaku no söi
Discrepancies of interpretu
tion
差别的雇浦條件
Sabutsuteki koyō jōken
Discriminatory hiring re-
quirament
差别的雇偏
Sabetsutoki koyō
Discrimination in employ-
.3
ment
差别待遇
Sabetsu taigū
Discrimination
解准(豫告)
Kaiko (Yokaku)
Dismissal(notice)
解雀子當
Dismissal pay (sevorance
Kaiko teats
pay)
(5)

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.93)
Dispute
Sōgi, funsō
冬張委员会
Dispute Comnittee
Sōgi Iinkai
周知(宣布)
Shūchi (sempu)
Dissemination
團体玄解散寸る
Dissolve an organization
Dantai wo kaisan suru
地方協議会
Chihō kyōgikai
District Council
分散，脫線
Divergonce
Bunsan, dassen
分裂之せて征服する
Divide and conquer
3unretsu sas ete seifukusuru
(Bunchi seigaku)
(分政策)
裁決方法（分離）：可
Saikotsu hōhō (bunri ni yoru)
Division of House
遂條討議
Division of the question
Chikujō tōgi
家事使用人
Ka ji shiyōnin
vomestic worker
寄宿合
Dormitory
Kishukusha
大改正
Drastic revision
Dai kaisei
組合費
Dues
Kumici ni
義務，任務
Duty
Gimu, nimmu
(E)
经濟的自由主義
Keizait ki jiyū shugi
ccomomic liboralism
经济保障
Keizai hoshō
Econonic security
教育委員会
Education Co.amittee
Kyöiku iinkai
有效
Yūkō
Effectiveness
能率の格付(評價)
Efficioncy rating
Mōritsu no kakuzuke (ayāka)
性能检查(能率检查)
Seino konse (Nöritsu kens)
Efficiency tost
除名する，立退如
Eject
Jomeisuru, tacninokaseru
選挙
Eections
benkyo
選挙委員會
Election Committee
Senkyo iinkai
選举氏
Electorate
benkyomin
资格ある
Migible
S.ikaku aru
非常時排
Hijōji barai
Emorgency paymont
被傭者，從業買
Hiyāsna, jūgyōin
Employee
被儒者
Employed person
Hiyōsha
雇主，使用者
Yatoinushi, shiyōsna
Employer
職業紹介所
Shokugyō shākai jo
Employment oxchange
職業安定證问員会
Shokugyō antei shimon iinkai
Employment sucuri ty
Advisory Committee
職業安定法
Shokugyō antei hō
Employment Security Law
職業安定制度
Employment sccurity systcm
Shokugyō antei scido
実施する
Enforce
Jisshi suru
(δ)

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.94)
1. 列考，细目
Rekkyo, saimoku
Enumeration
收入的均一化
Equalization of income
Snūnyū no kini tsuka
Dōitsu rōdō ni taisuru dōi-同一劳働=对する
Equal pay for equal work
同一货金
tsu chingin
Onaji shikaku de kōshō suru 同资格で交抄する
Equal terms, negotiute on
義務の鬼除
Gimu no menjo
Excuse from duty
執行幹部
Shikkō kambu
Executive
執行委員会
Shikkō iinkai
Executive Board
Shokuau gara(Shokken ni yori: 職務板(職權:f))
Ex officio
黄用
Hiyō
Expenditures
有効期间の满期終了
Yūkō kikan no manki shüryō
Expiration of tne validity
term
補償打切り
dosnā uchikiri
Expiry compensation
除名
Jomei
Expulsion
削除する
Sakujo suru
Expunge
(F)
実情調查委員会
Jitsujō cnōsa iinkai
Fact Finding Board
徒党
To tō
Faction
要素分析法
Yōso bunseki hō
Factor analysis systen
零件比较法
Yōken hikaku hō
Factor comparison system
工場法
Kōjō hō
Factory Act
極束委員会
Kyokutō iinkai
Far Eastern Commission
帰鄉旅费
Kikyō ryohi
Fare for returning home
情定
Jōjitsu
Favoritism
有料職業紹介所
Yūryō shokugyō shōkai jo
Fee-cnarging employment ex-
change
書類綴り
Shorui tsuzuri
File
拘束権
Kösoku ken
Final restriction upon
財政委員
Zaisei iin
Financial Conmittee
救，忌同具
Kyūkyū yōgu
First aid accessories
会集，席会员
Kaishū, ressekikaiin
Floor, the
强制游渤
Kyōsei rōdō
Forced labor
樣式
Yōshiki
Form
職長(職工天)
Shokuchā (Sho'tkōchā)
Foreman
協约期间中
Kyōyaku kikanchū
For the life of agreement
2
发谊的代表
Yūgiteki dainyō
Fraternal Delegate
Furaku
フラタ
Fraction
(7)

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.95)
Shokugyō sentaku no jiyū
Freedom of job selection
災害频度
Saigai hindoritsu
Frequenoy of accident
完全雇编
Kanzen koyō
Full employment
完全雇偏計劃
Kanzen koyō keikaku
Full employment program
專任役員
Sennin yakuin
Full time officer
(G)
泰力國戰術
Böryokudan senjitsu
Gangster tactics
談長の槌
Gichō no tsuchi
Gavel
大会，總会
Taikai, sōkai
General meeting
典論
Yoron
General opinion(Public
opinion)
七ネ．スト
Zene suto
General strike
順序，段階
Junjo, dankai
Grade
纷争，苦情，不平
Funsō, kujō, fuhei
Grievance
苦情委員会
Kujō iinkai
Grievance Cormittee
苦情，紛爭記入用紙
Kujō, funsō kinyū yōshi,
Grievance forn of slip
要求用紙
yōkyū yōshi
紛争，苦情處理機淘
Funsō, kujō shori kikan
Grievance machinery
給爭調停
Funsō chōtei
Grievance mediation
紛爭，苦情解決
Funsō, kujō kaiketsu
Grievance settlement
請負工の保障稼高
Ukeoikō no hoshō kasegidaka
Guaranteed earnings to
piece workers
最低保障所得
Saitei hoshō shotoku
Guaranteed minimun earning
戈ルド，同業組合
Girudo, dōgyō kumiai
Guild
(H)
傷痪(不具)求職者
Handicapped(or disabled)
Snōi(fugu) kyūshokusha
applicant
危害，危險
Kigai, kiken
IHazard
有害物
Yugai butsu
Hazardous articles
Kiken sagyō (Kiken na shoku-:尼険作業(危険态
Hazardous employment
職業）
gyō
高氣压
High atomospheric pressure :
Kōkiatsu
Kyūjin gawa no yōkyū (meisai 求人侧要求
Hiring requirement(or spe- :
(明細書)
gaki)
cification)
組合通でて雇
Kumiai wo tsujite no koyō
Hiring through the union
休日
Kyūjitsu
Holidays
祝祭日
Holidays due to festivals
Shukusai ji tsu
湿度
Humidity
Shitsudo
(8)

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.94)
(1)
ILO (International Labor
Kokusai rödő kikan
etotOrganigatin)
公平石客判者
Impartial umpire
Kóheina shimpansha
妨害
Bōgai
Impedient
楚勵金
Shöreikin
Incentive pay
獎勵货金制度
Shōreiohingin seido
Incentive wage system
臨時黃，雜費
Rinjihi, zappi
Incidental expenses
臨時重要動議
Rinji jūyō dōgi
Incidental main motion
法人設定
Hōjin settei
Incorporation of a society
增產
Zōsan
Increase of production
無作法
Busahō
Indecorua
無期延朝
Muki enki
Indefinite postponement
：起許，告故
Kiso, kokuso
Indictment
個人交渉
Kojin kōshō
Individual bargaining
空内勞働者
Shitsunai rōdōsha
Indoor workers
(Shokugyō shokai jo no) katsudoi(成業紹介所)古動
Industrial service(employ-
ment oxchange)
產業別組合
Sangyōbetsu kumiai
Industrial Union
全產業二
Zensangyo ni
Industry-wide
情報
Information
Jōhō
Kanzen shikaku(Kumiai, kumiai-:完全资格(組合
In good standing(members,
in)
合员)
union)
入会金
Nyūkai kin
Initiation fee
發起者
Initiator
Hokkisha
禁止命令
Injunction
Kinshi meirei
合法的
Gōhōteki
In order
議事上っ質疑
Gijijō no shitsugi
Inquiry, parliamentary
監督制度
Kantoku seido
Inspoction organization
保険給付
Hoken kyūfu
Insurance benefit
区域河配置
Kuiki-kan haichi
Inter-area placement
團結権干涉
Interference with the right
Danketsu kon e no kansho
(Futō na rōdō kankō - Mohōku
(下当在学的慢行
to organize(series of unfain
barei hōsniki
practices - Mohawk Valley
ーモホークラレー
Formula)
方式）
Zantei chingin henka
暫定货金变化
Interim Wage. Changes
中间榨取
Chükan sakushu
Intermediate exploitation
國際組合
Kokusai kumiai
International union
解款学議
Kaishaku sōgi
Interpretation dispute
(combat)
(9)

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.94)
Giji jōtei
Introduction of businoss
强制爱
Kyōsei rōdō
Involuntary servitude
書面
In writing
Shomen
書面によ了協的
Shomen ni yoru kyōyaku
In writing, agreement
n
, application
n
Nōshikomi
n
 grievance
n
n
kujō, funsō
(J)
職務分析
Job analysis
Sholumu buns eki
求職音
Job applicant
Kyūshokusha
求職者記錄
Job application record
Kyūshokusha kiroku
職務分類制
Job classification
Snokunu bunrui sei
職務比較法
Shokunu hikaku hō
Job comparison system
職務說明書
Job description
Shokuau setsumeisho
職務評價
Job evaluation
Shokunu hyōka
求人口
Kyūjin guchi
Job opening
求職二追及調查
Job order follow-up
Kyüshokuguchi no tsuikyū
chōsa
仕事の資格
Job qualification
Shigoto no shikaku
職移豫定表
Shokuau yoteihyō
Job schedule
職務明細書
Job specification
Shokumu meisaigaki
職務の說明
Job statement
Shokumu no setsumei
共同委员会
Joint Board
Kyōdo iinkai
議等錄
Journals, the
Gijiroku
次席の組合買
Junior partner
Jisoki no kumiaiin
管轄格
Jurisdiction
Kankatsu ken
管轄権で
Jurisdiction dispute
Kankatsuken arasoi
(L)
学働行政
Rōdō gyösei
Labor administration
滑勒協的條項，
Rōdō kyōyaku jōkō
Labor agreement clause
旁倒ボス(ダラ)
Rōdō bosu(darakan)
Labor boss
学働收容所
Rōdō shūyōjo
Labor camp
学働爭議
Rōdō sōgi
Labor dispute
学衡力
Ródō ryoku
Labor force
勞倒戰線
Labor front
Rōdó s ens en
労倒者住宅計劃
Rōdösha jūtaku keikaku
Labor Housing Projeot
勞的記昔
Rōdō kisha
Labor journalist
学的辯護士
8
Rōdo bengoshi
Labor lawyer
(10)

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.92)
Rōdō rippō
Labor legislation
Rōdō shijō kuiki
Labor market area
学的市場情報
Rōdō shi jō jōhō
Labor market information
学働者》反驳
Rōdosha no hampaku
Labor rebuttal
劳倒阅係
Rödō kankei
Labor relations
学的问係調壓法
Rōdō kankei chāsei hō
Labor relations adjustment
Act
労働基準法：
Rōdō kijun hō
Labor Standard Law
勞倒供給事業
Rōdō kyōkyī jigyō
Labor supply project
学的供給組合
Rēdā kyākyū kumini
Labor supply union
学的教科書
Rödō kyōkasho
Labor taxt book
(率)
Labor turnover rato
放话
dōnin
Laissez-Faire
临時解定(休職)
Rinji kaiko(kyūsloku)
Lay off
卻下動議
Kyakka dōgi
Lay on the table, motion to
指導的役員
Shidōteki yakuin
Leading officers
赐暇：
Shika
Leave of absence
動議修正許可
Dögi shūsei no kyoka
Leave, to modify a motion
Sayoku(Sawagashiki)
Left wing, Leftist (verofe-
rous in)
法上権利
Hōjō no kenri
Logal right
課税可名（微收る)
Kazei suru(chāshū suru)
Levy, to
Songai ni taisuru sekinin aru: 损害)对才为责任
Liable for damages
Renrakuin(Kōkyō shokugyō en-：过絡(公共
Liaison egent(Public Employ.
teijo no)
定定所刀)
munt Security Office)
近由党
Jiyūtō:
Liberal
Party
dito taru ni ataisuru seika-:人) 生活
Life worthy of a human being
tsu
地方配置
Chihō haichi
Local placement
單位組合
Tani kumiai
Local union
工場汽鎖
Kōjō heisa
Lock out
(M)
相合寅の資格維持
Kumiaiin no shikakuiji
Maintenance of membership
主要動議
Shuyō dōgi
Main motion
多数
Tasū
Majority
多数决
Tasūketsu
Majority vote
有效總人员（学例办)
Yūkō sōjinin(rōdōryoku)
Man power
经学者
Kaieisha
Management
(11)

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.95)
: Keiei kyōgi kai
Management conference
Rōshi kyōgi kai
Joint labor management con-
ference
8
大量生產
Tairyō seisan
Mass production
大农支持
Taishū shiji
Mass support
主たる均约
Shutaru kyōyaku
Master agreement
分娩沐暇
Bumben kyūka
Maternity leave
最大利益
Saidai rieki
Maximum benefit
食事時间
Shokuji jikan
Meal period
健康診斷
Kenkō shindan
Medical examination
調停
Chotéi
Madiation
覺書
Oboegaki
Memorandum
組合員大会
Kumiaiin taikai
Membership meeting
方法研究
Hōhō kenkyū
Methods, study of
深夜業
Shinyagyō
Midnight labor
镰業法
Kōgyō hā
Mining Act
最低貨金率
Saitei chingin ritsu
Minimum wage rates
少数
Shōsu
Minority
少数者投票
Shōsūha tōhyō
Minority vote
誠事錄
Gi jiroku
Minutes of the meeting
雜則
Zassoku
Miscellaneous
司会者
Shikaisha
Moderator
更（動識の)
: Henkō(dōgi no)
Modification(of motion)
道德的拘束権
: Dōtokuteki kosokuken
Moral. Compulsion
月例会議
:Getsurei kaigi
Monthly meeting
2
動誠
: Dōgi
Motion
動作研究
: Dōsa kenkyū
Motion study
双方的義務
Sōhō no gimu
Mutual obligation
(N)
8
全國總同盟
Zenkoku sōdōmei
National Federation
全國本部
Zenkoku hombu
National Headquarter
國家戲入
Kokka sainyū
National Income
3
全國組合
Zenkoku kumini
National Union
交抄
 Kōshō
Negotiation
新物價範圍
Shin bukka hani
Now range of price
名儀貨金
: Meigi chingin
Nominal Wage
候補者指名
: Kōhosha, shimei
Nomination
(12)

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.95)
Mukō tōhyō
Null and void votes
(0)
職務宣誓
Oath of office
Shokumu s ens ei
討議範圍
Tōgi hantai
Object to consideration
發言権古得弓
Hatsugenken wo uru
Obtaining the floor
職業分析
Shokugyō bunseki
Occupational analysis
職業辞引
Shokugyō jibiki
Occupational dictionary
職業病
Shokugyōbyō
Occupational disease
職業病法
Shokugyōbyō hō
Occupational didease law
職業情報
Shokugyō jōhō
Occupational information
職業別質金率
Shokugyōbetsu chingin ritsu
Occupational Wage rate
役勇
Yakuin
Officer
担当役
Officer in charge
Tantō yakuin
公式朗讀者
Kōshiki rōdokusha
Official reader
人民のために，人民による
Of the people, by the peo-
Jimmin no tame ni, jimnin ni
yoru, jimmin no...
民の……
ple, for the people
唯一組合
One and only union
Yuitsu no kumiai
公司
Kōkai
Open to the public
オープン・ショツプ
Öpun shoppu
Open shop
議事手續
Giji tetsuzuki
Order of business
組合組織者
Organizer
Kimiai soshikisha
組織委員会
Soshiki iinkai
Organizing Committee
組織部
Organization Bureau
Soshikibu
现業学倒者
Gengyō ródōsha
Out door workers
非合法
8
:Higōhō
Out of order
残業手当
Zangvo teato
Overtime pay
(P)
8
Yūkyū kyūka
有給休暇
Paid vacations
会議手續
Kaigi tetsuzuki
Parliamentary procedure
麻瘁(大規模)罷業
Mahi(daikibo) higyō
Paralysis strike
会議：參加する
Kaigi ni sanka suru
Participate in a meeting
經營參加
8
Keioi sanka
Participate in management
兼務有志職員
8
Part-time volunteer offici-: Kenmu yūshi shokuin
al
思情主義
Onjō shugi
Patərnalism
週末作業支排
: Shūmatsu sagyō shiharai
Pay for week-end work

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.94)
Shikyū zōka
Pay raise
支给名
Shikyū meibo
Pay rolls
平和條项
Heiwa jōkō
Peace clause
罰金
Bakkin
Penalty
頭割り組合費
Atama wari kumiaihi
Per aapital tax
陳情
Chinjō
Petition
注理休暇
Seiri kyūka
Physiological leave
蓝祝線
Kanshi sen
Picket line
監視通遇證
Kanshi tsūkashō
Picket pass
請風率
Ukeoi ritsu
Piece rate
出來高描飞
Dekidaka barai
Piece work
ピストン.スト
Pisuton sutoraiki
Piston strike
配置
Haichi
Placement
配置手續
Haichi tetsuzuki
Placement process
網领
Köryō
Platform
說明動議
Sctsumei dōgi
Point of information
点数制
Tensi sei
Point system
点数》價值
Tonsū no kachi
Point value
方针，政策
8
Höshin, seisaku
Policy
政策，綱領
8
: Seisuku, kōryō
Policy statement
政治行動.
: Seiji kādō
Political action
政治委員会
: Seiji iinkai
Political Committee
人民戰線
; Jimmin sens en
Popular front
Portal to portal pay
:Mon kara mon e no chingin
(构)间排货金)
(Kðsoku jikan barai)
担当職務
: Tantō shokumu
Position
無期延期
• Mukienki
Postpone indefinitely
前文
: Zombun
Preamble
8
既定点数法
Kitoi tensū. hō
Predetermined weights
優先的組合工場
Yūsenteki kuniai kōjā
Preferential Union Shop
特殊群仁对する
Tokushugun ni taisuru yūsente-
Preferred status for spe-
優先的地位
: ki chii
cial group
8
规定る
: Kitoi suru
Prescribe
時效
: Jikō
Prescription
組合長
: Kumiai cnō
Presidant, union
優先動議
8
 Yūs en dōgi
Previleged motion
(14)

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.95)
豫
Yohō
Previous notification
先决事项勤
Senketsu jikō dōgi
Previous question
優先機(先取権）
Yūs enken(senshu ken)
Priority
試验雇清期间
Shiken koyō kikan (minarai
Probation period
(見習期间)
kikan)
生度力
Seisanryoku
Productivity
生產管理
Seisan kanri
Production control
專问的從業員
Saamonteki jūgyōin
Professional employee
暴利吉貪
Bōri wo musaboru
Profiteuring
利润分配
Rijun bumpai
Profit sharing
オニ次ポイコットの
Prohibition of secondary
Dai niji boikotto no kinshi
禁止
boycott
界級(号給)
Shōkyã
Promotion
趣意書，網領
Shuisho, kōryō
Prospuctus
條项
Jōkō
Provision
所有権保護
Shoyūken no hogo
Protection of property
委仕投票
Inin tōlyō
Proxy voting
公務員
Kōmuin
Public employee
公共職業安定所
Kōkyō shokugy∂antei sho
Public Employment Security
Office
公眾保健部
Kōshū hoken bu
Public health service
公聴会
Kōchōkai
Public hearing
輿論
Yoron
Public opinion
公共職業輔導所
Kōkyō shokugyō hodō sho
Public Vocational Training
Genter
公共事業
Kōkyō jigyō
Public works project
抗同排異(敵立罰
Yōdō haii (teki wo basshi, to-
Punish your enomy and re-
友：幸をちへ♪)
mo ni saiwai wo ataeyo)
ward your friend
購買力
Kōbairyoku
Purchasing power
(Q)
量的
Ryōteki
Quantitative
定数
Teisokusū
Quorum
(R)
一般組合員大眾
Ippan kumiaiin taishu
Rank and file
等级法
Tōkyū hō
Ranking system
実货货金
Jisshitsu chingin
Real Wage
リコール解任制
Rikōru kaininsei
Recall
休憩
Kyūkei
Rec ess
(15)

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.93)
Junō suru
Receive
Shimei suru
Recognize
勧告，拍
Kankoku(suisen)
Recommendation
Boshū suru
Recruit
募寒
Boshū
Recruitment
暮集人
Boshūnin
Recruitment agent
一般投票（總頁投票）
Ippan tōhyō(sōin tōhyō)
Referendum vote
招介手續
Shōkai tetsuzuki
Referral
地区協議会
Chiku kyðgikai
Regional council
登錄
Tōroku
Register
Registration and finanoial
Rōdō kumiai no tōki oyobi zai-:労御胡合っ登己及
财政報告
sei hōkoku
reports of labor union
定期来会
Teiki shūkai
Regular meoting
定期配給经路
Teiki haikyū keiro
Regular ration channel
管轄爭議口統制
Kankatsu sōgi no tōsei
Regulation of jurisdiotio-
nal disputes
復職手数料
: Fukusnoku tesūryō
Reinstatement foe
再会见
: Saikaiken
Reinterview
代表者
: Daihyōsha
Repres entative
及管辖
ction over particular work i katsu
取消少
Torikesu
Rescind
辞職
Jishoku
Resignation
決議
: Ketsugi
Resolution
休養
: Kyūyō
Rest
沐想時间
Kyūkei jikan
Rest period
制裁規定制限
Seisai kitei no seigun
Restriotion on sanction
ストラ传活動制限
Sutorniki kntsudō seigen
Restriction of strike acti-
業
vity
就制限及禁止
Restriction and prohibition: Shugyō seigen oyovi kinshi
on working
休職における年功者の
Kyūshoku ni ckeru nenkōsha no
保持
Retontion of seniority in
hoji
lay-off
退職手当
Taishoku teate
Retirement allowance
减入
Sainyū
Revenue
提起寸了(動成と)
Teikisuru(dogi wo)
Rise (motion), to
支給基準の引し
Shikyū ki jun no hikiago
Rising of pay standard
指名投票
Shimei tōhyō
Roll call vote
名等(学倒者》)
: Meibo(Rōdosha no)
Roster (workerst)
(16)

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.93)
: Rinbansei
Rotation
惩談会
Round table conference
Kondan kai
: Mekura ban
Rubber stamp
次我投索
: Kessen tōhyō
Runorf eleotion
地方自治團体
Chihō jichi dantai
Rural comnittee
(s)
サバタージ，急業
Sabotāji, taigyō
Sabotage
安全之保健
Anzen to hoken
Safety and health
安全活
I Anzen gakari
Safety'man
安全運動
: Anzen undō
Safety movement, campaign
安全計劃
Anzən keikaku
Safety program
隆给
: Hōkyū
Salary
资金率
Chingin ritsu
Scale of pay
範圍
Han i
Scope
脱退寸了
Dattai suru
Secede, to
脱退
Dattai
Secession
動誠想成了己
Dögi ni sanseisuru
Second the motion
少壮指導者
Shōsō shidösha
Seoondary leadership
從屈彭議
Jūzoku dōgi
Secondary motions
秘密投票
Himitsu tōhyō
Secret ballot
記名祕密抄票
Kimei himitsu tōhyō
Secret written ballot vote
人選（求藏者”）
Jins en(Kyūshokusha no)
Seleotion(of applicant for
job)
自己記入(求職)
Jiko kinyū(Kyūshoku no)
Self application(for em-
ployment)
年功権，古参格
Nenkō ken, kosan ken
Seniority
年巧规定
Nenkō kitei
Seniority provision
年功制度，吉参制度
Nenkō seido, kosan seido
Seniority rule
勤績洽增額
Kinzoku kyūyo zōgaku
Seniority pay raise
整理妄莉
Seiri iin
Sergeant at arms
逐次的考察
Chikujiteki kōsatsu
Seriatin consideration
真效石反对
Shinkanna hantai
Serious clash
災害强度率
Saigai kyōdo ritsu
Severity of. accident
会期
Kaiki
Session
交替作業
Kótai sagyō
Shift
商店法
Shōten hō
Shop Act
 Kurōzudo shoppu(Kumiai kōjā)
Shop, closed
(17)

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.95)
Shokuba iinkai
Shop chairman, deputy,
Shokuba iin
stoward
職场委
Shokuba iin seido
Shop steward system
病氣休暇
Byōki kyūka
Sick leave
座り込みストライキ
Sit down strike
Suwarikomi sutoraiki
社会保安局
Shakai hoan kyoku
Social security board
社会党
Socialist Party
Shakai to
社会的身分(地位)
Shakai teki mibun(ohii)
Social status
單一交渉
Tanitsu kōshō
Sole bargaining
一致團結(逵帶)
Itohi danketsu(rentai)
Solidarity
奴隸学街
Dorei rōdō
Slave labor
スライド制
Sliding scale
Suraido sei
怠業
Soldiering
Taigyō
bupīdo appu(Nōritsu zōshin)
スピード・アンで
(能率增進)
Speed up
散發的ス卜
Sporadic strike
Sampatsuteki suto
常任委員
Jōnin iin
Standing Committee
議事規則
Standing rules
Gi ji kisoku
統計
Tōkei
Statistics
现状
Status quo
Gen jō
ストロー、バフ
(诚長代理)
Sutorō bosu(Shokuohō dairi)
Straw boss
控取劳倒
Sakushu rōdō
Sweat shop labor
ストラキ(同盟罷業)
Sutoraiki(domei higyō)
Strike
罷業手当基金
Higyō teate kikin
Strike benefit fund
ストライキ有所
Strike kitchen
Sutoraiki makanaijo
ストライキ会議
Sutoraiki kaigi
Strike meeting
ストライキ破リ
Strike breaker(scab, fink)
Sutoraiki yaburi
ストライキをすると云うて
Strike, threaten to
Sutoraiki wo suru to itte obi-
かす
yakasu
ストライキ投票
Sutoraiki tōnyō
Strike vote
提出する
Submit
Teishutsu suru
標準以下求職
Substandard job orders
Hyōjun ika kyūshoku
重大且国後乙得当
Substantial und irreparable, Jūdai katsu kaifuku shiezaru
传害
injury
shōgai
出訴，起訴，告訴
Shusso, kīso, kokuso
Sue
充分な必要品の供
Jūbunna nitsuyōhin no kyōkyū
Sufficient supply of nece-
ssities(goods)
(18)

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.95)
Kensaku
Buggestion
献菜箱
Kensaku bako(toshobako)
Buggestion box
顶害賠償言
Songai baishō soshō
Suits for damages
监督，管理者
Kantoku, Kanrisha
Superior
補足
Hosoku
Supplement
踏查(調查)
Tōsa(Chōsa)
Survoy
停止する
Teishi suru
Suspond
出勤停止
Shukkin teishi
Suspension
同情ストラ
Dōjō sutoraiki
Sympathy strike
(T)
休憩する
Kyūkei súru
Take a recess
遲刻
Chikoku
Tardiness
立会人(選挙の)
Tachiainin (Senkyo no)
Teller
入揭條件
Nyūjō jōken
Terms of admission
肯效期间
Yūkō kikan
Terms of validity
時间研究(調查)
Jikan kenkyū(c hōsa)
Time s tudy
時间研究委員会
Jikan kenkyü iinkai
Time study committee
労働組合主義
Rōdō kumiai shugi
Trade-unionism
学働組合责任
Rōdō kumiai sekinin
Trade union responsibility
轉勤力ード
Tenkin kādo
Transfer Card
轉勤率
Tenkin ritsu
Transfer rates
出张旅费及
Shuochō ryohi oyobi shigai
市外作景
Travel pay and out of town
sagyō
work
出納保，会計你
Sui tō gakari
Treasurer
咨问委员会
Shimon iinkai
Trial Board
組合員證问
Kumiaiin shimon
Trial of members
諮问子續
Shimon tetsuzuki
Trial procedure
保管人（許議員）
Hokannin(hyōgiin)
Trustees
(U)
意见一致
Iken itchi
Unanimity of views
滿場一致四後成
anjo itchi no sansei
Unanimous approval
言討誠之得之弓勒議
Tōgishiezaru dōgi
Undebatable motions
下公正(不当）
Fukōs ei(futō)
Unfair
不当学動惯行
Futō rōdō kankā
Unfair labor practice
審該末了事頂
Shingi miryō jikō
Unfinished business
失業者
Shitsugyōsha
Unemployed person
(19)

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.92)
I Shitsugyo toate
loymant allowance
Kumiai kishō
Union button
Kumiai sōdan
Union counselling
組合業務
Kumiai gyōmu
Union job
組合いッナル
Kumiai rotteru
Union label
組合指導者
Kumini shidōsha
Union leader
組合承認
Union recognition
Kumiai shōnin
契利
证合保
Kumiai noshō keiynku
Union security contract
ユニオンショップ
Yunion shoppu(kumiai kōjō)
(合工)
Union shop
納合加盟之一下
Kumiai kamsi kādo
Union shop curd
雄合地位
Kumiai no chii
Union status
和合機構
Kumini kikō
Union structure
國依活動
Dantai katsudō
United activity
统一戰線（共同戰纲)
Tói tsu s ens en(kyödō s uns en)
United front
永組織工場
Misoshiki kōjō
Unorganized shop
永祖織学倒者
Misoshiki rodosha
Unorganized workers
(v)
空库補充
Kūs oki hojū
Vacancies in offices, fill
in
有給休暇
Yūkyū kyūku
Vacation witn pay
有效期间
Yūko kikan
Validity term
换氣
Kanki
Ventilation
確定(職業配道)
Kakutəi(shokugyō haichi no)
Verification(of job place-
ment)
Fukuknichō(fukugichō, fukuku-1 副(長，
Vice President
副組合長)
miaichō)
貨金物價间
Chingin bukka kan no aku jun-:
Vicious circle between
kan
wages and prices
職菜
言談
Shokugyō sōdan
Vocational counselling
FA
業
Shokugyō hedo
Vocational guidance
training
n
hodō
口頭、投票
Kōtō tōnyō
Voice vote
有志組合職试
Yūshi kumiai shokuin
Volunteer union staff mem-
bers
投索
Vote
Tōhyō
言·
...by voice
Hatsugan ...
学子
Kyoshu ...
...by show of hands
Kiritau...
托立…
...by rising
Tōhyōshi
...by ballot
Shimei ...
名
...by yous and nays
(roll call)
Yübin ...
...by mail
(20)

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.94)
(w)
Chingin
Chingin chösei höshiki
jage adjustment plan
能率
Nöritsu ohingin
Wege on effiolenoy
Sekai rōdo kumiai remmei
W.F.T.U.(Worlds Federation
of Trade Unions)
欣金支給
Chingin shikyū matawa ahōshū
Wage payment or collection
信金，世间
Chingin, seken ippan no
Wage, prevailing
货金物價淘流
Chingin-bukka kankei
Wage-price relationship
資金條孤
Chingin jōkō
Wage provisions
手待時间
Temachi jikan
Waiting time
職場放棄
Shokuba hōki
Walk out
警告
Keikoku
Warning
小猫爭議
Yamaneko sögi
Wild oat strike
退職クード
Taishoku Kado
Withdrawal card
動誠微同
Dōgi tokkai
Withdraw a motion
組合援的婦人会
Kumiai enjo fujinkai
Woman's auxiliary
產業婦人
Sangyō fujin
Woman in industry
作業充当
Sagyō jūto
Work assignment
一日学的時间，
: Ichinichi rōdō jikan, isshū
Work day, work week
一週旁的時間
: rōdō jikan
作業能率
Sagyō nōritsu
Work efficienoy
作業許可
: Sagyō kyoka
Work permit
救消事業計劃
: Kyūsai jigyō keikaku
Work relief projeot
仕事分割計劃
Shigoto bunkatsu keikaku
Work sharing plan
作業环境
Sagyō kankyō
Working environment
旁的音受害補償
Rōdōsha saigai hoshō
Workmen's compensation
作業場
Sagyōjō
Workshops
(Y)
黄大笑的
Kōken keiyaku
Yellow dog contract
(21)

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.95)
Form DS-802
(7-2-46)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STADIH OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
NOR.HEAST ASIAN AFFNRS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
PLAIN
7
Rec'd September 20, 1948
Action: FB
10:43 8.11.
Info :
P
0
ec o
SAM
FROM:
MoBcoW
EUR
OLI
TO:
Secretary of State
CIA
 State
DCL
NO:
2050, September 20
ITP
OFD
PRAVDA September 20 carries one column Washingto: Tass
POS
despatcn quoting Panyushkins's statement at Sept mber 1
PA
session of PEC concerning MacArthur's alleged v.olation
DCR
Potedam agreement and summarizing his conclusi'n that
FEC accept resolution proposing that MacArthur revoke
894.504/9-2048
directive of July 22 and Japanese decree of Ji ly 31
banning strikes by government employees.
1 fcr Ged 1.
Department pass Tokyo ), Paris 361
S: I H
LMH: MEK
NOTE: Relayed o Par1s an! Tokyo 9/20/ 8 10: 3 a.m. H
SIAIE
AIICE
469
2
SEP 27 1948
FILED
PLAIN
HH
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.96)
Ac/R
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum ofConversation
TELEPHONE
DATE: September 20, 1948
SUBJECT:
Japanese Employment Abroad
894.504/9-2048
PARTiciPANTS: r. Tswen-ling Tsui, Counsellor, Chinese Embassy
O - r. J. rranklin Ray, Jr.
12:15 P. . and 5:15 F. . on September 17, 1948
COPIES TO:
NA
A- hir. Allison
0 - i.r. Ray
FOS/J - r. Schuler
O - Files
0
- i.r. Claxton
FEC - Lr. Blakeslee
ED
- L.r. Whitman
1-1408
ir. Tsui called with reference to a cable received by his Embassy on
September 14, 1943 from Nanking. This cable stated that the Chinese Mssion
at Tokyo hau submitted, on instructions from Nanking, a request to SCAP for
approval and assistance in arranging for the employment of 20 Japanese tech-
nicians by the kwangtang Frovincial government at Couton, to re-install a
paper mill owned by the Provincial government which had been looted by the
Japanese and later restituted to China.
This cable further reported, accoroing to r. Tsui, that SCAP had in-
CS/A
dicated no objection to the proposed employment, but had asked for Washington
epprovel. The Embassy hed therefore been instructed to request the Department
to give its approval to SCAP for the employment of these Japanese nationals
in China.
(The SCeP recuest for Washington approval vihich was referred to in the
Chinese cable can be identified as Ci I. 1572 of September 9, which was
answered by the Army, after informel consultation with the Department, in
C. OUT 89065 of September 11, 1948. This outgoing message advised SCAP that
the Chinese request in question "is matter for your administrative discretion",
and informed SCAF that the subject had previously been ciscussed with our
Embassy at Nanking).
The writer promised to look into the matter and aavise lir. Tsui of his
findings.
w88
SEP 27 1948
Le
After
FILED
RONFIDENDAL
3029

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
After consultetion with NA (ir. Allison), the writer called Mr. Tsui
back to inform him that the Depertment had no objection to the granting of
the Chinese request by SCAP, on detailed terms acceptable to SCAP, and that
SCAP had been so informed. The Depertment was surprised, however, at the
apparent discrepancy between the Chinese position with reference to this re-
quest and the general position heretofore taken by the Chinese delegation to
the Far Eastern Commission in discussions of policy for travel of Japanese
nationals for legitimate commercial or cultural purposes. In such discussions,
the Chinese delegation had shown a disposition to restrict and limit the
approval of such travel more than was considered necessary or desirable by
the U. S. delegation.
The writer asked Mr. Tsui whether the current request for American co-
operetion in arranging for this travel end employment signified a change in
the previous attitude of the Chinese government towards the travel of Japanose.
Such a change, it was indicated, would be welcomed by the Department. Mr. Tsui
replied that he was not personally prepared to comment, but that he would re-
port this enquiry to Dr. Tan and the Ambassador. He stated that his instruc-
tions from Nanking did not indicate whether theimmediate request, originating
with officials interested in the particular employment sought, had been
coordinated with those officers concerned with the formulation of Chinese
government policy on matters before the FEC. r. Tsui stated that he personally
saw the connection and would seek a review of the matter.
hir. Tsui was then told that we would be reluctant to comment openly in
meetings of the Commission on the apparent discrepancy in Chinese attitudes
to whichhis attention had been called, and trusted that this would not be
made necessary by positions taken in the future by the Chinese delegation.
The writer expressec the hope that upon due consideration, the Chinese dele-
getion to the FEC would find it possible to join the U. S. delegation in
supporting policies which would permit the travel abroad of Japanese for
worthy and legitimate purposes without nnnecessary and burdeneome restrictions,
and asked that the Department be informed in due course of the results of
Lr. Tsui's discussions with Dr. Tan and the Ambassador.
SONTNUENTTAL
3029
O:FJRay,Jr:mwc

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
bffice Memoyandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: October 12, 1948
TO
FROM : J. T. Ray, Jr.
SUBJECT:
Labor Policy in Japan
The substance of the State position set forth in the
attached memo was covered piecemeal during the seven-hour
State-Labor-Army conference on October 7 in connection with
Wan 90494
relevant sections of the labor policy radio to SCAP. The
Army (1) disagreed with the State position, but (2) agreed
(80ct48)
that public statement of any U. S. position should be avoided,
894.504
and (3) accepted language in the radio which advised SCAp to
shape the pending Japanese legislation in terms which would
conform with the unstated State Department interpretation of
FEC O45/5, although for general U.S. policy reasons rather
than by reason of acceptance of the legal interpretation
that FEC O45/5 does apply to Japanese Government workers.
It is therefore not recommended that the attached state-
ment be communicated as such to the Army until and unless it
10-548
becomes necessary after SCAp replies to our outgoing radio.
Attachment
O:JFRay,Jr.: jcd
10/12/48
SECRET
3412(A)

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.84)
Oc
① nn. Nienill (ta+)
() M Clax(AA)
③ Mu. Ray
Do we need
 com meunicate
thes to te army?
S

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
ces.
TO
Mr. Saltzman
DATE: October 5, 1948
FROM:
J. F. Ray, Jr.
SUBJECT:
Applicability of FEC O45/5 to Japanese Government Workers
In reply to Mr. Draper's question, the Department regards the FEO policy
decision "Principles for Japanese Trade Unions" (FEC-O45/5) as generally
applicable to organizations of government employees, subject to such qualifica-
tions and limitations as arise from the respective responsibilities and duties
of various categories of government employees. Our views as to these limita-
tions are as follows:
1. The right to strike, provided in para 5, may be curtailed or denied
to any or all government employees as such.
2. The right to mediation and arbitration procedure to resolve disputes
not settled by direct negotiation, provided in para 4, may be denied to per-
sonnel of the ordinary civil service including the postal service, by reason
of their duties which are peculiar to government, although not to industrial
employees of the government, such as railway, communications, monopoly, con-
68
struction, maintenance and custodial workers, whose functions are indistin-
guishable from those or corresponding workers in private employment.
3. The right to form or join employee organizations at all as provided
55
in paras. 1 and 2, may be denied to personnel of the police, fire, coast guard.
penal institutions services, or any others similarly assigned, by reason of
f
their responsibility to protect public safety and order.
In deference to the possibly conflicting views expressed heretofore by
SCAP and the directly contrary statement made by Mr. Sebald to the Allied
Council, this position is stated negatively rather than positively in the
attached draft message, and the Department wishes to avoid public statement
of its position. Such public statement would be embarrassing to SCap and
USPOLAD and woulå generate prolonged and undesirable controversy of a legal-
istic character over details with friendly FEC countries whose legislation
and practice differs from that of the United States.
The Department believes that the application in Japanese law and practice
of the principles set forth above will obviate attack from all interested
countries except the UsSR and enlist general support for the action taken
without requiring the public statement of the U.S. position on the legal
questions involved.
goolar
Cleared in draft by:
L/P
NA
OFD
O: JFRay, Jr.: jcd
Mr. Snow
Mr. Allison
Mr. Barnett
SECRET

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.98)
STANBARD FORM NO. 54
TO
: E - Mr. Nitze
DATE: Ootober 18, 1948
FROM : ITP - Mr. Martin
OFD - Mr. Knapp
SUBJECT:
SCAP's Labor Position.
I. Recommendation
We recommend that the State Department obtain Labor and Army Department
approval for the issuance of the following interim directive to SCAP as
a matter of urgency:
"Japanese Government employees, with the exception of
guardians of public safety and order such as police, firemen,
etc., and administrative employees normally included in civil
894.
service categories, should be given full exercise of the
normal trade union right to organize and bargain collectively,
but not the right to strike.
50
"The above policy is supplementary to and does not
derogate from the policy direction contained in JCS 63."
II. Discussion
The above action is justified, we believe, by the following
considerations:
a riguisicant parlur
-1848
a. There are approximately 2.5 million workers in Japan
employed by the Government. They constitute about 40% of the 6.6 million
workers who have been organized into unions under the terms of United
Stetes Government and FEC directives. Leeeathan 1million of these would
be considered normal civil servants or defenders of public safety in the
United States. The intent of FEC O45/5 (Principles for Japanese Trade
Unions) was to encourage the organization of workers into unions, and
to assist them in reserving and improving conditions of work and in
order that they might participate in the building up of a peaceful and
democratic Japan. To exclude all government employees from the exercise
of normal trade union rights seems to deny, without reason, to large
mumbers of Japanese workers the right to participate in these objectives.
b. While the FEC is not of one mind regarding the application
of FEC O45/5 to government employees, the Anglo-American countries, on
grounds of policy as well as on established traditions in their own
countries, have found objections to the exclusion of government employees
from the enjoyment of normal rights of labor. If their views are dis-
regarded by SCAP the interest on the part of these countries in the success
of other aspects of the occupation program may be seriously weakened and
their cooperation withheld. It should be borne in mind in this conneotion
that the

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
that the three British Empire Governments most concerned are labor
governments who are directly answerable to parliaments controlled by
labor members.
c. The language of FEC O45/5 is ambiguous and is possible
of being used to justify the position taken by SCAP that the directive
does not apply to government employees. On the other hand it can be
argued with equal power that neither the language nor FEC records justify
the exclusion of such workers from its terms. Such ambiguity is undesrable
and we believe, therefore, that a U.S. interim directive should be sent
to SCAP for the purpose of clarifying SCAP's present direotive.
d. Irrespective of the international implications of this
matter, we believe this interim directive is desirable on the ground of
the domestic situation in Japan. We believe the course of action SCAP
now proposes, which is to deny these trade union rights to large groups
of government industrial workers, will weaken the healthy demooratic
tendencies in the labor movement, strengthen the basis of open Communist
propoganda against the occupation, and contribtue to the subordination of
an important class of labor to the Japanese bureaucracy and, clandestinely,
to possible totalitarian leadership. The question might be raised here
as to why we feel the course of action we recommend will weaken rather
than strengthen the hold of communism on the labor movement. We believe
the most effective way to fight Communist influence in Japanese Government
enterprises is to give the workers involved as free an expression of
organizational rights as may be compatible with efficiency and public
order. It should be noted that SCAP has recognized this principle in his
plan that the government railroads be turned into public corporations
whose workers be allowed full organizational and the collective bargaining
rights as well as use of mediation and arbitration facilities. Under this
proposal, they will, therefore, be given exactly those organizational
rights we are desirous of having extended to other non-administrative
government employees. Promise of this development seems to us to have
forestalled a drift to the left among railroad workers. In contrast the
communication workers, to whom SCAP does not contemplate providing these
rights, have swung still further to the left since July 22. We believe
the extension of these same rights, coupled with denial of the use of
the strike or any other "dispute tactic" to all "industrial" employees of
government, to be the most effective antidote to Communist infiltration
and propaganda among this important group of workers.
e. There is no question that issuance of an interim directive
will in SCAP's opinion affect his prestige and the efficiency of the
occupation. To a considerable extent the effectiveness of MacArthur's
leadership depends, he believes, upon the consistency and logic of the
course he has followed. We do not believe that the course we recommend
need necessarily affect his prestige since the directive does not deal
w1th

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
with the applicability of JCS 63 itself to govermment employees, but
merely supplements that directive. It merely extends labor rights to
a wider category of industrial employees than recommended in the 22 July
letter and does not touch upon the recommendations as far as civil servants
are concerned.Moreover, the fact that the program we are recommending is
a "right" program, and much of MacArthur's support in Japan has been due
to its "rightness" in the past, we believe that the loss to his prestige
caused by what may be regarded as a superficial inconsistency in his
exercise of authority would more than outweigh the mass approval tob
expected in Japan of new policy direction from which large mumbers of
Japanese workers would obtain definite, though circumscribed, advantages.
We feel, further, that the effectiveness of U.S. leadership in Japan
should not rest upon any assumption, by the Japanese people, of its
infallibility. Domestic leadership can admit and correct error.
f. Two other considerations of great importance within the
United States itself, need to be noted. First, the United States
Department of Labor has taken a firm stand that the denial of the trade
union rights as proposed by SCAP is contrary to American practices for
similar workers in the United States and that that denial should not be
approved by the U.S. Government. Second, United States labor organizations
have become informed regarding SCAP's position, are alive to its
implications and are united in opposing it. In this latter connection the
position of the U.S. Government vis a vis SCAP can have far-reaching
implications in the domestic political situation which should not be
ignored.
ILS
II: PBSullivan: bcb
OFD: RWBarnett :
10/18/48

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.96)
TO
E - Mr. Nitze
DATE: October 19, 1948
ITP - Mr. Martio
FROM
OFD - Mr. Banhott
SUBJECT:
SCAP's Labor Position.
I. Reconmendation
Wo recormend that the State Department obtain Labor
and Arny Department approval for the issuance of the
following interim directive to SCAP as a matter of
urgency:
"Japanese Government employees, with the
exception of guardians of public safety and
order such as police, firemen, etc., and adminis-
trative employees normally included in civil
service categories, should be civen full exercise
of the normal trade union right to organize and
bargain collectively, but not the right to strike wfn
"The above policy is supplementary to and
n und 7.
does not derogate from the policy direction
The srumpotion
contained in JCS 63."
8
II. Discussion
b
1. We bolieve that the recommended action is justi-
fied by the following considerations:
a. There are approximately 2.5 million workers
力
in Japan employed by th ovornment. They constitute a
significant portion of the 6.6 million workers who have
been organized into unions under the terms of United States
Gevernment and VEC directives. In the United States only
come 1/2 million of these overnment employecs would be
considered normal civil servants or defenders of public
safety. The intent of FEC O45/5 (Principles for Japanese
Trade Unions) was to encourage the organization of workers
into unions, and to assist them in improving conditions of
work. Organized labor was expected to participate in the
building up of a peaceful and denocratic Japan. The ex-
clusion of governnent employees fron a responsible exercise
of trade union rights, as contemplated by SCAP, seems to
deny to a large number of Japanese workers the right to
purticipate in accomplishing these objectives.
b. Irrespective of the international or the FEC
implications of this matter, we believe the recommended
interim

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2-
interim directive is inherently desirable in the light of
the domestic situation in Japan. In short, we believe
the course of action SCAP now proposes-to deny trade
union rights to large groups of government industrial workers-
will weaken democratic tendencies in the labor movement, will
strengthen the basis of open Communist propaganda against the
occupation, will contribute to the subordination of an important
class of labor to the Japanese bureaucracy and might invite
totalitarian leadership to make an appeal to these workers. We
believe the most effective way to fight Communist influence in
Japanese Government enterprises is to give their workers as
free an expression of organizational rights as may be compatible
with efficiency and public order. SuAp himself seems to have
recognized this principle in formulating and, since July 22,
making known, his plan that the government railroads be turned
into public corporations whose workers are to be allowed full
organizational and the collective bargaining rights as well as
use of mediation and arbitration facilities. Under this pro-
posal, they would be given exactly those organizational rights
we desire to have extended to other non-administrative government
eaployees. Promise of this development seems to have forestalled
irw do
a drift to the left among railroad workers. In contrast, the
communication workers, to whom SCAP does not contemplate providing
these rights, have swung still further to the left since July 22.
We believe the extension of normal rights, even if coupled with
denial of the use of the strike or any other "dispute tactic"
to all "industrial" employees of government, to be a most effective
antidote to Communist infiltration and propaganda among this
important group of workers.
c. Two considerations of great inportance within
the United States itself, need to be noted. First, the
United States Department of Labor has taken a firm stand that
the denial of trade union rights to government employees, as pro-
posed by SCAr, is contrary to American practices for similar
workers in the United States and that this denial of these rights
to Japanese workers should be opposed by the United States
Government. Second, United States labor organizations are
informed regarding SCAP's position, are alive to its implications,
and are united in vigorous opposition to it. In this latter
connection, we should not ignore the importance to our Government
of continued U.S. labor support for our foreign policy.
d. The
SECRET

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-3-
d. The language of FEC O45/5 is ambiguous.
ScAP has used this ambiguity to justify his interpretation
that the directive does not apply to government employees.
On the other hand it can be argued with equal power that
neither its language nor FEC records justify the ex-
clusion of such workers from its terms. That FEC O45/5
contains this ambiguity is undesirable and the ambiguity
should be removed. However, clarification of the ambiguity
by reference to the legislative history of the policy as
a whole is obviously less satisfactory than explicit
amendment of the policy. Time is too short to secure
FEC approval of such an amendment. The Diet is likely to
be called into session to act on this matter within the
fortniht. We believe, therefore, that the recommended
U.S. interim directive should be sent to SCAP for the
purpose of supplementing SCAP's present directive.
e. There is no question that issuance of the
recommended interim directive will, in MacArthur's opinion,
affect his prestige. To a considerable extent the
effectiveness of his leadership depends, he believes, upon
the consistency with which he exercises his authority.
We believe that the course we recommend need not
necessarily affect either his prestige or the consistency
of his actions since our recommended directive does not
deal with the applicability of FEC O45/5 itself to govern-
ment employees, but merely supplements that directive.
We believe that any possible loss in his prestige caused
by what may be regarded as a superficial inconsistency in
his exercise of authority would be more than outweighed
by the mass approval to be expected in Japan of new policy
direction from which large numbers of Japanese workers
would obtain definite, though circumscribed, advantages.
We feel, further, that, broadly speaking, the effectiveness
of U.S. leadership in Japan should not rest upon any
assumption by the Japanese people of its infallibility.
Democratic leadership, unlike totalitarian authority, can
admit and correct error and gain strength in the process.
f. While the FEC is not of one mind regarding
the application of EC O45/5 to government employees, the
British commonwealth countries, on grounds of their Japan
policies as well as on the basis of established traditions
in their own countries, have objected to any suggestion
that government employees should be excluded from enjoy-
ment of the normal rights of labor. If their views are
disregarded by SCAP their interest and sense of responsibility
in
SECRET

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-4-
in the success of the occupation may be seriously weakened
and their cooperation withheld. It should be borne in
mind, in this connection, that the three British Common-
wealth Governments most concerned are labor governments
who are directly answerable to parliaments controlled by
labor members.
2. Since there may be reluctance, in some quarters of
the United States Government, to issue to SCAP the
recommended directive without his prior concurrence, it
is suggested that the proposed directive be sent to SCAP,
(a) with the statement that it represents the
policy conclusion of this government; and,
(b) with the request that he indicate whether he
would prefer to receive it in directive form from the JCS
or accept and act unon it as the formal administrative
advice of the United States Government.
III. Documentation
The attached tabs contain summary of issues and
documents which have been taken into consideration in
making this recommendation.
Attachments:
Primary issues under current discussion (Tab A)
Outgoing cable to SCAP embodying State, Army, Labor
agreed views (Tab B)
Reply from SCAP (Tab C)
P.B.5. 
ITP:ILS:PESullivan:apS
OFD:RWBarnett
ITP
OFD
LE/E
SECRET

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
October 19, 1948
TO:
0 - Mr. Claxton
FROM:
L/P - Conrad E. Snow
SUBJECT:
The Application of JC Serial Number 63 to Japanese
Government Employees
1. A legal opinion is desired as to the meaning of the
phrase "Japanese workers" in JC Serial #63 (FEC-045/6), or in
particular, as to whether the words include employees of the
Japanese Government.
2. JCR #63 provides in brief thet "Japanese workers"
8
should be encouraged to form themselves into trade unions; that
b
the right of trade unions and their members to organize should
f
be protected by law, and the freedem of "workers" to join trade
unions be provided for by law; that trade unions shall be
encouraged "to negotiate with the employers on behalf of their
力
members regarding terms and conditions of employment"; that the
Japanese Government should establish mediation and arbitration
o
machinery for deeling with industrial disputes that cannot be
settled by negotiation; and that strikes and other work stonpages
-1948
should be prohibited only when the occupation authorities consider
thet such stoppages would directly prejudice the objectives or
needs of the occuupation. The paper contains no reference to em-
ployees of the Government as such, and no limitation of the phrese
"Japanese workers" to non-governmental emnloyees.
3. Examination of the legislative history of JC #63 indicates
that its framers meant to include in the words "Jananese workers"
at least some categories of government employees.
a) The earliest antecedent of JC #63 was SWNCC-92/1,
adopted by State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee 28 Dec 45, and
circulated to the Joint Chiefs of Staff and to the American
representative on the FEC. The paper was entitled "Treatment
of 'Japanese Viorkers Organization". The paper was designed
"to determine the policy to be followed by the occupation
authorities in dealing with organizations of Japanese workers".
It is clear that the words "Japanese workers" in this paper
were intended to cover at least certain classes of government
employees. This is indicated by the following passages:
(1) In

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
(1) In presenting the historical background, in the
"Discussion" (Appendix, p. 10), it was stated that "The
basic industries, such as communications, transport,
metals and chemicals, were more highly organized than
industry as a whole. Thus at one time forty percent
of the transport workers . . . were in unions". The
communications and transport workers were government
employees.
(2) In the discussion of labor legislation (Appendix
p. 13-14) the "Labor Disputes Adjustment Act of 1925"
(actually 1926) "under which arbitration of disputes
in public utilities and government industries was to be
compulsory", was stated to be of no practical significance,
because only four cases of arbitrations had been reported,
most disputes having been settled by police intervention.
This act actually covered several categories of government
employees.
(3) The conclusion was reached (p. 5), among others, that
the occupation authorities, in their own employment and
labor policies, should, when conditions warrant, give
positive encouragement to the development of labor organ-
izations. If the paper contemplated labor organisations
among the employees of the occupation authorities, a fortiori
it must have contemplated the same among employees of the
Japanese Government.
b) The first draft of the FEC policy paper (FEC-O39) was
submitted by the U.S. delegation on 28 March 1946, and closely
followed the SWNCC paper. The title "Treatment of Japanese
Workers' Organizations" was retained, and the first paragraph
provided that the Japanese Government should issue a general
proclamation recognizing the feedom of industrial and agricul-
tural workers to join trade unions. The conclusion of
SWNCC-92/1, as to the duty of the occupation authorities with
respect to the development of labor organizations, in their
own employment and labor policies, reappears as paragraph 3
of FEC-O39. Naturally, however, the matter contained in the
"Discussion" of SWNCC-92/1, did not appear in the FEC paper.
c) FEC-O39 was referred to Committee Number 4 of the FEC
and there reappeared in draft as C4-009/1. On 2 July 1946
appeared a new draft (C4-009/2), in which the title is changed to
"Principles for Japanese Trade Unions", and in which the words
"Japanese Workers" appear in the first paragraph, in the same
context as in FEC-045/6.
a) On

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
d) On 10 July 1946, the U.S. member of Committee Number 4,
in response to requests for information, submitted a compilation
of actions taken by the Supreme Commander "to implement the
principles set forth in the U.S. directive on Japanese Workers'
Organization contained in FEC-O39". Thet the phrase "Japanese
Workera" was still conceived to include government employees is
indicated by the following passages:
(1) As to paragraph 3 of F C-O39, the U.S. member pointed
out that SCAP, in a letter to the Armies, subject Civilian
Labor Employed by Occupation Forces", dated 17 Nov 1945, had
stated that "the freedom of industrial and agricultural
workers to establish and to join democratic and orderly labor
association or trade unions for the purpose of bargaining
collectively with private employees, official and semi-
official companies, and government industries and services,
will be recognized."
(2) In the same connection he reported that instructions
had been issued guaranteeing "the right of employees working
for the Occupation Forces to organize and bargain collectively."
(3) With reference to strikes and other work stoppages the
same letter to the Armies had prohibited "strikes, lock-outs,
or other work stoppages which are inimical to the objectives
of military occupation". The U.S. member pointed out that
"in practice, transportation, communication, coal mining,
repatriation services and occupation forces' projects, have
been considered essential," and that this limitation, communi-
cated orally to the Japanese Government, had prevented several
serious stoppages in those categories.
e) In the Steering Committee the paper appeared as SC-032,
SC-032/1, SC-032/2, and SC-032/3, without change in the words in
question. It was passed by the Far Eastern Commission in the
same words, FEC-045/5, 9 December 1946, and sent to SCAP as a
U.S. Directive, FEC-045/6, 30 December 1946. Nothing in the
reported discussions in the Steering Commission or before the
Far Eastern Commission appears to bear on the interpretation in
cuestion.
921116/45
an
Day74628
L:L/P:CESnow:lml
10-19-48

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
October 19, 1948.
POINTS AT ISSUE BETWEEN GENERAL
MACARTHUR AND STATE-LABOR-ARMY ON
JAPANESE GOVERNMENTAL LABOR.
2 of Oct 8and 12, 1948, th date of
State-Labor-Army concerning Japanese goveramental labor revelve 
about three basic issues, (a) right to strike, (b) self-orgamisation,
and (c) collective bargaining.
(a) Right to atrike. General MacArthur desires a law deoreeing no
strikes om the part of govermmental employees, whether "industrial"
employees (such as the equivalent of New York City's subway workers)
or "ordinary" (Civil Service white collar) employees.
State-Labor-Army believe that under present conditions in Japan
no strikes should be permitted, but do not desire to see a mo-striks
provision embodied in law, rather, they desire SCAP to make a finding
that strikes and other work stoppages on the part of any and all alasses
of Government employees would directly prejudice the objectives and
meeds of the dccupation, such finding to be inaluded in any statement
made prior to the enactment of the general Civil Service legislation or
at the time of its approval by SCAP. This would be in effect a no-strike
provision for the duration of occupation, without prejudicing the choice
which the Japanese people may decide to make in this field after the end
of the occupation.
(b) Self-organization. With respect to both "industrial" and
"ordinary" governmental employees, General MacArthur would limit the
choice of representatives to persons who are working within the Japanese
governmental service; these persons would be permitted to spend only a
small part of their time performing union work, the amoumt of time
being fixed by the National Personnel Authority, whieh would be the
Japamese equivelent of the Civil Service Commission, but with greatly
expanded powers.
State-Labor-Atmy take the position that both "industrial" and
"ordinary" governmental enployees should be entitled to have repre-
sentatives of their own choosing bargain for them, including full-
time, paid persons if so desired. Abuses by way of exclusive time
spent on union activity, etc., could be regulated by the Natiomal
Personnel Authority.
(c) For both

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
(e) For both "industrial" and "ordinary" govermmestal
employees, General Maekrthur would Limit eallestive bargeining to
the right of employees of "negotiating with proper satherities
relative to eonditions of employment and for other lanfal pespeses
inaluding sosial mlfare activities. Seek megetiatioms shall he
solely in the sense of presenting grievances fer making and dissme-
sing rosommendations. Suah presentation of grievamses and meeesssmier
tions shall be subjegt in all partieulars to the prossdures of the
Natiomal Personnel  authority. No person in the serviee shall be
denied the right to present grievances or meke reeemmendatiems by meases
of his hom-membership in an empleyee organisation." In ether wards,
ment, leading to a sontract setting forth houms, rates of pay and
other matters whieh ordinarily are part of a colleetive costrest.
A umion's function essentially would invelve the presemtatiom of
grievances and petitions for redress with respect to the mere basie
eonditions of employment. An individual non-union member weuld have
the sam rights in theae respects as a union.
State-Labor-Army take the positiom that "industrial" govermmemtal
employees should have the basie rights of callective hargaining with
respeet to basis conditions of employment--hours, rates of pey, ete.-
the negotiation of grievance procedures and of grievance eases arising
thereunder, with mediation and compulsory arbitration of all mresalved
issues. With respeet to "ordinary" governmental employees, State-Laber-
Army take the position that they should be permitted, through repre-
sentatives of their own choice, to present grievances and megotiate
them.
It should be noted that General MasArthur plans to permit Govera-
ment employees on railways and in the salt, eamphor, and tobesse
Government monopolies to enjoy full rights of self-organisatiom and
colleetive bargaining, with mediation and eompulsory arbitratiom, with
whieh State-Labor-Army is in agreement. Essentially State-Lebor-
Army desire to see these rights granted to other "industrial"
governmental employees who happen to be working in fields sueh as
maintenanoe, construction, oustodial serviees, Government plants, and
communication services other than personnel.
October 19, 1948.
::L/E:SDMetzger:vwm

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAI
De/RT
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
TELEPHONE
DATE: October 25, 1948
SUBJECT:
Japanese Employment Abroad
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. Tswen-ling Tsui, Counsellor, Chinese Embassy
O - Mr. J. Franklin Ray, Jr.
11:00 A. M., October 15, 1948
894.504/10-
COPIES TO:
NA - Mr. Allison
0 - Mr. Ray
POS/J - Mr. Schuler
0 - Files
0
- Mr. Claxton
FEC - Dr. Blakeslee
OFD - Mr. Barnett
894.5049-2048
1-1408
Mr. Tsui telephoned to reply to questions asked in previous conversations
of September 17, 1948 (as summarized in Memorandum of September 20, 1948,
2
previously circulated) concerning the Chinese request to SCAP for approval of
5
the,employment of 20 Japanese technicians to re-install a paper mill at Canton.
48
Mr. Tsui stated that upon reporting the previous conversations to his
Ambassador, he had been instructed to inform the Department that the above
request did not reflect any.change of policy on the part of his Government
or any change in its attitude towards the travel of Japanese abroad. He said
that the Chinese Government considered the proposed travel and employment of
these Japanese technicians to be an action flowing from the past circumstances
of the Japanese looting of the mill in question and its subsequent restitution
to China. The proposals involving Japanese travel currently under consideration
by the Commission dealt, on the other hand, with the future. The latter ques-
tions are regarded by the Chinese Government as clearly distinguishable from
CS/A
the former and as meriting separate and possibly different consideration.
Mr. Tsui was thanked for his response to our enquiry (in the form of a
lesson in Chinese logic) and was assured that the views of his Government
would be noted by the interested officers of the Department.
894.50
TIK
Hix
Jo:JFRay,Jr:mwc

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
SECRET
TO
: O - Mr. Saltzman
DATE: 0ctober 27, 1948
SUBJECT:
Draft Radio to SCAP On The National Publio Servioe Law
Part II (less its Paragraph B) of the accompanying
Draft Radio to SCAP on the National Public Servioe Law is
not regarded as acceptable for a number of the reasons
whioh I inoluded in my memorandum to you of Ootober 2D,
as well as for the following reasons:
1. SCAp 1s by his own admission deeply committed on
the present draft of the NPSL. This draft bears the imprint
of long and hard negotiation not only as between SCap and
the Ashida Cabinet, but between the various Japanese political
parties. The attaohed Draft Radio is asking that substantive
changes be made in what is probably the most important para-
graph in the NPSL, that 1e, Article 98. Aocording to the
Octcber 1 Intelligence Survey (Secret), "Protracted discussions
on the Draft NPSL have now resulted in a practical compromise
between the Government and...the left-wing of the Sooial
Democratio Party. The Government succeeded in winning its
point on Article 98, but lost out on the classifioation of
employees contained in Article 13 of the accompanying Regu-
lations...Communist protests will be vooiferous..." To
f
direct SCAP to make substantive changes 1n Paragraph 98
will evidently upset the balance on which the present com-
promise Draft has been accepted, requiring an indefinite
力
period of renegotiation.
Following the acoeptance of the present Draft NPSL by
the Ashida Cabinet, a more conservative regime has come to
power. As SCAP strongly emphasized in his C-64695, 1t would
be most improbable that the Yoshida Cabinet would seek to
liberalize the NPSL in the direotion suggested by Part II A
of this Radio. Because it would be a clear indication to
the world at large that he had been overruled by the U. S.
Government on the NPSL, SCAP might be inclined to acoede to
present requests that there be an immediate dissolution of
the Diet. This would postpone the enactment of vital legis-
lation and would continue the Interim Cabinet Ordinance 201
in effect indefinitely.
2. We have not yet received from SCAP a full statement
of his reasons for opposing Paragraph 8 of War 90494. Undoubt-
edly he has in mind the thought that every precaution should
be
SECRET

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-2
be taken to insure that the Japanese Government remain
free from Communist infiltration, which might be facilitated
by the membership of Government workers in unions dominated
by the Japanese Communist Party. The suggestion is advanced
in the attached Radio thet the Law should permit Government
employees to join employee orgenizations of their own
choosing, but that the National Personnel Authority have
authority to adopt regulations to prevent abuses of this
right. However, regulations to prevent abuses of this
right could, seemingly, not be wholly effective unless they
went so far as virtually to say by regulation what is now
said by law. It would be more direct, honest and a better
precedent for the future if the true meaning of this para-
graph were set forth clearly in the Law, rather than per-
mitting the Law to say one thing and the internal regulations
another. This would also be more consistent with out efforts
to encourage the Japanese to govern by legislative process
rather than by the orders and regulations which were so
cheracteristic of authoritarian government in Japan in the
prewar years.
3. It may be argued that the proposed Radio only
requires that SCAP make minor changes in the Draft Law.
Aside from the probability thst SCAp would not agree that
the proposed changes were minor, I think it is much wiser
from this Government's point of view, having fully acquainted
SCAP of 1ts views in War 90494, to let SCAP take the full
responsibility for not having availed himself of these views.
There is bound to be widespread controversy and labor unrest
in Japan connected with this legislation. If we force SCAP
to make certain "minor" amendments in the Law, we may be
assured that whatever goes wrong in Japen thereafter will
be attributed by SCAP and by his supporters in Japan and
the United States to the fact that SCAp was overruled on
this point by the U.S. Government. It would seem to be a
far sounder tactic to tell SCAP at this stage that we must
rely on nis judgment in this matter end thus cause SCAp to
take full responsibility for the consequences.
It was my understanding that this was the decision teken
in your office last week and that this wes to be the State
Department's position.
hma119.
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
SECRET

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
GIR
fi
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: Nbvember 1, 1948
SUBJECT:
Labor Policy in Japan
References:
1 - State-Labor-Army Radio to SCAP 10/8/48
3 - E Memo
2 - SCAP Radio 10/12/48
4 - L Memo
PARTICIPANTS:
5 - FE Memo
0
E
Mr. Saltzman
Mr. Nitze
L
FE
894.504/11-14
Mr. Wilds
Mr. Barnett
Mr. Tate
Mr. Butterworth
Mr. Claxton
Mr. Sullivan
Mr. Snow
Mr. Allison
Mr. Ray
Mr. Green
COPIES TO:
OFD - Mr. Barnett
POS/J - Mr. Schuler
ILS - Mr. Sullivan
L - Mr. Snow
NA - Mr. Green
0 - Mr. Ray
O - Files
The meeting was held on Thursday, October 21, 1948 in the office of the
1-1493
48
Assistant Secretary of State for Occupied Areas.
Mr. Saltzman opened the meeting by noting that the FE memorandum (reference
5) indicated disagreement with the views and recommendations presented in the E
memorandum (reference 3), and by asking Mr. Nitze whether the U. S. Government
has to take action with respect to the pending and proposed labor legislation
for Japan.
Mr. Nitze replied that in his view no philosophical question of whether or
not U. S. Government "had" to take action was involved, but rather whether or not
the U. S. Government felt it desirable to show a policy interest in Japanese labor
matters. He stated that his office had no doubt that the U. S. Government would
have a political and economic policy interest in the fate of the labor movement
CS/A
in Japan. Whether or not Japanese labor in general should be encouraged to
organize itself along democratic lines did not seem to be at issue, and he did
not regard the legal argument for the application of FEC O45/5 to government
workers as a major factor in the views of his office (reference 3). Th  were,
however, three fundamental issues of economic principle involved in the cent
developments of the SCAP program for government workers -- (a) their right to
free association and organization, and to representation of their owm chosing,
(b) their right to collective bargaining, mediation and arbitration, and)
4.5
should, during the period of occupation, be allowed the right to strike,mnd
his knowledge no one had proposed that they should have this right. Thuhere
were really only two issues. Secondly, except for certain groups such a the
2
police
SECRET
5586

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2-
police and other guardians of public safety, and the normal civil service for
whom other provisions were made, he considered it universally agreed that all
other government workers should have the right to collective bargaining. It
appeared to E that it is clearly important to U. S. foreign economic policy to
recognize the claims of all Japanese government workers to the first right of
free organization and of representation of their owm choosing, and of all but
the two excepted groups to the right of collective bargaining. In this con-
nection, in view of the withdrawal of the right to strike, he felt that final
arbitration should be provided as a substitute.
Mr. Saltzman asked whether E felt that SCAP should be directed to grant
these rights to the indicated groups, despite his sharp representations to the
contrary (reference 2) based on conditions in Japan with which he was more
familiar than the groups considering the problem in Washington.
Mr. Butterworth stated that he did not think SCAP should be directed against
his judgment in the matter.
r. Nitze said he did not personally favor going so far as to issue an in-
terim directive on this subject, but felt the principle set forth was a right
principle and an important one, and that SCAP should be informed in the most
firm, clear, and definite terms that the U. S. Government expected him to abide
by that principle in his relations with the Japanese Government.
Mr. Saltzman commented that this had already been done. SCAP had, however,
ignored our views on the basis of his knowledge of the situation. He added that
SCAP had every right to exercise his own judgment until and unless he was other-
wise directed by proper authority, as established for the present regime of control.
Mr. Nitze stated that E considered the principles of economic policy in-
volved in this situation so important that the U. S. Government should be assured
that its views were made unmistakeably clear to SCAP,. and that these views could
be more firmly stated than in the last message (reference 1).
Mr. Saltzman proposed that a message be sent to SCAP which would (a) reiterate
the support of the U. S. Government for the policy views and recommendations of
the previous message as those which this government regards as generally applicable
and as appropriate goals to be sought in Japan under normal conditions, (b) recog-
nize SCAP's views and reasons for objecting, under present circumstances as he
described them, to implementing these policies at this time, (c) accept SCap's
judgment on the matter as not to be formally challenged by the U. S. Government
sitting at a distance from the situation in Japan itself.
Mr. Claxton commented that the position of E and FE did not appear to be so
far apart. Although the FE memorandum (reference 5) did not address itself to
the legal question of the applicability of FEC O45/5 to government workers as
did the L memorandum (reference 4) nor to what ir. Nitze had called the first
right, of free association, organization and representation (to which the Depart-
ment of Labor also attached great importance) FE had suggested that if commonly
and promptly
SECRET

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-3-
and promptly acceptable to the U. S. Government agencies concerned, it should be
proposed that the telecommunications workers should be formed into a government
corporation which would presumably entitle them to the rights of mediation and
arbitration. This suggestion would also conform to the opinion of L (reference 4).
As a matter of fact, r. Claxton added, the Under Secretary of the Army already
sent a personal message to SCAP making this proposal as a compromise solution of
the controversy that had arisen.
Mr. Butterworth said if this had been done, there was little point to the
present meeting, as the entire issue had been compromised. He had no doubt of
SCAP's reply to such a message.
Mr. Saltzman referred to his previously suggested outline of a message to
SCAP, and asked for reactions of FE, L and E.
Mr. Butterworth indicated his agreement with its substance.
Mr. Tate stated that his office, upon carefully reviewing the legislative
history of FEC O45/5, had concluded that at least certain government workers,
such as transport and communications workers, were clearly intended to be covered
by the policy decision, although the language of the directive itself was unclear.
He said he was aware that the contrary view, that the policy decision had no
bearing on government workers, had been expressed publicly by the Political Adviser
to SCAP and privately by SCAP himself but flet that this latter view was not sup-
ported by its history.
Mr. Saltzman asked whether if the language of the decision was obscure, there
was any reason to expect SCAP to be familiar with or governed by its history, rather
than by his own interpretation of the directive he had received.
General Snow noted that the documents which L had reviewed in arriving at
its.opinion had also been available to SCAP and that SCAP had himself referred
(in reference 2) to the deliberetions leading to the adoption of the policy. He
pointed out that legally, the obscurity of the language of FEC O45/5 could be
corrected by a new decision, or by a supplemental directive interpreting the one
previously sent to SCAP.
Mr. Saltzman commented that since the language of FEC O45/5 was general or
obscure, and since there seemed to be a clear division of opinion in the FEC on
the applicability of FEC O45/5 to Government vo rkers SCAP would seem within his
rights to give the directive his executive interpretation, as in the case of all
other directives, and asked again for L's views on the outline of the message to
SCAP which he had proposed.
Mr. Tate stated that L had confined its study to the legal aspects of the
problem, that its findings were that the legal theory underlying the proposed
message was the least tenable one, but that L's function did not include considera-
tion of the political aspects of the problem.
Mr. Nitze
SECRET

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-4-
Mr. Nitze then stated that on the substance of the problem, the question of
the labor relations program to be followed in Japan in furtherance of U. S. foreign
economic policy interests, he did not believe there were any different positions
being taken by the offices present. He said that E considered the principles in-
volved to be those set forth in the previous message to Scap (reference 1) and
rephrased in the E memorandum (reference 3). These principles should, he felt,
be supported by the U. S. Government and restated to SCAP for application in Japan,
unless there were countervailing political considerations which required subordina-
tion of economic policy. Whether there were such countervailing political considera-
tions was for FE to say.
Mr. Saltzman asked whether ir. Nitze wished the problem presented to the
Acting Secretary for decision.
Mr. Nitze considered this not necessary, and commented that from the position
FE had taken, he assumed that there were countervailing political considerations.
Mr. Butterworth indicated that there were such considerations.
Mr. Saltzman stated nis understanding that the offices represented concurred
in the substance of the message to SCAP which he had earlier proposed in outline.
Mr. Sullivan asked the meeting to consider that the probable consequences of
despatching the proposed message to SCAP would include: (1) objections from the
Department of Labor which might be carried to the Cabinet level for resolution,
(2) the disapproval of the U. S. labor movement, which might be reflected in its
attitude towards other foreign economic programs of the Government, (3) adverse
reactions of FEC members who would feel that their vlews had been disregarded,
that the U. S. Government had not discharged its commitment to review the pending
Japanese legislation in the light of the views they had expressed, and that SCAP
and the U. S. Government had acted contrary to the political interests of these
FEC countries in dealing with domestic and international labor movements, and (4)
adverse conditions for the conduct of SCAP's economic program in Japan. He asked
that these potential consequences be weighed before final decision was reached.
Mr. Barnett commented that r. Sullivan's remarks constituted essentially
political views which supported the taking of a positive stand by the U. S. Govern-
ment with respect to SCAP's program for government workers in Japan. He suggested
that a relevant topic for consideration was a review of the countervailing political
considerations which FE had in mind, and which he had not yet heard.
Mr. Green mentioned the adverse effect on SCAP's prestige which would result
from failure of the U. S. Government to support him fully in the program he had
worked out with the Japanese Government.
Mr. Nitze
SECRET
798

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-5-
Mr. Nitze stated that he did not consider the protection of scap's prestig
in his relationship with the U. S. Government to be the sort of important politio
consideration that would be countervailing.
Mr. Green said that, of course, more significance should be attached to the
rejection of SCap's judgment that would be involved in pressing a contrary cours
of action on him, than to the question of prestige.
Mr. Saltzman closed the meeting by restating his understanding that the
ranking representatives of FE, E and L had concurred in the substance of the
proposed message to SCAP.
A
o:JFRay,Jr:mwc
11/1/48
SECRET
3798

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATTORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
NOV 1 6 1948
9
PLAIN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Action: FB
Info:
Control 5045
F
C
Rec'd November 15, 1948
SAM
3:22 p.m.
FUR
CLI
01 fice of
CIA
PROM:
Moscow
S
I.CL
913
JTP
TO:
Secretary of State
CFD
FOS
NO:
2641, November 15.
la'e
FA
Soviet press November 14 devoted half column to
DCR
quotes and summary of Derevyanko's November 12 letter to
MacArthur protesting labor policy Japanese Government
894.504/11-1
and occupation authorities.
Sent Department 2641;Department pass Tokyo 41.
KOHLER
JMS:E0
NOTE
Relayed to Tokyo 11/15/48 - 3:30 p.m.
548
C
DE
DEC 3 1948
PLAIN
H
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
10-63010-1
GOVEANBSNT POINTODG GPPISE

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
fecardo
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
November 24, 1948
O - Mr. Saltzman
There is attached a memorandum of conversation with Mr. Graves of the
British mbassy which departmental officers had with him following the FEC
meeting this morning at which he made a statement (also attached) on Japanese
National Public Service Law.
After the conversation with ir. Graves the entire problem of handling
the government labor matter in the FC was discussed by Messrs. Schuler,
Green, Blakeslee and myself with General McCoy. You will recall this question
is formally before the Commission on the basis of a Soviet resolution which
would have the FEC criticize SCAP's letter of July 22 and the interim action
of the Japanese cabinet. The majority of the Conmission members have indicated
that they will oppose the Soviet resolution or at least will not support it,
and that their real interest is in the permanent legislation. It would seem
possible to obtain a vote on the Soviet resolution which would cause it to
fail of passage and remove it from the agenda. However, this would still
leave the much more difficult problem of permanent legislation. Thus far no
statements have been made relating specifically to the permanent legislation
which would cause it to be formally before the Commission, except the UK state-
ment attached.
e regard the only danger in adhering to this matter, but a serious one,
as the possibility that some member of the Commission--perhaps the Soviets or
the British--will propose a revision of FEC-O45/5, the paper dealing with labor
policy in Japan, or an entirely new policy paper which would provide as a
matter of policy that government workers should have some rights not presently
bargaining and/or the right of appeal to an independent arbitof tribunal.
X
Should this occur it would seem quite possible that a large majority of the
29
members would feel a strong obligation to vote for such a paper. Should the
paper be proposed by the USSR it would be enbarrassing to all concerned but
particularly to the U.S., since it might well develop that the other nations
would feel in this case obligated to support the Soviet resolution.
As you will see from the attached memorandum of conversation with
ir. Graves, he has given no indication the UK will go so far as to propose such
a new policy. The actions of the other members, particularly the USSR, cannot
be predicted.
Under the circumstances it seems necessary for the U. S. to make a clear
X
decision, either to accept the possibility of such a proposal being made by some
other country and the ultimate development of the U. S. being placed in a
minority
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.85)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
minority position which might be particularly embarrassing if it were the
Soviet member who put forwerd the proposal, or of taking the initiative
either directly or by agreement with some other member--perhaps the Common-
wealth member--to put forward the minimum modification of FEC-O45/5 which
would meet the desires of the Commonwealth members.
I believe this matter should be fully considered within the government
and a conclusion reached on it before the next meeting of the Commission.
2
P. F. Claxton, Jr.
Attachments:
Memo of Conversation
Cpy Statement re Para 98
22 Nes. H Solkmon cmludel
Thut it unl be fet to want
t se aoat bhe promesd. the feer
Thol urthiy bad tien reae t
dlang, ihe puion ns vier shsld
0:PPClaxton:br
sor wthe gevenet plreer
tufural tefre he Fsc, it
inled be refemed to sc
s conert. I stotel itt Idi
mart have a frim reconmendatin hes
wnld git one loln.
CONFIDENTIAI

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
Mr. Ralph W. Reid, Special Asaistant
Jamary 10, 1949
to the Under Secretary of the Aray
J. F. Ray, Jr., Office of the Assistant
Secretary of State for Occupied Areas
Labor Policy in Japan
There was subaitted to the Lepartment of the Aray for its
approval a draft statemant proposed to be made by General Modoy,
in reply to certain questions raised ty the Now Zealend Mmber at
the Commission meeting on December 9. Two copies of this Stat
Department draft are attached for your referenoe.
894.504/1-1049
It is our understanding that the officials of the Departmems
of the Aray who have been consulted on this matter have been umable
to conour in the use of the attached draft, and it has been indlested
to us that the paper will require the personal attention of the
Socretary of the Army.
I am instructed by Mr. saltsman to roquust that this paper be
submitted to the Secretary of the Army and that his approval er cm
ments be sought as a matter of urgency. Mr. Halter wilds and the
writer have been asked to handle further negotiations on this sabjeet
for this office.
pan
In view of the tie which has elapeed since the New Zealand
Member's questions were asked, the Departaent of State considers
it imperative that a .S. reply bc nade at the Commdssion mmoting
on Thursday January 13. The enclosed draft is believed to refleet
CS/CVE
the maximum agreement which may be attainable on this controveredal
matter amon. the concerned Lepartments, and it is hoped that neither
the L epartment of Labor nor the Army will find majar grounds for
objection to its use by the .S. Mepresentative in the Far Bastern
Commission.
nclosure:
Two copies of
draft statement.
cc: Colonol Baker, CAD
994.504

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
Jay12190
1/2/44
HENDRANUH FOR THE UHITED STATES MDOER OF THE
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
Subject: Labor Pol1cy in Japan (FEC-045/5 et al.)
In response to the questions asked by the Yew Zealand member
at the meeting of the Commissien om Docember 9, 194s, you are
authorised to make the following statement:
At a recent meeting of the Commissiom the Dew Zealand Member
asked two questions of my delegation: (1) Whether, in our epiniem.
FüO-045/5 (Principles for Japamese Trade Unions) applies te all er to
some workers ampleyed by the Japanese Geverament; and (2) whether,
in our opinisn, the recent Japanese legislatiom on the mubject is in
894.504/1-1249
conformity with PEC-045/5.
PEC-045/5 is a broad statement of principlss fer Japamese trade
unions. It dees not indicate the specific categories of werkere,
government or otherwise, to which it applies or dees met apply.
While we are all aware that virtually every natien distinguishes
between labor relationships in Goverment and laber relatienships
in private enterprise, and makes further distinctions in the treatment
accorded various categories of Government workere, smeh distinctiems
are not made in FEC-045/5. The implementation of this poliey decisien
is left, of course, to the Supreme Commander in the exereise of his
ezecutive authority.
The Supreme Commander from time to time in the course of the
occupation has giren sponsorahip and approval of necessary and appro-
CS
priate Japanese legislation dealing with labor relatians both in
industry and in the public service. Legislation in these important
areas has been amended and revieed from time to time by comstitutional
processes within ths framework of the regime of coatrel, to mest the
objectives and needs of both the Japaness Government and the ocoupatien.
It may be reasonably expected that the legislative cede thus svolved
will undergo further revision by the same processes in the futare.
This
1197

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.85)
CONFIDENTIAL
Eis code of Japanese legialatian pertatsing to laber
ralassone within and withous the pablle serviss is met paétermct
procisely on that ef any ether single aatien, mar dhald s de
It has been developed fer Jepan, in consultatien botwpen the sne
eessive Japanese Geveramente and the Suprene Donmander vhe alane
en bekalf of the Allied Pevers is in a pesitien to aseess and
appraise frem an adsinistrative stadpeint, the sitetiém s sa
in which pertinent peliay direstives mast be implemeated by
specifie provisions of specifie lavs.
In view of the fact that the poliey desisien has in effeet
laft its precise application to Japanese laber to the Sgrese
Commander, as a matter of implemeatatien, I ens enly may in amswesr
to the Now Zealand Member's questiens, that ny Gevermmeat sensiders
it inappropriate fer it to attempt to previds, by its epiasen,
procise terms for such implementaties, and that it regards the
Implementation thus far effectuated by the Supreme Gemmsnder as
within his preregatives and the latitude given him by the pelier
decision. Hy Gevernment dees not comaider that the recent Jepanese
legislation is inconsistemt with P20-045/5.
Charles E. Salismen
Assistant Secretary
800
A
the
21171
cleanedinQapt
Anmy-Labni-Stak

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.92)
COMING--AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANGH
IRGR
3374
1
P
FROM:
USPCLAD Tokyo
ACTION:ITP
INPO
D-te:
Janury 31, 1949
DC/R
CONFIDENTIAL (FOF DEFT. USE CNLY)
0
Dote of
PR
mellinf:
Febrry 2 1949
B
OFD
Secretery of Strte.
Rec'd: PoD 16, 3949,11:17 M
OLI
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
"psrington.
AUE
EB1:191
54
894.
usp'ces Tconomic end Sctentific Sect on. General Hepdcurrters.
In opinion this is ion Conference served threcfold purnose:
1) pleced on if cord oCat invitetion to l:bor und fnagepent to
settle their differences volunt:rily snd  1thout SCaP interveotion:
) servea .s vericlo or SCaP, hile thus maintrininr ofiicial neu-
tr' 1ity. to naic te clerrly thrt no further industril strife vill
b toler ted; ?) urn sned lcver for extrscting no-efrike ledge
fror uniont, on ,round: th t close ril:t:onchic betvern veges ind
3149
roduction is no roncrel y accerted.
C.P spoerrs reluctrnt to is.ue tr stsbili:stion directive
but p rrntly att tin acco m ish : me pur ose by "su ,estion."
videncc supnortin. conclusio. is furnished by ect thst Chief of
CAP Lebor Division in private convers:tion referred to his tactics
as "voluntery coercion", but publicly asserted that delegates rould
in no "ey bind their orcnizations snd those or:nizations would
reu in frec to r: tify or reject all resolutions. Furthermore.
INFORMATION
temolutlon by menerment nd leoor alone," but edced thet if "these
ITP
levents do not  erete in neruony," the oublic interest will re-
CP
huire "the sdo tion of control weeuures by , overnaent1 ,uthority."
ILH
TR
Conference ettended by three ropresentstives each from Ceneral
Federation of Trede Unions end Congress of Industrisl Unions, one 
3D
representstive erch fron fifteen lerge indevendent unions, end
totrl of t enty-onr renresentetives from Joxsn Chamber of Commerce
B
and Federrt'on of Emnlovers Asrnci tione. rosident of Tokyo Col-
4
chrirren of subco itters. Sca ropresent tiver att nded ell neetitos
H
PERMANENg RECORD: GORY.← Thls copy mgst be retemakrtp DC/R contral Sies with netatien of actlen taken.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's A~25
Jrmuary 31, 1949
-2-
Neetings of subcomrittees resulted in considerable disagree-
ment over machinery to be estab?ished for settloment of dieputes.
Other imrort nt issues, such as question of minims weges and
problem cf government controls anc conpulsory arbitration, were
eltner avoided or given inconclusive treatment. Most significant
resolution adopted, it is felt by this Mission, emphasised neces-
sity for xege st bility end ratified nrinciple that wage increases
must be accompanied by increased productivity of labor. This roso-
luticn was drafted by President of Tokyo College of Commerce end
ScA laber officilals and adc)ted by subcommittee after minor changes
in phrascology. Not voted on by meeting of whole. but greeted with
poliierpplause.
vill report more fully vhen comnlete conference documente are
va: lable
SEBALD
560
Gsp:dens:lcker, Jr..rc
Hectograph end 1 copy to Department
CONFIDENLIAL (FOR DEFT. USE ONLY)

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: February 21, 1949
SUBJECT:
Labor Situation in Japan, Korea and Okinawa
Mr. Gibson, Assistaut Secretary, Department of Labor
Mr. Rusk
1940
Mr. Butterworth
Mr. Green (NA)
COPIES TO:
U
S568
G
O
E
FE(3)
POLAD, Tokyo and AIREP, Seoul
8
6
94.50
At my invitation, Mr. Gibson called at the Department to present
his views on the labor situation in Japan, Korea and Okinawa following
his recent trip there.
an
ir. Gibson said that on the basis of conversations with many
2
Japanese trade union and management groups, as well as with Headquarter
officials, he had comeaway with the decided impression that the labor
2
situation in Japan is not all that it might be. In his opinion, the
trend of occupation labor policies to date had been characterized first
4
by an overly liberal extension of rights and privileges to an inexper-
ienced labor movement, followed, in the summer of 1948, by an abrupt
shift of policy which is going too far in the other direction. This
he regarded as the basis for the present growth of Communism in the
trade union movement.
Mr. Gibson continued as followa: occupation officials are prone,
0
in explaining the January elections, to dismiss the Communist upsurge
8
as a passing Japanese reaction to the ineptitude and corruption of
9
recent governments and to the Chinese Communist victories. They appar- 
8
ently fail to see in the election returns a warning that positive
2
S
5
measuresI
C
ut
CONFIDENTIAL
2
-2149

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
measures are called for in combatting Communism, particularly in
intellectual and trade union circles where it presents its greatest
threat. One of the most effective ways of meeting the situation,
he thought, would be sending as soon as possible a committee of top
U.S. union leaders to Japan to give the Japanese some idea of how
democratic trade unions function in the United Stetes. This would
further provide much-needed advice and moral support to the Democ-
ratization League which is now unassisted in its struggle against
Communism in unions. Arriving at a time when the whole labor
movement in Japan is in a ferment over the projected revision of
the Trade Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Law at the forthcoming
Diet session, such a committee would exert a moderating effect both
on the attitudes of the unione towards needed changes in the labor
lawe and on the drafters of the laws themselves. In this connection
he suggested that it might be advantageous if a labor attache were
assigned to USPOLAD.
Mr. Gibson suggested additional ways in which the labor situa-
tion could be improved, es followa: (1) in the democratization of
the labor movement, the Occupation should place lese emphasis on
laws and more emphasis on education and guidance; (2) indirect
measures should be taken to remove the Communists who are now
members of the Central Labor Relations Board; and (3) employers
chould no longer pay "employees" who work full time as union repre-
sentatives.
Mr. Gibson seid that in discussing the National Publio Service
Law with General MacArthur, the General claimed to have no expert
knowledge of the labor and civil service technicalities involved and
to have acted on the advice given him by Headquarters specialists.
Mr. Gibson added that he could only conclude that the National Public
Service Lew was the handiwork of one perhaps biased group in Head-
quarters. In his opinion, the Law's shortcomings were: (1) its
penal provisions which he considered excessive, (2) the fact that it
increased in effect portal-to-portal hours for almost all government
workers by ten to twenty hours, (3) its failure to reorganize the
Communications Ministry, or part of it, into a government corporation
as had been done in the case of the government railways and monopolies.
Mr. Gibson stated that he had received assurance from General
MacArthur that henceforth all projected Japaneee labor legis-
lation would be submitted to the
Department
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 3 -
Department of Labor for review and comment prior to enactment; that
henceforth the Labor Section of Headquarters, not the Government
Section, would assist in the promotion of labor legislation through
the Diet.
The Japanese coal industry represented in Mr. Gibson's opinion
almost the ultimate in inefficiency. Equipment and methods are
below standards prevailing in the U.S. at the turn of the century.
There are far too many workers above ground in relation to those
working at the coal-face. Featherbeading, bad everywhere in Japan,
is at its worst in this heavily subsidized industry. Mr. Gibson
concluded that a great deal more could be accomplished under the
a
occupation in stepping up vital coal and hydro-electric output.
Mr. Butterworth inquired whether, in view of the traditional paternal-
ism of Japanese management, it would be possible appreciably to
reduce the number of unneeded workers. Mr. Gibson replied that
this problem could be partially met through proper unemployment
compensation and public works programs, but that little progress
had so far been made in this direction by the Occupation.
Mr. Gibson stated that both employer and employee groups fully
support the stabilization program.  He believed that some of the
strongest support would continue to come from the labor unions
provided the program is administered equitably. He regarded a
minimum wage scale as important despite rising costs.
In Korea, Mr. Gibson saw no signs of a free labor movement:
what unions there are seemed to him quite political in purpose.
He attributed this situation largely to the present deep-seated,
though understandable, fear of Communist penetration into organized
labor. Only 4 or 5 trade union agreements exist at present. Mr.
Gibson expressed the view that it is imperative to modernize the
Korean coal mining industry, which he regarded as even more back-
ward and inefficient than the Japanese. I suggested the application
of "point 4" in bringing this about. Mr. Gibson agreed and added
that with the further supplying of about 3.5 million dollars of
coal mining equipment the Korean coal industry could be satisfactorily
improved. Mr. Gibson further stressed the need for a good U.S.
labor adviser in Korea. He also mentioned the need for expediting
the fertilizer contracts for Korea.
In
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-4 -
In Okinawa, Mr. Gibson thought that immediate steps should
be taken to correct the present system of wages whereby Ryukyuan
laborers working for the U.S. Army are paid only $14 per month as
compared to prevailing monthly wage rates there of $48, with the
difference being largely made up by handouts of PX supplies.
Mr. Rusk expressed the hope that Mr. Gibson would commit to
paper these and any other recommendations he would care to make on
the Japanese, Korean and Okinawan labor situation, in order that
the State Department and other U.S. agencies concerned might have
an opportunity to give them careful study. Mr. Gibson indicated
that he would do so.
I thanked Mr. Gibson for his illuminating discussion and
expressed the hope that the State and Labor Departments would
cooperate closely on this and all other matters of common interest.
ma
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
2/23/49
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.90)
CONFIDENTIAL
E. NiTE
Ue/R-x
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
7.10-
Memorandum of Conversation
Hnu.
DATE: February 24, 1949
SUBJECT:
Visit of Assistant Secretary of Labor Gibson to Japan.
Labor Depertment:
PARTICIPANTS:
John Hbson, .sst. Jec.,Labor.
Phil miser
Oscar Weigert
aith Williams
Arnold Stoinbach
State Department:
Phil Claxton, 0
rank Ray, 0.
COPIES TO:
Robert warnett, OD
.. Collidge, DRF.
Philip . Sullivan, ILs.
E
OFD (Barnett)
De (Hunsberuer)
TTP
894.504/2-2449
Do (Peake)
I E
1-1403
The moetine was set up by Ir. Gibson in order to
cquaint interestcd State and Labor officers with the
hich lichts of r. Juson's trip to Japan, and to afford
tre oupertunit or e scussion of steps that might be
ta ton bo  oet ar smprevement os the laoor situation
in brat country.
abson  eotane by ointine to
the nt  mee o untst inrl pce rocistored in
the Junuary clection,  nd added that he believed Com-
umist rl tence is a mtimuin ts emoand. toneral
uc rt ur, he found, was nos mauly poneorned by this
srend, teelan that the tarty had reaored the hich
waber mms ef om ansion. v. isson attributed the Com-
mmunist election success in rt to the revision of the
ational Public Bervice Law and vhe inau maration carly
in Jamary of a 4s-hour week for public service employees.
towever, he a lso pound that mick om unist stren th was
derived from urban Poups oth er than labor, mentioning
shopkeepers, small busihossmen, und proresaional people.
8
de expressed the belief that if the bccupation were to
be wibhdrawn, the Commmnist mi ht be in a position to
make a bad por ewer was n ws liutle ee four yoars.
The Pemoeretisution Len ue and Sther anti-Comrnist
S
reups within the labor movenont, in his observation,
were
h
X029233

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
were handicapped by a lack of support, guidance, funds
and even paper. Leaders of the Democratization League
with whom he talked stated that they were following
three principles: (1) anti-Communism; (2) anti-company
unionism; (3) cooperation with management to inorease
produotion. The United States should, in I. Cibson's
opinion, take steps to combat the growth of Communist
influence and to bolster the anti-Communist forces by
sending a high-level Trade Union Advisory Committee at
the earliest possible time. Other recommendations to
the same end appear below.
II. In the course of a two-hour discussion with
General acarthur, he (r. Gibson) critioized certain
provisions of the National Public Service Law, although
he stated that he lieved an overall and fundamental
rovision of the law for the purpose of restoring col-
lective bar aining ri hts throu hout the whole of the
public servicc was inauvisable at this time. Specifi-
cally, at the recuost of General :acArthur, who asked
him to make Pecomnendations, r. Gibson stated he
favors; (a) climination of the resent sevore ponal
provisions of the Law, leeving discharge of the
employees as the major penalty for unautlorized labor
uctivities; nd (b) placing the comunications workers
in the same category as the monopoly and railway employees
tno thus subject to the provisions of the more liberal
Public Corpcrations Lobor Negotiation Law.
In aidition he intinated that he felt that the
extra rdinary powers of the Personnel Authority should
be subjected to more checs and balances than at present.
in the long run ho felt that experience with labor
relations in the Public Corporations would recommend
modification of tc more strin ent regulations governing
the balance of covernment employees. In this connection
he thought that the Naticnal Personnel Authority, under
the wording of the existing law, could by regulation
ive a liboral interrretation to the content of organi-
zational and collective necotiation rights.
One of first actions called for, in Mr. Gibson's
opinion, is a modification of the newly inaugurated 48-
hours week for public service employees, a work week
which he considers Inequitable and impracticable under
existing conditions in Japan.
III. General lacarthur appears to have given tacit
consent to the idea of a mission of American Trade
Unionists coming to Janan at an early dete. It is my
understanding

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
understanding that the Labor Department is already
contact with American Trade Unionists in respeot to
matter. However, there was no discussion with General
MacArthur of the idea of appointing a high level labor
adviser to SCaP.
In reply to a question regarding the advisability
of such a move, 'r. Gibson said that this was a very
delicate roblem in that there was a strong feeling in
the Labor Division of ScAP that such a person could not
be working inde endently from the Labor Division, but
must be a part of that Division; and that the appoint-
ment of an officer not connected with the Labor Division
to such a hi h post would probably result in the resi-
nation of a number of the key personnel in that
Division. r. Gibson apparently thought that some
member of the Trade Union Missfon jo Japan, on the basis
of his contacts with the ivision nd lacArthur, might
remein in Japan as a cefacto labor adviser in a position
to be worked out on the basis of experience.
IV. General acArthur specifically promised Mr.
ibson that the drafts of all labor legislation, including
revision of the resent laws now being contemplated, would
be sent to Washin ton for comment and recommendations
prior to their introduction into the Diet. Mr. Gibson
said he expected to receive very shortly the drafts of
the proposed revisions now being discussed in Japan. In
this connection, Iir. Gibson stressed the need for a
careful revision of some of the features of the labor
relations and trade union laws. Letter administration
of existing legal provisions is even more important than
change in the present laws, however.
:r. Gibson talked for one-half hour with President
Truman on e ruary 23, and he has also talked with Under
Secretary Webb, Assistant Secretary Dean Rusk, and Mr.
Eutterworth and r. Green of FE. This latter meeting
grew out of a conversation between lr. Gibson and Mr.
Webb concerning another issue, and Mr. Webb, who is an
old friend of Mr. Gibson, asked him to come over to talk
regarding his trip to Janan. Another meeting with a wider
representation from interested State Division is being
planned.
V. Mr. Gibson stated that General MacArthur requested
that his recommendations in respect to both the National
Public Service Law and other legislation be sent to him
(MacArthur) on a personal basis, direct, as he wished to
study them without recommendations or preliminary briefing
from any of his staff. lir. Gibson stated that he
intends

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.92)
A
-4
intends to make recommendations in regard to the labor
olicy in Japan not only directly to General MacArthur,
as stated above, but also the Secretary of State and
the Secretary of the Army. Vr. Webb had suggested that
when the recommendations for the Secrctary of State
were available a meeting miyht be set up with Secretary
Acheson.
TTP:TL::ErSLlivan:upe
(:D:WBGoolidge:

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
he/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
43
Memorandum of Conversation
31
CS
DATE: March 1, 1949
SUBJECT:
Recent developments in the Japanese Labor Situation
894.504/3-149
1949 R
PARTICIPANTS:
Department of Labor
John W. Gibson, Assistant Secretary
Philip Yaiser, Director, Office of International
Labor Affairs
Department of State
COPIES TO:
Mr. Philander P. Claxton, O
lir. J. Franklin Ray, O
Mr. Dallas W. Dort, E
ir. Robert W. Barnett, OFD
Mr. John M. Allison, FE
Lr. Maxwell M. Hamilton, FE
Lir. Max W. Bishop, NA
1-1608
Mr. William G. Jones, ED
r. Philip B. Sullivan, ILS
Mr. Stanley Mehmer, DRF
MAR 18 1949
CS/A
FLED
COPIES TO:
To State Department participants
894.504
This meeting was called in order to acquaint interested
Department officers vith the results of r. Gibson's trip to Japan
in February and with his conclusions on recent developments affect-
ing the Japanese labor situation.
Ir. Cibson began his ciscussion by describing the development
of the labor movement unier the ccupation and made the following
major comments on the present situation:
1. About 0 percent of the top union leadership are either
23
Communists or Comnunist-sympathizers. Yet the Covernment has brought
these leaders into government posts as labor representatives on
mediation boards,largely ignoring the appointment of moderate leaders.
30588
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
a
2
2. The inauguration of the 48-hour work week for government workers
shortly before the January election was a significant factor in driving
government workers to support the Communists. The recent swing to the
left in Japan was the result of the support of the Communist Party not
only by government workers, but also by educators and small shop-owmers.
It is possible that the Communists might develop into a potent force in
Japan and conceivably take over the Government at a general election,
perhaps four years hence.
3. The Yoshida Covernment is undoubtedly aiming to throttle the
Japanese labor movement curing the present Diet session. It is believed
that the Yoshida Government is purposely doing little to curb the spread
of Communism with the hope that Comrunist activities will become so
obnoxious that the Government would have no difficulty in securing Diet
acceptance to restrictive labor legislation.
In answer to Mr. Saltzman's inquiry about the attitude of unions
other than those of government workers towards the National Public Ser-
vice Law, Mr. Gibson replied that there was' opposition to the law by
all unions because to them it represented (1) the first move to curb
the gains macde by labor since the end of the war and (2) an anti-union
attitude on the part of SCAP.
Mr. Sullivan asked what were the points in the NPSL, other than
its penal provisions, to which the unions were opposed. Mr. Gibson
mentioned the outlawing of collective bargaining and the right to
strike, although, ne said, there was a feeling that the unions would
accept a ban on strikes if collective bargaining and compulsory
arbitration were set up instead. He added that there was some mention
made in Japan that the NPSL was in violation of the Japanese constitution.
(Act 28 of the Constitution states: "The right of workers to organize
and to bargain and act collectively is guaranteed.")
Mr. Parnett asked if Japanese labor leaders regarded SCAP or
the Japanese conservatives as being responsible for the NPSL. Mr.
Gibson said that they consider both to be responsible, but place most
of the blame on the SCAP top staff. ir. Earnett inquired further
whether SCAP intervention in the revisions of labor legislation that
are contemplated by the Yoshida Covernment would embarass SCAP or
increase SCAP's prestige among labor leaders. Lir. Gibson replied that
such intervention would enhance SCAP's prestige, and, furthermore, if
SCAP should reverse itself and require the Japanese Government to reduce
the work week to 40 hours for government workers, SCAP would gain much
popularity from this group. ir. Gibson added that the attitude of the
Labor Division had prevented more repressive amendments to Japanese
labor laws than were actually submitted.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
3
In reply to Mr. Sullivan's query whether General MacArthur was
fully acquainted with the NPSL, Mr. Cibson said that he felt the General
was not. Mr. Gibson said that there was some evidence that the SCAP
top staff had not divulged to General MacArthur the actual provisions
of the law. For example, General MacArthur's staff had said that there
were no penal provisions in the law while Mr. Gibson was able to point
out these provisions to the General and analyze their implications for
him.
Mr. Parnett inquired if the achievement of wage stabilization in
Japan would result in more effective utilization of Japanese labor or
in widespread unemployment. fr. Gibson said that he had seen little
evidence that Japanese industrialists were reducing their staffs to
eliminate the underemployment of their workers despite SCAP desires in
the matter. As yet the Japanese have not. developed real public works and
relief programs to take care of unemployment that would develop.
Mr. Allison asked what would be the attitude of American labor
towards American imports of Japanese goods on an increasing basis, re-
sulting from a need to maximize dollar exchange. Mr. Gibson replied that
the best way to reduce the prejudices of American labor would be to have a
group of American labor leaders go to Japan. Likewise some Japanese
labor leaders should come to the U.S. as soon as possible and meet with
American labor groups. He said that an American trade union mission to
Japan is now being planned and the idea had not encountered any opposition
from General macArthur.
The interchange of labor leaders is one of a series of recommend-
ations that Mr. Gibson is sending to General MacArthur at the latter's
request. ther recommendations that Mr. Gibson said he was making are:
1. The elimination of the appointment of Communists to govern-
ment labor mediation posts and the recognition of moderate labor leaders
by appointing them to these posts. Likewise the size of these labor
mediation groups shoula be reduced.
2. Immediate revision of the NPSL to eliminate its objectionable
features, as described above.
3. A minimum wage law which would fix a floor on wages at a
reasonable level.
4. Support the Democratization League which has three noteworthy
principles: (a) anti-communism; (b) anti-company unionism; and (c) cooper-
ation with management to increase production.
5. The person who will become top labor advisor for General
MacArthur should be a member of the American trade union mission to Japan.
He should not be appointed labor advisor until after he had gained
General MacArthur's confidence as a member of the mission. As labor
advisor he shoulu be attached to the Labor Division.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFiDENTIAL
4
6. If there are to be amendments to Japanese labor laws they
should be done as soon as possible because there have been some errors
made in the existing legislation and because while Occupation authority
exists in Japan, restrictive amencments can be curbed. Some of the spec-
ific amendments that might be made would be (1) to require all unions
to have by-laws and constitutions, (2) to establish election procedures
for choosing collective bargaining representatives, and (3) to require
democratic elections for filling union offices.
OIR:DRF:SNehmer:dh
CONFiDENTIAL

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: March 1, 1949
SUBJECT:
Recent developments in the Japanese Labor Situation
894.504/3
PARTICIPANTS:
Department of Labor
John W. Gibson, Assistant Secretary
Philip Kaiser, Director, Office of International
Labor Affairs
Department of State
3-1
Mr. Charles E. Saltzman, Assistant Secretary
Mr. Philander P. Claxton, O
C.
4
Mr. J. Franklin Ray, O
人
6
Mr. Dallas W. Dort, E
Mr. Robert W. Barnett, OFD
Mr. John M. Allison, FE
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton, FE
Mr. Max W. Bishop, NA
1-1408
Mr. William G. Jones, ED
MAR 1 5 1949
Mr. Philip B. Sullivan, ILS
FILED
Mr. Stanley Nehmer, DRF
COPIES TO:
CS
To State Department participants
A/1
This meeting was called in order to acquaint interested
Department officers with the results of Lir. Gibson's trip to Japan
in February and with his conclusions on recent developments affect-
ing the Japanese labor situation.
Mr. Gibson began his discussion by describing the development
of the labor movement under the Occupation and made the following
major comments on the present situation:
1. About 60 peroent of the top union leadership are either
Communists or Communist-sympathizers. Yet the Government has brought
w
these leaders into government posts as labor representatives on
24571
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
2
2. The inauguration of the 48-hour work week for government workers
shortly before the January election was a significant factor in driving
government workers to support the Communists. The recent swing to the
left in Japan was the result of the support of the Communist Party not
only by governnent workers, but also by educators and small shop-owners.
It is possible that the Communists might develop into a potent force in
Japan and conceivably take over the Government at a general election,
perhaps four years hence.
3. The Yoshida Government is undoubtedly aiming to throttle the
Japanese labor movement during the present Diet session. It is believed
that the Yoshida Goverrment is purposely doing little to curb the spread
of Coamunism with the hope that Communist activities will become so
obnoxious that the Government would have no difficulty in securing Diet
acceptance to restrictive labor legislation.
In answer to Mr. Saltzman's inquiry about the attitude of unions
other than those of govermnent workers towards the National Publio Ser-
vice Law, Mr. Gibson replied that there was opposition to the law by
all unions because to them it represented (1) the first move to curb
the gains made by labor since the end of the war and (2) an anti-union
attitude on the part of SCAP.
Mr. Sullivan asked what were the points in the NPSL, other than
its penal provisions, to which the unions were opposed. ir. Gibson
mentioned the outlawing of collective bargaining and the right to
strike, although, he said, there was a feeling that the unions would
accept a ban on strikes if collective bargaining and compulsory
arbitration were set up instead. He added that there was some mention
made in Japan that the NPSL was in violation of the Japanese constitution.
(Act 28 of the Constitution states: "The right of workers to organize
and to bargain and act collectively is guaranteed.")
Mr. Barnett asked if Japanese labor leaders regarded SCAP or
the Japanese conservatives as being responsible for the NPSL. Mr.
Gibson said that they consider both to be responsible, but place most
of the blame on the SCAP top staff. Mr. Barnett inquired further
whether SCAP intervention in the revisions of labor legislation that
are contomplated by the Yoshida Government would embarass SCAP or
increase SCAP's prestige among labor leaders. Mr. Gibson replied that
such intervention would enhance SCAP's prestige, and, furthermore, if
SCAP should reverse itself and require the Japanese Government to reduce
the work week to 40 hours for government workers, SCAP would gain much
popularity from this group. Mr. Gibson added that the attitude of the
Labor Division had prevented more repressive amendments to Japanese
labor laws than were actually submitted.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
3
In reply to Mr. Sullivan's query whether General MacArthur was
fully acquainted with the NPSL, Mr. Gibson said that he felt the General
was not. Mr. Gibson said that there was some evidence that the SCAP
top staff had not divulged to General MacArthur the actual provisions
of the law. For example, General MacArthur's staff had said that there
were no penal provisions in the law while Mr. Gibson was able to point
out these provisions to the General and analyze their implications for
him.
Mr. Barnett inquired if the achievement of wage stabilization in
Japan would result in more effective utilization of Japanese labor or
in widespread unemployment. Mr. Gibson said that he had seen little
evidence that Japanese industrialists were reducing their staffs to
eliminate the underemployment of their workers despite SCAp desires in the
matter. As yet the Japanese have not developed real public works and
relief programs to take care of unemployment that would develop.
Mr. Allison asked what would be the attitude of American labor
towards American imports of Japanese goods on an increasing basis, re-
sulting from a need to maximize dollar exchange. Mr. Gibson replied that
the best way to reduce the prejudices of American labor would be to have
a group of American labor leaders go to Japan. Likewise same Japanese
labor leaders should come to the U.S. as soon as possible and meet with
American labor groups. He said that an American trade union mission to
Japan is now being planned and the idea had not enoountered any opposition
from General MecArthur.
The interchange of labor leaders is one of a series of recommend-
ations that r. Gibson is sending to General MacArthur at the latter's
request. Other recomaendations that Mr. Gibson said he was making are:
1. The elimination of the appointment of Communists to government
labor mediation posts and the recognition of moderate labor leaders by
appointing them to these posts. Likewise the size of these labor media-
tion groups should be reduced.
2. Immediate revision of the NPSL to eliminate its objeotionable
features, as described above.
3. A minimum wage law which would fix a floor on wages at a
reasonable level.
4. Support the Democratization League which has three noteworthy
prinoiples: (a) anti-communism; (b) anti-company unionism; and (c) cooper-
ation with management to increase production.
5. The person who will become top labor advisor for General
MacArthur should be a member of the American trade union mission to Japan.
He should not be appointed labor advisor until after he has gained
General acArthur's confidence as a member of the mission. As labor
advisor he should be attached to the Labor Division.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
4
6. If there are to be amendments to Japanese labor laws they
should be done as soon as possible because there have been some errors
made in the existing legislation and because while Occupation authority
exists in Japan, restrictive amendments can be curbed. Some of the spec-
ific amendments that might be made would be (1) to require all unions
to have by-laws and constitutions, (2) to establish election procedures
for choosing collective bargaining representatives, and (3) to require
democratic elections for filling union offices.
OIR:DRF:SNehmer:dh
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
NA file
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
FE - Mr. Butterworth
TO
DATE: March 18, 1949
FE - Mr. Allison
FROM
: NA - Mr. B1shop 
HS
SUBJECT:
Mr. Barnett informed me last night that Mr. Bullock of the
Australian Delegation to the FEC has submitted to the joint
committee considering labor in Japan the following proposed
policy decision:
"The Far Eastern Commission, bearing in mind that 1
1s a matter for the occupation authorities in Japan to
decide when strikes and other work stoppages should be
prohibited as directly prejudicing the objectives or needs
of the occupation, decides as a matter of policy that the
provisions of FEC-O45/5 should be applied to workers in
Japanese government enterprises."
This proposed policy decision was supported enthusiastially
by all members except the United States, Philippines and the UsSR
said that his purpose in putting in a suggested policy paper
to the FEC was solely to attempt something constructive and
8
avoid harping criticism of the occupation. He also hoped thi
49
the Soviet tactics of forcing FEC members to vote against
proposals which they and their governnnts, at least in part,
favor could be circumvented. I had not then before me the
Australian proposal, but I did take occasion to point out
emphatically to Mr. Bullock what I considered to be some of
the practicalities of the situation. I emphasized that Japan
is a dynamic nation of 80 million people, with growing popula-
tion; that Japan would not remain static and would either seek
a better place in the world through cooperation and friendship
with the United States and like-minded nations or would move
toward and eventually join the Communist power system in an
effort to gain that better place; that we had to consider not
only economic and political conditions in Japan and their
control and development under the occupation, but also their
control and development by the Japenese leaders themselves after
the occupation is terminated; that we had been, if not foolish,
at least overzealous in destroying much of Japan's traditional
social relationships and had ignored Japanese experience in
handling the difficult problem of labor relations; that we had
gone much too far, in my opinion, in giving Japanese Communists
a golden opportunity to exploit Japanese labor by failing to
CS/H
inculcate
a
4.
CONFIDENTIAL
HH
e
Cat.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
inculcate responsibilities along with extension of rights; and
that Australia, a white country nearby Asia which was rapidly
becoming Communist, should have the greatest apprehension re-
garding the possibilities that Japen might throw its destiny
into the Communiat power system.
I believe that before the question of the handling of this
labor problem gets entirely out of hand it would be desirable
to call in the representatives of the friendly FEC governments
and to talk to them frankly and firmly along the following
lines:
1. The United States from the outset took the initiative
and responsibility in bringing to Japan progressive reforms.
The United States has no intention of relinquishing its leader-
ship in that connection or of allowing the Japanese to abandon
the besic principles of those reforms.
2. The Japanese must be allowed ever-increasing measure
of responsibility and initiative as they proceed to assimilate
and adapt the basic principles of those reforms and accordingly
the Far Eastern Commisslon should avoid any attempt to dictate
the implementation or administration of reform measures in Japan.
The Japanese Public Service Law, just as any other law, is subject
to amendment by the Japsnese legislative process and the Far
Eastern Commission should allow this process full liberty and
freedom from interference.
3. The various FEC governments can communicate to SCAP
such views as they may have regarding the handling of the labor
problem in Japan, either through this government or perhaps
more appropriately through their representatives in Japan, but
they should bear in mind that the responeibility for handling
such difficult problems must remain in the hands of the authori-
ties in Japan, SCAP and the Japanese government. The United
States Government 1tself will make known to SCAP 1ts own views
regarding this difficult situation and will offer to SCAP and
to the Japanese Government all appropriate assistance to assure
that, in the light of prevailing conditions, there is the broadest
possible application of approved policies for the development
of free trade union movements within Japan not subject to Com-
munist infiltration and manipulation.
4. The FEC should decide that the basic principles regarding
labor in Japan were fully set forth in FEC O45/5, that the
1mplementation of those principles must be left to SCAP and the
Japanese Governnent and that those governments who wish to advise
SCAP
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
一3-
SCAP, or the Japanese Government through SCAP, may do so through
regular channels. The United States, while supporting the
fullest possible rights and privileges for labor, must and will
support SCAP and not permit any action detracting directly or
indirectly from SCAP prestige and authority.
FE:NA:MWB1shop/pm
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.93)
J01532
MAY131949
In reply refer to
ILS 894.504/3-3149
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I have received your letter of Maroh 31, 1949
and have noted and read with great interest the
attached report concerning the labor situation in
Japan prepared by Mr. Gibson. In view of the fact
894.504/3-3149
that Ar. Webb has already talked with Mr. Gibson
concerning the recommendations contained in this
report, I have asked him to handle this matter for
the Department.
Sincerely yours,
WHy
ES
The Honorable
Maurice Tobin,
Seoretary of Labor.
BS
PHN
CS/H
ITP:ILS:PBSullivan:apg
s/s
4/29/49
ITP
Cos
3-3149
MAY 13 1949
5/n

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.95)
amR ra-File
SECRET
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE: Apr11 13, 1949
FROM : NA - Mr. Bishop
SUBJECT:
Possible U.S. Labor Mission to Japan
XR
894.5043
At the luncheon this noon Mr. Gibson was shown the telegrams
from General MacArthur and Mr. Dod ge advising strongly against
the sending of an official U.s. labor mission to Japan at this
time. It was obvious that Mr. Gibson's initial reaction to
these telegrams was unfavorable. He immediately said that he
did not believe that we should rely solely on Genral MacArthur
and Mr. Dodge for an evaluation of the probable effect of sending
1-7
such a mission. He added that he felt that the labor situation
in Japan is critical and that a program should be developed at
22
89
the "grass roots" level to combat Communiem; that something
should be done to assure that the labor movement in Japan
4.504/4-1
developed favorably to the United States; that he would estimate
that at least 60 per cent of the top leadership of the labor
movement in Japan at the present time is Communist or Communist-
controlled; that the Department of Labor had explored rather
carefully the question of a mission to Japan and had in mind
a mission of perhape five "top flight" persons, including one
woman; and that he felt that to get a "grass roots" program
started in Japan it would be desirable to use such a miesion
for the springboard and to plan for a Japanese mission to the
United States.
4
6
Mr. Voorhees said that the Army was faced with the practical
problem of how to reply to the incoming cables; that the Depart-
ment of the Army and particularly Secretary Royall had sought
the advice and assistance of the Department of Labor and were
C
anxious to work out this problem with Labor and State as a team;
S
D
that, speaking in strictest confidence, Secretary Royall might
W
be leaving the Department of the Army shortly and accordingly
might be disposed to take a stronger stand vis-a-vie General
MacArthur than would be the case of a new Secretary of Army
who would be inclined to be more cautious at least at the
outset; and that he would appreciate it if Mr. Gibson would take
the cables to Secretary Tobin, discuss the oroblem with which
we are all faced, and perhaps invite reuresentatives from State
and Army to discues it at Secretary Tobin's convenience.
Mr. Voorhees, during the course of the discussion, suggested
that perhaps one way to avoid the embarrassing difficulties
S
of sending an official labor miseion to Japan would be for him
to take along on a trip which he is planning in the near future
2
4
to Japan several labor advisers of the caliber Mr. Gibson had
4
in mind. It was indicated that Mr. Voorhees prcbably would be
going to Japan some time during May.
G
FILE
4
Mr. West
h
SECRET
Rev.
Cat.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2-
Mr. West pointed out that he felt very strongly that we
should not send an official labor mission to Japan in the face
of the objections which have been raised by General MacArthur
and Mr. Dodge.
Upon being asked what I thought of this problem, I emphasized
that the Department of State was very cognizant of the difficulties
which we face from the developing labor situation in Japan; that
we believe that something constructive must be done to correct
present unfortunate trends which are not only causing us diffi-
culties with other countries in the Far Eastern Commission but
are also detrimental to our position in Japan and are bringing
forth uncomplimentary statements from important sections of publio
opinion in this country. I added that the Department, however,
could not help but be impressed by the arguments which General
MacArthur and Mr. Dodge had put forth against the sending of an
official labor mission at this time; that we are all well aware
that conditions in Japen at present are turbulent and there is
a growing feeling of tenseness which could easily be further
aggravated or disturbed by the fanfare which would accompany the
sending of an official labor mission to Japan. Accordingly we
would be reluctant to push ehead the sending of an official
labor mission without considerable further exploration of this
problen with General MacArthur and Mr. Dodge, particularly
as we must of necessity rely to a large measure upon the evaluation
of the man on the spot in assessing the probable reaction to
a step of this sort. I referred again to the feeling in the
Department of State that something must be done in a constructive
way to improve the labor situation in Japan and suggested that
perhaps if the Department of Labor could select, and the Department
of the Aray send to Japan, one or more labor advisers who would
have our confidence as well as that of SCAP and who could imme-
diately set to work on the sort of "rass roots" program Mr. Gibson
had in mind the situation might be improved and the disturbing
elements which Mr. Dodge and General MacArthur envisaged avoided.
At the end of the luncheon Mr. Gihson said that he would
discuss the matter with Secretary Tobin and get in touch with
Mr. West. As I was leaving Mr. Voorhees emphasized that the
Department of the Army wanted to work as a team with State and
Labor on this matter and hoped tha: satisfactory arrangements
could be worked out.
After leaving the Pentagon Mr. Gibson emphasized to me the
great danger which he felt lay in the labor movement in Japan
if Communist influence were not offset and & real program to
win over the labor movement undertaken. He said his estimate
of 60 per cent Communist leadership was probably too small.
He expressed
SECRET

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
-3-
He expressed great apprehension at the attitude of complaceney.
which he had found in SCAp Headquarters regarding this problem.
I told Mr. Gibson that I would be inclined to share his appre-
hension regarding growing Communist influence and the potential
dangers of the labor movement in Japan under such influence
and that I too had found far too much complacenoy in SCAP
Headquarters when I was out there.
mB
FE:NA:MWB1shop/pm
SECRET

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.98)
000411
ACTION
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
is assigned to
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
March 31, 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
SUCIAL AFFASIES
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.504/3-3149
Assistant Secretary of Labor John W. Gibson
has recently returned from Japan, where he surveyed
the general labor situetion and the trade union
movement. Attached is a copy of Mr. Gibson's report
on this trip.
I fully endorse Mr. Gibson's report and urge
that most serious consideration be given to his rec-
ommenaations.
Mr. Gibson has discussed his trip vith Under
Secretary Webb and has sent him a copy of the report.
If you desire, Mr. Gibson will be glad to discuss this
mattewith you at your convenience.
R
Maurice Blui
Yours very truly,
3
A/VVL
Secretary of Vabor
Attachment
LEPARTMENT OF STATE
c.aims
VVL
035431

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRE
REPORT OF JOHN W GIBSON, ASSISTEINT SBCRETARY OF LAMOS
This repert ls premteaed an the fallaming hesle shote
be implemented if this policy is to have a reasonable chamce of teans
succesaful.
LAHOR LAW REXISION
I strongly urge revision in this session of the Diet of the
general labor laws of Japan and, in partioular, the National Publie
Service Law.
cAP should wield strong influence and make available te the
Diet the experience of the United tates and other demecratic natiems 
labor problems.
A competent member of tha Labor Division staff should be
assigned to aid and assist the Diet during consideration of the revisiem
of labor laws. It is essential to seni copies of all laber laws and 
revision of the National Publio Servics Law to the United States for
comment and advice prior to imtveduction in the Diet.
GENERAL LAOR LANS
These Laws have worked fairly satisfactorily. It seems advisable,
however, to make revisions along the following general liness
1. There should be enaoted a system providing for seoret
ballot elections to determine which union, if any, empleyees
desire as their representative.
2. Some revisions desi ned to encourage democratic prastiees
by unions would seem desirable.
COMMMICATIONS HORLERS
The inelusion of this group of operating employees umder the
National Publio Service Law depriving them of the right to bargaim eellee-
tively and enter into collective bargaining agreements contimmes te create
mush comcern, not only in the United States, but im Japan as well. This
industry is privately operated in the United States and the werkers emjey
particularly railroads. There is no sound justificatien fer keeping them
in their present status. I strongly urge they be givem the same righss and
privileges as railroad workers and workers in other monopolies, and that they

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
REPORT OF JOHN  GIBSON, ASSISTINT SECRTARY OF LABOR
be taken out of the jurisdiction of the Nutional Public Service Law.
The proponents for keepin them under the National Publio Bervioe Law
say that it had to be done for security reasona. Since all Govermment
workers aro denied the right to strike, and since this involves the
question of their rights to bargain collectively and enter into agre
ments, I fail to sos the validity of tiat argument.
ADMINISTRATIV PHOCSA
1. The tri-partite character of labor-management relutions
boar. shouli be retained.
2. A 21-member boar- seems overly larte and unwialdy. It
woule seem desirablo to reduce the size of the board.
3. Forty-six profeccural boaras shoul be roduced to a
small number o regional boards (possibly 9 to 12).
4. It may be alvisable, en stuy houla be iven to the
question o. confinin the responsibility for making quasi-
judicial cocisions to public members of the board. The
experience un ler tri-partite boaris in the adjustment of
labor-managenent disputes warrants sheir continuation.
HAGS CONTROLS AND THA SCOHOMIO SPABILILION POGRAN
It 1a undesirable to limit th: ri ht to strike in private industry
uring this period of economic stabililation. ecent effectivenees dis-
play by ths labor office in aijustin. strikes ana lisputes with the
prestige of SCAP seems ade uate.
Wage controls unaer the present program, whereby you prevent
rice inereasos, subsiiies an ficit inancin to compensate for wage
Incrsuses should force industry to practice tenuine collective bargaining.
However, the rigi ity of this pro ran with no machinery to aujust wage
ine uities is bound to cause strikes an! explosive situations, or collusion
between labor and management.
Whenever strict cconomie conscels ure beine drawn up, provision
shoula bo made for floxibilisy an si opportumic, for adjustmenes. Other-
wise, tive rigi! controls break own.
I recommen the acoption of a pro ram or price increases or
subsi les to make possible the lollovin  ju tments:
1. To compensate or ineceae in the cost of living
2. To corpect inepuiti s in the vago structure;
3. To correet substanluris  Livings or
4. To maintain ossential o uction.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.94)
a.ncas
REPORT OF JO W GDSON, KET SECARTARY OF LA
Dader sech a pregram priee increases or subsádies would be grented
emly te the extent required by mage iaoreases for the abeve perpeses.
During the war, and imediately follewing the war, the Babted
pregram in order to make it workable. The Eoonomic Stability Aet of
1949, now pending before the Congress contains these same eriterle fer
wage adjustments.
The present basis for price detormimation ia Japam wall leed
to wage inequities, since some industrius have substantial emshéems è
of which to grant wage adjustmonts ana others do not. An overall and
careful study seems advisable.
L8 HOUR WERK KOR GOVERNMNT MPLOY ES
This drastic and abrupt change in the fase of unemplegmest s
totally unjustified. I strongly urge that immediately the wertweek fes
Government employees be reduced to not more than a net 40-hear weakseek
and that contimued study be given to determime whether a further reduesiem
in the workweek is advisable. (If this is done, using the reaseming
that unemployment is a justification, it would prove most helpful im re
gaining the confidence of the Japanese workers.)
COMMISM IN JAPANESE UNIONS
Many top union positions in Jupan are occupled by Commumists,
or by people following the Communist Party line. This situatiom has gremm
to marious proportions and shoul receive immediate attentiom. I resommend
as followss
1. That a committee of prominent trace union Leaders from the
United tates as proposed by Secretary Tobin be sent to Japan immediately
with an adequate secretariat anu staff. That they tour Japem visit with
Japanese labor Leaders, and speak to labor audiences, in an effort to
improve democratic practices in Japanese trale unions and expese the
techmiques an: practices of the Communists.
2. That resources, such as paper, mimeograph machines, primsing
and other essentials be made available to anti-Communist forees working
inside the Labor movement in Japan.
3. Discontinuance of the practice of appointing Commumiste to
Govermment positions, but have Labor given adeyuate resogmitiem threugh
non-Communist, gemuinely democratic labor leaders.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-4 -
REPORT OF JOHN  GIBSON, ASSISTNIT LTARY OF LABOR
Leaders of the Democratization League and other Anti-Communist leaders
should recoive recognition
4. That churches an  other appropriate outside organisations
be utilized.
MINIMUM WAGE
Because of the wio spreaa in Ja anese wage levels and becauso
of the total inadeyuacy of present Japanese wages from the point of view
of staniard of livino, I woulu strongly urge tho enactment of a minimum
wage, maximum straight time hour law to help alleviate the suffering and
low wage level of workors.
EXCHANG, OF TRADA UNIONISTS
I strongly rocommen: that  pro ram o senaing Japanese trade
unionists to the Unitei tates be inaugurated immeiiately. Under this
plan, Japanese tra le unionista woul be place, for periods of three or
four months in comparable merican unions (1.., Japanese toxtile workers
in an American textile union). The Japanese would thus be able to observe
at first hand how free, lomocratic trele unionism operates. They would
soe how shop stewards handle grievances, how collective bargaining works,
how union meetings are con ucted, ho" nion officers are cemocratically
electod, etc. I firmly balieve ts this is an effective way to instill
democratic principles in Jepanese trace nions an: hence in the entire
Japanese society.
1/ The advisability of completely eliminatin Comaunism is a question
of tactics. e should avoi mking martyre ut of them. Therefore, as
a matter of tactics tho irst tepe shoul: bo to reduce thom to a minimum
but perhaps not aliminate tiem ontirel/.
2/ I shall make sneci ic cecommen tions on the N tional Public Service
Law after it has been caref lly analyue: by our legal stafl una by our
administrative personnel people tor purmoses of comparison with the Civil
Service Act here in the Unitea tats.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
DATE: 4-6-49
TO
: MG
FROM : WWB
SUBJECT:
Since Max Bishop is preoccupied
with the Departmental reorganization
matters, I am addressing this memorandum
to you with respect to the attached
copy of Gibson's letter of March 31.
7P
What I want to know is who has the
original of this letter; has it been
answered; and if Secretary Tobin has
communicated with Secretary Acheson,
has that communication received attention?
Have we sent a copy of these communi-
cations to Sebald vith a request for his
views? What do we propose to do with
respect to Mr. Gibson's recommendations?
FE:WButterworth:mss

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.95)
Am/R
001558
STANDARD FORM NO.
May 11, 1949
DATB:
To : U -  r.  ebb
THROUGH: 3/0
FROM : F - :r. Butterworth
SUBJECT :
I think you mi ht care to  ive the
attached a lance in view of r. Gibson's
ca l upon you on his return from Japan.
You will recall that the confidence he
expressed that ne had obtained certain
satisfactory assurances fron CAF is not
entirely shared by us.
Your attention is invited in particu-
lar to the final page of the accompanying
memorandum.
I wat recenned is an
Attachnent:
SECRET FILE
Fa: Butterworth:mss:br
SECRET
5/12

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.95)
deelr
CONFIDENTIAL
tile
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
STATE
Memorandum of Coniversation
APR 201949
ON C
DATE: Apr11 19, 1949
SUBJECT:
Proposed Policy Decision on Labor Situation in Japan
Submitted by Australian Government to FEC
Australian Inspection of Japanese Sodium Anhydride Process
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. H. W. Bullock, Second Secretary, Australian Embassy
Mr. J. M. Allison, Deputy Director, FE
Mr. M. W. Bishop, Chief, NA
88
5
4.504/4-19
COPIES TO:
FE
NA
BC
US POLAD, Tokyo
9
1-1488
4
Mr. Bullock called by appointment on Mr. Allison this after-
6
noon. Mr. Allison said that before taking up the matter on
which he had asked Mr. Bullock to come in to see him he was
glad to be able to inform Mr. Bullock that word had just been
received from Tokyo tha all arrangements had been made for the
Australians to inspect the Japanese sodium anhydride process.
Mr. Allison then went on to say thet he wished to discuss
the proposed policy decision which the Australian representative
had made to the Far Eastern Commission in regard to the labor
situation in Japen -- specifically that the earlier FEC policy
C
S
couched in general terms was applicable to workers in Japanese
A
Government enterprises. Mr. Allison said tht we were all
disturbed over the labor situation in Japen; thet the Assistant
Secretery of Labor, Mr. Gibson, had recently made a trip to
Japan to look over the situation; tht he had found that at
least 60 per cent of the top leadershi in the trade union move-
ment in Japan was Communist or Communist-controlled; that there
was growing tenseness in the siturtion in Jepan, both political
ana economic; and th:t while we recognized fully that there
were many different ways of handling this question and t at it
was handled differently by different countries we must rely
upon the authorities on the spot to assess and evaluate the
situation with which they are faced. Mr. Allison explained
at some
C
CONFIDENTIAL
145721

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
at some length that we appreciated the good motives which lay
back of the Australian proposal but that nevertheless if such a
proposal were adopted it would be a repudiation of SCAP's action
and a serious derogation of his authority and prestige which
the United States could not allow to happen. Accordingly, if
the Australien proposal were to be placed before the Commission
for a vote the United States would be impelled to vote against
it because of the highly serious and unfavorable reperoussions
such as increased labor strife, perhaps leading to riot and
civil disturbance, which would follow.
Mr. Allison added that the United States was concerned
equally with all other countries in the development of a sound
trade union movement in Japen. The United States, as were per-
haps other countries, was making known its views to the Supreme
Commander. It is our hope that the situation in Japan can be
alleviated through appropriate but unspectacular changes in
the Japanese laws and regulations without action by the Far
Eastern Commission.
Mr. Bullock said that his and like-minded governments had
been embarrassed by the position taken and the remarks made
by the Soviet member. In meking their proposal they had sought
merely to offset the Soviet proposals, some of which they quite
naturally supported, by presenting as innocuous a statement as
possible; thet the Australian Government would undoubtedly want
to give the most serious consideration to the probable reper-
cussions which the United States felt would follow from a policy
decision such as they had prepared; and that he was confident
that the Australian Government would not want to do anything
to derogate the prestige and authority of SCAP.
Mr. Allison re-emphasized that the United States shared
the concern of other governments nd recognized the particular
interest of such governments as Australia and Great Britain
which are under control of labor parties and that we would con-
tinue to welcome any suggestions which those governments might
have to make. Mr. Allison said that it had just occurred to
him that something in the way of a "consultative message" might
be worked out as a possible solution to the difficulties in
the Far Eastern Commission.
In conclusion Mr. Allison expressed the hope that we could
avoid the embarrassment of having to vote ageinst the Australian
proposal in the Far Eastern Commission and that we could reach
agreement among ourselves on some solution which would not
be apt to bring the undesirable repercussions in Japan which
we felt would follow if the Australian proposal were adopted.
mmuug
FE:NA:MVB1shop/pm
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.90)
JMA
WUR
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
NA
OFFICE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
21 April 1949
FAR LA:
1949
Mr. W. Walton Butterworth
Director for Fer Eastern Affeirs
Department of State
Weshington 25 , D. C.
Deer Mr. Butterworth:
Feference is made to your letter to Mr. Voorhees in
which you inclosed : dr: ft cable to be dispatched to
SCAP, recuesting certsin informetion concerning Japenese
unemployment as a result of the United Ststes Interim
894.504/4-2149
Directive of 10 December 1948.
SCAP's reply (CM IN 16330) to this cable was sent
to your office on April 13, 1949. I trust that the infor-
mation contained therein is adecuate.
Sincerely yours,
llst.
f002+
FOBERT R. WEST
Deputy to
Assistant Secretery of the Army
/R
FILED
AN
in
C1)
工
2
1.
X 100
5

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
1012
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT QF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF CÔMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Fils
RESTRIC TED
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
 DIVISION OF
PRIORITY
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
From:
SCAP Tokyo Japan
APR 1 3 1949
To:
Dept of Army for CSCAD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Nr:
C 69221
£3^Apr 49
Reurad w 86572, dated 2nd Apri1 49.
1. Reference part 1 paragraph B (1) and (2), the
present number of unemployed is roughly estimated at 500,000
to 1,000,000. Present surveys are acourate only within this
rage. Because of special characteristics of the Japanese
Exonomy the totally unemployed consists chiefly of persons
in the wage earner group representing attrition or displace-
Central
C/R 894.5
ment from paid employment. A very large number of people no
classifiable as unemployed are marginally employed in Agri
oulture enterprises.
2. Reference part 1 paragraph B (3), Labor Ministry
estimates 1,200,000 to 1,700,000 will be additionally unem-
ployed during the coming fiscal year, of which 400,000 due to
dministrative reforms, 300,000 to 600,000 to private 1ndusty
readjustment through implementation of exonomic stabilization
Q4/4-2149
program, 200,000 repatriates, 100,000 school graduates and 
200,000 to 400,000 part time employees whom the Labor Ministry
anticipates will not be absorbed. If present trends and de-
veloping plans for implementation of the program are consid-
sred the actual number of unemployed should be considerably
less than the Labor Ministry estimate as indicated below:
A. Current plans on administrative adjustment
indicate that aotual government personnel reductions may be
 10w as 100,000.
B. Add1t1onal unemployment of 200,000 to 300,000
for private industry appears a more reasonable expeotation
besed on the following factors:
(1) Possibility of higher single exohange rate
CM IN 16330
(13 Apr 49)
JUL 1 4 1952
CS/
DC/R
FILED
inal Hu
工
4.2149
RESTRICTED
DA SCO FORM
22-4
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1948-O-811947

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
LASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT QF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
0 69221
Page 2
than that used for earlier caloulations suggest & reduoed
impaot on the Labor Ministry estimates. In addition, pro
bable granting of temporary subsidy in certain export in-
dustries, inoreased efricienoy, and other factors may re-
duse this number to negligible proportion.
(2) Concentration of allooation of raw ma-
terials 1s in process in cotton consumer goods and my be
extended progressively to other industries. The effeots
on unemployment, even if the concentration program were
maximized, are less than Labor Ministry sssumes.
C. The estimates for repatriates, sohool gredu-
ates and part time workers are merely approximations and
uhould be cons1dered a maoimum. From the 200,00 to 300,000
edditional unemployed is considered more reasonable.
D. Assuming present unemployment of 500,000 to
1,000,000 add1t1onal unemp1oyment of 500,000 to 700,000
would not present a major problem. Under existing condi-
t1ons 1t is likely that even up to 1,700,000 additional un-
ouployment of an 18,000,000 Japanese non-agrioultural labor
force would not create major exonomio or political diffioul-
ties. Reevaluation of these estimates would be necessary
if signifioant economio or political developments bring a-
tout substantial ohanges in proposed implementation of eo-
onomic stabilization program.
3. Reference Part 1, pagragraph C, no aocurate
statistios are available. The folloving measures are under
development to solve unemployment problems:
A. If economio stabilization programs 9 points
are effectively implemented it is assumed that much labor
will be absorbed and unemployment lessened by inoreased
produotion and inoreased export of goods.
B. Publio works conoentration to date on cons-
CM IN 16330
(13 Apr 49)
DA SCO FORM
22-4
RESTRICTED
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
LASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
KINCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
0 69221
Page 3
truction projeots is being replaoed by attention on reorus
ment so that projects may aid not only in economio rehabilt
tation but in absorption of unemployed. In addition, plamm
are in preparation for a separate work relief program when
and if necessary which is specirically designed to employ
laid off workers. The programs projects will be initiated
only where the need is proved in extensive unemployment arees
and plans for quiok discontinuance without exonomio waste.
C. Existing unemployment insurance designed to
care for a maximum of 400,000 to 500,000 at 1 time; about
21,000 are presently receiving benefits. Separation allow-
ances would be a cushioning factor for those laid off after
considerable years of service from industries having such
allowances. Only about 1/3 of the industrial labor force is
covered under unemployment insurance. However, Japanese
government proposes to revise the unemployemtn insurance law
ty raising average benefit rates and extending coverage to
some industries now not covered, such as construotion which
employs many casual laborers who are most subject to unem-
ployment.
D. Labor Ministry instruoted publio employment
security offices to keep well informed on layoffs, to try to
locate other employment before layoffs ocour and assist those
govered under unemployment insurance apply for benefits.
E. The Labor Ministry is developing a program
for interarea clearance of workers for transfers from areas
of supply to areas of demand. Japanese labor is not mobile
ty nature and it is quite difrioult to persuade workers to
leave areas. Shortage of housing makes it difrioult to
transfer workers, therefore interarea clearance is limited
ss a solution to unemployment.
ACTION: CAD
INFO:
CAD (STATE), OAS. CSA
CM IN 16330
(13 Apr 49) DTG: 130619z fmb/B
RESTRICTED
DA SCO FORM
22-4
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE198 - O-B11947

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
JMA
WWB
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
NA
OFFICE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Rel to 
WJS
WASHINGTON, D. C.
MAY 24 1949
11 May 1949
Honorable W. Walton Butterworth
Director, Office of Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Butterworth:
894.504/5-
Following discussion with members of your staff of the
Australian resolution now before the Steering Committee of the
Far Eastern Commission concerning workers in Japanese government
enterprises, we dispatched a cable (WAR 87868) on 28 April to
The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. This cable outlined
a proposed U.S. course of action designed to deal with the
Australian resolution and requested the views of SCAP as to the
appropriateness of the steps set forth in the proposal.
We have now received a reply (C-69705, dated 1 May) in which
ScAP disagrees with the proposal on the grounds that under con-
49
ditions obtaining in Japan, the reaction to the adoption of this
proposed course of action would result in a serious threat to the
security of the occupation forces.
The Department of the Army subscribes to the position taken
by SCAP, namely that the United States should make known to friendly
members of the Far Eastern Commission its decision firmly to adhere
to the position already taken of supporting SCAp in this matter.
In my opinion, the U.S. should endeavor to secure the support of
these governments to the withdrawal or tabling of the Australian
proposal in order to avoid use of the veto power. Quite likely,
CS/
the friendly FEC nations do not appreciate the importance of the
FILED
14:949
points raised by SCAP in his latest cable. However, if it is no
possible to obtain the withdrawal or tabling of this resolution,
A
the Department of the Army believes that the U.S. should not
hesitate to use the veto in this case.
Very sincerely yours,
foot lest
ROBERT R. WEST
Deputy to
Assistant Secretary of the Army

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.96)
MwiB
for clearnce.
Dear Mr. West:
Reference 1s made to your letter of May 11, 1949, in
which you state that the Department of the Army supports
the position taken by SCAP in his recent cable concerning
the rights of workers in Japanese Government enterprises.
The Department of State very muoh regrets that SCAP
has not found 1t possible to agree to a proposal which is
regarded as imposing no diffucult or immediate obligation
on him and yet wnich would serve to dispose a long-standing
controversy in the FEC and elsewhere. The Department will,
of courwe, endeavor to persuade other FEC countries to with-
draw their support from the Australian proposal. Steps in
this direction have already been taken.
But whether the U.S. Government succeeds in having the
Australian propossal withdrawn er whether it is obliged to
defeat the proposal by an embarrassing use of the veto, we
can e:pect the overall controverey on the National Public
feate
Service legislation to continue to t.. in the FEC. It is
therefore felt that this Government must devise ways and
meane for laying this matter to rest and I would welcome
any suggeetions you might care to make . how this Gould
best be accomplished.
Sincerely yours,

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.76)
NS.
46.
Sullivan mentines This matten 5
Mme revene dayp ajo a d I suggested
that e dhayt same such memo as
ti to you, E and A.s.
The protlem arove wien Killen, Chlp
i Scaps Laion vin, wnot to
te Ld To  gue
matrials u d Ti
th sfand tig a ly taler Dinision,
SEAP, oppring docetatigatin of
7
aminiaTe la
systens  .  a perenl
Letter to Sulln, STanchfild, Kille deuty impl
thai the decentnlisaim move wnbeing pushed
hy SCAPA T. Section.
The heps. of tate, has sent Killen
te mateiels deguests ad went ifomadly
on re cond thas it opposes the decntra lijatin
mores contemplated, Moeover Sullivan
wiste an air mail letter alonig the
Sane linis to Killen an Jan. 29.
(oven)

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.86)
Sullivar thuits thes thisn lommnieat
froar Labon and State wiel strengtthi
ScAp Laber Devisein's hand safficiently
to defeat th more tound decuitnaligatin.
Killen will wire ig they don'T. Meanerhile
ILH does not wish to tate this
matth up with Scap on the
Amj.
Before sendhing this on to CAD,
you may ture fore wish to
chem with Sulliran (t. e. 3152)
mg.
10

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.96)
MAY 231949
SECRET
Dear Mr. West:
Roference 1s made to your letter of May 11, 1949, in
which you state that the Department of the Army supports
the position taken by SCAP in his recent cable coneerning
the rights of workers in Japanese Government enterprises.
The Department of State regrets that SCAp has not
found it possible to agree to a proposal which is regarded
504/5-1149
as imposing no difficult or immediate obligation on him and
yet which would serve to dispose a long-standing controveray
in the FEC and elsewhere. The Department will, of course,
endeavor to persuade other FEC countries to w1 thdraw their
support from the Australian proposal. Steps in this diree-
tion have already been taken.
But whether the U.S. Covernment succeeds in having the
Australian proposal withdrawn or whether it is obliged to
defeat the proposal by an embarrassing use of the veto, w
can expect the overall controversy on the National Publie
Service legislation to continue to fester in the FEC. It
is therefore felt that this Government must devise ways and
means for laying this matter to rest and I would welcome any
suggestions you might care to make on how this could best be
accomplished.
Sincerely yours,
CS/A
GfH
W. Walton /Butterworth
Director Far Eastern Affairs
ar
SECRET FILE
894.50
Mr. Robert R. West,
Deputy to Assistant Secretary
of the Army.
tie  
210
F
MAY 23 1949
mg.
SECRET
FE:NA :MGreen: bk
5/20/49

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RESTRICTED
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: May 11, 1949
SUBJECT:
Possible Invitation to Japanese Unions to join
New non-Communist Labor International.
PARTIcIPANTS: Ur. Michael Ross, International Representative, CIO;
Ir. Philip B. Suilivan, ILS
COPIES TO:
ITP
FE
6.8
1-1683
like Ross called me this morning and stated
that Tewson of the British TuC had telephoned
James Carey, the Secretary-treasurer of the CIO,
in regard to plans for the organizational meeting of
the New Free Trade Unions International which will be
held in Geneva in thijunct on with the meeting of the
ILo. Tewson requested information regarding the
advisability of extending invitations to Japanese
and Korean trade unions. Specifically, Tewson asked
(1) are there any trade unions in those two countries
of such a nature that they should be invited, and
(2) if invited, would they be able to attend?
I told Ross that as far as Korea was concerned,
there was no organization of sufficient stature to
warrant an invitation. That, on the other hand, the
right-wing Japanese unions were not only worthy of
being invited but that such contacts as their repre-
sentatives would make at the meetings in question
would be extremely valuable for them in their present
conflict with the Communist-dominated left-wing groups
in Japan. I stated, however, that General MacArthur
had not permitted any Japanese trade unionists, of
either
RESTRICTED

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
-2-
oither the left or the right, up to the present at
least, to attend purely international trade union
meetings, though recently permission had been given
for tripartite delegations to attend ILo meetings.
I further stated it was my opinion that if an
invitation were sent to the trade unions in Japan to
attend the organizational meeting of the new non-
Communist international that official permisslon, in
all likelihood, would not be granted. Ross thereupon
inquired whether a Japanese worker would attend the
ILo meeting in Geneva and upon being informed that in
all probabilities one would be there, he stated that
they would make contacts with the workers' repre-
sentative at Geneva and that, "if necessary",
George Meany and Jim Carey would "kidnap" him for
informal attendance at some of the meetings for the
planning of the new international.
ITP:ILS:PBSullivan:apg
5/17/49
RESTRICTED

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
SECRET
OFFICE OF
TO
: ITP - Mr. Martin
INTERNATI TRADE POLLCY
D4TE: May 13, 1949
JUN 1 3 1949
FROM : IIS - Mr. Swayze
sujeCt: Labor Policy for Japan.
DED OF STATE
I. The report of Assistant Secretary of Labor
John W. Gibson (Attachment No. 1) following his trip to
Japan, copies of which have been officially transmitted
to both State and Army Departments as well as to General
LacArthur personally, stressos the importance of a sound
trade union movement to the achievement of the purposes of
our occupation of that country, and the need for adopt-
ing proper measures for retarding the threatening Com-
nmunist upsurge within the trade unions. His recommend-
ations come at a particularly significant time since a
series of recent developments renders a re-examination
and realignment of some aspects of our labor policy in
Japan essontial.
The more important of the measures recommended in
8
Mr. Gibson's report are:
(1) Limited revision of the National Public Service
4.50
Law in order to (a) restrict its coverage to bona fide
civil servants and (b) eliminate the penal provisions
for trade union activity;
(2) Limited revision of the general labor laws in
order to encourage democratic practices (such as
required use of secret ballots for election of
officers, annual elections, no officers on company
payrolls, etc.);
(3) Facilitating closer relations between U.S. and
Japanese labor leaders in order to give the latter
the benefit of U.S. labor's experience in developing
democratic unions and resisting minority control by
(a) sending "immediately" a committee of prominent
trade union leaders from the U.S. to Japan (as pro-
posed by Secretary Tobin) and (b) arranging for
Japanese unionists to come here for brief periods of
intensive study of U.S. unions.
(4) Provision for some flexibility in wage controls
under the Economic Stabilization Program where careful
study in given situations indicates serious hardships
or inequities exist.
II. (A) On
SECRET

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2-
II. (A). On April 28 a joint State-Labor-Army wire
(Attachment No. 2) was dispatched to SCAP requesting his
views concerning the giving of the telecommunications
workers, the largest block of non-civil servants whose
labor relations are controlled by the provisions of the
National Public Service Law, the benefits of the more
liberal labor provisions of the Public Corporations Labor
Relations Law. Under this latter law employees are per-
mitted to organize, bargain collectively, utilize existing
mediation and arbitration machinery, but not to strike.
The desirability, as a matter of principle, of granting
greater labor rights to all non-civil-service employees of
the Japanese Government than are given to the civil servants
under the National Public Service Law has been expressed
to SCAP by State and Labor on several previous occasions.
Mr. Gibson also discussed this matter with General
MacArthur, who asked for specific recommendations for re-
vision of the Law in question. Mr. Gibson's report, as
noted above, makes this specific recommendation.
SCAP's reply of May 1 (Attachment No. 3) rejected the
idea, giving as his main reasons (1) the importance of un-
intorrupted communication facilities to security in Japan
(which is not impressive since no strike rights were pro-
posed but merely those of collective bargaining and
arbitration), and (2) that he would have to impose such a
change by force on the Yoshida Government. (See Attach-
ment No. 4 for more detailed analysis of SCAP's message.)
(B) Several very recent decisions by SCaP have the
effect of preventing any satisfactory development of the
third : lir. Gibson's recommendationsas listed above,
namely the establishment of satisfactory contacts between
Japanese trade unions and the non-Communist labor organi-
zations of the United States and other countries. In
early April he wired his disapproval of the projected visit
of a U.S. trade union mission to Japan on the grounds that
if such permission wore granted similar requests from other
countries, including the Soviet Union, could not be denied.
In keeping with this same policy, permission was also denied
to requests to permit Japanese workers to attend a non-
Communist Asian labor conference in India, and to permit-
ting the Japanese workers' observer to the recent ILo meeting
in Pittsburgh to attend a meeting of the United Mine Workers
to which he was invited by John L. Lewis. On much the same
grounds, that granting permission to one organization would
necessitate
SECRET

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-3-
necessitate extending the same privilege to all other
requests of the same nature whatever their source, SCAP
on April 23 refused the request of the American Federation
of Labor to set up an office in Tokyo for purposes of
liaison with Japanese unions. It should be noted that the
offices set up by the AFL in Europe, including one in
Germany, have been extremely valuable adjuncts to U.S.
policy in Lurope, especially in combatting Communist efforts
among the trade unions there.
While it may be admitted that the giving of permission
for Japanese comunist labor leaders to go abroad is not
desirable per se, any more than is discriminating in such
matters in favor of one group of workers as compared to
another, nevertheless, the importance of broadening the
international contacts of non-conmunist Japanese labor
leaders is so great that neither of the two former alter-
natives appear sufficiently important to warrant blocking
the latter. Competent observers, without exception, report
that most intimate contacts exist between extreme leftist
Japanese labor leaders and members of the oversized Soviet
Hission in Tokyo. In view of this situation, any harm to
our interests that could come from allowing Japanese Com-
munists to go abroad to trade union meetings would fall
almost entirely into prestige and propaganda categories.
Hot letting then go has already furnished ample opportunity
for the latter of these, opportunity that has been well
utilized. Prestige and/or propaganda factors, however,
loom small when contrasted with the facts that on the staff
of the UsSR ission in Tokyo there are undoubtedly highly
trained snecialists in how minority groups operate to
capture and utilize for their purposes unions with pre-
dominately non-Communist membersships, while we do not have
a single U.S. trade unionist working with Japanese labor
today.
(c) From the foregoing, it is clear that no amount of
persuasion by the State and Labor Departments will succeed
in gaining SCaP acceptance of the very heart of the recom-
mendations proposed by r. Gibson. The recent negotiations
with Army on the telecommunications workers' case make it
likewise clear that Army will not support State on an issue
opposed by their Commander in the field.
III. It is my belief that steps looking toward the
achievement of the following ends should be undertaken at
once. They need to be undertaken because we are in danger
of
SECRET

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-4-
of losing to the USSR and the Japanese Communists the battle
for Japanese trade union support of our occupation goals.
If the trade unions go Communist, which they need not do
because only a very small percentage of the organized
workers of Japan are Communist today, the end of the
occupation will see one of two things, Japan falling into
the Soviet orbit, or a reactionary right-wing government
smashing the trade union movement completely in the course
of which it will of necessity move further and further to
the right towards another type of totalitarian dictatorship:
(a) Amendment of the National Public Service Law by
(i) limiting its applicability to those government
employees who may rightfully be classified as civil
servants or vhose activities relate directly to the
maintenance of public security; and (ii) removing
the penal provisions of the law as they apply to
labor activities of government employees that are
not criminal per se.
(b) Actively encouraging contacts between Japanese
and non-Communist labor organizations of the U.S.,
Europe and Asia. This would involve (i) encouraging
rather than barring visits of U.S. and other labor
leaders to Japan, and (ii) permitting Japanese union
officials to go abroad for conferences and contacts
with labor organizations in democratic countries.
(c) Strengthening the SCAP Headquarters staff of
labor specialists by (i) assigning to high responsi-
bility a labor adviser familiar with U.S. labor
practices and capable of giving practical advice to
Japanese labor leadership in the development of a
non-Communist labor movement, and (ii) appointing a
number of experienced labor relations men directly
to the Labor Relations Branch of the Labor Division;
(iii) appointment of a highly qualified cost of living
and wage analyst to that section of the Headquarters
staff responsible for advising on the economic
stabilization program.
In view of the known positions of Army and SCaP, these
steps, in all probability, will require direct high level
advice to General acarthur which necessitates aligning
the interested cabinet officers behind a unified U. S.
Government position. Our immediate course of action
would
SECRET

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-5-
would appear to be that of securing the support of
Mr. Thorp for the program outlined above with the view
of its being brought before the Under Secretary's Staff
Committee. In view of the similarity of this program
to lir. Gibson's proposals, we may count upon Lebor
Department support in such an undertaking.
Attachments:
(1) Mr. Gibson's report.
(2) Outgoing cable to General HacArthur regarding
proposed rights for government industrial workers;
(3) Reply from General HacArthur to (2) above.
(4) Analysis of (3) above.
cc: E - r. Dort
ITP:IIS:PBSullivan:apg
5/13/49
SECRET

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.92)
Delk
TANGARD FORM NO. 04
CONFIDENTIAL
Office Memorandum
SECRETARY
MR. RUSK
TO
: G - Mr. Rusk
21949
:DATE: 5/19/49
SUBJECT:
Australian resolution before FEC on Japanese Government
Qure14
workers' ri-hts
Last year, the Japanese Government under the direction
and guidance of 3CA nassei several laws specifying the labor
rights of Government workers. These laws ruled out strikes
by all Government workers ani limited the rights of mediation
and arbitration to certain Government enterprise workers.
Previously there ha been no limitations imnosed on the labor
rights of Government workers -- a situation which had been
ranidly leading to chaos.
Files
Central
DC/R
The Government workers' labor laws, incorporated in what
Document Must Be Returnea lo
is known as the National Public Service Legislation, have been
00
rounily attacked by the soviets and have been criticized by
other F C countries as going too far. hile the Department
has felt that the laws ure somewhat liscriminatory and has at-
temnted for six months now throuth an exchange of secret cables
with Sca? to have certain corrective veasures taken, the Depart-
ment has onoosed the assage of any FsC policy decision which
would reverse C.P on this highly ielicate issue, and bring
about a serious loss of his prestige in Japan.
Recently the Australian delegation submitted the follow-
ing resolution to the FeC:
949
"Bearin: in minl that it is a matter for the oc-
cunation authority in Japan to decide when strikes and
other work stonoages shoul? be prohibited as directly
nrejuiicing the objectives or needs of the occupation,
the Fuc lecides as a matter of oliey that the orovi-
sions of Fic Q45/5 (princinles for Jananese Prade
Unions) shonli be anpliel to vorkers in Jananese Gov-
ernment "nterprises."
3 of he 1l Fae countries actively support the resolution
and, unless ve are successful in having it withdrawn or tabled,
an early vote on it is exnected. hile the U.s. is strongly
onposel to this resolution, s . wmnld be olaced in achighly
enbarrassing ositien if it mare forcel to defeat the resolution
by the exercise of its veto power in the Fsc.
C
5
O
DC/R
tabling the Australian resolution. The attached memorandumGou-
An.:H2
6
15
2
2
CONFIDENTIAL
1T1
5
Cat.
FE:NA:MGreen: bk
wg. X 100189

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM
The controlling FEC directive on this question (FeC C45/5)
is a broad statement of rinciples for Japanese trade unions
which does not state to which specific grouns of workers it ap-
plies or does not apnly. hile virtually every country dis-
tinguishes between the ri hts of orkers in Government enter-
prise and in rivate enterorise, such istinctions are not made
in FEC Q45/5. The imnlementatirn of this broad statement of
pri ci les is left, of course, to the Suoreme Comnander in the
exercise of his executiv- authority.
In exercising this uuthority, 3CA? has, to the best of his
first-hanl knowledge of the situation in Janan and working in
collaboration with the Jupanese Governnent, drawn un a compre-
hensive series of laws in Which are specified the rights of
Government entecorise or hers. These laws bear the imprint of
long, comolicate egotiations between sCa? and the Japanese
Government as well as among Juvunese political grouos. The ef-
fect of the A stralian resolution, if adopted, would be to re-
quire a major revriting of the laws, which in turn would under-
tine the position of the present Government, unquestionably pro-
uce nolitical turnoil in Janan, ani have disastrous effects on
the stahilization program. This is the opinion of SCAP and of
leading U.S. officials. Ass't Secretary of Labor Gibson, who
has a long professional trade union backgroun!, recently made a
survey trip to Janan. He agrees that every effort sho ld be
made to withdraw or table the Australian oroposal.
The U.S. recognizes that other countries have different ways
of haniling this question, but n the basis of information avail-
able, no Fc country, by law or ractice, grants to its Govern-
ment enternrise workers the unrestrictei right to strike. The
Australian proposal would nermit unrestricted use of the strike
weanon by Government enternrise workers unless expressly forbid-
den by military fiat. This ouls imnose on the occunying author-
ity -- and on the .s: as orineinle occuoying power -- the direct
responsinility for the banning of each strine as it arose -- a
situation whieh the Soviets an Jananese C ommunists would ex-
ploit to our serious lisaivuntage.
Furt ermore, the nassage of the Australian resolution would
constitute a comolete renudiation of the princinles enunciated
by 3CA? in his onen letter of July 22, 1943 to Premier Ashida
(on the subject of Jananese Governnent vorkers' rights) and
"ould be in sunport of the nosition taken by the Japanese Comnun-
ist Party. The U.3. cannot agree to a policy decision which
would thus reverse SCaP and redound to Communist advantage. The
loss of restige which sCAP wouli suffer from such a situation
would seriously threaten the occunation.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2 -
Accordingly, if the Australian proposal were to be placed
before the Commission for a vote, the U.S. would be impelled to
vote against it. The question might therefore be asked of the
Australian Ambassador, what point there is in forcing the
Australian resolution to a vote when it is known that the U.S.
will veto it? The Australians will not achieve their objective.
The J.S. will be placed in a highly embarrassing position. No
one will benefit by such action excent the Soviets and the
Jananese Comnunists.
It would seen eminently oreferable that if changes are to
be made in the necessarily imnerfect national public service
legislation, they be based on direct, full discussions among
the interested lemocratic countries in consultation with SCAP.
For the reasons outlined above, remedial action through the FEC
on this particular problem wouli anpear to be most inadvisable.
The U.S. is confident that, working in this way, appropriate ad-
justnents can be ade in existing labor legislation without jar-
ring the delicate nolitical and economic situation now prevail-
ing in Janan.
CONrIUEN

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
TO
: G - Mr. Rusk
DATE: My 31, 1949
FROM : E - Mr. Thorp
suBject: Australian Resolution before FEC on Jananese Government
Workers! Rights
1. I agree with Mr. Eutterworth's recommendation
contained in his ay 19 memorandum to you that you should
call in the Australian Ambassador to discuss with him his
Resolution on Japanese labor which is now before the FEC.
The Australian Resolution is unwisely conceived and poorly
drafted and its passage would have, as stressed by Mr.
Butterworth, a number of undesirable results. I agree
with lir. Butterworth that we should oppose the Resolution
in its present form, even though it is supported by all
friendly denocratic member-countries of the FEC and con-
f
tains a principle which, if made known to the world at
large, would appear to be essentially reasonable. I agree
76
with r. Eutterworth that, in order to avoid the embarrass-
ment of being compelled to cast a unilateral United States
veto, we should attempt to persuade the Australians and
their supporters to withdraw this Resolution or, at least,
not to put it to a vote.
I have grave doubts, however, that the arguments
4/5
which it has been suggested that you use would, at this
time, persuade the australian Ambassador to bend to our
wishes.
9
The Ambassador kmows that elevon FEC countries
support his proposal. He cannot lightly disregard their
3
support. He and his supporters believe that some corrective
action - if not in the form of FEC action on the Australian
Resolution, then by other means - is necessary to prevent
weakening of the position of labor in the democratic
process in Japan. He knows that the United Kingdom, Canada,
New Zealand, with their long experience in democratic trade
unionism, share with Australia the fear that particular
aspects of SCaP's present labor policy, far from checking
Communist influence amongst Japanese labor may, in fact,
be producing the opposite effect. He may suspect that the
United States Government is similarly concerned over the
situation and objects only to the Australian method of
coping with it.
The Australian
SECRET

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
- 2 -
The Australian Ambassador will, in my opinion, agree
to letting his Resolution lapse only if he is provided
with definite assurances that the United States Government
intends, on its own part, to accomplish substantially the
same ends by different and better means.
2. While you may consider it worthwhile at this time
to call in the Australian ambassador and to present to him
the line of argument as developed in the FE memorandum,
ny own recommendation is that you defer your discussion
of the problem with him until you can state privately to
him and to other Comnonwealth supporters of his position
that the United States Government stands firmly upon the
following principle and intends to take whatever steps are
necessary for its effective implementation by SCAP in Japan:
"Full collective bargaining rights, including
the right of mediation and arbitration but not of
strike, should be extended to all non-executive
coiployees of covornment enterprises."
3. This commitment cannot be made lightly. SCAP has
notified us that he does not eccept the above principle
(although he has already applied it to a majority of
Sovernment enterprise workers). To change his present
position would require brincing to bear upon him the full
authority of the United States Government with the notice
that if he cannot accept guidance we mist resort to the
cenlorable alternative of issuing a formal directive. I
believe, however, that the facts of the situation within
Japan, the international implications of the problem, and
the bureaucratic record or its handling within the govern-
ment justify, in this instance, resort to Cabinet level or
hite House action, vithout which you would hardly bo in a
position to state to the nstrelian ambassador that the
United States Gove nment will, in fact, stand upon this
principle.
4. The situation in Japan is that Japanese labor is
becoming increasingly antagonistic to the role played by
American autherities in Tapan. Two developments which
have occurred durin the past six months have tended to
accentuate this antagonism. irst, Japanese labor has
interpreted SCaP's recent attitude towards labor rights
for government employees as foreshadowing a general re-
versal in the labor policy hitherto supported by the United
States. second, the implementation of the economic stabili-
zation pro ram, through its wage stabilization, employment
rationalization
S:CHET

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-3 -
rationalization and tax measures, has been interpreted
as imposing upon the working population the primary burden
of making the overall stabilization program effective.
Japanese Communist leadership is using these two develop-
ments to persuade Jananese lapor that the Arerican occu-
pation authorities have ceased to be interested in either
the welfare or the democratic political potential of
Ja anese working classes. Since wage stabilization and
associated labor control measures of some sort are
necessary short-term prerequisites for general stabili-
zation of apan's economy, the way in vhich the United
States can best refute Commminist propaganda is to reaffirm
olearly, and to the maximum extent possible enlarge the
incorporation of, sound principles of labor rights in
permanent vapanese legislation. Unless at least this much
is (one, anti-American sentiment in Japan's labor movement
is liely to increase ann to jeopardize the success of our
occupation proram as a whole.
5. The issue which we have discussed above has been
cons idered by the united States Government and SCAP in a
series of corunnications and conversations which began in
august l94e. During this period the State and Labor
Depertments, usually supported by the Army, have been in
consistent a reement over the principle involved, but,
at the same time, have respected Scap's viewpoint on the
question, particularly his interest in preserving the
authority and prestice or his headquarters in its dealings
with the Ja anese overnnent and the Japanese labor move-
mont. In consequence, in putting to him our views, we have
asked but not insisted tiat he take steps o correct a
sitmation vhich in our view contains unfortunate impli-
cations for the future of the occupation and seriously em-
barrasses our relations vith friendly FEC Governnents.
General  acarthur personally indicated to Assistant
Secretary Gibson an onen-minded and sympathetic attitude
tewards the ashin ton viewpoint. However, as is indi-
cated in his latest cormunication, sCaP has continued to
hold to his position or eiusing to take action for reasons
which, as  sets 'orth, are invalid and which, in my
considered jud ment, do not compare in importance to the
disadvantages resulting ron inaction on our part.
Attachments.
RSP
OuD:Nvburnett:mck
OFD
TP:ILS:PBSullivan:p
5/31/49
033.
SECHET

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
tion Assigned to
7
on Taken
PLAIN
A
Action: ITP
Info:
E
of Action
Control 689
FE
OLI
fiice Syb
Rec'd June 2, 1949
CIA
4:27 a.m.
OFD
DCR
PROM:
Tokyo
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
12043, June 2. (Army Message)
FOR CSCAD PASS TO DEPT OF STATE AND DEPT OF LABOR.
Chester W. Hepler, Chief, Labor Division, Economic
and Sclentific Section, on TDY from GH SCAP.
ETA
Washington 24 June 1949 via American A1rlines
894.504/6-249
flight 323 from mew York. ETD Washington 1 July
1949 via Northwest Airlines flight 309-801 to Tokyo.
Request agencies interested in problems relating to
Japanese laber movement be notified to provide oppor-
tunity for arranging conferences.
RB:ECW
1949 JUN 2
IT
ILS
INRORMATIO
PTP
P
rr,
3
:UH
x
15
C
JUN 151949
FILED
PLAIN
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.92)
AFULLY REFEBRED
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
MN 2 9 1949
6127149
PBTITIOM.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Jume 2, 1949
Te: Presidemt Truman, USA.
STATE
9 2M  4 15
30
EHRAOTMET
RECS 
he believe that your exoellenoy is fully cegmisams
D7
of the fact that we Japanese workers have played a big
rele as the contrul foroes for the reconstruction of
a peaceful Japan. However, the Japanese capitaliste and
government are usurping the fundamental rights granted
us by the Potsdam Proclumation. the l6-point prineiple
of the Far Eastern Conmission on Japanese labor movement.
and the Japanese Constitution by unjustifiably bringing
fascist-like interventions and supression to bear upen
labor movemont. These instanmes are too numerous to
ommerate here. The following is an instance of intervemtiom
of such nature.
184470
On May 31st, 1949, when the secomd regular
congress of our United Metal workers of Japan was held
the Kyobashi Publie Hall, Tokyo, one member of the
WAS
AUG4 1949
FILKD
S
-1-
oK

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.96)
Temkiji Poliee Statiem, Tekyo, foreed his way inte the
eongress hall, saying that he was aeting om request by
the CIc, and was present at the congress for many hours.
taking netes of the congress proceedings.
It gees without saying that we neither refuse nor
are we grudging, to have repreventatives of the General
Headquarters, ScAP, attend our congross to encourage our
gathering. However, the inspection of congress proseedings
as had been done in the days of the militarist regime,
sueh intervention with union movement as noting down the
cestests of the demooratic discussions at the congress,
and the demomstration of police authority and oppressiom
on the freedom of speech of us workers,--these are evidently
an insult to all the workers and cannot be passed unchallemged.
Here, we are led to wonx er if it is possible at
all that the HQ autherities entrust suoh a mtter as
above-mentioned te the Japanese police, and if sueh an .
action by the Japanese rolice is supported by the authority
of a directive of the Supreme Commander.
As is already stated above, there are ever
increasing instanses of intervention of Japanese police
with laber movement, and we fear that if this situatiom
- 2 -

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.92)
is allowed to continue, intervantion of the Japenese poliee.
abusing the nane of cIc and other agencies of the Oocupation
authorities, with Japanese labor movement, with the freedom
of speech and assembly will be  idespread and intensified
in future to the detriment of damc. tic lubor movement
in Japan, theroby encouruging the upsurge of fascist totali-
tariunizu.
ne desire in this comeetion that Your Excelleney
consider our cuse in the interest of  sound development
of Japanese labor movement.
jours obediently.
jiro .tde.
ted metal norker of Jupnn.
- 3 -

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.96)
RmpL
TANDARD FORM NO. 64
SECRET
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE: June 6, 1949
NA - Mr. Biehop
FROM
SUBJECT:
Australian Resolution before.nFEC on Rights of Employees
of Japanese Government Enterprises
1949
043
It seeme to me to be unwise to raise at the Cabinet
level the question of reversing a decision whioh General
MacArthur has taken largely on internal security grounde.
Therefore, I cannot support the first recommendation in
C0
the attaohed draft memorandum from you to Mr. Rusk.
6
94.504/6
I do not share the feeling that this problem "is
seriously embarrassing United States relations with
friendly FEC countries". To me that statement 1s a
great exaggeration. These FEC countries have not been
required to face up to the realities - military and
economic - of the situation in Asia. They approach
these problems with an academic detachment which has
1
9
characterized much of the basic post-war policies toward
649
Japan.
Similarly, I do not share the feeling that this
particular problem is "provoking antagonism to our
occupation program from the Japanese labor movement".
C
As Mr. Gibson has pointed out, the majority of leaders
in that movement are Communists or fellow travellers and
S
will oppose us no matter what they may find opportune to
1
CVI
use as a springboard. Our support of labor in Japan 1s a
matter of record for which we need not apologize exoept
E
perhaps to ourselves for occasional over-emphasis on
"rights" without explanation of accompanying "respons-
ibilities". Mr. MacDiarmid has reported that a few
"defeats" for labor in Japan would be a healthy develop-
ment for the labor movement itself.
In view of the importance of internal security in
Japan to our future policies and programs, I would
recommend that we follow the course suggested in your
earlier memorandum to Mr. Rusk -- that he call in the
Australian Ambassador and urge that the resolution be
withdrawn or tabled. I would also recommend that he or
you call in the other friendly FEC Ambassadors and discusa
89
the position of Japan in the economic, political and
military security of Asia, and urge them to give full
support to U.S. policies. If the Australian resolution
is brought to a vote, I would recommend that we veto it.
I doubt that any serious propaganda repercussions would
follow. Our record of support of the labor movement in
7
Japan is, after all, a etrong one.
NA:MWB1shop:clh
SECRET

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
G - Mr. Rusk
June 3, 1949
FE - Kr. Butterworth
Australian Resolutien before FEC on Rights of Emplexess
of Japanese Government Enterprises
Problem
To establish a United States course of aotiom with
respect to meeting the problem of the rights of labor in
Japanese Government enterprises whioh is proveking
antagonism to our occupation program from the Japanese
labor movement and is seriously embarrassing United 7
States relations with friendly FEC countries.
Recommendations
I am recommendang that the Acting Secretary take up
with Mr. Steelman in the hite House the possibility of
obtaining from Mr. Johnson, Secretary of National Defense,
and Vr. Tobin, Secretary of Labor, agreement to the
principle that SCAp should be required to take steps to
provide that all non-executive employees of government
enterprises in Japan be accorded full collective bargain-
ing rights, including the right of mediation and arbi-
tration, but not the right to strike.
I am recommonding, further, that, if you can agree
that these steps should be taken to obtain a high level
United States Government position upon this matter, you
suthorize appropriate representatives of the Department
to make informl approaches to the Commonwealth FEC
Delegations expressing the hope that they can await the
development of a United States position with respeot to
rights of Japanese workers in government enterprises before
putting the Australian Resolution (referred to helow) to
a vote in the I EC.
I recommend, finally, that, if you do not consider
this aspect of the Japanese labor problem to merit con-
sideration at the Cabinet level, you call in the Australian
Ambassador and attompt to persuade him of the desirability
of withdrawing or tabling the Australian Resolution.
Mr. Thorp concurs in these recommendations.
Discussion
SECRET

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRIE
- 2 -
L. Ay recomsendations are designed to cepe with twe
distimet, but intesrelated problems in she field ef ear
Japan poliey. Japanese laber and supperking liberal
elements are becoming inereasingly entageniesle te the role
played by Ameriean authorities In Japan. The FEC ceum-
tries, prompted by coneern ever Japanese laber develep-
ments and unhappy over a musber of resent peliey
positiens of the United States with respect to Japan.
have maneuvered ths United States inte a positien ef
isolation in the YEC, where we can oppose their wishes
only by casting a unilateral United States vete.
B. Last year as a resuls of serious abuses of pewer.
eapesially of the right to striks, on the part of eertaim
categeries of Japanese government employees, ScAr reeem-
mended and, under the direetion and guidanee of respensible
Occupatiom errieials, the Japanese Government passed
several laws restricting the rights of such empleyess.
The USSR and the Japanese Communists condemmed SCAp's
astien in tete. The restristive provisioms in shese laws
have been severely critieised as geing toe far by nearly
all FEC countries, as well as by organised United States
laber. The Department, on its part, has alse believed
that the legislation was defective In certain important
respeets and has attempted for nearly ten months te have
certain minor corrective measures taken. At the same
time, we have opposed passage of any FkC poliey decisien
which would publiely reverse SCaP on this highly delieate
Issue and bring about loss of his prestige in Japan.
3. The issue presents iteelf today in the form of
an Austrelian Hesolution before the FEC which provides
that:
"bearing in mind that it is a matter
for the occupation authority in Japen to
decide when strikes and other work step-
pages should be prohibited as directly
prejudicing the objectives or needs of
the cocupation, the PEC decides as a
matter of polioy that the provisions of
FEC O4s/s (Prinoiples for Japanese Trade
nions) should be applied to workers in
Japanese Government enterprises."
This
3 CRET

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
SEORET
- 3 -
This Resolution was passed at the May 31 meeting of
the FEC Steering Committee by a vote of six in faver
(Australia, U.K., Canada, New Zealand, India, and France)
to one opposed (Ú.S.), with four abstentiens (UssR, China,
Netherlands, and Philippines). It is now before the
Commission and will probably be voted upon within the
next few weeks end unless we act rapidly, we will, I believe,
again be alone in opposing it.
4. The United States is therefore confronted with
having to make an early choice between: (1) voting against
the Resolution, which in effect means use of the vete
(2) not voting against the Resolution which would permit
its adoption; (3) following the course of action contained
in the recommendations above.
5. Use of the unilateral veto has a number of serious
disadvantages. It utilises in the FEC a method of ob-
struetion of majority will the use of which by the Soviets
in the UN has been condemned by us and by other nations.
We must expeot that our action would be made known to
Japan and the rest of the world by press and radio, and
that we would be presented as having opposed alone the
rights of Japanese labor. Moreover, veto of this Reso-
lution would not finally settle this highly controversial
issue. We may shortly be faced with a new FEC resolution
calling for a position which accords with that which we
are now recommending, namely: that government enterprise
workers should have normal labor rights without the
right to strike. Sinoe this is a principle which we
ourselves support we would thus be placed in a far more
embarrassing predicament than we are in at present.
Finally, veto of the present Resolution would be another
of a series of recent United States actions on Japan that
have aroused resentment on the part of other friendly FEC
member countries. Avoidance of unilateral action on this
issue is thus highly desirable if at all possible.
6. On the other hand, I am convinced that the United
States Government should not, under any ciroumstanoes,
vote for the Australian Resolution. The controlling FEC
directive (FEC O45/5) to which this Resolution refers is
a broad statement of principles for Japanese trade unions
which does not state to which specifio groups of workers
it does or does not apply. SCap acted within his proper
administrative disoretion in ruling that all of its pro-
visions (inoluding the unrestricted right to strike)
should not necessarily apply to all types of government
employoes.
SECRET

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.95)
AECRT
● 4 -
empleyees. (Obviously, they should not all apply to
so on.) In the opinion af state, Laber and Army - while
Mr. Royall was Seeretary - SCaP was justified ln puling
way system and in the government menopolies should be
granted most normal labor rights but not the rigis so
strike. what these three Departments have opposed has
been SCap's refusal to oxtend these same rights to the
only remmining group of government enterprise workers,
namely the employees in the telecommunications serviees.
The arbitrariness of this disorimination has, probably
more than any other single factor, prompted among Fêc
countries distrust in SCAP's Lubor program, prevoked
antagonism against 3AP among the Japanese labor movemens,
and has led the State and Army Departments on several
cccasions to request SCAr to reconsider the stand he has
taken. SCAf's reasons or opposing our requests as well
as an YE momorandum analyzing  CAP's reasons are attmehed
at Tab A.
7. It may occur to you that the simplest couree of
action aimed at avoiding use of the unilateral veto is
the third of my recommendations, namely, salling in the
Australian Ambassador and attempting to persuade him of
the desirability of withirawing or tabling the Australian
hesolution. Several attompts have already been made by
officers of the Department to secure withdraal of the
Australian proposal, but all have been unsuccessful. The
Australian Ambassador imows that a majority of FEC coun-
tries support his proposal. Hs cannot lightly disregard
their support. He and his supporters believe that some
correotive action - if not in the form of FtC metion on
the Anstrelian tesolution, then by other means - is
necessary to prevent weakening of the position of laber
in the demooratio process in Japan. He kmows that the
nited Xingdom, Canada, Wew Zealand, with their long
experience in demooratio trade unionism, share with
Australia the fear that particular aspeets of S ap's
present labor polioy, far from cheeking Commmist in-
fluenee amongst Japanese labor mmy, in fact, be preducing
the opposite effect. Re may suspeet that the nited
States Government is similarly coneerned ever the situ-
ation and objeots only to the Australian method of
coping with it. The nited States Govermment has not
at any time stated its own view on the matter of substance
and in my opinion, the ustralian Aubassador will not
SLCRET

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.94)
ANCRT
- B -
agree to Zetsing his Rosolution lapse unless be la pre-
vided with defimite assuranses shat the Umited states
Gevernmens intends, on its osn part, to aceemplish sub-
stantially the same onds by different and bettar meams.
The Uaited States Government has, in feet, beam
genminely concerned over the laber situatiem in Japan.
Twe developments that have oseurred during the past six
months have tended to engender Japanese labor antagenism
to Ameriean authorities in Japan. First, Japanese laber
has interpreted SCar's recent attitude towards laber
rights of government employees as foreshadewing & general
reversal in the sympathetie and friondly attitude tewards
laber displayed by StaP during the initial period of the
occupation. Second, the implementation of the ssonomie
stabilisation program, through its wage stabilisation,
employment rationslization, and tax measures, has been
interpreted as imposing upon the working pepulatien the
primary burden for making the over-all stabilisatien
program effective. Japanese Commumist leaders, partieu-
larly those holding positions of responsibility in trade
unions, are using these two developments to persuade the
rank and file of the labor movement that Ameriean eeeu-
pation authorities havo ceased to be interested either
in the welfare or in the demooratic political potential
of the working classes. "ince wage stabilisation and
associated labor control measures of some sort are
necessary short-term prerequisites for general stabili-
sation of Japan's economy, the way in whioh the United
States can best refute Comminist propaganda is to re-
affirm clearly, and to the meximum extent possible en-
large the incorporation of, sound prineiples of labor
rights in permanent Japanese logislation. Centimuation
of the present situation will contribute to the strengthen-
ing of Comminist influence within the trade union movoment.
8. The isaue which I have outlined above has been
considered within the united States wovernment and between
it and S AP in a series of conversations and communications
which began in August l948. Assistant Seeretary of Labor
üibscn roported to us in mroh that General Kaaarthur
personally, upon being informed of some of the practicmble
measures which could be taken to deal with the labor
situation in Japan, gave evidenee of an open-minded and
sympathetie ettitude towards the Washington viowpoint.
pon one principle  tate, Laber, and usually Army have,
ovOr
CCRET

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
namely: that all non-executive empleyees of governmes
enterprises in Japan should be escorded full eellestive
bargaiming rights, including the right of mediatiem and
arbitration but not the right to strike. Except for his
disorimination against the some 150,000 telecommumicstioms
workers, ScAP, too, could be said to have supperted this
prinoiple. In our most recent communication te Scar en
this subjeet we told him that if the United States Goverm-
ment were in a position privately to asaure the Australians
and certain other of the FEC countries that the United
States and SCAP supported this prinoiple and that full
effect will be given to it by SCAP as soon as praetieable
this long and unhappy controversy could almost certainly be
laid at rest. Our proposal was designed to spare SCAP
embarrassment. It did not require that SCAp take any
immediate or difficult action. The refusal of the SCAP
Headquarters, which has been now supported by the Army
Department, leads me to the conclusion that our objeotives
can be achieved only if there can be established a high
level United States Government position on the matter which
is brought fully to bear upon SCAP with the notiee that if
he oan not accept that authority for his guidance the
United States Government may soon be placed in the de-
plorable position where it could not afford to oppose
issuing a directive along the lines of the principles
stated above. It is upon this conclusion that my first
recommendation is based.
9. My second recommendation, namely: that repre-
sentatives of the Department indioate to Commonwealth FEC
Delegations, for the first time, that the United States
Government has under consideration a compromise proposal
of its own to disouss with them, oither within or outside
of the FEC as seems at the time most appropriate, would.
I believe, effectively delay putting the Australian Reso-
lution to a vote in the FEC for several weeks.
10. As noted in Paragraph 7 above, I believe that
you should consider aoting upon my third recommendation
only if, in the light of the considerations I have already
reviewed, you do not regard this issue to merit Cabinet
level attention. In that event I believe that you should
call in the Australian Ambassador, inform him that we
intend to veto his Resolution if it is brought to a vote
in the Commission, and attempt to persuade him to with-
draw or table his Resolution by use of the arguments
sot
SECRET

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.95)
-7-
set ferth in Tab B. These argurents have not befese
been marshalled so comprehensively.
FE:NA:MGreen
OFD:RWBarnett
ITP:ILS:PBSullivan:apg
6/3/49
NA
ITP
OFD
E
SECRET

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITED STATES OF AMERIGA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, June 11, 1949.
o. 374
UNCLASS IFIED
REC'D
JUN 21
OFFICE OF
Subject: Japanes Supreme Court Labor DedaydtoNAL Tt POLICy
ACTION
ITP
JON49
IMFO
FR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DCR
The Honorable
FE
The Secretary of State,
OLI
Washington.
L
EUR/X
894.504/6-11
Sir:
LABOR
NLRB
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch no. 193
of March 31, 1949, regarding the status of the Supreme Court of
Japan and to submit a summary of the first important decision by
the Court on a labor issue. In connection with this case there
11
are enclosed in translation a copy of an excerpt from the decision
of the Hiroshima Higher Court summarizing the facts of the case,
C
2/
a summary of the points made by the defendant-appellant on appeal
3/
to the Supreme Court of Japan, and a copy of the decision of the
4/
Supreme Court. A mimeographed copy of the Supreme Court's decision
in Japanese is also enclosed.
The facts of the case are briefly these: the miners union of
the Ohama Mining Company, Ltd., at Onoda, Yamaguchi Prefecture, pre-
sented a demand to the president of the company. Goroku SHIGEMORI,
for higher wages. This demand was refused and after preliminary
declarations in accordance with Japanese law the union began a
strike on September 10, 1947. The office employees union of the
company was split, the majority supporting the president of the
company and fourteen members supporting the miners union. After
negotiation the strike ended and the workers resumed work on Octo-
ber 5, 1947. On October 26, 1947, Shigemori suspended 78 members
of the union and on November 5, 1947, discharged 76 of them; the
two others and the fourteen members of the office employees union
were suspended.
The discharged union members caused a criminal action to be
brought against Shigemori on the ground that his actions were in
violation of Japanese labor laws providing that an employer must
not inflict injurious treatment upon or discharge laborers for en-
gaging in a work dispute or for making statements while engaged in
a dispute. Shigemori was found guilty by the Yamaguchi District
Court and fined 500 yen. Upon appeal the Hiroshima Higher Court
upheld the verdict and altered the sentence to two months imprison-
ment with sentence suspended for three years. Shigemori sppealed
to the Supreme Court.
The principaly
CC
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's despatch no. 374,
June 11, 1949.
-2-
The principal contentions of Shigemori were that the dispute
had previously been settled and that his actions in discharging 76
employees resulted from their "sabotage" (by which is apparently
meant their slow-down tactics after the dispute ended): that Shigemori
in suspending the fourteen office employees union members was justi-
fied since the contract with the office employees union called for a
closed shop and since the other members of this union had requested
the discharge of these workers; that the chief purpose of the dispute
was the erpulsion of President Shigemori from his position and was
not a legitimate labor union purpose; that suspension of the 76 em-
ployees did not constitute injurious treatment since the workers re-
ceived basic salaries while they were suspended; and that the original
decision of the Yamaguchi District Court made no finding that the dis-
charged amployees were responsible for sabotage and consequent damage
of the company's financial prospects.
On April 23, 1949, the Supreme Court dismissed Shigemori's appeal.
The Court's principal holdings are as follows: (1) the injurious
treatment of the workers by the employer was part of a causal chain
originating with the lawful dispute undertaken by the workers and was
not inflicted solely as a result of the alleged "illegal sabotage" of
the workers; (2) although a closed shop agreement existed between the
employer and the office employees union, it can not be readily assumed
that discharge of members of this union whose expulsion was desired by
other members of the union does not violate labor law provisions re-
quiring that an employer not inflict injurious treatment on workers
as a result of a labor dispute; (3) it can not be corluded that, where
a union asks for the dismissal of the chief of a mining office, the
purpose of a dispute involving that individual is not a legal one de-
signed to improve union conditions: (4) "injurious treatment" means
not only discriminatory treatment economically but also discriminatory
spiritual treatment such as suspension from work even with pay. The
Supreme Court upheld the decision of the lower court that the actions
of the employer brought pressure to bear on union members, and at
tempted to weeken and destroy the unity of the unions. The Court
made no specific finding that the union members had been guilty of
Babotage.
Although the sentence imposed on Shigemori was nominal. it is
considered that the Supreme Court has established an important prece-
dent in defining the right of an employer to discharge employees en-
gaged in a dispute and in actively opposing the management of the em-
ployer. The decision appears to be a liberal one, but it remains for
subsequent interpretations and later issues to determine the extent
of its application.
Respectfully yours,
Cloyce K。 Hus ton
Charge d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosures:
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's despatch no. 374,
Jume 11, 1949.
at
Enclosures:
1. Excerpt from Decision of
the Hiroshima Higher Court
re Gorokn SHIGEMORI.
2. Summary of points made by the
the defendant-appellant on
appeal to the Suprene Court
of Japan.
3. Copy of Decision of Supreme
Court.
Mimeographed copy of Supreme
Court's decision in Japaness.
363/560
RBFinn&gnd
Parchment Mat to the Department.
RRM
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.98)
nclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 374
dated June 11, 1949, from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Japanese Supreme
UNCLASSIFIED
Court Labor Decision".
(FULL TRANSLATION)
EXCERPT FROM DECISION OF THE HIROSHIMA HIGHER COURT
DECISION
Name:
Goroku SHIGMORI.
President, Ohama Tanko Kabushiki Kai sha
(Ohama Coal Mining Co., Ltd.), and
concurrently chief of Ohama Mining
Office.
Address:
1020 Onoda, Onoda Shi.
Ages
42 years.
FACTS OF CRIHE (From decision of the Hiroshima Higher Court
dated May 21, 1948)
The accused is the chief of the Ohama Mining Office of the Ohama
Mining Co., Ltd., located at 1,O20 Onoda, Onoda. At this Mining Of-
fice there is a miners' labor union entitled "KOIN RODO KUMIAI" with
approximately 950 members and an office workers' union known as
"SHOKUIN RODO KUMIAI" consisting of eighty-odd office employees.
On August 20, 1947, there was a management conference, at which
the Miners Union submitted economic demands such as increased wages
under a sliding acale, etc. During the conference the accused re-
fused the demanded increase of wages under the sliding scale. His
speech and conduct subsequent to this refusal led to disputes, as a
result of which the accused declared the conference closed. There-
fore, ASAE Minsha, chairman, and all othor members of the Miners
Union passed a resolution on the following day, August 21, that the
accused, being undemocratic and despotic, should be expelled from
the Mining Office. The Miners Union handed this resolution to the
acoused on August 29, and entered upon a Labor dispute. On Septem-
ber 10, 1947, all of the Miners Union members started a general
trike.
On the other hand the Office Imployees Union was split into
two rival factions. The majority of the members supported the
acoused, but SAto Itsuhiko and 13 other members of the Union sup-
ported the Miners Union, and handing to the accused a request for
his resignation participated in the general strike. Thus the dis-
pute was increased. However, as a result of negotiations from
September 26 to 30 in Tokyo, where the head office of the company
is located, a general agreement was arrived at, whereby it was
agreed that economic demands such as an increase of wages under
a sliding scale and other details should be discussed and agreed
upon at the mine. The Miners Union, thereupon, withdrew the demand
for expulsion of the acoused, and discontinued the strike and re-
sumed work on October 5 of the same year.
However,
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure.No. 1,
Tokyo's Despatch No. 374,
June 11, 1949.
-2
However, the accused in the period between October 12 and 24
of the same year called to account some of the workers responsible.
for the strike and sabotage /Translator's note - taieye, generalle
translated as "sabotage" but also meaning "slow down"/ on the ground
of lowering of efficiency, endangering management order, and damage
of production. From his desire to bring a pressure to bear upon the
Union, to destroy unity of the Union, and to weaken it, the accused
on October 25 at the above Mining Office ordered suspension of work
and domiciliary confinement of chairman ASAE Minsha and 77 members
of the Union on the ground of responsibility for the sabotage. Not
only these members but also other members who were in the leading posi-
tions of the Unions and who were more. enthusiastic in the strike, were
given similar disciplinary treatment. He thus caused a decrease in
wages to the disadvantage of the miners.
On November 5, 1947, at the Mining Office the accused on the same
grounds as stated above discharged Asae Minsha and 75 members (except-
ing two of those who were ordered suspended).
On October 25, 1947, at the Kining Office the accused called to
account Sato Itsuhiko and 13 members of the Office Employees Union
for participation in the dispute in cooperation with the Miners Union
members, and ordered suspension of their work and domiciliary confine
ment until further notice. He thus caused a decrease in allowances to
the disadvantage of the employees.
The action of the accused in ordering suspension of work of the
said Miners Union members and office employees is considered to be
continued criminal intent.
UNCLASS IFIED

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 374
dated June 1l, 1949, from the. United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Japanese Supreme
UNCLASSIFIED
Court Labor Decision".
SUMMARY OF APPEAL BY ATTORNEYS KEUKE NobuO and
HIROSAWA Michihiko in behalf of Goroku SHIGEMORI.
1. First Point
The acoused admitted the fact that he ordered suspension of work
of the said union members and that he discharged them. However, the
accused denies that he resorted to the above action with such inten-
tion as is insisted in the indictment. The reason that the accused
was compelled to take such actions was that, in spite of the fact
that the dispute started was amica bly compromised and settled between
the company and the union, some of the union members committed sabotage
in an organised and colle ctive manner without any justifiable reasons.
The situation where factory discipline was considerably destroyed hav-
ing continued long, the company was unable to overlook this situation.
The company first ordered suspension of work of leaders considered to
be responsible for the sabotage and others who instigated it, 78 per-
sons in all, for the purpose of demanding their reflection. Subse-
quently he discharged 76 workmen of the above 78 persons. It is evi-
dent, therefore, from the statements of the accused at the first trial
and at the criginal trial found in the records of this case that he
contended that his action was not illegal in the least.
It is beyond doubt from interpretation that the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Article 1l of the Labor Union Law or of Article 40 of
the Labor Relations Adjustment Law forbid dismissal or other dis-
advantageous treatment exclusively for the reasons prescribed there-
in, and that such provisions do not prohibit dismissal or other dis-
advantageous treatment in cases where the employers find justifiable
grounds for such an action. Accordingly, if the original decision
recognizes that the whole of those punished and discharged in this
case were responsible for the illegal sabotage, then the action of
the accused in blaming them for the illegal sabotage and in punish-
ing them by the suspension of work and discharge is legally justifiable.
Therefore, even if, for instance, the accused can be surmised to have
had the potential intent as is recognized by the original decision, to
search such a potential intent and forcibly render the accused's action
as in violation of the above described provisions of the laws must be
said to be an improper recognition in departure from the spirit of the
provisions of the laws. In short, in spite of the fact that the orig-
inal decision recognizes that some of the union members illegally sabo-
taged without reasons after the sattlement of the dispute and that the
extent of the sabotage was such that the management discipline of the
company's enterprise was destroyed and that the enterprise was in dan-
ger of eventual ruin. the original decision concluded that the accused
was guilty and used such ambiguous expression as "the said suspension
of work and diemissal of workers must be said as a whole to be illegal".
The original decision, in passing the conclusion, failed to give any
definite judgment as to whether or net each of the union members sue-
pended frem werk and discharged was respensible for the sabetage. The
original decision has thus either misinterpreted laws and made impreper
recegnition of facts er illegally lacked exhaustive investigatiens and
completeness of reasens. It is believed, therefore, that the original
decision must be repealed.
2. Second Point:
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2,
Tokyo's Despatch No. 374,
June 11, 1949.
-2-
2. Second Point:
The original trial should have first of all investigated as to
whether or not the so-called leaders of the Union had to be held
responsible for the illegal sabotage alleged by the company. Is it
has been determined that these persons included some who should be
held responsible for the sabotage, the accused should not be pre-
sumed to have had the intent to inflict illegal treatment. Iven
though the persons discharged included a large mumber of the leaders,
if all of the leaders had to assume responsibility for the sabotage,
it is a matter of course that they should be discharged as responsible
for the sabotage. Therefore, the conclusion that, merely for reasons
of the large number, the discharge contemplated other purposes--re-
sponsibility for the dispute, supression of the union, destruction
of the unity of the union, and weakening thereof--is a gap in reason-
ing, and cannot be said to be proper in the least. A discharge at
one time of a large mumber of leaders may destroy the unity of a
union and weaken it. However, this is a result, not a purpose. The
original decision has somewhat misunderstood the real intention of
the accused. The accused could, if he so desired, from the beginning
discharge the employees. For purpose of care and prudence in handling
the case, however, the accused first ordered suspension of work followed
by the discharge. It is not that the accused discharged them because
they admitted responsibility for the sabotage. It can be recognized
from reports of officers and men in charge that those discharged were
responsible for the sabotage. The accused considered it appropriate,
however, to give an opportunity for explanation for purpose of cir-
cumspection in handling the case, and at first ordered the suspension
of work. The accused expected the employees to make reflection and
submit an explanation. But in the absence of any attitude on the part
of the employees to make reflection, the accused announced the dis-
charge ten days after the order of the suspension of work.
The original decision is illegal in inconsistency of reasons
in concluding, on the basis of such dogma or surmise, that the pri-
marily lawful and proper suspension of work and discharge "are il-
legal as a whole". In this respect too the original decision is
believed to be deserving a repeal.
3. Third Point8
The original decision concludes as Fact No. 2 that "the accused
on October 25, 1947, at the said Mining Office called to account
office employees Sato Istuhiko and 13 others for participation in
the dispute in cooperation with the members of the Miners' Union,
ordered domiciliary confirement until further notice and suspension
of work, thereby caused a decrease in allowances, and thus imposed
injurious treatment". The order given to the employees to wait further
order at their homes in order to arrive at an amicable settlement of
the situation cannct be in violation of the provisions of the law. The
original decision has not given any judgment concerning this clear fact
insisted upon by the accused. In short the original decision is be-
lieved to be illegal in that it omitted a judgment concerning important
facts.
The original
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2.
Tokyo's Despatch No. 374,
June 11, 1949.
- 3 -
The original decision, as a result of overlooking the fact that
the said 14 persons are members of the Office Employees Labor Union,
has erred in the application of law and is therefore illegal. In
this point too the original decision is believed to be deserving a
repeal.
4. Fourth Point:
In its explanation of evidences and reasons the original decision
states as follows:
"In considering the circumstances of the dispute recognized
above, the said dispute involved economic demand from the begin-
ning to the end, and expulsion of the accused wes not its chief
aim. Accordingly, the said dispute has not deviated from the
regular scope of a labor union movement or a labor movement."
This statement of the original decision has either completely
ignored the evidences or has wilfully twisted the purport of the
evidences. Therefore, such recognition is illegal. According to the
evidence. what the Miners Union demanded of the company was from the
beginning to end the expulsion from office and elimination of the ac-
cused who was the chief of the Mining Office on the ground that the
accused was undemocratic and despotic.
The criginal decision states that the said dispute has not deviated
from the regular scope of the labor union movement or labor movement.
and treats this fact as a basic material for recognition of facts de-
scribed in the foregoing Second Point. Therefore, the original decision
in short has made a grave misunderstanding of facts concerning items
affecting the result of the decision. In this respect also the original
decison is believed to be deserving a repeal.
5. Fifth_Point
Article 40 of the Labor Relations Adjustment Law provides:
"In case an employer adjusts a labor dispute under this law,
he must not discharge the laborers involved or accord them in-
jurious treatment on the ground of such laborers' utterances or
dispute; provided, however, that a case where labor committee's
consent is obtained is excepted."
Thus the so-called illegal treatment on the ground of laborers'
dispute is forbidden. "Injurious treatment" is interpreted to mean
treatment reducing wages of involved laborers and otherwise lower-
ing economic advantages and labor conditions. However, this is in
short a judgment of value. Injurious treatment means only cases where
a difference between economic profits thus far acquired and damages
suffered from the treatment involved is, from ordinary social concept.
such as may be properly interpreted a disadvantage to the person or
persons involved. Therefore, a perfunctory interpretation that any
reduction of profits even to a very slight extent falls under the *in-
jurious treatment" prescribed in the Labor Relations Adjustment Law
is a misunderstanding of the spirit of the law.
The original
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2,
Tokyo's Despatch No. 374,
June 11, 1949.
The original decision states that the accused reduced the wages
of the Miners' Union membera by suspending the work of Asai Minsha
and other 77 members of the said Miners' Union, and that he thus in-
flicted injurious treatment. On the basis of such ambiguous facts
it is impossible to conclude whether the accused's treatment falls
under the "injurious treetment" mentioned in the Labor Relations Ad-
justment Law. Therefore, the original trial is improper in lacking
exhaustive investigations. If the original trial had interpreted
that any extremely small decrease in wages or allowances comes under
the "injurious treatment" prescribed in the Labor Relations Adjust
ment Law. this is a completo disinterpretation of the law. In this
respect the original decision is believed to be illegal and deserving
a repeal.
6. Sixth Point:
The original decision recognizes that the sabotage by the Miners'
Union members in this case was so strong as "to have lowered the effi-
ciency of work, destroyed management order, and endangered eventual
destruction of the enterprise". This mbotage was not merely a sabo-
tage of an individual member of the Union, but wes an organised and
collective one contering around miners and diggers. Seeing that the
sabotage seemed to continue indefinitely the company demanded chair-
man Asae and a few other leaders of the Union to discontinue the
illegal sabotage immediately. However, the chairman and other leaders
of the Union replied that the union had not ordered the sabotage. The
union thus ignored the company's demand, and showed an attitude that
they tacitly approved the sabotage.
It was intolerable for the company to overlook indefinitely such
sabotage, improper and without any reasons. The financial conditions
of the company at that time showed considerable losses on account of
the strike of the miners for a long time. and further losses from the
sabotage made it difficult for the company to continue bus iness. At
tha time the company barely maintained its finance by the aid of the
"defieit" financial accommodations, and further losses were liable to
render the maintenance and continuation of the enterprise difficult.
The company's management (Managing Director TAkAHASHI and Assistant
Chief KunIna), which was patient in dealing with the Union at the spot.
had to finally make up its mind to take a drastic action to have the
sabotage discontinued. The accused left the Mining Office on October
8 for Oeaka and Tokyo to seek financial accommodations, and was not
at all aware of the sabotage started from October 12. He received a
detailed report on the sabotage from Chief Secretary NAGAI Kosaku of
the Office Employees Labor Union who met him in the trip. Greatly
surprised the accused returned to the mine in a great hurry on Octo-
ber 23. Upon his return he immediately called a conference of the
company's erecutives including Managing Director Takahashi, Assistant
Chier Kunida. Chief of Labor Section HAITANI. etc. He also received
reports from officers in charge at the mine. Considering the situa-
tion precarious permitting no delay in action he, on October 25.
ordered suspension of work of 78 persons for responsibility for the
sabotage. On November 5 he discharged 76 persons out of the 78
persons. As a result of this drastic action the sabotage immediately
came to an
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2.
Tokyo's Despatch No. 374,
June 11, 1949.
- 5 -
came to an end. Thereafter, order was restored throughout the
mine, and efficiency of work has since been very satisfactorily
increasing.
The above circumstances have been made clear in the records of
this case. The action in suspending work and discharging employees
was taken as emergency and inevitable measures to save the company's
enterprise from the miners' sabotage, and is not illegal in the
least.
The accused had no other purpose than to have the sabotage dis-
continued. If he, as alleged by the original decision, suppressed
the union and discharged even innocent miners on the pretext of re-
sponsibility for the sabotage with the intent of destroying unity of
and weakening the unicn, then over 900 miners other than those dis-
charged could not have returned to work peacefully without any commo-
tion.
However, the original decision, without giving a definite judg-
ment as to whether or not those discharged were actually responsible
for the sabotage, concluded under a mere surmise that the accused had
the intent to suppress the union, basing such conclusion on the fact
that those discharged included a large number of the union leaders.
etc. That such a conclusion is improper has been already described.
The criginal decision fatls to grasp such clear reason, and had
rendered the conclusion described in the foregoing in such a tone and
ambiguous manner that the union leaderst responsibility for the sabo-
tage was not recognized. The original decision has either misinter-
preted the law or laws. or is illegal in that investigations were in-
complete and that there are omissions in the judgment. For these
reasons the original decision is believed to be deserving a repeal.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclomre No. 3 to Despatch No. 374
dated June 11, 1949, from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Japanese Supreme
UNCLASSIFIED
Court Labor Decision".
(FULL TRANSLATION)
No. "Re" 706, 1948.
DECISION OF SUPRELE COURT
Name of the Accused: Gorcku SHIGEMORI,
President, Ohama Coal Mining Co., Ltd..
and concurrently chief of Ohama Mining
Office.
The accused has appealed to this Supreme Court the decison of
the Hiroshima Higher Cour: delivered on May 21, 1948, concerning
the case of vicletions by the accused of the Labor Union Law and
Labor Relations Adjustment Law. This Supreme Court has reached the
following decision
This appeal is hereby diemissed.
REASONS
1. Fat pe ef ts appeal
Acceraing to what io inticated  Fact No. I in the original
decision, it ls (lser thet the decision decided that the accused
committeß such ecta as (1) srder of suapenmion frcm work of Chair-
man ASaE Maneha s  persons. and (2) discharge of the said ASAE
and Te persons. with ths tatenticn or destreying the unity of the
uniens and weakenivg them by calline them all to account for the
Leter dispus aad by br ngins pressure to bear upon the Miners Labor
Union As s indicated is the dscision some of the union members re-
sorted to sabetaer after the dispute was over. Therefore, the deci-
sicn meraiy statea tba: the acces? iralicted this injurious treat
ment with the antenxien of calling tc acoount such members ar re
sorted to the satstage It is, the efore, evident from the decision
that of those wht were in pur ioue y/Trenslator's note- furleki is
translated as "inju sus"/ treated there were none, as is argued,
who were cailei to ar cont for tllegal sabotage alone.
As in ndicated in the lecixion. where the employer called
labcrers to account for iabar dispute, brought pressure to bear upon
the laber union members, and injuriously treeted laborere with the
intention cf dsstroying and weakening the unity of the unione, the
case ie different from one where the emplcyer inflicted injurious
trestment fur responsibil:ty for illcgal sabatage alone, even though
the employer had the intention oi alss calling to account illegal
sabotage. Since it is crident that there exists therelation of cause
and effect between on the one han! the fact that the laborers are mem-
bere of a labor unlon, that the laborere committed lawful acts as mem-
bers of a laber union, and that laberers resorted to dispute, and on
the other hand the injurious treatment against the laborers, the em-
ployer's injurious treatment against the laborers is considered to
be in violation of the provisions of Article ll of the Labor Union
Law or
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3,
Tokyo's Despatch No. 374,
June 11, 1949.
-2-
Law or Article 40 of the Lebor Relations Adjustment Law. Therefore.
the origimal decision that the accused violated each of the above
provisions has not in the least misinterpreted the law and is not
illegal. Also in the original decision there is no such illegality
as is pointed out in the attorney's arguments es to insufficient
reasons or imcompleteness of examinations.
2. Second point of the appeal.
The criminal acts recognized by the original decision are fully
substantiated by evidence shown in the original decision. There are
found no points of illegality. as are alleged, such as recognition
of facts without evidence or violation of law concerning procurement
of evidence. The attorneys' arguments insist in detail that the in-
jurious treatment of the Labor Union members by the accused had the
purpose of punishing only the illegal sabotage of the union members
as is stated in the original decision. However, the original deci-
sion, as explained in the first point, dces not deny that the accused
had the intention of blaming some of the union members for illegal
sabotage. The original decision recognizes that the injurious treat
ment of the union members not only punished this illegal sabotage
but also intended to call them to account for the dispute. The orig-
inal decision recognized that for other members of the Union reaponsi-
bility for dispute was molely meant. Therefore. the attorneys' argu-
ments merely stress facts not found in the original trial. In short
the arguments insist on erroneous finding of facts in the original
trial. and therefore the arguments do not constitute lawful reasons
for appeal.
3. Third point of the appeal.
There was concluded a labor contract in November 1946 between
the Ohama Coal Mining Company's Mining Office and the Ohama Coal
Mine Employees Labcr Union organized by office employees of the said
Mining Office, according to the evidence. It is also found from the
evidence that the contract provided for the so-celled closed shop
system, that SATo Iteuriko and 13 other of the employees union were
expelled from the unior twice in about the latter part of September
1947 and about the first part in October of that year, and that the
union demanded the compary to discharge those who had been expelled.
As is pointed out in the attorneys' arguments, in cases where
a closed shep system is provided for in a labor contract concluded
between an employer and a labor union and the union has expelled a
member therefrom, it is true that the employer in the abeence of
special circumstances is obligated to discharge the expelled member.
However, even in a case where a closed shop system is provided for.
a discharge of an expelled member by the employer or any other in-
jurious treatment cannot readily be assumed not to violate the pro-
visions of Article 40 of the Labor Relations Adjustment Law. Even
in such a case a thorough investigation should be made of the fol-
lowing: the contents of the agreement concerning the closed shop
eystam, the relatione between the labor union and the employer.
the reasons for exclusion of the union members, whether or not the
exclusion was made voluntarily by the union, and the intention of
the employer who imposed injurious treatment. It should be decided
whether or not
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3.
Tokyo's Despatch No. 374,
June 11, 1949.
-3-
whether or not the injurious treatment is in violation of the pro-
visions of Article 40 of the law on the basis of whether or not the
treatment illegally interferes with the right of dispute of the
laborers.
The fact that the original decision failed to explain the various
circumstances above described, and immediately decided that the in-
jurious treatment in this case is in violation of the Labor Relations
Adjustment Law raises criticism that the decision did not contain an
exhaustive explanation. According to the records of the case, however,
it can be surmised and concluded that the original trial made thorough
study and investigation of the above described circumstances. The orig-
inal decision has expecielly concluded, on the basis of depositions of
witnes SATo Itsuhiko, that the expulsion of the said individual and
13 other persons by the Office Employees Labor Union had not been made
voluntarily by the said union. It may be surmised and recognized that
the original decision has eventually come to the conclusion that, re-
gardless of the circumstances such as the closed shop system and the
expulsion, the injurious treatment in this case is in violation of the
provisions of the law. The foregoing point concerning the closed shop
Bystem does not come under the provisicne "Reasons preventing constitu-
tion of a crime from the legai etandpoint" stipuleted in paragraph 2 of
Article 360. old Code of Criminal Procedures. Therefore. the onginal
decision, althcugh laciing a specific mention of conclusions, cannot
be necessarily concluded to be illegal as alleged.
4. Fourth point of the apneal.
Even when in the labor dispute demand was made for expulsion of
the chief of the Chama Mining Office of the Ohama Coal Mining Company.
Limited. it can not be concluded that this was the direct and exclusive
purpose but rather that such an act. as a necessary means to obtain
maintenance and improvement of laber conditions. does not necessarily
depart from the lawful extent of labor union activities.
The original decislon concluded that in this dispute the union
members ineisted from the beginning to the end on economie demands
such as increased wages under a sliding scale, and had not as its
chief aim the expulsion of the accused, chief of the Mining Office.
Moreover. since this fact can be perceived from the circumstances of
the dispute the original decision concluded that the dispute, as a
labor union movement or a lator movement, had not deviated from a
regular sphere and was not illegal in the least. The points of argu-
ments merely argue the facts already decided by the original decision
to the effect that the insistence of the union members was from the
beginning to the end economic demand and that the expulsion of the
chief of the Mining Office indicated in the decision was not their
chief aim. Therefore. the arguments have no grounds.
5. Fifth point_of the eppeal.
The injurious treatment referred to in Article il of the Labor
Union Law or Article 40 of the Labor Relations Adjustment Law should
be interpreted not only to mean injurious and discriminatory economic
treatment
UNCLASS IFIED

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
Enelosure No. 3,
Tokyo's Despatch 374,
June 11, 1949.
- 4-
treatment such as reduction of salaries, suspension of raise of
salaries, etc., but also to include broadly injurious and discrimina-
tory spiritual treatment. Accordingly, when an employer has ordered
suspension of work, it may be interpreted to come under the so-called
injurious treatment prescribed in these provisions, although no in-
jurious result is brought about thereby in economic treatment such as
allowances, etc. Specifically, the accused ordered suspension of work
of ASAE Minsha and 77 other members of the union, according to the o-
riginal decision, and acknowledged that he thereby reduced allowances.
Also according to the evidence it can be concluded that the union
members were, as a result of the suspension of work, entitled to only
basic salaries, and not to family allowances or allowances for work
in the pits. Therefore, it is not illegal in the least that the o-
riginal decision interpreted the suspension of work to mean the injuri-
ous treatment prescribed in the foregoing provisions of law.
6. Sixth point of the appeal.
It is as explained in the preceding paragraphs thet in short the
original decision recognized that in the cases of ASAE Minsha and 70
odd members of the Mining Labor Union and SATo Itsuhiko and 13 members
of the Mining Office Ewployees Union respectively, the accused ordered
suspension of wcrk and discharge, blaming them for the dispute, bring-
ing pressure to bear upon the union members, and attempting to destroy
the unity of the unions and to weaken them. The argunents in the ap-
peal reiterate that the union members were responsible for the illegal
sabotage. and that the treatment in this ease was made to call to as-
count the eabotage. On these premises the arguments merely attack the
originel decision. In short the arguments criticize the finding of
facts which belongs to the exclusive right of the original trial. Ac-
cordingiy. the arguments do not constitute lawful grounds for appeal.
For the reasons above described, the above decision is given as
the text in acccrdance with the provisions of Article 2 of the Law
Governing Enforcement of the Code of Criminal Procedures and of Arti-
cle 446 of the old Code of Criminal Procedures.
The above is the unanimous opinion of all judges concerned.
Procurator MIYAMOTO Masuze participated in the decision.
April 23, 1949
No. 2 Petty Bench. Supreme Court
Presiding Judges
TSUKASAKI Naoyoshi
Judgess
SHIMOYAMA Seiichi
KURIYAMA Shigeru
FUJITA Hachiro
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.67)
1
有
4
11L
“1

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.89)
2
JUL
49

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.74)
同十月五日同盟四能業を解除し、作幸正開始した
して、二れをる体化せしようと云う気おむあって
百向組合員彈瓜色加文組合團結巨破壞
真伍を問い二れにあわせて、前記宇議に新する責任
加低下し經營秩序加破壞一延之事業を破減
組合口見のうち人卜に出たかあ二れかため作能卒
第一同二十月十二目今同月二十四日にわたって鉢員
しかるに被告人は
あ争議行為を熱心にした者にして就業を
にあ組合事務に從事し未た前記爭議
貴任者かでなく從來より迴合の幹部的地位
浅江民舍外七十七名の君にのぼる前記為業
問うと六う名目で鉉員組合員のうち組合う
截
前記
所

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.72)
何するあ勤停正処分は馳意繼統にか、るものとする
たも己あて右銘員組合員並に職員
第二同年月手五音前記鉞業祈に而之職
二同上月音前同前而一律以前同樣
な取扱いきなし、
臣し国って給運の滅少をきたさしめて不利金
停正自宅で謹慎するとを命じて出勤停止処分
うち二名を除いたものに対して解雇るな
名目で右浅江民今外七十五名古出勤停止者
給要の減力とまさしめて不利血な取服いるな
機するとを入命じて出勤停止処分をし同って
真住正問い何か沙にをるすで自宅で待
欽員組合負に加擔し手議に加した二と
員佐藤溢彥外十三名し乙同人等加前記

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.85)
4
0

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.71)
大
四○三二
田
三三

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.88)
S
原
そ
と
記
法
者
0
と
者
行
取
で
判
同
0
判
0
第
汇
間
又
水労働組合具
為
行為の寶任を
扱
事寶を認定した運法又は探證
決
第
他
示
如
四
には因果關係が存
は労幼爭議
0
を
寅任
0
二
所
した
き
した場
認
點
被告人
3
定
0
と
0
器
した
つ
と
利
み
合に
め
S
に
0
反
益取极行為
を
を
石
て
理由
所為
方
問
併
お
に充分で
L
3
9
世
人
て
を
8
する
て不利益取
て
0
は
認定してと
0
と
間
は
本
と
は
à
作犯
少
認
労傷組
と
L
む
が
と
は
図
罪行為
8
明
右
労
扱
が
不
法
江
き
合
0
を
あ
右
則
所
蓝
0
を
で
法
で
労仍者
方
に違反した點は
はっ
0
解
前
第
あ
合
た
意
0
記
る
一一條又は労仍闕
る
の
図
r
原
法
を
谷法
に
正
場
6
0
う
判
は
誤
從
ら
対
當
合
世
外
汇
决學示
方
つ
條
つ
右使
する
と
上單
に組合員の
た
て原判決
行
は異
不
認
远
の
法
用者
利
を
汇
め
に
證
は
益取扱
不當怠
5
る
係
0
れ
2
为
が
労
當
淙
四
前
と
2
锄
怠
(二)

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.83)
5
炭鈔職員労伪組合と
大浜炭鉱株式會社鈔業所と
黔
責任
に出た
を
人
を
如
扎
單
れ
同
旨は原の認定せ
笔
2
に右組合員等
そ
第
等
うたも
に対して不利益取扱
問う趣意
論旨は数告人の赤した判示労勘組合員に対する不利益取殺が
主張
を
判示組合員の一部に対しては判示
の協約にお
简
の
するも
である
のてはな
あ
の判示の如き不當怠業行為の寶任の
0
に
2
いていわゆる
0
に外ならな
と
間
並にその他
を
同鉉業所職員左
れと併せて判示爭議寶任等を同趣
した
石
の組合目に附しては專ら判示爭
0
0
ク
二
5
は
口
と
年
1
の如之不當怠業行之の實
る
一一月勞位協約か締結
ズ
必原判決は前點說明
つて結成せられた大浜
F
○不當怠業實任
のてはな
日
y
みを
の
と
で
S尙同
の規定
5
0
の
が
心
0
x
C
3

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.58)
0è8

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.53)
程二二二二四二公里

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.79)
我
王
S
2
3
は
7
2
2
2
3
7
0
1
9
q
q
C
2
4
C0
甲公安
de
4
2
2
宋
5
9
2n
a
2
2
2
示
0
0
21
x
へ
0
2
2
8
0.
到示
q
王
7
2
24
2
回
示
①
21

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.82)
原
V=
向
判
3
犯
關
ラ
判
9
行
上
8
示大浜炭欽株式會趾火浜飲樂所長の追故主張して労幼爭
同
事
罪
所
为
を
0
合
第
2
ふんS
安上曰
石
長たる
F
は必
図
で
四
と
如
3
は
お
點
は
上
ずしも労働親合無助として正むな範困
た
方
S
に
で
9
0
欽哲人の追欺
て
如
點
SU
そ
史的求
といんとはそ曰主眼てか
P
石
a
0
の貫微
0
C
5
逸
断
わ
に始し判示
脫
濟的地
な示さな
5
0
ら右に
石
目
的
法
は
の
位
と
律
と
0
0
上

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.70)
右意業寶任を問うためになされたものであるとと去論通しとれを
三田分
にいるでるとしたことはし通法でない
の原田止分目して前
たさしめたとと定してるのであつて且示の證によれば
舍外七七名記して曰謝止處分し因つて給與の讀少至
して妨げない殊に原判示に上れば從舌人は判示組合員淺江民
EKS
3

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.84)
前提として原判決を攻方るに過言十畢竟原審の享權記同す
S州OU0
以上○理由二餘德行法第二餘日刑談法第四四六餘紀從
昭和二四年四月二三日
最高義號第二小法
裁判官
說判官
裁判官
塚
田
山
山
八
精
直
郎
茂

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.69)
为一吳本件公訴事実の弟一は要十る被告人
系護人毛受傳雄四廣澤道彥の上白趣意
二十二年十月二十五曰右欽業所七於右勞働紹合辰歲江國
如く良好か七為め被告人は此進行せ会
作業公雨始日正鄉孫後四作業能宰会社四期待世
目末大綱刃協定云出耒翌目五日同盟罷業之解除
勞動爭議主行不心至り同年九目十曰詞盟罷業七入り同
員四經濟的地仕刃向上刃爲力の所長道放左目的一之
四和二十二年八月二十一曰同組合刃自主性刃維持並七組合
社大浜缺業所々長あ了同鉉業所員労働組合付
小野田市小野田千二十番地所在の大浜炭株式会

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.66)
2
之之拘六十其分後七於之組合寅甲七は何等正当理由
不七在之上對一被自人以右出勤停止必分並解
明和二十二年十一月五日百同所七於之右江外七十日有
由大勤傳止巡分正為一不刊益取我王為一
四幹部明地仕七在一之細合事務七從事一之居三二之
外勞勸組合員七十七名二対七目人等公前記尚錢爭說
一師相織的目一集田的な急業七出方子者云死
4.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.65)
3.
他急業分空後き助長な正し七勿公あっ七去内作業能率か低下
南加僅少之功力去日係員刃指不七從は女力之り急業正指運爛動之
兹出勤一たかったり總純して生勤なかっ去出勤し之王実動時
六如云寅組合貞方同年十月十二日よ日同月二十四日七わ七一之全
で原判決は其証拠理由中於之前記爭議女了七之拘
從之本件之於之寸馬人方主張十子右分如き組合員分不当女為意業
一三三二七日本件記照中原雷並七一審之於十三被吉人刀
一三公被告人刀該所為七は運法性曰曰之指爭
立求六之生時傳山父分之爲一序公其內七十六名七為一解星志申渡
以其主說者煽動者 自廿らる者七十八名七対一先反省
る上得なっ七刀に因るも刀云あって即方右不当なる急業の責任者
律き着く破壊する狀態が永くついいたので金社としては之き於置す
2

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.62)
曰云紘業租合員刀之方紐合長淺江民舍外七十七名多數一
月二十五日前記無業所七おい之一律七急業四貞任古詢不七云百名
団結之破壞一てれき弱休化女しめようと云不気持もあっ之同
而日廿之前起爭議七寸十了責任正向公組合貞七彈压走加入細合の
七導處あっ七刃己右一部の急業責任者の責任七向ひこ七
次力你業能率公低下之經曾秩序公破壞之延日之事榮王彼云
二十四日七わ七って前記鉞寅組合員力う方急業七で七も分次ありこ
指公事其乃到示事実卯一七於之十一昭和二十二年十月十二日末日同月
言人功主張寸多欽貧組合員刃不当急業分事実之全面幽七認功七分七
永井幸作七才百各記肉調書中回証人等の供速詔載七文
盡人田國蹈治の供速記載並七証人國田治男於谷彬
は二貞七肉十る被告人刃当公廷七おける供述幼二回公判調書中
一經當秩序女破壞し延い之事業左破減七導く虞かあったと

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.64)
原判夫刀右說明は其趣意寸 所公前記出勤傳止後分左受十正七
の云はねばならない」と利示し女のである
被如分者及被解自者の全員七い之不当怠業勿責任存寸之は
新的地位七あ組合事務七從事したりXは爭議行為正熱心七一
白與分正受十之者と忌業七く甘何等四任日な組合力
十八名尺公被解自者七十六名四中七寸貞七不当怠業四責任者
おいて前記出勤停止如分並七碑皇は全休と付運法性
で右浅江民舍外七十五名七対して解室主な一た認定一結局
报正な一曰同年十一月五日前同所七古い之一律上前同扶名目
て出勤停止分士し因給与の減少王来ちさ不利西な取
走熱心七七者て就業上停止し自宅心謹順命
臣る前記急東責任書由か日至なく從來よ日細合幹新雨地位

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.59)
実ご功るとは勿論ぐ切る上七更と記錄と微才れは右等被解
原利決自身之正認定一之居る刀云切子亦之之等力者女不当
は存ら存い二とは後述如あ不当急業勿事実日前刃也
之之理由七解雇其の他刀不利益必遇之しくも何等還法念分
百十れ臣原判決は須く右被巡分者中果一之何人紫
為地位七あって細合事務從事一三りまた爭議行為之心
之を認めるけれいもその怠業の責任と共これとあは廿て組合刀幹部

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.59)
7
十る解星其也力不利益從過之禁十子刀起旨乙初之宦其他
四十條七一之等定中專分同法條所定力理由正之
抑七帝法十一一一法
一其理由
及一分書甲或者之不
田島鶴治等刀各供過七依っ之何れ去急業分責任者云切去二
記載天公原審七於十証人国田泊男反未辛作

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.68)
s
f
の行為の上と認んと十る公さは夫自体論理の不盾ふあって斯かる
直方七他面七於て違法行為なるとい不棟な二者背及の事実正一個
当刀認定と云は也由なら斥い蓋一一面七於法律上正当な行為が
條運反の行為と為十公如きは右各法條規定の趣旨走逸脫一云不
潛在的女意四ま云も探索一く以之強い之被告人刀所為さ前記各
るが如き意四さ持って居ちものと推剛し得る場合でて
行為と目さるべきで日る女方後以被者ぐか酒在的七は原決力以
被告人の行為は法律上正当刀理由基くのあって正律
等才者志怠業責任者占て出勤停止如分並七解產也分寸
原田決冬本件七於十多被也分者及被解者曰全員七不当急業
も禁ずる趣旨でないことは解取上疑刃ない所である
場合七於之其の正当な理田以いく之等分古為十ことまる
の不利益忽過正な十七之便用者制之古正当とする他理由あ
2

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.63)
破壞一之事業之破力
七者次五日且一其四急業勿程度会在事業經嘗長序
傍觀らない二日帝了
不正不当行行為也為之七も便用日正世
5

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.59)
決は到底破毀正免れ支いも刀と信ずる
認定し七久或曰審理不盡理田不備力運法の其し八之の心與司
とい不林な心か之も其の意味明確ない漢七
冬分きこ全休ては運法性があるものと小
い之果一て之等の者怠業青王有あか何與
ら出勤停止如分並七解雇如分志受十七名個次力組合
刃であった事実を認めRらその怠業責任吉とて神告人
原判決甘前記の如吉人欽貞組合曰
i1

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.66)
11
曰爭議十游動相合運動又寸汤動興動
七と定一て君る之之田
そのぐなかっちこと
多理三相当し七者きあ
民舍外十六名九之理爭經丁
長同書記長及公同部委
二十六名日同副組合要同書記法同職委年長
?
正

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.68)
古淺江組合長以下副細合長
理甘通常人の推理の法則に着しく及さるのである
事実を認め得るか甚也諫解七昔大っ之原判
以上の原判決舉未の事臾也方如何七七殺上原用次
寧日事実主舉出以上勿事實世本件爭議原及公逢
人等を解會し七こと。
しく同人等が怠業の責任春であること承しのと

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.65)
十
所謂繼合幹都七談為十子者相百多義切日之等天何非之爭議

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.55)
盛室茂雄建築命長省本正市進炭課及一餘原秀正
中公去勤傳止如分並以產冬分之受切之者生何不当宗業一
汝井幸作刃各記向調書之依小如之等祖合韓部經通者力
田書十一名十三曰十何
四直松留正辛矢原保山本等雄天野過經三田
藤原勇二名及公委貞刀思玉久雄思玉秋人有田可
細台長以下細合季貞總數二十八為中公刻監查三開作

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.73)
一
一一丁七記載力解理田七依小实上三爾讀
3
二十三年三月十五日及回四月一日
石田與一同一吉次信乃同白百三之四同六
一按炭侯爾）小林明同一亦坪十香（同）林川順
十
f

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.80)
7
心
ねいならないもので
3
力
x
日言女い成程一時本吉碑
2
L
5
3
十
切
151
11

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.80)
由三解星七
ないが
3
と
3
l
11

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.68)
とはねならないぐある
故吉人意四父他七之五七と推國十二推理七六曰
11
久

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.71)
回公一原定一
2

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.61)
2一
月二十五曰前記金業所七方時佐藤房外十三名对
本件出勤停止如分注解星七て全休とは遵性
一

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.60)
と信ず百のである原審はの被吉人刃主張十多明瞭今申実科年
從之之此の場合被自人於右十四名走臨室一正上七而等御兩所訓之
公走與不く其刃向一時白宮待機之命七主之初七張一居
2

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.59)
第四吳原判決日之証理由刀說明七方いて有認定爭議證禪
破葉さ照小ないも分と信ずる
原判決は右十四名女職貪涕衝組合員不乃る之刃と正全遺忘一
加之右十四名女鉉貞俎今貢以加四一本件手成加云三七日四
脫しち逢法云切るものと信十る。

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.67)
十
明人
一要一
八月二十九日要
二十二年八月十一日文一四二十二年
X

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.62)
れざるものと見るや漸してさ張曰いて之代る提案
迪其主十言
必前記力相本件爭議日經濟兩二下七
單一七組合幹部が本件爭議分結末七際一其力主則之七所力而反
乙復與實金九十万田其也分經骨的要求会社側七申出
一
3

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.79)
日十四
十
7
1
三一
卜

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.73)
二公
1
う
6.
2..
1.1
17
14.
1
i
十
1
六

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.74)
第六貞本牛法貞細白命力
一
秩帝正破壞爽事業
七四十
7.
11
之正原判次の記玉る
本件出勤停七處分
諸物資日配給
3
C.
2
と
才.
う
L
F
なっ
3
2
双
1
2)
è
2
而
、大
1
y
ml
配
1
1
米
i
11
自
w
3
y
.1
.3
;
t：
小
で
7.

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.74)
ら
会社制
いて行しちと
作策能宰至低下世之め延之会社事業不彼滅七陷世
早集田的なとので
*
2
3
公曰右の卷策六十月十二日
ではくして採夫
の正或日組自劉公訣望地協定正有利七導く為以
a
2.
のこあ
2
3
3
3
1
さ
夫
こと
大
心
3
1
四事制

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.77)
2

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.64)
下
四周次長七ても之正之自の急業直ち七止去とと期待云
…

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.67)
11
て置くとは公社日到底堪八らなことあっ当時公注經理の
斯云る不当之理由
人八
5
3
1
1

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.57)
FnSE
一其後平國後四
歸來直古七高橋事為因田次長反符另務課長以下功合社首腦帝
7

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.75)
J
稻
後之江念長下細本作業一き
又甘審理不盡
と云ゆれてとさく対ては何等命解の辞はな
i
木
3
七
2
X
と
E.y
上
主

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.97)
.Urgont
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY
EUR - Mr. Hickerson
oan the attached memo be sent
to S/s this afternoon to be
added to your memo covering
other subjeots?
G:Bromley Smith

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.94)
.Urgent
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY
EUR - Mr. Hickerson
If you have no objections,
can the attached memo be sent
to S/S this afternoon to be
added to your memo covering
other subjects?
BxS
bks
G:Bromley mith
0K0
srrn

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
This paper was considered by Mr. Webb along
with the EUR memoranda although no indication
to that effect is shown thereon. The reason
none appears is because it was made a part
of EUR's file of papers which was broken up
after Mr. Webb had finished with it and the
various memoranda sent back to the originating
offices.

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.98)
De/R
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
Office Memorandum
JUN 2 31949
TO
The Acting Secretary
DIVISION OF
TE: June 13, 1949
Through :
s/s
FE - Mr. Butterworth lbw
FROM
SUBJECT:
Your Meeting with the Australian Ambassador on June 14
Problem
To persuade the Australian Ambassador to table or
withdraw his Government's resolution now before the FEC
relating to the labor rights of Japanese Government
enterprise workers.
Discussion
89
Last summer, as a result of serious abuses of power
94.504/6-1349
by organized Japanese Government workers, SCAP recommended
and, under the direction of occupation officials, the
Japanese Government passed several laws, known as the
National Public Service Legislation, restricting the
rights of Japanese Government employees. The USSR and
the Japaneee Communists condemned SCAp's action in toto.
The FEC countries and United States organized labor have
criticized the restrictive provisions of these laws as
excessive. The United States Government (State, Army,
Labor) has informed SCAP privately that it regarded
certain phases of the laws defective and has unsuccess-
fully attempted over the last nine months to have certain
minor corrective measures taken. At the same time, the
United States Government has opposed the passage of any
FEC policy decision which would publicly reverse SCAP
on this highly delicate issue.
The issue presents itself today in the form of an
Australian Resolution before the FEC which provides that:
"Bearing in mind that it is a matter for the
occupation authority in Japan to decide when strikes
and other work stoppages should be prohibited as
directly prejudicing the objectives or needs of the
C
occupation, the FEC decides as a matter of policy
that the provisions of FEC O45/5 (principles for
175655
Japanese Trade Unions) should be applied to workers
A
in Japanese Government enterprises."
Despite repeated attempts by the United States Govern-
ment to have this resolution defeated or tabled, the Resofu-
tion was passed by the Steering Committee on May 31 by a
2
vote
31943
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
vote of 6 to 1, the United States alone opposing and the USSR,
China, Netherlands and Philippines abstaining. It 1s now
before the Commission and will probably be voted upon within
the next few weeks.
The U.S. is therefore faced with an immediate choice
between three course of action: (1) not voting against
the resolution which, in effect, would permit its adoption.
This is highly inadvisable for it would directly reverse
SCAP, require a major rewriting of the National Publio
Service Legislation, unquestionably produce politioal
turmoil in Japan, etc. (2) Defeating the resolution by
a U.S. veto.  This would require that the U.S. use the
veto to defeat a resolution which no other countries
oppose. It would not settle the controverey but afford
the Soviets an opportunity publicly to present the U.S.
as alone opposed to the "rights" of Japanese labor. (3)
Further seeking the withdrawal or tabling of the resolution.
Although the Australian Delegation to the FEC is acting
under firm orders on this matter from the Australian Labor
Government, there is believed to be some merit in making a
high-level restatement of our position in the hope that the
Australian Ambassador will act at least to seek the post-
ponement of an FEC vote. In the meantime the Department
plans to make a further joint State-Army-Labor approach
to SCAP with a view to his having certain minor modifica-
tions made in the National Public Service Legislation,
which are designed to dispose of this problem in the FEC.
(The thought in the previous sentence should not, of course,
be communicated to the Australian Ambassador.)
Recommendation
It 1s recommended that you raise this question with the
Australian Ambassador, pointing out to him the desirability
of tabling or withdrawing his Government's resolution. There
follows some of the arguments that might be presented to him.
(1) The controlling FEC directive, to which
the Australian resolution refers, is a broad state-
ment of principles for Japanese trade unions, which
does not state to which specific group it does or
does not apply. SCAP acted within his proper admin-
istrative discretion in interpreting the direotive
aB
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 3 -
as he saw fit, and his interpretation of the
directive has been translated by the Japanese
Government into a series of laws. The effeot
of the Australian resolution, if adopted,
would be to require a major rewriting of these
laws which in turn would undermine the position
of the present Government, create political
unrest and jeopardize the stabilization program.
(2) The Australian resolution would permit
unrestricted use of the strike weapon by Govern-
ment enterprise workers unless expressly for-
bidden by military fiat. This would impose on
the occupying authority (and on the U.S. as
principle occupying power) the direct respons-
ibility for the banning of each strike as it
arose --- a situation which would create
continual uncertainty and turmoil.
(3) The adoption of the Australian resolu-
tion would be an FEC reversal of a position
publicly taken by SCAp. The loss of prestige
which SCAp would suffer from such a reversal
would seriously threaten the ocsupation. It
would play directly into the hands of the Com-
munists.
(4) Accordingly, if the Australian proposal
1s put to a vote, the U.S. will be impelled to
vote against it. The Australians will not gain
their objective, the U.S. will be placed in an
embarrassing position. No one, except the Soviets
and their Japanese Communist Party minions, will
reap any advantage from the vote.
(5) The U.S. regrets that on a question
bearing so directly upon Japan's internal security
the U.S. and Australia cannot see eye to eye. For
the U.S. has assumed the principle burden for
maintaining, on behalf of itself and of likeminded
powers, the peace and security of the Pacific.
The U.S. will be hard put to carry out this
responsibility if it does not have the support
of Australia and of other friendly powers on
matters directly affecting their common security.
66.3
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.93)
5801
SECRET
Öffice Memorandum
SECRETARY
MR. RUSK
JUN 3 0 1949
TO
: G - Mr. Rusk
TE: June 19, 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATES
sUBJEcT: Australian Resolution before FEC on Rights of Employees
of Japanese Government Enternrises
Problem
To establish a United States course of action with
respect to meeting the problem of the rights of labor in
Japanese Government cnterprises which is seriously em-
barrassing United States relations with friendly FEC
countries and is provoking antagonism to our occupation
program from te Japanese labor movemont.
Discussion
Files
Central
DC/R
This Document Must Be Returnua
1. Last year as a result of serious abuses of power
89
especially of the right to strike, on the part of certain
categories of Javanese government employees, SCAP recom-
4
monded and, under the direction and guidance of responsible
Occupation officials, the Japanese Government passed
several laws restrictin the ri hts of such employees. The
USSh and the Japanese Communists condemned ScaP's action
in toto. The restrictive provisions in these laws have
been severely criticized as going too far by nearly all
FEC countries, as well as by organised United States labor.
The Department, on its part, has also believed that the
legislation was defective in certain important respects
6
and has attempted for nearly ten months to have certain
minor corrective measures taken. at the same time, we
4
00
6
have opposed passage of any Ec olicy decision which
would publicly reverse ScaP on this highly delicate issue
and bring about loss of his prestige in Japan.
2. The issue presents itself today in the form of
an Australian esolution before the FEC which provides that:
"fearing in mind that it is a matter for the
occupation authority n Japan to docide when
strikes and other work stoppeces should be pro-
hibited as directly prejudicing the objectives
or needs of the occupation, the FEC decides as a
3
matter of pelicy that the provisions of FEC
O
5
045/5 (Principles for a anese Trade Unions)
L
1
DC/R
should be applied to worrers in Japanese
FILED
工
C
Ana1 15
Government enterprises."
f
1
5
6
ROv
52
SECRET
f
X 100197

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
-2-
This Resolution was passed at the ay 31 meeting of
the FEC Steering Committee by a vote of six in favor
(Australia, U.M., Caneda, New Zealand, India, and France)
to one opposed (U.s.), with four abstentions (UssR, China,
Netherlands, and Philippines). It is now before the
Commission and will probably be voted upon within the next
few weeks and unless we act rapidly, we will, I believe,
again be alone in opposing it.
Several attenpts have been made by officers of the
Department to secure withdrawal of the mustralian proposal,
but all heve been unsuccessful. The Australian Ambassador
mows thet a majority of -c countries support his proposal.
he cannot lightly disregard tneir support. He and his
supporters believe txt some corrective action - if not in
the Fore or 0 uction on the ustralian nesolution, then
by ot er poens - is necessary to prevent wealtening of the
Josition or l or in the democrauic process in Japan. He
mows that the onited win eom, Canada, ew Zealand, with
their lon: cxperionce in democratic trade unionism, share
with ustralia ti fear that purticular aspects of Scap's
present lubor policy, far fron. checking Conunist influence
amongst Japanese lubor may, in fact, be producing the
opposite erfect. e may susreet that the United States
Jovernment is simil rly concerned over the situation and
objects only to the ustralian methed of coping with it.
however, we have not at any time stated our own views on
the substantive issues involved, though openly opposing
the Australian cacl tion, a procedure which has annoyed
but at the same time crpeare to have strengthened the
sotormination cf the Conmonvealth countries at leest to
pusl ahead. The cutent or their annoyanee was shown in
the veceat vote in the s steering Cormittee on a Soviet
tesol-tion extremely critical of ptaP's labor program
where only the united States voted against the usSR
position, all other nine amber countries abstaining. In
my cpinion, uhererore, the ustralian Ambassador will not
a reo to letting his  eselution lapse unless he is pro-
vided witl definite assurances that the united states
tovernment intends, on its om rart, to accomplish sub-
stantially the same onds by dirlerent and better means.
S. The nited States is therefore confronted with
haviny to make an carly chcice between: (1) voting against
the hesol tion, whiel in effect means use of the veto;
(2) not voting egainst the csolution which would permit
its
SORT

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
- 3 -
its adoption; (3) following the course of action contained
in the recormondations below, which is to establish a
nitcd States pcsition on the basis of which the Australian
Anbassador will a ree to withdraw his Resolution.
4.  se cr the unilateral veto has a nunber of serious
disaavantares. It utilises in the Plc a method of ob-
seruet on or majerthy vill e e use or which by the Soviets
in bhe nited Hations has been condeuned by us and by
other nations. .o met ox met that our action would be
wade mewn to  an  a peet o bho world by press and
padso, na t a wo  s ld be presented es havins opposed
alonee ts    ese ler.oreover, veto of
this csolusion moul not in lly sottle this highly con-
trovevsial insue. e may srertly be faced with a new FEC
roselution callins For a position which accords with that
whier  re recommendiny below, namely: that government
enter rise worters should have normal labor rights without
the ripht to strike. sinee thts is a prineiple which we
ourselves beljove in, we world be placed in a far more
onbarrassin predicanent than we are in at present.
inally, voto of the present ecolution vould be another
of a series of recent united States actions on Japan that
have aroused resentment on the part of other friendly FEC
nomber countrios. avoidance of unilateral action on this
issue is thus hi hly desivable if :t all possible.
5. On the other hand, I am convinced that the United
States iovernment chould not, under any circunstances,
vote For the ustruliun esol tion. The controlling FEC
directive ( 0 O4s/5) to which this esolution refers is
e broud statement or principles for Japanese trade unions
which does not state to which speciric groups of workers
it does or does not apply. sCaP acted within his proper
adcinistrative ciscretion in ruling that all of its pro-
visions (inclucine the unrestricted right to strike) should
not necessarily apply to all  es or overnment cmployees.
(Obviously, they should not all apply to normal civil
servants, cuardians of public safety, and so on.) In the
opinion of State, Lrbor and army - while Ir. toyall was
Secretary - SoaP vas justified in ruling that industrial
workers in the Ja unese overnment railway system and in
the movernment monopelies phould be cranted most nermal
lobor richts but not the ri ht to strike. What these
three Depaptuments have epposce has been Seap's refusal to
extend these same rights to the only remaining roup of
covernment entorprise wor ers, namely: the employoes in
the
SCCT

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
一4-
the telecommunications services. The arbitrariness of
this discrimination has, probably more than any other
single factor, prompted among FEC countries distrust in
ScAP's labor program, provoked antagonism against SCAP
among the Japanese labor movement, and has led the State
and Army Departments on soveral occasions to request SCAP
to reconsiuer the stand he has taken. ScAp's reasons for
opposing our requests as well as an FE memorandum analyzing
SCAP's reasons are attached at Tab A.
6. The United States Government, in particular the
State and Labor Departments, has continued to be genuinely
concerned over the labor situation in Japan. Two develop-
ments that have occurred durin: the past six months have
tended to engender Japanese laoor antagonism to American
autherities in Jepan. irst, Jananese labor has inter-
preted SCaP's recent attitude towards labor rights of
covernment ennloyees as foreshadowing a general reversal
in the sympathetic and friendly attitude towards labor
displayed by ScaP during the initial period of the occu-
pation. Second, the implementation of the economic stabili-
zation program, through its wage stabilization, employment
rationalication, nd tax measures, has been interpreted as
imposing upon the working population the primary burden for
making the over-all stabilization program effective.
Japanese Comminist leaders, particularly those holding
positions of responsibility in trade unions, are using
these two developments to porsuade the rank and file of
the labor movenent that A erican occupation authorities
have ceased to be intdrested either in the welfare or in
the democratic political potential of the working classes.
Since wage stabilization and associated labor control
measures of some sort are necessary short-term prerequisites
For eneral stabilization of Japan's cconomy, the way in
Vich the united States can best refute Communist propaganda
is to rearfirm clearly, and to the maximum extent possible
enlarge the incorporation of, sound principles or labor
ri hts in permanent Ja anese lecislation. Continuation of
the present situation will contribute to the strengthening
of Comunist in luence within the trade union movement.
7. The issue which I have outlined above has been
considered within the United States Government and between
it and SCaP in a series of conversations and conmunications
which began in ugust l94s. Assistant Secretary of Labor
Jibson reported to us in arch that General MacArthur
personally, upon being informed of some of the practicable
measures which could be taken to deal with the labor
situation
SECRET

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
- 5 -
situation in Japan, gave evidence of an open-minded and
sympathetic attitude tovards the washington viewpoint.
Upon one principle State, Labor, and usually Army, have,
over the entire period, been in consistent agreement,
namely: that all non-executive enployees of government
enterprises in Janan should be accorded full collective
bargaining rights, including the right of mediation and
crbitration but not t c right to strike. Except for his
discrimination against the some 150,000 telecommunications
workers, SoaP, too, could be said to have supported this
principle. In our nost recont cormunication to SCAP on
this subject we told hin that if the United States Government
were in a position privately to assure the Australians and
certain other of the C ccuntries that the United States
and SCaP supported this principle and that full effect will
be iven to it by SoaP as soon as practicable, this long
and unhappy controversy could almost certainly be laid at
rest. Our proposal was desi ned to spare SCAP embarrass-
ment. It did not require that SCaP taite any immediate or
ifricult cction. The refusal or the SCAP Headguarters,
which has been now surported by the Army Department, leads
me to tho conclusion that our objoctives can be achieved
only if chere cun bc established a high level United States
Governmont position on the matter which is brought fully
to bear upon SonP with the notice that if he can not
accept that authority  or his cuidance the United States
Government  soon be placed in the deplorable position
wrere it could net cfford to oppose issuing a directive
alone the lines of the principles stated tbove. y first
reco mpondation, stated below, is based upon this conclusion.
y second recomcendation would, I believe, effectively
delay puttine the  ctrulian mesolution to a vote in the
Ic For several wecks, since it would be the first time
the nited States oveenrent weuld have indicated that it
has a comoromise ronosal to ciscuss.
eco mmendations
I reconmend s. ut the ..ctin" secretary take up with
: r. Stcclman in the white pouse the poseibility of obtain-
ing frem Ir. slmson, Seeretary of Mational Defense, and
r. fobin, secretary or L bor, a reemont to the principle
that soaP should be re  iren to take steps to provide that
all non-executive euployees of pove nment enterprises in
Ja an be accorded rull collective bargsining rights,
includin: the richt of modiation ans apoitratcon, but not
the right to srrite.
I recomend
C

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.87)
SECRET
- 6 -
I recommend, further, that, if you can agree that
these steps should be taken to obtain a high level United
States Government position upon this matter, you authorize
appropriate representatives of the Department to make
informal approaches to the Commmonwealth FEC Delegations
expressing the hope that they can await the development
of a Unitei States position with respect to rights of
Japanese vorkers in government enterprises before putting
the Australian Hesclation to a vote in the FEC.
 proooses  rve to sr, notryine ham of this Govern-
ment s poetin s aa at va
Enclose:
Tab k-Yole rap e wrchanve with Sor
and  Yemo.
Ta -Proosed Tra to SuaF.
CD:arnett:
3.
ITP:ILS:PUSUSliver: PC
ITP
HOTD
8/9/49
SECRET

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.90)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAPF M-SSAGE CENTER
OUTGOINO CL.SS LF IED MESSAGE
SECRET
PHIORITY
To:
CCAP
487160
28 Apr 49
rom .cito
Pas one. t musti oint comaitteo on laber
polioy in an, l surl lclon was passed by erri
ative vetes c! e  lit o  ers, roprasontatives attompte to
delay action fuiling: "Lcarin in mind that it is a matter for
the pocupcicn suth i dapu. t douido nen strikes and other
work stoppaces slild be pruited as sireotly prejudioing the
objectives or mods ion, he docides 
mttor o polioy at   Cis/s (prinoiploe for
Japaneso de pione l  iied to workers in Japanes
Govt enterpriscs.  is now in steering committee
stage.
rast bec. lhslto  faced with the alter
nativee  either (1)ptel tion ich se regrd 
objectionable, ()et uin  clution vbich is almost
certain to be made known to the ross by tho soviet member plae-
ing the  cvt in a 1ly uuarassing pos, or (3) Seeking
the withurawal or taoliix oi to  sur lian rusolution.
rart three. s for he  rd ulternative, we are conviseed
after six mos of discussion or cho lationel rub Sv Law in the
Com that the other co n rios i! cont to insist upon seoing
certein chenves in une ation ib v Law and will endeavor to
foree a vote 1n t, unl ss  e io ssurance that caP and
the   ovt are doiny everyting posalole to give recognition
to their points of view. s 'on as they believe we are not
doing t is, the Hational  ur  cw will cont to be source of
friotion in our intormacional lations, pertieularly unfor
tunate in respect to our friencly -1lcagues in YEC.
Part r. Shat the ct er cosntries have rupeatedly sought
from us is an prossion of at, in our opinion, should be the
principles overnins Jo anese ovt mrkers. The pos that we
have taken so for is thnt  (Mo/s is a broad statement of
principles for a aneoe rede  nione which does not indicate the
speciric cats of worhere to  ioh it applies or doos not apply.
This pos is obviously unresponcive to the particular questlon
raised by  stralian proposal (spd vy other friendly conntries)
as well as by important aegmentz of opinion in this country.
It is regardod as dosirable that the  nited states sovt should

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.85)
BECHET
PRIORITY
Page S
MP: WAR 87068
ake kmoum to friendly countries a more positive stand em this
question.
Part five. In orier to i.) (lariry the pos of the Us, (B)
Counter  strelian proposal now vufore Ic, (c) Effeetively meet
eriticism ady by other friondly cuntries in FEC, it is proposed
that the vi, thro uhe ciplumacio channel here:
1. Approacn certuin riondly FEc countries infemmmlly
and point out co chem (: clioate uituation now obtaining
in apan () o re t rooking the boat, partioularly
at i cime,ste reperoussions which would
flow fr foroin u  sur iuan proposal to a vote, and
(b) he desire on ie  o  t refrain fr intodueing
pelicy statemants ciro sorloin tho disorotion of scar
on.1omttor.
P. Lru ome -cisouly  lerios trt we andorso the
pr' ciple at, at te me consicered aprop by scap. ull
colleci ive var min  hts. ime she right of modiatien
andr itrer on  ot ot i ihe, should be axtonded to
all non erscoiive full o employees of sovt enterprises
ane thet the temm cvt  uporiaoa" should ino the
Japanese Net on1. he Japan Honopoly Pub Corpor
atlon end  uew copon Inc relecoxmunioations S.
3. nro friendly  ariea tlat Scap is familiar with
te roposele outlined in subuara one and subpere twe above.
agreco with tho primeiple omoooled in subpare two and will
indertsko 1 aplsmancing action as soon as prectieable in
tho light of the omers cond poouliar to the situatien in
Japan.
4. In liyht or ovo info iven frlendly countries,
soor their spt in cut inin wishdrawal or tatling of
A strelian pr posal.
Part six. Your corrents rrently recuested.
CAD
5A
02 87868
(49)
AG:
2882192 m
C

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTHENT OF THE ARMY
CLASSDPIED INCOMING MESSAGE
SECRET
PRIORITY
From:
CINCYE Tokyo Japan
To :
Tept of the Army ash In.
No 1 € 69705
1 May 49
Hourmeg" a7868. The dif iculties underlying the position
of the nited States in the Far astern Commission on the point
involved are fully understood. xamination of the propesals
contained in para 2 part 5 discloses that exoept for that pro-
viding for the inclusion of the telecormunications workers under
new publio corporation as a "government enterprise", they are
fully covered by the ational Labor helations Law for Fublie
2
orporations which provides :or collective bargaining with
compulsory mediation and arbitration for all government enter
prise workers. The exoepted roup of overnment workers was
advisedly retained under the ational Fublio Service Law beeause
of the peouliar nature of tie telocommnioations facilities in
Japan. Here the government owms and operates all communication
facilities but unlike elsewhere hes no protective foree other
than the police to onsure that the channels of communioation are
meintained open. rolice uction, on the other hand, in the pre-
servation of intornal law and order is dependent upon the avail-
ability at all times of uninterrupted rapid communication. As
a consequenee, the telecomminications syatem in Japan is itself
a  ital security adjunot. oreover, such aystem here, in
additlon to lecking the protection of standing armed foroes to
be found in all othor demooratic countries, does not have
avallal lo auxiliary military commnications facilities and
technicians to mmintsin commonications when regular comveroial
channols fa1l. It 1s this peculiarity in the Japanese system
whieh impelled the ommnist drive to infiltrate into the
leadership of the communications workers a year ago which
ultimately necessitated direct P action to forestall dis-
aster to t e country then imminontly tlhreatoned.
side from the foregoing considerations, moreover, it is
not clear why the United states should hesitate if neoessary to
use the veto to dofeat the  :strulian proposal. The provislons
now written into Japunese luw and as to which some members of the
ar lastern Commission, notably having labor governments, take
oxception are already more liberal and at far reaching variance
with the law and prectlee and the underlyin philosophy of the
United States. Thus the nited tates Civil Sorvice Commission,
speaking through commissioner  rances rerkins in a letter ad-
dressed to nder-secretary raper on Sth ctober 1948, condenmed

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.96)
SRORET
NP: C 69705
Page 
as exeessive the liberality of she Japanese national publie sesvise
law and its companien legislatien then proposed and sinee en-
asted, in the following Language:
"The civil servioe policy expreased in the proposed legis-
Lation is in harmony and accord with the polioy of the United
States Jovernment in its own country. Suggestions made in the
eablegram coneerning collsctive bargaining by government employees
is out of line with the practice and polioy here. We wish te
raise with you the question as to whether anything should be ap-
proved that is contrary to policy in the United States. The
Civil Service Commission vslieves that our policy in this country
is correct and would not care to approve anything contrary to it.
"The relationship to his employer of a person working fer
the Eovernment is entirely different from that of a persen work-
ing for a private employer who makes a profit on his wages. In
the govermment service there is no questienof profit or eempe-
titien between employers, and for that reason there is no
tempation to reduce wages and lower working conditiens to the
point of exploitation. In this respect a publio emplegee is in
a protected position. in addition to =hich he has sesurity ef
temure, protestion against dismissal exeept for cause, a syetem
of appeals to the civil Service Comsission against any injustiee
to individuals by an ageney, a liberal retirement benefit based
on longth of service and compensation for injuries in the course
of employment under the employees compensation act. In this
country, und I take it in the proposed publio service law, every
employee has opportunity to take up any grievanoe with superier
officers and is usually siven the opportunity of being represented
of assisted in such procedure by a person of his own choesing, a
friend, a lewyer, or a member or his own union. Government
employees also are part of the citisenehip and they have the
opportunity to vote for their representatives in the legislature
or parliamentary traneh of the government. The parliamentary
braneh of the government through its approval of appropriations
and suitable budget controls, fixes ths mges, hours and other
economio aspeots of ihe working conditlons. As a matter of
fact, the proposed ational ublic ervice aw would proteet om-
ployees agsinat disadventageous administrative action to a much
greater extent than is granted to ove nment employees of the
nited States.
"In view of the foregoing,  question the appropriateness
as civil service matter establishins collective barguining as a
matter of right to regular givil service as well as omployees
of vove nnont corporations."
The United states, despite its own philosophy of publie
service, has thus already cone fer toward a reoing with the
CP

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.95)
SECREY
1: C 69707
Page 8
changes whieh would be mandatory under your propesals weuld in
all probability have to be imposed by foree upon the Japanese
people, for the present government fully recognising the dangers
Inherens in such a obange would not be inelined volunsarily le
accede thereto. The imposition of such force in a purely demestie
detail would mot only vitiate the policy of the United stases and
oecupation philosephy now controlling, but it would be a variamse
with the broad principles eminolated in allied poliey. Further-
more, nothing could more deeply affect the delieate Demserasie-
Soviet balanee in the Far ast than seemingly to yield to the
widely publieised Soviet propag nda offensive against our
positione The statement for the United States in the plemary
session of the Far Lastern Commission on 13th January I94e in
support of tap's letter to the Prime Minister on Pand July and the
ensuing Japanese legialation was received in Japan i th Immemse
relief. To appear even partially to reverse that positiem as
this time would lend immense support to the false Soviet pretemee
that it alene defends the rights and well-being of Japanese workers.
So action, indeed, could better sorve the Communist eause im Japan,
as it would at once be fully oxploited to atrengbhen the Communist
labor leadership preparatory to a new offensive misusing the
laber movememt to create confusion and unrest with resultins
deterioration in the local political and economic situatiom. The
general trend or esvents in the ar East gives grave warming ageinst
any compromise of prinoiple at t is time. te have every moral
and legnl right to adhere firmly to the position we have publiely
taken. It meets squarely the realities of the situation and is
in generel consonance with our own philosophies and beliefs. It
seems apmrent that if friondly govermments would accept the pro-
posal contained in para 2 of part 5 urmss, they would with no less
alacrity yield to the end des red if informed that the Umited
States intonded firmly to adhere to its opposition to the changes
provided in the ustrulian proposal. On the other hand, the
Soviet would gain little matisfection from the Ameriean vete of
the A stralian proposal, es even ir it fails to exereise the veto
itself (which 1s unlikely), it is ulready on record as strongly
opposed tl.ereto and would in all prebability conter its atsack
upon the failure of tho comnission as a wholo to support its own
much more far-reaching proposals rather than upon the Ameriean
vete action. It is accordingly felt here that the United States
should make knowm to friendly membere of the ar Eastern Commission
Its decislon firaly to adhere to the position already taken and
ondeavor to seeure their support to the vithdrawal or tabling of
the nustralian proposal to avoid neccssitating uae of the veto power.
ACTION:CAD
INOCD(STATE)CA
1116
(2 y 49)
0105452
awm/c

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.99)
p
SECRET
y
FE - Mr. Butterworth
- Mr. Allison
May 4, 1949
NA - Mr. Bond
Exchange of Telegrams with SCAP on Labor Situation
You will be interested in the underlying exohange of
telegrams between State-Army-Labor on one hand and SCAp on
the other. SCAp's refusal to agree to the carefully reasoned
proposal set forth in the attached outgoing telegram--a
proposal which imposes no difficult or immediate obligation on
SCA P and yet which would serve to extricate the U.S. Govern-
ment from a highly embarrassing position--further illustrates
the importance of a fundamental re-evaluation of the existing
regime of control in Japan.
Discussed seriatim below are the arguments raised by SCAP:
(1) SCAP states that since the Government owns and
operates all communication facilities upon which the police
are completely dependent, the telecommunications workers should
be regarded as a security adjunct and placed under direct
Government control.
Comment:
If we were advocating that telecomminications workers
be given the right to strike, SCAP's arguments would
appear to be valid; but it is difficult to see how the
extension of themot mediation and arbitration rights
would entail national disaster. Furthermore, according
to DRF Information Note of February 8, 1949, the police
communications network has been "thoroughly reorganized
to improve the direct channels of contact between the
National rural police and the local police, allowing
direct communication from Tokyo Headquarters to the
smallest police unit".
(2) SCAP states that it is not clear why the United States
should hesitate if necessary to use the veto to defeat the
Australian proposal.
Comment:
As stated in our telegram, the exercise of a veto to
defeat the Australian proposal would be made known to the
press by the Soviet member, placing the U.S. Government
in a
SECRET

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2-
in a highly embarrassing position. The veto would not
solve the basic issue and the labor question would
continue to fester in the FEC. It is U.S. policy to
avoid unilateral exercise of the veto whenever possible.
(3) SCAP quotes at length the views of Commissioner
Frances Perkins on why we should not extend to Japanese Govern-
ment workers rights not enjoyed by the U.S. Government workers.
Comment:
If the U.S. Government were "in business" as is the
Japanese Government, it would be in a better position to
argue the applicability of its laws and customs to the
situation in Japan. Government enterprise workers in
the British Conmonwealth countries have full collective
bargaining rights.
(4) SCAP argues that the statutory changes which would
be mandatory under our proposal would have to be imposed "by
force" on the Yoshida Government.
Comment:
It is recalled that SCAP imposed last year on the
Socialist-Democratic coalition rogime a series of recom-
mendations respecting Government workers rights that were
far more extensive and considerably more repugnant to that
regime than the mere proposal, described by SCAP as a
"purely domestic detail", that a telecommunications
corporation be established. During the last month SCAp's
labor division has succeeded in persuading the Yoshida
Government to tone down considerably its Trade Union
Adjustments Act. There is no reason why any greater
pressure would be necessary for persuading the Yoshida
Government to support the creation of a Telecommunications
Corporation. But in any case, we made it explicit in our
telegram that SCAP should set up this corporation only
when practicable in the light of emergency conditions
peculiar to the situation in Japan.
(5) SCAP claims that to appear even partially to reverse
the position he has taken would lend immense support to false
Soviet pretense that it alone defends the rights and well-
teing of Japanese workers".
Comment:
It is probably true that the Soviets are giving the
impression to Japanese workers that the USSR is concerned for
the
SECRET

=== Page 286 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET
-3-
the rights of workers. It is precisely for this reason
that we regard it important that the U.S. appear at
least equally concerned for the rights of Japanese
workers.
(6) SCAP maintains that the general trend of events in
the Far East "gives grave warning against any compromise of
principal at this tima".
Comment:
In the case of Gover ment enterprise workers SCAP
has enunciated no principle which we can defend or which
could be compromised.
(7) SCAP states: "It seems apparent that if friendly
governments would accept the proposal contained in para 2 of
part 5 urmsg, they would with no less alacrity yield to the
end desired if informed that the United States intended firmly
to adhere to its opposition to the changes provided in the
Australian proposal".
Comment:
The essential difference between our proposal and
SCAP's recomnended course of action is that our proposal
entails a clear statement of principle on the rights of
Japanese Government workers--a statement which the other
countries have repeatedly sought from us. Failure to
express our Government's views on this subject, as well
as failure to recognize the points of view expressed by
them in the FEC and elsewhere, will almost inevitably
result in ∞ntinued controversy over Japanese Government
workers rights. Because the Australian proposal offers
the right to strike to Government workers, we could in
all conscience present an effective argument against the
Australian proposal; but we would have, in my opinion, no
effective arguments against an FEC proposal that all
Government enterprise workers be given full collective
bargaining rights, but not the right to strike. It seems
quite probable that if the Australian proposal is with-
drawn or defeated, a resolution along the foregoing
lines would be introduced by one of the British Common-
wealth c ountries.
(8) SCAP claims that the Soviets would gain little satis-
faction from the American veto of the Australian proposal,
inasmuch as the Soviets are already on record as strongly
opposed thereto.
Comment:
SECRET

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Before making any final recommendations on how this matter
should now be handled, I believe it would be well for us to
sound out the reactions of Mr. West and Mr. Gibson. The Army
Department will undoubtedly support SCAP to the hilt and the
Labor Department will probably take a completely opposite
point of view. For the Labor Department, and for Mr. Gibson
in particular, SCAp's telegram is an unhappy sequel to his
telegrams rejecting the Labor Department's proposals for
sending a Labor Mission to Japan and for establishing an AFL
office in Tokyo.
Although SCAP has refused to go along with our proposal,
it is recommended that we proceed with the planned approaches
to friendly FEC countries in an effort to have the Australian
proposal tabled or withdrawn. If these approaches fail, the
Department is faced with the alternative of:
(1) Vetoing the Australian proposal, which would not
dispose of the overall labor issue and would expose
our Government to not inconsiderable embarrassment
and criticism;
(2)
Countering the Australian proposal with a U.S.
resolution or statement that, "at the earliest
moment deemed appropriate by General MacArthur,
government enterprise workers be given full
collective bargaining rights including mediation
and arbitration but not the right to strike"-
a resolution which would almost certainly be
acceptable to the friendly FEC countries and which
would probably dispose of the problem definitively.
The second alternative or any variation of it would be to
reverse SCAP. It would obviously be a course of action which
we would not pursue without agreement at a high level in this
Government.
In any event, it is suggested that this matter be brought
to the Secretary's attention as one more illustration of how
the situation in Japan has gotten out of hand and why plans
are now being formulated in FE for a change in the regime of
control and for a peace treaty.
Attachments:
WAR 87868 of 28 Apri1 49
C 69705 of 1 May 49 fr CINCFE
NA:MGreen:br

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.93)
Sor. Thery
-M. Brown, GFDir. Barnett
Australien Reselution befere FEc on Righss ef Eaployess
of Japanese Government Enterprises.
at Mr. Webb's Starf Conferenee. Assistans Secretany of
Laber Gibeen talked with Mr. Webb regarking this Ssswe
about ten days ago.
FE, while agreeing with the desirability of seeuring
for the empleyees of Japanese Governmens enterprises the
FW
issue with SCap in view of the ourrent laber dispates
in Japan, especially that between the empleyees of the
8
Japanese Natienal Railways and the Railway Cospesattem.
5
While wo would agree that the existenee of these
disputes complioates an approach to Scar at this momees
504
the alternative and entirely undesirable course of
action before us is to voto the Australian Reselussem
action we recommend. The terms of the proposed advise
(or instrustions) to SCAP, moreovar, leaves him
5
considerable discretion regarding the timing of the
ahange we ask him to make.
5
OFD:RWBarnott:
ITP:ILS:PBSullivaniapg
6/22/49
SECRET

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
DEPARTLENT OF THE ARIY
PERSOIAL
FROM GRAY TO MACARTHUR.
At the request of the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary
of Labor and the Secretary of State, I am communicating the
following mossage to you:
1. " fter careful reconsiceration of the proposal
advanced in WAk 37868 of 28 -pril, and of CINCFE reply,
C 69705 of May 1, we believe that for both international and
domestic political reasons the interests of United States
Government require that at the earliest practicable moment
full effect be iven to the rinciple that all non-executive
employees of Ja anese Government enterprises should be granted
FW
full collective bargeining rights inclu ing mediation and
arbitration but not the r ght to strike (ri hts you state are
extended now to all overnnent enterprise workers except
those in Telecorrunications).
8
2. "If a vote is taken in the FiC on the ustralian
esolution extending all rights of 120 O45/5, including the
right to strike, to uovernment enterprise wor cers, the United
States will oppose it, though we dislike use of the veto and
espcciclly so against a resol tion initiated and strongly
C.
supported by our most friendly allies. oreover, we are
convinced tiat until we take more than the negative position
we have perforce ado ted in discussions of this subject up
to the prosent, there is no hope t at the long unhappy
controversy on l cor in the C can be laid to rest.
Irrespective of FiC consideration, however, we believe the
United States and cnP should make it abundantly clear to the
Jap nese, to United States labor and to other Ec countries
that wo stand for the principle of poragraph one and that this
is a principle  ich had previously undorlain the Public
Corporations Laws nd is a principle  hich now, on your
initiative, ill be  ven full offect as soon as practicable.
S. 'le carnostly hope t at you vill, by indicating your
intention to implement this principle, make it possible for us
to persuade Iriondly F_C countries to abandon their intention
to secure an C action on the lubor question in Japan, bocause
in case another resolution ombodying substantially this
principle, upon which ve ourselves ust stand, were to be
introduced into the o, we would be in a position where we
could not oppose it."
SC.ET

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPUTY UNBER SECRETARY OF STATE
JUL1 1949
TO
: G - Mr. Rusk
DATE: June 30, 1949
1R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FROM : FE - Mr. Butterworth olo
Fle
suBJect: Labor Rights of Japanese Government Enterprise Workers
I have been handed a copy of the draft memorandum to you
dated June 19 fron: Mr. Thorp on the subject "Australian Reso-
lution before the FEC on the Rights of Employees of Japanese
Government Enterprises". Since this is not an economic problem
but is directly concerned with one of the most delicate and
important political issues in our policy toward Japan and in
our relations with the occupation I wish to place FE's views
on record.
This Office egrees with E that the 3CAP-eponsored legis-
lation dealing with Government workers' labor rights is defect-
ive in certein respects and has attempted for the last ten
months to have minor corrective measures taken. At the same
time FE hes opoosed the passage of any FEC policy decision which
would publicly reverse SCAP, causing him to suffer a loss of
es
prestige.
8
Where this office cannot agree with Mr. Thorp is with re-
6
epect to his contention that a Us unilateral use of the veto
4
to defeat the Australian propoeal would have the "eerious dis-
advantage" of causing the US to be presented "by press and
5
radio as having alone opnosed the rights of Japanese labor".
04
In the several talks which members of this Office have had with
Australian Embassy officials on this subject, the latter have
come to recognize the validity of our position and have intimated
that they could see no reason why we should not seek to dispose
of their resolution by opposing it in the FEC. Meanwhile, the
N
Australians have not pressed for a vote on the resolution for
O
over a month now, which leads me to suspect that they may be
4
reconsidering their position in the light of current labor strife0
in Japan. The Australians and other friendly FEC countries have
assured us that they would not ventilate this matter outeide the
confines of the FEC. The Soviets may well do so, but, coming
from that quarter, it is believed that their claims will not
gain much credence outside circles sympathetic to the Communists.
In any case, we have ample ammunition to counter Soviet propa-
ganda attacks shculd they occur; for the liberal character of
our occupational labor policy is a subject toward which we need
have no apologies but is one which we would do well to proclaim
from the housetops. We cen meet eny propaganda challenge.
C
(S)
DC/R
h
The
An NCo
1
9
5
ED
Rov--
19
12
0
592
f
Cat
X 100190

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
The other principal objection of this Office to Mr. Thorp'
memorandum concerns the advisability of raising the labor issue
with SCAP at this time. When last we did so, we received a
complete rebuff. Since then, a number of serious strikes and
strike threats have developed in which the very workers with
which we are concerned - those in the Japanese Government tele-
communications and railways - have assumed the most militant,
threatening posture of all. No one will dispute, I am sure,
that the next three months will witness a most critical period
in the occupation. As the stringent stabilization program goes
into effect we can expect intensive labor strife to develop,
backed by the Communists whose present primary objective is to
bring discredit to the US occupation. The wisdom of avoiding
any rocking of the boat during this period is apparent. From
all evidence at hand, it is obvious that SCAP will reject the
proposal set forth in the telegram apnended to Mr. Thorp's
memorandum.
I therefore, recommend that, for the present, this matter
not be taken up with Mr. Steelman or with Secretary Johnson
and that Mr. Thorp's telegram not be sent.
ohi3
vmh.
ma
FE:NA:MGreen:aw

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.91)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
7
PLAIN
Action: EUR
Control 12762
Info:
P
Rec'd June 30, 1949
SAH
11:50 a.m.
FE
OLI
CIA
POS
PROM : HoseoW
PA
DOR
TO
Seeresary of Stave
: 1651, June 30
oviet pross Jue so prinss half column Tokyo Tass
ropert srrwing urres: "Japanese public opinien" over
new er mes aparese reaction" against workers.
So-pal pe seclclict Party under pressure public
cpinton" cellea extracrdinary session Parliament
894.504/6-3049
sioe uss aber suestien but made number reservations
provire r ts rerely mane ver.
1 VEuPTy rrinus o Line Pyongyang Tass report
Jar paee Gov rnt delcaved railread workers strike
T 30
KCHLER
Tr
9
PLAIU
19
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.91)
DU SONT OF
Dc/e
AST ASIANFFA
7le
DATB: 7/13/49
TO
FE - Mr. Butterworth
J3 1949
Ofrice of
FROM
DEPAYTHND OF STATS
FATNN 
SUBJECT:
Labor Rights of Japonese Government Interprise Workers
I an glad to know that you gree that the legislation
sponsored by Cai in dealing with government workers labor
rights is defective in some respects. I believe that a cor-
rection of the mutter will h.ve a definitely beneficial effect
on the general labor situation in Japan. The timing of any
proach to SCai is a question prinarily within your competence
rather th n mine and I certainly do not re ose to press the
matter further at this time. I do hore that you will keep this
quertion in mind and consider further uction as soon as it seems
feasible.
Files
Central.
DU/R
894.504/7-1349
Se
8
JUL 1 5 1952
FILED
h
C
DC/R
SECRET
0
Anal Hw
工
E: DDCRT: VCA
Rev
X 100199
C3
Cnt

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
7
Action: EUR
PLAIN
Info:
P
SAM
Control 5287
FE
OLI
Rec'd July 15, 1949
CIA
7:01 a.m.
POS
PA
DCR
FROM:
Moscow
T0:
Hecretary of State
NO:
1756, July 15
PRAvDA Juiy rifteen prirts 2/3 column Washington Tass
despatch roportinr Panyushkin's PEc statement re
FacArthur'a repressive teasures against Japanese
Ebor.
894.504/7-154
Sent Department 1Y56. repeated Tokyo 31.
KIRK
BB:ME
1049 J
6
11
PLAIN
FILED
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST DE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
2

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY
July 25
FE - Mr. AlLigon
May we have an appropriate
reply for Mf. Rusk's signature?
Mr. Baldwin talked to Mr.
Rusk about t is problem last
week--along with other problems.
G:Brpmley Smith
FAR.EASTERN AFFA
25 1949
DIRECTOR

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.93)
DC/R
NATIONALCOMMITTEE
THURMAN ARNOÍD
Francis Biddle
PROF. EDWIN M. BORCHARD
Dr. HENRY SEIdEL CANBY
VAN WYCK BROOkS
MR. RUSK
170 Fifth Avenue, New York 10, New York
REV. ALLAn KNIgHT CHALMERS
WILLIAM HINRY CHAMBERLIN
JUL291949
ORegon 5-5990
JOHN M. COFFEE
MoRRiS L. Cook
Da. George C. Counts
ELMER DavIS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICERS
John Dos Passos
MELVYN DOUGLAS
PROF. EDWARD A. Ross
PEARL S. Buck
B. W. HuBscH
ARtHUR GaRpielD HaYS
SHERWOOD EDDY
THOMAS H. ELIOT
DOROTHY CANFIELD FISHER
Rev. JOHn HAYnes HolMES
Chairman, National Committes
Chairman, Beard of Direciors
LLOYD K. GARRISON
Frank P. Graham
RT. Rev. Edward L. Parsons
ROGER N. BALDWIN
MILTON BENTZ
Treasnter
Director
MorRis L. Eanst
Herbent M. Levy
Comnsel
WAlteR T. Pisher
Vice-Chairmen, Nasional Commissee
Assistans Director
Staf Coznsel
REV. HarrY EMerson PosdiCK
Dean CHristian Gauss
DEAN CHARLES W. GILKEY
Earl G. Harrison
MARVIN C. HARRISON
July 20, 1949.
ROBERT M. HUTCHINS
Dr. MORdECAI W. JOHnSON
SABURO KIDO
BENJAMIN H. KIZER
Hon. Dean Rusk
Dr. JOHN A. LAPP
Assistant Secretary of State
PROP. HAROLD D. LAssWELL
AGNES BRoWN LeACH
2lst & Virgi ia , W shington,D.c.
MAX LERNER
Robert Morss Lovett
PROP. ROBERT S. LYND
My dear Dean Rusk:
ARCHIBALD MACILBISH
JOHN P. MARQUAND
PROP. KIRTLEY P. MATHER
BILL MAULDIN
I have bcen iving some thought to the problem of re-
BIsHOP FranCis J. McCONNELL
vising the labor policy in Japan without ap pearing too
DR. AI.EXANDER MEIKLEJOHN
CHARLBS CLAYTON MORRISON
much to upset what has already been done, and I offer the
A. J. MUSTE
JAMES G. Pation
BISHOP G. BROMLEY OXNAM
folloing suggestions for what they may be worth.
894.504/
JENNINGS PeRRY
PROP. Max RadiN
The principle I think that could be followed is that
A. PHILIP RANDOLPH
WILL. RoGeRs, Jr.
of elaborating in detail the policies a lready laid d own,
ELMO RopER
JOhn NEVIN SAYRE
not reversing them. Indeed t he policies as to government
RT. RBv. WILLiAM SCARLETI
workers are, in a large part pretty sound, and not farre-
ARTHUR M. SCHLESINGER, JR.
JOSEPH SCHLOSSBERG
moved from the practices in most democracies.. My speci-
ODBLL SHEPARD
ROBERT E. SHERWOOD
fic suggestions in elaborating the policy would be:
RAbBi ABBa Hillel Silver
LILLIAN E. SMITH
RAYMOND SWING
1. To continue the ban on strikes by government e mployees
OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD
WILLIAM L. WHITK
in all cr tical industries, possibly not applying it to
L. HOLLINGSWORTH WOOD
DR. WIILIAM LINDSAY YOUNG
AUBREY WILLIAMS
as tobacco workors and p s sibly a few others. The principle
those over ment workers in the non-critical industries, suc
2
6
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
that strikes chould beforbidden where the pu lie's safety or
4
FRNEST ANGELL
S
PAUL. P. BRISSENDEN
convenience is involved is sound anyvay.
DOROTHY DUNBAR BROMLEY
DEAN HARRY CARMAN
RICHARD S. CHILDS
2. Collective bargainin in some form should mt be
Norman COusins
EDWARD J. ENNIS
denied any workers, public or pr vate. While it may be
MORRIS L. ERNST
fairly argued that collective barcaining agreements should
JOHN P. FINERTY
JAMBS LAWRENCE FIY
not supercede civil service provisions, a compromise can be
OSMOND K. FRABNKRL
WALTER FRANK
reached as it is in municipal transit s ervices in New York,
VARIAN FRY
Cleval and and elsowh re, under which collective bargaining
WALTER GELLHORN
ARTHUR GARPIBID HAYS
agreements are renched. lo contracts are signed, the a gree-
REV. JOHN HAYNES HOI.MES
QUINCY HOWE
ments bcing written into  civil service law. This is, in
B. W. HUEBSCH
DOROTHY KBNYON
ef ect, what hap ons with our own nost office e mployees whe re
CORLISS LAMONT
Congre  fixes the standards after conferencee between
FLORINA LASKER
PROP. EDUARD C. LINDEMAN
post office officials and union represontatives. Such a
B. F. MACLAURIN
HERBeRT NorTHRUP
procediure is now banned in Japan.
MERIYN S. PITZELE
ELMER RICE
FREDERICK E. ROBIN
It ra y be possible to separate in Japan those government
WHITNEY NORTH SEYMOUR
NORmAN THOMAS
departments suitable for collective bargeining from those
C. DICKBRMAN WILLIAMS
which are not, For instance with us, Congress recognizes the s
RAYMOND L. WIsE
TVA as an industry entorprise where collective bargainingis 
servicd organizations.
H
C

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
which we have handed to the Communists in Japan could be trans-
ferred to the democratic side if some such common sense adjustments
were made. I am reasonably confident that the Department of Labor
which is deeply interested in this pr blem would go along on this,
and if properly presented, SCAP might adopt suggestio s for study
along these lines, and c ome up with the same ideas as his own!
Sincerely yours,
RITB.T

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.95)
AUG 5194
In reply refer to
NA
Dear Mr. Baldwin:
Your letter of July 20 setting forth some of your
thoughts on the labor rights of J:p nese government
workers has been carefully considered in the Department.
894.504/7-2049
While there is unlikely to be any reformulation
of existing labor laws during the present period of
severe unrest following the mass layoffs of government
workers, it is reasonable to expect that labor legisla-
tion evolved to date will undergo further changes
thrcugh normal legisl tive process in the future. For
this reason it would seem helpful for General MacArthur's
Head uarters to have the benefit of your constructive
suggestions. I am therefore taking the liberty of hav-
ing the eubstance of your letter forwarded to the
Department of the army for tranemission to the appropri-
ate cuthorities in Hesdquarters. I am confident that
your views will be given the seme well-deserved atten-
tion in Tokyo as they are being given in Washington.
Sincerely yours,
Dean Rusk
Deputy Under Seoretary
*   ece
6
AUG.5 1949F 1.
X
f
Mr. Roger N. Baldwin, Director,
American Civil Liberties Union,
170 Fifth Avenue,
New York 1, New York.
C
S
we
FE
G
工
FE:NA:MGreen:db
8/3/49

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Noscow, July 26, 1949
RESTRI TED
T OF S
No. 413
Pubject:
Transmittal of translation ofo Sovieto
RECD
AUG 5
SOCIAL AFFAINS - ILS
ACTION
ITP ENC
The Ambassador has the honor to enclose a surmary
894.504/7-2649
trarslation of an article, "Uffonsive of Reaction Against
INFO
DCR
ts c nese Working Class", wihich was published in the
EUR ENC
Sovi  trade union orcan Trud on July z1. This article
FE ENC
is both a typ lcal sample and cood surmary of Soviet pro-
OLI
paganda on the oppression of Japanese workers allegedly
being carried out by Us occupation authorities in leaque
with the Yoshida Governmont, propacanda which has inten-
sified considerably in recent weeks to take advantage of
Japanese economic difficulties.
m
aA
as stated
ce: Tokyo
Original to Department
DEBos tor : Cmw
JG151949
FILED
FAP
RESTRICTED

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION A
- 11-
21st July, 1949
TRUD
CFFENSIVE OF REACTION AGAINST THE
JAPANESE WORKING CLASS
Dy Kh. Eidus
of a bitter class struggle. The American occupation authoritie
the reactionary government of Yoshida and Japanese monopoliats
are conducting a conoentrated offensive against the vital
interesta and trade union rights of the working people
The notorious American programme of
"economic stabilisation" was worked out for Japan in December
1948. The aim of this programme consisted in ensuring the
maximum profits from American capital which was beingeinvested
in Jppanese industry, that is,to say to increase the income
of the monopolies at the expense of the further lowering
of the standard of living of the working people.
"Stabilisation" began with the Japanese
Ministry of Labour distributing to the governors of the
Prefecturesa directive approved by MacArthur's staff on the
dissolution of those Japanese trade unions which were allegedly.
carrying on political activity. The Yoshida Government
with the approval of the American occupation authorities worked
out at the same time new reactionary bills further curtailing
the right of the workers and trade unions.
The new laws which in character recall
the American Taft-Hartley anti-workers! law in essence forbida
strikes not only in public but also in private undertakings.
The new anti-worker legislation is
the direct result of the Aherican programme of the "economic
stabilisation" of Japan.
The American programme has already
led to. a re w increase in taxation, a rise in prices, a lowering
of wages and the growth of unemployment.
The class strugglc in Japan assumes
every day yet sharper features. The polise more and more
frequently attack strikers, meetings and demonstrations of the
working people, crudely violating their rights and using physical
force.
The police terror is primarily directed
against the Japanese Comnunist Party which is the only political
Party in Japan struggling for genuine democracy and the
demilitarisation of Japan, for its freedom and independence against
reaction and
fascism, against the enslavement of the country
by American monopolistic capital. The constant growth of
the influence of the Japanese Communist Party is evoking the
wrath of the Ame rican/Japanese reactionarics.
On the 4th July this year MacArthur
made a special statement directed against Communism. He ended
his statement with the question: "How long will this movement
enjoy the protection of the law?", thereby hinting at the
desirability of declaring the Communist Party illegal. The
Japanese Minister without Portfolio, Higan, replied with the
statement that the government was preparing appropriate measures.
The attempts of the servants of the
American monopolists are doomed to failure. Even the reactionary
newspaper "Nippon Times" was recently compelled to admit-with:
contrition that a big movement to the left had taken place in:
the Japanese trade unions.
These changes are the result of the
growing class consciousness of the working people who in their
own experience have savoured the delights of American "democracy".

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.96)
U 1949
1
SECTION A
- 12 -
21st July, 1949
TRUD(Contd.)
The grandiose 1st May demunstratiens, the wide strike,moyement,
the mass protests of workers, students and representatives of
the intelligentsia against the campaign of
Japanese-
American reaction on the denocratic rights of the working people
and the growth of the influence f the Communis t Party all
bear witnoss to the fact that all the progressive strata
of society are rallying around the working class which is
conducting a strug lo fer the vital rights of the working people
and for a demccratic indepondent Japan. The forces of the
Japanese demacratic camr are incrcasing and growing stronger
with every day.
(2 cols.)(Summary)
TRUD 21.7.49.
SCME PAPERS
STATEMENT CF THE HEAD CF THE RUSSIAN
ORTHODOX MISSION IN SECUL THE AROPIMANDRITE
PCLIK.RP
FINGYANG, 19th July, TASS.  For a long
time in Southern Koren the mericnns and their henchmen the
Korean reactionarics have beon crnducting a strucl for gaining
contrcl of the Russian Orthedex Mission in Seoul,  attempting
to remove it frum the jurisdiction ef the Moscow atriarchate.
Not having an opportunity to do this by any lege means the
authorities of suuthern Kerea have illegally exlud by
pelice methods from southern Kerea the Archimanarite Polikarp
who refused to acknowledgo any  ther jurisdietien and hand over
the mission to the henchmen  f the Kerean reacticnarics.
At the beginning f July the rchimandrite
Polikarp arrived in Pingyang. "I and my mother", said the
Archimandrite Iolikarr, "were arrosted en the 13th December
and remained under arrost until the 23rg December by the local
police and from the 23rd to 29th December in the prison of
Kemukdan.
The pulice prisons are a row  f stinking
cages like animal cages. On the woden floor sit oxhausted
tortured peonle. For the mest pant they are young workors, members
of tho intelliguntsin and stulent youth.
The pris oners
were beaten with thick straps, sticks and ss n.Here I
lonrned of the use of vari us tortures: the pouring of water
into the nose and m uth, torture by clectric currant, hanging
up by the hands and thers.
For the first four days I could
neither cat nor sluep, so inhnman and cruel was everything around me.
Three times a day badly co ld c rn was provided in small wooden
boxes.
When I loft prison I did not go to Church
and lived exclusively ncharity.
on the 1 th June, 1949, the rolice came
to me and led me away for questiching. They stated that the
matter weuld not takem re than an hour. And so and I and my
mother went as we were. The police questioned us and stated
that they had learned that we had been admitted to Soviet citizenship
in January 1949. /Wo were told thet Soviet citizenship is
allegedly nly given to those peeple who give services to the
Sovict government in the way of espionage.Consequently they
demanded that we inf rm them who were the intermeliaries and
what services we had.performed. I stated that this was entirely
at variance
with the truth.
The questioning oontinued

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
Offic
FAR EASTERN AFF
TO
FE - Mr. Weigle
1949
pel
SEP 2 0 1949
FROM :
IIS - Mr. Sullivan
m
ILO Convention on Freedom of AssociaE
SUBJECT:
Re your note:
both Mr. Futterworth and Ir. Allison are familiar
with the general purpose of this ILo Convention, its
applicability (rticles 2-4 especially) to the problem
of public workers in Japan having been called to their
attention during the dispute over the rights of those
workers.
 cood case can be made that certain provisions
Files
Central
LC/R
of both the Japanese lational Public Service Law and
the Public Corporations Labor Negotiations Law
Dot t B Rt t
conflict with article 2 of this new ILo Convention,
though some articles of the Public Service Law
especially are in apparent contradiction concerning
2
the matter of being allowed to join associations of
their own choosing.
A new though related convention entitled "The
500 c 115
p lication of the Principles of the Right to Organize
and to argain Collectively" was passed at the ILo
conference in Geneva this past summer. Article 6
states "This Convention does not deal with the position
of public servants engaged in the administration of the
1549
State, nor shall it be construed as prejudicing their
rights or status in any way." This exemption of "publid
servants engaged in the administration of the state" is,
of course, a recognition of the special status of such
employees, especially in regard to rights of collective
bargaining, and it is anticipated that a special Con-
vention dealing with their organizational rights will
be attempted at some future date.
For your background information the chief
quarrel of the Department with SCAP over the Publio
Service Legislation has concerned the inclusion of
"enterprise employees" of the government under the
8
provisions of such laws
CS/H
9
JUL 1 5 1952
DO/R
FILED
ITP:ILS:PBSullivan:apg
AnalHw
BLD
CONFIDENTIAL
X 100196

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.97)
WUB
81sT CONGRESS
SENATE
ExECUTiVE
18t Session
S
CONVENTION CONCERNING FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION
AND PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE
MESSAGE
FROM
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
TRANSMITTING
THE CONVENTION (NO. 87) CONCERNING FREEDOM OF ASSOCI-
ATION AND PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE, ADOPTED
BY THE INTERNATIONAL LABOR CONFERENCE AT ITS THIRTY-
FIRST SESSION, HELD AT SAN FRANCISCO JUNE 17 TO JULY 10,
1948
August 27, 1949.-Couvention was read the first time and the injunction of
secrecy was removed therefrom. The convention, the President's message of
transmittal, the report by the Secretary of State, and a copy of a letter from the
Secretary of Labor with respect to the convention, were referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations and ordered to be printed for the use of the Senate
THE WHitE House, August 27, 1949.
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to
ratification, I transmit herewith an authentic text of the convention
(No. 87) concerning freedom of association and protection of the
right to organize, adopted by the International Labor Conference at
its thirty-first session, held at San Francisco, June 17 to July 10, 1948.
I transmit also for the information of the Senate the report of the
Secretary of State regarding this convention, together with a copy of
a letter addressed by the Secretary of Labor to the Secretary of State
with respect to the convention.
HARRY S. TRUMAN.
(Enclosures: (1) Report by the Secretary of State, (2) copy of
letter from the Secretary of Labor, (3) authentie text of convention
(No. 87) concerning freedom of association and protection of the
right to organize.)
S5318 49 Ex. s

=== Page 304 === (confidence 1.00)
2
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, August 26, 1949.
The PRESIDENT,
The White House:
Under article 19 of the Constitution of the International Labor Or-
ganization, which deals with the nature of the obligations of members
with regard to the effectuation of conventions and recommendations
adopted by the International Labor Conference, members which are
federal states undertake to place or make effective arrangements for
placing each such convention or recommendation within a given
period before the proper authority or authorities for the enactment of
legislation or other action.
In accordance with the above-mentioned obligations of the Govern-
ment of the United States of America as a member of the International
Labor Organization, the undersigned, the Secretary of State, has
the bonor to lay before the President, with a view to its transmission
to the Senate to receive the advice and consent of that body to
ratification, if his judgment approve thereof, an authentic text of
the convention (No. 87) concerning freedom of association and
protection of the right to organize, adopted by the International
Labor Conference at its thirty-first session, held at San Francisco,
June 17 to July 10, 1948.
Ratification of this convention by the United States is recommended
in a letter dated June 30, 1949, from the Secretary of Labor to the
Secretary of State. That letter, a copy of which is enclosed, expresses
the coordinated view of the interested agencies and departments of
the executive branch of this Government, namely, the Department of
State, the Department of Justice, the Department of the Interior,
the Department of the Navy, the Federal Security Ageney, and the
Department of Labor. That letter expresses the view, among others,
that the subject matter of the convention is appropriate under our
constitutional system for Federal action within the meaning of article
19, paragraph 7 (a), of the Constitution of the International Labor
Organization, the relevant provisions of which are quoted in that
communication.
The view is also expressed in the above-mentioned letter that no
new Federal legislation or revision of existing Federal law is necessary
to effect compliance by the United States with the terms of the con-
vention. The convention affirms the guaranties provided under the
first, fifth, tenth, and fourteenth amendments to the Constitution of
the United States. The delineation of appropriate spheres of Federal
and State authority under our Constitution is not, of course, affected
by anything in the convention.
The subject matter of the convention is of fundamental significance
in the field of international regulation of trade-unions because it
guarantees, to both workers and employers alike, the basic right of
freedom to establish and to join organizations of their own choosing.
The question of freedom of association and industrial relations was
the subject of resolutions by the Economic and Social Council of the
United Nations at its fourth and fifth sessions and by the General
Assembly of the United Nations at its second session. The Secretary
of Labor states in his letter referred to above that he considers the
convention to be of such importance that he plans to transmit it to
he governors of the States of the United States for their information.

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE
3
The substantive provisions of the convention are embodied in the
first 11 of the 21 articles thereof. The first 10 articles constitute part
1, entitled "Freedom of Association." Article 11 constitutes part II,
entitled "Protection of the Right to Organize."
Articles 12 and 13 of the convention, which constitute part IHI, en-
titled "Miscellaneous Provisions." relate to application of the conven-
tion to Territories. In this connection attention is invited to the
relevant provisions of article 35 of the Constitution of the International
Labor Organization, quoted in the enclosed letter from the Secretary
of Labor, and the recommendation by the interested agencies and
departments that the ratification of the convention by the United
States should be applied specifically to Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico,
the Virgin Islands, Guam. American Samoa, and the Territory of the
Pacific Islands, of which the United States is the administering au-
thority under the trusteeship agreement which entered into force
July 18, 1947 (61 Stat., pt. 3, 3301). That letter also sets forth the
coordinated view that no new Federal legislation for those Territories
or revision of existing law for such Territories is necessary to effect
compliance therein by the United States with the provisions of the
convention.
It is contemplated that upon ratification of the convention by the
United States discussions will be instituted with the Government of
the United Kingdom with respect to the matter of applying the con-
vention to Canton and Enderbury Islands in the South Pacific Ocean.
Those islands are under the joint administration of the Government of
the United States of America and the Government of the United
Kingdom pursuant to an agreement between the two Governments
effected by an exchange of notes signed April 6, 1939 (53 Stat. 2219).
Provisions regarding ratification of the convention, its entry into
force, denunciation, registration, and revision are contained in part
1V, entitled "Final Provisions," and comprising articles 14 to 21,
inclusive.
Respectfully submitted.
Dean Acheson.
Enclosures: (1) Authentic text of convention (No. 87) concerning
freedom of association and protection of the right to organize, (2)
copy of letter dated June 30, 1949, from the Secretary of Labor,
INTERNATIONAL LABOR CONFERENCE
CONVENTION (No. 87) CONCERNING FREEDOM OF ASSO-
CIATION AND PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO OR-
GANISE.
The General Conference of the International Labour Organisation,
Having been convened at San Francisco by the Governing
Body of the International Labour Office, and having met in its
Thirty-first Session on 17 June 1948;
Having decided to adopt, in the form of a Convention, certain
proposals concerning freedom of association and protection of the
right to organise, which is the seventh item on the agenda of the
session;
Considering that the Preamble to the Constituti
ternational Labour Organisation declares "recognition or

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
4
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE
principle of freedom of association" to be a means of improving
conditions of labour and of establishing peace;
Considering that the Declaration of Philadelphia reaffirms
that "freedom of expression and of association are essential to
sustained progress";
Considering that the International Labour Conference, at its
Thirtieth Session, unanimously adopted the principles which
should form the basis for international regulation;
Considering that the General Assembly of the Únited Nations,
at its Second Session, endorsed these principles and requested the
International Labour Organisation to continue every effort in
order that it may be possible to adopt one or several international
Conventions;
adopts this ninth day of July of the year one thousand nine hundred
and forty-eight the following Convention, which may be cited as
the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise
Convention, 1948:
PART I. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION
ARTICLE 1
Each Member of the International Labour Organisation for which
this Convention is in force undertakes to give effect to the following
provisions.
ARTICLE 2
Workers and employers, without distinction whatsoever, shall have
the right to establish and, subject only to the rules of the organisation
concerned, to join organisations of their own choosing without pre-
vious authorisation.
ARTICLE 3
1. Workers' and employers' organisations shall have the right to
draw up their constitutions and rules, to elect their representatives
in full freedom, to organise their administration and activities and
to formulate their programmes.
2. The public authorities shall refrain from any interference which
would restrict this right or impede the lawful exercise thereof.
ARTICLE 4
Workers' and employers' organisations shall not be liable to be
dissolved or suspended by administrative authority.
ARTICLE 5
Workers' and employers' organisations shall have the right to
establish and join federations and confederations and any such organi-
sation, federation or confederation shall have the right to affiliate
with international organisations of workers and employers.
ARTICLE 6
The provisions of Articles 2, 3 and 4 hereof apply to federations and
confederations of workers' and employers' organisations.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE
5
ARTICLE 7
The acquisition of legal personality by workers' and employers'
organisations, federations and confederations shall not be made subject
to conditions of such a character as to restrict the application of the
provisions of Articles 2, 3 and 4 hereof.
ARTICLE 8
1. In exercising the rights provided for in this Convention workers
and employers and their respective organisations, like other persons
or organised collectivities, shall respect the law of the land.
2. The law of the land shall not be such as to impair, nor shall it be
so applied as to impair, the guarantees provided for in this Convention.
ARTICLE 9
1. The extent to which the guarantees provided for in this Conven-
tion shall apply to the armed forces and the police shall be determined
by national laws or regulations.
2. In accordance with the principle set forth in paragraph 8 of
Article 19 of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisa-
tion the ratification of this Convention by any Member shall not be
deemed to affect any existing law, award, custom or agreement in virtue
of which members of the armed forces or the police enjoy any right
guaranteed by this Convention.
ARTICLE 10
In this Convention the term "organisation" means any organisation
of workers or of employers for furthering and defending the interests
of workers or of employers.
PART II. PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO ORGANISE
ARTICLE 11
Each Member of the International Labour Organisation for which
this Convention is in force undertakes to take all necessary and appro-
priate measures to ensure that workers and employers may exercise
freely the right to organise.
PART III. MiscELLAnEOuS PRoViSionS
ARTICLE 12
1. In respect of the territories referred to in Article 35 of the Con-
stitution of the International Labour Organisation as amended by the
Constitution of the International Labour Organisation Instrument of
Amendment, 1946, other than the territories referred to in paragraphs
4 and 5 of the said Article as so amended, each Member of the Organm
tion which ratifies this Convention shall communicate to the Director
General of the International Labour Office with or as soon as possible
after its ratification a declaration stating—
970
(a) the territories in respect of which it undertakes that the
provisions of the Convention shall be applied without modifice
tion;

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
6
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE
(b) the territories in respect of which it undertakes that the
provisions of the Convention shall be applied subject to modifica-
tions, together with details of the said modifications;
(c) the territories in respect of which the Convention is inap-
plicable and in such cases the grounds on which it is inapplicable;
(d) the territories in respect of which it reserves its decision.
2. The undertakings referred to in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of
paragraph 1 of this Article shall be deemed to be an integral part of
the ratification and shall have the force of ratification.
3. Any Member may at any time by a subsequent declaration cancel
in whole or in part any reservations made in its original declaration
in virtue of subparagraphs (b), (c) or (d) of paragraph 1 of this Article.
4. Any Member may, at any time at which this Convention is
subject to denunciation in accordance with the provisions of Article
16, communicate to the Director-General a declaration modifying in
any other respect the terms of any former declaration and stating the
present position in respect of such territories as it may specify.
ARTICLE 13
1. Where the subject matter of this Convention is within the self-
governing powers of any non-metropolitan territory, the Member
responsible for the international relations of that territory may, in
agreement with the government of the territory, communicate to the
Director-General of the' International Labour Office a declaration
accepting on behalf of the territory the obligations of this Convention.
2. A declaration accepting the obligations of this Convention may
be communicated to the Director-General of the International Labour
Office
(a) by two or more Members of the Organisation in respect of
any territory which is under their joint authority; or
(b) by any international authority responsible for the admin-
istration of any territory, in virtue of the Charter of the United
Nations or otherwise, in respect of any such territory.
3. Declarations communicated to the Director-General of the
International Labour Office in accordance with the preceding para-
graphs of this Article shall indicate whether the provisions of the
Convention will be applied in the territory concerned without modi-
fication or subject to modifications; when the declaration indicates
that the provisions of the Convention will be applied subject to
modifications it shall give details of the said modifications.
4. The Member, Members or international authority concerned
may at any time by a subsequent declaration renounce in whole or in
part the right to have recourse to any modification indicated in any
former declaration.
5. The Member, Members or international authority concerned
may, at any time at which this Convention is subject to denunciation
in accordance with the provisions of Article 16, communicate to the
Director-General of the International Labour Office a declaration
modifying in any other respect the terms of any former declaration
and stating the present position in respect of the application of the
Convention.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
7
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE
PaRT IV. FINAL PROVISiONS
ARTICLE 14
The formal ratifications of this Convention shall be communicated
to the Director-General of the International Labour Office for regis-
tration.
ARTICLE 15
1. This Convention shall be binding only upon those Members of
the International Labour Organisation whose ratifications have been
registered with the Director-General.
2. It shall come into foree twelve months after the date on which
the ratifications of two Members have been registered with the
Director-General.
3. Thereafter, this Convention shall come into foree for any
Member twelve months after the date on which its ratification has
been registered.
ARTICLE 16
1. A Member which has ratified this Convention may denounce
it after the expiration of ten years from the date on which the Con-
vention first comes into foree, by an act comnunicated to the Direc-
tor-General of the International Labour Office for registration. Such
denunciation shall not take effect until one year after the date on
which it is registered.
2. Each Member which has ratified this Convention and which
does not, within the year following the expiration of the period of
ten years mentioned in the preceding paragraph, exercise the right
of denunciation provided for in this Article, will be bound for another
period of ten years and, thereafter, may denounce this Convention
at the expiration of each period of ten years under the terms provided
for in this Article.
ARTICLE 17
1. The Director-General of the International Labour Office shall
notify all Members of the International Iabour Organisation of the
registration of all ratifications, declarations and denunciations
communicated to him by the Members of the Organisation.
2. When notifying the Members of the Organisation of the registra-
tion of the second ratification communicated to him, the Director-
General shall draw the attention of the Members of the Organisation
to the date upon which the Convention will come into force.
ARTICLE 18
The Director-Gencral of the International Labour Office shall
communicate to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for
registration in accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the
United Nations full particulars of all ratifications, declarations and
acts of denunciation registered by him in accordance with the pro-
visions of the preceding Articles.
 hetgobe (T

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.98)
8
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE
ARTICLE 19
At the expiration of each period of ten years after the coming into
force of this Convention, the Governing Body of the International
Labour Office shall present to the General Conference a report on the
working of this Convention and shall consider the desirability of
placing on the agenda of the Conference the question of its revision
in whole or in part.
ARTICLE 20
1. Should the Conference adopt a new Convention revising this
Convention in whole or in part, then. unless the new Convention
otherwise provides,
(a) the ratification by a Member of the new revising Conven-
tion shall ipso jure involve the immediate denunciation of this
Convention, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 16 above,
if and when the new revising Convention shall have come into
force;
(b) as from the date when the new revising Convention comes
into force this Convention shall cease to be open to ratification
by the Members.
2. This Convention shall in any case remain in foree in its actual
form and content for those Members which have ratified it but have
not ratified the revising Convention.
ARTICLE 21
The English and French versions of the text of this Convention are
equally authoritative.
The foregoing is the authentic text of the Convention duly adopted
by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation
during its Thirty-first Session which was held at San Francisco and
declared closed the tenth day of July 1948.
In faith whereof we have appended our signatures this thirty-first
day of August 1948.
The President of the Conference,
JUStin GodaRT.
The Director-General of the International Labour Office,
EDwaRd PHeLAN.
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR,
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY,
Washington, June 30, 1949.
The honorable the SECRETARY OF STATE,
Washington, D. C.
My DeAn M. Secrety: This letter will express to you the co-
ordinated view of the interested agencies and departments of the
executive branch with respect to the convention concerning freedom
of association and protection of the right to organize (convention No.
87), adopted at the thirty-first session of the International Labor

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE
9
Conference at San Francisco, Calif., from June 17 to July 10, 1948.
The Department of State, the Department of Justice, the Department
of Interior, the Department of the Navy, the Federal Security Agency,
and the Department of Labor have considered this matter. Their
position. together with appropriate references to the constitution, as
amended, of the International Labor Organization, is as follows:
Article 19, paragraph 7, of the constitution relates to the obliga-
tions of federal states relative to conventions adopted by the Inter-
national Labor Organization. Article 19, paragraph 7 (a), provides:
in respect of Conventions and Recommendations which the federal Government
regards as appropriate under its constitutional system for federal action, the
obligations of the federal State shall be the same as those of Members which are
not federal States.
It is our view that the subject matter of this convention is appro-
priate under our constitutional system for federal action within the
meaning of article 19. paragraph 7 (a).
Article 19. paragraph 5, of the constitution, which relates to the
obligations of members which are not federal states with respect to
conventions adopted by the International Labor Organization,
provides, in part:
5. In the case of a Convention--
(a) the Convention will be communicated to all Members for ratification.
(b) each of the Members undertakes that it will, within the period of one
year at most from the closing of the session of the Conference, or if it is
impossible owing to exceptional circumstances to do so within the period
of one year, then at the earliest practicable moment and in no case later
than eighteen months from the closing of the session of the Conference, bring
the Convention before the authority or authorities within whose competence
the matter lies, for the enactment of legislation or other action.
It is our view that this convention should be ratified by the United
States, and we recommend that the President of the United States
transmit this convention to the Senate of the United States with a
request for the advice and consent of the Senate to its ratification.
It is also our view that no new Federal legislation or revision of exist-
ing Federal law is necessary to effect compliance by the United States
with the terms of the convention.
Article 35 of the constitution relates to the obligations of members
relative to conventions adopted by the International Labor Organiza-
tion with respect to "non-metropolitan territories for whose interna-
tional relations they are responsible." Paragraph 1 of article 35
provides:
The Members undertake that Conventions which they have ratified in accordance
with the provisions of this Constitution shall be applied to the non-metropolitan
territories for whose international relations they are responsible, including any
trust territories for which they are the administering authority, except where
the subject matter of the Convention is within the self-governing powers of the
territory or the Convention is inapplicable owing to local conditions or subject
to such modifications as may be necessary to adapt the Convention to local
conditions.
Paragraph 2 of article 35 relates to reporting relative to the action
of a member pursuant to pargraph 1 of article 35; paragraph 3, per-
mits modification "from time to time" of action taken pursuant to
paragraph 1; paragraph 4 relates to the obligations of a member
under the exception provided in paragraph 1 "where the subject

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.99)
10
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE
matter of the Convention is within the self-governing powers of the
territory."Paragraph 5 provides:
A declaration accepting the obligations of any Convention may be communicated
to the Director-General of the International Labour Office—
(a) by two or more Members of the Organisation in respect of any terri-
tory which is under their joint authority; or
(b) by any international authority responsible for the administration of
any territory, in virtue of the Charter of the United Nations or otherwise,
in respect of any such territory.
Paragraphs 6 and 7 relate to reporting relative to, and modification
"from time to time" with respect to, action taken pursuant to para-
graphs 4 and 5. Paragraph 8 provides reporting obligations with
respect to territories to which paragraphs 4 and 5 relate, "if the
obligations of a Convention are not accepted on behalf of" such
territories.
We have assumed for the purpose of our deliberations that Alaska,
Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and
the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands are the "non-metropolitan
territories for whose international relations [the United States is]
responsible," within the meaning of article 35, paragraph 1. It is
our view that ratification by the United States should be rendered
applicable specifically to all of these nonmetropolitan Territories.
It is also our view that no new Federal legislation for such Territories
or revision of existing law for such Territories is necessary to effect
compliance by the United States with the terms of the convention in
such nonmetropolitan Territories.
It is our view that paragraphs 5, 6, 7, and 8 are applicable to Canton
Island and that it may, therefore, be appropriate for the United States
to institute discussion with the United Kingdom relative to joint
action pursuant to those provisions.
In view of the importance of the convention concerning freedom
of association and protection of the right to organize (convention No.
87), it is my plan to transmit the convention to the governors of the
States of the United States for their information and to indicate to
them that it has been transmitted to the Senate of the United States
with the recommendation that it be ratified.
Yours very truly,
MAURICE J. TOBIN,
Secretary of Labor.

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FORBEN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
894.504/9.89
for Japan
Tokyo, September 19,.1049.
File
No. 650
no aclir reguesd
REC 'D
SEPT 26
RESTRICTED (FCR DEPARTMENT USE OHLY)
ACTION
FE ENC
IFO
ub
Trunemittin Jp of Headquar ters u inary of
DCR
Lubor Sonlitions in Fupen
1TP
OLI
The Acting rolit oel A'viscr hes the honor to enclose
herewitn five copies of e umnery of the current labor
situetion in Japan prepered by the Labor Divislon of the
Ce: ic nd Jeientiric Section, Generel Headquerters,
Files
Central
Jupreme Jo..mander for tle Allied Fowers, for presentation
R
to Unlr Secr tary of the Ary Tracy S. VooRils, as a
part of his cenerol briefing.
The Depurt ent's cttention is invited to the follow-
ing sul ient points contained in the summary.
1. There is a wi ien in clesvege between pro-Communist
and enti-Comaurist forces in orgenized labor, with the for-
mer losing strensth and the latter attempting to gain or
consolidete le lership in individuel unions and in organized
labor as e wiole
2: pane se labor in ceneral hes adapted itself to
the strin nt measures in erent in the application of the
Econonie Strbilizeti rrora tnd the 1949 Nationel Budg-
et. The trade unious have accepted reduetions in living
stenderas ent employment with rotest but without wide-
spreed resort to forcerul means of opposition.
3. Progress as bein mede in developing the trade-
union orgenizationel end operetionel patterns desired,
but much re neins to be done if the equel dangers of govern-
ment and employer don inetion on tne one hand and Communist
dominetion on tne Sther hand are to be avoided.
4. Although reported unemployment wes only 440,000
as of May, the Tapanese tendency in time of economic stress
Is to spriad aveiiable work among the total labor force,
resulting in reduction in the aggregate income of the fami
.CS/M
ly unit and in "dilution" of employment rather than in o-
vert unemploymeat. Despite this tendenoy, unless private
enterprises
UL 141952
FILDD
RESTRICTED (FOR DEPARTLENT USE ONLY)
BETURN TO DO/B PILE WITEN 14 DAYS, WITE A MOTATON 

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 650,
September 19, 1949.
-2-
enterprises develop an expanding labor demand, a sorios
increase in overt unemployment is indicated. The Govern-
ment's present unemployment counter-measures are desinee
primarily to cushion the transition from uneconomio to e-
conomic enterprises, so that protracted unemployment of.
large numbers would require substantial additional mea
ures.
5. While weges have registered a net increase of
only 4.3 per cent during the first helf of 1949, the cost
of living has risen 7 6 per cent. Tais decline in real
wages is particularly significant since real wages are
only C9 per cent of prewer levels. (In July wages d
creesed 1 per cent and cost of living increased 1 per.
cent.)
The Labor Division's conclusions relete to the prog
ress mede to date toward the Occupetion's major objeor
tives in the field of lebor. On the basis of the Divi
sion's report en additional conclusion would appear to
merit stress: that unless the rising anti-Jommunist leed-
ership is able to assert effestive leedership and at least
pertially successful action towarl relievin: economic pres-
sure on workers, the dangers of government and employer
domination on the one hani and of Co unist attraotion on
the other hand are sotive dangers.
Enclosure.
Five copies of Headquarters
Suamary of Labor Conditions in
Japan
S 560
BCoolidge:gmd
RESTRICTED (FOR DEPART.ENT USE ONLY)

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
September 19, 1949, from 
of-the United States Politleal
to Japan, Tokyo on the subjeot
mitting Copies of HeadquartersSu
of Labor Conditions in Japan"
Economic and Scientifio Section
Labor Division
SUMMARY OF CURRENT LABOR SITUAT ION - LABOR DIVISION - 15 AugUSt 1949
Labor Relations
The struggle between the pro-Communist and anti-Communist groups for
control of the labor movement has resulted sinoe mid-June in a loss of-
strength by the Communists and has caused a definite cleatage within the
labor movemont. The intent and tactics of the Communists have fallen into
disfavor with the union leaders and rank and file members alike
The uniens have registered opposition in various forms to the rational-
ization of governmental and private industry but have become reconoiled to
the reductions in personnel. Within recent months unions have even been
reluctant to use their limited strike weapons. The use of violence tactics
advocated by the Communists has fallen into disrepute and the unions are
turning to the use of recognized trade unipn practices.
To aid in the development of a trade union movement to counteraot
undesirable trends, new legislation was pramulgated to insure rank and
file authority within the unions. Initial opposition was enoountered in
the unions inoe the application of the laws. Thrugh promulgation f enfordement
ordinance, combined with an educational program, opposition to the laws
has lessened and more major unions are complying.
Emphasis is being placed on negotiations of complete oollective
bargaining agreements with education heing directed at rank and file union
leaders and management representatives.
Exployment and Unemployment Situation
At present there is no evidence of large scale unemployment in Japan.
The monthly labor force survey for May showed 440,no0 unemployed of a total
work force of 38,300,000. Unless private industry expands, partioularly
the export industry, an increase in unemployment may assume more serious.
proportions within the next few months.
The average weekly number of persons receiving unemployment benéfits
rose from 28,700 in January to 92,100 in June.
The Japanese Government has planned a program to provide temporary
relief for unemployed workers during the period of transfer from unessential
to essential industries. This program includes the use of emergency work
relief projeots, the unemployment insurance fund and the use of the publio
employment security offices. If the unemployment problem becames serious,
additional measures would be necessary. The present program will only
temporarily relieve unemployment problems. The only adequate answer is a
healthy economy of inoreasing rates of production and greatly expanding
export trade.
Labor Standards Law
The Labor Standards Bureau is faced with an 18% decrease in the number
of inspectors and a 30% decrease of all other personnel which may affeot
the inspection program. During the first six months of this year, the
average number of inspections per month has inereased markedly. This
number of inspections may not be continued when the reduotion in force
takes place in August. Pressure for revision of the Labor Standards Law
has lessened oonsiderably within the last few months, This may be:
attributable to the faot that the Japanese Government has been completely

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
absorbed in the more pressing problem of unemployment and the diamissal
of Government employees.
Wages
Observation of wage movements for the first six months of 1949
indicates that the indreot controls stated in the "3 principkes" have
.sucoeeded in deoelerating the upward movement of wages. This has been
oharacterized by irregular rises and drops in average wages with a net
increase of 4.3% between January and June.. This inorease is in startling
contrast to the increases of 51%, 76% and 140% during the seme periods,
January to June; respectively 1948, 1947 and 1946. Howëvar, wberees post
of living increased less than half as rapidly (20% as wages (s1%) during
the comparable period of l948, living cost: rose almost.twice as fast. (7.6%)
as wages (4.3%) during the first half: of 1949.
The tightening. of financial credits and the curtailment of subsidies
have created a situation where employers are failing to pay wages in full.
As. of June 3C 1949, approximately ¥745,000,000 was still owing to workers
for baok wages.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.99)
Economio and Scientific Section
Labor Division
REPORT OF LABOR DIVISION, ECONOMIC & SC IENTIFIC SECTION, GHQ, SCAP
CURRENT SITUATION IN THE FIELD OF LABOR
15 August 1949
OBJECT IVES
In the field of labor the Occupation was primarily concerned with.
four major objeotives: the oreation of conditions under which a free and
democratic labor movement could develop, the encouragement and development
of sound colleotive bargaining and labor relations, the oreation or
extension of democratio labor legislation and administrative agenoies, and
the effective use of Japan's manpower resources.
The first of these aims was fully accomplished during the first year
and substantial progress was made in achieving the other ohjeotives during
the second year. By the end of the third year of the Occupation, Japan had
ten basic labor laws, comprising a system meeting international standards
of labor legislation, and its first Ministry of Labor, providing integrated
machinery for the administration of labor affairs.
The rapid growth of Japanese labor unions and the introduotion of
colleotive bargaining in a nation where it had been virtually nonexistant,
oreated an acute need for worker and employer education. Primary objectives
of SCAP and the Japanese Government programs have been:
1. To provide union officials and rank and file members with an under-
standing of trade union aims and practices in democratic countries;
2. To encourage the adoption of democratic features in union consti-
tutions and other guarantees of internal democraoy in unions;
3. To encourage bonafide bargaining and the adoption of written con-
tracts which promote peaceful settlement of disputes; and
4. To discourage undemocratic tendencies or control of unions by out-
side groups.
POL IT ICAL INFLUENCES IN LABOR UNIONS
The most significent aspect of the present day lahor movement in Japan
is a defi.rite re-alignment between the anti-Communist and the pro-Communist
forces and a loss of strength by the Communists in the labor movement. The
intent of the Communists, despite their seemingly plausible arguments, to
use the labor movement as a step toward political power, is now generally
recognized by union leaders and rank and file members alike. This clari-
fication of Communist methods is resulting in a widening cleavage between
the two sides, a shifting of union forces, and a definite loss of support
by the Communists.
There is much ovidence of this loss dating from mid-June when the
cancellation by ESS/LAB of the Communist-inspired railway strike.in the
Tokyo-Yokohama area orystalized Communist policies, aims'and methods in
the minds of the workers and general' public. Sinoe that time, the anti-
Communist elment's in the Government Railway Workers Union;.known as the
Demopratization League (Mindo) have defeated the Communist's and are well
on their way toward undisputed control of the union. Anti-Communist foroes
in the eleotrical equipment, metal, steel and shipbuilding unions, are
openly contesting the Cammunists for control of existing unions or are
organizing opposition unions.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
The most significant development is still in the formative stage.
Under the leadership of Takeo Muto, President of the Coal Miners Unions
Etsuo Kato, Prèsident of the Railway Workers Union; Totaro Fujita,
President of the Private Railway Workers Union; Yukitaka Haraguohi,
President of the Metal Miners Union; Shohzaburo Araki, President of the
Teachers' Union; Susumu Fujita, President of All-Japan Eleotrioal
Workers Union; those progressive, anti-Communist elements represented
in National Congress of Industrial Unions, Japan Faderation of Trade
Unions, and the large independent group of national unions are now in the
process of organizing a committee whioh will guide the formation of a new
federation of industrial organizations. Only unions that are committed
to democratic principles and which doclare themselves speoifioally in
opposition to the World Federation of Trade Unions will be admitted. The
political complexion of this group will probably be similar to the labor
party of Great Britain.
1. Sanbetsu (National Congress of Industrial Unions). . 1,150,000
This includes the organizations which have reoently
undertakon to form a new Sanbetsu (Shin-Sanbetsu)
whose membership is estimated at about 300,000. It
is not clear at presont whether this group will remain
within Sanbotsu or separate from it.
2. Sodomei (Japan Federation of Trade Unions) . . . . . 900,000
3.
Independents
.2,435,000
This group includes many of tho most important labor
organizations in Japan, such as Tanro (Coal Miners
Union) 432,O00; Kokotetsu (National Railway Workers
Union) 500,000; Shitetsu SoRengo (Private Railway
Workers Union) 120,O00; Kinscku Kozan (Metal Miners Union)
80,O00; and Kaiin Kumiai (All-Japan Seamen's Union)
120,000. It will bo noted thet some of these large in-
dependent unions are supplying the leadership in forming
the new lahor group previously mentioned.
4.
Government Workers (Zen-Kan)
. 2;115,000
This group includes the Teachers' Fedaration of 500,C00
and national and prefeotural government employees.
UNION POL IC IES AND OPERAT IONS
The development of undesirable trends had been noted in the labor
movement, particularly among some of the large national unions. Many
officers of looal unions, national unions and federations, were being
paid by management. Also the unions often inoluded high ranking manege-
ment personnel within thoir membership as top union officials. Decisions
were made by governing bodies of tho unions and not by the rank and file
membership. These trends endangered the developmont of a free trade union
movement and tended to establish a hiererchy within the movement with
management and politioal el omonts at the top. They threatened to restrain
or prevent the freo interplay of economic foroes. The educational program
of ESS/LAB and the new legislation were designed to counteract these
dangerous trends. The revised laws, offective from 10 June 1949, though
not compelling, influence labor unions to pay their own operational
expenses; to exolude managerial personnel as mombers; to adopt consti-
tutions granting to the rank and file full demooratic powers to elect
officers, to sanotion and ratify collective bargaining, authorize strike
aotion and to make other important decisions. Since the application of
the laws and the promulgation of an enforcement and educational program,
these new conoopts have come to be generally accepted and most major
unions have undertaken to comply with the provisions of the new laws

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.99)
Japanese unions generally havo been sparing In their use of strikes,
Their strikes have been usually of short duration and often, as in the
ooal fields, the unions have authorized work on holidays, or days off, to
compensate for production lost during strikes or members have worked
harder during regular hours to meet quotas. Their strike tactios have
been extremely varied. Dispute tectics which have been called strikes
have often been only partial strikes. A oase in point is the recent
dispute within the pyrite mines. The transportation workers in these
mines either stopped work or took other jobs in the mine, but all other
workers, inoluding the diggers, continued to produce. Wherever any
dispute taotics actually threatened to stop the operation of vital indus-
tries, the unions have almost without exoeption willingly supplied
materials necessary to prevent a shutdown.. This has beon true even of
unions presumed to be Communist-controlled or strongly influenced.
A tactic called "production control," which had been generally
accopted as a proper dispute tactic, especially by the extrome leftists,
has now fallen largely into disuso and disrepute. By this tactic the
union took over management and operation of the plant. The fact that all
personnel excopt a few of the top management, and in some oases only the
plant manager himself, wero members of the union facilitated this proeedure.
Produotion control had even boon legalized in'some labor agreements, and
its legality had beon substantiated by certain court decisions. Within the
past six months, however, the trend has been in the opposite direotion.
Courts have ruled against production control in several important decisions
and in the case of the Kamo Plant of the Tokyo Shibaura Company, authorized
the use of police power to enforce court ordors against production control.
Within recent months the unions have even been reluctant to use their
limited strike weapons. Though Japanese lebor in general has heen opposed
to the stringent measures inherent in the application of the Economio
Stabilization Program and the 1949 Budget, it has in general adapted
itself to the new policies and the new oonditions. The coal miners in
effeot have accepted a 20% wage reduction except in a few of the more
prosperous companies, without strike, and have acquiesced to a system of
arbitration -- the first major labor union to adopt it in Japan. Othor
unions such as the metal miners have reconoiled themselves to even greater
reductions in their standards of living.
Labor has also generally reconciled itself to the "rationalization"
of both governmental and private industry. Rationalization has entailed
considerable reduction in personnel in such industries as government
railways, communications, steel, and electrical equipment manufacturing
whioh suffered losses in produotion as a result of curtailment in the
railroad and communioations budgets. The unions have, of courso, protested
against dismissals and in tho case of the governmont railways and the
Hiroshima Plant of the Nippon Steel, under Communist leadership resorted
to strikes acoompanied by acts of violence. The strike of the govornment
railway workers on several lines in tho Tokyo-Yokohama District was given
impetus by the Law for the Fixed Number of Personnel in tho Administrative
Organizations, whioh was passed in the closing hours of the rocent Diet
session, denying to the Railway Workers Union the right to collective
bargaining whioh had been spocifically guaranteed in Article 8 of the
Public Corporation Labor Relations Law. The Publio Corporation Labor
Relations Law had been passed earlier, hed been concurred in by ESs/LAB
and resulted in the violent strikes which followed, temporarily inoreasing
tho influence of the Communists and eliciting much popular support for
thoir cause. This increased prestigo and power of tho Communists in the
labor movement began to wane, however, on 19 June when the Aoting Chief of
the Labor Division ordered the strike oalled off. Sinee that time the a
attempts of the Communists to revive strikes in the railways, steel and the
communication fields, except for minor incidents, have met with failure
and the dismissal of surplus workers, both in government and private
industry, is proceeding with a minimim of disturbanee.

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.99)
PROGRAM DEVELOPMENTS
Muoh remains to be done in the fields of collective bargaining and
union organization. Many basic industries do not have collective bargain-
ing agreements that completely cover all points on wages, hours and work-
ing conditions and ESs LAB is now working to install complete contracts
regulating all phases of labor relations in suoh basic industries as mining.
maritime, steel, metal manufeoturing, eleotrical power and manufacturing,
textiles, barbor, publishing and printing, chemicals, construction, trans-
portation and in such professions as teaohing, press and radio, and motion
pictures. Both Japanese labor and management, undoubtedly beoause of their
feudalistic baokground, at the present time are prone to intermingle the
management of the business with the operation of union and vice versa.
There is still misunderstanding of the proper funotions of negotiation
committees, grievance committees, and labor-management counoils. There is
also a reluotance to accept the principle of arbitration or contractual
guarantees against strikes or lookouts. The neoessity of industry to
rationalize has resulted in a management trend to insist upon so-called
management prerogatives.
The danger that the Government will dominate the labor movement is
ever present in Japan. An indication of this is the recent action of the
Cabinet and the National Personnel Authority in daclaring that only
employees-on-tho-job could be members or officers or the Communications
Workers Unions or other unions in the Goverrment service.  This restriotion
on union membership and office-hol ding is written into the Public Corpora-
tion Labor Relations Low in regard to the unions in the national railways
and the Government monopolies. It was recently appliod in the dismissals
of surplus personnol in the railways. This provided a convenient expedient
for eliminating the Communists from positions of union leadership, and as
the anti-Communist factions of the Government Railwey Workers Union have
adopted a policy of compliance with rogularly enacted laws, these moderate
elements have not taken an aggressive stand in opposition to the provision
order of the Cabinet and National Personnel Authority. They announce,
however, that the new organization now being formed, representing the
largest and most important labor unions in Japan, will make this one of its
focal points of attack and will insist that the determination of qualifica-
tions for union mambership and cfficers be e right of the union, as it is
in the Westorn democracies.
It is the opinion of the Labor Division that the froe trade union
movement in Japan is at this moment in equal danger from both the extreme
right and the extreme left. It is the aim and purpose of the Labor Division
to guide the movemont away from both extremes and down a middle path through
encouragement of more active renk and file participation in union affairs.
If this objective is accomplished, the Japanese trade union movement may in
the future constitute the principal bulwark against the exploitation of
workers, the oppression of the masses and the rovivel of militaristic forces
in Japan.
EMPLOYMENT AND UNEMPLOYMENT SITUATION
There is as yot no ovidonco of large scale unemployment in Japan
resulting from implementation of the Economic Stabilization Program in
the period ending June 1949. The Monthly Labor Force Survey prepared by
the Cebinet Buroau of Statistics for May shows only 440,000 unemployed of
a total work force of 36,300,000. In addition, it should be noted that
small proprietors and family workers make up two-thirds of the employed
population in Japan and numbered 23.9 million in May out of a total employ-
ment of 36.3 million; whereas paid omployees, i.e., wage and salary workers,
numbered only 12.4 million in the same month. Whereas, in the United States
a low figure for total unemployed persons is a reliable indicator of
prospority, in Japan there is a strong tendenoy to spread available work
among the total labor force. Thus the employment situetion in time of
economic stress is more apt to result in unmet economio need in terms of
family income and the "dilution" of employmont, rather than in unemployment.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
In spite of.this general tendenoy, unless private enterprises, par-
tioularly the.export industries, deverop an expanding labor demand to
provide an. absorptive cushion, an increase in umemployment among the paid
employee group of the work force which may-assume serious proportions in
the noxt few months, is indigated by the following labor market faators:
1. A small but steady rise in the excess of employment separations
. over accessions, exclusive of the temporary impaot of April school graduates
on the labor force, contributal to non-replecemént attritions. These
excesses of separations totaled 9,300 in February, 20,000 in March and
27,000 in May in industrial establishments employing over 3& million workers.
2. A rise in layoffs due to employers' inability to operate economically,
as reported to employment exchanges,was from 218 plants laying off 7 500-workers
in February to 680 plants laying off 32,000 in June. This does not rerleot
current personnel reductions in Government enterprises and administrative
agencies of 95,000 railway workers plus approximately 100,000 others.
3. An increase in the average weekly number of persons receiving
unemployment insurance benefits rose from 28,700 in'January 1949 to 92,100
in June.
UNEMPLOYMENT COUNTER-MEASURES
The Japanese Government, within the framework of the present.budget,
has a program to provide temporary relief to a minimum number of unemployed
workers based upon the assumption of the transfer of most of these workers
from non-essential to essential industries. This is dependent upon a
continued rise in production, particularly industries for export, in
accordance with original target goals established in the Economic Stabiliza-
tion Program. It is al'so dependent upon the expenditure of Counterpart
Funds for public and private capital investment which will assist in the .
maintenance of present levels of employment for some basic industries and,
to some extent, will oreate an additional demand for approximately 100,000
workers.
In the event Japanese economy entors a serious deflationary period,
unlikely unless exports remain at a low level, the government unemployment
relief program can be expanded oonsiderably to prevent idleness of unemployed
workers for long periods of time still within the framework- of the present
budget if additional funds are found for the Emergency Work Relief Programs.
a progrem somewhat comparable to WPA in the United States. If unemployment
of large numbers continues for over 1& months, substantial additional
measures would be necossary. A brief outline of this Government program is
as follows:
1. On 20 May 1949, the Diet passed an Emergenoy Work Relief Law
providing for the establishment of economically useful projects for the
purpose of absorbing unemployed, such projects to be placed in operation
only after appreciable unemployment develops in specific local areas.
These profeots would be discontinued as soon as workers could be trans-
ferred to regular employment, and as an inducement for transferringa the
law provides for lower wages than for comparable work. The small sum of
¥808,000,000 provided in the budget has been sufficient for this program
to date. Any substantial increaso in the numher of unemployed in the
coming months would require additional funds.
2. Approximately 6,000,000 workers are presently covered by unemploy
ment insurance. By an amendment to the Unemployment. Insurance Law on'20
May 1949, an additional 1,000,000 day workers will be covered after
1 November 1949. The unemployment insurance fund nów has a resérve of
approximately ¥6,000,000,000, sufficient to provide payments for:the full
six months of banefits authorized for some 250,000 to 300,000 individuals;
or an average of three months of benefits for twioe that number.

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.98)
3. The efficienoy of the Japanese Public Employment Security Offioes
(employment exohanges) has inoreased to suoh an extent in the past two
years that they are in a good position to administer the unemployment
counter-measures program effeotively.t There are: 415 exchanges in Japan
which adjust,labor supply and demand-by soliciting job openings and placing
workers to available jobs, are responsible for implementatidn of the work
relief program, pay unemployment insuranoe:to covered workers, provide
payment of traveling expenses'to employees who ahange residence in obtain-
ing new employment, and report information on unamployment.
It should be noted that present long-range public worke or short-term
work relief projects in Japan will only partially or temporarily relieve
the problems oocasioned by unemployment or under-utilization of labor force
skills. The only adequate answer is a healthy economy with inoreasing rates
bf production and greatly expanded export trade.
LABOR STANDARDS LAW
Recently the mafor development in the Labor Standards Bureau has been
in connection with personnel. The 1949-50 budget for the Labor Standards
Bureau (exclusive of fts Workmen's Compensation -Insurance Section) author-
ized an 18% decrease in the number of inspectors and a 30% decrease in all
other Bureau personnel as campared with the 1948-49 budget allocation.
This means a loss of 2,236 positions (301 inspectors and 1,935 other posi-
tions). However, since there were about 1,c00 vaoancies, the actual number
of persons to be dismissed is around 1,200. When the reduction in force id
completed, the staff will consist of 6,237 persons of whom 1,818 will be
inspectors.
The impact of loss of personnel has not as yet been felt sinoe dis-
missals will not be effectuated until the end of August. Reductions so
far as possible will be largely in the Central Bureau and in the prefeotural
offices with the least possible reduotions to be made in the looal inspeo-
tion offices. It is clear that the reduction in staff will necessitate..
more delegation of responsibility to local inspection offices and a review
of office prooedures, employer reporting, etc., with a view to reducing the
amount of paper work in order that the inspection program will not suffer
too drastioally.
From February 1948 through May 1949, 370,000 inspections were made in.
establishments employing approximately 14,000,000 workers.,These figures.
include reinspections. The average number of inspections per month has.
increased markedly since January of this yoar, dve primarily to the emphasis
on inspectione in small and medium sized establishments, the average being
more than 35,000 per month. As already indicated, this number of inspections
may not be continued after the reduction in force takes place in August.
As a result of the transfer of mine safety to the Ministry of Inter-
national Trade and Industry, the Mining Section of the Central :Labor
Standards Bureau and the Mining Sections in the 7 prefectural Labor Standards
offioes in which they were established have been eliminated and their re-?
maining funotions transferred to other sections of the Labor Standards
:4
Organization.
An Apprenticeship Seotion has been established in the Central Labor
Standards Bureau with a small staff of approximately 20 persons. It is k:
hoped that with the establishment of this Section there may be a new
impetus to the development of the apprenticeship program.:
In the past few months, there have been no furthèr pressures for:
rovision of the Labor Standards Law. This may be attributable to the faot
that,the Japanese Government has been completely'absorbed. in the more
pressing problems of unemployment and dismissal of Government employees.
What the Cabinet will propose when it reconvenes is an unknown quality.

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.98)
WAGE STABILIZAT ION
One of the "9-points" in the United States Interim Direotive for
Economic Stabilization was the adoption by the Japanese Government of
effective measures to achieve wage stabilization. Deciding that direot
wage control was both impracticable and unneoessary, the Japanese Govern-
ment adopted, toward the end of l948, a program for indireot control of
wage movements. This program, known as the "three principles," stated
that the government would not grant price incroases, defioit loans or
subsidies (except from available revenue) to any enterprise or industry
for the purpose of increasing wages.
Observation of wage movement for the first six months of 1949 indicates
that these indirect controls have in fact succeeded in decelerating the
upward movement of wages. This pariod has been oharacterized by relatively
small monthly rises and drops in average wages, with a ret inorease of 4i3%
between January and June. This small inorease is in startling oontrast to
the increases of 51%, 76% and 140% during the same poriods (January to June)
respeotively.in 1948, 1947 and 1946. A fact whioh will bear watching
however, is that whereas cost of living fncreased less than half as rapidly
(3)
(20%) as wages (51%) during the comparable period in 1948, living cost rose
almost twice as fast (7.6%) as wages (4 3%) during the first half of 1949.
This decline in real wages is partioularly significant since real wages
(May 1949) were only 69% of pre-war (1937) levols.
NON-PAYMENT OF WAGES
The tightening of financial credits and the curtailment of subsidies.
have oreated a situation where employrs are failing to pay wages in full/
According to incomplote reports of the Labor Standards Buroau, 3,236 cases
involving firms who had failed to pay 1.72 billion yen in wages were handled
by the Buroau during the first half.df 1949. As of 30 June 1949, approximate-
1y ¥745,000 000 was still owing to workers for back wages.
WORKMEN'S ACCIDENT COMPENSATION INSURANCE
A modern Workmen's Compensation system was ostablished for tho first
time in Japan in September 1947 with the passage of the Workers'
Accident Compensation Insurance Law and the Labor Standards Law. The
system is basically similar to that in the United States. Legal obligation
is put on all employers to compensate workers for industrial accidents with
provisions that this liability can be avoided by taking out insurance.
Insurance is compulsory for employers in manufacturing, mining, construction
and other hazardous industries, and is voluntary for employers in commeroe
and other nonhazardous activities. The pramium is paid entirely by the
employer and is variable in accordanoe with the number of aocidents in each
industry. There are 22 different premium rates, from 4.4%, applicable to
subway construction and other oxtra-hazardous activities, to O l5% for banks
and nonhazardous activities. The Japanese system differs from that prevail-
ing in many states in that employers in the qompulsory category must take
out the insurance offered by the government. In the voluntary category,
employers may choose between government operated insuranoe or insuranoe
offered by private carriers.
Workers are entitled to the full cost of medical care glus 60% of
wages during disability. A sum amounting to approximately three years'
wages is paid in death cases. and smaller amounts for permanent disability.
Administration of the program is in the hands of the Labor Standards Bureau.
of the Labor Ministry, whioh agency is also responsible for safety and
sanitation provisions. The administrative efficienoy has improved steadily
sinoe the inoeption of the program and is now relatively very high. There
are 235,000 employers covered and 6,500,000 workers. As an index of the
extent of benefits paid to covered workers, the figures for the month of
June 1949 show benefits amount ing to 250,000,000 yen were paid to 50,000
workers and to the surviving families of workers killed in industrial
acoidents.
9

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
The 1949-50 budget provides for a total of 2,356 persons to adminis-
ter the program representing an inorease of 206 persons over the previous
year.
At the present time a Bill is in preparation to transfer rasponsibil-
ity of administration of Workmen's Aocident Insurance for goverment
workers to the Labor Ministry to be coordinated with the program for
private industry.
WOMEN'S AND MINOR'S BUREAU
The Women's andoMinor's Bureau's work will be seriously handicapped
during tho 1949-50 fiscal year by a 30% reduotion in personnel, represent-
ing a loss of 74 positiona. The present budget provides for a tōtal of
174 positions, of which 70 are in the central office and l40 are fn the
field, which includes a local office in each of the 46 prefeotures. (The
1948-49 budget provided for a total of 248 positions.) This means that
from 2 to 3 persons. will be assigned to each of the prefectures. The.
difficulties of carrying on a ma'jor program in the field of women and
children with such a small staff are obvious.
One of the gratifying developments in the field of improving the
economic and social status of working women was the enthusiasm with which
women of all walks of lifo participated in the "Promotion of the Welfare
of Women Workers' Week" held between 1 August and 7 August of this year.
This enthusiasm was not confined to the women only but was evidenced in
newspaper editorials, radio oommentaries and other souroes.
GENERAL CONCLUSIONS
With the oompletion of four years of Oocupation and the emancipation:
of the labor movement, it is fair to say that the obfeotives originally
sot forth in regard to the development of a sound and demooratio labor
mopement have achieved a large measure of success.  Umion structure and.
organization have developed to a point where national industrial unions.
and national federations speak for the thousapds of looals and their
members on national economic and social policy matters Internal struggres
for union control between the extremist and moderate.factions are in part?
a consequenoe of factors outside the Japanese political and economio
structure. Vigorous eduoation programs and the obviously unrepresentative
character of extremist leadership and programs in regard to the native
labor movement have tended to minimize the influence of this leadership
The issues involved and the conduot of labor disputes are gradually moving
toward gonformity with the established concepts and.practices which have
been associated with Western labor Lovements. Political issues'as a
faotor in labor disputes have to some extent given way to the fundamental
eoonomic relationahips between management and labor.
Modified labor relations legislation reflecting the experienoe of the
post-war yoars plus the increased effectiveness of the administrative and
judicial organs established to oarry them out are becoming increasingly.
important factors in labor relations. Labor Reletions Committees continue
to be an increasingly constructive force in the melioration of labor
disputes. The courts are establishing prtoedents in regard to the inter-
pretation of these laws in such a manner as to define the legal responsi-
bilities of both labor and managemont in hitherto unchartered areas of
labor relations thoreby setting the boundaries within which legitimate
econamic issues can be negotiated.

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
RESTRICTED
TO : NA - Mr. Al118on
DATE: October 11,1
FROM : NA - Mr. drenAM
disp
SUBJECT:
Tokyo's E50f September 19, 1949
DCR
Brad Coolidge summarizes and encloses a fairly frank
and ccmprehensive "Summary of the Current Labor Situation"
prepared by SCAp's Labor Division as part of Under Secretary
Voorheea' general briefing. Coolidge' summary of the
report is well worth reading. Note the concern he has
expressed on other occasions lest a youthful labor force,
facing urcmployment, succumb to the domination of management
or to the overtures of the Communiats.
F
04
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
RESTRICTED

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.95)
Offine of
PAR EARTOAN AFFAIRO
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: O0tober 26, 1949
SUBJECT:
Labor and Land Reforme in Japan
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. Tokutaro Kitamura, Member of Parliament for Hiroshima,
former Miniater of Finance, and now Secretary General
of the Democratic Party
Mr. Setsuo Yamada, Member of Parliament for Nagasaki, and
Chairman of the Labor Committee of the Upper House
Mr. Allison, NA
894.504/10
COPIES TO:
Mr. Sullivan, FE
Mr. Green, NA
3×R
FE
NA
E
DRF
S/P
POLAD, Tokyo
In the couree of a courtesy call by Mr. Kitamura and Mr. Yamada
who are returning to Japan from the Moral Rearmament Conference in
2
Geneva, the conversation turned briefly to the Japanese labor and
96
land reforms.
49
It was Mr. Yamada's view that the basic labor legislation
enacted under the ocoupation would not be compromised in the post-
treaty period, despite a present need for greater preciseness in
some sections of the laws. Although welcoming the recent discharge
of many Communist union leaders in connection with the retrenchment
program, Mr. Yamada expressed apprehension lest this create a pre-
cedent for the elimination of other, non-Communist union leaders.
Widespread victimization of union leaders would, he warned, cause
a resurge of a Communist influence in the trade union movement. Mr.
Yamada regarded the labor provisions of the National Public Service
legislation as imposing necessary restrictions on the political
activities of government unions, many of which had been Communist-led.
Asked if the political restrictions placed on teachers under the
National Public Service legislation might not be excessively restric-
8
tive in view of the intellectual leaderehip of teachers, partioularly
6
in rural communities, Mr. Yamada replied that thie might be a lose,
14.504
but that many teachers "needed restraining influence because of
their Communist leanings".
C
F'ILED
T
Pfm
Mr.
C
21949
S
228555
H

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.96)
一 2 -
Mr. Yamada saw reason to hope that half of the almost
seven million organized workers in Japan would soon be affiliated
with a new ant1-Communist labor federation and that this federa-
tion would become a principle prop of the Socialist Party. In
that event, he thought, about 500,000 organized workers would
join in a federation supporting the Communist Party.
Speaking as one whose father had lost 9/loths of his
land under the reforms, Mr. Yamada admitted a tendency to be
oritioal of the land reforms. He said that many small land-
owners today would prefer reverting to a status of tenanoy
because of their inability to cope with high taxes, rising
prices, and the need to purchase equipment formerly loaned
by the landowners. Mr. Kitamura observed that his party's
(the Demoorate) anawer to this problem is to encourage small
farmers to join in cooperatives; indeed, he felt that a good
deal of progress is being made in this direction. Mr. Kitamura
did not believe that any appreciable number of small landowners
sided with the Communists in advocating state ownership of lands.
MG
FE:NA:MGreen:clh

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.95)
Novembéf 16, 1949
In reply refer to
NA
RESTHICTED
MEMORAND M FCR THE UNITED STATEB MEMBER,
FA EASTERN COMMISSION
With reference to the statement of the UssR member on
Uctober 7, 1949, regerding labor pol1oy in Jepan, the
United Statee member 1s authorized, et his disoretion,
either to make or to have ciroulated the following re ly
8
to the other members of the Commission:
6
4
"At the meeting of the Commiselon on October 27 the
Soviet member reitersted hie allegntions that the labor
5
polioy which is being carried out by the United States
0
occupetion authoritiee :nd the Jasenese Government 1s
4
in contradiction to the otedam Deoleration end. the
pOlicy decisione of the Far Eastern Commission.
"I feel th:t I h ve alresay rebutted these oherges of
the Soviet member in my st: tement on July 14, 1949, whioh
has been c1rculated s FEC 318/25.
9
4
"However, the Soviet member makes two further sllega-
6
t1 ne in his recent strtem nt. While it is not my
intention to mrke : orcctice of ensverin: cherges of this
nrture, I would like to cali the a tention of the Com-
J
mission to th following infornetion:
"First, the Soviet member cuarges 'that by means of
mass diech:rges of workers, the Jepanese authorities are
removing from enter rises or inetitutions first of ell
leaders and sctive membere of trade unions.' In imple-
mentat1 n of the economie stebilizati n program which
ctlls for the rationelization of government employment
C
in the interest of efficiency and economy, the Jap nese
Diet paeeed a law which ests lished ceilings on the totel
7
H
personnel strength f the Jepanese governmental agenoies.
Thoce ceilings re uired & reduotion of pome 0 per cent
overall, resultin, in the releese during the summer
C
monthe of about l0 per cent of the personnel actuelly on
(S
the regular government yroll. In executing this
工
program,
力
6
RESTRICTED

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
- 2 -
program, fadors suoh as employee's seniority, work record,
effiolency, attendance and attitude toward his Job were
considered and weighed. Some of these persons may have
been active union members, but that certainly was not
the criterion for discharge.
"Secondly, the Soviet member stated that 'on September 17
the Japanese Governmeht published a new decision according
to whioh the workers of government and publio utility
enterprises and institutions are prohibited from engaging
in political activities.' As I understand it no 'new
decision' 1s involved at all. I arsume that the Soviet
member is referring to a rule, issued by the National
Pereonnel Authority in September, whioh applles only
to government workers and not to workers in publio
utility enterprises. Thie rule merely implements the
provision uf the National Publio Service Law as enacted
in 1947 and amended in 1948 whioh states that 'personnel
shall not solicit nor receive, nor be in any matter
concerned in solioiting or receiving, any subsoription
or other benefit for any political party of political
purposes or engage in any political activity as defined
by the rulee of the Authority other than to exerciee
the right to vote.
John M. Allison
Director
Office of Northeast Asian Affairs
ae1
RESTRICTED
FE:NA:ALDunning:pm:clh
11/16/49
