894.858 Merchant Vessels. Yachts. Immunities Of Government -Controlled., Japan, Offense Committed On Merchant Vessels., April 13, 1935 (File 856)
ID: 894.858-856   Pages: 2   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.858-merchant-vessels-yachts-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 13, 1935.

CONVERSATION.

Mr. Shun-ichiro Kawahara,
Third Secretary, Japanese Embassy.

Mr. Dooman.

Subject: Murder Committed on the Japanese Steamship RASHIN MARU while on the high seas.

Mr. Kawahara stated that the Japanese Embassy had received a telegram from the Consul General at Honolulu reporting that a Chinese seaman on the RASHIN MARU had killed another Chinese seaman while the vessel was approximately ten miles from Hawaii and, therefore, on the high seas: that upon arrival at Honolulu the Master of the vessel had reported the matter to the Japanese Consulate General, who in turn requested that the local authorities take over custody until he could be deported to Japan by the Consul General, and that the United States District Attorney had declined to permit the departure of the vessel until instructions had been received from the Department of Justice in regard to the disposition which should be made of the case.

Mr. Kawahara asked whether the Department could ascertain whether instructions had been sent by the Department of Justice to the United States District Attorney at Honolulu.

I

894.858/1
894.858/1
811a.0145
A
FILED
MAY 10 1935

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -

I telephoned to Mr. Ramsay, of the Criminal Division, Department of Justice. Mr. Ramsay stated that the Department of Justice had yesterday telegraphed the District Attorney to the effect that there appeared to have been no violation of any Federal law; that the question whether there had been any violation of Hawaiian territorial laws should be determined by the territorial authorities; and that the Master of the vessel could take over custody of the person accused at any time.

I asked Mr. Ramsay whether there would be any objection by the Department of Justice to the man being held in custody until such time as he could be returned to Japan for trial. Mr. Ramsay stated that the telegram of the Department of Justice to the United States District Attorney did not touch upon that matter, as it was not one of concern to the Federal Government.

I informed Mr. Kawahara of the substance of my conversation with Mr. Ramsay, and Mr. Kawahara expressed appreciation for the action taken by the Department of Justice.

EHD/DLY
mm.m.H.
